

“THE HOMELAND IN PICTURE AND STORY”
Fifty-two of the illustrations and descriptions which have appeared on this page during
the past twelve months are now available. Write for your free copy to the nearest branch
of B. Seppelt & Sons Ltd., and please mark your envelope:—
“MONUMENTS”
Available from any Australian Office of the House of Seppelt
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE; Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233 E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE: Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE: Box 64, P.O.
CRYSTAL ST.. BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E. 0.4.
The Bulletin
MONTEBELLO LOST TREASURE
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 73-No. 3798
Wednesday, November 26, 1952
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
BIRTHPLACE OF WINSTON CHURCHILL, BLENHEIM PALACE
A NATION’S tribute to one of her greatest soldiers is seen in Blenheim
Palace, which was built for General John Churchill, Duke of Marlborough,
as a reward for his victory over the French and Bavarians at Blenheim in
1704. He was granted, during the reign of Queen Anne (1702-1714), a quarter
of a million pounds with which to build for himself and his heirs the finest
private palace in England. This great edifice, near Woodstock in Oxfordshire,
stands in a vast parkland of 2700 acres, in which there is an artificial lake, a
column of victory commemorating the great duke and trees which were planted
in groups to form a plan of the Battle of Blenheim. At this battle the
French and Bavarians lost over 30,000 troops, while the allied English and
Austrians lost only 12,000.
The building of Blenheim Palace in the classical style began in 1705, to
the designs of John Vanbrugh, the famous architect-dramatist, and was
completed twenty years later by Hawksmoore. Vanbrugh built other great
houses in England, all conceived on a scale of lavish magnificence, but none
to equal Blenheim. When he died the following epitaph was placed over the
tomb of this ponderous architect:—
Lie heavy on him, Earth, for he
Laid many a heavy load on thee.
His skill is amply proclaimed by the grandeur of Blenheim Palace, the
front of which is 348 feet in length. The vast central block with flanking
courtyards was arranged to convey the greatest possible sense of size. The
interior is no less magnificent, with its series of splendid state apartments
where the walls are hung with crimson silk damask, others with rich tapestries
and still others with great paintings by Rubens, Tintoretto, Velazquez, Frans
Hals, Van Dyck, to name but a few of the better known. In the State
Dining Room, which is 60 feet high, the lower walls are of inlaid marble
and the walls and ceiling above are painted with battle scenes and heroics,
and the table is laid with its Victorian gold plate, as if for a banquet.
Blenheim was the scene of many state visits—of great banquets, balls and
Royal shooting parties; it has now been opened to the -public on certain
days of the week by John Spencer-Churchill, tenth Duke of Marlborough.
It was at Blenheim Palace that Mr. Winston Churchill was born on November
30, 1874,


mm
writing 1
at HOME
Write now for Free Illustrated HAND-
WRITING PROSPECTUS explaining
fully Stott’s Muscular-Movement System
of teaching Handwriting.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Knsseli Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CUT HERE AND MAII\
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and
without obligation, your illustrated Hand-
Writing Prospectus.
My Name
Address
(5.8.552) Age
"VALIANT OCCASIONS"
One of the qualities this reviewer has
always admired in J. E. Macdonnell’s
naval articles in The Bulletin, now pub-
lished by Constables of London in book-
form under the title Valiant Occasions,
is his ability to clarify and dramatise the
ferocious and complicated mass of
machinery that bangs, dances and whirls
about in those recesses of a warship
normally kept decently hidden from a
layman’s eye. Anyone who hates
machinery as much as this reviewer does,
having reservations even about Kipling’s
“M’Andrew’s Hymn,” and is lured by
“Macnell” into reading about it with
pleasure, must recognise a distinct achieve-
ment. Here, for instance, is the shell
that sank the Hood:
Twelve miles across the tumbling sea the
huge shell in its cradle came screaming up
the hoist from Bismarck’s shell-room, the
great gun drew back in recoil, like a waking
animal, from the preceding broadside, there
was a “whoosh” of compressed air blow-
ing out burning debris as the breech
opened, the powerful rammer drove ifa the
shell, the breech slammed, the elevation-
pointer traversed its dial, a trigger was
squeezed, the huge breech recoiled and
hurled the projectile which half a minute
later was to sink a battle-cruiser worth
millions, doom 1500 men, make widows of
half as many women and render fatherless
a host of children.
The shell plunged from the clouds, and
its armor-capped nose struck Hood’s upper
deck between the funnel and mainmast. In
that fraction of time a tiny needle in its
base was shocked forward over the retard-
i»*s effect of its spring and pierced the
detonator waiting beneath it. The
detonator blew, a fuse burned, and in the
thousandth of a second the shell took to
bore its way into Hood’s magazine the
flame reached the shell’s disruptive charge.
Hundreds of tons of cordite and hundreds
of shells in the room beside it released their
frightful energy in an instantaneous blast
that burst the huge ship open to the sea.
A vast writhing smoke-pall shot with red
flame mounted to the echoing sky, and the
thunder of the explosion crashed across
the sea. When its reverberations beat away
to silence, the water under the tombstone
of smoke was empty.
Obviously there is something more than
mere technical knowledge here, to turn
this description of mechanics into prose
so vivid and dramatic. There is, in fact
—and the more one reads the book the
more this quality becomes apparent
enthusiasm.
Oddly enough, Macdonnell doesn’t
seem to care very deeply for the sea in
itself. The ocean is certainly present
in the book, sometimes very effectively—
At high speed she was shipping them
green, acres of water roaring over the
fo’c’sle, breaking at “A” gun and the
breakwater into sheets of spray which swept
the bridge with the effect of a cloudburst —
but it is not omnipresent as it is in
Conrad,'an element of poetry and vision
encompassing the whole existence of the
ships and men who move across it; not
only their great antagonist and arbiter
of their destiny but living beyond them
in its own right and power, like a shape
and symbol of eternity. It is only in
direct factual relation to ships and men
than the sea seems to interest Mac-
donnell ; and it is to ships and men that
he brings that quality of Enthusiasm
which, combined with his technical know-
ledge, gives his book its dramatic force,
a genuine literary value beyond what
might be expected in a set of journalistic
articles about the great naval actions,
chiefly British and Australian, of World
War 11.
What Macdonnell likes to write about
is ships and men ; in particular, warships
and naval men ; in particular again, war-
ships and naval men at the peak of their
existence in desperate and heroic combat
against overwhelming odds. And be-
cause of this combination of enthusiasm
and knowledge, amounting at its highest
to dramatic imagination, he can visualise
sea-battles on the grand scale as clearly
as he can dramatise machinery, he por-
trays his principal actors —such fighting
leaders as Admiral Sir John Collins or
“Hard-over-Hec” Captain Waller of the
Stuart and the Perth —as memorably as
characters in fiction, and he presents his
scenes so vividly that it is almost im-
possible to believe he did not himself
experience them. The Sydney, stumbling
against the guns of the German raider
Kormoran—the two ships still fighting
madly on the water as they burned and
sank—-goes down before the reader’s
eyes; the Repulse and the Prince of Wales
twist and shudder with the repeated
hammer-blows of Japanese torpedoes ; the
Bismarck is hounded to her gallant death ;
the Graf Spee ignobly scuttles herself off
Montevideo and her commander (whose
secret messages to Raeder, obtained by
Macdonnell from the Admiralty, add to
the painful interest of the story) commits
a suicide which did less than he hoped
to redeem the sorry episode; the Exeter
goes to her doom at the end of the Java
Sea battle in the narrow strait where
superior Japanese forces swarm like
sharks . . . all the great stories, worth
reading again even if one already knows
them—and there are so many details one
had forgotten or, often, never learned —
are brought brilliantly to life.
The book reaches its peak—if it is not
in the story of Fogarty Fegen turning
the Jervis Bay, in defence of the convoy
she was guarding, to certain destruction
against the guns of the Admiral Scheer —
in one of the articles added to those that
were first printed in The Bulletin; the
superb and nightmarish drama of the
destroyer Glowworm under Lieut.-Com-
mander Roope, who, having lost contact
with the Renown and her other attendant
destroyers in the North Sea when he
stopped to pick up a man washed over-
board in the stormy night, found himself
fighting alone against two German
destroyers and the cruiser Hipper and,
when the Glowworm was just about
blasted to pieces, rammed the cruiser
and so sank, and so drowned; to re-
ceive a posthumous V.C. That one story
says everything the whole book tries to
convey about the fighting spirit of the
British Navy.
Some of the articles from The Bulletin
should have been expanded for book-
publication : there is no reason to say,
in a book, that there isn’t space to deal
with the individual dramas involved with
the sinking of the Repulse and the Prince
of Wales. Some faults of style also be-
come moticeabie: a repetition of adjec-
tives (almost every destroyer has “paper-
thin” sides), and too much use—for com-
pactness—of a hyphenated, truncated and
sometimes ungrammatical journalese
(“Without tradition its Fleets would be
chocolate-soldier calibre”). English prose
has also its tradition. But on the whole
the stories gather a cumulative force from
being put together as a book, and there
is too much vivid and powerful writing
for small points of style to matter.
The Carrolup Boys
The Red Page
Most Australians today know the story
of Rex Battarbee and Namatjira: the
origin and development of the famous
art-movement among the aborigines at
Hermannsburg Mission. The story of
Noel White and the aboriginal boys at
Carrolup whose paintings astonished some
of the London critics in 1950 has had
less publicity but is no less remarkable ;
and Mary Durack Miller, in association
with Florence Rutter, has told it clearly
and compactly in Child Artists of fhe
Australian Bush (Australasian Publishing
Co.).
The first question that arises in a story
of this sort, where so much sentiment is
likely to creep in, is: were the pictures
drawn or painted by Mr. White’s half-
dozen outstanding pupils really very
good? Here is the testimony from
London; —
Paper after paper took up the story of
Carrolup. “The Times Educational Supple-
ment,” the “Daily Express,” the “Daily
Graphic,” the ({‘lllustrated London News,”
the “Teacher’s ’ World,” “Studio” and a
score of other publications reproduced pic-
tures with descriptions and speculative
articles. “Little Black Fingers Create Sen-
sation!”; “Is This Mediumship?”; “Easy-
money Racket or Real Art?”; “Children’s
Art Thrills London”; “Scribbling by Nature
Boys Startles London Artists”; “Is This
Primitive Art?”; “Can Your Child Draw
Like This?” —these are only a few of the
headlines chosen at random.
Daily newspapers, of course, will make
a sensation out of any novelty, and the
sillier art is the more likely it is these
days to make its brief splash in the head-
lines. But 27 of the Carrolup paintings,
some in color, some in monochrome, are
reproduced in this volume; and there is
no doubt about their quality—their quite
outstanding quality as children’s work.
Mostly about grass-trees in sunset-colored
landscapes, with kangaroos bouncing
away from aboriginal hunters, they are
all very lively and colorful stuff, sensitive
and surprisingly well-drawn.
Carrolup is 20 miles from Katanning
in Westralia, and Katanning is 175 miles
from Perth. The native reserve was a
dump for outcast aborigines—descendants
of the Bibbulmun people of the fertile
south-western triangle of the State—who
were too much of a problem for other
reserves to handle: “There were sent the
worst cases of congenital disease, the in-
corrigibles and inebriates, the incurable
hospital cases. They were swept from
missions and other Government reserves,
from squalid camps and railway-sidings,
where they were a menace to the health
and morals of country communities.”
This was the condition of the'teacher’s
house —the teacher’s house —as recently
as 1945 when Mr. and Mrs. White went
to replace a woman teacher who had
found the settlement school beyond her
strength to cope, with: —-
A rickety iron shack —an oven in
summer, cheerless and draughty in winter.
There was little furniture —a packing-case
for a table, boxes for chairs. There was
neither bathroom nor laundry. The
“kitchen” was a small stove in the open.
Water was scarce, and at best brackish,
and the only light supplied by the Depart-
ment was one hurricane lantern.
Among the barbarities practised upon
the half-wild children, some of them up
to 14 years old, was a five-o’clock curfew ;
which also, incredibly, was imposed on
the adults; “Every evening at five,
winter and summer, they were drafted
into dingy, stone dormitories, where they
cursed and fought and battered at the
doors. They crowed like fowls and sang
‘The Prisoner’s Song.’ They slept in filth,
inadequately covered in winter, stifling
hot in summer.”
Encouraged by the Education Depart-
ment’s district inspector, Mr. Crabbe, Mr.
White set out to win the children over
by feeding them apples and oranges and
persuading them that school could be
pleasant. He got them to sing, to dance
—and to draw. First they did “scribble
patterns,” then he would take them for
walks through the bush and, on the fol-
lowing day, they would paint from
memory what they had seen on their
rambles. He gave them very little actual
tuition in painting; they were not forced
into imitation aboriginal art, nor were
they forced to copy the nonsensical stuff
that passes for “child-art” among most
contemporary theorists. They were
simply encouraged to observe Nature and,
having the talent that is not uncommon
among children anywhere but is seldom
let out of the classroom into the delight
of bush-rambles, they drew keenly and
sensitively from their observation and so,
in a small way, astonished the world.
Perhaps Mr. White’s greatest triumph was
the evening when, after: he had had the
curfew abolished, the boys came to him
and asked him to “Show us a light, sir,
please. We fellas like to make some
pictures like in school.”
Mrs. Florence Rutter, an American
philanthropist, discovered the boys’ art
and publicised it in Australia and abroad.
A Carroiup pupil won a State-wide
children’s painting competition. The
school also began to do well in athletics
and the boys astonished Perth with their
prowess at football as well as with the
exhibition of their paintings.
Then for some obscure reason the
school was closed. Mr. White was trans-
ferred elsewhere; and, after a gap of
some months, the school was reopened as
the Marribank Farm School—“the object
of the Department is to provide rural and
technical training facilities for young
men and boys. The farm covers about
5000 acres and about 20 boys are now
resident there.” Three of Mr. White’s
star pupils, for whom jobs were found in
Perth—two as office-boys and one as an
apprentice to a Departmental house-
painter—soon drifted back to the bush.
Mary Durack Miller’s book is at once
a moving little story, an important docu-
ment for those concerned with aboriginal
welfare, and a very well-balanced critique
not only of art among the aborigines but
of child-art in general.
Pleasures of New York
The Pleasure Was All Mine, The
Journal of a Disappointed Man by Fred
Schwed, Jr. (Dymock’s), is an autobio-
graphy full of nostalgia for the times
preceding the First World War and for
the wild 1920’s in New York and en-
virons.
It may or may not be completely trust-
worthy, for Schwed, Jr., is a humorist;
nevertheless the picture of New York,
where his father, he says, was a kerb-
stone broker, takes one back to the happy
and less-controlled days of Sewell Ford’s
“Torchy” ; and the stories of his own
escape from the home into the cocktail-
party ’twenties, with the girls whose waist-
line began near their knees, the ukuleles,
the midnight journeys in rumble-seats.
the bridge-parties—it is a terrible thought
that those times are becoming historic!
One can especially recommend the
chapter, “The Talk of the Town,” in
which Mr. Schwed, Jr., brings Swift’s
essay on polite conversation up-to-date.
It is a compendium of bores and cliches:
“Oh, brother!” her husband now feels
called upon to recite. “I’ll tell the
cockeyed world. The way I could go for
a steak is nobody’s business. My stomach
thinks my throat has been cut —and how I”
Everyone smiles bravely, if stiffly. Of
the six comical cliches employed in the
construction of that hit of gaiety only one
was funny when it was first conceived.
Smalltown Saga
Rex Ingamells’s novel Of Us Now
Living (Hallcraft) might best be described
as an anatomy of the growth of a small
Australian town. He calls the place
Quongdong, and locates it somewhere
outback in South Australia.
The problems it examines are, foi
example, how did Chinaman’s Well, in
the modern town of Quongdong, get its
name? ; and near the end of the novel,
having followed in brief glimpses the
fortunes of Jimmy Ah Lee since first the
man from China came to try his luck on
the Victorian goldfields and was picked
up nearly dead on the roadside, shot in
the stomach by bushrangers, we learn
that Chinaman’s Well commemorates the
spot where Jimmy was drowned while
trying to save a pioneer’s child from a
flood in Quongdong Creek.
Again, from what far places and out
of what strange history did the present
inhabitants of the town, the Eastleys, the
Saundersons, Charlie Bellamy the nar-
rator of the novel, Biddy Lee the pin-up
girl and so on, come to Quongdong?
To find the answer we go back to the
convict days in Sydney, where a Bellamy
and a Sencrieux, emancipists, were in
partnership as merchants; and where
Edward Eastley, a portrait-painter and son
of a bushranger, ran off with the lovely
wife of Tony Gordon, a remittance-man,
after Tony had married her out of the
female factory at Parramatta.
All this, if it takes one back into the
familiar and perhaps overworked territory
of the historical saga-novel, is interesting
and colorful material; and the focus
upon a small South Australian town
instead of early Sydney or early Tas-
mania may be accounted a new approach
to the saga-novel. But it must be said
that the material is so inexpertly handled
that Of Us Now Living is very difficult
reading.
Where it moves into the present it
suffers from the common disadvantage of
the saga-novel that, because it is really
the past, not the present, that has chiefly
excited the novelist, there is a progressive
decline in interest: the narrator’s love-
affairs, and those of his friends, though
well-enough in their way, are merely
commonplace magazine-writing beside
the many quite stirring scenes of rebellious
convicts killing their overseer with a
shovel, emancipists being forced back
into the chain-gang, eloping lovers being
shot by a trooper on the goldfields, and
squatters at war with the'blacks,
Mr. Ingaraells has made no real attempt
to solve the fundamental problem of the
saga-novel: of finding some dramatic
theme which will continue from the con-
vict days to our own. He contents him-
self with linking his characters and his
generations simply by “a chain of
memory."
The transitions from past to present in
the novel are much too abrupt, destroying
the illusion of reality and continually
breaking the historical narrative just when
it is beginning to become interesting. The
present-day scenes are cluttered with un-
necessary accounts of how the narrator
conducted his researches at the Mitchell
Library and elsewhere. And the style,
finally, is wordy and sententious:
Towards the end of a long life the
individual is inclined to feed on memories,
and to review in the mind events and
chances which have most notably marked
the course. Some of them are merciless
in their demands on the young, who, con-
cerned supremely with the immediate and
personal interests of their own generation,
are frequently heartless in their indifference
to the anecdotal proclivities of age, even
contemptuous of such.
Like the same author’s saga in verse,
The Great South Land, this novel is much
too long, lacking discipline and a feeling
for dramatic form, yet with patches of
life and color which may make it read-
able. As a whole it has more-of-less the
quality of the histories which small towns
commonly print for their centenaries; a
book which must consequently have some
appeal for all Australian readers but
which, because Mr. Ingamells has not
been able to detach himself from his local
enthusiasm, is too naive and provincial in
tone to rank high ip contemporary fiction.


IS
m
.
m
<
I
> m
0
; '
xz
■
: :.‘ • ■
X
.
-
¥*
■ ■
i -,
V
■
Let your children play in safety ..,
Children’s Wading Pool
Bring the beach to your own backyard, keep surfing accidents
and sunstroke away from your children. You’ll safeguard them, yet
give them all the hilarious fun they want. . . with our Wading Pool. It’s
proofed, 6ft. x 4ft. x 12in. deep. £ 10.10.0
Bed of air ... Li Lo
For camping, a caravan or an
extra bed! Easily inflated and
6ft. long (approx.). Just
divine for a Christmas gift,
diviner though, just for you!
£5.19.6
HRMI
,
O-..:
iS;
'
tt
:: »- <•
■I
SIP
Mllfe
i
is
M
f ",
I
h
m
i
»
II
M
England's Popular Indoor Game
If Sir Francis Drake hadn t played bowls you could be sure his next
favourite would have been darts, specially if he’d owned this outstanding
board. Strong and double-
sided. 57/3 and 44/-. Set
of 3 darts is 12/11.
3^
HB
sdfsdf
(k
Ok
V
Christmas
Suggestions
DA
• .» K
DD
33
rk
J<s
Golf Balls go de-luxe
The golf ball’s ego has never
been so inflated since
Slazengers created the B 5 1.
5/6 each.
r
Clean Bowled for Gifts?
Then give bowls. Dunlop
4 7/Bin., 4 15/16in., sin.,
5 1/loin., £8.9.3. Hunselite
(ditto), £8.10.0.
CARPET
Bl Aj,
stay
indoor Carpet Bowls
Whoops of delight will come
from the family that owns
this set. It’s just 47/6.
»
\!
v
The Polocrosse Set
Now you can buy the stick
(£3.11.9) and balls (19/6
each) for this fabulous sport!
eS!
SPORTING GOODS, LOWER FLOOR, PITT STREET. BOX 2712, G.P.0., PHONE M 2401.


Overrated Atom, Underrated Alternatives
Power
By OLAF RUHEN
J HE ability of a country to produce
S lies in its power potential, and
v, ,> Australia controls even greater
wealth in its power potential than
m any other factor, or combination of
factors, in the rich and wonderful fabric
of its existence.
AII power, except the power contained
in the atom and still uncontrolled, comes
from the sun. In coal and oil are
reservoirs of power fed to the earth by
the sun ages before. In his hydroelectric
plants, man taps the energy which the
sun has expended in circulating water
fh e lower levels of the world to the
high mountains. From the sun direct it
is theoretically possible to tap the heat
lavished on wide areas and produce
power,
In New Guinea Australia controls an
area which contains the highest power
potential, in terms of hydroelectricity, in
the world. Its heavy rainfall is precipi-
fated by 14,000 ft. to 17,000 ft. mountains
at no great distance from the sea, and
its deeply corroded valleys are a dam-
builder’s dream.
In such small plants as have already
been constructed, the cost of construction
compared with the power output gives
highly favorable figures, despite the addi-
tional expense of construction in under-
developed country. Added to this, the
rainy season for one side of the mountains
lasts as long as the “dry” season on the
other, so that, if hydroelectric plants made
full use of the opportunities Nature pro-
vided, peak production of electricity
would be possible the year round.
The growth-potential of the island and
a supply of labor which is ideal for
factory employment, added to this power-
potential, makes New Guinea one of the
richest developed or undeveloped gems in
the world.
Six times the size of the British Isles,
and populated by perhaps one-thirtieth of
the numbers resident in the U.K., New
Guinea’s wealth is purely wasted. The
island is “mined” for raw materials in a
small way, and the development of this
production is the current aim of the
legislators.
But surely power-production and the
establishment of factories would be
justified if only by the saving in freight
attained by shipment of the finished,
rather than the raw, product.
Copra is the standby that springs first
to mind in any examination of New
Guinea production, but with abundant
power available perhaps the most valu-
able product of the islands would be
paper. Australians should remember that
supplies of Tasmanian paper were limited
last year, and heavy dollar and sterling
expenditure increased, because of the
limitations put on the paper-mills’ use of
power in a dry season with hydroelectric
power in short supply, and not by any
incapacity of the plant to produce.
On a river like the Sepik the raw
material can be floated without any out-
lay for transport-plant to a point like
Marienburg, where a plant and deep-
water port could be established. Long
before 1914 the Germans were sending
cruisers more than 200 miles upriver
from Marienburg, without hazard.
Thousands of square miles of wild sugar
in the upper reaches of the river could
be harvested by natives and the product
rafted for sale to such a port, where it
could be processed into paper.
But the main necessity is to develop
power at the point at which power can
be most cheaply developed.
In spite of the predictions of the atom
scientists, there seems little hope in look-
ing to the atom for cheap power. For
one thing, as Professor Millikan has
announced, the world’s supply of uranium
is strictly limited. Where it is found it is
usually in non-payable forms. The
United States, for instance, has done little
or nothing to develop the uranium-
bearing carnbtite found fairly freely over
Arizona. The Belgian Congo and
Canada, and perhaps the Bohemian mines,
in all of which uranium is found in the
form of pitchblende, have the only
deposits extensively worked.
Perhaps the best idea of what uranium
is worth—except as propaganda material
—is gained from the price paid for the
deposits. For Rum Jungle, £lOO0 —with
later payments bringing the total to £7OOO.
It is not the figure a country would pay
for its future lifeblood. The price
announced by America for uranium ore
was 3.20 dollars a pound for ore con-
taining 20 per cent, of uranium, the price
to be lessened by the cost of extraction.
A miner can make much more money
out of tin or a dozen other minerals
more freely available.
The atom scientist as yet has produced
no evidence that a plant large enough to
provide a full and constant supply of
domestic “atom-power” is more than a
dream. Such a plant would cost a sum
sufficient to build a great many hydro-
electric plants today. Atom-power, when
it is produced, must be supplementary to
a huge supply of ordinary power already
being delivered.
Nor is there any need to turn to the
atom when we have as yet only nibbled
at the immense potential of power offered
us by the sun. The coveys of plodding
mathematicians all hypnotised by the
atom, if set to work to utilise, as a source
of power, the sunshine pouring down on
Central Australia, could no doubt come
up with processes much cheaper than
those required to split the U 235 atom in
safety—and sunshine is much commoner
than uranium, a metal confined almost
strictly to the pre-Cambrian shield country
in each of the continents.
The guiding principle should be to
develop power and use it where it is. The
early settler, looking for grazing-land,
would have been amazed at any proposi-
tion to transport the feed to the animals.
He set up his grazing business where the
feed was. Probably he would have been
amazed to see the lines of trains which
today pound their way over the mountains
with coal for Sydney, where the coal is
made into power to be sent, some of it,
back over the mountains to its source.
A Bunnerong on the coalfields, with its
power transported by landline, would
have been the first thing he would have
considered.
The straightforward development and
utilisation of power wherever its potential
is to be found would immediately begin
to solve a surprising number of the
problems which concern and harass the
20th-century Australia. There is, for
instance, the problem of decentralisation.
There is little doubt that the develop-
ment of the Snowy will attract industry
to that district if for no other reason than
that it has already attracted an army of
workers. Employers will inevitably, as
the supply grows, attempt to develop the
labor potential amongst the womenfolk.
"THE CARDINAL"
by Henry G. Lamond
A story about brolgas, the birds
that stage corroborees; their loves,
their diplomacy with humans, their
prowess in war.
One of next week’s Bulletin short
stories.
Although the Snowy in its early stages is
staffed by a predominantly male labor-
force, the women and the children will
continue to appear and become more
significant there as soon as they find
accommodation.
The problems of defence are lessened
when the power sources are diversified
as to location and increased as to number.
The possibility of power-breakdowns is
lessened. Control is spread more widely
and it is a lot more difficult for a
controlling body, such as a union of
miners, to point a gun at the community.
As far as the Government or Govern-
ments are concerned, there is only one
responsibility, and the rest of the
advantages follow without their putting
a sticky finger in the pie. We are con-
ditioned to power-shortages. We have
almost never had a surplus. All the
power available to us has always been
used as quickly as it has been offered.
We are hungry for power, now and
always. No Government assistance in its
consumption is really necessary—no State
tileworks, no State building—if the Gov-
ernment of the day will attend with all its
energy to one thing: the development of
power at its source.
The Power of the Pen
AMONG the non-strenuous
sports in which I indulge I
find nothing more stimulat-
ing than engaging in inky
jousts with officialdom, more par-
ticularly those in the civic sphere,
so that when the pot-hole in the
road right opposite my car runway
remained unfilled after a few weeks
I wrote to council.
I am a firm believer in the theory
that if you make a big enough nuis-
ance of yourself for long enough
they’ll do something if only to shut
you up.
Following my usual plan, I tried
politeness first, for I hold that sar-
casm should always be used only as
a last resort. I simply pointed out
that I was unable to associate my-
self with the paeans of praise which
continued neglect of the pot-hole
must unquestionably elicit from the
Road Safety Council, which would
naturally rejoice that the enforced
daylight reduction to five m.p.h. to
negotiate the hole would reduce to
nil accidents in the area arising from
excessive speed, and from local
garages, who were reaping a wind-
fall from broken springs and shock-
absorbers suffered by unwary night-
travellers. I ended with an equally
polite hope that council might break
all previous records and fix it up
within a year or two.
The reply this brought informed
me that the road had been top-
dressed only two months before, and
that the engineer considered it
couldn’t possibly have deteriorated
in that time to the extent I claimed,
I responded with a letter expres-
sing my regrets that council had
unaccountably failed to notify the
macadam of this interesting theory,
in consequence of which the road-
surface had with great lack of cop-
sideration allowed itself to be
pounded in one spot into a by-now-
2ft.-deep hole by heavy trucks and
buses, probably with the deliberately
vicious intention of mulcting council
for extra nourishment. I closed
with the suggestion that if council
could spare the necessary two-bob’s-
worth of tar and metal the cost of
filling-in could be restricted to about
£lO, provided that the ganger and
three men whom council would deem
essential for the job could be in-
duced to go at the first of the only
three speeds they employed: slow,
dead-slow and stop.
This brought a response in which
council coldly informed me that, as
its appropriation for road-main-
tenance had already been fully drawn
upon for the financial year, no
further consideration could be given
to filling-in the hole, if any, allegedly
in front of my residence. The posi-
tion would be reviewed when next
year’s appropriation was passed.
Switching to a more conciliatory
note as a possible means of break-
ing down its adamantine attitude, I
replied congratulating council on
having achieved so little with so
much so far with the ratepayers’
money, and said that the frankness
with which it had acknowledged its
dismal failure to do its job called
for a corresponding candor on my
part.
I pointed out that, as a civil
engineer, the man who had caused
the road to be top-dressed would be
a riotous success as a wallaby-skin-
tanner or a piano-tuner, and that
council’s proud boast that its roads
could be gouged into holes quicker
than those of any other munici-
pality or shire in the Commonwealth
was never likely to be challenged. I
ended by daring the collective alder-
manic force to traverse our road in
a car, offering generously to head
the subscription-list to defray the
surgical expenses which they would
inevitably incur through displaced
livers. To this I received no reply.
A few days later some heavy rain
fell, so I wrote again. In this letter
I emphasised that, while I fully
appreciated that the rash spending
of two shillings on metal and tar to
repair what used’ to be a pot-hole
might have resulted in council hav-
ing to face a serious threat of
bankruptcy, my innate humanitarian-
ism impelled me to implore council
to fence-in what had by then been
enlarged to a water-filled crater, or,
alternatively, to provide a lifebuoy
so that the lives of those children
who perhaps might fall in and get
out of their depth while sailing their
boats in it could be saved.
Council wrote back saying that it
was the engineer’s opinion that the
hole, if any, could not possibly have
reached so large a dimension, and
that it could see no reason for alter-
ing its decision.
To this I came back with a de-
mand that, in view of the fact that
the crater could be henceforth re-
garded as a permanent feature of
the road, and that it was on my side,
I should enjoy the sole fishing-rights
when, as it must soon, it should
grow into a small waterhole, and
that the right to trap or shoot any
waterfowl landing on it should also
be vested solely in me. I also re-
quested council to send an experi-
enced ex-mariner with a lead to
take soundings of the hole daily for
the information of all ratepayers
concerned. 73,
This was not acknowledged, but I
am not one easily to be discouraged?
I followed it up with another letter
saying I suspected that nude bath-
ing-parties were being held there
nightly, and that if council had
neither the money, nous nor interest
to either pump the crater out or fill
it in they could at least send the
Nuisances Inspector along,
Two days later, coming home, I
was delighted to see that the hole had
been filled-in and neatly top-
dressed.
“You observe,” I said when I got
indoors, “how plugging away with
letters will eventually get things done?
That pot-hole outside has been”
“Cease the self-adulation and list
to the voice of disillusion,” cut in
the spouse. “One of the aldermen
has bought that new texture-brick
place up the road. I believe they’re
moving in on Friday.”
BO.
An Umpire Changes His Mind
OUT NOT OUT
IT happened in the second Test match
at the Wanderers’ Ground at Johan-
nesburg on our 1921 tour of South
Africa.
On that tour our prominent bowlers
met with accidents, throwing additional
work on to our other members. Jack
Gregory had badly jarred his shins on
the hard South African pitches during the
A.I.F. tour, and a recurrence had reduced
his speed to half-pace. Warwick Arm-
strong did not appear at any time of that
tour owing to malaria, and E. A. Mc-
Donald badly sprained his ankle and
played in only a few games.
So in the second Test Jack Ryder
bowled unchanged during the morning
session from noon to 1.30. It was a
grand performance. At one stage he was
bowling to Dave Nourse, the famous left-
handed batsman. In attempting to make
a pull-shot off a short one, Nourse just
snicked the ball and I appealed for the
catch.
The umpire gave the batsman out and
he proceeded to walk in the direction of
the pavilion, situated in front of the
wicket.
Decision secure, I threw the ball to
one of the fieldsmen. Then, to my
amazement, after the batsman was about
20yds. from the wicket, the umpire, Sam
Harries, reversed his decision and gave
the batsman in !
Nourse was by far the most popular
cricketer in South Africa, and as an act
of admiration for his prowess that
philanthropic sportsman Mr. Solly Joel
offered him a sovereign for every run he
made in the Johannesburg Test match.
As it turned out, he made 111. When he
was caught out and given “in” again his
score was about 59.
This surely must be the one and only
case where an umpire has altered his
decision in a Test.
W. A. OLDFIELD.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, November 26, 1952
Vol. 73—No, 3798
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man’*
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ; Box 2521 S
Thone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth,
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
"PEACE" AT A BOB-A-NOB
It distresses Mr. Casey that “some Australians
might doubt how worth while it was” for Australia
to go on belonging to U.N.O. Why, it only costs the
equivalent, he says, of a shilling a head of the Aus-
tralian population annually; a bob-a-nob, and cheap
at the price, for “our share in a great international
effort to achieve security.”
Is a shilling a head all this show costs us? Is that
all that the wear-and-tear of the glasshouse bickering
in New York amounts to? Does a bob-a-nob pay
for the war in Korea, where the chief architect of the
world-wide cold war, being a member of the U.N. for
much less than a bob-a-nob, is engaged in endless hate-
war against this and every other signatory of the U.N.
Charter, and is aiding with arms and malice the
design of Red China, as an aspirant member of this
peace society, to shoot its way on to a permanent seat
on its governing council?
What is the annual cost of the Korean war?
Does U.N.O. bear it? What does it cost Australia?
There has not been a line in the past two years’
national Budget to tell us.
U.N.O. is now beginning to disrupt the British
Commonwealth. Nobody who has lived through a
generation of the farce of the League of Nations can
doubt that the revolt of South Africa against this talk-
shop’s interference in a South African domestic issue
can do anything but aggravate South Africa’s problem.
The British Commonwealth’s family-feelings about
that business need no demonstration. Britain, Aus-
tralia and New Zealand and Canada, which have spent
blood and treasure to help the African people, white
and colored, along the road of self-government, are
all deeply concerned that South Africans shall work
out their difficulties in their own way.
The help and counsel of the South African
Union’s fellow-members in the British Commonwealth
is assured whenever sought. One certain way to turn
this problem sour is for the wrangling outfit in Man-
hattan to presume to teach an elected South African
Government how to go about its business in its own
house.
The reaction in Australia to that sort of inter-
ference requires no crystal-ball to discover it. U.N.O.
will be telling us next what we ought to do in New
Guinea, and after that about the reshaping of our
immigration laws at home. In that day the bob-a-nob
idea won’t look so cheap.
Dean Acheson, speaking for U.S.A. as the chief
financial and military buttress of U.N.0., said at the
opening of the most disgruntled U.N.O. Assembly
meeting yet held —and that is saying a lot—that
Korea is the test of the whole structure if it is not to
disintegrate. A few days later secretary Trygve Lie
(salary 45,000 dollars a year free of income tax, plus
expenses) resigned because Soviet Russia was boy-
cotting him. Two days later the head of the U.N.O
legal department committed suicide by defenestration
(the method supposedly popular behind the Iron
Curtain) because he was made unhappy by the
American committee’s investigations into Communist
infiltration of U.N.O. offices. When a U.N.O. typist
named Michka blandly told this committee that she had
“switched from American to Russian citizenship by
obtaining a passport from the Soviet Embassy” the
disturbance lamented by the 12-story window-jumper
is hardly a matter for astonishment. ■
This is, of course, the accompaniment to the
Soviet’s cold-war against the free-world and the once-
hopeful U.N, Charter. The harangues of hate from
Vyshinsky at the Assembly meetings hang together
with the white-anting of the juicy organism within the
new glass Tower of Babel. The Soviet has made a
dead set against Mr. Trygve Lie ever since the U.N.
Korean expedition began. His resignation produced
the situation in which the assistant-secretary, a
Russian, became acting-secretary, towards whose
salary Australians will pay their bob-a-nob until a
Persian, it is thought, may be chosen to succeed to the
job.
When Moscow nobbles the Persian the end of this
peace society, as at present constituted, should not be
far off. As Dean Acheson says, Korea is still the test.
Everybody is sick of the Korean war, but the move
to end it by accepting the terms of the aggressor is
THE ÒXYGEN BOMB
calculated to encourage him to renew his aggression
elsewhere—in Indo-Cfaina, for instance. The folly of
treating with a gunman-housebreaker as one of equal
status with the police will then be apparent. Is that
what U.N.O. is for?
Arbitration, Pressure and Loaf
If Sir John Latham, in his retirement from the Chief
Justiceship of the High Court, succeeds in getting
the Commonwealth’s industrial powers amended and
his efforts bear real fruit he will earn the thanks of
posterity.
Sir John is only talking commonsense when he
says that Parliament should have final power to deter-
mine industrial conditions. Without such a power a
Parliament is inclined to shrug-off its responsibility
in respect of industrial matters; and without question
it is a prickly responsibility. Parliament’s present
position is perhaps best illustrated by the fact that
a judgment such as the Harvester award sends its
effects down like a curse on future generations without
there being any authority save the court itself to
legislate it out of existence.
We are now paying dearly in inflation for
the effects of a basic wage which has risen
in an idiot bloat by feeding on itself. The
present rigid system has also had effects which
are not yet in full bloom. But enough has been
seen of them to prove them undesirable. If there had
been no national system to regiment the whole of the
country into huge blocs there would have been no
internal Communist menace, for the Communists are
only a vanguard leadership. Unless they have a ready-
made, regimented mass to lead they can never control
enough people to make them dangerous.
Both in war and peace Australia has learned the
danger of this nation-wide industrial regimentation
when it gets into wrong hands —like those of Comrades
Thornton, Healy and Elliott V. Elliott. In war-time
these leaders, working under cover of the fight for
“better conditions,” did not scruple to use the unions
which they controlled on a national scale to put up
the cost of defence and injure the war effort in the
interests of Moscow. And as an influence in politics,
both national and State, the existence of national-scale
unions ranged in warlike array against all classes
which oppose them has been gravely damaging.
While the present system remains politics can
never be free of organised pressure, and there elan
be no co-operation between employer and employee.
There is, of course, need for a national trade-union
system, but it should be neither centralised in control
as now, nor political. The right of bargaining should
be returned to the worker and to groups of workers
along with the right of co-operation with employers,
the right to share in management where it can be
arranged, and, above all, the right of profit-sharing.
It is wholly blighting to industry that
a group of enthusiastic workers, acting as a whole m
a factory, cannot agree to increase output, to work
longer hours, if they so desire as a whole, and to take
incentive-payments or receive bonus-shares simply
because union-leadership has determined to gear wages
up and output down to the lowest possible level in
order to pander to loaf and class-hate.
It is also quite wrong that where economic con-
ditions are such that men have to be put off because
of high wages they cannot agree to meet the needs of
the situation until better times. Again and again by
such agreements workers might be saved from going
on the dole and the taxpayers saved from keeping
them while unemployed. And the national develop-
ment would benefit.
As Sir John Latham remarked, vested interests
are opposed to the alteration of the arbitration system.
These are “Federal unions that owed their growth to
the Federal determinations and State unions that de-
pended on State jurisdictions.”
The strength of these interests is that the Arbitra-
tion Court is not a maker of general industrial policy.
It is merely an ironbound settler of disputes, and
supposedly designed to keep industrial peace. Sir John
declares:
Sometimes it was peace at any price—and the com-
munity had to pay for it. The community could not
go on much longer paying rinskilled labor as much as
skilled labor and more than highly qualified university
graduates.
That is all too true, more especially since a vast
army of civil servants, growing every year, has been
brought under the union system and has begun to
demand and receive salaries and conditions which are,
overall, considerably better than those which apply in
the white-collar and commercial industries of private
life. The point has been reached when, through arbi-
tration pressure, a Government employee is scarcely
out of junior-clerk status when he reaches the environs
of the £lOOO-a-year class.
With growing competition from low-wage
overseas countries like Japan—countries which are no
longer occupied or derelict from war, and which can
therefore bargain on the price of imports instead of
accepting the dictation of their vanquishers—the honey-
moon in Australia is nearly over and wage-scales and
conditions will in time become fully dependent not
on the arbitrary decisions of judges or the dictated
estimates of union-secretaries, but on our overall
earning- and spending-power.
The country would scarcely miss the great
magnates who now control the country through the
trade-union movement with little thought for any
objective save the consolidation of their own greatness.
But it does already miss national productivity and
earning-power lost through short hours, slow work,
strikes and the inability of factories and farms to keep
going and develop because they are forced to pay by
pressure whether they can afford it or not and whether
their own group of employees want them to pay or not.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Talks in London
Five points on the agenda for the Lon-
don talks which Mr. Menzies left to
attend last week have been announced.
They involve review of the economic
developments of recent years ; considera-
tion of the prospects of the sterling
area; the objective of external economic
policy, which embraces everything from
U.N.O. and the World Bank to the dol-
lar area and G.A.T.T.; sterling co-opera-
tion with other countries; “immediate
1953 planning.”
There is qs yet a vagueness about the
whole thing and a divergence of opinion
about various phases among the mem-
bers of the British Commonwealth. Aus-
tralia is supposedly clamoring for freer
trade between the Commonwealth and
the United States, with the very imagina-
tive hope that that country might review
its tariff policy. It will —against exporting
countries «s soon as United States
industry feels the slackening influence of
the country’s huge defence effort.
All the other sections of the Empire
have their own pigeons to kill,
and seem to work in two worlds —U.K.
and U,S. —at once, irrespective of mutual
interests, though Canada has views which
seem to trend towards united British
Commonwealth action.
The key of the immediate situation is
defence. The key of the defence of the
British Commonwealth is unity of effort.
The key to recovery of Britain (and the
British Commonwealth) as a major
Power is probably sea transport, which
will play a bigger and bigger part in
world economy as conquered and occu-
pied countries get into their normal
industrial and commercial positions and
make themselves felt to the full in
world competition. Then shipbuilding
and carrying-capacity should come into
their own. The financial and exchange
problems are vitally important, but the
greatest help in adjustment of them to
the advantage of ourselves and all Com-
monwealth countries would be the de-
velopment of latent Dominion resources
essential to the expansion of the modern
world, such as fuels, foodstuffs, atomic
metals, timber and their cheapening
through modern methods and hard work.
The Prime Minister’s discussions will
be held against the background of Dr.
Evatt’s raucous advocacy in the by-election
campaigns. In its efforts Australia —as
usual —will be sabotaged from within by
an Opposition which can never look at
any question, even defence, except from
a class-war, factional viewpoint. Any
encouragement which the Government
can give overseas investors is countered
by “Labor’s” proclaimed Socialist inten-
tions and by such incidents as its pledge
to cancel the Government’s contract with
the A.N.A. when it assumes office —
glaring repudiation calculated to frighten
any overseas investor.
Savings and Loans
Every now and then a “Labor” propa-
gandist Calwell, electioneering in
Werriwa, is the latest—raises the cry that
the people have £9OO million in the
savings banks, but won’t invest it in
Government loans because they don’t
trust the Federal Government.
The story may sound all right, but it
won’t bear examination. Those savings-
bank deposits are not in the same cate-
gory as pound-notes hidden away in ward-
robes. The £9OO million is not lying
idle ; the bulk of it is already invested
in Government loans. In the last
balance-sheet issued by the Common-
wealth Savings Bank deposits stood at
£572 million, and of that total £476 mil-
lion, or 83.2 per cent., was invested in
Government securities. The great bulk
of the money deposited with the State
savings banks in Victoria and South Aus-
tralia is also invested in Government
securities. Any large-scale withdrawal of
deposits for the purpose of investment in
loans would have the effect of reducing
the banks’ own capacity to invest in
current loans, and, if the withdrawals were
very large, of forcing them to sell some
of their present holdings.
There is a lesson to be learnt from a
study of savings-bank figures, but it is
not one that suits Calwell’s book or
“Labor’s” present line of election-talk.
At the end of August deposits totalled
£905 million. This was an increase of
£l3 million on the figures at July 1.
According to the calamity-howlers July
and August were two months during
which tens of thousands of men were be-
ing dismissed; yet in that period the
people of Australia were able to tuck
away an additional £l3 million in their
savings-bank accounts. The figure doesn’t
mean much on its own, but it is £2
million more than they were able to save
in the corresponding two months of
1951 ; £l3 million more than in 1950;
£6 million more than in 1949, when
“Labor” was in power and full employ-
ment its proudest boast.
More 40-hours Casualties
Manly ferries are following Sydney
Ferries into the mess created by (1) the
McGirrs’ 40-hour week and (2) the
“princely wages” for less work lamented
by Mr. McGirr’s successor after his
former leader had left while the going
was good.
The Manly ferry-run used to be a
cheap, efficient and flourishing enter-
prise. Along with the shorter harbor
services, it provided that characteristic
Which distinguished Sydney among the
world’s cities. Now the Port Jackson
Company has been obliged to approach
the Government (says a member of the
N.S.W. No-hope Ministry) to ask for
either a subsidy to keep going, or the
Government to take over, or an increase
in fares in order that the concern shall
be able to meet expenditure, plus an
increase in competitive bus fares for
obvious reasons. The Minister proposes
to recommend the last-named of these
suggestions. Then at the next elections
or by-election he and his chief will blame
the Commonwealth Government for not
“finding more money” or for not putting
value back into the pound.
Last year the N.S.W. tram and
bus services, working among steadily-
increasing populations, carried 33,000,000
fewer passengers than in the year
before—or collected fares for so many
fewer and lost £3,300,000, along
with the customers. At first glance
it could be reckoned that scalers cost
these services 2s. each. But the architects
of this transport mess say it is not that,
but the public’s preference for travelling
in its own cars or on its own motor-bikes,
which is a sin and a shame in the eyes of
Socialists.
In the same weeks that the authors of
40-hours work-dodging in N.S.W. have
been lamenting the need to sack railway-
men and stop school-building and sundry
vote-catching public works, the Royal
North Shore Hospital publishes in its
annual report statistics which show that
from the introduction of the 40-hour
week (in mid-1947) to the extra quid
(1950), the annual cost of maintaining a
hospital bed was about doubled, and that
in the two years since 1950, under both
these influences combined, it has come
within sight of doubling again.
The comparison is.-' —
Average cost 1946-47. 1949-50. 1951-52.
per bed .. ~ £484.6 £944 £1435.
When the August basic-wage rise
of 12s. was announced N.S.W. Works
Minister Renshaw (whose voice has not
been heard on the matter since) said the
rise would cut loan spending-money in
his State by £2,5 million and would
“mean more dismissals than we expected.”
But the N.S.W. “Labor” Government
refuses to give such testimony inside the
courts.
1$ "Labor" Australian?
“H.C.N.”: Harold Nicolson’s King
George V, His Life and Reign, now in
the hands of Australian reviewers, deals
with the episode of the appointment of
Sir Isaac Isaacs as Australian Governor-
General at the insistence of the then
Labor Prime Minister, J. H. Scullin.
Apparently in his interview with Mr.
Scullin the King endeavored to be con-
ciliatory and pointed out that the Prime
Minister had “departed from the time-
honored custom of informally suggesting
names to .the sovereign to ascertain
whether such names were likely to be
acceptable.” However, Mr. Scullin won
the day, the King’s wishes in the matter
were ignored, and Sir Isaac Isaacs was
appointed G.-G.
, Mr. Scullin’s refusal to go part of the
way with the King must have been known
to every official of the Labor party, yet
there is no record of any protest. No
principle was involved ; it was merely a
determination to carry through a piece of
valueless political doctrine which was
thoroughly abhorrent to all Australians
who cherish the ties with the throne.
Political Labor on the march today is
careful not to mention such matters as
Socialisation or the appointment of Aus-
tralians lo the office of Governor-
General. The episode referred to is all
part of a pattern of two-facedness which
is almost commonplace in Labor’s poli-
tical actions.
Australians have more than their share
of loyal attributes and sentiments, and
these have been confirmed and strength-
ened by events since the days when Mr.
Scullin tilted at his own political wind-
mill of “imported Governors.”
Labor is seeking political power through
the instrumentalities of democracy and
British tradition. But does it sincerely
believe in either? Socialism is neither
democratic nor British. During the
coming months Labor should be system-
atically checked in its “Golden Age”
vaporings and compelled to declare itself
on fundamental principles.
Arthur Sticks His Neck Out
Victorian State elections are an all-in
scrimmage among four elevens in the
field, though three elevens previously pro-
vided chaos enough. But at least the
uproar is confined to local politics, and
Dr. Evatt’s attempt to drag in Common-
wealth issues has so far fallen flat.
Last week deputy Federal leader Cal-
well weighed-in at Heidelberg Town Hall
—before an audience of 70. The Calwell
style of abuse slightly overreached itself.
Having described Premier McDonald and
L.C.P. leader Norman as troglodytes (with
sundry adjectives slanderous from any-
body but a “Labor” politician), and quite
ignoring the fact that “Labor” had sup-
ported the chief “troglodyte” in office for
two riotously expensive years, Mr. Calwell
said of Mr. Norman:
The poor little pigmy, as insipid as he is
irrational, and as uninspiring as he is
illogical .... No amount of low mendacity,
etc., etc. .
There was nothing insipid in “the poor
little pigmy’s” prompt reply. Mr. Cal-
well’s vitriblic abuse, he said, was his
mainstay:
I have evidence of his attitude in public
affairs. Just after the war in 1945 I was
secretary of an organisation trying to
arrange for British prisoners-of-war re-
leased from Japanese bands to settle in
Australia. After 12 months' battling and
getting nowhere I went to see Mr. Cal-
well, Immigration Minister in Canberra.
I was dismissed with the one sentence'—
I won’t repeat Mr. Calwell’s adjective—
“ Mr. Norman, this is a problem for the
so-and-so British Government, not for
me.” He called me a poor little pigmy.
Well, there were 15,000 other poor little
pigmies in Japanese prisoner-of-war camps
Interested in this matter, too.
Mr, Calwell hastened next day to
repair the damage by saying that in
political life “one must be prepared to
take it as well as give it,” and that “after
Mr. Norman’s criticisms of the ‘Labor’
party I am entitled to compare him with
the great leaders of the Liberal party in
other days.”
But he was still rubbing his neck.
Destruction of Native Art
“Tabu” : Generally speaking, missionaries
have done a great deal of good. Their
self-imposed task usually brings little in
the way of thanks, though they may
devote the better part of a lifetime to it.
But they are human, and are just as
liable to err as the next man.
Seventy years ago Robert Louis
Stevenson drew attention to their worst
error. After pointing out that any change
of habits, whether salutary or hurtful,
can be fatal to a native race —“Bloodier
than a bombardment” were his words
—he went on to decry the prevailing
mission policy of destroying all the
original beliefs of natives. His advice
was; “Encourage the growth of new
habits instead of violently uprooting the
old.”
Today the anthropologists unite in de-
claring that he hit the nail fairly on the
head. In spite of this, some missionaries
will not heed the anthropologist, and it
may soon be necessary for the law to
step in.
As late as 1939 Sir Harry Luke, during
his term of office as High Commissioner
for the Western Pacific, had to promul-
gate an ordinance to prohibit the “Mis-
sionary ban on traditional dances and
innocent and harmless native games and
pastimes.” Less publicised was the
promise of trouble in store for any mis-
sionary who continued to fine converts
for non-attendance at church, or who
went in for that more subtle form of
coercion : the refusal to supply tobacco
to those who didn’t attend services.
The most foolish of all missionary
errors is to regard anything in the shape
of a carved figure as a “heathen idol” and
to order its owner to burn it. In the
early days of mission-work in the Pacific
an appalling destruction of native art
was brought about in this way. Today
the only existing specimens of canoe
figureheads or carved doorposts from
some parts of the Pacific are the few sent
home by missionaries as samples of
“idols.”
No such destruction took place in New
Zealand, chiefly because the missionaries
there, under the guidance of the level-
headed Samuel Marsden, were able to
recognise the carved totara-posts and
barge-boards in the Maori pahs for what
they are—works of real art, and probably
the finest examples of wood-carving done
by any native race on earth. To class
them as “idols” would have been as
foolish as to apply a similar description
to our own paintings and statuary.
Word has been received from New
Guinea that some missionaries in the
Central Highlands have been directing
their converts to burn everything con-
nected with their old life, so once again
the carved figures and dancing-masks on
which native craftsmen have spent weeks
of careful work are going up in smoke.
Any museum would regard them as trea-
sures, and they will be irreplaceable when
the present primitive culture is lost.
The Administrator should make a
personal investigation ; if the missionaries
will not call a voluntary halt to this un-
necessary destruction of native art, then
compulsion should be used,
Nye's "Key" Men
From London: Mr. Hugh Gaitskell has
described the Bevanites as “a bunch of
frustrated journalists.” There is no doubt
whatever that the tool most in common lo
them is not a spade or a lathe, but a
typewriter.
Some of them are skilled, popular
journalists. In particular Mr. Michael
Foot, an accomplished and bigoted class-
warrior, was directly responsible for much
of Labor’s success in 1945 when, as
“Cassio,” he attacked the Tories in
“Guilty Men” and other pamphlets. Tom
Driberg, the latest Bevanite to joint the
Labor-party executive, has been editor of
the “Co-op.” Sunday paper, “Reynolds
Illustrated News,” and writes a weekly
column in it. “Dick” Crossman, the
wayward genius of foreign affairs, is
associate editor of the “New Statesman”
and a regular contributor to the “Sunday
Pictorial” ; while John Freeman, who re-
signed office at the same time as Mr.
Bevan, is also on the staff of the former.
“Tribune,” now reduced to four sheets,
has an editorial board of that same
number: Miss Jennie Lee (Mrs. Bevan)
and Messrs. Foot, Mikardo and Malla-
lieu. (The lastnamed and Mikardo engage
in a persistent cub-whelping against Mr.
Churchill.) Mr. Bevan holds himself
aloof from editorial responsibilities, but
his influence, whether in or out of office,
is re-echoed in the pages of “Tribune,”
which at present is vociferously engaged
in his plan of “Socialist re-education in
Great Britain” and, concurrently, in
advancing the claims of its protagonist.
As the lesser-known Socialist journals
all follow the Bevan lead, it may be
argued that almost the entire Socialist
Press is controlled or influenced by the
Bevan line. The single exception is the
official organ, the “Daily Herald,” which
enjoys the same substantial backing as
the party funds. Attlee and Co. can find
but cold comfort in the fact that it stands
so pitifully alone in the fight for the
Right.
Land Values
The Land Court in Brisbane, presided
over by Mr. Payne, the State’s leading
land authority, has given a nasty jolt to
the “Labor” Government and its grab-
bers who indulge in unfair municipal
rating.
Queensland has a Valuation of Land
Act which, as the court says, “makes it
impossible for the Valuer-General to
arrive at correct land-valuations as at the
date the valuation came into effect.”
The Governor-in-Council, after the
valuations are made, proclaims the date
on which they shall take effect, and this
date “becomes the time as at which the
value is required to be ascertained” for
the purposes of the Acts and municipal
rating.
In valuing the City of Brisbane area
work began in May, 1950 ; but the date
on which “value is required to be ascer-
tained” for resumption purposes was
proclaimed about two years later.
Mr. Payne in his judgment said that
“the well-established principle of valua-
tion is to value lands on or after the
relevant date 7 when all conditions and
circumstances are known, and thus elimi-
nate, as much as possible, the element
of conjecture.” Instead, the Queensland
Act “prescribes a method of valuation
which, in my opinion, is impossible of
accurate performance.”
In this case the lands were valued for
rating on the basis of the peak market
of 1950-51, to come into effect after
values had shown a considerable decline
(Continued on page 7)


Users Report — “IT’S, WONDERFUL!
hshsuhsEII
The EFFECTIVE treatment for
RHEUMATISM
ARTHRITIS
GOUT
and swollen and inflamed joints
There is NO substitute
Colchisone is the only treatment of its kind available in Australia.
Made _ in England from a special formula, it contains individually
effective ingredients which, when blended together by the exclusive
process used in the manufacture of this amazing product, give outstanding
and almost instant relief. It is guaranteed harmless.
COLCHISONE
All Chemists. Price 30/- per bottle with diet
instructions (one bottle is usually sufficient).
Rickard Medical Products Pty Ltd., 21 Oxford Street, Sydney.
in 1952 following credit restriction. The
Valuer-General contends that, notwith-
standing credit restrictions and other
restrictive factors, land values did not
decline; but Mr. Payne says that this
viewpoint is “the result of failing to dis-
tinguish between the price which a seller
might actually get from an advantageous
sale and the price which an experienced
and prudent man, and not over-anxious
buyer, would willingly give in the light
of the restrictive factors then operating.”
He found in two test cases that the
Valuer-General’s valuations were made
without regard to the economic circum-
stances and restrictive factors operating
on June 30, 1952. He says the matter
calls for the attention of Parliament, and
that it must “be recognised as funda-
mental to the public welfare that revenue
valuations should not be such as to put
the value of some home-sites beyond the
reach of the great majority of the people
who mainly provide the services for the
community and on whose work the pro-
gress of the State depends.” He cut one
valuation from £325 to £250, and another
from £640 to £490, in each case to within
a few pounds of the owner’s estimate.
POLITICAL POINTS
It is not fair to say there is no limit
to what “Labor” will promise in order
to win an election. In Melbourne last week
John Cain made a definite statement that
“If Labor is elected I do not promise
the millennium, I cannot.” Modesty
could go no further than that.
• •
Hollway has described Victorian
politics as a “music-hall joke,” Many
Victorians feel that the joke has got be-
yond the laughing stage and that a change
of programme is called for.
• •
Whatever else may be said of Victorian
politics at the present time they can’t
be accused of being dull. Hollway’s meet-
ing at Malvern Town Hall was one of the
liveliest and rowdiest seen there for years.
The leader of the Liberal rebels told his
audience, in between interruptions, that
his two-for-one plan was originally con-
ceived by the executive of the Liberal
party, endorsed unanimously by the Par-
liamentary party and remained on the
notice-paper for two years. The State
council of the Liberal party had agreed
to it by 380 votes to 10. Its ultimate
rejection two years later was carried “on
a snap-vote in the council by 128 votes
to 125,” and all efforts to have its resub-
mitted had failed.
• •
Slogans, like many other things, have
their seasons. For months Sydney has
been plastered with Communist stickers
proclaiming “Menzies Must Go.” Last
week, when medical decision was being
awaited as to whether the Prime Minister
should make the London trip, the message
took on a meaning hardly intended by
its sponsors.
• •
Campaigning for the Werriwa by-
election next Saturday quietened down
after the initial flurry of words and
figures, but is expected to burst out again
this week. Gough Whitlam, with the
knowledge of “Labor’s” big majorities in
the electorate right back to 1934 to en-
courage him, has probably got his bags
packed already ; but the Doc, wants some
really spectacular figures to back up the
Flinders victory. In this connection the
intensive house -to - house canvassing
Liberal candidate Griffith has been put-
ting in may pay a dividend, Bruce
Graham, in St. George, not so far from
Werriwa, has shown how valuable that
sort of campaigning can be.
• •
Treasure-seekers are hereby warned not
to go rushing up to the Monte Bello
islands after the lost gold mentioned on
page 27. The area is still radioactive and
restrictions on landing are still in force.
• •
H. B. Turner, M.L.A. for Gordon in
the New South Wales Assembly, won
the Ash-street Quiz, and with it the
Liberal nomination for Bradfield. So
far there is no “Labor” starter for the
seat; the party seems to be waiting to
see what sort of Independents decide to
run. There’s only one so far —Samuel
Simons, a Gallipoli veteran who styles
himself Independent Liberal, Edward
Wright, son of David McKee Wright,
was reported as leaving Townsville to
enter the lists, but he doesn’t seem to
have checked in yet. Nominations close
next Wednesday.
• o
All this talk about populating the
Centre seems to be eyewash. When a
bunch of Italian migrants arrived in Alice
Springs believing there was work there
for them they were promptly bundled
back to the cities again. Fortunately,
South Australian towns and farms were
able to absorb most of them before they
got back to the really Big Wens.
Victoria’s State Electricity Commis-
sion’s Socialistic enterprise at Yallourn
has overreached itself a trifle. Mr. Justice
Dean ruled in the Supreme Court that
the commission was a common trespasser
on a large slice of acquired land on which
it had erected a “model” town of over
400 houses, complete with streets, shop-
ping centres, places for schools, churches,
playgrounds, parks and recreation
reserves. His Honor couldn’t find any-
thing in the Act justifying the invasion of
private property on such a grandiose scale,
although it does confer powers to provide
homes for shopkeepers and others who
provide services for S.E.C, employees.
What is going to be done with the model
township isn’t known. Perhaps it could
be suspended in mid-air by captive bal-
loons kept afloat by the commission’s
inflated charges.
• •
Maroochydore (Q.) wanted a 1400-yard
footpath. The shire council didn’t have
the money, so the locals set to with
voluntary labor and did the job them-
selves. Australia could do with a lot
more of this sort of thing.
• •
If at any time during his terms of
office as A.L.P. president and boss of the
railways union J. A. Ferguson had been
asked whether he favored a reduction in
the price of the workers’ milk the odds
are a gold pass to an expired train-ticket
he’d have said yes. Things are different
now he’s chairman of the Milk Board.
Last week he told some dairymen that
if the price were reduced a penny there
wouldn’t be one extra pint of milk sold
—“the trouble is buyer-resistance.” In
changing his viewpoint, he seems to be
also confusing his terms. Buyer-resist-
ance is usually taken as a sign that the
public thinks the price is too high.
• •
“Liberal Opinion” (N.S.W.) calls the
N.S.W. Government’s policy of penal
taxation of road-transport operators
“brutal.” If this means that it will be
Liberal policy to liberalise road-transport
regulations, then the party ought to begin
saying so. If it did it would have thous-
ands of transport-owners and -drivers
working enthusiastically for its return at
the next N.S.W. election.
• •
When the grim treason trials in Prague
are over there’ll probably be another
batch, with the principal figures the
comrades who prepared the evidence for
the present series. The naming of Noel
Coward as one of the conspirators
suggests that someone has been out in the
midday sun, but when the really high-up
Reds realise the humor behind the
description of Konni Zilliacus as “that
well-known agent of Imperialism” the
stage will be set for “voluntary” con-
fessions on a large scale.
• •
A Melbourne man who claimed that he
was made into a hysterical neurotic when
he was hit by two empty beer-barrels
that bounced off a brewery-wagon has
been awarded £3OOO. The general public
isn’t half so lucky. If the brewery-strike
lasts till Christmas half Melbourne’s
population will have been turned into
hysterical neurotics by being hit by empty
barrels metaphorically speaking but
not a penny compensation will they get.
• •
Premier Cahill told Ick-Hewins, secre-
tary to N.S.W. Graziers’ Association, that
he couldn’t ease motor taxation because
he wants the money for roads. What
about the £500,000 a year Cahill’s Gov-
ernment collects in load-tax from road-
hauliers —and pays direct to the railways?
That would build a mile or two of road.
• •
In Britain first steps are being taken to
free transport; a bill to restore road-
transport to private enterprise and de-
centralise the railways is before • the
Commons. Herbert Morrison described
the measure as a “bad, mischievous and
destructive bill” and accused Churchill of
“playing about with the nation’s transport
for purely partisan political purposes.”
Even the alliteration *and the more-than-
usually good-humored tone in which the
statement was made don’t make it any
the less foolish. The Conservatives
promised to de-nationalise road-transport
and steel. The electors gave them a
majority and now they are proceeding to
carry out their promise. Their bill to
free the steel-industry is to follow shortly.
• •
Latest prophecy by the least-successful
political prophet in the game today:
Victoria will continue its downward slide
until it becomes comparable to a tenth-rate
South American Republic if Labor is not
elected with an absolute majority.
If Arthur Calwell ever had any aspira-
tions in the field of External Affairs he’d
better drop them after that. There are
only 10 republics in South America, and
it might be embarrassing if some of them
asked which one he rated last —and on a
par with Victoria.
• •
A woman’s right to change her mind
isn’t recognised by the electoral laws.
After fighting a good fight for a couple
of weeks as Independent candidate for
Brighton, Mrs. G. M, Stratton announced
her intention of withdrawing from the
contest. She was briefly informed that
she couldn’t withdraw; her name would
still be on the ballot-paper and she would
lose her £5O deposit. Deciding that she
might as well get her money’s worth,
the lady whaled in again with vigor.
• •
Back from a trip to America and
Europe, Joint Coal Board chairman
Cochrane thinks there is a good chance
of building up an export trade in coal,
but high costs are the snag. Greater
efficiency is needed, and he feels that
mechanisation is the answer. Does this
mean we are any closer to getting the
unions to agree to the mechanical extrac-
tion of pillar-coal?
• •
To the ordinary observer the difference
between a hole half an inch in diameter
and one nine-sixteenth of an inch in
diameter is one-sixteenth of an inch. To
the Amalgamated Engineering Union the
difference is big enough to throw 2000
men out of work, close down several
mines and lose the community over 8000
tons of coal a day. The crazy strike be-
gan when an electrical fitter who, fol-
lowing union instructions, had refused
to bore the bigger hole was suspended.
The Maitland branch secretary of the
union, giving evidence before the Coal
Tribunal, said he thought the manage-
ment should be reprimanded for the sus-
pension. Mr. Gallagher said that if he
really meant that, then “it is about time I
had a psychiatrist as an assessor.” A
psychiatrist might be useful, but an
alienist would be even more so.
• •
Evatt minor seems rather subdued
these days, as befits a Housing Minister
whose foundation-stones have been
almost shot from under him. He should
be heard from any day now. His col-
league Weir has intimated that land
resumed for the Eastern Suburbs rail-
way, on which work has been suspended,
will now be returned to its owners. This
naturally raises the question why the
Housing Commission should hang on to
land which on its own showing it is not
likely to build on for a long time. The
director of the Building Industry Con-
gress of N. S. Wales estimates that the
commission holds over 40,000 building-
blocks, and he urges the view that if
the Government can’t build on them it
is time it gave private enterprise a chance
to do so.
• •
According to Minister for Labor Holt
employment figures in factories in New
South Wales and Victoria showed an up-
ward trend last month for the first time
this year. The announcement brought no
expression of pleasure or thankfulness
from Dr. Evatt and his henchmen. If
they are as concerned as they profess to
be at the prospect of rising unemploy-
ment, surely they should be relieved to
hear that the position is improving.
• •
C. R. McKerihan, president of the
N. S. Wales Rural Bank, is another who
does not share the Evatt view that ruin
is staring us in the face. He prophesied
on Friday that Australia’s export income
this year would be the second-largest in
her history, and pointed out that we had
a credit trade balance of £63 million for
July/ October this year, compared with
an adverse balance of £166 million for
the same period of 1951,
• •
As a sign of international trade picking
up, imports of coal and coke into Argen-
tina in the first eight months of 1952
totalled 1,325,753 metric tons. It came
from U.S.A. 854,832, U.K. 339,881,
Poland 80,941, Peru 16,157, South Africa
13,352* Chile 10,900, Germany 4690, the
Netherlands 5000. From Australia, now
concerned about surplus coal, not a single
lump!
• •
American film mogul Spyros Skouras,
now in this country, says that if anyone
can write a bestseller with an Australian
flavor he’ll be interested. He ought to
get an option on the N.S.W. Liquor
Commission’s report.
• •
External Affairs Minister Casey sums
up Russia’s contribution to the welfare
of the world’s needy;
Russia belongs to none of the economic
and humanitarian agencies of the United
Nations. Russia had made no contribu-
tions to the children’s fund or to the
International Refugee Organisation In
the days when they still had some measure
of independence, the Governments of
Czechoslovakia and Poland made such con-,
tributions, but in the last three years not
a penny has come from Eastern Europe for
these programmes. The Soviet Union is a
country of 200 million people; Australia is
' one of 81 million. Under U.N. and other
programmes of relief and assistance Aus-
tralia has contributed or pledged no less
than 180 million dollars. Russia has not
contributed one penny.
• •
“X.S.”: A 19-year-old girl who was
awarded £4500 damages for injuries re-
ceived when she was a passenger in a
car that overturned in Melbourne said
in evidence that she was fond of dancing,
swimming and diving before the accident,
but now the movement of dancing and
the poise of the orchestra irritated her
head and she could not swim because
she could not bear to wear a bathing-cap.
She told Judge Barry that she had since
become engaged to the driver (against
whom the verdict was given) and was
going to marry him in December. The
insurance companies involved will no
doubt derive considerable pleasure from
such a happy ending.
• •
Aneurin Bevap missed out on a place
in British Labor’s “shadow Cabinet,” and
so did his team-mates, though it seems
as if a change in the method of voting
was a big factor in his reverse ; instead
of picking the whole 12 in one batch,
two ballots were held, each for half-a-
dozen. Had the old system been used
Bevan would have been twelfth man. His
reaction will probably be to form a
shadow shadow Cabinet,


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Becks”: Estate-agents have long been
famous for their ability to throw a stone
further than a normal person can fire a
rifle—especially when they are throwing
it towards a railway-station or a shopping-
centre ; but there’s one of the profession
in Sydney who has found a new angle
on the missile-business. He is advertising
a property situated “half a stone’s-throw
from Manly pool.”
* ❖ *
“Teepee”: As a model parade-ground
soldier and a first-class fighting man in
action, Gilhooligan on duty was the pride
of our unit; Gilhooligan on leave was
the object of our collective shame. In-
variably he went on leave an acting-
sergeant and returned under provost
escort to be ignominiously stripped of his
stripes. Equally regularly his perform-
ance in the next show won back his three
hooks. Came the time when the C. 0.,
confident that the N.G. jungle would
offer no chance of beery disgrace, success-
fully recommended
Gilhooligan for a
commission. On the
way back from
brigade he en-
countered a brace of
Yank loots who in-
sisted on toasting his
pips in real bourbon.
Thereafter a per-
verse fate decreed
that Gilhooligan’s
driver should be
halted for a routine
check by a provost
pair whose subse-
quent and painful
testimony uttered
through splattered
lips before the
G.O.C. resulted in
the loss of six
months’ seniority for
the officer - and-
gentleman of a few
hours’ standing. A
few days later the
C. 0., faced with a
decision whether to
recommend the
problem-boy for
conspicuous gallantry
in action or send
him to front the
G.O.C. again on
another complaint
of further cruelty to
provosts, chose the
latter course. The
G.O.C. awarded him
six months’ loss of
seniority, which drew
Gilhooligan’s panic-
stricken remark in
the mess: “Gripes,
I hope the blasted Nips don’t pack-up
before I work myself up to a positive
lieutenant! ” He was still behind scratch
on Hiroshima Day.
*l* ❖ ❖
“M’Lou”: Biblical diction is not yet
outmoded. A recent Egg Board circular
directs all registered producers —and all
who have 40 or more laying hens must
register with the board —to deliver all
their eggs to the board “except such por-
tion .... as you require for your own
use for seed, or desire to sell to another
producer for seed, or for use in your own
home.”
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Arno”; We were talking of New Aus-
tralians and the language difficulty, when
our host, a missionary who had spent
some time in India, told us of a passage-
at-arms he once had with a Czech. “I
was touring near Calcutta,” he said,
“when I came upon the Bata shoe-factory.
It was Saturday, and there was nobody
about except one man, obviously a
European. I asked if he would show
me round the factory, but he shook his
head and said; ‘English—not! ’ Very
unusual for the India of those days. I
tried: ‘Parlez-vous frangais?’ Again a
shake of the head and ‘Not!’ So I
tried; ‘Shayad ap Hindustani bat bol
“HE will!"
sakte hain ?’ ‘Not!’ Well, I tried him
in Bengali, and I even tried Latin and
Greek; but always he replied: ‘Not!’
Then I suddenly remembered that the
Bata people are Czechs ; he could prob-
ably speak German, ‘Sprechen der
Deutsch ?’ I asked him. The man’s face
lit up with pleasure. ‘ Ja, ja !’ he said ex-
citedly. ‘Well,’ I said, T’m very sorry,
but the only German I know is: ‘Auf
wiedersehen, so — Auf wiedersehen.’ And
I raised my hat and came away.”
*** * ❖
“Aestur”: Best first-aid yarn I’ve heard
is the one told against herself by a
woman who, in an emergency, always lost
her head. She deplored the fact to her
"Nice bit o' burley! "
friends, who urged her to take up first-
aid work as a means of overcoming the
fault. She tried it. Came the test: her
son took a toss from his horse and
staggered home with one arm hanging
limp and blood pouring down his face
from a head wound. The lady reported:
“I kept my head. I walked calmly inside,
sat down in a chair, bent well forward
and hung my head low, and thus pre-
vented myself from fainting.”
“Curate’s Egg”: That wheeze of
“Ceg’s” oil-company promoter who
smeared his prospectus with oil-stains (B.
12/11/’52) reminds me of the time I sat
down at meat in the Greek restaurant
with Chilla, my shearer-mate. Chilla
studied the menu for a moment and then,
in alcoholic witticism, remarked to
Leonidas: “Pretty good idea, mate, hav-
ing samples stuck all over the menu like
this.” “Dank you!” replied the Greek
with a beaming smile, as he departed to
get the steak and eggs. Whether Leonidas,
in deliberating at length on the remark,
became aware of its insulting motif, or a
more Australian-wise kitchen - hand
explained its import I know not, but a
minute later it took the entire clientele
of the place—four of us—to detach from
the badly-mauled Chilla the enraged
Greek, who showed a fine disregard for
his own cafe furniture in avenging the
insult.
❖ * ❖
“Pat”: Always at the other end of a
book of raffle-tickets, she was a woman
with whom my previous acquaintance
had extended simply to purchasing a
ticket in one dozen of beer, a bottle of,
Scotch or a case of wine. Nor is there
any precedent to establish that those who
so commendably sell tickets for such
“goodies” on behalf of charity must them-
selves be topers. Nevertheless it came
as a shock the day I visited her house as
a guest when the host ghosted me into
the toolshed at the bottom of the yard
for a quickie. The stock down there was
good and widely varied, but there were
no visas issued for its transport into the
house. “The wife,” he murmured fear-
fully, “is strictly T.T. She won’t have it
there on any account.”
*t* ♦♦♦ *
“W.M.H.”: One very busy night at the
women’s hospital a young girl stumbled
into the admission-ward and collapsed
before she could call for assistance. The
nurse on duty sized-up tfie situation, rang
for help and within a few minutes the
expectant mother was carried off to bed.
Just then the nurses noticed another
woman lying unconscious in the doorway.
She, too, was hurriedly put to bed. Then
the house-doctor was notified and came
down to see the new arrivals. Just as he
was about to examine the second woman,
she regained consciousness. Realising
where she was, she choked back a scream,
jumped out of bed and demanded an
explanation. She was the mother of the
first arrival, and had accompanied her
daughter to the hospital. In her anxiety
over her daughter’s condition she had
fainted on the doorstep.
+*♦ +s■
“Findy”: South Australian crime-
history can produce a modern instance of
a type of neckwear going out of fashion
after its wearer had ex-
changed it for the hang-
man’s noose (B. 19/11 / ’52).
About 30 years ago Perci-
val Budd was hanged for
the murder of an Adelaide
taxi-driver. At that time
soft-collars were just begin-
ning to oust the starched
variety. They came in all
patterns, but most designs
ran to narrow, horizontal
stripes. At the time of his
execution a photograph of
Budd appeared in the
papers ; he was wearing a
collar with broad vertical
stripes. Such collars were
generally considered rather
hideous, but they had their
supporters till Budd’s
photo, was published. Then
they vanished almost over-
night, and the hardy crea-
ture who attempted to wear
out his old stock soon
caved-in after he’d been
greeted a few times with “I
see you’ve got your Budd
collar on.” As with most
murderers, there was a
school of thought that con-
sidered Budd innocent of
the killing for which he was
hanged. Perhaps he was, but most of us
felt that a man who would wear a collar
like that was capable of any crime.
♦+♦ ♦♦♦
“B. A. Ker”: If the P.M.G. Depart-
ment is in the red it’s not the fault of
the bloke in charge of the stamp-machines
outside our local post-office. At first his
methods reflected all the gaucheries of
the tyro: you placed your three pennies
in the slot and received nothing at all.
But experience has brought subtlety. Now
the method is to keep the threepenny
machine constantly charged, the ha’penny
fixed at “Not in service.” An after-hours
letterposter arrives, gets his threepenny
stamp first —everybody works from left to
right—then finds that ha’penny ones are
not available. If he has three more
pennies and a friendly nature he buys an-
other stamp —and the P.M.G. makes
tuppence-ha’penny for jam. If he lacks
change or big-heartedness he posts his
letter with but one stamp; the addressee
pays the ha’penny —plus excess charges.
It’s sheer genius.
+♦♦ ❖
“Sebak”: While working in a school-
playground recently I saw a born leader
in action. The sportsmaster, after select-
ing the broad-jump team, had walked
away from the shallow, sand-filled trench.
Immediately scores of non-competitors
rushed up —some to demonstrate their
skill, others to frolic in the sand or balk
the jumpers by standing in their track.
The spoilers had gained reinforcements
and taken up a defiant, defensive line
when the born leader materialised. “We’ll
charge them,” he announced. “All charge
together.” He marshalled his attackers,
placed himself about sixth from the front,
then,, in ringing tones, gave the order:
“Char-rge!” In a brave, unbroken line
they charged—until the leaders collided
violently with the defenders and both
sides went sprawling into the sand. But
one figure swerved off just in time to
avoid contact —the born leader. Three
times he organised charges—and never
got close enough to take a shoulder bump
or jolting elbow. What a Commo leader
in the making!
VOICES FROM ABOVE
“This is an outstanding year for cicadas; they shriekcd-
down the hookies at Warwick Farm racecourse.”
Why, Yellow Mondays, why your Saturday alarm?
And did your horse run dead, your bookie burke,
When you drowned-out the shouts at Warwick Farm,
Proclaiming “Work-irks-jerk-works-lurk” ?
O Floury Baker, you might well have been
A “Labor” member, full of shriek and perk.
Had Evatt felt assured of what you mean
With your “Work-irks-jerk-works-lurk.”
What does it mean, Greengrocer ? Let us know —
Don’t leave us in an intellectual murk.
Like sponsors spruiking on the radio.
With your “Work-irks-jerk-works-lurk” !
Alas, Black Prince, your edicts, said or sung.
Are fitted only for the quizz and quirk.
Said six times rapidly to twist the tongue.
Your gnomic “Work-irks-jerk-works-lurk” !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM-
MATSUE, JAPAN
These isthmus ethers fume all form to
veils;
the alps go gauze ; the valleys vaporise;
each shadow’s shadow stealthily exhales
an image that no eye can finalise.
Mist in Matsue of bamboo and moats
dissolve the windbells, lotus lanes and
shrines;
distilled to net the timeless castle floats
on slopes of silhouettes of fog-film pines.
Now, sly in ray-barred alleys, mirage men
seek geishas where the lamps of paper
yearn ;
sore-throated music of the samisen
cries near the house where lived Lafcadio
Hearn.
Here are his relics; frock-coat, dumb-
bell, clock,
combinations, tooth-glass, one darned
sock.
TASMANIA.
HAL PORTER.


“Harbel”: “Aussie,” a workmate of
mine, is a Pole; his nickname was not
born of sarcasm, but merely the old Aus-
tralian habit of cutting handles down to
an easily-tossed length. From something
like “Vozellof” to begin with, there came
“Ozellof,” then “Ozell” and finally
“Aussie.” “Aussie’s” wife is a Yugoslav
girl he met in Germany; their daughter
was born there. The oldest son had
Belgium for his birthplace, but the baby.
“No good to us. It ain't got a lift."
“Aussie” told me proudly, is an “Old
Australian.” I couldn’t see how the
youngest could be “Old” and the rest
“New” —until, with a broad grin, he
explained; “He’s made in Australia.”
❖ ♦♦♦
“Spare Teller”: Back in the days before
King O’Malley’s Commonwealth Bank
took "over the Queensland Government
accounts from the old Q.N.B. the endorse-
ments of cheques were a major bugbear
for country branches; the bank had a
martinet on this matter in the person of
the final referee at head office. In one
branch in a quiet farming district “Old
Mac,” the manager, was a tonic to the
banking fraternity as to his customers.
One day a cheque drawn by the Queens-
land Works Department came to hand,
payable to the order of one Patrick
Costello and with an unintelligible scrawl
endorsed upon it. It was sent forward,
but the authority at head office ordered
it back for certification by the branch. In
due course it was re-presented bearing
the addition of “Endorsement Correct.
Bill Blank, Teller.” The Government
ledgerkeeper again referred it to the
authority for decision, who roared: “It
is not correct, send it back to be guaran-
teed as Costello’s signature,” On its third
arrival in Brisbane the much-travelled
cheque was paid without hesitation ; “Old
Mac” had finished the dispute with the
following endorsement in his flowing
handwriting: —■
This is the writing of Patrick Costello,
Of whom you will please understand,
That when Patrick becomes a little bit
mellow
He writes a most damnable hand.
(Signed) “Old Mac,” Manager.
♦♦♦ *** *
“5 G.R.”: The sight of 30 railway
track-men going flat-out on the job was
so unusual I stopped the car. There was
nobody fanning a fire with his hat,
nobody drinking tea, nobody asleep, no
group of five bosses watching one man
work, no nit-keeper listening for the
ganger’s motor. The men were New
Australians trying to keep their jobs.
Further along the road P.M.G. linesmen
were after rabbits. But they were good
Australians.
£* *X* ❖
“Clooter”; Discovered a new occupa-
tional disease when I consulted my .doctor
about small recurring pains in the back
of the neck. He had a good look over
the area, but could find no sore spot—
the pains, which have never got worse
and are only severe enough to be annoy-
ing, move about the area. “You wear
bifocals,” was the verdict. “Anybody of
your age who wears them and does a lot
of reading suffers the trouble. It’s a
fibrositis caused by carrying the head at
the angle required for reading through
bifocals. Try some liniment.” I’m off
up to the union to see if I can claim
bifocal money.
*■ * ❖
“C.Q.”: Diogenes’s search for one
honest man had nothing on an Edin-
burgh town-council’s quest for 12 teetotal
tailors. A deceased hotelkeeper had left
in trust a sum of money to be distributed
when it reached £6OOO to 12 pliers of the
thread and needle who never touched
hard liquor. Up to time of writing not
one has been found. I wonder why Bung
made his teetotal stipulation. Was it a
kind of death-bed remorse at the evil
wrought by the stuff he sold? Or was
he a dandy who had spent a lifetime
trying to get a suit of clothes that didn’t
look as if it had been made by an
alcoholic?
+j+
“B.”; The “Old Man Biddulph” of
Gilliat (B. 12/11 /’52) was not related to
Rachel Henning, but he was a distant
cousin of the Biddulphs who were.
Nevertheless, he can claim our interest in
his own right. With his sister he was
brought to Australia in the Sophia Jane,
first steamship to visit Sydney. That was
in 1831, when he was four; his father,
Lieutenant Edward Biddulph, R.N., jvas
in command of the ship. Edward had
seen much service in the Napoleonic wars.
He was four years in the frigate Inde-
fatigable, a crack ship of her day, and
took part in several single-ship actions,
and, with his ships’ boats, captured and
sank a French brig defended by a battery
and musketry. He was a volunteer with
Cochriane’s fireships at Aix Roads in
1808, and served with the Naval brigade
at Flushing in 1809. “Old Man
Biddulph” was Edward’s elder son, one
of the early boys at The King’s School.
In the early 1860’s he drove stock from
“Well, that's ONE less Christmas present I have to buy this year."
Maitland (N.S.W.) overland to an area
in Queensland close to where Biddulph
Henning was settling, and formed several
stations in the district before taking up
Birtley. His wife, wooed and won from a
tent on her father’s newly-formed station
in the same district, lived to reach the
century.
+> ❖ ♦♦♦
“North-5-West”; Wouldn’t like to
suggest a reason, but “Swilliam” (B.
5/11 /’52) is right off the beam when he
refers to alcohol-content of various
tipples. He interprets percentage “proof”
as percentage alcohol, whereas “proof
spirit” is really (in round figures) half-
and-half alcohol and water. A booze
running 20 per cent, proof therefore
contains only 10 per cent, alcohol. The
nomenclature is archaic and should have
been scrapped a century ago.
❖ ♦ ❖
“Cauboy”; Actors, generally speaking,
don’t like going on in a piece that violates
conventional opinion because they know
that their audiences, generally speaking,
don’t like to see them do it. Consequently
there was great excitement when it was
announced that Melbourne’s Little
Theatre proposed to put on “Power
Without Glory,” This was taken to be
a dramatisation of Frank Hardy’s novel,
but it wasn’t. It is a play by Michael
Clayton Hutton, and though it is socio-
logical in its subject-matter the author
had never heard of Hardy when he gave
it its title; it was put on in London’s
West End Fortune theatre long before
the novel made a stir in Melbourne.
❖ * ♦♦♦
“Dolmetcher”: If anyone says it has
happened before, then all I can say is
that the judge in the Auckland court
must have read about it. The case had
had not one redeeming feature, and when
his Honor passed a sentence of five years
no one in the court thought it excessive
—except the lagger. Bursting into tears
he howled, “I can’t do it. The last time
it v/as three years and it nearly killed
me.” Restraining himself from the
obvious retort —that the world would be
a better and far safer place had the lagger
not survived —the judge remarked silkily,
“Will you promise me to faithfully serve
three years?” “Oh, yes, your Honor,”
whined the lag. “Then in view of that
promise,” said the judge, “I will promise
you something. At the end of those
three years the jailer will see to it that
you faithfully serve the other two! ”
❖ ♦> *
“Pipes”: Having a quick-one in a San
Francisco waterfront-joint in ’45 I found
myself under the close surveillance of an
obviously merchant-navy stoker. Eyeing
the somewhat resplendent uniform of the
U.S. Mercantile Marine with some anti-
pathy, he asked “What does propeller on
thy arm mean?” I told him “engine-
room.” T\yo whiskies later the same
Liverpool voice queried “Hast got fire-
man’s ticket?” Being English-bom and
Australian-bred although serving with the
Yanks, I tried to avoid an argujnent by a
short answer, and gave him the affirma-
tive. He studied my hands for a while,
downed another whisky and then said
ponderously; “Coal or oil?” I told him
“oil.” He turned his horny hands up-
wards, studied them for a while and then
spat out: “Tha’s not a fireman —tha’s
bloody lamplighter!”
“Pat”: Dinner had been arranged for
a mixed foursome and the meeting-time
fixed at six o’clock. At four sharp the
other male, who works in a Government
department, ambled into my office and
said: “I’m on holidays, old boy, so I
came in ahead of the wife. Thought
you and I could grab a couple of drinks
before the rush starts.” I told him it
would be a good hour before I could
think of leaving. He was genuinely
amazed at my attitude. “The only
advantage I could ever see in a bloke
going into business for himself was that
he’d be his own boss and his time his
own,” was the public servant’s verdict.
Apparently he hasn’t found out yet that
today the employee is boss, and the boss,
who doesn’t know what a 40-hour week
is, works the extra time to feed and clothe
himself and family.
❖ ❖ ❖
“8.A.K.”: When our baker circulated
a honeycoated ultimatum —the labor
position was so acute that, very reluct-
antly, he would have to discontinue
deliveries unless customers co-operated
by placing a box on the front fence— -J
weighed the matter carefully. Was this
a velvet-gloved version of “or else” or a
genuine appeal from one in distress? I
decided to give him the benefit of any
doubt. Many people didn’t Result:
Those who refused have good bread
delivered into their hands; the day-old
“stiffs,” the doughies, the “King Alfreds”
and the misshapen loaves are tossed into
the boxes of the co-operators—who can’t
see what they’re getting till it’s too late.
It’s about time things got tougher for
some of the trades.
*> *> ❖
“Repip”: The New Australian bus-
conductor on the Palm Beach run was
a helpful fellow, calling out the name of
each stopping-place.. The fun started at
Dee Why Beach—“ Dee Why Bitch,”
“Collaroy Bitch,” “Narrabeen Bitch” and
so on up the coast. Now as surfing
Sydneysiders know, Newport —er —Beach
township is divided. The hotel is at a
stop on the Pittwater side of the main
road ; the main-beach shops on the ocean
side. The bus takes a loop down to the
pub, travelling half a mile or so to Pitt-
water and returning to rejoin the main
road a few hundred yards from the turn-
off./ What more logical than that New
Aussie should question thus a stranger
who requested simply “Newport”: “Sair-
tainly. You want first ze hot-’ell or
ze bitch?”
FRIDAY SPECIAL
“Their romance started, of all places, at a
bargain sale.” — Women’s paper.
Writers of mush love to prepare
The cunning matrimonial snare
In settings that are, oh! very romantic :
The poshest pub whose passion-pit
Is with discretion softly lit;
The swimming-pool on liner trans-
atlantic.
True luv will flower, one must assume,
Far quicker where the orchids bloom
Than by a bed of common phlox
drummondii,
Or at a moonlit barbecue,
In cushioned, gently rocked canoe ,
But surely never where they punch a
hundy.
Yet here were two, a cove, a gal,
Who scorned the lovely Taj Mahal,
The garden-party, or the magic case-
ment.
And all romantic gods defied
By falling flat in love inside
(It seems so queer) a busy bargain
basement.
On to disputed bra with grim
Resolve she held, then noticed HIM.
She yielded it, entranced, her heart a-
flutter.
Three pairs of socks he held on high,
Yelling—and then he caught her eye;
And to the salesman he could only
stutter.
A knock-down didn’t mean a thing
To them, with love awakening.
He just beheld her, and he was a goner.
His head and heart he straightway lost
And recklessly he scorned the cost —
Yes, you could say that he had tickets
on her.
How glad she was she went to town !
It’s certain that she marked him down,
Then snapped him up, owning no
slightest meekness.
Cynics may claim that from that store
They’ll get more than they bargained
for —
Well, if they do, now, can they claim
uniqueness ?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Still keeps going
when i he rest
have stopped’
batteries
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.. 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
EX4.i6
PERSONAL ITEMS
On leave in Melbourne, Major William
Sochon, who led the brigade of Dyak
headhunters in Sarawak during the Jap
invasion. The brigade was called the
Sumpiteers, from sumpitan, the Malay
word for the blowpipe from which the
Dyaks delivered darts tipped with poison
from the upas-tree of tradition. After
the Japs departed Sochon stayed on as
head of the Prison Department in
Kuching. The descendants of the head-
hunters whom Brooke, the White Rajah,
led against their fellow-headhunters until
he put headhunting completely out of
fashion in his vast domain of jungle and
mountain are now normally a completely
peaceful community. After furlough
Major Sochon goes to the job of head of
the Singapore Prisons Department.
A quietly pleasant chap, with an ex-
plosive laugh, Henry Basil Turner admits
to a love of roving. He started with a
trip to Cambridge, took on law there,
and was admitted to the Inner Temple.
Also he gained admission to a fishing-
fleet working in the North Sea, to most
of the countries of Europe, and into an
Italian jail, wherein he was herded by
IN FOR BRADFIELD
Musso’s musclemen. It seemed he was
settled in Parliament House in Sydney,
representing Gordon, when Adolf gave
him the chance of further roving. This
* i • + rmoon
with the 2/3 Battalion. Transferred from
a destroyer to a transport.during.the
evacuation. Turner a y ,
penence of seeing Bren-guns, lined along
the troopers rails, put paid to artannoy-
mgStuka. Followed a somewhat danger-
ous hike along t e o .
Sanananda; then back to Macquarie-
Stree i. » h » p e s ‘ote ro™g n«t
month, this time to Canberra , he having
won the Liberal nomination for Billy
Hughes s Bradfleld seat.
.... Uni , ; j octrA ,,„ r
Macne 1 : Having seen destroyer
Anzac s twin 4.5 m. quick- rer
something of the omniscient radar-contro
equipment which goes with em one can
imagine what they did to that quartette
of Commo guns which opened up on
her the other day in Korea. Mention
was made of the ticklish waters in which
the young cruiser was fighting. This
should not have worried Anzac’s driver,
nuggety Captain Galfrey George Gatacre,
overmuch—he being a navigation expert
who brought battleship Rodney’s 16-
inchers up to meet the Bismarck ; D.S.C.
for that, and a Bar to it for his staff-
work in cruiser Australia in the Solomons,
He is one of the two Australians who
have represented the Royal Navy at
cricket.
“M.”: Destroyer Arunta (an old com-
mand of Gatacre’s) has been recommis-
sioned, with her obsolete depth-charge
throwers replaced by the most modern
in anti-submarine unpleasantness. Her
new commander, James Ramsay, has
followed Gatacre in more than “old
ships.” Another navigating bird, Ramsay
was also in at the Bismarck hunt, with
a select seat for the operation—officer of
the watch in King George V when, with
Rodney, both battlers bore in fpr the
kill. Ramsay won’t need a guide round
his new address—he having just brought
sister-ship Warramunga back from a tour
of Korea.
Back in Australia, Sir William Jenkins,
a quizzical Scot who some years back
indicated his love for the soil when he
paid his own expenses to ken for himself
the inroads of erosion in these parts.
Medallist in agricultural chemistry from
Edinburgh University, he joined the
Indian Agricultural Service after service
in War I, to wrestle for quarter of a
century with soil-denudation and eventu-
ally to save large slices of Hindustan
from lifting towards the Arabian Sea.
The conversion of some four million acres
of desert into a lush cotton, wheat and
millet garden brought him a knighthood
in 1945. He retired a year later as Agri-
cultural Commissioner in Bombay.
S’William, met in Perth, is worried about
what soil-erosion could do to threaten
the stability of Australia’s agriculture—
but not so seriously as to prevent his
settling here.
Having taken about the same time as
Colonel Butler, his opposite-number in
War I, Dr. Allan Seymour Walker
has brought out the first of fou# volumes
of the Medical History of War, 1939-45.
Titled “Clinical Problems of the War,”
the volume covers medical and surgical
problems met in the late scrap. One-time
vice-president of the R.A.C.P., Dr.
Walker had opportunity enough for first-
hand study of his present subject. In
1940 he was in charge of the Ist A.G.H.
in Palestine, and after that was consulting
physician to the A.M.F. Before taking
up his pen he was lecturing in clinical
medicine at Sydney University, whence
came his M.D.
Raymond Le Fevre has the outward
characteristics of a diplomat—actually
he’s Professor of Chemistry at Sydney
University, and the other day, to a size-
able bag of degrees chemical, added the
H. G. Smith Memorial Medal for 1952.
Reader in organic-chemistry at University
College, London, when War II broke out,
he was sent east with rank of wing-
commander and the high-sounding title of
Scientific Adviser to R.A.F. Headquarters,
Far East Command. His first assignment,
he recalls with a grin, was to advise on
the site for an Asiatic latrine in Singa-
pore. Disparagement regardless, Le Fevre
did a solid job in the war, which took him
from West Africa to Cairo, from India
to the Burma-road and Malaya, and, in
a small craft, from Singapore just before
the surrender to Java and, finally, Fre-
mantle. He returned to his native London
to a high post in the Ministry of Aircraft
Production, where he was concerned with
the chemical properties of what came out
of gun-barrels and bomb-bay doors ; and
finished the war as head of the chemistry
department at the huge Farnborough
establishment, researching into such
diverse problems as combustion in jet-
aircraft and their lubrication and tyres.
He’s been in the Chemistry Chair in
Sydney for the past six years.
Retired from the City Mutual Life
after 43 years’ service in Victoria and
N. S. Wales, James Mahony, who was
agency-manager in Melbourne for many
years and assistant general-manager at
head-office on retirement. His fresh com-
plexion and brisk step belie his years.
The work of H. C. Pritchard over the
past three years has been, with good
reason, unsung. Now and then some
visiting atom-man has let slip a word of
appreciation which indicates that Prit-
chard’s efforts are by no means un-
honored. Chief superintendent of
Woomera rocket-range, Pritchard goes
back to the British Ministry of Supply
shortly. He will hand over to Dr. C. F.
Bareford, another distinguished British
scientist who has been handling the
Mullard Research Laboratories in Surrey
for the past six years. A physicist, Bare-
ford has been working for long on that
Mandrake gunnery and radar equipment
which has kept the British Navy’s fighting
efficiency unequalled.
The strain of flying upwards of 10,000
hours, added to a nasal complaint aggra-
vated by changing air-pressures, has
caused the voluntary grounding of flying-
doctor Alan Vickers, possibly for good.
Vickers has been in the game since 1929,
when Flynn of the Inland talked him out
of a post-graduate surgery course in
England and into the outback service.
A versatile cove—-pilot, navigator, radio-
and engine-servicer—Vickers has always
played down the dramatic side of his job ;
preferring, to a series of brilliant “saves,”
the engendering of a feeling of security
in the outback. He succeeded well
enough—station-men now know that if
they are really sick they can be in a
hospital bed possibly sooner than if they
lived in Brisbane. Now 51, Vickers will
remain in the service he pioneered. His
present concern is to find medico re-
placements for Charleville, Cloncurry and
Charters Towers.
“Uramao”: Between March-October
next year. New Zealand’s National
Orchestra^is to have one of her own
sons conducting—Warwick Braithwaite,
who, born in Dunedin, left those parts 35
years ago, since when he has become
one of the leading conductors in Britain.
Before Hitler started his discord the
Enzedder conducted the Berlin State, the
Hamburg and the Strasbourg Orchestras,
and he went to the Scottish National
Orchestra from the rostrum of the Sadler’s
Wells Opera. They work their musicians
hard in the heather country —in one
season Braithwaite conducted 150
concerts. The A.B.C. had him out here
in 1947.
Reckoning 43 years is enough, Percy
Gordon is closing his account with the
Commercial Bank, having been its g.-m.
since 1934. Something of a figure in the
bank’s figures—assets of £33 million have
been increased to something over five
times that amount under his stewardship
OUT TO GRASS
—Gordon is the doyen of Australian
bankers, and at present holds the chair-
manship of the Associated Banks of Vic-
toria, a post he’s had on three previous
occasions. Off shortly on a six-months’
tour of the C.B.A.’s overseas branches,
after which he will confine his figuring
to totting-up on cards issued by the Royal
Melbourne and Frankston golf-clubs.
Benjamin S. Heagney, °f Perth,
appointed a member of No. 3 Pensions
Entitlement Tribunal, is a War II Digger
who learnt the score the hard way-
soldiered with the 2/11th in the Middle
East, Greece and Crete, then three years
in a German p.-0.-w. camp. Chartered
accountant and qualified secretary, he s a
former assistant-secretary of the State
R.S.L.
SIR ALFRED DAVIDSON, drawn by
Frith in January, 1931, shortly after, as
g.-m. of the ’Wales, he had put up the
exchange-rate.
Found dead in his hut above the snow-
line on the Ingeegoodbee River, south of
Kosciusko, Charles Carter, hermit and
writer. Over 80 at the end, he had
not lived in a city since he contested as
an Independent a Sydney suburban seat
in the N.S.W. Assembly half-a-century
ago. He started wandering soon after
he left' school at Gisborne (Vic.), and,
except for his political venture, stuck to
the outback. His unusual Matilda con-
tained books of the classical philosophers,
scientists and historians; they lined
rough shelves in the hut where he passed
his last days, along with the MSS. of a
400-page book on political philosophy
which he had been writing for years and
constantly revising. He used to bring
his stores by packhorse every few months
from Jindabyne, living on his pension,
which he supplemented by catching wild
horses.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 63, Canon Percy William
Robinson. He served in some of Melbourne’s
most fashionable churches, as well as its worst
slums, and during the depression handed out
thousands of free dinners from the steps of
his church, St. Matthews, Prahran.
In Sydney, at 62, Henry Rogers, a Hawkesbury
Agricultural College man whose considerable
practical and financial knowledge of rural indus-
tries culminated with his appointment as a
commissioner of the N.S.W. Rural Bank in 1933,
where he was at the end. He left with the
first convoy, 6th Australian Light Horse, in
1914, left his horse behind in Egypt, transferred
to the 6th Battalion and won his commission
on Gallipoli; and a wound, later, at Pozieres.
In Sydney, at 81, Ernest Rudolph Holme,
since 1941 Emeritus Professor of English
Language at Sydney University. Educated at
the universities of Sydney, Paris and Berlin,
he had been a force in the English-teaching
of the Sydney institution for close on 60 years.
Kindly, approachable, he stretched his interest
in students beyond the lecture-rooms: he
went to Europe towards the end of War I to
help young Diggers into British and French
universities under the A.I.F. education scheme,
was in the van in the establishment of the
Sydney University Union, and was guide and
mentor ,of evening students, helping them form
their association.
In Perth, at 75, Old Digger Frederick Bateson,
who went to the Boer War from S. Australia
with the same contingent as Harry (“The
Breaker”) Morant, and served afterwards with
the Ist Commonwealth Horse. Bateson won
M.M. in France, and got into V.D.C. uniform
for Hitler’s war. Between and after the World
Wars he was a vigorous battler for Digger-
welfare, his work in looking after servicemen
in hospital earning him M.B.E. in 1950. At the
end he was State president of the South African
and Imperial Veterans’ Association, a member
of the R.S.L. State executive and of Perth
Legacy Club and a councillor of the Westralian
Historical Society.
At 82, in Sydney, Brigadier Samuel Renshaw,
ending 64 years in the good fight with the
Salvation Army. He was a chaplain in France
with Old Diggers.


THE PUP THAT GREW UP


ABORIGINALITIES
“Ville”; Although gambling is strictly
forbidden to the natives of New Guinea
and punished with jail sentences, their
i .vorite pastime is still a card game by
the name of Lucky, at which quite large
sums are won —and lost. The more
sophisticated Papuans introduced the
game to their N.G. brothers, who were
pigeons for the plucking, as the Papuans
proved adept at card-palming. Soon the
N.G, boys, in an effort to cut their losses,
were robbing each other right and left.
The authorities clamped down heavily,
but it was easier to hobble the wind.
When one gangling houseboy boasted to
me of his £l9 win the previous weekend
I warned him of the consequences should
"Bin just a plurry snob since boss gibbum old school tie."
a police-boy catch him. Pako grinned
widely at the sinabada’s innocence, and
his cheerful “Police-boy he in game, too ;
win plenty mun,” was an effective silencer.
* * * *
“Loulalo”; The cocky who kept an
eye on Mat and his mate (B. 5/11/ ’52)
had a wilier counterpart in a well-known
character in Victoria’s Western District in
the long-ago. He owned various properties,
all leased, mostly on a two- or three-
yearly basis, and the tenants could never
work out how he made up his mind
whether or not to renew an expired lease.
Sometimes an apparently good tenant
would be refused a renewal, while
another, regarded by his neighbors often
as somewhat thriftless, would obtain not
only the desired extension of tenure but
often unexpected improvements or privi-
leges as well. To any demand for an
explanation of refusal he would merely
reply: “I have my reasons.” One day a
farmer’s wife recognised the poor down-
at-heel old swaggie who came asking for
tucker. Then the pattern began to fall
into place as wives of disappointed tenants
remembered the shabby old tramp whom
they had denied a handout and to whom
they had been very curt. Many a genuine
tramp must have been overwhelmed at
the spate of generosity as district house-
wives strove to ensure that they didn’t
let the landlord go unrecognised and
unfed.
* * * *
“S.”': The full-grown cicada-larva, in
the state from which it emerges from its
hole to break out into the winged insect,
can be added to the list of frogs, snakes,
mice, birds and other astonishingly large
dishes consumed by the redbacked spider,
as described by K. C. McKeown. I saw
my specimen, sprawled feeding upon the
body of the cicada, at Norman Lindsay’s
property at Springwood (N.S.W.)
amongst a tangle of dry leaves in a hole
in the ground where the taps for the
garden-fountain are located ; and decided
not to turn on the fountain just at that
moment.
* * * #
The snake-lizard in the
Perth Museum (B. 5/11 /’52) is one of
several known families of lizards which
are gradually evolving into snakes, and
which support the theory that all snakes
originated from lizardlike ancestors.
Although rare, specimens of snake-
lizards have been found showing every
stage of transformation from typical
lizards with four well-developed legs to
snakelike creatures with no legs at all;
but these advanced specimens have
skulls, tongues, ears and eyes like
ordinary lizards. As the limbs become
smaller and less useful the body increases
in length, the spinal column grows
stronger and more flexible, whilst the
belly develops a set of shields to grip
the ground, enabling the creatures to
crawl instead of walk.
* * * $
“Laetitia”: The contention by “Bass”
(B. 5/11/’52) that Binghi, though able to
become vocifer-
ously distressed at
will, is inarticulate
in genuine grief
is unassailably
illustrated by the
big-time show-
manship which
always follows
the death of a
Torres Straits
Islands native of
some social ton-
nage. The entire
village takes part
in those wailing
ceremonies, which
usually last
through the whole
period in which
the bereaved rela-
tives are amassing
the supplies neces-
sary to stage a
death-feast com-
mensurate with
the status of the
departed. The
wailing is no hap-
hazard lamenta-
tion ; relays of
mourners work on
a roster system so
that at no point
can quiet occur. The duty-shift becomes
vocal at the signal of the m.c., backing
the abandoned dirge with tears which
would be more moving but for the fact
that, during their stand-down periods, the
mourners indulge in all manner of
hilarious pleasantries, and cast appraising
eyes on the dimensions of the tucker that
is being accumulated. When the stock-
pile is deemed sufficient the organisers call
a halt and the'mourners sit down to the
death-feast, which is designed to “take
all the sorry out,” and is the official end
of the mourning period.
“Mingari”: They stood on the side-
walk of the little nor’-west town, staring
vaguely around—an old, dusty, grey-
haired buck and a fat old gin, she carry-
ing their gear, he clutching a sugar-bag
with something heavy in the bottom.
Just to pass the time, Big Tom hailed
them from the door of his pub. Yes,
they’d just come to town, from “out
thataway,” said the buck, waving a hand
in the general direction of the eastern
States. Tom asked what the bag held —
and 30 seconds later his eyes were popping
at the richest samples seen in the West
since Paddy Hannan found the Golden
Mile. All the old buck knew was that
he found them “out thataway”—he
“Well, that’s the first time I’ve seen a tail Wag a dog."
couldn’t tell Tom where, but he could,
and would, take him there. It was a
week, however, before Tom could get his
syndicate organised and equipped for
what might be a trip of any duration —
and in the meantime the buck took sick
and died. But the gin said she knew
the way, and the party started. A fort-
night later Tom pounded back up the
main street on a camel straight to the
warden’s office, emerged half an hour
later and headed back again in a truck.
Two hours later there wasn’t a shovel
or pick, or even a mattock, left in the
hardware-store—and there was hardly a
man left in town, either, but there was
a mighty trail of dust along the road
leading inland and the warden’s clerk
had writer’s-cramp from making out
miners’ rights. Well, the show was a dud
—the gin had got rattled and didn’t know
where she was—and they were all home
again in a week or so, and only the Mines
Department and the hardware-store
showed a profit. But Big Tom’s eye still
lights up when he sees a strange boy with
a sugar-bag, and he often stands at the
door squinting up the track with a far-
away look in his eye. That’s what hap-
pens when the gold-fever gets a man—
it never lets go.
* ♦ * ♦
“Clooter”: All right, The Far Country
is set in the Victorian Kelly country (B.
19/11 /’52). I still say Shute’s man was
lucky, for in addition to 1.7 sheep an
acre, all cutting exceptionally heavy
fleeces, don’t, forget he got £4OOO extra
from lambs and cattle. And if those
Mansfield men averaged 18s. a pound in
1950 they must have held their bellies,
lambs’ wool, locks and pieces off the
market.
* * * *
“Murrundi”: I thought that joke-block
of the boy who, riding a tractor, yells to
the man next door on his horse-drawn
plough “I got it for me birthday!” (B.
29/10/’52) was a mild exaggeration of
the present trend of high spending on
youngsters till I met Joan last week.
“Cliff is a wonderful help to his dad
now,” she told me. “He’s so keen we
bought him a tractor of his own for his
birthday!” I could hardly believe this
joke-come-true, but true it is, and Cliff
was a sniffly five-years when I saw him
last. He must be all of ten now.
* * * *
“Kelms”: This winter a pair of white-
necked herons nested near my swamp,-
and for months I’d put them down as the
most sober-minded birds on the place.
They appeared to have one object—to
find food and eat it —and when they
weren’t digging gilgies or worms out of
the mud they were standing perfectly still,
up to their hocks in water, waiting for
something to turn up. The few times I
saw them on the wing I noticed they were
particularly graceful, and that their sft.
wing-span gave them a wonderful control
of their flight, but I assumed they flew
solely for the purpose of getting to and
from their feeding-grounds—until they
staged their ballet. They’d been feeding
as usual on opposite sides of the water
when, as though at a signal, they both
took off and flew towards each other.
They avoided a clash by a sudden graceful
manoeuvre, circled quickly and swung in
towards each other again. This time they
almost met, breast on, and both soared
straight up and over backwards. I lost
count of the convolutions, but I’m willing
to bet that there isn’t a bird in the sky,
not excepting pelicans, that could match
them for speed in turning in the air. They
wouldn’t be numbered among the hand-
somer birds, though when you look at
them closely there’s a surprising amount
of color in their plumage ; but their ballet
over the swamps was the most strikingly
pretty thing I’ve seen, and I’m wondering.
Do they know they’re graceful, is it a
courting display, or are they simply filled
with the joy of living and expressing in
movement what they can’t express in
song?
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”; Mat pushed out along
the Campaspe and encountered a man
named Robins. Said Mat, “Any work
goin’ round here?” Robins: “Well, I
dunno. Jack Hands wanted a man, but
that was about Easter an’ this is Novem-
ber, so he might ha’ got fixed up. Hold
on! Last time I saw Billy Hacks he was
wantin’ some fencin’ done. About a
mile an’ a half.” Mat said “Where’s his
place?” Robins indicated the empty
south-west. “Other side o’ the line,” he
said. “Y’ can’t miss it. Look, when y’
get there, will y’ tell Billy I got that
manure now if he wants it?” Said Mat,
suspiciously, “You owe him manure?”
“Yairs,” said Robins. “That was when he
told me about the fencin’. When he
brought it over. Gripes, time gets away,
don’t it? Must be nilly three months
ago. Mat picked up his swag and turned
north. “That ain’t the way to Hicks’s,”
Robins called. “Aw,” Mat answered,
“reckon I’ll make inter Echuca. Keep a
look out f’r me last year, I’ll come back
then an’ see how she looks.”
* * * *
“Bo”: Browsing through Thomas
Gray’s “On a Favorite Cat, Drowned in
a Tub of Goldfish,” I came upon the line
“Her conscious tail her joy declared.”
As, presumably, “conscious” can only be
taken to mean that puss’s rudder was
mobile, I can only assume that the poet
must have got a bit mixed in his inter-
pretations of the movements of his
domestic pets’ caudal appendages. The
hound’s moving tail does reflect his joy,
but a cat’s—no. Ever watch the furry
one while a wagtail is hovering just mad-
deningly out of its reach? Frustrated
anger is in every twitch of the tip of
Tabby’s tail. Any pleasure which the
usually unemotional feline family
demonstrates is reflected only in purring
and human leg-rubbing.
MAMAKU
Tire your hair, Mamaku, and lie remembering
The outward point and spin and glitter of
wheels that swing
Far swiftly past you, oh little yellow haunting
town . . .
And shall we, singing, Mamaku, to the pools
go down,
With moonlight at our heels, murmuring,
mocking,
Among the broad white blossoms, magnolia
rocking
In dark, divine and mazy ambulation
Full in the face of all the measured creation?
But here, Mamaku, oh bitterly different, quiet,
A dark, richly juvenile hedge; and, by it,
Wind-rippled pools; and, sultry after rain,
The floor and windows of the massive train.
High soft purple cuttings seem to fall
Fascinatingly into one’s being imperial . . .
And the reel and shatter and swift rebound
Of golden cuttings leaping from the ground
Into the eyes. All these things, Mamaku,
Will down the dark night make me remember
you.
And there’ll be fallen timber dry on the ground,
A thermal river gurgling round and round
With dull red banks and bright blue bridges
And auburn trees on little sandy ridges.
Tire your hair, Mamaku, and follow
Where lava mountains rise up in the hollow
And stride down gullies lit with lupin gem
Like striped robes from a prophet’s back, their
hem
All brown and red and yellow in the light
That down the broken gulfs and gorges fights.
Mamaku, Mamaku, a dozen miles away
Your sulphur-heaps rise mountainwise and sway
Through every daisied paean of the pines,
Staring red-stone-eyed,'at last, upon the railway-
lines.
Leaving you, Mamaku, I shall stare and wait
the hurl
Of cuttings and torrents and let fern-gullies
whirl
Rapidly and silently through my eyes again
Like wordless country waiting for green rain.
N.Z.
EVE LANGLEY.


“Shamuseen”: A well - outback
kangaroo-shooter lodged with his insur-
ance company a claim for the total loss
by fire of his utility truck. In similar
cases insurance companies had, rather
than incur the expense of sending their
assessors to inspect in such remote areas,
paid up without inspections. In this case,
however, the company’s representative
arrived at the head-station of the pro-
perty on which their client was shooting,
and expressed a desire to see the
remains of the vehicle. With the
insurance man on a horse borrowed
from the station and the client
riding his own hack, the pair set out for
the wreck, which the owner assured him
every few miles was “just a few miles
away now.” At length the assessor
climbed painfully from his mount,
tenderly stroked his hindquarters, looked
at the expanse of claypan unstudded by
any object, and remarked, “I can see the
crimson thing from here, and I guess we’ll
have to pay up.” “Good,” replied the
* shooter. “And I think you’ll find this
horse a lot more comfortable on the way
back.”
* ♦ * *
“The 0.D.”; That gang of “Sack-
fair’s” (B. 19/11/’52) that was misled
into believing a thunderstorm was com-
ing by hearing a lorry pass carrying an
empty lOOOgal. tank must have been
short on observation. Thunder isn’t a
one-spot sound ; it rolls around the sky
as though the gods were having a foot-
ball-match. You may swing a hand
vaguely and say “There’s thunder over
there,” but you can’t point a finger at
the spot.
♦ * * *
“Sackfair”: It was on a rural road in
Baulkham Hills (N.S.W.). About three
paces ahead of a stationary truck,
silhouetted in its lights, two figures
bobbed and bent and moved around in
spasmodic semicircles. On the ground
between them a dark figure appeared to
be fighting to regain his feet. I’m no
hero, but closer investigation was indi-
cated. At 30yds. the mystery was still un-
solved —and, to my horror, I thought I
detected the flash of steel in one man’s
right hand. Ten paces away I saw, with
great relief, what was happening, but the
mystery as to why it was happening re-
mained unsolved. Suddenly the chap with
the blade straightened up as though to get
the kinks out of his back. He saw me,
grinned selfconsciously, and explained:
“Just shearin’ my mate’s nanny ; nine ticks
we found in her a while ago, so I says:
‘Bring her out on the road and I’ll reef
the lot off in the headlights.’ First time
I ever shore a goat but —and ’struth!
she’s worse’n a dozen ‘cobblers.’ ” Feel-
ing somewhat foolish, I confessed; “I
thought someone was being murdered.”
The goat’s owner looked up. “Not mur-
dered,” he grinned. “Fleeced.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: An eastern States
company which makes a plastic insulating-
material has been searching through
W.A. for one of the chief constitutents of
its product, and has found it in a deposit
of diatomaceous earth. It’s also called
diatomite or keiselguhr, and under the
latter name it’s well-known as the sub-
stance with which nitro-glycerine is
incorporated to make dynamite. When
it’s dry it’s a whitish substance
rather like chalk but much lighter
in weight and more porous. It’s so fine
that it’s used as a metal-polisher, and also
for filtering such highly-refined articles as
sugar and beer ; and because it’s a poor
conductor of heat it is used extensively as
insulation for refrigerators, furnaces,
ovens and soundproof rooms. It’s com-
posed of skeletons of diatoms, which are
microscopic members of the algae tribe,
and make up a fair proportion of the
plankton in the oceans ; so, besides the
uses we find for it when it’s dead, it serves
as food for some whales and fish that
swim along with their mouths open filter-
ing the sea-water for food.
* * * *
“Rooster”: 8 The bullroarer (B.
12/11/’52) is associated with initiation
ceremonies in many parts of the world.
Prior to such ceremonies the youth of the
tribe have no social position. When
they show by the sprouting hair on the
face that they are attaining manhood,
they are usually secluded in a tabooed
spot in the bush, access to which is strictly
forbidden to the uninitiated. Sacred
emblems are displayed to the novices by
the masked divinities or elders of the
tribe, the items usually including the bull-
roarer, normally a thin, flat piece of
wood shaped like a willow-leaf, fastened
to one end of a piece of string, the other
end being lashed on to a stick. The
apparatus is whirled above the head, and,
according to its shape and size, makes
a peculiar humming noise. The move-
ment may be varied by violently lashing
it backwards and forwards, when it rises
to a siren-like shriek. The weird sounds
thus evoked from the bush terrify the
women and children, who regard them
as the voices of spirits. The secret is soon
learned by the young initiate, who is given
a bullroarer and warned never to show
ir to a woman or child on penalty of
death. These ceremonies were at one
time observed all over Australia, through-
out the greater part of Melanesia, as well
as in parts of Indonesia. Something
similar was also practised in places as far
apart as South America and Central
Africa.
* * * ♦
“Sturmer”: When I married, my
mother, defying custom and superstition,
gave my wife a knife —an old tableknife
whose flexible blade had tapered almost
to a point from years of wear —and told
her it would be a useful friend. It is,
and I pity those housewives who lack
such a knife. True, they can buy stainless-
steel table-knives that gleam against a
snowy cloth, but shrink from cutting a
piece of steak ; or a stainless fruit-and-
vegetable-knife, short and inflexible,
which is sharp enough for peeling, but
useless for any job requiring a flexible
blade. This old knife is a real all-
rounder: it will slice bread or meat, is a
good pastry- and scone-knife, is invalu-
able for running under omelettes, frying
“ You' re footfaulting again, sir."
sausages or bread, or under cakes to
remove them from the caketins, and for
cleaning the bottoms of pots and pans
that have “caught.” Why is it that such
knives are not made now? Is it that
people these days are concerned more
with looks than quality?
* * * *
“Kelvin”: Even more than for its
virtue as a provider of dry tinder in the
wettest weather (B. 29/10/’52) the
pandanus is prized as a building material
by the more primitive Torres Straits
natives. Though not as durable as
coconut-leaf, its foliage makes a neat-
looking weatherproof roof and walls for
village huts. The leaves are laced to a
framework of mangrove timbers, which
in those latitudes grow to a straight 20ft.
long. Pandanus leaves also furnish the
material for Binghi’s sleeping-mats, dilly-
bags and other household effects. The
fnm or nuts of the tree are also a good
tucker standby in the hungry tune,
* * * *
“C. Towers”: Funny things, whales,
Just recently, working five or six miles
off Redhead, on the N.S.W. coast, a
trawler skipper sighted a whitish, queerly-
shaped object sticking up out of the sea
a few miles away. This part of the ocean
“ He's very self conscious—he's got a rude Word on his off-side.”
having lately been rather thick with
amateur yachtsmen getting into strife in
their endeavors to sail round the world,
he decided to run over and investigate in
case a Good Samaritan was needed. It
turned out to be a large whale lying on
its back, apparently asleep, its tail curled
up and sticking into the air. The trawler
got within 100yds. before Leviathan
realised he was not alone, when he
apparently woke in great confusion and
plunged down to bury his embarrassed
head deep among the kelp. He was
sighted again about half an hour later,
once more flaked out on his back and
tail protruding from the waters. Yes, the
old whale’s a queer fish—or he would be
if we didn’t know him to be a mammal,
# #
“Kros”: Don’t see any need to bring
in “periodical visits from fearful comets”
to explain the origin of the salt lakes in
Westralia’s wheatbelt (B. 12/11/ ’52). The
arid and semi-arid interiors of every
continent contain salt lakes. Two 19th-
century investigators, Jamieson and
jLartet, proved that such lakes dated from
times of great expansion of glaciers,
(Australia, of course, has had its Ice
Ages.) Fluctuating climatic conditions,
cause of glacier-growth, are thus the
cause also of salt lakes. These changes
of climate can occur (very gradually, as
a rule) without violent irruptions from
outer space —so we need not worry about
any such future unwelcome visitors. Also
requisite for their formation is a large
river-system (perhaps now dried up) such
as “Olive Willey” noted in the vicinity of
Westralia’s lakes. When such a river-
system has no outlet to the sea, the
mineral salts carried away from the
mountains at the source, and from the
soil over which the rivers flow, are
deposited in inland lakes and seas.
Apropos, the salinity of inland lakes is
very different from that of the ocean.
“Old-timer”: We were out behind
Wintong (N.S.W.), about a million miles
from the nea rest pub, when Jimmy corn-
plained of his back. “It’s that saddle,” he
to|d the boss .. Never did suit me .”
LitUe Curl was ins , rU cted to change
saddles with Jimmy. Three days later
James had the bellyache. “It’s them
tinned apricots,” he told the boss. “Never
did agree with me.” The boss broke out
tinned cherries. Next day Jimmy had a
sore mouth. “It’s this terbaccer ; burns
me tongue.” The boss gave him a fresh
plug. Next morning James began:
“Couldn’t sleep. Paddy makes that tea
too strong and” But the boss cut
him short. “Look,” he roared, “you’re
crook. I know it. Everybody knows it.
But we’re stayin’ here till the place is
mustered. What’s wrong with you is
your thirst, an’ it’ll stay wrong unless y’
want t’ walk t’ Homebush. It’s twenty-
five mile, an’ you can give it a go if y’
like, but y’ ain’t takin’ one of my horses
an’ the publican don’t give credit. But
y’ can give it a go, y’ can give it a go.”
After that Jimmy was first out and last
back till the final straggler was in.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: “Brick E.” (B. 19/11/’52)
needn’t waste time chasing crickets to
find out how they keep their polish. The
ordinary cockroach lives in more dust
and dirt than any 10 crickets, but there is
no more immaculate creature on earth.
* * * *
Last of Cobb & Co.
“E.V.5.,” an old Westerner of the early
’nineties, listens more in anger than in
sorrow to a broadcast description of the
last days of Cobb and Co.:
The scene is laid in N.S.W., where, of course,
things might happen that could not occur in
Queensland.
Tom, a youth of 17, is filled with sorrow at
the approaching doom of Cobb’s coaches, so
resolves to make a journey on one of the last
runs to preserve a hallowed memory. A studious
lad, he, with noble aspirations.
The personal side of the story embraces, also,
Mick (or was it Paddy?) the driver, a type of
Irishman seen only on the music-hall stage,
whose language is confined mainly to “bejabers”
and “begorrah.” Additionally there are ostlers
(ye Olde English type), a few nondescripts and
porters; in uncouth Queensland we called them
grooms and yardmen.
The roads were long and blanky muddy, the
creek was high and blanky floody, so the best
team was hitched up. In the lead were Pegasus,
Burak and Bucephalus; wheelers were Carbine
and Phar Lap. Off they galloped, for black-
soil plains meant nothing to them.
When the creek, a banker swirling with debris,
was reached, Paddy edged them gently in. The
water rose higher and higher, Tom’s courage
sank lower and lower. Soon the team was
swimming. Then something happened—a horse
went down. The outlook was grim, but was
the bold Paddy dismayed? He was not,
bejabers! Lepping Blondin-wise upon the pole
he hacked at hame-straps and traces and slung
the collars round his neck.
Thus freed, the team reached the further
bank, neighing a few times, and quietly awaited
the coach manhandled across by the valiant
Paddy and his intrepid passengers.
It took but a moment to fix the damaged
harness and yoke-up again, and off they went,
hell-tb-split, for the mail must get through.
The sun came out, the road dried, and ding-
dong, ding-dong, they galloped along, up hill
and down. Uphill was bad, but the down
grade was so steep that the swingle-bars bumped
the wheelers’ rumps. As swingle-bars are kept
level with the' pole by the pull of the traces,
and fall downward when the trace is slack,
this phenomenon would have interested Newton
as a new feature in the law of gravity. Paddy
may have forgotten to tell us that on the up-
grade the horses’ rumps fell down to their
hocks —must have.
Approaching a punt-ferry Paddy swung the
coach sharply and pulled up all standing on
the punt. This creek they crossed without
incident, and soon arrived at their destination.
Tom had the trip impressed on his memory,
and now, 50 years later, he gives us this vivid
picture of the last days of Cobb and Co. Thank
you, Tommy.
THE MANTELPIECE
A wedding group of Mother’s,
Old buttons in a jar,
A photo of my brothers,
And one of grandmama ;
A vase with handle broken,
The clock that wouldn’t go,
A snap of Mother’s sister,
Who, though she’d never missed her,
To Mother hadn’t spoken
For twenty years or so.
Worn, faded books all dusty,
Our old brass candlestick,
Torn catalogues grown fusty,
Flies in the candle-wick;
Past envelopes and letters
All browned by time and smoke,
A ship inside a bottle,
A postcard of some wattle,
A print of English setters.
And a cut-out “Bully” joke.
A thimble and black cotton,
A wasp’s nest ’midst the books,
Cracked picture-frame, near rotten.
Pipe-cleaners from our chooks,
A lustre bright and shining
Of birds’-eggs in a box,
A wax doll, head half-melted,
Samples of metal smelted,
Quartz specimens from mining,
And Father’s undarned socks.
All in a merry jumble
Old Time would ne’er release . . .
And when one couldn’t mind things
Mislaid and couldn’t find things—
“ Why don’t you take a tumble?
Look on the mantelpiece!”
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


Do you like an
‘independent’ spirit?
t$ if
left
0
BEIXS
W hi
iiniMiiiiiuniv
nivimiKw (mu'"*
IVII'II
i"i 111/(111 im
Ici.iu** I*’ 1 *’
distillers scoj
HU11l*n(ll7.IUII' J .,
PRODUCT J r -
>llll| llllni,n..[, ( ,,n.MimlH<l t<
Our subject is whisky.
By which, of course, we
mean Scotch whisky. It is
generally agreed that
Scotland is the home of
good whisky. From
Scotland come all those
famous, world-known
whiskies.
To be precise, our subject
is one of the few remaining
independent
Scotch whiskies. In fact we
want to tell you about
ourselves. We are Bell’s,
independent distillers
since 1825.
Perth is our home town.
Whisky is our pride.
And, man, what whisky!
If you’ve a nose on you to
relish the subtle
smokiness of superlative
Scotch whisky; if you’ve a
tongue that can taste the
years of maturing; if
your palate can appreciate
the blending of many
distillings to make .
a perfect whole—if, in a
word, whisky is to you the
heart of the Highlands, its
barley-fields and peat
and moors, its glens and
tumbling burns—
you’re the very man for
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
cscf.
DISTILLERS perth SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED IB2f
Missing Friend
TO GEORGE HENRY GAMBRILL for-
merly of the Royal Australian Navy and
Sunshine Victoria but late of Auburn
New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife JESSIE ELIZABETH GAM-
BRILL has instituted proceedings against
you on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards UNLESS you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office
of the Supreme Court of Victoria in Mel-
bourne on or before the nineteenth day
of December 1952 and file an answer in
the said office on or before the tenth day
of February 1953 the case may proceed
your absence notwithstanding and you
may be ordered to pay costs. —JONES
& KENNEDY, Solicitors, of 213 Nichol-
son Street, Footscray.
imii
m
V '
\ " ''•. J
*
iss
CAPSTAN Special Mild
RED PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
Plain
PALE BLUE PACK
CAPSTAN Medium
Cork-Tipped
NAVY BLUE PACK
Business Rollery Etc.
Shares and Business
Reports are general of some
recovery in business during the
first few months of the current
financial year. The comparison,
however, is usually made with
the last half (January-June) of
1951-52. The average for the
whole of 1951-52 was probably
better than the present rate of
business activity in most indus-
tries, possibly excepting the
woollen textile trade, which was
hit badly early in the piece, being
affected severely by the slump in
wool prices before the Jan.-June
half of 1951 had ended.
Softgoods wholesalers, textile
cos,, hardware manufacturers
and distributors and even the
motor-trade have mentioned
improved business conditions
during the last couple of months.
The Sydney real-estate market is
also picking up a little. The
improvement may be seasonal in
some cases ; but it is quite likely
that some readjustment has
already been achieved in the
economy, and that a spirit of
more confident enterprise is now
appearing, especially as rates of
production (coal included) are
improving and the turn-round of
ships is speeding up.
Meanwhile effects of the sharp
change in financial conditions
during 1951-52 is being trans-
lated into profit and loss in the
accounts of many companies.
Felt and Textiles and its sub-
sidiaries showed a loss of
£473,577 during the last term
(compared with a profit of
£672,851 in the preceding
period), after valuing stocks at
£8,049,031 (£11,679,701 the year
before). No ord. dividend is
being paid. A number of other
(smaller) companies have shown
losses. But concerns holding
large stocks of wool have been
particularly vulnerable.
Trading conditions have been
especially severe in particular
industries, and concerns engaged
in them have suffered as a
general thing. In other cases
management has been tested and
found wanting regardless of the
type of business. Also, recent
bonus issues have been found to
have been overdone in some
cases, and the flotation of a
number of private concerns into
public companies has been
carried out on a basis too
generous to the vendors. Then
again there are new enterprises
which were formed with profit-
expectations based upon business
activity not only maintaining
early-1951 levels, but actually
going beyond them. They, of
course, have suffered sad disap-
pointment.
There are a considerable
number of newly-floated but old-
established concerns which have
fared very well during the
present business setback. John
Mcllwraith Industries (Mel-
bourne) has had excellent
figures; so has Frederic Ash
(Newcastle). R. B, Davies Indus-
tries (Sydney), though not so old
a business as the other two, has
also stood up to the recession
well. All three of these concerns
are in one end or the other of the
hardware business. Bearing
Services has had good results to
show.
With a new loan afloat, and
the interest-rate up to 4£ p.c.,
the sharemarket has been quiet
during the past week or two.
B. shares remain around
405., to return just oVer 4 p.c.;
C. £2O shares can be got at
£42 10s., to return 4.2 p.c. Tooth
scrip at 645. yields 4.7 p.c. Burns
Philp, which has reduced its div.,
can be bought into at 575. 6d.
Retail stocks are all weak. Yarra
Falls, leader in the woollen
textile industry, can be got at
38s. 3d.
In many cases there are oppor-
tunities for attractive buying.
Rights to new issues are usually
the cheapest way of acquiring an
interest in an expanding concern
these days.
“Was it a white or a black one?”
Drilling at Roma
“Petro”: A Press report states
that the Australian Associated
Oilfields No. 2 test-well reached a
depth of 1444 ft. on October 27
and that drilling was continuing.
By NoV, 10 it had reached
2241 ft.
It will be recalled that this
South Queensland bore was
located as an offset to Roma
Blocks’ No. 4 well after an
unsuccessful attempt to clean out
the latter. RBO4 (as it is known)
was drilled about eight miles
north of the town of Roma
during the first half of 1941, and
was abandoned, just above bed-
rock, at 3655 ft., on June 17 of
that year.
The drillers claimed to have
penetrated lift, of oil-sand be-
tween 3497 ft. and 3508 ft. and
other minor lenses below
3515 ft., but Mr. L. Ball (then
Queensland State Government
geologist) reported that “the
actual thickness of oil-sand
lenses penetrated by this bore is
9ft. 6in.; the top oil-horizon
being 24in. High-grade oil was
obtained, but not in commercial
quantities.”
It may be assumed, therefore,
that the first definite sign of oil
in RBO4 was encountered at
around 2400 ft. below sea-level.
No mention is made in the pub-
lished report on the drilling in
Associated Oilfields’ No. 2 bore
of the striking of a water-sand
corresponding to that en-
countered at about 100 ft. above
sea-level in RBO4, although
AO2, at 1444 ft., was some 400 ft.
below the depth at which water
was to be expected. This may
be due either to lenticularity,
which is characteristic of the
strata underlying the Roma area,
or to faulting, or both. The
available data strongly sug-
gest the existence of faulting be-
tween RBO4 and RBOI (drilled
in 1929-1930 a short distance to
the north-east). This lenti-
cularity and/or faulting may
lead to discrepancies between
the anticipated and actual re-
sults in AQ2 now drilling. Inci-
dentally, the behavior of RBOI
during drilling points to fault-
ing, and the nature of the oil
obtained from it —in measur-
able but not commercial quan-
tities —is characteristic of a fault
zone.
It is to be hoped that—in the
absence of commercial results
in A 02 —the Government will
not feel bound by the pledge,
given in 1949, by the then direc-
tor of the Bureau of Mineral
Resources:
It is definitely an oil-bearing area,
and the Commonwealth intends to
continue its investigations until posi-
tive results are obtained.
That, like many other politi-
cal pronouncements, was drawn
at a very long date,
Woodburn Minerals, Ltd.
Woodburn Minerals, Ltd.,
which is changing its name to
Titanium Minerals, Ltd., was
originally formed to acquire
from Rucon, Ltd., and Gold
Sands, Ltd., mineral leases and
the like covering 2000 acres near
Evans Head, on the north coast
of N.S.W., which are partially
equipped for production of
zircon, rutile and ilmenite.
About 180 acres was bored by
the Bureau of Mineral Resources
and G. H. and J. A. Watson
Pty., Ltd, This disclosed mineral-
bearing sands estimated to con-
tain 57,000 tons of mixed
mineral, assays averaging 4.3
grains goJd, 6.91 b. tin oxide,
48 p.c. zircon, 36 p.c. rutile and
14 p.c. ilmenite a ton. The
remaining untested area is
expected to yield additional pay-
able quantities of mineral sand.
At first it is proposed to
separate only the rutile from the
sands, leaving the remainder
available for retreatment at a
later stage. Rutile is the base
metal from which titanium is
made, titanium being much
lighter than steel, while being
equally strong, and is able to
withstand very high tempera-
tures. It is therefore in demand
for the manufacture of high-
speed aircraft and jet engines.
It is proposed to issue 120,000
shares of ss. each for cash, bring-
ing in £30,000, which will be
utilised as follows:
Completion of plant .. £19,500
Payment to vendor cos, in
cash as part consideration
for leases and plant to be
acquired .. .. •. 6,500
Brokerage, preliminary exes,
and contingencies .. 4,000
£30,000
In addition to the £6500 cash,
£12,500 in shares goes £B5OO to
the vendor cos. and £4OOO to the
mortgagees of certain items of
machinery. Paid-up capital of
Woodburn Minerals, Ltd., will
be £42,500. G. H. and J. A.
Watson Pty., the co.’s technical
managers, state that they estimate
that treatment of 5000 tons of
mineral sands a year (giving a
life of 11 years in the bored area)
would yield 1750 tons of rutile
p.a,, worth, at £55 per ton,
£96,250. Allowing £4OOO for
amortisation and £12,500 for
taxation, a net profit of £16,000
a year is spoken of.


Whv success of the
16th Security Loan
is important to you
Throughout Australia, Governments have adopted programmes of
developmental works, designed to increase power resources, to improve
transport, to irrigate and conserve vast areas of land, to open up new
territories, to provide adequate hospital and educational facilities, to make
life richer for every one of us.
These programmes call for large capital
expenditures, and the main source from
which they can be financed is public invest-
ment in Commonwealth Loans such as the
I6th Security Loan,
Unless the people of Australia are prepared
to invest in Australia, to lend more of their
savings to help finance essential works, our
country’s development will be retarded.
Money lent through the 16th Security Loan
will earn interest at 4J% per annum for
9 years. Repayment in full at maturity of
the amount lent is guaranteed by the
Commonwealth.
From the national and individual viewpoints
there has never before been an investment
more rewarding or more necessary.
Success of the 16th Security Loan is essen-
tial to Australia. There is an obligation on
all of us with money available to demonstrate
our faith in our country’s great future by
investing to the limit of our resources.
Banks, Savings Banks, Money Order Post
Offices, and Stockbrokers throughout
Australia are ready to receive subscriptions
to the 16th Security Loan. Your money
and help are needed.
IMPORTANT FACTS ABOUT THE 16fh SECURITY LOAN
INTEREST —Nine-Year Bonds and Inscribed Stock will
bear interest at
per annum, payable each six months. An Income Tax
rebate of 2/- in the £ of interest increases the effective
yield.
PURPOSE— The amount sought
is £20,000,000. All money sub-
scribed will help to pay for Public
Works and Services of the State
Governments.
SUBSCRIPTIONS Bonds are
available in denominations of £lO,
£5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO.
Minimum subscription is £lO of
Bonds or £lOO of Inscribed Stock.
Investors who already hold £lOO of
Inscribed Stock may subscribe £lO
or multiples of £lO for additional
Inscribed Stock.
INSTALMENTS —Subscribers may
deposit 10% and pay the balance
in one amount by March 2, 1953,
or deposit 10% and pay the balance
in three amounts, each of 30%, by
January 2, 1953, February 2, 1953,
and March 2, 1953.
REPAYMENT —Repayment in full
at maturity of face value of
Securities is guaranteed by the
Commonwealth Government.
WHERE TO APPLY— Any Bank,
Savings Bank, Money Order Post
Office or Stockbroker will receive
applications.


?r r
i
m
m
33-39 HUNTER ST.
SYDNEY.
Offices at;
WAGGA WAGGA,
TA MW ORTH and
ORANGE.
•
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73,000,000.
Have you chosen your Executor wisely ?
'X'HE qualifications of an Executor who can be
A depended upon to administer an Estate, efficiently
and economically, are many and varied. It is imperative
also that he should be immediately available, in good
health, and of sound judgment, when called on to act.
If you have already appointed a relative or friend,
you may be sure that he will welcome your suggestion
that you should appoint Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as Co-Executor. It will relieve him of a heavy
burden of responsibility.
There is an interesting and helpful booklet on this
important subject, “Your Executor and Trustee.” It
explains the services offered by the Company —and its
charges. ’Phone 80377, or write for a copy to-day.
DIRECTORS
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
A. Q. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager,
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEX FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Aust. Consolidated Industries, Ltd.
A.C.I. and Subsidiaries.!
, i Dividends Nomina
Net Pref. je-
june, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves
£ £ £ £
From inner reserves, £135,414 .. 4,590,01
48+ 4^> 320 15,750 8 p.c. = 358,899 4,687,68
Net unexplained additions, £97,446 4,785,13
Share premiums, £650,503.. ~ 5,435,6£
Exchange surplus, £79,433.. .. 5,515,06
49 542,435 15,750 9 p.c. = 423,949 5,617,80
Reserves capitalised, £789,577 .. 4,828,22
Less exchange adjustm’t, £11,599.. 4,816,62
Net unexplained add’t’ns, £95,289.. 4,911,91
50 599,673 15,750 9 p.c. = 444,060 5,051,68]
Exchange surplus. £417 .. .. 5,052,09
Share premiums, £146 .. 5,052,24
Profit sale assets, £4621 .. .. 5,056,86
Unexplained addition, £170,994 .. 5,227,85
51 704,078 15,750 9 p.c. = 603,877 5,362,31
Exchange surplus, £l3BO .. ~ 5,363,69
Share premiums, £895,620 .. 6,259,31
Profit sale assets, £18,787 .. .. 6,273,09
Unexplained additions, £375,381.. 6,648,47
o 2 833,374 15,750 9 p.c. = 644,227 6,821,87
M * Subject to intangibles, now £2,406,810.
i Deducting outside interests in profits and reserves
1 13 months.
This is one of the biggest front-ranl
industrial organisations in the Common
wealth. The vision and enterprise o
those in control, tariff assistance, shrewc
management, technical efficiency and an
expanding economy have combined to
set it there. The group consists of paren
(holding co.) and 32 subsidiary anc
associated concerns, whose operations
cover a score or more different trades
including manufacture of a wide variety o
glass products—the backbone of the busi-
ness-plastics, refractories, structural anc
fabricated steel and general engineering
etc. And activities spread throughout
the Commonwealth out over the Tasman
to New Zealand and north to Singapore
and Bangkok.
Post-war the story is one of rapid and
profitable expansion—earnings have
stepped along with the growth in plant
capacity, and expanding turnover has
taken care of rising costs. The div.
climbed by halting steps from p.c.
in 1944 to 9 p.c. in 1949 and has remained
steady since. Greatest benefit to share-
holders has been the issue of new scrip
on terms which, owing to the high
premium the old shares commanded in
the market, were in the nature of bonuses
to those on the register.
Over the seven years to June 30 last
paid capital increased by £3,119,075, of
which £789,577 was bonus scrip and the
balance cash, which also brought with it
£1,547,269 of share premiums. Proceeds
from the 894,448 new £1 ords. put
out at a premium of 100 p.c. in
August, 1951, were not enough to see the
big programme of development to com-
pletion. So a further 760,530 £1 ords.
were offered at a premium of 7s. 6d.
each shortly after the close of last
accounts. When fully subscribed and
paid, the issue will lift paid capital to
£8,540,838, on which an all-round 9 p.c.
will call for £768,675, or £64,699 less
profit than was claimed last term, when a
lot of capital was still represented by
assets which hadn’t either reached the
revenue-producing stage or developed full
earning-capacity.
Last term two of the subsidiaries made
losses totalling £19,745—0ne of them,
Crown Crystal Glass Pty., ceased produc-
tion because of rising costs and compe-
tition from overseas, and it is difficult to
say when it is likely to start up again.
Allowing for this loss and after setting
aside £625,393 (down £250,886) for de-
preciation and what looks like a generous
£1,119,127 (up £481,180) for taxation,
combined net earnings were £79,296 better
at £833,374. After handing the prefs.
their £15,750, enough remained to show
11 i l ?’ o' °4J average ord. capital as against
i,v 1 j- anc * P- c - back to 1948.
A f h r t o'7 C l IS oo? ards an unex Plained addition
ot ±3/5,381 to reserves (including the re-
serve for contingencies) and adjustment
from non-trading sources interlined in th
table. So the all-round 9 p.c. div. migh
have been a more comfortable matter tha
it looked.
T f le / / ear ’ s 1 total expenditure on fixe
assets (freehold, plant, etc.) was £2,510,000
—net growth was £l,BBs,97o—finance
mainly from the August, 1951, new share
issue;
Consolidated Balance-sheet Figures.
r> -j . 1950. 1951. 1952
Paid capital .. £6,875,511 £6,884,625 £7,780,30
Outside interests* 60,018 61,333 75,57
WW 3ft V ~ 1,074,265 1,569,17
Sundry credxtors \ . g „ y 1,315.101 1,922,01
J ’ ’ * 958,555 1,681,68
Final divs. .. 246.743 335,543 342,23‘
FreehoM .. 1,987.237 2.283,988 2,890,13
Plant, etc. .. 2,847,743 3,290,168 4,569,994
Shares, etc. .. 1,127.568 1.254.644 1,329,09
Stocks ~ .. 3,836,140 4,407,070 5,920,843
Debtors .. .. 1,457,798 2,102,349 2,870,82
Bonds, cash. etc... 375,344 126.677 126,496
Intangibles .. 2,416,871 2,419,968 2,396,810
Inter-co. balancet 66,165 106,868 88,678
Including proportion reserves, t Due to differences
1 in balance date.
To help meet the year’s additions to
stocks (up £1,513,773) and book-debts
(up £768,475) the co. went to its bankers
for an extra £494,906 and leant upor
sundry creditors, etc,, for an additional
£606,916. The July, 1952, new share-
issue is to be used partly to lighten the
overdraft and partly to finance continued
development.
Since the close of accounts sales of
glass containers, tableware and flint glass
have tapered, but are expected to pick up
later on. Other sections have con-
tinued to sell their full output. The new
Christchurch (N.Z.) factory is just coming
into production, and another new glass-
works at Bangkok (Thailand) is well on
the road to completion. The Singapore
factory, which began operations in 1948,
is expected to have “another successful
year.” Also, in the near future, Aus-
tralian Window Glass Pty. is to rebuild
its large sheet-glass furnace at Sydney.
With the big programme of development
nearing completion new share-issues are
likely to become more widely spaced,
and it will be some time yet before the
enlarged group develops its full earning-
capacity.
At 435. 9d. (41s. a month ago) the f.-p.
£1 ords. give an immediate return of
4.1 p.c, on a 9 p.c. div. basis. On the
same basis the 10s.-paid contribs, at
28s. 9d. would yield 4.3 p.c. when fully
paid. Net tangible cover is 31s. 3d, per
share. The well-protected prefs. seldom
appear on ’Change.
Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co.
‘-Dividends—To Be- Ee-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1948.. 134,665* 5 14 81,159 53,506 424,524
1949.. 143,535* 6 14 83,023 73,492 490,036
From depreciation res., £31,222 . . 521,258
Freehold revaluation res., £189,692.. 710,950
1950.. 212,925* 5 14 83,023 129,902 840,852
Eeserves capitalised, £130,500 .. .. 710,352
Tax underprovided, £747 .. .. 709,605
1951.. 317,799* 5 14 168,763 149,036 858,641
Proceeds revalued assets, £45,638 .. 904,279
1952.. 394,914* 5 14 341,380 53,534 957,813
* After providing for possible fall in stock-values,
£175,000, 1948; £25,000, 1949 ; £200,000, 1950;
£200,000, 1951; £lOO,OOO, 1952.
It was an eventful year for this highly-
successful and well-handled 18-year-old,
and another eventful one is on its way.
Outstanding features last term were ex-
pansion by absorption and otherwise and
change in trading conditions toward and
since the close of accounts. Now it is
proposed to buy the available scrip in
Olympic Cables, Ltd., of which more
will be said presently.
Early in the term Beaurepaire Invest-
ments (paid capital £375,000), and with it
two operating subsidiaries (Beaurepaire
Tyre Service Cos. and Olympic General
Products Pty.), was taken over for £498,750
(in scrip). Also £495,177 of cash-paid
ord. capital (balance of a par issue in May,
1951) was gathered, raising issued capital
at June 30 to £2,726,195 in 250,000 £1
5 p.c. prefs., 19,945 ss. employee anc
2,456,250 ss. ords.—divs. on the employee
shares are limited to 6 p.c, p.a.
Helped by the new Brisbane tyre
factory, the parent’s output and sales for
the year notched another record. After
setting aside £261,924 (up £84,792) for
depreciation and a generous £500,000 (up
£50,000) for taxation, the net result was
£494,919 (down £22,880) —operating costs
were more buoyant than turnover. The
net figure includes £lOO,OOO (£200,000 in
1951) sent to a special stock reserve
making it £700,000, or 20 p.c. of book-
value (which is the lower of cost or
market price) of stocks at June 30 last.
The £494,919 was enough to pay the pref.
and employee divs. (together £13,697) and
show 19.1 p.c. on ord. capital as it stood
at the close of accounts.
But profits earned by the recently-
acquired subsidiaries were retained by
those cos. Combined net earnings (again
including the special allocation to stock
reserves) were £623,860, or enough to pay
pref. divs., etc,, and show 24.8 p.c. on
ord, capital, thus making maintenance of
14 p.c. to the ords. more comfortable still.
The financial position improved:
Parent’s Accounts Only.
, 1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. 720,857 720,857 1,730,333 2,724,210
Overdraft .. 826,485 658.051 2,248.151 641,981
Creditors .. 215,176 216,794 598,902 487,929
Tax provision 90,332 278,000 473,000 810,925
Final divs. .. 44,122 44,122 117,418 190,938
Freeholds, etc. 198,565 490,000 676,624 737,127
Leaseholds .. ~ 1,460 1.398 1,04 x
Plant, etc. ~ 291,745 419,585 668,622 707,561
Stocks* ~ 1,355,657 1,299,128 3,665,841 2,891,978
Debtors, etc. 504,052 496,439 952,736 895,697
Shares in sub-
sidiaries, etc. 44,969 52,114 61,224 580,392
After deducting the special provisions shown at
foot of introductory table.
Including lax provision but not shares in
subsidiaries, etc., the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£1,655,902) was £474,796 stronger.
The fresh cash-paid capital and surplus
earnings, etc,, together with net reduc-
tions of £773,863 in stocks and £57,039
in book-debts, were used mainly to slash
£1,606,170 off the overdraft, reduce the
amount due to sundry creditors by
£110,973 and add £99,799 net to fixed
assets.
The Cable Co. netted £105,499 (up
£5066) for the year to June 30 last, of
which pref. requirements and 14 p.c. to
the ords, took £77,438. Reserves (book-
value) totalled £144,288, and the inner
strength is known to be substantial. Its
capital structure, the amount already held
by the Tyre Co. and the balance for
which an offer is now mada are as
follows: —•
£1 Pref. Shares. ss. Shares.
i 1 A 5% B 5%"' "e * Total.
t. £ £ £ £ £
Issued, amount 100,000 100,000 5331 690,228 895,559
Held Tyre Co. 8,477 9,110 63.055 80,642
Balance .. 91,523 90,890 5331 627,173 814,917
* Employee.
The Tyre Co. is offering three of its own
f.-p. ss. ords. for every two available
£1 5 p.c. prefs., and share for share for
the employee and ord. scrip. On the basis
of current dividends and market price of
the scrip in the two cos., the prefs. can
see a capital gain of 4s. 2d. per £1 share
and a small fractional gain in the divi-
dend, as well as an equity in the future of
the combined undertakings. Still, some
holders of Cable prefs. might have pre-
ferred the option of taking similar prefs.
in the Tyre Co.
A 100 p.c. conversion of available
Cable shares would involve an issue of
2,803,637 new ss. ords. in the Tyre Co.,
and lift its paid capital to £3,427,104 in
250,000 £l5 p.c. prefs,, 25,276 ss. em-
ployee and 3,151,828 ss. ord. shares. On
that lot pref. requirements, etc., plusi
14 p.c. to the ords., would call for
£455,273. After eliminating returns from
inter-co. holdings, combined net earnings
of the two cos. last term were £629,359.
Recent developments, however, suggest a
drop in net earnings for the current term.
Australian tyre output for Sept, last was
only 53 p.c, of average monthly output
for the first half of 1952.
At 13s. the Tyre Co.’s ords. return
5.4 p.c. on a 14 p.c. div. basis. The
Cable Co.’s ords. recently sold at 12s. 9d.
The prefs. in both cos. are priced at
18s. 4d. or thereabouts.
David Jones, Ltd'. (Sydney)
r~ Dividends —>
Ist 2nd
Net Pref. Pref. Ee-
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7-J p.c. Ordinary. serve
£•£.£, £ £
1943. .159,020 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 81,000 1,045,8
1944. .159,814 9000 18,750 10 „ „ 81,0001,096,8
1945. .163,929 9000 18,750 10 „ „ 81,0001,152,0
1946. .207,630 9000 18,750 10 „ ~81,0001,250,9
Eeserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO ..1,150,9
1947. .233,315 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 91,000 1,265,4
1948. .276,960 9000 18,750 12£ „ ' ~113,750 1,400,9
1949. .221,039 9000 18,750 10 „ „ 95,000 1,499,2
1950. .291,169 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 95,000 1.667,6
1951. .388,145 9000 18,750 10 „ ~106,375 1,871,6
1952. .280,270 9000 18,750 10 „ ~140,500 1,983,6
* Excludes workers’-compensation reserve, £ 53,5 f
1951.
This is Sydney’s biggest departmen
store. Operating from three larg
attractive and well-placed shops in th
heart of the city, the co. handles a wk
variety of imported and locally-mac
merchandise, ranging from fickle higl
grade fashion - goods to househo]
appliances and builders’ hardware,
number of decentralised workrooms anc
factories and three subsidiaries also con
tribute “substantially” to net earning
The subsidiaries are Selby Shoes (Aust.
Ltd., whose Commonwealth-wide tun
over exceeded £717,000 last term; Mar
borough Distributors, Ltd., an offshoo
of the co.’s clothing-manufacturing in
terests, also with inter-State connections
and St, James Tobacco Distributors, Ltd
which operates throughout N. S. Wales
That the slip in last term’s net earning
(down £57,875, or 17.5 p.c.) was not mor
pronounced suggests, among other things
that stocks —for the most part, at any
rate —comprised saleable lines that wer
conservatively valued in the books. Cer
tainly official restrictions on oversea
buying, together with some help from
the banks, did a lot to mitigate reper
cussions from the previous spate o:
imports, which was followed by consumer
resistance and a trek toward lower-pricec
goods, while costs remained buoyant
This combination of easing prices, rising
costs and a cautious public expressed itseL
in a sluggishness of trade during the last
half of the term. And since wholesalers
and retailers both found themselves over-
stocked, and short-term credit tightened,
there was some price-cutting in the pro-
cess of working down inventories to meet
current trade commitments and/or
obtain capital to restock with cheaper and
more readily-saleable lines.
Over the full year, however, the co.’s
turnover (amount not stated) showed a
“substantial” increase; but costs (mainly
wages) gobbled the gains, and more
besides. After valuing stocks at a “con-
servative” figure, allowing for deprecia-
tion (£43,703, down £38,961) and taxa-
tion (£300,869, down £296,473), and send-
ing £30,000 (down £42,000) to the staff
fund, the cautious board put net earnings
at £280,270 (down £57,875). That was
enough to pay the pref. divs. (together
£27,750) and show a satisfactory 17.9
p.c. on ord. capital, as against 29.1, 27.7,
19.1, 27, 22.5 and 22.2 p.c. back to 1946.
So there was no difficulty in maintaining
the div. at 10 p.c., which, with few excep-
tions, has been an annual event since
1906.
Another satisfactory feature is that the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£1,655,583)
increased by £82,763:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £1,350,000 £1,759,070 £1,805,000
Mortgages, etc. .. 503,333 503,333 503,333
Sundry creditors .. 1,601,279 3,120,863 2,745,362
Tax reserve .. 343,647 597,340 300,869
Final divs. .. 61,375 72,750 84,125
Freeholds .. 1,669,963 1,778,681 1,856,823
Plant, etc 278,964 290,802 289,794
Shares subsids. . . 42,003 42,4)03 47,463
Advances subsids. 96,834 145,151 241,901
Stocks . . . . 2,332,949 3,829,154 3,460,106
Book debts .. 1,054,917 1,446,594 1,543,319
Cash, etc. . . 104,223 446,213 43,946
The strong cash holding at the close of
accounts in 1951, following a par issue


LAKE VIEW AND STAR
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FINAL DIVIDEND No. 74
NOTICE is hereby given that the
directors have decided to recommend
at the Annual General Meeting of
the Company to be held on December
10, 1952, payment of a Final Divi-
dend of ONE SHILLING AND SIX-
PENCE per share sterling in respect
of the year ended June 30, 1952, less
United Kingdom Income Tax at
NINE SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
in the £, (EIGHT DECIMAL POINT
FIVE FIVE PENCE per share), the
net amount of Dividend being NINE
DECIMAL POINT FOUR FIVE
PENCE per share sterling.
This Dividend makes a total dis-
tribution of TWO SHILLINGS AND
SIXPENCE per share sterling for
the year ended June 30, 1952.
Subject to confirmation at the
Annual General Meeting, the Divi-
dend will be paid on December 11,
1952. to all shareholders registered
on the books of the Company at the
close of business on November 17,
1952.
The Transfer Books will be closed
from 18 to 20 November, 1952, both
days inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of Divi-
dend will be calculated at the rate
of Exchange ruling on November 17,
1952.
FOR LAKE VIEW & STAR LTD.,
R. J. AGNBW, Attorney.
FIMISTON, November 11, 1952.
.OPES
of every type
and
size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
th e well known
"JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x ins.,
61 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
In all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
sd
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan j*g;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304 - 306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attorneys,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Aus-
tralian and Overseas Patents and Trade
Marks. — Advt.
Public Notice
I, ZAIGA GRAUDS, of Latvian nation-
ality, born at Riga, Latvia, resident three
years in Australia, now residing at “Ezis,”
7 Tangerine Street, Villawood, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
She took a cruise
..But
missed
the Boat
i
HI
-
m
mi
./*.A
'■■;■■■■■■■
m
THIS TRIP'S A TAKE. WHERE'S
* THE ROMANCE THE
TRAVEL FOLDER PROMISED
I OUGHT TO GET
MY MONEY
BACK !
BE FAIR. JUDY, YOU )
CAN'T BLAME THE
BOYS FOR STEERING
CLEAR 0F... BAD BREATH
NEXT PLACE WE
DOCK. YOU SEE
A DENTIST.
r
1
e
JUDY SEES A DENTIST
f COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
\ CLEANS YOUR BREATH
f WHILE IT CLEANS YOUR
TEETH AND THE COLGATE WAY]
) OF BRUSHING YOUR TEETH
[RIGHTAFTER EATING STOPSj
. TOOTH DECAY j
iIIK best!,-
iate[
fhanfc
to'
c¥ e ,
Qefi'* 1
\ I FIXED MY BREATH THE
COLGATE WAY... AND NOW
ROMANCE IS HERE
TO STAYIy ■ ■
- TS
/!■
Tests Published in Authoritative Dental Literature
Show That Brushing Teeth Right After Eating with
COLGATE DENTAL
CREAM STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Most thoroughly proved
and accepted home
method of oral hygiene
known today.
Yes, and two years’
research showed the
Colgate way stopped
more decay for more
people than ever before
reported in dentifrice
history! No other
dentifrice offers such
proof the most con-
clusive proof ever re-
ported for a dentifrice
of any type.
AMERICA’S LARGEST, AUSTRALIA'S LARGEST,
THE WORLD’S LARGEST SELLING DENTAL CREAM
USE COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
>S TO CLEAN VOUR BREATH
/ WHILE YOU CLEAN YOUR TEETH ,
V' AND HELP STOP TOOTH
DECAY BEST
icciS
Buy the
Big Family
Economy Size
DB/182
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LTD.
turn
1
WJtl
952
7
Bank serves many large con-
cerns to which its strength, its wide
connections and facilities, its
financial experience and compre-
hensive service are essential
requirements.
The Bank also serves many people
with modest accounts, who find life
easier when their banking problems
are dealt with efficiently.
All customers, large and small,
enjoy the same personal attention
to their requirements.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
of 455,000 new £1 ords., placed
the co. in a favorable trading
position. Together with the
year’s surplus earnings and allow-
ance, and a net reduction of
£369,048 in stocks, it enabled the
previous year’s tax bill to be
paid, £375,501 to be clipped off
the amount coming to sundry
creditors and £193,475 to be
added to debtors’ balances, in-
cluding advances to subsidiaries.
They are all encouraging and
apparently healthy movements.
At the moment the back-
ground of trade and industry
is beset by numerous cross-
currents, which make prediction
more than usually difficult. A
period of overbuying is mostly
followed by one of saturation
and underbuying until demand
builds up again. Already there
are indications that the worst of
the drift has passed, though m
the fight to maintain turnover
competition will be keen and
profit-margins narrow. Ugliest
feature is still the wage-cost
structure, though it has lost some
of its former buoyancy. Every
addition of Is. to the basic wage
costs the co. about £9OOO p.a.
All told there is nothing to sug-
gest that the 10 p.c. is likely to
be disturbed.
At 375. (425. a year ago) the
ords. return 5.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. At 235. 6d. the 6 p.c.
first and p.c. second prefs.
yield 5.1 p.c. and 5.9 p.c. respec-
tively. Net tangible cover is £25
ss. Id. firsts, £l4 1 Is. seconds
and 48s. 3d. ords.
Caesar Fabrics, Ltd. (Syd.)
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. serves.*
£ £ £ £
Share premiums, £30,997 .. 47,445
1949.. 10 p.c. =18,478 68,737
Unexp. additions, £lO6B .. 69,805
1950. . 10 p.c. =22,500 106,898
Net unexp. additions, £223.. 106,621
1951.. 848 625 10 p.c. =22,500 158,344
Added intangibles, £3 . . 158,341
1952.. 30.030 3750 8 p.c. =lB,OOO 166,621
* After deducting intangibles (now £711).
A multitude of difficulties, finan-
cial and otherwise, beset impor-
ters of piece-goods and textile
manufacturers during the 12
months to June 30 last, and
many were unable to write the
p. and 1. balance on the right
side of the ledger. That this
26-year-old, in which the public
became interested in 1949, was
able to earn more than enough
profit to pay its pref. div. and
8 p.c. to the ords. is, among
other things, indicative of the
quality of the control.
Chief source of earnings is
three lines of Manchester cotton-
fabrics for which the co. is sole
importer and distributor in Aus-
tralia. Other activities include
importation of additional cotton
piecegoods, operation of a small
woollen and worsted weaving
mill, set up during the 1930’5,
and two small subsidiary cos. in
Adelaide —Caesar Fabrics (S.A.)
Pty. and Herald Clothing Co.,
Ltd. —which also continue to
operate at a profit.
Here is the broad overall pic-
ture as the chairman paints it:
The year has been one that has
been full of problems. The financing
of accelerated overseas shipments was
made difficult by the credit restric-
tions at a time when demand was
declining and heavier stocks had to
be carried. These conditions -of ex-
treme financial tightness continued
from the third quarter of 1951 almost
through to the end of the financial
year.
The overstocked position of
some traders led to price-cutting
in certain lines. Still, import
restrictions and help from the
banks checked further deteriora-
tion in market conditions, and
the co.’s turnover was within i
p.c. of the previous year’s figure.
After “writing down all stocks
to conservative market-values,”
and allowing for depreciation
(£2367, down £549) and taxation
(£10,489, down £47,529), the net
result was nearly 60 p.c. short
of the previous year’s at
£30,030 (down £44,818). It was
enough to pay the prefs. their
5 p.c. and show a wink over 10
p.c. on ord, capital as against 33,
26.2 and 21.5 p.c. for the three
preceding years. The woollen
section made a trading loss of
£7676, due mainly to stock re-
valuation. Net tangible assets
exceed paid capital by £166,621.
To carry more stocks (up
£271,417) and help customers
over their difficulties (book-debts
increased by £162,802) the co.
went to its bankers for £134,821,
added £160,418 to the amount
coming to trade creditors, etc.,
and drew upon cash, etc., for
£148,840;
1950. 1951. 1952.
£> £ £
Paid capital . . 225,000 300,000 300,000
Overdraft . . 134,821
Loans .. 65,715 127,469 137,200
Sundry creditors 378,992 190,650 351,068
Tax provision.. 39,000 60,000 24,520
Final divs. . . 11,250 11,875 19,875
Freehold . . 11,344 14,410 14,457
Plant . . 31,912 32,768 33,104
Stocks . . 490,171 478,492 749,909
Debtors, etc. . . 288,310 172,135 334,937
Cash, shares, etc. 4,618 150,538 1,698
Intangibles .. 697 708 711
There was an improvement of
£7889 in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£419,060).
Since the close of accounts
stocks have been “very sub-
stantially” reduced, customers’
liquidity has shown signs of im-
provement, and so have profits.
Sti|l, operating costs remain high
and competition keen, so pro-
nounced improvement in net
earnings is not to be expected.
At 245. 3d. (345. early in 1952)
the £1 ords. return 6.6 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is 345, lOd. The prefs. are
all held by the M.L.C.
The Austral N.Z. Deal
Shareholders in Austral N.Z.
Mining, Ltd. paid capital
£211,750 in 210,000 £1 ords. and
35,000 Is. deferreds, which rank
after the ords. for capital—will
welcome the news that the assets
and liabilities of the undertaking
have been sold to Austral Amal-
gamated Tin, Ltd., for 132,560
of the latter co.’s f.-p. ss. (stg.)
shares valued at 10s. (stg.) each
for purposes of the deal. Both
cos. are in the well-handled
Austral Malay stable, which,
excepting the N.Z. one, is a
group of very prosperous
Malayan tin-dredgers.
The parent and prospecting
co., Austral Malay, Ltd. (paid
capital £50,000 in 10s. shares),
owns all the deferreds and figures
as a secured creditor for approxi-
mately £N.Z.87,000 in the N.Z.
co. In full satisfaction of this
debt, and for waiving all rights
pertaining to the deferreds, the
parent is to take 90,560 of the
132,560 Amalgamated shares.
The other 42,000 are to be dis-
tributed among holders of the
N.Z. co.’s 210,000 £1 ords., one
for five—fractions are to be sold
for the benefit of those entitled
to them.
Before announcement of the
deal, buyers on Sydney ’Change
offered 4s. 6d. for the N.Z. co.’s
£1 shares and 245. 6d. for Amal-
gamated’s ss. scrip. Thus, for
shares which originally cost £5
those on the N.Z. co.’s register
will receive scrip worth 245. 6d.
on the market, plus prospects of
regular and satisfactory returns
from their new holding. The
N.Z. co. had never paid a div.,
and, to avoid further losses, its
3,500,000-c.y.-per-annum electric
dredge ceased digging auriferous
gravels on the Clutha River
(N.Z.) in January, 1952. Mean-
while the machine has been
largely dismantled and crated,
and world-wide efforts to sell it
failed to attract any other buyer.
Besides the shares to be issued
to the N.Z. co,, Austral Amal-
gamated will also offer those on
the register at December 10 a
further 311,240 new ss. stg.
shares at 10s. stg. each (12s. 6d.
Aust.), one for five, thus lifting
its paid capital to £463,800 in
f.-p. ss. shares. The additional
money is to be used to complete
dismantling, transport and r©-
erection, etc., of the dredge at
Puchong (Malaya). With two
dredges at work the life of the
Puchong property will b© short-
ened from 16 years to about 9\
years, operating costs per c.y.
are expected to be reduced to
the benefit of net earnings, and
some now - marginal ground
might become payable. Net
earnings will depend largely
upon the course of tin prices,
costs and political developments
in Malaya. During 1952 "the co.
has paid divs. totalling 3s. 6d. per
share. With the old scrip at
245. 6d., rights to the new issues
have a theoretical value of
approximately 12s.


Women's Letters
/HIE LIEU LIEN IE
It is 70 years since Y.W.C.A. was
founded in this city strangely
enough, by a man. In 1882 Mr. Race
Lewis invited a dozen women to a meet-
ing in his home, and from that has
sprung the organisation which today has
1110 voting members and 2840 associate
members, 13 clubs, dozens of branches
and educational classes, seven hostels,
holiday home at Seaford and many other
activities. First general-secretary was
Sarah Booth, and the first country branch
was formed at Echuca in 1884. In 1896
Y.W.C.A. launched its education classes,
which in the intervening years have
greatly expanded in scope.
The modern girl belonging to “Y” in-
dulges in judo and fencing, as well as
the better-known sports, there are co-
educational classes, square-dancing anc
other recreations, but the spiritual needs
of the girls is kept well to the fore. Mrs.
T. C. Rentoul; president of Y.W.C.A.,
has announced that the popular general-
secretary, Meysie Law, is leaving to take
up a similar position in Sydney, and on
December 8 she will be given a farewell-
party.
☆☆ . ☆
Mrs. Rupert Downes, who after many
years as a member of the national coun-
cil of Red Cross has resigned, was guest-
of-honor at Red Cross Headquarters at
an afternoon tea which was attended by
Lady Brooks. Among those who paid
tribute to the work done by Mrs.
Downes, who had represented the Papua-
New Guinea division on the council, were
Professor Peter McCallum, chairman of
the council, Mrs. G. G. Scantlebury, vice-
chairman, Sir John Newman Morris and
Mesdames R. T; A. McDonald and H. F.
Creswick. Mrs. Frank May has been
elected in place of Mrs. Downes.
☆ ☆ *
The garden of Yallambee, the Upper
Hawthorn home of Sir Owen and Lady
Dixon, was the setting for a Christmas
fair, proceeds of which go to the English-
Speaking Union, of which Sir Owen is
president. Toys, babies’ and children’s
clothes, flowers, fruit, American novelties,
gadgets, cakes, sweets, tinned goods,
costume jewellery, cutlery, etc., found
ready buyers. There was a Santa Claus,
the Fun of the Fair and Shetland-pony-
rides for the children.
☆ ☆ ☆
Many hours of patient work went into
the making of gay paper-blossom which
decorated St. Kilda Town Hall for the
annual ball of the Royal Victorian Col-
lege of Nursing. The stage was trans-
formed into a spring garden in which a
pretty girl rested under a colorful
umbrella. Novelty paper hats added to
the fun and funds of the college, and
Mexican sombreros and Chinese coolie
hats were among the styles on sale.
President of the college, Catherine Dos-
setor, received the official guests in a
gown of coral-pink chiffon. Ball chair-
man was Mrs. A. V. Woodward, gowned
in black crepe, while secretary Roma
Herm danced in silver-grey taffeta em-
broidered with tiny flowers.
Among the guests were Mr. A. E.
Coates and Mrs. Coates, she wearing
royal-blue crepes embroidered with match-
ing sequins; matron of the Children’s
Hospital, Mrs. L. W. Sechiari, in silver-
grey satins and a pale-mauve chiffon sari
stole; the lady superintendent of the
Alfred Hospital, Miss M. J. Hanna, who
allied black Chantilly lace and crepe ; the
lady superintendent of Royal Melbourne
Hospital, Miss H. D. Gray, and the
matron of Prince Henry’s Hospital, Miss
A. H. Morgan ; Mr. Michael Chamber-
lain, representing St. Vincent’s Hospital,
and his wife ; Miss M. Connor, secretary
of the college, in black velvet. The
matron-in-chief of the R.A.A.N.C., Miss
E. Bowe, wore a black lace bolero over
the steel-blue blouse which topped her
black crepe skirt. Jean Crameri wore
wine satin, and Betty Jeffrey rose-pink
taffeta. Margaret Cuthbert’s pale-blue
satin was starred with silver flowers.
Judith Rush floated on a froth of white
organdie.
# # #
Former lady superintendent of the
Alfred Hospital and also principal matron
of the A.A.N.S., Lydia Shaw gave up
these important posts to become the wife
of John Athol MacKellar, son of the
late Mr. and Mrs. G. S. MacKellar, of
Chatswood (N.S.W.). Lydia, who is the
eldest daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs.
C. R. W. Shaw, of Melbourne, wore
an ice-blue crepe jacket frock with a
wide black baliibuntal-straw hat trimmed
with black roses. Matron-of-honor was
Mrs. John Snell, whose dusty-pink crepe
frock had bead embroidery on the bodice
and her large beige straw hat was finished
with black roses. Geoffrey MacKellar,
of Baan Baa (N-S.W.), was best-man.
Wedding was at Toorak Presbyterian
Church and reception at the War Nurses’
Memorial Centre, St. Kilda-road. Lydia
and her husband will make their home at
Pymble (N.S.W.).
☆ ☆ ☆
Scouting for talent. Garnet Carroll and
Kenn Brodziak discovered Mary Parker
at the Little Theatre when she was appear-
ing in ' her first stage role, in “Castle in
the Air.” They thereupon engaged her
to play a leading role in “The White
Sheep of the Family,” a comedy in which
popular English star Edwin Styles has
the leading part. The comedy will have its
A ustralian premiere at the Princess. Mary
is a daughter of Captain and Mrs. C. A.
Parker, of Kew, and her brother, Lieut.-
Commander Michael Parker, is now aide
to the Duke of Edinburgh. Photo by
Aztec Services, Ltd.
V' # #
* Tommy Trinder’s new Tivoli show, “By
Request,” is not only gay and amusing
but is notable for the lovely costumes
worn by the Celebrity Singers and the
ballet. In the opening number the latter
wear gowns of aqua-blue satin with the
redingote skirts lined with frills of rose-
pink tulle, and Gainsborough hats of
black velvet, lavishly trimmed with aqua
and rose ostrich-feather plumes. The
most attractive gown worn by members
of the Celebrity quartette is of black
velvet, with bright pink satin sashes,
which, worn over one shoulder, match
the long gloves. Sighted in the first-night
audience were Mrs, S. Aarons, Mrs. John
Carrodus, the Luke Mcßriens, Mrs.
Margaret Saker, Mrs. Don Hutchison,
Mrs. Norman Lynch, Mrs. F. Stewart,
the Norman Sprys and Dr. and Mrs. W.
McDermott.
☆ ☆ ☆
An old Melbourne Grammar boy,
Harold Badger, Junior, studied for three
years at the Royal College of Music,
and in 1951 took the prize for composi-
tion. Later he was assistant conductor
with the Ballet Rambert and also con-
ducted for various opera companies.
Now, back home, he has gathered to-
gether the Melbourne String Ensemble
and under his baton they will give their
first concert in the Assembly Hall on
December 4. Ruth Farren Price, who
last year was winner of the Concerto
Festival, will be solo pianist. Booking is
at Allan’s, Collins-street.
☆ ☆ ☆
For the birthday-luncheon she gave for
Mrs. Con Curtain in her East St. Kilda
home Mrs. John Langley wore an ice-
blue pleated frock. The guest-of-honor
matched her hat, with its deep-lime
ostrich-feather trimming, with her corded-
cloth suit. Guests included Mrs. P. L.
Coleman, whose turquoise-blue frock was
worn with a buttercup-yellow cloche;
Mrs. Constance Day, in black linen frock
and white lace straw bonnet; Mrs,
Russell Langley, who had a white cloche
to go with her white waffle pique frock ;
Mrs. H. Jacobsen, her parma-violet
feather chapeau, posy and gloves all in
the same tonings and contrasting with her
black faille jacket-suit; Mrs, Roy den
Honeyman, who wore cinnamon-brown
frock and beige satin hat; and Mrs. M.
Edsell, of Sydney, who teamed a beige
woollen frock and small matching straw
hat.
SYDNEY
The Young Marrieds who arranged the
Midsummer Night’s Dream party at the
Pittwater home of the Ashley Bucking-
hams did all the catering for the 350
guests present and did it remarkably well
(the salads were highly commendable).
A good idea was the spaghetti which
could be eaten with a hot tomato-and-
cnion sauce or a meat-bolognese sauce
and with or without grated cheese. The
cold roast beef was of correct rarity.
One could see that the cook-book has
not been idle since these young marrieds
got married.
Hostess was daughter of the house and
president of the committee, Mrs. Jerry
McMurtrie, whose dress was candy-pink
organza with big puff sleeves. Mrs. Len
Plasto was in pink shantung, pleated and
tucked. Mrs. David Stewart Dawson
wore a vivid striped blouse with a black
skirt. Only pedal-pushers to be seen were
the horizontal-striped and tapered type
braved by Mrs. John McCall Power.
Mrs. John Robinson looked cool and
slender as a lily in printed cotton. Pretty
Muriel Jackson came with fiance Peter
Heath. Valerie Ilett and Jackie Graves
were among the many young lovelies
present. Party was in aid of the Sub-
normal Children’s Association.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was interesting to meet Miss Ellen
Mary Dibbs at the Annual Meeting of
the Queen Victoria Homes —at 89 she is
the oldest surviving member of the
original council. Miss Dibbs, who is the
daughter of the late Sir Thomas Dibbs,
said, with a humorous smile, “They put
me on the committee right at the begin-
ning. I was treasurer with Harry Levy,
but really I wasn’t much good at it. He
did all the work.” Her interest in the
homes has continued throughout the
years —from 1897 —although she retired
from the council nine years ago.
☆ ☆ ☆
You won’t recognise this pretty English
girl when you see her playing the part
of Mrs. Adamson in “Macadam and Eve’’
at the Metropolitan, for Jean Anderson,
who is 24, doesn’t mind concealing
glamor if she is to portray a middle-aged
woman. During the 18 months since she
came out from England Jean has acted
with the Sydney University Dramatic
Society, but this is her first part with the
Metropolitan. In England she studied at
the R.A.D.A. and played with The Com-
pany of Ten at St. Albans.
& & #
Culture seems to have Woollahra well
and truly in its grip these days. More
than 300 people turned up for the open-
ing by Mrs. Gregory Blaxland of Frances
Burke’s exhibition of color and design
in textiles which is current at the Art
Centre. Dressed in an elegant, if
assorted, way, they clustered and roamed
in the spacious rooms of that handsome
house, approving the 11 new designs on
display and deploring Sydney’s bad taste
in the* past, “Shadow-tissue” really got
a thrashing—everyone agreeing that it
was quite “the end” —which seemed
rather sad, for shadow-tissue had its day
once.when it was considered quite avant
garde. Frances Burke, contriver of the
stimulating designs on display, comes
from Melbourne, where she also makes
and markets her furnishing fabrics. She
is quite a person, vital, intelligent, attrac-
tive to look at and brimful of ideas. Her
fabrics should shortly be on the market
here.
☆ ☆ ☆
As a tribute to the late Roderic Quinn,
Mrs. Lucy Cassidy will today present a
book to his old school, Marist Brothers,
Darlinghurst. It is the Life of Caroline
Chisholm, by Margaret Kiddle, and has
been autographed by more than 200 well-
known Australians, including Mis*
Dorothea Mackellar, the late “Flynn of
the Inland,” and the Minister for Educa-
tion, Mr. R. J. Heffron (who had the
book specially bound). Mrs. Cassidy says
that it has taken her several years to
collect the signatures.
☆ ☆ ☆
American-teas (you bring a gift and buy
a gift) are proving a godsend to early
Christmas shoppers, at present —one
suspects that quite a few of last year’s
Christmas gifts are going into the pool,
but it all means that some good cause
benefits. At the American-tea arranged
by Mrs. G. Tosi and Mrs. A. B. Ruther-
ford in aid of the Lady Mayoress’s Relief
Fund there were some really lovely things
for sale, not the least attractive being the
jars of rice which sold for two shillings.
During the afternoon a reading of Paul
Gallico’s “Small Miracle” was given by
Miss J, W. M. Eaton.
☆ ☆ ☆
Recently it was reported here that the
Black and White Ball had raised “more
than £2000” for the Royal Blind Society.
Well, this seems to have been rather an
understatement, for it was so much more
than £2OOO that when committee members
had contributed approximately £22 it
reached the £3OOO-mark. This handsome
sum was handed by Mrs. Laurence Byrne,
president of the ball committee, to the
president of the society, Mr. Justice Max-
well, at a cocktail-party during the week.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the annual dinner of the English
Association, held at the Union Refectory
on Thursday, the president, R. G.
Howarth, paid a tribute to the late Pro-
fessor E. R. Holme, who died during the
week. Professor Holme was, he said, the
real founder of the association. Chief
speaker at the dinner was Archbishop
Eris O’Brien, followed by Miss Florence
Earle Hooper, the oldest active member
of the association. In her beautifully
melodious voice Miss Hooper reviewed
the minutes of the association from its
beginnings and made what could have
been a very dreary subject into something
humorous and gay. Other speakers were
Mr. H. Oliver and Mr. David Campbell,
who had come from Canberra with Mrs.
•Campbell for the dinner, Beatrice Davis
was present, just returned from her trip
abroad, poet Rosemary Dobson, the
Douglas Stewarts, Miles Franklin, Joyce
Shewcroft, Nancy Keesing, with Ameri-
can Professor Arlim Turner on his way
through from Perth, Mr. and Mrs. A.
Russell and Fulbright scholar M. L.
Williams with Mrs. Williams.
fr ☆ ☆
The Gladys Moncrieff polio appeal got
away to a good start with the evening
party in the grounds of the Sam Lands
home at Point Piper. There must have
been nearly 1000 people present and more
than the same number of pounds taken.
The swimming-pool in the centre of the
broad tree-lined lawn at water’s edge was
a pleasant setting for a concert by stage
and radio personalities and of a fashion-
parade by Frank Mitchell, whose beach
clothes included straw skirts, rope and
coffee-beans on burlap, tinkling bells for
anklets and many tapered shorts, pedal-
pushers and slacks (if they can now be
so called). Mrs. Sam Lands wore a dress
of printed Sea Island cotton with one
short sleeve and one shoulder bare.
Chinese jade (a lively green softer than
emerald) was most outstanding color
worn. Among its devotees were Averil
Trenerry, Jackie Schloss, Bettina Welch
and Maggie Fitzgibbon.
☆ ☆ ☆
When Dan Clyne, M.L.A., opened the
new Baby Health Centre at Miller’s
Point on Saturday he mentioned that
infant mortality had decreased from 103
per 1000 in 1903 to 25 per 1000 today,
and that this was due largely to the work
of such centres. Representing the De-
partment of Health were Dr. Grace Cuth-
bert Browne, Dr. Anne Henderson and
Dr. Pulleston Jones. Presiding was Lord
Mayor O’Dea (these centres are built
partly by the Government, partly by the
local councils). Opposite the Garrison
Church and built in the modern bright
pale colors, the new centre presents a
striking contrast to the old one next door,
which is venerable only for its antiquity
(said to be 150 years old).


OLIND A—V ictoria
“BIRCHLEIOH” —Children’s Guest House.
Children 6-9 years during school holidays.
Other times any age. Spacious gardens
with adequate equipment and supervision.
School near-by for long-term bookings.
HISSES FRASER —Telephone Olinda 80.
FRENCH
Corn Curel
Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
Anthony Horderns’|
Record This Happy Christmas
Eumig, 8 m.m., F 1.9, -with
in-built exposure meter, £7l
ON FILM
Keep a permanent record of family events on
glorious colour or black and white movie
film. And in years to come, relive each thrill-
ing moment with the ones you hold most dear.
Let Esdaile’s help you select the camera that’s
best suited to your needs. Let Esdailes advise
on Projectors too, from the extensive range
in their new “Photo-Floor.”'
Remember —Trade-ins and Mail Orders are
accepted on any models.
E. ESDAIIE & SONS PTY. LTD.
42 Hunter Street, Sydney. 8W8631
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Emil and the Detectives”
Sixteen child-actors and more
than 20 adults' rejoiced in this
one-and-three-quarter-hour romp
for children at Sydney Mercury.
Emil (Graham Hill) is put on
the train for London by his
widowed mother (Zelle Gordon)
with £7 safety-pinned inside his
pocket to give to hisi grand-
mother (Minnie Love). But in
the train the Man-in-the-Bowler-
Hat (John Barker) gives him a
peppermint knockout-drop and
escapes with the boodle.
Emil awakes just in time to
see the villain leaving; he fol-
lows him to a teashop, and out-
side the teashop enlists the sup-
port of a gang of town boys
who, organised by the Professor
(David Ferraro), and using the
password “Sexton Blake,” trail
him to room 61 of the Ensign
Hotel and ultimately secure his
arrest in the bank and his trial
in the police-court.
A full-house of mostly chil-
dren gave the piece a deservedly-
enthusiastic hearing, since Kaest-
ner’s play and the acting were
smooth and sincere; the pro-
duction, by Leila Blake, went
without a hitch ; and the 11 sets
by Robin Lovejoy, confectionery
things, were charmingly done —
the scene in the train, with the
characters bobbing upland down
on the seats, was quite a triumph.
>£*
Newcastle Players
The festival drama season
presented by Newcastle W.E.A.
drama group in its studio-
theatre was fairly successful and
unusual for Newcastle in its
diversity and length. It ran for
six weeks, with at least two per-
formances a week. The basic
offerings were three local one-
act productions: “Supper for the
Dead,” “We Got Rhythm” and
“The Red Velvet Goat.” The
selection of this trio was open
to criticism. “The Red Velvet
Goat” was the only one which
made good entertainment.
The productions proved at
least that Adrian Borzell, direc-
tor of the group, has a promis-
ing team and is developing it
soundly. “The Red ’Velvet
Goat” showed his production
skill at its smoothest, a slight,
enjoyable comedy, a scene lifted
from Mexican village life by
Josephina Niggli, which bounced
along gaily with Robert Lloyd
Jones well cast as Esteban, the
villager who wants to own a
goat, and Barry Lovett outstand-
ing as his son.
“We Got Rhythm,” described
as “a socio-illogical extrava-
ganza” by Norah Ratcliff, aims
at awaking political conscious-
ness but merely reports the
apathy of British workers at
election-time. It seemed noisy
and mechanical beyond its
mood. Ailsa Carpenter, as the
confused, rather bitter, and
exceptionally-weary spirit of
patriotism, gave the most credit-
able performance. Her charac-
terisation was undoubtedly
helped by one of the astonish-
ingly apt masks most of the
players wore. Hers was that of
a bag-jawed and ageing woman.
Robert Lloyd Jones, much hap-
pier as a Mexican, tended to be
over-theatrical as the idealist.
“Supper for the Dead” is Paul
Green’s “tragedy” of a swamp-
woman in southern U.S.A. who
brings in a conjure-woman and
the conjure - woman’s two
daughters to help solve the mys-
tery of her own daughter’s
death only to find that her hus-
band had raped and drowned
the girl. Vivienne Mearns gave
an excellent performance as
Old Queenie, the conjure-
woman. Her cackling incanta-
tions over a bowl of fuming
witch-brew were splendidly
done. Doreen Pearn and
Robert Rolleston were efficient
as the swamp-woman and the
husband, while Ailsa Carpenter
and Janet Stewart, in skin-
hugging red costumes, kept up
an incredible serpentine wriggl-
ing as the witch’s daughters.
Costuming and make-up were
generally good in the trio, but
the group is handicapped by lack
of a stage and adequate facili-
ties, and there was little more
than the compensation of inti-
macy in performing on the same
level as the audience.
-» * ❖
Kylie Tennant’s Play
Kylie Tennant’s Jubilee prize-
winning play “Tether a Dragon,”
given an airing by the A.8.C.,
had pace, tension and capacity
for remaining intensely interest-
ing: virtues which it may well
retain in the full-length version
for the stage.
The theme is Federation —
dramatised in the battle of wits
between Deakin and William
Lyne; with lobbying in Lon-
don, a bit of love-interest
among political secretaries and
some surprising moments when,
in the onset of his nervous
breakdown, Deakin hears the
ghost-voice of David Syme. The
diverse material makes a
dramatic plot without undue
sacrifice of historical accuracy,
and the dialogue sounded crisp,
pithy and authentic.
Deakin, well portrayed by
Kevin Brennan, is a fine stage
character: adventurous and
humorous but always dignified.
The villain of the piece, Wil-
liam Lyne, seemed unnecessarily
savage, a defect not so much of
his lines, perhaps, as of Ron
Whelan’s interpretation.
In spite of the number of male
voices in the cast, individual
characters were always easily
identifiable: for which the credit
should go to Paul O’Loughlin
as producer.
❖ ❖ ***
“Lottie Dundass”
The Eros Players made a good
fist of their third production,
Enid Bagnold’s study of a girl
whose grandfather had been a
great actor, but whose father
was a mad murderer, Lottie
wants to act; she gets her
chance when leading-lady and
understudy of a touring com-
pany are missing. But at the
last minute the understudy
arrives; Lottie strangles her in
the dressing-room, goes on and
is a great success.
Valerie Newstead did well,
avoiding bathos in her emo-
tional tantrums; Raymond
Bushby made a choleric pro-
ducer and Ruth Bentley handled
admirably the unsympathetic
role of Mrs: Dundass. The stage-
sets might have been less clut-
tered —at times the performers
hardly had room to turn. At
the Y.W.C.A., Sydney.
+> ♦> *+♦ /
Beethoven Festival
Queensland Symphony Or-
chestra rose to the greatest
heights of its career with a
Beethoven festival given over
four programmes: Six of the
nine symphonies, the fourth
piano concerto, the violin con-
certo and a smattering of the
overtures and dances. Henry
Krips brought to the entire
series that spirit of humility so
necessary for the conductor of
Beethoven. The musicianship of
Harold Williams, Ronald Dowd
and Betty Tredennick, and the
impressiveness of the huge
Queensland State and Municipal
Choir in its fiendishly difficult
share of the chloral symphony.
❖ ❖ ❖
Berg
In the tenth and final of the
1952 subscription concerts at
Melbourne Town Hall Eugene
Goossens conducted three frag-
ments from “Wozzeck,” the
opera by Alban Berg. It is about
a German soldier who gets a
girl into trouble and then places
himself at the disposal of an
Army doctor, who uses him for
purposes of scientific experiment
and demonstration for his
students. His ill-conscience, the
doctor’s and the girl’s, his suicide
and the girl’s are epitomised in
simple scenes such as where the
girl is reading the story of the
Magdalen in the Bible while she
rocks her baby’s cradle.
It is all expressed in atonal
music, without melody and
only shapeless orchestral color.
It would seem to be the worst
possible medium for illustration
of such a subject, but somehow
or other Berg puts it over.
Goossens, with the aid of Elsa
Haas’s expressive soprano,
painted an extraordinarily mov-
ing picture.
It came after the Symphony
No, 3 of the appropriately-
named Piston, an American
composer who artfully contrives
to alternate passages of pure
melody with orchestral uproars
that sound like an atomic-bomb
explosion.
Civic Symphony Orchestra
With the very laudable object
of encouraging appreciation of
good music among trade-
unionists, the A.L.P., in conjunc-
tion with the Civic Symphony
Orchestra, staged its inaugural
Workers’ Symphony Concert at
Sydney Town Hall on Saturday
night. It was a resounding
success.
Haydn Beck, the conductor,
presented works which inevit-
ably make an instant appeal.
He included one modern piece,
the “Simple Symphony,” of
Benjamin Britten —it was the
composer’s birthday. This
charming little work, however,
has an air about it of classical
grace blended with modernism.
The pizzicato of the second
movement was done with admir-
able precision and balanced tone.
The chief offering of the night
was Beethoven’s Symphony
Np. 5, given a vigorous reading.
The work of strings, French
horns and woodwinds in the
development section of the open-
ing allegro was playing of a high
order, and reflected the artistic
progress made by this organisa-
tion since its inception. Paucity
of brasses deprived the final
movement of the necessary full-
ness of martial proclamation.
The soloist in Tshaikowsky’s
Piano Concerto No. 1 was Igor
Hmelnitsky, whose bravura
style suited this spectacular work.
Melbourne’s first Music for
the People concert of the sum-
mer season was transferred to
the Princess Theatre from the
Botanic Gardens, the latter site
being largely under water. A
good time was had by all,
especially during the playing by
the Australian Symphony
Orchestra under Hector Craw-
ford of Haydn’s Toy Symphony,
written after Haydn had bought
toys for the penniless children
in his district. The discovery
was made that Percy Grainger
was not the first composer to
introduce exotic instruments
into an orchestral ensemble. Six
members of the orchestra played
severally on a toy drum, a tin-
whistle, a cheap trumpet, a
tweeter and other instruments
obtainable at the children’s
counter in any emporium in the
city. Yet the result was music.
Talkies
“The Turning Point”
Another of the crime czars
who directs his booze-and-bet
ting empire calmly and ruthlessly
from his lavishly - appointee
suite; another lofty-minded
Commissioner of Investigation
complete with his T.V. cameras
(oh, what Hollywood owes to
Senator Kefauver!); and oJ
course the crime-reporter. Ye
this opus at Sydney Prince
Edward is well above average
The plot has feasibility, anc
Edmond O’Brien as the commis
sioner and William Holden as the
crime-reporter use restraint with
telling effect.
The reporter, a friend of the
commissioner, finds out that the
latter’s father, a police-officer, is
in the crime-czar’s bag. The
qzar knows that the reporter
knows, and, fearing a double-
cross, he gets the cop bumped-
off in a cleverly stage-managed
phony hold-up. The hired
assassin is treacherously
murdered to lend verisimilitude,
and the dead policeman looks
like becoming a posthumous hero
until the reporter uncovers the
dark deed. When his father’s
delinquency and murder are dis-
closed to him the commissioner
puts the heat bn the empire, till
the goodies inexorably triumph
over the baddies.
♦♦♦
“The Hour of Thirteen”
Scotland Yard was never so
good as in the costume and
manners of the 1890’s ; for the
murder-mystery was born in a
hansom-cab ; and this mystery,
in which the smart society-thief,
Peter Lawford, has to find a
murderer to avoid being charged
with murder himself, is a
beautiful revivification of the
times; there is a murderer
sticking policemen with a sword ;
and Roland Culver’s hard-
polished Kitchener-like Scotland
Yard magnifico ; there are deli-
cate stratagems when Lawford
looks like being caught with the
emerald; and there is the en-
chanting and spirited Dawn
Addams to be worthily loved
and nobly renounced. At Sydney
St. James.
❖ ❖ ❖
Tea for Two
To all intents and purposes
this is the old musicomedy “No,
No, Nanette” wrapped in
celluloid. The plot, which has
to do with the birth-pangs of the
musical during the Depresh, isn’t
exactly the work of an intel-
lectual colossus, but it gets by.
The film’s chief attraction lies
in the snappy dialogue, the wise-
cracks which fizz off the sound-
track every few feet, a delightful
character study by S. Z. Sakall
as a benevolent tyrant who is
uncle and guardian to an heiress
who wants to back the produc-
tion, and to high - pressure
comedy work by Billy de Wolfe
as the harassed and impecunious
producer.
Doris Day and Gordon Mac-
Rae handle with practised ease
the romance and hoof-’n’-crown
departments, the settings and
color present no affront to the
eye, and the flashback technique
is employed with discretion. At
Sydney Regent.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“It’s a Big Country”
It’s little pictures. To talk-
down a bore in a train, William
Powell recites the various kinds
of America and American.
These are then exemplified.
Ethel Barrymore complains that
she has been left out of the
census. The President hears of
it. All business stops to be nice
to this grand little old Irish
Bostonian. Then there is a run-
over of how negroes are leading
in all departments of American
life. Next an old Hungarian
poppa finds the oldest of his six
daughters married to a Greek,
and “Hungarians have hated
Greeks for a thousand years —-
there must be a reason” ; one of
the few good lines in the film.
There are tears when a young
soldier visits the mother of his
dead friend; there is slop when
clergyman Van Johnson blabs, in
the pulpit of the church some-
times attended by the President,
that his sermons have failed
because they were trained to
catch the President’s ear; and
lastly Fredric March as an old
Italian campaigns against his
son’s schoolteacher, who says his
son should wear glasses. The
Hungarian (S. Z. Sakall) and
March incidents are passable. At
Sydney St. James.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Four-poster”
This play for two people
begins well enough early in this
century when Rex Harrison
carries Lilli Palmer over the
threshold and they begin to go
to bed. Later, when he is a
famous novelist, they have a
worth-while quarrel; and later
still, when their son is dead in
the First World War, and their
daughter has been married, and
Miss Palmer decides she doesn’t
love Mr. Harrison any more,
they do another good scene, she
in the mood of the heroine of
the psychological novels of
between-wars which gave so
many well-to-do women an act-
able pose. Otherwise it’s pretty
thin, with a dreadfully dragged-
out finale between the old
novelist and his dead wife. The
transitions are managed by car-
toons ; someone has discovered
that human-beings can be as
amusing as animals in animated,
spidery drawings ; and it looks
as though we are in for a good
deal more of this in future. At
Sydney Century.


The Testing of Babwi
by W.E.HARNEY
BABWI called aloud that
his son Jalpra bring him
the old jam-tin he carried,
so that he could put in
another handful of the ghost-
crabs used by his family when
fishing on the outer reefs and
islands of their tribal ishores.
Not that his tribe were as one
now, for the seaport town had
detribalised them. Their tribal
lore and customs had been over-
thrown, and now the elders
gathered only at certain times
of the year to carry out some of
their age-old rituals of initiation.
Babwi and his family were
returning from one of these
walkabouts. The old man was
anxious to be back on his job
in the town, and he wished to
return Jalpra and his daughter
Gooruk to the Government
school so that they would grow
up not uneducated, like him and
his wife Nymil, but full of learn-
ing like the clever white people.
In the distance he could see
his wife and daughter busy roll-
ing up their swag of calico and
blanket, and getting together
some bags and tins which carried
their supplies as they travelled
around ; all this movement came
about from Babwi’s intention to
paddle his wooden canoe out to
the sandy island of Mumroo to
fish from its coral reefs and
gather up eggs from the many
turtle-nests on its beaches.
It was a good day to go to
sea. The small beads of dew
clinging to the grass-stems and
dancing in the morning sun told
Babwi that the fierce south-east
winds had eased a little, and in
the break the old man —follow-
ing the tradition of the tribal
hunters —decided that the time
was ripe for him to breast the
tidal-rips of Mindi, a cape to
the north. Once their canoe
was clear of this, the tide-races
would carry it the few remain-
ing miles to the egg-island.
His canoe, called by him
Tultee, after an uncle of his
who had been buried in the bush
where it had been cut, Was riding
on an anchor made from a piece
of old iron attached to the craft
by a length of rope he had
bought from the seaport store.
Babwi called, and his family
moved towards it as he looked
up reassuringly at the sky above
him.
Their needs for the trip were
few. Water and food was in
plenty on the island. After their
few belongings had been stowed
on the canoe, they clambered
aboard. Babwi pulled on the
paddle. Young Jalpra heaved
up the anchor. Now Tultee
swung into the sea. Nymil and
Gooruk made themselves com-
fortable in the middle of the
craft, and with an old blanket
thrown over their shoulders, and
eyes fixed ahead, they were soon
over the Mindi rip and heading
westwards for Mumroo Island.
HALFWAY to Mumroo,
Babwi sensed that something
had gone wrong with the tribal
lore about dew on the grass.
The wind had changed to their
beam, and as if by magic small
wisps of cloud went hurtling
overhead like the fluff of kapok-
pods when released from their
fruit in a strong breeze, and the
old canoe-man could tell that a
dreaded “morning-glory” storm
was sweeping upon them.
Knowing it was dangerous to
turn back towards the shore with
its strong tidal-race and choppy
sea, he pulled strongly on his
paddle, hoping to reach the
shelter of Mumroo before the
weather became too bad. Snap!
The handle broke in his hand.
He cursed bitterly. He had not
made his paddle from the wood
used by his forebears. Casting
the useless thing aside, he
grasped the lighter paddle Jalpra
handed him, and with this he
tried to keep the canoe in
motion.
Wind swept on them with a
howling roar that spun the wave-
tops over the canoe floundering
in the ever-rising swell. Useless
to seek the shelter of Mumroo
now, for it lay too far over on
their beam, and he could never
reach it in these treacherous
tide-rips. The slightest mistake,
and a wave would sweep them
out of the canoe. Babwi must
somehow keep old Tultee into
the wind to ride out the storm.
A big wave from the beam
swept over them. “Bail for your
lives!” he shouted, and leaped
from the stem of the canoe and
into the water, where he pulled
Tultee into the wind, facing the
oncoming seas.
How long Babwi remained in
the water he could not re-
member, nor did he care. Wave
after wave came surging upon
them, and as the water came into
the canoe Nymil and the children
tossed it back into the sea. As
a cork on the waves, Tultee, built
from the light timbers of the
mainland, bounced about the
surface ; Babwi, holding her as
a sea-anchor to the wind, while
Nymil and the children bailed
with ceaseless rhythm.
A rainstorm, rarely seen in
the cold month of June, added
to their misery, but flattened the
seas a little ; noting this, Babwi
clambered aboard to see if he
could get some life back into
legs numbed by the sea.
He smiled to himself when he
heard his family singing, huddled
under the wet blanket, a chant
to the sea. He smiled because
he realised the chant would carry
their minds away from the terror
that was about them. They had
reason to fear, he thought, for
who knew where they were go-
ing with this ever-changing wind?
And now that the sun was
obscured by clouds, he himself
was hopelessly lost. Daylight
slowly faded. Night closed in.
Helpless and weary, Babwi fell
into a light sleep, crouched in
the prow of Tultee, which rose
and fell and tossed in the waves.
Thus bailing, sleeping and
chanting, Babwi’s family rode
out the terrible storm. Just as
the dawn-light was breaking,
they saw before them a low,
small island behind a swirl of
foam which told them too plainly
of an outer reef between them
and the shore. Babwi knew that
now was the time for the final
testing of the canoe, Tultee, and
his family.
Swiftly they neared the reef.
Calling on the spirit of his dead
uncle, whose shade lived where
this canoe had been cut, and
who might be with them now,
Babwi steered his craft down a
roaring swell that burst in foam
over the reef. He could hear
Nymil and his children chanting
as they , threw aside their old
blankets and rags.
Tultee rose on the roaring
surf. For a moment Babwi
could see the sharp outlines of
the land ahead ; then they went
down into the trough of the
sea above the reef. Bang! The
wooden canoe shuddered as it
struck flat on the reef. Above
the roar of the surf the black-
man heard Nymil yelling to the
children to hold tight to the sides
of the canoe. In a daze he also
obeyed his wife’s command. A
wave broke over them. With a
piece of the broken canoe
clutched in his hands, Babwi
rose in a swirl of foam, and was
swept along to the calmer waters
of the reef-lagoon.
GASPING for breath he
eagerly looked about him
for his family, and when he saw
them safe and grimly hanging
onto parts- of the shattered
canoe, he gave thanks to the
spirit of the sea that the reef was
narrow at this place, for only this
had saved them from disaster.
Releasing his hold on the canoe-
fragment, he swam to the others,
and as a human raft, splashing
and shouting to drive away pre-
datory creatures of the reef, they
reached the shore and lay ex-
hausted upon its warm sands.
Only with the heat of the mid-
day sun, which had dispersed the
clouds, did Babwi rise to look
about this new island. He was
thirsty. The only water they
had had was what they had
carried in a billycan covered
with grass, and some that had
soaked into their bodies from
the rain. Dusting the sand from
his naked body, and leaving his
family asleep, he went to seek
water.
He saw no footprints of
human beings, or marks on trees
and sand to tell him they some-
times visited this place. Turtle-
egg nests were abundant on the
beaches, and in some places he
could see where these had been
dug out by large goannas. He
cut across the island and in a
short while was on the opposite
beach. He noticed that the
sandstone was similar to that
used for sharpening weapons in
his own country. He saw red,
tough clay, and tall messmate-
trees —useful for huts and bark-
canoes and yellow-and-red
flowering hibiscus that made
ropes and string, and the pan-
danus-palm and the broad leaves
that made dilly-bags for carry-
ing food during the hunt, and
mats for sleeping.
He passed through some very
old, yet large, salmon-gum-trees
on a gravel ridge, and in the
centre of the island he came
upon a lagoon-like depression ;
but, although he dug with a
sharp-pointed stick in many
places, he could find no water.
So he returned to his family on
the beach. They had already
made a fire by twirling a stick
between the palm of the hand
on a base of the same material,
and on the ashes of the fire he
could see small white balls which
told him plainly that Nymil and
the children were cooking, and
drinking the fresh water that
could always be found in nearly-
hatched turtle-eggs.
He sat down beside them, and
as he drank of the meagre water-
supply and dined off the flesh at
the same time, he told them
about the big salmon-gum-trees
and the possum scratches he
had seen upon the trunks and
Nymil became excited and told
him of how, when she was once
in dry country, the desert abo-
rigines would tap these trees for
water.
They all went to the place of
the salmon-gum-trees. Nymil
peeled the bark from one side of
the tree and then from the
other. Then she placed her ear
to the exposed trunk and gave
the other side a sharp rap with
a stone. “If water is inside,”
she said, “it will make a gurgling
sound.” After a few tries she
excitedly remarked, “Water
here.” She knocked off a small
knot of wood lower down the
trunk, and instantly a small jet
of water began to flow onto the
ground. She stopped the flow
with a wooden plug, after first
showing them how to put a
smaller stick in the hole to lead
the water into a bark dish.
Elated with their find, they
returned to camp with the water
in a bark dish. Babwi put
Nymil in charge of the water-
trees after warning the children
that a big sickness would come
over them if they went near the
spot. They made a breakwind
of bushes around their camp-
fire, and as the sun went down
they lay on the sand to sleep.
NEXT day Babwi’s first job
was to make tools and
weapons for the hunt. A spear
for hunting fish on the outer
reefs was easily constructed from
a thin sapling, barked and
softened in the fire and straight-
ened over the knee. He cut the
point with a piece of bailer-shell
ground to a cutting-edge on the
sandstone of the island. He
hardened the point by rolling it
in the hot coals of the camp-
fire.
Then he and Nymil, with the
children, gathered the inner bark
of the hibiscus, and through the
days ahead they teased and
twisted lengths of string and
rope. On the reefs Babwi found
a worn piece of clam-shell that
had been ground smooth. Its
shape instantly brought to his
mind the stone axes of his elders,
so he improvised a tommyhawk-
head from it and bound it to a
piece of wood with beeswax and
string.
Meanwhile Nymil and Gooruk
tracked the tree-possums to
their homes in the salmon-gum
trees, and, plucking the fur
before cooking them, they spun
it into possum-string, and this
they made into the pubic tassels
and aprons to cover their bodies.
Thus the days and the moons
went by, and Babwi and his
family never despaired. Each
day had them out hunting fish,
finding new water-trees or dig-
ging up bush yams in the jungles
behind the beaches. Pandanus-
palm fronds were gathered,
stripped into thin lengths and
woven by Nymil and Gooruk
into mats and baskets ; tiring of
this, they used up the hibiscus-
string for weaving dillybags and
fish-nets.
For Babwi had told them that
when the big wet season had
departed he would make a
messmate-bark canoe to take
them home ; and now they made
all these things as trade and
presents for their kinsfolk.
The first big storm broke over
the island, and Babwi and his
family ran about in its cool and
welcome waters. It was a big
storm, and when it finished they
discovered that it had filled the
depression in the centre of the
island. Invigorated by the
change, they set to work to build
for themselves a shelter of
bushes and grass to protect
them from future storms.
The winds changed to the
north-west, and the monsoons
brought the “big wet” that
pushed the sap into the mess-
mate-trees. Babwi and his family
stripped and carried sheets of
bark to build themselves a
waterproof home. Nymil and
the family went out into the
lagoon and gathered strong green
swamp-reeds; these they tied
into a bundle and buried in the
sand, and after a few days they
took them out, a few at a time,
and began to weave a large
rush-sail in the same pattern as
that used for mats and baskets.
Babwi made rope, and gath-
ered together those things he
would require for his canoe and
the journey ahead. Together he
and Jalpra hunted the reefs pick-
ing up conch- and bailer-shells
that would hold drinking-water
and bail the salt water from the
canoe, and as he and his family
worked they sang their tribal
songs.
"THEN came the day of the
i “knock-down” rains. The
grass lay over on to the earth
under the winds. Babwi went
out to a messmate-tree he had
already selected and began on
the canoe.
He laid a long pole against
the tree-trunk, and, climbing
this, he cut a neat ring around
the tree with his shell axe about
eighteen feet from the ground.
He cut a straight line from this
ring to the ground-level of the
canoe-tree, making sure the bark
was cut through to the tree-sap.
He cut around the tree at its
ground-level; then he and
Nymil loosened the bark from
the trunk, working under it with
long, sharp-pointed sticks. The
work was hard, and required
care, and when the large sheet
was free and lowered to the
ground they were thankful that
it was over. .
Now came the work of chip-
ping and cutting away the dead
outer bark, and in this all
helped. They stopped cutting
when the green, strong live bark
showed through the sheet.
Babwi next lifted the bark
sheet and placed it over a small
fire to make the ends supple
enough to come together as the
ends of the craft. Then, he and
Jalpra on one side and Nymil
and Gooruk on the other, they
brought the ends up and held
them till he drove in a stake on
each side and lashed them —a
primitive clamp. Babwi sewed
the ends together with hibiscus
rope, using a wooden awl to
punch the holes. Two rows he
fastened to each end to make
them doubly secure, and when
this was done they put green
bushes over the work and re-
turned to their camp on the
shore.
Next day they returned to the
job, lashing poles as gunwales
for the canoe. Carefully they
fixed in the short pieces of stick
that acted as spreaders to keep
the canoe rigid in a heavy sea.
Next day they returned with
pieces of straight wood for
rollers, arid by pushing and haul-
ing they soon had their bark-
canoe on the beach beside the
camp.
Babwi went over all the lash-
ings that might have been loos-
ened by the movement of the
canoe, and with the pounded
bark of the aborigines’ “cement-
tree” he plugged up all the
seams and weak joints. Ram-
ming home the primitive pitch,
he chanted the canoe-song, for
he was happy.
He knew that bark canoes will
sink when swamped by a sea,
so he fastened logs of driftwood
to the side. This time, when he
put to sea, he wanted to be sure
of reaching his destination. His
paddles were strong, too, for
these he had made over the
months, and the strong and
tough timber had been curing in
the sand beside his camp.
Nymil and the children turned
over and killed turtles that came
to lay their eggs on the beach;
from each they took out the
long-gut, and into it they stuffed
the eggs, which were then cooked
in the ashes of the fire to pro-
duce an egg-sausage that kept
fresh for a long period. They
also cooked and dried yams and
stowed them in their pandanus-
baskets.
And now, ten moons from the
day when they came to the
island, the light winds blew from
o Continued on page 23)


The massive bulk of No. 3
blast furnace (on left) towers
over the other two furnaces
at the AJ.S. Kembla Works.
-
rat
m
mm r
rr^v
! i
> -
I
s s
• ■ ->
- :
wmMmmm
T
■ $
**>. ■ ■ i
■:•• ‘i.. ■ ' ;
it jm
K-SP*!
u
: x
%> T \ :
leg & >
***« -V J :vi&
BgMMi
iaisfe
V i
IffT _ If
I
g—
*■
■pF
*" ; -'C : Mr lira
v:
H
«£* :
m
M
i
■ . g
.
■
■
m
: ■
■ . ■
I
*• i
Mil—
m
1
8 , ...
'■’ >
'
A
H
:■
- V
Ml
O >
»
Above: Charging-side view
of the new No. 3 blast
furnace.
At left: Seventeen-
ton bell-like com-
ponent of the furnace
charging mechanism
being hoisted into
position (some 200
feet above ground) by
the furnace crane.
Members of the erec-
tion gang are hauling
in the slack of a guy
rope.
Kembk ’sGiant
Blast Furnace
INDUSTRIAL history was made at the Kembla Works of
Australian Iron & Steel Ltd. on Wednesday, August 27,
1952, when the No. 3 blast furnace was lit for the first time.
A giant by world standards, the new furnace is capable
of producing 1,500 tons of pig iron per day. It stands 228
feet high, and 7,000 tons of steel, 20,000 tons of concrete,
and 10,000 tons of special bricks were used in its construction
which began in December, 1948.
The furnace is practically wholly Australian in material
and construction, the exceptions being the special bricks used
for lining the furnace and certain electrical equipment
(obtained from England) and the turbo-blower obtained from
Switzerland.
No. 3 blast furnace’s completion is but one of many steps
in the steel industry’s vast plan of development for the A.I.S.
Kembk Works. The plan will result in Port Kembla
becoming one of the world’s most modern and comprehensive
iron and steel producing centres.
r
at
MSm
FABRICATING WORKS: Alexandra; N.S.W.,
and South Melbourne, Victoria,
IRON ANR STEEL WORKS, PORT HEM lILA. X.


VOICES OFF
by CECIL MANN
/y ¥T LA TTFRED with the
l—f name of the Common-
£ wealth Collection, the
display of Australian
paintings on view at the Art
Gallery is going for exhibition
in London, in Paris, in all the
cultural centres of the Western
world. And what will they see ?
One thing they will certainly see
—the serious intent of what can
be called art in Australia finally
marred by the inclusion of
55
But this, surely, is already
familiar? No one who takes his
art by the half-column can have
failed to read Romney Brooke
on that pre-tour exhibition.
Those who went along to the
show after Romney had so ex-
pertly carved it up may have
noted that Lindly Conquest had
at least been moved from a
former semi-prominence to par-
tial obscurity, and that there did
not seem to be so much of him
as Romney had particularised.
But if they felt that in this they
had missed something—espe-
cially as Romney had referred to
the charge of indecency, even
though he did dismiss it—-the
several absent pieces were no-
where near all they did miss.
They missed, in fact, some-
thing of transcendental import-
ance. Those who were at the
preview could have told them of
it. They missed Romney him-
self. His usual grand perform-
ance. Warranted to steal the
canvas thunder from any art
show on earth. Or above it or
below it.
In the record-breaking season
of Romney Brooke, Art Critic,
there is, as all who have seen
any performance of it in the
flesh will know, only the one
character. The rest of the
viewers, trousered or skirted,
common - named or foreign -
named, tall or midget, scholarly
or skulky—the whole dozen or
so, and the canvases on the walls
along with them, shrink into
insignificance ; mere stage-props
and background for the superb
performer in the title role,
Romney Brooke.
More remarkable still: not
merely only the one character,
but a character without one line.
Not so much as a “Ho ho ho ho
ho!” Not a word. Not a laugh,
Nothing. Nothing but Romney’s
famous hands. Romney’s vocal,
indeed voluble, hands. Talking
direct to the signature on some-
thing hung on the wall. Varied
gesture shades of contempt:
“We are faintly amused!”
“Nice woman; pity she can’t
naint! ” “Holy swan, what a
ridiculous dauber!” Or make
your own interpretation of the
sundrv other variations. At the
art show any art show —devas-
tatine. Romneyesque.
By no means a puppet, Rom-
npv Good heavens no. Panto-
Se Supert paniomime.
The greater tribute to Romney
that he is—well, not altogether
romantically constructed for the
part. In fact, dumplingish. As
good as perfectly round. Round
head, round face, round eyes,
round belly. Positively global.
He couldn’t have been done
better with a pump.
Something to have seen Rom-
ney just roll through a show ;
something indeed. Having rolled
through, Romney rolls out and
away. “Poor old Rompey,” say
the remnants, knowing very well
that Romney is neither poor nor
old, and that, apart from his
enviable attribute of money, he
has something on the lot of
them ; is what they’d one and
all like to be—a figure, a
character, a personage, a spheri-
cal original.
And this, too, that what he
rolls away to write will be worth
reading. For the massacre in it.
At the beginning of his now far-
famed career —the season has
lasted already a bit upwards «of
ten years—he took to himself
as a motto from the boxing-
ring: “Come out fighting!”
That’s for himself ; for his public
an occasional use of ring argot
—“weak in the pantry, as they
say in the ring” ; meaning gut-
less —as another great man of
his kind imports the lingo of
science into music, or is it vice
versa? A more apt usage,
Romney’s; the ring, after all, is
canvas.
But all this—Romney at an
art show; the round balloon of
Romney rolling away ; Romney’s
crashing half-column—will be in
one way or other familiar. It
is the public performance. Only
the one character ; and the
hands.
| N this unrehearsed interrup-
I tion to Romney in that role
the famous hands are otherwise
employed. Clittering a type-
writer. Also, there’s an extra
character, and many lines.
Counting in the Voices Off, you
might say that actually there are
many more than the two charac-
ters.
For the present, in the flatette,
there are just the two. It is
Romney’s flatette ; expensive
enough, but merely where he
works. His flat, where he lives,
is a deal more expensive ; but
Romney can afford it. No beg-
garly Grub-streeter, Romney,
He works, as it were, for fun.
He would say for art. Perhaps.
The flatette has a dark-red
cedar table; a typewriter. A
Japanese print shadowed on the
wall has a boy with a lighted
lantern suspended on a bamboo
pole over a dead body on a
midden. The red oblong of the
lantern, by some trick of color,
burns as a flame on the shaded
wall. It meant something to the
artist; it could mean something
else to Romney,
On the window-sill a flower-
pot with a slender tree growing
in it. The tree —Romneyesque
—is of his own growing. From
a mango-seed. In your hot
Queensland soil it would be a
wide branching shade ; here it
is a tall thin stem with fifteen
green to weak-red leaves on it.
And the bed. The extra
character is lying on it. In her
way she is almost as well-known
as Romney. As an expert
collector. Not of art; nothing
so inanimate. No; of stray
animals. Male animals. Her
collection is already extensive,
and she so young. It would
astonish their wives.
Chin in her hands, she is
looking at a magazine. Not
unaware of how her lie could
be striking Romney, if Romney
were not so impenetrably Rom-
ney. No wife, but impregnable.
Complete in armor of unassail-
able self without a chink in it.
Barring the matter of shape,
the two might have changed
sexes. Strictly an effect of
clothes. Appearances. Naturally,
they still differ materially —and
in more ways than one.
The bed, cedar, is foot-high ;
wide enough to be more than
comfortable for one, not perhaps
really uncomfortable for two.
The one on it is brown slacks,
brown jacket with large pockets ;
suede belt. The completely
round back at the typewriter is
wave-green silk dressing-gown
with silver coin-spots and tas-
sels. The double-breasted blue
suit-coat is carefully hung on a
chair. The rest he has on, under
the green dressing-gown.
A half-typed sheet of copy-
paper, torn out, shredded into
bits, and tossed out the window
into the night is somewhere in
the accommodating wastepaper-
basket of back-lanes winding
down behind King’s Cross. The
second sheet looks in some
danger of following it. Who’d
have thought this in reading
what Romney is
here at work on—
his carving-up of
the touring Com-
monwealth Art Col-
lection? Not, it may
be recalled, the
usual half-column;
a full-dress going-
over of Australian
painting; all of it
flowing, spontane-
ous. Not a hint of
bits torn up and cast
to the night.
But then, Rom-
ney, too, is in his
way an artist. So for
the matter of that is
the one on the bed.
So too, of course, in
their way, are the as yet unheard
Voices Off, the radio within lazy
reach of her hand being still left
in sulky-looking muteness. In-
stead, feeling for a chink in the
armor, the calculatedly provoca-
tive purr:
“By now I’d have thought
Romney Brooke could write
Lindly Conquest down in his
sleep.”
From the front of the round
back; unprovoked, unprovoc-
able, unruffled, unrufflable Rom-
ney : “My preciousness, your
hero”
From the bed, seeping honey:
“I adore genius. It ain’t as
common as cowpats.”
“My dear Miss Vulgar”
“Sorry, darl, I meant cow-
slips”—
“Vulgarer and vulgarer”
“You know what I mean, dar-
ling”—
“Quite , . . critics. Ho ho,
ho ho ho!”
“When I was a little girl they
used to say he was indecent”-;
“You remember beyond crino-
lines?”
“Now it’d be called prudish.
So we say he’s vulgar. Useful
word, vulgar, pet, isn’t it?”
“For that thought, my dear,
I thank you. Now shut up while
I use it, or supper is off. You
can switch on if you like; I
don’t hear it.”
The sheet in the portable joins
the other one in the night, float-
ing in angry particles down to
Rushcutter Bay and the park
and stadium. Romney types
lightly and easily on the near-
noiseless machine ; pudgy Mark
Hambourg fingers caressing the
keys.
SWITCHED on, the Great
Voice Off hums into startled
life. As if angry for having
been kept muted, it puts on as
its particular Voice of the
moment one that is female,
exact, precise, electric in its
coldness. It is caught in the
midst of Blake ; the words drop
into the room like drops
squeezed from a dead heart:
“When the stars threw down
their spears,
And water’d heaven with their
tears,
Did He smile His work to see ?
Did He who made the lamb
make thee ?
Tiger, tiger, burning bright
In the forests of the night,
What immortal hand or eye
Dare frame thy fearful sym-
metry ?”
The words stay a moment, cold
sparks lighting up the jungle.
The Great Voice Off, like a
tiger itself, lurks behind its thorn
bushes ; a tiger curling its claws.
As the knob on the dial is
twisted it gets up muttering;
striding, like Evil in Job, up and
down and to and fro. It puts
on in passing some blah of a
sobbing song ; then another par-
ticular Voice of the moment
(male, and a little thick ; pos-
sibly beer) to share out the
arresting information: “The
third of the caves, the famous
Twisted Cave, is unique in hav-
ing two separate entrances, one
at the front and one at the back.
The front aperture is approxi-
mately fifteen and a half
feet”
The twisting of the knob hurls
Voice and Twisted Cave into
black silence. The typing from
the front of the round back goes
on as a light clittering “
sheer integrity and intensity of
the emotional perception
It keeps on though the Great
Voice Off becomes music. Both
round back and brown slacks
have grown up with the Voice.
They know it; they can shut it
on or off in their ears.
They think they can be deaf
to it. The Voice bides its time.
It has brought them up. When-
ever it likes it knows it can
reach them. It has their address.
The typing clitter goes on;
“....or make us poetically
aware of selfconsciousness as a
reality .,. . ” One hand from the
bed idles with the change-knob ;
the other idles the magazine
pages. The Great Voice Off
puts on another particular Voice
of the moment. A gentle Voice,
though male; barely strong
enough to impress its important
message: “Bed them four inches
apart in a plot which gets the
full benefit of the morning sun.
A rich mulch of well-rotted
manure”
Alas —silence! Like that. By
a twist of the knob never to
know whether in that sunny plot
easting the red-tiled bungalow
they gfew and flourished and
flowered or the grubs got ’em!
Never (abating the grubs) to go
out in the cool of the evening,
after a hard day in the drapery
department, and watch them —
wallflowers, or pansies, or what-
ever they are —growing there
behind Emoh Ruo in peace and
amity four inches apart.
The Great Voice Off now
itself leaps to life: deep, tre-
mendous, directly personal: “In
approximately three and a half
minutes’ time we’ll be taking you
over to your commentator at the
stadium. Weights for the main
bout at the two-o’clock weigh-
ing-in were”
Were nothing! A twist, and
whoever are fighting in the main
bout tonight weigh less than air.
There is momentarily nothing
but the even smoothness of the
typing clitter : “... .the beautiful
and the unlovely or the realistic
and the conventionally pretty
” The radio-knob is kept
twisting in a continuous turn,
so that particular Voice follows
particular Voice, giving out in a
cohabitation of male and female
sounds the irrefutable dogma
“Velvet smooth ....twist.,..
soap is best twist for
breakfast twist before
going to bed.”
Voice after Voice again as the
twisting turns back around the
dial: Wild bull twist for
soldiers twist forecast
warm and mild with showers
.. . .twist, .j ..increased no less
than 21 per cent, in the past year
alone.”
The knob stops where the par-
ticular Voice is persuasive, inti-
mate. It is an Actress Voice,
narrator in a play: “Sydney to-
day. The vast exports of the
land pouring into steamers which
crowd the harbor as it was once
crowded with masts and sails of
barques and clippers. Wheat and
wool, food and clothing for the
world. Those are the trucks you
hear, making down through the
trams and traffic to the Quay.
But now we have stepped
out of the bustle and hurry into
one of the quieter byways. His-
toric Macquarie Place. This
green oasis in the heart of the
city, with its Moreton Bay fig-
trees and bits of green lawn and
grey garden-seats. Yes, and
its ghosts of the past. Here is
the old gun, and the quaint old
ship’s anchor, both from the
wreck of the Sirius, which con-
voyed the First Fleet into Port
Jackson. And the obelisk erected
by Governor Lachlan Macquarie
to mark the spot from which all
roads were to be measured when
this Australia was a colony
thirty years old. Past this very
spot Colonel Johnston marched
his men upt the hill, on their way
to depose ']( Governor Bligh” —-
INTERRUPTION; this time
I from the front of the round
back: “That three minutes must
be about up. Give us a bit of
the fight.”
From the bed, slightly in-
trigued: “Fight, Romney? Dar-
ling, do you really want to listen
to that?”
“It couldn’t be deader than
Governor Bligh”
“Oh darl, I adore Governor
Bligh, and all that”
-“Nuts, dearest. It won’t be
much of a fight, or you wouldn’t
be going to supper”
“At least, not with Romney
Brooke”
“And now by courtesy of Hall-
stones Kwicklin” — Romney must
have had his eye on the clock—
“we take you over to ”
No interruption of the
typing clitter “.. . .none of that
infinitesimal nicety of adjust-
ment. v
The Ringside Voice is easy,
familiar, confidential, unselfcon-
scious. It is much nearer the
Great Allpowerful Voice than
Miss Blake or Mr. Caves or Mr.
Garden Hints. It belongs to the
select hierarchy, the great total,
the Allpowerful Unity of Voice.
It just talks:
“Well, we’re all set now any
o Continued on page 34)


m
I .
1
m
m
m
i .
I ‘
m
B*
4 TEMPTING REASONS for securing
NOW a pair of STAMINA DE-LUXE
Self-supporting TROUSERS .
1. THE SUPPLY IS LIMITED. Although over
2,000,000 are made and sold, only one man in every five
will be able to get a pair this year.
2. A MAN LOOKS HIS BEST IN STAMINA
Staminas are artistically designed to give you freedom
and comfort without losing that stylish appearance well-
dressed men demand.
3. YOU WILL GET YEARS AND YEARS OF
WEAR FROM STAMINA, Staminas are master-tailored
from a special and exclusive wear-resisting Pure Wool
Crusader Cloth. That means you have Crusader’s Guarantee
that the cloth will never fade or shrink.
4. THE PRICE IS FAR BELOW THE VALUE YOU RECEIVE.
For only 99/8 you get all the benefits of Pure Wool a cloth that is wear-
resisting, dirt-repellent, flame-resisting and water-repellent. Smartly cut,
attractive, comfortable Trousers ideal for every wear everywhere.
ASK FOR
Stamina
TROUSERS
DON’T DELAY I SECURE YOUR STAMINA SELF-SUPPORTING TROUSERS NOW!
Obtainable from all leading Men’s Wear Stores
TOS
the north. They made ready to
depart. How they laughed as
they carried aboard the conch-
shells full of water and trimmed
the canoe with the food, baskets
and trade-goods they had made
over the days before! Babwi
even picked up a thin, flat stone
that lay on the beach and put
this in the centre as a cooking-
place, with some firewood and
a firestick of smouldering pan-
danus to light it. They took a
long look at their camp-place,
and even Gooruk cried at their
going. Then Babwi spoke; they
all climbed aboard, and, with
rush-sail set on its bush-mast,
they paddled across the lagoon
and reef and sailed away to the
south before a light breeze.
P OR a day and a night they
I sailed, and on the morning
of the second day they saw
smoke from burning grass which
told them the mainland was
near and that the tribespeople
had once more gathered for the
dances of initiation. They turned
the canoe towards the grass-fires,
and by evening-light they saw
the land, with its well-known
beaches. A steady breeze pressed
upon their sail, and the canoe
sped down the wind to the shore,
where people ran about and
made smokes to welcome them
in.
Babwi and his family chanted
a tribal song. They kept up the
chanting as the canoe ran on to
the beach and was grasped by
their kinsfolk, who had mourned
them as dead, but now wel-
corned them with tears of joy.
That night, as a part of the
dance, Babwi told the story that
has just been recorded. And
when the ritual was over Babwi
and his family returned to the
town, where, asked by the
schoolteacher why she had been
so long away from school,
Gooruk replied, “We had a big
holiday on an island.” An
answer which ohly goes to show
that this world is made up of
people who have different
opinions.
The Clouded Lens
by a.REYNOLDS
FOR a striking example of
atavism, there are few
spectacles which can com-
pete with that produced
by the arrival of the five-o’clock
train at Wynyard Station. The
sudden manifestations of ruth-
lessness and prehension by
people who, until the train’s
shrilly grinding halt, appeared
reasonably composed and
rational cause one to reflect that
possibly Darwin attributed to
the human race greater evolu-
tionary attainment than it has
actually achieved.
An exception to this mass
demonstration, one Friday night,
was Paula, She stood against a
pillar, idly swinging her brief-
case back and forth, and it was
not until the untidy rush had
resolved itself into carriage after
carriage of compressed humanity
that she walked listlessly to the
train and took up a precarious
position near the door.
She was about sixteen, thin in
a manner suggestive of mal-
nutrition, and her face, with its
heavily-colored mouth and
assiduously plucked eyebrows,
wore an expression of precocious
ennui. If there was any soft-
ness at all in her face, it lay
in the eyes, which looked out
into the tunnel in a wistful, pre-
occupied manner. The tunnel
didn’t really interest her ; it was
the mirror of the glass portion
of the door, backed by the outer
blackness, which she found
absorbing.
j T had often occurred to her
1 that the street across the
Harbor down which she
sauntered every week-day after-
noon at ten past five was one
of odd, architectural faces. The
off-white tenements, flush with
the street, had, in the fading
light, a skull-like appearance;
the partly-seen papier-mache
head above Luna Park was,
without the flush of neon, singu-
larly zombie-like, while there
were many unrelated features,
such as the glassy eye of the
harbor and the ponderous eye-
brow of the Bridge.
It was the corporeal face of
Miss Pierce which eclipsed these
fantasies. She was sitting in the
kitchen when Paula entered the
house. Paula paused, momen-
tarily, in the doorway, but her
stepfather, without lowering his
paper, called out:
“Miss Pierce wants to have a
few words with you.”
“Indeed I do,” supplemented
Miss Pierce. “Now, I’m not
going to lecture you”—the
thin lips parted in the rictus of
an attempted smile —“but I be-
lieve you have been going about
with Barry Rames.”
“I—l know him, slightly,” re-
plied Paula carefully.
“I take it that you weren’t
associated with him in the recent
car-thefts?”
“Oh, no! I mean —has he
been caught? Er, he hasn’t been
stealing, has he?”
A snort came from behind the
paper.
“He has. As long as you had
nothing to do with it, you’ve
nothing to worry about.”
Mr. Macey laid his paper
down. “We’ve had enough un-
favorable publicity to last a life-
time,” he told Paula. “You
don’t have to increase it,”
“Unfavorable publicity.” To
Paula it seemed an inappropriate
phrase. She had appeared in
the papers on two occasions,
once during the divorce proceed-
ings between her parents; the
other when, inadvertently, she
appeared in the background of
a photograph of the locality in
which a well-known gunman had
met a messy end. In the former
instance, she had found herself
surrounded by overtly sympa-
thetic and indulgent relatives,
whom, incidentally, she had
never encountered again. In the
latter
HER younger sister, Ruth,
entered with an abandoned
banging of her school-case
against the kitchen wall, and
the train of thought was tempo-
rarily shunted.
“You’re attending school regu-
larly, Ruth?” asked Miss Pierce.
“Oh, yes.” The words were
iterated with such spurious en-
thusiasm that -Paula almost
laughed.
“I’m glad to hear it,” declared
Miss Pierce, without, however,
portraying gladness in the
slightest degree. She turned to
Mr. Macey. “Is your wife in?”
“She’ll be home later,” he
said.
“I’m afraid I can’t wait to see
her this evening, but I shall call
around during next week.”
Mr. Macey nodded, and picked
up the paper. The social worker
rose, looked speculatively around
the kitchen, and departed.
“What’s up?” demanded
Ruth.
“Unfavorable publicity,” re-
plied her sister absently.
SHE was thinking of the later
photograph, the one whose
publication was followed by the
appearance of the lean, dark-
haired man with eyes the color
of a winter sea. There had been
an extremely unpleasant scene
between him and her mother.
There were phrases which she
had deliberately memorised.
“You consider this a proper
environment for a child”
“What I do doesn’t concern
you, now”
“The surroundings my children
are growing up in concerns me.”
“Really. You should have
thought of that before you ran
out”
“It was a case of running out
or wringing your neck, Maria.”
“You always had a rotten
temper, George,”
“You went out of your way
to provoke it.”
“Get out and leave me alone,”
“Not until”
“Get out! Paula! Go up
to the Royal and get Harry!
He’ll put you out soon enough.”
“Certainly. Get him, Paula.
I’m curious about him, Maria.
Your marriage to him doesn’t
seem to have improved you.
You look rather jaded, in fact.
And that outfit —you showed
better taste when you were
married to me. What an influ-
ence he must have!”
At that juncture Maria’s hand
had cracked across his face.
“IT NFAVORABLE pub-
licity,” Paula repeated.
“I don’t get it,” said Ruth.
Paula had crossed the room
and was reaching out to turn on
the mantel radio when she
stopped suddenly, and, swing-
ing round, looked at the doorway
with the startled, alert expres-
sion of an awakened somnam-
bulist.
“No, of course you wouldn’t,”
she said. “Outside! I”
“Paula! ” bellowed Mr. Macey,
but the girl had already gone,
as had Ruth, who had been un-
gently grabbed in transit.
“I’m going up to the station,”
she said. “Coming?”
“The station? Where are you
going?”
“The police-station, dill.”
Ruth looked awed. “What
for?”
“Barry was nabbed for steal-
ing from cars. Miss Pierce was
round to see if I knew anything
about it. I said I didn’t.”
“Well?”
“Suppose I confessed. Sup-
pose I said that I knew all about
his thefts, had even helped him.
What do you think they’d do?”
“Paula! You couldn’t have.”
“What do you think they’d
do?” persisted Paula.
“Gee, I don’t know. They’d
lock you up, I suppose. You
might have to go up before a
judge, or something. And every-
one would know —it would be in
the papers. You’re only kidding,
aren’t you? You couldn’t have
known anything about Barry.
Paula! You’re’ ’
“Yes, it would be in the
papers,” said Paula. She won-
dered if her father —that dark-
haired man with eyes the color
of a winter sea —would again
risk the violence that his last in-
tervention had produced. Per-
haps this time he would take a
definite stand; perhaps, by now,
a bleeding nose was not sufficient
grounds for retreat.
That, Paula considered, was a
chance that would have to be
taken.


The Flying “Whale”
LONDON, xBi6
I
I
UR aeronautical cor-
respondent yesterday
inspected a strange
dirigible which is at present being
constructed by S. T. Pauly and
Durs Egg, Swiss gunsmiths. The
airship is to be propelled by oars
and fins, powered by a kind of
atmospheric steam engine in-
vented by Mr. Collier. To give
control in climb and descent, a
hinged horizontal fin with an ad-
justable ballast weight is fitted.
“Free Ballooning,” said Mr.
Pauly, “is a pleasant enough pas-
time. But my aim is to produce a
controllable aircraft which is fast
and efficient; an aircraft as
renowned for these qualities”
and here he paused as if lost for
a word “as is the BP Aviation
Service. The public may not yet
understand that comparison, but
they will, gentlemen, they will!”
AVIATION
fs
SERVICE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.. All States.
A subsidiary of Anglo-Iranian Oil Company Limited, London
Legal Notices
TO WILLIAM GILL and his issue by any
marriage other than to SARAH ANN
GILL (nee SPENCER) and all persons
claiming by through or under them or
any of them by derivative title or other-
wise howsoever. PURSUANT to an
Order of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand you are required to send in to the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Wellington, New
Zealand, your claim to share in The
estate of FLORENCE GILL, late of
Christchurch, in New Zealand, Spinster,
deceased, so as to be received by the
Public Trustee on or before the 31st day
of March, 1953, failing which such
estate will be distributed disregarding
your claim. —THE SOLICITOR, Public
Trust Office, Wellington. New Zealand.
GEORGE EGAN, son of the late GEORGE
EGAN (also known as GEORGE CON-
NOLLY) and the late CATHERINE EGAN
(nee HOLLOWAY). GEORGE EGAN
THE YOUNGER lived his early life in
Beechworth district of Victoria; if still
alive, he would be about eighty years old.
Any wife, child or other relation of his
or any person able to give any informa-
tion about the past or present where-
abouts of him or his family, if any, will
please communicate with PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Information is required in estate of a
deceased person.
GRIFFITHS, Deceased..
GEORGE STEPHEN MORTIMER HENRY
GRIFFITHS (also known as GEORGE
HENRY and as GEORGE HENRY
GRIFFITHS) died at Sydney, N.S.W., on
10th April, 1943, intestate. He was
son of STEPHEN GRIFFITHS and SARAH
GRIFFITHS (born BARTLETT), and was
born at or near Launceston, Tasmania.—
PURSUANT to Decretal Order of Supreme
Court of New South Wales in Equity
made on 6th August, 1948, in Suit (No.
350 of 1948) shortly entitled “In Re
Estate of GEORGE STEPHEN MORTIMER
HENRY GRIFFITHS, Racecourse Clerk,
deceased, BETWEEN PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Plaintiff, and EASTOE AND OTHERS,
Defendants, WHEREBY the following in-
quiry was directed, namely, who were
the persons entitled according to the
Statutes for the distribution of intestates’
estates to the estate of George Stephen
Mortimer Henry Griffiths living at his
death, and whether any of them are since
dead, and if so who are their respective
legal personal representatives, NOTICE
IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said
inquiry (who have not already sent in
claims) are to send by post prepaid to
the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, O’Connell Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., so as to reach him on
or before the 24th January, 1953, their
full names, addresses and descriptions and
full particulars of their claims; other-
wise they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said Decretal Order, unless
otherwise ordered. Claimants are to
attend by solicitor or in person before
the Master in Equity, Supreme Court,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, on Thursday,
12th February, 1953, at 11 a.m., for the
adjudication upon the claims. A claimant
not residing in New South Wales must
send with his particulars of claim the
name and address of a person in New
South Wales to whom notices to the claim-
ant can be sent. Known first cousins of
the Intestate survived him. The follow-
ing persons are particularly sought,
namely, STEPHEN GRIFFITHS, MAR-
GRATTA (or MARGARETTA) ELIZA-
BETH RODGERS, WILLIAM RODGERS,
WALTER HARRIS RODGERS, GEORGE
WILLIAM RODGERS, FLORENCE LYDIA
LE GALLANT. Anyone able to give in-
formation concerning any of these persons
will please communicate with the under-
signed Solicitor. Dated 13th November,
1952.—T. W. GARRETT CHRISTIE &
BUCKLEY, 14 Martin Place, Sydney,
N.S.W., Plaintiff’s Solicitors.
Public Notice
l 7 ELIZABETH BREZNIKAR, of Yugo-
slavian nationality, born at Alexinae, resi-
dent three years in Australia, now resid-
ing at Fowler Road, Yennora, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Ik Divorce.
TO KEITH PERCIVAL FRASER late of
Hopewell Street Paddington.—T AK E
NOTICE that WINIFRED LILLIAN
FRASER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2207 of 1952 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 2nd February 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from ERIC SUNMAN, Solicitor, of
110' Bathurst Street, Sydne y. J-
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NE^V
ZEALAND — Christ church Registry.
,In Divorce No. 461.
TO FREDERICK GEORGE HARVEY
husband of EASYBELLA HARVEY of
Christchurch New Zealand. —T AK E
NOTICE that a Petition by your wife for
dissolution of her marriage with you on
the ground of Separation for three years
by Agreement has been filed in the
Supreme Court of New Zealand at Christ-
church with a Notice to you annexed that
unless you file an Answer to the Petition
in the said Court at Christchurch within
thirty days from the publication of this
advertisement the Court may hear the
Petition and pronounce judgment without
your being heard and that until you have
given an Address for Service in manner
provided by the Rules of Court you will
not be entitled to receive any further
notice or documents in connection with
the proceedings. A copy of the Petition
and Notice will be supplied to you on
your applying for the same at the Supreme
Court Office at Christchurch. DATED at
Christchurch this 4th day of November,
1952.—J. R. SANSOM, Deputy Registrar.
WILLIAM FRANCIS TRACY is the Soli-
citor for the Petitioner, whose address for
service is at the office of the said William
Francis Tracy, situate 118 Hereford
Street, Christchurch. Friends of the Re-
spondent are particularly requested to
forward to him the foregoing advertise-
ment.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
, Wants
*
Era ,if
Adehdde h °AHvlrtw^ to f», 0 wS
1880’s and ! l m l ,n e *
crietorshin Q-i OVer A the ” Pr .fn
earlv RrnWn huT 10 ver a
iy Bioken Hill newspaper.—s 376.
lo buy large or small quantities of
plain and fancy mangoes, N. Queens-
land varieties.—s 377.
To buy Education of Youth for
Leadership by Arthur J. Jones, pub-
lished in 1938 by McGraw-Hill
Book Co., New Y0rk.—5378.
Information Sought
5
Difference between nnes and
monkevs ? p
y ‘ .
Firstly, the apes have no tail. The
main distinction, however, is that the
apes are invariably upright in posture
(they walk erect), whereas the
monkeys, though erect when sitting,
are horizontal when walking. The
internal organs which influence these
different modes of progression are
consequently different. In other re-
spects apes and monkeys are similar.
There are four apes—the chimpanzee
and gorilla of equatorial Africa and
the orang-outang and gibbon of
south-east Asia and the East Indies.
* * * *
Brief account of the Ruxton murder
case in Emhtnd about 20 war7aeo ?
case in England about zu years ago.
Parts of two bodies, cut up and
wrapped in cotton sheets and news-
paper, were found late in September,
1935, near Moffat, in the south of
Scotland. They were proved to be
those of Mrs. Isabella Ruxton, wife
of Dr. Buck Ruxton, of Lancaster,
England/ and of Mary Rogerson, the
Ruxtons’ nursemaid. Ruxton was a
36-year-old Indian with medical degrees
from Bombay and London univer-
sities, who had anglicised his name
on taking up practice in England—
he had previously served in the
Indian medical service. He was very
jealous and suspicious of his wife,
an Englishwoman (they were not
legally married, but had lived together
for many years, and had three chil-
S' £ M
who had apparently tried to stop
him - Ruxton was arrested on October
14, exactly a month after the murders.
He never confessed to the crime, but,
tried at Manchester, he was found
gu jity and hanged in Strangeways
pr i SO n, Manchester, on May 12 1936
* * * *
... r ■ . t , ,
?■ P u ’ 3^ lca j l ° m issued by
tie - Society, with their
prices. (2) Addiess of the Austrahana
Society .
(1) The Voyage of Governor Phillip
to Botany Bay (£lO 10s.), Bligh s
Narrative of the Mutiny on Board
H.M. Ship Bounty (£lO 10s.), Orchids
°l Australia, parts I and 11, by W.
H. Nicholls (£7 10s. each), Birds of
Paradise and Bower Birds by Tom
jredale (£6 65., limited edition £l2
125.), Australian Shells by Joyce Allan
(£3 15 5 .), Bluegum Clippers and
Whaleships of Tasmania (205.),
Charles Sturt by J. H. L. Cumpston
(215.), Crossing the Dead Heart by
q j Madigan (12s. 6d.), The Lyre-
birds of Sherbrooke by L. H. Smith
(215.), and Music in Australia by W.
Arundel Orchard (£1 10s.). (2) C/o
Georgian House Pty., Ltd, 431
Bourke-street, Melbourne.
( >
„ How did the term “Crapaud,” or
John t r } y Cr . a P aud . a derisive term at
■T, USe f ° r “ Frenchrnan >
originate ?
According to Guillim and Peacham,
17th-century writers on heraldry, the
ancient arms of France were three
crapauds, or toads. Strange as it
may seem, it appears uncertain
whether this is true or not. There is
much discussion of the subject in
the Intermediate des Chercheurs (the
French counterpart of “Notes and
Queries”). A statue of King Clovis
at Frankfort-on-Main shows, it is
said, three toads on his shield, and a
14fh-century tapestry in Rheims
Cathedral likewise shows toads as his
device. On the other hand, it is
argued that heraldic emblems were
adopted in France only after the first
crusade, much later than Clovis. On
the whole, it appears that the so-called
toads are rudely executed attempts to
represent fleur-de-lis, or lance-heads.
Brief Answers
The Song of Nature and
Other Poems by H. H. Pearce,
printed by the Advertiser Printery,
Footscray, Melbourne, and Poems
by members of the Australian
Poetry Lovers’ Society, Melbourne,
edited by H. H. Pearce, published
by the Australian Poetry Lovers’
Society, Melbourne... .M.H.: Francis
Kenna was born in 1865, and died
in Brisbane on June 23, 1932. An
obituary notice appeared in the
“Brisbane Courier” the following day.
F.C.: Edwin Gerard’s (“Gerardy”)
address is R.M.B. 725, Pinnacle,
Grenfell (N'.5.W.).... J.J.L.: We
suggest that a cement-base paint be
used to brighten up the concrete
rails around the memorial. This
material should be used according to
the manufacturer’s instructions. A
cement-base paint of buff color may
also be used to give the concrete
walls a sandstone appearance, or, if
a “sanded” effect is required, the
walls may 1 be brushed with a cement-
and-water paste and crushed sand-
stone of the desired color sprinkled
on this. The cement paste will need
to be of a stiff consistency to hold
the sandstone S.M.F.: Write Mr.
J. K. Moir, Box 1663, G.P.0., Eliza-
beth-street, Melbourne M.G.H.;
Write Angus and Robertson, 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.... J.D.:
Get in touch with the Department of
Agriculture, Farrer-place, Sydney
P.P.: Later Litanies by Kathleen
Walker (Kathleen Dalziel) was pub-
lished in 1913. Beltane Book Bureau,
Box 965, P. 0., Wellington (N.Z.) has
a second-hand copy for 2s. 6d
L.M.S.: Send them to Tyrrell’s Book-
shop, 281 George-street, Sydney....
E.J.M.: There is no connection in
the endings of “atta” in these widely
separated aboriginal languages. Parra-
matta means the head of the river,
dark jungle, or place where the eels lie
down; Cabramatta is the home of
the cobra-worm; Oodnadatta is
mulga-flowers. “Matta” probably
meant the “place of” eels and cobra-
grubs. That is, where they occurred
in large numbers in the language of
the Eora tribe in this area.... L.F.:
St. David’s is the Anglican cathedral
in Hobart; the Roman Catholic
cathedral is St. Mary’s... .M.P.K.:
C. E. W. Bean’s The Story of Artzac
states that “a few mines were placed
by the Turks on the beach at Suvla
and Sedd-el-Bahr and some exploded,
but apparently with trifling effect.”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J.Q.: Ancient gentleman in park
too rickety... .J.MeV.: Close. Try
a daily about one month belore
Anzac Day... J.D.: Outcast poem
neither bad nor good; just outclassed.
J.W.W.: Train poem successfully
grimy; that’s a 11... .M.G.H.: Poem
just fdir. But you should have some-
thing interesting to say in prose about
shearing... .H.P.G.; One yard or
mildly bubbly poetry on the rivers ot
the Snowy River hydroelectric scheme
hereby noted before it cascades into
the w.p.b C.E.M.: “1 am enclos-
ing my description of a ghost-story
in poetry.” It’s certainly ghastly.
J.P.; “Is the actual poem wrong
or is the style unsuitable?” Both.
J.S.M.: No further this time
D.F.: A pleasant rhythm in “How
Deep?” but it doesn’t say very much.
.... H. Paterson: Well, we’ll give it
a fly for its genuineness:
Enclosed is a true story in verse of an
old Western Queensland identity, now
living in retirement at Charleville. He is
now 73, hale and hearty, though rather
dried-up-looking after a strenuous life.
Still a bachelor —“never had the time to
get married,’’ he says.
J.A.S.: “Hymn to the Tongue”
is an oddity, but we shall not tin it
here C.W.H.: That’s more than
we can do, anyhow H.D.; “Love
was a sob, Hiccoughed in catadioptric
void.” Which? L.Z.: It’s a pity
it’s not pithy F.W.M.: “I write
a considerable number of verses on
a great variety of subjects.” You
alarm us S.P.: But cicadas don’t
say anything of the kind R.N.C.:
Nicely done, but, in spite of the fresh
imagery, essentially trite... .T.M.H.:
What had Billy done to deserve that?
Very sorry indeed to
return a “Migrant”.,. J.M.C. :
“Varying Tide” arouses mixed feel-
ings Thor: Two lines, then:
The hopeful migrants found with great
dismay
That jobs with ample pay did not abound.
... .M.E.P.: “Australian Anthem” —
appropriately, perhaps inflated
R.K.: Cut out your “mystical croon-
ing” and you might get somewhere.
Jay See: Your rude poem on
Darwin’s amenities would never do
for our more temperate regions
Candida: Faintly funny M.G.G.:
Let’s see what you can do on an
Australian theme.. ..G.G.A.; Both
rather slight L. Irish; Afraid nine
isn’t your lucky number... .J.K..: it
makes a nice Christmas-card....
W B • You do do a lot of hi-diddle-
dumming... .M.T.; A long way after
Tennyson.... R.H.: A glimmer in
“Summer”... .L.M. (R-A.N.I: “Part-
ing” the nearest G.E.McA.; Ovei
the hills and far away D.L.8.:
All too lush and wordy.
JIM GREGORY, THE DROVER.
There was much congratulation from
each friend and each relation
As the local word went round —“Both
doing well,”
And the cause of the sensation was young
Jim, a new creation —
Oh, the Gregorys were proud at Inverell.
Horses soon became his passion—and he
rode them any fashion,
With a saddle or without —he didn’t care;
He’d have even made a dash upon the
famous Bull of Bashan
If that quadruped had been round then
and there.
Leaving childish pranks behind him, up
in Brisbane town we find him,
Fully seventeen he was in ’9(i;
And his thoughts oft now remind him of
the mates who dined and wined him
When he won, and left the favorite in a
fix.
With a ruling predilection for north-
westerly direction,
He then made his way to Brunette Downs,
N.T.,
And ’twas there that the perfection of his
work drew quick detection
From the then head stockman, Jerry Con-
nolly.
F. J. White had bought the station —
quite a slice of our big nation—
And a place at Muswellbrook in New
South Wales;
Geographic separation and remoteness of
location
He considered the most minor of details.
In an earnest conversation with the stock-
men on the station
He outlined a droving trip to Muswell-
brook ;
“Far from being recreation,” said the
men in consternation,
“It’s ridiculous I It’s mad 1 The notion’s
crook!”
But twelve hundred head were mustered
and the milling cattle clustered.
Then in swirling dust they thundered
down the tracks;
Well-trained men, they never blustered;
though they cursed, they never flus-
tered,
And their stockwhips woke West Queens-
land with their cracks,
As they kept to watercourses there was
drink for mob and horses.
But they struck it dry down near the
Melon Hole;
And they pushed the beasts perforce as
no natural resources
Offered aid with which to keep their
numbers whole.
Though his epithets are gory Jimmy often
tells the story
Of those eighteen hundred battling mulga
miles
Of accomplishment and glory, from the
Northern Territory—
“ Two head lost in seven months,” old
Jimmy smiles.


CRIPPLING #
RHEUMATIC
PAINS
quickly eased with
Dolcin, the result of
five years. Intensive
medical research has
brought relief to
thousands of suf-
ferers of complaints
within the Rheumatic
Groups. Dolcin gives
prompt and pro-
longed relief from the
painful symptoms of
r.c
Kheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Lumbago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc.
• OOLCIN Is non-toxic.
. DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical
profession.
• 1,100,000,000 tablets have been ad-
ministered throughout the world.
• DOLCIN is easy to take in 'tablet
form.
• DOLCIN Is obtainable from your
chemist.
DOLCIN
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
a gift for Christmas and
the years to follow
Give a Swan Pen for Christmas and
you give a handsome gift.
You give more—you give your friends
a companion they will cherish for
many a year to come a daily
reminder of your good will and your
good sense in choosing so very useful
a gift
Illustrated is Model 31 with lever
filling and 14 ct. gold nib. In a
variety of colours.
PRICE. 50 f -
There is a wide range of attractive Swan
models with nibs to suit every style of
writing.
tmin
PENS
df
al||fe 100 years of good writing
MABIE, TODD & CO. (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SI 0-62
Australian Historical Sketches
THE SAD DEMISE
OF MR. BOSTON’S PIG
By M. H. ELLIS
MR. JOHN BOSTON was
a young immigrant who
had come out in the
Surprize with the Scottish
martyrs in 1794, carrying a
letter of introduction from the
Colonial Office.
He had recommended himself
to the British Government as a
trained surgeon and apothecary,
versed in the arts of brewing, of
the making of vinegar and soap.
As a distiller he had recently
been unsuccessful, but this was
offset by the fact that he had
“theoretical and some practical
knowledge of agriculture.” The
Colonial Secretary became in-
stantly convinced that it would
be wise to give him a passage
to New South Wales “for the
particular purpose of undertak-
ing the curing of fish.”
He was not a popular figure
in the ship. He outdistanced the
Scottish seditionists in revolu-
tionary ardor, to the scandal of
Captain Campbell. He drank
damnation to the King and his
family and all crowned heads,
declaring them to be “absolute
tyrants who ought to be extir-
pated from the face of the
earth.” He inveighed against
the new war with France as a
King’s war which would “pre-
sently be ended by the people”
—who, until they followed the
example of France, could con-
sider themselves in a state of
slavery. He shouted that he was
a Jacobin and that he would
undertake to raise thirty thou-
sand rebellious democrats in
arms in the town of Birmingham
within fourteen days.
And when mutiny reared its
ugly head in the ship he was on
its side, announcing that he owed
nothing to the British Govern-
ment under whose auspices he
was travelling.
In fact, he was a “complete
anarchist,” beside whom the
treasonous wretches in the Sur-
prize, some of whom were being
exiled for distributing “seditious
and inflammatory writings, and
particularly a book or pamphlet
entitled The Works of Thomas
Paine, Esquire ” were mere tyros
in rebellion.
It is easy to understand that
if Mr. Boston’s reputation was
advertised in Sydney, as it un-
doubtedly was, by Captain
Campbell, he would scarcely be
a popular figure in war-time,
especially among officers who
held the King’s Commission in
the fighting services. But all had
gone well with Mr. Boston at
first, and now, on a warm day
in October, 1795, a month or so
after Governor Hunter had
landed, he stood at the window
of his cosy cottage happily
watching his sow.
She was a lovely sow, sleek,
clean, well-nourished and a
good forager on other people’s
grounds. Also, she was enceinte
—it would be rude to use any
coarser term to describe the
delicate condition of so fair a
fifteen-guineas-worth of hog-
flesh. Mr. Boston’s entranced
eyes followed her as she wan-
dered unhindered into the near-by
“close” of Captain Foveaux, all
oblivious that the hand of fate
was over her in the form of a
Government and General Order
which read:
Headquarters,
July 17th, 1793.
All hogs seen in the streets that
are not yoked and have not rings in
the nose are to be shot.
As Mr. Boston turned away
from the window, with a sigh
of satisfaction, there was a
sound like the crack of doom,
and the smell of powder
poisoned the air. Upon the red-
dening earth Mr. Boston’s lovely
sow lay dead, as Mr, Boston
noticed all too clearly.
Not far away from where she
weltered in her innocent blood
Private William Faithfull was
reloading his Brown Bess, while
Quartermaster Laycock, in scar-
let coat and powdered queue,
looked on smiling, supported by
Lieutenant Neil M’Kellar and
Private Eady. No doubt the
countenances of all these dis-
tinguished members of the New
South Wales Corps bore expres-
sions of grim satisfaction.
Nothing, of course, could be
calculated to enrage an anarchist
more than the destruction of
fifteen-guineas-worth of real
property: so Mr. Boston rushed
out into the street shouting,
“Who is the damned rascal who
shot my pig ?”
Now it was a well-known fact
at the beginning of the 19th
century that no member of the
military forces could be de-
scribed in such terms without
endangering somebody’s life or
skin. Mr. Laycock raised a
languid eyebrow. He asked
Private Faithfull, that intelligent
ancestor of so many opulent
Australian graziers, if he had
heard Mr. Boston call him a
rascal. Mr. Faithfull said “Yes.”
Mr. Laycock then ordered him
to thrash Mr. Boston, and Mr.
Faithfull was only too ready to
oblige.
Using his loaded musket as a
cudgel, he prepared to lay-on
with that vigor and enthusiasm
which a right-minded private
soldier should always display
when obeying an order.
Mr. Boston espied a convict
farm-worker strolling by with
an axehead attached to a corn-
stalk over his shoulder, and
attempted to make this weapon
his own as a means of self-
defence, and had he done so no
doubt blood would have been
shed. But the astonished Govern-
ment peon resisted a moment
too long, and, before Mr. Boston
could arm himself, Mr. Faithfull
caught him hard on the back of
his cranium with the barrel of
his musket, breaking the ramrod,
but apparently making not
even a dent on the hard, anar-
chistic surface of Mr. Boston.
Then Mr. Laycock invited
Private Eady to try his luck, and
all was uproar. Mr. Boston
yelled “Murder!” Mr. Laycock
yelled “Thrash him!” Mrs.
Boston materialised out of a
dust-cloud, shrieking like a
banshee, having heard Private
Eady enjoined to lather the
victim “as long as he has life.”
And, under cover of the diver-
sion which she created, Mr.
Boston set out for the horizon
at a jack-rabbit’s pace.
Everybody who was fortunate
enough to be in the vicinity
agreed that it had been an excel-
lent performance—far better
even than that called “The Fair
Penitent,” which was being
staged at the new theatre, and
which could be seen for an
entry-fee of half-a-pint of spirits
—this including the price of the
right to pick pockets, if chance
offered.
The ego of the settlement
swelled visibly when it became
known that the incident was a
definite milestone in orderly
progress and that Mr. Boston
had issued a writ claiming £2OO
damages from the soldiery, thus
instituting the first civil action
for damages which had been
beard of in New South Wales.
Antipodean culture, undoubtedly,
was looking up ; and those who
read the classic affidavit which
formed the staple of Mr. Bos-
ton’s pleadings could have hac
no doubt but that he would give
spectators at the historic hearing
full value for their money.
He averred-on-oath that he
could not allow himself to think
that his opponents would be so
“daringly wicked as to ad-
duce in this court, to support
an untenable plea, a train of
perjured witnesses” ; but if this
should be attempted he “con-
fided in the consciousness of
having it in his power, by
characters directly the reverse,
and superior to suspicion, to
overthrow their testimony and
to consign them to merited
punishment and infamy.”
The court assembled: Messrs.
Collins, Atkins, Balmain (the
acting-surgeon) and Captain
George Johnston. The contest
raged all through December,
1795,
The people, free and other-
wise, attended the hearing in
some force and cheered —though
discreetly sotto voce their
favorites. The betting was
heavy. The proceedings were
carried on with “a very
indecent degree of warmth” and
“lack of realisation of the respect
due to a court of justice.”
Mr. Boston delivered an
oration which would have made
Cicero turn green with envy,
and, having a fine sense of the
dramatic, went about complain-
ing that his life was threatened
and that he was afraid to go
home in the dark—or daylight,
for that matter.
But in the end justice was
duly done. Messrs. Laycock and
Faithfull were found guilty
under provocation, and Mr.
Boston was awarded a contemp-
tuous 20s. damages, which en-
raged him more than if he had
received nothing, this, especially,
because the court thought that
he “might have bridled his
passion.”
Private Faithfull, who was
“proper Dorset,” was almost
equally indignant, it seems, for
he appealed against the verdict
to the Governor’s Court —his
pleadings were signed with his
mark, since he could not write
his name. Perhaps, however, the
indignation was not his. Mr.
Boston interpreted the plea upon
which the appeal was based to
mean that Mr. Faithfull con-
sidered that he had acted under
the orders of a superior and in
the status of a peace-officer and
that he had merely used his
musket as a wand of office when
he had brought it down on Mr.
Boston’s resistant skull.
Governor Hunter, who loved
to utter judgments and homilies,
seems to have enjoyed the whole
affair. He sat in person as appeal
judge, listened with a stern, set
face to the evidence and to the
thunderous exposition which Mr.
Boston gave of the rights of
British citizens under the British
Constitution, an outmoded in-
strument for which, though an
anarchist and a professed Jaco-
bin, Mr. Boston seemed to have
developed a peculiar respect.
Eventually the Governor found
that the assault .complained of
had been fully proved, and (said
he) “I do not only confirm the
verdict already found by the
court in which this cause was
tried, but I must add that I have
thought it a very lenient one.”
It is pleasant to know that no
permanent ill came to anybody
concerned, except to the pig,
which was dead. Quartermaster
Laycock waxed prosperous, and
his descendants more prosperous
and illustrious still —one suc-
ceeded Lord Louis Mountbatten
in command of the Commandos
in World War 11.
Captain Foveaux, whose
“close” the pig had invaded,
died at a ripe old age as a
lieutenant - general. The grass
which Mrs. Dennis had eaten
had no marked effect on his
prosperity. For Private William
Faithfull the beneficial results
of the adventure far outweighed
the disadvantages of being fined
a pound.
Captain Foveaux took him
into his employment, and when
retiring from the colony started
him off on a pastoral career
with some of his own sheep.
Marrying a daughter of Robert
Matcham Pitt (a relative by
marriage of a brother-in-law to
Lord Nelson), he founded
a family whose name is
famous in Australian pastoral
history. Both he and his
eldest son, William Pit
Faithfull, were pioneers of the
land along Mulwaree Ponds on
the Goulburn Plains. The son
founded the famous Springfield
stud, the oldest registered Merino
stud to remain in a family unti
modern days. He also was
pioneer of the Monaro. He
married the daughter of a rich
Englishman of good family. His
brother George was one of the
first men to take cattle into Vic-
toria, and settled in the Wan-
garatta district, dying unmarried.
William Pitt Faithfull became
a figure in politics over 15 years.
His eldest son, grandson of Mr.
Boston’s assailant, who lived till
1924, was a well-known pastor-
alist. A second son’s name will
always be associated with the
great stations of Brewarranna,
near Wagga, and Inveralochy,
in the Goulburn district. The
third son, Henry Montagu, who
became a solicitor and married
the daughter of Sir Thomas
Buckland, of the Bank of New
South Wales, had an eldest
daughter who married Sir
Charles Wentworth Dilke, third
baronet, during World War I.
None of these three grandsons
of the original William Faithfull
shared his lack of erudition —
they were all Masters of Arts,
and one, Robert Lionel, was
an M.D., apart from being a
director of the Bank of New
South Wales, the C.S.R. Co. and
the Perpetual Trustees,
The last grandchild of Private
William Faithfull, who married
William Hughes Anderson, of
Camelot, Camden, died only
in 1948. Thus, between the
birth of the grandfather, who
was born in 1774 and reached
N. S. Wales in the Pitt on Feb-
ruary 13, 1792, and the death of
his granddaughter, almost 180
years elapsed. And in that period
the family fortunes had broad-
ened out till, taken in a lump,
they probably represented
£1,000,000 er more.
All their good fortune seems
to have stemmed from the ster-
ling service given to his com-
pany commander by that fine
old pioneer Williarm Faithfull,
who guarded Captain Foveaux’s
grass plots against the inroads
of anarchists and their porkers.


"Phenovis" Worm Remedy
&
\
m.
fa
w
tk
■a.*
“PHENOVIS”
THE OUTSTANDING WORM REMEDY
♦ ; . - , --s' ....
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
sdf
PHE.BX.BO
SPORTIMG NOTIONS
Veterans of the turf don’t
figure prominently in Australian
Cups’ statistics, but Swanbro,
winning favorite of the Queens-
land Cup, ridden by former
Sydney lightweight V. Faggotter,
is an aged gelding by Broccoli
from Peggy’s Best, He was the
first aged winner of the two-
miler in 50 years.
Swanbro has been a model of
consistency: he has won his last
four races and had seven wins
from 13 starts. The fact that he
has thus been sparsely raced
probably contributed to his
success at two miles as an aged
galloper. At one stage of the
Cup he was 10 lengths in front.
He won by the best part of two
lengths from Lariat and Bar
Sinister. Time, 3.23, was only
fair. It was Faggotter’s second
win in the Queensland Cup.
Four years ago he scored on
Sydney-owned Hurry Up.
Quite a number of A.J.C.
members are giving a picnic
atmosphere to Warwick Farm
meetings. They leave the city
early and arrive at the course at
least an hour before the opening
event. Luncheon hampers are
unpacked and a snack with tea
or other light refreshment is the
order under the shady trees. The
suburban track, which is a little
more than 20 miles from town,
could be developed into a
popular rendezvous. The A.J.C.
has spent many thousands of
pounds on the area, and it looked
at its best for latest fixtures.
Culzean was one of four win l
ning favorites at the Warwick
Farm meeting, at which book-
makers experienced yet another
losing day. It seems punters are
following a year-by-year experi-
ence at this time of the season,
when they manage to pick quite
a number of short - priced
winners, especially in two-year-
old events.
Culzean is a compact son of
Midstream (imp.) from Scotch
Gift, a mare bred in 1941 by a
well-known Queensland stud-
master, J. G. McDougall, of
Lyndhurst stud, Warwick. Scotch
Gift is by The Buzzard (imp.)
from Blue Skirt by Seremond
(imp.) from ‘Nautch Girl by Syce
(imp.) and tracing back to a
noted stayer of the early years,
Trenton. With such a staying
background Culzean should
develop into a stayer with a year
or two on to his age. He
certainly won his first race like
a good horse. Maurice Mc-
Carten trains him for H. M.
Douglass and K. G. Luke.
Scotch Gift will be remembered
as a winner on Sydney courses a
few seasons ago carrying the
Douglass colors.
Leading jockey Neville
Sellwood won his first race at
Warwick Farm when he piloted
Culzean to victory.
Wasn’t the tip! Two young
swallows rested in a nest on a
ledge above the tote-manager’s
room in the official stand at
Warwick Farm all Saturday
afternoon. They had not reached
the flying stage. Hundreds of
club members saw the fledglings,
and many women took the tip
for Two Birdies for the Second
Cawdor Stakes. However, Two
Birdies, a 7-to-l chance, let her
hunch-punters down and ran
only fourth. Still, the race was
at least won by a “bird,” Sky
Hawk.
Prior to racing at Warwick
Farm last Saturday, Carioca was
favorite for the A.J.C. Villiers
Stakes, one mile, to be run on
December 20. He is now a
warmer favorite than befdre fol-
lowing his almost effortless win
in the Camden Handicap with
8.7, five pounds more than his
Villiers weight. It was Carioca’s
fourth success in a row, and the
second Saturday at the Farm on
which he established new race
records. Despite his remarkable
fitness and winning form, Forest
Beau, who hadn’t raced since
May last, was, for a time, quoted
at 6 to 4, but Carioca firmed to
twos, at which price he started
equal favorite with Forest Beau.
Forest Beau ran an excellent
second, and should be all the
better for the race. He is
engaged in the Villiers with 8; 11,
and in the Summer Cup with
8.9. On weights Carioca appears
to have the wood on Forest
Beau in the mile, but it mightn’t
turn out that way. Carioca’s
trainer, P. (“Duck”) Hoysted,
doesn’t believe in keeping horses
to look at. He wins races while
he can, and Carioca’s four in a
row show that Hoysted is mak-
ing full use of opportunities. He
will probably give the five-year-
old more races before the
Villiers.
• • f •
Until this season Carioca was
an almost unknown quantity. He
won a maiden event at Eagle
Farm (Q.) in August, 1950, and
later was successful in N.S.W.,
at Albury and Hawkesbury.
Those efforts were small affairs
compared with recent four-in-
a - row impressive successes.
Carioca has been lightly raced,
which probably has had a
beneficial effect. Now a five-
year-old, he is raced and
trained by P. Hoysted at War-
wick Farm, the trainer having
him on lease from J. Booshand
until next July. Bred in N.S.W.
by H. P. Bailey, Carioca is by
Felt Yet from Sing Again, by
Australian Sun (imp.).
The curtain came down on big
Melbourne spring events when
Morse Code won his second race
in succession, and landed many
big bets at 7 to 2 in Caulfield’s
Eclipse Stakes. Despite the fact
that he started second favorite
some punters didn’t like the
result. Ron Hutchinson rode
Morse Code, and the biggest
section of the crowd cheered
him, and no doubt some of the
booing ones did likewise when
Ron won the next flat event, the
Pelham Handicap, on 6-to-l
Chequin.
Big disappointment of the
Eclipse Stakes was the failure of
Sydney-trained Davey Jones,
7-to-4 favorite, to gain place-
money. He’s probably had
enough for the time being. The
previous week he finished second
in the Williamstown Cup to
Morse Code. Back in Sydney,
Davey Jones’s future programme
is to be decided this week by
“ Where's the ear, nose and throat department ?”
trainer Maurice McCarten. The
New Zealand-owned horse is top-
weight with 9.7 in the A.J.C.
Summer Cup to be run on
December 26.
Victorian owner-breeder E. A.
Underwood has probably lost
count of the races he has won
with horses of his own breeding.
Another name was added to the
list at Caulfield last Saturday,
when Sea Girt won the First
Stansmore Two-Year-Old at 10-
to-9-on. One of R. Sinclair’s
team, the colt is by well-known
sire Dhoti (imp.) from The Rip,
a Midstream (imp.) mare from
Passage by Salamis (Eng.) from
Dark Way (imp.) by Dark
Legend. Walu was the only
youngster backed with any con-
fidence to beat Sea Girt, but third
was best he could manage.
Maelstrom, a former Sydney
galloper, won the Tara Steeple
at 10 to 1. Backers at Caulfield
had a poor day, culminating in a
66-to-l win by Rocket Gun.
* * * *
The N.S.W. lawn tennis
championships at White City
over the past week or so pro-
duced nothing to alter the con-
viction that the Davis Cup is a
moral to stay in these parts for
another year or so. The dis-
heartening fact, from the Ameri-
cans’ viewpoint, is that Aus-
tralia can field two completely
separate teams, either of which,
on the evidence available, would
be too solid for what the
Americans seem to have on
hand.
Fresh back from his first
overseas tour, and showing the
tremendous improvement that
can be wrought in a young
player by such a tour, Ken Rose-
wall demonstrated that, at just-
turned-18, he is very nearly ready
to take his place in a Davis Cup
team. In contrast to the steady
string of “big”- or “power”-
game exponents we have pro-
duced over the past decade
under the influence of such
American world - beaters as
Kramer, Schroeder and the rest,
Rosewall is almost purely a base-
line player, but he shows that
the day of the “straightbacks is
not done; that the classical
stroke perfectionist, playing
with rock steadiness, perfect
control and split-hair accuracy
from the baseline, can more than
cope with the net-storming,
crash-bang stylists. Indeed, he
can make them look, on occa-
sions, surprisingly foolish. Rose-
wall was going great guns in the
tournament —eliminating, among
others, the American Straight
Clark —till he bumped Sedg-
man in the semi-finals.
Aside from the recognised big-
guns, the surprise-packets of the
N.S.W. tournament were the
young Victorian Hartwig, living
right up to everything his ad-
mirers have been predicting of
him for a couple of years past,
and the emergence of yet
another outstanding doubles
team in Rose and Candy. Rose
and Candy have been playing
together with fair success for
quite a while, but (again showing
the benefits derived from a world
tour) they are now right in the
top flight, and likely to beat all-
comers. At White City they did
beat, in the final, the world’s No.
1 ranking team, Sedgman and
McGregor, with the final scores
9-7, 2-6, 6-4, 8-10, 6-3. It was
a tremendous match: quite the
best of the tourrfament.
Hartwig, one of the hard-hit-
ting, net-rushing breed, played
the inspired tennis you do
occasionally see produced by a
player with everything to gain
and nothing to lose. His “finest
hour,” as it were, was his tremen-
dous marathon match with the
American captain Seixas. With
the power on from both players
all the way, that match went to
two-sets-all and 12-all in the final
set before failing light caused
play to be suspended. Next
morning they played the final
set from scratch again, and
Seixas knew he was playing
before he clinched it —only to
be then comfortably eliminated
by that consistent giant-killer
Mervyn Rose,
As compensation for Hartwig,
he and the American lass, Julie
Sampson, upset calculations by
beating Miss Sampson’s team-
mate, world-champion Maureen
Connolly, partnered by Hoad, in
the final of the mixed. Follow-
ing last year’s practice, and what
this page urged for years before
the authorities saw the light, top
members of the Davis Cup squad
gave the mixed doubles a miss.
After McGregor had easily
disposed of Rose (his vanquisher
on several past occasions and
chosen in preference to Mc-
Gregor for the last Davis Cup
challenge) it was a Sedgman-
McGregor singles final —not a
great match. Sedgman was well
below his best, but he produced
a glimpse of his best whenever
it was called for, to win 6-2, 4-6,
6-4, 6-2.
So there’s the Australian line-
up ; Sedgman, Rose, McGregor ;
such doubles teams as Sedgman-
McGregor and Rose-Candy;
and such spares as Rosewall,
Hartwig and Hoad. As a matter
of fact, on the form they showed
in the tournament, with Quist
taking Sedgman to five sets in
the toughest match the cham-
pion had thrbughout, even the
old firm of Bromwich and Quist
looked as though they wouldn’t
disgrace themselves as our Cup
reps. The Americans seem to
have the job ahead of them, but,
win, lose or draw, it’s a pleasure
to have them here, under such
a fine sportsman and gentleman
as Vic Seixas —the complete
antidote to the very nasty taste
left by Larsen and a couple of
other ill-chosen American rep-
resentatives seen (and heard!)
here in recent years.
* * * *
N.S.W. defeated S. Africa by
five wickets in an interesting
tussle. The visitors could per-
haps have averted defeat had
they stuck to negative cricket
towards the end. Instead they
kept the game alive ; N.S.W. to
get the runs or get out. They
got ’em. S. Africa 202 (Endean
77; Lindwall 5-30) and 360
(Endean 95, McLean 56, Fun-
ston 54, Murray 51 ; Benaud
4- ; N.S.W. 289 (Craig 71,
Morris 55 ; Tayfield 6-117) and
5- (Barnes 79 n. 0.; Murray
3-
Victoria also may have saved
an outright defeat by S. Aus-
tralia had Hassett decided on
dead-bat play in the second dig.
Instead the Victorian batsmen
tended to be reckless, and S.
Australia got there by seven
wickets. S. Aus. 326 (Dansie
77, Duldig 61, Hole 57 ; Iverson
4- and 3-120; Victoria 119
and 325 (Hassett 91, Chambers
53, Thoms 51 ; Wilson 4-86).
To some extent a First Test
trial, Victoria and N.S.W. got
into holts last Friday. Big-
gest contribution in Victoria’s
first-innings 347 was 169 by
former Test man Sam Loxton,
who has been having a pretty
lean time for several seasons.
For N.S.W. Barnes was also at
his best.
The S’Africans had their first
outright win in Australia against
N.S.W. Country at Newcastle.
They had no trouble with the
local pace bowlers Bull and
Pickles, who had devastated the
1950 Englishmen and last year’s
West Indians. In a hit-or-miss
finish the visitors hit up 77 in
half-an-hour to win. S. Africa
261 (McGlew 78 ; Roxby 8-109)
and 3-77; N.S.W. Country 118
(Mansell 5-49, Murray 3-32) and
8-219, closed (R. Beattie 59).
He * * *
Outstanding contenders for
the middleweight title, Harry
Hayes (10-13) and Alfie Sands
(10-13) gave the customers at
Leichhardt a rare run for their
money. Hayes got the verdict
on points, by virtue of continu-
ally beating Alfie to the punch,
but Sands never stopped attack-
ing, and, always the stronger,
he had the customers expecting
a k.o. right to the finish. Briefly,
Hayes was too soon and too
fast for him. One of the best
scraps seen hereabouts for a
long time.
Another member of the
Sands kindred, cousin Arthur
Ritchie —the Sandses’ real sur-
name is Ritchie —impressed in
the supporting 12-rounder. Op-
posed., to Eddie Marks (8-13),
Ritchie (8-12) kept punching
with his opponent in red-hot
toe-to-toe rallies, dropped
Marks for “eight” in session six
and won on a t.k.o. in the
seventh.


The
Mutual Life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co.. Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £81,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£13,000,000.
M. O. ALDER, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
KEEP mom SAFE)
ytiPittz'
SANDERS
d^j&^FlLE!
Correspondence. ln»olc«
•latementa. etc., filed in the
“Sander*" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month -
any other period.
ff-Vai r S'-
Prices and fur-
ther information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH •• ..Docket Book 00. (Aust)
;
With the electric welding kit with a thousand uses. Welds cratks and
holes in car bodies, mudguards, radiators, etc. Repairs motor-cycles,
domestic appliances, sheet metal work, etc. It solders and brazes, too.
Many useful articles can be made such as Station Wagon Bodies, Radio
Chassis, Caravan Bodies, etc. ..... .
The kit is easy to operate and it quickly pays for itself in time and money
saved. Works from 6-volt or 12-volt battery. Call in for free demonstra-
tion of welding or send now for this complete welding kit; comprising
a high-grade welding tool, 10 feet of welding cable and 3 battery clips,
assortment of welding rods, flux, electrodes, and complete working instruc-
This welding kit is the only one sold in Australia with a 6-point guarantee:
ixm
IMIOd
9
• Fully guaranteed for two years.
• The only kit sold fully complete.
a After sales service. Renewals of welding
rods, electrodes, etc., can be supplied at small
cost.
• Free technical service. After purchase you
may at any time write to us for further
instructions free.
• We guarantee you will become proficient at
welding. The quality of the welding kit, plus
the complete instructions and free technical
service gives you every aid to Weld skilfully.
• Satisfaction guaranteed or money refunded
in full. . ,
This complete welding kit, instructions, and 6 point guarantee
will be mailed to you for £4/15/6. Write NOW. You risk
nothing. Send for your kit TODAY. POST COUPON NOW.
PACIFIC HOME SUPPLIES,
378 Burnley Street, Burnley, Victoria.
Enclosed is £4/15/6. Please send me complete Welding Kit
and six point guarantee. If at the end of 14 days I do not wish
to keep it. I will return it in good order, and you will refund
my £4/15/6 in full. Please write in BLOCK CAPITALS'.
NAME
ADDRESS* mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
R.M.
Shipwreck and a Lost Treasure
INCIDENT AT
Montebello
By RESTAURATOR
Montebello islands
had this name given to
them by Captain Baudin,
who, with a French
expedition, explored them in
March, 1803, and named them
in honor of the Duke of Monte-
bello, Napoleon’s Marshal
Lannes.
But long before Baudin’s visit
the islands had received the name
of the Tryals or Tryal Rocks,
and as such they appear, very
much displaced in longitude, on
the oldest surviving chart of the
coast of Western Australia ; that
of Hessel Gerrits, printed in
1627.
This earlier name links to the
first recorded landing of English-
men from an English ship on
what is now a part of the
Commonwealth.
In 1621 the position of the
English East India Company in
Java and the Spice Islands was
precarious. Its available cash
was almost exhausted and its
credit stretched to the limit.
Unless a new supply of money
could arrive promptly its trade
must come to a standstill. The
rajah who supplied the pepper-
trade in which was the mainstay
of the company’s operations—
had demanded that for the next
year’s crop he should be paid in
gold sequins. Unless these could
be obtained the company would
get no pepper, and its ships
would have to go home only
partly laden.
In London, the directors,
informed of these difficulties, set
about sending out what pieces-
of-eight, gold sequins and pro-
visions they could, appointing
John Brooke—a sea-captain who,
whatever his other qualifications
may have been, lacked all experi-
ence of eastern waters —to carry
them out in their ship the Tryal.
He sailed in her from
Plymouth on September 4, 1621,
with about 143 souls on board,
and made slow progress south-
ward to the Cape, where, at the
beginning of the following
March, he put in for supplies.
Brooke was beginning to feel
a lack of confidence in himself
and in his officers, none of whom
was any better acquainted with
the route than he himself was.
In those days of inadequate
charts and clumsy instruments
experience of the route was a
very desirable qualification for
a navigator; perhaps even more
than skill in finding the latitude
or estimating the distance run.
Brooke accordingly tried to
persuade one or other of the
mates of a home-bound India-
man, the Charles, which he
found in Table Bay, to go back
with him to Java.
Neither of the officers was
willing to postpone his home-
coming for another year, and
both refused the appointment.
Captain Bickley of the Charles,
however, gave his fellow-captain
the benefit of his experience, as
far as it went.
He advised Brooke to cross the
Indian Ocean by the newly-
tested southern route, and to run
4000 miles to the east in about
40deg. S. before altering his
course to the north-east for
Sunda Straits at the west end of
the island of Java.
+ +
Brooke was in possession of
sailing directions for this route
in the form of a journal kept by
Captain Fitzherbert, who had
followed it in the Royal
Exchange in 1620, “on the advice
of the Flemings.” In the Tryal
there was also a chart of the
Indian Ocean, which showed
about fifty miles of the coast of
Western Australia between
North-west Cape and Point
Cloates, the part now known as
Cloates Land.
Unfortunately, instead of its
being shown in its correct longi-
tude, to the southward of the
eastern end of Java, this piece
of coast was laid down as bear-
ing south-westerly from the west
end of that island ; a displace-
ment of more than a thousand
miles! How it came to appear
on the chart at all is one of the
mysteries of geographical
history; its existence in that
position may be a clue which will
lead to the disclosure of a Euro-
pean visit to the coast earlier
than that of Dirck Hartog, at
present regarded as its first
discoverer.
On March 19, 1622, the Tryal
sailed from Table Bay (then
called by the English Saldania)
to follow the southern route to
Sunda Straits.
In Java the arrival of the
moneys required tg revive the
company’s languishing trade was
eagerly awaited. As far back as
the previous November notice
had been received of the Tryal’s
intended sailing with, as well as
the sequins, a stock of provisions
for the merchants. At the begin-
ning of March her arrival was
daily expected. European food-
stuffs were almost exhausted.
By the end of March the
merchants began to worry. They
tried to comfort one another
with assurances that she must
have fallen to leeward of the
straits and would come in when
the monsoon changed.
But the monsoon changed, the
weeks passed, provisions and
money diminished and anxiety
grew.
May came and went . . . and
the first weeks of June. Then
the blow fell.
On June 25 a skiff with
Captain Brooke and ten other
ragged starvelings sailed into the
harbor of Batavia and reported
that the Tryal had been lost a
month before, on a submerged
reef in latitude 20deg. S., longi-
tude uncertain.
There might, they believed, be
a few survivors other than them-
selves ; and the company’s
treasure might still come to
hand. That depended on
whether the ship’s long-boat
succeeded in reaching some safe
port. The long-boat’s capacity,
however, was limited, so the
greater part of the passengers
and crew must be given up for
lost.
But hopes that the treasure
might have been saved vanished
three days later, when the long-
boat, with 36 haggard and weary
men, made Batavia without it.
The two boatloads of survivors
told the story. The Tryal had
crossed the Indian Ocean with
favorable winds, and on May 1
had sighted Cloates Land. Its
being falsely laid down in their
chart led them to believe that
Sunda Straits lay to the north-
east instead of to the north-west
of them. Brooke conferred with
his officers, and, together, they
consulted Fitzherbert’s journal
for guidance. They decided that
they should steer north-east as
soon as the wind, which was then
from that quarter, became fair.
For Jhree weeks they beat to
and fro off North-west Cape ;
declining to take advantage of
the north-easterly winds which
would have carried them safely
to their destination ; waiting for
the change of wind which would
carry them to destruction.
On May 24 the change came:
the wind went round to the
south-east, and they set their
course north-east. Even then
they might have been safe, had
not Brooke decided that the
agreed course was too northerly,
and ordered the steersman to
bring the ship’s head a point
nearer the wind.
That order was fatal. It
carried the Tryal close-hauled
straight for a reef which fringes
the Montebello Islands on their
northern side.
At about 11 o’clock next night
in fair weather and with a
smooth sea the Tryal ran gently
on that reef ; so gently that some
of the watch on deck did not
believe that she had struck a
reef at all. They were soon
undeceived. The captain was
instantly on deck and ordered
the yards to be braced round so
as to bring the sails a-back and
force the ship’s head off. The
manoeuvre was unavailing. It
was too late. The sharp coral
had penetrated the bilges and
the ship had begun to fill. As
she settled on the reef the wind
increased and the sea started to
get up.
The skiff had been launched to
take soundings immediately the
ship struck. For two hours the
crew struggled on the heaving
and shuddering deck to get the
long-boat over the side. After
what, must have seemed an
eternity they succeeded, and
began to provision her. But all
was confusion ; what one man
put in on one side another threw
out on Jhe other.
Brooke went to the great cabin
under the poop, below the
window of which the skiff lay
to her painter. While he was
there signs that the ship was
about to break-up appeared.
The crew of the skiff, among
whom were the mate and
Brooke’s young son, called to
Brooke to save himself. He lost
his head, slid down the rope into
the skiff, and gave the order to
cast off. The crew hoisted the
sail and the tiny boat stood
away for Java in the dark.
In the skiff were 10 men, 401 b.
of bread and a small quantity of
spirits. They were over 600
miles from the nearest known
inhabited land and nearly as far
again from Batavia. It rained
incessantly, however, and,
though the boat was, for most
of the time, half-swamped, they
were saved from death by thirst.
After 14 perilous days they made
the east end of Java, and, in
another fortnight, they had
reached the newly - founded
Dutch capital.
+ +
It was obvious to those
remaining on board the Tryal,
abandoned by their two senior
officers, that few of them had
any chance of being saved. At
four o’clock in the morning
Thomas Bright (the purser) and
35 others managed to crowd into
the long-boat and shoved off.
And left the rest to drown.
Nothing could have been done
for them ; the ship was breaking
up and no land was known to
be near. The long-boat stood by
the wreck until daylight; more,
it would seem, from some sense
of obligation to see the tragedy
out to its end than from any
expectation of saving any of the
unfortunates left on board. The
sea was too high now to allow
the boat to come within a quarter
of a mile of the reef, and she
was even more slenderly pro-
visioned for the number of her
crew than the skiff had been. A
hundredweight of bread and a
little wine constituted her whole
stock.
When dawn came at last, the
crew sighted the northmost of
the Montebello Islands some 15
miles away to the south-east of
them apd, with numbed hearts,
they gave way for it. As they
drew nearer they saw that it
formed part of a scattered group
of barren sandy islands, islets
and reefs. Later in the morning
they beached their boat on
Hermite Island and went ashore.
They stayed there for seven days,
making preparations for their
hazardous voyage to Java. There
was no water on the island, but
they had a number of empty
barricoes in the boat and the
Lord sent them a supply “per
rayne.” They walked all over
the island, but found nothing of
the slightest value for their
purposes.
After this short and un-
profitable stay they set sail to
the northward, reaching Batavia
just after their captain had
arrived there in the skiff. On
their way they visited the scene
of their disaster. There was not
the slightest sign of the Tryal;
the surface of the sea was as
empty as it had been before her
coming. Perhaps some encrusted
brass guns still lie in the shallow
water on the western side of the
reef to mark her resting-place.
From Batavia, Bright wrote to
his friend Andrew Elam, the
bookkeeper of the East India
Company in London, describing
Captain Brooke as a “Judasse.”
He prayed the Lord to deliver
him, he said, “from ever going
to sea with him or the like, with-
out great repentance” ; and he
added that he was fearful that, in
future, “God would not give a
blessing to what he takes in
hand.”
Bright’s fears were realised.
After commanding a small vessel
engaged in local trading in the
East, Brooke was appointed to
take home a richly-laden ship to
England, and lost her in the
Channel. This was too much for
the directors. They had the
unfortunate captain arrested and
held prisoner in Dover Castle
for many months. At last,
satisfied that he had nothing out
of which he could make amends,
they reluctantly accepted his
humble apology and agreed to
his release.
What became of the Tryal’s
treasure no one knows. Bright,
who, as we have seen, had little
love for his former captain, hints
that Brooke took it with him in
the skiff.
Brooke, on the other hand,
wrote to the company a circum-
stantial account of having had it
placed in the long-boat. Perhaps
it was thrown overboard in the
confusion of provisioning her ;
or perhaps some enterprising sea-
man carried it ashore on Hermite
Island and buried it. If so, it is
probably still there; and any
who may be visiting the island
on atom business may come
across a box or two of gold
sequins and pieces-of-eight.
All we know is that the
treasure never reached its
proper destination ; the company
was forced to close down its
trading-stations in the Spice
Islands for lack of funds; and
the Dutch were left predominant
in Indonesia.


sdf
1
fc'v:-
:<■: •••■
fay
L£WIs STUM
sd
Presented each week direct
from Hollywood, the
hilarious adventures of
Andy Hardy are firmly es-
tablished as a top listening
favorite with more than a million
Australians. Featuring Mickey
Rooney, Lewis Stone, Fay Holden—
the stars who made the M.G.M.
series famous—the warm, delightful
comedy of “The Hardy Family” is
radio entertainment at its best.
“The Hardy Family ” is presented with the good wishes
of the makers of Cadbury's Chocolate by the Macquarie
Broadcasting Service over a Commonwealth-wide Network
Produced by the Macquarie Broadcasting Service
2GB • 3AW • 4BH • SDN • 6IX • 7HO
2HR 2CA 2WL 2MW 2LT 3CV 6WB 6MD 7LA
and many other commercial broadcasting stations throughout
Australia.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FORMING THE NEW EUROPE
There are still some pretty
stiff hurdles to get over before
the goal of a new, united
Europe is reached. Serious dif-
ferences between France and
Germany over the Saar and the
European army (simmering all
along, and at times, as now, boil-
ing over) could wreck the lot
of it. But at least the obstacles
so far encountered have been
overcome.
So that, as London “Daily
Mail” notes, “Today a Federated
Europe, consisting of Western
Germany, Italy, France,
Belgium, Holland and Luxem-
burg, is about to come into
existence. At last it seems that
an age-old dream is to be
realised.”
If in due course the goal is
reached, and the main parts of
Western Europe are welded to-
gether, the historians will note
that all through the process the
American Press was optimistic
and encouraging, the British
Press, led by the “Times,” highly
sceptical.
In that, too, the Press of the
two countries has reflected the
respective official attitudes.
Successive British Governments
have been distinctly cold to the
scheme, and have even been
accused of hindering. The
“Daily Mail” blames the Attlees:
“Under Socialist rule Britain
paid lip-service to co-operation
with her neighbors, but refused
to co-operate unless they turned
Socialist. She rejected the
leadership which was rightly
hers.”
Conservatives, Too
That is historically correct; it
is also history that the Churchills,
till very lately, have not''been
exactly enthusiastic, either.
Even quite recently Paul
Reynaud had a bitter letter in
London “Times” on British
non-co-operation. He wrote:
“If the free peoples of Europe
did unite, they would oppose
264 million Europeans to the
200 million Russians, 457 million
tons of coal to 224 million, 54
million tons of steel to 27
million and so on. Alas! The
biggest coal and steel producer
refuses to participate in the pool
—and not a single one of my
British friends has yet been able
to give me a reasonable explana-
tion, now that the treaty is an
open book.
“Alas! As the same great
country refuses at the same time
to participate in the European
Army, it remains uncertain
whether the treaty creating the
army will be ratified. If it is
not ratified, we shall witness the
resurrection of the Wehrmacht,
with all the elements of trouble
that this implies for the relations
between allies, and with all the
threats for the future,”
Britain Changing
Signs of a changing outlook
in Britain towards a united
Europe have been noted by the
“Daily Mail”:
“British commentators are
awakening to the immense
importance of what is going on.
They say that Britain could be
overshadowed, and even
menaced, by this powerful com-
bination.”
A “New York Times” cor-
respondent has also reported on
this change:
“The reality of this movement
is reflected in the attitude of
Great Britain. When the
Schuman Plan was first proposed
the British summarily turned it
down as a distasteful and
visionary project. It could not
work, they said ; the Continental
sponsors of the plan retorted that
Britain did not wish it to work,
and kept on plugging, to the end
that this summer they set up a
supranational Authority for the
Coal and Steel Community and
laid the cornerstone of a new
European structure.
“The result was that London
insists on having an observer at
headquarters and Mr. Eden
hastened to Strasbourg to urge
the 14-nation Council of Europe
to establish close connection with
the six-nation new body—‘Little
Europe’—as a means of prevent-
ing the tail from wagging the
dog.
“And whereas for two years
the Continental States pleaded
with Britain to join the move-
ment for unity, and for a time
it looked as if the enterprise
would fail because of the nega-
tive attitude of both the Labor
and Conservative Governments,
now Britons complain that they
are being ‘left out’ of the plans
of their European neighbors.”
Rapid Strides
The pace has certainly been
rapid, culminating in the form-
ing, several months back, of the
nucleus for the Constituent
Assembly of this New Europe.
By March 10, 1953, it is hoped
Manchester “Daily Dispatch”
"AM I SUPPOSED TO BE IN THIS TEAM?”
to have at least a first draft of a
European Constitution.
“New York Times” hailed the
early-September meeting thus:
“Quietly, without fanfare,
ceremonial or oratory, 78 Parlia-
mentarians from the six nations
of the new Coal and Steel Com-
munity met on the banks of the
Rhine [at Strasbourg], the divid-
ing line of the old Europe, in the
Continent’s first supranational
Parliament. Thus the stubborn
belief of its sponsors that the
Schuman Plan was not only an
instrument for French-German
co-operation but the cornerstone
of a European federation is far
on the way to being realised.
“This is an event that might
well be heralded by the blare of
trumpets. Its importance can
hardly be exaggerated.
“The revolutions of peace are
usually slow transitions, set in
motion by one generation and
completed by another, but this
revolution in the political struc-
ture of Western Europe is pro-
ceeding with the speed of a
violent upheaval.
“It is made by men in a hurry
to finish the job.
-“The unanimous decision of
the Foreign Ministers of the six
nations [Coal and Steel Com-
munity] to advance by six
months the drafting of a poli-
tical Constitution shows how
swiftly the tide is rising.
“A year ago only a few
hopers-against-hope would have
believed that these nations would
actually put their most valuable
resources under supranational
control, much less that within a
month of the ratification of the
[Schuman] Plan the supra-
national Authority would be set
up, and they would be ready to
take the next step—the decisive
step toward a political unifica-
tion which involves a common
policy on defence, foreign affairs,
trade and finance.”
Magnet to Others
Though so far only six nations
are working together for the new
Europe, they include the main
ones, and the scheme is expected
to attract the others.
“It is bound to extend to the
rest of Western Europe,” fore-
casts “New York Times.” “It
is bound, moreover, to attract
and influence the restless nations
of the East, separated from the
European family and incor-
porated into an involuntary
union which cannot endure while
the unifying power is naked
force and terror.
“The new Assembly is also an
answer to those who doubt the
vitality and despair of the future
of Europe. The Europe of the
Schuman Plan is not a dying
Europe.
“The old continent which
cradled our civilisation, our
culture and the institutions of
law, order and human liberty by
which we live gave birth to the
most constructive idea evolved
since the war. Now we see that
it is resolved to carry out this
idea.”
Britain’s Place
London “Observer” com-
mented on the setting-up of the
Assembly to draft a New-Europe
Constitution:
“It is, of course, news of the
most vital importance for
Britain. If and when the new
Western European Federation is
established, Britain will live
doorstep to doorstep with a new
giant: a Power with a larger
population than America and a
larger industrial potential than
Russia.
“The emergence of this new
super-Power will completely alter
the nature and internal balance
of the Atlantic Community; it
will, in ways yet unforeseeable,
set into motion new pulls and
pressures in the unsettled and
disputed areas of Central and
Eastern Europe ; it will make its
presence felt throughout the
world as a new trade-centre and
power-factor.
“All this would deeply affect a
country as sensitive to interna-
tional shifts and changes as
Britain, even if it took place far
away. But it is taking place next
door to us; once the European
Union is in existence we [Britain]
shall be close neighbors of a
new Power vastly bigger than
ourselves, and we shall need a
very special relationship with
that Power, a relationship some-
what like that of Canada with
the United States, if we are not
to feel anxious about our own
security.
“It is perhaps partly because
we are daunted by the magni-
tude of these problems that we
are still trying to close our eyes
to them—to persuade ourselves
that the movement towards
European Federation need not
be taken quite seriously, that it
will somehow or other fail of its
own accord.
“We are likely to deceive our-
selves dangerously if we persist
in an attitude of superior
scepticism. The sober fact is
that for the last two years the
Union of France, Germany,
Italy and Benelux has developed
with almost incredible speed and
smoothness to a point where it
is already virtually in existence.”
London “Economist” sees one
reason—not a very reassuring
one—for Britain’s not worrying
over what it calls “this rapid
advance towards federation”:
“So long as America plays a
role in Europe, Britain has little
to fear from Western European
federation.”
Malenkov
“I would hate to meet him in (
a dark alley at night.” —Foreign
diplomat’'& reported view oj |
Malenkov, speculated on as
Joe’s successor.
“If,” says Harry Schwartz in
“New York Times,” “Malenkov
is truly Stalin’s heir-apparent, his
succession will surely have many
elements of irony.
“For then the ‘land of workers
and peasants’ will be ruled by
one who has never been either a
proletarian or a peasant, and
whose parents were almost cer-
tainly bourgeois. Then the
mantle of the chief theoretician
of the Communist world—-the
successor, in Soviet eyes, to
Marx, Engels, Lenin and Stalin
—will fall on one who has never
uttered a single new theoretical
idea, one who has, in fact, gone
to great lengths in his scant half-
dozen public speeches and
papers to make clear that he was
only parroting Stalin’s views.
“But despite this irony there
can be little doubt that symboli-
cally Malenkov is most fit to be
Stalin’s successor.
“No other leading contender
so epitomises in his own person
the gulf between the Stalinist
Russia of today and the Utopian
hopes of the Bolsheviks, who
triumphed in 1917. He is the
archetype of the men who have
risen to power under Stalin
through a combination of
favoritism, enormous industry,
talent and intrigue.
“A dweller in the shadows, he
has been content to be obscured
by Stalin’s looming figure while
sedulously profiting from the
major lesson of Stalin’s own
climb to power—the lesson that
the road to primacy in the
bureaucratic State is through
mastery over the power centre
where lesser bureaucrats are
named for key posts throughout
the country.
“And, as a Great Russian
[i.e., hailing from the part known
as “Great Russia”], Malenkov,
far better than the Georgian
Stalin, symbolises Great Russian
nationalism and pride of accom-
plishment which are now such
motivating features of Soviet life
and ideology.”
Malenkov, if he’s the pick (or
anyone else who may be), is
offered by London “World
Review” something nice and
cheerful to think about in the
meantime:
“He may care to reflect that
of the twenty-seven men who
have sat on the Politburo, only
Stalin survives of the Old Guard
of 1917. Six have died natural
deaths; two were assassinated;
five were executed ; one com-
mitted suicide and three disap-
peared during the Great Purge.


/
■e.
i
S.C.STMH
I fISTES'-s
"SV,
m
A/O
* t An
'A
7
PAVc*
i*
/?
Cf
&
<S.
-a
fe
w
03
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
KB. 110.18
It is not a comforting legacy, and
the disappearance in due course
of Stalin’s iron hand will, we
hope, increase his successor’s
insecurity.”
New Jap Army
Quite a lot was made at the
time of the ban on rearming
written into the Jap “democratic”
Constitution.
Despite it, however, Japan is
now definitely on the way to
rearming, and the' only question
is to what extent.
Already, reports London
“Times’s” Tokyo correspondent,
there is a National Police Re-
serve of 75,000 men equipped
with machine-guns, mortars,
bazookas and small arms, which
Prime Minister Yoshida has de-
scribed as “the cornerstone of
a new army.” There is also a
Maritime Safety Force of 164
small craft manned by 13,000
sailors.
“The trend towards larger
forces is clear to any observer
of the Japanese scene.
“Negotiations with America
are well advanced for the loan
of 68 vessels (18 frigates and 50
landing-ships) to be manned by
6000 sailors, and for the loan
of tanks and artillery for use by
an expanded National Police
Force (soon to be renamed
Public Security Corps) of 116,000
men. So far these forces con-
sist of volunteers attracted by
good terms, and conscription is
still a thing of the future.
“While some politicians main-
tain that the Constitution of
1947 will have to be amended
before wholehogging rearma-
ment is accepted as a national
policy, others—and these include
influential men like Mr. Shige-
mitsu, leader of the Progressive
party-—maintain that the Con-
stitution does not rule out the
right of national self-defence.”
Most significant, in the
“Times” man’s view, is the
number of former military and
naval officers who are urging
rearmament. Of these the most
prominent are former Admiral
Nomura (Ambassador to Wash-
ington at the time of Pearl
Harbor), former Vice-Admiral
Fukutome (one-time Chief of
Naval Operations), former Gen-
eral Shimomura (the last Army
Minister), former Lieutenant-
General Tatsumi (one-time Mili-
tary Attache for Japan in
London) and former Colonel
Tsuji (who planned the strategy
of land operations from Gaudal-
canal to Burma).
“These and other ex-officers
have openly offered advice to
American officials like Mr. John
Foster Dulles and to their own
Government. Their views differ
on the extent to which Japan
should rearm, but even the
‘moderates’ among them advo-
cate a standing army of 250,000
men, a navy of at least 100,000
tons and an air force of 1500
planes. They base their plans
partly on the size of the pro-
posed forces for Western Ger-
many, with a larger navy because
Japan is an island nation.”
Television Trouble
In the U.S. they have had
some trouble over televising
Congressional proceedings, espe-
cially various “hearings” or in-
quiries into doubtful matters,
such as the sensational ones
on the mixing of crime and
politics which were generally
held to have rather badly
damaged the Truman Admini-
stration.
Against televising such hear-
ings (“New York Times” re-
ported) it is argued that:
They put a witness at a dis-
advantage with the public be-
cause there is usually no right
of rebuttal or cross-examination.
They constitute an invasion of
the witnesses’ privacy. They give
the politicians an opportunity to
use legislative inquiries as elec-
tion-campaign forums. They
tempt the political committees
and their members to dwell on
the spectacular and play to the
audience.
In defence of televised hear-
ings, it is argued that :
As regards the rights of wit-
nesses TV is no different from
any other medium in which pro-
ceedings are reported ; any pos-
sible abuses should be corrected
by changes in committee pro-
cedure. The chief impetus to
correcting wrongs brought to life
by investigations comes from
the publicity they get—for which
TV is an effective medium. The
public gets a better estimate of
for the soundness of the World
Bank’s lending procedure is that
when a country wishes to bor-
row for some project no money
is advanced unless and until a
special field mission makes an
on-the-scene investigation of
the project’s feasibility and re-
ports favorably on it. Further,
once a loan is granted it is
closely supervised to guarantee
that it is put to work as effici-
ently as possible. The result is
that solid achievement can be
New York “Herald Tribune”
ONCE A VOLUNTEER, ALWAYS A VOLUNTEER
its representatives’ worth from
seeing them at work. The public
gets a better understanding of
public issues from the first-hand
view provided by TV.
And what whopping audiences
there would have been for such
a show as the Sydney liquor
inquiry televised!
A "Real" World Bank
Indicating the “ever-expand-
ing scale” of its operations “in
all parts of the globe,” the lend-
ings and methods of the World
Bank (International Bank for
Reconstruction and Develop-
ment) are briefly outlined by
“Washington Star”:
For their agricultural and in-
dustrial betterment 16 member-
countries during the past fiscal
year have received from the
bank loans amounting to almost
$300,000,000. , This figure—
which is the most that has been
advanced in a single 12-months
period since the establishment of
the 54-nation institution in 1944
—has brought all the bank’s
lending since 1947 to a total of
a bit more than $1,400,000,000.
This sum —the bulk of it in
dollars, though other currencies
are now being utilised in in-
creasing volume—has gone out
to 27 different lands to finance
the foreign-exchange costs of im-
ported equipment and services
needed to complete some 250
separate projects covering de-
velopment in such things as
farms, factories, transportation
and electric power. In addition,
the borrowers themselves in-
vested over $1,600,000,000 of
their own money in these pro-
jects, which means that the work
as a whole has involved an out-
lay of more than $3,000,000,000.
Loans: Western Hemisphere,
$329,000,000; Europe,
$202,000,000; Asia and the
Middle East, $129,000,000;
Africa, $125,000,000; Australia,
$100,000,000.
“This geographical distribu-
tion underscores the global
character of the enterprise,
which embraces all regions ex-
cept the Soviet empire. The
loans themselves, moreover,
have been doing their good de-
velopmental job on the basis of
very strict banking standards;
no ‘give-away’ has been
involved in them.
“Probably the biggest reason
expected whenever there is
agreement to finance a particu-
lar undertaking.
“The bank has set an excel-
lent example of how real head-
way can be made in promoting
human betterment by wise
economic investment.”
Injustice to Scotland
Maybe in retaliation over the
Stone of Scone, the British pur-
chase-tax on a kilt was at one
stage the monstrous amount of
12s. 4d. a yard.
Anyway, since the Stone was
returned the tax has dropped to
about 4s. 4d. But, as Edinburgh
“Scotsman” has pointed out, it
takes seven yards to make a
kilt; so there’s still the almost
prohibitive tax of 30s. 4d. on
these famous Highland weapons.
The injustice continues, a
move in the House of Commons
in the form of an amendment
to the Finance Bill having been
callously turned down, mainly
because, the “Scotsman” darkly
hints, Scotland hadn’t the fore-
sight to establish a clan Butler.
Not that the protestors are con-
cerned mainly over the 30s. 4d.;
it’s a matter of principle:
“What they really have in
mind is doubtless what every
Scotsman knows —that the kilt
differs from other garments, not
merely in its distinctive style,
but in being more than a gar-
ment. Some trousers, as it hap-
pens, are tax-free, but there is
nothing inherently outrageous
about a tax on trousers, which
even at their most elegant are
uninspiring and utilitarian. One
cannot really wear trousers with
an air, far less with a carefree
swing. If mountain winds blow
about them they respond hardly
at all. How different is the kilt,
the sartorial symbol of
freedom.”
Dragnet Digest
Fellow-travellers. —“There is,”
says “Manchester Guardian,”
referring to “Bevanism,” “no
clear frontier between those who
advocate cutting rearmament in
order to have more to spend on
social welfare and those who
would like Western strength re-
duced to suit Moscow’s book.”
Israel, of the West. —“lsrael,”
comments “U.S. News and
World Report,” “by an accident
of geography and by the careful
planning of Israeli leaders, is
likely to become the kingpin of
Western defences in the Near
East.”
Indefinite Korea. London
“Times” interpretation of the
Russian - Chinese agreement:
“The Russian retention of Port
Arthur and the secrecy about
most of the discussions combine
to suggest that the Communist
leaders do not count on any
relaxation of the tension in the
Far East or particularly in
Korea. There is nothing to
suggest any change in the Com-
munist strategy that is designed
to keep a large Western force
tied up in Korea while continu-
ing to instigate and maintain
revolts in other areas.”
Candid Corns. —“ Communists,
like the Nazis,” notes London
“Daily Telegraph,” “have a way
of combining tactical deceit with
strategic forthrightness. They
disclose with surprising candor
their long-term aims, though,
again as happened with the
Nazis, few of their potential
victims believe them when they
do so.”
Jap-British Conflict. —Forecast-
by a London “Spectator” writer:
“The ends which Japan is bound,
alike by the pressure of her virile
population and by her expan-
sionist tradition, to pursue, and
the means by which, on form,
she is likely to pursue them,
seem to me certain in the long
run to bring her into conflict
with British interest; and the
Japanese, who are not at all
good losers, are unlikely to over-
look any chances that may come
their way of paying off old
scores.”
Coal Cure. —Prescribed by
“New York Times”: “There is
nothing wrong with British
economy that 20 million more
tons of export coal could not
cure, yet British miners prefer
to keep production low rather
than accept the aid of Italian
miners. Similar instances of pro-
duction restrictions by both
labor and capital could be
pointed out in other countries
and in other fields.”
British Planes. —De Havilland
director F. E. N. St. Barhe,
giving reasons why Britain’s air-
craft industry has one of the
best products for export: “We
[British] hold the lead in air-
liner design for the first time in
twenty years —and it may be our
last opportunity in history of
entering this field; world air
transport is an expanding mar-
ket with an enormous future,
whereas so many other exports
must dwindle; and aircraft, like
Swiss watches, bring in a high
revenue per pound of material.”
Britain’s China Hopes. —“U.S.
News and World Report” speak-
ing “historically”: “Britain’s
Socialists hoped at the end of
1949 that the U.S. would join
them in recognising the Chinese
Communists. When the U.S.
drew back, the Socialists went
ahead alone. They reasoned that
prompt recognition would be
met with trade favors by the
Communists, and that it would
strengthen Hong Kong as a
profitable piece of British real
estate. Neither idea paid off.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Faith and Welfare
A people worshipping the idea of
security and attaining this blessed state
through legislation come to depend on
Governments. The Welfare State is
Heaven on earth to many, and the Great
Spirit has been banished to the uttermost
regions of space.
Men living dangerously, however, do
not trust solely their own strength and
wisdom, nor believe in the beneficent
wisdom of the State. Men taking risks
believe firmly in good or bad luck and
in Divine power. Consequently, men of
action, who know the knife-edged distinc-
tion between survival and extinction, are
at heart religious men.
The modern fetishes are security, com-
fort and safety dispensed by elected or
dictatorial leaders. The only dangers
facing men in cities are prosaic accidents.
Most of them die commonplace deaths
in bed.
When the even tenor or dullness of
city living is smashed by large and re-
current dangers ; when people must rely
on their agility and intelligence; then
conditions are ripe for reviving belief
in a higher power.
We may, in the atomic age, undergo
many misfortunes and constant dangers
and see a genuine religious belief reborn.
It cannot come while we are “in the
money,” and insulated from the wicked
world and fickle fortune by the dubious
protection of social security.—Kurt
Chagan (N.S.W.).
A Woman Speaks
There is a widespread belief that a
woman doctor, lawyer, etc., cannot be as
good as her male colleague. Even in
teaching, which is largely a women’s pro-
fession, the woman can go so far and no
farther. The plums are reserved for the
men.
As for pay, the discrimination is
marked. In nursing, regarded as a
women’s preserve, in this State until
recently a trained sister was paid less
than a male nurse.
Yet the woman usually pays the same
fares, board, entertainment fees and so
on, as a man. In thousands of miles of
travel in Australia I remember only one
form of transport that cost a woman less
—a ferry-service in Perth sold cheaper
seasonal tickets for women. Of all the
hotels I have stayed at, only one charged
less for women. All the others, besides
charging women the same as men,
actually served smaller meals to the
females!
In boarding, the landlady will often
darn and wash for the male boarder and
not for the female, though charging both
the same tariff. I stayed at a hotel which
expected female (but not male) guests to
clean the bath after use.
This unfair and rather contemptuous
campaign against women is by no means
confined to men. Ironically enough it
often begins with a woman—the mother
who reserves household drudgery for her
daughters and expects them to wait on
her sons. — Rose Etta (Tas.).
Teachers
I don’t see why an individual teacher
hasn’t as much right to air his views in
the Press, if he can, as anyone else (B.
22/10/’52). As for suggesting that a
teacher should be sacked because he
publicly criticised an executive body—if
ever that time comes we’ll have reached
the stage when public opinion is com-
pletely muzzled.
The N. S. Wales Federation desires
to have an education commission with
its members in the majority, and why
not? Haven’t we enough tragic illustra-
tions of Transport, Egg, Milk, Meat and
what-have-you boards and commissions
largely controlled by people with no
practical knowledge of what they have
to govern and direct?
Also, the £65-a-year increase in screw
is not excessive, particularly for the young
trainee-teacher.
My son chose teaching for a career.
After eight years of study at high school
and teachers’ training college, he is about
to be appointed a teacher at £l4-a-weck,
including the £65 increase. It’s a few
shillings more than an unskilled worker,
but I am under bond to pay £3OO if
my son fails to complete at least three
years’ service. He has to serve first three
years in the bush (far outback), deprived
of natural homelife and amenities. From
his weekly £l4 he must pay £6 to £7 10s.
a week for board, £1 10s. tax and £1 15s.
superannuation. If he wants to come
home at vacation-time he’ll have to pay
his fares both ways.
Putting weekly spending-money down
at £1 10s., he’ll be lucky if he has a
couple of pounds a week left over for
clothes and to save for an occasional
holiday. Yearly increases in salary to
reach his maximum of £9OO-odd are
spread over 13 years. To get beyond that
will be more accident than design, for
headmasterships in proportion to teachers
are not worth considering.
At close on 21 years of age my son
hasn’t earned a cracker yet. His scholar-
ship allowance didn’t pay for fares,
sports’ fees, college library tees, cost of
extra books and requisites. I keep, clothe
and provide him with pocket-money.
From 17 to 21 years I reckon that he
cost me easily £lOOO. If he had gone
into any other N. S. Wales Government
department during his cadet years he
would have been paid a salary for four
years of about £lOOO.
It is common knowledge that the
N.S.W. Education Department cannot fill
“Easy on the choke. Mother!"
its requirements for trainee-teachers. The
reason is obvious: Parents think twice
before they commit themselves to a bond
of £300; most cannot, or will not, main-
tain their children until manhood or
womanhood is reached ; and there aren’t
sufficient suitable types of young men and
women today who are willing to
bury themselves in the outback for three
years for little more than their keep and
travelling expenses.— Jaybee (N.S.W.).
Preserving History
The Letters of Rachel Henning
plainly suggests that some effort should
be made to form what might be termed
local “archivist committees” with a view
to collecting documents and papers which
might otherwise be destroyed. The exist-
ence of such committees would induce
people not to destroy records before these
committees had a chance to see if they
were worth keeping.
Years ago the Melbourne solicitors
who acted as agents for the principals
in England handling the famous Tich-
borne case sent a load of documents
relating to this case to the incinerator.
Back in 1938 it was reported that a
sack of old parchments was bought by
a second-hand bookseller in London for
6d. a pound. Upon examination it was
found to contain old documents of in-
estimable value, and while in this case
the bookseller was able to rescue them,
it is impossible to gauge the losses which
the world has sustained by the failure of
people to appreciate the possible value
of old documents and records. In 1936,
from the vaults of the Old Bailey
'(London) stacks of parchment indictments,
including records of famous criminal
trials in the 17th century, were carted
away and destroyed by order of the
court. When the news of this destruc-
tion became known there were loud and
bitter protests from historians and others.
Recently , a retired managing clerk to
a Melbourne solicitor told me he spent
the weekend burning a lot of papers and
documents which he had taken home
when his principal died. When he told
me some of the famous cases his em-
ployer had handled I told him that some
local historians would have paid him to
get possession of what he had committed
to the flames. He said he still had a
couple of old books on Australia and I
asked him for them. One was of no
value, but the other is a collector’s piece
and is very rare.
Something should be done to try to
rescue oid papers, letters and documents.
—H. W. M. (Vic.).
A lot could be done to preserve Aus-
tralian history by making use of university
students on vacation. A bit of historical
research would be more useful to many
students than the jobs they get during
vacation, and if the Government paid
them for the work, most of the organis-
ing and direction could be done by uni-
versity staff members.
Students come from everywhere, and
until some kind of history commission
with full-time research officers can be
established they could cover a lot of
ground in the way of interviews and col-
lecting useful information. —H. H. (Q.).
Closer Settlement
“D.V.F.” (B. 5/11/’52) seems to forget
that, among other things, Victoria is only
a small part of Australia.
The recent remarkable succession of
good seasons has lulled many people into
thinking that the southern portion of
the continent has unlimited agricultural
possibilities. Old hands, who remember
the droughts of yesteryear, know other-
wise, while settlers in the south-west
“marginal” areas of N. S. Wales, whose
properties were “reconstructed” some
years ago, know full well the heartbreak
of trying to make a living on an inade-
quate area.
The Commonwealth Rural Reconstruc-
tion Commission’s third report is worth
quoting. It says' —
“It may be that strong public pressure
will develop in favor of extensive sub-
division of large estates, merely because
they are large, and irrespective of their
contribution to the agricultural output
and the efficiency of their management.
In the opinion of the commission such
pressures should be resisted ; action of
this sort would be no more justifiable than
breaking a large manufacturing concern
Inn ™ ° f sma .independently-
tw c ° mmissl °” emphasises
, ’i 11 st mdustnes, modern farming
equately mechanised and using rota-
tions of crops where such are necessary
oi the maintenance of soil-fertility re-
quire farms of a size which need the
full-time employment of several men. If,
t erefore, estates are lo be subdivided
into mi ail unus efficient agriculture of
this general type ultimately becomes im-
possible. Reasonable returns to agn-
cultural workers are seldom associated
wffh one-man farms. Ultimately, sub-
division implies a refusal to permit aggre-
gation, which, in its turn, removes an
incentive to effort for higher efficiency.
The commission was outspoken in its
condemnation of the policy of giving
settlers insufficient land, and found that
distress through this cause still existed
in many areas. One of its findings, in
1944, is of particular interest today
“It is desirable to reiterate some of the
factors which were responsible for the
faults in initial policies so that they may
be guarded against in the future. One of
these is overemphasis of the idea of a
farm for each man which is partly based
on political considerations, and partly on
beliefs in some quarters that a ‘bold
peasantry’ is the most desirable structur
for the countryside.”
“D.V.F.” instances British agricultur
as an example of diversified settlement
as far as all but small portions of Aus
tralia are concerned, he might as we
have compared our conditions with con
ditions in Burma or Switzerland. Ther
is no comparison at all.
The distribution of land in souther
Australia was not determined artificially
but economically. True, early land-gram
and the deeds of the squatters gave man
an unreasonable advantage when the lane
rush really started, but in the century o
so since then droughts, depressions an
improvement in agricultural method
have reorganised the general pattern o
land-ownership.
This process is still going on in north
west N.S.W., where wheat is of its own
volition breaking up many large pro
perties which 20 years ago had never , seen
a plough.
In the' Riverina, on the other hand, the
process was finished long ago, and with
very few exceptions there is very little
land there that will bear further sub
division without seriously affecting the
balance of the area’s agriculture
economy.
Amidst the plethora of plans for the
land industry, perhaps the only sensible
voice heard recently has been that oi
Minister for Defence Mcßride, himself a
pastoralist, who urged farmers to wake
up to themselves and snap out of the
dangerous frame of mind which expects a
perpetual cost-plus rural economy, based
on inflated prices, and a glorious drought-
free future. His fellow-landmen, or at
least their “spokesmen,” didn’t seem to
like it, but most of them recognise the
truth of his statement. — Dick Turpin
(N.S.W.).
Double Demurrage
Double-demurrage dues imposed by
N.S.W. Railway Department add a heavy
financial penalty to increased freight-
charges. The department ignores the
40-hour-week law which prevents con-
signees from employing men at week-
ends and which provides that railwaymen
who work at weekends must be paid
“penalty” rates. It has an iron-clad regu-
lation which imposes double demurrage
on truck-loads of goods that reach a
siding on Saturday mornings and are not
unloaded that day. On other days ordi-
nary demurrage is good enough, but for
the work-free Saturday this charge is
doubled, making the consignee call on
unwilling workers at penalty-rates or pay
the iniquitous double demurrage.
The hardest-hit are the department’s
best clients —those who receive the
largest number of truck-loads and conse-
quently pay the most freight.
Trucks loaded for the one consignee
at the same point on different dates some-
times arrive at the destination on the
same day, owing to faulty train schedules,
and should this be a Saturday the depart-
ment reaps a demurrage harvest.
Added to the demurrage is a charge
for the tarpaulins covering the goods.
Tarpaulins are a necessary part of a
private carrier’s equipment to protect
goods from damage by weather or other
causes until the articles are delivered.
Their use is not charged for or considered
in freight assessments —it is part of the
service. But the railways charge for
tarpaulins, even though the delay is no
fault of the customer’s.— Ann (N.S.W.).
Coa! and N.S.W.
“Rann” (B. 15/10/’52) regrets that after
20 years’ persuasion the N.S.W. miners,
having reached an adequate output of
coal, are threatened with unemployment,
and thinks it may take 20 to 50 years to
bring them back to the high-production
stage again. No ope benefits if adverse
conditions affect any State, but the N.S.W.
coal deposits are the property of that
State, and the conditions under which
they have been exploited are the respon-
sibility of the N.S.W. people and the
Governments they elect.
Can N.S.W. reasonably expect any
sympathy from other States who have
suffered from the outrageous service
rendered by the coal industry of N.S.W.?
Development of low-grade deposits in
Vic., S.A. and W.A. has been mostly an
outcome of this inadequate service. Only
for that Wonthaggi, with its thin seams in
badly-faulted country, would not have
been opened. The mine was never an
economic proposition and the coal has
been won at enormous financial loss. In-
side a few years Vic. will be independent
of N.S.W. gas coal. Other States are well
on their way to independence of a State
that takes 20 years to get its workers to
do their job.
Doubtless Vic. and S.A. remember the
time when the chief Pooh-Bah of the


Missing Friend
FREDERICK WILLIAM FIELD, probably
known as WILLIAM CLIFFORD, formerly
of Timaru, New Zealand, last heard of
in Svdney in December, 1939, is requested
to communicate with the undersigned.
Will any person aware of his present
address supply same?— DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Timaru, New Zealand.
INSURANCE -—for your protection
UNION trance SOCIETY OF CANTON. LTD.
INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON,
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £13,000,000. Established
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney. ..
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines) C * R - CORNWELL, Manager.
1835.
m
d
*> **
■
■'
‘VXSSSSSjpSS*
VOOSt
Roads like these
need GoodyearTyres
Your car may be fast, res-
ponsive, eager to go . . . but
once you’re in the rough, it’s
the tyres that take the punish-
ment. There’s comfort in
Goodyear when you’re
making pace on the straight,
and the tougher rubber, the
stronger cord body, the burly
shoulders are friends in need.
So is the wider, flatter, road-
gripping Goodyear tread.
No wonder more people, the
world over, prefer to travel
on Goodyear Tyres.
K
9
GET THERE ON
GOODHEAR
©□“DjQDSXEI tyres
YOUR GOODYEAR DEALER NOW HAS STOCKS
.C 42
THIS HAPPENS...
This sign warns that the
smooth macadam ends in
loose, slippery gravel. Feel
how your Goodyear Tyres
meet this hazard with
resilient ease, because they
are designed to carry you
safely and well.
Miners’ Federation threatened
them with complete withdrawal
of coal-supplies unless he was
satisfied with verdicts on a dis-
pute at Wonthaggi and a High
Court case in S.A. There is no
doubt that he could have ful-
filled his threat, thereby show-
ing that he had more power
than the Prime Minister. We
owe an apology to N.S.W. for
this gentleman, he was a gift
from Victoria.
The miners might recapture
their old markets in the East
and elsewhere, as mentioned in
B. 22/10/’52, but they will
have to get their costs down, for
foreigners care not at all
whether our miners get short
hours, many holidays, sacred
“These days it's a long time between trams.”
right to strike, or practise their
dargs. Who is going to convey
to the miners some realisation
of their economic obligations
and the consequences of their
actions? Certainly not the poli-
ticians, nor the cock-a-doodle
leaders of the unions who must
crow their defiance at the cruel
bosses (Government and private)
just to show their silly flock that
they are doing something to-
wards getting them more money
and the right to produce less
under more comfortable condi-
tions. How would they hold
their leadership otherwise? Nor
do the miners weep for them-
selves unaccompanied: They
have Arbitration Acts to s'ettle
disputes between two parties,
and the third party, the con-
sumer who pays the lot, is not
represented.—L. M. D. (Vic.).
Unfinished Jobs
Unfinished jobs seem to be
developing as a national trait,
especially in N.S.W. It’s obvious
that any project must pass
through the phase of being an
unfinished job; the essential
difference is that in a rational
order of things there is a begin-
ning and a completion.
Beginnings occur around Syd-
ney with an easy, day-happy
delight. Some period of doing
usually follows, though not
always ; some progress is made.
And then there is a sudden,
almost psychotic pause, usually
at a point where the project has
reached its maximum in unlovely
ungainliness and general incon-
venience and its minimum in
value.
For something like seven years
there has. been a project on hand
to add another double set of
lines to the western railway be-
tween Lidcombe and Granville,
as part of a wider plan to en-
large the railway-system as far
west as Wallerawang. The Lid-
combe-Granville quadruplicate
would solve many difficulties in
suburban time-tabling and travel-
ling ; the fruit of the seven years
is a series of uncompleted railway
platforms in all their useless un-
tidiness. Not one extra train has
yet run over this vital addition
to a hard-pressed suburban sys-
tem!
Other uncompleteds on the
railways list would make a
night’s reading.
Years ago a large monkey-pit
was built in the heart of the Zoo,
having in its centre a large syn-
thetic-rock mass around which
hordes of monkeys were sup-
posed to frolic. But either the
monkeys didn’t like the rock,
the rock didn’t like the monkeys,
or the customers didn’t like the
whole set-up; anyway the
monkeys disappeared, and the
rock slowly crumbled into a
horrible heap of dirty, weed-
blown rubble. That was years
ago ; just recently I saw it again,
still a wreck. Scores of “new”
things have been done at
Taronga; it does not seem to
have occurred to anybody in
authority that half the charm of
the place has been destroyed by
its desolate appearance.
Rationally, a project is put in
hand with an intention of
service. Planning and beginning
are the essential but preliminary
stages. The breaking-off some
way along the line has all the
marks of the child-mind, which
begins with no thought of end-
ing. These official daydreams
expressed in steel, bricks and
labor-costs are dragging end-
lessly at the public purse ; their
virtual abandonment while the
official daydream switches itself
to a new idea represents utter
loss.
There is talk about appoint-
ing a medical-officer to attend
the proposed night-sittings of
police courts so that drunken
car-drivers may, perhaps, be
proved not to be drunk. N.S.W.
should appoint a psychiatrist to
every public or semi-public
authority controlling develop-
mental projects.— Dee (N.S.W.).
Mariners’ Meals
Perhaps “Macnell” can en-
lighten me? Half a life in the
merchant service, followed by
one war in the R.A.N., leaves
me confused about victualling as
the Navy does it.
In merchant ships of every
nation, even to the largest afloat,
three meals daily are put on the
table as part of one’s pay, to be
eaten or left. In the R.A.N.,
however, there is some form of
costing system, and periodically
in some warships I was pre-
sented with a bill for as much as
2s. daily and told it was my share
of the feeding-costs, whilst in
others I was given a small cheque
on being appointed to another
ship and told it was my profit.
I’ve served under three flags —
Jap, Danish and British —and
can’t see why the Navy cannot
do as every other ship does.
Incidentally, in passenger-
ships the food was much better
than in the R.A.N., and in cargo-
ships during the last few years
it was quite as good. Also, in
every merchant-ship the bed-
linen and towels were supplied
and laundered by the ship. In
the R.A.N. we supplied our own
sheets and towels and made our
own arrangements for laundry.
It is time Nelson faded out of
the picture.—E. J. P. (Q.).
New Threat to Peace
Heaven help the Chinese, the
Koreans, the Americans, the
armies and the prisoners if Lord
Lindsay of Birker has his way
and replaces the Army negotia-
tors in the Korean peace talks
with a team of philosophers and
psychiatrists. True philosophers
have never yet bothered to take
degrees in philosophy, and the
psychiatrists would only fight
amongst themselves.
Has there ever yet been a
court case in which a psychiat-
rist was employed by one side
that the other side has not pro-
duced another psychiatrist whose
evidence opposed that of his
colleague?
In general, scientific men are
the worst hands at conducting
negotiations. They annoy the
subject by asking questions
which are too many, too
detailed and too frequently
repeated, with slight gradations
in meaning as a check on pre-
vious information. This has been
well exemplified in New Guinea,
where patrol-officers have ad-
vanced general knowledge and
understanding of the native to
a degree far ahead of the work
of trained anthropologists.
Malinowski {Sexual Life of
Savages) even claimed, of the
Trobrianders, who are notable
pig-breeders, that they had no
conception of the value of inter-
course in the propagation of
species. He himself had no con-
ception of the resentment, ob-
viously aroused by his personal
questions, behind this misinfor-
mation.
Lord Lindsay is senior research
fellow on international relations
at the Australian National Uni-
versity at Canberra. Possibly,
however, he is a humorist as
well. The kindest thing to think
is that his irony was undetected
by newspaper reporters. —
Psycho (N.S.W.).


I.
Sr
m
Just a Few
Cows
to Milk?
Then YOU Need the
“DANGAR - GEM”
'////
OEM
The "Dangar-Gem" is the "great"
little milker specially designed for
that small herd. It is simple to op-
erate, completely self-contained,
and available with either 1 h.p.
J.A.P. engine or 1/3rd. h.p. elec-
tric motor.
No special installations or shed
conditions are required, and the
"Dangar-Gem" can be thoroughly
washed and cleaned in about five
minutes. By the addition of
doubling-up attachments, the little
"Dangar-Gem" can milk two cows
at once without any loss of power!
Sole Distributors:
Dangar. Gedye & Malloch Ltd.
Malioch House, 10-14 Young St., Sydney
Branches: Melbourne, Wagga, Hay, Newcastle
and Lismore.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Dairy Culls
“Mr.”: Cows are culled be-
cause of disease, accident, old
age or low production. Culling
because of old age, however, can
be overdone. Some cows pro-
duce profitably into their Bth to
10th years. The fodder eaten
between birth and milk-produc-
tion is an overhead charge which
has to be paid off before the cow
becomes profitable. It is obvi-
ous that milk from long-lived
cows is more profitable than
milk from young cows.
C. J. Bradbury, a Vic. dairy
expert, points out that in 1952
almost 60 per cent, of cows in
Victorian herds were under five
years of age, compared with 40
per cent, in the 1930’5. He con-
siders that culling needs close
examination. The cost of rear-
ing stock is high. Replacement
heifers compete with milking-
cows for food, therefore a reduc-
tion in their number would
enable more milkers to be
carried.
At present in Victoria many
heifers reared to replace cows
culled for low production pro-
duce no more milk than the
cows they replace, and many of
them are themselves culled after
one or two seasons.
Bradbury believes that, unless
replacement stock are bred from
above-average cows and a
proved, carefully-selected bull,
the culling of low-producers is
unlikely to achieve an increase
in herd-production. More care
is needed in selecting herd bulls.
Culling could then be confined
to unsound animals until such
time as the breeder can see,
through herd-test performance,
that the sire is raising the pro-
duction of the herd.
Better Than Merino
“Outback”: During a four
months’ visit to the U.S.A., G.
R. Moule, Queensland sheep ex-
pert, found Rambouillet sheep
superior to Merinos in confor-
mation, reproductive-rate and
weight-gain, while the wool was
as good as anything in Queens-
land.
This was largely the result of
experiments conducted by Dr.
Phil Neal, of New Mexico State
College. Moule is the first Aus-
tralian agriculturist to go to
America under a special Ameri-
can leadership grant. Another
thing which impressed Moule
was the tremendous produc-
tivity in America, the output per
man in the agricultural indus-
tries being phenomenal.
High mechanisation called for
high capitalisation, and Moule
formed the impression that the
American farmer was not in a
very favorable position to with-
stand a period of unfavorable
prices and/or seasons. Farmers
were getting 300 dollars (£AI33)
per acre per annum from dairy-
ing land ; sheepmen were getting
57 dollars (£A2S) per ewe and
some ewe flocks were weaning
140 per cent, of lambs weighing
1001 b. liveweight at four to five
months. Maize land was yield-
ing 380 dollars (£AI69) per acre
where the grain was fed to live-
stock.
Moule pointed out, however,
that where Australia had desert
the U.S.A. had the Mississippi
and Missouri Rivers, the basins
of which were fully utilised for
agriculture and livestock-produc-
tion. Americans also were
making full use of the water
from snow country for irrigation
purposes.
Mechanisation had liberated
70 million acres of arable land
previously used for horse-feed,
and now growing human food.
0^
“Remember when y' used I ’ go t' town in the old
spring-carl ?”
As an Australian, Moule was
especially proud to observe the
high esteem in which the
C.5.1.R.0. is held in the U.S.A.
Duck-fattening
“Myrrhee”; Feed ducklings a
good chick mixture in the form
of a wet mash four times daily
for the first two or three weeks,
then three times a day until the
birds are four or five weeks old,
when they could go on to a
ration used for mature ducks.
One good mixture is wheat-
pollard 401 b., bran 301 b., ground
oats 201 b. and meat-meal 101 b.
Another is ground wheat 301 b.,
wheat-pollard 301 b., ground oats
301 b. and meat-meal 101 b. Mix
into both not less than 25 per
cent, of chaffed, succulent green
food.
Skim-milk or boiled fresh
meat (bullocks’ and sheep’s
heads, livers, etc.) could replace
the meat-meal. Pekins and
Aylesburys are usually marketed
from nine to 12 weeks old, when
they should weigh 4jlh. to 61b.
Muscovies are best kept till
14 to 16 weeks old.
Hatching Eggs
“ Rooster ” : Temperatures
drop when cold eggs are placed
in the incubator. The time
taken to regain normal tempera-
ture depends on the number of
eggs placed in the machine and
the temperature when the plac-
ing takes place. During the
coldest months these falls can
be very pronounced. To over-
come this loss of heat a modern
practice is to preheat the eggs
before placing them in the incu-
bators.
The practice is of greatest
value when eggs are placed with
other eggs close on hatching,
and the value is increased when
eggs are introduced in the incu-
bator more than once a week.
Preheating can be done in a
separate machine of smaller
capacity for about 12 hours or
until the eggs are heated to the
required temperature. Preheat
in the early evening and trans-
fer to the larger machines the
following morning.
Borax
“Bofer”: Lack of small quan-
tities of boron in the soil pro-
duces deficiency - diseases in
many fruits and crops. One
spectacular specimen is corki-
ness of apples, seen on poor
soils in the Kentucky district
of N.S.W. before applications of
borax stopped it.
Boron, however, in relatively
large quantities is a plant poison,
though it thus makes a good
weedicide. Mixed with sodium
chlorate for this purpose, it is
more effective and more eco-
nomical than chlorate alone.
Furthermore, it is fire-resistant,
eliminating this risk of the
chlorate.
Applied to beetroot at the
rate of about 401 b. per acre,
borax serves the dual purpose
of fertiliser and weedicide, in-
creasing the yield of the vege-
table and destroying weed-
growth without injuring the
crop.
Local Talent
“D. Boy”: The practice of
breed societies continually invit-
ing overseas stock-breeders to
judge beef cattle at Australian
shows was criticised by the
Federal president of the Aber-
deen-Angus Society (L. J.
Graves). Graves says young
Australian cattle - breeders
should be encouraged to judge.
If main show-judging appoint-
ments went to men in other
countries it would < ( not be pos-
sible to train young Australians
for these important posts.
Graves said he knew at least
six young stock-breeders who
would make excellent show
judges if given the chance.
Granulated Super.
“Pellet”: Australian farmers
are not catered for as are
farmers in other countries, where
different forms of both nitrogen
and phosphate fertilisers are
made available for various soil
conditions.
Many soils in Australia, par-
ticularly those derived from
basic igneous rocks such as
basalt, have a high content of
iron and alumina, which have a
hungry affinity for phosphates.
An application of ordinary
super is immediately seized by
the iron and alumina, at once
locked in insoluble form and
almost irreparably lost to
plants. Under these conditions
only about one-sixth of the
phosphate applied is utilised,
and increasing quantities are
required to get results.
In the granulated form, which
is used in other countries under
similar conditions, the pellets
of super, are quickly sur-
rounded by a mass of plant
roots, and the phosphate is thus
utilised by the crop or pasture
before the insatiable iron and
alumina can grab it.
Zinc Oxide
“H.J.S.”: In B. 5/11/’52
“Myrrhee” states that zinc sul-
phate should be used for spray-
ing citrus-trees. Zinc sulphate
will scorch and burn the foliage
of any tree. Zinc oxide is the
material for spraying trees in
foliage.
Zinc deficiency is very pre-
valent in Australian soils
generally, and particularly
grape-growing districts here in
South Australia. This de-
ficiency is easily observable
because the foliage does not
develop properly and the leaves
remain stunted and small.
Hence the disease known as
“little leaf.”
In this case zinc sulphate is
used and applied immediately
after pruning. The sulphate is
mixed to a paste and smeared
over the fresh cut immediately
after pruning and before the
cut dries out.
Blossom-end Rot
“Liko Perce” ; No variety of
tomato is very resistant to
blossom-end rot, but the Ameri-
can tomato, Rutgers, takes it to
a much lesser extent than most
others.
Although tomatoes grow well
in acid soils, an adequate supply
of lime in the soil to maintain
a nearly neutral reaction and
good soil aeration by cultivation
help to keep an even supply of
soil moisture throughout the
fruiting period. This consider-
ably helps to keep down blos-
som-end rot.
Dogs in the Tropics
“W. Court”; Heart-worm kills
more dogs than all other ail-
ments in tropical districts. The
first sign is a dry, hacking
cough that troubles the dog after
the least exertion. Gradually
the dog loses condition and
shows no inclination to move
about, though it retains its
appetite.
In the final stages the
stomach becomes swollen, and
this swelling, of dropsical nature,
rapidly increases. Simultane-
ously head, neck and limbs of
the dog become very emaciated.
Ordinary remedies, sulpha
drugs, etc., are worthless, though
a preparation called Fouadin is
often effective in the early
stages. This has to be given by
a vet.
The disease occurs when the
ordinary worms that infest the
dog find their way to the heart,
causing blockages. All dogs
should be treated with worm
medicine at regular intervals.
Hay Protection
“Myrr”: Vic. “Journal of
Agriculture” outlines a method
used by R. T. Hempel, a Wan-
garatta (Vic.) farmer, for cover-
ing his grass-hay stacks which
gives protection almost equal to
a shed.
The stack is covered with
loose straw tied on with baling-
wire and covered with 6in. of
pipe-clay hoisted up with the
stack-grab. The clay is watered,
smoothed with -a shovel and,
after a second watering, dusted
with cement and given a final
smoothing with the shovel.
To prevent the clay cracking
and breaking off the stack
Hempel reinforces it with old
baling-wire, the joins helping to
hold the clay in position.
Hempel, who has been farming
in Victoria’s north-east for
about 40 years, first tried the
method in 1941 and has been
using it ever since. ,
Krilium
“H. Hornet”: The Monsanto
Chemical Company is construct-
ing a huge factory in Texas
(U.S.A.) to manufacture acry-
lonitrile (the base, or “starting-
substance,” of many plastics), of
which krilium is a derivative. It
is not expected that krilium will
be on the market in substantial
quantities before 1953, but suffi-
cient quantities have been pro-
duced for research work. Be-
havior of krilium on soil condi-
tions has been tested at the
Universities of Ohio (U.S.A.)
and McGill (Canada), and by
various Departments of Agricul-
ture. i
Krilium is described in tech-
nical language as “a polyelectro-
lyte” which carries scores of
negative electrical charges which
seem to react with the positive


YOUR BATTERY
Can Last Forever
With regular use of “CELL-PEP”
(TWICE Yearly)
MB. A. C. HUEPIELD, Longfleld
Street, Stawell West (Victoria),
writes: “My batteries were played
out and would not take a charge.
On adding ‘CELL-PEP’ these bat-
teries are now fully charged and
holding the charge as new.”
Your Battery Lasts Longer and
Gives More Power with
“CELL-PEP” BATTERY
REJUVENATOR
“CELL-PEP” removes sulphate from
the plates and prevents further sul-
phating. Freed of sulphate the lead
in the plates reacts with the sul-
phuric acid in the battery and the
flow of electricity is restored to
normal.
THE BATTEBY WILL HOED A
CHABGE IONGEE
IN TEN MINUTES you can prove
that “CELL-PEP” saves you big
money. Hundreds of testimonials
received from satisfied users.
Large size treats 12 batteries for a
year for 25/9
Lighting Plant size 37/6
FREIGHT FREE
MAINTENANCE INDUSTRIES
(Australia)
Box 844, G.P.0., Sydney.
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut in
2oz. packets at 28/6d. per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31 /6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under 11b.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY . HOTEL.
GUESTHOUSE.
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
♦
fds
NO EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.PTY.LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
■DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & 00. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales and Services.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers,
R3,ffl6S PlfiC6«
NEW ZEALAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
before dinner.
t A
r
fits
V
?o
cots
Famous
since
1816
i aaunidnu
The modern RIGIFLEX BELT, relieving pressure on the
hernia region by supporting the internal organs, lifting them
away from the hernia, prevents the spreading of the rupture.
A feeling of fitness and complete freedom entirely replaces
the rigid local pressure exercised by trusses.
f
Write today
for Free
illustrated
booklet to
the address
below.
Sold in Australia ONLY by
Rigiflex Dept., J. ROUSSEL of Paris PTY. LTD.,
84 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l. Tel.; FA 8357
Open Saturday mornings
Branches throughout the British Isles and the Continent.
charges in the soil’s minerals to
dve the soil its proper struc-
ture It is claimed that krilium
will in a matter of hours, re-
juvenate and sustain soil barren
for years, or even generations.
The following points are
taken from the Monsanto Co.’s
own statements:
1. The new conditioner is a
synthetic substitute for the
natural humus components
which normally are plentiful in
virgin, fertile soils. 2. In tests
krilium has improved water-
infiltration and -percolation as
much as 300 per cent. 3. Im-
proved aeration also encourages
desirable soil microflora and
may be instrumental in reduc-
ing fungal and other soil-borne
diseases, such as damping-off
and root-rot. 4. Krilium-treated
soil shows an increased ability to
hold water against evaporation.
5. Increased soil-workability is
one of the most important re-
sults of the use of krilium.
There is hope that the mass-
production and wise use of this
soil-conditioner (it is not a fer-
tiliser) may heavily increase
agricultural production. The
estimated cost, in the beginning,
is put at about two dollars a
pound, though quantities per
acre aren’t stated.
Old, But Good
“C. Punch”: An Aberdeen-
Angus cow, Bald Blair Eclipse
4th, recently gave birth at the
age of 16 to a heifer calf. She
is owned by V. and R. Mc-
Donald, of Carramar stud,
Cayendish (Vic.). In June, 1950,
M. C. Gray, of Yarrawalla
(Vic.), bought from V. and R.
McDonald the N.Z. imported
cow Iviza of Gwavas, which, at
the date of the transfer, was
rising 17. She had a calf at foot
and was in calf again. Another,
Waratah Cherrie, also owned by
V. and R. McDonald, had a
calf at 16.
Best recorded performance of
an Aberdeen-Angus cow s
longevity is that of the U.S.-bred
Elm Branch Blackbird 2nd,
which, in 1946, at the age of
26, had her 24th calf and won
a U.S. oldest-cow contest.
Seventy-five Years
“R. Ney”: The Yarrawin
Merino stud, Brewarrina
(N.S.W.), is celebrating 75 years
of continuous family ownership.
William and Thomas Dickson,
sons of a Scot fra’ Dumfriesshire,
were born at Yarra Glen (Vic.)
and went with their father when
he bought 80,000 acres of
Baratta, in the Riverina. Later
Will and Tom bought Nyang, in
the same district, but got out of
it in 1874, when they went north
and bought Yarrawin.
They travelled their first studs
up from Victoria, but the sheep
did no good, so the brothers
bought Peppin rams and ewes
from Austin and Millear’s
Wanganella, . introduced some
Rambouillets in the ’eighties,
and with more Peppin infusions
built the flock. The founding
partnership was broken by death
in 1927, and the stud is now
run by J. and J. Dickson, who’ve
put out a nice brochure for the
75th anniversary.
Egg-eating
“Old G.” : The first sign of
egg-eating is a fall in normal
egg-production. Inspection will
sometimes show a damp nest if
nothing else. Although a short-
age of limestone-grit is often
blamed, this is not always the
cause.
Overcrowding of the pens,
even for a short period, may
start the egg-eating habit, which,
once established, is almost im-
possible to break. Good nesting
material is absolutely necessary
to prevent cracked eggs and
consequent picking at them. If
egg-eating has started, a deter-
rent —although not an absolute
cure —is to darken the nests.
Nail clean sacking in front of
each nest and slit in the middle a
piece large enough to admit the
bird,
Mendel’s Laws
“Relwof”: The factor for the
polled condition in cattle is
dominant over the homed fac-
tor. If pure polled cattle are
mated the offspring will nearly
all be polled, and they, in turn,
will breed polled animals.
However, this law doesn’t
always hold good. When
Aberdeen-Angus cattle are mated
with Shorthorns the resultant
crossbreds, however mated, will
throw 50 per cent, heterozygotes
(not true to the polled factor),
25 per cent, homozygotes (true)
and 25 per cent, will be truly
horned. Polled heterozygotes
bred with polled cattle will pro-
duce 50 per cent, polled and 50
per cent, horned.
Since it is very prepotent in
respect of hornlessness and
beef-production, the Aberdeen-
Angus crosses well with Short-
horn or Hereford.
Regarding colors, black is
dominant over red, and the red
may be handed on for genera-
tions out of sight. The first
generation from an Aberdeen-
Angus-Hereford cross would all
be black. The second genera-
tion would produce 50 per cent,
black (with red submerged), 25
per cent, pure black and 25 per
cent, pure red. The occasional
appearance of a red Aberdeen-
Angus calf is due to the fact
that the two breeding-strains
descended from ancestral
heterozygons carrying the red
factor in a recessive form. In
such a case it would be neces-
sary to remove both sire and
dam from the herd at once.
Improvement in breed can be
made by a study of the progeny
produced in any mating. As a
direct result of the application
of the Mendelian Laws in beef
breeds it has been shown that
the Hereford and Aberdeen-
Angus, or crosses of these two
breeds, are good battlers and
suitable for general purposes.
. Hints for the Farm
“Springvale”: Hot and humid
conditions induce mildew in
vine - vegetables. Overhead-
sprinkling will assist the spread
of the disease; irrigate through
furrows. Mildew at its first
appearance can be checked by
dusting with sulphur. Half-
strength Bordeaux mixture
(2-2-40) can be used on cucurbits
other than rock-melons or
cucumbers, both of which are
susceptible to Bordeaux injury.
“Marl”: For pollination of
clover and fruit-trees bees are
invaluable. Tests have shown
an increase in production of
clover-seed from one-half bushel
per acre with pollination by
stray bees to eight bushels with
bees kept on the property.
Annual clovers such as subter-
ranean need good pollination
for strong re-establishment in
the following year. One hive
per acre is considered to be suffi-
cient for pollination of a good
clover-stand.
“Sarina”: The long, narrow-
headed hoe is unbeatable for
cultivating growing vegetables.
It’s important that the surface
soil be kept loose against the
growing plants to encourage root-
formation. Fertiliser acts more
quickly if hoed in. Hoe soon
after every good rain to keep
the soil from packing.
“Plane Creek”: Mulberry-
trees are easily propagated by
cuttings. Downing’s Ever-bear-
ing is an ideal variety for
orchard - growing. Trees need
pruning at times, or they go out
of bearing. Strike strong shoots
in spring in cut-down kero.-tins,
using sand and loam in the tins.
Protect young trees from pests.
“Capper”: A modern method
for covering the top of silage to
prevent the waste which occurs
in the top foot or so exposed to
the air is a circular sheet of
plastic material used as a pro-
tecting cap. This seals off the
silage from the air and keeps
the top layer in good condition.
“W.C.Q.”: Good water is very
necessary to milking-cows, par-
ticularly when they’re on dry
pastures. Dry, coarse grass is
a burden on the cow’s digestive
system. Frequently it cannot be
digested, and impaction results.
Cows will drink only sufficient
dirty water to slake their thirst,
not enough for their well-being.
“H.G.H.”: The usual small
lawnmower, fitted with a wooden
roller behind the blades, can be
improved by replacing the roller
with a heavier type of rubber-
lined roller taken from an old
clothes-wringer. To a certain
extent the heavier type will pre-
vent the machine from bucking
when cutting.
• ‘/‘Sarina” : Too close planting
of vegetables hinders growth,
encourages diseases and causes
premature seeding. Spacing
must depend on variety.
also on soil and locality.
Usually, however, cabbages of
the Drumhead type require from
2ft. to 2ft. 6in. of space ; small
ones of the Sugarloaf type from
15in. to 2ft. Lettuce range from
6in. to 12in., kohl-rabi and
turnips 9in. to 12in., onions 6in.
Allow slightly more space
between rows.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
My forecasting system is now approaching a time when
it can be tested on the old principle of the pudding and
the eating thereof. The cycle is still acting as though under
the control of the single Bruckner cycle, and according
to this the intermediate districts should only have small
rain for a while. The recent cold spell duly followed this
sequence. Rains are still likely along the southern littoral
and adjoining belt and also in the far north.
As November ends good general rains are likely, with
flooding in some recently dry areas.


minute for the big fight. It’s
easily the biggest crowd since
the Williams-Skinner encounter.
They’re standing up in the
bleachers. The boys are here in
their corners. I see they’re
massaging Michael’s legs. Well,
here’s hoping there’s nothing
wrong there. Y’know, an ex-
champ. was telling me that’s the
first place he went. Yes, the legs.
You’d think it’d be their eyes
or somewhere that wouldn’t be
as quick any more. But no, he
says ‘When y’ feel your legs
aren’t movin’ as well as they did,
give it away.’ Anyway, I’d say
there shouldn’t be any fear of
that yet with Michael.”
The Ringside Voice flows on;
“The ref. has got into the ring
and is beckoning the boys over
to the centre for their instruc-
tions. They both look in the
pink — well, they’re not what
you’d call pink, but they’re both
fit. I’ve seen Dowden in his
workouts at the gym. No need
to tell you about the other man.
He’s the middleweight champion
of A ustralia. I’ve seen him, too,
in the gym. this week, and you
can take it from me he’s fit to
put up the fight of his life. We
haven’t had anyone more worthy
to be holding the crown since
Darcy.... ”
The typewriter, almost tabled
on round green dressing-gowned
belly, clittering away as easily
as the Ringside Voice itself; in
an almost exact unison with it;
same flow, different words;
“. . .. uncouthness and grotesque-
ness of specious plausibilities
Brown slacks uninterested.
Reading.
The Ringside Voice putting
stadium, crowd, the two fighters
and the ring into the room.
Romney’s flatette no longer. For
the moment it is taken over by
the Great Voice, through proxy
Ringside Voice. The paste faces
of the crowd blurred in smoke
wall the white canvas ring on
all sides. The nuggety negro
Dowden’s black vellum skin
shining in the down-thrown
light. Michael bath-clean white.
The Ringside Voice brings
them together: “Sparring
around. Just feeling each other
out. Oh, a left to the head by
Michael. ...”
The typewriter stops clittering
while the round is fought. It
starts again instantly the Ring-
side Voice says: “The boys are
going back to their corners.
Nothing much so far. Just try-
ing each other out. It’d be
Michael’s round.”
Hailstones Kwicklin is the
best....
The Ringside Voice again:
“By the way, I notice one in the
crowd here whose name you’ll all
know. Young Strinbeer. He’s
now talking to the Premier and
the Superintendent of Police at
the side of the ring. If I can
catch his eye I’ll see if I can
get him to come over later and
have a word with you. Maybe
he can tell us something about
Dowden and the others they’re
bringing out. There goes the bell.
They’re still wary. A left to
the head by Michael. Another
left to ihe head by Michael. Not
much sting in them. ...”
Global dressing-gown listening
at the typewriter. Brown slacks
turning over the magazine
pages ; thinking about the one
the Ringside Voice might bring
in. She has seen him ; on the
beach at Bondi. Six feet, brown
as a lifesaver ; a wonderful male
animal; they say he’s going to
lecture at the University . . .
Still, Romney is here, now.
ROMNEY, she notes with in-
terest, is really listening to
the fight. Three minutes listen-
ing, one minute typing. Another
half-dozen rounds; every round
—lt seems easily—Michael’s. She
turns the volume-control slightly
up as the Ringside Voice catches
Young Strinbeer’s eye as prom-
ised (in point of fact, as
arranged that morning at the
studio recording-interview for
the Saturday-night Pageant of
Sport session)
“I’d like you to say hello, if
you wouldn’t mind. Jack. ...”
The Strinbeer Voice is clear
American: “Goodnight, folks.
Good to be here. Waal, this
Michael fellow of yours is a nice
fighter, Clive...”
“His wife —you know they
were only married a fortnight
ago—this is on the honeymoon
“Sorter honeymoon in eclipse
“Hu hul Anyway , Jack, she’ll
be listening, and you know what
wives are, so we’ll have to he
careful what we say, won’t we ?
Look, I’ve been calling you
Jack „ You don’t mind....”
“No, Clive, not a bit. That’s
how I’m called back home. The
‘Young’s’ something they’ve
wished onto me ...”
“Gentleman Jack?”
“Waal, y’ know how it is. If
you come out of Yale or Har-
vard or Columbia — I’m from
Yale. There’s the be 11 ....”
“Michael has come out fight-
ing. He’s going to mix it. A
left to the head, a right to the
body by Michael. Right upper-
cut to the jaw by Michael. That
jolted Dowden. You can hear
the crowd. ...”
The typewriter listens. Rom-
ney turns on the chaff, leans an
ear to the Voice. Brown slacks
couldn’t listen less.
The Ringside Voice: “The
best round so far. They’re hard
at work on Dowden... .Tell us,
Jack, you were saying you’re a
Yale tjian. What’s this they say
about you being here to lecture
at the University ?”
Typewriter clittering. She
couldn’t listen more.
“Ah waal, Clive, they say a
lot of things. You know how it
is. As a matter of .fact I’ll be
going there, I hope. I’m here
on a scholarship....”
“But you’ll be fighting, too?”
“Oh yes, Clive, I hope so.
Y’know, I’m like the man in the
poem who runs because he likes
it. I just fight because I like
it...”
“As long as you know when
to knock off, eh, Jack ?”
“You’ve got something there,
too, Clive. There’s — waal, we
needn’t mention any names, but
there’s a world champion you
know as .well as I do. Waal,
I’d say today he just hasn’t got
a mind any more, if you see
what I mean. Inside his head
there’s nothing but a boxing-
ring, and when you’re talking to
him that’s where he is—inside
there in the ring in his mind,
swapping punches like these
two”
“There’s the bell for round
eight. Dowden’s slow coming
from his corner. Michael means
to mix it. He jolts a left to the
head, a hard right to the body.
He has Dowden on the ropes.
A left to the body by Michael.
Another left to the body by
Michael. There’s weight in those
punches....”
Typing stopped. Green dress-
ing-gown risen like a tethered
balloon. Listening till the round
ends. Typing again.
“Another round to Michael.
Tell us, Jack, how does Dowden
rate over there?”
“Waal, you know, Clive,
they’ve got some pretty good
boys over there. I’d say he rates
pretty well. You might See him
in the gym., y’ know, and he
don’t show much, but what he’s
got is toughness. And he can
punch. After all, he’s a Golden
Gloves winner, y’ know. But
this boy of yours certainly does
seem to be teaching him some-
thing....”
The bell. The other bell, the
tiny tinkle of the typewriter, is
stopped by the sound.
“Dowden has stepped in close
to Michael. A short left to the
head by Michael. Another left
to the head by Michael. A hard
right jolt by Michael. Dowden’s
knees buckled. No, he’s fighting
back. A left by Michael. A
hard right cross by Dowden. A
left rip to the body by Dow-
den. He’s hurting the champ.
Michael’s in trouble. A hard
right to the head by Dowden.
And Michael is d0wn. ...”
GLOBAL dressing-gown bal-
loons half across the room
to the radio.
“Michael’s now on his feet
again. He’s all right. Yes,
Michael’s quite all right. And
there’s the be 11 ....”
The Ringside Voice is almost
swamped out by the Crowd,
Voice. A confused sound rising
to a roar; hard, broken laughs
and calls breaking out of it.
The Ringside Voice, above
the uproar: “I suppose, Jack,
that noise’s familiar enough to
you ?” , •
The American Voice: “Yeah,
I’ve heard it.”
The Ringside Voice, cutting
down on a laugh: “That looks
a bad cut on Michael’s eye.
They’re working hard, on it in
his corner. He’s the crowd’s idol,
here, you know, Jack. They’re
here to see him win....”
The American Voice: “Waal,
Clive, I don’t know about that.
Y’ know,,my idea is the crowd
never comes to see a man win.
It comes to see a man lose, if
you see what I mean
“They haven’t come to see
Michael win, they’ve come to see
Dowden lose?”
“Waal yes, up to a point. But
that’s not altogether as I see it,
either. If there’s. a champion
they’ll come and come and come
to see him, and you might think
they come to see him win. They
might think so, too. up to a
point. But as I see it what they
really come for is to see him get
beat. They want to see the
champion knocked d0wn....”
The typewriter clitters through
all this. Brown jacket listens.
The wonderful male animal
sounds interesting. At the bell
she is watching Romney. The
clittering stops.
“Michael is wary. He’s keep-
ing Dowden guessing. Oh, a left
to the head by Dowden. He’s
opened the cut on Michael’s eye.
The blood’s streaming down.
The crowd’s on its feet. ...”
So is Romney on his. Green
dressing-gown ballooning right
over to beside the radio. Bend-
ing to miss nothing.
Smiling a thought, she watches
him. The pudgy hands clenched.
Fat feet tapping. Fat hands
jerking fat little punches. ,
“Oh, a smashing right to the
head by Dowden. He’s playing
on that eye. Michael, is nearly,
blind. Another right to the head
by Dowden. He has Michael
groggy. A right to the heart by
Dowden. And a smashing right
to the head by Dowden. The
crowd is howling. Michael is
down. Yes, he’s down on his
knees. He’s pitched forward on
his face. The ref.’s counting.
You can say it’s all over. I can
see Michael’s face. It’s a mass
of blood. The referee is holding
up Dowden’s hand. The
crowd, .-..”
Ringside Voice lets the crowd
take over. It howls pande-
monium. It shrieks and yells in
the room. She watches the round
mouth’s twitchings. Touches his
clenched fat fist, A chink in the
armor,
“Sorry you missed seeing it,
darl”
“So am I.”
HE goes back. The type-
writer clitters: “ defin-
ing in colors, as of red blood
spreading through the brown
hair. ...”
The Ringside Voice: “Well,
there’s a surprise. They’re in the
ring working on Michael. The
crowd has gone mad. You can
hear it. It’s cheering and clap-
ping Dowden as he goes back
up the ramp with his trainer.
Well, Jack, I think we can all
agree you were right about the
crowd coming to see a man
beat. ..”
“Yes, Clive. It has often
struck me like that. You watch
for yourself from now on. You’ll
always see it with a champion.
They just want, as I figure it, to
see him take a beating. There’s
another thing about it, too. Td
put it this way : it lets them feel
they’re something they’re not.
Maybe we all like to feel We’re
something or we’ve been some-
thing we’re not likely to have
ever been, if you follow me ...”
“They want to see him brought
down ?”
“That’s it, Clive, as I figure it.
They want to see him brought
down to their 1eve1...”
“I suppose we’re all a bit that
way, Jack ...”
“I’d say so, Clive. It don’t
matter what the fellow is, if you
see what I mean. He might be
anything—a politician, an artist,
anything you like. The bigger
the more so. We like to see him
pasted. Size, y’ know, is just
relative. When he’s on your
level you’re as big as he i 5...”
“Well. Jack, it’s been nice
having you here...”
“Nice meeting you, too, Clive.
Goodnight, folks.”
The Ringside Voice; “Well,
that’s Young Strinbeer. He’ll be
fighting here in a fortnight’s
time. They’re now getting
Michael out of the ring..,.”
The typewriter clitter finishes
off as suddenly as the fight.
From the bed, languorously:
“Y’ know, Romney pet, I’ve an
idea Mr. Strinbeer’d be worth
meeting. Sounded interesting,
don’t you think?”
“Never heard him. What’d
he say?”
“Oh, quite a lot.”
“They all do.”
The green dressing-gown is a
crumpled heap tossed on her
curves. Romney pulls on double-
breaster suit-coat.
She sits up; the purr softly
luring, feeling for the chink: “I
thought, darl, you were going to
hit someone”
“Eh?”
“When they were fighting.
You were fighting, too”
“Oh, that. May have been”
“You used to be one —a
fighter? A boxer, pet, isn’t it?”
“It’s not for public consump-
tion” —
“I knew it. Before you came
to Sydney?”
“Upend your pretty self. I’m
taking you to supper.”
Chink in the armor wide open.
Easy. Romney of all impossibles
to have ever fought anyone.
How priceless. With those pudgy
hands; that fat face! That
round belly! He’d probably had
it from when he was a baby...
A lever to supper. Perhaps to
more than supper.
The Great Voice Off suddenly
silenced altogether with a click.
“I’ll drop this in on the way
out, if you don’t mind...”
Romney pocketing the typed
wad of copy-paper. Pleased with
it. Pleased with her. Very
pleased with Romney.
AS he has reason to be. When
did Australian art in general
and Lindly Conquest in particu-
lar ever have a greater doing-
over?
“.... the serious intent of what
can be called art in Australia
finally marred by the inclusion
of the work of one man, Lindly
Conquest. He has had the term
indecent hung on him, as they
say in the boxing ring. His work
here is not in the least indecent;
it is certainly vulgar, showing no
sense of design and totally lack-
ing in imagination..-..”
Familiar, of course. What a
carving-up! What Dowden did
to the Australian champion just
nothing to it.
They are out in the Cross.
“Yes,” Romney Brooke is say-
ing, “I must show you my flat
some time,”
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 201
Across.
I—Fragment1—Fragment what may be sat upon
by churchgoers and an Injun. (8)
s—Felony5—Felony by a place where the
Nightingale became conspicuous.
10 — Actuate the goblin with the
Spanish. (5) , . .
11 — Narrative to anger one, thanks to
the limb with everything but a
brush-turkey. (9)
12— “An ill-wind that nobody blows
any good.” (4)
13 — xhe poker-player who hasn t paid
to shrink. (3)
14 — Remain in support. (4)
17 —pal changes a mount. (3)
19 — Fe ain’t secreting such sluggish-
ness. (7)
20 — Country managed with a display
of ego. (4)
22 — Eyesore canonises you. (4)
23 — A squabble with any New York
jeweller. (7)
24 — Hamlet’s mother suggests what
ye must do if we would reap. (3)
26 A diffident gray., (4)
27 — Spirit and ego in Parliament. (3)
28— Just a fiesta for the blonde. (4)
32 — Pennsylvania sungod, with , a
saddle-horse, is supreme. (9)
33 — French Tommy is upturned about
the lubricant. (5)
34 — Most rational State home for
fliers. (6)
35 Shibboleth of father’s sabre. (8)
Down,
1— Skirts let the alderman and 1
comment on a matter which dis-
tinguishes trolley-buses from
trams. (10)
2 He who lassoes the little devil is
not fitting. (8)
3 European perch is on top of the
world. (4)
4_Girl who is a sorceress in medi-
cine. (5-5)
6 Correct milk-consumer seen on
a dexterous foreleg. (5, 4)
7 Forebear to deposit, an egg on a
part of the eastern world. (6)
8 — A thoroughfare, so —Begone! (4)
9 Pest of a catch to the baseball
outfield. (3)
15 — 34 across might suggest one of
those places where the residents
live at the Governor’s pleasure.
(5, 5)
16 — Catcher’s glove on a doubled Vic-
torian stream. (5, 5)
18—Oval drama passed through the
mincer. (10)
21 —Where Allied forces sunk three-
quarters of the Turkish fleet in
1827. (8)
25—Bardsley town in N.S.W. and a
system of residential tunnels? (6)
29 —It- means work for a musician in
the soup. (4)
3(K-Pool requires the use of this
dramatic hint. (3)
31 —Peas confused the imitators. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 200


s:a:
» V! 5
I R"<! QiSit.
? i ' 5 JjPT
if/y.i.% sjfso
r e .1 ,v
B*ar\ *>, \ «
9 r
1 A
DJ. W_ KampcL
m
*V-
AUS
-Tl
I.INE ■MVI.A*- U «
ss
OfM
<3
tjL*AV
EMS&a
,j..;
CV.* / **
r
HAiSStEfIA
p-4*£
vrAM
' I--’
A“0 >• I «., ■ ’VSifvjV'Mwno f- * Dij. Vlonq , ( r
Efl.A(j*u*.oW^
camres.
WEST,
TERRITORY OF
NEW' \OriXEA
vv
MOLUCCA
lino B O R N*<E O
v-X.-*-
ADANG,
*
...« lf\-'
•vr« ♦ •»-*
*££'&=>' **^^AvOH6A.
kadanu PAvAn ?
<-*• i
C=)
HI
NC
N fi
0“ - i
■X
Vv4?' 01
1
«V PAPUA
mu
>»»}
Hp „ W'c?’ .** £&£» l
•Shod* ‘fr’"?TC
«r“ ■"*.
SJ?.
fbrt
%
i".X.I JSOIOMfI
rate ■»•/•
\ . *■■'
.>
..Ss»*'^
•A .
Art
Ss*/»
l >h,
»»»
PROTB
?Js
•--.t m
OA - ••‘3^4W
ASMMO««r l«
* ::
O RAT K
4 A
VA-4
CA&PESTARI
SL*%H
A A
/
it lit
23
C tir CAPBitOBh
tropic
A/ALICE SPRINGS AREA
D
i\ V
USBA.NK
\\
o c
E A
•* . •gSJ'
•atbal
Bft-IT AISTRMIAN BIGHT
r .1 .v .»/ . i .v
A. 1070
V £• .4
raw
T/JTS MANIA
•-•-as,
3550!
H.D
The Hastings Deering Cattle Property is a "terminal" on the
railway and is only 90 miles from Alice Springs Railhead in
Central Australia. This property is 2,600 square miles in
area, which is more, than a road one mile wide across Australia
from Sydney to Perth, it is also equal to a road one mile
wide across America from New York to San Francisco.
This Hastings Deering Cattle Property has a twofold significance in near-
future world affairs.
The first is Australia's responsibility, both in natural desire and national duty,
to provide BEEF FOR BRITAIN.
The second is Australia's national security needs, which demand greater and
still greater beef production, for our increasing population and for the use
of our and our allies' DEFENCE FORCES.
"Bully Beef" is one of our munitions.
t', /
*4
A
“BEEF ROADS” • WATER • DEFENCE • FOOD PRODUCTION
HASTINGS DEERINC
NORTHERN RESEARCH RESERVES
HASTINGS PEERING (NORTHERN TERRITORY) PTY. LIMITED, Alice Springs and Darwin, N.T.
HASTINGS DIESELS PTY. LIMITED. Alice Springs, Northern Territory.
„ ~ ~ „ Lae, New Guinea.
i. .. .. .. Head Office: William Street, Sydney. M 0412 (33 lines).


*Ms entire page is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE
mV. AGRICULTURAL REIDS
November
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1952
1953 MAY BE BAD YEAR
FOR BUSHFIRES
Fire Chief’s Warning
■■■■■ ‘ -I—. »
The Chairman of the N.S.W. Bushfire Advisory Committee, Mr. H. Messer, said this week that bushfire danger will again
be very high this summer. It could be even higher than last year in some areas.
Mr. Messer said there was as much, if not more,
heavy growth about this season than there was
last season.
Heavy rains and floods during the autumn and
winter months brought on this heavy growth.
It will create a very great fire hazard when the
predicted hot summer dries it out.
This is a serious warning to every Australian
landowner. Last year’s tragic fires cost N.S.W.
over £6,000,000, in property, crops, livestock
and timber destroyed. Total losses for the
Commonwealth were astronomical.
Heavy losses to our export income, and serious
shortages of essential products on the home
market, were directly traceable to bushfires.
These fires, caused by carelessness and unpre-
paredness in the vast majority of cases, need
not have happened if the country had been
prepared to meet them. This year, taking heed
of last year’s severe lesson, we must prepare
defences early,
YOUR 6 POINT PUN
FOR FIRE PROTECTION
FOLLOW THESE RULES
To protect your property you’ve got to start
preparing immediately. Here’s a list of things
to do, if you want to reduce the fire hazard:
• Clear good, wide firebreaks around your
property, especially if it’s anywhere near a
railway line. Make the firebreaks as wide
as possible, because fires have a nasty habit
of jumping long distances if there’s any
sort of a wind behind them.
• Get rid of all inflammable materials under
or near your buildings, and see gutters are
free from sticks and leaves. The fire may be
some distance away, but heat and floating
sparks can easily ignite combustible sub-
stances.
• Give your local Bushfire Brigade all the help
you can. If possible, take an active part in
it yourself.
• Keep exhaust manifolds, mufflers, etc., on all
farm vehicles in good order. Decarbonise
tractors regularly, and carry a fire ex-
tinguisher and beaters with you when you’re
using them.
• Right through summer watch weather con-
ditions. Keep an ear tuned to your radio
for bushfire warnings and weather reports.
• Make sure you have reliable, efficient fire-
fighting equipment always ready. It takes a
long time for you to call out the Bushfire
Brigade. By the time they reach you your
property could be razed ... so it’s best to
equip yourself to deal with emergencies.
If you don’t get these things done before the
danger period starts you’re asking for trouble.
If you do you’ll give yourself a better-than-
even-money chance of beating the fires.
NEW FIREFIGHTERS
PACK A WALLOP
Just introduced, for this season’s firefighting,
are the new Moffat-Virtue “Rota-Duplex” Fire-
masters. There are two models. One, the
Mark 20, is fitted with a 2 h.p. air-cooled
motor. The other, the Mark V 3, is fitted with
the famous M.V. h.p. water-cooled motor.
Both these Firemasters use the newly developed
Moffat-Virtue “Rota-Duplex” Firepump. This
pump, developed after years of research, has
been especially designed for fighting fires.
It is a dual outlet, rotary-type pump ... with
a large maximum output, for quick filling of
vats and drums . . . and a high pressure to
give it reach and power.
Both the Mark 20 and the Mark V 3 Fire-
masters ... using this pump . . . give similar
performances.
• Maximum output . . . for quick filling of
tanks and drums . . . 25 gallons per minute.
• Maximum pressure . . . to give you enough
power to blast the fire right out ... 100 lbs.
per square inch at nozzles.
• Output at maximum pressure . . . for eco-
nomical use of water . , , only 6 gallons per
minute. (3 gallons per hose.)
• Reach of Unit... to get into the heart of tfie
fire, or the tops of burning trees ... 60 feet.
• The pump has an automatic, self-priming
action, to save time-wasting, tedious hand-
priming.
• It is fitted with twin, grease-packed, self-
aligning roller bearings for greater operat-
ing efficiency.
• Precision built to the finest tolerances, it can
still stand the passage of small particles of
dust and dirt without damage . . . because
it has been designed to do just that.
• Drive from engine to pump, in both Units,
is by highly-efficient, twin-vee-belts, adjust-
able to tension. Vee-belt drives prevent
transmission of vibration, and do not place
too great a starting strain on the engine.
The Mark VS “Rota-Duplex” Firemaster fitted
with the water-cooled M.V. 2\ h.p. Petrol Engine.
The continuous flow cooling system makes sure
this engine won’t overheat.
The Mark 20 ■' Rota-Duplex ” Firemaster..,. fitted
with a 2 h.p. air-cooled engine. . .and easy-to-use
carrying handle. Made in Australia by
Moffat-Virtue Ltd.
These new Firemasters are finished in bright-
red enamel, with highly polished brass and
copper fittings.
They are complete with hoses and spray-guns.
The N.S.W. Bush fire Advisory Committee has
given them full approval under its Bushfire
Brigade Subsidy Scheme.
Get full particulars from any one of the Moffat-
Virtue Distributors listed at the bottom of this
page.
STANDARD FIREFIGHTER
STILL IN PRODUCTION
Introduction of the new Moffat-Virtue Fire-
masters has not stopped production on the
standard Moffat-Virtue Firefighter, which has
become famous throughout the Commonwealth,
and in New Zealand, for the Stirling service it
has put in since its introduction.
This Unit, which was developed during the war,
in co-operation with the U.S. Army, was
originally standard equipment for the U.S.
Forces in Australia.
It consists of a sturdy, horizontally opposed,
twin cylinder piston pump, driven by efficient,
twin-vee-belts, from a Moffat-Virtue 2\ h.p.
V 3 Petrol Engine.
This pump is glandless. It has non-corrosive
ball-valves and seats . . . designed for easy
replacing. The efficient, block-type gearbox is
thoroughly dustproofed.
This pump produces a range of pressures up
to 250 lbs. per square inch.
A 1 iin. centrifugal pump is also fitted to fill
the 200 gallon vat quickly and easily. Under
test by Metropolitan Fire Brigade this pump
filled the vat in 4 minutes 5 seconds.
The Unit is mounted on a strong, channel-iron
base. It weighs 946 lbs. complete with tank.
N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND; Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Elder Smith & Co. Ltd., Bourke
St., Melbourne,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Ltd., Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-operative
Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
