

FOR PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION, BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
THE REDS AND PACIFIC RELATIONS-m®e 27
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3840
Wednesday, September 16, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
ST. MARY'S OF EDINBURGH,
SCOTLAND'S CATHEDRAL
MAGNIFICENT
EDINBURGH has the reputation of
being one of the most beautiful cities
in Europe and it is a place to which, it
may be said, history and romance were
drawn by the beauty of the natural sur-
roundings, and between them they have
created a city that is indeed worthy to
be the capital of Scotland. Since the
Second World War it has added
immeasurably to its reputation by staging
each year, in late August and early
September, the International Festival of
Music and Drama which now ranks as
the leading event of its kind in the world.
Edinburgh is also remembered as a
city of spires, and three of these belong
to the Cathedral of St. Mary which
stands at the western end of Melville
Street. It has been described as one of
the finest and largest ecclesiastical
buildings erected in Scotland since the
Reformation. The Cathedral was built
in 1874 to 1879 at a cost of over £lOO,OOO
in the Early Pointed Gothic style from
designs by the famous architect, Sir
Gilbert Scott.
By the middle of the thirteenth century
a separate variation of the Gothic, the
style almost universal throughout
northern Europe, had been developed in
Britain and the cathedrals were beginning
to assume the characteristics that make
them so easily recognisable today. The
most striking feature of the Gothic style
was the importance given to the towers,
of which there were often three as those
which surmount St. Mary’s Cathedral.
The twin western towers of St. Mary’s
Cathedra), were not added until 1917,
43 years after the building had com-
menced. The height of the great central
spire, 276 feet, is longer than the building
itself, which is 260 feet. The interior is
impressive in its severity but on one
wall hangs a notable religious painting
by A. Ek Borthwick which figured in a
£30,000 copyright action. The Chapter
House, added in 1890, contains the
Walpole Hall, commemorating the Rt.
Rev. G. H. S. Walpole, father of the
famous novelist, who was Bishop of Edin-
burgh between the years 1910 to 1929.


Writing
nt HQIHF
Kn?£ U * h4ve the urge t 0 write and the
cnwn Y rn.o° express jour thoughts on paper,
QeiViicT a ?? n , tra “ y° u to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
TaUcs, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Bead these extracts from Stott-Students
letters :-r-
-earnings from my writing total almost
£‘ 0. (Les. 11.)
During the past six months my acceo-
«t t 1 ? 068 ** ave re tumed me over £200.”
I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of fIOO/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted bv 3LO
( anfJ broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
Sfotli Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
m CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON —— —-
Tp STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 758)
AGE
The Red Page
FILMS IN OUR LIVES
N. H. Rosenthal, 8.A., Director of the
Department of Visual Aids at the
University of Melbourne, gives some
interesting facts about mankind’s most
popular art-form in Films in Our Lives;
An Approach to Film Appreciation
(Cheshire’s, Melbourne).
It appears from a Unesco survey that
there are 42,445,000 seats In the world’s
100,000 cinemas, what goes on behind
the Iron Curtain apparently excluded.
This sounds an enormous number, but
the possibilities of expansion are even
more enormous. While the people of
North America have to fight one another
for three-fortieths of a cinema seat, the
South Americans for one-thirtieth and
the Europeans for approximately the
same fraction, the people of the Dark
Continent have to squeeze themselves
into a two-hundredth and the Asiatics
into a three-hundredth. On the other
hand, the luxury-loving Australasian each
has one-tenth of a seat to stretch his
legs in.
Another remarkable fact is that, while
U.S.A. naturally leads the world in the
annual production of feature-films with
459, India runs her a close second with
289, while the United Kingdom, with 87,
only just beats Mexico and the Philip-
pines, which turn out 84 each—Australia
isn’t mentioned.
Why India stands so high. in film-
production is a puzzling problem. Pos-
sibly it is because the Indians are visual
people, a fact exemplified in their art,
architecture and carving, their love of
jewellery and color—they are looker
rather than thinkers. The American
aren’t visual people, but they have a grea
love of gadgets, and it was inevitable tha;
they should have seized on this inventioj
of the Englishman Friese-Grecne and
played every imaginable variation on ii:,
including giving it a tongue and three
dimensions.
The Americans thus got such a star
on the rest of the world that soon Swedes
Italians, negroes, Chinamen, Malays
Englishmen and Australians were sitting
in darkened halls gawking at the strange
doings of American cowboys, crooks
adulterous wives and husbands, statesmen
and heroes, as if they were going to give
them the key to their own problems, and
only India and Japan seem to have dis-
covered the energy to withstand the
foreign influx by making their own films.
Japanese, also a visual race, make
156 feature-films annually, so they can
listen and look at their own actors and
see their own prejudices depicted, instead
of looking at those of other people.
Another curious fact is that the man
to whom the film owes its release from
its early dull limitations and who was
thus responsible for the present colossal
business was George Melies, a Parisian
who hadn’t the slightest notion of using
camera-technique as a means of expres-
sion. He was a professional magician,
and his only aim was to mystify and to
startle. He found by accident that his
camera could be made to play tricks, and
he used it to make people fly through the
air, lift their heads off their shoulders or
turn into pigs and horses. Men like
John Ford, Eisenstein and Chaplin used
these devices more artistically to express
ideas, thoughts and introspections anc
even the workings of the unconscious.
Mr. Rosenthal’s analysis of th
various producers indicates, however, tha
as yet no great creative genius has arisen
who will use the new medium as Shak
speare would have used it if it had been
extant in his time. A visiting musician
said the other day that if Bach o
Beethoven landed in Sydney or Mel
bourne he would make a beeline for the
nearest jam-session. They would do
nothing of the sort —syncopation i
already contained in the works of the
great composers and they would have
nothing to learn from a jazz musician
But Shakspeare would have something to
learn from a Fox lot. If he had had the
choice of Writing, producing and acting
m terms of the stiff Globe Theatre con-
ventions, with its rickety old scenery, or
for some Hollywood corporation with its
almost limitless resources, there is no
doubt how he would have chosen as a
playwright. Whether the Hollywood cor-
poration would have put up with him, of
course, is another matter.
Mr. Rosenthal writes interestingly of
the genesis of the moving-picture in the
astonishment of Roget when he observed
through the spaces between the palings
of a shaded fence a vehicle passing in
bright sunlight and was surprised to see,
instead of spokes in motion, a series of
motionless spokes; then on to Plateau’s
development of an apparatus which
applied Roget’s principle of persistence
of vision; and then to the tremendous
development that came with the talkies.
His aim is to teach film-appreciation to
children. He recognises that the aim of
education is to teach people, not what to
but how to think, and he wisely
doesn’t peddle his own opinions.
F.S.
Another Sydney Novel
It is always pleasing, and a sign of
maturity in Australian literature, to see
one of the cities accepted for the back-
ground of a novel instead of the usual
historical or country setting; and
Marjorie Robertson’s To Ripen or to
KM (Angus and Robertson) has the
further advantage over some other recent
Sydney novels that it is free from both
documentary and sociological self-
consciousness—instead of trying to “lift
the lid off” the city, with an air of sur-
prise at her own intrepidity, Miss Robert-
son uses its streets, its parks, its harbor
and its people simply and naturally for
the purposes, of her story:
The park on their left band was sprinkled
with white bowls of light. Margot could
see water from the fountains sparkling in
falling on a mist on the
Archibald Memorial. A man was sleeping
huddled on a bench, his head flung back,
his face white and formless, with a black
hole for a mouth. “Let’s get a ferry, Peter.
We can catch the twenty-past eleven,”
The story is of a newspaper war-
correspondent, Peter Marriott, returning
to Australia after World War 11, not
quite sure whether he still wants to marry
Margot Hurley, the girl to whom he had
been attached long ago ; while Margot,
similarly, is not sure that she now wants
to marry him. Linked with this central
theme are a number of sub-plots, the
most notable being of a prostitute who
gets murdered, and of a smart, youngish
businessman, typical of the wartime and
post-war crooked, new-rich, who faces
financial disaster until somewhat improb-
ably rescued by an older money-juggler
who admires his bravado.
The love-story is of only average
readability. There are too many long,
static analyses of the states of mind of
the characters, slowing the action of the
story. The links between the various
sets of characters are tenuous; one
misses the depth of crookedness that
should underlie the swindler; and, in a
word, the novel is rather “magazinish.”
But, then, there is no reason why
Sydney should not have its successful
minor novels, as it has its magazines.
Miss Robertson writes pleasantly, and
her book is quite as competent and enter-
taining as the average popular novel from
overseas.
Are Reffos Pommies?
Dr. Mario Pei, who has published in
recent years two large books on language
and now submits The Story of English
(Allen and Unwin), seems to have set up
as an international authority on English ;
and no doubt, to an extent, he is—this is
a learned and informative volume describ-
ing the development of English from the
Celts and Hengist and Horsa, through
Chaucerian and Elizabethan times, to the
latest modifications in America and else-
where.
But, impressive as it all is, and interest-
ing as it is to learn, for instance, that
there are 10,000,000 illiterate people in
the U.S., of whom 2,700,000 are negroes
the single page which Dr. Pei devotes to
Australia and New Zealand arouses cer
tain misgivings.
Along with some more reliable infor-
mation, Dr. Pei informs us that ‘“pom
or ‘pommie’.... once reserved for immi-
grants from Britain” is now “along with
‘reffo’.... .applied to newcomers from
continental Europe as well.” He says
that “joey,” as well as “ ’roo,” is “an affec-
tionate nickname bestowed on the
kangaroo” ; and in a strange list of Aus-
tralian words borrowed from “native and
foreign languages” he classifies “cow”
along with “billabong,” “boomerang”
and “cooee,” suggesting that “it is pos-
sible that this is a loan-translation from
the French vache, similarly used,” Surely
“cow” has certain rude connotations in
English slang, if not quite the same as in
Australian, sufficient to suggest the origin
of our term.
Coming to New Zealand slang, Dr. Pei
discovers that “kapai” is synonymous
with “atta-boy” (it means, rather, “good”
or “very good”; an expression of
approval); that “pakeha” is used as the
equivalent of “stranger” (it means “white-
man”) ; and that New Zealanders call
their troops “kiwis” as the equivalent of
“doughboy.” Also he has the term
“bushwhacked” meaning “beaten”—this
reviewer has heard “whacked,” of course,
used with this meaning, but never “bush-
whacked.”
Dr. Pei seems to have relied on a read-
ing or misreading of British and Ameri-
can English Since 1900, edited by Eric
Partridge, for most of this information;
but that compilation, as was noted here
when it appeared, was itself not wholly
reliable.
The Yard's "Ghost Squad"
Judging by the cliches, Stanley Firmin’s
Men in the Shadows (Hutchinson) is a
collection of articles written for the
London “Telegraph” of which he is
“crime-correspondent.”
It is an account of the “ghost squad”
formed by Scotland Yard after World
War 11, a corps of policemen and police-
women sent out in plain-clothes to live
among crooks, gain their confidence, and
phone information to the Yard. Some
of them actually join the gangs and take
part in their crimes,
A woman-member helped break an
extraordinary gang of safe-robbers. The
Yard collated many reports of safes
robbed, all over the country, without
any sign of how they bad been opened
and closed again. Then it was found
that all the safes were of the same maker.
They followed one of the firm’s lock-
smiths,, but could find nothing against
him except that he regularly met a young
woman in the street. Following the
young woman, they met a man associated
with her.
Gaining this man’s confidence, a
“ghosf’-policewoman heard him say
merely that the suspected locksmith was
“only a mug.” Little bits of such in-
formation accumulated. Another “ghost”-
policeman found a man willing to sell
information, and finally was tipped-off
to a safe-robbery. The police attended,
but the robbery was switched to another
suburb—the gang-leader had a spy in
the police-service, and they never found
out who it was.
After two years of this kind of hide
and-seek, the police got definite infor-
mation, and arrested a gang of safe-
robbers who used a key to open the bank-
door and a key to open the safe; they
had 53 skeleton-keys on them besides the
accurately-fitting keys they had used on
the bank. The prosecution uncovered
the story of Santro, who kept duplicate
keys of every, safe he made, left the firm,
and after a few years planned robberies
from safes all over the country, always
remaining in the background, and dying
respectably unsuspected. His lieutenant
took over the business and, keys running
out, persuaded the locksmith first men-
tioned to provide duplicates of new safes
being made.
This book is the answer to the ques-
tion of whether there are “master-minds”
in crime. Santro was one. Then there
was the still-unknown planner of mail-
bag robberies. He organised robberies
of mail-trains, and when the police began
to arrest his gangs went on to organise
mail-van robberies. When this became
too dangerous, his gang started on air-
mails. Police are convinced that they
never got the master-mind. Then there
was, or is, the 80-years-old “Spider of
Soho,” who specialises in stripping men
of property by compromising them in
a legal way. His machinery is lewd
women and other concomitants of vice ;
his headquarters can be described, from
the curious pictures on the walls to the
gaming-tables and the microphones in
every room that lead to the old man’s
office; but no charge can be brought
against him.
There are also jewel-thieves; and here
again is a master-mind who has a list of
all the good diamonds in England and
when an agent of an American gang
wants three diamonds of a certain size
cut and weight, organises their theft from
English homes. There is a smuggler
who imports diamonds in his glass-eye;
a gang that arranges international
escapes for hunted men; and an account
of how in police-departments all over
the world they are getting expert in re-
constructing faces from victims’ descrin-
tions. A plate showing a picture draw
in this manner against photographs of
the wanted man taken after arrest shows
how astonishingly accurate the police-
artists can be.
Police have also perfected a method by
which numbers filed-off automobile
engines can be photographed—again the
plate should be a severe warning to
practitioners. Altogether it is a book
of interesting facts, although the soft-
pedal is very firmly pressed-down on
disclosures of the actual work of the
“ghost-force.”
Reviewed Briefly
Latest additions to Faber’s pleasa
and (comparatively) inexpensive series o
art-books in “The Faber Gallery” ar
a second volume of Degas, opening w
a lovely “Head of a Young Woman” a
showing a wide range of his wor
Chinese Painting with an introduction
Chang Zee ; and Douanier Rousseau, t
infant prodigy who was discovered at t
age of sixty and whose art has a stran
affinity with the poetry of “Bellerive.”
* ♦ * *
Called Back : Philip Gibbs (Hutchi
son). An American airman based in En
land during the last war falls in love wi
an English professor’s daughter and do
not tell her he is married until the war
almost over. Then she sends him back
his wife. The wife has been having
good war with a factory-executive; the
eventually go off together. Meanwhi
the airman’s brother has written to h
wife that he is going to ditch her for
German girl he met while occupyin
Germany; a letter from the airma
changes his mind; he comes home,
spurned, encounters a dangerous car
accident and is taken back into marita
custody. Then the airman is called-u
for service in England again; looks-u
the professor’s daughter, who forgive
him, and is to marry him when he crashe
in a test-flight. Said just like this, :
doesn’t sound much; and it isn’t.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
Sails and Whales: Captain H. A
Chippendale (Melrose). Autobiography
of a whaler. His father was a whalinj
skipper of Salem; the author was born
at sea, grew up at St. Helena, then
started his whaling career aboard the
famous barque Canton. Girls fought for
him, armed with parasols ; he was ship
wrecked on Desolation Island; saw
mild mutiny in Capetown ; whales stove
in the boats and lives were 105t... a
rather thin style, but there’s no doubt
about the salt in it.
Best Cricket Stories: chosen by E. W
Swanton (Faber). One of the Faber
“Best Stories” series. A varied and in-
teresting selection of fact and fiction on
battles at Lord’s and on the village-green
told by a variety of authors, including
A. G. Macdonell, Siegfried Sassoon,
H. A. Vachefl, Dorothy Sayers, Neville
Cardus and lan Hay.
« ♦ ♦ *
Cry Out of the Depths: Georges
Duhamel (Dent). The story of Felix
Tallemand, a businessman who ruth-
lessly pursues his ambitions, col-
laborates with the German occupiers
of Paris, and sacrifices all personal
relationships to his cold selfishness.
The effect of the book as a whole is a
little hazy—an effect which to some
extent may be due to a rather undistin-
guished English version. Tallemand is
able to rationalise all his misdeeds, be-
lieving throughout in the impregnable
rightness of his actions. This is credible,
but his ignorance of events and politics
is difficult to accept—the outbreak of
World War II took this intelligent
Parisian almost by surprise. Another
difficulty is that a central figure in the
book, a man called Zamin with a voice
that almost hypnotises Tallemand, and
who is some sort of German agent, is
not fully explained.


ms
■mmm
★ weehly news of activities , values and advantages from Anthony Horderns 9 if
Specials for the man on the land!
New shipment of Winches and Cham
gg* —
i
m
£
x
m
m
m
Extra special otters
From our agricultural dept.
Special offers that will help to make the man on the lands’
lot a happier one. These implements are a must for every farmer.
Earth scoops. All steel with wooden
handles, very strongly constructed . . .
3 C.F. capacity £l5/'/', 5 C.F. capacity
£l5/5/',
Diamond harrows. 20 teeth diamond
harrow, strongly built, replaceable tynes.
£5/11/' a section.
Hand trucks fitted with best iron
wheels.
Available with
Wheels. Price.
6iin. x Ijin. £6/6/'
64m. x Ijin. £7/0/9
7in x 2in. £7/13/9
7iin. x 2in. £B/6/9
7-jjin. x 2in. £B/17/3
rubber tyres if required.
Platform trucks. 60in. x 3 Oin. double
rail, two fixed two swivel cast trow wheels,
priced £l7/1/6. Rubber tyres £22/3/3.
Boss cub air compressor. Easily
\ adapted for high or low pressure work
. . spray painting or tyre inflation.
Patented, new designed, KBOO valves. Pis'
ton displacement, 2.3c.f.m. patented auto-
matic “Easi-start” protection for full load
starting, air filter and after cooler £4B/10/-
Plux Tax if applicable.
h df
“Dawn” all steel hand winches con'
structed throughout of high grade cast
steel and designed without keys and set
screws to shear or strip. Winches are
fitted with fabric lined brake, safety
panel and adjustable handle. For general
utility in lifting and shifting these
winches are particularly suitable because
of their lightness and compactness
combined with strength.
i ton £2O/8/-, 2 ton £26/17/-, 5 ton £37/1/1.
Coil chain
Pounds
Price. per foot.
Jin, 1/9 lb. 2J lbs.
iin. 2/8 lb. 41 lbs.
“Ideal” wall winch. Winch worm
geared producing a 10 to 1 ratio. For
quick bawling the handle, which is
adjustable, may be shifted to direct drum
drive. Overall measurements are
I'fin. x 16in. x 9in. and weight 75 lbs.
Winch is capable of handling loads up
to 7 cwts. £l3/17/6.
Galvanised forged shackles
■Jin. /bin. fin., fin, fin. lin.
Dee 5/6 6/6 7/6 9/3 16/10 21/'
Bow 5/9 6/9 7/9 9/6 16/10 21/'
Breaking strain.
5 ton 6 cwt.
14 ton 1 cwt.
Mam****
1 R J *1
Si
bs
4^
gdf
*
Anthony Horderns.’ Box 3713, G.P.0., Sydney. Telephone: M 3401


A Queensland Colonising Comedy...
Sir George Knee-deep in Mud
By CLEM LACK
IF only Sir George Gipps, Governor
of New South Wales, had not slipped
to his knees in mud, ruining both his
trousers and his temper, Cleveland,
instead of Brisbane, might have been the
capital city of Queensland.
An unimaginative and fussy little
martinet, Sir George never visualised the
Moreton Bay township having a future
as the capital of a separate colony, or
indeed becoming anything more than the
squalid, sunbaked little penal settlement
it was in 1842.
Strutting pompously along the deck of
the steamer Shamrock, he fretted and
fumed at the necessity for leaving Sydney
to settle a ridiculous quarrel among the
inhabitants of an insignificant and not
very respectable part of New South
Wales, as to the best site for their prin-
cipal town and port.
The people of Moreton Bay township
vociferously demanded Brisbane’s right
te be the capital and port, but the most
powerful interests in the new colony, the
Squatters, strenuously advanced the claims
of Cleveland, arguing that the presence
of the river bar and the distance of the
town from the bay entrance put Brisbane
quite out of court. What more suitable
spot, they urged, could be found for a
port than Cleveland Point, on the very
shores of the bay? They had in their
favor the solid argument that, because
of the river bar, all wool and other
produce had to be sent from Brisbane to
Moreton Bay in lighters, adding consider-
ably to expense and delay.
Sir George reflected that the question
would have to be settled speedily,
Moreton Bay had just been proclaimed
a free settlement, and settlers would soon
be flocking to the new country. There
was strong official prejudice against Bris-
bane as the future capital, and the
Colonial Secretary had directed that a
new site be chosen. Cleveland seemed to
be the logical place,
With the Governor on the Shamrock,
the largest of three new iron steamers
just arrived from England for the Hunter
River Steam Navigation Company, were
Henry Stuart Russell, pioneer pastoralist;
Major Barney ; the Governor’s private-
secretary, Watson Parker ; his A.D.C.,
Edward Merewether ; and Commissioner
Simpson, Commissioner of Crown Lands
for the Moreton Bay district.
“I will see this Cleveland site first,”
said Sir George, as Captain Gilmore
came to tell him that the Shamrock was
entering the. bay through the south pas-
sage. “Pray direct your course there,
captain, before proceeding to Brisbane.”
Sir George was impressed by the distant
prospect of Cleveland Point. “It seems
to me that Cleveland would be much the
better place for a port,” he said. “Bris-
bane seems a long way from the sea.”
Then, turning to Russell, he exclaimed:
“From all I hear, the settlement is a
dashed devilish spot for mosquitoes!”
While the Shamrock’s paddlewheels
churned the waters off Amity Point, the
Governor eagerly scanned the coastline
through his glass. Off Cleveland Point
he favorably commented on the appear-
aiice of the coast, and Captain Gilmore
dropped anchor about a mile from the
shore on the afternoon of March 24,
1842.
Alas, for the hopes of Cleveland and
the squatters who dreamed of its future
as the colony’s capital! The Shamrock
dropped anchor at low tide, the ship’s
longboat, conveying the vice-regal party
to the shore, grounded—and his Excel-
lency stepped up to his knees in muddy
ooze!
His face became a rich purple, and, as
Stuart Russell recorded, “floundering and
flopping through a hundred yards of deep
nastiness was quite enough to settle the
question between Brisbane and its rival.”
The luckless Governor and his party
had to wait for two hours until the tide
had risen sufficiently to enable them to
get back to the ship and clean the mud
of Cleveland from their formerly impec-
cable persons. Leaving a dripping trail
of liquid mud behind him, Sir George,
spluttering with fury, retired to his cabin.
Russell observed that his Excellency did
not look back at the haven in dispute!
Stuart Russell has hinted at a dark
plot to bring the Governor to Cleveland
at low tide; at all events, Cleveland’s
name henceforth was mud to the arrogant
autocrat. He decided there and then that
Brisbane should be proclaimed the port
of entry.
The population of Brisbane had hailed
with joy the “dishing” of Cleveland, but
their satisfaction received a rude shock
when Sir George irritably dismissed the
surveyor’s plans for the town. Provision
had been made for wide streets and semi-
tropical gardens: Gipps protested against
such wanton waste of her Majesty’s lands.
“Pooh!” he exclaimed. “Brisbane will
never be more than a bush village! One
would think you were trying to build a
city! Your roads are too wide, too much
land is wasted in reserves, and your allot-
ments are far too small. They should
be a quarter of an acre.”
He directed that the streets should be
one chain wide, instead of two chains,
and that the planned garden-squares
should be sold as allotments.
Dour and forthright Andrew Petrie
came to loggerheads with the Governor
over his ridiculous notion that Brisbane’s
streets should be narrow. “If you make
your streets narrow,” declared Sir George,
“the buildings on either side will keep
out the sun!”
Ultimately, all the plans had to be
scrapped to please his high-and-mighti-
ness, but after much persuasive eloquence
and cajolery by Captain Wickham, the
Government Resident, Andrew Petrie,
and other citizens, Sir George graciously
compromised for a width of 80ft. in the
principal thoroughfares.
The question of port was settled, but
Sir George was not in favor of Brisbane
as the capital. Before he hurried back
to Sydney to resume his squabbling with
the Executive Council he directed that
the country around Limestone (now
Ipswich) should be surveyed. He believed
that the future Ipswich should be the
logical capital.
This might have happened, too, had
not the squatters’ hopes been frustrated
for a second time. Their effort to make
Ipswich the head of navigation proved
a costly failure. The steamer Experi-
ment, bought by Pearce, a Helidon
pastoralist, grounded near Goodna on its
first run, and later, with her decks top-
heavy with cargo, she turned turtle and
sank just below the site of the present
Victoria Bridge.
Meanwhile, despite Sir George’s fiat,
the squatters were determined to make
Cleveland the principal port of the
colony. First shots in a war that lasted
for another twenty years between town
and country interests were fired when the
squatters sent a memorial to the Colonial
Office seeking the continuance of trans-
portation under a ticket-of-leave system.
Two ships, the Bangalore and Mount
Stuart Elphinstone, left England with
settlers and a few convicts on board, and
riots threatened when the ships reached
Sydney. The population refused to allow
the passengers ashore. Threats were made
at public meetings that Fort Macquarie
would be manned and the ships’ boats
blown out of the water with cannon balls
and chain-shot if the passengers
attempted to land. In line of fire from
the fort was another immigrant ship, and
in order to protect the ships from pos-
sible attack, the British warship Herald
moved in between them and Fort Mac-
quarie with her gun-ports open and her
carronades primed.
The authorities adroitly resolved an
ugly situation by ordering the Mount
Stuart Elphinstone, with the con-
victs aboard, to sail for Moreton Bay.
Brisbane was in an uproar. The entire
population turned out to a mass meeting
at the intersection of Queen-street and
Albert-street. Robert Cribb, a local
baker, was voted chairman, and brought
his chair with him on his shoulders from
his near-by bakehouse. Thomas Dowse’s
auction-rooms became campaign head-
quarters, and William Wilkes, editor of the
three-year-old “Moreton Bay Courier,”
dipped his pen in gall for blistering
attacks on the squatters who sought cheap
labor by reviving the penal system. A
stormy election was fought on the issue,
and the squatters were routed.
The ticket-of-leave issue was dead and
buried, but the war was not over yet.
The squatters now took revenge by ostra-
cising Brisbane and making Cleveland
their chief port. They marked out a
direct road from Ipswich to Cleveland
for the wool-drays. Wool-stores and a
stone jetty were constructed at Cleve-
land, a large brick hotel was built, and
Cleveland boomed while Brisbane lan-
guished. A Customs House was estab-
lished, the barque Blackfriars and other
ships loaded wool for London, Cleveland
became the social and political Mecca of
the squatters and their supporters.
Their plans were dogged by disaster.
On October 31, 1853, the vessel Countess
of Derby was wrecked when coming into
Cleveland for wool. A second and worse
blow followed a few weeks later. On
the evening of lanuary 20, 1854, the brig
Courier, after loading wool at Cleveland,
hauled off into Raby Bay. That night
the ship caught fire. Partly laden with
coconut-oil, she blazed like a great torch,
and was burnt to the water’s edge. For
years afterwards her charred bones lay
in the mud of Raby Bay.
The loss of the Courier hastened the
eclipse of the squatters’ port. No more
ships of any importance called there.
Masters point-blank refused to enter the
roadstead, and Cleveland’s star as a world
port sank, never to rise again.
The Right Technique
Bo.
PEDLER BUNKE, chief of the
publicity division of Potboiler
Productions, Inc., entered the
gilded sanctum of Hiram X.
Sturkelwicz, president of the com-
pany, a letter in his hand.
“This’ll interest you, H.X.,” .he
said. “It’s from Brunnhilde Kurvz,
the star—remember, she walked out
on us in a huff because the guy who
was her leading-man had a star on
his dressing-room door quarter of
an inch bigger than hers?”
Hiram X. shifted his feet to a
more comfortable position among the
forest of phones on his desk.
, t£ „,
Yep, sure, he replied. She was
a ,
Amt they all, chief. But she had
her points.”
“What! With Aer chassis? But I
gotta admit she could roll not only
her eyes And that last fillum she
™ in t, The P assl °o Pfi. certainly
stacked em in the aisles.
Grossed eight hundred ‘grand,’
H.X., and that labial clinch of
sixty-four seconds set a record that
still stands.”
Sure, I remember. The director
was beginning to think it’d need a
surgical operation to get ’em apart,
But that dame was a neckpain on
the set—l’m sure glad we got shot
of her for good. She got hitched-up
in Yurrup for the fifth time, didn’t
she?”
“You’re three divorces behind,
chief. Her eighth was the Imam of
Yippee. She divorced him because
she couldn’t stand the sound of the
water bubbling every time he smoked
his hookah.”
“Waal, P. 8., what’s the noos? Has
she married the Imam’s father or
his son by a former marriage?”
“Neither, strangely. Brunnhilde
decided to enter a Tibetan monastery,
She felt that there in that sheltered
haven she would be secure from all
those storms of life by which she had
been crushed so cruelly. She would
devote what remained of her life to
the pursuit of higher things.”
H.X. nodded approvingly as he
commenced the mastication of
another double-Corona.
“Swell! ” he exclaimed. “Great
stuff, that. Let’s see a four-column
spread, with photos of Brunnhilde in
a long white gown—tight-fitting, of
course, to show up her figger—hold-
ing a candle before an ikon and
looking soulful. Yep, that’s it!
Well, whadda we waitin’ fer?”
“She found,” went on P. 8., “that
she couldn’t get into a Tibetan
monastery —they only have men
there.”
H.X.’s face dropped. “Blast the
woman!” he burst out. “Couldn’t
she have chopped her hair off and
dressed as a man and got in? What
an opportunity for a slap-up, top-
sensation publicity stunt poured
down the drain! Women ain’t got
any brains,”
“Wait!” pursued the publicity-
man calmly. “Bmnnhilde was not to
be frustrated of her new-found pure
passion for metaphysical truths. No,
sir! She’s on a pilgrimage to
Mecca.”
The Big Shot nearly swallowed
the rest of his cigar whole as he
came bolt upright.
“Yep, you heard, .chief! A pil-
grimage to Mecca, along with
jewelled princes, holy-men and
scrofulous beggars. She ain’t even
taking a mink coat to protect her
when the sands of the desert grow
cold —in fact, she’s going only in
about two hundred dollars’-worth of
angel-skin rags to show how sincere
she is.”
H.X. banged the top of his desk
delightedly. “This is better than the
stand-up fight she had with Lulu
Dumbelle outside the Mocambo over
which one of them Robert Ditchum
was going to take up to his
Adirondack shooting-lodge!” he
exclaimed. “It’s sweller than when
she was rushed off to hospital from
an overdose of sleeping-tablets when
she was on her third honeymoon.
You’ll give it the woiks, P. 8.?”
“Sure, chief. Cables telling how
Brunnhilde was captured by a band
of savage Tuaregs when they raided
the salt-train she’d joined, and how
she was rescued by a spahi patrol.
The fans’ll lap it up—they’re half-
witted.”
“P. 8., I want you poisonally to
shoot across to Algeria, or Nyasa-
land, or wherever this here Mecca
joint is. You’ll be on hand,” de-
clared the great man, “to get Brunn-
hilde to sign on the dotted line.
Offer her four fillums at thirty
‘grand’ per. That woman’s got
brains! ”
PIDGIN
As a mere beginner in the use of
pidgin, in Western Division Papua in
the late ’twenties, I found myself more
flummoxed by the lingua franca than
by the boys’ attempts at fair-dinkum
English.
Here is my first day at the oilfields’
store; Enter very high-smelling bush-
boys, generously dappled with yaws. My
store-boy, Garli: “Taubada, boy ’im go
for bai somtig alog Sit-tor. lu savi for
sipik alog boy?” Myself: “What you>.
mean, Garli? What he want?” Much
jabbering, through two interpreters, then,
Chanel V steps up and says: “Sookoo-
bah!” with a real Mo technique. My-
self, wiping the froth off my eyebrow:
“What? Sugar?” Garli, much amused:
“No, taubada, I wantim so/i-bo-kah! ”
“Well, all right, Garli,” I said, surrender-
ing. “You sell him some.”
So Garli gets out the 28lb. box of
nigger-twist. But I wouldn’t let trade
proceed until I’d made every scented son
in the store repeat after me, alone and
in chorus, “Toh-bak-uh.”
I soon learned all have a tendency
to “lithp when they thay puth,” and
snake becomes “sin-nik,” but I never
again was asked for anything but “Toh-
bak-uh,” and I found the “boys” could
readily Understand my straightforward
English, though they may fall back on
pidgin in reply.
At a two-months remove from raw
bushboys (they were from the Fly River
and Dutch border-areas and had seen
few white men), I had natives helping
me change cylinder-heads on a Dodge ’26
model, and magnetos on a Model-T Ford,
and darned good at it; never a falter
when I asked, “Give me plug-spanner—
Stillson —split-pin” or whatever.
One day my least-productive shooter-
boy demanded more pay. “Why, Wah-
goori?” I asked. “’Becos, taubada, I
learn too much. I no say ‘phidgin’ for
‘bird’; I say ‘kang-roo’ not ‘sabi’; I say
‘mouse-organ’ not ‘simal-fella-bookis-iu-
puttim-alog-mouse-I-kettim-sig-sig.’ Better
I get more pay, eh, taubada?” He got it.
C.R.D.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, September 16, 1953
Vol. 74—No. 3840
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man’*
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971 j
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
A SOUND BUDGET
Probably the most satisfied Australian radio-audience
in history listened to Sir Arthur Fadden delivering his
Budget speech last Wednesday to a raoaning-and-
muttering accompaniment by Mr. Arthur Calwell, who
sounds over the air like a professional mourner.
Most critics, even those who in the past two or
three years have been sceptical of the Govern-
ment’s ability to stabilise the economic position and
put a check on inflation, were full of compliment for
what had been achieved and for the extent of the
Government’s offering of incentives. And if some
thought that more might have been offered in the way,
for example, of depreciation allowances to companies,
the agreement that it was a stimulating Budget
encouraging to business expansion and personal thrift
was common ground,
Mr. Latham Withall, of the Associated
Chambers of Manufactures, who rarely has a good
word for any official fiscal measure, declared that the
Treasurer’s proposals would “greatly benefit the whole
of the economy.” He said that “the all-round reduc-
tions in taxes must stimulate production and open up
new avenues of enterprise and employment.” The
sales-tax reductions (he thinks) will “help arrest the
upward trend in living costs and will increase busi-
ness turnovers in the numerous classes of goods
concerned.” He agreed that cuts in company taxes
would increase confidence in the future of industry
and Jielp to keep down production costs, and that
lower'company tax would encourage new investment.
The president of the N. S. Wales Retail Traders’
Association called the Budget “courageous and
splendid.” The president of the Sydney Chamber of
Commerce declared that “it really contained incentives
to both employee and employer.” And the president
of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of
Australia echoed the word “courageous” and had no
complaints except for the failure “adequately to reduce
the inflationary payroll tax” and “come to grips with
the problem of depreciation.” Such unanimity of praise
is so unusual and so striking as to call for record.
While Government expenditure had risen
under the lift of uncontrolled inflation of world prices,
flamboyant State squandering and labor shortage and
loaf by £9O million a year average over the past six
years for no extra return in services worth mention,
except in defence, the rise has tapered off to only
£7,130,000 on the current year’s estimates.
The public and the business community are get-
ting the benefit of the difference, plus that of natural
buoyancy in revenue and of £13,000,000 carried over
from prudent accumulation. Should the price of
primary products keep up—and, particularly, should
the present tendency towards industrial peace and a
search by workers for incentive-payments rather than
for leisure be maintained —there seems reason to hope
that next year there might be still further concessions.
But even if there are not, the Government will be able
to go to the country in 1954 with the claim that Aus-
tralia is better off by a long chalk in the matter of
taxation and employment than any other civilised
country.
Regarded as part of the 1951-52 stabilisation
plan, the Budget is politically the most important one
brought in by a Liberal-C.P. Administration since
1932. It is primarily a free-enterprise Budget and
also a lower-middle-class one, calculated to appeal to
the voting section without real party attachments. Its
specific concessions in educational allowances and in
taxation to the aged have an appeal to people with
small or moderate incomes. The abolition of differ-
ential rates as between property and personal-income
rates is as welcome as a saver of time and worry to the
moderate property-owner and investor as the monetary
concessions which it involves.
The most important political fact about the
1953-54 financial plan, however, is that it is not based
on artificial conditions, or on some conception framed
merely to win an election, but on the solid economic
fact of the moment. Little divergence of
opinion was obvious in the picture of the
stabilised position given by Treasurer Fadden
from that of the A.C.T.U. as voiced by R. M.
Eggleston, Q.C., in the basic-wage case before the Full
Arbitration Court last week when he submitted “that
substantial equilibrium” in the economy had been
reached, and that there was “no evidence to justify the
view that any action was required to stimulate or check
the expansion of the economy.” This completely
negatives Dr. Evatt’s views.
The whimpering leaders of the Federal party are
THE COBALT BOMB
abandoning the one rock on which “Labor’s” theories
are built—socialisation. And even Mr. Cahill admits,
apparently that Sir Arthur Fadden is a better man
than he is’ in the field of concessions to voters. He
says that Sir Arthur has “improved on suggestions for
tax-reductions which I made some tiipe ago.”
- T n nr i «. * ccr „„ „
When an N. S. Wales State Labor Premier can
admit a Liberal Treasurer has outstripped him in
generosity it is nearly time for the A.L.P. to send for
the liquidators. All the depression theories and
panaceas canvassed by “Labor” in the past three years
now smell so stale that they call for prompt interment
—that is, unless “Labor” itself insists on creating a
depression.
Beds for All Who Seek?
~. . .
When the Labor Premiers give vent totheira
whinge about the wool toatment.dealt out to them by
the Commonwealth Government at the Loan Council,
they always include a tear-jerkmg verse or so about
not being given enough money'forj 7w«fis
most lachrymose voice in the whole doleful chorus is
usually tH at bdonging to the representahve of New
South Wales. New hospitals, it appears,
here, there and everywhere if
the
for all who seek?” would receive, after close on a
century of waiting, a clear and decided “Yes.”
At present there are by no means beds for all who
seek. At Sydney Hospital, for example, as is pointed
out in a Liberal-party research-paper this week, the
average waiting-time for cases classified as non-urgent
STih? ZZ&SL** PoSitio “ iS “
. Back in Dr Schlink. chairman of Royal
Prince Alfred Hospital, made a survey P
accommodation in New South Wales and compared
it with statistics available from Britain, Europe and
America He arrived at a figure of 8.45 beds per
thousand of population for those countries and he
termed this the “world standard.” New South Wales
at that time had 7.2 beds per thousand of population,
which was equivalent to a shortage of 2266 beds. That
percentage-rate remained unchanged until the end of
the war which means that the extra hospital accom-
modation built between 1938 and 1945 merely kept
pace with the increase in the population, and did
nothing to catch-up the leeway between the 1938 rate
and the “world-standard.” There was an improvement
in the first couple of years, but the war period wiped
that out. Since then the position has become worse,
By June, 1951, the rate had slipped back to 6.6 per
thousand, giving a total shortage of 4600 beds, and
there has since been a further deterioration. Even by
its own standards of 1939 New South Wales requires
3000 more hospital beds; by “world-standards” the
figure is nearer 10,000.
Six years ago Premier McGrrrrr, now chairman ot
the Maritime Services Commission, was making a
policy-speech at the commencement of an election
campaign in which votes were more important than
facts. Among the many promises (mostly unfulfilled)
which he made on that occasion was one to build what
he described as “a modern medical centre” which
would include; — .
X. A cancer institute for research-work and treat-
ment, to cost £325,000 and to have 400 beds.
2. A general hospital with 800 beds.
3. An eye hospital with 200 beds.
4. A maternity hospital with 400 beds.
5. Accommodation for ear, nose and throat cases.
The Parliament elected in 1947 ran its course, and its
successor of 1950 has given way to the .current Parlia-
ment elected last St. Valentine’s Day, but not a brick
of that modern medical centre has ever been laid.
Two years later Health Minister Kelly was speaking
of spending £1 million “as soon as possible on a
restricted hospital-building programme” which the
Government regarded as “vitally urgent.” It was to
have top priority, but its rate of construction would
“be governed by the manpower and materials avail-
able.” The £1 million programme, he explained, was
part of a £2O million programme which the Govern-
ment was anxious to complete “with the least possible
delay.” That was said in February, 1949. By
November this same Mr. Kelly was admitting that “we
won’t be able to build hospitals for years because of
the shortage of materials.” The “top-priority” speech
had apparently been forgotten or else some other
projects had been graded top-priority-plus, because
the net loan expenditure for 1949 was £22y million.
Mr. Kelly was succeeded as Health Minister by
Mr. O’Sullivan. Twelve months ago Mr,
O’Sullivan complained: “Before we were told
to restrict spending we had 120 [hospital]
projects for N. S. Wales, which would have
cost £32 million.” The Minister had asked for an
allocation of £5 million for the year, so that even if
he had got all he asked for it would have been six
years at least before his “projects” were completed.
The amount he actually received last year, £2,450,000,
was a record hospital allocation, and if wisely spent
was sufficient to meet the needs of the current popula-
tion increase, though it would not have done much to
reduce the accumulated shortage of previous years.
Since the war the McGrrrrr-Cahill Government
has proclaimed that it regards hospitals (and schools)
as of paramount importance, but an analysis of its
spendings of loan-money shows that there is a vast
difference between their professions and their practice.
In the eight post-war years the average amount
allocated to hospital construction has been only
4.4 per cent, of total loan-funds; this contrasts with
5.8 per cent, in 1939, the last pre-war year, at a time
when “Labor” was in Opposition.
Despite ah its lofty protestations, “Labor” has
used the shortage of hospital accommodation for
political purposes, promising, planning and starting
projects which it knew could not be completed for a
long time, and endeavoring to lay the blame on the
shoulders of the Federal Government. The true posi-
tion is that after 12 years of “Labor” government in
New South Wales—eight of them peace-time years—
it is harder to get into a hospital than it was when the
party came to office. No amount of propaganda can
explain that away.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Wages and Hours
Tim Federal Arbitration Court, after
considering for over 12 months whether
there should be a return to the 44-hour
weejc, whether the male and female basic-
wage rates should be reduced or
increased, and whether there should be
an alteration in the quarterly method of
adjusting the basic wage (in accordance
with the C Series cost-of-living index),
fias decided only to abolish the quarterly
method of adjustment. Sir Raymond
Kelly, Chief Judge of the Arbitration
Court, said that reasons for the decision
would be given later.
What evidence was given to the court
during the long hearing it is difficult to
assemble, and the court’s reasons will
be awaited with interest. The fact
remains that it was the Federal Arbitra-
tion Court, after considering evidence,
and after Premier McGirr had already
adopted it as an N.S.W. measure, which
introduced the 40-hour week in 1947 (to
operate from the beginning of 1948);
and the court now, after considering
whatever evidence was placed before it,
is prepared to let this restriction on
working-hours continue.
In The Bulletin’s opinion the 40-
hour week has been the greatest economic
disaster to afflict Australia in modern
times. Following a period in which the
nation’s working assets were reduced
often to cracking-point (particularly
the railways) by the wastage of war, it
was decided by the Arbitration Court,
apparently accepting the assurances of
union representatives that the same
amount of work would be done in the
shorter period, that working hours should
be cut by four each week.
It is a notorious fact that the unions,
as a whole, made no attempt to increase
productivity per man-hour once they had
got the 40-hour week. In many cases
their rate of output per hour fell below
that which was common during the
currency of the 44-hour week. And since
1947 Australian retail prices, which are
a measure of the cost of living, have
jumped from an index of 132 to 256 in
March this year. In Britain the rise was
from 164 to 228 in the same five years, in
New Zealand from 127 to 185, in Canada
from 133 to 183. Australia’s rate of
inflation outstripped them all. It is
admittedly a fact that since the Menzies-
Fadden Budget for 1951-52, and the
concomitant financial restrictions, output
in many Australian industries has begun
to rise and costs and wages have tended
to stabilise. But in transport industries,
run-down before the 40-hour week began
to operate, the deadly effect of the cut
in working-hours is most evident.
A traveller touring the world in 1947
came back to Australia pleased and a
little astonished at the comparative cheap-
ness of the essentials of life in Australia.
A traveller returning today gets a sharp
shock. We are being priced out of the
world’s markets, and have lost our export
advantages of six years ago.
It has not all been the result of the
40-hour week. We had a demoralising
rise in wool prices, and the devaluation
of sterling in 1949 gave a further impetus
to inflation. But in connection with the
latter it is significant that in Britain itself
costs-inflation has been at a far slower
rate than in Australia.
It flies in the face of commonsense to
argue in Australia that real costs of
production can be cut in any way except
by a greater output in return for the
weekly pay-envelope. Monetary measures
alone are no solution. Output per man
(or woman) per week by comparison with
similar output overseas is the standard
on which competitive trade is resolved.
And in this connection Australia is
industrially very backward.
Since the court in December, 1950,
granted a “prosperity loading” of 19s. a
week, quarterly rises have increased the
wage in N. S. Wales by £3 18s. a week
and 18s. since the employers made their
application to the court for reduced
wages and longer hours. The A.C.T.U.,
Mr. Cahill, and most other critics have
viewed the decision to abolish quarterly
adjustments with relief equally with the
employers, to whom budgeting has long
been a gamble by reason of the effects
of quarterly changes in the whole arti-
ficial “C” index. It must have been
obvious to the blindest union-leader that
index trends should now be downward.
The most striking feature of the com-
ment from the “Labor” side, as in the
case of the Budget, is its agreement with
the Government rather than with its
own Federal political leader. Mr. Cahill,
now having no reason to fear that some
small rise in an adjacent quarter might
break the back of his near-bankrupt
transport enterprises, has declared that
the decisions would “give general satis-
faction.” Mr. Albert Monk, president
of the A.C.T.U., says that “the court’s
decision and the Federal Government’s
reduction of income and sales tax should
go a long way to stabilise prices.” Both
he and Sir Arthur Fadden apparently
hope that the court will ultimately pro-
nounce for periodic, reviews at longer
intervals.
Dr. Evatt, however, disagrees. His
view is closer to that of Mr. Jim Healy,
the Communist spokesman, than to that
of the A.C.T.U. president. Mr. Healy
says that through “the cessation of price-
control in some States real wages will be
further reduced.” Dr. Evatt says that
“costs are still mounting” and that the
November adjustment of the index will
show this and “all workers will forgo
the relevant part of the cost-of-living
index.”
The fact is that whether the court
agrees to periodic adjustments at longer
intervals than quarterly, either on specific
application to the court or through auto-
matic reviews, the whole arbitration
system of the Commonwealth needs over-
haul.* Conditions vary so much through-
out the Commonwealth that it is almost
impossible for any central tribunal to
deal with them even on a reasonable
set of indexes, which the present formula
certainly does not provide.
Anzus and Britain
While the British Minister responsible
for guided-missile and atom defence is
in Australia perfecting arrangements for
experiments vital to our security, Aus-
tralian and N.Z. Ministers for External
Affairs and Mr. Dulles conferring with
their military advisers in Washington
have announced that they had decided
against broadening the Anzus Treaty
to admit the United Kingdom. The
Ministers issued a mysterious com-
munique in which they said that
the Anzus Council “affirmed its readiness
to consider any measure which would
strengthen the defence of the Pacific
area,” but felt unanimously that “to
attempt to enlarge its membership, would
not contribtue directly and materially to
this end.”
The Ministers “affirmed the defensive
nature of the treaty” and “expressed
the determination of their Governments
that Anzus shall pay its full part in the
maintenance of peace and security in the
Pacific.” They “surveyed situations in
the Pacific specially affecting the security
of the three countries.” And they “took
special note of those areas in which
Communist aggression has led to out-
right hostilities, in particular it con-
sidered the situation in Korea and in
Indo-China.”
How any useful discussion can take
place or arrangement be made on Korea
without the British Government or on
France’s problems in Indo-China with-
out France it is difficult to say. But
something which is even more disturbing
is the statement that the council
“examined the reports from military
representatives who were appointed at
its first meeting last year to advise the
council concerning the military aspects
of the implementation of the treaty” and
that it “reviewed its own position vis-d-vis
other existing defence arrangements in
the Pacific and considered the place of
Anzus in the development of a broader
collective security for the area.”
This seems, if the discussions were not
futile, to involve confidential review with
the United States of our secrets mutually
held with the United Kingdom.
An assurance was given in Canberra
last year that the pact was only intended
to provide a forum for exchange of ideas.
But this did not square at all with the
conception of Mr. Spender, when the
scheme was born, of an arrangement
under which the three Governments
would “mutually recognise that, in the
event of an armed attack in the Pacific
upon any of the three parties, each of
the three would act to meet the com-
mon danger in accordance with its con-
stitutional processes.” Mr. Spender was
quoting and adopting the words of
President Truman.
This, like the proceedings which have
just taken place, smack very much of an
undertaking to go to war automatically
if the United States is attacked no matter
what the position of the rest of the
British Commonwealth. And what makes
the position worse from the British point
of view is that the statement by the Presi-
dent of the United States made it per-
fectly clear that the approach came from
Australia and New Zealand, and that it
was made without consulting the United
Kingdom, its partner, or the other
Dominions.
The United Kingdom would scarcely
be human if it did not ask politely
whether Messrs. Casey and Spender are
contemplating leaving the British Com-
monwealth and joining a United States
Pacific Empire. And how they can dis-
cuss their own defence arrangements
without discussing those of the U.K. in
the Pacific.
The position is most unfortunate, com-
ing on the eve of the Woomera experi-
ments. Defence of Australia cannot be
effectively discussed, in view of the
direction from which attack is likely to
come, without dealing with Indian Ocean
and Malayan and Indonesian problems
and without agreement with the rest of
the British Commonwealth.
Bad Start in Senate
In the new Senate the Federal Govern-
ment’s majority is so small that one sick
member can wipe it out and leave legisla-
tion automatically negatived, as happens
under the Constitution when there is
equal voting.
It seemed certain that Senator Mattner,
the existing president who had just re-
turned from the Coronation much im-
proved in health, would be re-elected.
But he was not —he was defeated by
14 votes to 12. In any circumstances it
would have been an ungracious act
towards a distinguished and decorated
returned soldier and a man who had given
his service ungrudgingly. As it turned out
he was defeated by a newcomer to politics,
an N. S. Wales grazier who, as the Vic-
torian and S. Australian papers were at
pains to point out, is a son-in-law of Mr.
W. J. (“Knockout”) Smith, of “the Glass
Company.”
Had Senator McMullin been an ex-
perienced politician known for his know-
ledge of procedure and Parliamentary
law and customs there might have been
no room for feeling about it. But
a fly in the ointment was the Press
statement that the change had been
achieved by a bloc of N. S. Wales mem-
bers who felt that their State had been
slighted in Ministerial appointments and
who were in any case chagrined at the
co-operation which existed between
Senator Mattner and Mr. Cameron, the
Speaker. Sections of the daily Press,
which dislike the Speaker, added to the
ill-feeling by construing the president’s
defeat as a party snub to him.
The parties next decided to replace
Senator George Rankin as chairman of
committees —he is a sick man. In his
place was elected Senator A. D. Reid, a
Country-party Senator and formerly an
N. S. Wales Minister. He is as far ahead
of Senator McMullin in Parliamentary
experience, knowledge of procedure and
power to exercise authority. But his
years of training and personality have
earned him only the junior position in
the House.
Whatever the undercurrents which pro-
duced the changes, and the kind of
changes they are, they make a bad start
for the next Senate elections. They have
advertised a division in the Government
parties in the Senate and how little merit
counts in elections to office and also that
there is an N. S. Wales cave in the
Liberal party which intends to use its
strength for parish-pump purposes.
A Stink on the Harbor
People in the usually salubrious Sydney
suburbs which decorate the Harbor
shores from Double Bay to Watson’s Bay
have been in the middle of a row between
their local Woollahra council and
Admiral McGirr’s Maritime Services
Board as to whose job it is to keep the
beaches clean.
A smell that could be cut with a knife
has been lately wafting over foreshores,
gardens, lawns and streets. It pervades
food-shops, gets into living-rooms, comes
through bedroom-windows and slaps
tram- and bus-travellers right in the npse.
It arises in thick waves at low tide,
whereupon birds fall silent, humans pull
wry faces and domestic pets vanish in
the direction of the cleaner ocean side.
The council sought the cause. It lay
in heaps of rotting harbor rubbish —
putrid fruit, seaweed, ship’s-galley waste,
grease, defunct land and sea creatures,
garbage of one kind and another —carried
in by spring tides and left when the
tides went out. The council said the
M.S.B, should clean it up. The M.S.B.
said it gives the council £250 a year for
that purpose. The council retorted that
this was a special case. The M.S.B. said
the smellful stuff was carried to the
beaches in stormwater drains. The
council pointed to the dry weather and
laughed derisively.
Doctors began to talk of the danger
to health. Woollahra mayor said the
only way to get permanent cleanliness
was to reclaim the Rose Bay tidal flats,
that this was provided for in the Cumber-
land County plan but that the M.S.B.
opposed it. One of Admiral McGirr’s
“spokesmen”—all these outfits have
“spokesmen”—said the onus was on the
council by agreement; this was denied.
Metropolitan Health Officer Dr.
Donellan reported the thing to Minister
for Health O’Sullivan, saying Minister
for Local Government Renshaw should
settle the dispute. Murray Robson,
M.L.A. for Vaucluse, said Premier Cahill
was Ministerial head of the M.S.B.
O’Sullivan announced he would report to
Cahill. Cahill will read that the M.S.B.
refused to increase its annual payment
to the council and the council therefore
refused to clean the beaches. Sub-
sequently the council agreed to clean
them in a sort of pro tern action until
the dispute is settled.
Which shows what can happen when
two different authorities begin passing
the blame. The stench showed up as
soon as the weather warmed. It will get
a lot warmer. So will the people
affected unless agreement is reached. A
citizen who finds a stinking thing in his
backyard either burns or buries it with-
out arguing how it got there or who
should dispose of it. But authorities
don’t do things as simply as that, even
when the stink is in the front yard. And
the Admiral, who inhabits a gorgeous
new palace far across the harbor at
Circular Quay, never did, as Premier or
Admiral, pay much attention to stinks
or accept any responsibility for them.
The Champion
The wage-plugs who listened to Fadden’s
outline of the new Budget last Wednes-
day night must, among other causes for
satisfaction, have observed that Arthur
Calwell, Deputy Leader of the “Labor”
Opposition, was determined to champion
their cause.
Almost at every pause in the Budget
speech Mr. Calwell tried to get his word
in, but it was drowned in the general
noises of approval and disapproval.
Then, as the House went through the
succeeding committee phases, the cham-
pion kept on trying. He had something
to say for the workers whose interests lie
so closely to his heart, and he was deter-
mined to say it.
But time and the irresponsibility of his
own colleagues seemed leagued to defeat
him. At every break he tried to get his
word in, but “Labor” uproar and
counter-noises from the Government side
drowned him out. Then, with time run-
ning out, his chance came. There fell a
second of silence. The workers’ champion
rushed into the breach.
“What,” demanded Mr. Calwell,
“have you done about beer?”
Westraiia Looks Ahead
“J. 8.8.”: Revisited after a lapse of
many years, Westraiia has an air of
being prosperous and intending to stay
that way. Gold, wheat and wool built
up the State to its present stature and
remain its prime assets, but their domin-
ance is now under challenge. In a sense
some of the smiles on the face of Perth
are directly traceable to the tears which
flowed so readily down the cheeks of
Persia’s Dr. Moussadek, for it was the
closing-down of Abadan that set Anglo-
Iranian searching for an oil-refinery site
that would not be so susceptible to out-
breaks of violent nationalism. The
answer, they decided, was Kwinana, on
Cockburn Sound, 15 miles south of Fre-
mantle, where work upon the construc-
tion of a £3O-million refinery is now in
progress.
Although Kwinana is within easy reach
of Perth it was almost without population
until Anglo-Iranian came along, but its
residents now expect it to supplant Kal-
goorlie as Westralia’s second-largest city.
The Government has resumed land for
town-purposes on an assumption that
homes will be required for 12,000 people
within a few years and ultimately 40,000.
Not all these will be dependent upon
oil for their livelihood; B.H.P. is build-
ing a steelworks alongside the refinery, a
British concern is spending £3 million on
a cement plant, and there will be the
other ancillary industries commonly asso-
ciated with these. Kwinana steel will,
of course, be made from Yampi Sound
iron-ore; at present all the ore mined at
Yampi is sent halfway round Australia
to New South Wales to supplement the
supplies from Iron Knob (S.A.).
The crude oil to be refined at Kwinana
will be brought to Cockburn Sound from
Anglo-Iranian’s wells in various parts of
(i Continued on next page )


See the “Farmers’ Boy” exhibit at Grazcos’ Machinery
Display Stand, No. 109 Smith St., Boyal Melbourne Show
i m
H
The “Farmers’ Boy” with Rotary Hoe attached
“FARMERS’ BOY” Series II: Mark XII li h.p. Villiers Engine.
Standard Equipment; 3 Cultivating teeth. 2 hoeing blades, 10in.
Tool-bar, 3 universal standards, and power take-off.
Price F.0.8.-F.0.8. Capital City Ports, £124/18/9.
EVERY HOME with an Acre or Mere Needs a
“FARMERS’ BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit for Almost Every Purpose
Rotary Scythe.
Paspalum guillotined t
Plough
Lawnmower
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS Co.-op. Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney.
Victoria: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 90 William St.. Melbourne
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S (Q’land) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
S.A.: CLUTTERBUCK BROS. Ltd., 61-63 Bindley St.. Adelaide.
W.A. and Tasmania: Distributors to be appointed.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.
74 Castiereagh Street, Sydney.
Generator
o 3
Cutter
Bar
Other attachments include:
SPRAYER, COMPRESSOR for inflating
tyres, spray-painting, etc., FURROWER,
TRAILER, SAWBENCH, DUSTER,
MILKING MACHINE AND DISC
HARROWS.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your State Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “FARMERS'
BOY” and ACCESSORIES.
NAME •
ADDRESS
the world, but there is a team of men in
Westralia working flat-out to prove that
Australia has oil resources of its own.
West Australian Petroleum Pty. is a joint
venture in which two oil concerns, Caltex
and Ampol, are interested, and the test-
drill which it started on the shores of
Exmouth Gulf on September 5 rep-
resents years of exploratory work and
vast sums of money. Perth people pro-
fess not to be too sanguine about the
chances of oil being found in the State’s
Nor’-West, but the visitor has only to
scoff at the likelihood to find how much
of the oilmen’s optimism has spilled over
on to the general public.
In the meantime real oil is being found
along the Westralian coast in the revival
of the old whaling industry. Three
whaling outfits are operating in
Westralian waters —the Commonwealth
Whaling Commission at Carnarvon and
Nor’-West Whaling at Pt, Cloates, about
100 miles further north, each with a quota
of 600 whales, and the Cheyne Beach
company at Albany, with a quota of
100. The Whaling Commission has just
completed its quota for the season and
the two companies are close to complet-
ing theirs. The whale-oil is shipped to
Britain and Europe for the making of
margarine; the rest of the catch, con-
verted to whale-meal, finds ready sale in
Australia as fertiliser and stock-feed. The
total value of this season’s whaling will
be round about £li million.
Old hands in the West who remember
the days when their potatoes had to be
imported from the eastern States take
pleasure in the thought that the traffic
is now the other way. With pride they
inform the visitor that the beans he is
eating were grown “right up in Car-
narvon” and that some from the same
spot have been sold as far afield as Mel-
bourne —which may seem rather astound-
ing to residents of the Cabbage State, but
is quite right and proper in the eyes of
Westralians.
POLITICAL POINTS
Evatt described the Budget as “cruel.”
He added “to pensioners,” but he meant
to his chances of becoming Prime
Minister next year.
• 0
Fadden had scarcely finished announc-
ing the abolition of entertainments tax
when Victorian Premier Cain proclaimed
that he intended to whop it on again
as a State tax. Cosgrove wasn’t far
behind, adding to his Press statement
that he proposed to ask Menzies to use
the existing Commonwealth machinery
to collect it for him. Bob isn’t likely
to fall for that one.
0 0
Melbourne clergymen have been quick
to see the implications of Cain’s entry
into the entertainment-tax field. On
Sunday one of them pointed out that the
money received from the new tax would
probably exceed the income from Barry’s
lottery; another said that the tax
destroyed the Government’s principal
argument for a lottery, in that it could
no longer claim that it could not raise
money for hospitals without a lottery.
Lyall Dixon’s comment struck home
hardest. He said that to establish a lot-
tery now would make it clear that the
Government’s interest was “to implement
gambling rather than assist hospitals.”
0 0
Senator Kennelly, secretary of the
Federal A.L.P., speaking at the annual
convention of the S.A. branch of the
party last Thursday, exhorted the faith-
ful to “remember we are members of a
Socialist party.” That is something the
electors would do well to remember
when “Labor” goes electioneering next
year.
0 0
Victoria has a Potato Research Station
at Healesville. Rumor says they’re
cutting out the “Re.”
0 0
Calwell’s action in preventing Press
photographers from getting pictures of
Fadden presenting his Budget unless
equal publicity was given to Evatt was
rather petty. Irrespective of what party
is in power public interest in Budget
week is on what the Treasurer has to say ;
Opposition comment is traditionally
savage, but it is not news.
The stunt must mean that Calwell has
given away his ambition of being the
next Federal Treasurer. No one is fonder
than Arthur of being photographed.
When he was Minister for Information
his likeness must have received wider
circulation than King Gillette’s.
0 0
Hearing of the wages-and-hours case
lasted over twelve months; announce-
ment of the court’s decision took only
four minutes. The four questions sub-
mitted to the court were decided thus:
1. Employers’ application for reduction
in basic wage: Refused.
2. Employees’ application for increase in
basic wage: Refused.
3. Employers’ application for increase in
standard hours: Refused.
4. Employers’ application for cessation
of quarterly wage-adjustments: Granted.
The effect of these decisions is that the
basic wage is virtually frozen at its
present rate (in Sydney £l2 35.). Trea-
surer Fadden seems to assume that the
court will make an annual adjustment;
union opinion is that no adjustments will
be granted without an application from
an interested party.
“Labor,” political and industrial, is
strongly critical of the quarterly-adjust-
ment decision, claiming that it means that
wages will always be lagging behind
prices. The complaint assumes that prices
will continue to rise, but the trend over
the last three quarters indicated that
relative stability had been achieved;
quarterly increases for March, May and
August were Is., 3s. and 2s. respec-
tively. Some authorities were even
expecting a slight decrease next quarter.
Index-figures will presumably still be
published, so it should be clear by the
THE VACANT NEST
middle of October, when the next index
is due, whether the union complaint has
any foundation.
• •
Adelaide A.L.P. nearly fainted when
Glenelg sub-branch put up a motion to
give the Federal Government powers
over the State electoral laws “to rescue
the people of any State from a gerry-
mander which they were powerless to
end by their own elections.” It was
hurriedly thrown out by 158 to 32. Those
Glenelg fellows evidently hadn’t thought
of how it would affect “Labor” Govern-
ments in Queensland and N. S. Wales,
• •
Seeking a tag to hang on to the
Budget “Labor” has fastened on to “the
half-crown Budget,” in sneering reference
to the increase in the pension-rate.
Haylen appears to have coined the
phrase; Evatt has adopted it, but it isn’t
likely to stick. When the Menzies
Government came to power the pension-
rate was £2 2s. 6d. Four successive
Budget-increases —7s. 6d., 10s., 7s. 6d.
and 2s. 6d. —have brought it to £3 10s.,
and at the same time the means test has
been considerably liberalised. What is
probably of more importance to the
pensioners than the extra half-crown is
that the rise in the cost of living has
been arrested. This is something the
policy advocated by Evatt and Haylen
could never have done.
• •
One result of the coming into being
on September 7 of the Central African
Federation is that a New Zealander be-
comes Prime Minister of Southern
Rhodesia, He is Reginald Stephen Gar-
field Todd, formerly of Invercargill, and
he was recently elected leader of the
United party in succession to Sir Godfrey
Huggins, who has become Prime
Minister of the Federation after 19 years
as Prime Minister of Southern Rhodesia.
The Central African Federation is be-
ing set up as a result of negotiations
which have been going on for a long
time; it federates for a trial period of
10 years the two Rhodesias and Nyasa-
land, the arrangement being that at the
end of that period the three colonies will
either become a Dominion or go their
separate ways again. The three terri-
tories have a population of six million
Africans and 177,000 Europeans; the
natives are more or less evenly distri-
buted, but threequarters of the whites
live in Southern Rhodesia.
• •
Opposition-leader Nicklin, urging in
Brisbane Parliament the appointment of
an independent tribunal to fix Parlia-
mentary salaries and allowances, said:
It would put members on the same basis
as every member of the community who
works under an industrial award.
Jesson (Hinchinbrook): We don’t work
40 hours a week. We work 90 hours a
week.
Yes, but for how many weeks?
• •
From Tasmania comes the strangest
complaint of the year—Premier Cos-
grove’s grouch that the Federal Govern-
ment is deliberately trying to bring about
unification. He claims that Canberra’s
financial policy is squeezing the States
and that although Federal Ministers
declare their adherence to the Federal
system “they are really working for
unification.” Apparently Cossy has for-
gotten for the moment that he himself
is pledged to the “Labor” platform, which
includes unification.
• •
The most entertaining thing arising
from the Commonwealth’s dropping of
entertainment-tax was Cahill’s reaction:
I have no wish to reimpose a tax from
which the people have been freed, but this
whole question can be considered when
the time is opportune I do not think we
should tax people for the sake of taxing
them. I think it is only when it is abso-
lutely essential in the service of the State
that you have to impose taxation. I would
sooner remit taxation than impose it. But,
at the same time, we have responsibilities,
and all avenues have to be examined. At
the appropriate time this field will be
examined.
Considering that Cahill has been belly-
aching for months that the Common-
wealth has left him no fields of taxation,
it would have been thought that he had
already examined not only all the
avenues, but all the alleyways and back-
lanes, too. Film-fans and racegoers
aren’t likely to be left hoping for very
long. When it comes to imposing a tax
no time is so appropriate as the present.
• •
Gartside, one of the two Hollway
Liberals in the Vic. Upper House, has
produced a bill providing for the fixing
of rents on present instead of 1942
values, for owners and tenants to agree
mutually on rents without reference to
the Fair Rents Board, and for speeding-
up of adjustments by the board. Hollway
hopes the Cain Government will accept
the bill. What, and give those landlords
a fair go?


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS”
“Jasby”: Any city newspaper in
search of a columnist might do worse
than send a talent-scout to n.-w. Australia
to round up the multum-in-parvo genius
who modestly describes himself in the
“Carnarvon Times” as “Our Marble Bar
Correspondent.” A snippet from a
recent issue;
Slim Paul’s in town. Slim Paul’s in town.
Slim Paul’s in town!
I’ve never met Slim, but that little item
gives me a clearer picture of him than
I’d get from a three-decker novel.
■£♦
“R.W.P.”: Remarkable fellows, these
New Australians, but the daddy of them
all must be the one described in a story
in the “A.B.C. Weekly”:
As the hours crawled by he worked,
encouraged, wept, smiled and
joked, tidied, fidgeted, lifted and carried,
broiled water, washed linen, brewed coffee,
and never left the side of the woman on
the bed.
♦J» ♦> $
“Mabsout”: I might be missing out
on some good jobs, but I don’t answer
those 6in. ads for men “with executive
ambitions,” I can never understand their
pompous language. When I read that
someone is needed “of the calibre
requisite to advance into the higher
sphere of managerial responsibility” I
can’t decide whether they want a new
managing-director or merely a superior
“Care to make a fourth at bridge , Colonel?”
type of office-boy. Although Fm not
sure whether I have “the necessary
adaptive personality to integrate and unify
the business problems of a high-class
clientele together with a thorough know-
ledge of modern production-control from
drawing-board to showroom, plus the
ability to co-ordinate, supervise, inspire
and lead a team of ton-flight salesmen,”
Fd give it a go if I wasn’t in such a
mental fog about what it all means. I’ll
admit that the money usually sounds
good, though actual figures are rarely
mentioned. “The successful applicant
will receive a salary commensurate with
the administrative and departmental'
duties involved and according to qualifi-
cations, experience and scholastic attain-
ments.” In my case that could mean 10-
bob a week and keep. Still, I suppose
they’d have to give a man the basic wage.
. ♦> ♦♦♦
“Blackstone”: It wasn’t the first time
the defendant had been before the court;
he was well and wearily known to every-
one there and his record covered several
closely-written sheets. As usual, the
charge was breaking-and-entering, and
the police asked that bail be refused.
His lawyer was on his feet instantly, pro-
testing that his client had “a splendid
and untarnished record.” The Beak
nearly fell out of his box, and the
prosecutor looked as if he were going to
have a fit. “That is,” went on Silver-
tongue smoothly, “he has never once
failed to answer his bail.”
❖ ♦♦♦ «i
“C.Q.”: An early Melbourne duel
which seems to have missed the historical
archives was to be fought between a
Norwegian windjammer captain and an
Italian count on the sands of St. Kilda.
The captain had the choice of weapons,
and his second, an ex-whaler, suggested
harpoons. The count took the count,
❖ i* *t*
“Tyabb”: “Sackfair’s” Scandinavian
friends (B. 26/8/’53) were rightly amused.
“Skoll” does mean bowl or drinking-
vessel, but literally it also means “skull”
—and that was the favored drinking-
vessel of their Nordic ancestors, whose
Paradise was a place of fighting by day
and drinking by night, and whose worth
was assessed by the number of “bowls”
they could display.
“Tim Burr”: “Skoll” used convivially
means “good health.” The German
“schale,” meaning “bowl,” probably has
a common origin ; but the German toast
is “prosit,” meaning “health.” The
Anglo-Saxons had the wassail-bowl —
“wes hail,” be in good health, Nor-
wegians, especially in mixed company,
toast “Din skoll, min skoll, alia vackra
fleichers’ skoll”—“Your health, my health,
and t all the pretty girls’ health.” The
British seafarers’ toast “I looks towards
you,” and the reply, “I catches your
eye,” is very neat and direct.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Vingter”: Among the unsung heroes
of the last war were the duty drunkards.
Only those of the toughest moral and
physical fibre made the grade as a d.-d.,
whose job called for shouting, at mess
expense, for all visitors, with the
obligation to refuse no drink proffered
by any mess patron. The only privilege,
and a doubtful one, was that all the
incumbent’s own libations, both in his
official capacity and to satisfy his own
thirst, were free. Many foolhardy souls
volunteered for the post and then in-
curred the penalty of being hoisted on a
stretcher to the mess-ceiling level to sleep
off the effect of their feeble attempts to
discharge their duty. Those who came
through the ordeal on their feet were,
almost to a man, content to rest on their
laurels, but I remember one R.A.A.F.
type who volunteered for and carried
out the job daily on the sea voyage
from U.S.A. to Australia. To the lesser
mortals who watched him it seemed that
the superman was always more sober
when the bar closed than when he com-
menced his tour of duty. How he man-
aged it was his own secret.
* *
* i
“Nimrod”: South Australia’s Whyalla,
with one child to every seven adults,
claims the highest ratio of children to
adults in Australia. But Wittenoom,
in the nor’-west Australia, only five years
old, has 200 children among its 750 in-
habitants. Most have been acquired, but
“Dear sirs: Re your advertisement 'Office-space to let' . . .
the number of native-born is increasing.
The first baby was born in Wittenoom
in 1950; in 1951 there were 60. Most of
them arrived in Port Hedland or Perth,
but now that the opening of a £30,000
hospital at Wittenoom has made child-
bearing easier, the town should have no
trouble in maintaining its intensely vital
statistics.
❖ ♦♦♦
“Euroclydon”: What disturbs a
Chinese gardener? The stolid old Chink
was unloading cabbages from his cart
backed into the kerb outside our local
greengrocer’s when a six-ton truck went
haywire. It knocked down a telegraph-
pole, sheered miraculously past the plate-
glass windows of the adjoining chemisl’s-
shop, missed by inches the nose of the
Chinaman’s horse and capsized a few
yards farther on. Half the town turned
out in the excitement—even the horse
stretched its neck like a nervous fowl to
see what was happening—but old John
just went on unloading cabbages.
❖ ❖ <*
“Uramao”: During the Kaiser’s war
the mayor of a French town where two
Australians were taking their leave
organised a great sporting-drive in their
honor. Setting out with the
cavalcade across the fair
fields of France, the two
Australians, not knowing
enough of the language to
realise what they were hunt-
ing, were led by a com-
motion and farining-out to
presume a wolf, bear or
boar. Immersed in this
speculation, one of the
Diggers absentmindedly
picked up a stone and
bowled over an anaemic-
looking rabbit that had
emerged from the heath.
Mayor and crowd milled
round the Australians and
tried to impress them with
the enormity of their offence.
That rabbit had been hunted
annually for donkey’s years,
and was a national insti-
tution. What the French
said to their own countryman who intro-
duced myxomatosis to his estate (B.
5/8/’53) I can only imagine.
(Jt
“Cauboy”: The legal definition of
obscene libel is “anything written by a
person who publishes any indecent matter
tending to the destruction of the morals
of society and to deprave or corrupt'those
whose minds are open to moral influ-
ences.” The police who were ordered to
inspect “The Square Ring,” the boxing
drama with an all-male cast at Melbourne
Princess, reported that they could see
nothing indecent in the production; they
had heard far worse language at a
football-match. The sequel should
make the moral reformers change their
tactics. The piece had been a flop,
although neither badly written nor badly
acted. There were hardly a hundred in
the theatre when I saw it. After the
complaint about the language it enjoyed
full houses, mainly of women—and the
management had arranged to take it off
and put on something different!
“Fino”: I heard on the midday news
that the Italian Chamber of Deputies had
passed a vote of confidence in Dr. Pella's
weak old Government —or that’s what it
sounded like to me. Someone at the
radio-station must have got the same
impression, as when the item was repeated
in the evening, it had changed to “Dr.
Pella’s one-week-old Government” —with
a decided emphasis on the “one.”
“Macquarie”: It is house-painting
season in Sydney’s suburbs, and the
methods employed by home-painters
range from fascinating balancing-acts on
top of too-short stepladders to ingenious
devices for counteracting the results of
an unsteady hand. Among these last is
the ruse of placing a protecting perimeter
of cellulose-tape around the glass in each
window-sash. A prospective painter my-
self, I waver. Which would be easier to
clean off, a little wayward wet paint or
6ft. of dry tape on each sash? However,
the chap who spread newspapers over his
patio had my endorsement—until his
major blunder became evident. Over-
head he was blissfully painting the ceil-
ing ; sprawled on the protecting news-
papers beneath were three kids—reading
the comic-strips. Perhaps the painter
thought it easier to clean paint-splashes
off kids than off floor-tiles. How little
some fathers know their own children!
“Gar”: The awkwardness “Sam Jnr.”
finds in “Kinseyism” as a noun, (B.
2/9/’53) is not noticeable when the doc-
tor’s name becomes a verb. “To kinsey”
has Anglo-Saxon succinctness, and, used
broadly, might cover the unpublished
investigations of other research-workers
who are charged vaguely with “offensive
behavior.” In this sense the word
appeared in a Bulletin verse, “Speak to
Strangers” (B. 26/12/’5l), the last two
lines of which run:
I’d not pick your purse or kinsey at the
keyhole
But merely borrow a match to see your
face.
Possibly Kinsey’s name will pass into
the language like Quisling’s and de
Sade’s.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Slats”: All the gang were in high
spirits, with the prospects of the week-
end break —all excepting Sully. Asked
why he looked doleful, he said, “Only
two more days and I’ll be back at work! ”
Came Monday, with the boys suffering
from Mondayitis. Sully was cheerful,
almost gay. His reason? “Only five
more days and I’ll be havin’ me the
weekend off!”
ONIONS EVER AFTER
A scent of onions on the breath
Keeps at arm’s-length even death.
The Greens of Rockdale, I’ve been read-
ing
Disclosed upon their diamond-wedding.
A practising professor of
Love of onions, love of love.
This Mr. Green of whom I speak
Eats two pounds of them a week.
A little onion in the stew, ' '
I know, can keep a husband true
When going out at night alone —
For who can sin by telephone? . . .
Bui let’s not take the easy road,
Singing an empty odor-ode:
We all should be, I must insist.
Compulsorily onionist.
When every happy couple files
With onions peeling down the aisles.
This well, may be, throughout the years.
The only source of all their tears: —
At least. I’ve noticed of such unions
Onions alone, or lack of onions,
Have wasted wives away, or harried
Husbands’ souls, or —being married.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“An Chuidh”: What’s this “Ek Dum”
is telling us, that “God Save the King”
cannot be played by a pipe-band! It’s
not often played because of certain
sharps that —well —not every piper can
get. Yet it is playable ; indeed, it was
played at last Edinburgh Festival by a
Scottish regimental band. But it takes
seven generations to make a piper, and
where can the 42nd (B. 26/8/’53) get
seven generations? It’s four short, but
after reading its history I think it may
one day produce pipers.
♦> *■ ❖
“Loulalo”: Papers hot from the Press
(B. 19/8/’53)? Holidaying in the Dande-
nongs (Vic.), I strolled down to the news-
agency to buy a before-breakfast paper.
For,a moment I thought I was in a
Chinese laundry. The air was thick with
steam and a young woman was ironing
what seemed to be tablecloths on a
revolving table-top ironer. Several small
boys were clamoring round a worried-
looking little man who was handing out
bundles of Melbourne dailies and be-
seeching them to be patient. The carrier
had left the papers on the side of the road
and a shower of rain reached them before
the newsagent, His wife was laundering
the news-sheets so that the boys could
make their deliveries.
*> ♦♦♦
“Muskeen”; If Rabbie Burns was a
Campbell (B. 2/9/’53) he was a High-
lander: which, of course, he was not.
He was bom in Ayr, and was just as much
a Sassenach as a Hay, for example!.
There is a family of Burns, who are a
sept of the Campbells. They originated
from Walter Campbell, of Bumhouse,
who fled to Kincardineshire during the
civil wars of the seventeenth century,
and changed his name to Burns. Inci-
dentally, the Maclsaacs are a very old
sept of the Clan Campbell. Originally
they were a sept of the Macdonalds, of
Clanranald, and one of them migrated
to the territory of the Campbells of Craig-
nish in the early part of the sixteenth
century.
“Doric”: She had just come back
from a trip around the Pacific Islands
and I expected a bit of raving about
tropical lagoons and moonlit palm-trees.
“And what impressed you most in
Noumea?” I inquired. “Well, it’s an
interesting town,” she replied. “But
what intrigued me there were those natty
neck-to-knee men’s public conveniences!”
* * *
“Cauboy”: A celebrated English actor
told a Melbourne audience that diet was
most necessary to preserve an artist’s in-
spiration. He himself ate nothing before
a performance because he found a full
stomach had the same effect on an actor
as on an Olympic runner; he ate very
sparingly afterwards because fasting
sharpened the perceptions. This can't
be a universal law. Haydn, who weighed
about 20 stone, used to go into London
cafds, order dishes for four people and
scoff the lot. Yet he wrote an almost
incredible amount of inspired music.
♦>
“Matey”: The efficiency expert sent to
report on pur works spent a week or so
snooping around with cameras, time-
sheets and the rest of his paraphernalia.
After a while I plucked up my courage
and asked “Do you think there’s much
dead wood in the shop?” He looked at
me coldly. “Dead wood?” he said.
“Man, there’s a petrified forest!”
❖ *♦ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: Laid low by air-sick-
ness, and lower by finding I was the only
woman in Katherine when the plane
taking me north landed there in 1942 be-
cause of air-raids on Darwin, I was
taken to the officers’ lines. An officer
offered me his stretcher, and, as a great
concession, his sheets. When I said I
was afraid to sleep there by myself, they
said the best they could do was give me a
dog. They were assembling the
übiquitous piece of hessian on four poles
for me especially when a doctor spying-
out land for future hospitals bore me
over the river to the civilian hospital, now
evacuated. Also Cholly Knickerbocker,
the American commentator. Mr. K.
recorded later that he slept at the Flying
Doctor’s hospital with an Army Sister,
adding as an afterthought that I was at
the other end of the building. He may
have slept; I didn’t. Until 3 a.m. orderlies
played cards outside my sleepout so that
they could warn a home-coming Joe not
to come through my domain. And even
for hospital equipment the bed was high
and hard. I dismounted to investigate —
it was divided horizontally in frame and
mattress, a bed from the labor-ward, de-
signed for anything but inducing sleep!
* ❖ ❖
“Kelvin”: When Jones threw down
his pen and made a swipe at Wilson I
had to stop what looked like being an
“Think I’ll last the night. Doctor?”
enjoyable brawl. But bare fisticuffs be-
tween two youngsters in the 65-70 age-
group of civil servants on my staff might
lead to please-explains, with investiga-
tions into the casus belli, the 16-year-
old typist. Miss Psmifh, who, like the
warring sexagenarians, is an abandoned
square-dance addict and a patron of the
same dance palais. I now break off to
intercede further, in the hope that when
the parties leave my charge, in about an
hour and a half, honor may be satisfied
without bloodshed.
# A? ,
“Lord Luvus”: One of the children
playing on the grass in a pleasant beer-
garden at the back of a hotel ran up to
her mother at the tables and asked if she
could have a drink, too. “You can’t
drink in here,” the mother said. “Can’t
we have a sarsaparilla?” the child in-
sisted. “No,” the parent said. “You
can’t drink in a pub. It’s a very bad
thing.”
♦♦♦ *■ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Many pedestrians simply
ask for abuse from traffic-policemen (B.
2 1 9/’53). People seem to forget or ignore
the fact that the traffic depends entirely
upon the policeman s directions, and
stepping from the footway against his
signals obstructs both traffic and cop. As
for the average policeman’s proverbial
blindness to the faults of pretty women,
I watched a 6ft. hunk of handsome
humanity casually jay across Sydney’s
worst intersection and actually win a
promising smile from the traffic-cop on
duty. She was one of the latest batch of
Sydney’s policewomen, and she wasn’t
a bad looker herself.
♦> ❖ ❖
“F.S.”: A Canadian optometrist has
made the amazing “discovery” that if
Leonardo da Vinci had worn glasses
Mona Lisa would not have had that
famous smile, because Leonardo was
obviously myopic. Of all the silly state-
ments made about the lady’s smirk, from
Walter Pater’s onwards, this is about the
silliest. If Leonardo had, in fact, been
shortsighted that would have made no
difference to Mona’s facial expression
in the picture. If he saw his subject
so-and-so in Nature he would see it
in exactly the same way when he trans-
lated what he saw on to canvas. Da
Vinci’s biographer, Vasari, recorded that
the painter engaged musicians and jesters
to entertain his sitters, so La Gioconda
was probably smiling at some medieval
wisecrack with a slightly naughty flavor
—she was the wife of a wealthy merchant
and apparently a perfectly normal woman.
Other commentators have called her ex-
pression “sinister and repulsive,” “evil”
and “enigmatic”; Vasari said it was
“divine and rather pleasant,” and one
modern critic has called her “that fat,
leering, pig-eyed bourgeoise.” So what
have you?
* <*
“Pawang”: A Moscow news-item
reported wholesale malnutrition amongst
Australian children. I wonder where the
investigators got their information. It
couldn’t have been in Collingwood or
Redfern. I think they must have been
nosing around Pott’s Point or Toorak.
A recent nutritional survey revealed many
cases of malnutrition amongst the children
of wealthy parents, and put it down to
the youngsters spending their lunch-
money on sweets and pastry and getting
home with no appetite for dinner.
* * *
“Fino”: Why Sydney’s transport
doesn’t pay? Recent notice in lost-and-
found column: “Found, 412 Bus, Bag
and Purse.”
<♦ ❖
“Pandanus”: Auntie, much given to
weighing herself, possibly to prove to
herself that her tonnage was no more
than that of her slimmer sister, reached
home one night and was checking up
her change. We heard her wail of dis-
may : “No wonder I weighed so much. I
must’ve put a two-shilling-piece in the
slot.”
* ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: Since tenderness goes by favor,
our witty butcher generally gets his laugh.
In the crowded shop a pathetic-looking
little woman asked very quietly for six-
penn’orth of dog’s meat. A bit of
dog’s meat for Mrs. B roared Mr.
Chops to a henchman at the back of the
shop, “and brush the sawdust off—it gets
in Dad’s teeth.” Perhaps because tender-
ness was no object here, Mrs. B
could afford to seem not amused.
* *
CONTRETEMPS
The thirty heroes on the muddy ground
Are battling mightily, while all around
The noisy backers, travelled from afar.
Crowd the high stands to watch the
mimic war.
But look, alas, a check ! a prime disaster!
One has the ball, another, running faster.
Tackles the holder rudely round his
flanks .
And rips the scanty shorts from off his
shanks I
The gladiators haste, in serried ranks
Close up about the poor disbreeched
player
To whom the rude assault seems most
unfair. .
They curse the day with maledictions loud,
For there are many ladies in the crowd ;
Reporters, perched on high to view the
sport.
See more than they can venture to report.
Pity, I beg, that shivering three-quarter.
For there amid the throng sits —no re-
porter —
But, blushing and distressed, his lady
love :
With downcast eyes, as coy as any dove,
She can’t acknowledge, even by a glance.
The preview given by the impish chance,
Nor be so bold as to anticipate
The privileges of the married state.
N . z< Arnold Wall.
AMBITION ACHIEVED
Fame can’t be measured like a block
Of land, a cord of wood, a sock
It’s too much an abstraction.
It’s difficult to comprehend
At times exactly what’s Us trend,
For so much always must depend
On critical reaction.
Sinners and saints together may
Bear on their brows its laurel.
That saints are fewer than sinners gay
You’ll take as being a “moral.”
Some hard-faced jockey who may wield
A whip so that he beats the field
May land in Fame’s pavilion,
Whereas a scientist could be
Almost unknown, despite that he
Had made some great discovery
To save lives by the million.
Who bumped off' half a dozen dames
In manner grim and gory
Is almost sure to find his name’s
Immortalised in story.
But it is in the arts, you’ll find,
Where to woo fame they’re much in-
clined ;
And fierce the competition.
And of the arts there’s surely none
More eager than the Thespian one.
Its devotees leave naught undone
To further their ambition.
A case in point I’d introduce :
To wit, Miss Gloria Mundi’s:
Her photograph they reproduce —
Taken, of course, in undies.
She has appeared in plays, it’s true;
No critic, though, proclaimed her new
And better Ellen Terry.
She is, in fact, an awful ham!
She can’t act better than a clam.
With voice she puts on lots of “jam.”
Oh, she is painful, very.
Yet Fame she has achieved. You see,
Invariably she chooses
A product of sublimity :
Skudd’s Pure Skin-Food she uses.
n.s.w. •
S.W.K.


df
Sure Starts-
Hxihc
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
HUB
PERSONAL ITEMS
An accountant to a firm dealing in
essential oils before he became the
energetic boss of Sydney’s Museum of
Applied Arts and Sciences, Arthur Pen-
fold decided he couldn’t account for his
job properly without expert knowledge
of the commodity. So he studied and
delved, and now ranks as one of Aus-
tralia’s foremost authorities on oils. His
name heads a chapter in the fourth
volume of a series produced in 1951 by
Dr. Guenther, vice-president of America’s
largest oil-firm, and Penfold has penned
over 100 papers on essential oils. All
of which could have weighed in his being
selected the other day for an international
honor—the Fritzsche Award of 1000
dollars and a gold-medal, presented by
the American Chemical Society.
Herewith (as seen by Such), two-war
Digger Jack Kelly, who has just com-
pleted for the Commonwealth Govern-
ment a five-year survey of the cattle-
industry in the north. Selection for the
job stemmed from a knowledge of primary
production gathered from Cape York to
Kangaroo Island and from Broome to
Brisbane, As a War I Digger-settler, he
tasted the bitterness of failure of an ill-
ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
conceived settlement scheme in the
Murrumbidgee irrigation-area; from his
experience, he played a helpful quasi-
judicial role in the rehabilitation of those
who survived failure. In the grim water-
shortage of 1938, Kelly was one of the
main shovers behind the launching of
the movement for diverting the Snowy-
now grown into the present Snowy River
Scheme. He left a staff-captain’s appoint-
ment to join the Commonwealth service
in 1945, his first job therein being to
help launch War II Digger-settlement
throughout Australia. Many new
soldier-settlers owe a deal of their
success to Kelly’s sound judgment and
knowledge of the land.
“Fitz”: Colin Roderick, whose attribution of
the authorship of Ralph Rashleigh to James
Tucker caused headlines last year and resulted in
a spirited controversy, hap come again this month
with Australian Round-Up, a comprehensive his-
torical collection of Australian short stories.
The third edition of the Roderick-edited Ralph
Rashleigh will also be in the bookshops this
month, and he has ready for the press his own
edition of Tucker’s first play, Jemmy Green in
Australia, with an account of our early amateur
theatre, convict and otherwise. Roderick, 42,
is a Queenslander and an M.A. of Queensland
University in English and Modern Languages.
In the past 20 years he has read as many
Australian books as any man, has written a
few himself and compiled several anthologies.
He’s now working on three books. On two of
them he has been working for 10 years. These
are A Dictionary of Australian Phrase and
Fable and Cavalcade of Australia, the last-
named being a year-by-year collection of con-
temporary events as they appeared to the
average man. The third book is An Australian
Dictionary of Dates. He welcomes suggestions
for all of the three. Now education officer
with Angus and Robertson—he collected a
Master of Education degree at Melbourne Uni-
versity in his spare-time—Roderick is doing a
useful job in the Australian educational and
technical field. A keen sportsman in his younger
days, he was a lifesaver and long-distance
swimmer, but a splintered wrist and a foot-
baller’s knee put him out of active sport. He
now recreates growing native plants at his
weekend retreat at Faulconbridge, in the Blue
Mountains.
Nominated as head of the Box Hill
High School, Melbourne, to which he’ll
go from the vice-principalship of Mel-
bourne High, W. M. Woodfull, He’s
had something to do with cricket in his
day.
“Bosun’s Mate”; I, too, have vivid
memories of Commander Arthur Henry
Spurgeon, the “Black Wolf” of Bulletin
mention. Joined the Australia in the
Med., ordinary-seaman second-class, first
ship. Came walking up the long gang-
way from the felucca, and felt something
boring into my spine. Looked up, and
there he was. On the quarter-deck, in
isolated splendor, feet braced apart, body
bent slightly forward, hands clasped in
front of him, telescope under the left
arm, staring gimlet-eyed at me — walking !
I flew the rest of the way, without a
word of admonition spoken. Power of
command. Dusty Rhodes remembers
him, too. One hot morning Dusty, after
a cautionary look around, pulled out the
makings and enjoyed his unofficial stand-
easy cloistered outboard of the pinnace.
Next morning a bewildered Dusty was up
before the Wolf for skulking. “But I
wasn’t, sir,” protested Dusty, sure of him-
self, “No?” asked the Wolf, leaning for-
ward, telescope under arm. “Then who’s
this?” And he whipped out a beautifully
clear photo of Dusty enjoying his illicit
leisure. We always knew the Wolf was a
camera fiend, but after that we made sure
we weren’t his subjects.
Dutch stud-owner J. N. Wassenaar, of
Jelsum, in the Netherlands Province of
Friesland, will judge Frisian cattle at the
next Melbourne Show, the first time a
judge from the Netherlands has officiated
at an Australian cattle-show. Owner of
two farms in Friesland where 114 high-
class pedigree cattle are kept, Wassenaar
has been chairman of the Friesian
Pedigree Cattle Book Association since
1944, Eight of his bulls have been
awarded the high-distinction mark of
“preference” after progeny-testing.
Given the editorial helm of Adelaide’s
new “Sunday Advertiser” —due for
launching next month —H. Plumridge is
a shortish journalist with longish travelling
on the Inky Way and a trick of putting
his head on one side and fixing you
with a piercing stare that’s some-
thing of a cross between a condor and
an eagle. With the “Advertiser” for the
past 22 years, before that chief sub. of
the Adelaide “Register,” he was an
R.A.A.F. wing-commander by 1943, and
was the following year transferred to
reserve to enable him to war-correspond
for A.A.P, in Burma, Malaya and Indo-
nesia. His dispatches appeared in most
Australian dailies. Further Inky Way-
faring took him to Japan in 1946, political
adviser and Press attache to the Aus-
tralian Mission of the Allied Council.
He was back in Adelaide in 1947, editor
of the “Chronicle.”
A fellow with infinite knowledge of
grasshoppers is F. J. D. Thomas,
A.R.C.S., B.Sc., newly arrived from
England as director of the 1.C.1.A.N.Z.
agricultural research laboratory being
built at Croydon (Vic.). Thomas, co-
discoverer of gammexane, was previously
deputy-director of 1.C.1. Hawthorndale
agricultural research-station in England,
and has chased ’hoppers and bugs in
Scandinavia, France, the West Indies,
Africa.
“Jemac”: Unlike the commander of a
British carrier I knew who joined his vast
new address from a submarine, George
Carmichael Oldham, appointed Captain
of carrier Sydney, is used to big
ships. Throughout the late scrap he
served as Staff Officer Operations in every
cruiser, bar Sydney, in the Australian
squadron, and won his D.S.C. and two
“mentions” while executive-officer of
8-incher Shropshire at Leyte. A dark,
spare man usually seen wearing a grin-
standfast defaulter’s table! —Oldham is
one of the few qualified naval observers
in the R.A.N.: qualified, that is, when the
n.o, was belted off in a pusser’s duck
from the midships catapult of a cruiser.
Now, of course, every Firefly in his new
command carries an observer. For the
past two years captain of Garden Island
dockyard, he did some excellent staff-work
there, not to mention producing those
ecstatic gyrations of small boys—and
dads —when a plane burst into fire or a
sub. burst from the bottom of the grav-
ing-dock on the Navy’s Trafalgar Day
shivoo.
An Enzedder has landed a big berth
in the Navy—Chief staff-officer to the
flag-officer of the Mediterranean Fleet.
Captain R. E. Washbourn joined the
Royal Navy over a quarter of a century
ago, and was gunnery-officer of the
Achilles when the three terriers hounded
the Graf Spec into Montevideo. Deputy-
director of Naval Ordnance in 1950, he
was recently commander of the fast mine-
layer Manxman, one of the fastest war-
ships afloat.
New Lud Mayor Henry Solly, who will
be the Queen’s host in Melbourne, is
deeply conversant with Elizabethan
English, at least as presented by Shak-
speare. When walking to work through
Fitzroy Gardens he used to memorise the
Bard and still interlards his council
speeches with familiar quotations. “Does
not divide the Sunday from the week”
does not apply to Melbourne; nor does
“this sweaty haste that makes the night
joint-laborer with the day” apply to the
way the C.C. has beqn furthering its
various projects. But Solly is going to
alter all that by taking arms “against a
sea of trouble, and by opposing, end
them.” At least, the citizens hope so,
and they have some grounds for hope
in the fact that the new incumbent, son
of a once-well-known Victorian Socialist
and Labor politician, is a man of action.
In his young days an all-round athlete
who collected a heap of trophies, he had
a brilliant career at St. Patrick’s College,
qualified as an architect and then joined
Wunderlich’s; followed in the footsteps
MAYOR IN MELBOURNE
of his father (Carlton’s member for 27
years) by joining the Labor party. He
left it because he wanted to be inde-
pendent. He is manager of Wunderlich’s
in Victoria, with a strong sense of finance
and a thrifty attitude to the council’s
cashbox, and proud of the memory that
he was a consistent contributor to The
Bulletin in the days when he was a
student of politics, art and the drama.
In the transport handicap section of
the London-Christchurch air-race, a
Vickers Viscount airscrew-turbine air-
liner has been entered by British Euro-
pean Airways, and will carry 32 pas-
sengers. One of them will be J. D.
Profumo, Parliamentary secretary to the
Ministry of Civil Aviation. Another
will be Peter Masefield, chief-engineer
of B.E.A. They will act as stewards
and mechanics.
ALISTER MAXWELL McMULLIN,
appointed President of the Senate
Passed on in Perth at 73, Hastings
Carew Reid, former journalist and chief
of the Westralian “Hansard” staff since
1941. He joined “Hansard” as a reporter
40 years ago. Born in England, he had
his journalistic training there, and
worked on papers in Melbourne before
crossing to Perth to join the “West Aus-
tralian.” A man of precise habit,
courteous ways and a quiet manner of
speaking, he was associated with many
activities outside journalism. For 30
years Westralian representative of the
Imperial Board of Trade, he did much to
organise the Empire shopping-weeks in
the years between the World Wars.
Among his collection of secretaryships
was that of the Australian Chamber of
British Manufactures. In the sporting
field he was secretary of the Westralian
Golf Association and a member of the
King’s Plark Bowling Club. He was
awarded 0.8. E. last year.
Into the Silence:
Two big figures in New Zealand’s Rugby
world of a past generation. In Auckland,
Father Paul Francis Kane, parish-priest of
Nelson, to where he was returning after a visit
to Australia. Under the name of “Paul
Markham,” he was a former All Black and
represented N.Z. in many big matches, including
that against N.S.W. in 1921. Before going to
Nelson Father Kane was vice-rector of St.
Patrick’s College, at Silverstream. Another
noted All Black of 1908, 1910, 1913 and 1914,
Arthur (“Rangi”) Wilson, in Wellington. He
served in War I and was a member of the
triumphant N.Z. Army team which won the
Services tournament in Britain. Wilson was
regarded as N.Z.’s greatest forward.
In Perth, at 69, Sam E. Grimwqod, Old
Digger, sharebroker and prominent racing man,
an official of the W.A. Turf Club for 30 years.
In the First World War with the 10th Light
Horse, he was a major when the cease-fire
sounded. On his return from active service
he was stipendiary steward of the W.A.T.C.
till he resigned in 1933.
In Adelaide, Lady Ritchie, wife of the late
Sir George Ritchie and a devoted worker for
charitable and public organisations in her State;
for close on 30 years on the committee of the
Queen Victoria Maternity Hospital, Red Cross
worker in two wars, and a foundation member
of the C.W.A. Her husband entered Parliament
in 1902, served under Sir Richard Butler ana
Tom Playford, had been Chief Secretary and,
in Playford’s absence, twice acting-Premier.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 70, A. C. Kitto,
prominent sportsman and referee. For 22
years he was a member of the N.Z. Rugby
Union Committee and a life-member of the
Wellington Rugby Referees’ Association, also
of the Amateur Athletic Association. Assistant-
manager of the N.Z. Empire Games teams com-
peting at Sydney in 1938, and athletics referee
of the Empire Games in Auckland in 1950.
At Cue (W.A.), at 72, John Benjamin Chesson,
one of the last of the old-time prospectors of
the Murchison, who had lived in the district
since he went there from Mullewa 60 years ago.
For a long time he held an interest in the
Mountain View mine. Several years ago his
sight faded out, but he continued to look after
himself in his house at Day Dawn until the end.


SEVEN AGES
(and sales-tax reductions)


ABORIGINALITIES
“Blackmale”: The impact of white
man’s civilisation is beginning to have its
effect on the abo.’s attitude to the
Kadaicha man. We were shearing on
Balcanoona station, near Nepabunna
Mission, in the Northern Flinders Range,
when the overseer, noticing no prepara-
tions for work by the native stockboys,
questioned them in their huts. There were
mutterings of “kadaicha” and “emu
boots.” They had seen tracks. Asked
what they were going to do about it, they
said “Wait till night. Put money on
water-tanks.” This evidently worked, for
next morning they were saddling-up
ready for the big muster.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It was the first time
we’d flown over Riverina, and we got a
big kick out of picking places we knew
from 8000 ft. up. When Narrandera was
sliding past way down on our left Mat
remarked, “Well, some o’ them Yanco
’skeeters will want balloons if they’re
goin’ t’ have a pick at a man up here.”
The air-hostess happened to be passing
and overheard, “Do you know Yanco?”
she asked, giving Mat a big smile. “A
bit,” he conceded. She leaned an elbow
casually on the seat in front and began
to tell Mat how she was born in
Eurolie, went to Narrandera high school
and all the rest of it. Mat was pinned.
He couldn’t change his compartment or
make for the bar. The girl caught the look
on my face a couple of times and seemed
to think I was jeering at her. Presently,
Mat having got quieter and quieter, she
went about her business. After we
landed at Mildura I said, “Well, what’s
it like with a girl talking at you eight
thousand feet up and nowhere to go?”
But he’d already recovered. “Only thing
stuck t’ me,” he confessed, “was that if
I’d opened the door and walked out I’d
have been a blanky sight worse off than
if I stopped there.”
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: In the Torres Straits
islands the mating season for the giant
turtles will shortly commence, and the
capture of the first female turtle will be
duly celebrated with age-old ritual. The
captured shellback will be made the
centre of a sort of maypole-dance with
a chanted prayer that, in return for the
sparing of her life, she will use her
reptilian charms to lure others of her
kind within range of the Binghi spears
during the rest of the year. She is then
released on an outgoing tide after she has
been decked with garlands. As a result of
Nature’s overproduction there is never
a scarcity of turtle, hence Binghi’s belief
in the efficacy of the ritual-dance is
unshaken.
* * * *
“Tompion”: It is doubtful if the
brassiere loaded with gibbers is as effec-
tive a woman’s weapon (B. 26/8/’53) as
a stocking with a round stone in the toe
of it. Potency here is due to the fact that
you can’t ward off a blow from it, for it
“They wont hurt you—tinned rabbit's their meat."
bends around your arm and the rock in
the end clouts you. I once read a diary
kept by a naval-officer of Nelson’s day;
it testified to the efficacy of this weapon
wielded by enraged women when the
naval-officer and party were trying
to impress seamen from an East India-
man who had just been paid off. In
N.Q. I witnessed a dispute between rival
factions of women, all of whom had
pulled off a stocking and dropped a rock
inside it. It was all over in a few
moments, with the contestants either
stunned or knocked silly.
* * * sfa
“Lemuel G.”: It could have been
Shingle Hut in the days when Steele
Rudd’s Da4 was just beginning to get on
his feet —a low-walled, tin-roofed, slab-
built house, covered with creeper, and
with a few additions trailing out behind.
Actually, it was a dairyfarm in New Eng-
land (N.S.W.), On a droving trip I’d run
out of salt, and called in to see if I could
buy somq. The family I could see at
dinner on the back veranda —Mum, Dad
and a batch of hefty sons and daughters ;
a 17-year-old damsel, barefoot and
giggling, came when I knocked. Though
dusty, whiskered and in tatters, I raised
"If this doesn't work try chloroform."
the cady courteously and made my
inquiry, during which she stared bulge-
eyed, bereft of speech, plaiting her bare
toes frantically. She then made an
explosive sound, rushed out to the diners
and said “It’s a bloke wants some coarse
salt—’ll we give ’im some?” Shortly,
still giggling, and now squeaking for good
measure, she returned and shoved a parcel
at me, but without speech. I thanked her,
and when I offered payment her toes be-
came enmeshed and she managed a stam-
mered “Thass awri’,” followed by a fit
of giggling. The gate hadn’t clicked
behind me ten seconds before I heard
shrieks from the veranda, and X just
caught a last glimpse of her as she was
doing some hat-raising mimicry.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Fossil remains, and their
value (B. 26/8/’53), are among those
scientific aspects least appreciated by the
layman. In ordinary terms, fossils are
the durable parts of animals or plants
which have resisted complete decay by
being covered over with deposits of
materials. When this covering layer was,
or became, a tenacious mud, the remains
were preserved with practically no
change; but very often moisture con-
taining carbonate of lime or silica per-
colated through the stratum. This pene-
trated the fossils and filled their pores
with mineral, but it had another effect,
too. It caused them to undergo a
molecular change, in which the original
composition of the shell became com-
pletely altered—it became petrified. But
this petrifaction didn’t necessarily destroy
the structure of the fossil. For instance,
a piece of wood, which originally con-
sisted of carbon, hydrogen and nitrogen,
may be entirely replaced by flint or silica ;
yet the original structure may be perfectly
preserved. And even the cells of the
tissues are so plainly visible under a
microscope that a scientist can say defi-
nitely that what is for all practical pur-
poses a piece of stone was once a living
thing,
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: My brother introduced
tobacco to the paternal garden during
the tough early-’thirties. He was not
only going to grow enough ’bacca to
supply the whole family, but also pioneer
the industry in our district. If any seed
is finer than tobacco-seed I’ve never seen
it. Scattered broadcast, the dust-like stuff
blew everywhere, duly germinated,
pushed its way up past all manner of
vegetables, thrived, and finally produced
promising large leaves. The triumphant
pioneer gathered his crop, cured it with
an evil-looking blend of honey and several
mystic ingredients, and pressed the result
in a home-made wooden press. When the
prescribed mellowing period had passed
he took out a layer of the sticky mess,
scraped away the blue-mouldy portions,
made the balance into fine-cut by the use
of a razor-blade and plenty of patience,
then rolled a lumpy cigarette. Sheer
egotism kept him puffing after the first
two draws, but when his face began to
take on the popular pastel tones we
managed to talk him into surrender. The
rest of the horrible concoction lay in its
primitive press for two or three years
before it was pelted out into the bush;
but, long after the memory had lost its
sorrow to the pioneer, Dad was still curs-
ing it—the stuff was still springing up
weed-like four years later.
* * * *
“Kros”: “Brick E.’s” dead snail glued
to the top of a tunnel 115 ft. inside (B.
2/9/’53) surely wouldn’t have taken
months to reach the spot. Snails can
cover distances of up to 50ft., perhaps
more, a day, so it should have got there
in a week at the most. Edward Step,
the British naturalist, tells of how he
threw away, over a wall and roadway,
some 30ft., a snail which had been investi-
gating an arum-lily. Early next morning
it was back at the lily (he’d specially
marked the snail’s shell); and the same
casting-away and return happened several
times. Apropos, “Brick E.’s” snail may
have been only hibernating—in hiberna-
tion the snail’s breathing almost stops.
The winter-sleep of snails is long and
deep. There is on record one particularly
heavy sleeper which woke-up several
years later in a showcase, labelled and
displayed, at the British Museum.
* * * *
“F.P.N.”: It is possible that a man
when lost in the bush may tend to veer
left or right, and thus eventually travel
in a circle because of his having one arm
or leg better developed than the other
(B. 26/8/’53); but the theory wouldn’t
have impressed one Buys-Ballot. Accord-
ing to the geographical text-books which
I once had to swot, he enunciated
the theory that, owing to the motion of
the earth on its axis, a man lost in the
Northern Hemisphere would wander to
his right, if in the Southern Hemisphere
he would circle to his left.
* * * ' *
“Lew C,”: When I got back to the
humpy I found him waiting for me with a
note from the boss to say he was “out
for experience.” The first night we’d
just turned-in when he let out a yell and
reckoned we should go and investigate;
it was the ration sheep feeding past the
hut on their way to water. Half an hour
later the old hack came along thumping
and clanking in his hobbles, and after
that the only way I could get Joe to sleep
was to shut and bar the door. The next
night the cat grabbed a rabbit at the
pumpkin-vine, and Joe’s squeal went
higher than the rabbit’s by two octaves.
In the early hours a vixen up in the hills
let out a long, shuddering, sobbing
scream, and Joe set a world record for
a vertical ascent from the supine posi-
tion, coming down with the news that a
woman was undoubtedly being murdered.
If the boss hadn’t heeded my ultimatum
next day and delivered me from Joe
there’d have been heard another long
shuddering scream, and it wouldn’t have
been a woman being murdered, either.
* * * sK
“Edx”: “5 G.R.’s” evaluation of the
horse camel in Palestine (B. 2/9/’53)
seems to be reversed in Australia.
Camels were brought to the fore in this
country when explorers found that horses
couldn’t stand up to the hard going.
John Forrest’s overland trip of 1874 is
remarkable mainly because he used
horses. The expedition suffered and
nearly pranged, but Forrest’s skill and
superb leadership got them through when
a lesser man would haVe failed. A few
years earlier Ernest Giles had tried to
battle across in the opposite direction,
with horses. He didn’t reach the border.
At a second attempt, again with horses,
he penetrated a short distance into a
desert and lost his mate Gibson, whose
name is given that desert. Using camels,
he later got through and back to Adelaide
—a great effort. On the trip out his
camels had a waterless stage of 325 miles
in the Great Victoria Desert and, on
the home leg, one of 230 miles. This
trip showed the camel superior
to the horse as a desert traveller, and
pretty well all succeeding expeditions
used camels.
THE DOUBLE BUGGY
Behind the shed the buggy stands;
The cocksfoot-grass conceals
The framework with its weightless bands,
The spider with her careful hands
Spins wheels within the wheels.
Mildew and rot have taken toll
And time has woven a wreath
Of.tmrrs about the broken pole;
Truculent bulldog-ants patrol
The parched terrain beneath;
And Orpingtons that fly the fence
From where the fowlruns are
Roost nightly on its impotence,
Liking it for a tower from whence
To cry the morning star.
Wheels that have borne them and away
To what familiar places—
Funerals, weddings, work and play,
To market-town on market-day,
Church, sports, and picnic races—
Say, where are those who used to ride
Behind the well-matched pair
(The pride of half the countryside)?
Now strangers in their home abide
And sons are—otherwhere.
Ripe apples in the orchard glow
Crimson and green and rust,
The wheat springs greenly, row on row,
The tractor on the flat below
Moves in a mist of dust.
Their work remains, their worth to prove.
For most of it was good:
They pioneered in faith and love
Helping ’ towards the building of
Their country’s nationhood.
I stoop to lift the sliprail bars
And wohder in my heart,
Putting in place the heavy spars,
If any of these motor-cars
Has played a goodlier part.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


Countless Thousands Agree
trade mark
relieves all
RHEUMATIC
PAINS
eJ«r
atISM
hE oM
t|CA
SCIA
ori t,s
bag®
IUM
;
eCK'A
. eff
i*bH
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
Since Dolcin was perfected
by American scientists five
years ago, thousands of men
and women throughout the
world have found merciful, long-lasting relief
from the pains of arthritis, rheumatism, sciatica,
lumbago, neuritis and gout.
More than a thousand million Dolcin tablets
have already been taken, and an endless stream
of letters of thanks testify that Dolcin has
given prompt relief where all other treatments
failed.
DON’T GIVE UP-YOU CAN EASE PAIN
DOLCIN
FOR ALL RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS
Write for informa-
tive literature
Dolcin (Australia)
Pty. Ltd., Box 1552,
G.P.0., Sydney.
TRUE stories of
deceptions that
shocked the world!
vz.
m
C< T
B
Jr
Former crime reporter Ron
Ingleby reveals the breath-
taking audacity of some of
the arch counterfeiters of
history. Don’t miss each
complete weekly story pre-
sented with the good wishes
of the distributors of Ranch
Tobacco.
:
AfHil
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN
mm
6IX - 7HO
2 HR, 2 MW, 2LF, 2PK, 2 MG, 2WL, 2LT,
2CA, 3CV, 4GY, 6WB, 6MD, 6BY, 7LA
“W.J.W.”: The argument centred on
bull-oaks —what kind of trees they are
and how the name should be spelt. Old
Ted said it was spelt buloke, that it was
a distinct type of tree, and that you could
tell them by the upward turning of their
leaves, as distinct from the turned-
down leaves of the she-oak. The lettered
botanist to whom we appealed gave this
ruling: The bull-oak —correct spelling —
is the male counterpart of the she-oak.
This tree is uni-sexual and requires both
male and female members. They’re dis-
tinguishable by one fact —the female tree
bears cones. Strip the cones off and you
couldn’t tell them apart.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Loulalo”: When we were kids we
often tried confining live bees in a
stoppered pickle-jar and lowering it into
the water, their buzzing allegedly being
a good fish-lure; but either the coldness
or the depletion of oxygen-supply caused
the bees to become torpid before any fish
answered their call. Now a device has
been patented by the Czech managing-
director of a Welsh firm which manu-
factures glassware and scientific instru-
ments. Called by its originator “the
Buzzing Bee,” it consists of a plastic jar
containing a battery-operated mechanism
which reproduces the buzz of the live
bee. It’s a fish-lure.
* * *
“Chink”: Undoubtedly the giant fig-
tree which flourished until recently in the
main street at Cairns (Q.) (B. 26/8/ ’53)
was a whopper of its kind, though the
claim to‘its being 700 years old is only
a guess; sole information on the point is
that it was already very hefty when
Cairns was surveyed in the 1870’s. It
is doubtful if the giant’s root-system
would have done much damage to road-
ways or drains. To be sure, it sprawled
to some extent (though not so much as
do certain imported trees), but the
only cost it entailed was a trifle of clean-
ing-up each autumn consequent upon its
habit —unusual among Australian trees —
of shedding its leaves. As against that,
its tremendous size and commanding
position made it the one feature which, in
the opinion of tourists at any rate, gave
distinction to Cairns. Those who ordered
it to be slaughtered will find it hard to
gain for Cairns any other attraction of
comparable appeal.
* * * *
“Mingari”: Multiple drafting-gates
(B. 2/9/’53) can be quite simple to
handle, provided you’re not taking off
more than a couple of big lots, which
only requires one gate, and use the others
for odd lots like wethers among ewes,
weaners among grown sheep, and so on.
The man on the gate needs a keen eye,
especially if drafting by earmarks, quick
muscular responses, and a knack of
making his hands and arms carry out
actions decided upon by his brain some
moments earlier while he is determining
“Any chance of tradin' this in as a deposit?”
. , A „
a . £ future movements - ®
fl so about an hour or so to get
he during which
tlmc he “ be liberally cursed by the yard
« an « t who h . a ™ *° , hea y e . •“? mistakes
over fen “ s lnto their rl S ht£ul Pens-
* * «
“P.0.M.C.”: “Sackville” shouldn’t be
too sanguine that his kelpie had survived
his crash with a truck (B. 2/9/’53). Dogs,
like horses, are particularly prone to
radial paralysis which prevents the knit-
ting of broken bones in most cases,
Compound fractures in dogs are virtually
hopeless—apart from the unfavorable
chances of the bone joining, the wound
almost invariably becomes infected,
spreads over a wide area and finally
presents the grim alternatives of amputa-
tion or death, I spent pounds, and weeks
of anxiety, with one of Sydney’s leading
vets trying to save a beloved Scottie whose
shoulder was broken; but in the end
readily acquiesced to his swift extinction
by lethal injection to the heart. “Pain-
less” asphyxiation, of cats and dogs, by
the way, isn’t necessarily painless ; some
resist the gasses for many minutes and
die cruelly.
* * * *
“C.A.L.”: “Five miles of fencing,”
Swamp-oak snorted. “Why, I’ve fenced
bigger horse-paddocks than that.” “You
may have done,” the manager agreed,
“but this country is dead-flat and heavily
timbered with mulga and leopard-wood,
and, what’s more, this fence must hit the
boundary-line right where I want it to.
I’m sick of you chaps that can’t run a
straight line.” “Leave it to me,” Swamp-
oak declared. “You won’t find any doglegs
in my fence.” That night Swamp-oak
lit a huge bonfire he’d set up where the
prdposed fence was to finish, hopped into
his old utility, raced to where the fence
was to commence, and drove three stakes
in line, pointed to the centre of the glow
showing above the mulga. These were
his sight-pegs. Five months later he was
connecting his fence to the boundary, bpt
as the new line emerged from the scrub
half a mile distant, a dog-leg showed.
“What was wrong with your sighting?”
the manager asked him, “You aimed
for the fire, didn’t you, so if your sight-
pegs were lined up properly your fence
shouldn’t have been out.” “I did put
the pegs in properly,” defended Swamp-
oak, “but haven’t you ever heard that
according to Einstein’s theory light can
bend? Me fence musta followed a bent
ray.”
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Kelms”: There are a dozen trees
which for hardness leave jarrah stand-
ing, but nearly all are too small to be
worth milling, with one notable excep-
tion, white-gum. From an axeman’s
point of view white-gum is several times
harder than jarrah, and, in/the type of
country in which it grows, it will outlast
jarrah in the ground. A white-gum
fencing-post has a life of up to 50 years,
and in buildings it may be almost in-
destructible. Moreover, it’s tough, and
it’s a sizeable tree —not to be compared
with jarrah, but would be worth milling
were it not that it is too scattered and
as often as not won’t split. But, in any
case, neither it nor any other timber in
Australia can compete with jarrah, be-
cause jarrah’s main property isn’t its
hardness but the fact that, though it isn’t
completely termite-resistant, it is to a
greater degree than any other timber in
the world except Californian redwood.
There are jarrah-framed houses still
standing after 50 years, in localities where
any other type of timber would have
been eaten to a shell in a year. Its only
weaknesses are that it oxidises nails and
is sometimes suscepltible to dry-rot.
♦ * • *
“Old-timer”: Scooting down to Warra-
gul from Dandenong (Vic.) to see his
girl, young Harrigan sent his motor-bike
over a bridge and into about a foot of
heavy drift-sand on the other side. The
bike slewed sideways and pitched Harri-
gan into the sand. He got up, shook
sand out of his ears, remounted and
pushed on. Four miles out of Warragul
he ran into a head-on rainstorm and,
because he wore a light dustcoat instead
of oilskins, he was drenched in two
minutes. A mile further on the bike
skidded, and when Harrigan remounted
his hands and face were bleeding from
gravel-rash. Just as he hit Warragul the
bike cut out. It was now night. Warragul
is a hilly town, and H.’s girl lived on the
top of the highest hill. Up this hill
Harrigan pushed the bike, and arrived
wet, torn and bleeding. When he knocked
she answered, switched on the veranda-
light and surveyed him. “Heavens,” she
said, “I thought you’d never get here, and
I do want to see the first picture!”
HOLLOW IN THE HILLS
Here is an open space,
A cup left in a lap of hills
That is as secret as a hiding place;
Catching the dew but no wind,
Snaring the sun and a trace
Of shadow from its lonely trees.
A little creek runs here,
To stir the stillness of the soil
And mock the hollow in its hinted fear;
For it is cupped in the hills
That crowd the outer rim and peer
As strangers at forbidden land.
N.S.W.
BERNARD PEACH.


only
qms rjow...
' fat*
i
SUPER DC-6B COMFORT!
On your next trip overseas fly Canadian Pacific across the
Pacific in Giant SUPER DC-6B Airliners. Canadian
Pacific is the only airline operating these most modern
and luxurious aircraft on the Pacific route. Flying time
from Sydney to Vancouver by SUPER DC-6B is only
32 hours.
m
and
FREE
HONOUR
STOPOVER
atHAWAII!
Enjoy a free stopover at the famous Moana Hotel,
Honolulu from early afternoon until the next morning
(18| hours). Here in a magical setting, right on Waikiki
Beach you have a host of pleasures to choose from.
Surfing, native luau feast, grass skirted hulas, lilting
rhythm, moonlight magic to sparkle in your memory.
DEPARTURES FROM SYDNEY EVERY TUESDAY
CcuutdJUm
AIRLINES 9
Consult your Local Travel Agent or'Canadian Pacific Air
Lines Ltd., 247 George St., Sydney, and 59 William St.,
Melbourne; or Union Steam Ship Co. (General Agents).
CANADIAN PACIFIC AIR LINES LIMITED INC. IN CANADA
No. 6 of a Series
Men who make....
Capit
-tkbdfifahlmco
c*
Mr. Arthur Spillane has been cutting “Capstan”
for 30 years. The compressed “cakes” of
“Capstan’s own blend ” are placed into precision
machines, where they are sliced into flakes of
“fine cut” of just the right thickness to give ease
of rolling and smooth draw for cigarettes, or the
coarser cut which gives slow, cool burning to the
confirmed pipe smoker. Watch for further
advertisements in this series which go on briefly
to explain other interesting manufacturing phases
of Capstan Tobacco.
“Blended Better 99
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACCO
m
X985D.8.53
Business Rollery. Etc
A MIDDLE-CLASS BUDGET
The Budget which Sir Arthur
Fadden has introduced for the
current year has already had a
markedly stimulating effect on
the industrial outlook, and in
most respects it is an excellent
Budget, This, of all the Budgets
in recent memory, pays respect
to thrift and enterprise. In no
manner is this better illustrated
than in the abolition of the
differential tax on property in-
come, which has hitherto carried
a loading oi from 4d. to 16d. in
the £ over and above the
personal-exertion rate.
In The Bulletin of 15/7/’53
it was said: “The Treasury can
look with a more kindly eye
on savings and income from
savings when shaping its taxa-
tion policy. The time is surely
long past when there should be
any idea of trying to justify a
higher rate of tax on property
income as compared with earn-
ings from personal exertion.”
The Government has boldly
abolished this relic of past poli-
tical prejudice and superstition.
At a time when thrift was get-
ting groggy on its feet (and
public saving and lending
rapidly diminishing), the aboli-
tion of the property-income
loading puts thrift on an equal
taxation footing with earning,
except for the double-taxation
which still exists on dividends
received from companies.
But this double-taxation is
also on a reduced scale. From
9s. in the £ on incomes over
£5OOO a year the public-co. tax
is reduced to 7s. in the £. This
is now probably the lowest flat-
rate tax on companies in the
English - speaking world.
(Canada’s rate is just over 9s.
in the £, with a 20 p,c. rebate
in the hands of shareholders,
making the net figure about 7s.
3d. In Australia there is no
rebate in the hands of share-
holders.)
A very real concession has
been made to the Australian
investor, even though it may be
said to be long overdue. Its
lateness in arriving is by no
means the fault of the present
Government; it has held effec-
tive office only since 1951, and
in that time it has had to deal
with an inheritance of high
Socialist spending and low per-
capita production left to it by the
previous “Labor” Governments.
In the case of private com-
panies the tax is reduced by Is.
in the £—to 4s. in the £ on the
first £5OOO of taxable income
and 6s, in the £ on the balance.
The 10s. in the £ tax on un-
distributed profits of private
companies (subject to retention
allowances) remains* and will
be one of the few controversial
features of the Budget. The fact
is, however, that the controllers
of a number of private com-
panies have fouled their own
nests so far as the Treasury is
concerned, and have made it
hard for the rest of private-
company shareholders. Some
alteration to the system of tax-
ing private cos. must eventually
come. As it is, a private con-
cern ploughing-back most of its
profits generally pays more tax
per £ of net earnings than does
the public co. This is a definite
hindrance to the development of
new industries that might ulti-
mately challenge and compete
with the old-established concern,
or the monopoly. In a young,
expanding but industrially back-
ward country like Australia the
incidence of taxation on new
enterprise has to be very seri-
ously considered.
The general level of income-
taxation has been reduced, as
indicated, by an average of
12} p.c. There are increased
allowances for dependants,
medical expenses and education,
while the exemption from in-
come tax in the case of aged
persons has been raised from
£254 to £375 for a single person
and from £507 to £750 for a
married couple.
In the case of abnormal in-
come (such as from publication
of a book, sale of art-work,
invention, etc.) the taxable in-
come (including the abnormal
receipt) will be taxed at the rate
appropriate to the normal in-
come, plus one-third of the
abnormal receipt.
Entertainment tax is being
abolished, and the exemption
from estate-duty will be raised
from £2OOO to £5OOO where the
estate passes to the widow,
children or grandchildren, and
from £lOOO to £2500 where the
estate passes to other bene-
ficiaries.
Rates of sales tax now stand-
ing at 50 p.c., 33| p.c. and
20 p.c. will be abolished and
the goods concerned will bear
16| p.c, or 12i p.c, in future.
Matches and some other house-
hold goods are being exempt
from sales tax altogether.
Pensions generally are being
increased, and the permissible
income and property limits are
being raised.
The annual exemption from
payroll tax will rise from £lO4O
to £4160 after October 1; this
will mean that 50,000 employers
out of 90,000 now taxed will no
longer be liable to pay payroll
tax.
Customs and excise on spirits
is being reduced by 21s. a gallon.
Beer excise (which had not risen
so steeply as the tax on spirits)
remains unchanged.
Whilst the 1953-54 Menzies-
Fadden Budget has given tax-
concessions in many directions,
it has very rightly granted most
relief to the investor and to
industry. Since 1939 the pro-
prietary side of industry, as a
body, has borne a great deal
more than its fair share of the
cost of government, social
security and the incidence of in-
flation. Capital-erosion has
been enormous. Investors in
industry and in fixed-interest
securities have had a shocking
deal, especially when the effect
of State-administered price-
control is considered.
The surplus of production
over ordinary consumer-demand
has not been big enough to
represent savings on a scale
large enough to provide our
capital requirements. The in-
vestor class has not had the
funds necessary to fill Govern-
ment loans, and public works
have had to be curtailed.
In The Bulletin of 4/2/’53
it was stated:
It has been said here before that
in Australia there is not enough pro-
duction, not enough efficiency (em-
ployer and employee), not enough
profit, not enough savings, not
enough investment. There are too
many non-producers living on the
producers: a kind of economic canni-
balism. Taxation of industry is too
heavy. The answer, then, is to
tackle these deficiencies as quickly as
possible, in their right order.
Some are matters for State Gov-
ernments. Others are obviously
Federal matters. Industry itself has
much to answer for, employer as
well as employee. But the ultimate
objective must be kept clear; we
are in need of greatly increased pro-
duction, and of that production a
much larger proportion must be en-
couraged to flow into reproductive
channels. Thrift must be given top
priority. If we are to depend on
capitalists for the funds required by
industry and for essential Govern-
ment works, then Capitalism will
require some intelligent dieting and
nursing during the next few years.
And no Socialist Government is
capable of doing that.
The Fadden Budget has given
the first instalment of the
nursing in respect of which in-
dustry, thrift and capital have
been so urgently in need. The
middle class —traditionally a
thrifty, industrious class —is at
last getting some relief.
Total expenditure allowed for
by the Budget during the current
year is £982 million. Revenue,
after allowing cost of taxation
concessions, is estimated to
cover expenditure, with a surplus
of £215,000.
In spite of the overall reduc-
tion in income-tax rates on
individuals, personal taxation is
expected to, bring in £ll million
more (at £398 million) than in
1942-43. Company tax is
expected to bring in £33.4 million
less at £133.6 million.
On the outgo side, chief move-
ments are an estimated drop of
£15.3 million (to £2OO million) in
defence provision, a rise of
£18.5 million (to £lB4 million)
in payments to the National
Welfare Fund, and £6 million
(to £lB9 million) in payments to
the States.
Treasurer Fadden, in intro-
ducing his Budget, said ; “Infla-
tion, by dissipating energies and
resources, was an enemy in the
path of progress. We have
arrested inflation. We must now
press on with the great tasks
of developing our resources,
expanding our industries,
increasing our population, and
building -up our national
standards of life.”
Sharemarket Up
First sharemarket reaction to
the tax-reductions announced by
Treasurer Fadden was a lifting
of buyers’ offers, with sellers
withdrawing to higher ground.
All the leaders moved up (except
breweries—there was no reduc-
tion in beer excise), including
British Tobacco (though there
was no relief in tobacco excise).
Including pre-Budget rises,
B.H.P. has lifted 2s. 6d. (to
455. 9d.) since the end of July,
British Tobacco 2s. (to 38s. 6d.),
Colonial Sugar ss. (to
£44 2s. 6d.), Goldsbrough Mort
Is. 3d. (to 365. 9d.) and Dunlop
Is. 3d. (to 305.). Bank of N. S.
Wales, cum rights, rose 7s. 6d.
(to £4l 12s. 6d.) the day after the
Budget was presented. Bradford
Cotton jumped Is. (to 375.), and
Yarra Falls 6d. (to 445.). A.C.I.
went up 6d. (to 475.).
Ihe taxation relief for public
companies is considerable,
though not before its time. The
cut of 2s. in the £ was as much
as anyone expected, even if there
was disappointment that nothing
was done about the problem of
special depreciation allowances
in view of the drop in the
money-value of past provisions
and the high cost of replacing
plant.
From the investor’s point of
view, assuming that companies’
earnings (before tax) are main-
tained, and that they distribute,
after tax, the same proportion of
their profits as hitherto, then,
allowing for other income-tax
concessions, the investor who
had a taxable income from
dividends of between £lOOO and
£4OOO in 1952-53 should receive
a net income (after tax) of about
a third higher under the new
rates. (That assumes that, say,
a 10 p.c. div. will rise to 12 p.c.,
that the differential rate on pro-
perty income is removed, and
that the general rate drops about
10 p.c.).
F. J. Walker announced results
for the year the day after the
Budget was presented. Follow-
ing a bounteous pastoral season,
a rise in wool prices, and record
exports, turnover exceeded
£7,500,000, and net profit was
£318,565 (compared with
£189,665 for 1951-52). Profit
was struck after providing
income tax at 9s. in the £. Re-
assessed at 7s. in the £, net earn-
ings will rise by more than
another £60,000, and will repre-
sent something like 38 p.c. on
capital. The div. was raised from
10 p.c. to 12% p.c., of which
5 p.c. was tax-free. The 10s.
stock-units have recently risen
to 235. 6d. The fact that an
increased div. was likely to come
from F. J. Walker was men-
tioned here several times earlier
in the year.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide *
Single Copies ... ... ... 2/r
Yearly 22 id
Why more people buy
HOLDEN* UTILITY
than any other
jH
mm
mmm
mm
>
*Registered Trade Mark.
Holden is bought by twice as many utility buyers as any other model.
This is because only in Holden utility do you gain all these advantages
timesaving 21 h.p. performance; exceptional nippiness in traffic;
passenger car riding comfort and roomy cabin for three; generous load
area; modern distinguished appearance; money-saving 30 m.p.g.
economy and trouble-free 6 cylinder square engine dependability as
reported by owners. ,
In addition, when you own Holden you have nationwide service
facilities at your disposal and an assured supply of low-cost, factory-
made parts.
Holden is the only utility to offer you all these advantages because it
is the only utility that’s designed and built for Australia. /
Holden is beyond doubt the best utility value you can buy and it’s
available on convenient hire purchase terms through G.M.A.C.
General Motors’ own finance company.
S¥s
IB
H
STEP /NTO AN.Z BANK-
o
■W
PT
The busy man steps confidently into A.N.Z. Bank.
Time is important to him and he knows
that A.N.Z. Bank is organised to give
efficient service quickly.
A:N-Z
w
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia The Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
Established 1835 Established 1837
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji and in London
AGENTS IN ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD
There are two Air Chief Car
Radios specially designed for
Holden.
a
HOLDEN
Australia's Own Utility
V72
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
With the annual conference
looming, both the Labor-party
executive and the T.U.C. general
council are preening themselves
so as to appear in the best light
before their audiences. The
Labor party’s prospects can be
summed-up in one word; Poor.
There are no signs of a construc-
tive policy for a general election,
or for anything else. How to
combat Bevanism remains the
nagging preoccupation of the
leaders. And they are driven
more and more to defensive
measures of plain crudity. The
ruse to get Mr, Morrison back
on the executive by causing him
to oppose Mr. Greenwood for
the treasurership promises
nothing but an extension of the
cleavages.
T.U.C. Clears the Air
A tough issue faces the trade-
union leaders at their conference.
The issue, simply, is further
nationalisation. Unlike the
theoreticians, the T.U.C. has
always kept its feet pretty firmly
on the ground. Although
ponderous and slow-moving, its
leaders have never left anybody
in doubt as to their true function
—to look after their members.
In common with other practical-
minded authorities, the T.U.C.
has been forced into the realisa-
tion, if not into the admission,
that nationalisation has failed,
and that precipitation of it as a
political expedient would be a
calamity.
The T.U.C. has now published
an interim report in which it
advocates one definite proposal
only—nationalisation of water-
supply undertakings. This
doesn’t give very much away,
since water-supplies are half-
nationalised already, and strong
arguments can be advanced for
the State to take them over com-
pletely. Of other industries, the
report advises caution (“It would
not be true to say that public
opinion is strongly prepared for
the transfer”), and, in any case,
recommends a full inquiry
before a decision is reached.
Full marks are given to banking
and insurance for efficiently con-
ducting their business. Nation-
alisation of the chemical industry
would “present certain diffi-
culties.” Aircraft and shipbuild-
ing are best left alone. The
former is doing well, and
“profits made.... are in the
nature of an agency fee for
managerial fees.”
Naturally, the report abounds
with concessions to the pre-
judices of its readers, but its
theme, “move warily,” is beyond
equivocation. The findings
conflict with current Labor-
party propaganda, and will
certainly provoke delegates into
furious indignation rather than
second-thoughts.
Electric Shock
The self - styled “guerrilla”
strike of the Electrical Trades
Union marks a new technique
in Communist subversion in that
the activity is overt, not under-
ground. Previous strikes have
followed a fairly regular pattern.
Agitators have played upon
comparatively minor grievances,
working-up passions to fever-
heat before drawing the bolt;
and they have demonstrably
excluded any connection be-
tween the strike committee and
the Communist party. But the
British worker, they have found,
knows he is not too badly off
and tends to become restive
under strike-pay. He gets on
his wife’s nerves and tends to
drift back, more disgruntled than
ever.
It may be that the Kremlin
wanted evidence of some activity
in Great Britain or merely that
the E.T.U. thought a trial of
strength would be good for
morale. The strike was astutely
exploited, causing little drain on
union funds, and could have
been avoided had the employers
been farsighted enough to
realise that their peremptoriness
was playing into the Com-
munists’ hands. The union pur-
posely delayed reference of the
dispute (wage-claims) to arbitra-
tion until tempers rose. Only
those whose absence would
embarrass the employer were
called out.
The result was a strike involv-
ing fewer than 2000 skilled
workers at —what a list!—two
atomic-research establishments,
three oil-refineries, two motor-
works, one steelworks and two
tinplate-works.
No Tricks with Dick
One of posterity’s major
sorrows is the freak of circum-
stance that sent Sheridan to
Harrow instead of to the local
grammar school. If he had
drifted through penury into the
self-contained purlieus of the
stage and had considered himself
to be of the theatre and not
above it, what a legacy he might
have bequeathed to the drama!
The vagabondage of Drury,
Lane ill became a gentleman,
except as a treasure-chest to be
marauded for high living. So
the greatest comedist of the
English theatre sacrificed his
talents to become a brilliant but
second-rate politician and a
sorry convivialist. Which is only
to say that no classical revival
wears so well as “The School
for Scandal.”
A new approach to this play,
which opens the Donald Wolfit
season of classics at the King’s
Theatre, Hammersmith, is
immensely rewarding. Instead
of the stylised frippery, with
artificial diction and balletic
posturings, that has become a
hard-and-fast tradition with
“knee-breeches” comedy, Baliol
Holloway’s production treats the
main characters as if they were
human beings and not discards
from Moliere. For puppets
from the opera bouffe he sub-
stitutes men and women of flesh
and blood—English blood.
Sir Peter Teazle is not so
much a doddering cuckold as a
sad little man of character and
intelligence who knows he has
made a fool of himself. Maria
might be any nice, innocent girl
with a lisp. Lady Teazle, for all
her tantrums and waywardness,
is at heart a genuine wife. Sir
Oliver Surface is a rough-cast
nabob and knows it. This
realistic interpretation impedes
the exploratory first act, but con-
siderably enhances the dramatic
value of the closing scenes. The
evergreen affair of the screen
and the closet is also quite
straightforward, with no sly
peepings and arch “business.”
A refreshing change, and most
effective.
If, perhaps, not everything
about the production is first-class
the supporting company is
stronger than is usual with Mr.
Wolfit. The necessary frugality
over scenery has resulted in some
dowdy sets. Charles Surface is
extremely hard-headed for a gay
young rip. He might well be an
extrovert Rugger captain “hav-
ing one” with the lads; and his
gesture over Sir Oliver’s portrait
springs from the head, not from
the heart. The hypocritical
Joseph Surface suffers most from
the realism, and is hard put to
find an edge to his character
before the last act. Nor is the
school of prattlers quite what it
was at Bath in 1777. Lady
Sneerwell is a sweet, placid old
lady with a weakness for gossip,
certainly not a headstrong pro-
moter of scandal. Her scholars
have more enthusiasm than style.
No actor on the London stage
has been more assiduously
offered —and rejected —advice
than Donald Wolfit. There are
signs that he is bowing to his
critics. Gone are the old-
fashioned mouthings (“ham,”
perhaps, is a trifle cruel) and the
invisible spotlight. The others
have their moments, too. As
Sir Peterl he shows himself to be
a comedian of genius, with a
timing and a definition that the
old stars of the music-hall could
not surpass.
Courts: Martial and Exiled
A gallant major, gentleman to
the fingernails and a beloved
leader of men, pinches £125 from
the battery safe because the
Army, after having chivvied him
ground the world substantially
at his own expense, refuses to
be hurried into handing over his
back pay. He sends £lOO to his
frantic, suicidal wife and puts
the other £25 on a mount which
he himself is to ride in the regi-
mental steeplechase. Self-willed
as well as headstrong, he is next
seen conducting his own defence
at a court-martial instigated by
a perfect so-and-so of a com-
manding officer whose malignant
promptitude forestalled replace-
ment of the money.
By assiduous craftmanship,
humor and documentary authen-
ticity Dorothy and Campbell
Christie have managed to evolve
a compelling and provocative
drama. “Carrington, V.C.”
(Westminster Theatre), burkes no
obstacles in unfolding a rather
pathetic tale of a quixotic man
of spirit who is sorely taxed
both on and off duty. Alec
dunes gives him charm,
integrity and sincerity and easily
wins the compassion of the
audience. Nor are his brother
officers on the tribunal entirely
unmoved; but justice, though
partial and rough by civilian
standards, must be done.
Paradoxically, the authors’
attempts to broaden the appeal
by introducing an adoring
W.R.A.C. captain and a
neurotic vixen of a wife are less
convincing than the purely
service elements, Charles Hick-
man’s sensitive production
enlivens what, to the spectator,
is a most intriguing court-
martial.
If the authors point no moral
they certainly stretch credulity
too far and over-elaborate their
plot. The powerful climax, and
the major’s fate, hang upon a
double perjury —of the
unpleasant vindictive C.O. and
the treacherous wife. And .the
major’s single indiscretion with
the nice W.R.A.C. while both
were on duty is a too-facile
dramatic convenience. The act-
ing is superlative.


Procrastination over your Will be serious for your dependents
PROCRASTINATION in Estate Planning and Will-making—
and in bringing a Will up-to-date—has robbed many a family of
its just share of an Estate.
If you desire to make your Will—or bring it up-to-date—you
are invited to call and discuss the matter beforehand with Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited.
The Company’s wide experience will probably enable it to
offer practical suggestions so that the maximum of your Estate
will become available to your beneficiaries.
If, when making your Will, you appoint Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited as your Executor and Trustee—alone or jointly
with a relative or friend—you will be following the lead of many
prudent men.
Ring B 0377 to-day—or write—and make an appointment —
without obligation. If you prefer, ask that a copy of the Company’s
helpful booklet on this subject be sent to you.
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE. AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR. ETC.
Directors; Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, MiC., Chairman; E. B. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. B. LYSAOHT; SAMUEL HOBDEBN; JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A a ABMYTAOB. Managing Dimte. TRUST AND AGENCY RINDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £73,000.000 W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
3jL3
m
:
33-39 HUNTER ST.
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
■ WAGOA WAGOA,
TAMWORTH and
ORANOB.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Humes, Ltd.
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
/ Dividends v
Pref. / — I—Ord. 1 —Ord. s To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 71 p.c. p.c. serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
1949.. 135,860 8,438 8 40,000 87,422 683,904
Sundry res. adjustments. £425,052.. 1,108,956
Less share-issue exes., £1764 ..1,107,192
1950. .243,327 13,125 10 57,534 172,668 1,279.860
Revaluation assets, £477,190 . . 1,757,050
Reserves capitalised, £405,920 .. 1,351,130
Add exchange adjustment, £65,054 ..1,416,184
Written off war claims, £195,470 .. 1,220,714
Less net res. adjustments, £381,835.. 838,879
1951. .338,382 27,188 10 121,817 189i377 1.028.256
Net unexplained additions. £31,143.. 1,059,399
Written off, £29,616 1,029,783
Reduction intangibles, £17,308 .. 1,047,091
1952. .527,106 27,188 10 167,500 332,418 1,379,509
Written off, £14,277 1,365,232
Unexplained decrease, £177,466 ..1,187,766
Reduction intangibles, £291,499 ..1,479,265
1953. .625,860 27.188 17§ 293,125 305,547 1,784,812
t After deducting intangibles, etc., now £17,180.
* After deducting outside interests.
The sharp spring of £98,754 in last term’s
net earnings and the lift in the div, from
10 p.c. to 17i- p.c. exceeded the market’s
anticipations. The price of the co.’s f.-p.
£1 ords., which advanced from 395. in
October last to 41s. in February, 1953,
and remained fairly steady until May,
reached 455. in June and then shot up
to 495. 9d. before the end of August.
Last week the figure stood at 505.,
giving a return of 7 p.c. on a 17£ p.c.
div. basis. The 7£ p.c. A and B prefs. at
28s. 6d. and 275, 3d. yield 5.3 p.c. and
5,5 p.c. respectively. Net tangible cover
is A shares £33 19s. 7d., B £l4 16s. lOd.
and ord. 41s. 3d.
Over the last few years there have
been some big changes in the organisa-
tion and financial structure of the group,
whose principal products are concrete
and concrete-lined-steel pipes. Originally
it was the Hume Pipe Co., formed in
1920, The two chief offshoots, in which
the parent owned the ord. capital, or
most of it, were Hume Steel, Ltd., and
Hume Industries (Far East), Ltd, The
parent changed its name to Humes, Ltd.,
in 1950, when the Steel co. became a
wholly-owned subsidiary, the aims being
to eliminate overlapping, reduce over-
head and further expand the consolidated
undertaking. In the following year
(1951) the New Zealand interests of the
parent and Steel cos. were passed to a
new subsidiary, Hume Industries (N.Z.),
Ltd., for £400,000 in scrip.
Also shareholders have gathered
harvests which compensated for earlier
disappointments. In June, 1950, the
parent issued 270,750 new £1 ords, at
par. followed five months later by
£405,920 of bonus-scrip, one for two,
from a reserve of £477,190 created by
writing up the book-value of shares in
the Steel co., whose business has been
since merged, with that of the parent.
Then in August, 1951, a further 456,830
new £1 ords. were put out also at par.
It all lifted paid capital to £2,037,500
in 112,500 A and 250,000 B prefs., both
p.c, cumulative, and 1,675,000 ords.
The div., which had averaged 4.8 p.c.
for the decade to the close of accounts
in 1948, was lifted from 8 p.c. in 1949
to 10 p.c. for the next three years and
to p.c. last term,
The improvement in latest net earn-
ings of the group was mainly on account
of the parent co.’s activities:
Paid , Profit.
Capital. 1952. 1953.
£ £ £
Humes, Ltd. 2,037,500* 267.641 385,656
Hume Industries (F.E.) 950,000 t 204,209 229,967
Hume Industries (N.Z.) 650,000$ 52,616 30,329
* Includes £362,500 7i p.c. preM. t Includes £250,000
5 p.c. participating prefs. $ Includes £250,000 5 p.c.
prefs.
Profits include amounts due to outside
interests, hence the totals differ from
those shown in the introductory table.
The spring in the parent’s net earnings
was £llB,Ol5 —some of the factories had
to work overtime to keep pace with
commitments, and a more even flow of
raw materials and improved organisation
helped to keep down unit costs. The
Far East co. (profit up £25,758) paid its
first post-war div., an all-iound p.c.
The drop of £22,287 in the N.Z. co.’s
profit was due mainly to curtailment of
Government spending.
After allowing £255,029 (up £70,731)
depreciation, £547,013 {.up £182,562) for
taxation and eliminating outside interests,
combined net earnings of the group were
£625,860, which covered the pref. divs.
(£27,188) and 35.7 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 29.8, 25.5, 40, 25.5, 38.8 and
13.4 p.c. back to 1947. That leaves out
of the reckoning various adjustments
interlined in the table.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
mainly reflect the year’s brisker trading,
together with a marked improvement in
the financial position:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,580,670 £2,037,500 £2,037,500
Outside interest .. 232,055 359,256 549,910
Overdraft .. 1,089,017 521,498
Creditors* .. 1,018,763 1,289,587 1.546,562
Final div. .. 74,502 97,344 189,469
Freehold .. .. 814,475 329,848 324,991
Leasehold .. .. 888
Buildings .. 857,547 904,500 957.887
Plant .. . . 933,037 1,000,904 1,062,502
Asbestos deposits 92,338 133,170 168,963
Shares other cos. 44,726 47,651 62,901
Stocks .. .. 1,521,165 1,993,075 2,127,394
Debtors .. .. 931.943 1,089,389 1,004,891
Cash, etc. .. 27,938 34,184 308,587
War claims .. 299,211 152,523 95,137
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
Excluding shareholdings, the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£1,799,978) was £439,286
stronger than at the previous balance.
Owing to changes in world market con-
ditions, large-scale development of the
new asbestos deposit in Southern
Rhodesia —a joint venture with Goliath
Portland Cement —has been shelved for
the present. The mine is “virtually pay-
ing its way on sale of fibre produced.”
The parent co. reports enough con-
tracts on hand to keep its main factories
fully occupied beyond mid-1954, and
additional orders are anticipated. And
the very welcome cut in public-co. tax
will mean, on the basis of last term’s
figures, a saving of about £121,000 in
the tax bill, and there will be a little
further relief from the cut in pay-roll
tax, too. The Far East co. expects
to maintain earnings on a fairly even keel,
though the fall in tin and rubber prices
is likely to affect sales and profits later
on. No further contraction in the N.Z,
co.’s net earnings is anticipated.
Meggitt, Ltd.
, Dividends N
Pref.*
May, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Deflcit.t
£ £> £ £
1944.. 31,242 3100 7# p.c.= 25,371 23,608
1945.. 31,660 3100 7J ~ „ 25,371 20,419
1946.. 33,468 3100 7| „ „ 25,371 15,422
1947.. 34,018 8100 7f „ „ 25,371 9,875
1948.. 40,769 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 5,843
Reserves.
1949.. 46,192 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 3,612
1950.. 58,786 4000 12J,', „ 46,148 12,250
To staff fund, £5OOO 7,250
1951.. 56,593 4000 10 p.c. = 36,918 22,925
1952.. 51,939 4000 10 „ „ 36,918 33,946
1953. . 53,933 4000 10 ~ „ 36,918 46,961
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act.
t After deducting goodwill, £115,748.
A very satisfactory result, considering
the number of lions in the financial path
of linseed-crushers, tor whom the out-
look at the moment is clouded, especially
so far as the supply of raw seed is con-
cerned, The co., biggest thing of its
kind in Australia, turns out and markets
linseed-oil and linseed-meal stock-foods
from well-equipped factories at Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane. The
two principal consumers of the oil are
the paint and lino, industries. The stock-
foods have long enjoyed a wide market
in the dairying and pastoral industries,
where they enrich butter-fats and en-
hance fat-lamb, mutton, beef and wool
production.
One of the co.’s chief troubles of
recent years has been irregular supplies
of imported linseed, which has come
mostly from India. So far as earnings
are concerned, the effects were largely
offset by the processing and packing of
imported oils, and by a small but in-
creasing supply of home-grown linseed.
Last term imported seed was in short
supply and the price fell. On the other
hand the Australian crop increased by
about 5000 tons, reaching a record of
11,000-odd tons, equal to about one-third
of the country’s annual requirements of
linseed-oil. Demand for the oil, slack
during the first half, picked up during
the second half of the term, and a dry
winter stimulated sales of the stockmeal.
So, despite the fall in overseas raw-
material prices and continued rise in
operating costs, the board was able to
show an extra £1994 of profit at £53,933.
At the same time it substantially reduced
the heavy load of stocks and outside debt
with which it began the year’s trading. The
£53,933 of profit was written after allow-
ing £26,181 (up £2046) for depreciation
and something for taxation and “other
contingencies.” It was enough to pay
the pref. divs. (£4000) and show 13.5 p.c.
on the £369,182 of ord. capital as against
13, 14.3, 14.8, 12.9 and 11.2 p.c. back
to 1948. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.,
making the average 10.4 p.c. over the last
six years. The £13,015 that remained
lifted free reserves £46,961 higher than
the goodwill item (£115,748). In addi-
tion there is £311,291 earmarked for de-
preciation and replacements.
Stocks (in at the lower of cost or
market-value, less reserve) were reduced
by £954,447, and the overdraft (£915,253
at the previous balance) was wiped out:
1951. 1952. 1958.
Paid capital .. £409,182 £409,182 £409,182
Deprec. reserve .. 270,867 286,681 311,291
Overdraft .. 915,253
Sundry creditors* 1,236,246 891,858 968,187
Staff fund .. 29,000 29,000 29.000
Final divs. .. 20,459 20,459 24,561
Premises .. 168,243 160,404 158,925
Plant ~ .. 829,114 352,933 399,936
Stocks .. .. 859,439 1,606,226 651,779
Book debts .. 246,998 308,705 376,286
Cash, etc. .. 398,884 162,610 202,245
* Includes suspense accounts.
The improved trading position at the
close of accounts shows up in net addi-
tions of £72,581 to book-debts and of
£76,829 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors. The growth of £47,003 in
plant mainly reflects purchase of mine-
sweeper and its conversion to a bulk-oil
lighter.
The Australian equivalent of the
world-parity price for linseed fell from
£9O a ton for the 1951-52 season to £65
last season. Although crushers have
offered growers a guaranteed figure of
£7O a ton, farmers are switching to wheat
and other crops, and only a token harvest
of linseed is expected for the year to
June 30 next. Meanwhile the Tariff
Board has investigated the questions of
increased tariff-protection or a subsidy,
and the Government decision in the
matter is awaited. However, the Govern-
ment’s all-round reductions in taxation
should help strengthen demand for the
co.’s products as well as directly assist
net earnings.
At 335, (295. early in 1953) the f.-p.
£1 ords. return 6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is 225. 7d. The well-protected prefs.
seldom appear on ’Change.
Australian Foundation Investment
June 30, Profit. -Dividends— N Reserves.
£ p.c. £ £
1946 .. 24,976 4J 22,950 84,687
Profit shares sold, £2342 .. 87,029
1947 . . 30,109 4J 26,191 90,947
Profit shares sold, £11,830.. 102,777
1948 . . 42,605 5 30,874 114,508
Profit shares sold, £72 .. 114,580
1949 .. 52,323 5£ 89,847 127,556
Profit shares sold, £233 . . 127,789
1950 . . 60,751 5| 46,000 142,540
Profit shares sold, £12,435 .. 154,975
1951 .. 103,130 6 60,000 198,105
Profit shares sold, £69 .. 198,174
1952 . . 112,864 6 72,000 239,038
Profit shares sold, £55 .. 239,093
1958 .. 86,564 6 72,000 253,657
This 25-year-old is the pioneer and
also the largest of the “managed” in-
vestment cps. in Australia. The under-
vestment cos. in Australia. The under-
lying principle of the business, and of
others like it, is the pooling of small
savings for collective investment, with
security of income and gradual appreci-
ation of capital over the years as the
targets. Divs. are usually moderate until
substantial reserves have been built up.
So, from the investor’s point of view, the
scrip is essentially a holding proposition.
On a rising market, achievement of the
objects is almost automatic. Industrial
earnings and security values, however,
rise and fall with changes in economic
and other conditions. Hence it is im-
possible to avoid some contraction of
income and /or market-value where a
large and widespread portfolio is in-
volved.
Those on the co.’s register have had
regular divs. from the start. The rate
climbed steadily to 6 p.c. in 1938, dropped
to an average of 4.2 p.c. for the seven
years of war and controls to 1945, and
rose by fractional steps from p.c. in
1946 to 6 p.c. in 1951 and has remained
steady since. Paid capital grew by new
share-issues at par from £540,000 in 1946
to its present figure of £1,200,000 in 1951.
At the close of last accounts invest-
ments numbered 587, practically all held
in Australia —in 1939 about 25 p.c. of
the portfolio was domiciled in Britain
and 21 p.c. in the U.S. The types of
securities held compare as follows:
1945. 1952. 1953.
Bonds, etc. .. 8.6 p.c. 0.9 p.c. 0.7 p.c.
Pref. shares .. 5.1 „ 4.4 „ 7.4 „
Ord. shares ~ 86.3 „ 94.7 „ 91.9 „
The emphasis in investment policy is
thus upon equities, of which 12.8 p.c.
are textiles, 11.6 p.c. banks and insur-
ance, etc., 10.6 p.c. chain and department
stores, 9.9 p.c. food, etc., and the balance
is scattered over a wide range of other
industries.
Last term there was a shrinkage of
£26,300 in net earnings, reducing the
figure to £86,564, or 7.2 p.c. on capital
as against 9.4, 10.3, 7.6, 7.3 and 6.9 p.c.
back to 1948. There was also a small
net capital gain of £55 on sale of securi-
ties.
At June 30 last the co. was using
£260,520 (up £25,089) of outside money
as well as its own funds:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,200,000 £1,200,000 £1,200,000
Overdraft .. 66,250 151,507 201.860
Creditors .. 132,989 83,924 58,660
Tax provision .. 23,987 15,151 13,989
Div. provision .. 60,000 72,000 72,000
Investments* .. 1,512,064 1,711,678 1,790,032
Debtors, etc. .. 9,581 5,054 6,848
Cash .. .. 159,686 44,888 3,286
* At cost.
The year’s increase in the book-value
(cost) of investments was £78,354, and the
market-value of the portfolio exceeded
its book-value by £212,137.
As for the outlook, the background
of trade and industry has been bright-
ened by a number of factors, last but
not least of which is the Budget. In
our overseas trading account a sub-
stantial surplus has replaced the large
deficit of a year ago, thus removing the
threat from that quarter, thanks partly
to timely Government action and partly
to a bigger wool cheque. Swollen trade
inventories have been worked down with-
out serious mishap, employment is at a
high level, another good season is in
prospect, wool prices look like holding
at or near last season’s figures, no general
price-inflation is imminent, and there is a
better flow of essential goods, such as
coal, steel and building materials. Over
the last couple of years we have passed
from boom to comparative stability—
temporarily at any rate —with little dis-
location to business or employment.
Nevertheless, savings are too low to sus-
tain expansion, and costs are too high.
As an inducement to greater effort, effi-
ciency and savings, and therefore to
further enterprise and progress, the Gov-
ernment has just granted a substantial
measure of relief from taxation over a
wide field. These tax-remissions are in-
tended to stimulate both demand and


Hard or Soft?
Thick or Fine?
Upright or Oblique?
The nib that suits one man will drive
another to distraction, so we make Swan
nibs in such variety that everyone can
find one that will "answer” to his hand
exactly. That’s one of the reasons why
it is so satisfying to own a Swan —the
precision writing instrument that is
made for a lifetime of faithful service.
Swan side-lever and leverless pens are
available at all better jewellers, stationers
and stores.
Write for life
with a ...
tit/ajt •Sen
MABIE, TODD & CO. (AUST.) PTY, LTD,, SYDNEY
83.62.1 .
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO GEORGE THOMAS COOK late of 94
Cronulla Street Carlton. —TAKE NOTICE
that MYRLE JULIA COOK has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3124 of 1958 on
the ground of your desertion during S
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 17th day of November 1963
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from E. M. JURD, Solicitor, 67
Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUG-
HAN, Registrar.
PROGRESS
PLANNING
have placed the
Metropolitan Life in
the forefront of Austra-
lian financial organisations.
Plan your financial pro-
tection through a
Metropolitan
policy.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BWBO6I.
TO -DAY'S PROTECTION—TO-MORROWS SECURITY
EVERY YEAR
A BONUS YEAR
FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
m
Have you ever looked out into the heavens on a
starlit night and marvelled at the infinities of space?
There is something truly majestic in the incompre-
hensible distance, the myriad masses of light dwelling
in the deep azure that canopies our evening.
Man, you know, is getting to learn more and more
about the universe in which his earth is moving. And
each new piece of knowledge piles glory upon glory
in its mysteries.
I have just been reading an engrossing story in
the account of work that astronomers are doing with
the great new 200-inch telescope at Mount Palomar,
California, which I saw being built at “Caltec,” Los
Angeles, in 1939.
The successful construction of the Palomar
telescope is an epic story of triumph over defeat and
disaster, because George Ellery Hale was filled with
a passionate determination that it should be built.
This gigantic glass eye is looking out from the
world, picking up previously unknown bodies of stars
in almost unbelievable number; photographing
swathes of the heavens one-tenth the size of the sun;
registering very many star families similar to the
Milky Way, which hitherto were faint streaks of light
in the panorama; multiplying to staggering height the
estimate of the number of individual stars.
Now this, to me, is stupendous. It widens the
vision of man, literally so. It enriches his philosophy,
picks for him fresh courses in the measurement of
near-infinite distance. It probes anew the secrets of
universal energy.
Bringing the subject down to earth —for the minds
of most of us, not being astronomers, may safely leave
the outward searching to those who are trained to it —
I have two reflections :
Here is one more work in which America is per-
forming a splendid service for mankind. Let us not
forget it, in a world too easily disposed to take for
granted what Americans are doing, both in material
aid and in modern science, to benefit the lot of
humanity.
And in the awesome perspective of the universe,
let us rise with Faith and Courage to the solution of
our own slight problems. How small the most complex
of them are against the vastness that dwells in the
sky. And how marvellous is the untouchable Spirit
with which Man has been gifted to set out and conquer
them.
“Learn from the Stars.” It was a saying of the
ancients. The eye on Palomar gives it new glint and
meaning now.
supply. There can be no doubt
that the theme is the right one.
How it will all work out will
depend largely upon whether the
Budget is accepted as prize-
packet or challenge. In the
sharemarket the immediate effect
has been a rise in prices.
At ss. sd. this co.’s ss, shares
return 5.5 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div.
basis. Based on market-value of
securities at Jung 30 last, net
tangible cover is 6s. lid.
Cascade Brewery (Hobart)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends, serves, serves.
£ p.c. £ £ £
1960.. 38,747 13J 29,812 I R - g9 194 124
To staff fund. £336 j 8,599 194,124
Profit, sale assets, £l3OO .. 195,424
Written off, £lO,OOO .. 185,424
1951.. 44,741 8 37,425 7,316 192.740
To staff fund, £264 .. 192,476
Unexplained decrease, £4165 188,811
Tax underprovided, £9775 178,536
Profit sale assets £25,163 203,699
1952.. 49,511 Nil 49,511 253,210
To staff fund, £lOO .. 263,110
Unexplained additions £1703 254,813
Written off freeholds, £1192 253,621
Tax written back, £6038 259,659
Profit sale assets, £6901 266,560
1953.. 48,141 5 27,873 20,768 287,323
To staff fund, £l5 .. 287,813
The co.’s main sources of earn-
ings are (1) approximately a
half - interest in Tasmanian
Breweries Pty., (2) hotel and
other rentals, (3) manufacture of
cordials, and (4) returns from a
small offshoot. Traders Pty., in
the wine-and-spirit trade. The
co. pulled out of its post-war
berry-fruit-juice venture a couple
of years ago at a loss of about
£14,000, charged against
reserves.
Outstanding features of the
accounts over the last four years
have been expansion of the
brewery and hotel interests and
the cordial factory, and growth
of the capital account. Shortly
before the books closed in 1950
135,000 new 21s. shares called
to 20s. each were issued at par.
At the same time a tax-free gift-
issue of 150,000 bonus shares,
also of 21s. paid to 20s, each,
was made from a reserve of like
amount created by writing up
the book-value of freeholds.
During the 1952 term the board
proposed to ask shareholders for
more to help finance installation
of a new malting plant at the
brewery and to provide more
working capital. But it was not
until October, 1952, that Capital
Issues Control authorised an
issue at par of 90,000 new 21s.
shares also called to 20s. each.
The new plant, which should
help to quicken output and ease
the pressure of costs, is expected
to be in operation early in 1954.
Paid capital has thus grown
from £225,000 in 1949 to
£600,000 at June 30 last. It all
helps to explain the drop in the
div. from 13£ p.c. in 1950 to
8 p.c. in 1951 —the bonus-scrip
made 8 p.c. worth 11.3 p.c. on
capital as it stood before the gift
—the absence of a distribution
in 1952 and the moderate 5 p.c.
sent out last term.
Net earnings have held fairly
well, all things considered. Dur-
ing the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, all sections of the
business “operated successfully.”
After allowing £10,767 (down
£159) for depreciation and
£34,000 (up £1400) for taxation,
the profit claimed was £48,141
(down £1370), or 9 p.c. on capital
as against 9.4 p.c. and 9,6 p.c.
for the two preceding years.
That leaves out of the reckon-
ing non-recurring items inter-
lined in the table. So the 5 p.c,
div. was a comfortable matter,
leaving £20,768 (over 43 p.c. of
the year’s net earnings) to plough
back into the business, lifting
reserves to £287,313.
The year’s net addition to
freeholds (including the brewery
premises* which are rented to the
brewing co.) was £78,145, and to
plant and equipment (mainly the
cordial factory) £60,696:
1951. 1952. 1958.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 505,262 510,000 600,000
Mortgages, etc. 106,749 107,504 141,572
Other creditors 82,979 87,842 41,944
Tax reserve .. 21,100 32,600 84,000
Final div. .. 19,887 14,488
Freeholds, etc. 578,277 604,824 682,469
Plant, etc. .. 114,168 176,840 237,086
Shares other cos. 80,764 59,725 60,475
Stocks .. .. 50,054 60,821 62,009
Book debts, etc. 88,227 19,318 19,668
Cash. etc. .. 16,465 20,629 67,616
To meet the outlay on fixed
assets and carry an extra £47,087
of cash, shareholders put up*
£90,000 (mostly represented by
assets not yet contributing to the
pool) and £38,670 was added to
the outside debt, which includes
a loan of £122,222 (up £34,568)
from the A.M.P. Society.
Including the final div, and tax
reserve, outside liabilities
exceeded more-or-less liquids by
£32,191 (up £14,638).
At 265. 6d. (275. 6d.
November, 1952) the shares
return only 3.8 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis. Obviously the market
expects something better than
5 p.c., and it may not be dis-
appointed in its expectations.
The investor at 265. 6d. who
looks for 5.3 p.c. on his money
counts on a 7 p.c, distribution,
which was 2 p.c. less than last
term’s rate of net earnings on
average capital. And the current
year’s earnings can expect some
benefit from the cut in co. taxa-
tion. Including the Is. a share
of uncalled capital, net tangible
cover is 30s. 7d.
New Coolgardie Gold Mines
To repay the balance
(£67,000) of a loan from Western
Mining Corp. and to provide
additional working capital, this
co. has just issued 174,400 new
10s*, shares, which will lift paid
capital to £513,200 in 10s. shares.
Formed in 1947 the co. took
over leases and options from
W.M.C. in the Hampton Plains
and Burbanks areas, Coolgardie
(W.A.). The Burbanks option
was later abandoned and the
Callion mine, 74 miles north of
Coolgardie, was bought and
equipped. Milling began ahead
of schedule in March, 1949.
For the year to March 31 last,
65,029 tons (up 11,872 tons)
were treated—37,7B9 tons from
the Surprise and Barbara
(Hampton) leases and 27,240
from the Callion —for
(up 86970 z.) fine gold. The
average recovery was 10.75dwt.
(up 0.87dwt,), or 95 p.c. of head-
value. Costs (including 245. for
development) were 1.75, lighter
at 131.85. per ton.
Including £31,987 of gold
premiums, the profit was
£140,580 (up £82,094), equal to
27.4 p.c. on £513,200 of capital.
A maiden div, of 6d. a share
(£21,300) was sent out on
July 14.
During the year £60,500 of the
loan from W.M.C. was repaid,
leaving a balance of £67,000,
and the overdraft (£57,837 at the
previous balance) was wiped out.
The amount coming to sundry
creditors was £38,993. Current
assets totalled £136,561, of which
£40,987 was stores.
Ore reserves at March 24 last
were put at 117,800 tons, averag-
ing 12.3dwt., of which 68,000
tons (12.1dwt.) was in the
Hampton group and 49,800 tons
(12.6dwt.) in the Callion, with
prospects of a lot more payable
stuff being developed. The co.
also recently pegged 25 gold
leases at Bayley’s mine, lately
worked by Phoenix Gold, and
took options over 15 gold leases
and prospecting areas at Camel
Farm Reserve, 4\ miles n.-e. of
Coolgardie.
The f.-p. 10s. shares, which
had dropped to 7s. 3d. during
1952, fetched 15s. 4d. last week.
Gold Mines of Australia,
a Melbourne-domiciled manage-
ment and prospecting concern
with a paid capital of £52,219
in f.-p. 2s. 6d. shares, intends to
look for metals other than gold,
and is seeking the opportunity to
mine uranium, the chairman
says. He adds that funds needed
for such a venture would be
large, and that any develop-
ment thereof would probably be
undertaken in conjunction with
other interests. No further in-
formation is vouchsafed on these
two points. At the moment the
co. is a small shareholder in,
and acts as general-manager and
consultant to. Central Victoria
Dredging, Morning Star, Mt.
Coolon and Victoria Gold
Dredging. For the year to
March 31 last it earned a profit
of £2948, mainly from manage-
ment and consultant fees. Of
the three areas in Victoria being
investigated, one at Bendigo and
another at Creswick Creek have
been abandoned, the third, at
Stawell, is being further drilled.
The market prices the co.’s
2s. 6d. shares at Is. 6d. each.


Women's Letters
MEILDCDDNE
The Australian flag and the Stars and
Stripes decorated the foyer of the Dor-
chester for the party given by the U.S.
Naval Attache, Captain Robert A. Mac-
pherson, and Mrs. Macpherson to fare-
well the departing Assistant U.S. Naval
Attache, Commander Robert Macklin,
and Mrs. Macklin, and to welcome his
successor, Lieut. R. Brumstead, and his
wife. Mrs. Macpherson’s ballerina-
length frock was of finely-pleated black
chiffon. Mrs. Macklin wore cinnamon-
brown Chantilly lace mounted on match-
ing taffeta, Mrs. Brumstead a cocktail
suit of delphinium-blue self-patterned
brocade. Among the many guests were
Sir John -Latham, Air-Marshal Sir
Donald Hardman and Lady Hardman
and Lieut.-General Sir Horace Robert-
son.
Mrs. Norman Robinson wore black
taffeta. Mrs. John Carrodus’s brocades
were rose pink and black. Mrs. Selwyn
Jansen, wife of the N.Z. Army Attache,
wore a grey-and-black-spotted wool suit
and tiny black cap. , Mrs. John Reilly’s
black-wool frock was trimmed with
bobble-braid. Mrs. Ross Grey Smith’s
black silks were patterned with large off-
white roses to match the flowers in her
black hat.
Americans present were U.S. Consul-
General Henry E. Stebbins and Mrs.
Stebbins, whose deep-burgundy straw
calot (it matched her husband’s tie per-
fectly) was worn with a powder-blue
wool frock ; Mrs. Earl Daum, whose grey
jersey frock was trimmed with black
velvet to match her tiny hat; Mrs. James
Clark, wife of Major Clark, assistant
U.S. Army Attache, in shell-pink faille
frock and small black velvet calot; and
Mrs. John Middleton, whose frock was
of white ribbon woven into white
taffeta, her small cloche of white feathers.
ft ft ☆
Spring blossom and lilies decorated
Trinty College Chapel for the wedding
of Mardi, only daughter of Mr. K. Heal-
ing, of Kew, and the late Mrs. Healing,
to Dr. William Samuel Hare, youngest
son of Mrs. R. V. Hare, of St. Kilda-
road, and the late Mr. Hare. The bride’s
long-sleeved gown of white organdie was
embroidered with Swiss organdie flowers.
Her full-length tulle veil was held by a
pearl tiara, and she carried white
orchids. Three ’maids, Sue Spry, Ann
Sauter and Shirley Gage, wore frocks of
deep-grey paper-shantung, which had
crossover bodices and full skirts. Dr.
Bill Armstrong was best man, and
groomsmen were Dr. Ken Farley and Dr.
Peter Ebeling.
Reception was at the Australia, where
the bride’s father and stepmother—the
latter wearing a gown of cloth-of-gold
and a gold-mesh cap—received the
guests. Mrs. Hare chose a black ensemble
worn under a fur coat. Mrs. A. G.
Healing, the bride’s grandmother,
covered her black crepe gown with a
black-mole coat. Among the guests were
Mrs. J. Lamb, whose frock was of black
tulle; Mrs. Harry Sinn in short gold-
embroidered black tulle skirt and an off-
the-shoulder bodice finished with black-
and-gold crochet-work ; Mrs. J. J. Green,
who wore ink-blue paper-shantung;
Norma Young, whose taffetas were shot-
green ; Mrs. Keith Smith, who wore
black Chantilly lace, and Mrs. Arthur
Adams, whose rose-pink crepe was
spotted with diamente.
V V V
The fashion-show at George’s began
with beachwear styles, for which denim is
the most popular fabric. One new
model swimsuit by Scamp in black nylon
lastex featured front corselet-lacing. Very
attractive was an iridescent-lasticised
faille swimsuit trimmed with jet on black
braid and worn with a large straw sun-
bonnet. With a shocking-pink satin
swimsuit was worn a shell anklet which
matched the hair ornament. Floral poplin
also made a snappy beach frock and
swimsuit. A white terry-cloth beach-
wrap had black-and-white-striped lining.
Shorts and jacket of powder-blue denim
had a red-and-white candy-striped jersey
for contrast. A red coolie coat in denim
was worn with black denim pants and a
very wide and deep-red straw hat which
featured cut-out eye-holes.
A sun-frock of white pique, cut with
a slim skirt and strapless bodice, was
worn with a matching stole with deep-
fringed hem. A smart white-cotton
frock was trimmed with rows of colorful
peasant embroidery. Striped green-and-
white denim, with a glazed finish, made
another pretty frock. Gingham in tar-
tans, checks and stripes were used effec-
tively in other frocks. A frock of pale-
blue cotton was patterned with gold
butterflies on blossom-branches. A satin
cotton frock in rich wine tonings had
the fullness drawn to the back and a high
Chinese neckline. Nylon will also be
popular, one in pale-blue being per-
manently pleated.
An evening-gown of white organdie was
trimmed on the wide skirt and strapless
top with 400yds. of Valenciennes lace.
Another of pure silk tangerine chiffon
had widening frills to form a whirlwind
skirt. Narrow black velvet ribbon was
threaded through a sheath gown of white
organdie.
Mrs. John Reilly, whose husband is
secretary of the Melbourne Racing Club,
divides her time between home, garden.
golf and the turf. She has two daughters,
Ann (ten) and Susan (eight). Mrs. Reilly
was a member of the committee which
organised the M.R.C. ball at the Royale
Ballroom for Legacy.
Mrs. Robert Macklin and Mrs. William
Adamson, who are leaving for the U.S.,
were guests-of-honor at the afternoon
tea which followed the monthly meeting
of the American Women’s Auxiliary to
the Children’s Hospital. The E.S.U.
rooms in Toorak-road were the setting,
and gifts of spoons were made —a custom
followed for many years by the auxiliary.
President Mrs. C. McKay was in the
chair, and at the gathering were Mes-
dames Paul Terry, B. Masterson, J.
Tilton and Raymond Jones.
ft ft ft
Mrs. Herbert Brookes gave a small
sherry-party at the International Club,
when plans for this year’s International
Club Ball to be held on October 5 at St.
Kilda Town Hall were discussed. It will
also celebrate the club’s 21st birthday.
Each national group will be responsible
for its own table-decorations, and this
year Austrians will have the honor of
decorating the official table. Dancers in
national costume will open the ball with
a polonaise, and during the evening other
groups will perform national dances.
Entrance is by entree-card only, which
may be obtained at the International
Club, 68 Powlett-street, East Melbourne.
Tickets are 30s. each. Convenor of the
ball committee is Mrs. L. H. Eyles.
ft ft ft
Maggie Fitzgibbon, who goes abroad
to seek fame on the English stage, and
Alice Adcock, who has returned from
overseas to resume her duties as matron
of the Margaret Coles Maternity Hos-
pital, were guests-of-honor at a luncheon
party given by Mrs. Wallace Mitchell at
Menzies’. The hostess and Maggie wore
black ensembles, Alice a jacket of white-
spotted light-grey tweed and a pleated
skirt of grey flannel. Among the guests
were Mrs. Alex Finlay, in black frock
and small black velvet bonnet; Mrs.
Juddie James in Persian-lamb coat and
black velvet visor cap ; and Mrs. Frank
Fitzgibbon (Maggie’s mother), whose
black suit was worn with an off-white
melusine cloche.
SYDNEY
During the heat in Sydney last week
(86 degrees one day) it was like entering
fairyland to visit the orchid display at
the Town Hall. All down the centre of
the hall were district displays built like
gardens in cool gullies, with waterfalls,
running streams, mossy beds, grottoes,
ferns, trees and, in the winning Western
Suburbs exhibit, butterflies and birds,
too. In such settings the glory of the
orchids was quite breathtaking, and in
the professional and special displays on
the stage and round the room the varieties
of exquisite form and color-were almost
too much to be taken in at one visit.
The Governor opened the show on
Tuesday and brought with him Sir James
Bissett under the impression that he
would be of help in appreciating the
orchids. But, his Excellency said. Sir
James was “no good at all. Didn’t even
know the names.” It is Mr. John
Bissett, the president of the Orchid
Society, who knows all the answers. The
secretary of the society, Mr. J. C. Davis,
said that it is not hard to grow orchids
in Australia; the cymbidium may be
grown in any backyard provided it has
a sheltered n.-e. aspect and about 60 p.c.
of filtered shade. He added that of the
730 members of the N.S.W. society about
20 p.c, were women.
Miss Thea Rowe, whose rare talent in
the art of folksong and mime will be fea-
tured at an afternoon entertainment in
aid of the Lady Mayoress’s Relief Fund
on November 12, is at present in Western
Australia, where she is touring for the
Adult Education Board of W.A. It is
reported that her first recital in Perth,
accompanied by Mr. Henri Penn, was a
great success. Miss Rowe, with her hus-
band, Mr. Breffni Hashing, was made
Bard of the Gorsedd of Cornwall in
1951, an honor bestowed in recognition
of her work as an interpreter of folk-
songs.
The wail by wives that “men never
listen” was confirmed the other day when
a young husband said as he walked out
of the room in the middle of a conver-
sation ; “Keep on talking, dear. I’ll
be back in a few minutes.”
☆ ☆ ☆
New Zealand visitors to the Golden
Jubilee celebrations next week of Kin-
coppal Convent will be Mrs. N. E. Wat-
son (Auckland) and Miss Ngaire Cooper
(Wellington), who will represent the ex-
students associations of the Sacre Coeur
convents over the Tasman. From Bris-
bane will come Mrs. John Fihelly and
from Melbourne Mrs. R. N. Biggins.
Another visitor will be Signora Daneo,
wife of the Italian Minister in Sydney,
who is a graduate of the Sacre Coeur
College, Manhattanville, N.Y. Mrs.
Rupert Chance, president of the Kin-
coppal Ex-students Association, says
that during the week-long celebrations
nearly 1000 friends, “old girls” and
even “old boys” (who were there when
they were “under eight”) are expected to
pass through the school.
The original stone house around which
the school has grown was named by
Mr. John Hughes, who built it in the
’sixties and called it Kincoppal (in Irish,
“horse’s head”) because of the forma-
tion of a huge rock in the garden. When
Mr. Hughes died he left the house to his
daughter Maria, who, with her sister, was
a member of Sacred Heart community
at Rose Bay. (Mother Maria Hughes
died in 1951, but Mother Susie Hughes
is still living). The school had been first
established in 1903 in Bourke-street,
Darlinghurst, where St. Aloysius’ Col-
lege also first began, and where St.
Margaret’s Hospital now stands. It was
moved to its present site on the water-
front at Elizabeth Bay in 1909.
* ☆ ☆
Will Shakspeare himself (impersonated
quite credibly by Colin Webster) wel-
comed the 250 friends and members of
the English Speaking Union’s Younger
Set who attended the Shakspearian Ball
last Friday. The raftered rooms of Glen
Ascham, which had been decorated with
Elizabethan banners and the moonlit
Florentine balconies, made an excellent
setting for the lively company of charac-
ters represented. Freddie Storch, the
president, went a handsome copper color
for Othello, and his partner Margaret
Tingle spread out long blonde hair over
a voluminous nightgown to be an effec-
tive Desdemona.
Hugh McLeod as Brutus was with Jan
Williams as Lucius his page, wearing a
tunic that out-Diored Dior —“definitely
a twenty-four inch hemline,” said Mrs.
Herron, whose husband, Mr. Jus-
tice Herron, very appropriately did the
judging and awarded the prize to
Margery Lockwood, a lovely young
Beatrice, and Warren Rigney, another
Othello. John Pearce and Di Snider
were richly dight as Henry VIII and
Katherine (whether of Aragon, Howard
or Parr was not revealed). Eva and
Lilian Herz were Cleopatra and Cal-
purnia, with Ross Hornibrook and Bill
Salthouse as Caesar and Antony, all
swathed in sheets and waving palms.
There was an excellent set of five charac-
ters from “Twelfth Night,” several
Ophelias and a very odd pair: Puck in
an abbreviated tunic and the ghost of
Hamlet’s father.
☆ ☆ ☆
All the newest “slacks” are tight and
tapered this season, very hard to wear
unless you have the figure (and not too
much of it at that). They bring to mind
the verse Ogden Nash wrote when slacks
first became popular, only it’s much
more appropriate now:
Sure, clothe your lower limbs in pants,
Yours are the legs, my sweeting.
You look divine as you advance,
Have you seen yourself retreating?
☆ ☆ ☆
Ken King, a very promising young
Sydney violinist, who for two seasons has
played in the National Opera orchestra,
is off to Europe for at least a year to
continue his studies, preferably at Salz-
burg. He is related to Oliver King, who
at Rose Bay founded the first of the
music clubs now a feature of N.S.W.
cultural life. About 70 of the lad’s
friends and admirers were at a cocktail-
party in the Overseas League rooms on
Monday to bid him au revoir. They were
received by his parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Eric King, of Hunter’s Hill, and by Ida
Crooke. Ken drew enchanting melody
from his fiddle; Oliver King and David
Hunter, M.L.A., voiced the feelings of
the guests in appropriate terms.
☆ ☆ ☆
Australia’s first Television Ball is to
be held at Pagewood Studios on Friday,
October 9, in aid of the Actors’ Benevo-
lent Fund, and it certainly promises
to be both novel and amusing. The
musicians will be stationed on the steel
gantries which normally carry scene-
changes during filming, klieg-lights will
make the scene somewhat like a Holly-
wood set, and the floor-show will arrive
on the centre of the ballroom floor in
flat-top lorries, or perform from the
surrounding galleries. ■ Notices are, it is
said, being sent to guests advising that
they will have to go home “early.” Every-
one must leave by 7 a.m. Saturday morn-
ing, as studio technicians start work as
7.30 on a production called “After the
Ball Is Over.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Among the seemingly myriad parties
being arranged in aid of the Black and
White Ball (which is in aid of the Royal
Blind Society) is the Mexican Barbecue
to be held at the Point Piper home of
the Consul-General for Nicaragua Mr.
Clifford Paray, on September 19. Mrs.
John Bottomley, who is organising the
party, says “We’re really offering an
awful lot for 155.,” to wit, a dance-band,
a Spanish supper of seven courses, a
swimsuit parade, a Spanish-dance item,
and a midnight barbecue with whole
roasted pigs and sheep turned on a spit
It certainly seems a generous allowance
for one night. The B. and W. committee,
by the way, made £519 at their recent
gala preview of “Tonight We Sing.”


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Diyob.ce.
TO HALFORD LEONARD EMERSON
OLDERSHAW late of 113 Smith Street
St. Marys.—TAKE NOTICE that NANCY
EVELYN OLDERSHAW has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 921 of 1953 asking
the court to exercise its discretion under
Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in tie
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 10th November 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from ROY F. TURNER, Solicitor,
of 850 George Street, Sydney.—J. DOUG-
HAN, Registrar.
Do you like an
c independent 3 spirit?
r
BELtS
io' si ‘i! p s
100% SCOTCH WNljfi
feSTUUD AND EU““ [
IN SCOTLAND
•Distillers "«t» sco;
Our subject is whisky. By which, of
course, we mean Scotch whisky. It
Is generally agreed that Scotland
Is the home of good whisky. From
Scotland come all those famous,
world-known whiskies.
To be precise, our subject is one of
the few remaining Independent
Scotch whiskies. In fact we want to
tell you about ourselves. We are
Bell’s, independent distillers since
1825. Perth is our home town.
Whisky is our pride. And, man,
what whisky! If you’ve a nose on
you to relish the subtle smokiness
of superlative Scotch whisky; if
you’ve a tongue that can taste the
years of maturing; if your palate
can appreciate the blending of many
dlstilllngs to make a perfect whole
—if, in a word, whisky is to you the
heart of the Highlands, its barley-
fields and peat and moors, its glens
and tumbling bums—you’re the
very man for Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
cs<£.
DISTILLERS PERTH SCOTLAND
ISTABLISHSD MBS
SUNDRY SHOWS
Stage and Music
Abbey Organist
The prospect of hearing Sir
William McKie, organist of
Westminster Abbey, playing on
his home ground attracted the
largest audience to a free lunch-
time recital that has ever been
seen at Melbourne Town Hall.
The huge instrument —which
he played for eight years and
which has stood practically
silent ever since the organist
got into holts with the City
Council because he didn’t play
“popular” music at his lunch-
time recitals—sprang to life be-
neath his fingers and danced and
thundered through the Air and
Bourree of Handel, Bach’s Pre-
lude and Fugue in A Minor and
the Larghetto of S. S. Wesley.
The Passacaglia of Rhein-
berger was an astonishingly
tender item to come from an
instrument of such proportions.
The capacity of Sir William to
get nuances out of his music
which nobody suspected were
there was observed to be as
great as ever —it might even
have been greater, but the
squeaking of the Town Hall
chairs prevented a listener in
the back rows coming to a
definite opinion.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Call Me Madam”
Of this projection on to the
boards of Her Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne, of the latest emanation
of the genius of Irving Berlin
somebody has said that it hasn’t
any voices in it. It hasn’t any
sense, wit, intelligence or music
in it, either, and it would be a
possible exaggeration to put its
mental age above seven, but
that did not prevent it being an
amiable vehicle for the wit, intel-
ligence and personality of Miss
Evie Hayes.
Miss Hayes is the first woman
Ambassador to be appointed by
Uncle Sam to a European
country, the country in this
case being the Grand Duchy of
Lichtenberg, which appears to
be inhabited entirely by girls
with beautiful legs and young
men in Tyrolean costume who
sing at the slightest provocation
and whom, by a natural philo-
logical error, she mistakes for
Dutchmen, much to their annoy-
ance.
Soon after Ambassadress
Hayes bursts like an atomic
bomb on the ancient duchy she
starts a love affair with Secre-
tary-of-State Cosmo Constan-
tine, whose ancestors have
always married for money. He
wants to break the tradition and
marry for love. Unfortunately,
Evie is a millionairess in Ameri-
can oil or doughnuts, so the dis-
cussion shifts to the contro-
versial question of an American
loan to the duchy. It is all fixed
up after Evie has rung up
Harry Truman and made some
nasty wisecracks about his
daughter and an international
incident is avoided.
If it seems dull in places that
is possibly because its humor
belongs to the class-domestic,
and the domestic politics of
Washington are about as in-
teresting to an Australian as the
domestic politics of Canberra-
by-the-Molonglo are to an
American. However, whenever it
threatens to become solemn the
irrepressible Miss Hayes is on
the spot to rescue it from the
doldrums, and there are, as well,
several superb ballets, and the
choruses are snappy.
It would have been superflu-
ous for the principals to have
voices, because Mr. Berlin hasn’t
provided them with anything to
bite on. As Cosmo Constantine,
Rene Paul is the romantic hero
(imp.). There is no room for
romance in Miss Hayes’s
cosmos, and poor Mr. Paul,
impeccably dressed and grey-
haired, wandered on and off and
sang without any apparent justi-
fication. It was Miss Hayes’s
show.
♦> ❖
“The Creation”
Haydn in his old age sat down
to write an oratorio on a text
originally intended for Handel.
A skilful blending of Genesis
and Milton, its subject was the
Creation, a fearsome task even
for the modern composer whose
orchestra can, on occasion,
bristle with several varieties of
ear-splitting percussion instru-
ments. But Haydn descends to
no crude descriptions of turmoil
in the universe. Instead, his pic-
ture is of the order created out
of chaos, and his own style was
just the thing to convey this,
for it weds the characteristic
18th-century serenity with his
own masculine vigor.
The sight of rows of stiff
fronts and white dresses was out
of keeping with Haydn’s theme,
but the Queensland State and
Municipal Choir under John
Farnsworth Hall eloquently
matched his inspiration. This is
a choir which keeps well away
from the moderns in favor of
the Handel era, where, it must
be admitted, it has shown itself
to be very much at home.
Betty Prentice, Fred William-
son and lan Martin capably
handled the solos, duets and
trios and persuaded one listener
that if “The Creation” does not
fully measure up to Handel, it
has a freshness and conciseness
for which it deserves to be lifted
off the choral shelf more often.
*** ♦> ❖
William Kapell
At his final Sydney recital the
American pianist gave a “work”
by a contemporary compatriot,
Aaron Copland: the “1941”
Sonata.
It is a mass of jangling dis-
cords, formless, and probably
meaningless to any but the
composer. Whether Kapell
played it well or badly wouldn’t
have mattered in the slightest.
But he did play well, bril-
liantly, in fact, a bracket of
Scarlatti’s miniature sonatas,
and brought out all the subtleties
of Debussy’s “Suite Berga-
mesque” with style and delicacy.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Androcles and the Lion”
The Shavian Playhouse is
offering a delightful production
of “Androcles and the Lion” —
its last show at its present
address on Broadway. The
company needs new quarters
urgently, and, considering its list
of productions since it started in
1951—18 plays, including Shaw,
Moliere, O’Neill, Synge and
Ustinov—more than deserves to
find ’em.
The current production—what
with Edward Jackson’s mild and
excellent little Greek tailor
waltzing with and talking baby-
talk to Jay Crocker’s amiable
lion ; with David Lloyd’s dark
and magnificently - tempered
Ferrovius trying unsuccessfully
not to slay people ; with Pauline
Bell’s beautifully statuesque
Lavinia; and with John Blair’s
femininely-cruel Emperor—is as
lively as it is thoughtful, and
serves to remind one of what
Shaw was always reminding
everybody—that, whatever else
he was, he wias also a most
remarkably good entertainer.
Keith Smith produced the
piece with such good pace and
concision that it seemed to finish
almost before the audience was
satisfied.
* ❖
“The Grass Harp”
The Independent Theatre
workshop group is performing
this rather zany little idyll by
Truman Capote at its North
Sydney theatre.
Mr. Capote’s main characters
are two elderly sisters some-
where in the Deep South; one
is a sweetly witless individual
who makes a few dollars a month
selling her secret cure for
dropsy; the other is a hard
practical woman concerned with
keeping the family alive, housed
and fed, and who tries to force
her sister to reveal her dropsy-
cure so that it can be manufac-
tured. and marketed as a com-
mercial proposition. The sweet
one takes to the deep woods with
a negress servant and her nephew
and there, ensconced in a tree,
sets up some sort of symbolic
opposition to her sister and to
civilisation in general.
Mr. Capote’s whimsy has
distinct possibilities, though, like
a lot of young men, he fills the
mouths of his characters with
too much solemnly adolescent
and mildly incoherent philo-
sophy ; Stanley Hildebrandt,
who produced the current per-
formance with rather plodding
exactitude, might have improved
on the author by playing-up the
weird and the .whimsical at the
expense of the solemn and the
serious.
Ruth Parkhill portrayed the
zany sister with affection if hot
with enough quaintness ; Thora
Small made the other a little too
harsh for the tenor of the piece ;
and Barbara Wyndon made a
bustling, amiable negress,
although the effort sometimes led
her into incoherency.
ijt
“The Student Prince”
- The current production of
“The Student Prince” at the
Rockdale Town Hall by the
Rockdale Musical Society is a
credit to its producer, Carl Ran-
dall, for the smooth co-ordina-
tion of all its factors and its
quick movement. There are no
amateurish flagging or mishaps,
and backgrounds, costumes and
lighting are all good. The music
and singing, though not spec-
tacular, are well-controlled with
an orchestra that blends with
the voices instead of dominat-
ing them (a common failing in
Sydney shows).
There was gaiety about the
production, but it misses the
pathos of “The Student Prince,”
mainly because of the stiff awk-
wardness of Trevor Wilkie,
whose mellow tenor was not
enough to bring the part of Karl
Franz to life. Joan Bray played
Kathy with much grace and
charm, but was not quite equal
to the emotional scenes. Most
professional in their approach
were John Gardiner as Toni,
Peter Calrow as Lutz and
Lionel Larsen as Dr. Engel.
<+ ❖ ❖
“Colombe”
John Sumner’s new repertory
company, which proposes to give
productions fortnightly until
further orders from the general
public, was launched auspici-
ously at the Union Theatre,
University of Melbourne, in
“Colombe.”
Although Anouilh’s comedy
about the husband with the
sublime faith in the immutability
of love who comes home to find
that the wife to whom he .wants
to give happiness has been pur-
suing it in unexpected directions
is not profound, it is ingeniously
written and has one intensely
dramatic moment. Producer
Sumner worked up to this
quietly and gave it its full
impact.
He was admirably supported
by Hana Pravda as Madame
Alexandra, the famous actress,
George Fairfax as her son
Julien and Zoe Caldwell as
Julien’s wife. George Pravda,
as the theatrical director Des-
fournettes, gave another display
of his extraordinarily natural
acting. The rest of the cast pro-
vided an excellent example of
perfect teamwork that augurs
well for the future of the Sumner
project.
Artbursts
Wallace Thornton
Wallace Thornton has a show
of 17 oils at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, at prices up
to 200gns. His main preoccupa-
tion appears to be with contrast-
ing interior and exterior light
by means of scenes of
shadowy rooms through
windows and doors to sunlight
and gardens or a beach.
The contrasts are often effec-
tively achieved, generally by a
dark and heavy dramatisation of
the interiors, but, in the last
analysis, the drama lies more in
the paint than in the vision.
♦♦♦ <£♦
John Rogers, a 23-year-old
product of the National Gallery
school in Melbourne, has been to
Europe, and shows the results of
the expedition at the Peter Bray
Gallery in large canvases of bull-
fights, nudes, interiors and
landscapes. His bulls and mata-
dors look as if they had been
cut out from bits of differently
colored paper with scissors and
gummed onto another piece of
paper, and in “The Bath” the
half of the nude which is out
of water appears to have no
logical connection with the half
that is underneath.
Talkies
“Gift Horse” (Sydney
Embassy); A capital English
film about the brief but glorious
career of one of the 50 U.S.
destroyers taken over by the
R.N. in the early part of the war.
There is plenty of excitement
in actions against the enemy sub-
merged and overhead, including
the ramming of a U-boat
and finally the ramming of the
dock-gate at St. Nazaire —a first-
class piece of filmcraft. Every-
thing about the story rings with
authenticity. Trevor Howard
as the skipper, James Donald
as his No. 1, and Sonny Tufts
and Bernard Lee as the ratings
who are diways in trouble when
ashore cannot be faulted.
“Moulin Rouge” (Sydney
Regent): There are commend-
able features of this film on the
life of Toulouse-Lautrec —the
beautiful camera work in tech-
nicolor, the vivid portrayal of
the bitter, deformed Lautrec by
Jose Ferrer, the vitality of the
crowd scenes in the Moulin
Rouge, the brutality limned by
Collette Marchand as Marie
Charlet. But the film is too long ;
the dancers of the Moulin Rouge
merely demonstrate how boring
the can-can can become with
repetition and the brawls be-
tween the women tend to become
wearisome.
“Angel Face” (Sydney May-
fair): Girls with angels’ faces
but evil hearts are 10 a penny
in filmdom, and in this R.K.O.
melodrama the pattern of
conduct set out for them is fol-
lowed faithfully. The story —of
a girl’s jealousy of her step-
rtiother which drives her to
murder—has the hallmark of
unreality stamped all over it.
Jean Simmons puts some polish
on an unsympathetic role, while
Robert Mitchum follows his
now-accepted technique of mov-
ing through the proceedings as if
he’s half asleep.
“Springfield Rifle” (Sydney
Plaza); In this fairly-well-done
drama on the American civil
war the accent is much less on
the new rifle than on counter-
espionage activities in the ranks
of the Northerners. As the
agent whose job it is to track
down and destroy the traitor in
their ranks Gary Cooper is all
grim-lipped taciturnity and
determination lit occasionally by
an engaging grin. It is a role
that seems to have been tailor-
made to fit his particular
outdoor-action talents.


OUR NEW SELECTION
Baptising Bartholomew
by “STEELE RUDD”
(Arthur H.Davis)
THE baby, twelve months
old, was to be christened,
and pother decided to give
a party. She had been
thinking about the party for
some time, but decision was con-
temporaneous with the arrival of
a certain mysterious parcel. We
were preparing for the christen-
ing. Dad and Dave drawing
water; Joe raking husks and
corn-cobs into a heap at the
door and burning them ; Little
Bill collecting the pumpkins and
pie-melons strewn about the
yard. Mother and Sal were busy
inside. Mother stood on a box.
Sal spread newspapers on the
table and smeared them over
with paste, then handed them
cautiously to Mother, who fixed
them on the wall. The baby
crawled on the floor.
“Not that way,” said Mother.
“That’s upside-down. Give
them to me straight, ’cause your
father sometimes likes to read
them when they’re up.”
They chatted about the
christening.
“Indeed, then, she won’t be
asked,” Sal said. “Not if she
goes down on her knees, the
skinny little”
“Min’, min’, mind, girl! ”
Mother screeched, and Sal
dropped the newspaper she was
about to hand up and, jumping a
stool, caught the baby by the
shirt-tail just as it was about to
wobble into the fire.
“My goodness! You little
rat!” The baby laughed play-
fully and struggled to get out of
her arms. Sal placed it at the
opposite side of the room and
the decorating continued.
“I can remember the time,
then,” Mother said, “when they
hadn’t so much to be flash about,
when the old woman and that
eldest girl, Johanna, used to go
about in their bare feet and
with dresses on —dear me —that
I wouldn’t give a black-gin!”
“Not Johanna, Mother?”
“Yes, Johanna. You wouldn’t
remember it, of course. Norah
was the baby then.”
“You little wretch!” And
Sal rushed for the baby and
pulled it from the fire once
more. She dumped it down in
a different corner and returned
to the paste. The baby made
eagerly for the fire again, and
when halfway across the room
it stopped, rested its cheek on
the floor and fell asleep—and it
on the verge of being christened
Bartholomew —until Dad came
in and took it up.
Mother went into her bed-
room and came out with a
flaring red sash flying over her
greasy gown, and asked Dad
if he liked it. Dad looked at the
ribbon, then out of the window
and chuckled.
“What d’ y’ think of me?”
“Think of y’?” And Dad
grinned.
Mother looked fondly at the
ribbon. She was very satisfied
with herself. She was a true
woman, was Mother. She
tripped into the room again and
came out with some yards of
print and asked Dad what he
thought of that. Mother was
fond of dress.
“Dear me, woman,” Dad said,
“what’s going to happen?”
“But how do y’ like it?”—
letting it hang like a skirt.
Dad grinned more.
“Is it a nice pattern?”
Dad still grinned.
“Does it suit me?”
Dad looked out the window
and saw Joe knock Little Bill
down with a pumpkin. He ran
out.
“Men haven’t a bit of taste,”
Mother said to Sal, folding the
print, “except just for what” —
Joe rushed in at the front door
and out at the back one—
“’cept for what’s to go in their
stomachs. All they think about’s
an old”—Dad rushed in at the
front door and out the back one
—“old horse or something. And
then they think”—Joe rushed in
again at the front door but dived
under the sofa —“think every old
screw is a racehorse” —Dad
rushed in again at the front door
and out at the back one. “My
word, if he finds you there, me
shaver, y’ll catch it!”
Joe grinned and breathed
hard.
Mother put the print away
and mounted the box again.
Then Mrs. Flannigan, a glib-
tongued old gossip, the mother
of sixteen shy selector children,
dropped in, and they drank tea
together and talked about
christenings and matches and
marriages and babies and bad
times and bad husbands until
dark —until Mrs. Flannigan
thought her husband would be
wanting his supper and went
home.
Joe talked of the christening
at school. For a time nobody
paid any attention to him ; but
as days passed and one and
another went home to find that
mother and father and bigger
brothers and sisters had been
asked, the interest grew, and a
revulsion of feeling in favor of
Joe set in. First Nell Anderson
suddenly evinced a desire for
his society previously she
would weep if made stand next
him in class. Then the Murphys
and the Browns and young
Robertses surrounded him, and
Reuben Burton put his string
bridle on him and wouldn’t ride
any other horse in a race, till at
last Joe became the idol of the
institution. They all fawned on
him and followed him about—
all but the two Caseys. They
were" isolated, and seemed to
feel their position keenly.
Joe was besieged with ques-
tions, and answered them all
with a head-shake and a snuffl-
ing of one nostril. He disclosed
all the arrangements and gave
melting descriptions of the pies
and puddings Mother was pre-
paring. How they danced round
him and called him “Joseph!”
The two Caseys stood off in
silence, and in fancy saw those
pies and puddings—a pleasant
contemplation till Nell Ander-
son pointed to them and asked
Joe if they were invited.
“Nah,” Joe said, “n-n-none of
’em is.”
“Ain’t their mother?”
“N-nah, we d-don’t want ’em,”
and he snuffled more. Then the
two Caseys stole away to the
rear of the school, where they
sat and nursed their chagrin in
lugubrious silence and caught
flies mechanically, and looked
down at their dusty bare feet
over which the ants crawled,
until the teacher thumped the
end of the little building with a
huge paling and school went in.
The day came, and we all rose
early and got ready. The par-
son, who had to ride twenty-five
miles to be present, came about
midday. His clothes were dusty,
and he looked tired. Mother and
Sal wondered if they should
offer him something to eat or let
him wait until the guests arrived
and all sat down to the big
spread. They called Dad and
Dave into the little tumble-
down kitchen to discuss the
matter. Dad said he didn’t care
what they did, but Dave settled
it. He said “Get the chap a
feed.”
Joe sat on the sofa beside the
parson’s tall hat and eyed it in
wonder. Joe had never seen so
much respectability before. The
parson ate with his back turned
to Joe, while Mother and Sal
flew busily about. Joe cautiously
put out his hand to feel the
beaver. Mother saw him and
frowned. Joe withdrew his hand
and stared at the rafters.
“Delicious tea,” said the par-
son, and Mother served him with
more.
Joe’s hand stole out to the
hat again. Dave, standing out-
side near the front door, noticed
him and grinned. That em-
boldened Joe and he lifted the
hat and placed his head inside
it and grinned out at Dave,
Mother frowned more, but Joe
couldn’t see her. She hurried
out. Then from the back of the
house Dad’s voice thundered
“Joe!” Joe removed the beaver
and obeyed the call. Harsh,
angry whispers came from the
door, then sounds of a scuffle,
and an empty bucket flew after
Joe as he raced across the yard
towards the haystack.
Soon the guests began to
arrive. The Maloneys and the
Todds and the Taits and the
Thomsons and others, with
children and dogs, came in
spring-carts and drays from
Back Creek. The Watsons and
the Whites and old Holmes and
Judy Jubb, from Prosperity
Peak, appeared on horseback.
Judy, in the middle of the yard,
stepped out of a torn and tat-
tered old riding-habit, with traces
of the cowyard about it, and
displayed a pair of bit boots and
“railway” stockings and a nice
white muslin dress with red
bows and geraniums and a lot
of frills and things on it. Judy
was very genteel.
The Sylvesters—nice people
who had come from Brisbane
with new ideas and settled near
us, people who couldn’t leg-rope
a cow, who were going to make
a big thing out of fowls, who
were for ever asking Dad if
jew-lizards were snakes—came
on foot with their baby in a
little painted cart. A large black
dog, well groomed and in new
harness, without reins, pulled
the cart along.
We had never seen a dog
pulling a cart before, neither had
our dog. He rushed off to meet
the Sylvesters, but stopped half-
way and curled his tail over his
back and growled and threw
earth about with his legs. The
Sylvesters’ dog stood also, and
“Joe had never seen so much respectability before”
curled his tail over his harness.
Mrs. Sylvester patted him and
said “Carlo, Carlo, you naughty
boy! ”
Our dog suddenly made off.
The Sylvesters’ dog pursued
him. He tore along the fence at
coursing speed, making a great
noise with the cart until he
turned a corner, where it upset
and left the baby. But he didn’t
catch our dog. And Paddy
Maloney and Steve Burton and
young Wilkie galloped up
through the paddock shouting
and whipping their horses and
carried away the clothesline
stretched between two trees at
the back.
The house soon filled—there
was just room for big Mrs. Mc-
Doolan to squeeze in. She came
on foot, puffing and blowing,
and drank the glass of holy
water that stood on the table
with bullfrogs careering round
in it. She shook hands with
everybody she knew, and with
everybody she didn’t know, and
kissed the baby. There was no
pride about Mrs. McDoolan.
The ceremony was about to
commence. Joe and the young
Todds and the young Taits, who,
with the tomahawk and some
dogs—about twenty-six dogs—
had been up the paddock hunt-
ing kangaroo-rats, returned with
a live jew-lizard. They squatted
round the door guarding the
trophy.
Dad and Mother, with the baby
in a dress of rebellious hues,
stood up and faced the parson.
All became silent and expectant.
The parson whispered something
to Mother and she placed the
baby in Dad’s great arms. The
band of hunters at the door
giggled and the jew-lizard tried
to escape. Dad, his hair and
beard grown very long, stared
at the parson with a look of
wild, weird reverence about him.
“In the name of the Father,”
the parson drawled, dipping his
fingers into the water and letting
it drip on to the baby’s face, “I
baptise thee, Barthol”—
Interruption.
The jew-lizard escaped, and,
with open mouth and head up,
raced across the floor. Had it
been a boa-constrictor or a
bunyip the women couldn’t have
squealed with more enthusi-
asm. It made straight for Judy
Jubb. But Judy had been
chased by a jew-lizard before.
She drew back her skirts, also
her leg, and kicked the vermin
in the chest and lifted it to the
rafters. It fell behind the sofa
and settled on Todd’s bulldog
that was planted there. Bully
seized it and shook it vigor-
ously and threw it against Mrs.
McDoolan, and seized it again
and shook it more, shook it until
our dog and a pack of others
rushed in. “T the devil!” said
Dad indignantly, aiming heavy
kicks at the brutes. “The child!
Gimme the child! ” Mother
shrieked, pulling at Dad. “Out
w’ y’!” said Anderson, letting
fly his foot. “Down, Bully!”
shouted Todd, and between
them all they kicked the dogs
right through the door, then
heaved the lizard after them.
But the ceremony was soon
over, and everybody was radiant
with joy, everybody but Bar-
tholomew. He had been asleep
until the parson dropped the
water on his face, when he woke
suddenly. He glared at the
strange assemblage a moment,
then whined and cried hard.
Mother shushed him and danced
him up and down, saying “Did
they frigh-ten ’im?” Mrs. Mc-
Doolan took him and shushed
him and jumped him about and
said “There now, there now.”
But Bartholomew resented it
all and squealed till it seemed
that some part of him must burst.
Mrs. Todd and Mrs, Anderson
and Judy Jubb each had a go at
him. “Must have the wind,”
mumuired Mrs. Ryan feelingly,
and Mrs, Johnson agreed with
her by nodding her head. Mother
took him again and showed him
the dog, but he didn’t care for
dogs. Then Sal ran out with
him and put him on the gee-gee,
the parson’s old moke that stood


Missing Friends
TAYLOR..-—Would Charles, Mariam Eliza-
beth and Hannah Taylor, children of
Charles Taylor and Annie Taylor nee
Cameron, their issue or anyone knowing
their whereabouts, please communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell
Street, Sydney, re Estate of JAMES
TAYLOR.
Public Notice
I, LAZER HOLMAN, of Jewish nation-
ality, born at Jerusalem, Palestine, resi-
dent 35 years in Australia, now residing
at 66 St. John’s Ed., Oabramatta, N.S.W.
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
ALL GENUINE
I.H. PARTS ARE
■
■
v<i
mm
WM
w.
i
m
GENUINE
m
m
mm
n
All genuine International
Harvester Parts are “Identical
Twins”. This means they’re identical
with the original parts built into new
products at International Harvester’s
Works. They pass the same inspec-
tion, they’re made from the same
materials . . . that’s
why they fit better, last
longer, and retain the
economy of performance
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(incorporated in Victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities.
Works: Geelong and Dandenong, Victoria.
in your International trucks,
McCormick International tractors and
farm equipment. Your International
Harvester dealer has a systematically
controlled stock of parts for all
the I.H. equipment in your area.
Don’t rely on “will fit” parts. Ask
your local International
Harvester dealer for
only Genuine I.H.
Parts.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
Builder of Essential Equipment for Essential Work .
iVNOiivnauiii
IH
m
McCormick International'
Tractors and Farm Equipment
International Trucks
Defender Refrigerators
International Industrial Powee
psas-se
buried in thought at the fence,
and he was quiet.
A long table erected in the
barn was laden with provisions,
and Dad invited the company to
come along and make a start.
They crowded in and stared
about. Green-boughs and corn-
cobs hung on the wall, some
bags of shelled corn stood in one
corner, and from a beam
dangled a set of useless old cart-
harness that Dad used to lend
anyone wanting to borrow. Dad
and Paddy Maloney took up the
carving. Dad stood at one end
of the table, Paddy at the other.
Both brandished long knives.
Dad proceeded silently, Paddy
with joyous volubility. “Fowl
or pig?” he shouted, and rattled
the knife and piled the provender
on their plates, and told them to
“back in their carts” when they
wanted more ; and he called the
minister “Boss.” Paddy was in
his element.
It was a magnificent feast,
and went off most successfully.
It went off until only the ruins
remained. Then the party re-
turned to the house and danced.
Through the afternoon and far
into the night the concertina
screeched its cracked refrain,
while the forms of weary
females, with muffled infants in
their arms, hovered about the
drays in the yard, and dog-tired
men, soaked to the knees with
dew-wet grass, bailing and block-
ing horses in a paddock corner,
took strange, shadowy shape. It
wasn’t until all was bright and
the sun seemed near that the last
dray rolled heavily away from
the christening of Bartholomew.
Some Trouble with a
Steer
TAEPTH of winter! A cold
morning at Shingle Hut.
Everything coated with frost.
The ground and the woodheap
and the water-cask white with
it.
The draught-horses stood at
the barn, humping their backs
and greedily eating from their
nose-bags. The aged saddle-
mare, which mostly subsisted on
dry grass and long rides, leant
over the slip-rails and gazed
ponderingly at them. In a
corner of the yard a brindle
cow, that Dad one day had de-
horned with a rail, joyously
munched shelled corn-cobs,
while near the house an inquisi-
tive steer, with a lumpy jaw,
cautiously approached the pig-
bucket.
Joe, who had brought the
horses in, warmed his bare feet
at the fire, and sat to breakfast
alone, with his hat on. The
others had finished and were
about. He poured out some tea,
and was commencing on a plate
of fried pumpkin, left at the fire
for him, when Jacko, a half-
grown pet kangaroo, bounded
hurriedly in at the door. He
fouled the table and fell, spread-
ing his ungainly form on the
floor, and resting some of his
tail calmly on the fire. Then
he rose with alacrity and
darted into the back-room. Joe
laughed and ate more pumpkin.
A smell of singed marsupial
reached him and he chuckled
again. Then he called to Jacko
to know what had happened.
The kangaroo was dumb. Joe
called again. Dad appeared at
the door, out of breath, and wet
to the hips with dew from the
greenstuff. He faced Joe angrily
and said “Where’s that damned
kangaroo?”
Joe took in the situation
instantly and was about to say
he didn’t know when Jack©
sneezed in his own peculiar way
and betrayed himself. Dad
entered the room and dragged
him out.
“Hand me that knife,” he de-
manded with fearful earnest-
ness, reaching towards the table
with one hand, while he strained
to retain Jacko with the other.
Joe hesitated. Again “Hand me
that kni-knife!”
The kangaroo was struggling.
Joe was motionless and sullen.
Finally Dad secured the weapon
himself. Then “No, no. D-d-dad.
Don’t!” Joe pleaded. “Don’t
kill him!” He clutched Dad’s
arm and squealed “Murder!”
Dad shook him off, and
swished the blade across. Again
Joe squealed. Still Jacko
struggled.
Then Dad proceeded to
use the knife. But the
thing refused to make as
much as a mark. Dad got dis-
gusted. He took the marsupial
in his arms and heaved it out
of the door on top of the dog,
which was staring in at Joe’s
breakfast. The dog yelped and
limped away, but the kangaroo
bounced up like a football and
attempted to re-enter. Dad’s
large, heavy boot met him at the
door. Jacko wisely disappeared
round the house.
Dad turned to Joe. Joe
moved to the other end of the
table.
“You blockhead!” Dad com-
menced, moving nearer him.
“Didn’t I tell you to get rid of
that damned thing?” A pause.
“Didn’t I?”
Joe made no answer, but pre-
pared for action. He placed
both hands on the table, and,
crouching in a springing atti-
tude, eyed his parent in an
interested way.
“Didn’t I tell you to keep it
Off the greenstuff?” No reply.
Dad edged round the table. So
did Joe. Then Dad sprang at
him and took a piece of his
shirt-sleeve. Joe grinned in-
voluntarily.
“Stand!” cried Dad, reversing
his course, Joe doing likewise.
“Stir another inch and I’ll knock
your brains out!” He brandished
the teapot.
Joe stirred fully a foot.
“Stand,” Dad repeated, “or
by!” But Joe didn’t stand.
He dodged one way, then
another, and, kicking down a
stool that was in his way,
bounded across the room and
out the door. The teapot fol-
lowed him.
A few moments later Dad was
harnessing the plough-horses,
while Joe, with tears in his eyes,
sat concealed behind the hay-
stack. He was despondent, and
remained quiet for a while,
thinking and chewing straw. He
noticed Dave a short distance
away digging potatoes and put-
ting them into a bucket. He
wished to speak to Dave confi-
dentially, He ielt a desire to
make Dave unhappy. He would
tell him that he was going to
clear out, and leave Dad and
the selection and the pet kanga-
roo and everything else to go to
glory. He would break up the
happy home.
Dave wasn’t far off, but Joe
deemed it unsafe to whistle or
call to him, for fear of betray-
ing his whereabouts to Dad. He
stood up and waved his hat
about to attract Dave’s atten-
tion, Dave worked on. Joe
paused to think. Then he gave
a grotesque exhibition of high-
jumping. Dave dropped more
potatoes into the bucket. Joe
reflected again, and an idea
occurred to him. With one eye
round the corner of the stack in
the direction of Dad, he crept
out and secured a stone. He was
an excellent shot, or believed he
was, and thought to lodge the
missile in the bucket to attract
Dave. Gathering himself to-
gether, he let fly. The stone
landed with a thud on the broad
of Dave’s back and raised dust
from his shirt. Gods, how he
jumped and dropped the spade!
He contorted his features,
screwed and twisted about and
looked up and down. His atten-
tion was attracted.
Joe stood still, alarmed and
unable to decide what to do. At
last Dave’s eyes rested on him.
There was an enraged howl,
and, with the* spade uplifted,
Dave ran towards him. Joe
decided on action. He fled.
Making straight for the back-
door of the house, he surprised
the lumpy-jawed steer poking
among the pots, his head buried
to the horns in a kerosene-tin.
The startled beast sprang back,
and the tin went with him. He
had pressed his head into it till
it became a tight fit. He looked
foolish, and twirled round and
round with it. It clung to him.
He paused and pondered.
Gradually his tail rose to a hori-
zontal position. Then, without
warning, he bellowed and
blindly stampeded across the
yard. The brindle cow stared up
inquiringly, and some cattle of
Anderson’s came running down
the lane. He carried a portion
of an old bark shed away, and
nearly brought down Dave, who
was hurrying in pursuit of Joe.
Dave heaved the spade at the
brute and called to Dad to look
out.
Dad glanced round and saw
the steer coming. “Way! Way!”
he cried to one of the horses
(Captain, a newly-broken colt)
as he was throwing a back-hand
across the other. But Captain
was nervous. He snorted and
turned his head just in time to
see the steer collide with the
dray. That was enough. Be-
fore Dad could reach him he
made off, careering madly round
and round the yard. The steer
wasn’t in it with him, particu-
larly when his legs became en-
tangled in the chains. Dave said
he never saw prettier bucking.
He bucked until there wasn’t a
stitch of harness left on him,
then he fell over the fence into
the cultivation and galloped
away lame.
Dad didn’t speak. He stood
watching Captain, until a low,
pathetic bellow broke the
silence. He turned and saw the
steer. The brute was on the
broad of its back between the
shafts of the dray, its legs beat-
ing the air. Dad went to it and
feelingly kicked the tin off its
nose. Then he took a rail and
poked till it struggled to its feet
and departed.
That night, after supper, as
Dad and Dave and Joe cleaned
the guns and cheerfully talked
of going out possum-shooting,
and as the smaller ones played
and prattled merrily on the bag-
carpet before the glowing fire,
no one would have suspected
that the harmony of our house-
hold had ever been disturbed.
(To be continued next week )


KINSEY REPORT
“Sexual Behaviour in The Human Female ”
Orders are now being accepted,for this important book. Owing to present
dollar restrictions, supplies will’ be limitej?, but we absolutely guarantee
delivery of all orders accepted, and advise that in anticipation of the enormous
demand, we may be obliged to refund your money unless you return your
order early.
At present the first volume, “Sexual Behaviour in the Human Male,” is
reprinting in America, and further supplies are expected to reach us about
October, 1953.
All orders will be acknowledged by return mail. Please use the coupon
below.
PAN AMERICAN PUBLISHERS REPRESENTATIVES (Aust.)
Box 3817, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please forward as soon as available: —
SEXUAL BEHAVIOUR IN THE HUMAN FEMALE, 78/6 posted
SEXUAL BEHAVIOUR IN THE HUMAN MALE, 74/- posted
I enclose remittance for £
Name
Address
A Fine Man
BY GAVIN S.CASEY
. . \"\ OUR father was a fine
\ j man,” the old gentle-
\/ man said.
£ That wasn’t the sort
of thing Tom had come to hear.
It was what a man’s mate would
have to say/about him. But the
night was young, and it was
good enough for the present.
“I remember what he looked
like, more or less,” Tom said.
“I’ve got pictures to remind me.
He treated me all right when I
was a little kid, but —you know
what happened well, I’ve
sometimes wondered what he
was really like.”
Over a gap of twenty years,
while he was stalking from fif-
teen to thirty-five, he hadn’t
wondered much. But recently,
with his own divorce creeping
closer, he had thought about it
a good deal. It had been con-
soling to think that after all he
wasn’t just a statistic, and an
example of the decadence of
modern times. Away back in the
days when such things hadn’t
been taken calmly, and friends
of the parties had had to align
themselves firmly on one side or
the other, his father and his
mother had been divorced. The
theory in their time had been
that the guilty one would go to
the dogs sooner or later, but in
their case neither seemed to have
done it.
“He was like a pretty good
feller,” the old gentleman stated,
pouring himself a whisky.
“That’s all Mother ever told
me,” Tom said. “She reckoned
he was a fine man, but too much
for her to handle. What would
she mean by that?”
The old gentleman looked
around, to make sure that his
tiny, wrinkled, weather-browned
old wife was not within earshot,
and gulped his whisky as if in
fear that somebody might take
it away from him. “She meant
a lot,” he said. “She meant
plenty.”
The little, lively, sparklingly
contented ancient woman came
into the room. She twinkled
lifelong affection at the old fel-
low, but there was enough left
over to send a warm wave of
admiration over Tom, whom she
had known when he was all
knees jutting out of his short
pants, and whom she found it
nice to see as a man.
“Remember Tom’s dad?” the
old gentleman barked.
“Indeed I do,” said his wife.
“He a fine man.”
“He was too much for Nora,
though?”
“My word he was.” The
old lady almost sniggered, but
caught herself in time. “I
wouldn’t have been in Nora’s
shoes,” she said righteously.
Then she looked at both Tom
and her husband in doubt. “He
was a big man, full of ideas and
all that, but I’ll take a reliable
chap like you, John.”
'THE old gentleman,
who would never
see eighty again,
scowled ferocious
disapproval of being
considered reliable.
His miniature wife,
’who had been taught
by the years to know
when her position
was strong and when
it was weak, scuttled
into the kitchen.
“What she doesn’t
know won’t hurt
her,” the old gentle-
man snarled, pouring
himself another
drink. “But your
dad and meself
weren’t cobbers just
on Sundays.”
“Mother used to look sad,”
Tom said, just to prompt him.
“She never used to talk about
him, for him or against him, but
she used to look sad and unhappy
when I asked.”
“He was a man with too much
life in him for her,” the old boy
snorted. Then he noticed that
his wife was back in the room,
putting silver in the sideboard
drawer, and shut his mouth,
and added a finger of whisky to
what was already in his glass.
“Indeed, he didn’t,” the
woman snapped from the back-
ground. “All he had in him was
too much drink and too much
foolishness.”
Then her young eyes in her
old face settled on Tom, and
she was overcome by the vague
but frightful fear of ancient
people that their memories
might have got out of control.
“I was fond of Nora,” she
added, and fled again.
“And I was fond of your
dad,” the old gentleman said
fiercely when she was gone. “He
was worth any dozen of ’em
put together.
Then, why did he go away
when I was six? Tom’s thirty-
five-year-old heart asked him in
anguish, though his mind knew
more than well the unbearable
misery of living with some
women.
“When he let us go he kept
on with his work, all right,” he
mumbled miserably.
“What should he do?” the
old gentleman asked in a quiet,
experienced voice. “Cut his
throat in the bathtub? Blow
his brains out? Enter a bloody
nunnery? Drink himself to
death?”
“He seemed to give up the
drink after he got rid of us,”
Tom said, still in the mood of
resentment.
The old gentleman so far had
seemed to be in a state of
slightly prickly suspicion, aware
of cross-examination and not
sure of its purpose. Now, for
the first time, he laughed, an
ancient cackle but filled with true
mirth. “That’s what they
thought,” he snorted. “That’s
what they all thought.”
“What do you mean?” Tom
asked.
“He had mates,” the old
gentleman said, beetling his
brows and reaching again for
the whisky-bottle. “He was on
the way up, and he drank with
us, not with anybody he hap-
pened to meet. If he overdid it
we kept him out of sight. We
were his mates.”
For the first time Tom felt
some of the warmth he had
wanted to feel about his un-
known dad. A man needed
mates as well as supporters, and
it took something to get them.
The latter part of his father’s
career had always seemed too
good to be true, anyway, and
it was nice to know that he had
continued, not as what in those
days had been a “secret drinker”
—in the bedroom that was made
for other things—but as a man
who could reveal his weaknesses
to his pals.
The knee-high, bony, blue-
eyed old lady was back in the
room, but only on the edge of
it. She was in the doorway, with
a tea-towel in one hand and a
plate in the other. The towel
was grey, but it was, no doubt, a
color that seemed a brilliant
white to the worn-out eyes of
herself and her husband. The
plate had myriad cracks from
innumerable family meals and
mighty servings to lusty sons
who had already gone further
away from her than the old
lady would from them when she
died. An impulse of long-past
loyalty had driven her out of
the kitchen, and she looked at
her white-whiskered, shaking
husband with love and fear, and
at Tom with defiance.
“Your mother was your best
friend, don’t forget that, young
man,” she yelped, suddenly.
“Before and after she tholight of
your interests, but what did he
think of? Pooh! Whisky and
barmaids! ”
SHE shot out again, frightened
of what she had said, and
clutching her precious, cracked
dish firmly to her bosom. The
old gentleman’s eyebrows rose
in comical, tolerant surprise.
“Well! ” the old man said.
“Fancy her knowing about that!
I must have talked in my sleep,
or something.”
“Barmaids!” said Tom, dis-
pleased. “Barmaids! ”
“Don’t underestimate bar-
maids, young man,” the old
gentleman told him sharply.
“I don’t,” Tom confessed, with
his thoughts turned inwards.
“They were real women in our
day, not skinny, ginger-headed
whippets,” the old gentleman
boasted, looking astonished to
find his glass so suddenly empty.
“There was a girl at the Grand
—but she wouldn’t
look at anybody but
your dad, anyway.”
He sighed, cast a
cautious glance at
the kitchen-door and
set the bottle
gurgling again.
Tom’s little and
big boyhood with
his cool, sad mother
tugged at him again,
ridiculously. H e
couldn’t find any-
thing to say.
“It never came to
anything,” the old
gentleman went on.
“Your dad was a
good man with the
bottle, but he never
was anything much
with women. Got senti-
mental about ’em —went so
far, and then got his mind all
mixed up between the past and
what he thought the future might
be. Should have stuck to your
mother for ever, and would have
if she’d had any sense.”
Tom felt angry, and then
gulped down his rage as he re-
membered the small, sure world
in which his mother had moved
and lived, very different from,
but much of a size with, the one
in which his wife lived now.
The whisky had stirred up the
old gentleman, and he was no
longer quite sure who Tbm was.
The young chap was just some-
body to whom he could talk
about old days and an old mate.
“Once, when he’d just been
appointed deputy, he got on the
scoot, and he was plenty of
trouble to us,” he said, “I was
metallurgist on the Medusa
South at the time, an’ I bedded
him down in the gold-room, just
to keep him out of trouble.
When I went to let him out in
the morning he was as white as
a ghost. Guess what he said?
He said ‘John, I thought they’d
got me at last. I woke up and
the shadows of the bars on the
window were there on the floor
and I thought I was in jail.’ We
used to laugh over that one later
on, I can tell you.”
A FAINT distaste for the old
man, and for the old man’s
memories of his father, crept
into Tom’s mind ; but the man
from whom he had sought infor-
mation was agedly drunk, and he
kept on giving it.
“There was a girl once —not
the girl at the Grand,” the old
gentleman said; “and the rest
of us decided it was time he did
something more than worry
about women. It was all right
with her, and we loaded him up
a bit and then left her to handle
him. But she couldn’t.”
“What do you mean, she
couldn’t?” asked Tom sharply.
The old gentleman cackled
again, with malice and friendly
scorn in his memories. “She
said he called her Nora.” He
must have been fuller than we
thought, he explained. “She
said ‘lf you think I’m going to
be the old fool’s Nora for him,
you’re much mistaken.’ Then
she got tight herself and went
somewhere with Silbert, the
G.M. of the Rock of Ages.”
Tom felt shame for his father,
in a situation of which his father
had probably never even had
any memories after he had
sobered up, and sorrow for his
stiff, dutiful mother, then living
in resigned dedication to her
little son, five hundred miles
away. He had come, on a long-
delayed impulse, seeking infor-
mation about his dad, but the
idea of listening to any more of
it was suddenly unbearable. He
stood up, and the old gentle-
man, who should have died of
alcohol forty years earlier,
urgently filled both their glasses.
“Don’t go,” the old gentle-
man said, his jowls suddenly
sagging from his scrubby mous-
tache as though they were
hooked to it. He added, piti-
fully. “My friends are all dead.
It’s not often I get a chance to
talk to the son of anybody like
old Dick. I remember you when
you were a little boy.”
But Tom had got his hat, and
they had edged towards the door
of the old, roomy, untidy house.
From nowhere the small old
woman was there beside them,
looking fondly at her big,
ancient, broken-down husband
and nervously at Tom,
“He talks too much,” she said
to Tom. “You know what they
were like in the old days on the
goldfields, and he remembers all
the things he shouldn’t. He re-
members things that never hap-
pened and he gets people all
mixed up.”
The old gentleman glared at
her and said “The damn’ woman
thinks her memory’s better than
mine because she knows the
dates people were married and
when their children were born.
She doesn’t remember anything
else.”
“I remember your father was
a fine man,” his wife, said, smil-
ing at Tom and looking as if
she would have liked to pat him
on the head if she could have
reached it.
“That he was,” the old gentle-
man announced loudly into the
night. “A friend worth having,
and a man who was his own
worst enemy.”
“Don’t forget your mother,
boy,” the old woman whispered.
“She was a good woman, and
she had a sad life. Not every-
body has happiness like us.”
Her tiny tough hand was in her
husband’s big fist.
“Women! Bah!” said the
old gentleman, louder than ever
with his whisky. “Are you
married, boy?”
The old gentleman knew, of
course, and Tom didn’t worry
to tell him again. “Thanks,” he
said, with false enthusiasm. “It’s
been nice to spend the evening
with someone from the gold-
fields, Thanks for ithe tea and
—and everything. I’ll come
again some time.”
TJE went blundering off down
the quiet, tree-scented
suburban street wishing he had
never come. The gaunt, whis-
kered old man who had been his
father’s friend in their youth
and their heyday had cut to rib-
bons the public picture of his
father.
Even in those days of walking-
sticks and spreading watch-
chains, of punctilious hat-raising
and bustled curtseys there had
not, it seemed, been dignity in
divorce, or even marriage, or in
the private despairs and gropings
of a successful, respected, useful
man like his dad. And the sharp
eyes of the old gentleman, which
had seen so much, had not seen
it all. Tom’s imagination shrank
back from probing in the pri-
vate moments of his parents.
There was nothing in their con-
duct, in their management of
the most difficult time of their
lives, that would help or guide
him.
But as he made his way out
of the residential street into a
glittering shopping-centre of
tiles and plate-glass and neon-
signs as different as possible
from the painted shelves and
decorative lettering of such
places in his youth, he suddenly
realised what he had learned.
My God, the old man was like
me! he thought. God help him,
he was just like me!
He wandered on more slowly,
wondering if he measured up to
his father in some respects, as
his father measured down to him
in others.
For the moment the troubles
of the present disappeared, and
he was away in the future,
puzzling his head uselessly about
whether he would ever have a
son interested in what he had
done and why ; or, out of all the
transient friends of the business
world, an old mate whose ver-
dict, from any point of view,
would be “He was a fine man.”


Public Notice
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of Victoria made in the action 1950
No. 379 PUBLIC TRUSTEE FOR VIC-
TORIA against IMESON the persons (in
particular the children of SARAH ANN
SAY who married one Imeson) claiming
to be first cousins of Sarah Ann Kay late
of Stawell in Victoria deceased who died
on the 30th March 1942 and who was the
child of George Kay (born in Bedale
Yorkshire the son of Simeon Kay and
Sarah his wife formerly Clough) and his
wife Eliza (formerly Connick —born in
Pembrokeshire Wales the daughter of
Edward Connick and Anna his wife
formerly Thomas) who were married in
Victoria in 1869 or the legal personal
representatives of any of such first cousins
who may have died subsequent to the 30th
March 1942 are by their solicitors on or
before the 16th day of February 1954 to
come in and prove their claims at the
Master’s Office Law Courts William Street
Melbourne or in default thereof they will
be peremptorily excluded from the benefit
of the said Order.
The 23rd day of February 1954. at Eleven
o’clock in the forenoon at the said Office
is appointed for hearing and adjudicating
upon the claims.
Dated the 17th day of August, 1953. —
ERIC S. VANCE. Master. J. ALLAN
ANDERSON & SON, of 472 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Missing Friend
Would any descendants or relatives of
EDWARD RICHTER formerly of Water-
loo, South Australia, please communicate
with the DISTRICT MANAGER, PUBLIC
TRUST OFFICE, Thames, New Zealand.
Export
Opportunitipi
are in
wms
the
AIR!
AC.I4
• England
f There are always fresh markets
for fresh merchandise. Enterprising exporters
are quick to realise that, by QANTAS inter-
national air cargo system to 21 overseas
countries, merchandise moves faster • . .
arrives fresh!
Transit time to destination is cut from weeks
to days. You save on packing and handling
costs —and QANTAS provides comprehensive
insurance cover at surprisingly low rates.
Substantial rebates for bulk consignments
and concession rates on a wide variety of
commodities.
Specialised advice is available from any
QANTAS office or Air Cargo agent.
fg
• Germany
• Italy
• Egypt
• Lebanon
• Pakistan
• India
• Ceylon
• Malaya
• Indonesia
• Borneo
• Hong Kong
• Philippines
• Japan
• Mauritius
• South Africa
• New Guinea
• Fiji
• New Hebrides
• New Caledonia
• Norfolk Is.
Australia s
Overseas
Airline
QANTAS
AIR CARGO
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED (la c. la Q’land), k assoc, with 8.0.A.C. and TEAL
32 YEARS FLYING EXPERIENCE
I khow Bushmen
by W.M.simmons
McKINLEY stopped the
utility at the gates of the
mill-yard and stepped out.
In the well-cut blue
uniform he could have passed
for an R.A.A.F. officer until a
second glance disclosed the big
silver police badge on his cap
and the shiny buttons on his
jacket.
He picked his way along the
track that led through the log-
yard, dodging the water-filled
potholes, and keeping to one of
the high ridges betweeii the
muddy wheel-ruts. Across the
yard, under the high roof of the
mill-shed, the big twin breaking-
down saws screamed as they bit
into a hard messmate butt-log
and the ripper whined thinly as
it picked up revs, to take the
flitch the sawyer was trundling
towards it,
McKinley paused to watch. It
was his first station in a timber-
town and he was still enjoying
the feeling of homecoming—
seeing the big hardwood-logs,
the activity around the mills,
and sniffing the harsh, strong
smell of wet sawdust.
Automatically he noted two
or three strange faces, and the
fact that one of the men stacking
the red, fresh-cut boards near
the landing gantry had slipped
out of sight behind the stack.
McKinley grinned as he con-
tinued on his way to the office.
Old Man Larsen and his
secretary looked up as McKinley
entered the building. The
secretary’s blue eyes flashed a
welcome before she bent her
fair head back to her work.
Larsen paused, cigarette half-
way to his lips, hard grey eyes
boring .at the policeman.
“Don’t you ever knock on
doors?” he barked, challeng-
ingly.
“Sign outside says to enter
without knocking,” McKinley
retorted laconically.
The fair-haired secretary
looked up again and he flashed
her a smile. “Hullo, Beth!” he
said gaily.
She replied quietly “Hullo,
Bob.”
The mill-owner’s eyebrows
contracted to a spiky ledge above
his eyes.
“What’s this! My secretary
on Christian-name terms with
the local policeman!”
Beth looked at him squarely.
“Your secretary chooses her
friends the same as she chooses
her employers—to suit herself,”
she told him calmly.
Larsen subsided and turned his
attention to the grinning police-
man.
“Well! What do you want?”
he asked ungraciously.
“One of your men”
“You would!” Larsen cut in.
“In the six months you’ve been
here you’ve broken up more of
my crews than all the policemen
in the last six years. Why can't
you leave these fellows alone
while they’re working and earn-
ing an honest living?”
McKinley let him finish,
“You’ve said that before. No
doubt you’ll say it again. Have
you a man named Connors on
your books?”
The mill-owner answered
quickly, “No! No one of that
name.” 1
“I didn’t think you had,”
McKinley replied equably.
“He’s under the name of
Brandon.” He slipped a photo-
graph under the old man’s nose.
“This man! ” he snapped.
6 6 ALL right! All right! It’s
Connors!” The old man
waved his hands hopelessly.
“Take him! Take him! The
best faller I’ve had for years.
Hie first I’ve had that can fall
mates with Joe the Swede and
keep up with him.”
“You move me to tears,”
McKinley said. “What camp is
he in?”
“The Twenty-mile on Mount
Terrible.” Larsen eyed the
policeman cunningly. “You
going alone?” he asked.
“Yes. And now.”
The old man brightened.
“That crew up there won’t let
you take him, McKinley,” he
jeered, “and that pretty uniform
will be a mess when you get
back —if you get back.”
McKinley grinned at him.
“Good! I’ll send you the dry-
cleaner’s bill.”
The policeman was a few
paces outside the door when he
heard Beth calling him. She
looked worried as she came out
and put her hand on his arm.
“Bob, you’re not going up
there alone, really, are you?” she
asked unhappily.
“I must,” he told her. “The
senior is down with ’flu and
Graham has his hands full at the
station.”
“Why not wait until someone
could go with you?” she pleaded.
“They’re a terrible crew up
there. Big Jack, the bush boss,
is as bad as the rest of them.
Besides, it will be snowing when
you get up there. There was
heavy sleet and sago snow when
the carters left there this morn-
ing. None of them went back
for a second load.”
McKinley patted her hand.
“Now listen, don’t you worry,
Beth,” he said. “I’ll get Connors
without any trouble from the
rest of the crew. I’m a bush-
man myself—mill-hand, faller —
all those jobs before I joined the
force. There are some things
bushmen don’t like; one is what
I want Connors for.” He tried
to sound facetious. “Good old
psychology is on my side; it’s
my greatest weapon.”
“I’d have more faith in
another policeman, or a big
gun.” Then, knowing that a
woman can meddle only so
much with a man’s sacred job,
she accepted the inevitable and
forced a smile. “You will be
careful, won’t you, Bob?” she
asked gently;
He’d have kissed her, only he
knew that the mill-crew were
interested spectators, so he con-
tented himself with squeezing the
hand on his arm and saying “I’ll
be careful, I promise, if only
because I’m taking you to the
dance tomorrow night.”
TTE made slow progress on the
-*-*■ narrow road that wound up
the timbered slopes of Mount
Terrible. The engine under the
utility’s bonnet was powerful
enough, but tight curves and
deep ruts, punched down by the
heavy timber-jinkers, reduced
his speed. At the Fifteen-mile
he ran into sleet that made heavy
work for the windscreen-wipers
and reduced visibility to yards,
then, as he climbed higher, a
sudden shower of sago snow
rattled against the car’s steel
body, followed by steady, drift-
ing flakes that clung to the leaves
and tree-trunks and settled
quickly on the cold wet road.
It was late dusk when he
reached the straggling, weather-
bleached huts of the logging-
camp. The camp was quiet, but,
down the hill, the windows of the
long mess-room glowed in yellow
squares and the policeman heard
the murmur of voices, the sound
of a laugh and the clinking of
cutlery.
McKinley didn’t hesitate
when he reached the mess-room
door; he threw it open and
stepped inside quickly. Talk
ceased as the hard, whiskered
faces turned to him; then the
silence became real as the light
glinted coldly on his official
silver.
With practised glance he
checked the room. The yellow
ligjbt of the pressure-lamps
showed an unreal tableau—faces
half-ashine, half in shadow —a
sinewy hand poised over the
butter plate a half-potato,
impaled on a fork held motion-
less near a man’s mouth. At the
food-slide Big Jack Jones, the
bush-boss, half-turned, holding
an enamel plate piled high with
thick, steaming stew. At the sink
in the corner, McKinley’s man,
stilled in the act of raising a
plate, stared at him warily.
The policeman crossed the
narrow space in two long strides.
“I*want you, Connors,” he said
bluntly.
Connors, looking down from
his superior height, said flatly
“My name’s Brandon.”
“Brandon or Connors, I still
want you.”
Behind him on the hardwood
floor, McKinley heard the
whisper of Big Jack’s feet,
relaxed in grubby sandshoes.
Then Big Jack spoke, close to
his shoulder, “Off your beat,
ain’t you, copper?”
McKinley stepped back so
that he had both Connors and
Big Jack in view. The bush-boss
stood with a deceptive look of
relaxation, the big plate of stew
held waist-high. The policeman
knew that the stew would be the
first blow in a battle —full in
his face, followed by battering
fists landing before he could feel
the first burning pain of the
steaming, sticky mess.
He spoke quickly and clearly
so that all of them could hear,
“Not so far. Jack. I want this
man for jabbing a broken beer-
bottle in a man’s-face and I’m
taking him. Any objections?”
Connors squared his big
shoulders. “Don’t I get charged
with dropping his three mates
with three punches as well?” he
asked cheekily.
“We’ll tack that on if you
like,” McKinley told him; “but
the broken-bottle charge is
enough for most men.”
He could hear little sounds of
tension easing, rustling through
the room. He felt elated ; he’d
gambled on his knowledge of
these men, and he’d won. It was
time to push home his advan-
tage, and he snapped “Are you
coming quietly or do I have to
convince you?”
Connors, too, felt the change
and he looked about him. Big
Jack was plodding to his place
at the table, the man reaching
for the butter had transferred it
to his plate, and the potato had
disappeared into a whiskery
mouth. He shrugged slightly
and turned to the policeman.
“O.K. No need to get tough.
I’ll come, but I tell you my
name’s Brandon, not Connors.”
He slid his plate into the sink
and walked to the door. Over
(Continued on page 30)


The Polite Call It Canberra
JERRABOMBERA’S
COUNTRY
By GAVIN CASEY
NEAR Canberra in the Aus-
tralian Capital Territory
there is a tiny tributary of
the Molonglo marked on
the maps as Jerrabombera Creek.
The fine, resounding name,
one of the guide-books explains,
originally belonged to an abo.
of the area who resisted the en-
croachment of the white men
with more vigor than most. And
since his day quite a few white
men have suggested, with more
feeling than they do about most
places, that Canberra should be
given back to the abos.
I do not belong to this school
of thought, though during a
total of three years’ residence
in the place I was often tempted
to join it. For instance, during
the most recent couple of years,
when I ran out of cigarettes on
Sunday—as I always do,
wherever I live—and getting
some more at Civic Shopping
Centre took at least 45 minutes.
When my luck was thus out
I’d get off the bus at Civic, and
walk around the block of shops
only to find that none was open.
When that happened I had to
wait a long while for another
bus going in the same direction
as the original one, and go on
through endless residential areas,
past resting blocks of offices, and
across great tracts of almost-
wasteland to Manuka or King-
ston, getting some smokes at
last about an hour and a half
after I left home, and bearing
the emergency packet or two
back to my wife after she had
waited nearly three hours.
To compensate to some extent
for this we had, from a rise near
the office where I worked, a view
for miles across a pleasant valley
that refreshed the soul. One of
my troubles was that the Com-
monwealth Treasury did not pay
me for looking over green valleys
and refreshing my soul, and I
saw much more of a repulsive
typewriter with a Government
number on it, and of the dis-
contented faces of the senior
stenographers the Federal Capi-
tal seems to make out of girls
who were once, no doubt, sweet
little creatures filled with hope.
On the other hand, while not
loathing the place as do some of
its residents, who are distinguish-
able by bitten finger-nails,
haunted eyes, and an aroma of
rum, I am so little in accord with
the substantial number who
“wouldn’t live anywhere else”
that I would rather live almost
anywhere else. My reasons for
this may not be shared by many
others, but they are strong,
despite the fact that I once
thought the inland suburb of
Jervis Bay a pretty good place.
That was after my first year
there, which was 1944, and I
have since worked out why I
liked it sp well then.
Mainly it was because I spent
only about half my time there.
The war was on, and I was a
war-correspondent of sorts. I
was also a roving magazine-
writer whose beat .covered the
whole of Australia as well as
New Guinea. And Canberra
certainly was a wonderful place
to come back to periodically
for home cooking and a few
weeks of peaceful typewriter-
bashing not too far from the
beautiful view. There were
other factors, of course, but the
main one was that I was never
there long enough to get fed-up
with it.
On the second occasion, some
years later, I had advanced a
good deal in my particular De-
partment and had, in fact, be-
come one of those bottlenecks
in the filing-sytem who occupy
many of the more comfortable
and dignified Government
offices. Without being utterly
cynical about the taxpayers’
money I could organise myself
a trip to Sydney or Melbourne
only two or three times a year.
And I ran out of cigarettes every
Sunday.
Another thing which depressed
me was that, as a pannikin-boss,
I was supposed to “show an ex-
ample” not only, to those under
me in my Department but to
every civil servant in the place.
Getting to work on time was no
great hardship, except during the
eight months or so of almost-
polar weather Canberra enjoys,
and X had no overpowering
desire to spend any large part
of the day in pubs or clubs, on
the golf-links or thrashing the
pools below the pretty Cotter
Dam for trout. But it is my
habit to get thirsty by 5 p.m., or
somewhat before, and the earliest
moment I could leave the office
without slinking behind hedges
to avoid risk of getting my De-
partment “talked about” was
5.22.
At the latter hour a parched
team of us used to bolt for the
bus-stop, curse until the 5.25
bus arrived five minutes late, and
take an uncomfortable ten-
minute ride to our club. The
club, under pressure from wives,
threw us all out at 6.30, to go
home to dinner and come back
an hour and a half later if we
wanted to.
This may not sound like worse
hardship than many Australians
survive, ‘though they shouldn’t
have to, but it used to make me
ache to hand the place back to
the heirs of Jerrabombera when
people I had met overseas called
in at my office.
My visitors were mainly jovial
souls who had entertained me
right royally and with complete
scorn for the clock in their
distant home-cities, and when
they came in there would be a
merry session of back-slapping
and ear-bashing. The hangdog
look would creep onto my face
when they started fidgeting and
licking their lips in anticipation.
“Well, old man,” I’d have to
say on such occasions, “where
do you think you’ll be at about
5.30? Can’t get away now, I’m
afraid, but I’d like to pick you
up then and take you to my
club.”
They used to be very under-
standing about it, but I like
better meeting them in Sydney,
where I now live, and where I
can say if the occasion really
justifies it, “To hell with work
for half an hour! Come down
to the corner and we’ll have a
couple,”
The allegedly rigid civil-service
class-system of Canberra never
worried me or my colleagues
much, for we belonged to a
journalistic Department, and
journalists tend to judge people
by their liquor and their laughter
rather than cash, rank or an-
cestry. The two Directors-
General under whom I served
did outrage local conventions
somewhat by having a beer in a
public bar with the boys when-
ever they felt like it, but neither
was sacked for excessive
Bohemianism or conduct un-
worthy of a director-general,
and both even seemed welcome,
when properly attired, in the
fancier places.
Anyway, I don’t think the
caste-system is nearly as power-
ful as the true Canberra-haters
say, and the war-time and post-
war housing shortages have
pretty well ruined any hope the
planners ever had of grouping
people’s homes according to
their incomes. You still grab a
house just wherever you can get
one, except on and around
Mugga Way, where you can only
afford it if you belong to the
real “top brass/’
The last time I lived in Can-
berra my successful house-grab
was a place on the lower slopes
of Mount Ainslie, and one of
my best and oldest friends got
a place at Griffith. The distance
between them would not have
been more than three miles, as
the crow flies, but the Canberra
buses are not crows. Their
routes wriggle like snakes with
broken backs, and when either
of us wanted to visit the other
the call involved from an hour
and a half to two hours of
travelling-time.
So we didn’t see each other
often —not even as often as we
probably would have had we
faced similar journeys in one
of the big cities, because merely
awkward trips become infuriat-
ing when they seem unnecessary,
and when for too much of the
year they have to be made in
freezing cold.
The Canberra enthusiasts,
massaging their frozen noses as
they creep into and out of houses
that lack central-heating, say,
“Ah, but look at the glorious
sunshine we get all winter.”
Thus instructed, I looked, and
saw it for what seemed like
about three hours a day.
It generally began before
lunchtime, but not too much be-
fore, when the morning fog had
fought a losing but stubborn
battle with it. Once it arrived, it
was good, but a thing called
Black Mountain, behind which
the sun dived as early as possible
every afternoon, soon snatched
it away again.
On the days on which there
was no fog the reason was gener-
ally a howling wind coming off
snow-covered mountains and
lowering the temperature by
several degrees. In the face of
the wind, the Canberra-dweller
certainly never saw the sun, be-
cause his nose was practically on
the ground if he wanted to make
progress outdoors and not be
blown into New South Wales.
There are, I understand,
known cases of people simply
letting go, standing upright in
the wind, and being blown into
N. S. Wales with happy smiles
on their faces. But nonethe-
less Canberra is a brave experi-
ment that will probably develop
into a charming city for four
months of the year, one of these
days. And it must have been
fun of a kind in its earliest stages.
when everybody was U P to
knees in red mud and the Aus-
tralian Capital Territory was
supposed to be an area in which
alcoholic drinks were prohibited.
The dry laws caused the invest-
ment of a lot of money in
Queanbeyan, the nearest town in
more civilised N.S.W., which is
only supposed to be dry for 12
hours of the 24. In those times
a good, quick-selling stock for
a Canberra chemist was a few
packets of headache tablets, half
a dozen tins of antiphlogistine,
a card of lipstick, three jars of
vaseline and 200 gross of bottles
of the “tonic wines” of the day.
The tonic wines, say old-timers,
had more fights to the bottle
than methylated spirits flavored
with essence of lemon, and high-
jinks were had in the construc-
tion camps for some memorable
years.
After the God-fearing and
theoretically teetotal builders
came, of course, the civil ser-
vants for whom they had built,
and, though at the time the world
was full of starving Armenians
and victims of the Russian revo-
lution, it would have been hard
to find a less happy crew any-
where. They were mostly from
Melbourne, then still the seat of
Federal government, and they
swapped the Yarra for the
Molonglo only under compul-
sion.
Probably many, as I did some
years later, looked at a map
before moving, and imagined
the stream that saunters through
the Federal Capital as a broad
and noble river, instead of a
body of water about the size of
a Kalgoorlie gutter after a rain-
storm. But go to Canberra they
did, to pioneer most discon-
tentedly the ready-made mud-
and-snow paradise in the moun-
tains.
When tales of the frontier life
trickled back to civilisation the
rest of the Commonwealth
Public Service clung to its Mel-
bourne homes and offices with
increased tenacity. The poli-
ticians enjoying free travel and
ample leisure mostly took a look
at the place—and needed only
one look to lose all their en-
thusiasm for having to spend
much of their time there. The
Federal Capital became the sub-
ject of a lot of bitter, typically
Australian humor, like the
Rabbit-proof Fence that doesn’t
keep the rabbits out of the West-
ralian wheat-belt, and the Chair-
Borne Commandoes of World
War II
However, when a national plan
becomes a joke it can only be
allowed to go so far, and before
some Government got around
to handing the Territory back to
Jerrabombera’s great - grand-
children far too much money
had been spertf there on sewer-
age and electricity and things
for which the simple aboriginals
would have no use whatever.
The only thing to do was occupy
the place in earnest, and some
years after it had become the
Parliamentary headquarters vari-
ous departments took a final,
tough stand with their slaves,
and Canberra really began to
grow.
Its growing-pains, as a place
put where it is largely because
neither Sydney nor Melbourne
could bear the thought of the
other being the Federal Capital,
differ in character but are prob-
ably rather more hurtful than
those of any town or city that
grows more-or-less automatically
because of its proximity to coal,
or gold, or iron, or rich agricul-
tural land or a harbor, and
nowadays, apart from the Heard
Island climate, the public trans-
port, the lack of efficient cen-
tral heating and a couple of
hundred other things, it is not,
in fact, a bad place for families
to live.
Those who encounter snobs
can ignore them, if they have
any sense, and there are as many
decent, good-humored, generous
people as anywhere else. It is a
great place for kids—who all
have good circulation and laugh
at the cold—with vast, open
spaces where they can wander
and have all the small outdoor
adventures of childhood with-
out much chance of getting into
real danger. But some sorts of
people still deteriorate rather
badly there.
Among those who go sour are
the class of senior stenographers
to which I have referred, and
some male civil servants on the
lower rungs who are intelligent
enough to see and hate the limits
beyond which their present
careers cannot take them, but
not vigorous or adventurous
enough to break away and make
new ones. These become “bush-
lawyers” of the most irritating
kind, jealous of whatever small
authority they have, clinging to
their little privileges, obliging
and helping nobody unless the
rule-book says they must, and
generally making life as miser-
able as possible for themselves
and their betters.
Ambitious married women,
childless, or near enough, don’t
do too well in Canberra, either.
They not only play bridge and
drink cocktails with the same
women of their own class all the
time, but the Commonwealth
Gazette tells each and every one
of them all she needs to know
to keep her miserable about the
salary-status and departmental
progress of the husbands of her
“friends.”
In such circles the hate and
jealousy almost strike sparks
from the air, and often once-
loved husbands who think they
are doing all right in the world
have their lives made miserable
by wives convinced they are not
—compared with So-and-so and
So-and-so.
The competitive instinct of
such women, which in most
cities would have little to
nourish it as long as their hus-
bands could afford cars of
about the same price as those of
the neighbors, has plenty to feed
on in Canberra —matters of a
few pounds a year, a title in the
office, an invitation to an Em-
bassy party. Good, honest, hard-
working, decent men are some-
times puzzled at what has gone
wrong with their marriages, and
they are sometimes influenced
to adopt the grievances their
wives pour into their ears.
Among cottage-dwellers in a
frigid climate this does not, per-
haps, lead to as much actual
unfaithfulness as it might else-
where, but given the opportunity
the overambitious lasses who
have become disillusioned with
husbands they consider “stick-
in-the-muds” act as might be
expected when anybody with a
slick line of talk and a slightly
higher level in “the service”
comes along.
But to my mind the people to
whom Canberra currently does
most harm are the young, un-
married ones of both sexes.
Some of the fresh-cheeked, good-
natured girls are, far from their
homes and the normal family
contacts, being slowly and subtly
converted into the senior steno-
graphers who quote the Public
Service Regulations if they are
asked, even in an emergency, to
perform some small duty that
should be the work of a junior
typist, or of a bookkeeper, grade
Z, or anyone else above or be-
low their level.
As the years pass they will
find themselves fighting other
senior stenographers like wild-
cats for the honor of being sec-
retary to a quart-pannikin-boss
rather than a pint-pannikin-boss.
The job won’t mean any extra
salary—just prestige, and occa-
sional trips to places where the
secretary, on her miserable
travelling-allowance, will be able
to live in shabby-gentility at a
fourth-rate boardinghouse, while
her boss stays at one of the best
hotels.
Some of the young men, what-
ever officialdom may say about
it, are being made into plain
drunks.
One of the main differences


n-NEWMobilco
Direct Drive (no belts)
Grain Auger-Bale Elevator
with Dust-Proof, Life-Time
Sealed Transmission
0
The new Mobilco
Sealed transmis-' patents
sion. Complete pending
bevel gear drive,
no belts, no long
shafts, no chains, / A
no power losses. /m
Sealed from dust /
for life. / M
d
mm
MOBILCO gives you Australia's finest Grain Auger. Just check it point
for point. There's Mobilco SEALED TRANSMISSION. There's the new
Mobilco ENGINE SUSPENSION: engine always vertical irrespective of
Auger Angle. MAXIMUM VERTICAL ELEVATIONS from 14 ft. 9 ins. (20
ft. Model) to 31 ft. (42 ft. Model). POSITIVE ACTION CLUTCH with gentle
take-up motion. RATCHET AND SAFETY CATCH WINCH, sure and safe
grip never slips. 4 STROKE ENGINE, 5 or 7 h.p. according to size of Auger.
Fits your Mobilco Wheat
Auger to lift your Bags
and Bales, too ...
BAG and BALE ELEVATOR ATTACHMENT fits your Mobilco
Wheat Auger to lift your Bags and Bales, too . . . You don't
only lift wheat with your Mobilco Auger, you can fit this new
Mobilco Attachment to it and
lift bags and bales and handle
many heavy jobs around the
farm. Yes, Mobilco gives you
two machines in one, which is
a big chance for saving money
on your farm plant.
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE
NOW.
MOBILCO brings
you a complete
range of Augers
from 20 to 42 feet
in length. Basic 20
ft. Model can be
made into 24, 29
or 33 ft. lengths
by adding quick fit
extension pieces.
Top section of
Mobilco Augers
can be removed
and placed on bot-
tom to make long
snout to fit deep
into Silo for
emptying.
GUARANTEED
2 YEARS
■ ■
V » •
mm
m
m
m
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH - AGENTS: ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
between a Canberra working-
men’s hostel and one for the
white-collar lads is that in the
former you can get into a fight
or a good game as well as a
drinking-party, and you can
chase girls without the foreman
giving a damn.
In the white-collar joints you
can read, listen to the radio or
drink. You can, of course, hunt
the females of the species, but
it has to be reasonably discreet,
with a lot of preliminary
manoeuvres, and no vulgar
whistling after them on street-
corners like the black-shirt mob.
Anyway, it’s too cold for street-
corners most of the year, and
just right for rum-and-bonox or
a gallon of fourpenny-dark with
a mate in one of the rabbit-
hutch rooms.
Even the food is better in
what officially rate as the
“lower-class” hostels, because
the young men with futures
ahead of them, and the need to
mind their P’s and Q’s, never
punch a cook on the nose,
whereas a bloke who trims
hedges for a living and doesn’t
like the climate much, either,
might do it at any time.
As far as I’m concerned, I
think Canberra might work up
into something pretty good one
of these days, and that one of
the most sensible things the
present Government has done
is to decide to encourage some
“light industry” in the A.C.T.
Industry of some sort is cer-
tainly needed, and I can’t
imagine any inducements that
would attract heavy industry to
a place so far from anywhere,
and from anything except words,
snow and imported trees.
I don’t know how the “light
industry” has been coming along
lately, but I hope it has been
going well. Some of the best,
most intelligent and hardest-
working people I know are civil
servants in Federal or State
fields, but they were just too
thick in Canberra. If an
official of, say, the Taxation De-
partment gave a party, the liquor
and food would probably be
good and plentiful, his wife a
charming hostess and the guests
good fellows. But about 75 per
cent, of the guests would, like
their host, be taxation officials,
and they would talk about taxa-
tion all night, which sent the
beer sour in the stomachs of
people allergic to taxation, as I
am.
Often it would have been a
relief even to listen to a heavy
captain of light industry run-
ning down the irresponsible
labor force, or bubbling curses
through his whiskers about
excessive taxation.
There have been, and no
doubt still are, occasional
grounds for much more serious
complaint about the way Can-
berra is run. For instance, at
one time while I lived there
virtually the whole staffs of
some departments used to work
overtime regularly a couple of
nights a week. When they got to
their offices there was nothing
to do, but they filled in the time
gloating over local gossip and
discussing their wrongs, and
drew their extra money fort-
nightly.
This sounds like barefaced
robbery of public moneys, but
it was something less than that.
At the time some classes of
Federal employees were simply
so underpaid that their bosses
had to wangle the extra time to
keep them going. But the
manner in which it was wangled
did not increase the self-respect
of the beneficiaries, or decrease
their discontent or their thirsts.
The young man in a big city
can be lonely, but he is sur-
rounded by all sorts of interest-
ing things. In Canberra he has
a magnificent War Museum,
which, for all its excellence and
variety, ceases to be interesting
after a sufficient number of visits.
He has an Institute of Anatomy
in which are enshrined Ned
Kelly’s death-mask, Phar Lap’s
heart and many other curious
things, but not enough to last a
lifetime.
The National Library is good,
too, but probably so far from
where he lives that he needs
blacktrackers and a camel-train
to make an expedition to it.
Though the place is miserably
under-pubbed, the pubs are
closer, and though the drinking-
hours are theoretically restricted
as harshly as in N.S.W., a local
provision for the entertainment
of the guests of hotel-guests
facilitates evasion of the rules.
I have never lived in any
place where there were not lots
of people drinking, either to cele-
brate or to mourn, and it has
always been my habit to join one
party or the other with sympathy
and understanding of what
urged them towards alcohol. But
I had less fun out of parties in
Canberra than anywhere else,
because it seemed to me that
too many of the drinkers were
too young, and were drinking
neither for joy nor sorrow but
from sheer boredom. In that
frame of mind they were better
off than they would have been
on the tonic-wine of the “dry”
days, but not much, and their
whole attitude to life and its
problems would have been most
puzzling to Jerrabombera.
The place sums up as one I
can take or leave alone, though
I’d rather leave it alone. Some
of my best friends have talked
themselves into a state of in-
fatuation with it, but I know of
none who had begun to really
love it before he realised that he
was likely to have to spend his
future there, whatever he felt
about it, or, in some cases, that
his income and local prestige
were both much higher there
than they would be likely to be
somewhere warmer.
We can’t abandon it now, any
more than we can give New
Guinea to somebody else, just
because it’s a difficult sort of a
place, and I feel that, slowly
and painfully, Canberra will
eventually become a gracious
and distinguished city, like
Washington.
Of course, most Americans
would shudder at the thought of
actually living in Washington,
which has a climate in its way
worse than Canberra’s, and all
the magnificent atmosphere of
decadence and cynicism that
attaches itself to congealed
masses of bureaucracy. But
700,000 people do live in Wash-
ington, and their very number
provides much of the infinite
variety of life that is essential
when people decide to congre-
gate in numbers beyond the few
thousand or so who can live
together and remain in reason-
able, comforting touch with the
soil instead of the pavements.
It is too much to hope that
the future Governments which
will control the growing Can-
berra will devote more atten-
tion to the people than they do
to the trees that are the pride
of the place, but even the fancy
foliage from all over the world
hasn’t entirely ruined it; you
don’t have to travel far to get
back into the shade and smell of
the gums, in the peaceful, not-
very-rich sheep-country the Aus-
tralian Capital Territory was
before the politicians got to it.
RELIGIOUS FROG
Round as a scone but baked too crusty hard,
Swims in a flood-filled stump a frog or toad
As blazing orange as a smoky sun
With a double cross on top like on a bun;
Something that might be served at witches’ teas
With cups of black swamp-water sour with fleas.
N.S.W.
ERIC C. ROLLS.


For your
BRIGHT SHEET STEEL
REQUIREMENTS
# Superfill for exterior panels
• Satin for general purposes
• Enamel for vitreous enamelling
and other special purpose grades .
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty.
Limited—General Sales Agents.
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney, and
at Melbourne, Adelaide, Bris-
bane, Fremantle, Wellington,
N.Z.
' S/ iGHr> s L *
«6-5l
SPORTING NOTIONS
Bookmakers at the Tatter-
sail’s Club meeting at Randwick
last Saturday had their best day
for ages. Each of the seven
favorites was beaten, and losses
incurred by punters over Silver
Phantom (6 to 4 on), Carioca
(evens) and Advocate (evens)
must have been colossal. Many
punters were on their way home
long before the last race. Some
Sydney bookmakers operate at
Randwick only. Apparently
they know where results favor
them most.
Until Saturday no winner on
Sydney tracks this season
had been at odds beyond 33 to 1.
The first 50-to-l winner of the
season was Monarch, the first
40-to-l winner Spearby. Royal
Stream and Braestand, both at
long odds, were also unpalatable
to takers of the odds, who saw
a. fast improvement in Royal
Stream’s recent displays.
In the fastest-run seven fur-
longs at Randwick in 11 years
three horses engaged in the
Epsom came through with flying
colors in the Tramway Handi-
cap, though the win by Spearby
over Silver Phantom and High
Law has not been taken too
seriously by rank - and - file
punters on the lookout for the
Epsom winner. They could be
wrong.
Many hold that the Epsom
mile will be too far for Spearby,
but after his grand win at seven
in 1.22 i, which was the smartest
run since the course record of
1.22 was established by Freckles
in 1942, it would seem that
Spearby will get the eight fur-
longs. With the successful light-
weight W. Camer in the saddle,
he isn’t likely to be far from the
lead at any stage of the big mile
to be run on Saturday, October
3.
Camer rode three winners in
all —Spearby, Oversight and
Braestand —and he displayed
both skill and initiative. His
official riding weight is 7.2, at
which he might ride Spearby in
the Epsom. His handling of
Overweight, in particular, was a
masterpiece. And, of course, a
jockey, riding in form and with
every confidence is the one to
follow. At recent meetings
George Moore has fully
endorsed the wisdom of this turf
axiom.
4 • • •
Silver Phantom’s rider on
Saturday, Neville Sell wood, was
maybe a bit anxious to get
away from Triclinium. That
pair were responsible for the
brilliant time, from which it
would appear that in the Epsom
the pace will be clapped on
from the start, and the back-
ward runners will be set a
terrific task.
Silver Phantom lost few
friends by his defeat, because he
carried 8.3 in the Tramway and
drops to 7.10 in the Epsom.
Winner Spearby drops 41b. and
High Law 71b. In the latter’s
case a drop from 8.13 to 8.6
will be most helpful, and at this
stage writer is of opinion that
High Law will be the hardest
horse to beat. His third in the
Tramway was impressive.
Heavily supported from 2 to
1 to even money. Advocate, one
of the strongest fancies for the
Metropolitan, was one of
Saturday’s surprise defeats. In
finishing sixth in the Spring
Handicap he raced much below
expectations, but stayers cannot
be expected to do it at both
ends of a race. Few anticipated
Advocate being leader from
near the mile till the closing
stages, so most were not sur-
prised when, he dropped out.
Advocate drops to 8.11 in the
Metrop., in which riding tactics
are likely to be very different.
Oversight, who downed Ad-
vocate and the rest, is no cer-
tain starter in the Metrop.
Trainer Frank Dalton might be
tempted to have a shot at the
Caulfield Cup, in which Over-
sight has 8.8, but has a furlong
less to travel than in the Metrop.,
in which his weight is 8.7, or
51b. less than he handled with
success on Saturday. Sir Pilot,
a fast-finishing third in the
Spring Handicap, will be much
improved by his run.
Sydney trainer T. J. Smith
secured two early lots at the
Randwick yearling sales in 1951
from the draft of the Aluinn
stud (N.S.W.) and both raced at
Randwick on Saturday, Early
Sun winning his first race, the
Novice jnile-and-a-half, and Sky
Hawk finishing third at even
money to Braestand and Great
World in the Welter. Sky Hawk
had won at his three prior starts.
Early Sun cost 1050gns. as a
yearling and Sky Hawk 650gns.
They almost followed each other
into the sale-ring.
A horse bred like Early Sun
could develop into a high-class
performer, as he comes from
the family which produced Fox-
bridge (imp.), a noted sire in
New Zealand and head of the
“A few months of patience and I'll have the new
fish in, too,"
sires’ list for 11 seasons. Fox-
bridge progeny have won about
£700,000 in stakes. Early Sun,
by Genetout (imp.) from Sundela
(imp.) by Mid-day Sun, and
tracing back to Galliriule, is also
related to famous Pretty Polly
(22 wins and £37,296 in stakes)
and to Donatello 11. A first foal,
the Randwick winner has a most
interesting pedigree.
Boots are becoming fashion-
able with horses, even elastic-
siders, though button-ups are not
yet the order of the day. Two
Randwick winners, Braestand
and Bon Rouge, went out with
the protective gear, the wearing
-of which probably put a few
punters off those horses. While
Bon Rouge came in for fairly
strong backing for the High-
weight, Braestand was a 20-to-l
shot in the Welter. Braestand
had kicked his leg against a
brick wall at his trainer’s
stables ; Bon Rouge, who has
been difficult to train, regularly
wears protective gear because of
trouble in the off-foreleg, which
has been a continuous source of
worry to trainer G. McCahon.
It is intended to accept with
Bon Rouge for the Epsom.
Whether he sees the post will
depend upon his leg condition
on the day. Fit and well he could
give the big race a shaking; he
ran fourth in it last spring.
• • 9 •
Victorian stayer Aldershot,
who downed Dalray and Hydro-
gen in the autumn, started third-
favorite and won Saturday’s
Craiglee Stakes at Flemington.
He took this £l5OO weight-for-
age contest by two lengths over
Wodalla and hot favorite Flying
Halo, Riding of Aldershot
(who’s fancied for the Cups) was
entrusted to stable apprentice B.
Shaw, and maybe that move by
trainer Des Judd brought about
the good price of 11 to 2.
Aldershot has 8.8 in the Caul-
field Cup and 11b. more in the
Melbourne Cup. A six-year-old
horse by imported Enfield from
Little Sister, he has won at two
miles (Adelaide Cup). Mrs. H. G.
Raymond, wife of a V.R.C.
committeeman, is aiming at the
Melbourne Cup with Aldershot;
it is intended to keep the horse
for Flemington and run him at
no other track bar Caulfield in
the Cup at that course on Octo-
ber 17. Even that event might
be bypassed. A few years ago
H. G. Raymond won the Mel-
bourne Cup with outsider Rim-
fire.
Most important event on this
coming Saturday’s Rosehill pro-
gramme will be the Guineas
(2000gns.), run over a mile and
a quarter, and from the running
of which there should be a direct
pointer to the A.J.C. Derby,
though most Sydney racegoers
already believe the classic will
be won by Prince Morvi, who
so easily won the Canterbury
Guineas. Prince Morvi’s chief
dangers in the Rosehill Guineas
may be the Chelmsford Stakes’
winner. Royal Stream, and
Cortauld, who finished a sound
third in the Chelmsford. None
of the others make much appeal,
but if a surprise is in store
Villager could bring it about, as
he was a fast-finishing fourth in
the Canterbury Guineas, and is
expected to do better over the
extra furlong.
The most successful age-
groups since the A.J.C, Epsom
was first run in 1865 have been
the four-year-olds (38 wins), fol-
lowed by the five-year-olds (29
wins). Six-year-olds have won
14 Epsoms, aged horses four and
three-year-olds three, but best of
the last-named compete in the
Derby, run on the same day. In
fact it is so long since a three-
year-old won the Epsom that
even veteran racing men have
mostly forgotten the horse’s
name. It was Dare Devil
(1892). Best of this year’s five-
year-old contestants should be
Tarien, High Law, Spearby and
Triclinium, while four-year-olds
expected to make a bold bid
include Plato and Silver Phan-
tom. Carioca, popular for both
the Epsom and the Metropolitan,
especially the latter, is a six-
year-old. Biggest field to con-
test the Epsom was 38 in Ale-
conner’s year (1913); fastest
time for the mile, 1.35|, was
run by High Caste in 1940.
* * *
Coilingwood, with a last-
quarter burst that flattened
Geelong, won the V.F.L. semi-
final on Saturday by 13.12 to
8.12, and thus go into the final
against the winner of next Satur-
day’s Geelong-Footscray match.
Just over 70,000 saw Geelong
break away to a quick lead with
their fast, open style, but it was
only a points lead, and thence to
three-quarter time it yjas a hard,
slugging game, ’Wood con-
stantly bustled Geelong, trying
to kill their open work, and suc-
ceeded in keeping close and
wearing them down. In the last
quarter stamina told when, with
Geelong run almost to a stand-
still, the Magpies shot through
and scored 6.4 to 1.0.
* * *
An Australian Rugby Union
team has returned from Fiji, loud
in praise of the hospitality of
the place (the tour here by the
crowd - pleasing, fight - hearted
Fijians gave a terrific fillip to the
game in Australia). Another
R.U. team is in Ceylon, last
week winning its fourth game in
a row, against the Ceylon
Barbarians, 30-3,
Orange Free State beat the
Wallabies, 23-13. It was even
pegging (8-all) up till half-time.
Next Saturday, in the Third
Test, the Wallabies have a
chance to prove that the Second
Test wasn’t a fluke. But, even if
they don’t, they have done better
than any other Rugby Union
team has against the Springboks
since the war. Remarkable,
when one considers the few first-
grade teams from which selection
is made: with the emphasis
usually—and not always fairly—
on N.S.W. Now if it were a
national code, as in South
Africa!
Unbeaten until then in the
Rugby Union comp., Eastern
Suburbs went down with a crash,
23-0, before University at North
Sydney on Saturday. Easts
couldn’t seem to get going, and,
in the published opinion of their
skipper, Perc. Newton, “played
like a lot of old women.”
Basically, their weakness was
with their half, and University
had the services of a brilliant
half, Ellis, and some fiery
forwards to harass the pivot of
Easts’ backline movements.
With good service from the
scrums, five-eighth Tooth and
the University centres Best and
James couldn’t do a thing wrong.
On the day, it is doubtful
whether the return of Uni-
versity’s Wallaby centres would
have improved matters. Had
Easts scored early, it might have
been a more even match.
Every time a touring side
goes away, other players crop
up, showing that there is no
dearth of talent in the code.
University forwards Lloyd,
Harvey and Thor nett were very
impressive on Saturday; the
last, particularly, the best long-
term prospect seen for some
time.
• • • i
Eastern Suburbs and Manly
meet in the final next Saturday-
the winners to meet University
in the grand final.
♦ * *
Last year in the English
“Cricketers’ Magazine” Bill
Bowes claimed that the televising
of cricket was increasing % the
game’s popularity. Bradman has
lately remarked that TV can do
much to show people just how
bright a game cricket is—
provided, he added, that the
cricket being televised is bright.
After last year’s Board of
Control meeting some brickbats
flew, particularly from N.S.W.,
because Test selector Chappie
Dwyer was dropped, leaving
N.S.W. without a selector. No
fireworks came of this year’s
gathering. Most important
matter dealt with was the pro-
jected sending of a team to the
West Indies in 1955. Bill Brown
(Q.) has resigned from the selec-
tion panel, but, as there is no
international cricket this year,
tfiere will most likely be no
selectors appointed.
The board also considered a
church protest about the playing,
early in the Australians’ tour of
England, of a one-day Sunday
game. The board announced its
opposition to organised Sunday
matches. The Australian team
suffered a material loss in this
game —the injury to Bill
Johnston, which put him out ot
action for a great part of the
tour.
“Mid-on”: Hutton is referred
to as England’s first professional
cricket captain. In this century
he is, and so represents a break
from tradition. But some of the
early English teams to come to
Australia were led by profes-
sionals —the first (1862) had a
professional skipper (H. H.
Stephenson). Other professionals
to bring teams were James Lilly-
white, Shrewsbury and Shaw.
The men under them were all
professionals. Hutton’s elevens
have included amateurs.


Established IMS
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON*
OSUIJUVAIV
rttmi
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXVI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
. Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
World Communism's Dividends
The Reds .
and Pacific Relations
By “EK DUM”
IT is often asked why the
Soviet Union finds it worth
while to carry on a world
Communist movement and
whether it pays dividends. To
the average citizen the results
are negligible—a ratbag Com-
munist party whose candidates
lose their deposits at elections;
a few parlor-pinks engaged in
propaganda but viewed with
mild scorn, and harmless; a
“world-peace” movement
these seem to be the main
results. But they are not.
Behind the fafade there is a
deep and growing underground,
burrowing insidiously, few of its
members acknowledged Com-
munists, but always working for
Communism, often directly
under the supervision of agents
of the Soviet Union. This sort
of thing goes on everywhere in
greater or less degree; but in
English-speaking countries the
technique is practised most, be-
cause in them the traitor has a
freedom of action which reaches
almost to the point of complete
licence to do anything to wreck
the Government and the polity
short of actual shooting.
The bodies in which the
Soviet agencies become strongest
are the international organisa-
tions. It is not so long since it
was discovered that the State De-
partment of the United States
was honeycombed with Alger
Hisses and others of his type ;
the United Nations within the
present year has found itself to
be much in the same state, and
U.N.R.R.A. suffered from the
same disease.
These revelations are usually
fingerposted by a death or two
of key-men. The method of
“suicide” or “accident” is uni-
form. The men who die are
always associated with the under-
ground, or seem to be, agents,
who if they were prepared to
testify, might split the whole
arrangement wide open, if the
outward appearances have a
kernel of truth. They are alone.
They fall out a window —in the
same strange way in which Mr.
Masaryk allegedly destroyed
himself in Prague. A Com-
munist campaign immediately is
born suggesting the reason;
They have been driven to felo
de se by “Red-baiters.”
+ -I-
Two high officials of the
United States Government
perished in this manner when
their evidence would have been
of vital importance in the Hiss
inquiry and in that into the
Institute of Pacific Relations,
and the United Nations lost a
high-ranking legal adviser in the
same manner. This needs to be
recorded only as showing the
background and the grim im-
plications of what goes on.
As an example of expert Com-
munist infiltration, the story of
the Institute of Pacific Relations
is one to bring home both Com-
munist method and the result.
The I.P.R. was founded in
1925 at a conference in Hono-
lulu of “religious leaders,
scholars and businessmen from
various countries of the Pacific
area who... . realised the need
for greater knowledge and
frank discussion of the prob-
lems of Asia and the West.” The
impetus from which the insti-
tute was born came from the
Y.M.C.A. In the first 25 years
of its existence it had an average
revenue of $lOO,OOO a year.
Its composition was made
up of 10 national councils —
American, Australian, N.Z.,
Canadian, French, Pacific,
Indian, Pakistan, Philippine, to-
gether with the Royal Institute
of International Affairs in
Great Britain. Its overall pro-
gramme was directed by a Pacific
Council on which each national
institute was represented to co-
operate in research, publications
and conferences. It was ad-
ministered by a small inter-
national secretariat working in
New York under direction of
the council. In the early 1930’s
it acquired Soviet Union and
Chinese branches.
In 1950 the Internal Security
Sub-committee of the Senate
Judiciary Committee of the
United States took posses-
sion of “certain back-files of the
institute,” which were found,
after some difficulty, on the pri-
vate farm of E. C. Carter, a
trustee. It used them as a pre-
liminary basis for study of the
institute and its associations.
It then spent seven months
examining 66 witnesses and
20,000 documents. It examined
a Vice-President of the United
States, war-time chiefs of intel-
ligence staffs at the highest level,
two former high officials of the
Soviet Union Government who
had fled their country, the
former director of a special
investigation bureau of the
Japanese Government. The
staff examined publications
issued by the institute and others
of which it had made regular
use, with a view to discovering
whether the institute was “in-
fluenced or controlled by agents
of the Communist world con-
spiracy” and “to what extent the
institute had been used to work
Communist agents into posi-
tions in which they could influ-
ence the United States Govern-
ment and its policy.”
The sub-committee found that
48 per cent, of the funds of the
institute had come from the
Carnegie Corporation and the
Rockefeller Foundation, 40 per
cent, from the national coun-
cils, and the rest from large
corporations and other private
donors, most them conservatives
of the deepest dye.
The result of the investigation
showed clearly why the Ameri-
can people are apt to become a
little hysterical about the dangers
of Communism. If it were dis-
covered that Government de-
partments at Canberra were run
by people who were acting as
direct Soviet agents, that some
of the Commonwealth’s chief
chief economic advisers were
Soviet agents, that some of
the key-men at the National
University were in the same
position, that leading officials
were refusing to give evidence
before royal commissions
on the ground that they
might incriminate themselves,
and if one of Mr. Menzies’s
principal advisers at an inter-
national conference turned
out to be leader of the
Soviet Union spy-group and a
perjurer to boot —if any of these
incredible things were to happen
—Australians also might go a
little off-balance.
After a year’s inquiry, the
American Senate Sub-committee
found that the I.P.R. had been
“considered by the American
Communist party and by Soviet
officials as an instrument of
Communist policy, propaganda
and military intelligence”; that
“it disseminated and sought to
popularise false information, in-
cluding information from Soviet
and Communist sources” ; that
“members of the small core of
officials and staff members who
controlled the I.P.R. were either
Communist or pro-Communist,”
though the majority of the mem-
bers of the I.P.R. had not the
slightest idea of what was going
on, the “effective leadership
often seeking to deceive them.”
The majority, like easy-
going majorities, had “never
made the slightest attempt to
investigate the repeated charges
over a long period of years”
that the body had become Com-
munist-infiltrated. Many “emin-
ent and respectable persons”
lent their names to the I.P.R.
without knowing much about it,
and “were by design used as a
respectable and impressive
screen for the activities of the
I.P.R. inner core and as a de-
fence when such activities came
under scrutiny.”
+ +
The sub-committee further
found that, beginning in the
1930’5, Professor Owen Latti-
more had been “a conscious
articulate instrument of the
Soviet conspiracy,” yet at the
same time had been-one of the
American Government’s most
trusted advisers. For a time, like
at least one other of the same
I.P.R. vintage, he had a desk at
the White House.
The sub-committee found
that “effective leadership” of the
I.P.R. had “by the end of 1934
established and implemented an
official connection with G. N.
Voitinski, chief of the Far
Eastern Division of the Com-
munist International”; that,
after the establishment of a
Soviet Union Council of the
1.P.R., leaders of the American
Council of the institute “sought
and maintained working re-
lationships with Soviet diplo-
mats and officials.”
It concluded that the Ameri-
can staff of the 1.P.R., though
fully apprised that the Soviet
Council of the I.P.R. was, in
fact, an arm of the Soviet
Foreign Office, was “simul-
taneously and secretly instructed
to preserve the ‘fiction’ that the
Soviet Council was independ-
ent.” Yet “a group of persons
operating within and about the
I.P.R. exerted a substantial
influence on the United States
Far Eastern policy,” which they
sought to orientate to suit
Russian aims.
The testimony on which all
this was based was voluminous
and convincing enough. Ex-
cept for the leading officials
whose Communist connections
and associations were proved,
and who maintained to the end
that their body was just a
scholarly bunch of students
moved by curiosity and good-
will, almost all authoritative
witnesses were unanimous about
what was going on.
Indeed, whether they were
unanimous or not did not matter,
since the sub-committee dug up
more than 100 actual members
of the Communist party operat-
ing at the highest levels in the
1.P.R., some of them under
aliases. It dug up 14 prominent
civil servants and others who
refused testimony on the grounds
of possible self-incrimirfation.
A number of others, many of
them well-known Communists.
could not be investigated be-
cause they were out of the coun-
try, and some more —including
the two officials of the United
States who fell out of windows
—were dead. Another hundred
or so were shown to have Com-
munist affiliations, without being
members of the party. It needed
nine pages of close type to list
the “Red” associations of 87 of
them who included such well-
known characters as Hiss, and
the prominent Communists
Philip Jaffe, Agnes Smedley,
Andrew Roth and Ella Winter.
Included was Comrade Wil-
liam L. Holland, who came from
Australia in 1929 to take up a
minor research position at head-
quarters and who rose to be
general-secretary, editor of
“Pacific Affairs” and executive
vice-chairman. In his spare
monients Mr. Holland was affili-
ated* with “Amerasia,” a Soviet
Union propaganda journal, some
of whose promoters were suc-
cessfully prosecuted by the U.S.
Government, and “China To-
day,” one of Mao Tsz-tung’s
organs. In 1933, near the be-
ginning of his career, he was
discovered writing playfully to
Miss Lucy Knox, who had been
transferred from the I.P.R.’s
Honolulu office to the staff of
the Soviet Government’s official
weekly “Moscow News,” then
edited by the notorious Borodin,
a bloodthirsty ruffian, chief
engineer of the first Chinese
Communist revolution and the
father of the Canton massacres
of 1927:
We are immensely interested at
the office in your pleasant remarks
about Borodin, so much so that I am
asked by Owen Baltimore to in-
quire whether you could discuss with
Borodin the possibility of his writing
an article for us on some aspects of
his work in the Chinese revolution,
or on present-day opinion in the
Soviet Union on the development of
Communism in China. ...We are
really crazy to get something from
Borodin... .Joe Barnes [i.e., the
secretary of the American Council of
the I.P.E.] expects to leave for Mos-
cow in January to spend four
months or so there.
Barnes was identified by
several persons as a member of
the Communist party (but denied
it), and the committee found
that he was a collaborator of
Soviet Union Intelligence—also
denied.
The sub-committee declared
that it was Mr. Holland who
“first tried to put the insti-
tute into contact with the
Soviet Union.” And it re-
ported that “Amerasia,” with
which he was affiliated, was on
the evidence of Louis Budenz
(formerly a member of the polit-
bureau of the Communist Party
of America) “organised under
complete Communist auspices,
its first issue submitted to the
politbureau before publication.”
Budenz swore that there was “a
joint Communist cell for both
the I.P.R. and ‘Amerasia,’
operated by Frederick Vander-
bilt Field,” a prominent Ameri-
can Communist and “reporting
to the politbureau.” And
“China To-day” was much in the
same category.
A few other official records
are worth examining. Frederick
V. Field was for a period sec-
retary to the American Council
of the 1.P.R., a member of the
executive and a trustee. He was
before the sub-committee:
Identified as a member of the Com-
munist party... .he collaborated with
agents of Soviet Intelligence appa-
ratus as shown by sworn testimony;
refused to answer questions on
grounds of self-incrimination; made
one or more trips to Communist
territory; wrote for official publi-
cations of the Communist party or
for a Communist Government or for
pro-Communist Press services. He
was a subject of action by the U.S.
Government on a loyalty charge. He
was affiliated with “Amerasia,”
“Friends of the Chinese People,”
“China Today,” “Russian War Be-
lief,” “Soviet Russia Today” and
other Communist-sponsored bodies
and publications and was signet of
a declaration attacking the United
States for “suppressing the Chinese
masses and fomenting civil wars
amongst them.”
There were also Alger Hiss,
who was a trustee of the insti-
tute, and William Johnstone,
director of the institute’s Wash-
ington bureau, who was affili-
ated with “Amerasia” and the
Chinese Communist agencies in
U.S. There was Saionji, secre-
tary of the Japanese Council,
who was convicted of acting
as agent for Soviet Union Intel-
ligence services. There were
Katherine Terrill, executive'
secretary of the institute, affili-
ated to a dozen fellow-traveller
organisations, and Mary Van
Kleeck, who was out of the
country and who could not be
examined. She was a member
of the American Council of the
Institute and one of its writers
who was identified as a Com-
munist-party member and affili-
ated with the American-Russian
Institute and the Communist-
organised Committee for a
Democratic Far Eastern Policy.
She signed a statement defend-
ing the Soviet iJnion as “a con-
sistent bulwark against war and
aggression.”
The sub-committee named
Harriet L. Moore (alias Gelfan),
acting-executive-secretary and
chairman of the nominating
committee of the I.P.R., as a
member of the Communist party
who refused to testify on grounds
of possible self-incrimination,
who made trips to Soviet Union
territory, who wrote for Soviet
publications and was affiliated
with several Communist-spon-
sored publications and societies.
Mr. Hotsumi Ozaki, member
of the Japanese I.P.R. Council,
was shot by the Japanese for his
part in a plot organised by the
Soviet Embassy.
Michael Greenberg, manag-
ing-editor of the official organ
“Pacific Affairs,” was shown as
having collaborated with the
agents of Soviet Intelligence and
having numerous Communist-
type affiliations. He was one of
the many associated with the
institute who had been officially
acted against, and he was out of
the country. Another assistant
to the secretary-general, Harriet
Levine Chi, was identified as a
Communist-party member and
refused to testify on grounds of
self-incrimination.
An associate-editor of “Pacific
Affairs,” T. A. Bisson (alias
Frederick Spencer), was stated
to have been a Communist,
was acted against by the U.S.,
abused the United States for
attacking the Chinese masses and
was tied up with the usual round
half-dozen of fellow-traveller
and Communist - organised
bodies.
In fact, the whole institute
headquarters seems at one time
or another to have been honey-
combed from centre to edges
with active Communist agents.
And the testimony of those who
should have known fully sup-
ported the inferences to be
drawn from its personnel.
Professor Kenneth Colegrove,
{Continued on page 30)


SUBSCRIPTION RATES
fm HDVUKI)
♦
"THE BULLETIN"
£l/16/- for 12 months
18/6 for 6
9/6 for 3 „
THE "WOMAN'S MIRROR"
£l/6/- for 12 months
13/- for 6 „
7/- for 3 „
These prices include postage, and apply
whether the subscription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” Office or to any newsagent
in Australia.
♦
DO NOT PAY MORE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
a
JAC
Circular Charts for aM types
of Recording Instrument
tor any (lus of MitKu»wy
or Equipment
METER CHARTS • Sp«cU*7
iam~r *•* •' Q-—-
O , SIiLUVAN%L&
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
DELAYS DOG OR DOOM E.D.C.
Even in the U.S., where
optimism regarding the Euro-
pean Defence Community has
run far higher than in Britain,
or in Europe itself, they are
beginning to have their doubts.
Despite the German ratifica-
tion of the plan, New York
“Herald Tribune,” for one, has
to report that realisation is still
a long way off ; “some observers,
indeed, believe that it is already
dead.” Even the Congress stipu-
lation that something like
$1,000,000,000 for European
defence was not to be handed
over except to the E.D.C. as a
going concern failed to bring
action.
Reporting in the “Herald
Tribune” from Germany,
Stewart Alsop states that, be-
cause American policy in Europe
depends squarely on the passage
of the plan for a European army
by the European Parliaments, the
orders from Washington to Bonn
are “not to discuss or even think
about the awful possibility that
E.D.C. might not be ratified.”
So all American officials, from
High Commissioner Conant
down, “are manfully performing
this compulsory act of faith.”
As a result the American
officials “are behaving like the
three monkeys who see no evil,
hear no evil, speak no evil. There
is plenty of evil to be seen and
heard and spoken, since inde-
pendent observers in Europe are
almost unanimously convinced
that E.D.C. is moribund at the
least, and quite probably dead.
But American officials keep
repeating ‘E.D.C. will pass,’ like
some medieval incantation.”
“New York Times,” one of the
most optimistic barrackers
throughout, has been driven to
seizing on Dutch ratification as
a useful step. It still has hope:
“The mere projection of the
European Defence Community
was a supreme act of faith, and
if the obstacles to its achieve-
ment have been more in the fore-
front of late there is no reason
as yet to assume that they are
insurmountable.
“Indeed, the Defence Com-
munity, with its essential German
military contribution, would
have been functioning long ago
were it not for the French poli-
tical malaise which holds back
both France and Europe. For
other countries have been wait-
ing for France to take the lead,
in the realisation that without
France there can be neither a
European Army nor a united
Europe.
“Once the other countries have
ratified the treaty it seems impos-
sible that France alone should
hold out and wreck her own
project. For the alternatives are
either the creation of a separate
German Army under Nato or a
new European disintegration
that could only spell disaster.”
Edinburgh “Scotsman,” never
as hostile to the plan as some
other British publications, has
commented that the E.D.C.
Treaty is regarded in France as
an alternative to agreement with
Russia, and if talks are held with
Moscow it will be “more
than ever doubtful if it will ever
be ratified.” British questioning
of the whole scheme is fairly well
represented by London “Daily
Mail,” looking with astonish-
ment at the record so far of
German resurgence;
“What a transformation has
been wrought since 1945! Then,
Germany lay prostrate and her
conquerors swore that she must
never threaten the peace again.
She would be totally disarmed
and occupied.
“If anyone had predicted that
in five years some of the vic-
torious Powers would not only
consent to German rearmament
but would actually be urging the
jackboots to drill again he would
have been thought mad. Yet it
is happening... .E.D.C. was
Western Europe’s reply to an
aggressive Russia, and Western
Germany was reluctantly
brought in as a regrettable neces-
sity. At first she was to be under
the absolute control of the other
members. Then she was to have
12 separate divisions. At this
point France became so alarmed
that she has refused to ratify the
E.D.C. treaties.
“President Eisenhower’s idea
that a united Germany, with all
her extra power, should come
into E.D.C. is enough to terrify
France, and to give sombre
thought to the rest of us. It is
hard to imagine Germany con-
tent “with a subordinate role in a
mixed European force. She
would want to be top dog—but
only for a time. For soon she
would outgrow E.D.C., and per-
haps demand membership in
the Atlantic Alliance. She
would point out that Britain is
in Nato and has declined to join
the smaller E.D.C.
“And how could Russia be
expected to agree to the whole
of Germany joining the Western
group? She would already have
lost control of her Eastern
sector, and now she would find
it potentially lined up against
her.
“Not that Russia would have
any cause to complain. She
wants a united Germany under
the close control of the Four
Powers, but it is too late for that.
She could have had it in 1945 if
she had not broken faith with
her allies. It was Russia’s
betrayal of the common victory
which led to the bedevilment of
Europe, the split between East
and West, the formation of Nato
and E.D.C., and the proposal to
rearm Germany. If she wants a
settlement now she must listen
to the Western Powers.
“But the nations of Europe
can never forget that the
Teutonic fury has 1 twice" within
a lifetime brought blood and
tears to the world. Though the
peaceful rehabilitation of
Germany is desirable, her
military revival could be fraught
with peril for mankind.”
London “Economist,” not a
little amused at what it calls the
—London “News Chronicle”
GETTING DOWN TO THE BOTTOM OF IT ALL
“samovar school of thinking”—
that is, all those urgently press-
ing for a “nice cup of tea and
a game of poker between Sir
Winston Churchill and the
appropriate representatives of the
Kremlin” —sees these as want-
ing to give up most of the cards
before ever the game starts, the
E.D.C. card among them:
“One says that there is a new
spirit abroad in Europe ; another
that all is fluid and that we must
therefore review all our policies ;
another that the European
Defence Community is dead as
mutton; another that the
Americans will pull out of
Europe anyhow and should leave
its inhabitants to go their own
way.
“So far as these statements
have any truth at all they repre-
sent not freshness of thought or
boldness of vision but a drifting-
back to familiar and normal
things. The really new spirit in
Europe is the one that is trying
to form a new society of nations
there, which would include the
E.D.C. and the coal-steel pool.
There has never been a majority
opinion in Western Europe
favoring these projects: the
creative spirit and the determina-
tion to prevent war shown in
them have been the work of a
few men backed by a minority
of voters.
“Those who now claim that
plans for European institutions
and an Atlantic community must
be dropped from American and
British foreign policy because
Europe does not want them are
using an argument they might
have used at any time in the last
three years. It would be braver
and more honest to say that they
want to appease the Russians by
ceasing to do the things that they
want us not to do and by letting
Europe drop back into apathy.
But that would not read so well
in the columns of the Sunday
newspapers.”
Judging by a fair sampling of
the British Press that isn’t con-
fined merely to the Sunday news-
papers either, nor even to the
Press. Apparently there is
hardly anything a large body of
opinion wouldn’t give away to
get back on to a happy basis
with Russia.
New U.S. Outlook
Looking over the U.S.
Congress proceedings since
Eisenhower and the Republicans
came in, the Washington office
of London “Times” has noted
that, while “starry-eyed inter-
nationalism” is out, there is no
return to actual isolationism.
There is, however, a new
nationalism, which, it is inferred,
could not have been ignored by
whoever had won the last
elections.
In the spirit of that new
nationalism the present Congress
insists that American power and
wealth in terms of dollars and
military aid sent abroad should
warrant the United States having
the dominant say in the counsels
of the free world ; that will apply
now to Korea.
An expression of the new
nationalism was the significant
U.S. Senate majority that urged
the early end of foreign aid as it
is now dispensed, and de-
manded that it should become a
direct instrument of American
foreign policy under the
immediate control of the State
Department rather than, as it has
been in the past, an instrument
for economic and military
rehabilitation pure and simple.
But, “While this new mood of
nationalism will lead and
indeed has already led —to dif-
ferences of opinion over the
short-term directions and timings
of free-world diplomacy, it is
still basically as international in
its purpose as ever were Mr.
Truman or Mr. Acheson. The
difference is not in basic aims but
in methods. The fact that the
Republican party is determined
to bring greater pressure to bear
on America’s allies proves this
very point. Their passionate and
even quarrelsome attitude about
what the allies should do is the
measure of the Republican
awareness albeit resentful
awareness —of how essential
allies are to the security of the
United States.”
Support for J. Bull
However far apart U.S. and
British policy may still be in the
Far East, British journals have
noted with some relief signs that
Uncle Sam has come over a bit
to J. Bull’s side in the Middle
East, a quarter where he’d
hitherto been un-co-operative, to
say the least.
One quarter where this has
brought results has been Persia,
while in Egypt its effect has
been that fierce - sounding
bombast suddenly turned to
comparative calm, leaving
Neguib ready to “talk with
Churchill in London,” and the
small-boy Arabs in Ismailia and
thereabouts uncertain whether
to shine boots or shout abuse.
London “Time and Tide”
has ascribed the change in
Egypt to British and American
representatives having “reached
a fairly general level of under-
standing” on Middle East
matters generally.
Suez Settlement
As London “Spectator” sees
it, both sides in the Suez negoti-
ations are now more anxious for
a settlement and wiser about the
way to achieve it than at any
point since the Egyptians de-
nounced the treaty in 1951.
Britain has publicly stated that
it does not wish to continue
paying £5O million a year for the
privilege of keeping troops in
Ismailia. Egypt is equally clear
that it is in its own interests that
the base should be maintained.
The British realise that the
base will be perfectly useless un-
less it is efficiently maintained
for an assured period, and unless
access to it in all, and not merely
in some, of the likely contin-
gencies is guaranteed;
“To obtain these conditions
will require not merely arrange-
ments on paper for the entry and
control of foreign technicians
but a belief in the willingness of
the Egyptian regime to respect
those arrangements.”
Against the general idea of
Egypt’s leaders as British-hating
firebrands, a London “Observer”
correspondent pictures them as
not only men of “unquestionable
integrity” but as having a defi-
nite leaning to Britain: “Most
of them speak English almost
perfectly; many had a British
or British-type education and
professional training; their
political and social ideals are
shot through with British con-
ceptions of fair play, social
justice and the Welfare State.
In their reform plans they have
drawn heavily on British ex-
amples. One is impelled inevit-
ably to the conclusion that if
confidence can be restored by a
settlement of the Canal Zone
dispute, the men of the Neguib
regime are—paradoxical though
it may sound to anyone who has
not been here [in Cairo] —the


S
SOMETHING
ABOUT,
Fill from the
Red, White & Blue Pump at
INDEPENDENT
SERVICE STATION
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIE
(Marketers in Australia for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
S LT
best friends that Britain and the
West generally can have in
Egypt.”
Jap-China Trade
One argument advanced for
declaring Communist China
near enough to lilywhite to be
accommodated with U.N.O.
membership and other recogni-
tion is that Japan can’t hope to
survive without the “vast”
Chinese market blocked-out by
U.S. obstinacy in refusing to
admit that Peking is in the
saddle.
Whatever merit there may be
in other arguments for recogni-
tion, “New York Times” holds
that this ground is a bit shaky.
The argument, it points out,
presupposes that Red China
would be willing and ready to
establish large-scale trade rela-
tions with Japan on terms not
unfavorable to the Japanese—
and there is no ground for the
assumption:
“The ‘vast’ Chinese market
presupposes large" Chinese pur-
chasing-power. It has not been
evident in the past. Actually,
China’s relation to the total
Japanese economy, with the ex-
ception of Manchuria, which
Japan annexed, has been rela-
tively unimportant.
“Let us take the years 1935
and 1936 for examination. They
represent the peak in Japanese-
Chinese trade —and it came be-
fore the Marco Polo Bridge in-
vasion—and can therefore not
be regarded as suspect. Man-
churia is not included in these
figures for the obvious reason
that it was at that time a Japanese
province. This, however, does
not destroy the value of the
evidence, since Manchuria’s
trade is now committed to the
Soviet Union. It is hardly con-
ceivable that the Kremlin would
tolerate the movement of Man-
churia’s strategic raw materials
to Japan to build another
arsenal in the Far East.
“In those two peak-years all
Japanese exports to China
amounted to 308,579,000 yen.
This represented about 15 per
cent, of China’s imports, a per-
centage roughly equivalent to
the place of Britain or the
United States. But Japan’s total
exports in those two years were
5.192.048.000 yen. Thus Japan
depended upon China for some-
thing less than 6 per cent, of her
overseas market. Not exactly
‘vast.’
“In that same two-year period
Japan shipped to the United
States raw silk to the value of
762.859.000 yen. This actually
constituted about two and a half
times the total Japanese exports
to China. As a matter of fact
and record, moreover, these silk
exports to the United States
amounted to more than the total
trade between Japan and China,
import and export, by
175.625.000 yen.
“There is always the assump-
tion that 450,000,000 persons
constitute a great potential mar-
ket that needs only to be tapped.
It is a great market only if there
are ability and willingness to
buy. The Chinese Communist
reorganisation of China’s
economy has certainly not in-
creased purchasing-power. Red
China is a poor credit risk at
best.”
Jerusalem!
Maybe U.N.O., having killed
a Chinaman or two, must expect
a turn of bad luck.
It is certainly finding the going
tough, not only jn its recent
experience in Korea. One of its
pet hobbies, Israel, seems to be
behaving a little ungratefully,
too.
It’s only a few years since the
U.N.O. galaxy of nations de-
cided that Jerusalem should be
an international city. But
Israel lately decided to move its
foreign office there from Tel
Aviv, facing the U.N.O. nations
with the choice of moving their
embassies and legations also, or
else trying to do business at 50-
miles range. Jerusalem has de
facto become the capital.
Thus, as London “Economist”
points out, Israel has ignored
the wishes of the U.N.O. Gov-
ernments and furnished the
Arabs with further proof that
U.N.O. itself is useless “and that
nothing short of force will make
Israel do anything it does not
wish to do”:
“By tacit consent of the
Powers the idea of an interna-
tional Jerusalem is therefore a
dead-letter. The city remains
indefinitely divided by the great
scar of ruined houses, weeds and
rusty barbed-wire that runs
through its centre. On either
side two sets of Jerusalemites,
living without intercommunica-
tion, can see one another moving
up and down the streets. Up-to-
date, few cross the line, or want
to, except U.N. officials and
members of Christian missions.”
The last nail, suggests the
“Economist,” “in the already-
sealed coffin of United Nations’
hopes.”
Speed
London “Economist” has
listed improvements in time
taken to travel to various points
from London on regular runs:
1900 1953
By Sea By Air
Calcutta .. 35 days 181 hours
Port Said .. 14 days hours
Singapore , .. 23 days 22 hours
New York .. 7 days 17 hours
Sydney .. 40 days 3 days
The record-breakers will, of
course, soon have all these
figures out of date.
Dragnet Digest
Europe’s Fears. —As viewed
by “Manchester Guardian”:
“The reason why so much of
Europe feels tepid about Wash-
ington’s policies is that America,
putting first things first, talks
almost exclusively of German
reunification and of the German
contribution to defence. If it
would recognise that Europe
fears Germany, even if irration-
ally, as well as Russia, Europe
would cease to have many of its
fears of Washington.”
Lowering Prices. —London
“Daily Mail” sees promise in the
fall: “What a
refreshing change to find that
prices can fall! Let us hope
that the days of rigid control
and regulation, accompanied by
interminable inflation, are over,
and that we are moving into a
saner era.”
U.S. Aid to Britain. —Britain
has now been receiving American
economic aid more or less con-
tinuously, for eight years. There
has been a cut, but (as London
“Financial Times” notes) even
in the year ahead the addition of
unpaid past allocations will bring
the total to close on $4OO
million for the year.
A Gift of Wheat. —The U.S.
gift of a million tons of wheat
to Pakistan has been assessed by
London “Economist” as having
averted an “otherwise inevitable
catastrophe” and transformed the
whole Pakistan economic out-
look: “Not only has America’s
great act of generosity freed
Pakistan’s all too slender reserves
of foreign exchange from being
earmarked mainly for further
imports of food-grains; it will
also call into being a huge fund
for development, consisting of
the rupee sale proceeds of the
wheatin Pakistan. The Pakistan
Government has been able to
decide that it can now safely go
ahead with all approved develop-
ment projects. The next few
years will therefore witness a
marked spurt in industrial and
agricultural progress, and a high
level of business activity and
employment.”
Asian Shadow. London
“Daily Telegraph” correspondent
Frank Oliver, who has had long
experience in the Far East; “It
is impossible to travel anywhere
in the Far East today without
sensing the shadow of Red China
creeping nearer.”
Asset to the West. —Reporting
in New York “Herald Tribune”
from Vienna, leading U.S. world-
affairs commentator Stewart
Alsop states that since whole
battalions of the German satellite
army refused to leave their
barracks in the June uprisings,
there have been strong indica-
tions that the Kremlin has aban-
doned its plans for building an
East German army on a serious
scale: Some experts, he says,
believe that the satellites —especi-
—New York “Herald Tribune”
THE BITS FIT—IF THEY’D NAIL ’EM!
ally East Germany, Czecho-
slovakia and Poland, in that
order —no longer provide a
secure base for a Soviet attack
on the West: “This may well be
over-optimistic, but it is surely
sensible to suppose that the
seething hatred in the satellites
represents a real potential
military asset to the West.”
Communism Flop. “New
York Times” writer, noting that
outside of Russia, and perhaps
China, the Soviet system is a
failure: “Communist economics
does not work where it is not
enforced by years of coercion
and terror. The satellite States
were once the granary of
Europe. Whatever else they
suffered, the people ate well and
made their living by exporting
food. Now they exist on a near-
starvation level.”
Moscow Enigma. —A London
“Financial Times” writer gives
the game up: “The one thing
that is certain about Russian
affairs is that nobody is an
expert on them. When John
Milton reproved his contem-
poraries for idly speculating on
‘What the Swede intend and
what the French,’ at least they
had some facts to go on. From
modern Russia there are no
facts.”
No More Korea’s. —An
example, from Cincinnati
“Post,” of what can be taken as
widely representative American
reaction after Korea: “Had our
forces been defeated, it would
have been considered an
American defeat, because the
United States had contributed
90 per cent, of the United
Nations forces. The United
States should not again accept
responsibility without authority
under such circumstances, be-
cause it is unfair to the men in
the forces, as well as jeopardis-
ing national prestige.”
Old Hands, Very. —London
“News Chronicle”: “Not count-
ing the Prime Minister himself
(for he is a scintillating excep-
tion to nearly all the rules) nine
out of the 16 members of the
present British Cabinet are men
of 60 or more.” The implica-
tion, is that they’re too old for
the job ; some of them “are put-
ting up less than adequate per-
formances.”
Satellite Survey. Stewart
Alsop, summing-up in a New •
York “Herald Tribune” article
on the Soviet satellites: “The
picture is everywhere the same —
total political failure and
remarkable industrial achieve-
ment.”
Bacon. —Copenhagen haggling
ended in Britain agreeing to take
(London “Times” report) 230,000
tons of Danish bacon in the
current year, then 200,000 tons
in each of the next two years, at
£237 10s. a ton. This reduced
price (from £256 10s.) “is in
keeping with the growth of
world food-supplies— to which
falling prices of grain and
sugar, for example, and the rice
accumulations in Burma bear
witness.” The British Ministry
of Food pays £390 a ton for
British bacon. It’s retailed at the
same price as the Danish, but
“many shopkeepers find that
people prefer the Danish.”
History in the Streets. —Noted
by London “Time and Tide”:
“No one who has spent much
time in France can have failed
to observe the virtual unanimity
with which the municipal
councillors of French cities,
towns and villages have elected
to name one street rue du Quat-
orze Juillet, Street of the Four-
teenth of July. The municipal
authorities of the United States
—perhaps because they have a
general preference for numerals
rather than names when it
comes to indicating thorough-
fares —have not, as far as can
be recalled, endowed any
American city with a Fourth
of July Street. The Republics
of South America, on the other
hand, which achieved their in-
dependence with varying de-
grees of effort during the past
150 years, can point to streets
named after almost every date
on the calendar.”


m
JSi*~
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.t27B.ia
his shoulder he asked “Mind if
I change and get my gear from
the hut?”
Y\7HILE Connors changed
McKinley studied him.
Here was a case for a
psychologist if ever there was
one. Connors could have done
well; he had all that was neces-
sary—rugged good looks, ability
and vanity. He was a peerless
faller/knew every phase of mill-
ing and logging, and had col-
lected championship-sashes in
class - company chopping-
matches. The clothes into which
changed were well-kept and
-pressed, and it was typical of
the man that when he slipped
into the laundered white shirt he
wore the neck open to display
the sinewy, brown column of his
throat. Just the basher-streak
kept him down.
McKinley pondered it. Some-
where along the line Connors’s
nature had been twisted. Now,
instead of jailing him, if his
vanity could be played upon to
keep him straight and give his
ability full rein . . .
Connors snapped shut the
case, took a last glance in the
mirror and said “I’m ready.”
McKinley the policeman took
over from McKinley the
psychologist. At the utility he
seated his prisoner, set the suit-
case between his legs, slipped the
handcuffs through the handle
and snapped them on Connors’s
wrists.
“Just in case you get silly
ideas,” he explained,
£kmnors protested disgustedly.
“Ah! What sort of a dill do
you think I am!”
“I don’t know,” McKinley
told him firmly, “but I want to
concentrate on my driving.”
He needed all his concentra-
tion, It was snowing steadily.
The foglights were good, but
not good enough to carry more
than fourteen or fifteen feet
beyond the bumpers ; after that
a vague, impenetrable wall kept
moving before him.
McKinley forgot his prisoner ;
forgot time ; his mind and body
concentrated on piloting the
utility around the curves. The
snow was about four inches
deep, flat and featureless. To
his left the bank was some sort
of a guide, but the deep table-
drain was a trap. On the right
there were places where a car
might roll a hundred feet before
coming to rest against the trees.
All the curves looked alike; the
landmarks were hidden by the
darkness outside the narrow
radius of light; and it may have
been five miles or ten miles from
the camp when the ute slid
around a curve and McKinley
saw the tree across the road.
He braked gently and felt the
vehicle slide. He straightened it
up and halted within a few feet
of the obstacle.
It was not a big tree —a snow-
gum that the weight of snow had
dragged from the rain-loosened
soil, its spreading crown, a
tangly of curved branches, lay
half-way over the bank, and,
putting his shoulder to the
trunk, McKinley could feel it
lift; then spring back. He con-
sidered freeing Connors to help
him ; then decided against it and
walked back to get his axe.
As the policeman fished the
axe from under the seat
Connors said jeeringly “Going
to do a bit of work for a
change! Why don’t you ask an
axeman to cut it for you?”
“That’s what I’m doing,” Mc-
Kinley replied pleasantly as he
turned back to the tree.
Axe in hand, he studied the
problem, and decided that a
couple of branches cut away on
the lower side might free the tree
sufficiently to let him roll it
away. He hopped on to the
trunk, felt it sway, then in an
instant it rolled ; his feet slipped,
and he landed astride the trunk,
one leg thrust deep in the
branches. Before he had time to
think he was slammed on his
back in the snow, dazed and
breathless.
TI7HEN he recovered, he found
*’ that he was held down.
One leg, gripped in a fork, was
pinned back against his body.
Already the weight was almost
unbearable and the leg was
becoming numb. From the
utility Connors was shouting
“What’s the matter! Are you
going to leave me here to
freeze?”
There was no sense in both of
them freezing, McKinley
thought. He mustered his
strength and shouted “If you can
get out, come here and I’ll give
you the keys!”
While Connors bumped and
shuffled, the policeman con-
sidered his own position. A try
at shoving back the tree proved
futile, and sent sharp pains stab-
bing along his pinned leg. He
listened to Connors cursing as he
manoeuvred to open the utility
door. Free, Connors would be
the master of the situation; he
could leave the policeman until
he was found, or he could go for
help. Either way, McKinley
faced some hours in the snow
that already felt chill and damp
through his clothes. His leg was
jammed close into the fork and
could only be freed by rolling
back the tree or cutting the limb
between its junction and his leg.
A superb axeman with steel
nerves might succeed without
crippling him permanently.
Connors,, now shambling
through the snow, was his only
chance and Connors hated
policemen in general and Mc-
Kinley in particular. McKinley
grinned wryly. Your brilliant
insight into bushmen’s
psychology got you into this, he
thought; now use it to get you
out.
Connors loomed over him—a
grotesque silhouette against the
bright background of the utility’s
Tights. Fumbling in his pocket,
McKinley found his keys. “All
right, Connors! ” he called. “I’ll
throw the keys over to you.
Better watch where they fall,”
he warned.
He tossed the keys over the
tree, and heard the soft splash as
they landed in the snow. While
Connors fumbled in the snow
McKinley made his decision. He
would play Connors into freeing
him, hlgcause even a badly gashed
leg was better than lying for
hours in the snow.
Across the tree Connors stood
up, rubbing his hands and look-
ing down at McKinley. There
was sadistic pleasure in his voice
when he said “You’re in a nice
jam jow, McKinley. Your
pretty blue uniform won’t get
you out of this lot.”
The policeman tried to sound
brisk and authoritative. “I
know all that,” he replied.
“Obviously you’ll make a run
for it. When you get to the
One-mile settlement, what about
waking someone to come up
here and get me out? You’ll still
have plenty of time for a get-
away.”
Connors pretended to con-
sider. “Yes, I might even do
that,” he said.
He jumped over the tree and
studied the policeman’s predica-
ment. “If I had a decent axe,”
he said at last, “I might even cut
you free. What would it be
worth?”
McKinley kept calm.
“Nothing,” he replied crisply.
“I’m not in a position to bargain
with you, either as a policeman
or as a man trapped in the
snow.” /
Then he made his
“Anyway,” he continued !u YYio
man on earth could cut me uree
without taking half my leg. I’ll
chance pneumonia and frost-
bite rather than be crippled for
life.”
6 6\fOU know, McKinley, I
1 think you’ve got guts.”
Connors sounded surprised. He
fished around and got the police-
man’s axe out of the snow. “Not
a bad sort of a kelly you’ve got
here,” he said, hefting it. He
drew the blade through his
thumb and forefinger, then ran
his thumb along the edge.
“Why,” he exclaimed, “this thing
is in racing-nick. Who sharpened
it for you?” .
“I did it myself,” McKinley
told him, “I was a faller before
I joined the force.”
Connors sneered. “Too tough
for you, eh?” He stuck the axe
in the tree and said decisively
“I’ll get your torch from the ute
and switch out the lights; they
make too much shadow. You
focus the torch right on the
spot; and hold it steady if you
value your leg.”
Faced with the practical issue,
McKinley felt sudden fear, and
there was panic in his voice as
he exclaimed sharply “Don’t be
a fool, Connors! If you want to
help me, get down the road as
fast as jnu can.”
Connors did not reply. He
walked back to the utility,
switched off the lights and came
back shining the torch on the
policeman. “Do you hold the
torch or do I work in the dark?”
he asked curtly.
McKinley felt perspiration
itching his body as Connors,
methodically, cut the notches for
his feet. He mounted the tree,
settled his feet, swung the axe
experimentally and looked down
at McKinley. “This is where you
see a real chopping exhibition,
McKinley,” he said. “I don’t
think you’ll ever see as good
again.”
McKinley made no answer.
He was fighting every nerve in
his body to hold the torch
steady. Then he saw the blade
flash, and felt the tree tremble
under the blow. The axe rose
and fell again, true and square,
following the thin wet line of the
cut in the bark.
Quite suddenly the first chip
flew, landing on McKinley's
chest. A mighty effort of will-
power kept him from flinching,
and he kept the beam on the
target as the chips flew faster
and the wide vee of the cut
narrowed down to the last chip,
and closer to the policeman’s
leg.
Connors worked as coolly and
easily as if he were lopping a
branch in the ordinary course of
a day’s work. At last he paused.
He didn’t speak. He stepped to
one side and settled his feet care-
fully on the solid trunk.
McKinley braced himself.
This was the preliminary to the
final blow. He wanted to scream
“Stop!”
He bit on his lip, and then
the axe was descending for the
last cut. McKinley heard the
dull sound of the blow, then the
big limb was sliding towards his
body and his numbed, icy leg
was dangling free.
A/TcKINLEY did not get to the
dance the following night.
He was in bed resting his
strained, aching muscles. Beth
sat beside him ; and, because he
wanted to reassure her, he
boasted a little.
“I know bushmen,” he was
saying. “They play rough but
they don’t like back-alley tricks.
As soon as they knew Connors
was wanted for the broken-
bottle business lie was out on
his own. When the tree caught
me I reckoned that Connors had
the nerve and skill to cut me
free, and too much vanity to
injure me in the process.”
Beth stroked his head, “But
it was risky, Bob,” he said.
“A little,” he adnlitted.
Then, because he had had a
close call and so wanted,
urgently, the answer to one big
question, he said slowly “A
policeman has to take risks. A
policeman’s wife has to learn
not to worry about them.”
She met his glance squarely.
“I’ll learn, Bob,” she said
simply, and, bending down, she
kissed him.
of North Western University,
who joined in the early
’thirties, said that “behind the
front” the institute was “noth-
ing else than a propaganda
organisation supporting a Com-
munist line.”
Louis Budenz, the “reformed”
Communist who once had con-
trolled the “Daily Worker” for
the party, said he had once heard
the I.P.R. described in a polit-
bureau meeting by the chief
organiser of Soviet culture in
the U.S.A., Trachtenburg, as
“the little Red schoolhouse for
teaching certain people in Wash-
ington how to think with the
Soviet Union in the Far East.”
Major-General Charles Wil-
loughby, General MacArthur’s
Chief of Intelligence in the Far
East, declared that the “conclu-
sion had been arrived at” that
the Japanese Council of the
I.P.R. “was used as a spy-ring
for Russian Communists and
the Russian Red Army.”
Alexander Barmine, a refugee
Russian brigadier-general, late
of the Red Army, said that he
had been told by Soviet Union
Intelligence officers that I.P.R.
was “a cover-shop for military-
intelligence work in the Pacific
area.”
Finally Igor Bogolepov, a
former counsellor in the Russian
Foreign Office, had his say:
It was my impression... .when I
was in the Soviet Union, that the
Soviet Intelligence was more in-
terested not in the United States of
America, but in Japan and other
countries which were in direct con-
flict with the Soviet Union. It was
also my impression that the UP-®-
was merely used by Soviet Intelli-
gence in order tp get, via America,
the information on Japan und China
and Great Britain.
However, Mr. W. L. Holland,
the erstwhile-Australian general-
secretary, declared the institute
“non-partisan” ; held that it
“never tried to influence the
actions of Governments,” and
that the “character of its work
was determined not by Com-
munists but by the hundreds of
eminent citizens and scholars
who have taken an active part
in the institute’s work.” Yet
the sub-committee uncovered a
letter in which Mr. Holland
proposed “Here’s to tl\e day’
when “China and Japan have be-
come dependent territories of
the Soviet Union,”
It would be interesting to
know how many organisations
there are in Australia—how
many union-leaderships not obvi-
ously Communist, how many
societies for the advancement of
this or that—likely to produce a
similar assay on close analysis.
INTELLIGENTSIA
We huddle and cling together like shipwrecked men
On a raft, beset by the surly enemy sea,
Who prop one another’s sagging spirits with vain
Praises of others’ courage and constancy;
Not one of us, left alone, could ever face
The charging gales, the buffets of hostile wind,
The horror of grey, unending, lifeless space
That weighs so heavy upon the sunken mind.
Dull eyes, thick skulls, and understandings dense
Stand, an impenetrable bristling fence.
Between our brilliant selves, our spirits fine,
And them, the gross uncomprehending swine.
Bah! you poor philistines, you call us freaks,
Because we huddle and hide in clubs and cliques,
Because we go in strange habiliments
And have outgrown the Bible and the saints.
N.Z.
AENOLD WALL.


TILLEY . Supreme 100%
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
BRITISH
MADE
mmM-
IS;
m
-&S
Men like this TILLEY Table Lamp because it is an
Independent Unit, it is Economic — only pints of Kero for
12 hours’ light — it is safe —it cannot spill—it is a quality job.
Lqdies like it because it is graceful and adds a dignity to any
home. Why not buy one?
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. MODEL TLI06
Manufacturer’s Representatives: (“THE queen”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.I.
While import re-
strictions remain
yon may have
difficulty in ob-
taining TII1I1EY
products.
The new E.YSAGHT
500 BUSHEL GRAIN SILO
saves you money and worry
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the
mm
m ■
m
Prefabricated from heavy
gauge galvanized iron.
Rodent and weatherproof.
Simple to erect.
Permanent asset.
Generous depreciation
allowance for taxation.
Steel floor is part of each
500 Bushel Silo Set.
Ready to erect on Earth
Ring or other Base installed
by the Owner.
Write for Data Sheet
Foundations and Bases.
m
on
mmm*
» * £
mm
A
*u*x
\
PRICE £7O (AT WORKS)
PRICES OF OTHER LYSAGHT SILOS
1,000 Bushel £llB (AT WORKS)
Enjoy freedom from
• HIGH BAG COSTS
• RATS AHD MICE
• DETERIORATION OF
GRAIN IN BAGS
2.000 .. _ £lB2 ..
„ £236 if
3.500 „ £259 „
4.500 „ £306 „ „
Lysaght Augers are avail-
able for all LYSAGHT
SILOS. Vertical Sets
range from £75/13/-.
Write for further information and Agents' Names to: —
LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LIMITED. NEWCASTLE
OR JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., CAPITAL CITUS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
The granddaughter of the late
Benjamin Beard Evers, of the “Old
Warfe Inn,’’ Sowerby Bridge, West
Riding, Yorkshire, England, would
like to hear from relatives of her
grandfather who are living in Aus-
tralia. (Write direct to Mrs. Jenny
Birch, 39 Queen’s Park-road, Har-
borne, Birmingham, 32, England.)
The niece of the above Benjamin
Beard Evers and great-granddaughter
of the late Jabez Evers of Sowerby
Bridge would also like to hear from
Australian relatives. (Write direct to
Miss Dallas Woodcock, 11 Forsyth-
road, Jesmond, Newcastle-on-Tyne,
England.)
Pictures of N.S.W. buildings such
as Captain Piper’s house, Point Piper;
Prisoners’ Barracks, Hyde Park; St.
Mathew’s Church, Windsor; Old
Government House, Parramatta;
Macarthur’s house, Camden Park;
Hartley Vale Court House, Hartley;
Nobby’s Lighthouse, Newcastle; and
Goulburn, Bathurst and Berrima jails.
—5574.
To buy books written by Arthur
Hoey Davis (“Steele Rudd”). —5573.
To buy Such Is Life by “Tom
Collins” and Old Bush Songs, edited
by “Banjo” Paterson.—ss72.
information Sought
Recipe for shoemakers’ burnishing-
ink —black and brown?
Black: Carnanba wax, five parts;
Japanese wax, five parts; paraffin wax,
five parts; oil-of-turpentine, 50 parts;
lampblack, one part; wine-black, two
parts. Melt the wax and paraffin, add
the turpentine, then the two blacks.
When the color is evenly mixed pour
while still warm into suitable tins.
Brown: Omit the two blacks and use
similar quantities of Bismarck or Van-
dyke brown. Beeswax may be used,
but it is not so hard and durable as
the blend recommended.
* * * ♦
Method of poisoning green trees?
Arsenic-pentoxide has been found
to be the best poisoning agent. It is
usually sold in a granulated form
ready to mix with cold water, and is
used at the rate of 31b. to sgal. of
water. Arsenate-of-soda can also be
purchased ready to mix with cold
water, and is used at the rate of lib.
(of 80 p.c. strength) to 2gal. of water.
The best time to apply is when the
trees are passing through the dor-
mant stage—this varies in different
districts, but usually commences
about February. “Frill” the trees
(making a circle of oblique downward
cuts into the trunk) and pour in the
poison at the rate of about one quart
to * tree of 4ft. diameter. Keep
children and stock away from the tree.
* * * *
(1) Meaning and correct spelling /o f
slang term “boloney”? Is it Aus-
tralian slang ? (2) Is there such a
word as “caloney” ?
(1) “Boloney” is American slang,
dating, m its meaning of “nonsense,”
from about 1895, according to Eric
** P ro bably derives from
the Bologna sausage, from which also
comes the word “polony,” a sausage.
With that derivation, the more cor-
rect form would appear to be
“baloney.” However, H. L. Mencken,
in The American Language, spells it
baloney and balony, but not boloney.
Mencken gives other slang-meanings
lor baloney—-an automobile tyre (used
by hijackers in the American prohibi-
tsoll days); an electric cable (in
American shipbuilding lingo); and, as
a Bologna or baloney, a bull of low
grade, fit only for sausage (by pack-
inghouse-workers). With its signifi-
cance of “nonsense,” Sidney J.
Baker’s The Australian Language in-
cludes it in “a group of American-
isms that has wide currency in Aus-
tralia.” (2) Can find no trace of the
word.
♦ » ♦ *
What is neon ?
Neon is a chemical element and
one of the constituents of the atmos-
phere, of which it forms about one
part in 100,000 by volume. It was
discovered in 1898 by Sir W. Ramsay
and Prof. M. W. Travers. Neon is
used in gas-filled electric lamps, and
for advertisement purposes in electric
discharge tubes, in which a variety
of shapes colors is possible.
Neon discharge tubes are also used
in aerodrome beacons, because of the
fog-penetrating powers of the light
they produce. Chemically neon is
completely inert; it forms a member
of the group of inactive gases.
* * * *
Some particulars about the None-
such Press, London?
In 1923 Francis and Vera Meynell
and David Garnett started the None-
such Press, and the edition of the
Love Poems of John Donne proved
the herald of far-reaching changes
both in publishing technique and
typographic style. The objects of the
new press were defined in its first
prospectus as follows: “To choose
and make books according to a
triple ideal; significance of subject,
beauty of format, and moderation of
price.” The Nonesuch Press by 1949
had produced some 80 limited editions
and 37 unlimited. Perhaps the most
outstanding limited editions are the
seven-volumes edition of Shakspeare
and the 23-volumes edition of
Dickens, for in these great works
especially Sir Francis Meynell dis-
plays his skill both as a typographer
and designer. Of the unlimited edi-
tions the Nonesuch Library (also
known ,as the Compendious series)
is particularly important. These
books are uniform in size, though
not in detail, and have had much
influence upon publishing methods.
Brief Answers
F.T.: The word “quack” is an
abbreviation of quacksalver, an un-
qualified medical practitioner, a seller
of nostrums. Quack is a representa-
tion of the sound made by the duck,
and conveys the idea of voluble self-
advertisement ; “salver” means healer.
The term corresponds to the French
charlatan, from the Italian ciarlare,
to chatter R.D.: Petty officers in
the Royal Navy are analogous to the
non-commissioned officers in the
Army, a chief petty officer ranking
with a sergeant-major and a petty
officer with a sergeant. In the execu-
tive and engineering branches they
rise through the ranks by merit and
examination and are responsible to
their superior officers for the proper
care of several portions of the ship,
of groups of men and machinery. All
artisan ratings automatically acquire
the rate of petty officer as soon as
they are qualified in their respective
sphere M.F.: Louis Stone, the
author of Jonah and Betty Wayside,
died on September 24, 1935 E.T.:
Deaf mutes are trained at two
Roman Catholic institutions in N. S.
Wales, one at Waratah for girls and
the other at Castle Hill for boys.
There is a Roman Catholic school
for blind children at Homebush
R.W.J.: The lines are from the poem
“The Old Camp Oven” by Edward
Dyson. The poem is not in The
Bulletin Reciter, but in The Bulletin
Book of Humorous Verse and Recita-
tions. .. .H.S.: Dan Kelly: Outlaw;
Three Years With Thunderbolt and
The Outlaws of Weddin Range, all
by Ambrose Pratt and all published
by the N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Sydney.
R.J.K.: The Federal Govern-
ment, on February 5, 1953, voted
£50,000 to the United Kingdom
Government for the relief of sufferers
from floods, and a similar sum to
the Netherlands, Government for a
like purpose F.T.H.; Senator J.
E. Marriott (Liberal) was chosen by
the Tasmanian Parliament to replace
the late Senator Chamberlain. He
will hold office only until the next
Senate election T. 0.: Plymstock
is a parish and village of Devonshire,
England, on the Catwater and
Plymouth Sound, three miles south-
east of Plymouth. It has a population
of 9000 J.S.D.: Kate Baker, the
authoress, was 92 on April 23, 1953.
P.D.: Elections for the N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly were held on
February 14, 1953, following its dis-
solution on January 14, and resulted
in the return of the Cahill Labor
Government. State of the parties is
Labor 56, Independent Labor 1,
Liberal-Country Party, 37 L.C.8.:
Florence Nightingale was born in
Florence, Italy, on May 12, 1820, and
died in London on August 13, 1910,
in her 91st year. In 1907 she received
the Order of Merit from King Edward
VII, being the first woman to receive
that honor... .W.H.G.: Population
of Norfolk Island at June 30, 1952,
was 1176... .S.L.: Die Royal Nether-
lands Navy frigate Van Kinsbergen
(2095 tons) entered dock at the
R. dockyard, Williamstown (Vic.)
on February 16, 1953. She remained
for about three weeks D.M.: The
S. Zoological and Acclimatisation
Society came into existence in 1878,
and the gardens which it controls
were constructed shortly afterwards.
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
L.T.A.: We seem to remember a
Henry Lawson story along the same
lines J.S.: There is no room in a
short story for a detailed physical
description of every character
W.R.: Promising; shape-them better
and come again K.L.: In nine
pages your hero “sank another
noggin” 13 times, and “gazed reflec-
tively into his glass” 16 times
C. 8.: An interesting example of a
ghost story that was popular 50 years
ago V.S.: Try writing policy-
speeches instead of fiction E.G.R.:
Since we started in 1880 we have
received every possible variation of
that racing-yarn R. 8.: Thanks,
but we’ll try to struggle on without
your masterpieces... .8.P.H.: You
know little about cattle-duffing and
less about writing... ,E.H,: We have
met your bullocky before D.J.R..:
It was an ambitious attempt, far
beyond your capacity... .R.J.T.: We
have had our fill of talking-dogs....
C.M.A.: Desert-island romance too
sugary and impossible a morsel
W.M.: You have been reading too
many stories about vampires S.T.:
You’re so far off our beat that you
would need a compass to find it....
M. 8.: A good effort. Let’s have
some more.... T.F.F.: The Reli-
gious Editor ordered the choirmaster
off the premises G.C.: “The Man
from Boggabri” failed to get past
the doorkeeper... .H.S.W.; One is
an echo of P. G. Wodehouse, (the other
of W. W. Jacobs P.C.: Take that
sentimental swagman away and toss
him in the nearest billabong
A. : “Purple Patches” too self-
consciously “arty” L.C.: Cut a
little, we can use it A.N.S.:
No G.G.: “Aboriginalities” verse
of that standard is always wel-
come R.J.L.: You appear to
be more interested in describing
the drinks consumed than in getting
on with the story D. 8.: Sorry, but
it will not help you to “balance the
budget”... .T.K.: We quickly hustled
the three mad sisters out of the office.
S.M.: The old man doesn’t ring
true G.B’.L.: All you do is to
string a lot of puns together
S.C.R.: So it was “hard to write.”
It was also hard to read... .S.T.E.:
We found the old boy a little too
rollicking for our taste. P.H.C.:
All that effort was not worth the
unreal trick-ending K.S.: Your
pirates will not hoist the Jolly Roger
at 252 George-street L.R.: Have
you ever been to India? F.W.R.:
Not wanting “an Australian conden-
sation of Galsworthy’s ‘The Apple
Tree’” J.T.: It finished in the
basket P.C.M,: Couldn’t decide
whether it was a treatise on orchid-
growing or a short story H.P.W.:
It was a struggle to read that long,
ponderous and involved effort....
B. : No more redheads like that
one, please 5.8.: The umbrella
story is only worth a paragraph of
any paper’s space P.D.: Sorry,
but it has neither “suspense” nor
“emotional interest”.... W.C.8.: Not
Bulletin material.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.


■M:
■ - . .... HM *';l
SURROUND
YOUR FIRESIDE
WITH BEAUTY
AT SURPRISINGLY 4
LOW COST
DESIGN: No. 8; HEIGHT: 3'7f"i
WIDTH: RRICE (at works):
Add fee finishing touch to your living-room.
Instal a ceramic glazed buff-white Terra Cotta
Surround; designs are readily available for open
and gas fires and “Kosi”, “Wonderheat and
"Warmray" stoves.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, or write to
Wunderlich Limited, Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney, for
illustrated booklet of designs and fixing details.
I
Fireplace surrounds
OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
Chemistry Serving Primary Industry
I
✓'A
o?
118181 lflf«
DDT
FIELD CROP.
SPRAY
MIXES EASILY WITH WATER
HULINB
DDT FIELD CROP SPRAY FOR LINSEED,
OATS, BARLEY. LUCERNE, SORGHUM
Manufactured by Australia’s largest producers of DDT.
TAUBMANS CHEMICALS PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE', BRISBANE. AbELAIDE, PERTH
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
HYGEIA DISSOIVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage u»
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage U
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 yean.
Write lor free illustrated pamphlet.
■DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W,), 82 Qoulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Disaoivenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 460 Collins St.,
Melbourne. „ .
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle
St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. »c-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth. .
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty, Ltd., 450 Collins St,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston. „ _ . , , .
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectm
Sales and Services. .
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers. Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
■
PRICE
£75
Weight
76lbs.
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Fluorosis of Sheep
“Archaps”: J. M. Harvey, a
biochemist of Queensland
Department of Agriculture, has
published in “Queensland
Journal of Agricultural Science”
his conclusions from a study of
chronic endemic fluorosis of
sheep. The disease, he says, has
now been reported from prac-
tically every country in the
world, but has been recognised
in Queensland only since about
1940.
From a study of the fluorine
content of bones, teeth and
organs of lambs, Harvey con-
cludes that it is possible to breed
with safety to the lamb on water
containing up to 10 parts per
million of fluorine, but this
practice would not be recom-
mended for young breeding
ewes (up to two years), as a
fluorine level of 10 p.p.m. would
be harmful. As no appreciable
amount of fluorine was trans-
mitted through the milk there
was no need to wean early.
Removal of ewe and lamb to
fluorine-free water at six to
eight weeks was advisable be-
cause at that age lambs began to
drink appreciable quantities of
water. After weaning, lambs
should be held either on surface
water or on bore water contain-
ing less than 2 p.p.m.f.
Observations in Western
Queensland had shown that the
water consumption of a grown
sheep did not exceed sgal. per
week, while its food consump-
tion might exceed 31b. of dry
matter daily. As a guide, it
might be assumed that the
animal’s intake of dry matter
was approximately half the
weight of water drunk, conse-
quently plants containing
4 p.p.m.f, must be viewed with
suspicion, as the fluorine they
supplied was comparable with
that of water containing
2 p.p.m.f.
In his general conclusions
Harvey reports, inter alia, that
supplementary feeding of
protein, lime and/or phosphate
does not mitigate or delay the
onset of fluorosis in sheep using
water containing either 5 or 10
p.p.m.f. as their sole drinking
supply. Up to 10 p.p.m.f. in the
“The time has come for us I' part , Jess. You're too slow.”
drinking water affected wool-
production in sheep only insofar
as the dental damage limits food
consumption. There is no
appreciable accumulation of
fluorine in any edible portion of
sheep which have been for two
years on water containing
10 p.p.m.f., hence there is no
danger to humans in the con-
sumption of such mutton.
Soil forming the banks of
bore-drains, and soil of areas
flooded by bore-drains reticulat-
ing fluorided water, contain
appreciable quantities of fluorine.
In localities where earth-eating
by stock is common, this might
offer an additional source of
fluorine. Although Harvey does
not say so, his findings to date
would indicate that fluorosis is
not likely to become the serious
menace to sheep which graziers
at first feared. Harvey finds
that, “In the light of present
knowledge, the only effective
means of combating this disorder
lies in the management of
flocks.”
Zebu Hybrids
“Oxo”: Frank Fraser, Burn-
side, Ingham (N.Q.), states that
whether people like or dislike
hybrid cattle, there is no deny-
ing that North Queensland
graziers using zebu bulls have
cut their stock losses, and are
now doing better. The inaugural
sale of zebus at the Brisbane
Show this year, he pointed out,
was a rush job, and vendors had
sold most of their bulls before
a decision was reached as to
holding the sale. They could
now plan ahead and reserve
their best calves each year for
Brisbane.
Next year he hoped to be able
to offer some purebred zebu
bulls by imported sires from
American heifers. Zebu breeders
were hopeful that next year the
Royal National Association
would provide zebu classes at the
show. Fraser is surprised that
the zebu has so many critics.
The average cattleman depended
for a living on his turn-off of
beef, and if one beast produced
more beef than another the
grazier must take notice.
Tree-tomato
“Big Billy”: In warmer dis-
tricts the tree-tomato will do
well and will grow from either
seeds or cuttings. Under suit-
able conditions the tree will be-
gin bearing within 18 months of
planting. Plants grown from
seed usually develop with a
straight main stem which
branches naturally at sft. or 6ft.
from the ground.
Branching can be decided by
pinching out the top growth at
the desired height; thus it is
possible to produce a tree which
bears fruit and foliage at a more
accessible level.
Cuttings produce low bushy
plants which generally branch at
ground-level. The tree has
brittle wood and is particularly
susceptible to wind damage.
Choose a situation close to the
sunny side of the sheltering
hedges or buildings.
Two main varieties, the red
and the yellow, are in common
use. The red is more popular
with commercial growers owing
to its more attractive color. The
yellow is less strongly flavored
and is considered more palatable.
The yellow is best for stewing,
and requires less sugar.
Soil-moisture Test
“Aquaterra”: A practical test
for estimating the amount of
moisture in medium- and fine-
textured soils: a ball of the soil
is squeezed three or four times
in the hand; if the soil doesn t
hang together it contains less
than 25 p.c. of available mois-
ture. .
If the ball remains whole
after five times tossing it a foot
into the air and catching it, the
soil contains more than 50 p.c.
of readily-available moisture. If
the ball breaks with less than
five tosses its moisture-content
lies between these figures.
With a moisture-content of
75 p.c, to full field-capacity, a
thickness of l/50in. or more of
the soil sticks to the thumb upon
squeezing the ball. At full field-
capacity, a thin film of moisture
will be visible for one or two
seconds on your finger after
squeezing the ball.
Mite-conlrol
“Billjim”: Experience in
south-east South Australia indi-
cates that small quantities of
D.D.T. will stop the red-legged
earth-mite from reducing sown
pasture.
An essential is to start soil-
preparation at least eight weeks
before the seed is sown. The
paddock is then dusted with 51b.
to 61b. of 5 per cent. D.D.T. per
acre. Using a drill, mix the
D.D.T. with the super. Remove
hoses from the boots and allow to
drop. A piece of board fastened
at an angle of about 45deg. just
below the bottoms of the hoses
will improve the evenness of the
spread.
When mites are not present in
the sown area but are in adja-
cent pastures a 20ft.-wide ring
of D.D.T. around the outside
edge of the sown paddock will
prevent their entry.
Plant Aids
“Hortus”: Potatoes respond
marvellously to a side-dressing
of potash just before first hilling.
If only a small patch is planted,
wood-ashes will do the trick.
Remember, there’s a lot of
potash in a potato-tuber.
Young lettuce-plants shoot
ahead when a dose of Epsom-
salts is put into the water once
a week. It makes them heart
more quickly.
When raising young tomato-
plants in frames under glass or
hessian whitewash or paint the
walls of frames white. This will
prevent plants leaning towards
the light. There’s nothing worse
than having to transplant
spindly, straggly seedlings, -
Tree-seed
Fertility of tree-seed
should be tested before sowing.
When large numbers of a species
are to be grown trial plantings
of seeds should be made in a
box. If 80 p.c. germinate, then
fertility is high enough to ensure
successful planting.
Another test is to cut the seed
open with a sharp knife. If the
kernel is plump, sound and
filling the cavity, fertility can be
rated high. Fertile seeds of
pines should, when bruised, give
off a faint scent of turpentine.
The degree to which seed
withstands drying is an indica-
tion of how long it will remain
fertile. Seeds protected by hard
coats suffer little loss in viability
over lengthy periods. In some,
however, fertility span is short;
acorns and nuts should be sown
as soon as collected. Seeds of
araucarias need planting as soon
as they are ripe. In red-cedar-,
teak- and kauri-seeds fertility is
shortlived. Those of eucalypts
and pines keep for three or four
years. Seeds of wattles remain
fresh for several generations.
Spring is the best-seed-sowing
period. There is no hard and
fast rule as to how long it takes
seeds to germinate. Some
species are slow in rousing to
life, and may take four or five
weeks to germinate. Hard
seeds, such as the native blue-
berry, ash and colane, rarely
germinate under six to nine
months. Where delayed ger-
mination is suspected, seed-
boxes and -beds should never be
allowed to dry-out.
Tainted Potatoes
“Lindy Lou”: Last year, try-
ing to destroy insect pests in
their crops, Clarence River
(N.S.W.) potato-growers used
B.H.C. in place of D.D.T. Re-
sult was that the spuds took on
an unpleasant flavor and be-
came unsaleable.
As the taint of even a small
quantity of B.H.C. in the soil
can persist for years, growers
will have to keep potatoes out of
that ground for a long time.
In future they will either have
to use D.D.T. or lindane (the
PROSPECTS GOOD
Every sign that can be studied
indicates a strong future
demand for wool, and par-
ticularly for well-classed wool.
To get the best possible return
from his sheep every farmer
who does his own classing
should have “The Bulletin”
Wool Type Card as a guide.
Send 7s. 6d. for one now.


BRAND OF PHENOTHIAZINE
THE EFFECT OF WORMS ON
WOOL PRODUCTION,
THE MOST EFFICIENT
WORM DRENCH
WORM FREE
SHEEP
~W3nsk
12 LBS.
WOOL
LIGHTLY INFESTED
SHEEP
W3EHM
11 LBS.
WOOL
HEAVILY INFESTED
SHEEP
dfg
LBS.
wool
IT PAYS TO USE ‘PHENOVIS’.
One of a series of advertisements designed
to convey as a simple story the results of
many years of research. Acknowledgment
is made to many research workers whose
results have been published in the Aus-
tralian Veterinary Journal and elsewhere*
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
ml
enjoy DOUBLE benefits with
AGA
Regd. Trade Mark
Better Coo king PLUS Better Hot Water Service
That’s the thing about
AGA, it’s the only Cooker
that serves a double pur-
pose so cheaply. A single
coke fire burns continu-
ously, keeping ovens »
and hot plates ready
for instant use day
and night, as well as
heating ample supplies
of hot water for kitchen
and bathroom needs.
The correct grade of
coke now in ample supply.
AGA COOKER
(MODEL CB)
10 YEARS' GUARANTEE
against faulty materials
or workmanship. Built
to last a lifetime!
AGA FOR ECONOMY!
Your fuel bill won’t exceed the guaranteed
maximum no matter how much you use AGA.
Low consumption of coke is guaranteed.
AGA FOR CONVENSENCE!
You don’t have to watch meals. Tempera-
tores are automatically adjusted. Two ovens
and two hot plates cook at different speeds.
Leave food cooking, even overnight
AGA FOR COMFORT!
Your kitchen stays cool and comfortable
when you cook with AGA. Heavy insulation
keeps the heat inside. Fuelling is so clean
and easy, too, and is needed only three times
in every twenty-four hours.
OTHER AGA COOKERS
MODEL "E" (Four ovens, two
hot plates, one warming plate).
MODEL "ET" (Four ovens, two
hot plates, one warming plate,
plus hoi water tank).
MODEL "CS" (Two ovens, two
hot plates).
MODEL "DS" (Two ovens, two
hot plates, plus hot water tank).
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. In 1S41)
Sol© Australian Agents for
AGA COOKER AND
BENDIX HOME WASHER
j NEW SOUTH WALES _____ 45 King Street, Sydney
I VICTORIA ______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
[ QUEENSLAND Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
I SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
j TASMANIA _____ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
| WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS MALLOCH BROS. Ltd., Perth
pure gamma-isomer form of
8.H.C.) in one of the formula-
tions now being put up by enter-
prising firms.
Forecasting Honey-flow
“Drone B.”; For some years
much research-work was done
on prediction of honey-flows in
eucalypts by Miss (now Dr.)
Wykes, of Melbourne Uni-
versity.
Basis of the experiments was
the relation between the varia-
tion in the starch-content of the
sapwood and the intensity of the
subsequent nectar-secretion by
the tree. There was, and still is,
a good deal of misunderstand-
ing by apiarists on the precise
value of these observations.
Whilst the starch test is by no
means a complete guide to the
honey-flow prospects of an area,
it may still serve a useful pur-
pose if applied properly and in
its true perspective.
Briefly, the test amounts to
this: If a heavy positive test is
given at the right time the in-
ference is that there is a high
sugar potential in the tree for
the production of nectar, pro-
vided other conditions are favor-
able at the time of flowering.
This latter point is the one which
causes so much confusion when
not taken into consideration.
The test does not signify that a
good flow is certain. A little
thought on the matter will make
it obvious to any beekeeper that
whatever the starch reaction of
the tree before bud-burst, no
nectar will be gathered if bad
weather prevails over the flower-
ing period.
It might be considered that a
negative test would be of more
practical value. Theoretically,
this may be so. Given a nega-
tive test the inference is that
the sugar-potential is not there,
and hence (a) no great quantity
of nectar can be produced or
( b ) if much nectar is produced,
then it will be a very weak and
watery product and of little
interest to bees.
Anomalies in the results
obtained from the positive test
may be largely only apparent,
and further research is needed
to bring to light further infor-
mation.
Cabbages
“Farmer Bill”: In cooler dis-
tricts cabbage-seed can be
planted at any time except mid-
winter. In warmer parts late
varieties should be sown in
summer and early ones in
autumn and late winter. Planted
in the wrong season many
varieties run to seed.
Sow in a special box or bed.
If seedlings appear overcrowded
thin them out to ensure stocky
growth. Keeping the soil well
stirred between the rows pre-
vents damping-off.
Seedlings should be about 6in,
high when planted out. Large
species should be spaced 18in.
apart and 2ft. between the rows ;
small kinds 12in. apart and 18in.
between the rows. Early cab-
bages take three, and late ones
four, months to mature. Most
varieties make poor heads in the
height of summer.
Dig the plot well, lime the
soil lightly and allow it to lie
fallow for three weeks. Cab-
bages flourish best in soil rich
in organic manures. When these
manures are scarce substitute a
green crop. For summer cab-
bages use black cow-peas and
for winter blue lupins. Dig the
green crop in and, without wait-
ing for it to rot, sprinkle super.
and sulphate of ammonia along
the furrows, piling back sin. to
6in. of soil over the fertilisers.
When the plants are half-grown
another sprinkle of sulphate of
ammonia stimulates growth of
heart.
To prevent attacks of white-
butterfly and aphis Derris-dust
should be applied early and be
repeated at frequent intervals.
Urea as Fertiliser
“Nitro”: Urea containing 46
p.c. nitrogen, compared with the
20 p.c. of sulphate of ammonia,
is a relatively new, soluble
nitrogen fertiliser now on the
market.
Its value lies not only in its
greater concentration and lesser
likelihood to be readily leached
from the soil by heavy rainfall,
but also in its immediate absorp-
tion and availability to crops
when used as a foliage spray.
So far, in America, use of
urea in such application has
largely been confined to apple-
trees in cold regions, where
there is little or no response in
spring from soil application of
nitrogen fertiliser.
Urea has yet to be proved as
a foliage-spray for leafy vege-
tables such as lettuce, cabbage
and cauliflowers, which often
require a nitrogen fillip in
winter when they cannot get it
from the soil.
Hints for the Farm
“Big Billy”; Meatmeal will
increase egg-production more
than any other single food.
Added to wheat, meatmeal can
lift production from 90 eggs per
year to 140-150 eggs. For every
100 birds, instead of feeding 241 b.
of wheat daily give them 221 b.
of wheat and 21b. of meatmeal.
This can be done at no extra
cost. Just feed the grain the
usual way and put the meal out
in a feeder and let the birds eat
it at will.
“Sundowner”; Good carrots
and parsnips will not grow un-
less the soil is deep and friable.
On heavy soils gardeners can
get ideal conditions by taking
out a narrow trench about
spade-depth and filling with a
sieved mixture of soil made
friable by mixing four parts of
soil to one of compost. Poor
germination is often due to
sowing too deeply or allowing
the topsoil to dry out before the
plants are well through. Cover
seed shallowly, not more than
fin. *
“S.”; To guard against aphis
attack on carrots and parsnips
in spring, and yellow jassids in
summer, use three-weekly dust-
ings or sprays of a D.D.T. com-
pound or liquid B.H.C. as an
alternative.
“C.A.A.”: Interesting figures
have been compiled by S.A. De-
partment of Agriculture show-
ing how rate of profit from
poultry can be increased by £1
a week. In a 1000-bird plant
100 extra pullets may be raised
without upsetting general
arrangements. Cost of raising
the pullets was found to be £5O,
less sale of 100 second-years for
£3O, leaving £2O. The 100
pullets laid 14 dozen eggs,
which, at 3s. 9d. a dozen, re-
turned £262 10s. (net). The 100
second-years laid 10 dozen, a
return of £lB7 10s., the differ-
ence being £75. Less replace-
ment cost, this gave a balance of
£55. The increase, the depart-
ment points out, involves no
more feed and very little extra
work.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The cyclical pattern of a dry spell ending late in
August should now be followed by a, series of rains, largely
°f thunderstorm type, to continue the favorable seasonal
conditions forecast under the Crohamhurst system. Mid-
September promises storms with rain. Along the southern
coast rains of Antarctic origin are likely, with probable
flood effects as far northi as the N.S.W. central tablelands;
the Murray may rise to a high level.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Coddled Industry
The pressure’s on again. Listen to the
words of the president of the Australian
Industries Development Association : “If
the Government does not immediately
raise tariff-protection for the threatened
industries, we inform you that we will
do all we can to defeat you and elect
a Government that will heed our needs.”
There’s the gun presented straight at the
head.
Hear also the words of the general-
secretary of the Australian Natives’
Association: “The association believed
tariffs should protect Australian indus-
try even to the extent of complete pro-
hibition of imports in any threatened
industry.”
Those remarks were the sort of stuff
that two Cabinet Ministers had to listen
to in Melbourne when meeting a depu-
tation. Senator O’Sullivan, however, was
equal to the occasion when he stated,
“You can grow sugarcane efficiently in
Queensland; you could also grow it in
a hothouse at the South Pole, but it
would be an inefficient industry.” If
that does not sum up the position as
neatly as possible, nothing does.
Don’t these deputations realise that
Australia cannot live unto itself entirely?
Only the other day it was reported that
Japan was being arced into buying wool
of inferior grade in South America to
the detriment of Australia, simply be-
cause her sterling balances were being
depleted.
Sterling balances for foreign countries
are built up by sterling countries buying
from those foreign countries the goods
which they have to sell. With such sterl-
ing balances the foreign countries can
then buy the things which we have to
sell. There’s no mystery about it. It’s
as simple as that. Whether our exports
are too highly priced or not, foreign
countries cannot buy from us unless we
buy from them.
Our costs have already driven some of
our manufactures out of the export field.
On the decision of the court as to hours
and wages much will depend.
Previously the banking system saw to
it that a nice balance was maintained
between imports and exports and there
was no trouble. Nowadays the influence
of pressure-groups (and they’re all at
it), a high and largely fictitious London
exchange-rate and the high tariff wall
are making conditions almost impossible.
The world is a big place, full of all
sorts of people who take different views
of this “workers’ paradise,” and it can
be very cold and cheerless for those who
do not appreciate that natural economic
laws will sooner or later assert themselves.
We are getting further and further away
from those honeymoon post-war years
when anything we could produce and
ship found eager buyers. And for the
ordinary citizen who has to battle along
without the aid of these pressure-groups,
the sooner the showdown comes the
better. We have just about priced our-
selves out of most things.— Ceg (Vic.).
Guide-dogs
Further to the discussion of guide-dogs
for the blind, let me quote a letter
recently received from the Seeing Eye,
Inc., New Jersey, U.S.A.; the
Seeing Eye is the only one of
several organisations in the
U.S.A. for the training of guide-
dogs:
“The letter in The Bulletin
does not present a clear or
accurate picture of conditions
here. To our knowledge, no
figures have been compiled on
the number of guide-dog users
in this country. It is true that
the percentage of the total popu-
lation of blind persons who
can use dogs is low —many are
too old, some too young, but
for those who can use a dog
the possibilities are limitless.
“Over 2000 dogs have been
issued by the Seeing Eye alone,
and about 200 of those were issued to
servicemen of World War II who lost
their sight in line of duty.
“Adjustment to a dog-guide is not
looked upon as getting a dog, but has
far greater meaning than that. Great
care should be given in selecting blind
people to work with dog-guides. They
should be physically and mentally fit;
they should want to take their place hr a
sighted world. Once your graduates find
employment, compete with the sighted
and are successful, employers will look
with more favor upon employing those
handicapped by blindness. This, too,
is a long educational programme and
takes time.
“Sir Arthur Pearson died in 1921, and
his quoted statement could have little
bearing on the dog-guide movement as
it is known today. Certainly blind
beggars with little dogs on strings, back
in the dark ages, bear no resemblance to
the master and dog-guide who confidently
thread their way through all kinds of
traffic under varying conditions today.”
It is very hard to understand the re-
sistance by the Royal Blind Society of
N. S. Wales to a movement which is
doing such splendid work. — Constance
Gibbon, Hon. Sec., Guide Dogs for the
Blind Assoc. (W.A.).
Rommel’s Generalship
If British generals had paid as much
attention to Captain Liddell Hart and
Major-General Fuller as did the Germans
(B. 12/8/’53) our soldiers and statesmen
would not have experienced the humiliat-
ing defeats which marked 1940 and 1941.
Hart and Fuller are more profound
students of the art of war than the
majority of professional soldiers, but they
had no chance against the prevailing con-
servatism of the “livery stable” mind of
the War Office, which concentrated
cavalry in Palestine in the early years of
the war and had to be badgered by the
Prime Minister as to their disposal. The
Germans, unfortunately for us, were
wiser.
Sir Winston Churchill had occasion to
write a strong minute to the C.I.G.S.
(see The Second World War, Vol. II)
on the employment of Major-General
Hobart, identified with the development
of armor in pre-war years and of the
school of thought of Hart and Fuller.
Churchill was “not at all impressed by
the prejudices against him in certain
quarters. Such prejudices attach fre-
quently to persons of strong personality
and original view.” Moreover “This is
a time to try men of force and vision
and not be exclusively confined to those
who are judged thoroughly safe by con-
ventional standards.”
The art of generalship is best exempli-
fied when success is achieved with meagre
resources. Both Wavell and Rommel
passed that test by the audacity of their
manoeuvres at times of great personal
stress and dearth of means. Students of
war cannot fail to note the close parallel
between the circumstances of Allenby
and Montgomery, who were blessed with
entirely adequate means which, in British
history, inevitably accrue after a series
of melancholy failures brought about by
“too little, too late” or “not good
enough.” This is a painful process, and
ultimate successes should not obscure the
credit due to earlier bearers of the
burden. Neither should we lack the
generosity to acknowledge the skill of
the enemy, and for that reason Churchill’s
comment in the House of Commons that
“we have a very daring and skilful
opponent against us, and, may I say
across the havoc of war, a great general”
will remain the soldier’s estimate of
Rommel.
Since the pace of the Dominions in
adopting new military ideas is largely
“Nothin fr[?] nobody till y's feed the pigs.”
that of the British Army, Australia
should be alert to ensure that conserva-
tive influences are not operating to de-
prive her forces of the most effective con-
tribution to Empire defence. Had we
been able to send a trained armored divi-
sion to the Middle East in 1940 it would
have had an immense influence on the
campaign. In the end we sent our
armored division nowhere, and one of
the reasons for that resides in the sup-
pression of ideas and the policy of de-
precating original thought as practised
by the War Office between the wars.
If Liddell Hart needs to resort to
quoting German* generals’ endorsement
of his ideas it is a reflection on our
“I Warned you about shedding your skin too early—now you've
got the 'flu.”
ability to pay tribute to the voice of the
prophet in our own country.— Hoplite
(Vic.). _
Armaments
Further to the subject of armaments
(B. 9/9/’53): “Hand-cannon” was the
name by which small-bore portable fire-
arms were first known. Their history
must always be a subject of debate, since
the records are scanty and were written
by men who were writers rather than
by users or makers of the weapons.
Also, the specimens remaining to us are
very often made up with bits and pieces
from earlier or later guns.
The hand-cannon appeared about
1330-40 and was in use in England by
1375. It was a small version of the metal
cannon of the time mounted on a rough
handle or stick and not at all efficient.
In 1346 a Tournai smith produced a
pointed projectile for use in hand-cannon.
It was a kind of short quarrel; in fact, a
cylindro-conoidal bullet.
The arquebus with lateral pan and pan-
cover and serpentine came along about
1424, and armor was pierced by a bullet
the next year. Loaded, primed and with
lit match, this arm could be carried ready
for use and fired by pulling a trigger while
being aimed. It had a military value by
reason of the awe it inspired and the
septic wounds it caused. Rifling was in-
vented about 1498, but was not under-
stood and was not a success until 200
years later.
In 1471 Edward IV had 300 mercen-
aries armed with “hand gonnes.” Henry
VIII came to the throne and the wheel-
lock appeared in 1509. He was greatly
interested in firearms and armed half his
Yeomen of the Guard with arquebuses
and half with bows, and his German
armorers produced, in 1537, a breech-
loading rifle. This had a loading-chamber
hinged laterally to a shoe projecting to
the rear of the breech—the original
Snider-type mechanism.
About 1550 the production of a mild
steel permitted many improvements,
notably in the springs and hammers of
wheel-locks. Under James I the wheel-
lock pistol had a great vogue and started
to displace the rapier as an arm of offence
and defence. It also had a democratising
effect as the oppressor became vulnerable
to the assassin. By 1640 flintlocks were
in use in England , along with match- and
wheel-locks, but by 1650 the superior
flintlock predominated.
Between 1650 and 1700 there were
more improvements and many ingenious
devices. The old “meal” powder, which
was very weak and foul, was replaced by
the stronger and slightly cleaner “grain”
powder. Sportsmen became more in-
terested. There were double-barrelled
guns and pistols, two kinds of repeating
guns and a “hammerless” (really an
enclosed-action) fowling-piece. New
pistols included a revolver with a
chambered cylinder and another with
four revolving whole barrels, also a
pistol with spare screw-in barrels and a
wonderful “duck-foot” seven-barrelled
affair. ' V : •
None of these was really successful
since poor machining prevented tight-
fitting of parts and back- and multiple-
firing occurred. Tamping was not pos-
sible, and fouling jammed the works.
Rifles were made, but were neither
accurate nor popular, so “Brown Bess”
came into her own as the standard type
of military firearm and remained so until
1850. .
Still, the flintlock fowling-pieces of
this period were well balanced and effi-
cient. In 1700 Willmore, a London gun-
smith,. produced a good screw-plug,
breechloading sporting rifle. From 1730
on the duelling pistol was steadily im-
proved to become an almost perfect one-
shot weapon by 1840. By 1750 rifling
was good, but unpopular with the Army
because of the difficulty of loading a
tight-fitting ball into a foul barrel.
From 1750 to 1800 the Kentucky rifle
of the American frontiersman (with its
easy-loading, patched bullet), Fergusons
breech-loaders (turned down by the
English Army) and the metal ramrod
(French) were the most worth-while im-
provements in hand firearms.
Sportsmen have always been ahead or
the soldier in seeking improved firearms,
and gunsmiths have always been depen-
dent on chemists and metallurgists for
the raw materials with which to develop
their often-advanced ideas. The middle
of the 18th century saw a great interest
in chemistry and physics, which paved me
way to the discovery of the fulmmants
and the use of copper and brass for caps
and cartridges, and so made possible the
multitudes of types turned out since IoMJ.
Later developments, the “Tommy-gun
and its like, are only possible because
present-day chemistry gives us very exact
explosives, and present-day precision
machining and alloys with the correct
degrees of toughness and expansion give
'us working parts exactly suited to their
tasks
The discussion of these matters hang s *
largely on who reads the latest and/or
best book last. My authoritiesMg®
Pollard’s Small Arms, t Chambers Encyclo-
pedia and notes I took when doing an
armorer’s course.— Armorer (Q-/*
—


Homes
I’ve no brief for the N.S.W. Housing
Commission (B. 2/9/’s3)—my own ex-
perience of it has been an unhappy one
—but I haven’t any sympathy either for
private builders. Like the trade-unions
during the labor shortage, private builders
were only interested in what they could
make out of the housing shortage. Such
self-interest was not peculiar to builders
admittedly, but their attitude did not en-
dear them to the homeless.
The iniquitous “cost-plus” system pre-
vented many people from building their
own homes, which meant that they had
to turn to the Housing Commission for
relief. I know it wasn’t called “cost-
plus”—it had the more euphemistic name
of “rise and fall,” although the term
“fall” was completely superfluous, for
nothing ever fell. This was supposed to
be for rises in' the cost of materials or
labor, but was used to cover inefficiency
in organisation, waiting-time, etc. Any
hopeful homeseeker had not the faintest
idea what the home would cost him
before it was finished.
The builder had nothing to lose. If
he didn’t finish the home he had made
plenty anyway, and could move on to
the next one.. The half- or nearly-
finished homes scattered around the
countryside were not confined to those
being built by the Housing Commission.
There was nothing in the system to make
the builder work a little harder or a little
more efficiently nor to stop him walking
out of a partly-finished building.
The “spec.” builder also Icept homes
away from the middle- and lower-income
groups. They were not interested in
contracts for modest homes but went in
for more expensive types. For a long
time these found ready buyers, but prices
from £4500 upwards were beyond those
who had to turn to the Housing Com-
mission. I walked from Mosman to
Manly in 1949 approaching builders
on the way. Out of 30 of them only
one agreed to look at my plans and
specifications, but wouldn’t submit a
tender for at least six months.' Most
of them told me they weren’t touching
contract work.
The common complaint against the
Housing Commission is that you just had
to take \vhat it offered or go without.
That applied to the private builder, too.
Specifications were ignored, and, if the
owner didn’t like what was going into
the house, that was just too bad— it still
went in. In my own place a stainless
steel sink was specified but a substitute
went in at half the cost. Protests to the
supervising officer from the financing
authority merely brought the answer that
'the builder says the other is not avail-
able.” Throughout the house there were
over £2OO-worth of these substitutions
and, in some cases, eliminations, yet not
a penny was taken off the contract.
Shoddy work was common, but the
builder blamed his workmen, not his
own “take it or leave it” attitude.
In their tenders builders made provi-
sion for waiting-time. If they had to
wait only one month instead of three
for their cement or found that their
brickies laid 350 instead of the 250 esti-
mated, it was money in their own pockets.
The mythical “fall” in the contract price
never seemed to figure in these cases.
Private builders are squealing today,
now that the owner expects to have some
say in his own home and expects speci-
fications to be followed. And they are
trying to squeeze out the type of person
they created—the owner-builder. When
things were tough, would-be home-
owners found they could do a lot of the
work themselves and sub-contract for all
that they couldn’t. While work was
plentiful and “spec.”-built homes were
easy to sell, builders regarded the owner-
builder with a tolerant smile, but today
they are asking the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment to legislate against the owner-
builder. There was no talk of registra-
tion of builders five years ago when any
man who had £5OO and could use a
hammer and saw called himself a builder.
The only difference today is that the
owner can insist on getting what he is pay-
ing for. Prices haven’t come down, yet
waiting-time for materials and loafing by
workmen have almost disappeared. What
has happened to the money which ■ was
allowed for that? It hasn’t all been swal-
lowed by basic-wage rises, etc. Why are
timber homes no cheaper since hardwood
dropped from 1325. to 115 s. a hundred-
super? Private enterprise in the building
industry has not yet met the challenge of
the economic position today. Its mind is
still back in the past few get-rich-quick
years.
The State Housing Commission has
“Well anyhow, dear, it's just a start. Perhaps We can build on to it later.'*
many weaknesses, but it did do something
that private enterprise was not prepared
to do during the hard years. It has ful-
filled to a large extent its slogan “Homes
for the people.”— Rann (N.S.W.).
There is a strong suspicion that a lot
of the houses rushed up or dumped down
during the housing crisis won’t last out
the repayment period, so that the man
who “owns” the house won’t have a
house to own when he owns it.
There is some satisfaction, therefore,
in knowing that at least one expensive
jerry-built home is going to prove costly
to the builder. In Melbourne a builder
sued for £BO5 final payment on £3500
and the householder counter-claimed,
alleging that the house was so badly built
that it would cost a great deal to put
into proper order. In. his judgment Mr.
Justice O’Bryan said he thought the house
was so badly built that it might fall
down or the walls crack so much that
the authorities would order its demoli-
tion. It did not comply with the speci-
fications or with the Uniform Building
Regulations, and on that count was liable
to demolition.
The judge found that the foundations
appeared to have half the proper amount
of cement and couldn’t be replaced with-
out the building collapsing, and that it
had cost the owner £2OO special expenses
because of the faulty building; he
ordered the builder to pay the owner
£4950, the estimated cost of demolishing
the shack and rebuilding it properly.—
Bumpkin (Vic.).
National Service Training
It is interesting to note that Malcolm
Skilbeck (B. 26/8/’53) bases his opinions
of National Service training on a survey
of views expressed by young university
graduates. This class, in general, has not
very sound ideas on the value of back-
ground. They enter the universities to
obtain the cultural values which will
enable them to become erudite and know-
ledgeable members of their chosen profes-
sion, and, incidentally, they gain the
technical knowledge to practise their pro-
fession. In many cases that knowledge
could be obtained at a technical college.
But they still require some years in
a junior capacity in a profession to gain
the background of it, and also to realise
that the background is necessary.
The “military profession” solves the
problem by having a separate “university”
in which its juniors get the background
and cultural training while learning the
technical elements of their profession.
That “university” in Australia is, of
course, Duntroon.
The N.S. trainee gets, first and fore-
most, background training, plus some
small amount of technical training. That
background training will enable him to
become an efficient soldier if later re-
quired.—H. P. G. C. (N.S. W.).
My assertion that only a small section
of National Service trainees return from
camp disgruntled is based on nearly two
years’ experience of the scheme at the
receiving end—in a C.M.F, Regiment.
The shortcomings in the C.M.F. part
of the military training system are in-
disputable, but, despite them, the keen-
ness that can be aroused in the trainees
is sufficient evidence that their basic
training is interesting and sound. More
and more each year are qualifying for
n.c.o. rank, and officer appointments will
soon be common.
Regarding the examples of “time-
wasting” quoted, surely at least the
psychology students would have admitted
the value of active participation in the
sports gymkhana as a means of develop-
ing esprit de corps. And what better
way of arousing pride in one’s camp
than by some healthy gardening? As
for the lads who helped organise the
concert, might not their experience be
prized in a war-time unit condemned
to a term of garrison duty?
I don’t claim that the Army should be
above criticism —in fact it is often too
sensitive to it. I think that the National
Service Scheme, ' which took political
courage to introduce, has been organised
realistically and is giving direct results
to the taxpayer in defence, in raising
citizenship standards and as a small part
of the demonstration the democratic
world must make of its belief in its ideals
and its willingness to fight for them. —
Niheru (N.S.W.).
J. H. M. Abbott
Most of J. H. M. Abbott’s historical
yarns mingled grimness and humor, and
in general they imparted a strong im-
pression of versimilitude because of his
trick of including deftly an apparently
factual episode or record of some kind.
Thus, in December, 1924, he wrote in
The Bulletin a tale entitled “The
Nurse,” which had for basis a lengthy
and cordial inscription allegedly appear-
ing on a stone that allegedly surmounted
a grave at La Perouse after allegedly
standing for many years in the old Sand-
hills Cemetery, now the site of the
Central railway-station. Having got his
readers “in,” John proceeded to relate
how Elizabeth Multitude, a convict mur-
deress with nursing experience, was com-
pelled by Surgeon Bowes and Captain
Campbell of the Lady Penrhyn to dance
attendance upon another woman convict
whom she detested. Later (so the tale
ran) Mrs. Multitude gained the complete
confidence of Surgeon-General John
White at the Sydney Infirmary, and she
was in charge one night when her old
shipboard antagonist arrived as a very
sick patient. What happened then need
not be repeated here, but the story made
it clear that had the facts become known
there would not have appeared later a
cordial inscription on the gravestone of
Elizabeth Multitude.
Now, that grim tale horrified my wife,
herself a former nurse, and when, as
matters fell out, she became a hospital
patient soon afterwards she underwent
in delirium a nasty experience—the ghost
of Elizabeth Multitude materialised and
pranced around her bed! Consequently,
when Jack Abbott next visited the office
of the “Daily Telegraph” (then in King-
street) I damned him heartily. Jack—
amid chuckles—said he was sorry. Then
he seized a piece of office letter-paper and
wrote a message of apology, one which
1 pinned to a copy of the tale itself and
tossed into a drawer. Here it is, dated
March 6, 1925:
This is to certify, to whom it may con-
cern, and for Mrs. A. H. Chisholm in par-
ticular, that, to the knowledge of the
• undersigned, Mrs. Elizabeth Multitude never
was a nurse nor did exist. Also, that it
would be impossible to find any fragments
of her tombstone in La Perouse cemetery.
There might have been nurses like Mrs.
Multitude —to wit, Sarah Gamp—but, by
the blessing of Heaven, the said undersigned
has never had the misfortune to meet them.
He feels sorry, and at the same time flat-
tered, that Mrs. M. haunted Mrs. Chisholm.
The latter’s humble servant,
J. H. M. Abbott.
Soon afterwards, as though to empha-
sise the point that it was not judicious
to regard his stories as factual, Jack wrote
for me in a copy of Tommy Cornstalk
(his brisk account of experiences in the
South African war) an inscription in
which he described “this prehistoric
tome” as “the only book I’ve written that
is strictly veracious.”—A. H. Chisholm
(N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 243
Across
I—To be platformless, I telephone,
but why in an indolent, languish-
ing manner? (15)
8 — Girdled state threw off. (6)
9 A way to tie up a fieldsman with
speed all at sea. (4-4)
11 — Bone to search for and find a
family of oysters. (8)
12— Ukraine capital heads off King
Ivan entering Vilna. (4)
15—The proximate are in the flier’s
residence. (7)
12 Pertaining to the mineral com-
monly used as a soldering flux.
19 —Girl is coeval without fuel. (3)
20 Bottomless one by the stipendiary
magistrate and a half-century. (7)
21 Martin hoboes sometimes jump
this serpent baby with a toy. (7)
22 —Fire Falstaff’s favorite stimulant.
(4)
24 —Boy with a grave sacrifice. (8)
28 Place this milk-producer with a
year’s rent. (8)
29 Cloth tune about a couple to
mend and retreat to a Rhode
Island imitator the wrong way.
(6)
30 —In suitable ration, support a
crumb by Idriess at a cathedral
city of the fen country. (15)
Down
t—Asian insult disturbed the Portu-
guese. (11)
2 Bird donkey in the firm very
much on guard. (9)
3 A green French dodge. (5)
4 Loves to change to get the
answer. (5)
5 The Leeuwin is one garment. (4)
6 Monday in France. (5)
7 Still you come to tea. (3)
10—Staple petals and palest plates all
contain art material to let sap
rise. (6)
13— Clerical ass? (5, 2,4)
14 — King George has it, such courage
and staying power. (4)
16— -Austen novel upset me, mother.
(4)
17— Admit woman only according to
this Scotch dispenser. (6)
18 — Measure some boring sign of the
zodiac in the middle. (9)
23 —Figure Jason’s treasure ship
burden causes a vehicle to leave.
(5)
25 — Wading bird. (5)
26 — One who opens a musical enter-
tainment. (5)
27 The duck boy. (4)
28— Party peak. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 242


DU HD HQ
.
inn an anno
i mi an on an
a
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
W. P. McGRATH
(Chairman)
H. E. COLEMAN
(Deputy Chairman)
Hon. T. G. MURRAY,
M.L.C.
H. MORRISSEY,
Dr. W. J. McCRISTAL.
General Manager:
C. A. RALPH
General Secretary;
J. G. TAYLOR, A.A.S.A., ACTS,
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA;
459 Collins Street, Melbourne
LOCAL BOARD:
Sir Thomas Nettlefold, K-8., 0.8. E.
(Chairman)
W. O. Burt, P. F. O’Collins,
Ivan Holyman, G. Gordon Coulter
Manager: J. Carrick, A.A.S.A.
•
QUEENSLAND:
307 Queen Street, Brisbane
LOCAL BOARD:
Stewart N. Gow (Chairma^)
F. B* Charlton, Brian O’Sullivan
Manager: J. M. Hannan, F.A.S.A.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
113 King William Street, Adelaide.
LOCAL BOARD:
L. S. Clarkson (Chairman)
J. L. Travers
Manager; D. W. Chaffer
TASMANIA:
22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
LOCAL BOARD:
H. S. Barnett (Chairman)
R. M. Clarke
Manager: L. H. Williams
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
LOCAL BOARD:
J. M. Lavan (Chairman)
C. H. Merry
Manager: W. Dwyer
The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
EXTRACTS FROM ANNUAL REPORT
FOR 1952:
ssue of 9,872
★ ASSETS INCREASED BY £1.582.364 after providing £35.364
for Depreciation, and now total £23,478,342.
Policies in Force exceed 122,000, assuring
over £73,000,000
Premium Income amounted to £2,629,956
q Death and Accident Claims and Endowment
Assurances, maturing during 1952,
totalled £921,520, and since the
establishment of the Society exceed
£14,750,000
q Special Additional Reserves amount to
£740,000
Assurance
(Incorporated in New South Wales in 1878 )
Continues to Progress
Head Office
CITY MUTUAL BUILDING
60-66 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY
