

FOR PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION , BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
'■■ ' \
The Bulletin
“THE GENTLE BOHEMIAN"
*'The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3834
Wednesday, August 5, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
AN IMPOSING GEM IN THE CAMBRIDGE SETTING—CLARE COLLEGE
CENTURIES of history are mirrored in the quiet waters of the River Cam
as it winds its placid way through the famous University town of
Cambridge. Few other towns in Britain can provide examples of Norman,
Medieval and later styles of architecture in such profusion and which can
be viewed in such pleasant surroundings.
The most uniform in its style of architecture and the most pleasantly
situated College in Cambridge is Clare, illustrated here. In 1326 Clare
College was built on the site of the University Hall, but soon afterwards it
was destroyed by fire. It was refounded in 1344 by Lady Elizabeth de Clare,
and it was from her that the College takes its name. The present building,
dating mainly from 1638 to 1715, is the work of a local architect, Robert
Grumbold, and is a splendid example of that period.
According to tradition Clare College is associated with Geoffrey Chaucer,
author of “The Canterbury Tales,” who was born in 1340. English literature
was born of these tales, for before Chaucer’s day there were many dialects
in England but there was no language common to all; it was the magic of
Chaucer’s pen that created a national tongue.
The western range of Clare College - opens on Clare Bridge, built in
1640, which affords splendid views of the “Backs,” which are the pride of
Cambridge. This stretch of the river which winds its way between the
mellow brick walls of the colleges on the one hand, and their smooth, green
lawns under drooping lime trees on the other, has been described as the
finest half-mile in Europe, and is unrivalled for its tranquil beauty.
Cambridge today is an outstanding example of a long and eventful past
which has merged, almost imperceptibly, into a vigorous present, as exemplified
by the Cavendish Laboratories, where much of the most important scientific
research of the day is carried out.


LOOK DOWN THIS LIST
STOTT’S can train you—in the privacy of
your own Home. STOTT’S has helped
tens of thousands to achieve SUCCESS.
STOTT'S can help YOU I
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English. Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith ./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Oastlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
—“-OUT MAIL THIS COUPON —- -
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in:
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 453) AGE
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 5/-.)
We specialise in Katherine Mansfield items, in Aus-
tralian and N.Z. poetry, history, flora and fauna
of N.Z., South Seas, Antarctica, etc., and publish
Collectors’ Monographs (12/6 set of 6).
The Red Page
NEW ZEALAND EXPLORER
In 1848, when Leichhardt was losing
himself in the Centralian deserts, Thomas
Brunner was staggering back to Nelson
oyer the mountains of the northern end
of the South Island of New Zealand;
and though, as John Pascoe says in his
introduction to Brunner’s The Great
Journey (Pegasus Press, Christchurch),
the same spirit of expansion and adven-
ture was moving in the two countries,
there could hardly have been a greater
contrast in the difficulties which the ex-
plorers encountered. . . . Leichhardt
(whom Pascoe rather misleadingly men-
tions as having “journeyed through
tropical Australia on an uncharted route
in 1848”) busy perishing of heat and
thirst in the proper Australian tradition,
Brunner floundering up and down granite
crags through dense black-birch forests
m incessant rain.
Brunner, the son of an Oxford bar-
employed by the New Zea-
land Company at Nelson as a surveyor,
and, after some previous journeys south-
ward along the rugged west coast, under-
took to push further south, tracing the
Buller as far as its mouth “and ascer-
taining the practicability of crossing the
island in the direction of Otago or
Akaroa” Nelson, a fertile little pro-
vince enclosed by mountains, needed to
expand. The excursion took him the
best part of two years ; and his journal
(a classic of New Zealand history) is
now published in book-form for the first
time.
He set off with two Maoris, their wives,
and his dog named Rover, an animal
afterwards to achieve martyrdom. The
first thing that happened, after several
inches of rain had fallen, was that Epike’s
old wife was smitten by the devil; at
least she got lost, and when they retraced
their steps and found her, “she said she
had been struck by the Taipo, and did
not know what she was doing until she
came in sight of the, remains of our last
night’s fire.”
A few days later, after several more
inches of rain had fallen (“7th. Raining
incessantly the whole day... .9th. A dull,
dirty day, with rain in showers”), the
two Maori women had a fight and,
“their husbands taking part in the combat,
I had much difficulty in reconciling
them.”
Brunner slept in granite caves, and
floodwaters washed him out of them. He
built bark huts in cloudbursts. Epike
wanted to go back to Nelson because
he had a dream that his wife was
drowned while crossing a flooded river.
Everybody began to enjoy dysentery,
and one of the women got so sick that
the natives thoughtfully suggested leav-
ing her to her fate. Brunner “passed the
day in a black-birch wood, in company
with thousands of sandflies.” He struggled
upwards among huge slabs of granite ;
he “came along the river-bank about
one-third of a mile, which distance took
at least two hours to accomplish—hands,
breech, knees and feet being all actively
employed”; he dangled uneasily on a
flax rope over a 100 ft. precipice. And
all the time —or a great deal of the
time—“instead of rooming down in drops,
the rain fell in a regular sheet of water.”
The rain wetted the loads of fern-root
they were carrying for provisions, and
turned the mess mouldy. In spite of occa-
sional accidents of sunlight when the
Maoris caught eels or snared wekas—
and sometimes a kiwi, and once "a few
rats”—they got so hungry that the Maoris
turned avid eyes upon poor Rover.
Brunner indignantly refused what they
suggested.
It continued to rain. The fern-root
was mouldy; there were no rats, no
wekas, no kiwis; and the Maoris had an
unpleasing tendency to blame Brunner
for their misfortunes and to accuse him
of starving them. It was not prudent,
he said, to quarrel with them in such
wild country; and it is possible, though
Brunner does not say so, that they began
to turn avid eyes on him. So Rover be-
came a martyr who should be honored
in the annals of New Zealand explora-
tion ; and Brunner, overcoming his
scruples, seems to have found him quite
a pleasing dish;
23rd. Hunger again compelled us to shift
our quarters in search of food, but finding
none I was compelled, though very reluct-
antly, to give my consent to killing my
dog Rover. The flesh of a dog is very
palatable, tasting something between mutton
and pork. It is too richly flavored to eat
by itself.
Breaking through the mountains at
last to the coast, Mr. Brunner spent the
winter with a small tribe of Maoris. The
race as a whole avoided the wild, wet
west coast, though these people wfere
occasionally visited by friends from
Taranaki, bent on massacre and green-
stone. Here he spent some comparatively
idyllic months, observing native customs.
Food was sometimes plentiful. The
whitebait came up in such enormous
shoals that he saw the Maori dogs lap-
ping them up in mouthfuls from the
river; and there were also a boar and
two sows, the harbingers of future plenty,
which, being highly valued, slept in the
chief’s whare, where Brunner also had his
quarters.
The little tribe was fiercely divided into
sects of devout Anglicans and Metho-
dists; nevertheless the chief said he was
glad when Brunner announced his de-
parture, because if a lone white man had
died while his guest he would probably
have been accused of eating him.
The way home —in the course of which
Brunner discovered a coalfield now
named after him —lay through easier
country. In fact, he said of the Grey
River, “Some of the bends are as beauti-
ful, in my opinion, as nature can pos-
sibly make them. I am so pleased....
that I should not object to visit it again.”
But the rain began to fall again when
he got into the mountains; he suffered
some fearful form of cramp, rheumatism
or pneumonia which paralysed his side.
One of the Maoris —Epike—deserted him
with his wife and tried (in vain) to
entice his faithful Ekehu away also ; and
altogether it was a much-relieved explorer
who, in the dark and the inevitable rain,
barefooted and pricked by ground-
thorns, after 550 days “reached Fraser’s
about ten o’clock at night, whom I
found in bed, but he soon arose, and gave
me a hearty welcome, and the luxury of
a taste of good tobacco.”
Perhaps because of the continual damp-
ing of rain—the west coast of the South
Island is the wettest spot in New Zealand
—Brunner is rather a gloomy diarist
compared with Maning or John Logan
Campbell. Granted, he endured great
privations, while they enjoyed themselves
in the sunny north ; but he still lacks their
gusto and, though Ekehu’s passion for
eel-fishing comes out amusingly, their
feeling for character. But The Great
Journey, after its misleadingly bald open-
ing, remains a fine book to read, and an
invaluable record of a great feat of ex-
ploration.
Children's Books
Children’s Book Week is being cele-
brated in N. S. Wales from August 9 to
August 15, and the sponsors are holding
an exhibition of “hundreds of books ifor
children of all ages” at the Sydney
Public Library.
It would require a staff of hundreds
of reviewers of all ages to do full justice
to this display ; but perhaps Joan Phip-
son’s Good Luck to the Rider (Angus and
Robertson) may be taken as a sample of
the excellent “juveniles” that, from time
to time, are published in Australia. It
is not easy to imagine a girl of ten to
fourteen years who would not treasure
this delightful book, both for its absorb-
ing and well-told story and for Margaret
Border’s superb illustrations.
The tale, related with sympathy and
accuracy, but without any sentimentality
or melodramatics, covers a period of
about two years in the life of Barbara
Trevor, a rather delicate and nervous
country girl who does not share happily
in some of the activities of her elder and
more exuberant brothers and sister.
When she is twelve years old, and
shortly before she is to go to boarding-
school for the first time, Barbara, her
brothers George and Clive and her nearly
grown-up sister, Sheila, go for a two-
day camp (the boys drive the family
land-rover, this being the mid-twentieth
century) to a lonely valley near their
home. There they find a long-escaped
station mare, with her brumby foal. The
mare, injured in a thunderstorm, has to
be destroyed. Barbara, usually nervous
of horses, insists that the foal be caught
and taken home.
Her father eventually agrees to her
keeping it, although its breeding is
obviously poor. The foal, later christened
Rosinante by the teasing Clive, is ugly
and built on comic lines. Neither does
he grow up to be a champion—the story
is too realistic for such falsities. Rosinante
does, however, develop at two years
into a first-rate jumper on which, eventu-
ally, a still highly-strung but far more
confident Barbara wins a hunt event at
a local show.
Good Luck to the Rider is rich in fine
character-studies. Barbara’s un-identical
twin brothers, George and Clive, are very
different personalities; George, kind and
patient, helps Barbara and Rosinante
more, perhaps, than anyone else. Clive,
interested in farm machinery rather than
farm animals, by his teasing provides a
different type of incentive, as again doqs
Sheila, the poised and attractive elde'r
sister. Clive’s sarcastic tongue is matched
by the amusing repartee of Will, merry
and imperturbable, a school friend who
spends holidays with Barbara.
Every chapter is full of life, whether
it deals with boarding-school; visits to
the hearty neighboring family, the
Barkers ; horse-breaking, cattle-muster-
ing or encounters with wild pigs. In
fact, so wittily written and so interesting
is the book that not only brothers but
many parents will no doubt borrow it
from its fortunate schoolgirl owners.
Also from Angus and Robertson, but
written for a much younger age-group
(about five to eight) is Marmaduke and
Margaret (sequel to Marmaduke the
Possum) written and attractively illus-
trated by Pixie O’Harris. Margaret, the
heroine of this book, is said to be ten
years old, but her dialogue, reactions,
interests and dream-adventures are those
of a much younger child.
With the possum as guide, Margaret
meets all sorts of conversational and
convivial bush-creatures, and has adven-
tures in a boat on the Hawkesbury. The
villainess of the piece is Mrs. GoAnna,
who lives on a diet of eggs. Some of
the other animals, rather confusingly,
live on blackberry wine; and indeed
Mrs. GoAnna does not consort very
harmoniously with the other leading
character. Dwarf Apple, who though the
character is supposed to be taken from
an Australian bush plant, is shown in
the illustrations as a quaint little Ger-
manic person surrounded by Arthur
Rackham fungi.
The New Ruth Park
Ruth Park had the early misfortune
to write a book that could be compared
with Louis Stone’s Jonah , and the
greater misfortune of having it assessed
by one reviewer as better than that
masterpiece; but her new book, A
Rowetr of Roses (Angus and Robertson),
may safely be allowed to stand on its
own feet.
It is still a hovel-novel dedicated to
the Glory that is Grease :
But the glory is a real warmth of
color that Miss Park throws over estab-
lishment and tenants. She has in this
book abandoned the fastidious shudder
at bugs and brutality, the sociological
anguish, and the effort to crowd in a
curriculum of Australian sights, habits
and institutions which make The Harp
in the South seem like a conducted tour,
and boldly declared her unashamed love
of poverty and the poor; their wrinkles,
their dirty underclothes, their tears, their
pathetic courage ; she loves to distinguish
gradations of grime ; and her people are
showpieces from the collection of a
connoisseur.
There are aged Uncle Puss, of the
silver hair and whiskers, living with his
schoolgirl-niece, Miriam ; old Mr. Frazer,
ashamed of his poverty in a way that
would never occur to cheerful Uncle
Puss, sharing a room with his crippled
grandson, Dunkie; Mr. Frazer’s daughter,
Mrs. Cantavera, abandoned by her
acrobat-husband, who lives by takina
men ini o the room she shares with her
scrofulous baby; well-bred grandmother
!hf C wu llV1 £ g W \ th u her son Chea P BiUy
the bottle-oh and his son, Porgy, who
doesn t know his own strength; Mr
Monkey, the Chinese laundryman, and
his beautiful witless daughter, Ann • the
tuberculous Mrs. Simich and her tribe
of tuberculous children; and Mr Green
mg Christmas, the fish-shop proprietor
who, because of his religious convictions,
never cuts his hair and always neglects
his wife, who therefore drinks heavily.
Miriam tries to get a young clergyman
to have Mrs. Cantavera’s baby taken
away, but Mrs. Simich, to whom she
appeals for confirmation of her story of
brutality, has been threatened that if she
says a word, Mrs. Cantavera will have
her (Mrs. Simich) taken off to a
sanatorium for tuberculous cases, thus
depriving her children of their mother.
There are scenes of Uncle Puss procur-
ing an overcoat at a jumble sale, and
having his winter bath at a public baths.
Porgy Ketchel, playing with Mr!
Monkey’s little witless daughter in the
barn, forces her head against a nail and
kills her ; he tells his father, and his
father dislocates invalid Dunkie’s finger
in case he might have seen Porgy escap-
ing from the barn and mention the fact.
Word of this comes to Mr. Monkey
in such form that, believing the bottle-oh
father responsible, he discreetly murders
him by putting a funnel-web spider in
his clothes when he is sleeping-off a
drunk.
The climax of the book comes with the
taking of invalid Dunkie to a faith-
healer’s meeting; there Uncle Puss dis-
covers his long-lost little sister. Con, as
the faith-healer’s assistant. She leaves
the faith-healer, and comes to keep house
for Uncle Puss. Mrs. Cantavera goes off
as the healer’s new assistant, and Mr
Creeping Christmas, disgusted by the
travesty of faith-healing, shaves and cuts
his hair, and resolves to be a better man
by being a better husband. With the
death of Ketchel the bottle-oh, old Mr.
Frazer is free to marry old Mrs. Ketchel;
and the book ends with the death of
Uncle Puss and the enlargement into
Sydney’s business-world of Miriam.
The action of the book is thus either
violent or improbable; and it is less a
construction than an arrangement; one
picture played off against another,
pictures full of life and color—the steam-
ing fat in the kitchen of a cheap
restaurant, the Greek proprietor of which
hates food ; Miriam waiting outside for
Mrs. Cantavera and her man of the night
to go to sleep so that she can tiptoe in and
escape with the beaten baby; clergymen
at a jumble-sale warning a new curate
that he really can’t afford to give his
own overcoat to Uncle Puss —and every-
where breaking into poetry that finds
its inspiration in the confrontation of the
beautiful and the frightful, from Uncle
Puss’s comic rhapsody over golden-oak
caskets in an undertaker’s window; —
“They’re awful tasty,” admired Uncle
Puss. “And f'm told they’re all white
satin inside, like a balldress.”
to Mrs. Simich V tragic rhapsody over
her tubercular children;—
She didn’t often go outside now, she
said; her bronchitis wasn’t much better
though she’d been on ’mulsion so long and
spent a fortune on cough-mixtures. Her
transparent-faced little children stood
silently by her knee.'
“Got lovely skins, ain’t they?” She
caressed their thin colorless curls passion-
ately ...
It is not so much like a story as like
one of those pictures which are valued
because of the painter’s skill and unusual
cast of mind ; an ability to group highly-
colored portraits thickly and tightly on
the canvas, and an imagination which
deliberately chooses the Dickensian
arena of the slums for the material of
its poetry.
The Apprentice: Joseph Tomelty
(Cape). A Belfast novel, of a boy
brought up by his grim aunt. The
curious combination of innocence and
toughness, of human warmth and cul-
tural Calvinism, that characterises the
Belfast community is here done with
absolute accuracy ; and the not-unusual
escape from home-strictness —the boy’s
flight, as soon as he is out of his inden-
tures, into the arms and establishment of
Molly, who runs a cafe and has an ille-
gitimate baby—is very well handled,
indeed.
The Jerusalem had been a residential for
a long time now. Tumbledown, melancholy,
dirty, its top floors were a honeycomb of
little wet evil-smelling rooms, given over to
the rats and the cockroaches, or the
assorted tenants; its cellar was the abode
of a Chinese laundryman; and its street
level divided into two grubby, hangdog
little shops. One was the lamplit grotto
of Mr. Monkey, the laundryman, stacked
with mysterious, black-inked parcels, and
smelling of wet clothes and old Chinamen.
The other was the fish-shop.


Senior Store News Bulletin
The high ideal of SERVICE
Below are just a few of the special services Anthony
Horderns ’ provide for you when shopping in this great
Emporium . A Commonwealth Bank, Post Office, restaurant,
and personal shopping bureau all go together to help you
to easier, happier shopping.
?k mn, w\
THE SOUND BARRIER
Jfyy
<i
Many, many of our radio
listeners have written compli-
menting us on the different
and truly imaginative radio
programmes we, have been
broadcasting. Here is a
“thumb index” of these very
popular? programmes.
“Masters of Music”
One and a half hours of the
best in classical music of
popular appeal, presented by
Tom Jacobs, Station 2SM,
Sunday, 9.30-11 p.m.
“The Prince of Peace”
The story of Christ’s life on
earth. Listen to 2CH every
Thursday, 9.0 to 9.30 p.m.,
for this vivid dramatisation.
“The Children’s Party”
A hilarious half-hour of all the
fun from Australia’s Biggest
Birthday Party, broadcast from
our Hall by Keith Walsh from
2GB. Saturday morning 10.45-
10.45.
“Gardening Quiz”
A quarter-hour of good advice
with questions answered on all
gardening problems by Mr.
Albert Evans, F.R.H.S., 2GB,
Saturday, 8.30-8.45 a.m.
Lawnmower Casualties
Treat them now before spring.
Mower on the blink . . . your
temper following fast behind?
Then dial M 2401 and we’ll
pick it up, let our experts at
it, deliver it to you almost
new!! Electric, petrol, and
sweat models.
Electrical Repair Shop
On the ground floor in the
kitchenware dept, we have a
brand new, big household and
electrical repair shop.
Our Optical Department
Your eyes, when in need of attention, will
most likely sound their own warning. Head-
aches and eyestrain are just two symptoms!
Often this warning goes unheeded too long,
retarding your career, taking pleasure from
your sport and entertainment. Bu! good vision
is no longer in the hands of the gods, today
it’s in the hands of your optometrist, in the
formulae of his laboratory!
We consider optical health enormously impor-
tant. That’s why on our second floor we’ve a
special optical centre; Mr, J. A. Galloway,
A.S.T.C., F.L.0., is the consulting Optometrist.
He will be happy to guide you in the care of
your eyes. >
Special attention is given to all Doctors’ and
Hospital prescriptions. Remember, when you
preserve your eyes you preserve your talents,
your career.
V:
n
3%
Si
Commonwealth Savings Bank
On the ground floor is a branch of the
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia
where all the amenities of banking are at your
disposal, adjacent is a spacious writing room.
Restaurants
For excellent food and service try our Tudor
Room on the ground floor and Main
Restaurant on second floor. For snacks there
is the Buffet and Marble Bar on Pitt St, Floor.
Special Lay-By Service for
Country Customers
Every country customer can lay-by goods just
by forwarding us the deposit (4/- in the £).
We’ll reserve whatever you want until your
next trip to town.
Pharmacy
Our pharmacy dispenses all prescriptions
including ones for free medicine. Special
surgical hosiery sold in pharmacy.
Gentlemen,
we never forget!
How often have you missed out on wifey’s birthday, your wedding
anniversary, your rich aunt’s birthday, a special club meeting, income tax
return, radio and dog licence, and had to “face the music” from all and
sundry? Often is our guess! We address this message to the male offenders
in particular, as the census shows the “enormous majority” of such. But
NOW—the greatest idea of all time—a charming young lady will remind
you of all these things in good time, this year, next year and every year.
Just another example of the helpful service Anthony Horderns’ offer to
the public. This is how it works: T.0.P.5., our new Telephone Order and
Personal Shopping Service, extends its helpfulness and introduces “Forget-
me-not,” a reminder system you’ll drink-the-health-to many a time. Just dial
this number
ask for T.0.P.5., tell us your particular “forget-me-not” (in other words
“date of importance”), we will register it, then you can happily forget it. In
due course we will remind you—all for FREE of course —the rest will be
up to you.
We think this service will become a miniature United Nations as far as
peace-making goes. Think of all the strife we’ll save you, of the friendly
feelings we’ll help you create. Friends ’n’ relations will say, “There goes
Jones, the man who never forgets.” Mother-in-laws will love you for
remembering their birthdays, life will be rosy. We’re proud to say we’re
the only store in Sydney offering you this invaluable, strifeless, service. We’d
Jove you to make a “date” with us . . . from then on we’ll forget you
never!
P.S. for every clever woman
Why not ring T.O.P.S.’ “forget-me-not” Register, tell us your birthday,
anniversary, etc., also your husband’s telephone number? Then just before
zero hour, we’ll do the reminding. And what a surprise for him! Good
idea? Good idea!
M 2401
A TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
nthony Horderns’
Wl


What it is, why it's used
PIDGIN
By GEORGE CAIGER
® Typically enough, a U.N.O. Trusteeship Council resolution (as
cabled) calls on Australia .to put a stop to the use of pidgin English
in A lew Guinea. “It would,” commented Minister for Territories
Hasluck at Canberra, “be just as foolish to suggest that all Europeans
should speak nothing but Russian next week.” He added, however:
“We are working towards replacing it” The following article (written
prior to the U.N.O. discussion) indicates why those “working towards”
that '*replacing” have the job ahead of them.
i < O NANIT,” “Antap . .
I gazed at those two words,
/ | written on a blackboard. I was
visiting the Medical School at
Goroka in the Highlands of New Guinea,
Once you speak them aloud you may
get a clue to their meaning, “underneath”
and “on top,” in what is generally known
as “pidgin,” the lingua franca used in
Papya-New Guinea and the Solomons.
The dictionary defines “pidgin Eng-
lish” as a jargon, chiefly of English words,
used between Chinese and Europeans,
and the name itself as a corruption of
“business,” Anyway, those two words
set me wondering over the future of
pidgin as a language. Will it develop and
come out “on top,” or will it remain a
lingua franca for the area in the south-
west Pacific mostly inhabited by Mela-
nesians, a useful but subsidiary means
of communication?
By now pidgin has become a definite
language, not merely a quaint variant
of English. The vocabulary consists of
mainly English words which have suffered
a phonetic change into something rich
and strange, grafted on to a Melanesian
thought-structure. The newcomer to the
islands who thinks he, or she, can go
gaily ahead just making up words or
phrases as they are needed will soon be
disillusioned. Phrases and idioms have
become established. Variations from
the normal produce merely the polite
sniile of complete blankness.
To speak pidgin fluently, either you
have to learn to think like a native,
according to native patterns of thought,
or just accept the patterns which have
been evolved. As an example of the
different mental outlook reflecting itself
in language one could instance the ex-
pressions for stages of boiling a kettle:
“ ’Ot water ’e no ’ot” (cold), “ ’Ot water
’e ’ot lic-lic” (warm), “ ’Ot water ’e ’ot”
(hot), “ ’Ot water ’e boil” (boiling).
It is true that many house-boys learn
to understand the personal variations of
their “mastah” or “missus,” but this takes
time. How long depends on the intelli-
gence and goodwill on both sides.
It has become a language because it
answers the need for a common speech
in the arc of islands sweeping from New
Guinea to Santa Cruz. The size of the
problem may be appreciated from the
estimate of 400 distinct language-groups
in Papua-New Guinea and 40 in the
Solomon Islands.
Pidgin began in the 19th century, when
a scattering of white traders, sailors,
whalers, pearl-hunters and labor-
recruiters spread a simple, limited
vocabulary of essential words, with some
lusty expressions, redolent of the fo’c’sle.
“Bugger-up finish,” to express finality,
sounds strange when used in the course
of conversation by ladies in the islands,
and appals elderly relatives when a child
says it in a drawing-room on the main-
land.
The elements of the language are easy.
All women are “Mary.” Food is “kai-
kai.” “Little’’ in New Guinea is “lic-lic,”
while in the Solomons “small” is used.
I found the phrase “bring ’em ’e come”
for “bring” an interesting parallel with
the Japanese usage. “Too much” means
“very.” Words like “fella” and “be-
long” have to perform a wide range of
duties. “Cross” covers the whole range
of emotion from petulance to threatened
murder. When God “makim bigfella
haiwater” or the Flood, it was because
He was “cross” with mankind. Then
some words are used in new compounds,
such as. “house,” meaning “building,”
which gives “house-sick” (hospital),
“house-calaboose (jail), “house-picture”
(cinema).
The origin of certain words is clear.
“Walkabout” came from Australia,
though now it may be applied to some-
thing which has worked loose when it
ought to be firmly attached, or»even a
queasy stomach,'which might be described
as “Belly belong me go walkabout too
much.”
Australian, too, is the widely-used
expression “My word!” “Gammon” for
lying, malingering or a tall story has
survived in pidgin English where it has
become obsolete in normal usage.
“Capset,” that striking combination of
capsize and upset, probably was a legacy
left by sailors. One of the successors
of Captain Cook introduced cattle some-
where, but any subtle distinctions as to
sex were not taken seriously, and now
meat, cattle and the tinned variety are
all “bullamacow.”
When the German traders came into
New Guinea they found pidgin English
in general use. Although it apparently
had no grammar or dictionary, they had
to learn it in order to cope with the
laborers on the plantations. As they
found it useful to be able to talk to each
other in German without the “boys”
understanding, they made a virtue of
necessity and encouraged the use of
pidgin English.
By contrast, in British New Guinea,
or Papua as it was later called, the use of
English proper was encouraged, with
Motu as the lingua franca for police-
boys and others who moved about the
Territory. After the affairs of Papua
and New Guinea became somewhat more
mixed up together, following on German
New Guinea becoming Mandated Terri-
tory, the discovery of gold at Wau and
Edie Creek and the Japanese invasion,
pidgin spread to Papua.
All languages are crystallised by print-
ing, and so a Lik Lik Katolik Baibel at
once developed, crystallised and spread
the use of pidgin. From a copy printed
in Alexishafen in 1934 I quote the first
sentence (the meaning becomes clearer if
it is read aloud; “i” equals “he”):
“Pastaim tru God i mekim heven and
graund.” Later, “God i kichim meri,
Adam i givim nem belong meri Eva.”
At the Medical School in the High-
lands of New Guinea “doctor boys,” or
native assistants, are being trained. In-
telligent and interested lads are taken
from widely dispersed villages, and
through the pidgin they learn at the
school they can talk with each other and
with people from other villages when
they return home. Their textbooks are
stencilled and have simple “pikchers.”
While appreciating its advantages in
extending the area of communication, my
first thought was that the use of pidgin
instead of English gave short-term
advantages rather than long-term,
The natives of New Guinea have
a i ways been accustomed to the limited
Hf e D f the family, clan or tribe, in the
geographical limits of a valley. Recently,
increasing numbers, they have been
brought into contact with a much wider
WO rld. Many of them have lost interest
j n t be old life, but as yet find the new
Hf e irksome and baffling. It is not merely
a question of “education,” of teaching
them to read and write. What is needed
is a new type of education, one which
w ifi help them to integrate themselves
to the new and larger world,
Can this be done through the medium
of pidgin? Though, admittedly, few are
ready for anything like a university edu-
cation, pidgin English would hardly
seem a satisfactory medium for higher
education. By the same token, one is
prompted to ask whether pidgin has de-
layed and stunted the development of
some natives?
The question is one of great scope,
because the decision on the language to
be used as the means of instruction
i nvo i ves a j so tbe training of teachers who
can use it and provision of textbooks
| n tfi a t language. Owing to the limited
ran g e 0 f their experience, the natives
a pp ear childlike, but their minds in some
resp ects are mature, and the textbooks
from which Eng i is h children learn to
read are so unsuitably childish that they
are discouraging. Most of such books
dea i w fib situations quite foreign to the
naEv es. Further, teaching a language is
not i im i ted to textbooks. Large quanti-
ties of rea ding-material are wanted. If
thege afe not ava ii a ble
~, , ,
hungry sheep look up, and are not
* ed > . , , . :
ut swoln with wind, and the rank mist
. draw,
Rot inwardly, and foul contagion spread.
Before discounting the possibilities of
pidgin as a language we should remember
that modern French is based not on the
Latin of classical literature but on the
popular spoken language of the Roman
soldiers and uneducated people. They
did not call a head caput, but used the
slang expression for a tile, testa, and this
word has become accepted as good
French in the form of tete. Some Euro-
peans maintain that pidgin will evolve
and become a bridge between cultures,
In any case, that is a long-term proposi-
tion. Others believe that its usefulness
is limited to its present sphere,
It is true that a native representative
has addressed the Legislative Council of
Papua and New Guinea in pidgin, but
it would seem that its usefulness will cer-
tainly be limited to Melanesia—that is,
Short Story
"HOLIDAY"
by E. O. Schlunke
The woes of a motorist whose car
broke down on a holiday and
who had to wait for a country
garage to fix it up.
In next week’s “Bulletin”
fiction batch
the area included in New Guinea and
the Solomon Islands. Phrases and speech
used in New Guinea vary greatly from
usages in the Solomons, almost to the
degree of being different dialects of
pidgin. A Chinese trader in the Solo-
mons told me that the “boys” use the
word “singaletto” for both cigarettes and
singlets, so he had to ask them “Singaletto
for smoke?” or “Singaletto for wear?
but, as he said, “Time you savvy fashion
along boy talk, talk him easy.”
Pidgin is unlikely to spread outside the
Melanesian area because the Polynesian
peoples don’t need an artificial lingua
franca. They have their own language,
already extremely widespread. As they
are more sophisticated than the Mela-
nesians, the better-educated among them
speak either English or French, accord-
ing to the chance of history,
My own impression is that, as far as
we can look ahead, pidgin will remain
an essential medium, but “underneath
rather than “on top.”
Eye Trouble
50 in the end I thought I may as
well go and see about them.
The nifty little receptionist
welcomed me with a gorgeous
smile. “You wish to, see someone
about your eyes?” she asked.
“Well,” I said, “I’d certainly need
to if they hadn’t let me know a few
seconds ago that you have the
loveliest pair I’ve ever seen.”
She cast them down demurely,
“Come this way, please,” she said,
“You can see Mr. Grynder right
away—he happens to be vacant.”
Mr. ■ Grynder certainly was.
Staring into space, 1 thought at first,
quite oblivious of my presence. Then
I saw what he was looking at
through the window.
“Well,” ‘l remarked, pointing to
the girl with the short skirt getting
on to the high step of the bus just a
outside,'“if you’re going to give
your lamps their morning exercise
you may as well train them on some-
filing interesting, eh?” ■
He started, turned and stammered
something.
“This is Mr. Scwert,” put in the
receptionist, coolly.
“Thank you. Miss Giggell,” said
the optometrist. “I er I will
attend to him, thank you. Now, Mr.
Scwert, what is the trouble—eye-
strain, I suppose?”
“Not the slightest suggestion. As
f. !’’ al , tCr ,°, f £act tl,e c ? ief . lhing
hats ttouW.ng me 1S a bunion on
the right little toe. I would
bke ”
“But surely you feel something
wrong with your eyes to come and
see us. Any headaches?”
“Yes, plenty. I wake with one
practically every morning.”
“Ah, that’s it! Just sit here,
please.” He took a small torch and
shone it in each of my eyes.
“As I thought,” he announced.
“Astigmatism.”
“A what?”
“Astigmatism.”
“Well,” I remarked philosophi-
cally, “at least that’s 'better than
having two stigmatisms. The wife
warned me I might get something
like that from playing with the
<Jo S-
It s as-tigmatism,” the optome-
said.
. All right, I heard you the first
time ” I replied y
He took up a pjece of cardboard
and held it over my left eye. “Now
read out the top line,” he said.
After about 20 seconds of silence
he said “Can’t you see anything?”
“Not a thing.”
“Not even the first letter?”
“Absolutely nothing.”
He went around to the front and
looked at me. “You have your other
eye closed. No wonder you couldn’t
see. Keep the one open that I don’t
cover with the cardboard.”
“Well, why didn’t you say so in
the first place?” I protested.
“Now,” he said, “go on—the top
line.”
»j_U—L—Y,” I began.
“Your eyes are bad,” he said, a
note of deep concern unmistakable
now in his voice. I” Then he
followed where my free eye was look-
ing. He walked over and turned his
desk-calendar upside-down, very
pointedly.
“On the wall here,” he said testily.
“Now, the top line.”
“Let me see now” —I peered with
heavy concentration. “The one on
the left is G —no, half a mo, a Z,
or maybe a D. The second is R, or
it could be X or A. The third”
“Forget that. Take the third line.”
' “It’s just a blur,” I reported.
“Oh, well, it’s no use doing the
bottom line, then.”
“Oh; that’s easy,” I said.
“E.G.B.D.F. But it doesn’t seem
( to make sense.”
“Why! That’s amazing—you got
it right!”
“What’s amazing about it?” I de-
manded. “I learned to read thirty-
eight years ago.” '
“You have long-distance sight,” he
announced.
“I don’t see how that could pos-
sibly be,” I said. “My wife always
says I’m short-sighted, especially
over that block of land she wanted
me to buy when it was five quid a
foot and I wouldn’t, and later we
had to pay eight quid for it.”
“Yes, yes,” he ,said. “Now what
sort of glasses do you prefer?”
“Tall ones,” I replied. “Have you
got time for”
“No, no what style horn,
rimmed with heavy wings, pince-
nez, light shell?”
“I think I’d prefer a lorgnette,” I
said, “if I must, look through lenses.”
“But only women wear them!” he
protested.
“Listen,” X said. “You’re just a
stuffed shirt. I don’t follow fashions,
I make them. Women have had a
monopoly of lorgnettes for far too
long. Besides, they’re easily held.
You can hook them on your coat-
lapel and so won’t mislay them, they
add a dignified look”
“Now, look here,” he blustered.
“What would people think if they
knew I’d made a lorgnette up for
a man? I’d look a positive fool!”
“Nature,” I said coldly, “antici-
pated the lorgnette. But if you don’t
want my valuable patronage I can
easily go elsewhere. Anyway, my
headache’s gone now. It was only a
hangover from last night. Good-
by e.”
As I went out through the recep-
tion-room the nifty little receptionist,
following the line of my gaze, pulled
her skirt further down over her
knees. “I see there’s nothing wrong
with your eyes,” she said pertly.
“That’s right,” I said. “And may
I say they also are a very lovely
pair! ”
Miss Giggell did.
Bo


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 5, 1953
Vol. 74—No. 3834
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper *House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
PEACE, KOREA AND U.N.O.
The Korean truce having been signed, it now
only remains for the nations involved to make the
peace. Under terms of the armistice agreement this
must be achieved within 90 days, but there is little
optimism that all issues will be settled in the
time. The Chinese do not have a quarter
of their 4,000,000 men under arms in Korea merely
for the sake of the Koreans, and it is impossible to
divorce the question of Korea from those of Malaya
and Indo-China, from the Russian pressure on Japan
from the north and on Persia from within and without.
It is all part of the world pattern of Communist
aggression, and to settle the Korean war alone is
merely to stop one hole through which the flood
threatens to pour in force.
Soviet eagerness to control Korea never
has had anything especially to do with ’Korea,
about which nobody cares much, except perhaps
the more exalted minds of U.N.O. It is not for the
Koreans but for the world that the United States has
rearmed during the past three years, put eight
divisions in the battle-line along the 38th- Parallel
and built up another 13 or 14 on a war-time basis at
home. And it is not for Korea that the British,
Australians, Canadians, Maorilanders, French, Turks,
Belgians and others have made major sacrifices. The
7600 soldiers of Australia who have won the right to
wear the Korean ribbons, the 258 who have died, and
the 977 wounded, along with the 386 other casualties,
were defending not Seoul or Pusan but the stepping-
stones to Australia. And while they have held back the
tide there for three years since 1950 —the Australian
Government made its first forces available four days
after the Communist attack began and two days after
the appeal for troops by U.N.O. —nobody has imagined
that they or their opponents were fighting merely for
Korean freedom. And nobody believes that the
negotiation of the peace will be any easier than either
the fighting of the war or the arrangement of the
truce.
The Soviet Union, in particular, along with its
satellites, is bound to make the most of the opportunity
which has been deeded to it. It has manoeuvred
carefully to bring about the closing discussions at a
time which best suits its world propaganda, though not
before the British Commonwealth began to steady on
its feet.
The West now has a dual task in respect of
negotiations with Russia and its allies: First
to obtain unanimity of view among its own members,
which differ widely about such questions as the
further recognition of Chiang Kai-shek, and the
recognition of Communist China, which must be
achieved prior to a world peace settlement. The
Americans have made their opinion clear on this point,
and it is perhaps a bad start to the negotiations that
they should have done so at this stage. Mr. Dulles,
the Secretary of State, has said:
1 would not be prepared on behalf of the United
States to try and buy the unity of Korea at the price
of a concession which would involve bringing
Communist China into the United Nations and, above
all, into the Security Council.
And it seemed from his subsequent remarks that, if it
became necessary, the United States would use its
power of veto against these changes.
It is certain that the Soviet nations # will use the
occasion of the -peace conference to press the claims
of China, and that within U.N.O. itself they will have
powerful support, probably even that of the United
Kingdom and large sections of the British Common-
wealth —India for sure —'subject to conditions.
In the circumstances U.N.O. seems to have proved
a trap for the West. The Korean war is U.N.O.s
war—officially, anyway. It has been fought technically
as a police action with U.N.O. armies, but, except for
comparatively small contingents, mainly with United
States and South Korean troops and United States
and British resources. The United States has negotiated
the armistice. The United States, on the basis of its
trusteeship of Korea under the agreements of 1945
and of American effort, has the right to finish the
job and make the peace.
The American Government, however, cannot
isolate its bargaining from United Nations issues. It
has power to a very great degree to say “Yes” or
“No” to any condition made in process of discussion
concerning U.N.0., its membership, policy and
behavior. But it might be that it could only enforce
"Try it for size."
its will, one way or the other, by the use of the
minority veto as a fist, thereby antagonising its friends
and rendering U.N.O. groggier on its feet than it is at
present. The difficulties of the situation are magnified
by the fact that the normal annual meetings and elec-
tions of the United Nations Assembly are due to take
place during the period of the armistice. And the
Communists must look forward to the uninhibited
squabbling and propaganda opportunities of its
debates with glee.
The conception of U.N.O. as a community of
free and equal nations is—as soberminded people have
always believed —-only a dream. It is workable only
under the domination of one or more of the great
Powers, whichever happen to be in a position to exert
strength and influence favorably to their ends. U.N.O.
as a whole has no more free will than a dog on a
chain, and the sooner it is recognised the better.
Streamlined, or Bluff Front?
. , „ *' _ K,r
In the 1930’s many millions of dollars were pe y
the American automobile industry to produce ana
perfect the streamlined effect in motor-car design. All
the emphasis was on reducing wmd-resistance. let
when the designers were called upon in 1946 to give
the public a “post-war car” they scrapped muen o
that theory and gave their new-model power-wagons
the broad-bowed appearance that has been various y
termed the “Wurlitzer-organ” and the bluff iron .
Round about that time the Chifley Labor overn-
ment decided that the time had come to give
Austrahan arbitration system a . 8 " ,
T* u l he u.Z “stream-
described by its chief begetter, Dr. E , *
lined arbitration.
In introducing the amendments which were to
take away from the Arbitration Court most of its day-
to-day tasks and vest them instead in 15 (later increased
to 16) conciliation commissioners. Dr. Evatt stressed
that the main purpose of the legislation was to speed-
up the settlement of industrial disputes.
In the debate which followed Menzies had some-
thing to say on streamlining. He said that the bill
certainly endeavored to give that impression. It
employed such words as “expeditious,” “promptly,”
“effectively,” “immediately” and “forthwith,” but those
words meant nothing unless the powers which were
already in the Act were expeditiously or promptly used
and “unless the parties adapt themselves to those
ideas.” ,
Evatt had emphasised that the success of the bill
would depend “almost entirely on the men who
administer it Men are required wth a strong sense
of social justice, a high degree of personal disin-
terestedness and that impartiality without which the
trust of both sides can never be secured.” Fine
words, and there can be no quarrel with the recipe,
but Menzies didn’t seem to think the ingredients
mentioned would necessarily be looked for in the men
appointed. He said that experience suggested that the
conciliation commissioners were more likely to be
chosen for their politics than for their impartiality —
a suggestion which, of course, shocked good Dr. Evatt
profoundly.
Industrial “Labor” welcomed the Evatt streamline,
but it is extremely doubtful whether they expected
or desired that the commissioners would be chosen
for their disinterestedness or impartiality. What the
unions wanted was not impartiality but victory; not
quicker decisions, but more favorable ones. When the
list of appointments was announced it looked very
much as if their expectations were to be realised and
that Menzies’s prophecy was correct. Of the 16
commissioners, all but a few were either trade-union
officials or men long identified with the A.L.P.
Six years have passed since then —not long
enough a period to have realised the millennium, but
sufficiently long for a fair testing of the system. There
are still strikes ; there are still delays and complaints
of. delays ; there is still violent criticism of the court —
and the commissioners. Those “Labor” men who
thought the appointment of commissioners once
associated with their party would mean that every
decision would automatically go in favor of the unions
have been disillusioned. Hamilton Knight, one-time
Miners’ Federation vice-president and N. S. Wales
Minister for Labor and Industry, has been
outspokenly critical of actions of some of the
unions within his jurisdiction, and J. M. Galvin,
former secretary of the Combined Railways Unions
Council, has become Public Enemy No. 1 with the
Metal Trades Unions for refusing increased margins
on the ground that they would increase industrial
costs already overswollen —an attitude quite consistent
with the Arbitration Court’s principle of “the capacity
to pay.” Most of the commissioners have supported
the Galvin view in this matter.
Last year, to meet the problems caused by con-
flicting awards made by commissioners, the Menzies
Government further amended the Arbitration Act to
permit appeals to the Full Court against decisions
made by commissioners. The right of appeal had
been expressly barred by the Evatt Act; the com-
missioners’ awards were to be unchallengeable and
there was no provision for reconciling conflicting
awards. Official “Labor” opposed the right of appeal
and still opposes it, though a growing body of opinion
within the party wants to change its mind.
Last week, fresh from his London visit,' Dr. Evatt
told a conference of “Labor” industrial-groups that
“the industrial discontent which is obvious from one
end of Australia to the other” was due to the Menzies
amendment, which had resulted in “the system of
multiplicity of appeals, which seems to include the
worst of both systems.”
It is doubtful whether many of his audience took
him seriously. They must have known that the condi-
tion he complained of was apparent before the
Menzies amendment was passed—was, indeed, one of
the reasons for the amendment. The truth is that the
Dbc. is trying to pass the buck for the failure of his
own attempts at speeding-up. By refusing the right of
appeal and omitting machinery for concerted action
by the commissioners he made conflicting decisions
almost a certainty. He cannot blame the commis-
sioners ; he appointed them himself, so they must have
the qualities he specified. If his new-model arbitration
is bogged down it is because it wasn’t really stream-
lined ; it was just a bluff front after all.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Unique Enterprise
Australia was in the Korean war from
the beginning—its first naval units were
made available four days after the out-
break. British land forces beat ours
into the field —the First Battalion Middle-
sex, First Argylls and Sutherlands of
immortal memory —but our Third Royals
were not far behind. They were joined
in turn by the First Princess Patricia’s
Canadian L. 1., the 16th Royal N.Z.
Artillery and the 60th Indian Parachute s
Field Ambulance. All these were in the
field before the end of 1950, to form
the 27th Commonwealth Brigade.
Half a dozen other British regiments—
Gloucester, Ulsters, K. 0.5.8., Black
Watch, Royal Welch, Royal Norfolks,
Fifth Dragoon Guards, Leicesters and
others —have since been in Korea,
together with two more battalions of our
Royals and fresh Canadians.
There were enough troops in the war
area within a year to form the First
British Commonwealth Division on June
28, 1951, under Major-General James
Cassels, formerly British Army liaison-
officer in Australia, who thus had the
honor of commanding the first formation
of its kind ever to exist. Under his
youthful and vigorous leadership it saw
some heavy fighting, culminating in
“Operation Commando,” during which it
advanced to the positions which it has
since held north of the Imjin River. In
those battles Australian troops covered
themselves with glory, and in the static,
war waged since they have been
patient, indefatigable in raiding and har-
monious in relationships under General
Cassels —who has been knighted and pro-
moted Lieutenant-General—and his suc-
cessors, Major-General Murray and
Major-General West. The sector is a
vital one on the Iron Front, a likely
breakthrough point, and the Australians
had casualties up to the end.
The division was in the line con-
tinuously for 18 months before being
pulled back —though, of course, its units
changed at intervals —but was placed in
reserve last February for a couple of
months, leaving its artillery behind,
attached to the Second United States
Division. Its rest was given over mainly
to training for action in the spring.
The experiment of the division has
been unique and entirely successful. The
organisation has been as international
as could be wished by any convinced
imperialist. Supply has been in the hands
of the Command-in-Chief in Japan
administered by successive Australians —
Generals Robertson, Bridgeford and Wells.
The Australian 77th Squadron, R.A.A.F.,
has given cover and help. There was a
British Deputy Chief of Staff with
the overall U.N.O. command. British
freighters ran supplies to the Korean
ports. A British general commanding
the division had under him British, Aus-
tralian and Canadian officers —on the
divisional staff all mingled—and an
overall strength always of about 25,000
men of the U.K. and various Dominions
involved, salted more recently with 1000
S. Koreans (Katcoms) who have been
brought into the division for experience.
The R.N. and the R.A.N. already
have some sort of regular co-operation,
and Australian military officers go to
England for staff-training. It would be a
good thing if there were also a peace-
time exchange of battalions at various
points within the British Commonwealth.
More Landless Soldiers
With fewer than 750 ex-servicemen
settled on the land in the eight years
since the war ended, Queensland Govern-
ment found itself broke, asked the Com-
monwealth to let it become an “agent
State,” was refused, and has now an-
nounced that soldier-settlement will be
suspended until further notice.
This has all the appearance of another
“Labor” stunt to discredit the Common-
wealth Government. When the Common-
wealth offered to finance the settlement of
ex-servicemen W.A., South Aus. and
Tasmania accepted, thus becoming
administrating agents for the Common-
wealth, known as “agent States.” N.S.W.,
Queensland and Victoria wished to
control their own settlement schemes and
entered into an agreement with the Com-
monwealth whereby they would find their
own finance, with aid from the Common-
wealth in the form of grants. They thus
became “principal States.”
The agreement led to complications
and delays. It got its death-blow when
N.S.W. Government began forcibly
“acquiring” private land at 1942 values
and was challenged in the High Court.
Tiie court upheld the N.S.W, claim that
it could seize property on “any terms it
thought fit.” ijut it also held that the
Commonwealth couldn’t legally be a
partner in this land-banditry because it
was bound by the “just terms” provision
of the Commonwealth Constitution, Sec,
51.
There was a noticeable slow-down of
feoldier-settlement in the principal States
after this. It is noteworthy that in S.
Australia, an agent State, 635 houses have
been built for soldier-settlers by the S.A.
Housing Trust, whereas Queensland, a
principal State, has settled only 741 ex-
servicemen. Population of Queensland,
1,238,425 ; S. Australia, 739,563. In other
"words, 0.61 settlers per 1000 of popula-
tion in Queensland, 0.85 in S.A,
Announcing the halt, Acting-Premier
Foley said the Gair Government had
“hoped to settle about 150 men this year,”
and, of “projects” in the Wandoan-
Taroom, Innisfail, Dawson Valley and
Bundaberg districts, some were in an
“advanced stage,” but all would now be
“suspended” because of “restricted loan
funds.”
The political angle lies in the time
chosen to ask the Commonwealth to
accept Queensland as an agent State.
The Commonwealth Treasurer is on the
point of presenting the 1953-54 Federal
Budget to Parliament. All the estimates
for that Budget are made. * The Loan
Council has fixed the 1953-54 loan allo-
cations. Asked to accept a new agent
State and find the money Tor it the
Commonwealth could do nothing else but
reply that the application could not be
considered this financial year.
Discovery by the Gair Government
that it couldn’t carry on with soldier-
settlement as a principal State could not
have been sudden. It must have been
apparent for a long time —at least long
enough for the Gairs to have made the
application before the Loan Council met
and before the Commonwealth Budget
went into final stages of preparation.
Which plainly suggests that when the
Commonwealth election campaign opens
next year, the Menzies Government will
find that in Queensland, the State which
votes against “Labor” in Federal
elections, it will face “Labor” assertions
that it “strangled soldier-settlement,” or
something like that. Unless he is blind,
every intending settler who now sees his
hopes dashed will realise that “Labor”
is out to make soldier-settlement another
pawn in its moves to regain power in
Canberra,
The Wheat Scheme
After a cost-survey of the wheat
industry in 1947 a cost-of-production
figure was worked out and has been
amended from time to time According
to the cost-of-living as propounded by
the formula used in assessing the basic
wage. Just now, on that method, wheat
cost-of-production is held to lie some-
where between 12s. 6d, and 12s. 9d. a
bushel.
Whether or not anybody can safely
work out c.o.p. of such a varied and
widespread, not to say complicated,
industry as wheatgrowing, the point is
that if we must have fixed prices for
anything, then somebody must fix them,
and they must have some sort of a basis
on which to work.
So, since the seven Governments feel
called upon to stabilise wheat —which is
just another name for price-fixing—and
since Q.o.p. is the accepted basis, the
growers are to vote on the following
peculiar arrangement:
A home-consumption price of 15s. a
bushel so long as the export price is 15s. a
bushel or more. If export falls below 15s.
t the home price falls also, but not below
c.0.p., which, on the computation and
adjustments, will probably be about 12s.
Bd. Out of the export price growers to
pay Is. 6d. a bushel into the stabilisation
fund, the £9 million now in the fund to
stay there, though £4 million could be
refunded in 1954-55. When and if the
fund stands at £2O million, more refunds
to be made.
This, in the words of Mr. Stott, presi-
dent of the Wheatgrowers’ Federation,
is “an insurance-premium which safe-
guards the growers’ cost-of-production
price if values fall below it,” and he is
urging growers to vote for Jt.
Whether the growers agree remains
to be seen. But the State Governments
have also to agree with it, and they will
be most sensitive about the effect on
food prices. The effect, if any, on the
basic wage would appear about next
March. It may be said, in passing, that
Australia has surrendered itself to an
economic tyranny in this basic-wage rule
as well as in its devotion to the exploded
theory that price-fixing is some sort of
a national saviour, but if we are stuck
with both, then the wheatgrower is
entitled to the same sort of protection
as the system gives others. He is cer-
tainly not required, as he has been in
the past, to subsidise the public loaf
in both senses.
Bureaucrat's Paradise
Maoriland • seems bogged down in the
struggle to escape from controls and to
put competition, initiative and free enter-
prise back in the saddle again. When-
ever the going is difficult —as lately in
housing, where costs are skyhigh indi-
viduals, companies and organisations all
turn to the State to help them out, in-
stead of putting their shoulders to the
wheel.' This might be because they’ve
fallen into the habit after being regi-
mented for so long, or it might be the
natural drift in tfre Welfare State, but
whatever the reason it’s clear that free-
dom and self-reliance are having a poor
run.
The sturdy independence of the last
generation has been dying out, and most
New Zealanders have forgotten how a
free-enterprise economy works, after be-
ing managed by the bureaucrats for so
many years. Red-tape has been killing
incentive and spoiling everyone, from the
Government downwards, until the
majority are now afraid of freedom.
Campaigns to get rid of controls are
invariably aimed at removing “protec-
tion” for the other fellow. Wage-earners
want to hold down prices while lifting
wages, cling to over-full employment,
and prefer import-controls to tariff pro-
tection, to give them greater bargaining-
power, always overlooking the shrinkage
in the pounds they’re bargaining for.
want import-control for
finished goods but not for raw materials,
and fear outside competition because of
high costs and the 40-hour week; they
demand decontrol of prices, but hold on
to comfortable monopolies or semi-
monopolies. Traders battle for freedom
in pricing goods, but want to retain their
trading privileges.
All want lower taxes, ignoring the cost
of maintaining one of the largest per
capita State payrolls in the world, with
one in every seven employed individuals
working for the Government. In many
ways it’s a bureaucrat’s paradise, extrava-
gantly regimented, overgoverned, over-
taxed and oversupplied with monopolies,
public and private.
The Annand Case
The action of Judge Nield, of the N. S.
Wales District Court, in upholding the
appeal of Douglas Annand, one of the
best-known commercial artists in the
Commonwealth, against a magistrate’s
conviction for soliciting Sergeant S. D.
Cameron for an immoral purpose, for
resisting arrest, assault oh the police and
for damage to a constable’s uniform, is
likely to have widespread repercussions
in view of the strictures passed by the
judge on Sergeant Cameron’s evidence —
described by his Honor as a “wicked and
dastardly lie” —and on the magistrate’s
view of the facts.
There is unrest, and has been for
years, in the public mind about this sort
of charge, so hard to refute and so utterly
fatal to the reputation and career of any
man who is found guilty whose lot,
in the words of the judge, is “complete
social ostracism and degradation.”
It would be unfair to comment on the
actual facts of this particular case, since
Sergeant Cameron proposes to appeal
against his dismissal from the force, and
other proceedings are likely to ensue from
the success of Annand’s appeal.
At the same time there is certainly
ground for the judge’s insistence that in
such cases it is dangerous to convict
without strong corroboration of the main
evidence, and that it is in the public
interest that such charges should be heard
“in trial by jury, under direction by a
judge whose directions are on record and
can be considered and tested in another
tribunal.”
And there is certainly ground in some
directions for the royal commission on
the .conduct of the Police Department
which the leaders of the Opposition and
some daily papers have asked for, and
which the Government has hastily but
definitely refused.
Some policemen did not come out well
in their ordeals before the Liquor Com-
mission, though there are signs that the
new commissioner, Mr. Delaney, has im-
proved matters considerably.
There are still a good many things
which call for inquiry. One is the flagrant
way in which the s.-p. racket flourishes;
some s.-p. merchants send out accounts
to their “clients” just as an accountant
or solicitor might, except that the state-
ments usually carry a footnote: “No pay,
no business.” Another is how far the
belligerent and vocal Police Association
dominates or influences departmental
policy. Only recently, by resorting to
the Crown Appeals Tribunal, it succeeded
in blocking the promotion in rank
of a brilliant young sergeant who had
been appointed head of the vice squad
after the proceedings of the Liquor Com-
mission had revealed his merits and after
the commissioner had picked him to make
a much-needed clean-up.
Martin on Transport
There must have been a mixture of
emotions in his audience when N.S.W.
Transport Minister Martin said on July
24 that if Australia couldn’t master its
transport problems the country would fail
to obtain basic needs.
This was followed by a statement that
there were too many agencies trying to
make capital out of newspaper-columns,
which wasn’t helping the administrators
and was throwing cold water on what
those administrators were trying to do.
Then came a vow that he would face
“the many tasks” ahead with “fortitude,”
without fear or favor, and no sectional
interest or individual would turn him
from the path of duty—and so on, and
so on. The audience, which comprised
delegates to a conference of the N.S.W.
Motor Traders’ Association and Albury
(N.S.W.) citizens, was at Albury, but
could have been pardoned for supposing
itself in fairyland when it heard:
Petrol tax is the most shocking aspect
of our national economy and it will retard
the growth of the country while it lasts.
Main roads have been blown to dust,
others are falling to pieces, and I am help-
less to do anything about them because
there is no money to keep them in proper
order or to make new roads Unless the
petrol tax is abandoned roads will go into
a worse state during the next year because,
after examining finances for the next year,
I find there is little I can do about it.
This could mean several things—which
don’t matter here. What does matter is
that Mr. Martin’s Government takes
hundreds of thousands a year in penal
taxation from private road transport and
hands the lot over to the railways instead
of spending it on roads.
There was one more gem: “Now that
Christie has been hanged perhaps some
Sydney papers will give me space again
on their front pages.” Mr. Martin got
quite a lot of space last month when Mr.
Winsor, the Railways Commissioner,
upon hearing that railway employees
were seeking more money, put in a
counter-claim to the Arbitration Court
on penalty rates for shift-work (these
penalty rates being a heavy contributor
to the staggering railway deficit). A
trade-union head promptly announced
that Mr. Martin would be instructed to
tell Mr. Winsor “where to get off,” and
this Mr. Martin duly did, Mr. Winsor
withdrawing the application. But per-
haps that isn’t the kind of newspaper-
space Mr, Martin wants.
The Doyle Inquiry
At the resumed hearing of the inquiry
into the association of former N. S. Wales
Minister for Mines, J. G. Arthur, with
Reginald Aubrey Doyle, the royal com-
missioner, Judge Amsberg, listened to
counsels’ addresses.
Mr. Ashburner, Q.C. (for W. C. Wentworth,
M.P.), said there was overwhelming evidence
of Arthur’s association with Doyle. There had
been evidence of visits by Doyle to Arthur in
his Parliamentary room and his departmental
office; also of visits by Arthur to Doyle s
home and of financial ventures, betting transac-
tions and other associations over a period ot
years. It was improper for a Minister to
.continue such an association after being warned
of Doyle’s criminal propensities. There was
no evidence that Arthur benefited from Doyle s
Customs frauds, hut in August, 1950, he had
been told of them by a Customs officer; also
that Doyle was suspected of having used his
Parliamentary room and phone for illegal pur-
poses. Mr. Ashburner submitted that Arthurs
evidence that he did not know of Doyles
conviction on Customs charges in April, 1951,
could not be believed.
In connection with H. W. Crowe’s evidence,
he said that it was obvious that Arthur and
Doyle had “little ventures” together, and that
Arthur allowed Crowe to believe that Premier
Cahill was involved. “The inference is that
Mr. Arthur was associated with Doyle in an
attempted confidence-trick on Crowe.”
Mr. Ashburner submitted that Arthur further
acted improperly in allowing Doyle to substitute
a grey Buick for the black Buick which Con-
struction Services Pty., Ltd., had instructed him
to sell; also in telling Doyle to pay the cheque
for £l4OO into Construction Services’ bank-
account. Arthur had taken no action against
Doyle for misappropriating the £1400; he hau
invited Doyle to his wedding and to a Christ-
mas party, and had continued to be associated
with him in betting transactions.
Of the sale by Arthur to Mrs. Doyle ot
8000 shares in Constructors, Ltd., Mr. Asn-
tfurner suggested that Mrs. Doyle was merely
a dummy for her husband. He did not con-
sider the commission could accept Arthur s
denial that he had permitted Doyle to use
his room and telephone, and he felt that
Cochran, of the Joint Coal Board, had,
“hedged” in denying knowledge of Arthur s
('Continued on next page)


shareholding in Constructors, Ltd., and that
his denial had to be considered in the light
of his friendship for Arthur.
Finally, Mr, Ashbumer submitted that
Arthur’s duty conflicted with his interest when
he permitted the Coal Board to negotiate a
contract with Constructors, Ltd., without dis-
closing his interest in the company.
Mr. Gordon Wallace, Q.C. (for the Joint
Coal Board), said that there was nothing in
the evidence to show that there was anything
suspicious, improper or unusual in the con-
tracts with Constructors, Ltd.; they were com-
pletely normal. There was no evidence of
corruption, and Mr. Cochran had not hedged,
but had related facts truthfully and openly.
Mr. H. Snelling, Q.C. (assisting the com-
missioner), submitted that there was no evidence
to show that Arthur was involved in car-
importations with Doyle; that although the
payment of £2OOO in cash by Mrs. Doyle to
Arthur for the Constructors shares was a very
unusual transaction, “the commission would
not be justified in returning an adverse finding
against Mr. Arthur.” Arthur’s instructions to
Doyle to cash the crossed cheque was not
thoroughly satisfactory, but it was crystal-clear
that he had told Doyle to pay it into Con-
struction Services’ account. Of Doyle’s use of
J. R. Stewart’s name and share-scrip, Mr.
Snelling said that Arthur must at least have
suspected the possibility of something question-
able, and he should have made some inquiries
fto satisfy himself of the bona fides of the
transaction.
When Mr, Snelling said that Crowe’s evidence
must be considered to be substantially true,
Judge Amsberg remarked, “In my mind this
is one of the worst features of this commis-
sion.” Mr. Snelling said that Arthur had
denied that there were any “little ventures,”
and he submitted that he must be given the
benefit of the doubt.
In the matter of Doyle’s use of Arthur’s
room and phone, Mr. Snelling said there was
no evidence that Arthur was aware of it. His
submission was that the finding was open that
Arthur, as a Minister of the Crown, should
have discouraged further association with Doyle
after the Customs warning, the £l4OO-cheque
incident and the cash transaction with Mrs.
Doyle. The commissioner could find on the
evidence that Arthur was unwise and indiscreet
to continue his association with Doyle.
Mr. Eric Miller, Q.C. (for J. G. Arthur),
said the commission was asked whether Arthur
had acted corruptly or improperly and that
should be answered ‘‘yes” or “no.” It had
not been asked whether he had acted unworthily,
undecorously, indiscreetly or unwisely. Mere
association with a criminal could not be con-
sidered improper. It might be unwise, but
the commission was not concerned with mere
association. The actions, dealings and transac-
tions mentioned did not touch Arthur as a
Minister or as a member. There was no
action of his which could be considered a
breach of duty.
Judge Amsberg: But there were 1400 reasons
why Mr. Arthur should not have encouraged
Doyle’s friendship Mr. Arthur ought not
to have encouraged the friendship of a man
he knows is a scoundrel.
Mr. Miller: He did not know.
Judge Amsberg: A man guilty of “monstrous
conduct”! The inescapable fact)is that Arthur
could not have failed to know that Doyle
was an unworthy associate.
In regard to Arthur’s holding of Constructors,
Ltd., shares, Mr. Miller said there was nothing
in the Constitution Act which laid down that
a Minister could not remain a shareholder of
a company which had contractual relations
with the Government. Arthur’s act in seeking
advice from the Attorney-General and in
resigning his directorship called for the highest
commendation. It was dangerous and unsound
to suggest that a finding should be made against
Arthur based on his association with Doyle.
POLITICAL POINTS
Tipping the date for the Budget has
replaced tipping what taxes will be cut
as the most popular guessing competition
in the daily papers. Those who were
plumping for August 26 can write off
their chances ; Menzies “doesn’t think it
possible” and Fadden gives it “an em-
phatic denial.”
0 0
N. S. Wales Parliament will reopen
next Wednesday without waiting for the
return of Premier Cahill, who is not
flying back after all, but sticking to his
original programme of a long sea-voyage
home. September 4 is now given as the
date of his return to Sydney and harsh
reality ; Treatfs on the same boat.
0 0
East Berliners, according to the cables,
are eagerly collecting the free food-
parcels made available to them at dis-
tribution centres in the Western sector.
Unable to stop the traffic, the Reds are
condemning these American relief-gifts
as “propaganda.” If that is their attitude
they should easily be able to counteract
it. Why don’t they set up a free-food
stall in East Berlin for the benefit of West
Berliners?,
0 0
Chief Milkman J. A. Ferguson, whose
training as boss of the Federal A.L.P. has
enabled him, as chairman of the Milk
Board, to give Sydney housewives the
dearest milk they’ve ever had, looks like
excelling himself. His latest idea is a
threat to charge sixpence deposit on every
milk-bottle. Sixpence! Soft-drink
people charge 2d. or 3d.; beer-bottles
(for those who can get ’em) come free.
0 0
On hearing that the South Australian
Government was investigating a proposal
to bituminise the Eudunda-Renmark
road and another to bridge the Murray
at sundry crossings, Murrayside councils
announced they’d settle for the bridges.
So would pretty well everybody else, ex-
cept the S.A. railways, which don’t want
road transport improved or helped in
any way. .
0 0
When the chairman of North
Coast Steam accused the N, S‘. Wales rail-
ways of trying to eliminate sea competi-
tion, Acting-Premier Heffron commented
that “the railways could not be expected
to forgo carrying freight for the benefit
of a private concern.” North Coast’s
g.-m. came back with the remark that
rail-freights to Lismore had been cut by
50 per cent., and that this could only be
regarded as a “drastic .effort to eliminate
sea competition.” He said that if the
railways could make such a reduction and
still, despite deficits, claim they were
economical, then the same percentage
reduction could be applied economically
throughout the whole State. So far
Heffron hasn’t announced any wholesale
reductions.
0 0
Announced that “a conference of State
agricultural representatives in Melbourne
on August 11 will try to work out a
plan to stamp out blackmarketing in
potatoes and prevent high prices.” Black-
marketing cannot be stopped while official
controls exist. This is as true of potatoes
as of anything else. The first step to-
wards abolishing blackmarketing is to
abolish controls.
0 0
Vic., Institute of Public Affairs has dis-
covered another Australian triumph. We
may be only third in consumption of
paper and steel and second in petrol-
consumption, but we’ve got ’em all beat
in one thing:
Cinema —Seats per 1000 people.
B5
Russia 25
U.K ' 83
Australia 138
U.S.A. .' .. 95
0 0
This week’s fairy story: Once upon a
lime there was a “Labor” politician who
was very interested in the gee-gees, the
dogs and the trots, but who never seemed
to get any good information and never
claimed to have had a big win . . ,
Grayden, M.H.R. for Swan (W.A.), is
off on an expedition to the Rawlinson
ranges, near the W.A.-S.A. border, to
check reports of “an iron box and the
remains of cart-wheels” which it is
thought may be relics of Leichhardt’s
expedition. It should be an interesting
trip, but before he set out it might have
been just as well to check whether Leich-
hardt took any carts on his last expedi-
tion.
0 0
One of Australia’s oldest Parliamen-
tarians died in Perth recently—Sydney
Stubbs, M.L.A. for Wagin from 1911 to
1947 and Speaker of the Westralian
Assembly from 1930-1933. He was 92.
0 0
Sydney City Council is considering a
suggestion that Lord Mayor Hills should
confer with his confreres in other capital
cities on means of obtaining revenue
from Government properties at present
exempt from rates. The chairman of the
council’s finance committee claims that
the council loses every year almost a
million pounds in rates on exempted pro-
perties. He’s wrong, of course. The
COMEDY HARMONISTS
council doesn’t lose a penny. The “almost
a million” is lost by the ratepayers who
have to mqke it up.
• •
Relating how a political opponent of
Moussadek has beeii living for three
months in the Persian Parliament House,
the “Courier-Mail” explains that under
an old Persian custom sanctuary can be
claimed in, among other places, the Par-
liamentary building or the house of some
prominent person. The quaint old custom
seems to be not entirely unknown in New
South Wales.
• •
In a radio-talk Opposition-leader Evatt
said that admission of Communist China
to U.N. was not a matter for discussion at
the Korean peace-talks. It was a matter
for the General Assembly, and the Peking
Government would have to take its place
in the queue with others seeking member-
ship. This roused Dr. John Burton to
attack his former patron and describe his
remarks as “misleading and inaccurate.”
It is interesting to reflect that if the
electors of Lowe had voted in 1951 as
Evatt and Burton urged them to Burton
would now be “Labor” M.H.R. for Lowe
and a loyal follower of Dr. Evatt. Well,
at least a follower.
• 0
N. S. Wales Cabinet is talking of
abolishing Saturday-morning shopping
and substituting a Friday-night shopping
period. No one seems to know just why,
but there’s a healthy suspicion that
railway- and tram-deficits have something
to do with it.
# 0
T. J. Ford, chairman of Queensland’s
potato board, accused Queensland Prices
Minister Power of lack of foresight and
no “realistic approach to price-control.”
Power retorted that the board had failed
to control the marketing of Queensland
potatoes and was responsible for several
thousands of bags of potatoes having
to be buried because they rotted. Ah, if
only we could get all these controllers at
each other’s throats!
• •
It’s rather pathetic the faith “Labor”
leaders have in lotteries. Victoria’s Mr.
Galvin says that a State lottery is more
necessary than ever because of the mess
the McDonald Government left Victoria’s
finances in. Galvin should take a glance
at the financial mess on the other side of
the Murray, in the Land of a Lottery-a-
Day.
• •
A. D. Hooper arrived at the Country-
party conference in Brisbane to announce
that a convention to organise a new State
for North Queensland would be held in
September or October. “Nothing will
stop it,” he declared. “The movement
is snowballing through North Queens-
land.” The job is to get it snowballing
through Brisbane and Canberra.
• •
Sydney branch of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation is running a cam-
paign urging recognition of Communist
China. A handbill advertising a Town
Hall meeting and headed “TVade, China
and You” includes the slogan “Aus-
tralia’s Future Depends on Overseas
Trade and Friendly Relations with all
People.” That’s quite true, but the
watersiders didn’t seem to think so a
few years ago when they put an illegal
ban on Dutch shipping and wrecked
trade with the East Indies.
o •
Vic. branch of the A.E.U. is talking.
about cutting-out the levy of Is. 4d. per
member a year to “Labor”-party funds be-
cause the A.L.P. “flouted union rules by
seeking court-conducted ballots.” How
these birds hate ballots that are safe
from rigging!
• •
A G.5.1.R.0. lecturer told a conference
of ham-and-bacon men in Melbourne
that “fear and fatigue in pigs” had a bad
effect on pig-meat. The warning seems
hardly necessary. Considering the price
their flesh brings nowadays the pig that
doesn’t die happy is a conceited hog.
• •
If the Federal Government intends a
redistribution of Victorian seats before
the next election for the Reps, it is leav-
ing the job rather late. The idea was to
co-operate with the Victorian Govern-
ment so that the latter would have a
reasonably stable basis to work on in
drawing its own two-for-one boundaries.
If Canberra doesn’t act soon Cain’s elec-
toral department may have to do its own
subdividing twice within a couple of
years, as a general adjustment of Federal
electorates will be due after next year’s
census, anyway.
• •
No more wandering Premiers have
clocked in since last issue.
• •
Victorian “Labor” M.L.A.’s are ex-
pected to seek a new salary-rise at the
next meeting of caucus. “Labor” men
say that the L.C.P. and the C.P. would
back a rise wholeheartedly. No mention
is made of the G.P.
General Bridgeford, chief executive for
the 1956 Olympic Games, is thinking of
getting the Olympic flame to Melbourne
by having it flown in a miner’s safety-
lamp over the ocean section of the
journey; the airline people object to
naked flames in aircraft cabins.
• •
Professing to be very concerned about
the “sale of public assets” —its name for
C.0.R., A.W.A., T.A.A. and other
public-owned outfits —to private in-
terests, the A.L.P. proposes to amend the
Constitution to prevent future such sales
unless the people vote for them by
referendum. If such a referendum were
held the result could easily be a big
shock for “Labor.” Imagine a referendum
on whether or not to sell the bankrupt
N.S.W. transport system!
• •
The latest Iron Curtain country to
show signs of unrest is China. There it is
reported that troops have been used to
subdue the workers at a Kweichow
Province distillery where about 400 were
killed and 1000 wounded before the riot
was quelled. It appears that the dastardly
toilers (incited no doubt by the agents
of American imperialism) thought a
working-day of 14 hours with no over-
time pay allowed a bit over the edge.
The local authorities shot the local Com-
munist secretary after quelling the riots.
No one, of course, need speculate on the
Australian Communist-party attitude if
the blood-drunk Fascist warmonger
Menzies were to bring home Comrade
Thornton to apply his expert knowledge
of Chinese methods of dealing with stop-
pages to the Australian stevedoring
industry.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Muskcen”: Why is it that escapers
from coolers and asylums are always
referred to in the Press as “escapees”?
A person who enters is not an entree,
although a long-haired intruder in skirts
might quite possibly be a nice dish.
<£♦ ij*
“Sister Ellell": In the centre of the
A.G.H. at Adelaide River (N.T.) 1943,
there was built a'bamboo Church. Con-
secrated and named- St. Luke’s by the
Bishop of Carpentaria, it was used by
all denominations. In the lull between
prayers you could hear the borers in the
bamboo, or the sergeants abluting in their
showers! Owing to the proximity to
the psychiatric ward, the church was
nicknamed “St. Neurosis.” Came the
day when we had o ;r first wedding;
one of the sisters married an officer from
down the line. Everyone helped, not the
least some engineers near by, who defaced
the coin of the realm by transforming
a shilling into a wedding-ring, leaving the
milling around the edge to give a neat
but not gaudy finish. As the bridal party
emerged from the church, a sergeant was
heard to remark, “There y’ are, Dig. All
the sheilas need up here is a bloke, a
bob and St. Neurosis, and they’re set
like a boarding-house jelly.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mem”: Health Department know
about this notice in a Brisbane butcher’s
shop?
WE BUY ONLY THE BEST
special, Attention oiven to
CHILDREN
“Hobo”: The following item in a
women’s paper “From infancy
children’s ears require special care ; water
should never be used for cleaning....”
inspires me to relate my own experience.
I realised the danger when quite a small
boy, after a nasty experience. One day
while I was using water on the lobes of
my ears I narrowly escaped being
splashed on the back Of the neck with
the fluid. So, as my missus has no
mechanical skill, I have taken charge of
the ear-cleaning of our seven, and have
developed a variety of methods. For
simple cases sandpaper is used followed
by blowing out with “free air” at the local
garage. Volatile matter, insects and vege-
tation may be removed by filling the ear
with petrol and igniting, but a word of
warning—this practice is attended by
some danger ; water may be introduced
to the ear unless the petrol is filtered
through chamois.
♦♦♦,, ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Orang Puteh”; I can carry the story
of the Lockheed wheel (B. 22/7/’53) a
little further. When I was in charge of
the guard at Mascot Aerodrome, Sydney,
towards the end of 1939 there was a
barnacle-encrusted aeroplane-wheel and
portion of undercarriage packed in a
crate and stored in a disused garage at
the aerodrome. We were told that the
wheel had been sent from Burma and
had been identified as belonging to
Smithy’s plane. It was apparently in the
same package in which it had been
received from Burma (or perhaps back
from the U.S.A.). The wheel excited a
good deal of curiosity at the time. I
wonder if it is still there.
* * ❖
“Mabsout”: The old-time bloodthirsty
anarchists and hell-roaring religious
fundamentalists seem to have retired
from the Sunday forum on Melbourne’s
Yarra-bank, and there’s an air of tired
intellectuality among the blase orators
that remain. However, a group of youth-
ful Irish immigrants have brought back
something of the old vitality. They
exhibit a large, green map of Ireland on
which Northern Ireland is represented by
a small orange blob. My encyclopsedia
tells me that union between north and
south “has been the subject of much dis-
cussion.” I realised that from the first
Sunday. The impassioned southern
speakers and their vehement northern
interjectors debate the matter uproari-
ously, and then partisans continue it in
fierce little bunches until long after the
rest of the Yarra-bank is deserted. The
heroes and villains of Irish history are
cursed as wholeheartedly as if their
doings were hot cable-news and the battles
and events of centuries are as fresh as
Saturday’s football. I suspect the
harangues are in some way tied up with
the movement for a brighter Sabbath.
♦♦♦
“Vingter”: In contrast with most forms
of pictorial advertising, there is one in
which the female of the species is not
depicted as widely smiling. This is in
lingerie advertising, where the lasses in
life-size dimensions and wispy “fallals”
always bear the same dead-pan expres-
sion Perhaps the advertising profession
has a code of ethics decreeing that the
scantily-clad lass must wear the wax-
dummy expression to remove any sug-
gestion that she is brazen or that the
preponderantly male beholders are
snoopers, as would be the case if her
pictured features registered smiles. Still,
underwear-advertising has made some
progress over the past 25 years. At the
denominational school of my youth we
had to walk an extra two miles when
going to town on “exeats” because the
normal school siding was placed out of
bounds—the railway-hoardings carried a
display ad. of a lady in armorplate
corsets. Recently at the same siding I
saw adolescents from the school swarm-
ing into the train entirely oblivious of
the posters showing young fem&les in
“Another forty-five wives and I ought to get a refund .”
comparison with whom the whaleboned
lady of 25 years ago would be over-
dressed.
<J+
“Piper”: Notice in our newsagent’s
shop; “We stock Greeting Cards for all
•your festive occasions—Weddings, Birth-
days, Engagements, Bereavement, Return-
thanks, etc.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mark O’Polo”: It’s a happy thought,
naming places around Kwinana (W.A.)
after the ships that brought the first
colonists out to the Swan River Settle-
ment, Kwinana itself being named after
a ship that ran into Westralia there, but
I can name dozens more worthy than
Medina for the first one (B. 15/7/’53).
First choice should go to Parmelia, the
450-ton ship in which Captain Stirling,
his wife and son and 64 other men, women
and children came out to found the new
settlement. With her arrival in Cockburn
Sound oh June 2, 1829, six days ahead
of H.M.S. Sulphur, her convoying man-
o’-war, the history of the Westralian
colony began. Calista, Amity, Georgiana,
Lotus, Ephemia, Orelia and Caroline
were among the ships that called with
settlers before the settlement had its first
Christmas. Medina has no comparable
claim ; she didn’t arrive until July 6 the
following year —the 49th arrival after
Parmelia,
♦♦♦ * *
“Airs-creW”: It is nearly 10 years since
I was stationed at an Observers’ School
on the Isle of Anglesey, learning the art
of navigation under English conditions.
Our morning lectures were brightened by
the break for a cup of tea and bite to eat
at a near-by cottage. There Betty served
out tea, assorted sandwiches and repartee
with equal aplomb. Her stock reply to
inquiries as to the sandwiches’ content
always brought a .laugh. Betty would say,
drawling her vowels, “Well, lad, there’s
ham, jam, lamb and spam,” One morn-
ing an embryo bomb-aimer came back
with “Wot! No cheese?” “Aye,”
replied Betty, “Edam.”
❖ * *
“Feng-Shui”: I see that the National
Foundation, a body of New York busi-
nessmen and labor organisations, which
is looking for five great men annually on
whom to bestow prizes of 40,000 dollars,
has asked Sir Winston Churchill, the
Archbishop of Canterbury, Sir Gilbert
Murray, Nehru and others to supply it
with a guiding definition. Churchill sug-
gested “people who make us proudest to
belong to the human race,” the arch-
bishop “anyone who has promoted greater
human liberty, the translator pf
Euripides “people who create beauty in
any field of living,” and Nehru “people
who have improved world understanding
on the plane of the spirit. I see nothing
to cavil at in the proposals, but how are
the men to be selected? Plenty of people
would say that Stalin promoted human
liberty, but a lot would say the reverse;
Picasso’s claim to having created beauty
would have strong support in certain
circles and none whatever in others. Dur-
ing the war Churchill himself would have
got a lot of British votes under his own
definition, but he wouldn’Chave got many
German votes —Hitler would probably
have got those. Everybody is in agree-
ment today about Socrates and Jesus in
terms of Nehru’s definition, but nobody
was when they were living; except a
handful of disciples. The same applies to
Rembrandt in the terms of Sir Gilbert’s
definition. From the evidence of the past,
therefore, there isn’t much hope of the
foundation choosing a great man for the
simple reason that great men are never
chosen. In the long-run they choose
themselves.
❖ ►> ❖
“F.S.”: The National Arts Foundation
of New York has asked for Australian
support for alteration of the rule limit-
ing to sporting themes entries for Olympic
Games art section. They should certainly
get it. The artist may bring the same
skill to the painting of a pole-jumper as
to the painting of an archbishop, but the
limitation of subject-matter is likely to
get in the way of his inspiration. It
is no good telling an artist to paint some-
thing he can’t feel —and that goes for the
playwright, the composer, the novelist
and even the sports themselves. It
wouldn’t be much good telling an Ameri-
can baseball-team to get desperately in-
terested in Australian Rules football. If
the Greeks had applied the rule to Euri-
pides, Sophocles and those lads we would
never have had the “Electra/’ the “Anti-
gone,” the “Trojan Women” and
“OEdipus Rex” —they were all written for
the Olympiads.
“Otarama”: The first Aorangi cer-
tainly rendered distinguished war service,
but she was not sunk at Anzac Cove (B.
ID/6/’53). In his book Union Line, a
history of the Union S.S. Co. of N.Z.,
S. D. Waters has this to say of the end
of this old Pacific liner:
War service of an unusual nature fell
to the lot of the veteran first Aorangi,
which had been laid up at Sydney after
her withdrawal from the San Francisco
trade. Early in 1915 she went to England
and was requisitioned ’by the Admiralty
for use as a supply ship. Later in that
year, the Aorangi and several other old
steamers were scuttled as blockships in the
Holm Sound entrance to Scapa Flow, as
part of the anti-submarine defences of the
Orkney Islands base pf the Grand Fleet.
The Aorangi rested on the sea-bed for five
years and was refloated on September 8,
1920. Her hull was found to be in
remarkably sound condition and she was
converted into a store hulk. As such she
did duty for some years before finally
passing to the shipbreakers.
THE RUSSIAN QUESTION
“Radio-stations in East Germany now offer
money prizes to quiz-teams with the object ot
giving listeners more entertainment and less
politics.”
Who was it wrote Shakspeare’s plays ?
Was it Lenin ? Yes, or no ?
Get it wrong, and in disgrace
To Siberia you go.
Who pinched Marx’s Capital?
Does the world like Malenkov ?
Why did poo{ old Beria fall ?
Will the next be Molotov ?
If your answer beats the gong
Many roubles are your fee ;
Even if you get it wrong
You can win a coffin, free.
Ours is not like those uncouth
Quizzes of democracies ;
Ours is to establish truth,
Not just win or lose a prize. .
We don’t like to see a man
Liquidated on a guess,
But to help him, if we 'can.
Win, or, as we say, confess.
What our means and patient care,
Winners might explain to you.
But the most successful are.
Sad to say, unable to.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Mentor”: Much confusion at our
school when a primary-grade teacher was
called to the telephone. “These boys in
your class?” asked the caller, naming
three lads. “Yes, they’re in class now,”
answered the schoolie. “Oh, no, they’re
not,” said the cajler. “Police-station
here; we’ve just picked them up for
pinching knives from the Greek cafe.”
The youngsters had sneaked out of
school, grabbed the loot and been caught
with it —all within ten minutes.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Cauboy”: Keith Michell, the Adelaide
actor whose magnificent Hotspur has
stolen the limelight from Falstaff in
“Henry IV,” now current at Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne, is the first Shakspearian
mummer I know of to get away with a
mannerism for which there is no docu-
mentary warrant. He makes Hotspur
stammer whenever a “w” comes up and,
his last dying word being “worms,” he
can’t get it out and Prince Henry has
to supply it for him. That noted ex-
ponent of the Bard, Alan Wilkie, had a
mannerism—in moments of high emotion
he showered the "air and most of his own
person with spray and I always admired
the devotion with which the actor or
actress playing opposite to him stood up
to the bombardment, without flinching—
in the case of Miss Hunter-Watts, very
often at the closest quarters. However,
in Wilkie’s case it was quite involuntary
and unconscious; every character he
played had it.
♦♦♦
“Mullum”: Sleeping on duty (B.
15/7/ ’53)? Most telegraphists can tell
tales of receiving messages subcon-
sciously, but I once saw a cove take one
in his sleep. The only trouble was that
when he got to the edge of the paper
he continued on, across the blotting-pad
and then across the table. Fortunately
the message ended just before he reached
the edge of that, and when he awoke he
was able to copy the message onto the
proper form. I’ve met several blokes
who claimed to be able to sleep through
the heaviest static, and be awakened by
the first sound of morse. I never heard
of any of them being caught, except Joe.
When he fell asleep one night, his arm
fell across the morse-key, and jammed
the wave-length for hundreds of miles.
What a panic that caused till, after a
couple of frantic trunk-line caffs and a
wild dash in a jeep, he was jolted back
to wakefulness,
<s*
“8.A.K.”: M. H, Ellis mentioned Dr.
Harris and Ultimo House (B. 15/7/’53),
but didn’t say where the mansion was
situated. Littlebridge, the home of
William Henry Harris —probably a son—
is stiff standing, although in a shocking
state of disrepair. A two-storeyed build-
ing with a tower, it was obviously a
splendid structure in its day, but now
there is something pathetic in the sight
of a huge marble-floored back-veranda
leading to a doorway over which stiff
hang the remnants of seven brass bells —
doubtless used to summon the servants
from the near-by kitchen—while the iron
roof above is rusted into fragments.
However, the estate was. bequeathed to
the City Council to be made into
children’s playgrounds, tennis- and
basketball-courts, etc., and the .house will
be repaired and equipped as a baby-clinic
and library. Littlebridge faces William
Henry-street and the grounds terminate at
Harris-street—thus perpetuating the full
name of the first owner. In the corner a
small bank stands ; the land was donated
some years back for the building of “a
children’s bank.” Incidentally, that was
the bank which Dugan and Mears held-
up, seriously wounding an official in the
attempt,
* ❖ *
“Lord Luvus”: The consternation
caused in France at the discovery that
myxomatosis is attacking rabbits all over
the country can only be understood in
relation to the importance of bunny in
the French cuisine. Invited to the house
of a Parisian who prided himself on his
cooking, I was a little disappointed
when the cover was lifted to observe that
it was rabbit. The Frenchman was
puzzled when he saw my face fall. I
had expected at least chicken. Rabbits
are so highly prized by French gastro-
nomes that they are specially bred for
the table —but, of course, it is the way
they cook them. Another important
function of the rabbit is as a sporting
subject, and the ammunition firms are
facing bankruptcy, as 80 p.c. of their
production goes to rabbit-hunters. The
fellow who allegedly introduced myxo. to
France to wipe out rabbits on his estate
seems to have acted with the best in-
tentions. He had a high stone wall round
his property, but apparently didn’t know
that the disease was spread by mosquitoes.
♦ ❖ *
“Dulcinea”: It was an unpleasant day,
and as the little old lady with the wispy
hair and the faded umbrella pushed her
way into the crowded shop she looked
completely fed-up. “Unpleasant out this
morning, isn’t it?” said the salesgirl as
she handed over the asked-for pound of
butter. “Oh, it’s not the inclement
weather I mind, dear,” replied the old
lady. “It’s the inhuman race.” So saying,
she determinedly cleared a way for her-
self with the point of her umbrella and
left the shop.
■ A
❖ ♦♦♦
“Wai-Weer”: A source of potential
dollars has been tapped by English
opportunists who are making up various
articles of furniture and novelties from
steering-wheels, teak and mahogany tim-
ber, etc., salvaged from old ships.
Navigation-lamps are fashioned into
porch- and hall-lights, and such items as
“I heard you were advertising for a modernist model.”
paper-knives also find ready sale. A
metal plaque on each supplies particu-
lars of origin. There’s a chance for
Australian beach-siders to turn some of
the wrecks lying along their shores to
profitable account. In Tasmania the
man who bought the remains of Con-
rad’s old vessel has turned out sundry
lines of souvenirs such as pen-handles,
and movable parts of the ship have been
eagerly snapped up. In Torres Straits
a crowd of wrecks is strewn about, and
from time to time the islanders come
across stuff which goes back a couple of
centuries of so, including Spanish
dollars. The capstan-top of the lost
China tea-clipper Windhover, a collec-
tion of ships’ bells, old daggers and
cutlasses, queer-shaped brass imple-
ments, and odd lines of crockery and
glass are among some of the items I’ve
seen which have been brought up from
those waters. The Quetta Memorial
Church at Thursday Island houses a
"No, it's not mine—I'm baby-sitting tonight .”
number of relics from that and other
ill-fated ships.
% & &
“Bo”: I have long held profound
admiration for the miracle achievements
of Hollywooden heroes. I have watched,
entranced, as some perfectly-groomed
hombre has rushed through the western
landscape on his paint pony relentlessly
pursuing some celluloid dastard what
time he has been able to pump, without
bothering to reload, 24 bullets out of
his six-chambered squirt. I have
observed with great envy the magnificent
confidence with which some fellow has
switched on his radio and leaned back,
knowing fuff well that —so unlike my
own set, which invariably takes at least
10 seconds for the valves to warm up —
his will yield fuff volume instan-
taneously, And the magical spell, too,
that he must weave to be able to pick
up the phone, put through a caff from
N’ York to ’Frisco, and be connected
with the callee before he has time to
light his cigarette. And what of the
handsome hero involved in the indooi
fight, who is slammed over the head
with a heavy chair, gets tossed down a
steep flight of stairs, is immediately
jumped on from 20ft. by his opponent,
and then heaves himself up and delivers
the k. 0., the only disability suffered by
him being a misplaced marcelled lock?
But all such feats of miracle-working
pale into nothing beside the exploit of
my latest hero. He was able, with utter
nonchalance, to place his gift of a neck-
lace around his lady’s throat and snap
the catch instanter. I, whose clumsiness
in this duty has become a byword in my
household, have that example now held
up ever before me.
*
“Jindivick”: A Sydney yachtsman,
wanting a winch for his craft, put
an ad. in the paper, got on to what
he was seeking in a distant suburb, and
tried to ring the missus and tell her to
inform inquirers that he had what he
wanted. Line engaged. After several
tries, he rang his office and asked
the junior to phone his wife and
tell her that he had the ideal winch in his
car. Then he backtracked to the
office, where he got a real old-fashioned
look from the kid on the switch, a
giggle or two from the other members
of his staff, but no comments. At home
his wife was waiting for him. “Where is
she?” the lady asked. “Where’s who?”
asked the skipper. “The wench —the ideal
wench you’ve got in your car,” Repu-
tations get blasted just as easily as that.
Fortunately she is a yachting type, too.
Otherwise it might well have marked the
beginning of the rocky road to the divorce
court.
❖ * *
“Lyle”: Even men whose names are
household words to one generation are
often forgotten in the next. A neighbor
of mine had a fox-terrier named Buffer.
“I suppose you called him after Sir
Redvers Buffer,” my father, an old Boer
War veteran, once remarked. “No,”
said the other. “Who’s he ?” A similar
instance from another walk of life. A
youngster told me his boss’s name was
Gibson, “but all the seniors call him
‘Hoot.’ It’s a funny nickname, I won-
der hdw he got it?” The lad is a keen
filmgoer, with a yen for westerns, quite
familiar with today’s Gene Autry and
Roy Rogers.
❖ *X* *l*
“H.E.R.”: I’ve always understood
that England got its name fronv the Angles
who conquered it in company with the
Saxons and Jutes, but a Swedish friend
has a different theory. “Engle, angle,” he
says, “are Swedish for ‘field’ and
‘fields.’ The Scandinavians named it,
as Eric the Red named Greenland and
Lief Ericson named America ‘Vinland.’ ”
Any historic basis for this?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sebak”; No doubt there is some
point in giving Sydney Harbor Bridge
motorists a toll-ticket, but the system has
its failings. What is one supposed to do
with a toll-ticket after it has been shoved
in one’s hand? A theatre-ticket must be
handed to an usher, a tram-ticket held
lest an inspector demand to see it. But
what happens to a toll-ticket? Anybody
who really wants to know should visit
the King George V Memorial Bowling
Green, just below the southern approach
to the Bridge. At rush periods he could
well think himself lost in a Canadian
snowstorm. The sad, resigned expression
on the greenkeeper’s face was the goad
that urged me to develop my brainchild:
Every three months a prize of, say, a
dozen bottles should be given for the
lucky-number toll-ticket. If I know
Sydneysiders, not another ticket would
be thrown away.
RELUCTANT CONVICTION
Where is the spouse who hasn’t yet
Declared in terms extremely strong
That multitudinous jobs beset
Her, keep her flat-out all day long?
She’s quite emphatic, too, that she
Among all slaves is Number One;
That one more pair of hands* would be
For her a boon of high degree;
And that her work is never done.
And where the Jack who with his Jill
Believes that what she claims is true —
Except the last bit ? That he will
Believe, even as I, or you.
She’d spend a lot of time, he’d say,
Upon the phone in hour-long yarn.
That pile of socks that’s stowed away.
Remissness must at least betray;
For work she mustn’t give a darn !
Comes'tonsillitis, gastric turn, --
Her lord perforce confined to bed;
How opportune then to discern
This so-called slave-life that she’s led!
She’s in and out with food and tray,
Fussing around with this and that.
What work the woman did, he’d say.
He’d clean up in an hour a day,
If not he’d masticate his hat.
Some weekends later down goes Mum
With flu. His turn to sweep, to dust.
To deal with kids so wranglesome.
Well, what a way to earn a crust!
To cook, to wash-and-wipe, to clean.
To iron and air, to make the bed;
To peel the spud and string the bean—
From all of which, you well may glean
(And it could easily be foreseen )
He feels there might, with this routine.
Be something, now, in what she said.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


When it's an
I
Exude—you start!
Hxibt
BATTERIES
EXIOE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNBT
KZUf
PERSONAL ITEMS
Thirty years’ service on behalf of lepers
of the Pacific Islands has won for P. J.
Twomey, of Christchurch (N.Z.), recogni-
tion by the French Government —the
Medaille d’or des Epidemics, presented
through the Governor of New Caledonia.
In a covering letter to Twomey, Dr.
Filippi, director of health in New Cale-
donia, said the medal was “even more
difficult to obtain than the Legion of
Honor,” as it was mostly awarded post-
humously to people who died from con-
tracting a disease while working to
combat it.
“C. 8.”: Reported from London that
archeologists working beneath the blitzed
St. Bride’s Church in Fleet-street found
coffins, thousands of skulls, the remains
of at least three earlier churches and
finally the site of one of the earliest out-
posts of Roman civilisation. Directing
the excavations is Professor Frederick
Wood Jones, one-time Professor of
Anatomy at Melbourne University and
one of the world’s greatest authorities on
bones. It was while he was in Mel-
bourne that he published his controver-
sial work which sought to prove that man
was descended not from the monkey, but
from the spectral tarsius of Borneo.
Earlier on the cable-staff at Cocos Island
as a doctor, he revalued Darwin’s theory
of the formation of coral atolls. When
he was in Melbourne he tried to prove
to the authorities that when they hanged
a man they didn’t break his neck but
slowly choked him to death, and sug-
gested a different method. Some of his
unorthodoxies weren’t very well received
in university circles. He married a
daughter of one of the Ross dynasty of
Cocos.
Having done his share of shepherding
in the Church of England—6o years of
it—George Herbert Jose, Dean of Ade-
laide, is calling it a day. One-time
surveyor, chaplain in War I, he began
his work as a missionary in China in
1893, but for the past 50 years has been
in S. Australia —acting-bishop at times.
The Australian Wine Producers’ Association
lost a solid P.R.O. when Len Saunders passed
on in Sydney. In the drought of the ’eighties
round Dubbo, the Saunders people, after
digging in the Macquarie’s bed for water,
walked off their property. Young Len got to
Sydney on a tenner won in a Bulletin epigram
competition, in which Dowell O’Reilly came
second. Len waded into journalism, to work
dn just about every Sydney daily, and to
become vice-president of the A.J.A. when Tom
Mutch was president. When phylloxera threat-
ened Australia’s wine-trade with New Zealand
—it was thought the disease could be trans-
mitted even in bottled wine—Saunders, who
had specialised in primary-industry journalism,
was sent by the N.S.W. Government to inter-
cede with the Seddon Government. He did
the job so well that the Maorilanders retained
him to investigate the possibility of growing
their own wine. Back home, Saunders left
journalism to play a big part in helping the
Australian wine-industry, and after War I lec-
tured Diggers on grape-growing. A dream of
his was to see power-machines doing the
farmer’s work for them —he started “Power
Farming In Australia” to help implement it.
At the end, and for years before, he had been
P.R.O. for the Wine Producers’ Association,
and personally, in his robust health, looked
a tip-top advertisement for his own view that
there are none finer than Australia’s wines.
He was 73 .
Maxwell Newton, a 24-year-old of
Perth (W.A.), was one of two Cambridge
students to graduate with first-class
honors in economics this year. A Perth
Modern School boy, he went on to the
Westralian University to win the Hackett
scholarship, which took him to
Cambridge in 1951. Plums picked
from Cambridge are an honorary scholar-
ship to Clare College for the next
• academic year, and a Wrenbury research
scholarship awarded to the best eco-
nomics student in each jjear of study.
Newton is now with the British Treasury
at Australia House, researching into the
development of Australian economy from
1925 to 1950. He’s represented Westralia
at hockey.
Shedding mprtar-board and gown at
the end of the year, Robert G. Cameron
has held the Chair of Education in the
Westralian University since it was estab-
lished in 1927 and been Dean of the
Faculty of Education since it was sepa-
rated from the arts-course in 1948. A
trim, dapper Sydney graduate, he was
taught to teach in the N.S.W. Education
Department and was one of the first batch
of students trained by Alexander Mackie,
Sydney’s first Professor of Education. In
Westralia, he has supervised the training
of generations of teachers, and was a
pillar of wisdom to the A.B.C. in the
formative period of educational broad-
casting.
“M’lander”; Dr. Colin O. Hutton, one-
time lecturer in geology at Otago Uni-
versity (N.Z.), now Professor of Petro-
logy at Stanford University, California,
has been awarded the Guggenheim
Fellowship—one of America’s coveted
distinctions. The -award is made annually
to 100 adepts in various fields of learning
in the U.S., Canada, Central and Latin
America. A product of John McQlashan
and Otago University Colleges, and later
of Cambridge, the Enzedder went to the
U.S. in 1948 to fill his present job, and
to also join the Atomic Energy Commis-
sion.
Inspected hereunder. Dr. Frank Still-
well, recently retired from o.i.c. of
C.5.1.R.0.’s Mineragraphic Section. A
Melbourne University graduate, he went
south with Mawson in 1911, mapping the
coastline of Adelie Land and later pub-
lishing a study of the area’s rocks which
attracted worldwide interest and gained
him his doctorate. Mineragraphy—the
study of polished surfaces of the opaque
ore-minerals, with the reflecting micro-
scope—became his baby, and he visited
Europe, S. Africa and the U.S. to study
it. On return in 1923 he took a minera-
graphic look at the Broken Hill lode, thus
revealing the economic and scientific pos-
sibilities of the then-new science. He
followed with a similar survey of the
Kalgoorlie ores, built his mineragraphic
section into a highly-efficient unit, and
gained, according to C.5.1.R.0., which
should know, an insight into the pro-
cesses of ore-deposition no other Aus-
ORE
tralian geologist has achieved. The
Royal Society of Victoria has made
him its president; the Royal Society
of N.S.W. in 1951 awarded him
its Clarke Memorial Medal, struck
in memory of the first Australian geo-
logist ; and, recently, he has been created
a corresponding-member of the Geo-
logical Society of America, the highest
honor that body can bestow on a
foreign geologist. As well, he’s a member
of the Glenferrie Hill (Vic.) Bowling
Club, though on his eminence therein
C.5.1.R.0. has not reported.
Variously actor-singer with Tait-
Williamsons, building-contractor, car-
salesman, goldminer in Westralia, Roy
Glenister joined the A.B.C. in Perth in
1930, announcer. Studio-manager when
he left W.A. for Queensland, assistant-
manager, he had three years anchored
there, then took off for Moresby, boss of
the A.BC.’s New Guinea air-waves. He
was wandering round the Continent on
leave towards the end of last year when
word came for him to return Brisbane-
wards, manager till relieved. Now await-
ing the call to further travel, Glenister
can take that all right. He was at
AIR
Gallipoli in the first war, and got much
farther than that in the second —war-
correspondent,
“Nobby the Second’s” goodbye (with
affidavit):
Retired from the arduous and frigid job of
C.-in-C., Allied Forces in Northern Europe,
Admiral Sir Patrick Brind, who successfully
concealed,, from everybody except I Who’s Who
that his real first-name was Eric. One of the
most urbane of naval officers, his background
was military, his father being a colonel in the
Connaught Rangers, and his brother command-
ing the International Force in. the Saar at the
time of Hitler’s eruption. Starting in Osborne
and Dartmouth, Sir Patrick began War II as
a captain and was promoted rear-admiral in
1942. His first job in flag-rank was assistant-
Chief of Naval Staff. A highly experienced
cruiser wallah who had commanded Orion,
Birmingham and Excellent, he came here
in 1945 in command of cruisers of the B.P.F.
Benign, but with the natural firmness of the
English paterfamilias, he bore the nickname of
“Daddy,” apart from which he was famous
for his height, in which he was rivalled only
by Sir Bernard Rawlings and the 6ft. s|in.
Bens|ead, the Fleet Instructor-Captain. There
is a story of a couple of one-stripers on
deck in harbor who were contemplating rising
fish one sunset. “What about breakfast?” said
one. “No tackle,” answered the other. “£ut
a hook and sinker on Daddy.” “Won’t reach.”
“Well, splice Rawlings on and use Benstead for
a rod.”
“Jindivick”: Following his partner.
Brigadier Rex Rabett, into retirement
from the Sydney real-estate firm of Raine
and Home, Henry Thompson joined the
concern way back before the depression,
office-boy. He leaves it managing-director.
The new firm of Raine and Horne
Pty., Ltd., will be headed by E.
R. Raine, son of the founder and
also Thompson’s partner in the early
days. In 60 years with the one firm,
Thompson totted-up a knowledge of real-
estate and property-values probably un-
surpassed in Australia. Board-member
of the Real Estate Institute, twice its
president, and still hoh. secretary of the
Associated Real Estate Institutes and
Agents’ Associations, he reckons he can
give quite a few years yet to real-estate.
His old firm will retain him for consulta-
tion.
“Macnell”; Having seen some of it, I
doubt if any man alive can better the
ropework of Captain F. I. Maitland, a
specimen of which has been accepted
by the Queen for the new Royal Yacht.
Comprising thousands of intricate knots,
many of them strangers to atom-age
mariners—Turk’s heads, rose-and-star
knots, diamond knots, and some very
rare rose and tiger-lily knots—the gift
is in the shape of a bell-rope for the
mirrored brass of the yacht’s hour-toller
Maitland first tasted salt as an eight-
year-old in North Sea sailing-trawlers
Till recently he could be found in a
yacht-rigging shop in Sydney’s Erskine-
street, spiced with the tang of Stockholm-
tar and new hemp. In 1938, after a
faithful 50 years in sail (he recalls his
first oilskin suit was made of potato sacks
delicately waterproofed with paint), he
came ashore, to be co-opted by the Yanks
not long afterwards to train their water-
transport men in New Guinea, Now,
still sprightly though frosty-pated, with a
weathered face of a texture which could
fit companionably in a teak deck, he is
mainly concerned with perpetuating the
old sailorman’s fast-dying craft of rope-
work. This he is doing through his two
sons. One of his bellropes rests with
cruiser Sydney ; another, presented to
Admiral Mountbatten, graces the bell of
a naval officers’ school in England.
“Uramao”: After 50 years’ with
Kodak (N.Z.), managing-director H. A,
Beauchamp has closed his shutters. He
started with Baker and Rouse in Sydney
in 1896, and on that firm’s amalgamation
with Kodak in 1908 crossed to N.Z.
as travelling salesman.' He opened
and managed the first Enzed branch in
Wellington in 1909 and then proceeded
to plant others in Auckland, Dunedin
and Christchurch.
Admiral Byrd was the first explorer to
take a fully mechanised expedition to
the Antarctic, Next January a smaller
show of the same order will leave Mel-
bourne, to establish a research-station in
the Australian section of that ocean s.w,
of Westralia. Included will be a tractor,
a machine for ripping ice and another
for digging postholes. With them will go
Melburnian William Dingle, of the Com-
monwealth meteorological staff, and
Robert O. Summers, a young medico, of
Brighton, and R.A.A.F. pilot in the late
war. Antarctic Australia is nearly the
same size as its big brother. Robert
Dovers, an old hand at 32, will lead the
expedition. A Wollongong (N.S.W.)
surveyor, he’s served on Heard and Mac-
quarie Islands and was Australian
observer with the French on Adelie Land
last year.
4
Into the Silence;
In Sydney, at 61, Lance Mattinson, who got
to know his Diggers as a field-ambulanceman
in France and Belgium in War I, and presented
their humor to Australians through ten years
of joke-block drawing on “Smith’s Weekly.”
Immediately after War I he was offered the
job of sports-cartoonist on the old London
“Daily Herald,” stayed there 14 years, and
came home, to join “Smith’s,” in 1935. His
first joke-block, sent in from Perth at the age
of 16, was published in The Bulletin.
In Brisbane, at 66, Joe McKenna, scion of
an old pioneering family of north-west Tas-
mania and known from the Philippines to
Papua as a rubber-planter. He started on
Mindanao in 1911, and after eight years shifted
to Myalie plantation, near Kanosia, out from
Moresby. A leading amateur rider in Tassie
in earlier days, he owned to one political belief
—that* New Guinea should become Australia’s
seventh State.
In Albany (W.A.), at 99, Mrs. T.
Norman, believed to be the oldest Westralian-
born woman. An elder sister, now deceased,
beat her for the honor of being the first white
girl born in Albany. Mrs. Norman had lived
in the district all her life, and left 104 descen-
dants.
In Brisbane, at 72, James McCann, the one-
time commercial traveller who founded the
North Australia Rubber Mills in Brisbane—
the trade-name “Narm” might' mean more to
tennis-players and other sandshoe-wearers. A
Scot, he tried Natal, then New Zealand, crossed
to Brisbane in 1909 and stayed there. He had
been in pretty well every club and business-
committee in Brisbane, including the Queens-
land Chamber of Manufactures and Employers’
Federation, of which bodies he’d been president.
In Perth, at 59, Frank Irwin Webster, Old
Digger and senior militia-officer of many years’
service. Severe wounds on Gallipoli ended his
service in War I, but he was in command of
the Westralian detachment which paraded at
Canberra for the opening of the Federal
Parliament, in 1927. When Hitler became
troublesome, Webster got into khaki again and,
with the rank of lieut.-colonel, commanded
the first school for A.I.F. N.C.O.s at Fre-
mantle, and was, later, C.O. of the general
details camp at Claremont.


BEAUTIFICATION


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wai-Weer”: By both white and
black, Venus seems to be recognised as
an authority on the affairs of the heart.
On Damley Island, in Torres Strait, a
big stone stands on the beach known to
the natives as Duel. Crudely shaped
in the form of a woman, it has a counter-
part in the heavenly constellations also
called Iluel, the same star which we
identify as Venus. Native youths with
marital urgings make their way to the
beach at stated times provided with a
supply of small pebbles. A few feet
from Iluel, the dusky wife-seeker
stands and throws a pebble at her bust,
at the same time uttering the name of a
girl who may be on his fist of eligibles.
While doing this, he keeps an eye on
Iluel up above; if she shows no
apparent difference in brightness he
throws another, using the name of a
different girl, repeating the process until
suddenly Huel seems Jo express her
approval by brighter scintillations. Satis-
fied, he goes homeward to carry out
courting arrangements, and lets the
family know that it is time to fatten up
a couple of pigs by way of gift to the
relatives of his prospective bride.
* * * *
“Burindi”: I never believed it possible
for sheep to five without water, until, hav-
ing spent years in the dry outback, 1
took over a small property in the hills
between Mullaley and Tambar Springs
(N.S.W.), At first I was filled with appre-
hension when, on the insistent advice of
the locals, I shoved a mob into 1000 acres
of mountain courttry, in which absolutely
no water existed, one early-winter
day. For weeks I rode that paddock
every day, searching for corpses, for dying
jumbucks huddled in corners, but all I
saw were fat and contented woollies
growing plumper. For four months
/buy "S ” Soap ~
“Should charge more for inverted commas."
they subsisted on dew, plus the juices of
thistle and bull-nettle, and at the end of a
hard, dry winter were in prime condition
—better, in fact, than sheep which had
been livingv during the same period on
well-watered flats along the creek.
* * * •
“Arthur R.”; That article on Steele
Rudd (B. 22/7/’53) brings to mind the
time when, with some misgivings, I
loaned a copy of The Bulletin’s
original On Our Selection to a maiden
aunt. That evening I called to find her
reading it aloud to her elder sister. The
reading went after this fashion; “D-and-
a-dash-and-a-Hem you, Dave. Good
THA
qotiaa
“The funny part about it is he's never had a drawing-lesson."
capital G-an-O-and-a-D, man, why the
aitch-and-a-dash-and-a-double-ell did you
want to do that?” Both old dears would
pause and chuckle. They had been bom
on a farm and everything was so real
to them. Davis told me that he got the
character of Major Knockpin from
Major Pinnock, an irascible old civil
servant with whom he was associated
in the Sheriff’s office. Pinnock would
say: “You write a very good hand,
Davis; a lovely hand. But, damme, how
the hell does anyone manage to read it?”
* * * *
“Gulliver”: Westralia’s Afghans are —
or used to be, when the weed was about
a bob a plug—as prodigal of tobacco as
“Laetitia’s” Torres Straits boys (B.
22/7/’53) were thrifty. The ’Ghan’s
water-pipes, consisting simply of a dis-
carded pickle-bottle, a bowl and a mouth-
piece, held a colossal amount of tobacco,
and stoking was a long and delicate per-
formance. Lighting it, the filler took a
draw, which seemed to start about the
knees and end by puffing out his chest like
a pouter-pigeon’s. He then held his breath
and allowed the draught to soak in, hand-
ing the awesome machine to the man next
him, who took a similar draw and handed
it on. By the time the pipe had made the
circle, the first man was just beginning to
ooze grey wreaths, releasing the smoke
as slowly as possible and still, to my
astonished eyes, in possession of his
faculties. One suck seemed enough for
each —the amazing thing was that it
wasn’t more than enough. It would have
paralysed a white man.
“Old-timer”: Little Curl got hold of
one of those American “tonic” books
which tell you how to make friends and
be popular. The basis of its philosophy
was that if you put up a smile and kept
it there you couldn’t go wrong. L.C.,
normally a somewhat long-faced youth,
decided to give it a go. All that week
he went about the station with a fixed
grin which neither chiacking nor sarcasm
could shift. On the Saturday we headed
for town. The first two people Curl saw
were two young women, strangers to
him. He promptly threw them a smile.
They tossed their heads. Curl went on,
smiling. We were in the pub washing
the week’s dust out when a solid bloke
came in, a stranger. He glowered at
Curl, who smiled at him. “You’re the
so-and-so tried t’ be flash t’ me sisters,”
the stranger said, and went for Curl.
Curl gave as good as he got. We pulled
them apart and the bloke shot through.
Four days later the trooper called at the
station and handed Curl a bluey charg-
ing him with (a) offensive behavior to
females and ( b ) assault while on licensed
premises. Later, the Beak accepted
Curl’s explanation and our evidence as
to good* character, discharged him and
warned him to be good in the future.
Curl has maintained a one-man ban on
Yankee books ever since.
* * * *
/ -*■ -
“Kelms”: I watched some little pied
cormorants feeding in a swamp which
has a small deep centre and a big expanse
of shallow water only a few inches deep.
That the shallow water is well-stocked
is evident from the activities of the
cranes which feed in it, but the shags
stick to the small section of deep water.
They occasionally move into the shallows,
but though titbits must be swimming all
around them they never feed there. I’m
wondering if it’s because they can’t
gather food unless they dive for it.
* * * *
“Harbel”: I have never climbed an Alp
in my life, but I can readily understand
the viewpoint of Mallory—the heroic
alpinist who lost his life on Mount
Everest (Red Page l/7/’53) —when he
declared that lifelines were useless on
rocky faces, but he believed in “roping
up” because of the psychological value.
Fear of heights is, after ail, a psycho-
logical emotion. At the age of six I fell
from a cliff 30ft. high, and merely broke
a bone in my wrist. Thirty-odd years
later I stumbled off a scaffold 4ft. from
the ground and put myself off work for
eight months. Even so, the psychological
argument doesn’t sound convincing high
up. I recall my initiation to a very high
scaffold when such things as guard-
rails were considered unnecessary
and effeminate; the scaffold just
stopped at the last plank with a step down
of about 50ft. or 60ft. I found myself
cowering away from the edge as if
gravity had been lurking there like an
octopus waiting to drag me down to
doom. Old Charlie, my mentor and
veteran mate, tried to snap me out of
it with “You’re just as safe up here,” and
so on. No good. Finally he took
a ball of line out of his bag and tied
four strands between the uprights on the
edge of the scaffold. I know it sounds
utterly ridiculous, but the effect of feel-
ing myself within an enclosure, even one
so tenuous, banished my jitters com-
pletely.
“Swelpme”: Here in the Ma State I
have never heard wattle-gum called any-
thing else but just that (B. 15/7/’53).
On several occasions Westralians have
spoken of manna-gum to me, but they
always left the impression that it was a
substance peculiar to a special type of
tree indigenous to their stamping-
grounds alone. If “Kelms” is correct I
have been an addict of manna-gum for
close on 40 years. The suggestion that
“gummosis” is caused by bacteria raises
a point that may be worth considering:
gumming wattles are invariably riddled
by borers. On the trunks, too, are often
found grey beetles about an inch long
and ugly enough to be shrunken pre-
historic monsters. Possibly they are
borers passing through the last stage in
their life-cycle, but in my barefooted
days we always called them “splinter-
pullers.” No kid in the school doubted
that “If you’ve got a splinter in yer, yer’ve
only goiter put one of them on it
and he’ll pull it out.” I confess
that I never saw the little bloke
demonstrate his skill, for,
although I had the embryonic
scientific mind to want to see it
done, I never had both a splinter
and a beetle at the same time.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Whenever I hear
people enthusing over “the good
old days when builders did
things properly,” I recall the
old bloke with whom I served
my apprenticeship. A lay-
preacher on Sundays, he got a
contract to build a church,
ordered only four reinforcing-
rods, and placed these in the
trench we were to fill with con-
crete. The architect nodded
approval, watched the first few
yards go in, then went away to
attend to another job. When
the first trench was almost full,
the trump called for assistance
and pulled the rods along so
that they protruded another
17ft. to 18ft, The architect re-
turned, saw the reinforcing be-
ing put in as specified, and
departed satisfied. Mixing by
hand as we were, the concrete took three
or four days, and every night the pro-
truding bars showed after-hours archi-
tects that the job was being faithfully
constructed. When the last lap was about
to go in, the four rods were pulled right
through, and, having gone completely
around the job, were placed in the old
T-model Ford and taken back to the
boss’s yard.
* * * ♦
“Brick E.”; With Mario, a newly-
arrived Italian, I was doing repairs at a
small homestead when the lady of the
house pushed a pram on to the veranda.
“He’s got a frightful cold,” she said.
“The sun should do him the world
of good.” Apparently it did; in
no time the youngster was sitting
up and, in between bursts of
coughing, making friendly noises at the
delighted Mario. We were having lunch
when the mother came rushing out in a
panic, the baby, coughing and splutter-
ing, in her arms. “He’s swallowed a
tack,” she cried hysterically. “One of
those upholstery things. I found him
with one in his mouth and there are two
missing out of the pram!” I’m no
authority on what to do till the doctor
comes, but I did know that a cotton-
wool sandwich was called for. Junior
being at the age when he merely licked
the jam off sandwiches, the mother mixed
the wool with his food, piled the sugar
on, and got him to eat it. Then hubby
came home. Junior was rushed in for
an X-ray—and found to be empty of
tacks. Mario, who hadn’t understood
a word of all this, came to work a
week later beaming. “Bambino
naughty,” he said, then pretended
to cough violently. I didn’t catch
on until it dawned on me that
Italian© for “night” sounded exactly
like “naughty.” The rest was much more
difficult, but finally the astounding facts
came out. His baby had suffered a bad
coughing fit, but he’d cured her with my
medicine: cotton-wool in her “mungan.
NEW ENGLAND
(From a sequence.)
Remember now your ancestors
who delivered over their lives to long loneliness,
quiet drudgery,
strange emptiness;
who, after the agony of the wave, the silent,
sticky coast, the sheer hills,
found a quiet, skybound plateau, close to sun
and stars,
straggled with wind-weary trees of uneasy shapes,
but wrapped with soft pale grass and sweet
sharp air
reminiscent of the motherland, so that they
named it with the old name,
proceeded to make it home.
Here they withstood the truculent westerly wind;
fought the granitic ridge which sickly heaved
under the heavy plough.
Here they planted the hawthorn,
to spray in spring its frantic foam over its
green-wave-base;
to drip in autumn blood-gobs, gouged by its
own fierce thorns;
the brier rose, to spill its pink-shell petals
over the bending grass; to dangle lantern-red
dobs
in the late autumn winds.
Here they grew the elm, whose leaf-deep peace
might shelter them against the strong, pale sun.
Here the rabbit made a new home in the hard,
hollow hills
under the blackberries, and the lonely hare
pricked up his ears in the friendly, crisp fawn
grass.
Remember now your ancestors,
those quaint, bewhiskered gentlemen removed
from the dining-room walls last spring,
who planted the hawthorn under the eucalypt,
forged a new landscape, delicate with tradition,
who won a granitic peace under sharp stars
which pierce, with thorn and” wind, the ice-
bright mind
to love alone that which engendered it.
n.s.w.
L. E. CRAIGIE.


“Mat’s Mate”: We’re on a lonely road
in some lost country somewhere in the
hills east of Eugowra (N.S.W.). All we
had was tea, sugar and tobacco. So
when we rounded a spur and saw the
homestead we headed for it. Smoke was
coming from the chimney, but the place
seemed deserted, except for a few chooks-
poking about. There wasn’t a dog in
sight. We went to the back-door, which
was under a skillion, and Mat knocked.
No answer. Mat knocked again, loudly.
The door opened a few inches and the
snout of a d.b. gun looked at us. While
we gaped at it a girl’s voice said “Clear
out! ” There wasn’t a quaver in the voice
or a quiver in the gun-barrels. We
broke evens down .the slope, swags and
all. Out of range we lay down and
panted. Then I said “We ought t’ report
her. She can’t go pointing guns at
people like that.” “You was in no
danger,” Mat scoffed. I looked at him.
“Never worry about a girl with a gun
an’ a black look, mate,” he says. “It’s
the ones with a smile an’ a sweet look
take gettin’ away from.”
* * * *
“Derf Reltuc”: “Swelpme” (B.
29/7/’53) has the wrong idea about
damaging rifle firing-pins. If a trigger
was continuously ;j snapped on a .22 rifle
while the breecmwas empty the firing-
pin would be damaged. The reason is
that in a .22 rifle the pin strikes the
cartridge-cap on the side portion over-
lapping the end of the breech. If the
breech is empty the pin will strike the
case-hardened steel of the breech and
so become flattened. “S.’s” rifleman
friend, practising aiming and pulling the
trigger with no damage to the pin, would
be using a .303, the pin of which strikes
the cartridge in the centre ; when the
breech is empty the pin doesn’t strike
anything.
♦ ♦ * *
“Salmon Gums”: “Harbel’s” warning
that dry sand will run has a special
application on the coastal plain near
Perth, where water can be obtained at
fairly shallow depths. The experienced
well-sinker watches his step every inch
“All right —YOU come up here and be funny!”
of the way, but the job looks so easy
that newcomers are tempted to treat it
with contempt. Then you hear of
desperate attempts to uncover someone
who was at the bottom of a 10ft. or
12ft. well when the sides collapsed. A
striking example of dry-sand treachery
was when some New Australians were
sinking a well and lowering Hume-pipes
as they went. The practice is to attach
the top of each pipe to the bottom of
the one above it, to ensure continuity;
but the pipes were following so easily
that the N.A.s didn’t think this necessary.
They were down about 30ft. when a
pipe half-way down stuck and left a gap
through which the sand ran like water.
The bloke at the bottom didn’t have a
chance.
♦ « ♦ ♦
“Bonito”: Think somebody had “Jack-
stay” (B. 22/7/’53) by the starboard leg
when they gave him the idea that those
mutton-bird chicks eat stones for ballast.
My bet is that the birds are simply
providing for the internal mastication of
their first feed of fish by filling their
crops with grit, which every bird must
have, and which they couldn’t obtain
while in the burrows where they hatched.
I’ll agree on their oil-content, however.
First act of the birders working on the
Bass Strait islands is to tip the birds up
and drain them; then the carcass is
prepared for (mainly) sozzled gents
to eat on Melbourne trams —a perform-
ance well worth watching.
“Colonial Cove”: Mutton-birds were
once plentiful around Sydney Harbor.
Matthew Flinders wrote of them in 1798:
“The people of the Sydney Cove had a
strong example of the perseverance of
these birds. The tents were pitched close
to a piece of ground full of their burrows,
and many of which were necessarily filled
up from walking constantly over them:
yet notwithstanding this interruption and
the thousands of birds destroyed—for they
constituted a great part of their food
during more than six months —the return-
ing flights continued to be as numerous
as before; and there was scarcely a
burrow less, except in the places actually
covered by the tents. These birds are
about the size of a pigeon, and when
skinned and dried in smoke we thought
them passable food.” On the western
side of the continent they appear from
early records to have been non-existent
at similar latitudes, though their presence
on the islands off the coast west of the
Bight was recorded. They disappeared
early, however, being eaten by the pigs
placed-there by Yankee whalers who thus
assured themselves of pork for the home-
ward voyage.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: A Westralian black
cockatoo which laid and hatched an egg
in captivity in Victoria is claimed to be
over 100 years old. Could be, as it was
bought from a Perth man who’d owned
it for 60 years after inheriting it from
his father. It’s one of the white-tailed
variety, the type that inhabits the W.A.
south-west. The black cockatoo isn’t a
fast breeder under the best of conditions,
usually having only one egg in a clutch.
If there are two eggs one is often infertile,
and if both hatch out only one of the
chicks is fed —the other disappears after
a few days. But the fact remains that
every year something—some trick of
the weather, the first green shoots of
winter, or something in their diet —stimu-
lates the birds’ mating and egg-laying
urges. Now, a bird in captivity would
be subject to much the same weather
effects as its free relatives, but there
would necessarily be diet-changes. The
white-tailed cockatoos five to a large
extent on the kernels of eucalypt nuts;
but they also sup largely on the nectar
of the eucalypt-blossoms, something
they’re unlikely to get in captivity. A
Perth man who reared them, for years
fed them on bread and milk and gum-
nuts, with a liberal supply of charcoal,
which acted as a digester—and if they
didn’t get it after a big feed they either
choked or disgorged ; they got no nectar
because he couldn’t supply the blossom.
Would that be why they didn’t mate or
nest in captivity? Nature times the nest-
ing seasons so that the young are hatched
when food is most plentiful, and she pro-
vides some agent to stimulate the pituitary
gland at the right time. In the case of
black cockatoos, that action might depend
on the supply of nectar.
* * * *
“Solitude”: “Gripes, what did y’ do
to your hand? It’s black ’n’ blue.”
Seventyfiver glanced at his mitt. “Banged
it with a lump o’ wood. ’Sail right,” he
replied indifferently. “Right be hanged,
it’s .poisoned” insisted Sandy urgently.
“01’ Ted’s looked jus’ like that before he
lost it.” “Aw, rats! ” “Yair, that’s ’cause
it ain’t started >t’ pain up y’r arm yet.
“ Shempty !"
They go quick when they start.” It must
have been round midnight I woke to hear
Seventyfiver tossing in his bunk, “You
’wake, Sol? D’ y’ reckon they’d,
put a bloke orf drovin’ if he only ’ad
one ’and?” came a voice from the dark-
ness. “You won’t lose your hand.”
“Well, it’s pretty crook, Sol, an’ I c’n
feel it on top o’ me arm like Sandy said.”
“It’s under your arm you feel it first.”
“Yair? ” Silence for a. few minutes, then:
‘ Come t’ think of it, I can feel it under
me arm now,” the voice resumed. “And
Sandy oughter know. Gonna be awk’ard
workin’ all me life with one ’and.” It
was pushing daylight when the old bloke
went to sleep. He slept late, and as a
result was so rushed all the morning he
forgot about his hand. When finally he
remembered to look, the swelling had
gone, and the discoloration was rapidly
disappearing. And Sandy? “Aw, time
someb’dy locked the ruddy goat up,” was
Seventyfiver’s only comment.
* * * *
“Sack”: Touching those “latest
methods” (B. 15/7/’53), an old-timer told
me that, when Prospect Dam (N.S.W.)
was being built, he was paid to do nothing
else but drive a mob of bullocks up and
down the earth banks, day after day
for weeks, to consolidate the filling.
Another veteran claimed to have done
a similar job with a flock of sheep on
some other project, I was convinced that
they were pulling my leg. But I’ve
changed my opinion. The other day, on
the built-up approaches to a bridge under
construction, I saw being drawn behind
a tractor a roller with flat-ended spikes
projecting all over the cylinder. “A
sheepfoot-roller,” the foreman told me.
“It packs earth tighter than any other
machine known —in fact, it has just the
same effect as a flock of sheep going up
and down over the filling.”
* * * *
“Johnay”: “Sack” (B. 1/7/’53) should
visit the Division of Animal Health and
Production at C.5.1.R.0. and see for him-
self that guinea-pigs do drink —and
drink plenty. I breed an average
of 1000 of them yearly. The
daily food-ration is freshly-cut green
lucerne, and in addition a wet mash is
fed twice weekly. Each breeding-pen
contains two males, 25 females and their
progeny up to weaning age, and a water-
container, capacity one gallon. This is
filled each morning and in normal
weather will last 24 hours. In hot weather
it is necessary to refill it in late afternoon
to satisfy the animals. Pigs being used
for experimental work are housed in wire
cages, singly or in pairs. Each cage has
a water-bottle attached to it, externally.
A glass tube passing through the rubber
cork protrudes into the cage, and those
“guineas” make no bones about the
delight with which they fasten on to the
tube when the bottles are being refilled.
Admittedly guinea-pigs and rabbits can
live without water if the green feed is
very succulent; if fed on dry rations
water is essential.
♦ * ■ ♦ ♦
“Gulliver”: Can’t help feeling there
might be a catch somewhere in the use of
trace-elements in arid areas —particularly
in Westralia. Light scrub now holds
the sand fairly well anchored.
With ploughing and other cultivation
the winds on the coastal plain will start
moving that sand along until there is
only the underlying clay left. And that
sahd can move. I’ve turned in at night-
fall on a claypan—to get away from
the ants —and wakened to find a ridge at
my back in the morning from 6in. to
Sin high. Victoria’s Mallee consists of
sandy soil, once covered with light scrub,
easy to clear —you simply rolled it down
and applied the firestick. From 1928
to 1931 I watched the Mallee blow past
the window, and a lot of it blow under
the door, summer after summer; I
watched the winter rains wash away
hundreds of acres of Wheatland; and
that’s what will happen in W.A.
* * ♦ *
“Macquarie”; Apparently a casualty of
the gale, the tank was leaking away
from the seam just above the third rung.
I knew the owner was absent, and though
I was there for a spell you can’t see a
man’s precious water going to waste.
I tried to plug the leak with a slither of
wood; no go. I got out the soldering-
iron ; half an hour later I’d learnt what
I should have known before: you can’t
solder anything while there is water
inside. Then I remembered a waterproof-
ing paste in the shack. It turned out
to be a bigger failure: the welling water
prevented the messy stuff from sticking
to anything except my hands. Then in-
spiration came: when ships’ plates sprang,
the leak was stopped by throwing hand-
fuls of dry cement on the seeping seams
it merely turned to liquid and ran down
the tank. A neighbor came across He
had just the stuff; you mixed the pre-
paration with cement *and ... It was a
washout—literally. Feeling thoroughly
guilty, I went fishing. On the Sunday
the owner turned up. Regretfully I
broke the news. “Oh, that ” he said
airily. “It happened when the tank blew
off its stand last winter. She’s leaked
above the third rung ever since.”
THE DRAGON
A dragon in green armor,
A serpent-looking thing,
Came writhing from a corner
In the early days of spring.
Head up and still advancing,
He strangled all my peas,
Suffocated my young lettuce,
Did just as dragons please.
And he kept on advancing,
Spread strong fresh feelers out,
Climbed up the trees and bushes,
Then seized the waterspout;
And, if I’d not been careful,
(The shed went to its doom)
He’d have been inside my door
And in my drawingroom.
So I got my axe and slew him,
Cut his long back in bits,
Chopped his green scales to pieces,
And now I think we’re quits;
For I robbed him of his pumpkins,
I eat them now he’s dead:
That fast-advancing dragon,
With his high and haughty head.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


Small is big —
_ sometimes /
0
BEiXS
W hi
miNimivKirvi winrt'JJL
nminiicu hhiimk
nuiiifiin tm UK' 11 ”.
D| STILLERS with SGOj^
c/+/iiWf ;
PRODUCT OF
A paradox? Perhapsl
But there are times
when a tape-measure
is not the truest
judge of stature.
Take Scotch Whiskies
for example. Bell’s is one of
the oldest of the
independent firms of
Scotch Whisky distillers—
they have been making
whisky since 1825.
Their output is by no
means the biggest but
the whisky they make
is ‘big’ in the best .
sense. Yes, Beil’s Old
Scotch Whisky is a
really-and-truly ‘big’
whisky.. A big-hearted
drink. Well and wisely
matured. Beautifully
blended. Carrying in
the heart of it the heart
of the Highlands. Those
who take whisky seriously,
take Bell’s with delight.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
dif/uvi.&es'*dorva
DISTILLERS PERTH SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for.
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney,
p. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
. . .its good time.
'/I
a
saasss
CL
128 D-5.53
THE
DEPENDABLE
CIGARETTE
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Our Basic Weakness
The Bulletin has many times
pointed out that production per
man-hour in Australia is far too
low to inspire confidence in our
basic economy, and that, as a
result, Australia must be classed
as industrially backward. It has
also pointed out that industry
is becoming unable to reproduce
and expand itself out of surplus
earnings. In similar vein the
Institute of Public Affairs (Vic-
toria) comments on the under-
lying problems of our economy
even in times of seeming pros-
perity.
There has been, says the
institute, a remarkable statistical
transformation in the balance-of-
payments position. This has
brought with it an easing of the
tight money conditions of the
last six months of 1952.
Employment has, in recent
months, tended to increase.
Despite the cuts in the public-
works programme, public invest-
ment is still remarkably high (in
money terms only 5 p.c. below
last year). Supplies of basic
goods such as coal, steel, power
and cement have expanded
notably; the shortages and
bottlenecks of 12 months ago
have vanished, and in some
commodities surpluses have
appeared. The tempo of retail
trading is fair to good.
All this is certainly grounds
for satisfaction. But even on a
strictly short-run business inter-
pretation of the position, two
points are perhaps not adequately
emphasised.
First, while the price-spiral
seems to have been arrested, for
the time being at any rate, prices
are on the whole abnormally
high. Buyer-resistance, especially
in the middle-class trade, con-
tinues to be stubborn, and the
prospect is that it will continue
so unless prices can be scaled
down to a lower level.
Second, while the statistical
indicators of trade and employ-
ment look promising enough,
there is a disturbing absence of
real buoyancy. Buyers are wary.
Caution rather than adventure
is the keynote. Trade is not by
any means dead, but it is a trifle
flat. The froth is off the glass.
The Stock Exchange still lacks
life and fire despite the overall
improvement in monetary condi-
tions.
The Australian economy, in
spite of improving productivity
in some directions, is still
basically an inefficient economy.
This does not mean that there
are not many efficient industries,
efficient even by the highest
world standards, but that, taken
as a whole, the rate of achieve-
ment in the Australian economy,
the man-year output, is far lower
than it could be, and lower than
in other English - speaking
countries.
The plain truth, says the
1.P.A., is that 100 many Aus-
tralians, by and large, do
not work hard enough. Effec-
tive working hours (after deduct-
ing holidays) are very much
shorter than in other countries,
and there is often not the same
intensity of seriousness of pur-
pose on the job.
That the tempo of work is
generally slower than in many
overseas countries is partly due
to the fact that Australians are
able to enjoy a comparatively
high standard of life for a com-
paratively low standard of effort.
The problem of Australian
productivity is, at root, a matter
of national psychology and
environment.
There is a gaping disparity be-
tween British and Australian
costs of production. Hourly
wage-rates in Australia for male
workers average about Bs.
Average rates for British workers
are 3s. lOd. (sterling) or about
4s. lOd. (Australian currency).
Hourly wages in Australia have
ip creased 149 p.c. since the end
“May I say I find your pipe objectionable, sir ?”
of the war, compared with
increases for Britain of 59 p.c.
and for U.S.A. 71 p.c. The post-
war inflationary gallop has pro-
ceeded at a much faster rate in
Australia than in other English-
speaking countries.
The import-cuts, while they
remain, . are a symbol of
economic weakness and un-
balance. The scarcity of savings
as evidenced by the difficulty of
obtaining adequate moneys for
financing developmental projects
and private industrial expansion
is a third disturbing feature. The
savings famine is partly a con-
sequence of a tax-structure which
saddles enterprise with a burden
ill-suited to a young country
striving to grow to full industrial
maturity.
Experience since the war only
confirms what was well known
before the war; that is, the
unique reliance of the Australian
economy on one product, wool.
This alone should prevent us ■
from accepting without reserva-
tion the optimistic assessments of
the business outlook which have
recently appeared. If the short-
term business prospect is fair to
good, the basic economic posi-
tion continues to give cause for
some unease.
Better Results
Though many industries are
still suffering from the aftermath
of the fall in basic prices and the
drop in consumer demand which
occurred in 1951, others are
showing improved results. G. J.
Coles and Co., in advance of its
annual accounts, has declared a
final div, of 10 p.c., making
15 p.c. for the year, compared
with Ilf p.c. in the preceding
term. In Sydney, the Australia
Hotel Co. has shown increased
profits, and its div. has gone up
from 7 p.c. to 8 p.c. The figures
of 8.H.P., announced two or
three weeks ago, revealed a sub-
stantial increase in earnings,
though the div. remained
unchanged. The Bank of N. S.
Wales has raised its dividend.
Patons and Baldwins, which
declared its first ord. div. (6 p.c.)
from profits equal to 19.6 p.c. on
ord. capital (after paying the
prefs.), announced that trade in
the new financial year was satis-
factory, and that turnover in
hand - knitting yarns had
increased. Generally speaking,
output of all woollen yarns dur-
ing the first half of the present
calendar year was better than in
the same period of 1952, though
the peak level of 1949-50 has not
been regained.
In view of the improved results
shown by the Australia, there
are reasons to expect that the
Hotel Metropole will do better
this year. It dropped its div.
from 12i p.c. to 10 p.c. in 1951-
52, and interim for the past year
was 8 p.c. It has strong associa-
tions with the pastoral industry,
and last year was a good wool
season.
Better results are expected
from F. J. Walker, in the meat
and allied trades. Earlier in the
year Howard Smith showed the
best profit (for 1952) that it has
shown for many years. Coal
cos. have been doing compara-
tively well, but shipping
concerns, especially those operat-
ing intra-State, have had many
difficulties to contend with.
The motor-tyre business has
been slack. Ice-cream and con-
fectionary have found the
seasons against them, but
Street’s Ice-cream (N.S.W.) has
been doing well. The cement-
manufacturing business has been
operating at the peak of
capacity, though in N. S. Wales
increased railway-freights have
been a load for the industry to
carry. Good results should be
shown by efficient cement-
producers not at present dis-
located by the running-in of new
plant. There is still no overpro-
duction of cement on a Com-
monwealth scale.
A good year is expected in the
case of Masonite.
The market is likely to
respond a little to increased
dividends, where they occur.
That has happened in the case
of Minster, Ltd., and Batons and
Baldwins. However, a compara-
tively high yield is still looked
for from second-line stocks,
especially where those stocks are
little known, however solid they
may be.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Ducsbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all Stales.
The AGONISING PAIN
HANDS • WRISTS
ELBOWS • SHOULDERS • HIPS
KNEES • ANKLES • FEET
No matter how much or how long you
have suffered, no matter what you
have tried before, do not give up
hope. COLCHISONE, the sensational
English pale blue pills, will bring
yOU the relief you seek. For ailments
of the Rheumatic group—Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Fibrositis, Lumbago and
Gout—there is no substitute for this
outstanding treatment. Proved first in
England and now here in Australia,
COLCHISONE is bringing a new life
to hundreds of thousands—a life free
from the crippling pain of stiff,
swollen joints and limbs.
w
COLCHISONE
From your chemist PRICE. \Vh with food chart.
If you have any difficulty in obtaining supplies, write to
Rickard Medical Products Pty. Ltd., 21 Oxford Street, Sydney,
<=>
10
a
on
development
Many years have passed
since the days when fuelling
equipment was no more than -
a solid-tyred open lorry loaded'-..
with petrol cans. Aircraft have -
been developed to such an extent
operation requiring precision
equipment. High pumping speeds,
micro-filtered fuel and uplifts of
for considerable efforts to be
devoted to fueller development.
This illustration shows an underwing
integral coupling being connected, pre-
paratory to fuelling a Comet. It is but
one example of the results of development
over the years, which now enable the green
and yellow fuellers of BP Aviation Service
efficiently to meet the requirements
of the most modern aircraft.
that fuelling has become an
many tons have made it necessary
AVIATION
m
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.
4/53
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Thanks to Mr. Butler’s indul-
gence, British people may now
spend their holidays abroad
without feeling like sparrows at
a picnic—within sight of a rich
spread, but forced to dart fur-
tively after scraps. The pound
sterling had to be saved, it is
true, but last year’s allowance of
£25 a head was penurious.
It is not known what factors
induced the Chancellor to change
his mind this year and increase
the allowance to a manageable
£4O. For all his gentle manner
he is anything but easily swayed.
Probably he yielded less to the
desire to let the hard-pressed
Briton enjoy his sedate fling on
foreign soil than to the severe
and quite legitimate pressure
from the parties whose living de-
pends upon the tourist trade. The
agencies, which employ large
staffs, were at their wits’ end.
Continental hotelkeepers justi-
fiably wanted to know how they
stood. And British Railways can
hardly have been disinterested.
While not exactly affluent in all
departments, they enjoy a rich
“corner” in the cross - Channel
traffic.
At all events, the pressure that
Mr. Butler had to meet was of
great tenacity and compulsion,
for he, announced his revision in
advance of the Budget. Such a
concession is almost unheard of,
and suggests that Continental
travel is as much the English-
man’s prerogative as his front
garden—or. his football-pools.
So he now may spend £4O in
any one year and can look for-
ward to a probable gradual
increase, crisis and the interna-
tional situation permitting. But
he still has some way to go
before he reaches the Austra-
lian’s £l5O (for non-dollar and
non-sterling territories). Or, for
that matter, before he
approaches the German’s £7O.
Travel
Getting about Europe is much
easier than it was two years ago.
Visas have been lifted in
Germany and Italy. Services
have improved. By using a little
ingenuity and taking pains over
what must be the most compre-
hensive time-table ever issued, the
independent traveller can work
out for himself a Grand Tour at
a cost not greatly exceeding that
of the return-fare between, say,
London and the furthest point
of his itinerary. He may break
his journey, both outwards and
home, at judicious spots and use
his temporary halting-place as a
base for further exploration.
Americans are fond of this
method and must, by virtue of
their occupation of Germany
and Austria, be counted the
world’s most cosmopolitan race.
It is true that the dollar is a help
(any European who has spent a
few days in the high season in
Paris, Venice or Naples will
readily and forcefully testify to
this), but there are many
Americans not permanently
attached to the occupational
authorities who work their
passage by taking casual jobs.
One also runs across Aus-
tralians in most unlikely places.
There is nothing to suggest that
most of them enjoy the cash, as
well as the privilege, of their
£l5O. Usually they are un-
attached girls who have scraped
together their fare to England,
and then worked for the extra
£4O-£5O which would provide
them with a round tour before
returning home. And there must
be an interesting story behind the'
old taxi that we saw parked in
Residenz Platz, Salzburg. An
abridged log, picked out in white
paint on the back of the hood,
gave its place of origin as Mel-
bourne and its ports of call many
of the great cities of Europe.
That the owners appeared to
have left a change of clothing to
dry in their vehicle while they
took a quick look at the sights
is only an indication of their
inexpensive mod© of travel.
Panacea
Austria, in spite of its quarter-
ing by the French-American-
British-Russian occupation (still
impatiently and rather hopelessly
standing by for a Soviet change
of heart), bravely manages to
keep head above water by cater-
ing for tourists for about eight
months in the year. The official
attitude is one of strictly
impartial internationalism, sedu-
lously borrowed from that more
expensive neighbor, Switzerland.
American aid, besides pro-
moting industry on the sunnier
side of the Iron Curtain that
shrouds Vienna, has also
extended to the construction of
ski-lifts and other attractions for
tourists. Prosperity has, indeed,
triumphed over adversity. So,
too, in the more crowded resorts
have high prices rather put to
shade the famous Austrian
Gerniitlichkeit, or easy gener-
osity. If beds are scarce you
must expect to pay up with the
same smiling grace as that
extended to you (with a stiff bill)
by the landlord who has done
you a favor.
The Gastein Valley is a case
in point. This one-time inacces-
sible pocket has now, due to
official enterprise, become an
important thoroughfare for
motorists on transit from Italy
or Carinthia to Salzburg. The
alternative routes are an old
Roman pass with a poor surface
and a gradient of one-in-three or
the Gross Glockner road, which,
though dramatic and unforget-
table to the passenger, is some-
what less inspiring to the driver
of a 10-h.p. car, to whom a good
surface is no compensation for
gruelling climbs, dense cloud
and heavy falls of snow. Realis-
ing that the average motorist was
denied access to a large tract of
country the authorities had the
initiative to open a car-ferry
through the railway - tunnel
beneath the Alps.
This brings the motorist to
one of the two Gastein spas. He
will find that both are over-
crowded with sedate, elderly
people “taking the cure.” When
he has recovered from the
immediate shock of the cost of
bed-and-board, he will derive
much interest from the nature
of the cure. For more than a
century, thousands of people,
mainly Germans, have flocked
into this remote valley every
summer. And now they are
joined by Swiss, Scandinavians
and Americans.
A long catalogue of ills, rang-
ing from blood-pressure to
nervous debility, is offered
alleviation and, perhaps, recovery
by an amazingly simple remedy
—a hot bath every day. The
water has high therapeutic value,
being pumped from beneath the
mountains and charged with
radio-activity. For full benefit,
a course of at least 21 days is
necessary. -
There never was, even in a
boarding-house for spinsters,
such a rush for baths. The late
arrival may find himself down
for 4.30 am.; another for
immediately after supper—and
all are strictly limited to a 10-
minutes soak.
Cure-guests must pass the
doctor (and pay his fee) before
they can take the course. But
ordinary guests need only ask
for a bath. The water is from
the same source.
Germans
Two years ago few Germans
were able to leave their country.
Now they are packing the hotels.
Broadly, they form two classes:
the comparatively well-to-do
who tour Italy and Austria in
their own cars; and 40-strong
coachloads, mainly comprised
of gay, boisterous family-parties.
All are courteous. Most are
friendly. Many are
almost overanxious—to forget
the past. It is quite common for
informal parties to gather on
the veranda after supper, for
groups of people from Switzer-
land, Italy, Belgium, Germany,
America and Britain to sip wine
together and to toast peace and
to pledge friendship.
The swastika and other relics
of Hitlerism have been methodi-
cally and thankfully erased or
defaced. Schoolchildren have
British pen-pals. Family friend-
ships are increasing. The univer-
sities are entertaining one
another. There is even a cam-
paign to readmit Germans to
Rhodes Scholarships.
And yet . . . The old-hand,
doubly reminiscent, cannot quite
submerge his memories. All this
has happened before. Whispers
are heard from time to time of
a resurgence of that too-familiar
arrogance. These would-be
leaders are in a minority, readily
stifled and intensely disliked by
their fellows. But have the good
Germans, whose recovery and
industry should not pass un-
acknowledged, yet learned to
control their own destiny?


Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS;
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon Raws,
C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young;
W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Symc.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman);
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F R.A.C.P.; J- Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead,
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B.
Heifer; W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager; C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Experienced Management
of Agricultural and
Pastoral Properties
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee Company,
has a wide association with the administration of rural properties. It .provides efficient manage-
ment, safeguards the interests of dependents, and provides ample security for the performance
of Trusts at a fixed and moderate cost.
W rife or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd,
&
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434.
TR11.35
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
Dividends. Written
June, Profit. Ordinaries.* Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1944.. 247,025 6.6p.c.= 133,333 25,000 2,366,764
1945.. 252,423 7.1 „ ~ 141,667 25,000 2,367,826
1946.. 262,185 7.5 „ „ 150,000 25,000 2,370,317
1941.. 283,173 8 ~,,160,000 35,000 2,373,796
1948.. 300,798 9 „ ~180,000 35,000 2,374,900
1949.. 320,686 10 „,, 200,000 35,000 2,375,842
1950.. 334,796 10 „ ~200,000 35,000 2,890,944
1951.. 336,012 10 ~,.200,000 35,000 2,407.262
1962.. 340.563 10 ~ ~200,000 45,000 2,418,131
1953.. 421,345 10 „ ~200,0,00 125,000 2,429.782
In addition, there has been a regular preference
dividend of 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
The 12 months covered by the
C.B.A.’s latest accounts opened and
closed with banking trends moving in
opposite directions. During the year
deposits, liquid assets and the amount
frozen on special-account with the central
bank (under the new method of calculat-
ing this item) all expanded, while advances
contracted. A year ago it was mostly
the other way about. The two major
influences then at work were the balance-
of-payments crisis and internal expan-
sion of bank-credit, following progres-
sive releases of the large sum held on
special-account by the central bank in
order to damp down inflationary
pressures. The first was restrictive and
second expansionary.
As 1952 advanced the balance-of-
payments position changed from a large
deficit to a substantial surplus, thanks
primarily to import-restrictions, a favor-
able season and high prices for wool—
biggest item in the export list. At the
same time traders reduced their intake
of goods from local and overseas
sources, worked down swollen inven-
tories and lowered their overdrafts, thus
strengthening the liquidity of the whole
financial structure and adding to the
stability of trade and industry generally.
S 6 the whole economy came successfully
out of an ugly position, partly as a result
of import-restrictions, etc., and partly
by a run of luck, neither of which can
be relied upon as a permanent prop.
Bank-earnings were helped by a lift in
the overdraft-rate from 4\ p.c. to 5 p.c.
in August, 1952, an increase in the
charge for keeping accounts, by better
earnings in the export market, by pick-
ings from country and inter-State clear-
ances, and by returns from a bigger wad
of investments. Earnings on account of
imports were lower, and the continued
rise in wages, and other costs, albeit at a
slackening pace, together with slightly
higher rates paid for fixed deposits—
these account for about 18 p.c, of total
deposits—bit into takings, of course.
It was the lift in interest-rates and re-
turns from a bigger market of invest-
ments that were mainly responsible for
the growth in net earnings.
After allowing an unspecified amount
for contingencies, the improvement in
the co.’s gross earnings (£5,089,327) was
£545,369, of which exes. (£4,048,050)
gobbled £389,581 and taxes (£619,932)
£75,006. The net result was thus £80,782
stronger at £421,345, equal to 6.4 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined), or enough to pay the prefs.
their 4 p.c. (£84,694) and show 16.8 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 12.8, 12.5, 12.5,
11.7-and 10.8 p.c. back to 1948. The div.
was kept at 10 p.c., which is worth only
half that rate on most of the ord. capital,
which was issued at a premium of
100 p.c. This and the pref. capital ex-
plain the relatively high rate of net earn-
ings on ord. capital.
Trade and other trends already men-
tioned show up in growths of £24,700,409
in deposits, etc., £11,844,160 in liquids,
£13,300,000 in the amount of special
account and in a contraction of £730,372
in advances:
Paid capital— - 1951. 1952. 1958.
Preference.. £2,117,350 £2,117,350 £2,117,350
Ordinary .. 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Notes .. . . 5,103 5,103 5,102
Deposits, etc.* 158,296,016 152,582,363 177.282,772
Other banks .. 6,445,107 16,089 28,608
Final divs. .. 142,347 142,347 142,847
Liquid assets.. 41,251,117 46,776,335 58.620,495
Special deposits
• central bank 47,448,000 21,248,000 34,548,000
Advances . . 80,450,837 88,118,807 87.-388.435
Bank premises 2,263,231 3,138,241 3,444,091
* Includes bills, provision for taxation and other
contingencies.
Liquids include Government securities
(£18,090,858, up £13,255,075) and
Treasury bills (£4,000,000, down
£6,500,000). When the books closed, the
ratio of advances to deposits, etc., was
49.3 p.c., and of liquids (plus special
deposits) to liabilities to the public
67.7 p.c. From the banking point of view
it is a very strong position.
Still, to provide further elbow-room
for expansion of the co.’s activities, those
on the register (pref. and ords.) at July 9
were offered 2,105,868 new 10s. ords. at
a premium of 7s. 6d. each. Paid capital
will thus become £5,170,284 in 211,735
£lO 4 p.c. prefs. (cumulative to 3 p.c.)
and 6,105,868 ords. of 10s. each ; and
reserves will benefit by £789,700 of
sharj premiums. The 4 p.c. pref,
div. and 10 p.c. to the ords. will
then call for £389,987, or £31,458 less
profit than was claimed last term. The
share-premiums, however, will make
10 p.c. worth only 5.7 p.c.
Speaking broadly the current term has
opened with both the season and trade
good, and an “incentive” Federal Budget
is anticipated. Progressive relaxation of
import-restrictions will sharpen competi-
tion from abroad. Much will depend
upon how the season develops, and upon
what happens to wool prices. What the
economic consequences of political de-
velopments in the international field will
be is anybody’s speculation at the
moment.
At 20s. 6d. the co.’s 10s. ords. return
4.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Cost of
the new shares through purchase of the
rights at Is. 3d. would be 18s. 10d., giving
a return of 5.3 p.c. when the scrip is
fully paid in February next. The f.-p,
£lO prefs. at £8 10s. yield 4.7 p.c. on
a 4 p.c. distribution. Including the new
issue, net tangible cover (book-value) is
£39 12s. sd. prefs. and 20s. 6d. ords.
Noyes Bros. (Melb.), Ltd.
To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Noyes Bros, k Subsidiaries.
1946 .. 29,722 124p.c= 20,071 9,651 50,887
Added capital reserve, £l4B .. .. 51,035
1947 .. 33,910 13Jp.c.= 22,078 11,832 62,867
Share premiums, £29,626 .. ..1
From tax k contingencies pro- 1 10 , . no
visions, £28,000 f
Profit, sale of property, £909 .. J
1948 .. 72,645 17$p.c.= 28,457 44,188 165,590
Share premiums, £137 .. .. .. 165,727
1949 .. 77,830 20 p.e. = 36,200 41,630 207,357
1950 .. 100,784 20 ~ „ 36,200 64,723 271,941
Reserves capitalised, £28,960 .. 242,981
Profit sale assets, £llO4 .. .. 244,085
1951 .. 125,084 20 p.c.= 63,450 64,634 305,719
1952 .. 144.161 20 „ „ 74,282 69,879 376,598
From subsidiary, £3OB . . .. 876,006
1953 .. 156,821 20 p.c.= 87,587 69,234 445,140
Reserves are shown here after deducting goodwill
( £19,500).
Ever since the public became interested
in 1936, when the present co. took over
the then 49-year-old proprietary of the
same name, this engineering, electrical
and builders’ - hardware - merchandising
and -manufacturing organisation has been
a very good profit-earner and dividend-
payer. The extraordinary growth of
post-war earnings—profits have more
than quadrupled over the last half-dozen
years—is the fruit of a rapidly expanding
economy, inflation, a sheltered market
and enterprising management.
To help finance the growth since 1947
£335,398 has been added to issued capital,
raising the figure to £495,966, of which
£46,426 was still to come in when the
books closed at April 30 last. And the
£495,966 had the support and assistance
of £445,140 of reserves, after deducting
intangibles (£19,500), as against £41,236
in 1945. The div., which averaged 15.2
p.c, for the past 17 years, has been steady
at 20 p.c. for the last five of them.
The parent holds 35 British and four
American agencies covering a wide range
of lifting, mining and electrical equip-
ment as well as a number of non-ferrous
metal products, etc. It also owns three
manufacturing subsidiaries, whose earn-
ings account for a “substantial” part of
group profits. They are Metalex Pty.,
which turns out brass rods, wire and
sections; Ogden Industries Pty., which
makes builders’ hardware, lawnmowers,
etc.; and Australian Die Casting Pty.,
which specialises in zinc-alloy die-cast-
ings. The products of these offshoots
have won markets outside as well as in-
side Australia, where the main field of
activities is the three southern States
and Westralia.
The co, entered last term with heavy
stocks, which proved more of an insur-
ance against shortages than a handicap.
Despite import-restrictions, tightening of
credit, slackening of activity in the build-
ing trade and curtailment of Government
works programmes, expanding turnover
more than took care of the perennial
growth in costs. The improvement in
gross profit (£744,677) was £32,590. In-
cluding £19,892 (down £4781) set aside
for depreciation and £132,000 (down
£500) for taxation, exes. (£587,856) made
off with £19,930 of the increase. The net
result was thus £12,660 stronger at
£156,821, equal to an attractive 38.5 p.c.
on average capital as against 38.8, 39.4,
59.5, 43 and 44.6 p.c. back to 1948. So
nothing had to be strained to repeat the
20 p.c, distribution, of which 5 p.c, is
labelled bonus.
There was some slimming of stock,
debtors’ balances and liabilities, while
fixed assets and cash were strengthened;
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £355,986 £402,363 £449,540
Creditors* .. 367,327 612,483 334,052
Tax provision .. 134,343 190,206 226,076
Final dividend .. 40,236 47,587 55,612
Freeholds .. 71,370 108,374 184,360
Plant, fittings .. 58,094 94,851 105,382
Stocks . . .. 392.461 769,217 573,939
Debtors .. .. 588,833 656,317 544,857
Cash, etc. .. 93,936 630 101,882
* Includes overdraft.
Stocks (in at valuation, not exceeding
cost) were reduced by £195,278, debtors’
balances by £111,460, and £278,431 was
slashed off the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., while cash, etc., was
strengthened by £101,252. The addition
to freeholds (up £75,986) was mainly in
connection with the new Hobart premises.
The subsidiaries spent £10,531 more on
plant than was written off. There was
an improvement of £29,050 in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£604,938).
As for the current term the immediate
outlook is better than it was a year ago,
but competition is keener and margins
finer. Just how long net earnings are
likely to remain at or around last term’s
level is a matter for speculation at the
moment What can be said definitely is
that finances are comfortable, there
is a wide margin between earnings and
distributions and the co. has an able
management. At 625. (61s. a year
ago) the £1 shares return 6.4 p.c. on a
20 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover is
375. lid.
Western Stores & Edgleys, Ltd.
Parent Co.
Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.*
Sj £ £ £
1949.. 83,367 10,500 12*p.c. = 48,750 29,117 225,419
Tax overprovided, £15,000 .. .. 240,419
1950.. 92,480 10,500 13|p.c. = 48,125 33,805 274,224
Assets revalued, £143,200 .. .. 417,424
Reserves capitalised, £143,200 .. 274,224
1951.. 10,500 15 p.c. = 64,440 51,266 325,490
Parent and Subsidiary. - ! -
1952-158,154 10,500 15 p.c. = 75,180 72,474 408,498
1958-160,349 10.500 15 ~ „ 75,180 74,669 483,167
♦ Subject to intangibles, now £39,580.
t After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
This is an amalgamation of two
country - store organisations Western
Stores and Edgleys—which got together
in 1928 in order to centralise and cheapen
buying and reduce overhead. The group
now consists of headquarters at Dubbo.
eight branches in other towns in western
N. S, Wales—two shops, one at Trangie
and the other at Wangarbon, were closed
in 1951—and an associated co. The
latter is the old-established general store
business of P. G. Smith and Co, Pty.,
at Tamworth (N.S.W.), in which a con-
trolling interest was bought for £20,300
(£12,300 cash and the balance in f.-p. £1
ords.) in May, 1950. It appears to be a
satisfactory profit-earner, but hasn’t yet
sent along a div,, money being wanted
to finance further expansion of the busi-
ness.
A careful trading policy, financially
and otherwise, has been followed from
the start. Turnover expanded rapidly
during the post-war boom, thanks largely
to the fatness of producers’ cheques for
wool, wheat and meat. Profits responded,
and those on the register shared in the
gains. The ord. div. climbed from
10 p.c. in 1947 to 15 p.c. four years later,
and has remained steady since. More-
over the 15 p.c. was sweetened with
£143,200 of bonus-scrip, scattered, two
for five, in 1951, thus making the 15 p.c.
worth 21.1 p.c. on ord. capital as it stood
before the gift, which came from an
assets revaluation reserve, created by
writing up the book-value of freeholds
and buildings by £143,200. After the
writing-up these assets stood in the books
at a figure substantially below their
market-value, the chairman said.
The slip in last term’s turnover (amount
unstated) was “more than accounted for
by discontinuing importation of heavy-
hardware line,” stocks of which were
large at the close of accounts in 1952.
Also, “fairly heavy depreciation was
written off stock during the year
and at stocktaking” to bring it
into line with current market prices.
Nevertheless, the board was able
to show £2195 more combined profit
at £160,349. That was after allowing
£11,622 (down £8797) for depreciation
qnd something for taxation. The parent’s
own profit was £155,819 (down £898),
after setting aside £9327 (down £8050)
for depreciation and £133,500 (down
£34,000) for taxation. The suggestions
there are that (1) the previous year’s
allowance for taxation was liberal, and
(2) the net earnings of the subsidiary
were satisfactory. The £160,349 of profit
was enough to pay the pref. div. and
show 29.9 p.c. on ord. capital as against
29.4 p.c. for the previous term.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
Parent and Subsidiary.*
1952. 1953.
Paid capital— £ £
Pref. .. .. 175,000 175,000
Ord. .. .. 501,200 501,200
Outside interests .. 40,897 43,926
Staff funds . . .. 2,825
Overdraft .. .. 126,996 5,397
Creditors .. .. 127,627 125,231
Tax provision .. 328,929 305,463
Final diva 42,840 42,840
Freeholds, leaseholds . 517,191 524,316
Plant, fittings, etc. .. 60,657 111,149
Shares .. .. 15,483 14,286
Stock 743,685 601.355
Debtors .. .. 802,210 316,199
Cash, Gov. bonds .. 73,081 77,664
Goodwill, etc. . . 39,580 39380
* After eliminating reciprocal inter-co.
balance. \
Stocks were reduced by £142,330 and
£121,599 was slashed off the overdraft.
Debtors’ balance increased by £13,989,
and there was an improvement of £23,603
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£516,287, excluding shareholdings),
despite a net addition of £50,492 to plant,
etc. Also, there are inner reserves in
the stocks and debtors items “ample to
cover any contingency in the future,’
the chairman says.
Since the close of accounts Regans’
general store and car-service businesses at
Tamworth have been taken over for
£50,000 in scrip. Government statistics
suggest that retail turnovers are holding
well.
After recent sales of the £1 ords. at
50s. (48s. in April last) buyers offered


OPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland's' premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3i ins.,
68 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan [g;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturint Stationers and Printers
304.306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
JAe ALL-BRITISH
(ona^aii
§bii)art
From
27/6
to
75/-,
r GIVES
CHARACTER
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
WITH THE
MARVELLOUS NIB
CONWAY STEWART & CQ.LTD.,LONDON
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ing's. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc..
j DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street. Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
* * * *
. Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
HE HAS A
UPTURE
ŵ
WEARS A
NEO-
babbere
A’o Pads —
No Springs
The
NEO-BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BAKKEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3W), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
PROGRESS
AND
ẁ
PLANNING
have placed the
Metropolitan Life in
the forefront of Austra-
lian financial organisations.
Plan your financial pro-
tection through a
Metropolitan
policy.
EVERY YEAR
A BONUS YEAR
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
(Inc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BWBO6I.
TO-DAY'S PROTECTION—TO-MORROW'S SECURITY
FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
Roads have always appealed to me because they
are the gateway of freedom. “Every road leads some-
where”—and where is. the free man who' doesn’t like
to see what is waiting round the corner?
I’ve found it one of the high pleasures of life to
drive along a highway or stroll along a bush track.
There is so much to see, and to meet, and to greet on
the road.
But my reflections just now are on roads as the
arteries of Australia in commerce and defence, in the
plan of modern living. We’re going to need more
roads, and better roads, as the economy of this
country expands.
Every high civilisation that ever developed in this
world has depended heavily on its road communi-
cations. The Romans, in the excellence of their road-
making which is bo'rne out by samples enduring in
Britain to this day, remind us of that.
Here in Australia we have slightly more than
half a million miles of road of some description,
something like 140,000 miles having been surfaced
with bitumen or concrete.
Now, it seems to me that in a land of this size,
the actual mileage recorded in long figures is only
relatively important.
It is more to the point that the network should
be thickening and hardening in a well-devised plan
that will give a top priority to production. And
that can only be done in a national way.
It involves the closest co-ordination between
the States, which are the road-constructing autho-
rities, and the Commonwealth, which holds the keys
to finance.
t
It necessitates a survey, possibly a series of sur-
veys, of the great producing industries wherever they
or their potential may be. x
I’m not under-estimating the difficulties. At great
cost we will have to extend and improve the existing
mileage, while coping with deterioration in the sur-
faces* already laid down.
But we can do it if we face it in a big, national
frame of mind. We should give the task over to our
best administrative and engineering brains, backed
with the marshalling of all the plant and equipment
they will need for the job.
The path leads onward —but first let us make
our way.
~~/V.
51s. with sellers standing off at
555. At the middle figure of 535.
the return would be 5.6 p.c. on a
15 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is 395. Bd. The prefs.
seldom appear on the market.
Maryborough Knitting Mills
(Vic.)
Dividends. Re-
Mar., Profit. All Shares. serves.
£ £ £
1045.. 9,295 18.9 p.c. = 7,710 69,182
1046.. 9,290 13.9 „ „ 7,710 70,762
1947.. 14,386 16.6 „ ~ 9.253 75,895
To staff fund, £l2OO .. 74,695
1948.. 17,441 22.2 p.c. = 13,236 78,900
1949.. 22,329 22.2 „ ~16,383 84,846
Staff fund, £6OOO .. . . 90,846
Assets reval. reserve, £162,911 253,757
1950.. 34,927 22.2 p.c. = 18,914 269,770
1951.. 66,709 22.2 „ ~24,826 311,654
Reserves capitalised, £18,618 293,086
1952.. 31,673 10 p.c. = 18,619 306,090
From tax reserve, £3565. . 309,655
1953.. 29,526 10 p.c. = 18,618 320,563
It wasn’t always like that. Estab-
lished in the early 1920’s as a
commendable experiment in
industrial decentralisation, the
co. ran into trouble in the early
1930’5, when £52,000 (11s. per
share, pref. and ord.) was lopped
off capital. After that share-
holders got regular and satisfac-
tory returns on their reduced
holdings. A large proportion of
profits was ploughed back into
the business, and a lot of atten-
tion was given to plant, the chief
earning asset. For the 14 yeays to
1951 divs. averaged 16.2 p.c., the
rate being steady at 22.2 p.c. for
the last four of them.
In 1950 freehold and plant
were independently revalued
and written up in the books by
£40,901 and £122,010 respec-
tively, and £162,911 was credited
to an assets-revaluation reserve.
In the following year share-
holders put up £55,855 of fresh
ord. capital, and received £18,619
of bonus scrip. The two issues
lifted paid capital to £186,186
in ss. shares, of which 105,050
carry a cumulative 8 p.c., and
participate with the ords. in any
distribution beyond that point.
The div. dropped from 22.2 p.c.
to 10 p.c., the lower rate being
equal to 11.1 p.c. on capital as it
stood before the issue of gift-
scrip.
The co. produces about one-
tenth of Australia’s total output
of knitted underwear from its
well-equipped mill at Mary-
borough (Vic.) and three
auxiliary plants at Dunolly,
Talbot and Avoca. A small
associated concern, Interknit
Hosiery Co., Ltd., also contri-
butes to the pool. An abnormal
and unsatisfied post-war demand
sent profits up with a rush. The
peak was reached in 1951, since
when the demand curve has flat-
tened out, competition has
sharpened, and the continued rise
in raw material and operating
costs narrowed/ margins, hence
the recession in net earnings.
Last term sales fell sharply
during the first but recovered
during the second half. The slip
in turnover for the full year was
approximately 4i p,c. But
upward fluctuations in prices for
raw materials, and the rise in
wage and other costs, left the net
result £2147 short of the previous
year’s at £29,526, That was after
allowing £15,000 (unchanged) for
depreciation and £33,000 (down
£4000) for taxation. The £29,526
was equal to 15.8 p.c. on capital
(pref. and ord. combined) as
against 17 p.c. for the previous
term. The div. was maintained at
10 p.c. ;
The financial position
improved;
1951. 1952. 1953.
* £ £ £
Paid capital .. 111,712 186,186 186,186
Depreciation res. 15,000 80,000 45,000
Overdraft ~ 93,753 58,223
Creditors .« 73,523 37,147
Tax reserve . . 57,000 37,000 33,000
Final dividend 24,825 18,619 18,618
Freehold .. 68,865 69,414 69,414
Plant, etc. . . 149,426 155,943 166,985
Stocks . . 329,794 339,510 248.465
Book debts . . 120,369 129,997 114,928
Cash, etc. . . 19,013 22,015 40,721
Stocks (in at cost or under) were
reduced by £91,045 and book-
debts by £15,069, thus enabling
the overdraft (£58,223 at the
previous balance) to be wiped
out and trade debt to be
lightened by £43,614. And
further improvements were made
to plant, etc. (up £11,042), and
the cash position (up £18,706)
strengthened. The growth in the
more-or-less liquid surplus
(£315,349) was £18,430.
Turnover has further improved
since the close of accounts, and
prospects of a better showing at
next balance are encouraging.
The declared policy of the
management is to depend upon
the efficiency of the organisation
and to trade within the co.’s own
resources. At J3s. 6d. the f.-p.
ss. ords. return 5.9 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is 15s. a share. The prefs.
seldom appear on the market.
V.'
Operations of Wellington
Allu vials, Ltd. (paid capital
£250,000 in 2s. shares), whose big
electrically-driven bucket-dredge
is digging auriferous flats on the
Macquarie River (N.S.W.),
resulted in a loss of £15,263 for
the year to April 30 last, com-
pared with a loss of £46,073 for
the previous term. Less working
time was lost (thanks partly to
better power-supply) and more
slightly higher-grade ground was
handled at lower unit cost:
12
M’ths Handled, Working
April c.y. Value Cost, Loss,
30, ’OOO. c.y. c.y. c.y.
1952.. 2218 11.86 d. 15.55 d. 3.69 d.
1953.. 3633 12.54 d. 12.67 d. 0.13 d.
Yardage treated last term
included 1,611,000 c.y. of barren
overburden, leaving 2,022,000
c.y, (up 794,000 c.y.) of gold-
bearing wash, which yielded
11,5510 z. (up 46560 z.) fine gold.
The drop in both working costs
and loss per c.y, was due mainly
to the bigger turnover. Loss on
working account was £1445 ; de-
preciation (£13,388) and office
exes, (£460) lifted total loss to
£15,263. Since the books were
ruled off the dredge has come
out of closed-paddock conditions
into the Macquarie River, and at
mid-July was handling 3.4 grain
ground (average last term was
1.53 grains). Over the last few
weeks the market for the scrip
has shot up from Is. lOd. to
3s. 6d. Last div. jvas 2d. a share
in July, 1950. B.H.P. is sub-
stantially interested in the co.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie,
third-largest producer on the
Golden Mile (W.A.), treated a
bit more slightly-higher-grade
ore for less profit for the year
to March 31 last, but lifted the
div. from 5 p.c. to 12} p.c.:
Year, Treated Qold, Profit. Div.
Mar. 31. Tons. Fine Oz. £ £
(5%)
1952 .. 170,111 46,792 180,616 38,422
(12*%)
1953* .. 172,881 49,028 164,,319 96,055
* Preliminary statement.
Average grade of mill-feed last
term was 5.67dwt, as against
s.sdwt. for the previous year.
Capital expenditure was
£108,414, met from the co.’s own
resources. Major outlay was
£85,000, paid for the leases,
plant and stores of Paringa, a
next-door neighbor. In August,
1950, Paringa’s ore reserves,
mainly in high-grade pillars,
were put at 91,800 tons,
averaging s.oBdwt. G.M. of K.’s
own ore reserves were figured at
486,000 tons, averaging 6.3dwt.,
at March 31, 1952. Paid capital
is £768,437 in f.-p. 10s. stock
units, of which Western Mining
Corp. holds about 30 p.c. The
scrip, which had dropped to
12s. 6d. in 1952, recently sold at
17s.
* * # *
Following a recent examina-
tion of the Mt. Magnet field, to
which diamond-drill disclosures
at depth in the Hill 50 mine have
attracted attention, Westralian
Government geologist H. A.
Ellis says there is justification
for intensive diamond-drilling
exploration of previously-known
gold-bearing deposits there,
which show sufficient promise
or past history to warrant ex-
ploration at depth in anticipation
of striking gold ’ minerali-
sation similar to that found in
the Hill 50 mine. He also said
that this does not mean that
every known surface-occurrence
on the field would continue at
depth, or that known low-grade
deposits would become high-
grade if and as they went down.
The drilling of banded-iron-
stone formation which did not
show gold or oxide-sulphide
minerals at the surface would
have little chance of being
successful. A large area of
ground in the neighborhood of
Hill 50 mine has been pegged
by Hill 50 Extended and by
Consolidated Gold Areas, which
has let an option to Yenberrie
Gold.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
A letter from Lady Brooks, wife of
Victoria’s Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks,
written from the Stratheden on their way
to England and holidays, spoke of the
wonderful send-off she and her husband
had had at Port Melbourne, her affection
for Victoria and Victorians, the cold and
rough trip they had. Sir Dallas has
been demonstrating no little skill at deck-
quoits, but Lady Brooks is inclined to
play down her own achievements.
They are both looking forward to
seeing again their daughter Jean and
son-in-law Lieut. Robin Byrne, R.N., and
for the first time their grandson Chris-
topher. Lieut. Byrne is stationed at
Malta.
☆ ☆ ☆
Joan Hammond received a storm of
applause for her splendid singing at her
first Town Hall recital. No less appealing
was the soprano’s platform-presence, and
the beauty of her gown. This was of
deep-royal-purple velvet, slashed up the
front, redingote-fashion, to reveal a
lining that matched a panel of deep-
mauve faille which glittered with sequins.
A deep fichu collar highlighted the purple
velvet bodice. In the audience were Mrs.
Anthony Quayle, in persimmon-red faille
full-length coat; Mrs. Frank Tait, who
wore a dyed-ermine coat and small black
hat; Mrs. C. W. Marriott in black satin
gown and white ermine jacket; her
daughter Lolita (who is Joan’s secretary),
the bodice of whose black velvet frock
was embroidered with silver bullion
thread ; and Mrs. Ronald Marriott, whose
full-length coat was of midnight-blue
velvet.
☆ ☆ ☆
A lovely gown of white-and-silver
brocade was worn by Frances Elizabeth,
only daughter of Mr. George Barber, of
Wingfield, Warmambool, when she was
married to John Kinross Mackinnon, at
Toorak Presbyterian Church. Cut on
classical lines, the gown had a wide skirt
and a bodice with a deep V-neckline.
The finger-tip veil of tulle was held by a
plaited-brocade coronet trimmed with
orange-blossom, and she carried x bouquet
of white camellias. Elizabeth Moss, of
Springhurst, and Mariana Mackinnon,
the bridesmaids, wore white pique frocks
with scalloped boat-shaped necklines and
matching leaf-caps. Their bouquets were
of red camellias. The bridegroom is the
son of Mr. and Mrs. Donald Mackinnon,
of Marida Yallock, Boorcan. John
Tandy was best man and Harry White
groomsman. Reception was at the home
of the bridegroom’s aunt, Mrs. Tristan
Buesst. On August 12 the young couple
sail in the Empire Star for England.
" it it
When Barbara Jefford, leading lady
with the Stratford-on-Avon players, cele-
brated her 23rd birthday the other day,
the company decided the affair should
be a Christmas one, it being mid-winter
and they English. Mrs. P. Donnell, wife
of the manager, made a huge stocking
into which all the presents, many of them
from England, were packed. Julia
Wootten, stage-director, held a luncheon-
party at her flat, and there was a Christ-
mas-tree, complete with more presents.
At night Mr. and Mrs. Frank Tait gave
a dinner-party for Barbara at their
Toorak home.
☆ ☆ ☆
William Kapell, the American pianist,
gave at his third recital a work by his
compatriot, Aaron Copland, in which the
composer seeks to enucleate in sonata
terms modern America. Mrs. Kapell,
who had juSt arrived from the U.S. and
who wore pastel-pink crepe covered with
a brown beaver coat, was with Mrs. W.
Cocks and Bonnie McCallum. The Frank
Taits were there, Mrs. Tait wearing a
black coat with ocelot lapels to match her
muff and a small black hat finished with
veiling. The U.S. Consul-General,
Henry E. Stebbins, and Mrs. Stebbins,
Mrs. Robert Hamilton, Mr. and Mrs.
Bowen Harley, Dorrie O’Neill, Max
Umphelby and Neville Day were also
there.
☆ ☆ ☆
At Mrs. Norman Spry’s Toorak home
Mrs. Saul Aarons presided at a meeting
at which plans were laid for a hat-
parade to boost Red Cross funds. Sept.
16 was the date chosen, the venue, Giro’s.
There will be two afternoon
and night. Tickets, at 12s. 6d. each, may
be obtained from the ticket-secretaries:
Mrs. Robert Wallace Mitchell (Win.
8839), Mrs. Jim Peters (WA3235), Mrs.
E. Halienstein (U 1431), Mrs. R. Krantz
(BJ2015) and Mrs. K. Langridge (Win.
3300). Hats will come from the salon of
Madame Margo Brezny.
☆ ☆ ☆
In town for the Sheep Show, Mr. and
Mrs. E. H. Rahles*Rahbula, of Yera,
Camperdown, gave a buffet-dinner at No.
9 Darling-street to 180 friends. Jennifer
and Andrew assisted their parents. The
hostess wore a copper-toned moire taffeta
frock and Jennifer a short frock of
cinnamon lace mounted on taffeta.
Joy Nichols, star of the B.B.C.'s
popular "Take It From Here," is back
in her native Australia with her husband
(in private life she is Mrs. Wally Peter -
sen) and small daughter Roberta. She
is under contract to the Tivoli manage-
ment and opens, in Sydney in September.
She will appear in the Lord Mayor’s
Command Performance in Melbourne on
September 20. Photo by Houston Rogers,
London.
ẅ
of the day’s racing. The guests included
several American visitors, among them
Mrs. Harold Rabling, Mrs. L. V. Ceilings,
"and Mrs. A. Brecken. Other guests were
Lady Burston, Mrs, C. Taylor (South
Africa), Mrs. H. M. Summers and Mrs.
J. D. Jacobs.
SYDNEY
At this time of the year the Swiss
community in Sydney celebrate annually
with three parties; one, a ball given by
the Swiss Club, and the other two an
afternoon-tea for all Swiss people in
Sydney held at the Trocadero and a
reception to leading Sydney citizens, both
given by the Consul-General for Switzer-
land, Mr, H. Hedinger, and Mrs,
Hedinger. Miss Northcott was present
at the buffet-luncheon, which was held
in the Cedar Room of the Australia, and
she was accompanied by Miss Sheila
Collett and Squadron-leader Russell Nash.
The Acting-Premier, Mr. R. J. Heffron,
and Mrs. Heffron, and the Lord Mayor
and Lady Mayoress, Mr. and Mrs. P. D.
Hills, were also among the 250 people
gathered to toast the little country of
Switzerland and to taste not only special
Swiss national dishes, which include the
unusual cream cheese and onion tarts,
but also the plentiful oysters which
might happily become the national dish
of Australia.
It was nice to see Mrs, Florence Taylor
at the Hedingers’ party. She had just
arrived that morning from Mataranka
(N.T.), where she has been holidaying
with her sisters Mrs. Jane March and
Miss Annis Parsons. Mrs. Taylor says
that Mataranka is a most interesting
place, noted for its hot radioactive
springs, which are claimed to be very
good for arthritis. It’s rather remote, of
course. You fly to Darwin, then go on
to Katherine and motor ’7l miles from
there. The homestead is quite “old-
style,” galvanised-iron roof, no ceilings,
concrete floors, but Wedgwood china on
the tables. It’s hot, dry and very cold
at night, and quite a place to visit if you
want to see Australia first.
Elaine Cook, popular Social Secretary
of the Royal Empire Society Companions’
Group, recently announced her engage-
ment to Ronald Taylor, of Haberfield.
Daughter of Mr. and Mrs. G. E. D. Cook,
of Hunter’s Hill, Elaine is Director of the
Wahroonga Nursery School. Photo by
Hugh Spencer.
ŵ
ments by Marion Darsow, the curious
photograph of camellias by her husband,
Mr- R W. Darsow, the baby-clothes em-
broidered by Mrs. K. E. Williams, the
wrought-iron chair by Clem Whiteley and
the loan exhibitions of work by the
physically-handicapped, which include a
cedar jewel-box made by Mr. J, C.
Seufert, a blind ex-serviceman who
although he has no hands, has made
perhaps the most beautiful object in the
whole exhibition.
* * *
Sensation of the Paris showings
apparently is the “knee look” which
Christian Dior has introduced. Skirts
are as short and narrow as those of the
20 sand just as trying to any but the
most svelte figures. Whether Australians
will take to it or not depends on what
it looks like when it has been filtered
through American fashion-channels, for,
although most of our inspiration comes
from France, we don’t generally take to
them until the Americans have adapted
them. It makes us seem very dependent
and unimaginative ourselves, but there
it is.
☆ ☆ ☆ ~
The Overseas League, whose luncheons
are always enjoyable, last week had Mr.
E. W. Burbridge as its guest-speaker.
One begins to wonder what Sydney’s
clubs and associations would do for a
speaker if Mr. Burbridge were suddenly
to depart these shores, he is so much in
demand and so easy to listen to. His
subject was “humor in verse,” and he
ranged from the time of Chaucer, when
the comic in life was mingled with the
serious, to T. S. Eliot, whom people do
not generally regard as a humorous poet.
Present at the luncheon were Major and
Mrs. C. Chapman, Miss Pilkington, a''’
visitor from England, and Major Joan
Paige.
☆ ☆ ☆
Some beautiful varieties of camellias
were used in the decoration of the Royal
Empire Society’s rooms when the Gar-
den Club held its reception there during
the week. As the club’s president, Mrs.
Arthur Davis, is in hospital, the guests
were received by Professor and Mrs. E.
C. Waterhouse, assisted by Mrs. Mark
Barnett and Mr. Hector Tinkler, whose
garden had provided many of the flowers.
One of the most attractive settings was
by Mrs. K. Simmons called “Snowdrift.”
In white and pale-green, it featured the
white camellia “Janet Waterhouse,”
named after Professor Waterhouse’s wife.
Lady Holmes, who with her husband,
Sir Stephen Holmes, High Commissioner
for U.K., and guest-of-honor, spoke to
the members on English gardens. Among
the guests were the Minister for the
Philippines, Dr. Regala, with Madame
Regala, the Consul-General for Switzer-
land, Mr. H. Hedinger, and the Consul-
General for Denmark, Mr. Henning
Hergel. Mrs. H. E. logman, who has
just returned from a trip to England,
Sweden, Germany and Finland, was also
present. ,
☆ ☆ ☆
Sydney has seen two splendid films of
late that deal with tragic themes, one
made in Sweden, the other in America,
and it is interesting to compare the
approach made in each case. “Miss
Julie,” the Swedish film (still showing
at the Savoy), deals with the love of a
Count’s daughter for her father’s groom
—a theme rather remote from our
ordinary way of life, but the poetic
quality of the film, the beauty of the
pictures it presents and the way in which
Miss Julie is made to appear as a figure
of suffering humanity give it a uni-
versal quality that is quite different from
anything we have seen before. All the
action takes place between sundown and
sunrise on Midsummer’s Night, but the
story is told in a series of subtle flash-
backs which make the past seem to live
in the present, which indeed is the essence
of the tragedy, for it is Miss Julie’s heri-
tage of prejudice and fanaticism, her
lover’s heritage of servitude, that make
their love a doomed one.
The American film, “Come Back Little
Sheba,” also shows the tragedy that can
follow from dwelling too much on the
past, but this picture brings it right down
to earth, into the lounge-room and living-
room. This seems to be the strength of
the American drama when it is well done,
as is seen in the present production of
“Death of a Salesman” at the. Inde-
pendent. “Come Back Little Sheba,” how-
ever, hasn’t the overwhelming force of
the Swedish film, for it deals with a
problem that can be solved, whereas
“Miss Julie” seems to make despair the
everlasting lot of man.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —Iff Divorce.
TO THOMAS FREDERICK JOHN WARD
late of Rose Street Darlington near Syd-
ney in the State of New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that NANOYE MAR-
GARET WARD has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1750 of 1968 against you on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend the suit you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 19th day of October 1953
and obtain a copy of the petition free of
charge from ERIC E. ROSENDAHL.
Solicitor, 39 Martin Place, Sydney.—
(1.5.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALMA ELIZABETH LINEHAN late
of 16 Resthaven Road Bankstown near
Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that JACK SYDNEY
MONTGOMERY LINEHAN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4708 of 1952
against you on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend the
suit you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 19th day of October
1953 and obtain a copy of the petition
free of charge from ERIC E. ROSEN-
DAHL, Solicitor, 39 Martin Place, Sydney.
—(l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar,
rial!
The new Small's Milk
Chocolate has an
extra creaminess, ex-
t
tra smoothness, extra
lusciousness. This dif-
isa
ferent chocolate
!tsS u P er
real palate pleaser
B/aocouaf
Change to Small's the family
chocolate with a real taste
difference.
o
■w
SM-3
Small's make Nut Mifk, Plain Milk and
Ginger Milk Chocolate
Dad always buys us some
Small's Milk Chocolate
for the weekend, or when
we go to the pictures. I
like mine best with crisp
toasted nuts.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Schmidt-Isserstedt
The German conductor,
athletic - looking, strong-faced,
with a shock of hair, and seem-
ing much younger than his 53
years, made an excellent impres-
sion at his first appearance with
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra.
And, by the manner in which
from time to time he beamed at
one instrumental choir or
another, their playing brought
him, and justifiably, much
satisfaction.
He started with Brahms’s
Third Symphony, that mag-
nificent fusion of classicism and
romanticism. Conducting with-
out a score, Schmidt-Isserstedt
immediately made clear his
appreciation that he was the self-
confident master. At the modu-
lation to C Sharp Minor at the
second subject of the opening
movement he set the sombre
mood which he followed relent-
lessly throughout; and from
the string sections in the
cantabile-like third movement
which displaces the orthodox
Scherzo he drew a lovely
lyricism. /
It was in Dvorak’s Second
Symphony, however, that the
German showed his real mark.
Too often the Bohemian’s stature
as a symphonist is judged only
by his more spectacular Fifth,
the “New World” symphony.
But the Second is a work that
can stand shoulder-to-shoulder
with some of the best of Beet-
hoven, as the conductor demon-
strated with a reading of great
vigor and warmth, and in which
the strength of the rhythmic
material in the third and fourth
movements was a revelation. In
this the orchestra did work of
which it may be proud.
Sandwiched between the major
works was Bartok’s Divertimento
for Strings, a piece much more
engaging than most of this com-
poser’s music.
$ * ♦>
Kapell
William Kappel, giving solo
recitals at Melbourne Town Hall,
is that very rare thing—a
thoughtful player. He doesn’t
just bang the keys and hope for
the best, but appears to be sensi-
tive to every nuance in the piece
he is playing.
This was well demonstrated
in his playing of a new work by
fellow- countryman Aaron
Copland. Melbourne audiences
usually receive new works with
grave misgivings—they don’t
know what to think of them
until the critics tell them —but
in this case they responded im-
mediately to the American’s
sonata, which sounded as if its
author was trying to express the
impressions given by a door
opening and shutting on a lovely
countryside and a foundry or
workshop or something of that
sort.
Fierce jangling discords alter-
nated with lyric passages of the
most delicate description, and
they didn’t sound incongruously
contrasted. The sonata ended
with an exquisite fading-away of
the various elements of the
composition into silence.
How this could be done with
a pair of human hands and a
clumsy instrument like the piano
is one of the marvels of the
human spirit.
“The Flying Dutchman”
Nigel Lovell’s production for
National Opera of Wagner’s
first success in music-drama was
reasonably successful, taking
into account the considerable
technical difficulties involved in
the first act. The entry of the
Dutchman’s ship was smoothly
enough managed, but the poop
of the Norwegian ship didn’t
carry sufficiently nautical con-
viction because of skimping.
Also, the cloud-effects could
have been much more menac-
ing, the lightning more vivid—
after all, it is a storm that has
driven the Norwegian skipper to
seek shelter.
James Wilson was the Dutch-
man condemned to sail the seas
for ever unless redemption comes
through the love of a self-sacri-
ficing woman. Of splendidly
commanding presence, he sang
with feeling artd power, but at
times he was off pitch and he
should eliminate the tendency to
“waver.” Gloria Read, as in
“Cavalleria,” again had to sub-
stitute for Gladys Mawson. As
Senta she gave a vocally-sound
performance; she needs to un-
bend and to display more facial
animation to lend greater con-
viction to her words.
John Dudley brought a voice
of ringing virility to the role of
Erik, and Alan Light, was a
sturdy Daland, his enunciation
crystal-clear.
♦ . ■
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Indifferent Shepherd”
In spite of make-up which
made them look like Archibald
Prize rejects, the Sydney Uni-
versity Players * made almost a
professional job of “The Indif-
ferent Shepherd” by Peter
Ustinov at the Wallace Theatre
on Saturday. The rector of Old-
church (Peter O’Brien) is visited
by his brother-in-law (Bruce
Herps), a careerist Army padre,
during the recent war; brother-
in-law and wife (Nancy Crispin-
Smith) deplore the decay of the
living under the spiritual and
ineffectual husband. The play
develops with the disclosure that
the wife has been having an
affair with an Air Force officer
(Dacre King), who has discarded
her; with the arrival of her
beautiful young niece (Jill White)
to stay because the wife of the
jazz drummer she was living with
in London has returned; and
with the announcement by the
maid (Judy Barrell) that she is
pregnant, either to “a soldier,”
or —“another soldier.”
Two comic scenes with the
maid illustrate the difference be-
tween the two clergymen: the
rector talks of the naturalness of
nature so vaguely that the girl
runs out to drown herself; the
padre becomes the fast-talking
salesman for the ever-expanding
“Church of England Unmarried
Mothers’ Association,” and
calms the girl—Miss Barrell, Mr.
Herps and Mr. O’Brien got
everything that was to be got
out of these scenes. Miss
Crispin-Smith, who gave a
superb characterisation of the
ageing, embittered wife, was
frightening in the scene where
she throws all her frustrations
into a castigation of the
husband; one does not
remember anywhere having seen
a more dreadfully-true portrait
of a woman on the edge of
madness.
Mr. King played a fruity
philanderer with vigor and
several touches of observation ;
Miss White, whose business was
to anger and delight with bare
shoulders and improper ideas
enunciated softly, calmly and
clearly, knew her business ; and
Terence Clarke made the best
of a not-very-well-written part as
an Army call-up who would
have preferred a call to the
Ministry. Peter McDonald’s
forceful production held atten-
tion on tiptoe almost to the end ;
and here it was sloppy writing
that spoiled an evening of pure
enjoyment.
* ❖ ❖
The St. George United Artists
last week presented at Bexley
John Dighton’s witty farce, “The
Happiest Days of Your Life,”
with a speed and gusto that was
quite refreshing. Although there
was little subtlety in the acting,
most of the parts being frankly
caricatured, it was generally
clearly presented and well
sustained. John Gardiner, well-
made-up as the gibbering, nerve-
wracked headmaster, and lima
Cave as the resourceful “prin-
cipal,” dominated the fun, for,
though Pamela Hawken’s sports-
mistress brought the most
hilarious laughter, she seemed
to clown a little overmuch. Ken
Steel showed himself as an actor
of promise with a good sense of
timing and ability to point his
lines. He needs, however, more
stage presence and a less shallow
voice. Th® setting was adequate,
but certain garish touches, the
false books in the bookcase for
instance, could easily have
been avoided. Still, on the
whole the performance was a
promising one in which the pro-
ducer, Len Bosher, had obvi-
ously made the most of his com-
pany’s general vitality and
freshness.
* ❖
Mosman Musical Society,
which was established back in
1903, came up for its 141st
performance with Romberg’s
“Maytime” at Mosman Town
Hall. The society seems to have
slipped a bit with this one, and,
although it was pleasantly set
and dressed, it was, musically,
undistinguished, while histrioni-
cally, even by musicomedy
standards, the players were more
noticeable for what they missed
than what they achieved.
Rhondda Baker and Robert
Moylan were the most relaxed
members of the cast.
Artbursts
Sidney Nolan
Sidney Nolan has returned
from the Centre —or thereabouts
—with impresfions of carcasses,
drought, deserted homesteads,
skeletons and other symbols of
death and decay. The exhibi-
tion, at David Jones’s Gallery,
Sydney, has, particularly with the
carcasses rendered into abstract
forms, quite an initial impact on
the viewer, but an impact that is
lessened considerably with
second inspection and, probably,
one that would be dispelled alto-
gether with a little familiarity.
That is the trouble with most
shock tactics in art. One could
live with, for instance, a faith-
fully-painted Gruner or Solomon
and go on for a lifetime finding
in its shadows and distances
fresh enchantments and
mysteries ; but what is left after
the initial impact of beholding a
slickly-painted distorted carcass
apparently suspended in a grey
vacuum? Nothing but steadily
diminishing surprise which
inevitably dies of exhaustion.
There is no great painting here ;
more a bright idea, cleverly
executed. And when it is done
over and over again with no fresh
vision, but only a variation in
form, it becomes simply a mildly
impressive form of artistic
acrobatics.
Occasionally in the smaller,
uncatalogued paintings the eye
lingers a little longer. In such
as “Dry River,” “Railway Sid-
ing” and “Desert,” small though
they are, there seems to be a
wider vision, more thought and,
indeed, more painting. Certainly
one might live in peace and
pleasure with them for much
longer than with any of the
shinily - painted, distorted
carcasses.
Talkies
“Titanic” (Sydney Mayfair):
Drama of a marriage break be-
tween a middle-aged luxury-
lover (Clifton Webb) and his
long-disillusioned wife (Barbara
Stanwyck). The latter is going
back to her native America,
with their children, on the
Titanic when they are joined
at the last minute by her un-
welcome lord. The family
drama is about to boil over when
the iceberg heaves up dead-
ahead. Well-handled, especially
the scenes of the disaster and
the final plunge. Brian Aherne
is the doomed vessel’s skipper.
* * * *
“Sdmbrero” (At Sydney St
James): This attractive film, in
Technicolor that is a model of
restraint, has three well-inte-
grated love stories: one, with
Ricardo Montalban and Pier
Angeli, gay and carefree; the
others, with Vittorio Gassman
and Yvonne de Carlo, and Cyd
Charisse and Rick Jason, in-
volving tragedy. A long-stand-
ing, feud between two Mexican
villages is a supplementary motif.
Blending of humor and pathos
has beeto achieved by the di-
rector, Norman Foster, with
many subtle touches. A turn-
up for the books is Yvonne de
Carlo, previously unimpressive
in cloak-and-dagger stuff; her
portrayal of a socially-ostracised
village girl has sincerity and
conviction.
* * * *
“Encore” (Sydney Embassy):
Comprises three Somerset
Maugham stories, introduced, as
has become the custom with
him, by the author.
The first is *‘The Ant and the
Grasshopper,” an ironic tale of
an indolent ne’er-do-well of
attractive personality (Nigel
Patrick) who soars to an afflu-
ence far beyond that of his
miserly brother (Roland Culver)
by the simple means of marrying
an heiress. The second, “Winter
Cruise,” about a young middle-
aged, talkative spinster who
forces the officers of the ship on
which she is the only passenger
to take counter-measures for
their peace of mind. In this Kay
Walsh does a clever piece of
work. The third tale, “Gigolo
and Gigolette,” which tells of
the nerve crack-up of a girl
whose husband directs her
nightly act of diving 80ft. into
a sft.-deep tank, with the
fashionable Riviera night-club
audience morbidly waiting for
the fatal crash, is full of coiled-
spring tension. Glynis Johns
and Terence Morgan handle the
material well.


ON OUR SELECTION
When the Wolf Was at
the Door
By "STEELE RUDD"
(ARTHUR H. DAVIS)
'X’HERE had been a long
A stretch of dry weather, and
we were cleaning out the water-
hole. Dad was down the hole
shovelling up the dirt; Joe
squatted on the brink catching
flies and letting them go again
without their wings, a favorite
amusement of his; while Dan
and Dave cut a drain to turn the
water that ran off the ridge into
the hole—when it rained. Dad
was feeling dry, and told Joe to
fetch him a drink.
Joe said “See first if this cove
can fly with only one wing.”
Then he went, but returned and
said “There’s no water in the
bucket—Mother used the last
drop to boil the punkins,” and
renewed the fly-catching. Dad
tried to spit, and was going to
say something whpn Mother,
half-way between the house and
the waterhole, cried out that the
grass-paddock was all on fire.
“So it is, Dad,” said Joe, slowly
but surely dragging the head off
a fly with finger and thumb.
Dad scrambled out of the hole
and looked. “Good God!” was
all he said. How he ran! All
of us rushed after him except
Joe—he couldn’t run very well,
because the day before he had
ridden fifteen miles on a poor
horse, bareback. When near the
fire Dad stopped running to
break a green bush. He hit upon
a tough one. Dad was in a
hurry. The bush wasn’t. Dad
swore and tugged with all his
might. Then the bush broke and
Dad fell heavily upon his back
and swore again.
To save the cockatoo-fence
that was round the cultivation
was what was troubling Dad.
Right and left we fought
the fire with boughs. Hot!
It was hellish hot! When-
ever there was a lull in the wind
we worked. Like a windmill
Dad’s bough moved—and how
he rushed for another when that
was used up! Once we had the
fire almost under control, but the
wind rose again, and away went
.the flames higher and faster than
ever.
“It’s no use,” said Dad at last,
placing his hand on his head and
throwing down his bough. We
did the same, then stood and
watched the fence go. After
supper we went out again and
saw it still burning. Joe asked
Dad if he didn’t think it was a
splendid sight. Dad didn’t
answer him ; he didn’t seem con-
versational that night.
We decided to put the fence
up again. Dan had sharpened the
axe with a broken file, and he
and Dad were about to start
when Mother asked them What
was to be done about flour. She
said she had shaken the bag to
get enough to make scones for
that morning’s breakfast, and
unless some was got somewhere
there would be no bread for
dinner.
Dad reflected, while Dan felt
the edge on the axe with his
thumb.
Dad said “Won’t Mrs. Dwyer
let you have a dishful until we
get some?”
“No,” Mother answered, “I
can’t ask her until we send back
what we owe them.”
Dad reflected again. “The
Andersons, then?” he said.
Mother shook her head and
asked what good there was in
sending to them when they, only
that morning, had sent to her for
some.
“Well, we must do the best we
can at present,” Dad answered,
“and I’ll go to the store this
evening and see what is to be
done.”
Puttin § the fence U P a S ain > in
the hur ry that Dad was in, was
the very devil! He felled the
saplings—and such saplings—
trees man y °f them were—while
we, all of a muck of sweat,
dragged them into line. Dad
worked like ahorse himself and
ex P ect ed us to do the same,
“Never mind staring about you,”
he’d say, if he caught us looking
at the sun to see if it were
coming dinner-time. “There’s
no time 1:0 l° se we want to get
the fence up and crop in.”
Dan worked nearly as hard as
£> a d un tq he dropped the butt-
en d of a heavy sapling on his
foot, which madeihim hop about
on one leg and say that he was
an d h r ed of the dashed
fence. Then he argued with
Dad, and declared that it would
be far better to put a wire fence
U P at once, and be done with it,
instead of wasting time over a
thing that would only be burnt
down again. “How long,” he
said, “will it take to get the
posts? Not a week,” and he hit
the ground disgustedly with a
piece of stick he had in his hand.
“Confound it!” Dad said.
“Haven’t you got any Sense,
b o y? what earthly use would a
wire fence be without any wire
| n
Then we knocked off and went
to dinner.
]sj 0 one appeared in any humor
to talk at the table. Mother sat
s jj ent iy at t h e end and poured
QUt t h e tea w hii e Dad, at the
head, serve d the* pumpkin and
divided what cold Tne at there
was jyfothej- wouldn’t have any
“He plunged as though the Devil had grabbed him."
meat —one of us would have to
go without if she had taken any.
I don’t know, if it was on
account of Dan’s arguing with
him, or if it was because there
was no bread for dinner, that
Dad was in a bad temper. Any-
way, he swore at Joe for com-
ing to the table with dirty hands.
Joe cried and said that he
couldn’t wash them when Dave,
as soon as he had washed his,
had thrown the water out. Then
Dad scowled at Dave, and Joe
passed his plate along for more
pumpkin.
Dinner was almost over when
Dan, still looking hungry,
grinned and asked Dave if he
wasn’t going to have some bread,
Whereupon Dad jumped up in a
tearing passion. “Damn your
insolence!” he said to Dan.
“Make a jest of it, would you?”
“Who’s jestin’?” Dan
answered and grinned again.
“Go!” said Dad furiously.
pointing to the door. * “Leave
my roof, you thankless dog!”
Dan went that night.
It was only when Dad
promised faithfully .to reduce his
account within two months that
the storekeeper let us have
another bag of flour on credit,
And what a change that bag of
flour wrought! How cheerful
the place became all at once!
And how enthusiastically Dad
spoke of the farm and the
prospects of the coming season!
Four months had gone by.
The fence had been up some
time and ten acres of wheat had
been put in ; but there had been
no rain, and not a grain had
come up, or was likely to.
Nothing had been heard of
Dan since his departure. Dad
spoke about him to Mother,
“The scamp,” he said, “to leave
me just when I wanted help,
After all the years I’ve slaved to
feed him and clothe him, see
what thanks I get! But, mark
my word, he’ll be glad to come
back yet.” But Mother would
never say anything against Dan.
The weather continued dry.
The wheat didn’t come up and
Dad became despondent again.
The storekeeper called every
week and reminded Dad of his
promise. “I would give it to you*
willingly,” Dad would say, “if
I had it, Mr. Rice ; but what can
I do? You can’t knock blood
out of a stone.”
We ran short of tea, and Dad
thought to buy more with the
money Anderson owed him for
some fencing he had done. But
when he asked for it, Anderson
was very sorry he hadn’t got it
just then, but promised to let him
have it as soon as he could sell
his chaff. When Mother heard
Anderson couldn’t pay, she did
cry, and said there wasn’t a bit
of sugar in the house, or enough
cotton to mend the children’s
bits of clothes.
We couldn’t very well go with-
out tea, so Dad showed Mother
how to make a new kind. He
toasted a slice of bread on the
fire till it was like a black coal,
then poured the boiling water
over it and let it draw well. Dad
said it had a capital flavor —he
liked it.
Dave’s only pair of pants were
pretty well worn off him; Joe
hadn’t a decent coat for Sunday ;
Dad himself wore a pair of
boots with soles tied on with
wire; and Mother fell sick.
Dad did all he could—waited on
her, and talked hopefully of the
fortune which would come to us
some day—but once, when talk-
ing to Dave, he broke down,
and said he didn’t, in the name
of Almighty God, know what he
would do. Dave couldn’t say
anything—he moped about, too,
and home somehow didn’t seem
like home at all.
When Mother was sick and
Dad’s time was mostly taken up
nursing her, when there was
hardly anything in the house,
when, in fact, the wolf was at
the very door, Dan came home
with a pocket full of money and
swag full of greasy clothes.
How Dad shook him by the hand
and welcomed him back! And
how Dan talked of tallies, belly-
wool and ringers and implored
Dad, over and over again, to go
shearing, or rolling-up, or brand-
ing—anything rather than work
and starve on the selection.
But Dad stayed on the farm.
The Night We Watched
for Wallabies
XT had been a bleak July day,
1 and as night came on a bitter
westerly howled through the
trees. Cold! Wasn’t it cold!
The pigs in the sty, hungry and
half-fed—we wanted for our-
selves the few pumpkins that had
survived the drought— fought
savagely with each other for
shelter, and squealed ah the time
like well, like pigs. The cows
and calves left the place to seek
shelter away in the mountains,
while the draught-horses, their
hair standing up' like barbed-
wire, leant sadly over the fence
and gazed at the green lucerne.
Joe went about shivering in an
old coat of Dad’s with only one
sleeve to it—a calf had fancied
the other one day that Dad hung
it on a post as a mark to go by
while ploughing.
“My! It’ll be a stinger to-
night,” Dad remarked to Mrs.
Brown, who sat, cold-looking, on
the sofa, as he staggered inside
with an immense log for the fire.
A log! Nearer a whole tree!
But wood was nothing in Dad’s
eyes.
Mrs. Brown had been at our
place five or six days. Old
Brown called occasionally to see
her, so we knew they couldn’t
have quarrelled. Sometimes she
did a little housework, but more
often she didn’t. We talked it
over together, but couldn’t make
it out. Joe asked Mother, but
she had no idea—so she said.
We were frill up, as Dave put it,
of Mrs. Brown, and wished her
out of the place. She had taken
to ordering us about, as though
she had something to do with
us.
After supper we sat round the
fire—as near to it as we could
without burning ourselves—Mrs.
Brown and all, and listened to
the wind whistling outside. Ah,
it was pleasant beside the fire
listening to the wind! When
Dad had warmed himself back
and front he turned to us and
said “Now, boys, we must go
directly and light some fires and
keep those wallabies back.”
That was a shock to us, and
we looked at him to see if he
were really in earnest. He was,
and as serious as a judge.
“Tonight!” Dave answered
surprisedly. “Why tonight any
more than last night or the night
before? Thought you had de-
cided to let them rip?”
“Yes, but we might as well
keep them off a bit longer.”
“But there’s no wheat there
for them to get now. So whafs
the good of watching them?
There’s no .sense in that.’’
Dad was immovable.
“Anyway,” whined Joe, “I’m
not going—not a night like this
—not when I ain’t got boots.”
That vexed Dad. “Hold your
tongue, sir!” he said. “You’ll
do as you’re told.”
But Dave hadn’t finished.
“I’ve been following that harrow
since sunrise this morning,” he
said, “and now you want me to
go chasing wallabies about in the
dark, a night like this, and for
nothing else but to keep them
from eating the ground. It’s
always the way here, the more
you do the more you’re wanted
to do,” and he commenced to
cry. Mrs. Brown had something
to say. She agreed with Dad
and thought we ought to go, as
the wheat might spring up again.
“Pshah!” Dave blurted out
between Ifis sobs, while we
thought of telling her to shut her
mouth.
Slowly and reluctantly we left
that roaring fireside to accom-
pany Dad that bitter night. It
was a night! . Dark as pitch,
silent, forlorn and forbidding,
and colder than the busiest
morgue. And just to keep
wallabies from eating nothing.
They had eaten all the wheat—
every blade of it—and the grass
as well. What they would start
on next—ourselves or the cart-
harness—wasn’t quite clear.
We stumbled along in the
dark, one behind the other, with


K&-
. \
!*>■
V
Vji
m
Wmm
mm
2®,
rSM*
s
r
iTiBRIfOR I 0 M
1
X'i*
V
ME
s*r
llttTK
*Wli
nSS
r»n»
•«r*i
iftT*I*< 1 *<
■w
Turn lo IheToam
you can Trust!
- What quality does to-day’s motorist want most
from his service station? It’s trustworthiness! He
wants to know, with certainty, that his car has been
serviced correctly and thoroughly - by depend*,
able and qualified men.
That’s why so many are turning to the Atlantic
Solo Stations with their fully-trained staffs and
i their new code of service the team you can trust.
And remember their work is backed-up by
quality petroleum products made by the world’s
oldest and largest refiners and still unsurpassed!
fir
<3
ATLANTIC
for
44appij Hleteihuf 7
f ;|
HI
ATLANTIC CM ON OIL COMPANY LIMITED
■ i \
our hands stuffed into our
trousers. Dad was in the lead,
and poor Joe, bare-shinned and
bootless, in the rear. Now and
again he tramped on a Bathurst-
burr, and in sitting down to
extract the prickle would receive
a cluster of them elsewhere.
When he escaped the burr it was
only to knock his shin against a
log or leave a toenail or two
clinging to a stone. Joe howled,
but the wind howled louder, and
blew and blew.
Dave, in pausing to wait for
Joe, would mutter “To hell with
everything! Whatever he wants,
bringing us out a night like this,
I’m damned if I know!”
Dad couldn’t see very well in
the dark, and on this night
couldn’t see at all, so he walked
up against one of the old
draught-horses that had fallen
asleep gazing at the lucerne.
And what a fright they both got!
The old horse took it worse than
Dad—who only tumbled down
—for he plunged as though the
Devil had grabbed him, and fell
over the fence, twisting every leg
he had in the wires. How the
brute struggled ! We stood and
listened to him. After kicking
panels of the fence down and
smashing every wire in it, he got
loose and made off, taking most
of it with him.
“That’s one wallaby on the
wheat, anyway,” Dave muttered,
and we giggled. We understood
Dave, but Dad didn’t open his
mouth.
We lost no time lighting the
fires. Then we walked through
the “wheat” and wallabies. May
Satan reprove me if I exaggerate
their number by one solitary pair
of ears, but from the row and
scatter they made there were a
million.
Dad told Joe, at last, he could
go to sleep if he liked, at the
fire. Joe went to sleep—how, 1
don’t know. Then Dad sat
beside him, and for long intervals
would stare silently into the
darkness. Sometimes a string of
the vermin would hop past close
to the fire, and another time a
curlew would come near and
screech its ghostly wail, but he
never noticed them. Yet he
seemed to be listening.
We mooched round from fire
to fire, hour after hour, and
when we wearied of heaving fire-
sticks at the enemy we sat oh our
heels and cursed the wind and
the winter and the nightbirds* in
turn. It was a lonely, wretched
occupation.
Now and again Dad would
leave his fire to ask us if we
could hear a noise. We couldn’t,
except that of wallabies and
mopokes. Then he would go
back and listen again. He was
restless and, somehow, his heart
wasn’t in the wallabies at all.
Dave couldn’t make him out.
The night wore on. By and
by there was a sharp rattle of
wires, then a rustling noise, and
Sal appeared in the glare of the
fire. “Dad! ” she said. That was
all. Without a word, Dad
bounced up and went back to
the house with her.
“Something’s up!” Dave said,
and, half-anxious, half-afraid,
we gazed into the fire and
thought. Then we stared,
nervously, into the night, and
listened for Dad’s return, but
heard only the wind and the
mopoke.
At dawn he appeared again,
with a broad smile on his face,
and told us that Mother had got
another baby—a fine little chap.
Then we knew why Mrs. Brown
had been staying at our place.
Good Old Bess
e UPPER was over at Shingle
Hut, and we were all seated
round the fire—all except Joe.
He was mousing. He stood on
the sofa with one ear to the wall
in a listening attitude, and
brandished a table-fork. There
were mice, mobs of them, be-
tween the slabs and the paper
(layers of newspapers that had
been pasted one on the other for
years until they were an inch
thick); and whenever Joe located
a mouse he drove the fork into
the wall and pinned it—or
reckoned he did.
Dad sat pensively at one
corner of the fireplace, Dave at
the other, with his elbows on his
knees and his chin resting in his
palms.
“Think you could ride a race,
Dave?” asked Dad.
“Yairs,” answered Dave, with-
out taking his eyes off the fire,
or his chin from his palms,
“Could, I suppose, if I’d a pair
o’ lighter boots ’n these.”
Again they reflected.
Joe triumphantly held up the
mutilated form of a murdered
mouse and invited the household
to look. No one heeded him.
“Would your Mother’s gd on
you?”
“Might.” And Dave spat into
the fire.
“Anyway,” Dad went on, “we
must have a go at this handicap
with the old mare. It’s worth
trying for, and, believe me, now,
she’ll surprise a few of their flash
hacks, will Bess.”
“Yairs, she can go all right.”
And Dave spat again into the
fire. •
“Go / I’ve never known any-
thing to keep up withjier. Why,
bless my soul, seventeen years
ago, when old Redwood owned
her, there wasn’t a horse in the
district could come within cooee
of her. All she wants is a few
feeds of corn and a gallop or
two, and mark my words shell
show some of them the way.”
Some horseraces were being
promoted by the shanty-keeper
at the Overhaul, seven miles
from our selection. They were
the first of the kind held in the
district, and the stake for the
principal event was five pounds.
It wasn’t because Dad was a
racing man or subject in any
way to turf hallucinations that
he thought of preparing Bess for
the meeting. We sadly needed
those five pounds, and, as Dad
put it, if the mare could only
win, it would be an easier and
much quicker way of making a
bit of money than waiting for a
crop to grow.
Bess was hobbled and put into
a two-acre paddock near the
house. We put her there because
of her wisdom. She was a chest-
nut, full of villainy, an abso-
lutely incorrigible old rogue. If
at any timS she was wanted when
ii! the grass-paddock, it required
the lot of us, from Dad down,
to yard her, as well as our dogs
and every other dog in the
neighborhood. Not that she had
any brumby element in her—she
would have been easier to yard
if she had —but she would drive
steadily enough, alone or with
other houses, until she saw the
yard, when she would turn and
deliberately walk away. If we
walked to head her she beat us
by half a length ; if we ran she
ran and stopped when we
stopped. That was the aggravat-
ing part of her. When it was
only to go to the store or the
post-office that we wanted her,
we could have walked there and
back a dozen times before we
could run her down ; but, some-
how, we generally preferred to
work hard catching her rather
than walk.
When we had spent half the
day hunting for the curry-comb,
which we didn’t find. Dad began
to rub Bess down with a corn-
cob—a shelled one —and trim
her up a bit. He pulled her tail
and cut the hair off her heels
with a knife ; then he gave her
some corn to eat, and told Joe
he was to have a bundle of
thistles cut for her every night.
Now and again, while grooming
her, Dad would step back a few
paces and look upon her with
pride.
“There’s great breeding in the
old mare,” he would say. “Great
breeding. Look at the shoulder
on her, and the loin she has.
And where did ever you see a
horse with the same nostril?
Believe me, she’ll surprise a few
of them!”
We began to regard Bess with
profound respect; hitherto we
had been accustomed to pelt her
with potatoes and blue-metal.
The only thing likely to pre-
judice her chance in the race.
Dad reckoned, was a small sore
on her back about the size of a
foal’s hoof. She had had that
sore for upwards of ten years to
our knowledge, but Dad hoped
to have it cured before the race
came off with a never-failing
remedy he had discovered —
burnt leather and fat.
Every day, along with Dad,
we would stand on the fence
near the house to watch Dave
gallop Bess from the bottom of
the lane to the barn—about a
mile. We could always see him
start, but immediately after he
would disappear down a big
gully, and we would see nothing
more of the gallop till he came
to within a hundred yards of us.
And wouldn’t Bess bend to it
(i Continued on page 30)


But Me
someth/^
blueism/
OH JILL, m
I SO UNHAPPY!
808 USED TO BE
MV BEST MAN-
BUT LOOK AT HIM
NOW!
HULLO SALiY-
HOW LOVELY
YOU UDOKI /
BUT WHY )
SO BLUE?/
/
it.
LZJJ:
SALLY sees HER VEHT/ST
SCIENTIFIC TESTS
PROVE THAT, IN 7 CASES
OUT OF 10, COLGATE'S
REMOVES THE CAUSE
OF BAD BREATH .
IT ALSO HELPS TO
STOP TOOTH
DECAY.
11
WHAT HAVE I DONE TO
MAKE HIM TREAT ME LIKE THIS?
/ SALLY, \
f FORGIVE ME-1
BUT WHAT yDU I
p SHOULD DO IS
SEE YOUR DENTIST,
A80UT.... .
kBAD BREATH /i
u
ITS WEDDING- BELLS
AND ME -THANKS
TO COLGATE DENTAL CREAM 11
$
/T
<7
Tests Published in Authoritative Dental Literature
Show That Brushing Teeth Right After Eating with
COLGATE DENTAL
CREAM STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Mori thoroughly proved and
accepted home method of
oral hygiene known today.
Yes, and two years’ re-
search showed the Colgate
way stopped more decay
for more people than ever
before reported in denti
frice history! No other
dentifrice offers such
proof—the most conclu
sive proof ever reported
for a dentifrice of any type.
OS£ COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
S TO CLEAN YOUR BREATH
/ while you clean your teeth \
"S AND HELP STOP TOOTH
DECAY BEST
koi|
Buy the Big
Family Economy Size
America’s Largest, Australia's Largest, ths World's Largest Selling Dental Gream
M 53
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILIPS, R. J. VICARS,
J. W. DUNLOP. A. H. DICKINS. O. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
The Bud will blossom
By MATTHEW
SILVESTER
‘(TIME is getting on,” said
the Prime Minister
I harshly. “It is just after
seven - thirty and my
meeting is at eight. I want to
revise my notes; and I must say,
Greenstreet, that you have upset
me very much.”
He didn’t look very upset,
though. He never did. For
twenty-five years he had been a
member of the House, “and so,”
as one of his colleagues put it
rather nastily, “he eventually
became Prime Minister.” He had
simply worn down opposition.
Length of service, a rough
elephantine wit, meticulous
attention to detail and an air of
complete imperturbability had all
combined nicely to raise him to
the position of first Minister of
State. Physically he had little
to recommend him; of medium
height, bald, shortsighted, lean:
he could and did pass un-
noticed in any crowd. A
teetotaller and non-smoker, he
was not foftd of social life ; and,
because in consequence few
people got to know him really
well, he was credited with far
more intelligence than he actually
possessed.
One man did know him well —
and was afraid of him. This was
Alex Hewlett, general-secretary
of the party, who at this moment
was sprawled in an easy-chair
in the Prime Minister’s, hotel
suite, a cigarette dangling from
his lips, gazing with sleepy,
narrowed eyes at young Green-
street, a party-member who, to
the surprise of almost everybody,
including himself, had been
successful at a by-election only
three months before. Hewlett’s
job, in fact though not in theory,
depended on the goodwill of
Jackson, the Prime Minister and
political leader of the party.
Once, and once only, Hewlett
had attempted to disagree with
Jackson. Once was enough.
Jackson had interrupted him
before he had been half-way
through his story. “You will do
precisely what I say,” the Prime
Minister had said, without rais-
ing his voice, “or you will vacate
your, position as secretary at this
moment. And now, leave my
office immediately.”
That was all. Till then, on the
strength of having entertained
Jackson at his home, and haying
spent weeks together in his com-
pany in the course of speaking-
tours, Hewlett had imagined that
Jackson was his friend; hence-
forth he knew what Greenstreet,
the silly young fool, would learn
before many more minutes had
passed, that Jackson lived solely
for himself and the party, and
that he would crush his closest
friend with as little compunction
as he would swat a fly.
Moreover, as was said of
Canning in the latter years of
his political career, Jackson had
become so confident in his own
judgment that he regarded any-
body who disagreed with him as
culpable of moral sin. And here
was Greenstreet, only twenty-
four years of age and almost a
complete political ignoramus,
pitting himself against the
formidable tyrant! He kept
wondering, as he idly drew on his
cigarette—carefully directing the
smoke in the opposite direction
from his chief—why Jackson
was being so patient.
flushed at
Jackson’s comment, but
stubbornly set his jaw.
, “I’m sorry, sir, if I’ve taken
up too much of your time,” he
said hesitantly. “You know, of
course, how grateful I am that
you have agreed to come to this
Godforsaken place and address
party-supporters here.' But, I
repeat, just about everybody
knows what my opinion of
Gristhirst is. It is fantastic that-
you should appoint him to the
chairmanship of the Shipping
Board. I say again that he is an
unprincipled scoundrel. A
skunk! There are thousands of
decent, honest people in this
country who were swindled out
of their savings by this damnable
rogue, and I believe you know
that as well as I do.”
Jackson stared fixedly at him.
“Swindle, Greenstreet, is an ugly
word. It is also libellous. I
trust you are not in the habit of
speaking like that to others?”
Hewlett smiled behind his
hand. The Prime Minister’s
familiar tactics. Keep away from
the point at issue, find something
to condemn in what your
opponent has said, concentrate
on that.
Greenstreet fidgeted uncom-
fortably. “I know my • charges
are true, even though Gristhirst
—and that’s not his real name,
by the way—was cunning
enough to escape a prosecution.”
“You will not escape one
yourself if you speak like that,”
said Jackson sternly. “Gristhirst
is not a man to be taken lightly,
as you may discover to your
cost. ' A prosecution would
seriously prejudice your pros-
pects in the party, I tell you
plainly. As I told you last week,
I have been giving very serious
consideration to the matter of
your appointment as Under-
secretary to the Ministry of
Education. Your academic
qualifications fit you for the
post. Such quick advancement
will be resented by many of our
M.P.’s, even though only a few
of them have ever seen the inside
of a university. But you can
imagine my predicament when
I hear you talking like an
impulsive schoolboy.”
“Impulsive schoolboy! ”
Greenstreet’s face reddened. “I
suggest that you yourself watch
your words! If you think you
can insult me as you please, you
are very much mistaken.”
“I do watch my words. I
rarely make a statement that I
have not carefully considered
beforehand. You will realise
that when you know me better.
And bear in mind this: I say
what I am saying wholly for
your benefit. You have a
promising career ahead of you,
Greenstreet.” Closing his eyes
and leaning back in his chair;
“I envy you your attainments. I
intend to do everything possible
to help you. That is why I have
come here, at very considerable
inconvenience to myself. If you
wish to learn rapidly, you must
expect blunt speaking.”
Hewlett coughed to conceal his
grin. Oh, the old boy was a
past-master! Kick ’em in the
guts, then pat ’em on the back,
in rapid succession, so that in the
end they don’t know
they’ve had more kicks than
praise;; all they know is that
Jackson has gained his point.
“I’m sorry, sir,” Greenstreet
said humbly. “But, honestly, I
don’t see how I can stomach
Gristhirst. Why, even during the
campaign, only a few months
ago, I attacked him from the
public platform. Thousands
heard me and it was reported
widely in the Press. I said he
was the worst employer of labor
in the country, and every
employee on his staff will con-
firm that. Before he married
into the business, he was his
boss’s pimp: and this at the very
time when he was one of the
leading lights in the union. That
was proved up to the hilt. And
now, my own party gives him a
fat job at the taxpayers’ expense!
It’s incredible; it’s damn-
able ...”
“What’s done is done,” Hew-
lett said sententiously.
“Is that the best you can say,
Alex?” Greenstreet exclaimed,
turning round to face the
general - secretary. “You re-
member, I mentioned to you
before my first meeting that I
intended to denounce Gristhirst.
You didn’t object at that time.
Now you’re in favor of his
appointment, too!”
TTEWLETT mentally kicked
himself. Why the hell had
Greenstreet let the cat out of the
bag like that! Up till now,
lackson had not been aware that
Hewlett had known and
approved of what Greenstreet
had said.
Carefully avoiding the Prime
Minister’s malevolent stare,
Hewlett said “I’m afraid your
conversation about Gristhirst
didn’t register with me too well
at the time. I was too busy with
other things. But, anyhow.
what’s the good of raising a fuss
at this stage? The announce-
ment has been made. Moreover,
there has been no fuss over it, as
there would have been if we’d
appointed a party supporter.
We’ve jacked too many of our
fellows into jobs already. The
public would have raised a hell
of a row if we’d done the same
thing again. For God’s sake
have some sense!” he concluded
ill-temperedly.
Greenstreet was feeling beaten.
But—how could .he face the
crowd again after what he had
said! Only a few hours before,
he had assured a deputation of
party members that he intended
to do his best to induce the Prime
Minister to revoke the appoint-
ment. Moreover, he had con-
veyed the impression—though
he hoped now that he had not
said so in plain terms—that he
would resign from the party if
he could not get satisfaction.
Resignation. Well, that wouldn’t
cost him much except an
under-secretaryship for the
next four years; he would still
draw his pay as a member of
Parliament; but, after that—
well, precious few independents
get elected to Parliament these
days. It is the age of the party
machine. Yet...
“You better forget about that
under-secretaryship, sir,” he said
abruptly. “I need some time to
consider my position. All this
has been a very great shock to
me. I’ll have to think things
over.”
lackson smiled thinly. “Your
time to think things over is very
limited, Greenstreet,” he said
softly as he polished his glasses,
“very, very limited. You have
in fact precisely five minutes.
1 am not accustomed to engag-
ing in an argument for very long.
There are other much more
necessary things to be done. You
will express your entire agree-
ment with Gristhirst’s appoint-
ment before I address the meet-
ing Within the next quarter of an
hour, or I shall be compelled to
explain to the gathering that
already you are attempting to
dictate to the Government and
to me, and that you have uttered
threats that can no longer be
ignored. Pray don’t raise your
voice!” as Greenstreet jumped
to his feet. “With as much
patience as I can muster under
the circumstances, I have put up
with your snivelling. Sit down,
will you! Don’t for one
moment imagine that you can
threaten me!”
Greenstreet’s hands slowly
unclenched, “There is no time
to beat round the bush,” the
Prime Minister continued.
“Snivelling I said, snivelling it is.
You have made a rod for your
own back. You -have been an
utter fool. You can continue to
be one if you like ; that’s your
affair. The party does not really
need your seat; our majority is
substantial; you can leave us or
stay with us as you please. I
hope,” a new tone coming into
his voice, “that you will stay
with us. All of us, in our
younger days, have made serious
political mistakes. We must
learn to profit from them. I
quite understand your predica-
ment and wish I could do some-
thing about it. I regard you as
a distinct acquisition to our
team. I want,” closing his eyes
and leaning back wearily in his
chair, “to be able to rely on you
—implicitly. I want to be able
MIST
Pale horse without rider
drinking at the river,
who to claim you,
who to name you
as his own for ever?
Pale horse without rider
browsing by the river,
The whistle clear
is for your ear
and only yours for ever.
Pale horse, invisible rider,
gone away for ever,
hastening to
a rendezvous
far beyond the river.
N.S.W.
E. NORMAN.


BULLETS Special Offer
Fully Guaranteed .22 long rifle
This is your chance to buy first quality .22 long rifle
bullets at special low prices. Packed in quantities from
100 to 10,000, they can be sent immediately to any
address in Australia.
Price:
9/10
per 100
(F.O.R.
MELBOURNE)
Enquire through our Local Branch or write direct to:
GOLDSBROUGH MORT & CO. LTD.
554 Bourke Street, Melbourne. C.l.
ONLY MOBSLCO
GIVES YOU ALL
r,
CIRCULAR SAW
£
You can fell a tree faster, you can cross-cut it
quicker with the up-to-date SHAFT DRIVEN
Mobilco, fitted with 36" to 42" blade. But that is
not all; there are SEVEN time-saving, money
saving "quick-fit" attachments to work for you all
year round. The Mobilco One-Man Saw is a
necessity for the contractor and man on the land.
There's no cheaper, and certainly no better, way
to do §o many jobs. Get the full details. Write
for catalogue now.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE
TELEGRAMS - - - MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE RD., MITCHAM, VIC.
PHONE - - - - WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
AGENTS - - ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
EQUIPMENT
LIMITED
PHONE; LF 4209
0 DRAG SAW
RIPPING LEG
CROSS CUTTING BENCH
0
RIPPING BENCH
» POST HOLE DIGGER
0
BOR
O POST
to repose absolute trust in you.
But, can I do it?”
Greenstreet walked oyer to the
window and stood looking at the
street-lights. Over the road was
the hall where the Prime Minister
was to speak. Already some
people were going in. Presently,
he would be there on the plat-
form with Jackson and Hewlett,
"Now I can relax."
enjoying the plaudits of the mob,
being upheld as a champion of
democracy, better working con-
ditions, lower living costs and
God knows what else ; or, would
he? There was nobody in the
wide world that he detested mote
than the greasy fat blob who
called himself Gristhirst. It was
through him that his father had
died a pauper, and by his own
hand. And to think that the
Government —his Government—
was giving this already-wealthy
scoundrel a £5OOO-a-year job and
all the honors that went with it!
Curse and damn everything and
everybody!
“Mr. Jackson,” he said sud-
denly, wheeling round to face the
Prime Minister, “would you mind
telling me this? Why did you
give Gristhirst that job?”
The Prime Minister stared
vacantly at the ceiling. “There
are some things,” he said, “that
maybe I should not confide in
you. I would not do so if I did
not hold such a high opinion of
your character and,” smiling
inwardly, “your discretion. It
is the case that Gristhirst has
been very helpful to the party.
Very helpful. A substantial
sum,” rubbing his skinny hands
together. “We much appreciated
his generosity. You know, the
collection of funds is always a
much easier task for an Opposi-
tion than for a Government.
Supporters tend to become
rather —er —disgruntled, over one
thing and another ; they are dif-
ficult to please, as you will soon
discover. And a party must have
funds.”
So that was it. Qreenstreet
should have guessed. His expres-
sion of contempt and scorn was
so apparent that Hewlett looked
away. But not the Prime
Minister. He glanced at his
watch and exclaimed “Well?
Have you anything more to
say?”
“No.” Greenstreet thrust his
hands in his pockets and turned
towards the door.. “If you don’t
mind, Jackson”—this time he
deliberately omitted the “mister”
—l’ll ring my wife. Oh, don’t
worry,” he added sarcastically.
“You will get your answer within
sixty seconds. But I’d like to get
her opinion first, even if I don’t
take any notice of it.”
“As you please.” The Prime
Minister laid his notes on the
table and started to make some
corrections in pencil. The door
slammed hard.
“Alex,” said Jackson, looking
up from his papers. “We can’t
afford to lose this seat. Have
you any suggestion to offer?”
“Yes. Wring his bloody neck.”
rang his wife.
She answered the phone, and
that was unusual. She knew
that she should have been along
at the meeting. A chair had
been provided for her. In the
political game a wife counts for
a lot. Women like to see qne
of their sex at any political meet-
ing, so long as they don’t open
their traps. Sit dumb, smile
every now and again, be what
every wife should be but often
is not: guide, counsellor and
friend.
But Enid would not *sit dumb
and smile —at least, not in
Greenstreet’s company. They
had been married for two years:
a forced marriage ; in that short
time the feather-brained Enid
had turned into a perfect shrew.
“A dark house and a detested
wife.” Greenstreet smiled
rather grimly as he dialled his
home number. Probably she
wouldn’t be home ; anyhow, not
if she had managed to get some-
body in to look after the child.
She would be off to one of her
numerous boozing friends in
search of gossip and drink. Why
bother to ring at all? Green-
street hesitated, replaced the re-
ceiver, then took it up again.
If he was going to resign from
the party —and there seemed to
be no other alternative —he had
better let her know. A good
shock might be just what she
needed.
She was home, and in a bad
temper.
“You gave me a fright,” she
said petulantly. “I was just
lying down for a few minutes and
had dozed off. You woke me
up, and now I hear your kid”
—she always referred to “your”
kid as though it was no fault of
hers that it had been brought
into the world —“starting to
bawl.”
“That’s just too bad.” He
himself was feeling in no
pleasant mood. “I just wanted
to tell you that I’ve had a
serious difference with Jackson.
Seems as though my ‘promising’
political career is to terminate
very early in the piece.”
There was a few moments’
silence.
“That means you won’t get
your under-secretaryship?” All
she knew about that office was
that it carried higher pay.
“Exactly.”
That was too much. “You
utter damned fool!” she
screamed. “Now you’ll have
to go back to teaching, I sup-
pose. Don’t think I’m going to
scrimp and scrape on that lousy
salary. You can keep your kid
and I’ll get out! You just go
and apologise to that old fool
Jackson. Who do you think
you are to argue with the Prime
Minister?”
“I’ve got my ideals,” he re-
plied curtly, “and I’m not going
to have them trampled on, not
by Jackson or anyone else. Of
course you wouldn’t understand
what ideals are, you” He
checked himself just in time.
The receiver at the other end
went down with a crash. Green-
street sat on the edge of the
table thinking things over. The
seconds ticked away. Suddenly
he saw a picture of himself in
a bare schoolroom trying to
keep a pack of unruly boys
reasonably quiet while he
drummed into them the elements
of maths and science.
“Hell,” he muttered.
He walked back to Jackson
and told him what he had
decided to do.
'THE Prime Minister’s speech
was not being received as
well as he had expected. Cer-
tainly there was applause at the
right moments; the old stal-
warts of the party, in the audi-
ence, saw to that; but there was
little enthusiasm.
Jackson had no doubts as to
the merits of his speech, just as
he never had any doubts at all
concerning anything he set his
hand to. He had said the same
things hundreds of times before
and they had always proved
quite effective. “We don’t get a
fair deal from the Press.... feel
sorry for the Opposition, they
have so little to complain about
... .we won’t allow the people to
be exploited.... .plenty of work
for everybody, always will be
under this Government... .more
houses being built today than
ever before... .enemies of the
Government never been more
active”....
Jackson ploughed on steadily,
trying to sense the feeling of the
meeting so that he could strike
the right note. So far he hadn’t
managed to grip them; and
then he knew why. They wanted
to know what Greenstreet in-
tended to do about Gristhirst’s
appointment; they expected
Jackson to raise the matter him-
self and tell them the full story.
Even if the . incident had
passed out of their minds after
the meeting began the sight of
Greenstreet’s sullen, dejected
face would have served as a
reminder. The Prime Minister
raised his voice and launched
into a long tirade about the sel-
fish capitalists who objected to
price-control solely because they
wanted more and more profits,
while all the time he was think-
ing just how he could deal with
the .Shipping Board without
telling them anything really
worth while. The solution came
to him just as he was finishing
his section on prices.
He was always at his best, he
reflected complacently, when
audiences were not submissive.
Perhaps it was because, on such
occasions, he had to strain every
nerve to cope with the situa-
tion. And, whenever he
addressed a meeting in which
farmers, and rural folk generally,
predominated, as was the case
at present, he always felt more-
or-less uncomfortable. City-
bred himself and accustomed to
associate mainly with city people,
he was never quite at home in a
country gathering.
His colleagues, practically all
whom represented urban
constituencies, said much the
same thing. “I couldn’t get
going because of the smell of
cowdung and stale milk,” one
of them had commented dis-
gustedly after he had returned
from addressing a meeting in
support of Greenstreet during
the recent by-election. That was
an exaggeration, of course. All
the same, there was a difference.
For one thing, they seemed to
be weighing up his words as he
was speaking: not taking them
for granted as any of his own
constituents would. Yes, they
almost seemed as though they
were trying to make up their
minds whether or not he was
telling them the truth! No
wonder his party had never been
very successful in rural elector-
ates.
Well, he had won this one.
“And we’ve got to keep it, if
only to prove that we are not
only a town party,” Jackson
told himself.
DVERY one of the hundred or
so, except a few dozen
women, was smoking. The air
was blue with smoke. Smoking
prohibited, said a big faded
notice on the wall. The fellow
who had caused that to be
tacked up hadn’t allowed for the
habits of these cockies, who were
accustomed to ignore anything
that they didn’t agree with;
just as they would ignore Jackson
himself if what he said didn’t
suit their book.
How had Greenstreet managed
to get their votes in the face of
their traditional hostility? No-
body else could have won the
seat for the party, Jackson re-
flected grimly. Greenstreet had
a good war record; he was a
good mixer; he had excelled at
sport; he had had a brilliant
academic career ; he had stacks
of energy; above all, he was
earnest and sincere. What he
said he believed.
And somehow or other all
these people had decided actively
to support him and had worked
like Trojans to secure his elec-
tion. Already the skids were
under Greenstreet. But the day
would be saved for him and for
the party; “And only I could
do it,” Jackson told himself.
o Continued on next page )


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established mua in Reign of
Qeorge 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(.England)
N.S.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
C(wos& uouh, fpAHJtoJU&
ftumstke, f
VAUXHALL fcm Mw l
wmmmm
-
m
Vauxhall Vagabonds.
“King of the Open
Road.” A glorious
5-6 sealer, easily convertible
to snug all-weather use, with
very big luggage compart-
ment.
HAVE you seen them at close range sat in them —
driven them? Famous favourite though Vauxhall
is, they far excel all earlier Vauxhalls
... for roominess and beauty ... for the
intense liveliness of Vauxhall’s
NEW 15.63 h.p. and 23.44 h.p. SQUARE
engines . . . and still with.such economy
as has endeared Vauxhalls to generations of
owners. There are SIX to choose from now ...
the three body-styles shown . . . each with your
Vauxhall Saloons.
Spacious comfort for 5 to 6,
luxurious interiors, the most
distinguished-looking, keenly-
priced car on the roads to-
day.
choice of Wyvern 4-cyl. or Velox 6-cyl. SQUARE
engine.' Choose your favourite . . .
15.63 h.p. O.H.V. 4-cyl. Wyvern . . 23.44 h.p. O.H.Y. 6-cyl. Velox.
A General Motors Product >
GENERAL M OTO RS - H O LDE N’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE « PERTH
CnM nnA cprvirprl hv Vmnehnll Annlprs throuffhaut Australia.
VS9-30NP
Ask your dealer about the
G.M.A.C. confidential hire-
purchase p/an and “Air-chief”
ear radio.
Vauxhall 10 cwt.
Coupe-Utilities.
Generous carrying
space, passenger
luxury for 3, striking modem
styling, independent front
suspension.
It was worth coming all this way
to secure such a victory.
Putting his notes down on .the
table and smiling amiably, he
turned to Greenstreet, who was
sitting beside him on the plat-
form.
“We in our party are united,”
he, said. “That unity will, I am
certain, be strengthened by the
addition to our team of your
brilliant young member, Mr.
Greenstreet.” There was a
spontaneous outburst of ap-
plause ; when the whistling and
clapping had died down the
Prime Minister continued.
“Mr. Greenstreet is not a yes-
man." Unconsciously Green-
street nodded agreement. “We
don’t want, yes-men in our
party. The Opposition is the
place for them. We want men
with ideas, with brains, with
minds of their own, men of
character and ability who can
pull their full weight in the
mighty task of government. In
the short time that I have known
your member I have formed the
opinion that we have such a
man in him. I congratulate you
on your perspicacity ; your trust
will be amply justified ; the daj
will surely come when he will
address you not as a new recruit
in the House but as the first
Minister of State. That is my
opinion of him”.... It was
nearly a minute before he could
resume.
“Ladies and gentlemen,” Jack-
son continued, “I want to men-
tion an incident, just as an
illustration of the character of
the man who has the honor to
represent you. Only today Mr.
Greenstreet approached me
about a very serious matter. I
do not propose to inform you
what that matter was, since” —
again that confiding smile —“I
do not think we should go out
of our way to provide the
Opposition with political am-
munition. I am sure you would
agree with that. Mr. Green-
street’s views were not in
accordance with mine. I con-
sidered he was wrong and I told
him so. But he refused to
budge. Rightly or wrongly—
and I for one have never made
the claim that I cannot make a
mistake —he took a stand from
which he would not budge. As
proof of his courage he offered
to resign not merely from the
party but from the House”...
“Liar! ” thought Greenstreet,
looking uncertainly at the audi-
ence. But what he saw there
sent a thrilling feeling through
him. They were looking at him
as though he was a god! The
damned fools! But wasn’t it
pleasant! He knew he wanted
more of this. Principles...
ideals.. but what a leader
Jackson was! “Out of this
thorn —or nettle? —danger, I
pluck this flower, safety...”
Something like that. He was,
beaten ; yet he had scored a vic-
tory! Oh, confound everything ;
and, catching Jackson’s eye, he
smiled his gratitude.
“He was determined to stick
by his guns, no matter what sac-
rifice it entailed. But do you
think that I could allow such
a promising career to be cut
short? I would be unworthy of
my position as leader of your
party if I harbored such a
thought for one moment—for
one moment. ‘Mr. Greenstreet,’
I said, ‘you owe a duty to your
country and to your party, and
that should come before all
else.’ When he still remained
adamant I enlisted the support
of Mr. Hewlett, who you all
know” —there was another round
of clapping and whistling—“and
finally, to my immense delight,
Mr. Greenstreet...” His final
words were blotted out by a
clamor that fairly made the win-
dows rattle.
Greenstreet rose un-
steadily to his feet. He had
never been noted as one who
could conceal his emotions;
now he was quite overcome.
Blindly he stretched out his hand
to Jackson...
And now what? he thought as
he felt his hand being shaken
vigorously. The answer came
from Hewlett, a few words spat
out of the corner of his mouth.
“Sit down, you bloody fool!”
WHAT'S WRONG WITH
RICHMOND?
by "Freddie"
/"| T Test Flight, Amberley,
f \ Queensland,’44, Joe could
I take more “G” than
Brownie or myself. “G”
is how hard your bottom hits the
seat pulling out of a dive. Two
“G” makes a 10-stone man feel
like 20 to his bucket-seat. About
13 “G” pulls the wings off a
P. 40.
In his last test Joe apparently
attained 13 • “G.” When the
wings came off he must have
flung back the canopy and tried
to get out, because his head
bounded some distance from the
smoking crater.
The chief technical officer had
ontnw^nnna^fnr- 3 t'hp 1 • nnnri
one low enough [or the giound
nrlmson motor' 8§ “
new Allison motor.
We heard him hit the blue
note corning down. The tech-
meal blokes were happy. They
heard the Allison splutter in the
scream crescendo.
DURING the afternoon
Brownie and I were told to
slow-time a brace of P.4o’s to
Richmond, near Sydney, and test
a new batch o£ high-altitude
Spit. B’s.
Two hours later in Richmond
mess we heard them nattering
about the fact that, though Joe
was being cremated in Queens-
land, his Sydney family were
attending a proxy church service
at Manly next day.
Brownie drained his beer and
turned to me, ersatz grin crack-
ing the new 7 face they’d made
him at St. Dunstan’s, and said
“Let’s formate a coupler Spits
over Manly—let his people know
we thought he was important.”
Then, “Cremation!” exploded
Brownie. “Jeez, are they going
to burn him again?”
Next morning green-bellied
clouds shrouded Sydney’s pent-
houses. Not a plane aloft from
Gabo Island to Queensland.
Rain anchored the clouds to
earth like whalebone.
Peering at the Weather through
the crew-room window, marked
Window for looking at prangs
through, I said to Brownie, “Is
this trip really necessary?”
“It wouldn’t stop Joe,”
Brownie said, with that
mechanical grin on his retread
face.
Flight-Sergeant Smitheis m a
rain-soaked grey R.A.F. over-
coat came j n anc j sa id “Spits
ready as requested, sir, but you
won’t be goin’?”
. Bro t wnie was the better pilot,
though younger and junior in
ruddy mask
Wlt h a stubby hand he said “You
l ead ; let’s go.”
Muggs, the W.A.A.A.F., said
“Cup of tea first?”
Brownie said “Above all
things—we must have a cupper.”
vttE took off, I on instruments
VV w j t h little faith and Brownie
formating close. His prop-blades
f an ned my right wing-tip
Rain-screened ghmpses of
orchards red-tiled roofs clutter
Q f city buildings, bridge,’harbor,
pine-trees. Manly ... ’
w e turned over Narrabeen
anc j made a low repeat low—
pasS|over Manly. Sodden green
Q f golf-course, mah-jongg pieces
on end—the cemetery, and we
turned back over Rose Bay;
Manly again.
I saw a reddish beach cocked
sideways as we turned south. I
thought “Mascot 180 degrees,
five minutes.” Brownie hadn’t
budged from his position.
Rain-whipped harbor. Red
roofs. White in the downpour,
Sydney High School. Moore
Park. I looked at the Sperry
panel—stiff 180 degrees, 200 ft.,
speed 220, A silver cross —
Mascot’s rain-shiny runways.
I called Brownie on the radio-
telephone : “What about
Mascot?”
He said “What’s wrong with
Richmond?”
It was too late then for
Mascot. I thought, “God!
Here’s where we buy it! ” Then,
“Well, what’s it matter?” —but
headed west for Bankstown,
counting minutes.
Stanmore tenements like
crocodile spines; high-tension
wires over glistening streets;
Newington oval —too small. We
breasted a hill, saw the river
curling round rain-shrouded
Bankstown ’drome. I screeched
“What about Bankstown?”
Brownie said “What’s wrong
with Richmond?”
I thought “What’s wrong with
me?”
'T'URNING on to 350 degrees
■*- I again counted minutes.
Saw Prospect Dam sliding under
the port wing. Risking another
glance from the panel, saw
Brownie stuck like glue, his wing-
tip abreast of my roundel, prop
twirling on my own wing,
helmed skull turned towards me.
Formating.
I called Richmond tower
“Two Spits v landing in six
minutes. When you hear us fire
a Verey.”
I was thinking “One minute
past Richmond you hit the hill
the Lapstone pub’s on.”
The tower said “Richmond
closed, but willco. Good luck.”
Faint glimmer of red Verey
curling in the deluge. Rain-
glisten on hangar roofs.
Richmond.
Completely forgetting Brownie
I steep-turned round the ’drome,
stuffed down wheels and flaps
and bored-in regardless. When
I cut the motor at the flight-line
Brownie’s prop stopped beside
me. He’d learned formation in
the Battle of Britain.
CTTEDDING his gear in the
cockpit Brownie dropped off
the wing to the mud beside me.
His legs were so cramped from
two hours’ close flying that he
stumbled.
I kneed him in the backside,
and he fell face down in the
mud.
Getting up. Brownie said
“Why did you do that to me?”
“Why did you do this to me ?”
I said.
He said, “I’ve got a
W.A.A.A.F. fixed here for
tonight.”


"THE LETTERS
OF RACHEL HENNING"
Over 9500 copies of this fascinating, factual and
intimate story of Australians a hundred years
ago have now been sold. Its historical and
entertainment value has been applauded by
critics in Australia and abroad. Rachel Henning
without doubt has become an enduring character
fn Australian literature. The Norman Lindsay
illustrations in the book are superb.
7s. 6d., post-free
%■
Copies of “The Letters of Rachel Henning” are
again available from “The Bulletin” offices in
Melbourne, Brisbane or Perth, or from The
Book Department, “The Bulletin,” Box 2521,
G.P.0., Sydney.
A Lawson Contemporary
THE GENTLE BOHEMIAN
By W. E. FITZ HENRY
/I LTHOUGH 36 years have
/H vanished, it might have
j been yesterday when, as a
small boy who had left
school the day before, I entered
a third-floor room in The
Bulletin office, then at 214
George-street, Sydney.
The room was larger than the
usual’editorial offices in the old
building, but was as crowded
and as untidy as any of them.
A vast table was littered with
piles of yellowed papers, tattered
reference-books and Government
reports. So was the floor.
A thirsty person had left a
collection of empty beer-bottles
in a corner under the banner of
a temperance society. On one
wall hung a plaster bas-relief,
very fly-specked, of the profile
of the Hon. E. W. O’Sullivan,
The windows had not
been washed since the Boer War,
and bedraggled blinds flapped
listlessly in a summer wind. On
the sill outside weeds grew in a
window-box that was falling to
pieces.
A seedy room, but with one
note of brightness—a gallery of
photographs pasted on a
panelled wall. There smiled, as
if in welcome, Nellie Stewart and
Dorothy Brunton, Vera Pearce,
Ada Reeve and Queenie Paul and
other stars of the Australian
stage. I was to live with them
for nearly six months as office-
boy to Bertram Stevens, who was
editing the old “Lone Hand.”
It was at the door of this room
that Henry Lawson, puffing from
the effort of his long climb, asked
in a loud voice if Gabriel was in.
Norman Lindsay, who had
worked there, was held to be
responsible for the picture of a
cow that graced its walls, and
David McKee Wright was
suspected of having owned the
stained, frayed, dark-grey coat
which hung in a corner of the
room, and was still hanging
there when The Bulletin moved
further up George-street. Niya
Becke, Louis Becke’s daughter,
worked in the same room ; so,
in turns, did A. G. Stephens,
J. H. M. Abbott and Ernest
O’Ferrall (“Kodak”) before I
was installed there, and Andree
Hayward (“T. the R.”), Arthur
H. Adams, and Harold Mercer
(“Hamer”) after my coming.
For reasons which I have
never been able to discover, a
printing firm by the name of
Syd Day, Ltd., had selected me
•that morning from a crowd of
other boys to run messages and
make myself generally useful
around the printery. Syd Day
occupied a floor of the rear block
of two buildings which then
housed The Bulletin. The firm
catered largely for the theatrical
trade, printing posters, pro-
grammes and tickets for J. C.
Williamson, and the “Theatre
Magazine,” then edited by Frank
Hill, famous for his straw-
boater, and the poetess Lala
Fisher.
Syd Day also printed, and had
a large interest in, the “Lone
Hand,” which had been estab-
lished by William Macleod in
1907 and published by him until
towards the end of 1915. He
then gave it up, and it, for its
part, gave up shortly after the
end of World War I, edited at
the end by Walter Jago.
An hour or so after I had
started to work for Syd Day I
upset a galley of type, and the
manager, deciding that I would
be a menace in the printery, sent
me with a note to Bertram
Stevens, informing him that he
was welcome to my services as
an office-boy at no charge and
with the compliments of Syd
Day. Perhaps there was some
sort of a feud between the printer '
and the editor of the “Lone ;
Hand.”
I can still remember crossing
the wooden bridge which con-
nected the two buildings, tread-
ing my way through the gloom
of The Bulletin’s literary
department and climbing two
flights of rickety stairs —the self-
same stairs which four years
afterwards no less exalted a
personage than Lord Northcliffe
had to ascend in darkness be-
cause I had forgotten to replace
a burnt-out electric-light globe.
I was then office-boy to S. H.
Prior of The Bulletin.
Bertram Stevens received me
almost as if I was one of his
distinguished contributors. He
made me take a seat, and, after
asking a few questions regarding
my schooling, which had been
of a rough-and-tumble variety,
he asked whether I knew the
words of “Clancy of the Over-
flow.” I said that I did, and
that I could also rpcite Dorothea
“My Country” and
The Gentle Bohemian, accurately
summed-up by Low.
Alice Werner’s “Bannerman of
the Dandenong.”
That seemed to satisfy Stevens,
perhaps because he had not long
before edited an anthology of
Australian verse for school-
children. He complimented me
on my knowledge of Australian
writings.
Actually, the compliment was
undeserved. I was more
acquainted with the adventures
of Sexton Blake and the mis-
fortunes of Billy Bunter than
the writings of Australian
authors. Apart from the poems
mentioned, I knew only a few
fragments from Kendall, Adam
Lindsay Gordon and Ogilvie.
As for prose, I had, of course,
read Mrs. /Eneas Gunn’s We of
the Never Never and Ethel
Turner’s Seven Little Australians
at school, and among the piles
of “Magnets” and “Gems” at
home were paper-back copies of
Rolf Boldrewood’s Robbery
Under Arms and Marcus
Clarke’s For the Term of His
Natural Life, which I had picked
up for a few pence from J. E.
Lusebrink, a fine old second-
hand bookseller out at J<egent-
street, Redfern.
The examination over, Stevens
: reached out a long arm and took
from a bookshelf a book of
poems by Victor Daley. Hand-
ing it to me, he said: “Here!
Take this. Browse through it
during your lunch-hour. You
brought some lunch, didn’t
you?”
I nodded, and was dismissed
for an hour. My lunch I
ate beneath an old Moreton Bay
tree in Lang Park, that small
triangle of grass and flower-
beds'on Church Hill, overlooked
by historic St. Phillip’s Church,
which S. H. Prior once declared
was The Bulletin’s parish
church at which the Religious
Editor prayed for the souls of
the rest of the literary staff.
It was my first introduction to
Daley; but I can’t really swear
that, as X munched my sand-
wiches, I was spellbound by
Daley’s “Sunset Fantasy,” or
that I sat
dreaming all a summer day
Of rare and dainty poems I would
write;
Love-lyrics delicate as lilac-scent.
Soft idylls woven of wind, and flower
and stream,
And songs and sonnets carven in fine
gold.
I doubt it. At fourteen I was
the usual little tough that
Norman Lindsay depicts in
Saturdee. It was not until years
after that I developed an appre-
ciation for Daley and Quinn
and the rest of them. I was
pretty raw in those days.
At all events, Stevens duly
installed me in the room, which
Cecil Mann (who also inherited
it, as an address between theatres
and other haunts) once described
in a Red Page article, only it
was a bigger room when I
occupied it —later it was divided
into two offices. Stevens made
working-space for me on the
large table and I was given a
pile of rejected manuscripts to
return, and a job pasting news-
paper clippings into a large
book. I made the tea, ran
messages, and sorted voting-
coupons for some popular-girl
competition Stevens was run-
ning.
It was a rare sort of job, and
I had a lot of spare-time on my
hands, since Stevens had little for
me to do and the manager of
Syd Day’s disowned me com-
pletely, while continuing to pay
me an insignificant salary every
week. I discovered a pile of
paper-backed one-shilling N.S.W.
Bookstall novels, which I spent
most of the day reading, with
the approval of Stevens, who
would say;
“Ah, you’re reading A Curate
in Bohemia! You must read
On Our Selection, too,” or
“There’s a copy of Tom Pagdin,
Pirate about somewhere. Get
hold of it, also Dan Kelly,
Outlaw.”
And so for nearly six months
I read every Bookstall novel in
the office —books by Ambrose
Pratt, Edward Dyson, “Steele
Rudd,” Arthur Wright, “Don
Delaney,” Randolph Bedford,
Ted Brady, Ralph Stock—the
whole lot of them—and Stevens
seemed to think that was just
what I should ,be doing. The
more I read the more delighted
he was, and when the Bookstall
novels ran out, he supplied me
with other reading matter— •
Louis Stone’s Jonah and all of
Henry Lawson’s prose, I
remember.
I forget who it was who
christened Bertram Stevens “The
Gentle Anthologist,” but the
Gentle Bohemian would have
suited him better, and, in either
case, the adjective was truly
descriptive. His gentleness took
the chill off my plunge into a
new and strange world. His
gentleness strengthened an early
resolve to have nothing to do
with any world other than that
of paper and ink. With patient
kindliness he gave me a love of
Australian writers, and a small
inkling of the workings of a
newspaper and of some of the
ups and downs of journalism.
Actually, Bertram Stevens
himself was not fitted by nature
for those sometimes severe ups
and downs. Henry Lawson has
stated that Stevens, when a law-
clerk with Allen, Allen and
Hemsley, had “a foolish, boyish
longing for the somewhat
doubtful society of ‘men of
letters * **
“He was,” said Henry, “a
bohemian at heart, but didn’t
look the part and couldn’t speak
the lines very well. He could
relax with the best of .us, but
he couldn’t be reckless.”
Henry advised him not to join
the ranks of literature, but ran
against “a .most unsuspected wall
of stubbornness and determina-
tion.”
“Had it been otherwise he
might have been prevented from
doing many foolish things for
our sakes,” added Henry, with a
sad shake of his head.
Bertram Stevens was closely
associated with Henry Lawson
in the carefree bohemian days in
Sydney, partly described by
George A. Taylor in Those Were
the Days and James Tyrrell in
Old Books, Old Friend, Old
Sydney. He was also associated
with Victor Daley, Nelson
Illingworth the sculptor, Jim
Philp of the “Chinese Herald,”
and Fred J. Broomfield (J. F.
Archibald’s “The Man With a
Book”), who sported a fierce,
pointed, dark moustache and
beard which made him look like
like D’Artagpan of The Three
Musketeers.
Stevens, too, in those days,
wore a moustache and a beard—
it was an “Imperial”—but he
could never rival the thunder of
Fred’s mighty booming voice.
Nor had he Fred’s repertoire of
awe-ihspiring oaths gleaned
from much reading about the
early pirates and navigators.
The six of them —Daley,
Illingworth, Philp, Broomfield,
Lawson and Stevens —would take
frequent weekend trips to
Gosford, not far from Sydney,
and to quote Henry again: “It
was mostly Bertram Stevens who
made up the shortage in fares.”
Like John Bede Dailey and
Andree Hayward, Stevens was
an easy mark for the bummers
who specially infested The
Bulletin. Norman Lindsay,
who suffered his share of the
same gentry, once said: “Litera-
ture in distress never had to
groan twice in Bertram’s
presence. He went around with
the hat and put many a quid—
including his own —in pockets
that badly needed it.”
Bertram Stevens could be just
as generous with his praise when
justified as he could with his
money. And, like all generous
men, he was often treated with
ingratitude. Dowell O’Reilly,
another just as gentle as Stevens,
was not one of the ungracious.
I recall an incident wherein a
gracious intention on O’Reilly’s
part deserved a better fate.
In the 1920 Christmas number
of The Bulletin there appeared
on the “Red Page” an arficle on
Australian writers, signed by a
name unknown to O’Reilly, to
whom it gave very high praise
as a writer of prose—there never
has been a more careful crafts-
man than O’Reilly in Australia.
O’Reilly was delighted, though,
such was his modesty, he thought
the tribute unearned. He
resolved to write to the unknown
author of the, article, care of The
Bulletin. But as the days
passed misgivings paralysed the
first impulse. He put off the
letter, but the impulse to write
came back time and again. Then
one day, in June, 1922, after
leaving with S. H. Prior, then
editor of The Bulletin, an
article which he had labored
over for weeks, and which he
thought would justify his
unknown admirer’s high praise,
the impulse to write a letter of
thanks surged up again. In
Dowell O’Reilly’s own words:
I ran Into Willy [i.e., myself], the
youthful guardian of the editorial
door.
“Willy,” I said impulsively, “will
you let me see a file of the 1920
Christmas number?”
He brought it. I found the article.
It was signed “Frank Grayson.”
“Do you know this chap?” I
ashed, pointing to the name. He
.looked and pondered.
* “No.”
“Has he written anything for “The
Bulletin” lately?”
i “No—l don’t think so.”
‘I want to write to him at once.
If I address a letter care of “The
Bulletin,” will it be forwarded?”
“Wait a moment—l’ll see if they
know him inside.”
When Willy returned he said
Quietly:
“ ‘Frank Grayson’ was Bertram
Stevens.”
Bertram Stevens had died six
months earlier—on February 14,
1932, to be exact.
I was sorry that Stevens never
got the letter O’Reilly meant to
write, for the two men were great
friends and in many ways very
much alike. Percival Serle has
said of Stevens that he “was a
modest man of quiet charm.
He was completely unselfish,
always anxious to help the
literary beginner or struggling
poet,” and of O’Reilly that he
was “witty, kindly, generously
tolerant and sensitive.”
Anyway, I remained with Syd
Day, on these singular terms,
nearly six months ; then a chance
came for me to double my
salary—l was getting 7s. 6d. a
week —and naturally I took it,
Stevens told me afterwards, when
I had joined The Bulletin, that
he did not know I was being so
poorly paid, and that, if he had
known, he would have paid me
extra out of his own pocket. ~He
made it up to me —not that 1
deserved such generosity—with
three one-pound notes and a
parcel of books. *


PROMINENT
ŵ
35mm Cameras—Coupled Rangefinder
VOIGXEANDER PROMINENT £2 Pltron
Syncro Compur, £B2/0/0. Ever-ready
Case £4/17/0
VITO 111 f 2 Pltron, £65/0/0. Ever-ready
Case £4/0/0
VITESSA £2 Pltron, £55/0/0. Ever-ready
Case .. 1 .. £4/0/0
We send C.0.D., lay-bys, easy terms.
Ail Orders Over £2O Carriage FREE
CAIRNS CAMERA CENTRE
' Hotel Australia Building,
19 Martin Place, Sydney
Public Notices
1, MARY OARAGEORGE, of Greel
nationality, born at Athens, Greece,
resident two years in Australia, now
residing at 103 Prince’s Highway, St.
Peters, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act, 1948.
I, peter BEKAKIS, of Greek
nationality, bom at Salonika, Greece,
resident for over 6 years in Australia,
now residing at 109 Stanley Street, East
Sydney, .intend to apply for naturalisa-
tion under the Nationality and Oitizen-
ship Act. 1948-1950. ,
re ESTATE of MARTHA BOWES.
BOWES; JAMES BOWES (son of the
late Alice and Thomas Bowes) or any
person having knowledge concerning_him
please communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
AMPLITE
LIGHTING
PLANTS
ẁ
Brilliant light at the press of a button
with AMPLITE Home Lighting Units.
12 Volt 300 Watt, 32 Volt 400 Watt,
£B9/10/0 ; 32 Volt 750 Watt, £142/10/0
Ideal for Farms, Caravans, Boats, Camps,
Battery Charging:, etc.
A'ASIA) aMPUO* PTY. LTD.
ARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMI’ERDOWN, N.S.W.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Sir Falcon and Opulent
(Sydney Cup winners) and Fox-
zami (Melbourne Cup) all
emerged from the ranks of
Sydney Mixed Stakes’ fields, and
Silver Phantom, latest winner in
similar company (now styled
Graduation Stakes), heads the
betting-market for this year’s
Epsom. And at least some
punters, leaving Rosehill after
Saturday’s racing, accepted
doubles-prices about the grey
speedster and prominent Metro-
politan Handicap horses which
at this stage seem a bit ridiculous.
After Silver Phantom’s
record—he is now a' four-year-
old —isn’t striking; he has won
little prizemoney and has beaten
only weak fields. He will be
tested in his next engagement,
probably the Warwick Stakes at
Warwick Farm on August 22,
which will be run at weight-for-
age over seven furlongs. The
grey is reported to be a “delicate
horse who needs nursing.” He
will need to be 100 per cent, fit
to win the Epsom. Anyway, the
big mile is about two months
away, and many things can
happen to racing in eight weeks.
Alinga, winner of the S.T.C.
Cup from Lord Saunders and
Ben Bow, went close to running
a Rosehill record for the mile-
and-a-half. His time, 2.31, was
a quarter of a second off
Columnist’s best, made in July,
1948, when the Cup was first
staged. Alinga’s splendid condi-
tion reflected credit on trainer
Paul Graham. As well, the now
seven-year-old gelding is deriv-
ing the benefit of not having
raced till his fourth year. Alto-
gether he has had 38 starts (23
wins) and has been twice out of
a place—a splendid record.
••i i • •
Alinga is now to be spelled at
the property of his owner, A. I.
Maple-Brown, at Goulburn
(N.5.W.)., and the present idea
is to get him ready for the Caul-
field Cup, in which he has the
luxury weight of 7.9. He has
lib. more in the Melbourne Cup
and 7.12 in the Metropolitan, but
it’s stated he won’t be contest-
ing the Randwick race. The
Caulfield Cup seems the logical
event for which to set a front-
running stayer.
Sydney sprinter Osborne must
be costing connections a lot of
money. He just can’t make the
winning-post. In his last seven
starts he has filled a minor place
each time, and at Rosehill had
again to be content with third
money, to Nagpuni and Bird-
wood. Osborne started at 5 to
4; backers, in fact, have taken
short prices about the gelding in
all his recent races. Birdwood
(100 to 1) should soon improve
on his second-placing. He was
having his first race for about
five months, and has developed
into a striking four-year-old.
Three-year-old gelding Persian
Link, winner at his latest starts
at Canterbury and Rosehill, was
bred by Mrs, M. Murrell, who
is hopeful the three-year-old will
turn out as good a stayer as his
dam. Two’s Company. By Denis
Boy (imp.) from Honeymoon by
Spearhead (imp.). Two’s Com-
pany has had five colt foals,
three of which have raced and
all won —Vital Link, Sea Edge
and Persian Link, Persia, by
Hiraji, should get stayers; he’s
closely related to Limarch and
Te Kara, two New Zealand
gallopers of note.
In the autumn of 1951 Lucky
Sequel was purchased as a
yearling for 900gns., but it wasn’t
till Saturday at Rosehill that he
won his first race, the Auburn
Graduation Stakes worth £624.
However, he was heavily sup-
ported. The now four-year-old
gelding, who carries the same
colors as his half-brother. Lucky
Draw, is by Delville Wood
(imp.) from Calista by Gay
Lothario (imp.) from Lancegay
by Spearhead (imp.), sire of
stayers. Lancegay won races
on Melbourne courses.
Melbourne has some ‘smart
three-year-old fillies, and so
many accepted for the Elstem-
wick Stakes at Caulfield that two
divisions were necessary in the
seven-furlongs race. Well-
perfprmed Wynvale made her
tally three wins and a third from
her last four starts, while
Panhua improved on prior run-
ning to land the second division.
Wynval’s breeding-lines already
have been discussed here; Pan-
hua is a Hua filly from Panover
by Peter Pan from Sequoia by
Heroic. She was bred in South
Australia by M. P. Reid.
Bubille, runner-up to Just
Mark in the Australian Hurdle
at Caulfield, with Gay Ghost
third, was earlier trained at
Randwick by Dan Lewis, but
the gelding’s form wasn’t' of
much consequence and he
was sold to Melbourne for
hurdle racing. Just Mark sur-
prised most punters, though he
had won at the previous Caul-
field meeting. Most thought the
two-miles-five-furlongs would
prove too far, but the Footmark
gelding won by eight lengths.
Within the next few weeks
three-year-olds should make
their presence felt in Sydney
Graduation Stakes. Of about a
dozen three-year-olds figuring
among entrants for next Satur-
day’s Canterbury Ashbury
Graduation Stakes (six furlongs)
some speedy winners at two
years. Lucky Stride, Gay Vista,
Caspar and Mercy, were among
the entries. Lucky Stride and
Gay Vista recently resumed
training at Rosebery after their
early winter spell and both have
quickly come to hand. In the
early part of the season the
general rule is that a four-year-
old with a fair record has a bit
on a three-year-old, but it
doesn’t always turn out that way,
and owners of the speedy three-
year-olds believe their gallopers
will hold' their own against all
ages.
The A.J.C.’s new chairman of
stipendiary stewards, P. J.
Bartley, promoted on the retire-
ment of Jim Donohoe, took over
the reins as chief stipe at Rose-
hill on Saturday, the first meet-
ing of the 1953-54 season. He
has been an A.J.C. steward for
16 years, and before coming to
Sydney was for 13 years with
the Southern Districts Racing
Association, with headquarters at
“ How'm I doin' —I hit his bat every time!"
Cootamundra. A very capable
official; his appointment has
pleased all sections of Sydney
racing.
• • • •
Friendly Feeling, a popular
A.J.C. Metropolitan and Mel-
bourne Cup candidate, is
expected to resume early spring
■racing at Canterbury on Satur-
day. The five-year-old Delville
Wood (imp.) mare is handi-
capped at 7.13 in the Metro-
politan and at 8.0 in the Mel-
bourne Cup. If a staying mare
is to win either of these
important events it could be
Friendly Feeling, but the
Frederick Clissold Handicap
(six-furlongs) at Canterbury
will be too short for her.
One of her best efforts, though
defeated, was to finish third to
champion performer Carioca and
top-class three-year-old Advocate
in the two-mile Sydney Cup.
She might soon rejoin the
winning-list over a middle-
distance.
* * *
The Australian Soccer XI
beat the Chinese team, 5-2
Newcastle, Reg Date scoi
the first minute of play. ;
visitors were weakened by
withdrawal (injuries) of their
centre-half, Ng Kee Cheung,
just before the game, but the
Australian positional play was
sound, and, on the day, they
were the better team. The Chin-
ese turned on some smart she \
passing, but missed chances to
score. Good sportsmen, thy
made no excuses after the gam-
The Wallabies beat Eastern
Province, 16-11, in a fast, open
game in which the backs, partic-
ularly Phipps and captain John
Solomon, cut holes in the de-
fences. The forwards played
well in the loose, and in the
lineouts, but they were badly
beaten in the scrums: which
bears out the opinion of South
African critics that what the
Wallaby pack lacks is not weight,
but thrust. The Eastern Pro-
vince pack was lighter.
For all that, it was a good
win. And the Wallabies’ record,
so far, is quite respectable. They
have won eight, and drawn one,
out of their first thirteen games.
In Sydney Rugby Union
games University beat Parra-
matta, 34-3, Drummoyne beat
Eastwood, 23-15, Manly beat
St. George, 26-3, Gordon beat
Northern Suburbs, 17-6, and
Eastern Suburbs beat Randwick,
19-9.
♦ * *
Collingwood Magpies flew
down to Geelong on Saturday
and upset tradition by beating
the V.F.L. leaders on their own
ground. It was Geelong’s first
defeat this season, and, though
they kept a slight lead to the
last quarter, they played like a
worn-out team at the finish;
’Wood 10.15 to 7.13. This brings
Geelong to face Essendon next
Saturday in what all Melbourne
will regard as the match of the
day.
Essendon had an easy run
against St. Kilda last Saturday
(14.15-9.10), Footscray an easier
one against Hawthorn (11.10-
* 3.10), which leaves the four
pretty much as it was. In other
games Carlton beat Richmond,
15.16-10.19; Melbourne beat
North Melbourne, 9.13-8.16, and
Fitzroy gathered 12.18 to South’s
7.19.
♦ * *
If the first Test was a “moral
victory” for England, the fourth,
lately concluded at Leeds, was
certainly a moral win for Aus-
tralia. Time ran out when the
Australians, after a commend-
able attempt to get the rims
needed, were still 30 short, with
only four out. England, 167 and
275; Australia, 266 and 4-147.
Hassett won the toss, but sent
England in.
• • • •
Rain has interfered with three
of the four Tests —the second
was dry all through. In the
fourth Test play was practically
washed-out on the third day and
limited on the fourth. Mainly
because of the rain there’s
no decision yet in any of ’em.
England was handicapped in
some measure by injury.
Simpson (first innings) and
Compton (second) both had to
break their innings at difficult
periods, and Compton in par-
ticular had lost touch when he
resumed. Bailey, too, with a leg
injury, was under a cloud early
in the doings. But it was still
Australia’s game.
If one player could be said to
have saved England on the final
day it was all-rounder Trevor
Bailey, who batted 4\ hours
(for 38), gaining valuable time
for England, and then, with
negative but in the circumstanaes
effective bowling, closed-up Aus-
tralia’s scoring-rate when it
seemed about to conquer.
Bailey was considered lucky to
be in England’s team for the first
Test, and some critics have con-
tinued to suggest his omission,
but he has earned his place. His
best effort was in the second
Test, when he batted over five
hours for 71, and with Watson
(109) made the fifth-wicket stand
of 163 which enabled England
to draw.
Some tail-end batsmen on both
sides made handy scores. In
Australia’s first innings Ron
Archer (31 n. 0.) and ’keeper
Langley (17) put on 48 for the
last wicket, the second-best part-
nership of the innings. For Eng-
land Laker hit-up a second-
innings 48 —all scored in a stand
with Bailey worth 57. Laker,
incidentally, in the first 1948
Test top-scored with 63 out of
165 —England was 8-74 when he
and Bedser (22) got together and
added 89 for the second-last
wicket.
♦ * *
Ex - amateur lightweight
champion Norm Jones, who
represented Australia at Hel-
sinki’s 1952 Olympic Games,
apparently outpointed Americo
Agostini at Leichhardt, but
Agostini was always aggressive,
and that may have influenced
ref. Art Mawson in declaring the
topnotch 12-rounder a draw.
Agostini, a New Australian hail-
ing from Italy, put Jones on the
canvas for a compulsory “eight”
count in the first minute, but
Jones did likewise to Americo in
the third round and generally
connected, almost as often as
Americo missed, with clean,
properly delivered punches.
Still, the customers were satisfied,
and, this being Leichhardt, that
says plenty for the quantity of
stoush, at least.


Why and How They Celebrate
HIROSHIMA’S
ATOM FESTIVALS
By STEPHEN HELEN
CAST back memories to that
fateful day of August 6,
1945, when a new and
ominous phase in man-
kind’s history commenced. To
b.c. and a.d. we now have to
add a.a., After the Atom.
Here in Australia we cannot
fathom the significance of Atom
Day, and probably no one is
going to remember it anyway,
But the people of Hiroshima,
who witnessed the tremendous
blast, once again are going to
flv^tlL a T il; L C Se”X
nSTonheflSr
“Celebrate” you may think is
not the right word. But that
is pyardv what thpsp pninmatiV
people are doing every year on
August 6 ° *
Nothing is stranger in the
world today, nor reflects more
vividly the peculiar mentality of
the Japanese people, than these
Hiroshima Peace Festivals. Un-
less you saw it with your own
eyes you would not believe the
way the people remember the
complete devastation of their
city, and the deaths of almost
100,000 of their fellow-citizens—
men women ami children.
JL I 'fetivTto 0
eight festivals to date, celebrat-
mg the occasion which Atsuo
Oh, a Nipponese poet, remem-
bers in h.s “Ode to Hiroshima”:
On that fateful day in the
middle of l August,
The very day when the war was
brought to an end
Like chaff crushed and scattered
was my home
On the bank of a distant river,
Helplessly I carried my disease -
stricken self into' exile
For a shelter in the grove of
weeds
So wounded was I in body and
That I thought of Hiroshima
and shed tears of sorrow.
Hiroshima! The land of my
forefathers!
Let there be honey and milk to
be a cradle for the good.
Let us revive completely with
love and peace
Like the waves in the Inland
Sea.
The world turns its eye on you
and extends its hand for
friendship.
Let us hearken and with healthy
mmd and trust
Respond to the world s invita -
tlon -
ca^ e mm‘f teSliVal ' f en . c . ounte l !' ed
Ih, T
S f
w» S 1Q?1' H i roshma ’
way back in 1946. It was a
bright, sunny August afternoon;
and there, suddenly, in that city
where gloom and sorrow were
supposed to reign, I witnessed a
most peculiar sight.
At one of the street-corners
there appeared girls in colored
kimonos, young men dressed in
white shirts, shorts, bare-footed
or in white tennis-shoes and
-socks, with black sashes around
their waists, and white handker-
chiefs fastened around their
heads, carrying miniature
Shinto shrines, time and again
crying out wildly joyous words,
whilst other Japanese were sing-
ing and shouting, seemingly for-
getful of their gloomy surround-
ings. '
“What’s all this about?” I
asked a middle-aged Japanese
dressed in European clothes.
“Peace cerebrations, sir,” he
said with a drawn-out Yankee
accent, but otherwise in good
English.
“Peace celebrations?” I in-
quired increduously.
He did not seem to under-
stand my puzzlement,
“Yes, of course,” he explained,
“The people of Hiroshima cere-
brate the first anniversary of the
atomic age. It started, you
know, when atom-bomb de-
stroyed our beautifur city.”
“A commemorative service I
would understand, but all this
rs ng and da "~ d *“*y7
it
VO uSrf Thev Ince
tlZraueh ”
my raugn • • •
“B ut "*1?” .
For man y reasons > sir- The
main one is that the y are ha PPy
‘° have survived without getting
hur ,S “ “? kes * a J and
gratefd / to the f ods - ,
In the cro^ d now I spotted
*? me f l6ll and wor P5 I ? car rymg
f, at om-scare, which science
a °k ' u tn to !u em ‘
And dov y at>ol f those there,
wtl ° f°,V, Urt ‘ Are
iney, too, graterui/
„
blause PW
Thll „ f Mimchima
, the area where the’ atom-
bomb exD ] oded a SDe cial stand
camt
™ the flickering light of
petroleum-lamps, to the mono-
tonous sound of drums, the
clapping of hands and high-
Oriental singing, the
people of Hiroshima danced the
Bon-Odori, forming a circle,
dancing round and round, greet-
ing the dead whose souls had
been liberated from their suffer-
ings in the Buddhist Hell and
translated to a state of celestial
Tb e Bon-Odori is an age-old
primitive community dance in
honor of the dead celebrated in
Ja P an ever y year between July
15 and August 7, but this Bon-
Odori was arranged specially to
honor those who perished by
the atomic blast. % The idea was
that those who had thus perished,
n °w returned in spirit, were
guided through the ruins to the
places where their humble
dwellings or luxurious homes
°nee stood.
Jl there puzzled, not
a ble to comprehend all this gay
abandon. Just how would we
bave reabted A the enemy had
devastated Sydney a year ago?”
1 asked m ) ,sel£ - .. ,
An .“ ne ff f eh ?| Cre , pt .S Ver
me ’ K n w‘fn s ? ldler ’ t to
a symbol of the destruction that
had come upon them, I was
alone amongst the Japanese
remembering their dead. In-
stinct advised that I should sneak
away, before it is too late, from
this incredible memento mart,
which was more eerie than any-
thing I had witnessed in my life,
because there was singing in-
stead of wailing and grinning
in the place of tears.
But I remained there, fas-
cinated, while they kept on
dancing around the gaily-
decorated stand.
For a time they paid no atten-
tion to me ; then a man who
seemed to be the master-of-
ceremonies, standing at the side
of a huge drum, called out:
“And you, honorable soldier,
please join our humble circle.
Please come and dance with us
the Bon-Odori.”
The dance came to a stand-
still. The booming of the drums
ceased, the flutes became silent,
the song died from the lips of
the mourning merrymakers. In
the night stillness the other
Japanese all turned towards me,
waiting and expecting me to
join their circle.
“Come and dance with us
honorable soldier ” the headman
ca u ed out again,’ and soon ah
present chanted this invitation.
r did nof know what tn Hn
Tben j noti d a r: tt i e bov and
Vf who
had near, watch-
M d”" /
S? i d V ‘ he, J. ha H ds ; mad ?
, a a*? th f I , cllcle ’ a " d
so we danced together, on the
banks of the Ota River, in front
of the Commercial Museum,
which was still a hea P of ghostly-
looking rubble a grotesque-look-
mg skeleton o£ a building,
ft a U seemed like a nightmare,
but I knew I was wide awake...
jn the next 12 months I often
werd to Hiroshima, and watched
the people rebuilding their city,
’phe place was like a beehive,
where creatures worked with
insect-like determination,
In their rest periods, children
« b ° bad “ a P“ d
hours m the open, or in ill-
constructed sheds, even to the
tiny tots ’ hel P ed the grown-ups
to daar away- With
every day Hiroshima approached
lts pre-war normal life.
Th )^ re 1 , had b £ en great plans
to rebuild Hiroshima, which was
“ the Australian area of occu-
Potion. A modern, streamlined
city was the aim ; Allied Mih-
tary Government teams gave
every practical and theoretical
assistance they could ; the new
city was blueprinted with the
belp of Australian architects.
All this was duly filed away, and
the new Southern Honshu metro-
polis grew like Topsy, the same
flimsy city it was before.
And now the Hiroshimaites
a i med to get a world-wide atom-
pubiidty, and as a result of it a
flour i sh i ng tourist trade. This
was cer ta.inly a change from the
nrf . war nf wbpn
flie south of Hooshi Island, with
Kure, Hiroshima and several
other areas, was strictly out of
bounds for foreigners /
w . ~ 1 . ,
onmzo namai, me citys
iaC grand A ans to P bt
fiirosmma on tne world s
l ° brist . ™ as tbe man
who, picked up the spontaneous
J aea sne5 ne , on 'V cld I ri 1
lon( ] r , . . atom head and
I? 011 A* l nto a Hiroshima
l cace bestival -
I was present at the meeting
when the Hiroshima Peace Fes-
Institution came into being,
Hamai san nominated the mem-
bers of the committee, who, in
turn » ip “true democratic
rnanner,” unanimously elected
bim as their chairman,
“Just what is your aim with
tbe Peace Festivals?” I asked
Hamai san after the meeting.
A medium-built man, dressed
in spotless American fashion,
with almost Occidental features
except for his slant-eyes, Hamai
san looked at me for some time,
as if considering whether I was
worth a serious answer, then
he said;
“Our aim is to remind the
world of what happened to
Hiroshima. We want thousands
of people to come here and see
it for themselves just what hap-
pened to our city. We want to
impress on them that the same
thing can happen anywhere. We
want to make a monument of
peace out of the terrible mis-
fortune that became our lot.
Hiroshima in our eyes ceased
to be simply a Japanese city. It
is an international warning, a
historical monument, and we are
determined to keep it that way.”
As the second atom anni-
versary approached, “peace” and
“atom” became synonymous
words in Hiroshima. There
were plans, suggested by Japan’s
senior politician, Ozaki san, to
build a Peace University, but
this remained in blueprint, just
as the plans for a better city
did.
In other respects, however,
preparations for the Peace Festi-
val gradually took shape. Hamai
san, in an open appeal, asked
the musicians and poets of the
Prefecture to compose a “Song
of Peace.” The selection was
made on a competitive basis.
Yamamoto Minoru, a member
of the Hiroshima Educational
Music Association, wrote the
music and Tsuauo Shigezono, a
local teacher, the words to the
prize-winning entry. .
At the atomic site workers
were busy erecting a Com-
memoration Tower, with a
stand, for the second anni-
versary, and though the world,
much to Mayor Hamai’s disap-
pointment, heard little about the
forthcoming Peace Festival, in
Japan, and especially amongst
the occupying Powers, it cer-
tainly gained momentum.
General MacArthur, then the
Occidental shogun of Nippon,
and General Robertson, in
charge of the British Common-
wealth Occupation Forces, sent
their personal representatives for
the unveiling ceremony of the
Commemoration Tower.
The services took place in
the target-area over which the
bomb exploded. In the tower a
Bell of Peace was erected, taken
from a near-by Buddhist terhple,
so far as I could find out. The
grandstand, which looked very
much like one in a sportsground,
was packed with Japanese digni-
taries from all parts of the
country, and representatives
from the Allied Military Gov-
ernment.
At 8.15 a.m., two years after
the atom-bomb exploded, the
Commemoration Tower was un-
veiled, and the mild, melodious
ring of the bell sounded.
Three thousand people, half
of them children and aged, who
were thronging in front of the
grandstand, bowed their heads,
and they seemed to shrink to-
gether. The Allied soldiers
stood to attention.
For three minutes we all stood
there in solemn silence. Then
Yutaka Terada, chairman of the
Hiroshima Municipal Assembly,
stepped to the microphone, made
a deep bow, and after a deep,
hissing breath, which showed his
embarrassment, read from a
piece of paper in Japanese
General MacArthur’s message,
sent to him on his request.
“If men continue to harness
Nature’s forces for destructive
purposes,” Terada read, “they
will exterminate the human race
and destroy the world. This is
the lesson of Hiroshima. God
grant that it is not ignored.”
General Robertson’s message
concluded: “I trust that the de-
sire to renounce war will once
again be promulgated before
the people at your peace cere-
mony.”
Colonel Thomas M. Cloward,
then Commanding-Officer of the
Hiroshima Military Govern-
ment, rose and went to the
microphone. “You, citizens of
Hiroshima,” he said, “can be
proud to have chosen the demo-
cratic way of life and to have
the zeal to be the first to ring
the Bell of Peace. Let us sin-
cerely pray that your gesture
may become an inspiration to
others and similar bells will ring
throughout the world.”
As the speech was translated
to the Japanese I wondered if,
gathered there together at the
Peace Plaza (as some of them, in
typical Oriental euphemism,
called the dusty suburban square,
surrounded .by shabby kiosks
selling flavored ice-cubes and
sweetened water), they realised
the Christian significance of
their own action and the attitude
their victors adopted towards
it....
The festival continued. Attrac-
tive and nervous. Miss Hiroko
Kihara, daughter of a former
Mayor of Hiroshima, in her
colorful kimono, placed a bunch
of flowers at the foot of the
Commemoration Tower. Then,
after messages from leading
Japanese politicians had been
read, Hiroko released a flock of
doves, “to take the message of
peace to the four corners of the
earth.”
Thick-set Tsunei Kusunoe,
Governor of Hiroshima Prefec-
ture, planted a Peace Memorial
Camphor-tree—according to the
Japanese, a symbol of longevity ;
it can thrive for hundreds of
years. Similar trees were sent
to 198 Japanese cities, towns and
villages which had suffered war-
damage. Kusunoe san handed
the plants to the delegates, who
had come from all parts of the
country.
Meanwhile, 60 girls from
various secondary-schools in the
city gathered in front of the
grandstand watching the leader
of the Hiroshima Broadcasting
Corporation’s orchestra, and
glanced nervously at pieces of
paper which contained the
words of the “Song of Peace.”
The conductor lifted his baton,
music filled the air, and the
young girls began to sing the,
peace song.
The music commenced in a
martial tone, with a definite
Wagnerian flavor, then it
softened down, becoming a mix-
ture of Toselli’s “Serenade,”
Beethoven’s “Pastoral Sym-
phony” and some Oriental folk-
songs. In thin, high-pitched
voices the girls sang:
Where the white clouds roll
across the sky
To all corners of heaven,
Far, far, high and wide echoing
into distance
Rings the bell, symbol of peace,
And let us stand with courage
and expect rising prosperity.
Where the blue waves tossed
high and low
To the end of distant seas,
Far, far, high and wide, wishing
our prayers to reach for.
Rings the bell, symbol of peace.
Now that the ordeal has passed
Let us look towards the future.
Where the pure wind blows,
refreshing everyone.
To borders of countries, and
friends in the world.
Let our warm hearts be known
to them.
Thus, the bell rings for peace.
Now we sing for peace, extend-
ing our hands, seeking
friendship.
I thought: “Here is truly a
profound way to condemn wars,
regret the past and strive for a
better future. Here is another,
more human facet of the
Japanese character, one so
solemn and deep,..”
My reverie was interrupted
by a curious popping sound,
then another. I looked up to-
wards the skies and saw streams
of light diminishing in the air,
as the fire-crackers exploded in
multi-colors. Fire-crackers at a
commemoration service mourn-
ing a hundred thousand dead,
and the devastation of a city!
Kiriu san, my interpreter, ex-
plained proudly:
“The fire-crackers are sent up
to make the service more com-
plete.”
“Just how do the fire-crackers
make the service more com-
plete, Kiriu san?” I asked.
“They remind the people of
(i Continued on page 30)


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Master Hoax of
the "Secret War"
In December 1943 the Allies
had an elaborate espionage
network and an underground
organization of some 1,000
saboteurs operating in German-
occupied Holland —or so they
believed.
In August Reader’s Digest
read the fantastic, true story
of how Germans captured key
British agents, made them radio
phony reports to London, even
direct the landing of Allied
men and arms into Nazi hands.
Each month Reader’s Digest
.brings you articles of lasting
interest condensed from the
world’s leading magazines and
current books. Don’t mi§s the
36 stimulating features in
August issue—one shilling and
sixpence at all newsagents and
bookstalls.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
UNREST BEHIND THE CURTAIN
In overseas comment on the
outbreaks of rioting and other
signs of unrest behind the Iron
Curtain —in East Germany,
Czechoslovakia and elsewhere —
the point most emphasised is that
the ones responsible have been
workers.
Hence, comments London
“Economist,” nothing more
damaging to Communist prestige
has happened since the war:
“The fact that German
workers.... are being hailed as
the champions of freedom must
have consequences for the future
that are unpredictable.”
The Berlin correspondent of
the “Economist” ascribed the
signs of unrest thereabouts
primarily to “intolerable living
conditions.” The point had been
reached, he reported, where there
was less food in the Soviet zone
than during the war, even for
the privileged workers, and
prices had been surreptitiously
raised time and again. For
months past, the Socialist Unity
Party (S.E.D.) had been ordering
the factory-managers and trade-
union leaders to conclude new
“norms” ; this meant that unless
the workers produced at least
10 per cent, more their wages
would be cut. Behind this
specific grievance lay a vast
accumulation of resentment
against the broken promises, the
appalling lack of decent hous-
ing and clothing, and the bully-
ing by S.E.D. party functionaries.
But, the “Economist” man
added, it would be wrong to
suggest that it was only material
hardships that had turned the
workers in the Soviet zone
against the Communists:
“They have also been affected
by the system of secret-police
terrorism run by men who often
simply passed from the Gestapo
or Sicherheitsdienst of the Nazis
to the Staats-Sicherheitsdienst of
the S.E.D. Workmen were
ordered to spy on their col-
leagues and knew that their
mates were doing the same to
them. They were given special
training in an allegedly infallible
method of discovering whether
a man who made a politically
unreliable remark did so because
he was merely stupid or because
he was a ‘saboteur.’ Feeling
against this system was vented
on June 17, when prisons were
stormed and prisoners released.”
The pent-up hatred against the
Communist functionaries on that
occasion was such that they tore
their badges off to save their
lives : “One or two were lynched
nevertheless.”
If President Eisenhower may
have been a trifle sweeping, or
premature, in his much-quoted
statement that such revolt was
spreading “like wildfire” among
the satellites, there have at least
been plentiful signs of trouble
for Moscow ever since the Euro-
pean spring started. Even the
East German revolts more
easily observed and reported than
th£ rest —should not (in London
“Economist’s” view) be allowed
to overshadow the happenings in
the neighboring Moscow-
controlled countries.
These have included; In
Czechoslovakia resistance as
staunch—and in Pilsen as bloody
—as that of the Berliners,
successful protests by trade-
unions against the party and
extensive absenteeism. In
Hungary passive resistance by
the peasants, discontent in the
industrial towns, followed by a
drastic reshuffle of the Govern-
ment. In Poland a simmering
resentment about which few
trustworthy details are to be had.
In Rumania and Bulgaria rumors
of similar events in the making.
This picture, the “Economist”
commented, “is in some ways
more significant than that pre-
sented by the Soviet zone of
Germany, for in these countries
well behind the Iron Curtain
there is less organised contact
with the West, escape is more
difficult, resistance looks more
hopeless.”
Economic causes have been
noted by “New York Times” as
immediately responsible for the
risings:
“In Czechoslovakia, in East
Germany, in Rumania, in
Hungary and even in Albania thb
tyrannies that mock the very
language by calling themselves
‘Peoples’ Republics’ have been
faced with the identical
problem; and their answer has
been fundamentally the same.
“The problem is that the
peoples of the ‘Peoples’ Re-
publics,’ having long since been
politically crushed, are being
economically destroyed as well.
They are being pushed ever
farther down in order to satisfy
the needs of Mother Russia ; and
they have reached the breaking-
point. In some of the richest
food-producing areas of Europe
they are close to starvation. By
passive resistance, absenteeism,
indirect sabotage and, in a few
cases, overt violence they have
shown that they will not be
pushed farther.”
The same New York paper’s
chief overseas correspondent,
C. L. Sulzberger, has reported
that, apart ffbm the major
eruptions in East Germany (lead-
ing to the current Moscow
undertakings to send food to that
once - burgeoning granary),
“revolt is stirring' in a minor
degree from the Baltic to the
Aigean”:
“Populations instructed by a
monolithic , propaganda
apparatus that they are living in
a State created in the image of
their own desires are risking their
lives to deny this.”
Though pointing out that all
this ferment within the Soviet
bloc “cannot be taken as indica-
tive of its imminent dissolu-
tion,” the correspondent holds it
to be nevertheless of incalculable
importance to the West
strategically:
“Already worried about the
loyalty of a subservient Polish
Air Force and its escaping pilots,
the Kremlin now finds itself con-
strained partially to demobilise
the East German Army it was
forming. Hundreds of Bereit-
schaften officers have been
reduced in rank or court-
martialled.
Soviet military
machine stays poised with
possible aggressive intent in
Eastern Europe. But how much
of it is needed merely to keep
the lid on a boiling kettle? How
much would be required to safe-
guard communieatibns-lines in
case of war? Is it even possible
for Moscow’s general-staff to
answer these veiy questions?
“The Iron Curtain remains.
Unfortunately, despite the latest
manifestations, it has not yet
‘cracked.’ But behind it simmers
the unrest of a durable, vital
population which can never
reconcile itself to abandoning
one basic ideal—freedom. And
that the Soviet monolith cannot
grant—and continue to exist.”
Agreeing with those findings,
and seeing the outbreaks as
“revelations of internal Soviet
weakness” and as showing
“unmistakably the hate eating
away at the Soviet empire,” the
“New York Times” makes the
editorial comment that. “The
modern dictatorial State is
equipped with appalling devices
for controlling underlying popu-
lations. It can trample humanity
underfoot with the mechanical
efficiency of a heavy tank. It
cannot, however, command
cheerful and efficient service once
its true character is known.
“On the borders of the
Russian Empire Communism’s
true character actually is known,
because those borders cannot be
sealed airtight. We are justified
New York “Herald Tribune”
THE FERMENTING GRAPES OF WRATH
in the belief that discontent in
the and among
the Russian satellites exists, is
extremely bitter and is spread-
ing. One hopeful deduction is
that the Russians will have to
think twice before attempting
aggressive warfare with the aid
of troops coming from popula-
tions which despise and detest
all Communists and all their
doctrines.”
On the East Germans in parti-
cular, London “Daily Telegraph”
makes the acid comment that
“The courage shown by humble
men in face of an overwhelming
physical power cannot be too
highly praised, but its origin is
to be found in the necessary
refusal of a superior civilisation
to submit itself to an inferior.”
A good point made by Balti-
more “Sun” is that holding on
in Berlin now shows its value to
the West :
“It is no accident that the first
big challenge to the Russian kind
of tyranny occurred at the point
where it is possible for Russian
victims to see through the Iron
Curtain and glimpse the life of
the West. Life in East Germany
is even less tolerable than in
other parts .of Russia’s con-
quered empire because life in the
Western portions of Berlin,
despite the inconveniences and
distortions caused by the
division, is a standing example
of what they are denied.”
It will be recalled that when
Eisenhower in his Presidential
campaigning spoke of the “liber-
ating” of Eastern Europe, even
though he added the rider “by
peaceful mearis,” the outbreak
of jitters in countries other than
the U.S, was something to
behold. The “Christian Science
Monitor” -no doubt had that
jitters-outbreak in mind in com-
menting :
“The events of these tense days
do show that the despotic
methods of Communist domina-
tion are vulnerable —that they
have elements of great weakness
especially among peoples who
from their own national tradi-
tions resent subjection to a new
Russian imperialism. To those
who long for liberation and those
eager to help them it is a time to
be watchful, wise and ready. '
“These events strongly suggest
that Russian Communism will
never be able to consolidate into
the Soviet Union its conquests
in Eastern Europe or even make
of them reliable satellites. The
possibility that the peoples of
Poland, Hungary, Rumania, the
Baltic Provinces, and even the
Ukraine in the Soviet Union may
eventually break away from the
tyranny of Moscow is no fanciful
dream.”
A result hailed by London
“Daily Telegraph” is that
“There is now a genuine resist-
ance movement which the
Russians will find it as difficult
to suppress as the Germans did
to suppress resistance in the
Nazi-occupied countries.” And
though (comments- a London
“Observer” writer) scapegoats
may be arrested and shot, and
terror may be redoubled at the
price of intensifying hatred,
nothing of this can prevent
another outbreak of the same
kind as soon as Russia tires of
holding down the 18,000,000
East Germans by sheer military
force constantly exerted.”
Vital Italy
Despite the staggering vote
for Communism, raising doubts
on the country’s value as an
ally, Italy (in London “Econo-
mist’s” view) remains vital to
the West.
For “Just as Rome is the place
to which millions of Europe’s
Catholics look for their spiritual
guidance and leadership, so is
Italy the source of too much in
the European cultural heritage
to be written-off as merely
expendable.”
Hence, “If it were lost to
Communism at this or any
future stage, the West as a whole
would have sustained a political,
military and psychological blow
which might well turn the scales
in the rest of Europe....
“In terms of history, immense
progress has been made in creat-
ing the Atlantic community
since General Marshall made
his famous speech at Harvard
six years ago. If this progress
is to be maintained a country
like Italy must be drawn even
closer into the central web of
nations, and, what is more, it
must be made to feel that it
wants to be drawn in. Otherwise,
as the elections have shown, it
will slide down the slippery slope
towards either Left or Right
extremism. That is something
which the West should know by
now that it cannot afford,”
Austria the Test
The American view on Austria
as the first test-point of Russian
good faith in connection with
peace is typically expressed by
“Milwaukee Journal”:
“Austria is the place to test
the true worth of Russian talk
about peace. This test won’t be
satisfactorily passed by Mos-
cow’s actions in naming an Am-
bassador to Vienna and easing
controls between Red occupied
areas and other areas. The
Western Allies did these things
six years ago.
“In 1945 troops of the four
major Allied Powers of World
War II marched into Austria.
They went in under pledges of
the 1943 Moscow declaration,
reaffirmed at Yalta and Pots-
dam, to liberate Austria from
the Nazis and then get out.
“Now, almost nine years
later, occupation troops (50,000
Russians and 25,000 others) are
still there. This is only because
Russia has refused to sign a
treaty with Austria and has re-
fused to recall its troops. Efforts
of the United States, Britain
and France to conclude a treaty
have been continuous, persistent
and sincere. They have struggled
through 33 sessions of the coun-
cil of Foreign Ministers, 258
meetings of the Austrian treaty
deputies and 85 meetings of the
Austrian treaty commission.
They have failed because of
Soviet quibbling and delaying.
“Why does the Soviet refuse
to settle the Austrian problem?
Because Austria gives them a
point of Communist penetration
in Western Europe. Because
withdrawal from Austria would
remove the excuse for keeping
troops in Hungary and Rumania
to ‘protect their lines of com-
munication.’ Because they want
to continue milking the resources
of their zone of occupation in
Austria.
“The story of Austria, still
vainly seeking liberation from
its liberators, offers a perfect
example of Soviet untrustworthi-
ness. It is a lesson for those
who still put faith in Soviet
pledges.”
Britain in Europe
In the course of a “U.S. News
and World Report” interview,
Paul Gore-Booth, of the British
Information Services, was
asked;
“Isn’t there a danger if
Europe begins to rely indefinitely
on the presence of American
manpower that in the end we
[U.S.] won’t get a proportionate
contribution from the other
Powers? That is the fear in this
country [America]. How are
you going to get that proportion-
ate contribution?”
“Well,” said Gore-Booth, “I
can speak only for Britain and
must say that you’ve got it.
There are nearly five British
divisions right in Germany— *
thing which hasn’t happened in
British history, except in war,


BRAHDAUERS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not expert'-
ment with
imitations.
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
kuv moms safe!
SANDERS
tfpeFILES
r.-v-i
j&S&v' *.*2
statements, etc., filed in the
“Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
any other period
Price* and fur-
ther information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Yardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
100
YEARS
1852
1952
The dictates of elegance
and fashion have always
been reflected in the
beautiful' designs of Lavina
Watches treasured by
generations of discrimin-
WATCHES
jewelled
as *erpiece*
LW2A.iI
since I don’t know when. In-
deed, I doubt if it has ever hap-
pened before at all.”
And, as well as that, there’s a
further tidy bill of costs for
British taxpayers, and London
“Daily Express” takes a poor
view of it:
“Britain is spending more
than £18,000,000 this year to
build defence establishments in
Europe. That is £4,000,000 more
than Britain spent last year on
development and welfare in her
own colonies.
“Does Britain get anything in
return for this enormous out-
lay? Nothing at all. All those
millions of pounds go to bolster
up the defences of the European
countries.
“They go on airfields and
barracks and depots which may
not be used by British forces
at all. Which in the event of
war would —if General Ridg-
way’s report is accurate —swiftly
fall into enemy hands. And in
the event of true peace would
be handed over to the fortunate
countries on whose land they
are built.
“It is intolerable that the de-
fences of Western European
nations should rate more British
money than the needs of the
colonial peoples.”
Apropos of the references to
Britain’s remaining colonies,
London “Financial Times,”
noting that “the British Trea-
sury owes them no less than
£1065 million,” comments:
“For years past the Trea-
sury has been forcing the
colonies to accumulate these
large funds in London under
the polite name of ‘sterling bal-
ances,’ and then using them to
help buttress our own [Britain’s]
domestic social services. In
passing, we may add that,
through our unilateral devalua-
tion, the colonies must have lost
hundreds of millions Of pounds
out of the moneys they had on
deposit in London.
“It is monstrous to ask the
American taxpayer to provide
money for our colonial develop-
ment when we hold £1065 million
of the colonies’ money. Thereby,
also, we are for the first time in
modern British history laying
ourselves open to the charge, as
critics of colonialism put it, of
‘exploiting the natives.’ ”
Satellite China
Largely prevalent in Britain,
the notion that Communist
China is independent of Moscow
gets no support from the Hong
Kong correspondent of “Man-
chester Guardian”:
“Everywhere Soviet assistance
and example are stressed to the
Chinese people. Every impor-
tant advance in technique is
ascribed to Russian assistance,
until one begins to feel that the
Chinese have not a single worth-
while original idea.
“Many Chinese must be
nauseated by the flattery that is
heaped upon Russia and must
view with cynicism China’s
claim to have recovered her
liberty when she has so clearly,
at the orders of her rulers, put
herself under tutelage both to a
foreign country and to a foreign
ideology,”
Berial
The generally-acknowledged
Communist supremacy in the
primitive art of crude abuse has
been notably demonstrated in the
lamentable comedy of “The
Berial of Beria.”
The happy victim was dubbed
,a “bandit,” a “new Tito,” a
“despicable traitor,” “ideo-
logical hireling of foreign
imperialism,” a “bourgeois
renegade,” “vile provocateur,”
“adventurer” and “agent of
foreign Powers,” who, “under
false pretexts, attempted to sow
discord and hostility among the
peoples of the U.S.S.R,”
“Irrefutable facts,” declared
“Pravda,” “prove that Beria lost
the face of a Communist and
changed into a bourgeois rene-
gade and became an agent of
international imperialism. An
adventurist and hireling of
foreign imperialist forces, he
hatched plans to grab the leader-
ship of the party and country
with the aim of actually destroy-
ing the Communist party, and to
change the policy elaborated by
the party by a capitulatory
policy which would have brought
about ultimately the restoration
of capitalism.”
The gentleman would seem to
have been, like Caesar, not above
ambition, and every true
Russified heart, from Siberia to
the Deanery of Canterbury, must
have rejoiced on “Izvestia’s”
assurance that the “exposure of
Beria, the agent of international
imperialism, shows that the
most crafty plan of the
imperialists against our country
has been smashed.”
Not all observers, however,
have taken these masterstrokes
of abuse at face-value. London
“Times,” for instance:
“No one can believe that
Beria, whatever his personal
ambitions were, was deliberately
traitorous or in league with
‘Western capital’ or wished to
set-up capitalism again in the
Soviet Union.
“The world therefore is wit-
nessing, without the means of
assessing precise motives, a
struggle for succession like that
which rent Rome after the
dictatorship of Sulla —‘half-lion,
half-fox’ —or that which tore
apart the leadership of the
French revolution until Napoleon
climbed into power.
“It is a struggle similar in
many ways to that which Stalin
himself won after the death of
Lenin when the attempt to rule
by committee broke down. It
may not be so protracted as that
struggle in the 1920’5, but it is
likely to have greater conse-
quences for the world.... The
struggle in the Kremlin will
affect, for good or ill, the
fortunes of the whole Com-
munist camp from the Elbe to
the Pacific, and may affect the
relations between that camp and
the rest of the world no less.
“For one reason or another
the experiment in collective
leadership, in which all Stalin’s
lieutenants would loyally join,
has foundered. Personal rivalries
and antagonisms have obviously
played their part, and they may
indeed provide almost the sole
explanation of Beria’s downfall.
Malenkov, as Prime Minister,
probably found it intolerable to
leave Beria with the degree of
power which he exercised when
they \yere equals together under
Stalin. Stalin could balance the
two, but when he was gone one
of them had to rise to the top.
“Yet it is tempting to look a
little more closely and wonder
which of them was chiefly
responsible for the ‘loosening’
of the Stalinist rule at home and
abroad. Was it Beria, the subtle,
astute Georgian, rather than the
ponderous Malenkov? Such
inquiry opens up the more
urgent question whether the
downfall of Beria spells a return
to bleak Stalinist orthodoxy
under Malenkoy.”
U.N.O. Anomaly
“If,” comments “Wall-street
Journal,” “the sole function of
the U.N. were to provide a
meeting-place, a council-room
for discussing conflicts and a
forum for expressing viewpoints,
the question of Red China would
not be so momentous. It would
be a matter of deciding whether
the Communist regime was in
fact the Government of China.
“It would not even be incon-
ceivable, in a U.N. performing
this function, that both the Corn-
London "Daily Express”
“Mr. Molotov! There’s an aspect of Marxist theory in
Mr. Malenkov’s room I don’t quite understand. ..."
munists and the Nationalists
could simultaneously be given
the right to participate in the
forum.
“Some of our [America’s]
allies, notably the British, say the
Communists are the effective
Government of China. It is dif-
ficult to deny this argument, since
they do in hard fact control the
Governmental machinery in
China and seem likely to con-
tinue to do so. Regardless of
what ought to be —that is what
is.
“The difficulty is that the
U.N. is trying to perform a
second and contradictory func-
tion. There is an attempt to
make it an instrument of action
—a sort of military alliance
“The Chinese Communists
cannot be admitted if the U.N.
is to try to perform its function
as an instrument of action. So
the United States must oppose
its admission if it is to preserve
the fiction that all the nations of
the U.N. are happily acting to-
gether to protect the world from
aggression
“There is a place now in the
world for the United Nations.
But it cannot be at once a forum
for the world and an instrument
of action against some of its
parts. The record of the United
Nations shows that when it tries
to perform one function it makes
it impossible to perform the
other.”
France's Effort
To the spate of criticism of
France (it breaks out in overseas
comment whenever French
politics put on the periodical
comic-opera turn) London
“Economist,” with its usual
sound sense, adds a word on the
other side:
“All too frequently the
rest of the free world forgets
the extent of the French
sacrifices in Indo-China. The
French regular forces have suf-
fered well over 80,000 casualties
in the Indo-Chinese war, and
the number of French officers
put out of action equals the
total number of graduates from
Saint-Cyr for the past four years.
“France has spent in Indo-
China an average of $1250
million a year, or twice as much
as it has received under Marshall
aid. In proportion to national
income per head and to man-
power, France’s burden in Indo-
China has far exceeded that of
the United States in Korea or
that of the United Kingdom in
Malaya.
“More important, this seem-
ingly endless struggle, which
France’s allies tend to regard as
a matter of course, has been
solidifying Communism in
France itself. Up to the present,
no coalition Government has
succeeded in convincing the
nation that the open wound in
the Far East is either beyond
curing or necessary to the safety
of France. The Communists
have branded it ‘this dirty war,’
and the one solution in which
almost no Frenchman now
believes is a clear-cut military
victory. Everyone knows that,
whereas Indo-China is 7500 miles
from France, Hanoi is’ only 90
miles from the armies of Mao
Tse-tung.”
Dragnet Digest
Politics. —London “Time and
Tide”: “It is one of the tragedies
of France that politics should be
regarded by most of her people
as a somewhat dishonorable
calling.” France ?
Churchill. —“Yorkshire Post”
cameo: “Sir Winston’s impish
air increases with age. He has
the look today of one fresh not
from slaying- a dragon or two
since last Friday, but from hood-
winking them and shooing them
off with ope of his better perora-
tions —a sort of triumph of mind
over monster.”
Ye Mariners, etc. —“It is,”
comments London “Daily Mail,”
“all very well to talk of the
present era as the Air Age. The
fact is that air-power is still only
an extension of sea-power, and
it will remain as such so long
as the bulk of men and materials
have to go by sea. Until air-
craft have virtually replaced
ships as a means of transporting
supplies in bulk and men in
numbers —and they are a long,
long way from doing that —
Britain must keep her Navy
strong.”
Holding Indo-China. —“New
York Times” editorial summing-
up: “That the Chinese Com-
munists have South-East Asia as
an objective has long been
obvious, but it is also obvious
that they would prefer to win
by subversion rather than con-
quest. This is especially true of
Indo-China, where the Chinese
are hated and feared. The task
therefore is to create a strong
bulwark, and it cannot in the
long run be a bulwark held
primarily by French armies. The
French cannot afford it, and’
there is a powerful sentiment in
France which wants to reduce or
even quit the commitments in
Indo-China.”
U.S. Israel Doubts. —Louisville
“Courier-Journal,” welcoming
the Eisenhower Administration’s
“new approach,” which will
mean “paying more attention to
Arab countries and less to
Israel”: “In showering partisan
blessings on one nation regard-
less of its defiance of the United
Nations or its blind unwilling-
ness to move toward rapproche-
ment with its neighbors, we
[United States] have run the risk
of alienating for ever those
200,000,000 people between Casa-
blanca and Karachi, that Mos-
lem world on which the Kremlin
long has cast such covetous
eyes.”
West Would Retreat. —London
“Spectator,” commenting on
“the relaxation of tension
throughout the whole field of
Western defence”: “No soldier,
looking at the position in
Europe from a purely profes-
sional point of view, could alter»
the considered view of General
Ridgway that if the worst hap-
pened, and an attack from the
East did come after all, the
most that Western Europe coun-
tries could hope for would be a
retreat followed later by a libera-
tion campaign, which is precisely
what they want most of all to
avoid.”
Russia’s Hold on China. —
Nehru’s brother-in-law, Raji
Hutheesing, who has studied
Communist China from inside,
reports in a London “Sunday
Times” article: “One day at
Canton a colleague said to our
interpreter, a rigid party man:
‘You think India is still under
the British influence. Well, we
think you are greatly under the
Russian influence.’ Our inter-
preter reacted violently. ‘Yes,
we are dependent on Soviet
Russia for technical aid and ad-
vice. We have not concealed
the fact. But have you ever seen
a Russian order a Chinese
about?’ No, I did not see a
Russian ordering any Chinese
about. But all over China there
was ample evidence of the grow-
ing tentacles of Russian domina-
tion.”


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK. Manager.
Position Wanted
Station clerk. Experienced woman «
turning from abroad wants station
position. Run office. Drive car Con
scientious. Energetic. M.M. care Rooke,
il Carpenter Street, Brighton, Victom.
once she got up the hill, and fly
past with Dave in the stirrups
watching her shadow —when
there was one! She was a little
too fine to throw a shadow
always. And when Dave and
Bess had got back and Joe had
led her round the yard a few
times, Dad would rub the corn-
cob over her again and apply
more burnt leather and fat to her
back.
On the morning preceding the
race Dad decided to send Bess
over three miles to improve her
wind. Dave took her to the
crossing at the creek —supposed
to be three miles from Shingle
Hut, but it might have been four
or it might have been five, and
there was a stony ridge on the
way.
We mounted the fence and
waited. Tommy Wilkie came
along riding a_ plough-horse. He
waited, too.
“Ought to be coming now,”
Dad observed, and Wilkie got
excited. He said he would go
and wait in the gully and race
Dave home. “Race him home! ”
Dad chuckled, as Tommy can-
kered off. “He’ll never see the
way Bess goes.” Then we all
laughed.
Just as someone cried “Here
he is!” Dave turned the corner
into the lane, and Joe fell off the
fence and pulled Dad with him.
Dad damned him and scrambled
up again as fast as he could.
After a while Tommy Wilkie
hove in sight amid a cloud of
dust. Then came Dave, at
scarcely faster than a trot, and
bogging all he knew with a piece
of greenhide plough-rein. Bess
was all out and floundering.
There was about two-hundred
yards yet to cover. Dave kept
at her —thud, thud ! Slower
and slower she came. “Damn
the fellow! ” Dad said. “What’s
he beating her for? Stop it, you
fool!” he shouted. But Dave
sat down on her for the final
effort and applied the hide faster
and faster. Dad crunched his
teeth. Once —twice —three times
changed her stride, then
struck a branch root of a tree
that projected a few inches
above ground, and over she went
—crash ! Dave fell on his head
and lay spread out, motionless.
We picked him up and carried
Jiim inside, and when Mother
saw blood on him she fainted
straight off without waiting to
know if it were his own or not.
Both looked as good as dead,
but Dad, with a bucket of water,
soon brought them round again.
It was scarcely dawn when we
began preparing for a start to
the races. Dave, after spending
fully an hour trying in vain to
pull on Mother’s elastic-sided
boots, decided to ride in his own
heavy bluchers. We went with
Dad in the dray. Mother
wouldn’t go. She said she didn’t
want to see her son get killed,
and warned Dad that if anything
happened the blame would for
ever be on his head.
We arrived at the Overhaul in
good time. Dad took the horse
out of the dray and tied him to
a tree. Dave led Bess about, and
we stood and watched the
shanty-keeper unpacking ginger-
beer. Joe asked Dad for six-
pence to buy some, but Dad
hadn’t any small change. We
remained in front of the booth
through most of the day, and
ran after any corks that popped
out and handed them in again to
the shanty-keeper. He didn’t
offer us anything—not a thing.
“Saddle up for the Overhaul
Handicap!” was at last sung
out, and Dad, saddle on arm,
advanced to where Dave was
walking Bess about. They
saddled up and Dave mounted,
looking as pale as death.
“I don’t like ridin’ in these
boots a bit,” he said with a
quiver in his voice.
“What’s up with ’em?” Dad
asked.
“They’re too big altogether,”
“Well, take ’em off then!”
Davejumped down and pulled
them off, leaving his socks on.
More than a dozen horses
went out, and when the starter
said “Off! ” didn’t they go! Our
eyes at once followed Bess.
Dave was at her right from the
jump—the very opposite to what
Dad had told him. In the first
furlong she put fully twenty
yards of daylight between herself
and the field —she came after the
field. At the back of the course
you could see the whole of
Kyle’s selection and two of Jerry
Keefe’s haystacks between her
and the others. We didn’t follow
her any further.
After the race was won and
they had cheered the winner,
Dad wasn’t to be found any-
where.
Dave sat on the grass quite
exhausted. “Ain’t y’ goin’ to pull
the saddle off?” Joe asked.
“No,” he said. “I ain’t. You
don’t want everyone to see her
back, do you?”
Joe wished he had sixpence.
About an hour afterwards Dad
came staggering along arm-in-
arm with another man, an old
fencing mate of his, so he made
out. ■
“Thur y’ are,” he said, taking
off his hat and striking Bess on
the rump with it, “Besh-bred
mare in the worl’.”
The fencing mate looked at
her, but didn’t say anything. He
couldn’t.
“Eh!” Dad went on. “Say
sh’ ain’t? L’ere —’ever name
is—betcher pound sh’ is.”
Then a jeering and laughing
crowd gathered round, and Dave
wished he hadn’t come to the
races.
“She ain’t well”, said a tall
man to Dad. “Short in her
gallops.” Then a short, bulky
individual without whiskers
shoved his face up into Dad’s
and asked him if Bess was a
mare or a cow. Dad became
excited, and only that old
Anderson came forward and
took him away there would
certainly have been a row.
Anderson put him in the dray
and drove it home to Shingle
Hut.
Dad reckons now that there
is nothing in horseracing, and
declares it a fraud. He says,
further, that an honest man, by
training and racing a horse, is
only helping to feed and fatten
the rogues and vagabonds that
live on the sport.
(To be continued next week)
HIROSHIMA'S ATOM FESTIVALS
(Continued from page 27)
the explosion, the atomic explo-
sion,” he explained.
A grinning Nip came up to
me and with a deep bow handed
a thin piece of paper over to
Kiriu san, who, in turn, gave
it to me. It was an invitation;
“Immediately after the ceremony
you are cordially asked to the
Chamber of Commerce Build-
ing, first floor, where refresh-
ments will be served. Sinzo
Hamai, Pres, Hiroshima Peace
Festival Society.”
At the Chamber of Commerce
—an imposing building, with
walls that withstood the blast,
but completely burnt-out inside
—Mayor Hamai drank a toast
to world peace and Colonel
Cloward to the rebuilding of
Hiroshima...
I spent that day and night in
Hiroshima. I saw schoolgirls
wandering through the streets
selling small pieces of silk on
safety-pins, collecting money
for the orphans of atom-victims.
The city was adorned with
bunting, and richly-decorated
floats sailed the many tributaries
of the Ota River.
People made pilgrimages to
the Mysterious Footsteps, and
to the Shadow on the Wall,
which, in a way, impressed me
more than the atom-blasted
ruins in the Commercial
Museum. The footprints and
the shadow belonged to two
persons who were disintegrated
in the atomic blast, leaving their
imprints engraved in stone, one
on the bridge and one on the
wall. The one on the wall
appeared to me like a victim
crucified and photographed in a
bizarre silhouette.
Here a stone lamp was set
up, and a light burned in
memory of the Unknown Atom
Victim. But on the bridge
children put their feet into the
footsteps of the man and
laughed with embarrassment.
As the day passed teenage
boys carried portable Shinto
shrines, girls wandered the
streets and danced the Bon-
Odori and a specially-arranged
Dance of Peace in front of open-
air cafe-shops, restaurants, the
railway-station and other centres.
As night came the popula-
tion’s enthusiasm increased to a
frenzy. Fireworks colored the
bright summer sky and young
men now and then shouted in
wild excitement:
“Atom! Atom! Atom!
Peace! Peace 1”
For three days the celebrations
went on into the early morning
hours. Most of the people
stayed up and went to work from
their respective Bon-Odori
dances, clandestine geisha-
fiouses and private parties.
The Hiroshima Peace Festival
Society had engaged, also, a
group of geisha-girls to roam
the streets of the city, dancing
and playing their quaint Oriental
music wherever they found an
audience. The geishas, in their
summer kimonos, wearing queer-
shaped straw hats as a protec-
tion against the sun in the day-
time, played their flutes, sami-
sens (the Japanese zither),
cymbals, xylophones and drums,
performed the umbrella-dance
and sang a song called. “Hiro-
shima,” relating the misfortunes
of the city and praising the
population for the work of
reconstruction.
If I ever saw complete good-
will and understanding among
people, it was in Hiroshima
during Atom Week. It may
sound incredible, but during the
festivities no crimes were com-
mitted in the city, and, so far as
it can be ascertained, no one
quarrelled or cheated. Even the
blackmarketeers seemed to cease
their activities. The reason?
Simply an appeal launched by
Mayor Hamai, who asked his
people to “maintain complete
harmony, and ignore the evil.”
“Let there be peace in every
possible way, even if only for
a week,” ran Hamai’s appeal.
It was eerie and incredible to
witness how these people en-
joyed their tremendous tragedy.
As I found out in many other
instances, it would appear that
the Japanese, in some maso-
chistic perversion, thrive on
their misfortunes. At the same
time, there in Hiroshima under-
lying business motives became
all too clear. During the fes-
tivities an Atom Bookshop was
opened, followed by other busi-
ness enterprises using “Atom”
as their main catchword.
Some enterprising citizens,
too, seeing the commercial possi-
bilities of atom-souvenirs, en-
gaged an army of city urchins
to search the rubbish-heaps and
collect things melted and twisted
by the heat of the bomb. Large
sake-bottles reduced to blobs
of glass, household utensils
which had gone through the
melting-pot of crazy transfor-
mation, shrines and idols of
bizarre appearance were all
offered to Allied troops, mainly
American servicemen, at
fabulous prices or in exchange
for food and toilet articles.
And not only the healthy and
those who escaped with minor
injuries celebrated. I went to
the Hiroshima Red Cross Hos-
pital on the second day of the
festivities and found the place
festooned on the outside and its
musty, smelly halls gaily
decorated.
The victims were overwhelmed
with gifts from strangers.
Patients who still had a taste
for sake had pints of it. Some
of the advanced cases died after
gulping a few mouthfuls, but
probably they didn’t mind —
were pleased that their com
tinuous suffering had come to a
merry end.
As I roamed through the hos-
pital I stopped at the bed of
Hideki Saburo, whose disfigured
body lay almost motionless on
a bed. From the red, puffed-up
flesh that was once a face lively
eyes stared at me, the Occidental
soldier, the former enemy.
Saburo had been a shipping
clerk, a member of the middle-
class intelligentsia, an active
sportsman, before the incredible
harm put him to bed for the
rest of his life.
“I brought you some presents,”
I said to Saburo san, through
Kiriu, my interpreter. “Some
soap and chocolates.”
Saburo forced a twisted smile
to his lips and murmured some-
thing which Kiriu interpreted:
“He is very grateful for your
gifts, and is going to give them
to his family. As for him, he
has use for very few items. He
cannot use soap on his skin, and
[or the chocoreto, his tongue lost
its taste, he wouldn’t enjoy it.
But if you could bring him some
used gramophone-records... He
has a machine in the hospital.
He always liked Western music.”
Kiriu, to a question of mine,
explained: “No, he does not
hate you Occidentals for the
bomb, just as he didn’t hate the
gods when earthquakes and
typhoons destroyed his home and
killed his people. It is nothing
but shikata ganai.”
“Shikata ganai”—“lt can’t be
helped”—expresses the stoicism
of this people, who accept fate,,
bad rulers and all types of
calamities with a bow and a
smile.
Another contribution to the
atomic festival was a ballet,
written by Hiroka Okudaira,
director of the Hamuro Ballet
School in Hiroshima. The
ballet took ten minutes only, and
consisted of three parts: “Ex-
plosion,” “The Crowd of the
Living” and “Reconstruction.”
People flocked to the Toho and
Asahi theatres to see this inter-
pretation of the great tragedy,
sandwiched between some Wes-
tern pictures and modern Occi-
dental love films.
The stage-setting for the
ballet was simple enough, con-
sisting of a background depict-
ing the scene of a Hiroshima
street. Prior to the “Explosion,”
to the music of Stravinsky’s
“Festival in Spring” the artists
danced in gay abandon, mimick-
ing scenes of normal city-life in
Japanese fashion. Then, sud-
denly, the sounds of gongs, cym-
bals and drums drowned the
pleasant composition in caco-
phony and the “Explosion”
occurred.
The “atom-bomb” was per-
sonified by slim 31-year-old
Kyoshy Hamuro, founder and
principal of the ballet-school
bearing his name. Wearing black
shorts only, he appeared on the
stage with two sheets of white
silk fastened to his arms. He
waved these about, hitting with
thfm people who tried to escape
in terror, fleeing from the dread-
ful and hitherto unknown
danger, the atomic bomb. This,
the “Explosion.”
In the second scene, which
Okudaira san called “The Crowd
of the Living,” the dancers de-
picted the effects of the bomb.
They wandered about the stage,
writhing in agony, looking into
one another’s faces with painful,
terrible expressions. Some of
them tried to cry out, but no
sounds left their lips. Then they
collapsed in mortal agony.
Gradually the cacophony died
down and the uplifting music
of Stravinsky’s composition
emerged to provide the back-
ground to an era of “Reconstruc-
tion.”
The ballet ended with a vic-
torious pose struck by the five
principal dancers, who sym-
bolised the strength and forti-
tude which helped the people of
Okudaira, were in Hiroshima
when the bomb struck. This in
Hiroshima to recover from the
greatest crisis any city has had
to face in modern history.
All 15 dancers in the.atomic
ballet, including Hamuro and
itself explains their ability to
act so realistically. And it also
spoke for the emotions it arose
in the audience, this grand
guignol which had taken the
form of a ballet.
“Don’t you think that the
show is too short?” I inquired
of small, bespectacled, dark-
bearded Okudaira san.
“No,” he replied. “The ex-
plosion occurred in a flash, and
in no more than ten minutes
hell broke loose in our city.”
Okudaira and Hamuro had
great plans for their atomic
ballet. They intended to per-
form it at schools and cultural
organisations, “at every possible
place, where people have enough
sense to grasp the message of a
yearning for peace.” Later they
travelled to Allied camps and
danced the ballet to British and
American troops. They also
hoped to journey abroad with
their strange message, but, alas,
this came to nothing...
And now, as soon as the
peace festivities were over, a
veritable crime-wave swept over
the city. Apparently the
criminals wanted to catch up
with the opportunities they had
missed. The blackmarket, too,
thrived livelier than ever before.
As the years went by, every
destroyed house was rebuilt on
precisely the same spot and in
the same manner as it was
before. When a great fire swept
over the city, causing almost the
same damage as the bomb did,
save for human lives —more
than 100,000 people perished by
the bomb, but “only” a few
hundred died by the Great Fire
in 1949 —the citizens merely
murmured another “shikata
ganai,” and hastened to repair
the damage for the next Peace
Festival,
The year of 1950 saw Hiro-
shima as it was before the war,
except for the ruins of the Com-
mercial Museum —which they
decided to leave untouched as
a memento and tourist attrac-
tion —and the Peace Tower with
its Bell.
Hiroshima will now again
celebrate (on August 6), but
only the future will tell us
whether these Peace Festivals
mean a change for the better or
simply a tragic farce.


Missing Friend
HARRY LYNB, formerly of 66 Blue’s
Point Road, McMahon’s Point, New
South Wales. Would you please com-
municate with Messrs. Jones & Kennedy,
Solicitors, 213 Nicholson Street, Foots-
cray, Victoria, immediately, and you will
hear something to your advantage.
JONES & KENNEDY, Solicitors, 213
Nicholson Street, Footscray.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLARENCE TRAVES late
of Lockwood Road, Canowindra in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that NANCY BERYL TRAVES
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1526 of 1953 against you on the ground
of your., desertion for three, years and
upwards without just’ cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on
or before the Sixth day of October 1953
and obtain a copy oi/the petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. R. G. L.
BAILLIE, ROSS & Co., Solicitors, 71
William Street, Bathurst, or their City
Agents, MESSRS. JENNINGS & JEN-
NINGS, Solicitors, 129 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—(l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN PATRICK HOURIGAN late of
Blackbutts Road, French’s Forest near
Sydney—TAKE NOTICE that RUBY
BETHEL HOURIGAN has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 818 of 1953 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
9th October 1953 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from
JOSEPH H. McDOUGALL & CO.,
Solicitors, of 4 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Public Notices
I, RACHEL SLADE, of Dutch nationality,
born 'at Amsterdam (Holland), resident
fourteen years in Australia, now residing
at 10 Oastlefleld Street, Bondi, intend
to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948-50.
I, CLAIRE GUTH, Stateless, born in
Budapest, Hungary, resident five years
in Australia, now residing at Fairhaven,
Palmerston Street, Vaucluse, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act,
1948-1950.
IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:~~
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
* FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:~~
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
DRAMA WITH A CHALLENGE!
♦
An outstanding presentation which dramatises the everyday truths,
the doubts, the fears of every thinking man and woman. It is a
challenge to all who hear its story.
2GB - SAW - 4BH - 6IX - 7HO
2HR 2LF 2PK 2MG 3'CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY
8.30 Tuesday evenings; 2WL 9.00 Tuesdays; 2CA
9.00 Fridays; 2LT, 7LA, 7HO 8.30 Fridays.
Tk w Will Bjoadmtmg Surm
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Encyclopedia Britannica
(full set or separate volumes). —5545.
Words of “Albert and the Lion”
or any other of Stanley Holloway’s
monologues. —5546.
Words of verse “The Englishman’s
Farewell to Australia.” —5547.
Information Sought
(1) Which parts, if any, of the
abalone and cunjevoi are edible? (2)
Method of cooking them ?
(1) According to T. C. Roughley,
the abalone, known in Australia more
commonly as “mutton-fish,” is edible,
and in the United States it is regu-
larly marketed and brings a high
price. The portion eaten is the great
muscular foot, which protrudes
beyond the shell. Although of good
flavor it is very tough. The cunjevoi,
as far as is known, is never eaten.
(2) The customary method of treating
abalone is to scrape off the skin, cut
the flesh across the grain into layers
about iin. thick, and bash these
heavily with a mallet or similar
wooden implement. The pieces are
then fried in egg, breadcrumbs and
butter for. about limin. on each side.
Abalone may also be minced and
made into a chowder or soup.
* * * *
How many races did the racehorse
Ajax win? What were his total stake
earnings?
Ajax, a chestnut horse by Heroic
from Medmenham, started in 46
races for 36 wins, seven seconds and
two thirds; He was only unplaced
once in his whole career, this was in
the V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes, in
which he finished eighth. Ajax won
18 races in succession. He was con-
sidered a 40-to-l-on chance to win
his 19th successive race, the Rawson
Stakes, in 1939. There were only
three starters in this race—Ajax (H.
Badger), Spear Chief (M. McCarten)
and Allunga (D. Munro). Much to
the amazement of all Ajax was con-
vincingly beaten by Spear Chief. In
all his racing career Ajax failed to
break a record on any of the major
courses in Australia. He won races
from 5 furlongs to 1\ miles; they
included the Federal Stakes, Fisher
Plate, Chatsworth Plate, Caulfield
Guineas, Newmarket Handicap, C.
M. Lloyd Stakes, Cropper Plate, All
Aged Stakes and Futurity Stakes. In
all he won £40,275 in stakemoney
and today is fifth-highest stake-earner
in Australasia. Few of the horses
he beat —an exception was Hua —
were great horses. Ajax died at the
stud a few years back. Some of the
winners he sired were Magnificent
(dual Derby winner), Chaperone,
Civic Pride, Havoc and Mine Host.
* * * *
(1) Changes in the old-age-pension
rate since 1946, and the Sydney basic
wage at the time? (2) At what age
are widows eligible for the pension ?
(1) Throughout 1946 the old-age
pension was £1 12s. 6d. (it had been
raised on July 5, 1945, from £1 75.);
Sydney basic wage, Nov., 1946, was
£5 Is. On July 3, 1947, the pension
was raised to £1 17s. 6d. (basic wage
£5 10s.); Oct. 21, 1948, £2 2s. 6d.
(£6); Nov. 2, 1950, £2 10s. (£7 65.);
Nov. 1, 1951, £3 (£lO 75.); Nov. 2,
1952, £3 7s. 6d. (£ll 155.). The
basic wage, as from Aug. 1, was
£l2 3s. (2) A widow who has the
care, custody and control of -one or
more children under the age of 16
is entitled to a pension at any age.
A widow who hasn’t any children
under 16 in her charge must be 50
before she is eligible. There are
certain qualifications (e.g., necessitous
circumstances) by which widows
under 50 who do not have the care
of children under 16 become entitled
to the pension, as there are also
certain disqualifications (the receipt
of invalid pensions, the deliberate
deprivation of income or property in
order to qualify for a pension, etc.).
The term “widow” embraces a
deserted wife, a woman whose
marriage had been dissolved and
who had not remarried, etc.
* * * *
How did the term “bachelor"
become associated with university
degrees, as “bachelor of arts” ?
“Bachelor” is of uncertain deriva-
tion, but probably comes from the
Low Latin baccalarius, which was
used to denote a servant, male or
female, who assisted on a farm. In
the 13th century Pope Gregory IX
introduced the word baccalarius to
scholastic life to indicate one who
had undergone the first academic
examination but was not yet a master
or doctor. It was altered by a pun
into baccalaureiis, as if it were con-
nected with bacca lauri, the laurel
berry. From this, through the French,
comes our designation.
# * * *
Is the addition of fresh manure to
the soil dangerous to plants?
There is always a danger of burn-
ing plants when appreciable quantities
of fresh manure are applied to the
soil. This effect is possibly due to
the heat evolved from bacterial
activity and perhaps to the concen-
tration of soluble nitrogenous salts.
To avoid the risk of burning plants
store the manure in some place where
it is protected from the weather and
losses due to leaching. Once the heat
from fermentation has reached its
peak and is falling off, it is then quite
safe to apply large quantities to
plants. On most plants it is fairly
safe to use small quantities of fresh
manure without damaging them.
* * * *
For what is John Hanning Speke
famous ?
He discovered the source of the
Nile. Born in 1827, in Somerset
(England), he served in Indian army
in the Punjab campaign, but was
soon completely wrapped-up in ideas
of African exploration. In 1854 he
went with Sir Richard Burton into
the interior of Somaliland, during
which he was severely wounded in
a skirmish with some Somalis. After
serving in the Crimean war, Speke
accepted an invitation from Burton
in 1856 to explore and verify the
existence of great lakes in east central
Africa. Burton being ill, Speke went
on ahead and decided, without
actually seeing it, that the Nile rose
in Lake Victoria Nyanza. Burton
refused to believe it, so in 1860 Speke
himself led an expedition to prove
it. On July 28, 1862, he stood where
the Nile issued from the lake. When
he returned to England he published
his Journal of the Discovery of the
Source of the Nile, a work full of
geographical, ethnographical and
zoological information, written in a
frank and attractive style. The
accuracy of his observations and the
correctness of his main deductions
have since then been completely justi-
fied. (Burton, however, remained
unconvinced of the truth of Speke’s
claims, and wrote a book denying
them.) On Sept. 15, 1864, Speke
accidentally shot himself dead while
out partridge-shooting at Box, near
Bath (Eng.).
Brief Answers
If reader seeking information on
the Abney-level forwards his name
and address, answer will be posted.
L.F.P.: (1) and (2) Impossible
to give details requested. It is
largely a mere matter of opinion
which standards are higher—-Aus-
tralian or European—and Australian
authorities consider qualifications
here as high as those necessary over-
seas. (3) and (4) Mainly a question
of Government policy. Some New
Australians are permitted to practise
soon after arrival, but sometimes they
have to fulfil a probationary period
to comply with the requirements of
the various State Medical Acts. (5)
As far as we can discover, this is
not the case....M.D.: Unable to
check all the figures given, but they
would be substantially correct. How-
ever, several things have been ignored
by the writer —the greater war-
destruction in Britain itself in World
War 11, its slower recovery from that
destruction, the economic loss to
Britain resulting from the breaking-
away of India, etc D.N.: The
address of J. K. Ewers is 13 Keane-
street, Peppermint Grove (W.A.)
C.G.8.: (1) The English royal house
was known, before World War I, as
the house of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha; it
was also known popularly as the
house of Brunswick and the house
of Hanover. On June 17, 1917, King
George V renounced all the German
titles of his family, and announced
that his house was to be known
henceforth as the house of Windsor.
Saxe-Coburg-Gotha is not a surname;
Queen Victoria’s husband, Albert, the
Prince-consort, was the second son
of the reigning duke of Saxe-Coburg-
Gotha (whose family surname was,
Wettin). (2) Yes... .C.N.: The job
is done with a nitro-cellulose lacquer,
and the various operations demand
special knowledge and appliances
K.E.H.; The best results are obtained
by giving a coating of aluminium
paint, and finishing with one or two
coats of bath enamel, allowing ample
time for drying between each applica-
tion Jay K.: The phrase “Barkis
is willin’ ” is from Dickens’s David
Copperfield; they form the message
by which Barkis, a carrier, repeatedly
proposes marriage to David’s nurse,
Clara Peggotty M.C.: Write De-
partment of Agriculture, Farrer-place,
Sydney C.A.L.: No record of the
speed-test referred to PJ.McL.:
Write secretary, New England New-
State Movement, Armidale (N.S.W.).
T.W.: Goyder was vigorously
attacked, in Parliament and outside,
for the position of the Goyder line
(delineating the boundary of the
wheatgrowing area in South Aus-
tralia). Some of the land outside the
line, particularly in the Paratoo dis-
trict, was cut into farming blocks,
but many who tried to farm there
were ruined. Since about 1900 no
one has disputed the accuracy of
the line or Goyder’s impartiality....
J. 8.: Nothing whatever is known
of the life of Longus, the Roman
author of Daphnis and Chios
F.C.K.: Mincing-lane, in London,
was originally called, according to
John Stow, the chronicler ( circa
1525-1605), Mincheon-lane, from
minchen, a nun. The name was given
because the priory of St. Helen’s, in
Bishopsgate, owned the lane. It is
now the centre of the trade in tea,
sugar and other colonial produce. In
Stow’s day it was occupied by “galley-
men” from Genoa, mainly wine-
merchants H.M.: Write Officer-in-
charge, A.I.F. Base Records Office,
Canberra, A.C.T W.L.E.: Your
surmise is wrong. It was drawn in
The Bulletin office by Ted Scorfield
about 20 years ago K.G.: A lied
is a German song or ballad. The
term (in the plural, Lieder ) has now
acquired in English the significance
of a special type of German song,
as cultivated particularly by Schubert,
Schumann, Brahms, Wolf and Richard
Strauss.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
N.8.C.: Doesn’t make a story;
such well-described crows were
worthy of better caWs T.R.: If
the girl gave in after such sales-talk,
he must have been handsomer than
you make him out... .V.N.T.: Liked
the phrase, “She prickled all over
like an old horsehair mattress,” but
thought it inappropriate to a nine-
teen-year-old girl D. 8,: “Soiled
Linen” not our line A.P.: Your
sad friend who felt he wasn’t wanted
knew himself better than you did....
L.V.: Even for a woman, she talks
too much... .S.R.O’S.: Your hero
inveighs against “Australian crudity”
like the chucker-out at a two-up
school C.L.: Not a bad story,
and not a good one... .F.N.G.: We
read it carefully, as you suggested,
but that didn’t seem to make it any
better 0.G.; You sling slang
about with the easy freedom of a
professor of literature 8.Z.: We
prefer Australian stories, or stories
that have special interest to Aus-
tralians K.D.: Might go else-
where. .. .P.R.: To make her journey
500 miles from inland to throw her-
self over the Gap, just because her
mother had gone over there fifteen
years before, is carrying sentiment a
bit too far.


LYS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
*
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
' as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
I mmmmm wmmiA
<mc» os&&£fyM «*&=#*
g
-"V. ■••:
m
;
<£ ■-*
?n ***• rVI
■:.,V
I v .-■■■:• e». ij*r
wm
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd
Reg'd Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Hand-pieces
“Sundowner”: Shearing your
own sheep? Well, watch the
hand-piece. When setting-up
the comb and cutter have the
butt of the former seated
squarely against the base-plate.
After attaching the cutter to the
fork, place the thumb on the
back cog and throw the cutter
across the comb to see that the
outside teeth of the cutter tra-
verse the outside teeth of the
£omb on both sides.
During the test make sure
that the tension is adequate. For
most purposes and when freshly-
ground a cutter should move
freely but firmly to and fro
across the comb when the back
cog is pressed with the thumb.
A machine with the right
amount of tension will roll
slightly if pulled into gear and
held tightly in the hand.
A centre-post gauge is
essential when making adjust-
ments. Release the lock-nut
holding the centre-post and un-
screw or lower the post a half- or
full-turn. If the fork is still too
high lower the centre-post to the
required position, but not more
than a full-turn to prevent un-
even wear.
If the post and the fulcrum-
cup show signs of too much wear
renew both. The tension-nut
should be renewed when it de-
velops a flat surface on the
crown. Be sure the tension-nut-
screw bushing is tight all the
time. Fork-yokes should be
greased occasionally. Pin-hole
tips should be examined for
wear.
For overhead-gear lubrication
don’t pack grease into the ball-
bearing cups, but keep them
about three-quarter full. Don’t
mix parts of one machine with
another and don’t grind away
parts of one hand-piece to make
them fit another. This sort of
thing ruins machines.
After shearing wash the front
of the hand-piece in very hot
water. When dry dip in light
oil, wrap in strong paper and
store in a dust-free box. Un-
less plant is used for crutch-
ing, give it a run between
shearings to lubricate it.
Farm Maps
“H.N.S.”: C. Walkden-
Brown, of Hawkesbury Agri-
cultural College, has done a
1000-mile judging tour of
N.S.W. North Coast farms en-
tered for the R.A.S. farm-and-
fodder championship. On each
of the farms visited there was a
plan of the place. The value
of a map of paddocks, contours,
fences and water-supply could
not, said Walkden-Brown, be
overestimated. A map should
be a major item of plant and
should be related to careful
recording of production details
and general farm operations.
S. P. Priestley and Sons, Til-
limby, Paterson, won the divi-
sional prize, with W. R. Winkley,
North Dorrigo, second, F. M.
and P. M. Humphries, Mum-
mulgum, third, and N. C.
Hawke, Hawkview, Barrington,
fourth. Walkden-Brown said
each entrant practised rotational
grazing of both day- and night-
paddocks, and three used
electric fencing.
Lea-farming was a success
with improved pastures, and on
many farms were small tractors
with their complement of
hydraulically - operated attach-
ments. Fewer farmers were
using horses, and then mainly
for such operations as seeding,
scuffling, raking and top-
dressing hilly country.
Hybrid-maize was popular be-
cause of its greater yield, and
there was a noticeable increase
in baling current husks and
making meal from crushed corn
on the cob.
There was a need for greater
attention to tree-planting.
Fighting Fires
“Sarina” : Where possible the
best firebreak is the type
popular in western Queensland.
Two parallel tracks are ploughed
about 80yds. apart, and the lane
of grass between them is burned-
off cleanly. This leaves a clear
space roughly 100yds. wide.
When preparing firebreaks
make all possible use of natural
obstacles to fire —such as roads,
gullies and rocky areas. Don’t
have dead trees standing near
the outer edge of your break ;
fell ’em. Left standing, they’ll
surely take fire.
If a blaze is heading at you
from mountainous country try
to keep it in the rough country
as long as possible until help
comes. Grassfires travel fastest
on flat, exposed areas ; in hilly
country they travel fast enough
up the slope, but are greatly
slowed burning down.
• Sometimes downhill - burn-
ing fires can be beaten at night,
but on heavily-tirpbered hills,
thick with fallen leaves and
twigs, the fire is sure to start up
again quickly from smouldering
stuff.
Backfiring is often the only
method of keeping a fire in hilly
country until wide breaks can be
prepared on the plains. Some
sections of a fire are often much
farther down-hill than others;
these should be pinched out by
firing the spurs. The only safe
time to burn-back is at night; a
firebreak should be prepared
first, preferably a short dis-
tance uphill, rather than on the
plain..
A backfire started on level
ground is likely to get out of
hand and spread fiercely in both
directions. ’When your firebreak
is across a slope you should be
able to extinguish the fire
creeping slowly down-hill.
When back-firing never light
too long a strip at once, even at
night. Light a the fire
burn away from you a few feet,
then light some more. This pro-
tects you against a sudden wind-
change. And wherever your fire-
break rounds a corner make it a
few feet wider than elsewhere.
Weeds and Pastures
“Plane Creek”: Many weeds
are ruinous to pastures. Some
of them produce “off-flavors”
in cream, others are highly
poisonous to stock, others
smother the good herbage.
Bqpt safeguard against weeds
is good, thriving grass for the
longest possible period every
year. Plant weed-checking
grasses. Those which combine
surface-runners with upright
stems are splendid. It follows
that decent country is required
when a pasture is intended to
grow and produce satisfactorily
for many years. Many per-
manent pastures fail to give long
service because of neglect.
To overstock is to court
failure, particularly when the
stand is ydung. All grasses have
to consolidate, and some take
longer than others. Naturally,
soil, climatic conditions, etc.,
need consideration. You can
set some grasses at any time
with success, but others must be
planted in season. The speed of
recovery after grazing is the
best gauge as to the extent of
pasture-consolidation. Find out
how much chewing the pasture
will stand without damage. Too-
heavy or too-early grazing keeps
the pasture in a lowly condi-
tion, which often leads to weed-
growth.
It doesn’t pay to understock a
stand without practising fodder-
conservation. Numerous grasses
run riot in good seasons and
produce a mass of feed which the
grazing stock cannot cope with.
Make hay or silage if possible,
but if burning-off burn warily.
have a nasty habit of
taking possession when the
grasses are dormant after a dry,
cold winter. Thus, mint-weed
got a firm grip on Darling
Downs (Q.) grazing country
after a severe winter, because it
was able to come away when
the usually hardy, all-smother-
ing Urochloa grass was held
back by lack of moisture.
F ©rage-poisoning
“H.C.”: Sleepy-staggers and
botulism are both caused by
forage-poisoning. Either sets in
when foodstuffs become toxic
through invasion of the bacillus
botulinus.
Horses fed on prepared fod-
ders are the worst sufferers, but
cattle, sheep and pigs can also
be affected. Fowls given mouldy
grain or preserved vegetables
may be victims. This is the most
dangerous of all forms of poison,
and there is no known cure.
There are two types; acute
and chronic. Both are non-
infectious and generally show
up following rains or humid
weather. When several horses in
one stable are attacked the cause
can be traced back to the toxic
ration.
Fodder containing high per-
centages of the poison is
responsible for the acute form.
First symptoms are peculiar gait
and difficulty in eating, followed
by paralysis of the tongue or
throat. Later, the limbs become
uncontrollable, and when the
horse gets down it cannot rise.
Though it may take one to four
days to die, it ,is usually
conscious to the end.’
Horses suffering from the
chronic form are dull, inclined
to stand aimlessly in one spot
and find it hard to lift the feet
clear of the ground ; saliva and
navel-discharges set in. They
can swallow small quantities of
moist food but not dry rations.
Food may drop from the sides
of the mouth as they try to
masticate. In these cases the
animal wastes away, dying at
the end of some weeks; only a
few recover.
The microbe causing the
poisoning lives in both soil and
water. Grain, hay and chaff
exposed to rain and left to be-
come mouldy are its main
btpeding-grounds. Tussocks of
rank grass near creeks or heaps
of decomposing matter con-
taining grain also harbor it.
Since it is soluble in water, the
poison may be washed from one
part of the haystack or silage-
pit to another. Poisoned water
from an infected haystack or
pit can also be fatal. Most
dangerous of all is mouldy
silage.
To forestall, shelter haystacks
or fodder from dampness. When
silage and foodstuffs are sus-
pected burn them and a wide
area of the ground surrounding
them.
Artichokes
“Myrr”: When planting arti-
chokes select tubers lin. to l|in.
in diameter and plant them in
July or early August, 4in. deep
in heavy soils and 6in. in sandy
loams.
Larger tubers are cut to show
no more than two eyes—those
with multi-buds put on over-
heavy top-growth which dwarfs
the crop both in quantity and
size of tuber.
The plant does best in a well-
drained soil, deeply-dug and
laced with rotted compost or
stable-manure. It grows up to
10ft. high, providing excellent
shelter for summer crops. Nip
out flower-buds as they appear,
otherwise texture and quality of
the tuber will be impaired.
When growth ceases in autumn
remove all tubers from the
ground and replant selected sets
in July-August in fresh ground.
For the table the skin is re-
moved with a strong brush, after
which the vegetable is immersed
in cold water with a little vine-
gar added. This “fixes” the
white color and the flavor.
Cape York Pastures
“Agric”: Following a visit to
Cape York Peninsula of depart-
mental agrostologists 11 test
plots are being sown with various
grasses and legumes.
Agrostologist S. Marriott
reported that the value of
Townsville - lucerne was now
generally accepted in the north
and it was well established and
spreading. The Starke Pastoral
Co. had achieved notable success
with the legume stylosthanses
(“stylo”) on the better-drained
soils in the 60in.-70in. rainfall
country at Mt. Webb. Another
tropical legume, puero, was
showing promise in that area.
A small plot of stylo was doing
well on Lakefield station, in the
40in.-rainfall belt, north of
Laura, while at Butcher’s Hill
C. Wallace was getting promis-
ing results with buffel-grass,
which was showing the same
palatability, drought-resistance
and pioneering characteristics as
in north-western Queensland.
Strains of buffel-grass are to be
tested soon over a wide area of
the peninsula.
Grazing Oats
“Hortus”: When to start
grazing oats? Certainly not
sooner than two months after
germination. Wait until the
main root-system develops. Most
satisfactory from this point of
view are the slower-maturing
varieties.
It’s best to stock heavily for
short periods. Use strip-pastur-
ing methods with electric-fence


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
w
HYGEIA DISSOLVEHATOR
Givu you the advantages of sewerage na
natter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
ŵ
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write tor free Illustrated pamphlet.
■DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, , Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Rundle
St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; R. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
PRICE
£75
Weight
361bs.
ẁ
Sturdy battery charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers’
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £13,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
—
BRAND OF PHENOTHIAZINE
THE MOST EFFICIENT
WORM DRENCH
COMPARE FOR YOURSELF THE FIGURES SHOWN IN THE FOLLOWING
TABLE INDICATING THE PERCENTAGE OF WORMS REMOVED FROM SHEEP
One of a series of advertisements designed to convey
as a simple story the results of many years of research.
Acknowledgement is made to many research workers
whose results have been published in the Australian
Veterinary Journal and elsewhere.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRAUA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
iCI
PHE. 12X.
if possible. When early spring
comes take off stock if you are
going in for grain or hay.
Generally speaking, in early
districts it’s best to cease graz-
ing during August, but in other
places October. Best suited for
grazing are mid-season to late-
maturing types such as Algerian,
Fulghum and Belar. Dale,
Orient, Burke and Acacia can
be grown if a grazing-grain com-
bination is desired.
Lemons Outed
“Deecee”; Citrus-growers at
Gayndah, in the Burnett (Q.)
district, have fought a losing
battle with a product of the test-
tube. They are starting to root
out their lemon-trees, because
most cordial-factories now use
synthetic lemon-essence, which
is cheaper than the pure fruit-
juice. This has closed a major
market to the growers. In addi-
tion, price for the fruit has
slumped badly since Christmas.
One large orchard has already
been cleared of lemon-trees, and
a bulldozer will move on to two
other properties within the next
few weeks. On these three
orchards alone more than 600
trees will be destroyed. Their
annual production has never
been less than 10,000 cases. The
lemon-trees will be replaced bv
oranges and mandarins.
Black Polls in Hard Times
v ‘ D f oddie Boy”: In one of the
worst winters on record Aber-
deen-Angus cattle at Bald Blair,
™ e N-S.W. New England
Tablelands, have shown- great
Hardiness. Manager H F White
says New England-bred
develop a constitution which
could not be produced in stock
raised in warmer districts of the
State.
The cold winter has played
havoc with pastures, but White’s
herd is still in full-coated con-
dition, particularly the stud
matrons and the older females.
The stock were taking the hard-
ships as well as cattle grazed in
rougher but warmer country.
The Bald Blair herd has been
grazed on four-year-old Phalaris
tuberosa and white clover, show-
ing the value of pasture-improve-
ment in difficult periods. Bald
Blair is wintering on pastures
1160 cattle, 460 of them Aber-
deen-Angus, and 4600 sheep.
Cut Potato Setts
“Spudato”: Because of the
large size of the tubers produced
by the newer varieties of potatoes
—Sebago, Sequoia, Monak, etc.
—it is hard to get setts small
enough for planting without
cutting.
A rapid healing of the cut
surface is the most important
point in getting good results
from cut setts. Hydrated-lime
or 1 per cent, tetroc-solution
gives a quick natural healing be-
fore drying-out or decay organ-
isms start their work.
Chlorophyll
“B.O.”: Because of its high
chlorophyll content lucerne has
been the main source of supply
in U.S.A. for the large demand
created by publicity for smell-
killing dentifrices, etc.
Now it turns out that rice-
leaves have the highest chloro-
phyll content of any crop known,
and rice-growing for chlorophyll
is becoming a specialised in-
dustry in the U.S.A. For this
purpose the crop is cut when it
is about 16in. high.
The rice-leaves yield an addi-
tional medicinal product in
carotene, a source of vitamin A.
Less Insecticide
“I, Somer”: Though their use
is now practically universal,
less insecticide and fertiliser per
acre are being applied by farmers
than ever before, according to
Dr. Ivan Phipps, of 1.C.A.N.Z.,
who says it’s a case of “less doing
more and making a better job
of it.” He cites the minor ele-
ments, molybdenum, copper,
zinc, manganese and cobalt as
examples—2oz. to 4oz. of
molybdenum mixed with lewt.
of super, will correct a molyb-
denum deficiency in an acre of
ground.
Another example is alpha
naphthyl acetic acid. One
ounce, mixed with 600 gal. of
water, makes a spray to prevent
fruit-drop over H acres of
orchard. Only 11b. of B.H.C.
(gammexane) containing 13 p.c.
of gamma isomer, mixed with
4gal. of fuel oil, will kill 1.5
million locusts. Aerial spraying
and dusting of insecticides, fet-
tilisers and weed-killers over
otherwise inaccessible areas have
meant a tremendous saving in
time and labor.
Care of Young Pigs
“Billjim”; Litters farrowed in
May or June should now be
ready for weaning. Take more
than ordinary care. After the
sow is removed leave the litter
in its farrowing-quarters for
two to four weeks. Keep the pigs
warm anxi reduce the area of
sleeping-floor by fixing a 4in. by
2in. board on edge across it,
leaving just sufficient space for
the pigs to sleep comfortably.
This will keep the sleeping-
quarters clean and the pigs
warm.
Keep the shutters down ex-
cept on bright days. Feed regu-
larly at least three times a day
and make certain the pigs get
of meatmeal a day. If
colostrum is used mix with the
whole quantity of milk avail-
able to avoid a digestive upset.
In good weather the pigs may be
let out on pasture.
Hints for the Farm
“Bill C.”: Sudan- and John-
son-grasses are very much alike,
but whereas the former is the
least toxic of the sorghums when
immature, the latter is the worst
(B. 8/7/’53). Sudan-grass, how-
ever, is a surface-rooter, but
Johnson-grass roots deeply and
is more drought-resistant.
“Molecule”: Carrot-tops con-
tain protein and relatively large
amounts of the important cal-
cium and chlorine. They are
eaten with relish by sheep, 68
p.c. of the protein and 85 p.c.
of the carbohydrates being
digested, and they are not more
fibrous than young leafy grass.
They compare favorably with
three feeds used extensively in
the U.K., viz., marrow-stem
kale, sugar-beet tops and swedes.
“Nitro”: Rust of beans has
become ~ more widespread.
Although nitrogenous fertilisers
are not generally used for beans
a new fertiliser called urea, con-
taining about 46 p.c. nitrogen,
keeps the rusted plants alive and
growing, while unsprayed plants
lose their leaves entirely. ’ The
effect of the urea is protective
rather than curative.
“Plane Creek”: Don’t neglect
borers in orange-trees. There
are two kinds ; one goes for the
trunk and the main limbs, the
other, more common, prefers
small branches. Infestation is
characterised by wilting and
gradual death of the affected
branch. Remove infested
boughs by sawing well back
towards the trunk. If the branch
is tunnelled where the saw went
through shorten the branch still
further to get the borers. Don’t
remove big limbs, but push a
blob of cottonwool saturated
with carbon-bisulphide into one
of the holes and seal that and
all other openings with soft
soap. The fumes will finish the
blighters.
“Sundowner”: Twice or thrice
at weekly intervals run a 40 per
cent. solution of nicotine-
sulphate along the perches just
before the chooks go to roost.
It’ll get rid of lice. Pick a calm
evening to do it.
“W. Court”; Strong-flavored
tooth-breaking carrots are grown
under dry conditions. They
must have moisture and good,
deep soil. Cultivate to 15in. and
stir in plenty of old fowl-
manure and a bit of artificial
fertiliser containing phosphoric-
"acid and potash to ensure large,
firm roots. Fresh horse-manure
causes root-distortion. Inter-
row cultivation uproots weeds
and prevents soil-packing. Thick
seeding is necessary, for carrots
germinate poorly. Careful thin-
ning is important.
“Hux”: Watch the dog that
moults too freely or scratches
too much. Parasitic diseases
may bp setting in. Brush out any
scurf. If there are reddish
patches mix one part of wool-
fat with two parts of coconut-
oil and work into the skin with
the tips of the fingers. When
the skin gets raw don’t use
strong soaps or lotions contain-
ing potash and soda. Either
can destroy the oily nutriment
of the hair. Worms may be the
trouble. Ask a vet. Blood im-
purities, such as eczema, mostly
show up where the ' skin’s
thinnest—on the belly or under
the thighs or armpits.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Sydney should get a good fall of rain in August, with
following lighter showers. Regions from Sydney northwards
should enjoy excellent seasonal conditions from late in
August, and regions south of Sydney should have increasing
rainfall, perhaps similar to that which caused floods in
1917. Those who have 1917 weather records may watch
this development for comparative purposes.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Gambling
Australians may not be more in-
veterate gamblers than other people (B.
8/7/’53), neither are they such small
potatoes as “Mark O’Polo” claims. We
have no football pools, but England has
no State-sponsored lotteries. The Queens-
land one alone turns over about £lOO,OOO
a week, and it is not the biggest.
Lotteries are only one of many forms
of gambling competing for our support.
That is not small change even by com-
parison with America, if you allow for
their 150 million people and higher
average incomes. Our servicemen on 6s.
a day (less if married) couldn’t keep up
with the Americans on about two-and-
a-half dollars a day, but I knew one
crown-and-anchor operator who, after
two-and-a-half weeks on a troopship,
where his board was one of many, sent
home £6OO.
Of course gambling is a universal
human failing. But that doesn’t make
the problem here any simpler. There
appear to be two main forms, though one
merges into the other and no hard-and-
fast line can be drawn between them.
The first is the sporting bet, typified
by the man who backs himself or his
nominee to do something better than
or to be more correct than
another on a disputed point. The money
wagered is a minor consideration, merely
an earnest that the bettor believes his
own claim. I can’t see that such a bet
is wrong, but it can be carried beyond
all reason, and it can lead to the other
type.
This is gambling through sheer greed,
a desire for easy money, and the bettor’s
skill or judgment hardly enters into the
picture. Nobody has any reason to
believe that the lottery-ticket he buys has
any better chance than any other ; the
average punter has little more real reason
to believe that he can pick the winner of
a race. He bets in the fatuous hope
that he will be “lucky,” and that his luck
will bring him wealth.
On the borderline are such games as
poker, where skill counts for a great
deal. In these, it is the attitude of the
player which decides. If he plays regularly
with a few friends, it is probably the
game that interests him; the stakes are
just to make it more intense. If he plays
with strangers he is either a sucker
deluding himself that he can make money
or a professional who knows he can.
The latter, -of course, is not gambling;
he is running a business.
Where does all this lead? It is most
pnlikely that any such universal trait as
“Pull your head in!”
the gambling instinct can ever be eradi-
cated. Probably we shouldn’t try, any-
way; it can be quite harmless, and even
admirable, as in the case of the men who
recently backed their own skill and en-
durance against Everest.
It is the desire for something-for-
nothing which corrupts gambling and
everything else it touches, and which
should be the target of the reformers,
It is not universal—we all know people
who despise it—and it can be fought by
raising mental and moral standards. But
reformers tend to see everything in
black-and-white, and they love easy
catchcries. I suppose, till the end of our
days, we will be assailed by exhortations
to “stop gambling,” along with “ban
alcohol,” “ban the atom-bomb,” and all
the \)ther silly and superficial slogans of
their kind. — Magnoon (Q.).
More Duplication
For many years, the N.S.W, Depart-
ment of Agriculture has, despite the
handicap of not having an experimental
farm in the region, been breeding rust-
resistant varieties of wheat suitable for
the north-western slopes and plains. This
work has been supplemented by Sydney
University, which has established a small
wheat-breeding station at Curlewis in this
region.
Varieties such as Eureka, Yalta,
Charter and Gabo have been highly suc-
cessful until attacked by new races of
stem-rust which have arisen. Celebration
and Festival, produced by the N.S.W.
Department, still, however, remain
resistant.
From the standpoint of baking-quality,
all these varieties are very satisfactory,
unless farmers grow them on soils
run-down in fertility from soil-erosion
or intensive cropping.
But a branch of the Farmers and
Settlers’ Association in this region now
wants the C.5.1.R.0. to undertake re-
search to improve wheat-quality.
The baking-quality of wheat can only
be permanently improved either by breed-
ing Varieties of better inherent quality,
or by increasing the fertility of the soil,
especially in nitrogen.
Apart from the ingratitude involved,
C.5.1.R.0. is apparently thought to pos-
sess some wizardry which would enable
it “to undertake such research better than
the more experienced organisation of the
State Department of Agriculture in a
field where results of very practical appli-
cation are required.
Moreover, such an approach to
C.5.1.R.0. is one of the many ways in
which duplication of Commonwealth and
State activities have arisen, eventually at
increased cost to the taxpayer. — Grano
(N.S.W.).
Stratford Shakspeare
That Melbourne review by “F.S.” of
the Stratford “Othello” (B. 15/7/’53) was
very disappointing.
To put forward the theory that
Othello’s actions were not feasible merely
because it is impossible to believe that
Nelson, Napoleon, Hitler or even Wel-
lington would have behaved in that way
is ridiculous. Shakspeare knew enough
about the writing of drama to realise that,
had the tragic fate of Othello and Des-
demona not been comparable in scope
to the machinations of lago, the play
would have no balance whatever, and,
had the balance been ignored, the superb
climax would be missing and in its place
we would have a play petering out to a
tame anticlimax,
Because lago succeeds in destroying
Othello, the tragedy is an immortal
classic of the theatre. Had Shakspeare
made lago foil in his intention, the play
would have been forgotten. “F.S.”
ignores completely the cause and effect
of lago, without whom there can be no
“Othello” at all. I hope “F.S.” cannot
view Nahum Tate’s butchery of “King
Lear” with equanimity. If he cannot
hold the view that “Lear” should have
a happy ending, with Lear regaining his
sanity, then he must accept “Othello” as
it is, a tragedy of the destruction of a
noble general and his wife, and nothing
else. Let him accept it as it was written,
but let him and all critics accept it with
the care that it merits. The Stratford
company have taken infinite pains with
the presentation, and it is only fair that
it be accepted with a measure of pains.
After dismissing the play because he
cannot comprehend Othello’s actions by
comparing him “as a sort of Rommel
to four white generals (another serious
mistake) “F.S,” goes on to say: “And
when Othello expresses his commonplace
reactions in Shakspeare’s lovely imagery,
it sounds more incongruous than ever.”
Commonplace? To whom is he applying
the yardstick to say that Othello’s reac-
tions are commonplace? In one breath
he names four people who would not
behave as Othello did, thus making the
behavior of the man improbable, then
he baldly states that the reactions are
commonplace! That, lam afraid, is the
tone of the whole review— inconsistency
stands cheek by jowl with weird inter-
pretations of Shakspeare’s text. —K. J. W.
(Vic.).
Those Jap Luggers
“Wandana” (B. 3/6/’53) is all at sea
regarding those patrol boats’ capturing
trespassing Japanese pearlers. I never
heard of any captain getting it in the
neck for not turning a blind eye on the
Jap poachers, although I did hear,
one patrol-captain get a severe
verbal castigation for not arresting
a local pearling-lugger which was
poaching in preserved waters.
As for the Commonwealth pay-
ing out cash in “compensation,”
that was not done to soothe the
feelings of the Japanese. As one
who attended the court for the
whole session during which the
Japanese Government sued the
Commonwealth Government for
wrongful arrest, I know that the
presiding judge could have come
to no other decision than he did.
The evidence revealed bungling
and stupidity beyond measure.
In one case, a lugger was arrested one
day for being within the prohibited area
and removed some miles away. No
soundings were taken, nor any measure-
ments made; but the next day, at
approximately the same hour, the patrol-
vessei moved back to the area of arrest,
and there took soundings and measure-
ment to decide whether the arrested
vessel had been within the prohibited
area or not.
No one who heard all the evidence
given in that compensation case could
have disagreed with the judge’s findings.
As an example of how not to arrest tres-
passing pearling-luggers our patrols were
out on their own. The Japs were tres-
passing all right—there was no question
about that —but all that patrols did
was make themselves the laughing-
stock of Australia. — Wingella (NT.).
The Search far Oil
Has “P. Mobile,” who castigates the
Bureau of Mineral Resources for costly,
profitless and abortive attempts to find
oil (B. 15/7/’53), forgotten that private
companies, which inferentially have all
the know-how, are in exactly the same
boat?
Until oil is found, every effort to find
it will be costly and abortive, but the
bureau’s efforts appeal to the openminded
and informed observer as a good deal
more productive, compared with the small
cost involved, than the results from any
other source so far.
What about the millions spent by Shell
in sinking dry holes in Queensland?
Already over £15,000,000 has been spent
by private companies in Papua-New
Guinea without finding oil. Nearly 200
bores were sunk in Canada before oil was
found there, and most of these were very
costly and completely abortive, too.
It is pertinent to recall, also, that
British interests turned down Bahrein
Island as an oil prospect before the
Americans took over and struck it rich.
I stick to my claim about the bureau’s
work on the thickness of marine strata
in the North-west Basin. Previously
estimated at only 7000 ft., the true thick-
ness was established by the bureau to be
20,000 ft. Also, the rocks present were
shown to be older than any previously
reported in the region.
It was these results which moved
Ampol, the permit-holders for the area,
“ Ta kin’ shape? These are only the
foundations ."
to bring several geologists from the
United States and led ultimately to
American Caltex joining in the formation
of W.A. Petroleum, now about to sink a
bore.
As to the bureau’s “abortive attempts
to develop unsuitable areas,” the bureau
does not set out to develop any areas.
That is not its function. Its task is to
survey all the possible areas, do the
geological mapping and make the results
known. In the nature of things, the
bureau surveys areas that prove to be
unlikely oil prospects, but as part of the
general geological mapping of Australia
the effort is far from wasted.
Up around the old town of Beadon
(now called Onslow) they’ll tell you that
this essential mapping-service is proving
of first-rank importance in the search for
oil.— Beadonite (A.C.T.).
Road-safety
Education of motorists in road-manners
is important in preventing accidents (B.
20/5/’53) and should be continued. The
Army has recently launched its own road-
safety campaign.
It’s not only old cars which are involved
in accidents. Late models in the hands
of the thoughtless and irresponsible can
be a menace to other road-users. Educa-
tion could help here.
Every factor which can lead to an
accident should be investigated, and sug-
gested remedies carried out. For instance,
more-easily-distinguishable speed - limit
signs are needed in some places around
Brisbane.
But “Rag” is correct in blaming bad
roads for a lot of accidents —Australia s
roads, unfortunately, were not designed
to carry with safety modem high-speed
vehicles.
A lot of main roads here in Queensland
are being chopped to pieces and are badly
in need of repair. And it is the same with
other States. At a recent local-govern-
ment meeting in S.A. several speakers
said that S.A.’s country roads were “in
their worst condition in history.”
Shortage of money is largely respon-
sible for this state of affairs—too much
money has been wasted in the past on
needless public-works, while the upkeep
and development of roads (a national
necessity) has been neglected.— Keima
(Q.).


The Police
“Helping the ‘Mug Copper’ ” (B.
22/7/’53) states succinctly the case for
policemen, too often left without assist-
ance when arresting violent persons, and
very properly condemns a hostile or
apathetic attitude by sections of the
public. At the same time I doubt
whether these things can be linked as
directly as suggested with political associ-
ations.
It is naive to deplore a situation and
not explore the v reasons for it. One
reason, I believe, is that the police force
in, for instance, N. S. Wales does not
command respect from the average citizen.
I know a number of admirable
policemen, but there have been grave
suggestions of corruption in the force,
and it would be difficult to convince the
average person that they were not justi-
fied, in part, at least.
One has only to use a little observa-
tion in the average country town-—to
take a minor instance—to see that a good
many coppers get on very happily with
the licensing and gaming laws, and that
publicans and s.-p. bookies do a thriving
business. It is probably a case of bad
laws breeding a contempt for laws. But
these things, which most people take for
granted, breed corruption on a grander
scale.
In Sydney, there have been ugly things
said about the Vice Squad. I personally
have seen policemen hanging round
dubious hotels in Sydney on very friendly
terms with the proprietors. They were
not on duty. I have also seen police-
men, in the same sort of places, acting
in a manner which was a disgrace to
their own, or any other, uniform.
It may be objected that the behavior
of a few is no indication of the character
of many decent policemen. True. In
the same way, the behavior of a few
civilian larrikins is no indication of the
sentiments of many decent citizens. At
the same time, there is a difference be-
tween the attitude of the average Sydney-
sider to the police and the attitude of
the average Londoner to the London
bobby. The fault does not lie entirely
with the citizen.
A citizen is required to come to the
assistance of a policeman if called upon
to do so, or if the policeman obviously
needs assistance. There is, however, a
moral qualification, implied if not stated,
which the Army, of necessity, puts into
plain words—a subordinate is only re-
quired to obey a lawful command by a
superior. Similarly, a citizen, before he
assists a policeman in, for instance, an
arrest, needs to be satisfied that the
arrest is lawful. It sounds a fine point,
but it underlines a profound moral
difference between a democratic State,
ruled by law, and a State in which force
is law. In some cases, in a vague and
troubled way, it is this hesitation which
prevents interference.
In other cases it is simple cowardice.
And cowardice can deter us from illegal,
as well as legal, acts. A really con-
scientious animal-lover, for instance, who
carried his convictions to their logical
conclusion, could have a field day, any
day, in Australia. He could knock over
a few greyhound-trainers, for instance;
he could assault a brace of live-pigeon
shooters. Then he could commit mayhem
with some of the people responsible for
the shocking conditions under which
much livestock travels. He would, of
course, be arrested.
I only knew one person who carried
conviction into action in this manner.
She was a nurse, a young woman who
could not endure brutality. One night,
walking along Darlinghurst-road, King’s
Cross with her fiance, they saw two
hefty policemen dragging a smaller man
to the waiting Black Maria, and, in the
process, “knuckling” him mercilessly.
The girl impulsively leaped on the back-
step and said “Leave him alone, you big
bullies.” The astonished faces looked
down at her. Then one said “Scram,
sister.” Suddenly aware of the enormity
of her action, she scrambled back to her
open-mouthed fiance.
Bertrand Russell recently scored neatly
off a United States newspaper editor,
who categorically stated that the law, be-
cause it was the law (with no moral
qualifications), must be obeyed, by saying
that, as a loyal Englishman he was de-
lighted to hear it, since in that case the
editor doubtless acknowledged the
illegality of the American Revolution,
and acknowledged Elizabeth II as
Sovereign of the United States.
In any case, I doubt whether the
average Bulletin reader falls into the
category of people who stand and cheer
while a policeman is battered into
insensibility by thugs. It is a common
failing of moral lectures —they are
usually directed at the wrong people.—
J. Fountain (N.S.W.).
On Manus
The Canberra announcement that 173
Japanese war criminals serving sentences
at Manus Island are to be repatriated to
complete their terms in Japanese jails
means that construction on Manus will
suffer.
Working a six-day week from 8 to 5,
these criminals lifted the tangled
wreckage left by Americans and Chinese
to a reasonable form of order. They
were expert imitators. Doctors, lawyers,
clerks, officers and men, ignorant of
carpentry, raised hammers and planes,
copied the Western tradesman and did
a job as well as any modern carpenter.
Groans that they were a burden to
Australian economy were groundless.
Fresh vegetables came from their own
gardens, tended by their own men. Rice,
meat, clothing and cigarettes supplied
by the Government were repaid with
another giant quonset being completely
rehabilitated for Service use.
The terms of the Peace Treaty stipulate
the return of the criminals, but it means
the loss of a valuable working-force.—
Giris (Vic.).
National Service Scheme
The Services, accustomed so long to
budgeting within parsimonious grants,
are traditionally reluctant to spend
much money on self-advertisement. That
probably explains why they don’t make
much of a show when it comes to answer-
ing the daily criticism of their administra-
tion of the National Service Scheme.
Ever since armies were maintained out
of the public purse the representation of
soldiers* 1 wasting time, “messing around
drilling,” peeling potatoes, doing fatigue
and any manner of activity other than
handling weapons has been a good story
for the sensationmonger. The only
thing unusual about the present flurry is
that so much notice is being taken of the
weighty opinions of a small section of
youths who mostly left their school-desks
about two years ago.
What is forgotten is that war is about
30 per cent, fighting, and that an increas-
ingly large part of the forces don’t get
into front lines, but are needed for the
various service units. Thus, while learn-
ing to shoot and to wield a bayonet is
important in a soldier’s basic training,
equally important is the training uncon-
sciously absorbed in the methods, the
forms, the discipline, the atmosphere and
the code of honor of the Army.
Without risking boredom or fatigue,
three concentrated months cannot be
spent entirely on weapon-training, even
though a much longer period is required
for reasonable proficiency. The best the
Army can do is organise the necessary
recreational activities in a military
fashion and ensure that the youth is
kept busy.
Difficulties and shortages have
hampered the N.S. scheme, but are
accepted as normal and quite applicable
to war-time. Despite them, the Services
are achieving a good basic training,
much-needed disciplinary training among
youths who grew up without it, and
considerable improvement in physique.
—Niheru (N.S.W.).
Selling Australian Books
In a survey of Australian book-
publishing Melbourne “Age” concludes
that* Australians are poor buyers of
Australian fiction, though they buy
well of non-fiction Australian titles, and
that “Australian publishing can become
healthier only if the demand for its pro-
ducts increases.”
Moved by this the manager of the
Lothian Publishing Co. (Melbourne) —a
company which has been in the game
many years—said that there were 800 to
1000 Australians who regularly bought
one copy of each new Australian book in
the first six to nine months of publica-
tion. He added that unless a publisher
could put 2500 to 3000 copies of a new
book through the booksellers in that time
there was nothing in if, costs alone
making such sales necessary to finance
publication.
On achieving publication of a couple
of novels abroad in the past couple of
years, I asked local representatives of the
publishers about publishing editions
here. Each said that it was cheaper to
have the books done in England and
shipped out than to have them done in
Australia. What’s more, the local retail
price of both books, after being made in
England and shipped here, was much
lower than that of similar books printed
and published here.
There are probably many reasons for
this. Not being familiar with the pub-
lishing business I can only suggest that,
from an author’s point of view, and
speaking strictly of fiction, one main
trouble is the timidity of Australian
critics and writers. Too many critics are
afraid to say what they really think of
a book for fear some other critic will
say something different, and authors fret
too much about what critics will say—
often before they finish writing the book.
For my part I believe that Australian
writers of fiction will attract more Aus-
tralian readers when they stop fretting
about what people will think, when they
learn to sub-edit their own work ruth-
lessly, when they dare to make their fiction
original rather than trying to ape some-
one else’s style or theme, and when they
stop being literary evangelists of some
cause or other.—B. S. (N.S.W.).
* v
Libraries and Research
It is not always so easy to acquire
“a basic knowledge of a limited field of
study” (B. 1/7/’53), even when one is
a regular library-attender. For one thing,
because of domestic and other reasons,
many people can’t get along readily to
the excellent Mitchell and Public libraries
in Sydney.
On general subjects (say, Australian
poetry), the Sydney Municipal and
W.E.A. libraries can doubtless provide
reading-matter. But often neither library
possesses a particular book or has any-
thing at all on a certain aspect of a
subject.
Which lends point to a recent state-
ment by Prof. Joseph Burke, Professor of
Fine Arts at Melbourne University, that,
in the matter of libraries, Australia is
far behind other countries —“no Aus-
tralian library can be mentioned in the
same breath as the main libraries in
Europe, or even the first 20 in the
U.S.A.” —K. M. Ross (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 237
Across
I—Yours Truly is one who boxes
Kelly when opposed. (8)
s—Drastic criticism by a boy gasped
and breeched. (6)
10—Haze managed roofing, but does
not construe another tongue
correctly. (13)
12— Pen that is hasty when humor-
less. (3)
13— Sub-conjunction owned by the
dexterous and played by the
trimmest strokemakers. (4-4)
15— Bewitch a fellow going to St.
Andrew’s Cross. (3)
16— To know a funny fellow. (3)
19— Press craft saw through this for
boarding. (8)
20— A bit of drudgery by a disease
otherwise known as St. Vitus
Dance. (6)
23—Constituents of a Shakspearian
comedy. (6)
25 King role for a Schubert song
about a spirit king. (8)
26 Brace in tow. (3)
27 Invite. (3)
29—Row with the boss is the promi-
nent announcement in the paper.
(8)
31—One accompanies you always. (3)
33—Money remnants of a dynamited
Head-of-the-River crew. (6, 2,5)
35 — The bigoted ran back to the line.
(6)
36 Example in the manner of stand-
ing. (8)
Down
1— Such ,• carrots-to-donkeys are in
the money with Burl. (10)
2 Rich, majestic ceremonial over
an obstinate courtesan. (9)
3 Petrol’s middle is a letter too
soon for Shaw. (3)
4 Chivalry is to go wrong with an
effort. (8)
6 Why everything is first a friend.
(4)
7 Tenth bird he follows. (5)
8— Smash to pieces during a top-
speed journey. (4)
9 Outs complement these batting
vicissitudes. (3)
11—-Disciple of Zeno. (5)
14—Greetings to a titled fellow with
goblin paintings in an Australian
city. (6)
17— Billy—but ■ this might well be
Nanny. (3, 3)
18 — Girl in a thousand to dispute
the point of religious ceremony
with a flower. (10)
21—Can-can presented with an ounce
of the Japanese Alsatian, (3-3-3)
22—Seabird about the reef gully
plant. (4-4)
24—Way into the steamer swings. (5)
28 —Guide a beast in the trees. (5)
30— Frank beginning of an ode to
Penelope? (4)
31 — Danish island plane. (4)
32 — Age what distinguishes Browne
from Brown? (3)
34 —This has to be obtained to dress
up. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 236


0
N
■
vv
a a
at slip# ft)rough your finger#
Those small amounts that are so easily
frittered away can just as easily be saved.
The M.L.C. Saving and Protection Policy
is designed to help you save them.
The Policy has three aims and three direct
benefits.
First —it is a means to easier, systematic
saving.
Second —it is a form of old age investment.
Third —it is, in the case of death, a guarantee
that your dependants will be provided for
financially.
ẅ
The MUTUAL LIFE and CITIZENS’
Assurance Co. Limited
.r&~'
MAH
BY
. ■u-'f
ML2B/FP
