

FOR PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION , BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
PRIMARY PRODUCERS’ INCOME -TAX GUIDE-mge n
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3836
Wednesday, August 19, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspapex
Seppelts
OFFICIAL RESIDENCE OF LONDON’S LORD MAYOR, THE MANSION HOUSE
RISING above the seething traffic at the hub of the City’s busiest streets
near The Bank of England, is the Mansion House, official residence
of the Lord Mayor of London. Buffi during the years 1739 to 1753 this
famous building stands upon the site which, in the thirteenth century served
as a fish market which provided revenue for the upkeep of Old London
Bridge. This market was known as the Stocks Market, for in it were kept
the stocks —a device in which victims were locked for the punishment of
some offence. To make way for the building of the Mansion House, the
stocks were removed to a site near the Fleet Prison ; and today, one set,
complete with whipping post, is to be seen in Shoreditch churchyard*
The Mansion House was designed in the Renaissance style by George
Dance the elder and its prominent feature is the imposing Corinthian portico
which is an attractive landmark in that part of London known as the City.
The portico was designed for the Lord Mayor’s use when viewing processions
or when taking the salute when troops march past. Many famous men,
including Field-Marshals Alexander and Montgomery and General (now
President) Eisenhower, have spoken from the Mansion House balcony.
In addition to the residential and ceremonial apartments, the building
has a court of justice with cells below; the Lord Mayor is the City’s Chief
Magistrate and attendance at the Mansion House is therefore not always
voluntary. Most important of the many apartments in the Mansion House is
the Egyptian Hall, which accommodates four hundred people and is the scene
of banquets, balls and other civic functions. The stained glass windows
depict historical subjects, and the walls of this great room are hung with
rich tapestries and notable paintings.
One of London’s great Ceremonial occasions centres around the Lord
Mayor when he rides in a superb gilded coach to the Law Courts to receive
the Monarch’s assent to his election. He is accompanied by outriders and
liveried footmen and followed by a long procession of decorated vehicles
and tableaux.


CAREER PLANNING
STOTTS can prepare you—in your OWN
HOME —for a SUCCESSFUL CAREER or
for PROMOTION in your present sphere.
Mail the Coupon today.
Shorthand/Typcwriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English,. Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
mmm
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
j CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON ~~~
I To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
I obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in—
The Red Page
A LADY IN THE BUSH
Helen Heney’s Dark Moon (Angus and
Robertson) is a rarity amongst Australian
historical novels in that its purpose is
neither historical nor sociological. It is
neither a welter of period color nor a
treatise to tell us what we are made of ;
but it is, on the contrary, what the novel
in its purest form should be —primarily
a story. If it is not a masterpiece it is
at least in the vein in which a master-
piece of fiction, as distinct from a monu-
ment of history, could be written.
It is 9, story, a compact little drama ;
it does riot sprawl all over the place. It
has a plot. It has not too many charac-
ters. It is as tidy as a Trollope novel,
and it may well have been influenced by
that master, for not only is it like him
in its neatness but its plot is just the
sort of situation in which he delighted :
the conscience-problems of a clergyman
. . . who in this instance is the Reverend
Edward Meredith, whose fiancee, instead
of being comfortably drowned in a ship-
wreck as he had believed, turns up
awkwardly alive, six years later, as a
prisoner of the aborigines in the wild
forests of Gippsland.
What is the Rev. Edward to do when
he has enjoyed so long the respect, the
devotion, the comfort, the tender
feminine flutterings that surround an
eligible and comely bachelor with a
broken heart? Is he to plunge into the
bush to rescue his lost Evelyn, the instant
the first rumors of her survival reach him
through the blackmailing Yarwood, when
really his love for her has altogether
faded? If she is found, must he be true
to his vow to marry her? And how is
he going to do that, when he is most
ardently sought in marriage by the
dynamic Louisa Pockley, the half-sister
of his closest friend, and is dimly tempted
to succumb to her?
Well, it might occur to Edward that
Evelyn would no longer want to marry
him; that, having lived for six years as
the prisoner and obviously the mistress
of a bold bad aborigine known as Batke,
she could conceivably be ill, be disgusted
with men for life, or even be attached
to her black seducer. In any event
Edward has clearly a strong case for
release from his vows.
But if Miss Heney allows Edward to
face these plain facts most of her novel
would promptly disappear ; for the whole
action depends on his problem of con-
science, So Edward is not allowed to
face the facts until very near the end,
and rushes happily about like a demented
rooster until Miss Heney has completed
the requisite 75,000 words to make a
popular novel.
And here, of course, Miss Heney parts
company from Trollope who, though he
might still have found a problem of
conscience for Edward, would have
looked at the matter much more realisti-
cally, and would have made Edward do
so, too. The whole of Dark Moon,
indeed, takes place on a plane of some-
what exalted unreality. Edward, though
excellently-drawn up to a point, is not
always plausible. Neither is his friend
Francis Pockley—again admirably-drawn
up to a point—plausible when he falls
passionately in love with Evelyn on
the instant when, haggard, emaciated,
ravished and nearly demented, she is
restored to civilisation from the clutches
of the wicked Batke. And the end of
the story, when Evelyn disappears in
some fashion never clearly explained —•
perhaps mystically transported to a better
world; perhaps by suicide; perhaps
merely to take a job as a shepherd in
the bush where nobody knows her—is as
vague and unreal as it is disappointing.
Miss Heney has, one suspects, been
reading, as well as Trollope, that obscure
Australian novelist William Hay, or
possibly Hay’s exemplar, the novelist
Meredith after whom she has named her
clergyman. As in Hay and Meredith
there is a cryptic air about the book ;
there are trails that lead nowhere ; there
are clues that lead the reader up a gum-
tree ; there are dark hints and mysterious
utterances ; people don’t finish their con-
versations. Perhaps it is a way of creating
suspense, and perhaps it is the novelist’s
way of avoiding plain statements . . .
because a plain statement of what her
characters are doing, and why they are
doing it, would so often sound un-
believable.
The novel is not quite like life, then ;
it is not quite truth ; it is a kind of polite
fiction. But then, when so many Aus-
tralian novels are written in the idiom
of the gutter or deal only with the crudest
aspects of life. Dark Moon is genuinely
polite. Miss Heney’s people are mostly
well-bred and well-mannered; her prose
is elegant; she mentions, as well as love
and aborigines, the Greek drama, and
she has the most amazing array of
chapter-headings quoted from rare and
mystical authors. Altogether, her novel
is like a charming antique chair, pleasing
m line, darkly polished, and just a little
wobbly.
Kylie Tennant -Her History
In Australia: Her Story (Macmillan)
Kylie Tennant has abandoned fiction for
fact. Hers is an anecdotal history of
our country—while the Scotts and
Ellises are out lecturing on facts
carefully marshalled on thoroughly-
mapped fields of history and biography,
Miss Tennant entertains us in the draw-
ing-room with the colorful gossip. Her
method is based upon Mark Twain’s
assessment:
Australian history.... does not read like
history, but like the most beautiful lies;
and all of a fresh new sort, no mouldy old
stale ones. It is full of surprises and
adventures and incongruities, and contra-
dictions, arid incredibilities; but they are
all true, they all happened.
Miss Tennant proceeds by chapters,
each of which gives a new overall
character to the Australian: we begin
as Pelsart’s Dutchmen, wrecked on the
Abrolhos; we arrive for keeps as English
convicts; we continue as roistering Rum
Corps soldiery ; we become sheepfarmers
with Macarthur, builders with Macquarie,
explorers with Sturt, sealers, whalers,
squatters, gold-diggers, Cobb and Go.
drivers, bushrangers, etc., in turn.
The book is thus an agreeable series
of essays on aspects of our history, and
a readable introduction to it. As might
be expected, the popular-novelist’s love
of a clear emotional division between
goodies and baddies sometimes over-
simplifies issues; in the struggle for self-
government in Tasmania, for instance,
one should not lose sight of the fact that
the lovers of freedom were as often as
not as cunning as a barrowload of
monkeys, and as unscrupulous ; and one
seems to remember, in W. A. Townsley’s
recent study of the affair, that Governor
Denison was privately in favor of self-
government for Tasmania, but publicly,
and very properly, the voice of British
administration; while his predecessor,
Wilmot, was beaten by a ganging-up of
business pressure-groups not unlike those
which deplored the measures Sir Arthur
Fadden took a year or two ago to save us
from inflation.
In her later remarks on William Morris
Hughes, Miss Tennant is more able to
deal in highlights and shadows; and her
remarks on the Lang policy of repudia-
tion during the big depression are an
interesting woman’s-last-word on her
regrettable and much-regretted indict-
ment as a Leftist in the House of Rep-
resentatives ;
Had the British bondholder wished to
retort, he could have pointed cynically to
the fate of the Northern Australian Meat
Company, which invested nearly a million
pounds in the cattle industry and meat-
freezing plant at Darwin. It was a sub-
sidiary of a well-known set of capitalists
called Vesteys, and die white workers of
Darwin naturally treated it as an enemy.
So outrageous were their demands, so
sudden and triumphant their strikes, that
they permanently wrecked not only Vestey’s
freezing-works , but their own chances of
employment. They secured the recall of
one administrator, boldly deported another,
and with him the Commonwealth judge.
Production stopped, industry ceased, ship-
ping disappeared. It was a triumph for
the unions, who had seen to it that the
British bondholder entirely withdrew his
capital and quitted his investment at a
loss. Nor was he likely again to dare the
might of the entrenched workers in
Darwin. Meanwhile the entrenched workers
were out of a job.
Indeed, she has the woman’s ability to
call a spade a spade wherever she sees
it; one does not remember any man, no
matter what he said against J. T. Lang,
considering, even at the height of the
depression controversy:
Mr. Lang was the closest approach to 31
National Socialist leader that Australia
possessed, and had he wished to lead a
revolution he could have done so. How-
ever, he did not have the temperament
It reminds one of a time when one
worked for Associated Newspapers, and
Mr. Herbert Campbell Jones, the most
awesome figure in Australian journalism,
was waiting for the lift. A millionaire
theatre-owner, also waiting, introduced
his wife. “Ah, yes,” said the lady to
Mr. Campbell Jones ; “you’re the man
with the peculiar ideas about politics.”
No silence has ever been so profound as
that in which we all went up in the lift.
Old China
In The Big Chariot (Angus and
Robertson), Charmian Clift and George
Johnston show that Australians can write
as good a costume-novel as anyone over-
seas ; as smooth, as full of action, as
clearly characterised, as historically
persuasive—which is not necessarily to
say accurate. And, like 'most overseas
best-sellers, it has something of the artistic
insincerity of a fashion-parade.
When one speaks of the “sincerity”
of a historical romance, one must mean
its creative power; one thinks of the
tremendous force of creation in Dumas
that produced such characters as his
Marguerite and Henry of Navarre,
Chicot, the Due de Guise, the monk,
Gorenflot, with their exuberance of
action, their instinct for intrigue, their
brilliant dialogue ; or the lightning-flashes
of insight that revealed in Henry 111 and
Catherine de Medici the dark and tor-
tuous processes of royal thought. Be-
side such creations the characters of The
Big Chariot are hardly more than well-
dressed mannequins; but they un-
doubtedly are well-dressed; and one
cannot reasonably expect to find a
Dumas in every popular novelist. It is
enough for the purposes and values of
this novel—and indeed ho mean achieve-
ment —that it has been bestselling in
America.
The writers have taken the period in
the middle 1600’s when the Ming empire
of China was breaking-up. The twin
sons of the debauched emperor’s honest
minister set out from Peking to make
their careers; Wei, the soldier, to join
the army of General Wu on the Great
Wall; Yuan, the scholar, to study under
Wang the printer at Chang-an.
A rebel army under the bandit Li
marches on Peking. Yuan marches with
the array in the hope of saving his father;
but the old minister strangles himself in
the captured capital, after confiding to
Yuan’s care the mother and daughter of
an old friend long since banished from
Peking.
Yuan escapes with the mother and
little girl through a secret gate ; and
while they are hiding in the hills news
comes that General Wu fias joined forces
with the Manchus, retaken Peking, and
given the throne to the Manchu leader.
A new Ming court, with another effemin-
ate emperor, is set-up at Nanking, and
there Yuan goes with the child and two
old servants, the mother having been
murdered, to serve under the Ming general
Shih K’o-fa, who is preparing to resist
the Manchu army under General Wu.
When a parley is arranged between the
two generals, Yuan is General Shih’s
aide, and his twin-brother Wei faces him
across the table as aide to General Wu.
Some years and many adventures later,
the Manchu emperor demands that
General Wu, now Prince of the West,
cut off the heads of the surviving Ming
emperor and his son; there is more
battle; the heads are lopped, and brother
Wei sets Yuan free and gives him back
his ward, who has been the dead emperor’s
concubine, and they presumably live
happily ever after.
“Strip the Dragon Robe from ancient
China, and it stands before us most
assuredly as a man, recognisably the
same as we are,” say the authors in their
foreword; and this precept, within their
limitations, they follow very well: the
portraits of generals Wu and Shih are
solidly and humanly drawn ; the big set-
pieces like Li’s capture of Peking and
the siege of Yang-Chao go off with a
bang; the picture of a depraved emperor
taking a breather after cutting the throats
of his women is imaginatively suggested;
the smoothly-running action presents an
unruffled surface to criticism.
Australian Travels
How much the reader can enjoy such
a travel-book as J. K. Ewers’s With the
Sun on My Back (Angus and Robertson)
must depend to a large extent, in the
absence of special qualities of style or
observation, on how often he has visited
the same country with other travellers
who write the same kind of book. Thus
the present reviewer, having read in
Colin Simpson’s Adam in Ochre about
corroborees in Arnhem Land and Mel-
ville and Bathurst Islands, was distinctly
tempted to skip Mr. Ewers’s chapters
about similar corroborees in similar
places. Mr. Ewers saw his dark dancers
in company with Ted Shawn, the
American corroboree-enthusiast, and
writes about them with painstaking
detail; but there is not much dancing in
his plain, factual prose.
Similarly, his account of Albert Namat-
jira, Rex Battarbee and the famous
aboriginal art-factory at the Hermanns-
burg Mission follows a dozen, a score
or maybe a hundred similar reports in
books and newspapers; and even his
portrait of W. E. Harney under his
banyan-tree has previously been painted
by many other writers, including Mr.
Harney himself. The trouble with the
country anywhere back of Bourke, as the
reviewer found when inspecting the Birds-
ville Track, is that it is so sparsely popu-
lated that notable characters stand out
like jump-up country from the gibber-
plains and there was nobody one could
find in a short visit who had not already
been done-over, in this instance, by
George Farwell and Ernestine Hill.
The literary familiarity of many of
Mr. Ewers’s places and people—and of
his sociological observations—does not,
of course, invalidate the book for over-
seas circulation or for Australian readers
who may have missed Adam in Ochre,
The Territory, etc. But this reviewer’s
chief pleasure in it was in finding the
places (amounting in all to perhaps half
the book) that had not so often been
done before. Thus one does not recall
that anybody else has lately visited
Marble Bar in winter, and a very pleasant
spot Mr. Ewers makes of it, camping by
the bar of jasper that crosses the Coongan
and gives the town its name, “in a reedy
spot overhung by trees, and not far from
a red-faced cliff that rose sheer for about
fifty feet”:
When I thought about Marble Bar in
the past it was as the “hottest town in
Australia.” As such it is in the news
every summer. But no one ever tells the
world of its magnificent winter climate-
warm, mellow days with not a cloud in
the sky and crisp, cool nights, so cool that
there are even frosts. No one speaks of
the color of the rocks, the terracotta hills
against the blue sky, the lovely waters of
the Coongan overhung with river-gums—
a river whose gentleness is such a surprising
contrast to the rocky matrix in which it lies.
With the Sun on My Back (which
was somewhat extravagantly awarded a
£5OO prize in the Jubilee competition)
is the result of several journeys Mr.
Ewers has made from Perth to the NT.
and the Centre. He sees aboriginal
maidens tm-yandying at Moolyella, and
has some most interesting information
about aboriginal tin-mining by co-
operative effort in the Marble Bar area.
North of Marble Bar on his way to the
Kimberleys his camp at night is pervaded
by a loud, sustained and mysterious
whistling, “a high, shrill sound as if
hundreds of persons were whistling on
the one note,” for which he thought
frogs might be responsible—“but what
frogs would be doing in that arid stretch
of country I cannot imagine.” At
Wallal, along the coast between Port
Hedland and Broome, he heard stories of
sheep “literally blown into the sea” by
cyclones on the Eighty Mile Beach:
As the wind rises they drift before it
until they reach the coast. If the tide iB
out they continue over the sands and there
they stand, facing away from the wind.
When the tide turns they are trapped
between the incoming waters and the wall
of moving air behind them. Mustering
immediately after a blow has on two
occasions shown losses from this cause
of up to 3000 head. And this happens
during a “good” year, since it is the blows
that bring the rain.
In Broome he met Mary Durack; also
an Indonesian who, about to be deported
to his native land, “hinted darkly that
one day he would be back. The brown
people would return to Broome —and
perhaps not as servants.” At Derby he
saw the leprosarium; in the Kimberleys
he saw the Research Station on the banks
of the Ord River and learned what could
be done by way of irrigation, hydro-
electric power and closer-settlement if
ever the Ord River dam were con-
structed ; and at Hall’s Creek he was told
about a lost tribe of giant blackfefiows
in the Lake Mackay country, mostly
about seven-feet high—but Mr. Ewers
seems to fear this may be a tail story.


mm
is
i
& ’ #
A
m
m
mm
mm
■:'■ "■' "■, ■■■ ■■■ ■■;
.> V I
mi
mm
m
mm
r>. %V 0«
iiilift
I » > !
ilrattii
ms&smmimm
Our multiple shoe fitting section brings yon
All the Famous Names in Men’s Footwear
Just walk into our shoe department and our salesmen will find the shoe that fits perfectly . . . a shoe that
could have been tailored just for you! For here you’ll find the largest range of famous brand names of
multiple shoes in Sydney . . . names such as Hansman, Julius Marlow, Packard, etc. At Anthony Horderns’
your "fit” is assured by the use of the famous Brannock measuring device, plus the experienced staff.
“Sir Herbert
Barker”
Julius Marlow
Hansman
Packard
Above:
Warwick calf Oxford in black or tan, 79/'. 541.
Unillustrated:
Julius Marlow “Coaster” in black or tan calf, 79/-. 5 to 11.
At right:
Sir Herbert Barker Orthopedic Shoes, made in Eng'
land. It is the perfect comfort and daily increasing health
that these shoes give that has made them so well known.
Black or brown glace kid, also black box calf. Made in
three fittings. Sizes 5 to 10, 100/'.
Illustrated above, from left to right:
Packard Shoes. This famous name
shoe comes in many different styles,
ranging in price from 86/- to 98/-.
Illustration shows black calf plain toe
Derby, also tan, 86/'. Fractional fittings.
Sizes 5 to 12.
Julius Marlow. In 60 measured fit'
tings, black and tan calf, ranging in
price from 79/' to 89/-. Illustrated
Moccasin Golf Shoe with rubber sole
and heel, in tan calf. Sizes are 5 to 11
in 60 measured fittings.
Hansman Shoes. Super grade shoes
are made in the finest black or tan calf.
You have them in either round or square
toe. In fractional fittings, 5 to 11, 109/-
a
m
x>
Men’s Shoes,
George Street.
’Phone: M 2401.
Box 2712, G.P.O.
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING-'
df
■■■rr


Palinu, a Troublesome Prophet.
KING OF THE MANUS
By K.A. SAXBY
The writer of the following curious
account did his investigating on the spot.
FOR three years, from 1947 to 1950,
there flourished under the Aus-
tralian flag what amounted to a
native State under the absolute con-
trol of an anti-European ex-Jap col-
laborator—Paliau of Lipan-Mouk, ex-
sergeant of native police—who urged his
followers to look forward to the day
when the white-man would be driven from
the Pacific islands for ever.
His “kingdom” embraced about 4000
of the native people of South Manus.
The majority of them would probably
follow him as unquestioningly as before
if he were to “get up no good” again.
Probably no other New Guinea native
has had such a strong and continuing
influence over his fellows. For years
Paliau has held a third of the population
of the Admiralty Islands in the hollow of
his hand.
Although his stage is small and remote,
eyes far outside the Admiralties have
been upon him. The Australian Press has
“featured” him. Questions have been
asked at U.N.O. He has been variously
regarded as a patriot struggling for in-
dependence, a progressive leading his
people in new paths, a troublemaking pain
in the neck, and an outright menace.
It is easier to tell what he did than
why he was able to do it.
He found the 2000 reef-dwelling
Manus “salt-water” folk, after whom the
island is named, early in 1947, full of a
restless discontent and ripe for changes.
The war had brought 3000 Japs and
100,000 Americans to Manus, and the
natives’ habits of thought had been com-
pletely upset. Their sense of values had
been ruined by the freely-flowing dollars
and even more by the big, easy war-
damage money paid out by the Admini-
stration later. They had lost their respect
for Europeans, and the Eddywardian
regime after the war did nothing to re-
store it.
They did not want a return to the pre-
war conditions wherein it had been neces-
sary to work to get money. They wanted
something new. -Paliau was on hand to
give it to them.
He preached that weird Melanesian
delusion, the cargo-cult, promising them
heaven-sent ships loaded with everything
they wanted, including all the coveted
white-man’s goods. They would not need
the white-man any more. They were not
to work for him or trade with him. Soon
he would be forced to go away, and they
would take over all his stores and planta-
tions. Paliau claimed, too, to be in direct
communication with God, and told # his
followers they could come to no harm
if only they obeyed the Divine commands
he would pass on to them.
The Manus fell for it like one man.
Some even threw all their belongings into
the sea in order to be more worthy of the
divine munificence. They left their pile-
villages and moved to less desirable but
“divinely” appointed sites on the small
islands and along the swampy foreshores
of the south coast of the island.
Each of the new settlements was
adorned with the symbols of Paliauism —
fence, entrance-archway, temple and jetty
for the unloading of the cargo. A “police
force” organised from young toughs in-
timidated and bullied, and, when they
dared, bashed recalcitrants. The “king”
had his own Customs-houses, barter-trade
system, and bank —the latter, according to
report, a large tin-box under his bed, into
which the faithful eagerly poured their
cash. He led his followers in a break-
away from the R.C. Mission to which
most of them belonged, and set up his
own religion, with himself as head.
At first he was content to claim that
God took him up “on top” to talk with
him, but later it appears it was God who
“came down” to him.
He made determined efforts to “get
hold” of the whole native population of
the islands group, and at one time looked
like doing it. About 2000 of the simple
Usiai agricultural folk came down from
the hills of “Big Manus” to make
common cause with the “saltwaters.”
Thus, sitting in his saksak “capital”
of Lipan-Mouk on Baluan Island, this
political, economic and religious dictator,
with his retinue of yes-men and wives,
was allowed to “boss” a bitterly anti-
white movement without interruption for
three years. The missions had been
rejected, Government officials were defied,
traders and planters blackballed, and the
attitude to Europeans generally was
arrogant and often enough insolent.
A “moral suasion” trip to Port Moresby
at Government expense did nothing to
alter Paliau. When at last he was
arrested, in April, 1950, he was given
only six months on a minor charge. How-
ever, his “bank,” now containing about
£6OOO, was taken over by the Administra-
tion, and a village-group council and co-
operative was established at Baluan under
the supervision of a resident European
official.
Paliau, when he came out —he has
“been in” again since, for three months
—was shrewd enough to trim his sails
to the wind, and the “divine” commands,
visions and revelations were quietly
dropped. The prophet of God became
the chairman of the village council. Since
then he seems to have watered down his
objectives to the point of respectability
and appears to be trying to attain them
through more-or-less official channels.
But it all has the look of a surface refor-
mation only.
The villages, with their fences, arches,
jetties, eternally clanging bells and rigidly
organised inhabitants, remain as before.
The Paliau “religion” is as strong as ever
—it is doubtful if the Mission will ever
get those backsliders back. Underneath,
there remains the fanaticism and the anti-
Europeanism which form the living spirit
of the Paliau movement. And, certain
beyond all doubt, the loyalty of the
natives of this forward-defence area has
been badly sapped.
It is the old story of the power of the
prophet among a primitive people, and
has been repeated scores of times in
Africa, Asia and the Western Pacific.
The worst example of it was “the
great cattle-killing” in South Africa. The
Amaxosa tribe, under the spell of a
prophetess, killed off all their cattle and
ate up all their food-reserves, in the un-
shakable belief that on a certain day in
February, 1857, the “spirits of the great
dead” would appear, bringing with them
vast new herds and a huge abundance of
grain. Then they would lead the tribes-
men against the white men and drive
them into the sea.
The day came, but the spirits did riot
live up to their promises. The wretched
Kaffirs were left to starve. More than
60,000 perished.
In spite of the differences in time, place,
and scale, the similarity between the
Amaxosa mass-madness and the opening
stages of the Paliau movement is not hard
to find.
The Manus ‘‘Messiah” is a shrewd
leader and a capable organiser and has
avoided coming to grief like so many of
his kind. He has shown a flexibility and
an adaptability rare among such gentry.
Nevertheless, in the beginning he appealed
to the same blind credulity and invoked
the same spirit of fanaticism as the crazy
Kaffir prophetess nearly a century ago.
One thing it shows is what a hard, long
job it is going to be really civilising the
native mentality, which is the only way
to civilise them at all. The only answer
is education, generations of it, thorough,
compulsory, and of the right kind, based
on the fact that at least 90 per cent, of
these New Guinea natives must always
be cultivators or fishermen. These people
must get hold of the idea that the only
way they are going to get anywhere is
by hard work, straight thinking, and
discipline, and that there is no such thing
as something for nothing.
On one thing most who really know
these Territories would probably agree—
that self-government in them should begin
at the very lowest level, in village councils.
Also, that cargo-cults and anti-white
movements and such like, whenever they
appear, should be recognised for what
they are and smartly and firmly sat upon,
not dignified with patriotic or national-
istic labels.
The great mass of the natives, whose
horizons are bounded by their village or
at most by their linguistic group, have no
idea as yet of either patriotism or
nationalism as we know them. Perhaps
they will be spared much if they never
do get it. Paliauism, wherever it occurs,
puts the clock back. It certainly does not
prove mat the native is acquiring Western
ideas and civilisation. On the contrary,
it proves all too clearly that he is not.
Aptitude Test for Prospective
Teachers’ College Entrants
1-—You are sft. 3in. in height and
weigh Bst. 61b. As headmaster you
are the only one of the staff allowed
to use the cane, and there is sent
to your study for punishment by a
teacher, at whom he threw his ink-
well, a boy of 16, nearly 6ft. tall
and weighing over list. Immedi-
ately you pick up the cane he
snatches it out of your hand, snaps
it in two across his knee, and, push-
ing his nose aggressively against
yours, rasps “Orright, Stinker—well
settle it this way”—and he shapes up.
You, have heard that he is the
district’s best junior fighter. State
whether you would consider that it
might perhaps be far better, in the
interest of his calligraphy, which you
have noticed is below standard, if
you were to order him to write 50
lines on some subject instead of
selecting another cane.
2. In your sipall country school
you have a pupil of a classic thick-
sess of skull, through which you
have found it practically impossible
!u uetrate. He is consistently at
the bottom of the school, and all he
seems to do all day is doodle in his
exercise-book or read comic-papers.
At the end of the term you restrain
comment onlv on his home-report
card: “Lazy and absolutely hopeless.
As as anv mini! Vvp P v P r
As t brainless as any pupil Ive ever
lust before you are about to send
the reports out you happen to attend
a dance at which you meet a charm-
ing, pretty girl who seems to evince
a lively interest in you. You learn
her name, which is the same as that
of the dumbbell pupil, and it trans-
pires that she is his elder sister,
Would you, on second thoughts,
deem that it might be dangerous and
unwise to discourage a pupil, per-
haps lead to the wrecking of his
whole future academic career, by
making so sweeping a condemnation
of his efforts, and that you would be
justified, purely on this score, in
altering the comment on his report
to read: “Is showing steady improve-
ment, but needs more homework to
bring out the best in him”?
3. —You have inaugurated a series
of practical lessons in nature-study,
and have invited your pupils’ co-
operation in bringing specimens,
You commence on fruits, these being
of far greater interest than flowers;
and, not wishing to make the school-
grounds untidy by throwing the
specimens out when the lessons are
finished, you are forced to take them
home to get rid of them.
You turn to fauna ; you feel,
however, that native specimens such
as wombats, geckos, bandicoots,
etc., are less satisfactory for pur-
poses of demonstration than are
domesticated animals or wild bush
rodents, such as rabbits and hares,
As time goes on, however, you find
that these, with the fowls and ducks
which you also have to get rid of
afterwards, are constituting a rather
monotonous diet. Explain why, in
your opinion—the district being a
famous pork- and bacon-raising one
—it is time you gave a series of
demonstration-lectures on the suck-
ing-pig.
4.—Pursuant to the foregoing
question. One morning, on first
entering your classroom, you open
your desk to get the blackboard-
duster, only to reel back against the
blackboard as a couple of feet of
red-bellied black snake starts to
slither out. Would you take this,
and remark on it to the class, as an
example of the aggressiveness of
snakes when suddenly disturbed, and
as an instance of their peripatetic
habits, and would you further con-
sider it as a reminder that some time
ago you had promised the class to
give them a lecture on the peculiar
ways of the ophidians?
5 .-The country school of which
you have been appointed headmaster
j s set in dudes t ) dreariest and
most desolate-looking landscape pos-
sible to imagine) and your misery is
made the sharper by thQ waspish
temper of your assistant, a vinegary
sp inster who had been retired some
years be f o re but has been brought
back because of the shorta ge of
teachers
You stand it for some months, but
. f , , . * ,
£ JSLnfS?’. 5 ?" sPply5 Pply
department for a transfer. A week
after you send it on your assistant
ItotSv
y - , . f *». J Jj’ hape y
g °°f'l°° ker of al f ut
. Would you flunk it best to send,
immediately after the urgent tele-
S ra m asking them to cancel your
application, a doctor s certificate to
effect that the dry, salubrious
climate which the district enjoys is
imperative to your continued good
health.
6. Being aware of the solid
advantages to pupils of inculcating
m them a love of gardening, you start
a school garden and, the better to
stress the desirability of the prac-
tical over the purely decorative, con-
centrate on vegetables rather than
flowers—in particular root-vegetables,
Your determination to cut algebra
and geometry lessons so that the
pupils may put the extra time into
more healthful agricultural pursuits
and learning is endorsed enthusiasti-
cally by said scholars, and the re-
suits are soon apparent.
So that their vanity may not be
puffed-up unduly, you wait till they
have gone home before, when you
deem it timely, you “bandicoot” and
find that the Factors are progress-
ing beautifully ; and you find it par-
ticularly gratifying that they are of
excellent flavor,
When the tops have sufficiently
withered you order the pupils to
start digging, and you express dis-
may at the meagreness of the potato-
crop—only “marbles.” Explain why
you would, the next day, set the
school to writing an essay on the
probable diseases which could have
caused the crop’s failure,
Bo.
THE BARON
r THE cleanest bloke I ever came across
outback was old Baron von Essen. This
Engiish-bom, Oxford-accented German
aristo had a face as red as a
turkey-gobbler’s, and, a thin man,
he always wore immaculately white
loose clothes and hat, so that more than
one river whaler in the dark had inad-
vertently mistaken him for a ghost.
Before retiring on a pension to the mid-
Murray “The Baron” had spent 35 years
in charge of a coaching-change at Nar-
rung, with gloves for all occasions. Then,
because Tapalin with half a dozen inhabi-
tants was too crowded, he shifted to a
paddock in Culpra beside the Murray,
miles from anyone.
First thing every morning the old
fellow had to have his shave and hot
bath ; these usually took him so long he
rarely had time to take breakfast. The
rest of the day he spent in washing and
sterilising everything, including himself,
in caustic soda. He never set a rabbit-
trap or fished. Once he told me, “I
used to fish and sometimes I never got
a bite all day. I had to give it up,
b’ Jove. I hadn’t the time.” Once a
fortnight he pushed a cart to Tapalin,
a three-days trip for him, and any change
at Billings’ store he religiously placed in
canvas bags which back home he steri-
lised before handling the money.
Last saw the gentlemanly old count in
the 1931 record flood when we picked him
up in the steamer Marion. He and his
belongings were stacked on two beds with
18 inches of water rushing underneath
them beside what was the river-bank.
And was he pleased to see us! He was
still waving a white towel an hour after
we had him safely aboard.
H.H.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 19, 1953
Vol. 74t—No. 3836
\
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man’*
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
YOUTH AND THE FUTURE
In many ways youth today is given a better start
in life than ever before. The school-leaving age is
higher ; secondary education is available to a larger
percentage of the population ; bursaries and scholar-
ships open the universities and the professions to
greater numbers. Youth-in-industry is no less favored.
Not for many years has the lad leaving school had to
face the problems of job-seeking that confronted
earlier generations. Well-paid jobs with good condi-
tions have been his for the taking, with the knowledge
that if the first one chosen did not.suit, he could switch
to another with equal ease. To him, too, has come
as a natural gift the extra leisure born of the 40-hour
week, unknown before his day. Youth, then, to all out-
ward appearances, has the ball at its feet. But to
“Contemplation’s sober eye” there is more than a
suspicion that the ball has a chain attached to it.
This present generation—the generation of the
Welfare State —plumes itself on its concern for the
“underprivileged,” the old and infirm and for those
whom it patronisingly styles “the little people,” but
by its very policy it is largely defeating its own
purpose. The Welfare State has, by high taxation,
gift- and death-duties, deliberately whittled down the
powers and rights of individuals to bequeath their
gains to their posterity, but in so doing it has also
whittled away the capacity of society as a whole to
bequeath its gains to the next generation.
'Lhe Welfare State is strong on organising the
paying-out side of social services. On paper it is
equally successful in organising the collection side —
the raising of the funds necessary to maintain the
services. But in practice it finds it impossible to
conceal that its success is largely illusory—that the
aged, for example, are not noticeably better off than
they used to be, and that the funds to provide for the
comfort of the old, the sick, the infirm and the young
-—in other words, the non-producers of the community
■ still have to come out of the earnings or the savings
of the fit and able —in other words, the producers.
It is becoming increasingly clear that today’s
Welfare State has been built up on the savings of the
past and at the expense of what should have been the
savings of the present, which by all precedent should
have provided the capital for the expanding needs
of the next generation—today’s youth, to whom “the
future belongs.” What needs to be recognised is that
the old saying that you can’t have your cake and eat
it, too, is as true today as it ever was, though there is
a tendency in Government circles to pretend that
modem economics have made it obsolete. Lord
Keynes used the homely illustration of the cake to
exemplify the part savings play in the national
economy, but the Welfare State envisages the national
cake as a sort of improved Norman Lindsay Magic
Pudding that is supposed not only to renew itself as
fast as it is eaten, but to grow bigger and bigger all
the time.
A run of bountiful seasons and abnormally high
prices for wool and wheat have helped to keep alive
the illusion that the pudding is growing bigger, but
cold reality tells that there has been no genuine expan-
sion in production, from which alone can come the
savings necessary for development and real growth.
Hampered by high costs, crippling taxation and boom-
bred inefficiency— not confined to wages-men—few
concerns have the funds needed for expansion or even
for the replacement, at high prices, of obsolescent
plant.
The misfortune of the youth of today is that they
are not equipped to realise this, having had experience
only of seasons of plenty and of an era of “full
employment.” The Socialist picture of the Govern-
ment as a fairy-godmother handing out gifts is one
that is widely accepted even by people who “don’t
believe in Socialism,” and the majority of our young
people would find it very hard to eradicate this picture
entirely from their minds. Yet the sight of rundown
rolling-stock on Government transport-systems, which
can’t be replaced because the bottom of the tax-
barrel and the loan-box have been reached should be
enough to show how false the picture is.
The burden in store for the next generation draws
its weight largely from our expanded social-services
programme, and it will grow heavier, for the same
reason. The truth is that the non-producers in our
population are increasing more rapidly than the pro-
ducers. In 1921 the percentage of persons over 65
(the retiring-age) was 4.4. By 1933 it had risen to 6.4,
and at June 30, 1950 (the latest figures available), it had
IN ORDER OF APPEARANCE
“Australian wool sales for 1953-54 start at the end of August. In Canberra the Budget will be presented on September 9.”
“Bring down the house, old boy ! I'm on next after you.”
reached 8.1 per cent., notwithstanding the high pro-
portion of young people among post-war immigrants.
Man being an optimistic animal, there is always
a tendency to disbelieve unpleasant truths, or to hope
for easy ways out of trouble. This accounts for the
widespread belief, encouraged by a superficial know-
ledge of recent scientific development, that science will
easily overcome threatening difficulties. High costs
and low productivity are at present our biggest
problem, and unless there is a radical change
in outlook they will still be the main problem of the
Atomic Age. There is still no substitute for hard
work. When school and university speech-day season
arrives later in the year politicians and others
would be well advised to lay-off “the-future-is-yours”
type of oration to the coming generation and con-
centrate on the less alluring theme of the virtues of
hard work. The Australian youth will work all right
when he knows he has to, but the longer he is allowed
to go on living in a fool’s paradise the harsher will be
the awakening.
Canberra Soap Opera
The leading players in the annual festival of the
Premiers’ tax-grab were not fully licensed stars. Per-
formers like Mr. Cahill, Mr. Gair and their Victorian
colleague Mr. Cain were still away in foreign parts and
delegated their roles to understudies. However, Mr.
Heffron, Mr. Galvin and Mr, Duggan proved that
actlng-Premiers can squawk just as loudly as full-
fledged ones.
It is only two months since Mr. Cahill
and his also-absent colleagues formed part of
the pack conducted by Dr. Evatt in the great, new
soap-opera feature called the “Tax-cut Chorus.” And
it was not easy for any performer who took part in
that show to quarrel with Mr. Menzies’s dictum that
“the maximum amount of encouragement must be
given to the people by the maximum possible tax-
reductions.” And as tax-reductions on the
scale which the country expects can only be
achieved by economy, which is already being severely
enjoined on Commonwealth departments, it was very
difficult for any State representative to argue effec-
tively against the forcing of an economy programme
on the States —even if such a programme were being
forced on them, which it isn’t. Moreover, all “Labor”
delegates were only too well aware that if they were to
try the Commonwealth Government too far, and it
were to push them off the duckboard into a slough
in which they would have to struggle with their own
taxation problems, the result might be suicidal for
“the party.” Unification is as vital a plank in the
“Labor” platform as socialisation, because the two go
together, and to attempt to achieve Socialism without
a centralised Commonwealth would be something like
cooking steak without fire,
'Die probability is that in actual fact the acting-
Premiers left Canberra very well satisfied with what
they got. But it would not have been good politics,
from their point of view, to show it. Their party
expected some good loud snarling from them, and they
produced it.
Last year their tax quota was £136 million, made
up of £lO9 million under the standing formula, plus
special grants of £27 million. From the forthcoming
year’s collections Mr. Menzies offered them £142
million —£120 million on the formula, plus a special
grant of £22 million. But at the same time he told
them, that in future they would have themselves to
carry the million-odd a year which they squander on
their ineffective price- and rent-control schemes. They
therefore got a net increase of £5 million a year, to
which the Prime Minister later agreed to add an addi-
tional £419,000 for Victoria and £40,000 for Tasmania,
after the visitors had arrived at. a deadlock among
themselves over a division of the spoils.
There was the normal acting in a scene of bitter
reproach for the parsimony of the Federal Cabinet.
Mr. Heffron, playing the lead, described its offer as
“pitiful.” He said he was “deeply shocked.” He asked
whether the Commonwealth was “serious”:
If the Commonwealth Is serious, then this meeting;
will go down in the history of Commonwealth-State
relations as ‘Black Monday.’
He declared that with its mere £56 million N. S. Wales
would face a repetition of last year's experience of
“cutting everything to the bone,” “wholesale sackings”
and “leaving undone of many things which ought to
be done,” the resort to “economy run mad.” He
described the partition as the “cutting-up of a crow”
instead of a turkey —Mr, Galvin, of Victoria, said “a
tomtit.” And he gave his word that it was utterly
impossible for New South Wales to get through on
such a small increase because its expenditure had been
reduced to the lowest possible level. He followed
these melodramatic statements with a threat about the
impending “day of reckoning.”
It is perfectly true that N. S. Wales is in a serious
plight, and Mr. Heffron probably was not insincere
in saying that it was a terrible thing for him to have
to go back without enough to mask the near-
bankruptcy which he and his fellow-squanderers and
careless administrators have brought on the State’s
head. But at the same time it is an even more terrible
thing for the taxpayers to be compelled to everlast-
ingly ladle out millions to recoup the squanderings of
an Administration the nature of whose financial safe-
guards has been exhibited in Mr. Heffron’s own
department recently.
It was noteworthy that the only full-fledged
Premier who took part in the main debate, Mr. Play-
ford, would have been satisfied if the allocations had
been increased by £3 million “to extend existing
services to provide for new settlers and the natural
increase in population.” Setting aside this mild
need. South Australia, a State in process of rapid
industrial expansion which should need more increase
in aid proportionately than N. S. Wales and Victoria,
seems to be able to carry on. But, then, its Transport
Department is not rotten, or its financial methods like
those of an Argentinian bookmaker.
Mr. Menzies gave no indication about the
Commonwealth’s plans in respect of uniform taxation
It is to be hoped that the Cabinet has some. Australia
is supposed to be a Federation of sovereign States, but
it is fast becoming a Federation of irresponsible
pressure-groups. There is no longer any real relation-
ship between taxation and representation. And that is
a position utterly at variance with the principles of any
kind of British Constitution, and adverse to the spirit
of State sovereignty which is the heart of the Federal
system.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Changing Wheat Market
What is not being stated clearly in the
wheat debate is that Britain, under an
anti-Socialist Government, is trying to get
out of Socialism as fast as it can. Know-
ing that today’s world carryover of wheat
totals nearly 1300 million bushels, Britain
refuses to bolster up either the U.S. prac-
tice of Government-buying of wheat to
keep it off the market or the I.W.A.
demand for a guaranteed price. So
wheat-trading in the U.K. returns to pri-
vate enterprise, Government-to-Govern-
ment wheat-trading ceases, and Britain
will bargain for wheat on an open market.
This means that the leader of the bloc
of importing countries signatory to the
I.W.A. has resigned, and that in turn
means that over 160 million bushels
(Britain’s normal annual purchase) is
removed from I.W.A. quotas. What that
means in I.W.A. readjustments, and how
it will affect Australian exports, remains
to be seen.
It is pretty obvious, however, that the
sudden price-drop in Chicago last week,
though followed by a small recovery, is
for Australian consumers the first cold
blast of reality. Ever since the war we
have, in a sense, been trying to keep local
prices down by the profits from exports
and by subsidies from tax-money, and
generally using this system to live high,
wide and handsome. So long as Britain
was committed to Socialism, either
wholly or in the half-baked way with
which we are bemusing ourselves, and so
long as Governments were prepared to
impose controls we got away with it.
Britain has not only given away British
Government controls of foodstuffs ; by
getting out of the I.W.A. she has given
away the idea of world-control, and the
Bank of England has freed exchange-
control for grain-trading. Put against
that the fact that the United States
Government has bought so much wheat
that it has nowhere to put it but is leav-
ing it on the farms to rot, and trying to
get rid of some by offering a 30-cents-
a-bushel discount, it is clear that Aus-
tralian wheatgrowers and their Govern-
ments need to do some pretty serious
thinking. And it wants to be thinking
that has jerked itself out of the Socialist
straitjacket.
Where the Australian grower finds him-
self now is in the middle of the readjust-
ment of markets, prices, and the future
which was bound to follow the removal
of controls. While the British Govern-
ment controlled the buying of wheat and
the Australian Government controlled the
selling of it the industry was a political
football. As such it saw its wheat sold at
low home prices to please huge urban
populations, though the wheatgrower got
no thanks for what he gave away, and
many people even thought he was being
“subsidised.” Now that it wants those
urban populations to bear a fair share
of the costs and to come up a little in
price as the export price goes down, it
finds State Governments jacking up on it.
Which seems to suggest that there isn’t
really much to fear in facing a free
market.
As for the vote by U.S.A. wheat-
growers to accept Government control
in return for a guaranteed price, what
that means is limited production. The
U.S. Government will pay the guaran-
tee only on a limited acreage, not, as the
Australian Government is being asked to
do, to encourage the growing of more
wheat.
Price-control
Under McGrirrr, Cahill and Heffron,
N. S. Wales “Labor” Governments have
been noisy and insistent on the necessity
for price-control. Their cry has been that
if it were removed the cost-of-living
would soar, thereby increasing the basic
wage, thereby causing the cost-of-living
to soar, thereby—etc., etc. Well, the
Federal Government has given notice that
it will no longer pay the cost of adminis-
tering price-control, so that those States
which wish to continue the practice will
have to find the cost themselves. Heffron
and co., on receiving this news, didn’t
say “Well, the whole economy of the
State depends on this. Whatever else
suffers, we must find the money—about
£295,000 —to keep prices down.” Instead,
Prices Minister Landa said Cabinet would
have to consider whether the State could
carry the burden. Mr. Heffron con-
curred.
Quite apart from a concern for the
living-costs of the people, the N. S. ’
Wales Government has a very pressing
reason for retaining price-control—-if it
really believes it to be as important as
it has maintained in the past. Every
time the basic-wage goes up one shilling
the wages-bill of the Government is in-
creased by £300,000. (The figures are
Mr. Heffron’s.) Thus even a rise of Is.
in the quarterly adjustment would, if the
Government’s argument is right, wipe
out the saving that would be effected by
eliminating the price-control machinery.
And in talking of keeping down costs
N. S. Wales “Labor” has not been think-
ing in terms of shillings on the basic
wage, but of pounds.
It is not likely that Heffron and co.
will abolish price-control at present, but
the mere fact that the Menzies move has
made them discuss the possibility sug-
gests that they do not really believe its
elimination would send prices sky-high.
To abolish price-control now would be
to admit that so long as someone else
paid the cost they have been prepared
to keep controls just for the .sake of con-
trolling. And that, in simple terms, is
not far from the truth.
Canada's Election
About six million' Canadians voted at
the general election last week, and the
result was an object-lesson in political
attitudes. Canada has a Liberal Govern-
ment which has continued in office under
two Prime Ministers, Mackenzie King
and St. Laurent, for 18 years. Its House
of Commons membership is 265 —it has
an appointed Senate of 102 members,
which therefore has none of the prob-
lems of our own Senate associated with
it.
The issues in any Canadian campaign
are always simple, and are usuaffy
financial or touch defence. Despite the
fact that going on for half of the popu-
lation is of non-British origin, foreign
affairs is beyond the ambit of politics,
as a rule, and when defence calls for a
mandate it is usually on the matter of
cost.
This time the issue was much like that
posed in Australia by the “Labor” party.
The Conservative Opposition-leader, Mr.
Drew, went to the polls on a definite
promise that he “could, and would,” if
elected, reduce taxation by $5OO million
a year, without reducing the cost of social
services or weakening defence, though he
proposed to pare the defence vote by
$250 million.
Canada’s defence vote has grown
nearly five-fold since the outbreak of the
Korean war —for the year ended March
31, 1950, it was $425 million, and for
the year ended March 31, 1952, the Par-
liamentary appropriation was $1434 mil-
lion, plus $5lO million of directly-
related expenditures in other depart-
ments. The reduction promised by the
Opposition in cost was, therefore, 12£
per cent, of the overall total, and it seems
—at this distance —that those who pro-
posed it were probably gambling on the
effects of the armistice at Panmunjom.
The Government lost a few seats,
mostly in the central-western provinces,
where the Co-operative Federation and
the Social Credit parties have influence;
but it still came back with at least 170
seats, to 95 divided among the other
parties, the Conservative Opposition win-
ning 50. The Communists did not suc-
ceed in winning a single one of the 100
seats which they contested.
Canada supports an amazing progress
in industry, agriculture, transport, growth
of personal wealth and' all-round
standards of education and individual
contentment without a single Calwell or
“Fixer” Ashley. It is something which
to Dr. Evatt and some Australian daily
papers must seem wellnigh incredible.
Russia's Troubles
“Ek Dum’s” summary:
The statement of the former U.S. Ambassador
to Moscow, Mr. George Kennan, that severe
strains and crises were rocking the Communist
world had some support in the speech of
Georgi Malenkov to the Supreme Soviets last
The levels of progress in the U.S.S.R. are hard
for the outsider to survey. Malenkov rave total
figures of production only in a limited number
of cases, and most progress he measured in
percentage-increases, without any basic figures
from which to judge the gross. Always he
claimed immense developments, but what figures
he gave are inconsistent with living standards
and plenitude of materials such as exist in
other big countries. With a population over
200,000,000, for instance, according to Malenkov
Russia’s butter-production last year was “400,000
tons, which will surpass by nearly 80 per cent,
the pre-war industrial production.” It looks
pretty small (considering that Russia embraces
a sixth of the world) when it is measured beside
Australia’s current production of anything up
to 200,000 tons in a good year among a popu-
lation of 81 millions; and the sugar-production
of the U.S.S.R. looks unimpressive at 3,000,000
tons beside Australia’s one million tons. Its
production of steel (38 million tons) is only
about half that of the United States; its 320
million tons of coal is less than half the
United States output; cement, 16,000,000 tons,
is less than half that of the U.S.
At the same time there is recorded an
unbelievable usage of electricity—l33,ooo million
kwh. —in proportion to the relatively scanty
materials of heavy industry, the distinctly
limited output of materials for clothing and
food and the claim that 80 million of the
population are now town-dwellers, as against
26 million in 1926 and 61 million in 1940.
With this change in the nature of Russian
living is obvious a struggle to keep the popula-
tion fed and housed even at Russia’s low
Asiatic standards. It is admitted that housing
programmes are “not fulfilled,” that the “speed
in cattle-production is insufficient, the pro-
ductivity of cattle remaining low”; that there
is a “serious lag in the production of potatoes
and vegetables”; that “agriculture in the rayons
and collective farms” is in a “neglected state”;
that there is “intolerable lag in stockbreeding”;
that “an upsurge of the whole national economy
is an urgent task.” It is admitted, also, that
during the past 28 years the “output of pro-
duction goods has increased 55 times over,
while the output of consumer goods has
increased only 12 times.” In the last 12 years
the increase in production goods has been three-
fold, and of consumer goods only 72 per cent.,
which “cannot satisfy us.” And Malenkov
conceded that “hitherto we have had no possi-
bility of developing light industry and the food
industry at the same rate as heavy industry.”
The attempts to explain this are unconvincing—
it is patent that much Soviet muscle is being
devoted to war.
Meantime, there is obviously a domestic crisis
caused by this unbalance, and the country is
told that “the urgent task lies in raising sharply
in two or three years the population’s supply
of foodstuffs and manufactured goods, con-
sumer goods a drastic upsurge, particularly
in agriculture is imperative.”
There are “serious shortcomings” in the
organisation of trade; quality, even where supply
is available, is not always what it should be.
And the “existence of factories, enterprises and
mines which are running at a loss under-
mines the foundations of the cost-accounting
of our industry” and is “affecting tlje growth
of revenue of the State budget.” These losses
are indeed high in the coal and timber indus-
tries. The losses on unprofitable industrial
enterprises are given at an astronomical figure.
The “bad state of affairs,” which affects the
plan for reducing costs, applies everywhere.
Losses are “running high in the building
industry,” which is struggling to provide rooms
for the teeming new urban populations.
Machine- and tractor-stations are “not fulfilling
their cost plans.” The “reduction of river-
transport costs is in an unsatisfactory state.”
The “plans for the reduction of overheads in
trade have not been fulfilled,” And civil-service
costs have been causing anxiety. Housing is
obviously in a muddle and the subject of
general complaint.
There is an overall uncertainty about the
domestic future, which is in strong contrast to
the certainty about foreign affairs, in which
Russia is still the same old Russia with the
viewpoint that the world is full of aggressors
“battening on the profits of armament,” and
with the United States in the centre of it all,
spending “huge sums for recruiting among the
dregs qf society—diversionist gangs which are
being introduced into democratic countries for
wrecking activities.” And it appears that the
armistice in Korea has been brought about
entirely by Communist China and the peaceful
North Koreans, who have earned Comrade
Malenkov’s congratulations.
Beer and Budgets
In Victoria last week one or two “Labor”
voices were heard suggesting the nation-
alisation of the brewing industry. No
one took much notice ; such cries have
often been heard before, and nothing has
ever come of them. But as on this occa-
sion the suggestion was made at a time
when five “Labor” Premiers were bemoan-
ing their shortage of funds and reviling
the Federal Government for not giving
them more, it is a wonder none of them
realised that they were being offered the
solution to their financial problems.
The Melbourne “Labor” men were
merely thinking in terms of the price of
beer; but, properly handled, the nation-
alisation of breweries could be the
answer to the Socialists’ prayer—at once
balancing their Budgets and doing the
Menzies Government in the eye. Run as
efficiently as they are at present —and no
Socialist would dream of admitting that
under nationalisation the efficiency of the
beer-factories, or of anything else, would
not measure up to the standards achieved
under capitalism—the breweries would
pour many millions of pounds into the
State Treasuries. Assuming the present
price was maintained, the States would
not only reap the profits that now accrue
to the breweries, but would also pocket
the vast sums now collected by the Com-
monwealth as excise.
Nor would the profit end there. As it
would not be logical to nationalise the
wholesale end of the beer-trade and leave
the retail end in the hands of private
enterprise, the pubs would have to be
nationalised, too. This might hit a few
“Labor” politicians, practising or retired ;
but you can’t make an omelet without
breaking eggs; and, anyway, they could
be given the managerships of some of
the bigger hotels.
Bar-trade would, of course, increase
enormously, since drinking would now
be a virtue instead of a vice, and to get
drunk on Government beer would be a
practical way of showing one’s patriotism
and loyalty to the State. Fines for
drunkenness would be a thing of the
past, as it would hardly be right to
punish a man for doing his duty. The
small amount of revenue lost in this way
would be more than offset by the
economies made possible in the police-
force—the constables trained to detect
drunks could be transferred to other
duties and there would no longer be any
need to police after-hours trading. The
Licensing Court would also go into the
discard, and there would no longer be
any need for royal commissions into the
industry.
Taking it all round, it’s a wonder the
breweries have been allowed to stay un-
nationalised for so long. Vested in-
terests? Well, if the shareholders aren’t
satisfied with 1942 values, plus 15 per
cent., what’s wrong with offering them
the State transport-systems in full pay-
ment?
Sir Winsome Churchill
From Westminster; An abrupt change in
Socialist propaganda has converted Sir
Winston from a trigger-happy belligerent
into a chevalier sans peur et sans
reproche. He is quite beyond the barbs
and insinuations that lost the Conserva-
tive party so many votes in the general
election of 1951, when the label “war-
monger” was applied, in frantic despera-
tion, to wring from anxious parents an
anxious mark on the ballot-papers. To
say that this change of tone springs from
general respect is less than the whole
truth. But it is a clear admission that
the propagandists are forced to acknow-
ledge that the electorate will no longer
be fooled by this most discreditable lie.
It also signifies an urgent desire on the
part of Labor to obliterate its embarrass-
ment from the public memory.
So, in a sense, the technique of propa-
ganda is back to 1945. Then, with
Churchill a national hero, he was ex-
cluded from censure, which, however,
was directed at the vague, unnamed
“Guilty Men” of the Tories.
With Mr. Eden a popular and
respected man and Mr. Butler altogether
unsuited for the cloak of reaction,
Labor’s green spotlight is given to much
furtive wandering. It came to rest for
a time on Mr. Lyttelton, and has now
fastened itself on Lord Salisbury. Per-
haps his unsought prominence as acting
Foreign Secretary made the focus obvi-
ous. He is a noble lord of ancient line-
age, has a rather stiff exterior and an
uncompromising style. It may be that
his personality is sufficiently neutral to
reflect either the green or the pink light.
Green will do, especially as he means
little to the masses, who for the most
part are unaware either of his first-class
brain or of his long connection with
foreign affairs.
If Sir Winston is no longer a con-
venient Aunt Sally another must be
found. Where better than from the
House of Lords?
Housing in Maoriland
By the boldest stroke in housing policy
since the Socialists began to spend millions
annually in the late ’thirties with the idea
of converting the majority of Maori-
landers into State tenants, the Holland
Government came to light at the be-
ginning of August (just before Mr.
Holland returned from three months’
absence abroad) with a scheme for State-
guaranteed mortgages to bring new
homes within reach of many thousands
of families who couldn’t afford to buy
without this backing. The essence of
the plan was to guarantee the security of
housing loans up to a maximum of £2OOO,
or 90 p.c. of the cost. As most N.Z.
lending institutions stopped at two-thirds
of the valuation, the guarantee meant
an extra £5OO to buyers of £2250 homes.
For the majority of homeless couples it
was the difference between a good chance
and none at all,
Few homeseekers have more than a
few hundreds, which is nearly all swal-
lowed up by the cost of housing-sites.
They haven’t the will to rough it like
the last generation until they get settled,
and for years they’ve been waiting for
State rental houses, while living with
in-laws, which has been anything but a
good start in life. Overnight the guaran-
tee has filled them with new hope and
fanned the little spark of independence
of spirit which still bums deep down in
the hearts of most Maorilanders, even
after many years of State paternalism.
This bid by the Government to restore
its prestige before the next general elec-
tion, late in 1954, aims at giving every-
one worth his salt a stake in the country,
instead of breeding a race of State
tenants. Mr. Holland made a first step
in the right direction three years ago
when tenants in State houses were invited
to buy the places. So far nearly 7500
have grabbed the chance. Although
they’ve had to pay £ls| million, there’s
(Continued On next page )


See the “Farmers’ Boy” exhibit at Clutterbucks’
Machinery Display, Royal Adelaide Show.
mmmm
'i ■ ■ ''
-g-vj
F/i« “Farmers’ Boy” with Rotary Hoe attached
“FARMERS’ BOY” Series II: Mark XII U h.p. Villiers Engine.
Standard Equipment: 3 Cultivating teeth. 2 hoeing blades, 10m.
Tool-bar, 3 universal standards, and power take-off.
Price F.0.R., Port Adelaide, £124/18/9.
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
“FARMERS’ BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit for Almost Every Purpose
Rotary Scythe.
Paspalum guillotined t
r
Plough
Lawnmower
DISTRIBUTORS
y S.lf. ■ GRAZCOS Co.-op. Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney.
Victoria: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd, 90
rvinriri • ‘RT T 7 A fOMand) Ltd.# 443 Adelaide St.,
|.4 BROS/ Ltd., 61-63 Bindley St.. Adelaide.
W.A. and Tasmania: Distributors to be appointed.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Generator
Cutter Bar
Other attachments include:
SPRAYER. COMPRESSOR for inflating
tyres, spray-painting, etc.,
TRAILER, SAWBENCH, DUSTER,
MILKING MACHINE AND
HARROWS.
DISC
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your State Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “FARMERS
BOY” and ACCESSORIES.
NAME
ADDRESS
a good margin in their favor, and they’re
sitting comfortably, thanks to the most
liberal terms ever offered to house-buyers
in N.Z., with prices from £l7OO to £2500
for homes which could be sold for at
least a thousand more if offered on the
market today.
Although the State is still building at
the rate of about 3000 houses a year,
the bias today is all towards private
enterprise, which is putting up homes at
a rate of more than 13,000 annually, and
might reach a figure of 17,000 next year.
To catch up with arrears and keep pace
with population, N.Z. will need 20,600
new homes yearly. The average
space will be only about 950 square feet,
against 1250 square feet for the average
old-fashioned home, but will be enough
for three bedrooms, roomy living-quarters
and all that’s needed for health and com-
fort.
Delays have been at the root of much
of the inflation in housing costs, and New
Zealand will have to reinforce weak
sections of the building trade by bringing
in more bricklayers, plasterers, plumbers,
painters, and, perhaps, carpenters. Once
the ranks are filled output per man
should go up, too. Nothing has slowed
down building and boosted costs more
than the feeling among the men that
they can set their own pace and don’t
have to worry about losing their jobs.
Along with this, weekend and overtime
work at fancy rates has been a racket.
A ticklish point is whether the extra
funds to finance demands under the
guarantee will come from sound sources
or partly from watering-down credit;
but the Government, in spite of its present
over-reliance on cheap money, is keen to
give its plan a fair run by avoiding
monetary monkey-tricks.
POLITICAL POINTS
The day after the N. S. Wales Parlia-
ment awoke from its long sleep a Can-
berra jet-bomber flew from Melbourne
to Colombo (5780 miles) in 16 hours 41
minutes. Two days later it flew 7020
miles from Colombo to Christchurch
(N.Z.), then back to Melbourne. A
second bomber made a round-trip
Melbourne - Darwin - Perth-Christchurch-
Melboume. While all this was going on
a ship was resolutely ploughing her way
through the Red Sea, bringing Cahill and
Treatt home from the Coronation celebra-
tions which finished more than two
months ago.
• •
Last Friday’s star bargain at the sweets-
counter of a Sydney chain-store; 16
ounces of coconut-ice for Is.
• •
Urging the Prime Minister to increase
the Commonwealth grant to the univer-
sities, Victorian Premier Galvin tried some
diplomatic soft-soap. Melbourne “Argus”
reported him as saying, “Look what the
Melbourne University has done for Aus-
tralia. It has given us you, sir.” Bob
might have been convinced by the argu-
ment had Melbourne been the only seat
of learning affected, but, after all, he
could hardly be expected to reward
Sydney Uni. for “giving us” Bert.
• •
Economist H. V. Evatt (graduate of
the Jock Garden Tutorial School of
Economics) has discovered that ruling
rates of interest are exorbitant and must
be reduced considerably. He told a meet-
ing in the Lang electorate that
certain quarters saw to it that money was
not forthcoming for Government loans in
order to get higher rates of interest.
Does this mean that if he becomes Prime
Minister he will lower the interest-rate
and introduce forced loans?
• •
After hesitating for a long, long time
the Victorian L.C.P. executive has ex-
pelled the seven Hollway rebels. Hollway
himself had already been expelled from
the Parliamentary L.C.P., and Dawnay-
Mould has been out of Parliament since
he lost Dandenong at the last election,
but Don, Dennett, Tovell, Gartside and
MacLeod were, until last Thursday, en-
titled to attend meetings of the Parlia-
mentary party, though they had con-
sistently refused to do so without their
leader. The expulsions mean that the
L.C.P. will no longer be the largest
numerical group on the Opposition
benches ; McDonald’s Country party now
becomes the official Opposition.
Hollway is talking of forming a new
Liberal party, to be called the Victorian
Liberal party.
• •
Ever tried mashed oranges, baked
oranges, boiled oranges or lovely hot
crisp orange-chips? Melbourne house-
wives are probably trying them all at
this very moment, having read this
advertisement in the “Age”:
housewives. No Potatoes? —Then Buy
More oranges!
The advertisement isn’t signed, so it’s
anyone’s guess whether it is inserted by
the Potato Board, the Orange Board or
the Association for the Prevention of
Scurvy.
British medical experts are reported as
saying that artificially-fed babies thrive
best. This certainly seems to be true of
the inflation-baby left on Menzies’s door-
step by “Labor” in 1949.
• •
If domestic tiffs are a true sign of a
happy family, N. S. Wales “Labor” must
be the tops in felicity. On Friday the
Transport Workers’ Union cancelled the
membership of J. T. Kane, assistant
general secretary of the N.S.W. branch
of the A.L.P. and secretary of the A.L.P.
industrial-groups. Charges: secretly
running a “group” after it had been dis-
banded and participating in the issue of
how-to-vote tickets at a Labor Council
election. It was also announced on Fri-
day that T. A. Sherley, endorsed “Labor”
candidate for Mackellar at next year’s
Federal election, had resigned through
disagreement with “Labor” policy. In his
letter of resignation Sherley spoke of the
feeling of discomfort caused him by “the
lpfVKV\oj,
**Ss*%s.
"SPARE A BOB, MISTER?"
succession of public scandals involving,
very often, members of the Labor party.”
He also objected to the appointment of
defeated members of Parliament to the
public payroll.
• •
Fulminating against the Government
for daring to consider selling the Com-
monwealth shipping line, Dr. Evatt told
a Colac (Vic.) audience of other instances
of “gross undervalue” in the selling of
“the peoples’ assets.” Included in his
list were the A.W.A. shares which the
Menzies Government disposed of in
1951. “Gross undervalue” seems to be
a gross misunderstanding, or a gross mis-
statement. The shares were sold at 455.
They were quoted last week on Sydney
Stock Exchange at 30s.
• •
O’Halloran, Opposition-leader in S.
Australia, is trying to get a bill through
the Adelaide Parliament designed to alter
a voting system which, he claims, results
in non-“ Labor” parties winning with less
than a majority of total votes. He had
better not ask Queensland’s Premier Gair
to speak in support of his proposals.
• •
On no subject is the practice of Aus-
tralia’s “Labor”-Socialists so much at
variance with their principles as in their
approach to gambling: “Labor” and
lotteries are almost synonymous. One
of the basic tenets of Socialism is that
excess wealth should be drawn off from
the few for the benefit of the many. The
effect of a lottery (drawn at the rate of
one a day in N. S. Wales) is to collect
money from the many and give it to the
few. Every “Labor” State except Vic-
toria runs a lottery, and the Galvin
Government intends to “complete the
chain” within a matter of weeks,
• •
During the term of office of the
McLarty Liberal Government in Wes-
tralia the “big” two-up game in Kal-
goorlie was forced to close down. Run-
ning true to “Labor”-Socialist form, the
present Perth “Labor” Government has,
through the medium of its Minister for
Justice, declared the action to be “a very
grave injustice,” because the swy-game on
the goldfield was “a part of the life of
the community.” No doubt the latter
part of this statement is true, in the same
sense that it is true that s.p.-betting is
a part of the life of the community in
most Australian towns. But surely
“Labor” can offer its supporters some-
thing better than two-up, ponies, dogs
and lotteries?
• •
An indication of how the slow turn-
round of ships keeps freight-rates and
consequently prices up is shown by an
example quoted by Senator McLeay. On
a trip from Hobart to Brisbane and back
a cargo vessel recently earned £23,482.
Its expenses for the voyage were £23,845,
leaving a net loss of £363. Watersiders
share of the pay-out was £11,212, and the
round-trip took 33 days, of which time
by far the greater portion was spent
alongside the wharf.
• •
A glance at Sydney newspapers these
days gives the impression that Sydney-
siders are the world’s most litigious race.
Among the items grabbing the headlines
last week and fighting for front-page
space were:
A police-sergeant appealing against his dismissal
after having his evidence described by a
District Court judge as “a wicked and dastardly
lie”; an inquest on a woman believed to have
been poisoned with thallium and in connection
with whose death another woman has been
charged with murder, same woman being also
charged with three other murders and three
attempted murders; a case in which a woman
is charged with administering poison to her
son-in-law with intent to murder him, said
woman being herself at present in hospital
suffering from thallium poisoning; an inquiry
into allegations that two public servants have
acted improperly in connection with building-
contracts; a dispute whether his natural mother
or his adoptive mother should have possession
of a child; a charge that police wrongfully
arrested a man for drunkenness when he was,
in fact, suffering from a diabetic blackout.
Then, of course, the report of the
Doyle Inquiry can be expected before
long, and Judge Maxwell should be back
from Europe with his Liquor Inquiry
report almost any day now.
• •
The New England New-State Move-
ment is holding its seventh convention on
Thursday and Friday. Scene: Tamworth
(N.S.W.). Agenda: A constitutional con-
vention ; Federal, State and local-govern-
ment relationships; finance for public
works ; rural development; decentralisa-
tion ; local government in a new State.
Advocates of self-government for New
England have not received much official
encouragement, but they’re an optimistic
lot who are determined to keep on trying.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Dash”; They say in Moscow that it’s
really quite easy to understand the con-
troversy between the Morgan-Mendel
theory of heredity in genetics, universally
accepted in the non-Communist world,
and the Soviet scientist Lysenko’s official
dogma about the sole influence of
environment. If a child is similar in
appearance to his father it is a clear
proof that the parents are of the Morgan-
Mendelian type of backward reactionaries.
If, however, the child resembles the
lodger it proves that the parents are pro-
gressive and adhere to Lysenko’s true
materialistic teaching that environment is
the ultimate influence.
❖ ❖
“Piper”: The dangers of accepting
visual evidence could well be demon-
strated in Sydney, where, other indica-
tions aside, a new arrival might be
pardoned for thinking that the climate
was Arctic. For instance, there are the
houses —common in almost every suburb
and to each architectural decade—con-
structed with steeply-pitched roofs the
better to shed heavy accumulations of
snow. There are other homes which be-
come so freezingly cold that thoughtful
builders have provided enormous fire-
places where a whole log can be burned
efficiently. And there are the ladies who,
on an admittedly freak August day when
the temperature reached 71 degrees, did
not appear unduly uncomfortable in
their fur-coats and boots, fur-lined,
proofed against snow and provided with
treads for the better negotiation of
slippery iced-over footpaths.
$
“X.S.”: They’re mechanising taste
now. A firm of South Australian
vignerons have invented an ingenious
gadget which tells what wines to serve
with what food at what temperature, etc.
It consists of two circles of cardboard
fastened to one another so that one
rotates above the other. You set the top
circle at white meats, fish, steak, roasts,
chops, game or what-have-you, and then
read the list of beverages suitable for
such occasions.
❖ * ❖
“Kelvin”: Seemingly the boys who
wrote the recruiting-publicity in the days
of Good Queen Vic (B. 29/7/’53) were
uninhibited by brasshat sur-
veillance, so it is surprising that
they refrained from mention of
the perks which came the way
of Private Thomas Atkins. One
such was the fee to be earned
as escort for nurse-girls and
other lasses willing to pay a
“walking-out” retainer. The
fees varied according to the
social ranking of the regiments,
the elegance of the uniforms
and the rank of the wearers.
A warrior on leave might
promenade for some time in ex-
hibition of his wares, while
romantic wenches deliberated
whether they could afford a
guardsman or a swaddi© for
their Sunday afternoon. Custom
dictated that the hired escort
should spend a certain amount
of his retainer on entertaining
his hirer, which had certain advantages
and also certain disadvantages in that a
high-priced and gallant escort could, in
the course of an hour or so in a public-
house environment, change from a solid
asset to a liquid liability.
♦> ❖
“Mem”: Sleeping on duty (B.
5/8/’53)? In the labor-ward at women’s
hospital one duty of the nursing staff is
a frequent check-up of unborn baby’s
heart-beat. Listening is supposed to be
done per medium of a trumpet-shaped
instrument placed against the mother’s
abdomen, but the usual practice is to
apply an ear direct. One patient, becom-
ing alarmed at the inordinate time the
night-nurse stayed pillowed, as it were,
discovered that she’d gone to sleep.
♦♦♦ <♦ ♦;«
“An Chaidh”: Must dispute “Mus-
keen’?” assertion (B. 29/7/’53) that the
surname Hay is not Gaelic. It is derived
from “chaidh,” a type of cattle-fold, just
as the Gordons and the Keiths take their
names from other types of cattle-folds,
“gorton” and “cuith.” The whole three
are Scottish place-names; the heir-desig-
nate of clan Hay is Lord Hay. Chaidh
is also a terminology of place-names in
Eire, e.g., Finnachaidh; and occurs in
such names as Eochaidh in some of the
earliest Irish romances. Rennie in his
" I entered the wife one year —in a beauty competition."
In the Steps of the Clansmen gives clan
Hay a Pictish origin and therefore Gaelic.
Furthermore, the family was not founded
by William de Haya; two centuries
earlier the Hays were going strong in
Scotland. Far from beginning in William
the Lion’s time, the clan Hay will in
1961 celebrate its thousandth year as
a clan. The Hays should not be classed
with those upstart foreigners hke the
MacCraes, Frazers, Menzies Sinclairs
and Stewarts, of whom.have. been
m Scotland only eight hun y .
❖ * *
“Sebak”: My newspaper informs me
that Christian Dior has pulled off
BANK Qp
another coup and again filled his rival
fashion-designers with frustration and
chagrin. The first time his “razor-keen
brain” erupted its brilliance, I am in-
formed, the New Look was born, and
feminine hemlines crept considerably
closer to the ground. But six months
ago, on the French Riviera, he con-
ceived the idea that was destined to burst
on the fashion world like a bombshell.
It’s all very exciting, of course, but as a
layman I’m a little worried at my
inability to see why his rivals were caught
napping. There seem to be just three
things he could have done in the matter
of hemlines: leave ’em alone, raise ’em
or lower ’em. He’d already lowered ’em
—so!
♦♦♦ ♦> ❖
“Melbn”: Tell “Mabsout” (B.
5/8/’53), who wonders where the old-
time bloodthirsty anarchists and hell-
roaring religious fundamentalists who
used to rant and rave on Melbourne’s
Yarra-bank have gone, that he’ll find ’em
watching the Russian films shown in the
various little theatres. It is rather ironic
that these films, intended to enlighten
Australians about Russia, attract audi-
ences which are nine-tenths Russians,
Jews and other Europeans. Among the
remaining one-tenth are these already
converted old-time bloodthirsty an-
archists, etc.
$ ❖
“Fino”: Keith Michell is not the first
Shakspearian actor to make Hotspur, in
“Henry IV,” stammer over the letter
“w” (B. 5/8/’53). Sir Laurence Olivier
did the same thing in a London Old Vic.
production of the play in September,
1945. It would be interesting to know
whether he, in his turn, copied an earlier
actor, or whether there is some historical
justification for the interpretation.
& * ❖
“T.S.H.”: The drift of the freighter
Arkaba in the Bight recalls the remark-
able drift of the New Zealand Shipping
Company’s steamer Waikato, in the
Southern ocean in 1899. Commanded by
Capt. T. S, Weston, the Waikato, a single-
screw vessel, was on a voyage from
London to New Zealand. After leaving
Cape Town on June 5, her propeller-shaft
broke in the stern-tube, where it was
impossible to repair at sea. Then began
the record drift, graphically described
by Conrad in his Mirror of the Sea. The
vessel drifted helplessly for over one hun-
dred days, until, on September 15,
the steamer Aslonn appeared and took
her in tow, eventually reaching Fremantle
roads on October 9. It was estimated
that the Waikato drifted 4500 miles
Conrad wrote “The track she had made
when drifting, while her heart stood still
within her iron ribs, looked like a tangled
thread on the white paper of the chart.”
“Kelms”: Drifting freighter Arkaba
j s f onc jiy remembered by four airmen
wbo were pi c k ec j U p f rom a small Air
Force d Decemberj 1942 . After
thirty . four hours to the drink _ , he dinghs
wasn’t quite holding its own and none
of the occupants was feeling really
comfortable, when the watch on the pass-
ing Arkaba heard their calls. Picking
them up wasn’t a picnic in that shark-
infested area, with the chance of a Jap
sub. being around, but the crew took a
chance and provided enough light for
the job. Don’t know what other episodes
Arkaba took part in, but at least four
men were thinking of her as she steered
herself through one of the roughest seas
in the world.
“Muskeen”: If it is true that 3D films
show up artificial aids to beauty and
form, some of the Hollywood stars will
no doubt go into retirement. That’s
what happened when talkies arrived, and
good-lookers but bad speakers sank into
oblivion. John Gilbert, a silent glamor-
star, made only one talkie. It was a
princess-and-peasant type of film, and
I’ll never forget him informing the
heroine, in a pronounced nasal twang,
that he “was raised on black bread and
goat’s milk.”
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“K.R.”: Why the concern because
people prefer to say “air-o-plane” and
not “a-er-o-plane” (B. 12/8/’53)? No
harm is thereby done to the language,
nor does it grate on the ear. “O. I. Saye”
should heed Fowler’s view that, “while
we" are entitled to display a certain fas-
tidious precision in our saying of words
that only the educated use, we deserve
not praise but censure if we decline to
accept the popular pronunciation of
popular words.” Oxford English
Dictionary recognises this, and, while
noting “a-er-o,” prefers “air-o.” I hope
that “aerogramme,” if the term is intro-
duced, will be given the logical pronun-
ciation.
“Fairf”: He was obviously a stranger
in our town ; after inquiring the way, he
asked in a puzzled voice: “Is some sort
of quaint festival being celebrated in this
place?” I didn’t understand. “Well,”
he said, “why is every second woman or
child carrying a seagrass mat and a
millet-broom?” I followed his gaze
down the main street. Millet-brooms
were everywhere ; they were being carried
at the short-trail, long-trail, high-port
and, in the case of one small boy, at the
slope ; and the mats, only superficially
disguised by a fragment of paper, were
equally represented. With a start I saw
my wife approaching —bearing a happy
smile and both of the articles. “It’ s
unbelievable!” she exclaimed. “These
mats for two-and-eleven and brooms for
five-and-three.” Belatedly, I woke up
Evidently chain-stores really let their
heads go on opening-day in a new
town.
THE ORDER OF THE BATH
“The Local Government Department has ruled
that bath-heaters are not essential to public
health and refused a request by Sydney City
Council for extra powers to enforce the repair
or replacement of bath-heaters in houses.”
“Don’t run me a hot bath, mother;
Don’t set the heater alight ;
I’ve decided not to bother
Having a bath tonight.”
“I didn’t ask you to comment.
Tracking-in half the street;
Get into the bath this moment.
Look at those hands and feet!”
“Speak softer. Mom, or discreeter;
The soil is the nation’s wealth.
And the Government says the bath-
heater
Isn’t essential to health.”
“Get into the bath this minute.
‘The Government says !’ My, my !
There’s a type of mud, you roll in it,
And bath-heaters wouldn’t apply.”
“Oh, mother, be more judicial;
Make an effort to understand —
They’re the words of a higher-official
Expounding the law of the land.”
“Dear son, I am shamed by your chiding ;
In future I’ll do as I’m told —
Get in, or I’ll give you a hiding;
From now on, you’ll take your baths
cold.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Rose C.”: When I was nineteen I was
living on our selection on the Burnett
river (Q.), In a passed-on copy of The
Bulletin I read with delight of one of
the Rudd boys practising dancing alone
in the clearing and bowing to the stumps.
That must have been about 1899. The
story so tickled me that I read it aloud
to the rest of the family, and after that
we kept a lookout for more Steele Rudd
stories. Re-reading the old stories will
remind me of the fun we had, as on the
day we couldn’t find Old Dick, our
plough-horse, and my brother pulled the
plough—a light one —while my sister and
I took turns at trying to keep the nose
of it in the stony patch we were starting
to turn into a vegetable-garden.
* ❖
“Billy S.”: One of the hazards of my
daily round is a crop of chilblains on
the little finger of my right hand. As
winter wears on and I proceed with my
interminable postings on icy-cold ledger-
sheets I am often reminded of the real
live lord who, once upon a time, was
my next-door neighbor in England.
Nearly next door, anyway. When that
belted earl received his breakfast each
morning in went the morning paper as
Well. But not the screwed-up, oft-times
pulpy mass you and I pick up in the
morning from the mangled azalea bush
in the front garden. After his paper had
been thrown over the moat and across
the wall into the castle courtyard, it was
reverently carried down below, where
one of the minions did it over with a
hot flat-iron, carefully removing all
creases and perhaps, more important,
“hotting up” the news to a nice blood-
heat. Hot from the press had real mean-
ing for that scion of the nobility.
“Lord Luvus”: When Lud Mayor
Connelly first mooted getting the Olympic
Games for Melbourne he stated that if
they were held there and the city didn’t
prepare for the cosmopolitan influx by
becoming a bit cosmopolitan itself it
would cover itself with shame and
ignominy. He proposed opening hotels
on week-days from noon until 10.30 p.m.,
with an interval from 2.30 p.m. to 4 p.m.,
and allowing theatres and well-conducted
dance-halls to function on Sunday after-
noons and evenings; there were also
some murmurs of open-air cafes with
wine-licences, after the Paris fashion.
Connelly was promptly jumped on with
both feet by the anti-liquor interests.
Now Premier Cain, as timorous on this
burning question as his predecessors, pro-
poses to submit it to a referendum in
which the Bacchanalians won’t be
organised and the Cold Tea-ites will —
with a “No”-vote a foregone conclusion.
♦j-
“R. Volt”: I passed out on a lone
night-shift at the old Banyuwangi cable-
station. Four hours later a Javanese
opas walked in from the Dutch post-
office with a message asking what the
devil was the matter. The message had
travelled on the Overland to Adelaide,
thence via Perth, Cocos, Capetown,
London, Suez, Madras and Singapore to
Batavia, where it was passed on to the
native landlines to Banyuwangi. A de-
mand from London for an explanation
got a reply from the superintendent that
an electrical disturbance had necessi-
tated the earthing of all cables. It was
a still, calm night, but the supe had
thrown a wonderful party. '
♦♦♦ ►> ❖
“Muskeen”: Lord Lovat was not im-
prisoned in Newgate (B. 29/7/’53), but
was lodged, executed and buried in the
Tower of London. Just before his execu-
tion a scaffolding collapsed, killing several
people, at which the eighty-year-old peer
sardonically remarked “The more
damage, the better sport.” His tip to the
executioner was a purse of ten guineas,
accompanied with the admonition “Pray
do your work well, for if you should
cut and hack my shoulders, I should be
very angry.” Long after his death there
survived a living monument to him in
his own country —a man of great age,
who had let his beard grow uncut from
the fatal day onward.
❖ ♦♦♦
“Ceg”: Coming home from World
War I, 800 of us embarked at Plymouth
and were each paid £8 trip-money. Some,
no doubt, had other cash as well, and
between the lot of us we probably had
over £7OOO. We hadn’t been at sea for
more than a week when the canteen-
sergeant reported that his goods were not
selling. Most of the cash was in the
hands of the four from Westralia
who had a monopoly of the two-up
schools, housey, crown-and-anchor and
other devices for making money easily,
To help the canteen a system of chits
was introduced, to be taken out of the
next pay. Gambling came to an end
when the cash gave out, but the Sand-
gropers then started auction-sales of
souvenirs. German field-glasses, etc., went
f or a song, mainly to the auctioneers or
t be j r dummies, and the sellers then pro-
ceeded to hand back the money per
medium of the crown-and-anchor boards,
When these merchants,,,were satisfied they
ba d cleaned-up the ship the cash was
lodged in the purser’s safe. Came Fre-
mantle, where they were due to disem-
bark, but hearing that the rest of us for
Eastern States were to have another pay
there, they asked to be discharged in
Sydney. The request was turned down
flat, and the last we saw of them was
going down the gangway humping their
booty in a kit-bag.
♦♦♦ +!♦
“Fraoch Eilean”; Sidelight on yet
another famous figure in Scottish history
—Jennie Geddes, who, filled with
Covenanting fire, hurled her stool at the
head of the Bishop who first used in
"John! You've forgotten to kiss me!"
Edinburgh Cathedral the Prayer Book
prescribed by Charles I’s bishops. Though
not possessing the same burning convic-
tion as the lady in matters theological,
the account of the episode in my school
history-book impressed me as a moment
of high drama, I now learn, through the
Pelican History of Seventeenth Century
England, that it possessed the elements
of low comedy. Mistress Geddes, though
inspired by the best of intentions, was
no better than any of the rest of her
sex when it came to heaving a missile ;
she not only missed her target, but came
perilously close to clocking the Dean.
I’m sure, however, that the dour Calvin-
ists who later discussed the matter over
their wine would in no way attribute
the escape of the “Malignants” to the
inherent weakness of feminine marks-
manship—it would simply be another
case of the De’il looking after his ain.
❖ ❖
“Nakh”: Those lasses who advertise
lingerie fallals (B. 5/8/’53) wear dead-
pan expressions for the same reason that
the Folies Bergeres “nudes” were made
to stand or recline in a sort of deep-freeze
and with expressions on their faces as if
their left hands didn’t know what their
right hands were doing.
♦♦♦ <£♦
“Chevroford”: Electric-trams being
contemplated for Melbourne’s Bourke-
street, the double-decker buses which
have been perambulating that crowded
thoroughfare since the cable-trams were
disconnected will soon be on offer to
the public, and some have already been
picked up at prices from £250 to £3OO.
No doubt they will follow the cable-
trams to allotments outside the outer
suburbs. A few of the old cable-trams
are still in residential occupation. A
married couple in the Western District
live in one equipped with e.l. and all
mod.-cons. They have a fine modern
home, too, but only open it when guests
come.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Manboll”; When our R.A.A.F.
bomber made a late and unscheduled
touchdown near Colombo a duty pilot
directed us to the mess, where a sleepy
Ceylonese steward, instead of departing
to bring us nourishment, monotonously
uttered the mystic word Chiplees. Our
navigator, Shorty, a world-citizen who
for too long had held us spellbound with
tales of his global peregrinations, ex-
plained that, because of our unscheduled
arrival, chiplees was the only item of
food available, but he could vouch for
the excellence of the dish. So we plumped
for chiplees, but our decision merely
roused the steward from somnolence to
dancing rage. We were still trying to
fathom his attitude when the duty-pilot
came in with a stack of mess-chits. Then
only did it occur to us that the suddenly
pacified steward had merely been asking
us to produce “chits, please.” For the
next hour. Shorty, our world-citizen, was
strangely silent.
“Geordie”: A well-known Sydney
dance-hall, from Monday to Friday the
mecca of the white-tie-and-tails, is thrown
open every Sat’dee to the hoi polloi. They
roll up in their hundreds, tiptoe through
the foyer over a carpet that must have
cost someone a mint of money and make
their way to the ballroom floor, where
they cut their capers to their heart’s con-
tent. - Because of the carpet, chewing-
gum, with its own pretty parking prob-
lem, is frowned upon. The other Sat’dee
a dashing young blood turned up at the
counter where cigarettes (in season)
sweets, etc., are sold and asked for a
packet of “P.K.s.” He was politely told
“We don’t sell them. We have carpets
here.” Whereupon the young fellow
replied “0.K., gimme a packet o’ them.”
♦♦♦ +♦♦ +>
“Bannon”: In the interests of closer
unity between their various armies,
most Commonwealth countries maintain
officers overseas on exchange duties. This
laudable aim recently looked like coming
to grief when one of our majors rang a
British major stationed here and said in
the course of conversation, “Capt. Bridie
will fix it for you.” “Who?” “Capt.
Bridie.” “Oh, yes. Capt. Brady.” “No
—not Brady—Bridie!” “That’s what I
said—Brady!” “Bridie, man —not Brady
— Bridie b-r-i-d-i-e ! ” “Oh awfully
sorry, old chap—thought for a moment
you were speaking with that famous
Australian accent!”
* ♦ ❖
“Harbel”: Like many other Bulletin
scribes, I have often pondered on the
identity of the mysterious writer of the
word “Eternity” which, in copperplate
calligraphy, is chalked on a hundred
Sydney pavements. I have imagined him
as a tall, raw-boned, saintly-looking old
gent, with long, flowing hair and full,
soft beard. The other day I saw a figure
chalking on the footpath. What an anti-
climax! He was short and fat, and the
broad seat which was presented in my
direction was clothed in dirty white
pants. He stood up, showing a red, clean-
shaven face under a felt hat. Shaken,
I looked down at his work in passing, to
verify what I could scarcely believe.
Then the world settled back on its
normal axis again. The words were, in
uncopperplately hand, “Wet Paint” —-
he’d just painted a couple of yellow lines
to indicate the position for a bus-queue.
EMPHATIC PROVISO
“Widow, middle-aged, cheerful, affectionate
disposition, small means, likes ,
trots, would meet m.-a. gent, (not widow )
same tastes.” —Agony ad.
It’s time, she’s decided.
That some male provided
Once more for her various needs;
Double-harness she misses,
The conjugal kisses —
She’s just about “had” widow’s weeds.
In the region of forty
She’s still rather sporty —
On wowser, you’d say, she’d not fix.
She’ll cook him his dinners
Who’ll help her pick winners
And take her along to the flicks.
A merry eye gleaming,
A face ever beaming,
A modest collection of dough ;
Affection she’ll scatter
And dolors she’ll shatter —
O, gifts without price to bestow.
Much fierce competition
To gain acquisition
Of such a pearl, make such a match
Must soon be ensuing;
Just watch ’em all queueing.
But—hey ! Not so fast; there’s a catch !
She’s made the position
Quite clear: no audition
For those who’ve been hitched up
before.
It could be she’s fearing
Comparisons searing;
Recitals of virtues she wore.
More likely this struck her:
She’d rather a sucker
Whose knowledge of marriage was nix
Than one who might, pronto.
Show he was well on to
All subtle connubial tricks.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“The Greatest Name
in the
Battery World”
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTT. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Early next year the 8.8. C. is to in-
augurate a news-service by television,
hitherto untried in Europe. A New
Zealander, Tahu Hole, editor and con-
troller of the 8.8. C. news-services, will
boss the scheme, which will present the
news on television, illustrated by films
and still-photos. Hole started journalising
on the Christchurch “Press,” switched to
the Auckland “Herald” and before head-
ing 8.8. C.-wards was for a time on The
Bulletin.
Here is Charlie Anderson, international
representative and a director of the
’Frisco firm which produces that Pooh-
Bah machine called the Shopsmith,
claimed to be a complete home-workshop
on four legs. Invented by a German
Doctor of Philosophy from Berlin Uni-
versity, Hans Goldschmidt, who crossed
to the U.S. in 1937 and got a good
grounding in short-cuts while working at
the Kaiser shipyards (War II Liberty
ships in four days), the Shopsmith can
do just about everything with wood- and
metal-work. Started in 1948, the Magna
SHOPSMITHS
Corporation has sold a multitude of the
machines in America, and believes the
tool will be particularly useful in Aus-
tralian backyard workshops, farms,
cabinet-making shops and so forth —
hence Anderson. A Harvard man, war-
time lieut.-commander in the U.S.N. at
28, Anderson has for associates men from
the same university, and calls the boss the
Old Man —Goldschmidt being a com-
paratively hoary 41. His claim on the
Shopsmith’s versatility seems pretty well
substantiated —the thing even produces
itself. There are 60 of them in the factory
busily procreating little Shopsmiths.
“Macnell”: If it’s true that a sailor always
leaves a bit of himself behind when he leaves
a ship, there will be more than iron and steel
lost when valiant old Shropshire goes to the
knockers—some of our best-known senior naval
officers fought her. And she was almost con-
stantly in action. John Collins was her first
Australian captain, and he had for gunnery-
officer Warwick Bracegirdle—a gunnery-jack
under a gunnery-jack, so it’s little wonder she
was one of the most efficient gunnery ships in
the Pacific, and, if a Presidential citation from
the White House means anything, possibly the
most efficient in radar. Harold Farncomb later
had her bridge, William (“Harpo”) Marks her
guns; navigator G. G. O. Gatacre (who came
to her from three British battleships and who
saw the Bismarck go) was her Staff Officer
Operations, navigator David Harries, later cap-
tain of cruiser Australia, her first executive-
officer, 2 i./c. under Collins, lan Hunter
McDonald, now captain of brand-new destroyer-
cruiser Tobruk, learnt his seamanship in her
before the war, Jack Mesley (promoted captain
last month, and c.o. of Tobruk and Anzac
before that) joined her after the Canberra sank,
and saw her eight-inchers bellow at Lingayen,
Wewak, Labuan and Balikpapan. James
( Copper”) Morrow, a destroyerman who belted
a Jap submarine to death outside Moresby,
was her executive-officer when her muzzle-covers
were replaced, and Henry Showers, rear-admiral,
her captain at the height of her activity, in 1944,
inese will remember her.
James Stuart, a Scot from Inverness,
took the cake for cake-icing from
Queensland’s women at the Brisbane
Show, as well as collecting second-prize
in the novelty-cake class. The women-
beater, in Australia two years, has
travelled extensively, through France,
Belgium, Holland and Germany—driving
a tank belonging to the Scots Guards.
A prize awarded every four years by
the Royal Society of Edinburgh—the
Gunning Victoria Jubilee Prize —goes
this year to an Enzedder of Dunedin,
Professor A. C. Aitken, F.R.S., now of
Edinburgh University Department of
Mathematics. “Swatty” Aitken (as
known when a youth in Dunedin) was
dux of Otago B.H.S. in 1912, gained his
honorary D.Sc. from the University of
N.Z. in 1943, and, a couple of years
ago, from the University of Glasgow,
an honorary LL.D. Renowned for his
prodigious memory, Aitken, a Kiwi of
the Kaiser’s war, knew the name and
address of every man of his platoon, the
number of his rifle his next-of-kin.
His feats in mathematical calculation
are a legend among his colleagues.
A record which equals some of those
of the skippers of Sydney ferries has been
made by J, N. Rawlings, who’s had 45
years’ continuous service on the electric
tram that runs to and fro between
Brighton (Vic.) and St. Kilda, along the
seashore. He brings variety into his life
by sitting on the Court of Petty Sessions.
Diversity of interest has been the life-
theme of Eric Bedford, presented here by
Such. Setting Out to do mining-engineer-
ing at the Melbourne School of Mines,
he left that for the Territory, beche-de-
mer fishing; was attracted by a gold-
rush to north Queensland, went on to
provincial editorship in Cairns and Too-
woomba ; and ended up in journalism
and playwriting in Sydney. Plays from
his pen include “The Pendulum,” a life
of Shakspeare called “The Queen’s
Player,” and a satire on Australian
politics, “The Golden Vote.” Shifting to
another entertainment medium, he made
documentary-films for the Commonwealth
and N.S.W. Governments, for 10 years,
his “The Bushman Goes Home” and “To
Far Horizons” receiving high praise
abroad. For the past five years he’s been
concentrating on the development of
canna fibre, which he pioneered in 1948.
Finding that the fibre can be grown and
CANNAS
manufactured near sugar-mills in the off-
season, he’s now negotiating with north
Queensland mills to use their plant
between December and July. Son
of Randolph Bedford, Eric reckons
he’ll have one literary “first” —some
of his plays are to be published on
paper made from his canna fibre.
When at the end of the war Hamburg
fell into British hands, the occupation
authorities immediately set to work to
scotch Goebbels’s propaganda that any
Allied occupation would mean the end
of German culture. To that end they
decided to create a symphony orchestra
for the German radio on the lines of the
8.8. C. Hans Schmidt-Isserstedt, who
had been conductor of the Berlin Muni-
cipal Opera House until its destruction
under Allied bombs, was invited to be-
BATONS
come the new orchestra’s first conduc-
tor ; he combed Germany for players,
and so successful was his work on them
that he quickly built the orchestra into
one of the finest in Europe. Schmidt-
Isserstedt is now touring Australia for
the A.B.C His musicianship is sound
enough to allow him to dispense with
meretricious and spectacular methods,
but his placidity has no dampening effect
on his vigor. Born in Berlin at the turn
of the century, he was a child-prodigy
violinist, but in his twenties he abandoned
the bow for the baton. He is also a
graduate of Berlin University, having
notched a Ph.D. degree. A victim of
polio, which left him with a permanent
slight lameness, he finds relaxation from
his work in swimming and sailing. A
son, who has adopted the name of Peter
Smith, is his secretary-interpreter on his
tour. Another son is a Cambridge under-
grad.
New head of Sydney’s Knox Grammar,
John Mill Couper comes south from
three years’ lecturing at Queensland
University. Before that he was with the
Scottish Education Authority. He
obtained a Ph.D. from Aberdeen Univer-
sity, a football-blue, sufficient tennis
skill to play in international matches.
And, from five years in the War II British
Army, a sterner educating which took
him up from private to major.
Knight Joe Totterdell, Perth’s breezy
Lud Mayor, reckoning that 68 is a fair
age for retirement, will shed the chains
of office next November and let some-
one else have a crack at breaking his
record of eight years in the mayoral chair.
Another seat he vacated this year (in-
voluntarily) was that of West Perth in
the Assembly, which he won in 1950,
but lost last February. Landing in Perth
from Manchester 50 years back, he
became a builder and contractor, and
eventually president of the Master
Builders’ Association of Australia.
Before the invention of A. C. Aldis
was accepted by the Royal Navy in 1917
the fleet’s main methods of visual signal-
ling were either by cumbersome, reveal-
ing searchlights or by flag-semaphoring
—which, of course, was useful only by
day. Aldis changed all that. Working
opposite to the principle of a shuttered
searchlight, his small, portable signalling-
lamp, still in general use, shows a con-
tinuous beam to the watcher when the
pistol-grip is pressed. A trigger working
a small reflector, operated by the fore-
finger, cuts off the light-beam and makes
the dots and dashes. The Aldis is visible
as far as a mile in the brightest sunlight,
and up to six miles at night. It enormously
improved the visual signalling of the
world’s navies, and, in the British, is used
pretty well everywhere from a battle-
ship’s bridge to the cockpit of a motor-
boat. The other day, in Dorset (Eng.),
Aldis died. He was 73.
With a helpful background of 12 years
as secretary to the S, Australian Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Alfred Greenham
becomes his State’s Trade Commissioner
and Agent-General in London—with
another 12 years as secretary to the
Agent-General serving handily for the
second barrel of the double job. Fifty -
eight, he was with the Ist A.I.F. in
France, and with the R.A.A.F. in the
Western Desert, Palestine, Tripolitania,
Sicily, Italy and Greece in War II;
rounding-off this comprehensive service
with a period of two years attached to
the headquarters of the Balkan Air Force,
squadron-leader. Born at Quorn (S.A.),
nurtured at Adelaide University.
When The Bulletin called on Jim
McFadden, the vet. admitted that he
was still feeling a bit doped himself —he
having gone through six days and two
nights of the Cromis-Tarien doping-
inquiry. McFadden was there because,
since 1947, he’s been in charge of swab-
bing for the A.J.C. Though he’s recently
taken over from Roy Stewart as the
club’s horse-doctor, he’ll still keep an
eye on swabbing. He keeps, as well,
the Stud Book, that Which’s Which of
Australian horses which can give you the
pedigree, or color, or weight or what-
ever you want to know as far back as
PEDIGREES
1878. A quietly pleasant cove, Mc-
Fadden interrupted his veterinary-science
studies at Sydney University to do his
bit in New Guinea, corporal with the
2/2 Pioneer Battalion, which, as its
recently-published history shows, did
more fighting than engineering. Scrub-
typhus laid him low in the Markham
Valley; with that cleared up he returned
to the ’Varsity, to top his final year.
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 75, George Edward Nicholls,
one-time Professor of Biology in the University
of Westralia. He was a recognised authority
on comparative neurology before he switched
over to an intensive study of the crustacean
and amphibious life of Westralia. He had
published a number of works on these subjects,
and was working on a monograph on Westralian
Crustacea almost up to the end.
At 81, in Melbourne, William Scott Purves
Godfrey, one of Australia’s best-known archi-
tects. His firm won the architectural award
for the Bank of N.S.W. in Collins-street, which
replaced the old bank whose facade was
re-erected at the University.
At Tokaanu, Taranaki (N.Z;), at 108, Tarihira
Mariu, a member of the Ngati-Turangi-Tukau
tribe. Her husband, who died 40 years ago,
was a prominent tribesman, descended from
a paramount chief of the Una Aretoa tribe,
who made a gift of Tongariro National Park
to the nation. Mrs. Mariu had vivid recollec-
tions of the catastrophic Tarawera eruption in
1886 and the rampaging of the outlaw Te
Kooti.


SURPRISE ENCOUNTER AT SYDNEY COVE 150 YEARS AGO
“An animal whose species was never before found in the Colony is in his Excellency’s possession.... The fur that covers it is soft and fine, and of a mixed grey
color; the ears are short and open; the graveness of the visage, which differs little in color from the back, would seem to indicate a more than ordinary portion of
animal sagacity.”—“ Sydney Gazette," August 21, 1803.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Jimmy Beggs had spent
most of the afternoon and a fair part of
the night at the Gol Gol pub with two
cheque-men from up the river. But he
could take it, could Jimmy, and when he
left the pub to go down to his boat he
walked straight and true to the river-
bank, singing some low dirge about
“You’re going to leave the old home,
Jim, today. You’re going away,” got
into his boat, unshipped the oars and
began to pull for the other side. He
pulled strongly for a while, being stimu-
lated by alcohol, and timing the strokes
with his song. Presently he stopped sing-
ing, looked around, muttered something
about the “blarmy current” and set-to
again. It was a pretty dark night, but
he could see enough to know that the
south bank wasn’t getting any closer, and
his river instinct told him something was
wrong. But by this time exertion - and
beer had their way, and James simply
lay down in the boat and went to sleep.
Just after dawn, shivery and longing for
hot tea, he awoke, untied the painter and
set off for home. “Just as well I left the
dam’ thing tied last night,” he told us.
“The way I was pullin’ I’d ha’ bin in
Wentworth be this.”
*.* * ♦
“Warrabulla”: What’s become of the
bush “hatter” these days? Used the term
the other day to a man from the back
country and then had to explain what it
means —or used to mean. I suppose
roads, cars,and radio have swept out of
existence the type who preferred to live
in silent solitude on some lonely one-
man outcamp, resentful of visitors and
dreading the periodic visits of the muster-
ing team to upset his ordered routine.
In some ways the life had its advantages.
If you wanted to talk, you talked to your-
“New Australians , probably .”
self and were sure of having an intelli-
gent listener who wouldn’t interrupt. If
you put a thing down, you knew it would
be there when you next needed it; and,
best of all, you couldn’t get the worst
of it in an argument. Some hatters found
strange ways of amusing themselves. One
I knew swept, every day, the earth in a
wide circle round his hut, then walked
away backwards, sweeping out his own
tracks as he went. Returning in the
evening, he inspected every track—
human, reptilian or animal —on the swept
area, and endeavored to puzzle out what
he or it had done. Nowadays, I suppose,
the same bloke would tune-in to a serial,
or an hour or so of hot jive, or, if he
were really tough, Parliament.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Whale-oil is a popu-
lar fish-lure among amateur fishermen off
the W.A. coast. They soak a small piece
of hessian in the oil, throw it out on a
line, and draw if back to the boat, leav-
ing a widening oil-slick. The fish get
the news on the submarine grapevine and
converge on the streak. But the experi-
enced fisherman uses the lure sparingly.
It affects the flavor of fish that get too
much of it, and herring, and more
particularly garfish, simply gobble
it up. I’ve seen gardies racing
along an oil-slick drinking it
down, and one, caught in the act,
was inedible when cooked 12
hours later.
* * ♦ ♦
“The Missus”: Hitherto Crutch-
ings and Co. have always handled
our wool-marketing, but there’s
to be a change this coming season.
With wool-values in the ascendant
brokerage firms are prospecting
for consignments by sending out
their duplicate-books of waybills
to all who own a few jumbucks.
Crutchings’ envelope of bills,
labels, printed envelopes and what-
have-you tumbled out of the mail-
bag recently. Dad inspected its
contents and commented sourly:
“Getting mean. No carbon-
paper.” Next mail brought
similar material from Locks ’n
Bellies and also from Noil and Co. The
first-named provided a sheet of carbon,
the second lavishly sent us two. Our
wool is destined for L. and B. this year.
Dad’s argument being that Crutchings
are too careful and Noils too wasteful.
Locks, he thinks, strikes, a happy medium.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: A British scientist
thinks he’s found out how pigeons find
their way home —by taking bearings on
the sun. He found that on sunny days
birds that were released 80 miles from
home flew off immediately in the right
direction; on overcast days they started
off at random and fewer found their way
home. He also claims that pigeons kept
in darkened lofts for a week didn’t home
as well as those allowed to see the sun
every day, and that irregular feeding, by
confusing their time-sense, also affected
their homing instinct. His theory is
that they remember the position of the
sun the last time they saw it from the
home-loft, and work out their latitude
from this and their longitude from their
time-sense. Could be, but I dunno. It’s
not so long ago that another scientist
discovered that they had some property
in their plumage which was affected by
the earth’s magnetism, and acted as a
guide. Either of these theories might be
accepted if only pigeons were involved,
but I usually associate homing instinct
with horses. I’ve known a brumby to
travel nearly 200 miles to a home it hadn’t
seen for years and from which it was
taken in a train. Dogs are just as good,
and frogs are reputed to be even better,
An American frog holds the record with
a return-journey of 2000 miles, vouched
for by a fellow-American —also a record-
holder.
* * * *
“I. Askew”: “Narooma” claims (B.
1/7/’53) that brit, and not plankton, is
the favorite food of the whale. The prin-
cipal food of the toothless right whales
is termed krill, shrimp-like crustaceans
of the genus Calanus found in all the
oceans. When full-grown, individuals
attain a length of about 2in.; large
patches of them give a brownish color
“Do you mind posing again , Miss Smith? I haven't
got the vase quite right.”
to the sea. These creatures, along with
many others and including diatoms and
other botanical species which float or
swim at the mercy of tides and currents
within the depth of water penetrated by
light, are collectively termed plankton.
Botanical and animal species are distin-
guished respectively as phyto-plankton
and zoo-plankton. The toothed sperm
whales, on the other hand, subsist mainly
on cuttlefish, including the giant species.
Fish and other creatures form the food
of other and smaller toothed whales, such
as porpoises and dolphins.
* * * *
“S.G.”: It’s been suggested that the
wild-dog problem, becoming increasingly
serious in W.A., could be tackled by
shooting them from helicopters, but I’ll
take a shade of odds the stunt wouldn t
work. When bait-dropping teams are
out they occasionally spot dogs from the
air, but not enough to make shooting
worth while. Stands to reason. The
dingo’s a night-worker. He lays up for
most of the day, and the few that are
out keep near cover. Shooting them is
a science, and the successful dogger
knows things that the new-chum wouldn’t
suspect. His chief enemy is his own
scent or the scent of his clothes. Dogs
will hang around after they’ve seen or
heard human beings, but as soon as they
get a scent of them they’re off. But that
doesn’t mean the dogger needn’t move
quietly. The dogs have keen ears, and
he’s got to get close enough to kill.
Rubber-soled boots help a lot, and so
does woollen clothing, and, as the dogs’
eyesight is also good, clothes should be
uniform in color, and either dark-grey or
brown.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: At last I’d completed
glassing-in the end of the veranda;
arriving home that night (stone-sober) 1
absently attempted my usual short-cut —
and walked slap-bang into the glass,
proving (1) glass is a much harder sub-
stance than is generally realised, (2) a
man’s snozzle is his most southerly ex-
tremity. My spouse, true to form, was
at first filled with concern, then derision.
“But you put it there yourself,” she
pointed out. “Then you go and barge
into it. What a bird-brain!” Next
morning a pair of Jackie Winters flashed
* past my ear, heading for the glass. At the
last possible moment one bird performed
a weird aerobatic antic and changed
direction. The other kept going—to
strike the glass with a whack that should
have telescoped his tail-feathers into his
mouth. He flopped to the ground and
sat there like a six-o’clock drunk. I
was within a foot of picking him up
when he took off and fluttered away to
join his spouse on the fence. I may
be wrong over this, but if she didn’t
call him a “man-brain”—well, she went
through all the familiar actions.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: Because of the deci-
mation of the gannet-breeding colony at
Cat Island near Flinders Is., Bass Strait,
fauna-protection authorities have asked
the Tasmanian Government to provide
a warden there each nesting season. Dr.
D. L. Seventy, of C.S.I.R.O. and of
muttonbird-research fame, on a visit to
the rookery last March, saw only 40 nests
compared with 140 the two previous years.
Also he found washed up near by on
Babel Island the remains of 11 young
gannets and many penguin, carcasses
obviously thrown overboard by “rogue”
fishermen who use the birds for cray-
bait. The fauna authorities’ plea that
Cat Island is the largest and most acces-
sible gannet-rookery in Australian water
is a bit far-fetched, even though the
ornithologist Dudley Le Souef in 1904
estimated the nesting birds then as 2300
in an area 60 yards across, and 25 years
ago I can vouch for half that number
myself. But obviously these fauna blokes
haven’t heard of the boobies at Raine
Island or elsewhere in our north. Any-
way, the Mewstone, Isle du Golfe and
other huge desolate rocks south of Tassie
are the real hatcheries of the masked gan-
nets, and Gould, catching his specimens
on the Actaeons, declared them so in
1839. And today Cat Island is harder
to get to than Tanami. Incidentally, I’ve
seen gannet-nests on Bird Island in Malla-
coota Inlet —half-an-hour’s boat journey
any time from a pub.
* * * ♦
“B. A. Ker”: For years my hound
received his tucker in an old enamelled
bowl at the back of the shed, and,
apparently, was quite satisfied with the
arrangement. Recently, however, for
reasons he alone knows, he has taken to
picking up the bowl in his huge mouth
and, looking like a duck-billed woman,
removing it and contents to a chosen
spot, which may be one or 20 yards
away. The result is, when I blunder out
in the dark with his nightly feed, the basin
is invariably missing. With the saucepan
in my hand I peer and grope. The
hound follows impatiently. I wander in
vain circles. He nudges me, then stands
off and barks. I roar at him and still
search futilely. He hollers in canine
language: “What’s up with you—are
you blind or something? Put it in
the bowl !” But he makes no attempt
to be an intelligent dog and get the thing,
or even lead me to it. About three times
in five I finish up by going back inside
for a light. Then he kicks up heirs
delight because he thinks I’ve taken
his tucker away again. And the worst
of it is, he thinks I’m the idiot I
SOLDIER-CRABS
One on one, three wave-worn rocks
Rest because the low tide lacks
Strength to make the flat base fall.
There I saw a witches’ meeting,
Two hundred hideous old hags knitting
A carpet to lay in a salty pool.
Wondrous colors were woven in
Of amber, brown and red and green,
Edged about with lace of shell.
Part of it was already laid
And looked so soft on which to tread
And so warm in water cool
That I stepped and knew the pain
Of chocolate urchins tatted in
The deepest greenest part of pile.
In rage I shouted out “Begone,”
And crabs, the witches, fled the sun
Into a black and crannied hell.
n.s.w.
ERIC C. ROLLS.


r-rV v vs v
iVe^ 5 ®
G°
&/T,'
om
5®
e*L^
Bsf APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
tc the late KING GEORGE Vi
Tanqueray Gordon & 00. Ltd.
Qua/ify
&tocrmMufcu&e
Goidonls
“BONNINGTON'S
BUNKHOUSE SHOW”!
Featuring such top-line personalities as (from left to right) Noel
“Carrageen” Judd, George “Sassafras” Foster, Reg Lindsay, Leonard
“Kansas Kid” Thiele, Keith “Speed Jordan” Walshe and baritone Neil
Williams, the “Bunkhouse Show” brings you songs and laughs in western
style each week in one of the brightest half hours on Australian radio.
It’s a Macquarie Broadcasting Service feature programme.
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2HR - 2MW - 2LF - 2PK - 2MG - 2WL - 2LT
2CA - 3CV - 4GY - 6WB - 6MD - 6BY - 7LA
pi
y
The
ffliH Broadcasting
“Joziff”: In the book Tito Speaks
several comradely conversations between
Tito and Stalin are recorded. In one
Stalin “recommended that we Yugoslavs
should plant the eucalyptus-tree, that he
would send us seedlings, because the
eucalyptus-tree was the best timber for
shipbuilding. Many years ago he read
a book saying the tree grew in South
America. He had obtained seed from
there and had it sown in the Crimea,
where the tree took excellent root and
grew rapidly.” I regard this as a fine
example of Stalin’s broadmindedness. He
could quite easily have claimed that the
eucalypl was a native of Russia and had
been introduced into the New World by
the great Russian navigators who dis-
covered those lands. All the same, I
understand that it is now mandatory for
all Australian Communists to believe that
the eucalypt is a native of South America.
* * * *
“Spearmaniac”: Sydneysiders who
indulge in spear-fishing have their own
way of putting big fish out of action with
a minimum of fuss (B. 1/7/’53). They
found, when they first began to “tie into”
the big-’uns, that they got into more
strife than they bargained for. The big
fellers invariably set off across the
Pacific, dragging the spearman after them,
often busting his tackle and nearly drown-
ing him in the process. This is still a
fairly common experience, but the intro-
duction of a spear with a broad cutting-
head has tipped the balance slightly in
favor of the man who can use it. The
spearman must aim so that the blade of
the spear will sever the fish’s backbone
and thus paralyse it immediately. And
since the backbones of different species
are differently placed, it takes a lot of
“inside knowledge” to know where to put
the spear. Even when you do know it
still takes a lot of skill to put it there.
f
* * * *
“Sack”; I was interested to learn that
guinea-pigs bred in the C.5.1.R.0.
laboratories drink water (B. 5/8/i’s3),
but can assure “Johnay” that the little
creatures were total abstainers in my
boyhood. Their refusal to drink had me
genuinely worried when I first began to
keep them as pets, but as the months
passed without the water being touched
I realised that it was not necessary, and
removed the container. Thus I can
vouch for the fact that my pigs didn’t
drink water for two years. However,
although they had no lucerne or wet
mash, their fodder included green grass
and milk-thistles, and it would be in-
m*c\
“It's part of th' scheme to make this a garden suburb .”
teresting to know whether the C.5.1.R.0.
guinea-pigs, having learnt to enjoy water,
would spurn it if fed solely on lush vege-
tation.
* * * *
“Mark-Three Star”: If “Swelpme,”
ignoring the distinction between his .22
rimfire and the .303 centre-fire used by
his Bisley friend (B. 29/7/’53), “snaps”
the empty rifle a few times he will speedily
notice the result. The hardened striker
hitting the breech, uncushioned by the
folded rim of the cartridge, will dent the
edge of the chamber. He will find
resulting difficulty in extraction. In
a centre-fire rifle the force of impact
of the striker is taken by a shoulder
inside the bolt. The bolt in the
military rifle will stand any amount
of snapping, empty. Both of “S.’s” tenets
of gun-lore are sound enough, but they
apply principally to shotguns; if you
fire a shotgun blocked at the muzzle
with a clod of earth, you will blow the
end off the relatively frail barrel. The
few grains of powder in the tiny .22
cartridge could not burst a .22 barrel.
But this rifle can be bulged if fired while
plugged, and the .303 will invariably
bulge, if it does not burst, if fired in this
condition. In field workshops during the
war I saw numerous barrels the owners
of which had tried to shoot out a broken-
off pull-through. The result was usually
a bulged barrel.
* * * ♦
“Gulliver”: Queensland and the Terri-
tory weren’t the only States in which the
“contraband Chinese” (B. 24/6/’53) could
be found. Prior to Federation, there was
a brisk trade in Celestials between Vic-
toria and N.S.W. The Pats were seeking
work in thousands as the Victorian gold-
fields petered out, and Riverina squatters
needed contract labor in large quantities
to cope with rabbits and burrs. Between
supply and demand were the N.S.W.
immigration laws, poll-taxes, and the
Murray River —a triple challenge to the
adventurous spirit our forefathers (par-
ticularly, I believe, one of mine) found
hard to resist. The lurk was to assemble,
through devious channels, parties o
Chows at secluded spots along the Vic-
torian bank of the river. After dark
they were rowed across, loaded into tour-
horse “drags,” and by daylight they were
30 miles or so away, stooping over hoes
or shovels as though they’d been doing
nothing else all their lives, and each
looking so like his neighbor that it was
impossible to pick the new arrivals.
The “trade” was regarded locally as
nothing more than the commonsense
correction of a somewhat asinine set ot
laws.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: We had just started a new
cottage; Norm walked towards a brick-
stack to load his hod —and was stopped
in his tracks by about 90lb. of snarling,
threatening Alsatian. The owner looked
up from his job of fencing; came over
quickly, picked up his coat from the brick-
stack, and explained: “She thought you
were going to take my coat. You can
go ahead now, but don’t try to touch
her.” “I’ll soon cobber up with her,”
declared Norm confidently. “No ; you’ve
got no chance with Sally,” said the
owner.” “Young Tiger will chum up
with anybody, but not his mother.” At
lunch-time Norm threw a piece of meat
to Sally. Her hackles rose menacingly.
He threw another piece to Tiger. The
young dog wagged his tail, but had obvi-
ously been trained not to accept food.
However, he came close, received an
affectionate clump on the head, had his
back scratched, his ears pulled, and rolled
on his back with ecstasy while his tummy
was rubbed vigorously. In the midst of
the fawning Norm felt something rubbing
against his bicep—Sally was standing with
tail wagging and neck outstretched.
Jealousy is not confined to humans.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It was a windy day,
and Walpebool had booted a big lead in
the first quarter and held it. We had the
wind in the last quarter, but still needed
a goal with about two minutes to go
when Mat took a mark at centre-half-
forward. While practically all of both
teams crowded the goal-mouth, he eyed
the distance, sampled the wind and de-
cided on a place-kick. After setting the
ball he went back. Dead silence from
the barrackers. Mat ran in and sank the
boot. He kicked a grubber. Our crowd
groaned as a dozen men rushed to meet
the ball skidding along the ground. Then
it hit a tussock, bounced over the head of
the first wave, landed in an open spot,
screwed between the legs of one man,
two others shepherded each other off
it, and it just beat the frantic rush of a
Walpe back and rolled through the goal.
“Blimey,” said Mat, “I thought for
a while it was going to miss!”
ONE-HORSE TOWN
I’ve often been to a one-horse town
And never seen
The horse.
Horses can lose themselves in trees
Or down by crystal creeks,
Of course.
So that’s not odd.
What does seem odd is that this town
Has never gained itself renown
The way some other one-thing places
Put themselves in public graces.
What jacaranda, wine and cherries
Do for those
Of which I speak,
The horse could surely do as well;
So why not have
A One-Horse Week?
N.s.w.
IAN HEALY.


"Come, Ben'-'you should
know by now that I prefer,
White Horse.
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
ASK FOR IT NAME
m
WH21.52
DALGETY AND COMPANY LIMITED (Incorporated in England)
ENGLAHD
r
ML
:..T \ \ ! / ;
The "HAPPY MEDIUM"
4 days in the Air
14 days at Sea
By QANTAS "CONSTELLATION" to South
Africa via Cocos Is. and Mauritius, then
to England by UNION CASTLE MAIL
STEAMER. Combined fare from £432 (Aust.).
Tours to Kruger National Park available en route.
consult
Dalgety*
OFFICES THROUGHOUT AUSTR ALIA
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Most balance-sheets so far to
hand since June 30 have pleased
the shareholders concerned and
stimulated the market generally.
B.H.P. figures were satisfactory,
and the lift (to 9 p.c. p.a.) in the
quarterly div.-rate of the Bank of
N. S. Wales was a pleasant sur-
prise, followed as it was by
announcement of the one-for-
two new cash issue at a premium
of £7 10s. per £2O share. Indica-
tions are that a number of other
balance - sheets will show
improved results for 1952-53,
though throughout some indus-
tries {such as woollen textiles,
electrical goods, ice-cream and
confectionery, timber-distributing
and clothing) results are bound
to be patchy.
The cement industry had a
record year, and Kandos
Cement’s earnings improved, but
it exhibits only a passed-on
income—mainly what it receives
from a jointly-owned operating
co. which controls both the N. S.
Wales and Victorian ends of
Australian Portland Cement’s
business. The Kandos dividend
was unchanged at 10 p.c., and
the market was disappointed.
The 16s. shares, which have
been as high as 395. 9d. this year,
have dropped to 355. 3d., to yield
4.6 p.c. Certainly in N. S. Wales
competition is returning to the
industry, and cos. operating in
the Portland area are finding rail-
freights and road-transport taxes
a burden; but conditions are
easier at the Victorian end, and
the overall outlook for efficient
cement - producers is good.
Kandos shares at present are
undervalued in relation to its
Victorian partner’s scrip. Aus-
tralian Cement £1 shares are
unobtainable at 435. 6d., and
would yield 4.6 p.c. only if it
raises its div. (at present 8 p.c.)
to the Kandos rate of 10 p.c.
And Kandos is in a stronger
relative position than Australian
Cement.
The final ord, dividend (4 p.c.
—there was no interim) from
Australasian Paper was an agree-
able surprise to the market. The
ord. shares, which had been
down to 17s. 9d. recently, rose
25., and then steadied at 19s. 6d.
The A.P.M. group has been
among the larger Australian
secondary industries *to feel
severely the altered state of
world markets. (The woollen
textile industry is another
example.) Whilst A.P.M. is
passing through a difficult stage
at present high Australian
costs are placing it at a disad-
vantage in the face of keener
overseas competition—it has a
good case for tariff protection,
inasmuch as under war-time and
post-war price-control the Aus-
tralian industry was forced to sell
at well below world parity.
The record earnings by
General Motors-Holden’s excited
considerable comment, from the
pulpit, from politicians and else-
where. But the profits, spread
over the tooling-up period (when
ord. divs. were absent), are by no
means high, especially when it is
considered that, if Australia is to
have a new-model Holden at
some later period, then very
large capital-funds will be needed
to finance it. And the only
sound way in which such finance
can be provided is through
ploughed-back profits. The
motor-car industry the world
over has progressed to the high
pitch it has reached through the
utilisation of much of its profits
to provide the public with a
better motor-car.
In B. 5/8/’53 it was suggested
that the Hotel Metropole would
follow the Hotel Australia in
Sydney by showing improved
profits, especially since the
Metropole has a strong
pastoralist clientele. Actual
profits for the year have turned
out to be 12.9 p.c, on capital,
compared with the previous
year’s 10.7 p.c. showing, and the
div. has been lifted from 10 p.c.
to Hi p.c. (final 7i p.c.). There
is a good possibility of the old
rate of 12i p.c. being restored
this year if the new wool season
opens well. Metropole scrip has
lifted from 335. to 345., buyer.
Anticipating improved figures,
Masonite supporters offered
48s. 6d. for the co.’s old ords. in
Sydney, as against last sales at
465. (In Melbourne on the same
day the new shares changed
hands at 485.) The co. will
present its accounts next month,
and it is expected to report a
particularly busy year. The co.’s
product is still in short supply
in some areas.
The profit of £68,328 (down
£2329) shown by Swans, Ltd.,
N.S.W. hardware distributors,
was still equal to 22.3 p.c, on
average ord. capital, and the
12i p.c. div. was repeated com-
fortably. (In 1950-51 the rate
was 15 p.c.) Turnover was only
\\ p.c. lower than in the preced-
ing year, and for June and July
of this term it has improved. At
435., cum div., the ords, yield
an attractive 6 p.c.
In anticipation of results to
June 30 (Swans balances a month
earlier) the market offers 445. 6d.
for Frederic Ash shares, without
attracting sellers. Supporters of
F, J. Walker will be disappointed
if the co, does not pay 12 p.c.
for the past term. The scrip rose
to a record 20s. 6d. last week.
The industry has had an out-
standingly good year.
In Melbourne there was a
livening in the market for
Malcolm Moore shares. This
“ Bureaucrat !”
concern paid an interim at the
rate of 20 p.c. on its increased
capital, and if a final rate is kept
at that figure the immediate yield
will be 9 p.c. at 465. 6d., allow-
ing for the div. It is a business
in which demand fluctuates a
good deal, depending to some
extent on public-works expendi-
ture.
Most movement in share prices
is among the second-line indus-
trials. Front-rankers remain
quiet. Whilst B.H.P. figures were
good, the fact that the div. was
kept at 8| p.c. meant that the
yield remains low at 3.8 p.c. with
the shares at 435. 6d. Tooth
scrip keeps very quiet in
Sydney at around 715., to return
4.2 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
Both these stocks are attractive
for holding, but at present the
market is in the mood for earlier
benefits. It has had quite a lot
of holding to do already.
Taxes and Industry
The large profit shown by
General Motors-Holden’s should
not mislead Treasurer Fadden
into the belief that Australian
secondary industry as a whole is
doing well. What the Holden
car has returned to its manufac-
turers is not excessive in view
of the years of preparation and
tooling-up in which shareholders
received nothing. And for any
industry to reproduce itself it
needs to show profits which may
be superficially dazzling, but
which, on analysis, are generally
found to be moderate and which
are mostly ploughed-back into
the business in order to improve
scope and efficiency and increase
employment. Sir Arthur Fadden
may take it for granted that
unless shareholders in industry
receive, considerably more in the
way of dividends than they are
doing now support for Common-
wealth loans will remain
inadequate.
The one apparent danger of
increased profits is that it may
encourage business manage-
ments to slacken their efforts to
keep costs down. That is a
danger, Australia’s chief bug-
bear today is its low rate of pro-
ductivity and high rate of costs
—costs which are daily pricing
our products out of overseas
markets and threatening the
stability of pur currency in the
exchanges. The less efficient our
industries become the greater
will be the pressure to depreciate
our currency. And it is a fact
that the “Labor”- and Com-
munist-inspired division of the
classes engaged in industry has
tended to blunt the edge of
managerial keenness, especially
after a long period in which the
seller controlled the market.
In Australia enterprise has
been foolishly hindered by trade-
union and “Labor” Government
policy. Income from property
bears a heavier tax than that
from personal exertion, whilst
public companies are taxed as
individuals at a flat-rate of 9s.
in the £ on profits over £5OOO
and shareholders are taxed, with-
out rebate, on any dividends they
get. Private companies are taxed
at ss. in the £ on the first £5OOO
and 7s. on the remainder. But
private companies are also taxed
on 75 p.c. of their undistributed
profits over £5OOO at the rate of
10s. in the £ in addition.
There has been a lot of
monkeying (with the object of
avoiding taxes) with private com-
panies by wealthy men who, have
been shrewdly advised by taxa-
tion experts, with the result that
the law has been made difficult
for all. But there is no doubt
that the Australian system of tax-
ing private companies is an
obstruction to new_enterprise. In
his book Human Action Ludwig
von Mises covered the social
problem involved very well
when he said:
Every Ingenious man is free to
start new business projects. He may
be poor, his funds may be modest
and most of them may be borrowed.
But if he fills the wants of con-
sumers in the best and cheapest way
he will succeed by means of “exces-
sive’-’ profits. He ploughs back the
greater part of his profits into his
business, thus making it grow
rapidly. It is the activity of such
enterprising parvenus that provides
the market economy with its “dyna-
mism.” _ The “nouveau riches” are
the harbingers of economic improve-
ment. Their threatening competi-
tion forces the old firms and big cor-
porations either to adjust their con-
duct to the best possible service ot
the public or to go out of business.
But today taxes often absorb the
greater part of the newcomer’s
“excessive” profits. He cannot
accumulate capital; he cannot ex-
pand his own business; he will never
become big business and a match
for the vested interests. The old
firms do not fear his competition;
they are sheltered by the tax-col-
lector. They may with impunity
indulge in routine, they may defy
the wishes of the public and become
conservative. It is true the income
tax prevents them, too, from
accumulating new capital. But what
is more Important for them is that
it prevents the dangerous newcomer
from accumulating ANY capital.
They are virtually privileged by the
tax system. In this sense progres-
sive taxation checks economic pro-
gress and makes for rigidity
Profits are the driving-force of the
market economy. The greater the
profits the better the needs of the
consumers are supplied. For profits
can only be reaped by removing dis-
crepancies between the demands of
the consumers and the previous state
of production activities. He who
serves the public best makes the
highest profits. In fighting profits,
Governments deliberately sabotage
the operation of the market economy.
The Socialists have set the
pace in inflicting punitive taxa-
tion on the rewards of thrift, and
the problem of the present
Federal Government is under-
standably difficult, especially in
view of the heavy burden that
the so-called Welfare State has
imposed on us. But some time,
somehow, a Liberal Government
will have to take a realistic view
of our economy and bluntly put
it to the people that industrially
we are unable to carry the taxa-
tion burden unless productivity
throughout the land improves,
and with that improvement
comes a considerable drop in
production costs.
With regard to the problem
of double-taxation of companies,
Canada has already shown the
way to a more equitable arrange-
ment by allowing a tax-rebate of
20 p.c. on dividends paid to
shareholders. Canada’s flat-rate
tax on corporations is already
about the same as that on Aus-
tralian cos., but Canadian in-
dustry is more mature than Aus-
tralia’s, and it has not to face the
industrial problems created by
the division of powers that we
see under our Federal system.
Payroll tax in Australia is also
a tax on incentive. But it is
paid by the proprietary side of
industry, not (directly) by the
mass of voters, and economic
rather than short-term political
thinking is needed to remove it.


4m
m*
|H
STEP INTO A.N.Z BANK-
**■
w
The busy man steps confidently into A.N.Z. Bank.
Time is important to him and he knows
that A.N.Z. Bank is organised to give
efficient service quickly.
A-N-Z
, w
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia The Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
Established 1835 Established 1837
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji and in London
AGENTS IN ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD
0
on
development
Many years have passed
since the days when fuelling
equipment was no more than ~
a solid-tyred open lorry
with petrol cans. Aircraft have
been developed to such an extent
that fuelling has become an
operation requiring precision
equipment. High pumping speeds,
micro-filtered fuel and uplifts of /
many tons have made it necessary
for considerable efforts to be
devoted to fueller development.
This illustration shows an underwing
integral coupling being connected, pre-
paratory to fuelling a Comet. It is but
one example of the results of development
over the years, which now enable the green
and yellow fuellers of BP Aviation Service
efficiently to meet the requirements
of the most modern aircraft.
>*■ \ v >..
y^""«
aw *
• 1 X #*:
■
uu«iw
«If
f i
i M
-> V-i
AVIATION
BP
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.
4/53
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
With Westminster now in
summer recess there will be no
Parliamentary activity until late
October. Conservative M.P.’s
are sighing with relief that the
Government has managed to
stonewall through its longish
ordeal by absence and emerge
without any loss of prestige. But
they are not without apprehen-
sions and misgivings. Sicknesses,
both of them in part occupa-
tional, have laid low both the
Prime Minister and his deputy,
the Foreign Secretary. To add
to this embarrassment, the
Acting Foreign Secretary was
perforce answerable only to the
Upper Chamber; and the
Opposition, already keyed-up for
the possibility of big events in
the field of foreign affairs,
showed justifiable impatience.
Yet the deputy-deputy-Prime
Minister, Mr. Butler, managed to
carry his bat —and the day—with
his characteristic dry and color-
less toughness. But only just.
What will happen in the
autumn? Will Sir Winston
prepare to hand over? Or will
he continue in the role that he
alone can fill —as elder statesman
and creative architect of world
order?
Not long ago Churchill could
sit back and take things easy
with the full confidence that he
could direct the policy and rely
fully upon his lieutenants to
carry it out. It is no secret that,
after Mr. Eden fell ill, the double
burden was too much for him.
Significantly, his enforced rest
was due to mental rather than
physical strain. If he is to carry
on, much more delegation will
be required. Mr. Eden cannot
be expected to carry a heavier
load ; and Mr. Butler, it is under-
stood, considers the Treasury to
be his whole-time preoccupation.
The Conservative party will be
sorely troubled if the Prime
Minister pays no heed to the
insistent whispered calls for a
Cabinet reorganisation in the
autumn. Too much authority—
and strain—rests upon too few
heads; and some of the Prime
Minister’s old and trusted friends
have lacked both promise and
achievement. There are several
virile and able young men in the
Conservative party whose back-
ground is vastly different from
that which nurtured the profes-
sional politician of Churchill’s
younger days. They might with
advantage be more assiduously
encouraged and groomed.
An autumn election? Most
probably no, although the odds
against have shortened. The
Government would most
certainly welcome a stronger
majority, for that would mean
a less-troubled passage for con-
troversial legislation, and also
an easing of the debilitating
strain upon M.P.’s ; but, again,
the present state of health of the
Prime Minister and his deputy is
not conducive to thoughts of
campaigning.
Labored Conflict
That depressing manifestation
of political atavism, the list of
resolutions tabled for the Labor
party’s September conference at
Margate, has once again under-
lined the sprawling tensions
within the ranks of our alterna-
tive Government. Space pre-
cludes a summary of these
wistful expressions' of faith, but
the mixture is monotonously the
same. If the sentiments are less
acid .and the phrasing more
woolly than those of Mr. Sevan’s
slick propagandists in “Tribune”
the total sum is still Bevanism-
plus. More and more street-
corner Socialism, nationalisation
of everything under the sun and
moon, a strong dash of fellow-
travelling and, to give the mix-
ture an acceptable taste, a hefty
lacing of class-war.
This is not one huge voice, bel-
lowing through a megaphone,
like a card-holding delegate at
a trade-union conference. It is
a parrot-cry of little nostalgic
squeals, directed with the pathetic
unanimity of nearly 400 constitu-
encies. Thus the party-workers,
the militant rank-and-file, expose
their fierce disagreement with the
Right wing: that is, with the
Attlee-Morrison group in Parlia-
ment and the Lawther-Deakin-
Evans group in industry.
The fissure grows ever deeper
and wider. It must ultimately
resolve into a head-on clash be-
tween Bevan and Another,
whether the name be Attlee,
Morrison, Gaitskell or Ede. It
must also, short of a miracle,
physically split the Labor party
as a movement, political force or
what-you-will.
Mr. Attlee, although not a
Yorkshireman, has learned the
wisdom of the maxim “When in
doubt, say nowt,” and probably
holds the balance by this very
silence. Not so the trade-union
leaders. With traditional blunt-
ness and invective they do their
best to instil hard commonsense
into the dissentients. Mr. Deakin
has now castigated Mr. Attlee
for his muteness. And Sir
William Lawther has epitomised
the Bevanites and their disciples
in the trenchant phrase “Clever
Johnnies and stupid brethren.”
The latest device to set the
house in order scatters fraternal
solidarity to the winds. Mr.
Morrison, who was rejected from
the Labor-party executive last
year by the constituency vote, is
sorely needed for his great
powers of organisation. So he is
being put forward as party
treasurer in order that he may
serve ex-officio. This is in
opposition to his old colleague,
Arthur Greenwood, now 73 and
in indifferent health, but pre-
sumably a satisfactory treasurer
since 1945. To the fervent
Socialist such posturing smacks
of manipulation and sharp
practice. It is bound to lead to
further acrimony,
“Gloriana” Breathes On
The talented creator must have
a patron. That no one disputes.
When, as now, taxation and
egalitarianism have so dissipated
individual wealth as to leave no
private patrons of the arts, it is
right that the State should inter-
vene and take their places. With
that, few people of sensibility
will disagree. But what happens
when the State backs a flop?
When the patron was Lord
Manyacres or Sir Lavish Money-
bags, the answer was simple.
Eyebrows might be raised, but,
after all, how the patron spent
his money was nobody’s busi-
ness. Quite naturally, where
public money—the taxpayer’s
own, in fact —is involved the
issues are rather more compli-
cated.
Benjamin Britten’s latest
opera, “Gloriana,” is a recent
instance. It was to be, at least
in the general opinion, a
splendid, inspired tribute to the
Coronation, the very best that
the artistic elite could offer.
Perhaps “flop” is too unkind a
word. Enough to say that the
first-night audience (privileged,
highly distinguished but not
ostensibly musical) sat through
with slightly bewildered toler-
ance ; that the later perform-
ances quite failed to enthuse the
regular opera-goer ; and that the
critics were more easily pro-
voked into controversy than
praise.
At all events, the guarded
reception should cause Mr,
Britten to take stock of his repu-
tation. He has enjoyed an excep-
tional degree of patronage, to say
nothing of encouragement by
way of subsidy. (The minimum
cost of staging an opera at
Covent Garden is £lo,obo, and
receipts are comparatively small.
“Gloriana” had 10 perform-
ances.) His last opera, “Billy
Budd,” was reasonably well
received here, but Paris, having
no proprietary interest in the
composer, couldn’t make it out
and dismissed the theme as of
little interest.
In the end, the artist must be
judged by his work alone. His
way of fife and intellectual
approach are his own concern.
But it is, nevertheless, keenly felt
that Mr. Britten might better
serve his art if he broadened his
outlook and accorded to his
themes the same maturity as to
the texture of his music.
In sum, the Elizabeth-Essex
story is a squalid and unsavory
affair to set before a nation at
the beginning of a new reign. It
belongs to the eclectic domain of
intimate opera, not to the grand
occasion. The eye warms at the
luxurious pageantry, but this,
after all, is superimposed and
barely relevant to the plot,
William Plomer’s libretto, what-
ever its other virtues, falls down
when it strives after dramatic
progression. The intended
coups de theatre misfire ; and the
closing scenes, when Queen
Elizabeth I, poor soul, is left
alone with her thoughts, would
be asking too much of a Bern-
hardt who was gifted with the
voice of a Melba. As to the
music, it is cultured, thoughtful,
cleverly-fitted and scored with
fastidiousness. It demands a
second hearing—but in the
concert-hall, not the opera-
house.
“Gloriana” has flown, com-
plete with scenery and stage-
hands, to the Bulawayo festival.
It is also booked .for the opening
of the season at La Scala, Milan.
Mr. Britten’s admirers, and his
generous patron, keenly await
Italian reactions. A candid
opinion from outside the family
is often revealing.


S? 1 5 Bril
mm
b-n r t
P |p B
Shh
IS fir
Sti
33-39 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
WAGGA WAGGA.
TAMWORTH and
ORANGE.
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73,000,000.
Have you looked over your will lately?
If you have not revised your Will to meet to-day’s
conditions, the consequences may be serious for someone
who depends on you. Your responsibility to that some-
one is too important to justify delaying until some tomorrow
that may never come.
Why not have a confidential talk with one of our
Senior Officers on the subject of the appointment of the
Company as your Executor and Trustee—alone or jointly
with a relative or friend?
He will help you provide for the efficient and
economical settlement of your Estate, also for its efficient
management thereafter. The final step of instructing your
Solicitor to redraw your Will should then be a simple
matter.
If you would have particulars of the services offered
by the Company write (or ring 80377) and make an
appointment.
DIRECTORS:
Hon, T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.. Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd.
t Dividends
Pref.
Dee. Loss. 6 p.c. Ord. Reserves.
1945.. 68,528 38,696 Nil 1,024,793
Prom tax reserve, £15,849 .. .. 1,040,642
1946.. 437,529 33,696 Nil 569,417
Profit sale assets, £21,918 .. 591,335
Equity subsid. profits, £3585 ~ 694,920
Profit.
1947.. 570,372 33,696 Nil 1,131,596
From inventory reserve, £140,900 .. 1,272,496
Profit sale assets, £2109 .. .. 1,274,605
Equity subsid. profits, £5441 .. 1,280,046
1948.. 681,604 33,696 Nil 1,927,954
G.M.-H. and Subsidiaries.
Sale fixed assets, £2428 .. ..1,930,382
1949.. 477,159 33,696 Nil 2,373,845
Net loss realisation assets, £33,776 .. 2,340,069
Net equity subsid. profit, £21,390 .. 2,361,459
1950. 2.603,364 33,696 50 p.c.= 875,000 4,056,127
Profit sale assets, £28,989 .. .. 4,085,116
Net equity subsid. profit, £10,012 .. 4,095,128
1951. 3,348,023 83,696 30 p.c.= 525,000 6,884,405
Profit sale assets, £53,707 .. .. 6,938,162
Net equity subsid. profit, £9380 .. 6,947,542
1952. 3,947.548 33,696 Nil 10,861,394
There has been some muddled thinking
and ill-informed comment about the
lushness of the co.’s recent profits
encouraging Communism. Fact is that
the whole Australian economy, in par-
ticular the Government and the co.’s
suppliers of materials, and its employees
and others have benefited substantially
from the successful expansion of the
organisation, with the equity shareholders
well in the rear so far as immediate
rewards are concerned. They have had
two divs. totalling 80 p.c. over the last
eight years—average 10 p.c. p.a.—and
during the last six of them more than
86 p.c. of the declared profits have been
ploughed back into the business, thus
making possible its extraordinary expan-
sion, and the benefits that have flowed
from it.
Last term the co. paid more than £3O
million mainly to some 3000 Australian
suppliers of materials, components, etc.;
Government bleeding in the form of
Customs, sales and income taxes, etc.,
amounted to over £l4 million; those
on the payroll (average number
10,256) got a total of £9.6 mil-
lion, the average weekly wage being
£l7 Bs., or 14 p.c. more than the average
for the previous year, and over 17 p.c.
of them received an extra £7056 for
accepted suggestions, highest individual
award being £9OO.
Central feature of the co.’s post-war
activities has been production of the
all-Australian-made Holden car and
utility truck. First units of the new
vehicles came off the production-lines
towards the end of 1948, and the latest
accounts are a testimony to the success
achieved since. At the end of 1951
demand was running so far ahead of
production that the co, decided to step
up its output of Holdens from 85 to 200
vehicles a day, and to further enlarge
other production- and assembly-plants.
Estimated cost of the programme, which
is expected to be completed by the end
of 1953, is £11,000,000, of which
£8,000,000 is to be spent in Australia.
That will lift total post-war capital
expenditure on reconversion and expan-
sion to about £20,000,000.
It is this expenditure, and profits earned
by the assets it represents, that are the
real and only bulwark behind high
wages and salaries, and therefore a high
standard of living. Profits are a measure
of both efficiency and economy, and are
essential to the maintenance and expan-
sion of a business.
The co.’s motor-vehicle sales have
moved in this way since 1949:
Number Cars and Trucks.
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Holden .. .. 7,725 20,113 25,177 31,945
Vauxhall/Bedford .. 16,785 16,800 14,915 10,135
U.S. and Canadian .. 6,433 7,055 5,413 5,265
Total .. . . 29,943 43,968 45,505 47,345
From Nov., 1948, to the end of 1952
total value (wholesale) of Holden vehicles
sold was nearly £63,000,000. More
Holdens were sold on the Australian
market last year than any other individual
make. Import-restrictions and tighter
credit, etc,, retarded sales of British-made
Vauxhall and Bedford vehicles. The
dollar problem has pushed the co.’s
American franchises into the background.
The expanding activities of three non-
vehicle sections of the business make a
handy contribution to earnings, too. They
are the National Automotive Service Co.,
which handles auto.-parts and -acces-
sories ; the Industrial and Domestic
Equipment Co., which makes diesel
engines and power and other equipment;
and the Frigidaire division, which pro-
vides domestic and commercial refrigera-
tion units.
Turnover has more than doubled since
1949;
Vehicle. Non-vehicle. Total.
1949 .. £18,328,067 £3,494,471 £21,822,538
1950 . . 30,118,162 5,000,590 85,118,752
1951 . . 35,297,750 7,183,995 42,481,745
1952 .. 41,583,595 8,036,062 49,619,057
The improvement last term was
£7,137,912, or 16.8 p.c.
Net profit was £599,525 stronger at
£3,947,548, equal to 7.9 p.c. of turnover,
or 29.7 p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined). After paying the
pref. div. (£33,696) enough remained to
show 223.6 p.c. on ord. capital, as against
189.4, 146.8 and 25.3 p.c. for the three
preceding terms ; the fatness of the ratios
to ord. capital is due largely to the size
of the reserves, £10,861,394 at Dec. 31
last. Moreover, recent results have been
won under exceptionally favorable con-
ditions, No ord, div. was paid, thus
leaving £3,913,852 of the year’s profit to
help finance further expansion of the
business. Later on the ords. can be
expected to reap as they have sown.
The co. is fortunate in being able to
adopt a policy of withholding ord. divs.
and placing large sums to reserves. It has
been able to do so because the £1,750,000
of ord. capital, or all but a small frac-
tion of it, is held by General Motors
Corp., U.S. Direct Australian interest
is confined to the £561,600 of 6 p.c.
pref. capital, issued in 1930 in part-pay-
ment for Holden’s motor-body-building
works.
The year’s net additions to the book-
value of premises and plant were
£1,396,938 and £2,125,855 respectively,
and debtors’ balance increased by
£508,492:
Consolidated Figures.
Paid capital—• 1950. 1951. 1952.
Pref, . . £561,600 £561.600 £561,600
Ord. . . 1,750,000 1,750,000 1,750,000
Creditors, etc. 5,757,261 7,190,610 5,430.411
Tax reserve 2,697,251 5.133,959 6,868,885
Pinal div. .. 891,848 541,848 16,848
Premises .. 1,167,621 1,658,321 3,055,259
Plant .. 2,163,139 2.692,841 4,818,696
Stocks .. 9,535,043 14,046,149 13,766,573
Debtors .. 727,950 1,641,981 2,150,473
Cash, etc. .. 1,245,334 2,023,180 1,198,137
To help meet the outlay and lop
£1,760,199 off the amount coming to
sundry creditors, the co. drew upon its
big holding of cash, etc., for £825,043
and reduced stocks by £279,576, thanks
to a better flow of materials. Allied and
affiliated cos. figure for £4,119,007 of the
creditors item on account of materials.
While the co. is obviously well
equipped to meet any local competition
by way of price-cutting, high costs have
stood in the way of an export market
for the Holden.
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1943.. 66,350 7.8 p.c.= 52,645 13,705 498,178
From doubtful debts reserve, £2500 .. 600,678
1944.. 66,186 7.8 p.c.= 52,645 13,641 514,219
1945.. 65,050 7.8 „ „ 52,646 12,405 526,624
1946.. 66,473 10 „ ~67,386 525,711
1947.. 67,180 10 „ „ 67,386 625,455
From doubtful debts reserve, £lOOO .. 526,455
1948.. 67,474 10 p.c. = 67,386 88 526,543
1949.. 67,676 10 „ ~67,886 290 526,833
1950.. 70,098 10 „ „ 67,386 2,712 529,545
1951.. 69,778 10 „ ~ 67,386 2,392 531,937
1952.. 76,276 10 „ ~70,883 5,393 537,830
1953.. 83,020 10 „ ~74,859 8,161 545,491
The interplay of a variety of cross-
currents, technical and economic, caused
the price of the co.’s f.-p. 16s. shares
to fluctuate between 595. 9d. and 325. 6d.
in the sharemarket since the beginning
of 1953. Last week the figure stood at
355. 3d., giving an immediate return of
4.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. At the
moment it is difficult to say when better
need be expected, or whether those on
the register are likely to be asked to
put up more capital, which seemed a
possibility a year or so ago.
Though still well below aggregate plant-
capacity, production is now catching up
with demand in the cement trade, due
partly to improvement in both coal-sup-
plies and the labor position, and partly
to the curbing of demand, especially in
the public sector of the economy, for
reasons of finance. The easing of activity
in the building trade, following a
tightening of credit, has had its effects,
too, though there has since been a revival
of demand from this and other quarters
of the private sector of the economy.
Still, the long-term outlook for old-
established and efficient producers like
this group, whose plants are moderately
capitalised in relation to output, is as
encouraging as anything of its kind cam
be under existing conditions. Net earn-
ings in the industry are governed largely
by the relative levels of output, .selling-
prices and costs. Selling-prices are con-
trolled, and costs have recently lost some
of their former buoyancy, though trans-
port charges are a bugbear.
To get the co. and its ramifications
into perspective it is first necessary to re-
member that Kandos and Australian
Cement are two holding, or investment,
concerns, being equal partners in Aus-
tralian Portland Cement Pty., which
took over each of the holding co.’s plants
at Kandos (N.S.W.) and Geelong (Vic.)
respectively toward the end of 1929, and
is now the biggest cement-producer in
the Commonwealth. The curtain is kept
drawn over its figures, but it appears
to have sent along a regular 6 p.c. on capi-
tal since 1943, as against 9 p.c. for the five
years before that. The holding cos. also
act as managing agent for the operating
co. in their own States. Thus Kandos
was able to pay \l\ p.c. for the five
years to 1942, followed by 7.8 p.c. for
the remaining three war years, and then
a steady 10 p.c, for the eight years to
the close of last accounts.
To help finance expansion and
modernisation of plant and ancillary
equipment, the operating co, increased its
paid capital from £2,000,000 to £2,500,000
since 1948. To pay for its half of the
increase, Kandos got in the remaining
Bs. on 187,184 of its 16s. shares, and
drew upon its holdings of Government
securities and cash for the balance. At
June 30 last paid capital was £748,736 in
935,920 f.-p. 16s. shares. Assets then
consisted of shares in the big operating co.
£1,250,000 (in at par), Government securi-
ties and cash £77,742, and shares in (£5000)
and advances to (£9000) a small sub-
sidiary, Pipe Linings (Aust.) Pty. £14,000.
There was only £10,078 coming to sundry
creditors, including provision for taxa-
tion.
At Geelong Australian Portland re-
cently modernised two big rotary kilns,
together now capable of turning out
260.000 tons cement p.a., and also in-
stalled a third but smaller unit, capacity
50.000 tons p.a. The Kandos plant
which used to have a capacity of 200,000
tons p.a., has been modernised and’ex-
panded, too. The combined annual
capacity of the two plants therefore ex-
ceeds 500,000 tons p.a., or about 40 p.c.
of total Australian production. The
Geelong plant now supplies all but a
small fraction of the cement consumed
in Victoria, while the one at Kandos
shares the N. S. Wales market with five
other producers, including the new Met-
ropolitan co,, which has gone heavily
into debt and hasn’t yet been able to
earn a profit, despite certain favors from
the State Government.
Howards, Ltd.. (Brisbane)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1943.. 22,423 8 p.c. = 11,128 11,295 169,809
1944.. 25,593 8 „ „ 11,128 14,465 174,274
1945.. 38,140 8 „ „ 11,128 27,012 201;286
Taxation, £22,258 .. .. .. 179,028
1946.. 89,806 16 p.c. = 22,254 17,552 196,680
1947.. 39,734 16 „ „ 22,255 17,479 214,069
1948.. 59,346 16 „ „ 22,255 37,091 251,150
1949.. 78,551 16 „ „ 22,25 5 56,296 3 07,446
1950.. 124,811 20 „ „ 27,818 96,993 404,439
1951.. 150,407 20 „ ~ 41.707 108,700 518,139
To staff fund, £25,000 .. .. 488,139
1952. . 102,479 20 p.c. = 41,706 60,773 548,912
1953.. 99,461 20 „ „ 41.70 6 5 7,755 606,667
The slip in Howards’ net earnings last
term was only 2.9 p.c.—a surprising
achievement considering the boom in the
motor trade passed its peak over a year
ago, and that other big distributors of
British-made vehicles show contractions
approximating 50 p.c. in profits for then-
latest trading periods.
The co. holds the franchise for Morris
cars and trucks —they are among the
four best-sellers in the market—for
Queensland and the Northern Rivers of
N, S. Wales. Last term franchises for
1 Wolseley and Riley cars and Nuffield
Universal Tractors were added to the
list, and “satisfactory” business has been
transacted in the new lines. Other con-
tributors tQ the pool are agencies for
Electrice and Coldflame refrigeration,
and sundry domestic appliances, which
overall continue to show satisfactory re-
sults.
The never-effusive chairman, James
Howard, whom shareholders can thank
for the present snug position of their
business, financially and otherwise,
briefly summing up the year’s operations,
says:—
During the first few months of the
financial year, due to import restrictions
and credit control, there was a general
tightening-up of business From October
onward satisfactory volume was again
secured, and it was not long before the
large stocks of Morris cars and trucks at
last balance were exhausted. Unfortunately,
through import-restrictions, stock available
was considerably curtailed.. . .The new
motor-vehicle assembly-plant at Serpentine-
road, Hendra, came into operation during
the year, and the service-station at Col-
chester- and Hope-streets, South Brisbane,
is now almost completed.
In round figures turnover was £3,000,000,
down £500,000, or 14 p.c. The slip in
gross profit (£611,366) was £116,757,
mostly offset by a saving of £110,739 in
exes. (£399,905), despite wage-lifts and
the initial cost of starting up the new
assembly-plant. A liberal £112,000 (down
£3000) was set aside for taxation, leaving
the net result only £3OlB short of the
previous year’s at £99,461.
The £99,461 was equal to 47.7 p.c. on
capital as against 49.1, 72.1, 89.7, 56.4,
42.6 and 28.5 p.c. back to 1947. The
distribution, of which 10 p.c. is labelled
“special dividend,” was kept at 20 p.c.
for the fourth year in succession. Share-
holders have never failed to receive a
handout for the last 30 years, average
rates of distribution being 12.8 p.c, for
the eight years to 1931, 8.4 p.c. for the
next 14 years, and 18.4 p.c. for the eight
boom years to the close of last accounts,
when reserves totalling £606,667 had been


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
Established 186 S
Contraetofs to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jaxul” window face envelopes
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR CAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
'JACKSON S’
O&UUJrjS**
BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OP SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
/
. . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BABBEBE
No Pads —
r No Springs
Fhe NBO-BAKREEE
acts like a band
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
Ten will at once, without effort and
In all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
IPiils today lor PRES LITERATURE.
babbebe DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3X), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Position Vacant
Require Junior Geologist for
Tennant Creek field. To map
prospects and lay out Drill Holes.
Job will last at least six months.
Salary £BO per month.
Apply:
a. McDonald, Box 38 p. 0.,
TENNANT CREEK, N.T.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HOMUEL VALLETTE. —TAKE
NOTICE that DAPHNE JOYCE VALL-
ETTE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2633 of 1953 on the grounds of your
desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse and she is
asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 27th of
October 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, New South Wales. —
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO DOUGLAS ACLAND.—TAKE NOTICE
that ESSIE AGNES ACLAND has filed a
Petition for Divorce N 0.2663 of 1953 on
the grounds of your desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 27th of October 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from CHARLES GRIFFITHS,
Solicitor, 109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
New South Wales. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
<*** A1N0
đ
uo*
&
EN ROUTE TO
CANADA, U.S.A. and U.K.
I
Fly Canadian Pacific to North America and enjoy a free
18| hour stopover at Honolulu . . . stay at famous Moana
Hotel, right on Waikiki Beach. Giant SUPER DC-6B
Airliners . . . pressurized . . . air conditioned, the most
modem and luxurious aircraft on the South Pacific and
operated only by Canadian Pacific on this route.
DEPARTURES FROM SYDNEY EVERY TUESDAY
(PcLciL(c
AIRLINES
Consult your Local Travel Agent or Canadian Pacific Air
Lines Ltd., 247 George St., Sydney, and 59 William St,
Melbourne; or Union Steam Ship Co. (General Agents).
CANADIAN PACIFIC AIR LINES LIMITED INC. IN CANADA
TILLEY Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
While import re-
strictions remain
you may have
difficulty in ob-
taining TILLEY
products.
as : ■
v~>
9-.-
mim
af>;
a
Hi
,^55
Men like this TILLEY Table Lamp because it is an
Independent Unit, it is Economic only pints of Kero for
12 hours' light —it is safe —it cannot spill —£» is a quality job.
Ladies like it because it is graceful and adds a dignity to any
home. Why not buy one?
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores.
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
MODEL TLIO6
(“THE QUEEN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
piled up to support and assist the
£208*533 of share capital.
Balance-sheet figures disclose
a comfortable financial position
and continued growth of the
undertaking:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital. £208,583 £208,538 £208,533
Creditors .. 215,690 479,487 180,748
Unearned
interest .. 26,760 26,243 54,569
Tax provision 142,497 121,907 144,376
Staff funds.. 25,000 25.000
Pinal div. .. 41,707 41,706 41,706
Freehold .. 86,355 112,780 196,801
Plant, etc... 6,875 10,894 17,388
Stocks . . 402,350 887,645 389,240
Book debts,
investment,
etc. . . 438,279 404,260 578,477
Cash. etc. .. 215,467 36,310 80,243
Last term stocks (in at cost or
under) were reduced by £498,305
and £298,739 was lopped off the
amount coming to sundry
creditors. The omnibus item,
‘‘book-debts, investments, etc.,”
increased by £174,217, and is
probably worth more than its
book-value. The additions to
freeholds (up £83,521) and plant
(up £6444) were on account of
new assembly works and service-
station already referred to.
The current term has opened
with sales on the up-grade, and
with the easing of import restric-
tions more cars and trucks should
become available. Also some
benefits should accrue from the
assembly-plant and service-
station, as well as from cuts in
taxation, the extent of which has
yet to be announced.
At 595. 3d. (575. a year ago)
the f.-p. £1 shares, covered by
net tangibles with a book-value
of 78s. 2d., return 6.7 p.c. on a
20 p.c. distribution.
Dennys, Lascelles, Ltd.
(Geelong)
To Be- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends, serves, serves.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
1949.. 54,082 11 = 33,000 21,082 167,230
Tax overprovided, £1592 .. 168,822
1950.. 92,511 15 s» 45,000 47,511 216,838
Tax overprovided, £4402 .. 220,785
Share premiums, £45,000 265,785
1951.. 20 = 74,400 61,653 327,388
Tax overprovided, £12,185 339,578
Written off investments,
£4363 335,210
Unexplained decrease, £9290 325,920
1952.. 67,642 15 = 58,500 9,142 335,062
Written back to invest-
ments, £lOOO . . . . 336,062
1953.. 100.490.15 = 58,500 41,990 378,052
* Subject to intangibles, £70,928.
The boom in the wool trade has
put this old-established Victorian
woolbroking and livestock and
other agency business in a
stronger position, financially and
otherwise, than ever before, and
so brightened the outlook for
shareholders. The average rate
of dividend, which was only
2 p.c. for the six years to 1936
and 5.1 p.c. for the next 11 years,
shot up to 14.5 p.c. for the half-
dozen years to the close of last
accounts. And reserves, which
doubled during the nine years to
1949, more than doubled during
the pext four years, reaching
£378,052 at June 30 last, while
paid capital, steady at £300,000
since 1930, was raised to
£390,000 by the issue of 90,000
new £1 shares at a premium of
10s. each in March, 1950.
Headquarters are at Mel-
bourne and there are 36 branches
scattered throughout the State.
Since war ended the gains from
a run of good seasons and soar-
ing prices—the latter reached
their peak a couple of years ago
—outstripped the brisk advance
of costs, except in 1952. Last
season Nature continued to
smile, and the bigger clip sold
readily at higher prices. The co.
handles about 9 p.c. of the Vic-
torian clip, figures for which
compare as follows over the two
years to June 30 last:
Average
Sold Value, Per Bale.
Bales. £ £ s. d.
1951- 999,499 84,140,987 84 3 8
1952- .1,093,238 106,850.450 97 14 9
The 1952-53 cheque was second-
biggest in the history of the
trade. In the livestock markets,
where the co. sold more sheep
but fewer cattle (numbers not
stated), prices declined. Its land
sales exceeded the previous year’s
figure.
After allowing something for
bad and doubtful debts, the
improvement in gross earnings
(£661,355) was £73,166. Includ-
ing allowances for depreciation
(£22,108, up £3911) and taxation
(£96,500, up £18,500), exes.
(£560,865) made off with £40,318
of the gain. The net result was
thus £32,848 stronger at
£100,490, which was equal to
25.7 p.c. on capital as against
17.3, 36.5, 31.8, 18 and 19.9 p.c.
back to 1948. The distribution
was kept at 15 p.c., of which
5 p.c. is called bonus, a reminder
that the recent fat years are not
likely to run on for ever.
The co.’s already strong
financial position was further
strengthened:
1951. 1952. 1953.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 390,000 390,000 390,000
Creditors, etc... 235,723 279,569 168,188
Staff funds .. 25,000 25,000 25,000
Tax provision .. 180,000 65,844 97,645
Pinal div. .. 62,400 46,800 46,800
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 296,002 296,450 295,456
Plant, etc. .. 40,771 59,961 61,668
Stock . . .. 38,322 54,371 32,358
Debtors . . 454.515 355,629 819,852
Cash, etc. .. 294,072 210,241 289,975
Trust bank
accounts .. 25,901 94,195 30,448
Goodwill . . 70,928 70,928 70,928
Last term reductions of £22,013
in stocks and of £35,777 in
debtors’ balances were accom-
panied by a cut of £116,381 in
the amount due to sundry
creditors and a net growth of
£15,987 in the strong holding of
cash, etc., including trust
accounts. The year’s improve-
ment in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£365,000) was £42,207.
The current term has got away
to a good start from the seasonal
point of view. The big impon-
derable is wool prices, hence the
opening auctions at Sydney at
the end of the month are
anxiously awaited. Last season
wool was able to resist the pres-
sures which brought down the
prices of metals, rubber and
some other commodities, due
partly to Russian and Japanese
buying. In the months ahead
much will depend upon the
strength of demand from the
U.K. and Western European
countries, A favorable feature
is the absence of heavy mill and
other stocks.
At 38s. 9d. (345. 6d. a couple
of months ago) the co.’s f.-p. £1
shares, covered by 355. 9d. in net
tangibles, return 7.7 p.c. on a
15 p.c. div. basis, or 5.1 p.c.
should the rate drop to 10 p.c.
Base Metals
With the resumption of free
dealings in copper on August 5,
the London Metal Exchange has
regained some of its former
status as an international trad-
ing centre. Free dealings in tin
were resumed on November 15,
1949, in lead on October 1,
1952, and in zinc on January 2,
1953.
Though the background of
each metal varies considerably,
prices for each of them, except
copper, reached their peak in
1951, and have eased steadily
since, with sharp falls follow-
ing their entry into the free
market. Here are London aver-
age prices in sterling since 1950:
Average London Prices (Stg.)
Year, Lead. Zinc. Tin. Copper.
June 30, £ £ £
1950 ~ 108.1 119.3 745.9 178.9
1951 .. 163.7 171.7 1079.8 220.4
1962 .. 149.7 149.2 964.5 259.6
Jan., ’53 99.1 88.8 957.8 286.0
May. ’53.. 82.4 69.1 740.9 253.0
July, ’5B 93.3 73.4 598.6 252.0
12/8/’53 96.2 74.3 586.7 233.7
Comparing average prices for
1951 with those on August 12,
1953, the falls have been zinc
57.6 p.c., tin 45.6 p.c. and lead
41.2 p.c. Bottom appears to
have been touched, for the pre-
sent, in July last.
Post-war shortages of base
metals came to an end in 1952.
Since then supplies of lead, zinc,
tin and copper have been ade-
quate for market requirements,
the shrinking needs of the U.S.
stockpile programme having
contributed to the availability of
most metals. And then came the
long-awaited armistice in Korea,
together with prospects of a
better understanding between
the West and the Soviet bloc.
It all tended to alter the basis
of calculations which had previ-
ously
international uncertainty, it
or mierna sl /o uld
and tliat dealers, as a
utio ’ nary me asure, should
maiK _ price rm
assessment
» KTS»«S fi
tentative, x &
whafltt worth! - mote"
able for lead and zinc than it is
f or copper and tin.
Those mines handling low-
grade ore, and which are unable
p be
hardest hit. Some Australian
nroducers of tin and copper will
Sd sevemfy


Women's Letters
MEILB'OUKNE
To meet the new U.S. Naval Attache,
Capt. R. A. Macpherson, and Mrs. Mac-
pherson, the retiring attache, Capt.
Robert W. Denbo, was host at a cock-
tail-party at the Dorchester, for about
200 people. The assistant U.S. Naval
Attache, Commander Robert Macklin,
and Mrs. Macklin assisted in receiving
the guests. Mr£ Macpherson’s attractive
frock of black jersey had a tucked bodice
and a very full skirt. t Mrs. Macklin
combined full black velvet skirt and a
bodice finished with a flesh-pink tulle
yoke which was embroidered with black
beads and seed pearls, Mrs. F. H. Wright
wore sables with her smoke-grey suit and
small grey hat. Mrs. Henry Stebbins,
wife of the U.S. Consul-General, wore
dull-gold paper-shantung.
Mrs. Roy Blake, wife of Canada’s
Trade Secretary, chose a turquoise-blue
frock with burgundy hat and accessories.
Mrs. W. W. Killough’s black faille had
scarlet highlights, and diamente studded
the edge of her black velvet Tudor
bonnet. Lady Gepp and Mrs, David
Cheadle wore black ensembles, Mrs.
Keith Morrison a sage-green coat and
black velvet hat. Mrs. John Middleton
matched her hat with her turquoise-blue
frock. Mrs. John Carrodus had a small
winter-white melusine hat as contrast
for her black frock.
☆ ☆ ☆
Brigadier Ronald Irving was in the
chair at the monthly luncheon of the
Overseas League at the Victoria Palace,
at which Lieut.-General Sir Horace
Robertson, Lt.-Col. Gertrude Brindley, of
the R.A.A.N.C., and Major Margaret
Williamson, Assistant-Director of the
W.R.A.A.C., were guests-of-honor—the
latter two spoke of their experiences
with the Coronation Contingent. Others
at the luncheon were Miss Winifred
Nolan, of San Francisco, Mrs. Ronald
Irving, Mrs. Frank Scott, Mrs. Tom
Hudson, Mrs. H. Connell, Mrs. Fred
Brockhoff, Kathleen Gentle, Verna
Morgan and June Richardson.
☆ ☆ ☆
The English Speaking Union Younger
Group will hold its '‘Great Expectations”
ball, proceeds of which will go to the
formation of an E.S.U. Exchange Scholar-
ship, at Hawthorn Town Hall on Sept.
23. Tickets may be, obtained from
Marguerite Weir (BJ2840), Joan John
(BJ1344), Rosemary Gipps (WF3947) or
Pamela Middleton (U 9098),
☆ ☆ &
Beautiful and unusual fabrics, skirt-
lengths to suit individual tastes, varied
necklines and waistlines were new trends
seen in the preview of spring fashions at
George’s of Collins-street. Skirts varied
in length from Dior’s 17in. from the
ground to the mid-calf Neck-
lines were often high and demure, some
were cut in the new stand-away style,
and many suit-jackets were minus collars
and revers; instead, the new Chinese
collar was used. Sometimes the waist-
line was dropped to give a frock the line
of the ’twenties while in others the high
waist was almost of the Second Empire
period. There were sheer-wools, silk-
tweeds, wool-failles, ottomans and alpacas
for day wear; evening fashions blossomed
in silk organzas, embroidered laces, dull-
finish silk-jerseys, nylon-organzas and
rich failles.
Representative English designers in-
cluded Frederick Starke, Jacqmar, Hardy
Amies and Dorville, A daytime suit of
anthracite-grey alpaca featured pleating
at the edge of the cardigan-jacket, and
this was covered by a slim coat in butter-
cup-yellow wool. An amusing style was
the “brunch” coat of black-and-white-
striped cotton worn with tight-fitting black
cotton trousers. One Frederick Starke
model in grey wool-faille had a soft
collar at the back of the jacket which
merged into soft folds at each side of the
bodice, there being no revers. Another
design in grey, with a low-waisted jersey-
style bodice, was really a two-piece, for
when the jersey top was removed it re-
vealed a strapless sheath-dress.
The battle between the short and long
evening-gown still continues. For theatre
wear there was a short coat and frock in
matching fabric. One outstanding coat
was of very stiff black ottoman, with a
high stand-away collar, the whole lined
with scarlet silk. A short white-lace
theatre-frock was worn beneath a
dramatic coat of royal-purple silk gros-
grain. Another unusual model was of
mole-grey satin with a bolero, finishing in
front with stole ends. When the bolero
was removed, it showed the strapless
frock, encrusted with crystal- and bugle-
beads.
A crocus-green silk-organdie gown,
with a very wide skirt, also had its bolero
finish. This tied at the waist with a wide
white grosgrain ribbon, the ribbon also
banding the long stole-ends. The loveliest
gown in the collection was a mink-grey
silk-jersey moulded on classic lines, with
the soft draping of the bodice repeated
in the softly-folded pleats of the narrow
skirt. From the waist at each side fell
an overskirt which extended into a slight
train.
Titian-haired Batina Welch, a New
Zealander who has made her home and
stage-career in this country, will make
her next Melbourne appearance in the
Agatha Christie mystery play "The
Hollow," which begins at the Comedy-
on August 29, She was last seen here
with Robert Morley in " Edward, My
Son" Benina in private life is Mrs.
Dermoi O’Brien.
Gay and informal was the late-after-
noon party which Mrs. C. W. Marriott
gave in her Toorak home so that soprano
Joan Hammond and daughter Lolita
Marriott could meet a few of their former
golfing associates. The hostess received
her guests wearing a black frock and
gold satin scarf. Joan’s black frock had
bead embroideries on the bodice and
slim skirt. Lolita’s full-skirted frock
was of bronze-brown shot-taffeta.
Among those at the party were Mrs.
L. R. Buxton, whose silver-blue mink
stole covered a slim black wool frock;
Mrs. Norman Lynch‘ in white nylon
blouse, black skirt and small brown
gold-braided velvet hat; Mrs. John Mul-
lany, whose frock of rust-red wool-crepe
was outlined with jet beads; Mrs. R.
Marriott, in black frock; and Lilian
Cameron, her ballerina frock being of
navy-and-white-patterned faille.
☆ * ☆
At the dance held at No. 9 Darling-
street by the Wembley Junior Auxiliary
to the Women’s Hospital, ivy-leaves were
trailed over the small tables and multi-
colored berry decorations were used ex-
tensively. Mrs. Noel Bromell, who is
president of the auxiliary, received with
her husband the official guests. Mrs.
E. M. Cornfoot, a former president of
the hospital, and now patroness of the
auxiliary, was among them, and later in
the evening she presented Noel Bromell
and P. J. Downie with life-governors
certificates as a tribute to the work they
have done for the Women’s Hospital.
Mrs. Bromell, whose gown of pale-pink
slipper-satin had a pearl-encrusted halter-
neckline, had for support in hostessing
duties secretary Mrs. Keith Whitford,
treasurer Mrs. P. J. Downie, and ticket-
secretary Betty Jones. The lan Bucking-
hams, Commander and Mrs. A. White,
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Mummery and Mr.
ajnd Mrs. Dick Leane were among the
dancers.
☆ ☆ ☆
Plans for the Derby Eve Ball were
discussed at a meeting of the Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Children
held at her South Yarra home by the
president, Lady Gullett. Mrs. lan Miller,
who offered the use of her Toorak home
for the ball, is president of the ball-com-
mittee ; Mrs. Tom Fogarty and Mrs.
Tom Graham are joint hon. treasurers ;
Mrs. Bruce Rose is secretary; ticket-
secretaries are Mrs. Norman Wettenhall
(BY1061) and Mrs. Paul Grage (8J4664).
Mrs. Julian Barrett will be in charge of
publicity. Dinner and dancing will be
held in huge marquees erected in the
garden.
SYDNEY
There was something really joyful
about the Children’s Book Exhibition
which was held at the Public Library last
week. Every day brilliant sunshine
filtered through the trees outside to shine
on the spring blossom filling the huge
windows. In the centre of the room _ a
gay model merry-go-round carried chil-
dren of all nations on its elephants, swans,
donkeys and ponies, and most skilfully
displayed all round the room were books
for every type of child. The collection
of old books by the Australian Fellowship
of Writers brought one’s own childhood
back with a nostalgic pang, recalled
again by the illustrations in the German
and Finnish fairy books.
High-school girls gravely took notes
on art, music and ballet, little ones
studied picture-books in the kindergarten
section surrounded by three-dimensional
pictures of the nursery rhymes ; two boys
sat behind a bookcase, quite lost in Air-
craft for Today and Tomorrow, and a
very gay group of three lads glibly
chanted aloud from a German book,
“because they liked the sound of the
words.” Although the noise was astound-
ing the children’s behavior was very
good, and they seemed really to appre-
ciate and enjoy the books. Altogether
it was a happy and a heartening sight.
Miss Tory Wicks, who is Australia's
No. I delegate to the Hockey Conference
at this year's tournament in England, left
by plane with the team on August 8 for
Fremantle, where the inter-State tourna-
ment will be played on August 24. Dele-
gates from 16 countries will be rep-
resented at the tournament. It is reported
that 65,000 seats have been sold for the
opening day, September 28, when Aus-
tralia will play England. Photo by Hugh
Spencer.
Dr. and Mrs. Ken Addison held a
reception for 180 guests at their old
family home, Walhalla, Lane Cove, after
the marriage of their only daughter,
Merrilee Joan, to John Walker Powell at
St. Phillip’s on Friday, Merrilee’s lovely
white dress of mounted organza had
hand-made flowers of organza, each with
a rhinestone heart, scattered over the
skirt, and similar flowers were mingled
with white bell-heather to form the circlet
from which her fingertip tulle veil cas-
caded, The bridesmaids, Katherine
Fraser and Joyce Higginbottom, wore
pink organza spotted with white, with a
half-circle of the organza flowers at the
back of their hair. The bride carried
snowdrops and white hyacinths, the
bridesmaids pink hyacinths and heather.
The groom is the youngest' son of the
late Mr. Harry Powell and of Mrs. Eric
Holcombe of Myall Park, Quirindi.
☆ ☆ *
Lucky leis, which were sold by trainee-
nurses, were a pretty touch (no pun here)
at the ball for the Mater Misericordise
Hospital held at the Troc. last week. The
guests-of-honor included Mr. W. M. Jack,
M.P., and Mrs. Jack, Mr. J. O. Cramer,
M.P., and Mrs. Cramer, Mr. Ivan Black,
M.L.A., and Mrs. Black, Mr. R. S.
Maher, M.L.A., and Mrs. Maher. The
ball-president, Mrs. R. Hodgkinson, who
welcomed the 600 guests with her hus-
band, Dr. Hodgkinson, wore a dress of
white organza with a pleated and draped
bodice. Amon£ those present were Dr.
and Mrs. J. E. F. Deakin, Dr, and Mrs.
Tom Bateman and Mr. and Mrs. S, J.
Timbs.
☆ ☆ ☆
“The Consul,” which opened at the
Tivoli last week, seems to have displaced
thallium and Miss Murray’s baby as
No. 1 topic of the week. This opera is
one of the most stimulating and provoca-
tive shows Sydney has seen this year, with
its modern theme and clever stage-
mechanics, not to speak of its musical
and dramatic value. People of the music-
world predominated on the first night—
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Williams, Mr. and
Mrs. Raymond Beatty, Madame Marotta,
and young singer Marjorie Conley, who
looked charming in a peach-satin dress,
a wool stole of black and silver and a
tiny circlet of mauve flowers in her hair,
Joy Nichols was given an ovation when
a spotlight picked out her box, next to
which sat Miss Gertrude Johnson, in a
handsome dress of black with an over-
skirt of black sequins, with Mr. and Mrs.
Garnet Carroll.
☆ ☆ *
Organised by the committee of the
Black and White Ball, the gala preview
of the technicolor film “Tonight We Sing”
brought some of Sydney’s lushest fur
coats to Hoyts’ Double Bay theatre last
week, for it was one of those shudder-
ingly cold nights Sydney puts on from
time to time just to show it has got a
winter. Mrs. Hector Livingston, how-
ever, looked as unconcerned as an ice-
maiden in her pink lace ballerina and
shoes tinted the same soft color. Edwina
Hordern, who had entertained at a
dinner-party before the show, also dis-
pensed with a fur, wearing a black velvet
dress and jacket trimmed with white
guipure lace for collar and edges. Mrs.
H, Clayton, however, wore both a coat
and a fox fur, and Mrs. Lennox Bode’s
white woolly coat over sleek black was
noteworthy.
Smart jewellery was worn by Mrs.
David Barraclough, whose Indian beaten-
gold necklace and bubble-cluster earrings
were worn with a silver-striped tie-silk,
and Mrs. Dick Allen, whose brilliant ear-
rings carried two ruby drops. Through
the generosity of Hoyts Limited, the
whole proceeds of this Ball will go to the
Royal Blind Society of N.S.W., for which
the Black and White Ball Committee
works.
☆ ☆ ☆
The highest honor that the R.S.L. can
bestow on a civilian, the Award of Merit,
was last week given to two women who
have worked for the returned soldiers,
sailors and airmen for many years: Mrs.
R. Bowden of Narrabfi, and Mrs. Ella
Mawer of Kirribilli. Mrs. Mawer is also
associated with Torch Bearers for Legacy
and is organising a dolls’ stall for the All
Nations Fair which is to be held at the
Trocadero about the middle of
November. Anyone who would like to
help her with this work could send dona-
tions of dolls, old or new, dolls’ clothing,
etc., to Legacy Office, 169 Elizabeth-street.
Helen Heney, whose new novel Dark
Moon has just been published, is the
author of two other books and says that
she has “several more books in mind,”
which is not surprising, considering the
varied life she has led.
Daughter of T. W. Heney, who also
was an author as well as being a noted
editor, she was brought up in Sydney
and Moss Vale and graduated in arts from
Sydney University before she went abroad
to study languages. She taught English
in Poland for five years, met Pilsudski,
Sikorski and many writers there, includ-
ing Joseph Conrad’s niece, and on her
return to Australia wrote a thesis on the
life of Strzelecki, the discoverer of Mount
Kosciusko. Next move was to train as
a medical-social worker, which work
brought her in contact with crippled
children, T.B. patients and into military
hospitals (in Brisbane),
In 1945 Helen went to the U.S. zone
of Germany, where she had what she
calls “some rather queer jobs” visiting
German prisons and as an interpreter in
military courts. Home again in 1946,
she became a teacher in the first migrant
camp and is still interested in migrants,
mainly through the work of the Polish
club. She loves the southern tablelands
and plans three novels built round Moss
Vale district, for she believes that there
is a wealth of material in the quiet
growth of Australian life apart from its
highlights.


Gain Time
and Save Money
d
on Overseas
Air Parcel Post
đ
Here is a time saving, money saving factor
about overseas Air Mail that is often over-
looked. You can speed your parcels and
packets overseas for less than half the cost of Air
Mail letter rates.
The few typical examples listed below indicate the
favourable rates for Overseas Air Parcel Post and
2nd Class Air Mail matter such as newspapers,
samples, printed matter, etc. Make full and regular
use of this economical method of mailing overseas.
Familiarise yourself also with the fees for Airmail
Letters, Aerogrammes, Postcards and Greeting Cards.
1
■
m
s
This announcement is inserted
as a public service by
Qantas Empire Airways,
Australia’s Overseas Airline,
Contractors to the P.M.G. for
Overseas Air Mail.
AM2b
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“The Square Ring”
Ralph W. Peterson, the
Adelaide playwright who wrote
“The Square Ring” currently on
view at the Princess, Melbourne,
is no Shakspeare, but he has
etched a sympathetic, if some-
what too photographically-
realistic, portrait group of the
members of a great profession.
The whole of the action takes
place in the dressing-room at
Adams’ Stadium in a provincial
town in England where the
modern gladiators are waiting to
fulfil their parts in the usual
Wednesday night’s bill.
The mob of modern Romans
can be heard roaring for blood
in the arena ; and in the dressing-
room, preparing to supply it, are
a boy-lightweight who has
changed from amateur to pro.
status and wants to make his
mother happy by winning his
first bout; a cauliflower-eared
old-timer who is on his last legs
but doesn’t know it and hopes to
stage a comeback; a welter-
weight who is a ladykiller and
desperately concerned about
carrying his nose through his
career undamaged; a boy
middleweight absorbed in a
romantic, novel; a light-heavy-
weight who is going to have his
face slashed by his backer if he
doesn’t lie down in his next
fight; and Docker Starkie, the
greatest heavyweight England has
produced, whose nervousness
and agitation are caused not by
the thought of the great bout
coming, but by the fact that his
wife is so little interested in his
fighting that she has gone out,
possibly with another fellow, and
left her seat empty.
The dressers prepare each
victim in succession, he struts out
to the arena, the mob shouts,
cheers and hoots or yells with
laughter, and he staggers or is
carried back in varying states of
defeat or triumph, the boy light-
weight having .been foully
slaughtered in his first round by
a brute who has rubbed his
gloves in resin, the potential
comeback having been outed for
all time by a beginner, and the
ladykiller having had his nose
punched ; while the light-heavy-
weight is expecting to have hiS
face slashed because his
opponent meanly lay down
before he could. Docker Starkie
meets another southpaw and
beats him; but dies of the
haemorrhage that haunts the
dreams of every fighter. His
wife rings up to congratulate him
just as he makes his departure.
If this is an inaccurate descrip-
tion put it down to the fact that
everything that happened—the
guts and gore, the aspirations of
the fighters, and even their dis-
interested focus on their strange
art or science completely
violated the critic’s associations,
so much so that once or twice
he thought he would have to go
outside to vomit. Nevertheless,
he had to admit on reflection that
the author had succeeded in
making the point he apparently
was after: that gladiators are far
less brutalised by their occupa-
tion than lookers-on are.
Kevin Lindsay, Harry Starling,
Mark Roberts, John Bluthall and
Malcolm Phillips were excellent
as the fighters, and Kevin Cole-
brook was especially good as the
dresser. Reg Dell made Docker
Starkie human.
“The Consul’’*"
“The Consul,” Gian Carlo
Menotti’s powerful and moving
three-act opera, is the subject of
a most arresting performance at
Sydney Tiv. by the Australian
National Theatre Movement,
Set in a police State on one
side or the other of the Iron
'Curtain, it depicts a fugitive
from the secret police who is
forced to leave his wife, baby
and mother; he waits at the
border for them, but they can-
not get visas; the wife sees the
baby and the mother die; the
husband returns and is captured,
and the wife puts her head in
the gas-oven.
Menotti wrote both libretto
and score, and the music follows
each twist and turn of the story
with wonderful fidelity; heard
objectively it would be harsh,
but, as the opera unfolds, those
qualities fade and blend perfectly
with the urgency of the story.
In one scene, for instance, the
Consul’s soulless secretary, bang-
ing a stamp on a bundle of visa
documents, sets the remorseless
rhythm against which the secre-
tary and the applicant for the
visa sing a duet about “signing
on the dotted line.” It is a
perfect piece of irony.
To this electric matching of
words and music are added some
familiar but remarkably effective
theatrical devices —the wife’s
dream spreading to a grotesque
dance between her husband and
the Consul’s secretary, in which
she joins; or, again, when she
puts her head in the gas-oven;
the macabre dance of death with
all the other unsuccessful
applicants for visas; or the
poignant dance in the ante-
room to the Consul’s office when
the magician (Lorenzo Nolan)
hypnotises the rest of the appli-
cants, for visas.
Marie Collie® as the wife was,
singing and acting, quite magni-
ficent —undoubtedly one of the
most important theatrical finds in
Australia for many years.
Justine Rettick was excellent as
the mother, John Shaw as the
chief police agent and Dorothea
Deegan as the Consul’s secretary
were grimly realistic, and Stefan
Haag, whose imaginative produc-
tion it was, was adequate as the
refygee-husband.
The orchestra, under Eric
Clapham, was at fault, chiefly in
the first act, when its weight at
times drowned the voices—a par-
ticularly noticeable offence in
this remarkable opera.
“The Telephone”
While “The Consul” was
being performed in Sydney,
Menotti had another airing when
the Union Theatre at the Uni-
versity of Melbourne put on,
“The Telephone,” a one-acter
about a young man who tries
to propose to his girl but whose
courtship is interrupted by per-
sistent phone-calls from other
suitors. He rushes off in
desperation to a public tele-
phone, rings the girl up and is
accepted.
The slender theme gives the
composer no opportunity for
the grim effects he achieved in
“The Consul,” but there are a
bubbling gaiety and excitement
about the music which were well
caught by soprano Margaret
Nisbett and baritone John Weav-
ing of the Society of New
Music. The absence of an
orchestra was a pity, but Thomas
Horton and Kevin Mcßeath did
a remarkably good job with the
instrumental score at two pianos.
❖ ❖ +>
“Madame Butterfly”
Gertrude Johnson’s produc-
tion of Puccini’s “Madame
Butterfly” is also included in the
repertoire of the National
Theatre season at Sydney Tiv.
It runs a smooth course, helped
greatly by stylish settings and,
in the title role, some beautiful
singing by Betty Fretwell, who
also captures much of the charm
and daintiness of the Japanese
girl.
Justine Rettick is in good
character an<r voice as Suzuki,
the maid, all compassion for her
mistress, and John Shaw is a
strong and sympathetic Sharp-
less ; but Lance Ingram makes
Pinkerton too callow and too
shallow a lover. Mr. Ingram’s
tenor is a good one, but, his-
trionically, anyway, he is sup-
posed to be sufficiently infatu-
ated with Cho-Cho-San to
marry her. He gives the im-
pression that he couldn’t care
less.
Lorenzo Nolan is a bustling
Goro, the marriage-broker,
Robert Allman an inscrutable
Yamadoro and Alan Eddy a
minatory and denouncing priest.
The orchestra, again, is a shade
heavy-handed, though not so
obviously as in “The Consul.”
♦♦♦
Yi-Kwei Sze
In Brisbane the names of Yi-
Kwei Sze and Boris Godounov
will be firmly linked for many
a year. The Chinese bass’s im-
personation of the Russian Mac-
beth is one of the finest pieces
of evening-dress singing and
acting seen for a long time.
Singing the “Death of Boris”
with the Queensland Symphony
Orchestra under Farnsworth
Hall, Sze built up most power-
fully the agony of Boris in his
final attempts to make peace
with his conscience.
The actor and singer were
prominent, too, in Moussorgsky’s
“Songs and Dances of Death.”
A subtle range of voice-shad-
ings gave stark pictures of
Death dancing a trepak with a
dying peasant, snatching a baby
from a protesting mother, woo-
ing in chilly fashion a young girl
and finally marshalling his new
recruits from among the dead
on a battlefield.
Artbursts
Displays of current fashions
continue in Melbourne’s art
world. Kenneth Hood’s show of
paintings and drawings at the
Lower Kozminsky Gallery, some
of them abstract and some more
or less distantly concerned with
Nature, might best be described
as jabberings in paint, if jabber-
ing be defined as nouns, verbs,
adjectives and prepositions and
sometimes whole sentences and
propositions slung together in no
discoverable relation.
The same applies to the show
of watercolors, gouache and oil
paintings of Jeff Smart at the
Peter Bray Gallery in Bourke-
street, though with modifications.
In Mr. Smart’s streets of terrace
houses, or groups of naked
figures standing stiffly on the
seashore or against a hoarding
for no apparent reason, there is
some attempt to give a thread
of meaning between the parts of
a picture, but the color generally
is too coarse and the drawing tdo
labored and academic.
An amusing commentary on
the modern movement is pro-
vided by a show of American
child art at the Town Hall. For
years the modernists have been
trying to return to the innocence
of the eyes of childhood. Now
the children are copying the
moderns, but, being less sophisti-
cated, some of them still have a
lot of spontaneous feeling.
Completely untouched by
current fashions is the joint exhi-
bition of Bertram Bryning,
Charles Crampton and Harold
Liddlelow at the Athenaeum.
Mr. Bryning gets some of the
texture of flowers into his
hydrangeas, petunias and rhodo-
dendrons, but has a tendency to
emphasise the factual, as does
Harold Liddlelow in his land-
scape. Charles Crampton is
livelier in his sketches, and gets
some of the vividness of light on
grass into his “Spring, Mernda.”
♦ J l'
Holding a show at Tye’s Gal-
lery, Melbourne, is Wallace
Anderson, the sculptor of the
“Man with the Donkey” at the
Shrine of Remembrance. His
current work is no advance on
that famous memorial, where it
is. a straightforward portraiture,
as in the bust of the late J, A.
Lyons. Where he is flirting with
the new forms, however, as in
“Avarice,” a crouching figure
with a brutal head and folded
arms squatting bulkily on his
human victims, there is a sug-
gestion of weight and mass.
Talkies
“Scandal at Scourie” (Sydney
St. James): Scourie being a
small Canadian town, the
scandal that of the political
variety whipped up by opponents
of the town’s leading citizen
when he and his wife, who are
Protestants, adopt a Roman
Catholic orphan girl.
This subject is handled with
admirable tact and delicacy. The
film derives its attractiveness
chiefly from the warmth and
naturalness of the domestic
scenes, which are dispensed with
practised ease by that old-
established man-and-wife team
Walter Pidgeon and Greer
Garson. There are inevitable
streaks of sentimentality, but
they have been touched-in with
a light brush.
* * ♦ *
“Ruby Gentry” (Sydney
Mayfair): Few creations in
filmdom are more boring than
the sultry female who one
moment is purring complacently
in the arms of her rugged lover,
and in the next is trying to
scratch his eyes put. And only
slightly-less trying is the purely
American motif of the social
misfit who cannot overcome the
stigma of having been bom “on
the wrong side of the tracks” —
apparently the primary object of
all railway-lines in the U.S. is to
separate the human sheep from
the goats.
In this routine bellerdrammer
there ,is a fusion of the two
themes. The socially-unaccept-
able lady is Jennifer Jones. Not
being able to get the man of her
choice, an aristo, she grabs on
the rebound an accommodating
dollar-fancier who is slightly
lower in the social strata, and
when he dies she uses his money
to ruin all those who had pre-
viously scorned her, including
her ex-boy-friend. It all ends in
a riot of mud-and-blood, her
religious-maniac brother being
the avenging angel-with-a-gun.
Charlton Heston is the lover
whose blood isn’t blue when it’s
spilled.
* * * *
“Assignment Paris” (Sydney
Victory): There is a meed of
excitement in this story of a
U.S. newspaperman who goes
from the Paris office of his paper
to Hungary to investigate the
jailing of a colleague. He ferrets
out photographic evidence of a
post-Stalin plot between Tito
and the Hungarian Premier, and
has it smuggled back to his
editor. He is arrested, tortured
and is about to be tried when his
editor casts up and uses the
evidence as a bargaining weapon
for his reporter’s release.
The plot leaks at divers points,
and it bears the burden of one
of those fabulous girl foreign
correspondents who combine
beauty and great brilliance.
Dana Andrews is the bold
reporter.
* * * *
“Three for Bedroom C”
(Sydney Esquire): Masters of
torture though they may be, the
Chinese and Russians never
devised anything as effective in
the art as having to sit through
this one. Gloria Swanson tries
to caper, simper and —worse
still —look like she did about
30 years ago, but the close-up
camera, used intolerably often,
is merciless. It’s all quite
pathetic. To deepen the agony,
there is eye-searing color, a
story that would insult the intel-
ligence of an eight-year-old, and
a poisonous brat with a voice
like a power-saw going through
tin.


"Dad and Dave" In The Original
ON OUR SELECTION
Dave’s Snakebite
By "STEELE RUDD" (ARTHUR H. DAVIS)
hot day, as we were
finishing dinner, a sheriff’s
bailiff rode up to the door.
Norah saw him first. She was
dressed up ready to go over to
Mrs, Anderson’s to tea. Some-
times young Harrison had tea at
Anderson’s—Thursdays, usually.
This was Thursday, and Norah
was starting early, because it was
“a good step of a way,” She
reported the visitor. Dad left
the table, munching some bread
and went out to him. Mother
looked out of the door, Sal went
to the window. Little Bill and
Tom peeped through a crack,
Dave remained at his dinner,
and Joe knavishly seized the
opportunity of exploring the
table for leavings, finally seating
himself in Dad’s place and com-
mencing where Dad had left off.
“Jury summons,” said the
meek bailiff, extracting a paper
from his breast pocket and
reading “ ‘Murtagh Joseph
Rudd, selector. Shingle Hut’ . . .
Correct?”
Dad nodded assent.
“Got any water?”
There wasn’t a drop in the
cask, so Dad came in and asked
Mother if there was any tea left.
She pulled a long, solemn,
Sunday-school face, and looked
at Joe, who was holding the tea-
pot upside-down, shaking the
tea-leaves into his cup,
“Tea, Dad?” he asked,
chuckling. “By golly! ”
Dad didn’t think it worth
while going out to the bailiff
again. He sent Joe,
“Not any at all?”
“Nothink,” said Joe.
“H’m! Nulla bona, eh?”
And the law smiled at its own
joke and went off thirsty.
Thus it was that Dad came to
be away one day when his great
presence of mind and ability as
a bush doctor were most
required at Shingle Hut.
Dave took Dad’s place at the
plough. One of the horses, a
colt that Dad bought with the
money he got for helping with
Anderson’s crop, had only just
been broken. He was bad at
starting. When touched with the
rein he would stand and wait
until the old furrow-horse put in
a few steps, then plunge to get
ahead of him. If a chain or a
swingle-tree or something else
djdn’t break, and Dave kept the
plough in, he ripped and tore
along in style, bearing in and
bearing out, and knocking the
old horse about till that much-
enduring animal became as
cranky as himself and the pace
terrible, Down would go the
plough-handles, and, with one
tremendous pull on the reins,
Dave would haul them back on
their rumps. Then he would
rush up and kick the colt on the
root of the tail, and if that didn’t
make him put his leg over the
chains and kick till he ran a hook
into his heel and lamed himself,
or broke something, it caused
him to rear up and fall back on
the plough and snort and strain
and struggle till there was not
a stitch left on him but the
winkers.
Now, if Dave was noted for
one thing more than another it
was for his silence. He scarcely
ever took the trouble to speak.
He hated to be asked a question,
and mostly answered by nodding
his head. Yet, though he never
seemed to practise, he could,
when his blood was fairly up,
swear with distinction and effect.
On this occasion he swore
through the whole afternoon
without repeating himself.
Towards evening Joe took the
reins and began to drive. He
hadn’t gone once round when,
just as the horses approached a
big dead tree,that had been left
standing in the cultivation, he
planted his left foot heavily upon
a Bathurst-burr that had been
cut and left lying. It clung to
him. He hopped along on one
leg, trying to kick it off. Still it
clung to him. He fell down.
The horses and the tree ggt
mixed up and everything was
confusion.
Dave abused Joe remorse-
lessly. “Go on!” he howled,
waving in the air a fistful of
grass and weeds which he had
pulled from the nose of the
plough. “Clear out of this alto-
gether. You’re only a damn’
nuisance.”
Joe’s eyes rested on the fistful
of grass. They lit up suddenly.
“L-l-look out, Dave,” he
stuttered, “y’-y’ got a s-s-snake.”
Dave dropped the grass
promptly. A death-adder
crawled out of it. Joe killed it.
Dave looked closely at his hand,
which was all scratches and
scars. He looked at it again;
then he sat on the beam of the
plough, pale and miserable-
looking.
“D-d-did it bite y\ Dave?”
No answer.
Joe saw a chance to distinguish
himself, and took it. He ran
home, glad to be the bearer of
the news, and said to Mother
“Dave’s got bit by a adder —a
sudden-death adder—right on
top o’ the finger.”
How Mother screamed! “My
God! Whatever shall we do?
Run quick,” she said, “and bring
Mr. Maloney. Dear, oh, dear,
oh, dear!”
Joe had not calculated on this
injunction. He dropped his head
and said sullenly “What, walk
all the way over there?”
Before he could say another
word a tin dish left a dint on
the back of his skull that will
accompany him to his grave if
he lives to be a thousand.
“You wretch, you! Why
don’t you run when I tell you?”
Joe sprang in the air like a
shot wallaby.
“I’ll not go at all now —y’
see!” he answered, starting to
cry. Then Sal put on her hat
and ran for Maloney.
Meanwhile Dave took the
horses out, walked inside and
threw himself on the sofa with-
out uttering a word. He felt ill.
Mother was in a paroxysm of
fright. She threw her arms
about frantically and cried for
someone to come. At last she
sat down and tried to think what
she could do. She thought of
the very thing, and ran for the
carving-knife, which she handed
to Dave with shut eyes. He
motioned her with a disdainful
movement of the elbow to take
it away.
Would Maloney never come?
He was coming, hat in hand,
and running for dear life across
the potato paddock. Behind him
was his man. Behind this man,
Sal, out of breath. Behind her,
Mrs. Maloney and the children.
“Phwat’s the thrubble?” cried
Maloney. “Bit be a difadher?
Oh, be the tares of war! ” Then
he asked Dave numerous ques-
tions as to how it happened,
which Joe answered with promp-
titude and pride. Dave simply
shrugged his shoulders and
turned his face to the wall.
Nothing was to be got out of
him.
Maloney held a short consul-
tation with himself. Then,
“Hould up y’r hand!” he said,
bending over Dave with a knife.
Dave thrust out his arm
violently, knocked the instru-
ment to the other side of the
room and kicked wickedly.
“The pison’s wurrkin’,”
whispered Maloney quite loud.
“Oh, my gracious!” groaned
Mother.
“The poor crathur,” said Mrs.
Maloney.
“Phwat finger’s bit?” asked
Maloney. Joe thought it was the
littlest one of the lot.
He approached the sofa again,
knife in hand.
“Show me y’r finger,” he said
to Dave.
For the first time Dave spoke.
He said, “Damn y’. What the
devil do y’ want? Clear out and
lea’ me ’lone.”
Maloney hesitated. There was
a long silence. Dave com-
menced breathing heavily.
“It’s makin’ ’im slape,” whis-
pered Maloney, glancing over
his shoulder at the women.
“Don’t let him! Don’t let
him!” Mother waited.
“Salvation to’s all! ” muttered
Mrs. Maloney, piously crossing
herself.
Maloney put away the knife
and beckoned to his man, who
was looking on from the door.
They both took a firm hold of
Dave and stood him upon his
feet. He looked hard and con-
temptuously at Maloney for
some seconds. Then with gravity
and deliberation Dave said
“Now what ’n the devil are y’
up t’? Are y’ mad ?”
“Walk ’im along, James —
walk ’im along,” was all Maloney
had to say. And out into the
yard they marched him. How
Dave did struggle to get away!
—swearing and cursing Maloney
for a cranky Irishman till he
foamed at the mouth, all of
which the other put down to
snake-poison. Round and round
the yard and up and down it they
trotted him till long after dark,
until there wasn’t a struggle left
in him.
They placed him on the sofa
again, Maloney keeping him
awake with a strap. How Dave
ground his teeth and kicked and
“The pison’s wurrkin ’,” whispered Maloney quite loud.
swore whenever he felt that
strap! And they sat and watched
him.
It was late in the night when
Dad came from town. He stag-
gered in with the neck of a bottle
showing out of his pocket. In
his hand was a piece of paper
wrapped round the end of some
yards of sausage. The dog out-
side carried the other end.
“An’ ’e ishn’t dead?” Dad
said, after hearing what had
befallen Dave. “Don’ b’leevsh
id. Wuzhn’t bit. Die ’fore
shun’own ifsh desh adder bish
’m.”
“Bit!” Dave said bitterly,
turning round to the surprise to
everyone. “I never said I was
bit. No one said I was, only
those snivelling idiots and that
pumpkin-headed Irish pig there.”
Maloney lowered his jaw and
opened his eyes.
“Zhackly. Didn’ I—hie—
shayzo, ’Loney? Didn’ I, eh,
ol’ wom’n?” Dad mumbled, and
dropped his chin on his chest.
Maloney began to take
another view of the matter. He
put a leading question to Joe.
“He muster been bit,” Joe
answered, “ ’cuz he had the
d-death-adder in his hand.”
More silence.
“Mush die ’fore shun’own,”
Dad murmured.
Maloney was thinking hard.
At last he spoke. “Bridgy!” he
cried. “Where’s the childer?”
Mrs. Maloney gathered them up.
Just then Dad seemed to be
dreaming. He swayed about.
His head hung lower and he
muttered “Shen’l’m’n, yoush
discharged with shanksh y’
coun’ry.”
The Maloneys left.
Dave is still alive and well
and silent as ever, and if any
one question is more intolerable
and irritating to him than
another, it is to be asked if he
remembers the time he was
bitten by a death-adder.
Dad and the Donovans
A SWELTERING summer’s
afternoon. A heat that
curled and jwithered the very
weeds. The corn-blades droop-
ing, sulking still. Mother and
Sal ironing, mopping their faces
with a towel and telling each
other how hot it was. The dog
stretched across the doorway,
A child’s bonnet on the floor,
the child out in the sun. Two
horsemen approaching the slip-
rails.
Dad had gone down the gully
to Farmer, who had been sick
for four days. The ploughing
was at a standstill in conse-
quence, for we had only two
draught-horses. Dad erected a
shelter over him, made of
boughs, to keep the sun off.
Two or three times a day he cut
greenstuff for him —which the
cows ate. He humped water to
him, which he sullenly refused
to drink, and did all in his power
to persuade Farmer to get up
and go on with the ploughing.
I don’t know if Dad knew any-
thing of mesmerism, but he used
to stand for long intervals
dumbly staring the old horse full
in the eyes till in a commanding
voice he would bid him “Get
up!” But Farmer lacked the
patriotism of the back-block
poets. He was obdurate, and
not once did he “awake,” not to
mention “arise.”
This afternoon, as Dad
approached his dumb patient, he
suddenly put down the bucket
of water which he was carrying
and ran, shouting angrily. A
flock of crows flew away from
Farmer and cawed from a tree
close by. Dad was excited, and
when he saw that one of the
animal’s eyes was gone and a
stream of blood trickled oyer its
nose he sat down and hid his
face in his big rough hands.
"Caw, caw!” came from the
tree.
Dad rose and looked up.
"Curse you! ” he hissed. You
black wretches of hell!”
"Caw, caw, caw!”
He ran towards the tree as
though he would hurl it to the
ground and away flew the crows.
Joe arrived.
“W-w-wuz they at him. Dad?.
(i Continued on page 30)


Calorific
Value
i
m
ss
PULVERISED FUEL FIRING-TYPE E MILLS
S 5
mswass
H
■
OIL AND
GAS BURNER
The calorific value of a fuel is realised to the
maximum degree as useful energy, only
through efficient combustion; and efficient
combustion must be sought in many different
ways with different fuels. No one has been
more closely concerned with the problem
than Babcock & Wilcox, the world’s leading
makers of steam-raising plant, who have, over
a period of 75 years, developed methods and
equipment for the most efficient burning of
the widest diversity of fuels both solid and
liquid, from coal and oil to bagasse and black
liquor.
m
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Office and Agencies in all States
Complete Steam Raising Plants
DF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR UNO & MARINE SERVICE
BOGEY PLAYS FOOTBALL
by John Graham
LOUNGING in his favorite
position in a patch of
shade by the galvanised-
iron wall of the old store,
Bogey mused, the hum of excited
voices all around him. Here
they were waiting for the head-
stockman to come out and throw
them the ball.
Flay football? They couldn’t
play football. Only he knew
how to do that. Didn’t he
always have to shout instruc-
tions to them? Not that he
wanted to play himself. He was
only a short little fellow and
not very strong, and he could
not see why he should go look-
ing for work amongst a lot of
rough fellows who had a very
distressing habit of throwing
their feet and arms about any-
where at all.
It was better for him really
to recline with his little short
hands folded across his cauldron
stomach and decline their in-
vitation by remarking; “Plenty
blackfella there, ain’t it? No
good too many. You all-about
play play. Bogey watchem.”
Yet he always came as though
prepared in a pair of worn-out
dungarees which hung low on
his hips, adding to the
grotesqueness of that little bowl
of fat.
But today the head-stockman,
instead of throwing the ball into
the waiting, excited group, as
was his custom, walked out on
to the flat with the ball under his
arm and a whistle in his mouth.
This seemed like a good omen
to Bogey: a sign of being some-
thing like a game. Besides, the
boss and his missus suddenly
appeared on the veranda of the
bungalow and Bogey caught
them in the corner of his eye.
He got up and stretched himself
lazily. “Bogey play,” he an-
nounced majestically, and hitch-
ing up his trousers, raced after
the head-stockman.
He raced past the head-
stockman, something he would
never dream of doing in working
hours, to prop abruptly like a
brumby at a position mid-way
between a straggling currant-
bush and the old bauhinia-tree
near the house. This was the
kicking-off mark, where gene-
rally a wild rush ensued with
nobody managing to kick the
ball. Now he pulled up his
trousers above his paunch and
so revealed his thin, whipstick
legs below and grinned as they
quietly slid down to his hips
again.
By this time the station was
humming with a fresh activity
and blacks came running from
all directions, even from as far
as the camp beyond the currant-
bush a quarter mile away. They
gathered in small excited groups
in Bogey’s favorite position by
the old store.
After much talking, laughing
and chiacking they sorted them-
selves out, deciding which sides
they would take, no one noticing
at the time that there were
thirteen on one side and ten on
the other.
There was no preamble. The
head-stockman put down the
ball, adjusted his whistle, and
stepped back.
“Kick!” he said shortly.
'T'HE game was on. There was
a wild rush for the ball, a
scramble, and twenty-three black
heads went down in a heap in
the dust, wriggling and kicking,
with Bogey on the bottom.
“Coo, coo!” spluttered Bogey,
sticking his head up between
someone else’s legs and gasping
for air. “Hey, don’ do like
that all-about. Bime-bye boy
get a kill here.”
No one took notice of that.
Bogey untangled himself and
got up with the ball. “See, all-
about,” he cried gleefully, hold-
ing the ball high above his head,
“I bin get ’im.”
Just then someone rushed in,
placed his palm under Bogey’s
squat nose and pushed him over
on his back. The ball went fly-
ing. The crowd yelled with
delight. Bogey sat up and
rubbed his nose. All right, all
right; he could wait. “Bloody
black cow!” he muttered, sitting
there to watch the play swing
away towards the currant-bush.
Then quietly he began taking
off his boots.
He got up, tugged at his
trousers, which began to slide
down again, arid waited for the
return of the ball. There wasn’t
much sense in running down
there now when some silly cow
would kick the ball back here.
“Goo on, Bogey,” the crowd
yelled. “Catchem up! ”
He turned to survey them, his
little black body glistening in
the sun. He waved his hand.
“Tha’s orrite. Let ’em come my
way, tha’s all.”
Just then the whistle blew.
His opponents had scored a try.
There was no goal to be
kicked, as there were actually no
goal-posts; besides, tallying of
scores in threes or fives was
absolutely beyond the black
mind. It was then Bogey noticed
there were more players on the
other side than there were on
his. He couldn’t count very
well, but if his side had as many
as the opposition he’d eat his
old stock hat. So he quietly got
up and mingled with the oppo-
sition.
The ball came bouncing along
the ground straight towards him,
and he grabbed it up and started
off, his spindly legs throwing the
dust up behind. But the whistle
pulled him up.
“Gawd’s struth!” shouted the
head-stockman. “What the hell
’re you doing there? You don’t
belong that side. Bogey.”
“Ain’t it?” said Bogey with
feigned surprise.
“You-ai! ” chorused his mates,
“You currant-bush side no more
bauhinia-tree! ”
“More better me play bau-
hinia-tree,” said Bogey seriously,
pointing back over his shoulder,
“my poot this side.”
The head-stockman was easy,
“Well, stop on that side then.”
“My bloody oath,” returned
Bogey quickly, and went back
to put his boots on.
■OUT ly the time he got there
a pot-bellied piccaninny had
beaten him to them and was
walking away towards the crowd
at the store very pleased with
himself in his big boots.
“Hey, you!” shrieked Bogey,
“no more you takem my poot.
You come back. Quick fella
now. Bogey wantem show all-
abbut play football prop’ly
fella.”
“You bin takem off, ain’t it?”
demanded the kid.
“I bin takem off orrite. My
poot, ain’t it?”
“Wha’s matter you puttem on
now?”
Bogey was nonplussed for a
moment. “Now look, you kid.
No more you takem my poot.
S’posem me wearem poot, me
wearem poot. I comes play the
football. I plays the football.
Come on now, quick fella, quick
fella.”
The kid left it at that and
Bogey went plodding off down-
field. A huge figure suddenly
emerged from the ruck and was
away with the ball. It looked
so like a certain try that no one
bothered to chase him, and they
all sat down. Bogey in the fair-
way didn’t have to be a white
man to know that discretion
was the better part of valor. He
halted casually.
The big fellow wasn’t sure;
he eased up a litle.
“Which way you go, mate?”
Bogey asked with determined
calm.
“Longa bauhinia-tree,” panted
the other.
“Wul, wha’s matter you run?
Plenty time. Boy no more
chasem you.”
“Ain’t it?” queried the big
buck. He halted wide of Bogey
and glanced back. “Hey, wha’s
matter all-about?”
“Too much you race away
longa meself. Dat no good.
More better mak e m fun.
Chuckem ball longa mate.”
The big fellow looked at him
closely. “What you talk mate?
No more mate catch up longa
me.”
“You’n me mate, ain’t it?”
suggested Bogey venturing a
little closer. “ ’Member time
longa limestone yard where bull
bin chasem you. ’Member?
Two-time round yard you bin
run, hard fella, hard fella. You
bin big fright longa that bull.
First time bull bin chasem you.
Second time you bin catch up
longa that bull now.”
Light dawned slowly on the
big buck. Then he grinned
broadly. He put out a big hand
and pushed Bogey gently on file
chest: “Aah, Bog-ey, Bog-ey,
you funny fella!”
“Now who mate belonga
you?” insisted Bogey without
change of expression. “Who
bin chuckem dust longa that
bull’s eye, eh? Who bin
chuckem dust? Me, Bogey. An’
you bin get away, ain’t it?
S’posem Bogey no more bin
there, what you do, eh?”
The big fellow dropped his
eyes. He shuffled in the dust
with his toes. “Aw, criste.
Bogey. . .”
Bogey moved quickly. He
punched the ball clean out of
the fellow’s hands, seized it, and
made off. The pack came up
with a wild yell. Bogey gave a
short punt over their heads, his
boot flying off at a tangent. He
picked a gap and went straight
through, seized the ball again,
and raced on to touch down at
the currant-bush unhindered.
The crowd yelled itself hoarse.
TTE wanted to stride proudly
back with the sound ringing
in his ears. But he decided it
would be better to wait a while:
he didn’t quite know how some
of them back there would take
it. He kicked the ball to them
and sat down.
There was his boot. He had
to get that. There was also that
fellow that pushed him over.
He had to get him, too.
After what seemed a long
time the play came his way again
and quite meekly he slipped into
the scrum. He thought he had
done that very well. But a black
face shot up close to his.
“You bin play cheat longa
me.”
Bogey drew back a little.
“Ah, mate, all fun, you know.
What about you’n me forgettin’
about it?”
“You bloody rogue, you
Bog-ey. I catchem you.”
“Don’ sink so,” said Bogey
shortly and pulled off his re-
maining boot. If the fellow
wanted a run for it Bogey
wasn’t going to be hindered by
a boot.
But just at the moment the
big fellow was too eager to get
the ball. It trickled loose. He
rose to pick it up and fumbled
it.
The head-stockman caught
that one. “Knock-on!” he said.
“More better knock - off,”
Bogey remarked. “Blackfeller
gettin’ plurry hot round here
now.”
The game went on at a
furious pace with so many
players off-side and so many
knock-ons that by the time the
head-stockman had sorted out
which player was on what side
and what breach he was guilty
of another set of players with
infringements came under his
notice. Besides, it began to seem
to his bewildered mind that
nearly all the players now were
on the winning side. He began
to wonder who the vanquished
would be.
But as far as Bogey could see
it was a case of every man for
himself and the devil take the
hindmost; and that wasn’t going
to be he. If he could only get
his boot out of that scrum —he
could see it now, but he couldn’t
follow the leg back far enough
to ascertain just who was wear-
ing it. Still he could wait. He
felt he would get this black coon
pretty soon now.
Bit by bit the players began to
disentangle themselves and bit
by bit Bogey could see that leg
emerging until the whole body
of the man was visible. He
smiled slowly. It was that
damned cheeky cow who had
pushed him flat on his back.
And he had the ball; and getting
away too. It couldn’t have been
better. Bogey slung out his bare
foot and put him squarely
enough on his face. And then
the pack was on him again like
hungry wolves all in for the kill.
VERY quietly Bogey stooped
down and retrieved his
boot.
He tied the laces and slung
the boots around his neck. And
without his wanting it the ball
came floating up to him. Sud-
denly, filled with the strategy of
his little conquests, he grasped
it and sped for the currant-
bush.
He was so eager, he had for-
gotten. Just behind him now
came the rapid thumping of feet,
the sound of labored breathing,
a croaking voice at his back.
“Haah, Bogey, ole man! You
bin cheating me, eh?”
A grip on his trousers. A
wild tug. A tearing and a
sudden coldness around his
thighs and down his legs. The
riotous laughter. And filled
with an awful shame he sped
for the camp in true primitive
dress, his boots flogging his face,
away past the currant-bush,
where he forgot to touch the
ball down..


Commonwealth
sdf
of Australia
REGISTRATION FOR
NATIONAL SERVICE
KOTICETOMEN ATTAINING THE AH OF 18 YEARS
BETWEEN Ist SEPT, and 31st DECEMBER. 1953
Under the National Service Act 1951-1953, all male persons,
not exempt under the Act from liability to register, who are
British subjects and ordinarily resident in Australia and who
will attain the age of 18 years between Ist September, 1953,
and 31st December, 1953 (both dates inclusive), ARE
REQUIRED TO REGISTER BETWEEN 17th AUGUST AND
31st AUGUST, 1953.
A person who has arrived and intends to make his home in Australia is
regarded as ordinarily resident in Australia as from the time of his arrival.
A person who is absent from Australia during the period within which he
is required to register, must register within 14 days after his return.
If a person required to register is insane or so mentally or physically
incapacitated as to be unable to register personally, the person in whose
charge he is for the time being must do so on his behalf.
the_penaltiesj£rescribedjji^^
EXEMPTIONS
The only exemptions from liability to register are:—
(a) Persons on full-time duty with the Permanent Defence Forces,
(b) Diplomatic personnel specified in Section 18 of the Act,
(c) Aboriginal natives of Australia including half-castes, and persons of
’aboriginal extraction living as aborigines.
EARLY REGISTRATION
If a male person of 17 years of age has good reason for wishing to
commence his National Service training without waiting until he is required
to register, he may apply to register early even though he is not 18,
Further details may be obtained from the National Service Registration Office
or any District Employment Office.
HOW TO REGISTER
Registration Forms (Forms N.S. 1) are available at all Money Order Post
Offices and District Employment Offices. Addresses of the latter offices
are in telephone directories. Detailed instructions on how to register are
in the Registration Form and the sheet (N.S, 1A) attached to it.
VNSR&U&73
a New Science
by H.a. Lindsay
FOSS TEMBY stopped the
truck in the shade of a
clump of roadside pine-
trees and stared at one of
the near-by paddocks. Looking
in the same direction, his mother
could see nothing save shimmer-
ing heat-waves and a patch of
vivid green among the surround-
ing yellow of grass dried out by
summef heat.
“What is it?” she inquired.
“That Palestine-clover on
McKenzie’s place.” He pointed
towards the green area. “It’s
still growing. Mind waiting
while I walk across to look at
it?”
Mrs, Temby didn’t make an
immediate reply. Flies were in-
vading the cab of the old truck,
a morning spent shopping in the
little town had made her very
tired and she wanted to get
home, make herself a cup of tea
and lie down for half an hour
before lunch.
“Couldn’t you do it some
other time?” she suggested.
“It’s pretty important.
Mother.” His young face, under
a fnop of crinkly yellow hair,
wore a serious expression. “This
new clover is wonderful stuff, by
what you hear. In winter it
grows on swampy ground where
everything else gets drowned
out, yet it keeps on growing in
the summer, when the rest of
the grass is all dead. Look at
that paddock over there. You’d
think it was irrigated lucerne.
If we had it growing on our
blackberry flat we’d soon make
a bit of money.”
“Don’t be any longer than
you can help, then,” she said,
reaching for the newspaper on
the ledge behind the truck seat.
When Poss returned, he carried
a bundle of clover-runners and
leaves.
“Just look at it. This is a
single plant. I’ve never seen
anything like it —”
“For heaven’s sake, let’s get
moving before you start talking
about it.” his mother interrupted.
“I’m nearly roasted, these
beastly flies are just about eating
me —•”
Poss shoved the plant into his
hat, laid it on the seat between
them and drove off.
“I must get a bit of that seed
from McKenzie,” he remarked.
“I’m sure it’d do well on our
flat. There’s a bit of a story
about how this clover came to
Australia. Seems a Light Horse
trooper saw it growing in Pales-
tine, back in the first war. He
reckoned it’d grow anywhere
else if it grew in the Holy Land,
where it’s nearly all desert, so he
brought a matchbox of the seed
home with him. Sure enough,
it’s a world-beater out here.”
“You think we could run a
few more cows if we had it
growing?”
“More cows?” Poss scoffed.
“Not on your life. There’s an
easier way. You keep the stock
off it and let it go to seed, then
you harvest it. The seed brings
twenty-five bob a pound. We
might get two or
three hundred quid’s
worth off our flat.”
Mrs. Temby
sighed. Poss was
very like his dead
father always liv-
ing in hopes of better
times to come.
Thank heaven, the
boy hadn’t been
bitten by the
prospecting - bug.
though . . .
“Pity Dad wasn’t the one to
bring back that seed,” Poss re-
marked.
“While he was away, he
probably spent all his spare-time
in doing what he did here—
hunting for gold,” Mrs. Temby
said sadly.
'THE clover-field browned-off
A in the autumn ; Poss walked
across from the road when he
saw the threshing-machine at
work there. McKenzie, a
powdering of dust accentuating
the harsh lines of his face, was
filling one calico sack after
another with the fine brown seed.
“What is it?” he said irritably,
raising his voice to be heard
above the whirr of The machine.
“I’d like to buy a few pounds
of this seed.”
“I’m not in the retail busi-
ness,” McKenzie growled, with
the contempt which some owners
of big properties exhibit towards
those who struggle for a living
by running a few cows on
twenty acres. He hesitated,
then grabbed the billycan the
youngster carried and held it
under the spout of the grain-
hopper for a few seconds.
“There you are—clear out.”
he snapped.
Poss, a flush of humiliation
darkening his face, held out
some pound notes. “And I’m
not in the cadging business,”
he retorted.
McKenzie took three of them,
stuffed them into his hip pocket
with the air of one who regarded
the sum as chicken-feed, then
turned his back on the visitor.
He felt a bit put out over the
business. It wouldn’t have hurt
him to make the lad a present
in a decent kind of a way, he
thought, but it was too late
now
“You paid three pounds for
this,” cried Mrs. Temby, when
she saw the small quantity of
seed. The boy had parted with
a third of their weekly cream-
cheque.
“Don’t worry,” he said con-
fidently as he replaced the lid on
the billycan and stowed it away
in the pantry. “We’ll get it back
a hundred times over.”
He turned to his young
brother. “We’ll shake hands
with a bit of hard yakka as soon
as we get a good rain, Skeet.
Blackberry flat’s got to be
ploughed, cultivated and har-
rowed till it’s worked down like
an onion-bed.”
Skeet opined that it would be
labor in vain. “It’s never grown
anything as far back as I can
remember. Don’t reckon it’ll
ever grow anything, either. Look
how the lucerne and sub.-clover
Dad put there got drowned-out,”
Mrs. Temby agreed with him.
“I do wish you hadn’t insisted
on grubbing-out all the nice
blackberry-bushes that used to
grow there, Poss, At least they
used to give us a bit of fruit for
jam.”
Her older son refused to be
discouraged. “I know what I’m
doing,” he told them.
TT was a long job to cultivate
the three-acre flat with small,
old-fashioned implements towed
behind the truck. When it was
done Poss spread a bit of can-
vas on the kitchen-table, scat-
tered the seed on it and poured
some skim-milk into a small
bottle of bacteria-culture which
he had got from the De-
partment of Agriculture. He
recorked it and shook it
vigorously.
“I can’t understand these new-
fangled ideas,” said his mother.
“My father could make things
grow without buying stuff to
inoculate the seed.”
“He also got around in a
horse-drawn sulky and milked
cows by hand,” Poss pointed
out. “This is a specially-bred
culture of nitrogen-fixing bac-
teria.” He sprinkled it on the
seed as he spoke. “It’ll make
this clover build up the soil-
fertility in half the usual time
—and grow a lot better while it
does it, too.”
His face wore a happy grin
when he saw the excellent ger-
mination of the seed. He and
Skeet had broadcast it by hand,
tramping to and fro with tin
buckets slung from their necks,
then it had been covered by tow-
ing a home-made log-roller over
the ground. Now, averaging a
yard apart, tiny, paddle-shaped
juvenile leaves were pushing
through the damp black soil.
Soon the long, pointed leaf-
lets of the adult leaves appeared,
followed by stolons which ran
out to cover the bare ground
between the plants with a criss-
cross of runners.
“This is why they call it
strawberry-clover,” Poss ex-
plained to his mother. “See how
it sends-down roots from every
joint?” He looked over the little
paddock. “Shouldn’t be sur-
prised if we made four hundred
quid out of the seed.”
Mrs. Temby smiled wistfully
as she looked at his eager face.
How often had she heard the
same thing from his father.
“Don’t build too much on it,
dear,” she warned. “Grubs and
beetles might eat it all —or the
price of the seed could go down
to tuppence a pound.”
IIfINTER rains soon covered
most of the flat with shal-
low sheets of water, but it didn’t
kill-out the new clover, as Poss
had forecast. “You’d think the
damn’ stuff was watercress!”
Poss marvelled after sloshing
around the paddock in rubber
boots.
The rate of growth increased
when the warm spring days
arrived; by Christmas the
ground was hidden under a
dense mat of stems and leaves,
covered with tiny pink blossoms
in which bees hummed all
through the daylight hours. Poss
went off to interview the only
man in the district who har-
vested pasture-seeds by contract.
“I might be able to fit in one
more lot if the weather keeps
right,” said the contractor,
taking out his notebook, “How
many acres?”
“Just on three.”
“What, three hundred?”
“No. Just plain three.”
The contractor gave him a
pitying smile and repocketed his
notebook. “Sorry, son, but I
wouldn’t shift my plant across
the road to take seed off a cab-
bage-patch that size.”
Mrs. Temby knew something
had gone wrong as soon as she
saw her son’s face. She heard
what he had to say without
comment. It was always the
same in their family; none of
these dreams ever came true.
“I knew there’d be a catch
somewhere,” Skeet remarked.
“Cheer up! It won’t be a dead
loss. The cows can graze it off
now and it’ll save having to
chop the ensilage out of that
blasted stack for a while,”
Two days later, still down-
cast from the setback, Poss went
out to fetch the cows for the
morning milking. Walking across
the clover, he kicked moodily at
a cake of dry manure. It broke
into chips. He glanced idly at a
fragment which fell ahead, then
stooped to pick it up. It was
literally full of the fine seed.
A memory stirred in his mind;
after a time he recalled what it
was. His father had described
how the Bedouins in Sinai broke
camel-manure into pieces, picked
the barley-grains out of it and
used them to make bread. He
crumbled the chip in his hand.
Perhaps you could winnow the
seed out of the manure if you
had a machine to crush it and
sift it....
The great idea came to him as
he looked at some fresh manure
on the cowshed-floor. He
scooped it up with the shovel
and was about to let the tap run
on it when he thought of his
father’s old gold-washing pan.
Three minutes later he gave the
brown liquid in the dish a final
swirl, spilled it over the edge,
then stared at a thick swathe of
clover-seed. Couple of table-
spoons there, he estimated.
There’d be mighty good wages
in panning-out the seed.
“Skeet!” he said excitedly.
“Don’t put the cows back on
the clover. Give ’em ensilage!
I’ll have to leave you to do the
cleaning-up, Fm going into the
town soon’s I’ve had break-
fast.”
TJE had some trouble in getting
a dozen bags of cement
in the town, but he managed
to talk the owner of the
hardware-store into letting him
have them. Arriving home,
he unloaded the paper sacks,
then drove off again to get sand
and gravel from the creek.
“I’m just about fed-up with
this brainwave,” Skeet grumbled
next morning, sweat shining on
his freckled face after mixing
concrete for two hours.
“You often wish you had a
motor-bike,” Poss replied.
“When you wake up you’ll find
this is your chance to get one.”
The job was finished three
days later. It was a concrete
floor twenty feet square with a
curb around it. Just outside this
was a stout fence with a gate at
one end. It had been built
alongside the windmill-stand.
Poss then went off to see Tim
O’Dea, an elderly widower who
made a living by stock-dealing.
“Those cattle are mighty
poor,” he commented, looking
at some twenty bullocks and
spayed cows in the near-by pad-
dock.
“Yairs,” Tim agreed. “Got
’em pretty cheap, though. They’ll
(i Continued on page 24)


EASIER
IRRIGATION
with
The
Revolutionary
PRESSURE-
LOCKING
Ames
Ball
Coupler
PAT. APPLIED FOB
£
MAKES FIELD
CONNECTIONS
AS EASY AS ABC!
GET FULL DETAILS FROM
Dangar Gedye & Malloch ltd.
10-14 YOUNG STREET (Nr. Circular Quay) SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 509, Phone BU 5095.
Branches: Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay.
GD2I
Joy-RIDE
by a.c. Heaclley
“ I LIKE fellers with cars,”
the girl in the milk-bar
| said.
The words ate into
Virgie’s satisfaction with himself
and lessened the glow of being
eighteen and of being Virgie
Devereaux. He had no defence
against this feeling and he was
aware of a forceless, flat anger.
He looked at the girl across the
counter. Through the bulge in
her starched white uniform he
could see, without looking, the
place where a brassiere tightened
and bellied the flesh of her
breasts.
When he glanced up, his eyes
met the echo of her amusement
as a hand flattened the material
against the brown skin of her
neck. Virgie felt warmth in his
face. He looked around the
milk-bar, trying to think of
something to say to cover his
discomfiture and restore to him
the pride of being Virgie
Devereaux. He caught her eyes
looking at him from one of the
mirrors along the wall and he felt
a tightening of anger.
“Pick you up around eight,”
he said flatly. “We’ll go for a
drive.”
'T'HE cars in the street were
1 shining beetles against the
darkness. For half an hour
Virgie Devereaux watched them.
There was a leathery dryness in
his mouth, and he was aware of
a growing sense of unreality. In
a matter of minutes he made up
and changed his mind more than
a dozen times. Now he licked
his lips, looked at his watch,
then looked at it again to find
the time. It came as a shock of
discovery that it W!as nearing
eight o’clock. He started walk-
ing, without sound, along the
sheet.
Near the car the houses
seemed to be in complete dark-
ness, Virgie moved in against a
tree and waited. His fingers
touched against the keys in his
pocket. It had been no trouble
to slip them into his overalls
when he had finished for the
afternoon at the parking-
station. A minute went by. He
moved from the tree into the
shadow of the car. He tried a
key in the lock. Along from
him a gate clicked and he froze.
A man walked away along the
footpath.
Breath eased back into his
lungs. He waited for the man
to turn the comer, then he was
busy with the keys again. There
came the click of a moving lock.
He opened the door and slipped
in behind the wheel.
The starter-motor was a crash
of sound against the silence.
The roar of it filled his ears. He
threw the car into gear and
gunned the motor to pick up
speed. Before he came to the
end of the street he gave a swift
look back. Behind him the street
was still deserted and undis-
turbed. In the light from the
dashboard he looked at his
watch. Ten to eight,
Rita was talking to one of the
girls in the milk-bar. He moved
over beside her.
“When you’ve got a bit of
time,” he said.
She twisted her head.
“Oh, it’s you.”
“Who’d you think it’d be . , .
the King of England?”
“Sarcasm’s the cheapest form
of wit.”
Virgie grinned.
“We’re going for that drive I
promised you,” he said.
She was pleased with the car.
She walked around it admiring
the sharp gloss of duco and
chroipium. She caught her arm
through his and they looked at it
together. A policeman turned
into the street a few yards up
from them. Virgie freed him-
self from the girl.
“I gotter get smokes.”
“Tell Mavis I said to give you
Australians,” she called after
him.
jTTE waited until the policeman
had passed the entrance to
the milk-bar, then he came back
to the street, irritated with him-
self at the brief show of panic.
He held the door for her and she
climbed in. A minute later he
eased the car out into the traffic
stream.
The girl said “Let’s get right
out of the city. Let’s go some-
where where we can get a drink.”
It reminded him that he needed
a drink. The drinks he had had
before six o’clock had died on
him long ago. There was a taste
in his mouth.
“I could do with a drink,” he
said.
His foot pressed a little more
firmly against the accelerator and
he drove for half an hour. The
darkness of bushland replaced
the pattern of outer-suburban
houses. The anxiety of being
in the city was leaving him. He
was aware that the car was filled
with a perfume that was faintly
sickening. The girl moved closed
to him.
“What’s the number of your
car?” she said softly.
For a moment he didn’t realise
what she was getting at. He
felt the slight increase in the
pressure of her body against his.
He eased his foot away from the
accelerator and turned his head
towards her. She was smiling
mockingly.
“Think of a number,she
said, “double it and take away
the first number you thought of.
You won’t know the answer even
then.”
“I never could remember
figures,” he defended.
“We’ll let it go at that,” she
said with exaggerated patience.
He took his left arm away
from the wheel and brought her
closer to him. His fingers found
the round compactness of her
through the thin material of her
blouse.
“What the hell do you mean
about the number of the car?”
“You wouldn’t know anything
about pinching cars by any
chance?” She made no attempt
to move away from him. “You
wouldn’t know anything about
that, would you?”
Virgie swallowed hard.
“What if I did?”
He felt the shrug of her
shoulders. She reached across
and patted his hand.
“Cars bring good prices these
days. I know a feller in the
game.”
In that instant he could think
of nothing to say. He touched
his foot on the accelerator.
The car picked up speed and
swept around a curve in the
road. Ahead lights from the
hotel were sharp and bright
against the blackness of the hills.
He allowed the car to drop
speed.
'THE few people in the lounge
•*- looked at them curiously as
they came in. Virgie picked a
table near the door and they sat
down. He offered her a cigarette
and lit one himself, then he
allowed his eyes to drift around
the small lounge. The two men
drinking on their own in the
corner were watching the girl.
One of them said something and
they both laughed. Virgie felt
his face begin to warm.
“Where’s the bloody waiter?”
he said.
“Can’t complain about the
service,” the girl said. “There
isn’t any.” She spoke loudly so
that the men in the corner could
hear and appreciate her smart-
ness. One of the men looked up
and grinned. She turned back
to Virgie.
“Might be a bell or some-
thing.”
The man who had grinned
climbed to his feet, and walked
across to the door along the
side of the lounge.
“Mick,” he called, “you got
customers.”
A minute later Mick appeared
carrying a tray. He took their
orders and returned with the
drinks. They sipped them
slowly. The beer was almost
lukewarm, and after he had
tasted a mouthful he noticed the
lipstick mark scalloped around
the rim of his glass. He smeared
it away with his thumb, and
gulped the rest of the beer.
“You ought’ve slung it in his
face,” Rita said. “They think
they can get away with anything
these days.”
She said it loudly so that the
men in the corner could hear.
One of them laughed, and she
looked across ,as though in
acceptance of a tribute to her
smartness. Virgie was conscious
of a simmering of irritation.
Oddly, it was directed at him-
self. There was no longer any
satisfaction for him in being
Virgie Devereaux. He felt sud-
denly lost and ill at ease.
It was the feeling he had had
when she had declared that she
liked fellers with cars. In the
same way, now, was the need
of making a gesture. He realised
suddenly that this was the pattern
of his living. It was the desire
to show them that they had been
wrong in their assessment of
Virgie Devereaux. It brought to
him the importance of the glass
smeared with lipstick. There was
need for regaining the ground
he had lost. He climbed to his
feet and stalked across to the
door.
“Mick!” he demanded.
There were vague sounds from
the back, then the waiter came.
“You take your time,” Virgie
said.
Mick shrugged thin shoulders.
“You don’t like it, mate, you
know what you can do.”
VIRGIE swallowed hard.
Warmth flooded into his
face.
“Okay. Okay. Can’t a feller
have a joke?”
“I laugh when they're funny,”
the waiter said. “I laugh real
loud.” In the same way as the
girl he looked around him for
approval of his smartness. A
chuckle came from the corner
of the lounge. He grinned and
returned his attention to Virgie.
“Okay, what d’ y’ want?”
There was no time to think.
There was no tinje for his mind
to seize on anything but the
urgency of the question. Anger
was no longer part of him. His
throat was tight and dry. When
he spoke it was an effort to keep
the natural note in his voice.
“Could we get another couple
of beers?”
Mick vanished into the dark-
ness beyond the small lounge.
Virgie came back to his seat at
• the table. He sat down heavily.
The girl said: “Some of these
blokes want their teeth shoved
down their throat. They treat
you like dirt.”
He wasn’t listening to her. The
sickness in his spirit was greater
than he had ever known. His
mind was busy thinking of the
things he could have said. He
wanted to get away from this
place. He wanted to get away
from these people who would
turn their heads away if he hap-
pened to look up. Most of all
he wanted to get away from his
own spinelessness.
Someone laughed, and he
looked up quickly, sure that it
had been directed at him. He
was in time to catch the girl
winking at one of the men in the
corner. Anger flamed suddenly
inside of him.
“Let’s get out of this bloody
hole,” he said sharply.
She looked at him with
amusement in her eyes.
“We’ve got drinks coming up.
Remember?”
“He knows what he can do
with them.”'
She frowned.
“I thought we came out for a
bit of fun.”
“There’s more pubs than one.”
Her glance strayed to the two
men in the corner.
“I like it here,” she said
loudly.
The waiter came back and
placed the beers on the table in
front of them. Virgie paid him
and pocketed the change. Mick
went across to the men in the
corner. He took their order and
vanished into the darkness be-
hind the doorway. Virgie picked
up his glass and took a deep
swallow. When he set the glass
back on the table he felt better,
WWT ISTEN,” he said, “we
could go to the Hydro or
somewhere.”
“I like it here,” she insisted.
He was aware, with a touch ol
surprise, that the waiter had
come back to the table. He
watched him place a glass of
beer before the girl.
The waiter said: “The gents
in the corner would like the lady
to have a drink with them.”
For a moment he felt cold
(Continued on page 24)


BRAND OF PHENOTHIAZINE
THE MOST EFFICIENT
WORM DRENCH
COMPARE FOR YOURSELF THE FIGURES SHOWN IN THE FOLLOWING
TABLE INDICATING THE PERCENTAGE OF WORMS REMOVED FROM SHEEP
One of a series of advertisements designed to convey
as a simple story the results of many years of research.
Acknowledgement is made to many research workers
whose results have been published in the Australian
Veterinary Journal and elsewhere.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND UNITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
1C
PHE 12X.3434
put on condition when a rain
brings up a bit o’ feed.”
“I’ll put it on them right
now,” Poss offered. “I’ve got
three acres of clover to eat down.
We can’t put the milkers on it—
the cream gets a crook flavor.”
“H’m,” Tim grunted. “I can’t
afford to pay nothin’ f’r pad-
dockin’ ”
“You won’t have to. I’ll
drive the cattle across to our
place and they’ll have a bit of
fat on their ribs when I bring
them back.” To explain his
apparent generosity he added;
“This new clover’s funny stuff.
If you don’t eat off this season’s
growth you’ll have a mighty poor
stand of it next year,”
'T'HE lean cattle took one look
at the mat of Palestine-clover
on Blackberry Flat, then they
laid back their ears and waded-
in. When they could eat no
more Poss jammed them all on
to his little concrete-floored yard
and left them there until it was
hock-deep in slushy manure.
The cattle then went back to the
paddock to get another bellyful
of clover.
The two boys spent the inter-
val in rigging-up their father’s
old gold-washing sluice-box be-
side the yard, then Poss shovelled
the pianure into it while Skeet
manipulated the hose to wash
the stuff gently along the wooden
trough. Every few minutes Poss
had a breathing-spell until the
water in the box ran clean, then
he scooped up the deposits of
seed which had collected behind
the riffle-bars. When the last
of the manure had been washed
the seed was spread thinly on a
tarpaulin to dry in the shade.
“Over thirty pounds weight,”
Poss estimated, when he put the
seed into a drum that evening.
“At twenty-five bob a pound,
there’s nearly forty quid—and
those hungry-gutted cattle of old
Tim’s haven’t made any impres-
sion on the clover yet.”
Mrs. Tern by was incredulous.
“There’ll be a catch in it. There
always is,” she said as she sewed-
up some small calico-bags to
hold the seed.
“Not this time, Mother,” her
older son assured her.
“Hey, I reckon this is a new
science,” Skeet chuckled as they
washed another lot of manure
next day. “I’ve got a name for
it, too. How about calling it
dungology?”
TT took twelve days for the
cattle to eat the paddock bare,
and the total weight of seed,
done up in ten-pound bags, was
four hundred pounds. Poss rang
the stock-agent and asked him
if he thought he could sell it.
“Sell it?” echoed the voice at
the other end of the wire. “Why,
I’ve got one man alone who’s
after a quarter of a ton of it!”
“It’ll have to be a cash deal,”
Poss stipulated, trying to keep
his voice steady.
“0.K.,” the agent agreed. “I’ll
run out after tea to pick it up.”
“I still can’t believe it’s true,”
Mrs. Temby quavered, her thin
hands trembling as she held the
cheque. The agent had taken
twenty-five pounds as his com-
mission, but it still left four
hundred and seventy-five pounds,
“You’ve got to deduct the
expenses,” Poss pointed out.
“Three quid for the seed, a
tenner for the super, and what I
paid for the cement”
“Well, take off the seventy-
five to be on the safe side,”
Skeet put in. “It still leaves
four hundred. Whacko! ” His
sandy brows knitted in a
thoughtful frown.
“Hey, why can’t we go on
with this dungology stunt? Lots
of people have little paddocks
of this Palestine-clover. We’ve
got the plant to wash-out the
seed. I guess old Tim won’t
mind if we go on using his
cattle, seeing he’s getting ’em
fattened free. Go around offer-
ing to do the job for half the
seed. They’d have to put down
their own cement-yards”
“I’ll scout around tomorrow,”
Poss agreed.
MRS. TEMBY found it neces-
sary to be very firm on one
point. She would not allow
them to paint Temby Bros.,
Dungologists, on the side of the
truck. “I don’t care if it is
necessary to advertise! We’re
not going to be mistaken for
nightmen!”
They gave in about it, and
soon found there was no need
for advertising. The whole
district was talking about their
stunt, and they had more busi-
ness than they could handle.
A hold-up occurred when Tim
O’Dea, finding his lean-ribbed
beasts had been transformed
into sleek ones, trucked them off
to market as fat stock, but he
soon picked up another mob of
hungry scrubbers to replace
them.
The Department of Agricul-
ture became interested, and sent
a man to investigate,
“A crude yet very effective
method of harvesting small-size
seed from areas too restricted to
justify the employment of the
usual machines,” he reported,
Mrs. Temby no longer visits
the town in a battered old truck.
Her boys own a fine new one,
but it is kept for working trips.
A sleek car is used for outings.
Her sons grumble a lot about the
annual slug in income tax, but
they seem to have plenty left
after paying it.
The grey-haired widow still
shakes her head as she looks at
the old sluicing-plant. “Your
father spent all his spare-time
in trying to wash a fortune out
of the gullies up in the hills with
this thing. He didn’t get enough
gold to keep himself in tobacco,
You’ve made thousands by put-
ting cow-manure through it!”
Her sons chuckle. “That’s
science for you!” they reply.
Before he could find his voice
the waiter had gone. He looked
at the beer, then he looked at the
girl. She had turned her head
towards the men in the corner
and she was smiling. Virgie’s
jaw tightened. He took the glass
of beer and poured it into a pot-
plant standing by the side of the
table. He watched one of the
men climb slowly to his fee
The man came across the small
, .
What s wrong with you,
m *f-‘ .5 , s . a ~
Virgie hcked his lips.
I m buying all the beer she
wants, sport He came to his
feet, waiting for the man to make
a T ve ’ , ,
No one tosses my beer down
the sink, the man said.
atoK?”"* y °“ S ° nner d °
Mick was suddenly between
them. With the efficiency bom
of long bar-experience he gave
the man from the coiner a gentle
s h ove
“Break it up, Joe” he said.
“I’ll handle this ”
Joe moved back a couple of
yards. Mick turned to Virgie.
“On your way, mister,” he
said. “You’ve had your last
drink. Get going and don’t
bother to come back.”
The girl said: “Come on,
Virgie. You’ll only get into
bother.”
“He’ll find plenty of it, lady,”
Mick said, “if he wants to start
anything.”
He came out into the night air
with a swiftly growing sense of
his inadequacy. Again he was
angry with himself and the way
he had allowed the night to
fritter itself into a succession of
failures.
The girl said: “You made a
bloody fool of yourself, I must
say.”
“Shut up,” he snapped.
“Who do you think you’re
talkin’ to?” the girl said.
"OVEN with the flatness of his
spirit it was good to be
behind the wheel of the car. He
started the motor and his foot
stabbed hard on the accelerator,
There was satisfaction in crash-
ing noise against the silence of
the night. His foot pedalled the
accelerator a dozen times before
he slipped the car into gear and
swung the car expertly back
along the road they had come.
Without looking at her he was
aware that the girl was hunched
against the door away from him.
As an anger response his foot
touched harder on the
accelerator. The road churned
away beneath the drum of the
tyres. He flicked his eyes away
from the road to look at the
speedometer. Fifty. His foot
squeezed down a little harder.
When he looked at the
speedometer again it read sixty.
Beside him the girl had moved
away from the door and was
sitting straight in the seat,
“Don’t be a bloody fool,” she
sa i d .
“ S he’s got the to e,” he said,
and p ressed harder with his foot,
xhe car swept over a rise and
di d swiftly for the downhi u
run acce i era tor levelled
with the floor of the car. The
need j e on the speedometer
shivered towards seventy. He
could feel the excitement moving
j ns j de 0 f him, and, for the first
time during the night> there was
rea j sa tj s f ac tion in being Virgie
Devereaux. The thunder of
p ower f ro m the motor was part
him
Ahead the “Sh* tunnelled
™»y ‘ hr °“B h ro adsjde trees
was aware suddenly ffia
J* e W:2S smi lI ?®* T? 12 tension t
had been wtth him aU evening
was gone completely. Without
mov ‘ n 8 ( hia f ° ot . fr ?“
accelerator he allowed his body
to t f®! ax ‘ ..
Please, Virgie, the girl said,
pleadingly,
He grinned, savoring an
intense satisfaction from her
fear. There was confidence in
him now, a confidence far
removed from the business of
skulking into a milk-bar to
dodge a policeman or of backing
down against the insolent aggres-
sion of a drink-waiter in a cheap
pub. Now he felt like Virgie
Devereaux.
He saw the sharp curve
coming up in plenty of time,
Deliberately he pumped the
accelerator. The girl uttered a
little scream of terror. Virgie’s
foot jabbed for the brake. The
pedal moved easily, without
resistance. Swift panic took
possession of him. He pumped
the pedal. There was no easing
of speed. When he pressed the
pedal met the floorboards of the
car easily. The girl beside him
commenced to sob.
Virgie grabbed for the hand-
brake, then they were on the
curve, and he was trying to fight
it around. Rubber screamed,
He could feel the tyres tearing
away from their rims. Then
there was no road left, and the
car floated for an instant in dark-
ness before it began its crushing
and slaughtering journey to the
bottom of the gully, a hundred
feet below,
Virgie heard a scream start
and die. He closed his eyes,
Before he died he felt his head
crumpling to a pulp while his
nostrils held to the sickly sweet
smell of cheap perfume. There
was no pain, and there was a
surprising satisfaction in being
Virgie Devereaux.
IKON
I see her often in a corner place
Travelling by train to school with her sisters and brother
And cannot read for watching her thin long face
Framed in surrounding plait. She is like no other
Child or woman that 1 have ever seen
Except, so long ago I cannot recall
Ita owner: an ikon of Heaven’s Byzantine Queen
Stared darkly (from her niche in a garden wall)
Brown skinned and eyed, with the same unnatural length
Of bone. And I wonder whether the drawn-out maze
Of muscle and tissue needs some special strength
To support half-inward elongated gaze.
Within one purse may jingle various coin . . .
She is eastern cash from a more intricate mould
Than her sisters and brother: metal from deeper mine
Than yields the redness of their Celtic gold.
New goddesses are not being fashioned now
And skill for chiselling stone hearts is lost.
We thought all sap long-ebbed from the golden bough
Which from untended flowering has tossed
An archaic fruit to ripen and rot alone . . .
Her features at once too innocent and too wise
Should stretch from a body of rock with a heart of stone . . .
No man could lie to her: hearts of flesh need lies.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


"THE LETTERS
OF RACHEL HENNING"
Over 9500 copies of this fascinating, factual and
intimate stpry of Australians a hundred years
ago have now been sold. Its historical and
entertainment value has been applauded by
critics in Australia and abroad. Rachel Henning
without doubt has become an enduring character
in Australian literature. The Norman Lindsay
illustrations in the book are superb.
7s. 6d., post-free
Copies of “The Letters of Rachel Henning” are
again available from “The Bulletin” offices in
Melbourne, Brisbane or Perth, or from The
Book Department, “The Bulletin,” Box 2521,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Biography of Sir Bulldog
Churchill
By M.H. ELLIS
I T is typical of the British poli-
tical scene that one of the
best books about Sir Winston
Churchill should be written
by the wife of a former junior
Minister in a Labor Govern-
ment ; for that is what Virginia
Cowles is in private life.
Her Winston Churchill: The
Era and the Man (Hamish
Hamilton) is about as objec-
tive as anything can be
that is written while the victim
is still alive and the author
still a friend of himself and his
family. It is specially interesting
also in the fact that for the first
time Sir Winston has been bio-
graphically examined at length
by a woman—who happens to be
American by birth and training.
When she first told her subject
that she intended to write his
biography he remarked that there
was “little in that field
unploughed.” There is, never-
theless, apart from intimate
facts culled from inside the
family circle, a good deal that
is original in her commentary
and her interpretation of the
facts. And any political pre-
judice which may be detected
appears only occasionally and
faintly.
Bom in the ladies’ retiring-
room of Blenheim Palace during
a ball which his beautiful
mother insisted on attending, the
subject is first seen as a very
small seven-months child with
little apparent chance of survival,
then as a very backward red-
headed small boy, full of devil
and with an imperfect upper-lip
which sadly affected his speech,
causing him to lisp curiously,
and an endowment of brain-
power which impressed nobody
save his devoted nurse, who
appears to have been the great
affection of his life.
His great but ailing father was
tongue-tied in his presence, and
seemed to look on him with lofty
disregard and cruel aloofness.
His preceptors had no
enthusiasm for him. He was sent
to Harrow —which stands on a
hill —because he had a weak
chest, and for the Latin entrance-
paper produced a document
upon which the only marks were
the figure (1), two smudges and
a blot.
He entered the school as the
lowest boy in the lowest form,
and five years later was still in
the lower school. He utterly
failed to learn even the rudiments
of Latin, Greek or mathematics.
His only athletic feat seems to
have consisted in pushing Leo
Amery, when head of his house
and champion gymnast, into a
swimming-pool. But he found
a flair for English, in which he
acquired rather than was given
a thorough grounding, drilling
himself over and over again in
parsing and syntax, so that “I
got into my bones the essential
structure of the ordinary English
sentence —which is a noble
thing.”
However, in a position in
which his head should have been
chronically hung in shame, he
was self-confident and self-
assertive ; and when his head-
master thundered “Churchill, I
have very grave reason to be
displeased with you!” he retorted
brightly, “And I, sir, have very
grave reason to be displeased
with you.”
He failed twice out of twice
for the entrance-examination to
Sandhurst, and, after being
removed from Harrow and sent
to a crammer, he passed so low
that only the cavalry, which
looked primarily for ■ “young
men of independent means who
could and would pay for their
horses,” would take him.
His father encouraged him at
this stage with a letter in which
he told him that if he did not pull
himself up he would become “a
social wastrel” ; but even a fond
parent might have been excused,
for he had had the humiliating
task of writing to the colonel of
the Rifle Brigade and telling him
that his son was too stupid to
qualify to enter it. Winston,
however, believing that riding
was better fun than walking,
entered Sandhurst with a light
heart.
He had little reason for
optimism. Just before passing
his examination he had jumped
29ft. off a bridge during a chas-
ing game, and to his surprise
landed hard on hard ground
instead of in a tree. He was
unconscious for three days and
was laid up for nearly a year,
most of which he spent studying
the political scene,
Sandhurst he loved, with its
horses and its lessons in forti-
fication and the blowing-up of
bridges. He even spent his holi-
days with the Royal Horse
Guards to improve his
technique.
It was while a cadet that he
made his first speech, at a protest-
meeting on the promenade of the
Old Empire in Leicester-square,
whose wine and ladies were such
features of the life of fashionable
male youth in the Naughty
’Nineties. Screens having been
put round the bars to hide the
sight of them from a not-
fastidious public at the instance
of Mrs. Ormiston Chant’s puri-
tans, Winston and his friends
removed them somewhat rudely,
and Winston, standing on a
chair, burst into oratory:
Where does the Englishman in
Eondon always find a friend? Where
does he first go when, battle-
scarred and travel-worn, he reaches
home? Who is always there to greet
him with a smile and Join him. in
a drink? Who is ever faithful, ever
true? The ladies of the Empire
promenade!
At least that was the second-
hand version of Richard Harding
Davis.
In March, 1895, he received
his commission. His father had
died two months before, and
henceforward became a sort of
hero with him, though it is diffi-
cult to see why. Randolph was
not exactly an endearing
character in any human context,
and he appears to have run true
to form with his son, who wrote:
“If ever I began to show the
slightest idea of comradeship, he
was immediately offended.”
The young Winston was
launched into life and the
Fourth Queen’s Own Hussars
without a penny of his own,
though with an allowance of
£5OO a year from his mother, a
sum scarcely consistent with the
maintenance of his position as
the heir-presumptive to a Duke-
dom and of the panoply and
splendor that then went with a
subaltern’s commission in a
crack cavalry regiment.
His idea of a holiday was a
trip to Cuba to report a brief
part of the Spanish-American
war for the “Daily Graphic,” an
assignment which educated his
taste for Havana cigars, rum-
cocktails and the Spanish-siesta,
which has been part of his daily
regime almost ever since—regi-
mental discipline, in earlier days,
permitting.
Within the next three years
he had tasted the pleasures of
Indian military life, with its polo
at Bangalore, had been allowed
to act as correspondent for the
“Allahabad Pioneer” with the
Malakand Field Force, his part
of the active fighting being
summed-up in a brief and lively
sentence by Miss Cowles:
The savage picked up a stone,
hurled it at him and waited for him,
brandishing his sword. Churchill
pulled out his revolver and fired
several shots, then, realising that be
was alone and surrounded by the
enemy, he ran as fast as he could.
Afterwards everybody was as
delighted as could be with his
book except the Army, which
was understandably piqued that
2nd-Lieutenant Churchill, a
minor cog in its machinery,
should criticise its short-service
method of enlistment, its failure
to cover retiring companies with
continuous fire and the fact that
spjdiers were equipped with
neither chocolate nor sausages.
But the Prince of Wales
(Edward VII) wrote him a note
of congratulation, and Lord
Salisbury, the Prime Minister,
unwarily asked him—he was 24
—to come and discuss the issues
with him. Even more unwarily
he told him to ask if he should
need his help.
Winston promptly asked him
to intercede with Kitchener (who
for some mysterious reason was
averse to the arrival of the
youthful critic of war on his
front) to allow him to go to
Egypt for the Omdurman cam-
paign. Eventually he got there,
attached to the 21st Lancers with
a commission on the side to
write for the “Morning Post,” it
having been coldly intimated to
him “that you will proceed at
your own expense, and that in
event of your being killed or
wounded in the impending
operations, or for any other
reason, no charge of any kind
will fall on British Army funds.”
About 1400 miles inside Africa
he took part in the last real
cavalry charge in the history of
war. His troop came out with
only half its strength. But the
military would have been glad
to be rid of what old colonels
described as a “young whipper-
snapper,” and were disappointed
when he declined a permanent
job on the “Morning Post.” His
main admirer seems to have been
that brilliant interpreter of
picturesque battle (and of every-
thing else he wrote about),
G. W. Steevens, who described
him as “the youngest man in
Europe,” prophesying; “There
will hardly be room for him in
Parliament at 30 or in Europe at
40.”
As it was, at 25 the man who
had been a dunce at 18 had
written three books which had
attracted world attention, and
while his comrade-subalterns
had been content to wear their
£l5O uniforms and play polo he
had spent most of his time in the
study of military works and in
improving his military know-
ledge. His assurance, after
Egypt, had reached the point at
which he had no hesitation in
criticising Kitchener severely,
especially for ordering the
desecration of the Mahdi’s tomb
and the cutting-up of his body.
“Such,” he remarked, “was the
chivalry of conquerors,”
At 25 he was off to South
Africa for the “Morning Post,”
with the then unheard-of salary
for a war-correspondent of
£250 a month and all expenses
paid, and unperturbed by the dis-
inclination of Sir Redvers Buffer,
V.C., who travelled in the same
ship, and who was somewhat
allergic to “journalists,” to meet
hint.
At 26 he was a national hero
by reason of an escape from a
Boer prison-laager which would
not have drawn a three-line para-
graph from the Press in World
War 11. It made him a world
figure, and demonstrated his
capacity for capitalising oppor-
tunity.
From a war-correspondent
with a lot of enemies, little better
than the average and not in the
same class with men of the
Steevens calibre, but sustained
by influence and self-confident
pushfulness, he was transmuted
into the young and promising
Conservative politician with
every foundation under him for
success in the world of govern-
ment in the years of transition
before World War I. Even a
change of party only unsteadied
his reputation.
It was probably the manner
in which he showed his mettle
and made his mark in that
decade, not among his own class
but with the upstart Liberals of
the order of F. E. Smith and
Lloyd George, that revealed
the significance of his person-
ality. His rise in eight years to
become President of the Board
of Trade at 34, then his defeat
by Joynson Hicks at the by-
election which new Ministers
were up to that period compelled
to suffer, might have meant with
most men that his career was a
flash in the pan.
His electorate showed relish as
it sang “Good-bye, Winnie, we
must leave you! ” The suf-
fragettes gloated, and with gusto
his friend Morley attributed his
fall to the wrath of his con-
stituency at “rather too naked
tactics in making deals with this,
that and the other group without
too severe a scrutiny in his own
political conscience of the terms
that they were exacting from
him.”
But it was exactly seven
minutes after the poll that he
received the telegram ‘inviting
him to contest Dundee, and he
rode to triumph in that “home
of Scotch radicalism,” largely on
a burst of scathing denunciation
of the Marxian Socialists—the
beginning of a blast against
Communism which has gathered
flame for 45 years and has not
even yet exhausted his heat,
despite the fact that he has
always been ready to com-
promise with his Marxist
opponents on the basis of live-
and-let-live.
Even then, though Liberals
were prepared to admit his
passion for democracy, they still
did not trust either him or his
future. They recognised that
“the aristocrat” was still latent
in him, waited for conflict be-
tween the two Churchills, and
questioned whether he “had the
staying-power of greatness,”
whether “one who has devoured
life with feverish haste” could
retain his zest to the end, and
how “that fatal 40 when the
youth of roselight and romance
has faded” would find him.
It found him actually still
“following politics as he fol-
lowed the hounds,” at the zenith
of his mid-period reputation,
established firmly in the public
estimation, not only as a
character of the type the English
voter loves or hates to distrac-
tion, but as one who had reached
as high, short of the Prime
Ministership, as a “radical, a
reformer and a well-publicised
isolationist” able to stand on his
own feet could reach.
It found him, in fact, in charge
of Britain’s favorite defence-
force in the moment of greatest
peril since the Armada, moving
the greatest naval squadrons of
history about like draughtsmen
and conducting campaigns with
energy more impressive some-
times than effective. It found
him involved in the fustian anti-
climax of the Antwerp incident
and on the edge of the precipice
of the Gallipoli adventure.
Then he fell politically with a
resounding splash, from the
spray of which it seemed that
no man could emerge again.
Yet, even while he was under,
loud criticisms of Haig’s
strategy, along with advocacy of
tanks and a stab at the soft
underbelly of Europe, reached
the upper air, and soon he was
seen giving a masterly display
as an organiser of Britain’s giant
munition programme and as a
transformer of strategies.
Even those prepared for
almost anything by this recovery
could scarcely have expected his
next sudden fall in 1922—poli-
tically serious at a time when he
was generally disliked by all
parties—especially seeing that it
happened while he was ill after
losing his appendix, that there
was no suitable issue for him to
cling to floating about, and that
he fell stunned by a mean part-
ing kick from the apostate
radicals of Dundee.
Yet, again, there he was on
the bank, in a fresh kind of hat,
his future assured financially by
a legacy of £5OOO a year from
Lady Londonderry, his pen in
hand ready to carye out a new
reputation as. a modern
Macaulay or Gibbon (neither
he nor his publishers seemed
sure which), and to add lustre to
English prose and the reputa-
tion of his ancestors.
Even a New York taxi-cab
could not kill him now, so hard
and. resilient had he become. In
politics he was, during the
uneasy years of the ’twenties and
’thirties, whether in or out of
office, rather an echo of the past,
a ghost of the days before the
war, a memory of the era of
Salisbury than a living entity.
o Continued on page 30)


I
Introducing to you
A COMPLETE FRIENDLY
"PHOTOGRAPHIC
SERVICE"
If you want A BOX CAMERA;
If you want A ZEISS, VOIGTLANDER, AGFA, BOEEEI,
or any other of famous German cameras from £lO to #BOO,
If you want Any of the well-known KODAK cameras;
If you want To do your own PROCESSING;
If you want
Any ENLARGING equipment;
If you want
To do COLOUR photography;
If you want
A HOME MOVIE outfit—
You can have it for cash, on Lay-by
or Special Easy Terms —No interest
charged if paid off in Three Months .
We send C.O.D.
SPECIAL SAME DAY DEVELOP-
ING AND PRINTING SERVICE
Cairns Camera Centre
Hotel Australia Building,
19 Martin Place, Sydney. BW 9566.
CAIRNS
CAMERA
CENTRE
SPORTING NOTIONS
Spring racing will begin in
earnest this coming Saturday at
Warwick Farm, when the
popular w.-f.-a. Warwick Stakes
and the Hobartville Stakes (for
the class three-year-olds) will be
the feature events. Main Handi-
cap double will be the Campbell-
town Handicap and Spring
Handicap. Nearly all the best
horses have been nominated.
The Warwick Stakes last
spring was won by outsider
Foreign Exchange from Davey
Jones and Sea Sovereign. San
Domenico was a warm favorite,
but ran a modest fourth. The
1952 Hobartville went to the
favorite Suncup, later successful
in the best sprint company.
The Warwick Stakes this year
might see Carioca back to the
winning-list at first start since his
grand win in the Sydney Cup.
Running of the Hobartville
Stakes is expected to throw light
on Derby prospects and to re-
veal the best three-year-old of
the Sydney season. Maybe a
few of the colts won’t be fully
wound up and another run,
perhaps in the Canterbury or
Rosehill Guineas, will be neces-
sary to bring them to their top.
However, most of them will be
ready to show best form at
Warwick Farm, and a keen con-
test over the seven furlongs is
in store. On latest showings the
pick of the likely field may be
Royal Stream, with Courtauld,
Caspar, Electro and Buthus all
having prospects. Of the fillies,
Redeswood appears to be out on
her own. She is likely to develop
into Australia’s best filly of the
season.
• • • •
Weight stops the best horses
in handicaps and in special
weights events, and some of
Australia’s greatest gallopers,
including Phar Lap, have been
defeated when this was least
expected. It has happened once
again at Brisbane, the Queen’s
Cup (H miles) being won by
lightly-weighted Euphrates (7.2,
including 21b. over), starting at
9 to 2. He beat hot favorite.
Hydrogen (6-to-4 on), and
Earldom.
In his Queen’s Cup win
Euphrates confirmed the form
shown in the Exhibition Handi-
cap three days earlier. As
Euphrates ran the 12 furlongs in
2.28 i, a Queensland record, the
race was a thorough staying test.
Australia’s record time, 2.27 J, is
held by Palfresco, and was made
in fhe 1935 Caulfield Cup.
Randwick’s best is 2.29, so
Euphrates travelled fast.
Euphrates is now in favor for
the staying events of the spring.
He has 7.1 in the Metropolitan
and lib. more in both the Caul-
field and the Melbourne Cup. A
Midstream (imp.) five-year-old
horse from Chancel by Magpie
(imp.), he is bred on similar
lines to Shannon, Delta and True
Course.
• • * •
Melbourne three - year - old
Cyklon King, at his second start
following a spell, narrowly won
the First Yuroke Handicap (six
furlongs less 20yds.) at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. He is a son
of Lawrence and Sweet Isa by
Enfield (imp.) from The Lady
Isa (a sister to Belle Gallante, the
dam of well-performed Nuffield)
by Cyklon (imp.). Lawrence
was one of Australia’s best
horses of recent years. He won
£13,814 in stakes, while his sire.
Law Maker (imp.), sired the
winners of upwards of £235,000
in stakes. Cyklon King defeated
Sans Delai and Magic Mountain
(favorite at 5 to 4). Magic
Mountain had won at each of his
three prior starts, but hadn’t had
a run since June, which probably
brought about his defeat. He is
one of Melbourne’s best young
horses.
• • • •
Two Vermouths, winner of the
Valley’s Second Yuroke Handi-
cap, is a three-year-old son of
imported Sans Tache, a Stardust
stallion, and is from Genoa by
Baralong (imp.).
Birdwood, a winner of minor
events at Warwick Farm and
Canterbury (two), is now on the
second line of Epsom favoritism.
Birdwood simply strolled in with
the First Ashbury Graduation
Stakes on Saturday. He is to
contest a similar class of race at
Rosehill next Saturday week,
then Tattersall’s Tramway
Handicap. He has 7.3 in the
Epsom, and it mightn’t be easy
to secure a class rider at that
weight. Birdwood, who gave
young trainer S. Lawrence his
first winner, is a handsome four-
year-old horse and an effortless
galloper. He is by Delville Wood
(imp.) from Fairness by Le
Grand Due (imp.) and traces
back, on the dam’s side, to
Poseidon.
Though the longest starting-
price about a winner at Canter-
bury Park was 5 to 1 (Spearby),
only three favorites succeeded in
eight events, and the majority
of backers did no good over the
meeting. Gay Vista, Radiant
Prince, Constant Wonder, Pondi-
cherry and Coulper were costly
to takers of the niggardly odds.
The offering of 5 to 2. each
of three in the First Welter
seemed fair business for the
layers, even allowing for the fact
that Prelate had been backed to
that from fives. The unsuccessful
Prelate plunge enabled late
backers of the winner, Lord
Crag, to secure sto 2. Hun-
dreds of others had accepted as
little as 6 to 4.
Bookmaker-owner J. A. Shaw,
who’d had a trip to England for
the Coronation —few punters
manage to get these overseas
trips—was at Canterbury on his
betting-stand in time to see his
black colt Count Roussel win the
Three-year-old Handicap, beat-
ing Constant Wonder, who ran
a game race, but failed to
concede his opponent 141 b. Star
Crown, in finishing third, drew
attention to immediate future
engagements.
Sydney businessman E- W.
Russell, who won the 1948
Metropolitan with Buonarroti
Boy, trained by J. J. Cormick,
has had mixed luck with Canter-
bury winner Britavah, who has
been placed in 20 of 27 races.
Last spring Britavah finished
third to Dalray and Jan in the
Metropolitan ; he’s in this year’s
Metrop. with 7st. Neville Sell-
wood, who had the mount at
Canterbury, took the gelding to
the front at the start and he led
all the way. That seems the best
way to ride him.
Trainer Fred Shean, who a
few years ago won the Mel-
bourne Cup on Catalogue, the
King’s Cup on Serlodi, the Caul-
field Cup on Buzalong and the
Williamstown Cup on Manolive,
has a competent apprentice
“I said coramine—not thallium.”
attached to his Rosebery stable,
his 16-year-old son Jim. The
lad landed his first winner at his
second ride in a race as did his
father many years ago—in fact,
so many seasons back that he
doesn’t remember the horse’s
name. The youngster cracked it
on hig father’s horse Step Ahead,
in a HawkesbUry Maiden.
* ♦ *
A quarter of a century ago
Sidney Riley donated his Gold
Mashie Cup to Roseville Golf
Club (Sydney), to be played for
by amateur and professional
alike. It was a revolutionary
idea at the time. The cup was
first won by “Bunny” Kearney,
an amateur, in 1928. Since then
it has been won by four profes-
sionals ; otherwise by amateurs
(on handicap). Last Saturday a
Roseville amateur (Ted Clarke),
with a 67 off the stick, won the
silver jubilee edition of the cup
against a big field, including 30-
odd professionals. And Sid Riley
was there to do the honors. The
professional’s purse, run in con-
junction, was shared by Len
Woodward and Eric Cremin,
both with 62’s.
* * *■
Australia drew with the
Chinese team 3-all, in the third
Soccer Test at Sydney Show-
ground in a game which in-
cluded three goals from indirect
free kicks —highly unusual. The
crowd did some hearty hooting,
and once, when the ref. awarded
a goal from one of these kicks
(by Robertson), Chinese captain
Yu Yiu Tack came racing down-
field to know “whaffor?” After
the game, however, the Chinese,
as is their custom, entertained
the referee at their hotel. “In
Hong Kong we never dispute a
referee’s decision,” said secre-
tary-coach L. J. Channing. “In
our opinion he is always right,
and we abide by his rulings.”
It’s supposed to be the idea here,
too.
Most of the confusion arose
out of the indirect free kicks. To
score from such it is necessary
for the ball to touch a player
before it goes into the net.
Naturally it’s hard for the spec-
tator to see this contact.
« * ♦ ♦
Form of the four finalists in
the V.F.L. must have pleased
their followers in Saturday’s
Melbourne games, Geelong,
Footscray, Essendon and Col-
iingwood having easy wins.
Footscray’s speed was displayed
against Fitzroy, one of the
toughest non-four teams, for
’Sctay to win by 14.14 to 7.11.
Geelong simply made hacks of
Richmond, 14.18-4.9, and Essen-
don got 12.10 to Melbourne’s 8.9
and could have made it more.
Only Coilingwood lagged a little,
being behind Hawthorn at half-
time, after which they turned it
on for a 12.16-11.6 win. Of the
others, St. Kilda got a win over
Carlton, 8.15 to 7.16, and South
Melbourne beat North Mel-
bourne 11.21 to 8.8.
• • • •
Few teams have had the
frustrating experience of West-
bourne Park (Adelaide) school
Aussie Rules footballers. Play-
ing Edwardstown they so
dominated the game as to have
15 shots to five at the goals. But
all they scored was 15 points to
2.3, making it a draw.
The Wallabies were beaten
27-11 by Northern Transvaal
before a crowd of 25,000 in
what was regarded as their big
pre-Test rehearsal. However, in
their last few games the Walla-
bies have shown a decided im-
provement in the scrums and in
all-round defence. Their open,
attacking play is good in any
company. For the first 20
minutes it looked like a Wallaby
game, with a try by Jones from
a cut-through by Burke, con-
verted by Sweeney. But
Northern Transvaal fought back,
and, in the final stages, carried
the game by storm. Other Aus-
tralian points came from penalty
goals by Barker and Sweeney.
The game, in general, fol-
lowed file classic pattern of
Springbok play against a strong
team. Determined defence and
battering attacks, until, finally,
the opposition slows to a walk
—and then the deluge. It is
Rugby at its most virile, and
only international teams chosen
on the same vigorous lines can
hope to win Tests there. That
is, no weak links, especially in
defence; no players, however
spectacular they may be in
attack, who don’t give every
ounce of weight (in the for-
wards), or who can’t be relied on
to tackle determinedly, whether
they are backs or forwards.
University was unlucky to
lose fullback Brian Piper, who
was badly hurt in the game
against Gordon on Saturday.
He’ll be out for the season.
Gordon won 11-5. In other
Sydney Rugby Union clashes
Drummoyne, in a brisk game,
beat Manly 17-9: Eastwood
beat St. George 30-8: Randwick
beat Parramatta 20-18: and
Eastern Suburbs beat Northern
Suburbs 6-2.
There is an Australian Rugby
Union team in Fiji. In its first
game of the tour it beat Fiji
Europeans 22-9.
W.R.C.”: I know all about
Victorian football enthusiasm,
but how about this?; Over here
in New Zealand the national
game is Rugby Union and the
big prize the Ranfurly Shield, a
challenge trophy for teams from
each province. Wellington chal-
lenged the holders, Waikato, the
arena, Hamilton, population
about 28,000. More than 22,000
saw the game, many travelling
the 400 miles from Wellington
by two special trains. Wellington
won, 9-6. On the Sunday morn-
ing City Mission radio session
the announcer opened up “Well,
it’s a lovely day. We’ve won the
Ranfurly Shield and the sun is
shining!” When the victorious
XV got home on the Monday
morning they were met by an
enormous crowd led by the Lord
Mayor and City Council and
with a brass band. Wellington
took an unofficial holiday, every-
body talked football, some
enthusiast was so worked up he
gave £5 to a local charity.
* * *
Of the preceding 19 England-
Australia Tests played at The
Oval, England won all but four,
Australia winning in 1882, 1930,
1934 and 1948. It was after
England’s collapse and defeat in
1882 (when Spofforth took 7-46
and 7-44) that the “Sporting
Times” published the obituary
to English Cricket whence comes
the term Ashes.
Australia came to the fifth
Test in 1948 with the bacon
already carted home —three won,
with the Manchester Test of
course drawn. The fifth affair
turned out to be Australia’s most
emphatic win of that series. On
a damp wicket England crashed
for 52 (Hutton, first in and last
out, 30; Lindwall 6-20). Aus-
tralia, not so troubled by the
conditions, made 389 (Morris
196, run out). England, behind
337, couldn’t make up the leeway
—all out 188 (Hutton 64, again
top-score).
This Test was Bradman’s last.
Inappropriately he got a “duck.”
English skipper Yardley led his
team in three cheers (joined by
the crowd) when Bradman went
in. He was bowled second ball
by Hollies, the Warwickshire
spinner who just lately had
Hassett’s team in some bother.
Hollies disclaimed any credit for
Bradman’s dismissal, saying he
was visibly affected by the recep-
tion ; but Bradman, in his turn,
generously gave the bowler full
credit.
The last England-Australia
Test to produce a decisive result
was won by England—the fifth
1950-51 Test in Australia. This
marked England’s first win of a
Test against Australia since 1938,
and was hailed by Englishmen as
a turning-point. But Australia,
which had won the first four
Tests in 1950-51, held on to the
Ashes.
• • • •
“Mid-on”: Hassett’s only loss
of the toss against England was
in the third 1950-51 Test, not
the fourth (B. 29/7/’53). The
game then described (when Iver-
son, 6-27, finished-off the affair,
Australia winning by an innings)
was the third Test. This time
Hassett has won every toss.
# • • •
Apropos, the fourth (Adelaide)
Test, also won by Australia, was
noteworthy for three century
knocks —one by Jim Burke, play-
ing his first Test, one by Hutton,
who carried his bat through the
innings for 156 not out, and the
third by Arthur Morris, who
made 206 out of 371. Morris
could easily have remained un-
conquered and so joined the
select few who have carried
their bats in Tests, but, most
selfless of cricketers, he threw
caution to the winds when the
last man, Iverson, came in, and
got out trying to put a few extra
runs on the board for his side.


A
Number
Value
£
GROSS SALES
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
500
50
70
1,400
400
500
KILLED FOR
RATIONS
Sheep
Cattle
Pigs
30
48
♦COST
STOCK rtf**
A.
ON HAND 30/6/’53
* Strike out whichever is not
applicable.
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
9,400
448
7
46
12,220
2,688
80
23
LOSSES BY DEATH,
ETC.
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
70
2
14
Total number should agree
with total number in
Section B
10,637
Total value Section A
£17,359
B
_ _ *COST
STOCK . nt/r*T.
ON HAND l/7/’52
*Strike out whichever is not
applicable.
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
5,000
100
5
50
8,000
400
50
45
PURCHASES—
AT COST
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
2,000
300
2
4,400
2,500
30
NATURAL INCREASE
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
3,000
100
80
Total number should agree
with total number in
Section A
10,637
Total value Section B -
— Deduct
£15,425
Note —The profit on Livestock Account is £1.934,
i.e., Section A £17,359, less Section B £15,425
PRIMARY PRODUCERS' INCOME-TAX GUIDE
[Specially prepared by a Bulletin expert .]
Primary-producers’ income-tax returns for the year ended June 30, 1953,
should be lodged on Form B by August 31, irrespective of the amount of profit
or loss. The Commissioner of Taxation will grant extension of time beyond
August 31 if a reasonable explanation is given to him in writing.
A primary producer is a person who earns part or all of his living as a grazier,
wheat-farmer, poultry-farmer, apiarist, orchardist, sugar-planter, market-gardener,
“Pitt-street grazier,” oyster-grower, etc., but not as a fisherman.
The classification of “primary producer” is extended to partners and bene-
ficiaries where the partnership or trust is engaged in grazing or farming.
Income tax and social-services contribution are levied on taxable income,
which is gross income, less allowable deductions.
The following provisions relate to income earned in every part of the
Commonwealth by a resident of any State.
GROSS INCOME
• Gross income consists of payments and allow-
tnces received in money or kind for work done,
profits from any business activity, and income from
investments. Examples are :
1. Profit on livestock transactions as calculated in
Livestock Account.
2. Gross proceeds from sales of any produce—for
example, wool, meat, skins, grain, fruit, fodder
and eggs.
3. Agistment fees and timber royalties.
4. Bounties, subsidies and drought-relief.
5. Gross earnings from contracts, cartage or other
work.
6. Insurance claims received for loss of livestock,
crops, etc.
[Note: The taxpayer may elect, when lodging his
return, to have insurance-recoveries on livestock
losses spread over a period of five (5) years.]
7. Market value of live or other trading stocks given
away.
8. Depreciation allowances in previous years to the
extent recovered by sales of permanent assets.
9. Salaries, directors’ fees and other earnings by the
primary producer.
W. Interest, rent and dividends received by him.
9 Gross income does NOT include : —
1. Surplus of proceeds from sales of permanent assets
over original costs.
2. Value of fodder purchased or produced for own
use and on hand at year-end.
3. Gifts received, other than for services rendered,
including legacies from deceased estates.
4. War-service, old-age, widow’s or invalid pensions.
5. Income-tax refunds.
6. Bonuses on insurance policies.
7. Dividends from goldmining shares.
ALLOWABLE DEDUCTIONS
• Expenses and losses incurred in gaining or pro-
ducing gross income, or necessarily incurred in running
a business for that purpose, are allowable deductions.
Examples are : —
1. Operating Expenses
a. Salaries and wages paid to employees, pay-roll tax,
and cost of food for business employees.
b. Rent (excluding that for private residence), rates,
agistment fees, hire of plant and equipment.
c. Repairs to plant and equipment used in primary
production, but not repairs to own residence.
d. Car expenses, including petrol, oil, repairs and
registration.
e. Power, fuel and light, except that used for private
purposes.
/. Seeds, fodder and fertilisers.
g. Livestock expenses, including veterinary fees, shear-
ing, crutching and droving, licks, vaccines, medi-
cines and breeding service-fees.
h. Selling expenses, including cost of bags, woolpacks,
cases, commission, cartage, freight, advertising and
storage.
i. Travelling expenses, excluding those of a private
nature.
j. Insurance on vehicles, plant and equipment, stock
and crops, and workers’. compensation (excluding
domestic servants in private residence).
k. Cost of communication, except that of a private
nature.
l. Interest on borrowed money used in the business.
m. Accountancy fees, bank charges, replacement of
small tools, subscriptions to trade organisations,
etc.
n. Depreciation.
2. Special Capital Expenditure
a. Eradication or extermination of animal or vege-
table pests from the land.
b. Destruction and removal of timber, scrub or under-
growth, indigenous to the land.
c. Destruction of weed or plant growth detrimental
to the land.
d. Preparation of land for agriculture and ploughing
and grassing for grazing.
e. Draining swamp or low-lying land to improve the
agricultural or grazing value,of the land.
/. Preventing or combating soil-erosion, other than
by erecting fences.
g. Construction of dams, earth tanks, underground
tanks, irrigation-channels or the sinking of bores
and wells to conserve or convey water for use in
primary production.
h. Construction of levee-banks or similar improve-
ments.
i. The cost of purchase and erection of wire and
wire-netting for pest-prevention purposes.
[Note: The cost of special plant and equipment
for the above operations is not an allowable
deduction, but is subject to normal depreciation
allowance.]
3. Personal and Family Allowances
a. The following deductions are allowed for depen-
dants whose separate net incomes do not exceed
£52. A proportionate allowance is granted where
the separate net income is between £52 and £lO4.
(i) Spouse—wife or husband .. .. £lO4
(ii) Daughter-housekeeper of widow or
widower .. .. .. .. .. £lO4
(iii) One child under 16 years .. .. £7B
(iv) Each other child under 16 years .. £52
(v) Student child—between 16 and 21 years,
receiving full-time education at a
school, college or university .. .. £7B
[Note: Deduction reduced by value of
any assistance given by Commonwealth
or State in connection with education
of child.]
(vi) Invalid relative child, stepchild,
brother or sister not less than 16 years,
and in receipt of invalid pension or
certified by Department of Health or
approved medical practitioner as being
permanently incapacitated for work .. £7B
[Note : Deduction reduced by amount
of invalid pension.]
b. Father or mother .. .. .. .. £lO4
[Note: Deduction reduced by the amount
of the separate net income of the parent.]
c. Housekeeper—if wholly engaged in keeping
house for taxpayer and has care of children
under 16 years or invalid relative .. ~ £lO4
[Note: Deduction cannot be claimed for
any period for which a deduction is claimed
for spouse or daughter-housekeeper.]
d. Education expenses amounts paid to
school, college, university or tutor for each
dependent child under 21 years.—Per child,
up to .. .. .. £5O
e. Medical expenses—paid in respect of tax-
payer, his wife and children under 21 years,
and invalid relative, to doctors, nurses,
hospitals, chemists, opticians, dentists
(limited to £2O per person) and for the pro-
vision of hearing-aids, artificial limbs, etc.
Maximum per person £lOO
f. Funeral expenses. Maximum .. .. £3O
g. Life-assurance premiums paid for taxpayer,
spouse and children. Maximum .. ~ £2OO
h. Gifts to certain charities.
i. Rates —water and council —paid on private
residence.
4. Trading Losses incurred during the pre-
vious seven years.
DEPRECIATION
• Primary producers may elect to calculate depre-
ciation on their working assets by the “prime-cost” or
“diminishing-value” method. Under the “prime-cost”
method the same amount of depreciation is allowed
each year until the cost of the asset has been
eliminated. The “diminishing-value” method provides
for the annual allowance to be calculated on the
written-down value at the beginning of each year.
Written-down value is cost, less depreciation allowed
to date. Depreciation on assets purchased on time-
payment can be calculated on total cost, including
interest-payments, or on cost excluding interest-pay-
ments. In the latter case, the interest-payments can
be claimed as allowable deductions from gross income.
• A special 20% annual depreciation allowance on
cost is granted to primary producers on almost all
types of plant and equipment purchased after June 30,
1951. This rate does not apply to motor-cars, on which
the rate is 15%, if used for business purposes.
• Depreciation on plant and equipment purchased
prior to June 30, 1951, is allowable at the following
rates: —
Motor-vehicles and lorries 15%
Buggies, sulkies, drays and wagons .. .. 10 %
Motor tractors 10%
Boring plant .. .. 10%
Agricultural implements .. 10%
Windmills .. .. 5 %
Barns and stables—
(i) Stone, brick or cement .. .. .. 2%
(A) Wood and/or iron 3%
(Continued top of next column.)
Woolsheds—
(i) Stone, brick or cement H%
(ii) Wood and/or iron .. .. .. 2%
Iron grain-silos .. .. .. . . .. 3%
Fences [excluding those allowable as Special
Capital Expenditure (Item /.)] .. .. 3 %
LIVESTOCK ACCOUNT
Livestock Account
• Primary producers have the option of
valuing livestock on hand at the end of each
financial year either at “cost” or at “market
selling value.” The method of valuation selected
should be stated in writing at the time of lodg-
ment of the first return, and cannot be changed
unless approved by the Commissioner in special
circumstances.
The “cost” method of valuation, which is
generally regarded as more satisfactory, has been
followed in the above example. Under the
“cost-price” method, livestock on hand at the
end of the financial year and livestock killed
for rations are valued at the average cost of
stock on hand at the beginning of the year, pur-
chases during the year, and natural increase,
which for this purpose may be valued at any
amount per head not less than the following
minimum values:
Sheep .. .. 4/- per head
Cattle .. .. £1 „ „
Horses .. .. £1 „ „
Pigs 5/- „ „
Sheep on hand at June 30, 1953, in the above
example have been valued at £l/6/- per head,
calculated as follows:
Number Value
£
Stock on hand at l/7/'52 .. .. 5,000 8,000
Purchases ~ .. .. .. 2,000 4,400
Natural increase at 4/- .. .. 3,000 600
10,000 13,000
Average cost per head .. .. 060 =
9 If the whole or any part of livestock on
hand at the end of the year can be identified as
! livestock on hand at the beginning of the year,
'purchases or natural increase during the year, it
is permissible to value the livestock so identified
at “actual cosf ’ instead of “average cost.”
Selected values for natural increase would in
i [ these circumstances be taken as actual cost.


Sfjg
■■■■■
■-- •••• '■•
■ .
Streamlined
Beauty for YOUR KITCHEN
In old homes or new, enjoy the advantages of a
Wunderlich "Wunderbrite" Stainless Steel Sink now.
Available 4', 4'6", 5* and 6' long, the latter also
with a double bowl.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, Phone MX 2411,
or write to Wunderlich Limited, Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for illustrated leaflet and prices.
COMBINATION SINK & DRAINER
fsd
KHAKIS
Circular Charti lor all typrrt
of Beeordlng Instruments
for »«f (IIM of. MicWsej
or Kqulpmon*
MfTCR CHART* • Sp««i**T
JACfiWSfO'SIILUVAN^U
QllflFM STREET. BRISBANE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
VULNERABLE JAPAN
Japan is considered one of
the countries most likely to be
seriously affected by peace in
Korea.
Reviewing its present shaky-
enough economic position, a
London “Twentieth Century”
writer sees that country as
about to feel for the first time
the full economic consequences
of its defeat in the Pacific war.
Hitherto, the writer argues,
Japan has been shielded from
these consequences:
“For the first years after the
war, immense American sub-
sidies—the by-product of the
American occupation—compen-
sated Japan for the destruction
of its industry and the loss of
its empire, from which it had
obtained so much of its raw
materials. When the subsidies
ended with the end of the occu-
pation, the economic demand by
America for carrying on the
Korean war supplied their place.
For the U.N. forces iri Korea,
America spent in Japan about
$BOO million a year. But now
the prospects before Japan have
become extremely bleak. It is
true that the U.S. State Depart-
ment has pledged that dollar
spending in Japan will remain
‘at a relatively high level’ for
two years after a Korean
armistice. But few Japanese
expect the future spending to be
anything like the $BOO million
a year in the past. They fear
that, as America gets the taste
for retrenching, its appetite will
grow.”
Japan’s position, the writer
points out, is similar to Britain’s,
but in an exaggerated form.
Like the British, the Japanese
depend on their industrial ex-
ports for the purchase of some
of their food and their raw
materials to keep their industry
turning. But Japan’s industry is
now very much out of date and
is badly organised. There is a
grave shortage of electrical
power ; labor is no longer cheap ;
and, if it wished to do so, Japan
can no longer solve its problems,
as it did in the ’thirties, by a
savage trade-offensive against
the rest of the world, by under-
selling and dumping.
Also, Japan’s population has
grown by more than 14,000,000
since the end of the war. It
is increasing at the rate of
1,250,000 a year. The present
population is 86,000,000, in-
habiting a set of islands much
poorer than Great Britain. In
1930 there were 2700 persons to
every square mile of cultivable
land; today there are 4300.
Thus there is a constant move
towards the towns. About
1,000,000 boys and girls enter
the urban market annually, and
the increase of the city popu-
lation each year is equivalent to
one large-sized town. The re-
sult is hunger and unemploy-
ment. Recently the Prime
Minister’s office at Tokio esti-
mated that 7,000,000 Japanese
are now unemployed or inade-
quately employed.
The “Twentieth Century”
writer has little faith in the
much-publicised U.N.O. recon-
struction of Korea as a solution
for Japan, and does not see
Buffalo ( U.S.A. ) “Evening News ”
"COME WEST. POOR FISH. COME WEST”
much hope, either, in trade with
the Communist countries.
“Only the most optimistic,”
he reports, “guess that there
would be a demand from Russia
and China together of much
above $80,000,000 —which is
only one-tenth of America’s war-
time spending....
“The principal hope, and per-
haps the most rational hope, of
the Japanese is to be the indus-
trial centre for the development
of South Asia. The argument
for regarding this with sym-
pathy is impressive. It is gene-
rally agreed in the Western
world that one of the worst
breeding-grounds for Commu-
nism will be the impoverished
countries of South and South-
east Asia. Why, say the Japanese,
has their aid not been invited?
Japanese industry cries out to be
employed, otherwise the Japan-
ese proletariat will go hungry
and perhaps in the end turn
Communist. The countries of
South Asia cry out for the in-
dustrial equipment, fertilisers,
electrical equipment and so on
which Japan could supply.”
Most British economists (he
concludes) would agree that
something should be done to
prevent Japan from being driven
to the wall economically. But
if that something is at the ex-
pense of British exports, could
Britain afford it? “Perhaps the
stage is being set again for
another catastrophe brought on
by Japan’s economic desper-
ation’ —for a new Pearl Harbor
when the international scene
gives Japan its opportunity.”
Cold Turkey
Russian “peace gestures” have
not caused in Turkey any of the
excitement noted elsewhere.
At most (reports an Ankara
correspondent of New York
“Herald Tribune”) they have
produced a feeling “of mild
satisfaction that firmness and
determination are now proving
their worth.
“For the Turks this sort of
thing has been going on since
Peter the Great, and relations
with the Soviet Union will
always be correct, precise,
cautious and rather cold. More
than any other North Atlantic
Treaty partner the Turks have
intimately and directly experi-
enced the ups and downs of
Russian imperialism, and the
perspective of three centuries of
such dealings is a grave and
sobering one.”
In Ankara (the correspondent
adds) the feeling is that the con-
clusion of the joint Turkish-
Greek-Yugoslav friendship-pact
was the turning-point for the
Russians. The pact is reported
to have caused strong reaction
in Bulgaria and Rumania, and
has produced among the three
signers military, diplomatic and
political results beyond anything
which was expected.
“ ‘Three years ago this was
about the weakest point on the
Soviet perimeter, and today it is
the strongest,’ one diplomat said.
‘This is largely due to the Krem-
lin policy of threats to the Bal-
kans, and that certainly should
have caused some rethinking in
Moscow.’ ”
As well as defensively, Johnno
would seem to be doing quite all
right otherwise. He is, reports
another “Herald Tribune” cor-
respondent, “in the midst of an
economic boom the like of which
the Middle East has never seen
before.”
Three years ago Turkey
exported not a single pound of
wheat, but in the current year it
will have shipped 1,000,000 tons
of wheat out of the country,
and next year the total will be
on the order of 1,500,000. From
zero it has moved in three years
to No. 4 among the world’s
wheat-exporting countries.
“How has it been accom-
plished? Hard work and
tractors. In 1948 there were
barely 3000 tractors in the coun-
try and today there are over
35,000, plus 4000 harvester com-
bines —and the totals continue
to grow every day.
“Cotton has risen from
55,000 tons in 1947 to 170,000
tons this year. Since 1948, iron-
ore production has gone from
184,(X)0 tons to 481,000 tons;
copper from 11,000 to 23,000;
chromium from 285,000 to
675,000; manganese a colossal
jump from 8327 tons to 106,395
tons.
“Turkey has doubled the mile-
age of its ‘all-weather’ roads in
four years, and doubled both its
coal production and consump-
tion. Gross national product in
Turkey was estimated at 8.6
billion Turkish pounds in 1949,
and stands today at 12.3 billion.
“Now that things are rolling,
there seem to be no limitations
in front of the Turks. Certainly
they refuse to see any them-
selves.”
Wheat to Burn
America has a present wheat
surplus which a correspondent
there of London “Economist”
describes as probably the largest
in the nation’s history.
Restriction of crops for next
season is certain, but there will
still be huge production. Farm-
ers have had to be told that
the alternative to restriction is
to have the Government subsidy
cut from $2.21 to about $1.25,
Meanwhile, the “mountain of
surpluses” is there, some idea of
its vastness indicated by its being
valued at the astronomical figure
of $3,000,000,000. That, it
should be emphasised, is given
as the value of the surplus.
A “New York Times” letter-
writer comments: “Our ware-
houses are bursting with wheat.
When the new crop comes on
we shall hardly know how or
where to store it. Our farmers
want parity for their crops re-
gardless of these conditions.
Our statesmen view the situation
with alarm and nobody appar-
ently has any long-range solution
for what seems to be an insol-
uble problem.”
As a solution, however, all
he can think of is “eat more
bread,” a way out unlikely to
appeal much to Americans, who,
as the writer says, eat only half
as much bread as Europeans
eat; among the important
bread-consuming countries, he
states, Americans “stand at the
bottom of the list.”
Australian wheatgrowers will
find nothing of comfort in the
American storage, which looks
sure to burst out somewhere,
but at least bread-eaters here
may find some consolation of
sorts in what the letter-writer
has to say of American bread:
“There is no denying that
our standard American bread is
poor. When one has known the
breads of France, the pasty
American loaf, so fluffy and soft
that it has to be cut mechani-
cally by the baker, is a mockery.
“The Bureau of Agricultural
Economics issued a tepid de-
fence of American bread, plac-
ing the blame for its fluffiness
and lack of flavor upon con-
sumers, who ‘like to have a part
of their food in rather tasteless
form.’ This, of course, may be
debated. The American con-
sumer gets not the bread he de-
serves but what the baker
supplies. Aside from a few large
cities where oven-baked bread
is available, he must content
himself with the anaemic pan-
baked loaf.
“The miller, too, may be
partly to blame for the quality
of the bread. The baker, if dis-
posed to produce the succulent
European types, might find it
difficult to do so with a flour
that relieves our golden wheat
of some of its goodness and for-
gets to return it. Our flour is
‘enriched’ —sometimes the re-
sulting bread is offered as ‘super-
enriched.’ There is a great par-
ade of highly-hygienic cellophane
wrappings containing an arti-
ficially bleached food described
by the Bureau of Agricultural
Economics as ‘practically taste-
less.’ ”
It needs an effort to remem-
ber that that is written of
American, not Australian, bread,
though here, perhaps, most
bread might be said to be more
like a by-product of the cement
industry.
TV Risks
In Britain the Government,
having aired rather vague pro-
posals for introducing com-
mercialised TV on much the
same lines as Australia’s radio-
broadcasting set - up, then
suspended action to listen to the
general public reactions.
The public debate shows
increasing opposition. A par-
ticularly weighty contribution
has been that of a London
County Council special com-
mittee, which strongly recom-
mended that the council, as
London’s education authority,
was wholly on the opposing side.
Among other reasons, the com-
mittee stated:
“It has been found that some
children in this country spend as
much as 11 hours a week looking
at and listening to television pro-
grammes, and even if allowance
is made for the fact that tele-
vision is still a novelty, this is
impressive.
“The influence of pictures on
feeling and thought may be
much greater than that of words,
spoken and printed, and the most
careful and enlightened parents
will find it more difficult to guide
and control their children’s view-
ing than their reading. This new
and powerful experience in
children’s lives is something of
which educationists must take
serious account,
“No one probably would wish
to suggest that commercial tele-
vision, if it should be permitted
for general use, should play any
part in the development of school
television. School television can
never be more than a supple-
mentary aid to good teaching and
its production will be expensive.
Its success will therefore depend
on the 8.8. C. being able to
allocate sufficient funds as it has
done for school sound-broadcast-
ing. There are some who fear
that if the 8.8. C. has to compete
with commercial television the
necessary funds may not be
available.
“Programmes sponsored by
people whose primary objective
is advertisement rather than the
provision of information, educa-
tion and entertainment may,
despite good intentions, earnest
exhortations, and even stem
warnings, easily fall short of the


Elements of an Industry
No. 20 of a Series
yn
\ /V
Ih
SILVER The element silver sometimes occurs as a free
metal, but is obtained mainly from the ores of lead, copper, zinc
and gold. A lustrous and beautiful metal, silver has been used for
ornament and exchange since the earliest days of history. At Ur of
the Chaldees trinkets of silver have been found in royal tombs built
more than 5,000 years ago; and the Old Testament relates how
Abraham weighed out silver to buy a burial place for his wife
Sarah. Silver has been mined in Peru since the time of the Incas
but the main sources today are Mexico, the U.S.A. and Canada.
Silver is well known in coinage and in such forms as Sterling Silver,
and electroplated nickel-silver (E.P.IJ.S.) but it also has important
industrial uses. The best electrical conductor known, it is used
extensively to make electrical contacts, and plant for the manufac-
ture of certain chemicals is sometimes lined with silver because of
its resistance to corrosion. The important light-sensitive compounds—
silver bromide and silver chloride—are the basis of all photography.
In Great Britain 1.C.1. makes the sodium cyanide used in one method
of silver extraction. In Australia, ICIANZ uses silver gauze and
granulated silver as catalysts in the production of formaldehyde-
one of the basic raw materials of the plastics industry.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
f
L.44C.31M
high standards which are educa-
tionally desirable, for they must
inevitably be designed to attract
the largest possible audience.
“There would be a serious
danger that these programmes
would lag behind the standards
for which people are ready, and
instead of making a positive con-
tribution to the education of the
people in the broadest sense of
the term, they might act as a
brake on educational progress.
This effect might be very serious
indeed, for it would operate at
the growing point of progress—
the education of children and
young people.”
Slave Labor
“Without slave-labor,” com-
ments London “Daily Tele-
graph,” “Russia would not
have been able to work
its A re t i c goldmines, to
carry out its great canal pro-
jects or even to hew the timber
in its forests.
“On a more modest scale
—perhaps 1,000,000 men and
women, perhaps 2,000,000
—the same methods of man-
ning the mines and ambitious
public " r orks are being applied
in the satellite countries.
“Communist apologists often
go to the trouble of explaining
that the system is not one of
slavery but of ‘corrective labor,’
a nice remedial course for hostile
elements. Those who have sur-
vived the ordeals and escaped
seem strangejy ungrateful to the
Kremlin for their compulsory
re-education.”
On the same theme, O. B.
Grosschmid, Associate-Professor
of Economics at Duquesne Uni-
versity, comments in a “New
York Times” letter on the recent
crushing report by a special com-
mittee of U.N.O. and the Inter-
national Labor Organisation.
Particularly he emphasises “one
fact which so many Western
observers neglect while discussing
the U.S.S.R. as a slave State”:
“That is that the sudden
abolition of slave-labor would
gravely endanger Russia’s
planned economy. Today slave-
labor is one of the important
economic institutions of the
Soviet Union.
“To understand fully the
impact of slave-labor on the
Soviet economy one must place
this institution in its proper
historical setting.
“The first correction-labor-
camp was established as early as
1923. Forced-labor took on
mass dimensions after 1929,
when it was apparently decided
to keep most of the ‘liquidated’
alive and working for the State
rather than to execute them.
This matter was the cause of
heated international disputes in
the early 1930’5, and in several
countries —Great Britain among
them —efforts were made to
block the import of Soviet gooqls
on the ground that these were
produced by forced labor.
“The population of these
forced-labor camps was drawn
from political offenders, intel-
lectuals, kulaks, members of the
defranchised classes and all
kinds of ‘enemies of the people.’
The men and women worked on
railways, highways, in mines and
cut timber. By clearing and fill-
ing swamplands and working on
large construction-projects they
helped open-up new areas for
settlement.
“The slave-labor camps be-
came important economic enter-
prises in the Soviet Union in the
1930’5. The secret police— at
that time the G.P.U. —which
bossed them, became the world’s
largest employer. When in July,
1934, the G.P.U. was changed
into the N.K.V.D., a new organ,
the Chief Administration of
Corrective Labor Camps
(G.U.L.A.G.), was organised. At
that time the N.K.V.D., besides
using millions of prisoners
directly, farmed out its surplus
prison-labor to other Soviet
enterprises. Although the
supply of forced-labor was
always available by the million,
it was insufficient to meet the
demand.
“Thus the disposition of these
slave-laborers became a well-
acquired and highly-treasured
right of the secret police, and an
integral part of the five-year
plans. At the beginning, when
the G.P.U, arrested millions of
people, some were sent into
exile, some rented out as slave-
labor to specific enterprises. By
£ Iv, " r
:
San Francisco “Chronicle”
THE PIED PIPER OF PEKING
and by, however, the secret police
itself became the entrepreneur.
Developing its chiefly secret
industrial and construction pro-
jects, it used slave-labor
exclusively. The supply, there-
fore, must have been constantly
renewed and multiplied.
“The M.V.D. has arrested
large groups of people in the
Soviet Union proper and, in
addition, has deported millions
of Balts, Poles, Hungarians,
Czechs, Rumanians, Bulgarians,
Albanians, etc., simply to aug-
ment its supply of forced
laborers. The dangerous com-
bination of judicial and police
power with ‘big business’ in one
single administration the
M.V.D.—is one of the reasons
for the magnitude of the Soviet
forced-labor system,
“Today most of the prisoners
in slave-labor camps are not
guilty of political or other
crimes, not even in the broad
Soviet concept of that term.
They have been arrested because
the Government needs cheap
labor. In addition, most of the
giant public undertakings of the
Soviet Government lie in the
regions where no one would
work of his free will —the gold-
fields in the north-west, the
irrigation projects of the Asiatic
desert regions, etc.
“In this way the Kremlin has
been caught in a vicious circle
from which it cannot escape,
even if it so desired. Fifteen
years ago men and women were
arrested and deported because
of their opposition to the regime.
Today the large industrial under-
takings which live from slave-
labor fix the number of persons
to be arrested, with or without
sufficient reason.
“The number of slave-laborers
is so large today that a sudden
abolition of slavery would seri-
ously impair the U.S.S.R.’s
economy. The entire labor-force
of giant enterprises would dis-
appear overnight and an
economy already overstrained
would have to assimilate, lodge
and clothe people today work-
ing for the omnipotent State
while living in misery.
“The advocates of appease-
ment in the United Nations claim
that there is little use in brand-
ing the Soviet Union guilty of
genocide, because Russia is inde-
pendent of public opinion, and
that the United Nations should
wait until in a strong enough
position to do something
tangible.
“This stand is entirely
incorrect. The Soviets are
spending huge sums of money
for Communist propaganda all
over the world and will certainly
wish to avoid an exposure of
Soviet genocide that may hurt
their plans in other countries.
Indeed, revealing Communism
as a criminal organisation
engaged in breaking up families,
stealing children, starving and
torturing people could be applied
in such a way that the Com-
munist propaganda - machine
would suffer a serious setback.
“At the same time the
oppressors are constantly
threatened by the hatred of
those beaten down into sub-
mission. Slave-labor sustains
and promotes Communism, but
it also may prove to be its
greatest peril.”
New British
Usually thought of as over-
crowded, Britain (mainly Eng-
land) has yet managed to pack
in a total of over 180,000 Central
and East Europeans from be-
hind the Iron Curtain.
They are (reports a London
“Times” special correspondent)
almost completely Slav, easily
the largest group being Poles
(136,000), along with 25,000
Ukrainians, 9000 Russians and
6000 Czechs. Also there are
7000 Hungarians and smaller
groups of others.
The Polish community, says
the correspondent, makes up
almost a complete country in
miniature headed by a President
and Cabinet Ministers and
throbbing with an active political
life: “For London —in the eyes
of the exile Poles —is still the
temporary Polish capital and
they look upon their Govern-
ment as the de jure rulers of
Poland.
“Almost a third of the Poles,
35,000, live in Greater London,
and a large proportion of these
have chosen the Kensington
area south of the Cromwell-road
(known as the ‘Polish Corridor’
to London bus-drivers) as their
home. Here the Poles have their
clubs and ex-service organi-
sations ; their shops, staffed by
Poles, selling food that Central
and East Europeans like;
restaurants entirely frequented
by a Polish clientele; and in
this neighborhood, too, many
Polish-owned hotels and board-
ing-houses have sprung up,
“Other ‘Polish cities’ in Eng-
land are Manchester, Birming-
ham, Bradford and Wolver-
hampton, and, in Scotland,
Edinburgh and Glasgow. There
are also scattered groups up and
down the country. Each Pole
looks upon it as his sworn duty
to keep alive the spirit of his
lost homeland however many
years may have to pass before
Poland is restored again.”
What Bird Is That?
“New York Times” turns
from contemplating such heavy-
weight fauna as Malenkov and
his happy family to cast an
editorially ornithological glance
at a rather more elegant species:
“Maybe it’s that Australians
don’t read American encyclo-
paedias, but according to one
such source ‘the emu has been
much diminished in numbers by
constant persecution’; according
to another ‘the bird is in danger
of extinction.’ And a third
states that ‘coursing the emu has
been carried to such an extent
that [it is] now in many parts
exterminated.’
“On second thought, perhaps
it’s the emu that doesn’t read
the encyclopaedias, since seeing
such descriptions of itself might
very well have been enough to
break its spirit and turn it into
the tender, languishing beast de-
scribed, ready to be pushed into
Darwinian oblivion by the
merest touch of a swan’s feather.
“Actually, though, according
to the story that comes to us
from Melbourne, the big six-
foot, hundred-pound bird is
successfully defying the most
frantic attempts by the Aus-
tralian farmer to get rid of it.
The marvellous creature seems
to be able to shed machine-gun
bullets, survive poisons and in-
genious traps. It seems, in fact,
to be full of the traditional
Australian spunk.
“The picture that accom-
panied the story shows the
enormous lumbering farmers’
foe with two of its young.
Charming little striped babies
they looked. Now, the emu in
captivity is quite tractable, it
seems, and has what sounds like
an enchanting voice—‘a faint
booming noise and sometimes
a shrill piping note.’ Why not,
then, send an expedition over to
Australia, gather up a boat-load
of emus and bring them back
here as pets for our children, or
even to start up a racing course,
since they can run like track
stars? Related to the cassowary,
a specimen of which we have
often seen at the Bronx Zoo and
long been fascinated by, the
emu sounds like just the kind of
beast that might turn into a
national craze.”


POST-HOLE DIGGING
IT ITS LOWEST COST!
THE MOBILCO POST-HOLE DIGGER WITH ELECTRIC POST BORER gives
you really low cost fencing. With it, one man
digs 30 clean, clear holes per hour —2 feet
8 inches deep and 6 to 12 inches in diameter.
Here's a machine which is easy to handle and
which operates at very low cost. 7 b.h.p.,
4-stroke engine. Guaranteed for 6
months.
YOURS FOR CASH OR ON TERMS.
m
ELECTRIC
POST-HOLE
BORER
L \
mm.
WRITE NOW FOR PARTICULARS OF THE
MOBILCO
POST-HOLE DIGGER
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE
HEAD OFFICE: 410-
BRANCHES
AGENTS
CAMPSIE. PHONE: IF 4209 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
. . , . BRISBANE. ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
. . P . . ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
Missing Friend
LEO FRANCIS GERARD.—WouId any-
one knowing the whereabouts of LEO
FRANCIS GERARD (known as Gerry),
an Engineer formerly employed Beales,
Annandale, ask him to communicate with
No. 100 The Bulletin.
Dad turned on him, trembling
with rage.
“Oh, you son of the Devil!”
he commenced. “You worthless
pup, you! Look there! Do you
see that?” He pointed to the
horse. “Didn’t I tell you to
mind him? Didn’t”
“Yes,” snivelled Joe, “but
Anderson’s dog had a
k-k-kangaroo bailed up.”
“Damn you, be off out of
this!” And Dad aimed a block
of wood at Joe which struck him
on the back as he made away.
But nothing short of two broken
legs would stop Joe, who the
next instant had dashed among
the corn like an emu into a
scrub.
Dad returned to the house,
foaming and vowing to take the
gun and shoot Joe down like a
wallaby. But when he saw two
horses hanging up he hesitated
and would have gone away again
had Mother not called out that
he was wanted. He went in
reluctantly.
Red Donovan and his son,
Mick, were there. Donovan was
the publican, butcher and horse-
dealer at the Overhaul. He was
reputed to be well in, though
some said that if everybody had
their own he wouldn’t be worth
much. He was a glib-tongued
Irishman who knew everything
—or fondly imagined he did —
from the law to horse-surgery.
There was money to be made
out of selections, he reckoned,
if selectors only knew how to
make it. The majority, he pro-
claimed, didn’t know enough to
get under a tree when it rained.
As a dealer he was a hard nut,
never giving more than a tenner
for a twenty-pound beast, or sell-
ing a ten-pound one for less
than twenty pound. And few
knew Donovan better than did
Dad, or had been taken in by
him oftener. But on this
occasion Dad was in no easy or
benevolent frame of mind.
He sat down, and they talked
of crops and the weather, and
beat about the bush until
Donovan said “Have you any
fat steers to sell?”
Dad hadn’t. “But,” he said,
“I can sell you a horse.”
“Which one?” asked
Donovan, for he knew the horses
as well as Dad did—perhaps
better,
“The bay—Farmer,”
“How much?”
“Seven pounds.” Now,
Farmer was worth fourteen
pounds, if worth a shilling—that
is, before he took sick—and
Donovan knew it well.
“Seven,” he repeated, ponder-
ingly. “Give you six.”
Never before did Dad show
himself such an expert in dis-
simulation. He shook his head
knowingly, and inquired of
Donovan if he would take the
horse for nothing.
“Split the difference, then.
Make it six ten.”
Dad rose and looked out the
window. “There he is now,” he
remarked sadly, “in the gully
there.”
“Well, what’s it to be—six ten
or nothing?” asked Donovan.
“All right, then,” Dad replied
demurely. “Take him!”
The money was paid there and
then and receipts drawn up.
Then, saying that Mick would
come for the horse on the day
following, and after offering a
little gratuitous advice on seed-
wheat and pig-sticking, the
Donovans left.
Mick came the next day, and
Dad showed him Farmer, under
the bushes. He wasn’t dead, be-
cause when Joe sat on him he
moved, “There he is,” said Dad,
grinning.
Mick remained seated on his
horse, bewildered-looking, star-
ing first at Farmer, then at Dad.
“Well?” Dad remarked, still
grinning. Then Mick spoke
feelingly.
“You swindling old crawler !”
he said, and galloped away. It
was well for him he got a good
start.
For long after that we turned
the horses and cows into the little
paddock at night, and if ever the
dog barked Dad would jump up
and go out in his shirt.
We put them back into the
paddock again, and the first
night they were there two cows
got out and went away, taking
with them the chain that fastened
the sliprails. We never saw or
heard of them again; but Dad
treasured them in his heart.
Often, when he was thoughtful,
he would ponder over plans for
getting even with the Donovans
—we knew it was the Donovans,
And Fate seemed to be of Dad’s
mind, for the Donovans got into
“trouble,” and were reported to
be doing time. That pleased
Dad, but the vengeance was a
little vague. He would have liked
a finger in the pie himself.
Four years passed. It was
after supper, and we were all
husking corn in the barn. Old
Anderson and young Tom
Anderson and Mrs, Maloney
were helping us. We were to
assist them the following week.
The barn was illuminated by fat-
lamps, which made the spiders in
the rafters uneasy and disturbed
the slumbers of a few fowls that
for months had insisted on roost-
ing on the cross-beam.
Mrs. Maloney was arguing
with Anderson. She was claim-
ing to have husked two cobs to
his one, when the dogs started
barking savagely. Dad crawled
from beneath a heap of husks
and went out. The night was
dark. He made the dogs lie
down. They barked louder.
“Damn you, lie down!” he
roared. They shut up. Then a
voice from the darkness said
“Is that you, Mr. Rudd?”
Dad failed to recognise if, and
went to the fence where the
visitor was. He remained there
talking for fully half an hour.
Then he returned and said it was
young Donovan.
“Donovan! Mick Donovan?”
exclaimed Anderson. And
Mother and Mrs. Maloney and
Joe echoed “Mick Donovan?”
They were surprised.
“He’s none too welcome,” said
Anderson, thinking of his horses
and cows. Mother agreed with
him, while Mrs. Maloney
repeated over and over again
that she was always under the
impression that Mick Donovan
was in jail along with his bad
old father. Dad was uncom-
municative. There was some-
thing on his mind. He waited
till the company had gone, then
consulted with Dave.
They were outside, in the
dark, and leant on the dray.
Dad said in a low voice “He’s
come a hundred miles to day, ’n’
his horse is dead-beat, ’n’ he
wants one t’ take him t’ Back
Creek t’morrow ’n’ leave this one
•in his place ... What d’ y*
think?” Dave seemed to think a
great deal, for he said nothing.
“Now,” continued Dad, “it’s
my opinion the horse isn’t his.
It’s one he’s shook —an‘ I’ve an
idea.” Then he proceeded to
instruct Dave in the idea. A
while later he called Joe and
drilled him in the idea.
That night young Donovan
stayed at Shingle Hut. In the
morning Dad was very affable.
He asked Donovan to come and
show him his horse, because he
must see it before thinking of
exchanging. They proceeded to
the paddock together. The horse
was standing under a tree, tired-
looking. Dad stood and looked
at Donovan for fully' half a
minute without speaking.
“Why, damn it!” he exclaimed
at last. “That’s my own horse.
You don’t mean ... S’ help
me! Old Bess’s foal!”
Donovan told him he was
making a mistake.
“Mistake be hanged!” replied
Dad, walking round the animal.
“Not much of a mistake about
him !”
Just here Dave appeared, as
was proper.
“Do you know this horse?”
Dad asked him. “Yes, of
course,” he answered surprisedly,
with his eyes wide open. “Bess’s
foal! Of course it is.”
“There you are!” said Dad,
grinning triumphantly.
Donovan seemed uneasy.
Joe in his turn appeared. Dad
put the same question to him.
Of course Joe knew Bess’s foal,
“the one that got stole.”
There was a silence.
“Now,” said Dad, looking
very grave, “what have y’ got t’
say? Who’d y’ get him off?
Show’s y’r receipt.”
Donovan had nothing to say.
He preferred to be silent.
“Then,” Dad went on, “clear
out of this as fast as you can go,
an’ think y’rself lucky.”
He cleared, but on foot.
Dad gazed after him, and, as
he left the paddock said “One
too many f’r y’ that time, Mick
Donovan! ” Then to Dave, who
was still looking at the horse,
“He’s a stolen one right enough,
but he’s a beauty, and we’ll keep
him; and if the owner ever
comes for him, well—if he is the
owner —he can have him, that’s
all.”
We had the horse for eighteen
months and more. One day Dad
rode him to town. He was no
sooner there than a man came up
and claimed him. Dad objected.
The man went off and brought a
policeman. “Orright,” Dad said,
“take him.” The policeman
took him. He took Dad, too.
The lawyer got Dad off, but it
cost us five bags of potatoes.
Dad didn’t grudge them, for he
reckoned we’d had value. Be-
sides he was, even with the
Donovans for the two cows.
His occasional exertions of
influence were those rather of
tradition than of a man.
So that his appearance full of
muscle and drive in 1940 was
his most staggering performance
of all, With the world for a
stage and nations and armies for
his playthings.
It was characteristic of his
quality that the very mistakes in
which he shared, and which
killed his partner Chamberlain,
floated him to immortality. He
now proved himself the
indestructible man whom disaster
merely melted into a new and
freshly-energised form.
He could survive even the
staggering shock of the defeat
of 1945 at the height of his
greatest fame and popularity;
and come back for the last time,
at an age when most of the
world’s great have been either
long dead or safely out to grass,
complete master of himself and
of the nation, the Prime
Minister par excellence, the
academician, the sporting man,
the strategist and the owner,
managing-director and chief-
engineer of the world’s most
profitable literary - production
business.
In comparing him to Leonardo
da Vinci in his versatility of
interests and capabilities (as the
author does) it seems, on the
matter of the book, that on the
whole the honors are with
Churchill, except on the score of
art. No novelist could invent
a life like his and get away with
it. The very sweep of it would
defeat any writer of fiction.
Everything about him except his
physical size seems tremendous
—even his personal pettinesses
and foibles. He has been the
central actor in the world’s
greatest dramas, but he is still
a sentimentalist, with a weakness
for humorous or romantic films
—he saw Lady Hamilton eight
times —and loves singing old
school songs and bricklaying.
Miss Cowles sums him up:
He not only stands head and
shoulders above a century of power-
ful statesmen, hut his vitality, hie
mastery of the English language,
his contribution to literature, his
scientific inventiveness, his painting,
his farflung interests from house-
building to racehorses, and even his
astonishing constitution, place him
in a category far removed from
mere mortals... .Yet although his
accomplishments set him apart as a
giant, students of the future may
find his character the most unusual
subject of all With Churchill it
is possible to see selfishness flash
into generosity; mischievousness
retreat before a strict code of Vic-
torian morals; impulsiveness retreat
into wisdom; dejection surge into
wit; flouts and jeers dissolve into
warm and loyal friendship. And
shining through all the contradic-
tions of his mercurial temperament
is a burning courage.
ALOES AND SEA
The aloes stand along the shore
and stitch the driftwood of the
sea
to a nest of air and broken
shells—
a honeycomb of air and bubbles.
The paddock shifts into the sea,
the lip of earth hangs on the air:
the aloe blades flash in the sun
but the stringy roots cry “Where
"is the stone to bind us fast,
to grip and hold us firm
against the wind, the tearing sea,
the night and subtle storm
“that gnaws the earth along its
nerve
and only leaves its caves of air?”
The aloes stand along the shore
and stitch the driftwood to the
tides
and grope for the fallen binding
stone
and cry “Why is this storm, why
harm?”
But sea and wind along the shore
seem to moan “Reclaim,
reclaim.”
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO KEITH CLARK late of Narrabri in
the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARY KATHLEEN CLARK
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 419
of 1953 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the \L9th October 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. ASHER OLD &
JONES, Solicitors, of 5 Bligh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ROBERT THOMAS FREEHILL-
WILSON formerly of Sydney in the State
of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
GWENNETH NOEL FREEHILL-WILSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2345
of 1953 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the sth day of October 1953
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from JOHN BARNETT GREAVES,
Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ILMA LAURINE WIGGINS late of
455 Dowling Street Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that ROY JAMES WIGGINS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1311 of
1949 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 25th September 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. A. ALISTER
JOHNSON & McDonald, Solicitors, of
17 Bolton Street, Newcastle, or their
Sydney Agents. MESSRS. JOHN COR-
CORAN & CO., 2 York Street. Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ERNEST PERCIVAL GREENTREE
formerly of Hoskins Street Nyngan in
the State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that DOROTHY GLADYS
GREENTREE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1075 of 1953 on the ground
of desertion for 3 years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 27th day of
October 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition free of charge from MESSRS.
DAVID S. DIND & CO., Solicitors, 67
Castlereagh St., Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
ifidHMmM
easier, quicker
'C
few. >
a
s
3
Gillette
D® M®o DISPENSER
w
\\
i
i
»•*
sc**
Ten Blue Gillette Blades
ready for instant use!
o
r
11
/
and... a place to
hold used blades!
Speed up your shaving and end the 'used blade
nuisance at the same time! The new Gillette 10-
Blade Dispenser gives you factory-sharp blades ready
for instant use. Sharpest edges in the world com-
pletely oil protected by new exclusive Gillette
process. Simply stow away your used blades in the
built-in compartment at the back.
mmmmmmmmrnn
BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
SI7
and it costs you nothing extra
... you pay only for the blades!
SEE!
NEW 10-Blade Mr n
DISPENSER ... 4 2
10 Blade PACKET. . . 4/2
5 Blade PACKET ... 2/1
20 Blade DISPENSER . 8/4
"GOOD MORNINGS" BEGIN WITH GILLETTE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Typist, Sydney, wants typing work,
will type and correct author’s manu-
scripts, neat and accurate. —5554.
Englishman (48), ex-sick-bay chief
petty officer, Royal Navy, 30 years’
service; five years with English hos-
pitals, wants position with N.S.W.
metropolitan or country hospital.
Arriving Sydney middle next October.
—5555.
To buy Tarragon seeds or plants.—
5551.
Italian helmet and other souvenirs,
relics, World War I and 11, from
buttons to machine-guns.—sss3.
Does Anybody Know?
Text and source of story in which
Winston Churchill gives his opinion
on ending a sentence with a preposi-
tion. —5552.
Information Sought
What body of troops are the
Zouaves ?
They are a body of infantry troops
in the French Army, so called from
the Kabyle (Algeria) tribe of Zwawa,
from whom General Clausel formed
a regiment in 1831. These native
troops were at first officered by
Frenchmen, and a certain number of
Frenchmen were included in the
ranks, but this proved unsatisfactory,
and the native element gradually died
out. The Zouaves are among the
most carefully chosen troops »n the
French Army. The picturesque
Moorish dress is still maintained. Inc
Zouaves fought in North Africa under
Leclerc in the Second World War.
* * * *
Some particulars about former
Rugby League half-back Duncan
Thompson?
Born at Warwick (Q.) on Feb. 19,
1895, he first represented Queensland
in 1915. In 1916 he played in Sydney
(with North Sydney), then enlisted
and, in France on Apl. 5, 1918,
received a bullet through the chest
and invalided home. Though still
affected by the wound, he was again
selected for Queensland in 1919, and
in the same yedr toured N.Z. with
the Australian team. In 1920 he
transferred to Sydney and his reputa-
tion was such that he was selected
for N.S.W. before he had played a
club game in Sydney. He represented
N.S.W. in 1920, 1921 and 1922, and
in 1924 and 1925 played again for
Queensland. He played in Tests
against the visiting English teams of
1920 and 1924, and toured England
with the Australasian team (1921-22).
In all he played in seven Tests against
England. In 1924 he opened a sports-
store in Toowoomba (Q.) which he
still controls. He retired in 1925, but
has since done considerable coaching.
Many regard him as the greatest Aus-
tralian Rugby League half-back of
all time.
* * » *
A few particulars about Van
Diemen, after whom Tasmania was
first named?
He was Anthony Van Diemen, a
Dutch explorer and colonial governor,
born at Kuilenberg. He went to
India as a government accountant and
in 1625 became a member of the
Supreme Council. In 1631 he re-
turned to Holland in command of
the Dutch Indian fleet, and the fol-
lowing year was sent back as director-
general. Later he become governor-
general, in which capacity he greatly
extended Dutch interests in the Far
East. In 1642 he sent Abel Tasman
on a voyage to the South, the result
of which was the discovery of the
island which was named after him
Van Diemen’s Land, but which, at
the instance of its British colonists,
was changed to Tasmania.
♦ * * *
Who was Stefan von Kotze? Did
he write in English or German ?
Have his writings been collected and
published ?
Stefan von Kotze was bom in
Germany in 1869 and died in 1909.
, He was a frequent contributor to
The Bulletin and other journals both
in Australia and abroad in the
’nineties and the early part of this
century. He wrote in both German
and English, and A. G. Stephens said
of him that he envied Daley’s facility,
as it took him days to write a poem.
Much of, his work was published
during his lifetime in Germany in
book-form, but only Australian
Sketches, translated by L. L. Politzer,
Melbourne, 1945, is available in
English. He was a keen observer
with a sense of humor, and his stories
are interesting as showing the impact
of the Australian bush and bush-life
on Continental Europeans.
* * * *
Who invented the typewriter?
The typewriter in its modern form
was invented about 1870 by three
men, Scholes, Glidden and Soule,
working together, their experiments
being financed by Densmore. Glidden
and Soule retired from the experi-
ments, and afterwards Yost was called
in to express an opinion as expert
mechanic. Acting on his advice
Densmore and Scholes took the
machine to the Remington Company,
gunmakers, who had suitable tools
for making such a machine economi-
cally. Remington’s took it up and
gave it their name, hence the Reming-
ton typewriter. It is interesting to
note that Scholes, Densmore and
Yost all invented other typewriters
afterwards.
Brief Answers
W.R.D.: These animals are pro-
tected in most States. Write to the
Chief Secretary’s Dept., Brisbane, for
particulars of the law regarding native
fauna. They are non-camivorous,
but any vegetable bait laid for them
would be readily taken by a hungry
dog, and would be most destructive
to bird-life R.W.: The Sovereign
of the Seas, the second wooden
clipper ship of that name, Black Ball
Line, 1226 tons, built 1856, was burnt,
September, 1861, while discharging
at Campbell’s Wharf, Sydney, and is
supposed to have been maliciously
set on fire. Her hull was repaired
and made into the S.S. T. S. Mort,
which was lost in 1863 W.W.:
The Commonwealth National Library,
Canberra, has compiled “A Biblio-
graphy of Adam Lindsay Gordon,”
which you may obtain from them
upon application... .E.D.: Whitaker’s
Almanack is a British work of refer-
ence, published annually since 1869.
It was founded by Joseph Whitaker
(1820-1895), who also published
theological and fine-art works, and
started the “Bookseller” (1858).
Whitaker’s Almanack is a comprehen-
sive reference-book in one volume
and has become a standard work of
its kind J.W.F.: The novel Manon
Lescaut, by Abbe Prevost, was pub-
lished originally as an addition (vol.
VII) to The Memoirs and Adventures
of a Man of Quality. There was no
essential connection between the addi-
tion and the main body of the novel.
Manon Lescaut is easily detachable,
and within two years was printed as
a separate novel. It is the only work
of Prevost which is read nowadays.
C.V.H.: Water the court with
a mixture of 11b. sulphuric acid to
3gal. water. Make the mixture in
an earthenware vessel, as it is destruc-
tive to metal. Keep it off plants.
Another method is to water with a
mixture of one part carbolic acid to
40 parts water L. 8.: George
Franklin Edmunds (1828-1919) was an
American Senator (Republican) and
well-known Constitutional lawyer. In
1883-85 he was president pro tetm of
the Senate. He was author of the
Act for the suppression of polygamy
in Utah, and of the anti-trust law of
1890... .E.T.: Try Grahame Book
Co,, Prudential Building, 39 Martin-
Elace, Sydney K.McC.S.: Contact
iverpool and London and Globe
Insurance Co., Ltd., 62 Pitt-street,
Sydney 8.F.: (1) Try N.S.W. I
Department of Agriculture. (2) Not
advisable without the help of a vet.
G.B-R.: Cobdenism is the poli-
tical and economic doctrines of
Richard Cobden (1804-65), English
statesman and economist, leader, with
John Bright, in the anti-Corn-Law
movement. He favored peace, free-
trade and withdrawal from the Euro-
pean competition for balance-of-
power F.J.K.: Yes, John Philip
Sousa, the American conductor and
composer, wrote two novels, The
Fifth String and Pipetown Shanty, and
a book of reminiscences, Marching
Along... .L.D.: Spirit-of-nitre is a
liquid made by acting upon alcohol
with a mixture of sulphuric and nitric
acids and copper. It is used in
medicine and its chief constituent is
ethyl nitrite.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted ;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor ; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
L.L.: There was no need to tell
us that it was a first effort A.P.:
Not buying any tickets for a trip to
the m00n... .W.R.S.; It gave the
Religious Editor the horrors
R.8.C.: If there is a story in that
mass of verbiage you have success-
fully bidden it....N.H.: Too slight
for us D.L.C.: Frame it and send
to your dentist... .O.B.: We can see
no future ahead of you while you
continue to write in that fashion....
W.S.H.: Whatever gave you the im-
pression that we were in the market
for fairy stories? E.J.D.: “Where
Did It End?” In the basket
H.S.: Too many characters for a
tale of that length J.C.W.; The
Indian hawker is travelling the long
road home... .T.M.K.: When writing
for The Bulletin remember that you
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
are writing for an Australian audience.
C.B.S.: No need for covering
letters, certainly not the covering
letter that gives a synopsis of
the story submitted... .T.E.: Your
aboriginal detective is too like the
character invented by Arthur Upfield.
... .R.S.C.: Just another “Lost
Week End” story... .W.A.: We will
do our best to struggle along without
the help of “Hippo the Hypnotist.”
V.McG.: It might fill a fiction
column in one of the afternoon
dailies S.S.A.: For a start scrap
the long and unnecessary introduction.
....F.M.: Honestly, have you ever
heard anyone talk like the characters
in your yarn? L.E.: Put it aside
until the next beer-shortage and re-
submit... .C.F.F.: It got away to a
slow start, but finished at such a mad
gallop that we are still confused as
to what did happen L.H.E.: That
angel-child belongs to old-time fiction,
not to real life... .H.C.8.: That
punch-drunk has had his day....
J.V.C.: Most stories are as old as
Methuselah, but good ones aren’t as
garrulous... .T.S.: No girl sins these
days—it’s too old-fashioned... .A.L.:
Well-typed, but not well-written
J.R.: What your alleged old-time
prospector needed was a mine of
information F.T.D.: If beauty
were truth, your story would be
damned twice A.G.R.: There is
much in what you say, also in our
w.p.b C.K.: Cute... .T.P.L.: Of
course she could have given herself
to him without reserve, but not at a
Government House garden-party....
R. : It’s a long time since we saw
it last, but we still remembered it.
F.V.: It had a feeling of inevita-
bility about it: it began badly, went
on worse, and ended frightfully....
S. : Might do elsewhere
A.W.J.: How can anything worth
while happen when you won’t permit
a stain on your characters?... .T.: If
we printed that story we’d be infring-
ing our own copyright J. 8.1.: You
observe everything but the law of
probability... .F.R.: Liked your
undertaker getting married in the
same suit he buried in ; but the rest
didn’t live up to it.


1
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
OS
O©** 6
No ■
I*7
i dhi€a£'(k*
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particular* gladly tapplltd—
Writ, to OA«$ GELATINE: G.PO. Bm 3583.
SYDNEY • S.P.O. Bov 4058, .MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
Bov U». ADELAIDE • S.P.O. Bov 7SBK. BRISBANE
• S.P.O, Bov BBS. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
Chemistry Serving Primary Industry
m
asiuiiivivffi
Irulene
DDT \
.FIELD CROP/
SPRAY.
MIXES EASILY WITH WATER
dsf
mam
DDT FIELD CROP SPRAY FOR LINSEED,
OATS, BARLEY, LUCERNE. SORGHUM
Manufactured by Australia's largest producers of DDT.
TAUBMANS CHEMICALS PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE. MFA BOURNE. PRISOANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
4
HYGEIA DISSOLYENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage m
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
ds
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage I*
absorbed Into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write lor free illustrated pamphlet-
— DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. : Hygeia Dissolvenator Diat. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St, Sydney-
QUEENSLAND: Hy«eia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 480 Collins St.,
Melbourne. . _ .
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Rundl
St., Adelaide. „
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P- »<:-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St Perth#
TASMANIA: ’ Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services. .
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N-Z-), Wdlwley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland-
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
76ibs.
• -
Sturdy battery -
lighting set. 12 Volt e« •
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road. Newtown
SYDNEY. LA 3597,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Drought Feeding
“Q. Chap”: Interesting re-
sults are being obtained by the
C.5.1.R.0. in experimental
drought-feeding of sheep. The
work is being done in conjunc-
tion with the N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture.
The sheep are given a
“drought ration” of grain, such
as grain-sorghum, wheat, barley
and oats, and it has been found
that sheep do equally well on
any of the grains ; the best of
them, if there is any difference
at all, being oats. No roughage
of any kind is given.
A point of interest is that
when the sheep are fed only
once a week those on grain-
sorghum clean-up their feed in
about 2\ days and then go with-
out for the rest of the week,
apparently suffering no discom-
fort. When fed wheat or barley
once a week sheep took from
three to four days to eat up their
ration, while with oats they took
about five days.
This might have considerable
practical significance in a dry
time. If, for instance, there was
not a complete drought on a
property and some feed was left
in the paddocks, it might be
advantageous to feed grain-
sorghum as the main ration once
a week. This would be cleaned-
up fairly quickly, and during
the rest of the week, through
hunger, the sheep would prob-
ably be inclined to walk round
the paddock and eat whatever
grass was available. On the
other hand, if there was a com-
plete drought and no feed of
any kind in the paddock, it might
be better to feed oats. The
sheep would spin these out over
five days, and be more con-
tented for a longer period as
well as tending to stay round
the feeding-point.
Rain By Order?
“Archaps”: The chief of the
Radiophysics Division of
C.5.1.R.0. (Dr. E. G. Bowen)
believes that within the next
decade a grazier will be able to
Sit> BuACH,
"No, mate-not three dimensional; just th'
usual pictures."
phone his local weather office
for a supply of rain. Dr.
Bowen said rain-making was
now an established science ; and
there was no longer any gues-
sing or hoping about it.
By bombarding a suitable
cloud with dry-ice or spraying
it with water, rain could be
produced in satisfactory
quantities.
Ten scientists were now en-
gaged on this work, and had
virtually unlimited Common-
wealth funds to work on. Hav-
ing established the complete
feasibility of rain-making, they
were now working to find a
method of doing it cheaply and
more simply. When that stage
was reached —and it would be
in five to ten years —it would
open a new developmental era
for north Queensland and the
Northern Territory, where con-
ditions for rain-making were
more suitable than elsewhere in
the Commonwealth, owing to the
heavy cumulus-cloud formations
that drift across that area.
Australia, said Dr. Bowen, led
the world in this work. In
America scientists had tried to
bring their work into practical
application too quickly and had
failed, because they had not got
completely through the labora-
tory stage. Over many months
of experiments in Australia, rain
had been produced over areas
of 20 to 50 square miles on 200
different occasions. Each time
the falls had measured from
iin. to iin., and had occurred
15 to 20 minutes after clouds
had been “treated.” The rain
had lasted about an hour. All
experiments to date had been
conducted within a 200-mile
radius of Sydney.
Two methods are used. In
one a radar mounted on the
ground or in a plane showed
the presence of ice particles in
high cloud. The plane then flew
over the top of the cloud spray-
ing about 1001 b. of dry-ice
pellets about the size of peas
into it. The other method was
used on clouds too low for ice
to have formed in them. These
clouds were examinee! until one
was found with a good moisture
content. The plane then flew
into the bottom of the cloud
spraying 1001 b. of water to the
mile, which brought down the
cloud’s own moisture-content,
causing rain. Cost is the biggest
barrier to widespread rain-
making by farmers at present.
The scientific team used two
R.A.A.F. Dakotas. It cost
£lOO an hour to operate such
an aircraft, and it took 15
minutes to treat one cloud.
Farrowing Losses
“Springvale”: The sow is a
good mother if left in the pad-
dock. There she prepares for
farrowing, rooting a hole in the
ground in a sheltered position
and lining it with grass and
straw for a nest. In the pen,
often with a concrete floor and
a low farrowing rail around the
wall, she probably has some
straw, which she manages to
arrange to the best of her ability,
but concrete is much harder than
bare earth, and a piglet has little
chance of survival if rolled on.
If the sow must be penned the
concrete floor will be improved
if a wooden platform is placed
on it and the sow confined to a
narrow section by movable
hurdles, in which she is unable
to turn round. The platform is
warmer, and, with plenty of
straw, the new-born pigs can
get out of reach of the sow and
burrow into the straw outside
the hurdles.
Bigger litters can be reared by
sloping the wooden platforms
towards the back of the pen. Use
a platform preferably sft. by
Bft. with a slope of Sin, to the
back wall. At the foot of the
slope provide a “hover”; a
braced horizontal board Ift.
wide secured lOin. from the
floor would do. Guard-rails
along each side at the same
height complete the safeguard.
At the top of the slope in front
of the pen provide a hurdle so
that the sow can be kept on the
sloping floor while farrowing.
Straw placed under the hover
keeps the piglets snug and
warm.
Getting Your Wool Off
“C.S.”: Any non-professional
person who takes on a technical
job, whether it’s timing his own
motor-engine, welding a new
point on a ploughshare, or mak-
ing out his own income-tax
return, is asking for trouble
without expert guidance. This
he gets from his car’s instruction-
book, from the advice sent with
the tax-form or other printed
and illustrated guides on doing
the work.
We’ve found our new
Bulletin Wool Type Card fills
the same need. Our 367 ewes
and wethers will be shorn by a
travelling two-stand plant in
about a fortnight and we class
the wool ourselves. It’s been a
bit of a headache, as all small
lots are, but the type-card is
better than a pound of aspirin
for the purpose. We reckon
we’ve got the best part of a
classer for our 7s. 6d. (cost of
the card, post-free), and can
only wonder why the deuce the
thing wasn’t available before
this.
Hybrid Maize
“Zea”: One of the reasons for
the high price of hybrid-seed
maize is the long period involved
in producing pure inbred
parents and then testing various
double combinations of these.
Another expensive item is the
cost of detasselling the female
parent in the crossing pro-
gramme.
A male-sterile female parent
has the advantage of saving the
labor of this detasselling. It
also eliminates the hazard of
improper detasselling due to
weather and human error, and
its ensured pollen-control gives
a better quality of hybrid seed.
Male-sterile seed stocks are
already being used in the pro-
duction of hybrid-seed maize in
U.S.A., but they will become
useful in Australia only when
this character is incorporated
into a suitable inbred, and then
into the female single-cross
parent.
Cattle for the North
“Oxo”: C. P. Edwards,
Abingdon Downs, says short-
haired cattle with red eyes are
the kind of Herefords the north
of Queensland and Gulf coun-
try require. Blight there was
very bad, and white around the
eye was of no use, as it was
too delicate, and resulted in too
many cancers.
Bulls going north, he sug-
gests, should be low-set, short-
haired, red-eyed, with good
heads and hindquarters. Anv
herd there would get small and
go to seed unless heifers were
culled each year for constitu-
tion, quality or size and speyed
as yearlings.
Hide color he considers a
matter of fancy. Any beef
color was good provided the
rest of the beast was right
Personally Edwards prefers
dark red. Show-ring-condition
bulls took more care and letting-
down after they reached their
destination than paddock-reared
bulls, and for that reason he
prefers the paddock-reared.
Preparing the Hives
S.”: In August the bees seek
the new season’s honey and
pollen sources. As the days ad-
vance further into spring more
and more field-bees are freed
from the brood-warming cluster
and join the foraging band. It
is time for the beekeeper to take
a hand and help where he can.
If the main flow for his dis-
trict breaks early he needs to
hurry the queen in her estab-
lishment of the new brood-nest.
When the bees are covering five
frames compactly the brood-
nest can be split, i.e., a good
black comb can be inserted in
the centre of the cluster. The
queen, if young and active, will
PROSPECTS GOOD
Every sign that can be studied
indicates a strong future
demand for wool, and par-
ticularly for well-classed wool.
To get the best possible return
from his sheep every farmer
who does his own classing
should have “The Bulletin”
Wool Typo Card as a guide.
Send 7s. 6d. for one now.


THE
“Kalsteel”
( Registered )
POST
Actual size
top section
ENGINEER
DESIGNED
FOR MAXIMUM STRENGTH
PROMPT
and continuous delivery
on and as from 7 September, 1953
Registered Design
fds
JiS Standard drillings
• Double-ribbed bade
O Precision-sheared point
• The posts nest well for packing
• Bituminous-paint coated to resist rust
® Manufactured from 3 inch x J inch steel
• Equal stressed flanges providing the utmost strength
APPROVED BY LEADING PASTORALIST HOUSES
sft. tin. post, 4/2
F.O.R. SYDNEY
5 ft. Sin. post , 4/6
F.O.R. SYDNEY
7 ft. Sin. post, 6/11
FjO.R. sydnby
ORDER NOW FROM YOUR WOOLBROKER OR STORE
?R OOUCt
L Of
KeA lAIRD
313 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. C 3541
256 FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE. W 2326
1 BOND STREET. SYDNEY. 8U2614
hnmediately lay this comb out
to restore the nest to normalcy.
In a week or so the process can
be repeated.
This forcing of the queen
means that in three weeks there
will hatch roughly an additional
3000 bees to the comb. Spread-
ing before the brood-nest covers
five frames, however, is not
wise, for a sudden snap of cold
weather will undo all the
advantage.
Uptil experience teaches, it is
wise to examine the new comb
for sign of acceptance. If the
queen hasn’t taken advantage of
it, then the manipulator has been
a little too eager for the bees.
From the colonies that have
wintered more strongly than
their neighbors, a sheet of well-
sealed brood can be taken to help
the weaker. It is wise not to
take just-sealed brood, for the
small colony may allow the
sheet to chill overnight. Brood
that is about to emerge can be
adjudged by the wrinkled and
slightly sunken cappings. To-
wards the centre of the sheet
already one or two young bees
may have emerged.
A sheet of brood given at this
stage quite often saves the life of
a young queen and a valued
colony. Moreover, it brings to
maturity the entire yard evenly.
It is of little gain to have a
score of three-decker colonies
boiling with bees, whilst the re-
maining 60 are barely up in the
second super. The hives them-
selves can be interchanged
throughout the yard, i.e., the
removal of a colony which Ms a
strong field-force flying, its place
taken by a weak colony which
badly needs the extra boost that
the homing field-force will give.
The hives readily accept the
force returning laden. The
guards are hostile only to the
empty bee, who hovers at the
corners, legs back and ready to
flee the instant it is challenged.
Later it will be discovered that,
despite assistance, some colonies
lag. Now is the time the win-
tered-over “nukes” are placed.
The queen of the backward
colonies needs to be destroyed
and the nuke, with its young
summer or autumn queen, united
over a sheet of newspaper to the
dequeened hive. With the three
frames of brood gained from
the nuke and the immediate
acceptance of the young queen,
the backward hive becomes
overnight one of the strongest.
Attention to these simple
manipulations will result in a
strong, uniform force of hives
to attend to the flows that come
with the summer months. These
dodges amount to nothing if
throughout there is not a steady
intake of both nectar and pollen
to stimulate the honey-grubbers.
Grow Rosellas
“Pop’s Gal”; If you live in a
district with a fairly long grow-
ing season, now is the time to
sow seeds of rosella —the vege-
tables, not the parrots;
Using the same method as
for early tomato-plants, sow
thinly in rows Sin. apart, in soil
which has been well enriched
with rotted manure.
They make sturdy plants and
are easy to transplant when
about 4in. high. Set 4ft. or sft.
apart. Mulch before the really
hot weather comes.
Given plenty of water,
rosellas are ready to pick in six
months from planting out. The
calyx only is used for jam and
jelly. Remove the outer casing
before it becomes too woody.
This is written on the S. Aust.
west coast.
Tobacco-seed
“Nicot”: August is the month
for sowing tobacco in the seed-
beds. It is now generally known
that tobacco-seed has a post-
harvest period of dormancy of
three or four months, sometimes
longer.
If, however, seed has been
harvested later than April its
dormancy can be broken by ger-
minating it in strong light. As
much exposure as possible to
sunlight should therefore be
given. Careful watering with a
fine spray stops the soil from
covering the seed, thus allow-
ing it the necessary light for
quick and high percentage of
germination.
Hints for the Farm
“Bill C.”: A hoary old fallacy
is that watches and clocks can be
ruined by overwinding. Watch
and clock specialists say that a
time-piece may not be over-
wound without the operator
using considerable force and,
possibly, hurting himself. Even
cheap clocks are better for being
wound to the limit at the same
time daily, or twice daily, as
necessary. When a clock is run-
ning down it loses ; if it is never
properly wound it loses most of
the time,
“Rooster”: After the third
or fourth year herbs tend to
become woody at the expense of
leafage. They can be divided
with a sharp knife into portions
with roots attached. For re-
planting it’s better to use the
outside pieces, discarding the
older central portions. Herbs
do best in soil not too rich.
“Quorn”: It is not enough to
provide month-old chickens
with a box to keep them warm at
night. It is necessary to see that
each one is placed in it in the
evening.
“Peter B.”: At lamb-marking
keep a tin-lid of strychnine
handy and dip the cut end of
some of the larger tails in it.
Later bore holes in the ground
about a hundred yards apart and
push the tails in butt-end down,
leaving a couple of inches above
ground. Drag your trail and
run the drag over the protrud-
ing tails. Foxes will come at
these baits.
“Baroona”: Now is the time
to take suckers from the lilacs
to perpetuate the shrubs already
in the garden. Rich deep soil is
a necessity and a cool climate is
ideal. This is the cheapest way
of gaining new plants, and,
although they will not flower as
rapidly as those from the
nurseries, many plants can be
thus raised instead of buying
them.
“Billjim”: Keep paint off glass
when painting a window-frame
by sticking adhesive-tape round
the edges of the pane, leaving a
fraction of an inch uncovered
next to the frame. Strip the tape
off before the paint is dry.
“Wongamelo”: A Carlton
(Vic.) woman has two solid
silver medallions presented to
her grandfather, W. Miles, of
Geelong (Vic.). One is for cut
flowers in 1856 and one for peas
in 1857 —both first prizes from
the Geelong and Western Dis-
trict Agricultural Society.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Failure of sun-spot activity may reduce the chance of
getting spring cyclical rains, and present indications are
that in the Sydney area there will be occasional light rains
till the middle of September, when a good succession of
rains should begin. Further north good rains should begin
at the close of August. Down in the Southern Ocean
rain will continue until October and a good deal of it should
come north and bring falls on the southern inland areas.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Moorah
As a director of the Moorah Shipping
and Trading Company, owners of the
motor-vessel Moorah, I have been re-
quested to dissociate the company from
that “Other Fellow’s Mind” article “The
Digger Spirit” (B. 22/7/’53).
As far as the article is concerned, it
is true enough that the members of the
syndicate did work exceptionally hard for
a long time endeavoring to arrange for
the ship to be put to sea for the purpose
of carrying out the regular fortnightly
service between Brisbane and Rock-
hampton, and did face considerable diffi-
culties. However, the company does not
wish to be in any way associated with
the article, which was published without
any reference to the company and in such
a manner that it could have a detrimental
effect on the future interest of the com-
pany.
Great difficulty has been experienced
in connection with the project, and now
that the ship has been repaired after its
unfortunate grounding in the Fitzroy
River, and has been completely recaulked,
the company proposes to put it back into
service on its run between Brisbane and
Rockhampton,
It is the ambition of the company to
give to their shippers a regular schedule
and do all in its power to ensure that the
ship departs as per schedule and returns
accordingly.
One of the difficulties in the past was
that the vessel was causing a little wetness
to some of the cargo. A major refit and
complete recaulking have eliminated that
risk.
In fairness to the company and its
members, who have striven since the
purchase of the vessel to make the venture
a profitable concern, I would repeat that
the article published was not at the in-
stigation or with the knowledge of any
member of the company, and that the
company has overcome its difficulties by
way of wet cargo and will be again striv-
ing to give to shippers a regular and
efficient service.—W. Brace (Q.).
The Search for Oil
In his further special pleading for the
Bureau of Mineral Resources’ oil activi-
ties, “Beadonite” (B. 5/8/’53) has been
forced to fall back on irrelevancies.
Every oilman knows that the search for
petroleum, even in the hands of experi-
enced specialists in oil-finding, is fraught
with enormous risks; in the hands of
non-specialists, the gamble has such poor
hopes of return that public money should
not be wasted on it. Undeserved hard
luck is a commonplace, and unmerited
success very occasionally happens, but
both are unrelated to the point at issue.
The expenditure of over £1 million by
Shell in Queensland, and of about £ll
million to date by Australasian
Petroleum and Island Exploration in
Papua, has been met entirely out of their
own funds, and has been incurred on a
recognised hazard in systematic examina-
tion. In Queensland, incidentally, the
State obtained a very fine geological
report free of cost to itself. If “Beadon-
ite” studies the history of the Canadian
oil industry he will find that the work
of Imperial Oil, in particular, led
systematically and almost unfalteringly
to the present result. The wells to which
the term “abortive” can be applied cor-
rectly were drilled mainly by small
organisations, and their total number
falls far short of 200,
The reference to a “true thickness” of
20,000 ft. of marine strata “established”
by the bureau must be intended to apply
to the maximum thickness of the strati-
graphical column of all the beds mapped
in the North-west Basin. The true thick-
ness at any point can be established only
by drilling, and —influenced by unconfor-
mities and other factors —it will vary from
location to location. In any case, the
figure is irrelevant; what is important is
whether oil occurs within the column, in
reach of the available drilling equipment,
and in extensive beds which are both
porous and permeable. That is what
West Australian Petroleum is working to
discover, and it is encouraging to note
that its, reports are free from the un-
justified super-optimism used in the
bureau’s Press releases dealing with the
area.
As a taxpayer, I am relieved to learn
that it is not a function of the bureau
to develop any areas for oil; but, in that
case, it would be interesting to learn what
its intentions were at Nerrima (W.A.),
and why it bought a £320,000 drilling
rig?— P. Mobile (N.S.W.).
The Coolgardie Water Scheme
The question of who first suggested
(he Coolgardie water-scheme bobs up
regularly in Westralia —Parliament dis-
cusses it; an eminent professor was a
few years ago delegated to investigate
public-works archives; and now an
equally eminent University professor
and a company of student researchers are
on the job. And above all soars the
claim of Mat Harper, one-time mining
manager of Kanowna, that he at a
banquet in that one-time prosperous
burg gave the “straight griffin” on the
matter of pumping water from the coastal
ranges to Coolgardie to Sir John Forrest
and the other assembled guests.
The Coolgardie water-scheme is a steel
pipe 2ft, 6in. in diameter, originally 330
miles in length, capable of delivering
5,000,000 gallons daily to the Cool-
gardie and Kalgoorlie goldfields. Start-
ing from a weir in the, hills just east of
Perth the water is lifted and driven by
a series of powerful pumps. The designer
and constructing engineer was C. Y.
O’Connor; the financial genius Sir John
Forrest, first Premier of W.A. Pipe-
laying began early in 1900, the water
arriving at Kalgoorlie (officially) January
26, 1903.
No one denies C. Y. O’Connor the
honor of having designed the scheme.
The argument is; Who first thought of
it?
Let’s go back to the actual beginning,
February, 1894, and begin with a picture
of that year. The Forrest Ministry, the
first under responsible government, was
entering its fourth year of office. Cool-
gardie, discovered by Bayley and Ford
in September, 1892, was struggling to the
end of its second summer. Water was
desperately scarce, and the road from
Southern Cross had been closed to
“swampers” by official edict, the peril of
perishing from thirst being very real.
The telegraph-line to Coolgardie was
barely half-way through, and the railway
from the Cross to Coolgardie not yet
placed on the Estimates. Martin Walsh,
the first to sink a deep well in Cool-
gardie, was winning fame as the “Modern
Moses” ; later in the year he forced the
rock at 157 ft. to yield tolerable water.
Hannans, now Kalgoorlie—discovered
June, 1893—-was still a town of canvas,
still served by a tin-and-canvas one-
roomed post-office. The White Feather
S\t>
*I don't like well-groomed dolls. They give me an inferiority complex."
was a camp of tents, and Kanowna, as
it came later to be called, was not yet
surveyed as a townsite. It lacked even
a post-office or a hotel offering the crudest
accommodation, while the provision of
a branch bank, which might open for
even a few hours weekly, was ardently
wished for. (“Coolgardie Miner,” Aug.-
Sept., 1894.)
Into that pioneer atmosphere a preg-
nant suggestion was launched. The
“West Australian” (8/ 3/’94) published a
letter over the initials
“ From what I saw of the rivers
near York some four months ago it struck
me that there would be at all seasons a
sufficient supply of water for such an
undertaking as I am about to suggest,
A pumping-station at some suitable site,
near Northam; a water-tower to furnish
the necessary elevation, and a pipeline
along the railway, would be all that is
required; unless the altitude of Cool-
"Sorry, we don't sell dog's meat."
gardie necessitated the erection of a
second station ”
In June of that year (1894) Sir John
Forrest decided that it was time he had
a look at these goldfields which were be-
ginning to stir the world —Southern
Cross, Coolgardie, Hannans. He did not
visit either White Feather or Kumalpi.
He did visit the Golden Mile —to be the
Ivanhoe —the Great Boulder, Lake View
and Brownhill, then worked to only a few
feet by windlass or whip-horse. Sir John,
however, was shown things which, he
declared later, seemed like a dream.
Returned to Coolgardie he was given
a banquet at de Baun’s Great Western
Hotel —60 plates at £2 2s. each. The
list of speakers is still to be found in
the “Coolgardie Miner.” Not one name
begins with “H.” The idea of pumping
water from the coastal ranges was not
mentioned.
Before this visit by the Premier, Cool-
gardie had been visited by the Commis-
sioner for Public Works, H. V, Venn,
accompanied by his Chief Engineer, C. Y,
O’Connor. Their main object was to
investigate the possibility of water-con-
servation. From that visit emerged a,
number of catchment-areas and tanks
which made the road to the goldfields
much safer. But if the Chief Engineer
in that January of 1894 had any thoughts
on the possibility of pumping water from
the coast to Coolgardie he did not dis-
close them to any newspaper.
The next suggestion—and real proposal
—came from a John Maher, described in
the Press as a well-known contractor.
With his engineer, Henry Wright, Maher
formed a deputation which was intro-
duced to the Minister for Lands hv
McKernan, M.L.C. by
Maher asked for a franchise to enable
tofake water from the tributaries
of the Upper Swan, possibly the Avon •
to build an Sin. pipeline; and to estak
hsh pumping-stations with the object of
delivering 1,000,000 gallons daily at
Coolgardie. The estimated cost was
£1,000,000, to obtain which he pro-
posed to go on the London market.
An outline of Maher’s scheme may be
found in the “West Australian”
(17/9/’94) and in the “Western Mail” of
a week later.
The Minister expressed his apprecia-
tion of the proposal—“thought it a very
good idea” —but could give no immedi-
ate answer, since the matter would re-
quire Cabinet consideration. He also
suggested that the Government itself
might build such a pipeline.
Maher’s proposal attracted much
public attention and was discussed in a
leading article in the next day’s “West
Australian,” the Hackett-Harper news-
paper which expressed considerable
hostility towards any such scheme. A
few days later the “Coolgardie Miner”
printed an interview with Maher, who
declared that, given the franchise, he
would deliver a supply of pure fresh
water in Coolgardie within two years.
Considerable correspondence followed
in the “West Australian,” several com-
petent engineers supporting the proposal.
The issue of October 18 published a full
column article by “Wanderer”: .The
proposal is now made that the waste
waters from one of West Australia’s main
rivers should be devoted to supplying the
wants of our large goldfields popula-
tion Briefly speaking, the idea is to
construct what may be called a large
dam in the Avon River, near Northam,
and from this dam by means of steel
pipes and powerful pumps, with a system
of reservoirs, to force the water to Cool-
gardie.”
The article concludes with thanks to
Maher: “Anyhow, whatever may be the
outcome of Mr. Maher’s proposals the
country is indebted to him for showing
a feasible scheme of supplying our gold-
fields with water He has thrown a
serious responsibility upon the Govern-
ment of considering the feasibility of the
scheme; and if this is conceded and his
proposals rejected, it would appear as if
in the country’s best interests the Gov-
ernment would have no alternative but
to undertake a similar work itself.”
History records that the Government’s
answer to John Maher was “in the
negative.” But there seems no doubt
that John Maher and his engineer, Henry
Wright, were the first to present a work-
able proposal for the building of what
came to be the Coolgardie Water Scheme.
In a leader (30/10 / ’94) the “Coolgardie
Miner,” while fegretting the Govern-
ment’s refusal, declared that it had inside
knowledge that Maher had been assured
of considerable financial support and
that a company was to have been floated
in London, where shares would have been
readily taken up. It concluded with: “The
Premier is now rank Socialist and strongly
opposed to private enterprise of any
kind,”
The Enabling Bill, to raise a loan of
£2,500,000 for the construction of the
Coolgardie Water Supply, was ca rned
in its final reading on September 3, 1896
—just on two years after John Mahers
proposal had been turned down. W*
Charnley (W.A.).


Pidgin English
Sidney J. Baker, in “S. M. Herald”
(18/7/’53), takes two members of the
U.N. Trusteeship Council to task for de-
manding that Australia should drop the
use of pidgin English among the New
Guinea natives. His argument in brief:
pidgin had become a lingua franca be-
tween tribes (illiterate money-grabbing
traders would see to that!), its crude
vocabulary rarely exceeded 700 words
(isn’t Basic English encompassed within
850 words?), it has been given permanent
status by being preserved in print and
“if, 50 years ago, the Germans found it
impossible to defeat the spread of pidgin
in New Guinea, the problem now facing
Australia is insuperable.”
I’m no linguist, but had Mr. Baker
quoted his samples of pidgin in some
European language —French or German,
say—l should make a better fist at trans-
lating them into everyday English.
True, the lingo is crude enough and
no doubt it could be learned in a fraction
of the time necessary to master a highly
inflected civilised tongue. But greater
revolutions than changing from pidgin
to standard English have been accom-
plished. Kemal Ataturk altered Turkey’s
Arabic script to that of Latin —a less
formidable task, perhaps, than was found
necessary to abolish the fez and yashmak!
Admittedly the change won’t take place
overnight, and we know the puzzy-Wuzzy
lacks the aptitude to acquire new ideas
with the facility of a civilised race. But
we’ve got to make a start. Otherwise
we’ll find pidgin setting up a feeling of
inferiority which is bound to gall those
New Guinea natives who acquire a
mastery of standard English.
Paul Hasluck, commenting on the
matter, is more realistic. He stated that
the Government is working towards a
lesser use of pidgin and its replacement
by literate English, He went on to say
that pidgin had been used for centuries
and its immediate abolition was as silly
as saying that all Europeans should speak
Russian by next week.
We could well make a start with Basic
English, or English based on word-fre-
quency—a method now applied to the
teaching of all modem languages, in-
stead of undiluted doses of grammatical
rules; pundits and stand-patters notwith-
standing.—J. O. (Tas.).
Shakspeare and Othello
If I gave “K.J.W.” (B. 5/8/’53) the
impression that I was propounding a
theory that Othello’s actions in his
domestic crisis were not feasible because
he acted differently from the way certain
other generals might have acted 1 am
sorry. I must have put the argument
very badly. Othello’s reactions were all-
too feasible and all-too commonplace, and
Shakspeare, who understood the world,
showed in his play just how common-
place they were.
Othello killed the thing he loved, as
do many jealous people, but would even
Othello himself have said it was a good
thing to do? Shakspeare, if we are to
believe the evidence of his sonnets, bad
been in a similar situation, but how did
he manipulate it? Very differently.
Othello only thought he was a rejected
lover; Shakspeare knew he was. His
Desdemona gave him up on more than
one occasion, as is clearly stated in the
sonnets, and he must have felt all the
dead, dull, stupid, despairing feelings that
Othello felt—in fact, he says he did
(Sonnets CXXXIII, CXLVIII, etc.).
Othello solaced his hurt feelings with
murder; Shakspeare poured his into his
sonnets, and, moreover (Sonnet LV), he
knew what he was doing, unlike Othello.
The result in his case was magnificent
descriptions of unrequited love which the
whole world admires ; the result in the
case of Othello was what? A corpse
and an inquest, and nobody admires
them.
Now, which would “K.J.W.” say was
the more commonplace reaction —
Shakspeare’s or Othello’s?
“K.J.W.” says “Because lago succeeds
in destroying Othello, the tragedy is an
immortal classic of the theatre.” I would
say that it is immortal for the same reason
that the sonnets are—not because of the
plot, the story or the language, as
“K.J.W.” seems to think, but because
Shakspeare, having had similar experi-
ences to Othello and understood them,
could identify himself with his feelings
and could sympathise with them without
sympathising with the unfortunate way
he expressed them.
If “K.J.W.” thinks that these are weird
interpretations I would like to draw his
attention to the very excellent thing Mr.
Anthony Quayle said at a Melbourne
luncheon—“ The more I read Dante, the
more I feel I understand him but the
" Reckon I'd better take your dorg , too, mister!”
more I read Shakspeare, the more I feel
Shakspeare understands me.” So long
as he has that humble attitude and carries
it into his acting the Bard is pretty safe
in the hands of Mr. Quayle.—F.S. (Vic.).
Marketing Costs
According to Mr. Justice Power (Mel-
bourne “Age,” 11/7/’53), president of
A. C. Nielsen, Ltd., world marketing
authorities, half Australia’s expenditure
on household requirements, including
food, is spent on marketing the goods.
He went on to say this expenditure was
responsible for 44 per cent, of every
pound spent on a motor-car, nearly 50
per cent, of every pound spent on food,
58 per cent, on clothing, 60 per cent, on
furniture and 66 per cent, on drugs and
cosmetics.
He added, “We are tired of paying the
price of subsidising gamblers.”
No doubt the consumer, too, is “tired
of paying the price of subsidising
gamblers.” The great need is for pro-
duction of wanted goods, requiring the
minimum of advertising and “marketing”
effort. Too many industrialists overlook
the old dictum, “Good wine needs no
bush.” —B. (Tas.).
Early Australian Stories
Regarding that “Great History
Mystery” (B. 17/6/’53), here’s another.
Can anyone tell me who was the author
of the six Australian stories published in
“The Englishwoman’s Domestic Maga-
zines,” in 1870? (Beeton’s Books.)
Volume 8, leather-bound and con-
taining six monthly magazines (January-
June, 1870), has three Australian stories.
“Twelve Days on the Road” is an account
of the unknown author and his* wife’s
journey from Mackay’s Border Hotel, in
a “pretty little Australian village of
Wodonga,” to Melbourne by horse-drawn
wagon—the fare one guinea.
“Died From Exhaustion, a Tale of
Melbourne Life in 1868,” is the inside-
story of the unknown man found dead
in the fields by the Yarra, above Princes
Bridge (Melbourne “Argus,” 23/4/’6B).
He was an immigrant unable to find
security in a raw colony.
“Love Up a Gum-tree” begins by
saying “N.S.W. is a colony peculiarly
liable to floods” and that the “Weekly
Dispatch” in a recent article on immi-
gration to N.S.W. is more full of errors
than truism. “In the year 1851, I, being
one of the Australian Mounted Police,
was quartered at Windsor, hunting for
illicit stills, etc.” Here the editors felt
compelled to reassure their gentle readers
and stated “The Australian Mounted
Police numbered as many gentlemen of
good birth and education in their ranks
as any crack English cavalry regiment
does amongst its officers.”
Volume 9, leather-bound, contains
three Australian stories. “A Night of
Horrors” also has for hero an officer of
Australian Mounted Police in company
with a foot-constable named Andrew
Johnston. Mary O’Connell, of a grog
shanty, proved amorous, but false.
“Die Black Fellow! Rise White
Fellow!” is the story of a cadet in the
Queensland Mounted Police and the
aborigines. ,
“Over the Snowy Mountains in Two
Days” tells how the author started from
the little township of Monaroo in Feb.,
1865, with his old friend Tom Wilton,
whose station was in these parts.
All these stories were written by a
person who, in his own words, “had
travelled through the interior of Aus-
tralia in all directions.”
Who was it?— Erica Glenn (Q.).
Towards an Australian Edward
Thomas
The “Red Page” review of Ernest G.
Moll’s “The Lifted Spear” (B. 22/7/’53)
states that the verse is an excellent ex-
ample of how Moll has been able to
adapt to the Australian scene “that
quietly humorous tone of voice and
plainness of speech he has picked up
from such American writers as Robert
Frost and Edward Arlington Robinson.”
Actually, that “quietly humorous tone
of voice and plainness of speech” had
its origin in the aims and ideals of the
English poet Edward Thomas as much
as with Robert Frost.
Frost was an unknown American
poet who had failed to make a name in
his own country and had come to live
in England. There he published his first
book, A Boy’s Will, and Thomas re-
viewed it enthusiastically in the “New
Weekly.” Thomas met Frost in 1913
and the two poets of similar ideals
recognised and, as it were, saluted one
another.
It was Frost’s theory that “a man will
not easily write better than he spea.ks
when some matter has touched him
deeply.” He believed that poetry should
reproduce the tones and rhythms of
actual speech; and that you should be
able to hear the poet’s own voice when
you read his verses. Such a theory was
bound to provoke the jog-trot rhymesters,
“the Noyses among bards and critics,”
as Thomas put it.
Although today the name of the
American poet Robert Frost is well
enough known, Thomas remains a poet
known and appreciated by a discerning
few. Thomas’s very quietness, his
“understatement,” his natural speech
rhythm and diction are against him be-
coming popular. Yet Walter de la Mare,
in a preface to Thomas’s poems, says of
his work: “When, indeed, Edward
Thomas was killed in Flanders, a mirror
of England was shattered of so pure and
true a crystal that a clearer and tenderer
reflection of it can be found no other
where than in these poems; neither in
Clare and Cobbett, Morland and Crome,
nor among the living, in Hardy, Hudson,
Doughty, It must be read slowly, as
naturally as if it were talk, it will then
surrender itself. This is not a poetry
that will drug or intoxicate, civicise or
edify—in the usual meaning of the word,
though it rebuilds reality. It ennobles
by simplification.”
We in Australia, aware of the tradi-
tion and accomplishment of the English
language, have been faced with the
problem of making ‘ it express such a
distinct way of life and “spirit of place”
as this country possesses. Of recent
years, an “aggressively nationalistic”
school of poetry has produced, among
genuine poetry, much self-conscious
verse that has tried desperately to be
“Australian.” Drawing from the sources
where language is being continually
created: the, common speech, rhythm and
imagery of the day, we are creating what
is almost a new language, a language
whose English parent was mated with
this continent.
It is to be hoped that, out of the birth-
pangs of this struggle for an Australian
literature, we are producing, or will pro-
duce, among other voices, an Australian
Edward Thomas.-
(N.S.W.).
R OLAND E. ROBINSON
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 239
Across
I —This is touching, in the manner
of a sprinter to a tape, to bring
about the Orient. (9)
6—Firm place for a drink in town.
(5)
9—lnvested in a bed for Capone. (5)
10 — I came back with a boy quite
withered and shrunken. (9)
11 — -Who minds the money locker as
a precaution. (9)
12— Journey mentioned on an ancient
Chaldean roadsign? (4)
14—Valuer in a Hebridean inlet. (6)
16—Chips are otherwise angelic. (8)
18—Money for ocelot furs in cat-
shops. (4-4)
20—A South American port telephone
with one ring. (6)
22 — The French thirst thus with a
Kipling work. (4)
23 — Mouse-like self-expression of a
fellow with great expectations
who is a contemptible fellow? (9)
25 — Negro idol confuses a boatman.
(9)
26 — Aid or Ida might be so defined
in the country. (5)
28— Pasha of “II Seraglio” described
by 29 across. (5)
29 Standish footballer is far astern.
(5, 4)
POWN
1— Money faculty provides armor for
the upper arms. (9)
2 Recede. (3)
3 An oblique look for instance is
between two boys with legs and
ice. (4-6)
4 One who cometh came in another
way. (6)
5 Nobleman angered when con-
fused. (7)
6 Firm conditional upon it with
head covering. (4)
7 Wager nonsense against Henry in
this engagement. (9)
8 — Additional clause jockey. (5)
13 —Chum up with one, and the
Dionnes and oriental litters. (10)
15 —Feeling-ful volume upset a scene
of early Celtic Christianity over
fifty. (9)
17 —Koorc personality with a hunch.
(9)
19 —What placates Cerberus over his
thousand is a specious fallacy.
(7)
21 — April’s helix. (6)
22 — Wise fellows have a long time
in the steamer. (5)
24 —Time of prosperity in a harbor
bar and the sound of the bittern
pole for a sail. (4)
27—island oil Crete is sending up
assistance. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 238


t* \ J
8k
best of two worlds
goes to make
strong Australian
,
■ .%
■
Ml
Long-fibred softwood pulp
from overseas pine, and
short - fibred hardwood
pulp from Australia’s
Eucalypts, combine their
best qualities in Aus-
tralian-made brown paper.
m
t-mssm
' h
/Si: a- > .
■
V ...
- ii-.
■
iiifi
iff
*ll
•• v ■
■
Mim
■;
is m
■ A ~ r " ■
Long and short fibred pulps, blended
in scientifically controlled propor-
tions during manufacture, results in
a high quality, strong and durable
brown Kraft Paper.
Be proud that the paper you
parcels were wrapped in today is
Australian-made
. . . and not only the paper! The cartons containing your favourite breakfast cereal*
washing powder, toothpaste and digestive tablets . . , the thousand-and-one
commodities now contained in strong hygienic cartons . . . account for ton-upon-ton
of Australian-made cardboard.
m
SMI
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LIMITED
Aikman Street, South Melbourne. McCauley Street, Matraviile, N.S.W.
Makers of Raw Material for the Wrapping and Packaging Trade
