

FOR PORT WINE OF , BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
ROSE LINDSAY: CELEBRITIES IN THE SKYSCRAPERS
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3820
Wednesday, April 29, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
WESTMINSTER ABBEY —THE CORONATION CHURCH
IN spite of the innumerable changes which have taken place during nine and
a half centuries Westminster Abbey has remained the heart of the British
nation, and each year it is visited by thousands of people who come from
every quarter of the globe. Its official title is the Collegiate Church of St.
Peter in Westminster. §
The first Coronation to take place within this historic building was that
of the Norman invader William the Conqueror in 1066. On Christmas Day
of that year the Abbey, its walls fresh and white from the masons’ hands,
was crowded to overflowing with a mixed multitude —the defeated and sullen
Saxon inhabitants and the victors, who were guarded by the Norman soldiery
outside the doors. During the ceremony, which was carried on in French
and English, some of the guards set fire to adjoining buildings, which created
panic amongst the congregation in the Abbey, many of whom were trampled
underfoot in the rush for the doors.
The Conqueror, however, stood his ground, and was left surrounded by
a group of prelates, and after Ealdred, Archbishop of York, had exacted the
oath of obedience to the laws and customs of the people of England, the
Crown was placed upon the head of the new Sovereign and the Coronation
was hurried to its conclusion.
Four years later Lanfranc became Primate, and he persuaded William
that the privilege of crowning future Sovereigns should rest with the official
head of,,the near-by Province of Canterbury rather than with the Archbishop
of York, who might find himself tempted to bestow the crown on some
rebel Scot or Dane.


iiliki
Write now lor Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Cf/T HERB AND
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(S.B. 153) Age
The Red Page
ROBIN HYDE
Twenty years ago when Cecil Mann
was printing her poems in The Bulletin
Robin Hyde would have been as wel
known in Australia as any other poet o
that period. Today one rarely hears he
name mentioned; and yet her poetry
its best, if fragmentary and incomplete
was of the highest quality both in visio
and technique. The chance to discove
or rediscover her is in Houses by the Sea
a book selected by Gloria Rawlinsor
from 300 unpublished pieces, includin
her latest and best, and finely printer
by the Caxton Press with the aid of th
N.Z. Literary Fund.
I met Robin Hyde just once, in som
hotel-lounge in Auckland, and for som
curious reason, perhaps because sh
struck me as queer and difficult, I. can
not remember anything of her feature
other than the turn and flash of her eyes
a slight, dark, crooked figure, limping
off into the sunshine after our talk anc
disappearing among the Queen-stree
traffic.
She had written generously in the
N.Z. “Observer” about my first smal
book of poems and it was on tha
account we met. She spoke warmly again
abput the book, then rounded upon me
with a sidelong, piercing look and said
“I hope you like my poetry, too?” ;
challenge which, since I had at that time
read only some of her early romantic
verses, Swinburne filtered through Yeats
I found mildly disconcerting.
We began talking about Roy Camp-
bell, whose colorful, two-fisted poetry
then seemed to be storming the citade
of England on behalf of ail overseas
writers, and when I said something about
his bullfighting—or it may have been his
one-man intervention in the Spanish civi
war on the side of Franco —Robin Hyde
said, “Oh, Roy Campbell only likes
blood because of its color.” Then, when
1 laughed, “Oh, I’m brilliant, you know,”
she said, with one of her queer looks
and in a tone of lacerating irony. She
told me she could not sleep at night
for the quacking of the ducks outside
her shack and, with that, vanished.
Here is the complete portrait from
Gloria Rawlinson, who was her close
friend for many years:
Sometimes her fine, heavily-lashed blue
eyes were down and done for, sometimes
they had a large ghostly shine. Yet she
could be a gay and witty companion....
She wept quietly and terribly at the slightest
provocation- Her character was knit from
strange old fragments: fear of darkness
(she always slept with a light burning);
extreme sensitivity to harsh or loud noises,
only softest music pleased her; love for
churches, mountains, moonstones and opals,
old legends, ballads and words; a prodi-
gious memory—she knew by heart and
could recite many plays of Shakspeare,
Milton’s “Paradise Lost,” long passages
from Chaucer and Spenser and carried in
her head a huge anthology of world poetry;
all interwoven with politics, religion, senti-
ment, and fiery obstinate pride.
Her real name was Iris Wilkinson.
Her family background was a sort of
map of the British Empire; her father
born at Agra, her mother an Australian
who had seven red-headed brothers in
Victoria “known collectively as the
Mallee Giants because of what they did
to their scrub farms in early youth.”
Robin Hyde herself was bom in Cape-
town and was brought to New Zealand
in her infancy.
In 1938, at the age of 32, she set out
for England,, where all New Zealand
writers felt they had to go to find pub-
lishers and readers, but strayed fantastic-
ally from her track to inspect the Sino-
Japanese war. She got up to the front
line, caught some horrible fever called
“sprue,” had her eye badly pierced by
a thorn and her face slapped after the
fall of Hsuchowfu by a Japanese soldier
(inflaming the sore eye), wrote some
lovely poetry—
Boys fish, willows watch their tresses burn
green in glass:
The people are deft in making bamboo huts.
Old men, thin-fleshed as golden shells
dream on.
Almost the dragon’s blood, red-veined in
stone,
Stirs from the torpor of the centuries—
then made her way, sick, penniless and
desperate, to England, where, though she
had friends to help her and a prose book
on the brink of acceptance, she com-
mitted suicide.
I don’t know why, in her beautifully
lucid and sympathetic introduction,
Gloria Rawlinson should have glossed-
over the fact that Robin Hyde took her
own life, as well as avoiding more than
a brief reference to some earlier “troubled
waters, the depths of which cannot be
sounded in this outline of her literary
life.” The Jives of artists —rightly, I
think ; because the life so often provides
an illuminating commentary on the work
* re P ubli ? property after their deaths;
an k • su^c^e was > in a way, though
S jj- 18 b y no means always the case, an
additional proof of the strength and
depth of her talent. Here was a tempera-
ment too highly-strung for life:
Bear the message from the rooftops, from
me died H’gome houses
Where the storks splash out in shallow
yellow clay.
Tell them Ali’s sister listens to the lessen-
mg of the rein-bells,
To the jar of scattered pebbles far away,
oay she sings, and stoops anew to touch
her loom
Where the thread is woven scarlet as his
quests—
“ Brother, beauty wearies the beautiful!
.Next time, let me be born with no breasts.”
That Robin Hyde did achieve the
highest quality in her poetry this book
makes abundantly clear. Her early
romantic verses were smooth, mellifluous,
rather facile, a quest for some ideal land
that probably represented, as so often
is the case, merely a quest for poetry.
But even in those days she always wrote
well, often captivatingly (I Remember a
delightful poem from The Bulletin,
not in this collection, about a hedgehog ;
a creature rarely celebrated in verse);
and round about 1936 and ’37, when she
was thirty, just a year or two before her
death, she seems suddenly to have found
herself.
The change in the poetry, though pre-
viously foreshadowed, is remarkable.
The facile romanticism disappears; the
smooth technique takes on the more vital
rhymes and rhythms of a style super-
ficially rougher, fundamentally more
deeply harmonious. She discovers the
New Zealand earth and inteiprets it with
a sympathetic intensity nowhere excelled,
if indeed it is equalled, by any other
New Zealand poet. Her whole talent,
her whole poetic being, deepens and
begins to burn:
I knew a green place where the light looked
more like trees,
Trees more like diffused and stilly light.
(Green, green be upon your eyes; red in
my heart,
The world’s troubled color; for I must
awaken.)
Once in the rose parterres, my mother stood
still and said:
“Man, woman and child; man, woman and
child.”
She was born with a restive heart, but
grew old.
To a large extent it was Robin Hyde’s
sudden discovery of the simple fact that
she was a New Zealander and should
write about her native earth that caused
this late and finest flowering of her talent.
“As to poetry,” she wrote to Gloria
Rawlinson from Dunedin in 1936, “right
now I want to change from one vein to
another —it’s just dawned on me that I’m
a New Zealander and surely the legends
of the mountains, rivers and people that
we see about us should mean more to us
than the legends of any country on earth.”
It was in this mood that she wrote
the poems by which she is most likely
to live in New Zealand anthologies,
“Native Grass,” “Isabel’s Baby” (a frag-
ment from a long poem, not yet pub-
lished), “The Last Ones” and her tribute
to Katherine Mansfield; also the frag-
ments of New Zealand landscape called
up and sharpened by exile in China; and
also the lovely autobiographical sequence,
“Houses by the Sea,” which she com-
pleted on her final travels and which is
the finest single achievement in the
present collection. Out of the total of
its fragments “Houses by the Sea” builds
a clear, compact and profoundly sensitive
picture of her mother, her father and
her childhood ; interesting anywhere for
its poetry and its humanity and of special
significance for her own country because
it is a distillation of the essence of a
New Zealand life;
And through the pines, one house. Ellen
would say
“It’s haunted!” But we laughed
Empty I knew it, but the low fires lighted,
Snow in coarse gig-ruts mounting up
beside:
The curtains drawn for what obscure be-
nighted
Wanderer who’d not quite lived and not
quite died;
Who was at home here. Sometimes, up the
stairs,
Ticking loud my small heart climbed. The
great dim bed
Held shadow. “Who dares?” “The child,
the stranger dares.”
Hush; the cold sigh. Shaking, I fled.
But it was not, ultimately, merely
nationalism, merely the discovery of
New Zealand, which awoke her talent to
full force. That was only a part, an
inevitable part, of discovering herself;
of learning that poetry, as she put it in
another of her letters to Gloria Rawlin-
son, is “the distillation of one’s inward
and secret self.” Some of her best poems
were those she wrote on her tragic pil-
grimage to China.
In fact, if I were selecting her best
single poem, for a world if not a New
Zealand anthology, I would chose “Ku
Li,” the poem about the Chinese coolie
fighting the Japanese which says by im-
plication so much about the common
soldier, and the common man, every-
where. And there are two of her very
latest poems, not set in New Zealand
and perhaps written in England, or on
the voyage from China, “Case
Adjourned” and “The Verb,” which
also could take their place in any con-
temporary company in the world. “Case
Adjourned” is about man on trial be-
fore God. / Exactly what Robin Hyde
meant by “The Verb” I can’t quite work
out but in parts at least the meaning is
perceptible, and as a whole it is so odd,
so lively, so brilliantly-written, so haunt-
ingly mysterious a piece of verse that I
confess I prefer to be puzzled by it rather
than search too earnestly for the prosaic
meaning. To quote a few of its stanzas:
Hooded, magnificently snake,
the Verb made rigid hissed their fate:
said he was God: divided and ruled
pronoun and noun by predicate
witnessed the pronouns beating up noun;
saw the inhuman noun alone
like a guerilla smile waiting, then snipe
the impotent invaders down.
Here a train rusts, that shall not pass
to furious destinations: grass
climbs through a man, and stares around,
with none to call them 1 and grass....
There is a particular kind of feminine
genius, born of intense and intolerable
sensitivity, nearly always fatal to those
possessed by it, such as we have seen in
many women writers from Emily Bronte
to Katherine Mansfield and Virginia
Woolf, and this is what I think Robin
Hyde displayed in the sudden incan-
descence of these later poems. It flashes,
too, in her prose ; not in her novel Check
to Your King which 1 think Gloria Raw-
linson greatly overpraises, but in the
letters quoted in the introduction to
Houses by the Sea. So far as this book
shows, she achieved no major statement;
but what she did achieve, taking her at
her finest, was poetry which would be
notable in any country at any time.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Italy and Oxford
In Apulian Summer and Other Epi-
sodes (Heinemann), a kind of travelogue
in belles-lettres, Michael Lloyd indulges
in the favorite pastime of the literary
beginner, the throwing of adjectives at
nouns in the hope they will stick:
Through one of these [lanes] I now
stepped into a blue stream of moonlight,
where lopsided balconies clustered over the
narrow like a gaggle of bats in the rafters.
Pointed archways of doors showered in a
volley of arrows through the air, rained
down white walls thick and fast as crotchets
over a page of music. Some were sunk:
deep in the earth below the level of the
lane. From others, high over the frosted
air, dangled concertina steps, pleated like
Chinese lanterns. Zigzag houses imposed
elusive rhythms on the night, the irritable
friction of jagged roofs tense against the
spasmodic dromedary undulation of domes.
This is from the first essay, “Winter
Night: Bitonto,” where he had arrived
as an Intelligence Officer, in his early
twenties, with the British forces invading
Italy in the recent war. And, indeed, his
constant rain, his pom-pom attack of
words does conquer the Italian scene,
presenting not only its appearance but its
feeling and atmosphere ; swimming, and
the light on women’s dresses at noon;
boating and boatmen in the evening; a
touring opera-company ; the buildings, at
once of insubstantial lathe-and-paster and
as old as time;
Nothing dies or is born here: generation
and corruption are its cycles. Quickened
by the sun to ferment and work like yeast,
mere matter breeds itself out of its own
seething bowels. Cities have bred here for
millennia. The earth you tread on is the
rotting compost of men, walls, animals and
vegetation, decomposed and used again
The place is vicious. No one goes to
Apulia. It is a different country, outside
Europe. Everyone has his reason: the
stabbing, the bandits, the stench and the
squalor... .Death is the most disgusting
revelation of its fecundity. Once by a track
■ 1 saw three dead men, shot in their prime
by some act of banditry and stripped naked.
The heavy bodies lay growing into the soil
like fruit that has grown over-ripe and
fallen from the tree.
After these Italiam studies he trains his
adjectives upon Oxrord, where he went
to study after the war; but even his
portrait of a girl in a straw hat, pure,
athletic and unsophisticated, “the most
beautiful girl I have ever seen,”
has not the gusto of his appreciation of
Italian grime and corruption, the street-
urchins buying fish and eating them raw,
the mother wailing for her boy killed in
a train accident:
It occurred before the cathedral. She
went rigid, clasping her hands against one
cheek and swaying stiffly from side to side,
outwardly set rocking in a pendulum of
high-pitched screaming hysteria.... I had
an uneasy sensation that, all the time,
behind the whitened eyes locked upwards
in rigor was a hard, self-possessed gaze
unblinkingly watching me I had the
curious sensation that it was all a joke,
that they were all in league to make fun
of me. The miming of clasped hands and
upturned eyes continued; but it was
obviously a mask.... Suddenly I thought
the whole crowd were nudging each other,
all of them surreptitiously eyeing me, with
satisfaction in my evident bewilderment
The faces distorted in extravagant woe were
like grotesque theatre-masks.
In a flash the hallucination passed, and
there they were in the square, the woman
screaming because of her son, the whole
crowd moved and wringing their hands in
pity for her.
Perhaps this is enough to suggest that
Mr. Lloyd is not just another James A.
Fitzpatrick. In fact, says the back-flap,
he is quite a scholar; in 1951, became
lecturer in English at Staffordshire Uni-
versity ; is an authority on Victorian
travellers in Italy; was Luca Ruffini
Memorial Scholar in Italy in 1950 and
in 1952 was speaker at the International
Conference of Historians on Anglo-
Tuscan relationships during the Risorgi-
mento, which is something not everyone
would care to speak about.
Anza c Day in Korea
If ever a book was opened with antici-
pation, it was Sergeant Robert Holles’s
Now Thrive the Armourers (Harrap),
That stand of the Gloucesters in Korea
on Anzac Day in 1951 thrilled the world.
Here was the story, written by one of the
Gloucesters themselves.
After reading through sixteen of the
book’s nineteen chapters, without coming
to the story of The Stand, one con-
soles oneself with the thought that, as
those sixteen chapters (dealing mainly
with military build-up, leave in Tokyo,
a few skirmishes and so on) have been
written well enough, with a good eye for
observation and humor, there will be
some climax to stir the blood in the final
chapters. But here the story fades out.
Particularly disappointing is Holles’s
description of that dreadful scene when,
ragged, bloody and weary, the few re-
maining Gloucesters, crawling like
trapped rats between the flanking sides
of a valley swarming with Chinese,
finally struggled to the outlet, to be cut
down in tragic error by the guns of an
advancing American tank-squadron. An
American magazine presented this action
brilliantly in a long article which was
still only a brief report on it; Holies,
who could have expanded it to very much
greater length, dismisses it in less than
half a page.
"You're Wrong, Delaney"
I’m most grateful for the notice N.K.
accorded my You’re Wrong, Delaney
(B. 15/4/’53), particularly since the novel
can hardly be regarded as a contribution
to literature. I accept the stricture con-
cerning the idiom and the slang, but it is
only fair to Collins, of London, who
will publish the book in the U.K. and
Australia, to say that N.K. has read the
edition published by Crown, of New
York. In that edition the U.S. publisher
evidently attempted to translate the
language into American idiom, but gave
it up about halfway through the story.
This, I may say, baffled American re-
viewers, who were divided in their be-
lief that it was Australian, American or
Canadian,
Our criminal slang, as N.K. says, may
be “said to be as rich as any in the
world, 2 ’ but when a leading American
literary agent is puzzled by the term “in
smoke,” as mine was, it seems clear that
for overseas readers—or should I say
publishers—one must be careful with
it. The Collins edition will not reach
Australia until August or September.
BANT SINGER.
Too Soon to Die: Henry Wade (Con-
stable). The author is the best authority
on police-methods of all British detective-
fiction writers, but this is not always a
help. For instance, in this story of a
son who had his uncle impersonate his
dead father until the expiration of the
period necessary to cheat the taxation
authorities of death-duties on his father’s
estate, and who then murdered his uncle
to make a neat job without loose ends,
the taxpayer-reader finds it hard to
admire the brilliant blood-hounding of
police and officials. Is nothing sacred?


r :
K* ' ' - ' i
pg
m.
*'1
J- >%
BfciS
'V'' #
.
..
; , :' J '
l f
..
I
■
fill
wiSf-iW: >;■ ,ws
MM¥5:MM
’
mssmmmm
, »s$ Jfc -5A !
- ■*$& ,
Q
? r±
WMBWia
: m -S
*9*
■
MS
x 5 '
MI
xw : : : :
■i
:•&
:,;:f#r.:ii
H J ]
M - /
*
i&ivv i : $8j§
S\
mm
•';■:•• •'••
:..vi:
> .s
M _
Slisiiii
siSll
MS
I
|
iOiiiliili
1
SO*
i
■
m
iiiiil
.# ?-•
iSH;
.
(
ojfi
m
m
m
■mm
mm*
# M?
lit
mmm
II
PS
y >
t
A
im
: ■
SWIM,*:
'■ :-:-y •: -I’ -
mMmm
1
•. ; .wot
W<<<
bH
: -
-S'. j
Mi
Si::-:!: •
m
, l Ki
M
W
M.
ilill
l
.
•ii
PIf
jjfplj
'ifr
*£
S . :I:
1 " ■
?• ■
-
Nobody outfits a bowler
better than we do!
Nobody outfits a bowler better than we do! No, because no one else has the “Jack High” Bowling Jacket together
with all our other wonderful bowling accessories. Our two friends above are wearing “Jack High”
jackets. Casben tailored them exclusively for us in cream superlaine. Chest sizes, 36-44 m. £5/19/6
M
....
mm.
m
■yy.yy.<
m
Also available, Ladies’ White
Windproof Bowls Jackets.
Waist Length . 73/6
Hip Length 117/-
Cardigan for Bowling. Finely knitted
pure wool. Firm fitting basque and
cuffs. SW. W and OS. White. 74/3.
Bowls Hat with the stitched brim and
crown, ventilator holes women bowlers
like so much. 22, 22i. Price 37/6.
Box lA extra.
Bowling Jacket, in soft white wool,
trim hipdength, snug'fitting action free
cuffs. Pearl buttons. W, OS, and
EOS fittings, priced at only 62/6.
Bowling Dress is in spruce looking
white rayon. Tailored by Sally
Forth”, it’s completely washable, de*
signed to give maximum in comfort.
SSW, SW, W, SOS, OS fittings.
SSW, SW, W, SOS, OS. £4/19/6.
Bowls Shoes are White Buck with a
spongy red rubber sole. Easy-to-fit
fractionals. Priced at only 95/-.
All Women’s Bowling Clothing
and Shoes on our Second Floor.
Henselite and Dunlop . . .
the best bowls you can use!
Henselite are £B/10/' set.
Dunlop Bowls £B/9/3 set.
Sports Goods. Lower Pitt St.
Strong Fibre Case to hold
your bowls. Capped corners,
enclosure for each bowl. Felt
lined. Size 12 x 12, 70/-.
Sports Goods, Lower Ground
Floor.
m
,adies’ > White Stockings for
iowling. Fully fashioned
ure silk and rayon blend,
’restige “455” (Gold
Circle). Reinforced toes and
eels. All sizes l3/9.
Hosiery, Pitt St. Floor.
owling Shoes for Men.
fhite Nußuck on a good'
ting last. Red rubber
edge soles to cushion your
et in comfort. Full and
ilf sizes. Priced at 72/6.
George Street Floor.
Case to bold four
and your shoes. Of
fibre with capped
s, enclosure for each
Pelt lined. 12in. x
size priced at £5/15/-.
s Goods Lower George
Street.
A TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
nthony Horderns
,
.
’PHONE ALL YOUR ORDERS TO M 2401. MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G. P. 0., SYDNEY


Produce Passports, Please!
WRITERS’- LECTURERS’
AMERICA
By GAVIN CASEY
WHETHER the gleam in the eye
of Australian writers is one of
avarice or hunger is a moot
point, but one sure thing is that
it always grows brighter when anybody
mentions dollar markets. And a dizzy
feeling usually results from Australian
wfma > a i ° n ° f r? e , fees a “ d
$50,000 incomes often thought to be
enjoyed by anyone who slaps typewriter-
ribbon to paper in the United States.
Even more tragic is the feverish glare
of unhallowed greed which illuminates
the features of retired schoolteachers and
various other Australians of wide general
knowledge when they think or talk about
the rewards of lecturing in America.
With few exceptions they seem to think
that if they could only get there, complete
with rapier wit, suave and fascinating
platform presence, and grasp of all the
affairs of the day, their fortunes would
be made.
T o deal with the talkers first, the fact
is that if they got there with no way of
earning a living except by the tongue they
would perhaps starve, perhaps have
nervous breakdowns, and perhaps take
a quick, terrified look and catch an early
boat home. Professional lecturing is one
of the most arduous and least stable
ways of surviving in an indifferent world
that has ever been devised,
Leaving out Winston Churchill, send-
; mental English novelists whose works
s are best-sellers in Uncle Sam’s country
; can, any time they like, demand big fees,
* and a few years ago an agency even
. offered the late Ben Chifley some pretty
juicy ones, which he rejected without any
apparent regret in favor of continuing as
: Prime Minister of Australia. But for
the unknown or the little known, how-
, ever inspired the message with which
, they intend to hypnotise audiences, the
battle into the upper-income brackets in
lecturing is about twice as tough as it is
i in any other line except soldiering. »
While I was looking after Common-
wealth news and information in New
York, for * instance, the Government
sponsored visits by two very good
lecturers, with good subjects, Charles
Mountford, the anthropologist, and T. C.
Roughley, the fish and marine-life expert,
both with excellent films to go with the
talks. Each was successful, as regards
prestige and publicity, though not in cash,
during his first season.
Roughley came to the end of the quick-
meal, fast-train, sore-throat round quite
ill, and didn’t return for more. Mount-
ford, in his second season, did quite well
financially as well as in the satisfactions
of the soul, but it certainly would have
taken him longer without the Australian
Government help he had —and deserved.
If the would-be lecturer has the money
to eat (or can do without' eating) for,
say, three years, he may then get good
fees, though they will be somewhat below
the Churchill level. But he has to pay
his agent anything from 25 per cent,
to 60 per cent, of the takings, depending
on how much the agent does for him, and
he has to earn enough during the six
winter months to last through the lecture-
dead summer.
If he has an eye to the future he will,
though, be very busy and involved in
much expense during each summer, for
that will be the only time when he can
go to new places and ’collect the new
material that the business will demand
of him in about another three years, when
he has worked out all the lecture circuits
with the talks with which he started.
Road-mending, coalmining and even
writing are better ways to feed one’s
young than lecturing in the United
States, and the literary vista there is
brighter, but often distorted by distance.
Determined, intelligent, energetic Aus-
tralian writers have succeeded and are
succeeding in the American market with
books and short stories. But they, too,
are in a crowded market, in which the
good things are achieved by perspiration
rather than inspiration, and they come up
against many peculiar prejudices and
ideas.
Not long after the good old firm of
Charles Scribner’s Sons had accepted for
publication Jon Cleary’s You Can’t See
Round Corners, I had lunch with Whit-
ney Darrow, head of the outfit.
“It’s a good novel,” Darrow com-
plained. “We like it, or we wouldn’t use
it. But it isn’t distinctively Australian
somehow. I mean, it could have hap-
pened in Chicago, or Philadelphia, or
anywhere.”
Said I; “Of course it could have hap-
pened anywhere where there are human
beings. How ‘distinctive’ do you want
Australians to be? Would you like us to
have tails, like bloody kangaroos?”
Darrow, a man who never has to have
a map drawn before he can see a point,
grinned at his soup.
“Yes,” he said. “That’d be nice, if
you could fix it.”
But side-by-side with the American
publisher’s wish that the Australians about
whom Australian writers write could be
a little more exotic, unusual and sort of
super-Texan is an unholy fear of the
racily nationally characteristic in dialogue.
Aching for some more dollars myself, I
tried fairly strenuously to get some of
my own books out in American editions,
and though perhaps they were being
gentle with me the language did seem
to be the main trouble.
“See here, son,” another publisher told
me. “You say their context makes the
meaning of the unfamiliar words clear,
and so it does, to you and me* But the
folks who buy enough novels to make
them popular aren’t us—they’re the
fiction-readers who don’t want to stop
and think, even for a split-second, even
about what a single word means.”
This seemed to me to be the point of
view the British reader once had with
regard to American writers, and has had
to alter long since. But he was the man
who had to sell the books, and it was
an argument I couldn’t win. Later, I had
two genuine offers to “translate” my
works into good, plain, down-to-earth
American, but my dollar-hunger wasn’t
that bad.
I did sell a few short stories, and
could have sold more had I been able to
find time to write them, but the sales
would not very likely have been to those
slick-paper magazines, with sales running
into millions an issue, which are the only
ones with which we are much acquainted
in Australia. Below the top dozen, there
is a steep drop in magazine sales, and
in the amounts editors can pay, in the
United States; so much so that “Red
Book,” the first to buy a piece of fiction
of mine, explained that it was only a
“poor relation” of the multi-million-
selling “Blue Book,” and apologised pro-
fusely for only offering $175!
The trouble with trying to sell to
America from Australia is that results
are so long in coming. Most U.S. maga-
zines like a couple of months to consider
a manuscript, and in these terms three
submissions before acceptance—and a
yarn can find excellent placement after
many more tries than that —mean six
months, without counting time in the
hands of an agent and in the Australia-
U.S. mail.
Though Arthur Upfield and one or two
others seem to find the long-distance
negotiations satisfactory, the system
doesn’t often work out well, even for
writers thoroughly established and most
successful in the popular fiction field,
like Australians Max Murray and Maysie
Grieg. That couple came back home to
stay for ever, after many years abroad.
They liked just about everything they
saw, bought a house, and settled down
comfortably to write for dollars and
pounds sterling without too much of the
clash of the actual coins ringing in their
ears. But when he was leaving again, a
year or so later, Murray said, regret-
fully;
“It’s no good, you’ve got to be on
the spot. Well be back home again
some day, but it’s going to take us a
couple of years, perhaps, to tighten up
all the contacts and shake up all the
people who need shaking up, in Europe
and the United States.”
In America, of course, one must have
an agent, and unlike lecture agents the
literary ones charge a flat 10 per cent, and
no extras. One thing that goes for all
the literary agents is that they are
little interested in even works of genius
which come forward at the rate of a story
every six months or so. Their slender
cut of the takings means that they must
have steady and reasonably prolific pro-
ducers of marketable material. The other
sort, however rare their spasmodic talent,
are just not worth the cost of postage to
the agent.
My advice on all these matters must
go with the warning, “Don’t do as I do,
do as I tell you,” because I cannot by
any stretch of imagination rate myself
a success in my occasional assaults on
the American literary market, and as a
lecturer in the country I did things the
easy and pleasant way, financed by my
own Government to talk without fee
before scholastic bodies and groups note-
worthy for internationalist tendencies and
kind hearts rather than big bank accounts.
But nonetheless I at least looked at
the situation quite closely for quite a
long time, and it is pretty much as I’ve
explained. Good, sound literary
material, fiction or fact, is saleable for
dollars, but the pursuit of the greenbacks
is likely to be a long one. Anybody com-
petent who lays siege to the market will
‘have spasmodic successes that may raise
his hopes too high. Real success is un-
likely until he has proved himself to
editors and publishers and to his agent,
to be a diligent producer as well as a
good writer, who can be relied upon for
a steady flow of usable stuff. If he
reaches that stage much of his output
which is inferior to early rejections will
be accepted. But in that matter the
American market is not much different
from most others.
Ticking Trouble
Admittedly the old mattress
had given yeoman service, for
Agapanthus and I had had it
for the 27 years of our married
life. So I could hardly cavil when
she pronounced it time we replaced
it with an inner-spring aristo.
The veteran had become as soft
as a January jelly left out to set on an
iron roof at Marble Bar. Indeed, it
had long reached that stage where,
waking of a morning, I would be
uncertain whether my helpmeet had
already arisen until I had peered over
the top of the high centre ridge which
our subsidence during the night on
our respective sides of the bed had
created.
The new inner-spring installed, the
question of the disposal of the old
one arose. I immediately suggested
we push it under the bed temporarily,
pending the time when We might with
calm deliberation discuss its destiny.
“I know your temporary arrange-
ments,” was Agapanthus’s comment.
“Remember when you put the old
curtain-rods temporarily behind the
laundry-door until you could find a
space in the garage for them, and
they were there for eighteen months
until I threw them out in the back-
yard? And the permanently tem-
porary place you found for the old
Holland blinds behind your low-
boy until I found them when I
shifted it to do the spring-cleaning?
And the”
“Well,” I cut in hurriedly, “do you
know of anyone we could give the
thing to?”
She looked thoughtful for a
minute. “Aunt Emma was complain-
ing the last time I was over there
about her mattress being thin. She
could put ours on top of her own.”
“That’s the old battleaxe,” I re-
joined, “who gave us the toast-rack
as a wedding-present, borrowed it a
month afterwards and three years
later gave it to Barry and Joan for
their wedding. She can snooze on
a bed of barbed-wire so far as I’m
concerned. No—l’d rather keep it
and make use of it somehow.”
“Well, you can,” flashed back
Agapanthus. “You know how thin ‘
our pillows are. The kapok must
have all powdered. You’re always
saying how uncomfortable they are,
having to double them over. You can
fill them from the old mattress. It
isn’t a long job.”
Like a goat I’d talked myself into
the trap!
On the Saturday morning I
dragged the mattress on to the lounge-
room carpet and was just about to slit
it open when Agapanthus came in.
« ,“ No ’ y° u don’t!” she exclaimed.
“I’d be a week trying to get rid of
all the fine dust and fluff that would
settle in every room. Take it out on
the back lawn and do it.”
“And muck up the lawn? Be-
sides, the mower would get choked
with kapok.”
“It needn’t,” she replied sweetly.
“You could leave the kapok tem-
porarily on the lawn until the next
cyclone came.”
It was a stifling, windless morn-
ing. I selected a position on the
lawn which would be sheltered
should a light nor’-easter blow up
later.
At the fourth handful I stuffed
into the pillow I was seized with the
first paroxysm—it lasted 37 sneezes,
Agapanthus suggested a handker-
chief tied over my nose. The next
time I stopped at the 32nd.
“There!” she said triumphantly.
“Isn’t that better?”
The next lot set a new record at
41. I tried going over the other side
of the yard, taking a deep breath,
rushing over to the mattress and
madly filling until my lungs felt at
bursting-point, when I’d stagger over
to what I thought was the pure-air
section.
It was no good. The whole air
was filled with kapok-dust. I could
hear Finlay son two doors away
sneezing non-stop, and no doubt
miserably wondering why the hell his
hay-fever should come back at that
time of the year.
Then Agapanthus got a brain-
wave, and trotted out a couple of old
silk stockings, which I pulled over
my head. It seemed heavenly when
the sneezes were reduced to about
only 10 a minute, though it made
breathing much more difficult. In
half an hour 'l’d finished the first
pillow.
I had just gone inside with it when
the doorbell rang. Unthinkingly I
opened the front-door to Mrs, Mag-
well from over the road. She gave
one horrified look, turned and fled
shrieking. I recalled later that
criminals resort to the device of
pulling stockings over their faces to
distort their features.
Going out to fill the second pillow
after an interlude for a cuppa, I
found our kids and next-door’s en-
gaged in a kapok fight. Driving them
off, I set to work again. I had just
started when the southerly buster
arrived, and within seconds the whole
yard was a swirling mass of kapok.
Fed-up, I retired indoors.
Tie sudden tropical downpour
which followed soon afterwards re-
duced the remnants of the mattress
to a soggy mess, which, later that
night, while it was still raining, I
shoved in the car-boot and dumped
over the fence of our local dentist,
who on my last visit had touched an.
exposed nerve.
It was one evening about a fort-
night later, the curses of the neigh-
borhood having been lulled to inter-
mittent snipings, when I returned
from the office to find Agapanthus
quite joyful. She pointed to a
parcel,
“Look, darling,” she said. “They’re
something I’ve always wanted. You
remember my Uncle Fred who has
that foam-rubber factory in Mel-
bourne. He must have remembered
it’s my birthday tomorrow and he
sent me over a couple of pillows! ”
Bo.
STORY
“The Hard Way”
by “Standby” (R. S. Porteus)
A ship haunted by a ghost at sea,
the crew scared and only water to
jump into—how can an acting-master
deal with a situation like that?
In next week’s “Bulletin”


The Bulletin
Wednesday, April 29, 1953
VoL 74—No. 3820
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney: Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite GJP.O.'), Wellington.
DECEIT AND REALITY
The appeal of Dr. Evdtt and his followers to the
electors in the Senate campaign is about as impudent
as anything in Australian political history.
What the Opposition is asking for is the right for a
minority party to govern through a House which has
no responsibility for framing policy. It is against all
“Labor” theory that the Senate is the House which
should hold the mandate of the people. “Labor’s”
platform, indeed, calls for the abolition of the Senate,
though that plank, like socialisation, its main objec-
tive, has been stowed under the seat for the duration
of the present journey to the polls.
The status of the Senate is shown by the circum-
stance that its members are not leading its own cam-
paign. It might almost be called a Senate campaign
without candidates. It is being conducted by the men
who make Government and Opposition policy, and
who do their work in the House of Representatives in
which the Prime Minister, most of his deputies and
the Leader and Deputy-Leader of the “Labor” party
hold their seats along with every other important
member of “Labor’s” “shadow Cabinet.” But “Labor”
is asking the electors to remove the authority to govern
from this House temporarily, because it suits “Labor’s”
convenience, to one which is without senior leadership.
The fact that the Senate cannot override the Lower
House in financial matters and cannot initiate or force
the passing of its own taxation programme is blithely
passed over. That great constitutionalist Dr. Evatt is
cynically open in his admission that what he cannot
obtain by straight constitutional means he will try to
get by devoting his helot Senate .majority (if any) to
a programme of tricky political blackmailing obstruc-
tion. This even if it defeats the decisions made by
large majorities in the House of Representatives.
The real objective, of course, is -probably to make
it impossible for the Government to continue to carry
on aL all and to force another general election on the
country before voters have time to appreciate the
ultimate benefits of a salutary but not palatable dose
of corrective medicine. “Labor” would sooner have its
election while the country’s mouth is still full of the
taste of castor-oil rather than have it go to the poll
when it feels the benefit of being cured. An admission
of this intention would be going too far even for
Dr. Evatt; but it is obviously the real plan. Only
two months ago “Labor” organs and members were
shouting cynically in tune with Mr. Calwell that if
the Senate campaign were won “Menzies would be
out in six months.”
The recent concealment of this aim, of course, is
only in keeping with the temporary “repudiation” of
socialisation about which the truth was made clear
in an indignant article last January in the “Labor
Call” flouting the suggestion that the Triennial
Conference in Adelaide had heaved it overboard:
The decision of the Adelaide conference to hasten
slowly does not mean a change in policy on public
ownership as a principle. It suggested a crawl-before-
you-walk approach to nationalisation. The Privy
Council decided on the Bank case that the Australian
Parliament had not the power to nationalise any-
thing—a form of national polio that threatens to
paralyse Australian industry until Federation’s
original promise—unification—is redeemed.
On the evidence of this quotation from the Vic-
toriart official organ not only is Dr, Evatt betraying
hjs own political religion based on socialisation. He
is also—for the duration of the campaign—shelving
“Labor’s” scheme for the destruction of the States
which the Senate represents, a necessary part of the
socialisation plan. No speech by this leader of the
State-wrecking party is x without almost-tearful refer-
ence to the brutal oppression which the States suffer
at the hands of the tyrannical Menzies Administration,
and the need to elect a benevolent “Labor” Govern-
ment which will regard them as “partners.”
The Evatt plan of partnership is the same as the
wolf’s plan for a merger with Red Riding Hood.
“Labor” leaders appear to be prepared to promise
anything to win. They even promise reduction in
taxation greater than the Menzies Government offers,
though they know nothing as yet of what the next
Budget will offer. They give their assurances blithely
and regardless of the fact that members of their own
“shadow Cabinet” have recently been advocating the
use of taxation and capital levies to help destroy the
free-enterprise system.
Senator Donald Cameron, one of the men for
whom they are asking dominating power in the Senate
FUN AND GAMES
and whom they placed in charge of the post-office,
Australia’s largest public enterprise, when last in office,
has been publicising Mad Hatter views on money such
as the following, published on January 22 last:
Actually there Is no shortage of money in Aus-
tralia, or in any other country for that matter. It
, is simply a medium of exchange, mostly paper money
in these days, which is controlled by money-power
for the purpose of increasing profits and perpetuating
the existence of the capitalist system at the expense
of the workers.
This certainly does not sound like the views of a party
which pleads for “a stable economy” and the pro-
tection of workers’ savings.
As Treasurer Fadden commented last week, the
only recipe Dr. Evatt and his party have for provide
ing a Government which will be a “bulwark of national
credit and financial policy” is the “printing
of a greater volume of banknotes and flooding the
country with them.” This is a process which, if not
backed by the new production concerning which
“Labor” leaders are indifferent, would soon produce
the “horror Budgets,” “despair,” “desperation” and
all the other catastrophic nightmares which at present
have no reality except as words in Dr. Evatt’s panic-
mongering vocabulary.
Dead-end Jobs
Towards the close of*every school year the Ministers
of Education in the, various States deplore what Dr.
Wyndham, Director of Education in New South Wales,
calls “the wastage of adolescents leaving school at too
early an age.” Dr. Wyndham reports that of the
50,000 youngsters who go from the primary to the
secondary schools each, year, more than half have
dropped out by the time the intermediate-examination
standard is reached three years later, and that only
6000 survive to complete the leaving-certificate course.
Many of these fall by the wayside through inability
to stay the distance, but Dr. Wyndham is probably
quite right in saying that most of them are attracted
by the lure of the well-paid dead-end job.
In many cases parental greed or shortsightedness
is to blame, but in far more it is likely that the
motivating cause is the example of others. Thousands
of homes are faced with the problem of trying to keep
a teenager’s nose to the grindstone of study, on meagre
pocket-money, while his schoolmates of a year ago
are able to flaunt big pay-envelopes, “act grown-up,”
have every night and weekend free and talk of home-
work and school routine as kids’ stuff. Pep-talks about
the big jobs ultimately open to those who apply them-
selves diligently to their studies for a few years are
all very well, but what to an adult is a few years can
seem like half a lifetime to a youngster, especially if
he is to spend it watching others of his age-group—as
he sees it —really living, while he wastes his time merely
preparing himself for life.
This problem of the dead-end job is no new one.
It has always been with us, but never on such a scale
as in the post-war years, when any unskilled lad has
been able to pick and choose his jobs at a wage which,
even allowing for the fall in the value of money, would
in other times have taken him years of hard work to
attain. Girls as well as boys have been admitted in
their tens of thousands to this new privileged class of
spending-power without responsibility. It is not natural
for youth to save, and money which has come too
easily to this group has been very soon speeded on its
way, contributing to the spending boom and thus to
inflation, and at the same time offering glittering
temptation to the more sober-minded of their genera-
tion to give up school and join in the fun.
Parents cannot be blamed altogether for yielding
to their children’s pleas to be allowed to leave school
and start work. Every teacher can point to examples
of boys or girls who have made up their mind that
school has nothing further to offer them and are, in
consequence, frittering away their time, learning
nothing and holding up others willing to learn. With
these it is only a matter of time before teachers and
parents alike reach the conclusion that they “might as
well be earning money as wasting their time at school.”
Some form of compulsory saving for minors, on
the lines of Army deferred-pay, might be a part-answer
to this problem ; it would put a brake on the spending-
power of an irresponsible section, lessen the force of
their example on others and provide a nest-egg which
would be useful to them when a few more years had
brought a modicum of discretion.
It isn’t, of course, claimed that an academic
education is the main purpose of existence, or even
that it is essential to success in life. Many of the
world’s greatest men had no formal education beyond
primary-school standard; thousands of university
graduates have finished up in the gutter. But this is
the day of opportunity for all, and there is surely
something wrong when, under a system of free educa-
tion, only 12 children of every 100 adjudged capable
of absorbing a secondary-school education actually
complete the course. From the point of view of the
individual, the loss of schooling may not in the end
be serious; there are more roads than one to success
and happiness. But in an age when science, skill and
technical training become more and more important
every year, the loss from a national standpoint may
be calamitous.
There is general acceptance of this, yet in this
country, and in Dr. Wyndham’s State in particular, the
teenage youngster sees little to deter him from choosing
the path of quick, easy money rather than the one of
hard work in the hope of future reward. Why, he may
very well reason, should he study for years to equip
himself as a biochemist, nuclear physicist or professor
of mathematics when he sees a trade-union secretary
appointed Milk Board chairman at £2750 a year? Why
put in four years at a university to graduate in
engineering, when a defeated politician can step into
a job as chairman of the Hunter District Water Board
at £2750 a year? For that matter, why go to the
trouble of earning an honors degree in English, when
the Federal and State Parliaments provide a lucrative
income, free travel, liberal allowances and a handsome
pension to men who can’t even speak the Queen’s
English or compose a sentence of more than two
clauses without completely losing the thread of their
discourse?
This is a problem the cure for which must come
from the top. Until our rulers show a genuine regard
for learning, scholarship and technical- and scientific-
training and a willingness to give them the rewards
commensurate with their value to the nation, they
cannot hope to arrest the drift of bright youths to
dead-end jobs.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Evatt and Evatt
Dr. Evatt, during his hardworking
campaign of vituperation in the past
three weeks, has stuck to destructive
criticism. His themes have been the
“horror budget” of 1951 (under the in-
fluence of which Australia continued to
be one of the most prosperous countries
in the world); the failure to “put value
back into the pound,” a feat of which
not even Dr. Evatt himself, with the
economic tutelage of Jock Garden thrown
in, would be capable with the 40-
hour week and the basic wage
where it is and with a Government devoid
of power to deal with it; the failure to
reduce taxation (which has been re-
duced, and which is to be reduced again);
and, finally, the failure to produce “full
employment,” which is about as full as
feasible, and’ fuller than at any time in
history except for a brief period during
the present Government’s own term of
office.
One authority whom Dr. Evatt does
not quote on this last matter is Dr. Evatt.
But he is worth quoting. When he was
putting the Commonwealth Powers
(“Fourteen Points”) Bill through in 1944,
one of his main arguments in favor of its
passage was that the Commonwealth had
no power under the Constitution to pro-
vide full employment. He pleaded again
and again for Parliament to give him
this power. As reported in “Hansard,”
page 146-147, February 11, 1944, he
said:
Under the existing: Constitution this
Parliament would have no direct authority
whatever.. .to ensure that employment is
guaranteed and unemployment pre-
vented... I’or the Commonwealth has no
general peace-time power in relation to
unemployment... In the disturbed con-
ditions of the post-war years, fuU em-
ployment cannot possibly be achieved
unless some authority is empowered to
exercise a wide power to determine how
employment is to be expanded.
He continued that “power to prevent
mass dismissals or the putting-off of
employees was a matter for the States,”
which “had full power in these matters,”
whereas “the Commonwealth Parliament
and Government have virtually no power,
except the indirect influence that they
can exert through tribunals for con-
ciliation and arbitration ;in (settling a
limited class of industrial dispute In
peace-tune the only steps which Australia,
as a nation, can take to eliminate un-
employment are by way of grants to the
States or by way of unemployment in-
surance.”
The Commonwealth has secured no
new Constitutional powers since the
specious Doctor made this almost tearful
and insistent plea.
If politicians return to earth in some
other form of life after death, Dr. Evatt
will next be with us probably as the
thickest-shelled giant turtle on Cocos. No
other form of animal life can match his
hide.
Behind the Laos Front
A good vantage-point from which to
study the “peace” moves of Russia and
China is the recently invaded buffer State
of Laos, which lies along the western
border of Vietnam and militarily is a
road from China to Siam and Malaya.
The French having been forced to con-
strict their defences in Vietnam to cover
Hanoi and the Red River delta, with its
rich food resources and communications
with the outside world, the Vietminh
Communists have been able to sneak into
positions along most of the border
between Vietnam and Laos, which is a
narrow State and very long. The French
are most concerned to hold them off
in a salient half-way up the length of
Vietnam. This is about the only part
of Laos which has really had any
defences at all.
It was easy for the Communist troops
to act with surprise and to get quickly
where they wanted to get, as they have
been doing in the past ten days or so
irom three separate points, south, centre
and north-east, driving for the main
towns of the State. The significance and
interest of what they have done lies in
their timing.
On March 19-22 the “Second National
Peace Congress of the Vietnam National
Peace Movement” took place—where not
stated. The report of a part of it is a
feature of the issue of the official organ
of Malenkov’s Cominform published in
Bucharest on April 10. That Conference
was guided in its proceedings by Nguyen
Xuan Toui, Vietnam delegate to the
Peking Peace Conference. It was attended
by a delegation from Laos. It began with
the usual adulation of Soviet leaders and
“reviewed the successes of the people of
Vietnam.” It affirmed the solidarity of
“Vietnam Communists”—that is, of Ho
Chi-Minh’s Vietminh Government —and
received greetings from the “Liaison
Peace Committee of countries of Asia
and the Pacific and from the Chinese
Committee of Peace and for the struggle
against American aggression.” The
Chinese committee wished them “further
big victories against the invaders” and
adjured them to “let the close unity and
friendship between the peoples of China
and Vietnam grow stronger.” This could
not have been sent without the con-
currence of the Chinese Government.
The conference took place in the week
approaches were made by the Com-
munists for the exchange of sick and
wounded in Korea. The French and
Americans evidently smelt a rat, since,
on March 29, they issued a warning that
any armistice arranged would be invali-
dated by “subsequent Chinese aggression
elsewhere in, the Far East.” On April 7
Vietminh radio-station closed announcing
that there would be no broadcast for a
week. On April 10, the day on which
the Cominform’s official organ splashed
the report of the Indo-Chinese Peace
Conference across its front page. Com-
munist troops moved forward to cross
the Laos borders. By this time they are
well on their way to the Siamese border.
Meanwhile in Korea such sick prisoners
as have not. died in death-marches have
been disgorged by the Reds in exchange
for an infinitely greater number of their
own men. And the armistice negotiations
for permanent peace abandoned after a
year of futile wrangling have been re-
opened at Panmunjon.
G.-Gs. and Politics
Field-Marshal Sir William Slim,
victor of Burma and formerly Chief of
the Imperial General Staff, has arrived
to take over the Governor-Generalship.
Australia will welcome him because he
is one of the greatest soldiers of modern
times as well as a man personifying most
things that are good and sound in
British leadership and because he will
restore the prestige of the Governor-
Generalship, and particularly that of the
constitutional office of Commander-in-
Chief,
The McKell incident is now over, ex-
cept for an aftermath which threatens
in Parliament. It is to be hoped that it
will be last of the kind, and that some
steps will be taken to establish a definite
procedure by which future Govemors-
General will be chosen above political
levels.
The fury with which McKell is
now hated among the “Labor” men who
appointed Ijim makes quite clear the
reason why he was appointed. “Labor’s”
complaint against him is that he “let
them down.” For months “Labor”
members have been trying to unleash
their wrath on him in Parliament, but
have been debarred by the limitations of
procedure which forbid criticism in either
House of the King’s representative ex-
cept on a substantive motion. It is,
however, likely that the storm will break
when Parliament next meets.
It is completely against the dignity of
the country and its Government that
anything like this should even be
threatened at the end of a Governor-
General’s term, and it provides complete
justification of all the criticism which
was levelled at the appointment when it
was made, obviously against the wish
of the King and the majority of Aus-
tralians.
No politician can be translated by his
own party straight from office to Yarra-
lumla without being laid open to charges
of bias. And it is devoutly to be hoped
that even “Labor” has learned sense
from its experiment. ,
Who Are They?
A queer feature of the Senate campaign
is the submersion of the candidates,
especially by the Liberal-C.P. The theory
seems to be that Senators, when elected,
will be merely ciphers either of the Giant
Menzies or the Giant Evatt. The result
is likely to be the loss or spoiling of
thousands of votes.
Thirty people in Sydney this week were
asked to name the Liberal-C.P. candi-
dates. They were all intelligent, educated
people. Liberal sympathisers, and only
four were even able to name some
of them. In a complicated poll with so
much hanging on a crucial few thousand
votes it would seem that a good bet for
the Liberals would be an intensive how-
to-vote campaign over the days remain-
ing to them before the poll, with every-
thing subordinated to making the com-
plicated voting methods understandable.
The A.L.P. is taking care of this side
of electioneering through the unions,
public service and otherwise, but the
Liberals have no comparative organisa-
tion.
And unless they wake up they will pay
heavily for it.
Paying for Road Accidents
Hard on the heels of the decision of a
big insurance company not to accept
any more motorists’ third-party risk busi-
ness (the co. says it lost £45,000 on this
form of insurance in recent years) comes
a recommendation for highly-increased
third-party-risk premiums in Victoria.
That, if the Victorian Government
accepts it, will be followed by increases
in other States.
Motorists can get an idea of what
they’re in for from the suggested rises,
put up by a State Premiums Committee.
On private cars in the city the annual
rate will be £8 145., in the country £4
12s. 6d. On business cars, trucks, taxis,
buses, etc., the new rates range from
£7 4s. to £96.
But even these huge premiums are un-
likely to persuade those companies which
have given the business away to take it
on again. Fantastic damages awards by
sentimental juries, huge compensation to
family members injured while in the
family car, and so forth, together with
the growing belief among certain types
of motorists that t.-p. entitles them to
drive dangerously, and among pedestrians
that it entitles them to be criminally
negligent, plus the vast increase of motor
vehicles on roads unable to carry them
(or a fifth of them) all at once and result-
ant steep increases in road accidents,
make third-party, a losing proposition for
insurers.
It is compulsory for the motor-owner
to have this form of insurance before he
can use the road. It is not compulsory
for pedal-cyclists, pedestrians, owners
of horse-drawn vehicles, wheelbarrow-
pushers, swagmen, or hitch-hikers to
have it, though all of them insist on their
rights to use the road. It is, in a sense,
obligatory on the motor-owner to insure
the damn-fool pedestrian against the
pedestrian’s carelessness. And it looks
like ending in thousands of people find-
ing it beyond their means to run a car
and insure the rest of the State against
being hit by it.
The position obviously calls for some
deep thinking by Governments. It never
was good enough that the motorist should
carry the entire risk. Since we are com-
mitted to motor transport, and since it
Will increase and become more and more
a vital part of national life, it seems that
some kind of national road insurance, in
which all are required to bear a portion
of the risk, has become necessary.
For the big point is that whereas
motor-owners are compelled to take out
third-party insurance, underwriters are
not compelled to accept it. Which could
lead to the point where Government in-
surance will have to carry all the risk
(in itself a form of national insurance be-
cause the taxpayer must meet losses) or
many motor vehicles will be stalled in
their garages.
There has been talk in Queensland that
insurance cos. may be compelled by the
State to underwrite third-party risks
whether they like it or not. That cannot
possibly cure the situation. It would
only obscure its actualities.
These Democrats
For a while it seemed that the Senate
campaign would produce the most
prolific crop of plain and fancy demo-
crats since the lush season of 1943, when
Federal candidates sported more labels
than a field of prize dahlias. By the
time nominations for May 9 closed, the
Sydney Democrats had decided not to
field a team, and from the various Queens-
land groups emerged a joint ticket con-
sisting of Sir Raphael Cilento, H. W.
Herbert and C. W. Russell, former C.P.
member for Maranoa. There is no
doubt about the ability of this team, and
their motives may be quite worthy, but
it is difficult to see how, in the present
set-up of parties at Canberra, their can-
didature can perform any useful service
to Australia.
In its advertisements the Democratic
Party claims it will get at least one
Senator elected in Queensland and will
thus “prevent a deadlock between Liberal
and Labor.” In 1951 “Bombshell”
Barnes had similar ambitions of holding
the balance of power in the Senate; so
did Jack Lang. The Big Fella came
closest to it, but was still far enough off
to show that it is almost impossible to
take a seat from the two main parties
under the present system of so-called
proportional representation.
The “quota” required to elect a N. S.
Wales Senator in 1951 was 156,138. Lang
got 60,549 on the first count, and,
although he increased this to 108,361 in
the final cut-up, he was still close on
50,000 votes short of a quota. On the
other hand, Amour secured only 1812
original votes, yet thanks to the pass-on
value of the party vote he finished with
203,897 —nearly as many in excess of
the quota as Lang fell short of it—and
slipped into the tenth seat.
Even if the Democrats should be lucky
enough to pick up a Queensland seat they
would still not be able to make good their
claim to prevent a deadlock between
Liberal and “Labor.” Assuming they
win a seat and that their calculations
(and “Labor’s”) as to the result in other
States are correct, the position in the
Senate will be Government, 29 ; “Labor,”
30; Democrat, 1. If the solitary Demo-
crat votes with “Labor,” Parliament is
deadlocked, If he votes with the Govern-
ment, the result is a draw, and under
Senate rules the motion is lost and
Parliament is again deadlocked.
The Democrats may claim that their
seat —supposing they win one —will not
necessarily be * taken from the Govern-
ment ; it could come from “Labor.”
They must know that that is not the
case. Ilie 1949 election, when “Labor’s”
stocks were falling, was the time for
that. Groups and Independents in the
field today are relying on a swing against
the Government, not against “Labor.”
And as far as the Senate is concerned
their activities can benefit no one but
Evatt and Co.
Abram Blows the Gaff
Much more attention than it received
should be paid to a statement made by
N.S.W. Prices Minister Abram Landa
who, on leaving a conference of State
Prices Ministers in Melbourne, is reported
to have said “Ministers will examine
lists of goods controlled in one State
and not in another to see what they can
recontrol.”
To “see what they can recontrol” is
all too clearly the intention of these
people, doubtless spurred on by the
bureaucrats from whom they take their
orders. There is plenty of evidence not
only that one-time controllers are hungry
to get their hands on us again but that
the party which Mr. Landa adorns is con-
vinced that controls, as a first step to
socialisation, are essential to its final aim.
And that final aim, despite Dr. Evatt’s
evasions, is still socialisation.
Mr. Landa himself is worth considera-
tion. Until the recent N.S.W. election he
had not held Ministerial rank. Suddenly
finding himself in the position of the
lucky Frankie Finnan, who was rejected
by the electors of Albury and was
promptly appointed chairman of the
Hunter River Water Board, Abram also
found himself chairman of a Prices
Ministers’ conference at which five were
“Labor” and one Liberal. He was so
overcome that he came away loudly
asserting that prices of sundry commodi-
ties would be recontrolled and others
were due for it, as though he had been
studying economic laws, commercial sys-
tems and prices statistics for years.
However, it is not Mr. Landa so much
as the party he represents which must be
watched. Last year it sustained a con-
tinual bombardment of the Federal
Government with demands for price-
control, though that Government was
elected and re-elected as much for its
declared policy of removing controls as
anything else, and despite the plain fact
that price-control is a washout in a peace-
time economy—a washout from any
aspect of trade and commerce, and in
addition rotten with the evils of black-
marketing, scarcity, corruption and
lowered quality standards.
This is the party whose leader is asking
Australians to return a “Labor” Senate
on May 9 so that he can hamstring and
seek the ruin of the Government elected
to abolish controls. Mr. Landa’s inten-
tion to “see what he can recontrol” puts
the Senate election in a clearer light than
anything yet said about it. For it is
plainly a simple choice between socialisa-
tion —of which price-control is the key-
stone —or freedom, of which open com-
petition and economically-dictated prices
are a cornerstone.
Blockaded Sugar Ports
Congestion at Queensland sugar ports
has been the nightmare of the industry
since 1945. In normal sugar seasons it is
bad enough ; in heavy seasons like 1952
{Continued on page 7)


..
For any electoral comment in this issue
requiring signature* David Adams, of 252
George-street, Sydney, is responsible.
it resulted in sugar being stored in halls,
old sheds, showgrounds and wherever
there was a roofed space. The two main
causes are out-of-date handling methods
and a “darg” on ship-loading imposed by
the wharfies.
In its annual report to the Federal
Government for 1951-52 the Stevedoring
Industry Board says that from the cane-
farm to the mill sugar-production is
“highly efficient,” but once it reaches the
ports “the orderly process breaks down,”
and “efficiency is practically non-
existent.”
Queenslanders who know their sugar
coast know the truth of this. In spite of
promises made and plans prepared, there
is no attempt to use modern loading
methods, nearly all loading being done
exclusively by ship’s gear ; supervision is
wretched; and the wharfies seldom, if
ever,- reach the very reasonable loading-
rate of “four tons per carrier per hour”
accepted by their union in 1947.
The 5.1.8. claims that employers are
just as much to blame as employees for
the slow loading-rates, the hold-ups, the
general loss and delay. It says that
wharfies resist introduction of mechani-
cal loading and employers accept the
resistance tamely, with the result that a
good deal of gear lies idle or, if used, is
so handled as to reduce rather than
increase efficiency.
A sufficient illustration of how the
shipping end of the industry is bogged
down is the fact that the Innisfail-Mouril-
yan area mills, which produce close to
100,000 tons of raw sugar a season, have
to send it by lighter some 60 to 70 miles
up the coast to Cairns, thotigh Mourilyan
has a good harbor of its own.
The answer, of course, is bulk-handling.
There was a time when the southern
wheat-industry got by with bags and
hand-trucks and slings, but when wheat-
production began to expand after 1918
it ran into somewhat the same problem
as now faces sugar. Inside 25 years the
wheat country was dotted with silos and
every wheat port had its terminal ele-
vators. This was a national, not a State
necessity.
In the light of the new world outlook
on food, bulk-handling of wheat is now
a world necessity. So is bulk-handling
of sugar, one of the most necessary items
of modern diet. The Queensland sugar
industry, worth £4O million to the State
this year, can ignore all the appeals to
produce more food. Because without
bulk-handling it is more effectively tied
down than a Scotch-hobbled cow.
POLITICAL POINTS
Ten days to the ninth!
• •
Calwell is shadowing Menzies, as
planned, but he’s not casting much of a
shadow.
• •
“Labor” is the party of paradox. It
hopes to dictate to the Government
through control of the Senate, yet it is
pledged by its platform to abolish the
Senate. Its leader is weeping crocodile
tears at the crool way the Menzies Gov-
ernment has been treating the States, yet
he and his party are pledged + o abolish
State Parliaments. Every “Labor” elec-
tion speech includes a howl about infla-
tion, yet every “Labor” speech advocates
a credit policy which would aggravate
inflation. And every one of ’em demands
that the Menzies Government be thrown
out for not fulfilling promises which
“Labor” criticised it for making in 1949.
• •
Queensland’s population is falling at an
alarming rate. It must be; the Federal
electoral roll contains 10,598 fewer names
than were on the State roll at the general
election only two months ago. Of course,
there could be another explanation, but
so far the Gair Government hasn’t offered
one,
• •
If Jock Garden has any regard at all
for his reputation he will have to deny
that it was he who gave Bert Evatt his
grounding in economics—or at least that
he taught him the brand the Doc. is
peddling today. Latest sample (at Mid-
land Junction, W.A.): —
Labor’s policy is not inflationary. What
is inflationary is the large army of people
who are unemployed who could be doing
productive work.
Even when the Garden ‘School of
Economics was in full bloom it never
disputed the generally-held belief that
unemployment is deflationary. Another
of Jock’s former pupils, Eddie Ward, has
said enough on the subject to fill a book
—provided he can find a publisher who
doesn’t mind repetition.
• •
Premier Playford put his finger right
on the spot when he said that much of
the criticism of the Federal Government’s
efforts to control inflation came from
people who had a vested interest in in-
flation. Except that it would be truer
-to say most than much.
• •
Eddie Ward is always complaining
about being misreported, but unless he’s
been misreported this time, by the
Adelaide “Advertiser,” he told an
Adelaide Botanic Park audience that “Dr.
Evatt had been misreported as saying
that the Labor party had abandoned the
principle of bank-nationalisation.” That
means that “Labor” still believes in the
One Big Bank. And despite all the Doc.
says about the issue being dead, Eddie
for one won’t let it lie down. Nor will
Calwell, Cameron and a long string of
other ardent Socialists whom Evatt is
trying to keep quiet until the election is
over.
• •
Premier Cain said the Vic. “Labor”
Government would set up a State lottery,
the bill for which would probably be
introduced in September. He’ll have to
get the support of Hollway Liberals Gart-
side and MacLeod in the Leg. Council
to do it, Cain’s Ministers say Victorians
favor a lottery “to help hospitals.”
N.S.W. has been running eight lotteries
a week lately, yet its hospitals are in
worse case than Victoria’s.
If Victoria starts a State lottery, it
seems certain that sales of N.S.W.,
Queensland and West Australian lottery-
tickets will become “illegal” in Victoria
as “foreign lotteries.” Non-N.S.W.
lottery-tickets have been “illegal” in
N.S.W. for years, but nobody has ever
been prosecuted for buying or selling
them.
• •
Possibly the Brisbane wharfies who
knocked off five minutes early for lunch
so they could climb from the ships’ holds
to the deck in the. boss’s time, were taking
their cue from the herds of Government
employees in city buildings who start
their lunch-hour a good 15 minutes early,
so they can get well away from the office
in the boss’s time —the boss being you
and me.
• •
Menzies at Bendigo;
The Labor party wants to return to
power and be in a position to do nothing
for six months till the graph of prosperity
rises, so that they can then say, ‘Look what
Wonderful boys we are.’
The P.M, obviously had in mind the past
form of his opponents. After opposing
almost every move of the Menzies Gov-
ernment for the first two years of the
war, “Labor” came to power in October,
1941, reaped the benefit of all the pre-
liminary work its opponents had done in
training, services and supply, and took
all the credit for itself. An outstanding
example is the Captain Cook Dock.
“Labor” opposed the whole project, yet
the official opening was an all-“ Labor”
"CROAK! CROAK! CROAK!"
[Reprinted from B. 9/4/1952.]
show and the souvenir programme made
no mention of those really responsible
for the dock.
• •
Election advertisements in most States
feature portraits of the party leaders, but
in Tasmania there is more of the indi-
vidual touch. Senator Aylett’s ads., for
example, display his photograph, with the
slogan, “For Honesty in Politics.” As
the Senator was omitted from “Labor’s”
team in the first instance and is now
placed fourth in preference, electors may
be excused for wondering whether, the
implied backhander in the slogan is
directed at the Government or his own
party executive.
• •
Melbourne City Council sent a cable
of congratulation to the three Australian
representatives on the International
Olympic Committee, Weir, Coles and
Barry, for landing the Games for
Melbourne. A letter of thanks was also
sent to Minister for the Interior Kent
Hughes, ill in bed in Melbourne, for
pulling the various local committees to-
gether. Nobody was sent a letter of
thanks for suppressing the fact that pubs
close at six o’clock in Melbourne.
• •
An advocate of new States told a
Townsville audience that Queensland had
begun as a State with about 25,000 people
and 7d. in the Treasury, whereas a new
North Queensland State could begin with
more than 200,000 people and a probable
income of £lOO million. North Queens-
landers should tell Premier Gair that
next time he sneers that a North Queens-
land State couldn’t support itself.
• • %
Tucked away among the general news
was an announcement that the N.S.W.
Egg Board had reduced its levy on egg-
farmers from 6d. to 3d. a dozen. Then
came: “The Board earlier had increased
the levy to 6d. because of higher feed-
costs and removal of the Government
subsidy on wheat for poultry.” Any
egg-farmer can work it out for himself,
after finding out which members of the
board ate the dearer feed.
• •
The sudden reticence of Calwell, who,
supposedly chasing the P.M. to answer
his arguments, spent most of last week
chasing himself round- Sydney, and of
Ward, said to be absorbed in preparing
for Parliament his magnum opus “I Knew
McKell Too Well,” is one of the
mysteries of the Senate campaign. Either
they are shy at the sight of their leader’s
delusions of grandeur or the A.L.P. feels
that they are not appropriate exhibits in
the team of the moderate anti-Socialist
Dr. Evatt. Or perhaps they are still
Socialists and cannot support the party
line.
• •
Going on the title, The Story of My
Ruin, New Zealand censors banned a
book by Marion Cran. They looked
rather silly when they found it was no-
thing more than a book on gardening.
“The Story of Our Ruin,” the current
serial by Dr. Evatt, hasn’t been banned.
It’s too silly even for the censors,
• e
In guaranteeing a home to two ex-
p.-0.-w. from Korea, whose families have
been living in housing settlements, Clive
Evatt has for once made a decision which
nobody (except the Communists) will
dispute.
• •
Dr. Evatt’s Three-D plan; Depression,
Distortion and Demagoguery.
• •
«
Talk of a merger between the C.P.
and L.C.P. in Victoria is still floating
around, the likelihood of its eventual
occurrence having been increased by the
Two-for-one Redistribution bill, which
has probably put an end to the Cockies’
chances of ever again forming a minority
Government in the Dunstan-McDonald
tradition. The 'Libs, look like raising the
subject next month, but the C.P. secretary
has got in early with a statement that his
party can’t do anything officially until
next year’s annual conference.
In the meantime the anti-“ Labor”
forces in Victoria remain divided into
three parts. “Labor,” on the other hand,
is solid —on the surface.
• •
On Winston Churchill’s Garter:
There is considerable fuss over Winston
Churchill’s acceptance of the Knighthood or
the Garter. It will ensure him a place in the
pageantry of the Coronation for which the
office of Prime Minister does not provide; also,
it is probably a preliminary to his retirement
from the Prime Ministership. No modem Prime
Minister has ever taken a knighthood, no
matter how exalted, but it has become a recent
custom for retiring elder statesmen who have
held the post to accept both a peerage and the
Garter on retiring from the Commons A. J.
Balfour (1922) and Stanley Baldwin (1937) both
did it. There are 25 British knights, plus the
Sovereign, the Prince of Wales and other Royal-
ties, and such foreign sovereigns as may be
admitted, among whom a vacancy was created
the other day by the death of King Carol ot
Rumania. At present they include two British
Royal Dukes, Gloucester and Edinburgh ; two
Kings—Norway and Denmark; three ex-kings
Duke of Windsor, Leopold of the Belgians, Prince
Paul of Yugo-Slavia; the Dukes of Norfolk,
Abercorn, Beaufort, Portland and Wellington;
the great leaders of World War 11, Lords
Portal, Alexander, Montgomery, and Earl
Mountbatten; some members of the ancient
peerage and a few not so ancient or distin-
guished. The last order before Churchill’s was
conferred on Lord Allendale, a Beaumont whose
ancient Northumbrian family has always had a
close connection with the Court and who has
been a Lord-in-Waiting for many years. The
- only commoner in modern times to have me
Garter while still in active politics was Sir
Austen Chamberlain.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Piper”: In this initial-ridden society,
when any string of letters ending in “A”
almost invariably signifies “Airways,” it
took me all of ten seconds to make sense
of an ad. in a newspaper held by the
man in front of me in the tram. With
the final word in large,, widely-spaced
type, it read, “Travel by S E A.”
❖ *X* *X*
“Jasby”: For millions of years that
innocent substance chlorophyll did
nothing but supply the green color to
plants. Then someone discovered its
“His wife claims he beat her, your Honor. He admits he did —
TO THE DOOR!”
deodorant properties and since then it
has been busily engaged taking the smell
. out of a wide range of items from
' drunks’ breath to rubber tennis-shoes.
There’s one surprising omission, though.
That’s why I am shortly putting on the
market “Jasby’s A.P.C. Powders, WITH
CHLOROPHYLL.” 'l’hey’re intended
especially for those stinking headaches.
❖ ❖ *X*
“Buster”: There seems to be a serious
weakness in the tests for driving licences
in New South Wales. Although Sydney
is blessed with untold numbers of traffic
lights, there’s no check on color-
blindness. Which probably accounts for
thp sublime indifference of the aged-
driver of an equally venerable taxi which
infests Sydney’s northern suburbs. The
* first time he went through a red on the
Pacific Highway I admired his courage.
But when he did it a second time half a
mile nearer the Bridge I just had to hand
him the leather medal. I’ve since realised
the reason for his supreme indifference.
❖ ♦>
“Cauboy”: Another record has been
broken by the Kiwis, who have just
entered their eighth year of engagement
to the one firm —in this case. The Firm.
As far as is known, no theatrical com-
pany in history has ever done this. The
D’Oyley Carte Co. cohld be said to have
started in 1875 when Richard D’Oyly
produced “Trial by Jury,” the first joint
product of the Gilbert and Sullivan com-
bination, and Rupert D’Oyly is still keep-
ing it going, but he changes his casts
every few years. The Kiwis occupying
the boards at the Comedy, Melbourne,
are the same old flock who started there
in 1945, in fear and trepidation that Mel-
bourne wouldn’t like them.
❖ ❖ ❖
“0.W.W.”; She was discussing a dis-
gruntled boarder: “Fancy him going
crook about having to scrape the black
off a bit of toast! He ought to know
burnt pieces keep hot longer, anyhow.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Flicker’s Ghost”: Arrival of three-
dimensional films reminds me of the early
days of the silents when the “travelling
cinemas” brought Mary Pickford and
Marguerite Clarke to the back country
towns, I can’t recall one performance
that wasn’t interrupted by at least half a
dozen breakdowns. In almost half the
cases the show had to be abandoned with
an offer to refund admission money, a
gesture which was never accepted by the
bush folk, who were always keenly sym-
pathetic towards the pioneering show-
man. One enterprising type who toured
Victorian country towns exploited this
trait to good profit. Just before screen-
ing commenced, a deafening detonation
would issue from the projector and the
showman would tremulously explain that
£5OO worth of equipment had gone up in
smoke, but those who wanted it could
get their money refunded by application ;
at the ticket-office. Those who were pre- ‘
pared to trust him could see the show
u / 0 , OWI . n F Thursday night, when
bed be back with a replacement machine,
The crowd would roll up again on Thurs-
day when, however, the same explosion
would be ringing down the curtain on
a show in a town a hundred miles away.
The detonations were produced by touch-
ing off a double hunger inside the empty
The
y
* * *
e- ~,
blrrab * Doctor’s orders? (B.
1/4/53). Local medico, known generally
as a churchman and strict T.T., lost a
good patient through a school bottle-
drive. His two young sons enthusiastically
ransacked the neighborhood, and stacked
the results of their labors outside the
“That settles it, Walter — I’m not having any !”
kitchen, door. The patient, also a blue-
ribboner, wandered round the back of
the house one day. She saw the stack of
bottles, sniffed disdainfully “Ha, a secret
drinker!” walked away and changed her
doctor.
♦S-
“F.W.”; Tell Irving (B. l/4/’53) that
his drunk’s cushion was still burning in
1943, but it’s out now. At the Common-
wealth Hotel, Innisfail, just after mid-
night, I found its owner in our smoke-
filled communal bedchamber, his head
barely visible amid,the smouldering ruins
of the pillow. I endeavored to waken
him, but he was too far under, so I
extracted the glowing pillow and tried
stamping it out on the floor. Years of
smouldering were not to be so easily
quenched. On the dressing-table stood
half a bottle of gin, and this I recklessly
poured into the gaping innards of the
glow-rimmed mass. It immediately burst
into flames. I scooped it into my arms
(no pub would be burned down while I
lived!) and headed for the toilet.
Behind me a trail of little fires sprang to
life as glowing bundles of kapok fell from
my outstretched arms. I reached my goal
only to find —no water! Nothing could
hold me now! I rushed out again and
heaved the thing over the veranda. It
fell in a vacant lot where dry brambles
grew and then I had a’real fire; one big
enough for a regular fire-fighting outfit
to put out —which they did when some
sane person downstairs, rang them. Back
in the room “Irving’s” friend snored on,
with still enough smoke about to sweeten
his dreams.
%
“Uramao”; “X.M.N.’s” small town
that had 25 bicycles pinched in six
months (B. 25/3/’53) is not singular.
Even in holy Ireland such thefts occur,
lerry Clancy, owner of an old bone-
shaker, was inveigled into the comfort-
able hostelry of Peter Dooley by some
of the “bhoys” of the village. Propping
his bike against the side of the building,
Jerry got so full that he had to be bundled
into a car and taken home. The follow-
ing morning he remembered where he
had been and that his treasured bike had
been left outside. Hurrying to the place,
he found it with its wide handle-bars
spread as if to caress him. Trundling
his way home on the grid, he was passing
a church when he thought he should enter
and give thanks that his property had
been spared. He left the bike alongside
the porch, and, having finished his thanks-
giving, came out to find it gone. And
from that blessed day to this he hasn’t
seen it.
❖ *X* *X*
“Faiz Pies”: Discussion of tram-
courtesy, or lack of it, reminds me,
though I won’t swear it happened on a
Sydney tram. The two haughty old
dames were obviously out to impress,
but the conductor was not impressed. He
called loudly “Move down there, Ma.”
The temperature of the whole tram
dropped; neither old lady moved. The
connie called again in a loud voice,
pointedly addressing the elder of the two
aristocrats as “Ma.” Nothing happened.
The tram rumbled on. Then, in a pene-
trating voice, the elder of the two queens-
in-exile spoke cuttingly to her com-
panion: “Really, my dear, I must be
losing my memory. I can’t for the life
of me ever remember having given birth
to that conductor.”
❖ * ❖
“Mudmajor”; The forms required
from Unk White’s casualty patient (B.
15/4/’53) bring to mind the Heidelberg
pyjamas. Protesting that I was already
wearing pyjamas and that as my home
was near by I would have no laundry
difficulties, I was sternly told that I had
to be issued with pyjamas so that I would
have pyjamas to return on discharge. I
was too weary to argue, but why
couldn’t I have been issued with a tooth-
brush? It would have been much more
convenient to all concerned.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Nirrey”: Successful deals with
swapped cards and marbles had
already encouraged me to think
that my son had a brilliant busi-
ness career ahead of him. Last week-
end he enhanced this belief by announc-
ing that he had started a repair-club for
disabled scooters, trikes and pushalong
toys. He followed the statement by de-
claring: “Nearly all the kids in the street
have paid sixpence to be members.”
Inquiry revealed that the sixpences were
to be used "to purchase nuts, screws and
sundries needed in the repair work. I
later inspected the repair-kit installed in
his backyard cubby-house, while he stood
by munching at a large toffee-apple. My
feelings of satisfaction continued, in fact,
until I went to my tool-box in search of
a spanner, only to discover that my stock
of odd nuts, bolts and screws had
vanished.
A DROP OF SCOTCH
“Tell me what kind o’ a deal ye've done,
Evatt, Evatt ?
WV the ‘Telegraph; ‘Herald’ and the
‘Sun;
And why sae sad gang ye, O ?” —
“O I hae brocht a Depression on,
Granny, Granny;
O I hae brocht a Depression on
That only I can see, O .”
“Depressions don’t blanch your face to
wax,
Evatt, Evatt;
Depressions don’t blanch your face to
wax;
Some other dule ye dree, O.” —
O I stabb’d Owd Bob wi’ the Income
Tax,
Granny, Granny ;
O I stabb’d Owd Bob wi’ the Income
Tax.
Alas, and woe is me, O !”
“And what will ye do wi’ our houses and
ha’,
Evatt, Evatt ?
And our offices, homes and factories ta’,
That were sae fair to see, oh ?”
“I’m. gaen to socialise them a,
Granny, Granny ;
I’m gaen to socialise them a’;
The Platform says it must be, O.”
“And what will ye leave to our bairns
and our wives,
Evatt, Evatt?
And what will ye leave to our bairns and
our wives
When you’re in the Ministree, O ?”
“They can live on promises a’ their lives,
Granny, Granny ;
They can live on promises a’ their lives ;
That’s a’ I’ve got to gie, O.”
“And what will ye leave to your Granny
dear,
Evatt, Evatt?
And what will ye leave to your Granny
dear.
Dear grandson, now tell me, O ?” —
“I’ll tax ye the limit that ye can bear,
Granny, Granny;
I’ll tax ye doon to a shirt o’ hair,
Sic counsels ye gave to me, O !”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
UP-ANCHOR
My summer cottage by the sea
Lured relatives in scores;
They fished and swam and boated there,
While I did all the chores.
Quite soon I sold my loved retreat
(Then what a wail arose!),
But why I did this foolish thing
Not one among them knows.
N.Z.
V. MAY COTTRELL.


“Kingsbro”: Fifteen of us, rationed to
a daily half-cup of water each, overfilled
a ship’s raft near -the entrance to the Gulf
of Aden. On the fourth day we ob-
served another raft, apparently empty,
drifting towards us. I croaked: “There’d
be a bit of a scramble if that turned out
to have fifteen barrels of beer on it.”
From the other end of our raft came:
“Be a bigger bloody scramble if it had
only fourteen barrels.”
<s*
“Uramao”: Plagiarism is no modern
vice. Imagination after one thousand
eight hundred and fifty years hears the
angry voice and sees thfc bristling beard
of Martial, the Latin epigrammatic poet,
slangwanging an individual for plagiaris-
ing him. “Why, simpleton,” he rails, “do
you mix your verses with mine? What
have you to do, foolish man, with writings
that convict you of theft? Why do you
attempt to associate foxes with lions, and
make owls pass for eagles? Though you
had one of Lada’s legs, you would not
be able, blockhead, to run with the other
leg of wood.” That’s the stuff to give ’em.
* ❖ ❖
“Rag”: I am wondering if “Findy”
(B. 8/4/’53) is employed at the ware-
house where, for many years, my partner
and I have purchased glasses for our
concrete-floored milk-bar. One day, when
we were visiting a warehouse, the sales-
man told us a new line of unbreakable
tumblers had been released. “Will they
drop on concrete without breaking?” I
asked doubtfully, and was informed they
would. “Would you be prepared to test
one on your front steps?” asked my
partner, great suspicion in his voice. The
“How about makin' yourself useful by tryin' for some yelloWtail?”
salesman led the way, lifted the tumbler
above his head and let it fall to the steps,
where it crashed into a thousand frag-
ments. Not easily defeated, the sales-
man. produced another sample which he
inspected closely. “This one is perfect,”
he said. “Watch.” We did, and with a
loud crash it completely disintegrated.
This time our laughter was interrupted
by a new voice issuing from the manager’s
near-by window. “What do you think
you’re doing!” he snorted, to which the
flabbergasted salesman replied “I am
only demonstrating these unbreakable
glasses.” “Well, you’re over-demonstrat-
ing them! ”) barked the boss as he
slammed the window. I’ve forgotten
the salesman’s name. I hope it wasn’t
Findy.
“Woe Wun”: Unbreakable things (B.
8/4/’53)? The tale used to be told in
the British Army that the brand of type,-
writers used in orderly-rooms —three-
shift keyboard, patent ribbon entangler
and noise which would drown the sound
of an air-raid —were sold to the War
Office by a cove who walked into the
demonstration-room, threw the type-
writer across and up and down the room
for five minutes, sat down and began
typing. “Even the Army couldn’t use it
more roughly than that,” he suggested.
I don’t know. When we set up our
orderly-room on the beach in Sicily in
1943 we unpacked our “unbreakable”
typewriters and found that they were
also unusable. The Italian machine
which we liberated from a near-by pad-
dock has left a soft spot for that brand
in my heart to this day.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Archaen”; Lionel Barrie gave a faith-
ful picture of what it’s like to be hard-
of-hearing (B. 8/4/’53), but he didn’t
mention the three things which I find
most exasperating. I give first priority
to those members of your own household
who, well aware of your affliction, speak
to you with their heads turned away.
Next come these same people when
they choose to speak to you at times such
as (1) when the bathroom tap is run-
ning ; (2) when you’re drying your ears
with the towel; (3) when the radio is
going full blast. What I miss most is
going to live shows. Unless I can get a
seat in the first three rows of the front
stalls it’s hopeless. All around me people
rock with laughter, but I have no idea
what the funny man on the stage has
said. One day a mumbler came up to
me in the street and repeated his ques-
tion twice. The third time I jotted down
his remark as I heard it: “Mar dill bar
dull allowen ah chundoo.” He then lost
patience and walked off muttering “Oo
liss sahmi blee footoo!” I can decipher
Egyptian hieroglyphs. I can puzzle out
cuneiform inscriptions. I can carry on
a conversation in German, Malay, Poly-
nesian and Pidgin. But I’ve never been
able to make sense of that fellow’s
remark.
“The Chalky”: U.S. publishers are not
the only ones who change the title of
foreign books (B. 8/4/’53). “The Times
Literary Supplement,” reviewing Peyre-
fitte’s Diplomatic Diversions (Les Ambas-
sades in French) referred to the pub-
lishers “inexplicable taste” for altering
titles. The reviewer asserts that The
Embassies would have surely been prefer-
able to a title which sounds like the sub-
heading of a gossip column. Perhaps
the change is not so inexplicable. The
Embassies sounds dull, suggesting heavy
conversation about democracy and Com-
munism. Diplomatic Diversions, on the
other hand, immediately eliminates the
politics, offering instead accounts of
human frailty in high places. Or it
could be a book of scandalous memoirs,
or a series of humorous sketches. The
number of prospective buyers is vastly
increased by a mere change of title,
especially as the book is described as
maliciously funny, and adequately
observant of immorality.
❖ ❖
“Becks”’: So the kids are weighting
themselves now to make the school foot-
ball team (B. 22/4/’53)? A couple of
seasons ago it was the other way round.
There was a weight-for-age limit on
“You needn’t think because you get one of them they’ll
let you in the Abbey.”
aspirants for the junior teams, and the
lads who were on the heavy side for their
years were barred. The system has been
altered now ; too many lads were going
along to the bakehouse, heavily rugged, ■
to “sweat it off” in order to make the
weight.
$ ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Thirty-three years ago I
took extreme pleasure in dallying around
the high-spots of the town with a fair if
fickle flapper whom I used to meet
directly under the big clock suspended
over the assembly platform at Central
Station, Sydney. In common with 95
per cent, of her sex, punctuality was not
her long suit; sometimes the minute-
hand on the clock made more than half
a revolution before she came tripping
along, effusive with excuses, which I
accepted lamely enough, my indignation
melting like magic at the sight of her.
Came the evening when she didn’t show
up at all and though I haunted the pre-
cincts of that timepiece for about a week,
I haven’t set eyes on her lovely person
since. The other day I happened to pass
under the clock again; to be reminded
as though it were yesterday of the anguish
I experienced on that luckless night. As
I hurried for my train I found myself
making a mental calculation (since
proved on paper) and discovered that my
dilatory charmer, now possibly a grand-
mother, was, up to the hour of reckoning.
Leap Years accounted for, exactly
288,483 revolutions of that relentless
minute-hand late. I don’t think there’s
a moral here, unless it is that in relation
to the proverbial tardiness of women,
gradations on public clocks are more
tangible than water passing under bridges.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Alfalfa”: I’ll back our town against
all-comers at the national game of
writing down to the city. In one year we
achieved the following record. The Pro-
gress Association got the policeman
shifted by writing down to town. The
school committee got the teacher shifted
by writing down to town. The
hospital committee had two different
nurses shifted by writing down to town.
‘The Council, although rather out of
things as far as writing down to town
goes, joined in the spirit of the game,
and received the resignation of two
district clerks and one works foreman.
It isn’t that there is any personal ani-
mosity in the game. When the previous
postmaster was transferred we all signed
a petition to the P.M-G. demanding that
he be left here.
“NX Mick”: Anybody want to buy
two hearing-aids, cheap, never been used?
During 1945, my out-moded, cumbersome
hearing-aid was always good for a fiver
from Uncle. So when the Repat. agreed
to look after my ears, and issued the
latest thing in streamlined, lightweight
aids, I thought to raise the fiver once
more, and this time tear up the pawn-
ticket. How did Uncle guess that? In
addition to knocking back the loan, he
also sold me another tenner’s worth of
second-hand aid.
A* ♦♦♦ ❖
“Ann”: The finding of a station account-
book dating back to 1863 and relating to
a mid-western property then owned by
one Nathaniel Connolly gave me some
interesting reading. Among the items
sold from the station store were shirts
at 45., trousers Bs. 6d., a crinoline 135.,
dresses 7s. 6d., beef 4d. a pound. That
the period was well before the no-stock-
ing fashion sent soap shares soaring is
•emphasised by the entry, “stockings 2s.
a pair.” However, conditions have not
changed entirely; the largest single item
of expense in the book reads “Lawyer
£4O 18s. lOd.” •
♦> ❖ ❖
“Ymar”: Misleading titles? A Vic-
torian M.H.R. recently instanced “The
Red Army,” which was borrowed from
Canberra’s film library under the impres-
sion that its subject was Communism.
Actually, it deals with —bed-bugs!
♦> ❖ ❖
“Hyanlo”: We’ve had seven floods
through the district in the last two years,
but apparently the cockies —and their
sons —still have large rolls tucked away.
A school-kid wandered into the garage
today asking for information as to the
price and availability of our utilities.
“£1075 and about six months to wait,”
I told him. “Your Dad want one?” “Oh,
no,” said the youngster, “It’s for me.
Dad says I’d better get a bus of my own
now I’m leaving school, and the six
months wait will just suit, because I’ll
be old enough for a licence then. Here’s
£5O deposit. Mister. Put me on the list.”
♦> ♦♦♦ ❖
“Ennkay”: In 1898 the Red Page pub-
lished two children’s-game songs con-
tributed to refute Victor Daley, who had
written; “Shall we ever have an Aus-
tralian child-literature of song and story
that will supersede the old nursery
favorites, with their northern color and
northern identity? Not for five-hundred
years, I think!” One song ran:
Johnny and Jane and Jack and Lou,
Butler’s Stairs through Woolloomooloo;
Round the Block, and home again!
Heigh, ho! tipsy toe,
Give us a kiss, and away we go.
and the other:
Bake a puddin’
Bake a pie,
Take ’em up to Bondi;
, Bondi wasn’t in,
Take ’em up to black gin;
Black gin took ’em in—
Out goes she!
The second was said to be a “Woolloo-
mooloo classic” and the first, popular at
a “Sydney State-school,” belongs even
more surely to that locality. Are kids
anywhere still singing these or similar
game-songs with an Australian flavor?
THOUGHTS ON A TEST XI TOUR
Soon bats will be “flashing”
And teams will be “clashing,”
While scribes to their trusty
Thesauruses
Will all be resorting
To help with reporting
In wondrously similar choruses.
While pickets are “rattling”
And cricketers “battling”
With grimness in faraway latitudes,
Beware, O my brother.
At home here we’ll smother
In lashins of cliches and platitudes!
High hits will be “lofted”
And bosies be “wafted,”
“Speed merchants” will all bowl with
“devilry”;
Late-cuts will be “sweet” ones
And leg-glances “neat” ones—
O adjectives, on with the revelry !
Either Lindwall or Miller
Must soon be a “killer,”
With young lan Craig “irrepressible.”
At his Oval baptising
’Twould not be surprising
If one shot was termed “effervescible.”
The first slip will “snap” it.
Some flatfoot will “tap” it;
You’ll find “supersonic velocity”
Will mark new-ball bowling.
And hark to extolling
Of batsmen who show “virtuosity
And dear Neville Cardus —
How often he’s jarred us! —
Whose typewriter, from now, will never
rest,
We’ll expect him to liken
A straight drive from Ikin
To blizzard that blows on Mt. Everest.
n.s.w.
S.W.K.


‘The Greatest Name
in the
Battery World”
txib*
BATTERIES
BXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTT.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
EX8.86
PERSONAL ITEMS
Back in frigate Condamine from heav-
ing a couple of thousand four-inch bricks
at Communist shore-batteries and every-
thing else of interest, Robert Cecil Savage
had his first taste of bombarding in
cruiser Australia when the gallant old girl
(25 last Friday) loosed her twin eight-
inchers at Jap-held positions in the s.-w.
Pacific. He had just missed her first
bombardment, at Dakar. From the
cruiser he shifted to destroyers, and has
stayed therein, having been first-lieuten-
ant of the new Anzac before he took
command of Condamine. Brother Alister
is also Navy, and had the distinction of
having served in destroyer Glowworm
(which rammed the German heavy-
cruiser Hipper in one of the war’s most
glorious actions), and in cruiser Canberra.
He left that ship when she got hers at
Savo Island.
Backstage with Othello:
All the world might be a stage, and the
Sydney Tivoli stage is Roy Parker’s world at
the moment, but the Stratford Players’ stage-
manager doesn’t rate a dressing-room. So
The Bulletin talked to him in the leading
lady’s—but for Parker, Prior and interviewer,
otherwise vacant. At 26 one of the youngest
in the game, Parker is responsible for a host
of things, including lighting, music, discipline
backstage, drape-controlling and all the show’s
sets, which, with the exception of a drum and
wind-machine, the Avon players brought witn
STAGE MANAGER
them. One of the secrets of Othello’s smooth
production is a Mandrake-affair of light-switches
which Parker, from his prompt-corner, uses to
transmit his wishes all over the place, from the
opposite end of the stage to high up in the
flies. Members of even such a proficient com-
pany as this sometimes go “dry.” Then Parker,
following the play assiduously from his comer,
“beams” his voice to the troubled one. Quite
an art, this, one which has been helped
immeasurably through his own training at the
Royal Academy of Dramatic Art. In cahoots
with Parker (the company always carries two
stage-managers), Antony Riddell is a Mel-
burnian who’s been in England several years,
and stage-managed for the company’s last two
seasons at the Memorial Theatre. It took the
pair eight hours to range Othello’s settings.
Due for retirement this week, H. E.
Camm, the most abused man in Mel-
bourne. It started in 1930, when he
became Deputy-Director of Meteoro-
logical Services, Victoria, but whether it
was merited is another matter. Camm
began with the Commonwealth Weather
Service in 1910, and after War I went
to Adelaide, where the weather is said
to be more reliable than in Melbourne,
In the Kaiser’s shindy he served with the
24th Battalion and was mentioned in
despatches. In War II he was a planner
for the Army’s forecasting service, with
rank of wing-commander. Prophesying
the weather was enormously important,
as air-raids and invasion movements
depended a good deal on the weather.
Camm has had 40 years of dictating
Australian weather and is now going to
submit to it quietly.
A giant was missing from the Anzac
march in Melbourne—Henry Homberg,
of the Soldier Settlement Commission.
Standing 6ft. sin in his socks, he was
down for a major operation the day
before the march.
“Feng-Shui” on a marine disaster:
’ This month 41 years ago the Titanic struck
an iceberg on her maiden voyage from
Southampton to New York and sank in
hours. There were many heroes of the disaster,
most of them unrecorded. One was David
Sarnoff, now president of the Radio Corpora-
tion of America. As a 21-year-old wireless
operator on the roof of the Wanamaker store
in New York, Sarnott received the message:
“S.S. Titanic ran into iceberg, sinking fast.”
He stuck to his post for three days and three
nights without sleep Until the name of the last
survivor had been relayed. Another hero seldom
mentioned was W. T. Stead, the most famous
journalist of his day. Told there was a place
for him in a boat," Stead said: “I am an old
man and my life is pretty well finished anyhow.
Let the women or children have it.” There
was a tremendous outburst of public indignation
after the disaster. Joseph Conrad weighed in
with a diatribe against the modern tendency
to sacrifice lives for speed' grandiloquence and
profit—ships were getting too big, their walls
were getting too thin and machinery was getting
beyond the capacity of human beings to handle.
I remember the affair so well because I was
on duty at a Bornean cable-station when all
the messages mentioned came through. Conrad’s
essay was one of those transmitted. I wonder
what he would think of the jet age!
Among the names of aviators who
have been awarded the Oswald Watt
Medal for distinguished contributions to
flying are those of Kingsford Smith and
Bert Hinkler. To these has been added
Squadron-Leader P. G. Fisher. Last
year, flying somewhat the same route as
those eminent trail-blazers, Fisher flew a
Canberra-jet from’ England to Darwin,
though in somewhat different time —just
over 23 hours. Also like Kingsford Smith
and Hinkler, he was killed (last year)
in an air accident.
“Macnell”: Eleven years ago this
month Commander William Thomas
Aldis Moran (known universally as
“Porky”), watched from destroyer
Vampire’s bridge as the British carrier
Hermes went down flaming under a load
of bombs from Jap dive-bombers in the
Bay of Bengal. A few months earlier
he had been in a similar screening posi-
tion with Prince of Wales and Repulse.
Moran sheared clear of the wreck of
Hermes, increased to full speed, and pre-
pared to fight for his life. Vampire
lasted a few minutes. Moran was last
seen on his shattered bridge; his last
order was “Abandon ship.” Nine
stokers, trapped in the burst-open boiler-
rooms, stayed with him. The other day
H.M. cruiser Ceylon hove-to near the
spot. Two midshipmen dropped a wreath
into the sea, a Royal Marine firing-party
loosed three valedictory volleys, and the
Last Post sang across the sea.
The other day The Bulletin met in
the flesh, in his own Canobolas (N.S.W.)
orchard, L. S. Loewenthal, a great
battler for the man-on-the-land by word
and by deed. A wiry, hardworking
orchardist by day, by night he writes to
newspapers, reads avidly of anything to
do with politics and country affairs, and
restlessly ponders on the future of Aus-
tralian rural industries. Born on the
Clarence River (N.S.W.), he trained as
a metallurgist and worked at Broken Hill,
where he got tangled in a stone-crusher;
after that he headed back to the North
Coast and settled at Nimbin, on the
Richmond, where he was the first man to
use milking-machines, though travel from
his dairy-farm was by packhorse. He
married, became interested in politics,
and organised farmers’ associations; it
was he who formally moved that the
Country party be born as a political
entity. Shifting to Nashdale, near Lake
Canobolas, he took on more rural
organisation; and if for nothing else his
name should be remembered with grati-
tude by primary producers for the reason
that, with four sons at the war, he went
to jail rather than kowtow to the grotesque
and tyrannous Apple and Pear Board.
This almost bankrupted him, but today
he is fully on his feet again, and prepared
to mix it with any bureaucrat who shows
up. Loewenthal is utterly intolerant of
the fumblings and shufflings of jacks-in-
office who stand in the way of increased
food-production and its distribution.
Good luck to him!
John Colless first appeared on this
page almost exactly 10 years ago, when,
an A.I.F. captain, he won a deserved
M.C. in the Wau-Salamaua campaign.
He had been in the Middle East, and
on return to Australia was picked as one
of the few to form the nucleus of the Ist
Mountain Battery. After the Buna and
Salamaua shows Colless was taken out of
the line and sent down for parachute
training. On the reader staff of the
“S. M. Herald” when he took to reading
gun-ranges, he advanced with such com-
petence in journalism that his paper
loaned him to, A.A.P.-Reuter to cover
the Jap war-crimes trials in Rabaul, and,
in 1950-51, the Korean war. Out of those
last-named experiences came that first-
class Bulletin feature “Miss Kim’s
Baby.” Now, after 20 years with the
“Herald,” Colless shifts his lean, serious
length to the Four A’s (the Australian
Association of Advertising Agencies),
as public-relations officer.
“Fitz”: Probably no other writer in Australia
but Alec Chisholm could have written “A
Strange Bird is Found,” the fascinating story
of the finding of the lyre-bird in Australia,
which appears in this issue. An article of
considerable ornithological importance, it reveals
much careful historical research and a deep
love of natural history. The author’s love of
birds dates back to when he was a boy at
Maryborough (Vic.), where he roamed the
ironbark hills in search of the crested bellbird,
which he fondly calls his totem. As a boy he
also listened raptly to the stirring stories told
by old gold-fossickers on the diggings outside
the town, which inspired an interest in the
history of his country. His reputation as a
naturalist and historian is established by the
many fine books he has written on bird life
and history. Who’s Who in Australia lists more
than a dozen, beginning with Bird Seeking in
Queensland, published in 1922, written when
he was a young journalist on the Brisbane
“Daily Mail” and ending with News from
Nature, published in 1948, and including such
works as Birds and Green Places, Bird Wonders
of Australia and that splendid book Strange
New World, the story of John Gilbert, the
naturalist, who was engaged by that great
birdman John Gould as an assistant in connec-
tion with his monumental work Birds of Aus-
tralia. Gilbert was killed in 1845 while on a
journey of exploration with Leichhardt, and
almost everything that is known about him we
owe to Chisholm’s researches. Many honors
have been conferred on Chisholm, among them
the Australian Natural History Medallion
BIRD EXPERT
awarded (for the first time) in 1938 for his dis-
covery in England of valuable papers relating
to John Gould and John Gilbert, which
Chisholm presented to the Mitchell Library,
Sydney. He has also edited the “Queensland
Naturalist,” the “Victorian Naturalist” and
the “Emu,” the official organ of the Royal
Australasian Ornithological Union. A journalist
by profession, he has edited various Melbourne
and Sydney dailies and weeklies, is recognised
as the authority on the life and works of C. J.
Dennis and E. J. Banfield, and has been for
some years editing the forthcoming new and
enlarged edition of The Australian Encyclo-
pedia for Angus and Robertson. His recreation
is “idling in green places.”
Coventrated hereunder, Geoffrey
Gerrard is, at 46, one of the youngest
presidents of the S. Australian Chamber
of Manufactures. Qualification for the
post stems from his direction of Gerard
Industries, Ltd., which large manufactur-
ing concern he founded in 1931. At one
time or another executively connected
with most of his State’s industrial organi-
MANUFACTURERS' PRES.
sations, particularly electrical, he finds
time, as well, to vice-captain Kooyonga
Golf Club.
A long and remarkably assiduous
service to the Church of England ended
when Mrs. Edith Cranswick died in
Sydney. Wife of a canon herself,
and for 60 years a devoted church
worker, she mothered three sons, two of
whom became bishops. Geoffrey F.
Cranswick, appointed Bishop of Tasmania
in 1943, had been before that organising
secretary of the Church Missionary
Society (of which his mother was
appointed a life-governor) in Canter-
bury, Chichester and Rochester (Eng.).
He took his B.A. degree at Sydney Uni-
versity in 1916. Brother George Har-
vard Cranswick (of The King’s School,
Sydney University and Oxford) had ex-
horted the faithful at Brighton (Eng.), in
India, Chatswood (N.S.W.) and Bendigo
(Vic.) before becoming Bishop of Gipps-
land in 1917. He held that post for a
quarter of a century. Chairman of the
Australian Board of Missions between
1942-49, he’s latterly been Commissioner
for the Australian Council of the World
Council of Churches. The grand old
lady used to make annual visits to her
sons; she took to travelling by plane
when she was 80.
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 54, Peter Brown, two-war Digger
and employee of West Australian Newspapers.
He won the D.C.M., M.M. and Croix de
Guerre in France, and left with the first convoy
for the Middle East in the second war. On
return to civil life he was a strenuous and
consistent worker for crippled children.
At Gumeracha (SA.), at 76, John Beavis
Randell, who, born in the district, son of a
pioneer therein, stayed there to sit on just about
every civic body of the rich fruit-growing area;
as well as to represent it in Parliament in the
early ’twenties. He had been president of his
State’s Fruit Marketing Association,
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 71, Colonel Charles
Walls, for 55 years a member of the Salvation
Army and a well-known padre in the Kaiser’s
War, in which he got M.C. and two broken
legs. Sometime in charge of the Red Shield
Hut at Etaples, France, when he retired in 1947
he was 2 I/C of the Salvos in New Zealand.
In Hobart, at 63, Colin McKenzie Pitt,
Secretary for Lands and Surveyor-General since
1940. Among his achievements in 30 years of
public service in Tasmania were the survey and
construction-supervision of the Hobart-West
Coast road over the difficult 50 miles between
Derwent Bridge and Queenstown, and the con-
struction of the well-used tourist-road to the
top of Mt. Wellington. Aerial photography,
introduced under his administration, is produc-
ing big savings in Government survey expenses.
He was made an 0.8. E. in 1933.
\


JOURNEY’S END


ABORIGINALITIES
“Darg”: Herb was describing the recent
funeral of his fellow-abo, down-and-out
Jackie Whiting. When they came to bury
him in the little bush cemetery, it seemed,
they found the coffin too long for the
prepared grave, so they reposed the
departed at a slight angle. “They buried
him all-same paw-paw,” he said.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Horseless Horseman”: In western
Victorian waters silver gulls have for the
moment given up trailing ships for their
tucker. Instead, as a giant white cloud
they cover the open paddocks from Gee-
long through Colac to Port Fairy, feast-
ing on millions of crickets. Odd gulls
1 saw took their prey helicopter-fashion,
but mostly they just walked along and
pecked ’em off the ground. In amongst
the seabirds-cwm-landlubbers are dotted
the maggies, though further inland
armies of white-faced herons, mountain
ducks, ibises and crows are dealing with
the invasion. It is the third major cricket
plague in memory in the Cabbage
Garden’s Western District, but smaller
ones are not uncommon. In 1939 a
Norwegian tramp arrived at Williamstown
with her decks black with the dead
hoppers. They had even eaten the carpet
in the skipper’s cabin. When the vessel
was passing Wilson’s Promontory the
night before the place was ablaze with a
bushfire and the black insects came off
shore in such numbers the crew had to
use shovels and fire-hoses to try to keep
the decks clear.
* * ♦ «.
“Millicent”: I haven’t seen the aqua-
lung outfit mentioned by “Archaen” (B.
8/4/’53), but I find it difficult to believe
that a man can descend to 200 ft. or more
equipped only with air-bottles and a thin
sponge-rubber suit. I take it the suit is a
kind of one-piece affair, and includes a
head-mask with goggles. The ears must
be totally protected, otherwise at 60ft. or
so the drums would burst —a most painful
experience. At 200 ft. the water-pressure
is almost 901 b. per sq. inch, and against
this pressure the man must exhale and
inhale. This means that the pressure
inside his lungs must be nearly the same,
which in turn means that excess nitrogen
is being dissolved in his blood in exactly
the same way as it is with the conven-
tionally-clad diver. Therefore he too,
after an hour’s submersion, would have
to make a carefully-controlled “staged”
ascent at the end of a line from the
surface, in order to avoid the too-sudden
release of the dissolved gas into the
blood-vessels, and the consequent excru-
ciating and often fatal ‘‘bends.”
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Lemuel G.”: Let me advance the
proposition that sheep-dogs—perhaps
through working so closely for so long
with man —can develop a sense of humor,
and cite the old red kelpie I once owned
to prove it. Advancing in years, Ginga
decided that the younger tykes could
take over the spectacular but strenuous
job of steadying the lead, while he re-
tired* 1 to plod at the tail of the mob.
Though he appreciated the leisurely life,
he apparently found it a trifle dull, and
cast about in his mind for some means
of brightening it. The result was —and
I hadn’t the heart to roar at him for it
—that occasionally he’d dart at some
lagging old beldame, and fasten his jaws
firmly about her hock, but never break-
ing the skin. He would give a
horrible and bloodthirsty growl, "severely
shattering his victim’s already-jangled
nerves; and if, as the old girl shoved
and jostled her way to safety in the
middle of the mob, his expression wasn’t
one of sardonic amusement, then I’ve
never seen it. He’d then look up at me
as if to say “Well, that rocked
her!” and resume his plodding. As I
say, I couldn’t chide him —there were
plenty of times when I’d have liked to
do the same thing, and I think I’d have
bitten a darned sight harder.
♦ ♦ ♦ «
“5.4. E.”; When it comes to crossing
water the jumbuck certainly can be a
very cussed animal. We had come to the
foot of a steep scarp, known locally as
“The Jump-Up,” in the basalt country
north of the Flinders River (Qld.), and
I was one of a party of sufferers with
5000 ewes on tour. Our aim was to urge
them to cross a creek about six or eight
feet wide, six inches deep, with perfectly
clear water over a rocky bottom. Un-
fortunately for us there was a small plank
"I wish you'd stop using my toothbrush — it's not hygienic."
footbridge at the crossing, just wide
enough for one of the pests at a time —
and via that bridge was the only way
they’d cross. Yells, Sailings with branches,
and hurled rocks were useless. In single
file the whole 5000 minced across, and
took just about half a day to do what
should have occupied half an hour at
most. And before somebody weighs in
with the reply that we should have
blocked the bridge when a few had
crossed so that the others would rush
through the water to their mates, let me
“Adenoids.”
state that that would have been contrary
to all the evil principles of the beasts.
Those already over would have galloped
back to the side they came from, and
we’d have been right where we started.
* * ♦ ♦
“The Bunyip”: That hill on the road
to Tumbarumba, where “Old-timer”
boiled his engine (B. l/4/’53) was Car-
boona Gap, and the house on the right
near the top where he was shadowed by
a couple of suspicious tykes was prob-
ably the home built by one of the pioneer
families of the Upper Murray. It wasn’t
the first time the place had been circled
by silent scouts whose intentions were
suspect; years ago I listened enthralled
to a patriarch of that clan telling how,
as a wee chap, he had watched his mother
keep armed guard when hostile blacks
were about. Across the road and in the
gully there used to be a small mine
maintained by 8.H.P.; it was rich in
lead but was really wanted for the fluor-
spar found with the metal; the First
World Scrap had interrupted supplies of
the flux from S’Africa. Last time I
descended Carboona Gap was in a rabbit-
truck after a Sunday cricket match at
Tumba. Stumps bad been drawn at
6 p.m., but by the time the match was
finished to everybody’s satisfaction in
the ,pub it was about ten; so when we
did hit the road it was with a series
of joyous leaps and bounds over the
pretty rough road. Our engine spouted
steam, too, but there was no bucket to
be had; so the tank at Manus school,
containing only a few inches of water,
was carried from its platform, balanced
on the gatepost while the rest of the crew
climbed through, held fairly steadily
while its tap was steered into our radi-
ator, and then conscientiously returned.
Diving down the Gap even the vocalists
froze into silence; then just when we
reached comparative safety on the flat by
Jingellic Creek a fox ran across the
lights and the driver yelled something that
wasn’t Tallyho and swung the truck off
the road and into the fallen timber to
“Run the blank down.” We all lived.
* ♦ * *
“Kelms”: Central Australian pastor-
alists are now thinking highly of Buffel-
grass, and at least two of them are said
to be toying with the idea of sowing it
from aircraft. On past performances
this grass could put stock on what is now
desert- and spinifex-country. Buffel-
grass was first found growing around
the stock-quarantine yards at Port Hed-
land somewhere about World War I
days; and after it had become estab-
lished there men who recognised its re-
markable qualities traced its origin to
some feed brought in with a consignment
of Indian camels. As it became
acclimatised it spread inland and along
the coast, thrived under drought condi-
tions and even grew around salt lakes.
Station-owners began to inquire, after it,
and an old Port Hedland identity, Joe
Moore, went into the seed business. At
the height of his venture he had every
kid and half the natives in Hedland col-
lecting seed and he was selling to most
of the inland stations. It will grow with
about 30 points of rain, and has a protein
content about equal to that of lucerne.
But there’s a catch; before you sow seed
you must first gather it, and so far no
one has improved on old Joe’s method.
* * * *
“Edx”: Chasing the ’weight out from
Coolgardie (W.A.), George came upon a
stand of timber the like of which he’d
never seen before. The trees were about
the same size as the surrounding gimlet,
and had the same shiny, greenish, skin-
like bark, but the trunk, lacking the
graceful clockwise-spiralled contour
peculiar to gimlet, was as round as a
candle. It couldn’t be a salmon-gum
cross, so he came to the conclusion he
had stumbled on a new species of euca-
lypt. Scientifically inclined, George set
about mapping the area, which, he soon
discovered, turned out to be belt- or
strip-like in plan, slightly curved, and of
indefinite length, apparently extending
right through the gimlet forest. He cut
down a sample tree and passed on, mar-
velling at the peculiar distribution of the
new species, which, he mused, would in
all probability be named after him. It
was not till he had got back to town
that enlightenment came. Gazing at the
devastated township he suddenly re-
membered the big willy-willy that had
passed him by a couple of weeks before,
and he stood aghast at the thought of
the terrible force of that cyclonic storm.
It had destroyed half a fair-sized town
and must have unwound just about every
gimlet tree in its path.
JUNGLE ROUNDS
The stars look down on the silent camps, as
the Island lies asleep,
The jungle is full of moving things that rustle
and grope and creep
Among the palms and the kunai-grass; and,
along the treacherous track,
My footsteps are muffled by constant mud,
greasy and sticky and black.
I dare not smoke or flash my torch, as I stumble
and slide and slip
With many a trailing vine to scratch, or an
unseen root to trip;
Or cannon into a fallen free and curse beneath
my breath . . .
While the creeping things go rustling on . . .
and the jungle croons of death.
The blanket of blackness closes in as I hold
to my upward path;
All heavy and hot, like a stifling shroud, or
an outsized Turkish bath,
And seeming as though it were solid enough
to be slashed with a jungle-knife . . .
A wild-pig’s squeal cuts the quivering air like
a note on the Devil’s fife.
The Thompson appears to weigh a ton and my
hands are clammy and wet;
As the endless track winds endlessly on, my
shirt becomes soaked with sweat;
Away from the camps and up the hill in the
steaming tropic night
I trudge along under velvet skies all be-jewelled
with points of light.
The track dips down to a gully ,deep where there
is a stream to wade;
The airstrip clearing opens out, with shadows
of darker shade . . .
The shadows become the hangars black; and
the aircraft parked in rows.
I hear the snick of a rifle-bolt . . . and the
sentry’s “Halt! Who goes?”
The Word-of-the-Day, in guarded tones, to the
challenge my swift retort;
I drop down into the sandbagged pit, as the
sentry makes report.
I check his arms and sign the book as we
share a billy of tea
With the jungle sounds for company, and the
thud of a gun at sea.
Throughout the strip, from post to post, I make
my cautious round ...
From the shadows deep rings the challenge
sharp; and backed by the awesome sound
Of the warning click of the thrust-home bolt;
and the bayonet faintly shines,
When arms are sloped as they get the Word, as I
move down the hangar-lines.
The aircraft loom beneath the trees; in each
dispersal-bay
Their black and canvas-hooded shapes, like
evil birds-of-prey,
Are crouching, waiting for the dawn ... all
sinister and still . . .
They make one think of deadly snakes; all
poised to strike . . . and kill.
Among these Birds of Death I go, to check
the canopies locked.
The canvas covers tied and tight, the rudders
and ailerons chocked.
I sigh my relief and wipe my brow with a
sleeve as heavy as lead . . .
The Orderly Officer’s rounds are done . . . and
I can go back to bed!
I wearily climb the upward trail, recross the
rushing stream;
The inky darkness swallows me up as I make
for the distant gleam
Of. the single, tiny and shrouded light which
marks the end of my tramp;
A beacon, set like a pilot star, to guide me
back to pur camp.
I halt as I reach the bend in the track, where
the rock-strewn river flows,
With a humble salute and a silent prayer, as
the night-wind softly blows
From a tropical sea, where it croons a dirge
for those who are sleeping still
Whera a growing forest of crosses lie, on the
Hopes of this lonely hill.
VICTORIA.
K. D. MACKENZIE (EX R.A.A.F.).


“G. Elberg”; Surprised that Oliver
Filter in his iiiteresting article on Marble
Bar (B. 1/4/’53) said nothing about the
geological freak (spread across the Coon-
gan River) from which the town takes
its name. The “bar” is not marble, but
jasper, in layers of cream, grey and pink,
resembling the layer-cake once popular
at the afternoon-teas of suburbia. It is
harder than granite, yet the Coongan
has in the course of centuries bored its
way through. This great deposit bears
no resemblance to the surrounding
country’s rock, and appears to have been
heaved up from below.
* * * ♦
“Jeanette L.”: My dog being addicted
to the suicidal habit of trying to chew
chunks out of the tyres of speeding cars
and trucks if allowed to run loose, 1 tried
putting him on a leash, tying the other
end to the grid and taking him for a run.
Before we’d gone 100 yards Gremlin
decided that it was his job to tow the
bike. Before we’d covered 200 yards I
was stopped by an upraised hand:
“Don’t you know it’s illegal to use a
dog as a draught animal?” the killjoy
said severely. “You ought to be ashamed
of yourself! A big girl like you making
this poor dog pull you about. It’s
deliberate cruelty!” In vain did I plead
that Gremlin enjoyed the outings and
had to be stopped from going too fast;
he also refused to believe that towing the
bike was the dog’s idea, not mine.
“Balshag”: There was never any
“man-engine” (B. 11/3/’53) in the Wal-
laroo and Moonta district of S.A., but
there were five large Cornish pumping-
engines, four of them 60in. and the other
an 80in.-diameter cylinder by 10ft. stroke.
The big fellow was imported from Corn-
wall in 1864 at a cost of £30,000. Its
beam weighed 30 tons, cylinder 20 tons
and the balance-box carried a load of
from 45 to 50 tons. Diameter of steam-
pipe was 16in., pump 14in., and the
vertical pump-rod was a 12in. balk. In
addition there was over a mile of hori-
zontal rods at surface, known as the
“flat-rods,” which connected with and
operated pump-rods in other shafts.
Burra Coppermine had a similar engine
of the same dimensions, and there were
smaller ones of the same type at Bird-
in-Hand, Callington and Balliannah mines
in the Adelaide hills. The draught-
engine, as it is generally known in Corn-
wall, was James Watt’s original inven-
tion, the steam acting on one side of the
piston only.
♦ * • *
“Bass”: “Lemuel G.” omits the
feature for which snakewood was
most valued in nor-Westralia (B. 1 /4/’53)
—its smokelessness. For this reason it
was sought by pearlers as firewood for
the cook-pots on luggers, where smoke
might be drawn into the compressor and
sent down to the diver. Snakewood pro-
duced coals and heat only. A favorite
place for collecting it used to be on the
Montebellos. But a man in search of
a good burning wood needn’t go that far
afield. Mallee roots are, of course,
famous. What isn’t so well known is
that gimlet beats mallee hollow, and
wodgil’s better still. In fact, practically
any wood that grows in the W.A. wheat-
belt is good, and it has the advantage
that it will burn while it’s still half-green.
A big salmon-gum can be split for the
stove three weeks after it’s felled —as
compared with, say, a jarrah, which is
still green a few inches from the bark
after five years on the ground. To see a
really good blaze, watch a clearer putting
through a burn less than six months after
the chop-down. A fire will go through a
few hundred acres, and if the logs have
been arranged correctly all that’s left
after a few hours will be a grey ash
covering the ground. That’s when the
clearer makes his money, and it’s where
he gets burnt if he doesn’t watch his step.
Walking over that ash it’s impossible
to tell where a stump has been, and you
can sink half-way to the knee in hot ash.
That’s why Westralian clearers never lace
up their boots they might want to kick
them off in a hurry.
“Swelpme”: “Gulliver” asks “Whence
comes this notion, prevalent on the N. S.
Wales coast, that scaleless fish are sudden
death if eaten?” (B. 1/4/’53), Well,
unless my Sunday-school teacher deceived
me, it came from the Good Book—in
Deuteronomy, I fancy. That makes us
N. S. Welshers a particularly pious lot.
When the sardonic laughter from neigh-
boring States has abated, I’d like to ask
the question : But is the notion really
so universal? The leather-Johnnie has
no scales, but I’ve never seen him spumed
on that account, either as leather-jacket
or the classy name he gets in fish-shops:
“butter-fish.” Rock-toads have no scales,
either, but no knowledgable person eats
them; one unfortunate New Australian
died in agony recently because he hadn’t
been warned that the flesh is deadly
poisonous. A great many people won’t
eat skate (stingray flaps); still, every
time a local shop displays the scaleless
steaks the supply falls short of the
demand. As for ribbon-fish —don’t talk
to me about them ! After three biteless
days fishing in Crooked River, Gerroa
(N.S.W.), I caught a sizeable eel. Know-
ing my long-haired mate’s aversion to
eating “slimy eels,” I told a, white lie.
“A ribbon-fish?” she repeated. “Can
you eat them?” I assured her they were
both edible and delicious, and she de-
parted elated, bearing the meal-to-be..
But when I arrived at the tent only one
plate was laid. “I asked the man in the
next tent was it edible,” came the
greeting. “He couldn’t seem to make up
his mind whether you are a liar or just a
hopeless dope.”
“J.J.A.”: The Children of Israel were
commanded not to eat scaleless fish
the law was recorded in 1495 b.c. at
Sinai, in Lev. 11, V 10 and 11. “And
all that have not fins and scales in the
seas, and in the rivers.... they shall be
an abomination unto you.. ..ye shall
not eat of their flesh.”
* * * *
'Gravelsnatcher”: That plankton
which “gives off a milky glow as a result
of the natural luminosity exuded at
mating, times” (B. 1 /4/’53) will have
accounted for one of the most striking
natural phenomena I’ve seen. On the
way to the Middle East our ship ploughed
through a belt of vivid luminosity esti-
mated to be roughly half a mile wide.
There were two big ships in our convoy,
travelling about a quarter of a mile apart
at night, and while they were passing
through that belt they were both lit up.
As plankton are by far the most
numerous inhabitants of this globe there
would have been plenty of them to pro-
vide that display ; but why was it con-
fined to that comparatively narrow belt?
Wouldn’t it be more logical to assume
that there would be a lesser illumination
spread over a wider area? Or would
the mating instinct draw into that narrow
“But you DEMANDED a glass of water and two ospreys, sir."
strip all the plankton for scores of miles
around?
« ♦ ♦ ♦
“Gunidj”: Beside the fig-tree in my
garden is a small slab of stone with
“Grandpa” engraved on it. It does not
mark the last resting-place of an aged
relative; my kids erected it to the memory
of a black Orpington rooster. By all the
rules of poultry-farming I should have
killed him and replaced him with a young
bird, but I didn’t have the heart to do
it. He was gallantry personified. He’d
scratch away hour after hour, but seldom
ate any titbits himself; he always called
up a hen and let her have the grub or
beetle. He never dozed in the daytime;
but stood on guard. Many a time his
alertness saved one of his harem from
sudden death by giving a warning cry
which sent the hens flying towards the
house when a fox appeared, but at last
one- managed to get close without being
spotted. The commotion made me look
up, to see the hens flying for their lives
with Grandpa in the rear. I jumped
for the rifle I kept handy, but before I
could pick it up the fox made a spring
at the nearest hen. The next instant old
Grandpa turned and flew at him. Taken
by surprise, the fox dodged him and the
hens got away. Grandpa whipped
around and flew at the fox a second time,
but this time there was a quick snap,
a cloud of feathers and a headless
“He's just read 'Ivanhoe at the mission library."
rooster kicking around on the ground.
My shot missed, but the fox remembered
an urgent appointment elsewhere. I
wanted to poison the carcass and even
the score by using it for fox-bait, but
the youngsters wouldn’t hear of it. Thus
the memorial to the very flower of
feathered chivalry.
* * * *
“Plankton”: I had long since ceased
to be amazed at the names which people
confer on their roof-trees, not even at
Nokkarda, which turned out to be the
home of a deaf man; but Euplectella,
I confess, rocked me. Dismissing the
literal translation from the Latin, which
might be rendered “Bravo, little plait!”
I could only assume that it referred to
the marine organism so-named. The
euplectella is one of the most useful
objects I have seen. It is something to
marvel at that a lowly form of composite
life consisting of simple cells such as this
siliceous sponge could produce a support-
ing skeleton of superlative beauty.
Imagine a curved tube, say Bin. long by
2in. in diameter, diminishing slightly in
width to the opposite extremity. This is
constructed entirely of minute translucent
six-sided spicules built up to form a fine
lace-like network, much resembling clear
spun glass in appearance. The namer of
the house might, of course, have been a
marine biologist paying a nice compli-
ment to the fairylike beauty of his missus,
but I ha’e me doots.
♦ * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Bees were anathema to
Mat, and he must have been the same
to them. You could take six-to-four
about any bee within a quarter-mile
making a straight drive for Mat, Bees
were the only living things in all Aus-
tralia which could scare him, and he was
scared of nothing dead. So when we
walked through the little park in Forbes
(N.S.W.) and a swarm suddenly appeared
overhead it was no wonder Mat went
through the hedge, over the road and into
the yard of the Vandenberg hotel. Nor
is it any wonder that he grabbed from
the clothes-line the first thing he saw
and wrapped it round his head until he
got inside the pub, under cover. Then he
took the garment off, grinned in abase-
ment and said, “Well, a flamin’ bee ain’t
very big, but it’s the only thing can make
me hide behind a woman’s skirt.”
* * * *
“K.”: Not long ago an American
newspaper reported with joy from
some hill-billy region the long-awaited
news-story of a man biting a dog, and
now a Baltimore newspaper reports that
one of its citizens has been shot by a
rabbit. The facts stated m this incredible
performance are that one Mr. Julius
Monroe went to sleep leaving his .22 rifle
lying on a chair near his bed and
apparently loaded, cocked and pointing
straight at himself. The rabbit, a pet of
his which apparently had the run of the
room, stepped on the trigger and fired
the piece, getting Mr. Monroe through
the shoulder. Or so Mr. Monroe said ;
and the only other witness did not con-
tradict him. Maybe it would have been
as much as a pet’s life was worth to call
him a liar. Of course, both, of them may
have been in the pay of Mr. Ripley.
THE GYMEA
I have come through the grey and purple
distances
where the little fires of the Ghristmas-bells were
left, -
and the sandstone cliff burst into a rose ot
flame . ,
where the tall gymea stood burning in its clert.
And although I lie by the golden hair of the fire
leaping as the night wind comes up from the
south, ~
that spear-tall flower becomes a dark-haired gin
who has a crimson petal for her mouth.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.
BULLETS ON THE MURRAY
The old Murray lately gave up one of
its secrets —a rotting home-made coffin
containing a skeleton with four bullets
in the skull... bullets of a calibre favored
by pistol- and rifle-makers of the
’eighties.
It was found near the junction of
Ulupna Creek and the river, out of
Cobrarb, and there’s speculation about
bushrangers and, needless to say, the
insinuation that this was a Kelly Gang
victim, it being popularly supposed that
the Kellys crossed the river about there
on their ride to Jerilderie and back.
A likely possibility is that the bones
are aboriginal. Not a few natives were
killed along the Murray in the old days,
and there would be nothing surprising
—such was the religious outlook of some
pioneers—in the body being placed in a
coffin.
Between Albury and Swan Hill (close
to 500 river miles) were the crossing-
places of the old days, and between those
places the first settlements ran along the
banks. Though Euston is the oldest
town on the Murray, it was always iso-
lated until recent times. Aboriginal
burial-grounds are numerous in that area
—present writer ran across two within a
quarter-mile of each other and contain-
ing dozens of skeletons near Barham —
and many a white stockman, swagman,
drunk, fisherman, fugitive vanished in
the scrubs on the N.S.W. side or the
swamps on the Victorian side.
Thirty years ago isolated graves, with
wooden rails around them, were com-
mon along the river. Their wooden
rails have rotted away or been burnt, or
carried off in floods and their mounds
long since levelled, but their bones are
still there, for the dry, slightly alkaline
soil close to the river is a good preserva-
tive of bones.
Few of those who find them bother to
wonder whether they are of whites or
blacks, and, bush people having a special
reverence for bones, they are usually
reburied somewhere close by.
■But those four bullets in the Cobram
skeleton make it important, for it is
possible that a search of old records
would bring the reward of another piece
of Murray history —of which there has
been extraordinary neglect.
C.S.


New
Money Making
Opportunity
available Today
The N.S.W. Electricity Commission’s £1,000,000 Power Loan
guarantees you £4/15/- annually for each £lOO you invest. You
can gain this Government-guaranteed interest for 7 to 12 years.
It’s simply a matter of deciding whether you want your high
interest rate to continue for the shorter or longer period.
Every £lOO will earn £33/5/- interest in 7 years, or £57/-/-
over 12 years. You gain the same highly profitable rate of 4f
per cent, whether your investment is £5O or £5OOO Compare
this with ordinary bank interest.
The Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.,
Queensland and Tasmania.
Ask for a Prospectus and application form. They’re available
at—
• All Commonwealth Bank branches,
• the Commission’s Offices,
• or from your Stockbroker.
Assets valued at £75,000,000 also back every investment in the
N.S.W. ELECTRICITY COMMISSION
£4-15-0 per cent.
POWER LOAN
Underwritten by lan Potter & 'Co., Members of The Stock Exchange of
Melbourne, this Loan will close not later than 12th May, 1953.
Safe and efficient
Business and Property
Management for persons
travelling abroad
When travelling abroad, leave your affairs here in
the efficient hands of the Permanent Trustee
Company. The Company handles all types of
management; it will supervise properties (city or
rural), arrange for collection of rents, pay rates,
taxes and insurances, control repairs, attend to your
investments, and help you in many other ways.
Before your next trip, why not consult one of our
Executive Officers . . . or obtain your copy of the
free booklet, “Trust Estates and Their Manage-
ment” by writing to the address below or ’phoning
8W4401 (Mr. Parker).
Permanent^Trustee
COMP ANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
33-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney
mm—mmmmmmmmmm BOARD OF DIRECTORS ■■■■■■■■
F. H. Way (Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, O.BJS. (Vice-Chairman).
A. E. Bond. J■ R- Faviell.
F. B. Fleming. G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart, pt.76.iz
IN A CHANGING WORLD . .
aw
Business. Rollery. etc.
Metals and Shares
After a short rally, share-
markets have again weakened.
Overseas the position has been
similar. Metals , too, have
dropped, tin excepted. And the
North and South Broken Hill
cos . have cut their interim
dividends —North from 3s. 6d.
a year ago to 2s. for the last half-
year, South to 25., compared
with the 4s. distribution a year
ago. Last annual distribution
from North was Bs. 6d. per ss.
stock-unit. South Bs, per stock-
unit.
Following the div.-cut there
was an immediate drop in Barrier
share prices. In Sydney Norths
fell 3s. 3d., Souths Is. 9d.
Though the actual connection is
somewhat remote. Barriers have
traditionally had an influence on
prices for industrial shares, and
the accelerated weakness in
industrials on Thursday of last
week undoubtedly had some
connection with the announce-
ment from Collins House.
In addition to the industrial-
share weakness, most mining
issues took a downward trend.
King Island Scheelite was
weaker. Mt. Isa slipped back,
possibly partly as a result of the
announcement • that Australia
will have ample supplies of
copper this year for the first time
since the war started. The co.’s
copper-smelter (capacity 18,000
tons a year) began operations
this year. The co., of course, is
also influenced by the market for
lead and spelter.
Commonwealth Loan Filled
The £77 million which the
Federal Treasury asked for was
oversubscribed by £2.1 million.
Conversions amounted to £36
million (out of £47 million, or
about 75 p.c.) and cash applica-
tions totalled about £43.1
million.
The offering was in two types
of security—short-term 3 p.c. s
issued at £99 10s., and .yielding
£3 3s. 10d., and long-term (1962)
4| p.c.’s. The proportions in
which investors have selected
these securities is not yet known.
Nor has the amount of support
received from Government insti-
tutions and funds been
announced.
But, on the face of it, the
operation was a success, and the
general trend of investment at
present suggests that the public
is looking favorably upon the
new rates of interest. The Gov-
ernment is endeavoring to pro-
tect the value of public loans by
curbing inflation and increasing
production. If it succeeds,
current interest-rates should be
satisfactory to those who seek a
trustee investment.
The nigger in the woodpile is
the prospect of a return of a
Federal “Labor” Government.
Dr. Evatt has made it clear that,
in maintaining “full employ-
ment,” he will supplement with
bank credit any deficiency in
taxation receipts and public
loans. If he adopts that policy,
then the more bank credit he
issues the less support for Gov-
ernment loans he is likely to get.
And that would mean disaster
for the bond market.
His announced policy of
lowering interest-rates in no way
fits in with his “full-employ-
ment” finance policy.
A New C.S.R. Loan
Colonial Sugar’s new £3
million debenture loan,
• redeemable 1960-63 at the
co.’s option, again carries
5 p.c. The issue is at par. A
previous £4 million, issued last
September, carried the same
interest-rate.
The C.S.R. has many new
industrial and chemical ventures
cooking, and by the time these
debentures mature the new
enterprises should be in full and
profitable production. Mean-
time it is of advantage to
present shareholders that the
capital involved should be cost-
ing no more than 5 p.c.
(dividend-rate on the ords. is at
present 9 p.c.).
Paid capital of the C.S.R. is
£14,040,000, buttressed by
even larger reserves. Its sugar
interests remain the mainstay of
the business; they are the solid
rock upon which ancillary under-
takings are being established, or
have already been brought to
profitable production. Possibly,
as the new chemical and alcohol
enterprises get entrenched, the
co. will call on shareholders
instead of debenture-holders for
finance. But in the meantime
interest paid on debentures is
deductible for income tax pur-
poses, and with company taxes
at their present high levels that
is an important consideration.
On £7 million of debentures
the interest bill will be £350,000
annually. It is covered several
times over by average annual
profits.
An 111 Wind
“P. Mobile”: The destruction
by fire of part of the Canberra
University College during the
difficult period of organisation
and growth, and the loss of
valuable books and lecture-notes,
is deplorable from every point
of view. It is possible, however,
that the same wind which fanned
the university conflagration may
have performed an indirect ser-
vice to the Commonwealth by
offering to the Bureau of
Mineral Resources the oppor-
tunity to withdraw, without loss
of face, from its part-time ven-
tures into the oil game. ,
Now that the bureau’s almost-
completed report on five years’
reconnaissance for petroleum in
the Kimberley district has been
reduced to ashes and—what is
more serious—all the fieldbooks
have been destroyed, it would
be a completely justifiable and
welcome economy by the ex-
pensive Department of National
Development to leave the search
for oil in the hands of those
specialist companies whose tech-
nical knowledge and experience
reduces such an enterprise from
a sheer gamble to a commercial
risk.
If the prospects are at all
promising, such organisations
will not, in the words of a
B.M.R. official, “be waiting for
the report to open up a field in
the Kimberley district.” In
fact, the only groups likely to be
interested in its publication
would be small companies, lack-
ing both funds and technical
know-how, who might hope to
be able to use excerpts in attract-
ing shareholders, and as an
excuse for demanding a Govern-
ment subsidy.
To suggest, as has been done
by a National Development
official, that the Bureau’s officers
should spend a year in building-
up what they can from the nega-
tives (which escaped destruc-
tion) of the completed maps,
and what they may be able to
remember of what they saw in
the field, merely indicates how
lightly the need for economy in
public expenditure is regarded
by the department, whose record
in its search for petroleum has
consisted of a series of abortive
attempts to develop areas which
would not be considered seri-
ously as reasonable prospects by
professional oil-men.
In any responsible mining
venture the use of a report
“reconstructed” from frag-
mentary evidence and memory
would be considered unethical
in the extreme and would not
attract knowledgeable or sophis-
ticated investors.
When the loss of the bureau’s
data was first announced the
statements in the Press might
have been interpreted as
meaning that all Westralian
oil activities were affected, but
on April 13 a spokesman for the
Western Australian Petroleum
co. made it clear that the work
of his organisation would not be
hampered by the destruction of
the geological records in ques-
tion.’ As far as W.A.P. is con-
cerned, the date of spudding-in
in the Exmouth Gulf area is
unaltered, and an announce-
ment that drilling has started
there may be expected at an
early date.
Newcastle Port
Writing in Newcastle’s “Morn-
ing Herald” of April 4, the
recently-retired assistant harbor-
master of the port. Captain
Purdon, who can now speak
with greater freedom and frank-
ness than before, has both con-
firmed and amplified all that
has been said in these columns
about the Government’s shame-
ful neglect of dredging opera-
tions and port facilities there.
Moreover, the captain’s
views were quickly brought to
the notice of the N.S.W.
Minister for Works (Mr. Ren-
shaw) by Newcastle’s Lord
Mayor (Aid, Purdue), who
pointer! out that he, and the
whole community, had been
long concerned about the con-
dition of the harbor and its de-
ficiencies, which were so obvious
and deplorable that the Govern-
ment should take immediate
action in the interests of both
the city and the State.
On April 13 Minister Ren-
shaw said he was replying to
Aid. Purdue’s letter. His state-
ment to the Press, however,
consisted of the usual platitudes
concerning to the problems and
difficulties involved in any posi-
tive action. He concluded with
the threadbare parrot-cry that
the “Labor” Government was
doing “its level best,” and pointed
out —as an excuse for indiffer-
ence —that the condition of the
wharves and equipment is the
result of neglect by every Gov-
ernment in power oyer the last
30 years.
Truth is that the very alarm-
ing silting of this busy port is
directly attributable to the
termination of the HAM
301 contract at a time when
the services of that effec-
tive dredge were still avail-
able. It is now obvious, as it
was long ago, to all persons of
perspicacity that the existing
set-up, with its divided control
and inadequacy of equipment
and employees, is unable to
cope with harbor problems, even
under the existing easy flood-
free conditions.


Financial Advice
There is no need for you, as a customer of
the Bank, to feel that you have to grapple
with financial problems unaided.
By adopting the practice of regularly review-
ing your financial affairs with your A.N.Z. Bank
Manager, you can be assisted to maintain youf
finances in a healthy condition and to make
sound plans for the future.
This A.N.Z. Bank service is freely available to
you, whether your resources are large or small.
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and New
Zealand, in Fiji, and in London. Agents throughout the world.
A-N-Z
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia
(Established 1835)
The Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
(Established 1837)
WORMALD BROTHERS SYSTEMS
lor protection against FIRE!
V
m mm mm i
mm: ....
rsm
■
C
0
* a ; !S| " "
_
To kill fire
effectively, each
type of fire requires
a different
extinguishing
technique
“Simplex” and “Kidde ” (“Lux”)
Fire Extinguishers are self-
contained units, ruggedly con-
structed, foolproof. Each does
a specific job. At your office,
factory, engineering shop, ware-
house or store —on farm or
station—in your car, truck or
yacht they’re always ready
for instant, positive action in
an emergency.
“Simplex” and “Kidde” Fire
Extinguishers are approved by
all Government Departments,
and used by the Navy, Army
and Air Force.
A "SIMPLEX" OR "KIDDE" FOR
EVERY TYPE OF FIRE RISK
"MaMiMMd
C& D V
(A) "Simplex" Auto Type Carbon Tetrachloride (CTC).^
1 quart. For motor lorries and cars, lift motor rooms. small electric
switchboards and other electrical risks.
(B) "Simplex" Stored Pressure Carbon Tetrachloride (CTC) Iype.
1-gallon capacity. For large ejecirical Installations, telephone exchanges
and similar risks. , ..
(C) "Simplex" Foam Type, 2-gallon capacity. _ Specified for all
highly inflammable liquids and materials when, in case of fire,
blanketing effect is desired.
(D) "Simplex" Soda Acid Type. 2-gallon capacity For all general
fire protection purposes. Install in offices, factories, hotels, halls, farm
buildings, theatres, homes. .
(E) "Kidde" (Fland) Carbon Dioxide Gas (CO2) Type, 12-lb.
capacity. Has no damaging after-effects. Particularly specified for
protection of switchboards, electrical motors and apparatus, and
certain inflammable hazards.
fit
SIMPLEX ana
(Previously known as‘‘LUX’’)
HAND FIRE EXTINGUISHERS
KIDDE
J»
gdf
Manufactured by
WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRIES
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889
ASSOCIATED COMPANIES:
KIRSCH COMPANY (AUST.) LTD. STEELBILT LIMITED
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
A cantankerous early spring,
loud with gust and gale, heavy
of cloud and unsparing of rain,
is scarcely a natural stimulant
to thoughts on cricket. Yet,
although practice is active only
in the sheltered independence of
the indoor schools, conversation
and background events have
already given the season a
strong, if premature, opening.
Terence Rattigan’s film, “The
Final Test,*’ has had its
premiere; some of the London
stores are dressed for “cricket
weeks.”
What of the season and the
prospects, from the Englishman’s
point of view? Financially,
success is assured, for all seats
for the Tests have long been sold
out except, significantly, for the
fifth days. And it is a tribute
to the strongly-challenged but, as
yet, unbroken paramountcy of
Australian cricket that interest in
the tour was never keener.
As to that other, more
important, issue—can England
confidently hope to regain the
Ashes? —opinions are mixed to
the point of controversy. At
spectator level, the north is more
optimistic than the south. York-
shire, which prides itself on tak-
ing cricket so seriously and which
has sublime faith in its own
native-born players, is convinced
that the victory can be won. To
have “Our Len” in command
and young Fred Trueman to put
devil into the attack is, it is felt,
a sure foundation.
In the south, and in all the
county pavilions, neither wishful-
thinking nor overconfidence is
allowed to color opinion. And
when the last word of assess-
ment has been spoken the
problem inevitably resolves itself
into a simple expression: that
given parity between the sides or
even an English improvement
coincident with an Australian
decline, any side which includes
Keith Miller is a potential
match-winner.
London has a particular
interest in one of the early fix-
tures —the “friendly” match with
East Molesey C.C., Whose ground
backs on to one of the prettiest
stretches of the Thames, near
Hampton Court. It is the oldest
ground in regular use in the
country, closely approaching the
historic Broadhalfpenny Down
in antiquity, and provides all the
delights and felicities of weekend
cricket. A “sixer” straight-
driven from the south-end lands
directly in the river and the
captain has a fox-terrier trained
as retriever. A patron offers a
prize of £5 to any batsman who
can smite the ball on to Tagg’s
Island. Because of the height of
the trees the drive must be well-
lofted —and there’s the rub. It
remains to be seen whether this
feat, as yet unaccomplished, will
result from the happy-go-lucky
atmosphere of an April Sunday
afternoon before play really
begins in earnest.
Bill of Health
The National Health Service
is under scrutiny again. Sir
Stafford Cripps’s “ceiling,”
arbitrarily fixed at £4OO million
in 1950 when its finances had got
right out of hand, is to stay for
a fourth year. Since then costs
have risen steeply and the com-
ponent authorities, especially the
hospitals, are uneasily trying to
make do. By appointing an
independent committee to inves-
tigate the financial structure of
the service the Government has
plainly intimated that the child
it is pledged to rear is both
intractable and in need of
reformation.
An essential condition of the
scheme was the Health Centre,
which was intended to act as an
intermediary between the general
practitioner and the hospital.
But the service developed with
such alarming and one-sided
precocity that the centres never
came to exist. The result is that
the family doctor is overwhelmed
with patients, who crowd his
waiting-room, and whom he
tends to pacify with too-liberal
proprietary remedies, bottles of
medicine and boxes of pills ; and
the hospitals, besides having long
waiting-lists for beds, are over-
pressed with diagnoses and
investigations that properly
belong to the clinic.
Whether or not it is a practic-
able possibility to influence some
of the £2OOO million that the
nation spends yearly upon its
tobacco, alcohol, football-pools
and other pleasures into the
direction of preventive medicine
(unbottled) is open to question,
but it is unlikely that the service
can hold out for long on its
present subsidy.
The most probable source of
revenue is the patient himself.
He will have to pay more
towards his treatment and forego
some few gallons of his tincture.
According to the Civil Esti-
mates, prescriptions for next
year will cost £45 million —an
increase of £4 million, or 60 per
cent, of the patients' own con-
tributions by way of the Is.
charge. Medical opinion, press-
ing hard for the centres and
better hospitals, considers this is
a high and wasteful price to pay
for fobbing off minor ailments
and encouraging valetudi-
narianism.
And there are also strong
grounds for insisting that the
hospital patient should meet his
own board-and-lodging, since
the hospitals’ annual bill for food
alone amounts to about £35
million.
Other subsidies, notably those
for housing and national insur-
ance and assistance, are also
under review. All in all, a hard
task lies before the Government,
political as well as economic, for
it must somehow reduce the cost
of the social services, which, in
1951, amounted to 37 per cent,
of the total public expenditure,
and which now may well exceed
that figure.
Spectre and Saint
The contemporary English
drama, so remarkable for the
high quality of its acting, is dis-
tressingly threadbare in its writ-
ing. Too often the play is no
more than a sounding-board for
the virtuosity of producer and
players who, in turn, tend to
regard the author not as a
creative artist in his own right,
but rather as an instrument indis-
pensable to their own creative
versatility.
This producer-domination is
a bad thing for the theatre. It
inhibits or discourages outright
the new writer and, ultimately,
must stifle the drama. And it
means that only the well-
established playwright, being
somewhat less dependent upon
favors, can write to please
himself.
Such an author is R. C.
Sherriff. Directly in the tradi-
tion of Somerset Maugham, he
rates competence and craftsman-
ship higher than intellectual or
literary brilliance. His two post-
war plays, “Miss Mabel” and
“Home at Seven,” were both
rewarding to the discerning
theatregoer. The broad tech-
nique is simple: he takes an
extravagant or abnormal situa-
tion and applies it to a conven-
tional English setting, usually of
the upper-middle-class. As with
the modern type of thriller, the
dramatic interest lies less in the
characters themselves than in the
working-out, which demands
skill and consummate crafts-
manship. Otherwise, there is
little or no play.
“The White Carnation”
(Globe Theatre) is a variation
upon this formula. A stock-
broker is killed by a flying-bomb
and returns, apparently robust
and solid in evening clothes with
white buttonhole, to haunt the
ruin of his mansion. Even more
does he haunt the orderly
administrative machine of the |
Home Counties, his obstinate
refusal to depart in the manner
of all good ghosts proving a
major inconvenience to both
local and central authority.
The author’s treatment is very
matter-of-fact and unfantastical,
but, at times, subtly humorous
(although not in the instance of
his Antipodean alias). Unfor-
tunately, the joke soon wears
thin, and it is pnly when the
laconic imperturbability of
Whitehall is held to gentle
ridicule that the merriment is
unforced.
Sir Ralph Richardson—a most
burly, loudly - expostulating
wraith—has his moments, too,
chiefly in his bewilderment at
trying to reconcile the past with
the present. But his strange
accent and overdemonstratiye-
ness only serve to reveal a partial
failure in characterisation.
Another established dramatist,
T. S. Eliot, is better served in a
revival of “Murder in the
Cathedral” at the Old Vic.,
where Robert Donat, too long
absent from the stage, makes a
triumphant return as Thomas
Becket.
Robert Helpmann’s production
is simple yet integral, magnifying
the splendor of the poetry and
the dignity of the tragedy. But
in the well-known scene where
the knight-murderers step out of
character Helpmann introduces
a comic turn that rather suggests
boogie-woogie in a requiem;
and this unpardonable incon-
gruity is underlined by Donat’s
tranquil portrayal of saintliness
—not merely transparent good-
ness but worldliness and tempta-
tion overcome.


vr
N,
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
director's and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Waiet
and Queensland.
CO
CO
uu
GO
«
n
4
Do you know that the Union Trustee Company can act for
you m any of these matters—providing expert and permanent
service by experienced officers, at moderate cost?
As EXECUTOR of your estate.
As EXECUTOR of a will where the executor appointed
declines to act.
As ADMINISTRATOR of an estate where there is no will.
As TRUSTEE in place of a trustee who desires, for health
or other reasons, to relinquish his trust.
As TRUSTEE under a Deed of Settlement.
As ATTORNEY or AGENT for the management of property.
As TRUSTEE for the holders of debentures.
Call and arrange for a confidential discussion of your personal
needs, with an officer of the Company—or write for your
copy of the Booklet, “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trusteesi”
will meet your Personal Needs?
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated In Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
UT 16
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Woolworlhs, ■ Ltd.
t —Dividends
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord. Re-
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. 7 p.c. 171 p.c. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1945 .. 172,073 7500 14,000 133,680 610,180
Added share premium res., £7500.. 617,680
1946 .. 188,830 7500 14,000 133,855 651,155
Insurance reserve appears, £35,000.. 686,155
16 p.c.j
1947 .. 270,232 7500 14,000 178,640 756,247
Staff bonus, £22,330 733,917
15 p.c.
1948 .. 305,923 7500 14,000 209,343 808,997
Share premiums, £307,037 .. .. 1,116,034
1949 .. 339,310 7500 14,000 223,300 1,210,544
Share premiums, £428 .. ..1,210,972
1950 .. 823,110 7500 14,000 230,278 1,282,304
Share premiums, £382,828 .. .. 1,665,132
1951 .. 359,882 7500 14,000 286,438 1,717,076
Reserves capitalised, £685,656 .. 1,031,420
Added insurance reserve, £98,488 .. 1,129,908
12 p.c.
1952 .. 516,533 7500 14.000 411,298 1,213,645
Reserves drawn upon, £20,784 . . 1,192,861
1953 .. 454,915 ,7500 14,000 411,298 1,214,978
* After deducting goodwill ( £165,227) and excluding
depreciation reserve (now £550,776). f Includes
2 p.c. bonus.
Robust earnings and dividends, in
both good times and bad, combined
with vigorous growth, financed partly by
new share-issues for cash on favorable
terms and partly out of savings, portion
of which has been capitalised by periodic
issues of bonus-scrip and an encouraging
long-term outlook. These are some of
the factors responsible for the high repu-
tation which the scrip of this big variety-
chain-store organisation enjoys among
equities in the market.
In the wholesale recession of share-
prices during 1952 the co.’s f.-p. ss. ords.
dropped from a peak of 21s. 9d. to a low
of 15s. Last week the figure stood at 165.,
giving an immediate return of only 3.7
p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis. The anticipa-
tion is that those on the register will be
asked to help finance completion of an
“extensive” programme of expansion,
plans for which were laid about three
years ago. Its completion has been de-
layed by refusal of Capital Issues Control
to grant the co.’s requests in connection
with new share-issues in full. The investor
at 16s. who looks for, say, 4.8 p.c. on
his money counts on a one-for-three new
issue at par and a 13 p.c. div. At 355.
and 245. the first 10 p.c. and second 7
p.c. prefs., all of £1 each, yield 5.7 p.c.
and 5.8 p.c. respectively. Excluding the
depreciation reserve (£550,776), some of
which looks like genuine profit, net
tangible cover is £65 11s. first’s,
£24 4s. 3d. second’s and 6s. 9d. ord’s.
The Woolworth group, with head-
quarters at Sydney, consists of parent
and eight subsidiaries, which together
operate a chain of some 160 stores —eight
of them opened last term —scattered
throughout the Commonwealth and New
Zealand. Since the public became in-
terested about 25 years ago the ords.
have never failed to receive a div,,
highest being 30 p.c. in 1930 and lowest
11 p.c. in 1943. Over the same period
paid capital has shot up from £63,264 to
£3,702,485, which in 75,000 first 10 p.c.
and 200,000 second 7 p.c. prefs., all of
£1 each, and 13,709,939 ords. of ss.
each. Of the £3,427,485 of ord. capital
£1,640,567 (44.3 p.c.) represents bonus
scrip, and the balance brought with it
£894,270 of share premiums, which have
taken only part of the gilt off the ginger-
bread. The last gift, one-for-three, was
in 1951, and was accompanied by a cash
issue of similar proportions.
Since about 80 p.c. of the co.’s mer-
chandise is normally bought on the
Australian market and the balance over-
seas, the inventory position was less
affected by the import boom than the
1952 stock figure might suggest. Still,
stocks were reduced by £983,211 last
term, mainly because of import cuts, the
chairman says. All units of the group re-
port increased turnover; but mounting
wage and other costs gobbled most of the
gain. After allowing £84,774 (up £6759)
for depreciation, of which £20,784 came
from free reserves, the board figured profit
£17,379 better at £627,665, of which tax
assessment for previous years took
£172,750 (up £78,997), leaving the net
figure at £454,915 (down £61,618), subject
to tax. Estimated tax liability for the
two years to January 31 last is £350,000,
which is amply covered by an accumu-
lated p. and 1. balance of £771,775. The
£454,915 covered the pref. divs. (£21,520)
and 12.6 p.c. on ord. capital as against
14*4, 18, 19.6, 22.4 and 20.3 p.c. back to
1948. Because of this and the improve-
ment in outlook, the board didn’t hesitate
to repeat the 12 p.c. div., which is equal
to 15 p.c. on ord. capital as it now stands
less the last parcel of bonus-scrip.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
disclose a cautious trading policy, con-
tinued growth of the undertaking and
marked strengthening of the cash hold-
ing, thus placing the co. in a strong posi-
tion to take immediate advantage of any
trading opportunity that offers:
1950, 1951. 1952. 1953.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital.. 1,810,186 2,331.969 3,702,485 3,702,485
Overdraft .. 722,147
Creditors, etc, 547,141 619,949 738,271 776,586
Final divs. .. 164.269 216,447 250,670 250,674
Freeholds .. 44,987 44,993 10,092 10,583
Leaseholds .. 93,401 92,477 127,167 240,725
Plant .. 411,797 630,190 677,456 933,115
Shares other
cos. .. 1,556,662 2,413,704 2,538,767 2,776,259
Stocks •. 1,061,611 1,190,573 2,178,906 1,195,695
Debtors* .. 1,106,149 778,450 1,636,638 388,222
Cash .. 19,553 390,785 19,283 998,897
Goodwill .. 165,227 165,227 165,227 165,227
* Includes advances to subsidiaries—£l,o7B,l24,
1950; £721,340, 1951 ; £1,498,991, 1952;
£362,637, 1953.
The reduction in stocks already referred
to, and contraction of £1,248,416 in
debtors’ balances—they consist mainly
of advances to subsidiaries and bills pay-
able in respect of imported stock—
enabled the overdraft (£722,147 at
the previous balance) to be wiped out, the
cash holding to be strengthened by
£979,614 and £339,708 net to be added
to the book value of fixed assets, partly
on account of new stores and partly on
account of modernisation and extension
of existing premises. About £60,000 was
spent on brightening the main Sydney
store at the corner of Pitt- and Market-
street.
The whole set-up, domestic and eco-
nomic, favors a better showing at next
balance.
Sargood Gardiner, Ltd.
/ Dividends N To Be- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Amt.* serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
’47.. 87,641 5 p.c. 7 p.c. = 55,659 31,982 267.811
Special dividend, £48,001 .. .. 219.810
To tax reserve, £lB,BOO .. . . 201.010
Share premiums, £6231 .. .. 207,241
Unexplained addition, £9OOB .. .. 216,249
’48..113.970 5 p.c. 7 p.c. = 56,196 57,774 274,023
Share premiums, £19,560 .. ~ 293,583
To tax reserve, £13,800 .. .. 279.783
’49.. 86,906 5 p.c. 7 p.c. = 57,702 29,204 308,987
Share premiums, £BBl9 .. .. 817,806
Unexplained addition, £7889 .. .. 325,695
■50.. 79,082 6 p.c. 7 p.c. = 62,953 16,129 841.824
Unexplained addition, £40,544 net.. 382,368
’51., 81.861 6 p.c. 6ip.c.= 60,545 21,316 403.684
Unexplained addition, £6 .. ~ 403,690
’52„ 63,275 5 p.c. 5 p.c. = 53,351 9,920 413,614
* Includes exchange on stock on London register.
This is an amalgamation of two big
and old-established softgoods wholesale
houses—Sargood Bros, and W. Gardiner
and Co.—which were money-spinners in
their heyday. They got together in 1927,
when the growth of the Australian textile
trade, specialty house and big depart-
ment- and chain-stores had begun to eat
into the wholesaler’s trade. The public
became interested in 1947, when family
interests sold part of their shareholdings
—127,000 prefs. at a premium of 2s. 6d.
each and 97,000 ords. at a premium of
9s. each. Meanwhile the co, had
launched out into manufacture on its
own account, setting up several clothing
factories throughout the Commonwealth,
last of which was completed a couple
of years ago at Dee Why, near Sydney.
’Fhe financial requirements of expand-
ing trade kept on growing under pressure
of the post-war boom, and £400,000 of
p.c. registered unsecured notes, with
an eight-year currency, were issued at
par early in 1951; and they have con-
tinued to earn more than their keep. The
£1,013,110 of share capital is in 550,816
5 p.c. prefs. and 462,294 ords., and it
had the support and assistance of
£413,614 of reserves at June 30 last. The
capital structure is thus well-geared from
the equity point of view.
Still, net earnings have moved less
favorably than sales over the last half-
dozen years, due mainly to pressure of
rising wage and other costs against a
ceiling of mostly controlled selling-prices.
Profits shown in the table are those
claimed in the accounts, but, for the
three years to 1949, they were written
after charging taxes actually paid each
year, without making any provision for
the next year’s bill when it arrived.
Allowing for tax at the public-co, rate,
profits were approximately £104,500,
1947, £98,000, 1948, and £83,970, 1949.
The figures since are a true reflection of
net earnings, allowance being made for
taxation to each balancing date.
Last term costs rose, consumer resist-
ance increased and sales dropped, and
the trade generally liquidated surplus
stocks at clearance prices. After allow-
ing £19,805 (down £13,334) for deprecia-
tion, £40,000 (down £47,000) for taxa-
tion and sending £6500 (down £1500) to
the staff fund, the cautious board put
net earnings at £63,275 (down £18,586).
That was enough to pay the pref, div.
(£29,408) and show 7.3 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 11.3, 11.1, 14.6, 18.5
and 20.4 p.c. back to 1947 on the basis
of the adjusted figures already mentioned.
The div., steady at 7 p.c. for the three
years to 1950, was lowered from 6f p.c.
to 5 p.c.
Trading conditions show up again in
balance-sheet movements:
Paid capital— 1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Pref. .. £550.816 £550,816 £550,816 £550,816
Ord. .. 438,777 462,294 462,294 462,294
Unsecured notes —•— 400,000 386,800
Overdraft .. 437,466 783,840 503,347
Creditors,
etc.* .. 454,171 873,728 449,305 233,468
Final divs. .. 80,869 33,865 33,866 29,070
Freeholds .. 279,035 317,827 342,425 341,570
Plant ~ 44,212 65,635 94,316 120,082
Stocks .. 1,525,335 1,685,166 1,182,056 1,793,894
Book debts .. 345,274 412,576 449,737 299,273
Shares subsid.,
etc. .. 16,914 27,705 27,549 22,607
Cash, etc. .. 10,316 87,958 203,882 1,733
* Includes provision for taxation.
To help carry an extra £611,838 of stocks
—in at the lower of cost or market price
—add £25,716 to plant and clip £215,837
off the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., the co. went to its bankers
for £503,347 and drew upon cash, etc.,
for £202,149. The reduction of £150,464
in book debts was due to the falling off
in trade toward the close of accounts.
The whole economy has since been
brought into better balance, thanks
largely to import restriction, growth in
export income and low level of. unemploy-
ment, The co. has got its full share of the
resultant improvement in trade generally,
and an interim 4 p.c. p.a. (tax-free) )was
handed out on April 16, same as for
the previous term. The sharemarket
prices the f.-p. £1 ords. at 17s. 6d. as
against 21s. 6d. early in 1952. The re-
turn at 17s, 6d. would be 5.7 p.c. on a
5 p.c. div. basis, or 6.8 p.c. on a 7 p.c.
distribution. The prefs. at 16s. 6d. yield
6 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is 51s. lOd, pref.’s and 375. lid. ord.’s.
There is a substantial inner reserve in
the freehold item.
McDonnell & East, Ltd. (Bris.)
/ Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord.* serves, serves.
£* £> £,£,£•
1943.. 17,056 720 5ip.c.=10,231 6,105 30,091
1944.. 25,914 720 6 „ ~11,161 14,033 44,124
1945.. 26,748 720 6 „ ~11,161 14,867 58,991
1946.. 31,332 720 7 „ ~13,021 17,591 76,582
1947.. 37,043 720 7 „ ~13,022 23,301 99,883
From policies a/c, £3200 .. .. 103,083
1948.. 46,817 720 8 p.c. =14,882 31,215 134,298
Reserves disappear, £7379 .. .. 126,919
1949.. 32,696 720 8 p.c. =14,882 17,094 144,013
Reserves disappear, £13,598 .. .. 130,415
1950.. 34,099 720 8 p.c. rf4,882 18,497 148,912
Reserves disappear, £10,524 .. .. 138,388
1951.. 50,815 720 10 p.c. =18,603 31,492 169,879
Revaluation -assets, £53,348 .. .. 223,227
Reserves disappear, £13,085 .. .. 210,142
1952.. 28,449 720 8 p.c. =15,846 11,883 222,025
Reserves disappear, £11,528 .. .. 210,497
1953.. 29,823 720 8 p.c. =22,882 6,221 216,718
* Includes special payments to directors.
The improvement of £1374 in last
term’s net earnings of this Brisbane
draper, whose shop is in George-street,
just off the main shopping centre, doesn’t
mean all that it might. Turnover im-
proved, but gross profits (£268,118) was
only £944 better. A growth of £9570 in
exes. (£223,295) was more than offset by
a reduction of £lO,OOO in the allowance
for taxation (£15,000), leaving the net
result at £29,823. Also 114,000 new £1
ords. were issued at par just before the
close of accounts in 1952, lifting paid
capital to £295,027, of which £9OOO
carries a fixed cumulative 8 p.c.
So, after allowing for the small pref.
div. (£720), the balance of the year’s
profit dropped to 10.2 p.c. of average ord.
capital as against 15.5, 29.1, 19.4, 18.6
and 26.8 p.c. back to 1948. And whether
the £29,823 of profit claimed was actually
earned depends upon the purpose for
which the unexplained reductions in the
reserve for contingencies (interlined in
the table) were used. Taking these reduc-
tions into the reckoning, the 1953 profit
was £18,295, which covered the pref.
requirements and 6.1 p.c. on ord. capital
compared with 8.2, 23 and 11.5 p.c. for
the three preceding years.
Still, allowing for last year’s excep-
tional trading conditions, the drop in
net earning-power of capital was no more
than was to be expected. The term
opened with a commodity headache,
arising from a swollen inventory following
the import boom. And profit margins
were squeezed by rising wage and other
costs and by stiffening competition.
However, throughout the war and post-
war periods the board has followed a
cautious financial and keen merchandis-
ing policy. The div. has been kept
moderate (average 7.2 p.c. over the last
dozen years), and, for the most part,
more has been ploughed back into the
business than has been distributed, thus
strengthening the prop for capital and
enabling the management to improve and
brighten the store and carry more
stocks. With reserves at £216,718 and
capital as it now stands, the two com-
bined need turn in only a moderate 4.6
p.c. to cover the pref. div. and 8 p.c.
to the ords.
Import restrictions and gradual im-
provement in the economic position as
the year advanced enabled the manage-
ment to reduce stocks (down £133,617)
and lighten the overdraft (down £100,519)
without cutting margins to unprofitable
levels:
1950. 1951. 1952. 1953. f
Paid capital.. £181,027 £181,027 £294,904 £295,027
Mortgages .. 1,653 903 903 903
Overdraft . . 117,590 143,370 217,731 117,212
Sndy. creditors 83,501 38,200 41,575 43,697
Tax provision 62,572 72,294 79,062 55,913
Final divs. .. 8.161 11,882 9,125 13,591
Freehold, plant,
etc. .. 103,229 131,014 221,611 223,541
Stocks . . 360,282 382,448 652,925 419,308
Book debts .. 56,887 80,872 88,342 98,046
Cash, etc. .. 33,018 23,223 2,446 2,166
The growth of £9704 in book-debts sug-
gests a slight strengthening of trade to-
ward the close of accounts. Stocks are
reported in “sound condition,” and they
appear in the books at the lower of cost
or market value. The year’s slip in the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£288,204)
was only £7113.
The current term has opened with
business active and prices steadier. And


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
3=
JACKSON
O'SULLIVAN
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
"Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturets of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
‘PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’* values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result <fn private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
DIVIDENDS from
guaranteed bi| her
"twin securities „
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
■::*
Si*
M
m
\->'j
*
UNHAMPERED
NATIONAL
OEVEIOPMfffT
gpjjp J
25*
•to.
:
Queensland Investments
in Hastings Diesels
w have success assured.
This rich state provides abundantly all the
essentials vital to splendid returns. This
Hastings Diesels Limited wholly-owned sub-
sidiary holds the Queensland representation
for the Great Companies of Caterpillar
Tractor Co. and John Deere Tractors and
Agricultural Implements . . . whose famous
equipment is destined to play a major part
in Queensland's development and forthcoming
primary production drive for food.
Your opportunity for sure regular returns is now offered with the Ordinary Shares
each in Hast?n g rLJels Limited. As only 30.000 SHARES ore now avertable.
IMMEDIATE APPLICATION IS ESSENTIAL.
in
' N '
0 0 0
0 0
0
0
ORDINARY SHARES IN
HASTINGS DIESELS LTD
570.000 MBEAD^|»WB|€^WB®o*!i^lttPOoiWftlLAßl-E
100% RETURNED!
Original investors in the Hastings Peer-
ing Group of Companies have now
received back 100% of their capital on
regular dividends! .. ..
The first 100.000 shares in Hastings
Diesels Limited were taken up by exist-
ing shareholders in our Group of Com-
panies within two weeks of publication
of the prospectus.
Hastings Deering Building,
William St., Sydney.
Phone M 0412 133 lines).
Hastings Deering's themselves have taken
up £325.000 of the original authorised
capital.
HASTINGS DIESELS PROFITS
PROFITS
1950 .... £8.136 5.5%1
1951 .... £11.790 9.2.% [■ DIVIDENDS
1952 .... £48.779 39%J
Capital = £lOO,OOO
CATTLE PROPERTY: 50-year leases for 2.600
square miles adjacent to Alice Springs.
COUPON FOR APPLICATION FORM
The Secretary,
Hastings Diesels Limited,
William Street, Sydney. #
Please forward me Prospectus for your new issue of ordinary
shares.
My name ~
Address
State
BCMXXX
the now-assured seasonal condi-
tions with buoyant returns in
prospect for rural industries, and
a high level of employment,
should mean much so far as
spending is concerned. But
competition is keener, and costs
are still creeping upward, which
means narrow profit-margins,
thus plating the emphasis on the
volume of turnover.
At 265. (20s. a year ago) the
f.-p. £1 prds. return a satisfactory
6.1 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover is 355. 4d.
The well-protected prefs. seldom
appear on ’Change.
Larut Tin Fields, Ltd.
One of the Anglo - Oriental
group, this co., which is an
amalgamation of the old Larut,
Tupai, Kota and Settlement
Dredging cos., has been win-
ning tin in the Taiping Valley
(Malaya) for the last 27 years,
excepting the period of the Jap
occupation. It got its Nos. 4
and 5 dredges into production
again in 1947, since when profits
have kept in step with the mar-
ket for the metal, subject to the
regulating factors of treatment
and recovery figures and the level
of costs, including taxation,
direct and indirect.
Here are combined dredging
performances for the six years
to December 31, 1952; —■
Recovered
Year, Treated, t.o. Costs,* Profit.
Dec., ’OOO c.y. Tons. c.y. &
194 V .. 2302 397.17 6.92 d. 15,071
1948 . . 4255 841.43 6.86 d. 92,460
1949 .. 4553 1000.48 7.66 d. 107,986
1950 . . 3873 854.11 8.42 d. 145,222
1951 .. 4062 881.84 10.42 d. 225,472
1952 .. 4095 713.75 11.32 d. 126,159
* Treatment.
Average grade of ground
handled last term was 0.391 b.
t.o. per c,y. as against 0.491 b.
in 1951. Hence the contrac-
tion of 168 tons in tin-ore
recovered, assay value of which
was 74.4 p.c. metallic tin. In
terms of the metal, the year’s
recovery was 530.72 tons (down
144.56 tons), and the average
price realised was £942.89 (down
£108.28). Excluding provision
for income tax (£58,995, down
£55,576), but including all other
charges, costs per ton of metal
were £57 heavier at £613.8. •
After allowing for taxation,
the net result was £99,313 lighter
at £126,159, equal to 2s. lid.
per ss. share, or 42 p.c. on the
£300,000 of paid capital as
against 75 p.c. for 1951. Two
divs. totalling 3s. per share (4s.
previous year) were paid, less
Malayan income tax of 30 p.c.,
which reduced the net rate of
distribution to 42 p.c, stg. (56
p.c. in 1951).
Finances are snug. At De-
cember 31, 1952, there were
current assets totalling £527,828
(£379,980 of it cash) to meet
current liabilities of £80,255, in-
cluding the final div. (£63,000),
There was also a rehabilitation
loan of £14,706, which is more
than covered by £24,552 still to
come on account of war-damage
claims. Last term £14,706 was
received on adfcount of these
claims and £5040 in respect of
loss of stores, etc.
The yardage and average
’value of ground ahead of the
two dredges is not mentioned
in the directors’ report. The
Bangtoe area, in which the co.
holds a one-third interest, has
been sold to Kamunting Tin
Dredging for £BO,OOO, payment
of which now awaits transfer of
only a few of the leases.
The London spot-price of the
metal, which stood at £949 a
ton on March 17, was back to
£7OO on April 15, when the
forward quote was £695. The
figure pre-Korea was around
£6OO in June, 1950 ; in February,
1952, it had rocked to an aver-
age peak of £1470.
Behind the recent slump
lies the economics of
the “olive branch.” Although
American buying in Singapore is
reported to be running on a
fairly even keel, world produc-
tion of tin is running ahead of
world commercial consumption.
Doubts are whether American
stockpiling will continue to ab-
sorb the surplus. Until recently,
too, Straits tin was being shunted
to U.S. through the Continent
with the aid of cheap sterling.
Sterling rates have since firmed,
thus making switching opera-
tions unprofitable, with a conse-
quent easing of demand. How-
ever, owing to the widespread
repercussions of the sharp price-
fall in both the economic and
political fields, especially in
Malaya, international action de-
signed to steady the position
might be expected in the not too
distant future. Meanwhile the
whole background remains very
fluid. At the moment it is not
anticipated that the price will slip
much, if any, further.
Allowing for a small improve-
ment in unit costs and in the
grade of dirt treated, LaruHooks
like being able to earn a profit
of about £lOO per ton of metal
produced, with tin at £7OO de-
livered to the Singapore smelter.
On Sydney ’Change the co.’s f.-p.
ss. shares were recently offered
at 18s. after previous sales at 20s.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Nearly 2000 delegates and visitors were
present at the Town Hall when the
Governor opened the 31st General Con-
ferences of the Country Women’s Asso-
ciation on Wednesday. His Excellency
referred to the gracious occasion on
which the Conference, was beginning, the
birthday of Queen Elizabeth 11, and to
the fact that St. George’s Day, Shak-
speare’s birthday and Anzac Day, all
part of the heritage of our tradition, were
to be celebrated during the week.
After Mrs. H. J. Bate had proposed a
vote of thanks to his Excellency, Mrs.
J. M. Gordon presented her report and
congratulated Mrs. J. N. Spittle on being
invited as a representative of the Country
Women’s Association to the Coronation
of the Queen. The record of the achieve-
ments of the association during the year
made inspiring hearing, not the least
creditable being that the budget had been
balanced.
Mrs. M. C. Foxton, who moved tha
the report be adopted, is the presiden :
of the C.W.A. of Western Australia anc
is the only woman representative on th
Royal Commission on Television. The
motion was seconded by Mrs. A. M
Berry, deputy State President of Queens
land C.W.A., who has had the distinc
tion of being nominated as a candidat
for the office of World President
A.C.W.W., by the Netherlands Asspcia
tion.
Dame Enid Lyons, guest-speaker a:
the conference, said she thought hersel
very lucky indeed to be attending
the Coronation of Queen Elizabeth, who
in her person was the symbol of the
continuity of our race. The last time
she had seen the Queen was at the corona
tion of her father, when she was jus
a little girl. Dame Enid said that the
Country Women’s Association was unique
in that there was no men’s organisation
to come up to it, none so soundly anc
solidly based on Christian principles, and
yet so completely free from sectarianism
and the spirit of partisanship.
She urged women not to underestimate
their own powers, and referred to the
work of the foundation president ok
C.W.A., Mrs. Hugh Munro, M.8.E., who
was present on the platform. Women
must express their views, she said, on
public matters such as television. They
must say to themselves “I am responsible
for this, as it will react upon my
children.” Dame Enid advocated that
land grants should be given free to those
prepared to take the risks associated with
them and urged countrywomen to keep
their sons at school to the point where
they could compete with the city man in
every way. The quotation, she said, that
“all happiness is somewhere rooted in the
soil” should find an echo in the heart of
everyone in the city whose life is main-
tained by those who work on the land.
The incoming president of the C.W.A.
of N.S.W., Mrs. W. H. Cullen, in thank-
ing Dame Enid, quoted the words of
Mrs. Raymond Sayer: “A woman’s home
is still the centre of her world, it is no
longer its circumference.”
☆ ☆ ☆
The Scots College Ball kept its num-
bers down this year to 1100, and at that
achieved again one of the gayest parties
of the year. The School Pipe Band,
handsomely dressed in the tartan of the
Black Watch, skirled away in the foyer
while the guests were arriving, then
marched on to the floor and played
waltzes for the first two dances, all of
which stirred the blood and raised the
spirits so that the rest of the dance was
an inevitable success.
President of the Old Boys’ Union, Mr.
Alan Ritchie, received the guests with his
wife, who wore a draped dress of pale-
gold-and-blue brocade. The Principal of
the College, Rev. A. K. Anderson, and
Mrs. Anderson were present, also the
headmistress of P.L.C. Pymble, Miss
Dorothy Knox. Mr. and Mrs. H. J.
Fraser represented the School Council
and Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Beveridge the
G.P.S. Council.
President of the Parents and Friends’
Association, Mrs, E. A. Burbury, wore
a dress of blue threaded with silver,
whilst last year’s president, Mrs. G. L.
Elliott, combined velvet and organza in a
grey dress with rose-colored sequins. Mr.
and Mrs. Alan Tomlinson and Mr. and
Mrs. J. B. Maltman entertained a large
party, which included Mr. and Mrs. B. S.
Jones and Mrs. R. Hamilton of Morven,
Gurley, who had come down especially
for the dance.
Dr. and Mrs. J. Stewart, on furlough
from Malaya and shortly to return, were
“proud parents the night,” for son John
was pipe-sergeant of the school band.
Dr. Stewart said that he often played his
pipes in the cool of the evening in Malaya
and that before long a couple of hundred
natives would be grouped round the gates
listening. Well, it was the same in
George-street last Friday night when the
natives of Sydney gathered outside the
Trocadero to hear the Scots College ball
piped in.
The Countess Pietrasanta-Sauvaigne is
president of the Winter Committee of
The Smith Family, which is arranging a
fashion show to be called “By Royal
Command" on board the M/V Sydney’
on May 11. It will feature clothes suit-
able for Royal occasions designed by six
of Sydney’s leading designers, the splendor
of which will be enhanced by real jewels
and fabulous furs. The committee is
charging one guinea a ticket for this
function, and only 200 tickets are to be
sold.
Fashionable Sydney seems more than
somewhat interested in Shakspeare, to
judge by the crowd at the opening night
of “Othello.” The foyer of the Tivoli
was so packed with people at 7.50 (the
scheduled time for starting) that it was
8.5 before they were all in the theatre
seated. Even so there were a few late-
comers who complained so bitterly about
being shut out for the first act that they
were let in during a change of scene.
Everyone seemed to be dressed as spark-
lingly as possible, but it was hopeless to
make a showing against the splendor of
the Elizabethan costumes on the stage.
Several men wore the top-hat-and-
white-tie outfit, and even the most collar-
proud were to be seen in dinner-suits and
natty black ties. Regular first-nighters
were Mr. and Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere
(Mrs. Dekyvere wearing a short grey
metal-lace dress), Mr. and Mrs, M. Selby-
Davidson, Mr. and Mrs. Mark Barnett
and daughter Ann, Mr. and Mrs. D.
Service, Mr. and Mrs. E. Herz and
daughters Eva and Lilian, Mrs. M.
Fountain, Mrs. Dora Scott, Mr, and Mrs.
E. Lashmar, Mr. and Mrs. Walter Bun-
ning. Mrs. Rachel McGirr came with
her daughter Trixie, and her daughter
Beatrice was also present with her hus-
band, Dr. Tom Bateman.
☆ ☆ ☆
Art is to be a feature of the Venetian
Masked Ball (presented by the National
Opera Company) at Princes tonight
(Wednesday); Justin O’Brien, William
Orr and John Mansfield will judge the
art contest. Maurice Sullivan is arranging
the decor, and Doris Fitton will present
the fancy-dress parade, which promises
to show something extra-special in the
way of masks and head-dresses,
t •
& ☆ ☆
The Congress Ball at the Trocadero
attracted 1600 people, many of whom had
been visitors to Sydney for the Eucharistic
Congress. Dr. and Mrs. H. H. Nowland
welcomed the guests, who included
Premier J. J, Cahill and Mrs. Cahill,
Minister for Health O’Sullivan, Mr.
Justice Maguire and Mrs. Maguire,
Mr. Justice Kinsella and Mrs. Kinsella,
Mr. Justice McClemens, Mrs. K. Burrow
(whose dress was a French taffeta of black
patterned with white), English visitor
Mrs. H. Swann, who wore grey organza
and taffeta. Dr. Tess Carmichael in
bronze brocade, and Miss Catherine
Schaefer, who looked very smart in black
taffeta. Dancing did not begin till the
arrival of Cardinal Gilroy with the two
visiting Cardinals and Archbishop Mc-
Quaid of Dublin.
$
MELCCIJKNE
Under a cloudless sky women who
served as nurses in the Army and Air
Force in the two World Wars gathered
with several hundred civilians at the
Edith Cavell Memorial in St. Kilda-
road for an inspiring service on Anzac
morning. The Hon. Luke Mcßrien,
chairman of the Edith Cavell Memorial
Fund, presided. Col. A. E. (“Changi”)
Coates introduced the representatives of
various organisations who placed wreaths
at the base of the memorial, and Major-
General A, H. Ramsay gave the short
address.
Among those who placed wreaths were
the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. W. J. Brens,
Eighth Division Nurses represented by
Beryl Woodbridge (who was a p.-d.-w. in
Malaya), War Nurses Memorial Centre
(Mrs. R, G. Casey), Centaur Memorial
Trust (Miss E. Hughes Jones), Queen
Alexandra Royal Army Nursing Corps
(Miss M. J. Mitchell). As the Last Post
was sounded one thought of the im-
mortal words of Rupert Brooke:
Blow out you bugles over the rich dead!
There’s none of these so lonely and poor
of old,
But, dying, has made us rarer gifts than
gold;
These laid the world away, poured out the
red
Sweet wine of youth, gave up the years
to be....
One of the ticket-secretaries for the
Coronation Ball of the Royal Empire
Society is Felicity Harber, only daughter
of the Felix Harbers, of Canterbury,
Educated at Fintona, Felicity works in
an architect’s office. Her sports are
tennis and swimming. The ball will be
held at No. 9 Darling-street on May 20.
Tickets are one guinea each, and
Felicity’s phone number is WF3514.
Two hundred members of the Aus-
tralian-American Women’s Group packed
the Delphic when their president, Mrs.
R. G. Casey, in bright style spoke of her
“round-the-world-in-30-days’ ” trip, high-
lights of which were afternoon-tea with
the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh,
meeting Prince Charles and Princess
Anne, and luncheon with Mr. Nehru in
Delhi. The group’s vice-presidents Mrs.
W. W. Killough and Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell, were there, and official guests
included Mrs. Henry Stebbins, wife of
the U.S. Consul-General, her mother-in-
law, Mrs. Roderick Stebbins, who is on
a visit from the U.S.A., and Queensland
visitors Mrs. B. H. Connor and Miss May
Stephens. Among members were Mrs.
Rupert Downes, Mrs. Charles Lane,
Mrs. W. Thoman, Mrs. David Cheadle
and Mrs. Ethel Barnes, who recently held
her first art exhibition in this city, and
whose daughter, Mrs. H. Malval, has
just been elected to the Women Artists’
Association of America.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Stanley Smith, working for the
Aged and Infirm Blind, and Mrs. M. C.
Naughton, for the Spastic Children’s
Society, were joint organisers of an even-
ing of music and song which was held at
Scott’s Hotel, Mrs. Smith wore a gown
of pdstel-blue slipper-satin," Mrs. Naugh-
ton a dove-grey faille gown and a tulle
stole in mauve tonings. At the concert
were Mrs. W. K. Burnside, Mrs. E. Millar,
Mrs. Norman Robinson, Mrs. Norman
Richards, Mrs. Alfred Fowler, Mrs.
Harley Styles and Mrs. Fred Mollard.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dorothy Morton, who recently re-
turned from a trip overseas, was respon-
sible for the lovely and original decora-
tions for the Sacre Coeur Old Collegians
Association Ball at St. Kilda Town Hall.
The Coronation motif was conspicuous
in a large gold crown mounted on massed
flowers in all the jewel tones. The white
swans of the debutantes’ supper-table had
tiny gold crowns, and on all the tables
were gold swans and little posies of
flowers. Black swans, also gold-crowned,
were on the official table and were sur-
rounded by white and gold gladioli.
The debutantes, wearing bouffant white
gowns and coronets of white hyacinths,
were received by Mrs. R. M. Biggins,
president of the association, who was
assisted by her husband, Dr. Biggins.
Her lovely gown of pearl-pink satin had
a matching stole. Mrs. A. Kelly, who
represented Loretto (Mandeville Hall),
wore dove-grey tulle. Mrs. George
Capes, who was Genazzano’s representa-
tive, wore deep-mauve crepes with a
matching jacket.
Air Vice-Marshal F. Bladin and Mrs.
Bladin were in the official party; he an-
nounced the debts to the president. Mrs.
Bladin’s frock of pale-blue slipper-satin
had the wide skirt caught up with pink
roses to reveal an underskirt of blue-
over-pink tulle. Mrs. W. Dixon’s parch-
ment satin gown was embroidered with
pearls and silver beads. Mrs. L R.
Buxton’s flowing gown was of grey and
silver lame.. Mrs. John McCaulay wore
crepes of soft petunia-pink. Diana van
Assche, who trained the debs, wore a
short bouffant frock of pink jewelled
nylon. Among the dancers were Mrs.
Ross Batten, in pale-lime crepe; Mrs.
Flarry Sinn, whose black faille gown had
a pink pearl-trimmed yoke; Mrs. John
X. O’Driscoll, whose midnight-blue failles
frothed into a deep hem of tulle; and'
Mrs. Frank Mulcahy, whose satins were
apple-green,
☆ ☆ ☆
The Envoy Extraordinary and Minister
Plenipotentiary of Israel to Australia,
Mordkhai Nurock, was guest-of-
honor at a reception given in Communal
Hall, South Yarra. Hosts were Mr. M.
Ashkanasy, Q.C., and the Executive of
the Victorian Jewish Board of Deputies.
Guests included members of the
Judiciary, Parliament and the Consular
Corps. Accompanying the Minister was
the Third Secretary to the Israeli Lega-
tion, Miss Chan Shapiro (pronounced
Han and meaning Hannah), who was
bom in America. Her mother, Mrs. R.
Beiber, who now lives in Tel Aviv,
has come to Australia on a visit. Mrs.
Ashkanasy, who received the guests with
her husband, wore a dove-grey faille
frock, which had embroidered flowers
on the lapels of the bodice. Other guests
were Mrs. Ray Tovell, Tmdy Kingsley,
Mrs. H. P. Ogilvie, Mrs. Arnold Isaac-
son, Mrs. Bernard Cowen and Mrs, Leo
Fink.
'☆ ☆ ☆
A farewell luncheon-party for Mrs.
John Woodhouse, who left in Oronsay
for London, was given by Mrs. Constance
Day at the Australia. The hostess’s full-
skirted frock was of cinnamon-brown
paper-shantung, her off-the-face fez of
black velvet. The guest-of-honor, whose
husband. Colonel Woodhouse, is serving
in Korea, chose a suit of navy cloth and
a melusine beret in American-beauty
tonings. Among the guests were Mrs.
Norman Lynch, in black wool-jersey
frock and gold ornamented black velvet
pill-box cap; Mrs. Sue Cain, whose suit
of grey flannel was worn with a winter-
white melusine hat; Mrs. Royden Honey-
man, her black jacket-suit velvet-
trimmed ; and Mrs. John Newton, wear-
ing a suit of navy-and-white fine checks
and a rose-pink velvet cap which was
splashed with gold sequins.
☆ ☆ ☆
Proceeds from the Jubilee Ball of St.
Catherine’s, which will be held on May
4 in the Royale Ballroom, will be equally
divided between the school’s recently-
established kindergarten and the Spastic
Children’s Society. The ball-committee,
which comprises representatives of the
school council, Parents Association and
the Old Girl’s Association, has Mrs.
Janies Buchanan as chairman, Mrs. Len
Voss-Smith and Mrs, Guest are in charge
of publicity, Mrs. L. Hartnett the cater-
ing. Ticket-secretaries are Mrs. Peter
Andrews (UY5194), Mrs. Hal Watt
(U 2220), Noel Lidgett (U 3071), and Pat
Sargood (U 1193).


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HENRY JOHN HASTIE late of 780
Victoria Road, Ryde—TAKE NOTICE that
GWENDOLINE EILEEN HASTIE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2965 of
1952 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by Bth July 1953 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from ERIC
N. ROWLEY & CO., Solicitors, 107 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW'
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERNEST CLEMENTS formerly of
Gundagai New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that THELMA CLEMENTS has
filed Petition for Divorce No. 4459 of
1952 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking the Court to exer-
cise its discretion under Section 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by Bth
July 1953 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from A. R. M.
GIBSON & MACPHILLAMY, Solicitors, of
43 Phillip Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
TO CYRIL LEONARD FUDGE formerly
of 24 Mary Street North Wagga Wagga.—
TAKE NOTICE that ALEX LIONEL
GORMLY has filed Petition No. 3028 of
1951 praying for divorce from MARIE
JOYCE EDAN GORMLY on the grounds
of her adultery with you If you wish to
defend you-jnay enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 26th June 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from A. R. M. GIBSON & MAC-
PHILLAMY, Solicitors, of 43 Phillip
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
i
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
TO RODERICK MALCOLM McLAREN.—
TAKE NOTICE that FRANCIS SHEILA
DAYOREN has filed a Petition for nullity
No. 504 of 1952 on the ground that at
the time of the ceremony of her marriage
to yourself you were then still the husband
of Florence Rosemary McLaren If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 14th August
1963 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from BRIAN MULLEN,
Solicitor, of 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
ALL OVER THE WORLD
■
Good mornings begin with Gillette
'
The up-to-date Chief cried “Now mind what I say”;
-
Here’s how to shave in the easiest way.
'
Use a Blue Gillette blade—sharpest edge you can get
In a precision-made razor designed by Gillette.
LU
Gillette
BLADES
5-BLADE PACKETS. 2/1
10-BLADE PACKETS, 4/2
D
20-BLADE DISPENSER, 8/4
The world’s best shaving value!
Blue Gillette Blades
~ PA7
SUNDRY SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Othello”
It was a reasonable expecta-
tion that the “Othello” of the
Shakspeare Memorial Company
—which opened its season at
Sydney Tivoli last week . with
Anthony Quayle producing and
playing Othello —would be good.
It was still surprisingly good—
flowing, articulate and im-
mensely satisfying in concep-
tion and accomplishment.
There were little things, of
course: a Cassio who looked
over-young, not so much for his
years as for his experience; a
hint of sophistication in Bar-
bara Jefford’s Desdemona,
which, however, was as brief as
it was slight; some uncertainty
of intention, it seemed, in the
playing of the “brothel scene” ;
and, at the end, a rush which
rather deprived Leo McKern’s
[ago of the full savor of his last
lines, which are, after all, as
important as is the end to a
story.
It seemed, too, about Quayle’s
Othello that he fell too suddenly
and completely into his great
raging agony; that logo’s mis-
chief took him like knock-out
drops instead of poison; that
shreds of dignity might have
been held a fraction longer—in
places, anyway. Then, it seemed,
after that, that his anguished
violence was too much on the
surface ; that, to supplement it,
a violence of another kind was
needed —the suggestion of a
dark and underlying ferocity.
Possibly, of course —and not
unlikely, in fact—Mr. Quayle
knows best, but the effect was
that, in his vast and violent
torment, he got only pity when
one would have liked to feel
also, a shade of terror and, still,
a touch of admiration.
But those were small things,
mere ripples, and dull would he
be who dwelt on them.
The foregoing references to
Quayle’s Othello, for instance,
could only be levelled at a small
part, a small aspect of it. Taken
all round, the Moor was in ex-
ceptionally intelligent and per-
ceptive hands. There were the
perfectly-assumed and remark-
ably effective sonority of voice,
and an admirable strength and
nobility in the opening scenes
and again with “Soft you, a
word or two before you go.”
And between that opening and
end, of course, there was the
savage, corrosive destruction of
those very qualities ; the tragedy
itself.
That was Quayle’s Othello.
Right up beside it, in fact af
shade in front, was Leo Mc-
Kern’s lago. There was not, as
might have been expected, any
smooth, sinister malignancy
here; rather a small, colorless
man; a rough, plebeian soldier
soaked with hatred and busy in
mischief. It didn’t, in truth,
seem quite right at first, but as
McKern played it out with un-
faltering consistency it seemed,
in the end, the only way to play
it, and the only way to give the
audience its villain and the play
its “honest lago.”
The hint of sophistication
which marked Barbara Jefford’s
entrance as Desdemona passed
quickly, and for the rest she was
as beautiful as she was without
guile, and she died like a child
—pleading, not thinking for her
life. Not the least skilful and
convincing business which she
and Quayle managed between
them was the moving tenderness
of their love, an achievement by
no means as simple as it looked
in its final, touching perfection.
Joan MacArthur’s Emilia was
likewise a model for reference.
She held back throughout, a
questionable, uncertain figure,
and then, at the finish, came
with a rush and a depth of hate
and love that , resolved every-
thing about her.
Over and above points and
performances—though contain-
ing them perfectly—was the pro-
duction itself. The set, an affair
of towering pillars and hanging
drapes, was as rich in effect as
it was simple in design. With-
out scene changes, the action
came and went to and from the
stage with a natural, flowing
continuity that, apart from
obliterating any intrusions about
“time schemes” and whatnot,
gave the admirable effect that
time and place and action were
around and beyond the stage
as well as on it.
Then, finally, there was the
continuity and consistency of
Quayle’s overall conception of
the production as distinct from
its physical movement and
beautiful groupings. Here, with
imperceptible pauses for beauty
of word and meaning, you had
love, tenderness, truth and
nobility passing by lies and
monstrous, ugly passions to
final destruction and leaving a
last, silent, aching, tranquility.
You had, in short, a production
of tragedy that struck surely at
the mind and emotions and left
both not a little enriched.
❖ ❖ ♦>
Marchal
Melbourne’s musical white
elephant, the Town Hall organ,
got up on its hind-legs and
danced the other evening under
the amazing ministrations of
French organist Andre Marchal’s
fingers.
There was a naive simplicity
about his opening numbers, com-
posed of 17th-century French
and English pieces, which left the
audience unprepared for the
majesty of Bach and the depth
and color of Caesar Franck’s
Chorale No. 3 in A Minor, but
it was in the Louis Vieme
Symphony to which the. pon-
derous instrument responded in
the most spontaneous fashion.
There was nothing ordinary,
either, in the improvisation the
organist developed on a collec-
tion of a few notes sent up to
him by Dr. A. E. Floyd. The
resultant composition sounded
worthy enough to join the rest
of the programme.
Talkies
“Androcles and the Lion”
Gabriel Pascal and Co.
dragged out Shaw’s 50-page
farce as long as its famous 114-
page preface on Christianity by
lengthening the Christian
prisoners’ march to Rome;
adding one Cato, Chief of
Police, a kind of McCarthy
watching that the Army is not
corrupted by Christians; by
tedious love duets for Jean Sim-
mons and Victor Mature, who
makes a very handsome Roman
captain; and by bits of busi-
ness, such as putting Ferrovius
in chains so that the Centurion,
when ordered to free him, gets
extra point from his hope that
Ferrovius will remember that he
is a Christian.
Robert Newton’s Ferrovius, a
humorous picture of a simple
strong man trying to keep him-
self in check, and Maurice
Evans’s lisping Roman Em-
peror, had real style; Alan
Young was pleasant enough as
the humble tailor who be-
friended the lion that later re-
fused to eat him ; and there were
some good crowd scenes,
especially in the Colosseum,
when beautiful young ladies
clawed their escorts with the
lust for blood as the lion
approached Androcles.
But the total effect was of a
puffing-up and softening: the
wonderful concision of Shaw’s
presentation and the hard bril-
liance of his wit were blurred
to make a Hollywood holiday
—nevertheless, very good enter-
tainment.
♦j ♦> ♦>
“Son of Paleface”
Bob Hope arrives in the Wild
West in search of the fabulous
wealth allegedly salted away by
his wild sire “Paleface” Potter ;
but when the inhabitants find out
who the wondrously garbed
tenderfoot is they become even
wilder, for Paleface, snr,, had,
before departing this world, been
celebrated for his unwillingness
to satisfy bis creditors. Pale-
face jnr.’s efforts to placate these
rudely importunate ones in-
volves his getting into holts with
bandits led by shapely Jane
Russell, and the proceedings
which flow from this give the
comedian ample scope for his
talents.
The gagmen have worked
hard; wisecracks of good brand
fizz off the soundtrack every few
dozen feet, and many of the
situations are uproariously fan-
tastic. Some neat equestrianism
is provided by Roy Rogers and
his handsome mount Trigger.
At Sydney Prince Edward.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“The Miracle of Fatima”
This follows closely—rather
too closely—the pattern set for
miracle-films in “The Song of
Bernadette”: there is the child
—in this case three children —
vouchsafed a vision, her report
of which is at first received by
family and by church and lay
authorities with scepticism and
even hostility; the avid seizing-
on of the belief by the unlettered
populace, and finally the vindica-
tion of the visionary and
recognition by the church of the
miracle —at least this latter is
the impression given. However,
one member of the trio sur-
vives—she is now a nun —and
whether she is raised to Beati-
tude will certainly not be deter-
mined by the church for many
years, and not before long and
thorough investigation of all the
facts seems to justify such a con-
clusion.
The film nevertheless is pre-
sented with charm where the
children are concerned, and has
been handled with reverence. As
the young Portuguese girl to
whom the Virgin chiefly speaks
from misty clouds Susan Whit-
ney is natural and sincere.
Artbursts
Byram Mansell
Byram Mansell’s exhibition at
David Jones’s Gallery, Sydney,
of Barrier Reef monotypes and
silk squares, paintings of Aus-
tralian aboriginal legends and
Australian aboriginal legends in
batik on silk squares, looks
rather like the output of a small
factory in more ways than one —
apart from the quantity and
variety on display there is also
a suggestion of repetition or
process-work, which probably
stems from the artist limiting
himself to his earth-colors and
to the adoption and adaptation
of aboriginal design.
Such repetition tends to be-
come monotonous although
there is a grotesque life and
activity in “Legend of the
Thunder Man”—and the present
commentator prefers Mansell in
his unassumed style, as in “The
Dust Storm, Central Australia,”
where, without apparently resort-
ing to aboriginal motifs, he gets
the heat and dust very' effec-
tively.
The same criticism of
monotony could be levelled at
the Barrier Reef monotypes, but
they have a relieving quality of
brilliance, and some of the
designs, like “Needle Spined Sea
Urchins,” are quite attractive.


The WOMAN OF LABU
by O LAF RUHEN
mm TT WO fish swam lazily into
/ the compass of the light
L j born of the blazing torch.
The woman Biria, spear
upraised, torch lifting, regarded
them dispassionately for a
moment while the torch came
upright above her head. She
lowered it swiftly again, the
draught feeding while it con-
fined the flame, and halted it a
little above the surface of the
water. The flame blazed fat and
rich again, and in that moment
the fish were clearly to be seen ;
and Biria struck with the spear
and took the fatter, heavier fish
upon its points. Torch in one
hand, fish-bearing spear in the
other, she turned methodically
and waded back through the
little surf to walk to the big fire
on the beach.
When she turned the little
woman Ingat turned too, and
came running with her torch and
her empty spear.
“00-oo,” she called. “He’s a
beauty. My word you have the
eye for the fish. Three already.
And I have only a little one.”
She chattered gaily, skipping
sideways and admiring the fish.
“The fish won’t come to you
when you are out of the water,”
Biria snapped. Ingat was always
like this, she thought. Ingat did
little work, and what little she
did was not well done. It was a
game for her, ansl .she could not
take it seriously. And yet Ingat
was well loved. Everyone had a
smile and a word for. her.
C|OME of the people were at
the fire, bringing wood or
just sitting gossiping for com-
pany. Their chatter dropped in
tempo for a second while they
eyed the fish ; and then it lifted
and went on, mingling with the
other sounds of the night, the
frogs and the insects and the
wood snapping in the fire’s heat.
Before them the beach
stretched white and open,
darkening only beyond the point
where the dancing pathway to
the moon angled from it, and
went forever over the dark and
dancing water. All along the
beach the bom-bom torches, rose
and fell, and the red lights
swelled and diminished so that,
if the fisherman was near, you
could see in rhythm his body lit
red and defiant against the dark
water,'and then faded into a
mass that was of the mind more
than the eye. Sometimes the
fisher was a woman, and some-
times there was momentarily a
glimpse of surprising strength
and beauty as the light accented
the upraised spear-arm, the
lifted breast beneath and the
wet lap-lap swathed low on the
belly.
The rhythm of the lights
brought the fish from the darker
corners of the sea, and held
them hypnotised for the spear.
There were other fires on the
beach, and beside each fire a
heap of coconut fronds to make
the torches.
Biria walked over to take a
dry lap-lap from her net carry-
ing-bag, and Ingat protested.
“Once more,” she cried. “It
is too early to go back. Just
once more. I have only one
little fish and I must get another.”
Biria stopped, her hand on the
open billum, and Ingat began to
plead.
“All right,” Biria said, and
already Ingat was running back
to the gentle surf. Biria took a
new torch and lighted it at the
fire and followed.
Within minutes Ingat caught
another little fish and she
laughed and called out, showing
it to everyone, although it was
smaller than any of the three
that had fallen to Biria. And
Biria noted, sourly, that people
took notice of it, too, and made
jokes about little Ingat and her
little fish. She was irritated, and
yet while she felt that way she
wohdered that Ingat, so friendly
and so rich in friends, should
seek her company.
While they dressed, casually
folding clean, dry lap-laps over
the wet ones, then slipping the
latter out from underneath, she
envied the figured cloth that
Ingat kept for best. And her
envy grew as Ingat, following
a fashion new to the place, took
a flower-patterned scarf and tied
it about her neck so that her
breasts lay half-concealed within
the bight of the cloth, for she
had no such clothing, though
sometimes, when she went away
from her village, she wore a
Mother Hubbard, a shapeless
and ugly blouse that was hot on
her unaccustomed skin, though
she felt it looked well enough.
When they were ready they
wrapped the fish in taro-leaves
and placed them with the wet
lap-laps in their billums, their
head-nets of hand-fashioned
cord, and went on their way.
Biria was from the village of
Labu and Ingat from another
smaller place in the hills beyond ;
so their paths ran only a little
way together before they
separated.
As they talked together at the
junction of the paths Ingat said
“Not tomorrow, but the next
day, we will come to bom-bom
the fish again. The moon is so
big it is a shame to waste it.”
They agreed on this, and Ingat
said “We’ll, meet here where the
paths join late in the afternoon
and then walk together to the
beach.”
XI7HEN she was away from
Ingat, walking by herself
on the bush path, Biria won-
dered why she had agreed. She
felt no love for Ingat except
when she was with her, but Ingat
was her only friend, the only
woman who sought her com-
pany, The rest, the women of
her own village, only tolerated
her. Sometimes she said hard
things about Ingat, the useless
woman, tiny and slight, and lazy
as well. But when they were to-
gether Ingat made her happy,
and they laughed together like
children sometimes. There was
no woman in Labu with whom
she laughed.
The responsibility of meeting
Ingat became a little burden to
her, something useless to carry,
and she wished she had not made
the arrangement, but when the
time came she was first at the
junction of the paths, and she
waited, but there was no sign of
the little woman.
She sat for a long time ; then,
because she was a woman who
must always have something to
do, she went up into a high
place above the track and looked
for frogs.
She found three good frogs
and put them in her billum to
take home to her family. Then
she returned to the path, but
Ingat had not arrived.
“The woman must be dead,”
she thought. “Good enough for
her.”
She waited and waited, and it
was nearly dark. As the wind
died she heard the thin sound of
a sing-sing, a faraway wailing
that seemed to come from the
village in the hills. She listened
hard Ho try to make out the
nature of the sing-sing, but the
sound was too tenuous. It lay
right at the very bounds of her
hearing, so that the lift of the
wind blotted it out, and the
surge of the larger waves upon
the beach destroyed it.
“Ingat has died,” she thought,
“and this is the sing-sing for her
death.
“I wonder,” she thought, “just
what was the manner of her
dying.”
And she thought of Ingat the
little woman lying dead, her
bubbling life stilled, and she be-
came filled with sorrow.
“She was a good woman,
though she worked little. She
was my one good friend,” she
thought. And she began to rock
herself backward and forward as
she waited, squatting at the
junction of the paths, but just
at that time she heard something
and looked up to see Ingat com-
ing along the path ; and immedi-
ately she was because
Ingat was there, and was her-
self, and had not changed.
“They’re making a sing-sing
in your village,” she said.
“Why?”
“Oh, they make a sing-sing
about nothing,” said Ingat, and
immediately she asked, “Have
you waited for me long?”
Biria asked no more ques-
tions, but she thought this a
strange thing, that Ingat should
not talk of the sing-sing. It
could have been anything, it
could have been nothing. But
from what she had heard Biria
thought the people had been
singing a death.
However, they went together
a little way along the path, and
there was a place where they set
a fire and cooked themselves
some taro. Biria did most of
the work while Ingat talked, all
the gossip of the village. Once
Biria lifted her head and said
“I hear a sing-sing. Surely there
must be a sing-sing in your vil-
lage” ; but Ingat hardly glanced
into the gathering dark, hardly
stilled her tongue for a moment,
and then said “I hear nothing.”
And she went on with her tale
of young Maiu, and how he was
believed to have consummated
an attachment he had for the
wife of Animari the headman,
and how their place of assign-
ment was beneath the floor of
Animari’s hut, so they could be
warned if he stopped snoring.
There was much more of this,
and the talk went on and on, and
though Biria felt she was doing
most of the work, she loved it
all.
TT was very beautiful in that
-*■ place, and there was a
fragrance from the ginger-lily
and the strong heady smell of
tropic earth and something salty
from the sea beyond. When the
taro was cooked Biria set it out
and began to eat. She ate a
good meal, for they planned on
a long night of fishing, but Ingat
was still talking, and she ate
almost nothing, picking at the
roots only, and not doing more
than taste them.
Biria finished the cooked taro,
for she was a woman who hated
waste, and then they were about
to set out when Ingat had a new
idea.
“Carry me,” she said. “Carry
me on your shoulders like a
piccaninny.” And Biria smiled,
and Ingat climbed on her shoul-
ders and rode along the path.
Biria felt she was being
foolish. She was a woman too
old, she thought, for this kind
of play; but as she went along
she had the strange feeling that
she was carrying her own child.
She was happy in carrying Ingat,
In a little while she took the
cigarette from her mouth and
passed it up to Ingat as she
would have passed it to her
baby, and when Ingat played the
naughty child and did not give
it back Biria chuckled to herself
and did not feel resentful.
“I must be mad,” she thought,
but she was not any the less
happy.
And now Ingat had found the
dead frogs in the billum net, and
she began to eat them, and still
Biria was happy, though Ingat
could quite well have stayed her
stomach earlier with the taro.
But in the silence while Ingat
was eating, Biria, trotting along
the bush-track with Ingat on
her shoulders, heard again the
thin sound of the sing-sing rising
and falling on the evening air,
for now it was very dark. She
heard it; or she thought she
heard it; she was not sure which.
And suddenly a new thought
came to her that shocked the
deeps of her mind; for she
remembered how she had
reckoned Ingat dead while she
waited at the junction of the
paths,
“This is no Ingat, but a devil-
woman,” she thought. “Ingat is
dead and a devil is using her
body.” And she had very great
fear.
It was a terrible thought, and
something beyond her conscious-
ness and her experience, but
Biria was a brave woman, and
she showed no sign. But she felt
sure that the woman on her
shoulders was a devil-woman,
and she counted up the evidence.
The woman had eaten no taro,
but only picked at it.
She had ridden on Biria’s
back, and she had made it seem
to Biria that she carried her own
child.
She had taken Biria’s cigarette
and the frogs for Biria’s family,
and Biria had felt no resentment.
She had not heard the music
of the sing-sing that Biria could
hear, and she had talked of other
things.
Biria was sure now that this
was a devil-woman who was
luring her on through the deeper
parts of the forest,
TJEFORE they could reach the
** sea they had to go through a
thickness of bush that, for some
forgotten reason, held to itself a
bad reputation. When Biria
remembered that too, she stopped
and said “Let’s rest a while.”
She set Ingat down, or she set
down the devil-woman that was
Ingat, and first she set a little
fire.
“We’re- making a fire
already?” Ingat asked in sur-
prise, and Biria answered “I
want to make bom-boms to go
through the black bush ahead,”
Ingat laughed and sat herself
down at the fire. So Biria
brought palm-fronds and made
herself a torch.
She said “While I have the
torch I’ll catch a couple of frogs
to make up for the ones you ate.
I promised Baisa to bring him a
frog, and he loves them very
much.”
And Ingat answered “We have
all night, and there will be some
time before the moon is up and
we are ready to bom-bom the
fish.” Ingat threw a little piece
of wood on the fire and began
to sing to herself.
Biria took the torch and went
up above the track, and there she
tied the torch upright above a
little swampy place, with a vine
to hold it to a tree-stump. The
place she chose caught the little
breezes, and the torch swayed
a little on its base, and the flame
glowed and diminished and its
light ebbed and swelled, so that
Ingat, who could not see the
torch, could nevertheless see its
reflection, and would believe
Biria to be catching her frogs.
But Biria was running, fleet
and fast as a cassowary, running
along the forest track as she had
never run in her life, her unfet-
tered breasts thudding against
her chest, her thighs heedless of
the little obstructions in her
path. She ran and she ran until
she came to her own village of
Labu.
All of her people were in the
village and she told them her
story. She told them that Ingat,
the lively one, the little Ingat, the
beloved Ingat was dead, and that
a devil-woman had taken her
body. She told them that Ingat’s
village was wailing for her death,
while Ingat’s body walked the
forest tracks. She told them how
the devil-woman had tried to
deceive her, to lure her into the
dark thickness of bush on the
way to the sea ; had used her and
worked on her to make of her a
factor in some unholy scheme.
Now, Biria was not a woman
given to imaginings. She was a
housewife as dull of wit as any ;
and though her influence was not
great, the tidings she brought
were alarming. For there was
little doubt but that the devil-
woman, having marked Biria for
her own, would come to claim
her.
So the men of the village went
to work. They built a huge fire
and stacked it with the cooking
stones they used sometimes to
heat the ovens. And across the
path leading to the village from
the beach they dug a huge pit,
and guarding the path they set
men with bows. They did all
this with frantic haste, and when
the stones were hot they took
some and put them in the bottom
of the pit, and covered the pit
over with a lacework of feeble
sticks, and thus hid the pit
beneath a cover of earth, very
hastily fashioned, but neverthe-
less very capable of deceiving an
unwary eye. And then they
waited, and heaped more wood
on the fires, and heated more
stones and set more bowmen
round the. path.
TvrOW, Ingat, while this had
been going was sleepy
by the fire. She waited a long
time, singing a little song to her-
self. Once or twice she looked
up and saw the torchlight glow-
ing, ebbing and increasing
amongst the trees, and she
wished that Biria had not left
her, for she was a woman who
much liked company. By and
by the vine holding the torch
to the tree - stump burned
through, and the torch fell on
the swampy mud beneath, and
was extinguished, and still Ingat
waited by the fire for Biria to
return, for she was a lazy
woman.
A long time went by, and there
was still no Biria, nor could
Ingat hear any sign of her
amongst the trees above the
path. She called to her, and
the forest was immediately
silent, but still Hiriia did not
reply. Ingat called and called.
Then she made herself a torch
of palm-fronds and went to find
her friend.
She searched a long time in
the dark bush, but she found
nothing, and all the time a fear
grew on her, and her thoughts
that were so happy became dark,
and she was frightened. She
came back to the fire and saw
Biria’s billum, with the spare
{Continued on page 22)


Deserving a Memorial
A STRANGE BIRD
IS FOUND
By A. H. CHISHOLM
Fantastic happenings
associated with the early
history of the lyrebird—
and they are many—begin
with the fact that the existence
of a large and strange bird,
believed to be a kind of
pheasant, was reported in 1797
by a wild white man who had
surrendered to authority in the
settlement of Sydney.
Then come the fact that the
first specimen was obtained, in
1798, by a youthful member of
a party that was seeking a “New
World” somewhere south-west
of Parramatta ; the fact that the
story of the discovery was first
published by an author who,
though a foundation resident of
Australia, had never seen or
heard a living lyrebird; and the
further fact that the story was
promptly stolen .by another
author who was masquerading
under thei name of an ex-
pickpocket.
The man who first issued an
account of the discovery of the
lyrebird was David Collins,
Judge Advocate and Colonial
Secretary in Sydney during the
first eight years of settlement,
and afterwards a founder of
Hobart*
From 1797 to 1803 Collins
lived in England, and in that
period, being still moderately
young and energetic (and also in
need of money), he employed
himself very usefully by writing
An Account of, the English
Colony in New South Wales, a
fact-laden work in two volumes.
For the initial portion of his
narrative this chronicler of early
Sydney drew upon his own
experiences, but for the second
volume, covering the period
when he was in England, he had
of necessity to rely on informa-
tion acquired from others.
It is to the second volume, of
course, that the story of the lyre-
bird belongs. The odd thing, in
this regard, is that no example
of the bird was obtained during
the first 10 years of settlement,
for doubtless the species was
represented then (as it is still), in
rough gullies immediately north
of Port Jackson, as well as in
the foothills of the Blue
Mountains.
In his first reference to the
supposed existence of a pic-
turesque bird in the woods near
Sydney, Collins relates that in
November of 1797 a report on
the subject was made by an ex-
convict named James Wilson.
Actually this was John Wilson, a
Lancashire man who arrived with
the First Fleet under sentence of
seven years, and who, after
being released (probably towards
the end of 1792), took to the
bush and lived with aborigines
for several years.
Having “surrendered himself
to the Governor’s clemency,”
under threat of being outlawed,
Wilson told various tales of his
bush adventures. Among them
was a claim that he had seen,
near the head of the Hawkesbury
River, “a bird of the pheasant
species.”
Officials of the settlement
doubted the truth of this parti-
cular pronouncement. Gazing
with disfavor on the wild
white man—who wore only a
kangaroo-skin apron and whose
whole body was scarified with
aboriginal tribal marks—they
developed a suspicion that he
was exercising his imagination
in an attempt to escape punish-
ment.
At all events, the returned
wanderer was given a pardon
(plus, no doubt, a pair of pants
and a shirt and boots), and a
few weeks later the Governor of
the day. Captain John Hunter,
turned his bush knowledge to
more or less practical purpose —
he sent him, as chief guide, on
an excursion that was designed
to shock a number of prisoners
into realisation of the hard
realities of life in the bush.
The basis of the expedition
was the fact that the infant
colony, in 1798, contained a
group of Irish prisoners who had
one particular and colorful idea:
they believed that there existed,
about 200 miles south-west of
Sydney, a New World of white
people; and (says Collins) they
had also conceived the notion
that if they could reach the
idyllic spot “they were assured
of finding all the comforts of
life without the necessity of
laboring for them.”
So strong was the belief in
this fantasy that Hunter was
forced to do something about
it —if only, he said wryly, in
order to save “worthless” lives.
He therefore proposed that four
of the sturdiest of the Irishmen
should go south-west, accom-
panied by Wilson and two other
civilians to see what they could
find.
The , prisoners accepted this
offer. But, soon afterwards, the
authorities learned that a plot
was afoot to murder the. three
guides and steal their equipment,
whereupon Hunter (after sen-
tencing some of the conspirators
to be flogged), added a batch of
armed soldiers to the party.
Then he caused the queer band—
four prisoners, three bushmen
and four soldiers —to start off
from Parramatta, in the height
of summer, to seek the vague
Utopia.
The date was January 14,
1798.
Within 10 days, says Collins,
the Irishmen had become “com-
pletely sick of the journey,” and
were glad to be brought back by
the soldiers. The three guides,
however, had been instructed to
draw practical value from the
journey by examining as much
country as possible, and so they
pushed south-west for an esti-
mated distance of rather more
than 100 miles. Then, being
short of food and extremely
footsore, they struggled back to
the settlement —two of them, in
fact, were in a serious plight and
were saved only through the
bushcraft and resource of
Wilson. \_
Some details of the expedi-
tion’s experiences were given by
the youngest member of the
party, a youth who had travelled
to Australia with Hunter and
become one of his servants. His
story (as summarised by Collins),
included the statement that after
passing the Nepean River, on
January 24, they had seen a
number of “pheasants.”
“They brought in,” Collins
adds, “one of the birds which
they had named pheasants, but
on examination it appeared to be
a variety of the Bird of
Paradise.” A description of the
bird follows, in addition to
which the reader is referred to
“the annexed engraving from the
pencil of a capital artist.”
Later in the same volume
(p. 319) Collins says that after
his early pages had gone to press
he was favored with “a more
minute and ornithological
description of the elegant and
novel bird mentioned in page 92
of the preceding sheets,” and so
he adds a number of field-notes.
These observations, almost
entirely accurate, are the first
printed references to the fact that
the male lyrebird displays his
magnificent tail while standing
on “a small hillock,” and to the
near-fact that he imitates the
notes of “every bird in the
country.”
Also, Collins was the first
writer to use in a book the
scientific title first applied to the
lyrebird, namely Menura
superba; it had been published
in a London scientific journal in
the same year (1802).
In view of all this, it seems
rather a pity that when Colonel
Collins again lived in Australia
—from 1803, when he founded a
short-lived settlement near Port
Phillip, to 1810, when he died in
Hobart—he was never in a spot
frequented by “pheasants,” and
so he missed the pleasure of see-
ing a living specimen of the
“elegant and novel bird” which
formed, in both color-plate and
descriptive matter, such a strik-
ing feature of his story of early
Sydney.
In 1804 Collins’s two volumes
we r e republished in an abridged
edition of one volume, edited by
his wife. From this work the
first report of the existence of the
bird (1797) is omitted and the
notes on habits, as given in the
appendix to the volume of 1802,
are printed as a footnote to the
story of the discovery; that is,
the return of Wilson and the two
others with their “pheasant.”
Following closely upon the
tribute it received in the Collins
book, the newly - found
“pheasant” was given attention
also, again through both letter-
press and a color-plate, in The
History of New South Wales,
the title-page of which —dated,
like Collins’s second volume,
1802 —claims that the work was
written by George Barrington,
the remarkable ex-pickpocket
who became Superintendent of
Convicts in New South Wales.
Actually, that “History” was
not published in 1802 but in
1803, and it was not written by
Barrington but by an enterpris-
ing journalist who supposed that
the name would have sales value.
It need scarcely be added that
the pseudo Barrington, who stole
natural history as neatly as the
real Barrington stole purses,
lifted the, whole of his
“pheasant” material (with
remarkable promptitude) from
Collins,
A second theft of the kind
occurred immediately after-
wards. In this case the culprit
was Dr. George Shaw, Director
of the British Museum —he pub-
lished the Collins notes on the
habits and song of Menura in a
scientific journal of 1803 ( The
Naturalist’s Miscellany) without
making any reference to their
source. The idea appears to
have been that as Collins had not
acknowledged his informant,
there was no necessity to
acknowledge Collins.
It is highly probable that
Collins did not know, precisely,
who obtained the first specimen
of the “Bird of Paradise.” It is
also probable that he did not
know whether the same man or
a second person was responsible
for the information regarding the
bird’s display and mimicry.
For another thing, it seems
quite likely that he was unaware
that the report relating to the
discovery—that is, the report of
the “New World” expedition—
had been submitted in writing.
This interesting circumstance was
not revealed until many years
later.
The fact is that Governor
Hunter, when starting the
expedition off on its vague
travels, bore in mind that his
bright young servant could read
and write, and so instructed him
to “enter in a paper the obser-
vations which the journey might
suggest.” The lad did so, not in
great detail but to a very useful
extent. Moreover he made
similar notes when, soon after
the party’s return, the Governor
sent him again, with Wilson and
two other men, to make a further
examination of the country to
the south-west of Parramatta.
Hunter made no reference to
these journals (nor to the dis-
covery of the new bird) in his
official reports to London. He
appears to have regarded the
two diaries as his own property ;
and, fortunately, he realised that
they had practical value. He
therefore safeguarded them,
took them with him to England
some 18 months later, and put
them away among his personal
papers.
In July of 1801, rather more
than a year after his return to
London, Hunter disinterred the
journals and sent them to Sir
Joseph Banks. Banks, no doubt,
read them with interest—for he
had previously expressed to
Hunter a yearning to migrate to
Australia and settle beside the
Hawkesbury River but he
returned them a few weeks later.
Then, fortunately again, Hunter
again sent them to Banks, saying
that he had intended that Sir
Joseph should keep them.
That was how the documents
containing the first written refer-
ences to the lyrebird became part
of the Banks Papers; and, *of
course, it was through chancing
to be among those Papers, which
in turn were preserved only by
good fortune, that the two
modest diaries entered the
Historical Records of New South
Wales —they were published in
1895 (just on 100 years after
being written), as an appendix to
Vol. 3, which deals with the
Hunter period.
The extraordinary fact is that
these casual bush jottings, written
by a mere youngster, passed
from time to time through the
custody of at least nine persons
(including a Governor, two
knights and a lord) before being
returned to the land of their
origin. Now, by favor of the
Goddess of Fortune, they are in
the possession of the Mitchell
Library, Sydney.
In the original, no doubt, the
Barracks records were rough and
grubby notes bearing the travel-
stains inevitable in such cases.
Subsequently—soon after the
expeditions’ return —either the
author or an amanuensis copied
them on to paper of good
quality, writing very neatly in
black ink reinforced by lines
ruled in red.
It seems obvious that this work
was done by direction of the
Governor and was carried out at
Government House, which
building, incidentally, stood only
a few hundred yards from where
the documents now rest.
Curiously, not one of Hunter’s
written comments on the expedi-
tions of 1798, including his letter
to Banks, contains the name of
the author of the narratives. No
less curiously, the name has be-
come available through a casual
reference by Hunter’s successor
as Governor, P. G. King: he,
when writing to Earl Camden in
1805 regarding the nature of the
Cow Pastures (now the district
of Camden), mentioned inci-
dentally the name of the first
recorder of distances in the area.
That name was Barracks.
The significance attaching to
King’s reference passed
unnoticed when, in 1897, his
report to Earl Camden was pub-
lished in the Historical Records
of New South Wales, but when
the same document was being
published again, in 1915, in the
Historical Records of Australia,
the reference to Barracks caught
the discerning eye of the editor,
Frederick Watson, and he
promptly linked the name with
the anonymous writer of the
two. diaries of 1798.
Thus the youthful Barracks
gained a place in Australian
history.
A few years later (1920) the
subject was taken up more
definitely, in the “Journal” of
the Royal Australian Historical
Society, by R. H. Cambage. In
a lengthy and informative paper,
Cambage traced the tracks of
both expeditions of 1798, assessed
the value of the geographical
discoveries made, and gave
credit to both Wilson and
Barracks, the one for his bush-
craft and stamina and the other
for his enterprise and fortitude.
Where Cambage failed was in
the matter of natural history. He
made, it is true, some useful
points concerning plants, but,
not having extended his botani-
cal knowledge to birds, he com-
pletely overlooked the import-
ance of the references to
“pheasants” in both the Collins
book and the Barracks journals.
Firstly, when assessing Wilson’s
record from Collins’s book he
made the mistake of using the
abbreviated edition of 1804, and
so missed the basic report of the
existence of the strange bird.
and more unfor-
tunately, when omitting what he
regarded as the less important
parts of the Barracks diaries, he
struck out the record of the
shooting of a “pheasant” on
January 26, 1798, obviously
being unaware that this speci-
men was the first example of the
lyrebird ' ever collected by a
white man.
The observations by Barracks
relating to the first journey be-
gin on January 24 (1798), when
the party left Mount Hunter —
near the site of the present town
of Camden —and travelled 12
miles to a bend of the Nepean
River. There the explorers saw
their first “pheasants” —two
birds. They did not obtain a
specimen then, but they did pro-
cure one two days later.
“The ground very rockey and
brushey,” Barracks records on
the 26th. “Here I shot a bird
about the size of a pheasant, but
the tail of it very much
resembles a peacock.... ”
Later in the journey the ad-
venturers saw “many pheasants”
(as well as large numbers of
“emews” and kangaroos, a
sprinkling of rock-wallabies and
an animal “which Wilson called
a whom-bat”), but they did not
obtain any more specimens. In
point of fact, they were for-
tunate to have been able to pre-
serve the one skin of such a
large bird during a fortnight of
hot and wet weather.
The trophy, incidentally, must
have been carried by Wilson, for
Barracks and the third member
of the party —stated to have
been named Roe —were both
suffering severely from badly
cut feet and general sickness.
Apparently that first journey
terminated near the junction of
the Wingecarribee and Wollon-
dilly Rivers, about 20 miles to
the west of the present town of
Mittagong. The second expedi-
tion, which was undertaken by
Wilson, Barracks, Henry Hack-
ing (ex-quartermaster of the
Sirius) and a man named Col-
lins, and which extended from
March 9 to April 3 (1798), pene-
trated farther south-west, its
turning-point being Mount Tow-
rang, near the present city of
Goulburn.
During the second journey
the enterprising Wilson shot
three “pheasants.” The one
fifst obtained was spoiled by
heavy rain (only a portion of
the tail being saved), but the
other two specimens were
cafried back to Sydney. There,
naturally, they were presented
to his Excellency the Governor.
On the whole, those two
journeys were fruitful ornitho-
logically, and it is curious that
{Continued on page 34)


mulvaney throws a party
by A.C.Headley
THERE are many who claim
credit for the removal of
First-class Constable David
Dillin. There is Tim Sing,
who allows it to be reputed that
he “has the ear” of a Federal
Member, and is prepared to be
conspicuously mysterious about
the whole affair. There is Rod
Sewing, who volunteers the in-
formation that a niece of his is
“going steady” in the city with
no less a person than a cousin
of the Commissioner of Police.
Bannister speaks of Constable
Dillin and the power of the
trade-unions in the same breath.
There are many, indeed, who
would be glad to have had a
finger in this particular pie, for
in the two years of his stay in the
township the kindest thing that
could be said for First-class Con-
stable Dillin was that he had not
made friends. Yet, for all the
claims, the truth of the matter
is that it was a simple applica-
tion for transfer filed by the con-
stable himself.
To look deeper for causes is
to come to the matter of Mick
Mulvaney’s home-brew. The
reference is not to the present
perfection that has come to Mul-
vaney in the art of making a
beer that puts a tremble in your
toes with the very first sip. It
goes back to Mulvaney’s initial
venture in rectifying an omis-
sion on the part of brewing in-
terests to take care of the simple
needs of Mulvaney and his
friends. It was a venture, too,
prompted by Constable Dillin’s
insistence that closing-time had
some connection with the posi-
tion of hands on his watch.
“A man is likely to be dead of
thirst by morning,” Mulvaney
complained. “The man is no
less than a fiend with the ears
of him blocked against the cries
of the sick and suffering. No
doubt he’ll laugh when he sees
me crawling on my hands and
knees into Harrigan’s Railway
Hotel in the mornings. It’s a
matter I’d like brought out at the
inquest.”
“An inquest is more likely to
follow your crawling out of
Harrigan’s,” Mrs. Mulvaney
commented drily.
TifULVANEY pursed his lips.
“Is it cavilling you are at
the small stimulant I take daily
to keep the strength in my
body?” He used the words not
as a question but as a com-
mentary on the inhumanity of
woman. He paused, then con-
tinued; “The whole matter of
this Constable Dillon has been
a terrible shock to me nervous
system.”
A fresh thought struck him.
“And there i.s Harrigan, too,
sitting in his hotel at night with
a loneliness that must be un-
bearable to him. He tells me
he lies awake at night praying
for opening-time in the morning
so there will be someone to pass
the time of day with him.”
“There are some,” said Mrs.
Mulvaney Cautiously, “who are
of the opinion that Constable
Dillin is doing a fine job.”
“There are some,” Mulvaney
retorted, “who eat their
children,”
Mrs. Mulvaney shrugged thin
shoulders.
» “There’s nothing you can do
about it.”
Mulvaney rubbed a finger
along his thick jaw.
“There’s a little matter I’ve
been thinking about,” he said
slowly. “It’s a little matter of
the manufacture of home-brew.”
“You’ll not be using my
copper,” Mrs. Mulvaney said
firmly.
“Has there been any
talk of coopers,”
Mulvaney inquired
pleasantly. “Four-
gallon honey-tins were
the vessels I was think-
ing of.”
Mrs. Mulvaney
sought escape.
“And the moment
you start making it
Constable Di 11 in ’ s
sharp nose will come
sniffing along the front
path and there’ll be
thousands of pounds
in fines to be paid.”
Mulvaney waved a
hand.
“The rich smell of
hops and malt is with
it only for the couple
of hours of its boiling.
It will happen when to
Constable Dillin’s ears conies the
whisper of a two-up game in the
bush ten miles out. I’ve already
made plans for the night.”
Mrs. Mulvaney placed hands
on her thin hips.
“It’s the same night I’m visit-
ing my sister Vera.”
Mulvaney looked at her.
“I’ve given no mention of the
night yet,” he said.
“It’s the same night I’m visit-
ing my sister Vera,” said Mrs.
Mulvaney patiently.
ON the evening Mrs. Mulvaney
visited her sister Vera, Mul-
vaney went to work. With the
handwritten recipe before him,
he carefully measured out the
ingredients. Already, on the
stove, four four-gallon tins of
water were bubbling. Mulvaney
tied hops in four separate pieces
of cheesecloth and dropped them
into the tins.
Immediately a rich aroma
filled the kitchen. Mulvaney
waited a few minutes, then, ex-
perimentally, he walked to the
corner pf the street and came
back towards the house. Fif-
teen yards from the corner the
rich smell of hops met and wel-
comed him. He grinned, think-
ing of First-class Constable
Dillin searching for a non-
existent two-up school in the
scrub.
The next day Mulvaney moved
into an agony of waiting. In
each of the tins he watched the
yeast work itself to a creamy
head before, following the direc-
tions, he skimmed it away. To
his nostrils came the rich smell
of malt and hops. For seven
days of this operation his
patience was strained ; then, fol-
lowing an afternoon of bottle-
washing, he bottled. That night
he sat looking at the bottles with
unconcealed pride. It looked
like beer ; ,it smelt like beer. The
only decision that remained was
left to the palate.
“She’ll be ready in a week,”
he told Mrt. Mulvaney.
“I can hardly wait,” said Mrs.
Mulvaney.
“Think of it,” Mulvaney cried
exultantly; “seventy-one quarts
of beautiful beer. We oughta
have a party to celebrate.”
“Over my dead body,” said
Mrs. Mulvaney feelingly.
DY ten the next morning Mick
Mulvaney had invited nine
of his friends to the party. He
informed Mrs. Mulvaney that
evening.
When she had recovered her
temper to some degree she in-
quired acidly: “What if the
stuff’s no good?”
It was a possibility that -had
not entered Mulvaney’s mind.
“Of course it’s good,” he said.
“It couldn’t be anything else.
Didn’t I follow the instructions
to a T?”
“Don’t you think you ought
to try a bottle first?”
Mulvaney’s lips tightened. His
ability as a brewer was being
questioned.
“Well open a bottle,” he said
slowly, “when our guests are
assembled and not before.”
Afterwards Mulvaney released
the information that it was a
week to try the patience of a
saint. If anything, First-class
Constable Dillin had been more
diligent than ever in the carry-
ing out of those duties apper-
taining to the licensing laws. He
had even gone so far as to run-
in Mick Kenny for being drunk
and disorderly.
“It’s nothing more than vic-
timisation,” said Mick. “Drunk,
he says, when I hadn’t had more
than fifteen schooners, or thir-
teen if you count the way Harri-
gan has of putting a collar on a
drop. You could say a man
was practically stone-cold
sober.”
The week gone at last, in the
hour before his guests were due
to arrive, Mulvaney took stock
of his preparations. The space
by the side of the sink glittered
with empty glasses. The sink
itself made a resting-place for
three large glass jugs. Mulvaney
surveyed the scene approvingly,
then he opened the door of the
pantry to look with pride on the
rows of quarts filled with home-
brew. Closing the door, he
stepped back into the kitchen
and looked at his watch.
“Don’t worry,” said Mrs.
Mulvaney, “they’ll be in the
door by the time your hand
touches a cork.”
“I told ’em eight,” Mulvaney
said. “It’s a quarter to.”
He was aware that his wife’s
attitude was not one of warmth
and co-operation. In sober con-
templation he realised that the
evening promised little more
than hard work for her. Con-
scious of his shyness, he placed
an arm awkwardly across her
shoulders,
“Don’t worry, old girl. I’ll
give you a hand with the clean-
ing-up when it’s all over.”
She looked at him coldly.
“More likely you’ll be snoring
your ugly fat head off.”
Mulvaney drew back his arm,
immediately sorry he had made
the gesture.
“Youse women is all the
same,” he said.
808 TRUE and Joe Sleeper,
the first of the guests, arrived
at five to eight, and from that
moment the front door was in-
vaded at regular intervals. The
men came into the house and
Mulvaney brought them through
to the kitchen. They stood
around awkwardly, and when
Mulvaney found chairs for them
their awkwardness increased.
One and all, they eyed Mrs.
Mulvaney defensively.
Joe Sleeper brought up the
subject of the visit. “Well,” he
demanded, “where is it?”
It was Mulvaney’s moment.
With the manner of a celebrity
about to launch a fifty-thousand-
ton liner he approached the door
of the pantry and threw it open.
He waved a hand.
“There it is,” he said trium-
phantly. “The finest drop ever
made by human hand. Seventy-
one quarts of it.”
Someone said “I’ve tasted
home-brews that’d curl your
hair,”
Mulvaney helped himself to
four of the quarts and stepped
back with them into the kitchen.
Three he placed on the table by
the sink, then he gave the other
his full attention. With a razor-
blade he severed the string hold-
ing the cork, then carefully he
commenced the delicate opera-
tion of easing the cork out. The
next moment the cork hit the
ceiling. Beer fountained after it.
Mulvaney clapped his hand
across the neck of the bottle in
a frantic effort to save the
precious contents, but the only
purpose this action served was
to widen the angle of dispersal.
Beer sprayed the kitchen. Mul-
vaney called hoarsely for some-
one to bring a jug.
A hand thrust one before him
and into it he upended the quart.
In an instant the jug was filled
with froth. He filled the other
two jugs with froth before the
quart bottle ceased to erupt.
Only then did Mulvaney stand
back.
“Not like your wishy-washy
pub beer,” he commented. “This
stuff’s got a bit of life in it.”
He nodded to the jugs. “Won’t
take it long to settle.”
It took longer to settle than
Mulvaney had anticipated. At
the end of ten minutes all that
showed in each of the jugs was
a thin, slightly cloudly, amber
line. Mulvaney was a man who
reacted to atmosphere, and he
was aware of a certain restive-
ness in his guests. He made a
quick decision, and from the
three jugs filled a single glass.
“We’ll try her to see how she
goes. We can all take a sip.”
He handed the glass to Bob
True. Bob took a sip and wiped
froth from his thin moustache,
“She’ll do me.”
rr was the concensus when the
ceremony had been completed,
Mulvaney grinned and took one
of the other quarts.
“It’s just the matter of gettin’
the knack of openin’ them up,”
he announced confidently. “This
time I’ll whip the cork out quick
and straight into the jug with it.
I guarantee I don’t spill a drop.”
Wit'll the second quart beer
sprayed the wall for only the
briefest of moments, then the
brew was gurgling into one of the
jugs. Mulvaney filled the second
and third jugs.
“Try an empty glass in the
jug an’ she’ll pour without
froth,” Joe Sleeper suggested. “I
seen it done with a fresh keg
once.”
Mulvaney tried the suggestion,
to discover that the glass made
all the difference. He filled half
a dozen glasses and, with his
new-found experience, opened
the other two quarts and filled
the rest. Mulvaney took rp a
position in the centre of the
kitchen and held his glass to the
light.”
“Here’s to Constable Dillin,”
he said sarcastically, and raised
the glass to his lips.
The action coincided with the
sharp crash of an explosion.
Heads jerked towards the pantry.
Frpm where he was standing
Mulvaney could see the great
splash of beer on the pantry
wall.
“Musta been a weak bottle,”
said Bob True sympathetically.
“Beer and broken glass all
over me pantry,” wailed Mrs,
Mulvaney.
Someone said “I was reading
the other day about a bottle of
soft drink that exploded. Bit of
glass chopped right through the
feller’s juggler. Bled t’ death
in thirty seconds. Just shows.”
Mulvaney scratched the back
of his neck. “Stands to reason
y’ strike a crook bottle occa-
sionally. I probably give it a
bit of a knock when I was
cleanin’ it out. I’ll get another
couple and we’ll do ’em over.”
He took a step towards the
pantry. As he did another bottle
exploded with the sharp report
of a pistol-shot. Broken glass
shattered against the pantry
wall. Mulvaney stopped dead.
Two explosions followed in
rapid succession. Mulvaney
mustered a feeble grin.
“I musta give them bottles a
bit of knockin’ about.”
“Me pantry,” wailed Mrs.
Mulvaney. “Only did it out day
before yest’y. There’ll be beer
in everything.”
MULVANEY’S lips tightened.
He moved towards the
pantry once again. Another
explosion timed his arrival at
the door. A sliver of glass
whistled past his ear. Mulvaney
retreated, his face pale.
“Be an idea to close the
pantry door,” Bob True sug-
gested.
Mulvaney picked up a broom
and hooked it around the edge
of the pantry door. With a
swift movement he drew it shut.
A crash of glass on the wood-
work followed. Mulvaney
looked around him. No eyes
met his. They waited. From
the pantry came no sound, Joe
Sleeper drained the last of the
beer in his glass and sucked at
the froth. He squared his
shoulders.
“Don’t know about youse
blokes,” he said, “but I reckon
it’s time we had another drink.”
He moved towards the pantry
door and his hand found the
knob. He twisted it and opened
the door a couple of inches.
Nothing happened. Joe Sleeper
grew bolder. He gave the door
a push and stepped into the
opening. The sharp crack of
an explosion rang out. Joe gave
an agonised howl and clutched
at his shoulder.
Someone yanked at the door
with the broom and slammed it
shut. Slowly Joe Sleeper turned.
Through his fingers blood was
staining the front of his shirt
high on the shoulder. At the
sight of it Mrs. Mulvaney
screamed and fainted.
At the same time an authori-
tative knock shook the front
door. Silence made a swift in-
vasion of the kitchen. Eyes
turned towards Mulvaney. He
licked his lips.
“I better take a look through
the curtain.”
He vanished through the
house. Five seconds later he


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BRIAN DAWSON THOMAS late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that MARIE
NARELLE THOMAS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 892 of 1958 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 20th day of
July 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MERVYN
FINLAY & COMPANY, Solicitors, New-
lands House, 141 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
AMPOL EXPLORATION LIMITED
Inoorporated in New South Wales on 9th January, 1953.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
of an issue of 1,200,000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each at Par.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
10,000,000 Shares of 5/- each £2,500,000
ISSUED CAPITAL
2.800.000 Fully-paid Vendor Shares of 5/- each
NOW OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION
1.200.000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each
HELD IN RESERVE
6,000,000 Shares of 5/- each
10,000,000
700.000
V '
300.000
1,500,000
£2,500,000
DIRECTORS
LESLIE JAMES THOMPSON, Chartered Accountant (Aust.), Chairman of Directors of Ampol Petroleum Limited, Buchanan
St., Balmain, N.S.W., Chairman. . „ , , _
PERCIYAL JOHN ADAMS, Director of Ampol Petroleum Limited and Chairman of Directors of Ampol (Alba) Petr u
Pty. Ltd., 340 Flinders St., Melbourne. Vic.
WILLIAM GASTON WALKLEY, Managing Director. Ampol Petroleum Limited, Buchanan St., Balmain, N.S.W.
WALTER McELLISTER LEONARD. General Manager, Ampol Petroleum Limited, Buchanan St., Balmain, N.S.W.
CHARLES EDWIN KNIFE, Treasurer, Ampol Petroleum Limited, Buchanan St., Balmain, N.S.W.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE
EDWARD OSCAR FOSTER, Buchanan St., Balmain, N.S.W.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY
The Company has been formed (a) to acquire from Ampol
Petroleum Limited the interests of that Company in West
Australian Petroleum Pty. Limited which is carrying on oil
exploration work in Western Australia, (b) Acquiring and
taking over the rights and obligations of Ampol Petroleum
Limited under an Agreement dated 12th June, 1952, between
California Texas Corporation, Ampol Petroleum Limited
and West Australian Petroleum Pty. Limited, which is
referred to as the Venture Agreement, (c) Taking up such
other shares in West Australian Petroleum Pty. Ltd., as may
from time to time become available under the terms of the
said Venture Agreement.
TERMS OF THE ISSUE
6d. per share on application and the balance of 4/6 per
share in calls not exceeding 1/- per share over a period
not exceeding one year from the date of allotment. A first
call of 6d. per share will be made immediately after the
date of allotment.
INCOME TAX CONCESSION
One-third of the amount of calls paid to Ampol Exploration
Limited in respect of this issue will be an allowable
deduction in the terms of Section 78 (1) (b) of the Income
Tax and Social Services Contribution Assessment Act
1936-1952.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION
The Minimum Amount which in the opinion of the Directors
must be raised by the issue of these Shares in order to
provide the sums required to be provided in respect, of
each of the following matters is:—
(1) For the purchase of property, the whole
cost of which is to be defrayed out of the
procCWs of this issue—loo,ooo Shares
of £1 each in West Australian Petroleum
Pty. Limited
(2) Preliminary expenses (excluding brokerage
and commission but including Stamp Duty,
legal expenses, registration fees, etc.) —
estimated
(8) Brokerage in respect of this issue—esti-
mated
(4) Working Capital
£lOO.OOO
6.000
10,000
34,000
Total .. £150,000
No amounts are to be provided in respect of the matters
aforesaid otherwise than out of the proceeds of this issue.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES
The issue opens on 27th April, 1953, and will close on Ist
June, 1953, but the Directors reserve the right to close
the issue earlier.
Priority of allotment in respect of one-half of the issue
will be granted to applications by Share-Stock holders
in Ampol Petroleum Limited, as at the 24th April, 1953.
Applications for shares will be accepted only on one of the
forms of application endorsed upon a printed _ copy of the
full Prospectus dated 24th April, 1953, copies of which
may be obtained from the Company’s registered Office, from
the office of the Company’s Brokers (Messrs. A. D. Meares
& Bishop) of Associated Brokers, or from other members
of recognised Stock Exchanges in Australia.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE
A. ». MEARES & BISHOP, 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange with whom are associated for the purpose of the issue.
Victoria:
L. J. Callaway, 423 Little Collins St., Melbourne,
and
Ray Ohrbom, 423 Little Collins St., Melbourne,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Western Australia;
T. A. James & Co. 104 St. George's Terrace, Perth.
Members of the Stock Exchange of Perth.
Queensland:
Charles Elliott & Son, 356-358 Queen St., Brisbane.
Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange.
South Australia:
E. C. C. Hodge, 22 Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Member of the Stock Exchange of Adelaide.
Newcastle:
J. H. Clack & Co., 10 Bolton St., Newcastle.
Members of Newcastle Stock Exchange.
The requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act, 1936, of the State of New South Wales have not been fully com
with in this abridged notice which is for advertisement only.
lap-lap for swimming, and her
lime-gourd for the chewing of
betel, and all the little things
with which a woman would not
willingly part. She took the
billum in her hand and went
back along the path to seek her
friend, or to tell others that she
had gone,
At the junction of the paths
she hesitated, but her duty was
clear, and she took the road that
led to Labu.
Behind her the dark pursued,
and the mystery of the night that
had at a stroke become so full of
mystery, so empty of a friend;
and when she was just a little
way along the path she began to
run ; and fear ran behind her,
and panic caught up with her,
and she cried out, a fearsome lost
sound that was of that night of
fear; and so, running madly,
she came upon the village of
Labu, and the bowmen loosed
their arrows, and in the same
moment she fell into the pit upon
the hot stones and was no more,
All the people of Labu came
and piled the cooking stones
from the fire upon her little body
that was so light, so proper a
vessel for her happiness; and
she was baked like a pig in the
oven until there was little left
of her. In the morning the
villagers of Labu took what little
there was and buried it in a
grave a long way from the
village, and they planted
bamboos on the grave. Only
then were they satisfied, and they
said “The devil-woman is no
more. She is dead truly.”
T}ACH man told the story of
•*-' what he had seen. Englaf,
an old man, said “When she
burst from the bush her face was
full of hatred, and her belly was
hot with anger against us all.
And truly, if the woman Biria
had not been wise, last night
might have been the end of us
all.”
“Truly her belly was hot
against us all,” they agreed ; and
they talked a great deal about
the night, though there was little
more they could say. And for
the first time in her life, for she
was a silent woman, Biria talked
more than anyone,
“Her eyes flashed with hatred,
and her mouth worked with
anger and she screamed at us
all,” she said. “But most of all,
her hatred was for me, this devil-
woman. She hated me most be-
cause I tricked her with the torch
to gain time for us, out there in
the bush. And truly I was close
to death. I carried death on my
shoulders like a child.”
But once, sitting quietly, she
said “It is sad about Ingat, for
she was a happy woman, and I
was her friend. My heart was
always turned to her. I was
fond of her, and I used to do
whatever she asked of me. It is
sad about her. I will never have
another friend like her.”
was back. “It’s Dillin,” he
whispered hoarsely.
Above the whisper came the
sound of • First-class Constable
Dillin’s voice.
“Open,” it said, “in the name
of the law.”
Mulvaney licked his lips and
took a swift look around the
kitchen. The jugs and most of
the glasses were in the sink. He
pointed to one of the cupboards.
“Get this stuff out of the
way. I’ll see what he wants.”
■pROM the front doon the
knocking came with in-
creased vigor. Mulvaney turned
and, with the air of a man meet-
ing his executioner, made his
way to the front door. He
opened it and Constable Dillin’s
face was thrust into his.
“What goes on here?” de-
manded Dillin. “I heard a shot
and a scream.”
Mulvaney nodded pleasantly.
“Musta been the radio. We got
it turned up loud.”
Dillin’s aggressiveness
evaporated slightly.
“Oh.”
“It’s one of them gangster
serials,” Mulvaney elaborated.
“I been following it. It’s the
part where the Phantom gets
the girl so he can make Paul
Coventry walk into a trap. At
the finish there’s the sound of a
shot and the girl screams. That’s
what you musta heard.”
Dillin’s nose was in his face
again.
“The Phantom isn’t on to-
night,” Dillin said slowly. “It’s
a Tuesday and Thursday pro-
gramme,”
A sharp explosion came from
behind Mulvaney. It was fol-
lowed an instant later by Mrs.
Mulvaney’s ear-piercing scream.
First-class Constable Dillin
stepped back a pace. He thrust
a hand under the tail of his
coat. When it reappeared it was
holding a gun.
“Out of my way, Mulvaney.
I’m going in.”
An arm thrust Mulvaney back
against the wall. Dillin strode
through the house with Mul-
vaney following apprehensively
behind. Dillin entered the
kitchen and his eyes swept the
scene.
In the corner Joe Sleeper was
mopping at his shoulder with a
bloodstained handkerchief. Bob
True was busy sprinkling water
over Mrs. Mulvaney, who had
fainted for the second time,
Dillin’s hand tightened on his
gun. “What’s been going on
here?” he demanded.
There was no answer.
Constable Dillin’s jaw har-
dened perceptibly. “Well?”
Mulvaney behind him eyed
the pantry door. At any
moment, he realised, another
bottle was likely to burst and
give the game away entirely.
The important thing was to get
Constable Dillin out of the way
quickly. He coughed apologeti-
cally.
“Matter of fact there’s noth-
ing in it. Constable. Joe was
carrying an empty glass and he
slipped on the floor. A bit of
glass dug into his shoulder.”
Mulvaney twisted his head to-
wards his wife. “The sight of
blood always makes the missus
put on a bit of a turn. We
didn’t want to make any fuss
about it. We were just going to
fix Joe up with a lump of stick-
ing-plaster.”
Dillin looked around the
kitchen. ‘
“Where’s the glass?” he de-
manded suspiciously.
For the briefest of moments
Mulvaney looked blank, then he
rallied.
“I tossed it out the window
intothe garden,” he said, think-
ing of the impenetrable jungle
of the backyard.
Dillin’s brow knuckled.
“What about the sound of a
shot?”
Mulvaney waved his hand.
“A door slamming.”
Dillin’s frown deepened, and
Mulvaney moved towards the
door, trusting that the action
would be construed by Dillin in
the manner it was meant. He
stifled a sigh of thankfulness as
he saw Dillin lift the tail of his
tunic and drop the gun back
into its holster.
At that rqoment, loud and
clear in the silence, came the
sound of an explosion from
behind the pantry door.
CONSTABLE DILLIN
stopped in his tracks and
wheeled.
“Who’s in there?” he de-
manded.
No one answered. Dillin’s
eyes hardened. He looked
around the room. His eyes lit
on Mrs. Mulvaney.
“Get the women out of here,”
Dillin ordered sharply, his voice
suggesting that the room was
crowded with women all in
danger of sudden death.
Magically, the gun was in
Constable Dillin’s hand again.
He advanced on the pantry
door, and, standing on one side,
gave it a sharp rap with the
nose of the gun. In the kitchen
men held their breaths. Dillin
rapped again.
“It’s the police,” he said.
“Drop those guns and come out
with your hands high. I’ll give
you just ten seconds.”
Two sharp explosions came
from the pantry. Something
struck hard against the door.
Constable Dillin moved back
a little from the position he
occupied. He licked his lips.
Behind him the men were watch-
ing him with wide-eyed wonder.
Dillin’s thin neck twisted to-
wards them,
“Down on the floor the whole
lot of you,” he ordered crisply,
“We don’t want more blood-
shed than we can help.”
“8ut...” ventured Mulvaney.
“Down on the floor,” snarled
Dillin, “and keep flat.” He
turned his attention to the
pantry door. “Three seconds to
go,” he called sharply. “If
you’re not out by then I’m put-
ting a couple of bullets through
the door.”
A sharp report came from
the pantry. Dillin’s jaw
tightened.
“You’ve asked for it,” he
yelped.
He aimed the gun at the
lower part of the pantry door
and pulled the trigger. The
bullet must have lodged among
the home-brew bottles, for a
whole chorus of explosions fol-
lowed. Broken glass beat a
tattoo on the inside of the pantry
door.
“Me pantry!” wailed Mrs.
Mulvaney.
But in Constable Dillin’s eye
now was a gleam that could
only have been produced by a
posthumous George Medal. A
leap carried him across the
kitchen to press against the wall.
His hand found the knob of the
pantry door, and with a swift
movement he kicked the door
open. He pumped three swift
shots into the dark interior.
From the pantry came silence.
A minute ticked slowly away.
Pressed back against the wall,
Constable Dillin waited. Then,
throwing caution to the winds,
he stepped into the opening. At
that precise moment another of
the bottles exploded.
Dillin’s fingers released their
grip on the gun and it dropped
to the floor ; then, with an
agonised howl, he clapped hands
to his stomach and crumpled.
IN the kitchen the men looked
at each other. There was a
moment of silence, then Mul-
vaney laughed. He crossed the
kitchen to where Dillin was
lying, bent down and from the
folds of the constable’s tunic
produced a cork.
Dillin stopped moaning to
look at it. For a moment his
face was blank. He sat up to
examine his stomach. No bullet-
hole or blood marred the surface
of the blue serge. Unbelievingly
Dillin’s eyes turned towards the
pantry.
Mulvaney reached up and
flicked on the switch. Broken
glass littered the floor of the
pantry. Beer-froth hung from
walls, ceiling and shelves. Mul-
vaney gently closed the door.
First-class Constable Dillin
climbed slowly to his feet, his
face a bright crimson. He
looked at Mulvaney and made
a valiant attempt to save some-
thing from the wreck.
“You’re going up, Mulvaney,”
he grated, “Making beer with-
out a license is a serious
offence.”
Mulvaney said softly “There’ll
be plenty of witnesses for the
prosecution, each one telling a
little bit of the story. There’ll
be them maybe that’ll like to
talk about the courage of Con-
stable Dillin. There’ll be them,
maybe, who’ll be making the
suggestion of a medal for
bravery. I can see it in the head-
lines. ‘Courageous Constable
Battles with Beer.’ It’ll be quite
a feather iff your cap.”
First-class Constable Dillin
swallowed hard. His eyes
looked around the room, search-
ing for a sympathetic eye. He
cleared his throat and returned
his glance to Mulvaney.
“Mr. Mulvaney,” he said
slowly, “mistakes do happen,
and I’m thinking, on second
thoughts, that this evening is
best forgotten.”
A S was mentioned earlier,
there are many who claim
credit for the removal of First-
class Constable David Dillin.
Yet, for all the claims, the truth
of the matter is that it was a
simple application for transfer
filed by the constable himself.
For what remained .for him
when Mick Kenny, with twenty-
three schooners inside his skin,
discovered that the mention of
Mrs. Mulvaney’s pantry door
was sufficient to waive the possi-
bility of arrest for being drunk
and disorderly?
Or when Harrigan learnt that
the subject of home-brew
brought innocently into the con-
versation, revealed Dillin’s atti-
tude to after-hours trading in a
different light?
Or when Bob True discovered
that well-chosen remarks on
beer-making saved the expensive
business of employing cockatoos
for his two-up school?
The simple fact remains,
First-class Constable Dillin
applied for the transfer himself.


600,000
Americans can't be wrong!!
Yes! This figure represents the number of
machines sold in the U.S.A. since the intro-
duction of SHOPSMITH in 1949.
Join the ranks of satisfied
SHOPSMITH owners and
possess the most versatile wood-
working machine of modern
times. Now made in Australia
by C. C. Engineering Industries
Ltd.
(1) As a Circular Saw
m
,;X. •
(2) As a Disc Sander
SHOPSMITH
WOOD-WORKING
MACHINE
In a matter of moments, Shop-
smith can be adapted for use as
a . . . Disc Sander, Drill Press,
Circular Saw, Horizontal Drill,
or Wood Lathe. Shopsmith’s
rugged, practical design allows
for accurate duplication of any
precision job. Powered by a
dependable \ h.p. electric
motor (Motors to suit local
conditions—A.C. or D.C. also
available).
SHOPSMITH may be pur-
chased on the most attractive
easy terms.
(3) As a Lathe
Multi-
purpose
Multi-
profit
(4) As a Drill Press (5) As a Horizontal Drill
Manufactured by
C. C. ENGINEERING INDUSTRIES LTD.
under license from Magna Engineering Corp., U.S.A.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. ( Sydney Metropolitan Area )
C. C. DISTRIBUTORS PTY. LTD.
213 Bridge Road, Glebe, N.S.W.
Demonstration & Showroom: 125 a York St., Sydney. 8X7044
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd., Sydney. Nock & Kirby Ltd., Sydney.
N.S.W. (Country Distributors')
A. J. Ellerker, 63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victoria; J. R. Hall & 00., 600 Bourke St., Melbourne. Hardware Co. of
Australia, 71-75 Queen’s Bridge St., South Melbourne.
West Australia: Watson Bros. Pty. Ltd., 863 Murray St., Perth.
South Australia; Harris Scarfe Ltd., Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Queensland: Ellerker Bros., 26l Wickham St., Valley, Brisbane.
Tasmania: 3. R. Hall & Co., 50 Esplanade, Devonport.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA— IN Divorce.
TO SYDNEY HEATH MILLHOUSE for-
merly of Hobart in Tasmania but whose
present address is unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that a Petition has been filed in
this Court endorsed with a Notice to
you to appear and answer the charges in
the Petition of ISOBEL ALICE MAUD
MILLHOUSE of 382 Liverpool Street
Hobart in Tasmania Married Woman pray-
ing for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion In default of your
so appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said charges proved
and pronounce judgment in respect thereto
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that
for the purposes aforesaid within fifty
days after the date of this publication an
appearance must be entered at the princi-
pal Registry of- the Supreme Court of
Tasmania, Macquarie Street, Hobart. —
W. A. MACKEY, Deputy Registrar.
BUTLER, McINTYRE & BUTLER, 22
Murray Street, Hobart, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
SPECIALISED TRAINING!
As Australian Literary Agents for all leading U.S.
publishing houses, including THE CURTIS PUBLISHING
CO. (SATURDAY EVENING POST, ETC.), McCALL
CORPORATION, HARPER MAGAZINE, COLLIERS,
STANDARD MAGAZINES, etc., etc,, we have arranged,
in co-operation with these publishing houses, both a full-
length Literary course for the Novice and a series of
decreasing Shorter courses for writers with some training
or experience.
Courses are the most advanced, and coupled with our
world-wide organisation, the most opportune ever offered
in Australia. They are especially designed to fill the heeds
of the U.S. market.
Despite dollar problems, fees are regulated to meet
the pockets of all with the necessary ability, no matter their
position.
AUSTRALIAN-AMERKAN
WRITERS AND ARTISTS AGENCIES
NEW YORK • LONDON • ADELAIDE • LISMORE.
All enquiries to
P.O. BOX 171, LISMORE, N.S.W.
Please favour us with Specific Particularsl
For post haste
%
without waste
use Overseas Airmail
these 3 ways
For business houses and individuals alike the secret
of using overseas Air Mail is to choose the right
classification for the particular purpose. Many people
do not know for example, that it is possible to send a
sealed, private letter to a friend on the other side of
the earth for as little as lOd.
Familiarise yourself with these 3 different classifica-
tions and save money as well as time.
1. For lengthy correspondence use ordinary
overseas Air Mail (sealed envelope). Rates
vary according to destination. Example:
To U.K. only 2/- per £-oz. —a Id. per 500 miles.
For brief correspondence both personal and
business, completely sealed and private, use
the special pre-stamped “Air Letter” forms.
You can buy these at any Post Office for lOd. each
(including postage) for Air Mail to almost any part of
the world.
For regular greetings to friends overseas use
air postcards. A postcard overseas by Air
Mail may be sent at special rates ranging
from as little as 6d. to some Pacific Islands and only
1/- to the U.K.
Packets, parcels, printed matter, etc., may also be sent
to most countries at special lower rates.
ASK
at the G.P.O.
i
or your Post Office '
df
This announcement is inserted
as a public service by
Qantas Empire Airways,
Australia’s International Airline,
Contractors to the P.M.G. for
Overseas Air Mail.
AMI
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of book Solomon’s
Ring. —s49o.
Sydney schoolgirl wants copies of
old magazines containing articles on
and photographs of China. —5489.
Words of the old bushman’s song
beginning: :
Wrap me up in my old stable jacket
And say a poor buffer lies low.
—5488.
To buy an original oil-painting of
a racehorse by Martin Stainforth, not
larger than about 12in. by lOin.
State name of horse and price wanted.
—5487.
Information Sought
Who was “Bill Bowyang” ?
Alfred Vindex Vennard (1886-
1947); he also used the names “Frank
Reid” and “Maurice Deane.” He
drifted into journalism during World
War I when he edited the “Kia-Ora
Coo-ee,” probably the best-known
A.I.F. regimental paper. For many
years he conducted an “On the
Track” page for the “Northern
Register” and the Townsville “Daily
Bulletin.” From the contributions
to this page he compiled several small
anthologies of bush verse. He was
also a regular contributor for many
years to The Bulletin.
• * * *
Difference between a consul and
proconsul in ancient Rome?
A consul was one of the two joint
chief magistrates of ancient Rome.
Their term of office in the republic
was one year, but under the empire
it was usually six months, though
sometimes less. A proconsul was a
consul whose period of office was
prolonged in order to allow him to
complete a victorious campaign. It
became a general rule for a consul
who had spent his year of consulship
in Rome to become a proconsul in
the provinces, perhaps waging a war.
A proconsul, however, had no power
in Rome itself.
* * * *
(1) Does the Earl Marshal of Eng-
land control the Coronation arrange-
ments? (2) Who is he? (3) What
are his other duties?
(1) Yes. (2) The present Earl
Marshal is the 16th Duke of Norfolk.
Since 1672, according to Everyman’s
Encyclopedia, the office has been
' hereditary to the Howards, Dukes of
’ Norfolk. (3) He is head of the
; Herald’s College, regulates all matters
I connected with armorial bearings,
standards, etc., controls arrangements
tor State functions such as Corona-
tions, Royal processions, etc., and
decides matters of precedence and
dress. The present Earl Marshal has
arranged the funerals of George V
: and George VI, has proclaimed three
■ Sovereigns and supervised two Coro-
: nations (including the coming one).
* * * *
.
I have to give an hour’s talk on
i Alfred Deakin. Can you recommend
some books to which I can refer for
; biographical and other material ?
Walter Murdoch’s Alfred Deakin:
A Sketch, Arthur Jose’s Builders and
Pioneers of Australia, Sir George
Reid’s My Reminiscences, Henry L.
Hall’s Victoria’s Part in the Australian
Federation Movement, Henry Gyle
Turner’s First Decade of the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth, J. A.
Alexander’s The Life of George
Chaffey, Alfred Deakin’s The Federal
Story. See also The Australian
Encyclopaedia and Percival Searle’s
Dictionary of Australian Biography.
* * * *
What plans were Sir Charles Kings-
ford Smith engaged on prior to losing
his life, and what was the cause of
the disaster?
In July, 1935, Kingsford Smith sold
the “Southern Cross” to the Com-
monwealth Government and went to
London to organise a company to
carry mails, Airlines of Australia,
Ltd. He had sent the plane he had
bought for the Macpherson-Robert-
son England-to-Australia air-race to
America, intending to sell it, but he
now decided to have it brought to
England and fly it to Australia. He
had much difficulty and worry in con-
nection with the amount of petrol he
would be permitted to carry, and he
was not in good health. It is believed
that his physical condition was the
most probable cause of the disaster
that followed. Kingsford Smith, with
his companion, J. T. Pethybridge, left
England on November 6, 1935, and
on the evening of November 7 left
Allahabad on the way to Singapore.
On that night or next day Smith and
his companion perished. Searches
were made by planes on sea and land
for several days, but no vestige of
the lost plane was ever found.
Brief Answers
L.S.: For that literary argument
between “Rolf Boldrewood” and
Louis Becke see The Bulletin of
September 8, 1894, and November 17,
1894. Files can be seen at The
Bulletin office, Sydney M.A.G.:
Practically any fruit-tree only sft.
away from a drain would cause
trouble through the roots interfering
with the pipes. It is suggested that
merely cutting down the tree each
year would not overcome the trouble.
P.L.: Stories by Ethel Anderson
which have appeared in The Bulletin
since 1949 are: “Twenty-four Ele-
phants (Apr. 27, 1949), “A Seraglio
Has Its Uses” (June 29, 1949), “The
Eurasian” (Oct. 26, 1949), “The
Cameleer’s Wife” (Dec. 21, 1949),
“Love Affair” (Jan. 18, 1950), “A
Study in Gluttony” (Mar. 1, 1950),
“Three Wakeful Nights” (May 3,
1950), “A Study in Insobriety” (May
31, 1950), “Venus versus Pallas’
(Aug. 2, 1950), “A Study in Anger”
(Sept. 20, 1950), “The Love Nest”
(July 25, 1951), “A Bit of a Mix-
Up” (Apr. 9, 1952), “Home Life
Allahabad” (Oct. 15, 1952), “His
Excellency Arrives” (Dec. 10, 1952),
“Devil’s Eye View” (Jan. 28, 1953.
... .F.O’F.: See article “Towards a
Bibliography of the Penny ‘Bloods'
Published by Edward Lloyd” by S.
L. Larnach in the Book Collectors’
Society of Australia’s “Biblionews”
for January and February, 1953, ob-
tainable from Walter Stone, 64
Young-street, Cremorne (N.S.W.)
S.F.: Imminent Summer by Nancy
Keesing was published by the Lyre
Bird Writers, Sydney, in 1951
H. 8.: Dalray won the 1952 Mel-
bourne Cup. Dalray, a black horse
by Balloch-Broiveine, was owned by
C. Neville, trained by C. C. Mc-
Carthy and ridden by W. Williamson.
He carried 9st. 81b., and did the
distance in 3min. 23|sec W.E.8.;
Communicate with Mr. H. B.
Carter, Officer-in-charge, Wool Biology
Laboratory, Randle-street, Sydney
W.M.: Write Department of Agricul-
ture, Farrer-place, Sydney.... H.J.:
H. E. Boote died on July 14, 1949, R.
J. Cassidy on September 26, 1948,
Neville Cayley on March 17, 1950,
R. H. Croll on October 18, 1947,
J. W. Gordon (“Jim Grahame”) on
August 12, 1949, Marie E. J. Pitt on
May 20, 1948, Roderic Quinn on
August 14, 1949.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
L.F.: Well, you could read it to
your landlady R. 8.: He lies, but
not alone, in the w.p.b K.R.R.:
It breaks no new ground K. 8.:
We were almost tempted by the cray-
fish. .. .J.McV.: Not giving Old
Billy a home M.A.N.: It just jogs
along in an unexciting fashion
E.C.F.: Poem written during a flood
only reaches a low level R.G.K.:
It is, as you say, doggerel NJ.D.:
Coronation poems are a drug on the
market 0.W.: It sheds but a dim
light JJ.A.: Cannot endorse the
tall claim that you make D.G.8.:
Like the man in the poem, it missed
the bus F.L.: Couldn’t you be
persuaded to sign a pledge never to
write another poem? 8.L.5.:
Admire your patriotism, but not your
poetry You should have
enclosed a headache-powder with
those efforts.. . .R.W.M.: Not put-
ting “The Old Gulf Port” on the
map G.D.: It has all the appear-
ance of having been written during
a hangover W.McE.: A wet spell
always brings a flood of such poems,
mostly poor H.J.H.: It no sooner
hit the desk than it was in the basket.
N.S.: It might suit your local
weekly J.R.J.: It is getting all the
repose it wants in the basket....
E.D.8.A.: There seems to have been
a lot of jilting going on judging by
the swarm of sighing-for-lost-love
poems that have descended upon us
this week J.D.: Henry Lawson
said it better A.M.T.: It doesn’t
make sense R.G.: The sort of
poem that makes us want to duck
for cover.


the
name
Cdllurn
(D
c
whisky
the
ft
&
v*.
•■ v.■ svwf^<v
Distilled and blended in Scotland
Ml 5
A Personal Sketch
MALENKOV AND
PEACE
By "EK DUM"
Georgi MAXIMILIA-
NOVICH MALENKOV
is the least-known royalty
in the world. His name is
a paradox almost too good to be
true, * The Maximilianovich
signifies that he was the son of
a man named Maximilian, which
implies the acme of greatness.
Mali in Russian means small.
So Comrade Stalin’s successor
seems to be called Tiny, son of
the Big Fellow.
He is not tiny. He is sft. 7in.
high and weighs round 18 stone.
What his real name is and what
his real background and heredity
are nobody knows for certain.
He is supposed to be
51 years old. There is an
unnoticed picture of a youth
in one of the photographs
taken of Stalin during his exile
in Siberia that might be him, but
it is doubtful. Latterly it has
been given out that he was born
in Orenburg in the Urals.
He is, at any rate, a post-
Lenin revolutionary product, the
first of the New Men of Russia
to hold dominating office.
He joined the. Communist
party in 1920, and became head
of the Political Department of
the Army of Turkestan in 1921.
Next year he shifted to Moscow
and was passed through the
Higher Technical School, gradu-
ating in 1925. He was secretary
of the Communist-party unit in
the school. Some time between
then and 1930 he became Stalin’s
personal secretary.
At 28 he was head of the
secretariat of the Orgbureau of
the Moscow section of the
party ; in 1934 head of a depart-
ment of the secretariat of the
Orgbureau of the Central Com-
mittee.
Up to this stage he was strictly
a civil servant; a secretary act-
ing under the orders and doing
the detail work of Stalin and
Kaganovich, Stalin’s relative by
marriage. He lived in the
Kremlin, only faintly known to
some outside. But he was in the
proper position to gain a per-
sonal knowledge of everybody
who was anybody. He watched
many a powerful figure disap-
pear, some through mysterious
illnesses, some into the recesses
of the Lubianka prison.
He saw nine or 10 among the
original Stalinist Central Com-
mittee of the Communist party
executed as traitors, one commit
suicide, one (Kirov), Stalin’s
righthand man, assassinated, and
37 just disappear. By 1939 there
were only 20 or 21 left of the
original 71.
At the congress of the Com-
munist party in March that year
there were a number of new
faces. One was that of the now
late-lamented Zhdanov, who had
first become prominent in the
purge of 1937, and who was now
used to win public backing by
inveighing against the injustices
of that operation of mass-murder
which had proved unsettling
among the roughly 200,000,000
All-Russians who were subor-
dinate to their 2,000,000 lords
of the Communist party. He
was to die suddenly in 1948,
aged 52, at a time when he was
a bar directly across the path of
Malenkov’s progress.
A second new face was that
of Malenkov. He joined the
Central Committe of the party,
spoke as one of the and
was chosen on Stalin’s initiative
to become a member of the
secretariat —the other members
were Stalin himself, Zhdanov,
Andreyev, a vice-Premier, presi-
dent of the powerful Central
Control Commission, which is
the disciplinary body of the
party and a member of the Polit-
bureau since 1926. He was also
elevated to the secretariat of the
All-Union Orgbureau. He was
now one of the small group
which formed the inner brain or
operative cabinet of the
U.S.S.R. He was 37.
Two years later, in February,
1941, he was chosen to deliver a
dressing-down to officialdom at
a special party conference called
to ginger-up the Government at
the moment when Molotov had
failed in his negotiations with
the Germans and Japanese to
divide the world. He so little
minced words that it was clear
he spoke for Stalin. He snorted
loudly about the “windbags”
who deal in such phrases as
“There’s a slight hold-up, but we
are clearing out the snags,” and
the ignoramuses who “know
nothing, don’t want to know
anything, but are convinced that
there is nothing they don’t know
and refuse to listen to advice.”
He had something caustic to
say about officials who “study
pedigrees to pick helpers by their
proletarian ancestry rather than
by the criterion of their ability.”
And he meditated loudly, amid
what the official report called
“animated movements” in the
hall, on the need to clear a lot
of these sorts of human debris
out of the services.
Some of the “debris” was
cleared out in short order,
including Molotov’s wife (who
was Minister for Fisheries) and
a brother of Kaganovich, a lead-
ing Politbureau member.
Malenkov then became a
candidate-member of the Polit-
bureau, the ruling junta (the
word “candidate” has the
German meaning of “pro-
bationary”).
He, however, continued to live
his life behind the Kremlin walls,
becoming fatter and fatter, with
more double chins and a more
sinister appearance, which was
apparent only to onlookers when
he appeared with other Polit-
bureau members on the platform
above Lenin’s tomb. Otherwise
nobody saw him in public.
Stalin took him into the War
Cabinet when the Germans
attacked himself, Molotov,
Zhdanov and Beria, who is
something of Malenkov’s own
breed, and three years older, a
short, thickset Georgian from
Sukhum, an architect and con-
struction expert, University
educated, controller of the
Department of the Interior and
of the Red-anting of countries
marked out to become satellites.
Malenkov was handed the job
of aircraft- and tank-production,
and went about it with cold-
blooded efficiency until he was
transferred to take charge of the
reconstruction department. By
1949 he claimed to have restored
production to pre-war levels in
all the districts occupied by the
Germans.
And by this time —Zhdanov
having died mysteriously the
year before —he was obviously
being groomed as Stalin’s suc-
cessor, if successor Stalin was
to have. His signature began
to appear on decrees with that
of Stalin, who remained
Secretary-General of the party
while Malenkov figured as
“Secretary.” He had become the
dictator of the Orgbureau, which
decides all major appointments,
and also the issuer of decrees of
the Politbureau.
The new orientation of Soviet
foreign policy seemed to be very
largely under his direction when
it began to flow into hatred of
what he called “the ripe-rotten
West” in 1946.
Examination of his actions and
statements during that and suc-
ceeding years throws perhaps a
little light on present policy. In
1946 he dilated on Soviet
strength:
Our friends respect ns because we
are strong.... The weak are not re-
spected. If we are respected it
means that we shall not be hindered
in our task of construction... .We
are a mighty force already today,
and this should be remembered by
those who think that our people
....won victory in order to allow
others to enjoy the fruits, I<et them
remember this and not try to
frighten us, for it has been proved
that our Soviet people are not of
those who can be intimidated.
He was the agent sent abroad
to found the Cominform and the
satellite system at the Warsaw
conference. It was his first trip
out of the U.S.S.R. Nobody
can say that the Cominform,
which he seems to have con-
trolled since its formation, has
done anything but intensify the
fight for the world Communist
revolution envisaged by
Stalinism. Indeed, it has acted
as the general-staff of the revo-
lution, the channel through
which all foreign Communist
parties have received their
instructions from the Kremlin.
Again, in 1949, he was sent to
Prague to represent the Soviet
Government as its spokesman,
to give the World Federation of
Trade Unions a solid start as a
world-Communist machine, and
to lay the publicity-foundation
for the outbreak of the Korean
war. He it was who at that
meeting launched the savage
campaign against the United
States which has been in progress
ever since, warning that America
would seek escape from its sup-
posed “desperate economic
plight” through military adven-
tures and aiiji to create a world
empire, while Russia was bent
upon a policy which would
“secure the support of all peace-
loving nations.”
The manifestation of Com-
munist “peace-loving” was the
attack on the South Koreans in
June following, and the step-
ping-up of the Indo-China and
Malayan operations.
The world campaign ever since
seems to have been under the
personal direction of Malenkov.
At the beginning of last year his
eminence was sealed by his being
publicly declared “co-adviser to
Stalin,” and presented with the
Order of Lenin. From then
onwards Stalin was treated in
Soviet propaganda as somebody
already dead and in process of
deification.
When the All-Union Congress
of the party was called together
in October, 1952, it was
Malenkov, not Stalin, who de-
livered the report of the Central
Committee. And it was his
photograph, dressed apparently
in one of Stalin’s tunics and
slimmed down to pictorial pro-
portions which must have made
his associates laugh, that
appeared as the frontispiece of
the official report —now the
determinative document on
Soviet Union policy.
There is nothing in that report
to support a theory that he is a
mild fellow who has come into
office with the intention of hold-
ing out the hand of friendship
to the capitalist countries.
Indeed, any hope that may have
flickered through the words of
his speech at the inauguration of
the Cominform in 1946, when he
said that “the co-existence of the
Communist and capitalist
systems was inevitable for a long
period of time,” dies in the face
of his long tirade at the 1952
conference against the West, and
particularly the United States;
The Hitlerite imperiaUsts, when
preparing for the second world war,
introduced Fascism in their °'v n
country; but at the present time the
American imperialists, in preparing
for a new war, are introducing the
brutal Fascist regime, not only in
the United States but also in other
countries, primarily where the forces
of peace and democracy are par-
ticularly strong, as, for example, in
France, Italy and Japan... .Today,
American imperialism is acting not
only as an aggressor, but also as a
world gendarme, striving to strangle
freedom wherever it can and to im-
plant Fascism.
There follow pages of pro-
vocative stuff of the same sort,
embodying the whole of the
“peace propaganda” with which
the world has been familiar for
the past year or two, and the
elucidation of Comrade Stalin’s
“discovery of the basic economic
law of modern capitalism,” of
which the major features,
Comrade Malenkov declared,
were “the securing of the
maximum capitalist profit
through the exploitation, ruin
and impoverishment of the
majority of the population of a
given country, through the
enslavement and systematic
robbery of the peoples of other
countries, especially backward
countries, and lastly, through
wars and militarisation of the
national economy, which are
used for obtaining the highest
profits.”
He linked that statement to
the world revolutionary theory
by saying that Stalin’s discovery
was “of epoch-making import-
ance,” since it “armed all the
peoples with a knowledge of
how to bring about the-revolu-
tionary reconstruction of society
and vividly illuminated with the
torch of revolutionary theory the
tasks and prospects of the
struggle of the masses of all
countries against imperialism and
for peace, democracy and
socialism.”
There has been no retraction
of these views in any official
document or speech since the
death of Stalin. Those who have
been brought nearer to the top
are all men who throughout long
careers have followed the path
of world revolution.
At the Stalin funeral service
Voroshilov (now President),
Molotov and Bulganin stood
directly on Malenkov’s right
hand, Krushev directly on his
left (a position which seems, on
precedent, to mark him down as
the current Crown Prince), then
Beria.
The new leader’s funeral
oration was a rehash of his and
Stalin’s previous utterances, end-
ing with: “Forward along the
road to the complete triumph of
the great cause of Lenin and
Stalin.” Beria and Molotov
followed the normal line—they
were the only other speakers.
The new teaching schedules of
the overseas Communist parties,
including the Australian, which
has produced since Stalin’s death
a brand-new study-course for
1953, show no change of heart
or intention. The Soviet text-
books used are the standard
ones prescribed by Lenin and
Stalin, with the addition of
Malenkov’s congress report. The
party still teaches that the
“revolutions in Eastern Europe”
are part of the “world prole-
tarian Socialist revolution,”
which it is the duty of every
Communist to forward. They
still dwell on the building of
proletarian internationalism and
the leadership of the Soviet
Union.
The present show of friend-
liness seems to be purely tactical,
dictated possibly by one or all of
three things: Russia aims (a) to
use the resources committed in
the Korean war elsewhere —
possibly in Indo-China, of which
special mention has been made
as a worthy cause in Stalin’s
funeral oration by Malenkov,
though he failed to mention
Korea; (b) to throw Western
economies off-balance by a
cessation of the Korean war,
thus suddenly closing-down the
large defence industries which
have been bom of it; (c) as the
French Left-wing paper “Franc
Tireur” suggests, “to put the
European nations to sleep so that
one day they may wake up
‘peacefully’ transformed into
Communist democracies.”
The only response so far from
those organising Nato defence
has been a statement by Marshal
Juin, on April 3, echoing
General Ridgway, that European
defence forces are still “well
below requirements,” and calling
for “indispensible” support
from Germany. Most Contin-
ental realists see in the new
moves only an attempt to dis-
rupt European defence plans.
And that is also the majority
view in U.N.O.
This is a wise approach. For,
as has been said, nobody knows
much about Malenkov —not
even whether he is' married or
not. But what is known is quite
out of accord with the present
display of friendliness.


LXd
Delightful
Modern
CEILINGS
For beauty and permanency Wunderlich
Metal Ceilings are renowned. Use them
in your new home or to cover existing
stained or faulty ceilings. Supplies are
available.
Call at our Baptist St, Red fern Show-
rooms. Phone MX 2411, or write Wunder-
lich Limited, for details of designs and
prices.
c/er/ic/i
ETAL CEILINGS
Beautirut • permanent • mobern
CRIPPLING RUE UMATIC PAINS
quickly eased with
TRADE HARK
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
O During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Clout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
• DOLCIN is non-toxic.
• DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
• DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years.
. 1,100,000,000 tablets have been administered throughout
the world.
. DOLCIN is easy to take In tablet form.
• DOLCIN is obtainable from your chemist.
Atl •*
rhe° m t , cA
sC,A
nE UR iTI
t ß >‘°
.*«"g£
H6^
«K»’
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLGlltf
Informative literature on Doldn
will be sent on request to Dolcin
(Australia ) My. Ltd., Box 1552,
Sydney.
D 4.2
SPORTING NOTIONS
The big racing scene shifts to
Brisbane this coming weekend,
when the Queensland Turf Club
will open its rich autumn carni-
val with the £lO,OOO Stradbroke
Handicap. The St. Leger Stakes,
which has attracted prominent
southern three-year-olds, and
the weight-for-age P. J. O’Shea
Stakes are also on the day’s
programme. On Monday the
£12,000 Brisbane Cup (2m.) is
to be decided, as well as the
£2500 Sires’ Produce Stakes.
Main event on the concluding
day, Saturday, May 9, is the
£2500 Moreton Handicap, 11
furlongs.
Visitors to the picturesque
Ascot track will see one of the
prettiest courses in Australia.
They will also be hoping for
better luck than that experienced
by punters on the opening day
of the corresponding fixture
last autumn, when rank outsider
Wedborough, at 25 to 1, landed
the Stradbroke from Humming
Top and Mr. Standby. Cider, at
33’s, and Cool Customer, at
12’s, were other longshots to
win that day. Putoko, at 16 to
1, had a fairly easy task in the
rich Brisbane Cup from Jan (25
to 1) and Catchfree (7 to 1), so
that the two-miler was hn all-
Sydney affair.
In the absence of Tarien, the
Stradbroke winner may be
French Echo, with Red Jester
and Suncup the dangers.
With the exception of the
Victory Cup (1946), which was
run at a mile and a half and
won by Sydney galloper Good
Idea from two other Sydney
horses, Chaytor and Swan
River, the Brisbane Cup has
always been decided at two
miles. Next Monday’s field in-
cludes several from Sydney, but
one of the Brisbane gallopers,
Basha Felika, is strongly fancied
and has been favorite or equal-
favorite for the past couple of
weeks. He is in winning form
and is bound to run well. Visit-
ing stayers have made it diffi-
cult in the Cup for Brisbane-
trained horses in recent years,
and may do so again on Mon-
day. Since Good Idea’s suc-
cess, Sanctus and Prince o’
Fairies, both from Melbourne,
and Silver Buzz and Putoko,
both from Sydney, have won
the two-miler.
Basha Felika may win the
Cup, from Jan and Sea
Sovereign.
Trainer Bill Williamson has
won two-year-old events this
season with Talei and Buthus —
and, incidentally, Anzac Day
has been a lucky day for him.
Buthus won last Saturday the
Second Division of the Somme
Two-year-old at Randwick.
Three years ago Williamson
won with Glotone at Newcastle
on Anzac Day, and at last year’s
Anzac Day meeting, also at New-
castle, he was successful with
Buzz Andrew. Buthus, by
Scorpion (imp.), was not offered
for sale as a yearling, but
was sold privately to his
present owners for £5OO. His
dam, Lady President, is by Fel-
crag (imp.) from Gold Spark
by Scintillation (imp.). Lady
President wasn’t raced, but Gold
Spark will be remembered as a
smart middle-distance mare;
she won, among other races, the
AJ.C. Anniversary Handicap.
Just Gold (imp.), dam of Gold
Spark, also won several races on
Sydney tracks. This was the
first win by Buthus, but he could
continue the good work, as he’s
a smart colt with a game finish-
ing run,
Nickola, winner of races in
New Zealand, took some time to
repeat his early successes in
Sydney. However, he broke the
ice in stylishly winning the
Western Desert Graduation
Stakes at Randwick. The black
colt is a son of Foxbridge (imp.)
and Lady Nikotine, an imported
mare by The Satrap from
Nitrokia by Mahmoud. Nickola
is closely related to Tiffin
(£16,516 in stakes) and to Beau
Le Havre (£15,930), and he could
go on to much better things than
a restricted race or two. His
dam was a winner at her first
start in England. It might be
worth that The Satrap
won at his first four starts as a
two-year-old in England and was
a brother to Tetratema. The
Randwick winner certainly has
an interesting background.
Horses that appeared to
experience little luck in running
at Randwick on Saturday, or
came home well from rearward
positions and might be worth
jotting down for immediate
engagements, include Belmont
Park (third to Buthus), Royal
Mission (fourth to Nickola),
Forest Land (second to Nickola),
Lord Stefan (fifth to Mardi
Tout), and Whirl (third to
Idlewild).
In some country districts of
N.S.W. racing clubs are increas-
ing stakemoney to such an
extent that Sydney owners of
fairly good gallopers should not
miss the opportunity of sharing
in the distribution. For instance,
the £lOOO Wagga Cup, plus a
lOOgns. trophy, Scone’s £6OO Cup
and £5OO Sires’ Produce Stakes
(to be decided next week), and
Tam worth J.C.’s £lOOO Cup and
£lOO trophy (May 13 and 14),
While Randwick punters
found Anzac Day quite a happy
afternoon so far as results were
concerned —not one outsider
came to light—visitors to New-
castle, the only other fixture held
that day, had a series of reverses.
Penhill (14’s) and Narine (25’s)
were two winners almost totally
neglected in the betting-ring,
while 8-to-l Waterfront was
second-last in the betting, Joy
Day, a recent winner at the
course, was again successful.
Though trained in Sydney, he
has run his best races at New-
castle. Penhill, winner of the
Maiden (First Division) is a
three-year-old filly by Brueghel
(imp.) from Miss Pentheus by
Pentheus from Pearl Thain by.
“For MY sake, Kenneth, give it up before your face
gets damaged."
Blue Trout (imp.). Winners in
the family lines include
Hallowed, Miss Andrew and
Lord Pentheus, while Miss
Pentheus, dam of the filly, was
a smart winner on the former
Sydney “pony” courses and also
won at Randwick. •
Neville Sell Wood, with 45
wins, is easily in front of jockey
rivals in Sydney, with George
Moore on 38 and Bill Cook on
34. All three will be riding at
the Brisbane meeting this
weekend. T. J. Smith is right
out on his own so far as Sydney
trainers are concerned, with 52
wins till Saturday last. For his
patrons he has won upwards of
£60,000, so, apart from bets and
presents for winning, his per-
centage has amounted to quite a
healthy sum for the nine months
to date.
Duke of Fife hasn’t done
much racing, but he’s a likely
three-year-old gelding by Le
Grand Due (imp.) from Verity
by Constant Son (imp.) from
Valwyne by Valais (imp.). He
has Carbine blood on both sides
of his pedigree, and should stay
for a week. His half-brother,
Prince Verity, a winner, ran
third in the AJ.C. Derby. Duke
of Fife recently opened his
account at Hawkesbury, but
he has a lot of catching-up to do
to return his yearling cost,
2100gns.
Sweet Lady, who won the
1917 AJ.C. Gimcrack Stakes,
the V.R.C. Maribyrnong Plate
in then record time, and the
Q.T.C. Sires Produce Stakes —
a most rare treble —figures in
the pedigree of Escape, four-
year-old winner of the Second
Maiden at the latest Kembla
fixture. Escapee is by Mac-
Arthur from Brazen Maggie by
Magpie (imp.) from Sweet Lady
by Linacre (imp.).
* * *.
The N.S.W. Rugby Union
team due to play Queensland
tonight (Wednesday) in Bris-
bane is; Fullback, R. Colbert
(Drummoyne); three-quarters,
E. Stapleton (St. George), J.
Solomon (University), H.
Barker (Randwick), R. Garner
(University)five-eighth, M.
Tate (Eastern Suburbs); half-
back, C. Burke (Newcastle);
forwards, R. Outterside (Rand-
wick), B. Johnson (Gordon),
D. Brockhoff (University), A.
Cameron (St. George), N.
Shehadie (Randwick), R. David-
son (Gordon), J. Elliott
(Northern Suburbs), M. Elliott
(University) ; reserves, J. Phipps
(Gordon), J. Carroll (Eastern
Suburbs).
The team was chosen after
the Anzac Day games at North
Sydney, and as a cadre round
which an Australian team will
almost certainly be built is a
fair enough first choice. Most
obvious weakness is lack of a
first-class goal-kick. But, quite
apart from what Queensland
may produce in that line, former
international fullback Brian
Piper is still in the running. At
least he has been picked for the
City side to play a combined
Country-Newcastle team in an
early game next Saturday.
Other notable players in the
same team will be Col Windon
and Keith Cross, both inter-
nationals and both on the injured
list. Windon has been a mighty
breakaway ever since War 11,
in which he served with the
2 1 3 rd Battalion.
In the N.S.W. team the for-
wards are a solid lot, Cyril
Burke, a proved international,
played his way into the team on
Anzac Day, and if other weak-
nesses are to be found they are
most noticeable in the three-
quarter line. Barker, the Rand-
wick centre, deserves his chance.
Solomon, in this writer’s opinion,
has been overboomed. Classy
in attack, he is weak in defence.
Jack Blomley, as a centre, would
be a better choice, although
Murray Tate is the sounder
proposition as five-eighth. Of
the wingers, Stapleton is in the
tradition of great internationals.
Ralph Garner is not in that
class ; so far, though, no better
winger has been offering.
An analysis of the N.S.W.
team shows that University has
four representatives, Randwick
three, Gordon three (counting
one reserve), St. George two,
Easts two (counting one re-
serve), Northern Suburbs, Drum-
moyne and Newcastle one each.
Parramatta, Eastwood, Manly
and Country none. A propor-
tional representation not entirely
justified by the records.
A feature of the games has
been the strength, in terms of
areas, of Union in the country.
All going well, and with allow-
ance made for the usual errors
in such matters, a team of Aus-
tralians may go to South Africa
with a fair chance of toppling
the famous Springboks.
* * *
Ex-amateur champion Norm
Jones, who represented Aus-
tralia in the 1952 Helsinki
Olympic Games, scored his
second professional win when
he conquered Alfie Clay (9.Hi)
at Leichhardt. Jones won
on a foul in round seven, Clay
being disqualified for butting.
Looking like the best southpaw
lightweight Sydney has seen since
Vic. Patrick, Jones took the
offensive right away. True, he
butted Clay twice in round one,
but that mightn’t have been
deliberate, and from then on he
hit Clay with every punch his kit
'contained. North Sydney light-
weight Kevin Kelly (9.9) dis-
played promise of developing
into a classy performer when he
outpointed Mick Cunningham
(9.10) in one of the six-rounders.


Rose Lindsa y's Memairs
CELEBRITIES IN THE SKYSCRAPERS
E left for America in
\ A / 1931, after a period of
yy feverish attacks on
Norman’s work. Red-
heap, published in London, was
banned in Australia ; published
in New York under the title of
Every Mother’s Son, it was pro-
claimed the book of the year,
and the Cosmopolitan Book
Corporation wanted other
novels.
The Norman Lindsay edition
published by “Art in Australia”
was seized by the police. This
brought the journalists out again
en masse for a grand attack.
“Smith’s Weekly” placarded
Sydney with “Will Norman
Lindsay be arrested?” We saw
these posters on every street-
corner as we walked down
George-street; we looked at
each and did not comment.
It was a relief to be on the
Aorangi and going out through
the Heads.
The last ten years had been
strenuous for both of us. Most
of the etchings had been done
between 1918 and 1926, and the
biggest output of watercolors
from 1920. Norman also did a
lot of work for “Vision,” a
magazine produced by Jack
Lindsay. Wood-blocks were
also done for Jack’s poems
Fauns and Ladies and Kenneth
Slessor’s Thief of the Moon,
and when Jack went to London
and started the Fanfolico Press
Norman devoted almost every
evening to illustrating books for
it, doing a pencil-sketch for a
watercolor or, for relaxation,
writing his novels. His output
during these years was colossal.
He seemed to be unable to rest,
and looked on his breakdowns
as holidays forced on to him.
One need look no further than
to his etching “Self Portrait” to
know the state qf his mind. It
was a Satanic retort to the
crucifying-minded mob, and
triumphant in that it depicted the
most perfect woman that he has
ever created.
* • • 9
We spent one night in Van-
couver before setting out on the
long trip over the Rockies. I
felt that I never wanted to see
another pine-tree after that
journey, and was glad to step
off the train at Grand Central
station and go straight into the
Commodore Hotel in nice time
for a bath before dinner.
Norman phoned Saul Flaum,
the manager for the Cosmo-
politan Book Corporation which
had published Every Mother’s
Son, and an appointment was
made to meet the next day.
After dinner we sat in the
lobby watching the people. A
woman came up to Norman and
said “You are Norman Lindsay.
This week I got a letter from
Tom Nisbet telling me that you
were coming to New York and
to look out for you”—the
remarkable thing was that she
should have come in to meet
someone else, and recognised
Norman from a photo that she
had seen while in’ Australia.
When we went up to our room
there were two bottles, and a
bunch of flowers,’ sitting up on
the pillow—from Saul Flaum.
The bottles were amber color,
with labels like old parchment.
Medieval lettering proclaimed it
“Old Scotch,” with a red seal
that would have glorified a State
document. Hearing so much
about bootleg making one a
lunatic or corpse within a matter
of seconds, I was highly
suspicious. A smell of it was
none too assuring, a small sip
almost alarming. It tasted like a
combination of turps, metho,
and paint-oil. The smell took
me back many years to when I
climbed up a rope-ladder to the
deck of the Koningsberg, a dis-
mantled old Norwegian ship
rotting in Kerosene Bay.
These two bottles no doubt
cost Saul about a tenner. Doled
out to guests, with an occasional
sip for self, they lasted for
months.
....
Walter Chrysler, son of the
motor-car man, was greatly
interested in producing special
books, and had just brought out
a most handsome edition .of
Dante’s Inferno with the Blake
illustrations. I think the edition
was limited to one hundred and
cost many thousands of dollars
to produce. He wanted to do a
book of Norman’s pen-
drawings ; all the plates were to
be hand-engraved.
Norman pointed out that it
would cost a lot, with no money
in it for either of them. “We
don’t care; we only want to do
a nice book,” he said. It was
all right for him, the son of a
millionaire, but no good to
Norman.
’Walter was a very good-
looking lad and had a suite of
rooms high up in the Chrysler
building, with a couple of
secretaries at his bidding and a
secret press-button under the
carpet below his desk, which he
put his foot on when he wanted
to get rid of a caller.
He asked us to afternoon-tea
at his father’s apartment on
Park Avenue to meet a few
people, including Blanche Yerka.
Norman was very interested in
her because she had been in the
production of “The Lysistrata,”
but I was more interested in
looking around at the antique
furniture and tapestries, one
piece almost covering the wall.
Below it was a tapestry-covered
chair of a past decade. Walter sat
suddenly on it and it collapsed.
He was very distressed and
placed the leg cunningly in posi-
tion so his father wouldn’t
know. I rather fancy that the
butler saw it, but would be
discreet,
• • • '•
Fanny Hurst lived in the
expensive part of New York in
a studio apartment. Dark wood
beams shot up to its domed sky-
light, which threw a mellow light
on a long dark bench-table with
heavy carved legs, a red velvet
runner with gold-fringed ends
being spread down the centre.
Carved high-back chairs and
Persian prayer-mats on the
brown polished floor and early
Italian pictures in gem-studded
gold frames on the dark panelled
walls gave the room a cathedral
look.
Fanny was seated in an expen-
sively simple dull black silk
frock, her black hair parted and
drawn back Madonna-style, so
smooth and shining that it
enhanced the magnolia glow of
her skin, which was free of
rouge. A small red gauze hand-
kerchief to match lips and nails
was tucked into her breast-
pocket.
Ray Long, who was editor of
the “Cosmopolitan” magazine,
told me her income was over
twenty-thousand a year.
She told us of her trip to
Russia —every one in the literary
world seemed to be going or
coming from there at that time.
“I had a parrot in that for a
few days,” she said, indicating a
large gilt cage that rested on a
side-table.
It was a South American
parrot that she, had bought at a
bird-shop near the docks for its
gorgeous color and because it
talked so well. As soon as she
got it home it shrieked the most
awful oaths all day, so she
decided to take it back, and it
Further extracts from the unpublished
memoirs of Mrs. Norman Lindsay
shrilled its oaths all down Fifth
Avenue from the taxi window.
“But I have the dearest pets
now,” she said, pressing a
button. “Bring the darlings in,”
she ordered the maid, a slim
golden-toned negress with flash-
ing eyes and pearly teeth, in
black satin and a white lace
.
apron the size of a handkerchief,
She came back with an armful
of three yapping Pekinese pups
that wanted to bite the lot of us,
drawing forth Fanny’s praise and
our false admiration.
“They must not be over-
excited,” she said and ordered
the maid to take them back,
Their small, venomous faces
yapped furiously at us as she
struggled out with them. “The
darlings-,” Fanny breathed.
• ■ • •
Frank Waldo, of the Scripps
Howard newspaper chain, asked
us to dinner at the Cosmopolitan
Club at nine o’clock. We were
ROSE LINDSAY
(From the portrait by Harley Griffiths)
shown to his private room, where
a few guests were seated on gilt
chairs in the cream-and-gold
room waiting for Waldo.
I sat next to a fat man with a
thrown-back mop of white
unruly hair. Each guest eyed the
others furtively till a thin, fair
woman said “This is quite
unusual for Mr. Waldo to be
late, but, as we are all his guests,
let’s get together.” So everyone
smiled and began to talk.
In no time Norman was telling
them of the beauty of their sky-
scrapers—a safe subject with any
New Yorker. “To come from a
city without any—to this! I
never could have conceived their
beauty. They melt into the
sky,” he said.
“Do you like them?” the old
gent, asked me.
“I love them.”
“Damn fool,” he snorted, and
ignored me for the rest of the
evening. I found later that he
was the famous revolutionary
architect Frank Lloyd Wright.
Opposite us was a Norwegian
architect who had a design for
the perfect skyscraper, which
would generate its own fresh air
and be so self-contained that no
one need go outside to buy so
much as a hairpin. I asked to
what height the skyscraper could
go—higher than the Empire
State?
“Funeral parlor,” he said,
flicking the Empire State out of
existence. “The sky’s the limit.”
He became eloquent, while
Wright grunted and snorted
until Waldo arrived with more
guests. After introductions and
cocktails we were taken into the
next room to a round table set
for twelve.
I sat between Waldo and a
perfectly-tailored gentleman in a
collar, tie, shirt and vest all of
the same fine white pique, which
intrigued me so much that I
inquired. It was purchased in
London.
Clams were served, and
Waldo, noticing that I ignored
them, said “Don’t you like
clams?”
“No,” I replied. “To me a
clam is nothing short of canni-
balism —too like newly-born
babies, so pink and soft.”
He ordered oysters for me. I
know now that to scorn a clam is
a national matter to an
American.
The Norwegian was drawing
designs of his skyscraper on the
back of his menu for his fair
partner, and Frank Wright was
attacking Norman for expressing
his admiration of them. I heard
him boom across the table
“What right have you to give an
opinion?”
Norman gave his right, as an
artist’s, and soon had the whole
table backing him, except
Wright, who snorted vigorously.
A lively red-headed lady
opposite was flashing her green
eyes around as she passed the
pink clams through her brilliant
red lips on a long silver fork —
making much of her white hands
and blood-red nails and an
enormous sapphire ring set in
diamonds. She wore a tight
green satin frock to match the
ring.
Waldo whispered to me “She
is a Rumanian princess, married
to that man next to you.” Turn-
ing to him, I said “You are the
husband of that lovely woman?”
“I have no husband,” she
hissed across the table. He
smiled gently and talked of tak-
ing a business trip to Australia.
“I’m not going,” she said. All
the guests made a great fuss of
her and we went through a
gorgeous dinner that lasted
nearly two hours ; Waldo, plump
and smiling all the time, adroitly
bringing all his guests into the
conversation, except Frank
Wright, who seemed to be “set
on snorting at everything,” as
the Norwegian said.
After coffee Waldo took us to
a newsreel, and, as we were get-
ting into taxis, Frank Wright
drifted off on his own.
Ray Long, - editor of the
“Cosmopolitan,” lived in an
enormous apartment on River
Side Drive with his young wife,
Lucy Virginia, and a small son.
He had five motor-cars and
thirty-five pairs of silk pyjamas
from Paris.
He asked us to dinner without
naming the time. Knowing but
little about the eating-hours of
Americans, as we had been in
New York only three days,
Norman decided that 7.30 would
be about the correct time to
arrive—which must have been a
very unpleasant surprise for
them. Even the butler, a tight-
lipped, hard - faced German,
seemed a little perturbed as he
parked us in the lounge-room
and went away to tell on us.
We had a look around at the
pictures, a large raw-looking oil-
painting of Lucy Virginia gazing
haggardly at the opposite wall.
We were told later in the evening
that it was by a man to be
watched. I’d say he was!
A couple of Zorn’s etchings,
one of D. Y. Cameron’s of some
hills that looked like deflated
tents, a couple of modern French
paintings —one by the French
woman who paints faces of snow
with currants for eyes.
The room was lavishly
furnished with genuine reproduc-
tion antiques and Persian mats
were thrown about recklessly.
I was about to peer at the
brand of a piece of glittering
glass when Ray came in, fresh
from the shower, wearing a black
silk dressing-gown covered with
gold dragons shooting red
tongues —which gave us an
inkling that something was
wrong about our time of arriv-
ing—two hours too early—but
he was ever so glad to see us.
“Gives me some time to talk
about that novel of yours,” he
said to Norman as he poured
out three whiskies. “It’s the best
Scotch. I’ll guarantee it. I get
all mine from a bootlegger who’s
beyond reproach. If you don’t
know what you’re drinking in
this country you are likely to be
in a box the next day. Don’t
take any risks,” he advised
Norman. He didn’t. When Ray
was not looking he poured his
into my glass and said “This is
whisky, Ray,” with a sly gurgle
to suggest that he had swallowed
the lot,
Ray was a short, thick-set,
dark man with a merry manner
that almost camouflaged his
piercing pirate-like eyes when
books or authors were men-
tioned. \
After drinks he took me to
Lucy Virginia’s room, and
Norman to his to talk about the
novel as he dressed.
Lucy Virginia’s room, with
twin beds, was cream and prim-
rose with matching satin bed-
covers and mushroom carpet,
and her bathroom was all butter-
cup yellow with a hundred or
two twinkling silver press-
buttons. She was in a petulant
mood. “I really did not want to
come home from the Continent
so soon. There’s nothing in New
York till next month,” she said.
Ray’s five-year contract with
the “Cosmopolitan” was at an
end. With the depression full-
steam ahead, the future did not
look too bright if he could not
grab a few authors for a pub-
lishing business that he was
about to establish, and these he
wanted to get before they went
to Farrar and Rinehart, who
C Continued on page 34)


/N
Jj0
i"
£.3
-
I
I*?
d?
:vi.i
38W5®
SPACEW
ENTHRALLING
ADVENTURES
IN THE
SPACE
WORLD
OF THE
FUTURE
Thrill to the exciting revelations of
a peep into the space world of
tomorrow. “Tom Corbett, Space
Cadet” is a brilliant presentation
based entirely on scientific fact. You’ll hear it on Tuesday, Wednesday and
Thursday evening at 7.15 each week, Presented with the good wishes of the
makers of Kiwi Polish.
2GB - SAW ■ 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
and a nation-wide network of other commercial
broadcasting stations.
M acqmm R madcasU
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WORDS OF PEACE
An Arab story tells of a man
who went out to kill sparrows.
As he scanned the sky the wind
made his eyes water. A bird
observed him and said “Look,
he’s crying.” To which another
bird replied “Never mind his
eyes—watch his hands.”
Except for the ever-ready
hopings of the wishful, that com-
pletely sums-up responsible over-
seas reactions to the current
Russian “peace offensive,” as
indicated by the following repre-
sentative comments.
* * * ♦
“Manchester Guardian ” :
“Though the theme of ‘peaceful
‘co-existence’ has been the burden
of the Soviet Press and radio the
alleged threat of aggression from
the West has not been forgotten.
Unabated rudeness to the United
States has gone together with a
slight softening towards Great
Britain. In fact, the organ is
playing the same old set of tunes,
but some of the stops have- been
pulled out farther than usual.”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
"Los Angeles Times”:
“Malenkov says he’s for peace.
Stalin said he was for peace. If
memories are long, Americans
will remember that Hitler and
Tojo also were for peace.”
Same: “Malenkov obviously
needs time to get his feet in the
stirrups before rattling his
sword. For what comfort it
affords, it indicates that ‘peace’
is a word the Soviet slave-masses
want to hear. The sincerity of
any peace-policy made in the
Kremlin is another matter. The
apparent threat of foreign
enemies is even more essential
to a new regime than it was to
Stalin, and all the logic of
despotism argues against any
genuine desire of Malenkov’s to
drop this useful pretence.”
• • • •
Same: If Malenkov or any
Communist leaders really want
peace, they can prove it readily
enough by supporting the Indian
proposal to stop the shooting in
Korea. This compromise was
not entirely satisfactory to the
United States, but we and the
overwhelming majority of other
United Nations assented to it as
evidence of our will for peace.
When the Soviet Union does
likewise, it will be soon enough
to speculate that Georgi is any
more peaceable than Joe.”
* * ♦ «
London "Spectator ” ; To build
on these scraps of evidence the
theory that M. Malenkov may
be moving towards a general
detente would be foolish in the
extreme. There is plenty of room
for Russia to modify—and gain
some sympathy in the process—
the habitual boorishness of her
international conduct without
swerving by a hair’s breadth
from her ultimate purposes.
These (whatever they may be)
are more likely to be attained
from behind a facade of reason-
ableness than by the continuous
and rather idiotic display of bad
manners to which we are
accustomed. Further develop-
ments along these lines, if there
are any, will be scrutinised by
sensible people in a spirit of
analysis rather than in a roseate
haze of hope.”
* * » •
Leading American foreign-
affairs commentator, Walter
Lippmann: “There is no reason
whatever for thinking that there
is any change in the strategic
objective of foreign policy as
Stalin expounded it —namely, the
consolidation of the Communist
orbit and the disintegration of
the non-Communist coalition.
But there are indications at least
that this policy is now being
administered with more energy,
more imagination, more dis-
cipline and more consistency.”
* * * ♦
London "News Chronicle”:
“As likely a theory as any (or
so at present it seems) is that the
triumvirate which has succeeded
Stalin in the Kremlin is anxious
to forestall a Cold War offensive
from the West at this time of
dislocation and dubeity in
Russia. In particular, perhaps,
the triumvirate finds alarming
any possibility that the West
may try just now to detach one
or more of its satellites. To avert
any such developments—and
with whatever ultimate objective
—it may be ready to negotiate
for a relaxation of the current
tensions.”
• • • •
Same: “The Kremlin has long
told its people that we are
aggressive warmongers. If we
were, the right reply would
certainly be to exploit ruthlessly
the Kremlin’s time of uncer-
tainty. But we are not war-
—New York “Herald Tribune”
BIG FROG IN THE COMMUNIST PUDDLE
mongers, and we have no aggres-
sive design. We cannot even
doubt what our policy must be.
“It must be to encourage every
Soviet proposal to negotiate. It
must be to explore, with all
necessary safeguards, every solu-
tion offered. And it must be to
make it clear from the begin-
ning that, subject only to the
test of good faith, there is an
overwhelming wish on the
Western side for an armistice
that will bring the world out of
the trenches of the Cold War.”
* * * *
"Yorkshire Post”: “Too much
has happened these last years to
make an understanding anything
but a distant hope. Moreover
these gentler notes may be
nothing more than an attempt
to exploit the abhorrence of war
which is strong in all the Western
peoples.
“But this is no reason for not
welcoming warmly the possi-
bility of a better atmosphere.
‘Pravda’ writes that the Soviet
Union has no intention of inter-
vening in the internal affairs of
the capitalist countries.
“This may be an honest
aspiration for the future, but it
is not a true description of the
past. For years relations be-
tween the Communist world and
the free world have been be-
devilled by the stream of invec-
tive which unhappily today flows
in both directions. If the
Russians were to end the war
in the ether this would not by
itself end all tensions; but it
would be an essential step to-
wards better things. Such a
measure would meet with a
response on this side.”
* * * ♦
Russian-affairs expert Harry
Schwartz, in "New York
Times”: “There have been so
many propaganda campaigns in
the post-war period that the
mechanics of how a ‘peace offen-
sive’ is organised and carried
through can be charted. Each
such effort is, of course, a vast
enterprise involving millions of
persons throughout the world
and thousands of propaganda
media of all sorts.
“Inasmuch as each ‘peace
offensive’ has been a major inter-
national manoeuvre in support
of Soviet foreign policy, it is
clear that the basic decision to
institute a particular effort, along
with the primary decisions
regarding timing and emphasis,
are made at the very highest
level of the Soviet regime. The
actual planning of details, the
evidence suggests, is entrusted to
the experts of the Propaganda
and Agitation Division of the
Central Committee of the Soviet
Communist party. However,
some latitude is allowed to
foreign Communist parties and
fellow-traveller organisations so
that they may work out tactics
most suitable to the situation in
each nation.
“Once the basic plans have
been set, there are many channels
available through which the
necessary instructions can be
broadcast. The Soviet empire
has its own communications
system, as has the world Com-
munist movement. The basic
‘line’ is often laid down in the
Cominform newspaper which is
published in all major languages
and distributed to all continents.
Radio Moscow broadcasts the
‘line’ to all the world in many
tongues, as do the satellite radios
and the many Soviet publications
published in English, French
and other nomßussian languages
for wide foreign circulation. A
particularly important channel
through which instructions often
flow and through which co-
ordination is obtained is the
World Peace Council, a Com-
munist-front organisation having
branches and members in many
countries.”
* » /♦ •
"New York Times ”; “Presi-
dent Eisenhower [reacting to
Malenkov] made it plain that he
spoke from strength, not weak-
ness, and that further develop-
ments will now depend on the
Soviet answer to two funda-
mental questions.
“The first is: Are the Soviets
really interested in a settlement?
“President Eisenhower wel-
comed Mr. Malenkov’s pro-
nouncement, but made it clear
that the demonstration of a
genuine Soviet interest will deter-
mine our own [U.S.] attitude.
“The second question, which
excludes any idea of appease-
ment, is: Are the Soviets willing
to talk peace without infringe-
ment on our rights?
“President Eisenhower did not
specify on this occasion what
these rights are, but he has
stated them many, many times
before, and they include the right
of all nations to live in peace,
freedom and security in a world
and an age in which infringe-
ment of the rights of one nation
threatens the rights of all,”
• • • •
Same: “The real test is
whether the Soviets are reafly to
change their policy of aggression,
conquest and subjugation and
whether they are ready to
demonstrate such a change not
only by words but by deeds. Mr.
'Malenkov pledged himself to
settle disputes by peaceful
means. He can begin doing so
by ending the wars in Korea,
Indo-Chma and Malaya. He
also pledged himself to respect
the rights of all nations, large
and small. He can do so by con-
cluding the Austrian treaty and
permitting the unification of
Germany on the basis of free
elections as a step toward final
peace. He likewise pledged him-
self to strict observance of
treaties, and he can make a start
here by carrying out the prin-
ciples of the Atlantic Charter,
and even the Yalta agreement,
providing for the liberation and
self-government of all Eastern
Europe, now groaning under the
heels of his armies.
“As for his pledge to observe
established international ‘norms,’
he can stop the barbarous
attacks of his planes and restore
the normal decencies of inter-
national intercourse in his treat-
ment of foreign diplomats and
correspondents. Finally, he can
fulfill the United Nations Charter
by co-operation instead of
sabotage, and in this fashion
create conditions in which
world-wide disarmament will
have a better chance of success.
“in short, the test of whether
the Soviets are in earnest is
whether they are willing to end
war, both hot and cold. Thus
far they have given no sign that
they are ready to do so. Until
they do, the free world has no
choice but to continue arming
itself against the dangers with
which it is confronted by the
Soviets.”
* p * *
New York "Herald Tribune’’
writer, David Lawrence: “Again
and again such peace gestures
have been proved transparently
empty, but the ‘peace at any
price’ sentiment in the Allied
countries nevertheless is so
strong that anything said by
Moscow about ‘peaceful intent
is grasped in desperation by the
West —as if it would help to
reduce taxes immediately because
an armament buildup would pre-
sumably be less necessary. These
tactics have worked before under
Stalin and are being continued
under Malenkov because the
West is easily duped by them.’
• • • •
Same: “Publicly, of course,
American and European officials


THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1874 of the State of New South Wales
on the First day of July 1887.)
Registered Office: I O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ISSUE AT PAR (£100) OF £3,000,000
5%
REGISTERED MORTGAGE DEBENTURES
Redeemable on 30th September, 1963, or, at the option of the Company, upon at least six
months’ prior notice of redemption having been given, on 30th September 1960, or on any
half-yearly interest date thereafter.
SUBSCRIPTION LISTS NOW OPEN
Full prospectus and application forms obtainable fromt
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED and
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES.
The Directors will proceed to daily allotment of the debentures as from the opening date
of the Issue. Interest will accrue as from allotment date on amounts from time to time
paid up on the debentures.
Applications will be received only on one of the application forms referred to and endorsed upon a printed copy of the
full Prospectus and should be lodged at the principal office in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth or Hobart,
of the Bank of New South Wales or The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited.
The Issue will close on the 27th May , 1953, subject to the right of the Directors of the Company to close the Issue at
an earlier time without prior notice.
DIRECTORS:
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX, 22 Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, Sydney, Chartered
Accountant (Aust.), Chairman.
JOHN GORDON CROWTHER, Club, Macquarie Street, Sydney, Solicitor.
JOHN WALLACE DUNLOP, 120 Bellevue Road, Bellevue Hill. Sydney, Merchant.
GREGORY BLAXLAND KATER, 106 Victoria Road, Bellevue Hill, Sydney, Electrical
Engineer.
WILLIAM JOHN VICTOR WINDEYER, Q.C., Harrington Avenue, Warrawee, Sydney,
Barrister-at-law.
TRUSTEES FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS:
- PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED), 33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
lAN POTTER & CO., 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Members of The Stock Exchange
of Melbourne, who will take firm £1,000,000 of the Issue.
STATUTORY INFORMATION t
(a) The minimum amount which in the opinion of
the Directors must be raised by the Issue of
debentures is £3,000,000. This amount is re-
quired to be provided in respect of each of the
following matters:—
(i) The purchase price of any property purchased
or to be purchased which is to be defrayed
in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the
Issue is Nil, but the estimated amount
which will be expended in respect of ex-
tensions and improvements to buildings and
additions to plant, machinery and equip-
ment required for the expansion of the
business carried on by the Company and
Hs subsidiaries is £2,940,000.
(if) Preliminary expenses payable by the Com-
pany, Nil, Expenses of the Issue (including
underwriting commission and brokerage
amounting to £45,000 payable to the under-
writers in consideration of their agreeing
to procure subscriptions for debentures of
the Issue) are estimated to amount to £60,000.
(in) Repayment of any moneys borrowed by the
Company in respect of any of the foregoing
matters. Nil. But pending the expenditure
of the sum of £2,940,000 as referred to in
sub-paragraph (i) hereof, part thereof will
from time to time be used in reducing
bank overdrafts.
( iv) Working capital, Nil.
(6) No amounts are to be provided in respect of the
matters aforesaid otherwise than out of the
proceeds of the Issue and the issue of debentures
made by the Company in 1952.
The requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act 1936 of the State of New South Wales have not
been fully complied with in this newspaper advertisement of the full Prospectus which is dated the 21st day
of April 1953 and a copy of which has been filed for registration with the Registrar-General of the State of
New South Wales.
vehemently deny that they are
being misled by Moscow. They
insist, to be sure, that deeds, not
words, must be manifested. But
the net effect, nevertheless, is to
stimulate the assumption that
Russia has no hostile intent and
that it is safe to let the Korean
war drag on without result, and
to do nothing that might offend
the Communist temperament.”
**. * 8
tt .
Same: The wait-and-see
attitude fits in with Malenkov s
strategy. He dangles hopes of
peace so as to retard rearma-
ment by the West and to
prevent, if possible, the Euro-
pean defence army from being
organised. His own people are
fearful of war, so he calms them
by ’saying ail questions with the
Uluted states can be settled by
peaceful means, the Malenkov
c r U, » y continuing the
Stalin bluff:.
Uniting Europe
The first draft of the Euro-
pean Constitution (for the
dreamed-of United Europe) was
passed by a vote of 50-0. Rati-
fication and all that is, of course,
still ahead.
It provides (explains “New
York Times”) for neither a
federation nor a confederation,
but for something in between —
a political community of a supra-
national character:
“This union is obviously
limited in scope and has a long
row to hoe before it passes the
suspicious scrutiny of the Parlia-
ments concerned , and becomes in
fact a working institution, the
missing political framework for
the Coal and Steel Community
and the European Army.
“The remarkable thing, how-
ever, is not that the Constitution
is a compromise but that it was
passed at all. Certainly it is no
more than a modest step of a
part of Europe toward the
integration of the whole. Yet
this part comprises the six
countries that are balking at the
fateful decisions that will bind
them together into a defence
community. The movement they
represent is always stalling, draw-
ing back, appalled as the caravel
crews of Columbus must have
been when they set forth on
their uncharted voyage.
“The important point is that
they go on, inch by inch. In the
midst of the divisive controversy
over the European Army, the
Governments that hesitate to
commit themselves to this revolu-
tionary enterprise are to be
found at Strasbourg, still seek-
ing and working for union.
Their persistence shows that liv-
ing forces are behind the move-
ment ; it cannot be stopped, be-
cause it- corresponds to the
inescapable realities of our
time.”
U.S. on the Suez
Hitherto British comment has
been able to make the point, with
justice, that America’s interest in
the Suez Canal was not really
vital, like Britain’s, and hence
America wasn’t very co-operative
there, or elsewhere in the Middle
East.
The recent co-ordination of
U.S.-British attitude towards
Moussadek indicated a change,
and the inclusion of an American
“observer” in the Cairo negotia-
tions carried this a step further.
Now American commentators
are stressing the need for a still-
more active U.S. interest. Thus,
a “New York Times” writer:
“The traffic through the Suez
is still close to 80,000,000 tons,
nearly three times that of the
Panama Canal, and the line of
communication between Europe
and southern Asia is more vital
than it was after the [American]
Civil War, when the great dream
of Ferdinand de Lesseps was
realised. Moreover, America’s
position has changed.
“We [U.S.A.] control nearly
a third of the shipping that goes
through the Suez, and our share
will be greater as time goes on.
As the leader in the defence of
the free world, it would be a
calamitous loss to us if the canal
were not kept open in war as in
peace. In the hands of an
enemy Power, the world would
be physically as well as morally
cut in two,
“In spite of the constant nag-
ging of the experts, we have
never quite understood the
importance of the Middle East
in global strategy.”
Various Voices
Sir Lincoln Evans, chairman
of the British Trade Unions
Council’s economic committee :
“It i 5.... .resistance to new
methods which has been respons-
ible in the long run for jobs
going out of existence, because
the markets they served have
been lost to others who, by new
methods, could produce more
cheaply or give better quality.”
'A dial Stevenson : “A genuine
partnership operates through
consultation and persuasion.
There is no room in it for the
big stick or the ultimatum, be
it a small or the medium size,
or even the large economy size.
Ours must be the role of the
good neighbor, the good part-
ner, the good friend —never the
big bully.”
The Archbishop of Canter-
bury : “I personally am in favor
of anomalies. All the valuable
things in life are anomalies.”
Dr. Eric James, High Master
of Manchester Grammar School,
disposing of “the common be-
lief that exceptionally able
children are more neurotic and
less athletic than ordinary
children”: “All the experience
of teachers and all psychological
research show the opposite.
They are better human beings ;
they are the nation’s most
precious asset, and the argu-
ment for their selection and for
giving them education of the
highest quality is based on the
fact that they are going to
occupy positions of leadership
in society. All the care, thought
and planning that the educa-
tional system can give them
should be given to them. If we
do not give leadership to the
intelligent we shall be lost as
a nation.”
Sir Thomas Beech am:
“[Modern composers] write
hash —or is it mash? No one
has written a good tune for 25
years, and no one, I predict,
will write one in the next 25
years,”
Lord Reith (former director-
general of the 8.8. C.): “There
is nothing whatever reactionary
—only, I should say, realistic —
in ‘wishing that evidence of*
some degree of intelligence and
responsibility and capacity could
be forthcoming as a kind of
means-test of fitness to govern.
Without something of this sort,
or some change in the attitude
of the governors, it looks as if
one of the results of the demo-
cratic method must be reduc-
tion to the speed of the slowest.”
President of the Board of
Trade, Peter Thorneycroft:
“The real problem which the
Socialist movement [in Great
Britain] has to face is the Com-
munist infiltration in their
ranks. Mr. Herbert Morrison
has recognised this, which is one
of the reasons why he has been
thrown off the National Execu-
tive. Mr. Gaitskell put the num-
ber of Communist or Com-
munist-inspired delegates at
their last party conference as
high as one-sixth.”
Sir Lincoln Evans: “It is use-
less to think that by voting in
the ballot-box for a higher
standard [of living] we can ob-
tain it unless the means to pro-
vide it are first created in our
fields, factories and work-
shops.”
Professor Petnicki ( Tito’s
English tutor): “The Russian
language has disappeared [in
Yugoslavia] without having to
be suppressed.”
Britain’s Gold Coast Gover-
nor, Sir Charles Arden-Clarke:
“We are showing the way under
conditions infinitely easier than
in East or Smith Africa that two
races can live together in unity
and work together effectively.
The African, given a chance, is
capable of managing his own
affairs with such advice as he
himself seeks from his European
friends.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Tripoli or Tobruk?
In an otherwise admirable first volume
of the history of the Australian Army in
World War Two, Gavin Long cannot
resist the temptation to ponder over what
might have happened in February, 1941,
had the Allies decided to push forward
from Benghazi to Tripoli. He men-
tions without comment Wavell’s state-
ment that “our resources were not equal
to the task. Our armored vehicles
were worn out by an advance of 500
miles ; we had not enough mechanised
transport to maintain even a small force
for an advance of another 500 miles to
Tripoli.”
In spite of that definite opinion from
the senior commander on the spot. Long
clearly leans to General O’Connor’s be-
lief that the advance could and should
have* been attempted ; that it would have
discouraged the Germans from sending
Rommel to North Africa; and that it
might have revived French interest in
the war. “A glittering prize was thrown
away,” he comments, (because) “Mr,
Churchill’s eyes were fixed on the pro-
ject to form a front in the Balkans.”
Yet there is plenty of evidence else-
where in the book that Wavell’s apprecia-
tion was sound. Two examples will
suffice. Firstly, for the advance from
Derna to Benghazi the Sixth Australian
Division could move only one brigade
at a time, and then only by “cannibalisa-
tion” of damaged vehicles, by use of
captured trucks and by borrowing some
of the artillery’s transport. Second, in
answer to a request for air support for
the Giarabub operation, O’Connor is re-
ported by Long to have replied: “Please
don’t ask me for any planes. I have
only two Wellington bombers with which
to prevent Rommel bringing his rein-
forcing units and supplies into Tripoli.”
Further, it is general knowledge that
the Royal Navy and the R.A.N. suffered
grievously in their efforts to maintain
Tobruk. How devastating would have
been the losses if Tripoli had had to be
supplied by sea!
My own testimony, for what it is
worth, supports what Wavell is quoted as
having said. I was a junior officer in an
infantry battalion of the Ninth Aus-
tralian Division. We arrived in Tobruk
while the Sixth was moving back to pre-
pare for Greece. A few weeks later —on
Easter Thursday, 1941 —we withstood
the first thrust from the leading elements
of Rommel’s Panzerkorps. We were
deployed in the thinnest of thin red lines
over 10 miles of front with the C.O. and
his headquarters manning a section-post
in the foremost defended localities.
We used captured Italian mortars tied
together with string. We had few Brens,
no Tommy-guns, and at that stage no
Vickers-guns. In lieu of anti-tank guns
we used eight Italian 75mm. fieldpieces
which we had assembled from bits and
pieces found in an artillery park and
which were manned by men who knew
nothing of gunnery—a specious point,
perhaps, in view of the fact that the guns
had no sights, anyway, and were laid
by peering through the barrel. Such
vehicles as we had were Italian trucks
which even the Sixth had rejected as com-
pletely unserviceable, but which our men
had patched up. If that was the best —
and at the time it was—that could be
done about equipping a forward
battalion to hold the most vulnerable
approach to Tobruk I entirely agree with
the statement that “our resources were
not equal to the task” of capturing
Tripoli.
True, the situation would have been
less acute had the better-equipped Sixth
Division remained in Libya ;■ but even a
year later a far stronger desert force
under Auchinleck was unable to hold
Benghazi against Rommel’s superiority
in tanks and anti-tank guns.
I do not doubt that O’Connor could
have got to Tripoli. What I do doubt
is that the Germans would have per-
mitted his poorly-equipped forces to have
stayed there unmolested. It is logical to
believe that Tripoli, not Tobruk, would
have been invested by Rommel, and the
L.-of-C. would have been such that
Tripoli—even if held by both the Sixth
and 'Ninth Divisions —could not have
withstood more than a month of siege.
After all, Tobruk barely survived, and
Benghazi was twice lost. The effect of
those additional 500 miles of supply
might well have been the annihilation of
two Australian divisions. The road to
Egypt would then have been wide open,
and Hitler would not have needed to
attack Crete,
It is pertinent to consider what might
have happened had the desert advance
ended —as Churchill originally planned
it and as Smuts always wanted it to end
—at Tobruk instead of Benghazi. Allied
morale would not have been weakened
and German morale enhanced by the
precipitate retreat from Benghazi. There
would have been time to convert the
naturally strong Bardia into a backstop
for Tobruk, and Wavell’s counter-
offensive in June, 1941, might well have
ended in victory.
Let it not be thought that the issue is
one of profitless speculation. Long’s
“That ought to be enough for today."
book earns a place in the literature of
strategy and tactics. It will be studied
by hundreds of our younger officers and
read, one hopes, by thousands of laymen.
It is therefore imperative that no false
lessons should pass unchallenged and
that the public should not be encouraged
to lose confidence in British general-
ship. Admittedly great risks can and
must be accepted in the pursuit of a
routed enemy ; but it is futile to capture
ground which cannot be held, no matter
how “glittering a prize” that ground
might seem to be. To have pushed on to
Tripoli with an ill-equipped force and
with untenable lines of communication
must surely have ended in a major
disaster. — Peter Mike (W.A.)..
Broadcasting and Television
Section 51 of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution provides that “Parliament shall,
subject to this Constitution, have power
to make laws for the peace, order, and
good government of the Commonwealth
with respect to postal, telegraphic, tele-
phonic, and other like services.”
There has been no amendment to that
section, which, of course, was drafted long
before broadcasting, as we know it today.
“ ’ Morning , sir.”
was ever thought of. The Broadcasting
Act 1942-51 derives any validity it may
have from that old section 51, which has
never been enlarged by referendum
because the view is apparently held that
the words “like services” cover the mul-
titudinous and very varied activities or
the A.B.C.
It is certainly a very long hop
from telegraphic and telephonic services
as understood over 50 years ago to a
Government instrumentality such as the
A.B.C. acting as entrepreneur and con-
ducting all the entertainments associated
with such a business. It is difficult to
imagine that the framers of the Constitu-
tion ever, in their most prophetic
moments, contemplated such activities,
let alone the imposition of a compulsory
fee payable by any citizens who might
have a receiving-set.
Where any doubt exists in law, I
thought that “intention” had some bear-
ing on the matter. It seems to me that
section 51 has been given the attribute
of a chorus girl’s garter, so far as elas-
ticity is concerned, and I have a feeling
that if a body of “listeners” cared to
query the validity of the whole business
in the courts the verdict would be that
the Broadcasting Act is ultra vires.
Perhaps with the advent of television
the point may be contested. Surely it
won’t be maintained that “like services”
extend to that. — Ceg (Vic.).
Dairyfarmers
The answer to “Delta’s” allegation (B.
15/4/’53) that dairyfarmers outside the
Sydney milk zone in N. S. Wales can’t
carry on because of costs, taxes and
dairy-produce prices is for “Delta” to try
to buy a dairyfarm either in or out of
the milk zone. The price he’ll be asked
will convince him that there must be
money in the game. —T.Mg (N.S.W.). .
If, as “Delta” claims (B. 15/4/’53)
dairy farmers cannot make a reasonable
return on capital as well as a fair wage,
what happens to the share-farmer? The
old 50-50 basis has largely been replaced
by a 40-60 agreement, with the owner
getting the smaller share, but share-
farming still seems to satisfy both parties.
The owners of dairy farms are not
philanthropists. Some are retired
farmers, but a good many are auctioneers
and town businessmen with money avail-
able for investment. They will not be
satisfied merely to break square with
rates and taxes and their rate of income-
tax is higher than the average farmer’s.
So far, there has been no rush to sell
these investment properties.
The share-farmer still has his com-
plaints—have you ever met a cow-cocky
who hasn’t? However, the fact remains
that there are still men looking for farms
to work on shares. —J. R. W. (N.S.W.).
Australia’s Road System
Last year three-quarters of the total
expenditure on transport and travel in
Britain was spent on road transport,
railways accounting for only a little over
one-fifth. More than £l4OO million
(12.5 per cent, of the national income)
was spent on operating motor-vehicles.
Those figures indicate the relative
present-day importance of roads and
railways, and support the arguments put
forward by “Dick Turpin” (B. 8/4/’53)
for vast new roadway developments in
Australia.
Australian roads, by overseas
standards, are still in the horse-and-
buggy age. They were not designed for,
nor will they safely carry, the rapidly
growing volume of mixed traffic using
them. Apart from some hopeful plans
on paper, there is little sign that Aus-
tralian Governments are aware of this
lag or seized with the fact that it is the
inadequacy of the roads themselves that
makes them death-traps.
The British Road Federation-
counterpart of the newly-formed Aus-
tralian Federation —has issued figures
showing that accidents on the roads last
year cost the country £146 million. It
has published an admission from the
Ministry of Transport that road acci-
dents could be substantially reduced if
the highway system were improved, and
has estimated that £550 million spent
on modernising England’s roads would
result in an annual saving of £95 mil-
lions in time, fuel and tyres conserved,
reduction in repairs and fewer acci-
dents.
In America road-engineers are work-
ing on the principle that the roadway
systems must be made as safe as the rail-
ways, “which they have largely sup-
planted,” Modern six- and eight-lane
highways have been freed of traffic
hazards, and as a result average one acci-
dent to the million vehicle-miles travelled
on them compared with 19 accidents to
the million on any typical two-lane,
danger-packed road. '
U.S. private enterprise is taking the
greatest interest in roadway develop-
ments, and, by bond issues, has been
responsible for the financing of such
highways as the Pennyslvania Turnpike
and the New York-Buffalo Thru-way.
The public does not lack interest, either.
A General Motors Corporation competi-
tion on the subject “How to plan for
safe and adequate highways” attracted
1500 entries a day.
U.S. big business also is concentrating
attention on the economic waste occa-
sioned by bad roads. An instance is the
statement by the Regional Plan Associa-
-1 tion of New York that 75 million dollars-
i worth of petrol was being wasted each
year by trucks held up in New York
1 traffic-jams or searching for parking
space. ’ . . .
Australian interest m roads is, as yet,
■ difficult to assess, but as more and more
, become motor-users, and as leadership
is provided by such organisations as me
Australian Road Federation, the demand
for better roads can be expected to
assume considerable proportions.— Kag
(Vic.).
Marketing Parasites
“R.H.N.” (B. 15/4/’53) should re-
member that-“farmers, particulariy dairy-
farmers, are allowed to hold and wa
more land than they are wdhngto
to its best and fullest advantage because
ours is still a comparatively free country
and because Communism has not yet go
us under its heel. frir
It is true, however, that our farms
the most part are poorly and wasteful }
maintained, the reason in most cas
being that the return on any gi yen cr P’
to the small farmer particularly, is dis
proportionate to the middlemans
off
this shabby exploitation of primary
production right across
has been and always will be th .
while marketing agents are penffl#*.
even encouraged, by apathetic P 0 t
to wax unreasonably fat and ealt J c
their victims’ expense. F.u.m.
(N.S.W.).


iimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiniiiiii
y 2 out of every 3 Australians agree
I# Menzies has done a good job!
—PUBLIC OPINION.
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiii
2 out of every 3 Australians
mistrust Evatt!
iiiiniiiiMiiiiiiiiinMiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiniiiiiifiMiitinniiiniiniiiiiiiiiiiiiniiMiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiMiiiMiniiiiiiinnmmiiiimimMnimniimmmiiiimiminimmiiiiiiimiiimnimimiu
•. -Af.
MENZIES
has made Australia
one of the most soundly
prosperous countries
in the world to-day!
m-
i
EVATT
would destroy the
security your sacrifice
has built!
VOTE FOR THE
MINZIES SENATE TEAM
ON 9TH MAY
A [£oj HEAiY.
Jam«s
A fTTI JONES,
Cfaucfe
A fT5i CONNORS.
WM
TO VOTE
SENATE
8 m AMOUR,
Sidney Kenn
8 fgl ARNOLD,
I LJ . • Jarvwt
8 m ©RANT.
I —' DonsM
C [T| McMULLIN.
Alister Maxwell
C m ANDERSON,
Kenneth McColl
C [3] KIRKBY,
Mrs. Thelma F.
0 ' Robert-Pwift^sT
; : : Robert- ;
Artbtaf
P Tjl
l— Edward Hector
REMEMBER YOU MUST NUMBER EVERY SQUARE
Authorised by
Pacific Origins
H. A. Lindsay (B. 1/4/’53)
presents a few facts and many
irrelevancies to prove a theory
that has not been assailed, and
ignores a mass of evidence which
supports one that he will not
admit.
There’s no need to explain
how existing colonies showing
traces of Asiatic descent got into
the Pacific or crossed the dold-
rums. I’ve already fdone that
(B. 4/3/’53). I’ve also sailed an
outrigger, examined the remains
of one of the last of the
“lakatoi,” and watched Pacific
Islanders pack coconuts and
gourds of water into the floors
of their vessels as Heyerdahl did
in the raft Kon-tiki. The dold-
rums are not impassable, but
they would have been very ex-
pensive of life, even to such
good paddlers as Polynesians.
Sure, the Columbian Indian
canoes were not very big, and if
one did sail most of the way
round the world (a full passage
was claimed, but is disputed) she
was the decked Tillicum. The
Peruvian had no boats, only
rafts? Admitted on present
evidence. That is the very rea-
son why the crossing of the 4300-
mile gap between Peru and the
Marquesas was held to be quite
impossible. Heyerdahl and his
mates have done the “impos-
sible,” and re-established an
“impossible” theory.
Now the picture of the migra-
tion from the east becomes clear ;
clearer than that from the west.
Over scores of years, even
centuries, pre-conquest Peru-
vians went fishing on their balsa
rafts. They would have taken
with them only a small stock of
prepared food and water in
gourds, their fishing gear and
a few domestic utensils and the
very transportable coconut,
which is both food and drink.
Some of them were carried off-
shore into the Peruvian and,
later, into the South Equatorial
currents —and on, to be cast
ashore on the Marquesas or
Tuamotu Islands.
Many perished by drowning
or of privations, but, probably
with the aid of rainwater from
squalls and fish caught at sea,
many survived to start a new
life and penetrate further into
the Pacific. If they took any
pottery or local plants or ani-
mals with them the surf and the
endless sands would destroy or
bury the one and the others die
out soon in an uncongenial
environment.
These Peruvians would be
simple fisher-farmer folk with
little of the advanced skill of
their artisan compatriots in
working stone or metals, in
weaving or pottery-making.
What skill they had would soon
deteriorate or be lost for lack
of raw materials, and their main
preoccupation would be with the
business of living. They would,
however, take their language,
religion, traditions, social and
political systems and domestic
customs and decor, and those
are the very things of which
most evidence now remains
{vide Heyerdahl). If and when
they met the invaders from the
west the result would be much
as we now find it. An organised
flight, such as that of Kon-tiki,
would have a better chance of
survival than the chance drift-
ing above described, but is not
necessary to the eastern theory.
If Polynesian navigation
or shipbuilding bears any
resemblances to Arabic the re-
semblances are deemed to be
accidental and coincidental.
They were an ingenious and re-
sourceful folk, and probably pro-
duced their own canoes and sea-
manship “off their own bats.”
Their double canoes may as well
have been inspired by the balsa
rafts as by Indian outriggers.
They bear as much resemblance
to Arab dhows as they do to
Chinese junks. Their navigation
was of the simple sun, moon,
star and memory variety, com-
mon to all early seafarers. They
had no real instruments. Their
calabash “sextant” was a joke
played by bored natives on
boring tourists.
Some investigators assume
that every demi-semi-resemb-
lance observed proves an asso-
ciation. They will not admit that
two distinct races may both have
had the same idea. They can be
very wrong at times,
There is a lot of “probability”
about this contribution? Of
course there is. Archaeology,
anthropology and ethnology are
based on probabilities. A
standard dictionary definition of
archaeology is “the science
that deduces a knowledge of
early times from their remains.”
“Deduces” be it noted. That
leaves great scope for specula-
tion and even guesswork. Finally,
scientists generally and anthro-
pologists along with the rest, are
more likely to assail than hail
colleagues who refute accepted
theories. X. N. O. (Q.).
' r
Trees and Rain
Trees grow profusely because
there is ample rain to provide
for their needs; rain does not
follow the trees (B. 15/4/ ’53).
Cutting down forests and scrubs
has not lessened the rainfall of
any area of which we can hiake
a study. •
Take the heavily timbered
lands between Grafton and the
Tweed border as an example,
At the end of the 19th century
there would have been few
clearings—the first settler at
Bangalow said he had. a job to
clear enough to locate his tent
in that heart of the Big Scrub,
Today it is nearly all gone. Air
travellers see only isolated bits
of scrub and, round Bangalow,
the cows have little shade on a
hot day.
Most of the North Coast post-
offices have rain-records going
hack to well beyond 1900, and
they tell an interesting tale,
Murwillumbah’s average for the
25 years following 1896 was 60
j nc hes ; in the next 25 years it
was 54 inches. The average for
the past quarter-century is a bit
higher still.
Lismore’s records go back a
long way. The average from ’
1896 for the next 25 years was
45 inches, and for the next 25
years it was 55 inches. For the
past 25 years to date it has been
over 50.
Grafton’s average annual fall
from 1896 to 1920 was 34 inches,
and 36 inches for the next 25
years.
Commonwealth scientists are
chary about committing them-
selves without figures going into
centuries, but they say that
“whether forests have a direct in-
fluence on rainfall is a debatable
question, some authorities alleg-
ing that precipitation is un-
doubtedly influenced by forests,
while others take the opposite
view.”
Denudation of forests affects
weather in some respects, and
plays havoc with the soil. Trees
have an equalising effect in
checking the movement of air
and retarding evaporation,
Their removal permits frosts
and could lower temperatures,
There are what scientists call
“pulsations of nature,” over the
centuries. In North Africa,
where there are ruins of old
irrigation systems in the desert,
there must have been more rain
than there is now, or even the
early inhabitants would not have
spent their labor there. On the
other hand, there are, in rain
jungles of Central America,
relics of Aztec and other natives’
irrigation systems, indicating
that is used to be a fairly dry
belt in the long ago. The giant
trees centuries old bear this out
by their rings. These pulsations
outweigh local environment in
their effect. Bangle-oh
(N.S.W.).
One Class
There is an unanswerable
case for the introduction of one-
class rail-travel in Victorian
suburban trains, yet despite con-
siderable public pressure Gov-
ernments take no action.
The present system prob-
ably produces more revenue,
but some economies would be
effected by doing away with two
sets of tickets and two kinds of
carriages.
Under present conditions of
overcrowding in most suburban
trains any advantage of two
classes is nullified because
travellers cluster wherever they
can.
Now would be an opportune
time for the change, as most
State rolling-stock is worn out
and must soon be replaced.—
Plain Australian (Vic.).


lohvoh story
« Trust TILLEY
something Better!”
-----
It may surprise you, who have known
The TILLEY Domestic Iron Model
DN 250 for a long time, to know that it
is only within the last few months that it
has been released to the Home Market.
Recently, at the Dairy Show at Olympia,
LONDON, the iron was exhibited on
our Stand for the first time. Standing a
little to one side, with his wife on his arm,
was a rosy-cheeked farmer. They gazed
in silent admiration at the iron for some
minutes. Then, turning to his wife, he
said with pride in his voice:
“ Trust TILLEY to make something
better! ”
It was obvious that Tilley Lamps and
Radiators had become true friends to
these simple farming folk. They accepted
without question the fact that any new
Tilley product must be the best of its kind.
We felt veiy proud at this spontaneous
demonstration of faith in our products.
It is people who live and work with
Tilley Lamps day by day who know the
value of sound workmanship and
absolute reliability. There is no doubt
about it the new Tilley Domestic Iron
IS better ! I
No wires—no flexes !
Burns 4 hours on £-pint of Kerosene—in
or out of doors !
Specially large bevelled sole plate for
smoother ironing.
Saves hours—no walking backwards and
forwards to the hot-plate. Beautifully
finished in cream and gleaming chromium
plating, with black heat-resisting handle.
While import restrictions remain you may have difficulty in obtaining TILLEY
Products. We look forward to the day, not too long distant, when you can once
again freely buy the best. They are obviously well worth waiting for I
Manufacturers’ Representatives:—
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.,
133-125 William Street. Melbourne, C.l.
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
7(Jibs.
B» -
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers'
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
gdf
. . BUX HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARKERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BAKREEE
acts like a band
■when placed fiat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
In all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABKEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 8p), 253 Elizabeth St., Sydney
ARTS
Circular Charts for ail typos
of Oecording Instruments
for SAf clui of MuMMff
or Equlpmsni
METER CHARTS • Spociafcy
3xamm
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Small Clips
“Spring vale”: Small-farmers’
wool, even though properly
classed, doesn’t bring the prices
of larger more evenly-balanced
lots. N. A. Bowman, a Vic.
Department of Agriculture wool
expert, holds that for small lots
reform in classing and grading is
badly needed, and the only way
to do it is by classing in the bulk.
Bulk - classing means the
massing and placing of true, even
lines of wool, from various small
owners, on the market in the
best condition, instead of selling
small bags, fadges and light
bales, as is the general practice.
Brokers can handle bulk-classed
wools more readily and
economically.
By bulk-classing the contents
of the original package are
graded and put into separate
bins, the grower getting the price
of each grade separately. When
a sufficient quantity of each grade
is amassed, the wool is then
offered in lines as big as possible.
Denny’s, Lascelles, Ltd., of
Geelong (Vic.), have conclusively
shown that bulk-classing is more
profitable to growers.
The Australian Wool Inquiry
Committee states that there is,
at least in the large centres,
increasing facilities available for
the centralised classing of small
or mixed clips, and urges that
they be more fully utilised. The
British Wool Federation
expresses similar views.
Line v. Inbreeding
“Outback”: Professor W. V.
Macfarlane, professor of physi-
ology, Queensland University,
stated on his return from U.S.A,
that 30 years’ experiments at
Beltsville (U.S.A.) Dairy Re-
search Station indicated that
line-breeding and outbreeding
with well-chosen sires were
about equally reliable and did
not require heavy culling.
In-breeding gave both very
good and very bad products,
from which an excellent herd
could be built up if culling was
vigorous. Thirty years ago a
dairy herd was established at
Beltsville ; it was housed in stalls
and had been fed since that time
on second-class hay as a standard
diet, adjusted in amount to the
growth of lactation. The first
generation was divided into three
groups, each of which was sub-
jected to a different breeding
policy.
Another long-term experiment
involved testing the heat-toler-
ance of Brahman-Sindhi-Jersey
crosses. The Sindhi cattle were
red-coated with black hides, and
they were able to breed in Wash-
ington at one year. From the
cross a quick-maturing animal
was obtained with better heat
tolerance than Jerseys. The
crosses gave 6 per cent, of butter-
fat in 60001 b. to 10,0001 b. of milk
per annum. It had been interest-
ing to find, he said, that there
was no close correlation between
ability to withstand heat and
ability to produce milk. Heat-
tolerance was measured by not-
ing the amount of panting the
animal had to do in the heat,
the weight loss and rise of body
temperature.
One surprising and rather
heterodox finding concerned the
surface area of Sindhi and
Jersey cows. For animals of
equal weight, it was found that
there was no greater surface
area in the Sindhi cattle than
in Jerseys, despite the hump and
dewlap on the Indian animals.
The Jersey and the Sindhi-
Jersey cross did equally well in
growth and production at the
Washington latitude (37deg.)
on good feed. In Texas, how-
ever, with more rigorous condi-
tions of heat and less nutritious
feed, the halfbred cattle were
much better than Jerseys in
both heat-tolerance and milk
output.
Pig Husbandry
“Billjim”: Select a prolific
strain from which to breed. The
chosen strain should be capable
of weaning at least eight piglets
“Pity that cove who lends us these couldn't live a little nearer.”
per litter. Mate sows on the
second and third day of heat or
run them with the boar where
'matings are spread. To obtain
the maximum litter, mating
should take place as late as
possible in the heat period.
For the first month after
weaning feed sows four to six
gallons of skimmed milk or its
equivalent and grass. It is
essential that sows be in good
condition at time of mating. If,
after the month, the sow has
regained condition lost while
suckling, fped her only pasture
until seven days before farrow-
ing. Rye-grass or clover is suit-
able pasture. ' From seven days
before farrowing sows should be
fed four to six gallons of
skimmed milk or its equivalent.
The build-up of the sow’s con-
dition should be gradual, and
the milk may be varied by sub-
stituting a pound or two of meat-
meal. At this stage regularity is
vital. A constipated pregnant
sow may have difficulty in
farrowing. Bran or molasses in
the ration or medicinal paraffin
as a lubricant will overcome this.
Ration should be reduced two
days before farrowing and two
days after. At this stage the sow
should have access to plenty of
clean drinking water.
Confine the sow at farrowing-
time as this will enable her to
be observed and assistance given
if necessary. Warmth is
important because of the drop
of body temperature of the
piglets for a short time after
birth. A suspended hurricane-
lamp will give extra warmth.
In post-natal feeding adopt the
principle of four units for the
sow and two to three for each
pig of the litter. Observation
here, too, will tell whether this
figure is too large or too small
for the particular animals. After
farrowing the sow’s ration can
be increased slowly until she is
taking all she can eat.
Graze the sow on pasture each
day and take the litter out once
a week. Meal and milk in the
troughs while the sow is out will
encourage the piglets to start
creep-feeding early. If wet
weather prevents this practice
cut a sod and place it in the
house so that piglets can get
necessary minerals.
Creep-feeding should be
started at three weeks with milk
and meal (dry) fed separately.
At three weeks castrate the litter.
Done correctly this will improve
the carcasses when they are sub-
sequently marketed. Allow
thorough drainage of the wound
by extending the cut sufficiently
high towards the belly.
Pigs should be weaned on to
milk and meal at about eight
weeks with the aim to keep the
litter growing rapidly. Meal
should be fed for three weeks
after weaning or until sufficient
milk is available, and feeding
during this period should be
three times a day.
After the pigs have been
weaned for three weeks the
ration may be given twice a
day. The temperature of the
piggery should be kept to 70deg.
F, for pigs of 1001 b. liveweight.
Pigs over this weight do best at
a temperature of 65deg.
It is wise to farrow the sow
six weeks before 20 per cent, of
the dairy herd is due to calve so
that dairy by-products can be
used to the best advantage. This
may mean additional supple-
mentary foods until the milk
supply is available and meatmeal
is a good standby.
Inbreeding of Bees
“Farmer Bill”: Continual
breeding of bees from the same
stock in an area uninhabited by
other bee tribes will result in
inbreeding and reduce the honey
output, says B. Higginbotham,
chief apiarist of Lawes Agri-
cultural College (Q.),
Indications of the trouble are
scattered cells in the brood
combs or scattered cells contain-
ing brood younger than the
brood around it.
First signs are lower hatch-
ability. Failure of even 5 per
cent, of every 100 eggs laid each
day by the queen can become
serious. Annual average pro-
duction of honey per colony is
three tins, or 1801 b.; a loss of
5 per cent, represents 91b. per
colony. When the same loss is
sustained over 100 colonies, out-
put is reduced by 9001 b. The
present-day price for honey being
lOd. per lb,, total financial loss
will amount to £37 Bs. This is
increased by the fact that the
came number of nurse-bees and
the same comb spaces are
required for the lower popula-
tion.
In times of plenty lowered
hatchability jjoes not worry the
apiarist. But in winter, or during
a dearth of honey-flow, when the
colony weakens quickly and
recovers slowly, the loss may rise
from two tins to the complete
honey-flow.
The moral is not to blame
queen-breeders for producing
poor-quality queens, when in
reality the trouble is inbreeding.
Ban the “Blacks”
“Stinger”: Before a man has
been keeping bees very long he
learns that the “bush-blacks” in
his hives produce a finb mob of
ebony-bottomed runners but
precious little honey. He finds,
too, that, though he is more than
willing to weed them out, the
“blacks” won’t help. They run
everywhere while he is seeking
the queen, hang in frenzied
clusters on the bottom of the
frame and* fall in a struggling
mass on the bottom-board. And
the ones not stamping about the
hive are ready for action with
the bayonets out.
Under these conditions the
queen as a rule stays in the
hive, everything is disorganised,
there’s no nectar gathered for
the rest of the day and the
apiarist wishes he had never
heard of bees.
Here is how Silvester, a bee-
keeper on the Queensland border,
does it. Going to the hive to be
dequeened, he removes the
colony from its stand and places
a bottom-board in its stead. On
this he sets a queen-excluder,
then an empty super. He knocks
off the lid of the colony, shakes
all the bees before the entrance
and places the brood combs in
the new super. He sets the lid
back and goes on to the next
hive to be operated. Fifty or so
can be dequeened in a day’s
work. Next morning, he returns
to the first colony, lifts the super
of combs plus the excluder below
and there is the queen sitting,
forlorn on the bottom-board.
Don’t leave a black hive
queenless too long. They get so
cranky if left in that state they’ll
tear down cell after cell or ball
the introduced queen. Give them
emerging brood —the more the
better. If you believe the first
cell given never emerged but was
torn’ down, make very certain
that they haven’t commenced
one of their own in an isolated
part of the colony, or haven’t
already one of their own black
virgins running with them.
Black bees can raise a virgin
from just devilment, and while
they harbor one every expensive
queen you give them will be
balled by the mob. Never
tolerate ’em. Farming good bees


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION.
ETC.
g
HYGEIA DISSOIVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage la
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEiA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write lor free illustrated pamphlet.
—' DISTRIBUTORS: ———
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Rundle
St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St..
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee. Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE; British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank
Chambers, Raffles Place.
The FINEST j
COOKER« t ™ EVfORL ° J
#
r;
*
■ Pf °Wrf es
P/P/JVfl ___
\ ttor WAT M SERVICE
Cooking with the Aga is so clean, and cool,
and simple! In fact, the Aga will cook a
dinner for you all by itself, unwatched. Choose
the Model C. 8., and you will also haye the
comfort of a splendid hot water service: ample
hot-water for all kitchen needs, and hot baths,
too! Economical fuel consumption is guaran-
teed and the hot water service is run from the
one small single fire. Life with Aga is so easy!
THE
AGA
COOKER
10 YEARS GUARANTEE
The British-built Aga is
guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. in 1841)
Australian Agents lor the ABA
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES _____ 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA ______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
OUEENSLANO _ _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _____ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS _ _ _ MALLOCH BROS. Ltd., Perth
SB
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
M
!{i|!
if Ml
*} I 11-, ||f!Hl||
M il illS® 1
■,.< >1
Sil’jißWS
»
iii't'ilia i *'lll iir Jf* :
■
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONXY RATES:
Single Booms—
From 13/6 per night
Doable Rooms—
From 84/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
"metropole
Sydney.
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
is a reward in itself, and if there’s
honey around at all you’ll find
it in your supers.
Elephant-grass
“Jumbo”: Elephant - grass,
known in Africa as Napier’s
fodder, was introduced to Aus-
tralia about 40 years ago and
distributed widely for trial
among coastal dairyfarmers in
N.S.W. They generally allowed
it to grow into a coarse, woody
bamboo-like jungle 10ft. or 12ft.
high. “It’s well named,” they
said, “you need elephants to eat
it.”
West Australians approached it
much more intelligently. In W.A.
elephant-grass has been planted
on the best land available on
the farm and generously ferti-
lised. Under such conditions it
gives nutritious fodder, cut-
ting or grazing regularly every
few weeks, ensuring a suc-
cession of palatable and nutri-
tious young growth.
Planting Potatoes
“Spud”: The usual depth to
plant potatoes is 4in. or sin.,
but some tableland growers in
N.S.W. claim they get better
results from deeper planting.
This may not be so in early
spring planting, but it could be
in later planting.
In Great Britain there has
been a trend towards shallower
planting of the early crop. Such
planting is considered to have
a marked influence on earliness
and quality, as well as promot-
ing root development at the ex-
pense of haulm growth. Tuber
formation is helped by great
variation between day and night
temperatures.
Shallow planting accentuates
such conditions in early spring,
and the energy of the plant is
turned largely to tuber forma-
tion rather than to flowering.
An important point, however,
for shallow planting is that the
surface-soil should be moist.
Under local conditions hilling
would be necessary to prevent
infestation by potato-moth if
shallower planting tended to
induce shallower setting.
Warfarin
“Rodent”: Warfarin was de-
veloped in Wisconsin (U.S.A.)
as one of the most successful of
rat-poisons. It contains a sub-
stance which, when eaten, pre-
vents the action of vitamin K,
which is necessary for the clot-
ting of blood, and the rat dies.
Apart from their suspicion of
unusual taste or smell, they
avoid poison-bait if they see
that their scouts are sick, suffer-
ing pain or dying from eating
the bait.
Warfarin is colorless, odorless
and tasteless, and causes slow,
unobservable progress towards
painless death. Rats therefore
keep on unsuspectingly eating
warfarin-baited food to the
point of a sudden haemorrhage
which they are powerless to
stop.
The name warfarin is partly
based on the initials of the
Wisconsin Alumni Research
Foundation which produced it,
but importers have chosen their
own trade-names for warfarin
baits.
Poll Jerseys
“Agric.”: “We have far too
many essential points of the
breed to maintain without going
in for polls,” said R. W. Carson,
vice-president of the Royal
Jersey Agricultural Society,
Jersey Island, who is visiting
Australia. He considers it a
waste of time to worry about
breeding out horns, as any
swing away from essential breed
characteristics in pursuit of the
poll head would do more harm
than good.
Referring to advanced regis-
ter-testing, Carson considered
Australian breeders should ad-
vocate a longer testing period
than 305 days—preferably 361
days, so long as the next calving
date was within a 14-months’
period. Jersey-breeders, he
said, would find their breed had
a big “pull” over other breeds
in long-distance milking.
Carson expressed apprecia-
tion of the Queensland Jersey
Society’s efforts to popularise
classification. On Jersey Island
every male and female was
classified as “commended” or
“highly commended.” Females
were inspected after having their
first calf, and they would not be
entered in the herd-book unless
they passed the classifiers. Bulls
would not be used before 12
months old, at which age they
were classified for type; rejects
went to the butcher,
Carson, who is visiting all
countries which have a Jersey
Society, is collecting data for a
book on the world activities of
the breed which he will publish
within 12 months.
Fertilisers
“Myrr*’: Fertilisers were
responsible last season for
several stock-poisoning cases in
the Victorian Wimmera, where
super, and zinc in combination
are widely used to fertilise
wheat. The animals had been
fed the fertiliser with salt as a
lick.
In the Victorian “Journal of
Agriculture” A. C. T. Hewitt
states that although the mix-
ture contained most of the ele-
ments essential to animal health
—sodium, chlorine, zinc, sul-
phur, calcium, phosphorus and
fluorine —in this particular lick
they were not in the correct pro-
portions nor forms for stock to
absorb direct, and the zinc in
these cases was in toxic doses.
Hewitt advises against the use
of super, alone as a lick be-
cause of its acid nature and the
likelihood of stock receiving too
much fluorine. Some fluorine
is needed for hardening the
enamel on the teeth, but over-
doses tend to degenerate the
skeleton, which is first noticed
by rapid decay of the bony
material under the enamel on
the teeth. In super, the soluble
phosphate and gypsum (calcium
sulphate) can be harmful.
Bone-chewing
“Humus”: When stock begin
chewing old bones, bark of trees
or carcasses of birds it is a
symptom of phosphate defici-
ency. Immediate corrective is
the increased supply of protein-
rich feeds like lucerne hay, bran,
linseed-meal and meatmeal.
Short-term correctives are licks
(proprietary or home-mixed) of
50-50 super, and salt; 50-50
sterilised sweet bonemeal and
salt or 40-60 dicalcic phosphate
and salt.
Topdressing of pastures with
superphosphates stimulating the
protein-rich legumes, plus the
return of animal manure to the
pastures are the best long-term
correctives.
Fruit Trees in Autumn
“Garden”; When root move-
ment has started it is too late
to transplant fruit-trees. The
stored food of the previous
season is being used, and if the
tree is disturbed this outpouring
of stored supplies is wasted.
Most of the stone fruits should
be planted out before June;
almonds —which start growing
in June —should be very early.
Where there is much wind, place
the strongest roots in the direc-
tion of the prevailing winds.
Where salt is present success
cannot be expected. On a large
property there are often many
soil types, some of which are
totally unsuited to trees while
other spots may be ideal. Often
the choice of soil necessitates a
change in the planning of a
large garden, but it is worth-
while to make a planting where
the trees will grow well and will
be fruitful for many years.
Sydney Sheep Show
“R. Ney”: Last year’s most
successful exhibitors in Sydney
of Southdown sheep, T. V.
Brunskill and Sons, of Ingle-
wood, Wagga, have made 23
Southdown entries for the Syd-
ney sheep show on May 21, the
largest entry so far received
from one stud.
It is expected that 1952
figures will be bettered. Last
year 213 exhibitors, including
17 from Victoria, and one each
from Tasmania, South Australia
and Queensland, entered 877
sheep, 104 fleeces —the highest
for a number of years—made
233 entries in judging competi-
tions and entered 71 dogs in
sheep-dog trials.
Hints for the Farm
“M.”: Apple, pear, plum,
cherry and almond trees won’t
bear satisfactorily if only one
variety is planted. All require
cross-pollination by another
variety, which should either be
grown near-by or grafted on the
tree. A list of commercial fruit-
tree varieties and their pollina-
tion requirement will be sent free
on application to the Superin-
tendent of Horticulture, Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Treasury
Gardens, Melbourne, C. 2.
_ TT „ 0 A , r
C.H. : South Australian
growers have proved that
Bordeaux spray applied m mid-
to late-autumn will increase the
a P ncot and P eacb yield. One
[P am . of theS& w C l°f £
“shot-hole fungus, which deals
death to buds and dama g es the
“Black bud” of apricot,
wh j cll f o u ows a wet winter, is
anot b er harvest-wrecker. One
good s P^ in S of 6-4-40
Bordeaux mixture at three-
quarter leaf-fail and another at
bud-time will prevent bud
f • eit her tree
'
“C.A.A.”: Good seed from
onion, carrot, pamsip, beet or
turnip will be available if the
seed-bearing plants are selected
from lifted roots. Replant one
or two roots in April, May and
June to secure enough seed in the
following January and February
for home-garden needs. The
root will require at least a square
yard of space. Plant with a
goo d portion of the foliage left
above the crown and at the
original depth Plant onion
bulbs so that the neck is ]ust
aboveground-level.
“Mr.”: Antimony-trichloride
in collodion is safer than caustic
for horn-debudding of calves,
The caustic can cause a nasty
burn if it gets on the skin,
whereas the other dies in a few
minutes and won’t run in wet
weather.
“Moyhu”: For slugs and
snails on citrus use a bait of
11b. of calcium-arsenate and
161 b, of bran mixed with water
to a crumbly consistency. Spread
around the bases of trees and
in tree-forks in the evening,
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Owing to the low sunspot activity at present there has
been a considerable distortion of the cyclical sequence, but
the shorter Crohamhurst Cycle suggests that the cold, dry
period due over the area from about Port Macquarie to the
Tropic of Capricorn is about to set in at once. There may
be a late April rain, but it is uncertain.
Outside that area winter rains will be satisfactory, but
inside it rains are very uncertain. It will be watched and
reported for possible rains.


they, and the man and the youth
who took part in both of them,
have been neglected by writers
on Australian birds. Thus far
Wilson has been the subject of
only a few very brief and vague
allusions in ornithological pub-
fications, and Barracks has never
been mentioned at all.
Unfortunately, little is known
regarding Barracks—nothing be-
yond the evidence of his two
small exploratory diaries and
what is contained in Hunter’s
references to him (though not by
name), when writing to Banks,
These documents make it clear
that he possessed courage, intel-
ligence and a fondness for
“travelling through the woods.”
He had volunteered (so Hunter
told Banks) for the first expe-
dition, and, although privations
then almost caused him to lose his
fife, he cheerfully undertook the
second journey soon afterwards,
Obviously, therefore, natural-
,ists of today will do well to
honor the name of, Barracks,
the lad who was the first person
to obtain a specimen of Aus-
tralia’s “pheasant” and who was
also the first person to write
notes, however meagre, regard-
ing the distinctive bird.
In addition, both Barracks
and Wilson merit an accolade
from all bushwalkers in Aus-
tralia. These two adventurers,
on two expeditions, appear to
have walked an average of
about 15 miles a day and to have
covered in all nearly 600 miles
—approximately 240 miles on
the first journey and approxi-
mately 350 miles on the second
occasion. Both journeys, of
course, were made through un-
known and sometimes very
rough country, in severe
weather, and with a minimum of
food and clothing.
At one stage during the first
expedition the only food avail-
able was a rat and a snake, at
another time only roots *and
grubs; and towards the end of
the journey the exhausted youth-
ful explorer had to cut up
almost all his clothing to cover
his bleeding feet. The party
seemed then (Barracks wrote)
to have little chance of “ever
reaching back again.”
Whether Wilson and Barracks
ever went bird-seeking again is
not known. At any rate, there
is only one other record of the
period relating to the lyrebird,
and that is a statement by the
illustrious George Bass: writ-
ten in May, 1799, it advised Sir
Joseph Banks of the sending of
a specimen of “a rare or new
pheasant shot near the Hawkes-
bury River.”
Bass, as it chanced, had been
exploring the strait bearing his
name at the time the first “pheas-
ants” were discovered, and so
he was not aware that specimens
had been sent to England well in
advance of his trophy. That
aside, he might with luck have
forestalled the discovery by Wil-
son and Barracks, for he had
roamed in earlier years through
much rough country, including
the base of the Blue Mountains
and the Burragorang Valley. He
had, in fact, ridden beyond the
Nepean, as a member of a cattle-
seeking party, within a few
weeks of his arrival in Sydney
in 1795 ; but, because the month
was November and the weather
was intensely hot, no birds of
any consequence were either
heard or seen.
That party included b<\th
Hunter and Collins, two men
who were to figure largely, a few
years later, in the history of the
“New South Wales bird of para-
dise.” They had been in the
haunts of the remarkable singer.
more than two years before it
became known, without gaining
any indication of its existence!
Zoologists, of course, always
like to be able to refer to the
particular specimen that serves
as the basis of a species and also
to the spot where it was taken
—the type-specimen and the
type-locality. Neither point can
be established, thoroughly, in
the case of the lyrebird. There
is no means of determining
whether the example used for
the first scientific description
and the first drawing was the
bird shot by Barracks on
January 26 or one of the two
obtained by Wilson on March
30 and April 1.
In any event, it is clear that
the specimen in question was
secured, early in 1798, in rugged
country approximately 60 miles
south-west of Sydney; for,
although the three basic speci-
mens were collected during two
different journeys, examination
of Barracks’s distances and land-
marks reveals that all were
taken in the same general area:
the first one practically on the
site of the present town of
Bargo and the others a short
distance westward of the pre-
sent road between Bargo and
Mittagong,
Some day, perhaps, there will
be erected in this district (wit-
ness a similar case in Western
Australia) a memorial to mark
its historical and ornithological
distinction. The inscription
should commemorate both Wil-
son and Barracks. In particular
it should proclaim the fact that
a courageous and quite youthful
explorer obtained in the area
the first known specimen of the
famous lyrebird, and that he did
so precisely 10 years after the
founding of settlement—on the
date that is now recognised as
Australia Day.
were buying out the “Cosmo-
politan” book-publishing com-
pany.
Saul Flaum was manager of
this concern, a close friend of
Ray’s, and a guest for the night.
Also Edna Ferber, a bird to cage
if possible. I gathered that
Fanny Hurst and Dorothy
Parker had decided their future,
and a Russian Grand Duke with
his manuscript had slipped
through Ray’s fingers.
The Roy Howards of Scripps-’
Howard newspapers were there,
just back from a trip to Mexico
with a determination to eat ham
with rockmelon from now on —a
dish that they discovered in
Mexico and that Ray was serv-
ing as a special for his guests.
Miss Ferber was gentle in a
black lace frock, and seemed
more concerned at having left
her mother alone for the evening
than for the future of her novels.
Of the many guests I particu-
larly remember a tall man who
brought his banjo and sat in a
comer most of the evening sing-
ing nigger-spirituals in a low
voice that didn’t interfere with
the conversation. It appeared
that he only came to play his
banjo and sing, for when any-
one spoke to him he would nod
gravely as he picked at the
strings, then half-close his eyes
and drift into song.
Best-seller novels and the large
prices paid to artists for
magazine-covers were discussed,
also the fabulous prices paid for
Old Masters by Americans.
Norman fought this sales-talk
back by discussing books on
their literary value and quoted a
few chapters from Main Street
and Elmer Gantry to them.
A tense lady with a large nose
was intent on knowing all about
Australia and veered around to
Norman after trying me out. I
heard him obliging with the size
of our country and the vast
amount of gold sent overseas.
“Anyway, he’s safe. They can’t
correct him if he’s a few million
out either way,” I thought.
“What a wonderful memory
your husband has,” the lady said
to me when he had finished with
her. “I really must make a note
of those figures before I forget
them. X may never get them
again.” I assured her she
wouldn’t.
It was a pleasant evening
despite Ray’s efforts to combine
a bit of business. It does seem
to be a heel of a thing to eat a
man’s cake and not agree to his
propositions, like biting the hand
that feeds you,
Norman did give some
reassuring nods to Ray, who
kept on taking him aside to talk,
so The Cautious Amorist was
more or less promised for Ray’s
new publishing company. But it
went to Farrar and Rinehart, and
Norman designed the jacket for
it before we left for London.
Ray did go into a business,
and a couple of years later
brought out an edition of Louis
Stone’s Jonah, but the firm went
the way of many others during
the depression, and all that Mrs.
Stone got was a notice of the
firm’s liquidation, after which
Ray went to Tahiti to write his
memoirs and back to Hollywood
to shoot himself.
While we were in America
Norman had a busy trfhe meet-
ing publishers and authors, most
of whom I missed, except Ogden
Nash and Will Cuppy, whose
book How To Tell Your Friends
From Apes had just been pub-
lished.
I said how much I had
enjoyed it when we went around
to his flat. “Did you really?”
he said, and \yent and brought a
large parcel of newspapers and
a pair of scissors and told me to
go through the papers and cut
out all his Press-notices and
paste them in a book —which I
spent the evening doing. “I don’t
get caught like this again,” I said
to myself as I plodded on with
the glue-pot.
• • • •
While we were hesitating
about renewing our permit and
staying in New York for another
six months, Norman got a letter
from Godfrey Blunden telling
him that Australia had put a
35 per cent, tariff on imported
books, which meant, if it was
maintained, that books would
have to be published or re-
printed in Australia to supply the
booksellers.
Norman made a round of the
New York publishers suggesting
that it would pay any one of
them to establish a publishing
house in Australia.
The answer he got was that
Australia was a preserve of the
English publishers, who insisted
on the copyright over the
“colonial” market on any
American writers published by
them. Norman had spent all of
his time in New York with pub-
lishers and seemed to be taking
the publishing of books rather
seriously. He decided that he
might be able to move an
English firm to do something
about it, and told me to look up
the shipping-list, which I did
willingly, for I was sick of walk-
ing up and down Fifth Avenue
and Forty Second Street looking
at the shops.
The Baltic was due to leave
within a week and I booked our
passage-on her, and we left New
York in the first week in
January, which is not the best
time to cross the Atlantic.
Of course it was raining when
we got to Liverpool, and still
drizzling when we got off the
train in London, and went to
the Strand Palace Hotel, a
favorite place for Australians.
Norman had a temperature and
went straight to bed, where he
stayed for a week. His son
Phillip and Brian Penton were
the first visitors and came
frequently that week.
Gentle knocks on the door
meant reporters, who were most
considerate and did not stay
long. As soon as Norman was
well enough we went to Earl’s
Court to see Bill Dyson, who
was seriously ill in a hospital,
and were only allowed a few
minutes with him. Bill was
cartoonist for the “Daily
Herald.” It was suggested by
the editor that Norman act as
guest-cartoonist during , Bill’s
illness. The fee offered was very
big, but Norman was only
interested in getting on with his
scheme for publishing books.
We went to a hotel in Russell-
square which had central heat-
ing—at least it had the pipes,
and when I felt them there was
the faintest suggestion of
warmth. Bailing-up the house-
maid I asked her to show me
how to turn the heat on. “Why
it’s on all the time,” she
informed me.
I gave up the idea after that,
and walked out as much as
possible to keep warm. We par-
ticularly liked to walk to Brian
Penton’s flat in Coram-street be-
cause he always had a coal-fire
burning.
He was writing Land takers at
the time, which interested
Norman very much; also he
liked to have conversation with
Brian, who could talk on any
subject, and he was so cheerful.
In all the years thaf I knew him
I never saw a hint of gloom. In
his piercing dark eyes there was
always a twinkle of delight, or
derision. He had a charm of
voice that veiled the sting of a
wasp, when so disposed to sting.
I walked down Regent-street
with him one day, and nearly
everyone turned to look at him
in his bright silk shirt and collar
to match, hatless with his wad of
dark wiry hair shooting up from
his pyramid of a forehead.
Suddenly one day he asked us
if we would like to take his flat
over, and he would move into a
larger one facing a park. Of
course we were delighted, and
moved there within a few days,
and Brian came to visit us for
a change, Phillip Lindsay also
came frequently with his wife
Jean, who was small and dainty
and wore her mass of wavy
brown hair falling loosely
shoulder-length. She dressed in
the Rosetti manner, tight-bodiced
velvet frocks with flowing ankle-
length skirts, that looked quaint
amidst the mass of London’s
severely-coated women. Phillip
wore his baggy grey trousers,
brown coat and open-neck shirt
with soft collar and loose-end
tie. He was constantly occupied
in brushing back an unruly hank
of hair.
Frank Fox, long since Sir
Frank, asked us to lunch at the
Cafe Royal with madam, his
wife, who was very gentle and
sweet. Frank had important
matters on hand and said that
he would come to Australia. He
could have taken the trip when
the Prince of Wales came out,
but preferred to come later when
the limelight would not have to
be shared.
I found that a boat was leav-
ing for Australia after we had
been at Brian’s flat for six weeks,
and then not another for two
months. I announced to Norman
that we would book on it.
I went to Phil’s flat at Hamp-
stead to dine on Irish stew the
last night before sailing. The
stew was cooking on an open
fire. “Jeanie makes wonderful
Irish stew,” Phil said, baring his
feet to the fire while Jeanie got
the plates and we sat in the fire-
light to eat it. Owen, a poet,
came later and we talked till
midnight of Australia and old
friends, and they walked down
to the .underground station to
say farewell to me.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 223
Across
1 Yokel to jostle the relations. (7)
5 playwright was in front when so
draped. (7) ...
9 Military adventurers sound liKe
horse-breakers. (11) ,
10 — j am swallowed by the horse and
cart. (3) ...
11 — Bikini, for instance, is just the
place for a noise that may ring
in our ears. (5)
12 — Animal breast is crisp and snappy
and French. (7)
15 —Group of juvenile film comedians.
(3 4)
17— Bamboozle 2000 between the
grippe and the beef. (7)
18— European and I associating with
the Rhode Island one. (7)
20 — Kingsley novel about a conflict
between Christianity and Greek
Philosophy in old Alexandria. (7)
21 — Steak might be defined thus for
the quantities absorbed. (7)
22 — How one claims medical qualifi-
cations in pidgin wine. (5)
23 Favorite fit of ill-temper. (3)
24 The fiend and the very pious
personage have a tax to show.
(ID
25 — Priests badly mauled by the mark-
ings of a tiger. (7)
26 — Tunesmith who works in planes?
(6)
Down
1 — Cody account for beef purchases.
(7, 4)
2 Hops into this acrid Batman
address. (7, 6)
3 Asiatic capital gives bulk a
change. (5)
4 Schnozzle gets the sack! (7)
5 Law officer is a female follower
of the “Red Shadow,” (7)
6 Quadruped. (3)
7 Walk off! I nferried a wool-
producer to a flesh-and-blood
theatre. (10, 5)
g—What is put on by the affected
hound? (3)
13 — Armaments manufacturer. (5)
14 — Vestas grow fat engagements.
(3-7)
16 —a pith of the matter is to “board’
cattle or sheep. (5)
19 — No striking success over 1000 is
Hiawatha’s grandmother. (7)
20 — A cry of praise Porthos dis-
ported with Karenina. (7)
22 Crag with a moustache on the
engine. (5)
23 — Step . down when the booby
comes up. (3)
24 A quick swim. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 222


TO BREED
® DARWIN
m ■
.
WM
■ ::■•■• .•
I :
mm
mm
m
m
SB
m
■ ■'■
■■-
mm
*
ml
mm
m
U
wm
m
-a
•■ . ; as '- "-
' L Vfc?
•>
*& i*V
U* '
WM
mmmm
£
_
® ALICE SPRINGS
HD
.-v #
littwiii
(i
BEEF ROADS” • WATER • DEFENCE • FOOD PRODUCTION
HASTINGS PEERING
NORTHERN RESEARCH RESERVES
HASTINGS DEERING (NORTHERN TERRITORY) PTY. LIMITED, Alice Springs and Darwm, N.T.
HASTINGS DIESELS LIMITED, 102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane; Alice Springs, Northern Territory; Lae, New Guinea.
HASTINGS DEERING-QUEENSLAND PTY. LTD., 102-124 Melbourne Street, South Brisbane.
.FOOD
pomTUi
Aerial view of 3
million-gallon dam
under construction
on Hastings
Deering Northern
Research Reserves,
Alice Springs area,
with windmill bore.
300,000 • gallon
turkey-nest tank,
house site, cattle
troughs, etc. Note
the size of the
trees.
" Caterpillar' 8
Tractor with
Bulldozer and
Scraper, digging
out a 3 million*
gallon dam,
Hastings Deeriwg
Northern Research
Reserves. An
actual insight into
the magnitude of
this task.
Close -up of big
earth - moving
machines and
"Caterpillar"
Tractors engaged
on dam construc-
tion, Hastings
Deering Northern
Research Reserves,
Alice Springs area.
Water conserva-
tion and irrigation
will turn now
barren areas into
a beef-producing
country.
"Beef from our North" has
always appealed to Mr. H.
Hastings Peering as an urgent
national necessity, for the
twin-objects of feeding our
growing population and
supplying our defence forces.
Beef is a vital food and a vital
munition. "Breed Beef!" has
long been Mr. Deering's
dictum.
Photos at left show activities
on the Hastings Peering
Northern Research Reserves
in the Alice Springs area,
which cover more than 2,600
square miles of territory.
On this property dams are
being sunk, roads are being
built, pasture protection and
fodder conservation are being
developed, and other activi-
ties are being promoted under
expert control. The ultimate
objective is to greatly
increase Australia's beef
production by introducing the
best beef cattle on well-
watered pasture areas.
A train load of 300 head of fat
cattle was shipped from Alice
Springs early in April, showing the
progress made in this area in less
than three years.


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road. Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W,
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Ltd., Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-operative
Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co,
Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
This entire page is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-ViRTUE LIMITED
April
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1953
THE SEVEN WONDERS OF THE ANCIENT WORLD
HAVE BEEN OUT-GLASSED
A tiny, infinitesimal particle, shooting around at a speed of over 100,000 miles per second has proved the key to the
mysteries of the Universe, and has revolutionised civilization in little more than the space of man’s lifetime , . . It’s name?
. . . the Electron.
In a split second a man’s voice is heard around the world .... calculations
that would take an army of scientists years to work out are made by an
Electronic Brain in hours! Electricity has brought us all these modem
wonders.
Let us go back to the end of the
nineteenth century , . . not so long
ago, after all! What was life like
before the cables and the power lines
started to snake out across the face
of the globe? In those days, no hard-
headed businessman was prepared to
invest in the new electric toy. The
trams Mr. Citizen travelled to work
in were horse-drawn . . . the latest
thing was a cumbersome steam-
driven model! News travelled slowly
.... by horse-back, by slow, coal-
burning steamships.
The housewife slaved with brush,
broom and washing-board to keep
her home and the family’s clothing
clean.
The blacksmith worked at his anvil
hammering out axe-heads the way
it had been done for centuries.
To travel a few miles from the
cities was to enter another world in
those days . . . . The means of com-
munication was by post, and that was
a slow, uncertain business.
But Electricity would change all
that.
One by one, the problems began
to be solved. The telegraph poles
were going up along the railway
tracks. In 1844 there was only one
small telegraph line in all the world.
Today, Americans alone send about
300 million telegrams. . . .the paper
they are delivered on would cover
about 2500 acres!
The induction-coil in a motor-car
costs a few shillings to make today,
and they’re made in millions! Fifty
years ago one of them would have
been worth a small fortune! In those
days reputable magazines carried ad-
vertisements for such electrical con-
traptions as the “Electric Belt.” This
consisted of a leather belt on to which
copper and zinc discs were rivetted.
The most outrageous claims were
seriously attributed to it, such as
curing ills like rheumatism and mus-
cular pain. It was a source of more
“pep” than any modern breakfast-
food manufacturer would claim for
his product! Edison’s incandescent
electric light was first used in a com-
mercial lighting system in 1886, and
in 1 890 a condemned prisoner in a
New York gaol had the dubious
honor of being the first man to be
executed in the “Electric chair.”
Just before the turn of the century
William von Roentgen discovered
the X-ray, an electrical wonder that
has proved one of humanity’s most
powerful weapons against disease.
Marconi patented his wireless-tele-
graphy in 1897—then came short-
wave radio, and with it the radio-
telephone and radio-photo. Radar
and Television are the latest addi-
tions to the long list of Electrical
miracles.
HAVE COUNTRY - DWELLERS
BENEFITED BY ELECTRICITY’S
PROGRESS?
Electricity is proving to be the
greatest single force for the techno-
logical progress of civilisation ever
developed. In the factory, in the
laboratory, in the hospital, in the
home.... on land, sea, and in the
air... . electricity has truly revo-
lutionised modern life.
It was to bring these benefits to
those still beyond the reach of power
lines that Moffatt-Virtue engineers
designed and built the Moffat-Virtue
Light and Power Plant.
Today these plants mean to Country
dwellers all over Australia the extra com-
fort and leisure that electricity has made
possible. Mr. Country-dweller, do you
realise just how much comfort an M.V.
Light & Power Plant can bring into your
home ? Get full details of what these Plants
can do for you, from your nearest State
Distributor.
Whatever the piece of Equipment you buy ...
IT'S QUALITY THAT COUNTS!
The wise buyer looks for
quality because it means he’ll
get reliable economical ser-
vice, and save money by
avoiding costly repair and
maintenance bills. That’s
why so many people buy
M.V. Products.
Illustrated is the M.V.
“Type J. 8.” 32/45 volt 700
wait Lighting Plant, ideal for
the smaller home. It’s
powered by the famous
Moffat-Virtue “V 3” 2£ h.p.
Petrol Engine.
In addition, there are 50
and 1 1 0 volt models, in both
Petrol and Diesel-Operated
types. Moffat Virtue Plants
are in use in leading home
steads, and in shops, guest-
hous e s, hotels, etc
throughout Australia. The
Australian Military Forces,,
long users of M.V. Lighting
Plants, have proved them for
unsurpassed quality and de-
pendability under the most
rigorous conditions.
Remember, when you buy
an M.V. Product, you buy
Quality!
M.V. LIGHTING PLANTS
DON'T HAVE “BLACKOUTS”!
These days many city-dwellers envy
their country cousins for their light-
ing plants! They’ve got to go with-
out power because the demands of
increased city population and
secondary industries have grown
too fast.
It’s an astonishing fact that in
some parts of Australia people pay
more for a unit of Council-supplied
power than that same unit costs
when produced by an M.V. Light-
ing & Power Plant!
Recently conducted tests proved
the amazing economy of Moffat-
Virtue Lighting & Power Plants.
For example, an M.V. 1000 watt
32 volt Plant produces a week’s
supply of power for the average
household for a few shillings, and,
of course, an M.V. Lighting Plant
will keep on running as long as
there’s fuel in the tank!.. ..No
blackouts, no fire-danger from
candles, lanterns or pressure-lamps!
A view of a section of a
testing-bench at Moffat-
Virtue’s Rosebery, N.S.W.
Factory.
This is where the M.V.
Lighting Plant you buy
will undergo a rigorous
test before being checked
out as perfect.
INCREASED LEISURE FOR
COUNTRY HOUSEWIVES!
Housewives whose homes are beyond the reach of power lines are dis-
covering that the M.V. Lighting Plant is the means to “city-comfort.”
They need no longer wonder
what it would be like to have
electric light in every room and an
electric iron, toaster, vacuum
cleaner, kitchen - mixer, washing
machine, fans, radio, etc With
a lighting plant they can run them
all!
Almost every modern electrical
household-appliance is now manu-
factured for use with a Lighting and
Power Plant.... even the latest
“microgroove record-player” radio-
gram !
Moffat-Virtue Lighting & Power
Plants are available in sizes to suit
every requirement.
All give unsurpassed perform-
ance . . . .reliable, economical,
trouble-free! They are so simple in
design that a child can operate one
with complete safety. A snap of
the starter-switch, and the generator
starts charging the batteries, and
supplying ample power for your
needs!
You can obtain further par-
ticulars from any of the State Dis-
tributors listed below.
