

FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS
BUY SEPPELTS SOLERO SHERRY
The Bulletin
“THE AUSTRALIAN PRESS IS BORN/’ by M. H. Ellis
“The Bulletin, ” Vol. 74—No. 3806
Wednesday, January 21, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
Montacute House, a Monument to Elizabethan England
IN the middle of rich farming country, four miles from Yeovil in Somerset,
is Montacute—one of the best preserved Elizabethan houses in England.
This architectural gem expresses in stone the rise to power and wealth of
Edward Phelips, an eminent lawyer, during the reign of Queen Elizabeth I.
It was he who led the prosecution of the notorious Guy Fawkes in 1606,
following the plot to blow up the Houses of Parliament. Later he became
Speaker of the House of Commons and Master of the Rolls.
The building of Montacute was begun in 1588 and completed thirteen
years later. Its architect was John Thorpe, and the local golden-coloured
stone was used in its construction, features of which are the ranges of vast
mullioned windows. It is this excess of window over wall space and the
Dutch gables which lend character to this dignified and perfectly proportioned
mansion.
The interior is no less magnificent, and is particularly notable for its
rich panelling, elaborate plaster work and its heraldic glass. The Great
Chamber, measuring 44 feet long by 21 feet wide, has no fewer than forty-two
coats of arms, with surrounding ornamentation, in its four great windows.
In the first Elizabethan Age heraldry was closely associated with social status.
and played an important part in the decorative schemes of homes of those
entitled to bear arms.
The hall has similar heraldic glass, and some elaborate plaster work
interestingly illustrates ancient forms of punishment. One depicts a husband
condemned to mind the baby, but he finds solace in drawing a measure of
beer; he is observed, however, by his wife, who smites him with her shoe.
Another shows the “Riding of the Skimmington,” in which a husband is
tied to a pole and paraded round the village because he allowed himself to
be henpecked by his wife.
Extending the whole length of the house, on the third floor, is the Great
Gallery, 180 feet long and lit by sixteen windows. During the winter it was
used as a place of exercise for the ladies and children when the weather was
unfavourable for going out of doors. Not least of Montacute’s many
attractions are the magnificent gardens, lawns, terraces and yew hedges which
set off by vivid contrast the variety of flowers that bloom in the surrounding
borders. Having outlived the splendour of more spacious times, Montacute
is preserved for posterity by the National Trust, who welcome visitors to
this great Elizabethan mansion.


FrelWfJo'rfS?
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
” CUT HERE AND MAIIT ———
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(S-B- 153) Age
The Red Page
MUNNINGS AND
MODERN ART
I The final volume of Sir Alfred Mun-
nings’s autobiography The Finish
(Museum Press)—is as vitally alive as
the two preceding it, and the completed
work convinces me that it is a unique
example of the most difficult of all literary
exercises; that of self-revelation and a
life-size portrait of the writer-in contrast
to most autobiographies, which are an
industrious procedure of taking cover
from detection under an idealised self-
portrait, after the manner of the con-
ventional hero-motive in a novel.
Munnings has caught the trick of using
the timeshift without any effect of dis-
ruption. He strolls at leisure back and
forth in memory, letting an event of the
past jostle one of yesterday, yet the effect
of continuity is never broken. And this,
I think, is due to that resolution of mind
which has made work the major obsession
of his whole life.
All that happens to him leads to or
from the action of work, which con-
stitutes the sense of a completed self-
identity between work and life. And
nowhere in these three volumes is there
a hint of that ignoble emotion, self-pity
for the evils that life does to all of us,
which makes such dolorous reading in
most autobiographies, chiefly in those
passages referring to suffering childhood.
When in youth Munnings lost the sight
of one eye by an accident (of which I
read with a pang of horror ; for what
worse thing can befall an artist?), he never
for a moment surrenders in memory to
the black depression that must have
attacked him as he lay long weeks in
hospital with bandaged eyes, or in the
struggle he had later to command the
focus of his remaining eye, and force
control on the synthetic union of hand
and eye. Once, when thrown from a
spirited horse because he could not
control it with gout in the hands, he broke
two ribs and sustained a crushed ankle,
yet was back at work next day; now
merely damning a trifling mishap which
interrupted a day’s painting. A high-
couraged mind, both in thought and
action.
This autobiography is rare in another
respect, in that it is written by an artist.
IHaydon’s journal is the only other
painter’s autobiography which might be
compared to Munnings’s as a genuine
literary achievement. But how very
different the personalities of two artists
presented in these works. Haydon, with
a very mediocre talent, keeps up an in-
cessant clamor about the Olympian per-
fection of his works, and finally cuts his
throat because people went to look at
Tom Thumb the dwarf instead of one of
his paintings; while Munnings, a painter
of high quality and unquestioned achieve-
ment, is for ever confessing that achieve-
ment falls short of the aspiration that
conceived it.
There is a passage in the present volume
which is extremely revealing of the
technical difficulties which beset such an
aspiration. He is painting a particularly
beautiful horse, and asks himself why
this should not be his supreme effort.
Analysing its problem, he says:
There is a certain depth and transparency
in a well-groomed coat of a horse—bay,
brown or chestnut. There is nothing opaque
about it, neither is there in a bottle or a
piece of glazed pottery. On the surface of a
live animal, be it a dog, a horse, a cow,
a bird, or even a fish out of water, there
are highlights, and when we grasp the
meaning of these highlights, it becomes' in-
teresting. We will take the covering of
horses. On browns the lights are cooler,
greyer-bluer; on a bay, less cool; on a
chestnut inclining to pinky-grey. On a
well-grown horse in the sun, these lights are
devastating lam still wondering what
is the actual color of the shadow on the
horse. But no writing can give any idea
of the intricacies, the color, tones, know-
ledge of horse-anatomy, conglomerated
together in the mind of one who is trying
to paint a horse. What of his eyes? What
of the modelling of his head? ... of his
neck, where the most puzzling things
happen in the way of lighting? All I can
say is, let him who can, paint it. I give
it up. I can no more explain these paint-
ing problems than I can dart like a
chaffinch from one tree to another.
And of that painting he finally adds,
“This —in my view, my one and only
good painting of a horse.”
If I had never seen a painting by
Mannings I would know he was a painter
of high quality by reading the above
passage. Only a painter who has striven
with every power of concentration he
possesses to conquer the technical problem
of a color-impasto, and has succeeded in
controlling it, could be so precisely aware
of the technical problem. And only one
who had mentally envisioned the aesthetic
appeal of that problem, if he could solve
it, could be so certain in the dispiriting
conviction that it cannot be concreted in
art.
Munnings is unquestionably the best
painter of horses of all who practised
that particular metier. There have been
competent-enough horse-painters before
him, who made a portrait of a horse their
objective, and left it at that. But, with
Munnings, the horse has merely
centralised his lifelong concentration on
the craft of painting. He has painted
other subjects equally well; landscapes,
river-scenes, garden- and conversation-
pieces ; subjects which have given him a
wider range than the almost rigid conven-
tions which horse-portraiture forces on the
artist. But, like all artists with an idiosyn-
cratic outlook on life, he makes one par-
ticular subject the test of his technical
command over a medium.
No doubt temperament in Munnings
selected the horse for that special test.
He is a horse-lover, a horseman, a lover
of the countryside, its people, their way
of life, and the animals which are the
staple product of their industry. And
since those gentry who own racehorses
and who go hunting are of the moneyed
class, he naturally finds his chief patrons
among them. But, all that aside, it is
the eternal training of the eye to see
and the hand to record that is the un-
resting quest of a sincere artist like
Munnings.
This problem of translating into paint
the textual surface of any object or plane
of matter on which light falls is practically
the final test of mastery over any medium
in plastic art. No matter whether its
subject is a horse’s coat or a woman’s
nude body, a tree, a face, a passage of
landscape, its point of attack realistic or
romantic, classical or homespun, its
virtue as a work of art will remain at
the artist’s technical command over his
medium. Arid that understanding wipes
out the whole product of primitive
Modernism in art, since Modernism-dis-
cards every technical difficulty by which
quality in a painting may be estimated.
No other exhibit of megalomania has ever
yet made the monstrous claim that it
exists outside all standards of value that
are in themselves the very essence of a
civilised consciousness ; a consciousness
built up since the dawn of history by
art’s laborious effort to clarify man’s
sensory response to actuality by words,
forms and sounds. And it is only by
such a meticulous transcript of actuality
which records the play of light on the
multiform surfaces of this earth that its
crude factuality may be transformed into
a mental image, and be thereby consti-
tuted the very substance of mind itself.
And this the artist must strive to do
by a few colored pigments extracted
from the earth and mixed with a medium
to make them fluid. With this wretched
equipment he must strive to record the
vibration of light, the depth of space,
and the everchanging values of externality
from dawn to dusk, from winter to
summer, from, if he deals in human
emotion, life to death. And the approxi-
mation of that transcript from nature is,
say, a flick of whitelead to try to catch
the diamond-bright sparkle of light on
water.
No wonder Munnings, like every other
sincere artist who has striven with the
infernal complexities of a plastic medium,
says in his heart, “It can’t be done.” Yet
it is done, as far as that approximation
referred-to may be made. And that under
terms which make it apparent that a
work of art may transcend its subject-
matter from nature. I have on my walls
a small landscape by Lance Solomon. Its
subject is nothing but an arid stretch of
country fading out into distant ranges
on the skyline, with a single tree in the
near distance and a foreground giving the
sense of coming forward to the observer’s
viewpoint. A more unlikely subject it
would be hard to find as an exercise in
paint, and one that, in actuality, the passer-
by would hardly cast a glance at. Yet
so perfect are the picture’s atmospheric
values, so infinite is the.depth of space
conveyed in its sky, so vibrant is the
reflection of light upwards from the
earth, that it is a lovely thing, and I
never look at it without a fresh stirring
of pleasure. . ,
Achievement in these terms, which
the terms in which Munnings has rrm
his own statement in art, have
derided by the fatuous Modernist taunt
that such a meticulous transcript o
nature is the art of the camera ,
now that witling outcry has been tina y
retorted-on by the camera itself.
the discovery of color-photography we
are now able to estimate all that the
camera may do of recording actua iy,
and the garish vulgarity and disharmony
of color so recorded can only be equalled
by the products of Modernist art. But
why bother to discuss such bedlamite
foolery? The best retort on the Modernist
artist is to confirm him in his infantile
splodgings, on the Johnsonian principle
that if you see a fool rolling downhill,
give him a kick to send him fasten
All the same, Munnings has made a
most entertaining and instructive chapter
on the subject of Modernism, which in-
cludes the now-historic speech he made
when resigning his presidency of the
Royal Academy, and which was greeted
with such glad outcries from that cultured
section of the public which has arrived
at satiation by disgust for the obscenities
of Modernist art. Many of these he has
recorded, and an academic waverer ou
the theme of “There might be something
in it” would do well to read that section
of the work. To the editors of daily
newspapers, also, it might convey some
dim understanding that they are not
advancing the circulation of their rags
by boosting Modernism in art and deriding
sound painting, since the vast mass of
their readers know nothing and care
nothing about the polemics of the art
world, the cultured minority is merely
bored and irritated by the blitherings o*
their art critics, and the only section ot
the public that applauds them is that very
small one inhabited by the back-slum
denizens of the studio-world.
There is one piece of evidence presenteci
by Munnings which is a final and irre •
futable verdict on the worthlessness ot
Modernist painting. In an exhibition held
in London of its Continental products,
the works of 96 “masters” were cata-
logued. Ninety-six “masters”! If at
the end of a century the genuine masters
of painting may be counted on the fingers
of one hand, that century has done well.
I do not doubt that, at the end ot
this century the name of Alfred Mun-
nings will be among those painters whose
works have survived the infallible test
of time. As for those of the 96 masters
of Modernism, and all the two-a-penny
masters who have arrived since that ex-
hibition, if their wretched works survive,
which is doubtful, those will be only so
much data added to the monstrous record
of primitive brutality which has inflicted
two world-wars on this earth.
NORMAN LINDSAY
Essays by John Fairfax
Drift of Leaves, by John Fairfax,
nicely produced by Ure Smith Pty., Ltd,
with decorations by Cedric Emanuel, con-
sists of short essays mostly contributed to
“S. M. Herald” when Fairfax, who died
in 1951, at the age of 47, was that news-
paper’s war-correspondent in the Solo-
mons.
One of the pleasing things about it is
the author’s staunch and knowledgeable
admiration for the Americans:
When the McKean, a destroyer transport,
was sunk off Bougainville, the sea about
her was ablaze with burning oil. In the
midst of it floated an unconscious sailor.
Without hesitation two marines swam into
the flames to rescue him, pushing their
life-jackets before them. The sailor suf-
fered no further injuries. The two marines
are in hospital suffering from third-degree
burns. Hiey may not recover. I think it is
one of the bravest things that has ever
happened.
Fairfax tells a story against himself
when, as a war-correspondent laden with
gear, he climbed off a transport at
Bougainville to hear a marine say loudly,
“Look, boys, a butterfly-hunter!” There
is a little story of a Catalina shot down
at night in the Pacific, the crew aided by
natives and dodging Japanese ashore; a
glimpse of life under bombardment on
Munda, where a U.S. soldier, told to make
his own way down to the beach after a
bombing in which many were wounded,
replied calmly as he sat smoking on a
rock, “Well, I would, only I haven’t got
a foot” ; a “Dumbo” taking-off by wave-
hopping on a stormy sea after it had
rescued an airman on his life-raft; a
shot-down airman who, after swimming
with great difficulty to shore, saw next
morning a naked man walking across the
beach to the sea—his gunner, whom he
thought had been drowned when the
waves tore them apart.
A very terrible sidelight on the war,
none the less terrible for the quiet narra-
tion and the courage of the men con-
cerned, is a visit to the Queen Victoria
Cottage Hospital in England, centre of
plastic surgery for airmen. On the lighter
side are the pictures of a Solomons native
medicine-man who seemed, either by herbs
or magic, to be genuinely effective with
scorpion-bites ; and the naval men who
rescued two Polynesian women in distress
and, radioing their headquarters for per-
mission to “bring two ladies” when they
left the island by flying-boat, received the
answer, “Yes, but I’m surprised at you” •
and the seagull named Oscar who made
friends with Pilot Smith, of the U.S.,
when he was three weeks at sea in a
rubber dinghy: “Somewhere over the
wide Pacific sweeps Oscar—hunting the
deeps and the island channels for a com-
municative man in a little rubber boat.”
There is no particular force about this
little book to make it a bestseller, nor
has it the documentary Australian in-
terest of earlier books by John Fairfax
of travel by road and river; but for its
glimpses of war in the Pacific, its quiet
sincerity and humor, and because none
of the articles, however slight, is without
a point worth making, it will be read
with interest and pleasure by anyone who
happens to pick it up.
Two Bestsellers
It is interesting to take a bestseller and
wonder, a little enviously, why. Take
two: The Lovers, by Kathleen Winsor
(Macdonald), and The Challenge, by E. V.
Timms (Angus and Robertson).
In the title story of Miss Winsor’s three
long stories, a young wife, killed by her
husband in adultery, goes to hell, and
vies for the Devil’s favors with her mother,
who descended into hell for the same
reason when only a little older than the
daughter.
Mr. Timms continues his Australian
historical saga from the year 1853 on-
wards. A girl visits her dying mother,
head of a gang of whaling freebooters
in a Bass Strait island. The mother dies
leaving the daughter all her wealth in
Melbourne, and cursing the Sydney man
who heartlessly abandoned her and her
daughter after seducing her. The
daughter is saved from the island gang
by four noble cutthroats, and goes with
them to Melbourne, where one of her
I saviors turns out to be a member of the
peerage, who has been trying to forget
having killed his father in a carriage-
smash.
Also chasing the member of the peer-
age is a beautiful English girl. Everyone
visits the goldfields, and on their return
the English girl accuses the woman-
freebooter’s daughter of being illegitimate.
That mettlesome child thereupon rams
the heel of her shoe down the English
girl’s throat in Melbourne’s best pub (half-
owned by her mother), and then pro-
ceeds to Sydney, armed with a declara-
tion that her mother was in fact married
to her father ; this she announces to her
father when he is at dinner with his
bigamous wife and friends; afterwards
returning to her mother's island with her
English peer and three other champions.
The first similarity one detects between
Miss Winsor and Mr. Timms is their
melodrama ; even without the historical
detail which would have made the lady’s
Forever Amber such a perfect com-
parison with The Challenge, the artificial
dialogue and cardboard characterisation
of Miss Winsor’s hell and Mr. Timms’s
Melbourne are of a piece: the jerky
prose, the almost amateur technique, of
Miss Winsor’s description of hell is
paralleled by the mechanised devices by
which Mr. Timms puts into the mouths of
his characters long tracts of historical
research.
They next recall Anatole France’s
objection to Rabelais: that he was much
too good. Anyone expecting from Miss
Winsor’s reputation a view of hell with
the lid off must be satisfied with really
very mild fantasies; and it is not enough
for Mr. Timms’s heroine to inherit her
mother’s ill-gotten gains; she must be
proved innocent of the shame which alone
could have produced such a mother.
Yet it is this revenge-motif that com-
pletes the melodrama of wish-fulfilment,
as Miss Winsor’s heroine’s wrestlings with
the Devil complete a melodrama of wish-
fulfilrnent. In both cases the process is
uncomplicated by wit or real humor ; in
both cases the power of the books is to
be measured in terms of the strength of
the wish ; and that is what both these
authors have —they have faith in then
poster-drawn phantasms, a faith which
not all of us can share, but enough,
evidently, to make it worth while.


J
<«■
P7W
—MtU'iaat— —OB
r
sSi
■'
♦>LV
m
iVY//
h\^
-1
1 w% /■
SLAZENGER'S LITHGOW RIFLE PARTS
Single Shot Rifle Parts. Barrel £6/2/-. Bolt complete 84/-. Sear
Extractor 16/7. Firing Pin 26/-. Firing Pin Spring lOd. Rear Sight
complete 14/-. Blade Front Sight 8/2. Stock complete 59/3.
Repeating Rifle Parts. Barrel 94/9. Breech Bolt complete £B/6/8. Stock
complete 89/3. Magazine 21/4, Firing Pin 16/2. Bead Foresight 13/6.
Complete Rear Sight T4/-.
Slazenger rifles at new reduced prices!
And what a gift these Slazenger Rifles make! That price reduction means no
reduction in their superb quality. These and our other hunting equipment will make your gifts intriguing,
unusual and decidedly inexpensive. I hat is what you want this year more than any other, that is what we
give you!
■ r
•. ■
V
/
I \\t*
■V
■®S3 = _.
X
w
VI
©
FOR ALL YOUR ACCESSORIES AS WELL
SEE ANTHONY HORDERNS 1
Slazenger's Rifles
Model Al. Twenty-two cal. Slazenger’s Single Shot Bolt Action
Rifle. Twenty-four-inch tapered barrel, elevating rear sight. Short
long or long rifle cartridges. £B/19/6.
Model 12. Twenty-two cal. Repeating Bolt Action Rifle. Twenty-
five-inch heavy barrel box magazine. Chambered long rifle
cartridges. Priced at £l5/19/6.
Canvas Rifle Covers. Twenty-two cal. full length suitable for
single shot rifles. 30/-. Repeaters 37/6.
Leather Cartridge Belts. Twenty-two cal., 9/6 each. Twenty-two
cal. Leather Wrist Bands for only 3/3.
Sling Swivels for 4/6. Leather Rifle Slings 7/-.
Twenty-five-yard Rifle Targets. Dozen for only 1/-.
SIS
if!
m
m
hunting Knife of stainless steel. An unusual gift, moderately
priced. 27/6, 30/-, 32/6.
Leather Sheaths 3/-.
A-thutii in advertising
.nthony Horderns
as
Yes, Phone and Mail Orders
GUN DEPT., LWR. PITT ST. BOX 2712, G.P.O. PHONE M 2401


As Worn (Or Not)
HATS FOR HE-MEN
and Others
By GAVIN CASEY
MY father was an old goldfielder,
and, like ' everybody in or
around the Kalgoorlie of his day,
wore only one sort of hat. This
was a Woodrow design with a fine, wide,
bound-edged, curling brim, and a crown
large enough to permit of considerable
exercise of imagination in the arrange-
ment of dents. He always referred scorn-
fully to smaller lids as “boys’ hats,” but
he also called beer a “boys’ drink” and
cigarettes a “boys’ smoke,” and adopted
various other attitudes too powerful for
me to take in my decadent time.
In the matter of hats, for instance, I
feel sure he would call the things most
of us wear nowadays something worse
than “boys’ hats”—probably “girls’ hats.”
Though devoted to beer and cigarettes,
I feel that the old gentleman had a very
sound idea when it came to hats, and I
would much like to wear a Woodrow in
the style of his day if I could ( a ) find
out where to get one, (b) afford one
when I found out, and (c) had the courage
to appear publicly in it.
I would even like to have some of the
lesser hats I used to wear myself in the
times before we all descended to hatless-
ness or the abominable pudding-shaped,
standardised objects that seem to be the
only skull-adornment available nowadays.
Even in my comparatively recent
youth a hat Was not merely something
to keep the sun and the snow, if any, off
one’s head. It had such uses as becoming
a drinking-trough for the dog, of course,
but, most importantly of all, it was a
decoration and an adornment, like the
feathery headdress of American Indian
chiefs and the massive top-pieces of New
Guinea headhunters.
Our hats weren’t actually quite like
those, but they occurred in infinite
variety, and were malleable enough to be
punched, pulled, sat-upon and kicked into
the approximate shape of the wearer’s
personality.
The men of today don’t really like the
sort of hats they have to buy in order to
avoid trouble with the wife, and there
is some proof of this in the large number
who make shamefaced and generally un-
successful attempts to alter the shape of
the things. Sticking up above the
marcelle-waves of the hatless youngsters
in any crowd are the heads of men of
my age and older, mostly pathetically
adorned by pot-shaped objects their
owners have tried to beat into submission.
But the hats are obstinate, and resist like
iron any shape other than those seen in
American magazine advertisements.
If my contemporaries and elders only
knew it, the main result of their efforts
is to make themselves look vaguely like
raw recruits in the Army, before their
Digger hats have assumed any character.
The Digger hat is, of course, one of
the world’s most magnificent pieces of
headwear. Without being hammered
and moulded into any of the exaggerated
contours favored by the “lairs,” or worn
at fantastic angles displeasing to sergeant-
majors, it starts to think, feel and look
like its boss in a remarkably short time.
In two wars it has been an Army com-
pensation for uniforms the rest of which
seldom seemed to have anything in
common with their wearers, and it has
proudly passed into two periods of
“peace” as a cady of character which
makes the wearer feel a bigger, tougher,
more adventurous man whether he puts
it on to fight a bushfire or merely to
dig his backyard garden.
Between the wars our civvy hats did
not quite reach this level, but they were
pretty good. The tense, stomach-
ulcerous, fingernail-chewing types wore
their felts crushed into incredible patterns
of creases, the dashing lads had ones with
brims that soared steeply skyward at the
back and were twisted down almost to
their chins in front; and for the opulent
there were rich creations that carried a
fleece like a prize Merino. The philo-
sophical, the orderly-minded, the degene-
rate, the pugnacious, the optimistic and
the pessimistic could all buy hats that
would soon announce their characters to
the world —or even, perhaps, conceal
them, if cunningly chosen.
We made our mistakes, of course, and
in late adolescence I, for one, had a lid
which was then the pride of my life, but
which I now realise was hardly suitable.
Probably urged on by subconscious
memories of Dad’s swaggering Wood-
rows, I bought a great, black near-
sombrero more or less of the kind G. K.
Chesterton used to wear. Such an adorn-
ment was noble crowning the vast, self-
assured bulk of Chesterton, but I’m
afraid it only made me look like a skinny,
shifty and obviously depraved priest of
some sort,
I had more success with tweed caps,
which were then worn in assorted
patterns, in various shapes, and at indi-
vidual angles by anybody who fancied
them, and not merely by motorcyclists,
newly-landed immigrants and elderly
gentlemen of English birth and obstinate
dislike of sartorial change.
Probably what we need to restore
some personality to our hats is a national
leader who is cady-conscious, and such is
sadly lacking at the moment. Prime
Minister Menzies, for instance, hats him-
self respectably but without enthusiasm
or inspiration, and Opposition-leader
Evatt has the appearance of being slightly
ashamed of his headgear, and, in some
moods, of disliking it as intensely as he
does his necktie. I hold it in Evatt’s
favor that when he was Minister for Ex-
ternal Affairs the belief was held in his
Department that he frowned upon Hom-
burgs, and consequently Australian
diplomats were only game to wear these
when on the most secret missions.
To me, the Homburg seems to express
nothing and indicate nothing but a
tendency towards pompousness, or the
possession of a domineering wife. Per-
haps this is because the style makes me
look like an obviously dishonest second-
hand-clothes dealer, and seems to suit
most of my friends about as well. Not
so long ago one pal who had succumbed
to Homburgs came back from overseas
with one, and, since it had a brim about
an inch wide and he has a jovial pudding
face, he never looked as if he were going
anywhere except to a fancy-dress ball.
Then another mate, a fellow with a small,
lean-cheeked dial, appeared in a Hom-
burg apparently designed by Tom Mix.
When one had peered under the enormous
hat for long enough to discover this man
at all, he looked like an absconding faith-
healer.
After these experiences I thought I
knew the worst about Homburgs, and I
cherished the belief until ex-Sydney editor
Thomas Dunbabin came home from years
of Government Press work in Ottawa,
London and New York.
Dunbabin, a man who had always
seemed to take no interest in clothes as
long as he possessed a sufficient number
of suits of sturdy broadcloth —which he
wore, waistcoats and all, whether the
temperature was 10 degrees or 110 —had
the most amazing Homburg I have ever
seen. Its shape was as symmetrical as
that of a Homburg can ever be, but its
fit was such that when he put it on even
his large and erudite dome it seemed to
engulf firstly his whole forehead, then his
eyebrows, then his top eyelids, and finally
all but the bottom halves of his eyeballs.
It gave the scholarly and level-eyed
Tasmanian the aspect of a lesser Pata-
gonian horse-thief, and I hope it blew
overboard from the ship when he was on
his way back to Canada,
Among the signs of at least some small
present revolt against our uninspiring hats
is an activity among the younger hat-
wearers in hammering the crowns right
down into truly circular pork-pie form,
with a deep gutter or moat which catches
much water when it rains. But such flat
hats as these, while all right for law-
students and journalistic cadets, give most
older men a look of leering frivolity
irritating to their wives and not calculated
to inspire respect and trust in senior busi-
ness circles.
Really rakish characters can, and do,
nowadays buy cloth hats which change
shape every time they are put on, and
which one needs a very versatile and
adaptable character to keep up with. The
beret pops up occasionally, but seems to
go better with a sharply-pointed beard
than over the average Australian face.
In the meantime, while the hatters be-
moan the falling-off in their trade, more
and more wear hats only when it rains,
or to pull down over their faces when
committing particularly daring burglaries.
The flat, wide-brimmed hats some
sheepmen affect probably represent an
effort to get back to cavalier and cow-
boy magnificence on the upper story, but
they also have gone wrong somewhere.
Cynical city types sneer that the flatter
the hat and the wider its brim the fewer
sheep the wearer is likely to own, and
whether or not there is any truth in this
the great disks of felt all look pretty
much the same and are just a sort of
label of a class, not an expression of
individuality. They cannot, like the old
“Stand Up and End You”
by Oliver Filter
After killing his wife’s lover, a
miner seeks sanctuary in the mine,
carrying with him gelignite and fuses.
One of next week's Bulletin stories•
goldfields Woodrows, be moulded so
well to match the man that you’d recog-
nise the lid if you saw it lying in the
gutter three years after the man who had
educated it had gone to New Zealand.
They would look better on the sheep than
on the sheepfarmers.
All in all, with the position as it is, I
have no sympathy with the complaining
hatters. They moan dismally, but what
do they do about it?
The most they seem to be able to
think of is to have cloth-bound edges
on the brims for a year or two, and then
to change to unbound brims for a while.
The crowns look unnatural and depraved
in any shape but that into which the
shopman fingers them as soon as he makes
the sale, and, except for the squattocracy
and a few defiant nonconformists, up a
bit at the back and down a bit at the
front is the unvarying rule.
What the trade should do is flood
the market with hats of every style—
narrow-brimmed, cheeky ones; high-
crowned, lofty ones; sober, parsonical
ones ; sweeping, piratical ones ;.and every
other kind that would suit any face or
any temperament.
if they did this we would soon be a
hatted nation once more, and beneath
the felt twisted and battered into the
shape of all our hopes and our estima-
tions of ourselves I’m sure we would all
feel a lot better.
On Having Your Photo Taken
IF, as is often claimed, the cameraj
does not lie, then I may as well be
reconciled to the inexorable fact]
judging by the various things myj
face does to the lens, that I may be;
classed as a physiognomical mixture 1
of Boris Karloff, the Neanderthal
Man, Anna Pauker arid something
that looks up at you, startled, when
you roll away a wet stone.
Going to a wedding-reception
used to be a reasonably pleasant
social occasion. True, one couldn’t
hope to eat and drink as much as one
outlaid on the wedding-present, but
there were compensations.
Then vested interests saw the possi-
bilities of the roving camera at those
functions and messed up the whole
business. ,
In the old days, when everybody
was admiring the bride and the
supernumerary in the white gloves
was just hovering near by, one could
lounge comfortably in a chair, half
full of sherry, drowsily listening to
Aunt Martha drooling on about her
gall-bladder, or old Uncle Claude
talking about how he once nearly got
Alec Bannerman with a yorker at a
school match, and if he’d only taken
up cricket in earnest instead of join-
ing the Botany Harriers he’d have
probably played against Doc. Grace.
Now what happens? Every few
minutes some idiot hauls you off to
join two or three other silently-
cursing victims, and you are parked
in front of a lamp which appears to
be about 200,000 watts, designed less
to light you up than to fry you.
By the time the group is composed
to the photographer’s satisfaction you
are starting to blink like a lay-
preacher who suddenly comes across
a blonde wearing a Bikini swim-suit,
and feel as if your face had just
been sprayed with oil —and that’s
exactly how the print comes out!
I estimate that at an average wed-
ding I am hustled up to the torture-
corner 17 times, and the resultant
crop of photographic horrors would
cause a Prussian field-marshal to leap
a couple of feet with fright were he
to be suddenly awakened in the night
and shown them.
Sometimes they use a flash-bulb
camera, with the result that I look as
if I’ve just come out of a deep sleep
and seen a maniac standing at the
foot of the bed wielding a meat-
chopper.
On one occasion the wife foolishly
sent one of those photos of me, taken
at a ball, to an elderly relative. They
had to put the dear old soul in an
iron-lung for shock, and when she
eventually recovered she wrote
strongly advising Agapanthus to take
me to ri specialist at once, as she was
sure the staring eyes were symptoms
of a large internal goitre.
The last time I went abroad and
had a passport-photo taken the
official to whom I showed it took a
lot of convincing that I hadn’t got
my photo mixed up with that of the
Pin-headed Chow who at the time
was a sideshow exhibit at the big
Easter Show.
With the pestiferous street-
photographer it is comparatively
easy to deal. He having virtually
bullied me into standing and gaping
foolishly and self-consciously into
his lens and handed me a card with
the oleaginous intimation that it will
cost me three-bob iri advance, I take
great satisfaction in rejoining ;
“Well, that three-bob and the three
y OU don’t get makes six—buy your-
self a drink.”
And j d the d iece o{
cardboa rd at his feet and msve off.
By the foregoing, then, it might
have been expected that I would
have risen in revolt when Agapanthus
suggested we take advantage of a
generous offer of 40 p.c. discount on
a photographic portrait made by a
travelling agent of a city firm. As
she said, we hadn’t had a photo taken
together that is, a big photo since
our wedding. I consented, but only
because I was determined to teach
these friends a well-deserved lesson,
I would supplement the fell work of
the camera with suitable contortions,
and when they presented us with the
finished apparition I would refuse to
I?ay for it.
Came the “sitting.” The photo-
grapher, a pansy-looking fellow with
a mincing camera-side manner,
fussed around, “setting” me, adjust-
ing a chin-angle and at times almost
with tears in his voice adjuring me
not to look at the camera as if it was
a tiger about to spring,
At last he appeared as satisfied.
“Now,” he said, “when I get to
three just hold that natural smile
and look at my left hand...
“One. Two.”
. * ,• „ •
At the instant ot his saying
„_, , A °
. Three I poked my tongue hard
mto W n § ht cheek so as to B iVe A
appearance of a huge gumboil,
anc * at tke ® an ] e rime gave a look
such as Macbeth must have worn as
his bloodthirsty missus thrust the
mto his hand and ordered him
*° S om g.
I forgot about the whole thing until
several weeks later when Agapanthus
bit me for a few extra quid,
“What for?” I demanded,
“You remember that photo we
sat for, dear?” she said. “I’m order-
ing °ne. I’ve seen the proofs. They’re
splendid. It’s the best one you’ve
ever had taken! ”
Bo.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 21,1953
Vol. 74—No, 3806
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
READ ’P?one IC BO 5971. Sydney: B ° X 2521!
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Penh.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
TAX-RELIEF
Matters due to come up for consideration in the
Federal session opening on February 22 are the
-~nking legislation and reduction of taxation. On
both of these, sections of back-benchers hold very
strong views, and the position is complicated by the
powerful sense of self-preservation which dominates
the outlook of some Senators. The Government will
meet insistent demands for an immediate programme
likely to win elections, of which some of the
ingredients will be reasonable, but some scarcely more
moral than the proposals of Dr. Evatt and his office-
hunting colleagues.
The banking policy of the Government calls for
consideration, especially in view of the determination
of “Labor” to revive the proposals of 1947 for bank-
nationalisation in another form and with intent to
defeat the Constitution. Nobody is quite satisfied with
the original proposals put forward last year, and there
seems little reason why a Government wedded to free
enterprise should continue to give the Commonwealth
Bank advantages over private banks in ordinary bank-
ing or should hesitate to separate the trading depart
ment from the centrals bank. The bank is obviously
an interested party in the determination of private
financial policy while it is constituted as it is at present,
or as it will be under the Menzies Government’s pro-
posals. A financial advisory panel on which
the trading banks as well as the Commonwealth Bank
have representation would seem a logical development.
On the question of taxation, despite mistakes and
sometimes an inability to explain the main issues
clearly, Treasurer Fadden’s statement takes the only
line which can be expected from a Government that
has refused to be shaken from a financial policy which
is working out. As he points out, wholesale
demands for tax-reduction at this stage amount to
demands for reduction in expenditure on defence and
social services, not to mention the “works” programme
which “Labor” Premiers find so necessary in order to
hold borderline seats.
Taxation policy—whether “uniform” and formu-
lated by the Commonwealth on behalf of all taxing
authorities, or by the Commonwealth and the States
separately—can never be stable until, as Fadden says,
works can be wholly financed from loan money. This
point cannot be reached until somebody succeeds in
instilling into “Labor” Treasurers some of the more
rudimentary principles which govern the laws of
solvency.
The Commonwealth is in a fine quandary about
them, as every Government which succeeds the present
one must be. It is difficult to see how the Federal
system of Government can be maintained if the taxing
power continues to reside by agreement for any length
of time in the hands of the Canberra authorities —
“Labor” especially being bent on unification —and it
is equally difficult to see how the Constitution can
survive if taxing-power goes back to the States, as it
seems now that it inevitably will.
The main policy of “Labor” is socialisation, and
taxation provides it with the only real machinery avail-
able for its purpose. With a “Labor” Government in
office in Canberra all “Labor”-ruled States follow a
concerted policy to undermine private enterprise by
soaking business and providing Socialist competition.
With Federal “Labor” out of office they are at one in
hampering a Federal free-enterprise policy. There are
excuses to be had in the “need for public works,
especially hospitals and schools for the workers’
children” —built, of course, with Socialistic lavishness
as to wages and the leisure of the worker
and supplemented by the equally lavish roster
of strikes. The normal “social” handouts grow along
with the civil service ujnder “Labor,” whose policy it
is ultimately to turn the population into a vast civil
service, ruled by its own juntas.
There is strong and continuous criticism of the
rising taxation per head in the country, which last year
was bumping against the £ 1000-million-mark, or an
average of £ll6 a head on every individual. Yet
nobody ever seems moved to lay the blame on the
real culprits. The tasks of every non-“ Labor” Govern-
ment in the next generation or so will be to shake off
some of the burden thrown on the community by
“Labor” policy, which is mainly responsible for the
present condition of affairs, now aggravated by an
inflation which many Leftist “Labor” men would
secretly like to see increase to a point at which it
would cause the collapse of both the free-enterprise
and the Parliamentary systems.
The Government is forced for the present to take
what it calls a “midway path.” It has an extremely
"LABOR'S" PROMISED LAND
difficult and sensitive situation on its hands, one in
which a false move would start inflation all over again.
All it can do in the way of tax-relief, without
damaging the economy of the Commonwealth, is to
give the taxpayers what benefit it can from the
buoyancy in collections created by a bumper season
and a bumper wool-market. This it should do in a
way to encourage thrift and a greater investment in
capital assets. It goes without saying that in its own
political interests it will do this at the earliest moment
which it considers it safe to act.
The Awful Example
This week opens what should be a grand inquisition
by N.S.W- electors into the mess made of their State’s
finances and general administration by the collection
of incompetents who have ruled over these affairs for
12 years under McKell, McGirr and Cahill in turn.
There have been extraordinary changes of Mr
Cahill’s mind on what “Labor” leaders have been
voicing as their policy during the past eight months
or more. The sheer fustian of this propaganda was
lately demonstrated by the gagging of the party’s
Federal leader until the Federal A.L.P. conference in
Adelaide (also staged this week) shall have refurbished
it, and by Mr. Cahill’s insistence on giving his “policy”
before hearing from the Canberra conference the hard
financial facts to which he must conform.
In the shilly-shallying over the political aspects of
his Government’s bankrupt condition two events have
had some influence. The late A.L.P. boss in N.S.W.,
who made ex-Premier McGirr eat dirt more than once,
is no longer there to try the iron-handed stuff on a
Cahill, for Mr. “Jacky” Ferguson had read the get-out
signs in good time, and as president of the Milk Board
has been trying to restore confidence in the dairymen
whose farms Mr. McGirr threatened to confiscate
This mental aberration in the late Premier was judged
by the inner soviet of the party to be no less serious
than the brick dropped by N Mr. Ferguson himself,
who in an address to the Fabian Society just as the
Evatt-Calwell-Cahill campaign for a fresh boost to
inflation was warming up declared:
In certain States the “Labor” party is not the
movement we were taught to respect but a combina-
tion of individuals burlesquing under the title of
“Labor,” using it to achieve their own ambitions and
their own narrow ends. If by some accident “Labor”
became the Federal Government overnight it would
be obliged to do much of what the Menzies-Fadden
Government has done.
Of more pressing concern was the Federal Govern-
ment’s intimation, in retort to Mr. Cahill’s threats to
spend more than ever, that next year he should have
the pleasure (if he survives the elections) of collecting
his own income tax.
Before the Ferguson executive in N.S.W. got its
quietus at the hands of the Dougherty section it issued
a ukase on the party’s electioneering programme which
prescribed, among other “points,” the enforcement of
the “correct” use of rural lands, and an excess-profits
tax on top of all others borne by what they elsewhere
describe as overtaxed industry. Dr. Evatt was beefing
about compulsory “unlocking of the lands” up to mid-
November last, heedless of the truth that in N.S.W.
only Mr. Cahill could unlock them.
On any such stunt Mr. Cahill may propose this
week he will be a brave man indeed should he venture
into the districts where his Government, alone among
the Governments of Australia, has forced resumption
of farmlands at unjust prices. Federal Minister
Anthony thus described the Cahill Government's
resumption system, of which many individual cases
have been cited at length in The Bulletin;
Ministers in Sydney first clap a proclamation over
a man’s land which prohibits its sale to anyone
else. Then they write him a letter saying “If you
like to go along quietly we will pay you 1942 values,
plus 15 per cent. If you contest this then we will
withdraw the 13 per cent, and resume on February,
1942, values. If we do not receive a reply accepting
within 14 days we will proceed on the 1942-valuation
basis.”
If that is not blackmail I do not know what is.
It is only in N.S.W. that this half-Communistic tech-
nique is being applied. These methods of resuming
land have no parallel in any other British com-
munity.
And while Mr. Cahill’s legal advisers drew his
regulations applying this practice, his own Solicitor-
General was a member of a special committee which
unanimously recommended that the Commonwealth
Government should enact a measure to make financial
aid to the States for soldier-settlement conditional on
approval of terms acceptable to the Commonwealth
Minister —this in order to establish in New South
Wales just terms of compensation.
The coal which the Chifley Government could not
get the Menzies Government has produced, and though
N.S.W.’s power-stations are overwhelmed with coal
there are still electricity blackouts. The bankrupted
railway and road-transport systems have been handed
over to union control —as witness the unions’ reversal
of Government retrenchment orders—and the unions
are the only visible beneficiaries of those chief spending
instrumentalities in the State Budget. For their further
security the road-hauliers’ enterprise, taxed to the
limits to support the railways, is on the verge of being
run out of business. The Cahill Government’s housing
record is the worst of all States ; in the latest recorded
year (1951-52) 62 houses per 10,000 of the population
was all that N.S.W. could set against an average of
95 for the rest of Australia. Building costs and all
other costs of living and working have after 12 years
of “Labor” made Sydney the most expensive domicile
in Australia except remote Geraldton, which it runs
hard for first-place.
The liquor scandals, police scandals, local-
government scandals, “foreign-orders” scandals in Gov-
ernment workshops are the more overt signs of coi-
ruption of administrative morale and integrity under
“Labor,’ the grand continuing hangover from black-
marketing and privileged chiselling under “Labor’s’’
war-time “controls,” especially that of “price-fixing.”
The loss of a million pounds in the farmed-out Black-
town State tileworks is but a close-up example of an
unregulated, irresponsible waste of a couple of hundred
times as much loan money in recent years on “develop-
ment works” represented only by foundation-stones
and first-sods and a few part-finished dams.
And the Cahills still have the hide to say that
Canberra has denied them money to spend!


PLAIN ENGLISH
Truman's Home-truths
Whatever else may be said of President
Truman’s record, his parting words might
get some attention from the world at
large and particularly from those Aus-
tralians who are coming to think that on
Doomsday their history, save for the first
150 years of “Tory” Government, may
well be summed up in the words: “A
good time was always had by all.”
Mr. Truman, in his final message to
Congress, said that the future might hold
more serious tests of America’s ability to
avoid depression than those which have
occurred since World War 11. He added
that “the cost of another depression
would not stop at our own borders,” and
that the “strength and stability of the
whole free world depend on the avoid-
ance of economic collapse in this
country.” The world knows this all too
well from the experience of 1929, as it
also knows how suddenly such disasters
can develop almost out of the blue. S. ML
Bruce, who had been talking for two
years before 1929 very much as President
Truman i§ talking, was laughlfo to scorn.
As the President declared, “While the
current defence programme is at its peak
the new problem of America’s role in
world economy presses for solution,” But
perhaps not in the manner in which he
appears to view its trends. In this country
and in other English-speaking countries
what is most needed is the realisation that
much of the present apparent “prosperity”
is due to the existence of huge world-
wide defence programmes carried out,
especially in the United States, cost
regardless. The world, in fact, is going
through the period of lax effort normal
in post-war years throughout the centuries
with the stimulus of a lavish —and neces-
sary—war-time economy, in which the
time element is more important than cost.
The sudden collapse of Russia, so much
canvassed by almost every daily-
newspaper editor at the moment, would
shock the easygoing, hothouse economies
of the world today. It would deflate the
temporary Iworld demand for defence
materials with a sudden bang and leave
huge industries flatfooted and immobile
until reorganisation could take place.
The changeover to peace-time produc-
tion, though fundamentally a most desir-
able thing, would be full of transition
problems, especially for those Govern-
ments and political parties which rely on
the “economics of scarcity” as the basis
of their full-employment policies. Real
“peace-time plenty” calls for sounder
econopiic management (and more
universal diligent work) than any Western
country-has exhibited in post-war years.
Moscow Repeats Itself
“Ek Bum’s” summary:
It was here written at the beginning of
October last that the reorganisation of the
rules of the Communist party of Russia pointed
to the imminence of a new wholesale purge.
This prophecy has been coming true for some
time, not only in Russia but in other Com-
munised or Communist-infiltrated countries. It
had actually got under way, before the con-
ference was held, in Eastern Europe, particularly
in Rumania and Czechoslovakia. It has
since been extended to Poland, Hungary, the
Baltic countries brutally occupied in 1939 and
among the officialdom of the Communist parties
throughout the world. Even Australia has been
suffering. Unobtrusively there has been a
“cleansing,” particularly in Victoria, where
several people whose names were prominently
before the royal commission were dealt with,
particularly one who was largely instrumental
in bringing Cecil Sharpley into the party. A
recent symposium issued by the Polxtbureau
suggests - further revisions of leadership.
In Russia the purge has been going on
underground for some time, as anybody who
has noticed the change of personalities in certain
fields has been aware. The changes in organi-
sation developed at the October conference have
been useful in cloaking these removals, by what-
ever means they have been achieved. There is
nothing original about them. They follow
closely the pattern of the purge of 1938. Then
various leaders, military, political, diplomatic
and medical, were wiped out, some without
trials; they included Marshal Tuchachevsky and
his right-hand man. Some were given a very
public trial as “Rightists” and “Trotskyites” m
March, 1938. .
While the wretches who are now being
blotted out are being accused, years after the
event, of the murder of Zhdanov, Stalin’s right-
hand man and potential successor, those purged
in 1938 were accused, among a flood of hideous
crimes, of having murdered the earlier palace
favorites, Kirov and Kuibyshev, and Gorki,
the novelist, presumably chosen to be mur-
dered because his name was well known in litera-
ture throughout the world, and his son.
The accused in the 1938 trials included such
stalwarts as Bukharin, Rakovsky, Rykov,
Yagoda (head of the Ogpu), Kvestinsky (Ambas-
sador to Germany), Rosengolz and, of course, a
few doctors who were necessary to link the
rest with the villainy charged against them by the
court stage-manager, Vyshinsky. Bits of delec-
table testimony studding the official report are
quite in line with the confessions now being
put forward:
Professor Pletnev, Hr. levin and Gorki’s
secretary, Kryuchkov, took a direct part
in the killing of A. M. Gorki. I, for in-
stance, personally witnessed how Yagoda
frequently summoned Kryuchkov and ad-
vised him to cause Gorki to catch a chill
to make him fail ill in on© way and an-
other. Yagoda stressed the point that the
conditions of Gorki’s lungs was such that
any illness caused by a cold would in-
crease the chances of his death. The rest
was done by Dr. Kevin and Professor Plet-
nev and Vinogradov who treated him in
such a way when he contracted double-
pneumonia as to cause his death.
Seeing that he was over 80 it should have been
easy.
The main feature about the purge from the
Western point of view is that such events have
always had a world import. They usually follow
the rise of a new favorite, Khrushchev, now
General Secretary, and precede world events of
importance. They are linked this time with the
issue of a change of line in Communist propa-
ganda for world revolution, the essence of
which is contained in a pamphlet The Collabora-
tion of Nations in the U.S.S.R. The direction
of events suggests that an absorption of all
Iron Curtain countries directly into the Soviet
Union is in contemplation. Whether it can be
achieved is another matter. And the inclusion
of the Jews in the purge augurs perhaps a
serious attempt to take control of the Near-
Eastern situation by becoming the champion of
the Arab countries against Israel. The anti-
British feeling in Persia and Egypt probably en-
courages Moscow in this ambition. Apart
from the fact that its leaders have always
coveted the Eastern Mediterranean and the Dar-
danelles with their oil and sea outlets as the
first area to be attained as a preliminary to
imperialist expansion. The thought is never
absent from Moscow’s mind: “What couldn’t
we do with Africa and its huge potential slave
labor?”
Cahill's Double-talk
Extraordinary changes of wind in the
sails of “Labor” financial policy in N.S.W.
as recorded by Premier Cahill in public
statements since the Ashfield by-election:
Just after the Ashfield by-election
(June 29, 1952):
The electors supported the State Gov-
ernment’g full works programme. The
Commonwealth must have regard for • this
backing. The £53 miUion for N.S.W.
works (out of £lBO million for all States)
this year, which is all the Commonwealth
agree to support at the last Loan Council,
is not enough to carry out the works the
people demand. If the Commonwealth
won’t listen we shall have to consider
holding an election before the normal
effluxion of Parliament to let the voice of
the whole State be heard on the issue....
We need a minimum of £247J million for
all States, with £B2J million for N.S.W.
A week later, at Loan Council meet-
ing (July 7):
I know the Commonwealth has to bear
the brunt of raising taxation revenue and
that there is strong pressure for reduced
income tax. I know also that the taxable
capacity of Australia may not be any
greater than it was last year. But the
Commonwealth has a strong moral obliga-
tion to ensure the States’ financial stability.
... .Because income-tax and other revenues
may be reduced it does not follow that ex-
penditure by Governments should be re-
duced We cannot afford to reduce
transport services. We cannot reduce ex-
penditure on them proportionate to fall
in receipts.
Four days later (July 11), back from
Loan Council meeting, at which Com-
monwealth Government refused to budge
and refused also to continue raising in-
come-tax for the States after the close of
the financial year:
I see no reason why return of taxing
rights to the States should mean increased
taxation if the States are treated
genuinely and N.S.W. could receive twice
as much out of every pound of taxation
raised in N.S.W
While we have to cut many works and
go slow on others N.S.W. is more for-
tunately situated than some other States.
. We are not going to squeal. Following
the Canberra decisions it is our duty to
fall into line Before we think of elec-
tions it is our duty to examine closely
and fully test the newly-created position.
We will do the right thing. We shall
try, and try very hard, to make- ends
meet.... Cabinet is not considering holding
an early State general election.
Three and a half months later, in Legis-
lative Assembly (Oct. 29, 1952) debate
on his orders to Transport Department
chiefs to reduce surplus hands and cut
some of their services:
The stag© has been reached when the
community as a whole, through the Gov-
ernment, can no longer afford to subsidise
late night-transport. Commonsense dic-
tates that while we have responsibility
for the moneys of the State we cannot
afford to run services if we cannot afford
to pay for them
Two and a half months later (Jan. 12,
1953), referring to coming Premiers’ Con-
ference in February:
I believe the people of Australia do not
want seven taxing authorities with the re-
turn of State income-taxing powers. State
and Federal Treasury officers have been
working on the proposed return for some
months but there is no indication when
this report is likely to be available to me.
Next day (January 13):
N.S.W. will agree to the return of taxing
powers. I feel certain the States will get
back more than they are getting now,
and that the combined Commonwealth and
State taxes will not be as great as they
are today.
He has now said that he cannot do on
less than double present taxation receipts,
and that when he imposes his own taxes
total taxation will not be as heavy ; that
he can’t do on less than £B2| million
for loan-works, and that he will do the
right thing and subsist on £53 million;
that he cannot reduce his transport ex-
penditure, and that “we cannot run ser-
vices if we cannot afford to pay for
them.”
This is the Premier who complained
that the Prime Minister when overseas
had not tried to persuade America to lend
money for N.S.W. Government power-
projects ! _
The Albury Candidate
In a sort of parting gesture as N.S.W.
Prices Minister (he lost his Darlinghurst
seat by redistribution and is to woo
Albury on February 14), Mr. Finnan
“fixed” the price of “fancy bread in
N. S. Wales—whether at the dictate of
the Doughpunchers’ Union or the master-
bakers, or both, isn’t clear. Or it may
have been merely on the word of some
busybody in the Prices Office. In any
case, it was a prime example of un-
warranted interference.
This fancy bread, largely made by
newcomers to Australia, goes by the name
of Vienna-roll, French-roll, poppy-loaf
and one or two others. A little dearer
than ordinary bakers’ bread, it became
so popular in Sydney (at least) that many
of the shops which sold it couldn’t satisfy
the demand, and you could see long
queues of people waiting to buy it.
It was popular because it was tasty,
easy on the digestion and there was no
waste. Because it was “fancy bread
its baking wasn’t restricted by the “Labor”
baking law which stops the production
of fresh bread for the weekend
results in practically every garbage-tin in
the State carrying up to a whole loaf of
brick-hard bread every Monday. House-
wives losing shillings a week on ordinary
bread through waste were glad to
pay an extra penny a loaf for bread
that could be eaten to the last crumb.
But that didn’t suit Mr. Finnan and
his mob. So he fixed the “fancy-bread”
price at Id. or 2d. a loaf below what it
was selling at. This, of course, was the
retailer’s margin of profit, and the result
has been that some “fancy-bread”-makers
have had to give up, while others work
a blackmarket in the stuff.
The point is that nobody was com-
pelled to buy this bread. Those who
bought it did so voluntarily. That so
many saw it as both a saving and an
escape from the “Labor” bread-zoning
system mean nothing to the man who
wants Albury to elect him to the State
Parliament. If Albury can’t see in his
final act as a “Labor” Minister the kind
of thing it can expect under “Labor” it
ought to jump in the Murray.
TV's Approach
In the early ’thirties,- when E. T. Fisk
said that Australia could not expect to
see television for five years, he was
accounted a pessimist.
Now the Commonwealth Government
still balks at the responsibility of estab-
lishing it. It has decided to appoint a
royal commission—a step which usually
shelves any project for years, since every-
body normally disagrees with every find-
ing by experts.
Mr, Menzies says that TV will be
introduced on a “gradual basis,” and that
the commission will decide on the various
stages of development and the licensing
of commercial stations.
To leave the question of private de-
velopment open the Government will
repeal the law that prohibits exploitation
by private persons. It is proposed to put
the matter on the same basis as ordinary
broadcasting in that it will become a field
both for Government and commercial
stations.
At the present stage its short range will
make it almost exclusively a privilege for
the cities, and one which many people
who have watched the effect of it on
American culture, in particular, would
like to see deferred till the millennium.
This is leaving it aside that, as Mr.
Menzies, puts it, “the financial implica-
tions, both for the Budget and for private
citizens, generally require close examina-
tion.”
They certainly do, for costs are
enormous, especially when considered in
the light of the fact that only a huddled
section of the community can benefit,
and that many of those will prefer not
to risk the agony of seeing as well as
hearing some of the people who shriek
into the microphones over our too-
numerous stations and networks.
TV must inevitably come, but it should
not come until there is a carefully settled
policy—which should have been thought
out long ago and not left for consideration
till the last moment.
Terrors of the Might
Once again Sydney has had another close
shave, a wild animal which invaded an
inner suburb having been run down and
captured by police and Press, the gallant
Pressman getting himself bitten in th
process. ine
A North Sydney resident sighted th*
beast just after 9 p.m., hastened inside
and, after presumably barring the doors
putting the kids under the bed and gettine
the axe, telephoned the police. Accorn
panied by the Press the police, suitably
armed, set out. The animal was located
and a “two-mile chase” followed
Emboldened by the presence of the
law, a crowd of civilians joined in the
hunt, and, fittingly enough, a reporter
was first to get a hand on the quarry
which promptly bit him on an elbow
The thing was quickly lied and hurried to
Taronga Zoo. In the midst of the excite-
ment a little girl swallowed a screw. Then
the pet wallaby’s owner turned un and
claimed it. P
This is the second episode of the kind
within the past two or three years. The
first was when a ferocious man-eating
possum came in from the wilds of Hyde
Park one night and threw all Elizabeth-
street into turmoil. Men ran and women
screamed, the inevitable reporter (maybe
the same one) turned up, the marauding
animal was cornered in a doorway but
got clear and—as near as can be re-
membered —escaped in the darkness.
This sort of thing is a reflection on
the Government. A city the size of
Sydney should be protected against these
raids by wild animals. It is indeed
fortunate that beyond the swallowed
screw and the bitten elbow no more
serious casualties resulted. What on earth
will happen if an echidna or a goanna,
or even a bunyip, should get in makes
the imaginative turn pale. There ought
to be an Act making it compulsory for
all wandering wallabies and other night-
prowling creatures of the bush to obtain
a permit before entering the city, with
heavy fines for failure to do so.
An Answer in Advance
Queenslanders heard something about
the wealth and progress of their State
the other day from L. I. McCray, presi-
dent of the Chamber of Manufactures
there. As he sees it, Queensland will
soon be “challenging the industrial
strength of the south.”
Mr. McCray based his optimism on the
fact that “at least six major industrial
undertakings” will begin production this
year, their total cost of establishment be-
ing about £5 million. They are: Mt. Isa
Mines’ new copper-smelters (£2,000,000);
Queensland Cement’s new Darra plant
(£750,000); North Australian Cement’s
Townsville plant (£750,000); Queensland
Glass Co.’s new bottle factory; and two
new powdered-milk plants at South Bris-
bane and Gympie.
Since 1939 the gross value of the indus-
trial output has risen from £69 million to
£216 million. There are nearly 1700 more
factories, and the number of factory em-
ployees has risen by 71 p.c.
All very cheering and good to know.
And what Queenslanders ought to do is
note-down the figures, or at least
memorise them. Because very shortly
now they’ll be invaded by Dr. Evatt and
sundry of his colleagues from Canberra,
all bent on convincing them that ruin
threatens and depression waits to engulf
them under the Menzies Government—
unless they vote for Evatt candidates in
the forthcoming Senate election.
An Example Ignored.
“J.C.”: 'When Broken Hill’s first
settlers arrived about 1860 the surround-
ings were sparsely clothed with mulga,
mallee, hop-bush, casuarinas and calli-
tris. However, this scrub kept the sand
down.
But with the humans came goats, cows,
horses, camels and sheep, which pounded
up the light soil as they ate out the scrub.
Sand-drift set in. Sand stretched for
miles without a break of green, piled high
against fences, blew down the streets,
invaded homes. With an average annual
rainfall of lOin. and burning summers,
“The Hill” seemed destined to eternal
sand.
Then arose a certain Albert Morris,
who preached a doctrine which involved
fencing off an area a mile wide around
the town, planting it with native scrub
and anything else that would grow and
keeping stock —and men —off it.
In 1937 the three mining companies
handed Morris the regeneration job.
Under his supervision nine reserves were
fenced off to form a horseshoe-shaped
belt enclosing about square miles. At
a then cost of £l2O per square mile the
green belt was established.
By 1939 native plants within the re-
serves included mulgas 2ft. to 3ft. high,
and plants not seen for years. Thousands
(i Continued on page 7)


of cassias were blooming; red Sturt-pea
flowered in places where its seed had not
germinated for 40 years. Grasses re-
appeared as thick as standing crops. The
reserves showed a natural increase of
from three to 61 species of plants.
Morris died in 1938, but his memorial
surrounds Broken Hill. The once sand-
blasted city is now protected from the
winds, and life there is immeasurably
sweeter. There are numerous other
towns in Australia at the mercy of dust
and wind, where the summer is a time
of tribulation. What Morris did for
Broken Hill can be done for them —if
they’ve the will to do it.
POLITICAL POINTS
General Naguib, in Egypt, has now
been measured up against events of the
past six months, and he is plainly not of
the stature of Kemal Ataturk, in Turkey,
of a generation ago. If the Gyppo Army
had been anything like the Turks—even
the defeated Turks of World War I
Naguib might have pulled fewer of his
punches.
Naguib said he had abolished the
political parties. But he did not, and now
essays to abolish them all over again.
Kemal had just as stiff a job in abolish-
ing the Caliphate, but he did it. He
made the British the focal-point of his
propaganda on the Dardanelles in 1922
just as Naguib does now on the Canal.
The test Kemal passed successfully and
Naguib has not yet passed is that of
knowing when to stop.
Naguib’s trouble is that his army is as
corrupted with politics as everything else
in Egypt. Also he has nowhere to go
with it.. Farouk tried Israel as a target
and fell down badly. If Naguib tried
the Sudan it would be the end of him.
Probably Farouk hopes
he will try the Sudan.
Kemal, too, played
ball with Soviet Russia
while he was consolid-
ating his position. But
it was a weaker Mos-
cow then, and that
example is one Naguib
hardly dare follow,
even if his inclinations
that way were stronger
than they seem to be.
His policy is to come
to terms with Britain,
and there he looked
like succeeding till a
few weeks ago his army
malcontents rubbed old
sores again.
© •
Under the P.R.
system of voting, now
grafted on to the
Senate Constitution, the
death of an old Senator
—or a young one, either
—can change or block
the Government of
Australia, and that not
merely in a freak
emergency, but as a
regular thing. When
Senator John Chamber-
lain, of Tasmania, died
on Friday it meant that
not five, but six, Senate
seats out of Tassie’s
in Queensland. Work began 37 years
ago on a new railway-station for Ipswich.
The last time any activity was noted was
around 1930. Ipswich Chamber of Com-
merce will ask the Gairs # to do something
about it this year. All Transport Minister
Duggan would say was that Ipswich has
third priority—Cairns and Rocky are to
get new stations first. Nothing like an
election-year to stir things up.
• •
All these starry-eyed supporters of
railways into the Northern Territory as
a means of saving stock in drought-time
should ponder this; A Winchcombe Car-
son man said that fodder for starving
stock, railed at Gatton (Q.) on December
15, hadn’t arrived at Hughenden by
December 29. Depending on Govern-
ment-run railways in emergency is like
buying lottery-tickets to pay off a
pressing debt. You might win; mostly
you don’t,
• •
Premier Cain has assured Victorians
that his Government “will not hurry into
legislation for a State lottery.” What
Victorians want assuring on is whether
or not he will hurry into the promised
redistribution of seats.
• •
Some of these country papers are re-
freshingly direct. Albury “Border Morn-
STATE
TAXATION
RIGHTS
ten must be contested this year, for
Senator Chamberlain was one of the
group elected in 1951 for six years.
The difference it makes under P.R. is
that the Government party, or any party,
must regard winning four seats out of
six as a hopeless task; therefore three-
three is the outlook. The figures required
to make the Government feel safe were
three-two, which is no longer possible
with six seats instead of five to be filled.
• »
All is not plain sailing for “Labor” in
the Tasmanian Senate election. Senator
Aylett, one of “Labor’s” former team,
lost preselection and is so annoyed that
he’s threatening to stand, as an Indepen-
dent. A drift of “Labor” votes to him
is one spectre haunting the Adelaide
A.L.P. conference.
• •
According to Acting Supply Minister
Beale the Commonwealth Bureau of
Mineral Resources has discovered three
new bauxite fields, 50 million tons of deep
and open-cut coal, and tin ore which may
make Australia independent of imported
tin. He hinted at discoveries of zinc,
uranium and copper. Meantime regular
discoveries of new bodies of public ser-
vants are being made, and it is expected
that sufficient of them will be on hand
to cope with the metal finds.
• •
Sydney Eastern Subbubs railway,
planned in the Year One and being built
by fits and starts ever since, has a parallel
THE TICKING BOMB
ing Mail” reports that a transport-driver
was fined £l5 “for competing with the
railways.” The Transport Strangulation
Department calls it a breach of the Trans-
port Co-ordination Act —or something
like that.
• •
It doesn’t take these “Labor” Ministers
long to begin expressing their Socialist
convictions. Hayes, the Vic. Housing
Minister, discovered that about 3000
people were living under shocking con-
ditions at an “emergency housing” settle-
ment called Camp Pell (it was a former
U.S. Army camp). He first of all said it
would probably remain a permanent blot,
then announced he was calling for
the inevitable report: “As sixty
per cent, are ineligible for a Housing
Commission home I need the report to
decide what shall be done with them.”
Sounds like a man wondering whether
to sell off his stock or let them starve
when the paddock can’t carry them,
• •
N.S.W. Liberals are going for only 55
of the 94 N.S.W. Assembly seats, the
Country party for 23, and “Labor” for
89. “Labor” is leaving Hornsby,
Gordon, Vaucluse, Neutral Bay and
Byron to the Opposition. A ‘'Labor”
walkover in 16 doesn’t say much for
Liberal-C.P. fighting spirit.
_• •
Queensland Premier Gair is facing a
pretty problem. The Commonwealth
Statistician has produced figures which
show that Queensland did so well out of
uniform taxation, that if it wants to
maintain the same revenue by taxing its
own people the end will be Queens-
landers paying far more in combined
taxation than they have been doing under
uniform tax. And, to judge by
N.S.W. Premier Cahill’s worried look,
he’ll be in the same boat as Gair.
• •
“X.S.”: Melbourne Premier Cain
slammed down on the £312,000 State
contribution for the Olympic Games.
The estimated cost of the Olympic
Stadium and other features has risen by
a million. One daily paper suggested
that it would be a good opportunity for
Menzies to make a gesture which
would gain him a lot of votes at the next
election —which shows the depths to which
editorial thinking has sunk. The people
most interested are the sports clubs and
associations, and they could try sending
the hat round to see which is public
spirit and which hot air.
• •
Horse population of Australia (Com-
monwealth Statistician’s figures) has sunk
to 937,000, a drop of nearly 50 per cent,
since 1939, when it was 1,724,000, and
of nearly two-thirds since the peak year,
1918—2,527,000. Horses are dying out
faster than the abos, and at the present
rate they will be museum-pieces by 1972.
The day when even racehorses will be
used as food for “the dogs” may not
come so soon, but seems to be on the
way.
Dairy-cows numbered 3,233,000 in
1939, and only 2,972,000 last year; and
beef cattle at 10,327,000 last year declined
in numbers by about the same percentage.
The pig population, at about 1,000,000,
showed a loss since 1939 of 10 per cent.
Against these figures are the big increases
in politicians and Government employees
—which goes to prove that you can’t
take in each other’s washing and milk
the cow, too.
• a
South Australian Housing Trust is ask-
ing the public to lend it £750,000 for 10
years at 955. per cent. With its record
it ought to get the money almost over-
night. If the N.S.W. Housing Commis-
sion tried anything of the kind it’d be
bombarded with foundation-stones.
• •
There’s a move afoot to amalgamate
the N.S.W. branch of the A.R.U., the
Transport Workers’ Union, and the
trammies and busmen into one big trans-
port union in N.S.W. Apart from other
things it would be interesting to see
A.R.U. men supporting road-transport
workers in urging the Sydney Govern-
ment to free road transport from the re-
strictions and taxes imposed on it to
protect the railwaymen’s jobs.
• •
A man named Frame worked at Port
Kembla (N.S.W.) steelworks 15 years ago.
At that time he was appointed branch
secretary of the Federated Ironworkers,
a full-time job, and left the steelworks.
In November last, following a general
outing of Reds from the Ironworkers, he
lost his secretaryship. He went to the
steelworks for a job and was told he
couldn’t have one because the works
wouldn’t employ known members of the
Communist party. The Ironworkers’
union says it’s “prepared to fight his case
in the courts.” What case?
' • •
Cain hardly found himself Premier of
Victoria when he told the Victorians that
the Government coffers were empty and
that the State might have to shut down
on public works. This is the State’s
reward for government by a Country-
party minority with Cain’s support, but
he didn't tell the electors that.
• •
Astonishing paragraph in a London
message to Brisbane “Courier-Mail” an-
nouncing the imminent return of R. L.
Murray, Queensland Treasury Under-
secretary, from a meeting to wind up the
Peak Downs sorghum farce:
He is known to have reached full agree-
ment with senior British officials on a
formula under which Britain will be re-
imbursed over a period of years for a large
part of its investment of £1,500,000 stg.
Whose baby was it?
• •
On December 12 an electric train broke
down in Sydney’s Wynyard Bridge tunnel
and traffic was delayed for hours. Trans-
port Minister Sheahan said it was because
some railway officials had “failed to take
prompt action.” They’d obviously run
out of forms.
• •
Best thing to come out of the N.S.W.
election so far is an agreement between
Liberal and “Labor” supporters in the St.
George (Sydney) district not to deface
the locality with election-stickers and
whitewash signs.
• •
A Mr. W. Bishop, of West Australia,
told an Australian Teachers’ Federation
conference in Perth the other day that
Australians “spend million on comics
every year,” The amount it costs to
broadcast (he Federal Parliamentary
debates is not included in the sum.
• •
They express themselves drastically in
the S. American republics. In Rio
homing suburbanites, incensed over two-
hour and three-hour delays between
trains, wrecked station facilities and shot-
up a couple of railway officials. Sydney
people are a calmer lot, perhaps because
hold-ups are so common in their city.
And perhaps because they realise that
transport officials, from the Minister
down, are so generally inept and irrespon-
sible that not even a wrecked station
or two would affect their studied com-
placency.
• •
These Government departments skite
about the way they do things. Casey’s
External Affairs, in a “Press release”
about the air-freighting of Zebu
cattle from Pakistan to Port Moresby,
got this in: “The movement of the cattle
involved months of planning.” Seeing
there were a whole 22 head the tax-
payer is probably lucky it didn’t involve
years.
• •
Work is to begin on the longest oil-
pipeline in Australia —40-odd miles from
Corio. near Geelong, to Newport, Mel-
bourne. It will be an Sin. pipe built by
Australians with Australian material and
will pump 300-million gallons of petrol,
fuel and diesel-oil per annum from the
new £lO-million Shell refinery—equivalent
to all the needs of Victoria, Tasmania and
South Australia. The cost will be
£600,000.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS”
“Ceg”: Years ago I acquired a print of
a Streeton painting of Mount Wellington,
and the art-dealer who sold it to me told
an interesting anecdote about some
letters low down in the right-hand corner.
He said that when Streeton had finished
the painting and it was still on the easel
Harold B. Herbert entered the studio, and
was asked his opinion of the work. “I
think it’s fine,” said Herbert. “So much
so that I’ll sign it for you.” With that
he picked up a brush and placed his
initials “H.8.H.” in the corner of the
picture. Thereupon Streeton took another
brush and painted the letters “P.8.M.”
alongside, stating that a proper blooming
mess had been made of his good work.
Those letters stand out clearly in my
print. I wonder whether they are still on
the original.
❖ ❖ *X*
“H.C.8.”; Amongst the interesting
exhibits at the Pan-Pacific Jamboree at
Greystanes (N.S.W.) was a collection of
weapons and ceremonial ornaments from
Papua and New Britain. One shield in
particular, and its history—as told by the
stalwart, red-headed young lecturer —
intrigued me. He had entered a native
village just as the shield was about to be
thrown on a fire. What collector could
shut his eyes to such sacrilege? His pro-
tests met with amusement —the shield was
old and worn-out; it had been in many
fights: see, there were pieces of iron
from hostile spear-barbs embedded in its
surface! The scouter interviewed the
chief and explained that he wanted the
relic to take to Sydney so that the people
could see the splendid workmanship in
it. The trump was flattered ; but he
insisted that the people must see a new
shield, not a worn-out, shabby one! A
lot of patient explaining had to be done
before he grasped that the people would
rather see a shield that had actually been
used in a tribal battle. Finally he com-
promised: he would have the old one
painted again as it used to be. The lec-
turer grinned ruefully at his audience as
he pointed out the native colorings: reds,
blues and browns ; but the black edgings
—duco from Australia!
❖ *X* *X*
“Apple Isle”: “Seb'ak’s” schoolboy
translator (B. 24/12/’52) has a rival in the
Speck. A teacher told his class of 10-year-
olds to write in their own words of the
meeting between Little John and Robin
Hood on the bridge. At the stage where
Robin Hood ordered Little John to step
aside and let him cross first, one lad
recorded as Little John’s comeback:
“That’ll be the day!”
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Cauboy”: What does the A.B.C. mean
by “guest conductor”? A guest pre-
supposes a host, and the orchestra could
no more be called the host of a conductor
than the crew, of a battleship could be
described as the hosts of the commander.
The Victorian Symphony Orchestra
xeally has no conductor. Professor
Heinze being on a wandering commission
—he is earning eulogies in Canada at the
present moment —and making only
infrequent appearances in Melbourne,
while the various “permanent” conductors
the A.B.C. has imported have been any-
thing but permanent. There is a fashion-
able notion that orchestral playing first
became worth listening to after Harty’s
visit. He is supposed to have galvanised
a moribund body into some semblance of
life, after which subsequent conductors
like Schneevoigt, Sargent, Beecham,
Kubelik and De Castro successively woke
it up. But in Melbourne, at any rate, the
real interest in music was when there
was a permanent conductor like Ver-
brugghen or Marshall Hall. Nowadays
it seems to be more an interest in visiting
wielders of the baton.
“Hampton”: A few months ago Ser-
vice Department, discussing the origin of
the term “pommy,” said it was unknown
to Stephens and O’Brien (1910). I can
vouch that it was in use several years
before that; certainly before 1906, when
I left Sydney to take charge of a bush
school. I had often heard boys call new
arrivals “immigrants-jimmygrants,” but
when I was a pupil-teacher in
the Dulwich Hill area I heard young
Victor John Daley Farrell (son of poet
John Farrell) and some of his mates
chanting “Immigrant-jimmygrant-
pommygrant.” I asked Farrell where they
got the pommygrant, and he said it just
seemed to go with the other two words.
The term soon became popular, and for
many years I thought it had originated
with those lads. However, my brother-
in-law is equally certain that before he
left school at Balmain at the turn of the
century he and his pals were chanting
“Immigrant - jimmygrant - pommygrant.”
Like young Farrell, he claims they used
the third word purely because they liked
the sound of it; it had nothing to do with
rosy complexions. This opinion is
shared by Leon Gellert, who wrote on
the subject in the “Sydney Morning
Herald,” and said “My memory
is so vivid on this point that I
am almost persuaded to believe that the
term originated in our district.” Gellert
is a South Australian, and if the term
was familiar to him in Adelaide and to
‘7 don't like the expression in its eyes."
my brother-in-law and me in Sydney in
the* early years of the century it must
have been already well established.
♦♦♦ ♦> ❖
“Clooter”: A Sydney clergyman
described this as “the age of Humphrey
Bogart,” and went on to deplore the fact
that the heroes of popular literature,- the
screen and radio are “tough guys” who
bash their way through regardless and
give their women curry in the process—
said women enjoying the experience. It’s
true enough that all the way from
Hemingway to Micky Spillane the big
oaf is glorified, apd I’ve an idea that part
of the reason is the growing official control
of everything. Every time a Peter
Cheyney character kicks a cop in the teeth
we ordinary blokes cheer, not because the
cop is—er —copping it, but because the
kicker typifies our revolt against the
paralysis of bureaucracy. Officials tell us
when and what we’ll eat and drink, read
and look at; how much money we can
keep from what we earn ; where we may
or may not go, and so forth. Is it any
wonder that the tough guy, the indi-
vidualist, using his fists and teeth and
standing alone against the massed ranks
of crime and dumb cops, has become a
sort of ideal for a people whose inde-
pendence and self-reliancy has been
strangled by red-tape?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Casca”: Eire’s neutrality during the
war was conveniently forgotten by the
many Irishmen who joined the British
forces, and it was not always strictly
observed at home. British Overseas Air-
ways operated the ti ansatlantic service
from Foynes, intending passengers being
flown from England, but service officers,
to conform to neutrality laws, had to
travel as civilians. When I made the trip
my passport was endorsed Government
official travelling on duty. I bought
sports-coat and grey flannels and packed
my R.A.A.F. uniform out of sight. At
Shannon airport our bags were not
examined, but passports were scrutinised,
Looking at mine the Customs official said
Government official, eh ? What depart-
ment?” Before I could think of a reply
he grinned “It wouldn’t be Air Depart-
ment, would it? as he handed back the
passport. I didn’t think anyone would
notice the blue shirt I was wearing.
*X* ❖
“Melbn”: A fierce row has broken out
in Melbourne between incensed citizens
and the City Council, which has an-
nounced its intention of rooting out 100
stately poplars from St. Kilda-road. Mel-
burnians think that thoroughfare the
world’s finest boulevard; it isn’t, by a
long chalk, but it is pretty good, and it
is a pity the City Fathers don’t look after
it better. In Paris every street tree re-
ceives individual attention, and in
America tree-surgeons treat trees like
human beings, amputating limbs and pro-
longing life by complicated operations.
In Melbourne they are just left to grow
until somebody comes along and says
they’re too old. As the council is deter-
mined to pursue its work of destruction,
brought to consider replacing the poplars
with Australian trees —for instance,
Eucalyptus fid folia, the flowering-gum
which when in blossom makes King’s
Park, Perth, a magnificent pageant of
color.
* •* *
“Toby”: We left Port Lincoln (S.A.)
for London, via the Cape, with 70-odd
days of sea in front of us. That’s what
we thought when, after listening to the
cook’s story that our hair would regrow
stronger and more luxuriant than before,
we submitted to the ministrations of his
shears and razor. A week later we were
headed back to Fremantle with boiler-
trouble and a crew of eggshell blondes.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Curtain-raiser”: Contemplating the
plans and specifications Frank Heath has
prepared for the Olympic stadium in
Melbourne and the estimated cost thereof
—over a million at present prices and
the prices four years hence are bound to
be higher, all to be borne by the Govern-
ments of the Commonwealth and Victoria
and the Melbourne City Council (i.e.,
me) —I can’t help wondering why I, as a
rate- and taxpayer, am expected to pay
tor something I don’t want and don’t
like and which doesn’t interest me in
the slightest. Why don’t the sports pay
for it? It would have been a simple
thing for the athletic clubs to make a
levy on their members. I know it is
only a difference of associations that I
don’t like what they like, but why should
I have to pay for their indulging their
associations when they wouldn’t dream
of paying for me indulging mine—which
might be anything from drinking beer to
writing poems?
FROM THE HORSE’S MOUTH
“The N. S. Wales Premier, Mr. Cahill, said
he believed the people of Australia did not want
seven taxing authorities.”
“ There’s some,” said Cahill, “think
Menzies mean.
And Artie Fadden ;
7 hough one’s astute, the other keen,
Ncither’s a bad-’un ;
But take the six State Premiers —
One feels disgusted
That men should hold the public purse
Who can’t be trusted.
‘‘Take Cahill,” said Cahill, ‘‘of New South
Wales;
We’ve heard him bellow
His public works like bargain-sales —
A dreadful fellow;
He squandered cash, and Bob and Art
Kindly replaced it —
Alas, it broke poor Fadden’s heart,
So much was wasted.
“At last,” said Cahill, “up went their
backs ;
We heard them snarl
‘Let him as spends it levy tax —
This fellow Cahill!’
Immediately, Cahill began
In. some dejection
To change into a ‘businessman’
For re-election.
“Cahill spoke,” said Cahill, “against high
price
As if he meant it,
And looked at every million twice
Before he spent it.
Another of his new designs
Caused a sensation :
Railways run on ‘business lines’ —
An innovation I
“This ‘business’ - pose,” said Cahill,
“seemed strange
In Cahill’s lieutenants,
But still they felt they must arrange
A Lenten penance :
They know the feast succeeds the fast —
The right of taxing :
Money to build, and burn, at last !—
The thought’s relaxing.
“ ‘Labor’,” said Cahill, “must always be
In power here,
As rare an aristocracy
As bottled beer:
It satisfies a public want.
None can deny it.
But most who want it mostly can’t
Afford to buy it.”
“So though,” said Cahill, “it’s acting big
And seeming thrifty,
Cqhill’s Governmental guinea-pig
Is far too shifty,
And when a fellow understands
The ‘Labor’ party.
One don’t put money in its hands —
It’s safe with Artie.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Southerner”: Without any doubt
they’re friendly people in North Queens-
land, but what has always puzzled
me is whether they think of themselves
as the only genuine Australians or as
some separate and favored race. Re-
member calling, with a friend who was a
native of the district, on an old couple
who had lived all their lives near Rock-
hampton. The old lady was intrigued
to learn that my home was near Parra-
matta, her grandmother came from “those
parts.” Then, as she bustled inside to
whip-up a colossal afternoon-tea, she
called to her spouse: “Come here, Joe,
visitors. Bill Local’s brought a young
lady to see us —a foreigner from Sydney.”
■
“Eve”: Back came a manuscript from a
publisher. This was not surprising, free-
lancing being the simplest of routines —
you just send in your MS. and the pub-
lisher sends it back. No fuss, no compli-
cation. But there was a bookmarker in
the MS. this time, no doubt left there, I
told myself, by the publisher’s bored
reader. It advertised a wholesale wine-
merchant, and on the back was a phone-
number in pencil. Always willing to give
curiosity a fair go, I dialled the number
and said to the piale voice which
answered “I’ve been recommended by
(name of publishing house).” The voice
said brightly “Oh, you mean Mr. X?”
I agreed, hoping the Voice would say
“0.K., I’ll send you a sample bottle.”
But the owner of the pencilled phone-
number just said “Well, I suppose it’s all
right. Ten-bob’s the smallest I take and
fifteen to one’s my limit.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”; It seems the “velvet-glove”
complex so prevalent in modern jails fails
to make the inmates mend their ways. In
fact. Lord Jowitt seems to think that
crooks are too well off in clink. For
instance, he suggests that young lags
should be given brief spells of freedom,
bright lights, girls and such so that, per-
haps, when back in quod, confined and
lonesome in their cells, they’d feel their
punishment so much they’d swear off
crime. But why not sentence each to life-
capitulation to a wife?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Billy S.”: In my usual hash-house I
sat down next to an elderly bloke armed
with horn-rimmed glasses and a pocketful
of pens and pencils. As I sat down he
said “May I have the menu when you
are finished with it?” I handed the card
to him, he peered at it and said “Yes, I
thought so —definitely prunes-.” He drew
my attention to the plate in front of him
—one wrinkled prune in all its naked
ugliness, lialf-drowned in a sea of watery
custard. He squinted down at his pocket,
and, with the care of a Von Nida selecting
the correct iron to play a trick approach-
shot, finally settled on a formidable-
looking pen, picked up the menu again
and carefully scored through the “s” on
the word “prunes.” “There,” he said. “We
may as well approach this thing realisti-
cally and get it in its proper perspective.”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Cauboy”: Laurence Olivier at the
end of one of his performances in Mel-
bourne bowed and said: “Well, my'
friends, I hope when ♦! come back to
your delightful country all your colds
will be cured.” The laryngeal troubles
of Australian audiences oughtn’t to
trouble the latest batch of Stratford-on-
Avon players who, with Anthony Quayle
as captain, embarked for Australia and
New Zealand two days before Christ-
mas and should reach here in time for
the height of the Australian summer.
This is Quayle’s second visit. He has
thinned himself down since his last
appearance, and can now ride all mounts,
from the rotund Falstaff to Othello and
the melancholy Jacques, He has had a
meteoric rise in the higher realm of the
English theatre. Demobbed in 1945 after
serving first as a gunner and then as a
secret-service man with the partisans in
Albania, he wrote two books and then
went back to the footlights. In 1948
he was put in command at Stratford and
given a free hand and a permanent en-
gagement. He took his time, and fre-
quently incurred the ire of the critics by
giving only five performances a year, but
he raised the standard of Shakspearian
productions so high that visitors to Shak-
speare’s birthplace didn’t resent having to
hang around waiting,
❖ ❖ ❖
“Fairf”: Nineteen-fifty-three brought
the customary field of infants in the run-
ning for the honor of being first baby
born in the glad New Year ; first past the
post apparently being the cherub who
arrived in Fairfield (N.S.W.) just 60
seconds after the infant January. But
the claim has left me perplexed. Unless
I’ve been grossly misinformed, the stork’s
methods incline more towards those of
the plodding tortoise than the dashing
hare, which doesn’t seem to fit in with
the vision of a worried doctor suddenly
clicking his stop-watch and emitting the
triumphant yell “Twelve-one a.m. flat!”
Perhaps the initiated can pin-point the
exact minute whence the clock be-
gins to check-off a new-arrival’s life, but
to this layman it savors of the efficiency-
expert who saw one of the firm’s travel-
lers standing idle on the corner and de-
manded “What are you doing?” “Wait-
ing for a bus,” was the reply. “All right,”
rapped the expert. “Make it snappy,
then, make it snappy! ”
“C. 8.”: Overheard in Bqurke-street,
Melbourne, during the Christmas shop-
ping frenzy. An elderly lady, obviously
dating from the neck-to-knee era, was
surveying a window given over to the new
styles in bathing-costumes, which haven’t
yet gone to the same lengths or lack of
length in Melbourne as in Sydney. “I
wouldn’t be in too much of a hurry to
buy one of those things,” she said to her
daughter. “Why not, mother?” asked her
offspring, “Well, how do you know those
French things they’ve got in Sydney won’t
catch on here?” was the unexpected
rejoinder.
“Emjai”: In the home-service section
of the department store I saw refrigera-
tors, washing-machines, vacuum-cleaners,
electric floor-polishers, cake-mixers, pres-
“Did you post my letter?”
sure-cookers and a hundred and one
gadgets down to , bean-slicers and gas-
lighters, But all I was seeking was a
brown china teapot like Mother used to
have, and which did not dribble. “Tea-
pots?” said the salesman. “Yes, over
there. Try them out.” Service indeed!
Rows of brown China teapots were on
view where the press of femininity was
thickest, and on the bench a can of water
and a bucket. I tried five before I got
one that poured without a dribble, and
rejoiced that at last there would be no
more stained table-cloths, slopped
saucers and frayed tempers. But why
have the housewives not risen in their
might to demand for this essential adjunct
of the beloved cuppa some modicum of
the thought and ingenuity that have gone
into the development of modern gadgets?
The too-simple remedy of giving the
lower lip of the tapered spout just a teeny
kick-up instead of the dribbling roll-
over has apparently not occurred to the
mass-producers.
* ❖ ❖
“J.K.M.”: Latest Melbourne concerns
to celebrate their centenary are Gordon
and Gotch and Menzies’ Hotel —the
former by the issue of an attractive
"So shy!”
brochure and Menzies’ by erecting a
bronze plaque and making a display of
historical documents and books by
authors who have been guests —these go
back to Anthony Trollope, who stayed
there in 1871. Photographs of theatrical
people who have made the hotel their
home are also on exhibition. Menzies
began his hotel career in a hotel now
called the Empire—one of the many
places in Melbourne erroneously
designated as Governor La Trobe’s home.
Later he became licensee of the hotel
which bears his name. He died 72 years
ago, but the reputation he built up is thus
perpetuated.
♦> ❖
“Stripey”: Unable to get a wharfside
berth in the overcrowded war-time port
our battlewagon had to tie-up on the
outside of a tanker, which sat incon-
gruously some 30ft. below her. The
shore-access problem was solved by the
acquisition of a builder’s ladder which.
securely lashed to both ships’ guardrails,
formed a bridgehead whereby the sailors
invaded the town. Returning to the ship
some hours later, faces shining with
glory, voices raised in triumphant song,
the leave-men were confronted with the
now-formidable ladder. The assault was
unique in the history of naval boarding-
parties! The obstacle was attacked from
the flanks, rear and by forward rushes,
Some managed half the rungs, to fall
defeated between the ships. Others,
teetering two rungs from the top, were
unceremoniously hauled inboard by their
collars. Noisy urgings from upper-deck
parties mingled with howls of frustration ;
and roars of anguish from boarders with
squashed fingers. Finally, with the com-
bined efforts of the duty-watch, mess-
mates and sideboys, the revellers got
safely on board. Next morning when
many of them saw the Commander as
defaulters, the ladder did collapse—under
the weight of excuses heaped upon it!
*• ♦♦♦ *
“Pawang”: Scientists are always dis-
covering fresh marvels. The latest is that
the Antarctic is a vast ice-chest that
should be used for cold-storage of food
in times of glut and plenty. This, at
any rate, is the idea of Phillip Law,
director of the Australian Antarctic
Research expeditions. But if the matter
is looked at in world terms there never
is a time of glut. If there’s a surplus in
one country there is dearth in others. In
Asia there’s always a dearth. It seems a
superfluous and costly operation trans-
ferring food to the Antarctic, to be stored
in a natural refrigerator and then brought
out like the suburban bottle of beer or
pound of butter, when it could be much
more easily and cheaply sent to countries
that are suffering from a shortage and
given to them for nothing. And if it is
the spread of Communism that needs to
be prevented nothing would do it better.
❖ ❖ *>
“Pip Tok”: Sign-language has its diffi-
culties. A New Australian walked into
the general store, made scissors-snipping
signs with the first and second fingers
of one hand, while he tugged at the cuff
of a trouser-leg with the other. After
the shopkeeper had shown him every-
thing that would cut, from nail-scissors
to garden-shears, he let him go behind
the counter to pick out what he wanted.
The customer’s face beamed with triumph
as he held up two screw clothes-pegs
which he fastened to the ankle-ends of
his strides.' He wanted them for trouser-
clips when riding his bike.
“Alta”; “Talk about mugs for luck,”
he moaned to me on Monday morning.
“I take this chap to the races, see? He’s
a golfer and hasn’t ever been on a race-
course in his life'before. I don’t have a
winning bet all day and he gets four
winners—good prices, too.” “How did
he pick ’em?” I asked. “Pick ’em!” he
snorted. “Well, I’ll tell you. The first
race comes up and he backs number four
because four is par for the first hole on
his golf-course. It wins and pays 10 to 1.
He uses the same system with every race
and gets three more winners. Talk about
mug’s luck!”
“Blue P.”; My pet phobia, both as a
reader and sub-editor, is the overworked
phrase “carried out.” I’ve fought it
grimly for 25 years, but up it bobs—
experiments are carried out, instructions
get the same treatment, so do military
movements, plans of all kinds, even
promises. All, all are carried out. I
meet the phrase on an average of five
times a day, and always it gives me a
mental vision of something being carried
by somebody. Why reporters and writers
can’t use “obeyed” or “followed” or
“completed” or “fulfilled” beats me, and
I suppose I’ll have to keep on exorcising
it until the slashing pen falls from my
limp hand and I, at last, am carried out.
THE GIRL WITH THE MOUSE-
COLORED HAIR
The girl with the mouse-colored hair
Cannot look at me without laughing.
When I tell her I love her she says I read
novels.
She of course reads Ovid, in the original;
Has other habits equally obnoxious,
And not so funny.
The girl with the mouse-colored hair
Can make me happy by merely laughing.
When I tell her I’m happy she talks of
philosophy.
She reads Freud, and believes I am
CEdipus;
Is “adjusting” me when I think her
friendly.
Which isn’t often.
The girl with the mouse-colored hair
Bites her fingernails, smokes like a
volcano.
Thinks Dixieland is music, dances like a
tricycle.
She says that I’m stodgy and makes me
feel silly;
Makes me feel certain that I must marry
her,
Or never marry.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


Still keeps going
when the rest
have stopped”
if
S-2
I
♦
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
GX4.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
Fair enough that Derek Cuming should
fly an Australian Canberra jet in the
coming England-New Zealand air-race.
In 1951 he flew the R.A.A.F.’s
first Canberra to Australia, first
jetman to do the trip. Another
“first” was notched in 1947, when he flew
to Macquarie Island. Cuming has up-
wards of 4000 hours logged, many of
them spent trying to tear the guts out of
aircraft in test-flights. In connection
with this pleasantry, one of his earliest
jobs was testing captured Jap planes.
Made the R.A.A.F.’s chief defect-detective
in 1944, he later went to England, testing
Meteors and Lincolns, and returned to
Australia to put our first locally-made
Lincolns and Vamps through their paces.
Hailing from Yarraville (Vic.), he’s been
in service 14 years, and wears wing-
commander’s rings, A.F.C. and bar.
Sir Cyril Kirkpatrick, a greying British
civil-engineer with a neatly-pruned mous-
tache and many outstanding jobs to his
credit, is spending the first part of his
post-retirement leisure looking over Aus-
tralian ports. As assistant-engineer, and
later chief-engineer, of the Port of Lon-
don Authority, he bossed the building of
the King George V dock at North Wool-
wich, London, one of the biggest in the
world. Another of his jobs was the erec-
tion of the King Edward VII bridge over
the Tyne, for which the foundations had
to be laid 70ft. below high-water mark.
In War II he had a big hand in the build-
ing of the hush-hush “Mulberry” floating-
harbor units used so effectively in the
Normandy visit.
“Oso”: Still pioneering—this time near
Terrigal (N.S.W.) —Michael Terry, whose
journeys through the Territory and the
Kimberleys, as well as one from Winton
(Q.), to Derby (W.A.), made headlines
25 years or so ago. As well as carving
out a home in a magnificently timbered
patch of country a few miles from the
sea coast, he has laid out a grove of
bananas in country where their cultiva-
tion has never been attempted before —•
and judging by the samples ripening on
his veranda has every chance of making
a success of it. In spite of the years he’s
lived on the east coast, Terry still looks
the outback bushman —long, hard and
sunburned ; put him into “beaver moles”
and “larfin’-sides,” drop him into Broome
or Wyndham or Hall’s Creek, and you'd
never know he’d been away,
Westralian Rhodes Scholar for 1953,
Robert James Lee Hawke, is a lofty 22,
who gained honors with his law degree
in 1950, and represented the Westralian
University at cricket, hockey and baseball.
Besides being retiring president of the
Guild of Undergraduates, he is president
of the Congregational Youth Fellowship'
of Australia and New Zealand, and was
a delegate to the World Congress of
Christian Youth, which met at Travan-
core (India) on December 11. Family
background would seem to have had some
influence on his decision to concentrate
on philosophy, politics and economics at
Oxford —his father is a Pejth clergyman,
his uncle, A. R. G. Hawke, Leader of
the Opposition in the State House.
Put up his fourth, captain’s, ring, Tom
Morrison was the first C.O. of our first
Battle-class destroyer, Tobruk, which he
took out of Sydney on her power-trials
in mid-1950. A torpedo specialist—
Tobruk mounts 10 tubes —Morrison was
in cruiser Hobart at the evacuation of
Berbera (0.8. E.), and was Squadron
Torpedo Officer in flagship Australia at
the Lingayen business, his province then
being, as well as torpedoes, the efficient
running of the squadron’s complex
electrical gear (D.S.C.). Phlegmatic,
never known to raise his voice in anger,
and one of the two R.A.N. officers ever
to represent the Royal Navy at cricket.
S. W. Hedger, who brought sunshine
to thousands of the sightless, as his father
did before him, is retiring from the
directorship of the Royal Victorian In-
stitute for the Blind in St. Kilda-road.
Hedger became interested in the problem
while serving with his father, then man-
ager and teacher at the Blind Institute
in N.S.W. Later S.W. travelled the
State on a pushbike, teaching trades to
the sightless in their own homes. The
institution he is leaving has expanded
under his direction until it now has over
160 branches.
Westralian Uni. has awarded its
Gledden travelling fellowship in engineer-
ing to Aubrey Hosking, a 33-year-old
graduate, who started his engineering
course as a p.-0.-w. in Malaya ; his studies
then being arranged and supervised by
senior engineer officers similarly confined.
On release, Hosking carried on in Perth ;
after graduating joined the Snowy
Mountains Authority, and by it was
sent to the U.S. to study soil-testing and
the design and construction of outsize
earth-dams. Under his Fellowship, he
will have a look at the way these things
are done in Britain, as well as research
at the Imperial College of Science and
Technology in London,
Radar, television, the proximity-fuse,
jet aircraft and other little gadgets have
crossed the Atlantic, westward. But one
assumed that Kodak-Eastman was as
American as the Panhandle. However,
the Old Dart has a most influential finger
in that vast organisation, in the bland,
approachable figure of Kenneth Mees,
portrayed by Prior. Now vice-president in
charge of research, and for 40 years head
of the research laboratory in Rochester
(N.Y.), Mees hails from East Anglia, and
took his doctorate of science from London
University. Then, in 1912, George East-
man persuaded the Britisher to take his
know-how across-Atlantic. Already with
a distinguished reputation—before he was
30 he had made the first commercially
successful panchromatic plates, sensitive
to all colors—Mees went on to pioneer
improvements in the speed and sensitivity
DR. MEES, OF KODAK
of films, so that unskilled amateurs today
get better results than experts could when
he started. And he has reduced the tricky
problems of color-photography to the
point where amateurs can develop their
films at home. A Fallow of the Royal
Astronomical Society, Mees produced the
spectroscopic plates, capable of being
exposed for an hour or more, which the
Palomar giant and Mt. Wilson Observa-
tory use to catch the minute light from
incredibly distant stars. But his particular
baby is the application of science to the
photographic industry. Now 70, the
visitor stayed British for 36 of his 40
years in the U.S., and has had no Ameri-
can impression at all made on his accent.
“Macnell” meets a sailor-playwright.
It was a salty gathering. Casson, pr°ducer,
had been Navy; Lane, publicity panjandrum
for the Firm, had got his lieutenant s ring! »
Hastings, author, had been both lower-deck a
aft (the play, “Seagulls Over Sorrento, incor-
porates his naval learnings); and sen. o,
naturally, Hastings, a volatile, nuggety man o
obvious mental vigor, started with the
“I was pressganged in 1940. Asked me wn
I was. Actor, says I. Good, says they, you e
got a memory. Right—signalman. So tne
1 was, waving flags on an 18-knot motor-launc ,
bravely chasing 40-knot E-boats (or suppose
to be), escorting convoys and laying magneti
mines up the Maas River near Rotterdam. A
couple of years of that, then they asked d any-
one in the ship’s company was a public-scnooi-
boy. I piped up—Fort-street, y’know and got
HUGH HASTINGS, OF “ SEAGULLS ”
a sub-lieutenant’s ring. Before they found out
the difference between English, and Australian
public-schools I’d tossed a penny with another
cove —he won, and went to the prize, a steam
motor-gunboat. He ended up in the Dieppe
raid, minus one eye. I clewed-up in a destroyer,
mapping beaches for the invasion.” After
wangling a spot of leave in Sydney, Hastings,
eminently due to be elevated to lieutenant, was
stationed on Mahd Island, near Bombay. “With
seven different kinds of skin disease at one and
the same time.” He wrote “Seagulls” because
he wanted to put the lower-deck on-stage.
“That’s where you get the humor! Sharp as
needles.” A film in which he collaborated on
the screen-play, “Gift Horse,” is running in
London, featuring Trevor Howard and Richard
Attenborough. It is based on the destroyer
Campbeltown, the lend-lease has-been which
ended its life gloriously against the dock-caisson
at St. Nazaire. Critics picked at him because
he was “Navy-typed.” So he’s turned out “A
Touch of the Sun,” a psychological thriller set
in India. Hastings hopes to see it started here —
“a real first-night in Australia, instead of coming
second-hand from abroad” —before: he shifts
back to London.
Having worked through the reconstruc-
tion periods following two world wars,
Claude Taylor, senior backroom boy of
Western Command, is calling it a day.
In 40 years’ service he has been the right-
hand administrative man of a series of
District Commandants in Perth, and
became Command Secretary, Western
Command, when the post was created in
1947.
Two C.5.1.R.0. scientists, V. D. Burg-
mann and R. B. Coulson, have been
awarded the Bronze Medal of the British
Institute of Navigation for the best paper
published in the Institute’s Journal, 1951.
Entitled “An Investigation into Air Traffic
Control by a Simulation Method,” it has
aroused considerable interest in England.
It deals with equipment developed to
simulate the process of traffic-control
about an airport. Operators acting as
pilots each steer a tiny motor-driven wheel
over a map of the area around the air-
port. - Each wheel controls a spot of
light thrown on a large-scale map in
front of the airport-controller. The
“pilots” are in communication with the
controller and manoeuvre their “aircraft”
in accordance with his instructions. There
have been only two awards made by the
Institute, and both these have now come
to Australia. The former was the Insti-
tute’s Gold Medal awarded in 1950 to
H. C. Pritchard, a scientist at Woomera.
“X.S.”: This month the Victorian
police force reached the advanced age of
100 years, much to the surprise of Chief
Commissioner Duncan when the fact was
conveyed to him by a newspaper rounds-
man. Duncan promptly had a baton or a
flag or something hoisted to the masthead
at the Russell-street h.q. and issued an
inspiring address to the nation. It was
also the 100th anniversary of the Chief
Commissioner’s office. There have been
11 of them, the first being William Henry
Fancourt Mitchell. In those days there
were more murders in a week than there
are in a year in present-day Victoria—
five in one day the week the new force
was inaugurated, and one the day after,
as well as two cases of furious driving!
Cases of furious driving have gone up,
but general crime has gone down
enormously, proportionate to the popula-
tion, during the century, largely owing to
the efficiency of Duncan’s men and their
equipment.
Guy Willoughby has been promoted
rear-admiral, R.N, As Fourth Naval
Member and Commodore (Air), he put
our naval aviation on its pins, and went
home in 1950 to take command of the
R.N.’s newest and biggest, carrier Eagle.
A glutton for work and unable to go
slowly even after nearly 50 strenuous
years in harness, well-known banker Rex
Oldham will be forced shortly by age-
regulation to take life more leisurely. A
normal job for him is to visit 160 banks
under his Victorian jurisdiction in a
motor-run of 1000 miles or more. A
top-ranking man in the old Union, where
he occupied the No. 1 job in Sydney for
several years, on the merger with Aus-
tralasia he was appointed the first Chief
Inspector for the Victorian and Tas-
manian division of the A.N.Z. Bank. He
entered the Union at Laura (S.A.j and
joined the A.I.F. in 1914, reached the
rank of sergeant and married a nurse,
Sister Bennett. One daughter is a physio-
therapist ; the other is Margaret Oldham,
F.D.S., R.C.S. (Eng ), B.D.Sc. and L.D.S.
(Melb.), at present doing research in
dental science at Dalhousie University,
Canada.
After 14 years in the Westralian Par-
liament, James Dimmitt is off to
London, new Agent-General. Entering
the Legislative Council for the Metropoli-
tan Province in 1936, for the last six
years he' has been chairman of com-
mittees. A sturdy 64, an experienced
businessman who should prove of value
in connection with the considerable over-
seas buying his State expects to be doing
this year, outside politics he is a com-
pany director, member of the Westralian
Chambers of Commerce and Manufac-
tures, and a hard-working Rotarian.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 80, Captain Michael J. Lowe,
known to Second Battalioneers of the Ist A.I.F.
as “Number One” —his regimental-number. One
of the British sarge-majors brought out in 1912
to train C.M.F. battalions, he shipped to Egypt
when War I broke out, warrant-officer, and was
commissioned and wounded at Gallipoli. He
lost both sons in War 11.
At Timaru (N.Z.), at 89, Thomas W. Lynch,
an old-time sport of renown who played Rugby
against Stoddart’s team in 1888, potting the only
goal for New Zealand. In 1901 Lynch put up
a great fight against Anthony Wilding at the
last tennis tournament played before Wilding
went to Wimbledon, there to meet Norman
Brookes. Lynch’s son Tom was an All-Black
who toured California in 1913 and Australia the
following year. Keeping up the family sporting
tradition, a grandson was in the All-Blacks team
last year. Another son, Dr. P. Lynch, is the
N.Z. Government Analyst.
In Brisbane, at. 60, George Whitfield Wilson,
manager of Australian Mercantile, Land and
Finance for 17 years till he retired a few weeks
ago. He had been president of the Brisbane
Wool Selling Brokers’ Association and of
Legacy, and was a solid worker in War II for
p.-0.-w. (chairman of the committee) and Red
Cross (vice-chairman of the State division).
In London, at 69, Admiral Sir Hugh Binney,
for five years Governor of Tasmania. He was
at the Dardanelles in battleship Queen Elizabeth;
her gunnery-officer, responsible for the 15-inch
messages she delivered on to the heights. Later,
he commanded the Hood. For the first three
years of War II he was Admiral commanding
the important anti-submarine Orkneys and
Shetlands Station.


'V&V'T
MOOT
I THINK,
fg
UOOK*
BoT
Ccefcje
Fo^ouieQ.
DUMPER


ABORIGINALITIES
“R.L.W.”: The swy-school is held each
Sunday in a disused quarry just outside
the town. Cockatoos are posted and, at
the first sign of gendarmes, a whistle is
the signal for dispersal into the scrub.
One Sunday, a group of natives from the
near-by reserve were standing outside the
ring watching the pennies rise and fall.
Behind them a party of little girls was
gathering boronia. Suddenly a shrill
whistle sounded the alarm. The game
ended abruptly and the players beat it
for the scrub with the abos slightly in
the lead. The little girls looked up and
were terrified to see a party of wild blacks
bearing down upon them. They broke
and ran screaming for the shelter of the
bush. An innocent onlooker, I remained
there laughing at the pantomime—and
was the only one nabbed by the cops.
* * *
“Lead ’n’ Zinc”; “Green timber!”
snorts Joe. “You ain’t seen nothin’.
Built a place up the river a few years
ago an’ after the first rains the walls
started to sprout. We let the stock feed
off it for a season, then it flowered an’
seeded an’ got out of hand. So we had
to ringbark it. That fixed it, but after
the next rains some of the seeds started
to shoot into queer-looking saplings an’
in six months we’d grown two lavatories,
a stable an’ a dog-kennel.”
* * * *
“Soe”: “No,” said Unc., as he watched
the hot autumn winds whip the dust
from his basking paddocks, “I won’t sow
no more wheat. Blow Menzies! Let him
make the implement-firms deliver my new
tractor and combine; let him make the
railways deliver my super.; let him make
the miners work harder so that the
factories can get something done. I’m
not going to be the mug any longer;
growing cheap feed for city loafers.” Next
morning we were awakened by the
unbelievable sound of rain. For three
days it continued, steady and soaking;
the kind of rain that puts an end to
summer’s heat and lassitude and makes
the whole earth jump with the vigor of
millions of plants rushing up to light and
air As soon as the roads were dry
enough to travel Unc. headed for town.
An hour later his voice rattled through
the phone. “Get the tractors and
scarifiers ready. I dug up six tons of
super. Enough for two-hundred acres,
and I’ve been promised some more.”
When we were lumping the super, into
the shed I reminded him: “What about
Menzies?” “Aw, blow him,” he said,
“we haven’t had a working-up rain like
this for twenty years! A bloke’d be a
mug if he didn’t sow a few acres when
he can see a twelve-bag crop just asking
him to go and harvest it.”
* ♦ * *
“Elliver”: New Year was ushered in
with a roll of drums at Port Moresby,
Papua. Not war-drums, however, but
the thud of 44-gallon oil-drums belted
with sticks. On the tick of 12, as church-\
bells rang a polite peal or two and a few
sirens hooted in the harbor, pandemonium
broke loose as the native boys went to
work with the drums, kerosene-tins and
garbage-cans—anything, in fact, that
would produce a noise when thumped,
wives only excepted. We were amused
for the first five minutes and barely
tolerant at the end of ten. After 20
minutes, dazed and half-deafened, we
were relieved to see a police-boy step
into the hotel - yard. He looked,
searchingly about, seized a waddy and,
diving into a grove of banana-trees, pro-
ceeded to beat the devil out of an old
mobile fire-extinguisher.
* * ♦ ♦
“Billabong”: At a shearing-school in
N.S.W. the instructor was called to the
far-end of the board, where he found a
white-faced learner standing over a half-
shorn and apparently dead jumbuck. A
few slaps on the shoulder and willing
hands holding her head to the air soon
brought the old girl round. She fainted
again during the last couple of blows on
the tail, but was revived once more in
the same manner and, after a rest, allowed
to make a groggy exit down the chute,
much to the relief of the would-be
shearer. The full-mouthed lady had
hardly been pricked by the comb, so she
must have sensed something. Any similar
reports?
* ♦ ♦ *
“S.4E”: The car, the plane and the
private airstrip have taken a lot of the
fun out of outback travel. About 30
years ago I did a 200-mile jaunt in North
Queensland’s Flinders River country. It
began at the back of Telamon in a
drover’s wagonette, which landed me two
days later at a rail-siding on the main
western line. I waited two days for the
train; meals I took in the fettlers’
canteen; my swag I imrolled on the
waiting-room floor; the hours I passed
yarning to the station-master, porter and
signalman, who were all the same bloke.
When the train came it was four hours
late and got later as we rolled westward,
but who cared? I alighted at another
siding—quite a place, with a pub and a
store. In the pub I met a shearer recover-
ing from cutting out his cheque, and a
barefooted cove wearing the landlady’s
hat —he was a Government official “on
a bit of a scoot for the last few days.”
A chance lift in a dray landed me, six
“From now on We've got to take off our coats and get down to it."
miles on, at a solitary pub beside the river
where I had a few pots and slept the nignt
on the veranda. Next day I humped the
bluey over the river to a bachelor station
and asked for the loan of a horse.
Granted, bn condition I stayed and talked
to them for a couple of days. When 1
got the nag I was warned that, should i
see anybody from the station up river, i
must get off the road without delay-
“We pinched this horse off them' a while
ago and they don’t know we’ve got it.
It was a wonderful trip ; these times you d
do it in a day’s rough ride by car.
* * * *
“Mingari”: Three of us were punching
a mob of station cattle over a long, hot
dry stage and, on the tail of the mob,
I was having trouble with a young bull
who was feeling the heat considerably.
He finally lay down and, despite my im-
“Ain't gonna be no parson s nose."
passioned appeals and whip-blows, refused
to continue the journey. So, rashly
alighting, I twisted his tail with my left
hand and applied the whip with the right.
The results were astonishing. The bull
rose and started towards me, and I took
off with equal celerity. I suppose there
was some excuse for my cobbers —the
spectacle of a long, spindle-shanked, bow-
legged ex-horseman trying to run like the
devil in heavy spurs and high-heeled boots
would have made me laugh, too, if I’d
been in a position to appreciate it. In
the intervals of splitting their sides they
yelled at me to “lie down and he’ll jump
over you.” I was far too busy to attempt
the experiment and, fortunately, the bull
conked out again just before I did. But
has anybody ever seen it done? I’m
told it’s safe with a bull or a bullock
but not with a cow —she, being a female
and perverse, will stop and put in a bit
of goring.
* * * *
“Bass”: A Perth man who had a visit
from a night-bird which was so tame
that it would settle on his hand assumed
that it was someone’s escaped pet and
posed with it on his hand for a Press
photographer. He was wrong in assuming
that it was a pet simply because it was
tame, and so was the paper which called
it a “mopoke owl.” The errors are
common. Many people think that the
“mopoke” call, probably the most familiar
night sound in the Australian bush, is
made by the tawny-frogmouth. Actu-
ally it comes from the boobook owl, so
named because that’s as near as we can
get to what the natives called it. Evidently
the call that sounds like “mopoke” or
“raorpork” to a white ear is best de-
scribed in abo. language as “boobook.”
The tawny-frogmouth is a bigger bird,
much easier to become acquainted with
and consequently much better known. In
daylight he can pass himself off as a
broken branch on a tree, and if he’s dis-
turbed he doesn’t fly off —he freezes. He’ll
carry the deception to the extent of aliow-
ing himself to be picked off the tree,
and I’ve walked a mile with one sitting
apparently contentedly on my hand. He
flew off when it was dark enough for him
to see clearly.
* % Si! Sjt
“Emjai”: Since consequences often
color their evidence, those stung are not
always reliable witnesses regarding the
stings and nips of the bees, bullants, bots
and whatnot (B. 7/5/’52). A tribe of
wasps had built their nest over the door
in a small outside wooden structure, and
Dad’s notion was to fix them with a
burning petrol-'rag on a long stick. He
went to it with concentration of care
until an unnoticed wasp pinged his bald
head. He forgot his petrol-rag while he
danced around like a man stung by a
wasp. The crackle told him the worst.
The fire-brigade saved adjacent buildings,
but, at a cost of one sting and one privy
for one wasp-nest demolished, Dad was
down on the deal, and he places the wasp
out on its own as a public enemy.
* * * *
“D.H.”; On the oft-discussed ques-
tion of where the pelicans build, any
Queensland bushman will gladly tell you,
“Out along the Georgina or up on the
salt-pans of Rutland Plains station, east
coast of the Peninsula.” The pelicans
fly a long way from Rutland Plains to
fill their bags in the nesting season, down
as far as Normanton and beyond, perhaps
200 pelican miles to long lagoons where
their fishing is easy. The abos liked to
see them coming: “Pelican come!
Pelican come! Plenty tucker! Plenty
fish!” Into the water would go their
hollow logs, and when the pelicans had
come driving down to the end of the
lagoon and had turned, their long necks
groping on the back drag, out would come
the logs with some fine catches in them.
* * * *
“Eureka”: A South Coast, N. S. Wales,
farmer has completely rid his place of
rabbits by what he calls the Canberra
method. He bought a job-lot of loud-
speakers, connected them to his radio-
set and placed them close to the warrens.
He then kept the radio tuned in to Federal
Parliament. The rabbits stuck it out
for three days and then packed up and
left the farm. Only catch will be if the
R.S.P.C.A. reckons his “Canberra
method” i§ crueller than myxomatosis.
IKE PEACHY. ON WEEDS
[From the “Rangamutty” eclogues.]
Indeed, Lord, pascalja’s a strong-growing weed,
deep-rooted, free-footed, with achenes for seed.
Its yeller flowers dog like a sunflower the sun
as You know, Who made it, when all’s said and
done.
Though gilded like guineas, no guineas they
breed,
so save us, good Lord, from pascalia weed.
There’s capeweed! Who made it, Lord, You
would know best!
It has woolly achenes as destroys every beast.
Oh, capeweed’s a daisy, with pretty rosettes,
ray florets, disk florets and stamen bow-quettes.
It gives horses, sheep, calves, heifers and boars
hair-balls in their stomachs called phytobezoars.
Its quakers-—its seeds —as is so soft as silk,
will travel six acres to taint all the milk.
I won’t raise the question of Who is to blame,
but, jest You destroy, Lord, these pests all the
same.
Preserve us, good Lord, from that scourge
Aaron’s-rod,
and five-toothed-mint’s toxic nutlets —Oh, God!
From Yass-river-tussocks, star-thistles, calthrops,
Devil’s-claw, horehound —good Lord save our
crops!
From oape-tulip, crown-beard, bold-Jack and
cockspur
Deliver us, Lord! And from galvanised-burr.
Root up stinkwort, lantana and Paterson’s-
curse,
thorn-apples, clary—that’s sage, Lord —and
furze,
—a fool made all weeds, but I’m blest if I’d
guess
what kind of a fool thought out this hoary-cress.
—A bright flash of lightning, a dropped thunder-
bolt,
here brought to an end old Ike Peachy’s revolt.
N.S.W.
ETHEL ANDERSON.


“J. 8.”: They were racing at Woolvil]
and accommodation was scarce. True t
custom, the only pub dealt with the situa
tion by allotting rooms to married
couples, while bachelors and spinster
were given beds on the balcony. At th
height of festivities Peter, the Creel
hotelkeeper, got a wire requesting room
for a family of father, mother and grown
up daughter. He scratched his head and
thought deeply. Then “All right, a]
right! You senda telegram. Say ‘Room
for mother and father. Daughter sleep
on balcony at own risk,’ ”
* * * *
Under an old New Guinea
law dynamiting of fish is permissible, anc
planters take advantage of it to provide
native labor with the diet they prefer
Method is to take six boys in a launch
and cruise about until the No. 1 boy
points in a certain direction and cries,
“Plenty fish ’e stop. Master.” A plug
of dynamite with lighted fuse is then
hurled in the given direction and the
boat set astern. The resounding detona-
tion makes one think the bottom of the
boat is shattered, and the grating vibra-
tion rises above one’s knees. When the
launch returns, stunned and dead fish are
rising to the surface. Over go the boys
to throw them into the launch, and a
ton of fish is an ordinary catch. The
boys are not the only beneficiaries. A
few seconds after the report sharks
appear, streaking this way and that like
racing shadows and seizing the belly-
upward fish while the boys nonchalantly
carry on with their task. The scene soon
shatters the notion that sharks have to
turn over to take their prey.
♦ * * *
“S.C.G.”: There was a palpable
misprint in the very interesting history
of “Old Jimbour and the Darling Downs”
(B. 31/12/’52). The ration-scale is given
as 161 b. meat, 81b. flour, 21b. sugar and
41b. tea. My father and my grandfather
had a lot to do with shepherds in the
early days around Gulgong, and the
ration-scale was always given as 10, 8,
2 and I can’t imagine any old-time
squatter giving his shepherds four pounds
“ ’Otd’s the road farther out, sport P”
of tea for a week’s ration—nor them
drinking it.
* * * *
“A.E.S.”: I’m reading a book on social
reforms, one chapter of which describes
the use of spring-guns and mantraps by
owners of game-preserves in England, a
practice which was made illegal only a
hundred years ago. Those gunjs and
traps were frightful things—sharp spears,
saw-toothed traps, trip-wired guns, ex-
plosives, etc. —and they killed and
maimed not only those who poached
pheasants and hares but innocents like
housemaids unfamiliar with the placing
of the traps, bird-nesting boys, tree-
pruners and courting couples. It is
salutary to read the arguments advanced
against their abolition: the game should
belong to those who feed it; the ordinary
man had undeveloped tastes and game
was wasted on him ; the owners of pre-
Hold everything! We're on the Wrong allotment /’*
serves would leave the country if deprived
of the right to defend their property.
Those are sobering things to read, but
what shocked me most was the memory
of my recent plans for a sneak-thief
neighbor who was living off my broad-
beans and marrows, I lay awake at
night thinking of traps, concealed barbed-
wire and falling timber. It was, I regret,
only my lack of ingenuity that saved him.
* « * »
“Humus”: In the spring of 1941 at
R far Vitkin, Palestine, I caught a chame-
leon and tried out its color-changes (B.
24/12/’52). The only responses were
with greens, khaki and reds. Darker
shades, such as black, only gave a darker
hue to the natural, blotchy mud color.
White gave a lighter hue. The changes
were not over the whole body, but only
over the side next to the material. Small
pieces of material placed near the chame-
leon produced a change only on the cor-
responding area of the body. Incidentally,
the little blokes are quite docile despite
their ferocious hiss.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Shamuseen” v That weather-controller
whose shipmates cast him adrift as a
punishment for his inefficiency (B.
31/12//52) was an example of the magic-
maker’s unhappy lot once his Pacific
Islands patrons have lost faith in him.
On Badu Island in Torres Straits I heard
from old Madua the fate of his father,
long-time “purri-purri” man in the village
and but lately supplanted by another
practitioner of, demonstrably greater
devil-power. The late incumbent was, at
the suggestion of his supplanter, tied with
vine ropes and buried in the loose sand
to much applause, led by his own sons.
About an hour later Madua senior caused
an embarrassing contretemps by standing
up in his grave, thus arguing either the
inefficiency of those who had roped him
or a rejuvenation of his “purri-purri”
powers. Before they would restore him
to his late office the crowd demanded that
he stage an encore of his resurrection,
with his own sons doing the trussing-up.
Madua senior caused no further interrup-
tion of that installation ceremony nor of
those which have marked the swearing-in
of six “purri-purri” merchants over the
last 50 years.
* * * *
“Koreelah”: It was the break-up of the
long three-years drought in s.-w. Queens-
land, and I was out in the brigalow
country between the Ward and Langlo
Rivers when the rain came. Before it,
the gilgai holes were dry, dusty depres-
sions. Within a week they were fairly
teeming with small black and brown
crabs, some no bigger than a threepenny-
bit and others the size of a saucer. By
day they stayed submerged or near the
edges of the gilgais, but by night, with a
lamp, you could see the whole surface of
the earth apparently moving as they filled
the bush with their rustling and clattering.
What’s the explanation? Did they hatch
from dormant spawn left by the last
swarm, or did they hibernate in the mud
from one flood to another? Finally—for
they vanished as quickly as they came
when the (water dried up—where the
blazes did they go? They didn’t die—if
they had the bush would have been paved
with shells,
* * * *
H. A. Lindsay: Our museums often
find it very difficult to secure some par-
ticular specimen. Typical is the case of
the S.A. Museum and its work
in tracing the origin of the
dingo. At one end of the trail
lies our wild dog; at the other
is its probable ancestor, the wild
dog of India. The connecting-
link is a dingo-like wild dog
which lives in the mountains of
Central New Guinea above the
10,000 ft. line. Local natives often
go up to hunt it and many white
men have seen it or have heard
it, yet nobody, it seems, can
supply the urgent demand for a
few museum specimens. If any
prospector, missionary or patrol-
officer in New Guinea wants to
earn the thanks of scientists —
and place his name on the
honor-roll—he has only to for-
ward to the S.A. Museum the
following: A few sound skulls
of the wild dogs which live in
the New Guinea highlands, plus
properly dried and preserved skins of a
male and female animal. A preliminary
letter to the director of the S.A. Museum
will bring full instructions as to how the
skin should be removed and treated.
Freight paid on specimens will be re-
funded.
* * * *
“Dug”: In Noakes’s shed was a big
heap of baled tobacco-leaf, dark and
dry, and I was surprised to see the old
chap pull out a hand of it, scrabble it
up and ram it into his outsize pouch.
“You can’t smoke that T I said. “Can’
I?” he replied. “Six tons o’ Dungowan
there. Leastways there was, but I been
smokin’ out of it ’bout 20 years. Left on
me ’ands by the buyers. Offered me six-
pence a pound, then wouldn’t take it
nohow. Only wanted bright leaf. Well,
I’m gettin’ even. They’re chargin’ round
two-bob an ounce for smokin’s now, an’
I reckon that heap’s worth ’bout £20,000
to me. Ev’ry pound 1 smokes I makes a
profit of thirty-bob on their measly six-
pence a pound.” “But,” I said, “using
half-a-pound a week, you’ve got five-
hundred years’ supply.” “I s’pose it’ll
see me out,” he said. “Maybe I could let
a ton or two go when the B.A.T. come
crawlin’ for it at my price.”
* * * *
“C. Towers”: Crows probably don’t
expect boys to carry real guns (B.
7/1/’53). They have —or so I was
solemnly assured when I was about 11—
another weakness in that they can only
count up to three. A crow seeing four
men go into a house and, later, three
emerging, at once concludes the coast is
clear and hops down to grab what he
can. The remaining man may then shoot
him at leisure. They are, too, easily
betrayed by their fellows, as anybody
who has ever built a crow-trap knows.
Bait your trap with a carcass and the
black croakers will come for miles to
discuss the situation—from the outside
and usually for a couple of days. Eventu-
ally one simpleton will venture in to
sample the feast, and from that moment
the others, all their suspicions cast to the
winds, will almost form a queue to join
him. And they never seem to wake up
to the real meaning of the contrivance —
one trap, in which the bait is regularly
renewed, will go on catching crows for
a year or more in the one place.
“Nildem”: The travellers were pleased
to see the hut at the end of a day’s
travel, and the occupants, a stockman
and his hutkeeper, were just as pleased
when the travellers produced a dozen of
beer to go with supper. Afterwards the
guests were given the only two bunks
while the hosts slept on the floor. The
stockman forgot to mention that Dolly,
his horse, had a habit of putting her head
through the window at daybreak and
nudging her sleeping owner to let him
know that it was time for her morning
feed. At the first light Dolly duly nudged
and the occupant of the bunk rolled over
to see something like an apparition from
another world thrust against his face.
He yelled and hit out, the startled horse
threw her head up, the complete window-
frame came out, and Dolly galloped
screaming and kicking down the paddock
with the frame around her neck. It took
another half-dozen to soothe everyone’s
nerves.
* * * *
“C.Q.”; In a couple of years’ time,
when the immense Upper Yarra dam is
completed, Woods Point-road, a famous
pub (McVeigh’s) and the Upper Yarra
Valley, which has seen so many bushfires,
will be under water, and one of the
historic landmarks that will have to go
will be the 100-year-old waterwheel which
was all that was left when the inn was
destroyed in 1938. Chairman Jessop,
of the Vic. Board of Works, has had
many offers for it, but he is keeping it
to be removed and re-erected near the
new dam as a monument to days de-
parted.
* * * *
“Boronia”: Years ago, when he was
thinking of buying a farm in Gippsland
(Vic.), my father was not exactly en-
couraged by near-by settlers. “Crikey!
You’ll go bung out there, all right,” was
the general opinion. He bought the pro-
perty, however, and challenged local
pessimists, and destiny, by calling it
Willigobung. The name was gradually
revised to Wiligabung, and I believe some
savants have found an aboriginal mean-
ing for the word. We didn’t go bung,
incidentally—the property became one of
the most profitable in the district.
OTHER SCOTSMEN
Curlews calling at Mooloolaba,
Wavering over the name.
Could we have rest from our wandering,
Nought else of spring the same?
Under bright suns deserted,
Sea-sand delights no more
Where league-long the piling roller
Bolts the Pacific shore.
Then, while the white-polled eagle
Cruises beyond the heart,
Here are the curlews calling,
Calling with sudden start
Over wet, weedy skagerrak,
Emptied of sea and light,
Where wrack, wreck, rock of the tideway
Drips damp under the night,
Linking, where heath, bracken, boulder
Hearkened to the bidding psalm,
Hill-huddled, solemn disturbance
And sky-menacing calm.
Curlews calling where Mooloolaba,
Easing our exile pain,
Draws up her knees at the instant
And is a child again.
QUEENSLAND.
J. M. COUPER.


How will you spend your holidays
(jtonq fdacesl |
s
>v -
ii
-W
oi fjlats f
m
S:
THERE’S nothing like tyre trouble
on the road to upset holiday travel whether it’s a short trip
or a long holiday tour. It s so easy to make sure your
tyres will give the safe, dependable performance you want.
Just see your Goodyear Dealer —have him replace those
doubtful tyres with new Goodyear De Luxe or Super-
Cushions. Then you will have confidence that you’re on
the best tyres you can buy.
And remember , new tyres deserve new tubes fit new
Goodyear Heavy Duty Tubes ,
D
Q
UNI
ft
KsBa
LOOK FOR
THIS SIGN
good/year
TYRES & TUBES
AVAILABLE IN ALL SIZES—NOW'
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Shares Still Firm
Though Treasurer Fadden’s
references to tax-reduction possi-
bilities were guarded in his state-
ment last week, the sharemarket
kept close to the higher level
established since the new year
began. There was a weakening
in particular stocks, such as
Henry Jones and Gadsen
Hughes, as a result of reports of
a falling-off in the export of
tinned fruit and other canned
foods, and a reaction in
Tooth shares; but, on the
whole, the market made ground
lather than lost it. Even the
previously depressed textile
group showed an advance.
Yarra Falls, leader of the
woollen-textile section, moved
up to 405., compared with a
“low” of 365. last year. Patons
and Baldwins went to 255.
(19s. 9d. last year). Bradford
Cotton maintained its recent
price of 365. (30s. in 1952), and
buyers at that figure still got
plenty of industrial muscle for
their money, even though they
may think that the yield of
5.6 p.c. is good rather than spec-
tacular for the present.
The loss of £363,243 (including
provision for special deprecia-
tion) shown by J. E. Austin and
Sons (capital £255,000) was offset
to the extent of £212,505 by
revaluing assets and writing-
back provisions of various kinds,
reducing the net deficiency to
£150,738. There are reserves of
£85,000 to help offset this, mak-
ing net shareholders’ funds,
according to the accounts,
£167,299, subject to intangibles
of £18,779. Makers of underfelt
at Hoxton Park (near Sydney),
the Austin concern walked right
into trouble in its second year as
a public co. The sharemarket
was not fully prepared for the
results which the accounts had
to show, and there was a drop
of 4d. (to Is. 5d.) in the
ss. shares following publication
of the accounts. The scrip had
been down to Is. Bd. last year.
The co. is understood to be pro-
ducing a better product now, and
the upturn in wool prices should
help it so far as stock-valuations
I are concerned. But it has a battle
ahead of it.
Worsted Industries, which
showed a loss of £30,214 to
June 30, was another near-
Sydney woollen-textile co. to
strike trouble in its last term.
However, it has been a well-
managed and profitable concern
in ordinary times, and the current
year is more hopeful. Spinning
and weaving mills are both now
working. The co. makes a
medium - priced worsted, for
which there should be a good
demand if retail sales continue
to show improvement. The
ss. shares are around par.
F. W. Hughes Industries is a
stock with possibilities. One of
the last big floats before the
sharemarket slumped early in
1952, the shares have never sold
above par (205.). The co. has
large TST.S.W. station pro-
perties as well as textile and
meat-processing subsidiaries,
and should do better this year.
(Last term it showed 7.8 p.c.
on capital and declared a
6 p.c. tax-free dividend). Both
the season and prices have been
better. The shares have been as
low as 17s. since flotation. Last
week they were nudging par for
the first time in many months.
Taubmans, which dropped its
interim div. when Capital Issues
sanction to a new share-issue was
refused, has come good with a
final that has kept the rate at
15 p.c., and the yield at 16s.
“All right! All right! But Wait till / find
this balance!”
is 4.7 p.c. The div. last year was
comfortably covered. The co. is
very progressive, with interests in
chemicals as well as paints and
varnishes.
Masonite rights were men-
tioned several times in these
pages when they were available
around 14s. Now paid to 10s.
they are selling at 375., show-
ing a market profit of 13s. a
share to those who bought the
rights at 14s. As recently as
December 5 the lOs.-paids were
mentioned here (when available
at 28s;. 6d.) as being better buy-
ing than the fully-paids at 435.
The fully-paids have now gone
to 50s. When a final call is paid
on the contribs. on January 31
the cost at the present market-
price will be 4/s., which still
makes them a better purchase
than the old shares, even allow-
ing for difference in dividend
accruing.
A stock infrequently dealt in
but the rights to new issue from
which were recently available is
R. B. Davies Industries. The
lOs.-paids can be got at around
145., which means 245. when
fully-paid. The co. controls the
biggest builders’ - hardware
organisation in the Common-
wealth, and has a half-share in
a capillary copper - tubing
concern which will revolutionise
plumbing in connection with hot-
water systems. The co. is excep-
tionally well managed, and is
most enterprising. The shares
have considerable investment
possibilities, and give an
immediate yield of 6.5 p.c.
The paper companies have
been a market disappointment.
Australasian Paper shares are
now at 21s. 3d., Associated Paper
and Pulp at 255. 9d. Both are
feeling the setback in the paper
trade and the more competitive
prices that are being charged by
overseas manufacturers. How-
ever, there is some restriction on
imports, and merchants’ stocks
are gradually being worked
down.
N.Z. Forest Products
Looking back on a decade of
pioneering in the field of soft-
woods, pulp and coniniercial
paper, Maoriland’s industrial
giant, N.Z. Forest Products,
Ltd,/is able to breathe a little
easier today. Ahead are years of
consolidation on the upward
climb to larger profits and an
ultimate goal of steady divs.
The co. is entering on the final
year of big spending, after which
all manufacturing plants and
general activities will be consoli-
dated before planning for any
future leap. This is the digestive
phase. “Make haste slowly and
build up soundly,” is chairman
Henry’s new motto. If insignis
forests can’t be cut, at 20-30 years
of age they’ll still be healthy and
good assets at 50 years or more,
he says, and there’s no founda-
tion for the oft-expressed view
that these trees decay rapidly
after maturing rapidly.
Westminster Carpets
An unusually interesting enter-
prise, up till now privately con-
trolled, is about to become a
publicly-owned concern, with
Stock Exchange listing in
prospect. Westminster Carpets
Pty., Ltd., was formed on
November 29, 1946, with a paid
capital of £250,000. The
Keighleys, of Bradford Cotton
Mills, were largely interested in
it on the financial side, and it set
up a factory at Dandenong, in
Victoria, to make a rubber-based
carpet (of haircord appearance)
by a new process, mostly
mechanical, which eliminated
weaving. The carpet is extremely
durable, can be cut without a
fraying edge, and has been used
extensively in motor - cars.
Demand for domestic carpet now
exceeds the supply. The factory
has been working full time dur-
ing the recent recession in the
textile trade.
On March 19, 1951, capital
was doubled (to £500,000) by a
bonus issue financed from
revaluation of assets. Production
of carpet had commenced on
July 12, 1949, and for the year
to June 30, 1951, a 10 p.c. div.
was paid (calling for £50,000),
and the rate was repeated for the
year to June 30, 1952. An
interim of 6i p.c. (at the rate of
I2j p.c. p.a.) has been declared
in respect of the current year,
payable on July 31.
To convert the enterprise to a
public basis a. new holding co.,
Minster, Ltd., was formed on
December 24, 1952, with a
nominal capital of £1,000,000 in
10s. shares, and this new co. is
now offering to take over each
£1 share in Westminster for two
of its own 10s. shares, subject to
a sufficient acceptance by West-
minster shareholders.
The public appearance of this
enterprise will be interesting to
investors. The Westminster
product has revolutionary
features, and has aroused great
interest in the carpet trade. It is
well established as a particularly
suitable carpet for motor-cars,
and has great possibilities as an
attractive utility household
carpet. The labor cost in making
the carpet is comparatively low.


of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3* ins.,
68 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins,
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan [J{;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufactures Stationers and Printers
304-306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
CRIPPLING •
RHEUMATIC
PAINS
quickly eased with
Dolcin, the result of
five years, intensive
medical research has
brought relief to
thousands of suf-
ferers of complaints
within the Rheumatic
Groups. Dolcin gives
prompt and pro-
longed relief from the
painful symptoms of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis,
Lumbago, Fibrosltis, Gout, etc.
• DOLCIN is non-toxic.
• DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical
profession.
• 1,100,000,000 tablets have been ad-
ministered throughout the world.
• DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet
form.
• DOLCIN is obtainable from your
chemist.
DOLCIN
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
g
, . BUT HE
WEABB A
NEO-
BABBEBE
No Pads —
No Springs
f The KEO-BAKRBHE I
acts like a hand I
when placed flat I
upon the orifice. I
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BABBERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3h), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. .. 2/-
Yearly Subscription. L .. 22/6
ALL OVER THE WORLD
«
M
it
0
J
t&i&l
W:
\ i
SjP*
'-yzj*'
Good mornings begin with Gillette
The sons of the East all agree with the West
That super-sharp Blue Gillette Blades are the best.
And the satisfied Sultan advises his brother,
‘‘Use the razor and blade that are made for each other.”
BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
X^eMac.
5-BLADE PACKETS, 2/1
10-BLADE PACKETS. 4/2
20-BLADE DISPENSER, 8/4
The world’s best shaving value!
Blue Gillette Blades
N 8
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Will 1953 be a happier year
for us all? The signs are that,
given breathing-space and no
violent external upheavals, the
prospect is immeasurably better
than it was 12 months ago.
Certainly the New Year has
found the nation in very good
heart, even though the gladness
and quietude of mind that
accompany peace on earth are
still vague and distant.
Nineteen-fifty-two was not
spectacular for its innovations.
Nor can it be said to have
marked decisively the turning of
any corner. It was a year
of uncomfortable consolidation
and laborious transition —pro-
cesses which, to the more
restive critics, have been cautious
and painfully slow.
Apart from the fight to save
sterling and the high cost of
defence, the Queen’s Ministers
have had to face squarely a par-
ticularly tricky internal prob-
lem; to check self-consuming
inflation and, at the same time,
to avoid swinging too far in the
opposite direction of sudden de-
flation, with the cheerless conse-
quences of a slump and wide-
spread unemployment. This
course between the whirlpool
and the rocks is still no less pre-
carious, and it remains to be
seen whether skilful pilotage in
1953 will carry us into less-
troubled waters.
Surface Changes
The sad death in 1952 of a
well-loved King who had worn
himself out in the service of his
subjects deeply affected the
nation, which turned in sym-
pathy and expectation to the
young Queen. She, in a few
months, won all hearts by her
naturalness and quite indefinable -
regal aptness. It is a tremendous
comfort to the British people to
know that the Queen and her
Consort hold themselves so
responsibly.
For the first time in many
years serious local unemploy-
ment occurred in Lancashire
and other textile areas. Happily
this trouble did not extend
beyond short-time, except for
married women, and was
checked in good time.
A marked anti-Americanism
in certain quarters was a
feature of last year. Though not
widespread, the noisy faction of
the Left which identifies itself
with Mr. Bevan finds it a useful
political weapon for stirring up
discontent. And it is perhaps
unfortunate that American ser-
vicemen have so much more
money than their British
opposite-numbers.
The cost-of-living steadied in
the summer and has not risen
steeply since. The effects of
Mr. Butler’s Budget have not
been unduly severe. Yet there
is still, according to economists,
far too much money about and
too little incentive to save.
The Government has em-
barked upon a very strenuous
housing drive to which it im-
parts a strung shop-window
appeal. It has yet to tackle the
anomalous Rent Restriction
Acts, intended to safeguard the
tenant. Their effect is only to
promote a decay and a rapid
accumulation of slum property,
the rents being insufficient to
provide for repairs.
A less bureaucratic attitude
towards the liberty of the sub-
ject is to be noticed. Identity-
cards have gone, and many con-
trols, including the rationing of
tea, have been removed.
This rather monotone age is
not remarkable for the literary
or social “movements” of other
days. Changes in women’s
fashions are scarcely noticeable,
to the male at any rate. Men’s
fashions are somewhat less
prone to disturbance. There
must be some obscure signifi-
cance in the “Edwardian” cult of
last year. Stove-pipe trousers,
bowler-hats, colored waistcoats,
whiskers and beards have, with
London scene. Since the cult
does not extend beyond young
men, it can hardly be an expres-
sion of yearning for the good
old days, when even their
fathers were in swaddling-
clothes. Or is it?
Money and Money’s Worth
The major economic problem
of the year was undoubtedly the
correction of the sterling-area
balance-of-payments. During
the quarter ended December 31,
1951, the area lost $934,000,000
of gold and reserves—about one-
third of the total. This catas-
trophe may well have been the
cause of the Attlee Government’s
resignation. By the end of the
following June the deficit had
been reduced to $15,000,000.
Now there is a small monthly
surplus.
This achievement is, and may
be, short-lived, for the drastic
measures immediately necessary
have to some extent set the
future in jeopardy. Much —
almost everything, perhaps—de-
pends upon the outcome of the
Commonwealth Ministers’ Lon-*
don conferences and the possi-
bility of a dollar-sterling alli-
ance. Mr. Churchill certainly
seems to be working resolutely
towards this end. Meanwhile it
is reassuring to know that Lon-
don remains the co-ordinating
centre of the Commonwealth.
The outlook of Britain’s
nationalised industries is not
particularly healthy. Iron and
steel, with transport, are look-
ing on helplessly while a bitter
Parliamentary battle is being
fought over them.
Our own buried treasure, coal,
is rich and plentiful but unattain-
able in any sizeable quantity.
The present state of the industry
is dismal, and prospects for the
future depressing. A loss of
£5,000,000 was recorded in the
third quarter of 1952 and is due
to internal causes, such as holi-
days, stoppages, wages costs and
new, untrained workers. In
1952 over 1,300,000 tons was
lost through disputes, compared
wjth 802,000 tons in 1951.
It is also surprising to learn
that, in a nation which boasts
a “free” health service, at least
£750,000 a year is being paid in
premiums for group schemes
that cater for hospital treatment
outside the service.
Political
Even granted favorable con-
ditions and a Cabinet of giants,
the most optimistic Conservative
would not have backed his Gov-
ernment to grow in popularity
during its first year. That the
Government, for all the slight
majority, is apparently strong
and secure is due substantially
to the demerits of the Socialist
Opposition, which is riven and
debilitated by its own dissen-
sions. The proud solidarity is
no longer even a fa9ade. It is
the thinnest of veneers, laid on
hurriedly when the various fac-
tions panic at the imminent
danger of an overt split. Mr.
Attlee and his moderates
daren’t go too far in the direc-
tion of orthodoxy or they will
alienate the militant rank-and-
file, And the Bevanites daren’t
become too truculent or they’ll
find themselves commanding a
vast “paper” army but no
resources.
Largely at the instigation of a
few astute hot-heads of the Left,
Parliament has become a rough-
house. They have found that
bawling and bickering can be a
quite effective instrument of
delay to legislation.
Mr. Churchill is now more
hunched and frail in body, but
still master of the occasion,
whether it be a rough-and-
tumble in the House or a vexed
political decision. Paradoxically,
his leadership has been more
effective behind the scenes than
in the limelight. But it is ques-
tionable whether the electorate
wants an octogenarian Prime
Minister.
The outstanding figure in the
Cabinet is Mr. Butler, who has
all the qualities of the great
statesman except the superficial
ones. He is strongly backed as
a future P.M., and that with full
acknowledgment to Mr. Eden’s
great capacity. When most poli-
ticians are so much smaller than
the affairs they have to deal with
this is a reassuring fact. It may
well be that Mr. Eden would
prefer to stay at the Foreign
Office. Certainly he will be hard
to replace there.
The Communist party can
hardly be said to be rejoicing in
the New Year. Its executive is
still reeling from the after-
effects of the Prague trials. The
blow is hard, notwithstanding
the strenuous efforts of the
“Daily Worker” to play it down.
Communism has always tended
to appeal to race-conscious Jews
in times of persecution. Now
signs of anti-Semitism behind
the Curtain, deliberately pro-
voked for political ends, are
causing them to withdraw in
revulsion.


&
Established 1878
Acting as Executors of Wills,
Trustees of Estates, Attorney under Power, etc., for 74 years
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd,
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
TR 16.35
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Dalgety and Co., Ltd.
—Dividends >, To Re-
June, Profit.* Pref. Ord. Amount, serves. Reserves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1946.. 92,576 5 81 86,062 6,514 1,634,659
Unexplained reduction res., £90,385.. 1,544,310
1947. .161,825 5 91 92,125 69,700 1,614,010
Unexplained addition reserves, £918.. 1,614,928
1948. .221,267 5 91 92,125 129,142 1,744,070
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1949. .219,145 5 9,1 92,125 127.020 1,967.042
Exchange fluctuation, £9901.. .. 1,957,141
Adj. book-value investment, £22,125 1,935,016
1950. .403,391 5 12 112,750 290,641 2,225,657
Cost redemption deb. stock, £137,291 2,088,366
Adj. book-value investment, £4865 .. 2,083,501
1951. .621,589 5 14 123,688 497,851 2,581,352
Less adjustments, £45,803 net .. 2,535,549
1952. .3*48,582 5 14 123,375 225,207 2,760,756
* After deducting contribution to staff fund and de-
ducting English income-tax on divs. The rate p.c.
of dividend shown is the gross rate, but the amount
is net.
The business kept on expanding, the
sharp contraction of £272,957 (43.9 p.c.)
in last term’s net earnings being due
chiefly to the fall in wool prices from
the dizzy and damaging peaks of 1951
and partly to the perennial rise in the
cost of conducting the big and widespread
undertaking. It is the world’s premier
woolbroking house, and does a very ex-
tensive pastoral-finance, shipping and
other agency and merchandising business
as well. Activities spread throughout
Australia (where over half the capital is
invested) and New Zealand and to East
Africa, where merchandising and the
financing of farmers are the principal
source of earnings.
The cheque for Australia’s wool clip
last season, although little more than half
the size of the previous year’s, was second-
biggest in the history of the trade:
/ ——Australian r New Zealand
Bales. Amount. Bales. Amount.
’4B-49..3^244,231 194,792,875 869,226 31,325.858
’49-50..3,597,940 286,919,294 911.572 48,163.091
’5O-51..3,549,998 636,156,480 613,124 92,583,729
’5l-52..3,413,805 308,107,658 1,231,577 71,107,413
The New Zealand figures were bumped
up by a carry-over of some 300,000 bales
from the previous season, due to the dock
strike. In Australia the co. handled
695,441 bales last term as against 613,200
bales for the previous year. The mer-
chandising, shipping, livestock and land-
sales, insurance and other departments
all report satisfactory net results, though
mostly at reduced levels.
After making an unspecified provision
for bad and doubtful debts, paying in-
terest (£82,500, down £33,892) on the
£2,000,000 of debenture debt, allowing
£310,644 (down £31,144) for depreciation,
£917,127 (down £598,605) for taxation
and sending £lOO,OOO (up £50,000) to
staff funds, the board put net earnings at
£348,582, of which the pref. div. called
for £13,125. The remaining £335,457 was
equal to 22.3 p.c. on the £1,500,000 of
ord. capital as against 40.5, 25.9, 13.7,
13.8 and 9.8 p.c. back to 1947. That
leaves out of the reckoning a loss of
£74,641 on sale of securities, mainly
Commonwealth bonds, and £17,908 by
which the remaining holding of securities
was written down. Of the £92,549 in-
volved, £45,803 was charged against
reserves and £46,746 against the year’s
interest receipts. The div. was kept at
14 p.c., of which 4 p.c. is labelled bonus.
The 14 p.c., however, is subject to U.K.
income tax of 9s. 6d. in the £l, thus
reducing the net rate to 7.32 p.c. (stg.),
equal to 9.15 p.c. in Australian currency
at the current rate of exchange.
The year’s profit, plus the debenture
interest, was equal to approximately
7 p.c. on the share and debenture capital
and reserves combined. So the deben-
tures, which are costing on the average
4,1 p.c., and the pref. capital are earning
a good deal more than their keep, and
are therefore very helpful to the ords.
This and other things, including the com-
fortable margin between last term’s earn-
ings and distributions and the satisfac-
tory position in the wool trade, give the
14 p.c. a comfortable look, though present
disturbed conditions in East Africa are
bound to react upon the co.’s earnings
there.
Economic and other developments
brought big movements in balance-sheet
figures, which disclose a sound financial
structure:
Consolidated Figures.
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital* .. £2,000,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Debentures . . 2,945,755 2,000,000 2,000,000
Current liabilities 10,767,286 17,399,970 12,091,955
Tax reserve . . 791,870 1,538,924 1.687,947
Interest of outsiders 7,901 7,503 8,189
Provident fund .. 1,118,966 1,151,296 1,358,317
Final dividend .. 77,000 85,313 85,313
Freehold, etc. . . 1,934.888 2,222,296 2,675,535
Advances . . .. 3,329,418 6,894,503 7,162,712
Other debtors . . 3,330,256 5,541,076 4,124,101
Merchandise .. 2,733,219 3,003,412 4,999,484
Cash & investments 8,606,654 9,103,071 3,030,645
* Includes £500,000 5 p.c. pxefs.
To meet the contraction of £5,308,015 in
current liabilities —due largely to with-
drawal of surplus funds by clients —carry
an extra £1,996,072 of stocks, add
£268,209 to advances and £453,239 to
freeholds, etc., the co. drew upon cash
and investments for £6,072,426 net and
reduced other debtors’ balances by
£1,416,975.
The immediate outlook for raw wool
is a bright one. For the first half of
the current season the Australian clip
realised £180,434,860, or £28,668,900
more than for the corresponding portion
of the previous season. The world’s textile
trade is beginning to look up again, and
mill stocks are not heavy. In the Argen-
tine, however, large stocks of cross-
bred woof have piled up, and much will
depend upon the policy adopted in selling
them. To what extent synthetic fibres are
likely to affect demand for raw wool in
the long-run is anybody’s guess at the
moment. Though a real one, the threat
might not be so great as thought in some
quarters at the moment, and is certainly
not being ignored by the wool trade. It
puts the immediate emphasis on the need
to curb costs.
At 12s. (10s. a couple of months ago)
the co.’s £1 shares paid to ss. each give
an immediate return of 3.8 p.c.-in Aus-
tralian currency on the basis of last term’s
distribution, and subject to adjustment in
connection with double taxation. Net
tangible cover is 14s. 2d. (stg.) a share.
The well-protected prefs. seldom appear
on the Australian market.
Ampol Petroleum, Ltd.
Ampol & Subsidiaries.
, Dividends Nominal
Sept. Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1948 .. 164,444 6 7J 76,796 228.105
Premiums on new shares, £61,616 \ 2 go 163
Added reserves, £442 .. .. ) ’
1949 . . 181,881 6 8 82,459 389,585
Cost cancellation contract, £24,000 365,585
W/off oil exploration, £25,000 .. 340,585
Share premiums, £157,100 .. 497,685
1950 .. 190,594 6 81 104,995 583.284
Overprovided taxes, £20,187 .. 603,471
1951 . . 252,877 6 91 149,465 706,883
Sundry additions, £97,224 . . 804,107
Share premiums, £215,000. . . . 1,019,107
1952 . . 304,286 6 10 195,629 1,127,764
* Subject to intangibles, £261,460.
It was an eventful and successful though
difficult year, the main features of which
were continued expansion and strength-
ening of the undertaking, purchase of
a new 18,000-ton oil-tanker at a cost of
£1,350,000, preparations to meet the in-
tensive competition which looms ahead
in the trade, and separation of oil-pros-
pecting activities —they have been en-
hanced by introduction of ,a senior and
powerful partner —from the trading side
of the business.
At the start, 17 years ago, the co. had
a hard fight to get a footing. Share-
holders got a maiden 7.8 p.c. m 19 ,
followed by annual distributions avei ag-
ing 7.4 p.c. to the close of last accounts.
Turnover bounded along following ( ;
abolition of petrol-rationing (m whicn
the co. took a prominent part), early in
1950, (2) increase in the number oi
petrol-consuming vehicles in use, and (31
widening of the field of operations, whicn
was extended to South Australia toward
the close of accounts in 1950 and to
Brisbane and southern Queensland early
in 1953. It all meant heavy capital out-
lay on increased storage-capacity at a
string of seaboard terminals and on city
and country distributing facilities, in-
cluding electric kerbside pumps, well
as carrying more stocks and book-debts
To help meet the outlay, including an
initial payment (£521,424) on the new
tanker, 150,000 £1 6 p.c. prefs and
2,000,000 ss. ords. were issued, all at a
premium of 2s, each, early in 1952.
Last term turnover (£9,969,921) took a
leap of £1,974,592 (24.7 p.c.), but profit-
margins narrowed, owing to pressure of
landed and distributing costs against a
less buoyant ceiling of controlled selling-
prices, and for a while no profit was
earned from sales of petroleum, etc. The
chartered tankers were again the main
source of profit, the chairman says. One
charter ran out in March last —the vessel
was returned to its owners —and the other
expires in March next. Two new charters
have been arranged, one for a year from
February, 1953, and the other for five
years commencing during the first half
of 1954. The co.’s own new tanker is
expected to be on the run by mid-1953.
After allowing £207,323 (down £7110)
for depreciation, £311,250 (up £134,988)
for taxation and sending £36,871 (up
£12,947) to the staff fund, net earnings
were £51,409 better at £304,286. That
was enough to pay a full year’s pref. div.
and show 14.5 p.c. on ord. capital as it
now stands, compared with 17.7, 16.7,
20 and 18.1 p.c. back to 1948. The div.
was lifted half a point, making it 10 p.c.,
leaving £108,657 for reserves, which also
benefited by £215,000 of share premiums
and £97,224 of sundry additions, mainly
on account of shares in the new pros-
pecting' co. The £1,127,764 of reserves
is subject to £261,460 of intangibles.
The big overseas oil cos. propose to
spend over £80,000,000 in establishing
local refineries by 1956, and some of
them have already set-up their own one-
brand service-stations, by absorptions
and otherwise. That means loss of re-
presentation at these stations by Aus-
tralian distributing cos., which have now
formed an independent group to establish
and support multiple-service-stations.
Ampol has bought a number of sites on
which new stations are to be erected, and,
to meet the capital outlay, has arranged
for a long-term unsecured loan from an
overseas co. at 1 p.c. p.a. interest, and
repayable by 30 annual instalments be-
ginning in 1963. The first £227,500 of
the money has been received, and the
balance is to be drawn over the next
three or four years. Neither the total
amount of the loan nor the name of the
lender are mentioned; but Ampol is
already linked with California Texas Oil
(U.S.), which is to erect a £25,000,000
refinery at Botany Bay (N.S.W.).
A new co., West Australian Petroleum
Pty.—California Texas Oil owns 80 p.c.
and Ampol 20 p.c. (343,452 £1 shares,
all but 4000 of which are fully paid) of
the share capital—has taken over the
costly oil-prospecting activities com-
menced by Ampol in Westralia about
three years ago. Over £1,400,000 has
already been spent on this venture, and
it is planned to spend a further £1,000,000
during 1953. Ampol’s holding is to be
passed to a new subsidiary, Ampol Ex-
ploration, Ltd., which will presently offer
1,200,000 of its ss. shares, firstly to those
on Ampol’s register.
The next table shows how the under-
taking is financed:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952. '
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,250,000 1,694,170 1,830,000 2,480,000
Long-term
loan . . 227,500
S“SsSSI 664>787 4 ’ lB7 * 547 1>947 - 445
Tax-provision 179,700 158,000 253,000 387,767
Final divs. 34,501 45,688 66.500 100,650
Freeholds,
etc.* . . 297,453 370,457 380,585 672,230
Plant, etc... 578,650 751,131 1,083,497 2,043.152
Stocks .. 643,880 1,169,307 1,533.503 1,989,762
De etc. rS ’ Ca ! h ’ 450,862 593,574 784,885 1,304,522
Intangibles 261,460 261.460 , 261,460 201,460
* Includes country storage terminals.
The year’s £650,000 of fresh share capital
and £215,000 of share premiums, to-
gether with the £227,500 raised on long-
term and an extra £759,898 from the bank
and other creditors, were used to add
£291,645 to freeholds, etc., £959,655 to
plant, etc., £456,259 to stocks and £519,637
to book-debts.
No hint is given as to whether the
overseas loan will cover the balance
owing on the tanker (£828,000-odd), or
whether shareholders are likely to be
asked for more at an early date. A
strong demand for petroleum and other
products continues, selling-prices were in-
creased in October last, and the tankers
are again expected to earn good profits.
The price of the co.’s f.-p. ss. ords.,
which fluctuated between 9s. Bd. and
6s. Bd. during 1952, stood at 9s. last
week, giving a return of 5.5 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 21s.
yield 5.7 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is £5 2s, lid. prefs, and 7s. 4d.
ords.
Tutt Bryant, Ltd.
and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. , Ord. , serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
5 p.c.
.Brought forward, £62,578 .. .. 62,578
Private eo. tax 1946 & 1947, £53,390.. 9.188
1948.. 52,649 *54,247 7,590
Share premiums, £22,500 .. .. 30,090
1949. .101,446 1875 10 p.c. = 17,684 81,887 111.977
1950. .185,145 5781 15 „ ~ 87,969 141,395 253,372
1951. .207,603 7500 15 „ „ 73,828- 126,275 379,647
1952. .212,209 7500 10 ~ „ 75,937 128,772 508.419
* Includes £50,000 divs. paid before conversion to
public co. and £4247, equal 10 p.c., thereafter.
t Subject to intangibles, etc., £29,985.
One of the largest manufacturers of
heavy-duty construction and ancillary
equipment in the country, this 14-year-old
has now run into the first really difficult
period of trading during its history. The
brilliant performances of recent years
cannot, therefore, be taken as a reliable
guide to the future. The co. holds 35 or
more American and British agencies
covering machinery for earth-moving,
quarrying and open-cut mining, road-
construction and maintenance, sawmilling
and logging, materials-handling, railway-
construction and drilling, etc. The main
works are at Rydalmere, near Sydney,
and there are subsidiaries in all the main-
land States which attend to assembly, dis-
tribution and maintenance.
The public became interested in 1948,
since when paid capital has advanced
from £150,000 to £909,375, of which
150,000 now carries a cumulative 5 p.c.,
divs. have averaged 12.2 p.c., with wide
margins, and £508,419 of reserves have
beeil accumulated. Helped by inflationary
conditions and heavy Government spend-
ing, turnover bounded along in this way:
1047 . . . . £959,900
1948 . . . . 1,380,300
1949 .. .. 2,061,124
1960 . . . . £3,376,766
1951 . . . . 4,410,417
1952 .. .. 5,235,776
The improvement of £825,359 (18.7 p.c.)
in last term’s figure belonged to the first
half of the period. Toward and since
the close of accounts there has been
sharp contraction in demand, and there-
fore in sales.
Although the year’s wage bill, etc.
(£687,061), was 25.5 p.c. heavier, the co
was able to show net profit £4606 better
at £212,209. That was after allowing
£15,894 (down £21,976) for depreciation,
£151,247 (down £16,294) for taxation, and
valuing stocks “in accordance with the
present market.” The £212,209 was


IT’S COMING
THE NEW
“PHENOVIS”
WORM REMEDY
Divorce Notic
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM WARWICK AGNEW for-
merly of 7 Tobin Avenue Northcote in
the State of Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE
that VERONICA ALOYSIA AGNEW has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4998 of
1952 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse during three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 19th February 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSIEURS E. R. TRACEY
& COMPANY, Solicitors, of 81 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
fun/#?
The Metropolitan Deferred Assurance Plan enables you
to pay minimum premiums for your child, and on his
majority, he can carry on the policy ... an inducement
to thrift and a protection for his future years. Ask for
Table “Q.”
Today’s Protection —Tomorrow’s Security
Australian Metropolitan
Life Assurance Co. Ltd.
HUNTER & BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
lueorporattd In Queensland, 1893.
"SIRIUS'
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
£44/10/-
+ 12j|% sales tax
*
BW 8631.
UCAS
ORIGINAL EQUIPMENT
ON BRITISH CARS
and guaranteed 6 months
Every famous British car is fitted with starting
lighting and ignition equipment manufactured by Lucas.
British car makers recommend that you replace
Lucas with Lucas. Only in this way can satisfactory
performance be guaranteed.
FOR GENUINE SATISFACTION
insist on
M
f enu/ne Spare Parte
. . . - . \XXXX
n
*
s
V
w
x^
w
LUCAS BATTERIES
Painstaking inspection guarantees uniform quality in Lucas car and truck Batteries.
They have 18 months Insured Life.
BRlSBANE —Elphinstones Ltd., Ann St. • SYDNEY —Bennett and Wood Pty. Ltd.,
13-23 Wentworth Av. • MELBOURNE —Starting Lighting Ignition Pty. Ltd., 68-78
Sturt St., Sth. Melbourne • ADELAIDE —Hannan Bros. Ltd., 63 Franklin St.
PERTH —Joseph Lucas (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 627-639 Wellington St.
HOBART— W. A. Richards, 56 Collins St.
LAUNCESTON— H. C. Thompson and Co., 97 Charles St.
■JOSEPH LUCAS (AUST.) PTY. LTD..
enough to pay the prefs. their
5 p.c. and show a satisfactory
26.9 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 40.6, 70.8 and 56.3 p.c.
for the three preceding years.
Owing to the change in outlook
and the need to conserve the
co.’s own resources, the div. was
lowered from 15 p.c. to 10 p.c.,
leaving £128,772, or over 60 p.c.
of the year’s net earnings, to
plough back into the business.
The falling-off of demand,
etc., toward the close of ac-
counts shows up in a big addi-
tion of £1,084,871 net in stocks
and a contraction of £262,773 in
book-debts;
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital. £487,500 £909,375 £909,875
Mortgages . __ 56.000
Overdraft . 400,314 643,037 1,126,075
Sundry credi-
tors . 392,449 454,226 714,064
Tax provision 139,161 168,059 288.649
Staff fund . 12,830 14,350 19,294
Pinal divs.. 24,844 48,047 41,719
Freeholds . 106,949 166,641 } oao
Plant . 58,907 98,663 J 474,863
Shares sub-
sidiaries . 30,761 75,178 50,512
Stock . 1,110,862 1,413,748 2,498,619
Book debts. 387,970 847,003 584,230
Cash, etc. 12,021 12,508 25,386
Intangibles,
etc. . . 3,000 3,000 29,985
To finance the accumulation of
stocks and add £209,559 to the
book-value of fixed assets, the
co. went to its bankers for an
extra £483,038, increased the
amount coming to sundry credi-
tors by £259,838 and raised
£56,000 on mortgage. The slip
of £83,016 in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£862,524) was due
entirely to expenditure on fixed
assets. Still, when the books
closed there was 265. 9d. of out-
side money in the business for
every pound of shareholders’
funds.
On the change in outlook the
chairman has this to say:
Since the end of the financial
year there have been stringent
limitations placed upon expendi-
ture for public works. Several
national projects have been closed
down, whilst many others are
proceeding at a greatly retarded
rate.. . .Carrying a crippling
load of taxation, industry, whether
it be primary or secondary, has
decided to restrict its activities
to the barest essentials at the
present time. Many contracting
organisations, therefore, have
been faced with cancelled con-
tracts and a bleak and uncertain
future... .Your directors, how-
ever, feel that conditions will
change gradually, and are opti-
mistic regarding the future.
The co. is well equipped to get
its full share of whatever busi-
ness offers, but margins promise
to be narrower than of recent
years. Because of this and the
obvious need to work down
stocks and reduce the overdraft,
there are doubts about mainten-
ance of the 10 p.c. div., notwith-
standing the wide margin be-
tween last term’s net earnings
and distributions.
The price of the f.-p. £1 ords.,
which fluctuated between 625. 6d.
and 295. during 1952, stood at
325. last week, giving a return
of 6.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis, or 5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. dis-
tribution. The prefs at 16s. yield
6.2 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£9 ss. prefs. and 325. 7d. ords.
Lake View and Star
According to cable advice, this
London-controlled co., which is
the biggest gold-producer on the
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile (W.A.),
and a very efficient one, too,
netted £151,975 (down £44,824)
for the year to June 30 last.
That was after allowing for de-
preciation and taxation and de-
spite the benefit of a moderate
lift (about 5 p.c.) in the average
selling-price of the metal, owing
to the premium on open-market
sales. The £151,795 was approxi-
mately 27.5 p.c. on capital
(£560,000 in f.-p. 4s. shares) as
against 35.1 p.c. for the previous
term. The div. was maintained
at a nominal 2s. 6d. per share
p.c.), subject to U.K.
income-tax of 9s. 6d. in the £,
which reduced the net rate to
32.8 p.c. (stg.), equal to 41 p.c.
in Australian currency at the
current rate of exchange.
Ore reserves at July 1, 1952,
were estimated at 3,723,700 tons
(down 376,700 tons), averaging
4.B2dwt. The drop in both
profit and ore reserves was due
almost entirely to a rise of ss. 9d.
per ton of ore milled in working
costs, which averaged 40s. lid.
per ton. This necessitated elimi-
nation of over 342,000 tons of
marginal-grade ore as now un-
payable. In the previous year
112,000 tons ore had to be
eliminated for similar reasons,
making the total thus thrown into
the discard over the last two
years 454,000 tons.
And with costs as they are the
Porphyry goldmine—about 90
miles n.-e. of Kalgoorlie, and in
which the co. has a two-thirds
interest —is on a care-and-main-
tenance basis. Here drilling had
disclosed a flat-lying ore-body
containing over 750,000 tons of
4dwt. ore.
The effect upon the market for
Lake View scrip has been a
steady decline from 295. to 225.
(Aust.) over the last two years.
The “Free” Gold Market
Figures just released by the
Australian Gold Producers’ As-
sociation reveal the steady de-
cline that has occurred in the
price of gold sold on the open,
or “free,” market since the
change in attitude of the Inter-
national Monetary Fund towards
the gold-premium traffic a year
or so ago. From Dec. 7, 1951,
to Sept. 30, 1952, the association,
which represents 579 producers
throughout the Commonwealth,
sold 867,4850 z. fine gold for
32,114,266 U.S. dollars, which
was 1,750,000-odd dollars more
than would have been received
at the standard price of 35 dol-
lars a fine ounce. The markets
in which the metal was sold are
not mentioned.
Highest price received per
ounce was 38,375 dollars and
lowest 36.20 dollars, the average
being 37.02 dollars, which is
21s. 5.9 d. above the Australian
standard price of £l5 9s. lOd. a |
fine ounce. Selling costs averaged
8.87 d. an ounce, of which 7.22 d.
represented direct costs of pro-
cessing and handling. Because
the metal can now be sold with-
out first processing to 22 carat,
realisation costs are expected to
be reduced a little.
Main explanation of the reces-
sion in price lies in two basic
changes in the supply-demand
position. The first is switching
to the “free” market of all but
a relatively modest proportion of
the world output of new gold.
This, together with the taking of
gold from official sources for
disposal at premium prices by
some non-producing countries,
swelled the amount of the yellow
metal reaching the “free” market.
The second has been abatement
of fears of an early outbreak of
a third world war, thus reducing
the pressure of demand on this
account. Current demand for
hoarding appears, for the most
part, to be a counter against
possible currency devaluations
and/or the belief that in the
long-run there is a good chance
of a rise in the official dollar
price of gold.
Australia recently supported
South Africa in its request for a
lift in the official dollar price of
gold, which, besides its direct and
immediate benefit to producers,
especially those working mar-
ginal-grade deposits, would also
be a helpful contribution toward
enabling the British Common-
wealth to stand on its own feet
so far as dollar balances are con-
cerned. But American authori-
ties have turned a deaf ear to the
request, mainly on the grounds
of probable inflationary effects
upon the U.S. economy.


Wo men's Letters
SYDNEY
Quite a number of distinguished people
attended the first-night of the fairy opera
“Hansel and Gretel,” which has been
produced at the Conservatorium in aid
of the Extension Appeal of the N.S.W.
Home for Incurables. Lady Anderson,
the president of the opera-committee, wel-
comed the official visitors and introduced
them after the performance to the guest-
of-honor, the Hon. K. W. Street, Chief
Justice of N.S.W. and president of the
appeal. Among those who attended were
the Consul-General for Switzerland and
Mrs. Hedinger, the Consul-General for
U.S.A. and Mrs. Potter, the Acting Con-
sul-General for Greece and Mrs. Gooma,
the Consul for Lebanon, Mr. Ghorra,
Mr. and Mrs, Harald Bowden, Mr. and
Mrs. Eugene Goossens, Dr. and Mrs.
Edgar Bainton, Matron Saveli, Mrs. J.
W. Eaton, Director of Education Dr.
H. D. Wyndham and Mrs. Wyndham, Dr.
and Mrs. C. M. Guiney, Mr. H. Tinkler
and Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Davis.
☆ ☆ ☆
“All My Sons,” the Metropolitan’s
new play by American Arthur Miller, is
one of the most thought-provoking pieces
they have played of late. It deals with
a manufacturer who, during the war, sent
out defective aeroplanes which caused
the death of 21 airmen, and his unadmitted
fear is that his own son was one of the
victims. At the end, however, he comes
to realise that the 21 boys were all his
sons, and the weight of guilt causes his
death. Although of tragic import, the
play is not depressing but tends rather to
lift the spirits with its understanding of
human weakness and aspiration.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sydney had an opportunity to hear
Kenneth Neate (the operatic tenor whose
earlier concerts were cancelled because
of a relaxed throat) at the concert in
aid of the National Opera of Australia,
when all the artists, including Mr. Neate,
gave their services free. Mr. and Mrs.
Erik Langker were present, Mrs. Langker
wearing a lime-green chiffon dress. Mrs.
C. T. Lorenz wore gold brocade. Among
those helping with programme-selling,
seat-finding, etc., were Mrs. M. Fountain,
Mrs. D. Scott and Mrs. K. G. Gloster.
Although there was no “House Full” sign,
the Town Hall was well filled with a most
enthusiastic audience, which particularly
enjoyed the item by the Police Choir with
Kenneth Neate. Mr. Neate was once a
member of this choir before he left for
the continent.
tr ☆ ☆
Is it the transport or is it the weather?
At a recent committee-meeting where
there were 22 people present* 17 were
nearly 20 minutes late. It was lucky that
the executive were so patient or the late-
comers might have found that the meet-
ing had been postponed.
☆' ☆ ☆
Likely to join the basic cook-books on
the kitchen-shelf is Pressure Cooking for
the Modern Home, by Helen M. Cox,
published by Whitcombe and Tombs.
Starting with information about the pres-
sure-cooker, its use and care (invaluable
for a beginner), it gives such precise in-
structions for each recipe (cooking-time,
number of servings, etc.) that it inevitably
inspires confidence. Almost all the
standard dishes are included, as well as a
few “specials,” such as chicken-livers with
mushrooms. The chapters on jam-making
and preserving seem to bring these arts
within the capacity of all. Printed clearly
on sturdy paper and pleasantly adorned
with pencil-sketches, it can be thoroughly
recommended.
☆ * *
One of the most practical means of
fostering a love of the theatre among
Australians is the publication “Drama and
the School,” put out by Whitehall Pro-
ductions about twice a year. Circulating
through the public schools (the Depart-
ment of Education takes at least 5000 of
each issue) and many of the private
and denominational schools, “Drama and
the School” prints in entirety the best
plays from just about all over the world.
Typical of the plays alr'eady -printed are
Moliere’s “Imaginary Invalid,” “The Land
of Heart’s Desire,” by W. B. Yeats,
“Campbell of Kilmohr,” by J. A.
Ferguson, “Robin Hood and the Pedlar/’
by John Drinkwater, and “Brother Wolf,”
by Laurence Housman.
The idea of “Drama and the School”
came originally from Miss Kathleen
Robinson, one of the directors of White-
hall Productions, and it still remains one
of her closest interests. It was thought
at first that it would be impossible to
clear the copyright of so many modern
plays, but the editor, Mrs. Catherine
Fenton, says that the publishers \ have
established very good relations with copy-
right holders and meet with little difficulty.
“Drama and the School” is sold for 2s.
a copy and goes to schools, not only in
N.S.W., but also in Victoria, Perth and
North Queensland. There have been
seven issues of which the latest is to
go into a second edition.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dr. Joyce Ford, M. 8., B.Sc., the
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Edgar Ford,
of Dulwich Hill, has announced her en-
gagement to Dr. John Bullock, son of
Dr. and Mrs. Howard Bullock, of Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney. John is well known
as an athlete, and was captain of the
Sydney University Athletic team. Photo
by Hugh Spencer.
☆ ☆ ☆
The two girls, Nina and Eve Martin,
who have organised the “Home and
Housewives” Exhibition at the Town Hall,
describe themselves as “Australian
Pommies,” Born in England themselves,
their father and grandfather are Aus-
tralians—“ The McCraith Martins, of
Ashfield,” said Nina. Eve and Nina have
been out here for only two years. They
say they have had lots of experience with
this type of show in England, but this is
their first venture here.
Their exhibition is based on a similar
one they organised at the Festival of
Britain. It has the usual array of refriger-
ators, washing-machines, etc., on show,
but it is i the competition-and-free-gift
technique which lends it its particular air
of excitement. Early-birds to the show
received, not a worm but a bottle of
champagne and a side of pork. Washing-
powder and pounds of butter are handed
out freely. Headache-powders rain on
the crowd like the housewives’ symbol of
manna from heaven. Fathers of the
babies with the most whimsical faces
receive bottles of champagne. House-
wives with the loveliest legs and those
with the longest hair are laden with gifts.
Even those who think they have the
loveliest legs (and they are many and
varied) get a packet of soap-powder.
“It’s as good as a circus,” said an on-
looker to this Letter, and that’s just what
it’s like. Another way in which it differs
from most other shows of the sort is that
it charges 2s. sd. for admission. This,
however, seems in no way to dampen
spirits or reduce attendance.
☆ ☆ ☆
Things one would like to see more of
include the habit of curtsying among
New Australian children. Three little
Dutch girls on Nielsen Park beach had
onlookers fascinated the other day by
the charming way they “bobbed” when
greeting their elders. Even after they had
run up out of the water, all wet and
breathless, their little curtsy to friends
was quite delightful. No doubt they’ll
be laughed out of the habit by their
schoolfellows before long, but it seems a
pity.
MIELIB'OUCNIE
Two interesting women, back home '‘]
the Oronsay, are Kathleen Deasey
barrister Joan Rosanove.
Kathleen spent 12 months of her two
and a half years abroad at the ■
An M.A. (Cantab.), she did aP oSt J ad “
ate course in French specially arranged
for foreigners. In Paris, Kathleen i ‘
Reid Hall, a hostel for students and
graduates on holiday, finance
America and established by America
women. It is a lovely 18th-century house
at Montparnasse in the Latin Quart .
While there she heard talks from
famous French people, including actor
Jean Louis Barrault; of “La Ronde
fame, author Andre Maurois and M.
Andre Siegfried, a leading member of the
School of Political Science. At tne
Thanksgiving dinner she met the guest-or-
honor —Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt.
London Kathleen accompanied Lady
Dugan to the reception at the Cruildnau,
held during the Prime Ministers’ economic
conference.
Mrs. Rosanove went abroad specially
to attend, as Australian delegate, a board-
of-directors’ meeting of the Business and
Professional Wopaen’s Clubs, held in New
York, at which 20 countries were repre-
sented. Highlight was the meeting
with President Truman arranged by me
Washington branch of the club. Dele-
gates, flown to Washington in a specially-
chartered plant, lunched with women
members of Congress and women
Senators. Mrs. Rosanove was invited to
address a provincial meeting of the
American Bar Association at Yellowstone
Park, and for her subject chose “The Aus-
tralian Practising Lawyer.” She met a
number of women judges in the U.S.,
and another, Judge Florence Allen, in
Madrid. Judge Allen is on the U.S.
Federal Supreme Court Bench. She also
met Margaret Hyndham, Q.C., picked as
Canada’s woman of the year.
☆ ☆ ☆ .
This picture of Mrs. Michael Parker
was taken by her husband while they were
on holiday in England last year. Photo-
graphy-minded hubby is Lieutenant-Com-
mander Michael Parker, private secre-
tary to the Duke of Edinburgh. Mrs.
Parker, with children Anthony and Julie,
accompanied Michael to Australia when
he visited his parents, Captain and Mrs.
C. A. Parker, of East Kew. Mrs. Parker
is a Scot, though often taken for an Irish-
woman —most attractive, slim and petite,
with eyes poets rave about. She is often
hostess to the Duke of Edinburgh when
he pops in informally, and she hopes to
come out again next year if her husband
attends the Duke on the Royal Tour.
☆ ☆ *
Red Cross, Victorian Division, will be
temporarily without chairman Colonel
Allan Spowers; he leaves in April by
plane for England, to attend the wedding
of his son, Captain Bill Spowers, with
Antonia Aked. Mrs. Spowers leaves in
the Strathnaver next month and will meet
Colonel Spowers in London, where they
will stay in their son’s flat in Eton-place.
The wedding is set for St. Margaret’s,
Westminster, and the reception at
Claridge’s.
☆ ☆ ☆
Three-hundred guests were at the re-
ception given by the Minister for Civil
Aviation (Mr. Anthony), at the Hotel
Federal to meet delegates to the Inter-
national Civil Aviation Organisation
regional conference. Assisting in a greet-
ing capacity, Air-Marshal R. Williams
and Mrs. Williams, the latter very smart
in a frock of black faille with a portrait
neckline. Baskets of carved ice filled with
I lowers and gladioli in all colorful shades
vere used for decorations.
Wearing saris were Mrs. S. A. Khan,
from Pakistan, and Mrs. S. Kamal, whose
husband, Squadron-Leader Kamal, is air-
adviser to the High Commissioner for
Pakistan in Australia.
☆ ☆ ☆
American visitors Mr. and Mrs. Alfred
Daff were guests-of-honor at a dance
given by the George Griffiths in their
Toorak home. The swimming-pool was
floodlit, and the garden, where upwards
of 120 guests danced, was gay with
colored fairy-lights. Mrs. Griffith re-
ceived her guests in a slim, strapless gown
of grey and buttercup-yellow sequins
with an overskirt of grey and yellow tulle.
Mrs. Daff’s ballerina frock of white
organdie had cornflower-blue flowers
appliqued on the strapless bodice, and
down one side of the full skirt, which
opened to show a pleated panel in the
underskirt. Carol Griffith helped with
the entertaining in a ballerina frock of
paper-cotton in white, spotted in gold
and black. The bodice featured a halter-
neckline, with a very full skirt.
☆ ☆ ☆
Gerald Patterson (president of the Inter-
national Lawn Tennis Association of
Australia) and his wife received the
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, and Lady
Brooks when they arrived at Cliff House,
Mt. Eliza, for a luncheon-party followed
by afternoon-tea and tennis. Cliff House
is the home of Sir Norman and Lady
Brookes. Other guests were international
tennis-players in this city for the Aus-
tralian championships—Vic Seixas and
his wife, Ham Richardson, Straight
Clark, Fausto Gardini, Maureen Con-
nolly and Julie Sampson. U.S. Consul-
General Henry Stebbins and Mrs. Steb-
bins were enjoying the sunshine and
tennis, as were Italian Consul Dr. L.
Dainelli and H. A. Pitt, president of the
L.T.A.
☆ <r ☆
Many of the guests at the marriage
of Jill Manifold and Richard Minifie
motored from town to St, James Church,
Mortlake. The* bride is the second
daughter of Mr. E. W. Manifold, of
Mondilibi, Mortlake, and the late Mrs.
Manifold; the bridegroom, the son of
Mr, and Mrs. R. P. Minifie, of Monara-
road, Kooyong.
Jill selected a white brocaded satin,
woven with a silver thread. The long-
sleeved, fitted bodice was allied to a
bouffant skirt, extending to a train, which
was misted with a long tulle veil, held
in place with a pearl headdress. She
carried a sheaf of Christmas-lilies. There
were three attend ants—fhe bride’s younger
sister Belinda, and the bridegroom’s twin
sisters, Deborah and Prudence. Their
white nylon frocks were, made over an
aqua-tinted foundation and their white
tulle picture-hats had frothy edges to
the brim and narrow bands of aqua
velvet round the crown, tying in bows at
the back.
The bride’s father and bridegroom’s
parents received 300 guests at Stony Point,
the Darlington home of Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Jamieson.
☆ jSt *
Sheila Scottar (Mrs. Alan Maclntyre),
recently returned from a short trip to
Honolulu, has jpined the fashion staff
of George’s, of Collins-street. Sheila
held important posts of this type
in England, before she made her home
in this city. To introduce her, Reta
Findlay, of George’s, gave a very pleasant
informal cocktail-party ; Reta wearing a
full-skirted cinnamon-brown paper-shan-
tung frock with the bodice featuring the
new dropped-shoulder-line and very full
sleeves. Sheila’s unusual white linen suit
I featured narrow black stripes and was
worn with a black silk blouse with the
new Chinese neckline. Pale-cream paper-
shantung fashioned the pleated frock Ruth
Lawson wore, with a large coral-pmlc
chiffon scarf at the waist as colorful con-
trast.
Guests included Mrs. Gladys Hain,
president of the Housewives’ Association,
Freda Irving, Madame Stern (in a slim
graceful frock of American-beauty tonea
silk), Dodsie Glasscock, whose unusua
g r ey crepe frock had the skirt slimly cu
into a series of deep folds. A green
straw hat trimmed with large white daisies
matched the bag Greeba Jamison
carried with her smart frock. Lynette
Walker’s beige frock and coat were worn
with black accessories. Sue Barry ha
her black-and-beige-striped linen frock
crowned with a wide black straw sailor-
hat; Inez Benson’s black suit was teame
with a hibiscus-pink straw cloche.


Missing Friend
WILL any person having any knowledge
of the present whereabouts of ROBERT
JAMBS MILLIGAN, formerly of 65 Wil-
liams Road, Windsor, Victoria, please
communicate with M. M. GORMAN, Soli-
citor, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne.
MU 4564.
No. I o/ a Series
Meti who
wake Capitm
mm
m
■m n
—The Dependable Tobacco
Mr. “Sandy” Adams has for years supervised the
storage of tobacco leaf for the “Capstan” blend.
This leaf is selected and bought at auction from the
finest Virginia types and after being re-dried is
packed into cases for shipment to “Capstan”
storages. From winter sleep to summer-time
ripeness. Capstan's leaf mellows and sweetens until
such time as uniformity and ageing are complete —
giving the smoothness and fragrance required by
“Capstan's own blend.” Watch for further
interesting advertisements in this series.
ei ßlended Better ”
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACCO
m
tm
|||
m
m
980 D. 11.52
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Hansel and Gretel”
Humperdinck’s fairytale opera
makes a pantomime of such
speed and concision that it would
be entertaining even if the
players dida’t sing it, which was
fortunate for the N. S. Wales
Home for Incurables opera com-
mittee’s presentation at Sydney
Conservatorium with the Rock-
dale symphony orchestra con-
ducted by Cedric Ashton.
The only two singers of
operatic color and power in the
cast were Alan Light and Tais
Tarana. With a voice deep, rich
and crumbly as gingerbread, Mr.
Light certainly gingered-up this
women’s show, in which he was
the only male, and his perform-
ance as a drunken father filled
at least one (amateur) drunken
father with admiration. Miss
Tarana, who was a substitute-
Mimi in Kenneth Neate’s recent
concert, was a substitute-Dew-
fairy in this opera ; she flashed
across the stage with real
operatic fullness and brilliance,
but by the time the audience had
woken up to wonder what had
woken them up, she was gone.
For the rest, the singing was of
that hazy tone which is hardly
speech or song. If Valerie
Isbister (Hansel) and June
Johnstone (Gretel) had been
children, their singing might
have seemed passable ; their only
fine moment was in the duet at
the end of Act II —and there they
sang themselves to sleep—-while
Miss Johnstone at other times
found it hard to keep to the
right key when there was no firm
melodic in the orchestra.
Glory Ikin made a playful witch,
Maria Tauber an impressively-
distressed mother and Margaret
Moore a suitably-vague Sand-
man; in all cases where they
were good—and Miss Isbister
and Miss Johnstone, especially,
had a great deal of stage busi-
ness —it was in acting and not
singing. The chorus of ginger-
bread-children sang quite well,
and the Rockdale orchestra was
at its best when it was accom-
panying : in the overture and
preludes one could hear it a little
too clearly.
Robin Lovejoy’s settings of the
broom-maker’s cottage and the
gingerbread cottage were excel-
lent ; and his production,
notably a few of the witch’s
startling stage-effects, very good
indeed; but the surrealistic
angels, made superhumanly tall
by carrying, it seemed, faceless
heads, and with shoulders and
wings of muslin spread on coat-
hangers and held aloft by sticks,
just failed to come off. Better
angels were contrived with sheets
and electric torches at last
Waverley College speech-night
at Sydney Town Hall —but they
had to satisfy Cardinal Gilroy.
However, these shows are like
claret; better vin ordinaire than
none ; the efficiency, at least, of
Sydney’s amateur and semi-
amateur productions is some-
thing to be proud of ; and the
only fault a young person one
took along could find with it was
that no one was selling peanuts
and lollies in the intervals. In
a play whose main attraction is
a gingerbread house from which,
on the death of the witch, lollies
cascade into. Gretel’s pinafore
and overflow on to the floor,
this is a serious oversight. As
one came away, one noticed that
the large group of first-night
magnificoeS, among them the
Chief Justice of the Supreme
“Whackol Here comes a prefab.!”
Court and Mr. Eugene Goossens,
were sitting tight, waiting, no
doubt, for the common people to
go, so that they might get on that
stage and scoff those lollies;
truly, there is one law for the
rich and another for the poor.
♦jt -ijt
Ballet
There was a sharp contrast be-
tween the dancing of Beth Dean,
an “exotic interpretive dancer”
from overseas, and the dancing
of Laurel Martyn’s Ballet Guild
people at Melbourne Town
Hall.
The dancing of Miss Martyn’s
people appealed to the head,
Miss Dean’s more, to the
muscles. Miss Martyn’s and
Allison Lee’s movements in
“Giselle” and “Sonata” were
charming, graceful and sweet in
terms of the convention, but all
fierceness had been bred out of
them by centuries of tradition.
Miss Dean’s movements were
hard, tough, direct and often
savage, and seemed to have
meaning apart from the conven-
tion.
Miss Dean has been studying
the Kwakiutl Indians of Van-
couver Island, the Mexicans, the
Sioux and the Maoris, and there
was a biological significance in
the violent movements with
which she described the pulsa-
tions of the beginnings of an
eruption of a volcano. One of
her most effective items was her
panel of Maori dances describ-
ing love and games, prayer and
Maori history. She has a mag-
nificent body, and can play
some lovely variations on it. She
sang while she danced, and the
Maori songs, especially a lament,
sounded delightful.
Victor Corell, Miss Dean’s
singing partner, sat on the floor
in Maori costume, and accom-
panied her in a rich baritone
voice. The present writer doesn’t
know whether it was Maori
music, but if it was, no wonder
it earned Alfred Hill’s lifelong
consideration.
+> ❖ • ❖
Television
As a sample of things possibly
to come a Sydney firm,
Associated TV Pty., Ltd., is
holding today a private showing
of Australian-made TV films —
most TV programmes are first
recorded on film.
The samples include “Pacific
City,” a 13-minute item for
American and English release,
depicting some of the more
pleasant aspects of Sydney;
“Terrific the Giant,” a six-
minute piece for the youngsters
told with the aid of puppets ;
three two-minute commercials ;
“Mr. Fixit,” eight minutes of
Australian comedian Willie
Fennell; and “Science and You,”
10 minutes of ‘education and
entertainment,”
There follow “Cowboy From
Down Under,” Smoky Dawson ;
and “Captain Thunderbolt,”
“the first major TV film made
in Australia.” It cost £30,000 to
make and occupies a “viewing”-
time of 54 minutes —in the one-
hour TV release the other six
minutes are taken up by sponsor-
identification, presentation and
commercial announcements.
Arthursts
Dunlop Art Prize
In a week which will see the
judging of the Archibald, Wynne
and Sulm’an Prize competitions
the Dunlop Company announces
its fourth annual art contest with
prizemoney amounting to £lOOO.
The Dunlop Prize and the
Archibald Prize are the richest
two art prizes in Australia; the
Archibald is purely for portrait-
painting, the Dunlop covers any
subject other than pure
portraiture.
Judges this year will be Will
Ashton, William Dargie and
John Rowell. There is a first-
prize of £3OO in the oil-painting
section, with second- and third-
prizes of £2OO and £lOO and a
further £2OO in smaller prizes
The watercolor section carries
£2OO in prizes.
Closing - date for entries is
April 17, and. arrangements have
been made for paintings to be
accepted at inter-State collection
centres. These centres are listed
op the official entry form avail-
able from art galleries and
Dunlop branches.
Archibald Prize
“Cauboy”; I see that the
Archibald Prize judges excluded
over half the entries on the
ground that they were unworthy
of exhibition. The judges should
award the prize, but they should
not arrogate to themselves in-
fallibility by only hanging those
pictures they approve.
Judges have often been wrong
in the past. Manet, Whistler,
Monet, Sisley and dozens of
other painters were all refused
admission to the Salon and hung
their rejected pictures in the
Salon des Refusees. Those pic-
tures are now regarded as the
significant paintings of their
time ; most of the ones of which
the committee of the Salon
approved have been forgotten.
There is no evidence for be-
lieving that that committee
wasn’t composed of men as in-
telligent, cultured and distin-
guished in the world’s eyes as
the present Archibald commit-
tee. No gallery director recog-
nised the genius of Corot until
he was over 50, although he was
painting masterpieces at 20, and
there is no reason for supposing
that our gallery directors are
better informed than the direc-
tors of the great galleries of
Europe.
❖ ❖ ***
“F.S.”: Touching the making
of artistic reputations. Dobell’s
reputation was made by his
enemies, not by his painting. His
painting is good, and it was just
as good in the long-necked por-
trait of Joshua Smith wi|h which
he won his first Archibald Prize
as in his others, but would it
have attracted so much attention
if sundry people had not attacked
him? Yet I don’t suppose they
wanted to make his reputation.
So I can’t understand why no-
body has thought of sending the
portrait of a horse into the
Archibald competition. Archi-
bald said that the prize should
be awarded to a portrait, pre-
ferably of a distinguished Aus-
tralian. Bernborough was a very
distinguished Australian, and
there must be horses about now
just as distinguished as Bern-
borough, and look at the atten-
tion Phar Lap gets at the
National Gallery in Melbourne
—much more than the Rem-
brandts.
If the judges rejected his por-
trait the artist could sue them,
and think of the interest he
would arouse then —he would
have nine-tenths of the Aus-
tralian public on his side.
It is the same with the
Grace Joel prize awarded by the
National Gallery in Melbourne.
It is for a half-nude, but which
half has never been stated. Up
to date competitors have always
sent in the same half.
Talkies
New Releases
“Deadline U.S.A.” (Sydney
Plaza): Humphrey Bogart as a
newspaper editor at war with the
rackets ; with Ethel Barrymore
and Kim Hunter, and Martin
Gabel heading the criminal
element.
“The Lion and the Horse”
(Sydney Esquire): Ben (Steve
Cochran) has a wild horse which
has to be saved from the clutches
of more mercenary characters ; a
battle between the horse and an
escaped circus lion is the fea-
tured highlight.
“Mara Maru” (Sydney Park):
Errol Flynn as a tough ex-U.S.
Navy man with a salvage busi-
ness in the Philippines; a
jewelled cross worth a fortune
and a bunch of crooks after
it keep Mr. Flynn in action.
With Ruth Roman and Ray-
mond Burr.
“Slaughter Trail” (Sydney
Civic): Brian Donlevy, Gig
Young and Andy Devine;
“Cripple Creek” (Sydney Vic-
tory); George Montgomery and
Karin Booth —both Westerns
according to formula.


GRAN'S Busy BIRTHDAY
by M. CT. VINCENT
PETE WOLSEY paid his
only great - grandchild,
Eveline, at the rate of two
shillings an hour to tickle
the soies of his feet with an old
hairbrush, which he always
carried in a pocket of his alpaca
coat. This was the brush which
had been used by his children
and grandchildren for the same
purpose, and it was now so worn
that the bristles were only stubble
and confined to a thin strip along
one side. He often talked of
getting a new one ; but somehow
time passed and here at last he
stood on the threshold of his
ninetieth year,-and the brush was
still in use. Among some of the
women there was talk of buying
him a new one, and of Eveline
presenting it to him at his birth-
day dinner; but when the child
informed him of this he was
infuriated.
“Your great-granny gave me
this brush the day I handed her
the first copy of the ‘Champion,’
and it’s been a good tootsy-
tickler. It’ll see me out. You
just go home and tell your
mother what I say. And you tell
her, too, that you’re coming up
the night before my birthday.
Now don’t forget!”
The day of his birthday
erupted from the night like flame
from a crater. The sun rose
blood-red out of the crimson
sea, and instantly the birds were
silent: there was no sound in
the river valley. To the small
Eveline, alone in the “Daughter’s
Room,” the onslaught of noon-
day heat at dawn was a very
terrifying experience, and she
lay rigid, waiting for the end of
the world. AH that came was the
old man, still in his nightshirt,
his eyes spry with glee. He gave
her one look, then climbed on to
a chair and eased his head as far
as possible out the small, high
window. He looked this way
and that. “Whew! ” he whistled,
very pleased. “It’s a stinker!”
At last he sat down, and as
always when he was delighted
he jigged about on his well-
padded bottom like one of those
leadweighted toys that cannot be
tumbled over. He said with
supreme satisfaction “This’ll
make your Aunt Fanny’s fat
run.”
At last Eveline found her
tongue. “Isn’t it—l thought it
was the end of the world.”
“End of the world, my foot,”
said the old man. “It’s only my
ninetieth birthday, and if you
want to get in before the rush
you better kiss me now ; but no
slop, mind you.”
When she had kissed him, she
said “I’ll do your feet for
nothing today.” Gravely he
handed the brush to her. Squat-
ting down, her legs crossed in
front of her, she began auto-
matically to stroke from the
toes down. After a while, he
mumbled “You’re leaving out
the big toes.”
Suddenly she said “Auntie
Minette was awfully mad about
the brush, Gran, and she blamed
it all on to me for telling you.”
Her voice rose to an excited
pitch. “Gran, what did she
mean, she said what could you
expect from a child who’d been
marked with a black cross. What
did she mean?” She had stopped
brushing and was looking at him
anxiously.
The old man became very un-
comfortable. He scratched
around his waist, felt in each ear
with an exploratory finger ; then
at last he grumbled “Lot of
ridiculous nonsense. She knows
jolly well what happened. I
wasn’t drunk, mind you; but
I’d been —a bit unwise, I
suppose. Well, I —um —spiced
up that anaemic font water with
a couple of drops of printers
ink. I wanted to make sure you
were a Wolsey, y’see. I was sick
to death of Denistons. Then
that fool of a minister dabbed
his finger square on it. What
else could you expect from a
fellow who voted Labor! Any-
rate I thought everyone had
forgotten about it.”
“Oh, but they haven’t,” cried;
Eveline, distressed. “And when
we got home from Auntie
Minette’s, Mummy cried.”
“Cried? Cried?” ejaculated the
old man peevishly. “What’s so
extraordinary about that? Your
mother did little else but cry
when she was a child. They
said it was her tonsils then ; God
knows what it is now! And as
for that spoilt young madam of
a Minette,” he growled, “why
don’t she provide a great-
grandchild, and then (She
wouldn’t have so much spare-
time to get into mischief?”
Eveline brightened a little.
“That’s what Mummy said to
her, and she said that she’d have
one when it suited her and not
before. Gran, do you just put
in an order when you want
one?”
“Something like that,” mut-
tered Gran, “but they seem to
get the orders a bit mixed some-
times. Now, get on with me
’ooves.”
EVELINE was brushing his
feet again when Grandma
came in. She kissed the old man,
and took no notice when he
grumbled and rubbed his sleeve
over his cheek, “It’s time to get
dressed,” she said.
“It’s my birthday, ain’t it?”
he demanded.
“Now, father,” she said in a
conciliatory tone. “There’s a lot
to be done before they all get
here, and Harry and Jane’ll be in
on the plane just after ten.”
“It’s my birthday, isn’t it!
And if I want to stay in my
nightshirt I will.”
“Don’t you dare parade about
in that nightshirt,” she began
crossly. Then in a milder tone,
and trying to be jocular, she said
“You’ll have Harriet giving
notice, and how would I manage
this ridiculous house on my
own? It’s more like a college
than a house.”
“Don’t be a giddy goat. If
she chucks a willy at an old man
in a nightshirt, what’ll she do
when she sees a young man in
nothing, eh?” He shook with
delight,
“Eveline, come with me
immediately!” snapped
Grandma, and tugged the resist-
ing child through Gran’s room.
As they went down the hall
towards her own bedroom the
old man’s voice came clearly:
“Any rate we mightn’t be in this
ridiculous house, as you call it,
much longer!”
As the woman plaited the long
hair into rigid ropes, she said
“He is going to be particularly
troublesome today. Why on
earth he can’t accept old age
gracefully and sit in that arm-
chair I bought specially for him,
I don’t know. Ever since he sold
the paper he’s been getting worse
each year, and now he’s like an
incendiary bomb. When X was a
child he was always rigidly
orthodox, except of course for
those dreadful leaders and bring-
ing the paper out on yellow news-
print every St. Patrick’s Day.
“But, apart from that, he be-
haved well. Now he takes a
perverted delight in bad
grammar, bad behavior and bad
company. He actually asked the
vegetable-man up to lunch the
other day, and that dreadful old
idiot, Sammy Steele, has been
up three times lately. The only
normal person I’ve entertained
for weeks was that man from the
Red Cross.” She looped the
child’s plaits and strangled them
with ribbon. “And now that’s
easily a dozen times in the last
few days that he’s made that
mysterious remark about leaving
this house.” She looked very
worried. “He’s up to something.
And I think it’s to do with the
hospital site, although he denies
it. Now, Eveline, I want you to
tell me if you know what he’s
planning. Now, look at me!
There: Now do you know?”
Eveline said firmly “Even if
I did I wouldn’t tell you.”
“You’re an impertinent child! ”
cried her grandmother, very
annoyed. “I can’t manage one
of you, let alone the pair of you.
You are to go home tonight!
Now, go back in there and see
that he’s dressed and in the
breakfast-room by seven. He
has a big day in front of him,
and then there’s that Chamber
of Commerce dinner for him to-
night. I don’t suppose I should
have arranged the party for him
today.” She added hesitantly
“And try not to —to excite him.”
“Why? asked Eveline. When
there was no reply, she said
“Why do you rouse on me
instead of on him? Is it because
it’s his birthday?”
“Run; along,” said Grandma
tartly.
Eveline hesitated. “Grandma,
d’you think God minded about
the ink in my christening-
water?” .
Her grandma cried “Oh, dear,
who has told you about that?
Really this is too much. Much
too much. Now just don’t talk
about it.”
“But what about God?” pro-
tested Eveline.
Desperately the woman said
“The Good Lord made him, so
I suppose He understands. Now
run along.”
WHEN Eveline knocked on
his door he said “If you’re
Evie come in, if y’rain’t, stay
out.” She went in and found
him hoisting a puce-colored pair
of braces over his nightshirt-clad
shoulders. “I’ll learn her to tell
me what to wear,” he crowed.
“How’s that, eh? Some class,
eh?”
The child surveyed him
solemnly. At last she said “The
braces don’t match the trousers.”
“Well, who wants them to
match?” he demanded. “Not
me.” He drew a soft silk hankie
from a drawer. It was yellow
with age and light as floss. 1 his
he tucked inside the neck of his
nightshirt. “It’s going to be a
ripsnorter,” he said. “I’ll have
to have something to catch the
drips. I can hardly wait to see
your Aunt Fanny melting into
her clothes like one of her
candles into its socket.” He eyed
Eveline expectantly. “What
instructions did that female
Bonaparte give you?” he
demanded.
“She said to see you were at
breakfast by seven. And, Gran,
she wants to know do I know
if you’re leaving here. But
you’re not, are you? I wouldn’t
tell anyone if you did tell me,
Gran,” she wheedled.
The old man looked grim. His
jaw jutted forward so steeply
that his white-peaked beard
pointed like a menacing weapon.
“Might,” he said succinctly.
The child stared at him with
horror, and before her prolonged
inspection his beard drooped.
He began to grumble. “Well,
ain’t she always complaining
about it? You heard her. ‘More
like a college than a house.’
She’s always at it. Any rate, I
can’t afford to keep it in order
for ever. Costs money to keep
it like this, you know! Why, I
might live to be as old as
Methuselah, and where’s the
money coming from to pay the
rates, eh?”
The child began tP cry. “Oh,
please don’t leave here. Gran.
Please, please. I’ll give you all
the money I have.”
The old man looked very dis-
tressed. He cleared his throat.
“H’m,” he said. He jabbed his
little finger into an ear and
screwed it around fiercely.
“Now look here,” he said, T
ain’t going to live for ever, you
know that. Eh ?”
“Yes.”
“And when I’m dead I’m not
having this place sawed up by
relatives or sold to speculators
like that hungry Robins. You
can see his mouth water every
time he looks at this place. It’s
the pick of the town.” He looked
very pleased with himself. “Yes,
I knew what I was doing when
I pounced on this. Robins’d give
his eyeballs for it.” He slapped
his hands together, and began to
make boxing passes at an
imaginary Robins. “The final
round is fast approaching,” he
crowed. “Now, my girl,” he said
sternly, ceasing his prancing as
though the clockwork had run
down before he had had time to
draw in his hands. “Now, my
girl, not a word of this. And, no
tears. My mind is made up.
What would you do with it, if
you had it? Eh? Mow’d you
pay the rates, for one thing?
That close-fisted father of yours
would be selling it before you
kne>v where you were. You’d
wake up one morning, and,
bang! there’d be a convent here.
Or flats. Or some other
excrescence. Now, my girl, take
this note to that dictator.”
He rolled up the front of his
huge desk and drew a pad and
pen towards him. In a flash he
had written, almost illegibly,
“Kook me sum stake.”
When the grandmother saw
the note she sighed, holding it
for a moment in the tips of her
fingers as though it were some
dirty rag. She said impatiently
“If he has one of his note-writing
crazes, I shall lock myself in my
bedroom. He needs a good
talking-to. Where is he?”
“I don’t know.”
JUST then they heard his voice
booming down the hall.
“That you, Hennessey? You’re
going to Dawling with Robins.
Now listen to me: If you hold
them up down there guzzling
beer. I’ll pepper your liver so
full of holes that it’ll look like a
case of double - cirrhosis ...
Wait and see .. . And you
make sure that Robins doesn’t
lead the minister to take it for
granted that the Cloverdale site
has been chosen, but don’t say /
said so.”
“Oh, dear, oh, dear,” moaned
the grandma, her shoulders
drooping. “He’s definitely up to
something, and it must be to do
with the hospital. I’ll have to see
Harry the moment he gets here.
He might be able to keep father
out of trouble.”
“Is that you, Robins?’ came
the grandfather’s voice.
“There! ” breathed the woman.
“I knew it. He is up to some-
thing.”
“Would it be a trouble to call
in here on your way down? I
have a letter for the Dawhng
‘Courier’. Oh, you were coming
in. Good. I’ll see you later.”
When the old man swaggered
out he deliberately held his
alpaca coat back from his chest
by tucking his hands beneath the
tail and resting his palms on his
hips. The wide expanse of night-
shirt was not noticed by his
daughter, who was too intent on
hunting trouble.
“Father,” she began peremp-
torily; then for no apparent
reason her voice softened. Ido
hope you’re not going to get all
worked up about that hospital-
site again.” , . ,
“Again! Again!” he cned.
“I’ve never ceased being worked
up about it.” . .
His daughter said anxiously
“I do wish you wouldn’t concern
yourself about it . • • ’
“Not concern myself with a
matter of such vital import-
ance !” he said. What in the
devil are you thinking about?
Don’t tell me you think the
hospital would be just as well ott
down in Cloverdale? T
“No, I certainly dont. But i
don’t see how you re going o
THE BALLAD
The lady with her baby
Came through the flood.
She wrapped it in darkness
And lapped it in love
And laid it in silence
Upon the cold stone.
Her brothers had swords out,
Her lover was dead,
She lived in a ballad
And died on a rhyme,
And she cried out but once
In the very last line.
But her child was born
In the chiming refrain,
And refrains in old ballads
Sound ever again,
So it lives where she left it,
The child of her pain.
Alas for the lady
Who died in a verse,
In the green of her springtime
Cut off by a rhyme,
With a word from a ballad
A sword in her heart.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


AtfuMum
FROM A FAMOUS FAMILY
I
Australian-Manufactured heavy-duty-engineered
International Trucks
Here they are the four Australian-made members of
the famous international truck family. They've proved
themselves on every job —that's why truck operators
everywhere have acclaimed them.
Like every International they're "all truck" from the
ground up. This means extra power and stamina for
the tough jobs, plus long life, low operating and
maintenance costs.
Make a feature by feature comparison with any other
truck and see for yourself. Your International Harvester
district office or dealer will gladly tell you why
International is your best truck investment.
CHOOSE FROM THESE MODELS
AL-110 UTILITY.
15 ewf.; 115" W. 8.; o.h.v.
engine; 220 cu. in. displace-
ment; max. h.p., 100; max.
torque, 173t5 Ibs.-ft.
Al-160 MEDIUM-HEAVY.
4-5 ton; 154" and 172"
W. 8.; o.h.v. engine; 240 cu.
in. displacement; max. h.p.,
108; max. torque, 192 Ibs.-ft.
AL-130 LIGHT TRUCK.
30 cwt.; 134“ W. 8.; o.h.v.
engine; 220 cu. in. displace-
ment; max. h.p., 100; max.
torque, 173.5 Ibs.-ft.
AL-162 MEDIUM-HEAVY.
5-6 ton; 154" and 172"
W. 8.; o.h.v. engine; 240 eu.
in. displacement; max. h.p.,
108; max. torque, 192 Ibs.-ft.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
m
131
international
atv
i
Dandenong Works ,
Victoria .
change Mr. Robins’s mind. It
certainly looks to me as though
he’s got it all sewn up.”
“Well, he can unpick it)” he
growled. “That hospital is going
to be built there,” jabbing with
his finger at the air, “not there !”
jabbing in the opposite direction.
“Whatever scheme you have in
mind —and it’s no use denying it,
you’ve certainly got one—all 1
hope is you don’t involve your-
self in expensive trouble; and
do remember that this affajr to-
night is in honor of you, so
don’t have the audacity to stir
up strife while you’re a guest-
of-honor.”
“That hospital’s going to be
on that ground that was set aside
for it years ago, whatever Robins
says to the contrary. That’s
where most of the people want
it, but Robins ’s got the wood
on half of ’em, so they just
adopt the good old Australian
attitude of ‘Cloverdale’ll do.’
And how long will Cloverdale
do? Just tell me that! At the
most ten years, and then they’ll
have to find another site. They’ll
be in the same position as we
are today. No, that hospital is
coming up here. And that park
which Robins’s so keen on hav-
ing at his front door is going
down to Cloverdale.”
“Now, father, you must be
fair. Mr. Robins was advocating
Cloverdale long before he even
had that land up here.”
“But not before he had his
eye on it. Cunning b . He
wants this to be a Mugga Way,
I suppose.”
“Father! ”
“I said cunning b , and I
meant cunning b , because he
is a cunning b .”
“Eveline! Don’t you dare
repeat to anyone what your
grandfather says or he’ll find
himself in serious trouble. You
can’t make statements like that
unless you have proof. Why,
Sammy Steele owned that land
then, and I for one know he
vowed he’d never sell it. He was
just as downright about it as
Mr. Taylor is about that farm
of poor Johnny’s.”
“My dear woman, give a bloke
like Sammy credit for long
enough and he hangs himself.”
“You are monstrously unfair
to Mr. Robins. I can’t say I like
the man, but one must give him
credit for being a great towns-
man. Whatever your differences
of opinion, you both have one
thing in common, and that is
your work for the town and
district.”
“There’s one big difference in
our aim that you fail to see. He
works for its prosperity, and I’m
working for its welfare.”
The woman threw up her
hands in exasperation. “And,
pray, what is the difference?”
“A great deal,” said the old
man quietly.
“Where’s my s-t-a-k-e, stake?”
demanded the old man, sitting at
the table. “And stop trying to
discuss civic matters. They’re
beyond a woman’s compre
hension.”
A FTER breakfast the old man
and the child sat in the
fernery under the high house
and peeled blanched almonds.
Through the pepperinas and the
clumps of giant bamboo, they
could see a scintillating patch of
river. There must have been a
slight stirring of air there, be-
cause the blue surface was cut
into small chunky hillocks like
a pane of opaque glass. “That’s
where we should be,” he
grumbled, “and that’s where
we’ll go if they don’t mind their
p’s and q’s.” He looked down
at the almonds. “Where is your
grandma?” he demanded.
“Filling the chocolate-eclairs
and the cream-puffs,” she said,
dribbling a little.
“H’m,” he said, “It’s safe for
me to park my teeth.” He
promptly took out his upper and
lower plates and slipped them
into his pocket. Then he took a
handful of almonds and put
them in his mouth. “It’s lucky I
made ’em leave in a few
grinders,” he said, very pleased
with his foresight. After a while
he mumbled “I think she’s a bit
off-color this morning.” Frag-
ments of nut flew into his beard
and moustache. “She’s not
tackling me like she usually does,
Serve her right if she is out of
sorts, I told her not to have this
giddy party. But that’s women
for you. They get a great kick
out of wearing themselves out,
and then they complain and say
it ‘has to be done.’ Your
grandma’s always at it. I
remember when old Will—that
was your grandfather was
alive: he was always coming
around here and saying with a
twinkle ‘She’s killing herself
again, but I know who’ll be first
in the grave.’ Nice fellow, Will
’ ‘
tL t r ,
tale. Then he looked up at
Eveline and stud, very sternly,
nv*„ a£ter y T ee h i„”„ gI
Sr he fr r T ask
that inevitable question of yours,
Have you cleaned em this
„ T JJ 58 * „
I haven t had . . .
Don t prevaricate. Go
instantly and clean your teeth,
If there’s one thing I detest it’s
seeing a woman in bed with her
teeth in a cup beside her. It’s
rev °bing!”
“Well, yours are in your .. .”
“No back - chat. Teeth!
Instantl Y-”
when she returned he was sit-
ting back in tbe cha * r chewing
almonds and staring dreamily at
the patch of river. “Yes,” he
“that’s where we’ll go.
We’ll row to the island and get
some wild guavas.”
“Oh, Gran, you’ve eaten nearly
all the almonds.”
“Eh?” he cried, startled, glanc-
ing sharply at the bowls, “Well,
so 1 have,” he said slowly.
Amusement displaced the shock,
“Whose birthday is it, anyway?”
he demanded. “Just take those
up to your granny, and if she
says anything tell her I et my
share.”
Eveline was spared this
unpleasant errand. As she unwil-
lingly picked up the bowls, they
heard footsteps on the veranda
, , j “"Y
above their heads, and the unmis-
m
man popped his teeth back into
place; took out the little brush
“4 h ' s f 'beard, moustaiChe
f nd i ead . a / eW de ?u Str
tnen he stood up and began 10
march up and down the concrete
inspecting the potplants and
hanging ferns. When ms
daughter appeared with two men
close behind her, he was bending
over a clump of rock-lilies.
‘Father, here are Mr, Robins
and Mr. Livingstone.
He smiled affably, advanc-
ing with outstretched hand,
“You’re abroad very early in the
day,” he said.
T}VELINE felt very proud of
him. With his snow-white
beard and hair, bright blue eyes,
and tautly-held shoulders, he
looked like a king, thought the
little girl. She glanced at the
grandmother, seeking confirma-
tion of this pride; but the
woman was looking sourly at
the bowls,
“Congratulations. Congratu-
lations, P.W.!” said Mr. Robins
throatily, clapping a hand on the
old man’s back. “Congratula-
tions,” echoed Mr. Livingstone,
“Thanks. And I hope that
when you return 111 be able to
congratulate ypu. You 11 have
*° k ®f p , your Wlts ab ° ut y ° u ’
there I f lO / 1 | ed r T l or . f, to
tell tbat ’ eb • bbat ow
W on’t be able to put much over
„ h added with a sidelong
kr of s
been a seri ous reflect
tion P on the apathy 0 £ the citizens
and the unctuous self-satisfaction
of its paper. That paper has
d r^te P d until t J a f it is
no f hing but a chronicle Q f gossip.
That iil y -l ivered Appleton is so
terrified Y of the dire^o rs that he
crosses ever y ‘p twice and never
ma j ces a d j rec t statement. That’s
what happens when a paper loses
ds integrity in the maws of a
circulation-advertisement hungry
company. They’re too money-
conscious to attack even the most
blatant injustice or insidious
negligence.
“‘lmpartiality is our watch-
word.’ That’s what Appleton
told me last time I tackled him
about the settlement’s appalling
road of access. It’s been brought
up time and time again at the
council meetings. Six times its
been held-over ‘for the engineer's
report, Robins. He fixed a
baleful glance at the attentive
Mr. Robins, but did not draw
breath in case his tirade was
interrupted. And has Appleton
written even a par. about it No,
he hasn t. 1 here he sits, shryer-
mg and shaking behind that
green shade of ms, and licking
1m lips like a lizard after flies.
He,s a disgrace to the Country
intone?flmirNh
, na sentenc ' e i Y as a ou
bellicose mvitati n , but t
two visitors were not to be
drawn. They beamed at him
child ; and Mr. Robins said "We
need a speaker like you, P.W.
Yes, we certainly need someone
of your calibre at the helm.”
“H’rump, h’runfp,” said Mr.
Livingstone, coughing into his
manicured hand. “My senti-
ments exactly. You took the
words right out of my mouth.”
A shado.w clouded the gem-
like glitter of the old man’s eyes.
He said quietly, and with dignity,
“That is very kind of you.”
Then he added with a touch of
asperity “However, I doubt
whether my eloquence would
move the Minister, when it has
failed to convince you and your
friends that you’re committing a
grave error in choosing the
{Continued on next page)


Divorce Notice
TO JAMES MARSHALL HOUSTON
formerly of Wiluna Western Australia.—
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MAVIS
SHIRLEY HOUSTON has commenced
proceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for divorce
on the ground of desertion for a con-
tinuous period of three years or more or
alternatively on the ground of separa-
tion for five years there being no reason-
able likelihood of cohabitation being
resumed IF you desire to defend such
proceedings you must file your defence
in the Central Office of the Supreme
Court at Perth within forty (40) clear
days from the date of this publication
in default of your so doing the ease may
proceed and the Court will pronounce
Judgment and make orders against you
m your absence.—Dated this Bth day
of January, 1953. G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar-HUGHES & PRIOKETT, of
Cecil Buildings, Sherwood Court, Perth,
western Australia, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
Cloverdale site. The park’s the
shot for Cloverdale, and the
place for the hospital is here
between you and me, Robins.
These pleasant surroundings and
this view, removed from the
turmoil of the town, is the place
for the sick and the injured. And
Cloverdale needs the relief of a
park, not a hospital. In a closely-
settled area like that a park is
essential. But there you are—
you’ve decided otherwise.”
“Once the novelty had worn
off,” commented Robins dryly,
“a park at Cloverdale would
probably be used only by
hoodlums and for petting after
dark. That’s generally the fate of
parks in those areas, whatever
might be the pipe-dreams of their
promoters. Any rate, P.W., the
reserve up here is barely an acre
bigger.” He glanced at his wrist-
watch. “I’m afraid we’ll have to
be making tracks, P.W.,” he said
pleasantly. “We’ll be back in
time tonight.”
“I hope you are. It’ll probably
be my last public appearance,”
the old man said with a grin.
“And there’s a little announce-
ment I intend to make.”
A speculative glimmer
appeared behind the urbane
pleasantness in 'Robinjs’s eyes,
but he said with the ready ease
of a man used to rounding off
conversations, “I’ve heard that
before, P.W. You’re like Melba.
A grand old crusader. You’ll be
making as many final appear-
ances as she did.”
The old man stared at him
fiercely. “Perhaps. Perhaps,” he
said, obviously thinking of other
things. He turned to Livingstone.
“And how do you like your new
home, Livingstone?” he asked
“Bang up gasworks, isn’t it?”
“Not the best, not the best,”
said Livingstone dolefully.
“You should buy a block from
Robins and build,” Wolsey com-
mented seriously. “You’ve
bought an acre from Smedley
on the other side of this reserve,
I heard. Going to subdivide it,
I suppose? Flats? Or houses?”
Robins shrugged, “It’s a bit of
a load round my neck, really,”
he said slowly. “But Smedley
was in a hole, and when he
approached me I’m afraid I let
him talk me into it,” He sighed.
“I’ll have to start unloading
soon,” he said warily. “My
assets are becoming liabilities.”
He smiled warmly at the old
man, who was regarding him
with an expressionless face.
“Well, where’s that letter? We
must be on our way.” The letter
was handed over.
“I’ll see you to the car. 1
suppose it’s at the front steps,
eh? Well, we’ll go this way.”
TtyTTH Eveline following, they
* * left the fernery, and under
the shade of the becreepered
trellis they walked to the front
of the house where the red-
gravelled drive swept in a
crescent from the big iron gates.
To their right was the river, and
as they stood in the shade of the
high brick walls and looked
down over the trees, a sadness
came to the old man’s face,
“I always say, you get the best
view in town from the ‘Lodge’,”
said the apologetic Livingstone.
“Yes. It is. And I’m going
to miss it when I go out to the
beach cottage,” said the old man.
“But I can’t afford to keep this
place as it should be kept.” His
bright eyes, darting a glance at
Robins, noted with satisfaction
the involuntary gleam of avarice
pale the irises to the limpid silver
of water. He continued “Of
course I’m not going to sell it.”
“I never for one moment
thought you would,” admitted
Robins, making it quite clear that
the gleam of hope had not been
sanctioned by his reasoning.
“I was talking to Burke, you
know, the Red Cross man. He
was up here for dinner the other
night. Was very complimentary
about your work, I might
mention, Robins. Said he knew
he could always bank on you to
put your shoulder behind the
wheel. I was telling him I was
going out to the beach. He said
this was the sort of place they’re
looking for. They want another
place for the war-neurosis cases.”
“Too small,” snapped Robins
before he knew he had opened
his mouth.
“Yes, that’s so,” the old man
murmured casually. “But I
suppose he had good reason to
think he could obtain additional
land.” He shuffled the gravel into
small mounds with the toes of
his shoe. “There’s Johnny
Taylor’s farm,” he murmured.
“Poor Johnny will never need
it again. I doubt whether his
father would say ‘no’ to the Red
Cross after all they did for the
boy. As you know, there’s about
a couple of chain of common
boundary between us, and then
it runs along the reserve and
behind that land you bought
from Smedley.” He said this
vaguely, as though he were out-
lining a map in his mind. He
looked up suddenly. “But I’m
keeping you. Well, thanks for
calling. I’ll see you tonight.”
As he watched the car go
slowly down the drive, he began
to smile. “Let him put that in
his pipe and smoke it for the rest
of the day and see how he likes
the taste,” he commented.
They turned to walk back to
the fernery, and he said, more to
himself than to the child, “Pair
of milksops. Do they think I’m
succumbing to senile decay, try-'
ing to butter me up with
flattery?”
“Perhaps it’s because it’s your
birthday,” suggested Eveline.
He snorted. “I’m not going
to be defeated by kindness, just
because I’ve been fool enough
to outlive my generation,” he
bellowed. “It’s degrading con-
descension. That’s all it is.”
Then he laughed loudly. “That’ll
learn him to condescend tome!”
Emma was waiting for them in
the fernery, ill at ease and
obviously apprehensive.
“Father,” she said instantly,
“please don’t try any funny busi-
ness about that hospital-site.
Please don’t start a fight! ”
“Start a fight! Me start a
fight! How in the hell can I
start a fight when nobody’ll put
up their hands? Any rate, I
don’t know what you’re talking
about. I was so mealy-mouthed
to Robins I thought my face was
going to crack.”
“Now please don’t excite your-
self so. If you had any sense,
which I doubt, you’d have a rest.
You have a very heavy day in
front of you and you’ll be out
tonight.”
“I certainly shall, if only to
get away from the house. Why
couldn’t Harry and Jane go to
the hotel or somewhere? Who’s
staying at Minette’s, anyway?
Selfish young beast. I’m not hav-
ing Harry baa-ing down my ear
all day about his blasted sheep.”
“There was a time when of all
your children Harry could do no
wrong,” commented Emma,
“and 1 remember when
Minette was the apple of
your eye. That should have
taught you a great deal,
but I’m sure it hasn’t, be-
cause if you had learnt some
sense you wouldn’t be crossing
swords with Robins, and that’s
what you’re doing even though
you’re making out to him that
he’s won the day. Robins is a
young man and you’re old.”
“Old* my foot! Who says
I’m old? I’m only a boy yet.”
He turned abruptly to Eveline.
“Eveline! Come down to the
boathouse,” he commanded, and
stepped into the sunshine.
nrHE heat moulded itself to
-*■ their heads and arms like a
poultice, and fitted a constricting
jacket over their afflicted chests.
The fierce light snatched the sight
from their eyes.
“Father! ” shrieked Emma.
“Please come back at once.
Eveline! Bring him hack ai
once .”
On went the old man, feeling
the path with shuffling feet, the
child pulling lightly on his coat.
At last they could see the shim-
mering heatwaves closing in on
them, confining them to a helmet
as airless as an implacable ether-
mask. The freshly-washed linen
on the line assaulted their tor-
tured eyes and set nerves need-
ling at the base of their heads.
Involuntarily they cupped their
hands about their brows and
hurried past. Alongside the
steeply-sl oping path the pump-
kin-leaves had lost their crisp-
ness and lay on the ground like
scum; the tomato-plants hung
at their stakes, crucified corpses:
and on the rounded green breasts
of lettuce the sunrays fell like
acid-drops, bleaching the tightly-
furled leaves through to the
heart. Only the cascara-trees
stood undaunted, cascading
their slim black pencils from a
frou-frou fountain of green,
“It’s a scorcher,” muttered
Gran.
Down the wide, shallow steps
they went to the boathouse.
“Let’s cool-off—first,” puffed
the old man as the child searched
with trembling hand for the key
among the stones. He walked
around the little outside plat-
form that encircled the boatshed
till he came to the shade of the
pepper-tree. Under his feet the
bright enamelled beads from the
tree crackled like sparks from
deal. He sat down, the air
hissing from his pursed lips, and
looked across the river at the
island, floating high in the heat
haze like a caterpillar on its
back, its palm-trees serrating the
blue with a hundred legs.
“We’ll get out of this and go to
the island,” he said. “I’ll just
get my second wind.” He began
to dream.
There was silence for ten
minutes or so. The fine leaves
and brilliant berries of the tree
hung motionless, so that, look-
ing up at them, they were ham-
mered into the sky like green
and pomegranate enamel into
hydrangea-blue metal. Below
them the vitrified river held the
piles of the jetty in deep-green
sockets, soundless as slumber.
At last the old man stirred,
waking from a wide-eyed sleep.
“Now, let’s have a look at that
boat.”
Eveline found the key and
opened the door. “Julius
Ctesar!” he cried, as the hot
air, sweet with tar, soughed
pungently from the doorway.
“If we don’t get her into the
water she’ll go up in smoke.
They peered at the boat. We 11
have to wait till the place airs
off,” he mumbled, and walked
back to the pepper-tree.
This time he sat so that he
could look up the steep bank at
the house. Core of the family
conflict, quiet in its three acres
of man-planted forest, The
Lodge lifted its octagonal tower
just above the jacarandas. The
diamond-shaped panes in its
windows crested the tower with
a crown of jewels. Looking at
it, the old man chuckled. “Dead-
set against that tower, she was.
Dead-set against the whole
house, but particularly that
tower. Well, I only gave her
that jewellery as an investment,”
he muttered grumpily, more to
himself than to the child.
“There was no need for her
to be so high and mighty about
it when I realised on it. She
called that tower her ‘casket of
jewels’ for many a day. Never
forgave me,” he was puzzled.
“Never could understand it.
She never said a word about
selling the emerald-set when I
lost the first libel case, or the
necklet when I lost the last; but
she never forgave me about that
tower. I could see that when
she died and I found out the
way she’d been deceiving me. A
hundred pounds for a fur coat,
when it only cost forty pounds.
Fifteen pounds for a dress when
it really cost a fiver. Columns
of it. Everything noted down.
All in the bank.
“And to think that in the
depression I had to mortgage
the house and end up by selling
the ‘Champion,’ and she didn’t
give me a brass razoo. In fact,
all she did was talk me into
selling the paper, by gollies!
All the explanation she gave in
that blasted will was that I was
‘irresponsibly extravagant and
grandiloquently imaginative,’ so
I could just have the interest to
keep me from want in my old
age. Damn’ hide of her,” he
said, by now very aggrieved.
'“l’d sooner starve, and as for
touching a penny of the divi-
dends from that blasted radio-
station, I’d rather die. That
was a nice thing for a wife to do
now! Shares in a cocksparrow
radio-station when she knew
what I thought of them.”
Very morose, he slumped
further against the side of the
boathouse, squinting up at the
offending tower. “No, it was
easily seen, she never forgave
me. But if she thinks I’m going
to use that money for myself,
she’s mistaken. Let the interest
pile up till it topples over, I’m
not touching it even' if I have
to go on the pension, and, by
gollies, if I don’t shuffle off in a
few years I’ll be scratching, I
can tell you. It’d serve her right
if I used her stinking interest to
further a grandiloquently-
imaginative, scheme. By gollies,
wouldn’t that nark her!”
He was silent for a few
minutes. “Pete’s Periscope,
they used to call it,” he said at
last in happier tones. “I ran a
column for years, ‘Notes from
Pete’s Periscope.’ Now it’s only
a rubbish-dump.” He looked
doleful. “Ah, well, it still has
its uses, which is more than I
can say for myself. I’m just a
damn’ nuisance, and it’s no
wonder Robins treats me like a
mosquito. Or a pup. That’s
what he does. A pup you have
to be kind to. A broken-down
old newshound, that’s all I am.
I should have died when I sold
the paper. I’ve had my day.
I’m like the house. We’ve had
our day. Now we’re only
curiosities.”
This was true enough. Out-
wardly the house was impressive
and dignified like the old man,
but inside it abounded with
eccentricities such as the “Dark
Room” in the centre of the
two vast halls, the “Daughter’s
Room,” with its only entrance
through the main bedroom, the
ingle-seats inside the huge chim-
neys with their lofty marble
mantles, the huge sliding-doors
of cedar between the lounge and
dining-rooms. Conceived by
the old man in the days of his
bountiful prosperity, the house?
represented in bricks and beauti-
ful timbers the pride and the
fantastic quirks of a vigorous,
original mind, so that, ageing
together, house and man were
now as much one as are the fruit
and the seed.
AT eleven, when his grandson
Harry came down from the
house, the old man was running
his hands over the boat pretend-
ing to the little girl that he was
going to launch it any moment.-
Harry stood in the doorway
mopping his face and long,
skinny neck.
“Couldn’t you find a better
place?” he inquired dryly.
“Aunt says you’re to come up.
Everyone has arrived. Here’s an
umbrella each.”
The old man, relieved, pre-
tended indignation. “A man
can’t go for a row without a
bevy of old women chasing him
with umbrellas,” he muttered,
bending down to look at noth-
ing on the keel of the boat. “Oh,
well,” he said, straightening up,
“we’ll go this evening, Evie.”
He refused the proffered arm
of his grandson, but took the
umbrella, and under it he
marched stolidly up the slope,
his lips beneath his moustache
grim with determination. At
the vegetable-patch he paused
for a while, ostentatiously to
point out the devastation therein.
“That’s what —the present—
generation—is like,” he panted.
“No guts.” He paused again
at the fowlyard and glared at
the gaping hens, which sat with
outspread wings and drooping
tails on their perches. After a
while he said “They’re the living
—image —of your Aunt —
Fanny, eh, Evie? If they had
a rail in front of ’em —you’d
swear they were —in pews.”
Harry said unhappily, seek-
ing without success for discreet
words, “Er —poor old Fan. Er
—d’you, don’t pick on her,
Gran. She’s not a bad sort.
Everyone has a right to choose
their religion, and her heart’s
in the right place.”
“Well, so’s yours, I hope,”
cried the old man, very piqued.
When they stepped into the
fernery it seemed to them as
though they were drifting under
the shelter of a wharf. In a far
corner the sprinkler cascaded
among the rockeries, and against
the lattice, between the high
thick piles, the green venetian-
blinds were slanted slightly so
that the distilled light wavered
in pale-green pennants, without
warmth or reality upon the con-
crete and the plants. Faces,
pale as fungi, floated mistily,
featureless. Someone took the
old man by the arm, and a
babble of feminine scolding
shushed around them. Above
them all was the plaintive wail
of Eveline’s mother. “You
naughty, naughty girl. Look at
your face! What is Gran think-
ing of?”
“Let me go!” roared Gran,
shaking off the guiding hand.
“I can’t see a thing in this black
hole,” he added immediately.
“Eveline, where’s my chair?”
When he was settled he said
grumpily “You look like a depu-
tation from Noah’s Ark. Why
in the hell didn’t you dribble
in? You make me feel like a
buck rabbit. Any rate, you’re a
lot of damn’ fools to come
traipsing all over the countryside
on a day like this.”
“Father! ” commanded Emma.
Then, more gently, “You would
go down to the boathouse. You
weren’t even here to welcome
them when they did come. And,
what’s rfiore, I’ve had to answer
at least twenty phone-calls for
you. And accept a pile of tele-
grams a foot high.”
“You’re lucky I wasn’t halfway
over to the island,” he remarked
blandly. “Bring me a drink, and
when I say drink I don’t mean
raspberry-syrup.” He said all
this fiercely because he was tre-
mendously embarrassed. He kept
moving his shoulders restlessly
as though the alpaca coat were
made of hot asphalt. Several


NG
: > 2?
the QUICK
low-cost
way t
St
with Australia's Biggest Selling Tractor
FORDSON MAJOR
SEEDING—with Fordson Major
gives you a flying start for a
bumper year. In fact, SEEDING
is only the beginning of your
cost-saving programme with
Fordson Major ... its economy
on fuel and general running re-
duces costs on harvesting and
other jobs such as pumping
water, cutting wood, digging
post-holes and all power-farm-
ing work. Also there’s a model
to suit your own soil conditions
and to work with your trailing
and attached implements. Des-
spite Fordson Major’s low-cost
(its the lowest priced tractor per
h.p. rating) you get this equip-
ment on all models: Lights,
Starter, Brakes, Belt Pulley,
Radiator Shutters and Power
Take-off. Another great boon
is prompt nation-wide SER-
VICE . . . anywhere, anytime !
But most important: ORDER
NOW! Don’t chance a last-
minute delivery. See your
Fordson Dealer immediately /
Compare these prices with those of any other tractor
'fc'
Xj,'
FM2B-33
Fordson Major Farms Australia
Enquire from your local Fordson dealer.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD:
people began to speak, and then
broke off, so that there was
silence again.
His grandson, Harry, looking
like a reflective ibis, said “That’s
a very fine article of Appleton’s
today. He must have spent a
great deal of time digging up all
the material and getting it into
shape. Showed a decent spirit,
I thought.”
“Never read his articles now,”
snapped Gran, taking a sibilant
sip from his whisky-and-soda
and a cheese biscuit from the
traymobile which Minette had
wheeled over to him. “He’s
nothing but a rubber-stamp.
Should be a public servant edit-
ing the ‘Government Gazette.’ ”
“But, Grandfather,” protested
Minette, leaning gracefully over
the back of his chair and pouting
prettily, “it was a simply lovely
article all about you and all
you’ve done for the paper and
the district.”
“D’you mean to tell me you
didn’t open that paper?” de-
manded his daughter.
‘*Lot of tripe, I suppose,” he
commented, taking another bis-
cuit, He turned to his eldest
grandson, a bald-headed man
of forty, whose brown eyes' were
imprisoned like weird fish in the
bowl of his thick glasses.
“How’s that damnfool business
of yours getting on? Interior-
decorating! What’s the world
coming to! Just another way to
get women to spend more
money.”
Little wisps of conversation
started up here and there, and
in a few moments there was such
a buzz of chatter and laughter
that private titbits were con-
fided quite openly on the out-
skirts of the munching crowd*.
Eveline, walking aimlessly
among the near and distant rela-
tives, was given scant attention,
partly because the adults were
overwhelmed by their social
obligations and partly because
most of them regarded her as an
“odd child.” At last she sat
down on a potplant-stand beside
her grandmother and listened
with growing interest to the
melancholy plaint.
“He’s more trouble than ever.
I feel so sorry for poor young
Appleton. Father’s always haul-
ing him over the coals, and I’m
afraid it’s pure jealousy, be-
cause he did the same to
Grieves, you know. He can’t
bear to see someone else direct-
ing that office. He’s always rac-
ing off down there in the old
Ford ; he won’t part with it, and
the sergeant told me yesterday
he won’t register it. Of course
he can’t afford a new car unless
he gives in and uses Mother’s
interest. Any rate the sergeant
said that he was very sorry, but
we’d just have to stop him driv-
ing. He is so erratic, you know.
As far as he’s concerned he’s
got the right-of-way all the time.
“And then, to cap it all, last
night Dr. Sterner rang me.” Her
voice dropped to a whisper. “He
said that Father fell fast asleep
in his surgery yesterday. He
went along to see him about
the hospital—you know how he’s
always going on about it. Well,
there he was fast asleep, and
Doctor took his blood-pressure,
because he said he’s been ob-
serving him lately and had his
suspicions, and, my dear, it is
much higher than it should be,
and I’m expected to keep him
on a diet! And keep him quiet!
Now we all know he’s not happy
unless he’s wrangling all day.
And now he’s up to some fresh
mischief involving the hospital.
“I’m just too old to stand the
strain much longer. Everyone
forgets I’m over sixty. Some-
one else will have to take a turn.
Oh, dear, is that the twelve-
o’clock chime? Heavens, I
must go up and see if that girl
is keeping an eye on things. Do
come up with me, dear. I want
you to give me some advice
about that coat before ...” She
was so flustered that even when
she stood up she did not notice the
child, who sat staring at her with
a bewildered and pitiful anxiety.
A few minutes later when she
was taking her new coat from
the wardrobe (having completely
forgotten to check-up on the girl)
she interrupted a detailed recital
of her bargain-hunting prowess
to say tartly to a clinging Eve-
line “For heaven’s sake, child,
give me a moment’s peace. Now,
leave this room instantly.”
T COKING woebegone, Eve-
line dawdled back to the
fernery. She found the potplant-
stand again and pushed through
the gabbling groups to her great-
grandfather’s side. Unnoticed,
she sat near the arm of his chair.
He was talking to Great-uncle
Harry, in the low almost unin-
telligible mumble that men re-
serve for confidential chats.
“Emma doesn’t know what
she’s talking about,” Gran was
saying. “Women hear half a
sentence and then rush in to lay
down the law. They think their
sole mission in life is to protect
men from trouble.”
“Perhaps you’re right. But I
suppose Em thinks you’ve
earned the right to sit back and
let others do the work. After
all, you’ve done a lot for the
town. Now it’s someone else’s
turn. If they’re willing to tag
along with Robins, then let
them! It can’t do that much
harm, as long as they get the
hospital.”
“What!” cried the old man,
forgetting to mumble. “Do you
think that Cloverdale site is all
right?”
“We-1-1, it’s not ideal, cer-
tainly: but it must have its
points, otherwise why is Robins
championing it? They might
sit back and let him do all the
work —that’s what ninety per
cent, of the people always do
when they find a mug; but he
couldn’t push any old thing
down their necks and expect
them to swallow it.”
“Now look here,” hissed the
old man, hitching his chair half
an inch closer to his son, “he’s
a speculator, pure and simple.
Well, not so much of either.
He’s as cunning as a fox. Now
let me tell you this. I’ve sniffed
out a few juicy bits of meat the
last couple of weeks. You
know old Cartwright, the fellow
who’s been coming up here doing
a bit of gardening and a lot of
resting for four-bob an hour? —
I told you about him last Easter
—nice enough fellow, but a no-
hoper, if ever there was one.
Well, he’s all out for Robins.
Wonderful fellow, Robins. Salt
of the earth. And why? I
found out the other day. He
told me he wouldn’t be up again.
He’s opening a plant-nursery
and a sort of florists. Convert-
ing the front of his house into
a shop. And where is it? Bang
in front of that Cloverdale
reserve.
“And that’s not all. His next-
door neighbor is that jack-of-all-
trades, Benny Talbot, and he and
Benny are singing a Glory Halle-
lujah Robins duet because
Robins is ‘rescuing’ Talbot from
the council’s steamroller and
fitting him out with an ice-
cream cart to tote ice-cream
round the town in summer and
pies in winter, and I suppose
it’ll be no time at all before the
front of his house is converted
into a sundae-shop. All on
Robins’s money, that has as
much hope of being repaid as I
have of reaching Heaven. And
Robins knows it as well as I do.
Some day he’ll be regretfully
forced to take over the busi-
nesses and the converted fronts.
1 suppose out of his bounty he
will allow the fools to live rent-
free in their own homes. And
I’ll tell you what. If that hos-
pital does go up at Cloverdale
the front gates will be bang in
front of Cartwright’s and Tal-
bot’s.”
Looking very confused, Harry
said “It all seems , very round-
about to me. And, after all, isn’t
it only conjecture?”
“Oh, baaaaaa,” said the old
man, exasperated. He hitched
his chair away an inch. “You’re
as thick in the skull as Emma.
Now you leave me to my affairs
and I’ll leave you to yours. What
price did you get for your
wool?”
npHE lunch-hour arrived at
"*• last. In the long dining-
room with its vast fireplace of
Italian white marble taking up
three-quarters of one side, and
the French-doors and casements
taking up all the other side, the
family sat at two long tables,
Overhead the two ventilators
sucked in the air, and at the end
of the room the iant e i ectr i c .
fan spun silver blades in a black
f rame Qn one side of Gran
sat G randma wbo was b is
eldest child nd on the other
Eveline was squeezed in next to
her Great-uncle Harry, who
annoyed her intensely through-
out the meal because he gobbled
bis food and snu fp ed bis flu j ds _
though this were not suffi.-
dent vexation he made a i ong
and tedious speech, throughout
which Grandma kept her eyes on
£ vebne so tbat sbe W as unable
to surrep titiously nibble at the
cream . pu ff s wb i c h Gran had so
kindly placed directly in front of
her i mme diately they were all
seated As soon as the toast was
drunk Eveline crammed a com-
p i e te puff into her mouth.
Tb g old man stood up to
reply « Wed *» be sa j d j n a CO n-
versat i ona l tone, “we are all here
except Mother ” He stared
rum i na tively at the fireplace,
“Fifteen years she’s been gone
now. She’d be pleased to know
you’ve all done so well finan-
ciaily, A great one for financial
security was your mother,” he
added dryly. After a moment’s
silence he went on; “Most of
you chose the land. God knows
wby . Of course I know you’re
the backbone of the country;
but it’s the brain which directs
our destiny and your prosperity,
and it’s a good, honest paper
which is not afraid of risking its
circulation which goes to make
up that grey matter. It is the
reservoir for all your demands,
and if it’s worth its ink it does
i ts damnedest to see that you’re
satisfied. Of course I must not
complain if you all turned your
back on me, because at last one
shows signs of turning my way.
She is already getting poems back
by every mail. I am proud to say
that her enthusiasm has not been
dampened by this lack of appre-
ciation in our present-day edi-
tors...in spite of the fact that
tbe other night she read in an
Answers to Correspondents’
column that her ‘Night Wind
had blown itself out.’ She might
live to hold the Wolsey fort yet.
That is if she manages to digest
ten oyster-patties, twelve cock-
tail-sausages, half a dozen sand-
wiches, several eclairs and God
knows how many cream-pufts.
At this juncture the speech
ended in laughter and clapping
because, overcome with emo-
tion, Eveline began to cough,
and fragments of cream-puff
sprayed from mouth and nos-
trils. A crumb lodged in her
windpipe and in a few seconds
she was crimson. Her hands
beat the air and her terrific
eyes protruded and rolled. In
the confusion Gran escaped to
his room, i Great-uncle Harry
folded his hands gratefully across
his distended stomach and in-
stantly fell asleep ; Estelle mur-
mured to her husband that Eve-
line was a spoilt, greedy, pre-
cocious child and she hoped if
she ever had any grandchildren
she could supervise their up-
bringing better than Emma had.
Most of the men scraped back
their chairs and, murmuring
unintelligibly, strolled to the
cool back-veranda, where they
drew up the most comfortable
chairs into a semicircle,
{Continued on next page )


YOUNG SHAVER
m
I I
I
1=
s^B
'
Boys will be men, soon
enough it’s those snap-
shots made when they are
only “young shavers” that
will he treasured in later
years. For indoor or outdoor
snapshots you can’t beat
KODAK Super-XX Film,
pA^
n
K°
U
flUt
&
MAIiS
Ijji
cHSS
sPiS
Hiiii
KF674
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
As soon as she had recovered
Eveline said she was going to
the toilet, and went straight up
the hall to the old man’s room.
She knocked, then opened the
door a couple of inches. “Who’s
that?”
“Me,” said Eveline, her voice
trembling with anger, “and I’ve
come to tell you I hate you,
see !”
“Come right in,” he said
cordially. “I’ll be delighted to
listen to some abuse for a
change.”
She bounced into the room,
her face in its anger remark-
ably like his. “You were simply
horrid,” she said tensely. “So
there! I told you not to tell
anyone about my poems. You’re
a —a pig- I hate you. You’re
a —a renecake!”
He was delighted. “That’s
the nicest thing that’s been said
to me today,” he retorted hap-
pily. “I was beginning to feel
old age and veneration a boring
burden. God knows how the
Chinese put up with it.”
She stamped her foot. “Don’t
you dare laugh at me, you black-
guard,” she cried shrilly.
“ ‘Blaggard’ is the pronuncia-
tion,” he said. Then he added
inconsequently “I admit it was
dastardly of me, my dear ; but
to tell the truth I suddenly felt
pretty tired and I wanted to get
out, so I said the first thing that
came into my head...”
His voice trailed away, and
he looked down at the paper in
his hands with a vague, wonder-
ing gaze as though he were ques-
tioning its reality. The sub-head-
ing, “Pete Wolsey is Ninety To-
day,” expanded before his eyes
till the letters seemed to take up
half the width of the paper;
then they blurred and wavered
into obscure hieroglyphics. He
took off his glasses and wearily
rubbed at his eyes. He looked
what he was, a tired, bewildered
old man, his neck stretched out
from his coat and the silk
handkerchief like the neck of a
tortoise, long, skinny and scored
with innumerable wrinkles. See-
ing it, the dreadful recollection
of Grandma’s whispering
shocked Eveline, and in her
ignorance she expected him to
fall dead before her eyes. She
wound one leg round the other
and regarded him with a pathetic
anxiety.
“Gran,” she began quaver-
ingly. He set his glasses into
position and darted a glance at
her. “What in the hell’s got into
you all of a sudden?” he in-
quired irascibly. “Nothing,” she
whispered. “Well, it’s a pretty
painful nothing, that’s all I can
say,” he muttered, looking be-
wildered and confused. He
rustled the paper irritably.
“Would you like me to brush
your feet?” she asked, anxious
to atone for her jeopardising of
his life.
“No, I certainly would not,”
he shouted, “I thought you’d
come in to trounce me, and
then for no apparent reason
you’ve wilted like those pump-
kin-leaves, and I’m not having
any wilted pumpkin-leaf scrap-
ing at my hooves. I’m sick and
tired of the lot of you. Now
get out and shut that door. I’m
going to have a snooze. You
just go and tell them to keep
out.”
TAR AG GIN G one foot, she
reluctantly did as she was
told. She felt very lonely and
frightened, and longed for com-
fort ; but between them was this
threat of death. She wandered
out onto the veranda, where her
sullen mumble of “Gran is going
to have a snooze” was received
with relief. Everyone relaxed.
The men held long discussions,
animated by several bursts of
argument. The older women
went to Grandma’s bedroom to
look at her summer “outfit,” and
the young women discussed with
alarming frankness everything
from contraceptives to the
length of skirts.
An hour passed very pleas-
antly for everyone but Eveline.
She kept thinking of Gran’s red
face and torturing herself with
visions of him dying, or even
lying dead. She wandered dis-
consolately from one group to
another, ignored most of the
time, but occasionally treated to
an affectionate banter which em-
barrassed her. A few times she
was told to run away like a good
girl and find something with
which to amuse herself. At last
she could bear the uncertainty
no longer, and dawdled up the
hall. It took her five minutes to
reach his door. There she
listened intently for a few
minutes. Then she knocked.
When there was no answer she
opened the door with a shaking
hand and peered round the edge
of it into the room.
The old man was lying back in
the new armchair, his feet up on
the little footstool. His hands
drooped over the arm-ends like
empty gloves, and from his half-
opened lips a little dribble of
saliva shone silver. His eye-
lids, untouched by the sun, were
pallid and weighted his eyes with
white coins. A terrible fear
seized the child. Perhaps this
was death! And not daring to
investigate, she hastened to fetch
her grandmother, bitterly re-
proaching herself for not voic-
ing her alarm long ago.
“Come and look at Gran,”
she whispered, tugging at her
grandmother’s skirt.
“Why, what’s wrong?” cried
the grandmother in alarm.
“What is it? What did Eve-
line say?” boomed Great-uncle
Harry, “Is anything wrong with
Father?”
An instant hush accentuated
Minette’s pealing laughter, which
broke off abruptly.
“Now, what’s wrong, Eve-
line?” asked her father; but
Grandma and Eveline were
already in the hall. Four or
five followed, but the others were
restrained by Eveline s father,
who kept saying “Now, don’t all
go crowding in. Where’s that
Eveline? If anything is wrong
she shouldn’t be there. ”
Grandma pushed open the
bedroom-door just as Gran gave
a whistling snore. Defenceless,
he lay before their intent gaze,
his loose lips voluble with small
bubbles which suddenly erupted
from his toothless gums. The
intensely white eyelids flew open,
leaving the face strangely less
red. Stupidly he gazed at them,
his eyes opaque ; then with an
effort he sat up, kicking the foot-
stool away and brushing the des-
pised newspaper from his lap.
“What in the hell are you gap-
ing at?” he muttered, acutely
embarrassed. “Get out of my
bedroom.”
“It’s four o’clock,” quavered
Grandma, still weak from
fright, “and they’ll be going
soon,” she added lamely.
“Lot of giddy goats,” he
growled, feeling for his shoes.
“Go away, I don’t know what’s
got into you all today. Go on,
get out. I was just thinking of
coming out, anyway.”
They went back to the
veranda. Everyone laughed
when Grandma said he was only
asleep “actually sitting in the
armchair with his feet on a foot-
stool and the newspaper on his
lap.”
Ti/rINETTE laughed merrily.
-LYI Her laughter was always
bell-like but never kind, “And
I thought Eveline was supposed
to be such a clever little girl,”
she said maliciously, “and he
was only asleep. And he looked
so funny blowing bubbles with
his teeth out.” Her laughter
pealed again.
A passionate anger and re-
vulsion made Eveline tremble.
She cried shrilly “You’ll all be
like that one day, see,” She ran
swiftly towards the veranda
door. As she flung it open she
looked malevolently at the
amused, gracefully posturing
Minette, “Even you,” she
pointed. “I’ll come and laugh
at you when you’re old. And
don’t think you’re going to get
The Lodge just because you
want it, because Gran’s giving it
to the Red Cross.” She fled to
the boathouse: there, regard-
less of the suffocating heat, she
cried bitterly, unaware of the
precise nature of her deep
distress.
On the veranda there was a
burst of shrill chattering and
many voices calling Emma and
asking what did Eveline mean.
“Don’t ask me,” said the dis-
tressed woman. “I’m the last
always to know what’s going on.
All I know is that for the past
few days he’s been strewing mys-
terious remarks as thick as con-
fetti.”
There was such a hubbub of
conjecture that when the old
man came out on to the veranda
no one noticed him or heard
his ‘“What’s going on, eh?” So
he knocked with his fist on the
wall and bellowed “Stop talking
about me!” There was silence
instantly, and they all turned to
him. “What are you saying
about me?” he demanded trucu-
lently, his eyes sparkling with
pleasure. “Don’t tell me there’s
a fight at last?”
Minette demanded: “Are you
going to give this place to the
Red Cross? That odious child
said you were.”
“Ha! Reprisal!” gloated the
old man. He rubbed his hands
together and announced with a
mixture of defiance and delight
“I’m giving it away. Has anyone
anything to say, if so, say it, but
it won’t make any damn’ differ-
ence! I’ve made up my mind.
I’m going out to the beach
shack and I’m offering this
property to the district for a
special purpose.”
Expressions of incredulity,
horror, speculation, hope, dis-
tress met the old man’s questing
gaze. Only the much-maligned
Fanny remained placid and
pleasant. “What a sensible
idea,” she said. “It’s such a
nice, cosy house at the beach.”
Her remark did not please
him. What right had she to side
with him against an obviously
hostile family! He was furious.
“Well,” he growled, ignoring
her, “why don’t one of you
speak up?”
“But the Red Cross! ” said the
bewildered Emma. “Why, I
heard you tell that Red Cross
man only the other night that
you had other things in mind for
it. What does Eveline mean?
Have you changed your mind?”
“I most certainly haven’t. This
land is to be used in conjunction
with- the reserve for the hospital.
And I’m giving your mother’s
interest to pay for any altera-
tions necessary to make this into
the nurses’ quarters.”
“You’re just doing this to
spite Mr. Robins! ” cried Minette
angrily. “And very silly you’ll
look if it’s not accepted.”
“Don’t make a fool of your-
self, Minette,” said her husband
gruffly.
The old man lowered himself
into a chair, and in spite of the
glum faces of the family a wide
grin spread over his face. “That
snooze did me good,” he said.
“It’s raised my hopes again. In
fact I’ll be very surprised if our
friend Robins isn’t dropping in
here any moment for a quiet little
chat before the dinner tonight.”
“Oh, dear,” sighed Emma,
distraught with anxiety, “what
have you been up to ?”
.“You mind your business and
I’ll mind mine,” snapped the old
man.
TNTO the silence which fol-
lowed this remark came the
ring of the front door-bell, and
the answering chime in the
kitchen. “I’ll answer it,” cried
the old man, levering himself out
of the chair. “Harriet, I’m
going.”
No one spoke. They scarcely
breathed as he went up the hall
They heard the door open, and
then the old man’s voice:
“Robins! You’re back early.
Don’t tell me it was a washout.”
“We had an excellent hearing,
and he proved exceptionally co-
operative. The prospects are
particularly bright.”
“Splendid. Splendid. You
must come in and we’ll wet its
head. In the library. A drink’ll
do you good. You look done-
in.”
“It’s been an arduous day.”
Their shoes sounded crisply
on the parquet like hooves clip-
ping on paving-blocks in the
early morning. “Of course,”
said the old man, “I’ll be honest
with you, Robins. I haven’t the
same interest in the hospital
now,”
The hall held his voice as a
well holds sound.
Breathlessly the people on the
veranda waited for Robins’s
answer. To their astonishment
it came instantly, and although
the suavity was still there, the
condescension had vanished. In
fact, there was a very slight
tremolo of uncertainty.
“Yes, P.W., that’s a funny
thing. I was turning over in my
mind what you said this morning
about leaving, and I just won-
dered if there was the slightest
possibility of the hospital project
benefiting. As you know, I’ve
been right against the reserve,
for several reasons; but of
course it would be a different
story if this property could be
added to the reserve. What a
site for a hospital!”
They entered the library.
“Well, now,” said the old man,
cordially but obviously giving
the proposition ponderous con-
sideration. “Let’s talk this
over.” He came to the veranda
window. “I’ll just shut this so
we won’t be disturbed.” With-
out looking at the crowd on the
veranda, he shut the casements,
Emma said faintly “Oh, dear,
he’s still in his nightshirt!”


Australian Historical Sketches
The Australian Press
Is Born
By M. H. ELLIS
FOR the Australian Press
1953 is a “sesquicentenary”
year. March 5 will see the
150th anniversary of our
first newspaper, founded by
Governor King, produced with
great travail by a West Indian
compositor, erstwhile of the
“Times”: Mr. George Howe,
who had left his country for his
country’s good.
The “Sydney Gazette and
New South Wales Advertiser”
was not nearly so imposing a
journal as its title, or as the
interesting block at the head of
its first page might have led one
to expect. It was published “by
authority” issued for the Gov-
ernor by his secretary, Mr. Wil-
liam Neate Chapman,
It was printed in a rough shed
at the back of Government
House at the corner of Phillips
street and Bridge-street. Its cir-
culation was about 100. Its ad-
vertising-rate in its first issue was
Is. 6d. for the first 12 lines to
subscribers, 2s. 6d. for up to 20
lines, pro rata above that, and
one-third discount for second
and third insertions. Non-
subscribers paid an extra six-
pence on the basic rates. Any-
body who owns the 1803
volume today owns several hun-
dred pounds’ worth.
To collect news its editor
placed “slip-boxes” in front of
the issuing-store, which stood
nearly opposite where The
Bulletin office now is, that
being a fine place for gossip,
and also handy to the guard-
house in case of riot. A second
was established in the window
of Parramatta courthouse.
Scanning the three-column
pages (four of them) of the first
issue proves how much life
there could be in a small settle-
ment 12,000 miles from Europe
and blessed with a population
of about 7000, of whom 2000
were still convicts, most of the
rest having recovered their
liberty after losing it.
The initial item on Page 1
was devdted to the suppression
of a time-honored practice, for
it promised the infliction of a
healthy fine on any boatman
bringing grain from the Hawkes-
bury who overloaded his vessel
or by other means allowed his
cargo to become wet.
This may seem somewhat hard
to the uninitiated, but getting
grain wet on a Hawkesbury
boat was not an accident; it was
a profession out of which you
could make a good living with
wheat at a high price. You
started off with the cargo dry,
stole a reasonable proportion of
it and poured water on the re-
mainder to bring it up to its
original weight and bulk. Then,
weeping bitterly, you arrived in
Sydney with wild tales of high
waves and low gunwales to
account for the dampness of the
cargo.
It was, therefore, reasonable
that the matter should take pre-
cedence even of the editor’s
address to his readers, in which
he told his subscribers that the
innumerable obstacles which
had opposed his venture had not
proved insurmountable ; that he
“courted the assistance of the
ingenious and the intelligent,”
though he would “open no
channel to political discussion
or personal animadversion”;
Information is our only Purpose:
that accomplished, we shall consider
we have done our duty, in an exer-
tion to merit the Approbation of the
PUBLIC, and to secure Liberal Pat-
ronage.
No reader need have been
disappointed, either in the edi-
torial effort or in what the com-
mercial community had to offer.
The first advertisement which
meets the eye in this first Aus-
tralian newspaper, even though
it emanated from Mr. John
Jacques, a “taylor” whose
gloomy address was “at the back
of the General Hospital,” was
full of good tidings, in that he
was able to inform the public
that, “in consequence of the
reduction that has lately taken
place in the price of many
articles of common consump-
tion,” he was “enabled to make
an Abatement in his charges.”
The news-editor dwelt on the
abundance of animal food —pig-
meat from Tahiti, on which no-
body seemingly looked with any
suspicion and cheek-by-jowl
with this was the first despatch
from Europe to be published in
the Antipodean j ournal:
By a London paper we are in-
formed that in the weekly account
of clerical promotions the Kev. Mr,
Sheepshanks succeeds Dr. Mere-
wether in the Rectory of Bleating.
This would have been front-
page news even in the “S. M.
Herald” in 1953, and no doubt
it arrived in the largest ship to
visit the colony, and then in
harbor, the Cape of Good Hope
Castle, more than 1000 tons,
which had come through the
Bass Straits (in spite of a rock
which had been discovered there
by Admiral Rainier and squad-
ron and which figured in the
news for months). This vessel
brought 307 Bengal cows, some
of which sold at £2B a head to
the Government, and a respec-
able consignment of Bengal
rum, of which the agent, Mr.
Robert Campbell, was allowed
to land 4000 gallons immediately
for the “domestic use” of the
settlement. The whalers of the
Greenwich whaling-ship just
then in from Maoriland with
1700 barrels of sperm-oil no
doubt helped to dispose of it.
All these things we have
learned about on pages 1 and
2 of No. 1 of the “Gazette,” and
turning to pages 2 and 3 we find
that there has been little change
in methods of organising news in
the paper from that which pre-
vailed in 1803. Then, as now,
these pages of Sydney’s lead-
ing (and only) journal were de-
voted to “hot news” with im-
posing headings. The main
piece of it was about “Fire at
Woolwich Warren,” a repository
on the banks of the Thames in
which military stores were kept,
including substantial quantities
of prize goods from Tippoo’s
wars four years before. The head-
ing is quite startling in size, but
the celerity with which the news
had reached the “Gazette”
called, perhaps, for a little ex-
citement, since the event was
only a little over nine months
old, having taken place on May
20, 1802. It filled a whole
column of solid type at the right-
hand head of page 2 ; the right-
hand top corner, so much prized
by advertisers and reporters
with something sensational to
say, was devoted, rightly, to a
dazzling scoop bearing the cap-
tion—set as large as was physi-
cally possible:
EXTRACTS FROM THE REPORTS
OP THE SOCIETY FOR BETTER-
ING THE CONDITION AND IN-
CREASING THE COMFORTS OF
THE POOR.
(From an Account of the Advan-
tage of a Cottager Keeping a Pig)
by the Rev. Dr. Glaise.
This exciting narrative con-
cerned Mr. James Bromsgrove,
a farm-laborer of Greenford, in
Middlesex, proud owner of a
wife and five children who had
essayed the adventure of buying
a hog in April and feeding it 3i
quarters of beans and seven
bushels of pease, “mostly bought
oh credit” and paid for out of
the £2 a week he, his wife and
two daughters under 12 jointly
earned. Cherishing this delight-
ful animal, the honest fellow
slaughtered it at Michaelmas,
when it was 64 stone 31b. in
weight. He sold some at 7d. a
pound and ate the rest with the
help of his progeny, thus “prov-
ing not only the pecuniary profit
produced but the superior tone
of industry and oeconomy” which
he acquired. No doubt this item
was mentioned on the
“Gazette’s” poster that day.
The central column of the
new paper, flanked on one hand
by fire at Woolwich and
“oeconomy and pork” in Middle-
sex on the other, was given over
to a trivial local happening, the
kind of thing that one might ex-
pect to occur every day in a dull
Antipodean community far re-
moved from the real excitements
of the world. It was chronicled
under the rather small single
heading “Fugitives” with an air
almost of apology for using it
at all.
It appeared that in the bucolic
suburb of Castle Hill three
weeks before 15 laboring men,
“after committing many acts of
violence and atrocity at the
house of M. Declame,” cleared
it completely out of everything
movable before calling at the
dwellings of Messrs. Bradley and
Bean, a couple of worthy Gov-
ernment tradesmen at Baulkham
Hills —one of them planned the
“Rum Hospital.” At Bradley’s
they contented themselves with
merely firing a pistol at the face
of one of Mr. Bradley’s servitors,
which, in consequence, became
“so shattered as to render him
a ghastly spectacle.” In Mrs.
Bean’s house they “gave a loose
to sensuality, equally brutal and
unmanly,” so that “resistance
was of no avail, for their
capacity was unbridled.”
Then this “licentious banditti”
proceeded to “numerous other
delinquencies,” but it is good to
know that “their ravages could
not long escape the tread of
Justice.”
A brace of them were picked
up next day by young John
Jamison and Mr. Andrew
Thomson, Chief Constable of the
Hawkesbury, who had been ex-
ported from the Scottish border
at the age of 16 for burning a
heap of straw and who lived to
become Bligh’s factor and to
leave a fortune estimated at
£25,000 —a quarter of it to Gov-
ernor Macquarie, The re-
mainder of the villains were soon
secured asleep in a lair between
the mountains and the Nepean,
to which their pursuers were
guided by blacks.
They all claimed that they
had been engaged merely in an
innocent bit of pilfering to fit
them out to walk home to Ire-
land.
The “Gazette” was able to ex-
plain that “in justice to the
prisoners at large in the colony
.... this banditti is entirely com-
posed of Irish prisoners brought
by the Hercules and Atlas.”
The paper rightly refused to
get excited about them, either
in its first or the subsequent
issues in which it described their
fate. Not even the fact that they
appear to have been the only
bushrangers ever born who had
names suitable to their estate
called for any sensational dis-
play. What would the Aus-
tralian Press do in modern times
with two bandits whose names
were Michael Woollaghen and
Timothy Malahoy?
The “Gazette,” however, dis-
posed of them with great calm.
It recorded how the magistrates,
in committing them, “pointed
out the destructive consequences
that ever must attend on pro-
jects so rashly conceived, so
truly dangerous to order and
society and certain in the end
of a fatal termination to the
unthinking depredator” an
ominous conclusion which justi-
fied itself, since a criminal court,
in very short order, neatly hung
up two of the villains from a
cart-tail, and the editor then had
to publish Australian journal-
ism’s first apology and with-
drawal, through having pro-
claimed the wrong criminal to
be penitent at “the fatal tree” at
Castle Hill, after the Rev. Mr.
Marsden had, “with his usual
fervor,” presented the pair with
“the only balsam that could
alleviate the agonies of reprobat-
ing conscience.”
The back-page of the
“Gazette’s” issue of March 5,
1803, completed the news of the
day. Shipping items told that
H.M.S. Buffalo and Porpoise,
those ancient naval hulks so fre-
quently heard of in history,
usually at anchor, were in
harbor, while the sprightly little
Lady Nelson (as usual) was
bound for somewhere dangerous.
There were markets at the Gov-
ernment wharf with full-grown
fowls at 2s. 6d. and potatoes 10s.
to 12s. per 1001 b. and melons 4s.
a dozen. There was a civil action
about a mare in which Mr.
Richard Fitzgerald, an exemplary
convict, later the agent of the
Macarthurs and correspondent
of the Macquaries, successfully
sued Samuel Allen, a cause
which “appeared highly interest-
ing to a crowded auditory.”
There were a variety of acci-
dents—a horse fell on a broken
shaft and cut itself ; the musket
of a constable in pursuit of the
Castle Hill fugitives “went off”
and “shot a laboring man
through the body who soon
expired.”
Sex, of course, reared its head,
but, fortunately, far away;
An English Paper informs us that
a practice equally disgraceful and
immoral had been prevalent in the
Town of Manchester since the rati-
fication of the Treaty of Peace.
Wives had been publicly exhibited
for sale; good ones, being scarce,
brought a good price.... but the
market being overstocked with those
of a contrary description, they sold
for little or nothing. Much to the
credit of the Magistrates they sup-
pressed the growing .evil and re-
stored the fair sex to their “original”
value.
It wasn’t so far-fetched —it
happened here, too, at intervals,
until Governor Macquarie put a
stop to it after a lady had been
submitted to auction in Thomp-
son-square, in Windsor, in 1811.
The first issue of the “Gazette”
contained everything a pioneer
journal should have except
poetry, and that turned up in
the second, the first verse in
Australasian journalism;
A Rum Effect.
“My wife’s so very bad,” cry’d
Phill
“I’m sure she’ll never hold it,”
“She keeps her bed.” “Mine’s worse,”
said Wi11....
“The jade this morning sold it.”
As a circulation-builder the
editor promised that future
copies would carry a table show-
ing the times of high-water at
Sydney and Parramatta.
It is. good to be able to record
that George Howe, the editor,
had a long and successful innings
in journalism, as did his son and
successor Robert. It was adven-
turous, sometimes turbulent, but
no doubt enjoyable. They saw
the hunt for Bligh on the “ever
memorable day of revolution”
in January, 1808, and, when it
raged through their printery,
watched, with some satisfac-
tion, Lieutenant Laycock fall out
of their paper-loft on “his prin-
cipal joint.”
Theirs was the first Australian
paper to be suppressed —during
Johnston’s interregnum. They
were the first paper-editors to
fight a libel action —they won it.
They were the first to be
threatened with action for con-
tempt of court, and therefore the
first to get established the prin-
ciple that opinion was free—in
1817 by Mr. Judge-Advocate
Wylde, who refused to have
them dealt with because he
looked on a leading article as a
statement of opinion which
should not be penalised,by his
court.
They published the work of
the first “poet laureate,” and the
reports of every event of im-
portance for 40 years, includ-
ing those of the first race-meet-
ings and the crossing of the Blue
Mountains.
Robert Howe (d. 1829), after
his father had been put away
under a monument designed by
Green way in 1821, was the fifst
editor in Australia, and perhaps-
the last, to get himself stabbed.
And he was the first man to pub-
lish an Australian literary work
by an Australian printed in
Australia—the Wild Notes from
the Lyre of a Native Minstrel,
printed for Charles Tompson,
our first native-born poet, in
1826.
If they sound a little old-
fashioned and cautious beside the
modern reporter it was probably
because they lived nearer to the
wrath of Providence, which
apparently kept a close supervi-
sion over them. Did not a fire-
ball come sneaking into the
“Gazette” office one Sunday
afternoon in January, 1810, as
one of them sat reading proofs
during the hours when he should
have been in Sunday-school, and
bowl him clean off his stool?
Editors might be better men
in these days if that sort of thing
happened to them occasionally.
THE LOST NAME
Horse went weary,
Dog went lame.
Stopped for a spell
And lost me name.
Put it under
Me old felt hat
Lest it blister
And warp in the heat.
Sun went cloudy,
So did me eyes;
Went to sleep
With the leaves and the flies
Lyin’ under
Box-tree shade.
Whirlwind come,
Whirlwind played
Now you see it
Now you don’t.
Snatched me hat,
Snatched me name,
Spun them over
The black-soil flat.
Woke up sudden,
Woke with a shout
Up on me legs
And I went chasin’.
Horse took fright
And horse went racin’,
Jumped last week
And Wednesday night.
Lost him somewhere
Two years back—
Rain come on
And I couldn’t track.
Dog whined lazy.
Dog wouldn’t foller,
Chained him u*-<
To half-nast four.
Left him lickin’
Spit on his paw.
Ran me name
To the edge of tomorrer;
Come against midnight,
Couldn’t get over.
Seen the day
I’d climb next year
To pick an unbloomed
Rose for me dear.
Now all I got
What 1 come in with.
Save a bit more size
And a shred of clothes;
But it don’t matter,
I’ll dig me a patch
Down by the creek
And sow a seed;
Feed it me life
And all I need;
Water it cautious
And pull the weeds;
And sometime cornin’
It’ll flower red ,
And bloom me a name
Before I’m dead.
N.S.W.
ERIC C. ROLLS.


before dinner...
CINZANO
..^rmcutb^
r *^scocui^®
worlds
the
javouritet ®
appetiser!
&
VERMOUTHS
SWEET, DRY AND BIANCO
tPHnwuS Since JBI6
cm i
SPORTING NOTIONS
All seven favorites were beaten
at Rand wick when the A.J.C.
conducted its January meeting,
bat four of the winners—Begum,
Gay Vista, La Hey and Poitiers
—had strong support. Fourteen
successive favorites have now
been defeated at Sydney meet-
ings, but over the past few weeks
takers of the odds have, in the
main, more than held their own.
Royal Impression gave the
Randwick ringmen a “skinner,”
while Bexley and Jenny Lind
also were Welcome outsiders
Caulfield punters, however, were
on the spot, the only outsider to
assist bookmakers being Graft-
spear in the Kingston Stakes for
two-year-olds.
Gay Vista, having his second
race start, had an easy task in
winning the Randwick Juvenile
Encourage for colts and geldings.
He was much too solid for
favorite Alpine Law, whose posi-
tion at head of the betting list
was no little surprise to trainer
Fil Allotta.
Gay Vista is prepared at
Rosebery by Leo O’Sullivan,
who later in the day won with
Poitiers and supplied third-place-
getter, Blank Music, in the final
event. It would have been a
field-day for Leo had Blank
Music scored. He has trained
many horses over the years, best
being Gilltown, twice winner of
the Moonee Valley Cup (1939,
1940). Bill Cook, who won on
Gilltown in his second Cup, has
long been friendly with
O’Sullivan and has ridden many
winners for the stable. He
piloted Gay Vista. The gelding
is by Port Vista (imp.) from Gay
Fault. Port Vista won races at
Ascot (Eng.). His oldest
progeny are three-year-olds, and
with more experience Gay Vista
might prove one of his best.
Almost every second person at
Randwick last Saturday “knew”
the “good thing” of the day was
in the last race —Insurance! It
didn’t pan out that way, though
the tip, slung on all sides, was
reflected in the betting-ring. Best
price was 7 to 2, but one bet
noted was £5OOO to £2OOO. Many
other thousands were invested on
the six-year-old Talking gelding,
though he hadn’t raced with
success since the 1951 Melbourne
Cup meeting, when he won the
Veteran Stakes, 12 furlongs.
Imported Jambo, a son of
English stayer Felicitation (Ascot
Gold Cup, 2\ miles, Newmarket
J.C. Cup, 2i miles, and other
long-distance events), has made
a good start at the stud in N.S.W.
In his initial season his progeny
include unbeaten flying filly
Love To All and last Saturday’s
Randwick winner, Begum.
Latter is raced by R. A. Cant,
and trained at Rosebery by Jim
Mackinnon, who was confident
of success as the filly had been
galloping freely. She had started
twice previously for a close
second to Golden Apple at
Canterbury Park. Begum’s dam.
Circulation, bred in 1938, was
got by Law Maker (imp.) from
Bretby by Manfred. Hot favorite
for the race, Jati (5-to-4-on), was
third, at no stage flattering
supporters.
Some horse-owners put down
a brick and pick up a house.
This was the luck of a Mel-
bourne Italian fruiterer R.
Taranto, who races Caulfield
two-year-old winner Graftspear,
15-to-l winner of the Kingston
Stakes. Taranto bought the colt
and his dam. New Song, for
110 guineas. Graftspear was
then a foal at foot. Veteran
trainer J. M. Bence had the
youngster fit to win, but the
stable didn’t profit greatly apart
from prizemoney. It was a £750
race. The colt’s sire, Flare Path
(imp.), is a Fairway stallion.
Back in the pedigree on the
dam’s side of Abroath, Caulfield
three-year-old winner last
Saturday, figures unbeaten
Grand Flaneur. The colt’s sire,
Angus (imp.), is a son of
Cameronian and is located at T.
C. Manifold’s Victorian stud.
Manifold bred Abroath and
races the smart colt, who has
won two of his last three races.
Glorious Devon, dam of the
colt, is by Devonshire (imp.).
Brisbane punters had mixed
luck at the Doomben meeting.
The two-year-old favorites were
beaten, but winner Rim Huff
(5 to 2) had many admirers for
the colts’ division. Browndel, a
7-to-l shot, was too solid for the
fillies. She is a daughter of
Hindu Prince, a Dhoti (imp.)
sire located at Dalby (Q.) and
expected to get many sprint
winners. Rimveil, sire of La
Hey, a Randwick winner last
Saturday, sired Rim Huff, whose
dam, Huff, bred in 1941, was
got by Hua from Tessie by Chief
Ruler (imp.). Rimveil was a
good miler. He won the A.J.C.
Epsom Villiers Stakes.
Highlights of the Tasmanian
Turf Club’s four-days’ carnival
at Mowbray racetrack, January
24, 26, 28 and 31, are the run-
ning of the Tasmanian Derby
and the Launceston Cup. Latter
is worth £llOO and a £l3O gold
cup, and is run at 1£ mile. It
is the main attraction of the
third day. The Cup was first de-
cided in 1866. Last year’s
winner, English, carried 9st. and
beat 12 others in Tar-
combe, 1950 winner, is the
record-time holder, 2.29*.
The A.J.C.’s £2OOO Challenge
Stakes, main event on this com-
ing Saturday’s Randwick pro-
gramme,' has been won by the
favorite in the past three years
and by five favorites in the last
six years. Last summer True
Leader, 6-to-4-on, beat Blue
Flag and Chastise. Donegal was
the winning favorite, at 3 to 1, in
1951, and San Domenico, at
“Never, Arnold! You Were bowled first ball for a duck!
5 to 4, in 1950. San Domenico
also won the sprint the previous
year at 5 to 1, the unplaced elect
being Caruso at 3’s. Gay
Monarch, 9 to 4, was the winning
first-fancy in 1948, while Brazier
started best at 9 to 2 and won in
1947.
Strongly fancied horses have
in recent years also landed
the second leg of the double, the
Anniversary Handicap (run next
Monday). Favorites to score
were Persist (1951), at 3 to 1,
Transaction (1949), at 5 to 2,
Crusader (1948), at 6 to 4, and
Russia (1945), at 5 to 2. Hottest
favorite to win either event was
Feminist (3-to-l-on) in the 1941
Anniversary.
Evidently Sydney doubles
bookmakers believe Bob Cherry,
crack English sprinter and yet to
start in a race in Sydney, is ready
to win at first appearance, be-
cause they have him favorite for
the Challenge. This opinion isn’t
shared by many who saw the
importation in a Randwick
barrier trial last week and have
watched his track doings. They
hold the view that Bob Cherry
may need a sharpening race be-
fore striking form —perhaps a
couple, against fast opposition.
La Hey won well enough last
week to hold a strong chance
in the Challenge, while Blue
Flag and Bankbrook also look
sound prospects. Cymbidium
still is elect for the Anniversary
Handicap, despite last Satur-
day’s failure. She might do
better over the longer distance
and in the hands of a more
experienced and stronger horse-
man. Her opponents in the
holiday race will comprise a
modest bunch.
* * *
Confounding the gloomy fore-
bodings of some of the experts
when it was left unchanged after
its setback in the second Test,
Hassett’s XI soundly thrashed
the South Africans in the third
Test. There was well over a
day left to play.
With Lindwall and Miller
pelting ’em down as good as
ever and Harvey in great form
with the bat, the Australians were
on top nearly all the way. Worth
mention also, Hole s four neai
slip-catches in South Africa s
second knock. In that
innings there were never-say-
die efforts from Endean, Mc-
Lean and Watkins. South Africa
173 (Funston 56; Lindwall
4-40, Miller 3-48) and 232
(Endean 71, McLean 65,
Watkins 48 ; Lindwall 4-72);
Australia 443 (Harvey 190, Mc-
Donald 67, Ring 58, Miller 55 ;
Murray 4-169, Tayfield 3-94).
For the next encounter, at
Adelaide, one change has been
made in Hassett’s dozen lan
Craig, youngest player ever to
be chosen for Australia, in place
of Jim de Courcy, who was
drink-waiter in the last two
Tests. De Courcy thus suffers
the fate of Ken Meuleman, who
was 12th man in the first two
1946-47 Tests against England
and was then dropped. Meule-
man has since been right out of
Test consideration ; De Courcy’s
dismissal, however, may not be
so final.
In Adelaide the Springboks will
be without all-rounder Murray,
out with appendicitis, and
may be without star off-spinner
Tayfield, who has a fractured
left thumb and did not bat in
the second innings in the last
Test. Tayfield has taken 20
wickets in the three Tests, one
more than has Lindwall, most
successful of the Australian
trundlers. .
After the Test the Springboks
flew to Tassie, to give the locals
a bit of a trouncing in Hobart.
Best performance for the home
team was Hird’s medium-paced
bowling. S. Africa 290 (Funston
109 n. 0., Mansell 75; Hird
8-82); Tas. 35 (Melle 5-7) and
133 (Smith 51 ; Melle 4-37, Keith
4-38). Then the two teams (both
practically the same) moved
north to Launceston to battle
again, after which the visitors
play the fourth Test.
Harvey is so far well ahead in
the batting averages —422 runs,
av. 84.4. Among the Australians
McDonald is next (216, av. 43.2).
Best two S’Africans are Endean
(279, av. 55.8) and Funston (205,
av. 34.1). Among the bpwlers
Lindwall has taken 19 wickets,
av. 17.7 ; Miller 13 at 18.4. For
S’Africa Tayfield 20 at 21.7,
Melle 12 at 31.3.
♦ * * *
Eighteen-year-old Ken Rose-
wall achieved what all his
admirers had taken for granted
that he would eventually, but
rather sooner than most had
anticipated, when he won the
Australian lawn-tennis singles
championship at Kooyong
[Vic.) on Saturday. He made no
bones about the job, defeating
Victorian left-hander Mervyn
Rose, member of the 1951 Davis
Cup team and dropped only
through illness this year, in
straight sets —6-0, 6-3, 6-4,
Rosewall won the first 10
games in a row, and all round it
was the soundest hiding handed
out in an Australian final since
Budge obliterated John
Bromwich. There may be a
lesson in that for the aspiring
weekend player; Budge and
Rosewall play the two best back-
hands present writer has seen.
Rosewall had much the
tougher passage through to the
final, having to eliminate the
formidable Seixas. Hoad, who
had been picked as spare man
in the Davis Cup final, disap-
pointed admirers but did not
surprise those who assess him as
a shade too erratic to ever be
the superior of his classmate,
Rosewall, when he was
eliminated early by the unseeded
Westralian Wilderspin.
• • • •
If there was any psychological
factor involved in the final, Rose
may have had some sense of
inferiority after the belting he
and Candy had taken at the
hands of Rosewall and Hoad.
The youngsters won that title
9-11, 6-4, 10-8, 6-4, becoming
the youngest pair ever to win the
Australian doubles, as Rosewall
is the youngest ever to take the
singles.
On the score of age of winners,
the 1952 championships set a
record which might not be
beaten for many, many years.
Only one of the five players
who were winners in the five
major finals was over 18 years
of age! The “veteran” was
the young Victorian R. Hartwig,
who, with the American lass
Julie Sampson, beat the Ameri-
can pair Maureen Connolly and
Ham Richardson, 6-3, 6-2, in the
mixed doubles. Miss Sampson
is 18, as are Rosewall, Hoad
and Miss Connolly, who de-
feated Miss Sampson in the
women’s singles and partnered
her to victory in the doubles.
Dai Rees, the little Welsh pro.
who topped the popularity stakes
when here for the last Mc-
Williams’ Wines tourney, won’t
be here for the one listed for
next March. He’s got some
shoulder trouble which has
stopped his competitive golf.
• • • *
The 1951 British Open champ..
Max Faulkner, hopes to tee-up
for the McWilliams’ at the Aus r
tralian Club’s Kensington
(Sydney) course in March.
Harry Weetman, a Ryder Cup
player and winner of the Harry
Vardon trophy (it goes to the
pro. with the lowest stroke-
average for the season in
Britain), wants to come with him.
The McWilliams’ event will
be the fifth since it began in 1949.
Though top British and New
Zealand pros, have come after the
big money it has so far stayed
with Aussie’s Von Nida (1949,
’5l, ’52) and Eric Cremin (’5O).
The locals are hard to shake on
their own diggings.
* * * *
A stable-mate of world ban-
tamweight champion Jimmy
Carruthers, Alfie Webster
(8-13 i) gave Ray Coleman
(9-0) a great argument at Leich-
hardt. In fact, nearing the end
of the final round Webster
looked a good thing to win on
points. But Coleman scored two
quick knockdowns, and with
only a few seconds left for battle,
ref. Art Mawson crowned Cole-
man winner on a t.k.o. The de-
cision was subject to some dis-
pute by the Leichhardt crowd—
if that’s news.


3&ALI-B&ITISH
imwmi
s
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart fir Co. Ltd*
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
The Radio audience—-the nation over agree:
fa
oitßm
DAVEY
in
Australia's biggest
and brightest quiz show
GIVE IT A GO
on Monday nights at 8
presented by the makers of PERSIL
and produced by the Macquarie Broadcasting Service.
2GB • 3AW • 4BH • SDN • 6IX • 7HO
2HR 2CA 2WL 2PK 2MW 2LT 2MG 2LF 3CV 4BU 4GY 6WB 6MD 7LA
and also heard over 38 other stations throughout Australia.
Behind the Iron Curtain
INTELLECTUALS
UNDER STALIN
By B. D. SINGER
WHY have we no Sovie
Gogols or Tolstoys?
This complaint has re
cently been repeated
time after time by both critics
and official spokesmen in the
Soviet Union.
They have to admit that no
masterpieces worthy of the
great Russian literary tradition
have been produced in the
Stalinist era, that Soviet novels,
even if they fulfil some immedi-
ate function, are ephemeral.
New plays similarly meet
some need of the moment, are
boosted for a period and then
sink into oblivion. It is sufficient
to glance regularly at Moscow’s
theatrical repertoire to see this.
Foreign plays, particularly the
classics, are very popular (e.g.,
Sheridan’s “School for Scandal,”
Beaumarchais’s “Figaro” and
Shaw’s “Pygmalion” are on in
Moscow at this time). Even
greater popularity is enjoyed by
Gogol, Chekhov and other
Russian masters. These have
the longest runs, and then, after
an interval, make a welcome
comeback. Works of Soviet
playwrights, on the other hand,
run usually for a short period
only and fail to arouse the
public’s interest.
It is understandable that such
a state of affairs makes the
Communist-party propagandists
ponder. Yet their question about
the lack of Soviet masterpieces
is largely rhetorical. They know
not only the reasons for it but
also the fact that it is inevitable.
“Don’t blame the mirror when
the face is ugly,” says a
Ukrainian proverb, which Gogol
took as a motto for his Govern-
ment Inspector. Soviet art, how-
ever, has been ordered to act
not as a mirror but as a beauty-
parlor. Soviet artists know so
well that they may be held
responsible for any objection-
able blemish or wrinkle in the
final picture that they impose
upon themselves a preliminary
censorship.
The Tolstoys and the Chek-
hovs faithfully portrayed their
epoch even though the Tsarist
censorship tried to gag them.
Their descendants fail to express
any real trends in Soviet life be-
cause they follow safe patterns
in accordance with the latest
directives of the party.
No wonder that their output is
not inspiring. In three recent
novels which I have read the
effect of production, the fulfil-
ment of targets were the real
dramatis personce. In one case
it was the production of ships,
in another of steel, in the third
of precision instruments.
Generally speaking, many
writers seem more expert at tech-
nology than at psychology. It
is astonishing to see how duti-
fully the characters of a novel
behave. The girls fall in love
only with those men who fight
for the Five Year Plan, who
fulfil the Plan, who sow well,
plough well and reap well.
Literature draws themes and
inspiration mainly from current
events. The latest decree takes
on the shape of a novel in no
time. The controversy over
Lysenko’s biological theories,
the decrees on afforestation, the
new price - regulations have
already left their mark on belles
lettres. The novelists show how
these decrees are made to work
and to yield the expected bene-
ficial results. There is hardly
any room for the play of light
and shadow. The sky in their
novels is cloudless, and every-
thing stands in the full blaze of
the sun.
The element of contrast is
provided by the stray black
sheep, usually brought back to
the flock in the end, or by
“foreign imperialists,” for
literature has to play its part in
anti-American propaganda.
Thus a recent play dealt with
American atrocities in Arch-
angel during the period of capi-
talist intervention 30 years ago.
Another is now being rehearsed
—the “Jackals,” by the Estonian
writer Jacobson—-which shows,
according to a Russian critic,
how “not only the politics but
also the science of the canni-
balistic American imperialism
has become pure gangsterism.”
Probably the Soviet public is
repelled not so much by the
propaganda as by its crudity.
For the Russian has enough
crude propaganda in his Press
and radio, in his daily life. He
goes to the theatre for enter-
tainment or to enjoy subtler
emotions, and these the great
masters provide much better.
This is one of the spheres in
which the Soviet public is
allowed to “vote,” to show its
choice by flocking to one play
and neglecting another.
The Russian rulers would like
to square the circle: they want a
Chekhov who will write to the
party directive. Their dilemma
is illustrated by the somersaults
performed by official policy to-
wards art and literature. For a
period after the war a dose of
liberalism was allowed. Novels
remained predominately politi-
cal, but writers tried to recon-
cile propagandist purposes with
a measure of realism.
Toward the end of 1946 the
drastic change occurred; the
late Andrei Zhdanov banged his
fist on the table. Backed by the
Central Committee he ordered:
“We demand that our comrades,
the writers and literary directors
.alike, should be guided by
policy, that our youth be edu-
cated riot in a spirit of cynic-
ism but in a spirit of revolution-
ary vigor,”
Control was immediately
tightened, and literature became
a tool of reconstruction and the
struggle with the West. Yet, as
time went on it appeared that
the new policy went too far, the
measures were self-defeating,
Zhdanov died and the up-and-
coming Malenkov was reputed
to favor a more liberal policy.
The improvement in material
conditions also allowed greater
latitude. A symptom of the new
mood was the launching at the
beginning of 1952 of a discus-
sion on the positive and negative
heroes in Soviet art.
In April “Pravda,” the party’s
official organ, joined in the dis-
cussion and accused Soviet
writers of neglecting negative
characters. It seemed that a
more realistic treatment, the
portrayal of the seamy side of
Soviet life, had at last got official
blessing. Still the writers did
not venture into this newly-
opened field, and their prudence
has proved justified. At the re-
cent All-union Congress Malen-
kov himself clearly set limits to
the freedom left to the artist;
“Our writers and artists,” he
said, “must always bear in mind
that the typical is not only what
is most often met with. Typical
is that which vividly and fully
expresses the - essence of the
• u
given social force.... the prob-
ler £ .°* is always a
political problem.”
Tbis waS a dmely , reminder
* . Russia must be painted not
as it is but as it ought to be.
Thus, the Soviet artist, though
less repressed than at the hei B ht
of the Zhdanov P eriod > stid
lacks the scope indls P ensab l e f °r
any £reativ e work. His material
condlti ? ns ’ on the other band >
are erma ble. The great national
i lterar y monthlies “Oktyabr,”
<Nov yi Mir,” “Znamia” and a
score of P rovincia l ones repre-
sent an inexhaustible demand for
novels, short stories, poems,
essays and so on. Fees and
royalties are handsome. Every
year a score of titles appear on
the list of books awarded the
Stalin prize, and these sell in
millions of copies.
The State also looks after the
material needs of less fortunate
writers. The State publishers are
extremely liberal with advances,
By special arrangement with the “Economist ” this
Bulletin feature, giving up-to-the-minute informa-
tion on current developments, “Behind the Iron
Curtain,” appears each month.
But this freedom from want
has been purchased at the cost
of the freedom of expression. In
Tsarist times writers were
idolised in Russia more than in
any other country because they
provided an outlet for popular
discontent. They were either the
conscious leaders of rebellion or
they sapped the regime indirectly
through their creative writing.
By mocking the reigning bureau-
cracy they undermined its pro-
tector, the autocrat. Now
Soviet artists have become a
branch of the bureaucracy itself.
Before the revolution the edu-
cated classes were a small
minority, and sometimes loosely
referred to as the intelligentsia.
More often, however, this term
was applied to a narrower class-
less group of writers and critics,
historians or social thinkers who
were the vanguard of revolt.
These have now been trans-
formed into something very like
the civil-servant. Yet potentially
they remain the most disruptive
group in Soviet society—the
would-be champions of liberty
and equality.
Stalin was well aware of this
when he shaped Soviet society,
and for once his political and
economic interests coincided,
When he embarked on a gigantic
industrial revolution he needed
not . literati, but experts, tech-
nicians, managers. The em-
phasis was on engineers, agrono-
mists, physicians and physicists,
As education spread, the proper-
tion of illiterates in the popula-
tion, which was three-quarters
at the turn of the century, fell to
one-half in 1926, to less than a
quarter before the war and to
relatively very little now.
In the process the intelligentsia
was transformed from a sophis-
ticated elite into a less sophisti-
cated but incomparably more
numerous group. Already before
the war Molotov could boast
that the Soviet Union had an
intelligentsia over nine million
strong. Yet only about one-
tenth of this number had higher
education ;* the remainder had
matriculation or a technical
equivalent. On a comparable
basis the intelligentsia is now
probably 15 million strong, and
the ratio of graduates has some-
what risen.
To credit this new class or
group, born from the bureau-
cratic managerial revolution,
with any designs against the
regime would be naive. It is a
product of Stalinism, under
which some 90 per cent, of its
members have been educated,
and it has a vested interest in
the regime; it enjoys both eco-
nomic and social privileges.
On the other hand, this class
has ample cause for uneasiness.
Not all the local bosses are satis-
fied with ordering their subordi-
nates and obeying blindly their
superiors. There is a general
feeling of insecurity. A new
type of character has arisen—a
sort of bureaucratic Hamlet —-
who shirks all decisions from
fear of taking responsibility. It
has recently been made fun of
in a witty Soviet satirical poem
entitled “Yes and No.”
More important still, even the
unsophisticated intelligentsia is
taught in the schools the rudi-
ments of scientific thinking. It is
also brought up on the classics of
Marxism and on the masterly
Russian critics of Tsarist society
—the Herzens, Bielinskys and
Tchernyshevskys. What if they
applied these critical tools to their
own environment? Yet Stalin-
ism cannot do without science,
nor can it deny its origins, or
obliterate the hallmarks of revo-
lution.
The rulers of Soviet society
may complain bitterly that they
have most trouble with their
favorite children—those edu-
cated and pushed forward by
the present regime. The larger
this educated class becomes the
greater will become its discon-
tent with the political environ-
ment, with the terror and oppres-
sion, with the constraints and
taboos of present-day Stalinism.
Yet its growth cannot be stopped
without arresting the economic
development of the country. The
two categorical imperatives of
Soviet rule —to tame and to spur
—must prove in the long run
contradictory. They must apply
the spur to get higher produc-
tion, and for that purpose they
must educate. But they must
find it increasingly difficult to
tame the educated.
This contradiction fore-
shadows the doom of Stalinism
as it now is ; or, to paraphase a
Marxist formula, Stalinism con-
tains within itself the seeds of
its own destruction.


THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LTD.
1834
1953
IaSTRi
Mtf
7
are many advantages in
banking with The Commercial Bank-
ing Company of Sydney Limited.
The Bank’s organisation and
facilities are modern. The Bank has
strength and adequate resources; it
has 118 years’ financial experience;
its service is traditionally personal
and friendly.
The manager of any branch of
the Bank will gladly tell you about
the Bank and the facilities it pro-
vides.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FRANCO AS AN ALLY
As far back as three years ago
an American report gave details
of a U.S.-Franco deal whereby
Uncle Sam had been given rights
to lay down air-bases in Spain
in return for economic aid.
The report apparently
infuriated sections in Britain
who held that the world, includ-
ing Britain, would be better lost
than that it should be dependent
even on the passive help of such
as Franco.
Less politically sentimental,
and with more reason, the French
were really appalled. They read
the report as indicating that
Uncle Sam was counting on
France being again overrun, and
so had fixed the Pyrenees as the
probable ultimate front line.
For these and like reasons the
deal was evidently reckoned poli-
tically risky and better post-
poned. Then U.N.0., in its best
busybody form, had Franco de-
clared anathema. Ambassadors
were withdrawn from Spain,
Franco was internationally
ostracised, and the Spanish, who
had been showing signs of waver-
ing under his dictatorship, natur-
ally redoubled their support of
him.
Then the U.S.-British dicker-
ings with Tito got going, and the
whole anti-Spanish business
became farcical. Now general
reports agree that the farce is to
be finally ended, at any rate as
far as the U.S. is concerned.
Washington correspondents of
various newspapers forecast this
as one of President Eisenhower’s
first steps —an open agreement
under which the U.S. will secure
both naval- and air-bases in
Spain.
Actually the U.S. Congress has
already authorised the expendi-
ture of about $100,000,000 on
military aid for Spain. There
will still, of course, be the usual
Communist outcry raised against
anything which helps to make
the West stronger and safer, but
there will also be non-Communist
opposition in both Britain and
France. This'is not at all likely
to be effective, for reasons well
stated in the course of an objec-
tive survey by Patrick Maitland
in Edinburgh “Scotsman”;
“It must be admitted that
much of the moral case against
having relations with a regime
which does not pretend to
accept the political tenets of the
North Atlantic Treaty, let alone
the United Nations Charter of
Human Rights, has been lost. It
went when political expediency,
bred of strategic opportunity,
bade the Western Powers, especi-
ally Britain and the United
States, parley with the Yugoslav
dictatorship.
“And what is an overriding
lesson, aside from the fallacy
that economic or moral sanctions
overthrow a regime, is that when
strategic opportunity knocks at
the door the pseudo-moralists of
political theory vanish forthwith.
“Marshal Tito’s break with
Moscow (involuntary though it
happened to be) could con-
veniently be hailed as defiance
of Stalin because of the strategic
opportunity it provided,
hundreds of murdered Orthodox
clergy and Archbishop Stepinac
notwithstanding....
“Overriding resolutions of the
Western Powers at the United
Nations, has been the considera-
tion that Spain’s strategic posi-
tion has been vastly enhanced
with Italy’s participation in, and
then the admission of Greece
and Turkey to, Nato. With
that has come recognition that
security in the Mediterranean is
an Atlantic responsibility.
“For Britain, of course, the
issue is not the same as for the
United States. British diplomatic
relations with Spain, since the
recovery of their full formality
with the appointment of Sir John
Balfour as Ambassador in
Madrid, have been Clouded by a
persistent topic. Until lately
almost every encounter between
the Spanish Ambassador in
London and the British Foreign
Secretary, and between the
British Ambassador in Madrid
and the Spanish Foreign
Minister, involved a British
refusal even for one minute to
begin to discuss Gibraltar. It
was wearisome and fussy of the
Spaniards to try to bring up
Gibraltar on every possible
occasion.
“Of course the fact that Spain
is now, .evidently, to conclude a
bases agreement with the United
States undermines the Spanish
argument about Gibraltar.
“On the broadest plane, how-
ever, and leaving aside sterile
controversies between London
and Madrid, the hard fact is that
under sustained air-attack from
any network of bases that might
be built in Spain, Gibraltar
would be difficult to hold. And
if air-bases could menace the
place, what of rocket-launching
sites? Spain’s neutrality, at the
least, is a vital British interest.
“But there is that country’s
relation to Atlantic communica-
tions. The base and dockyard
of Ferrol, at the north-west
— u Franc-Tireur , v Paris
HARRY TO IKE: “MY FINAL ADVICE-DON’T TRUST GENERALS!”
corner of Spain, could, in hostile
hands, be a menace to the sea-
routes between Great Britain and
the Mediterranean, indeed to the
Atlantic sea-community itself.
And the Canary Islands, which
stand out in the Atlantic about
600 miles south-south-west of the
south-west corner of Spain,
combine with Cadiz to dominate
the reception-end of the Atlantic
convoy-route to the Mediter-
ranean.
“Inside the Mediterranean the
island of Minorca has the de-
fended port of Mahon, which, in
hostile hands, could again
menace the route . between
Marseilles and North Africa, or
Gibraltar. Indeed, that port is
not far removed from the direct
convoy-route to Malta.
“TJie aerial significance of the
Iberian Peninsula is not far
different. An air-base requires,
to a greater or less degree, sup-
porting hinterland, and is there-
fore analogous in many ways to
a naval-base. The Spanish air-
bases, existing or potential, relate
either in friendly or hostile
fashion to the American air-
route to North Africa and the
Middle East.
“Whatever else Nato may
be able to accomplish in terms
of ground armies, the system of
air- and naval-bases in British,
United States and French care
along the length of the Mediter-
ranean is at least a stand-by for
the event of a collapse of armies
in Europe.
“Above all, Spain could, in the
event of a collapse in Europe,
be a reception retreat not unlike
the historic lines of Torres
Vedras. There are only two
practical overland routes into
Spain, at either end of the
virtually impassable Pyrenees.
“As an ally, Spain could be a
fortress ; as a netural she is indis-
pensable, and in strong enemy
hands she could be deadly.”
Americans at Large
“Like thb Romans of old,”
says “Washington Post,” “we
[Americans] are spreading upon
the world.”
In addition to military forces
numbered in hundreds of thou-
sands, it notes that the number
of American civilians and U.S.-
employed in various countries
abroad had grown from
7116 in 1940 to 91,224 in 1951:
“This is a new sort of army
of occupation, and its size raises
problems that have not been fully
recognised.
“Most of the employees—
-74,156 of them—have to do with
defence projects. But in Paris
are more than 1000 employees
of the American Embassy alone
—nearly a tenfold increase since
1939. This does not include
military personnel or the thou-
sands more employees of the
Mutual Security Agency and
the Special Representative in
Europe.
“The ‘Little America’ in Paris
is dwarfed only by that in Ger-
many, where there are more
than 5000 employees. Similar
situations exist in London and
Tokyo.
“The calibre of American ser-
vice abroad generally is high.
But the effectiveness is handi-
capped by the drones attracted
by sybaritic living—-by extrava-
gant housing allowances, cheap
liquor and more luxurious con-
ditions generally than many
could hope to obtain at home.
Not only do these conditions
present a distorted picture of
America, they also invite the re-
sentment of local peoples who
live on no such scale. No occu-
piers are ever popular, anyway
—despite the aid they may dis-
pense.”
Spy Trials
Comparing the haste in the
latest Communist trials of
alleged spies in the satellite
countries with protracted
American trials, “U.S. News and
World Report” outlines this
case:
A convicted spy in the U.S.
may haye his death sentence
postponed by years while he
exhausts his legal right to
appeals, reversals, pardon. In a
current U.S. spy case sentencing
took place on April 5, 1951.
Execution was set for May 21,
1951.
Appeals began on April 6.
Time extensions for filing briefs
followed. Hearing of appeal
came on January 10, 1952.
Appeal was denied on February
25. New appeals to the Supreme
Court came next. This process
took months. New execution
date, after the Supreme Court
refused to review the case, was
set for the week of January 12,
1953.
But a request to set aside the
death sentence came before the
courts. Next and last, request
to the President for commutation
will be in order.
Thus the spy in U.S., in this
case, has already lived a year
and a half beyond his scheduled
execution date. That is, the U.S.
has given him every chance to
prove the U.S. wrong.
The spies in Prague were
sentenced and hanged all within
six days.
Deified Joe
The deification of Joe reached
about the limit of blatahcy at the
late Moscow Congress. “Pravda”
gave this description:
Comrade Stalin rises from his
seat and with a firm and even step
goes to the rostrum. The ovation
mounts. Greetings are shouted in
various tongues. All that fills the
soul of a Soviet man, all that is best
in a Communist, is put into this
ovation, which expresses the love
and devotion of the party to its
leader. A minute passes , , . two
. . . three . . . The ovation grows
and grows like an avalanche. It
stops only when the desire to hear
Stalin’s words finally gains the
upper hand.
“One wonders,” commented
“Manchester Guardian,” “what
Communists in other countries
really think of all this syco-
phantism, this elevation of a
foreign dictator into something
like a god of the Communist
world. And when he dies will
they bow with equal dutifulness
before Molotov or Malenkov?”
In New York “Herald
Tribune” Professor Albert Parry,
a specialist on Russia, asks more
pertinent questions:
(1) Has Stalin himself come to
believe that he is divine?
(2) Do his people really believe
that he is their god?
Professor Parry quotes the
writer of a recent book, Post-
marked Moscow, to the effect
that Joe actually “considers him-
self God”:
As God, he shows himself very
seldom to mortal men. He is con-
stantly before them in pictures, in
statues, his every saying is
announced with reverence, but only
a ve.ry few have seen him in the
flesh.
“There is,” adds Parry, “a
possibility of Oriental mysticism
as well as Oriental shrewdness in
this Georgian who came to the
most unlimited power a man
ever had via an early study for
the priesthood and a later career
as a revolutionary firmly believ-
ing in his own infallibility.
Unlimited autocracy under such
circumstances can indeed become
sincere theocracy.
“But do his subjects believe in
Stalin’s divinity? Do the
broad masses of people believe
in Stalin’s divinity among other
precepts and slogans of Soviet
propaganda?
“Practically every Russian
within Russia gives an impres-
sion that he is all for Stalin and
the Soviets. He has no choice
but to praise the regime and
deify the leader. He wont
survive otherwise.
“The lie is so big and persistent
that, in the admission of even
anti-Soviet emigres, some of it
‘will stick to people’s minds.’
“Only the future will show
how much residue the big lie will


POST-HOLE DIGGING
AT ITS LOWEST COST!
THE MOBILCO POST-HOLE DIGGER WITH ELECTRIC POST BORER gives
you really low cost fencing. With it, one man
digs 30 clean, clear holes per hour 2 feet
8 inches deep and 6 to 12 inches in diameter.
Here's a machine which is easy to handle and
which operates at very low cost. 7 b.h.p.,
4-stroke engine. Guaranteed for 6
months.
YOURS FOR CASH OR ON TERMS.
ELECTRIC
POST-HOLE
BORER
m
mm
WRITE NOW FOR PARTICULARS OF THE
MOBILCO
POST-HOLE DIGGER
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
oIaP./.S« ,CE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
s£rfl« HES - ... - BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
AGENTS - - • . • ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
really leave behind. This
includes Big Brother's
‘divinity.’ ”
Middle East Defence
Edinburgh “Scotsman,’
usually very well informed on
British foreign policy, runs
special correspondent’s report
giying J. Bull, for a change,
good chance of talcing the lead-
ing role in Middle East defence,
“where the next round of the
‘cold war’ may well be fought.”
British Foreign Minister
Eden, he reports, has privately
stressed to his American and
French counterparts the great
British interest in that area “now
that Australia, New Zealand
and South Africa have agreed to
full participation” in the pro-
posed Middle East Command.
Pakistan is a further probable
British Commonwealth partici-
pant, and;
“In view of all this, Britain,
acting as the representative of
the whole Western world, hopes
to get the consent of the United
States and France to press ahead
with negotiations for a Middle
Eastern Defence Pact —assuming
that in the long run the Com-
mand will be in British hands.
Neither the U.S. State Depart-
ment nor the Quai d’Orsay is
enthusiastic about leaving affairs
to the British, but their objec-
tions may be unavailing, since
Britain for once holds very
strong cards.
“As a result of the Common-
wealth conference, Mr. Eden
now speaks with greater
authority on behalf of several
Dominions. Moreover, he will
certainly be in charge of British
foreign policy for the next six
months, whereas Mr. Acheson
will be out of office, and M.
Schuman’s chances of remaining
in office are not strong.
Stalin Could Win
Moscow strategy for this year
is seen in overseas comments to
consist of two main parts:
increased pressure on all the
Asian “fronts” and planned
moves to divide the Western
Allies.
Examining possibilities of both
parts of the strategy, a New York
“Herald Tribune” correspondent
sees this as a crucial year, with a
great deal depending on Eisen-
hower in person and U.S.
foreign - policy leadership in
general:
“If the passage of time brings
the Kremlin an Oriental victory
—in Indo-China, for example-
the strategic and political con-
sequences will be overwhelming
and will extend from Asia to
Europe.
“But this fact is very far from
clearly understood in such
countries as France and Britain,
where difficulties at home tend
to make even the wisest men
forget more remote dangers.
While the [Russian] pressure in
the Far East is being maintained,
the pressure in Europe has been
markedly relaxed. Soviet bully-
ing, unfortunately, has usually
been the stimulus to Wes-
tern unity. The second part of
the Soviet pattern is to with-
hold this stimulus and to en-
courage a break in the unity of
the West by all possible means.
“Here in some ways the
Kremlin has an almost better
bet than in the Far East. One
can point to a whole series of
rocks on which the frail craft
of Western unity can all too
easily founder.
“There is Korea; there is
Indo-China; there is Persia.
There is an ugly group of emerg-
ing problems in Africa. There is
a crisis in Nato military planning.
There is the possibility that
France or Germany will not vote
the European army, and will
thus leave the defence of Western
Europe without the keystone of
the arch the planned 12
German divisions. There is the
danger—perhaps the most worry-
ing of all—that a mild American
recession will touch-off a major
European depression with all the
terrible political and social con-
sequences that major depressions
always bring.
“Truly, the list is as long as it
is depressing; and each item on
the list is entirely capable of
plunging the Western Allies into
a chaos of mutual recrimination,
disloyalty and devil-take-the-
hindmost tactics.”
This Year's Europe
As seen in a survey by U.S.
business leaders on the Com-
mittee for Economic Develop-
ment, this is the general state of
Britain and Western Europe
facing up to what is considered
likely to prove an intensely test-
ing year :
Britain : Basic problem is still
inefficient production. Best
plants are as good as any in the
U.S.; second-line plants are not.
The British need more capital,
better management, more com-
petition. High taxes cut into
capital for investment. As to
labor, its attitude is good ;
workers, aren’t loafing on the job.
France: Things look better,
but still no real stability, not
while 60 per cent, of a worker’s
income goes for food. Distri-
bution system in France is a
mess—high mark-ups, small
turnover, little competition,
twice as many retail stores as
needed. High taxes have dried-
up the capital market. Total
tax-take in France is 35 per
cent, of gross national product,
against 27 per cent, in the U.S.
West Germany : A remarkable
comeback since the war. Pro-
ductivity rise of 4 to 5 per cent,
a year is the highest in Europe.
Need is capital for expansion.
Western Europe, over all:
Production 40 per cent, above
pre-war; output per worker up,
too. U.S. capital urgently
needed. Inflation under control,
the result of supply increases, not
Governmental controls over
prices and wages. World trade is
a major headache. Arms spend-
ing may have to be cut to ease
the tax burden and to favor
heavy industries vital to export
trade. Little talk of war noticed,
less fear of Stalin. Communist
strength on the wane throughout
Western Europe.
Dragnet Digest
Swiss Army. —Official Swiss
announcement states that 59 per
cent, of Switzerland’s male popu-
lation between the ages of 21
and 6Q are in the Army, which
has a strength of 750,000 fully-
trained men.
A ustrian Freedom. —“There
is,” suggests “New York Times,”
“no reason why Austria should
not, by its own right, proclaim
its independence and sovereignty
and then call on the Soviet
troops to leave as a condition for
the evacuation of Austria by the
West. If the Soviets refuse,
Austria could then appeal again
to the United Nations on a dif-
ferent and better basis than at
present, when it is a legal pawn
of the victors.”
Aided French. —Against the
fairly general impression that the
French have been battling in
Indo-China practically unaided,
Rawle Knox points out in
London “Observer” that the
material support of the
United States has been pro-
digious. Non-military economic
aid (including work on harbors
and airfields) is being given to
Indo-China at the rate of about
£35 million a year, while military
aid runs to over £lOO million a
year,
America’s / Gain. London
“Time and Tide” summing-up:
“Ever since the retreat from
Abadan it has been evident that
any agreement which followed
that great defeat must inevitably
be to the advantage of the United
States.”
Calmer Europe. —Lately back
from Western Europe, Joseph
Alsop has reported in New York
“Herald Tribune” on the
improved general atmosphere in
which it faces up to whatever
may be ahead this year: “There
are plenty of ugly things in the
atmosphere of Europe today,
such as increasing anti-
Americanism. But the climate
abroad has lost the hectic flavor
of the post-war period. Govern-
ments and individuals are settling
—London “News Chronicle”
“I wonder if IKE likes me ..."
into a kind of normality. And
this feeling that a kind of
normality is at last returning—
that every familiar landmark is
not any longer likely to be blown
sky-high by some crisis or other
—is a great balm in itself.”
“Peace.” London “News
Chronicle” recalls: “It was an
American who observed that
peace in international affairs is a
period of cheating in between
two periods of fighting.”
“People’s Europe —London
Labor “Daily Herald” editorial
comment: “The British Com-
munist party’s newspaper pub-
lishes a column called ‘lnside
People’s Europe’—the Com-
munist way of saying ‘Behind
the Iron Curtain.’ You deprive
populations of free speech ; you
suppress opposition parties ; you
place every citizen at the mercy
of the secret police; and you
call the countries so enslaved
‘People’s Europe.’ As Tommy
Trinder ironically says ‘You
lucky People! ’ ”
“ Liberation .” American
foreign - affairs commentator
David Lawrence, on the signs of
revolt and the ruthless purges
behind the Iron Curtain; “The
unrealistic in Britain and else :
where who condemned General
Eisenhower’s speech in the
Presidential campaign because he
dared to speak a word of
sympathy to these oppressed
peoples, and to tell them that
the conscience of America would
never rest till they were liberated,
will have to revise their com-
ments. At no time, of course,
did the General intend to adopt
the absurd policy maliciously
attributed to him by unimagina-
tive opponents—a policy of
sending American forces into
those countries to liberate the
people by the sword. But he
did see the value of moral force.”
U.N.O. Glasshouse. “For
new nations, small nations and
smaller colonies,” comments
London “Economist,” “the
temptation to strut their little
hour on U.N.O.’s stage is
irresistible. Through the great
glass windows they talk straight
to the homeland. Warmed and
comforted by civilisation’s
gadgets, they bask in the happy
illusion that speaking their
minds to the great Powers adds
to their own stature, and holds
no danger; They have yet to
learn that the game of invoking
public opinion is one which can
be played by both sides, and that
the glasshouse itself may shatter
if too many people throw too
many stones.”
World Jews. The first
organised census ever made of
world Jewry, announced by the
World Jewish Congress, esti-
mates that there are 11,672,000
Jews in 97 countries, about
6,400,000 fewer than there were
before World War 11. Pre-war
figures of 18,000,000 Jews were
based on scattered information,
but the W.J.C.’s enumeration is
compiled from figures supplied
by responsible Jewish organisa-
tions in the various lands.


It l>
0. It
V
?7
The Flying “Whale”
6XM
UR aeronautical cor-
JM respondent yesterday
v Je*s> inspected a strange
dirigible which is at present being
constructed by S. T. Pauly and
Durj Egg, Swiss gunsmiths. The
airship is to be propelled by oars
and fins, powered by a kind of
atmospheric steam engine in-
vented by Mr. Collier. To give
control in climb and descent, a
hinged horizontal fin with an ad-
LONDON, 18x6
justable ballast weight is fitted.
“Free Ballooning,” said Mr.
Pauly, “is a pleasant enough pas-
time. But my aim is to produce a
controllable aircraft which is fast
and efficient; an aircraft as
renowned for these qualities”
and here he paused as if lost for
a word “as is the BP Aviation
Service. The public may not yet
understand that comparison, but
they will, gentlemen, they will!”
SERVICE
AVIATION
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.. All States.
A wholly owned subsidiary of Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.
Now available on
heavy, white,
super-calendered
paper —*
"BILLY-
Cartoon
History
by
LOW"
Price, Is. 6d., post-free , j
from
The Bulletin,
Box 2521. G.P.0., Sydney
Box 55a, G.P.0., Melbourne
Box 569 J, G.P.0., Brisbane
The WAY HE HAD
by WILL LAWSON
Efficiency was a fetish
with Lieutenant Linkstone,
known familiarly among
his ship’s company as
“Linky.” He believed in doing
everything well, and, where pos-
sible, in doing it himself. A
famous athlete in his youth, and
still a champion, he seethed to
bubble over with energy, which
was more than his destroyer, the
Kashkin, did. She was a slug, but
a happy ship, manned by Aus-
tralian officers and ratings, with
some Chinese crewmen added.
As she wallowed along, smash-
ing into the swells from the
monsoon, which any other ship
would have ridden over, her
decks were mostly awash. The
only dry place, in fact, was right
aft, over the transom, where her
old propellers could be felt
thumping. Here, behind a
dodger, the after-guard off duty
would gather for a smoke and
a yarn. There were a couple of
deck-chairs for the high-ups,
and sometimes the skipper him-
I elf went there after tiffin for a
moke.
One day Linky decided that
he crew needed some boat-drill,
rle could not remember when
hey had it last. And, to see just
low alert his men were, he de-
eded to make it a real alarm.
He explained it all to Bub,
Lieutenant Martin, his Nu/nber
□ne.
“Look here, Martin,” he said.
“In a couple of minutes I’m
going to jump overboard. No
sharks worth mentioning here.
Only you will know I’m going.
When you see me go, shout
‘man overboard’ and throw a
lifebelt. Then we’ll see just
how smart this ship can be.”
“Can’t I do it, sir?” Martin
objected. He knew the skipper
could swim well, but he didn’t
like the idea of the commander
jumping into the water in cold
blood. “I could do it,” he
urged.
“No, no. I’ll do it. Make
’em jump to it. You check
things and report to me later.”
The loot walked away, but
kept his eyes on the commander.
Soon he saw him walk to the
rail aft, appear to stumble, then
tumble head-first over the side,
with a shout and a splash,
“Man overboard!” Martin
yelled; and every man in the
ship rushed to the boats.
THE second-mate on the bridge
acted like a handbook of
Naval routine. He rang the port
engine full ahead, the starboard
fpll astern, threw his helm hard
up and blew the siren. The
Kashkin swept in a wide circle,
the commander, swimming
strongly, in the centre of the
circle. And the quarter-boat,
hanging right aft, was quickly in
the water and racing to pick up
T inky. It was really smart
work, and when they got the
skipper back on board everyone
expected he would be pleased.
But he wasn’t a bit pleased.
“Ship-work was good, boat-
work fair,” he said. “But I
didn’t see a lifebelt.”
Martin explained that the belt
had been nailed on its bracket
by the Chinese carpenter Sun
Wing, who had grown tired of
having it swung off the hook by
the heavy rolling of the ship.
“But we’ll fix that,” Martin
assured the skipper.
The next time the skipper went
overboard he warned no one;
just jumped and yelled “Man
overboard!”
The suddenness of the call
upset routine, but this time the
lifebelt worked —in fact he got
two belts. On the whole, he was
satisfied.
After that every man was on
his toes for another alarm by
the skipper. Sun Wing, the car-
penter, did not nail the lifebelts
to the bulkhead any more, and
his assistant, who polished
brasswork too, could not keep
his mind on his job for watch-
ing the skipper whenever he was
in si § ht - ~
“By Cli,” he would mutter to
himself. “Too much jump,
maybe. Plenty boat-drill not
good, maybe.”
ONE sunny afternoon the
Kashkin slung herself along
the long rolling swells, rolling
like a sailor. It was siesta-time
for all off duty, including the
skipper, and he had found his
way along to the transom, where
there was a dry spot, and sat
down in a deck-chair, his cap
cocked over one eye. As he sat
down he noticed that the ensign
on the jackstaff wanted a pull
to keep it at the masthead. He
decided he would speak to
Martin about it later.
But Martin already knew
about the flag, and had told Sun
Wing to fix the pulley in which
the halyard had jammed. Half-
asleep, Linky saw Sun Wing
come to the pole, try the hal-
yard and find it jammed. The
flag Could not be pulled to peak.
Evidently Martin had sent him
to fix it. The carpenter saw the
skipper in the chair, in the
shelter of the dodger, and said,
“Halyard he jam. I fix.”
He began to swarm up the
pole, while the skipper fell
asleep again in the warm sun-
light. Suddenly he was wakened
by a splintering crash, and
opened his eyes to see Wing
flung towards the rail, while the
broken pole went overboard.
Linky came wide-awake then.
Here was rescue-work. There
was no time even to yell “Man
overboard.” He just dived in,
in full rig, trusting’ someone
would see him go. The Kash-
kin went on floundering across
the long swells.
One man in the ship—only
one —did see him go overboard.
He was Wing’s assistant, busy
polishing brasswork. Yung Kee
had not seen the whole affair,
only the skipper diving over-
board. He paused in his polish-
ing, then decided this was just
another boat-drill, and went on
polishing, remarking to himself.
“By Cli, he go again—all same
boat-drill.”
He waited for a boat to be
lowered. None was lowered,
and Yung Kee wondered. He
went to Sam Fat, the boatswain,
and started talking to him in
I Chinese. Sam listened with a
wooden face, then looked astern,
saw something in the water far
away, and said, with heat, “Why
you not give alarm?”
“All same boat-drill,” Yung
Kee repeated.
The boatswain did not hear
him. He was running to give
the alarm.
r"\NCE more the Kashkin
swung in a wide circle, and
when her head was where her
tail had been she began to shake
and throb as her old engines
drove her far beyond her peace-
time speed.
The first-loot came to Yung
Kee and demanded, “Why didn’t
you give the alarm?”
“All same boat-drill, I see
before, plenty time,” Yung Kee
replied.
“You saw captain go?”
“I see him go. Sun Wing he
fall, maybe. I no see him. And
skipper go save him. He no
come back,” he added helpfully.
Every man in the ship was
straining his eyes staring astern.
With glasses, two objects could
be seen, obviously Linky and
Sun Wing. So they drove the
ship faster and faster. And at
last they came on the skipper,
swimming wearily near the flag-
pole and flag, which still floated.
They did not bother to lower
a boat, just swung the ship and
dropped a gangway, manoeuvr-
ing skilfully so that the skipper
could be lifted on to the gang-
way, where he stood with water
streaming from him. There was
no sign of Sun Wing.
“I’m sorry, sir. I had no idea
you were going in again, or I
would have been prepared.”
I The skipper glared.
“Going in again? I never
fanned for Sun Wing to tali
rom the broken jackstaff. 1
ist saw him go and jumped,
lobody saw me, evidently ; all
ound asleep. What a ship!”
le spoke bitterly. “However,”
ecovering his calm, “you had
jetter have a good look for
Ving. I never got a sight of
dm after the jackstaff crashed.”
They searched the sullen China
!ea for an hour, cruising back
m the Kashkin’s course to where
he skipper had dived in. But
here was no sign of Sun Wing.
“A shark might have got him,
dr,” Martin suggested. “The
lag on the pole would frighten
hem away from you, but Wing
night have been taken .”
r INKY had changed into dry
L' uniform, and they were
standing on the deck, right aft
near the transom, looking for-
ward, where the short, stumpy
funnel belched black smoke, for
she was a coal-burner, an old
ship, formerly in the service of
the Chinese Navy.
“Maybe he got a blow from
the pole when it fell,” the
skipper suggested. “A good
bang on the head would knock
him cold, and he would sink.
You’ll have to log him ‘Lost at
Sea.’ ”
As he spoke a shaky voice
spoke behind them.
“By Cli, I want doctor. My
neck broke, I think. My head
he all cut. When 1 jump I fall
bang into quarter-boat —look-
see ! ”
They swung round and stared
at the figure before them as
though if were a ghost. For a
moment they were speechless.
For there, holding to the boat’s
gunwale, stood Sun Wing.
The skipper spoke first.
“You mean to tell me,” he
spoke severely, “that you didn’t
fall overboard when the flag-
pole broke?”
“No fear,” said Sun Wing,
still rubbing his neck. “My neck
he broke, maybe. Bang into boat
I fall. My think me dead, long
time.”
But the skipper did not seem
interested in Sun Wing’s neck.
With a snort of annoyance he
said fiercely, “So I dived into
that blasted ocean for nothing!
What’s the use of trying to
rescue a man when he won’t fall
overboard? Put him in the
sick-bay, Martin, and if his
neck’s broken, serve him right,
wasting our time like this.”
But he grinned as he turned
away and strode to his cabin.
As he passed Yung Kee, still
polishing brasswork, if he had
listened he might have heard the
man mutter, “By Cli, too much
boat-drill, my think, maybe.”
Maybe Yung was right. Any-
way, there was no more of it in
the Kashkin that voyage.


BULBS— BULBS—BULBS
I will buy your bulbs or sell you
bulbs of any description.
Fair deal, try —
A. J. EDEN,
Bluff Rd., Moorabbin, Victoria.
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOIT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
W eight
761bs.
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
HARDMAN & HALL,
44 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut in
2oz. packets at 28/6d. per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31/6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under lib.
weight.,
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
kut> mom
SANDERS
f^FILES
Correspondence. Invoice*,
•totements. etc., filed in the
"Sander*" can be securely Price* and for-
bound and converted into a ( f, er information
perfect book of reference ot upon application
the end of each ruonth —or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Ayeu*,*-
MELBOURNE ... Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co, (Auat.)
Public Notice
I, ANGELO KORONEOS, of Greek nation-
ality, born at Smyrna, Turkey, resident
50 years in Australia, now residing at
216 a Oastlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
The Department of
TECHNICAL EDUCATION
New South Wales
offers through the
CORRESPONDENCE TEACHING
DIVISION
sound and modern training by correspondence instruction in
a wide range of subjects.
Promotion and success depend upon your ability to keep in
touch with up-to-date methods and modern trends. Home
study courses will open up new interests and enthusiasms as
well as lead to
Efficiency Promotion Success
Any person, other than those of school age, who by reason of
remote place of residence, hours of employment or physical
disability, CANNOT ATTEND Technical College Classes, may
apply for enrolment in any one or more of the following
courses:—
Art.—Object (Still Life) Drawing.
Figure Drawing, Freehand Draw-
ing,. Dressmakers’ Art, Display
Card Writing, Ticket Writing.
Commerce. —Bookkeeping, Com-
mercial English, Commercial
Principles, Accountancy, Auditing,
Commercial Law, Income Tax
Law and Practice, Banking,
Finance and Foreign Exchange,
Cost Accountancy, Company
Secretarial Practice, Economics.
Bankers’ Institute, Commercial
Correspondence, S h o r th a n d,
Typewriting.
Local Government.—Local Gov-
ernment Town and Shire Clerks’
Certificate, Local Government
Auditors’ Certificate.
Public Health.—Health Inspec-
tion, Meat Inspection.
Surveying.—Certificate Course.
Public Examinations,—Specific
tuition is provided for the fol-
lowing public examinations: Cer-
tificate Entrance, Qualifying ex-
amination (Degree and Diploma
Courses) N.S.W. University of
Technology and Department of
Technical Education; Inter-
mediate and Leaving Certificates;
Matriculation to University of
Sydney; Nurs e s’ Entrance;
Police Entrance.
General Education.—Correspond-
ence instruction is available in a
comprehensive range of subjects
at Secondary level, i.e., approxi-
mately from Ist year to Leaving
Certificate standard. Full details
may be obtained upon applica-
tion.
Building Trades.—Building Con-
struction, Carpentry and Joinery
(Theory, Calculations, Drawing
and Trade Practice).
Electrical Trades. —For appren-
tices and journeymen. Overhead
Electric Linesmen.
Engineering Trades. —Fitting and
Machining, Automotive Mech-
anics, Refrigeration (for appren-
tices and Journeymen), Steam
Engine Operation, Steam Boiler
Attendants’, Gas Engineering.
Diesel Engine Operation, Motor
Maintenance (for owners and
drivers of motor vehicles).
Printing Trad e s.—Composing,
Printers’ English and Arithmetic,
Linotype Operation, Bookbind-
ing, Letterpress Printing Theory
and Mechanism (for apprentices
and journeymen).
Marine Engineering.—lst or 2nd
Class Marine Engineers’ Certifi-
cate, Part A.
Sanitation. — House Drainage,
Sewer Plumbing, Water Plumb-
ing, Gas Fitting.
Home Handicrafts.—Dressmak-
ing, Millinery, Dressmakers’ Art.
Rural.—Agriculture, Care of
Animals, Pig Raising, Poultry
Farming, Sheep and Woolclass-
ing, Dairy Technology, Dairy
Farming, Bee Keeping, Farm
Mechanics (including Farm
Machinery, Farm Science and
Farm Arithmetic), Farm Manage-
ment and Farm Economics, Farm
and Station Bookkeeping.
ENROLMENTS MAY BE EFFECTED AT ANY TIME-
INSTRUCTION IS CONTINUOUS THROUGHOUT EACH YEAR
All Trade and Certificate Correspondence Courses follow the same
Syllabus and prepare students for the same examinations as
Technical College Oral Courses.
Special lectures and practical demonstration sessions at SYDNEY
TECHNICAL COLLEGE are arranged every year for correspondence
students enrolled in trade and certain other of the above courses.
PERSONS RESIDING IN THE SYDNEY METROPOLITAN AREA
OR IN A COUNTRY TOWN SERVED BY A TECHNICAL
COLLEGE SHOULD APPLY FOR ENROLMENT IN THE
APPROPRIATE ORAL CLASSES
Fees moderate —Details available on application
MAIL, COUPON FOR SYIXABUS
TO: The O.flcer in Charge, Correspondence Teaching Division,
Department of Technical Education, 45-47 Broadway, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, full details of the.....
Correspondence Course.
FAME (IN BLOCK LETTERS)
ADDRESS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of poem “Not Understood.”
—5417.
To buy copy of The Bulletin Re-
citer.—s4lB.
Whereabouts of Robert Ross, who
arrived in Melbourne from England
about two years ago with wife and
child. Would anyone knowing of him
please write his father, Mr. A. S.
Ross, Star and Garter Hospital, Rich-
mond Hill, London.
Information Sought
Why does the master of an overseas
liner hand over to a local pilot when
entering Port Phillip ? Is this common
to all ports ?
Port Phillip is a compulsory pilot-
age port, as are all ports in the world
where ocean-liners call and berth
alongside a wharf. The master of
every vessel trading to and from Port
Phillip must have, in addition to his
master’s certificate, a pilotage certifi-
cate for the port to signify his local
knowledge. After handing over the
navigation of his ship to the local
pilot, the master continues to render
every assistance, and if not satisfied
with the pilot can take over again
himself at any moment.
* * * *
(1) Some information on the World
Council of Churches? When was it
created? (2) Which were the original
Australian member-churches ?
(1) The World Council was created
on August 23, 1948, at an Assembly
meeting in Amsterdam (Holland) com-
prising some 350 delegates represent-
ing 44 countries and 147 churches.
Australian delegates were the Arch-
bishop of Sydney, Bishop Moyes of
Armidale, Bishop Cranswick of Tas-
mania (C. of E.); Dr. H. G. Secomb
and Rev. Alan Walker (Methodist);
Rev. T. McDougall and Rev. Alan
Watson (Presbyterian); Rev. John
Garrett (Congregational). Main head-
quarters of the council are in Geneva
with regional offices in London and
New York. It has no legislative power
or authority over member-churches,
and is purely advisory. (2) Church of
England, Presbyterian Church, Metho-
dist Church, Congregational Union,
Federal Conference of Churches of
Christ in Australia.
* * * *
Cause and treatment of carbuncles
and prescription for tonic?
A carbuncle may be regarded as an
extensive and dangerous form of
boil; local treatment in the early
stages consists in iodine applications,
with tepid boracic foments later for
relief. Under medical supervision
either vaccine treatment or excision
may be resorted to if trouble persists.
Prescribed bood-tonics usually contain
iron and arsenic as the active ingred-
ients. Constitutional treatment is im-
portant.
* *
(1) An account of the currency de-
valuation in 1949 ? (2) Did the
sterling-£A exchange-rate change?
(1) Devaluation of the £S by 30jr
p.c. was announced by Sir Stafford
Cripps, British Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer, on Sept. 19, 1949. At the
same time Mr. Chifley, then Prime
Minister, announced a parallel de-
valuation of the £A to retain the rate
of £AI2S to £SIOO. The £S was de-
valued from 4 dollars 3 cents to 2
dollars 80 cents. (The dollar thus be-
came worth 7s. Ifd. instead of
4s. Hid.) The £A was devalued from
3.224 dollars to 2.24 dollars. This
made a dollar worth Bs. Hid. Austra-
lian instead of 6s. 2id. (2) No, as
mentioned in (1).
* * * *
What is Ferrel’s Law?
It is the statement of the fact that
everything moving on the earth’s sur-
face is subject to a deflecting force
owing to the rotation of the earth —
in the northern hemisphere the force
deflects to the right, and in the south-
ern hemisphere to the left. This is
especially applicable to the air when
in motion.
Meaning of “Cisalpine’’’ ?
It means “pertaining to or situated
on this side of the Alps”—that is, the
southern or northern according to the
point of view. It has, however, be-
come accepted as meaning “on the
south side of the Alps” or “nearer
Rome,” and this sense is used in
“Cisalpine Gaul,” where it is most
commonly met with. The word is used
also to mean a person holding the
doctrine of limited papal power, in
particular regarding the relations be-
tween Rome and thg French church.
There was, too, a "Cisalpine Club,
an association of English Catholics
formed in 1792 to work for the abo-
lition of proscriptive laws against Eng-
lish Catholics.
* * * *
(1) In printing, to whom is gener-
ally credited the designing of the first
italic type? (2) What are the essen-
tial differences between modern and
old-style type-faces ?
(1) Francesco Griffi, or Francesco
da Bologna, who cut types for the
great Venetian printer and publisher
Aldus Manutius. Griffi’s chancery
italic, cut about 1500 and based on
the handwriting used in the papal
.chancery, was used by Aldus for small
and compact editions of the classics
known as the Aldine editions. (2)
Old-style type-faces are those in which
there is only gradual thickening of
the downstrokes compared with the
cross-strokes, and which have
bracketed or sloping serifs. Modern
faces (such as Bodoni) have strong
contrasts between down- and cross-
strokes, and usually have straight,
thin, unbracketed serifs. This page
is set in an old-style type-face, Times
Roman.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
(1) What is the composition of the
positive- and negative-plates in a car-
battery? (2) What is the actual
chemical action on discharge of a
cell?
(1) A positive-plate consists of a
thin, rectangular skeleton-grid frame-
work cast of an alloy of lead and an-
timony, the mesh of which is filled
with active dark-brown crystalline lead
peroxide in very small grains or par-
ticles so disposed as to provide a
high degree of porosity in order that
the electrolyte can freely penetrate the
plate. A negative-plate is a similar
grid framework in the mesh of which
is lead in spongy form also freely
penetrable. (2) When a cell is dis-
charged by completing an external
circuit (such as switching-on lights),
the electrolyte acts upon the active
materials in both plates to form lead
sulphate. The sulphate is supplied
by the sulphuric acid in the electrolyte,
which becomes weaker in concentra-
tion as the discharge proceeds. The
amount of acid consumed is in direct
proportion to the amount of elec-
tricity used from the cell. When the
acid in the electrolyte is so used-up
by combining with the plates that the
battery can no longer deliver elec-
tricity at a useful voltage the battery
is said to be discharged.
Some history of Cobb and Co. ?
When did Cobb and Co. cease operat-
ing ?
Cobb and Co. was formed in Vic-
toria in 1853 by four Americans (Free-
man Cobb, John Murray Peck, James
Swanton and John Lamber), who im-
ported several American coaches sus-
pended on leather springs, better
adapted for the rough roads of the
Australian bush than those then in
use. The original partners sold out,
and the business eventually came
under the control of a company of
which the principal was James Ruther-
ford (1827-1911), also an American.
He extended the Vic. services, and
secured a monopoly of mail contracts.
In 1861 he extended the business
to N.S.W., and Bathurst (N.S.W.)
became head-office; it remained so
for 50 years. In 1865 the business was
further extended to Queensland. In
1870 Cobb and Co. coaches travelled
28,000 miles a week, but gradually
the services were supplanted by rail
and motor transport. However, it
was not till 1924 that the last coach
was taken off the run; the route on
which it ran was Yeulba-Surat (Q.).
* * * *
In South Australia’s early history,
what did Governor Hindmarsh and
Colonel Light disagree over? What
position did Colonel Light hold?
When the colony of S.A. was estab-
lished in 1834, there was to be a
Governor to preside over it, but a
the colony was financed by a Board of
Commissioners, they were to control
the sale of land and also had other
powers. The board’s first representa-
tive was Colonel William Light, who
arrived in August, 1836, and selected
a site for the capital—where Adelaide
still stands. The first Governor, Hind-
marsh, arriving in December the
same year, was ill-pleased with Light’s
choice. Hindmarsh wanted a site on
a good natural harbor, and preferred
Encounter Bay. Light persisted that
his choice was the right one, and, as
the final authority in the .matter
had been entrusted to him, his
view prevailed. (Probably no one
would assert now that he was wrong.)
Hindmarsh and Light continued to
quarrel; so as the Commissioners
were responsible for the business
management of the colony, the
Colonial Office recalled Hindmarsh in
1838. To avoid any future trouble
between Governor and resident Com-
missioner, both offices were combined
in the one person thereafter.
Is refuse-water from the bathroom
and laundry suitable for use on a
flower-garden in an outback N.S.W.
area? How should it be applied?
Provided the refuse-water does not
contain kerosene, petrol or disinfec-
tants, it could be used once a week.
Apply towards evening about 12in.
from the plants in a saucer-like de-
pression; next day cultivate the soil
and cover it with grass, leaves or
straw to prevent evaporation. A
sprinkling of lime mixed into the soil
when dry will sweeten and purify.
Brief Answers
8.M.: Portugal was a monarchy till
1910. Last King was Manoel II (1889-
1932). On Oct 5, 1910, a republic
was proclaimed J.W.W.: (1) Yes,
if of age. (2) Legislation on the sub-
ject is of long standing. (3) No
L.E.: For an account suitable to your
purposes see The Design of Timber
Structures, by Phillip O. Reece; as
you are a member, you can obtain
a copy on loan at the Sydney Muni-
cipal Library Jim: Mars has two
satellites, Jupiter H, Saturn nine,
Uranus five and Neptune two. Mer-
cury and Venus have none
F.R.N.: The red-spider, which sucks
sap from leaves, causing them to be-
come yellow and die, is not a true
spider. Infested leaves can be cleaned
by sponging with soft soap and water.
BJ.H.; Two novels set in coal-
mining districts and dealing with
mines and miners are How Green
Was My Valley, by Richard Llewellyn,
and Germinal, by Emile Z01a... .J. 8.:
Law 35, note 5, of the Laws of
Cricket, states that “A fieldsman
standing within the playing area may
lean against the boundary to catch a
ball, and this may be done even if
the ball has passed over the boun-
dary” P.E.D.: Write Pring, Dean
& Co., stock- and sharebrokers, 27
Hunter-street, Sydney.... W.J.8.: The
invasion of Normandy by the Allies
took place on June 6, 1944 (D-day).
W.McC.: The Vic. Government
Statist is Mr. O. Gawler, F.I.A
A.E.P.: Referred your inquiry to geo-
logical authorities, who are unable to
advise without more precise details.
J.B.E.: Write Director, Civil Avi-
ation, Department of Defence, Mel-
bourne... .J.C.S.: Method too long
to describe on Service page....
Effsee: The club has no power firpro-
hibit, but permission should be sought
from the trustees.. . .W.G.: Get in
touch with Madden Bros., 73 Anner-
ley-road, South Brisbane, Q F.L.:
Can’t say which bridge problem is the
most difficult. There are too many
difficult ones K.W.P.: A form can
be obtained from the Registrar-
General’s Department, Chancery-
square, Sydney W.J.A.: Bronze
is an alloy of copper and tin (eight
or nine parts of copper to one of tin).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
C.T.A.: “I suppose you couldn’t
spring me ten-bob for these few
lines?” No; but we could spring
anywhere to get away from them....
J.L.G.: Snake poem gently slithering
back Dinny O’Leary: JJsual re-
marks addressed to .the city by poet
leaving for the bush B.McL: Not
a bad nightmare, but unless it’s going
to be much more dramatic you might
as well write about what you see on
waking,.. .G.V.K.: Verses are a bit
out-of-date, but there’s something
good in both; come again M.R.:
Boyhood poem pleasant but thinnish.
. ...G.C.; Write about what you
actually see in the bush.... A.D.C.:
Your kelpies are better disciplined
than your muse Senorita S.: Looks
like a good short story lost in indif-
ferent verse M.S.: Unless you
happen to be a lute-player why men-
tion the instrument? T.L.C.:
“Thee,” if you must use it, is not
plural F.H.F.: Some nice observa-
tion in the Luke Burrill verses though
they don’t get anywhere in particular.
Why don’t you try prose? 8.E.R.:
“Actually 1 like garlic sausages, but
they don’t like me.” Sorry to hear
that; especially as regret for them has
driven you to poetry G.E.M.:
Kipling’s “If” P.N.C.: Your type-
writer needs a new ribbon... .R.K.H.;
Possible material for “Aboriginalities”
paragraph. Too rough as verse
J.M.T.: Too much politics and not
enough water in the Snowy River
poem.... J.N.: Sometimes it has a
nice ballad bounce and sometimes it
just bumps... .K.S.T.; “Windermere”
the nearest G.L.Ci.; Verses so
slight that they really elude criticism.
... .D.P.: Thin to the point of invisi-
bility 0.N.: Bill’s a bore H.T.:
If you really want to win the lady,
never let her see that poem 0.E.:
“My wounded heart now leaps upon
the sill. And sees the flowery spring
and weeps full sore.” You’d better
take it to a specialist... .Old-age Pen-
sioner : Can’t refuse this one:
[To The Bulletin, with Best Wishes
for a Merry Xmas and a Happy and
Prosperous New Year —written and sent
to mark the 50th Anniversary of my
subscription to The Bulletin.]
Behold Australia! Gorgeous—grand —
Majestic—with an outstretched hand
To all —to you—to take a stand
For peace—goodwill, for all Mankind.
Uplift your eyes and read the sign— _
Your heart might say “The fault is
mine”—-
The time has come —the hour Divine —
Leave strife and illwill far behind.


t/FF
WITH
MCA
$
——vXTi>
Perfect Meals . . .
and Piping-Hot Water
including 3 Baths a day!
It’s a wise husband who buys his wife an Aga, so they
both “live happily ever after”. With the two capacious
Aga ovens and the two efficient hot-plates you can
prepare the most wonderful meals, efficiently and
easily; and so coolly, too, thanks to Aga’s insulation-
This amazing coke-burning Cooker is ready for service
day or night, yet its low fuel consumption is guuTfin*
teed! The Aga is also quite impervious to power
restrictions and blackouts. Furthermore, the Aga Model
C.B. gives you an efficient hot water service, with three
hot baths a day, from the same small single fire!
THE
AGA
10 YEARS GUARANTEE
COOKER
The British-built Ago
is guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. in 1841)
Sole Australian Agents for the ASA COOKER and
BENDIX HOME WASHER
SEND FOR FREE LEAFLET TO:
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA ... _
QUEENSLAND ..... _
SOUTH AUSTRALIA ...
TASMANIA _ _
WEST AUSTRALIA -
-45 King Street, Sydney
_ _ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
_ ..._ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
. .... A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
MALLOCH BROS. Ltd., Perth
SB
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
OS
CM-
‘dhi-M-Oi.
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particular* gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O. 80, 3583.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. 80. 4058, MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
80. 712 F. ADELAIDE • G.P.O. 80. 758 K. BRISBANE
• G.P.O 80. 588, PERTH.
STATION AGENTS
FROM LEADING STOCK
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Soybean
“Rooster”: Oil-extracted soy-
bean-meal is rich in protein—
one of the best of vegetable
origin. Fed as a protein supple-
ment, it is suitable for all live-
stock, particularly dairy-cattle,
though with pigs and poultry it
is better to replace only half of
the meat-meal or milk by-
products with it.
The food-value and composi-
tion of the green plant are simi-
lar to those of lucerne, but when
cut or grazed it dies quickly.
There is no regrowth, and it has
too brief a life to be of any
value as green fodder.
Soybean silage is pungent and
of poor consistency, and needs
to be mixed with maize. The
hay is like that of lucerne ex-
cept in palatability and the use-
lessness of the woody stems. Its
protein content is high and
ideal for balancing grass-hay.
Unfortunately, the making of
good soybean-hay is difficult
and often impracticable because
the plant matures in uncertain
autumn weather.
Like most legumes, the soy-
bean is bitter and not readily
eaten. The bean can be fed to
stock in small quantities only
because of its high oil content.
When fed to cattle soybeans
must be ground, but can be fed
whole to other stock.
For horses and cattle soybeans
can be fed one-quarter of the
concentrate ration as a protein
and general food-supplement.
Sheep can be fed larger
quantities, the seeds being a
valuable supplement during
drought.
Too much soybean will affect
the fat-quality of pigs; about
5 per cent, of the ration is a
safe quota. The same percentage
is sufficient for poultry.
Soybean-meal is very palat-
able. Along with cottonseed-
meal it is the principal protein
supplement fed to dairy cattle in
America.
Sore Backs On Horses
“Farmer Bill”: A sore back
on a horse doesn’t call for oint-
ment so much as a study of the
causes. These may include struc-
ture of the animal, its general
condition and fit of the saddle.
The-horse’s frame is built with
a row of muscles running the full
length of the back. On these
rests the saddle. When they are
large and well-developed they
act as a solid pad, protecting the
back- and rib-bones. When they
are weak, or almost entirely lack-
ing, the saddle presses down on
the skin covering the bones,
wears away the hair and makes
a raw wound.
The shape of the horse’s back
may be another cause of trouble.
When it is hollow, narrow or too
long the rib formation is also
affected and the saddle cannot
fit properly.
A well-made, well-fed horse
does not usually develop a sore
back. The overfed one some-
times galls badly, but the
underfed, half-starved animal is
the worst sufferer.
To overcome the trouble per-
manently, study the condition of
“Got ’em like that in California?”
the horse first. If this is down-
grade set about building it up.
Next look to the fit of the saddle.
Its hollow arch should not press
upon the middle line of the
horse’s back, nor should other
parts of it press on the loins or
pinch the withers ; the blade-
bones should be free for easy
movement.
The weight of a good saddle
is evenly distributed over the
section of the body extending
from the shoulder muscles to the
last of the rib muscles.
To prevent sore backs in
horses with naturally thin skins,
swab them down well with a
strong solution of salt and water
after they have cooled off at the
end of the day’s work.
Taken at the start, when the
sore begins to show up as a
slight chafing, a painting with
tincture of iodine usually heals
it.
If the sore is suppurating, clip
the hair away from the edges
and cauterise with bluestone till
the wound appears healthy.
Then change over to a dressing
of boracic-acid and starch —one
teaspoon of each powder dis-
solved in one pint of warm
waiter
With sitfasts, let them develop
to their full size, then remove
with a knife. Again cauterise
with bluestone and follow-up
with a dressing of boracic-and-
starch.
In all cases the horse must be
rested until the wound is fully
healed.
Oats and Wheal
“Mr.”: Sown early, oats make
excellent green-feed in autumn
and winter, after which the
stand can be left to mature for
hay. The grain is a highly-con-
centrated and well-balanced
food which can be fed in large
quantities to all stock and can
be used to replace bran in the
ration —4£lb. oats is equivalent
to 61b. of bran.
For cattle the grain is best
crushed or coarsely ground. As
a supplement to pasture and
pasture-hay crushed oats fed to
dairy-cows at the rate of 10001 b.
per cow raised production by
401 b. of butterfat in trials
conducted by the Victorian De-
partment of Agriculture.
As a pig-food oats are not the
best, as the high fibfe-content of
the husks doesn’t suit the
porker’s digestive system.
Wheat-grain is a good fatten-
ing food for horses and cattle
when coarsely ground and mixed
with chaff. If finely ground and
fed heavily it becomes pasty in
the mouth and unpalatable.
Cattle, horses and sheep can be
fed wheat partly to replace fod-
ders such as chaff, bran, pollard,
maize and oats. Other stock
can be fed wheat to replace bran,
pollard and other grain.
For the displacement of chaff
in the ration, 31b. ol wheat is
equivalent to 51b. chaff, and tor
cattle, horses and sheep a pro-
portion of the chaff can be dis-
placed by wheat in that ratio.
When the ration is to contain a
large proportion of wheat, make
the change gradually over six
or seven days —any sudden
change in the ration should be
avoided.
Linseed in N.S.W.
“Linum”: Although linseed
does well in n.-w. N.S.W., it is
hardly likely to become a serious
competitor against wheat (B.
24/ 12/ 1 52). Even with prices of
£BO to £9O per ton for linseed,
the area of this crop has not
been able to extend to more
than about 15,000 acres in that
region during the last few years.
During the same time the area,
of wheat for grain in the same
region increased by 120,000
acres to more than 750,000
acres, despite a falling acreage
in other parts of the State.
Already linseed has dropped
from its high price-levels of
earlier years, and, in these
circumstances, the area of lin-
seed in the north-west this year
will hardly be more than 10,000
acres, compared with about
800,000 acres under wheat for
grain.
To some extent improperly-
cleaned seed carries pasmo
disease ; remedy requires prompt
cleaning-up of the linseed
stubble after harvest instead of
I allowing it to carry spores over
to infect the next season’s
crops.
No varieties of linseed in the
world are highly resistant to
pasmo, and there is little justifi-
cation for optimistic hopes of
improvement in the yield of lin-
seed through the breeding of
resistant varieties.
Sweeter Soil
“W.C.Q.”: Always leave
ploughed ground in the rough
for a while. Rough land takes
up much more rain-water than
smooth, harrowed soil, and the
air gets into rough land and
sweetens it; and it will break
down far better after a few days
than straight after ploughing.
The aerating of the soil gives
the crop, when sown, a better
chance. Satisfactory crops are
rarely grown on hurriedly-pre-
pared, badly-aerated soils.
Land that has been growing
weeds and grasses is usually sour
after the first ploughing. The
more rubbish that has been
turned-in the longer a paddock
should be rested, since it takes
some time for the grass to rot
and soil to sweeten.
Modern disk-harrows make
the task of breaking-down rough,
cloddy ground very easy;
ordinary harrows are not so
good.
Mulching
“C.H.”: Mulching of tomato,
lettuce, celery and other sum-
mer-grown crops cuts down
much of the hard work of weed-
ing and cultivating. Soil is kept
cool, moisture conserved and
roots of some of the plants are
able to feed in the upper 2in. to
Sin. of soil.
Lawn-clippings, grass, straw,
old hay and dead leaves all make
good mulches. Dry stable
manure is excellent, since it con-
tains readily available plant-
foods. ,
Don’t start the job until the
soil has warmed up and plants
are growing well and have been
given their first cultivation to
suppress weed-growth.
Make the mulch thick enough
to prevent weeds pushing
through. Those of straw and
old hay should be about Bin.
deep, those of lawn-clippings
and old manure lin. to 2in. deep.
Dry Farming
“Agron”; Professor Hardy is
wide of the mark in trying to
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The cyclical rain-point of January 5 has given some
good results, although the sunspot outbreak was not strong
enough to cause the complete break of the dry spell m North
Queensland. It has drawn the group out, however, to
meet the next cyclical group of the later part of January,
when the North’s wet season should set in.


2 TO 1 MAJORITY
VOTES HOLDEN
TOP CAR VALUE
Holden is the only car planned,
designed, and engineered to meet the special
needs of Australian motorists. That’s why
Holden is the only car that combines the big-
car power, 6-cylinder performance and
comfortable body size (so essential under
Australian road and climatic conditions) with
30 miles per gallon economy.
Holden has the restrained good-looks that last
. . . help to maintain the value of your invest-
ment. And because Holden is made in
Australia you can depend on the immediate
availability of genuine, factory-made spare
parts at low cost and specialised service by
Holden dealers throughout Australia.
Registration figures for the first ten months
of 1952 show that Holden outsold
any other car model by more than two to one.
In the previous year more than 21,000 Holdens
were registered in Australia . . . the
greatest number of one individual model
ever recorded by the Registration Authorities.
Compare the six most popular models
and you will see that Holden is
Australia's most popular car because it
gives better value for your money.
YOU PAY LESS FOR HOLDEN’S
21 HORSEPOWER PERFORMANCE
Horsepower is a major factor in the performance of your ear.
You pay less than £45 per unit for Holden’s 21 units of horse-
power ... a total of £940. Here are the six most popular
models in order of their horsepower-value (R.A.C. Rating).
—based on latest prices available (December, 1952).
Holden cost per unit of horsepower £45
Next model—cost per unit of horsepower—£s7
Next model—cost per unit of horsepower—£63
Next model—cost per unit of horsepower—£72
Next model—cost per unit of horsepower—£B9
Next model—cost per unit of horsepower—£9o
HOLDEN IS THE LOWEST-PRICED
6-CYLINDER CAR YOU CAN BUY
Compare the six lowest Holden List Price £940
priced 6-cylinder models Next Model „ „ £999
and you'll find one more Next Model „ „ £1,130
reason why Holden is Next Model „ „ £1,231
Australia’s most popular Next Model „ „ £1,515
car. Next Model „ „ £1,561
HOLDEN IS THE ONLY CAR COMBINING 30 M.P.G.
ECONOMY WITH 6-CYLINDER. 21 HORSEPOWER
PERFORMANCE
The average petrol consumption reported by Holden owners
from all over Australia it over 30 miles per gallon. But
Holden economy does not stop there, pn petrol, oil, tyres,
spare parts and maintenance Holden wilt save your money.
Increased production means earlier delivery—see your Holden dealer today!
FEATURE FOR FEATURE HOLDEN GIVES YOU MORE FOR YOUR MONEY:
6-cylinder, 21 h.p. O.H.V. engine. ★ Uni-Steel Turret-Top Aero-
bilt construction ★ Good looks that safety glass all round
★ Low step in height ★ Synchromesh helical gears ★ Independent
front wheel springing ★ Hypoid rear axle ★High power to weight
ratio ★ 37-feet turning circle ★Hydraulic self-energising brakes
★ Full length water jackets ★ 100% full pressure metered flow
lubrication ★ Prompt Australia-wide spare parts availability.
• There are two Air Chief radios specially
designed for Holden.
• Convenient Hire Purchase terms are
available through G.M.A.C. . . . General
Motors’ Own Finance Company.
HOLDEN
Australia's Own Car
6549 E
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY . MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE .# PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia
show that Queensland could
follow the dry-farming methods
of Canada, particularly in wheat-
growing (B. 31/12/’52).
In Canada wheat is sown
mainly in spring and harvested
in autumn. Moreover, in the
prairie provinces it is often
grown continuously for many
years on the same land, despite
the fact that no means of main-
taining or improving the soil-
fertility beyond trash-farming
(non-burning of straw) are
used.
No winter legumes, such as
naturalised or sown clovers,
burr, ball or sub. can be grown
to help build soil-fertility, and
long-term pastures are difficult
to establish.
Even with some long fallow,
wheatgrowing in the prairie
provinces appears to be a threat
to soil-fertility. Average yields
per acre are nearer eight bushels
on stubble land and about 13 on
fallow, rather than the 40 quoted
by the professor.
Australia is advancing beyond
the continuous wheatgrowing
and the wheat-bare-fallow
stages. Following Canadian
methods would only be a retro-
grade step for us.
Acacias for the Farm
“Baroona”: With over 400
native species, there is little
doubt that wattles can be grown
almost anywhere in Australia.
They have been slandered too
often as short-livers —they will
last up to 40 years if given
proper attention.
Little care is needed after the
first year. Young plants should
be sheltered from excessive sun,
wind and frost. March, April,
May and September are con-
' sidered the best months for plant-
ing, but, with care, from March
until October can be reckoned
safe.
Don’t dig close to the stems,
don’t use farmyard manure, and
do all weeding close to the tree
by hand.
For outback areas some of
the finest acacias available are:
Acuminata, 30ft. (W.A. rasp-
berry-jam-tree) ; Brachybotrya,
sft. to Bft. (silver-leaved mulga);
Calamifolia, Bft. to 10ft. ; Pen-
dula, 15ft. (weepihg-myall, silver-
leaved) ; Decora, sft. (a beauti-
ful shrub); Undulifolia, Bft.
(summer-flowering).
Other lovely varieties are:
Accola, 20ft. (one of the finest
of wattles, masses of flowers in
late winter and early spring);
Cardiophylla, 10ft. (the beauti-
ful Wyalong wattle); Dealbata,
30ft. (silver wattle, good for all
districts, white stem, early-
spring flowering); Drummondii,
4ft. to sft.; Podalyricefolia, 15ft.
(Queensland wattle, silvery
leaves, flowers in winter);
Pruinosa, 20ft. (spreading
growth, grows quickly, likes
summer watering, summer
flowering).
For a very exposed position:
Vestita, 12ft. to 15ft. (weeping
boree, attractive weeping variety
that does well on the rockiest
and most exposed places).
For a hedge plant: Iteaphylla,
10ft. to 12ft. (plant 4ft. to sft.
apart, deep golden flowers in
spring). ,
Books for Farmers
“H.”; Books let the individual
draw on the experiences of
others, and, among much good
farming literature, the following
are worth reading;
Elliot’s Clifton Park System of
Farming, Sykes’s Farming 750
Acres Without Artificial Ferti-
lisers, Howard’s Farming and
Gardening for Health and
Disease, Howard’s Agricultural
Testament, King’s Farmers of
Forty Centuries, T.V.A. (Ten-
nessee Valley Authority ) in the
Penguin series and Nicol’s
Microbes by the Million in the
Pelicans.
Bromfield’s Pleasant Valley,
Malabar Farm and Out of the
Earth should be read in that
sequence.
Dog’s Diet
“Old Nick”: Tests in the
U.S.A. have shown that under-
feeding affects a dog’s brain as
well as his condition.
Qne point missed by many
owners is that a dog has a small
stomach and needs concentrated
f orms Q f nourishment
f f .
J= s ted sIo PPY toods tail f to
™ USCIe ' r:
£ u iy res P on s' ole lor nyaanas.
P ° ul ry “4, fish-bones, which
splinter easily and pierce the
intestines > should never be part
°f ado f Nine-tenths of
all skm troubles of dogs can be
tra ! ed to * r °"B feeding.
Two moderate meals a day,
one raw and one °f cooked
meat, keep a dog’s health up to
P ar and «s«lt in sharper mtelli-
-Bence and better work. A good
brand of dog-biscuit helps fore-
stall constipation and keeps the
For oltTdogs wid/ teeth troubles
“ should be pounded
> nto small pieces.
Large solid bones chewed at
leisure assist in a beneficial
secretion of saliva.
Hints for the Farm
“Humus”; During hot
weather keep a cool, clean
water-supply up to all kinds of
poultry. Green-feed helps to
kee P fowls cool. When tern-
P eratures P a ss 90deg. watch for
distressed birds on nests - Last
year 1 saved an Australorp that
was pretty far gone by dowsing
it in cool water, laying it on a
wet concrete floor in a cool sbed
anc j turn i ng over every half-
hour
“Myrrhee”: Covering the pit
"™*,w£S?on
seal It is now out-of-date on
,f a f and PJ actlce ot selt “
sealing is used. A layer of
y tack^n^afiowed to
for a fewdavs Thlifthe
J ettle tor a days. 1 hen the
tractor 18 run backward and for-
™|jf o°nrach tfsfwzl comew
SteSnS
t 0 an ellective air seal.
“My”: When moving bee-
hives in hot weather close them
up before daylight. Before
loading the hives force a cup of
water into each through the air-
vent in the cover with a knap-
sack spray-pump. Hose or
douse the load with water be-
fore the journey and at inter-
vals along the road if the trip
is of any distance. Stop only
when necessary, and then keep
the engine running, as the vibra-
tion makes the bees cluster.
Most damage in transit occurs
when the bees break cluster and
panic.
“Valeman”: There’s usually
a great difference in weight per
tree between amateur- and com-
mercial-grown fruit-crops. The
reasons lie in pruning, manuring
and pest-control. The profes-
sional will often thin off as
much as 50 per cent, of his fruit
in February and let it rot be-
neath the trees. He also gives
each tree as much as 71b. of
artificial fertiliser annually and
administers frequent anti-pest
sprays. Too often the back-
yard tree is starved, which is why
a tree often crops one year and
“rests” the next.
“M.”; Regard all boars, quiet
or not, as dangerous. Quiet
boars, in fact, are often the
cause of injuries because greater
liberties are taken than with
known, fierce animals. The
tusks show at about nine months,
and at 15 months are dangerous
weapons and ready to cut. Bolt-
cutters will do the job. Place a
rope noose in the mouth around
the top jaw and as far back as
possible. When the noose is
tight pass the other end of the
rope around a strong, firm post
and draw the pig’s head against
it The tusks are cut of[ close
.
“C AA ”• Cleanliness is the
fi J^ s £ tia l need
- thnmnch washing of everv
article cannot be °TOremPha-
s|se(j Change water frequently
f or was ju n g teats and don’t use
a small tin of petroleum jelly—
use a lubricant from a tube -
Don > t rely on a small amount
0 £ disinfectant in a bucket to do
1116 hygiene i ob - washin B Sets
lines - caustic-soda-one® tea-
spoon to four gallons water _ is
effective, but should only be
called upon after careful flush-
ing of the lines with cold water.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The “Pinus Radiata” Complex
Our. southern States will soon face a
problem similar, to that now pausing such
concern in New Zealand. We, too, have
planted far too much Pinus radiata and
neglected to plant other softwoods. It
is now only too 1 obvious that radiata'
timber will not serve every purpose for
which a softwood is required. It makes
good fruit-cases, a fairly good flooring-
board, medium-quality plywood and
second-rate roofing-timber. That ends
the list.
The original P. radiata plantations were
a wise step. No other tree, native or
foreign, could have provided a softwood
supply so quickly. By seed selection, top-
dressing, spraying the foliage with zinc
sulphate and similar innovations the
growing period was reduced to what must
be the shortest in the world. The time
is now overdue, however, for a new
policy.
Having provided for our present soft-
wood requirements, we must turn to
growing trees which produce good-quality
timbers. The following suggestions are
based on the latest overseas reports,
checked by examining trees of known age
growing on private property:
Vast areas of mountain country in
Victoria, Tasmania and southern N. S.
Wales are suitable for growing the Cali-
fornian redwood. It grows as rapidly as
radiata and the timber is whiteant-proof
and admirably suitable fdr interior fit-
tings of houses. It also has the great
advantage of non-inflammable foliage.
When cut, it regenerates by suckers.
The same areas will grow birch, which
tnakes the best plywood in the world. It
is not necessary to wait half a lifetime
for this tree to mature. In Sweden, 10-
year-old thinnings from birch plantations,
only a few inches in diameter, are peeled
in the plywood mills.
Another tree worth planting in southern
mountain areas is the American white-
“ Don't you know about jay~Walking ?”
oak, best of all timbers for cask- and vat-
staves. It also makes good furniture.
Pigs should be run in conjunction with
oak plantations. Not only do they fatten
on the acorns ; they aid the growth of
the oaks by rooting up the ground and
manuring it. The same country will
gpow the Caucasian ash, which grows very
rapidly and has a score of uses, from
boat-oars to hayfork-handles.
America has done outstanding work by
breeding hybrid timber-trees, the . best
so far being one which combines the
outstanding quality of their white-pine
with the rapid growth of the jack-pine.
We have, as yet, done little in the way
of testing out these hybrids in our heavy-
rainfall areas.
Queensland has missed out badly by
not making extensive plantations of
Burma teak, the, most enduring and gener-
ally useful hardwood on earth. Experi-
mental plantations of teak have shown
what could be done. The northern State
has huge areas of hill country inside the
heavy-rainfall belt which grow nothing
save near-useless timber today. If this
Were felled by modern methods and
teak planted, it would be necessary
to cut only once the rubbish growth
around the young -seedlings. Once:
a teak sapling gets its head into the j air
it soon crowds out everything else, pro- >
ducing an - undergrowth-free forest. It
regenerates naturally by seedlings.
This list could be extended greatly. If
we don’t get rid of our Pinus radiata
complex and start planting good-quality
timber, those, who come after us will
wonder ’ why we missed such , obvious
opportunities.—Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Loans Without Tears
There is nothing strange in Sutherland
Shire Council (N.S.W.) raising money by
means of a loan from among its own
people for the benefit of the shire (B.
31/12 / ’52). It is merely doing locally
for the benefit of the locality what the
Australian Government does nationally
for the benefit of the nation.
But if local-government bodies went
helter-skelter after loans it would result
in a highly feverish and unreliable loan
market. There would probably arise a
not very desirable body of loan-brokers
and similar middlemen. Interest-rates
would certainly rise and would have to be
paid by citizens. Finally, no amount of
loan money, whatever the figures that ex-
pressed its value, would be able to buy
any more machinery than was available
on the market. So there would be in-
flated prices. Nor would it attract any
more labor than was available except by
paying exceptional wages and robbing
other enterprises of their labor-force. To
start one job by stopping another with
the offer of higher Wages is bad
economics, whatever the labor unions
might say.
Still, the energv and enterprise that aims
, to transform a harsh, unhealthy district
into a pleasant, homely and healthy town-
ship should not be wholly obstructed. If
a free Tor-all loan market is bad, and
centralised administration and develop-
merit of hundreds of diverse townships is
clumsy, the remedy seems to be to en-
courage local enterprise by making funds
available from Government loans, and
to throw the responsibility for their wise
use upon the local-governing bodies.
The local bodies would have to be en-
couraged, sometimes restrained and firmly
guided., :: .
That is the English method and it
works. It will call for a good deal of
friendly co-operation between Sydney
civil servants and country citizens. But
it took a few hundred iyears for Britain
to work out her system of local enter-
prise and Government guidance.—
S. McC. (N.S.W.). » >; '
Although the loan market has .been
affected by shortage of money, uncertain
interest-rates and various other matters
of “high finance,” one noticeable factor
in the last; two or-three Commonwealth
; loans has been the absence of) the £lO,
£2O and £5O subscriptions. The people
with a few pounds saved are; not con-
cerned with the Commonwealth loans, be-
cause they can expect no,’results of
immediate value.
Here, in northern N.S.W., the average
person is not irt the least interested in
the Snowy Mountains scheme, nor in the
Eastern Suburbs railway. So their £lO or
£2O stays in the bank. But. if you float
a local loan to build a new hospital, to
extend sewerage facilities, or for rural
electricity- extensions,; or. even for the
Clarence ■ Gorge' hydroelectric i scheme,
- then that money will be forthcoming.
It is no use telling people that their
district will share .in the distribution of
“What about a nut for me, Maggie?
loan funds ; they will not believe you.
Political promises have fallen into dis-
repute. But there are well-filled stockings
about and local loans are the only way
to borrow from them. Mullum
(N.S.W.).
Emancipation
To say that Lincoln’s “proposal” to
emancipate slaves in the Southern States
caused the American Civil War (B.
7/1/’53) is an inaccurate oversimplifica-
tion. Conflict between North and South
was inevitable because of the difference
between the social and economic struc-
tures of two entirely different peoples.
The real issue was Federalism and Pro-
tection versus State sovereignty and Free
Trade. The Republican party was more
concerned with strengthening the Federal
powers than with State rights. The
Southern States were not resigned to the
loss of dominant political power which
had been theirs ever since the foundation
of the Union. Thus, fundamentally, the
struggle was between the two groups for
the hegemony of the United States,
Lincoln, on his : election, categorically
denied any, intention of interfering with
slavery in the Southern States. The aboli-
tion of slavery was not even spoken of
at the outset of the war; States which
were sympathetic to the union had slave-
owning estates in their boundaries. When
General Fremont declared martial law
in Missouri in 1861 and proclaimed the
confiscation of planters’ estates and the
freedom of their slaves, his action was
repudiated and Fremont removed from
his command.
Lincoln was too astute a political
strategist to antagonise slave-holding
border States'which had ref used to secede
—-Missouri, Kentucky, West Virginia,
Maryland and Delaware—by confiscating
the property of planters in those States
and liberating their slaves.
. : The. war itself forced the settlement of
the . slavery issue. At first, the negroes
.who had been taken prisoner were set
free. : But the laws of Congress fully
guaranteed and protected the ownership
‘ of slaves held by men loyal to the Union,
or men not taking part in the “rebellion.”
It was not until September 24, 1862, that
Lincoln published a preliminary pro-
clamatioh that, on January 1, 1863, all
slaves in States or ,parts of States in rebel-
lion agairist the United States shall be
tfien, thenceforward, and for ever free.”
Lincoln.had made plain his view at
Cabinet-meetings that to have, issued the
proclamation even six months earlier
would /have been premature. “Public
sentiment,” he said; would not have.stood
for it—c£em Lack (Q.). .' . •
F. vo v?' c•
Retired Bank Officials .
Melbourne’s .“bank- density” (B.
31/12/’52) might be very solid and satis-
fying, but each of these solid institutions
has a number of retired officials,'.most
of whom feel anything but satisfaction at
the way things, have turned out for them.
They are'among the unfortunates Who
have, been hardest hit by inflation ; men
who during their working lives with a
bank (47 years- or so) paid into pension
funds, life-assurance, etc,, to secure
benefits which, in ordinary circumstances,
would have been. adequate for their old
age. They have proved to be quite
inadequate. A bargain’s a bargain, of
course, and they knew (or thought they
did) what the contract would bring them.
They took the.view that, provided they
did their work well arid paid their sub-
scriptions to the pension .fund, there was
not, in their cases,' the' usual: necessity
for much' else in the way of saving. Not
that salaries in their'days permitted of
much in that line.
Inflation has knocked them cockeyed,
but not so their 'one-time employers. The
banks must be among the largest owners
of real-estate (and other tangibles) in Aus-
tralia. It was almost general practice with
banks to value such assets in their balance-
sheets at very conservative, figures. In
some cases they were valued so low that
the thing became a joke. What these
properties are! worth, on present-day
values, would be hard to estimate without
inside information. .The same applies to
other tangible assets, and it seems as
though present values, are here to stay or,
at any rate, not to drop by much. Sub-
stantial amounts, set. apart as hidden
reserves for risky - accounts, have also
come gpod, and that particularly applies
to farming accounts. ' :
In other words, it is hard to see that
inflation has mg.de much difference to the
banks themselves, their assets haying kept
pace with it, but to many of their retired
men it means tragedy.
Some of the banks, admittedly, have
partly recognised the plight of their
retired men, but only in.a small way. A
bonus, which cannot, be depended on and
representing a few shillings a week over
the year, is accepted hungrily, but it’s a
meagre reward for the man who has put
in a lifetime of loyal and highly respon-
sible service with his, bank.
It is not a good advertisement for the
I banks that such men, especially those
who have been managers of large
branches, should be seeking more-or-less
junior posts in other concerns to augment
their small pensions. Retired civil servants
have had adjustments made to their
pensions to meet the position, and further
substantial increases are now promised.
That is not particularly gratifying to the
bank pensioner who is .paying taxes out
of his small pension. Is it too much to
hope that the directors- of the banks wilt
also recognise the , situation? After all*
the irien concerned are a dwindling
number .—Bob Cratchit (Vic.).


Collective Profit-sharing ?
The Federal president of the Electrical
Trades Union, lately returned from over-
seas, urged the introduction of profit-
sharing schemes as a basis for improved
employer-employee relations.
Profit-sharing is needed in Australia to
increase production, the only real
guarantee of a better standard of living.
It has Jong been part of the American
industrial scene, where it is a big factor
in keeping industry going and maintain-
ing America’s high living standards.
A visiting British industrialist, Dr.
Daniel McDonald, managing-director of
Birmingham Sound Producers, Ltd., of
Londonderry (Ireland), is also a firm
believer in such schemes.
His firm, one of the largest manufac-
turers in Britain of record-changers,
motors and electrical equipment for
phonographs and radios, has a scheme of
collective incentive-payments. Dr. Mc-
Donald claims that it has been a great
success.
The plan works as follows: Each week
the value of his factory’s output is com-
pared with the total wages and overtime
bill of all employees. The ratio between
the two figures ip then compared with a
previously set “normal ratio.”
If the weekly ratio is higher than the
normal, it means a bonus all round. If
it is lower, ho worker loses money, but
he receives only his standard wage.
Dr. McDonald claims that many of the
bonuses paid are up to 20 peir cent, of
wages. He says that his system of col-
lective incentives (as opposed to individual
piecework) creates a team-spirit which
boosted and now maintains high produc-
tion in his factory.
Whether it is a collective scheme or one
based on individual effort, it seems that
some sort of profit-sharing is urgently
needed in Australia. Union opposition is
a great obstacle to its introduction. —
Keima (Q.).
The Egg Board
What’s wrong with the N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Department if the Egg Board
has to pay inspectors to advise poultry-
keepers (B. 24/12/’52)? In S.A. a call
to the Agricultural Department will bring
a poultry expert at the double if you live
within the metropolitan area, or advice
by post if you’re further out. If the Egg
Board also runs advisers, that’s just an-
other unnecessary duplication for which
the consumer pays.—F. H. W. (S.A.).
There is no use blinking the fact that
a lot of people like boards because they
cater for inefficiency. Producers get too
lazy to find good markets —let the board
do it. People start chook-ranches with
very hazy ideas, and the good genie from
the board comes along and helps them.
Cockies around here have been soaked
£lO and £2O for the heinous crime of
selling eggs—just selling perfectly good
eggs ; nothing more.
When that gets to be a crime—punish-
able by much stiffer fines than for drunk
and disorderly, breaking and entering,
assault and battery, dangerous driving,
petty theft and a host of other anti-
social activities —the boards have taken
over in a big way.—R. H, G. (W.A.).
P.-0.-w. Trust Fund
A year ago the Federal Government
earmarked £250,000 as a p.-0.-w. trust
fund to alleviate distress among living ex-
p.-0.-w. who might have been materially
prejudiced as a result of war service.
Five honorary trustees, three of whom
were themselves p.-0.-w., were appointed.
The paid staff consists of a secretary and
an assistant.
The application form’s inquisitorial
nature suggests monumental inquiries and
checking before a grant is made, and the
small paid staff apparently cannot cope
with the work and make grants within a
reasonable time.
Concurrent with inquiries and checking,
some applicants for relief have died, and
their dependants, needing relief urgently,
have had to make special appeal entailing
considerable delay.
Admittedly, public money is not being
chucked away without proper inquiry and
the administration of the fund is not cost-
ing very much, but it does seem that most
of the checking on statements by appli-
cants could be delegated and the issue of
grants, speeded-up.
The secretary of the local sub-branch
of the R.S.L., given the facts, could
investigate the position and send in a'
statutory declaration as to the ex-
p.-0.-w.’s affairs. Legacy and other reput-
able bodies might also be glad to assist—
Snips (Vic.).
“Green Grow the Deserts”
This area around Keith (S.A.) never
was “doomed to lie, unoccupied and un-
wanted, until the A.M.P. took a theory
out of virtually nothing and created a
practical vision” (B. 10/12/’52). Since
the A.M.P. has come amongst us it has
done quite a good job, but the society
certainly wasn’t the pioneer in developing
the outlying scrub-land. It was, in fact,
guided by results obtained by local
settlers, and thanks are due to those people
who, by their perseverance, were able
to demonstrate to all and sundry the
capabilities of this country.
During the last decade the C.5.1.R.0.
was instrumental in introducing trace-
elements, and the older settlers were
amazed at the marvellous results from
both cereal crops and pasture.
I quote again: “Odds and ends were
dropped off at sidings like Keith, Tintin-
ara, Coonalpyn, where a few folk existed,
seemingly lost in the scrub by day and
part of the blue moonlit silence of the
wasteland by night.”
Keith tmd district is one of the
few places that can boast of 99 per cent,
success in the settlement of Diggers after
the 1914-18 war. Crop yields have in-
creased from five to eight bags in 1918
to 10-14 bags 1952 ; and on scrub-land
from three-four bags to six bags,
according to seasonal conditions. Barley
and oat yields have increased proportion-
ately.
Lucerne was first planted before 1914,
but sowing began in earnest in 1929, and
there are thousands of acres in the district
of unirrigated lucerne—the envy of all
visitors.
Sheep and wool: Approximately 2200
bales of wool were railed to Adelaide
and Melbourne this year, and that figure
does not include wool grown by the
A.M.P. There were about 8000 sheep in
1918; the number shown in 1952 was
nudging 75,000.
As far back as 1912 this so-called
“wasteland” was being developed the hard
way with horse-teams. Some of the first
development work done with tractors was
in the early ’twenties and has continued
since then, depending on the settlers’
ability to find the necessary capital.
The A.M.P. did not take a “theory
out of nothing and create a practical
vision.” It has been able to reap the
benefit of past experience to go ahead
on a scale that calls for unlimited capital.
Whatever the outcome, it is still a national
asset and we are only too pleased to
welcome anything of this sort. By
starting such a scheme the A.M.P. has
confirmed our faith in our district.- —
W. C. Gill (S.A.).
Too Many Critics
“CB.M.” (B. 31/12/’52) does his party
little credit by adding his voice to the
army of critics who are rapidly destroying
the present Federal Government. To
blame one man for the policies pursued
by the Government is absurd, and to
saddle the Prime Minister with all the
blame for his party’s unpopularity is en-
tirely unfair.
If we are to get the best men available
to fill our high public offices we must
protect them from the malicious smear
campaigns which have become part of
our political life. There are many men
well qualified for public office who shy
clear of politics because they are reluct-
ant to have their reputations damaged
by unscrupulous critics who expect the
impossible from their elected representa-
tives. In the main, our public men are
honest and sincere with a higher sense of
responsibility than most of those who
elect them.
Unfortunately, Australians instinctively
distrust anyone whose intellect and ability
are above the common level. The Prime
Minister and Leader of the Opposition
are perfect examples of this. Both sacri-
ficed brilliant legal careers to serve their
country, yet both have been victims of
prolonged, vehement and unjust per-
sonal attacks. That they have put
their ideals before popularity is a
tribute to their courage and integrity. We
may not get more like them unless we
silence unscrupulous critics and offer en-
couragement and praise to those who
grapple with our national problems.—
W. M. H. (S.A.).
French Politics
The multiple-party system and pro-
portional-representation have not pre-
vented reasonable stability and com-
petent government in countries like
Sweden, Holland and Belgium. The
trouble with France (B. 31/12/’52) has
been the low standard of public life. In
the main, parties are not based on genuine
principles, but tend either to form around
prominent politicians, who use their
followers to lever themselves into office,
or to represent minority pressure-groups.
The French electoral system also en-
ables three parties—the so-called “third
force” of Radicals, Socialists and M.R.P.
-—representing, at most, about one-third
of the electorate, to preponderate in
Parliament. Nor can the elector vote for
his fancy, but only for a party list. That
enables many unpopular politicians to
retain their seats by being linked with
more popular colleagues.
Few foreigners know France, or French
public life, better than does the veteran
English journalist Sisley Huddleston. In
a recent book he notes that “It may
properly be said that never has the level
of French public life fallen so low. Never
has there been such disgraceful scenes,
free fights, uproar, invective. The intel-
lectual quality has never been so poor. I
think of the men I have known, the
Clemenceaus, Poincares, Tardieus,
Briands, and then I think of the men of
today.”
Huddleston reports that since 1945
something like 10,000 laws and decrees
have been enacted. A Frenchman can
hardly do anything without breaking some
law. That the country hasn’t suffered
economic collapse under its mass of regu-
lations, many impractical and some con-
tradictory, has been due to the people
ignoring them. — Castlereagh (N.S.W.).
Latin
The ancient controversy between the
Latins and the non-Latins cropped up
again at the end of the scholastic year
in Melbourne, and the schoolmen seemed
to be as unenlightened as ever on the
subject.
When all our books were written in
Latin we had to understand it or we
couldn’t read at all; a non-Latin was a
real illiterate in those days.
Latin these days as a language is as
dead as Caesar’s cat, and no books are
written in it. Yet some schoolmen still
believe that a knowledge of Latin is
essential to what they call a “liberal”
education, and the Victorian higher-school
system works on the assumption that
Latin is the language of literature and
culture.
As a result many products of our public
schools have wasted so much time over
acquiring an inadequate knowledge of
the language that they are often more
illiterate than bricklayers who may have
spent their leisure studying sociology,
history, economics, philosophy and litera-
ture in English at the National Library
in Melbourne. —F. S. (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 209
Across.
I—Essay1—Essay on a moustache and a
Pacific isle with a State bird let-
ting the musket-dropper ring one.
(5)
4 —Playwrights earn majestic neck-
wear. (9)
8 — Garments to asphyxiate. (5)
9 Ted’s hideout is indicated. (7)
10—Many pedigree-conscious Peru-
vians would claim this to be
glowing white-hot. (12)
12— Lent to Mark Antony by a friend,
a Roman, or a countryman. (3)
13— Do this in older music. (2)
14— Successful service given by this
aeronaut. (3)
15— Arab steed like a fish-hook. (4)
17 —Do you exist in the singular con-
tents of the LouVre? (3)
19 — Corno di Bassetto, the famous
music critic, in a wood. (4)
20 — Vowels matched hail. (3)
21 — Leave vitality. (2)
22 Australian town lets me swallow
duck. (3) .
26—Mother .Carey’s chicken street or
my favorite about fifty. (6-6)
28 —Arts graduate cut with poise. (7)
29 — Sir Toby indicates gratitude for
hospitality in the Ease. (5)
30 — War historian’s lecture gave Jack
an opportunity to go up in the
world. (9)
31 — The maid is badly chewn. (5)
Down.
1 — Thus a timber steamer character-
istic of some radio “operas.” (9)
2 Ran into a vehicle comrade
about the back of the hand. (10)
3 A companion of Jason with an
element on an auto lacking noth-
ing. (8)
4 Bacon may be thus more head-
strong. (6)
5 Interior finish. (6)
6 Extreme directions taken from
Winton. (4)
7 Girl State to pass away. (5)
9 —Boil in two short months. (6)
11 —Hatcher goes to the auto saleyard
in Wales. (10)
14—Exist. (3)
16 — She who is now Lady Olivier has
this Queensland centre. (9)
17 — Not in favor of an element of
poetry. (6)
18 — Chain-store legislation includes
cabbage salad? (4, 4)
23 Cuts down the spending color in
the steamer. (6)
24 — Famous Jewish play by Ansky.
(6)
25 — Mathematicians will agree that
bbb is obedient to this pepper
berry. (5)
27 —Hebridean isle mentioned on many
a schooner from N.S.W. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 208


AN
INDEPENDElir%
erv,ces^ t J %
m
: :
SSSs;
»
\
m
Choice of
e Peopl
Hy
Customers
like
Z"'"’rr,
'///
INDEPENDENT
. SERVICE STATION
<•*
52
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD . . • ALL STATES
