

FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS
BUY SEPPELTS SOLERO SHERRY
The Bulletin
RETREAT FROM SUEZ?
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74-No. 3815
Wednesday, March 25, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
Founded by “Bess of Hardwick,” Hardwick Hall Reflects Her Keen Ambition
DERBYSHIRE is renowned for the number of stately homes within jts
borders, and one of the most magnificent of these is Hardwick Hall,
which stands in 620 acres of parkland near Mansfield. This great mansion
was built by the Countess of Shrewsbury, the celebrated Bess of Hardwick,
in 1594, during the reign of Queen Elizabeth I. It is regarded as one of the
noblest Elizabethan houses in England.
The career of “Bess of Hardwick” is one of the romances of the first
Elizabethan period, for she began life as the daughter of a country squire,
and married for the first time at the age of fourteen. Her second carnage
was to Sir William Cavendish; one of their sons became the first Earl ot
Devonshire, who inherited Hardwick Hall, one of the many possessions of
this famous and wealthy family. Before her death in 1590 f ße^ r^s hu^ W 'ahd
became the wife of England’s premier Earl, the Earl of Shjewsbmy, and
enjoyed a fortune of £60,000 a year. Her ruling passion was the accumulation
of wealth and the advancement of her family. She was quite fearless, and
even braved the wrath of Queen Elizabeth I by marrying her daughter to
Charles Stuart, Earl of Lennox, and so brought to her descendants the
double heritage of Stuart blood and a claim to the throne of England.
In building Hardwick Hall she determined to establish a mansion worthy
of her rising fortunes, and the result must have more than satisfied her
ambitions. Both within and without, Hardwick is a monument to the skill
and craftsmanship of Elizabethan times. Outstanding features of the exterior
are the six lofty towers and open battlements, its vast areas of shimmering
glass and the graceful grey facade. , ..
The Long Gallery, which extends the whole 166 feet length of the east
front is considered the architectural masterpiece of the house. Light from
the enormous windows falls on tapestries and valuable paintings, including
one of Queen Elizabeth I. The chair which was used by the Queen in her
State Coach is to be seen in the great Drawing Room. The State Bedroom,
Presence Chamber and Mary Queen of Scots Room occupy the second floor,
and all are richly furnished and hung with beautiful tapestries Other notable
rooms include the Blue Bedroom, the Minstrel Gallery, the Great Halt and
the Chapel, hung with painted reproductions of “the St. Paul” cartoons of
Raphael In every detail Hardwick Hall reflects the grandiose and sumptuous
taste of the founder, whose wealth could command the best in art and
craftsmanship of the times in which she lived.


u I
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
" CUT EE RE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address ....
Age
The Red Page
KANGAROOS FOR EXPORT
Henry G. Lamond has for long
seemed to this reviewer by far the best
writer of animal-stories in Australia: not
so polished in style as some others who
attempt the genre, not so much a man of
letters, but much more a man of Nature.
Indeed, though he dramatises his material
nto a kind of fiction, he can always be
read simply as a naturalist; and his obser-
vations, confined to one locality and close
o the earth, are often much more acute
and vivid than the writings of our profes-
sional naturalists who sometimes succumb
to the temptation of trying to cover too
much territory or too many species in a
single volume.
Nothing could be more pleasing, then,
than to see his Big Red, the story of a
kangaroo up in western Queensland,
somewhere around the country of the
Diamantina, taken-up by an English pub-
lisher (Faber) and apparently intended
to be circulated also in America.
It must be said that it is a pretty grim
Australia which Mr. Lamond thus paints
for export. The “facts of life” are the
facts of life to Mr. Lamond ; he never
evades them, he never prettifies them,
but, grimly, he revels in them. Whether it
is love or lice among the kangaroos, noth-
mg is omitted to lessen the complete
realism of the description.
If the toughness of the bush is not
overstressed, it is certainly not under-
stressed. Frank Gaunt, Mr. Lamond’s
hero, a real bushman who died a little
while ago, is a kangaroo-shooter by pro-
fession ; and, though he never kills
wantonly, he and other shooters do do
away with a lot of Mr. Lamond’s four-
footed friends in the course of the book ;
while as acts of simple friendship to-
wards the kangaroo-hero, Big Red,
Gaunt “adopts” him by shooting him
through the ear, teaches him to fear man
by slaying, almost literally in his arms,
an old-lady kangaroo who is trying to
seduce him, and later gives him a second
lesson on the unwisdom of defying
kangaroo-shooters by expertly laying hirr
but with a waddy.
The sufferings of the kangaroos
when they are tormented by flies
after the wet season, when cattle go
mad and go blind, are described with fear-
ful exactitude; so is the fate of
drought-stricken emu unable in its weak
brain to solve the problem of how to
scoop a drink from the narrow trough at
Wilson’s Bore ; so are the effects of the
bite of a kangaroo-tick on stockmen.
The impression of toughness is intensi-
fied by a peculiarity in Mr. Lamond’s
prose-style. He has a way of using “that”
lor “the” (“That helpless lump of
flesh... .“That doe”.., .“Those kites”
.... “That thing”... .“That female
kangaroo”....) which, repeated hun-
dreds of times, imbues his writing with a
singularly emphatic, not to say pug-
nacious, quality; and when he goes so
far as to use “positively,” as he does less
frequently but with infinite emphasis
when it occurs (“Positively, had that
buck’s mother been alive he would have
loitered, killed time”.... “Positively, in
Western Queensland, kangaroos took* but
little notice of snakes”....) the reader
feels that he is being warned very sternly
indeed not to argue. Fortunately, this
reviewer would not dream of arguing with
Mr. Lamond about snakes and kanga-
roos in western Queensland.
There is, however—-at ail risks be it
said —just one thing missing from this
stark picture of the outback. It is not
the moments of happiness and beauty that
are obviously necessary to balance all
this hardness and suffering. There are
plenty of such interludes when the
kangaroos dance in the rain after the
drought, when young bucks face and leap
in sport early in the morning, when
flocks of budgerigars fill the air with
avalanches of jewels. The story, winding
its hard course through drought, flood
and a couple of excellent bushfires, is
fund a ment a lly happy in the acceptance
ox hardship as a natural condition of the
outback and in the survival and triumph
of Big Red. Yet, all the way through,
accepting the grimness as a true picture,
one feels there is something missing ; and
it took this reviewer quite a while to drop
to what it was.
It is, simply, the blue sky. Unless one
has missed it somewhere, the sky-cloth
of burning sapphire, against which all
the hard drama of the outback takes
place, is nowhere mentioned in the book.
A couple of kite-hawks had been dots
in the sky”— not in the blue sky.
Well, that is an oddity. One mentions
it partly as a piece of nature-observation
directed at the book itself, chiefly to
reassure the intending immigrant that the
outback, though undoubtedly as hard in
its hard moments as Mr. Lamond has
described it, isn’t quite so dark. Flood-
ing from that blue sky there is an over-
whelming and all-pervading magnificence
which this book, closely watching the
earth, has hardly touched upon... not
that, when he sees the Diamantina in
flood, Mr. Lamond is unaware of mag-
nificence :
And that river, the mighty Diamantina,
gulped as the waters poured into it; cracks
in its bed hissed as the stale air was driven
from them by the water which spread in
the channel. That old river, slow to move,
great in action, filled while one looked at
it.. ..Then, sure of its way, the river came
a banker It splashed when the tree fell,
and it laughed as it threw muddy froth over
it and picked it up to let it roll over and
over as it was carried somewhere —any-
where, nowhere, to go to Lake Eyre if the
river ran that far, to leave it stranded,
caught in the wires of some fence which
crossed the course of the stream. That
trunk was a toy to be discarded at the
river’s whim. The Diamantina was nearly
six miles wide in places a short three days
after the rains commenced.
The book is, in fact, minor criticisms
aside, a truly magnificent nature-story.
Keen observation and its rough vigor of
style are its strengths. It is as thoroughly
authentic in its own way as are the more
polished nature-writings of Henry Wil-
liamson ; and the central story, though
necessarily it follows the customary pat-
tern of escapes from man and other
menaces, is very well sustained and un-
usually rich, with the packing-in of extra
material from excursions into outback
towns and general bush-lore and legend.
It should be quite as enthralling for
Australian as overseas readers, for the
outback is rarely described as realistically
as this, and the kangaroo, so. far as this
reviewer knows, has never before been
so fully described in all his ways and
adventures. Many of the observations,
such as of the doe being buffeted about
the eyes by an eagle while another strikes
at her joey, will be new to most readers ;
and if other information is familiar, such
as that an old-man ’roo will bail-up
against a tree to confront attacking
dingoes, or that a doe will throw her joey
out of her pouch when hotly pursued by
dingoes or by horsemen, it is one thing
to know in a general way that such things
occur, and quite another thing to see
them happen before your very eyes as
they do in Mr. Lamond’s vivid narrative.
Arnold Bennett
As Max Beerbohm pointed out in
caricature, not the least effective of
Arnold Bennett’s creations was Arnold
Bennett; and in Reginald Pound’s
biography, Arnold Bennett (Heinemann),
we are shown how it was done.
Enoch Arnold Bennett .was born in
1867 in a drab pawnbroking-drapery
shop in Hanley, one of the six towns
which constitute Stoke-on-Trent, which
Bennett later reduced “for the sake of
euphony” to “The Five Towns.” His
father had been a schoolteacher, then
had failed in a pottery partnership, and
at the time of Arnold’s birth was studying
to become a solicitor. The family moved
to a better home, provided by the father-
in-law, in Waterloo Road, Burslem, the
“Trafalgar Road” of the “five towns”
novels; and there Bennett grew up and
played football to encouraging shouts of
“Come on, Knocker!”
The father gave up pawnbroking for
law ; and Arnold for a while was a clerk
in his father’s office in Hanley. But at
21 he got himself a junior post with a
firm of lawyers in Lincoln’s Inn Fields,
London; and two years later went to
board at the Chelsea home of Frederick
Marriott, art-master at Goldsmiths’ Col-
lege, London. The Marriotts held musical
evenings; and, to impress them, Bennett
resumed his boyhood piano-studies,
becoming a respectable performer of
Chopin and Mozart,
Linder the depraving influence of artists
and musicians he began to write for
“Tit-Bits"; got 10s. for a short piece
on “How a Case Is Prepared for Trial,”
and won a guinea for the week’s prize
short-story. A short-story, “A Letter
Home,” appeared in “The Yellow Book” ",
and after four years with the London
law-office he handed-in his resignation,
having bought the sub-editorship of the
magazine “Woman” with £3OO of his
father’s: “This was the last time I ever
said ‘sir’ to any man under the rank of
knight.” On “Woman”
he was “Barbara,” who wrote on books.
He shared with Gardner [the editor] the
pseudonym of “Marjorie,” who did “Town
Talk.” He wrote “Answers to Correspon-
dents” and, no doubt, most of the ques-
tions. That “Cecile” and “Lady Vain,”
writing comments on music and beauty-
culture, respectively, hid other activities of
his there is no evidence except a suspicious
competence of style ...
He earned £3 a week, wore a white
bowler-hat “as if he had just received
it for review,” became book-reviewer for
“The Academy,” wrote his first novel,
A Man From the North (1896), made
friends with H. G. Wells (1897), took
pupils “for private tuition in journalism,”
holidayed in Paris, came back to set up
house in Fulham, where he began to
give that attention to his ties and suits
that, in 1928, made him “The Tailor and
Cutter’s” “best-dressed man of the year,”
and met Lever Tillotson, of the Bolton
literary syndicate that peddled stories and
articles to small magazines and the pro-
vincial press:—
He gave some interesting details as to
current prices per thousand. Thomas Hardy
is being outstripped by some of the
younger men. He stands now equal only
with H. G. Wells at 12 guineas per thou-
sand, which is also the price of the bloocl-
and-thunder of William Le Queux. Stanley
Weyman, because of his larger following
in America, can only be bought at 16 to
18 guineas per thousand. Kipling stands
solitary and terrible at £5O per thousand
words, £2OO being his minimum for the
shortest short-story. What surprised me
most was a statement that W. W. Jacobs
(quite a new man, who has published only
two books of a quietly humorous nature,
but about whom an inordinate amount of
fuss has been made) recently refused an
offer of £5OO for six short stories . . .
Tillotson was there to sell stories to
Bennett, as editor; but Bennett didn’t
see why it shouldn’t work both ways, and
said so. But Tillotson said, “We never
buy stories from editors.” Bennett,
pointing out that “business is business,
the foundation of England’s glory,”
changed this decision, Tillotson agreeing
to market his writings provided there
was “Nothing supernatural. And nothing
against the trade-unions.”
For Tillotson he wrote several popular
serials, the first bringing him £75. Around
the turn of the century Bennett’s father
began a slow death from softening of the
brain (the course of the illness followed
out in Clayhanger ), and Bennett resigned
his editorship and took a country-house
near Dunstable, where he stayed, work-
ing on his Anna of the Five Towns until
his father died there in 1902. Then, the
new novel gone to the publishers and
his family re-settled in their home at
Burslem, Bennett left for Paris early in
1903.
Seen at that time by a Frenchman as
“looking like a well-fed, wealthy business-
man, boasting, familiar and coarse,
showing-off with exasperating patronage
as a French Bohemian,” Bennett had
come to Paris to polish himself as a
man-of-the-world and a cultivated gentle-
man. And how was Bennett, the almost
unknown freelance, the author of two
or three unsuccessful novels, most of his
money gone in looking-after his dying
father, able to bounce about Paris in this
manner?
The answer is J. B. Pinker, the literary-
agent. By the middle of 1903 Bennett
owed him £47 10s. lid., some of this
representing payment of £6 11s. a month
to Bennett’s mother. Pinker contracted
to pay Bennett £5O a month during 1904.
In 1910 Bennett owed Pinker £1157 13s.
6d. “Pinker was charging him five per
cent, and still believing in him.”
In Paris Bennett was visited at his
various places of residence by a succession
of young ladies, the first of whom was
“Chichi.” He worked on his second
“five-towns” novel, Leonora, and then
The Great Man, and wrote for the
English magazines; he hobnobbed in
cafds with young Mr. Somerset Maugham,
and put Maugham into a rage by correct-
ing his French. Nevertheless, says
Maugham, “His kindness glowed like a
halo about a saint.” This is one of the
points on which Bennett’s biographer
insists: he was a good man; he (later)
carried spare cheques in his pocket to
fill-out for needy authors; and through-
out his life lived under a sense of obliga-
tion to do the right thing, which is not
always to be expected in brilliant
careerists.
In 1906 Bennett became engaged to
Eleanor Green, the 25-year-old daughter
ff the wife of an American oil-man
iving in Paris: that is, he entered it in
the journal he kept all his life, “June 15,
1906: At 5 p.m. on this day in the forest
of Fontainebleau I became engaged to
marry EleanoraOn June 29 he wrot
to Wells and announced it. He told h
brother and sister in England.
It was an extraordinary affair. Th
girl seems to have left his numerou
letters lying about unopened. And
was not until August 3, six weeks afte
his announcement in his journal, tha
Bennett proposed to the girl, and wa
turned down:
Mrs. Joil, the former Miss Eleanor Green,
has clear recollections of the final scene,
but thinks it unfair to Arnold Bennett’s
memory to recall them publicly in detail.
It is sufficient to say that his speech-
difficulty appeared at its worst, that every
aspirate deserted him in this extremity and
that he was reduced to uttering comically-
pathetic threats of social excommunication
for Miss Green, “You’ll lose the respect
of the ’ole world —and Mr. and Mrs.
Farley, too.”
Eleven months after this terrible and
revealing scene, accentuated by what ha
not been referred to before, ffte chroni
interruption to his speech which wa
almost a seizure, Bennett was marriec
to a French girl from the provinces who
was working at her aunt’s dressmaking
establishment in Paris while she tool
lessons in elocution, and was in demand
at Parisian "‘evenings” for her recitation
of the poems of Baudelaire and Verlaine
In 1908, at their flat at Fontainebleau
he finished his greatest novel, The Ole
Wives’ Tale, the idea for which originatec
when a woman got up and moved to
another table when he sat opposite her
in a Paris restaurant.
In that year he wrote 423,500 words
He liked to write 2000 words a day, anc
was annoyed if his yearly average fel
below 1000 a day. By 1912 he was in
credit with J. B, Pinker some £l2OO ; and
his next statement of income was for
£6OOO. In 1928 he was to make as much
as £22,000; but it was not his finest
work which made the big income, but his
journalism—the little books on manage-
ment of life and affairs; the newspaper-
articles ; the book-criticism which, on the
“Evening Standard,” brought him £3OO
a month, “the highest-paid book-articles
in tire world”—800 to 1000 words a week.
The First World War, which threw him
among famous men on literary com-
mittees and spread his name on news-
papers at £lOO an article, pushed him
forward on the path he wanted to travel:
a country house in Essex, London flats,
a town house, 75 Cadogan Square, a
triumphal tour of America, dinner-
parties and receptions in an ever-
rarefying atmosphere of great and
fashionable names; a break with his wife,
who could not keep up with him; and a
socially-accepted union with a young
woman about half his age who bore him
a child and legally added his name to
hers.
It seems that the one thing that the
writer of popular books on the manage-
ment of life and on self-control could
not control was his lust for society; and
he literally worked himself to death to
get enough money to keep going: here
again, the irony is constantly enforced
throughout the biography that Bennett,
who had written himself up as a canny
author, a keen moneymaker, and who
was known to make a huge annual
income, never managed to consolidate his
earnings, and even on his deathbed was
worried over his financial insecurity.
a, Mr. Pound has written a biography
rich in allusions; and if it is hard for a
reviewer to cut a straight course through
it, it must be remembered that Bennett
is not the geniu§ of a steadily-rising pile
of masterpieces, but of a few widely-
spaced masterpieces surrounded by a
huge flutter of journalism ; and that the
journalism is as important to a study of
the author as the masterpieces. It was
the journalism which in the end made
Bennett one of the most powerful literary
men in England ; callers literally climbed
through his windows;
T. S. Eliot, consulting him about the
uncertain future of his magazine “The
Criterion,” struck him as being “a bit self-
centred. Twice I told him I had another
appointment, and at last I had to drag
him out of the club and drop him on the
pavement.”
We see him walking out of a dinner-
party given by Hugh Walpole because
there was no sweets-course, getting a
sweets-course at a London hotel, and
then returning to the party; dining with
Henry Ford, who told him he had once
bought 500 copies of Bennett’s How to
Live on 24 Hours a Day to give to
managers and others in his motor-works;
advising W. J. Locke’s widow about his
“infinitely foolish contracts” ; encourag-
ing (though who of importance would be
allowed not to?) the Sitwells (they called
him “Uncle Arnold”) and, last, but not
[ ea gt •
Noel Coward stood in the same nephew-
ish relationship. “Don’t leave me,” he
begged Bennett at a public dinner. I feel
on the very edge of hysteria among all
these important people.”
{“Red Page ” continued on page 35)


JTOaT* '■ "V
m
■
I
ill
••
mm
f V ' '»
mg
■
mmm
'' ' '': ••- '•■
- ■
£
■
<■*&#!
✓
' •
r
....
mamL,~irn&
mm ■ ■'■-,■■
i y iii
gi a»
••r: -
mmmm
Anthony Horderns’ will supply
finest quality Venetians
Parents certainly know more about children than bachelors do ... and Anthony Horderns’ know more
about Venetian blinds than any other retailer, because Venetian blinds are our “children.” Our Venetian
“Nursery” is one of the most specialised blind factories in Australia. That’s where some of the future
octogenarian Venetians arc coming from. No elixirs, no potions! Only good solid craftsmanship.
For example . . , every wooden slat is given three coats of paint ... and every slat is of Canadian
2
6 LLLLLLLI
. ■ ' . lilt ...... in 1.11-11. .... 111 ,11 1.1
Cedar (a light, durable timber that’s flexible as young
bamboo!) We will tailor them to fit any room or window
in your home, in either metal or wood. 24 men and hyper
modern machines imported from Overseas process them.
Each part of the blind is tested, and back it goes if not
perfect! You get quality, you get near-perfection in our
Blinds. And only 6/11 sq. ft. Minimum 12 sq. ft. per blind.
Left: If your blinds are worn or aged, we’ll rejuvenate them, give them
years more service. Wooden Venetians 3/9 per sq. ft. Minimum* 12 sq. ft.
A
advertising
truth
Horderns
nthony
r,r
m-
'■ w' ' -"t X .■ £, *
''SSSSSk-—...*.
Venetians can control the flow
of air into your home! Tilt the
slats to capturfe a cool breeze,
to keep out a draught. Vene-
tians air-condition your home.
mm.
m
Venetians give mellow diffused
lighting to your home. Just by
tilting the slats you can regulate
your room’s intake of light.
Soft, subdued shadows, or
brilliant light.
m
m
: i
m
Especially if you live in the
country, you’ll love the all'
summer shade Venetians give.
They cool your home, protect
your furnishings, curtains from
the sun’s hot hand.
mm
/
i- y<?
If you live in the metropolitan
area, the Venetians you order
from us we will personally fit
on the various windows in your
home. This gives your windows
perfect line, saves you worrying.
VENETIAN BLINDS, THIRD FLOOR. ’PHONE ORDERS TO M 2401. MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNE\


The Pacific Mystery
A KON-TIKI CONFESSION
By W. HART-SMITH
lii ITHOUT being in the least bit
\ A / nasty about it, may I ask H. A.
VV ’ Lindsay to answer, “Yes” or
“No,” has he read Thor Heyer-
dahl’s book American Indians in the
Pacific ? His disputing [in a Bulletin
Page 4 article] of Heyerdahl’s claims
reads exactly like one of my public lec-
tures after I had read the original Kon-
Tiki book, the story of the drift-voyage;
and after I had heard rumors of the book
that was to follow, the massive American
Indians in the Pacific.
Haying for years been a staunch pro-
tagonist of the west-to-east migration
theories, I felt Mr. Heyerdahl was doing
science a disservice. Who was this adven-
turous upstart, this plausible Columbus,
to throw sand in the complicated cogs
of a theory most laboriously built up
(or assembled?) by scientists of the calibre
of Dr. Peter Buck, Dr. Roger Duff and
others? I felt I had a duty to stand up
in public and defend them. In my adult-
education folders at this moment are the
notes of my lectures given to various
study-groups and assemblies last year,
They read very like Mr. Lindsay’s article ;
all the contra arguments are there.
Last November I bought American
Indians in the Pacific, its fat 800 pages
shouldering aside Dr. Buck’s The Coming
of the Maori, a nice scientific-looking (to
those likely to be impressed by the sight
of a well-dressed bookshelf) addition to
my collection. I started to read it. lam
now two-thirds of the way through.
It is unfair, but quite the natural thing
to do, to group Heyerdahl’s book with
other volumes of crankdom like Mc-
Millan Brown’s The Riddle of the Pacific
It’s quite the natural thing to do, if you
haven’t started at page 1 of American
Indians in the Pacific and waded through
to the end. “Waded through” is not quite
the phrase. It’s what I expected to have
to do. I found, instead, that I was soon
completely absorbed, dropped all other
reading and found Heyerdahl’s reasoning
so orderly, so scientific, and his argu-
ments so convincing, that, to put it as
Douglas Stewart did in his Red Page
review, “I think there’s something in it.”
To take up Mr. Lindsay on one point.
Heyerdahl has not “come along with
a theory that the Polynesian race is of
American origin.” All he is saying is
that a branch of the original yellow-
brown race, with its origins in Asia (right
so far, Mr. Lindsay) entered the Pacific
not through Melanesia or Micronesia, but
in a vast northward-turning arc to settle
on the coast and coastal islands of what
is now British Columbia. Here they
remained isolated for hundreds of years,
not only geographically from the rest of
the American continent because of the
Rockies, but culturally in the Stone Age
right up to the time they were first con-
tacted by Captain Cook.
Polynesian legend tells of a greater
Hawaiki behind the island Hawaiki, the
original continental homeland. They
were driven from this continental land
by wars. These wars, Heyerdahl assumes,
were the result of coastal invasions by
American Indians proper, who descended
on the narrow littoral and defeated one
or more tribes of these isolated proto-
Polynesians, driving them to sea in their
large ocean-going canoes. The actual
tribe is pinpointed as the Kwakiutl,
remnants of which /reached Hawaii as
drift-voyagers.
If Mr. Lindsay likes to refer to Captain
Cook’s journals he will notice the first
of many accounts of the astonishing cul-
tural similarities between these early
coastal Indians and the New Zealand
Maori. He will also notice that these
coastal Indians did make bark cloth, and
used pounders so similar they may almost
be described as identical.
Here, I’m afraid, is evidence that Mr.
Lindsay hasn’t read the book.
He will also note that these Kwakiut
people had no loom, but made fibre
blankets using the finger-weave method,
just as the Maori does, or did. They rub
noses in greeting, they build ocean-going
canoes of similar design; their houses
are similar, they make totem figures o
carved wood, ancestor figures, one
perched on top of another, just like the
Maori. There are language affinities too
affinities which link back again with
Indian and Indonesian peoples, as evi
dene© of original migratory sources anc
evidence of other branch migrations.
There are many things the direct west-
east migration authorities have to do to
their theories to make them hold together
It becomes, to my mind, necessary to
fill the gaps with a mass of preposterous
evidence. Any open-minded scholar who
has read Buck, Elsdon Best, Duff and
others will admit this is so. Some of
these authorities are themselves, at times,
compelled to admit it, compelled to admit
that the origin of the Polynesian is a
mystery.
Heyerdahl comes along and produces
a preposterous (or prodigious) mass of
evidence in favor of a new approach to
the problem. And what happens? Both
scientist and pseudo-scientist, using the
sacred name of science, hurl abuse at
Heyerdahl, Truly science progresses in
spite of science. It’s the same old story
all over again: the authorities don’t like
haying their pet theories upset. One of
their chief weapons is a patronising asser-
tion that the new theorist, no matter how
scientific he may be, is no recognised
authority, and therefore he has no right
to enter the field as a scientist.
I beg Lindsay to read the book, the
whole book, American Indians in the
Pacific, and let good, solid reasoning,
backed up by botanical, seriological
(blood-group tests), oceanographical and
other evidence have its say, through
Heyerdahl.
As for the second part of the theory,
the story of the white-haired cultusp-
bearers of pre-Columbian American
myth, who set off in balsa rafts into the
Pacific and settled many, or most, of the
islands before the Maori-Polynesians got
there . , , that is another story, and just
as fascinating, just as scientific, if to be
scientific is to start attacking a mystery
as if nothing were known and advance
cautiously, step by step, as free as pos-
sibly from prejudice.
Birth of an Opus
MIKE ROFONE, Butch
Maginti and A 1 Falfa were
easily Tin Pan Alley’s most
successful team of com-
posers.
It was they who had established
the tradition, now departed from
only by those who would rashly
court disaster, that for any pop.
tune that is to head the hit-parade
no fewer than three are needed to
compose it>
They had first hit the headlines
with the sensational sentimental
smash-hit “Sal, I Knoo Yer!” which
they had brilliantly composed by
slowing down the “Allelujah” chorus
from “The Messiah.” It had grossed
35 “grand.”
They had followed this up with
another great success, “When Yew
Kiss Me, Honey, I Go All Candied.”
They had had no need to alter more
than about four notes of the Funeral
March from Beethoven’s “Eroica”
Symphony for this. It had sold 2\
million disks.
And who doesn’t remember their
famous “Lifer’s Lament,” which sent
the sales of handkerchiefs sky-
rocketing astronomically and was
sobbed simultaneously over 128
stations? For that, Brahms’s
“Lullaby” hadn’t even needed a
tempo change.
But now the trio were worried.
Most of Tschaikowsky had been
worked out and all the slow move-
ments from Chopin’s best-known
works. They’d listened agonisingly
to 27 symphonies of Haydn without
getting an idea. All the old-time
ballads had already been done again.
Mike had suggested a potpourri of
“Alice, Where Art Thou?” “Clemen-
tine” and “If Those Lips Could Only
Speak,” but A 1 ruled it out.
“It looks,” said Butch gloomily,
“as if we might have to rustle up a
toon of our own.”
A 1 looked at him hard. “Are you
goin’ a bit queer?” he rasped.
“Well, we’ll have to 8o somethin ”
Butch replied. “Our publishers are
howlin’ for another winner like
‘Hoity Toits.’ ”
“Yair, but where can we git
another melody like that thing of
Schubert’s? Switch the radio on,
Mike.”
Mike turned the knob. “There’s
a ball-game down in Detroit I wanta
look at,” he said. “This ain’t the
station”—-and he switched over from
the slow, soft music that had begun
to flood the room.
“Switch back again, quick! ”
yelled Al.
“Aw, are y’ nuts? It’s only one
o’ them long-haired catgut-scrapers,”
protested Mike. “Let’s get on
to”-
“Switch back again!” ordered Al
abruptly.
Puzzled, Mike switched the
stations, and Al sat listening intently.
After quarter of an hour Mike
complained about the noise, but Al
shut him up with an impatient wave
of the hand and a snapped “We
gotta wait till we hear what the
thing is, ain’t we?”
When orchestra and violin had
ceased the announcer gave the name
of the work. Al grabbed his Stetson.
“Hold everything!” he said. “An’
get ready for some woik. I’ll be
right back.”
He returned shortly and trium-
phantly tossed the sheet-music down
on the desk, “That’s it—Brahms’s
Violin Concerto. Not bad stuff for
an old-time guy. Soon’s I heard it I
knoo it was wasted bein’ played by
an orchestra an’ a fiddler. We’ll use
that slow bit, but bump her up to six-
eight time. Now, let’s git goin’ with
the woids. I bin chewin’ ‘baby’ over
in me mind. Reckon it’ll fit in swell
with the music hotted up to umpty-
iddy stuff. Come on, now.”
This was the result of their corn-
bined genius:
Ah kaint do no thinkin’
Just fur thinkin’ o’ ma baby,
Ma 10 stone 13 batf y who ’ s
B u?“ajkta' ’Sf someTwSdo-,
Well, Ah’m thinkin’ now that maybe
Ma baby might git like her Ma
An ’ soon she ’ u start to sPread-
“Swell!” said Al, reading it over.
“But we’ll want another voice.”
“What’s wrong with Diana
Honeybunch’s?” asked Butch.
“She’s yawped our songs over the
hook-ups, she’s ace-high on the tele-
vision-screens, she’s gotta”
“I don’t mean voice like that, I
mean voice. She’ll have to sing two
voices, won’t she, or it won’t fill the
disk out. Come on, let’s get to woik
on the second voice.”
Once more the combined genius
set to work and turned out the
second verse:
fjer face, it sure needs jackin’ up,
She bulges where she shouldn’t, see?
But > still, I’ll soon be packin’ up
v J r ° soutl ? to Tennessee.
For shes ma weakness, you 11 have
guessed.
She lives down thyer, an’ that’s the
... P° in L .
her brains ain’t quite the
Her ma —she runs an eat-up joint,
“Baby o’ Mine” spon had the sales-
graph going straight up like a jet-
fighter. Every bobbysoxer in the
country had bought a disk of it, some
several to replace the worn-out ones.
The first six bars were selected, by
arrangement, as the signature-tune
for the Maizy-Krunch breakfast ses-
sion listened to by 15 million, which
sent the sales soaring again. For
three months it topped all hit-
parades, and Count Boozie’s Band
featured it every night at the request
of rapt nightclubbers.
Then one afternoon the trio of
successful composers were in their
palatial office, gratifyingly studying
the latest sales report from the pub-
lishers and disk-distributors when
Mike snapped the radio on. Sud-
denly music filled the air—music
which caused Al, who’d been sitting
on the back of his neck reading the
reports, to come like a shot to the
vertical.
He pointed to the television-set.
A violinist was swaying gently as he
played in front of an orchestra.
“Do you get that?” shouted Al
livid with fury. “It’s our ‘Baby o’
Mine’ they’re playin’. The nerve o’
some guys, piratin’ our toon. Git-
our. lawyers on the phone right
away, Mike. They’ll have to git an
injunction or somethin’ out against
’em. We’ll teach ’em they kaint do
that to us, thievin’ our brains! ”
Bo.
New Zealand Flying Saucers
yAST spaces of seas and wild winds
have not protected New Zealand
from flying - saucer visitations.
Indeed, New Zealanders are a jump
•- ahead of Australians in having a Civilian
Flying Saucer Investigation Group, which
is affiliated with a kindred body in Con-
necticut, U.S.A.
The motto of the parent body in the
U.S. is “Forever Looking Up.”
Well, that’s appropriate enough in New
Zealand, where for donkey’s years the
inhabitants have been looking into the
skies at all manner of strange lights.
Being so near the regions of the aurora
australis may have something to do with
these phenomena.
Just on 100 years ago Charles Enderby,
of the famous whaling firm of that name,
founded a colony on the shores of Sarah’s
Bosom in the Auckland Islands —a port
now known as Port Ross. Sir Charles,
as he became in reward for his scientific
work, was more bent on scientific work
than on whaling and farming, and in his
mansion in the town of Hardwicke he had
telescopes and other scientific apparatus,
and spent long hours in studying the
heavens.
Among the phenomena which claimed
his attention were some flying lights,
which at certain seasons sped across the
sky from south to north.
Apparently these are permanent
features of the southern skies, for over
50 years ago they were very plentiful,
especially at the southern end of the South
Island of New Zealand ; sometimes skim-
ming low, sometimes fleeing at great speed
and at great height. Opinion of scientists
and others at the time favored the idea
that they were balls of magnetic iron-
gas ; being magnetic, the iron-gas always
flew northward towards the Pole, before
vanishing in warmer airs. These lights
were sometimes red in color, sometimes
very white and bright, apparently depend-
ing on the temperature.
In a Christchurch newspaper dated
1906 appeared an account of a strange
visitor to Westland, west of the Southern
Alps. It was a long, pencil-shaped object,
looking like a machine of some sort. As
it sped from west to east at high speed
it gave out a faint orange glow. Along
its sides, like cabin lights, were gleams of
purplish color. The people who saw it
are described as all being sensible and
unimaginative.
This strange thing disappeared over
the Alps at such speed that 10 minutes
later it was seen over Canterbury’s coastal
area. Here also it was watched by many
reputable people. The time was in the
early evening and the thing was completely
visible.
WILL LAWSON.
ROSE LINDSAY'S
MEMOIRS
Another rich instalment of Mrs.
Norman Lindsay’s fascinating
memoirs. Tells of the buying of
Jthe Springwood home and the
original decorating of it under
directions of artist Harley Grif-
fiths, the “menagerie” acquired
there, and such visitors as Back-
haus, Chris Brennan, Louis
Stone, Rayner Hoff and Hugh
McCrae,
♦
In next week’s “Bulletin”


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 25, 1953
VoL 74—No. 3815
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney: Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington,
PARLIAMENT IN DECLINE
Federal Parliament will go into recess at the end of
this month to enable its members to enter into a
Senate campaign—or rather a half-Senate campaign—
which will culminate in a vote on May 9.
It is the third Commonwealth election campaign
since December, 1949, and it is likely as not to lead
immediately to a fourth, just as costly and disturbing
to business and goodwill as the others.
It seems about time that the electors themselves
had a campaign and demanded both that Parliament
devise a method whereby a stable majority may be
obtained in both Houses ,at proper constitutional
intervals, and that their mandates be then carried out
with diligence and attention to duty by members. It
is absurd that the fate of the country’s policy should
be decided between general elections by a vote for half
the members of the Senate when the Government has
been given an overwhelming mandate less than two
years before. It is doubly absurd in view of the fact
that the method of election is so complicated that
only a mathematician can understand it, and that it
is as likely as not to provide a deadlock vote even for
a Government which could win a substantial majority
of the electorates in the House of Representatives. It
would not be too much to demand that the present
silly scheme for the constitution of the Upper House,
devised overnight by an amateur who had had no
experience whatever of the workings of Parliament,
should be jettisoned before the election.
It is perfectly within the province of Parliament
to postpone the expensive and futile business by legis-
lation, but that is not likely to be done for fear of
political repercussions. A howl would go up from the
“Labor” party like that of a jackal robbed of its
morsel, particularly since proportional-representation
and the complications which are at the root of the
present system were introduced wilfully by “Labor” in
1949, when it knew it was bound to be swept out of
office in the House of Representatives, in order
deliberately to create a condition of deadlock and
enable it to thwart the expressed will of the country,
which is nothing to a party whose ambitions are
totalitarian.
The Government, of course, must bear responsi-
bility for its timidity in not having taken drastic
action ; but the truth seems to be that the policy of all
Governments toward Parliament is very much the
same. Even if they are Parliamentary-minded they
accept, perforce, the conditions in which they govern
and in the nature of things on assuming office agree
with Candide that whatever is is best. They are
caught in toils from which they cannot hope to escape
in a short three-year reign.
The conditions, however, could hardly be more
alarming. In the last 10 years of “Labor” rule the
influence of Parliament declined till now it is almost
negligible. “Labor” itself accepts the principle of
government by politbureau to such an extent that last
week even saw the spectacle of the Minister of the
Interior being forced to cut off the telephones and lock
the doors of the rooms of the Leader of the Opposi-
tion in Melbourne because they had been captured by
one of his A.L.P. masters, Mr. Kennelly, secretary of
the Federal executive of the party,- as his own adminis-
trative headquarters from which he issued orders to
his Parliamentary helots.
The civil service has expanded and grown in
power and political influence and riches to such an
extent that it has now become almost unmanageable
for Parliament. Ministers are its playthings rather
than its masters. In at least one department, the Post
Office, the first act of a Minister in these days on
assuming office is to sign an authority to civil servants
to do nearly everything which the Act prescribes that
the Minister himself should do.
Canada, as large territorially as Australia, with
several times its annual production and about twice its
population, not to mention that it has a situation which
places it directly next door across the Arctic from a
giant aggressor, runs all its defence services with a
single Minister, outside the Supply Minister; but in
Australia there are Ministers for Defence, Army, Navy
and Air Force, National Service, Repatriation, Defence
Production and Supply—the latter manages the affairs
of Woomera. The same sort of thing goes on in
State Governments. The pace is usually set by “Labor”
Governments when in office, and those which succeed
them follow suit because the distribution of represen-
tation in the Ministry has become a matter of regional
patronage, and it is as much as their lives are worth
to offer fewer perquisites to any State than “Labor.”
Meanwhile, Parliament goes down and down. Its
decisions are made for it in advance. It debates only
LOS ANGELES
ROU^
Mexico city
GOING OR COMING?
when Ministries allow it to debate and for as long
as it suits them that it should debate. If the tone
becomes dangerous to any Ministry the gag is
hurriedly applied. If a member kicks over the traces
he is removed from the party list of speakers which is
sent up to the Chair by the Whip. There has been
more than one incident in the past two or three
Parliaments in which individual members with con-
sciences have had to fight tooth and nail to secure their
right to be heard, the pressure being applied at various
times on both sides of the House.
The House itself is allowed to debate finance for
limited periods, but always under the shadow of the
gag. It has no real control of finance, which has
become so complicated that no ordinary member has
a chance of effectively dissecting the Estimates.
Auditor-Generals who used to provide guidance,
expressed in fearlessly critical language, are no
longer so critical. Possibly they do not under-
stand the Estimates any more than members do.
As to votes of revenue which are supposed to derive
from the discussions of Parliament, these are accepted
by Governments and the civil service with condes-
cension, much in the same way that the House
Commons accepts its privileges from the Crown “as
a matter of respect,” but the orders of Parliament are
not regarded if they conflict with the Ministerial or
public-service will. Votes are exceeded brazenly or
even transferred to purposes other than those for
which they were designed, without reference to Parlia-
ment, and party majorities are uniformly prepared to
accept the will of Ministries in such matters. The
Speaker of the House of Representatives has cited a
case in which Parliament was asked to authorise the
expenditure of £5,000,000 spent three years before by a
Ministry long out of office which could not be called
to account —its Treasurer had long been dead before
Parliament was asked to vote him the money. The
proceedings of Parliament are marked by a shocking
inattention to duty, by absenteeism, both local and
otherwise. The House is more than half-empty except
at popular broadcasting hours. Its voting is almost
exclusively on party lines.
It is not yet fully true to say that the Parliamentary
system has broken down ; but it is fast breaking down
in Australia, especially in States like N. S. Wales
(where the newly-elected Parliament s first act has been
to adjourn for several months, apparently to prevent
discussion of matters and appointments upon which
debate might be serious for the Ministry) and m
Queensland. There the locally-manufactured rolls and
gerrymandered electorates must before long mean the
death of the party system, since at present it is impos-
sible to conceive circumstances under which any party
except “Labor” would be allowed to win.
The same sort of thing is over the horizon in the
Federal sphere, and will surely eventuate the next time
“Labor” has a substantial spell of office —numerous
leaders of “Labor” are boasting that it will. It would
be less imminent if Parliament conducted itself less on
sectional principles of “the party right or wrong.”
As it is it agrees to be unanimous only when its own
interests are involved, as in some such matter as
privilege or an increase in members’ salaries.
At the same time Parliament cannot wholly be
blamed for its atmosphere, which is only a reflection of
the state of public opinion. Australia is no longer
anything like a united nation. It is an agglomeration
of selfish pressure-groups, each struggling fiercely to
get the largest possible squeeze of the orange regardless
of the interest and security of the whole —selfish parties,
selfish States, selfish industries, selfish groups and,
largest and most powerful of all, selfish bureaucracies
and public services which have become enormous,
ambitious and dominating.
Each of these groups strives all the time to
increase its vested interest in Commonwealth revenues.
And weak and subservient Parliamentary government
suits all of them.
A Wild-rat's Nest
That fabled master of the mixed metaphor who once
proclaimed to the House of Commons: “I smell a
rat. I hear it buzzing through the air. I shall nip it
in the bud” has more than one kindred spirit among
the orators of Canberra, where one of our legislators
recently said of a member of the Television Com-
mission that he had a finger in every pie, and had
been appointed in the interests of the graziers for the
purpose of pulling the wool over the eyes of the people.
The honorable member made it clear that his own
vision was unimpaired by the wool. He could clearly
see that “the people will be suitably softened until
they are prepared to swallow the bait.”
But it is not only in the field of metaphor that
the Commons man would feel at home in Canberra.
In the matter of detecting plots he would find himself
among equals. , , .
If there is a rat to be smelt there is no one
quicker than Eddie Ward to smell it—unless the keen
nasal organ of Arthur Calwell is sited to windward of
him ; if there’s a buzz to be heard, Eddie’s is the ear to
hear it; a bud to be nipped and the eager thumb and
forefinger of Eddie’s right hand twitch to be at it.
And, of course, it goes without saying that if there is
a mare’s-nest to be found or a wild goose to be chased
E. J. Ward is the man for the job.
The latest wild-rat’s nest of which the member
for East Sydney has smelt the buzz is naturally a plot
to hoodwink the worker, though Eddie speaks darkly
of it as “a conspiracy between certain interests to keep
the basic wage down and to create the illusion that
inflation has been arrested.” In Ward’s view this can
be done very simply. All that is necessary is for the
commercial houses that supply the information on
which the basic-wage adjustments are made to give
misleading information, “knowing that it cannot be
checked 95
That nest just won’t hold water. As a former
Minister for Labor, Ward should know that the infor-
mation is not supplied by merely a handful of people
who could put their heads together and cook-up a
mystery pie. Each month the prices of a whole range
of items are obtained from “about ten retailers” in
each capital and “about five” in each of 27 provincial
towns. There are penalties against submitting false
returns, and there is provision for field officers of the
Statistician’s department to visit stores to check the
information in the returns. For Eddie’s conspiracy to
be of any value would entail the collusion of some-
where between 150 and 200 retailers, spread over 33
cities and towns and supported by Government officials
in six States.
Mr. Ward, inflation’s staunchest advocate, is old
enough to know that that horse won’t bark even if he
looks it in the mouth all the way back from the water.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Sydney's Royal Show
Sydney’s 131st Royal Show opens at the
72-acre Moore Park stand on Friday
and looks like being a boomer. It will
run for 10 days and eight nights, and the
R.A.S. expects that 1£ million people will
pass through the turnstiles, not counting
those who shin over the fence and
smuggle themselves in as prize roosters.
It ought to scintillate, since it is super-
vised by Sinclair, Somerville, Skidmore
and Sarina, sited in Sydney and stagger-
ingly stupendous. It mirrors more than
130 years’ achievement by a community
in the development of the British Com-
monwealth, and is an international attrac-
tion, drawing visitors from all parts of
the world.
This year more than 1,000,000 pounds
of live beef on the pedigreed hoof will
be paraded, more than half the progeny
of cattle imported since 1945 from every
major beef-producing country in the
world. Australia’s job is to build up the
production of beef, processed milk, mutton
and lamb, pig-meats, butter, wheat, oats,
barley, maize, linseed, grain-sorghum,
rice, cotton, tobacco and sugar. Some
results of the production campaign will
be seen at Sydney Show.
The R.A.S. of N.S.W. was not the first
show-promoting organisation formed in
Australia. Tasmanians held their first
show in 1821, whereas the first N.S.W.
show was held a year later, at Parra-
matta, where a series of market fairs
began in 1812. The passage of time has
not changed the purpose for which the
first Show was held —to encourage,
through friendly rivalry, improvement in
stockbreeding and agricultural produc-
tion, and to provide capital to promote
a better scientific approach to problems
connected with the major land industries
of the Commonwealth. Queen Victoria
granted the society her sanction to use
the prefix “Royal” in 1891. Twenty-two
years earlier the society had been incor-
porated by an Act of the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment, and in 1911 was given ownership
of the showground site by the State Gov-
ernment.
Today the Show is big business. If it
could be bought it is estimated that it
would cost f A 10,000,000, exclusive of the
R.A.S. assets, which alone are worth more
than £A4,000,000. (Many • exhibitors
claim their exhibits are priceless.)
This year 6184 animals, the biggest
collection in the society’s history, will be
paraded. The stock include 1002 beef
and fat cattle, 975 dairy cattle, 1110 horses
(280 trotters), 2289 dogs, 120 milch-
goats, 532 pigs and 156 cats.
Many stock will be air-freighted from
inter-State properties to the Show. Seven
horses are being brought by sea from
New Zealand, other stock will be hauled
by train and road-trailers, forming a
procession from the rich outback to the
metropolis whose 1,500,000 people give
over their city for a week each year as a
gesture of appreciation to the men on
the land.
The comprehensive displays arranged
by commercial exhibitors and agricul-
turists, as distinct from those engaged
in stock-farming, provide additional
appeal. Because the State’s secondary
industries have outgrown the show-
ground’s I\\ acres, not all the firms
which want to exhibit can get space.
Apart from its recognised educational
influence, the Show is accepted as a fit-
ting occasion for Easter-carnival gaiety,
and the society provides 60 separate
picnic areas and a day-nursery and baby-
clinic staffed by skilled personnel.
The R.A.S. has a membership restricted
to 6000, and is managed by a governing
honorary council of 58, who represent
every phase of Australian national life.
Total cost of staging the Show will exceed
£150,000, about £lO,OOO of which goes
on five district exhibits which make one
of the finest spectacles in the world, and
contain more than 20,000 separate items
of farm and manufactured agricultural
products. This year the society will pay
£26,800 in cash prizes and award 650
trophies, valued at more than £3OOO, to
winners in 3519 class competitions.
During Show week the ground staff
attends to 100,000 flowering late-summer
and early-autumn annuals, 1500 named
varieties of dahlias and 500 flowering and
ornjamental shrubs, 1080 trees, water-
lilies, goldfish-ponds and acres of Ax-
minster-like green lawns. The colorful
night scene is enhanced by a canopy of
80,000 electric-lamps, the largest 2500
candlepower and batteries of 50,000-
candlepower searchlights, powered by the
society’s own generating-station, the out-
put of which is greater during Show week
than in any town outside of Sydney and
Newcastle. The grounds have all the
amenities of a modern town, police-
station, fire-station, post and telegraph
office, banks, eating houses, public-health
centres, clubs, meeting-halls, spacious
grounds and living-quarters for exhibitors.
In view of all this, and of the many
other R.A.S. activities which are not men-
tioned here, only a churl could stay away
from the place, only a nark decry it.
More Dithering About Wheat
Commonwealth Minister for Commerce
and Agriculture McEwen has invited
State Agriculture Ministers to meet him
in Canberra next Monday “to consider
a wheat-stabilisation scheme in the light
of the outcome of the International
Wheat Agreement discussions in Wash-
ington.” Whether there’ll be any “out-
come” to reflect a light wasn’t certain
at the weekend.
What was certain was that this starry-
eyed plan of fixing the price of a com-
modity which one set of nations has and
a larger set of nations hasn’t is creaking
at the joints. What the Washington
“talks” had come down to when this was
written was a sort of bazaar-chaffering
between four exporters (United States,
Canada, Australia and France) and 42
importers. Another big exporter—
Argentina—wasn’t in it.
Last word last week was an “ulti-
matum” to the importers to better their
offer of a ceiling-price of A 17s. 2d. a
bushel or go home. The exporters’ “last”
offer was A 18s. 9d. The importers with-
drew to ponder, and Australian Wheat
Board Chairman Teasdale flew to Syd-
ney to tell reporters that Australian
farmers shouldn’t worry if there was no
I.W.A. because wheat on a free export
market would “stabilise” at about 20s. 6d.
“But,” said he, “there must be orderly
marketing.”
Simultaneously Victorian Premier
Cain was telling a Victorian wool- and
wheatgrowers’ conference “never to de-
part from a home price based on produc-
tion costs,” and that he “favored” orderly
marketing and a wheat-“stabilisation”
planj Whereupon Mr. Hunter announced
his “very grave fear that forces were at
work to undermine the principles of the
wheat-stabilisation plan.”
If by “forces” Mr. Hunter meant
weather, economics, international desires
and a general weariness of all these
socialistic nation-to-nation trading
schemes, he was dead right. There is
some sort of mordant amusement in the
reflection that local wheatgrowers’ spokes-
men never stop kicking the stabilisation
scheme until something threatens to
destroy it. As it stands it is a thing of
shreds and patches, has made the wheat
industry the football —or, rather, the
Aunt Sally—of party politics and, as far
as can be ascertained, hasn’t really satis-
fied anybody.
A Record of Phantoms
Announcing that “civilian employment
reached its peak in November, 1951, and
had afterwards fallen steadily,” the Com-
monwealth Statistician said that in that
month 2,643,100 people were employed,
not counting farm-workers and parlor-
maids, and that the total had fallen to
2,522,000 last January. This, according
to a newspaper report, meant that 121,000
fewer people were working.
But, spurred by this superficial conclu-
sion, Mr. Holt’s Department of Labor
and Industry did a little research, and
Mr. Holt said figures produced “gave the
brightest [employment] picture since the
end of 1951.” He went on to say that
applications for unemployment-relief by
men had fallen by 6879 in February last,
there were 10,274 fewer men and 254
fewer women out of work, there was a
marked increase in the demand for labor,
and Commonwealth Employment Offices
had 8666 jobs waiting in February, as
compared with 6746 in January. Also,
a lot more people had been placed in
jobs.
This is typical of politics in Australia
just now. Every tfime an official statis-
tician issues a set of figures some Minister
or other displays extreme sensitivity
about it and hurriedly calls on his officers
for a counter-statement. Indeed, so
extensive has the habit become in State
and Federal politics that a lot of public
servants seem tQ be doing nothing else
but watch each other’s statements. Nor
is it confined to .Government depart-
ments. The secretary of some private
organisation—farmers, motor-traders, a
trade-union, a suburban progress associa-
tion has only to get into the Press with
some figures and up bobs a Minister
somewhere to explain or confute.
Mr. Holt needn’t have bothered his
head about the statistician’s statement.
Unless the people are suffering from
amnesia they know that the 2,643,100
figure for November, 1951, is full of
phantoms. That was the year of fantastic
wool prices, fantastic * spending, fantastic
plethora of jobs. Thousands of men held
two jobs, many held three, some even
four. Large numbers of women worked
in two places. People took annual holi-
days and went to another job in another
place. They walked out of one job into
another. Unionists went on strike and
worked somewhere else until the strike
was settled—often retaining the second
job when they returned to the first.
Biggest exploiters of the situation were
the salaried classes in both private and
Government employment. Many not
only worked at two jobs ; they sent their
wives to work, or the wives just went.
A large proportion of these second jobs
were held under fictitious names. Em-
ployers didn’t care. So Joe Blow, a
9 a.m.-to-5 p.m. clerk by day, became
Bill Smith, a 7 p.m.-to-midnight factory-
worker by night, and frequently a Satur-
day-and-Sunday “casual.” Mrs. Blow
sometimes had two names. Thus, in
employment statistics, J. Blow and W.
Smith made at least two, when in actual
fact they were only one. And it has
come out that numbers are working “the
double” —collecting unemployment-relief
and earning good money as “casuals”—
a taximan saying he has driven wharfies
from their work to collect their “dole-
money.” i
The true figures will never be known.
But an accurate statement of the 1951
position would be; There were 2,643,100
jobs in progress, but not 2,643,100 people
employed, because large numbers of
people were working at two jobs. When
the boom passed its peak and the fantastic
demand for labor eased, many ceased to
hold two jobs, though' their phantom
figures remain in the records.
Ministers could save themselves a lot
of heartburn by insisting on proper
analysis of figures before they’re made
public.
Newcastle's Water
“Abdul Assiz”: The announcement on
March 11 of the appointment of the
recently-unseated N.S.W. Minister for
Labor and Industry, Mr. Frank Finnan,
to the presidency of the Hunter District
Water Supply and Sewerage Board, fol-
lowing the\ resignation of Mr. C. G.
Schroder, wks received with incredulity
and amazement by every Newcastle voter,
excepting the few who have come to
regard political nest-feathering as an
integral plank in the party game.
In this case the importance to the
Hunter district of appointing someone
of outstanding technical ability, as well
as proved administrative talent, was so
obvious that the apathy usually exhibited
towards political appointments—and so
well demonstrated when “Admiral” Mc-
Girr was appointed to the Maritime Ser-
vices Board—was notably absent.
The Newcastle Chamber of Commerce
executive met, in fact, on the next day
and unanimously requested the Lord
Mayor of the city to call a meeting
of protest. This resulted in the un-
precedented decision by the City Council
to authorise the calling of a public meet-
ing, as well as making its own protest.
On March 3 the chamber had written
to F. H, Hawkins, M.L.A., who normally
acts as spokesman for Newcastle’s
interests in the Legislative Assembly,
asking him to place before the Premier
the importance of appointing a properly-
qualified successor to Mr. Schroder, and,
receiving no reply, a further letter was
sent, on March 12, asking that represen-
tations as to Finnan’s unsuitability for
the post should be made to Mr. Cahill.
On the morning of March 17 the chamber
sent an appeal by urgent telegram to
the Governor of N.S.W. requesting him
to intervene in the matter. This was fol-
lowed by a letter of the same date giving
details of the position and of the New-
castle reaction to the appointment.
The issue is further confused by
Premier Cahill’s statement on February
23 that, if the services of the former
Minister for Labor and Industry could
be retained, it might be a good thing for
the State. He added, “I don’t know of
anything at present, though.” A report
was then current that Mr. Finnan was
to be appointed Director of State Lot-
teries, and it should be noted that Mr.
Schroder’s resignation had been in Mr.
Cahill’s hands before the end of January
—that is, before the State elections.
The appointment of Finnan will
almost certainly have repercussions
on the availability of Federal funds
to cover the urgent and essential
work which is under consideration for
additional water-supply. The recommen-
dations with reference to this project are
being made by Swedish engineers, whose
advice, it may be confidently assumed,
is not colored by local political con-
siderations.
Dumb Dora's Vote
Although “Labor” professes to feel th
it has the Queensland Senate electi
m the bag,” the intensive campaign t
party is planning for Gair’s State show
that it is not really so confident of victo
as it claims. What is certain is that t
voting in Queensland will be very close
whichever party wins will do so by
small margin. This probably appli
also to Westralia and Tasmania, but
there is an even number of vacanci
(six) to be filled in each of those State
it can make no difference to the resu
which way the balance falls. But
Queensland, where a score of 50.01 p
cent, would give a party three sea
while its opponent with 49.99 per cen
got only two, the narrowness of tl
margin becomes very important,
could easily mean that victory at th
polls on May 9 would be decided by th
draw for first position on the ballo
paper.
It is generally accepted that first pos
tion is worth a considerable number o
votes, owing to the propensity of certai
voters to “vote” straight down the cart
without knowing or caring to whic
parties the candidates belong. There
no way of assessing accurately th
number of these windfall votes, but
comparison of the votes cast for the Com
munist gropps in N. S. Wales and Vic
toria at the 1949 and 1951 Senate elec
tions suggests that it is in the vicinity o
one to two per cent.
On May 9 that could easily be suffi
cient to decide the issue in Queenslanc
which means that in all probability th
votes of these blind stabbers would decid
whether or not the Senate was to be
deadlocked.
There is a simple way of avoiding this
If the votes of the Dumb Doras anc
Dicks can’t be eliminated they can a
least be made to cancel each other out
This could be done by printing two set
of Senate papers. In those supplied to
half the electorates in each State th
Liberal-Country-party candidates could be
placed first; in the other half the “Labor’
team would go on top. The chang
might mean a little trouble for party
managers, as advertising and how-to-vote
cards would be slightly complicated; bu
that is a minor matter. The importan
thing is that Dumb Dora would be rele
gated to her proper role of electora
nonentity, along with her equally irre
sponsible husband or brother, Dumb
Dick.
Sh! It's About Sex!
Sydney, which, in the eyes of the res!
of Australia, is regarded as the country’s
most advanced, blase and naughty city,
was horrified lately to discover a
State schoolteacher in the very act of
teaching little boys what may be termed
a primer of sex knowledge So great was
the shock that the Minister for Educa-
tion ordered the presumptuous fellow to
desist, declaring that teaching such les-
sons was a job for the parents.
Though it is obvious that sex instruc-
tion is, in the present state of education,
not a subject for teaching in primary
schools, it is even more obvious that few
parents have either the ability or the
willingness to instruct their children in
this matter.
This is largely because the desirability
of sex instruction has been talked about
for more than a generation, but scarcely
a darned thing has been done about it.
The result is that a supposedly enlightened
community trembles between shame and
sniggers whenever the subject is men-
tioned. And what should be a natural
matter between father and son, mother
and daughter, is sidestepped or at best
confused with evasions and hesitations.
A walk around by the news-stands on
Sydney streets will show the adult atti-
tude towards sex. Aside from the ranks
of highly-colored “comics,” practically
every popular magazine, whether cater-
ing for men or women, or young or old,
or everybody, bears a highly-colored
front-cover of a female flaunting legs or
bosom or both. Every motion-picture
advertisement follows the same line.
And nothing has a chance against a
suburban “sex triangle” on newspaper
posters. Plainly, a community which en-
courages this sort of thing—and if it
wasn’t encouraged it wouldn’t be sold —
ought to be educating itself before traduc-
ing anyone who tries to tell children
the truth.


POLITICAL POINTS
Since a change of job is often said to
be a good thing it might be better for
all concerned if the Australian representa-
tives at the international wheat conference
and the Olympic Games Control Com-
mittee swapped duties. Then perhaps
we’d get a satisfactory wheat agreement
and the 1956 Games as well.
• •
In the last few weeks the “Labor” boys
at Canberra have not shown the same
eagerness for statistics on unemploy-
ment as was evident in their ranks before
Christmas, when their principal object
every question-tine was to seek informa-
tion on this subject. Could it be that
“Labor” is only interested in unemploy-
ment when it is rising? A party with the
true interests of the worker at heart
should surely be anxious to find out to
what extent unemployment is falling.
That unemployment is falling is
attested by the latest figures quoted by
Minister for Labor Holt, which show
that the number of persons on unemploy-
ment-relief dropped by 6872 during
February and a further 2775 in the first
week in March. Holt is quite justified in
saying that the general picture at present
“reflects buoyancy
throughout the economy
and a confident attitude on
the part of industry.”
Evatt and Calwell don’t
concur, so that is at least
one point on which the
Leader and the Deputy-
leader of the Opposition
agree.
• •
Tito is reported to have
said at the close of his
London visit, “Ah, the
English people. They are
so hot, so warm.”
Apparently the English
grow on one, because a
few years ago Tito would
have definitely thought
them “not so hot.”
• «
J. S. Rosevear, “Labor”
M.H.R. for Dailey, who
died on Saturday night,
was the ninth Federal
member to die in the 22
months since the last elec-
tion. The five M.H.R.s
who predeceased him in-
cluded two ex-Prime
Ministers —W. M- Hughes
and J. B. Chifley; the
other three were E. G.
Eggins (C.P., Lyne), R. S. Ryan (Liberal,
Flinders) and H. P. Lazzanm (“Labor,”
Werriwa); and there were three Sena-
tors : R. H. Nash (“Labor,” W.A.), E. S.
Piesse (C.P., W.A.) and J. H. Chamber-
lain (Liberal, Tas.).
“Sol” Rosevear entered the Federal
Parliament in 1931 as a Lang Laborite,
defeating E, G. Theodore, whose cam-
paign-director he had been before the
Lang split. As one of the Beasley group
he stayed outside the official Labor
fold until 1936 and left it again in 1940,
returning for good in the following year.
He was elected Speaker in 1943 and held
the post until the defeat of the Chifley
Government in 1949. During his Speaker-
ship he several times stepped down from
the chair to take part in debate, and on
one occasion made a bitter attack on
the elder judges of the High Court, alleg-
ing that they were incompetent because
of their age. Sixty-one at the finish,
he'd been suffering from heart trouble
for some time.
• e
N. S. Wales Executive Council has con-
firmed the appointment of F. J. Finnan
as chairman of the Hunter District Water
Supply Board, This means he has got
the job. It doesn’t mean that the appoint-
ment is any more ethical than when it
was first announced.
• o
In the debate on television several
“Labor” speakers mentioned that in
Britain, under a Conservative Govern-
ment, T.V. is a Government monopoly.
That may not be so much longer. Last
October the Television Advisory Com-
mittee was asked to report on the question
of competitive T.V. services, and in
January the assistant-P.M.G. told the
Commons that 34 inquiries had been
received about licences for commercial
T.V. and 24 applications for time for
sponsored programmes.
• •
Premier Cahill: “I am at a loss to
understand published figures of tram
and bus losses.” On the other hand, if
N. S. Wales were fortunate enough to
find itself at a loss for Mr. Cahill there
mightn’t be any tram and bus losses for
Mr. Cahill to be at a loss to understand.
• •
Aircraft-carrier Sydney, which is taking
the Services contingent to England for
the Coronation, left Sydney on Saturday
and Melbourne yesterday. Most of the
Navy, Army and Air Force parties, are
already on board ; the rest will join at
Fremantle next weekend. Sydney is due
at Portsmouth on May 5. After the
Coronation it will return by way of
Panama, showing the flag in naval bases
at Halifax (Canada), Annapolis (U.S.A.)
and Pearl Harbor (Hawaii).
• •
For the three months to January 31,
described as the first quarter in which
the airlines rationalisation plan was in
operation, T.A.A. and A.N.A. virtually
MODERN SOCIALIST ART
“It’s the spitting image of him, Bert.”
broke even on airmail business. Actual
Inures were:
T.A.A. .. 528,1271 b. £58,053
A.N.A. .. 524,2731 b. £57,201
• •
Pakistan is reported to be nibbling at
Queensland coal again, this time, accord-
ig to the “Courier-Mail,” it is the
Collinsville field that is under considera-
on, though Callide and Blair Athol are
ot out of the race. An export trade in
oal would be a healthy thing for Queens-
md and Australia, but the thought never
eems to enter the heads of the Miners’
rederation in N. S. Wales. Among those
entry the first thought when the possi-
>ility of a production surplus looms up
s that working hours should be reduced
‘to keep the men employed.” The best
vay to ensure that men are kept employed
s to find markets for what they produce.
• •
Tipsters, kite-fliers and plain guessers
rave been at work nominating their
choices for the post of Ambassador to
Dublin. One of them plumped for Sir
William Webb, of the High Court. Next
lay the former Queensland Chief Justice
flatly denied having any interest in a
diplomatic job.
• •
A bigger noise than any two flying-
boats could make at full revs , surged up
in Eric Harrison’s electorate when
Woollahra Council joined in the outcry
to have Rose Bay flying-base moved to
Botany Bay. Dr. Evatt, whose electorate
includes Botany, added to the din.
Minister Anthony tepidly announced
something about plans being made,
whereupon the noise subsided for the
time being.
0 •
An editorial witness told the television
commission that by delaying television
Australia would be making a hopeless
fight against progress. Well, the States
seem to be doing it pretty well in the
transport field.
0 0
It doesn’t matter who suffers so long
as the bankrupt N.S.W. railways are
protected. Latest edict has wiped cement-
trucks off the roads, and the result is an
increase of 14s. 6d. a ton in cement because
rail-carriage of cement is slower and
costlier than road-carriage. Yet Premier
Cahill professes a breaking heart over
the shortage of housing.
Farmers, like cement-makers, know
what railways tyranny means. Some rail-
freight comparisons over a distance of
200 miles: superphosphates; N.S.W. 295.
a ton, Victoria 255. 7d., South Australia
255.; wheat: N.S.W. 595., Vic. 41s. 10d.,
SA. 375. 3d.; potatoes: N.S.W. 625.,
Vic 41s. 10d., S.A. 60s. 6d.; oats and
maize: N.S.W. 745., Vic. 41s. 10d., S.A.
37s 3d.; hay, straw and chaff: N.S.W.
845., Vic. 41s. 10d., S.A. 60s. 6d.; greasy
wool: N.S.W. 335. a bale, Vic. 18s. 4d.,
S.A. 225.; cattle and sheep: N.S.W. £24
13s. a truck, Vic. £l6 7s. lid. S.A. £l9
17s. Over 400 miles, cattle and sheep:
N.S.W. £37 3s. a truck, Vic. £27 16s. 5d.;
wheat: N.S.W. £3 18s. a ton, Vic. £2
14s. 9d.; wool: N.S.W. £2 6s, a bale,
Vic. £1 3s. lOd.
0 0
Stalin was Secretary-General of the
Communist party when Lenin died in
1922. He ruled Russia from that post
until 1941, when he “accepted” the
Premiership. Malenkpv has passed the
Secretary-Generalship over to N. Krush-
chev, the up-and-coming Ukrainian who
was given a leading role at the party
Congress last October. Moscow being
Moscow, this could mean anything or
nothing.
• *
According to “S. M. Heralds
“Granny” column a Casey Range and a
Casey Strait in Antarctica were named
some years ago after our Minister for
External Affairs, but the strait “was later
found to be a peninsula, and was erased
from the map.” Still, if Dick ever goes
down that way he’ll still be able to feel
at home on the Range.
• •
Rose Bay or Botany Bay? That is
the question,
• •
“G. Elburg”: I agree that it is unlikely
that the Woomera Communist vote was a
genuine Red expression (B. 18/3/’53).
Under our electoral law an elector is com-
pelled to mark his ballot-paper or be
subject to a fine for failing to vote. It is
true that he may obey the letter of the law
by deliberately making his vote informal,
but the majority of people vote formally,
although they may despise all the candi-
dates offering for election. I have always
held that the elector should be empowered
to cast a negative vote. It may be that
he has utter contempt for all candidates,
yet he is compelled legally to register
varying degrees of approval. He should
be permitted to put “No” against the
names of all candidates. Should the
scrutiny disclose that the negative votes
outnumber the positive the returning-
officer would declare the contest null and
void and order a fresh election, none of
the rejected persons being eligible to
nominate. This is a logical corollary of
compulsory voting.
• «
Now that the A.L.P. has disavowed all
association with the Communist party,
isn’t it time it instructed its branches to
cut out the “Dear Comrade” v form of
address in letters to members?
• •
In the matter of the Attlee Steel Steal
of 1949, restitution is on the way to being
made. The bill to denationalise the steel
industry has passed through the Com-
mons and is awaiting discussion by the
Lords. Both it and the bill to hand back
road-transport to private ownership are
expected to become law some time in
May, though the actual changeover may
be a long job.
• •
At an Australian Natives’ Association
conference in Victoria it was proposed
that parents should be allowed to vote
on behalf of their children until the off-
spring reached 21. The motion was
defeated. Now if the gentleman had
suggested that children be allowed to
vote on behalf of their parents he might
have had something.
• •
From New York comes news of a
“time-compressor,” a machine designed
to cut down the time required for the
broadcasting of a song or piece of
music, or even speeches. It sounds as
though it is just the thing for the A.B.C.
to apply to its broadcasts of Parlia-
ment. There’s a catch, though. The
machine is reputed to be able to cut the
time by up to 50 per cent, “and still leave
the subject-matter understandable.” The
trouble is that some of our Senate
stars aren’t understandable in the first
place.
• •
By one vote the N.S.W. Graziers’
Association decided not to urge the lift-
ing of the ban on the export of Merino
sheep. It’s a good thing for the Corrie-
dale men.
• •
Senator J. P. Tate missed selection for
the N. S. Wales Liberal team for the
Senate election on May 9, his place being
taken by K. McC. Anderson, former
member for Ryde in the State Assembly.
The other Liberal nominee is Senator
McMullin. These two will be placed
first and second on the joint Government
ticket; the Country-party candidate —yet
to be chosen—will be number-three.
“Labor” is putting up its three retiring
Senators—Amour, Arnold and Grant.
Like Senator Tate, Donal’ Grant missed
out in the preselection ballot, but his
lucky stars took care of that.
• •
“Labor” propagandists are spreading
a report in country districts that the
Snowy River project will not be finished
in 30 years, because the Federal Govern-
ment is in a financial tangle. This is
stupid, particularly in view of the pro-
gress made in construction and the fact
that details have been completed for
various works estimated to cost
£lOO 000,000 for completion by 1957 ;
but, then, “Labor” always assumes that
country voters are stupid.
• •
“Chevroford”: Councillor T. Kerr, of
the Melbourne City Council, who re-
cently toured the world’s great cities to
study traffic problems, has brought back
an original suggestion for solving Mel-
bourne’s parking troubles. It’s quite
simple—leave your car at home and catch
a tram, or better still, since the trams are
equally congested, stay home yourself
He hasn’t revealed which enlightened
foreign city uses the method. In the
meantime the American Municipal Asso-
ciation reports that parking-meters in
American towns and cities are doing a
£34-million-a-year business.
• •
Sidelight on the wool-versus-synthetics
controversy from the Australian Wool
Board: “Nylon is definitely out as a
material for uniforms for Canadian
soldiers serving in Korea. The principal
reason is that the noisy swish of the uni-
forms does not, in the opinion o
Canadian experts, give the soldiers a
chance to approach the enemy silently.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
‘ It’s hard to believe that in
six months in a town of only 8000 in-
habitants, 25 people could lose their
bicycles. That’s the number our police-
station has on hand, and the cops are
unable to trace the owners of any of
them, not even those that are almost
brand-new. A few months ago I thought
I’d lost mine. I was able to give the
sergeant what I imagined was a very
good description of my “steed,” black
with red trimmings. When the bloke
next door returned it, it was blue with
black trimmings. Maybe that’s what’s
wrong with the 25 missing owners—they
just can’t remember what their bikes look
like.
♦> ❖ *
“Zake”; The hoardings which, together
with the rank weed-growths up the banks
of cuttings and the pocket-handkerchief
backyards, make my daily rail-journey
into Sydney one of peculiar aesthetic
beauty have impressed on me one vital
Straight into the boot, please, barman
fact: that if the female of the species is
to enjoy immediate relief from a splitting
headache, the pleasure of a portable radio
or the even better one of soaking-up
someone’s wassail, or would ensure
acquiring the perfect 34-24-34 figure
simply by swallowing somebody’s pills,
then she must be clad in a bra-top swim-
suit. This is well enough for the traveller
on summer days. But the recent renewal
of some of these hoardings has caused
me misgivings. Within a few months I
shall be sitting shivering in my railway-
carriage, and the natural miseries to
which winter subjects me will be inten-
sified by seeing these flappers grinning at
me, airily scorning the icy blasts blowing
around their unprotected chasses.
❖ * *
“Findy”: Shakspeare, like the King
James translation of the Bible, has be-
come so much a part of the language
that most of us use phrases from his
works every day without even realising
their source. On the other hand he some-
times gets credit for things he did not
write. In the Federal Parliament recently
the member for the Capital Territory
said “In the words of the Bard, the
honorable member for Henty has ‘stolen
my thunder.’ ” That phrase is generally
ascribed to the dramatist and critic John
Dennis, a contemporary of Addison and
Pope. The story goes that Dennis in-
vented a sound-effect for stage thunder
for use in his play “Appius.” The play
was not a success and, when a similar
sound-effect was used in a performance
of “Macbeth,” Dennis complained “They
won’t let my play run and yet they steal
my thunder.”
❖ * *
“An Chaidh”: The Ballarat Ladies’
Pipe Band in this year’s Labor Day pro-
cession wore grey skirts as part of their
get-up—a decided improvement on the
kilt, which is designed for men and never
worn by women. The traditional
costume for Scots women is a pleated
tartan skirt, the ( tartan cut on the vee.
The Lyon King of Arms has given his
official sanction for this skirt to be used
as the proper dress for dancing and
piping; it was so used at the recent
Braemar Games.
❖ ❖ *
“H.W.M.”: Mutilating notices on
doors and shop-windows is a disease from
which Australians are acute sufferers.
Most of the amendments are pretty crude,
but occasionally one does strike a Streak
of humor. A Melbourne barrister recently
stuck up a notice reading “Back Soon,”
under which one of his fellow-practi-
tioners wrote “Chinese Laundryman.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Teeperce”: In mid-1941, near Hill 69
in Palestine, a Digger was approached
by a worthy Oriental gentleman who an-
nounced himself in the market for Bren
guns. A rendezvous at which gun and
cash to the tune of about £9O would
change hands was fixed for 4 p.m. next
day in an adjacent orange grove. At the
appointed hour and place the Digger,
haying meanwhile conferred with his
adjutant on the deal, turned up with the
Bren. Since before dawn a patrol of
Palestine police had been sweating it out
in concealment. After handing over the
gun and receiving the cash the Digger, as
instructed, closed with the Wog, but, at
this stage, the plans went awry. The
Wog wriggled free, tripped the Digger
and fled. The covering patrol opened
fire from their cover; so did 20-odd
Arabs with whom the arms-buyer had
thoughtfully provided himself. There
were no casualties, except our unit’s
reputation. We had lost the gun and
had to hand over the £9O to the Palestine
police.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“A.M.N.”; M. H. Ellis, in his
sketch “The Wild Colonial Boy” (B.
25/2/’53), identifies the bushranger
Jack Donohue as the inspiration of the
song. Donohue roamed the N. S. Wales
bush in the 1820’s, meeting his death by
a soldier’s bullet in 1830. The late Jack
Bradshaw, self-styled “last of the Bush-
rangers” and who came in personal con-
tact with quite a number of them, held
that the Wild Colonial Boy, Jim Doolan,
began his depredations in 1861, one of
his most notorious acts being the sticking-
up of the Beechworth mail-coach and
the robbing of Judge McEvoy. These
“I never bother arguing; I just tell the bird what to say."
two outlaws operated in widely different
areas and at different periods, which
suggests that the song-title was tagged
to the memory of various young
desperadoes whose lawless deeds were
outstanding enough to inspire admira-
tion in song, the words of the jingle being
altered to accommodate the name and
birthplace of the departed hero. All had,
however, one thing in common—a sticky
end, and none more so than the afore-
mentioned Doolan, of whom it is said:
He fired at Trooper Kelly and brought him
to the ground,
And in return from Davis received a mortal
wound;
All shattered through the jaws he lay, firing
at Fitzroy,
And that’s the way they captured hiin—
the Wild Colonial Boy.
“J.J.A.”: I won’t quarrel with M. H.
Ellis on this side of the equator about
the Wild Colonial Boy, but there was
a Wild Colonial Boy named Dan Duggan
born at Castlemaine in Eire who “immi-
grated” to Australia and who turned
bushranger. The subject was threshed
out in the Irish papers about three years
ago. An old woman is still living who
remembers him, though the house in
which he was born has been demolished.
People in neighboring villages told me that
the Wild Colonial Boy was born in
Castlemaine, where he is quite a
legendary figure. Apparently the two
have been confused, for even the rhythm
and structure of the ballads are different.
❖ <♦ $
“Bo”: When it was two years old and
its editor was writing his stuff from a
debtor’s prison-cell The Bulletin let go
a pictorial broadside at officialdom over
the tardy construction of Iron Cove
Bridge, which was to span Sydney’s
Parramatta River between Rozelle and
Drummoyne. Four sketches depicted the
bridge-“progress” at various future
decades, each having the centre-span
unfinished ; in the final one the bridge
was disintegrating through decay. Now,
after 71 years, that cartoon could have
equal point applied to the new Iron Cove
Bridge going up alongside the old and
now-inadequate one. The concrete piers
were finished in the long-ago. For years
no visible activity could be noticed by
motorists who bumped over the back-
blocks surface of the old bridge as they
crawled behind the peripatetic dog-boxes
Sydney flatters with the name of trams.
Then—wonder of wonders! —a few
months ago some bureaucrat was seized
with the daring idea of going ahead again
with the project, and a steel span duly
appeared at each end. This burst of
revolutionary thinking was apparently
too much, for the place again resembles
a ghost-town. Perhaps this is because of
natural caution to find out if the two
spans now in place will stand up to the
attacks of termites, lepidoptera, boll-
weevils and other bridge-destroyers. It
might be that the bridge will be com-
pleted before The Bulletin celebrates its
centenary; but you wouldn’t find too
many Sydneyites who’d snap up a bet
on it.
❖ *t* ♦♦♦
“Villefair”: Judging by my evening
paper, the goddess who arranges the
winning numbers in the N.S.W. State
Lottery strongly favors ticket-holders
with pre-war notions on the value of a
pound—or a thousand of ’em. Most
women who “shared the winning ticket
with five workmates” tell the reporter
that they intend to buy a car and a house,
have a trip to England, and put the rest
in the bank for their old age ; or spend
the thou, in similar modest ventures. A
recent winner delightedly passed on the
information: “A fortune-teller told me
all of my troubles would be over within
three weeks.” The win, of course, had
come off within the stipulated time. I
hope the seer proves correct, but all of
one’s troubles covers a lot of ground. It
is indisputable that troubles must be con-
siderably harder to endure without than
they would be with two thousand crisp
fiddlies; still, I can’t help thinking that
many a lottery-winner knows bitter dis-
appointment. Imagine fulfilling a life’s
ambition—only to find that you haven’t
got the price of one modern, medium-
sized fibro cottage!
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Mullum”; City “joyriders” will have
to smarten up, or they will lose their claim
to headlines. In a little country town
near Casino (N.S.W.) a car was stolen.
It was not just driven away from the
kerb. The thief broke into the garage
behind the general-store, drove the car
round to the front, broke the lock on
the bowser and filled the tank with petrol
before driving off. If that had happened
in Sydney it would have made a double-
column spread on the front page.
❖ *> *
“Strict Veg.”; Many drugs are now
free. Why not free beer? There is no
evidence that beer causes more harm
than drugs. Beer-drinkers often live to a
great age. -Drug-takers don’t. If beer
were free that would lift the repression
on it; there would be less drinking be-
cause lots of people, especially women,
drink as a protest against the authority
that says they shouldn’t. But free drugs
mean more drug-takers; dosing oneself
up is socially respectable, drinking isn’t.
Society is sympathetic to the sick person,
but unsympathetic to the drunkard. If
a man has indigestion or lumbago every-
body is sorry for him although his in-
digestion may be psychological in origin,
but society condemns a man who, through
psychological urges, is found in the gutter
oiled-up.
THE FIRM HAND
“ ‘I am at a loss to understand published
figures of bus and tram losses if they are
correct,’ said N. S. Wales Premier, Mr. Cahill.
‘Transport officers were told definitely the
amount of loss allowed for in the Budget this
financial year.’ ”
“Bad form !” said Cahill, “Bad form
bad form —
It really causes me concern
To see so miserable a worm
As money turn.
“Tm sure they heard me when I said
‘Subtract no more from me for trac-
tion V
What’s gone to the department’s head?
Some vulgar fraction ?
“Pledged though we are to socialisation.
My party is a strict abominator
Of simultaneous equation
And common denominator.
“Trams will run, and heads will roll:
A phrase like ‘Two and two are four ’
Was not spoken of the soul —
Or won’t be any more.
“I shqll not cease from mortal strife.
Nor will my sword sleep in my hand
Until arithmetic and life
Go hand-in-hand.
‘We need not fear a bankrupt State;
We have no cause to work like nigures;
We only need to legislate.
And change the figures.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
CROOK
There was a crooked man who owned a
crooked horse
Which ran a crooked race around a
crooked course.
It had a crooked trainer, crooked
stablehoy and jockey
As crooked as the crooked stick they use
for playing hockey.
Meanwhile, the crooked bookies ranged
along a crooked rail,
Bet crooked odds to thousands, "wised”
the crooked nag would fail.
But when the crooked stewards no
official action took,
You should have heard the extra-crooked
punters going crook !
.N-S.W.
P. O. M. C.


"P.T”: Teachers sometimes get their
own back on complaining parents. One
of the fraternity, writing a progress
report on a pupil of a Westralian school,
said, under the heading of general re-
marks : “Attention, fleeting; manners,
could be improved ; disposition, petulant
and unreasonable. Should make a good
parent.”
❖ ❖ *
“Norther”; A dignified gentleman
named W. C. ffoukes-Jones, a retired
British Army colonel, passed through
Cairns in the course of an Empire tour.
Fittingly attired in a solar topee, tweed
sports-coat and plus-fours, he was so
shocked by the sight of North Queens-
landers that he told a “N.Q. Register
reporter that he considered them down-
right indecent,” adding, “If these people
as much as I know about the lethal
properties of tropical sunlight they would
soon abandon this incredible custom of
undress Apart from the health aspect,
there is the much more far-reaching one
of dignity. I fail to see that a man wear-
ing only shorts and singlet can comport
himself as a civilised man. I am
astonished that no legal action has been
taken to prevent extremes such as bare-
footedness.” Then, apparently in a state
of high dudgeon, and obviously convinced
that North Queenslanders had no right
“Touching bottom again! When re you going to learn to swim?
to call themselves British, he departed by
car for the south. Perhaps it was JU st as
❖ *>
“Icinit”: Our sar’-major was a husky
bloke of virile habit. Winter or summer,
sun, rain or frost, he’d issue from his hut
sharp at reveille, arrayed only in a towel,
and prance barefoot the 100yds. to the
showers, yelling curses on all sluggards.
Under the shower he invariably shouted
Rabelaisian catch-phrases and snatches of
song at full blast. Then, his towel being
now wet, he would sprint back to his hut,
naked as Adam and shrieking like a
banshee. He was on leave when our
first two Sigs A.W.A.S. reported for duty,
and he lobbed back into a sleeping camp
off the 2 a.m. train, unaware of the girls’
arrival and of the fact that the track
from their hut to their showers crossed
his own. Gaily he went into his morning
routine, and was on the final naked spn
when the meeting took place The gir
stopped in their tracks, the C. • •
checked momentarily, then fled headlong
for cover. It is probably true that he
avoided the Sigs-room for a fortnight,
but certainly false that he was blushing
at his first appearance there.
+> *X* ***
“Melbn”: Lured out of their cool
haunts in suburban gardens by the his
March century for 20 years, a billion
crickets invaded Melbourne the oth
evening. Cars skidded, women screamed,
thinking they were beetles, children ran
and babies woke-up and cried for their
mothers. Some invaded the stage at the
Princess and interrupted the seduction
scene between Scarpia and this
is carrying realism a bit too far, mur-
mured the lady in the next seat to me.
Fortunately the insects were silent. Ihe
males only sing at the opening of the
summer season, the females never.
* ❖ *
A H Chisholm: C. J. Dennis and
Toolangi (B. 11/3/’53)? .Den became a
resident of Toolangi m 190
remained there (with slight breaks) until
his death in 1938. As for the spot or
spots where the “Bloke” verses were
written, I have shown m The Making of
a Sentimental Bloke that all of the early
“songs” were written at Toolangi an
sent to The Bulletin from there ; an
the Red Page has since noted (8/8/ oi)
that the first of the sequence was pub-
lished on the Abo. page on _Se^tember
30 1909 It was not until late in Lyio
that R. H. Cioll introduced Demis to
T. G. Roberts, and it was not until Iy 14
that Den joined the Roberts circle of
writers and artists at South Sassafra
(now Kallista) and began to accept
Roberts’s genial hospitality coupled with
occupancy of a cable-tram converted to
a “bachelor-apartment.” There some of
the later “Bloke” verses. were written.
“The Kid ” for example, is a reconstruc-
tion of a description given by Garry
Roberts of his feelings when his first
son was born; and in the tale entitled
“Beef Tea” the original sinner was me
poet himself and the offended woman the
gracious Mrs. Roberts. It could be sa d
that the “Bloke” was born and went to
school at Toolangi and developed into
manhood in a tram-car at Kallista. inci-
dentally, South Australia, and in par-
ticular the village of Auburn and the
township of Laura, have prior claims on
Dennis, and on March 29 Amburn will
unveil a couple of memorials hard by
the pub in which the poet was born.
♦♦♦
“Three Balls”: “Snobber’s” distress at
being hailed by his pawnbroker (B.
18/3/’53) recalls those English novels
that delighted my youth, in which the
hero was invariably soundly scrubbed,
down from Oxford and, not infrequently,
a lord. Much as I admired them, 1
confess to some bewilderment at the high
standards of decorum these young gentle-
men exhibited in the most trying circum-
stances. A guardsman, for instance, tact-
lessly greeted in a public place by some
lovely actress or chorus-girl with whom
he had recently spent an entertaining
evening, didn’t hesitate to snub the poor
girl. He felt a bit of a cad, of course;
but he went right ahead. In my simple
fashion I have always felt such behavior
to be not only haughty but unwise.
The parallel is a little distant, since I feel
sure “Snobber” moves in an environment
in which an acquaintance, even a nodding
one, with a chorus-girl is something to
be urgently confided to the boys. If
“Snobber” has lost his typewriter I have
no doubt he richly deserves it. In fact,
if he is the particular seedy Gentile I
, 1 . . , A not
suspect him of being he had better not
come into my shop again.
“He always finishes his paintings in the studio
“Don John”: What goes on in the
bread-making line in Sydney? I recently
read that a juryman claimed that the
finest bread he had ever tasted was that
supplied at Darlinghurst Court; it was
made by prisoners in a metropolitan jail.
Is it that the capable bakers are guests
of her Majesty, or are master bakers
talking through their hats when they
claim that good bread cannot be baked,
from the flour nowadays supplied to
them? Our baker owns his run, but
buys in bulk from a local bakery. My
wife, noticing a little different taste in the
bread, asked if any additional ingredients
were being used. His reply: “I wouldn t
know, Missus. I get my own bread from
so-and-so” —another baker in the same
district.
♦♦♦ *1*
“Ceg”: I’m one of the 2000 or so
Diggers with happy memories of Cobham
Hall (B. 18/3/’53). Lord Damley and
his family—he had married a girl from
Beechworth (Vic.)— occupied the south
wing; the rest of the building was the
hospital. Many will remember the
tennis played during the long twilight of
the daylight-saving days, on the lawns
in front of the Hall. A cricket pitch
was prepared in the park—complete with
tent pavilion and all —and matches were
played against teams from Chatham
barracks. One ward was in the dining-
hall, another in the long picture-gallery
upstairs. A smaller ward was known as
Lizzie’s Room, because of the legend that
Queen Elizabeth the First had slept in it.
She visited the Hall twice—in 1559 and
1573 There was a magnificent music-
room, known as the Gilt Hall, which the
Prince Regent regarded as the finest room
in England, and in which entertainments
were held. Theatricals from London, used
to come down, and I remember seeing
Crock, the famous clown, perform there.
In the extensive gardens surrounding the
Hall was the Swiss chalet Charles Sickens
used as a writing-room. It was moved
from Gads Hill Place (which is near by)
on the death of the novelist.
“E & OE”; It is doubtful whether
E. m£at a poison (B .
4/3/’53). Most vegetarians are so for
reasons of health, religion, or from senti-
true o^Shaw,
. annarently became a vegetarian
because he thought the keeping and care
__._i c „ was te of time. It was also
ofa waste to hi l( .
som g a chance for
■!»« H is complete indifference
to animals and also to all country thmgs.
even his own garden, explains why he
knew nothing of the interdependence
between animal life and vegetation.
George Henderson, successful farmer in
Oxfordshire, and author of two excellent
books on the land, lays it down as an
axiom that: “The underlying principles
of successful farming are work, muck
and thought.” Shaw might have approved
of the first, for he was himself a great
worker, but for the rest a follower of
Karl Marx had no time for “rural
idiocy.” That their road could lead to
erosion, with its alternate droughts and
floods and finally desert conditions, prob-
ably never occurred either to Marx or
Shaw. They were both townsmen.
* ❖ ❖
“F.S.”: Art judgments aren’t the only
ones of which we should be doubtful.
Literary judgments are just as tricky. A
friend told me he couldn’t read Dickens
—thought him a clown. When I men-
tioned great European writers who had
regarded “Boz” as their master he
started to read him, and found him en-
thralling. He was puzzled at his early
distaste for such a wonderful author until
he remembered that when he was a boy
and asked for a second serve of pudding
his father used to say jokingly, “Oliver
Twist asked for more,” and he would
feel intensely humiliated. Ever after the
name of Dickens produced in him an
unpleasant feeling, and no doubt he pro-
jected this feeling on to the authors
worlds.
* ❖ ❖
“Bar Din”: Two neighbors, a medico
and a racing-man, had an unfortunate
misunderstanding the other day. The
racing-bloke, who owns horses an
backs them, pesters the doc. in the
aftermath of his periodical sprees,
urgently seeking relief. The doc has a
busy practice, and rightly thinks the
demands of suffering hardly
include such cases as his friend’s. Re-
cently he decided he had done enough
for him. The doorbell rang, and he was
informed Mr. Big-Roll wanted to see him.
“Tell him I’m out,” the doc. said, settling
down with the paper. At the hospital he
was told Mr. Big-Roll had rung twice;
when he went to his rooms he heard the
same story. Mr. Big-Roll rang repeatedly,
and each time was told the doctor was
out, operating, in conference and, finally,
out of the State. On Saturday the doc.
had a bad day at the races, and sourly
observed Mr. Big-Roll’s horse win at very
long odds. In the ring he bumped into
Mr. Big-Roll. “I’ve been trying to get
in touch with you all the week,” Mr.
8.-R. greeted him, supervising the pack-
ing of his winnings in a cabin-trunk or
two. “Wanted to tell you to back that
horse of mine. Nice finish —eh?”
MUCH MORE LIKELY
“Of all inventions for which patents we
taken out last year more than half were t
labor-saving devices for the housewite.
Man may show inhumanity
To man; it always has been so
Burns sang of it long, long ago.
And likely it will always be,
For paradoxically the trait is human,
In sons of Adam deep ingrained.
But this is clear: that, by and large,
With justice or with truth the charge
Cannot be possibly sustained
That he applies this attitude to woman.
If he thought less of wench and wife
He'd bend all his inventive brains
On new beer-barrels, stronger cranes,
Or on such adjuncts to his life
As must make easier all his working,
playing.
He’d let his missus get along
With cleaning things her grandma used
(And more than often well abused)
For is he not the master strong
And she his slave ? Ahem —what am
I saying?
But such is man’s uxoriousness
The choicest products of his dome
Are labor-savers in the home.
Their ingenuity I stress, >
Their numbers now so great that they re
confusing ’em.
Yet here a thought intrudes: Are these
Bright children of his brain all meant
His spouse’s tiredness to prevent,
To save her muscles, back and knees?
Or was it that he. knew that he’d be
using ’em ?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
r. G Campbell, “Australum
Journal”: Tell Chay Jay (8.251 I )
that t H wSwidow
when he said that W.W. was me wmuw
rfa detective, and that her stones were
culled from his memoirs. W.W„ t who
also wrote under thenameof Wm£
Smf e frU™glandm S AuSrin 1855
and, after a turn on the goldfields, be-
came one of the first women freelance-
writers of these parts. She wrote for
other publications as well as the Aus-
tralian Journal,” but most of her enor-
mous output appeared in this magazine,
and she supported herself entirely by
writing, though apparently only just.
“Sinclair” was the name of a detective
who appeared in many of her stories.
He pre-dated Sherlock Holmes by
many years. Neither Mr. J. K, Moir
nor myself has been able to find out
much about this unusual lady. If any
Bulletin reader has any information to
offer, we would be glad to hear from
him.


PERSONAL ITEMS
New C.O. of the 3rd Battalion, Royal
Australian Regiment in Korea, Lieut.-
Colonel A. L. MacDonald is a Duntroon
man who graduated in December, 1939,
and served with the 2/15 Battalion in
the M.E. and New Guinea. After the
war he became secretary of the planning
staffs of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in Aus-
tralia. A nicely-balanced career of
regimental and staff duties, with com-
mand in the field as the latest step,
“Macnell”: Found his last berth, John
McDonald, lieutenant, R.A.N. Before
he got his second stripe he was one of
the service’s most senior and most expert
gunners. Of medium build, straight as
a spar, he was trained in Whale Island ;
he’d been in the Navy since he was a
boy and had been a gunner for close on
20 years. He commissioned the destroyer
Anzac —long gone to her reward—and
had been in just about every ship above
a destroyer in the R.A.N. Most of his
War II service was in cruiser Australia:
at Dakar, in the north Atlantic (from
which she fished a Sunderland crew in a
roaring gale), in dock in England with an
unexploded land-mine for company, and
in the troubled Pacific. He was in charge
of the transmitting-station, that
omniscient mechanical brain which,
bounded by sightless bulkheads deep in
the ship, gave the guns their bearing and
elevation ; and in this territory McDonald
was king After an advisory job at the
Admiralty, he was put ashore by a
strained heart a couple of years back, to
build his first home and settle down with
his wife and daughter after a lifetime of
service. His professional skill became a
legend in his lifetime and a common
saying, when a particularly knotty
problem came up, was “ask Father John.”
If Father John didn’t know it ’was up
to Einstein.
“C.Q.”: Somewhat smothered by the
news of Stalin’s death, Prokofieffs, at
the same time. He wrote an opera at
the age of nine, graduated from Petrograd
Conservatory in 1914, and left Russia in
1918. He was allowed back 15 years
later on the condition that his composi-
tions reflected the ideology of Marx,
whatever that means. Only a very astute
Soviet aesthete could detect any differ-
ence in the music he wrote after his re-
turn. His ballets, operas, symphonies
and concertos make regular appearances
in concert programmes.
Andre Marchal, the French organist
now giving a concert tour for the A.8.C.,
is a remarkable example of how a man by
courage, self-discipline and determination
can rise to world renown despite one of
the most grievous of human afflictions.
Blind since birth, he had before he was 30
committed to his prodigious memory all
the major organ works in the concert
repertory, and has since been constantly
adding modern pieces. Braille, of course,
ANDRE MARCHAL
alone made this possible; he knew the
set-up of every big organ in Australia even
before he landed here, for their sped-
fications in Braille were sent to him be-
forehand to study. Hailing from Paris,
'If g ?? St uV h f “• of
frSf* I .?’ M- Marcbal follows in the
tradition of Buxtehude and Bach, for
ne is one ot the few great improvisers
o our day.
l’ ltz : Robert Kaleski, who did a recent
Man on the Land” article on the blue-speckle
cattle-dog, has been writing for The Bulletin
on dogs and other bush-subjects since the days
when J. F. Archibald was editor. A. G. Stephens
often turned to Bob for information on owtback
matters, and on seeing him in the street would
boom out “Ah, my bush-consultant!” Although
born in suburban Sydney, Bob has been a dinkum
bushman for most of his 75 years, and still
runs a property on the salt-water reaches of
George’s River, near Liverpool (N.S.W.), where,
until not so long ago, he had a sawmill and
kept a horse-team and a bullock-team. After
leaving Sydney High School Bob bolted to the
bush, and did a spell jackerooing on Gambarra
station, near Grenfell (N.S.W.), and at droving
and bush-carpentry. He had a poultry-farm at
Guildford, near Sydney, went in for pigs, ran
cattle in the Burragorang Valley and took up a
selection in the Dorrigo scrub. He has always
had a questing mind. At the age of 12, in a
spirit of inquiry, he set fire to a church; he
forgets now what it was he was trying to find
out. While still a young fellow he was asso-
ciated with Professor Henry Lord in field-
experiments, and carried out forestry research
work for Dalrymple Hay, for whom he wrote
A Record of Forestry in New South Wales.
A lifelong interest in the breeding and working
of sheep- and cattle-dogs led to his being
commissioned by George Robertson, of Angus
and Robertson, to write on them for the
original Australian Encyclopcedia. Earlier that
grand friend of Australian writers A. C.
Rowlandson, of the N.S.W. Bookstall Co., per-
suaded him to write Australian Barkers and
Btters (reprinted by The Bulletin’s Endeavour
Press in 1933), which has been acclaimed as a
classic of its kind and established Kaleski as
the authority on the Australian working-dog.
<
Bulletin staff man Charles
Shaw, whose Heaven Knows, Mr.
Allison is one of the very few books
by an Australian to be bought by Holly-
wood, has been nominated for member-
ship of the International Marie Twain
Society for his “contributions to litera-
ture.” The society lists kings, princes,
presidents and famous literary names and,
if Shaw accepts, it can include “Mat’s
Mate”—a character of an astonishing
übiquity. Present writer has met
mysterious gentlemen in places as un-
alike as Adelong (N.S.W.) and Brisbane
who, over a few beers, have confessed
“do a bit of writing—l’m ‘Mat’s Mate’
in The Bulletin.” But Shaw, a writer
of remarkable versatility, holds the
authentic title. His later work has a
universal appeal, whereas “Outback
Occupations,” that brilliantly funny and
realistic series which ran for a long time
in The Bulletin and was put into book-
form by Dymocks in 1943, was, in the
words of a Melbourne critic, “as Austra-
lian as the gum-tree.” His latest,
You're Wrong, Delaney, written under
the pen-name Bant Singer, has just been
published in America, where one critic
wrote “Snappy a mystery story as we
have read in many moons.” The U.S.
edition is published by Crown, New
York, the British Empire one by Collins,
whose chairman, W. A. L. Collins, wrote
to tell Shaw how “tremendously keen”
he is on the story and asking for more.
“R.W.” on some Rugby Union per-
sonalities :
Three of the four A.B.C. men mentioned
by M. F. Dixon (B. 25/2/’53) are old Rugger
players. They are C. J. A. Moses, A. N.
Finlay and T. A. Duckmanton.
“Huck” Finlay was the best known
as a player. A Sydney University
and Randwick forward, he played
for N.S.W. in the ’2o’s, when that
honor was equivalent to playing
for Australia. A member of the
famed N-S.W. Waratahs who
toured the British Isles and France
in 1927-28, he played for Australia
in 1929 in the only rubber in
which Australia has beaten the All
Blacks in all three matches. In
1930 he played for Australia again,
in the only Test against Great
Britain (the visitors) of that tour.
In the R.A.A.F. in World War
n, he was a p.-0.-w. in Malaya.
C. J. A. Moses, who came to
Australia from England after the
1914-18 war, and played for Vic-
toria, is president of Eastern Suburbs
(Sydney) club. Duckmanton learnt his
Rugby at Newington (Sydney), and stroked
the college eight in the 1938 Head of the
River. Joining the A.B.C. as a cadet-
announcer, he left that job for “the dura-
tion” in the R.A.A.F. Back in Civvy-
street he was the A.B.C.’s Sydney Rugby
Union commentator, and sporting-super-
visor for N.S.W. from 1946 until his
appointment as assistant-manager at Bris-
bane in 1951. During his Sydney term he
was known and liked by all players with
whom he came into contact, and by all
club-officials, of whom the writer is one.
In addition to E. Hillary and E. Lowe,
the two New Zealanders who join the
British expedition for an attempt on
Everest this year, an all-New Zealand
mountaineering party leaves for Nepal
to do some knocking-about the Hima-
layas 100 miles west of the Big Climb
M embe rs a re Graham McGallum
(physicist), Philip Gardner (market-
gardener), Athol Roberts (manufacturer)
and Maurice Bishop (dairyfarmer).
They’ll have four months in the Duri-
gandaki Valley, on botanical work for
the British Museum, as well as having a
crack at the 26,000 ft. hill in their area—
and, no doubt, keeping an eye lifting for
the Abominable Snowman, resident in
those parts.
Off to London, as manager of the Bank
of New South Wales’s Berkeley-square
branch, N. J. I. Champion, who began
„as a banker back in 1914 at Miil-
thorpe (N.S.W.). He was in London
during the war, as sub-manager, promoted
to assistant-manager in 1947 and pro-
moted again, to assistant-manager of the
Sydney branch of the ’Wales, shortly
after his return to Australia.
Firmin McKinnon, who died at 72 in
Brisbane, was the last of the city’s old
“Courier” editors. He began journalism
on the Yass (N.S.W.) “Courier,” the
presses of which had printed Sir Henry
Parkes’s “Empire.” In 1904-05 Mc-
Kinnon was in the Far East assisting
war correspondent Bennett Burleigh, and
he sent the cable describing the annihila-
tion of Rozhestvenski’s Russian fleet by
Togo at Tsushima. Back in Australia,
he edited the Lismore (N.S.W.) paper
before joining the Brisbane “Telegraph”
in 1907. In 1911 he took over the editor-
ship of the “Darling Downs Gazette” at
Toowoomba (Q.), and three years later
joined the “Courier” as a reporter. He
became the leading political correspon-
dent of the day and was a confidant of
T. J, Ryan. His brilliant commentaries
from the Parliamentary Press-gallery
were for many years an outstanding
feature of the old “Courier.” First secre-
tary of the A.J.A. in Queensland, Mc-
Kinnon often covered alone the entire
Parliamentary sitting, turning in, in his
meticulous copperplafe script, not only
extensive reports of the debates, but a
daily column of gallery-notes as well.
Frequently he would cover an “all-
nighter,” and after the House rose at
FIRMIN McKINNON, as Counihan
saw him in 1936
daylight start his “rounds” of Govern-
ment offices. He was writing leaders
when John Macgregor left the editorial
chair of the “Courier” to go
to the “Sydney Morning Herald,”
and he stepped up to associate-editor
when R. Sanderson Taylor took Mac-
gregor’s place. On Taylor’s death, in 1931,
he became editor, and he continued in
that post for some months after the merger
of the “Courier” with the “Daily Mail”
in 1933. Thereafter, until 1946, he con-
tinued to be associated with the “Courier-
Mail,” first as leaderwriter and later as
literary and art critic. He had in his
Highgate Hill home a fine collection of
pictures, books of Australian poetry and
manuscripts.
Off to Java, Murray Giles Little, M.A.,
former Westralian Director of Education
and member of the University senate.
His job will be organising primary-school
education for the Indonesian Govern-
ment.
Perth surveyor John Alister Ewing has
patented an instrument designed to speed-
up the taking of contour surveys. A
previous invention, a sun compass, which
aided field-gunners in ranging on tanks
and other moving targets, was takei\ up
by the British Army in World War I,
and has since been used on Arctic and
Antarctic flights. The inventor has
family connections with the political life
of three States. He is a son of the late
John Ewing, M.L.C., a former Westralian
Cabinet Minister; a nephew of Thomas
Ewing, an early Australian Minister for
Defence; and a nephew of Judge Norman
Ewing, a former member of Tasmanian
Ministries. J.A.E. was with a pioneer
battalion in the First A.T.F., and with
the Australian Survey Corps in War 11.
“Ex-Gunner”: I was reading a story of mine
—pardon me for mentioning it —when I looked
up and saw the original, John McTigue, smiling
at me: much as Hawley has caught him. I
had believed him dead. I asked him if he
had read that week’s Bulletin. “No.” I
sat him down, thrust my copy before him, and
walked up and down, smoking. Not that there
was anything defamatory in the story. It was
a portrait of courage and, however faulty the
delineation, there can be no insult in the con-
cept. Still, it must be a bit of a shock to
stumble upon oneself in print. John read, and
SALESMAN
said goodbye, a little coldly, I thought. Late
he invited me to dinner. So, over a perioc
I had the odd experience of re-discovering
character.
Fairly early in life he decided to be a sales
man, an aim he has stuck to ever since. H
sold all sorts of things all over Australia anc
New Zealand, and before enlisting in the 6tl
Division in 1939 he sold whisky (he was Blacl
and White’s manager in Queensland). In the
Army he sold us more indefinable things. Going
back a bit, he played Rugby Union for Rand
wick and was a foundation member of the
North Cronulla surf club. He has the S.L.S.A
Meritorious Award for his part in the Bronte
rescue of ’3l.
More mature than most of us, he was a cele
brated raconteur, and when I first knew him
as sergeant in charge of our funny little two
pounder in Egypt, a disciplinarian. My opinion
of him was profoundly modified by his con
duct in action and as a p.-0.-w. in Greece
Yugoslavia and Hungary.
I lost track of him near Vienna, until he
turned up again, so disconcertingly, in Sydney
He escaped from Marburg, in Austria, got as
far as Llujbyana (Laiback) on the Italian
border, and ended up at an N.C.O. Stalag at
Hohenfels, in Bavaria. There he studied for
and won, a bundle of certificates for German
economics and whatnot. He escaped a seconc
time when the rot set in, and, always a gooc
talker, talked his way past some German units
until he met the U.S. 808 Tank Destroyer
battalion. The Americans adopted him, and
with them he took part in the capture of
Regensberg, Passau and Linz. It was a very
satisfying experience. The Americans also
gave him a Purple Heart. As C.O.’s interpreter
he saw the meeting between Patton and Zhukov
at Linz in May, 1945.
Back in civilian life, the idea of selling on
a seller’s market did not appeal to him, so
he switched to life assurance. “Trying to talk
to an economist about a science of salesman-
ship is very like trying to convince him of a
science of teacup-reading,” he complains. But
he has firm ideas on the functions of salesman-
ship, seeing the salesman as an integral part of
a free society. Now metropolitan superintendent
for City Mutual Life, he is a past-president of
an R.S.L. branch and a councillor of the
Millions Club.
He is one of those men who, denied high
military honors, in peace and war remain
eminently solid citizens. v
“C.R.C.”: Just for the record. The
late poet Geoff Cumine (B. 25/2/’53)
was an original Anzac who left in 1914
as a sapper in the Third Field Company
(A.E.). Another Bulletin poet in the
same unit was Oscar Walters, There
was a grim irony about Cumine losing an
arm in a cycling accident. Before coming
to Tasmania from his native Sussex in
1913 he held a Southern Counties record
and several cycling championships.
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 48, William Haydyn Robertson,
founder and lecturer-in-charge of the depart-
ment of architecture at the Perth Technical
College. As an architect attached to the Com-
monwealth Department of the Interior he had
a hand in the designing and erecting of several
Commonwealth buildings in Melbourne and
Perth. Besides inaugurating the Westralian
branch of the Planning Institute he was a
Fellow of the Royal Australian Institute of
Architects and Associate of the Royal Institute
of British Architects.
At 76, in Otaki (N.Z.), Major-General
Robert Young, C. 8., C.M.G., D. 5.0., Legion
d’Honneur. Born in Sunderland (Eng.), he
came to N.Z. as a boy and was educated at
Nelson College. A dentist before 1914, he
served with the N.Z.E.F. on Gallipoli and in
France, and, in 1940, came from retirement
to command the Home Guard.
In Auckland (N.Z.) at 81, John Caughley.
Assistant Director of Education in 1916 and
Director 1921-27, his most notable achievement
was the establishment of the junior-high-school
system. He spent a Couple of years in Fiji as
Director of Education after his retirement, and
had a seat in the Legislative Council there,


TOMATOES


ABORIGINALITIES
“J.E.8.”: My wife had trained our
native laundry-boy never to discard
household-linen, personal or otherwise,
before submitting same for inspection,
but Solomon Island houseboys are not
noted for tact. Coincidentally with the
visit to us of the wife’s aunt, a voluminous
lady, came that of the District Commis-
sioner to dinner. In the middle of it in
rushed our perturbed laundry-boy,
extending for everyone’s inspection a
pair of X.O.S. “ricebag” bloomers. He
addressed my wife in regretful tones:
“Trousers b’long big missus [auntie] no
bloody good. One feller leg ’e No. 1 ;
other feller leg ’e allersame No. 1.
Middle b’long legs ’e no stop, ’E go
walkabout. More better me put ’urn
legs long rag-clean-’um bokis.”
♦ * ♦ *
“Bogaduck”: Cats taking to water of
their own volition (B. 11/3/’53)? I
once spent a fortnight’s holiday cruising
with a professional fisherman. On board
the cutter he had the biggest and most
aggressive tomcat I ever saw; it lived
on fish, tinned-milk and fresh meat.
Whenever we sailed back to port to land
a cargo of fish, Tom couldn’t wait; he
knew we’d be messing around cleaning
up the boat, putting the catch into baskets
and so on for a couple of hours at
least. The moment we picked up our
moorings he’d dive over the side and
swim to the jetty. There he’d fly up the
“ ‘Diverted to Bourke— ‘diverted to Broken Hill— ‘to Oodnadatta-
’ struth, three of these Were flying-boats !”
steps and race towards the town. If
any dogs disputed his right-of-way he’d
slip over the edge of the jetty and con-
tinue his run along the stringers below,
But he scorned all natatory exercise after
his night out. At dawn he’d stroll
languidly to the end of the jetty, sit on
a mooring-post and raise a hideous cater-
wauling until one of us turned out,
rowed across and fetched him home in
state, sitting in the stern of the dinghy,
I forecasted a shark would take him one
day, but he lived to a ripe old age.
* * * ♦
“Old-timer”: Outside the pub there
was an old pepperina, and around its
base ran a wooden seat. On the seat sat
Organ and Crunch, morosely watching
the bar-door. In the door
appeared Snooker, a pot of beer
in his hand. Snooker caught the
eyes of Organ and Crunch,
raised the pot derisively,
emptied it and withdrew.
“That blankard,” Organ mut-
tered, “is gettin’ even with us
because we wouldn’t shout for
him when we hummed that
dollar yesterday.” Crunch
ground his teeth. Both watched
the bar-door. Snooker appeared
again and repeated the earlier
performance. Crunch half-rose,
but Organ held him back.
“Tryin’ t’ goad us, he is,” he
said. “Thinks we’ll do our
nuts an’ rush in there an’ start
somethin’ an’ get grabbed be the
police.” Crunch subsided.
Twice more Snooker appeared
and drank off a pot before
them. Then he went too far.
He came to the door with a pot
and contemptuously threw its
contents into the air towards
the brooding pair. They rose
from that seat as one man and
charged into the bar. After the
riot all three were haled before
the local Beak and handed a
£2 fine or four days. They took
out the four days. When dis-
charged the last that hamlet heard
of them was all three heading
west with their swags! up and
Snooker saying “Y* silly blankards; if
y’ hadn’t been so wild y’d ha’ seen it was
only water I threw out o’ that pot.”
* * * .*
“Swelpme”: I have a boyhood memory
of catching “blue-swimmer” crabs on a
tuppenny fishing-line —without the use of
a scoop-net. The crustacean always
hung to the hook until he was jerked into
the boat. In later years I often hooked
crabs of the same type, pulled them in
almost to the boat, only to have them
release their grip and sink out of sight.
Never since those youthful days have I
succeeded in catching a blue-swimmer
without sneaking a landing-net under him.
That was why I stared at seeing three
boys with five of the big blue fellows
between them. “Did you land ’em with
a scoop-net?” I asked, “No, mister,”
came the chorus, “We haven’t got a
scoop-net.” Hoping to rediscover the
secret I must have known in my child-
hood, I asked: “But didn’t they let i go
the hook when you started to drag them
into the boat?” “They couldn’t,” grinned
the biggest kid. “We tie a silk stocking
on the end of our lines and put the bait
up high. The crabs can’t unhook their
claws out of the old stocking.” I still
can’t remember what special methods we
used as kids—-if any—but I’m sure silk
stockings were not involved.
# #
“Yo”—or “yowe”—for ewe
isn’t Australian (B, 25/2/’53). It is old
English, being a corruption of the Anglo-
Saxon eowu. It was also used by the
Lowland Scots, as witness Rabbie Burns’s
song “Co’ the Yowes to the Knowes”
(Call the Sheep to the Hills). The pioneers
brought the term with them, and in some
districts it has persisted down to the
present day. I once listened to a talk by
“Don’t smile, please!”
a university professor on the subject of
“The Dreadful Australian Accent,” in
which, inter alia, he instanced the use of
yowe for ewe. When question-time
arrived I challenged him on the latter.
As he was unconvinced, I later laid a bet
with him. He coughed up On the
authority of Caledonia’s bard.
* * * *
“Three-wheeler”: Along with the
bookie and the empty barrels, Rupert is
a permanent feature of the landscape at
our local oasis. Rupert, who came from
the Old Dart about 30 years ago, gets
his free noggin by a song-an’-dance act,
and for a newcomer will put on his star
turn: stand the stranger’s two-bob-bit in
the crack between boards in the bar-
floor, throw a somersault, gripping the
florin in his fangs as he goes, then put
it in his pocket. This will continue as
long as the sucker supplies silver. The
panto was in full swing t’other Saturday
when an up-country youth stuck his bib
in. “S’easy,” quoth he. “Do it with
me eyes shut!” The gauntlet was im-
mediately flung down, in the shape of a
ten-bob note. “Pick that up in your
teeth and you can have it,” offered
Rupert magnificently. Challenger saun-
tered over, transferred his upper and
lower dentures to his strong right hand,
and, clamping them over the half-fiddly,
had it in his pocket in a trice. Empire
relations were strained until restored by
the colonial lad changing the spoil in
time-honored fashion. That’s when my
active participation commenced.
* * * *
“Wandana”: A curious island in the
Torres Strait group is Boigu, close to
the New Guinea coast towards the Dutch
border, below the Baxter River. On the
chart it figures as Talbot Island. I used
to call there regularly and had many
friends among the natives. At low tide
one paddles through mud and slush and
the torch glints at night on the eyes of
waiting crocodiles. The island plays an
important part in mythology and beliefs
respecting the dead, and to the islanders,
as well as the neighboring people of New
Guinea, it is regarded as the “isle of the
departed spirits.” All the spirits of the
dead touch there on their journey to
Adiri, the land of spirits. They drink
from the waterhole on the island, and
swim in it in order to get rid of the flies
which have swarmed after them all the
way. In Boigu the spirits appear in their
real shape as men, and can be seen and
identified by the people. Every spirit
ties an object to one of the trees grow-
ing at the waterhole. It was common
for the people of Mawata, in New
Guinea, to send word to Boigu after a
death, asking what mark had been up in
the tree, this being the place where death
mysteries can be unveiled; on seeing a
dugong-bone, for instance, tied to a
branch, they will soon discover the
culprit who has secretly killed their rela-
tive, and take revenge. Legend credits
the origin of the population at Boigu to
a boy who, after the death of his parents,
married a number of girls called
“Buhere-Buhere” mythical unmarried
females who Ijve in the bush ; but an-
other story, much more complicated, con-
cerns a number of mythical beings, in-
eluding a beautiful girl named Poniponi
or Pani Pan. An extraordinary feature
of present-day Boigu people is their
strange articulation. Many of them are
light-skinned. Like Torres Strait
islanders generally, they are excellent
seamen.
* * ♦ ♦
“Emjai”: As a sport, pulling buggies
to pieces • to manhandle them (B.
18/2/’53) received the imprimatur of the
great. As lads, Ned Kelly and his
brothers were thorns in the side of school-
master Tobin, who, as a sideline to the
dominie business, used to rear a few
white pigs. The morning after one clash
in school, Tobin found six black pigs in
his sty and six of a Greta farmer’s Berks
had changed to Yorks overnight. Tobin
needed no more than one guess and
applied correction. A few nights later
his gig disappeared from the shed, with
no fresh wheel-tracks or other indications
of its fate. Investigations were fruitless
—until the next drought uncovered it,
in bits, in the big hole in the creek some
miles away, where it had been carried
piecemeal. Tobin didn’t act on his guess
that time.
* * * #
“Wandana”: A. thing that struck me
in Victoria’s Mallee district was the
abbreviating or otherwise altering of
township names to fit them into col-
loquial jargon. Manangatang, Chillin-
gofiah and Chinkapook were never any-
thing but “The Tang,” “The Gollah” or
“Chinkie.” Wycheproof was invariably
“Witchie,” Sea Lake and Swan Hill
shrunk to “The Lake” or “The Hill,”
and, of course, Berriwillock was always
“Berri.” Close to “Berri” is Boigbeat,
which all old hands recognised as “Dog-
bite,” and at the top end of Lake Tyrrell
there’s a place called Daytrap, which, it
seems, was originally Detroit. In a few
instances map-names have been changed
by the authorities for certain reasons —
such, for instance, as Kaneira, on the Sea
Lake line ; there used to be so mady mix-
ups with the similarly-sounding Kaniya,
on the South Aust. border, that Kaneira
was altered to its present name of Culgoa.
* * * *
“J.R.”: “Yair,” said Paddymelon Joe,
pointing his pipe-stem at the low hills,
“badly eroded, as y’ say. It was smoke
catused that.” “But I never thought
smoke could cause erosion,” replied the
city visitor. “This smoke did then,” re-
turned Joe. “Y’ see, there was a big
bushfire on the ridges a few years back;
swept down on the town on all sides.
We fought it for three days solid; things
was lookin’ pretty bad when up comes
a storm, a regular ding-boomer. But,
spare me days, the smoke from that fire
was so thick the rain couldn’t get through.
We could hear it hammerin’ away on
the other side like hail on a galvanised
roof without so much as a drop falling.
After the fire burnt itself out and halt
the town with it, down comes this ruddy
cloudburst, and Washes out all them hills
down to the clayl ”
BROKEN BRIDLES
The old rogue is restless, the young horse is
fretful
And there as they stand with the row at the
rail
One is dimly aware they are never forgetful
Of nights in the moonlight and dawns on
the trail.
The green colt steps backward and leans on
his leather,
And snap goes the head-band and rip go
the reins;
The old horse does likewise, and then, both
together,
Our favorite hacks are away to the plains.
And we, can we blame them? How oft have
we fretted
While facing the duties of day after day,
And backed from the dullness and, fain to
forget it,
Have quit the old harness and galloped away.
Thus, many a time, just to follow our idols
In love or in sport, or whatever it be,
We have tugged on our tethers and broken our
bridles
And gone like our horses unfettered and free.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


“Muskeen”: Last Christmas Day I
was astonished to receive a visit from an
old mate, whom I had seen only two
days before abed in the township’s
hospital. His story was that on Christ-
mas Eve, having-been permitted to go to
the bathroom under his own steam, he
had wandered in error into the matron’s
sitting-room ; there in a prominent posi-
tion he saw a beautiful crystal water-set
together with a card expressing the com-
pliments of the local undertaker. My
cobber finished his convalescence in the
pub.
* * * *
“Chink”: The woman who gave each
of her unsuspecting offspring the name of
a bird (B. 4/3/’53) had nothing on the
West Queensland centre of Longreach.
There most of the streets bear bird-
names. The forefathers of the town began
the practice (the idea being to preserve
the names of birds that might become
extinct), and latter-day councillors, if
they haven’t recently run short of ornitho-
logical titles, are still carrying on the tra-
dition. Another town of the Queensland
interior, Quilpie, has gone one better.
Quilpie itself is the abo. name for curlew,
and some of the streets carry native
names of birds, including such engaging
ones as Dukamurra, Boonkai and
“I always thought it Was a fake!"
Chulungra, the meaning of which has
unfortunately been lost with their
originators.
* * * *
“Loulalo”: Like the early highways
around Wood’s Point and Walhalla (B.
4/3/’53), those east Gippsland roads over
which the first settlers brought their
cattle from the N.S.W. Monaro into the
Buchan district of Victoria were no more
than narrow shelves scratched round the
mountainsides. In many places they
were too narrow for the lumbering bul-
lock-drays to travel on a safe keel, the
practice then being to remove the inside
wheels and substitute a spare hub, minus
spokes and rim, on the axle. With the
wagon thus kept more-or-less horizontal
many slow and weary miles were
traversed by the intrepid trail-breakers of
last century.
“Wingella”: Re shark-attacks on
colored folk (B. 18/2/’53). Some years
ago at Darwin an aboriginal lad amused
himself by diving off the Darwin jetty
and with a keen knife ripping-up cruising
sharks. His fellow-abos warned him
that trouble would follow; it was against
tribal law to kill except for food; and
this wanton destruction would bring its
own punishment. But Joe just went on
nonchalantly slicing open the bellies of
passing grey-nurses and tigers. Then
one day, more than 100 miles distant,
Joe’s mother, a lubra noted for her charm
and good looks, was playing with about
12 other lubras on the beach, all knee-
deep in the incoming tide. Joe’s mother
was in the centre of them when into the
group flashed a shark, disembowelled her
with one slash of its jaws, and was off
to sea before the others realised what had
happened. The blacks all declared that
this was a punishment for Joe’s
wanton destruction at Darwin; and that
the sharks there had sent a message to
the big sharks outside, who had sent
their avenger in.
* * * *
“Formic”: I’ve seen the nests of ant-
lions within touch of high-tide mark on
the eastern coast of Queensland and on
a clay-pan flat out on the Barkly Table-
lands. In areas where there won’t be
a drop of water for months, they don’t
appear to be incommoded. Prob-
ably the microscopic quantity of ant-blood
keeps ’em going, though they have to
take it with a dose of formic-acid.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The Gippsland board-
ing-house-keeper seemed to think we’d
scale him. Every pay-day we’d no sooner
get in from our road-job than he’d be
on to us for his dough. It was a bit
embarrassing to have him come at you
in the bathroom or shove his face in
the bedroom door, but we let it go. Until
the day when, getting in late, we’d just
sat down at the table with the other six
boarders and he bobbed into the dining-
room and said, “You blokes get paid to-
day ; well, how about the board?” I
thought Mat would go him, but he held
himself back somehow and we forked out
*I found out what that squeak Was.”
the cash. Next pay-day Mat saw to it
that we were late again. As we sat down
in came our host. Before he could get a
word out Mat said cheerfully, “Oh, got
a message for you. Tom Andrews, the
butcher, wants to know when y’re going
t’ settle his account.” The b.h.-keeper’s
face went purple, and he rushed out.
“But how did y’ know he was inter the
butcher?” I asked. Mat looked at me.
“You get a bloke that don’t trust us
workers t’ pay,” he said, “nine times out
o’ ten it’s because he ain’t a good pay
himself.”
MORNING SCENE
Is there anything lovelier
than a horse cropping grass—
the down-bent head, the hollowed back,
the fluid lines drawn on the morning’s pallor?
Black trees upon the blunt brow of the hill
achieve a stark severity of rhythm
with lines that march precisely up and down
like robots. But their dark power
is static. Life leaps not from them,
but from the curving lines
of a horse cropping,
a chestnut horse cropping short bright grass
tangled with flowers yellow as the sunlight . . •
its down-bent head, its arching neck and
hollowed back
the fluid lines of beauty
gathering the units of the day together
into the focused fulfilment of design.
N.S.W.
UNA AULD.
OLD JIMBOUR CHARACTERS
By DAVID ROWBOTHAM
MAY I camp a while on the ground
so admirably cleared by Mr. G. H.
Routley in his “Old Jimbour and
the Darling Downs” contributions
to The Bulletin? They created con-
siderable interest here on the Downs,
where so many descendants of people
who were associated with old Jimbour
live.
While Mr, Routley dealt compre-
hensively with the old station and its
early settlers, there was one important
name omitted—that of Henry Ensor
(senior), who managed Jimbour for a
number of years for Sir Joshua Peter
Bell, and supervised, from start to finish,
the construction of Jimbour House, the
famous mansion (described in detail by
Mr Routley) which Sir Joshua had built
in i 874-77.
The mansion in 1925 was renovated by
W. A. Russell (father of Charles Russell,
ex-Country-party M.P.), a western
squatter in whose possession it then was.
At huge expense he restored the old
home to its former glory, and it is still
in excellent preservation. Its reopening
was celebrated by a garden fete and ball,
with a gathering of more than 1000
people.
One of those present on the gala occa-
sion was Henry Ensor, then a white-
bearded old-timer of 84. He is par-
ticularly remembered on the Downs as
the “father” of the town of Bell, which
commemorates the name of Joshua
(“Joey”) T. Bell, M.L.A., son of Sir
Joshua. In accord with Joey’s wish, the
streets of, Bell were named after early
identities of Jimbour. The town’s main
street was called Dennis-street, after
Henry Dennis, whom Mr. Routley men-
tioned as the first manager of Jimbour.
Ensor-street and Challacombe-street were
named after other managers, and Broad-
bent-street, Wallace-street and Cassidy-
street honor three of the old property’s
overseers. F. Cassidy was the father of
Rhodes Scholar Reginald Cassidy,
A descendant of Henry Ensor is
Downs-born J. G. Ensor. Henry was
his grandfather and reared him from
infancy, so that from early childhood he
heard stories of Jimbour. Speaking of
Mr. Routley’s account, he told me how
it incorporated some of the stories he
had heard as a lad.
‘.‘Concerning Ashton’s Circus, when it
played at Jimbour,” he said, “Sir Joshua
instructed my grandfather to arrange
with Mr. Ashton for the performance.
And I often heard the old chap tell how
the blacks were placed along one side of
the tent and the white settlers on the
opposite side. For weeks afterwards the
abos were throwing handsprings, stand-
ing on their heads, and trying to do all
the tricks they had seen at the perform-
ance. The clown, especially, made a
profound impression on them, and they
talked about him with awe for years
after.
“Mr. Routley,” he added, “will prob-
ably remember that two great aboriginal
sportsmen were produced by Jimbour.
First there was Charlie Samuells, the
foot-runner who became the champion
of the world, and then there was the
boxer Jerry Jerome, who won the middle-
weight championship of Australia in
1913. Jerry, who didn’t enter the ring
till he was 33, and then won 35 of his
58 professional fights, was born on Jim-
bour in 1874. Our family knew his
correct age even when he didn’t, because
my father was born there at the same
time. Jerry’s mother used to wash for
my grandmother, and the little fellows
played together on washdays.
“During my grandfather’s time on Jim-
bour a well was put down to 184 feet.
It was an extraordinary depth, and at
102 feet the bones of some prehistoric
animal were unearthed. There was a
jawbone as thick as a man’s thigh, with
teeth in proportion. It would probably
have been of interest to modern palaeon-
tology, but nobody thought of that then,
and the bones were lost.”
The Darling Downs has been a fairly
fruitful field for palaeontologists. Only
last September a fossilised jawbone was
found near Warwick. Scientists say it
belonged to the Nototherium, which in-
habited these parts 1,000,000 years ago.
“When they were sinking another
well,” went on Mr. Ensor, “a seam of
coal 28 feet thick was discovered. A
geologist made tests and showed it to
contain first-class gas-making qualities.”
This would no doubt be the seam of
coal which Mr. Routley said provided
gas for lighting Jimbour House when it
was built.
“Jimbour in the old days,” said Mr.
Ensor, “stretched right to the Bunya
Mountains. The highest peak of this
range is now called Mount Mowbullan.
The correct history of this name deserves
to be known. No trees grow on top of
the mountain —only grass. The blacks
called it Mowe-bullun, ‘mowe’ meaning,
in their language, head, and ‘bullun’
meaning paid —Bald Head.”
J. G. Ensor supplied information about
another notable landmark of old Jim-
bour —the Stone Wajl, lying approxi-
mately nine miles north of Jimbour. It
is a fence that was erected entirely of
stone boulders, as it was impossible to
sink post-holes there. Because their
hooves could not stand up to the con-
stant walking over the excessively hard
ground, the bullocks that were used in
its construction had to be shod.
Mr. Routley referred to the oat-grass
which grew so high it could be tied across
the pommel of the saddle. “I remember
it well,” said Mr. Ensor. “Its seeds were
somewhat similar to the seeds of culti-
vated oats, but smaller. It died out
about 35 years ago. Jimbour Plain was
also the home of the kangaroo rat, a
pretty little marsupial, now, 1 believe,
a zoological rarity.
“The Ipswich medico whose daughter
was married to Joshua Peter Bell was
Dr. Dorsey.”


Orden'ngsherry. Sweet
is your 'finest boy
II
• ■>
FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
v 5 ®
.i®
Mf
Man’s horizons have stretched and widened vastly
in a few short years. What will the next generation see
in change in the Pacific?
It is a thought that often comes to me, as I am
sure it does to every thinking Australian. I can see
this Southern Hemisphere—the Pacific Basin—the
centre of developments yet undreamed.
Towards the end of the 18 th century this
Australian continent was a vague and vast place to
the civilised world, unknown, practically untouched.
Do you realise that as late as the 1880’s ... a
mere 70 years ago ... a century after the founding of
Australia as a British settlement, the eastern half of
New Guinea was absolutely unclaimed?
The western half had been a colonial outpost of
the Dutch, through treaties with local rulers since the
days of the spice trade. But the eastern half of the
second largest island in the world was still unsought
by any Power.
That seems amazing now, when territory for the
production of food is mankind’s most urgent demand.
But it is true.
In 1883 Queensland had as Premier, a dour Scot,
Sir Thomas Mcllwraith, one of the most forthright
and brilliant men Australian politics had produced
Alarmed by reports of German intentions to extend
their colonial empire to the Pacific, he sent up the
Magistrate from Thursday Island to annex eastern
New Guinea.
The flag was hoisted, but the British Government
repudiated his action. And by 1888, when the mistake
was seen, Germany already had north-eastern New
Guinea and the archipelago above it, Papua meanwhile
had been proclaimed to Queensland, and later was
merged in Federal territory.
The rest we know, Germany’s loss of her stake
in New Guinea in World War I; its coming in
mandate to Australia j the fusion of administration
with Papua since World War 11.
So much for the turns of history. The point I
would make most strongly now is that we must
strengthen and develop New Guinea. It was our shield
in War. It is, and always will be, our outer defence.
Whatever New Guinea can produce —in food
crops, jute, cotton, copra, rubber, anything else—it is
vital to us that the sowing be speeded up . . .
For up there, as in every Australian State, 1
believe greater production is going to be our best
form of defence.
HD-8
Business. Rollery. etc.
Production and Taxes
Steel output is now greatly in
excess of anything .Australia has
previously known. If present
rates of production are main-
tained, output of ingot steel
should reach 1,900,000 tons for
1952-53, compared with
1.529.000 tons in 1951-52 and
1.178.000 tons in 1948-49, the last
year in which the Chifley Gov-
ernment was in office at Can-
berra. The present high rate of
steel-production is maiudy the
result of better supplies of coal
—also at record level —but
partly also to the starting of new
plant at Port Kembla. Pig-iron
output is also running at an
unprecedented level.
Cement output, though up
considerably on 1948-49, at
present is barely reaching de-
mand, and may prove an inhibit-
ing factor in any large-scale pub-
lic-works programmes. But new
plant coming into production
should help to overcome any
potential shortage. Because of
the setback in the building trades
the demand for bricks, cement
tiles, paint and timber has fallen
away slightly. But output of
terra-cotta tiles is still increasing,
and so is that of cement build-
ing-sheets and fibrous plaster.
Meat output is at a high level,
the wheat harvest has been good,
and so has the wool-clip. Prices
all round have been satisfactory.
Demand for many consumer-
goods has dropped. Production
of sweets, ice-cream and
domestic appliances such as
refrigerators, sweepers, etc., has
fallen off, after a burst of
astonishing spending in the
previous few years. Clothing
demand has also dropped. But
production of essentials, like
sugar, butter and cheese, goes on
at a high rate.
The economic background of
higher essential production is
one in which the Federal Gov-
ernment can speak with some
confidence about reductions in
taxation. Especially if the next
basic-wage movement is down-
ward or only slightly upwards
the time should be soon oppor-
tune for a greater degree of
activity in the capital-works
field. Australia is generally very
short of capital works ; but high
costs and shortages of materials
and manpower were the obstruc-
tions to a full-steam-ahead policy
previously. Even now, so far as
public works are concerned,
there needs to be a decent degree
of co-operation from trade-
unions and State Governments in
endeavoring to keep costs down
and to speed output up.
Commerce and Agriculture
Minister McEwen last week
spoke with assurance of taxation
reductions before long: the
Government’s policy, he said,
was to increase the productive
wealth, thereby increasing
standards of living and maintain-
ing high standards by a reduc-
tion of taxation. At the same
time Minister for Labor Holt
referred to a steep reduction in
unemployment last month,
though unemployment in post-
war years has never been a
serious item.
Provided the Menzies Govern-
ment’s policy of reducing costs
through increasing production is
allowed to continue, Australian
industry before long should
develop health and strength it
has not exhibited for 12 years or
more.
The New Loan
The Seventeenth Security,
Loan, which opened on March
24, is in two classes of stock —
a 3 p.c. issue, offered at £99 10s.,
maturing on December 15, 1955,
and a 4\ p.c. issue, offered at
par, maturing September 15,
1962.
The loan involves the redemp-
tion or conversion of £47
million of 2 p.c. securities matur-
ing on April 15, and the balance
(£3O million) is intended to
finance State public works. The
interest-rate on the long-term
securities is the same as for the
last issue, which is now at a
slight premium in the market.
Oil at Roma (Q.)
“Petro”; Although everything
was stated to be ready for test-
ing the “oil-sands” encountered
in Associated Australian Oil-
fields’ No. 2 bore at the end of
January (B. 18/2/’53), the first
announcement of the results of
the gun-perforator tests were not
revealed to the Press until
February 26. The delay was
attributed to a defect in the firing
mechanism of this standard item
in well-drilling equipment. The
unit, by the way, had been flown
over from the U.S.A., where it
is normally considered to be
foolproof.
After the firing mechanism had
been adjusted or repaired, it was
stated that the casing and sur-
rounding cement had been
successfully perforated over an
18in. section, with the production
of a little “slightly petroliferous”
gas, followed by salt-water.
Bailing is said to have produced
“increased oil-smears,” but the
engineers on site were so disap-
pointed by these (returns that
they decided to reseal the
casing and try their luck at other
horizons.
It was stated, redundantly,
that the nature of the oil-salt-
water contact gave rise to
“complex problems”—a fact
which has been obvious, for the
last 20 years at least, to oil
geologists who have studied the
Roma data. It has also been
announced that “new swab-caps
would be brought from New
Guinea befofe elaborate tests
were undertaken.”
Nothing of importance has
since been reported, but the
following message, dated March
13, was received by the Sydney
Stock Exchange:
No. 2 well, March 13, analysis of
oil-sands now completed and shows
good oil-content porosity and per-
meability.
Plan now in operation to cement-
off salt-water flow which has impeded
oil-production tests. On completion
the oil-sands will be gun-perforated
in the sections which analysis shows
best oil-contents.
It would be a little more reas-
suring to the A.A.O. share-
holders —who are, not unnatur-
ally, becoming anxious—had
some quantitative data been
given with reference to the
“good oil-content porosity and
permeability” of the oil-sands.
As it stands, the statement is
meaningless and valueless as a
measure of any prospects of
commercial oil-production.
Email Debentures
Email, Ltd. (formerly Elec-
tricity Meter and Allied Indus-
tries, Ltd.), is seeking £500,000
of 5 p.c. debenture-money,
currency five years. The issue
opened on March 19, and it will
remain open until April 27,
unless closed earlier by the direc-
tors.
The co. has usually carried on
with a considerable outside debt,
partly the result of credit allowed
to its own debtors. At December
31, 1951, the Email group
showed sundry creditors at
£1,968,869 (up £821,298), and
“taxation, service and other pro-
visions” at £3,672,168 (up
£1,243,298); in addition, there
were debentures and accrued
interest of £354,625, the princi-
pal being repayable around
1960. The co. was owed
£3,753,796 (including unspecified
investments), chiefly by the
trade. Capital of the Email
group was £1,766,451, supported
by £2,478,656 of various re-
serves (after deducting intang-
ibles, suspense accounts, etc.).
The co.’s financial position is
exceptionally strong. Its great
expansion in the past five years
has been largely financed by
ploughed-back profits and in-
ternal provisions, which show up
in the accounts in various guises.
Trade has been slacker in the
domestic-appliance field over the
past 18 months, but Email re-
sults to December 31 last are
expected by the sharemarket to
be satisfactory. It pays 12s. 6d.
for the ss. stock-units, at which
figure the yield is 5 p.c. on a
12| p.c. div. basis.
Short-term Investments
Many people will be interested
in the Industrial Acceptance
Corporation’s short-term deben-
tures. For 90-day loans, or at
90 days’ call, the co. will pay
3i P-c. p.a.; 180-day term or
180 days’ call, 3-j p.c.: 3f p.c.
for 270 days ; and 4 p.c, for 360
days. There are people seeking
a short-term investment for
whom these rates will be attrac-
tive. The normal rate |or a
five-year industrial debenture is
5 p.c., which is ss. per cent,
above the public-body rate.
General Motors Acceptance
Corporation is offering short-
term registered unsecured notes
with a similar rate of interest to
the I.A.C, offer.
Hastings Deering Finance and
Investment, Ltd., is offering 3
p.c, for money at call, 3| p.c.
for three months fixed, 4 p.c, for
six months, 4} p.c. for nine
months, and 4\ p.c, for 12
months.
European countries have had a
deadly dose of much the same
sort of “planning” and State
intervention that Australia is
going through now. Liberal-
minded economists from
countries which have been the
victims of State Socialism write
vehemently against State laws
attempting to supplant funda-
mental economic laws. They
write from bitter first-hand
experience.


df
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
&m> PERTH
Learn how YOU c an
BRUSH AWAY
GREY
HAIR
Send For FREE Book
Now you can restore the
natural color of your
hair simply, quickly and
effectively, no matter
what the cause of your
greyness.
Thousands of men and
women all over the globe
have benefited by this
amazing discovery which
brings back the color,
gives renewed gloss,
silky texture and a luxu-
riant appearance.
You can discover it, too,
by tearing this out and
writing today for your
copy of the FREE BOOK-
LET.
PETER BARRY PRODUCTS
Dept. MBI Box 3100
G.P.0., SYDNEY
4*
fonwou
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd**
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Svdnc
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
-r
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf hiqh-priced imported
machines at only a trac-
tion ol their cost. The
■'National” Rotary OupU
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
BuiU •nlit trly I* Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00, (Aust.)
From a banker’s diary
Tuesday. Mr. ■BBBESaBESHffI came in to
introduce his son, John (18),
who opened a cheque account
with an initial deposit of £lO
I , ■. • -
f
m'% v ; yS I |
Make an early start on the right road
i
This man has been our customer for some
time. He believes that the sooner young people
learn to handle their own money the better. So
when his son began to earn a regular income,
he brought him into the Bank to open his own
cheque account.
For parents who believe in giving their
children sound financial training, the ‘"Wales”
has published a folder —“A cheque account for
your son or daughter.” Ask for
a copy at any branch of
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NKW SOt.’TH WALER WITIf LIMITED LIAOIUTST)
A5304C
Why the
Lima Belt
is so successful!
■i
ilia
mm
mm
.X
\
1111
Make a. visit and try the Linia Belt
or send for the illustrated “Danger
Curve” booklet and order by post.
Your remittance will be refunded if
you are not entirely satisfied.
For every man ...
• A FINE BRACED FEELING
OF FITNESS
• A PERFECT SUPPORT WITH-
OUT RESTRICTION
• A MASSAGE WITH EVERY
MOVEMENT BY THE PAT-
ENTED LIMA TRICOT
Evolved by medical men and therefore
anatomically correct in design, the
Linia Belt is easily placed in position.
Fits every curve of the body. Arrows
indicate how the Linia Belt lifts and
holds the abdominal organs in their
correct position whilst producing a
definite reduction in the girth. Also
ideal for post-operation wear.
Sydney Agent:
WASHINGTON H. SOUL
PATTINSON & CO. LTD.
160 Pitt St., Sydney, and
Branches. Tel. BL 2684
LINIA BELTS
Manufactured by 7 of Paris Pty. Ltd.
84 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE. C.t. Tel.: FA 8357
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
N.Z. Forest Products
As New Zealand’s pioneer in
pine wealth, N.Z. Forest
Products, Ltd., builds up pro-
duction, with no State financial
support and little encouragement
from above, this mammoth
effort by private enterprise is
attracting more and more atten-
tion, both inside and outside the
timber industry. David Henry,
F.P.’s chairman and leading
spokesman for softwood cos. in
N.Z., says the main handicap
is lack of State backing in the
drive to build up turnover in
home and overseas markets.
Australia’s big purchases of
Baltic timber have been a blow
to N.Z., and Henry would like
to see more “family care” to
push the trade in timber and
pulp with users across the
Tasman. “N.Z.’s output could
be raised to £6O million or more
yearly if trans-Tasman trade
were placed on a strong basis,”
he says. He sees prospects in
Eastern countries, too.
Forest Products will soon be
handling 31,000 tons of timber
weekly, with a staff of 2500 men
using £7-million-worth of plant
and premises, but will still be
exploiting less than half its
176.000 acres of forests. It could
more than double (its figures,
without reaching capacity, so far
as raw materials go. Yet the
co.’s forests are only a quarter
of N.Z.’s total of exotics, mainly
owned by the State. A “vast
and valuable asset” is how Henry
has described it, with 600 million
trees growing at the rate of
10.000 tons, or a shipload of
timber, daily.
Architects, builders and those
who employ them will have to
plan for a revolution in N.Z.
timber-using industries if the
home market is to do its share
in absorbing the growing volume
of exotics, Gordon Wilson,
Government architect, says:
“More should be made of the
huge supply of exotic timbers
for the bulk of our timber uses.
Our native finest
for building in the world —are
running out, and must be con-
served. With skilful design and
treatment, a wide field for enter-
prise can be opened up for
exotics. We have no steel, no
stone and little brick, but we do
grow timber with extraordinary
ease.”
No Auckland Bridge
When there’s not enough
money to go round, the
commonsense course is to take
things in their right order, and
this should be the rule for all
capital works. Otherwise every-
thing on hand has to be
rationed for capital, men and
materials, and up go costs. This
was common experience in the
earlier post-war years, and could
be again if the lessons of those
years were forgotten. New
Zealand is still short of all three
essentials for development, and
will have to plan carefully for a
long time ahead to avoid getting
into the trouble which forced
Australia to halt or cut down
operations on Government and
semi-Government projects over
the past couple of years.
The scheme which has done
more than any other to bring
this home to Maorilanders has
been the Auckland harbor
bridge, planned to cost £Bl
million all told, £4l million of
it to be borrowed in London.
While Aucklanders and the
overseas tenderers (Dorman
Long and the Cleveland Bridge
and Engineering Co.) waited for
the word to start, the British
Treasury vetoed the loan, much
to the relief of those in Auck-
land who felt there were far
more urgent schemes, and to the
consternation of a strong
minority, most of fhem on the
North Shore, where the benefit
of the bridge would be most
directly felt.
The London ban has saved
Auckland to this extent from
overreaching itself in the next
few years, and has given top-
priority schemes, like drainage,
highways, railway electrification
and the Auckland underground,
which all along ranked well
ahead of the bridge, a much
better chance.
To level-headed folk the
bridge looks like a Keynesian
project to be kept handy, ready
to be launched if prosperity and
employment begin to slacken.
On an outlay of nearly £9 million
it might be possible to save a
million or two by picking «the
time and avoiding the cost-
inflation which would follow
from competing for scarce
capital, labor and resources, not
to mention the far larger total
saving on all capital projects
through keeping demand within
bounds.
Another aspect of Auckland’s
plan to span the harbor which
hasn’t been given the considera-
tion due to it is the smallness of
the hinterland to be served by a
bridge. There is no parallel to
Sydney, where the waterway
extends far inland. Auckland’s
upper harbor is a small stretch
of water, fairly easily flanked
by road, and today a first-class
motor-way is being built direct
from the city to the upper limits
to give future access to all but
a small part of the northern
peninsula without crossing the
harbor at all. The motor-way
and the bridge would be, to a
considerable extent, rival
thoroughfares, and it is plain
that neither Auckland nor N.Z.
can afford such a luxury at
present peak costs, whatever the
merits of the bridge may be
later in the century when the
population will be the best part
of, a million.
To show that Auckland would
be biting off more than it could
chew, it should be enough to say
that a b'idge would bring an
immediate addition of 400
passenger buses to Auckland’s
transport fleet, and with this load
on top of the growing number
of heavy trolley-buses now
replacing the trams most of the
streets would be pulverised.
Costs and Wages
If there is one lesson New 7
Zealanders still have to learn
more than another it is that
costs are not just something to
be passed on. The idea that the
next fellow can pay dies hard.
It is at the root of the cost-plus
system on which price-control
works, and is behind some heavy
increases in departmental
charges which have hit industry
and consumers since the new
year opened, the latest blow
being a record 50 p.c. rise in the
wholesale cost of hydroelectric
power, which will amount to
nearly £2l million annually, in
the aggregate, in extra payments
that will have to be met by
farmers, manufacturers, trans-
port users and householders.
The January lift in costs
covered postage-rates, telephones
and telegrams, and, like the
latest, sprang mainly from
higher wages. When the State
and private industry vie with one
another like this in passing the
buck, it’s a poor lookout for the
ordinary man ; but perhaps some
day he’ll wake up and realise
that the increases are nothing
more nor less than higher wages
which have gone the rounds and
come back to the starting-point.
These services which are now
costing Maorilanders millions
more yearly—and other rises are
likely to follow —are internal,
and subject to purely domestic
control, so N.Z. can’t blame
world conditions as in the case
of imports, which have also con-
tributed a good deal to cost-
price inflation of late years.
The truth seems to be that
M.L. has lost the will to fight
back strongly against costs,
whatever their source, and no
one can foretell where or how
the trend will end ; yet everyone,
from Prime Minister Sid Holland
downwards, is ready enough to
pay lip-service to the need to do
something to stop the drift.
In his message of confidence
for a “bright and prosperous newthe 40-hour week which has
year,” Mr. Holland said:given a lot of duds a place in
“Every effort must be made toindustry ; and some can be laid
improve efficiency and checkat the door of controls, liberally
rising costs.’* Some of thereinforced by a plentiful supply
inefficiency is a legacy of theof cheap money almost up to the
war which deprived thousands ofpresent time. With competition
young men of the chance ofrestricted or suppressed, until
being properly schooled orlately, and now losing ground
trained for a trade or a pro-again, costs have had more or
fession ; some is a by-product ofless a free run for a long time.


A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
w.
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes, all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our /ree fcoofelst—'Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way {Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
( Vice-Chairman ).
A. E. Bond. J. R. Faviell.
F. B. Fleming. G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart.
Permaaeat Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Malcolm Moore Industries
(Combined Figures.)
t Dividends. v Nominal
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £, £
1950. .143,676 5,000 20 p.c. = 30,000 108,675 198,027
Surplus sale of assets, £1067 .. .. 199,094
1951. .152,168 9,167 20 p.c. = 50,000 93,001 292,095
Surplus sale of assets, £4476 .. .. 296,571
Share premiums, £87,500 .. .. 384,071
1952. . 150.534 18,334 20 p.c. = 71,666 60,534 444,605
* Subject to intangibles, £8450 at June 30, 1952.
The business was established in Mel-
bourne after World War I principally to
make road machinery, mobile cranes,
material-handling equipment, etc. In 1934
it built a large coal-handling plant for the
Metropolitan Gas Co. at its West Mel-
bourne works. Today hundreds of
material-handling plants of Malcolm
Moore manufacture are at work in all
States, unloading from ships and railway-
trucks on wharves, at power-stations,
gasworks, mines and other industrial
undertakings—millions of tons of coal
and materials are dealt with every year.
The business has now been split up
into a holding co. (Malcolm Moore
Industries, Ltd., the public co.) and
several wholly-owned subsidiaries, chief
of which are;
Associated Earthmove Pty., Etd.—
This co. specialises in the manufacture and
distribution of a wide range of earthmoving
equipment, roadmaking machinery and industrial
tractor equipment. It has been appointed a
distributor for British Fowler Challenger
crawler-tractors.
Springvale Conveyor and Engineering Co. Pty.,
Etd.—
Manufactures bulk-handling plants. New
works for this subsidiary are in the process of
construction at Springvale (Vic.).
Moore Hydraulics Pty., Etd. —
To cope with requirements of the earthmoving
and agricultural-equipment divisions, this branch
was set up to make hydraulic pumps, valves,
cylinders, etc. It now supplies hydraulic
equipment to other users.
Moore Crane and Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd. —
Representing one of the older sections of the
organisation, this subsidiary is in the fore-
front of the crane-manufacturing industry in
Australia.
Power Farming Equipment Pty., Ltd. —
Manufactures, imports and merchandises a
range of agricultural equipment, mostly suitable
for use with standard makes of tractors.
Malcolm Moore Pty., Etd. —
Victorian distributor for Fordson industrial
tractors, earthmoving equipment for Fordsons
and Gardner diesel engines, and Melbourne dis-
tributor of Fordson agricultural tractors and
parts.
In the term to June 30, 1952, it was
the earthmoving section of the business
which suffered the most severe setback
following the contraction in public works
and general capital expenditure. The
Springvale concern, on the other hand,
has a very large backlog of orders for
bulk-handling plants, calculated to keep it
fully occupied for “some years to come.”
The crane-manufacturing subsidiary is
also fully occupied, contracts completed
during the year ranging from five tons
to over 100 tons hoisting-capacity. The
general trend in the power-farming
business has been for a slackening-off.
It was the “heavy” section that
carried the business in its last term, com-
bined profits prior to taxation and con-
tingencies (£150,025, up £63,400) and
depreciation (£28,120, down £27,820)
being £33,946 higher at £328,679. The
net figure was £1634 lower at £150,534,
and represented 36.9 p.c. on ord. capital
(after providing for the prefs.), compared
with 57.2 p.c. and 92.5 p.c. in the two
preceding years. The ord. distribution
was kept at 20 p.c., and reserves benefited
by £60,534 of the year’s undistributed
profit.
In order to take care of the great
expansion that has taken place in the
business lately the co. offered ord. share-
holders one new ord. at 100 p.c, premium
for each one already held. Pref. capital
was doubled (to £400,000) at the same
time, and employees were offered 50,000
ords. at a 100 p.c. premium. This has
made the total issue 300,000 fully-paid
ords., 350,000 ords. paid to 10s. (with 20s.
premium and capital still owing) and
400,000 5 p.c. cum. prefs.
At last balance-day only ss. capital and
ss. premium had been paid oh the new
ords: —
Combined Figures.
1951. 1952.
Capital .. .. £500,000 £787,500
Overdraft .. .. 327,311 356,824
Creditors . . . . 315,166 142,523
Taxation and con-
tingencies .. 107,534 136,966
Final divs. .. 35,000 48,750
Freeholds .. .. 42,360 98,680
Leaseholds .. .. 202.867 260,006
Plant, etc. .. 174,370 246,793
Shares in other cos. 5,587 5,087
Stock .. . ■ 879,921 1,097,350
Debtors 208,452 196,472
Cash, etc. . . .. 40,975 8,409
Preliminary exes... 9,623
Excess cost over
tangible assets .. 12,981 8,450
Though stocks and work-in-progress rose
last year by £217,429 (to £1,097,350), and
fixed assets by £185,832 to £605,429, the
increase was more than covered by the
amount of capital and premium-money
received, plus undistributed profits.
Finances were quite comfortable last
balance-day, and the call (10s. per ord.
share, including premium) since made
will help to defray capital expenditure at
the new Springvale plant. The main
works are at present at Port Melbourne,
where additional land has also been
acquired.
Though the chairman sounded a
cautious note at the annual meeting last
September, the interim distribution just
declared has been maintained at the rate
of 20 p.c. p.a. The fully-paids at 425. 6d.
yield 9.4 p.c. on a 20 p.c. basis.
For every £1 of ord. capital at last
balance-day there was 225. 6d. of addi-
tional net tangibles in reserves at work,
as well as the 5 p.c. pref. money.
Gordon Edgell & Sons (N.S.W.)
Pref. To Re- Re-
June Profit. 6 J p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
30, £ £ £ £ £
1943.. 6,130 2469 81 p.c. = 4,626 43,521
1944.. 13,731 8900 9 „ „ 5,400 4,431 47,952
1945.. 11,495 3900 8 „ „ 12,800 42,747
Reduction reserves, £BOO • .. 42,447
1946.. 27,428 3900 8 p.c. = 12,800 10,728 63,175
Share premiums, £55,200 .. .. 108,375
1947.. 29,855 3900 8 p.c. = 20,160 5,795 114,170
1948.. 36,342 8900 8.1 „ „ 20,412 12,030 126,200
From inner reserves, £1247 .. .. 127,447
Surplus sale assets, £3688 .. .. 131,135
Goodwill written off, £2384 .. .. 128,751
1949.. 46,052 3900 8 p.c. = 20,160 21,992 150,743
Share premiums, £20,900 .. .. 171,643
1950.. 69,607 3900 8 p.c. = 27,200 38,507 210,150
1951.. 70,411 3900 8 „ „ 27,200 39,311 249,461
Excess tax provision, £12,600 .. 261,961
Share premiums, £32,538 .. 294,499
1952.. 51,263 3900 6J p.c. = 26,552 20,811 315,310
Switching from defence to civil pro-
duction in 1946, this, vegetable-canning
and -preserving concern met hungry
markets both at home and overseas. In
this period it increased capital by
£317,000 (144 p.c.) by three ord.-share
issues, which brought in £108,438 in
share-premiums. The latest issue was
137,000 ords. at a ss. premium in
November, 1951, which lifted paid capital
to the present £537,000, in £1 units, and
includes £60,000 in 6\ p.c. preference
funds.
The co.’s plants are at Cowra and
Bathurst (N.S.W.) and its well-regarded
products include canned tomatoes,
asparagus, peas, beans, cauliflowers, etc.,
which come mostly from its own farms
on the river-flats of the Macquarie and
Lachlan. Efficient production in both
spheres is aided by modern machinery
and equipment. In 1951 the co. bought
a building in Clarence-street, Sydney,
which is being converted to a sales-centre
and warehouse.
For efficiency and competitive trading
all this means much in an industry which
has seen considerable expansion (347 new
fruit- and vegetable-canning factories)
during and since the war, but which
failed to capitalise on its opportunities
through rising costs, and, in the case of
some canners, the marketing of poor-
quality and badly-preserved goods.
It was a combination of factors
higher costs, a more plentiful supply of
fresh vegetables and the worst pea-grow-
ing season on record, followed by the
worst flood —which caused EdgelTs net
earnings to drop last term. Despite
higher sales, profits fell by £19,148 to
£51,263, a figure struck after allowing
£8135 less for taxation (£64,165) and
£10,769 less' for depreciation (£48,451).
Deducting preference divs. (£3900), the
return on ord. capital was 11.5 p.c., as
against 19.5, 19.3, 16.7, 12.8 and 10.3 p.c.
back to 1947, To conserve finances the
ord. div. was reduced from 8 p.c. to
6i p.c.
A decline in sales over the last two
months of the year and the bad season
show up in the addition of £359,148 to
stocks; creditors and debtors fell by
£27,803 and £20,577 respectively;
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £812,000 £400,000 £400,000 £537,000
Overdraft .. 111,518 36,783 101,067 384,550
Creditors .. 49,471 100,109 138,451 105,648
Tax reserve.. 61,816 57,078 78,952 94,228
Final divs. . . 13,920 18,700 18,700 17,452
Freeholds, etc. 144,797 193,594 225,425 276,209
Plant '. . 97,013 103,888 130,865 215,298
Plantations .. 7,731 6,439 5,169 4,378
Stocks . . 393,892 468,854 514,046 873,194
Book debts . . 55,735 49,576 105,403 84,826
Cash, etc. . . 650 619 723 283
Purchase and fitting of the Clarence-street
premises, a freezing-room at Bathurst,
and new building at Cowra explain the
£135,217 addition to freeholds and plant.
For finance the recent share-issue men-
tioned was insufficient, and £283,483 had
to be withdrawn from the bank.
The ordinary units, backed by 335. 3d.
in book assets, were bought at 265. 6d.
last week, which is around their lowest
post-war level. At this price they return
4.9 p.c.
F. T. Wimble and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends
June 30, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.
£ , p.c. p.c. £ £
1943 . . 22,952 8 16j 23,099 106,274
1944 .. 24,805 8 164 23,433 107,646
1945 .. 28,084 8 16| 23,787 111,993
1946 . . 31,549 8 16| 24,007 119,535
1947 . . 35,472 8 16i 24,007 131,000
1948 . . 40,475 8 16| 24,007 147,468
Excess tax provision restored to re-
serves, £27,436 174,904
1949 .. 46,174 8 19 27,038 194,040
1950 . . 48,474 8 19 27,038 215.476
1951 . . 53,864 8 19 27,038 241,801
Loss sale of bonds, £1943 . . . . 239,858
1952 . . 53,744 8 19 27,038 266,564
Supplying printers’ requisites and inks
over the last 85 years—The Bulletin
has been a regular customer for
most of that time —Wimble’s trade
extends to every State, and, through
a subsidiary, to New Zealand. Its
strength and sound management also
show up in a modest capital appetite
(£27,915 has been added to the share-
register since 1929) and through its in-
ternally financed expansion. Now, on a
date to be announced, ordinary capital
is to be doubled.
The issue (one-for-one at par) will lift
the paid-up figure to £292,510, which is
all in £1 shares and includes 50,000
8 p.c. preference units. This will only be
slightly more than present reserves
(£266,564).
Between incorporation in 1920 and
1936, when public interest in the ord.
scrip was admitted, the dividend fell
below 8 p.c. (to 6.2 p.c.) only for three
years. In the 16 years since, the average
rate has been 16.8 p.c.
Up slightly (£380), last term’s earnings
—and dividend-rates —fit into this
pattern. The record figure of £53,744,
struck after allowing £BB3O for deprecia-
tion (down £774), something for taxation
and an unchanged £5OOO for staff bonuses,
represented a return of 41 p.c. on ord.
capital, which compares with 40.7, 36.7
and 34.8 p.c. back to 1949. Repeated for
the fourth year, the 19 p.c. ord. (and
£4OOO preference) dividend called for only
half the earnings.
The new money will provide working
capital and finance completion of a new
factory at Rydalmere (N.S.W.), which
was begun in 1951 and is expected to be
occupied shortly. Last term’s balance-
sheet movements reflect this venture;
£108,748 was added to freeholds and
plant, £50,002 in bonds was realised, and
£90,877 drawn from the bank. In addi-
tion, stocks rose by £63*661 and debtors
£30,770. Although creditors also in-
creased (£37,539), £40,000 represents a
compensation claim in connection with
resumption of the co.’s Mascot property:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £171,255 £171,255 £171,255 £171,255
Overdraft . . 17,688 17,903 108,780
Creditors and
tax provision 92,905 75,284 123,047 160,586
Final divs. . . 25,038 25,038 25,038 25,038
Land and
buildings . . 113,189 114,315 153,972 255,584
Plant and fittings 48,716 65,188 73,386 80,522
Stocks . . 178,075 108,274 167,100 280,761
Debtors . . 90,946 90,530 114,585 145,355
subsidf I? 24,999 24,999 24,999 25,000
Cash and bonds 50,001 88,796 50,002
.Working funds (£81,712) fell by £83,985.
Of present plant, 40 p.c. has been in-
stalled since 1949. This, the new premises
and normal depreciation gives sound
value to the assets, which equal 41s. lid.
per ord. share, allowing for the new issue.
The ords. were sold at 87s. recently,
giving the rights a theoretical value of
335. 6d.; ex rights the scrip will be 535.
6d. At this figure the yield is 7.1 p.c.,
a return which allows for change in the
rate of distribution. In this regard no-
thing has been indicated yet. In the
three years preceding last term 2\ p.c. of
the dividend was labelled bonus; last
term it was confirmed in the 19 p.c. rate.
On the new capital this would require
£3665 less than was earned last term —a
margin not seen since the four war years
1941 to 1944.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd. (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £
1945 .. 8,453 10 p.c. = 7,930 523 38,958
Contingency res. disclosed, £6OOO .. 44,958
Assets realisation reserve, £20,999 .. 59,957
1946 . . 17,631 17ip.c.*=13,878 3753 63,710
Share premiums, £4140 .. .. 67,850
1947 .. 11,589 12 ip.c. = 12,500 66,939
1948 . . 19,478 15 „ „ 15,000 4478 71,417
1949 . . 25,715 15 „ „ 16,875 8840 80,257
Reserves capitalised, £25,000 .. 55,257
Pref. Ord. Total,
p.c. p.c.
1950 . . 25,312 5 15 20,000 5,312 60,569
1951 . . 31,375 5 15 21,250 10,125 70,694
From staff funds, £915 .. •• £1,609
1952 .. 30,289 5&6 15 N 23,416 6,873 78.482
* Includes 5 p.c. bonus.
Operating in the tanning and leather-
manufacturing fields, with an interest in
transmission-engineering, this co. was in-
corporated over 60 years ago. Head-
office is in Sydney, and branches are in
Melbourne and Adelaide. A tribute to
its sound direction shows up in the divi-
dend record, which exhibits a 17-year
succession of 10 p.c. payments to 1929,
and an average of 6.4 p.c. in the next
five difficult years. For the following
decade the average was 8.3 p.c., while
15 p.c. has been averaged for the last
seven years. In addition, shareholders
enjoyed a one-for-four gift-issue in 1949.
Earnings covered the 15 p.c, rate last
term, which was more difficult, with
£6873 to spare after paying £4666 in
pref. divs.—£ssoo next term. But profits
were £lOB6 lower than the record figure
for 1951. and were struck after allowing
£23,270 less for taxation (£14,500) and
£1775 less for depreciation (£1921). On
ordinary capital the return was 20.5 p.c.,
which compares with 23.1, 19.2, 25.7,
19.4 and 11.5 p.c. back to 1947.
A mark of last term’s decline in turn-
over is shown in the £46,876 reduction


established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACK.SOH
asuiuvAw
mmi
■ ■■ -
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
, Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS. EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
fsd
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Boad,
Camperdowiii Sydney, N.B.W.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NEVILLE RAYMOND SKETCHLEY
also known as NEVILLE SCOTT late of
31 Hexham Street Kahibah Newcastle. —
TAKE NOTICE that BARBARA MAE
SKETCHLEY has filed a Petition for
divorce No. 195 of 1953 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 27th May
1953 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from R. H. RICHARDS,
Solicitor, 2nd Floor, Manchester Unity
Building, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARY IRIS JEAN CALLEGARI also
known as MRS. ATHOL MURPHY late of
Kempsey in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that GIOVANNI
CALLEGARI has filed a Petition for
divorce No. 196 of 1953 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 27th May
1953 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from R. H. RICHARDS,
Solicitor, 2nd Floor, Manchester Unity
Building, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar,
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
*0
90*
All
• Every year a bonus year
• Prompt settlement of claims
classes of Assurances transacted
For service and satisfaction effect all your
assurances through the
AUSTRALIAN
_ Mft •Mmmmmm.
ASSURANCE COMPANY ITS'
HUNTER. AND BUO-H STREETf. SYDNEY.
tacorgoiaud to Quetmland, ISSOt
For information only: The requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act 1936 of the
State of New South Wales have not been fully complied with In this advertisement, which
is an abridgment of the full Prospectus. A copy of the full Prospectus dated the
Eighteenth day of March 1953 has been filed with the Registrar-General of the State of
New South Wales, who takes no responsibility as to its contents.
RAVENSHDE TIN DREDGING LIMITED
(Incorporated in the Australian Capital Territory on Hth July, 1952)
Authorised Capital £600,000
divided into 600,000 shares of £1 each
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF AN ISSUE AT PAR OF
400,000 SHARES OF £1 EACH
PRESENT ISSUE
Of the 400,000 shares to be issued, 80,000 shares are to be offered for
subscription by the shareholders of Alluvial Gold Limited and 100,000
shares are to be offered for subscription by the shareholders of Barrytown
Gold Dredging Limited (in Voluntary Liquidation). Any shares which are
not subscribed for by the registered shareholders of those two companies
will be subscribed for by the directors of Ravenshoe Tin Dredging Limited
or their nominees. The balance, comprising 220,000 shares, which has been
underwritten, is available for subscription by the public.
DIRECTORS
ERIC HERBERT pratten, 8.E., Engineer
david autton pratten, Solicitor
JAMES HECTOR GORDON SANDES, 8.E., Engineer
william JOHN ellis, aj.m.m., Engineer
all of
26 Jamison
Street,
Sydney, N.S.W
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY. The
primary object of the company is
to work tin bearing lands of ap-
proximately 856 acres situated to
the west of the Atherton Table-
land between Mount Garnet and
Ravenshoe in Northern Queens-
land.
GENERAL. The areas selected for
dredging contain approximately 31
million cubic yards of an avera.ge
bore value of 10.5 dunces tin oxide
per cubic yard, of which it is esti-
mated 85 per cent, will be recovered
by bucket dredging or approxi-
mately 750 tons tin oxide per an-
num, assaying 72 per cent, metallic
tin. s
FINANCE. The project will be
financed by the cash subscription
of 400,000 shares of £1 each and
an advance of £200,000 repayable
by ten annual instalments as pro-
vided for in the arrangement with
Australia and New Zealand Bank
Limited and the Secretary for
Labour and Industry of the State
of Queensland as referred to in
the full Prospectus. The company
has, however, the right to liquid-
ate the advance at any time.
TERMS OF ISSUE. One shilling
and sixpence (l/6d) per share will
be payable on application, being
one shilling per share application
money and sixpence per share
allotment money. The first call of
three shillings and sixpence (3/6d)
per share will be made within one
(1) month of date of allotment
and the remaining three calls of
five shillings (5/-) each will be
made at intervals of not less than
six (6) months.
TAXATION. One-third of the
amount of calls paid to tin mining
companies operating in Australia
Is at present an allowable deduc-
tion for purposes of Income Tax
under Section 78 (1) (b) of the
Commonwealth Income Tax and
Social Services Contribution As-
sessment Act.
REGISTERED OFFICE
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES BUILDING, CANBERRA, A.C.T.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS
MESSRS. HEADLAM, HEWSON & CO., 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
MEMBERS OF THE SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
STATUTORY INFORMATION.
(i) The minimum amount which
in the opinion of the directors
is required to be provided in
respect of each of the follow-
ing matters is:— .
(a) Consideration
payable on ac-
quiring of
sub-leases
(b) Consideration
payable for
purchase of
dredge ..
(c) Estimated cost
of developing
and equipping
area
(d) Expenses in-
curred in con-
nection with
dredge to 31st
December, 1952
(e) Preliminary Ex-
penses esti-
mated at
(f) Underwriting
and Broker-
age
(g) Working Capital
£600,000
(li) Of the total moneys required
for the purposes of the com-
pany as set out in sub-para-
graph (i) hereof, £200,000 will
be provided by overdraft ar-
ranged with Australia and
New Zealand Bank Limited.
This overdraft will be repay-
able by equal annual instal-
ments over ten years. Other
than in this respect, not any
moneys have been borrowed
' v by the company.
(iii) No sum is to be provided in
respect of the matters afore-
said other than from the pro-
ceeds of the issue of shares
and the overdraft referred to
in sub-paragraph (ii) hereof.
£55,000
85.000
417,250
4,250
2,500
11.000
25,000
APPLICATION FOR SHARKS. The list will open on the 23rd March 1953
and close on the 24th April 1953 but the directors reserve the right to close
at an earlier date without notice. Applications for shares will proceed
only on one of the forms of application referred to and endorsed upon a
printed copy of the full Prospectus, copies of which may be obtained from
the Underwriting Brokers to the issue, Messrs. Headlam, Hewson & Co.,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney, or through any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange in Australia.
Q 64
in debtors and £18,886 increase
in stocks. Now at a record
figure, these are expected to be
reduced in the current term:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Capital .. £175.000 £175,000 £225,000
Liabilities*. . 158,702 255,138 176.045
Final div. .. 9,560 9,560 9,800
Freeholds .. 110,298 118,613 114,967
Plant, etc... 26,019 33,721 .38,387
Mortgage ~ 1,941 1,845 1,557
Stocks .. 144.642 206,052 224,938
Book debts 92,230 135,243 88,367
Cash, etc. .. 28,702 19,919 21,112
* Includes an unspecified provision for
taxation.
There was a reduction of £79,093
in outside liabilities, of which
£33,031 was repayment of bank
overdraft (now £100,159). Work-
ing capital (£150,429) was
£51,768 greater; of this £50,000
came from an issue of 50,000
£l6 p.c. preference shares early
in the term.
Pondering over maintenance
of the 15 p.c. dividend-rate, it
is interesting to note that since
1939 Australian output of belting
and sole leather has increased by
45 p.c,, and that for upholstery
by 57 p.c. Yet there has only
been an 11 p.c. increase in the
number of tanning and leather
factories and we are still export-
ing more hides than in 1939.
There appears to be no lack of
work now or in the future for
the efficient concern.
At 455. (41s. four months ago),
Ludowici’s ordinary scrip yields
6.6 p.c. Net tangible assets with
a book-value. of 325. 7d. back
each unit.
Ravenshoe Tin Dredging
Emerging from the Pratten
stable in Sydney, Ravenshoe Tin
Dredging, Ltd., is to take over,
on sub-lease from Alluvial
Gold, Ltd., 856 acres of tin-
bearing land near Mt. Garnet,
on the Atherton Tableland
(N.Q.). A few miles away
Tableland Tin has been dredg-
ing successfully for several
years.
There are two areas —Battle
Creek (estimated to contain 16
million c.y. of tin-bearing
ground), 6} miles from Mt. Gar-
net, and Nettle Creek (15 mil-
lion c.y.), four miles farther on
towards Ravenshoe township.
The 31 million total yardage is
estimated to average tin-
oxide per cubic yard; on an 85
р. recovery, dredging 3 million
с. a year, a yield of 750 tons
of tin-oxide, assaying 72 p.c.
metallic tin, is forecast.
Mining-engineer H. E. Clay-
ton has reported on the proper-
ties :
Both properties are suitable for
bucket-dredging. Where boreholes
have disclosed a granite bottom there
is usually a soft decomposed value-
less layer above the hard rock and
the remainder of the property has a
reasonably soft valueless bottom, so
that no difficulties are anticipated in
the dredge-buckets cleaning up the
bottom values. The digging-material
otherwise is of a sandy nature com-
bined with sedimentary gravels inter-
spersed with bands of clay, but no
difficulties have been found in emul-
sifying this material and setting free
the tin, which is sufficiently coarse to
ensure good recovery. The wash is
a free-digging material. Bore-logs
disclose the presence of a large
amount of barren overburden which
can be stripped and by-passed through
the dredge. It varies considerably
over the property, but a figure of
50 p.c. of the total yardage has been
calculated as available for stripping.
Buried timber has not .been encoun-
tered in the boring of either property.
On the basis of £llOO (Aust.)
a ton for tin, net proceeds
(allowing for royalty) are put at
£566,000 a year from a through-
put of 3 million yards a year,
averaging a recovery of 8.930 z.
t.o. a yard.
Including depreciation, pro-
vision for transfer of the dredge
from Battle Creek to Nettle
Creek, and repayment of over-
draft, but excluding taxation,
total expenses on a throughput of
3 million c.y. are estimated at
£236,500 p.a,, or about Is. 7d. a
yard. (Of this, working costs
are put at a shilling a yard.)
Deducting expenses, a net
profit (subject to taxation) of
£329,500 a year is estimated.
Life of the property is reckoned
at about 10 years. Assuming
that values, recoveries and costs
are consistent with estimates
and the price of the metal holds,
total profits from treatment of
the yardage indicated would be
about £3,000,000.
Consideration payable to
Alluvial Gold for the leases is
£55,000 (to cover outlay) and a
royalty of 2\ p.c. on the net
realisations from tin concen-
trates.
It is capitalise the
venture of £400,000 in £1 shares,
and to accept a bank loan
(guaranteed by the Queensland
Government) of £200,000. Of
the share-capital, 80,000 £1
shares are to be offered for cash
to shareholders in Alluvial Gold
(one-for-one), 100,000 (one-for-
two) to shareholders in Barry-
town Gold Dredging, Ltd. (in
voluntary liquidation). Any
shares not accepted by these in-
terests will be taken up by direc-
tors of Ravenshoe Tin or their
nominees. The remaining
220,000 shares, by
Headlam, Hewson and Co., are
offered to the public.
The co. will buy for £85,000
(plus £4250 expenses) the Barry-
town co.’s dredge, now dis-
mantled at Greymouth (N.Z.).
Additional cost of developing
and equipping the area are put
at £417,250. It is estimated that
it will take 2\ years to trans-
port, modify and re-erect the
dredge. Electricity will be
drawn from the Queensland
Government supply. Water will
be pumped 2\ miles from the
Herbert R^ver.
On the board of the present
float are Eric H. Pratten, David
A. Pratten, J. H. G. Sandes and
William J. Ellis.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Many distinguished medical men were
present when the ball of the Royal South
Sydney Hospital was held at the A.C.I.
Ballroom on Friday night for the first
time in 15 years. The patron of the ball,
Mrs. C. E. Winston, wore a handsome
dress combining a jade-green skirt with
a white bodice embroidered with crystal
and green beads. Mrs. C. M. Guiney,
president of the ball-committee, wore
silver brocade swathed with grey mar-
quisette. With her husband. Dr. C. M.
Guiney, she entertained representatives
of sister-hospitals and also the Actihg-
Consul-General for Greece, Mr. A. C.
Gooma, and Mrs. Gooma. Mrs. P. S.
Hunt, who was in heaven-blue satin, was
secretary of the ball, Mrs. C. J. Drans-
field treasurer. Margaret Power, who
celebrated her 21st birthday at the ball,
wore an unusual dress of grey organza
tucks mounted on pink lace. Her large
party included Margaret and Bruce
Coyne, whose-parents. Dr. and Mrs. F.
Coyne, were also present.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Charley’s Aunt” at the Mercury must
have had, about the happiest first-night
audience for some time, for even the
most blase could scarce forbear to guffaw,
while the more easily amused, such as
this Letter, nearly fell out of their seats
with laughter. Knowledgeable and ex-
perienced first-nighters, the Don Services
and the Malcolm Selby-Davidsons,
seemed to find it amusing, too. Its success
was largely due to the pace at which it
sped along and to the portrayal of the
classic aunt by Keith Waishe. He made
her such a nice old lady.
☆ ☆ ☆
The exhibition of Douglas Pratt’s
works at the Grosvenor Galleries
attracted quite a large crowd when
Charles Moses did the opening cere-
mony with his usual humorous aplomb
and Erik Langker performed introductions
all round. Jill and Beth Campbell shot
in early to have a look around and then
departed with earnest looks on their faces
as if business weighed heavily. The
little red dots sprang up on the pictures
quite quickly in a very heartening way,
one of the purchasers being Mrs. W.
Kendall, of Wagga. Mrs. Pratt,' who
wore a black dress and a wide hat to the
opening, recently returned with her
husband after having spent nine months
travelling on the Continent.
☆ ☆ ☆
The first social gathering of the Royal
Empire Ladies’ Auxiliary had for its
guest-speaker Sir James Bissett, who is
without a doubt the jolliest pd most
amusing speaker in this city. His account
of his experiences as captain of the Queen
Mary is a classic guaranteed to keep any
audience simmering with laughter. His
chuckles to himself, his apparent con-
tinual checking of a sailorman’s racy
language, his heavy sarcasm (“We landed
these men in conditions of great secrecy
—there were only about 30,000 on Sydney
Heads to see us come in”) are really
irresistible. Mrs. F. H. Berryman, acting-
president of the auxiliary, in her speech
of thanks, said she would recommend
Sir James’s cure for seasickness to her
friends embarking for the Coronation.
The cure? A pint of seawater three-
times a day!
☆ ☆ ☆
At the meeting called to consider
raising funds for a memorial to the late
Lady Anderson there were three of
Sydney’s most distinguished citizens who
had been students of her husband, the
late Sir Francis Anderson. They were
the Chief Justice, the Honorable K. W.
Street, who launched the appeal, Mr.
R. J. F. Boyer and Miss Gladys Marks.
It was decided to raise £l-500 for a
grand piano for the Great Hall at the
University, with a committee consisting
of Mrs. Rupert Scammeli (chairman).
Miss Margaret Gillespie, Miss Betty
Archdale, Mrs. J. Cassidy, Miss'Gladys
Marks, Mrs. John McPhillamy, Mrs.
H. A. Showers and Mrs. Alfred Varcoe.
Already there is £385 in hand, of which
£2OO was contributed by the Musical
Association of the University. Donations
to this fund are deductible for income-
tax purposes and can be sent to Miss
Archdale, principal of the Women’s
College at the University.
The social committee of the Food for
Babies Fund, which for 28 years has
been helping people in need both in‘city
and country, last year raised £l3Ol,
which was handed over to the president
of the fund, the Hon. Q. Clyne, M.L.A.,
at a meeting held on Thursday last at
Princes. The hon. treasurer, Mr. Frank
McEachern, explained to the 250 people
present that the fund never distributes
money, only food, and that its weekly
milk bill was £45. At the meeting the
president of the social committee, Mrs.
Ken Pointing, received a sheaf of gladioli
and a handbag in appreciation of her
work, and the president of the Younger
Set, Miss Ricky Doherty, was congratu-
lated on the work she had done and
received the fund’s good wishes on her
recent engagement.
When pretty Maria Loneragan, of Pine
Lodge , Mudgee, made her debut at the
Loreto, Kirribilli, ex-students ’ dance
last week her mother, Mrs. E. H. Lonera-
gan, also an ex-student of the college,
was matron-of-honor and presented the
28 debutantes to the Lord Mayor and
Lady Mayoress, Mr. and Mrs. P. D.
Utils. At the ball, at which there were
nearly 800 dancers, the foyer and band-
stand of the Trocadero were decorated
with the school crest , which was also
reproduced on the place-cards at the
official table. The president of the
O.G.U., Miss Eileen Crews, wore a dis-
tinctive dress of plaid organza allied with
white taffeta, and was assisted in enter-
taining by the vice-presidents, Dr. Tess
Carmichael and Mrs. Tom Bateman.
Mrs. Loneragati’s dress was of honey-
colored satin with a black satin bodice
embroidered with braid and jet. Maria’s
photograph is by Identity Studios.
One of those who seem to be getting
the most thrill from a coming trip to
the Coronation is Mrs. W. R. Dovey,
who leaves by the Orion on April 11.
She says she feels like Cinderella with a
dream come true. Mrs, Dovey,-who has
never been abroad before, will be away
for seven or eight months, and after the
Coronation will visit relatives in Devon
and in Edinburgh, which was the home
of her father and where her uncle still
lives.
☆ ☆ ☆
Whether as an introduction to drama,
a refresher course or just plain entertain-
ment, the three drama-recitals arranged
and presented by Geoffrey Thomas at
the Assembly Hall on Monday nights are
very good value. Mr. Thomas arranged
the recitals because of the intense interest
in drama that was shown at a recent
summer school held at Frensham, and
he has two very gifted readers in Dinah
Shearing and Paul McNaughton. At the
first recital Dinah could really have been
said to have run the whole gamut of
the emotions, for she portrayed Milla-
ment, Medea, Nora (“A Doll’s House”),
Cressida, Katherine of Aragon, Camille
and Bernard Shaw’s Lavinia. For the
final recital next Monday the title is
“Drama in Many Lands.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs, Edgar Bainton welcomed the
guests at the reception which the Sydney
Symphony Orchestral Committee gave in
honor of the visiting French organist,
M. Andrd Marchal, on Thursday last,
for which the members polished up their
French, as M. Marchal doesn’t speak.
much English. Mrs. A. Chartres looked
very smart in grey shantung with a small
Kelly-green hat, and as usual Mrs. Roy
McKerihan’s hat was pretty and eye-
catching, this time a pale-green toque
smothered in golden wattle. It almost
rivals her party hat of lily-of-the-valley
mounted on navy net. Admired were
Mrs. F. J. Mortleman’s soft-pink kid
gloves and pink-rose worn with a black
outfit and Mrs. Rupert Scammell’s
cocktail-hat in delicate pink, also worn
with black.
☆ ☆ ☆
Noted a party of consular and diplo-
matic folk at the Tivoli (Edwin Styles)
show for Red Cross last week. With
the Consul-General for Nicaragua and
Mrs. Cliff Paray were the Minister for
Italy and Madame Daneo, Count and
Countess Posadowsky, Judge and Madame
Regala, the Consul-General for Lebanon,
Mr. Ghorra, Madame Martin Wang, Mrs.
V. Todman, Mrs. L, Henry and Dr. and
Signora Lucciolli.
☆ ☆ ☆
Members of the Australian-American
Association voted the Friendship Party
on Thursday “something out of the
box,” when the speakers were Mr. and
Mrs. Charles Chauvel, who gave a vivid
talk on their experiences in the Northern
Territory. Guest-of-honor was Mrs.
Kenneth Potter, wife of the U.S, Acting-
Consul-General, and another interesting
visitor was Mrs. Georgia Travis, who is
the first woman to win a Fulbright Award
at the lecturing level in any department
of Sydney University (she is a specialist
in medical social work). Welcomed back
with great warmth was Mrs. Florence
Taylor, who has been on the sick list,
but who said she was “right glad to see
all the members and friends once more.”
MELCCftJRNC
Event of the week, of course, was the
White Ensign Ball, which attracted oyer
700 dancers to the Royale and which
helped the funds of the White Ensign
Club. The nautical touches about the
decorations included a binnacle set in
the foyer, a skiff in full canvas at the
entrance and huge rosettes of red, white
and blue circling naval crowns on the
pillars.
The president of the club, Ken Luke,
and his wife received the official guests,
who included Vice-Admiral Sir John
Collins and Lady Collins, she in ice-blue
French crepe romaine. Also in the
official party were Capt. and Mrs. J. M.
Armstrong, the latter wearing black lace
mounted on white taffeta, Commodore
and Mrs. E, Price, Capt. and Mrs. M. J.
Clark, whose sweeping gown was of
black organdie, Commodore and Mrs.
J. C. Morrow and the Netherlands Naval
Attache, Capt. L. Goslings, and Mrs.
Goslings.
Mrs. Luke’s frock was of dove-grey
tulle with white guipure lace appliqued
on the bodice and outlined with silver
sequins. Members of the comrriittee were
Mrs. Royden Honeyman, whose gown of
white crepe was embellished with green
rhinestones and gold; Mrs. Andrew
Peacock, her tulle frock royal-purple;
Mrs. Lou Green in scarlet chiffons ; Mrs.
Eric Cottrell, her choice white Swiss
embroidered muslin; Mrs. A. Griffiths,
whose laces were apricot-tinted ; and Mrs.
Con Curtain in a black faille frock.
☆ ☆ *
Richard Collett, star of “South Pacific,”
sang the role of Scarpia in “Tosca” at
the special matinee at the Princess, In
the audience were Mrs. George Griffith,
Mrs. Tom Carlyon, Mrs, John White-
head, Mrs. Leo Guest, Mrs. Philip Dare,
Mrs. Maurice Copolov, Mrs. Fred
Brockhoff, Mrs. Felix Harber, Mary la
Roche and Virginia Paris.
* * ☆
Mr. and Mrs. Gray Staley entertained
at their Brighton home over 100 guests
at a buffet-dinner party in celebration
of three engagements —Pat Osborne to
Sydneysider David Scholley, Fay Markby
to Ronald Smith and Margaret Ayling to
John Paton—and the birthday of Mrs.
George Haines. Mrs. Staley, smart in
black, was helped by her daughter Valerie,
who wore tailored beige shaptung.
Among the guests were Mesdames Roy-
den Honeyman and Constance Day,
Sydney visitor Mabs McQuirk, Mrs. Bill
McDermott, Mrs. Norman Spry and
Mrs. Eric Cottrell.
☆ ☆ ☆
Lady Brookes, president of the Queen
Victoria Hospital, entertained members
of the hospital committee at Kurneh, her
South Yarra home, where it was
announced that the centenary dinner
and mannequin-parade at Menzies’ on
February 16 had netted £1047. Mrs.
Arnold Isaacson and June Cocking were
joint hon. secretaries for the dinner and
Messrs. L. Nelken and W. E. King the
hon. treasurers. Hospital committee
members present included Mesdames A.
Wenzel, R. R. Hamer and Hamilton Sleigh.
☆ ☆ *
,Air-Marshal Sir George Jones, presi-
dent of the Overseas League, was with
his wife and son lan at the barbecue
organised by members of the leagues
Younger Group and held at the Queen s-
road residence of Mr. and Mrs. Fred
Brockhoff. President of the Younger
Group, Kathleen Gentle, wore a black-
and-white-check blouse and black cotton
skirt; Felicity Harber’s brown-and-white-
spotted cottons had white linen outlining
the bodice. Cotton in gay stripes was
worn by Barbara Bruce. Mrs. Thomas
Hudson, wife of the O.L.’s secretary,
wore a grey-and-pink-striped cotton
frock. Mrs. Donald McFarlane, a com-
mittee-member, wore shantung in coral
tonings.
Mrs. T. T. Hallway , wife of Victoria’s
ex-Prernier, was a member of the com-
mittee which ran the highly successful
Victoria League Young Contingent Ball.
Pettle, with fair hair and blue eyes, Mrs,
Hallway is a smart dresser. Her hobbies
are interior-decorating and gardening.
The committee of St. Vincent’s Hospital
is appealing for £50,000 to build a badly-
needed new casualty wing. Several
organisations are working hard for this,
among them St. Vincent’s Hospital Red
Cross Auxiliaries, which will hold a plain-
and fancy-dress children’s party on April
18, at 1.30 p.m., at the Royale Ballroom.
There will be, in addition to prizes for
dressing, a Punch-and-Judy show, clowns,
talkies, etc. Mesdames R. Buxton, T. J.
Walsh, H. C. Mills and C. B. Metzner
are the hon. organisers. Mrs. F. P. White
has charge of publicity and Mr. G. Wilks
the treasury. Tickets are 7s. 6d. each.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Harold Holt, wife of the Minister
for Immigration, has invited a number
of citizens to be present at a meeting in
the Town Hall on March 24 to discuss
plans for a Coronation Concert in the
Town Hall on May 25. The Governor
and Lady Brooks have granted their
patronage and will be present. The
committee will work through the Lord
Mayor’s Fund, and proceeds are to assist
the work of Y.W.C.A. Many groups of
New Australians have agreed to co-
operate.
☆ * *
In the absence of the president, Mrs.
R. G. Casey, who is overseas, Mrs. W. W.
Killough received Mr. and Mrs. P. G.
Law at the Delphic, when Mr. Law, who
is Director of the Antarctic Division, De-
partment of External Affairs, showed
members of the women’s group of the
Australian-American Association color
films of Antarctica. Among members
present were Mrs. T. Spensley, who is the
group’s secretary, and Mesdames Don
Campbell, J. D. Carlson and David
Cheadle. Earlier the meeting discussed
plans for the Coral Sea Ball, which will
be held in the Royale Ballroom on May
8 . Mrs. Keith Rigg (UL2071) and
Mrs. James Clark (UL3986) were elected
ticket-secretaries.


WHS4
'
“ I think I’d like
e White Horse
sdf
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
11
Harry Dearth, Producer-Director
of “The General Motors Hour,
is the man who britlgs to your
home the greatest plays in the
realm of radio. You will hear
the results of his outstanding
ability to give you only the best
when, you tune to
THE
GENERAL MOTORS
HOUR
Wednesday Nights at 8.30
2GB,
2 HR,
2LT,
3VL,
4RO,
SAW,
2CA,
2 MG,
3CV,
4TO,
4BH,
2WL,
2 MW,
3HA, '
5RM,
SDN,
2BH,
2NZ„
3 SR,
6WB,
61X,
2K.O,
2PK, 1
4GY,
6MD,
7H0
2LF
3TR
4GR
TLA
\hW M aequark B midcasting Service
SUNDRY SHOWS
Stage and Music
Andre Marchal
Sydney, which has no tradi-
tion of great organ music—even
the post of city organist has been
jettisoned —did the unusual on
Saturday night when a compara-
tively good house turned up for
the first recital given by the blind
organist from the Church of St.
Eustache in Paris, It is note-
worthy because, of the four
major instruments used in con-
cert work, the organ has the least
popular appeal.
M. Marchal most obvi-
ously excels in, and is at his hap-
piest in, works cast in the minor
mode and which call for ex-
treme delicacy of touch. In the
liturgical works which made up
the bulk of the first half of the
programme —and most of these
were formidably austere —he
found a fuller scope for this than
in the secular works which fol-
lowed. Of them Couperin’s
“Recit de Chromhorne,”
Daquin’s “Noel etranger,” with
its splendid variations, and
Bach’s great Prelude and Fugue
in C were the most impressive.
The balance held in the fugue
between manuals and pedals was
striking evidence of the organist’s
calibre, and his climax-building
here and in the final pages of
Franck’s Choral No. 3 left noth-
ing to be desired. In the first
four works, however, there was
too little color-contrast; and
one, at least —Marchand’s
“Fond d’Orgue” scarcely
merited a place at all.
One of the moderns sup-
plied the most captivating piece
of the evening. This was a
Scherzo by Gigout, Marchal’s
teacher, and has a charming air
and lilting rhythm.
A theme submitted by Eugene
Goossens formed the basis of
some fascinating improvisations.
It says much for the genius of
M. Marchal that from such
an unpromising set of notes he
was able to build up music of
considerable stature, the theme
or part of it clear in each
variation.
* * * *
“The White Sheep of the
Family”
The Bulletin’s Melbourne
critic commented more than
favorably on this comedy —by
L. Du Garde Peach and lan
Hay—and Sydney audiences, at
the Tiv., are currently confirm-
ing his verdict.
Edwin Styles, who hasn’t
been seen about these parts for
some years, is the main attrac-
tion of the piece—as the proud
and polished head of a family
of burglars, shoplifters, pick-
pockets and forgers which has
specialised in such callings for
two or three hundred years, and
takes some pride in the fact that
it hasn’t seen the inside of a
prison for about the same period.
The first real threat to the even
tenor of their lives appears when
the son of the family, an im-
peccable forger, brings it to the
brink of disgrace by attempting
to go straight, getting a job in
a bank and engaging himself to
the daughter of the police com-
missioner.
Mr. Styles makes some, very
amiable comedy of his position
as a churchwarden, a J.P. and
the ablest cracksman in England
—“I steal Lady Goandas’s
jewels ; she pays her dressmaker
and has a trip to Paris on the
insurance money; and the in-
surance company, of course,
can’t lose” —although the best
laughs of the evening are pro-
vided by Collins Hilton, who,
as an absent-minded vicar, gives
a comic study of absent-minded-
ness funnier than anything this
commentator has seen in that
line.
Loveday Hills, as Mrs. Winter,
who specialises in knocking-off
fur coats and jewellery from the
stores; June Jago, as the light-
fingered daughter of the family ;
John Lee as the forger son;
Maree Austin as Janet, the maid
who is learning the game; and
Walter Pym, Mary Parker and
John Huson aid and abet Mr.
Styles admirably, so that one can
only add, after seeing the
“House Full” sign over the box-
office, “Why not, indeed, why
not?”
* * * *
“Tosca”
If anybody was looking for
the cast of “South Pacific” the
other afternoon in the vicinity
of His Majesty’s, Melbourne, he
was looking in the wrong place.
They were to be found at the
Princess watching with admira-
tion their star Richard Collett
making a great job of Scarpia
in VLa Tosca.”
Never, in present writer’s ex-
perience, has any actor provided
a more suave, polished, inwardly
agitated, sardonic and living
portrait of that damned villain,
and he even gave him a slight
neurotic twitch of the mouth,
no doubt to illustrate his inner
conflict. His deep ringing voice
only needed a touch of added
richness to be as good as
Brownlee’s.
For some reason or other the
Italian Mattera was made to sing
the same part in English and
learn it in a week, whereas Mr.
Collett sang it in Italian, which
was certainly an advantage —the
English translation of “La
Tosca” seems to have been done
by the office-boy while the
translator was out at lunch.
The rest of the cast sang in
English, but the excellent sing-
ing and nearly as good acting of
Lance Ingram as Cavaradossi
and Betty Fretwell as Tosca
made the office-boy’s diction
sound almost poetic. The scene
of Cavaradossi’s torture, Tosca’s
bargaining with Scarpia for her
body and his murder were enor-
mously dramatic. Lorenzo
Nolan gave a good performance
as a security policeman, and
Joseph Post swept everything
along with his baton. Mr. Col-
lett couldn’t complain of the
quality of his supporters.
* * * *
Schubert Anniversary
Gerhard Willner, the migrant
pianist who last year took cog-
nisance of the 125th anniversary
of Beethoven’s death by playing
all the great sonatas of that
master, did the same this year
for Schubert with a season of
four concerts of his pianoforte
works at the Assembly Hall.
He constantly evoked in the
eight sonatas the singing quality
which seemed as natural to
Schubert as breathing, and, in
the huge posthumous sonata in
A Major, the deeper feelings of
grief and anguish. In between
the sonatas he sandwiched those
moments musicaux and im-
promptus which sound less like
a piano than a voice singing.
♦ * * *
A Tschaikovsky Festival
The latest city to succumb to
the current epidemic of festivals
is Brisbane, where the Queens-
land Symphony Orchestra
opened the season with three
Tschaikovsky concerts. Czech
conductor Rudolph Pekarek was
imported from Perth to conduct
the last three symphonies, two
piano concertos, the violin con-
certo and a selection of over-
tures.
In view of the constant
recurrence of these works in the
orchestra’s repertoire, a festival
this might well have fea-
tured more unfamiliar works,
such as the “Manfred” sym-
phony and Francesca Da Rimini,
and tribute should have been
paid to the writer of “Eugene
Onegin” and the many ballet
suites.
However, the vast audience
did not seem to object to
the emotional monotony of the
works chosen, which revealed
Tschaikovsky as a lavish melo-
dist, to the last unable to adapt
that material to the demands of
symphonic style.
* * * »
Leone Stredwick
This young pianist’s steadily-
increasing stature received its
big challenge in her Sydney Con.
recital from one of Brahms’s
monumental masterpieces: the
Handel Variations, and in
general she acquitted herself
well. True, the fugal treatment
could have been given a greater
Handelean breadth, but in the
variations there were always
crispness and adroitness, a keen
awareness of the music’s playful
fancies, an intelligent approach
to variations of mood and
rhythm. In the Sonata Op. 10
No. 2 of Beethoven the light-
hearted chatter of the Allegro
and Presto were well maintained,
with no little poignancy inform-
ing the beautiful middle section.
* * * *
Wolfgang Schneiderhan and
his fiddle had an audience at
Melbourne Town Hall which
applauded in all the wrong
places in the magnificently-
rendered Brahms A Major
Sonata, but listened breathlessly
to the enormously long, terrifi-
cally difficult and ceaselessly
pouring Bach Chaconne from
the Partita in D Minor. The
violinist paid a well-deserved
compliment to accompanist Ray-
mond Lambert by ranking him
equal in the applause that fol-
lowed the Brahms item.
Artbursts
Charles Crampton, chief
reader for the “Herald” publica-
tions, also sometimes takes a
look at Nature, and the results
,6i his scrutiny are showing at
Tye’s Gallery, Melbourne, in a
big array of oils, watercolors
and drawings. His observation
is best in his landscapes where
he experiments with various
methods. His palette-knife
picture, “Djerriwarrk Creek,
Bacchus Marsh,” with its chalky
banks, is a good impression, and
the red clay of “The Swimming
Pool, Alphington,” is effective.
There is a quiet charm about
“Green Pastures, Mernda,” and
he has caught botanist Crosbie
Morrison in a lively mood in a
10-minute sketch which will
probably be 41 the better if it
isn’t worked on.
« * * *
Eric Smith’s paintings at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney,
are largely angular, chalky
denials of most natural truths —
he appears to be flitting from one
artist to another, Picasso among
them, and is apparently flying so
high that he here gives no indi-
cation of when, where or how
he might lay his first egg.
Talkies
“My Cousin Rachel”
In his screen-play of Daphne
du Maurier’s novel Nunnally
Johnson has laid the greatest •
stress on the enigmatic character
of the central figure in the story,
and right to the end the audi-
ence, as was the reader, is kept
in two minds as to whether
Rachel is an unscrupulous ad-
venturess or a gentle, refined
woman who is the victim of a
peculiar concatenation of unfor-
tunate circumstances.
The set-up is a Hollywood
producer’s dream. A big gloomy
house set on the Cornish coast,
with rain lashing the mullioned
windows and surf which the
camera can slow down to make
the rollers look more sinister, all
in the romantic pre-autompbile
era, and with a woman in it
who can be either a saint or a
devil.
Olivia de Havilland was an
obvious choice for Rachel, and
Richard Burton makes an im-
pressive first appearance as the
young man who is torn between
his love for Rachel and the dark
suspicions that even this cannot
dispel. He never tries to ride
his harassment into the ground.
At Sydney Century.


' %
mm
m
m
.
m
iM
'sfts
mt
gill
tm
•• :•• -.v
SS3S3
m
m
■:••■■••■
gss>
sssisf
M
lliPili
Of
/tet/iudimi ate mmkpmi
mr m
1 V.C-
-' \ >■“ ' 0- V
v s&essSsS
s \-\ >
■ ■ -■•v-.-y-
-y^tiir-
-- '. .N ' *
|&P&'g
H -
jtftuiH/ifuiirJihmn
1
■x
/
H
18
BSS
«
s vXv^<
MS
s
»S
*\wmm
■Mm
|y. i
ii
w»:
•/*•••':•
saw
*
SgSS
L#l
&%: ’: >•; ••■ •
83&
ii
m
mM
mm<
&ss
. .
S;-KW
-
ShS
UWAIU/^
«ps
■
m
'"* !
c-'-:-
I mm
mm
y :,•
Ji
H
■M
iippi
' 8»
Noihilig equals wool”
m
/'/'
> P
i a
5»V®
m
m
m
m
S
slii
<v\<W
f>>: ;
f r... ,
YARRA FAILS ltd
m
ABBOTSFORD N
9.
VICTORIA
ancestor-washup
by J.B.BLAIR
JUST as Mr. Noyse was
settling himself down in
front of the fire after taking
his third curtain-call in the
bedroom of the * two youngest
Noyse boys, eleven-year-old
David approached him diffi-
dently.
“I want to ask you some-
thing,” he announced.
“All right. Go ahead!” re-
plied his father.
“What was the maiden name
of your grandmother on your
mother’s side?”
“What?”
“Your grandmother’s maiden
name. That is, your mother’s
mother’s maiden name.”
“Let me see. My mother’s
name was Gordon. Elsie Gor-
don. Her father was Alec Gor-
don, and he married Charlotte.
Yes, that’s it. Charlotte.”
“But what was her name be-
fore she was married?”
“Charlotte.”
“Charlotte who ?”
“Heck, I don’t know. I re-
member her Christian-name was
Charlotte because my cousins
used to call her Aunt Charlotte.”
“Why did they call her that?”
“Because she was their aunt,
of course.”
“But if they were your cousins
she must have been their grand-
ma, too, mustn’t she?”
“Eh? Yes, I suppose you’re
right. I must be thinking of my
mother’s cousins—my second-
cousins.”
“Your first - cousins - once -
removed,” corrected his son.
“Have it your own way. Any-
how, whoever they were they
called Gran Aunt Charlotte, so
that must’ve been her name.”
“I know it was her name,”
said David patiently. “But what
I want is her surname 'before she
was married.”
“I’m afraid I don’t know,
son. It’s a long way back, you
know.”
“/ know my grandmothers’
maiden names —both grand-
mothers. And Mum knows
hers,”
Noyse felt that he was being
more-or-less put on the spot. He
dug deep into the recesses of his
memory, but without success. He
could find no name that seemed
rightly to belong to Charlotte.
“And Mum knows her grand-
mother’s name, too,” repeated
David.
“I’m not sur-
prised,” said Noyse.
“Women have
plenty of time for
discussing things like
that. They make
a hobby of it.
Perhaps she knows
my grandmother’s,
too.”
“Certainly. It was
Ferguson,” said Mrs.
Noyse, who had
been sitting on the
other side of the
fireplace during the discussion.
“Gosh, that’s right,” exclaimed
Noyse. “Charlotte Ferguson. I
remember now.”
“Are you sure it’s right?”
asked David anxiously.
“Yes, certain. That’s where
Joe and Peter Ferguson come
in. They’d be her brother’s
grandchildren, which -makes
them my.., ”
“Second - cousins,” supplied
David.
“Fancy forgetting
that name,” said
Noyse to his wife.
“Must be getting
old.”
“Charlotte
Ferguson. Gee,
thanks, Dad. An-
other one for my
tree.”
With which cryptic
comment he walked
out of the room.
6 he up to now?”
asked Noyse of his
spouse when the boy was out of
earshot.
“Something to do with family
history,” said Mrs. Noyse.
“He’s been pestering me all the
afternoon. It’s your turn now.”
A quarter of an hour later
David was back again.
“I’ve got your father,” he
said, “and your grandfather.
Could you tell me your great-
grandfather’s name?”
“On which side?” asked
Noyse, sparring for time.
“Your father’s.”
“My father’s father’s side or
my father’s rqother’s side?”
“Your father’s father’s side.
I’m doing the sire’s line.”
“What d’you mean, the sire’s
line?”
David flourished the sheet of
paper he was carrying. “I’m
working out my family-tree,” he
explained.
Noyse took the document. At
the foot of the page in bold
letters was printed David
Noyse. Above this the page
was divided by a series of hori-
zontal lines running right across
it. The sections thus formed
were subdivided by vertical lines,
so that the space immediately
above David’s name was split
into two compartments ; above
that, four, then eight, sixteen,
thirty-two, sixty-four and so on
to the top of the sheet. A red
line had been ruled down the
centre, and the left-hand side of
the page was marked Sire, the
right-hand. Dam.
. “Where did you get this idea?”
asked Noyse.
“From Phar Lap’s family-tree
in the Museum,” said David.
“See, there’s your side on the
left and Mummy’s on the right.
I’ve just put Charlotte Ferguson
in.”
“That’s all right for race-
horses,” said Noyse, “but I
didn’t know they did human
beings this way.”
His mind went back to school
history-books and tables of the
kings of England, “Aren’t you
supposed to put someone’s name
at the top, with an equals-mark
for whom he married, and then
sticks hanging down with their
children’s names on the end?”
Picturing the thing in his
mind’s-eye, he became quite
superior. “That’s how we used
to do it with the Stuart kings,”
he added, “and —er —John of
Gaunt.”
“Yes,” said David patiently.
“That’s all right if you know
all the names. But I’ve got to
start from me. When 1 get all
the places filled-in I’ll make it
into that sort.”
“How far back are you going?
To Julius Caesar?”
“No,” replied David regret-
fully, “I don’t think there’d be
any records going back that far.
I thought I’d try and get back to
Ere for a start. That’d be about
1290.”
“Ere? Who’s he?”
“Well, Granpa told me once
there was a Noyse at Bannock-
burn, I don’t know what his
Christian-name was, so I’m
calling him Ere for the time
being—after an ancient Scottish
king.”
“I see. And where does 1290
come in?”
“Well, the battle of Bannock-
burn was fought in 1314, so I'm
assuming he was about twenty-
four then. Do you think that’d
be too old for the Army in those
days?”
Noyse agreed that a bowman
or dirk-wielder of Robert
Bruce’s day would probably still
be of military age at twenty-
four. “But,” he said, “you’ll
have to dig up a lot of ancestors
by the time you get back to
Bannockburn. They’d run into
thousands.”
“One - million - -and - eighty-
thousand - five - hundred - and-
seventy-six,” his son informed
Mm. “That’s twenty genera-
tions, taking three to a century.”
“Heck! At that time there
can’t have been that many
people in the whole of Scotland,”
protested Noyse.
“I’ve checked the figures three
times,” said David complacently.
“They wouldn’t all have to be in
Scotland. Mummy’s side came
from England.”
“You conceited little blighter,”
said Noyse. “D’you mean to
tell me that in Robert Bruce’s
time the whole population of the
British Isles existed for no other
reason than to ultimately pro-
duce you?”
“Oh, not all of them,” replied
David. “There’d be some inter-
marriages, you know, That’d
cut the numbers down a bit. And
they wouldn’t only be being my
ancestors, you know. They’d
do other things like fighting
battles and”
“Watching spiders,” inter-
posed Mrs. Noyse, only to be
ignored by her menfolk.
“Just as well about those inter-
marriages,” continued David.
“I wouldn’t like to have to write
down one-million-and-eighty-
thousand - five - hundred - and-
seventy-six names. There’ll be
enough as it is.”
“Well, you’ve got fourteen so
far.”
“Fifteen, counting Ere.”
“Fifteen, then. That ought to
be enough for tonight. Hop off
to bed and don’t forget to kiss
your dam goodnight.”
AT intervals during the next
few weeks the genealogical
bug which had bitten the eldest
Noyse boy sank its nippers in
again with the result that he
pestered his father or mother,
whoever happened to be nearest
or seemed in the most approach-
able mood at the moment, for
further information of their
forebears
“He’s a confounded nuisance,”
said Noyse to his wife, “but I
don’t like discouraging a kid’s
hobby. And, after all, most of
us don’t take enough interest in
our ancestors. Take that Ban-
nockburn story. I remember
Dad always insisted that there
was a Noyse at Bannockburn,
but it never occurred to me to
(Continued on page 22)


“17th SECURITY LOAN
big factor in development
of All States”
,
■Am n
: JWf
says Mr, E, G, Wilson,
Chairman of the Associated Banks .
"The success of the 17th Security Loan is of vital importance
to every Australian because the money is urgently needed for
the development and improvement of our country.
"Government Loans are an essential part of our financial
structure,” Mr. Wilson continued. "They are anti-
inflationary because they divert the spending power from
unessentials to necessary works, thus contributing to a
balanced economy.
"At the present time there is a pressing need for money to
further the various State Governments’ programmes of
developmental works water conservation and irrigation,
transport facilities, electric power, schools, etc.
"Many of these important community projects have been
started, but cannot be completed without increasing
inflationary pressure, unless they are financed out of the
people’s savings. Thus the continued development and
productivity of the States arc bound up in the success of the
Loan, and it is up to every Australian who has savings, to
invest in the future of his country.
"Security Bonds are safe —they are backed by the resources
of Australia and are repayable in full on date of maturity.
"Every subscription in the Loan is a personal contribution
to a stable, sound and progressive Australia.”
THESE ARE THE BASIC INVESTMENT FACTS
ABOUT THE COMMONWEALTH (17th SECURITY) LOAN
AMOUNT SOUGHT: £77,000,000 in. new cash and in
conversions of Two per cent. Commonwealth Securities matur-
ing on April 15, 1953 (see below).
INTEREST RATES: Investors may select:
Commonwealth Bonds or
Inscribed Stock bearing
interest at
3%
PER ANNUM
issued at £99/10/- per cent.,
and maturing on Decem-
ber 15, 1955, or
Commonwealth Bonds or
Inscribed Stock bearing
interest at
4i%
PER ANNUM
issued at par, and maturing
on September 15, 1962.
LOAN PURPOSES: The 17 th Security Loan will
provide money for public works and services of the Common-
wealth and the States and for redemption of unconverted
maturing Two per cent, securities.
SUBSCRIPTIONS: Bonds for the 4\ per cent, issue are
available in denominations of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO.
Minimum subscription for the longer term is £lO of Bonds or
£lOO of Inscribed Stock. Investors, who already hold £lOO of
Stock in any loan, may subscribe £lO or any multiple of £lO
for additional Stock. Minimum subscription for the short
term is £l,OOO, either for Bonds or Inscribed Stock, with
higher amounts in multiples of £l,OOO.
INSTALMENTS: Subscribers may deposit 10 per cent.
and pay the balance in either one or three instalments by
August 1, 1953.
REPAYMENT: Repayment in full at maturity of face
value of Securities is guaranteed by the Commonwealth
Government.
INCOME TAX REBATE: For the period during which
no Income Tax is levied under the law of a State, a rebate
of Commonwealth taxation of 2/- in respect of each £1 of
interest from this Loan will be allowed in accordance with
the provisions of the Income Tax and Social Services Contri-
bution Assessment Act, 1936-1952.
WHERE TO APPLY; Any Bank, Savings Bank, Money
Order Post Office or Stockbroker will receive applications for
cash subscriptions or for conversions. I
CONVERSION:
Holders of £47,000,000 of Tvto per cent. Bonds and
Inscribed Stock which mature on April 15, 1953, are
invited to convert their securities into the 17th
Security Loan. Those who select Three per cent.
Bonds or Inscribed Stock will receive a cash payment
of 10/- per cent. The Two per cent, securities
affected are those issued in the Bth Security Loan
(September-October, 1949) and the 9th Security
Loan (March, 1950).
Invest
in the
Commonwealth
(17th Security) Loan


Here’s
A
s BETTER!
fs
BETTER with the
new Square Engines.
Vauxhall’s new square engines
give you more power with less engine wear , . .
better performance in every way. It’s a really
big story ... so big, you must get it fully from
your Vauxhall Dealer.
o
BETTER with
VAUXHALL’S
roomy comfort.
The new flush-sided body design makes Vauxhall
much roomier than ever before ... a capacious 5-6
seater, with a big, smoothly contoured boot, lock-
ing from inside the car, to take all your luggage.
df
BITTER with
VAUXHALL
styling.
It looks gloriously big, years ahead in grace and
beauty, with long, low lines and exceptional width.
Vauxhall will retain high styling and resale value
for years to come.
mi
BETTER with
VAUXHALL’S
Nation-wide service.
Wherever you live, or go, expert service by GMH
trained mechanics and genuine spare parts are
available from authorised Vauxhall Dealers. This
comprehensive service means quick and lasting
satisfaction,...
Which model for you?
The 15.63 h.p. OHV 4 cyl. WYVERN with
outstanding performance and petrol economy
3-4 m.p.g. better
than the pre-
vious model...
or the ‘big car’
6 cyl. OHV
VELOX with
23.44 h.p. that
gives you flash-
ing acceleration
and true top-
gear perform-
ance with a
new standard
of petrol con-
sumption.
Jk* as
Ask your dealer about the
GMAC Confidential Hire
Purchase Plan . . . and the
“Built - for - VauxhaU” Air-
chief Car Radio.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS -HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • m£bOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia.
VS3-32
ask how he knew or what the
old boy’s name was.”
“Ere,” prompted his wife.
“Ere, my foot,” returned
Noyse. “That’s only David’s
name for him. But my point is
that for the old man to tell me
about him there must have been
some record handed down in the
family, yet now it’s gone. If
more people had David’s idea
all those records would be kept.”
Mrs. Noyse agreed. “Aunt
Norah used to be our authority
on the family history. She had
them all tabbed, including
mother’s ancestress who married
the admiral and her great-great-
grandfather or something like
that, who rescued a French
countess from the guillotine and
married her.”
“Good on him,” congratulated
Noyse. “Would that be Sidney
Carton or the Scarlet Pimper-
nel?”
Don’t scoff! ” his wife re-
buked him. “I’m merely telling
you what Aunt Norah said.
After all, the French Revolution
wasn’t so very long ago. I’m
not trying to drag in the Battle
of Hastings, like some people.”
“Bannockburn, not Hastings.”
/T'RADUALLY the family-tree
burgeoned into leaf. Old
photograph-albums and dusty
books with inscriptions on the
fly-leaf helped to build up the
picture, and aunts, uncles and
cousins were co-opted by David
to amplify his parents’ meagre
information.
A subtle rivalry developed be-
tween Mr. and Mrs. Noyse as
sire and dam sides of the tree
took turn about in displaying
most fruit. When David came
home one day and announced
that he had found a record of
a Douglas Noyse having been a
Governor of a Canadian prov-
ihce Noyse affected nonchalance
and said he understood there
had been a branch of the family
that went to Canada. He had
never heard much about them,
but obviously this Douglas
would be one of the clan.
“Where shall I put him in?”
asked David. “Who was it that
went to Canada?”
“Well,” said Noyse, “let me
see. It was my grandfather that
came out here, 50...”
“No! Your great-grand-
father,” corrected the authority.
“See, here he is on the tree.”
“My great-grandfather, then.
Well, I suppose the one who
went to Canada would be his
brother.”
“Aren’t you sure?”
Noyse took the plunge. The
sire side of the tree was lagging
a little and could do with a leg-
up. “Sure,” he said. “Younger
brother. This Governor would
be his son.”
“More likely grandson,” said
David. “He was Governor only
thirty years ago. I’ll make him
a grandson and mark him
doubtful.”
Noyse was a little disap-
pointed at the classification, but
thought it better not to voice an
objection. Mrs. Noyse smiled
at her knitting. The previous
evening her part-French ancestry
had been given similar dubious
recognition on the tree, much to
her husband’s amusement. In
the privacy of their bedroom he
had made ponderously facetious
remarks about her “doubtful
ancestor.” Now he had one of
his own—and he had brought it
upon himself. Her admiral’s
wife had also figured in the
doubtful list for a few days, but
had been promoted to full ances-
torship on the evidence of an old
daguerrotype depicting a lady
with ringlets and a naval gentle-
man with a large telescope
tucked under one arm—hardly
strong enough evidence on which
to base a claim in Chancery, but
sound enough to satisfy an
eleven-year-old in search of his
ancestors.
Next find was also on the
sire’s side of the lineage ; it came
from a family Bible in the pos-
session of one of Noyse’s female
cousins and containing names
stretching back to 1780.
“That’s before the French
Revolution,” triumphed Noyse
to his wife, “Earlier than your
French princess.”
t Countess,” said Mrs. Noyse.
“Daughter of a count,”
amended David.
“Whatever she was, this
Catherine beats her,” insisted
Noyse, pointing to the earliest
name in the Bible. “Married in
1780, and she must have been
eighteen or twenty at the least
then.”
Mrs. Noyse sniffed. “None of
them are really Noyses,” she
said, “They’re all Gordons —
your mother’s people.”
“They’re just as much my
ancestors as that French dame
was yours.”
“Maybe, but they don’t bring
you any closer to Bannockburn.”
'T'O David, the compiler of the
1 family-tree, it didn’t matter
two hoots which side of the
family the discovered names
came from. They were
ancestors, and as such were
eligible for inclusion in his
records. His father, however,
was smarting a little at the Ban-
nockburn crack.
Noyse hadn’t realised how
interested he was f becoming in
David’s researches. Now that
the Gordon line had been traced
back to a Scotch lady of round
about 1780 and his wife was able
to flaunt a French ancestress
(doubtful) of about the same
period* he began to feel that it
was something of a slur upon his
name that no Noyse had so far
been found further back than
his great-grandfather, and that
even that gentleman’s existence
was rather hazy. During the
next few days he made some
inquiries, then he tentatively
broached the subject with his
son.
“That first Noyse who came
to Australia,” he said; “my
great-grandfather. You’ve got
him down, I suppose.”
“Donald Noyse—yes, he’s
down all right,” replied David.
“Haven’t got the year he was
born, though—or even the year
he came to Australia.”
“I might be able to put you on
fo that,” said his father. “A
fellow was telling me there’s a
place in the city where you can
find out that sort of thing,
They’ve got passenger-lists of the
early ships, and copies of the
parish-registers of the / English
counties. I don’t know whether
they’d have the Scottish ones,
but you could ask, if you’re
interested.”
“Gee, I’m interested, all
right,” said David. “Where do
I go?”
“Well, I suppose the first thing
to do is, to find out what ship lie
arrived in. Old Uncle George
might know.”
It wasn’t very easy to get
information out of Uncle
George. He was in his late
seventies and lived very much in
the past, but although that past
was peopled with such names as
Spofforth, Iredale and W. G.
Grace; General Buller and
Cronje; Alfred Deakin and
Edmund Barton; it didn’t go
back quite as far as the original
Donald Noyse—not to his
arrival in Sydney, that is. He
remembered him, of course, but
only as an old man.
“Fine old chap, he was. Took
me to my first Test match when
I was only a nipper.
“Ever hear him mention the
year he came to Australia, or
the name of the ship he came
in?” asked Noyse.
“Can’t say I did. No, that’d
be before my time.”
“Ever hear your father men-
tion it, or anyone else?”
“No.”
It seemed that they had draw
a blank, but Uncle Georg
memory was slowly getting in
gear.
“Wait a bit,” he said. “I
remember something about
ship. It was when Granpa too
me down to Circular Quay
see the mail-steamer Gra'ce
second team came out o
Ormuz, I think it was. The o
chap said something about :
being a bit different from t
ship he came out in.”
“Didn’t he mention h
name?”
Yes, that’s what I’m tryin
to remember. Wait a bit, I’v
got it. Royal something.”
“Royal Sovereign? Roya
Qeorge? Royal Oak?
prompted Noyse.
“No, and it wasn’t Royal Ta
That was William Lane’s shi
I’ve got it. Royal William
That’s it. Royal William. ‘A b
of an improvement on the Roya
William.’ That’s what he saic
And when I asked him what th
Royal William was he said sh
was the ship he came out in.”
“Good on you, Unc
George,” applauded Davie
“Did he say what year?”
“Not that time, but wait a bi
I’ve got a line on that, too. Now
tell me. What was the date o;
Queen Victoria’s Jubilee?”
“Eighteen-ninety-seven,” saic
Noyse.
“No, that must’ve been th
second one. I mean her firs
one, when I was only a littl
tacker.”
“That’d be 1887.”
“I suppose you’re right. There
was a great to-do. Firework
and processions and all that sor
of thing. And old Granpa usee
to teff us that it was his jubilee
as well as the Queen’s —because
he’d been fifty years in the
e:olony. I remember it well
Now, why couldn’t I think of
that before?”
“Goody! Royal William
1837,” exulted David. “Now
we’re right. Dad.”
“What’s it all about, any-
way?” asked Uncle George.
Noyse explained, not quite
truthfully, that David was
“writing a family history.”
“Good on you, lad,” said
Uncle .George. “Come and see
me when you get up to my time,
and I’ll tell you how Lord
Kitchener and your old Uncle
George beat the Boers.”
/~\N the following Saturday
morning David sallied into
town armed with Uncle George’s
information. He arrived home
from his expedition beaming
with triumph.
“Uncle George was right,” he
announced. “We traced Donald
Noyse and found he came from
Dundee.* The man said if I
write to the Provost of Dundee,
he’ll probably get someone to
look up the records for me, and
then we’ll be able to get
Donald’s mother and father and
that’ll be two more names for
the tree. And they might be able
to tell us lots more beside.”
“So he did come out in the
Royal William?” said Noyse.
“Yes, his name was there, all
right. And, gee, Dad, he must
have been a tough old chap.
Fancy, a highwayman! That’s
nearly as good as a bushranger.”
His voice thrilled with pride.
“What are you talking
about?” asked Noyse.
“Old Donald Noyse. My
great-great-grandfather.”
“What’s this nonsense you’re
burbling about highwaymen?”
“That’s what he was sent out
for.”
“Sent out?”
“Yes. The Royal William was
a convict ship. Donald was
transported for highway
robbery. Fourteen years, the list
said. I suppose by that time he
liked the place so much he
decided to stay here. Anyway,
I’m going to put a footnote
about him on the family-tree,
and then I’m going to write that
letter to the Provost of Dundee.”
David went to his own room,


Divorce Notice
TO LIONEL JACK MARTIN address un-
known.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
MARGARET MARY CATHERINE MAR-
TIN has commenced proceedings against
you in the Supreme Court of Western
Australia for divorce on the ground of
Desertion by you for a continuous period
of three years or more IF you desire to
defend such proceedings you must file
your' defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth within FORTY
clear days from the date of this publica-
tion In default of your so doing the cause
may proceed and the Court will pronounce
Judgment and make orders against you in
your absence.—Dated this 10th day of
March, 1953. —G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
FRED CURRAN, ESQ., of 87-38 Padbury
Buildings, Forrest Place, Perth, in the
State of Western Australia, Solicitor for
the Plaintifl.
Wketi tfoti want a
wafee Aw/ie ttte wutte/dat l&
m
flSSti
VX
™0(
v pl
fe-Vusabcr
rusaOer
Hk.. J
TRADE MARK
of Quality
For 44 years Crusader has been weav-
ing cloth that competes with the best
made anywhere in the World.
Using only Pure Australian Fleece
Wool, her prize-winning Worsted
Cloths have easily become the standard
of Quality throughout our land.
* You are cordially invited to inspect
the new 1952-53 range of Crusader
Suitings which are now available. Ask
your favourite tailor to show you his
attractive Crusader Pattern Book.
Every cloth is fully guaranteed never
to fade or shrink. Your tailor will
tell you Crusader Worsteds tailor well,
for they are the product of a Mill that
is proud of its Cloths.
So, when you want a good suit —a suit
you will want to wear because you
look your best in it, make sure your
material is Crusader—the Cloth that
has behind it 44 years of service and
satisfaction.
Crusader doth
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
CI-113
CRIPPLING RHEUMATIC PAINS
quickly eased with
TRADE MARK|
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
• During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to _ sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
. DOLCIN is non-toxic.
. DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
. DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
. 1,K)o!ooo!6oo tablets have been administered throughout
the world.
• DOLCIN is easy to take In tablet form.
. DOLCIN is obtainable from your chemist.
m
fICA
S CI*
11
Jgff S
tO*
f £f <
«OTtt £
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
doicin
Informative literature on Dolda
will be sent on request to Dolcia
(Australia) «y. Ltd- Box 1552,
G.P.0., Sydney.
whence his voice could be heard
passing on the great news to his
brothers.
Noyse didn’t seem as pleased
as might have been expected.
“So that’s the story,” he said
to his spouse. “No wonder I
never heard anything about it.
Mind you, I don’t believe the
highwayman part of it. More
likely poaching or trespass.
Most of the convicts were sent
out for trivial offences. Any-
thing more serious than pinching
a handkerchief and you got
hanged in those days. Old
Donald probably bagged some-
one’s grouse or walked across
somebody’s paddock.”
“Getting his own back for
what happened at Bannock-
burn?” suggested Mrs. Noyse.
“The Scots won Bannock-
burn.”
“Well, I’m sure no one
begrudged them that, but, any-
way, you’ve no need to be
ashamed ...”
“Who’s ashamed? Let me
tell you Donald was every bit as
good as that French dame of
yours. If everyone had had their
rights she’d have had her head
cut off.”
“There’s no need to be insult-
ing,” said Mrs. Noyse. “Any-
way, I’ve always had a soft spot
for highwaymen. Quite
romantic, you know.”
“Never mind about that,”
said Noyse. “You just leave my
ancestors alone, dam.”
“All right, sire,” replied Mrs.
Noyse.
A/TEANTIME Mrs. Noyse had
not been neglecting her own
side of the tree. Like her
husband she had encountered
shipping trouble. She knew that
her maternal grandfather, Alfred
Boundy, had arrived in Australia
as a young man, but she didn’t
know just when. She knew, too,
there were distant relations liv-
ing in Bedfordshire, though she
had never been sure what the
exact degree of kinship was.
An uncle had visited them
while on leave in England dur-
ing the First War ; and from her
mother and aunts Mrs. Noyse
had inherited the custom of
referring to them as Cousin
Nellie and Cousin Hester. When
the Food for Britain scheme
started she had bethought herself
of them and had sent occasional
food parcels. The two old
ladies had been duly grateful,
and from time to time Mjrs,
Noyse received a letter from
one or other of them listing the
family ailments and the gossip
of the village in which they lived.
In response to a request for
enlightenment they now
weighed-in with a bundle of
sprigs for the family-tree. Noyse
noticed the envelope with the
English stamp when he arrived
home that evening.
“Hello,” he said. “More news
from Bedfordshire. How’s the
lumbago this year?”
Mrs. Noyse’s reply was just a
little off-hand. “Oh, nothing
much in it,” she said, presumably
referring to the letter, not the
lumbago. But Noyse had
already unfolded the letter and
was beginning to read.
“Ho! ” he said presently, fol-
lowing it up a moment later
with “Hum!”
“You needn’t look at me like
that,” protested his spouse.
“After all, it happened nearly a
hundred years ago. And
needn’t laugh like that, you
beast! ”
To give Noyse his due, he was
not laughing, though it is prob-
able that he had allowed some
slight trace of amusement to
creep on to his face. For some
reason or other he was thinking
of his great-grandfather Donald.
“Have you shown it to David
yet?” he asked.
“Good heavens, no. I
couldn’t.”
“Why not?”
“Well, because . . . ooh!”
“What’s the matter?”
“I’ve just remembered. I told
him I’d written to Cousin Hester.
He’ll be expecting to hear some-
thing,”
“Let him read it,” said Noyse.
“He won’t hold it against you.
Very broadminded kid, David.”
Cousin Hester had done her
duty nobly, detailing the Bed-
fordshire ancestors from the time
the founder of the family, a
successful linen draper, had
bought property there in the
reign of George I. “He’s the
winner so far,” said Noyse;
“not counting Ere.” Followed
several generations, with their
majriages and their offspring,
then:
That brings us to Millie, our
grandmother and your great-
grandmother. Alfred Boundy,
as you of course know, was a
natural child of Millie’s. They
found out too late that Millie's
betrayer had a wife already.
When Alfred was about three
years old Millie married our
grandfather, and Alfred grew up
with our father and the other
children of that marriage.
Grandfather never made any
distinction between them, but
when Alfred was twenty-one he
went out to Australia. He only
intended to stay for a couple of
years, but he met your grand-
mother and settled down there.
NOYSE kept the letter till the
younger children had gone to
bed, then he tossed it over to
David with the remark “Here’s
something for your tree.”
David read excitely, then
looked up with some puzzlement.
“What’s a natural child?” he
asked.
Mrs. Noyse knitted furiously
while Noyse replied that the term
meant a child whose parents
were not married.
“I see,” said David, looking
back at the letter again. Then,
rather anxiously, he asked: “Is
there anything wrong with it?”
Noyse admitted that in polite
society the practice of being
born out of wedlock was more
or less frowned upon.
“No, I don’t mean that,”
replied his son. “I mean the
child. Would it be all right? I
mean —er —would it have the
right number of arms and legs
and all that?”
Noyse set his mind at rest on
that score.
“Good!” said the ancestor-
seeker, and he carried the letter
off to his room.
“Quite easy, you see,” said
Noyse to his wife, who, woman-
like, asked him what he was talk-
ing about and said she had
intended to give the boy the
letter all the time.
An hour later David looked
in again on the way to bed. His
eyes were glowing.
“Gee!” he said. “Right back
to George the First’s time! That
puts you ahead again, Mum.”
Mrs. Noyse smiled, and Noyse
restrained an impulse to bring
Ere into the conversation.
“Don’t worry about that,” he
said. “The Sire’ll catch up
; again before long.”
WHEN Noyse was taking his
* * customary last look at the
youngsters before turning in, he
saw the family-tree on the table
beside David’s bed. He glanced
at the latest entries, then
hastened into Mrs. Noyse’s bed-
room.
“Take a peek at this/’ he told
her.
All the information from Bed-
fordshire had been added to the
tree, and there was a red-ink
“dagger” alongside Alfred
Boundy’s name. At the foot of
the sheet, below the footnote
relating to old Convict Donald,
there was a new footnote. It
read:
Note: t Denotes natural
child. All other persons on this,
tree are unnatural children.


mSiS^JCA-7o
%
ei»c.
we*
m
m
w
m
£
- V*
am
m
-^x
■
■ -
t'- ( _
/«' pi
»-r
s*lJ
%
%
1:
•■' : i^.v r}
■
aSS2 s
k«fcX
S?r
<-<
&
<: '
»':.'■ .V-:
5*
■:i ' % m
y &■»
-
- *
*u
m
v
■
*
H
- «
. ■
ii
la
#■-
r %
■*
r
l-
™V
> >:
&& ■•
MMi
__
Donated for a week so that the terrific job ot
space-clearing should be done in the shortest possible
time, the rugged TCA.7O did an amazing job for the new
Spastic Centre at French’s Forest. You, too, can depend on the
TCA.7O to take the heaviest work, the longest, most gruelling
working hours with amazing fuel economy and very little
down time.
4 cylinder, Alfa Romeo direct
injection diesel engine, max.
drawbar horsepower, 62 H.P.
at 1,600 R.P.M. Fuel con-
sumption 1.6 gallons per hour.
Tank capacity 32 gallons. Fuel
pressure, dry sump lubrication.
5 forward speeds and reverse.
Inertia starting.
saoiovm oohvsnv
Distributors —
DOMINION
MOTORS, 52 William Street,
Sydney. MA 9017.
& DUREAU, LTD., Tractor Division,
Graham btreet, Port Melbourne. MX 2171.
Sole Factory Representatives for Australia ;—
MATERIAL HANDLING PTY,, LTD., 61-63
Wentworth Avenue, Sydney, N.S.W. MA 9141.
HUDSON TAYLOR & CO., 006 Murray Street,
Perth. B 7908.
CLYDE MOTORS, 165 Brunswick Street,
Fortitude Valley, Brisbane. L 4237.
POWER PLANT CO., 100 Currie Street, Adelaide. LA 2111.
Missing Friends
MEDH URST. —If this should come to the
notice of JAMES JOSEPH MEDHURST,
formerly of Armidale, N.S.W. (sometimes
known as McKenzie or McDonald) or
anyone knowing his address, please com-
municate with A. W. SIMPSON & CO.,
Solicitors, Armidale, when something of
advantage to J. J. Medhurst will be fur-
nished.
Would GEORGE GALWAY LAURENCE
O’CONNELL, formerly of Brunswick and
Heidelberg, but now of parts unknown,
or anyone knowing his whereabouts, please
communicate with MESSRS. JONES &
KENNEDY, Solicitors, of 213 Nicholson
Street. Footaeray ‘i
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of recitation beginning
“Speaking in general, I have found
all roads good.”—5472.
To buy old photographs and news-
paper accounts of the Burns-Johnson
fight in Sydney in 1908. —5471.
Bulletin staff man, wife and two
children, wants furnished fiat or cot-
tage, Sydney, waterside suburb pre-
ferred.—5470.
To borrow copies of Education for
Parenthood (1945), You and Your
Children (1945), The Young Child
and His Parents (1947), Talks to
Parents (1947), Emotional Problems
of Childhood (1948), all by Zoe
Benjamin.—5469.
Words and music of song contain-
ing the line “We’ll go no more
a’roaming, tho’ the night was made
for love.” —5468.
Does Anybody Know?
Origin of the phrase “The man
that rode the bull through Wagga”?
—5467.
Information Sought
Briefly and generally, what is
English law regarding lost property?
If anything is lost the owner can
claim it at any time from anyone he
sees in possession of it; the one who
finds the article is entitled to it next
after the owner provided he comes
upon it in a public place. But should
the finder keep the property when he
knows the owner he is guilty of theft.
So, too, is the man who discovers a
valuable brooch while digging in
another man’s garden and fails to
give it up; for the owner of private
land is entitled to all found on it.
But the mere keeping of a lost article
in hope of getting a reward for giving
it up, though the owner be known,
does not amount to theft, and there
is no obligation on the finder of lost
property to incur expense in advertis-
ing for the owner.
* * * *
What were some of the explorations
carried out by David Lindsay ?
He was in the South Australian
Government service as surveyor (1873-
82), and explored Arnhem Land
(N.T.) for the Government in 1883.
He conducted exploration in 1885-86
at his own expense from Dalhousie
Springs, Overland Telegraph line and
Queensland border to Port McArthur,
Gulf of Carpentaria, and reported on
mineral-bearing areas in Mac Donnell
Ranges, He explored and prospected
Central Australia in 1888, and found
the first payable mica discovered in
Australia. In 1891 he conducted the
Elder Scientific Exploration Expedi-
tion to complete the filling-up of the
blank spaces on the map of Aus-
tralia, and reported the existence of
auriferous country 120 miles east of
Southern Cross (country which the
following year became famous
throughout the world as Coolgardie)
and around Lake Darlot.
Brief Answers
E.L.: The Staffordshire bull-terrier
differs from the modern bull-terrier
in several ways, and is a representa-
tive of the original fighting breed.
Dogs weigh from 281 b. to 341 b. The
head is short and deep, the neck
thick and muscular, the chest wide
and deep and the hindquarters light,
but strong. The coat may be any
shade of red, fawn, black or brindle,
with or without white markings. The
breed is unexcelled as a guard....
R.W.: The Spastic Centre at Mosman
(Sydney) was established in 1945 for
the care and training of children
suffering from infantile cerebral palsy.
Therapeutic treatment and training in
ordinary school-subjects are provided,
and four teachers are supplied by the
Department of Education. Transport
between home and the centre is pro-
vided by the institution. The centre
is supported chiefly by public dona-
tions F. 8.; Mrs. Ernestine Hill,
author of My Love Must Wait, wrote
a good deal of verse when young before
turning to prose. Some of this verse,
over her maiden-name of Ernestine
Hemmings, appeared in The Bulletin.
. ...M.T.: The large cloth edition
of Phil May in Australia, published
by The Bulletin in 1904, sells in
Sydney second-hand bookshops for
£2 10s W. 8.: The South Pacific
Commission is an advisory and con-
sultative body set up by the six
Governments responsible for the
administration of island territories in
the South Pacific region. Its purpose
is to recommend to the member-
Governments means for promoting
the well-being of the people of these
territories. It is concerned with
social, economic and health matters.
Its headquarters are at Noumea, New
Caledonia... .F.McG.: It was Oscar
Wilde who said: “The English
country gentleman galloping after a
fox—the unspeakable in full pursuit
of the uneatable” K.P.: James
Edmond’s short story “A Journalist
and Two Bears” was first published in
The Bulletin of December 13, 1906,
and reprinted in the issue of February
1, 1950... .1.M.8.: (1) We do not
know of any special significance attach-
ing to pennies minted in 1940 or that
they have any special value. (2) The
present official buying-price for a full-
weight half-sovereign is £1 16s. each.
M.G.: Henry Lawson’s short
story “A Child in the Dark and a
Foreign Father” appeared in The
Bulletin of December 13, 1902....
S.O’D.: Write to Mr. R. G. Howarth,
Dept, of English, the University of
Sydney, Sydney FJP.: Alexander
Selkirk was a Scottish sailor, born
at Largos, Fifeshire, in 1676. He
first went to sea when he was 19,
and in 1704 sailed x with Thomas
Stradling, who, quarrelling with
Selkirk, landed him on the unin-
habited island of Juan Fernandez,
from which he was rescued after
five years by Capt. Woodes Rogers,
R.N., afterwards Governor of the
Bahamas. Selkirk’s adventures in-
spired Defoe with the idea of Robin-
son Crusoe, the scene of which story,
however, is laid in Tobago M.A.:
Write Registrar, University of Sydney,
City-road, Chippendale L .R.T.:
“A Ballad of Bloodthirsty Bessie” by
Ronald McCuaig appeared in The
Bulletin of September 19, 1951.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
S.R.: What gave you the impres-
sion that we would like “an exciting
narrative based on an episode in the
early life of Napoleon”? .... W.A.A.:
It missed by several lengths H.D.:
A feeble piece of work D JS.K.:
We read it to the bitter end, but
never discovered what all the hooray-
ing was about L.E.: It should
have crossed the Tasman Sea by now.
Something genuine in
them, but they’re blunted by a facile
and inattentive technique: e.g., the
use of medieval imagery such as
“battlements” and “guerdon” or the
redundance in the rhyming of
“strand” with “sand”... .G.C.: Read
some contemporary Australian poetry,
and don’t use “doth” D.F.M.:
Try a women’s paper C.1.D.:
But who is Blinkers? B.McL.:
They sound as if you might have
something to say if you didn’t keep
asking Mr. Eliot to say it for you.
. ...M.C.S.: Ah, those were the
days:—
THE GOOD OLD DAYS.
I remember Bondi back in Eighteen
Ninety Two,
The scattered population, the steam trams
were running through—
Just the engine and one carriage along
a single track ;
If you missed it going down, you could
catch it coming back.
They ran the service hourly, the timetable
suited us ;
If you failed to hail the driver you could
always catch the bus—
A double-decker turnout, with four horses
in a shaft,
Ten yards of whip from tip to tip, it
reached both fore and aft.
It wasn’t kerbed and guttered, the roads
were cobblestoned,
They classed it outer-suburb, and called it
Struggletown.
The Pub was at the terminus at Tama-
rama Bay;
You walked along the sleepers or blue-
metal all the way.
Land was quoted by the acre, you could
buy it for a quid
By going to the land-sales, and giving
them your bid.
It was right beside the terminus adjoining
Bondi Beach
On the old O’Brien Estate, gas and water
within reach.
No, you wouldn’t see them surfing any
morning after six;
Mixed bathing wasn’t heard of as the
sexes didn’t mix.
“Two Up” was the pastime indulged in
by the “Push”
On both sides of the tramline when Bondi
was virgin bush.
If you met a lonely horseman going home
along the track
It was probably “The Hangman” or it
could be “Bondi Jack”
Or perhaps the old lamplighter or the
policeman on his bay;
You would greet him with good evening
and continue on your way.
In the depression of the ’Nineties men
worked on Tucker Hill,
Their wives queued up for rations the
inner man to fill;
Supplemented it by' fishing, got ovsters
from the rocks,
With rabbits, goats, and watercress they
lived like fighting-cocks.
They had lots in common, those people
down “The Slope” ;
To overcome their problems they just had
to learn to cope.
When bushflres swept through all fought
the blaze—
It was team-work at Bondi in the good
old days.
... . D.D.T.: Have a look at the
rustic narratives of Edward Arlington
Robinson ; and learn to condense.
. ...R.S. : If you are interested in
weeds write about them without tag-
ging a moral on at the end....M.5.:
“Eternity” and “Destruction” are very
large subjects A.P.D.: Tolerable
reflections, but hardly up to the
music H.G.: Some nice bits in
“Eastern Whipbird,” but much too
much of it... .M.M.: All light-
weights. .. .N.G.D.: The best bits
are the central stanza of “The Moun-
tain” and, in its entirety, though the
technique’s too thin, “The Lost
World”... .E.D.8.A.: “My verses do
rhyme, but are they too ordinary?”
Yes C.H.:
I want to write one perfect line
Exultant, rapturous, divine.
Climb off your high horse and you
Anight be able to 8.W.G.: “The
Estrangement” got a second reading.
W.H.R.: Both have some vitality,
but read jerkily—an impression per-
haps heightened by the difficulty
of your handwriting S.M.E.:
“Simon” extraordinarily incoherent.
- ...S.C.R.: Byron wrote most of
“The Blue Sea” for y0u....T.8.:
Those wattles have blossomed and
those kangaroos bounded in 50,00(1
patriotic odes and anthems, all
equally estimable and intolerable..%.
A.J.C.: “The Candidate” not elected.


Australian Historical Sketches
Parliament
and Its Privileges
By M. H. ELLIS
Anybody who has had
much to do with Parlia-
ments over the past
generation is struck by the
extent of their decline as an
influence on legislation. Govern-
ment by junta and by civil-
service department is rapidly
taking their place. In fact, some
of them are in a condition in
which it might almost appear at
first sight that they are dead but
won’t lie down.
The process is in operation
everywhere. Lord Hewart, Lord
Chief Justice, first called atten-
tion to it in England 25 years
ago in his The New Despotism.
And Professor G. W. Keeton,
Professor of English Law at
University College, London, has
added a complement in his The
Passing of Parliament, in which
he shows the sad inroads that
have been made and, with grow-
ing rapidity, are still being made
upon the preserves of Parlia-
mentary government by what
Lord Hewart called “the petty
despots of Whitehall.”
As far back as 1929 a com-
mittee on Ministers’ powers was
set-up in England ; but it seemed
to find itself buried in the maze
of complexities which surround
the making of laws by Ministers
under powers delegated to them
carelessly and wholesale by
Parliament. It does not seem the
regular practice any more for
people to be even told what the
law is when it is made as a regu-
lation or by-law by some poten-
tate authorised by Parliament;
and the system under which
Parliament was supreme and
omnipotent and the Rule of Law
(which meant that everybody,
high or low, must answer for his
acts before the ordinary courts,
according to ordinary law) is
almost dead.
The party political executives,
the caucuses of the parties and
the Ministries have become the
real Parliaments. The Houses of
Parliament themselves. State and
Federal, for all the noise and
dissension of their debates, have
become mere registering-
machines, ' but it is a peculiar
feature of their case that the
more automatic they become in
delegating statutory authority to
the will of Governments and
parties, and the less they serve
their purposes as the electors’
representatives, the fatter become
their perquisites and the more
tenacious they become of their
“privileges,” which they have
come to take to themselves as
personal attributes, instead of
regarding them in their true light
as something with which they
are invested for the protection
of their electors only when
engaged in their Parliamentary
duties.
This, though it seems at first
a paradox, is not so. Every
owner of a complicated machine
takes care to keep it well oiled.
And Governments —like their
followers —are always solicitous
to see that the Parliamentary
machine is that way, even though
sometimes the oiling seems to be
achieved by unconstitutional
means, as in the case of Parlia-
mentary salaries paid out of
Crown revenues in Canberra to
Whips and Leaders of the
Opposition, and pensions, for
which it seems hard to find a
vestige of authority in the Con-
stitution, paid to members who
have retired.
The principle on which these
things appear to be provided is
that if everybody agrees in Par-
liament it is all right, law or no
law. Public opinion, of course,
is dead as far as politics is
concerned, except on matters
which affect the comfort of the
Press-gallery or racehorses it
was a sensation when the
Speaker of the Commonwealth
Parliament removed a picture of
Phar Lap which had been put
up in a part of the House with-
out authority, but his remarks
the other day on the manner in
which tens of millions of pounds
are blindly voted and illegally
spent under the present system
of Parliamentary appropriations
made little or no stir. All parties
are involved in what is
happening.
One of the best examples of
the usurpation of privileges and
perquisites by Australian Parlia-
ments, and of the blindness of
public opinion to what is going
on, was in the “waiving of the
privileges” of the N. S. Wales
Parliament to allow evidence to
be given of what has or has not
taken place in or near Sydney
Parliament House in connection
with the Doyle affair.
Briefly, the allegations so far
to be inquired into are that a
man named Doyle was allowed
to park his car in a yard attached
to Parliament House for the con-
venience of members; that he
had business associations with a
Minister of the Crown and
others in no way connected with
the proceedings of Parliament;
that he used rooms at Parliament
House in which to do his busi-
ness, and telephones in Parlia-
ment House as well. These
matters may or may not be true,
but, anyway, they have nothing
to do with any Parliamentary
proceeding.
• Yet Government and Liberal-
Country - party leaders all
dilated on the serious and
magnanimous step which was
being taken in divesting witnesses
of privilege and allowing them
to give evidence of what took
place in the sacred rabbit-warren
in Macquarie-street which is
politely called a Parliament
House.
The truth is that there does
not appear to be a vestige of
privilege to be given away in
connection with any of the
matters which are to be inquired
into, whether in a criminal or
bankruptcy court or before the
commission which will be held
before a District Court judge—
whose powers of inquiry will be
very limited by reason of his
status as a judge.
Privilege, as defined in a
recent controversy in which
many leading authorities in
England took part, is an exemp-
tion from some duty, obligation,
attendance or liability to which
ordinary persons are subject. A
member of Parliament is given
this exemption only for the pur-
poses of carrying out his duties
in the proceedings of Parliament.
It is given him not to protect
himself as a kind of demigod,
but so that he may fearlessly do
his duty by the electors and
guard himself against interfer-
ence or pressure by the executive
and outsiders, and that he may
be able to obey the orders of
Parliament for his attendance at
sittings.
But privilege is certainly not
fully used for these purposes
these days. No member in Can-
berra ever complains, as he
would have a right to do under
privilege, when an outside
executive threatens him with
expulsion if he does not speak
or vote in a certain way or if the
party Whips try to prevent him
from speaking at all on a matter
in which he disagrees t with
caucus. Indeed, there is a sort
of abject tendency to agree that
these are not matters of
privilege.
But at the same time every-
thing is done to maintain the
conception that Parliament
House is a sort of sanctuary in
which ordinary law does not run
and the awful majesty of the
Parliament alone prevails, and in
which there must be no inquiry
unless by express permission of
the Legislature.
This is sheer rubbish. Privilege
has very wide extension when
it applies to actual Parliamentary
proceedings. It has none where
such proceedings are not
involved. Parliament House and
its yards are not a sacred grove
beyond the ambit of the law
save by permission of Parlia-
ment.
Indeed, normally it is not
claimed in N. S. Wales that they
are so. When somebody tres-
passes or commits a crime on the
premises, as occasionally
happens, he is, as a matter of
course, taken up and brought
before a court by the officers in
charge and witnesses are
summoned from the House to
give evidence against him.
Except when Parliament is in
session any clerk of the Houses
can be summoned to give
evidence without by-your-leave;
and so can any member of Par-
liament not involved in Parlia-
mentary proceedings at the time
of the hearing.
Parliamentary proceedings
include both the preliminaries
of the proceedings and the after-
maths, but they , would not
include the sale of shares or the
carrying -on of real - estate or
moneylending business or the
parking of cars by strangers, or
even Ministerial business, on
Parliamentary premises.
It is a breach of privilege to
hinder a member in his progress
to Parliament or in having full
communication with his electors
for the purpose of Parliamentary
proceedings. All his acts in the
course of asking questions, mov-
ing motions, speaking to bills,
voting, etc., are done under
privilege. Anything he does in
the course of such proceedings
and in coming to and going from
Parliament to take part in them
is certainly privileged,, even if he
goes the length—which Heaven
forbid should happen —of tear-
ing the upholstery with his teeth
or heaving a book at the head of
Mr. Cahill during the course of
his speeches.
For such exhibitions in the
course of Parliamentary proceed-
ings only the House can deal
with him, either by its own
authority or by ordering his
prosecution.
Erskine May is the great
authority whose editions guide
every Speaker of a British-
speaking Parliament and who
sets out the niceties of privilege,
which are very much the same in
every Legislature, and even in
the Houses of the United States.
Practice is so universal that for
the guidance of British Parlia-
ments he quotes Canadian and
American precedents as well as
those of England, the mother of
the system.
He quotes a decision that it
“is no defence at common law
that defamatory statements have
been published by order of Par-
liament.” A member’s speech
when it appears in the official
report of debates is privileged
as part of proceedings. But a
member’s speech separated from
the rest of the debates and pub-
lished by himself, or sent by
himself to a newspaper for his
own purposes, has been held in
England not to be privileged
and the member can be sued for
libel in it.
A Parliamentary paper printed
for the use of the House in its
proceedings is privileged; but
the same paper circulated outside
for other purposes does not
necessarily carry privilege unless
it has special statutory or other
cover which gives it a privilege
of its own.
A member in the course of
actual proceedings who reflects
on somebody or something is
protected. A member who meets
another member in the passages
of the House, or perhaps even
in the chamber when the House
is not in session, and, in course
of a discussion on the merits of
Roving Roger, the famous grey-
hound, calls his Parliamentary
brother by an opprobrious name
and pushes him in the face
seems to be naked to the pro-
ceedings of ordinary law.
Erskine May says in the 15th
edition of his Parliamentary
Practice (pp. 63-64):
What is done or said by an in-
dividual member [of Parliament]
becomes entitled to protection when
It forms part of the proceedings of
the House in its technical sense, i.e.,
the formal transaction of business
with the Speaker in the chair or in
a “properly constituted committee
....But it does not follow that
everything that is said or done with-
in the Chamber during the transac-
tion of business forms part of the
proceedings of Parliament. Particu-
lar words or acts may be entirely
unrelated to any business which is
in course of transaction, or is in
more general use before the House
as having been ordered to come
before it in due course....ln the
view of the Select Committee on the
Official Secrets Acts “a casual con-
versation in the House cannot be
said to be a proceeding in Parlia-
ment and a member who discloses
information in the course of such a
conversation would n0t.... be pro-
tected by privilege, though it might
be a question whether evidence
necessary to secure his conviction
would be given without the permis-
sion of the House.’-’
This referred, of course, to
something which happened in
the Chamber itself while the
House was actually transacting
business. But something which
happens outside the Chamber
when the House is not transact-
ing business, or in a yard used
for parking by members and
their friends, or in a Minister’s
room (which certainly is not a
place of Parliamentary privilege
but an executive office), and
which has no relation whatever
to the transaction of Parlia-
mentary business, seems to be
no more privileged than any-
thing that happens in the
Domain or a private house.
It is not contempt to subpoena
officers to give evidence about it
unless the House is sitting and
it would interfere with their
duties. It is not contempt for the
courts to deal with it and to call
members as witnesses to any
illegal proceeding or crime.
Anybody who assaults a visitor
or murders the janitor within
Parliament House is just as
amenable to the law, without the
permission of Messrs. Cahill,
Bruxner and Treatt, as if he used
his axe on the footpath in
Macquarie-street, unless he does
it as part of the proceedings of
a House. Let us take three
supposititious cases as clinical
examples;
Case No. 1
Parliament is debating the second
reading of an Anti-Communist Bill.
The division bells ring. A member
taking the air in Macquarie-street
hears them and rushes boldly to do
his duty. A group of Communists
impede him, determined that he shall
not get there in time to vote.
They have obviously com-
mitted a breach of privilege, and
it is a matter for Parliament to
deal with.
CaSe No. 2
Two members are taking the air
in Parliament yard on an out-of-
session evening when they see a
burglar climbing through a Mini-
sterial window in Parliament House.
Their loud yell brings a policeman,
who follows the cracksman up the
wail. The two M.lj.A.s or M.P.s
(though portly) arrive in the room
at the same instant as the constable,
by a more conventional route, and
see the arrest and what takes place
connected with it.
Do Messrs. Cahill,' Treatt and
Bruxner seriously argue that
Parliament will have to waive
privilege for the two members
and/or others before they can
give evidence of what transpired
within the sacred precincts?
Case No. 3
A citizen has gone to Parliament
House to see a member about a dog,
and in a passage or member’s room
where they forgather an altercation
ensues and the M.P. plugs the visi-
tor or vice versa.
Surely it cannot be argued
again that proceedings can only
be taken with the express per-
mission of Parliament and after
the waiving of privilege.
In the Doyle case the points at
issue are even more clearly
accentuated than in these
instances by the fact that some
of the events allegedly took place
not only while Parliament was
not in session, but when it was
dissolved and there was no de
facto member of it capable of
performing Parliamentary duties
or taking part in the proceedings
of Parliament, which did not
exist and could not be called
together until the issue of the
new writs.
Some people may ask whether
Parliament cannot extend its
privileges. Australian State Par-
liaments derive their powers
from Section 9 of the Bill of
Rights and the English Common
Law of Parliament. Erskine
May writes of their position that
although either House may ex-
pound the law of Parliament,
and vindicate its own privileges,
“it is agreed that no new privi-
lege can be created.”
Cafe Poem
It was a wet night in sunny Sydney
(I would prefer not to write a serious poem).
She was sitting at the table, her head in her hand,
Her hand in her lap.
And I started to laugh, till I guessed that the trap
Was baited with laughter.
It was a ca-cafe as cold as sunny Sydney
(I would prefer not to remember a serious poem).
She was thinking that cities would never understand,
And standing my cup
On the table in front of her, laughing made up
A journey by water.
It was a cup as cracked as any in Sydney
(I would prefer not to live through a serious poem).
She was saying the dirt interfered with the tea-leaves,
Was leaving the shop
And not saying anything; I couldn’t say stop
And only mean later.
It was a scene as silly as any in Sydney
(I would prefer not to tell you a serious poem)
She was saying nothing: I pretended to watch;
Was watching the spoon drip—
Anything but the way she trembled at the lip
As she turned to saunter
From this real
But not very state-of-the-worldish
Poem.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


No. 2 of a Series
Mm who
wake Gapstm
m mm
mm
—The Dependable Tobacco
From the storages, cases of individual leaf for
Capstan’s own blend” are received into the
factory, opened, checked by Mr. Alf Kay, and
then weighed under the supervision of Her
Majesty’s Customs Officers. The bales of leaf
are then despatched to the blending department
and it is at this point that Capstan Tobacco leaf
starts upon its manufacturing journey.
Subsequent advertisements will briefly explain
other interesting phases in the development of
Capstan Tobacco—watch for them.
w ßlended Better 99
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACCO
981 D. 11-52
J&l:
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO JOHN MITCHELL URQUHART. —
TAKE NOTICE that ADELEEN
URQUHART has filed a petition for
divorce No. 4217 of 1951 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, King Street, Sydney, by 2nd June,
1953, and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from H, E. DALE,
Solicitor, of 10 • Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN ARTHUR SCHUBERG, late of
Drummoyne. TAKE NOTICE that
LORNA SCHUBERG has filed a Petition
for Divorce in suit No. 662 of 1953 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for 8 years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney by the Bth June
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from N. V. MENLOVE,
Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar,
SPORTING NOTIONS
betting market. Apart from the
fact that neither of the Cup
fancies has been proved at two
miles, both were beaten in their
latest engagements, which isn’t
a strong pointer to Cup hopes.
However, taking the view of the
experts, both Carioca and
Friendly Feeling were not ridden
with the utmost judgment in
their engagements. W. Cook
(Carioca) was outsmarted by
George Moore on Tarien in the
Rawson Stakes, while Noel Mc-
Growdie covered far too much
ground on Friendly Feeling in
the Rosehill Cup. Cook was
pocketed at a vital stage, which
shouldn’t have happened in a
field of four.
Tarien carried 8.11 in the
Rawson Stakes and drops to
7.10 in the Doncaster, which
probably is the main factor when
assessing her prospects in the
mile ; but others also come down
on the handicaps they have
lately carried. High Law didn’t
please his Doncaster backers by
his failure in the Quality Handi-
cap at Rosehill, nor did Bob
Cherry, last in the Rawson
Stakes. Raconteur, from Perth,
and a champion in his own State,
momentarily headed the field at
the home turn in the Quality,
but he dropped back to eighth
place at the finish, showing no
dash in the concluding stages. He
has 11b. less in the mile, but has
dropped rapidly out of favor
after being one of the early picks.
Melbourne stayer Welkin Sun,
who will have strong backing for
the Cup, has won over the
distance and has thrived since
coming to Sydney. It wouldn’t
surprise should he come right
into the Cup picture.
Maynard, winner of the Rose-
hill Cup, might prove a new
Raciijg at Warwick Farm this
coming Saturday evidently is not
expected to throw any additional
light on prospects for the Don-
caster or Sydney Cup. Prices
offered about the favored horses
would make you think both
“legs” of the double had already
been won, by Tarien (Doncaster),
and Carioca (Cup).
On figures Tarien seems next-
door to a certainty for the mile,
but there will nevertheless be a
representative line-up.
Carioca was beaten by Tarien
at weight-for-age in the Rosehill
Rawson Stakes on Saturday, but
that’s a race notorious for
surprise results. Carioca was hot
favorite at 9 to 4 on, while
Tarien was an uneasy third-
favorite at 8 to 1. The price on
offer about the Tarien-Carioca
double is at a record low, but
should Carioca not come through
his next engagement—most likely
the mile-and-a-half Autumn
Stakes—with flying colors his
Cup price will quickly stretch.
• • • •
Not many winners of the
Rawson Stakes have contested
the Doncaster, so Tarien could
land an unusual double. She
will have strong opposition from
New Zealander Regoli (winner
at his latest two starts), Over-
sight (one of the best milers in
Australia), Hydrogen, and
another from the Dominion,
Red Jester, who will be set the
task of trying to win a Doncaster
without a prior run at Randwick.
In the Cup the only real
danger at the moment to the hot
favorite seems to be Friendly
Feeling—that is, going by the
threat to the Sydney Cup
favorite, though he’d have to
improve on any form shown so
far, including his latest success,
to trouble the better-backed Cup
candidates. Best Sydney Cup
guide may come from the run-
ning on the first day of the
carnival, and maybe from the
11-furlongs Warwick Handicap
at Warwick Farm this coming
Saturday.
A number of Cup hopes
finished behind Maynard in the
Rosehill Cup, but there were
excuses for Friendly Feeling,
“From another admirer. Slugger
who was backed for a fortune
and was beaten half-a-neck. A
pointer to be noted is that
Maynard’s time for the race,
2.3 j, equalled Hydrogen’s made
last year. Maynard carried 7.7,
or 41b. more than he has in the
two-miler, run April 6. Friendly
Feeling had 8.5 last Saturday
and drops to 7.7 in the Cup.
Sir Sydney Snow and Allen C.
Lewis appear to have secured a
pretty smart two-year-old in
Connaught, well-backed winner
of the Rosehill Macarthur
Quality Handicap. Connaught
firmed in betting from 10’s to
7’s, and beat warm favorite
Royal Stream and Apple Jack in
a tight finish. Connaught had
impressed at his first race start
(Warwick Farm, Feb. 28), when
fifth to Naval Victory. A.
Mulley was seen to advantage on
the colt, who, of course, carries
the Peshawar colors.
The joint owners of Con-
naught were at Rosehill to see
their colt win. Peshawar ran
unplaced at Moonee Valley the
same afternoon in the Alister
Clark. Stakes, won by Hydrogen,
whose owner, E. R. Williams,
also was at Rosehill, where
Fashoda let the stable down
rather badly in the Cup and
caused his Sydney Cup stocks to
fall rapidly. Connaught was
bought privately by his owners
from the Aluinn Stud, Rox-
burgh (N.S.W.). He’s a smart
Genetout (imp.) youngster from
Pegaway, a Marconigram (imp.)
mare from Redbreast by
Christopher Robin.
Moonee Valley punters were
right on the ball on Saturday,
the seven winners being
strongly backed. Among the
winning favorites, consistent
Bytact (Moonee Ponds Handi-
cap) is a three-year-old by
Contact from Bylong and
is closely related to two noted
New Zealanders, Kindergarten
(£16,105) and Golden Souvenir
(£17,500).
Despite prior defeats at
weight-for-age. Hydrogen started
favorite for Moonee Valley’s
Alister Clark Stakes, miles,
and was far too solid for Mel-
bourne gallopers Quite Talk and
Arnside. Victorians stick to
their own jockeys, and maybe
that was an important factor in
the topweight’s position in the
betting-market. Carrying 9.5,
Hydrogen started at 7 to 2, and
was capably ridden by Bill
Williamson, replacing Darby
Munro, who had won on the
horse in the St. George Stakes
at Caulfield, but was beaten into
third place in both V.R.C.
Ercildoune and C. M. Lloyd
Stakes, Now that Hydrogen has
again struck winning form he
should be a force in the Sydney
autumn round.
Gssie Porter returned to the
winning - owners’ list when
Pimarendi won the Sydneyham
Trial Handicap, run over 13
furlongs. The four-year-old
Delville Wood (imp.) gelding had
previously won only minor races
outside the Melbourne metro-
politan area, but he started
favorite for the Valley race and
won easily from one of the
poorest fields seen in Melbourne
for some time. A 3200gns.
yearling, Pimarendi was ridden
by Ron Hutchinson, who later
in the day scored on Bytact and
brought his total successes this
season to 30.
v •
George and Jim Fleming,
owners of Kilkee Stud, Koora-
watha (N.S.W.), will parade the
first of the progeny of Berry-
lands (imp.) at the Randwick
autumn yearling auction during
A.J.C. race-week. This imported
sire was raced by the late King
George VI and won races in
England from six furlings to li
miles, facing the barrier only
four times for three wins. In
one sprint he carried topweight,
9.5. He is a son of English
Derby winner Bois Roussel (sire
of Tehran, leading English sire
last season, and of Delville
Wood, who is making a name
for himself at Kia-Ora stud.
Scone, N.S.W.) from Snowberry
by Cameronian (Derby, etc.).
Berrylands has eight yearlings in
the catalogue, and on their
appearance and bloodlines they
should command keen attention.
Yearlings to be offered early
in William Inglis and Son’s
annual sale at Randwick on the
opening day (Tuesday, April 7)
include several Genetout’s, Mid-
stream’s, Newtown Wonder’s and
Wayside Inn’s. One of the New-
town Wonder’s is a brother to
Apple Jack, while the progeny
of Genetout include a brother
to Columnist and one to Top
Level. Kia-Ora’s early Mid-
stream’s include a sister to Rio
Fe, a brother to Uhlan and a
half-sister to Monmouth. The
auction will extend over April 9,
10 and 13, the catalogue embrac-
ing 743 yearlings.
* * * ♦
With 284 “the best in” for
the 72 holes in the McWilliam’s
Wines big golf in Sydney, Kel
Nagle, the Pymble (N.S.W.) pro.,
was on the last green with his
275th stroke and thus had eight
putts left for a win. He went
down in two for a 277 and first
prize of £llOO.
Nagle, who is 32, is the first
big chap physidhlly to win the
event, the four previous ones
having been won by the com-
parative midgets Von Nida (three
wins) and Cremin. Nagle had a
first - round one - over - par 73,
thereafter he “burnt-up” the
course with 69, 67, 68. His 67
equalled the new course-record
set by amateur Peter Heard i
his second round. Heart
couldn’t better 75 after that anc
finished 13th.
Argentine Roberto d
Vicenzo, second to Nagle wit
284, was made favorite for th
McWilliam’s event by sporting
writers, seemingly because of hi
long hitting. Long-hitter he is
easily the longest hitter in th
McWilliam’s field but the
they were all long-hitters, anc
that means that short play anc
putting, particularly putting
takes the money. Nagle too
only 59 putts in the last 36 holes
Victorian Peter Thomson missec
an 18in. putt on the last anc
thereby missed third money
which went to Britain’s Harry
Weetman, who sank an 18-foote
for an eagle on the same green
Nagle thus adds the Me
William’s to his Australian pro
championship (1949), N.S.W
Close championship (1950) anc
three West Australian Opens
(1950, ’5l, ’52). He went abroac
with Von Nida, Cremin and
Thomson a couple of years ago
* * * *
“Mid-on”: May I follow-on
with some more Test-cricketers
ages (B. 11/3/’53)? Victorian
spinner Blackie was 46 when he
played his first Test (1928); his
team-mate Ironmonger was only
a year or two younger when he
played in his two Test series—
v. West Indies (1930-31) and v.
England (1932-33). Grimmett
was 43 in his last Test rubber,
against S. Africa (1935-36) —he
took 44 wickets, av, 14.5, in that
series. Probably the oldest man
ever to play in a Test was
Wilfred Rhodes, recalled to the
English XI for the final game
in 1926 when 49, to help Eng-
land regain the Ashes for the
first time since before 1914.
Incidentally, average age of that
English team was 34£ ; only one
was under 25, Larwood.
* * * *
Anyone who had a doubt
about Jimmy Carruthers’s first,
quick win over S’African Vic
Toweel must have had it
removed by the world
champion’s lOth-round k.o. win,
after leading easily on points up
to then, having in fact lost only
one round, the sixth. That many
must have actually thought the
first win a fluke was suggested
by the 40,000 crowd and
upwards of £A50,000 gate. One
thing worth adding: no more
gentlemanly decent a little chap
than Jimmy has ever held the
title, and all who have ever
encountered Toweel rate him
tops in that class, too.
Forcing the fight from start to
finish, and scoring a compulsory
“eight”-count knockdown in
round seven, Bert Hornby (10.1)
obviously outpointed aboriginal
Alfie Clay (lOst.) at Leichhardt,
but ref. Art Mawson rendered
another of his draw decisions.
Clay won the last round —about
the only one he did win. An
eight-rounds support, Graham
Moffett (10.2) v. Keith Robinson
(10.2), was also declared a draw,
though Moffett appeared to win
well on points.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONET BATES;
Single Booms—
From 13/6 pep night
Double Booms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“ METROPOLE /'
Sydney.
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
B
Vi
sii ii
ill
a
Hill
...
Krt
m
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDWARD ROY WILLIAMSON
TAKE NOTICE that JOAN FLORENCE
WILLIAMSON haB filed Petition No. 50
of 195? for divorce on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Registry King Street
Sydney by the 2nd June 1953 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from ,T. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor, of 107
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J, DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
UdMtj
*«•
as you like it!
amid the
colour and
splendour of
fascinating
CEYLON
Ceylon is famous for
rare tropical scenery.
~
Colourful Kandyan
Dancers, part of the
thrilling Kandy Pera-
hera in August.
Nature has been truly lavish with
her gifts to this magic island gem.
The moment you step ashore, the
subtle charm of Ceylon will infect
you with the desire to stay. In
Ceylon the tourist is provided with
every modern amenity for rest and
play. Famous tropical hotels pro-
vide accommodation and cuisine
that is unrivalled anywhere, and
Resthouses (Tourist Inns) offer
old-world charm. Sporting facilities
include trout fishing in Waltonian
streams, deep sea game fishing,
golf, shark-free surfing, and the
famous Colombo Racecourse.
Further information, free maps and
literature can be obtained by writing
to the CEYLON GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU, or Travel
Agents, Shipping and Airline
Companies in Australia.
Tours can be booked direct on all Registered Travel Ag
the Ceylon Government Tourist Bureau free of
CT .5.16
Behind the Iron Curtain
THE MALENKOV
QUINTET
By B. D. SINGER
NEARLY 30 years ago,
after Lenin’s death, the
question of succession .to
the role of ruler in the
Soviet Union seemed quite open.
Stalin was already manoeuvring
himself into top position, but he
was still hiding his game. Un-
like him, Malenkov, after
Stalin’s death, immediately put
his cards on the table and
asserted his supremacy.
It is true that Stalin —learning
from his own experience—prob-
ably prepared the ground for
succession more carefully than
Lenin had: he designed Malen-
kov as heir-apparent and prob-
ably staged last year’s All-union
Congress partly for his benefit.
But it is not at all certain that
Stalin expected his successor to
jump immediately into both his
shoes and to dominate the posi-
tion both as Premier and as boss
of the party.
We cannot be certain whether
or not Malenkov overstepped his
master’s will in this respect; but
in one respect he certainly
showed his mettle at once. Be-
fore the body of his protector
and master was deposited in its
mausoleum, Malenkov pro-
ceeded to reorganise party and
Government in a manner obvi-
ously contrary to Stalin’s desires,
since it broke the pattern estab-
lished by the last Congress in
Stalin’s lifetime.
Malenkov cannot expect to
have Stalin’s stature and prestige.
Therefore, having at once shown
his supremacy, he immediately
proceeded to divide up spheres
of competence among other
men. Whereas Stalin’s authority
was beyond question and he
could afford to leave the
frontiers of leadership somewhat
vague and undefined, Malenkov
is trying to make them clearly
defined; for conflicts and
quarrels could be dangerous to
his newly-gained authority.
Thus, under Stalin’s Premier-
ship there were 14 Deputy-
Premiers, most of them exer-
cising no Ministerial function
but controlling the work of
several Ministries. In the new
scheme of things many of these
Ministries have been combined,
and former Deputy-Premiers
have been put directly at their
head. Four men only are left as
“first Deputy-Premiers.” Headed
by Malenkov, they form the
“Presidium of the Council of
Ministers.”
This seems to mean that
Malenkov, having asserted his
leadership, has resigned himself
for the time being to running the
country with the assistance of
Molotov, Beria, Bulganin and
Kaganovich, The supremacy of
this quintet does not mean any
tilting of the balance against the
Communist party, since all of
them are also prominent mem-
bers of the party’s Presidium.
Let us look briefly at Russia’s
five top rulers.
Little is yet known about
Malenkov’s life. He is now 51
years old, and is therefore en-
tirely a product of Stalinism. He
joined the party after the Revo-
lution, and so has none of the
complexes or inhibitions of pre-
revolutionary Socialists. His
career was very closely modelled
on that of Stalin. He climbed
the Soviet ladder to power as a
manipulator of men, a back-
room-boy, an efficient and ruth-
less party secretary. In the late
’twenties he was on the staff of
the Central Committee, the real
seat of power. In the early
’thirties he was sent as an
organiser to the Moscow party-
branch, and then became head
of the department dealing wifii
the higher party cadres
In 1939 came his first reward:
membership of the Central Com-
mittee and Orgbureau. In 1941
came the first steps to fame:
Malenkov was one of the chief
figures in the party conference
of that year, and became a can-
didate to the Politbureau, the
party’s highest organ of
authority
Duril i' the war Malenkov wa ,
, g war iviaienKov was
already one of the top civilian
leaders a member of the small
-L d memoer or me small
committee directing the war-
effort and Stalin’s snecial envov
f XL * special envoy
to Stalingrad. After the war he
finally became a full member of
the Politbureau and a Deputy-
Premier.
From that time onward he
could aim very high. The death
of Zhdanov in 1947 removed his
most dangerous competitor, and
Malenkov came to the front as
the leading man of the new
generation. But not till last year
did Stalin—by making him the
star performer of the party con-
gress make it clear that he
would bequeath power to the
leader of the “new men.”
Georgi Malenkov’s gain is
Molotov’s loss. The new
arrangements must be a bitter
63rd-birthday gift to one who
for years, was Stalin’s second-
in-command. Now he has to
By special arrangement with the “Economistthis
Bulletin feature, giving up-to-the-minute informa-
tion on current developments “Behind the Iron
Curtain,” appears each month.
cede precedence to a “youngster”
who was scarcely out of his
cradle when Molotov became a
party-member.
Molotov, in fact, is one of the
very few" genuine Bolsheviks
who survived under Stalin ; he
is also the most prominent
member of the old guard. He
jumped early on to Stalin’s band-
wagon, and was pushed forward
by the then general-secretary,
whom he helped in the struggle
for power. After Stalin’s victory
he became his chief executive:
he was his Premier throughout
the 1930’s and his foreign
secretary for a decade from 1939.
Yet Stalin must have judged this
yes-man, with his 30 years’
experience of obedience, to be
too old to learn the art of
leadership.
It is Malenkov —who has
never travelled outside the Soviet
orbit in Europe—who now gives
to Molotov the reins of Soviet
foreign policy. Molotov has
probably been given wide scope
within a limited sphere, but
must abandon any more
ambitious designs on leadership.
Lazar Kaganovich, though
slightly younger and less well-
known abroad, also belongs to
the Stalinist old guard. He, too,
was one of Stalin’s faithful tools.
He specialised in “pacification”
(e.g., quelling peasant resistance
to collectivisation in the Ukraine)
and in “purging” from a vantage
position in the party’s secretariat.
He subsequently proved himself
a brilliant organiser t as com-
missar for transport and for
heavy industry. He was in
charge of the war-time evacua-
tion of people and factories and
fulfilled this task successfully.
He is now, apparently, nominated
as the economic boss of Russia,
the overseer of industrial and
agricultural Ministries, ,
As Kaganovich has not been
in the limelight for some time,
the new appointment is for him
a big advance, or, rather, a
recovery. Incidentally, the
appointment of a Jew to such
an important position seems to
indicate that the anti-Jewish
campaign will not be extended
much further.
Stalin’s fellow-Georgian (and,
apparently, cousin) Lavrenti
Beria is only three years older
than Malenkov, but has more
than 30 years’ experience as a
security boss. He started in
Georgia and the Caucasus.
Stalin, who kept an eye on his
native Georgia, brought him to
Moscow and made him head of
the security service in 1938.
Coming after “bloody Yezhov,”
Beria was hailed as a “liberal
executioner.” Up to 1946 he
reigned both nominally and in
fact over the vast empire of the
N.K.V.D. Then, on his appoint-
ment to the Pplitbureau, he
relinquished the title though he
continued to exercise the
function. Now he is officially
appointed head of the reunited
Ministry of home affairs and
security.
As a Georgian Beria can
hardly have high hopes of
personal, exclusive power, since
this would be taken as the begin-
ning of a Georgian dynasty.
Yet, with the powerful police
force at his disposal, he must be
a most useful ally and an even
more dangerous foe.
Nikolay Bulganin, though a
few years older, entered the party
after the revolution. Charac-
teristically enough, he, too,
started his Soviet career in the
Cheka —the ancestor of the
N.K.V.D. Hi s subsequent
activity was very varied. For
some time he worked as an
economist, then as director of a
Moscow electric factory. He
has been Premier of the Russian
Republic and the head of the
Soviet State Bank. During the
war he was a political overseer,
and, like Beria, he is one of the
post-war marshals. He was for
a time Minister of Defence, but
nominally dropped this function
when appointed a full member
of the Politbureau and Deputy r ’
Premier. Now he is officially
reinstated as Minister of De-
fence.
Since he is a typical “political
commissar” of the Army, Bul-
ganin’s position is likely to be
very delicate. As long as the
absolute supremacy of the party
over the Army is maintained his
position is secure, but should
Malenkov, in a time of crisis,
seek the support of the profes-
sional soldiers both Bulganin
and Beria himself may be in
danger.
Within the quintet, as in the
whole Soviet leadership, there
seems to be a clear dividing-line
between the old Stalinists and
the new, those of pre- and post-
revolutionary vintage. The mere
fact of nomination marks the
victory of the younger group,
but Malenkov has shown both
caution and adroitness in vic-
tory. Although actual leadership
was taken away from the old
guard, some members of it were
raised in status—for example,
Kaganovich, or Stalin’s old com-
rade-in-arms Marshal Voroshi-
lov, who was nominated to the
decorative but unimportant post
of Soviet President. In the party
Presidium, too, the older mem-
bers were left untouched. In-
deed, the newly-reduced Presi-
dium consists almost of the
same men as the former Polit-
bureau, which was abolished last
year.
It is quite possible that Malen-
kov will soon try to bring his
own men into the party leader-
ship in order to acquire power
akin to Stalin’s. Even so, how-
ever, he is unlikely to meet
strong resistance from the
divided old guard. His real
danger in such an event would
lie in secret coalitions of the dis-
carded leaders of his own
generation.
Any attempt to draw analogies
with the struggle for power after
Lenin’s death must not lose sight
of one radical difference from
the present situation. Then
Russia’s troubles were chiefly
internal; the danger of war had
receded and was only evoked by
Stalin for political purposes.
Now the clouds on the inter-
national horizon are thick, and
the Russians seem genuinely
worried by the danger of foreign
attack. That is a unifying fac-
tor. There are no signs of policy
conflicts between the various
groups of Soviet leaders. At the
sound of the tocsin they would
be likely to stop or postpone
their squabbles. So the tone and
contents of Mr. Dulles’s pro-
nouncements will have as much
influence as anything on the
speed at which Malenkov pro-
ceeds with the consolidation of
his newly-acquired power.


WHOM
TO ALL
d
N. AMERICA
5.
AMERICA
WSr/fA
*'A
CONTI NENTS
Swift, sure, Speedbird services link 51 countries
on all six continents . . - save days, even weeks of
travelling time. You fly on one ticket all the way.
Four-engined Speedbird aircraft are pressurized
for smooth, aftowe-the-weather flying. You relax in
deep-seated comfort, enjoy complimentary meals
and meal-time drinks, and., courteous, friendly
attention. No tips or extras.
fsd
1 11 ■■— —r—
8.0.A.C. leads with the
Comet services now operating
fs
Johannesburg London, Colombo London,
and Singapore London, are forerunners of
world-wide 8.0.A.C. Jetliner services.
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA • MALAYA * HONG
KONG • JAPAN • CEYLON • INDIA • PAKISTAN
MIDDLE EAST • AFRICA • EUROPE • GREAT BRITAIN
U.S.A. • CANADA • CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA
BERMUDA
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., (8.0.A.C,
General Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Darwin
or from Travel Agents in all cities and towns.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS
LTD,, TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD., AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
AT7/A U
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1818.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS \
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Jice-Chaiman).
0 0. GALE. STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER-
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manage ■
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centre
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
NEXT, THE SUEZ
Though they have cheered all
other British retreats or abdica-
tions, even the give-away-every-
thing brigades of the British
Press do not seem so happy
about the retreat from the Suez
Canal Zone.
Americans, too, hitherto de-
lighted cheerers, would seem to
have their doubts about this next
move. According to “U.S.
News and World Report,”
“Diplomats and generals in the
U.S. are at odds over the need
for British troops to guard the
Suez Canal. The diplomats
would like to please the Egyp-
tians by agreeing to troop with-
drawal, but the generals doubt
if this is a time to take a chance
on defence of a major trade
artery.”
A Vital Base
•
London “Times” has recorded
that “the aim of British policy
today i 5.... .complete with-
drawal from Egypt,” This, de-
clared L. S. Amery in a letter
to the “Times,” must “arouse
widespread anxiety.” He added;
“The Suez Canal Zone offers
the only adequate base for the
defence of the Middle East. It
is also the only base from which
we can equally send reinforce-
ment to the Eastern Mediter-
ranean or to the Indian Ocean.
It thus remains, in peace or war,
a vital point in the strategy of
,the free nations and the keystone
in the structure of imperial
defence.
“The free nations are today
engaged in a struggle—‘cold’ in
parts and ‘hot’ in others —which
might at any moment turn into
a general conflagration. This
struggle is waged along the
whole front from the Elbe,
through the Mediterranean to
Malaya, Indo-China and Korea.
In that front the Middle East is
one of the most vulnerable sec-
tors, politically as well as
strategically.
“What is more, the Middle
East has itself since 1946 been
the scene of a war whose bitter
memories are far from healed.
Egypt and the Arab States have
never recognised that war as
ended, and recent border inci-
dents show only too plainly how
far passions are still inflamed
and how critical the situation
still remains. A ‘second round’
now, between Arabs and Israel,
would be a far more serious
matter than in 1948. It would
not only plunge the whole
Middle East into anarchy, but
it might well invite a wider con-
flict with irretrievable conse-
quences for the whole world,
“In such circumstances we
cannot, merely for the sake of
reaching a settlement on paper,
agree to evacuate the Canal
Zone, or to reduce our forces to
a mere handful of care-and-
maintenance technicians left to
look after stores and equipment.
Nor could we content ourselves
with a right of re-entry in emerg-
ency. That right might easily be
disputed or unilaterally de-
nounced, and we might be met,
in the event, not only by protest
but by armed force. The only
body which we [Britain] would
be justified in inviting to share
our responsibilities would be
one representing the whole free
world, including Egypt, but in
which we should retain the lead-
ing position to which our his-
torical connection with the
Middle East and the security of
the whole Commonwealth entitle
us.
“Meanwhile, there is only one
possible and morally justifiable
policy. That is to remain in the
Canal Zone in sufficient strength,
so that it can be reinforced at
short notice, to meet whatever
storms may break upon us.”
Egypt Too Weak
In general, British Press com-
ment echoes this anxiety. Lon-
don “Daily Mail” can be taken
Then bid adieu to me and say the tears
Belong to Egypt: good now, play one scene
—London “News Chronicle’’
Of excellent dissembling; and let it look
Like perfect honor.
—Antony and Cleopatra,” Act I, Scene iii.
as fairly typical of the spate
of questioning and doubt. This
is, it has stated, a “very differ-
ent kettle of fish” from the
Sudan affair:
“If General Neguib and his
Government imagine that the
Egyptian Army are to be the
future caretakers of the Middle
East they will have to think
again. There are several rea-
sons for this. The first is that
Egypt is the key to the Middle
East, which is itself the strategic
key to the Western world.
“The integrity of this region
must be guaranteed by a Great
Power or a combination of such
Powers. Egypt is a poor, back-
ward country, unable to arm
herself with modern weapons.
But even if she were highly
industrialised she would not
rank as a first-class Power in
this age of colossal combines.
“Britain does. We still hold
and safeguard the Middle Fast
almost alone. Our Canal instal-
lations form the largest military
base in the world. These instal-
lations are worth hundreds of
millions of pounds. We cannot
allow this mighty concentration
of strength to fall as a sort of
legacy to the Egyptian Army.”
Alternative Bases
Britain has rights in Egypt
only up to 1956, when the
Anglo-Egyptian Treaty expires.
The Egyptians are pressing for
withdrawal now, before the end
of 1953. But, insists the “Daily
Mail”:
“The security of Egypt can-
not be relaxed for one moment
—whether it is controlled from
Suez or some other point or
points. At one time there was
talk of moving the base south
to Mackinnon-road, in Kenya,
but nothing came of it, Palestine
was also mentioned —but that
country has become independ-
ent. Now Cyprus is being made
into a British base. It is for the
experts to say whether an island,
vulnerable from the air, can be
a satisfactory substitute for
Suez.
“Cyprus does not stand alone,
of course. We also have a foot-
ing in Libya, which could pro-
vide some sort of a base, and
Turkey is also well placed to
help safeguard the Eastern
Mediterranean.
“It may be that in these days
of supersonic speeds we could
guard the Canal as well from
more distant places. But we
should never relinquish the right
to move swiftly into the Canal
Zone in time of trouble.” %
Awkward Issues
The British position up to
now, says “Manchester
Guardian’s” diplomatic corres-
pondent, seems to have been (it
probably still is) that Britain was
prepared to agree to evacuation
of its forces from the Canal
Zone “provided that adequate
alternative measures to ensure its
defence were adopted.” Even
with this, evacuation would still
be by no means simple:
“It is estimated that the cost
of developing the Suez Canal
base and the value of the war
material and supplies at present
there amount to some
£508,000,000. What sort of
compensation could the Egyp-
tians be asked to pay if this great
base and its supplies and equip-
ment were to be turned over to
them? And how would the
Egyptians find the sterling or
other acceptable currency to pay
for such compensation?
“Though we are only per-
mitted, under the 1936 Anglo-
Egyptian Treaty, to station
10.000 troops (and perhaps addi-
tional maintenance troops) in
the Canal Zone, our forces were
increased after the Egyptian
abrogation of the treaty and the
disturbances which followed
from 15,000 Army and 5000
R.A.F. personnel to the present
total of some 75,000. To trans-
fer so large a number of troops
will inevitably take time. And
where are they to go?”
Cyprus Out
“Manchester Guardian” de-
clares that, while no decision
has yet been made on an alterna-
tive base, all agree that Cyprus
is out of The question:
“It possesses wholly inade-
quate port facilities and com-
munications, apart from the
more general objections to an
island base.
“It is reported from Cyprus
that certain military construc-
tions are now being undertaken
on the island. This is under-
stood to be a purely British
venture unconnected with the
projected joint Middle East
Command and that it will
accommodate some of the
75.000 troops in the Canal
Zone. Some of these are likely
to be withdrawn in the near
future.
“Now that the British and
Egyptian Governments are
going to make one more attempt
to settle their dispute over the
Canal Zone base it seems reason-
able to expect that more urgent
discussions will take place be-
tween the four Powers concern-
ing the Middle East Defence
project. It is, indeed, difficult to
see how Britain can conclude a
separate agreement with Egypt
on a matter which will so vitally
affect the possibility of creating
a Middle East Defence Organisa-
tion.”
“British Must Go”
A London “News Chronicle”
correspondent, giving the
Egyptian side, concludes that for
Britain there’s only one sensible
thing to do ; that is, get out:
“As Egypt sees it the issue is
clear-cut. The British must go.
Until they do go Egypt will have
no truck with any Middle East
defence-plan.
“And if the British refuse to
go? Then guerrilla war —Abdul
Nasr, Neguib’s chief lieutenant,
has openly proclaimed it —and
this time it would not be the pin-
pricks of a few hastily-organised
liberation squads but attacks on
such a scale as might well com-
pel us, in our own defence, to
reoccupy Cairo and the Delta,
crush Neguib as we crushed
Arabi in 1882 and restore the
old regime.
“Weigh the consequences ,of
such a course —the repercussions
throughout the Moslem world,
from Casablanca to Karachi;
the shock to progressive minds
everywhere; the international
complications; the sullen hos-
tility of a whole nation which
sees in Neguib its one hope of a
better life.
“Weigh all that against the
alternative —the premature sacri-
fice of our installations in the
Canal Zone; the risk involved
in a temporary ‘vacuum’ in
Middle East defence (a risk that
arrangements for evacuation by
stages could greatly diminish if
not entirely eliminate); the tacit
assurance that Neguib, once he
is master of his own house, will
throw in his lot with the West:
and ask yourself which course
best serves the interests of
Britain and the Western alliance.
If, as I think, there can be only
one answer, the sooner it is
given the better.
“A frank statement now that
Britain accepts the principle of
evacuation from the Canal and
that only the arrangements re-
main to be discussed —that
would at least ensure that when
we do go it will be with our
colors flying.”
Friends in Need
The floods and storms which
struck savagely at Britain,
Holland and Belgium had one
incidental value, as looked back
on by London “Daily Herald”
—they showed “how strong is
the spirit of human brother-
hood” :
“Italy, not so long since at
war with Britain and Holland,
issued daily radio appeals for
funds to relieve distress in those
countries. The Italian Govern-
ment itself contributed £250,000,
and offered to find homes for a
thousand Dutch children. Italian
doctors volunteered to go to
Holland. So did river firemen
of the Po Valley.
“Germany, our enemy eight
years ago, sent rubber boots to
Holland through the Red Cross;
volunteer working-parties to
repair dykes; money and clothes
to Dutch towns across the
border.
“Austria opened a relief fund,


Akubra
Bss
: 'V
Aknbra represents
the best hat value in the
world.
See the fine range
of Aknbra hats— especially
the Imperial Quality.
AKUBRA
AUSTRALIA’S FAVOURITE HAT
offered to take a thousand Dutch
children, and sent a trainload of
ambulances to Holland equipped
with medicine, blankets and
clothing.
“In twenty-four hours after it
learned the news of the floods
Switzerland collected £llO,OOO
for Holland, Britain and
Belgium.
“In Belgium, hit by the floods
but less grievously than Holland
or Britain, an appeal for money-
aid for those two countries was
launched.
“Norway sent large consign-
ments of sandbags by plane and
ship to Holland ; offered timber
pre-fab. houses to Britain;
opened a national money
collection.
“Sweden sent blankets and
clothes by air and sea to
Holland. France sent engineers
to Holland. Greece sent
currants, sultanas and wine to
Britain and Holland,”
Britain's Maximum
London “Qaily Telegraph,” on
the much-pressed suggestion that
European unification would
happen overnight if only J. Bull
would sign on, too:
“On paper Britain is com-
mitted to defend Western Europe
under five separate headings, of
which the North Atlantic and the
Dunkirk Treaties are the most
outstanding.
“In her heart and by her
experiences in two world wars
she is, it is even more important
to note, committed beyond a
peradventure.
“By all means, if it comforts
any friend or deters any enemy,
let the existing instruments be
brought out and dusted. In
particular let both Britain and
the United States repeat and
extend long-term assurances that
their forces will remain in
‘Europe for the defence of
Europe. But this will not in fact
add one jot to Britain’s contri-
bution, already the maximum
she can manage, nor one tittle to
the resolution in her heart.”
Man at Work
From a Washington report in
New York “Herald Tribune” on
how Eisenhower, as “a military
man taking over the greatest
civilian job in the world,” sets
about his work:
The White House is already
buzzing by 8.30 in the morning,
when all members of the Presi-
dent’s staff (somewhat to the
distress of some of them) are
expected to arrive on the dot—
and the President may have
been out of bed as much as
three hours before the White
House opens for business.
By 8.30 he has breakfasted
long before, read his newspapers
and some essential documents,
and prepared for a hard-
driving work-day that may last
12 or even 16 hours. The
President’s only relaxation these
days consists of an occasional
brief spell of his beloved paint-
ing before an early bedtime.
He has a special quirk which
one of his assistants describes as
“an auditory rather than visual
intelligence.” He learns far more
readily through his ears than
through his eyes; likes to have
his speeches, for example, read
aloud to him, and he corrects
and edits them by voice (most
astutely—he hates unnecessary
complications in style). This
practice of hearing rather than
reading wherever possible is
actually less time-consuming
than might be supposed, since
the President’s “auditory intel-
ligence” is remarkably quick.
He puts a high value on per-
sonal contacts, but, though
accessible, he has no patience
with people who waste his time.
“In the presence of time-
wasters Eisenhower’s cheerful
briskness shades over into
brusqueness, and a hint of the
Eisenhower temper begins to
appear. Those who have been
present on the rare occasions
when the President has lost his
temper say that this is a
memorable experience. An
Eisenhower rage is truly tower-
ing. His face flushes a deep red,
the jaw juts forward, and. the
usually genial blue eyes turn to
ice, freezing the offender in his
tracks.
“No one, in short, who enters
the White House forgets for a
moment who is President of the
United States. But although he
is very much master in his own
house, Eisenhower, like all
Presidents, is already beginning
to muster around him a sort of
inner council of a few men on
whom he relies very heavily.
“Except for Adm. Arthur
Radford [tipped to become
Chief-of-Staff] Eisenhower is
turning to civilians for advice,
rather than to his old service
colleagues. The President is
clearly determined to avoid even
the appearance of government by
the military.
“In sum, already a picture of
the new President, like the pre-
liminary pencil sketch for a full-
length portrait, is beginning to
emerge. It is, by and large, a
decidedly hopeful picture.”
Chiang
The extreme in American
high hopes of Chiang Kai-shek
—probably not shared by the
Eisenhower Administration or
U.S. military heads —has been
expressed in “U.S. News and
World Report”:
“Release of Chiang Kai-shek’s
forces eventually to bomb the
north-south railway on the main-
land of China from the air, or
to raid the coastal islands from
the sea, or to intercept the
freighters of any nation carrying
contraband cargoes of war
materials to Communist China,
are all proper military opera-
tions for the Nationalist Govern-
ment of China.”
That rather grandiose view of
the whole Chiang set-up has been
modified in a report by New
York “Herald Tribune” corres-
pondent Homer Bigart to the
finding that Chiang’s Nation-
in no position to invade
the mainland “this year.” He
would mean “successfully
invade,” and British comment
would amend again to “this
year—or any other year,”
Indeed Bigart himself has no
high ppinion of Chiang’s troops,
who, he says, “are still under-
equipped—some divisions even
lack standardisation in small-
arms, being supplied partially
with old Japanese and Czech
rifles or .30-calibre ‘gimo’ rifles
made in Formosa arsenals.”
Their numbers are put at from
300,000 to 400,000 —a mere
platoon compared with Mao’s
3,000,000 regulars, only 750,000
of whom are engaged in Korea.
In any case, other reports
suggest that Chiang’s is a rather
ragtime outfit.
“The Generalissimo’s ageing
soldiers beached in Formosa,”
says a London “Financial
Times” account, “have neither
the desire nor the physique to be
turned into a commando strik-
ing force. One reads frequent
newspaper reports of executions
of the Generalissimo’s warriors,
carried out, as Voltaire put it,
to encourage the others. One
would have to possess a heated
imagination to maintain that
these troops, now battening* on
American rations, are pining to
brave the perils of the sea.
“The quality of these troops
can be summed-up in a phrase
attributed to the Duke of
Wellington. After inspecting a
singularly ill-conditioned regi-
ment, the Duke said: T know
not what effect these men will
have on the enemy, but, by God,
they frighten me.’
“From a military, and indeed
from a human, point of view, it
would be better for the Ameri-
cans to build a cluster of Chelsea
Hospitals for the Generalissimo’s
troops rather than employ husky
American marines to assist them
into landing-craft.”
Nor (according to the quoted
“Herald Tribune” correspondent)
is it only Chiang’s troops (and
Chiang) who are getting a bit
long in the tooth. Says Bigart:
“Chiang’s army has immediate
need of 10,000 pack animals.
Except for a few hundred old
nags, 12 or 13 years old, belong-
ing to the horse cavalry, there is
not another horse or mule on
Formosa.”
Various Voices
Mrs. Jean Mann {British
Socialist M.P.): “Where are
local authorities to get an ox
for roasting in Coronation
week? They inform me they
haven’t got an ox. They haven’t
even got a mutton-chop.”
Msgr. John O’Grady, of
Washington {interviewed in
Rome): “There is great danger
lest many Italians, on the basis
of complete disillusionment in
regard to our'[American] immi-
gration legislation, may vote for
the Communists in the next elec-
tion. It is conceivable that by
reason of our immigration legis-
lation Italy could go over to the
Communists.”
Anthony Eden: “Understand-
ings between nations may con-
stantly be difficult to reach, but
the opportunity will come. We
must be ready to seize it when it
does, acting always with strength,
imagination and patience: and
the greatest of these is patience,”
J. P. L. Thomas, First Lord of
the Admiralty {on Britain’s new
aircraft-carrier Hermes): “Her
flight-deck is larger than a foot-
ball-field ; her distilling-plant is
sufficient for most small towns;
her generators could supply
10,000 homes without fear of
power cuts.”
Israeli Minister of Commerce,
Peretz Bernstein : “Yes, we shall
survive. We shall survive because
—well, as we say in Israel, ein
braira: there is no alternative.”
M. Schuman {in his first
speech since leaving the French
Foreign Ministry): “Europe
cannot become a mere prolonga-
tion of Asia. Europe must dis-
cipline itself, must cease to tear
itself to pieces, and must keep
in mind the fact that the solu-
tion of the Franco-German prob-
lem will necessarily precede the
solution of all other European
problems.”
David Gammans ( Britain’s
Assistant Postmaster-General):
“The second Elizabethan Age
will not comp automatically be-
cause we have a Queen named
Elizabeth on the throne. It is by
our individual spirit that a great
new chapter in British history
can be written. There must be
less expecting the State to do
everything for us, more daring
and willingness to risk every-
thing in great adventure, more
pride and faith in ourselves, less
envy of the successful, less
sloppy sentimentality and greater
appreciation of the value of true
worth.’*
Adlai Stevenson: “We have
heard much about the new
‘psychological’ offensive, but the
Russians are in the struggle to
stay. We delude ourselves if we
think that a few words uttered
on the short-wave radio will
cause this iron regime to shatter
and disintegrate.”
Major Lloyd-George {Britain’s
Food Minister): “Before the war
we were spending as a nation
just under 30 per cent, of our
personal expenditure on food.
Today the figure is almost the
same —actually it is about 32 per
cent. But the proportion of our
incomes that we are spending on
alcohol and tobacco has gone up
from 10 per cent, to 15 per cent.
—half as much again. lam not
condemning these things, all I
am saying is don’t let’s pretend
that we can’t afford to pay for
our food. First things first.”
New U.S. Defence Secretary,
Charles E. Wilson: “Our prob-
lem is to achieve adequate mili-
tary strength within the limits
of endurable strain upon our
economy,”
Professor Thomas Marshall
{London University): “It is pos-
sible that white-collar jobs are
losing something of their former
prestige, and more children to-
day judge possible future jobs
as much by whether they are
interesting in themselves as
whether they are well paid or
socially looked up to.”
Henry Ford 2nd: “If the
United States does not help to
expand trade for the nations of
the world which are not yet
caught in the . spider’s-web of
Soviet Russia, those nations can-
not exist as free nations and
will sooner or later —and maybe
not so very much later—be
drawn into the web, one way or
another. Russia’s price will be
heavy—and very, very hard on
us.”
M. Georges Bidault: “The
Channel is a bank-account given
by geography to history, and
England thinks she can still
draw on it,”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
to eradicate crime, all causes should be
looked into.
Apropos, though fond of a good film,
I believe that people who go to the
“flicks” two or three times a week (and
there are many such) go far too often,
I am not suggesting they are criminals in
the making, but in getting their culture
this way “on the cheap” without mental
effort they are not benefiting themselves
to the extent that they would if they
Lost Jobs
A couple of years ago we had over-
employment—too many jobs, not enough
men or women. Now we have a small
measure of unemployment, and occa-
sionally a newspaper tells us of some
individual who “hadn’t had a job for
three months,” generally in connection
with a police-court charge or bad-luck
story.
I then recall that not so many years
back our butcher called for orders and
delivered meat daily ; that three milkmen
worked our street in healthy competition
and for years apparently made a living;
that my wife had a “help” three days a
week to do the washing, ironing and some
scrubbing ; that my firm employed three
gardeners in the grounds of the works ;
that on my father’s property nine men
were employed, three of them mostly odd-
jobbers who kept the place spick-and-
span.
The jobs of the butcher’s-carter, two of
the milkmen, my wife’s “help,” two of
my firm’s gardeners and three of my
father’s hands no longer exist —abolished
variously by economic pressure, Govern-
ment interference, mechanisation and, to
some extent, by the new snobbery which
considers some jobs “menial.”
No doubt all these jobs could be called
luxuries, but isn’t it explicit in our often-
voiced desire to raise the standard of liv-
ing that we should add, and not
eliminate, luxuries ; that life should be-
come more gentle and graceful, not more
rugged?
I cannot see it as desirable that a man
should not be able to earn a sufficient
margin over his living costs to enable him
to employ some labor on things not
strictly useful, but ornamental. To drive
through our countryside today is to see
untidy paddocks, sagging fences and
tottering unpainted sheds because the
owners are not permitted to retain suffi-
cient of their income to employ a surplus
hand or two for the not-strictly-essential
jobs. I think that the flower-beds which
have now vanished from the grounds of
our works, because the staff of gardeners
had to be cut down, brightened the lives
of the employees and made the place a
happier one at which to work.
Despite the fact that rapid increase in
our population is essential to our sur-
vival, we have had to suspend immigra-
tion. Because we have run out of jobs
for the migrants? We have not run out
of jobs, but a lot of us have run out of
energy. We refuse to accept the truism
that by working more diligently we can
produce more in less time, and so reduce
the cost of living without reducing wages ;
that wages will then buy more and leave
us. a surplus to spend on such luxuries
as giving a job to one of our mates, —
Thinkit (N.S.W.).
Comics and Crime
P. O. MacCabe and the great majority
of intelligent people undoubtedly do re-
main unharmed by Deadwood Dicks and
horror-films (B. 11/2/’53), but, in con-
sidering their effect, shouldn’t the com-
munity be primarily concerned with the
reaction to them of “subnormals”?
That, however, calls for qualification.
If a survey of the species {Out of Step,
by psychologist Joseph Trenaman) is
correct, the average young British is not
“subnormal,” but likely to be above
average in native intelligence; usually,
however, he has made such scant use of
his brains that he is hopelessly backward.
He usually lacks any constructive hobby,
according to Trenaman, is unable to
read anything more advanced than comics
and visits the films about three times a
week. Note his association with films
and comics!
Trenaman is emphatic that the
criminal mind is formed during early
childhood, when such propaganda-
influences as films and cheap literature
have their greatest effect. But, in support
of P. O. MacC.’s theory, his findings
are that most criminals come from un-
happy homes, usually ones where mother
and father are for ever quarrelling —with
the result that children are utterly
neglected or too severely disciplined.
Most people who go to the “pitchers”
never take to crime, admittedly (by the
same token, honest citizens may come
from unhappy homes). In the attempt
“I've found it simpler to feed them straight from the butcher s."
devoted only one of these evenings to the
reading of good literature.—Keima (Q.).
Street-lighting
Not only is Sydney “a city of bare
[treeless] streets” (B. 18/2/’53) —it is also
a city of very badly-lit streets. Investi-
gators from the National Council of
Illuminating Engineering Societies, after
a recent inspection-tour of most suburbs,
described Sydney’s street-lighting as
“dangerously inadequate.”
Bad street-lighting is an important fac-
tor in causing road-accidents at night.
“Street-lighting in Sydney,” said the presi-
dent of the council mentioned, “has com-
pletely failed to keep abreast of the
demands of modern transport,”
As well, dark streets giVe cover and
opportunities to footpads, bashers and
suchlike. Where there are trees the posi-
tion is often worse.
At Coogee, for some 300yds. along the
street in which I lately lived was an
avenue of trees, absolutely unlit. Women
were afraid to walk down it alone after
dark, and while I lived there at least one
woman was menaced.
Lack of finance seems to be the main
trouble. Most municipal councils can’t
afford to go in for better street-lighting.
South Australia may have a part-solution
—the S.A. Government recently subsi-
dised some councils specially to enable
them to instal modern road-lighting. —
K. R. (N.S.W.).
Art Criticism
W. P. Frith, R.A., in his entertaining
Autobiography and Reminiscences, ad-
vised all artists, young and old, never
to read art-criticism (B. 18/3/’53).
Nothing was to be learned from it:
Let me ask any painter if, when he wants
advice upon any difficulty in the conduct
of his work, he would seek it from an art
critic? No, I reply for him ; he would
apply to an artist friend.
But though, as I believe, no advantage
accrues in any case to an artist from public
criticism, much undeserved pain is often
inflicted, and even injury caused, by the
virulent attacks that sometimes disgrace the
Press.
For very many years —indeed, ever since
I became convinced of the profound
ignorance of the writers—l have never read
a word of art-criticism.
I came across an echo of that in a
new book, A Hundred Years of British
Painting, 1851-1951, by Hesketh Hub-
bard, president of the Royal Society of
British Artists.
Referring to the 1860’s, Hubbard
reveals that there were few serious art
critics. Criticism then suffered, as it still
sometimes does, from the desire of the
critic too often to show how well he
could write or what a smart fellow he
could be.
This was summed-up ip a rather lengthy
notice about the 1861 Academy Exhibi-
tion, of which Hubbard gives this para-
phrase :
Brilliant writing and flashy ignorance
is always preferred in journalism to
simply-expressed knowledge. The “sen-
tence-maker” despises principles and
rules; an attitude that imposes a cruel
wrong on painters. It is the rubbish the
English critics write that gives the
foreigner such a low and false opinion
of British painting, but when the foreigner
looks at the pictures instead of reading
about them his opinion is generally re-
versed.
The “gibberish” of the critics drives
many from the enjoyment of art, for it
is always easier to utter jargon than
attempt to measure the work ■ of the
artist by a definite yardstick. It is so
easy to be smart and rude.
It is not from truth the artists suffer,
but from the scoffing ignorance of the
critic who has forgotten that his function
is to teach the public what is good by
pointing out its excellences, not to flagel-
late the painter. His function is to
stimulate, not to crush the artist, and he
can only do this by combining with
knowledge a genuine love of art and
sympathy for die artist.
But of knowledge of art the critic often
has less than he has of politics, social
economy or the state of the money-
market. No artist asks to be exempt from
the “intelligent investigation” of his
works, but he is entitled to a portion of
that fairplay which Englishmen boast of
giving impartially to all. Fashion is no
standard for sound criticism, although it
always exercises a powerful influence over
ignorant minds. — Murracurra (S.A.).
Red Cedar
Red-cedar is one of our most useful
trees and one of the finest furniture-
woods in the world. It is also one of
our scarcest. It is useful and beautiful,
yet not a single official afforester has it
on his list, because the N. S. Wales and
“Think you'll equip her with television when it comes, Bill?
Queensland Forestry Departments re-
ported that “Unfortunately, all arbon-
cultural tests with this species of tree
have failed owing to the ravages of twig-
borers.”
Our Forestry Departments, however,
being whales for uniformity, plant in pure
stands, and red-cedar is an isolationist.
Today a little natural regeneration is
taking place, and a few cedars planted by
man are growing well, as around Kerai,
on the Atherton Tableland. An old tree-
lover planted these many years ago, each
beside the stump of a red-cedar.
If a cedar is planted beside an old
stump and given a little attention for a
couple of years it grows into a fine young
sapling. At 30 years it is millable
and at 40 years has a 7ft, girth. This
method of planting is more costly than
planting in pure stands, but the ends
justify the expenditure. It could also be
planted thinly through stands of other
timbers without extra expense.
But if the Forestry Departments cannot
handle our red-cedar for us our civic-
and shire-councils may. Thousands of
pines and sugar-gums are planted for
ornamental or memorial trees; Red-cedar
could replace them with great advantage
if the councils realised that these are a
long-term investment. — John J. Alderson
(Vic.).
Merino Embargo
“J.R.L.” is making a very wild state-
ment when he says (B. 11/2/’53) that all
land in South Africa and the Argentine
which can run sheep is fully occupied. If
this is so why are sheepmen in Africa
and our stud-breeders so concerned
regarding the export embargo? It doesn’t
make sense.
South Africa is too big a country for
all the land that can carry sheep to be
yet fully occupied.
With South Africa’s cheap labor and
proximity to the markets it could (with
the help of our stud Merinos) easily
undersell us. In that connection it is well
to remember that the Rand Mines, which
have produced untold wealth, would, in
Australia, be unpayable, like Cobar. —
A.T.C. (N.S.W.).
Poor Farmers?
A part of the Australian farming com-
munity may have lived as poorly as
“G.H.” claims in the days before there
was extensive development of secondary
industry in N.S.W. (B. 4/3/’53), but by
no means all did. My own grandfather
had only a small farm (43 acres), rented
at that, on a river flat near an inner-
western N. S. Wales country town.
He not only sent his son to finish his
education at a good private school, but
in the early ’nineties, while still in middle-
-age, he was able to retire. He bought
a good brick house in Ashfield, and, when
he died, left his son quite a comfortable
sum in cash, insurances and shares. And
his case was by no means unique among
N.S.W. farmers of his generation.—
Cunedda (N.S.W.).
Army Uniforms
Here you are, girls; a complete outfit.
Everything provided except the bridal
bouquet and the man. Join the Royal
Australian Army Nursing Corps— sign
up for two years and receive the follow-
ing; leather attache-case, cotton ward-
dress, summer dress, winter walking-out
uniform, grey jacket, cardigan ditto, shirt
and collar, lisle stockings and socks, grey
hat, black beret, gloves, shoulder-bag,
sandshoes, black walking-shoes and,
doubtless, other odds and ends. One
two-hour parade a week, a yearly camp
of two weeks and optional weekend
camps are all you are called on to do.
Surely the above list, for part-time
trainees, is a bit over the odds. Is it
any wonder that the country is groaning
under taxation when “defence” money is
splashed round like that?
If the Federal Government wants to
reduce taxation, then it had better get to
work with the pruning-knife on expendi-
ture of this sort. — Ceg (Vic.).


Those Armaments
Sorry, “Clem Lack” (B. 18/2/’53), but
the Minie rifle was French, and Minie
did not invent it. Thonvenin and Del-
vigne produced the rifle and Minie and
Tamasier the cylindro-conical bullet. It
was much more than the mus-
kets that preceded it, but had so high a
trajectory that an error in range of
50yds. at 500yds. caused the ball to pass
over a mounted man’s head.
France used an early Minie rifle in the
Crimean War, Britain used Enfields
towards the end thereof. That was the*
last war in which muzzle-loading small
arms and wooden warships were used.
Propelled by paddle-steamers lashed to
their off-shore sides, the old wooden walls
suffered severely under Russian fire, and
Napoleon 111 suggested that they be
sheathed in ironplate. Hence La Gloire,
a wooden steamer sheathed in iron and
laid down by France in 1858 —the first
ironclad built as such.
But in 1859 Britain went one better
with the all-iron Warrior, and followed
up quickly with three classes of turret-
ships, Royal Sovereign, Captain and the
early Dreadnought class. The first two
had sails, and were top-heavy. Captain
was lost by capsizing at sea. The Dread-
noughts were real warships, but had very
low freeboards. Victoria’s Cerberus was
of this class.
The turret-ships were succeeded by
ships of ever-increasing efficiency of the
big - gun - plus - secondary - battery types
until the return of the later Dreadnoughts,
which class has remained. It reached
the peak with the Hood, the most
powerful war-machine yet produced.
Secondary armaments have returned,
mostly high-angle quick-firers and
semi-automatics to repel air attack, and
it looks as if the big-gun ship is
doomed. But Britain still leads in quality
and originality, if not in quantity.—
Armorer (Q.).
Pinus-radiata Complex
The pine plantation—now 35 years old
-—at Pittwater, by Cambridge aerodrome
in Tasmania, has transformed a sandy
waste into a valuable forest area. At
the extreme end of this plantation, where
the jutting point of land had been left
to the remaining eucalypts, only the
scarred tops of the latter remain visible
above the drifting sand from Seven-mile
Beach.
Timbers mentioned by “Ex r R.S.M.”
(B. 21/1 /’53) deserve the serious atten-
tion of our forestry experts, but there
is no reason why soil practically unfit for
growth of most timbers should not be
used for pine. Firms insignis practically
kills any other growth in its vicinity, but
in poorer soils that would not matter.
According to a report in Auckland
“Weekly News,” foresters in Nelson
Province are greatly interested in a
“freak” pine, with practically no lateral
branches, the few that exist being of a
vestigial and drooping character. This
tree has grown tall and straight-grained
and will yield many more super, feet of
knot-free timber than the average pine.
To gather the ripe cones it was necessary
for men to climb 184 ft. to the tree’s
crown. The seeds are being germinated
at several forest stations, but the young
trees are not yet sufficiently grown to
show their future outlines. There are
many waste areas in Australia where ex-
periments might be made with this type
of pine.—J. B. (Tas.).
Most exQtic nine Plantations in Aus-
“I’m training to do the shopping."
tralia have been established on poor
country—very often wasteland unsuit-
able for agriculture and pasture, or for
continuous timber-production. In these
areas the rainfall is generally sufficient
for the growth of pine.
Experiments in Canberra indicate that,
under fairly open savannah-type eucalypt
forests, up to 90 per cent, of the rain that
falls reaches the ground. In pine forests
practically all light rain is intercepted
by the pines, but nearly all heavy falls
reach the forest floor. For example,
where the monthly rain is less than lin.,
up to 10 per cent, reaches the floor under
P. radiata, whereas with the monthly
total exceeding 2in., between 55 p.c. and
85 p.c. reaches the ground under the
same stand.
Eucalypts, however, are much more
wasteful in their use of soil-moisture than
P. radiata, which uses about 300 pounds
of water to make one pound of wood,
while eucalypts may use up to 400 pounds.
Further, under Australian conditions,
much more water is lost by evaporation
than is received from rainfall, and the
loss from eucalypt forests, with their
open canopy and regularly burned under-
story and ground-cover, is much greater
than from the average pine forests, with
their close canopy and heavy fitter
carpet, where a distinct micro-climate is
developed. This is reflected in the soil
structure under stands of both eucalypts
and pine.
The question of pine forests on catch-
ment-areas comes under a different cate-
gory from that of (those planted for
timber-production. The planting of fast-
growing conifers has been criticised on
the grounds that they lower the water-
table and deplete the supply of water
which would otherwise be available for
the streams, but it is important to view
this in its true perspective.
Instances of. ruined catchment-areas
in this country are legion, where im-
proper farm practices have removed
valuable timber-stands and thus destroyed
soil-stability. This has frequently been
aggravated by destructive burning and
cultivation methods little short of
criminal. The result has been sheet- and
gully-erosion, silting of streams, ruin of
farms, widespread flooding and general
soil-debilitation.
Establishing pine plantations would
improve catchments generally. The
surface run-off which causes erosion
would be checked and, instead of run-
off water muddy with catchment soil,
clear percolation-water would find its
way through the pine-litter, thence
through a stabilised soil to the lower
streams. Whether this final goal
were achieved by planting with Mon-
terey-pine, western yellow-pine, Douglas-
fir or of any others would be im-
material —except in so far as the choice
of species affects future management.
The main thing is that our catchment-
areas would be preserved and improved.
One final point is worth consideration:
rainfall over forested areas appears to
exceed that over non- or poorly-forested
areas.— Pigi (Q.).
New States
What made “G.H.” think that because
nearly two-thirds of N. S. Wales popula-
tion is herded in a tiny coastal strip the
effect has been bullock prices leaping to
£9O a head and farming-land to £2OO
an acre (B. 4/3/’53)? In this State there
are just on three million mouths to feed
and it makes little difference to the
demand for foodstuffs to feed them
whether they are reasonably dispersed or
the great majority of them clustered in
Newcastle-Sydney-Wollongong.
As a city-dweller “G.H.” cannot under-
stand how these overwhelming popula-
tions monopolise the fruits of the State
and strangle development in rural areas.
To quote but one of many examples, I
live near the partly-completed Mary
Vale-Sandy Hollow railway-line. Since
1945 people here have many times asked
the Government to complete the line, but
each time have been told there was no
labor, or no money or no materials. But
all the time labor, money and materials
were being found for new railway pro-
jects within the Cahill version of N.S.W.
The N e wca s tle-Sy dney-W ollon gong
bloc has 63 members in the State Parlia-
ment, the country district only 31. If we
have a new State embracing the central
and western parts of N, S. Wales, and
our Macquarie Government was entitled
to a quarter of the loan funds now coming
to this State, then we would be free of
the big-city monopoly. We could com-
plete the Mary Vale line and other rural
projects now abandoned by the Sydney-
dominated Government. K. Me.
(N.S.W.).
Sydney University
The “flurry of Sydney University” (B.
18/2/’53) during the exchange of day
and evening students is easily over-
emphasised. The true atmosphere of
the Uni. must be looked for in the lecture-
rooms, and in the fusion of minds of
the lecturer and the students. The con-
tinuity of effort provided here is the
example which belies the externals.
The Uni. itself is not to blame for the
serious overcrowding in post-war years.
Contributing factors have in-
cluded parents with new-found
wealth and the Commonwealth
rehabilitation and financial-
assistance. schemes.
One of our high ideals is the
opportunity of higher education
for all. In that, the University
is playing its part. In 1948 it
had a peak enrolment of over
11,000; it is now less, but still
high. Finance is certainly a
problem, and it is all the more
credit to the Uni. that it is
carrying on in face of that diffi-
culty.
With fewer members there would cer-
tainly be more chance of contact between
staff and students, but no member of
the staff refuses discussion with inquiring
students. The collegiate system of tutor-
ing provides the ideal for high standards
of scholarships, and Sydney Uni. performs
its accepted role creditably. While high
standards remain there can be no stagna-
tion of the spirit of scholarship.
The transitional first year at the Uni.
determines the scholarships or otherwise
of prospective graduates. Each must
overcome the change from a well-
regulated routine of high school to one
where he develops his own organisation
and his own responsibility. The external
driving-force of the teacher must be re-
placed by an internal scholastic drive.
This takes time, and many a student has
been grateful for short essays on which
to test his newly-found freedom of
effort. At the end of first year the
normal selective examination discovers
those who have not made the necessary
adjustments and weeds out the students
to whom scholarship is incompatible or
impossible.
Only a high standard of scholarship
can support the later studious years.
English students with three lectures each
week are expected to assimilate the
major works of about 30 authors of a
particular period during each year.
Poetry, drama and literature are in-
cluded.
Previous exam.-papers are of some
use, but the Quad, and library are
littered with the lost hopes of those who
have depended on them. Scholarship is
allowed full rein in final-year essays, and
it is a full-time task for many weeks to
write 5000 convincing words on an
obscure Victorian poet. All faculties re-
quire personal research and long private
study. Scholarship with such grounding
is not easily lost after Uni. years, even
though it can become submerged in
career, finance and family.— Gray
(N.S.W.).
Street Planning
Sydney residents are not the only
sufferers from a lack of street-planning
(B. 18/2/’53). Householders in Mel-
bourne’s newer suburbs are very much in
the same boat. Their most pressing
problem, however, is the condition of
unmade roads and footpaths, which con-
tinue to deteriorate despite frequent pro-
tests to local councils.
Long-suffering citizens, after enduring
a winter of bogged cars and ankle-deep
mud, would happily forgo the pleasure
of a tree-lined street for the sight of one
strip of bitumen. —S. N. P. (Vic.).
Soil Waste
Twelve months ago heavy rains in the
Childers area of South Queensland
washed hundreds of tons of rich, red
volcanic loam topsoil from the canefarms
into the gullies and streams, and stained
the sea red along the neighboring coast-
line.
In subsequent months owners of this
lost wealth turned their ploughs down
the hillsides in the same general pattern
their fathers had developed. The gully-
scars of erosion were partly removed by
the plough-lines and Nature’s reminders
of man’s folly were erased and her danger-
signals ignored.
Recent heavy rains have again opened
the ugly red scars and the swollen streams
again carried their red flood down to the
sea. Yet I can be sure that when next
in the Childers region I’ll see the dust
rising as the tractors chum their way up
and down the spurs in exactly the same
direction they took last year, and in the
years before that.
Every year more good cane-land is
taken out of production because erosion
has rendered it unsuitable for cultiva-
tion. To compensate for this loss more
and more marginal land is cleared for
the plough.
Surely the conservation of precious top-
soil of first-class lands is worth a little
thought and effort. —Pioi (Q.).


s
Features:
SILOS
• Heavy gauge galvanised sheets.
• Easily erected—permanent.
• Rodent and weatherproof.
• Extras available include: access
door, earthring, etc.
• Prompt delivery,
AUGERS
• Designed to fill and empty
Lysaght Silos.
• Segmented construction for easy,
assembly and versatility.
• Unique vertical filling avoids
congestion.
• Vertical sets complete with wall
brackets, chute tubes, etc.
CURRENT PRICES WORKS)
500 bushel silo ..
1000
2000 ■■
3000 „
3500 „
4500 ii ii
£7O
£llB
£lB2
£236
£259
.... £306
AUGERS ARE PRICED /S LOW AS £75/13/-
POPULAR TYPE FOR 2000 BUSHEL SILO, £lO3/18/- (Motors not provided)
Write for further information and agents' names to
LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
or JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD., in all capital chibs.
Milk
Production
Increased
df
Tri-Cal-Os is a most valuable mineral
supplement in stock feeding. Given to dairy
cows in the dry period means profitable
milking for four or five months longer.
Tri-Cal-Os is bone flour (containing 65%
tricalcic phosphate), and is very easily
t digested and assimilated.
OS
CM-
isW
flO 0 *
boH«
fho'.
I IK
65V.
jS?
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied —
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: GAO 80. 3583.
SYDNEY • GAO. Box 4058. MELBOURNE • GAO.
Box 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Box 758 K, BRISBANE
• G.P.O 80. 588, PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK 6l station agents
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
U.K. Meat Contract
“Oxo”: Queensland cattlemen
have long been pressing for a
premium for “chiller-type” cattle
exported under the U.K. meat
agreement, and the Australian
Meat Board is now considering
the age and weight of beef for
which such a premium should
be paid.
At a beef-grading demonstra-
tion in Brisbane, organised by
the Meat Board, the assistant
Chief Veterinary Officer, Depart-
ment of Commerce (Sydney),
E. N. Mylrea, suggested for
“choice” grade an age-limit of
3| years and weight-limit about
7001 b. chilled, dressed weight.
H. E. Tancred (Meat Board
member) thought the weight-
limit should be 7401 b. There had
been rapid strides in cattle-
breeding in Australia since the
chilled-beef trade was estab-
lished prior to the war, he said,
and with the bulls they were
now using they would get a lot
of 3y-year-old steers which
would dress 7001 b. or very close
to it. They could not expect to
put up g.-a.-q. beef, call it
“choice” and get away with it.
F. A. Brodie, another member
of the Meat Board, said their
idea was to get a grade defined
which would realise g.-a,-q. price
plus a premium, and it would be
useless to get a premium price
for something which they could
not produce in considerable
quantities. If they asked for a
premium for 3i-year-old cattle
weighing 7201 b. chilled, dressed
weight (the equivalent of about
6801 b. frozen weight) they
would be excluding most of the
south-west Queensland channel
country, the Gulf country and
most of the coastal cattle coun-
try, except the better-fattening
areas. He suggested an age-
limit of four years and a weight-
limit up to, but not oyer, 7401 b.
frozen-weight, with inspectors
given some latitude.
R. S. Wilson, a Gladstone
cattleman, said they desired
flexibility so that if a producer
had an extra-good carcass a
little over the age-limit it could
go into choice: the same applied
in regard to weight. Mylrea
said producers could rest assured
that when laying down a
“choice” grade it would not be
just a straight-out statement that
a carcass must be three or Bi-
years old ; certain characteristics
would be laid down, as was done
in the case of heifer-beef, and
such characteristics would be
found only in good carcasses
round about three to 3j years
old. When the age for heifer-
beef under the U.K. contract
had an upper limit of three years
there were arguments every-
where, but since that regulation
was amended, by leaving out the
age and laying down certain
characteristics, including “a
youthful appearance,” it had, on
the whole, worked well.
Sowing Pastures
“Rooster”: Seeds of reliable
pasture-plants are now too ex-
pensive to allow risk of failures.
Fallowing of the land, followed
by thorough preparation of the
seed-bed prior to seeding should
reduce the risk, but it is always
good policy to apply a liberal
“My turn be blowed —I carried home that prawn!”
quantity of super, when sowing
—for dairy pastures not less
than one bag per acre.
In Victoria autumn and early
spring are the usual sowing
times. When the sowing involves
the introduction of subterranean-
clover to build up soil-fertility
the seeding should be done in
the autumn; where clover is
already established and it is re-
quired to encourage perennial
species, sow in spring, provided
the district is not a dry one in
which hot weather may be ex-
pected before the pasture is
established.
The seed-mixture should con-
tain both grass and clover, and
any species which does well
under the existing local condi-
tions could be included. Seed-
ing-rates of pasture-mixtures in
Victoria vary according to
climatic and agronomic condi-
tions. On weed-free land in
lower-rainfall areas (lOin. to
20in.) the rates used are from
61b. to 151 b. per acre ; the richer
land in wetter districts (20in. to
30in.), where weed-competition
is expected, heavier amounts up
to 261 b. per acre are advisable.
If seed and superphosphate
are mixed and sown through the
fertiliser-box, the mixture should
be made up as the work pro-
ceeds ; any prolonged period be-
fore planting severely damages
the seed. Sow at from £in. to
£in. deep to protect from birds
and surface winds.
Fat Lamb Prize
“R. Ney”: A pioneer N.S.W.
fat-lamb raiser, Fred Carr, of
Chatsbury, Goulbum, won the
R.A.S. 1953 fat-lamb and carcass
championship. There were 56
entries, 36 more than last year.
Carr’s three exhibits were
carcasses of lambs by South-
down rams from Romney
Marsh-crossbred ewes. They
won a lOOgns. gold trophy pre-
sented by the Metropolitan Meat
Industry Board, and £2O in an
open-class competition.
Carr established his Romney
Marsh stud at Goulbum in 1910.
He has won many prizes at
Sydney sheep shows and in fat-
lamb competitions.
A trio of lambs by a South-
down ram won the strong novice-
breeders’ competition for J. E.
Roberts, Hillside, Cootamundra,
with an average frozen weight
of 341 b. The prize for three
carcasses of lambs sired by
Dorset Horn, Dorset Down,
Hampshire, Ryeland, Shropshire
or Suffolk rams was won by a
trio sired by Dorset Homs from
Romney Marsh-crossbred ewes,
shown by W. K. Cowlishaw,
Raymond Hill, Dubbo. Average
frozen weight was 361 b.
The judge said the 15
carcasses sired by longwool
rams was one of the outstanding
exhibits. The winning exhibit,
progeny of Border Leicester
rams from Border Leicester-
Merino ewes, entered by Godwin
Brothers, Alton Park', Mogriguy,
had an average frozen weight of
321 b.
Getting More Milk
“Sparrer”: No proof is re-
quired as suggested (B, 4/3/’53)
that the average dairy herd will
produce more milk with a
nourishing, fresh, young pasture.
And it’s wrong to think that
fresh, young growth of high
nutritional level can only be
obtained once a year.
Nor does such growth come
only after a fire. Subdivision of
paddocks or electric fencing,
with rotational grazing and intel-
ligent management, such as the
best dairyfarmers now practise,
can provide the herd with re-
current fresh, young pasture-
growth over a period as long as
there is warmth and moisture in
the soil.
Any dairyfarmer knows that
some cows produce more milk
than others on the same kind of
feed. It’s commonsense, and
more profitable, to try to feed
those individual cows best which
make the best response to in-
creasing levels of nutrition.
A 3001 b.-butterfat cow can
only be made from one which
has the hereditary capacity to
make highly efficient use of its
feed.
Pruning
“Breck”: As well as improv-
ing the shape of the tree, prun-
ing keeps it in better health, pro-
longs its life and reduces borer
onslaughts; flowering species
bear heavier blossom-crops.
Season for pruning varies.
Deciduous types should be cut
when the leaf-buds begin to swell
at the end of winter, ordinary
evergreens in early spring before
the new leaf-growth breaks
through, and flowering shrubs
and trees a week or so after they
have finished blooming.
Leading shoots of trees- with
a tall upright habit should not be
cut. Concentrate on the lateral
branches and trim symmetrically
in proportion to the rest of the
tree. To induce a low-spreading
growth cut back all upright
shoots regularly. The side-
growth will then take a circular
form.
Some trees and shrubs, mag-
nolias, flowering cherries, plums
and peaches, crab-apples, rhodo-
dendrons, azaleas, etc., do not
require regular pruning; thin-
ning-out of crowded and
straggly branches is sufficient.
Rhodes-grass
“Wen”: What Wimmera-rye
grass means to the southern half
of Australia, where winter rain-
fall is assured, Rhodes-grass can
mean to much of the northern
half, which has to depend largely


Lowest Priced Fully Jewelled
Shockproof Watch In Australia
With Leather Band.
WOT
fesa
m
&
0
0
M
• 17 Jewels.
• Lever action
• Swiss made.
• frostproof.
• Waterproof.
, • Non magnetic.
• Screw back.
• Luminous Diak\
• Red sweep hand.
• Written Guarantee.
• IncaWoc shockproof.
Stainless Steel Expanding Band 19/6 Extra.
Designed for rugged use in damp, dusty magnetized
and electrified areas, especially suitable for Doctors,
Farmers, Sailing Men. Mechanics and Truck Drivers.
With each watch is supplied the ORANO Gold Seal
of Quality and sells for the amazingly low price of
MAIL
ORDERS
Reg. Post Free
Mail Order Specialists
A.C.A. BUILDING, 66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Please forward by registered mail an *ORANO
for which I enclose
NAME
ADDRESS ........ ........
• WARNING; John Hay & Co. are the exclusive dis-
tributors of Orano watches in Tas., N.S.W. & Q’land.
For maximum security insist on
“BIRKMYRE”
TARPAULINS and
HORSE RUGS
made from the Scottish waterproof canvas
with the world-wide reputation for
' Dependability and Durability
Available from your local storekeeper
THE BIRKMYRE CANVAS COMPANY PTY. LTD.
S 5 Parramatta Road Concord. Sydney
146 Chetwynd Street, North Melbourne
r,f f with
s
Perfect Meals . . .
and Piping-Hot Water in
Kitchen and Bathroom!
It’s 9 wise husband who buys his wife an Aga, so they
both “live happily ever after”. With the two capacious
Aga ovens and the two efficient hot-plates you can
prepare the most wonderful meals, efficiently and
easily ; and so coolly, too —thanks to Aga’s insulation.
This amazing coke-burning Cooker is ready for service
day or night, yet its low fuel consumption is guaran-
teed! The Aga is also quite impervious to power
restrictions and blackouts. Furthermore, the Aga Model
C.B. gives you an efficient hot-water service, and
piping-hot baths every day, from the same single fiihen
THE
AGA
COOKER
10 YEARS GUARANTEE
The British-built Ago
is guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established In N.Z. In 1841)
Australian Agents
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA ______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ _ Chr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaida
TASMANIA A, g. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobdrt
WEST AUSTRALIAN A6ENTS MALLOCH BROS. Ltd., Perth
M
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
d
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE.
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
sdf
NO EMPTYING
'. ” '
•
NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street,
Established 22 years.
Sydney
DISTRIBUTORS: ”"TV
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 460 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.). Edment’s Building,
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: E. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St, Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Go. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radoleetrix Sales and Services.
SINGAPORE; British and Eastern Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers,
Raffles Place.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
on its summer rainfall to make
most of its pasture-growth.
Rhodes-grass is not, however,
just Rhodes-grass. Landholders
in the north who place great
dependence on this grass deserve
to have the best variety or type
obtainable.
The greatest diversity of types
in any crop or pasture generally
occurs in the country of its
origin, and some of the most
promising of these varieties or
forms have recently been col-
lected and propagated by the
Rhodesian Department of Agri-
culture.
One variety, Katembora, is
described as a tall and excep-
tionally leafy form, and the best
yet seen in that colony. Another
variety, Kongala, is a late-
flowering type, with thin folded
leaves, presenting promise of
drought-resistance.
Branding Cattle
“Old Harry”: Make sure
there are no strays in the mob
to be branded; nothing can be
more embarrassing than a neigh-
bor telling you that one of his
poddies wears your brand.
Brands are best made of
wrought-iron, although copper,
cast-iron or wood (using chemi-
cals) can be used. Two or
three brands on one handle
save time, but for first-class
work one at a time is the rule,
Brands must be hot enough
to leave a clear impression;
hotter for thick or wet coats,
Too hot a brand will blotch the
lot. Don’t put too much pres-
sure on the iron; experience
will teach the right touch. For
show- or stud-stock clip the
hair before branding.
All brands must be registered
with the Registrar of Brands in
Queensland, where the owner of
a registered brand may also
register a symbol-brand and an
earmark. An earmark cannot
be used without a registered
brand, but a symbol may be used
without the corresponding regis-
tered brand.
Each brand must be not less
than Uin. or more than 2^in.;
symbol-brands Hin. to 3in.
Positions are: 1, neck ;2, rump,
hip or thigh ; 3, rib ; 4, shoulder.
Subsequent or cross-branding
must be on the space under
previous brand if available ; if
not, then on the next position
and always on the same side.
Stock are deemed to be branded
with the registered brand which
appears to be the last brand
according to the prescribed
order.
For a big mob special gates in
the crush are essential for quick
work. A hardwood crate with a
strong, solid bottom, fastened
with strong hinges to the bottom
of the crush, so that the whole
thing can be turned over on its
side after the animal has been
secured in it, is very handy. A
rope-and-pulley makes easy lift-
ing after the job is done.
When no crush is available
throw the animal. If you intend
branding on the off-side throw
the beast on its near-side. When
it is down put your right leg
over its neck and sit on the
ground right close up to its
brisket. With your left leg over
the animal’s front legs place the
instep of your left foot against
its near hind-leg, at the same
time pushing its near hind-leg as
far back along the ground as
your left leg will allow. Held
in this position the animal can-
not move, but make sure your
assistant does not place the
brands upside-down.
More About Wilgas
“Hux”: Stands of wilgas of
any size yield good quantities of
honey strong in flavor and dark
in color. Wilgas which flower in
autumn supply the bees with
first-class winter stores.
Planted as an individual tree in
home grounds, the wilga makes
a fine ornamental. It is also
ideal for the back or middle row
of windbreaks. Height varies
from 20ft. to 30ft. Soils most
suitable for it are deep sandy
loams, heavy alluvials or red soil.
Farmers who wish to grow the
tree should note that germina-
tion of ripe seed, sown the year
it is gathered, will average about
90 per cent. Soak for a few
hours in hot, not boiling, water
before planting. Seedbox should
be shallow, the bottom covered
with a layer of rubble to provide
drainage and the soil a mixture
of two-thirds sand and one-third
loam. Covering-layer of earth
over the seeds should not be
more than iin. thick.
Hints for the Farm
“Old Nick”: Young plants
grown from onion-seed sown in
summer will be ready for plant-
ing-out about August, Early
preparation of onion-beds allows
the soil to firm up, and the crop
makes better growth. Dig the
area deeply. If the soil is acid
add lime at the rate of 4oz. per
square yard; where the rainfall
average is low reduce to 3oz.
“Quorn”: Care of tree-seed-
lings planted round the farm is
essential. Guards against damage
should be at least 12in. in
diameter and about 18in. high.
Remove all weeds around each
plant to a distance of about
2ft. Weeds take a lot of mois-
ture and plant-food, and losses
are high when weeding is
neglected.
“Fabre”: Sunlight quickly
deteriorates cotton-cloth or bur-
lap used in shading seedbeds,
etc. Lead-chromate is the most
effective treatment for the cloth,
making it last for use over
several seasons.
“Cucumis”: As part of an
experiment to demonstrate the
need for bees in pollinating rock-
melons American agronomists
recently grew these melons in
plots caged to exclude the bees.
Only four melons were obtained
from 160 plants.
“Cas”: When the bees’ stores
have to be supplemented by
sugar-syrup-feeding make a thick
syrup of three parts of sugar to
one part of water. Addition of a
tablespoon of tartaric acid to
every 501 b. of syrup prevents the
syrup granulating in the combs.
Get this done before th 6 end of
March. Feeding the sugar syrup
to the bees at the one time fore-
stalls any likelihood of brood-
rearing, which is stimulated when
feeding extends over a period.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
No serious rain is expected until after Easter. The recent
rains were interesting from a long-range point of view
since, as in February, a quite moderate rain expectation
was intensified, either by some remnants of the early March
rains already displaced or possibly from a drift of some
rain which showed as far south as Bundaberg.
In West Australia the position is interesting, as the
drought in the north and north-west is still troublesome,
and there the cycle shows a possibility of good rains with
their maximum point at or near Cossack and sweeping
through to the goldfields.


* >
jm
WmssM
m
1M
4
P
ti\s*
f
sf*M,<
mm
WM.
sSss
m
In steep, rough, dense country
MOBILCO CHAIN SAW can be carried
.. . i
and operated without effort.
FELLS CLOSE TO THE GROUND
AND CROSS-CUTS ON THE SPOT
MOBILCO
BE-BO ONE MAN CHAIN SAW
Dependable 5 b.h.p. engine packs the power you need to fell and cross-cut
hard Australian timbers all day long. This machine is so light, only 38 lbs.,
that It becomes part of you . . . goes anywhere you can go to cut the timber
you want, wherever it grows. You can buy for cash or on terms and you can
get a machine straight away if you place your order promptly.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE; LF 4209 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES - - - BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
AGENTS ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
BERNIE THE BULL
By JAN STEWART
a I TS a funny thing,” said
“Andy” Anderson as he
| contemplated his empty
beerglass, “the way a
little bloke’ll want to have a go
at a bloke twice his size after a
few grogs, yet most big fellers I
know are placid as sleepy cows
when they’re full.
“Early last summer me and
Blue here was helping to burn
fire-breaks in the Pilliga Forest
near Baradine. The bloke in
charge was a dirty big cuss
named Batson. We called him
‘Smoky.’ He was wide as a
haystack, and when I shook
hands with him it was like being
crushed in a wool-press.
“Jeez, he was strong. He
knew it, too, and liked to show
off his strength. Walking
through the bush, if there was a
small tree in his way he’d put
his shoulder to it and nudge it
over like a great blooming
elephant.
“He didn’t give a damn about
any of us as long as we did what
he wanted. If you didn’t like
being ordered about by him you
didn’t dare do nothing. You
just cleared out. He could be
mean as a mating magpie when
anyone argued with him, but
most times he was easy to get
on with.
“Smoky was touchy as hell
about the fact that his hair was
falling out. He used to wear an
old felt hat all the time, even
when he was sitting round the
fire at nights yarning, and before
hitting the sack he ? d rub every
blooming ‘hair tonic’ and ‘bald-
ness cure’ you could think of
into his scalp. And he used to
try out every new one he saw
advertised.
“We used to reckon it was
optimists like Snowy that kept
these ‘baldness - cure’ blokes
going. All they had to do was
change the label on their stuff
every month and they’d make a
blooming fortune.
“Well, one night the boys was
having Gin’er Thomas on about
his red hair, which they reckoned
was dangerous and might cause
a bushfire. ‘Any rate. I’d
rather have what I’ve got than
damn-all like Baldy Batson
there,’ he says. Then, reckoning
he’d gone a bit far, he said
hurriedly: ‘No offence * Smoky.’
“But Smoky was madder than
a cornered wild pig. He charged
over to where Gin’er was lying,
eased the toe of his enormous
boot against Gin’er’s stomach
and catapulted him a good
twenty feet through the air into
the side of a truck, like you
would with a small dog that had
nipped your ankle.
“Gin’er was lucky to get
away without any broken bones.
After that nobody but a fool’d
mention Smoky’s baldness when
he was around.
i 6 YOU know how stinking
* hot it was last year, even
in September. The grass, the
scrub and the tree-tops was all
brittle-dry. We’d light a few
tufts of grass, then rake them
through the bush to start a fire
burning the way we wanted.
She’d burn pretty fierce and if
there was a bit of a breeze about
she’d flare up like she’d been
sprayed with petrol.
“We used to keep a fire-
engine handy in case the wind
changed and the fires got out of
control. The bloke that drove
it was a queer little cuss. He
can’t have been out in the bush
long, since his arms was thin and
white like the branches of a
young gum. Yet his fac,e was
pretty weatherbeaten. Some of
the blokes reckoned he must’ve
been at sea; but he never said
that he had.
“He used to carry a bottle of
whisky in his pocket. Doctor’s
orders, he said, for medicinal
purposes. He must’ve been
pretty sick, the way he grogged
on. Yet he wasn’t ever really
full at the camp or on the job.
“He used to reckon that when
he was completely shicker he
got fighting mad and warned us
that it’d take three strong men
to hold him down if he ever
decided to towel any of us up.
He said he hoped he wouldn’t
cause any trouble, but if he did
he said we ought to hit him over
the head with a bottle. This,
he said,. was the only way to
quiet him down. Seeing as how
he was such a weed no one took
him seriously but we nicknamed
him ‘Bernie the Bull,’ Bernie
Jones being his real name.
“Bernie once told me he
didn’t drink much now since the
time he walloped some New
Australian and almost murdered
him. He said it was in a pub in
Sydney and he’d got into. an
argument with this bloke because
v he was trying to make love to
the barmaid, who was a
particular friend of Bernie’s.
“ ‘He pulled a knife on me,’
said Bernie. ‘So I took it off
him and then punched him
about a bit. I went round for
days scared as hell his cobbers’d
do me in.’
“The way Bernie told it he
had to beat the sheilas off with
a stick. He’d read somewhere
that little blokes was more
virile than big blokes and he
used to reckon that his experi-
ences had borne this out.
“Any rate, Bernie knew how
to handle the fire-engine and he
used to treat it like a cocky
treats his champion bull. He’d
spend hours cleaning and polish-
ing it and tinkering with the
engine. Never known much
about trucks and things myself,
but it seemed he kept it in
pretty good nick.
sctsTE’D been on the job
* * about a week when the
wind blew up a bit. Smoky
thought we could use the wind
to burn a break back to one of
the roads that ran through the
forest. He said the fire would
burn itself out when it hit the
road. So we set our fire in
front of the wind and sent
Bernie and his engine to see she
didn’t jump the road.
“The way that fire raced
through the forest even Dalray
would’ve been left for dead.
We sprung a few brumbies and
’roos, and most of the poor
blooming things got their hides
scorched before they got away.
“She hit the road, and it
looked like everything was going
to be all right and we could give
it away and go back to the camp
for dinner. Then an extra big
gust of wind flicked a tuft of
burning grass right across the
road. By the time me and Blue
had run across to stamp it out
the flames had flared out over
about fifty square-feet. They
slithered through the grass and
up the trees and it looked to me
like we’d need every fire-brigade
from the Queensland border to
Albury to stop her.
“Smoky bellowed for Bernie
and told him to drive round in
front of the fire and do what he
could to stop it. We went with
him, but when we saw the fire-
balls , curling through the air
from tree-top to tree-top we
knew we didn’t have a show.
Some of the bushes was so dry
they’d explode into flame like
a piece of celluloid.
“Still, we thought we’d give
it a go and turned a couple of
hoses on the fire. The flames
was so blooming fierce and the
wind was so strong that the
water was raining back on us
almost boiling hot. I could
smell mine and Blue’s hair burn-
ing and then the grass round the
fire-engine caught fire.
“Bernie suddenly gave a yelp,
leapt out of the fire-engine and
shot through into the forest.
Me and Blue reckoned it was
just about time to make tracks,
but as neither of us could drive
we had to leave the engine and
run like hell.
“When we told him what had
happened, Smoky just made one
comment that seemed to sum
things up pretty well.
“Well, the rest of the day we
worked like one-armed shearers
to grade a break in front of the
runaway fire. Then, as she
came towards us, we lit the
bush in front of our break. The
two fires were sucked together,
and when they met a column of
thick, black smoke shot up into
the air like a pocket atom-bomb
had gone off.
“After that there was nothing
left to burn and we sprayed
water on the smouldering logs so
there wouldn’t be anything left
that could start another fire.
I’d forgotten all about Bernie
and suddenly realised I hadn’t
seen him since he bolted from
the fire-engine like one of them
frightened brumbies we seen
earlier.
“I said to Smoky I reckoned
Bernie must’ve been still run-
ning ; and he just grunted. Any
rate, we all piled into a truck and
headed for the nearest pub, at
Baradine. My mouth was as
dry as a dirt-road in December
and I reckon everybody else’s
was the same.
“Joe, the pubkeeper at the
place where we usually drank,
saw us coming and had set up a
round of schooners by the time
we barged into the bar. Jeez,
that first beer tasted good.
“Well, we was in the mood
for some solid drinking and we
must have gone through quite
a few schooners. We’d all got
pretty shicker when the beer ran
out. Nobody’d believe Joe
when he said he didn’t have a
drop of tap- or bottled-beer in
the place, and he had to take
the crowd of us down to the
cellar and show us all his empty
kegs, or we’d have torn the pub
apart. Then we all cursed him
and the breweries and shot
through to the town’s other pub,
where the beer was still on, even
though it was only ‘Mad Annie,’
which some prefer but I don’t.
6 * WHO A l 6 should we see
when we went into the
bar but Bernie, full as a bull.
“ ‘G’day, you little yeller
cuss,’ says Smoky. ‘We thought
you’d ’ve been in the Territory
by now.’
“Bernie had a glass of whisky
in his hand and he threw it
straight at Smoky. Smoky sur-
prised us and himself by catching
the glass and he grinned and
handed it to the barmaid.
‘Schooners for the boys,’ he says.
‘And you better put this glass
away. The little yeller cuss is
probably still shaking so much
he’ll drop it.’
“Teetering like a new-born
calf, Bernie took a couple of
steps forward. Then by work-
ing his way along the shoulders
of the blokes standing at the
bar, he managed to haul him-
self across the room until he
was standing in front of Smoky.
Every so often he’d start to
topple and Smoky’d have to
grab his arms and stand him up
straight again.
“ ‘Who shez’m yeller?’ Bernie
bellows in Smoky’s face, his
head rolling like he was punchy.
‘Who shez sho? D’you, Baldy?’
“Well, when he calls Smoky
‘Baldy,’ I reckoned he was a
goner. I thought Smoky’d wipe
the floor with him; but Smoky
just leaned back against the bar
and giggled like an abo. kid.
So, after eyeing Smoky a while in
silence, Bernie staggered back a
pace, then taking careful aim he
uncorked an uppercut that
started at floor-level and ended
somewhere behind his neck.
His bony little fist burned
through the air about a yard
from Smoky’s face, then his
legs followed in the same direc-
tion and he landed flat on his
back.
“Smoky couldn’t stand up
straight for laughing and he slid
helplessly along the bar knock-
ing glasses everywhere. I went
to lift Bernie back onto his feet
and found he’d flaked out, so
we parked him in a chair and he
was still there when we left the
pub to go back to the camp.
6 6-OERNIE didn’t turn up at
the camp the next day or
the day after that, and everybody
reckoned he was too ashamed
to show his face after all the
tales he’d told us of his cleaning
up blokes in every pub west of
Byron Bay.
“Then about three days after
Bemie’s poor showing in defence
of his claims to the Australian
bar-flyweight title against
Smoky Batson in the Baradme
pub, I run into him in Coona-
barabran, where I’d gone to get
some gear I couldn’t get in
Baradine. t
“‘Where the hell you been?’
I says to Bernie. ‘We got the
fire-engine back but nobody to
drive it. The wind drove the
fire through so fast that after a
paint job and with new tyres she
ought to be right as rain.
“ ‘Jeez,’ says Bernie. You
mean I’ve still got my job?
That Smoky can’t be so bad
after all. You’d Ve thought
he’d give me the boot for sure
after the lashing I gave him m
the pub the other night.


ACROSS THE PARALLEL
The authentic story of the 77th Squadron, R.A.A.F.
by GEORGE ODGERS
Second printing.
A book every Australian should possess.
The first to describe the air war in Korea. A stirring account of the exploits
of Australian pilots, written with humour, pathos and drama.
At all booksellers, 19/6 : : HEINEMANN
THE OLD MAN AND THE
SEA
by Ernest Hemingway
Hemingway’s new work of fiction is
the story of a young boy, an old
man, and a giant fish. Recom-
mended by the Book Society.
9/6 (post 9d.)
CALLED BACK
by Philip Gibbs
Laid against the Anglo-American
background which Philip Gibbs re-
creates so well, this novel concerns
the return home of a young
American airman.
13/6, (post lid.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
NOW READY
THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SID BARNES
IT ISN’T CRICKET
SID BARNES, 16/-
FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
COLLINS
PUBLISHERS
A Priestley Experiment
J. B. Priestley, in an introduction to v
Dragon’s Mouth —A Dramatic Quartet
in Two Parts (Heinemann), by himself
and Jacquetta Hawkes, explains care-
fully that this is not a play in the accepted
theatrical sense, but a “platform piece.”
It is intended to be acted (and has in
England been produced successfully) in
halls and small playhouses of a type
which, by their very nature, are often
antipathetic to the atmosphere of con-
ventional plays.
The piece calls for no scenery, special
costumes, music or props of any kind
except for four microphones into which
the four characters speak.
The purpose of these microphones is
not, however, to overcome faulty
acoustics or poorly-produced voices.
Their proper use is to enhance the speech
—to allow the actors to whisper, to orate
or to speak normally in an intimate way.
But Dragon’s Mouth is not a “radio
play”—the actors still have to act and
they must suggest their characters while
anchored by their microphones to a com-
paratively small area of stage.
The play itself, in two parts, is a
series of discussions between four people,
two men and two women, quarantined on
a yacht. A mysterious and deadly plague
has already killed two of the crew. The
port authorities have taken blood-tests ;
meanwhile the people on the yacht await
news, realising, in the first part, that they
might all be infected and about to die.
In the second part the radio has broken
down just as they have been informed
that one of the four is infected-—the other,
three free. They wait this time for a
launch from the port. Until its arrival
there is no way of knowing which char-
acter is to die.
Each character represents one of the
four “functions”—Thinking, Feeling,
Sensation and Intuition —which the
philosopher Jung considers must be
balanced in any well-integrated person-
ality. They debate many topics in the
course of the play, but the main theme
is that of man versus woman; not only
the “battle of the sexes” in its simplest
terms, but also the conflict between
members of the same sex.
The authors, who make use of some
very lengthy monologues, admit a debt
to Shaw but, rightly, disclaim his direct
influence. The speeches are well- and
often beautifully-written. Some passages
could easily be set out in verse form.
This reader cannot quite see how the
drama on stage would retain its interest.
However, one must accept Mr, Priestley’s
assurance that overseas audiences of very
varied types have found it satisfying,
provocative and moving, and have
“listened with an intentness rarely felt
now in the theatre.”
Reviewed Briefly
Black Earth: Hans Habe (Australasian).
In his latest novel the Hungarian author
tells the story of Bela Sulyok, born a
serf on a huge estate in Hungary, from the
’thirties until after World War 11. Here
the facts are infinitely less credible than
the fiction: it is not easy to a' imadse
oneself to the medieval atmosphere of
rural Hungary after the futile attempts
at reform that followed World War I
had been forgotten. Peasants belong body
and soul to aristocratic owners, and
aristocrats truly believe that they, by
right, possessed even the souls (if they
lad them) of their peasants. The Coun-
tess Margit, whose life-story is bound
with Sulyok’s, is equally with him a vic-
tim of their outmoded society. Both their
tragedies arise from the same causes, but
from varying emphases. Sulyok, the
idealist, becomes an unwitting pawn of
Communist Russia in his efforts to effect
agrarian reforms for the Hungarian
peasantry. His destiny of failure, dis-
illusion, disgust and death is inevitable.
The novel as a whole is a most powerful
and bitter indictment of any form of
social organisation which prevents indi-
viduals from thinking and acting for
themselves.
* * * *
The Password: James Reeves (Heine-
mann). These poems, acknowledged to
the “Listener,” the “New Statesman,”
etc., are clear, pleasant and surprisingly
thin as they wander through the familiar
territories of love, gardens and the
English countryside. There is much more
force, though its final impact is some-
times dissipated in the loose beat of
incantation, in Kathleen Raine’s The
Year One (Hamilton) —poems mostly
located in the bleak hills of Scotland and
the Border; Miss Raine has looked
deeper into “the abyss That now and
always underlies the hills.” •
* * * *
Edwin Chadwick and the Public Health
Movement, 1832-1854: R. A. Lewis
(Longmans). Chadwick, against much
opposition, forced the first Public Health
Act onto the British statute book. His
life was governed by what he called the
“Sanitary Idea.” A puritan and an arch-
bureaucrat, he was not altogether an
amiable figure; yet he had sterling
virtues of the sterner kind, thought very
high-mindedly about drainage and similar
problems and, as Mr. Lewis points out in
this scholarly and instructive biography,
was in advance of his times in his theories
of bureaucratic centralisation —which,
however, will not be regarded by all
readers as a point in his favor. The book
is an excellent portrait of the unbending
and limited idealist and gives a striking
picture of the difficulties everyone must
surmount who tries to get anything done
in politics.
« * * *
Across the Parallel: George Odgers
(Heinemann). In this record of missions
flown by the Australian Double-Seven
Squadron in Korea, it has been the
mission of the author, at present working
on a volume of the R.A.A.F. Official
History, to jolt his countrymen into some
awareness of the fact that our pilots are
fighting a very real war in the U.N.’s
“police-action.” He outlines the
squadron’s efforts competently enough,
in a factual, journalistic sort of way, but
the flash and clash of diving, strafing,
bombing—the hideous searing effect of
exploding napalm—is absent.
* * * *
Annapurna: Maurice Herzog (Cape).
The story of the French expedition which
climbed Annapurna in the Himalayas in
1950 —the highest summit (8000 metres)
ever achieved, though the English climber
Frank Smythe reached 8500 metres on
Everest. Herzog was the leader of the
expedition and wrote his book in the U.S.
Military Hospital at Neuilly ; the trans-
lation is by Nea Morin and Janet Adam
Smith. Typically French in its clear,
vivid prose and its emotional intensity,
it is about as dramatic an account of
mountaineering as anyone could hope to
read, particularly in the descent from the
summit when the two conquerors of the
mountain race down through the snow-
storms of the monsoon, frost-bitten,
dazed in the rarefied air, camping in a
crevasse for the night and losing their
boots when an avalanche half-fills their
shelter, tumbling headlong down the
slopes in another avalanche, losing their
way, violently disputing about the route,
resigning themselves to death, going
blind ; and then, when all members of
the party and their Nepalese carriers are
together again, having to face, as well as
the storms and avalanches, huge rivers
flooded by the monsoon.
* * * *
Plowmen’s Clocks: Alison Uttley
(Faber). Little essays of the English
countryside, mostly based on childhood
reminiscences. Shoulders of bacon hang-
ing from hooks in the kitchen ; copper
kettles, snow, Christmas, ghosts, folklore,
herbs, wildflowers, donkeys and roasted
chestnuts —all the old ingredients, cooked
with delicacy and intense sympathy and
served with unfailing charm.
* * * *
The Watcher and the Red Deer :
Richard Perry (Hodge). A nature-book
of exceptional interest and quality: watch-
ing (without shooting) the red deer
through the four seasons in the Scottish
Highlands, by day and by night, in sun-
light and in snow—“ Twelve hundred
stags! One in every ten a master of
masters. From how many deer forests,
and from how many miles distant had
these stags made their way to these tradi-
tional summer pastures?—this undulating,
down-like tundra, seamed with deep
watercourses, which were still blocked
with solid drifts of snow scores of yards
long and five or six feet deep, and shelv-
ing gently or steeply up to equally seamed
and corried hills.” One of the oddities the
book reveals is that in the season when
they are shedding their antlers the deer
will eat the bones of rabbits, even the
skeletons and discarded antlers of their
own kind.
* * * *
A Dutchman at Large: Johan Fabri-
cius (Heinemann). This autobiography
of the Dutch novelist contains a devastat-
ing chapter on catching trout at an
Anglers’ Club in California where you
stand around a lake outside the restaurant
catching small fish with a float and bait,
then send the results in to be cooked and
get them back several sizes larger. But
fortunately that shock is near the end,
and the rest of it—Fabricius was born in
Java and has travelled extensively every-
where—is very pleasant light gossipy
travel-writing, at its best in Java and
Bali, China and Japan.
* * * *
Spectator Harvest: recent articles and
poems from the “Spectator,” with a fore-
word by the editor, Wilson Harris
(Hamish Hamilton). Contributors include
Peter Fleming, Stephen Spender, Gilbert
Murray, Neville Cardus, Jean Paul Sartre
and Harold Nicolson. There is some-
thing for all tastes—literary criticism,
sport, travel and the English scene gener-
ally—and everything is written with that
quiet good taste and authority character-
istic of a newspaper which has become
a national institution. This year —the
reason for the book—the “Spectator”
celebrates its 125th anniversary.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 218
Across.
I—Caper1—Caper with ego and pop the
rightist tending to forestall. (12)
9 —Wise skirmish is a feature of
the cowboy country. (9)
10— A hundred join the socialistic
split. (5)
11— Invite. (3)
12 — Blizzards are a feature of trumpet
lessons among Eskimos. (3,' 6)
13 — Measure is Havelock. (5)
14— Pulls faces for aeronauts of stern
demeanor. (8)
16—Make an Arab mount a fish
hook? (4)
19— Sound of a bell interruption to
traffic between Sydney and North
Sydney. (4)
20 — Buy leverage with Charles among
the unsullied. (8)
23 — Italian river runs around the
torrid snap. (5)
24 A fling to the boundary seats
marked “D.” (6, 3)
26 — French king. (3)
27 — Ring Margaret before getting ft
final letter. (£)
28 — Bring a lamp or a torch, quickly,
quickly! (9)
29 More Chatham-like gabble of a
comedian sound of rainfall. (6-6)
Down.
1 — Four-footer to sicken a six-footer
attacker. (9)
2 Touchwood game. (5)
3 Firm sea is blue. (B)
4 Land noted for its blue and its
deadly acid. (7)
5 An expression of gratitude has
weaver-birds. (5)
6 Crook activity makes a big noise
bat for old coyrt personalities. (6)
7 Parent set up for spouses finishes
the chess game. (5)
8 — Tattler story about a pippin-
splitting archer. (4-4)
14 — The girl bounded along and
travelled at top speed. (8)
15 — Mongrel councillor swallows you.
(3)
17— Retaw billabong. (9)
18 — Fellow goes to the cashbox with
a Spanish veil. (8)
21 —Cur rose in disorderly style as a
runner. (7)
22 N.S.W. town in which I croak.
(6)
23 — Craft upset swimming enclosures.
(5)
24 Prime tree street. (5)
25 This isn’t left faultless in girth.
(5)
Solution to Crossword No. 217


Crop
Weeds
Herbicide
Amount
to use
Remarks
Wheat
Oats
Barley
Kyo
Animals
Wild radish
and turnip
Thistles
2,4-1} any
form or
M.C.P.A.
4-8 or.
per arr«
Crop should be well
established 8 Inches
high and stooling
bat prior to heading.
Perennials
(temporary
control only)
Skeleton Weed
2, 4-D amino
8-12 02.
per aero
Crop must be well
established — 8 Ins
high and treil-sl-noled
but prior to head-
inff. aud may suffer
some damage.
Hoary Cress
2, 4-D amine
or M.C.F.A.
12-18 ox.
per acre
J'a*tnre
Weeds
HorbtcJd*
Aimuuns
to use
Ucmatita
Perennial
species
(Well estab-
lished but;
not includ-
ing lucerne)
Thistles, burrs
untl other
susceptible
animats
2, 4-I> any
lorn*
V-lS «b.
per nor*
Clovers will be
severely damaged
l.»nt will recover.
Intermediate
rpocies
2. 4-D any
form
li.S lb,
pec acre
Ester* generally
give better control.
Effect on clovers
Is drastic.
Wlmmera
Kye. Sub
clover
Thistles, other
susceptible
annuals
2, 4-li or
JLCJ.A,
a-ii ib,
D*>V UVTQ
Do not spray until
clover is well
established.
N.S.W.; Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND; Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Ltd., Adelaide ; Stockowners’ Co-operative
Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co,
Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
This entire page is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED
March
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1953
Increased Primary Production a
National Necessity!
Government Announces
5-year Production Plan
The Fullest expansion of the Primary Industries, which in
1951-52 accounted for more than 90% of Australian Export
income, has been urged by some of the world’s top-ranking
economists.
Mr. Colin Clark, noted Australian economist, and now Agricultural
Economics Research Director at Oxford University, recently predicted
that world primary produce prices will continue to rise until 1970, and
that therefore Australia has a tremendous opportunity for development of
primary production.
The Commonwealth Government
hopes that primary production, on
today’s market prices, will increase
Australia’s export income by £ 100
million within 5 years. Mr. J. G.
Crawford, on behalf of the Govern-
ment, stressed that ample markets
are available for this increased pro-
duction, and he is confident that
production targets set for the next
5 years will be reached.
The part played by scientific ad-
vances in crop and pasture improve-
ment is therefore receiving increasing
attention by Government bodies.
NEW HORMONE SPRAYS AID
PRODUCTION DRIVE
During the past year there has
been an enormous increase in the
use of the new Hormone weedkillers
for both crops and pasture lands.
Throughout the Commonwealth, and
notably in South and West Australia,
their effectiveness in preventing
weed growth and therefore increas-
ing production has been clearly
demonstrated.
A spokesman for one of Sydney’s
leading Hormone Spray manufac-
turers states that “production of our
Crop and Pasture Hormone Weed-
killers has doubled every year for
the past three years.”
In West Australia and South Aus-
tralia alone, in excess of half-a-
million acres of cereal crops were
sprayed with hormone weedicides
alone, last season.
A N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture
spokesman says: “Hormones have
revolutionised the approach to com-
bating skeleton weed, wild turnip,
wild radish and similar weeds.” The
sprays have achieved spectacular re-
sults against Bathurst and Noogoo-
rah Burr on grazing lands, saving
graziers many thousands of pounds.
First introduced to Australia ex-
perimentally only 6 years ago, it was
recently estimated that already the
value of hormone weedicides used
had exceeded £1 million!
A South Australian wheatgrower
described how heavy weed growth
in his crop “clogged up the drum
and wrecked my header.” However,
after spraying his crop with 2,4 r D
Hormone Spray when stooling and
about 8 inches high, weed growth
was completely halted, and a record
yield was recorded.
CONTROL OF WEED PESTS
HAMPERED BY COSTS
While the use of weedicide sprays,
together with modem crop rotation
and pasture improvement methods,
had been proved highly successful,
their full utilisation has until recently
been impeded by lack of cheap, ef-
fective spraying equipment.
The Moffat-Virtue organisation,
aware of this problem, set its ex-
perts to work. They developed the
now famous M.V. Roller Spray
Plant, a light, compact, portable
unit capable of delivering high pres-
sure, low volume sprays for many
purposes.
A view of the M.V.
BOOM-SPRA Y
unit, mounted on a
truck. The M.V.
Roller Spray Plant,
a portion of which is
visible, is mounted
behind the cab. The
unit is fully covered
by the Moffat-Virtue
Warranty.
Here’s how HORMONES
can help you ..
The N.S.W. Department of Agriculture make the following recom-
mendations, based on local and overseas experience, but add the
following rider: “ In most cases research (into hormones) is incom-
plete, and changes must be expected from time to tirpe.” Before
you use hormones we suggest you contact your nearest District
Agronomist, or the Department of Agriculture in your own State.
They will give you complete details.
TABLE “A”: SELECTIVE WEED CONTROL IN FIELD CROPS
Foot Notes: 1. Kates of application are given in terms of 2,4-D or M.C.P.A. acid
equivalent. 2. Esters should not he used at rates In excess of the minimum of the
ranges indicated. 3. Binitro compounds are not at present available but will
probably be marketed in the near future.
TABLE “B”: SELECTIVE WEED CONTROL IN PASTURES
Foot Notes: 1. Rates are given in terms of 2,4-0 or M.0.P.A, acid equivalent.
2. Egters should not he used at more than three-quarters of the maximum rate
indicated. 3. Pastures generally should not be sprayed during the year of estab-
lishment. 4. Well established sub clover, white clover and red clover will stand up
to 31b. of M.C.P.A. or 2,4-I> salts per acre and will usually recover after 1 lb, Other
clovers and trefoils are very susceptible. 5. Spraying is supplemental to adequate
fertilisation and proper management.
THE NEW M.V. BOOM SPRAY
To give the amazing little Roller Spray Plant increased versatility, and
adapt it to the needs of large-scale Hormone Crop or Pasture Spraying,
Moffat-Virtue Engineers designed and built the new M.V. Boom Spray
Unit. A high-pressure, low-volume spray is a necessity for hormone
weed-killer spraying.
With the new Boom Spray
and Roller Spray Plant mounted
on a truck, 1 1 6 Acres may be effec-
tively sprayed in a normal day (at
4 m.p.h.) ! The combination of High
Pressure and Low Volume with
this M.V. Spray Equipment means
full and effective Penetration, plus
Economy through elimination of
excessive waste by wind-drift or
over-use of the valuable spray
materials.
FULL UTILITY IN DESIGN OF
BOOM SPRAY
The Boom Spray Unit consists of a
rugged all-steel 30ft. span boom,
extending both sides of your truck
—with 19 high-pressure, low-
volume nozzles spaced evenly
along it. The nozzles are over-
head-mounted, so that valuable
weedicides are not wasted when
the unit is stopped, and nozzles
cannot be knocked off or damaged.
The boom may be attached to front
or rear of any truck, trailer or trac-
tor.
Featuring an exclusive Gravity
Hinge design, the two boom arms
may be swung back and attached
to the vehicle when not in use. The
two sections yield automatically to
any obstruction, and swing back to
position under their own weight
when clear, locking firmly in the
normal position. Both ends are
fitted with strong skids, which pre-
vent damage when the boom hits a
rise in the ground.
The Boom Spray Unit can be easily
adapted for spraying weedicides,
fungicides, insecticides and trace
elements. It has proved of great
help in burning firebreaks and can
be used by Local Government and
Railway authorities for combating
insect plagues, cleaning up weeds
on stock routes, sides of roads, rail-
way lines, etc.
The famous M.V. Roller Spray
plant used as a separate unit is ideal
for general orchard and vegetable
spraying, for banana spraying, anti-
tick cattle spraying, sheep jetting,
even for whitewashing shed walls,
etc.
Further particulars may be ob-
tained about the M.V. Boom Spray
Unit and Roller Spray Plant Equip-
ment from any df the distributors
listed below.
