

FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS
BUY SEPPELTS SOLERO SHERRY
The Bulletin
ROSE LINDSAY’S MEMOIRS
‘The Bulletin,” VoL 74—No. 3810
Wednesday, February 18, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
IN THE CATHEDRAL HIS DEATH
HELPED TO BUILD LIES THE
TOMB OF EDWARD II
(~\NE of the many interesting and
important monuments in
Gloucester Cathedral is the magnifi-
cent tomb of King Edward 11, who
was murdered in 1327 at Berkeley
Castle.
Edward 11, born in 1284, was the
first of the English crown princes to
bear the title, Prince of Wales. He
succeeded his father to the throne in
1307, but, being weak and incapable,
his reign was one long record of his
struggles with the barons. In 1326
Isabella, the queen, who had been in
France with her son, Edward, re-
turned at the head of an army and
deposed the king, who was sent as a
prisoner to Berkeley Castle. After a
period of imprisonment in one of the
dungeons, he was murdered in such
a way that no exterior marks of vio-
lence could be seen.” After several
abbeys had refused burial, the Abbot
of Gloucester came in procession to
Berkeley, received the body, which
was then buried on the north side of
the choir of Gloucester Cathedral.
After a few years the dead king
came to be regarded as a martyr and
pilgrims flocked to his shrine from
all parts of the country. From the
vast income derived from the pil-
grims the Cathedral was recon-
structed and Edward 111 built the
beautiful tomb above his father’s
resting place, illustrated here, which
consists of an intricate canopy over
an alabaster effigy of the murdered
king.


E*.
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
'CUT HERE AND
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(8.8. 153) Age
The Red Page
TIME OF THE ASSASSINS
Godfrey Blunden’s first novel. No
More Reality, was typical of first novels
selected by the indefatigable Jonathan
Cape ; the work of a young man sophisti-
cated enough to know all the methods,
but not sufficiently practised to have
found a method of his own. In the long
space between that brilliant, if confused,
study of an Australian country town,
Mr. Blunden went to Russia as a war-
correspondent and, presumably, thought
a great deal about writing, because his
next book, A Room on the Route (1947),
though still not an integrated piece of
construction, seemed clear, poised and
definite in intention.
Although A Room on the Route was
a dark study of the dangers of being a
war-correspondent and a Rusisaii, especi-
ally a Russian, in Moscow during the
recent war, there were patches in it of
humor and irony: it was a warm and
humane series of portraits of Russians
from the point of view of an Australian
used to a more cheerful and easy personal
freedom, of course, but able to see
Russians as ordinary human-beings,
hampered by the disease of dictatorship
and war, screwed down by fear of the
inquisition and of being sent to Siberia,
but still able to joke in private, and still
capable of being saved. His latest book,
The Time of the Assassins (Lippincott;
1952), is a new development altogether.
One of the new styles of picture in-
vented by the surrealists is of streets,
apparently of bare boards, stretching into
infinity, and hung along their length with
incongruous objects; the effect is of
starkness, coldness, complete inhumanity,
as though all emotion had been drained
out of the work ; and as Dr, Karandash,
spy and collaborator with the Germans,
a kind of cultural Quisling, steps out in
his Homburg hat into the empty streets
of recently-captured Kharkov in 1941,
Blunden’s prose sets the tone of his
novel: * —
He walked across the plaza, his footsteps
echoing hollowly against the tall buildings.
He thought he detected, in the distance,
some slight sound, and now walked towards
the source. He turned into a long thorough-
fare which he remembered as the Sumskaya.
Down the entire length of the Sumskaya
there were the bodies of men and women
hanging suspended by the neck from first-
and second-story balconies.
There were so many bodies, and the
icality was so improbable, that it appeared
at first sight as though a great deal of
merchandise had been hung out for sale,
and this momentary confusion was pro-
longed by the mind's failing to identify the
shapes, here and there, of those who had
been hanged by the feet, head down, and
whose garments had fallen over their heads
and whose hands were stiffly semaphored.
But then, in a flash, they were seen for
what they were.
The beautiful expository prose con-
tinues, without expostulation, without
tears, without indictment, and without
the machinery of terror, its recital of
monstrosity. Recruiting some “reformed”
Stalinists into the SS, Obergruppenfiihrer
Rauch sends for four Jewish children
from the schoolhouse where . the city’s
children, starved and soiled, are huddled
with their schoolmistress out of harm’s
way. Rauch addressed the new Storm-
troopers on those**things which devolve
upon an SS-man:
During the last part of his address
Obergruppenfiihrer Rauch had taken his
pistol from its holster. He now held it
before him, having cocked it with a casual
and practised movement of his thumb and
wrist like shooting his cuff. He stepped
over to the nearest of the children facing
the wall, put the pistol to the child’s ear,
pressed tire trigger. The sound of the
report was sharp but echoless.
“To be an SS man you must be able
to do this,” said Obergruppenfiihrer Rauch.
“Is there any one of you who feels he
cannot do this?”
The Obergruppenfiihrer waited. A
minute of silence went by in which the
only sound was the sniffling of one of the
three remaining children. The Obergruppen-
fiihrer was looking at the eight recruits,
but none could see his eyes.
“You,” he said.
The story centres around the school-
house and the children under the pro-
tection of their schoolmistress, Maryusa.
It is*the symbol of the free mind of the
Ukraine, which the Russians had decided
to obliterate with Russian text-books. It
was here that the wolfish young Com-
munist, Fomin, came in secret to put up
a portrait of Stalin, so that the Germans
might kill all the children and.... provide
the basis of a new atrocity-story. Ober-
gruppenfuhrer Rauch seems to have
been content to preserve the starving
children to be retaught as Ukrainian Nazis.
But having to leave Kharkov because of
the Russian advance, his second-last
thought was of the children: he sent a
trusted man with a machine-gun to kill
them all, so that they might not be left
to breed Russian culture. His last
thought was for the schoolmistresses of
Kharkov. He hustled them all into a
carriage at the end of his escape-train,
but carefully refrained from having the
carriage coupled to the train. The in-
coming Russians then shot them all as
collaborators.
The story is also of the burning by the
Germans of the inhabitants of an entire
village in their meeting-house because
Fomin shot a bloodhound ; and the re-
taliation by the Russian partisans on the
“reformed” Stalinist SS-man, whom they
suspected of giving them away to the
German-village-burners, by giving him a
ride on the “wooden horse.” They hauled
down two birch-trees, thirty metres apart,
so that their tops bowed to the ground ;
stripped the prisoner; tied a leg to the
top of each tree; then chopped through
the ropes that held the trees down.
But this is the only example of Russian
physical ingenuity of torture in the book;,
throughout the methods of the two con-
flicting totalitarian ideologies are con-
trasted ; the Germans rejoicing in clever
brutality for its own sake; the
Russians, as ruthless and as merci-
less, content to obliterate immedi-
ately and on principle, without much
thought of the means, or to sentence a
captured German airman to Siberia, a
more frightful death than shooting, but
not so much because of the frightfulness
as because he would be useful to them
there until, all personality worn away,
he would be taken by typhus.
Taken as propaganda, the book is, as
the cover says, “terrifying.” But greater
than its political and sociological effect
is its quality as a novel; the purity of
its prose, the clarity of its pictures, the
firm progress of its story, its wide grasp
of people and scenes, and the certainty
of its portraits of many different people
of different nationalities, establish Blunden
as a novelist of the first class, while its
almost complete suppression of emotion,
its quality of nightmare realised and held
in trance, stands this novel out on its
own among modern experiences of the
spirit.
R. McC.
Moments with Maugham
W. Somerset Maugham’s The Vagrant
Mood (Heinemann) is a collection of six
essays, the reading of which is so satis-
factory, pleasurable and interesting that
one feels a sense not of veneration (an
attitude Maugham admits he could never
achieve) but of privilege.
The first essay, “Augustus,” is a memoir
of Augustus Hare, a 19th-century writer
of travel-books, with whom Maugham as
a young man became friendly, Hare then
being elderly. “Augustus” is, in fact, less
an essay than the other five; it is a
masterly short biography which in its
smaller' compass is in a sense comple-
mentary to Gosse’s Father and Son.
Hare, whose parents were overburdened
with progeny, was adopted and incredibly
strictly-reared by his godmother, an aunt
by marriage. When this aunt wrote sug-
gesting the adoption his mother replied;
My dear Maria, how very kind of you.
Yes. certainly the baby shall be sent as
soon as it is weaned; if anyone else would
like one, would you kindly remember that
we have others?
“Zurbaran” is perhaps the most delight-
ful thing in the book. Maugham, in the
course of an account of the life and
work of this comparatively little-known
Spanish painter, friend and contemporary
of Velasquez, develops a skilful and com-
pelling statement of his own aesthetic
beliefs. One may disagree with particular
examples, but it is impossible to quarrel
with statements as persuasive and well-
written as this:
Beauty is a grave word. It is a word of
high import. It is used lightly now —of the
weather, of a smile, of a frock or the fit
of a shoe, of a bracelet, of a garden, of a
syllogism; beautiful serves as a synonym
for good or pretty or pleasing or nice or
engaging or interesting. But beauty is none
of these. It is much more. It is very rare.
It is a force. It is an enravishment
Another essay, “After Reading Burke,”
is mainly an examination of prose style.
Maugham is old-fashioned enough to be-
lieve that an artist must also be a crafts-
man. So in “Zurbaran” where he is
really exploring to discover why some
artists of talent who are not geniuses
produce occasional works of genius he
says of the Spaniard: “Perhaps because
he was so honest, so sincere, because he
had the sensibility which enabled him to
paint... .with such an admirable subtlety,
sometimes, very rarely, he was able to
surpass his limitations.”
Still on the theme of aesthetics, Kant’s
theories are discussed in “Reflections on
a Certain Book.”
Of the other two essays, one, “The
Decline and Fall of the Detective Story,”
is a slight entertainment; the other,
“Some Novelists 1 Have Known,” con-
tains reminiscences of Henry James, H. G.
Wells, Arnold Bennett and others. As
a sample, here is Henry James irritating
the company by his insistence on seeking
the right word and his inability to ask
a simple question (about an actress)
simply:
He wrapped up his meaning in an
increasingly embarrassed maze of circum-
locution till at last Mrs. Clifford could
stand it no longer and blurted out; “Do
you mean, is she a lady?” A look of real
suffering crossed his face. Put so, the
question had a vulgarity that outraged him.
He pretended not to hear. He made a
little gesture of desperation and said; “Is
she, enfin, what you’d call if you were
asked point-blank, if so to speak you were
put with your back to the wall, is she a
femme du monde?”
To revert to “Zurbaran.” In it
Maugham writes; “The artist has no need
to carry heavy baggage to find his way
"to posterity. A few pictures, a book or
two, suffice.” This reader will be sur-
prised if The Vagrant Mood is not in-
cluded in Maugham’s swag when he
makes that journey.
Jubilee Play
When a novelist so robust and accom-
plished as Kylie Tennant writes a play
as dull as Tether a Dragon (Associated
General Publications), which won the
£5OO first-prize in the Commonwealth
jubilee play competition, the reason for
the failure cannot lie in incapacity.
One can imagine such novels as
Tiburon or Lost Haven, with their earthy
vitality and wealth of comic or dramatic
rustic characters engaged in lovemaking
and feuding, making very rich plays
indeed, provided they were disciplined
into form ; and Tethhr a Dragon shows
no lack of dramatic craftsmanship in this
respect, following Alfred Deakin’s career
with clarity and economy as he
manoeuvres in Melbourne and London to
bring Federation to pass, accomplishes
his ambition against the reluctance of
David Syme and the hostility of William
Lyne, and finally, broken in health, fades
out of politics.
The failure lies, curiously, in the quali-
ties where one would most expect Kylie
Tennant to shine; in characterisation
and in spiritedness. Deakin is dimly per-
ceptible as a patient and weary idealist,
but there is nothing to demonstrate that
brilliance of mind, eloquence of speech
and fervor of idealism which Kylie
Tennant speaks of in her introduction.
William Lyne, selected for the villain, is
drawn with a heavy hand, and none of
the other characters, though pleasantly
enough sketched-in, is in any way memor-
able. Nowhere in the piece is there any-
thing to lift the great national event of
Federation beyond the average trans-
actions of a shire-council —in fact, one
is quite sure that Kylie Tennant would
have made a shire-council feud infinitely
more interesting.
No doubt among contributory causes
to this disappointing result are the facts
that Kylie Tennant does not really seem
at home behind-the-scenes in high
politics; that the theme—the destruction
of an idealist in politics by the strain of
office and the hounding of his enemies—
is essentially dismal, pathetic rather than
tragic; that the theme does not quite fit ,
Lyne’s enmity and its effect on Deakin
having to be overstressed to make a
dramatic struggle ; that the London scenes
with Balfour and others briefly introduce
a variety of characters without contribut-
ing very much in the way of dramati
development; that Kylie Tennant seem
to have imagined, if one is to accept he
introduction at its face-value, that a plaj
could be written about a political problem
and not about human character ; and thal
the play was written for a State occasion
a competition in which the choice o:
theme was (mistakenly) limited.
But the clue to the overriding restric-
tion on the writer’s talent lies, most likely,
in the jaunty list of instructions at the
beginning to little-theatres, as to how they
may do the play cheaply and easily b\
borrowing a lobster-pot and providing j
leather sofa with a chintz cover, etc. If
the commercial theatres, by excluding
all Australian plays except the occasional
success from abroad, make it practically
impossible for this country to develof
a dramatic literature, so do the play
wrights do themselves infinite harm by
thinking only in terms of little-theatres,
where the goodwill and enthusiasm ol
amateurs, supported by local patriotism
and the natural interest in our own history
often cover so many naiveties of play
writing.
BUSH BALLADS
Out-of-the-way bush ballads and
songs are wanted for a general an-
thology of Australian ballads to be
published by Angus and Robertson.
Copies of unpublished or little-
known pieces, dating from the early
days or still popular outback, would
be gratefully received.
Reply to “Ballad Anthology,” C/o
“The Bulletin.”
Cut and adapted, Tether a Dragon ha;
apparently been reasonably successful or
the radio ; but it is impossible to imagine
it, as a stage-play, transferred to the Wes
End of London, crossing to New York
translated into foreign languages, travel
ling even as far as New Zealand; ant
had Kylie Tennant thought in those terms
which are not incompatible with ful
Australian value, she would surely have
attempted something much livelier thar
this dramatisation of a political even
which can only be interesting to the world
insofar as its characters are interesting.
Reviewed Briefly
The Glorious Three: June Wetherel
(Shakspeare Head). A ' better-than
average light novel which opens on the
Oregon Trail in 1853 and visits seven
frontiers, including the territory disputec
between America and England ner
Hudson’s Bay, The characters, then
romances and adventures are convincin;
and the story is told with pace and gusto
* * * ♦
Avalanche Patrol: M. M, Atwate
(Faber). A beautifully written and pro
duced boys 5 book about a young Canadio
snow-ranger; his duty was to patrol
ski-ing resort in which his predecess:
had been mysteriously killed. The fac
of avalanches, weather-stations and sk
ing-versus-snowshoes technique are wc
brought out, and over all hangs a myste
involving bank-robbers, who always roi
during a snowstorm, and who seem
some way to be connected with the dea;
of a snow-ranger, and the walled-
ski-ing resort.
* * * ♦
League Cricket in England: R
Genders (Werner Laurie). A plea ft
the recognition and appreciation of tf
services to English cricket of the varic
cricket leagues, which cricket literati;
has so far largely neglected. Contain
histories of all the leagues, with accora
of clubs and grounds and performanc;
of prominent players, among whom a:
some well-known Australians.
* * ' * •
Pastures New : Ian Niall (Heinemaff
The sort of closely-written, close
observed nature-book, confined to o
well-known and well-loved place, "h
the English always do well (Mr. N
will be remembered for his pre'
books on poaching, etc.), and wr
should be more often attempted in A
tralia, where travel-books tend to be
wide in scope and nature-books
encyclopaedic. Mr. Niall discou
lightly and fluently on weasels, pheas.
eels, frogs, gnd anything else animaj
human he encountered around the
Field of his childhood.
* * * *
Poets’ 'Quest: a school anthn
selected by E. A. Southwell, introu«-
by Enid Moodie Heddle and pup-
by Longmans in Melbourne. It >'
ticularly pleasing in its recognition
Australian poetry—Kenneth Slessoi
be found standing between y
Gibson and R. L. Stevenson;
keeps company with De la Mare ;
Tennyson; David Campbell with n-
and the modem Welsh writer H-
Treece —and with American ano
Zealand poets included, and a fresn
original choice from English poeti •:
old and new, it is an admirable .
collection from every aspect—one -
has been compiled with unusual t . ?
fulness and which should mflic P
on the young with the minimum 1 P


Reading from right to left •
White Madras Centre with Green/Red, Green/White,
Green/Gold. All round frill, matching colour in a multi-check
voile. 3ft. 6in„ 35/-: 4ft. 6in„ 39/6; sft., 43/6; 6ft., 47/6.
Curtains of White Madras Centre and two centre rows
multi-check frilling. 3ft. 6in., 37/6; 4ft. 6in., 42/-; sft., 47/6;
6ft., 52/6.
Multi-check Voile and White Madras. Frilling. 3ft. 6in., 37/6;
4ft. 6in„ 42/-; sft„ 47/6; 6ft., 52/6
.
ca£jy
W v
5;
An
PIP
m
*' ■
- -
, _ 's*
m. v f *•»11
V;«A
sw
v
fs7
r#
■: < V
■linm
■
• •
.• »v
W
■V'
*: N
iifw*i
a, 'JM
*r
sr
8£
♦ *:> V-
e a.
i
0
&JI» JStii
■.:' '■;
i»\s.r
<9 ‘h-mmakt >■«
w
■
K
I I
iwi
ry •
;tr
h
m
“a": -
.w
•«:
* *
: ;^w.
fcss
u \
s.vasfe
Km
1 I
A
&A:
ipl
ss
m
/>
V.
4 6"—39/6
<i&y
SiVvV'J
Wi
*s*
.1
4 6"—42/-
ipfe
m
4
4' 6"—42/-
P.
m
J.
For Framing
your windows, of course you’ll want
in
I
mi i
m
n
S'
»
if
: , i.
1
¥
(SrXS
13
r
5^
-
Designers and housewives in America have long known how window curtains can alter the
personality of a room, enhance a view through a window. They value good-
looking curtains that will let the light into a room yet give complete
privacy. Frankly, we thought so much of these designs we copied
them ! The colours, too. For colour matched properly is one of
the most important things in a curtain . . . matched so that it
won't fade after a week 1 So why not inspect our wonderful range?
There's a curtain here for every window in your home!
A ’TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
inthony Horderns
-as
SHOWER AND WINDOW CURTAINS THAT MATCH
!&lamoi>r in your bathroom! Hygienic plastic Shower and Crossover window
curtains in many colours and designs. They stay clean. No
washing Is ( necessary. You simply rub them down and they're cleaneo
X'Overs, 3' 6". 35/-: 4' 6", 37/6; 6*. 47/6. Shower curtail, 6* x 3*. 16/3;
6' x 6', 32/6. Ruffles in plain, spotted or patterned plastic, with
toding ric rac trim. Rodless, these stretch to 5 yards. 32/6.
FURNISHING DEPT., 3RD FLOOR. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. ’PHONE: M 2401. FREIGHT EXTRA.


An International Sportsman on Sporting Tastes and Tempers
SPORT
ROUND THE WORLD
By STEPHEN KELEN
IT was in Zululand, South Africa, that
I finally realised the importance of
sport—at a least expected place.
Travelling through mountainous
country, we were just on the outskirts
of a native village when excited tribes-
men halted our car. Some of them
carried spears, but they didn’t look
hostile. The tallest of them, apparently
the leader of this “deputation,” with much
gesticulation was explaining something to
our guide, who spoke their lingo.
“I’m afraid,” the guide said, turning
to us, “we’ll have to wait till their
bicycle-race is over. We are invited to
see the race and congratulate the winner.”
He added: “I can assure you you’re
going to see probably the most remark-
able sporting event in the world. It isn’t
just an ordinary bicycle-race.”
He told us that these half-wild natives,
who make their bicycles out of wood,
once a year stage their bicycle-race on a
points system. When the chief dies the
points are counted up and the champion
who leads at the time is nominated by
the village elders for the old man’s posi-
tion.
He went on to explain that some of
the neighboring villages had adopted the
same system to elect not only their new
chief but also the village elders. If
there’s any conflict between these sport-
minded tribes it is settled with a race
between their champions!
The world could take a lesson from
it ; instead, despite the “peace,” nations
with millions of sportsmen, fine athletes
and ballplayers, are outside the inter-
national orbit of sport today.
On one side we have the Iron Curtain
countries’, general reluctance to compete
with the Western nations; on the other
there’s the problem of the defeated ex-
enemy countries of Germany and Japan.
Until recently occupation forces in Ger-
many and Japan were not allowed to com-
pete against the local talent.
Yet without sport humanity would lose
one of its most effective means of achiev-
ing the super-dream of peace and unity
and complete goodwill among nations
—or at least it would be if all acquired
the true sportsman’s outlook on life.
But sport, like dancing, music or many
other expressions of human life, differs
throughout the world. A Central Euro-
pean prefers a different rhythm in music,
or in sporting activities, than, for in-
stance, an Australian does. To a sports-
man in Prague cricket would be the
dullest game on earth, whilst Australian
crowds have only lately started to dis-
cover the “qualities” of soccer. Hai Alai,
one of the most popular games in Spain,
the Far East and Latin American coun-
tries, is still a mystery to most Britishers.
Just as the world needs a common
language, the universal popular game is
yet to come. Also, a universal outlook
on success or failure in games—that
“sporting outlook” —has yet to be
achieved.
In the British Empire I have found
sport to be a solid expression of a certain
form of life. In most other parts of
the world sport is considered as a
“national health movement,” “patriotic
pride,” “the best method of propaganda,”
but to the Briton, by and large, it is
nothing but “sport.” Especially in Eng-
land I found that the “game” is more
important than “results.”
In 1929 I played against Fred Perry
in the table-tennis world championships
in Budapest, and he defeated me. The
next year I met him in London and
Manchester and on each occasion I was
the winner. On the Continent, if teams
or individuals meet, especially in ball-
games, it is almost certain that the
“locals” are going to score a victory. Nor
do you have to travel from pne country
to another for that to apply, even if you
are the better player ; it is enough to play
away from your home-ground. The
reason isn’t only that your opponent is
better used to his table or field; mass
hypnosis comes into it.
In England, on the other hand, you
step into the middle of the stadium with
a feeling of security—the crowd, and
even your opponent, is with you, and
all that matters is a good game. In
Europe, the Latin American countries —
or the Far East —you feel the tremendous
willpower pitched against you by spec-
tators and your opponents alike.
Slavs, such as the Czechs and Yugo-
slavs, are fanatics in sport. With the
Latin races, be it in Europe or in America,
winning is all-important, but they haven’t
the fanatical will that the Slavs have.
In countries where victory is more
important than the game itself, crowds
and players easily lose their temper. This
is especially so in South America, where
soccer is the predominating sport. There
you’ll often find tens of thousands of
embittered spectators who would cut
each other’s throat without the slightest
hesitation —and twenty-two injured on
the field. Actually, what they are playing
is not soccer but a life-and-death
struggle between people possessed by a
dangerous temper.
When I saw the Copa Roca (Roca
Cup; one of the most-prized soccer
trophies in South America) between
Brazil and the Argentine, in Rio de
Janiero, barrackers were beaten, police
attacked, teams dispersed by soldiers, and
the majority of the crowd manhandled
the minority. It was a mixture of tragedy
and burlesque.
Despite the huge crowds, attendants
attempt to search all spectators for fire-
arms and other weapons before allow-
ing them to enter the stadiums of Brazil
or Argentina. In the Argentine, wire-
fences have been built around fields to
protect players from the crowd’s anger.
There’s also the fire-brigade ready to
discipline the mob, in case the situation
gets entirely out of hand.
In Brazil, barbed-wire and fire-brigade
are substituted by soldiers. The trouble
naturally is that often the soldiers are
themselves partial to one team or an-
other, which causes further complications.
Yet as soon as the South American
soccer-fan leaves the arena, once more
he becomes a generous, friendly and lazy
person, and often you’ll see men who
fought each other in the grandstand have
a glass of wine or a cup of black coffee
together in a near-by restaurant. The
only argument they have then is about
who’s going to pay the bill, both parties
trying to make up for the insults hurled
at each other, or even bodily harm.
I have seen similar scenes in Europe,
too, but there barrackers belonging to
different camps keep on, to put it mildly,
disliking each other.
Eastern people consider sports more
like a theatre-play than a game. Per-
haps the Indians are the only exception,
displaying their emotions both on the
field and in the grandstand, triumph or
despair clearly written over their faces.
They are a far cry from the impassive
Orientals, as Westerns like to picture
them. And so are the Japanese,
who often pray aloud while playing, seek-
ing support from their sport-loving gods.
In America, sport and business mix
freely. On one side you have the uni-
versities, where a sound and healthy
chivalry produces fine sportsmen, and on
the other the “circus” system—mainly
tennis “circuses” (in Europe and Japan
professional wrestlers travel from one
city to another to display their Strength
and skill).
I liked going to see professional tennis-
players and wrestlers. I even thought
that the results of their matches were not
a foregone conclusion until I had a very
strange experience.
It happened in Prague, where I was
subbing the sporting page of a Hungarian
paper. It was late in the afternoon, I
STORY
“Hatred”
by “Standby” (R, S. Porteous)
Who killed Captain Burton? Aus-
tralia’s well-known sea-writer turns
out an absorbing whodunit.
In next week’s “Bulletin”
was tired, and I had to go to a profes-
sional wrestling-match. I complained to
one of my colleagues, who said: “Don’t
be a sucker. Ring up the manager and
ask him for the results, now. They know
every result beforehand.”
This I refused to believe.
“Go on, try it, you have nothing to
lose,” this Mephistopheles of the journal-
istic world kept on saying.
Finally I conceded. I phoned the
“circus,”
“I would like to have the results of
tonight’s wrestling,” I said to the manager
of the wrestling team.
“Sir,” he protested. “You are asking
the impossible. How can I tell you who
is going to win tonight? We’re profes-
sionals, but I can assure you every con-
test is on the level. No results are pre-
arranged in our circus.”
I was about to put down the receiver
when my colleague snatched it away from
me.
“Listen,” he said, “if you don’t give
us the results now there’ll be not a single
line in the paper about your circus to-
morrow.”
The manager argued the point for
a while, but then my colleague handed
the phone over to me and said: “Here.
He is not only going to give you the
results, but a colorful description of the
main match of the evening.”
Perhaps unjustly, but ever since that
day I have looked upon all professional
events with great misgivings, unless there
were definite gains for the winners. And
even then . , ,
Talking of Dogs
(SUPPOSE that, with Chips, it
wasn’t altogether unnatural, for
his mother had belonged to a
prominent Feminist speaker, and
his father to an English-master at a
boys’ high-school.
A day or two after we got Chips,
at about two months old, I came
upon him sitting on the floor with
one paw on the open page of a child’s
primer. He had his head on one side,
and was glancing, with an expression
that blended puzzlement, disappoint-
ment and suspicion, from the empty
mat to the book. Just above his paw
was the line “A cat sat on a mat.”
At the time I didn’t see in it any par-
ticular significance.
But apparently the little fellow was
bent on self-education, A few days
afterwards I saw him twisting his
mouth, this way and that, so I opened
it to see if he’d picked up some
bubble-gum which perhaps he could
neither swallow nor eject. There was
nothing there. But beside him was
an open dictionary, and it has since
been made abundantly clear that he
must have then been practising
silently the art of speech.
One morning, not long after, I
heard sounds of laughter just out-
side the back-door, then a childish
voice saying: “Bloody good, that,
bloody good! ”
Grabbing the strap, I rushed out
to administer swift and condign
punishment, but to my astonishment
none of the kids was around. Only
Chips was there, with tears running
down his whiskers, and beside him,
opened at the comic-strip page, was
the morning paper that he had’ with
great eagerness learned to bring in.
But who’d have believed that a dog
could talk?
A few nights later I was sitting in
the lounge reading the evening-paper.
I had noticed that the pup had
recently taken to sprawling along the
top of the lounge-suite whenever I
settled there with a paper. Suddenly
a bored voice behind me said •
“Strike me, you take a helluva
time to read a page—/ finished it
about three minutes ago. Shake it
up and turn over to the dog-tips—
I’ve got a cobber up the street who’s
having a run tonight ”
r«
« v . , y ' T
. ’ ll s , yo . u * mean - There sno
°ff d „ to il°° k 80 pop f yed Wlth
wonder. Do you think humans
have a monopoly on speech? It’s
T ? ne ° f us ! ll S er ammals
W . hat We Can C O
We had our arguments after that,
of course. Whenever he saw a load
of sawn timber going by his hackles
would rise, and he used to affirm
with great bitterness that if he had
his way every man who chopped
down a tree would be shot,
Once he bit a visitor whom he
heard say “I’ve got shares in a blood-
and-bone factory.”
When Chips was about six months
old his voice began to break. It was
a period of humiliation that seared
his soul. He would start to tell me
something in a high soprano, then
suddenly his voice would drop a few
octaves and he’d finish it in a basso-
cantante. There is nothing a dog
hates more than to be laughed at,
and on such occasions he’d slink out
with his tail between his legs, mutter-
ing to himself,
Eventually his voice settled to a
resonant baritone. There was never
a struggle, as with less gifted dogs
, I’ve had, to get him to take a bath,
Though his voice was almost bad
enough to have won him a handsome
contract as a nightclub crooner, he
did love to beef out “Open Road”
and “On the Road to Mandalay.”
He seemed quite surprised when I
told him we also liked to sing in our
bath. He asked, rather shrewdly I
thought, whether the limited addic-
tion to singing in some humans was
because of the rarity of the occasion
which prompted them most to song,
His powers of ratiocination
developed with his mastery of our
tongue. For instance, one night while
I was taking him up the yard to put
him on his chain he said;
“Look, brother, just because
you’ve put a thick chain around your
neck”—here he jerked his head in
the direction of the house—“is no
reason to put one around mine. I’m
not going to scrag the chickens or
bury a bone among the asters. Be
a sport and give us a go—l’ve got a
date on tonight.”
Well » what could a man do in the
face . of suctl a heartfelt appeal from
a friend?
Often, as we sat together on the
lounge, he thoughtfully chewing one
of m X buttons and I idly twisting one
°f his ears round and round, he
would look up at me imploringly and
say:
“That’s getting damned
monotonous. What about scratching
me . chest for a change? You know
f hke that best of all.”
He would get cheeky at times
though, as when I peremptorily
ordered him from the room one night
when I felt a flea. He stood there
defiantly and said;
wouldn’t be so lousy if you
werent lousy with the flea-
po T wder - A .
,- 1 as forced t 0 see 1116 J ustlce of
his view.
He used to get some good tips on
-SwSH
Often, while I was studying form and
tips, he’d sit up, cock his ears and
say “Psst! Here’s the enemy! Turn
over the page and kid to be looking
over the market-reports.”
As his education improved, how-
ever, he began to get a bit too uppish.
Once, being warned he had to mind
the house, he snapped:
“You mind' it. I don’t keep a
man and bark myself.”
But it was talking in his sleep that
lost him his job. He was snoozing
on the lounge-room rug one night.
twitching and dreaming, and sud-
denly he came out with: “What do
you know! The gay old cow picking
those sweat-peas and telling his
missus they’re for his boss’s wife, and
he hands them to that barmaid he’s
doing a line with, Har, har! ”
Somewhere there’s a talking-dog
looking for a new home,
Bo.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, February 18, 1953
Vol. 74—No, 3810
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man"
Directors;
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.1, Wellington.
"LABOR" WINS
The outconfe of the New South Wales election, in
which “Labor” appears to have won at least 55 seats
out of 94, was unfortunate for Australia but not
unexpected. In its 12 bedraggled years of office,
sullied by gross mismanagement and dereliction of
duty and besmirched by a sordid spoils-to-the-victor
policy which would disgrace Chicago, the McKells,
the McGirrs and the Cahills have built up a following
which does no credit to the country —the dragooned
members of the “industrial” unions who vote against
the party at their peril, the racing fraternity, the s.p.
addict, the half-world which rotates round the pig-
trough bars of Sydney and other industrial towns of
which the public was vouchsafed a glimpse during the
hearing of the evidence before the Liquor Commission.
Added to these are the pressure-groups up for sale, the
main corpus of Communism, the parlor-pinks and the
growing group of youngsters who are being regimented
in the schools by the policy of Mr, Heffron, who, years
before he became Deputy Premier and Minister for
Education, was an official tutor to the Communist
party. Then there are the mob with chips on their
shoulders, so numerous in this selfish State that one
Sydney daily runs a special column dedicated to their
wailings.
All these elements form “Labor” support, along
with a huge mass of new bureaucrats, municipal. State
and Commonwealth, who have earned the right to loaf
on large salaries during the years that “Labor” has
been in office. These in themselves are numerous
enough to turn the issue in any election, and as older
civil servants go out they become more and more an
influence at the polls and more and more a menace to
constitutional government. They are natural “Labor”
voters. Efficiency and economy are the enemies of
their comfort and self-importance. They prefer to
serve under a Minister who is utterly dependent on
them for an understanding and a carrying-out of his
job than one who has a background of business
experience.
Combined with these influences go the apparent
inability of the Liberal party to be aggressive and to
inspire confidence in many of those who should be its
supporters, and the general attitude of the daily Press,
which, though it turns round at election-time, spends
most of the interval between elections walloping its
. joss.
Liberalism should certainly take a good look at
itself. There were whole blocks of constituencies in
N.S.W. which the Liberals did not attempt to fight at
all. They surrendered the western mines, coalfields and
Newcastle, with the exception of Kahibah and Hamil-
ton, without firing a shot and without thought of what
the effect must be in the coming Senate campaign.
They did the same with a great belt of industrial elec-
torates in Sydney. They even failed to fight Maroubra,
represented by Mr. Heffron, who should have been
fought at any cost, as a matter of principle. Whereas
in the whole State “Labor” left only four electorates —
Byron, Gordon, Hornsby and Neutral Bay—uncon-
tested the Opposition left no less than 23, or 25 per
cent, of the whole constituencies, unfought.
The fact that they were hopeless as winning pro-
positions is, of course, an illuminating sidelight on the
manner in which the electorates have been redistributed
under “Labor.” The State has been wilfully organised,
regardless of regional rights and interests, to assure
permanent “Labor” government from the cities.
Another influence which profoundly affected the
result of the poll was the apparent continued inability
of the Liberals to capitalise the record of the Common-
wealth Government.’ As usual there was a tendency to
accept the “Labor” estimate of Canberra’s record. Mr.
Menzies was not introduced into the campaign until
the fight had almost been lost. It was inevitable from
the first that the contest would be mainly on Federal
issues, and had Mr. Menzies’s statement (published last
week) been capitalised aggressively in the beginning it
might have changed the complexion of the fight con-
siderably. It seems to be the habit of Liberalism to
fight on the defensive all the time, to leave the initiative
with an enemy who is not slow to use it or scrupulous
in the way he does it. Liberalism will have to do better
in the Senate campaign, and it can do better if it
likes, as is shown by the reversal of form in Ashfield,
which was lost at the by-election.
In W.A. the election was much of a pattern of all
recent polls, though the Liberal-C.P. Government was
defeated by a narrow margin.
Winning, however, “Labor” is not acquiring a
bed of roses in either State. “Labor” is a distracted
AN ALL-AUSTRALIAN TEAM
and divided party, riddled with sectarian dissension and
intrigue and plagued with problems which are cal-
culated to wreck it if there should be any financial
recession due to fall in world prices. And its difficulties
will grow if it succeeds in winning a Senate majority
and control of the Federal Parliament next year. It
is winning votes at the present stage not by its own
strength but through the Liberals’ organisational
weakness and by the making of economic promises
which it cannot keep about matters over which it has
no control.
Uniform Tax
The long-heralded and imich-postponed Premiers’
conference on the return of taxing powers to the
States will open in Canberra on Friday in a rather
foggy atmosphere, despite the season of the year.
Earlier cries of “Give us back our taxing powers”
changed to looks of blank dismay on July 7 last
year when the Prime Minister told the Premiers that
his Government was “abundantly and promptly
willing” to talk over with them means whereby that
could be arranged.
At the time Mr. Menzies said; —
I believe that from the Commonwealth point of
view and the point of view of the States it would be
a good thing for government and for the satisfaction
of the public mind to know that, so far as possible,
the people who spend money also raise the money,
and that every <§tate is in direct relationship with its
own taxpayers.
He also indicated that it was within the Com-
monwealth’s powers to end uniform taxation by
merely repealing the legislation which authorised it,
but that his Government preferred to discuss the
question in conference with the States, with a view
to producing a simple system whereby the change
could be made with a minimum of trouble.
The Premiers reacted with varying degrees of
lukewarm enthusiasm, leaving little doubt that as far
as most of them were concerned they had been well
satisfied with a system which produced money in pro-
portion to the loudness of their squeals, and which
enabled them to enjoy whatever kudos could be gained
in the expenditure of the tax-money, without incurring
any of the blame and abuse that are the natural and
traditional lot of the taxgatherer.
Besides, they had more than half a suspicion that
Menzies might be bluffing, too ; that he and Treasurer
Fadden had no real wish to hand back any powers
to the States; that the offer was merely a counter-
bluff to strengthen the Commonwealth’s hand in future
financial talks. But whatever his original attitude
may have been the savage recriminations hurled at
Federal financial policy by “Labor” politicians during
State and Federal by-elections since the July announce-
ment must have convinced Mr. Menzies that the
advantages of uniform taxation from a Federal Gov-
ernment standpoint are completely outweighed by the
burden of abuse it brings.
This was reflected in the Prime Minister’s mood
when he spoke at Hurstville in the N. S. Wales general-
election uproar. In reply to the latest of many
Cahill outpourings he said that he was speaking to
defend his Government against “a mesh of miserable
lies.” A “Labor” election advertisement had criticised
the Federal Government for budgeting for a surplus
in 1951. The truth was that the whole of that surplus,
£93 million, plus another £6O million out of Federal
revenue, had been paid over to the States, and that but
for that surplus “the entire N.S.W. public-works pro-
gramme would have come to an end months ago.”
On Cahill’s own evidence the truth of this is
indisputable. Even with the Federal contribution he
found it necessary to cut down works and put off men
all over N. S. Wales —a state of affairs for which he
blamed and abused the Commonwealth. What the
position would have been without the Federal Budget
surplus is not hard to imagine, though it* is a matter
on which Cahill, for one, will not allow his imagination
to dwell.
Last year the Commonwealth paid to the States
in the form of tax-reimbursements, assorted grants and
loan supplementation over £3OO million. A similar-
sum is being supplied in the current year. The actual
figures are:
1951-53. 1953-53.
£M. £M.
Tax reimbursement and supplementary grant 130 135
Other grants .. .. 41 43
161 178
To supplement public loans ~ ~ .. 155 135
316 313
The total income tax collected last year (including
company tax) was £537 million ; and the estimate for
this year is £589 million. A comparison of the two
sets of figures gives an idea of the extent to which
Federal taxes could have been cut had there been no
obligation to find money for the States. Not that the
taxpayer would have been any better off; but the
responsibility of the States to raise the money they
so blithely spent would have forced on them a much
stricter examination of all spending programmes, with
resultant economies they have felt no necessity to
practise under the present set-up.
From the point of view of the average taxpayer
the important thing is not whether there should be
one taxing authority or two, or even a dozen, but that
there should be one return and one assessment. There
is fairly general agreement that a workable system can
be devised whereby Federal and State taxation offices
can co-operate in the matter of returns and assess-
ments. A single assessment notice showing Federal
and State taxes separately would have a salutary and
sobering effect on State Premiers and Treasurers. As
the Federal figure would be uniform for all Australia,
a comparison of the State figures would be a good
pointer to the extravagance or frugality of the various
State Governments.
“Labor,” of course, wants only one taxing
authority, for the reason that it wants only one
authority over all things in Australia —the authority of
a unified central Government acting on instructions
from a Federal A.L.P. executive. In “Labor” eyes
uniform taxation is a two-way winner. With “Labor”
in power in Canberra it enables the party to keep a
tight rein on the States ; with “Labor” out of office it
provides ammunition for a campaign of abuse and
calumny such as has been seen up and down the
country in the past 18 months.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Banking Policy
It will be almost like a “Back-to-1947
Week” in the Reps tomorrow when the
Government brings down its bill to
amend the Banking Act and the Com-
monwealth Bank Act for the purpose of
guaranteeing fair competition between
the trading banks and the Commonwealth
Bank.
Not long before Parliament adjourned
for the Christmas recess the Prime
Minister indicated the general principles
of the proposed legislation. The pro-
visions of the 1945 Act whereby the
Commonwealth Bank had —and still has
—the power to require the trading banks
to lodge in special accounts the whole
amount of the increase in their assets
since July, 1945, are to be repealed. This
uncalled liability is in the vicinity of
£5OO million, and the trading banks have
felt that a Government disposed to
Socialism could almost destroy them over-
night by means of the provision.
The new proposal is that this uncalled
liability will be wiped out and a new
starting-point for the special accounts
established at the figure at which they
stood on October 7, 1952. This base is
£lB2 million, and the maximum amount
which may_ be called will be that figure,
plus 75 per cent, of any increase in a
bank’s deposits since October 7. The
amount callable but uncalled is to be
adjusted at least once a year so that it
does not exceed 10 per cent, of a bank’s
deposits and the Commonwealth Bank is
to give “maximum practical notice of
likely call-ups or releases.”
The other important change in the
banking set-up will be the separation of
the general-banking and central-bank
functions of the Commonwealth Bank.
This will be done by dividing the bank
into a -General Banking Division and a
central bank. The general bank will be
controlled by a general-manager, who
will be under the authority of the
governor and Commonwealth Bank
board. The General Banking Division
will be required to conform to the require-
ments of the special-accounts provisions
and the advances policy laid down by the
central bank.
The changes will go a long way
towards fulfilling the Government’s
pledge of “fair competition,” but so long
as the central bank and general bank
remain under one board and one
governor there is no real separation of
interests or control. Until there is a
complete constitutional separation of the
two functions the Commonwealth’s bank-
ing policy will remain open to criticism.
The Menzies Record
Mr. Menzies’s reminder of what has
been accomplished by the Liberal-C.P.
Government was needed, apart from
issues raised by State elections. The aver-
age Australian seems to live for the
moment without memory of the past and
with very little concern for the future.
Few who condemn the Government
and yearn for the good old days of
Chifley and Evatt seem to remember that
in 1949 the chaos of industrial unrest
menaced every factory, closed many
in the post-war years of “Labor”
rule, and that, because of deliberate in-
dustrial sabotage and engineered coal
shortage (with consequent rationed
electricity) factories worked sometimes
under 30 hours a week in N. S. Wales.
The petrol-rationing and the tea- and
butter-rationing and the blackmarketing
have been forgotten as completely as the
fact that the steelworks of Australia
were working only 60-65 per cent, capa-
city, that coastal ships generally spent
twice as much time lying idle in port
as at sea, that homebuiiding was possible
in some capitals only with the aid of
the blackmarket in materials and labor,
and that fin some country centres it was
not possible at all.
In the past two years, largely as the
result of freedom from petrol-rationing
and the expansion of business, 400,000
more motor-car owners have been regis-
tered and the initiation of new refinery
production seems to assure the future of
fuel-supplies. Coal-production has gone
up nearly 50 per cent, since 1949, even
not allowing for the contemporary effect
on figures of the 1949 strike. Gas- and
coal-rationing are heard of now only at
intervals, and that mainly in States like
N. S. Wales on which the blight of the
Cahill muddle still rests. Production of
iron is up 40 per cent., bricks 10 per cent.,
cement-sheets 40 per cent, and cement
30 per cent.
It is officially stated that the handling
of ships has been speeded up 25 per cent.
There has been an increase of more
than 500,000 in savings-bank accounts
and a growth in savings-bank deposits of
£200,000,000 during a period in which
Messrs. Evatt and Calwell have been
weeping for the good old times during
which they allowed Thornton, Healy and
Elliott and other members of the Central
Committee of the Communist party to
run the affairs of industry and transport
for them. And since June, 1951, there
has been new British and American in-
vestment planned totalling just on
£100,000,000.
With a bumper wool season and a
new union or so a month slipping from
the grasp of Communist control this
expansion seems certain to continue in
spite of the gloomy prophets of A.L.P.
headquarters about the coming “depres-
sion” and the Commonwealth domination
of the States —though a plank of the
“Labor” platform pledges Dr. Evatt and
his fellow-members to destroy the States
altogether as sovereign bodies and replace
them with provinces helot to the Com-
monwealth.
Feast or Famine
Sydney broke many records for big news-
stories in the last days of the New South
Wales election. Newspaper offices must
have been full of harassed news-editors
and disappointed reporters and camera-
men. Big news came tumbling into the
offices almost every hour.
Daily evidence in the Wollongong case
—an “insides” story if ever there was one
—in which one doctor sued 11 other
doctors for damages and alleged libel
Rose
Lindsay’s
JSiemoirs
page 27
would ordinarily have made front-page
and poster stuff, with pictures. So would
a rent case involving a former N.S.W.
Cabinet Minister who is now Coalmines
Director or something. Without either
there would still have been plenty in the
search for Reginald Doyle, accused of
forgery and other things, and who gave
himself up at midnight on Thursday.
Had there been no Wollongong, rent,
or Doyle case, there was still the first-
class story of a vanished mailbag con-
taining £20,500. Without that the South
African cricket victory and selection of
the Australian cricketers for England
would have filled the bill. And if the
mailbag hadn’t vanished and cricket not
been played, there were still the New
York vice trial and the arrest in West
Australia of a hyphenated Englishman,
either of which separately was headline
stuff. And without either there would
still have been the election.
But when the Doyle case brought in,
on a political level, Minister for Mines
Arthur and sundry politicians of State
and Federal parties, with writs issued and
withdrawn, and more writs threatened,
and Arthur resigning his portfolio and
Premier Cahill announcing a royal com-
mission (and the election only hours
away), all other news had to go into back
pages. Thousands of words were written
in vain, dozens of pictures went unused,
and sub-editors and make-up men broke
out in nervous rashes.
Still, that’s the way it goes in the news-
paper game. And if, a week or so hence,
the newspapers start playing up blondes
in Bikinis or the suspension of a jockey-
boy or a mere case of burglary it’s a
safe bet news-editors will look back at
the week of February 8-14 and wonder
why everything had to happen at once.
Talking of Wheat
At the International Wheat Conference
the new agreement is stuck for the want
of decision on “quota” prices, part of the
deadlock being apparently due to strong
rumors that “quota” consumers have
been reselling at “free” prices.
Under the expiring International Wheat
Agreement the exporting countries agreed
to supply certain quotas of wheat to im-
porting countries at a fixed price (16s. Id.
Australian a bushel) and any wheat above
the quota made the “free” export price
(around 20s. a bushel). The U.S.A. is
seeking 225. 4d. as the new fixed price,
and Australian growers naturally support
it. The Wheatgrowers’ Federation wants
an I.W.A. ceiling of 19s. Id. and a
minimum of 15s. 9d, for quota wheat.
Australia’s original quota under the
old agreement was 80 million bushels a
year, later increased to 88.7 million. The
180-million-bushel harvest just taken is
the last under the old agreement and
made enough wheat to supply home
demands and the I.W.A. quota. It is
estimated to have yielded £l4O million
to growers, which, on the basis of about
46,000 registered growers of 20 or more
acres for grain, gives an average of
something over £3OOO each. The average
is misleading, of course, since acreages
and yields vary widely on individual
farms.
Also misleading is the statement that
180 million bushels gives an average of
over 17i bushels an acre from the 10
million acres sown. The four wheat-
growing States harvested 162 million
bushels for an acre-average of bushels.
West Australia had the biggest acreage,
but its acre-average was only about half
that of N. S. Wales (20.7), Victoria (20,2)
and South Australia (19.8).
This 180 million bushels will satisfy
the home demand of about 81 million
and the quota demand of 88.7 million,
leaving about 10 million bushels which
may or may not be “free wheat,” accord-
ing to the quota decisions in the hew
I.W.A.
The U.S.A. began the crop-year with
a carryover of 254 million bushels,
reaped 1298 million, and finished with
1552 million, of which 700 million is
home-demand wheat, leaving a surplus of
852 million. The respective Canadian
figures are 213 million, 675 million, 888
million, 160 million and 728 million.
Total surplus of U.S.A., Canadian and
Australian wheat is therefoie something
over 1600 million bushels. Total quota
for the last year of the old agreement
was about a third of that (580.9 million),
which rather suggests that the conference
will be talking for some time, that there’ll
be a lot of “free wheat” about, and that
local talk of holding out for extreme
export prices is out of order.
They'll Give Us Beans
The Commonwealth Statistician has just
announced that the population of N, S.
Wales is approaching 3£ million. This
fact has not escaped the notice of the
“planners,” who have decided that if
N.S.W. thinks it can increase its popu-
lation without having its beans controlled
it has another think coming.
Accordingly, on March 20 next, French-
bean-seed growers are to vote for the
setting-up of a N.S.W. French-bean-seed
marketing board. Lists of growers “it
is proposed to enrol to vote” will be
posted at certain post-offices. Whether,
like fowl-farmers, bean-boggers must
stamp their product with the board stamp
remains to be seen.
What can be foreseen is another platoon
or so of officials to reinforce the regi-
ments of officials now infesting the city
and country searching for illegal hens,
outlaw truck-drivers, independent cows,
sly-spud sellers, border peanut-smugglers,
blockade-running fish, after-hours elec-
tricity-users, “fancy”-bread bakers and
old-lady storekeepers in back-streets who
sell something for Is. 11 id. in defiance
of the price-control regulations.
The humble bean, like the equally un-
assuming potato and the impassive egg,
is thus presumably to be elevated to the
realm of politics. Where it will cease to
be a vegetable and become the subject
of Parliamentary debates, a bitterness to
the Housewives’ Association, and the sub-
ject of portentous remarks by some
bumptious board-chairman of whom no-
body ever heard before, but who will
exercise over the production, distribution
and consumption of beans a power ex-
ceedingly great.
And presently, if precedents of estab-
lished boards mean anything, there will
soon be a new bean-board building, with
branch offices in the bean districts, and
a total of employees outnumbering the
bean-growers and all entitled to the envied
privileges of the bureaucrat.
!i Will we never learn?
Skeleton in the Wimmera
Though nobody took much notice of it
at the time, the appearance of skeleton-
weed on a Victorian Wimmera wheat-
farm last year holds for the southern
State a threat which could upset its entire
economy. Coping with it is of more
importance than staging the Olympic
Games or redistributing the State electo-
rates.
Skeleton-weed made just such a stealthy
appearance in the Riverina over 30 years
ago. Young and close to the ground on
the fallows, it was thought to be just
another weed and no notice was taken.
Within a year or two it was discovered
to have a habit of quickly spreading
under cultivation, developing into a tough
tangle in ripe wheat and clogging and
halting headers, and almost impossible to
destroy.
By 1930 it had put thousands of good
Riverina acres out of wheat-production.
By 1950 the figure was in the hundred-
thousands, Today, though a fortune has
been spent in attempts to beat it, it lies
on Riverina wheatland like a green blight.
At a low estimate skeleton-weed costs
N.S.W. 2,000,000 bushels of wheat a year,
for it has spread from Riverina north-
ward.
For Victoria, whose wheat area is about
the same as Riverina, and is much more
dependent on wheat than N.S.W., the
gravity of skeleton-weed can’t be over-
emphasised. Near Horsham last year,
this year it appeared in the Mallee and
Western Wimmera. This latest appear-
ance so close to its border should stir
South Australia, which also has wheat
as No. 1 crop in its economy.
Victorian Lands Department men are
reported as “treating” infested farms.
N.S.W. departmental men have been
“treating” skeleton-weed for 20 years. It
seems to thrive on* the process. It calls
for the widest publicity and the stillest
action possible by everybody who can
lend a hand. It is a far more serious
menace to a wheatgrowing State than
fruit-fly, sheep-fly, drought, flood and
bushfires put together.
Mr. Doyle Turns Up
Latest in the Doyle saga;
After a fortnight “in smoke” Reginald Aubrey
Doyle turned up on the eve of the N. S. Wales
election. Late on the night of February 12
he walked ceremoniously into Redfern police-
station, where he was awaited by senior mem-
bers of the force (with whom, according to
one paper, he shook hands) and by a squadron
of Press representatives and photographers.
According to the story of his adventures,
retailed to the “Daily Telegraph” from Long
Bay, where he awaited trial on 14 charges
involving £72,535 (in connection with allegedly
forged Placer Development scrip) until bailed out
by a Mr. Goldstein, Mr. Doyle was in Sydney all
the time he was missing, and in touch with his
wife —“I saw her several times while I was
on the run we met by arrangement I
passed the word to her through a friend, and
usually met in a city park about 8 p.m.” He
declared that he “lay low in a little room ’—
in fact, “in three different rooms” rented in
the last fortnight.
Mrs. Doyle was reported by the same journal
to have said that “everywhere she went after
her husband’s disappearance the police tagged
along, but sometimes she lost them”: —
My car was well known and easy to
identify, so I used to park that somewhere
out of the way, then head for the city....
Ipto a ladies’ rest-room and out of the
opposite side, then through a couple of
chain-stores, women’s-underwear and cor-
setry departments, makes it difficult for
men to follow me.... 1 met niy husband
in a different place each time, usually at
an appointed tree in a city park.
Mr. Doyle, though a well-known Sydney
identity, seems to have been remarkably difficult
for the M. S. Wales police to catch.
On the day on which Mr. Doyle was charged
before the police court at Redfern and remanded
on bail, Mr. Clarrie Martin, N. S. Wales
Attorney-General, announced the terms of a
royal cotnmission appointed “at the request of
Mr. Arthur,” Minister for Mines, to inquire
into the charges that Doyle had been allowed
to use Parliament House grounds as a parking-
place for his car and into the question ot
whether Mr. Arthur or any other Minister 91
member “acted corruptly or improperly in
any association or dealing with Doyle” pr, in
Mr. Arthur’s case, in relation to companies in
connection with which his name was mentioned
during the election campaign.
Mr. Arthur exclaimed dramatically: “I thank
God I am the happiest man in Sydney to
know that Doyle has come forward A royal
commission on any transactions we have had
without his being present would have been a
hollow affair My good name will now be
cleared.’’ Mr. Doyle’s solicitor, Mr. Roach,
announced in court: “I have been asked to
state that any dealings he [Doyle] has had with
a Mr. Arthur have been legitimate,”
One part of the matter to go before the
royal commission shows what sort of a com-
mission Messrs. Cahill and Martin intend it
to be. The judge is to be asked whether Men
O’Sullivan acted corruptly or improperly m
any association or dealing” with Doyle. AP<u,
from a suggestion in “a certain tear-sheet,
not named, that Mr. O’Sullivan lunched with
Doyle at a restaurant, the only public mforma-
tion about his relations with Doyle are (1) his
emphatic denial that he knew Doyle or had
associated with him; (2) his prosecution a
Minister for Customs of , Doyle for breaches
of the Customs regulations; (3) his soffar-
unaccepted offer of the Customs Departme
files on Doyle to Messrs, Cahill and Martin
for perusal. Senator O’Sullivan is not a ciuze
of N. S. Wales, and the N. S. Wales Govern
hent has no concern with him, either as a
private citizen or as a Commonwealth Mm s •
Senator O’Sullivan, therefore, is puffing the
case mildly when he says “that it appearstha
Mr. Cahill proposes to make a burlesque 01
the commission.” . .
At the time of writing no royal commissi
had been .issued and the judge had not I jee
named. Doyle’s estate was sequestrated in
Bankruptcy Court last week, and he awaits
police-court hearing on the charges agau s


POLITICAL POINTS
Double, double, Doyle and trouble.
Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
On Monday it looked as though the
final count would give N. S. Wales
“Labor” an overall majority of 19 in the
new Assembly, though for all practical
purposes the unendorsed “Labor” member
for Hartley, J. Chalmers, must be added
to this. Party strengths in the new House
should be: “Labor,” 56; Unendorsed
“Labor,” 1 ; Liberal, 22; C.P., 15.
These figures assume that Armidale
goes to the Country party and Parramatta
to “Labor.”
• •
Whatever may be said of Cahill’s
campaign speeches and tactics, his
forecast of the voting in metropolitan
electorates was remarkably accurate. On
Friday he claimed “Labor” would win
Concord, Coogee, Kogarah, Sutherland,
Ryde, Drummoyne and North Sydney
and would hold Ashfield. He was right
in all of these except Ashfield. In the
country he wasn’t quite so close. He
said he “would be surprised” if his party
didn’t win Armidale, Dubbo and Mudgee,
and that if indications were a guide Bar-
won, Tamworth and Albury would return
“Labor” members. Of the first three
only Armidale may yet surprise him;
apparently indications were not a guide
for the second trio.
• •
Coogee, Concord and Kogarah were
the three seats the Liberals won at by-
elections in the 12 months before the
1950 elections. They have now returned
to “Labor,” along with Dubbo and
Mudgee, which the Country party won
three years ago. Redistribution helped
“Labor” in Concord and Kogarah, but
not sufficiently to determine the result.
It will, however, make those seats, and
many others, much harder for the Oppo-
sition to win when the pendulum again
swings their way.
• •
North Sydney illustrated the A.L.P.
dictum that you can buck the machine
once, but not twice, though Geraghty
was really beaten from the day he said
his piece at the Liquor Commission.
• •
J. F. Richardson, who won Ashfield
for “Labor” at last year’s by-election,
turned out to be a wunser; the seat
reverted to the Libs this time.
• •
Minister for Mines Arthur easily held
his Kahibah seat, but the Liberal vote
was up a little on the 1950 figure.
• •
In Westralia “Labor” has apparently
floated back to office on the Federal tide,
though with its head barely above water.
Final figures look like being “Labor,”
26 ; Liberals and Country party, 24. New
Premier Hawke has announced his inten-
tion of attending the Premiers’ Confer-
ence on Friday and of opposing a return
of taxing powers.
• •
First of the three Queensland party-
chiefs to get his policy speech off his
chest, C.P.-leader Nicklin —he’s also
Leader of the Opposition—let the Gairs
have it hot and strong. A sample:
The principles of democracy have been
destroyed by stuffed electoral rolls, imper-
sonation at the polls and a gerrymandering
of electorates which enables Labor to
retain power on a minority vote.
He said that in 1947 the enrolment
for the State elections was 13,000 greater
than the total number of qualified
electors; in 1950, over 6000 greater.
Add the tens -of thousands of qualified
electors who always fail to enrol and you
will get some idea of the number of ghosts
who are able to support Labor on polling-
■ days.
If Nicklin’s right there’s a differ-
ence between the attitudes of Gair
and Cahill towards the departed. Gair
persuades them to vote for him; Cahill
follows them into the grave after their
death-duties.
• •
Since it is now the practice to relax
the immigration-laws to permit Japanese
wives of Australian servicemen to make
their homes in this country, it seems only
fair that they should also be relaxed to
let Chang Sow Khong return here.
Chang is a British subject, of Chinese
parentage, born in Malaya and educated
at a British school there. He came to
Australia to study in 1941, served four
years with the A.I.F. and after the war
gained a Bachelor of Commerce degree
at Melbourne University. A few months
ago he went to Malaya to visit his
parents; he now\claims that Australian
officials in Malaya have refused to let
him come back. Immigration Minister
Holt says the case will probably be con-
sidered as a special one. Four years’
service in the A.I.F. does make it a
special case.
• •
How “wanted” men are arrested in
Sydney—authority, Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph” :
As Doyle entered the station he paused
for a moment while photographers took
pictures. Inside the station entrance Mr.
Roach (Doyle’s solicitor) introduced Doyle
formally to the four detectives. Doyle
shook hands with each of them*.
It’s what they used to call “Old-world
courtesy.”
• •
John Cain must be thanking his lucky
stars the State election is behind him
instead of ahead. As it is, there’s a
END OF A JOYRIDE
“About time we unhitched the trailer, don't you think, Bob?”
Legislative Council by-election coming
up in Gippsland. The egg-, bacon- and
milk-men are pressing him for price-
increases, and Gippsland is the place where
most of the eggs, bacon and milk come
from. If he doesn’t grant the rise the
seat looks a gift for the Cockies ; if he
does, he’ll have his own party screaming
blue-murder.
• •
Noting that the Sydney Blottery is
now running one special and five ordinary
“drawings” a week, a firm which supplies
goods to N.S.W. public hospitals and has
had to wait too long for payment quotes
a reply it received from one of the
largest:
Unfortunately the general financial posi-
tion of the State has precluded the Govern-
ment from making available sufficient funds
to meet the needs of public hospitals.
Until the position improves in this respect
my board can only assure you that your
account will rank for payment with other
outstanding claims as the hospital’s financial
position permits.
The State gamble showed about £3 mil-
lion profit last year. Profits are paid into
Consolidated Revenue and the Govern-
ment’s contribution to hospital-upkeep
comes out of Consolidated Revenue, but
there is absolutely no relationship be-
tween the two items. Why then continue
the pretence that the Blottery is run “for
the hospitals”?
• •
Price-fixing and board-control of com-
modities go from absurdity to absurdity.
In Queensland Victorian potatoes have
been fixed at 4|d. a pound, N.S.W.
potatoes at 4£d., Queensland potatoes at
3£d., and the Prices Commissioner was
still to fix the price of South Australian
spuds when this was printed. How the
deuce housewives are to identify each
kind isn’t slated, but it’s odds on that
an extraordinary number of Victorian
potatoes will be sold.
During November last year, 47,122
new life-assurance policies were taken
out in Australia, with a total coverage
of more than £22 million. What proper-
tion of this business was accounted for
by A.L.P. policies on the lives of
“Labor’s” long-term Senators has not been
disclosed.
m m
N. S. Wales “Labor” caucus is becom-
ing more and more a family affair. Of
the new members elected on Saturday
L. M. Nott (Mudgee) is a brother of
R. B. Nott (Liverpool Plains), F. G.
Downing (Ryde) is a brother of the
Minister for Justice, and T. W. Dalton
(Sutherland) is a brother of C. A. Dalton,
M. A fourth entrant for the family-
in-politics contest is K. B. Morgan, at
present leading Liberal A. W. Butterell
in Parramatta; his father is C. A.
Morgan, Federal member for Reid.
Next to having a close relation in the
game the best way into caucus seems to
be via a private-secretaryship. N, J.
Mannix, who won Liverpool at a by-
election last year, was p.s. to the Me-
Grrrrr; W. F. Crabtree, Saturday’s victor
in Kogarah, was Clive Evatt’s. F. O’Neil,
new member for George’s River, was on
the staff of Transport Minister Sheahan.
• •
Prices Minister Finnan, defeated in
Albury after a campaign in which he
offered the people of the border city
everything but the Harbor Bridge, will be
wondering what his leader meant when
he said on the eve of polling-day:
The man on the land is specially canny.
He says little, but he thinks a lot. He
knows how to sift grain from chaff.
• •
The question often asked here,
“Where is J. M. Baddeley?” was answered
in the N. S. Wales Supreme Court last
week. For three years the former Mines
Minister, now Director of State Coal
Mines, has been living in a flat in Eliza-
beth Bay. According to his lawyer he’s
been there as a tenant; according to the
lessee of the flat his status has been that
of a guest who won’t go home. This
difference of opinion explains the
Supreme Court’s interest.
• •
S. Carberry, a wheatgrowers’ “spokes-
man,” told the N.S.W. Graziers’ Associa-
tion paper, “Muster,” that because Aus-
tralian wheatgrowers had cut down their
acreages they mightn’t be able to fulfil
quotas under a new International Wheat
Agreement and still have “free” wheat
for export. He hoped the international
wheat conference in Washington would
take this into consideration in fixing the
new quotas. He’d have done much better
to tell the growers to accept the Prime
Minister’s advice and extend their acre-
ages ; that’s the best way to get “free”
wheat.
• •
Oldham, leader of the L.C.P. in the
Victorian Parliament, prophesies that
Cain is preparing the way for “a series
of dismissals” from Government jobs just
before the Senate elecetions in May, the
intention being to express regret, but to
lay the blame on Menzies. He may be
right, but if he is it’s a cinch the idea
isn’t peculiar to Cain. Other “Labor”
Premiers will, be in it, too.
• o
One of the quaintest items of the
Doyle shindig was the aggrieved plaint
first raised by Cahill, then repeated by
Arthur, to the effect that the Libs were
hitting below the belt in trying to link
“Labor” men with Doyle—no one had
accused Liberal members of being mur-
derers because they had been associated
with murderer T. J. Ley. Ley resigned
from the N. S. Wales Parliament in 1925.
He committed his murder in England
close on a quarter of a century later.
• •
“Bumpkin”: A market-gardener in my
district had bags and bags of potatoes
under standard size. If he tried to
sell them he incurred a penalty. They
were just as good as big ones, more
nutritious and easier to cook because they
could be boiled in their jackets, yet the
bureaucrats wouldn’t permit him even to
give them away. Apparently they were
unaware that no potato plant brings
all its fruit to maturity and that some,
often half the crop, are bound to be
under standard size—but no less nutritious
for that. The pigs got ’em.
• •
The People’s Union of Motorists, the
Union of Dog-Breeders, the Union of
Carrier Pigeon Breeders, the Union of
Radio Amateurs all sound like bodies
whose peaceful aims and intentions could
hardly be questioned, but apparently
Czechoslovakia doesn’t think so; its
Communist Government has ordered the
four organisations to be absorbed by the
Army Co-operation League. They will
henceforth devote their energies to rifle-
shooting, flying, parachuting and gliding.
• •
The House of Representatives met
yesterday to begin a momentous session
in which the main pieces of legislation
will concern the reform of banking and
the division of the functions of the Com-
monwealth Bank, the removal of import
restrictions and —it is hoped—reduction
of taxation. The Premiers’ Conference
opens on Friday and is expected to be a
doleful affair punctuated by thwarted
shrieks of agony from the spendthrift
Premier of N. S. Wales.
Six weeks from now the House should
rise to allow campaigning for the Senate
election before the Prime Minister,
Speaker, President of the Senate and
others leave to attend the Coronation.
The next Canberra session will begin
about July or August, when the Budget
will be presented.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Inigo J.”: I don’t want to be a nark,
but those making the programme for the
Royal tour next year might have given
the weather a thought before choosing
February for the Queensland end. That’s
notoriously the worst month in the sugar
State for heat and humidity and flood
rains. And for next year the weather
cycles we follow at the Crohamhurst
Observatory suggest as wet a February
as could be expected, I hope her Majesty
brings a raincoat.
“Fitz”: “Bellerive” will always be best
remembered as a laureate of violent hap-
penings in The Bulletin’s “Answers to
Correspondents” column. And now he
has himself experienced just what might
have befallen an unfortunate character in
one of his poems. A fortnight ago an
entire wall of his two-story home at
North Melbourne collapsed with a terrific
roar at the height of a wild, almost
“BelledYean” storm. Fortunately, the
poet —he is now 83 —was standing at his
back gate when the wall came tumbling
down, and he escaped the flying bricks
and debiis.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Embee”; From Coblenz comes a
report that Germany’s oldest woman,
Maria Retterath, has just, celebrated her •
105th birthday in good health. And she
lives in a village named Boos.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Upagum”: Most startling heading I
ever struck in a country paper was
BROKE.
CHURCH OF ENGLAND.
ANNUAL BALL.
The locals didn’t seem to think there was
anything unusual about it. They all knew
Broke—a small town near Singleton
(N.S.W.).
“Becks”: The devastation of the North
Sea coasts of England and Holland by
a combination of strong winds and high
tides is by no means without precedent —
Haydn’s Dictionary of Dates cites a long
list, going back to Roman times. The
most disastrous was probably that of
1530, when the dikes in Holland broke
down and the number drowned was “said
to have been 400,000.” In the previous
century, according to Haydn, the sea
broke in at Dort (now Dordrecht) and
“drowned 72 villages and 100,000 people,”
“It fires fifteen times without reloading.”
In England the most notable, apart from
that of 1686 in Yorkshire, when “a rock
opened and poured out water to the
height of a church-steeple,” was the inun-
'dation of the year 1100, when Earl God-
win’s lands on the coast of Kent were
recaptured by the sea, to form the now-
famous Goodwin Sands. In this con-
nection, Brewer’s Dictionary of Phrase
and Fable records an old saying: “Ten-
terden steeple was the cause of the Good-
win Sands.” The explanation of this
apparent paradox lies in the allegation
that the Bishop of Rochester built the
steeple out of money which should have
been applied to the upkeep of the sea-
walls. I wonder if any steeples have
been built along England’s east coast
recently?
♦♦♦
“E. & O.E.”c A mixed force of
Tasmanian National Service trainees,
returned soldiers and C.M.F. volunteers
has toured the Speck in a convoy of
approximately 50 motor-vehicles; they
had two weeks of camp-life on wheels.
This has given invaluable practice to the
drivers of jeeps, three-ton trucks, motor-
cycles, Army-ducks, tank-transporters,
with semi-trailers and recovery-vehicles
“ Don't try to reverse, dear—drive out through the bathroom .”
°f every kind, over a variety of roads.
The convoy was fed by four young trainee
f °, s ’ and slept at night in their
l } was also a new experience for
inhabitants of the numerous small towns
and villages to see their Army go by;
as a rule boys just disappear into camp
and no one knows any more about them.
This was a fine show, warmly welcomed
everywhere, and, as one who was forced
by the exigencies of the route to travel
for miles with the Army, I can speak in
the highest terms of their road manners.
+♦♦ ♦♦♦ *x*
“Ceg”: I don’t suppose many of the
countless thousands who surge up and
down Bourke-street, Melbourne, have
noticed the small bronze plaque set in
the front of one of the buildings between
Swanston- and Elizabeth-streets. It is
well above eye-level and for that reason
somewhat inconspicuous. Placed there
in 1945 by Cobb and Co.’s Old Drivers’
Association, it commemorates the site
from which the famous coaches departed
for the goldfields in 1854. In addition
to giving that information, the plaque
depicts a fully-loaded coach drawn by a
team of four horses. For the benefit
of the denizens of Bourke-street, it might
be mentioned that the horse is the animal
which is used in the formula for. arriving
at the power of car-engines. It may still
be seen in circuses and on racecourses.
❖ ❖ ❖
“She”: That A.W.U. decision to keep
females out of shearing-sheds (B.
4/2/’53) would have pleased Henry
Lawson, who, in “The Shearing Shed,”
described how disruptive their presence
could be; a proscription on swearing
for one thing, and then the sad experi-
ence of one Jack Moonlight who, heavily
disguised in “a bristling beard, bronzed
skin, and his shearer’s dress,” recognises
one of the fair visitors as his lost love.
On the other hand Lawson wrote “The
Shearer’s Dream,” in which “every one
of the rouseabouts was a girl dressed up
as a boy”— : a pleasant fancy, especially as
“There was three of them girls to every
chap, and six of ’em picked on me.”
Must say I sympathise with the shearers.
During the war I took a job in a factory
where women were previously barred;
the sight of apoplectic blokes who had
been warned that even the mildest cuss
was forbidden hurt me almost as much
as it hurt them. And there was the
time when I walked in on a particularly
funny (if undeniably obscene) bit of
repartee and disgraced myself by laughing,
I realised that if I’d pretended not to
have heard no one would have been em-
barrassed. As it was, a large notice
appeared on the doorway: “CAUTION:
GUARD THE TONGUE! Unfortu-
nately LADIES? likely to be present.”
“A. 8.”: It’s called not letting one side
of your mind know what the other side
thinks. Firstly, a letter to the editor,
Melbourne “Herald” (6/2/’53);
I would suggest that Australia immediately
offer asylum to the Dutch people displaced
by the recent storm.
Are there any Dutch people here willing
to help with this idea?
Secondly, another letter to the editor,
same paper, same day, same page, same
signature:
I think that migration to Australia should
now be put on the basis of one foreigner
for every 100 English or Scotch migrants.
Let us keep Australia British.
❖❖ ' ❖
“Irving”; The situation envisaged by
“Fairf” (B. 21/l/’53) in relation to the
exact minute of arrival of new inhabitants
of this crazy world was mirthfully ex-
ploited by Eric Linklater in his novel
Poets' Pub. , The principal, or at least
the noisiest, character in Linklater’s situa-
tion is the doughty Scots laird who,
rather originally, had named each of his
six offspring after the day of the week
on which the youngster was born. Nature
and the calendar had co-operated sport-
ingly till on the seventh happy occasion
the laird found himself, just before mid-
night, in a position whereby he would
have had to abandon his system of
Christian nomenclature or reconcile him-
self to two man-Fridays in his family.
In his anguish, outside the door on the
other side of which his lady was in travail,
he implored; “Hold him, lass! Just a
few minutes more! ” Doric stoicism and
wifely sympathy for the stricken sire
combined to win the day, and so was
born Saturday Keith, the hero of Link-
later’s rollicking yarn.
❖ * ♦
“Lucky”: R.A.A.F. types financially
pressed on trips to New York during
their training-period in Canada have
affectionate memories of Digger slouch-
hats, Many an R.A.A.F. man, correctly
attired, but carrying a battered slouch-
hat in his belt, would be engaged in
conversation by hospitable Yanks in
New York saloons. The plumage on
the hat, he would tell them if they asked
him, or if they did not, was emu-feathers
(plucked from a feather-duster —a point he
did not mention). Further news was that
the Australian Army had decided to re-
introduce the plumes which had so dis-
tinguished the Light Horseman of 1914-19.
This particular example, however, was
the identical hat worn by Chips Rafferty
in “Forty Thousand Horsemen,” the
R.A.A.F. type being a personal friend of
Mr. Rafferty. Either the listeners hadn’t
seen the picture, or were surprised that
picture-making was practised down-under,
or were capable of being well-deceived;
usually the R.A.A.F. type could make an
unsteady exit with enough of the 12
dollars the souvenir slouch-hat had
changed hands for to make possible an-
other day’s celebration.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Emjai”; One of “Ceg’s” pieces of
artillery (B. 28/l/’53) found its way,
50-odd years ago, to Tarnagulla (Vic.),
then a live mining-town ; it was mounted
on the bank of the swimming-dam in the
recreation-reserve. Reputed to be from
the old Nelson, it was a squat muzzle-
loader on a heavy wooden carriage, and
it was buffered against recoil by piles
sunk into the bank and cross-sleepers.
Its arrival fitted with the event of the
year, New Year’s Day sports, and the
star turn was to be the firing of the
cannon. “Pa” Cheetham and Ted Hayes,
a miner who knew about explosives,
were in charge. They rammed in a hefty
issue of black powder (or it might have
been dynamite) with a sprinkling of
powder around the touch-
hole. “Pa” reckoned it
would be better for a greas-
ing, which he did with cart-
grease on a billet of wood,
and he had just withdrawn
his arm from the barrel
when Ted put his match to
the touch-hole. It was some
time before the smoke and
dust cleared to enable
casualties to be assessed. No
one was killed, but “Pa”
and the nearest rubbernecks
were flattened, the sleeper-
buffers had been splintered and the
cannon was in the dam. It knocked the
bottom out of the rest of the sports, as
all within close range were deaf for the
rest of the day, and iron quoits, Sheffield
and bike-races were tame stuff in com-
parison. The billet “Pa” left in the barrel
was never sighted, and the gun was
allowed to rest on its laurels, and was not
fired again.
A SIMPLE REMEDY
“Until he bought an old car my husband
was contented with my company at night, and
he used to take an interest in the home. After
that he used to spend practically every night
in the garage, and that led to continual argu-
ments.”—Wife in divorce.
When vows were swapped and they were
v duly mated.
She thought him quite the ideal sort
of spouse,
For quickly he became domesticated;
He loved to do the chores around the
house.
And in the evenings, with his pipe and
slippers.
He’d be content to listen to her yap
Of homely things, like whether she’d put
zippers
Or buttons on the shirts made for the
nippers.
He’d never flare and snap.
Nor would he shriek: “What! Not
again!” whenever
His missus indicated that her Mom
Was coming on a visit. Naught whatever.
It seemed, their partnership could ever
sever —
And then he bought a “bomb” !
Alas ! All other jobs he soon was shelv-
ing ;
His gardens and his lawns all went to
pot
As in its innards he began his delving
To find out why the spark-plugs got
so hot.
Where once he lingered for post-prandial
yarn, he’d
Rush off to the garage, no time to lose.
Small wonder, then, it was they often
barneyed ;
To her ’twas worse than betting or the
booze.
For wives so placed, the moral’s plain:
Don’t panic
And dump a husband who’s been so
hard-won.
Nor try to steer his thought to things
botanic.
Learn to become an automobile mechanic.
And show him how it’s done!
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


“Pore Punkah”: Ned Kelly was a
pimp. He got £5OO Ifor shelling his
former bushranger pal. Power, to the
traps. That’s the word from ex-trooper
Mick Toohey, who was in the Vic. police
force at the time and has just been dis-
covered, at the age of 95, in the Corowa
(N.SLWI) hospital. Mick told Albury
“Border Mail” about it. He joined the
force in ’74 (he’d be 17 then) and ran
into Ned one day. “He was most respect-
ful to women and never took more drink
than he could hold.” After doing jail
for something or other Ned went and
lived with an uncle of his named Quinn.
The Quinn gossoon had a trained peacock
which sounded the alarm when strangers
approached.
Power approached, and the information
was passed on to Superintendent Nicholson
for the information Ned was paid a
reward of £5OO
Now, if anybody wants a fight over this
leave me out. I’m only telling you what
Mick told the reporter.
* *
“Spokeshave”: The usual argument
about the Archibald Prize rumpus was
going on in a Melbourne ca £6, and Bill
was sitting listening glumly while Bert
and half a dozen other members of the
“Contemporary” persuasion were doing
the talking. Suddenly Bill said: “I don’t
agree with what you say, Bert.” “Why
not?” asked Bert. “I believe in the
dynamic fluidity of concrete thought,”
Bill said. Bert pondered for a moment
and then said: “But those are only
phrases without any meaning.” “I
know,” said Bill. “Isn’t that what you’re
playing?”
♦♦♦
“Lucky”: Eire’s neutrality during
1939-45 (B. 21 /1 / ’53) produced some ex-
hilarating situations, especially for Air
Force types forced down in that distressful
country. Among these were quite a few
Irish-Australians of the third generation
who found themselves in a durance far
from vile in possibly the very dungeons
in which their forebears had suffered.
With scrupulous adherence to the canons
of neutrality the Irish police-sergeant
would fling the crashed ones into a cell
bare of all furnishing except a lounge-
chair and a feather-bed, “loaned by the
ould woman so ye’ll slape aisy,” with
nothing to eat except roast pork and
praties,, and nothing in the way of
creature comforts beyond lashings of
porter and delicately-blended cigars. Then
the prisoner would be cunningly inveigled
into disclosing stories of life in Boggabri
or Bungaree, to which place the jailer’s
cousin Paddy had emigrated “more than
a gineration ago.” After this merciless
gruelling the sergeant then usually handed
over a parcel, with the stern warning
“Don’t let me hear ye bletherin’ here in
the marnin’,” and left the prisoner in
solitude, after carefully forgetting to lock
the door. The parcel usually contained
“Let her go, Bert—We'll Wait for somethin' in the luxury class.”
enough provender to sustain the “escapee”
on the first part of the journey to Ulster
and, as often as not, directions as to the
best way to hitchhike to the border.
' “Mib”; Re “Turnpike’s” plea for a
hymn for those in peril on the roads
(B. 14/1/’53). There is one already,
though I don’t know whether it is sung
in churches. Under the title “Prayer for
the Safety of Road Users” it has been
recorded by Peter Dawson with the
A.B.C. Sydney Singers and Orchestra.
&
“Bo”: Shostakovich (B. 11/2/’53) was
also inspired to composition by another
Scottish character of verse, but by proxy,
as it were. As obviously nobody would
be silly enough, even in Moscow, to want
to listen to a Shostakovich version of
“Macbeth” when Verdi had already
covered that ground, the Soviet composer
turned to the next-best thing, Leskoff’s
story, “Lady Macbeth of Mzensk,” and
made of it an “opera.” The lady, it
seems, was “victim of the brutal class-
life of the old regime:” Shos. con-
veniently omitted her third murder of the
five she eventually accomplished, for this
was a sordid one for gain, and to a Soviet
composer the profit-motive is like juggling
“This peaceful enough, Minnie?”
a can of T.N.T. Need it be said that the
surroundings are sordid and miserable,
that she gives her lover a hand to strangle
her husband and that among the bump-
ings-off is one of a convict prostitute,
rival for her lover’s affections? There is
also another typically cheerful Russian
scene in which a (corpse is located by
the smell, thus breaking up a wedding-
dinner (why such a trifle should break
up a Russian wedding-dinner is a
mystery). Yet over Shostakovich’s head
hangs, and will continue to hang, a
hair-suspended sword, which Comrade
Beria may cut whenever he chooses to
remember, not that the “heroine” was a
victim of bourgeois greed, but that Shos.
used in the title of his opera a name also
used by that minion of Western
plutocracy, Shakspeare.
“Kesem”: Touching on the “Old Jim-
bour” writer’s mention of Dennis and
Leslie as pioneer venturers to the Darling
Downs (B. 31/12/’52), Leslie and his
Irish servant, a convict, are generally
accepted as being the first white men to
get there after explorer Cunningham
made his first trip in 1827. On Leslie’s
return to Sydney in 1840 Governor Gipps
asked what he could do for him as a
reward for opening up settlement on such
a splendid area of country. Fine gentle-
man that Leslie was, he merely asked that
his servant be given a ticket-of-leave.
The Governor went further; he granted
the man, Peter Murphy, a conditional
pardon. Murphy later “became an over-
seer on Leslie’s property; he died at
Charters Towers in 1878, aged 72.
❖
“Pandanus”: Mum made, a bread-and-
butter custard with lots of raisins in it—
but where, oh where, had she put. the
thing? It wasn’t in the oven; it wasn’t
in the fridge. It wasn’t even in the dog,
or we would have found the dish. Our
only caller had been an apparently well-
fed electrician. After lunch Mum looked
thoughtful. Then Lheard her ringing up
the electrician. “You know that stovette
that you took away for repairs this morn-
ing when you brought the other one
back? Well, there’s a perfectly good
baked custard inside it: you’d better eat
it up, or give it to the fowls.”
♦♦♦ ♦> *X*
“Muskeen”: The kilt (B. 4/2/’53),
being a Highland Scottish and therefore
Celtic dress, the O’Gradys, Reillye,
O’Briens and so forth have a better right
to wear it than the Bruces and other
Lowland Scottish, who are Sassenachs.
Prior to World War I there was, in a
territorial battalion of the Black Watch,
a company composed entirely of Dublin
Irishmen. What’s in a'name, anyway?
The O’Mays and O’Shannachahs are septs
of the clan Macdonald.
♦♦♦ *> ❖
“H.C.”: Rummaging among some old
family letters the other day I came on
one dated “London, July 31, 1854.” It
was to be delivered to an English lady
in Western Australia by a Mr. Fleay,
who “is going to return to Western Aus-
tralia in a day or two.” Now, on re-
reading the Letters of Rachel Henning,
I find that she left England in the Cal-
cutta on August 14, 1854. I wonder if
the two were fellow-passengers?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Spohson”: For months I’ve been
following with growing bewilderment the
advertisements of a U.S. shipping-line
that runs luxury cruises to the Caribbean
—seems they do everything to cover up
the horrid fact that one is at sea. There
are, in these gilded packets, shopping-
centres and beauty-salons—very essential
in a ship that might be at sea for as
much as 36 hours at a stretch; there are
swimming-pools, cocktail-bars, dance-
floors and cabarets. There are crooners,
swooners and a host of other pests any
self-respecting skipper would dump over
the side. And now, to crown all, one
of the floating fun-parlors offers all the
thrills of clay-bird shooting on what
appears to be the boat deck! None of
the glamorous dames with sun-tanned
Apollos in tow seems more than 22 ;
their swains are equally youthful; and
the bronzed jobs in white-and-gold
smirking at them shouldn’t be out without
their mothers. But maybe I’m spoilt.
My last trip was in a 2000-tonner with
20 passengers, a tin-tub in the bathroom,
a battered shuffleboard set, and the in-
vigorating perfume of 700 Kimberley
bullocks wafting over all.
❖ ❖ *
“Unga”: I’ve Often given thanks for
Scotch-tape, that modern substitute for
string. A variant of it, Scotchlite, is now
saving the lives of cyclists in the U.S.A.
in a manner that could well be imitated
in Australia. Every square inch of the
non-adhesive side of Scotchlite is studded
with thousands of tiny glass convex lenses,
thus giving it a high capacity for reflect-
ing light. Wound round handle-bars,
frame and mudguards it makes a bicycle
stand out in the headlights of a car at
night from more than 100yds. away.
♦♦♦ *
“Ida D.”: It is not only New Aus-
tralians who know the value of so-called
“weeds” as a help to greens in the diet
(B. 4/2/’53). When I lived in Patagonia
the peons used a dandelion salad as
accompaniment to the asado —a whole
sheep roasted over the coals. The white
leaves of the plant, before they break
ground tp reach the surface, are used:
they are then very tender and sweet;
once they show above ground they be-
come bitter. Many a dandelion-hunt
my pupils and I used to have. The salad
takes a very light dressing of oil and
vinegar; and each, diner helps himself
from the bowl with his fingers, as he cuts
his own meat from the asado. And is it
good? I’ll say! Also, I’ve heard my father
say that in the drought-times on Monaro,
in the 1850’s, “fat-hen” and nettles were
often used as vegetables. “Boggabri,”
the name of the town, is abo. for the
native spinach which grows out there ;
the abos used it, and it was a standby to
the whites in the early days.
* * *l*
“Billy S.”: Just before Christmas I
wandered into a city emporium soon after
opening-time. It seemed very peaceful,
although the elderly salesman who
attended to me appeared to have a dis-
tinctly harassed and worried look. A
hefty extrovert behind the counter slapped
him on the back and said “Won’t be
long now, Bertram, old boy.” Bertram
looked at his watch, turned paler and
agreed. Then it hit us. Bedlam was let
loose, with shrieks, groans, yells and
maniacal laughter, and through it all the
maddening strain of canned music very
much out of tune and overloud. I asked
Bertram what the din was. He cupped
a quivering hand to his mouth and
shouted “I beg your pardon, sir.” I did
likewise and repeated my question. He
screamed back at me “That, sir—that,
sir, is Pixieland. It goes on all day, and
every day; it’s a so-called entertainment
for the Young of Sydney,” Seeming
glad of the chance to get something off
his chest, he shouted on “My wife and
I have not been blessed with children.
Distressed us both a great deal. But
when I think of Pixieland I sometimes
feel it was all for the best.”
MELBOURNE, SUNDOWN
That fire-station tower wears
An aureole of evening airs,
The backwash and the overflow
Of sunset and the afterglow;
And radio-masts and smokestacks thrust
Grey pinnacles up through golden dust.
One tall cathedral’s topmost spar
Has captured an unquiet star.
Uncrumpling in the early dusk
Even as a poppy from its husk;
And poppy-red the windows grow.
Rectangular gardens in a row ;
While small square roses flush and fade
On many a branch of climbing shade
Gasometers turn to round dark towers
Holding strong forts against strange
powers.
The lights flash on, the shadows fail
And all is as a fairytale.
I hear above the traffic’s noise
The plaintive calls of paper-boys.
Now dying mournfully away
Like bird-notes at the end of day.
Now suddenly urgent through the gloom
As though they cried the crack-o’-doom.
Swerving and gliding down the rails
Like headless snakes with golden scales
The railway-yards are iron lanes
For clattering electric-trains,
A world of green and ruby lights
And hurrying iron fly-by-nights.
Across the ranges to the east
Black night comes padding like a beast
On velvet paws, sure of the kill.
The hills crouch down, the stars stand
still.
The dwindling ranges disappear.
Another pace—and night is here.
But little cares the incurious town.
Impatient trams storm up and dpwn.
On to the cleansing of the tide
Sophisticated waters slide.
(Even as once through Babylon )
The zest of living still goes on.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


When It's on
Exide—you start!
R* ise
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
IXMI
PERSONAL ITEMS
Both the Northern Colliery Prop.
Association and the N.S.W. Combined
Colliery Prop. Association seem to think
that Ted Warren’s the boy for them —-
anyway, both concerns have elected him
their chairman for the fifth successive
term. Bom within sight of the mines at
Broken Hill, Warren joined J. and A.
Brown Collieries as an office rouseabout,
and ended up in an office with general-
manager on the door. His rise was inter-
rupted by a sea trip (before he had a
vote) to Gallipoli, with further Eighteenth
Battalion stoushing in France. Warren
began his chairmanship in 1949, the year
of the general coal strike, and had plenty
more to worry him. Now he finds the
going much easier, and no complaints
about it.
Writing advertisements in the sky would
seem to be a pleasant way of earning
a living, and, according to Fred Hoin-
ville, of “Sky-Ads,” Sydney’s only prac-
titioner, it is all that. But there are a
few snags, the main one being the neces-
sity of picking a perfectly clear day. Air-
currents can play the devil with air-
signwriting, and a cloud, even 50 miles
away, can spoil the background. The
flying is done horizontally, on compass-
bearings, the average length of a letter
being 2000 ft. Bora in Adelaide, educated
in Melbourne, and in the taxi business in
AERIAL ADVERTISER
Sydney, Hoinville caught the idea of sky-
writing for advertising five years ago,
when he was doing aerial aerobatics at
various carnivals in Queensland, N.S.W.
and Victoria. It took him five years to
get official permission. His interest in
flying started in 1943 with the Royal
Aero Club in Sydney. Now 45, he is
back from a trip to Spain, England,
Germany and America. In Spain he was
one of a two-man team representing Aus-
tralia in the world glider championship,
which game will be included in the
Olympics as soon as agreement is reached
on uniformity of gliders. In Germany
he competed again, using a glider lent to
him by Hanna Reitsch, the famous woman
ace. In America he found glider clubs
very active, and was pressed into work as
an official. Likeness by Lusby.
The Queen has selected one of Eng-
land’s most distinguished historians,
John Wheeler-Bennett, to write the official
biography of her father. A foreign-affairs
expert, engaged to write the history of
the Nuremberg Trials —he was on the
prosecuting team there —after the war
Wheeler-Bennett was appointed editor-in-
chief of the documents captured from the
German Foreign Office. Author of a
score of books, mainly politico-historical,
at present he’s historical adviser to the
British Foreign Office.
Musical composer Dom Moreno, of the
monastery at New Norcia (W.A.), has
gone to visit his home-town, Corello, in
the Spanish province of Navarre, which
he left for New Norcia 32 years back.
One reason for the trip was the Spanish
Government’s decision to defray the cost
of publishing all his compositions, except
the few in which the music has been
wedded to English words. Among the
exceptions are settings of verses from
John O’Brien's Round the Boree Log.
While in Spain, Dom Moreno will broad-
cast by invitation from Radio Nacional,
Madrid. The return trip will be made
through France, Italy, Germany, England,
Ireland and the U.S.
Latest arrival (acting) on the Victorian
Supreme Court Bench, Edward Herbert
Hudson had already looked down from
that elevation —when Sir Edmund Herring
stepped down to step-up recruiting.
Winner of the Supreme Court Judges’
prize on graduating from Melbourne
University in 1918, Hudson has since
built up one of the largest practices in
Melbourne, himself figuring as a leader of
the Equity Bar. In War II he held the
post of Judge Advocate-General to the
Air Force for four years from 1942. A
low-mark golfer (one-time captain of
Riversdale G.C.) he holds, also, an en-
thusiastic brief for troutfishing.
Vale Hal Colcbatch:
Hal Colebatch, who died last week, was one
pf many English-born who made their names
in W.A. He was a solid but companionable
fellow, in his prime the complete man of the
world whom nothing astonished and nothing
daunted. He had a meagre primary education
(which, in time, he turned into the broadest
kind of practical omniscience out of his own
experience) at Goolwa School (S.A.); his
people came out from Hereford in 1878, when
he was six years old. He started life as a
journalist in the days of W.A.’s beginnings
as a State under Big John Forrest, and made
his first run in politics in the Municipal
Council of Northam, of which he was mayor,
1909-12. At 51 he had finished his State
political career, had been Premier of W.A.
and had retired to the Agent-General’s job in
London, where his ability and enterprise soon
made him well recognised. Bruce appointed
him a member of the royal commission on the
Constitution in 1927, the year he returned from
London and was knighted, and he sat in the
Senate, 1928-33, viewing the politics of the
period, and particularly the atmosphere of the
Senate, with distaste. He was probably too
good a businessman to achieve public popularity
m the political field, but he was a man whose
reputation will deservedly grow. Eighty-one
at his passing in W.A., he was a member of
the Council of the Imperial Society of Knights
Bachelor.
New Deputy-Chief of the General Staff,
Major-General Alwyn Garrett, was born
at Northam (W.A.), son of a banker.
He had for godfather another banker
of the town, James Mitchell, destined to
become Westralia’s Governor. A Dun-
troon man, Garrett went early to the
Middle East, got out of Crete, had a
fighting period with the British Seventh
Armored Division back in the desert, then
brought his armored know-how back
home to help establish the First Armored
Division at Pucka. Next, Bougainville,
C.8.E., and, with the cease-fire, posting
to Japan as principal administrative
officer of 8.C.0.F. There he became
friendly with the British Prime Minister’s
representative at MacArthur’s head-
quarters, Sir Charles Gairdner —destined
also, like Garrett’s godfather, for the
Westralian Governorship; in fact, suc-
ceding Mitchell. Garrett saw more of
his 8.C.0.F, friend when, as G.O.C.
Western Command, he was posted to
Perth two years ago. His son saw his
soldiering with the Army of the Rhine.
Arrived in Melbourne, leading
Jewish educationist Rabbi Juda Avid a,
who, with his grey beard, bears a strong
resemblance to Max Meldrum. He’s
here to help raise £lOO,OOO for the pro-
posed Mount Scopus War Memorial Col-
lege.
Doyen of Victorian advertising men,
W. L. Russell has retired from the Myer
Emporium in Melbourne. A baritone
of some distinction himself, he formed
the Myer Choir of 120 voices.
“W.E.F.”: The other day I picked up in a
bookshop a copy of “The Lone Hand” for
February, 1910, containing an article on Norman
Lindsay written by John Hall, which reminded
me that the ever-youtfiful Norman will be 74
on February 23. The article is accompanied by
reproductions of striking illustrations by
Norman, drawn in his early teens. At 14 he was
illustrating scenes from The Three Musketeers
and “Hamlet”—drawings which exhibit an
extraordinary maturity for that age. His
drawings of Sir Roger de Coverley and Don
Quixote are examples of his fine work in his
15th year. At 17 Norman did a remarkable
set of “Boccaccio” illustrations noteworthy for
the marvellous delicacy of the pen-work, and
“we see” (said Hall) “the artist finding, for
the first time, his individual artistic method.”
It was these “Boccaccio” drawings that excited
the interest of Julian Ashton, J. F. Archibald
and William Macleod and paved the way to a
staff job for Norman on The Bulletin, with
which he has been linked for more than half-
a-century.
Hall gives an idea of Norman at the time
he was illustrating “Boccaccio.” “A lank,
pale lad, evilly nourished —for the diet provided
by the 6d. restaurant was only fit for the cast-
iron digestion of a lumper —and the gods had
framed him delicately. Wearing always a hat
which required a liberal allowance of paper
under the band to make it habitable, the great
tie cut in the approved fashion of Montmartre,
and a sleek brown overcoat, with moulted
astrakhan on cuffs and collars, the nickname
of the ‘Polish Count’ he had acquired, was,
if anything, rather appropriate. He smoked
continuously, a small clay pipe generally; and
a little ‘Rabelais’ was never out of his pocket.”
Norman wore out three editions of this
“Rabelais” —the one immortalised by Brown-
ing—and was always cutting little wood-blocks
to embellish it. One of these copies, filled with
strange and charming little drawings, was once
a treasured possession of Julian Ashton. I
wonder what collector of early Lindsay items
owns it today?
Elected to the Queensland University
Senate, Sir Raphael Cilento, Colonel Jack
Keith Murray and Professor Gordon
Greenwood. One of Australia’s top
experts on tropical diseases, Sir Raphael
was Director of Refugees for U.N. before
settling in Brisbane. He graduated at
Adelaide University. Murray, till
recently New Guinea’s Administrator,
was for 18 years from 1927 Professor
of Agriculture at Queensland University.
Greenwood has the History Chair there,
and is Dean of the Faculty of Arts.
The face with a good cutting-edge to
it here presented is the property of
Horace Herbert, manager of Union
Trustees, Brisbane. With that concern
for over 30 years, he learnt his account-
ancy in New Zealand (b. Dunedin), joined
the ’Wales over there, and was transferred
to an Australian branch in 1909. Sydney
University gave him his Economics
ACCOUNTANCY AND ESTATES
degree, and David Jones his salary, for
a period after War I, as financial manager.
In Brisbane since 1921, Herbert has
worked solidly out-of-office, presiding, at
different times, over the Queensland Tax-
payers’ Association, the Brisbane Club
and the R.A.C.Q. Once a Rugby Union
man, he now figures-up golf-cards.
Coventrated hereunder, Norman Tin-
dale, ethnologist of S. Australia’s museum
and authority on the abo.; at the moment
he’s working on an up-to-date tribal map
of Australia. His dad then being a Salvo
officer on mission-work in Japan and
China, young Tindale was taken to
Nippon as a six-year-old, and was subse-
quently educated in German, Swiss,
ABO. AUTHORITY
French and American schools, showing a
leaning towards science and natural
history. A famed American butterfly-
collector, W. J. Holland, visiting Japan,
inspired a troop of Boy Scouts, Tindale
among ’em, to collect insects. Tindale
retained the bug, and his collection now
forms a substantial part of the museum’s
insect display. In War II he enlisted in
the R.A.A.F., but spent most of his time
on loan to the U.S. Army, in charge of a
section of military intelligence in Wash-
ington—he. speaks Japanese like a Jap,
He’s been with the S.A. museum for the
past 35 years, with breaks exploring
Groote Eylandt and Cape York, and
leading the Harvard-Adelaide University
Anthropological Expedition just before
War H.
Another award in world class has come
the way of Sir Frank Macfarlane Burnett,
of the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute in
Melbourne. This time the Toronto Uni-
versity (Canada) has given him the
Charles Micle Fellowship for his work
on virus diseases (the honor goes to the
man who has done most to advance
preventive medicine in the previous 10
years).
Into the Silence;
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 70, Humphrey
Holderness, for 20 years Christchurch manager
of the N.Z. Shipping Co. till his retirement
in 1947, when he became a director. In War I
Holderness was a captain with the Rifle Brigade
and, later, staff-captain in the Ist and 2nd
Brigades of the N.Z. Division, winning M.C.
and two “mentions.” In War II he went over-
seas with the 3rd echelon, chief ships’-quarter-
master.
At 87, F. C. Curr, station-owner and north-
Queensland pioneer. Born in the north, he was
granted a Fellowship of the Royal Geographical
Society for his work in opening the area and
his exploration of the Gulf country. A son,
Flying-Officer F. C. Curr, won D.F.M.-and-
Bar before he was lost in War 11.
In Geelong, Lt.-Colonel F. C. Purnell, one
of Victoria’s leading architects. For the past
28 years secretary of the Geelong branch of
the . Town Planning Association, he was
responsible for the fine avenue of trees which
lines the road from that city to Melbourne.
An old Geelong Collegian, early in War I
he was commandant of the A.I.F. training-
camp on Geelong racecourse before shifting
to France, attached to a British tank-unit.
In Christchurch (N.Z.) at 72, Sir Frank
Charles Hears, president of the Royal Scottish
Academy between 1944-50 and Fellow of the
Royal Institute of British Architects. An
authority on town- and rural-planning in Scot-
land, Sir Frank numbered among his big works
the King George VI Bridge (Aberdeen), the
memorial to Dr. Livingstone and the Royal
Scots’ Memorial in Princes-street, Edinburgh.
He had come out to visit his son in Christ-
church.
At 65, in Adelaide, Arthur Sydney Diamond,
for years secretary to Adelaide’s Lord Mayor
—the most memorable functions he arranged
in that capacity were the civic receptions to the
Prince of Wales and the Duke and Duchess ot
York. In 1931 he founded the Shiplovers
Society of S. Australia.


THEIR MOVE!


ABORIGINALITIES
“Tom Sawyer”: A Government
department had ordered a dressed flitch
of hardwood, 12in. by 18in. by 6ft. long,
ans the yard mob were called to lift the
stick on to the rollers for machining.
After speculation as to what it would be
ultimately used for, it was heaved up and
run through. Returning for the reverse
planing, it was carried by three men
aside, and all would have been well had
not Blue removed his hat, placed it
reverently on the flitch and said solemnly:
“He wasn’t a bad poor b d, was he?”
Lofty saw the joke first, laughed, and
dropped his end. The flitch began to
slide, and Pedro—the New Australian,
and the only one who couldn’t see the
joke, anyway—scored a broken toe and
six weeks’ compo. Blue reckoned some
people have all the luck.
* ♦ * *
“Olive Willey”; Animals have their
personalities just as plainly marked as
human beings. On our farm at Karl-
garin, in the Westralian wheatbelt, there
“He insisted on facing the engine .”
are three dogs and a cat. Rex, the once-
clever but now-ageing sheepdog, tries to
replace the partial loss of teeth, sight and
hearing by savage bullying. Jim, his six-
year-old nephew, has always been a
happy-natured larrikin, not very clever
with the sheep, but always willing to‘help
even after the* boss has sworn at him
for driving them the wrong way, Nip,
aged 18 months, is a dignified and silent
kelpie, so slick at rounding-up sheep that
it is deemed safer to put him on the
chain each night. Both Nip and Rex
ignore the cat, which is deeply attached to
Jim. When she was a kitten Jim delighted
in tumbling her in the dust; that she
secretly liked this, despite a show of in-
dignation, she would demonstrate later
by sleeping cuddled against Jim’s chest
while he gazed at her with a doggy
ft
"Did you say something about tripe-hound ?”
grin. One day Jim was on the chain
and Rex was free. The greedy old dog
made a grab at Jim’s bone. Stirred from
his usual amiability, Jim made a grab at
Rex and the fight was on. Puss, hearing
her friend in trouble, rushed to the scene
of battle and with one long, swift claw-
ing down his face drove the aggressor off,
yelping. A Week ago Puss had kittens,
and the boss drowned them. The
bereaved cat searched the place for them,
meowing pitifully. Sighting Nip she flew
at him and raked him with her claws.
Then she gave Rex the same treatment.
But to Jim she gave her usual friendly
greeting, purring against his legs, telling
her hero plainly that he was above sus-
picion.
* * * *
“Bula”: The wives of some of the
married staff don’t always feel safe at
home while their husbands are on night-
shift in the island sugarmills, and it
has become customary for a young un-
married officer on day-shift to sleep the
night at such houses. The practice was
originally known as “watch-dogging,” but
later came to be called “bull-dogging.”
At one mill-town a theft occurred while
the owner of the house was on night-
shift. The police inspector, an Indian
who prided himself on his knowledge of
English, and its idioms, discovered that
a junior officer had been “bull-dogging”
at the house. Getting a little con-
fused by the term, he asked the officer,
“Mr. Jones, you remember the night last
week when you were ‘tom-catting’ at
Mrs. Smith’s house?”
* * * ♦
“Old-timer”: Not long after we in-
stalled some chooks in a pen near the
river (letting them run free by day and
locking thent in at night because of
marauding foxes) the big Murray water-
rats found that by burrowing through
the soft earthern floor they could enjoy
a poultry diet. So we concreted the floor
and strengthened the sides of the shed.
One night the Dasher awoke me. “Fox
in the chooks,” he said. “Listen!” I
listened, grabbed the gun, and we went
forth. No fox. The chooks were scream-
ing their heads off. Then, in a back
corner we spotted a porcupine. He’d
given up trying to dig through the con-
crete and was crouched like a ball with
his little forepaws over his eyes, looking
for all the world like a guilty little boy
waiting to be smacked. Dasher got a
long-handled shovel and we heaved Porcy
out. How did he get in? That’s what
we still want to know.
* * * *
“Villefair”: But wasn’t Bronco pre-
maturely aged to be “slow, dopey” and
spending “the evening of his days” at
“about 15” years of age (B. 14/1 /’53)?
After all, he was only equivalent to a
man, say, between 35 and 40, and
although the human animal may be on
the down grade, organically and athleti-
cally, at that age he is often physically,
and invariably mentally, stronger then
than he was in early manhood. Occa-
sionally, too, a man like Jersey Joe crops
up: champion of the world at a con-
fessed, and conservative, 43. And a horse
like Rocky Ned! Unless my memory is
misleading me the buckjumper was 33
when he was retired. As I recall it, his
owner, showman Thorpe MacConville,
announced the horse’s age, and the fact
that he was doing his last circuit, when I
saw the chestnut in action last, around
1939. At that, no local rider craved the
honor of beating the old veteran. Mac-
Conville’s eldest son took the ride, and
succeeded in staying put for the required
number of seconds ; but he was a splendid
rider—it takes a first-class horseman to
be able to jump from the ropes and be
riding the moment he hits the saddle.
Rocky never allowed anybody to “get
set.” As a poignant addendum: thb boy
was killed in a grimmer ride —with the
R.A.A.F., over Germany.
* ♦ . ♦ *
“Jackstay”; One more spark in the
“electric-ray” discussion. In his latest
book T. C. Roughley deals with the
shark-fishery which once operated from
Pindimar, Port Stephens (N.S.W.), and
he states that many of the sharks were
found, when opened, to be chockful of
Torpedo vulgaris —which shows that the
shark has his uses. It is not stated
whether these had been bitten by the
shark—which should have got him the
ray’s full charge—but even if they were
simply swallowed whole the mere fact
that they touchfed mouth, gullet and
stomach gave them ample opportunity to
use their only means of defence. Would
it be that the shark is in some way insu-
lated, or a non-conductor —or does he,
like the connoisseur of Gorgonzola-cheese,
like his fodder with a bit of a kick in it? 1
* * * *
“Loulalo”; Against the clear blue of
a cloudless sky 1 watched the first craft
come sweeping into sight, following the
curve of hills along the river valley. Of
wide wing-spread and heavy fuselage, it
came slipping effortlessly against a slight
side-wind, flying at moderate pace. Sud-
denly a lone fighter hove in sight, followed
by four more, small compared with their
quarry, their flight rapid and more
direct and also very noisy. They attacked
at once, sweeping in from above and
never from the same angle. But the
attack never made a hit. When a collision
would seem inevitable, the target, with an
almost imperceptible tilt of huge wings,
would change course slightly and slip
from under. The attackers seemed care-
ful always to stay above their victim, and
I watched fascinated as it strove for
altitude. Quietly and unseen by me till
it had arrived right above the battle
came a third flier. With silver-blue
fuselage in soft contrast to the gleaming
yellow of a retracted landing-gear, it
swooped to a vantage-point away from
the battle and took up position as a
neutral observer, maintaining this until
the fighters finally decided to abandon
the attack. Then, as the squawking black
crows turned and sped towards the clump
of box-trees, whence they had come,
the silver-blue crane drifted effortlessly
away towards the swamp, while the big
wedge-tailed eagle, unruffled, rose higher
and higher, still the supreme monarch.
* * * ♦
“Curate’s Egg”: The Torres Straits
Islanders’ superstitious belief that shark
attacks are a punishment for moral trans-
gressions (B. 28/1/’53) is instanced by
the ritual of open confession which fre-
quently precedes a mother-of-pearl drift.
The crew, before embarking, squat
in communal circle while each member
declaims aloud the secret sin which is
troubling his soul. As most of the con-
fessed peccadilloes are amorous in char-
acter, it might be expected that strained
relations between crew-members, would
result, but custom rules out repercussions
initiated from knowledge thus gained.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Muskeen”: About 30 years ago there
were two pet “mooruks” from New
Britain (B. 28/1/’53) at Annoburoo
(N.T.). These birds were remarkably
docile and friendly. They would walk
into the kitchen, jump on the table and
generally flummox the Chinese cook.
They were treated with obvious disdain
by a pet jabiru, and, in return, completely
ignored that stately bird. As far as I am
aware, the only crime they ever committed
was to tear the dress of a lubra who
was attempting to dislodge them from
their favorite retreat under the sofa.
Anyway, that was the lubra’s story.
* * * *
“Unga”: That Wiligabung is really a
humorous place-name corrupted to an
apparently aboriginal form (B. 21/l/’53)
is not at all surprising, especially con-
sidering the number of abo. place-names
that have suffered anglicisation. Piccadilly,
in the Adelaide hills, should really be
Pecadidla; the aboriginal para, meaning
river, got muddled into the Adelaide
suburban place-name Paradise, the
Mulachana became the Mulligan; and
Buchan, in Victoria, ik said to have begun
as Buckamunjie. Oddest transformation
of all occurred to Ngnagen, in the Flin-
ders Ranges (S.A.). Somehow the first
syllable was changed to the local abo.
word for water, making it Owienagen.
Next it became Owannagen, and if you
want to find it today you have to ask the
way to Hannigan’s Gap. Some abo.
place-names have an odd ring to them.
Echunga, yet another Southoss place-
name, means “little way off,” from which
I make a guess that the settler who
thought he was being told the name of
the spot was really being informed that
something, perhaps water, was “a little
way off.” All of which makes it seem
that language difficulties such as those
being suffered by New Australians are
not new in this continent. And no N.A.
is likely to make the same mistake as
did an early compiler of abo. vocabu-
laries. He wrote down that Pinde-
mocherta was the word the Adelaide tribe
used for shirt. Pinde was certainly their
word for the white man, but, as they
could not pronounce their sibilants, it
is obvious that the mockerta was merely
an attempt to say “my shirt,” and was
as deserving of a place in an aboriginal
vocabulary as would be fisha-da-chips in
an Italian dictionary.
SCANDAL
The paw-paw colony;
Year by year tempted further into the sky:
(Anyway, what’s up there?)
Nothing at all but hot air.
(Try
Higher.) The blue’s so burning we’ll catch fire.
And, bluer-flashing on the topmost spire,
No bigger than a spark he blazes,
The blue, the frenzied, frantic wren,
Tearing his lungs with vulgar phrases,
Jamming the air with his wild, trite praises
Of himself and a hussy of a hen.
His wife’s sister, we think.
She is too young to know good from evil,
(Eh?)
But she would not like to be less than civil.
She tips her tail
Steeper and steeper,
And that rear line —
But the dress-house copywriters
Have taken all the words
For hemlines, necklines, waistlines;
And tail-line crazy birds
And poets—stuttering, blotting, incompetent
tyros—
Have nothing but bursting lungs and flowing
Biros
To eulogise a few brown feathers
Clinging to half an ounce of saucy poultry
That is up to no good anyway.
But above the arrival of the flying-boat,
Above the tallying in the butter-factory
And the steamer raucously discharging cargo,
His anthem swells.
His feathers gape, as he tells
The baggage this and that.
The paw-paw
Next door
Wears a corrugated-iron hat,
And maybe even
A denture.
God wot.
But by gum, there are no goings-on among the
birds in there!
N.S.W.
JOYCE LEE.
TOWNSHIP
The high street is a long lagoon of light
lying in a canyon under walls
beetle-browed with awnings. Beyond, is space,
glittering air, gold warmth. Circling the place
winds blow unbridled and white sunlight falls.
The town is old. It knew the sound of chains.
Bullock-drays lurched through its narrow streets.
Bearded men with whips rode through to seek
unknown country. The same winds that pass
over their storied trail have settled since
on many a grave grown over with tall grass.
Men have some secret here: greetings fly
curt with cheer and easy friendliness.
Even a stranger may have nod or smile;
and, lifting upward on the air’s caress,
flowering vines flare from the gates meanwhile
like banners. The whole’s caught splendidly,
static, as on a frieze of liberty.
QUEENSLAND,
E. M. ENGLAND.


“Derwent”; A party of Tasmanian
hydroelectric linesmen bagged a 51b.
trout and lost a spaniel dog in a curious
way. During heavy rains they’d gone
out to attend to a transformer on the
side of the flooded section of the Great
Lake road. Spotting the apparently dead
fish in the water, one of the men sent
his dog in after it. Just as it got near, the
dog suddenly gave indications of trouble,
and passed out. After the power had
been cut off the trout was retrieved, and
also the dog—both dead. A short-circuit
in the,earth-wire had caused the killings.
♦ * * *
“Laetitia”; Wheri it comes to seasonal
gift-giving, the simple Torres Straits
Island native leaves no room for doubt.
The proffered article is right at the be-
ginning unmistakably described as either
a “present” or a “proper present,” A
“present” is handed over in. the clear
understanding that recipient will recipro-
cate in cash or kind with something of
adequate worth. Thus a large and meaty
mud-crab as a present calls for a return
present of, say, a small packet of tobacco.
On the other hand the offer, before the
lapse of a decent interval of time, of
anything in return for a gift described as
a “proper present” would be a quite
serious faux pas.
* * * *
“Humus”; Civil engineers must look
with envy at the slender structural
members, struts, stays and anchoring-
cables of Nephila, the golden-web spider.
Another strong web around which the
nature-lover will detour belongs to the
lovely and harmless spiny spider, whose
jewel-like enamelling is a mosaic of black,
white and yellow on a round, slightly-
flattened body set on eight smaller red
legs. Spines, like horns on a mine, pro-
ject from its cephalothorax. More
gregarious is G. minax. A colony I saw
along the Wimmera River (Vic.) had com-
munity webs strung between trees up to
15ft. in depth and 10ft. in Width. «
“Old Bill trained ’em as watchdogs."
“Kelms”: A Perth (W.A.) daily has
told how “the turbulent lifting-power of
willy-willies” was exploited by a glider-
pilot who succeeded in breaking a few
records. I’m not disputing the lifting-
power of a willy-willy, nor its turbulence,
but I’ll defy any glider-pilot to use either
to advantage. A willy-willy is a cyclone.
It’s the greatest atmospheric' disturbance
that can occur on earth, and Australian
willy-willies rank among the world’s
greatest cyclones. To get caught up in
even the fringe of one is a frightening
experience. Willy-willies can, and do,
sink ships. But not all big atmospheric
disturbances can be called willy-willies,
and years ago a nor’-Westralian pearler
coined a word to describe a wind which,
while it could do considerable damage,
didn’t measure up to what was expected
“Don’t panic, woman — it's only a maneater !”
of a willy-willy. He called it a “cock-
eyed-bob.” These cockeyed-bobs can
wreck towns, and they’re responsible for
the quick flooding of north-Westralian
creeks and rivers. No experienced man
would camp near the dry bed of a creek
up north during the cockeye season, and
when the nor’-west air-service started
soon after War I the pilots had to watch
for cockeyes and dodge them. One pilot
who was hours overdue at an airstrip
claimed that a cockeye had chased him
out to sea and then back again. I can’t
see a glider-pilot willingly getting mixed
up with what an airline-pilot tried to avoid.
A whirlwind can lift the roof off a house,
stoop and pick up a dog and carry both
out of sight. It might lift a glider; a
willy-willy or a cockeyed-bob would
wreck the thing,
* He * *
“Swelpme”: Wandering up the Minna-
murra Valley, South Coast (N.S.W.),
enjoying the beauty of the rugged
mountain surroundings, luxurious tree-
ferns and giant Moreton Bay fig-trees and
cedars hung with creepers as thick and
almost as strong as Sin. ropes, I
happened to glance down just as
a waterdragon climbed out of the
clear, running water, 30ft, below, and
“froze” on a flat rock in the stream. So
well he matched the outcrop that my
long-haired cobber could not see him. To
pinpoint the place I tried tossing stones.
My third struck several yards away, and
rolled to within a few inches of the still-
motionless reptile. Having achieved the
object, I threw a heavy gibber that I had
in my hand, my intention being to make
a big splash in the water. The stone
described a graceful arc, then descended
as vertically as a plumb-bob on a string-
straight for the undersized goanna. Not
until the missile was within a yard of
his back did the creature move; then he
was gone in a flash. The stone struck
squarely on the damp silhouette left on
the outcrop. A member of the Abo.
Council has testified to seeing a
lizard adhere to the “freeze line of
defence despite a fearful bashing. I m
not arguing—until someone accuses the
waterdragon of such brainless over-
devotion to a reasonably effective ruse!,
* * * *
“Wilpa”: The abo. readily adapts
himself to the idea of him that appears
in daily newspapers. Boomerangs
are manufactured for ■ commercial
purposes in areas where the boomerang
was never used; an old buck near
Mataranka was heard —much to the
amusement of his one and only spouse —
to describe his horde of daughters and
granddaughters to a mob of tourists as
“some of my wives” ; and now news from
Catfish, 450 miles south of Darwin, makes
it seem that the abos there have been
reading that pet journalistic phrase “war-
like natives.” In a spear-fight there over
a couple of lubras nine abos were
wounded, two of them seriously. This is
a reversal of form from their fully-
tribalised state.' A fight was usually a
very formal affair, and on most occa-.
sions honor was satisfied as soon as one
of the combatants had been either killed
or more than very slightly wounded.
Herbert Basedow once saw a typical
battle at a coastal spot. Sighting what
appeared to be' a fight to the death
between two tribes, he rushed ashore
from his boat with the intention of
attempting pacification, but before he
could reach the battleground one of the
warriors was killed. Fighting immediately
ceased, and former enemies joined in
putting up a hullabaloo of weeping and
mourning around the corpse of the slain
man.
* * * *
“Sheep Nurse”; These theories about
the original jumbuck taking to the hills
to escape wolves and such and having
four stomachs so it could grab a feed
and then “bolt for the hills and safety”
don’t impress me. Because the sheep
came down from the hills every winter
to put in the lean time on the plains,
just when the plains carnivora were at
their hungriest.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Wippegong”: The narrow road
twisted round the shoulder of the ridge,
each sharp inward bend squeezing
between walls of blackberries under which
tumbled little creeks. In the hope of get-
ting a couple of half-grown rabbits, the
mate loaded the .22 and watched from the
other end of the seat. A slightly steeper
dip, and the road straightened for 100yds.
—a long stretch for those parts —and
beside the drooping treeferns at the far
end a grey body moved on the road.
Barry slipped his safety-catch, but I
declutched, switched the engine off and
braked gently, to roll very slowly towards
the shy citizen of the shady gullies.
There was no need to tell the lad not to
shoot; the wonga bobbed steadily
towards us, sometimes at the edge of
the track, sometimes in the middle, and
when ten yards off we stopped rolling.
The slaty grey of his back caught no
light even at that range, the beautifully
mottled undercarriage—perfect camou-
flage if you were looking up at him —was
a joy to behold as he came fossicking
near the front wheels. A slight easing
of the brakes and he scurried to one
side, cocked an eye at the mobile mass,
decided it wasn’t about to attack him,
so stood his ground as we stopped again ;
then on went the erratic ramble over the
rough gravel, in search of heaven-knows-
what. Maybe if we had stayed there for
the night he might have camped under-
neath us or on us or in with us; but
there were many miles to go, so we eased
gently away while he clattered a few
yards to sit in a sapling and watch us go.
We were still a bit short of meat; but
not that short.
“Wog”: Mac had had a wild day in
town, but . when he finally decided to go
home he found his horse and buggy had
been impounded. As he wasn’t keen on
staying in town or paying the pound-fee,
he took some of the boys with him to see
what could be done. The pound-gate was
locked, but the paddock was on the river,
so it was easy to swim the horse round
the fence. The buggy was too heavy to
lift over the fence, and they were tricked
until Mac had his idea. Both wheels were
pulled off and passed over the fence,
fallowed by the body. The whole was
reassembled and Mac drove happily into
the night.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The housemaid at our
Mildura boarding-house was a dark, quiet
girl who said nothing but apparently
thought a lot. Whenever we shared
rooms Mat and I followed a strict rule
of running an imaginary line through the
middle and each keeping his things on his
own side of it, including the dressing-
table. The girl quickly discovered this.
Presently Mat’s half was obviously getting
extra care. From the making of the
bed to the arrangement of the dressing-
table it was easy to see who was aces
with her. Mat eyed these proceedings
thoughtfully, then adopted a plan. We
switched beds for sleeping, each returning
to his own half for shaving, dressing, etc.
Mat felt that somehow he was offsetting
the housemaid’s designs. One Saturday
night we hit the beer and didn’t get home
till morning. We were still in bed when
she pushed the door open to do the room.
For about half a minute she stood there,
gaping, then she pelted her bucket at the
bunk I ought to have been in, flounced
off, and snatched her time. The board-
ing housekeeper alleged that we’d insulted
the girl and invited us to find other
accommodation.
* * * *
To the Pound !
There is —or used to be a
# wise provision in Westralia’s laws that
a man taking stock to the pound was
inviolate; it was safer and cheaper to
attack three or four policemen than to
hinder or molest him or attempt a rescue.
Working on a nor’-west station border-
ing the common, I had many occasions
to bless this ordinance.
Again and again has my convoy been
escorted by blasphemous white teamsters
or wailing and cajoling Afghans—but the
mantle of the law proofed me against
their olths, threats and stratagems.
Once, it appeared that my Waterloo
was imminent. On my way to the pound
with a white man’s whole team, I was met
by the very irate and belligerent owner
who asked “Are you coming back this
way?” There being no other road, I
admitted it. “Then I’m going to wait
here and belt the hide,off you!”
Being skinny and hopeless at fisticuffs,
my stomach did flip-flaps —but I managed
a nonchalant “Are you?” “Any more of
your mob in town today?” he demanded.
“Two,” I said, and thanked God they
were hefty wights who on most occasions
would rather fight than drink beer. “Well,
I’ll belt them when they come past, too! ”
And he dismounted to wSit their arrival.
Greatly depressed, I rode on, cheered
only by the thought that when my mates
had finished I’d have little difficulty in
riding him down and belting him over
the head with a stirrup-iron. Arrived at
the pound, I followed classic example
of the condemned and started on my
lunch —in the midst of which I looked up
to see Nemesis arriving at the canter.
It was too late to flee ; my horse was
50yds. away. I commended my soul to
my Maker, managed somehow to remain
seated and impassive and continued to
munch the most tasteless sandwiches I’ve
ever encountered.
Dismounting, the Avenger strode over.
He laughed. I gulped. He spoke.
“Gawd! A man can be stiff, can’t ’e?
Have a cigarette! ”
And by the time we’d jogged up to
the pub and had three or four pots I
noticed he was only about my weight,
and 1 could have probably cleaned him
up without the stirrup-iron—if he hadn’t
been such a nice little bloke.
MINGARI.
“WORLD WITHOUT END”
Old campfires and old mates,
old horses and old days,
the wind that blew then, blows now.
The wind is new and old
as the red dust in the drab willy
that is and was and ever shall be.
The waterhen that clurked by the creek
cliirks now;
not it, but in
the eternal sound of the eternal round
beneath the everlasting gidyee
by the timeless spinifex:
the dying sheep supine before
the reddened beak of the crow
that ravaged it years ago.;
the hobblechains and pannikins
and dogs and men and horses,
eddying in the willy’s dust,
stinging sweat, brown faces
that follow where they went.
Into the sun and up with dawn
in the maze of dust and things
the old bell rings
that was round Dolly’s neck —
and Dolly dead these forty years!
And all is and was and ever shall be.
QUEENSLAND.
RAY MORTON.


Milking 3 to 10
Cows ?
theDANGAR-GEM
////(
IS STILL THE BEST MILKER
for the man with the smaller herd.
Why envy the owner of a
hiy milhiny machine?
Though you have only a few cows
you can enjoy all the advantages
of machine milking without costly
installation —for the "DANGAR-
GEM" can be used anywhere on
the farm: in the milking shed, in
a bail or even in the paddock.
You owe it to yourself to get details
today from
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Lid.
10-14 Young Street (near Circular Quay),
Sydney. Phone BU 5095
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore,
Wagga and Hay
SMD.IO.
DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN
a ■
mm
V>V*
■am
■ I
m
0*
HE LOOKED
SMART
AND GOT
THE JOB!
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
With that clean, s-m-o-o-t-h, successful look, Bill’s
a credit to his Company. Tour shaves, too, will
look good and feel good with Palmolive the
Shaving Cream that gives 3 men out of every 4 a
better shave. Proof? Here it is. We asked 1,251
men to try It . . , 81% reported “Beards easier to
cut” ... 76% said “Less razor pull” . . . 71% said
"Closer shaves.” ... 80% found “Smoother-feeling
skin.” But you be the judge. Follow the example
of men. Get smoother, more comfortable
shaves jimh Palmolive Lather Shaving Cream.
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
The shaving cream
of successful men
BANKERS' • f EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN • LAW/ERS
pss/iai
Business. Rollery. Etc.
SHARES AND ECONOMIC POINTERS
March is usually an unsteady
month on the Stock Exchanges.
Very often it is full of reverses.
Though 8.H.P., Bank of N. S.
Wales and Tooth shares, among
other market leaders, have
weakened lately the general tone
has remained fairly firm, though
in Sydney, just before the State
election, dealings were not
numerous.
Economic pointers have been
generally encouraging. The com-
parative stability in the basic
wage for six months will help
industry to grapple with its chief
problem—inflating costs. Just
as important in this respect is the
increasing output per man in
many industries, the quicker
Turn-round of ships and the
greater availability of coal and
steel. The wool cheque is much
bigger than for the same period
of last year, though mainly be-
cause of increased offerings and
exports, not so much by reason
of increased prices. And for the
seven months to the end of
January there was a favorable
trade balance of £l7B million,
compared with a deficit of £265
million in .the corresponding
period of the preceding year.
The season has been good
and the wheat harvest above
expectations. Meat is being sold
to Britain under contract at
prices that are satisfactory. This
contract should be a valuable
one in the long run, since there
is a tendency for meat-produc-
tion in other parts of the world
to overtake demand. The U.S.A.
has had a good wheat harvest,
and recently reported a butter
surplus—partly because of the
increasing use of margarine.
In Australia the population
should by the end of this year
approach nine million —at De-
cember, 1951, the figure was
8,538,734, and it is estimated
that during 1952 there was an
increase of 215,000. A million
new people, including the newly-
born, have come to live in Aus-
tralia in just over four years.
Migration is now at a reduced
rate, but the natural increase is
moving up.
The potentialities for invest-
ment in Australia are plainly
very great provided the rough
road to increased and better-
quality production is smoothed
over. We have only started to
reduce costs and increase pro-
duction per man to a reasonable
thing. A great deal depends
upon whether the political situa-
tion in the Commonwealth will
allow this trend to continue.
Until now industry and the
Federal Government have been
fighting a defensive battle against
costs. Soon, if output and effi-
ciency in industry are increased,
an offensive will be in order. A
reduction in costs through in-
creased output will stimulate
demand for many things and at
the same time create capital and
make capital-works a possibility.
There is an enormous unsatis-
fied demand for capital and con-
struction of a capital nature in
the Commonwealth. But in
order to satisfy it some recasting
pf our political economy will be
necessary.
The Welfare State is an im-
pediment to the creation of
capital: it consumes it rather
than creates it. As someone else
has remarked, for some time
Australia has been living on
seed wheat as well as on the
current harvest. The creation of
adequate capital to meet Aus-
tralia’s pressing requirements
will call for revised ideas about
the Welfare State.
Some of the difficulties which
are now being faced by manu-
facturing industries which pre-
viously had a ready market for
their export surplus are seen in
wages statistics. Since the pound
was devalued in relation to the
dollar in 1949 there has been a
leap of 61 p.c. in money wages
and a rise of 52.7 p.c. in the
cost of living. The 40-hour
week has been a major factor in
this rise in costs, but the boom
in wool prices also had its effect.
Whatever the cause, the likely
effect on our ability to compete
with overseas producers is shown
by the fact that costs have in-
creased by only 12} p.c. in the
United States during the same
period, and by 25 p.c. in the
United Kingdom. New Zealand
has managed to keep its rise
down to 27 p.c.
Inflation has been a startling
development in Australia since
1947. Prior to that we could
boast of a level of costs
(in terms of money, anyway)
that gave us a very keen
edge indeed in the post-war
export market, and encouraged
ideas of a return to exchange
parity with sterling.
This inflation in costs is still
the fundamental problem con-
fronting industry. Governments,
the wage-earner, the home-
builder and the investor. Since
1939 wages have increased 208
p.c. in Australia, 131 p.c. in the
United Kingdom and 136 p.c.
in the U.S.A.
If wages are to be maintained
at present levels, then a con-
siderably greater effort in pro-
duction will be needed to justify
them. As it is, Australian
exporters of textiles, canned
foods, chemicals and plastics
are feeling the pinch. A setback
in world raw-material prices
would really put us on the spot
and make all sections of the
community think hard.
Roma Drilling
“Petro”: On January 26
Associated Australian Oilfields,
N.L., reported that its No. 2
test-well, near Roma, Queens-
land, had reached a depth of
3527 ft. The drill was stated to
have penetrated a 4ft. oil-sand
between 3516 ft. and 3520 ft.
On January 29 the co. re-
ported to the Sydney Stock Ex-
change by telegram that oil had
been found at 3551 ft. to 3555 ft.,
but one of the co.’s directors
stated, on the night of January
30, that he believed that the
word “oil” should have read
“oil-sands.”
On test that stratum, produced
small quantities of oil, salt-
water and gas between the
depths of 3547 ft. and 3558 ft.;
coring between 3551 ft. and
3555 ft. suggested better porosity
than in previous sands. A
later report is that “basement
granite” has been struck at
3598 ft., and that the well is now
to be cased and cemented. It is
then proposed to perforate the
casing presumably between
3551 ft. and 3555 ft. —for a pro-
duction test.
In the near-by wells, RBOI
and RBO4, bedrock was struck
or suspected at 3514 ft. and
3660 ft., respectively, and oil-
sands were reported at 3445 ft.,
3503-sft,, 3507-10 ft. and 3497 ft.
to 3508 ft. In the latter well
several streaks of oil-sand were
reported between 3514 ft. and
3545 ft. About 30 barrels of oil
were recovered from RBOI, but
it was claimed that cementing
may have cut off measurable
production in RBO4.
The results obtained in the
present test were therefore cor-
rectly predictable without any
great trouble, and the recent
violent fluctuations in the price
of Associated Oilfields shares
have no real basis. What is
"No deal, sonny.”
equally surprising is that the
Department of National De-
velopment continues to divert
the services of a part of its
geophysical staff from more
important duties to an area
which has already beCn over-
studied and over-drilled.
There has been a weaker
market for shares in Malcolm
Moore Industries, a Melbourne-
controlled engineering concern
interested in constructing
mechanical-handling equipment
and roadmaking plant and in dis-
tributing tractors and diesel
engines. It had a great war-time
and post-war run, and, though
some tailing-off in activity is now
likely, long-term prospects
should be good. Last term the
co. disclosed 43 p.c. on capital
and paid 20 p.c. An interim div.
is due in March. The fully-paid
ords. have been selling at
445., the lOs.-paids at 225. 6d.
The scrip is listed in Sydney as
well as in Melbourne.
Associated Pulp rights at
2s. 3d. (representing 225. 3d.
fully paid) indicate a yield of
£6 ss. per cent, when the scrip is
paid up (provided the div. stays
at 7 p.c.). Last year’s profit was
12 p.c. on capital, which has
increased quickly since war
ended. There is much greater
competition In the paper trade
nowadays, but the co. has built
its finances carefully, even
though it has been under tight
price-control for most of its
manufacturing life.
* * *
Rights to Newbold General
Refractories’ new issue came on
in Sydney at 7s. 9d. last week,
representing a fully-paid price
of 275. 9d. The old shares, ex
rights, were nominally quoted at
28s. 9d., returning £5 1 Is. per
cent, on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
The new scrip, when fully paid,
would return £5 15s. per cent.
The co. is reported to be doing
very well in present compara-
tively slack conditions.


“I am a Manufacturer’s Agent
My business requires the greatest speed and
accuracy in all my financial dealings. That’s why
I use the very efficient services available to me
as a customer of A.N.Z. Bank,"
W
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia The Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
Established 1835 Established 1837
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji and in London
AGENTS IN ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD
ANZ, 13. 1943
-zasssS/
m
m
A Vacuum
is lighter than air
BRESCIA 1670
■■f , 1
REAT INTEREST has been aroused by the publication
of a scientific treatise by the Jesuit Fancesco de Lana.
The author, well known for experiments on determining
the weight of air, speculates on the use of aircraft for
transport and military purposes. He describes his con-
ception of an aerial ship, supported by four evacuated globes
and propelled by sails or oars.
“The principle,” affirms de Lana, “is sound enough. The
ship is bound to rise from the ground. And what other
means of propulsion is practicable? As soon as you invent a
machine you need proper fuelling arrangements, and so far no
one has even thought of the BP Aviation Service. But I
expect they will; and a very good fuelling service it will
be, as everyone will know.”
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD., All States.
A wholly owned subsidiary of Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
It was expected that Mr. John
Parker’s Sunday Observance
Bill would suffer defeat.
Previous attempts to put the
English Sunday into truer
perspective have met with the
same rebuff. And it is probable
that M.P.s (enjoying, no doubt,
the novelty of a certain vicarious
righteousness) have reflected the
feelings of their constituents in
seeking to preserve a quieter
tempo on Sundays, quite apart
from considerations of public
worship.
The real conflict, according to
Mr. Parker, “was,..,between
those who believed in the British
weekend as it had developed
and the Australian weekend, in
which Saturday had been turned
into another Sabbath.” People
would not only do what they
chose (as, in fact, they do now,
although in unashamed defiance
of the law), but would also have
Saturday’s choice of organised
sport and theatrical entertain-
ment. The change was not
accepted, and much is to be said
on both sides.
But the House fell a long way
behind public opinion in reject-
ing, although narrowly, the
sensible amendment aimed at
revoking the chaotic farrago of
archaic Sabbatarian legislation
which turns good citizens into
lawbreakers. A hypothetical
instance: A.B. is a sedentary
worker who likes his weekend
sport. He may not, according
to law, travel more than five
miles, nor play cricket with men
from outside his parish, but he is
not debarred from playing golf
or going to the ciriema. He
cannot be punished for playing
cricket, but he can for playing
billiards. And if, in the evening,
he entertains his fellows with a
comic turn he commits an
offence if he carries a bat or
wears cricketer’s “costume” —
but not if he wears his normal
clothes and makes no sign or
gesture!
These, and other, absurdities
would be non-existent if it were
not for the energetic researches
of the Lord’s Day Observance
Society, against whose activities
Mr. Parker’s bill was partly
directed. This society, which
can hardly be said always
to apply Christian tolerance and
understanding to its proceedings,
is manifestly successful in pre-
venting such unworthy viola-
tions of the Sabbath as a public
gathering of apiarists with their
hives. It also tried, without
success, to ban Sunday tele-
vision. People are coming to
resent strongly the efforts of a
handful of bigots to circum-
scribe their habits.
The common informer was
silenced in 1951, and it can only
be a matter of time before the
Sunday laws are revised, parti-
cularly as the Council of British
Churches and the Methodist
Department of thristian Citizen-
ship have expressed their
support.
Aunt Sally T.U.C.
The rumpus inside the Labor
party is bigger and wider than
ever. All was apparently quiet
and peaceful. Mr. Bevan, once
again in the Labor “shadow
Cabinet,” was on his best
behavior. Misgivings and disap-
pointments between the party
executive and the T.U.C, were
recognised and glossed over.
Relations between the various
factions were polite and con-
ciliatory. Then, with their
leader holding himself aloof, the
Bevanite spokesmen stepped
into the stuffy atmosphere of the
parlor and ostentatiously spat at
the influential occupant of the
best chair.
It is as crude as that. A
change in shock tactics singles
out the “big four” in the general
council of the T.U.C. as a target
for abuse. The uneasy truce,
for the sake of solidarity, be-
tween political personalities of
the same color, although not the
same shade, presumably does
not extend to the industrial wing.
Nor, in the strict letter of fact,
is Mr. Bevan himself party to
it. The attack was launched on
the front-page of the “Tribune,”
which has on its editorial board
Miss Jennie Lee (Mrs. Bevan)
and three of his lieutenants,
“Tribune” assailed Mr. Lincoln
Evans —one of the T.U.C. “big
four” —for having accepted a
knighthood. Not only does this
acceptance ill-become a worker,
but it also derives from a Tory
Government pledged to de-
nationalise the iron-and-steel
industry. And Mr. Evans is
general-secretary of the Iron
an.d Steel Trades Confederation.
Mr. Evans stands well to the
Right of the party. He is an
outspoken man who has done
more than any other trade-union
official to bring home the hard
facts of life to the rank-and-
file members. These home-
truths conflict violently with the
type of doctrinaire Socialism
advocated by the Bevanites,
Hence Leftist assertions that the
trade-union leaders are falling
for the wiles of the Tories and
being seduced away from the
workers.
The T.U.C. has made plain
that its duty lies towards its
8,000,000 members and that,
while it would prefer a Labor
Government, it will act properly
and constitutionally under the
alternative. This attitude
offends the extremists, who
believe that the T.U.C.’s influ-
ence and tremendous wealth
should be employed in ousting
the Tories, if need be by
industrial action.
The motive behind the
Bevanites’ action is clear enough.
They are less interested in Mr.
Evans receiving the accolade
than in alienating the workers
from the remote union-leaders
and drawing them into their own
camp. And their hand is con-
siderably strengthened by the
fact that the T.U.C. is embar-
rassed by a resolution, passed at
the last congress, which calls
for an extension of nationalisa-
tion.
/
Venice at the Vic.
The Old Vic.’s bumper season
continues with an explosive
“Merchant of Venice.” That
may be putting it rather
strongly, but the sforzando
attack of the players, especially
when opposed to the louder
passages of Christopher
Whelen’s music, is sometimes
positively detonating. In fact,
that overworked adjective
“Elizabethan” aptly connotes
the terrific physical and intel-
lectual energy of the present
team.
The administrators’ policy,
too, is no less firm. The Vic.
plainly means to serve its wide
public. According to letters
received “The Merchant” is
second-favorite, running very
close to “Julius Caesar,” which
is to be the next production.
It may be that Shylock,
Portia, the Pound of Flesh and
the Fantastic Suitors have
touched the adolescent imagina-
tion and are indelible, for
nothing like the same enthusiasm
for the play is found among
actors and critics. The sup-
porting parts are colorless, the
plot teems with contrivance, and
the play is, to modern audi-
ences, an odd kind of romance.
Very bravely, the Vic. players
make light of these difficulties
and come near to the unattain-
able. If they just fail to reach
artistic unity the fault lies not
in themselves but rather in the
author’s slapdash profusion.
The affair of the caskets touches
portentous banality. And was
there ever such a pious sponger
and fortune-hunter as Bassanio?
After the grisly knockabout
in the courtroom there is the
tedious business of the rings
Was ever an anticlimax more
outrageous? And is not Portia’s
private postal-service, which
proves of such belated advantage
to the much-battered Antonio,
carrying the deus ex machina
altogether too far?
But if these creaking devices
fail others succeed. The most
compelling scene in the produc-
tion is in the Belmont garden,
where Lorenzo and Jessica are
waiting for the victors’ return.
It is the invocation to music
(spoken with exquisite tender-
ness by Richard Gale and
Claire Bloom), and has no
vestige of direct bearing upon
the play.
Irene Worth’s Portia is no
pale echo of tradition but a
woman of the world who has
the glossy assurance of a pro-
fessional hostess. Her doctor is
confident, manly and, indeed, so
in contrast to Portia’s sleek
urbanity as to deceive her
intimates. As Shylock, Paul
Rogers is grimly realistic, adopt-
ing a guttural accent and the
mannerisms of the immigrant
Jew. Here is a psychopath,
obseissed with the taunts land
insults of his persecutors,
of whom Antonio is the
embodiment. And, in truth,
the Jew so little begs sympathy
that it showers upon him, as if
drained anway from the more
deserving Antonio.
If that, perhaps, was not what
Shakspdare intended, at least
he could hardly be expected to
foretell the reactions of Bank-
side audiences some 350 years
later.


f
DEATH iIVCSTMCMT Iw-J TAIA r I 0
BEAI ESTATI STOCK A SIATIOO >
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
UT7B
Your Estate will he Safer
in these Skilled Hands
A COMPETENT Board of Directors and a
group of specialists with many years of
accumulated experience in every phase of Estate
administration and control are permanently “at
your service” when you appoint The Union
Trustee as Executor or Trustee.
Thus your Estate is safeguarded by the expert
knowledge, not ot one man, but of experienced
Directors and skilled officers. The Company may
be appointed either solely or, if you wish, jointly
with a relative or friend. Charges are moderate
and services available are most comprehensive.
Call, phone or write for your copy of “Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
The UNION TRUSTEE
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St.,
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
~ (Established 1835)
Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian General Insurance
n o i . . To Re ' Re '
uec.. Surplus. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1943.. 15,965 10 p.c. = 7000 1
Staff fund, £2OOO .. ..j 6 ’ 965 115,508
1944.. 14,900 10 p.c.= 7000 { Qnft , 99
Staff fund, £lOOO .. ..| 6,900 122,408
1945.. 17,556 10 p.c. = 7000 1 Q 151 ofi .
Staff fund, £lOOO .. .. f 9,556 131,964
17,241 10 p.c. = 7000 1 g oil 141 205
Staff fund, £lOOO .. .. f 9, 41 141,205
1947.. 31,231 10 p.c. ~ 7000 ( 9 q 9 gi ici toa
Staff fund, £lOOO .. .. \ 23,261 164,436
1948.. 33,047 12 p.c. = 8400 1 23,647 188,083
Staff fund, £lOOO ..
From tax reserve, £BOOO .. .. 196,083
1949.. 36,444 12J p.c. = 11,750 24,694 220,777
1950.. 42,792 12| „ ~12,500 30,292 251,069
1951.. 58,237 12J „ ~12.500 45,737 296,806
1952.. 55,066 12J „ ~12,500 42,566 339.372
* Includes reserve for unexpired risks, £164,000 at
31/12/’52.
The policy in respect of dividends has
been to keep the annual distribution at
or about the level of the net return from
investments, a practice long followed by
leading British and other offices. It leaves
the underwriting surplus, or most of it,
available to swell reserves, and therefore
investments and the returns therefrom,
thus ensuring a high overall net return
in relation to capital alone, and, at
intervals, increases in the amount distri-
buted as divs. as well as other benefits.
By confining its underwriting. activities
to the Commonwealth, this 39-year-old
fire, marine and accident office hasn’t
missed much. Over the last five years
net premium income has nearly trebled,
the loss experience has been moderate,
a tight hold has been kept upon controll-
able exes., and surplus earnings have
shown marked improvement. Also the
div. was lifted from 10 p.c. in 1947 to
12 p.c. and then to 12£ p.c. in 1949 and
has remained steady since. And those
on the register welcomed a call for an
extra 3s. a share (£30,000), making the
200,000 issued £1 shares paid to 10s. each.
At the moment there is nothing to suggest
that shareholders are likely to be asked
for more or the dividend raised at an
early date.
Continued expansion remains the key-
note of the latest accounts. Gross
premium income (£s9B,6o6>stepped up by
£101,189 and reinsurances (£189,276) were
£41,163 heavier, leaving the gain in net
premiums at £60,026. And the overall
underwriting experience was a satis-
factory one, despite the unprofitable
nature of motor-vehicle and third-party
risks, owing to the mounting tide of road
accidents, heavy damages awarded by
juries for personal injuries, and rising
cost of repairs:
Loss Exes.
Net Ratio, Ratio,
Dec., Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1939.. £98,988 £47,910 £44,309 48.4 44.7
1946.. 113,409 57,809 46,168 50.9 40.7
1948.. 169,310 78,056 66,781 46.0 39.4
1949.. 198,774 87,077 85,485 43.8 43.0
1950.. 236,870 110,394 95,292 46.6 40.2
1951.. 349,304 7 269 137,823 47.0 39.4
1952 . 409,330 2 194 164,413 49.4 40.1
Claims ran away ith an extra £2 Bs. p.c.
id exes, with a: additional 14s. p.c. of
the net premiums. The current year’s
>ll benefit from recent lifts in
premium rates for motor-vehicle and
third-party risks.
The gross underwriting surplus was
£42,523 (down £4689), of which £24,000
(down £6000) was added to the reserve
for unexpired risks, making it £164,000,
or a shade over 40 p.c. of the year’s net
premium income, which is usually con-
sidered adequate for the purpose. The net
underwriting surplus was thus £18,523
(up £1311), or 18.5 p.c. on capital, and
the net return from investments was
£12,543 (up £1518), or 12.5 p.c, on
capital. The total amount available for
distribution was thus £31,066 (up £2829),
or 31 p.c. on capital as against 28.2 p.c.
and 27.8 p.c. for the two preceding years.
Both policyholders and shareholders
are well protected:
1949. 1950. 1951.- 1952.
Paid capital.. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £100,000£100,000
Liabilities .. 104,346 122,248 157,012 169,856
Tax reserve .. 13,500 29,000 27,000 25,750
Final div. . . 5,000 7,500 6,250 6,250
Freeholds .. 2,500 2,500 28,379 28,379
Mortgages . . 46,817 45,318 24,780 23,348
Debentures .. 6,000 39,500* 35,750* 30,284
Shares other cos. 25,475 52,466 108,503 122,656
Govt, securities 276,681 318,073 325,251 367,989
Book debts . . 23,354 34,170 39,615 43,436
Cash, etc. . . 65,295 17,789 24,790 25,136
* Includes fixed deposits.
Over 57 p.c. of total assets are represented
by Government securities (up £42,738).
This and the year’s net addition of
£14,153 to shareholdings augur well for
the return from investments.
After sales at 325. 6d. (48s. a year ago)
sellers recently asked 355. for the £1
shares paid to 10s. each. Since the return
at 325. 6d. is only 3.8 p.c. on a 12| p.c.
div. basis, the investor at that figure is
obviously prepared to wait for his
benefits. To get 4.6 p.c. on his money
he looks for a 15 p.c. distribution, or,
say, a request for another ss. a share and
a 10 p.c. div. Net tangible cover is
435. lid.
Malleys, Ltd. (Sydney)
f Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
April, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1941.. 18,098 2100 7 p.c. = 14,000 1,998 30,116
1942.. 22,502 2100 7 „ ~ 14,000 6,402 36,518
1943.. 21.873 2100 7 ~ 14,000 5,773 42,291
8 p.c.
1944.. 30.069 2400 8 „ „ 16,000 11,669 68,960
1945.. 28,449 2400 8 „ ~16,000 10,049 64,000
1946.. 33.365 2400 8 „ „ 16,000 14,965"’ 78,974
9 p.c.
1947.. 36,755 2700 10 „ ~25,988 8,072 87,046
Prom tax reserve, £9433 .. .. 96,479
1948. -50,626 2700 10 p.c. = 30,000 17,926 114,405
To inner reserves, £5OOO .. .. 109,405
Share premiums, £112,500 .. .. 221,905
1949.. 49,060 2700 10 p.c. = 32,875 13,485 235,390
1950.. 67.800.2700 10 „ „ 42,500 22,600 257,990
Unexplained addition, £439 .. .. 258,429
Revaluation of properties, £129,880.. 388,309
1951.. 80,565 2700 10 p.c. = 42,500 35,365 423,674
Reserves capitalised, £212,382 .. 211,292
Net share premiums, £7600 .. ~ 218,892
Surplus sale assets, £44,055 .. .. 262,947
June,
1952.. 88,237 2,441 8 p.c. = 61,863 33,933 296,880
* After deducting intangibles, £22,682 at 30/6/’52.
The 14 months covered by the latest
accounts of this 33-year-old manufac-
turer of builders’ and plumbers’ hard-
ware, dairy utensils, kitchenware, etc.,
was an eventful period. Outstanding
features were (1) an issue of bonus-
scrip, (2) withdrawal from the retail field,
(3) purchase of A. Joyce and Co. Pty.
(Melbourne), manufacturers of dairy
equipment, etc,, and (4) acquisition of
the small Sydney manufacturing business
of National Water Heaters Pty., which
turns out bath- and other water-heaters.
fhe one-for-two bonus scrip-issue
called for £212,382, of which £84,500
came from share-premium reserve (now
£35,600) and £127,882 from a capital
assets reserve (now £1998) created by
writing up the book-value of freeholds.
Withdrawal from the retail field—ex-
perience generally has shown that large-
scale manufacture and retailing are not
always a harmonious combination —in-
volved closure of three selling branches in
and around Sydney and one in Brisbane,
as well as sale of the freeholds concerned.
They fetched £44,055 more than their
written-up book-value.
At June 30 last shares in subsidiaries
figured at £177,936, of which £80,709 was
still due to the vendors. Consideration
for the National Water Heaters business
Was 5846 f.-p. £1 ords. issued in July at
a premium of £3654, of which £1223 was
to be used to rub out intangibles, leaving
£2431 to add to reserves. So shares in
the Joyce co. stood in Malley’s books at
£168,436, of which £71,209 remained to
be paid in cash. The other £97,227 was
met £20,007 in cash and £77,220 by the
issue of 69,626 f.-p. £1 ords. at a premium
of £7600 net, after writing off the vendor
go ’s intangibles. Actual price paid for
the Joyce business isn’t mentioned.
Both subsidiaries operated at a profit,
of which no account was taken in the
parent’s books. After allowing £12,695
(down £4989) for depreciation and some-
thing for taxation, the parent’s net earn-
ings for the term were £88,237. On an
annual basis the figure would be £75,632
(down £4933), or 10.2 p.c. on the enlarged
capital (pref. and ord. combined), com-
pared with 17.7, 14.9 13.6 p.c. for
the three preceding years. A couple of
points were chipped off the ord. div.,
reducing it to 8 p.c., which is equal to
10.3 p.c. p.a. after allowing for the
bonus-issue.
Under the long-outmoded and now-
inequitable N.S.W. Interest Reduction
Act, the div. on £30,000 of 9 p.c. pref.
capital was automatically lowered to
approximately 8 p.c., which was at the
rate of 7 jkc. for a twelvemonth period.
Since this Act is now having the reverse
effect to that originally intended,
namely, to bring about some equality of
sacrifice, the plain duty of the Govern-
ment is to remove it from the Statute
Book. It is cold comfort to holders of
the prefs. to know that the co.’s articles
were recently amended to permit volun-
tary conversion of pref. into ord. shares
should such an offer be made.
Movements in balance-sheet figures
chiefly reflect the issue of bonus-scrip, the
purchases and other matters already re-
ferred to:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital.. £435,470 £455,000 £455,000 £737,008
Mortgages 50,000 50,000
Overdraft . . 58,279 188,348 188,366 229,549
Creditors, etc.* 94,597 150,728 225,545 258.476
Final divs. . . 34,529 44,154 44,154 52,211
Freeholds . . 191,167 203,123 343,371 308,424
Plant, etc. . . 126,367 151,771 184,931 235,152
Shareholdings 3,000 3,000 177,936
Stocks . . 342,425 444,446 473,193 652,804
Book debts .. 194,478 293,004 384,782 244,566
Cash, etc. . . 828 877 462 5,238
Goodwill, etc. 22,682 22,682 22,682 22,682
* Includes provision for taxation.
Stocks \up £179,611) appear at or under
cost. Excluding shareholdings, there was
a contraction of £38,000 in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£312,372).
Last term’s additions to the business,
the recent revival of activity in the build-
ing trade and steadier trend in costs augur
well for the current term’s net earnings.
The price of the f.-p. £1 ords., which
fluctuated between 375. and 245. during
1952, stood at 255. 6d. last week, giving
a return of 6.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. The prefs. seldom appear on
’Change. When the books closed net
tangible cover was £33 6s. 7d. prefs. and
275. sd, ords.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
/-—Dividends—^
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. 12$ p.c. serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1947.. 78,620 36,000 10,066 32,554 310,944
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 300,944
1948.. 74,736 36,000 10,066 28,670 329,614
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 319,614
1949.. 76,531 36,000 10,066 30,465 350,079
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 340,079
Asset revaluation, £lOO,OOO .. .. 440,079
Reserves capitalised, £80,527 .. 359,552
6i p.c.
1950.. 78,682 36,000 10,066 32,616 392,168
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 382,168
9 & 5 p.c. 6i p.c.
1951.. 89,494 53,500 10,066 25,928 408,096
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 398,096
9& 5 p.c. 3 i p.c.
1952.. 78,537 53,500 15,236 9,801 407,897
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 402,897
* Excluding depreciation reserves, now £417,348.
The 1952 profit benefited by £50,000
set aside in the previous term against
possible loss on sales of industrial yarns,
etc.; so the contraction in net earnings
was more pronounced than the figures
in the table suggest. Nevertheless, the
co. weathered the storm —it hit local
spinning and knitting mills harder than
most other traders —very well. So, tech-
nically and otherwise, the co. was in a
position to take prompt advantage of the
improvement in trading conditions which
began to show up during the second
quarter of the current term.
That the management was alive to im-
pending developments, and the action
taken to meet them, is made clear in
following statement by the chairman:
We had commenced to curtail produc-
tion and reduce stocks well before the fall
in wool values took place. As a result
we were in a sound position when the time
came, and at the opening of the 1951-52
wool-selling season we had very little more
raw wool than was required to tide us
over until we received delivery of the new
season s purchases. We were not forced
to sacrifice stocks or reduce our standard
of quality, and we were able to sell at our
listed prices throughout the year. During
the last quarter of the term sales fell to
the lowest level for many years, and the
inevitable curtailment of output resulted in
’ considerable reduction in our labor force.
The main spinning and knitting mills at
Coburg (Vic.) have been kept abreast of
modern developments, the trend being
toward automatic operation with in-
creased mechanical efficiency and easier
control and maintenance. There are also
five branch factories, which were set up
to help ease the labor bottleneck during
the post-war boom.
There was a sharp drop in turnover, of
course. The slip in gross earnings
(£357,606) was £93,996. The reduction
in exes. (£279,069) was £83,039, of which
£51,500 was ip respect of taxation
(£53,000) and £4757 depreciation (£44,055)
allowances. Declared net result was thus
£10,957 lighter at £78,537, which was
enough to pay the pref. divs. (together
£53,500) and show 5.1 p.c. on the
£487,548 of ord. capital as against
22.3 p.c. and 26.5 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding years. The div., lowered from
12j p.c. to 6| p.c. following the one-for-
one bonus share-issue of February, 1950,
was dropped to 3} p.c., equal to 6i p.c.
after allowing for the gift, which restored
only one-quarter of the capital jettisoned
in 1925. After sending £5OOO to the
staff fund, free reserves stood at £402,897.
Stocks /(in at not more than cost,
market- or replacement-value) were re-
duced by £203,637 and book-debts by
£121,306. The money, together with
£384,807 from the large cash holding
(proceeds of a new share-issue at par just
before the close of accounts in 1951),
was used mainly to slash £717,031 off the
outside debt, etc.;
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £561,054 £1,229,615 £1,237,548
Depreciation reserve 325,082 373,292 417,348
Liabilities* . . 1,427,080 1,520,896 803,865
Final divs. . .. 30,066 38,816 43,986
Freeholds .. .. 183,740 197,815 201,025
Plant . . . . 646,284 681,070 732,369
Stocks .. .. 1,491,728 1,792,294 1,588,657
Book debts .. 344,753 431,110 309,804
Cash . . ~ 28,879 419,610 29,803
* Includes tax reserve, divs. payable and contributions
to staff fund, etc.
The more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,080,413) was only £2889 lighter,
despite a net addition of £54,509 to fixed
assets.
The outlook favors a better showing at
next balance. The strengthening of raw
wool prices has removed the threat to
stocks from that quarter, demand has
improved, control of selling-prices has
been lifted and the costs curve has
flattened. Still, competition promises to
become progressively keener.
At 7s, 3d. (7s. 9d. a year ago) the f.-p.
Bs. ords. would return 6.9 p.c. on a6 \ p.c.
div. basis. The 9 p.c. prefs. at 255. yield
7.2 p.c. The £350,000 of 5 percents, held
by Colonial Mutual Life, are not listed.
They are redeemable at the rate of
£25,000 p.a. from June 30, 1953. Net
tangible cover is 9 percents £3 4s. 6d. and
ords. 14s. 7d.
Queensland Meat Export Co.
To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
& £ £ £
1945.. 23,471 5 p;C. = 24,562 49,373
1946.. 10,788 2 „ „ 9,824 964 50,337
1947.. 30,815 6 „ „ 29,474 1,341 51,678
1948.. 39,118 7 „ „ 34,386 4,732 56,410
1949.. 39,822 7 „ „ 34,386 5,436 61,846
1950.. 36,806 7 „ ~34,386 2,420 64,266
Losb>
1951.. 37,416 Nil -- 26,850
From inner reserves, £37,416 .. 64,266
Profit.
1952.. 40,526 7 p.c. = 34,386 6,140 70,406
* After deducting intangibles, £lOOO.
This co. is in the local and export
meat trade, and has been since 1915.
Of recent years a lot of money has been
spent on additions and improvements,
especially at Ross River, where a new
freezing-block came into operation in
1950. A small subsidiary looks after


of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
th e well known
“JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x ins.,
61 x 3g and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
m
rrr.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan [%
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304 - 306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut
Special Latakia Pipe Mixture
in 2oz. packets at 28 /6 per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31 /6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under 11b.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland. N
. .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
rhe neo-barrere
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
barrerb distribution CO.
(Dept. 3k). 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
fds
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Public Notice
I, VERA MUND, of Austrian nationality,
bom at Vienna, Austria, resident five years
in Australia, now residing at 88a Hay
Street, Leichhardt, N.S.W., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Position Vacant
DIAMOND DRILLER with comprehensive
experience all classes of diamond drilling.
Must be capable of training other men
as drillers and dealing with any type of
efficient job that may arise. Must be able
to prepare clear and concise reports.
Apply by letter stating age, details of ex-
perience and availability to Q’land Con-
tractors Pty. Ltd., 447 Gregory Terrace,
Brisbane.
Missing Friend
JAMES CLEALOCR ROGER WARRING-
TON, formerly of 13 College Street, Syd-
ney, in the State of New South Wales, or
any person knowing his present where-
abouts, please communicate with MESSRS.
ABBOTT STILLMAN & WILSON, Soli-
citors, 422 Little Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Is Divorce.
TO RONALD SYDNEY SMEDLEY form-
erly of Repatriation Hospital Concord
in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that JOAN WINIFRED SMED-
LEY has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1277 of 1952 oft the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Ist of May 1953
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. J. I 0. HARRIS
& CO., Solicitors, of 39-49 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
'IN THE SUPREME ■ COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROY CYRIL GRAHAM formerly of
13 Baker Street Guildford in the State of
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
NANCY MAUREEN GRAHAM has filed
a Petition lor Divorce No. 2597 of 1952
on The ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 17th of April 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. J. 0. HARRIS &
00 , Solicitors, of 39-49 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
Pardon me if I talk about food. It’s the most
important thing an Australian could be talking about
just now.
You know, there are different ways of looking
at food. One is through the eyes of an epicure, who
is able to choose with discrimination what he will eat,
and can consult the wine list as he savours it. Another
is through the eyes of the millions in the world to
whom sustenance is a handful of rice.
See what I mean? The pressures and inequities
in the world today, and the crisis it threatens in human
living.
Here in the midst of it stands Australia. We are
well fed. We hold one of the few large remaining
areas of the earth where more food can be produced
in abundance.
You understand the position. Generally our
primary production is increasing except where it is
set back by adverse seasons. It is not increasing fast
enough to keep pace with our rising population.
The population of Australia has gone up 23 per
cent, since 1939. That’s a sudden rise—nearly five now
for every four there were at the outbreak of war. Not
only are there more people, but we are consuming
on an average more food per head than we were 14
years ago.
The threefold “must” for Australia has been
stated by our leaders time and time again, but I
mention them here for the record.
We have to produce enough to feed our own
growing population ; build up exports to pay our way
in the world and to preserve the living standards we
have so carefully built up for ourselves; and, over
and a’bove that, help to provide for hordes of humanity
who now go underfed.
Now, I say that this tremendous, but not
impossible, task holds more interest for Queenslanders
than for any other Australians. Why? Because
Queensland, the Northern Territory and New Guinea
hold the key to most of it.
Do you realise that Queensland possesses almost
half the pastoral lands of Australia that are classed
as good, and less than one-tenth of the 27 per cent,
classed as fair to poor? In its pastoral lands it has
the answer to half the national need in beef.
It has the complete answer in sugar.
In an agricultural survey Queensland was found
to have 40 per cent, of the land of Australia that could
be classed as standard farmland. So it has also a large
part of the answer in dairy produce and grains, the
other foods on which Australia has to concentrate for
prosperous survival.
It is easy to be statistical in talking of these things.
And statistics are dry. Let me try to construe the
situation for you in two straight and simple sentences,
to which I hope you will lend your thought.
0 Australia has to boost its food production, and do
it smartly. .
0 In the producing, Queensland will lead the way.
HEM Ml
Bamboo Slide Rules
available in both conventional
Mannheim and Duplex types, com-
bined with. Engine Divided Scales ot
the utmost precision and accuracy.
E. ESDAILE & SONS!™
42 Hunter St., Sydney. BW 8631.
HEMMI Slide Rules
are constructed from
laminated bamboo in
both stock and slide.
The wide range avail-
able ensures the selec-
tion of a rule for
every application.
the canmaking section of the
business, and the parent holds a
substantial interest in the Singa-
pore Cold Storage Co., which
operates at Singapore.
Shareholders have never had
much out of the business. For
the first five years divs. averaged
5.8 p.c., and for the next 11
years losses exceeded profit, and
two divs. totalling 9 p.c. were
paid. The turning-point came
in 1932, and 2\ p.c. was paid for
the four years to 1935, followed
by regular annual distributions
averaging 6 p.c. for the 15 years
to 1950, then nil and 7 p.c. last
term. Meanwhile (in 1933) ss.
of each £1 share was returned in
cash.
The board is tight-lipped
about output, sales and buying-
and selling-prices, and the p. and
1. account tells little more than
it has to. The export surplus,
or all but a small fraction of it,
is taken by U.K. under an agree-
ment which runs until 1967,
subject to periodical review and
to price adjustments, based
mainly upon movements in pro-
duction costs. In the home
market, to which the manage-
ment has given a lot of attention
lately, selling-prices are con-
trolled, too. Hence the board’s
recurrent complaint that “too
many controls still hamper the
industry.”
The loss in 1951 —first thing of
its for 20 years—was due
mainly to rapidly-rising costs,
sluggish increase in selling-
prices, and adverse seasonal con-
ditions, which affected the
number and quality of beasts
slaughtered. The operating loss
was £61,817, which was reduced
to a net loss of £37,416 by
dividends received (£24,401).
Last term seasonal conditions
were mostly dry in the north and
moderately good in the centre
and south of the State. Govern-
ment statistics show smaller
slaughterings and exports of
beef, and a bit better outturn
of canned meats. Prices for live-
stock rose, and so did prices paid
by the Government for export.
Here are the figures for first-
quality hinds in Australian
currency:—■
3/10/M9. . 10.08 d. | 8/10/’51.. 15.31 d.
30/l/’5O . . 10.09 d. 19/5/’52 .. 16.56 d.
23/4/’5l .. 11.48 d. | 3/11/’52.. 18.37 d.
As , the year advanced costs
pressed less heavily, more ship-
ping became available and stocks
were reduced.
Of the £40,526 of profit
claimed, £23,246 came from the
meatwofks and £17,280 (down
£7121) from dividends, the lot
being a moderate 8.2 p.c, on
capital.
To carry a further £115,843
of stores and book-debts, add
£68,245 to fixed assets and clip
£66,799 off the trade debt, etc.,
the co. went to its bankers for
an extra £161,637 and reduced
stocks by £48,724:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital £491,232 £491,232 £491,232
Overdraft .. 320,571 258,883 420,520
Creditors, etc.* 383,691 716,489 649,690
Final div. .. 34,386 34,386
Fixed assets,
etc. .. 696,412 743,835 812,080
Shares subsid. 50,000 75,000 75,000
Stock .. 333,749 509,088 460,364
Stores .. 99,693 99,265 141,683
Debtors .. 64,292 103,682 177,107
* Includes provision for taxation and
staff fund.
When the books closed the out-
side deot, etc., exceeded more-
or-less liquids (excluding shares
in a subsidiary) by £325,442, up
£62,105.
Better seasonal prospects, and
other things, favor an improved
showing at next balance. The
f.-p, 15s. shares, which dropped
to Bs. 6d. in the market during
1952, recently fetched 125., giv-
ing a return of 8.7 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover (book-value) is 17s. Id.
New Guinea Goldfields, Ltd.
This venture has been a dis-
appointment to shareholders.
The co. operates on the Edie
Creek field, New Guinea, where
its three main interests now com-
prise mining and milling at
Golden Ridges, logging and saw-
milling, and a 90 p.c. interest
in the Koranga alluvials. It has
£950,371 of capital to feed in
4,472,332 f.-p. 4s. 3d. shares,
which the market prices at
Is. each.
Operations for the 12 months
to Sept. 30 last resulted in a
profit of £43,542 (down £428),
of which £24,324 came from
mining at Golden Ridges and
Koranga, etc., £18,305 from
timber and £1913 from sundry
receipts. But tax arrears
(£13,157) and loss on sale of
investments (£937) called for
£14,094, leaving the net result at
£29,448.
At Upper Ridges the mill
handled 28,072 tons of 0.470 z.
puggy ore for 68650 z. gold and
51380 z. silver by amalgamation.
That was only a 50.9 p.c.
recovery, thus leaving 0.230 z. in
the residues. The cyaniding-
plant, scheduled to start up in
March, 1953, is expected to lift
mill earnings by about £6500 a
month. Profit earned last term
was £9058.
At Koranga 1,410,000c.y. (up
561,729c.y.) were sluiced for a
profit of £11,990. At Sept. 30
reserves were put at 4,863,000c.y.,
worth on the average 14.5 d,
a yard with gold at its present
statutory price. But mudstone
has appeared in the working
face, costs at the moment exceed
average value of the dirt, and
operations are expected to be
unprofitable for the first half of
1953.
The sawmill produced
1,820,000 super.-feet of sawn
timber, of which 670,800 super,
feet were exported. The profit
was £18,305, as already stated.
The co.’s forest leases are esti-
mated to contain 10,300,000
super, feet of standing pine
timber. However, competition
is expected to reduce mill earn-
ings “considerably” during the
current term.
Australian Development, N.L.,
star performer on the Tennant
Creek (N.T.) field, continues to
strike it rich. For the four
weeks to Feb. 4 1118 tons ore
were crushed for 34850 z. gold,
an average of over 3oz. to the
ton. For the year to June 30
last the mill treated 15,160 tons
ore for 29,6020 z. gold. Profit
was £312,995, of which
£300,000 was handed put in divs.
(2s. per Is. share), and a further
£150,000 (two divs. of 6d. each)
has been paid since, making
total divs. paid to date £900,000.
Ore reserves at June 30 last were
conservatively estimated at an
unchanged 206,000 tons, but the
grade had increased from 30dwt.
to 36dwt. per ton, thus increasing
their gross value by over
£947,000 to nearly £s| million
at the present statutory price of
gold. In addition there is an
“exceptionally rich” shoot only
partly developed in No. 5 shaft.
Paid capital is £150,000 in f.-p.
Is. shares, which the market
prices at 245. each as against
19s. 3d. a year ago.


Women's Letters
MEILBCDDNE
Invitations have been issued by the
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, and Lady
Brooks to a garden-party at Govern-
ment House on March 5 and 6, and on
the 7th the Youth party will be held,
when 4000 children will be entertained.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the civic reception to Sir Allen
Daley (who was physician to King
George VI) and Lady Daley, Lady
Mayoress Mrs. W. L Brens wore a
blue-and-white-patterned frock under a
navy tent-coat and a small white straw
hat which had white wings." Lady Daley’s
choice was a powder-blue frock, navy
coat and small white hat. Among the
guests were Lady McKenzie, in powder-
blue ensemble and small black hat; Mrs.
Cunningham Dax, attractive in navy-
and-white tie-silk coat-frock and small
white platter hat; Lady Burston, wearing
slate-grey wool jacket-suit and wide
hat of black straw; Mrs. Cyril Dickson,
her pastel-blue frock worn with a tiny
blue cap; and Mrs. E. C. Rigby, in
wine-toned wool frock with black
accessories,
☆ ☆ ☆
For the first night at the Princess of
“La Boheme,” with Lance Ingram and
Barbara Wilson in the principal roles, a
well-dressed audience turned up in force.
Sir Robert Knox, president of the
National Theatre Movement, entertained
a large party, among whom were Mr. and
Mrs. P. L. Coleman and the Harold
Holts. Mrs. Coleman’s gown was
of soft-blue poult, the strapless bodice
embroidered in crystal and gold beads.
Mrs. Holt’s bouffant gown was of lime-
green organza. Also in the party was
Lady Hardman, whose frock of copper
satin was worn with a tiny capelet of
mink.
Mrs. Garnet Carroll’s white silk faille
gown was embroidered in crystals and
sequins. Reta Findlay’s short draped
frock of white silk jersey was worn under
a corn-gold taffeta coat. A sweep of
pink and blue roses highlighted the strap-
less bodice of the pink-and-grey chiffon
frock worn by Mrs. W. B. Tunbridge.
Mrs. Frank Tail’s short bouffant frock
was of pervenche-blue faille. Mrs.
Ronald Nott’s smoke-grey tulle frock had
a three-tiered skirt. Mrs. Joseph Post,
wife of the conductor, wore filmy-white
tulle with dewdrop crystals embroider-
ing the strapless top. Mrs. lan Potter’s
white linen gown featured a tunic edged
with white Swiss embroidery. Mrs. E.
Thonemann was in pastel-pink crepe, Jane
Kirwan-Taylor in black Chantilly lace.
☆ ☆ ☆
The engagement is announced of Dr.
Margaret H. Nicol, daughter of Mr. A.
Nicol, of Ringwood, and the late Mrs.
Nicol, and Dr. Colin Blackwood Officer,
younger son of Dr. Doris Officer, of
Toorak, and the late Mr. E. Officer,
formerly of Zara, Deniliquin (N.S.W.).
Both - r,Jv graduated and are now
residents at Royal Melbourne Hospital.
☆ ☆ ☆
Iris Williams, smart in a black cloque
taffeta frock and gold-sequinned jacket,
was hostess at a money'-spinning party
for the International House Appeal.
Artists who contributed their services were
Margaret Holden, a pupil of Vera Brad-
ford, singer Joyce Simmons, A.B.C.
identity Maurice Denning, Babs Mc-
Kinnon and Judith and Elizabeth Taylor.
Among the guests were the Misses G. and
D. Glendinning, Mr. and Mrs. W. A.
Mounsey, Rev. L. Elliott and Mrs.
Elliott, Mrs F fix Haber, Mrs. Margaret
ker and Mesdames S. Herkes and B.
Jolly.
☆ ☆ ☆
In his speech at the Overseas League
monthly luncheon at the Victoria, Colonel
R. W. Spraggett, private secretary to the
Governor, said that Britons were far too
modest about their solid achievements
in all branches of the arts, in medicine,
science and industry. Colonel Spraggett’s
talk was mainly for those members of
the Overseas League who are going to
England for the Coronation. Air-Marshal
Sir George Jones, the league’s president,
was at the luncheon, and the vote of
thanks was given by Brigadier R. Irving.
Secretary Tom Hudson assisted to re-
ceive the quests, among whom were Mrs.
John Casson, Kathleen Gentle, Mrs.
Arnold Isaacson, Mr. and Mrs. Alan
Brockhoff, Mrs. Gillam Hunt, Paddy
Wilkinson, Mrs. R. Irving and Janice
Holmes.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. L. E. Lort Smith never lets up
in her efforts to help sick and neglected
animals; many years ago she founded
the hospital for them which bears her
name. At a melting held at Kurneh,
the South Yarra home of Sir Norman
and Lady Brookes, and attended by
members of the committee of both the
Animal Welfare League and the hospital,
plans were made for the annual appeal
for funds. A garden fete will be held
on March 28 in the lovely grounds of
Aberfeldie, 557 Toorak-road, Toorak,
the home of Dr. Roland Wettenhall.
Mrs. Gerald Robinson was elected presi-
dent of the fete committee, Mrs. Albion
Walkley, vice-president, Mr. F. D.
Nicholas, hon. treasurer, and Mrs. Stanley
Heywood hon. secretary. Friends of the
Animal Welfare League who wish to send
donations of money or goods for the
stalls, produce, cakes, sweets or vege-
tables may get in touch with Mrs. Robin-
son, 4 Heyington-place, Toorak
(UY6411).
☆ ☆ ☆
Pianist Vera Bradford is to give a
recital in the Town Hall of February 23
in aid of the University’s International
House Appeal. This appeal has a special
*
interest for Vera, for when she was abroad
she lived at the International House in
Chicago; she was also Australian repre-
sentative at the breaking-of-ground dedi-
cation for the imposing new building
there. Mrs. Arthur Blakeborough is
organising the recital. Photo by Athol
Shmith.
☆ ☆ ☆
The March racing season this year will
be a rather exciting one socially. This
city’s first Black and White Ball is planned
for March 6 (eve of the Newmarket) at
the Royale ballroom, taking the form of
a dinner-dance, 6.30 p.m. to 1 a.m. All
proceeds go to the Opportunity Clubs.
First meeting was held at Scott’s Hotel,
with Mrs. Tom Carlyon in the chair.
Prizes will be awarded to the best-dressed
matron and single girl who use the black-
and-white motif in their gowning. Mrs.
W. McGowan is in charge of decorations
and helping her will be Mrs. Hamilton
Sleigh, Mrs. M. Nicholas, Mrs. C. Cres-
wick and Mrs. Leo Guest Mesdames
Graham Nathan, Leo. Curtis and W.
Gluth are hon. ticket-secretaries and Mrs.
Bruce Rose the hon. secretary for the
function. Tickets are £2 10s. each.
On March 11 the Victoria League
Young Contingent holds its Corona-
tion ' Ball at the Royale ballroom, with
posters of scenes along the Coronation
route decorating. Adrienne Maxwell is
ball-secretary, with Mrs. lan Martin,
Elizabeth McMeaken and Joan Nesbitt
ticket-secretaries. Other committee-
members are the president of the Young
Contingent, Marjorie Tatnall, and
Mesdames Tom Hollway, Hobill Cole,
H. F. Maudsley, lan Connell and James
Buchanan.
☆ ☆ *
Only attractive hats and gay acces-
sories saved the dressing from being as
lugubrious as the weather for the M.R.C.’s
meeting at Moonee Valley. One trim
suit, however, was the black double-
breasted barathea worn by Mrs. S. Garns-
worthy with an emerald beret. Mrs.
Frank Foley’s grey suit had a nigger-
brown velvet collar which matched the
ribbon on her grey cloche. Of light-
grey wool flecked with white was Mrs.
W. K. Burnside’s suit; her tall conical
hat was of white straw. Deidre Niall’s
grey-and-white hounds’-tooth check suit
was worn with a fisher cap in green, rust
and Chartreuse wool jersey.
SYDNEY
It is no exaggeration to say that all
fashionable Sydney was at Germaine
Rocher’s autumn showings during the
week. For two consecutive afternoons
her rather smallish salon overflowed with
as soft-skinned, silken-clad and delici-
ously-scented a group of gals as this city
can command.
Madame Rocher showed a large col-
lection of French models with clothes
from her own design. All were distin-
guished by elegance and charm. Only a
few demanded any major reorientation of
ideas on what constitutes beauty in the
line of a dress or suit, but there seems
to be a general slimming-down of silhou-
ette, with the bouffant seen only in formal
ball-dresses for great occasions.
Among the new lines were the square-
cut matchbox-jackets with suits —always
worn with a narrow skirt. There were,
however, several suits with the accented
waist and rounded hipline, although these,
too, were worn with narrow skirts.
New, too, were the “stand-away-from-
the-neck” collars to suits and dresses.
Blouses were not worn with suits. The
three-row choker of pearls is still popular.
The 1920 line was seen in a few middy
jumpers (although a compromise has been
made with a hint of waistline) and in the
low-placed belt at the back of coats.
Most of the topcoats hung straight from
the shoulders, but two were definitely
waisted and flared in the skirt.
There is still a great deal of fullness in
the skirts of dresses, though they hang
narrowly, as in the very fine woollens,
for day wear and the chiffons for even-
ing. Fullness, too, is often simulated, as
in a narrow sheaf with two free panels at
the side draped to a pannier effect. Skirt
length for day wear is about 13 inches
from the ground.
There is very little beading or em-
broidery, very little brocade. Materials
predominating are wool, chiffon, satin,
faille, lace and taffeta. Outstanding
color is anthracite-grey.
Most thrilling dress of the parade was
the amethyst tulle ballgown with skirt
shaded from dark at waist to pale at hem
and the bodice crossed by an amethyst
sash of ribbon velvet like an Order of the
Garter. It was worn with a tiny pearl
coronet.
☆ ☆ ☆
Lovely Diana Davidson is the leading
lady in William On’s revue, “Metropoli-
tan Merry-Go-Round,” which opened to
such gales of delighted laughter last
Thursday. Parody played quite a large
part in the revue’s success, but the absence
of vinegar in the satire was obvious, for
most of the people being guyed were in
the first-night audience and seemed to
enjoy it hugely. Diana Davidson’s first
leading role was in Dr. Cardamatis’s pro-
duction of “The Sunken Bell.” She was
one of those witches (never to be for-
gotten) in “Dark of the Moon ” played
Peter Pan, and was in Warwick Fairfax’s
Greek tragedy. Now. as she tells the
audience in one of her charming numbers,
she is singing in a revue at the Metropoli-
tan Theatre. Photo by Montgomery
Dunn.
Couldn’t help noting at the opening
night of “Colombe” at the Independent
how quiet and demure the fashions of
1953 are compared with the dash and
flamboyance of the 1900 costumes seen
on the stage. There was nothing in the
audience to compete with the red sheath
dress that swished round the stage, though
maybe that’s just as well. Demure was
the word for the Countess of Effingham’s
Quaker-grey dress, while Mrs. Erik
Langker’s parchment frock had a deli-
cate air. Jean Stewart-Stewart (from
Singapore) wore a charming tiny black
velvet cloche embroidered with sequins
and pearls, trim and neat as the sleek
heads of all the girls. Chief comment in
the foyer was how perfectly Doris Fitton
was cast for the part of Madame Alex-
andra, and how fine was her performance.
☆ ☆ ☆
A wedding linking two old Australian
families took place at the Sacred Heart
Church, Cremorne, when Margaret
Shannon, daughter of Mrs. F. M. Shannon
and granddaughter of John Morrissey
(who was Minister for Agriculture in the
Deakin Ministry), married John Gibson,
a son of R. R. Giffson, who is chairman
of the Taxation Board of Review. John’s
mother, as a pianist toured with Amy
Castles, Florence Austral and others.
☆ ☆ ☆
Little boys—what will they think of
next! Overheard a mother after church
last Sunday saying: “And don’t ever let
me catch you bringing sardine-tins into
church again!”
☆ ☆ ☆
It will be hard to think of Sydney’s
social life without the presence of Lady
Anderson, who died suddenly at her home
last Tuesday. Her charitable work was
so extensive and her value as a committee-
member so marked that her place will
not easily be filled. Her main interest
was the British Children’s Comfort Fund
and Gift Parcels Scheme, of which she
was founder and president and of which
she was the animating spirit. For several
years she was president of the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra women’s auxiliary
and was a vice-president when she died.
A member of the council of the Royal
Empire Society, she was closely associ-
ated with the organisation of its annual
ball and was prominent in the committees
for the International Ball and the Uni-
versity Settlement Ball. During the war
she was president of the Malayan
Refugees’ Association. Formerly Miss
Josephine Wight, Lady Anderson was the
widow of Sir Francis Anderson, who
was Challis Professor of Philosophy at
Sydney University.
☆ ☆ ☆
All the guests at the reception held by
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra auxiliary
on Wednesday stood in silence for one
minute in memory of Lady Anderson.
It seeiped strange that she was not there
with Mrs. Hope Gibson to welcome every-
one and introduce them to the guest-of-
honor, who last week was the Italian
tenor Gino Mattera. Signor Mattera has
so much of the traditional Italian tenor’s
charm it doesn’t seem possible. Those
who have seen his films, “Faust and the
Devil” and “Traviata,” won’t be dis-
appointed when they see him at the Town
Hall. He doesn’t speak English very well,
is 29, unmarried and correct and polished
in manner. His new film, shortly to be
seen here, is called “Senza Veli,” a light
musical in color,
☆ ☆ ☆
It is interesting to see from the Ameri-
can fashion papers how the style of
beauty is changing. Nearly all the leading
mannequins are wearing a rather leonine
hair-do, swept back without a part from
a broad forehead which is decorated with
most emphatic eyebrows. The eyes are
large, much made-up and handsome. The
mouth is pale by comparison. The effect
is a nobler, more generous countenance:
possibly it denotes a more serious outlook
on life —or perhaps it’s just for a change.
☆ ☆ ☆
Certain fashions have a nostalgic charm
for all, so the news that Princess Anne
carries a dark-green velvet muff with her
green velvet coat, that it has a
frilled edge of pale-green satin like her
collar and cuffs, and that, moreover,
it is slung round her neck by a cord,
will bring back to many the excitement
and delight that similar outfits brought in
childhood. Let’s hope that the fashion
becomes popular so that all little girls
can know just how wonderful it is to
carry a muff.


If you have no time to
prepare that speech, or write
that article. Ring FA3083, or
write to Box 980, G.P.0.,
Sydney,
GHOST WRITERS
will prepare speeches, articles,
or letters for social, profes-
sional, business or any other
occasions. /
Efficient research organisation.
Clients’ anonymity preserved.
© $ Q 9 9 f
8
say n S
are
garagetnen
more
and
More
“Replace with
BATTERY"
si
Because he wants satisfied customers, your garageman sells products
that give good service. From experience, he knows that Lucas
Batteries are always dependable and that’s why he recommends them.
Qaragemen
are i/%
Ureas
batteries
because'
f
INSIST ON
GENUINE
LUCAS SPARE PARI
original equipment on
your British car and guaran-
teed for six months.
4458
1. They are made by Lucas in the most
modern battery factory in Australia.
2. Materials used in making Lucas Batteries
are first analysed in their own laboratory
which is fully equipped to carry out all tests
required by the Standards Association.
3. No battery passes a more exacting series
of power and durability tests than the Lucas
Battery.
4. Key technicians, with overseas experience
at the Lucas Battery Factory, ensure quality
control.
BATTERIES
HAVE 18 MONTHS INSURED LIFE.
6 volt and 12 volt for all cats, trucks and tractors.
Available from all leading Garages
and Service Stations
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Murch in Brisbane
Arthur Murch, whose exhibi-
tion is at Brisbane Moreton Gal-
leries this week, is one of the
very few Australian painters
whose work has the peculiar
timeless quality that is certain
to interest the next generation
as much as our own.
It is, in its way, extremely
modern work, in the best sense
of the term, since it is the
painter’s personal variation on
the tedhniques of pointillism and
impressionism and also because
it is never a literal copy of
Nature but a translation from
reality into a private world of
vision or fantasy ; and it should
never be valued less than the
more sensational work of other
contemporaries because its quali-
ties are of restraint and lyrical
delicacy.
In at least one respect, the
beautiful modelling of figures ‘ in
the round,” a perfection of
craftsmanship that springs partly
from the early influence of
Lambert, partly from Murch s
subsequent practice as a sculptor,
it stands in a class by itself. For
a small but significant example
in the present show there is the
painting of the feet —let alone
the complete figures —of the
mother and child in the beach-
idyll “Sun-glare” ; on the larger
scale there is the magnificent
male torso in “Spear-fisherman.”
In the landscapes the tech-
nique often tends to look too
feathery and the vision too in-
substantial. The earth is, after
all, rather a solid body to render
in lyrical fantasy. But “ The
Tree” has nevertheless a fine
shimmer of light and glow of
heat, and “Yellow Light,” where
the flood of sunlight itself gives
weight to the hills in the back-
ground and where the red tree-
trunks stand firm in the shower
of leaves, is a remarkably attrac-
tive landscape.
The figure-studies include a
number of Murch’s manifesta-
tions of naked women'and chil-
dren half-lost in the hot light of
the beaches or prancing with
stylised bodies like nymphs in
the breaking waves —familiar
but always delightful. A larger
picture, “Morning-tea,” of a
semi-nude woman in bed, is
beautifully harmonious With the
faintly yellow negligee setting
the keynote for the blond hair
and creamy complexion.
Outstanding among some
other departures into the terri-
tory of massive coastal rocks
which Murch has not previously
explored is the big “Spear-fisher-
man,” which, again beautifully
harmonious in color as the warm
crimsons of the speared rock-
cod glow upwards to the reds of
the fisherman’s features, is a
most exciting and unusual piece
of work. The young fisherman,
dramatically posed and caught
up in a flame of foam as he
emerges from the water, is trans-
into something not quite
real, with something of a Rubens
Silenus in the ragged wet hair
and faun-like face, yet remains
far more striking and memorable
in this legendary presentation
than such a figure could be if
painted direct from reality.
* ♦ * *
Donald Clark, whose paint-
ings are showing at David
Jones’s GallerV, Sydney, has
joined the great trek to the
Centre and returned with impres-
sions of the Devil’s Marbles, ant-
hills, Ayer’s Rock, Namatjira
and Drysdale. His paintings
nearer home seem less influenced
—brisk, almost determined little
landscapes which would be
much better if they were diluted
with a little sensitivity and
imagination.
Stage and Music
Beethoven Festival
Further acquaintance, through
his conducting of the Sydney
Orchestra in the second and
third concerts at the Con., con-
firmed the early favorable
impression made by Tibor
Paul’s style, methods and sound
musicianship.
Turning from the thunders
and soul-struggles of the Fifth
Symphony, Paul selected as com-
plete contrast the Sixth and the
Eighth, Beethoven’s two most
lighthearted works in this form.
Quite the happiest effects were
conjured in the dreamy medita-
tions of the andante of the
“Pastoral,” and even the avian
warblings, so detested by the
purists but loved by almost
everybody else, had about them
a carefree gaiety. Here, too,
against the gentle rise and fall
of the strings, brief figures were
tossed from one instrument to
another in the woodwind choir
with quite a joyous abandon;
and the Storm Scene’s onrushing
menace might well have caused
uneasy upward glances from
those on the lawns outside the
Con. listening to the loud-
speakers.
The Eighth Symphony,* in
which the staccato metronomic
measures of the scherzando were
given with military precision,
and the charming 12 Contra-
DanCes, found the orchestra
eagerly responsive, no less to
Mr. Paul’s at-times-stern exhor-
tations than to his easy
persuasiveness.
Isador Goodman was soloist
in the Fourth Piano Concerto,
in which he employed a crisp
style and nice phrasing. In the
Fifth Concerto (“The Emperor”)
Audrey White made it abund-
antly clear that she is one of our
most promising young pianists—
her attacks were always clean,
her trillings of fine clarity, her
overall grasp of the work
unexceptionable, her feeling for
its spirit obvious.
* * * *
Garden Concert
The unusual certainty of fine
weather drew the largest crowd
on record to the latest concert
at Melbourne Botanic Gardens.
One of the artists, Richard Col-
lett of the “South Pacific” com-
pany, said the mob assembled
would overflow any of America’s
famous sound-bowls.
The glorious sunshine also
brought a piano on to the
platform for the first time.
Awakened by Margaret Sco-
field’s fingers, it spread the har-
monies of Grieg’s A minor con-
certo over the lake, the lawns
and the flower-beds.
Haydn’s Toy Symphony,
which was an immense success
at a previous concert, was re-
■ peated with, the juvenile instru-
ments in the hands of eminent
virtuosi. Conductor was Hector
Crawford.
* * * *
“Colombo”
“Colombe,” another of
Anouilh’s light, satirical com-
ments on love, is very thin ice
to be skating on, but the Inde-
pendent Theatre at North Syd-
ney show no sign of going
through it, even though one gets
the vague impression that they
—or the translator —have frozen
it a few degrees extra for safety’s
sake.
Anouilh sets most of his essay
backstage with Julien, the
Vaguely impractical and idealistic
son of Madame Alexandra, a
reigning tragedy queen, being
called up for military service
and leaving his wife and her
innocence to the care of his
mother. Under the influence of
the mother, who has no illu-
sions about anything, and of
sundry other theatrical people
whom Anouilh forks about with
a good deal of light satire, the
young wife’s progress from the
restraints of obedient matrimony
to a more comfortable and
worldly existence is remarkably
rapid.
Although its main theme is
the impermanence of love —or
the impossibility of permanent
love —the play also has em-
bedded in its comedy and satire
a secondary study—of the de-
struction of innocence—and in
that it doesn’t compare with
Maupassant’s “Yvette” for sen-
sitivity and insight. Still, Benita
Harvey, as Colombe, the young
wife, traces her hungers and pas-
sions with a good deal of deli-
cate clarity, and as she hangs
for a moment on her indecision
the whole theatre seems to hang
with her in breathless expecta-
tion.
Doris Fitton, however, took
the evening with a fine, flourish-
ing performance as Madame
Alexandra, the tragedienne —a
superb study, done for all it was
worth in the round, but, despite
its flourish, never overdone, and,
despite its high key, continually
shaded with admirable varia-
tions.
Richard Meikle, as the young
husband, rises to some strength
in the third and fourth acts;
Louis Wishart catches the right
mixture of creeping subservience
and sly viciousness as Madame’s
secretary; and Robert Levis
makes some ridiculous, prancing
comedy out of his role as her
tame playwright and poet,
*t* *X* ❖
“Merry-Go-Round”
Sydney Metropolitan has come
up with a very bright revue at
the expense of a lot of local
institutions. It will be reviewed
here next week.
Talkies
“Plymouth Adventure”
There is much that is attrac-
tive in this M.-G.-M. film of the
voyage of the Mayflower from
Plymouth to New England,
carrying settlers and dissenters.
The sea scenes, including a
realistic autumnal storm over
the Atlantic and the consequent
confusion between - decks
crowded with passengers, could
hardly be bettered.
But there had to be Romance.
The affair between the carpenter
and the only marriageable girl
on board being altogether too
tepid, the script-writer must
needs stress the fictitious passion
of ship’s-captain Christopher
Jones (Spencer Tracy) with the
wife of the religious zealot
William Bradford (Gene
Tierney).
Tribute shoyld be paid, how-
ever, to the remarkable
prescience displayed by so many
of the Englishmen and -women
aboard that first voyage in
adopting a strongly-nasal accent
that was to be taken up so
enthusiastically some centuries
later by their Yankee de-
scendants.
* * * *
“Hunted”
This thriller at Sydney Victory
has a basic weakness in its plot.
A seven-year-old child, running
home from school, accidentally
comes upon an ex-sailor and the
body of his wife’s lover whom
he has just slain. Instead of
simply going about his unlawful
occasions and ignoring the kid,
the murderer forces the
youngster to accompany him on
his flight, thus making the task
of his pursuers easier and
burdening himself grievously
and unnecessarily, seven-year-
olds never having been conspicu-
ously successful as accurate
Crown witnesses.
His asinine action, however,
does allow the main theme to
develop—the man’s growing
attachment to the child and vice
versa.
There is no lack of tenseness
as the net thrown by Scotland
Yard gradually closes in. And
while there are too many loose
threads left lying around at the
end, the disarming naturalness of
the child is refreshing. Dirk
Bogarde is the bad-good man.
* * * *
“Because of You”
He is a wounded airman and
she a nurse and kind—-thus the
romance. She is lonely and he
rich and respectable with that
familiar dash of American im-
petuosity —thus the marriage.
But he is emotionally unstable,
and for his own good she con-
ceals a prison-record —thus the
divorce. There is an unfortunate
and unhappy child —thus the
reconciliation. It’s at Sydney
State, with Jeff Chandler and
Loretta Young.


: V
I
HI
The Electricity Trust of South Australia
has established a steam power station at the
Leigh Creek Coal Field. The load demand
includes electric excavators. Two turbo-
altemators are installed, served by two
Babcock boiler units each delivering 25,000
lbs. of steam per hour at 200 p.s.i. and
630°F. These units are equipped with
Babcock-Detroit RotoGrates. This spreader
type stoker has a forward travelling grate,
providing continuous ash removal. The
Ii rn successfully Leigh Creek coal
V') having a calorific value of
5,500, 6,500 8.T.U./lb. with from 28/36%
moisture and 7/17% ash.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Office and Agencies in all Stales
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
CRIPPLING RHEUMATIC
quickly eased with
TRADE MARR l
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
Q During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
. DOLCIN is non-toxic. .
. DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
. DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years. . , . . .
• 1,100,000,000 tablets have been administered throughout
the world.
. DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
. DOLCIN is obtainable from your chemist.
fj*;'
ft **
b he« m
aT |CA
9CI
OdlT ,S
Lt)“
: I |V
, Iff l
a bl£
i'' 1
mu
60T' tE
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLGIN
Informative literature on Doidn
will be seat on request to Doidn
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Box 1552,
G.P.0., Sydney.
The BORROWING PATH
By M. G. VINCENT
j ' HE Mersons moved into
f their new house on the
V j last day of December. It
was a large L-shaped
house of white brick with a
green-tiled roof, and within the
L-angle a wide porch opened on
to a terrace bordered with flower-
boxes.
Mrs. Merson and the two girls
were very proud of this terrace
because it was the first to appear
in the district. The two girls,
Miriel and Lorraine, spent most
of their first day using it as a
stage; but unfortunately there
were few neighbors to witness
their graceful posing, as the
quarter-acre block was a stray
tucked among the small orchards
which encircled the town with a
two-mile border.
Their nearest neighbor was
about two-hundred yards away
on - the crest of the steep hill. It
was one of those galvanised-iron
places of four small rooms, two
of them under a skillion roof,
which are generally titivated with
a bulging tank on one side and
a thin chimney like a violin-case
stuck on the other. This house
also had a skimpy front-veranda
with a high, bull-nosed roof ; and
when viewed from the low-lying
road it looked like a houseboat
that had been dumped on the
hill by a flood, its forlorn gang-
way reaching out for the lost
shore.
Between the Mersons and the
Pellys lay a two-acre cultivation
paddock, freshly mown. The
stooks of tawny oats, which had
been tumbled by yesterday’s
wind, were now couchant like
languid lions, dozing in the
reddening sun. The hillside
reflected light on to the terrace,
so that the girls in their light
print dresses were illumined like
figures on a stage. They were
not aware of this, and continued
to gaze with speculative curiosity
across the paddock at the dilapi-
dated house.
Suddenly on to the jutting
veranda spilled a cluster of
children. They stared down the
hill at the terrace and its
occupants, and after a moment
several voices cried in unison,
“Silvertails! Ya-ya, youse silver-
tails!”
At first it sounded meaningless,
but after five minutes the word
“silvertails” was clear as a cock-
crow.
Mrs. Merson thrust her head
around the* French-door and
asked in her tired voice “What
is that dreadful noise?” Her
milky-blue eyes turned vaguely
in a vacuous face.
“It’s those awful Pellys.”
“What Pellys?”
“Oh, Mum !” cried the girls.
The woman stared unseeingly
at the scattered stocks. “O-o-h,
the Pellys,” she breathed without
comprehension, and after a
moment or two said “I must
remember to get your father to
do something about that
gardener. I said anything but
geraniums. I’m sure I said
anything but geraniums.” After
a moment or two lost in con-
templation of the boxes she
withdrew her head.
There followed five minutes of
uninterrupted “Ya-ya, silver-
tails,” while the Merson girls
posed nonchalantly.
Then the front-door opened
and the mother said dreamily
“Come in. Immediately.”
Although she still looked like a
sleep-walker, the girls knew
better than to be misled. They
obeyed her instantly.
As they passed her, she said
“Geraniums are so common.
You are not to encourage those
children. And red ones, too.
Now go into the bedroom and
put away your clothes. Tidily.
They’ll all have to come out,”
UNTIL sundown they heard no
more of the Pellys. Then a
high-pitched, discordant voice
penetrated to the far end of the
orchard-filled valley. “Hem and
’Arry-y-y. Hem and ’Arry-y-y.
Come ’ome and fetch Harabelle.
Harabelle-e-e. Come hon, girl.
Come hon. Come hon. Come
honnnnnn.”
Miriel and Lorraine hurried
to the windows, and were in time
to see two tattered children drop
from the Mersons’ southern
palisading and go skimming over
the golden chaff like low-flying
birds. Along the dusty road
plodded a Jersey cow, the huge
udder swaying. From the
rhythmical jaws saliva spun into
glistening threads which were
trailed out by the breeze and
lost in the hyaline haze.
Having pounded this summons
like a muezzin .announcing the
hour to the valley, Mrs. Felly,
an animated mopstick, stalked
woodenly from her parapet and
slammed the door behind her.
A few seconds later she could be
heard demanding raucously
“Haymy, fetch the haxe.”
The Merson girls spent the
rest of the evening imitating Mrs.
Felly’s commands, and then
exhausting themselves with gasp-
ing giggles, Mr. Merson, tapping
his teeth with his pipe, regarded
them fondly; but their mother,
lost in one of her deep reveries,
took no notice of any of it.
After two hours of this
mystery he asked “Is this
fascinating pastime a secret?”
“Oh, Daddy” gulped Miriel.
“It’s those dreadful Pellys. Oh,
they’re dreadful.”
“That’s the people in
Hosking’s place, isn’t it?” he
mused. Then he smiled. “Not
very cultured, is it? Strictly
vaudeville.” He turned to his
wife. “Glayl,” he said in a some-
what loud tone. “Glad! ” She
looked at him and opened her
mouth, but before she could
speak he asked “What are you
going to do about the Pellys
when you have cocktails on the
terrace?”
She awakened suddenly. “If
I see you girls encouraging those
Pellys,” she said, “I shall punish
you. And Ralph. You must see
Mr. Hosking, If you handle Mr.
Hosking . . . ” Her voice trailed
off. She had evidently decided
that it was not safe to pursue this
matter further in front of the
girls.
Her husband said amiably
“Certainly, my dear. Now just
make out a list of the people you
would like to take over the place
and I’ll hand it on to him. You
better give at least six names.
It’s on the cards he mightn’t like
some of them as tenants, and
then, of course, some of them
mightn’t like him as a landlord
or they mightn’t like the house.
Of course it hasn’t a terrace !”
“Oh, for goodness’ sake,
Ralph, don’t go on and on. I’m
just worn out, and I can’t stand
it. Now, you girls! You heard
what I said. We are to have
nothing to do with the Pellys.
As far as we are concerned the
Pellys just don’t exist.”
T IKE King Canute, she over-
estimated her authority.
Next morning at 7.30 the first
wave, as it were, of the incoming
tide lapped at the Mersons’
kitchen-step.
“Hey! ” squeaked a voice as
Mrs. Merson switched-on the
coffee-percolator. At last her
wandering gaze came to the open
door. So great was her astonish-
ment that she actually focused
her eyes and asked sharply
“What do you want?”
“Ma says willy’lendus a
cuppasugar,”
“I’m sorry,” was the instant
reply, “but I haven’t unpacked.”
She moved briskly to the door,
and as she shut it said “Now run
straight home.”
Through the window she
watched the small boy streak up
the hill, his rags flying like sea-
weed in the breeze.
Mr. Merson came into the
kitchen. “Well, Glad,” he said
in his benevolent voice, “I see
you nipped that in the bud pretty
smartly.” His long lean face
was as usual immobile, the brow
unfurrowed and the tanned
cheeks slack; but if Mrs.
Merson had been capable of
keen observation she would have
seen the glitter of ridicule in his
eye and the almost imperceptible
grimace which flattened the long
bulge between the nose and
upper lip. But she had not
really observed her husband for
almost a decade.
She said “I do wish I could
be sure you’d see that man about
the shrubs today. You must be
sure they’re fast-growing. We
must shut out that house as soon
as possible. And instead of the
geraniums—well, just see that he
comes and I’ll . . . Those
red ...”
Mr. Merson did not bother to
answer. He sat down in. the
breakfast-nook just as the girls
came out. Smiling broadly at
them he cried “Ah, health-food
again. Surely there’s a bigger
and better health-food available
now we’ve moved into this bigger
and better house. Now this one
has vitamins A, B, C and D.
Surely you could find one with
F, G, H and I.”
“Oh, Daddyyyyy! ” shrieked
the girls. “Mummy, doesn’t he
go on ?”
“I can’t help wishing I could
be sure you’d see about those
shrubs. And I can’t have those
geraniums when Mrs. Burnett
comes . . . red.”
A SHATTERING blow was
struck on the door. Mrs.
Merson jumped. “Goodness
gracious,” she whispered.
“Come ’ere and hopen this
door. ’Urryhup!”
Mr. Merson opened the door.
“Good morning. Mrs. Felly, isn’t
it? Nice morning, isn’t it?” he
asked courteously.
“Where’s your missus?” de-
manded the caller.
“Mrs. Felly to see you, Glad,"


WORMALD BROTHERS SYSTEMS
for protection against FIRE!
.
v.Ai-
. ■ ■ •: ,
-
iMMWMiIWM
m '*
:■:■ :,:■ ■-: ••;.■:
ip&ai?--
.rr
#
/‘ , c '
* 1
To kill fire
effectively, each
type of fire requires
a different
extinguishing
technique
“Simplex” and “Kidde ” (“Lux”)
Fire Extinguishers are self-
contained units, ruggedly con-
structed, foolproof. Each does
a specific job. At your office,
factory, engineering shop, ware-
house or store —on farm or
station —in your car, truck or
yacht they’re always ready
for instant, positive action in
an emergency.
“Simplex” and “Kidde” Fire
Extinguishers are approved by
all Government Departments,
and used by the Navy, Army
and Air Force,
A ■ SIMPLEX" OR "KIDDE" FOR
EVERY TYPE OF FIRE RISK
A
dsf
C & D
dsf
(A) "Simplex" Auto Type Carbon Tetrachloride (CTC). Capacity:
1 quart. For motor lorries and cars, lift motor rooms, small electrical
switchboards and other electrical risks.
(B) "Simplex" Stored Pressure Carbon Tetrachloride (CTC) Type.
1-gallon capacity. For large electrical installations, telephone exchanges
and similar risks.
(C) "Simplex" Foam Type, 2-gallon . capacity. Specified tor all
highly inflammable liquids and materials when, in case of Fire, a
blanketing effect is desired.
(D) "Simplex” Soda Acid Type. ■ 2-gallon capacity. For all general
fire protection purposes. Install in offices, factories, hotels, halls, farm
buildings-, theatres, homes.
(E) "Kldde" (Hand) Carbon Dioxide Gos (CO2) Type, 12-lb.
capacity. Has no damaging after-effects. Particularly specified for
protection of switchboards, electrical motors and apparatus, and
certain inflammable hazards.
CC
SIMPLEXKIDDE
»)
(Previously known as “LUX”)
HAND FIRE EXTINGUISHERS
sd
Manufactured by
WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRIES
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889
ASSOCIATED COMPANIES:
KIRSCH COMPANY lAUST.) LTD. STEELBILT LIMITED
said Mr. Merson equably, and
then sat down to watch.
For the second time that day,
Mrs. Merson really looked at
an object. She saw a woman
nearly six feet tall. The long
thin legs supported a long thin
body clothed in a print tube. On
top of the long thin neck
balanced a huge bony, red face
surrounded by a mass of curly
grey hair. Above the beaked
nose the fierce grey eyes glittered
in their hooded caverns. ‘‘What’s
this you told my ’Any when Hi
sent ’im down for sugar? Can
you look me hin the heye and
tell me you hain’t got none, with
hit staring me fair hin the face?”
demanded Mrs. Felly.
The sound Mrs. Merson made
was without meaning. She
looked urgently at her husband,
but he was giving Mrs. Felly his
full and rapt attention. Mrs.
Merson’s hand jerked out and
seized the cracked cup held by
Mrs. Felly. She took it to the
table and ladled sugar into it
from the basin. Without a word
she handed it back.
Mrs. Felly’s grimy thumb
fastened like a talon on the rim
of the cup, displacing a mound
of the sparkling granules. As
though the touch of the sugar
had neutralised her anger, she
said with a rough good-humor,
“That’s the worst of youse silver-
tails, Now hif Hi was a nob sit-
ting hup there and Hi asked for
sugar, you’d send me the flaming
bag. but because Hi hain’t got
nothink, youse think that’s the
way Hi should stop. Why didn’t
youse stay among your hown
kind hinstead of coming to nest
hout ’ere with hus coppertails?
Birds of a feather flock together.
That’s the way hit should be
and heveryone ’appier and no
harguments over a lousy cupper
sugar. Well, s’long, Hi’ll be
seeing y’.”
The Mersons watched her cut
precisely the same angle as the
children had done, across the
paddock.
“There’ll be a track worn there
soon,” observed Mr. Merson,
with interest. “Well, I must get
on with this Health Feast.”
“Let’s call it the ‘Borrowing
Path’,” cried Miriel.
Mrs. Merson sat down heavily.
“I’ve come over all weak,” she
said tearfully. “Really, Ralph, I
think you might have done some-
thing to help me! You were no
help at all.”
“How can a mere cipher
help?” demanded Mr. Merson
pleasantly, “I ceased to be a
man years ago. You’re the head
of the house, my dear. You
make the decisions. All I have
is the privilege of providing the
money,”
Mrs. Merson didn’t hear any
of this. She was thinking of
what she would say next. “You
just sat there and let that woman
make a fool of me in my own
home.”
“You can see the value of
surprise tactics,” pointed out
Mr. Merson. “Under the circum-
stances you did the only thing
possible. You retreated. This
is in accordance with the best
traditions.”
“Oh, Daddy!” cried Miriel.
“Stop making fun of Mummy.
You are horrid.”
“And the worst of it is,” cried
Mrs. Merson, still unaware of
the rest of the conversation,
“that now they’ll always be at
it. Borrowing, I mean.”
“If I’m to keep two families I
better go to work an hour earlier
each morning and stay an hour
later each evening,” commented
Mr. Merson. “Let us hope,” he
elaborated cheerfully, “that they
don’t take it into their heads to
borrow our terrace.”
“What on earth are you talk-
ing about?” demanded his wife
crossly. “How could they
borrow our terrace?”
“I’m pleased to hear it. That's
a great weight off my mind. This
whole house, was built around
that terrace. If it hadn’t been
for that terrace inspiration we’d
still have been pigging it in that
dungeon in Help-street.”
Miriel said “You’re just saying
that to be nasty. You didn t
want to leave Help-street. Did
he, Mummy?”
“My dear girl, you are mis-
taken, I assure you. How could
a man of my sound standing and
remarkable attainments be
content to vegetate in Help-
street? Let us hear no more of
Help-street. We have outgrown
Help-street. Culturally, socially
and, I hope, financially.”
“I do wish I could rely on
you to see about those shrubs,”
whimpered Mrs. Merson. “Fast-
growing, make sure. We must
do what we can to shut out those
dreadful people.”
A MONTH later there was a
well-defined path between
the Pellys’ and Mersons’ houses.
Mr. Merson, sitting with his
family on the terrace one Satur-
day evening, regarded it with his
head on one side.
At last he took his pipe from
his mouth and gently knocked
the bowl on the sole of one of
his mirror-polished shoes. “It
just shows what consistent effort
can accomplish,” he said, care-
fully serious. He pulled at the
fleshy lobe of his ear. “A month
ago that was an untrodden
waste,” he intoned, “but today
an ant-like commerce has set up
its lines of communication.
Think of the countless cups of
sugar, the flour and starch, the
jugs of milk, the tablespoons of
vinegar, custard-powder, salt,
tea, the slices of bread that have
been drawn from this reservoir
of riches, this horn of plenty, and
transported along that umbilical
thread—that cord that nourishes
an entire family. In a year’s time
that path will be sunk a foot
deep. In ten years’ time we will
have a ready-made trench to pro-
tect us from atom-bomb raids.”
“Oh, Daddy!” shrieked the
children. “Mummy, isn’t he
silly? Listen to what he’s say-
ing about that awful borrowing
path.”
But the mother’s eyes were
flickering ceaselessly, searching
for some chore that needed
urgent attention. The sight of
her husband sitting down filled
her with an irritable unrest.
Slumped in the cane-chair, her
rounded fleshy shoulders sagging
towards her heavy bosom, her
eyes pinpointed in abstraction,
her lips petulant and her cheeks
and chin pendulous with fat, only
her hair retained the loveliness
which had been hers in youth. It
clustered about her face in a
filigree of shining curls.
She said “I do wish you’d see
to those shrubs before it gets
tfark, Ralph.”
He said thoughtfully “Yes. I
consider I’m a remarkable man.”
He sucked sibilantly at his pipe.
“Here I am keeping two homes
in the strictest propriety.” Sud-
denly he pointed the stem of his
pipe at the other house. “Ah,
yes. I thought so. Here comes a
dispatch-runner. Instinct guides
his feet. Now just watch him.
He hasn’t looked at the ground
once. By Christopher, it must
be a matter of life or death. It
can’t be matches, kerosene, boot-
polish, floor-polish, castor-oil
(certainly not!), soap or today’s
paper. I know what it is—they
probably want a loan of the car
to go to the talkies. What a pity
I didn’t know. I could have
cleaned it up for them.”
“Ralph!” cried Mrs. Merson,
suddenly finding animation.
“You’re not going to lend them
the car!”
“Oh, Mummy, don’t be so
silly. Daddy’s only going on.”
“Mr. Merson. Mr. Merson.
Quick,” panted the desperate
runner as he neared the gate.
“Ma’s —dying. Kin I borrer
some brandy?”
Mr. Merson instantly sprang to
his feet and dashed into the
house. He reappeared in a few
seconds with a bottle three-
quarters full. “I better come,
hadn’t I?” he asked as the boy
stretched out his hand for the
bottle. He vaulted over the
flower-boxes and headed for the
path.
“What a nuisance,” moaned
Mrs. Merson. “I was hoping
he’d get round to doing those
shrubs.”
She did not add that She now-
hoped he would arrive too late
to save Mrs. Felly from death.
TT was almost dark when he
returned, so he evaded the
shrub chore, but not his wife’s
annoyance. “Oh, so you did get
back. What was wrong with the
woman?”
“How should I know, my
dear? I’m not a doctor.”
“What was she doing when
you got there?”
“She was lying on a couch
thing crying weakly for brandy,
so I gave her a good nip and
after she’d finished coughing and
spluttering she said ‘What bloody
hawful tack. What brand his
hit?”’ Mr. Merson scratched
amongst his thick bristling hair
with the stem of the pipe. There
vi as a faint smile on his lips.
His wife sniffed delicately.
“You’re a fool, wasting good
brandy on her,” she said.
“There’s nothing wrong with that
woman. She’s as strong as a
horse. Now if she had my inside
she’d have reason to complain.”
“Well, she looks a bad color.
But perhaps that’s because she
was trying to prop up the tank,
and it was too much for her and
she had this turn. Certainly was
pasty.”
“That’s because of her
incorrect diet,” stated Mrs.
Merson sourly, as though she
knew of every mouthful con-
sumed in the Felly home.
“Is that so?” asked Mr.
Merson with feigned surprise.
“H’m. Well, then, tomorrow I
must put in a word for health-
food, then. She probably only-
had wind round the heart from
the wrong food. I must do my
best to introduce her to the
miracles of yeast, molasses,
shredded vegetables and whole-
meal bread. Definitely whole-
meal ! ”
“Tomorrow!” cried his wife,
enticed from her daydreaming
by this titbit. “How do you
know you’ll see her tomorrow?”
“I know because tomorrow she
is borrowing me for an hour to
prop up her tank.”
A deep-red flush rose slowly
from Mrs. Merson’s blouse and
gradually suffused her face, ears
and scalp. Her lips thinned and
paled so that her teeth showed
beneath the flesh like small
bones.
“Where is her husband?” she
demanded, now concentrating.
“On the main roads. He’s
away a lot. At the moment he’s
up the coast repairing flood
damage. But he expects to be
getting a cushy job soon, so she
said, and then they’ll be moving,
you’ll be pleased to hear.”
“Well, let him fix the tank
when he comes home,” com-
manded Mrs. Merson, more
alarmed by present poaching
than soothed by promises of a
fairer future. “If you go up
there once, you’ll always be up
there. And any rate you can’t
go tomorrow. There are all
those shrubs.”
“I know all about the shrubs,
Glad.,” said her husband
pleasantly. “And I’ll fix them
up for you after I’ve done the
tank. It’ll be collapsing and
killing some of those kids.”
“Oh,” she said. She looked
vaguely about her for a few
seconds, and then, as though she
had found what she was search-
ing for, she stated “I think I’ll go
to bed. I have a dreadful head-
ache. It must be the glare. • I
must order some sun-blinds for
the terrace.” She began to
gather up her threads and
tapestry, groping feebly for her
dilly-bag whilst her gaze lay on
the flower-boxes. “There’s a
casserole in the oven and the ice-
cream. And you can make me
some toast. I wonder if it was a
good idea to let him plant bulbs.
But geraniums! And the scent
is so ... I wonder if I should get
my glasses changed. I hope your
insurance is paid up . . .
She had all her odds-and-ends
in the dilly-bag now, and she
wandered through the French-
doors into the bedroom.
NEXT morning when Mr.
Merson and the two girls
returned from Felly’s, Miriel
flopped down breathless on the
kitchen-step. “They have double-
decker beds, Mummy,” she cried.
“And they’ve got bugs in them.
Agnes said so. She, said ‘I
guess they’d be comfortable if it
wasn’t for the bugs!’ That’s
just what she said. ‘lf it wasn't
for the bugs.’ Oh, isn’t it
awful!"
“Mummy, isn’t it dreadful!”
called Lorraine, running into the
room. “They have bugs !”
Mrs. Merson stood transfixed,
the rolling-pin held in the air
with a long strip of pastry falling
away from it.
“Go into the bathroom
immediately and take off every
stitch of clothing, and put them
in the bath, and then have a good
look on each other! Now hurry
up. And if your father takes
you up there again. I’ll have
something to say. Next time
he’s borrowed let him go by
himself.”
o Continued on next page)


ALL OVER THE WORLD
iK
M
it
* /-I
m
y>
■ »
•*szs*>
fcs-
mornings begin with Gillette
The sons of the East all agree with the West
That super-sharp Blue Gillette Blades are the best,
And the satisfied Sultan advises his brother,
“Use the razor and blade that are made for each other.”
BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
5-BLADE PACKETS. 2/1
10-BLADE PACKETS. 4/2
D
20-BLADE DISPENSER, 8/4
The world’s best shaving value!
Blue Gillette Blades
“Now, Glad,” he said,
ambling into the kitchen. “Don’t
be silly. All they did was stand
in the room. Bugs don’t jump.”
She ignored him. “Did you
bring home those scissors, Miriel,
that that woman borrowed on
Wednesday?”
“They’re on the table,” called
out Miriel. “And, Mummy, she
said to hurry up with them.
She’s in the middle of cutting out
a shirt for ’Any.”
“Welllll! ” said Mrs. Merson,
expelling a gusty breath. She
stared at the scissors as though
they had mesmerised her. At
last she put out a wavering hand
and grasped them. As she
wandered into the dining-room,
she said “I must send these in
to be sharpened. Now I must
remember. Where can I put them
so as I’ll remember?”
On Tuesday when one of the
Pellys came down for the
scissors she gave him the old
kitchen-scissors that she used for
flowers and paper. The child
was back within the quarter-
hour. “Ma says where’re your
good ones, these wouldn’t cut
butter.”
“My good ones!” fluttered
Mrs. Merson. “Oh, dear, yes.
They’re in town being sharpened.
Now do shut that door and run
along home like a good child,
I’m trying to bake,”
As soon as the child had gone,
Mrs. Merson sat down. She
nodded her head several times
with satisfaction. Let Mrs. P.
buy her own scissors. If the
Pellys were poor it was due
solely to that woman’s bad
management. No doubt Mr. P.
got well above the basic wage,
and then, look at the endow-
ment! Thinking of the endow-
ment, she became very annoyed.
All that money every fortnight
and not a thing to show for it.
The house a pigsty. The
children in tatters. And Mrs.
Merson’s weekly bills getting
larger and larger. For perhaps
the hundredth time she resolved
that this borrowing would have
to be stopped.
CHE made the first attempt to
abide by her resolve on the
following day. Amy came down.
“Ma says kin we have a
loahuvatin of boot-polish?”
“.Well, I’m just going to start
on some of our shoes, so I’m
afraid I can’t.”
“I’ll wait.”
Amy promptly sat down on
the top step.
“Well, I have quite a number
to do. All the family’s, really.
I’ve been meaning to for days.
I think you better go home. It’ll
take me a long time and I don’t
think I’ll have enough to finish
them.” She started to shut the
door. “Look out for your
fingers, Amy,” she said dreamily.
Reluctantly the child withdrew
from the step. The door was
shut on her open-mouthed
astonishment.
Five minutes later there was a
soft knock. Mrs. Merson
ignored it. She felt her heart
thumping as she tiptoed out of
the room and took sanctuary in
the bathroom. She was standing
by the bath, staring sightlessly at
the frieze of penguins, when a
shadow spread over the wall in
front of her. She started
violently and , turned around.
The small window was blotted
by a figure. A pair of eyes
peered around the frame. “Oh,
Mrs, Berson,” squeaked the
youngest Felly, “I fort I heard
you in dere.”
Mrs. Merson snapped “What
are you doing up there?” Anger
replaced the terror. "Anyone
would think you people owned
this place. Now get down and
go home.” .
“But I’ve come down to have
me shoes cleaned,” protested the
child. “Ma sent me. I’ve got
dem hon all ready for you. And
Ma says to put a bit exter on the
patch. It’s cardboard, see, and it
looks funny, but Ma says if you
be sure to cover it up with polish
it won’t show.”
It was a long time since Mrs.
Merson had felt such anger. Her
head throbbed with it.
“You go straight home and
tell your mother I haven’t time
to clean my own family’s shoes
let alone other people’s.”
“But Ma’s taking me to the
doc. about me froat.”
Mrs. Merson reached up for
the window-catch. “I can’t help
it if you’re going to see the
Queen,” she said hoarsely, and
shut the window. “(Oh, dear, this
is too much.”
In her distress she went to sit
down on the side of the bath and,
missing it by an inch, flopped on
to the floor.
CHE whimpered to her husband
that night. She felt as
though every inch of her body
had been bruised. She wept.
“It’s all the fault of that
dreadful woman. She’s driving
me mad.”
“You know. Glad,” said her
husband philosophically, “1
think you’re taking this the
wrong way. Can’t you see the
funny side of it, instead of bat-
tling all the time?” Even as he
spoke he knew the futility of
asking his wife to see the funny
side of anything.
“Funny side of it!” she cried.
“It’s all very well to ask me to
see the funny side of it. It’s me
who’s bruised all over. Not you!
And what is it costing me?
Have you thought of that? I
have never had such high food-
bills in all pur married life.
That’s all the thanks I get for
the economical way I’ve run this
house. Anyone would think it
was easy to run a house
economically. You have just
taken it for granted. Where
would we be if I’d been a spend-
thrift? We wouldn't have this
house, for one thing. Oh, dear,
if I’d only known what a
dreadful woman she was, I
wouldn’t have taken this block.
I don’t know why you won’t see
Mr. Hosking. She’s ruining our
lives.”
A faint twinkle came into his
eyes. He sat down on the side
of the bed, and very thought-
fully pressed tobacco into the
bowl of the pipe. He didn’t say
anything for a full minute after
her lament had died away. As
he held the lighted match hover-
ing over the bowl, he said “You
know. Glad, you mustn’t get
despondent when you find that
other people aren’t as amenable
to your wishes as I am.”
She didn’t even hear his voice,
and he had scarcely finished
before she stated “That woman
is just as responsible for my fall
as if she had pushed me.”
The sound of the clicking gate
came sharply; there were run-
ning feet. Mrs. Merson moaned
“Oh, my neck. I can’t turn it an
inch. What do they want now ?
I’m going to stop this. It has to
stop, Ralph.”
One of the girls came ini.
“Daddy, where’s the brandy?
Mrs. P.’s had a bad turn.”
Tears rolled down Mrs.
Merson’s cheeks. “Don’t you
dare leave me, Ralph. It’s all
put on. I was talking to Mrs,
Talbot down the road, and she
says that before we came Mrs.
Felly drank a whole bottle of
their brandy. And she had
Prosper’s brandy, too. She’s
always having these so-called
‘turns.’ Mrs. Talbot says-she’s
as strong as an ox. Now, Mirry,
you just tell them that all the
brandy is gone and ...”
Mr. Merson interrupted. “We
can’t do that. Glad. We’ll have
to send her some,”
“I don’t see why, but if you’ve
set your heart on pandering to
her, there’s a little bottle, it’s
clean and everything, in the cup-
board under the sink. Mrs.
Prosper says she’s been having
these turns regularly ever since
she came here five years ago . . .
and really with all our expense,
and I must get blinds for that
terrace.”
She closed her eyes as though
even the thought of the glare
were too much for her. When
she opened them, Mr, Merson
had gone. She moved her head
fretfully from side to side, and
swished her legs in a wide arc
between the cool sheets. “Nearly
thirty shillings a bottle,” she
murmured. “It’d last us a couple
of years.”
She heard the plop of the cork
being drawn, and then the clink
of glass as the bottles touched.
“What a fool he is,” she cried
in her anger.
“What is it, Mummy?”
inquired Lorraine, coming to the
door.
“How much has your father
given that woman?”
“Oh, that little bottle, I think.”
The father, came in, holding
out a glass. “Here you are,” he
said. “I thought you might like
to join Mrs. P. in a snort.”
“Don’t be ridiculous. Oh,
how vulgar,” she began, roused
by anger from her usual surface
apathy.
But he held the glass to her
lips. “Come on, sit up or it’ll
spill. Glad. You haven’t had the
practice Mrs. P.’s had, you know.
Come on. It’ll make you feel
more convivial.”
“Nothing,” she replied
vehemently, “will alter the fact
that you’re a fool the way you
let people put things over you.”
“You never made a wiser
observation, Glad,” he replied
imperturbably. ''But what sort
of a life would you and the girls
lead if I reformed? No
terraces. No model hats. No
five-guinea shoes. No elocution
lessons. No piano lessons. No
six-week Sydney-splurges. No
wireless at night when I’ve got
headache. No health-foods.
And certainly no sun-blinds.”
“Oh, my poor head,” whim-
pered Mrs, Merson. “Oh, if it
isn’t any better. I’ll have to have
the doctor in the morning. Now
please leave me in peace. And
I’m pleased to hear you’re going
to order those sun-blinds in the
morning. And be sure they
match the front ones. And be
sure to rinse out this glass. That
dreadful smell! I like a scalloped
piece, you know. Just like the
front.”
■COR a fortnight after this
episode, Mrs. Merson main
tained a resistance-movement
against the Pellys’ infiltration.
She kept the southern windows
and doors closed, and kept a
wary eye on their house prac-
tically all the day. As soon as
she saw anyone start down the
“borrowing path,” as it was now
always called, she closed the
back-door and windows and
retired to the lounge-room, where
the venetian-blinds were always
closed against the light. There
among the grey and lilac she sat
primly, her hands in her lap and
her lips compressed.
After a week the visits prac-
tically ceased, and Mrs. Merson,
whilst taking the precaution of
keeping the southern wall blank,
began to rejoice. One night
about a fortnight after the
brandy-episode, one of the girls
said “Isn’t Mummy clever.
Daddy? She’s stopped the
Pellys from borrowing.”
“Your mother is a master of
artifice,” he replied. “I never
cease to marvel at her cunning.
And how has this latest miracle
been accomplished?”
“I do wish, Ralph, you would
see that man again about those
blinds. He’s very unsatisfactory.
I. ~ ”
She was interrupted by an
urgent knocking. “Mr. Merson.
Come quick. Ma’s had a terrible
bad turn. She’s alluva heap at
the back-steps and we can’t
haulerup. And kin we have-
aloanuva drop of brandy?”
“Ralph!”
“I can’t leave the woman out
in the backyard,” protested Mr.
Merson, “There’s a westerly.”
“She won’t be there long
enough to get cold, I can tell
yom”
“Well, you come up and see
there’s fair play and no
advantage ’ taken,” commented
her husband dryly.
“Ralph! ” she breathed,
shocked. He took no notice of
her, and opened the back-door.
“Just a moment. Harry, isn’t
it? I’ll just get the brandy, lad.
And Mrs. Merson is coming in
case your mother needs some
attention.”
“The girls . . . someone must
stay with the girls,” she
mumbled, staring first at the
stove, then at the sink. “I don't
feel well enough... that hi 11...
it’s . . . You’ll have to go by
yourself, if you must go.”
“Oh, yes. I must go. Where’s
my charger? I mean where’s the
torch? I won’t be long. Sir
Galahad to the rescue! ”
“Let me go, too,” cried Miriel.
“Me, too,” insisted Lorraine.
Their mother said in a faraway
voice. “The washing-up will be
waiting for you. Don’t think
I’m going to do your work for
you just because you want to
make fools of yourselves.”
When they returned she was
SOLDIER’S PAY
(One Daric)
Stand upon a sword-point,
Wear your cap askew.
Down quicksilver corridors
View recedes on view;
The living and the dying
On one footing join;
Yet still as bright as Saturday
The face upon the coin.
Present at the pay-tent
And when the wine is on;
Absent from the roll-call
After the fighting’s done.
They earn a Grecian image—
Is it cheap or dear?—
Who hold their fortune in
their palm
And toss it in the air.
A.C.T.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


REPAIR BILLS
—' rHARRIS-
B» wW
o« »-
cut
'A
«4
&d-
7U
on your
worn-out tractor,
Farming is a business you can’t
afford losses through inefficiency. Making do
with out-of-date equipment is false economy. You’ll get
far richer rewards for your labour if you invest in a Nuffield Universal
the one tractor that has everything, does everything! Complete
with 6-way power power take-off, swinging drawbar, belt pulley,
hydraulic lift, two hydraulic tapping points, and full electrical
equipment, the Nuffield Tractor does
everything a 10-horse team will do
and more, effortlessly, and with
year-round reliability and economy.
You// Save
Make More Money
WITH A
TRACTOR
... the last word in
efficient Tractor design
DISTRIBUTORS — 0
New South Waies: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria: KELLOW-
FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS LIMITED. South
Australia; KINGSWAY LIMITED. Western Australia: PARK LANE
MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD. _
MHAW
ON-THE-JOB SERVICE, GENUINE SPARE PARTS
AND IMPLEMENTS ARE AVAILABLE FROM
AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DEALERS THROUGHOUT
THE COMMONWEALTH.
DEALER
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., VICTORIA PARK, ZETLAND, N.S.W.
sitting in her easy-chair, listen-
ing to one of her radio-serials.
Bursting into the room, Miriel
cried “She was really and truly
down the back-steps and she was
moaning and ...”
“Just close the door when you
start washing-up. I’m busy
listening.” She bent towards the
radio and, sitting thus, her eyes
roving aimlessly, her lips partly
opened, she looked hypnotised.
Miriel, crestfallen, closed the
door softly.
A FTER that night the Pellys
started coming down in the
evening or during the weekends
to borrow. Sometimes they
would arrive before Mr. Merson
had locked the garage-doors, or
they would lob on the road from
the high embankment as his car
rolled round the corner, yelling
out “Ma says willy’lendus.”
Mrs. Merson made no com-
plaint as she watched him ladle-
out commodities into cracked
cups or crumpled paper-bags.
She no longer protested against
the dispensing of brandy. Her
only reprisal was the purchase of
several expensive outfits, and a
refurnishing of the sun-room.
She also left in conspicuous dis-
play several washing-machine
advertisements.
One evening Mr. Merson
remarked brightly “Well, Glad,
I see you’re hankering after a
washing-machine.”
He read through the advertise-
ments, puffing as his pipe.
“What wonderful machines,”
he said at last, scratching at his
temple with the pipe-stem. “And
all so reasonable. It might be a,
good idea to get two different
makes. You could hire one out,
and it’d pay for the two in no
time. v You buy a few seats and
set them up in the bush-house for
the customers. You needn’t even
bother to operate them. They’re
foolproof, pretty near, I bet I
could manage them. One of the
girls could do all the business
after school. Be good pocket-
money for her. You could pay
her a sort of commission.”
With unexpected tartness his
wife replied “But you couldn’t
lend it to Mrs. Felly. It has to
be bolted in cement.”
He puffed hard at his pipe, the
long space above his upper-lip
pouching out with air. At last
he said in a stern voice “Then
that’s the end of that, isn’t it?
We can’t possibly consider it.”
He qrumpled up the ads and
threw them on to the table. He
picked up the evening paper.
She started to tremble with a
violent anger, because she
realised that for some inexplic-
able reason he intended to thwart
her wishes. This was a great
shock to her. Everything she had
ever . asked for, directly or
indirectly, he had given eventu-
ally without complaint. He had
been a thoughtful helper in the
house when the children were
small, and even now he
pleasantly performed a multitude
of tasks. He bore her strange
vagueness with never-failing
good-humor ; and when she was
ill he took over the running of
the household with competence.
All this she had accepted as
her own especial right, never
realising that the indulgent kind-
ness sprang from his amiable
nature: and now, although she
know quite definitely that he had
no romantic interest in Mrs.
Felly whatsoever, and that in any
case such a bony mopstick could
arouse .pity only in most men,
she bitterly resented that he
should include such a creature in
his bounty. After years of
accepting his goodness as a
homage to her alone, it was
now revealed to her (although
even now she wasn’t willing to
fully accept the evidence) that
he would have behaved in this
way to any woman selfish
enoughj;o make such demands.
Maliciously, she said “It’s to
be hoped her husband comes
home soon, or people’ll be talk-
ing about you.”
His lips spread slowly in a
quiet smile. He did not lift his
eyes from the paper as he said
“Didn’t I tell you? He’ll be
home in a fortnight. That’s why
she had her last turn. She was
so overjoyed when she read the
news she came over all queer.
There’s no doubt you women
have the knack of making the
simplest affair a snarl of com-
plexity.”
She cried “What else did she
tell you that you haven’t told
me? You’re always up there.”
He laughed outright. “You’re
in a very bad mood tonight.
Glad. There’s no way of pleas-
ing you.” He laid the paper to
one side. “In fact,” he con-
tinued, and he was now serious,
“you have been in a very poo ! '
humor for months. Ever since
we moved. You wanted this
terrace and the house, and you
gave me no peace till I had it
built. Yet ever since we’ve
moved-in my life has been a
misery.”
“That’s your fault with the
ridiculous attitude you’ve taken
about that woman and her
dreadful borrowing.”
He reached for the paper,
sighing, “My dear Glad,” he
said somewhat miserably. “If
there is any fault it has had birth
in your parsimonious soul.”
She had lived comfortably for
so many years in a mental fog
that it was difficult for her to
concentrate for more than a few
minutes on any conversation,
and even now at this time of
great distress she wandered off as
soon as he forsook simple
language. She moved aimlessly
about the room, plumping up
cushions and fiddling with
flowers.
“Mr. Hosking could surely get
rid of them. They’re ruining
that house. If you don’t ask
him, I will. He was most helpful
to me about those azaleas. I
must tell him how well that lilac
has grown. What a shame he
doesn’t shave every day. So
untidy. Mrs. Hosking should
see to it.”
“Save yourself the trouble.
Glad. Mrs. P. says they’ll be
shifting as soon as Mr. P. has a
bit of a holiday. He’s got a
house lined up for them right on
a job he’s taken.”
Several lines were instantly
erased from her face. Glancing
at her, he was startled to see a
fleeting resemblance to the sweet
but empty face he had become
infatuated with in his questing
youth. Almost instantly the
fretful lines fell back into place,
and she wailed “Why didn’t you
tell me before? You just don’t
care how I worry or what I have
to put up with.”
“My dear Glad, 1 did tell you
some time ago that they had
hopes.”
As she walked towards the
bathroom he heard her rambling
on “That’s the worst of men . . .
and I must remind you to ask
Hodgkins about a demonstration.
It’d be cheaper in the long run
than sending it in to the laundry.
And they get such a yellow look.
It’s all Lily’s fault I didn’t get
one when the house was being
built because she said she
wouldn’t have one as a gift, and
now she has and there’s nothing
wrong with it. It’s all very
annoying. And you weren’t very
helpful. As usual you left all
the deciding to me, and now I
have to put up with having all
the laundry turned upside-down.
And I’ll see about terms if you
won’t be nice about it. You care
more about Mrs. Felly’s turns
than about my insides.”
MRS. FELLY had two turns
before her husband arrived
home. After the second one, Mr.
Merson remarked there was just
enough left in the bottle for one
more “turn.” He said “I’d like
to see her finish off the bottle.
She’s done a good job, and she
might as well .complete it.”
“Why, aren’t you going to get
another bottle?” asked Miriel.
“You always say we should have
brandy in the house for
emergencies.”
“We can’t afford emergencies
and washing-machines,” com-
mented her father. “Even if we
do get them on time-payment.
No, we’ll just have to trust to
pot-luck.”
Mrs. Merson said “There’s no
reason why we can’t keep that
little bit. It’ll do us for years.
It’s quite stupid how she’s been
allowed to practically drain that
bottle. And I think you’re being
very nasty and stubborn about
the washing-machine.” She took
the bottle and glued her eyes on
the shallow pool of amber
murmuring “Yes, it’s certainly
ridiculous.”
Her voice trailed off, and it
was not made clear whether it
was the brandy question or the
washing-machine struggle whicn
was ridiculous. There was only
one thing which was obvious, and
that was a smirk of satisfaction
which lingered on her lips.
Mr. Merson remembered this
smile a fortnight later when the
cry came for brandy, in the
shape of the usual small Felly
child, and he went to the cup-
board to find the bottle gone.
“Glad,” he cried out, “where’s
the brandy?”
She came into the kitchen,
somewhat flurried, but securely
protected from questioning by
her wilful dormancy. “Now
where is it? Oh, yes. So I did.
There was such a little it hardly
burned at all. It really wasn’t
enough to do me any good.
There wasn’t enough, I’m sure,
for anyone who was used to tak-
ing it. And will you please come
in and look at the wireless? It’s
going all funny. Do shut that
door, Harry.” She wandered
back into the lounge.
An ironic amusement came
into Mr. Merson’s eyes. “Well,”
he said turning to the anxious
child, “there you are. It’s all
gone. Is your mother very bad?”
“It’s not Mum. It’s Dad.”
The child’s lips were trembling.
“He’s real bad, I think. I don’t
think it’s just an ordinary turn
like Ma’s,” he said with the
honesty that is innate in even the
most deceitful child when fear
isolates him from his environ-
ment. “He’s been sick, but he
don’t say much. And ...” He
began to cry. “Dad don’t have
turns.” He sniffled against his
sweater’s ravelled sleeve.
Mr. Merson said quietly “You
I run round to some of the others,
like a good chap, and see if you
can get any brandy and I’ll
phone the doctor and then go
straight up. Don’t you worry.
Everything will be all right. You
know brandy isn’t good for
some turns. Perhaps this is one
of that kind.” •
But everything was far from
being all right. Mr. Felly died
just before the doctor arrived.
When JMr. Merson arrived home
and told his wife she whispered
“Dead! But he can’t be ”
Mr. Merson, who had spent a
bad two hours with an hysterical
Mrs. Pelly before handing her
over to a sister, said sternly
“Now try to concentrate, Gladys,
for once on someone’s troubles.
Mr. Pelly is dead'. Please don’t
run on like a half-wit at a time
like this. I can’t put up with it
tonight.”
She began to cry in earnest.
“Anyone would think it was my
fault. After all it was our
brandy, I had a perfect right to
drink it.”
“And did I say anything to the
contrary?” he demanded. “Any-
rate, he might have died in any
case. Of course the doctor can’t
say definitely whether it would
have helped or not, but it appears
it was the type of heart-attack
which responds to stimulants. ’
Her wits sharpened by shock,
Mrs. Merson pounced on this
fragment. “Who asked him
would it have helped?”
“Now, Glad, I suppose you’ll
have to know, but I didn’t want
to talk about it tonight. Mrs.
Pelly blames us because we were
out of brandy. But for heaven’s
sake ...”
“But she drank it all!”
shrieked Mrs. Merson. “If any-
one is responsible for there not
being any brandy in the district
it is her. If she says anything to
me I’ll tell her so. You’ve been
too soft . . . I’ll tell her.”
Her voice dwindled slowly to
her rambling monotone, “You
let her go on and on. I can just
see you. And you probably even
let her blame me. I’ll be glad
to see the last of her. And I
don’t care what you say, the
poor man is probably better off
dead than married to that
woman.”
MR. MERSON flopped down
resignedly on the bed and
began to take off his shoes. He
thought cynically, “I think I’ll Jet
someone else tell Glad the
Peliys aren’t moving, now.”
CANTICLE
Stillness and splendor of the night
When, after slow moonrise,
Swans beat their wings into the
height,
Seeking the brilliant eyes
Of water, where the ponds and
lakes
Look upward asi the landscape
wakes.
The loved one, turning to her
lover.
Splendid, awake, and still.
Receives as the wild swans go
over
The deep pulse of love’s will.
She dies in her delight, and then
Renews her tender love again.
Where fragrant irises disclose
A kingdom to the sense,
The ceremony of pleasure goes
With stately precedence;
Like rich brocade it gleams and
glooms
Through the heart’s dim presence-
rooms.
The wagtail in the myrtle-tree
Who cannot sleep for love
Sings all night long insistently
As if his song could prove
What wisdom whispered from the
start,
That only love can fill the heart.
He sang under the boughs of
youth.
Through twisted shadowed years;
He sings in this clear night of
truth,
And now my spirit hears;
And sees, when beating wings
have gone,
The lucid outline of the Swan.
N.S.W.
JAMES McAULEY.


11l
HilElllHlllßiilflifif
5?
a
Iktß Mnthj
yoiill ie,
[fttiiui to-
M.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: TOOTH & CO.
m
■
■ v
■ •.
I
■ ■'#
f
P3O
ADA
and
ELSIE
ARE
BACK!
Yes, those two old-fashioned girls Ada and Elsie are back again in the funniest, happiest show you’ve
heard in years Cadbury Show. Compered by leading Sydney radio personality Eric Parrant,
The Cadbury Show also features the brilliant new comedian Frank Strain and charming actress
Audrey Teasdale. And each week outstanding singers will sing some of the most popular songs
ever written—just for you!
Make this perfect half-hour show a
y night listening “must”—and
chuckle as you’ve never chuckled
before with
ADA AND ELSIE
Produced and presented for the makers of
Cadbury’s famous chocolate by The
Macquarie Broadcasting Service.
fate' '*
li ' :
mm
:#|< /, wM'k y
ilwliiwi
S
•- : - '• - }yf,;y ■:
2GB 2HR 2CA 2WL 2MW 2LT 3AW 3CV 4BH SDN 6IX 6WB 6MD 6BY 7HO 7LA
and 23 other commercial! stations throughout Australia
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Is Divorce.
TO RAYMOND GORDON late of Gun-
ning', in the State of New South Wales.—
TAKE NOTICE that CATHERINE
NARELLE GORDON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4841 of 1952 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish' to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 24th day
of April 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from M. B.
GILES, Solicitor, of No. 29 Blight Streei,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JAMES MURTLAND CRAIG late of
32 King Street Waverton. —TAKE NOTICE
that EDNA MAY CRAIG has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2532 of 1948 on
the grounds of your adultery and deser-
tion for three years and upwards without
just cUuse or excuse If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 10th April 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from HILLIARD & BERRY,
Solicitors, 17 Castlcreagh Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy books by J. Brierley. —
5436.
To buy copy of book As Ye Sow. —
5438.
Words of verse beginning: —
It .was Finn of Womberall,
Who went out with Pat McCall
Cutting timber on the ridges
Where a goat could hardly crawl.
—5437.
Information Sought
Is a percentage of potassium-
permanganate ( Condy’s-crystal ) put in
all tea marketed in N.S.W. ?
No. Tea sold in N.S.W. must
conform to the standard prescribed
by Regulation 31 of the N.S.W. Pure
Food Act, 1908. This regulation
says: “Tea is the leaves and leaf-
buds of species of tea prepared by
fermenting and drying or firing. It
shall not contain any exhausted or
partly exhausted leaves, nor any
foreign matter, and it shall not be
inferior in composition or in quality
to the standard fixed by the Minister
for Trade and Customs under the
provisions of the Commonwealth
Customs Act, for the time being in
force.”
* * * *
(1) Was boxer Peter Jackson an
Australian, where was he born, and
when did he die? (2) Did Jackson
ever win the world’s heavyweight
championship, and yvhat were his out-
standing contests?
(1) Peter Jackson was a West
Indian, born at St. Croix on July 3,
1861, and came to Australia in his
teens. He began boxing at Larry
Foley’s arena in 1883. Jackson died
of tuberculosis at Roma (Q.), on July
13, 1901. (2) He won the Australian
heavyweight championship by beat-
ing Tom Lees in 30 rounds at Larry
Foley’s White Horse gymnasium
(Sydney) on December 25, 1886.
Jackson then went to America, but
John L. Sullivan drew the color-line, •
and refused to fight Jackson under
championship conditions. Outstand-
ing contests in his career were a 61-
rounds draw with James,!. Corbett
at San Francisco on May 21, 1891,
and when he -k.o.’d Frank Slavin
(round 10) in London on May 30,
1892.
* * * »
(1) Are civilians or soldiers per-
mitted to wear the medals and decora-
tions of deceased parents? (2) If so,
at what times?
(1) The R.S.S.AJ.L.A. rules that
decorations and medals may be worn
only by the persons on whom they
were conferred, and that in no case
does the right to wear them or their
ribands devolve upon the widow, son
or other relative when the recipient
is dead. Similarly,, when a post-
humous award is made and the medal
or decoration is handed to the next-
of-kin, it may not be worn. (2)
Relaxation of the rules is permitted
only in connection with Armistice and
Anzac Day ceremonies, when relatives
may wear medals and decorations on
the right breast.
* * * *
Who was Lucullus, whose name
seems to be associated with luxury?
He was a Roman general, born
about 110 b.c., most of whose fight-
ing was done in the wars against
Mithridates, King of Pontus. In one
action he led a Roman fleet, and won
a sea-action off Tenedos. In an
interval of peace Lucullus held various
administrative posts, including that
of consul (74 b.c.). When war with
Mithridates again broke out, Lucullus
was put in charge of the Roman
army, and invaded Pontus, but,
because of his strict discipline and
moderation after victory, he became
very unpopular with the army. When
on the point of completely crushing
Mithridates, his army mutinied, and
Lucullus was recalled. (It was Pompey
who eventually conquered Pontus.)
On returning to Rome he was attacked
by the popular party, so, being then
very rich, and disgusted with politics,
he retired into “that elegant leisure,
that luxury refined by good taste,
tempered by philosophy, for which
he has become proverbial.” He had
a huge library, and ,wrote a history
in Greek. He died 56 b.c.
Brief Answers
L.E.: Yes, you can obtain copies
of the Commonwealth Parliamentary
Debates (Hansard) by subscription;
price is 6s. per year. Subscriptions
should be sent to the Government
Printer, Canberra, A.C.T V.M.:
See “Current Affairs Bulletin," VoL
5, No. 11, published by the Common-
wealth Office of Education, Grace
Building, York-street, Sydney
R.K.A.: England and New Zealand
have played 19 cricket matches.
England has won four matches, New
Zealand none, and 15 matches have
been drawn... .S.D.M.: The James
Tait Black Memorial Prize for the
best novel published in 1951 was
awarded to C. W. Chapman Mortimer
for Father Goose. The biography
prize was awarded to Noel Annan
for his Leslie Stephen. The Heine-
mann Foundation awards for 1951
were made to Geoffrey Winthrop
Young for his Mountains with a Dif-
ference and to Nicholas Monsarrat
for his Cruel Sea K.A.S.: The
liability of the motorist in the circum-
stances you mention is based on
negligence, and if the hitchhiker
signed a note specifically absolving
the motorist from all liability for
damages and claims of every sort,
including negligence, the motorist
would be free of the danger of being
successfully sued M.T.: Dualism
is a philosophical system that recog-
nises two ultimate and independent
principles in the scheme of things,
such as mind and matter, or good
and evil. It is opposed to idealism
and materialism J.C.: The song
“Home, Sweet Home” was written
by Howard Payne, an American
dramatist and song-writer. It formed
part originally of the opera “Clari.”
The music is by Sir Henry Rowley
Bishop... .E.R.: The Parnassian
School was the pame given to a group
of French romantic poets of the
latter half of the 19th-century, from
the title, Le Parnasse Contemporain,
of three collections of their poems
published in 1866-1876. They include
Catulle Mendes, Mallarme, Verlaine,
Sully Prudhomme, etc P.McC.:
Write Department of Agriculture and
Stock, Brisbane, for Division of
Animal Industry Pamphlet No. 5,
“Bacon Curing on the Farm,” by F.
Bostock R.B.J.: G. M. Smith
wrote under the name “Steele Grey”
and published one book of verse,
The Days of Cobb and Co., in 1906.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
N J.: Try it on the editor of your
parish magazine C.J.A.: Poem
inspired by a beer-strike won’t earn
you even the price of a schooner.
F.O.R.: Leap-year verse arrived
too late. Put it aside until 1956
C.H.: We dare say that there is a
point to that dull tale, but we were
unable to stumble upon it....G.A.:
Sorry, no crumbs for your stool-
pigeon. .. .P.F.8.; You let the cat
out of the bag in the first page....
F.L.: There is too much beating
about the bush before the story really
begins 8.F.: “Homeward Bound”
is homeward bound N.W.: You
stop too often to admire the scenery.
A.C.: A slapdash effort—
H.P.G.8.: We soon checkmated that
mad chess-player.... R.N.A.: Too
sentimental for us R.F.: When
last heard “The Talkative Wife” was
muttering to herself in the basket.
....A.A.: At the most “A Tall
Story” is only worth paragraph
space G. 8.: Too many words for
so slight an incident A.F.F.: At
no time do any of your characters
come to life... .N.H.8.: In what
Australian pub does the barmaid
keep a gun parked under the counter?
D.D.: It belongs to a past age.
T.J. : You appear to think that
the aim of • a story-writer should be
to provide a corpse for every para-
graph H.S.: The merry widow is a
little too merry for this sedate journal.


GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
AIL-BRITISH
THE POPULAR PEN
with tho
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Lt«U
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne ond frydney___
KllV mom
SANDERS
FILES
Correspondence. Invoice*,
statements etc., filed In the
'"Sanders" can be securely rrl|n ma j l, r .
bound and converted Into a th«r lefermsttee
perfect book of reference oi epos sppiisstleo
the end of each month —or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Lta
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agemm—
MELBOURNE .. Noman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00, (Aust)
f
Australian Historical Sketches
Cook—Greatest Of All
By M. H. ELLIS
“7* HERE can be no Aus-
S tralian born who has not
C J heard of Captain James
Cook, but there are few
who know much about him. His
standard biography by Hugh
Carrington is out of print. His
journals, the first of them
mutilated by Hawkesworth, have
never been published unedited,
and even the edited ones of the
first editions are collectors’-pieces
of great value. An attempt to
buy a cheap comprehensive
book on the captain’s voyages
and life failed in Sydney last
week.
liie Mitchell Library includes
some of the most important
journals of his voyages, including
the “Corner. Copy” made by the
ship’s clerk, Richard Orton,
almost exactly from Cook’s own
journal of the Endeavour
voyage, and sent from Batavia
to the Admiralty when the ship
reached there in 1770; also
Banks’s journal; August, 1768-
July, 1771. These are two of
the most valuable documents in
the Commonwealth. But not a
great number of people have
leafed through them.
+ +
For the average reader there
has been nothing buyable and
worth while on Cook printed in
recent years save the selections
from his voyages issued by the
Cresset Library in 1949 and
edited by Mr. Christopher Lloyd,
a senior lecturer at Greenwich
Naval College, who knows as
much about Cook as any man
living.
Two years from now Cook’s
journals, in his own unabridged
words, are to be published for
the first time by the Hakluyt
Society.
Meantime Mr. Lloyd is issuing
a short, cheap and concise
biography. Captain Cook, by
Christopher Lloyd (Faber and
Faber), which might with
advantage be made a standard
school-book in Australia, though
it won’t be. It contains every-
thing of importance that can be
said about the hero, who is
essentially right as a subject for
-.schoolboy admiration. He was
the perfect adventurer. There
are no dark and secret spots in
his record. Behind the heroic
fafades of Drake and Raleigh
there is a certain amount of
greed and unworthiness.
Nothing sullies the record of
Cook, unless it is an overhelp-
ing of perfection.
He was tall and handsome,
which few real heroes are.
He was intelligent, fearless,
courteous and industrious. He
had the faculty of earning the
affection of men, and yet the
will and capacity to keep himself
aloof and in a position to
command. He was dour. His
discipline was rigid. In fact, in
most respects he very much
resembled a hero of much later
Australian times Major-
General Bridges, maker of
Duntroon and moulder of the
First A.1.F., who, fearless as
Cook himself, died in the
trenches of Gallipoli.
Both were Scottish in origin.
Bridges was born in Greenock.
Cook, though fathered in York-
shire and apparently from a
Yorkshire mother, had a
Scottish father who seems to
have been a laborer from Rox-
burghshire. The Cooks, inci-
dentally, are a sept of Clan
Stewart.
The most singular thing about
Cook’s record is the obscurity of
his beginnings. He was born
into a family of nine. His life is
completely undocumented until
he turned up as a’ shop-assistant
in the little seaside village of
Staithes, A year later he was
serving in the coastal collier
Freelove. He somehow taught
himself to read, and to write
more than a passable hand. He
learned mathematics to a point
at which he qualified to become
one of the world's finest
navigators.
He was 28 before he got away
from the coastal trade ; but there
was nothing like the English
coastal trade to make deep-sea
navigators. Drake learned his
trade in the same school. Sailors
of the English shores who were
not careful and did not possess
a sixth sense to tell them where
shoals were and to read weather
in advance soon ended as guests
of Davy Jones.
Cook, then, at 28, went into
the Navy as an A. 8., apparently
not because he wanted to but
because it seemed inevitable that
he would soon be collared by a
pressgang and inducted by mam
force.
That was in 1756, and he had
the good luck to go into the
Eagle, a fourth-rate with 60 guns,
under no less a man than Sir
Hugh Palliser.
He soon became master’s mate
—a sort of man-of-all-work,
attending to stowage, caring for
rigging, keeping a log, observing
the coastline, in charge of all
navigational instruments. He
camped in a hammock on the
mess-deck in a space so low that
he must always walk stooped.
At 31 he was master of the
Pembroke (64 guns) in Saunders’s
Fleet in the St. Lawrence, and it
was there that his career began.
He' was employed to buoy the
river for the fleet, which came up
with Wolfe to attack Montcalm,
and the chart which he made
advtnced him at one step to the
status of “the most skilful
navigator in the Navy.”
He was employed in the next
few years mainly in a small
schooner surveying the coasts
of Newfoundland and adjacent
waters. At 40 he was unknown
outside the Service, which had a
great respect for his charts pub-
lished in The Atlantic Pilot, and
the Royal Society, which had
published an account he wrote
of an eclipse of the sun, in the
preface to which he was
described as “a good mathema-
tician, very expert in his busi-
ness.”
He had seen little adventure
out of the ordinary run, and he
was still a non-commissioned
officer when he was chosen to
command the expedition
petitioned for by the Royal
Society to observe a transit of
Venus from Tahiti and determine
whether there was, in fact, a
great southern continent, as
various romantic geographers
averred, a job which involved
circumnavigating the world for
the first time in the mostly
unknown southern latitudes.
It was typical of the man that
he chose for the job the
Endeavour, late Earl of Pem-
broke, a coastal collier. She was
370 tons, bluff-bowed and deep-
waisted, 105 ft. long, or less than
a third of the length of a small
modern destroyer, and only
29ft. 3in. in the beam. In her
tie had to deal with 84 men rang-
ing from Sir Joseph Banks, the
young, rich dilettante, apt to be
domineering. Dr. Solander, a
favorite pupil of Linnaeus, a
couple of temperamental artists
and a normal mixed crew plus
some livestock.
His vessel was unsheathed.
She had no conveniences and no
real privacy. In her he pioneered
the prevention of scurvy, forcing
his sauerkraut and wort on his
sailors with the encouragement
of the cat-o’-nine-tails when they
refused to take it otherwise.
From her he landed the first
white men to set foot in New
Zealand, and took possession of
that country in the face of the
fierceness of the cannibal
Maoris (who, on the subsequent
voyage, ate a boat’s-crew off his
consort ship).
From there he sailed to the
Australian coast, discovered
Botany Bay, named Port
Jackson, without seeing its inside,
charted the eastern shore all the
way to Cape York, daring the
reefs on which she eventually
landed, with the result that he
and his crew, careening their
little vessel at Cooktown, were
the first white men to dwell for
any length of time on Australian
continental soil and the first to
sketch its curious denizens,
including the kangaroo.
+ +
Then, leaking and endangered
by reef and weather, they made
their way through the tortuous
and shark-infested channels off
the peninsula, and through
Torres Strait, but not before
their eyes had been the first to
see Cape York and they had
landed on Possession Island,
which he named to the rolling of
musketry as he formally raised
the flag to acquire the 2000 miles
of coast which they had charted.
He had, among other things,
named New South Wales.
Now, with his ship’s canvas
rotten, her timbers leaking and
worm-eaten, so that it was a
surprise how she kept above
water, and his rations mouldy,
he made his way direct to
Batavia, the first civilised port he
had seen for two years, to heave-
down and repair.
He had lost only eight men on
the voyage, not one from scurvy,
and had not a sick man on board
the Endeavour. She was so
badly wracked and rotted indeed
that it took two months to repair
her.
It was ironic that civilisation
reduced his vessel to the condi-
tion of a hospital-ship with the
Batavian scourges, dysentery and
malaria. By the time they
reached England the only man
who had not been sick was the
70-year-old sailmaker, who was
“generally more or less drunk
every day.” Half their number
had perished, some little caring,
for their gear had become so
rotten by the time “we ran
briskly up the Channel and
anchored in the Downs” in mid-
July, 1771, that few of them had
expected to see England.
They found themselves famous
indeed, to the last man and
animal. Dr. Johnson even wrote
an epigram about the ship’s goat
which had travelled twice round
the world, but which “ease and
perpetual pasture now has
found.”
The second voyage, with the
Resolution (462 tons) and Adven-
ture (330 tons), was more
remarkable than the first; for,
though some of the men on the
Adventure under Furneaux got
themselves eaten through their
unwariness in New Zealand, and
that vessel came home a year
before the Resolution, which
Cook commanded in person.
Cook himself had broken all
records in exploration and in
length of time of voyage and in
shipmastery.
He had sailed about 60,000
miles, over three times the
circumference of the globe,
before he put into Cape Town
for refit, to replace everything
but the standing rigging. He
had been at sea three years, a
record for all time in sailing-
ships, yet not a single mast or
yard had sprung.
He had become the first
captain to • sail below the
Antarctic Circle. He had made
the whole round of the Central
Pacific, to places unvisited, or
visited only by chance some times
200 years agone, and he had
come home with accurate infor-
mation about them all never
known before —about the New
Hebrides, the Friendly Islands of
Tonga, which he named, the
Society Islands of Tahiti, the
Marquesas, Easter Island and
again New Zealand. He had
landed in Tierra del Fuego. He
himself had been at home only
a year in seven with his quiet
wife, Elizabeth Batts (who died
in 1835, aged 95), and his two
boys in Mile End-road in South
London.
Above all, he had changed the
whole world system of naviga-
tion by his proof of the efficacy
of chronometers.
On his next and last voyage,
with the Discovery for consort,
he landed to stroll through
fertile meadows in Tasmania and
his officers gave a naked lady-
clothes. They scoured up the
coast of California and Canada
by Nootka Sound. They left the
name Cook on a river into which
they sailed on the Canadian
coast,'and they took possession
of Alaska before they penetrated
into Behring Strait beyond the
Arctic Circle in the latitude of
Cape North and Icy Cape in
their search for the fabled
North-west Passage.
And to their sorrow and that
of posterity they discovered
Hawaii, which Cook named the
Sandwich Islands, after his
patron, Lord Sandwich. For
there Cook died under the hand
of an assassin, on the first
occasion on which his coolness
deserted him in multitudinous
contacts with savages.
It yyas a stupid, hysterical
affair. The Hawaiians had taken
him on his first visit for a return-
ing god, but on his second the
myth was exploded, and thieving
and treachery in return for kind-
ness produced a crisis. Out of
bis long experience Cook
believed that the crowds gathered
on the shore “would not stand
the fire of a single musket,” and
be would hearken to no advice
to the contrary. He went ashore
to follow his usual practice when
there was major theft —to take a
friendly hostage and hold him
till the stolen goods were
returned, in this case a ship’s
cutter. With him went his
double-barrelled shotgun, one
barrel loaded with small shot to
hurt, the other with ball to kill.
Two boats went with him
ashore: the pinnace, commanded
by Roberts, the Resolution’s
master, and the launch, com-
manded by Lieutenant William-
son. Making his way fearlessly
ashore Cook strode to the hut of
the chieftain and asked him
aboard the ship to dine. The
chief heartily agreed to come,
but when they came near the
boats one of his favorite wives
forced her way through the
crowd and fell on her knees beg-
ging him not to go. She threw
her arms round him and the
crowd surged forward, pressing
the marine guard so that they
could not use their arms. Their
commander, Phillips, wished to
form them on the water’s edge
so as to secure a retreat, but
Cook said there was no danger.
He stood 25yds. from them, gun
in hand, trying to persuade the
chief to corns with him, but by
this time the old man was sitting
on the ground while the natives
crowded round shouting insults
at the captain.
One tried to throw a bread-
fruit in his face. Cook punched
him. Things had begun to look
ugly, and Cook had decided to
leave, when suddenly there burst
through the crowd an excited
native shouting that a party
under Lieutenant King had
fired on some canoes on the other
side of the bay and killed some-
body. Immediately pande-
monium broke loose. Stones
were collected, war-mats donned.
Cook wj« hustled by a mob wav-
ing clubs and spears. He called
to Phillips: “Take to the boats,”
These were his last recorded
words.
He had had to turn his back
on the savages for the first time
in order to call to Phillips. That
was the signal for matters to get
out of hand. Somebody raised a
long dagger. Cook fired his
small-shot barrel, but it could
not penetrate a war-mat. Hs
fired his ball charge and killed
a man.
The marines, coming to his
rescue, were driven back by a
shower of stones. The boats’-
crews could not fire because
they must have killed the
marines, who screened the
crowd. Williamson, who com-
manded the launch, and who
years later was cashiered for
cowardice at Copenhagen,
obviously ran away when he
might have effected a rescue by
landing, when Cook, who was
struggling to reach the beach,
called to him to come closer.
He said he mistook the order.
The pinnace came as close as
rocks would allow, but too late.
Cook seemed to be struck by a
club and stabbed between the
shoulders, and then all sight of
him was lost as the crowd surged
over him and tore his corpse to
pieces in a frenzy of bloodlust.
The tragedy seems to have
resulted not from any premedi-
tated plan, but, as Mr. Lloyd
writes, was “simply the dramatic
climax of a chain of trivial
accidents and misunderstand-
ings.”
+ 4-
Cook, adjudged the greatest of
all sea explorers, died like
Magellan covering the retreat of
his men.
He left behind a worthy school
of adventurers, including Van-
couver and Bligh, who had
trained under him. But he
missed the natural climax of his
destiny. For had he lived he
would almost certainly have been
the first Governor of Australia
and its founder as a nation,
instead of Phillip.
A memory of him survives in
the Hawaiian flag, which
embodies the Union Jack.


f 1
hh
m
WITiL PALMOLIVE BRILLIANTINE
FOR THAT NEWLY BARBERED LOOK
A touch of Palmolive Brilliantine, a
flick of the comb, and your hair is
neat and tidy for the day. You
will have no more worry about
that "plastered-down” look. Palmolive
Brilliantine is a light, delightful oil
that gives the hair a light gloss, and
puts you at the head of the well-
groomed men!
PALMOLIVE
BRILLIANTINE
For That Successful
Well-groomed Look
PB2/120
sdf
ds
fds
SPORTING NOTIONS
Randwick and Moonee Valley
racing last Saturday provided the
curtain-raisers for the more
important autumn meetings in
Melbourne and Sydney. Mos
of the Sydney runners were
resuming after a spell; others
were having a second outing
since their summer rest, bu
Tarien proved herself fit and
Hydrogen showed he is right for
his next engagement, the nine-
furlongs St. George Stakes at
Caulfield next Saturday.
In Melbourne Ellerslie was too
solid for his younger opponent,
Flying Halo, in the C. F. Orr
Stakes (w.f.a.), and he will be a
strong opponent for the weight-
for-age horses up to a mile-and-
a-quarter. Randwick runners
besides Tarien to indicate readi-
ness for immediate engagements
in better-class events included
Bronze Peak, High Law, Bob
Cherry, Foreign Exchange anC
New Zealander Regoli. On the
other hand, speedsters Joy Lad
and Suncup ran much below
stable expectations. Both may
be better for the outing, but their
form was disappointing.
Stables sheltering big teams
regularly experience mixed luck
on race-day, and the more horses
in the establishment the more
frequent the prospect of a
surprise result. This happened to
followers of the T. J. Smith
stable at Randwick. Smith
saddled about a dozen horses,
some not quite ready, and not in
the betting. One of the neglected
ones, however—the handsome
two-year-old colt Castillo, owned
by E. R. Williams —had an easy
win at 50 to 1 in the Juvenile
Novice. A few odd bets were
set at 100 to 1. Castillo, a
2400gns. yearling, improved
sharply on two prior runs, but,
of course, that is always on the
cards.
• • * •
Though owner E. R. Williams
probably didn’t benefit much
beyond the stake when Castillo
won the Juvenile, he should have
been happy over the grand run
put up by his four-year-old
Hydrogen, fourth to speedy
Tarien. Hydrogen carried 9.3,
but wasn’t suited by the six
furlongs. Ten were in front of
him at the home turn, but the
classic and weight-for-age per-
former then rattled home well.
Hydrogen’s meeting with Mel-
bourne Cup winner and New
Zealand champion Dalray should
be a highlight of the V.R.C.’s
autumn carnival. Also Hydrogen
has had backing for the Don-
caster, and maybe will be set
for the mile, in which he has 9.3.
He could be a strong contender.
The Smith stable had a hand-
some win on the imported mare
Tarien in the principal sprint, the
Bellevue Hill Handicap, her fifth
success this season. She figures
prominently in quotes for the
Doncaster, in which she has 7.10.
The Smith stable lost some of
the Tarien money when Blue
Whirl ran much below expecta-
tions in the Rose Bay Novice.
She beat one home in that mile-
and-a-quarter. Sea Sovereign
also was a costly loss for the
Stable in the Potts Point Handi-
cap. He ran third after a mishap
at the start. ?
Improving sharply on prior
displays, the Randwick-trained
Redeswood indicated staying
possibilities. The filly, a member
of E. D. (Peter) Lawson’s team,
earned a stake of £651; she cost
950gns. as a yearling. Raced
by G. R. Bryden, she is by
Delville Wood (imp.) from
Eternal City (imp.) by Epigram
from Fair City by Fairway, and
traces back to Cicero. Eternal
City didn’t race, but the family
lines include several winners in
England. A second foal, Redes-
wood belongs to the same family
as Swynford and Chaucer.
Former Brisbane mentor
Charlie McLoughlin was a
happy man at Randwick after
British Justice won the Rose
Bay Novice, the colt’s first win.
British Justice started favorite ;
he had shown promise, and it
was felt the bigger track at
Randwick would be to his liking.
Neville Sellwood also had a
change of luck. His spell of
about two weeks did him a lot
of good, and he signalised his
return to the saddle by scoring
on The Mall, raced by Mel-
bourne owners Sir Harold and
Lady Luxton. Maurice Mc-
Carten trains The Mall, and his
temporary run of ill-luck also
changed. Top-class horsemen
and leading trainers don’t stop
long out of the money.
\ • . . ,
Noel McGrowdie, whose wins
in distance events have been a
feature of his riding, especially
in the past few seasons, turned
down several Sydney mounts to
take the ride on Royal Radiant
in the Moonee Valley Keys-
borough Welter (13 furlongs).
Starting a warm favorite at
9 to 4, Royal Radiant could do
no better than fifth to Kings-
more, a disappointing display
for an Australian Cup fancy.
Cyklon King, runner-up, and
Vychan, third to consistent
Nealing in the Moonee Valley
Sturt Handicap for two-year-
olds, both have close relatives to
be offered at the Melbourne
yearling sales next month.
Cyklon King is by Lawrence
from Sweet Isa. His half-sister
by Hellespont (imp.) will be
offered on the second day of the
sales; Vychan’s half-brother,
also by Hellespont, will be
paraded on the opening day,
March 10. Vychan is by
Audentes (imp.) from Tudor
Princess, and is related to St.
Fairy and Prince o’ Fairies.
Sweet Isa, dam of Cyklon King,
is an Enfield (imp.) mare from
The Lady Isa by Cyklon (imp.).
Despite fair form and a win
three starts back, Nealing started
at 8 to 1 for the Sturt Handicap.
Cromis, favorite at 5 to 2, ran
fourth.
• • • •
Highlight of Melbourne racing
this coming Saturday will be the
Oakleigh Plate, 5i furlongs,
■shortest important handicap on
the Australian turf calendar.
Cultured may go well for Sydney
backers. Sydney-owned and
-trained San Domenico holds
the race time-record, I A}, made
in 1949 and still best for Aus-
tralia. It indicates the slicing-
down of times since Malua won
first of the series in 1884. A
grand galloper, and then a 4-
year-old, Malua took 1.11 to
cover the distance. It • was not
till 1915 (Brattle’s year) that 1.7
was clipped, and in 1933 Ibrani
got under 1.5. Of course gallop-
ing-rinks these days provide
much faster and sounder going
than when racing history was
being made in this country.
Among horses likely to make
their reappearance at Rosehill
this Saturday, and from whose
running some light may be
thrown on autumn prospects,
are Prince Dakhil, Salamanca,
Carioca, Blond Val, Prelate and
French Echo, all in the weights
for the Civic Handicap (6 fur-
longs). Others with recent form
also figuring in the weights in-
clude Forest Beau, Nagpuni and
Osborne, and another interest-
ing entrant is the speedy Port
Moonta. As Prince Dakhil is on
the second line of the Doncaster
betting-list and Carioca with
most ringmen shares first line,
it is possible a new favorite will
come to light for the mile.
Prince Dakhil has furnished
into a fine horse, and is expected
to be cherry-ripe by the time the
Doncaster comes round for deci-
sion. He seems an ideal miler,
and is nicely placed on 8.1. His
best win was in the Canterbury
Guineas. He also ran third to
Deep River and Plywood in the
A.J.C. Derby, but staying doesn’t
look part of his make-up.
Carioca, probably the most dis-
cussed horse of this season’s
racing, should indicate how far
forward he is in condition for
immediate engagements.
Betting market on the A.J.C.
Doncaster-Sydney Cup double
has taken further shape follow-
ing the racing last weekend.
The favorite pair for the mile,
Carioca and Raconteur, remain
at the head of the list, but on
the second line Tarien is now
sharing position with High Law
and Prince Dakhil. New Zea-
lander Red Jester is next, with
Pressman, Hydrogen and Bronze
Peak handy. Dalray is alone
at the top of the Cup table.
Carioca has eased slightly, but
is on his own on the second line
for the Cup. Peshawar and
Advocate are the only others
wanted at the moment by pun-
ters, but the market is listless.
One leading bookmaker has four
sharing favoritism for the Don-
caster.
• • • •
Sydney Turf Club included in
the racebook for its latest Can-
terbury meeting a complete
programme for the Flemington
fixture, starting-times, barrier-
positions, etc. The acceptors
were set out in bold easily-read
type. The innovation was favor-
ably commented on by punters
who bet a lot of money on Mel-
bourne events. The S.T.C. is to
continue the scheme whenever
there is room in racebooks for
the Melbourne programme, but
it cannot delete any feature or
other necessary details to make
room for inter-State acceptances.
Night trotting at Harold Park
(Sydney), conducted in a highly
efficient manner by the executive
of the N.S.W. Trotting Club, con-
tinues to attract huge crowds to
fixtures, which in turn helps to
swell stakemoney. At ordinary
fixtures £4200 is about the aver-
age prizemoney aggregate for
seven events, with one race sub-
sidised to extent of £BOO, while
on special carnival nights stakes
rise sharply to close on the
£lO,OOO aggregate; and at times
much higher for an outstanding
carnival. In one recent special-
event at Harold Park a £4OOO
stake was competed for and total
handout was £BB5O.
Melbourne’s annual sale of
thoroughbred yearlings will be
held on March 10, 12 and 13,
when 459 youngsters will be
auctioned. Lot 1 in the catalogue
is a filly from the same family
as the English Derby winner My
Love. She is by Voluntary
(imp.), whose oldest progeny are
now two-year-olds and is from
Gallant Act by Actor (imp.).
The bay filly half-sister to
Phoibos, a winner of the Caul-
field Guineas, the A.J.C. All-
Aged Stakes and other good
■ races, should command keen
competition. She is by Baturo
(imp.), whose oldest progeny are
now yearlings. Baturo, who won
races in England and France
from one mile to two miles, is
by Goya II from Peau d’Anne
by Dark Legend. His filly is
from Spanish Star by Gay
Lothario (imp,).
Interest lasted right up to the
end in the fifth Test, won by
S’Africa by six wickets, same
margin by which the West Indies
won the third Test last season,
in a somewhat similar finish.
With Australia piling-up 520 in
its first knock and having first
use of the wicket, it appeared to
have the game well and truly
won. The visitors fought back.
Behind 85 at the first change,
the S’African bowlers, Fuller and
Tayfield in particular, put their
side on the way to victory by
getting rid of Australia in their
second innings for 209. Their
batsmen were then equal to the
task ahead; they were models
of consistency—in both innings
every one reached double-figures
(except last man in, Fuller,
0 n. 0.). If one could be specially
singled out, it would be McLean.
For Australia there was Har-
vey’s double-century, two good
knocks from both Craig and
Morris (Craig scored exactly 100
runs), and a marathon bowling-
effort by Bill Johnston. Aust.
520 (Harvey 205, Morris 99,
Craig 53) and 209 (Craig 47;
Fuller 5-66); S. Africa 435
(Watkins 92, McLean 81,
Cheetham 66, Waite 64, Mansell
52 ; Johnston 6-152) and 4-297
(McLean 76 n. 0., Endean 70,
Watkins 50).
• • • •
Australia and S. Africa each
won two Tests, the other was
drawn. Australia thus hangs on
to the “ashes,” having won the
1949-50 series in South Africa.
The 17 to tour England this
year are: Hassett (Vic.), cap-
tain ; Morris (N.S.W.), vice-
captain ; Craig, Miller, Lindwall,
Benaud, Davidson, De Courcy
(N.S.W.); Harvey, Ring, John-
ston, C. McDonald, Hill (Vic.);
Langley, Hole (S.A.); Tallon, R.
Archer (Q.).
• • • •
There are seven from N.S.W.,
six from Victoria and two each
from S. Aus. and Q. (a pity one
place couldn’t go to a Wes-
tralian). N.S.W. has the best
representation, despite its not
having a selector—at the begin-
ning of the season most of the
pundits were suggesting that
N.S.W. players wouldn’t get a
fair deal.
Biggest outsider is St. Kilda
(Vic.) medium-pace spinner Jack
Hill. Tallon, also, though ’keep-
ing in top form all the year, is
perhaps a surprise selection-
many thought the selectors had
their eye on Victoria’s lan
McDonald. Two who played in
the current Tests missed out —
lan Johnson and Noblet.
S. Aus. beat N.S.W. in a game
which, largely because of rain,
went to only one innings each,
and S.A. now has an excellent
chance of taking out this year’s
Sheffield Shield. Only other pos-
sible is W.A., which must win
its two remaining games (against
S.A. and Vic.). A sixth-wicket
stand of 115 by colts Trowse and
Ducker, the ’keeper, helped S.A.
to victory. For N.S.W. 17-year-
old Simpson followed-up his fine
Shield debut against Vic. with
another good effort. N.S.W.
9-367, closed (Briggs 83, Simp-
son 69, Johnston 65; Manning
4-95); S.A. 416 (Trowse 102,
Dansie 89, Ducker 54, Pinch 52).
* * * *
Billed at Leichhardt for the
Australian bantam title, which
automatically became vacant
when Jimmy Carruthers won
Vic Toweel’s world title from
him in South Africa, the scrap
between Young Regan (8.5 i) and
Kevin James (8.5 f) wasn’t what
you’d call terrific. Bantam
James —sft. 10|in. long —is of
the southpaw persuasion, and
unorthodox with it; a combina-
tion that didn’t help any. In
fact, when Regan stopped him
in round 12 those present sighed
with relief, though Kevin’s the
Noo South champ, and the
Regan hails from south of the
border. For the statistical-
minded, the label of victory was
t.k.o.


Artists and Models
Rose Lindsay's Memoirs
NO episode in my life has
ever caused me so much
embarrassment as hav-
ing my little silk
chemise forcibly, but gently, re-
moved by Sydney Long. When
he peered around the screen in
his studio to inquire why I was
so long preparing to pose, after
he had shown me a charcoal
sketch, saying, “This is the pose
I want,” I had got down to my
shirt and sat dumbfounded.
I’d had no idea that I would
have to strip, and was contem-
plating making a bolt for it. He
smiled out of one side of his
mouth (the other side had a
large pipe in it) as he placed me
against a chest-of-drawers to
pose for the standing figure in
the “Flamingoes.”
The first half-hour was agony.
I was scared to move. The knob
of the chest bore into my back,
my neck was stiff and my legs
beginning to paralyse when he
told me to take a rest, and went
outside to make tea. After that
I took the pose more easily.
There were frequent knocks
at the door. The first two or
three scared me stiff for fear he
would let anyone come in ; but
I soon discovered that he made
a point of carrying his palette
J. S. WATKINS, as seen by Bill Mahony
in 1934, when “Watty” was a trustee of
the N.S.W. National Gallery
and brushes to the door. I found
later that most artists do this,
even if they have to pick them
up hastily for the occasion.
When Syd Long completed the
“Flamingoes” I was free to work
for other artists. Fred Leist gave
me some posing in a drape of
white butter-muslin —lots of it —
and holding, at arm’s length, a
waratah. Just a design for a
commercial job, I think.
Butter-muslin seemed to be
the only material used for
drapes. I was wrapped in yards
of it, twined in around the waist
and breasts and tightly banded
on the forehead with a piece of
tape, for a special design that
Julian Ashton was doing, for
which many sketches and photo-
graphs were made. Being of an
inquisitive turn of mind, I asked
what it was for. Julian just
looked at me and sucked in his
under-lip. Later I found that
they were for the invitation-
cards to the Duke and Duchess
of York’s banquet in Melbourne.
I started to work for Julian
Ashton at the Society of Artists’
rooms in Vickery’s Chambers,
posing for the classes from ten
till four, then the evening
classes.
Julian visited the classes at
regular intervals to inspect the
work. There was always a tense
silence in the room as he was
heard coming along from his
private room—not that they
talked at any time above a
whisper; he soon silenced their
chatter. But he could never do
anything about Ruby Winckler’s
burst of laughter. He was very
interested in her work. I soon
knew which were his favorite
students by noting the attention
that he gave to them.
He was ruthless in his criti-
cism. I have seen him stand
behind a student, without saying
a word, and just sucking in his
under-lip. Then he would pass
on with a shake of his head,
leaving the poor student shat-
tered. I heard one girl say, in
desperation, “But, Mr. Ashton,
I try to draw it as I see it.” He
laughed, and said how that re-,
minded him of a story in Paris
when an artist said to a critic,
“I paint what I see.” The critic
replied, “God help you
when you see what you
paint.”
To a student showing
promise he gave his
untiring attention; and
it was soon understood
that it was no use com-
ing to his classes to
waste his time. To a
lad who protested one
day that he was sick of
drawing skeletons and
wanted to go into the
model - room, Julian
said, “When you know
where to put the bones
under flesh —then, and
not before.” They all
had to get past the real
skeleton hitched up at
the end of the cast-
room.
Julian always came to
the rooms at nine-
thirty ; his face pink
and soap-shiny beneath
his white hair. “I go
to bed at nine o’clock,
get up at four-thirty,
feed tiie fowls, take a
cup of tea to the family
and the cook,” he said. He
was a widower at this time,
and used to bring in twice
a week a white enamel billy
full of curry for his tea at night.
This I would make hot and eat
with him.
After the students left at four-
thirty I used to sweep the rooms,
wash-up the dishes, put the curry
on the gas-ring and then take it
to his room, where he would be
resting near a kerosene-burner
until the night-class started. He
talked to me quite a lot, and. I
particularly remember his stories
of Henry Parkes, for whom he
had a great admiration.
He would settle back in his
cane lounge-chair with his pipe,
the room pleasantly warm in the
glow from the kerosene-stove,
chortle a little to himself at some
memory, and then chat.
“Great man, Parkes —yes,” he
said. “I was once foolish enough
to take him to task. ‘Look here,
Sir Henry, why don’t you pay
your accounts and stop people
talking?’ Sir Henry was seated
at his desk, and he just looked
up at me and, without saying
a word, commenced to pull
cheques out of his drawer and
place one after the other on his
desk. ‘Look at them, Julian.
That’s why I don’t pay my bills
—I don’t cash them.’ I looked.
They were all signed, for large
First of a series of extracts from the unpublished
memoirs of Rose Lindsay (Mrs. Norman
Lindsay), which will appear in these pages
at intervals.
amounts, with little notes of
suggestions attached.
“No,” said Julian, sucking at
his pipe, “he didn’t take bribes.”
He said that when his wife
was alive they used to call on
Sir Henry and his wife nearly
every Sunday morning. One
morning Sir Henry was rather
cool, and eventually said, “I see,
Ashton, that you have been
attacking me in the Press over
that sculptor’s work that I have
had put up on city buildings.”
Julian replied, “I have not at-
tacked you ; I have attacked the
Government.”
“But, damn it all, I am the
Government.”
Julian laughed, saying, “And,
of course, he was, too.”
When Watkins (J. S. Watkins,
and here let me tell that the “S”
stood for Samuel —a dark secret
in the life of Watkins) opened
the door to my knock I thought
that I had never seen a man with
such short legs.
He had the body and head of
a large man, and about half-size
in legs ; a stray lock of hair from
his brushed-back mane kept
falling over his square forehead,
which had a hole in it. I in-
quired about the hole. “I got
a piece of china in it when I
was a kid, and it’s probably still
there; my parents were not the
sort to worry over such trifles,”
he told me.
That point settled, I had a look
around the studio while Watkins,
holding a palette and painting-
stick, was sizing me up. “You
can come and pose for the class
tonight,” he said.
The room was so cluttered-up
with easels, chairs, canvases,
screens and jars full of brushes
that I had to take bearings before
turning around for fear of
knocking things over, and there
was a grey layer of dust on
everything. “Your windows are
very dirty,” I said,
looking at their misty
pall
“Softens the light and
saves curtains,” he
said.
I had a look at the
pictures; “A Lady,”
with liquid blue eyes
and a bunch of violets
tucked in a lacy fichu,
particularly appealed to
me. A large canvas of
Circe, slightly draped,
with a few pink pigs on
a brilliant green sward
and a bit of Roman
ruins in the back-
ground, hung frameless
on the wall. On the
easel, and hitched by a
string to the ceiling,
was a ten-by-five canvas
of the Genie and the
Bottle, which he was
finishing for the coming
show.
The bottle was stand-
ing shining brown
on a vast sandy
space ; whatever was coming out
of it as ordered by the Magi
looked like smoke to me, and the
Magi at his work wore brilliant
draperies, and bore a strange
likeness to the artist.
When I posed that night for
the class the students gazed at
it with admiration. “It’s a Gal-
lery picture, and should be pur-
chased by the trustees,” they
said.
Quite a lot of the students
were elderly, and worked
earnestly. One woman, who had
been going there for years,
hurried in wearing a tight, drab
brown coat and skirt, and a
straw boater on top of her tea-
pot knob which she unskewered
and, jabbing the skewers back,
pushed it under the model-stand.
Pulling up a chair' and placing a
low easel at the foot of the
stand, she set to work with a
will, remaining seated there
through the rest-time, looking
impatiently at her wrist-watch.
She never noticed or spoke to
the others. When the class was
over she would lean down for
the boater, jab it on, gather up
her papers and make out.
Shakespeare was her name.
So crowded was the room that
Watkins could hardly squeeze
between the students to
look at their work.
They were a cheerful
lot, talking all the while,
and Watkins praised
their efforts, letting
them do as they wished,
which probably went
far to help the long
line of successful
artists who passed
through his classes.
Watkins loved his
flute, and would often
retire to a corner and
play it gently while they
worked, or entertain
them at rest-time \yith a
weight-lifting display,
with great iron balls on
a bar, which, no doubt,
did much towards
weakening his heart.
Watkins was proud of
his students and the
artists who had passed
through his classes —
Lambert, Leist, Full-
wood, Muir Auld,
Trindall, the Crisp
brothers and Harry
Garlick. Harry was a
black - haired, white-
faced, silent lad with brown,
glittering eyes sunken in his
skull-like face. I often saw him
standing in dark doorways in
Hunter-street, as if hiding there
to watch the‘passers-by.
Hunter-street at this date,
1904, was a street of artists’
studios. Fred Leist, Syd Long
and A. J. Fischer had their
studios on the top-floor of the
insurance building on the corner
of Bligh- and Hunter-streets,
with its great winding stair-
way, and where a man of
Sydney society was addicted to
lurking about the basement lift-
well, twirling his moustache at
the models and dodging the lift-
man, who was wise to his moves.
“He’s harmless. He’s been doing
DATTILO-RUBBO, sketched by Dubois
in 1952
that for years. Gets mistaken
for the caretaker quite often,”
the liftman explained, with the
superior air of one to whom
models were as water on a
duck’s back. Apart from gazing
at models, the one of the twirl-
ing moustache made claim to
the Arts by having met the man
who hung around Shelley, and
whom no one seems to like very
much in literature, but I cant
think of his name.
Watkins was in the building
next to Chinnery’s Fish, where
Mr. Chinnery, an expert at fish
and fishing, whiled away his
time at the till, with his pet
parrot stepping as daintily as a
ballet-dancer along the top ledge
of the till yodelling “Pretty
Polly” and pecking kisses on
Chinnery’s nose for all to see,
so great was their admiration
for each other.
• '• • •
After Watkins’s classes
Dattilo - Rubbo’s were the
noisiest, but Rubbo made most
of the noise. Brisk of manner,
olive-skinned, with merry brown
eyes and clipped, pointed beard,
he was always in a state of
despair over somethings —work
not going right, models not keep-
ing appointments, food on the
stove burning.
JULIAN ASHTON, modelled by Frith
in 1939
He was constantly rushing to
his living-room next to the
studio to rescue something that
was permeating the building with
a smell of burning, coming back
throwing his hands and flicking
his fingers to indicate another
failure in stews. It was a cheer-
ful state of despair.
On Sunday mornings he took
fencing-lessons with an expert,
a tall, thin Italian with sad eyes
and a greying beard, so shar-
pened to a point that it looked
dangerous, moustache - ends
waxed and curled to a rapier-
edge that almost stabbed into
the brim of his large grey
slouch-hat, which he wore turned
up on one side in cavalier
fashion.
Invited there one morning to
see Rubbo fence with “the Pro-
fessor,” as Rubbo called him, I
sat on the model-stand to watch
the combat. After much pacing
up and down and measuring of
distances, Rubbo went so briskly
to work that I felt sure he would
stab his opponent to the heart
any minute. After each bout
much back-slapping went on,
and what, I gathered, were lavish
compliments in Italian that one
could have slain the other if so
minded.
Then we retired to the living-
room to eat a special dish, pre-
pared by the Professor, of
poached eggs garnished with
capers and swimming in a pool
of olive-oil, finishing off with
black coffee as only the Pro-
fessor could make it, according
to Rubbo,
The Professor sat back with
a cheroot, bowing graciously to
compliments lavished on him by
Rubbo for his culinary arts,
nodding and bowing as Rubbo
talked. With a full stomach of
eggs and capers, Rubbo took a
sentimental turn about himself.
“P paint the old man’s head, I
paint the wrinkles. Nobody
cares. Who is Rubbo? Nobody.
Bah!” He# always referred to
himself as “Rubbo.” “Ah,
Rubbo, you are no good. You
teach the students, what for?
Nothing.” The Professor nodded
solemnly, as if to confirm his
[Continued on page 34)


/
X
AIDING PRODUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Whether your problem be one of import-
ing modern equipment or one of the many
associated with increasing production in
Australia, we offer you helpful advice and
assistance.
Ownership and control by Australians and
i long experience in Australian banking fit
is to serve our customers well.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
MEDICINE AND MURDER
“Is there a method hidden in
the apparent madness of the
purges that are now shaking the
Communist part of the worlc
the mass of absurd charges
and more absurd confessions
that are poisoning the air from
Bucharest to Berlin and from
Prague to Moscow?” — London
“Observer” Berlin correspondent,
Richard Lowenthal.
“We are watching the unfold-
ing of another great human
tragedy comparable to Nazism
at its worst. Moscow has ob-
viously gone back to pogrom
mentality, but in the meantime
has developed refinements of
brutality and torture of which
even the Cossacks were innocent.
We have seen Communist purges
before. This one bids fair to be
the most savage of them all.” —
“New York Times.”
“If the necessity for a purge
on this level is so great, it can
only reflect a great sense of
urgency and uncertainty in the
Kremlin.”— Edward Crankshaw,
in London “Observer.”
The following are some of the
attempts to read the riddle,
mostly referring to the anti-
Semitism in general evident in
the Iron Curtain upheaval and
particularly to the charges
against the Moscow doctors
(chiefly Jewish) of having in
conspiracy in 1948 murdered
Zhdanov and Shcherbakov and
attempted the lives of several
“famous Marshals of the Soviet
Union.”
* * * «
“New York Times” foreign-
affairs writer : “The campaign is
primarily directed against ‘Zion-
ism,’ and this leads many ob-
servers to conclude that its chief
aim is to feed the Arab rancor
against Israel and ease the way
for Russian penetration of the
Middle East. Another explana-
tion is that Moscow is stirring
up the dregs of Nazism in Ger-
many in order to fake advantage
of the present snags in the plans
for integrating West Germany
into the European Defence Com-
munity and exploit nationalist
feeling for unification for Soviet
ends.”
* * * ♦
Edward Crankshaw (London
“Observer"): “It probably seems
certain to the ordinary Russian
mind that Stalin is moving in,
as he has moved in before, to
eliminate a real or potential
opposition, and at the same time
to hammer it home that in face
of the menace from the West
there can be no relaxation of
any kind, but only blood and
sweat and total obedience to the
Kremlin’s orders.”
* * * * *
“New York Times" editorial
comment: “As in the case of
Hitler, the Soviets are obviously
using anti-Semitism for several
ulterior purposes. One is to put
pressure upon the Jews them-
selves as elements suspected of
a Western orientation and of
loyalties to a different divinity
than the totalitarian State. An-
other purpose is to find scape-
goats for the mass misery im-
posed by a Communist regime,
in which respect the Soviet rulers
follow the example not only of
Hitler but of the Tsarist police.
And a third purpose, which ex-
plains the timing in this case, is
to use an open anti-Semitic cam-
paign as an instrument of a
Soviet policy which has now
turned against Israel and seeks
to cater to both the Arabs and
the remaining Nazi elements in
Germany.”
* * ♦ *
London “Sunday Times” :
“The changes betray a grim
state of fear, conspiracy and
hate within the Soviet world.
But if we believe that portends
its early dissolution we forget
the colossal monolithic power of
a State built on force, fear and
suppression. They have been
taken by some observers as a
clearing of the decks for an act
of aggression, presumably in the
West, and certainly the sense of
urgency and desperation that
they convey cannot but make
its warning plain to us. But it
might equally be argued that
Russia will not launch a world
war in the midst of a major
internal ‘purge.’ ”
The same; “Anti-Semitism is
of old standing in the Soviet
Union, where Jews are per-
petually suspect as international-
ists and so become a ready
scapegoat when misery needs a
distraction or terror an excuse.”
Same: “One conclusion at
least we can certainly draw. The
Soviet world is utterly unlike our
own in every concept and prac-
tice of public affairs. It is im-
bued with the doctrines of revo-
which imply a war to the
death' with counter-revolution,
“Washington Post”
“AND IT’S PRACTICALLY A LIFETIME APPOINTMENT”
as all opposition appears. The
regime lives in fear, and by fear.
It counts individual life and free-
dom as nothing. To hope for a
state of affairs in which that
world and ours can work to-
gether in concord, our differences
compromised and our policies
reconciled, is sheer illusion. To
avoid a third world war —and
that must be our supreme objec-
tive —requires not the achieve-
ment of a paradise of goodwill
but such constant strength, unity
and preparedness on the part of
the free nations as will at all
times deter the dictators of the
Kremlin from taking the risk of
war.”
* * * *
Richard Lowenthal (London
“Observer”): “In contrast to
every bureaucratic caste known
to history, the Stalinist party
bureaucracy has not, and cannot,
become conservative: it main-
tains its power not by keeping
things quiet, but by never allow-
ing its subjects to settle down.”
Same: “Disagreements and
conflicts of interests naturally
arise between members of a
Government who are severally
responsible for different sectors
of social life. Where such con-
flicts cannot be bridged, but have
to be fought out, they qfinnot
be presented to the people in
their true light. They must be
interpreted as manifestations of
evil that have penetrated into the
otherwise harmonious system
from outside—as machinations
of enemy agents, of spies and
criminals, of sinister foreigners*
or of Jews.”
* * # ♦
Edinburgh “Scotsman” : “As
the germ-warfare fiction is get-
ting Russia nowhere and has
possibly begun to pall in Russia
itself, a new lie is needed to
increase the tension between
Russia and the Western world.
So the story that these men were
paid agents of foreign countries
is produced. It could be Stalin’s
intention so to work upon Rus-
sian opinion that a mere incident
might become the excuse for* the
outbreak of war between East
and West.”
.** * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“Those who have been to Russia
have mostly returned with glow-
ing accounts of the simple Rus-
sian’s burning cjesire for peace
and friendship with all nations.
But the simple Russian is being
steadily taught that the outside
world is governed by diabolical
monsters who not only practise
germ warfare in Korea but have
also suborned trusted doctors to
practise the blackest of arts on
those who guide and guard the
Motherland. The real wicked-
ness of these officially propa-
gated lies is that they may lead
the Russians to believe that war
is not only inevitable, but is the
only means of ending an ever-
present menace which all the
forces of security are alleged to
be powerless to defeat.”
* * * *
“Manchester Guardian”:
When the • Russian authorities
broadcast to the world that
Jewish doctors have been plot-
ting with a great Jewish
charitable organisation to kill
distinguished generals by falsely
diagnosing their maladies it is
not the imbecility or the con-
tempt for human intelligence
which matters. Are we not wit-
nessing a push towards power
by a group which has decided
that anti-Semitism and the
generals can play a useful part?”
Same: “When a change of
power is imminent the anxiety
becomes tense and the plotting
active. Stalin’s life is ebbing.
Who is to succeed him? In other
words, who is to live. and who
is to die? There is no inevitable
successor, and there are many
claimants. The circle of hopes
and fears is wide, much wider
than when Lenin died. It is a
generation of little men, and
little men in Russia are des-
perate, because though their
obscurity does not deny them
appetite it makes them easy to
kill.”
Same: “In and around the
Kremlin today the dominant
preoccupation is who are to be
masters when Stalin joins the
other Communist gods. Against
that day plans are being laid and
skirmishes fought. The trials at
Prague were one of those skir-
mishes. To discuss whether
Gottwald represents national
Communism and his victims
international Communism is to
waste words. Both represent the
appetite for power, the safety
which goes with it and the
calamity which accompanies its
loss.”
Same: “The fears and the
hopes, as the life of Stalin
moves to its end, may , split that
political structure as they have
split so many before in the his-
tory»of States. There will not
be the authority of a Lenin or a
Stalin to hold the ambitious
down, nor the prestige of a
Generalissimo to check the
generals. The lions now under
the throne will struggle for the
seat on the throne. And in that
struggle can the throne survive?
May it not be that already the
first faint shadow of anarchy
and civil war is beginning to fall
on Russia?”
African Federation
Not much has come out about
an important conference lately
held in London, dealing with
what could be a history-making
African merger.
The areas immediately in-
volved are Britain’s three huge
possessions, Southern Rhodesia,
Northern Rhodesia and Nyasa-
land.
The project (which has had a
mostly hostile “Press” in Britain)
is here summarised from a
“New York Times” report:
“The goal would be to weld
these colonies into one fede-
rated State. Eventually, this
would become a new British
Dominion, inviting wholesale
white immigration and capital in-
vestment and able to provide the
Empire with more priceless raw
materials, such as copper, cobalt
and uranium.
“In the words of Sir Godfrey
M. Huggins, Southern Rhodesia’s
Prime Minister for nineteen
years, it would create a strong,
virile, progressive British State
and ‘preserve Africa for the
Empire and for the British way
of life.’
“To many, this scheme is but
a first phase. An organisation
called the Capricorn Africa
Society is pushing for a wider
federation. Its ultimate ob-
jective would be to group
together all of the continent
south of the Sahara Desert in a
United States cff Africa.”
The London conference con-
cluded with a resolution ad-
dressed to the Queen and
stating:
“So far as lies in our power,
we will strive to maintain and
enhance that great tradition of
loyalty to, the Crown which has
ever inspired the Commonwealth
and Empire.”
Workers
From an article by a London
correspondent of “U.S. News
and World Report” ;
“The British worker of today
takes 8 hours to do what it took
only 7 hours to do before the
war.
“In a typical British factory,
where work begins at 7 a.m., it
is 7.20 before the assembly-line
hits full speed. It takes 20
minutes, that is, for British work-
ers to get their machines in
operation, drawing down elec-
tric-power.
“In West Germany the time
required to start an assembly-
line is only a minute or so. In
U.S. and Belgium, three or four
minutes. Australian workers,
however, take longer than the
British.”
"Liberation" Off
There will, of course, be no
military crusade to rescue cap-
tive Eastern Europe from
Russian bondage.
The mere use of the word
“liberation” by Eisenhower in
a campaigning speech spread an
epidemic of jitters from Britain
throughout the Western camp,
and the relief was tremendous
when it was found that Eisen-
hower’s text had been politically
twisted.
How easy it would be to start
the epidemic off again with a
mention of “liberation” is indi-
cated by a recent London


TWAmmAMmrwmrwAmrwA mrwA^rwa
TUANS WO RIO AIRIINtS
is the ONLY airline to offer you
Super (Constellations |
to carry you in luxury from San Francisco or ||||
Los Angeles to New York en route to London's |
w/ |
SUPER CONSTELLATION FEATURES: S
I
I K
«. ask FOR TWA SUPER CONSTELLATION SERVICE ACROSS AMERICA
• Most spacious planes in
commercial operation—
-< 744 square feet of floor
space.
• Seats 64 passengers, plus
8 sleeping berths.
• Luxury lounge for pas-
sengers’ comfort.
• Most advanced 4-engine
equipment gives greater
Literature supplied on application
to any approved travel Agent, or
TWA, Kembla Building, 58
Margaret St., Sydney. BX 1219.
range—3,2so miles cruis-
ing at 20,000 feet.
• Pressurised and air-con-
ditioned cabins give low
altitude comfort.
9 Outstanding cuisine.
i¥*
iw
“Economist” comment. The
“Economist,” apparently fearful
that American policy may be-
come too dynamic with Dulles
as Secretary of State, asks “Who
will apply the brakes?” and
adds:
“Mr. Dulles’s continued hopes
of stirring up anti-Communist
feeling in the satellite countries
awakens an uneasy echo of his
‘liberation’ policy which caused
so much alarm during the
[Presidential] campaign.”
The recent speech by Mr.
Dulles giving the general outlines
of what will be American
foreign policy under President
Eisenhower should have been
reassuring on that point at least.
Whatever promise the U.S.
Presidential campaign catch-
cries may have seemed to hold
out for them, Eastern Europeans
must now know that “liberation”
is off.
Stalin, of course, has been
well aware of that all along,
though the West’s fright at not
much more than the mere use
of the word should have been a
final all-clear signal to go ahead
with the present tightening of
Moscow’s grip all over Eastern
Europe.
Actually, all that Eisenhower
himself ever really undertook
was a watching brief, with
promise of “psychological” aid
and suchlike rather nebulous
comfort. His campaigning rival,
Stevenson, opposing all thought
of “liberation,” let alone “libera-
tion” action in any positive
sense, was certain “the people
of Eastern Europe will never
lose heart”—an optimistic assur-
ance which can’t be disputed
but might perhaps be doubted.
For, as London “Time and
Tide” has commented, while the
bondage-term so far may not
have been enough to “break the
spirit,” it represents a terrible
drain on staying-power:
“This is especially true of the
middle and older generations.
As for the- young —mass-
instructed and mass-disciplined
as they are —every device is used
to destroy their natural allegiance
to family and faith.”
Hence their state of mind
“cannot be expected to be nor-
mal,” even now. And it will
hardly improve under such con-
ditions as these:
“There are at this moment a
million and a quarter men and
women, the ‘dissatisfied ele-
ments,’ in forced-labor camps
in Eastern Europe (as distinct
from the U.S.S.R. proper). They
are the small traders, artisans,
the former professional and
property-owning class and those
who had connections with the
West. They do heavy manual
labor from 10 to 12 hours a day
on prison rations which are
liable to be reduced if the work
quota is not fulfilled. Their over-
crowded camps are breeding-
grounds of tuberculosis and all
the diseases of malnutrition.
These facts are confirmed iff
evidence of the violation of
human rights submitted to the
United Nations by, among
others, the British Government.”
The test there, as elsewhere,
is on staying-power. They’ll
need a lot of it.
Middle East Change
“Our [Britain’s] present dip-
lomatic methods in the Middle
East are as obsolete as the
Meteor planes we are selling
there.”
Hence, in the view of London
“Observer” writer Robert
Stephens, time for a drastic
change, “an overhaul as daring
as Mr. Churchill’s remodelling of
Britain’s defence programme”:
“Because a large part of the
Middle East was for so many
years virtually an unofficial part
of the British Empire, British
dealings with the area today are
still based too much on an out-
dated paternalist attitude rather
than on the normal diplomatic
relations between independent
States..,..
“The hard fact, known to
every well-informed diplomat in
the Middle East, is that an
essential condition of military
co-operation between the Arab
States and the West is the scrap-
ping of the present system of
bilateral ‘unequal’ military
treaties between Britain and
Egypt, Irak and Jordan, and the
withdrawal of British forces from
these States, unless they are asked
to stay.”
Why France Stalls
Judged by a few British and
most American comments,
French attitudes in foreign policy
—the hesitations over the Euro-
pean Defence Community
especially—are attributable to
the shiftiness of French politics,
and this is turn sheets home to
the temperamental character of
the French.
Actually, practically every
puzzling French stand is explain-
able under one or other of the
following heads (from a London
“Observer” survey):
1. —The French have on their
hands what looks increasingly
like a losing war in Indo-China,
and they are, after six years of
unavailing effort, showing clear
signs of overstrain on this count
alone.
2. —At the same time they are
threatened with a major conflict,
much nearer home and affecting
much more vital French interests,
in North Africa.
3. —ln Europe they find them-
selves faced with the choice of
being either defenceless against
Russia or dependent for their
defence on Germany—the more
so in proportion as their own
forces are engaged overseas.
4. They are also threatened
with a new financial crisis, after
their bout of runaway inflation
in 1950-51.
“This multiple crisis,” the
“Observer” commented, “would
challenge the utmost capacities
of even the strongest, -ablest and
most stable French Government.
But the fall of the Pinay Govern-
ment and its sequel makes it look
unlikely that the Fourth Re-
public will ever produce any-
thing but feeble stopgap Gov-
ernments under its present Con-
stitution and party system. Nor
is the alternative prospect of the
rule of General de Gaulle —a
man whose political perversities
are only too well known to those
who have had to work with him
•—such as to inspire confidence.”
One important thing that the
French nationally—and natur-
ally—insist on is that voiced by
their latest Prime Minister, M.
Mayer: “preserving the integrity
of the French Army” in any
European-defence set-up they are
at all likely to agree to. This
explains the stalling over the
E.D.C., with which the
Americans are beginning to lose
patience. It is, however, under-
standable enough as fairly pre-
sented by London “Economist”:
“The French are unwilling to
see their national Army trans-
formed into an essentially non-
national force in a European
uniform and with a responsibility
to foreign officers. The reason
lies partly in the French military
tradition, built up through
centuries of glory, and which
still subsists strongly.
“Moreover, the conception of
Europe as a unit has not yet
taken on reality in the mind of
the average Frenchman. His
traditional disregard of foreign
affairs and tendency to
parochialism make it highly
unlikely that recruiting posters
for a European Army would be
received with anything except
puzzlement or derision.
“Finally, the French legiti-
mately consider themselves as a
colonial epipire with vital com-
mitments overseas. This makes
it necessary to keep a large
colonial army besides a Euro-
pean one. If this results, how-
ever, in separate recruitment, dif-
ferent pay-scales and uniforms,
the French feel that the integrity
of their forces would be lost,
whereas the Germans would
build up a single and unified
contingent.
“On the other hand, both M.
Mayer and M. Bidault, the
Foreign Minister, understand
perfectly that a European Army
is the only alternative to a
German Army under looser
Atlantic supervision.”
Hence, during the present
delay, they are trying to work
New York "Herald Tribune”
THE ORIGINAL CONDUCTOR RETURNS
out some compromise arrange-
ment, with the rather large .order
of:
1. —Establishing in good time,
the European Defence Com-
munity and thereby securing con-
tinued American support both
from the E.D.C. and European
unity in general and France in
particular as the keystone of that
structure.
2. —Preserving at the same
time that “integrity of the
French Army” which probably
no French Prime Minister of
whatever political color would
be willing to, or allowed to,
abandon.
3. —Preventing (or at any rate
indefinitely postponing) the
establishing of a similarly
national German Army.
Ratification of the E.D.C.
treaty is due very shortly now,
and the fact that the new U.S.
Secretary of State made it his
first mission abroad since taking
office indicates emphatically the
American view of its urgency.
Dulles would find the French
political parties deeply divided
both on the treaty’s merit and on
the changes that would be
acceptable.
London “Times’s” Paris cor-
respondent, in a recent special
survey, reported that the distaste
in France for any rearmament of
Germany in any form is still
shared by all parties in the
Assembly; where they divide is
on whether the European-Army
treaty in its present shape pro-
vides the most satisfactory solu-
tion to a problem that cannot be
evaded any longer.
There are in these differences
three main groups: those who
stand by the present text; those
who demand its modification on
the grounds that it contains
insufficient guarantees against
German militarism; and those
who consider that the rearma-
ment of Germany on a national
basis has at least the merits of
leaving France complete control
of her own forces.
The “Times” man declared
flatly that the E.D.C. treaty in its
present form “would certainly
never be ratified by a French
Parliament”:
“With a large proportion of
her forces committed in Indo-
China, France, it is felt, would
enter the defence community
with a disadvantage which it
should be the purpose of the
treaty to rectify. The present
text does not, or does so insuf-
ficiently to appease French fears.
If the additional protocols con-
templated can dispel these fears,
a majority will be found for
ratification; otherwise, the
parties are likely to insist that
the armed strength of France
must remain under French
control.”
What could, however, be a
most significant development has
been reported by a “New York
Times” correspondent: the
French newspapers which have
been most critical of the Euro-
pean-Army plan, like “Combat”
and “Le Monde,” are now
alarmed at the prospect that it
might fall through, and are tak-
ing the line that all it needs to
be workable is a few amend-
ments.
Various Voices
German Chancellor Aden-
auer: “Barbarous and merciless
times have once more broken in
upon Europe and upon us from
the east. Ask the Poles and the
Hungarians, the Czechs, and all
the people of the east and of
central and eastern Germany if
that is not so.”
Harry Ferguson (former busi-
ness associate of Henry Ford):
“I do not believe the Communist
military threat is anything like
as serious as their economic
threat. Our victory must be eco-
nomic. We must raise the
standards of life of our own
people and the free peoples of
the world to a point the Com-
munists cannot equal, let alone
surpass. There is no hope of
raising living standards by giv-
ing people more money. That
can only lead to disaster. The
right idea is to make money buy
more.”
East London Juvenile Court
chairman. Basil Henriques: “I
am very worried about the
change of attitude in the last 20
years—the greater lack of self-
control on the part of the young
people who come before us, I
wonder whether the discipline in
the so-called progressive schools
is really creating in the child
that sense of there being certain
things that must not be done be-
cause they are wrong, and other
things that must be done be-
cause they are right.”
A. Harold Bib by, chairman of
Martins Bank (on Britain's
economic crisis): “I wonder
whether the man in the street
ever realised how near to starva-
tion he was. He seemed much
more immediately concerned as
to whether he should have Tree-
teeth than whether he should
have any meat to eat when he
got them.”
R. R. Stokes, British Labor
Minister who negotiated (fruit-
lessly) with Moussadek: “Persian
oil is the cheapest oil to produce
in the world —or rather Near-
East oil is, because it all lies on
a limestone bed and comes up
under pressure. Before the war
it used to be said that A.1.0.C.
[Anglo-Iranian Oil Co.] could
produce oil and sell it in
America at less than the cost of
production in America, where
the oil is on sandstone and
mostly has to be pumped.”
British Conservative MR.,
Christopher Hollis: “In all
essential matters the policies of
the two parties are the same.
Socialists attack these policies
when the Conservatives are in
power, just as the Conservatives
attacked them when the Social-
ists were in power. But the
policies remain the same policies.
As time goes on the parties
differ more and more about
less and less.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Child-delinquency
The school leaving-age of 15 years
in N. S. Wales is a possible though rarely-
mentioned cause of child-delinquency.
Among other reasons, the age was fixed
at 15 to prevent the exploitation of young
children by greedy parents, and to bridge
the gap between leaving school and the
beginning of apprenticeships at 16 years.
The Child Welfare Department can
permit a child to leave school before
15 if sufficient hardship can be shown
in the home. Although some organisa-
tions have lately protested that the C.W.D.
has been too easy with its exemptions, I
don’t think they’ve been at all lavish.
Home conditions must be such that it is
essential for the boy to earn his few
pounds for the family to eat.
Many boys reach the stage where
further education is a sheer waste of
time. They attend school only because
the law says so. Sometimes they are
only present at school when the C.W.D.
catches up with them and brings them
back. Because of their outlook they
become a menace to weaker characters
and are such nuisances that they hinder
the efficient working of the class.
When a boy reaches that stage all the
Education Acts in the world won’t make
him learn. Often he is not lazy nor is
he lacking in intellect —he is just not
interested in school and is unhappy there.
His one wish is to get out and earn
money and, denied that, he often tries
other means of getting it.
Unfortunately, when applications for
exemption are being considered little
thought is given to the boy’s own feel-
ings and character. If it is obvious that
further compulsory education is not go-
ing to benefit him in any way he should
be released from school immediately.—
Wackford (N.S.W.).
Late Final Extra
The Victorian Egg Board issues a
paper called “The Egg Producer,” which
consists mainly of advertisements and a
few extracts from other journals. It is
sent, buckshee, to owners of 100 or more
birds.
The annual report in the December,
1952, issue shows advertising revenue was
" You must admit, John, that it was I who suggested modernising the office."
£1686 12s. Id. less than production and
tribution costs.
Surely the egg-cocky is stung enough
without having to subsidise advertisers,
particularly when farm news is well
looked after by private enterprise,—
Humus (Vic.).
,
Church History
R. Ogden seems to be relying upon
authorities or reference-works long out
of date (B. 4/2/’53). This is the accepted
version of the story of the Alexandrian
library: It was founded by the first
Ptolemy and wai expanded by his son
and subsequent rulers. It grew until it
housed nearly half a million manuscript-
rolls, the equivalent of some 50,000
modern books.
This original library was destroyed by
fire when Julius Caesar besieged Alex-
andria. Cleopatra mourned its loss until
Mark Antony earned her gratitude —and
the curses of just about everyone else —
by stealing the almost-as-good library
from the Greek city of Pergamos and
laying it at her feet. She housed it in
the Serapium at Alexandria. It was this
irreplaceable collection which a Christian
mob burnt.
I know of no modern reference-work
which gives any credence to the story
that the “remaining works from this
library kept the public baths in fuel for
six months” when the Moslems under
Caliph ’Amr (not Omar) took the city.
All class it as a ridiculous tale resting
on the word of one man. On the other
hand, several people, including the reliable
historian Orosius, visited the once-great
treasure-house of knowledge after the
Christians had been through it and “wept
to see nothing save empty shelves.”
Further, the claim that “Almost every
classical literary work w'e now possess
survived only because it was preserved
in some Christian monastery” was proved
false long ago. An examination of the
contents of surviving monastic libraries,
or their even more numerous ancient
catalogues, shows little save works on
Christian dogma, apocryphal accounts of
miracles and lives of saints.
On the other hand, the Arabs founded
libraries at Baghdad and Cairo, to which
they transferred every Greek, Roman or
Indian manuscript they could lay their
hands on. The originals were guarded
with great care and Arabic copies of
them were made. Later, the Moors
established similar libraries at Tripoli
and at Cordova when Spain was under
their domination.
It was from these collections, during
the Renaissance, that most of our great
classical treasures were recovered ; so, no
matter how fanatical they were in other
ways, the Moslems did the world a very
great service.—H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
Democracy
The Swiss Parliament has points that
we could well copy (B. 28/1/’53), but
we could come nearer to home for im-
provements. What of the old Scots
Parliament? Scotland (as Australia
did) grew slowly into a unity by
federalism. Indeed, the Scottish Conven-
tion of Royal Burghs is the oldest living
federation in Europe, and its business is
still carried on as was the old Scots
Parliament. (It has functioned success-
fully for eight centuries.) This federalism
is nearer to our own Australian natures
than any other system of government,
In the Scottish Estates (Parliament) each
member was allotted his seat in the
Chamber as he entered, hence that con-
tinual boring reference “members oppo-
site” would be spared us. When all were
seated, the doors were locked and the
roll called to see which members were
present. Absentees were neither paid nor
allowed to vote. Voting was as in the
United States Senate today. The roll
was called and each member asked indi-
vidually whether he was for or against
the motion, thus ensuring that no party
Whip could influence the members.
The Lord Chancellor (Prime Minister)
was also Speaker. There were eight
Officers of State, one more than Switzer-
land. They were the Lord Chancellor,
the Lord High Treasurer, the Lord Privy
Seal, the Lord President of the Council,
the Lord Treasurer-Depute, Lord Justice
Clerk, Lord Clerk Register and Lord
Advocate,
Representatives were of the shires
(burghs), hence there were no gerry-
mandered electorates. The Kirk was repre-
sented and the Upper House had no exist-
ence as such. The three estates.
Commons, Kirk and Aristocracy, sat in
Parliament in one House, thus obviating
our clumsy two-Chamber system.
In addition, the Crown was rightly
allowed to preside over the Parliament.
“ Ah—a stranger !”
We need a simpler Parliament than
the ones we have, and we want one where
there is more control over members. The
Scots Parliament gives this, and we could
well adopt it as a model. The Scottish
Convention of Royal Burghs has adopted
officially this system of Parliament for
a future Scottish Parliament. To this
day they use that system, as does the'
Presbyterian Kirk, and as should Aus-
tralia. — John J. Alderson (Vic.).
Petrol Sales
Petrol-sellipg stations are springing up
like mushrooms about Sydney’s suburbs
and along the country roads. Large sums
of money are being spent on elaborate
stations, expensive bowsers are being in-
stalled by the dozen and in many in-
stances attendants wear neat uniforms.
All that might be taken as a good sign
of progress, but it’s a strange state of
affairs when I can buy any of a dozen
different brands of petrol at as many
selling-stations within a radius of half a
mile of my home, though I am limited to
one baker, one milkman and one ice-
man, despite the fact that zoning has
been officially abolished. —W.P. T.
(N.S.W.).
Adelaide
Discussing Surveyor-General William
Light’s choice gf the site for Adelaide,
the Service page (B. 21/1 /’53) says:
“Probably no one would assert now that
he was wrong.” Don’t repeat that state-
ment in Goolwa, Mannum or Victor
Harbor. The fact is that had Light and
his friend Captain Sturt been sailors, not
soldiers, the capital of S.A. would prob-
ably not have been where it is, and,
despite over 100 years of “Light-was-
right” propaganda, there are plenty of
people in the Murray Valley to assert
that the capital should have been at or
near the Murray mouth.
Light and Sturt argued that no vessel
could navigate the mouth —which has
since been navigated hundreds of times—
and Light’s supporters, possibly with his
connivance, falsified their report on
Victor Harbor.
Hindmarsh, the sailor, who has been
vilified over the years as an ignoramus,
realised that a port could be constructed
near the Murray mouth, but Light and
Sturt, supported as they were by land
speculators, won the day, and the S.A.
capital—with an indifferent port which,
in days of more vigorous journalism, was
referred to in the Murray-side Press as
Mudholia—is situated so that vessels
have to go 60 unproductive miles up St.
Vincent Gulf to reach it. Its suburbs
have eaten up the richest vineyard and
agricultural land in the State, and much
of its country and inter-State trade has
to be hauled over the steep grades of the
Mount Lofty Ranges— Stweeler (S.A.).
Armament
Although Britain has been the most
conservative of all countries in matters
military there is evidence that inventive
skill has often placed her well ahead
in armament. In 1782 the French float-
ing batteries and a great part of the
Spanish fleet were destroyed by red-hot
shot fired from the batteries of Gibraltar.
Red-hot shot was a form of attack
developed with terrible efficiency by the
British Navy during the Napoleonic Wars.
Britain was also the first European
nation to use the rocket as a military
weapon. Colonel Sir William Congreve
made rockets weighing from two ounces
to three hundredweight. Used in the
siege of Boulogne in 1806, they set
the town on fire after a 10-minutes’
bombardment. With remarkable pre-
science, Congreve predicted that the
rocket would some day change the entire
s y stem of military tactics.
The percussion-cap and the cylmdro-
conoidaf bullet were Brit i s h inventions.
From th{J cyl i ndro -conoidal buffet the
Minie bullet was deV eloped, and it made
the rifle the most deadly of wea pons,
whfle the pe rcuss ion-cap enabled the
mus j cet to be fired in wet weather,
Breech-loading and rifling of cannon were
first experimented with in England in
1745.
Extraordinary development in arma-
ments took place during the American
Q vd yyar the first of the great modern
wars Armies were moved by rail and
and field-telegraph, armored trains,
ba n oo ns, searchlights and explosive
bu fi e t s were used for the first time. In-
ventions included a magazine-loading
rifle, a machine-gun, torpedoes, land and
submarine mines, wire entanglements,
mortars, hand-grenades, winged-grenades
and booby-traps of all kinds. Flame-
throwers were experimented with, and a
Federal warship was sunk on February
1864, by a midget man-propelled
Confederate submarine,
Most significant of all, the wooden
fleets of tbe WO rld were rendered obso-
j ete in tbree hours on March 9, 1862,
wben tbe brst battle between ironclads
took p j ace- xhe Confederate Merrimac
and tbe Federal Monitor slugged and
rammed ea ch other in an indecisive con-
test of mutua i invulnerability. But they
were not tbe first ironclads to be built
The British Warrior—3Boft. long, 883 d
tons displacement, 6000-h.p. engines, an
a speed of 14i knots—had been iauncn
as early as 1861. She was [hen me m
modern and most powerful
i n the world, with an armament pi
7in., guns and an armor-ne >
thick.— Clem Lack (Q.).
_
Border
South the . Melbourne and
Motoring between • ing £2OO-
- 1 left a > g h £< 3 ■ J ent at
worth of photographic q P


Euroa (Vic.) and did not discover the loss
until near Culcairn (N.S.W-) at night.
Reasoning that the bag must be at
Euroa, I immediately high-tailed it for
there, stopping at Albury police-station
to ask them to phone the Euroa police
for any tidings of the missing property.
I was civilly told that such a procedure
was against regulations, which prohibited
N. S. Wales police from contacting Vic-
torian police on such , a matter. The
Albury police said they would send out
circulars concerning the lost goods, but
as that would take several days the pro-
cedure was practically useless to me. They
were polite but adamant, saying they
could only ring the Victorian police if
special permisison to do so was obtained
from the ,N. S. Wales Police Commis-
sioner in Sydney, which again would take
several days.
So there was nothing I could do but
continue to burn up the road to Euroa.
Luckily, I recovered my goods intact. I
still have a first-rate grouch against so
much silly red-tape.— Tam an a (Vic.).
Sydney University
What astonishes me is not the “number
of enduring books written in the quiet
cloisters of Oxford and Cambridge
colleges” (B. 14/1/’53), but that any en-
during books should have been written
in the flurry of Sydney University.
Between four and five every afternoon
the unquiet cloisters of the University
are like a busy city street. The day-
students are pouring out while the even-
ing-students are hurrying in, trying to
grab a cup of tea before the first lecture
of the evening. Among the staff is the
same bustle. They, too, are trying to fit
into an hour what should take them most
of the evening.
The atmosphere of a university is not
there ; it savors too much of the technical
college. Both the University itself and
the students are to blame —the Univer-
sity because it attempts vocational train-
ing and asks for too much in its variety
and number of subjects; students be-
cause they regard the University as a step
towards earning a living rather than a
means of learning to live. The poor
support given to so many of the Uni-
versity’s activities is evidence of the slight
interest students have in anything out-
side the lecture-room.
The lecture system is a serious weak-
ness. The classes are too large altogether
—the spectacle of a lecturer of the calibre
of the late Professor Waldock, with his
fine speaking voice and dry sense of
humor, lecturing into a microphone in
front of 200 students was deplorable. The
intimacy that was an essential part of
Professor Waldock’s lectures was lost
altogether under such conditions.
Nor is there any scope for discussion
or argument. There is more discussion
and inquiry in any high-school class than
in any lecture-room at the University,
The students merely sit there trying to
scribble notes as quickly as the lecturer
is speaking, often missing the real point
*
“Would y' know lamb if y' saw it ?”
of the lecture in the mass of words they
are copying.
The underpaid staff is asked to do too
much. It is unthinkable that the professor
of a particular school should waste his
time lecturing on elementary subjects to
first-year students. Yet that is a common
sight. The professor should be passing
on the benefits of his research and his
scholarship through his junior lecturers.
The class-room atmosphere is killing the
university atmosphere.
The students remain students through-
out their years at the Uni. They are
never encouraged to become scholars,
either by the conditions under which they
study or by the topics they have to learn
for examinations. The subjects for ex-
aminations are too widely and superfici-
ally treated. The student who is anxious
to get his degree in the shortest possible
time will not waste time reading deeply
into the subjects he is taking, but will
spend it profitably by studying and
analysing all the past exam, papers he
can get. It is cramming that pays divi-
dends at examination-time. With the
exception of those who passed through
the honors schools, very few students
continue on to the major degree in the
faculty.
Many of the essays are a waste of
time. The size of them and the time
allowed do not encourage any specialised
treatment of the subject. It is futile to
ask a student to write a philosophy essay
on “Immortality” or an English essay on
“Victorian Poetic Diction” in a term
and, further, to restrict such essays to
3000 words. Rather than three such
essays in a year it would be far better
to do one of 10,000 words in the year.
Then the student might have some know-
ledge of the subject on which he is
writing.
The remedies for all these ills are easy
to suggest, but there is one snag—finance.
The precarious state of the University’s
finances is well known to everybody, yet
its centenary appeal for funds was, except
for one anonymous donation, a failure.
It was surprising that more successful
professional men did not respond. Help,
too, could have been given by those
who have benefited so much from uni-
versity research —the farmers.
Labor Governments, par-
ticularly, are generally willing
to give greater financial aid,
but on terms that would take
away what little independence
the University has left.
The University has failed when its
graduates forget it so quickly. Its failures
are not in its academic standards —these
are still high despite their many weak-
nesses. It has faded because it has not
developed the spirit of scholarship and
search for knowledge in its members.
It has turned out many successful gradu-
ates, but it has turned out few scholars
and it has failed to hold their loyalty.—
Rank (N.S.W.).
Pinus Radiata Complex
Another aspect of the “Pinus radiata
complex” (B. 21/1 / ’53) is the loss to the
soil of moisture. With heavy storms
excepted, one may shelter and remain
dry under a thick canopy of pine. The
needles hold the rain, which later evapo-
rates.
The foliage of native Australian pines
and eucalypts points downwards, and all
air-borne moisture (even fog and dew)
falling on these needles and leaves reaches
the ground.
Victorian experiments, recorded in
A. O. Barrett’s Australian Entail } show
that, from a 50-point continuous rain,
garden soil under eucalypts was wet for
deep. Under Pinus insignis (syn.
radiata ), there was a mere iin. penetra-
.,,, , „ .
My bush hut overlooks a small pine
plantation. I hav® seen vapor rising
from the pine foliage after a shower has
passed, but Ive never seen it coming up
from adjacent eucalypt and acacia scrub,
H- S. (Vic.).
,
ana Giovanni
I have two neighbors—Giovanni and
Jim. Giovanni spent the war years at
the controls of a crawler-tractor on
A.W.C. contracts, and afterwards bought
himself a cane-farm. Ceaseless toil and
frugality have built him an asset valued
at £15,000. Jim spent 1939-46 in the
Army, and later, after a p.-m.-u. dis-
charge, on the high seas in merchant-
ships.
Lately Jim sank his £2OOO capital in
a small bit of land which had been certi-
fied by the Government horticulturist as
ideal for pines and tropical fruits. With
present costs, he found that he was £lOOO
short to bring his block into full and
speedy production. A brochure from the
Agricultural Bank told him that he could
borrow the £lOOO as a returned man
under very easy terms. He sent the in-
spection fee, was visited by a youthful
officer, who said he’d report to his prin-
cipals. The result was a wipe-off, with
no reason given. ,
An approach through Jim’s local
member brought the promise: “After a
further report from the local officer, the
case would be reconsidered.” Then the
final wipe arrived, over a rubber-stamped
signature. No further inspection had
been made.
“Try checking your leading edge .”
Jim took a job in the local sawmill.
He works eight hours a day, and arrives
home at 5.15 p.m., has his evening meal
and then pulls stumps until sundown.
On Saturdays and Sundays he and his
wife get stuck into it again; What time
Giovanni’s new £2OOO tractor roars its
way through the canefields.
I’ve nothing against Giovanni. He’s
industrious and thrifty, and has earned
his right to every foot of land he tills.
I admire Jim and believe that he’ll make
out and be a very tired man by the time
he’s 50. But as I turn the bend in the
road and hear the characteristic crunch
as another stump gives way to the strain
of Jim’s wire rope, and also hear the roar
of the tractor as Giovanni heads home-
wards, it doesn’t seem to add up. — Video
(Q).
Freedom Dying in N.S.W.
An incident in the Sydney Traffic Court
should leave no doubt in the mind of any
Australian that under “Labor” the march
to Socialism is insidious and rapid.
As stated by his solicitor, Christopher
Neale (of Punchbowl) is a young man of
initiative and industry. He has estab-
lished a plant making light industrial
and woodworking machines. He has a
number of employees and is doing very
well. He became dissatisfied with railway
transport of his machines, so he bought a
motor-truck and undertook to deliver
them himself.
At 5.55 a.m. on November 7 last he was
driving the truck, with two tons of his
machinery for delivery at Orange. Near
Lithgow he was stopped by Government
officials. As a result he was charged
with “having driven a lorry without a
transport licence on a journey which for
a distance exceeding 50 miles was com-
petitive with the railways.”
And this man, driving his own truck,
carrying his own goods, made in his own
plant by his own employees, over the
public road, for delivery to his own cus-
tomers, was fined £lO, plus £l2 4s. 6d.
road-tax, for doing it.
The insidiousness of socialisation in
this form lies in the apathy of the people
to cases of this kind. The N.S.W. Trans-
port Co-ordination Act, as Neale’s case
shows, has destroyed the freedom of
citizens in transport and travel, as have
other acts of this Government destroyed
their freedom all the way from choosing
which baker they’ll buy their bread from
to owning land. Yet, beyond indignant
protests from the direct sufferers and an
occasional article in the Press, the public
remains indifferent, never dreaming that
when one loses his freedom in this way all
lose it— C.S. (N.S.W.).
The Liberals
To my mind the Menzies Government
deserves criticism for leaving itself wide
open to the unwarranted and malicious
attacks of which “W.M.H.” complains
(B. 21/l/’53).
For about two years now the Federal
Government’s apathetic acceptance of
“Labor’s” scurrilous attacks has dis-
heartened even its staunchest supporters.
While in Canada Mr. Menzies made
weak innuendos about the belaboring his
Government was receiving at the hands
of the Opposition. Ridicule shouldn’t be
taken too lightly by public men, and Mr.
Menzies has permitted himself to be-
come the butt of the joke too often.
Politics isn’t a parlor-game. It was
traditional with early-Australian states-
men to stand up and fight doggedly; to
defend their policies with a proud dis-
play of strength rather than with an air
of martyrdom. It is the supposition or
prevading delusion that the Menzies Gov-
ernment is prepared to run away to fight
another day which is inspiring the unfair
abuse.
It’s simply a matter of Mr. Menzies
convincing his critics that they are bark-
ing’ up the wrong tree. To do that he
should peel off those kid-gloves, like
Churchill does on occasion, and show
that he is ready to enter the ring with bare
knuckles and even to wink at Marquess
of Queensberfy rules. P. Q. M. C.
(N.S.W.).
Street-planning
Sydney is enjoying the luxury of a
costly County of Cumberland scheme,
green-belts, non-building areas and so
forth, yet amid all this ambitious planning
an easier form of planning —street-plan-
ning—is being completely neglected.
Except for a few suburbs, Sydney is a
city of bare streets. In the outer suburbs,
when new areas have been opened up,
new streets have been formed, arid the
entire planning has consisted of running
a bulldozer up and down.
The beautification of the street is
generally left to the residents. If the
householder cares he can use his mower
to clear his front footpath. If he doesn’t
care he can leave the path to paspalum
and paddy’s-lucerne —the councils appa-
rently couldn’t care less. Some councils
will supply ornamental trees, but the care
of them is left to the residents, and
again no effort is made to plan the trees
in any way. A few straggly trees, a
lengthy gap, a few more trees, then more
gaps, is the picture presented in practically
every new street. Nowhere do we find
the leafy or colorful avenues that one
sees in many country towns.
The cost of copying the jacaranda
avenue of Grafton (N.S.W.) or the liquid-
amber avenue of Brunswick (Vic.) would
not be great, and the rc ,ult would be
more than worth it. — \V. R. N. (N.S.W.X


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
f
dsf
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vie.). Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edmeut’s Build-
ing, Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mo-
isten: ey & Ob., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA; W'c Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN : C. See Kee,- Radolectris
b iles and rvices.
NEW ZEALANDi Hygeia Dissolvenator
Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE; British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Cham-
bers, Raffles Place.
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
?61bs.
f -m
& 1
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
HARDMAN & HALL,
44 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
Chemistry Serving Primary Industry
sdf
F u 7"l
Kro lotting and Tip Spraying §?s|
Preparation
->■
HU JET
PREVENTS BLOWFLY STRIKE
Manufactured by Australia’s largest producers of DDT.
TAUBMAH'S CHEMICALS PTY. LIMITED
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool-consumption Up
“C.S.”: World demand for
wool increased during 1952, and,
on latest figures, consumption
was running at an annual rate of
2260 million pounds (clean),
compared with a rate of 2050
million pounds at the low point
reached in the third-quarter of
1951.
Statistics provided by the
International Wool Study Group
show that wool-consumption in
11 of the chief manufacturing
countries touched the lowest
point of the recession in the
third-quarter of 1951, when it
was 338 million pounds (clean),
after which it rose progressively
to 380 million pounds in the
third-quarter of 1952.
Demand was within a narrow
margin of balancing world wool-
production for 1951-52 a
margin which might easily be
bridged by any further improve-
ment in consumption shown in
the fourth-quarter of 1952, for
which final figures are yet
awaited.
On the latest figures, the
U.S.A. remains the world’s
largest user of wool, with an
estimated consumption of 117
million pounds (clean) per
quarter, the United Kingdom
taking second-place with 92
million pounds and France third
with 47 million pounds. For the
next three places there is close
competition between Japan, 29.5
million pounds, German Re-
public, 28.7 million pounds, and
Italy, 26.5 million pounds. Japan
has nearly doubled her wool
consumption since early 1951.
For the time being, at least, the
foregoing seems to be an answer
to all the scare talk about
synthetic fibres.
N.Z. Methods
“Hortus”: There is a striking
similarity between climate, rain-
fall and soil of Canterbury Plain
and Hawkes Bay areas (N.Z.)
and of Walcha district (N.S.W.);
so A. S. Nivison, Mirani,
Walcha, is experimenting with
N.Z. methods of pasture-sowing
and -management over an area
of 100 acres.
Pasture mixture consists of
241 b. of “HI” rye, 81b. of cocks-
foot, 3ib. of N.Z. white-clover,
21b. of red-clover, with 2cwt.
super, to the acre. Time of
sowing was April. Cattle were
grazed on this sown area during
the past year. Paddock was
closed during late spring. Grass
over most of the area was cut
and baled for fodder-conserva-
tion this January, a small portion
being fenced-off and left uncut
for testing purposes. Now the
paddock is being supered at
2cwt. per acre, and grazing will
start again in the autumn.
Bee-lore
“J.F.”: There is no set time
for extracting honey, because
there is so much variation in the
occurrence of the nectar-flow,
but A. A. Clemson, N.S.W. Dept,
of Agriculture, says it is possible
to determine when a honey-flow
is occurring by observing the
flight of the field bees coming
into the hive. They have a full-
ness about them which is not
present at other times, their
flight is steadier, and some of the
heavier-laden bees misjudge their
distance and alight on the ground
near the hive entrance.
Also, a distinct aroma may
be detected, arising from the pro-
cessing of the new honey within
the hive.
The only sure guide to the pro-
gress in storage-work, and to
whether the honey is sufficiently
processed by the bees for extrac-
tion, is by regular inspections in-
side the hive during the active
working season,
A rather heavy loss in produc-
tion may qccur in the beginner’s
apiary through lack of confi-
dence in determining whether
honey should be extracted from
the hives or left with the bees
to prevent risk of them running
short of stores later on.
A simple solution is to extract
half the hives, leaving the rest
ample supplies. Later, if good
headway in storage is made in
the .extracted hives, the others
may be relieved of their surplus.
To keep the bees employed in
hives thus awaiting extraction an
additional super or two may be
given them.
Where only one hive is kept
it should be built up with not less
than two honey-storage supers ;
the honejr can then be extracted
from one super at a time, there
will be no loss in production, and
the colony will have a good
reserve against adverse seasonal
conditions.
A little additional caution in
reserving stores is necessary to-
wards winter and where the bees
are inclined to rob during mani-
pulation of the hives.
Beware Novelties
“Composto”: Don’t be
trapped into planting large areas
of “new” vegetables that crop-up
in seedsmen’s catalogues. Make
only small experimental plant-
ings and see how they go. Of a
number tried over the last few
years I’ve found only one that
I’ve wanted to keep.
Borage, “a tasty salad vege-
table, much favored in Europe,”
is a tongue-pricking, hairy-leaved
monstrosity which, because T
allowed two plants to go to seed,
is now a pest. “Delectable
perennial spinach” turned out to
be bitter-tasting and slightly less
palatable than boiled dock-leaves.
Clary, “that valuable seasoning
h'erb,” tasted like anaemic sage.
And as for tampala, the so-called
absolutely new “wonder three-
in-one vegetable,” after it had
spoiled a couple of meals for us
it was ignominiously rooted out.
But don’t miss perennial
“Nobody c'n sing ‘Trees' like Darkle.”
cabbage. It’s a successful intro-
duction that makes up for all the
failures. A row will yield a
heavy crop of cup-size cabbages
which taste like a cross between
Brussels-sprouts and cabbage,
and in such numbers that they
justify their nickname of “ninety-
headed cabbage.” Feed them
plenty of animal-manure and
keep them dusted against the
white cabbage-moth, and they’ll
keep you supplied over seven or
eight months of the year for the
three or four years of their
bearing life.
Cattle-dogs
“Blue Heeler”; As a life-
long breeder and trainer of Aus-
tralian cattle-dogs I rise to
denounce the statement by an
Aboriginalities writer (B.
4/2/’53) that all these dogs know
is how to bite, duck and get
away.
The blue-dogs can be trained
to work both cattle and sheep
and are just as intelligent and
amenable to discipline as any
working-dog. Some samples:
One I bred would go and get the
horses when told to get the
horses or get the cows when told
to get the cows, though all were
in the same paddock. One buyer
wrote: “My blue-dog works very
steady and bites very low and
never barks. He is a breed I
could recommend to any man
for stock-work. At present I
have no cattle-work for him and
take him out amongst sheep to
give him a run and he works
very well on sheep, never bites
them and is very handy with
young lambs.”
And how about this? “My
blue cattle-dog could do any-
thing with stock but open and
shut gates. He used to bring 50
Muscovy-ducks up from the
creek every night for the wife
and pen them up. He would
mind the baby and care for my
little girl (two years old) and stop
her from wandering down to the
creek ; he somehow used to get
his tail around her and urge hel-
lo face up home, then work her
right back to the house.”
Growing Peas
“Springvale”: First essential
for a pea-crop is deep cultiva-
tion on moisture-holding soil
well-drained through the sub-
soil ; roots can then penetrate
deeply for moisture, even in
driest seasons.
Sow in flat-bottomed drills
6in. to Sin. wide and 2in. to 3in.
deep. Space the seeds singly in
two or three rows, 2in. to 3in.
apart each way—about 20 seeds
to the foot. For late sowings
and in dry districts arrange the
depth of the drill so that .the
surface will remain below the
level of the surrounding ground
after the seeds have been covered
with 2in. of soil. This assists the
collection of rainwater and
allows room for a deep mulch.
Among pests is the pea-weevil,
which hardly waits for the plants
to break surface before attack-
ing. A weekly dusting with
D.D.T., preferably in the early
morning, will combat this and
other insect pests. An occasional
derris-dusting will protect the
young plants from greenfly.
Thrips may cause damage in
very dry seasons ; nicotine-dust
or spray checks their activities.
Crops are more than doubled
when pea-vines are supported.
The so-called dwarf varieties are
easily beaten flat with heavy
rains and strong winds; the
undermost peas become dirty
and smothered, often becoming
mildewed and unfit for market-
ing. No matter what the variety,
heavier and better-quality crops
result when supports are pro-
vided. I use wire-netting mainly,
but short tea-tree sticks placed
fairly close together along each
row are just as effective.
Peas don’t like cold water in
warm weather. If the soil is
properly prepared, it should
retain its moisture for a sub-
stantial period during dry
weather. Given good mulching
after rain, artificial watering
should not be necessary.
Mammitis in Ewes
“Farmer Bill”: Mammitis can
go quickly through a flock and
cause heavy losses. A small
organism, micrococcus of rivolta,
that makes its way to the gland
by way of the teat-channels,
works the mischief.
Healthy ewes are smitten sud-
denly. They separate from the
flock and refuse to eat or suckle
their lambs. Generally they
appear to be in pain and some
lameness may set in. The udder
is swollen and hot, and the ewe
suffers if it is touched. The gan-
grene stage is indicated by violent
blotches on the skin, putrid dis-
charges from the teat and, later,
sloughing-off of the affected
udder. Death may occur within
a few hours or the ewe may
linger for a week. Recovery is
rare.
Act swiftly. Healthy animals
must be separated from diseased
ones and moved to other pad-
docks. Lambs of affected ewes
must be poddied.
One treatment is to lance the
gland deeply in two or three
places and pack Condy’s-crystais
and cottonwool into the cuts. A
wide swathe of cloth, placed over
the part, passed around the body
and tied not too tightly, will hold
the packs in place.
Best form of control is to keep
a wary eye on the health of the
ewes and cull out every suspect.
Storing Pumpkins
“H.C.”: Pumpkins from early-
sown crops which have ripened
slowly store best. Immature,
badly-bruised or frost-injured
specimens easily develop mould.
Choose the well-matured ones
with ironbark skins which are
hard to nick with a sharp pen-
knife and cut from the vine with
three inches of stem attached.
Cure before storing by placing
them on an iron roof in the sun
for two or three weeks. As well
as hardening them off, this pro-
cess heals and dries minor in-
juries.
Slatted shelves in a dry and
airy shed or room make the
ideal storage-space. Even then
regular inspection is needed to
spy out symptoms of mould.
Bush Hay
“B-gar”: Bush-hay—there’s
been a lot of it about lately—
has a high fodder-value, and
much that goes to waste in good
seasons could be conserved. The
grass should not be too mature,
but should be cut when the
plants are in flower and while
the leaves are still succulent.
After cutting,, the hay should
not be allowed to remain in the
paddock longer than five or six
days unless it contains too much
moisture. If rain enforces cart-
ing-in and stacking, salt thrown
over the hay as it is being
stacked will obviate loss through
overheating. About 121 b. to 151 b.
of salt to the ton will do.
If the stuff is left too long


FRENCH
ICORN CUREI
Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
[Anthony Horderns’ |
from A FAMOUS FAMIL
MS
I
Australian-Manufactured heavy-duty-engineered
International Trucks
Here they are the four Australian-made members of
the famous International truck family. They've proved
themselves on every job —that's why truck operators
everywhere have acclaimed them.
Like every International they're "all truck" from the
ground up. This means extra power and stamina for
the tough jobs, plus long life, low operating and
maintenance costs.
Make a feature by feature comparison with any other
truck and see for yourself. Your International Harvester
district office or dealer will gladly tell you why
International is your best truck investment.
CHOOSE FROM THESE MODELS
AL-110 UTILITY.
15 ewt.; 115" W. 8.; o.h.v.
engine; 220 cu. in. displace-
ment; max. h.p., 100; max.
torque, 173.5 Ibs.-ft.
AL-160 MEDIUM-HEAVY.
4-5 ton; 154" and 172"
W. 8.; o.h.v. engine; 240 cu.
in. displacement; max. h.p.,
108; max. torque, 192 Ibs.-ft.
AL-130 LIGHT TRUCK.
30 cwt.; 134" W. 8.; o.h.v.
engine; 220 cu. in. displace*
ment; max. hup., 100; max.
torque, 173.5 Ibs.-ft.
AL-162 MEDIUM-HEAVY.
5-6 ton; 154" and 172"
W. 8.; o.h.v. engine; 240 cu.
in. displacement; max. h.p.,
108; max. torque, 192 Ibs.-ft.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
TRUCKS
• A»V(t1«X
Dandenong Works,
Victoria.
in the paddocks it becomes over-
cured and thus loses a lot of its
nutriment; it should contain at
least 12 to 15 per cent, of
moisture. Under normal con-
ditions the hay may be carted
in and stacked two or three days
after cutting as long as it is
salted whilst being stacked.
Where a big quantity is to be
harvested a press will pay for
itself ; apart from baled hay
requiring a smaller stacking-area
it is easily transported during
drought periods.
No Demand
“A.8.T.”: There would appear
to be no demand in this country
for the corn-fed steer (Australia
v. Argentine, B. 7/1/’53). Last
year a stall-fed two-year-old
steer was sold in the local yards
at the same price per pound as
grass-fed steers of the same
weight.
The butchers said that they
were only interested in weight,
not quality.
Last month, really prime 6001 b.
steers topped off on mature oats
were sold in the paddock at the
same price as grass-fed steers.
Night-grazing
“Archaps”; Dairy-cattle
should be placed on the best
pasture at night and early
morning to give high production
under tropical conditions, ac-
cording to two authorities work-
ing as far apart as Fiji and the
Brisbane Valley.
In Fiji it was found that
management techniques origi-
nating in the temperate zone
gave poor results. Six grade
Friesian cows on a research-
station were run with the station
herd, but each cow was observed
at five-minute intervals, for 24-
hour periods, at monthly inter-
vals for 12 months. As soon as
afternoon milking was ended—
from 3.30 p.m, to 4.30 p.m.—
the observed cows grazed con-
tinuously for three to four
hours, then rested one or two
hours, and, after bowel-relief,
recommenced grazing. This
procedure continued through-
out the night, but towards morn-
ing the grazing-periods became
shorter and the resting-periods
longer.
About 3 a.m. grazing ceased,
and the cows rested until 5 a.m.
milking. After milking, the cows
again grazed immediately, and
continued intermittently until
about 1 p.m. At night the cows
spent 19 per cent, of the rest-
period near shade-trees, but in
the daytime 66 per cent, of this
period was spent in the shade.
In Queensland J. Schlecht,
Lark Hill, via Walloon, noticed
that milk-production was higher
when cows were kept in good
grass paddocks at night,
especially in hot weather.
Lark Hill comprises 120 acres
of 13 paddocks, 75 acres being
cultivated. Bligh oats were fed
off four times in 1952, the pad-
dock being shut up three weeks
at a time ; all paddocks were fed
in rotation as night- and day-
paddocks. No heavy rain has
fallen on the property for 21
months. For the year ended
June 30 last cream- and milk-
production was : 29591 b. cream,
£534 ss. ; 7479ga15. milk,
£1044 9s. Bd. No concentrate
was used for the average of 26
milking cows. Lucerne on 18
acres is mowed, and when not
of sufficient quality for mowing
it is grazed off.
A Charcoal-cooler
“Jumbuck”: Anyone beyond
the reach of ice or refrigerator
will find a charcoal “ice-chest”
handy. It is necessary to be
assured of charcoal; if there’s
timber it can easily be burnt.
To a wooden box a well-
fitting lid with leather hinges
should be attached, and in the
bottom and sides of the box
numbers of £in. holes should be
bored to permit the flow of cool
air.
With the box ready, a frame
of ample dimensions, with four
legs, should be knocked up;
the sides of the frame about a
foot higher than the depth of
the box. The frame should be
about 18in, wider and deeper
than the box, its floor and sides
made of bird-netting.
pin the bottom of the frame
w ith charcoal to a depth of
about 9in., then place the box
on top of the charcoal. Next
fill in the sides with charcoal
till the lid of the box is reached.
Drench the charcoal with water
until it is well soaked. Food (or
bottled beer) can then be placed
in the box and a wet bag placed
over the lid. At night and
several times during hot days
more water should be poured
over the charcoal. Some coarse
salt amongst the charcoal will
assist in cooling.
Hints for the Farm
“Spes”: From the rare
minerals rutile and ilmenite,
recovered from heavy beach-
sands in N. S. Wales and Queens-
land, comes butyl titanate, which,
when added to paints, will resist
temperatures to 1000 deg. F.
Suitable for painting metals,
glass and concrete, it will enhance
the life of heat-generating
machinery, especially locomotive
furnaces. It is resistant to salt-
water and corrosion.
“D.J.H.”: The record for a
milch-goat goes to a Saanen doe
owned by Mrs. L. A. Frose, of
Wahroonga (N.S.W.). . Under
official test of 365 days, she pro-
duced 42001 b. milk, 4.1 per cent.,
average test and 172.431 b.
butterfat, commencing at the age
of one year and 282 days. A
pedigree animal, she was sired
by the imported Patrick of
Delamere, noted for high-
producing progeny.
“Billjim”: Adequate watering
of pot-plants is often overlooked.
Plants in pots should receive the
equivalent of between 100 and
150 inches of rainfall in a year.
Necessity for watering can be
judged by feeling the soil every
day or so. If the soil leaves no
mark on the skin after the fore-
finger has been drawn across it
it is too dry. If it leaves a muddy
mark the plant has ample water
for at least a further couple of
days. When watering fill pot to
brim.
“Sundowner”: To help trees
resist drought, fence them
securely against stock and rab-
bits ; plough and fallow the
ground for 12 months before
planting ; plant from mid-August
to mid-September; select trees
suited to dry country; plant
small tube-grown trees firmly,
treading down soil close around
tree; give at least one gallon of
water to each tree immediately
after planting and make sure it
penetrates to the subsoil by
pouring into a saucer-shaped de-
pression 2in. to 3in. deep and
about 2ft. across; cultivate
around the -trees the day after
watering before ground dries
out; do not give any more water
even in the driest summer
months; keep ground around
trees clean of grass and weeds ,
cultivate the area between trees
two or three times each year for
two or three years.
“Billjim”: As a general rule
aim to apply an inch of water to
the garden each week. This is
equivalent to about 800 gallons
on a 30ft.-by-50ft. area. Divide
the garden so that a particular
crop or group of crops is
watered each time. As potatoes
mature lessen the moisture appli-
cation to guard against second
growth and discontinue watering
onions and related crops when
they are drying-off.
“Farmer Bill”: A pony being
drenched for worms should first
be starved for about 12 hours.
The dose should consist of a pint
of linseed-oil and loz. of oil-of-
turpentine well shaken up. Keep
the mixture shaken during
drenching. Four hours after-
wards feed a small bran-mash.
Next day revert to the ordi-
nary ration. The pony can have
all the water it needs during the
starvation period and three hours
after drenching.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Late in February light to moderate occasional showers
are likely in the south-east of the continent. The rains
in Centralia are distinctly part of the cycle though the
records are confined to the overland telegraph-line. In the
tropics further rains and floods are indicated this autumn.


statements. “Rubbo, you will
never paint the Masterpiece.
They will come and find you
dead. Who will care? No one.”
The Professor confirmed that
also with a nod.
Having got all that off his
chest, Rubbo picked up his
guitar and sang a merry Italian
air, “Ah, he likes that,” Rubbo
said as She sang gaily to the
Professor, who was swaying
slightly with closed eyes and
smiling faintly.
When Rubbo laid down the
guitar the Professor rose, and,
bowing from the waist, left me
to do the washing-up.
“He was a great fencing-
master in Italy, He left there
with a broken heart when the
girl he loved married someone
else,” Rubbo told me, and added,
“Ah, Rubbo, you must never
have the broken heart.”
I posed every Sunday morn-
ing for about three months for
Dr. Macarthy, who lived, and
had his surgery, in a narrow
three-storeyed terrace-house near
the corner of Elizabeth- and
Bathurst-street,
He worked in his library, in
which was a full-length, life-size
painting of Sarah Bernhardt,
seated, wearing satin, amidst
flaming drapes, which he told me
he had painted from memory.
He moulded a nude figure
about three feet high from a
mass of green plasticine, on a
swivel stand, while I posed in
an attitude of repudiation—one
hand outstretched, the other
upraised.
He was a gentle-voiced little
man, thin and nearing fifty years.
He had drooping eyelids and a
carefully combed soft beard, and
worked in a long frock-coat.
Gerald Marr Thompson came
sometimes to inspect the work
while I posed, and praised it.
The doctor valued Gerald Marr’s
criticism, as he was art and
music critic for the “Sydney
Morning Herald.”
When it was nearly completed
Helen and Armond Jerome came
with their small daughter to see
the statue. They were very
enthusiastic, and the doctor left
me in the pose while he went
out of the room. He came back
staggering under the weight of
a huge, fat, green, coiled plasti-
cine snake which I had to step
into, taking the neck in one
hand and the middle in the other
to show them how the statue
would look when finished. In
spite of the doctor’s assistance
in holding part of the snake, I
felt it slipping, and gripped it
more firmly. The fanged head
came off in my hand, and the
rest slid to the floor with a
plonk.
This brought forth words of
condolence from Helen and
Almond, but they exchanged
amused glances when the doctor
went out of the room to get
something else he wanted to
show them. It was a bust of
Mark Foy in a yachting cap. He
was, at that time, commodore of
the Royal Yacht Club, and a
particularly handsome man.
Many years later Mark Foy
called on us at Springwood. I
asked what had happened to the
bust with the yachting cap. He
couldn’t remember: thought that
it might be in the store-room at
Medlow. He was on his way
there, and would look it up. He
hotly denied that it had a cap
on it. It certainly did when I
saw it. Perhaps the doctor
removed it later.
Nelson Illingworth had a
studio in a lane behind a draper’s
shop on Brickfield Hill. To
reach it, one had to pass through
the draper’s shop to the back-
yard, tken through the Illing-
worth kitchen, where there was
sure to be an argument going
on between his daughters about
the washing-up, while Mrs.’
Illingworth sat at the end of
the table in black taffeta fan-
ning herself, completely indif-
ferent to the row between the
two good-looking, plump girls.
Their mother was good-look-
ing, too ; of the plump, Spanish
type, with dark, oiled hair drawn
smoothly back to a knob at the
nape of her neck. She had
languid brown eyes, which she
closed in restful repose as she
fanned herself with a sheet of
music while the girls splashed
water and banged dishes down.
They were a musical family,
and the kitchen was littered with
sheets of music. Nelson Junior
sometimes walked through the
kitchen in complete aloofness;
tall, thin and pale, with a far-
away look in his eyes, he would
come to earth with a start when
spoken to, bend graciously to
listen, nod an answer and go on
his way.
Pa Nelson was very proud of
his son and his musical ability.
They were all proud of each
other, and a very friendly family
—once the washing-up was
done, I often tucked up my
sleeves and did it for them
before going on to the studio,
which was an indescribable
muddle of benches covered with
clay, plaster-of-Paris moulds
and wet rags, from which Nelson
would rise in a white smock,
beaming and tossing his great
mane of hair as he shook my
hand vigorously with a fist full
of clay.
He was a stocky little man
with an enormous head, which
he shook and tossed like a dog
worrying a bone all the time
he worked, standing back from
his work with a handful of clay,
throwing his head aside with
half-closed eyes and aiming the
clay like a cricketer with a ball,
so neatly that it landed on the
statue exactly where he intended.
One could not help wondering,
with the amount of bounding,
dancing and throwing that he
went on with while working)
why his statues were such solid,
stationary things when finished.
Maybe it was due to withstand-
ing his bombardment, for they
all stood firmly on their feet,
looking fixedly to the future, in
frock-coats.
Of course he did a nude of
me, kneeling and looking to the
heavens. I often stole a side-
glance at Mrs. Illingworth when
she brought her knitting and sat
through the afternoon.
Loved I not
honour more
By NANCY KEESING
RICIA woke early and
| blinked into a beam of
I sun which had found its
way between the slates of
the vcnetian-blind. Motes of
dust whirled round in its light.
She saw them, heard them, as
notes of music; and the notes
assembled into a tune, the tune
into words.
When Edward opened his
shortsighted eyes she was lean-
ing on her elbow humming
quietly to herself. The tune was
“Greensleeves,” but the words
within her mind were “I could
not love thee, dear, so much,
lov’d I not honor more.” This
was as far as she knew, so she
repeated the phrase over and
over to the melody. It was very
amusing.
Edward reached across her,
cupping his hand on her warm
shoulder, and took his spectacles
from the bedside-table. He put
them on.
“Now I can see you,” he said.
“What are you smiling about?”
“I was thinking,” ’Tricia told
him in her low trickly voice,
“that I’ve never kissed anyone
who wore glasses before,”
“Shall I take them off?”
Edward asked. “But just let me
look at you again.” She lay
back, stretching. Her fair
straight hair spread over the
pillow falling back from her
tiny, mischievous face.
“I don’t dare to look,” he said.
“I’ll remove my specs.”
“No, don’t,” she said. “They
remind me of Lucas.”
“Lucas?” he frowned so that
the lines of shortsight on his
forehead and about his brown
eyes took on the emphasis of a
row of interrogation-marks on
a printed page. “Lucas?”
“A boy I knew at school. He
was terribly clever, too, darl-
ing”—she pulled his ears—“and
he wore glasses. I adored him ;
adoV: ic.”
'But y i said you’d never
kissed a-* re with glasses.”
“No, I adn’t. Poor Lucas.
No . yoi‘ row my tragedy. Oh,
Edward, lieve me, I had no
intention of boring you with the
story of my life. I shall make
coffee.”
TTE sat up and watched closely
as she emerged lazily from
the sheets and .pulled on her
flowered nylon wrap. It was
quite transparent, and made no
alteration to her except to her
enhancement. She was delicious.
When she left the room he lay
back to think about her.
’Tricia was not what he had
expected at all. The other men
in the office were, he decided,
singularly and boorishly unap-
preciative. She was as original,
daring and entirely delightful as
her own witty fabric-designs. No
wonder she was so highly paid,
no wonder she could afford this
attractive weekend beach cot-
tage. No wonder... She was
more original, daring, etc., etc.
“Wake up, sleepyhead!
Coffee. Beach. Hmm.”
Now she wore a bathing cos-
tume with a matching coat. It
had a design of unicorns printed
all over it. Unicorns and other
things.
“Great Anacreon! Here, let
me have a look.”
“Do you like it? I blocked
it myself. My more successful
designs are never commercial
propositions. That is another of
my tragedies. Oh, Edward, life
is sometimes very sad.”
“It is dismal,” he agreed.
“You’ve gone and dressed,” he
reproached her.
'T'HERE was no one else on
the beach. They surfed and
sunbaked all morning.
“I have to be careful,” said
Edward. “I get a nasty burn.”
He arranged a towel over his
legs.
“I’m sure you do.” She, of
course, in spite of her fair hair
and blue eyes, took on, while
he watched, a deeper and deeper
golden tan.
“To think,” he told her, “that
I fought and fought against
this.”
“I know. My reputation!”
“Yes. You never trouble with
discretion, do you?”
“Why should I? But I felt
my reputation dreadfully; such
a nuisance ; all the time it was
bothering you, Edward darling.
All the time your eyes were
nearly splintering the lenses out
of those marvellous spectacles.”
“It’s not, ’Tricia, that the other
men say nasty things about you.
They.,.”
“Oh, I know! ” She opened
her eyes very wide and looked
at -him blandly and innocently,
“They all have an affection.
Yes, an affection. I have for
them, too. Barry: such a dear
and quite amazing in spite of
being lame. Peter: my good-
ness, so tall. There’s something
freakish about a man of six-
foot-ten, isn’t there? Robert:
so short. And the others. Every
person in the whole world—
different. So diverse it makes
fingerprinting seem purely un-
reliable in comparison with
other singularities.”
pDWARD laughed and lit a
cigarette. The forefinger of
his free hand traced the outline
of one of the unicorns. His
hand curved across her back.
“ Tricia?” *
“Edward?”
married”
lt j mD JL le Unfair „
Impossibie. Unfair
, Risky, I know. But a fair
risk. Why, after all the years
you’ve come full-circle, haven’t
you? Lucas and spectacles are
at last resolved.”.
“Dearest, there is another
disappointment I have to con-
fess. When I was a small girl
a neighbor who abso-
lutely fascinated me. Don’t look
distressed, Edward. He was a
very good man. A church-
warden, in fact. With a remark-
able black beard. I used to
wonder whether he had a month
at all.”
“I’d grow a beard for you
sweetest,” he offered rashly!
“No. No.” Her voice warm
but so lost. Infinitely regretful
“ A bea rd would not suit vou
An embarrassment of riches
an d, besides. ”
“Ah, ’Tricia i”
“Yes, the new man in the
cinema-advertising department
Perhaps you’ve met him?”
6 6T HAVE,” he admitted; and
A realised his loss, “I’ve
never seen such a beard in my
life.”
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 213
Across.
I—Put1 —Put the woman in a saucepan
with a fuss. (6)
4 —Pig parent and a negative Cake-
day. (8)
10 — Haggard rents in apparel. (9)
11 — He gives Giovanni an alternative.
(5)
12 — Hoot for a Roman emperor. (4)
13 — Craziest honesty in the allu-
at is a thoroughfare.
(8)
15—-Lay ;’emt of a monastery with
• < oi peel figure. (6)
16 Arkwright son has a preliminary
c; usaticis or Pjtt. (7)
19— -Republican rooking a bit of a
bounder. (3)
20 — Tell too many fibs and smother
a bowling spell by Trygve. (7)
21 — The French you introduced to
the kissing point flowers. (6)
23 —Pop’s fur is above failure. (8)
25 —Part of a play on a saints’ deeds.
(4)
27—Beast is all right with a Greek
letter. (5)
28 — Split second timer is to discon-
tinue sentry duty. (4-5)
29 — Any hag at the ingredients of
this Turkish dagger. (8)
30 — Come here and strike the woman.
(6)
Down.
1 — Hamlet when mature, and over
age, gets the bird. (6)
2 Disorderly beach lout can be
“bitten.” (9)
3 Dons nosebag. (4)
5 Thrush from Seoul. (5)
6 This makes me kick the bucket
against a colleague in a middle-
aged manner. (10)
7 Snareless ensemble. (5)
8 — Enclosure equips itself with
weapons and beams upon a ship.
(4-4)
9 Place for the rest before four
and before the witness of Arthur’s
departure for Avalon. (8)
14—Filling up a globe with a bite.
(10)
16 — Negro about to cultivate a
dance crib with the sick leg. (8)
17 — Game Mac, bound over. (9)
18—Conserve a conservative addicted
to drink with Murphy for a start.
(8 >
22 — Clubwoman is a swimmer. (6)
23 — Pigtail mount upset it. (5)
24 Sailing astray. (2, 3)
26 —German couple. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 212


I) J.
'h
N I
.rvTrc.*' '■■
' .nJ WO
HI
v\-;
•VJ> '*3 V. •
; v <
as
s/c-
HASUKCS DIfSEIS
m
- '-Fr.'..
tv s* > ;
Sc 'V k' ■.
■ *»
••••*; ;- i-r,'v,'■/.’>’^.V
:v£
M
y. 9
«.;.f s
m
:v^>sv?:Vv-
/:'
&
V -■. / •./'■•/■•‘/.v:,:
. : '..>/•,; .'''.Vi
• ' #”•:./ n:
: * ,v• j v*
lies northward...
Thinking Australians realise that the State offering greatest opportunity for the
expansion of primary production and greatest encouragement for investment is
Queensland, where national development is our national defence.
ur Opportuniti| in Queensland’s Expansion
■ • ’ ... •
; ' . •••■■>
GOO
4
ds
Hastings Diesels Limited has now added the State
of Queensland to its area of representation for
the great Caterpillar Tractor Co. This represen-
tation now covers practically the entire Pacific
basin, and is one of the largest Caterpillar Dealer-
ships in the world.
In Queensland, which will figure so prominently in
the near-future food drive for Australia, Hastings
Diesels has added the representation of the world-
famous John Deere Tractors and agricultural
implements to this wholly owned subsidiary.
The opportunity to win sure and regular dividends
from these vast, expanding activities is offered
you with the 170,000 ordinary shares at £1 each
in Hastings Diesels Limited.
m
Hastings Peering Building, William Street, SYDNEY
Phone M 0412 (33 lines!
HIGHLY SUCCESSFUL INVESTMENT ASSURED
in The Hastings Deering Group of Companies.
Regular dividends have now returned 100% to original
investors.
The first 100,000 shares in Hastings Diesels Limited
were taken up by the Shareholders in our group
of companies within two weeks of publication of
the prospectus.
Hastings Deering's have themselves taken up
£325,000 of the original authorised capital.
CATTLE PROPERTY: 50-year leases for 2,600
square miles adjacent to Alice Springs.
COUPON FOR APPLICATION FORM
The Secretary,
Hastings Diesels Limited,
William Street, Sydney.
Please forward me Prospectus for your new issue
of ordinary shares.
My name
Address
HASTINGS DIESELS PROFITS
PROFITS
1950 .. .. £8,136
1951 .. .. £11,790
1952 .. .. £48,779
Capital = £lOO,OOO
DIVIDENDS
State


-'■Tv.
an
'noepenoe*,;
.. SERVICE C* ? "T
■
ST AT|Q
- 1
■’■■■
m
SL.:jS|
■ iJi-f
Ss.cS
mmi
St
tw?
a
a
m
<*■
ylmft'M'
A N
INDEPENDENT
SERVICE STATION
Choice of
the People!
My
Customers
like* • •
<<
I
iitiiitiniMimniiii'initn'iimi'
.unuiniini
i ii™
Smmmniii mini min
>»
~in in nininini
ii i m in n mi
iiiiiiiintiittJ*
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD . . . ALL S-TATES
■ cmfe
