

FOR PORT WINE OF , BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
SEA-DREDGED TREASURE
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3826
Wednesday, June 10, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydn y, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission fay Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
WESTMINSTER ABBEY—VIEW FROM THE HIGH ALTAR
DURING the Coronation ceremony of Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth 11,
this view from the High Altar to the West door will long remain in the
memory of those who were present to witness the glittering and impressive
scene. The priceless jewels in the Royal Regalia, the coronets and the rich
robes of the assembled company were reflected in the soft lights of the
Abbey.
For centuries, Westminster Abbey was the storehouse of the Regalia—
ever since its foundation in 1042 until June 3rd, 1643, during the days of the
Long Parliament who authorized the republican, Henry Marten, to force the
doors of the Abbey and take an inventory of the contents of the Treasury.
Accordingly he entered the Abbey and forced open the great iron chest and
removed the crowns, the robes, the sword and sceptre belonging to Edward
the Confessor; he declared “that there would be no further use of these
toys and trifles.” They were, however, taken to the Tower of London, where,
in 1649, by order of Parliament they were broken down and sold for the
weight of the metal. . ..
Consequently the absence of any Regalia delayed the Coronation ot
Charles II for eleven months while new Royal emblems were being fashioned,
the cost of which amounted to £32,000. .
Since the Restoration, the Regalia have remained heavily guarded ini the
Tower of London and on Coronation eve they are brought to the Abbey
in State coaches with an escort of cavalry. On arrival at the Abbey they
are set out in the Jerusalem Chamber, where they remain under the careipt
the Dean and Chapter, and guarded by Yeomen Warders from the lower of
London until the following morning when, with impressive ceremony, they are
delivered by the Collegiate body to the Lord Great Chamberlain.


HOME-STUDY COURSES...
STOTTS can prepare you—in your OWN
HOME—for a SUCCESSFUL CAREER or
for PROMOTION in your present sphere.
Mail the Coupon today.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses' Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
-CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON—
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in—
MY SAME
ADDRESS
(S 8.353) ..... AGE
Nearly Everybody Who is Anybody
Reads . , .
THE PORT
PHILLIP GAZETTE
Australia's Brightest Review
The Autumn issue of this 64-page,
pocket-size journal is now available
(Price, 2/6) from all leading book-
sellers, or direct from
THE RISING SUN PRESS,
192 Canterbury Road, Canterbury,
Melbourne, Australia.
UPPER MURRAY NOVEL
Elyne Mitchell’s first novel Flow River.
Blow Wind (Australasian Publishing Co.),
set in the cattle-country of the upper
Murray and the alpine snow-leases, is
not unlike a sequel to the Brent of Bin
Bin saga, in a rather thinner vein, carry-
ing the picture of the squattocracy on to
the period of World War II and beyond
it.
A small but pleasing development from
Brent of Bin Bin’s writings, where the
countryside and its flowers and trees are
usually roughed-in in nostalgic (and
lovely) generalisations, is that here the
candlebarks and ribbon-gums, and the
wildflowers that star the alpine pastures,
are named and intimately described. It
is an indication, no doubt, of an increas-
ing sympathy with the Australian environ-
ment ; and it is the only way in which
Australian writing can take on the rich-
ness of English pastoral prose, which is
studded with the names of wildflowers —
most of them, incidentally, minute by
comparison with the lavish displays to
be found in the unspoiled Australian
bush.
The strength of Flow River, Blow Wind
lies, precisely, in this descriptive quality:
Even the angry dust of clouds that
covered the sky could not entirely dim the
freshness of the snowgrass that stretched
for miles, nor the water-glint in all the
little creeks down on Pretty Plain. The
mob took a long time to reach the paddock
round the Pretty Plain hut. They browsed
on the sweet grass, nibbled the herbage,
drank at the clear, cold streams. Their
hooves bruised the little dog-violets and
brushed by mountain-milkwort. Small
white daisies were crushed to the ground.
On the other side they rode through a
knee-high sea of golden and brown bitter-
pea. Joseph watched it froth and foam
past their legs—the little pea-shaped flowers
catch in the boots and stirrups.
If this reviewer has one small complaint
to make about the description of the
countryside, that there is not enough of
the trout-fishing in these glorious moun-
tain streams —the subject is mentioned
often, but not in sufficient detail—that
is perhaps a private matter; in any case,
very minor. The opening description of
driving the cattle up from the drought-
stricken lowlands to the high and flower-
ing snow-leases is captivating. So are
many other excursions around Toolong
and the Inkbottle, Geehi, Disappointment
Spur and Jagungal—names which Mrs.
Mitchell recites like a litany—as the
various characters in the novel ride the
main tops, mustering their cattle.
And if Mrs. Mitchell has described the
mountains before, memorably and beauti-
fully in Australia’s Alps, and does not
add very much here to what she has said
or could say in a documentary book, the
novel gives her an opportunity to describe
the life and people of the cattle-stations
with an intimacy that would be hardly
possible except in the mask of fiction.
Festival dinners where the wine is served
in lalique glasses; a house where an
altar is set up for church services; par-
ties, women in beautiful dresses, the
interchange of visits between station and
station ; pockets of culture where it is
possible to discuss the poetry of T. S.
Eliot and David Campbell as well as
cattle and the neighbors: all this, with
the riding and swimming and fishing,
and the labor of harvesting and branding
in the heat, gives a true and fine picture
of station-life.
The people are slightly idealised in their
station settings. The human truth of
self-interest is never allowed to qualify
°ther truth of patriotism in which
they grow beef for Britain. But the
absence of the usual Australian prejudice
against wealth and success, and the per-
vading presence of. love for the land,
together with the accuracy of description,
give a warm and convincing life to the
picture as a whole.
The story on which these descriptions
are carried is of a returned-soldier, Joseph,
who has come back to find that he is
estranged from his beautiful young wife,
not from any fault of hers but because
of some war-neurosis. They have to find
their love again before the novel can
end.
Though there needs to be more strength
and variety in the sub-plots, it is a theme
which could very well make an interest-
ing novel; but it fails, to a degree, to
sustain interest or carry conviction as
Mrs. Mitchell has handled it, because
everything characters, dialogue and
psychology alike—is lifted onto too high
a plane of mysticism. With all the
characters talking practically the same
kind of semi-poetic jargon it is hard to
distinguish one from another, and there
is no real substance in the explanation
of Joseph’s neurosis, that he is in love
with some dream-lady representing—it is
not quite clear which—a girl he met in
the Middle East or a symbol of the
Western Desert. He fastens this dream-
love on a girl named Pamela and a
triangle situation develops; but everything
>? mai f Pr ?“ y dreamS '- 11 is si B nificant
that there IS not a single scene in which
the husband and wife really get down to
discussing their nrohlem in rdnin and
™ prODlem in plain and
practical terms.
Mrs. Mitchell’s pantheism, which really
i s much closer to Wordsworth than to
u; tc e i,_ r , r
, . s Eliot she IS SO fond of
analysing, is an excellent philosophy on
which to base any writings of the
countryside ; but unless the characters
are going to be turned into the wild
hobgoblins of J. C. Powys, conceived and
acce pted as fantasy, the philosophy
should never be imposed on & em so as
to destroy their everyday realit xhey
should be allowed to be themselves. Mrs.
Mitchell has taken a simple human situa-
tion and lost it more or less i n the
clouds. But there should be enough solid
eartb j n the mountain landscapes, as well
as in the human drama underlying the
unreal treatment, to carry most readers
with pleasure through the book,
The Red Page
Mud Houses
Build Your House of Earth , by G. F.
Middleton (Angus and Robertson), is an
excellent manual written for the amateur
and professional builder by an enthusiast
for pise and adobe construction who also
happens to be a technical officer of the
Commonwealth Experimental Building
Station, North Ryde, N.S.W.
Mr. Middleton provides answers to
most of the questions that would occur
to the mind of the amateur home-builder
who sets out to build in mudbrick and
pise, and he traces the history of this
magnificent building-material from its
early origins in arid regions devoid of
forests to its use in the chateaux of
France and in the farmhouses, manor-
houses and even palaces of England.
He hasn’t much to say about its history
in Australia, though it is a long one.
When Hume and Hovell looked down
from the mountains on the Victorian
plain, Hume, after testing the earth,
noted in his journal that the first settlers
would certainly build in mudbrick. Some
of them did —the present writer owns a
mudhouse 97 years old and as sound as
when it was erected —but macadamised
roads and synthetic factory-made
materials soon spelt the doom of earth-
construction in Australia as it did in
England.
Sir Edward Lutyens tried to revive
pise and mudbrick after the First World
War in England, where the building-
material shortage was much like it was in
Australia after the Second World War.
He said he was defeated by the trade-
unions and the master-builders affiliated
with the big businesses like the timber-
merchants and the fibro-cement manu-
facturers.
Using a recipe he got from Pliny,
Justus Jorgensen, the artist, revived it
near Melbourne in 1935 for purely
aesthetic purposes, though his choice of
mudbrick was economically determined.
Then, during the post-war building frenzy
when the conventional building-materials
went off the market, hundreds of home-
builders started; and now, according to
Mr. Middleton, there are at least 10,000
earth-houses in the country, though most
shire-councils still cling to their pre-
judices against them.
Some of us near Melbourne started
certain buildings but had to stop when
the war broke out in the Pacific. The
walls were exposed to all sorts of weather
for six years and were absolutely un-
affected ; but people said that mud could
not be used in our district because it
was too wet. It has been used for cen-
turies in Burgundy and England, which
are far wetter.
By means of a drag-saw we felled
some of the gum-trees in our paddock,
sold some of the timber for firewood and
thus paid for the cost of clearing and
made a profit, obtained all the building-
timber we needed and improved the look
of the paddock. A few unskilled work-
men and an excavator in a couple of
weeks produced so much building-
material that it would have absolutely
astounded the Post-war Reconstruc-
tionists who were desperately trying to
cajole material out of Canada and Nor-
way. The buildings that were put up
comprised 70 rooms—almost a small
village—and the materials cost us next to
nothing.
I have been in parts of Europe where
kings’ palaces are built of mud, but the
average citizen in my district would still
feel belittled if he lived in a house which
people called a mud house.
Even roofs can be made of mudbrick
with a bituminised surface and they are
more durable and far cooler than gai-
vanised-iron or tiles. Roots and door-
ways can be arched and a new note
brought into the monotony of amnestic
architecture. All that was needed was
a pick and shovel or an excava.or and
unskilled labor ; but people aidn t believe
in the evidence of their senses even when
they saw the finished buildings. But, of
course, we had an architect and artist
to direct us. ...
That is what the amateur bull er
should remember. As Mr. Middleton
says, the idea of building out of the
natural earth is extremely fascinating and
is one that appeals strongly to people
t 0 create w * th their own hands,
but the same could be said about, paint-
mg a picture or carvmg a statue Mud
is a beautiful traditional material which
has been approved by countless architects
and artists but, like paint, ma 1
any other material, it can only be brought
into disrepute by being mishandled.
M. G. S.
Sitwell Stories
Long and short, the 32 stories of
Osbert Sitwell’s Collected Stories (Duck-
worth ; Macmillan) are told in the grand
manner: for the most part they pre-
suppose a narrator, polished, urbane,
beautifully dressed, at his ease, with
plenty of time for a long atmospheric
introduction carefully remembered from
many previous recitations, to which
pieces have been added and from which
pieces have been subtracted.
Very soon the mellifluous conjuration
of quaintly-dressed ladies, of middle-
class snobs who said “dinner” instead of
“high-tea,” of lower-class authors with
“mop, bobbed or pudding-basin hair,”
waft the reader of whatever social station
into an imaginary drawingroom of rich
upholstery and aristocratic sympathy ; he
has, he feels, only to pull the bell-cord
and a butler will appear followed by a
footman with the tea-things.
But these are very good stories.
They have point. And the point is not
added to a set of circumstances run up
to prove it, but derived from scenes and
people described in great detail, and more
often than not with high comedy. Often
enough the point is an overall idea.
There can have been few better story-
ideas, for instance, than of “That Flesh
Is Heir to . . . an account of the
disaster that followed in the wake of a
lady touring the Mediterranean carrying
a deadly influenza-germ. This the author
has merely to work out until it falls away
from him in a comic coda of the lady
buying-up maimed animals in the desert,
and the Arabs deliberately torturing their
stock to dispose of it to the humane lady
at a higher price.
He uses another first-class idea in
“Triple Fugue,” where three friends are
thrown out of a car and reassembled by
modern surgery into one man who thinks
and acts at different times as each of
them. But here the author makes little
of the possibilities of his idea, running
off into a fierce satire on the presentation
of a poetry-prize, and coming back at
the end for an abrupt dismissal, only, of
his main theme.
The satire of “Triple Fugue” is at the
expense of a well-known Georgian
patron of literature, of an essayist one
could name, and of a professor
who for that reason would also probably
have a real name. The same tone is to
be found in “Alive-Alive-Oh! ” at the
expense of the minor-poet, Bundle, who
staged his death to increase his sales;
and again in “The Glow-Worm,” of
Corbie the columnist, who put his
daughter in his column (his wife threat-
ened to leave him if he brought her into
an article), and grew jealous of her
popularity until his war-time religious
rantings developed a halo round his head,
raising him to the level of journalism’s
first saint ... True enough, all these
victims had been guilty of serious crimes.
The Georgian critics had sniggered at
“The Sitwells,” Bundle had been guilty
of continuing to write Georgian verse,
and Corbie had “flogged and flayed”
D. H. Lawrence and James Joyce.
A man must use whatever weapons
lie to his hand ; but the supercilious tone
of these invectives revives memories of
the Superior People of between-wars
whose airs and graces covered a dreadful
waste-land of inanity, and in a writer of
Sitwell’s class and antecedents suggest a
snobbery and uneasiness he should not
feel. And for the author of an auto-
biography like Left Hand, Right Hand
to sneer at a professional journalist for
using his family in his column is merely
to say that it is possible to hold a five-
volume public auction of one’s relatives,
but not to dispose of them week by week
at the corner pawnshop.
For the rest, one can hardly blame Sir
Osbert for neither knowing nor under-
standing people who have to work for
their living ; he is to be admired for the
judgment with which he marks out his
limitations and sticks to them: curious
old gentlemen (“His Ship Comes Home,”
“The Machine Breaks Down”), quaint
old ladies (“Primavera,” “Low Tide”),
little stories told in trains (“Dumb-
Animal,” “Lovers’ Meeting”), ghost-
stories (“A Place of One’s Own”) and
stories of war —the little story “Defeat,”
in which the German officer in Paris
tells the French officer’s insubordinate
men to go back and salute him, is a
masterpiece.
Here there is no exception to be taken
to his tone ; he can speak of princesses,
as very few writers can, as ordinary
people; he can treat war, as few writers
do, as an ugly and unnecessary part of
life that nevertheless came naturally to
him.
Reviewed Briefly
Good-For-Nothing: James Yaffe
(Constable). A slight but entertaining-
enoUgb ya m a bout what happened when
a well-meaning Jewish matron of New
York Cjty made a plan to
rescue her
nephew, Normie Kramer, from the re-
sponsibilities of keeping his worthless
younger brother, Leo, out of mischief,
j.j er p | atl involved the marriage of scape-
grace Leo with a wea ithy and beautiful
Jewish maiden from Omaha who had
come to New York in search of culture
in Greenwich Village. Probably the best
fifing about the book is the skill with
which the extraordinary dialect, appa-
rently peculiar to American Jewry, is
rendered.
* * * •
Woman and the Wheel • T B
Uorris (Shakespeare Head) The auihor
of this book has previously published a
number of plays, and the playwright’s
approach is much in evidence here. As
a novel it is more of a thriller than any-
jj,j n g e [ se depending on an unusual plot
and 6 the ; ead £ r . s ab s ilitJ , t 0 a t s £ me
incredibilWes (or its interest. Oliver
3 relt writing a biography of his deceased
fath( . r __ a famous poet-finds in his
father’s journals a mystifying reference
to a holid s t w f th J e Pryori
AR A Not hing has been heard of
p r y or or Barbara Moore, his famous and
beau tif u J model, for the twenty years
since that holiday . Brett forces himself
and his questions upon the Pryor hoUse-
hold with a most unendearing lack of
respec t for the privacy of others. How-
everj fo e results of his researches, con-
ducted j n a disused water-mill where
Pryor, his sister, niece and a misogynistic
old manservant live, are exciting enough.
An odd romance compensates for a very
“h ammy ” denouement,


I
J *,%
*, S:M
ii <:
mi i 1 h
m, i 1 f
rsm*
L. Kjvt
-*■*• vSA.'t
2*5
gBJS. A
N®
Ml
sigpli^
i‘
I
Whether you’re equipping a workshop or a
Consult ns first
backyard bench
for all machine tools , and buy them on the easiest of terms
Builder, Tradesman, Hobbymaker, Homemaker? Whether you’re making furniture, home building or
toy making, you need the expertly precisioned tools for which we are famous. You can have these
machines working for you with only a small deposit and easy weekly terms, at Anthony Horderns !
m
AinaaAV
01/01
KOHLI T
s
Hi
F. FROM
11'5
WEEKLY
J. “M.8.T.” Bin. saw bench, rise and fall tilting
table, boring attachment with chuck, rise and. fall
boring table. Sin. saw blade, 2jin. cut. Complete
on heavy duty steel stand, 240 volt motor, £6l/15/'
F. “Tanner” tilting table saw bench, 27in. x 20in.
table, lOin. saw blade. Rips to centre of 4ft. sheet
of ply. £64/17/2. Stand, £9/16/11.
B, “L..M.T.D.” 3in. screw cutting lathe, hardened
spindle'front bearing is adjustable tapered bronzed
—back needle roller rack. 6 speeds, £9O, with
counter shaft. -
A. “Buscall” ball bearing work head, lOin. saw
capacity drill chuck iin. boring spindle. Ideal
unit for making your own combination saw bench.
Price ,£9/15/'.
smsm
mam.
B. FROM
14'3
WEEKLY
2S
m
V..\ \ *
mmm
/■r"
A. FROM
s'l
WEEKLY
;;
ii
JSiSi*.
II
C. FROM
19'11
WEEKLY
C. 10 x 6 combination woodworking
machine, lOin. saw, 3Jin. cut, 6in, buzzer, rebat'
ing iin. Combined on heavy duty stand, com'
plete with lin. H.P. single phase motor, switch,
flex and plug, £l6B/1?/'. Accessories extra.
■
H. FROM
9'5
WEEKLY
H. “Hyco” 12in. ball bearing band saw, siin.
thickness cut. Priced at £55/13/9; £ll/3/9
deposit. Heavy duty stand, £6/16/6. Universal
model for wood and metal, £79/9/5,
■
I 1
:V
mi
■•■c'
■
. - w . ~ "
E. FROM
16'3
WEEKLY
E. “Gregco” 4iin. heavy duty workshop lathe, complete with
counter shaft for electric motor, face plate, centres, change
wheel and guard, £137/15/2. Steel stand, £7/11/11.
D. “Hyco” junior Sin. saw bench on heavy duty stand, i H.P.
motor, belt boring attachment and 7in. disc sander saw blade.
Priced at £67/12/- and £l4/-/- deposit.
G. “Hyco” 6in. woodturning lathe, 36in. centres, 14in. face
plate depth, £5B/12/-, R and L. face plates, 58/6; heavy duty
stand, £9/10/-; 24in. tool rest, £6/2/9; motor bracket, £9/10/-.
.Si?::,: mSSK
■ SiJ. ■
v.
' is
■ ■■ :
mm
m mM
D. FROM
10'9
-
•VvVX.m’:
O. PKOM
10'5
WEEKLY
A TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
nthony Horderns
c
TOOL DEPT., LOWER GROUND FLOOR, PITT ST. ’PHONE M 2401. MAIL BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY


And Making Good, Too
PIONEERS TODAY
By I.N.L.
MY interest m and sympathy for
landless soldiers is no less deep
because my husband and I have
, vL!)l r f rag u/ the sa ” c f . min °“ r -
hor? h T t.", t 6 “ b S th country ‘
hu ; whlle I raised m a pro-
vincial city, escaping back to the country
whenever I could, he was raised on his
father’s farm, leaving it in early man-
hood to enter the ministry
Almost 40 when World War II began.
i_ .rp j i . t o >
« w ° ffered hIS serv ' ces ,’ and soon
overseas as a chaplain He saw
service in several theatres of war, only to
tLfLS 1 the P ° Si ‘
° d d j oc ® se
considerably below the standard of the
one he had left on enlistment, with, of
course, a correspondingly lower stipend.
It was plain that to live on a lower
stipend, feed and clothe ourselves and
our family and educate our children we
would have to draw quite heavily upon
our savings and his deferred pay. So it
was that, after much thought and with
some misgiving, we invested our slender
capital in a business. We became shop-
keepers. We worked hard long hours
and physically heavy work to people who
were unused to it. We made mistakes
and learned by them. We were handi-
capped for want of capital, though, in
some respects, that was not a bad thing,
for it meant that we , ooked [wjce , ever E ’
; nvP dm P nt “ y
ZSf and Were never over '
tr ’• T ,
Financially our position improved, but
rf' 1 10 have time
ior recreation, social life or even com-
panionship with the children. We had
a comfortable home, but were too tired
to enjoy it
Three years ago we had the chance to
buy a fairly well-set-up country property,
unstocked and without plant. We had
been refused aid for the business from
Repat. because of our inexperience and
my husband’s profession, but we con-
sidered that we would be eligible for
classification for soldier-settlement be-
cause of his earlier association with the
land.
There was no time to wait for
that, however, if we wanted to take
advantage of our chance to acquire the
property. We realised our every asset,
except necessary furniture, to secure our
land. The bank, as distrustful of a
former clergyman’s capacity as a farmer
as it had been of his likelihood of sue-
ceeding in business, grudgingly loaned us
as little as possible, which just covered
the balance needed to purchase our free-
hold, and we moved in.
We had no stock, no plant, and our
home, though adequate, lacked many of
the amenities to which we had been
used, but we were happy and more con-
tented than we had been for years. Then
the blow fell. My husband could not get
a classification—he was too old, he had
been away from the land for too long,
and his former profession ruled him out
c , ,
So there we were with a good enough
property, no money and no plant and
stocked only with we had imagined
would be the beginning of our flocks and
herds by no means as many head as we
could carry or had hoped to carry, and
even those still unpaid for.
Things were bad, but not hopeless,
Though ineligible for repatriation bene-
fits, we were able to obtain an advance
from the Hollway Government’s Rural
Finance Corporation, which freed us
from the bank overdraft and its heavy
rate of interest. The stock were secured
by a stock mortgage —now paid, thank
goodness. They multiplied, and an
occasional forced sale of a beast bought
necessities and the sale of wool pur-
chased more stock and plant, little by
little.
There is still much that we want, but
we are gaining steadily and find life very
satisfying. We still work hard, but we
do find time to relax; friends visit us
and we see an occasional talkie or enjoy
the simple entertainments available in
the average country district. We have
time to read and, thanks to the country
libraries of the Victoria League and the
Public Library Board, we have books
to read. Life is very good. We have
been fortunate, perhaps, in that we struck
good seasons and got good prices for our
wool, but against that we have had to
pay increased prices for our sheep. We
have lived simply but not meanly and,
when practicable, have secured plant
secondhand, often saving considerably
thereby.
We have not, however, stinted on stock,
always buying the best animals we could
for our purpose, particularly where sires
are concerned. Maybe we haven’t
arrived yet, but we are getting some-
where.
What I set out to say is this. We were
land-hungry, but we got land, and not
undeveloped virgin land, either. And we
had very, very much less than the £lO,OOO
which some people suggest is necessary
to go on the land. Land-values are often
lower today than they were three years
ago. The man who wants it badly
enough will get it—if he’s really keen.
How to Avoid Cold Hands and Feet
WITH winter once again upon
us, a vital question is posed
for the man whose circu-
latory system gets bogged-
down near his wrists and ankles,
adamantly refusing to push his warm
gore beyond these points.
If he is one also who has to avoid
as the plague the warming fire be-
cause juxtaposition to it will raise a
bumper crop of chilblains, what is
he to do?
Regarding the hands, the position
is not so grim.
Walking around in the daytime, he
can thrust both hands deep in his.
pockets, provided he doesn’t happen
to be carrying either his paper, brief-
case, umbrella or parcel, or taking
his idog for a walk on a lead. The
habit of carrying pockets half-full of
cold coins must be avoided—these he
would have to carry inside his hat or
in his shoes. Not so convenient
when he is about to make a purchase,
but he can’t have everything.
Should his tailor have unaccount-
ably provided him with only one
side-pocket he will be compelled to
acquire digital warmth by thrusting
one hand in a side-pocket and one
in his hip-pocket. This may look
slightly odd, but what’s that com-
pared with his comfort?
For the fellow who always has icy
hands the pleasure of meeting a
friend is doubled if that friend hap-
pens to enjoy warm hands.
Last winter I had an ice-handed
friend grasp my mitt. Five minutes
later he was still pumping it jovially.
After about 10 minutes of it I began
to get a bit embarrassed, and when
I tried tentatively to disengage, his
grip became harder than before. I
realised then that I was in the hands
—or hand —of a circulatory Dracula.
He was virtually sucking my warmth.
When eventually I did get away my
hand was of sub-zero temperature.
The change from his miserable
look when first weTnet to the expres-
sion of almost holy ecstasy as we
parted made me suspect that I was his
first victim of the day. No doubt
he was then going to search for a
left-handed friend and get the other
one to function.
The term “inseparable friends”
was first invented to apply to two
cold-hand sufferers who had wrung
each other’s hands long and ardently,
only to find that each had frozen
on to the other. If on a bitter mid-
winter day you happen to see two
men hurrying along the street hand-
in-hand don’t jump to the conclu-
sion that they’re a couple of pansies
—they may be two such unfortunate
greeters making for the nearest place
where they can plunge their locked
fingers into hot water and so regain
their freedom. In extreme cases they
have to seek surgical attention.
While at work, relief may be
obtained by one who suffers per-
petually cold hands —so long as his
work doesn’t call for taking a seat
on a steel-plate, -joist, etc, —by sitting
on them. This may, of course, in-
terfere with the performance of his
duties, and it might be slightly
worrying to him unless he happens
to work for the Government. How-
ever, in the latter case, should his
hand have thawed out sufficiently by
late afternoon to allow him to sign-
off he may feel that he has done as
much as his more fortunate fellows.
With feet, more drastic steps will
have to be taken.
A bout of fast pre-bed skipping in
the lounge-room while clad in one’s
pyjamas at night is an excellent
thing. At first the skipper will feel
that his feet have been sawn off and
that he is skipping on the stumps,
but after about half an hour the first
signs of thawing-out will appear. The
possibility that the rope with catch in
the overhead light-cluster or lassoo
the standard-lamp adds that extra
touch of excitement which is a sure
circulation-aid.
When he judges that his feet are
sufficiently warm he should throw
the rope down and tear into bed; he
will have about five minutes to get
to sleep before his feet freeze-up
again ; if he can get sound asleep by
that time he’ll be right for the night,
provided his wife’s cold foot doesn’t
touch him or she sleepily tells him
he’s left the lounge-room light on.
Very tall men who suffer from
cold feet in bed are at a disadvantage.
They may, after employing anything
up to half a dozen methods, eventu-
ally get their feet sufficiently warm
to get to sleep; then an involuntary
muscular movement will cause them
to thrust an exposed foot out through
the end of the bed, and they wake
up wondering how the snow got in
the room.
The hot-water-bottle remedy has
its points.
The drill is to wrap the almost-
boiling bottle in an old singlet, then
juggle it' around the feet and shins
until the wrapping comes off and the
bottle casts up against some unpro-
tected part of the chassis. Then
savagely kick the thing out of bed.
Yet the married man sometimes
suffers from cold feet unnecessarily.
He can eliminate this sometimes-
long-drawn-out agony by abjuring his
old habit of pitching a tale that is
never believed anyway and making a
clean breast of it by admitting his
late homecoming was caused by his
having a few too many and then
going to old Bill’s to sleep it off.
Bo.
TREES FOR EVER
By TOM LUSCOMBE
A STORY deserving to be widely
publicised in Australia began in
the ’3o’s when Australian Paper
Manufacturers, Ltd., decided to
establish a kraft pulp-mill in Gippsland
(Vic.).
Wood supplies for this mill were
to be drawn from the native eucalypt
forests near Morwell, where the pulp-
mill was to be established. Before the
project got under way the disastrous
1939 bushfires practically destroyed
eucalypt forests from which the pulpwood
was to be drawn. Most of the mature
stands were killed.
The Victorian Forests Commission sub-
sequently undertook a vast salvaging
operation, making use of millions of
super feet of prime timber killed by fire
and threatened with eventual deteriora-
tion. A.P.M. played a major part in
salvaging this timber. It erected a saw-
mill, which converted large quantities of
logs into sawn timber and used huge
quantities of pulpwood. In 10 years
approximately 250,000 tons of pulp were
made from fire-killed timber, but by this
time many of the fire-ravaged areas were
displaying a dense regrowth and it was
apparent that continued operations would
cause severe damage to young trees.
Because of the diminishing supplies of
fire-killed timber, A.P.M. began to look
to other types of eucalypt forests. The
mixed-species foothill forests were the
natural places to turn to for pulpwood.
At the end of the war the company
decided that, in addition to its timber-
getting activities, an active forest develop-
ment policy was essential. The decision
was made to establish pine plantations
as close to the mill as possible. It was
also decided that foothill eucalypt forests
would be bought so that the company
would own some forests.
At the beginning of 1951 a separate
subsidiary company A.P.M. Forests
Proprietary, Limited —was formed. The
new company took over the forestry acti-
vities. One of its main objects was to
plan for future requirements, and it aims
at sustained-yield forestry, better known
as tree-farming, a term comparatively new
to Australia.
At Maryvale, in Gippsland, the A.P.M.
pulp-mill is soundly established, with
plans for the future well advanced. The
pine-establishment programme drawn up
in 1950 aims at plantations to produce
between four and five million cubic feet
of pulpwood a year. Annual plantings
will be approximately 1500 acres. It is
an active and constructive policy of forest
development. In 1951, for example, four
trees were planted for every on© cut down
for pulpwood. Last year the replacement
rate was stepped up to five to one.
The Maryvale pulp-mill now uses about
60,000 cunits of pulpwood a year, a cunit
being 100 cubic feet of solid wood. This
year its annual appetite will increase to
approximately 100,000 cunits. Most of
this pulp wood is eucalypt and is drawn
from the mixed-species and fire-killed ash
of Gippsland forests. Small amounts of
pine pulpwood are also obtained from
State plantations in Victoria and S.A.
The most modern techniques of dear-
jn g and planting are used. American
equipment has been obtained, and, during
tbe w j n t er c f approximately 2000
acres were planted with it. The heavy
equipment used in clearing is particularly
effective, and mechanisation has reduced
CO sts to a minimum,
Forest development along these lines
a flighty-skilled and scientific operation,
p rom the selection of suitable land in
tbe £ rs(; pj ace> through stages of prepara-
bon to tfl e final planting-out of seedlings
f rom t fl e company’s own nurseries, it is
an i nV olved and complex procedure,
y ar i ous types of land are being converted
to pines. Mostly it is abandoned farm-
land, which has reverted to scrub and
bracken, and timbered country carrying
poor-quality eucalypt forest of no com-
mercial value.
The present policy is to clear the land
completely and plough it before planting.
That gives the seedlings a much better
start, their growth-rate is increased, a
higher percentage survive, rabbit damage
is minimised, the fire-hazard reduced
considerably for several years and har-
vesting made easier.
The story of A RM. is an interesting
and encouraging example —a nation
needs a policy of “trees for ever” no less
than a wood-pulp company.
Next Week
"SATAKE, THE PEASANT"
by Stephen Kelen
At first-hand Kelen came to know
Satake, the typical Japanese peasant,
what he has meant in Japan in the
past and may mean in the future.
To know Satake is in a large measure
to know Japan.
"KING'S CROSS"
by John Fountain
The Mecca of the Yanks when they
were here, the Mecca now of moneyed
squatter-types; a strangely different
quarter of Sydney about which hangs
a part-mythical, part-factual atmos-
phere of cosmopolitanism, naughti-
ness, bohemianism, and evil itself.
Which is fact, which fiction? Foun-
tain writes as a resident, who would,
for his part, rather live there than
anywhere else.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 10, 1953
Vol. 74—No. 3826
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors;
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
AUSTRALIA AND THE NEW AGE
The Coronation ceremonies will probably be remem-
bered by history not only for their pomp and glitter.
They mark an awakening in the British Common-
wealth and a revival of its former spirit.
The greatest contributor to victory in World
War 11, the provider of most of the inspiration in the
days when the rest of Western civilisation was either
collapsing like a pack of cards or looking on with
an ill-concealed indifference until the disaster
threatened to engulf non-combatants, Britain was a
victorious loser of the war. Its enemies compelled
the British people to strip themselves to their skins
to win the battle, to disburse the savings of centuries,
to sacrifice their material progress to carry on a
desperate down-to-earth fight for the right to survive.
And when victory was assured its friends hastened in
the name of freedom to assist in the disintegration of
the Empire, to encourage people, who were better
governed and more thoughtfully cared for under
modern British rule than they are likely to be under
their own backward leaders for a century, to seek
“independence”—of course, under the tutelage of their
supposed liberators. Others professed to have inherited
the moral leadership of the world, and they had
certainly inherited most of its negotiable resources
largely as the result of Britain’s enormous war effort
and know-how.
Time is already proving how wrong most of the
diagnosticians of 1946 were, especially some of the
loudest-mouthed in Australia. London is becoming
once more the beating heart of Europe. The United
Kingdom still leads in scientific invention, in basic
techniques of which most others are merely great
improvers. No country challenges it in that respect
except perhaps rising Germany. In air invention and
development the United States, for all its wealth, has
found itself years behind its little mother country, as it
was in radar and basic nuclear research ; and there are
many other fields in which the same can be said. This
triumph has been achieved at the cost of pinching
self-sacrifice and a kind of arid hard work and
temporary shabbiness such as only conquered, not
gloriously victorious, countries usually endure.
The conference of Prime Ministers which follows
the Coronation should provide the starting-point of
a new stage in the resurgence of British Common-
wealth initiative. The period of rehabilitation having
progressed well, that of large-scale concerted develop-
ment and exploitation of British resources should now
begin, together with a united policy aimed to defend
the gains which the next few decades should give us.
With the atomic age in being thought is being entirely
reoriented as to what constitutes natural wealth.
Australia has its part to play and its share in the
opportunity, but it still lags behind other parts of the
British Commonwealth because of the queer political
complexion of its life. British Socialist leaders who
came into power after the war had many failings, but
one of them was not a conviction that national great-
ness and prosperity can be produced by killing the
incentive to work and by representing industry in the
worker as a vice and the class-war as the ideal occupa-
tion for times of peace.
This is the doctrine of the Evatt-“Fixer” Ashley
types of politician, and the result of their labors is
that" Australia is not advancing as it should in the
fields in which the United Kingdom, Canada and the
United States are advancing—in solid construction for
increased real production. Our prosperity at this
season comes not from expansion but from world-
wide price-inflation. The area under crops in Aus-
tralia does not keep pace with the increase of popula-
tion. There are seven million fewer sheep in Australia
than in 1943. Loaf and go-slow and restriction of
output in coal and similar key industries, rather than
widening of markets, are encouraged in, trade-union
dominated quarters as an aid to “full regular employ-
ment” of privileged classes of workers. Socialist rail-
freights imposed to pay for State extravagance,
inefficiency, go-slow and slatternliness are becoming
beyond bearing under normal conditions. It now
costs £2 Is. to send a bale of wool 300 miles in
N. S. Wales, and a truck of stock sent the same
distance is charged £3l 3s. To transport a steer from
Boggabilla, in northern N. S, Wales, to Wagga costs
on an average £3 15s.
ABOMINABLE DETERMINATION
“How on earth did you get up here?”
Australia will need a thorough doing-over of its
industrial principles if it is to share fully in the
Elizabethan-age expansions of the English-speaking
world.
The Drift to Canberra
The first Federal Parliament was formed largely of
men who had made their mark in the Parliaments of
the six colonies. Barton, Deakin, Reid, Kingston
and Forrest went into the new Parliament as
a matter of course ; they were the begetters of the new
Legislature, and it was unthinkable that it could
function without them. Along with these went many
lesser lights, so that the new Parliament held many
men already well schooled in Parliamentary procedure.
It is not generally realised that this process
whereby talent is drained away from the State Parlia-
ments still goes on. William Morris Hughes, last of
the originals, died last year, but he left behind him a
numerous band of former State members who had
transferred their endeavors to Canberra. Excluding
Billy, 47 one-time State men have sat in one or more of
the four Parliaments Canberra has known since World
War 11. Politically they have been fairly evenly
divided —25 Liberal and Country-party members ; 22
“Labor.” The list is quite imposing:
GOVERNMENT PARTIES: Senators Chamberlain,
Hayes, Hays, Lecfcie, Maher, McLachlan, Pearson,
Reid, Seward and Wright; M.H.Rs. Bate, Cameron,
Corser, Drummond, Eggius, Fadden, Grayden, Guy,
Haworth, Kent Hughes, Leslie, McLeay, Menzies,
Russell and Turner.
“LABOR”: Senators Critchley, Clothier, Gaha,
Grant, O’Flaherty, Collings; M.H.Rs. Bruce, Clarey,
Crean, Cremean, Davies, Drakeford, Evatt, Forde,
Harrison, Keon, Lang, Lawson, Mullens, Pollard,
Scully and Thompson.
In qualities the batch is rather mixed. Some of the
men in it would be an ornament to any assembly ;
others would be nonentities in an outback shire
council. But, in the main, they are men of whom
their parties think well. They include three Prime
Ministers, a Leader of the Opposition, a President of
the Senate, a Speaker, and three Chairmen of Com-
mittees. Thirteen of them held Ministerial rank in
State Parliaments ; fourteen became Federal Ministers.
One was a State Premier and another a State Oppo-
sition-leader. Of the more recent rank-and-filers from
Victorian “Labor” it is safe to say that had they
stayed in Melbourne more than one would now be
in Cain’s Cabinet.
The immediate reasons for this drift from State to
Federal politics are varied. Hope deferred is one.
Members of a party too long in Opposition may
despair of ever being on the Government side of the
House where alone, they feel, can they really do the
job for which they entered politics. Similar feelings
may move private members on the Government side,
only too well aware of the tendency of older hands
to cling to their portfolios to the exclusion of
younger men.
Some of the men listed either lost or resigned their
State seats before becoming interested in Canberra,
but these are probably balanced by others still in
, State Parliaments merely because the electors didn’t
support their bid for a Federal seat. Still, in the mam,
the 47 are men who deliberately chose the Federal
field as one offering more scope than the State. On
average they are probably a better sample than those
who stayed. Canberra’s gain has been the States
loss.
It is not surprising that men of energy and ambi-
tion should prefer Federal to State politics. Many
factors contribute to emphasising the importance of the
one and minimising that of the other. The proceedings
of State Parliaments get little notice in the Press —
particularly in the more populous States —and an
unedifying squabble between two ill-mannered
members can always count on five times the space
given to a debate on water-conservation or land-
settlement. Nor can it be disputed that the public
likes it that way. There is no great public interest in
State politics; in fact, there is very little under-
standing of them. People inveigh against the Gov-
ernment as a matter of course, but apparently with-
out any understanding of what they are criticising.
If one-tenth of the criticism and complaints levelled
at the Cahill Government for its mishandling of
transport, power, housing and other problems were
translated into action at the polls it would be suffi-
cient to wreck a dozen Governments, yet last
February Cahill and his party were returned with a
record majority by voters who apparently thought
that by doing so they were striking a blow at the
Menzies Federal Government. Something similar
happened in Queensland.
Both parties are to blame for the decline in the
calibre of State Parliaments. These institutions could
easily bear the drain to Canberra if replacements of
high standard were forthcoming, but they are not.
State Parliaments no longer attract candidates of high
standard. Despite disclaimers by party-organisers it
is difficult for a man of merit to break into the political
field. His chances of preselection against a sitting
member are almost negligible ; the general rule with
all parties is that once a man wins a seat it is more or
less his for keeps.
The cynical attitude held generally throughout
New South Wales towards the State Parliament is
shown in the frequently-expressed opinion that public
works are allotted to the various electorates in propor-
tion to the vote-catching needs of the Government.
One Minister went close to endorsing this view when
he told electors of a country city that they had only
themselves to blame that their electorate had received
little in the way of public-works money in comparison
with his own stamping-ground—they had consistently
returned an anti-“ Labor” member to Parliament.
That a State Legislature need not necessarily
forfeit the respect of the people is shown by the record
of the South Australian Parliament. Premier Play-
ford has demonstrated that a man of vision and
integrity can carry out a policy of planned develop-
ment in his own State and at the same time contribute
to the general welfare and advancement of the Com-
monwealth. He has done this without kotowing to
the Canberra Government when it happened to be of
his own political color and without vilifying it when
it was die opposite. The State Parliaments of
Australia could do with a few more Playfords.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Duty"—the Galvin Way
Victoria’s Acting - Premier Galvin,
announcing that his Government would
legislate for a State lottery in September,
first said “We must put aside petty objec-
tions,” and then came out with the
motheaten alibi of most State Premiers
that it is all Menzies’s fault. What else
could “It is no use relying on meagre
reimbursements of income tax and
inadequate allotments from the Loan
Council” mean?
Victoria is thus to be Galvinised into
becoming the sixth Australian State with
a Government-run or -sponsored lottery.
South Australia will be left in splendid
isolation —and there is something
splendid about a State which refuses to
adopt the unpleasant public gambling
method of raising money—and will stay
that way as long as the present Govern-
ment rules.
However, South Australians should get
a good deal of amusement —and possibly
some profit—from watching Victoria
tryipg to compete with the other four
Slates for lottery business, a competition
in which each tries to outdo the other
with bigger and better lotteries, while
deserving charities suffer from a falling-
off in public donations and have either
to go out of business or run lotteries of
their own,
Mr. Galvin puts forward the dis-
credited excuse that his lottery is intended
to raise funds for “hospitals, mental
institutions and child welfare.” A brief
review of the way all three have not
benefited from the lottery over the
Murray, now in its 21st year and run-
ning up to eight gambles a week, would
convince any open-eyed Victorian of the
spuriousness of that claim.
Child welfare! Children and minors
in N.S.W. are confirmed lottery-addicts,
and the Government there consoles its
conscience by refusing to allow them to
collect their prizes in person until they
reach the age of 21.
Gambling, like prostitution, is common
to all ages and all peoples. But neither
of them is either moral or desirable.
Even the changed modern outlook on
morality has refused to change in that
regard. And though Government
lotteries have been running in this
country for more than 20 years, they are
even less politically moral now than
when they began.
Still, Mr. Galvin bolds that “The
Government will be failing in its duty
if it does not have a State lottery as a
means of getting revenue.” It is plain
that Mr. Galvin also holds that it is the
citizen’s “duty” to gamble. That, to our
shame, is what a party politician’s con-
ception of duty has come to.
The Humbug Warriors
The attacks of A. A. Calwell and “Fixer”
Ashley on the defences of North Aus-
tralia plumb the depths of humbug,
coming from leaders of a party with the
A.L.P.’s sorry record.
“Labor” has never considered defence
save as a method of defeating a non-
“ Labor” Government. Its policy has
been that it is opposed to, and
bitterly critical of, what is being done by
others. When the Lyons Government,
before World War 11, was trying to
repair the damage done by the Sculiin
regime, which had almost destroyed the
defence system, it was reviled as
a parcel of Its schemes
envisaged a specific balanced defence
system in which the Navy, Army and
the Air Force each would play major
parts. “Labor” plumped for air defence
almost entirely. Mr. Curtin himself as
leader poured scorn on the Navy, which
he expected to see chased into’the Pacific
and destroyed, like Von Scheer’s German
Squadron, in the event of war.
As soon as war broke out, however,
and the R.A.N. was mostly sent overseas,
he became seized with the urgency of
naval defence —mainly, presumably, be-
cause he and his followers were eager
to have a stick to beat the Government.
Before tjje war “Labor” insisted that
if an attack were made on Australia it
would certainly be concentrated at some
vital spot. It advocated the concentra-
tion of defence within the ambit of our
transport systems, though with a mobility
which would allow it to deal with raids
which were the most which it expected
to happen in the far north. Mr. Ward
and others opposed sending militia to
defend New Guinea even in the early
war days. In post-war years, while hold-
ing that the United States was the only
Power capable of holding the South
Pacific against an enemy, the Chifley-
Evatts showed no interest in having
Manus maintained either as an American
or Australian base. '
“Labor” in power lent its support and
protection to Mr. Ward’s lying Brisbane
Line propaganda, knowing full well that
its own leaders were fully in accord with
the idea of evacuating the North in case
of enemy attack and that they had even
only a few months before taken initial
steps towards it.
“Labor” in recent years has opposed
every move to increase defence. It has
recently been demanding reduction of
taxation, which can only be attained by
reduction in defence costs. And now, at
a moment when Australia has reached its
highest peak of peace-time security, with
over 140,000 men in the forces, a regular
nucleus of trained manpower such as
has never been known in the Common-
wealth in peace-time history, its defence
industries moving in tune with scientific
advances everywhere and one of the two
most advanced guided-missile plants in
the world operating on its soil, Ashley
and Calwell pretend to have begun to
knock at the knees.
It is time that the leaders of the
A.W.U. and some other respectable
unions brought pressure on panicmonger-
ing demagogues of their type and told
them to pull their tongues out of their
cheeks and acknowledge that defence is a
national concern, not a party plaything.
Marching North Alone
The essential feature of the Korean situ-
ation is not that there appears to be
hope— not certainty—that the Russian-
Chinese bloc will agree to a complicated
and not very effective scheme for allow-
ing p.-0.-w. held by U.N.O. ultimately
to decide their own fate, but that no peace
seems possible on any probable basis
with S. Korean agreement.
The negotiations which have dragged
on for nearly two years have not been
for peace, merely for a cease-fire, pre-
liminary to peace discussions, which,
however, would be built on foundations
so arrived at.
But the S. Koreans, the people most
concerned, have announced that the
“new United Nations proposals are un-
acceptable.” They began the war as the
Government of all Korea as recognised
by U.N.0., though the Russians insisted
on keeping North Korea in their clutches.
They were violently and wantonly
attacked when almost unarmed the
moment the United States turned its
back. When it seemed that, with the
help of. the United Nations, they would
be re-established, they were assailed anew
by a huge force of Russian-armed
Chinese. Their whole country has been
devastated by Communist aggressors,
and they naturally look for satisfactory
guarantees that if peace is signed they
will be left alone. They know that the
moral influence of U.N.O. cannot assure
this —they have had bitter experience.
They therefore demand withdrawal,
complete, of both U.N.O. and Communist
forces, equipment to the point at which
they themselves can defend the peninsula,
plus a protective alliance which would
automatically bring the United States
back with military force to their aid in
the event of further Communist aggres-
sion. President Syngman Rhee adds;
If this proposal Is unacceptable we must
be aUowed to continue fighting.... Our
first choice is, if we are free to make it,
still to have our allies by our side actively
to help us fight out our common issue.
But if that is no longer possible, we rather
wish to exorcise the innate right of .self-
determination and decide the issue con-
clusively one way or another. Anyway, we
can no longer survive the stalemate of
division.
The last sentence is undoubtedly true.
And it is also true that the main objec-
tive of the war has presumably been to
secure the right of self-determination for
Korea as a whole, free of outside
interference. It is idle to argue that S.
Korea is as barbarous as N. Korea and
as undemocratic. There are quite a
number of countries associated with
U.N.O. which are even more barbarous
and undemocratic and for which the
rickety and inconsistent organisation has
claimed self-determination.
Solomon himself would be perplexed
in the fix in which the U.N.O. peace-
makers find themselves if Dr. Rhee in-
sists on rejecting General Eisenhower’s
proposal for a post-war mutual defence
pact on Anzus lines and decides to carry
on alone and at once. There were, how-
ever, signs on June 7 that he might “bow
to the inevitable.” But this will not solve
the problem.
A Martyr of the Railways
“Mac Hoots”: A gentleman of Sydney
was travelling to Canberra by train, for
the purpose of catching trout.
Near Camden the guard dropped in
and courteously informed him that he
was smoking in a non-smoker. It seemed
to the gentleman that when he had
booked his seat in Challis House the
Railways Department should have told
him this; also that, since the only other
occupant of the compartment was a lady
who was also smoking, the regulations
might well be waived in the interests of
comfort and commonsense.
The strongest point in the guard’s
favor was that he politely offered to find
the passengers seats in a smoking-
compartment. But that happened to be
the very point on which the gentleman
felt most strongly. He saw no sensible
reason why he should meekly follow the
official through the train with his luggage.
He had had enough of being pushed
around and ordered about by bureaucrats
during the war when the Socialists were
in charge of everything; and his smok-
ing was doing no harm to anyone on
earth.
So the gentleman continued to smoke.
And what with the guard popping in and
out of the carriage most of the way to
Canberra, he had a somewhat irritating
journey: which cost him, eventually,
£5 17s. 6d. in the Magistrate’s Court at
Picton —£3 ss. of this for the guard’s
wages while he was giving evidence.
It seems a large sum for so trivial a
breach of a meaningless regulation; yet
the gentleman considers it still worth-
while as a kind of Tolpuddle martyr-
dom for liberty. And if Mr. Clarrie
Martin and Mr. Winsor, or whoever is
responsible for this badgering of a trout-
fisherman going quietly about his fishing,
think that that is the way to attract
customers to their bankrupt N. S. Wales
railways, they have another think
coming.
Excelsior in Tibet
“Ek Bum’s” record of it:
It was fitting that a British effort should
conquej the world’s highest peak, Everest, on
the threshold of Coronation week, when British
prestige reached a peak.
Everest is essentially a British mountain
even if it is in Nepal territory with
Tibetan approaches. It was found by
British effort in 1849, when it was
merely given a number (Peak XV) during
the beginnings of the great British trigono-
metrical survey of the Himalayas, a vast work
which continued so long as the British were
in India. It was named in 1852 after the
Surveyor-General of India and pioneer of
modern Oriental map-making, Sir George
Everest, who had made the survey of Java for
Sir Stamford Raffles in 1813-15 and who had
begun his Indian work in Hyderabad in 1823.
A computer at Dehra Dun then discovered, for
the first time, that it belied its appearance and
was actually higher than the then-accepted
highest peak—Kanchenjunga (28,146 feet).
The first proposal to climb it came in 1907
as the result of the interest created in the region
by the return of Younghusband’s expedition
from Lhasa and the celebration of the 50th
anniversary of the foundation of the. Alpine
Club. It was not, however, till December 9,
1920, that the Dalai Lama gave a passport for
the first expedition, which was British, to enter
the area. And both the detailed explorations
of the approaches, the devising of techniques
and the main attempts since have been British.
This was the 11th, the last having been made
by a Swiss expedition in 1952.
The first attempts will always be associated
with the name of probably the greatest of all
alpinists, George Leigh Mallory, who took part
in the expeditions of 1921, 1922 and 1924. He
was last seen alive in 1924 within reach of the
summit, about 1000 feet from the top, at a
point rarely approached again even with the
aid of modern scientific facilities. It is within
the bounds of possibility that he and Andrew
Irvine reached their goal before being over-
come by the forces of Nature.
The successful expedition was led by Colonel
John Hunt, of the King’s Royal Rifles, 42
years old, veteran of the 1933, 1937 and 1940
attempts. He had a 13-man team which went
to its base three months ago. It carried all
the latest lightweight equipment developed from
the experiments of Arctic teams of military
experts, together with lightweight oxygen
apparatus and a special type of climbing boot
to be used for the first time above the crucial
23,000-foot level.
The base camp was established at the fort
of the Khumbu Glacier to the south-west of
the peak. It was proposed to approach the
task by stages through a series of camps in the
narrow glacier valleys reaching through the
Western Cym to Camp VII on the South Col —
of which the height was 25,890 ft. The first
attempt from this camp was made by a pair
of climbers, Bourdillon and Dr. Charles Evans,
who had been members of the party which
earlier made the preliminary survey of the route.
They used closed-circuit oxygen equipment with
which the climber breathes only from cylinders.
While this party, two climbers and four porters,
tried to reach the top its specific purpose
was to reach the south summit and bring back
as much detailed information as possible about
the unknown final ridge. It was to return the
same night as it set out. It reached a point on
May 24, only 500 feet from the summit, a
record up to that time.
Two climbers, Colonel Hunt and a Sherpa
coming behind, were to use open-circuit breath-
ing, in which the intake includes a proportion
of fresh air—a method not likely to give the
same long-range benefits as the closed
circuit. They carried equipment for Hillary and
Tensing to 27,500 feet. They in turn were
supported by two climbers and four Sherpas
who would set up an intermediate camp between
Camp VII and the top of the mountain at
28,000 ft., from which the final serious attempts
would be made.
From the first the pair who had shown them-
selves fittest for climbing were the Maorilander
ex-airman Edmund Hillary and Tensing Bhutia,
who had exhibited their mettle early in the piece
by climbing the six-milesi-odd from the base camp
on the Khumbu Glacier to the then-advanced
base camp at 26,000 feet and back in a single
day “by no means exhausted.” They were
selected for the final attempt from Camp VIII,
the new advapced base to which they were
accompanied by Colonel Hunt, the leader of
the expedition. On May 29, Oak Apple Day,
King Charles ll’s birthday, which London has
always observed by changing the Guards and
Chelsea pensioners from winter grey into
summer scarlet, they made it.
It was the culmination of an*enormous effort
and almost unbelievably precise experiment and
labor for the whole party at heights at which
it is impossible for human beings to survive
witho'ut special equipment. Essentially the
credit was due to the leadership, detailed
organisation and to what poor Mallory used
to call “friendly weather,” except at the extreme
height where snow and gale threatened the
final attempt.
No matter how good the climber, he is not
good enough if he meets an avalanche or is
caught on cliff slopes in a 100-mile gale full
of blinding snow. Many lie dead on Everest’s
slopes. Colonel Hunt and Hillary have been
knighted, and the gallant Tensing is to be
specially honored by the Indian Government.
Now They're After Scalps
The Victorian A.L.P., having failed to
appreciate the causes of the sudden appli-
cation of brakes to wild spending by the
States, as so many others failed, and
having joined in the general hysterics led
by Dr. Evatt against the Menzies Gov-
ernment, is now looking for scapegoats.
It is trying to whip Victorians and the
Cain Government into “reconstituting”
the State Electricity Commission and
sacking the chairman, blaming the
S.E.C. for the slowing-down of Eildon,
Morwell and related projects.
Various newspapers joined in this busi-
ness, sending men to survey idle plant
and undeveloped works, and publishing
stories which, directly or indirectly, put
the blame on the Menzies Government
because it refuses to shovel out loads of
money or issue bank credit or something
equally silly. It took the sober Mel-
bourne “Age” to put the thing in its
right perspective:
In 1946-47, as we all know, Victoria was
at the mercy of N.S.W. coalminers. We
could not run our industries; train services
were drastically curtailed; electricity and gas
were rationed; winter brought untold
misery in homes and offices. This pitiable
state of post-war affairs raised strong
demands from an exasperated community
for large-scale expansions of the S.E.C.
undertakings.
Government, Press and a suffering public
were united in urging a far greater capacity
of generating-plant, power-stations and
briquette factories, with larger extraction
and use of brown coal. Emphasis was put
on speed in making expansions, so that we
could escape at the earliest practicable stage
from dependence on the vagaries of N.S.W.
miners, seamen, wharf-workers and storms.
For a balanced view, it is also necessary
to recall that money presented no obstacle
to the expansions seen to be essential.
There was no hint that borrowing pro-
grammes would have to be cut, or main,
tenance pared to a minimum. The S.E.C.
was told to go ahead with the utmost
expedition....
It is easy now to talk about overspending,
failures and blundering. But neither in the
early phase, nor until the collapse of the
1950-51 wool boom, did bankers and other
financial leaders foresee—that funds for
completing the plans launched with full
public approval would become short.
There is no record of any present critic
having warned that an acute shortage of
loan funds would mean idle plant and
held-up installations, even though huge
S.E.C. orders were fully approved by the
Government and the people. In the light
of events, it is not enough to call for
scalps and scapegoats. Any blame arising
from unused equipment, cancelled orders
and delayed constructions is very widely
shared.
“Very widely shared” is right. And
in that boom period to which the paper
refers, nobody was more reckless or
extravagant than “Labor” itself, both
with public money and in its encourage-
ment of the suicidal notion that Victoria
and the rest of Australia could do less
work for more money simply because
the national wool cheque was bigger
than it had ever been before.
Doyle Inquiry
Addressing the royal commission last
week, Gordon Wallace, Q.C., outlined
the establishment of the Joint Coal
Board and said that Mr. Arthur, as
N. S. Wales Minister for Mines, was in
effect the practical representative of the
Commonwealth Government in giving
directions to the board. He told or a
conference of State and Federal coal
authorities held on December 4, 1950,
which was attended by Federal Ministers
Casey and McLeay, Coal Board officers
and other technical officers. Arthur
presided. The conference decided that
contracts should be negotiable, not by
tender. This, said Mr. Wallace, was
important because two of the contracts
to be considered by the commission were
negotiable. These concerned the Hunter
Strip Mining Co. Pty., Ltd., and related
(i Continued on page 7)


to an area known as Pyke’s Gully, near
Singleton.
W. S. Winning, legal officer of the Coal
Board, gave evidence of two contracts
entered into by the board through its
subsidiary, the N.S.W. Mining Co. Pty.,
Ltd., with the Hunter Strip Mining Co.,
which he said was a subsidiary of Con-
structors (Engineering and Industrial),
Ltd, When N. A. Wilson, former general-
manager of the N. S. Wales Mining Co.
Pty., Ltd., entered the witness-box,
Wallace, Q.C., said he would rather the
witness was not called until Monday, as
he had not had time properly to study
his statement. After some exchanges
among counsel, Judge Amsberg adjourned
the hearing until Monday.
Earlier, G. M. Willmore, estate-agent,
told of meetings with Doyle at Parlia-
ment House. Doyle had given him two
telephone-numbers there, and “would
tell me to ring at a certain time.” He
had raised Doyle on Extension 277 at
least six times, and had met Doyle at
Parliament House on at least six occa-
sions. Sometimes he had interviewed
him in Arthur’s room, sometimes in the
room of the Chairman of Committees.
He would not swear that Doyle had un-
locked the door of Arthur’s room or the
safe in it, but “he went through all the
motions of unlocking the safe with a
key.” The same thing applied to the
door. As he was not suspicious of Doyle
at the time he had not taken special
notice. Willmore said he had never seen
Arthur until he came to give evidence
at the commission. He had never met
Mr. Booth (Chairman of Committees) or
Mr. G. Campbell (M.L.A. for Hamilton).
Willmore said he had heard members
address Doyle as “Reg,” but the only one
he could recall for certain was Clive
Evatt. At this Judge Amsberg remarked:
“Thousands of respectable people called
Doyle Reg, but it is no reflection on
them.” Later Mr. Snelling, Q.C., said
that Mr. Evatt denied having ever called
Doyle by his Christian-name and was
prepared to go into the box and deny
the allegation on oath. The commissioner
said that would not be necessary.
POLITICAL POINTS
London “Daily Herald,” in an excess
of Coronation fever, suggested chang-
ing the name of Mt, Everest to Mt.
Elizabeth. The idea shouldn’t be enter-
tained for a moment. The world’s highest
peak has for over 100 years borne the
name of the man who, in the course of
his trigonometrical survey of the Hima-
layas, first fixed its position and alti-
tude. It’s no way to honor the Queen to
wipe Sir George Everest’s name off the
map.
Equally thoughtless is the suggestion
that Queen Elizabeth should spend part
of every year in each Dominion. The
fact that her Majesty has dedicated her-
self to the service of her people should
not mean that she is condemned to a life
sentence of commercial-travelling.
• w
Senate counting and allocation or
preferences were completed last week,
close on a month after polling-day. There
were no surprises, the final result being
the same as was predicted by most
observers at the close of counting on the
first night. “Labor” won three seats in
every State except Queensland; the
Government parties won three in Queens-
land, Westralia and Tasmania and two
in each of the other States. These figures
mean that after Jun 6 30 party strengths
in the Senate will be Liberal and Country-
parties, 31 ; “Labor,” 29. Sixth seat in
both Tasmania and W.A, went to the
Government, so that two of the Govern-
ment’s 15 Senators will serve only three-
year terms, expiring in 1956. The rest,
along with all “Labor’s” 17, will not
retire until 1959.
Jin Queensland Liberal Senator Kendall
won the fifth seat on the distribution of
Sir Raphael Cilento’s preferences; of
Cilento’s 40,654 votes Kendall got 17,434
and “Labor” candidate Conelan 23,220.
Conelan undoubtedly benefited from the
“accidental” votes accruing to Cilento by
virtue of first .position on the card; on a
2 p.c. basis this would bring him at least
13,000 votes. The final count was Kendall,
118,040; Conelan, 104,999.
• «
So the wages-and-hours case can go on,
the High Court having decided that the
withdrawal of Foster, J., from the hear-
ing does not affect the competence of the
remaining judges to continue the case.
• «
“Labor” spruikers are pulling a rather
fast one in the Dulwich Hill (N.S.W.)
by-election. In among the usual moans
about Noo South being starved of loan-
money there is a howl at the anti-work-
ing-class estate-agents who, the allega-
tion goes, don’t want rent-control be-
cause it limits their commission. Bill
Ness, the Liberal candidate, is an estate-
agent. Incidentally, that calling didn’t
prevent his father from holding the seat
for years.
• •
With Dr. Evatt coronating the mantle
of First Spokesman for the Korze seems
to have fallen upon Ashley. Some weird
and fantastic statements come from the
Fixer, and they get an astonishing amount
of space in the Sydney papers. The old
boy’s supporters must be mighty sorry
he ever spoke about prefabs—the storm
he hoped to raise seems to have blown
back on his own party in N. S. Wales.
Now he’s swinging back to the old line
about the mythical millions the collieries
are making.
• •
Why are the Americans wasting time
and money offering 100,000 dollars to
induce Communist pilots in Korea to
surrender an M.I.G. jet-fighter? Photo-
graphs in the daily papers show the
former Polish airman who landed one
in Denmark sitting on the edge of a
swimming-pool in Las Vegas (U.S.A.)
with a Hollywood lovely on each side of
him. All three are dangling their legs in
the water with evident enjoyment. If
die Yanks drop a few thousand copies
of that photo in North Korea they should
get all the M.I.G.s they want.
Victorian “Labor” is determined to get
that lottery. Acting-Premier Galvin says
a bill will be introduced in September.
Evatt minor has been holidaying in
other States, and seems rather astounded
to find that houses are being built in
Victoria, South Australia and
Westralia, He has examined a Vic-
torian pre-cut cottage which costs £lOOO
in that State, and is “examining the
advisability of introducing this home
into N. S. Wales.” A question he is
probably asking his experts is: “If a
house costs £lOOO to erect in Victoria,
what will it cost in N. S. Wales?”
(Answer correct to the nearest £500.)
• • *
Queensland Acting-Premier Duggan,
replying to the North Queensland
demand for a new State, “drew” the
attention of new-State advocates to the
State Governor’s speech at the 1948
opening of Queensland Parliament:
My advisers are prepared to recommend
the establishment of additional States in
Queensland when, as a result of their
developmental policy, the new States will
THE STRATEGISTS
have a reasonable degree of financial and
economic stability.
As a clear statement of policy that’s
about as murky as they come.
Hitting back at Duggan for saying the
north of the State received more develop-
mental money per capita than the south,
the secretary of the new-State movement
claimed that North Queensland was
responsible for a third of Queensland
production, but that the Brisbane Gov-
ernment was spending on it only a
sixth of the money it received in tax-
reimbursements.
• •
Unreliably reported that when the
New Zealander Hillary planted the flag
on the summit of Mount Everest he heard
the ring of metal and, digging beneath
the snow, he unearthed a hammer and
sickle. The Grand Lama and Moscow
are now involved in correspondence on
the question of whether the implements
were left there by a Tibetan peasant or
indicate the earlier arrival on the peak
of the intrepid Soviet explorer,
Neverestski.
• •
Victoria’s Two-seats-for-one Act is
now law; it received the Royal Assent
last week. The job of redrawing the
electoral boundaries will probably start
towards the end of July—the State
authorities are waiting until the Federal
people do a little readjusting.
• •
In Brisbane the merits and demerits of
trial by jury are under discussion again.
One suggestion is that juries should be
dispensed with in civil actions; another
that it should be left to the judge to
decide whether or not to call a jury. The
problem is common to all States, and
its importance has been underlined by
recent jury-verdicts awarding huge sums
as damages in civil actions. A com-
promise might be to leave the determina-
tion of guilt to the jury, but to have
the amount of damages assessed by
experts.
• •
Henry Bolte, M.L.A. for Hampden,
is the new L.C.P. leader in Victoria, in
succession to Trevor Oldham, killed in
an air-crash in India a few weeks ago. He
has been deputy-leader for 18 months,
and has represented Hampden since
1947. A. G. Rylah (Kew) becomes the
new deputy.
• •
“Labor’s” pledged policy includes
abolition of the Senate, although the
party, when in power, has never made
any move in that direction. At the
declaration of the poll in Victoria
Senator Hendrickson mad© a noncom-
mittal reference to this, when he said
that the Senate had no useful purpose,
but while it existed “the people
represented must have a majority m
If the time came to abolish it “Labor
would wholeheartedly support the bill.
Nowadays quite a lot of “Labor policy
seems to depend on ifs and whens.
• •
P. L. Coleman, M.L.C., is Victorian
Minister for Transport. He also owns
the Port Phillip Hotel in Melbourne’s
Flinders-street. Because, as Minister for
Transport, he refused to listen to griev-
ances of railwaymen while they were on
strike the railwaymen held a meeting,
declared the pub “black,” and urged
unionists not to drink there. Now Mr.
Coleman, a “Labor” Minister, knows
what union blackmail means.
• •
A desk-calendar for today quotes St.
Paul’s Epistle to the Ephesians: Let not
the sun go down on- your wrath. That’s
all right, but no Ephesian ever fought
his way into a Sydney bus just before
sundown, battered his way to a seat,
travelled a mile, had the bus stop, waited
10 minutes, discovered it had broken
down, got his ankle kicked, his glasses
knocked off and his legitimacy doubted
in the wild rush to the relieving bus,
• •
The Shell Oil people are reported to
be planning a subway under a main
railway-line to save their employees from
risk when going to and from work at a
Geelong (Vic.) oil-refinery. Estimated
cost is £40,000. There is a very good
subway under College-street, Sydney,
which cost about £30,000 and nobody
ever uses it —except, ’tis said, seafaring
men and their lady friends. The Shell
folk could probably get it for about
£sooo—if it hasn’t been stolen by this.
e ©
A Netherlands Government news-sheet
reports that Holland’s record fruit crop,
contrary to expectations, was sold out
by the end of April, surprise orders from
adjoining countries accounting for the
last 100,000 tons. “Although many
fruitgrowers complained of poor prices,
Dutch consumers, on the other hand,
profited by eating enormous quantities
of cheap fruit.” Things seem to be
different in Australia; our growers often
complain of poor prices, but our con-
sumers never seem to get any cheap fruit.
• «
Towards the end of the month the job
of converting the last few miles of the
Naracoorte to Mt. Gambier railway in
South Australia from 3ft. 6in. gauge to
sft. 3in, will be completed. This means
a broad-gauge link between Adelaide and
the rich south-east of S.A. and, inciden-
tally, an alternate (though roundabout)
route from Adelaide to Melbourne.
• *
Senator Marriott, of Tasmania, is
advocating the abolition of compulsory
voting on the grounds that unwilling
voters always vote informally. That is
probably an exaggeration, but there is
something in what he says. In a demo-
cracy the* vote should be regarded as a
privilege to be valued; compulsion gives
it the flavor of an obligation.
• «
From America comes a report of a
city mayor being sent to jail for four years
on charges of protecting gamblers. The
mayor told reporters that he saw nO
reason why he should not continue to
conduct the city’s business from jail “the
same as if I was taking a noraial holiday.”
This seems to be one contingency that has
been overlooked by the framers of the
N. S, Wales Local Government Act.
• *
“J.S.”: This may help to explain the
anomaly of Queensland voting “Labor”
at State elections and Liberal-C.P. at
Federal elections. At many Queensland
State elections I have protested to the
presiding-officer against my register-
number being written by him on my
ballot-paper before he hands it to me to
record my “secret'’ vote. My protest
has been that this practice makes it easy
to discover how I voted, and the ballot
is therefore not secret. At Federal
elections my ballot-paper' shows my
vote and no other marking whatever,
• m
A Netherlander writing to the “Courier-
Mail” protests against the use of the word
Dutch, saying that “there has never been
a country named Dutch, or a Dutch
Government.” He’s probably right, but
the Netherlands Information Bureau, in
its latest news-sheet, speaks of Dutch
police, Dutch Parliamentarians and the
Dutch Cabinet.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Nakh”; The late “Professor” Tipper,
who used to ride queer bikes round Mel-
bourne, was wont to say that, if you want
to live a long life, don’t wear socks. An
other identity, Old Joe, implicitly be-
lieved that he cured a cold by not taking
his singlet off for a fortnight. A South
Yarra milkman, however, never gets a
cold, although his working costume,
come rain, sun, snow or blizzard, is a
pair of khaki trousers and a pair of shoes
and his night-wear consists of a single
blanket which he leaves off in summer.
He, at least, can demonstrate his resist-
ance to cold. When interviewed by a
shivering “Herald” reporter on a cold
and frosty morning with an armful of
frozen bottles held against his naked body
he seemed to the scribe like a human
radiator. He swears that the milk he
drinks forms an oily blanket round his
body.
* ❖ *
“M.J.W.” (Japan): A renegade Aus-
tralian living in this country of paradoxes,
I find that one of the inducements to
stay on is that every now and then ,one
strikes a gem like this advertisement from
the “Nippon Times,” under the heading
of “Business Opportunity”:
AMERICAN Undertaker needed for
Restaurant-Club Tachikawa. Newly-built,
enjoying high-class reputation. Owner
unable to manage. Chance unique for
competent undertaker, cash guarantee
required.
❖ ♦> A
“Spoke”: Official snobbery? When
the Otway (Vic.) shire council hopefully
asked the Lands Department if it could
name “Elizabeth” a new lake it had dis-
covered it was told that the department
did not feel justified in referring its
patriotic gesture to the relevant
authorities in England. The new lake?
It was formed last winter when a land-
slide blocked the Barwon River.
“Sister Ellell”: The A.G.H. had been
moved down the line from Darwin to
Adelaide River, and I,'new to the Army,
was detached from my unit to live and
work with them. On my first night there
I sailed out of the control-tent with a
tray of mixtures. Darkness hit me, I hit
the ground as I tripped over a rope
on a peg. Very disgruntled, I went
back, and there appeared at my elbow
a sergeant with a quizzical face, who
announced that he was the ward-sergeant.
He asked me to step outside, and in
the light of the torch he showed me two
sets of ropes. “Now these are guy-
ropes and these are weather-lines, see?”
I said I did see, and having heard that
some folk were inclined to be troppo, I
“All right, I'll chop some firewood myself!”
thought that he was definitely one. Next
morning he returned, saluted and asked
me to step outside again. “Now, wot did
I tell you they was?” “Guy-ropes and
weather-lines, sergeant,” and he choofed
off. Next morning same was repeated
again, so I said, “What is all this in aid
of, sergeant?” He replied with a grin,
“Guy-ropes and weather-lines they may
be, but that’s not what I heard you call
them when you fell over them with the
tray.”
& ❖ ❖
“Hist”: If Australian philatelists are
as active as their Canadian counterparts,
that Canadian collector seeking contacts
through the Service Department (B.
13/5/’53) should advise his local post-
office to lay in an extra stock of mail-
bags. Before the war, having three
budding collectors in the family, I sought
to help them by inserting a small ad. in
a Canadian magazine inviting exchanges.
"I don't know who to marry first —
Frankie or Roger.”
Six weeks later our postmaster-store-
keeper rang me to suggest that I should
use the truck when next I came for my
mail. There was about half a hundred-
weight in the first batch, and the flow
continued, ebbing gradually, for weeks,
Up to two years later I was still receiv-
ing belated responses. My kids were de-
lighted—more so than Dad, who had to
fork out cash for Australian stamps to
send in exchange.
“Pandanus”: “Nan’s” third disaster
(B. 20/5/’53) recalls my ancient aunt de-
liberately smashing a perfectly good
saucer. “What on earth are you do-
ing?” we asked. “I’ve broken two good
plates already this morning,” she an-
swered. “So I’m breaking this now to
save anything* more valuable.”
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Kris”: One of the worst premature
shell-burst disasters on record occurred
in the Royal Navy nearly a century ago
(B. 20/5/’53). An ironclad was engaged
in gunnery practice when one of her
9in, muzzle-loading guns burst, killing
nearly every man in the crew. The
Admiralty could not account for it until
somebody suggested that perhaps the
previous charge had misfired and a second
charge had been rammed down on top
of it, the crew not noticing ii because
the other gun had gone off. Gunnery
officers were incredulous, but experi-
ments conducted ashore showed that the
same type of gun wodld not burst even
if the shell —filled in those days with
black powder—went off inside the barrel.
They then tried loading a gun with a
double-charge, firing it, of course, from
a safe distance. It duly blew to pieces
just as the one had on the ironclad.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Irving”: The ship’s master who
recently told the Arbitration Court that
the bibulous belligerence of a member
of his crew was due to the arsenic con-
tent of island beer certainly
knows his ales. Possibly it
is the desire for a peaceful
existence which makes island
residents, for the most part,
eschew the arsenic-laced beer
in favor of spirits, with the
exception of rum, which is
also conducive to mayhem-
mindedness. Still, those who
carry the white-man’s burden
will never pass up the oppor-
tunity of drinking beer free
of preservatives whenever
the golden opportunity
presents itself, as witness the
jetty-wards mass exodus of
Thursday Island citizenry in
the old days when a China
or Jap boat called with deli-
ciously frozen Sydney or
Hong Kong beer on tap.
Usually the publicans won
the race to the ship’s bar by
a short head, and, for a glori-
ous hour or two, made alco-
holiday with their customers,
who were freed from normal
inhibitions because their
womenfolk were coincident-
ally seizing the opportunity of
patronising the ship’s barber, usually
emerging with new-style coiffeurs and a
fleeting tolerance for the libations of their
spouses.
❖ ❖ A*
“A. W. Oldsalt”: References to the
old Aorangi (B. 22/4/’53) and her im-
pending last voyage across the Pacific
bring to mind the “older” Aorangi with
her three masts and one funnel. Built in
1883, she also sailed the “All-Red Route”
for the Union Line, and her clipper-bow
ploughed the Pacific for many years.
Both vessels rendered distinguished war
services—the old Aorangi in the second
World War as a troopship, and as a
mother-ship at the Normandy landing,
the “older” lady in the Dardanelles
operations; she was sunk at Anzac Cove.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Helldud”: Removal of those pure
sheet-tin tiles from an ancient Adelaide
building (B. 6/5/’53) recalls a lucky find
by the builders erecting Parliament House
Library in Sydney around the turn of
the century. The job necessitated the
demolition of portion of the old structure,
one of the pavilions of the historic
“Rum” Hospital. Under several layers
of wallpaper the demolishes discovered
linings in boards of superb pit-sawn red
cedar. Enough cedar was recovered to
build all shelving and fittings required
for the library.
♦ ❖ *
“X.M.N.”: Norwegian shipowners are
introducing a system of self-service in
the dining-saloons of some of their
passenger-ships. Passengers, instead of
paying on an inclusive ticket, will pay
for their passage and work to a system
of pay-as-you-go for meals. Bad sailors
will at least have the consolation that
being seasick is keeping down their food
bills.
❖ * ❖
“Peter R.”: It’s not so hard as I
thought to get into the Services. I went
along to join the local C.M.F. unit, filled-
in a lot of forms, and was sent along
for a medical. The M. 0., a local medico
with a busy practice, looked at me and
then at his watch. “You’re all right,
aren’t you?” he asked. “Sure, Tip all
right,” I replied amiably. He looked
at his watch again. “All right,” he said
thankfully, “you’re all right.” He
scrawled “Al” and rushed out of the
room. Five minutes later I was in the
Army.
* * * /
“Sackfair”: Sitting alone on the local
railway-station—which is close to a
migrants’ camp —the dark-complexioned
young man was obviously waiting for a
train. From the next seat an elderly
lady regarded him, then walked over,
proffered a newspaper, and askbd, “Can
you read English?” At first* the young
man didn’t seem to understand, then he
caught on. “A leetle,” he smiled.
“Tank you; tank you verra mooch.”
The thoughtful old soul beamed as she
returned to her companion. “They’re
always so courteous,” she said. “It’s a
pity some of our own are not more like
it.” That was scarcely justice, but as
my brother-in-law said to me later, “The
old girl meant well, and I didn’t want to
make her feel silly.” Not a bad bit of
courtesy in itself —and quick thinking—
from a fourth-generation Aussie.
* ❖ *
“5 G.R.”: The mob had volunteered
for the raid and rehearsals had been per-
fect, even to the five minutes in the Hun
trench. The O.C. was to be the last to
leave, but when the actual thing took
place and the prisoners had been bundled
back, Bluey still stuck around. “Get
back,” the O.C. yelled. “The Boche is
coming on.” He shot the first to appear.
“After you, sir.” Bluey was unusually
courteous. “Get back,” he was told
again. “After you, sir.” When they
regained the battalion trench the O.C.
said “What’s wrong? Are you mad?”
“Not me, sir. Had a quid I’d be the
last man back. Now I’ll collect.”
❖ ❖ *
“Nobby”: Swinging a pick in the
bowels of the earth isn’t the only way to
get coal around Newcastle these days.
Prawn-trawlers working near the harbor
mouth, and in certain spots off Stockton
in Newcastle Bight, are bringing the
black diamonds to the surface in their
nets. One trawler, Terri K, returned to
port with four large baskets of coal on
the deck, all in big lumps, and as much
small stuff had been thrown back. Some
of the coal is still rough and sharp-edged,
apparently having been washed from the
harbor by floods; some, smooth and
barnacled, has obviously been in the
water many years. It all bums well.
Local theory is that the old stuff comes
from colliers wrecked on the Oyster Bank
—a death-trap for many a sailing vessel
in the old days. Support for the theory
comes from the fact that such coal is
always more plentiful after heavy weather,
when the sea has evidently been giving
its victims’ bones another wracking.
LIEGE ADDRESS
“A 76-year-old nobleman has auctioned his
£69,245 life-assurance policy for £55,600; the
successful bidder to pay the £lO5B premium
until his Lordship’s demise.”
You’re looking rather fit today.
My noble Lord,
A trifle, even, 1 might say.
Too well-assured;
Your life’s become a care of mine;
I like to see you doing fine ;
But don’t live on past eighty-nine —
You’d just be bored.
Although this life’s a vale of tears.
You needn’t fret;
You may be getting on in years.
But don’t forget
You still can stage a Channel-swim
To prove you’re sound in wind and limb
And have the world say : “Look at him —
Life in him yet!”
You must not have the rumor rife
Of your blue blood:
“He durst not gamble with his life
. When others would!’’
Climb Everest; go out and shoot
Tigers and elephants on foot;
Add to the Englishman’s repute —
You know, you should.
Remember Walter's great adage
Of life and fame:
A crowded hour is worth an age
Without a name;
And live, my lord, more gloriously-
Your crowded years are worth to me
A thousand each in £. s. d.
Until ... I claim.
In thirteen years I may have lost
My faith in you.
And after that it’s going to cost
Me money, too;
Some things devolve, none sterner than
Devolve upon a nobleman:
Noblesse oblige—and if you can.
Oblige me now!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Smithy”: The battle of the bowsers
is still on in full spate, and in the current
stage of the campaign all parties seem
to be centring on oil. As a pedestrian
I’m getting a little tired of having my
radio lambast my ears at all hours, in-
forming me that there is 300 per cent,
more of this, more of that and more of
the other and a bit of something else to
fill up the can. It strikes me that the
only thing oil doesn’t contain these days
is oil.
A* *
“Kelvin”: The Melbourne “Argus”
featured the story of an astute motorist
who, when about to be pinched for park-
ing, began a seemingly panic-stricken
hunt for the engine-trouble which had.
"Yair, but y' gotta be grown-up to enter."
ostensibly, dictated his halt. Instead of
a parking-ticket, he received constabulary
co-operation in the form of a carburettor
overhaul. A few days later another
citizen tried the same wheeze. Again
the Law’s minion showed every sign of
sympathy and went to work under the
bonnet for a few moments during which
he did things to a maze of wires, most
of whose ends were left suspended in the
air before the cop apologetically admitted
“I’m afraid it’s got me beat, sir. You’d
better get a mechanic.” The garage
people charged the smart one a fiver to
get the formerly sweetly-running model
into locomotive condition. The
mechanic also found clipped to the car-
burettor a cutting of the story of the
originally successful stratagem.
❖ ❖ *
“Ceg”: One man in Australia is
treasuring what he fondly believes is a
genuine souvenir of Royalty. His friend
was a barber who attended at Govern-
ment House fb£ the purpose of cutting
the vice-regal hair. Came the time when
Royalty visited these shores and the
barber was called to Government House
to trim the royal head. Busy in his
saloon, packing his bag of tools prepara-
tory to going to G.H., he was watched
by a customer who inquired what was
afoot. The barber told him, whereupon
he asked whether, as a special favor, he
might be favored with a snipping of the
royal hair. The barber agreed to bring
him a bit, but forgot all about it until
he got back to his saloon, where the sight
of some clippings on the floor reminded
him of his promise. Picking up a tuft
or two, he put them in an envelope.
Next day, in came the customer, all agog,
and asked “Did you manage to get it
for me?” The barber grinned and
handed over the envelope, receiving warm
thanks for his trouble.
♦jt
“X.S.”: Intriguing item on the notice-
board of the Independent Church in Mel-
bourne: “Rev. Lyall Dixon, M.A., B.D.
The Royal Coach.”
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“NX Mick”: During the Battle of
Britain “Whizzer” ditched in the Channel
and spent 48 hours in a rubber dinghy.
When his troopship was torpedoed two
years later and the “abandon ship”
sounded, he remembered how he’d
longed for a smoke during those 48
hours, so he raced out of his cabin laden
with cartons of Yankee cigarettes—and
jumped into the Indian Ocean. And
later on he had the hide to reckon he’d
remained calm throughout the entire
happening.
♦J< ♦♦♦ ❖
“Harry R.”: Sound-effects in early
films (B. 20/5/’53)? One night in 1907,
I and five other urchins were recruited
by a travelling movie outfit to help pro-
vide the sound-effects for the San Fran-
cisco earthquake. Our reward was a
free view of the show. As we were
loitering outside the hall in the hope of
some such miracle, we accepted the job
without question. Taken behind the
screen, we were told to climb up on to
an improvised, unsafe-looking platform
made of several long planks and
two packing-cases. Large pieces of
hardwood were handed up to us by our
employer. Many of the skyscrapers left
standing after the quake were unsafe,
and had to be destroyed by explosives.
Our sound-effects team was put to the
ready when any of these great buildings
were about to be demolished, and with
our pieces of wood raised high, we waited
breathlessly for the dramatic whisper of
our instructor, “Now, boys, drop ’em,”
and drop we did with energy and delight.
Some of the older boys were shown how
to simulate the clip-clop of the horses’
hoofs on the roadway, by knocking
together two small squares of hardwood.
Two pieces of sandpaper-covered pine
rubbed together was to give an
imitation of running water. * I envied
the boy chosen to fire blank cartridges
from a “real” revolver when scenes de-
picting the police chasing and firing at
looters among the ruins flashed on to the
screen. After synchronising the fall of
my particular piece of hardwood with
the fall of a skyscraper or two, I left the
job to the older boys, too lost in the
wonder of my first moving-picture-show
to concentrate on my task.
*£♦
“D.C.”: The records of the Mosman
Historical Society have a good deal to
say, about H.M.A.S. Sydney’s tripod-
mast. Bradley’s Head lies within the
Mosman municipality. According to the
records, the mast was purchased by Mr.
"I'll take this one, Sister. Have you got his pedigree?"
William Rankin, “a Toowoomba (Q.)
bookmaker, for £153,” and as a patriotic
gesture presented to the R.S.S.A.I.L.A. in
N.S.W. After it had lain at Cockatoo
Dockyard for some time, it was handed
over to the Mosman Council, which,
using the floating crane Titan, had it
placed in its present position. For the
dedication ceremony on November 24,
1934, a Naval order of the day instructed
H.M.A.S. Stuart (with H.R.H. the Duke
of Gloucester aboard) “to pass close to
Bradley’s Head, easing to dead slow on
approach and not increasing speed until
the Blue Ensign is broken on ‘The Mast’
and the National Anthem played.”
Stuart then proceeded on her way, taking
H.R.H. to a surf-carnival at Manly.
❖❖ ❖ .
“Irving”: I’m not sure whether
“Spicula” (B. 20/5/’53) moved to Nortlf
Queensland in quest of the “semi-clad
sun-tanned female” or the large turtle on
which she was pictorially presented in
the tourist posters on the Victorian rail-
ways, but, in either case, I’ve no sym-
pathy with his moan that he has sighted
the original of neither the lass nor her
mount. On the same hoardings every
day I’m treated to pleasing displays of
lissom lasses in lingerie as purveyed by
Phantasy Pants, Seductif Stockings and
other enterprising firms. I’ve never yet
seen any of the flappers in such interest-
ing deshabille, but, instead of denying
their existence, I just put it down, sadly,
to the fact that I don’t go to the right
places.
* * ❖
“Rag”: The cashier of a cafe I frequent
no longer believes in the individuality of
the great general public. She tells me
that the same idiotic antics are repeated
so often that she finds it difficult to be
patient and pleasant. The one which
makes her teeth grit most is that played
by the youth who, giggling girl in tow,
fumbles foolishly in his pockets and
remarks “ ’Fraid I’ll have to do the
washing-up! ” He then produces a wallet
bulging with notes, to the accompaniment
of hysterical laughter from the girl-friend.
Hardly less annoying is the customer who
folds his docket into a microscopic pellet,
which the cashier is expected to unravel
while he drums impatiently on the cash-
desk. Then comes the jolly party which
opens a half-hearted argument as to who
will pay. Just how long each of the group
can hold out before some cash is pro-
duced soon loses its fascination for a
busy cashier. Aware of her virtual im-
prisonment while she is on duty another
class of customer tries hackneyed varia-
tions of the ageless “wolf-call.” She’s
aware that from the boss’s viewpoint the
customer is always right, but she does
wish the customers wouldn’t act as though
they believe it, too.
“Sebak”: Last Sunday morning I was
reminded of an article I read years ago
concerning the technical difficulties sur-
mounted in making the film version of
H. G. Wells’s The Invisible Man. Cigar-
ettes had to be made to apparently light
themselves, lounge-chairs to sink down
as though being sat upon, etc. But the
most effective sequence, it was claimed,
was the easiest to achieve ; the part was
where the invisible man seized a bicycle
and rode it down a village street. To
create the illusion the director merely
had a fixed-wheel bike pushed from the
top of the rise, the revolving pedals did
the rest. I did not even know that I
still remembered the article until the car
in which I was riding approached a
motorbike-and-side-car cruising along
behind a small, covered-in truck. Sud-
denly I found myself goggling—there
was no rider on the bike and no passenger
in the side-car! The outfit reached the
bottom of the slope, then continued up
the rise and over the crest. It became
imperative, if I was ever going to regard
myself as a sane man again, to catch
up with that vehicle. We did—and found
it was attached to the truck ahead. Don’t
ask me how the truckdriver controlled
the steering of the tow. I only know
he did it.
♦ ❖ *
“Yair”: Trade was slack in George-
street when the barrowman, in a fog-
horn voice, roared, “Australian cigarettes
and bottled beer!” Heads swung to-
wards him, women looked puzzled, men
edged across. Gloatingly, the barrow-
man snorted to the men, “Settle down,
mates, I’m not selling cigs or beer; I
only want to know where I can buy
’em.” No answers, but a positive
harvest of nasty looks.
*' ❖ ❖
“Pie-eater”: The rules of cycle road-
racing necessitates that any “go-fast”
victuals required be handed to com-
petitors by pedestrians only. Before
leaving to start in the Goulbum-to-
Sydney, Sandy explained the technique
to his club’s newest junior, emphasising
that fleet-footedness was needed. “Did
he move fast enough?” we asked the
exhausted, leg-weary Sandy after he’d
finished 26 minutes behind the leaders.
“I’ll say he did,” panted Sandy. “He
ran so fast up Bass Hill that I couldn’t
catch him.”
♦♦♦ * ❖
“Emjai”: There was free entertain-
ment on the Melbourne trams some years
ago when a conductor brightened the
journey with sometimes startling an-
nouncements at the stops. At the Chapel-
street and Commercial-road corner, a
shopping hub, the call was “Robbery
corner.” The stop before was Prahran
market, where he chanted “To market,
to market, to buy a fat pig,” or “Turkey-
lolly, crays and cabbages.” As the crowd
struggled on and off and a bustling veteran
used his weight he cried “Coming
through. Mind the old-time ruckman.”
Then “Gangway, there. Make way for
the lady with the wooden leg.” That was
where he slipped, for the woman pro-
tested that it wasn’t a wooden leg at all,
but just corns. Invited to prove it, she
told him things about himself which
damped his humor for the rest of the
trip. We missed him from the run soon
after.
CAN YOU BEAT IT!
“Analysis of 30 of the best-selling popular
songs of 1952 has disclosed that the dominating
theme in 16 is the heart, with eyes and lips
sharing most of the remainder. Hair is not
mentioned at all.”
If you would write a red-hot pop.-song
that
Would knock ’em flat,
The hit-parade proudly destined to
head,
Win all the titles,
Don’t sing of love-nests, altars, moon-
drenched sands
In far-off lands —
Just give them something they’ll lap up
instead:
Organ recitals.
Where once you couldn’t possibly go
wrong
By building song
Upon the shining tress the bard
declared
Was woman’s glory,
That theme’s a washout now. The
perm.’s the bunk;
And he’d be sunk
Who sang of someone’s being golden-
haired
In rhythmed story.
Twin pools in which a man may drown
his soul
You may extol
And, if the um-ti-tum part’s right, you
could
Be on a winner.
The curved, encarnadined, enticing lips
Can bring in chips.
But it’s the cardiac organ that’s the
good
Old money-spinner!
That tough, hard-working muscle, that’s
so oft
Described as soft.
That, scorning strikes and go-slow
tactics, pumps
So rhythmically.
The rhythmic rhapsodies it has inspired!
The songs it’s sired!
Ah, hearts are never anything but
trumps
In Tin Pan Alley!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


When ft's an
Exide—you start!
txibt
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNET
■ VXiM
PERSONAL ITEMS
Coronation Knights
K.8.E.: Wilmot Hudson Fysh, first of
his name to fly—over land, at any rate.
Geelong Grammar gave him his
secondary education; his university was
the 3rd Light Horse and the Ist Machine
Gunners; post-graduate training took
him into the A.F.C. He came out with
D.F.C., and in 1920 founded Qantas,
the first commercial passenger service in
the British Empire, now grown into one
of the world’s largest. The only feature
of the Qantas landscape unchanged is
Ye Olde Flying Fysh—as his mates in
Longreach in the old days used to call
him.
Clive Selwyn Steele, major-general,
chief-engineer of the Ist Australian
Army Corps in the Middle East. He
won M.C. in War I, and, in 1941, D. 5.0.,
few saving the situation at Pharsala
Bridge, Greece. A bomb exploded a
truck of amonal; Stukas did their
vertical best to stir up the confusion. A
consulting-engineer in civil life, he’s
director of half a dozen Melbourne com-
panies.
Knights Bachelor:
Garfield Barwick, who had the Bank Grab
case in his satchel in 1948, as well as the wheat-
growers’ in their claim on the Federal Govern-
ment. He became president of the Law Council
of Australia last year, and is ready and willing
at any time to accept a brief for arguing the
attractions of the snow-country for recreating.
George Holland, a particularly hard worker
for servicemen of both wars, and for many
years president of the Victorian R.S.L. He
was a natural choice for the Federal presidency
when knight Eric Millhouse died in 1950.
Raymond Huish, for close on a quarter of a
century president of the Queensland R.S.L. He
qualified for League membership by four years
with the sth Light Horse, and for looking after
Digger interests by a solid personal appeal, able
business capabilities and a zeal for organisa-
tion. Directorially concerned with almost a
dozen companies, he was awarded C.B.E. in
1937, the year he received the gold badge
of life-membership of his League.
Thomas Manifold, Geelong Grammar and
Cambridge product, Victorian Cabinet Minister
in the Argyle Government of the early 1930’5,
leading Victorian grazier and two-War Digger.
Chairman of the V.R.C.
William McKie (a line or two of musical
degrees), organist and Master of the Choristers
at Westminster Abbey, whose organ-playing, on
the occasion of an important function last
week, was heard by an audience whose numbers
have given McKie an all-time record. A tall,
dark, diffident Australian, as Melbourne’s city-
organist he started free lunchtime concerts and
packed ’em in for two sessions daily with the
three B’s. Four years R.AA.F.-time in War 11.
Shirley Jeffries, one-time Attorney-General
and Minister for Education and of Employ-
ment and Industry in S. Australia. Bom in
England, educated to a law degree in Adelaide,
he’s a pillar of Methodism and made his mark
in tennis and football in days of yore.
Geoffrey Reed, former lecturer at Adelaide
University on private international law and
law of evidence and procedure; S. Australian
Supreme Court Judge since 1943, former
Director-General of Security in Canberra and
chairman of Adelaide’s Commonwealth Club.
He was admitted to the Bar in 1914 and to the
A.I.F. about the same time.
Ernest von Bibra, a Gallipoli-lander who won
a commission in the field there, commanded a
trench-mortar battalion in France and was
invalided out in 1918. Between 1944-50 Tas-
manian secretary of the R.S.L., he was bom in
Launceston, became its mayor in 1935, and is
now Tasmanian Agent-General in London.
John McEwen, new P.C., is a long,
thoughtful-looking Minister, whose air
of mild preoccupation belies his dynamic
energy and brought him the affectionate
sobriquet of “Black-eyed Susan” when
he first joined the Reps. His studious
stoop stems from a period in the Crown
Solicitor’s office bfefore War 1. After the
A.I.F. had finished with him he took on
farming—he has one of the most modern
farming properties in Victoria—sat for
the Echuca seat as a United C.P. man,
then moved to Indi. A competent
Minister of the Interior, a diligent and
incessant worker, after a short term as
Minister for External Affairs he suc-
ceeded to the Air Ministership in 1940,
after the death of J. V. Fairbairn. Now
Minister for Commerce and Agriculture,
and in the role best-suited to his talents
and experience, he’s had just under 20
years in politics and currently looks after
the political interests of the Murray
(Vic.) electorate. He is one of the most
lucid speakers in the House.
Almost a year ago ’twas here noted
that W- R. (Bill) Clarkson and Kodak
were practically synonymous terms in
Sydney. Clarkson joined Kodak back in
1925 in Adelaide, Peached Sydney in
1939, became N.S.W. manager in 1949,
and this month heads for New Zealand
to become manager for that Dominion.
He takes with him, in addition to keen
business and organisational ability, a
cheery and well-informed personality,
with a good sense of humor. The turf
attracts him as a spectator sport, but golf
is what he likes doing. A vice-president
of Eastlakes (Sydney) golf club, he has
held all offices in Sydney’s Rostrum
Clubs (which indulge in weekly luncheons
and speeches with the dessert) and is a
councillor of the Savage Club. He leaves
a married daughter behind ; Mrs. Clark-
son and son Ken go to N.Z. later.
Switching off the mike after 24 years
with the A.8.C., Conrad Charlton,
genial six-footer who has been the com-
mission’s Westralian manager since 1947,
after managing in Perth for over 10
years. A New Zealander by birth, he
was severely wounded while serving with
the Kiwis in War I, from which he re-
turned with a captain’s pips. In younger
days he was a noted Rugger player and
a professional singer, a member of the
Film’s choruses in “The Student Prince”
and other musical comedies. He joined
the A.B.C. as announcer and sporting
commentator in 1929. One of his milder
hobbies is breeding racing-pigeons.
From “Ek Dum”;
I made an error (B. 3/6/’53) in my review of
the new official World War II history in assum-
ing that “John Herington” on the jackets of
the volumes already published was meant to
represent the name of John Hetherington, one
of the most distinguished of Australian war
correspondents. Actually, it appears, there is
a Mr. John Herington, who is writing the Air
Force volumes.
Caricatured by Coventry, Sydney Fair-
baim Rowell adds a Coronation K.B.E. to
his C.B. and C.B.E. A Gallipoli officer of
S. F. ROWELL, K.B.E.
Light Horse, he was invalided in 1916;
his career since then has been a steady
climb through high administrative posi-
tions. He went overseas in 1939,
Blarney’s chief staff-officer, and returned
in 1941, fresh from all the major cam-
paigns the A.I.F. had been engaged in in
the Middle East, to become Deputy-
Chief of General Staff. As from 1950,
the “deputy” has been deleted. Son of
a colonel, the new knight is 58.
Harold Holt, new Privy Councillor, was,
at the beginning of the war, the youngest
Minister in the Menzies Cabinet —30.
He was 26 when he had a political crack
at Scullin in 1934. Though that didn’t
come off, the following year he was
in, M.H.R. for Fawkner. Educated at
Wesley and Melbourne University, he
became assistant to Maxwell, the blind
barrister who then held the Fawkner
seat. When Maxwell died, Holt left his
practice for politics. At 32 he became
Minister for Labor and National
Service; at 44, with an eight-year break
out of office, he’s still that. His father,
Tommy Holt, in his day well-known in
HAROLD HOLT, P.C.
the Australian theatre, was F. W.
Thring’s offsider in endeavors to make
feature-films in Australia.
“M.” on a modernist;
The halt, the lame, the literati, the Bohemian
intellectuals, long-haired girls, boys and babies,
typists and washerwomen —in fact, all Mel-
bourne —are pouring into the National Gallery,
and without a passing glance at Rembrandt or
even Phar Lap are crowding the Latrobe Gallery
to have a look at Picasso’s lobster-eyed lady,
the enormous tapestries of Lourcat, the abstrac-
tions (some of which look suspiciously like
doodlings), and other examples of modern Paris
art fashions. Nobody has helped to lead more
young artists to this fount of inspiration than
George Henry Frederick Bell. A National
Gallery student, an official artist in War I,
an exhibitor at the salons of Munich, Dussel-
dorf, Paris and the R.A., and a member of
the Modern Society of Portrait Painters in
London, he was the typical example of the
fashionable academic painter until his return to
Australia in 1921. A few years later he was a
rebel, a fauve, the avant garde south of the
Yarra, where his studio was situated. Soon
most of the aspiring younger artistic generation
were thronging his school in Melbourne. The
Contemporaries were founded, Melbourne
“Herald” gave them its benediction by importing
a collection of the originals that his followers
had hitherto only seen in reproduction, and
after that the movement never looked back.
Instead of rebels, his followers found them-
selves universally fashionable, honored and
accepted. Bernard Hall, the old director, had
said that a modernist’s work would enter the
National Gallery over his dead body. Today
it would be difficult for a picture to get ill
unless it was 100 years old or at least as
crooked as Picasso’s. Bell is 75, and didn’t
become modernist until he was over 50; it is
interesting to note in this connection that the
founders of the movement are now old men.
Matisse is 81, Picasso is 72, Modigliani 69.
“Sea-dredged Treasure,” on page 27
of this issue, was written at Puket, Siam,
where the writer, Thomas Miles (now of
Wahroonga, Sydney), was within sight
and sound of Tongkah Harbor No, 7
dredge, sole survivor of the original fleet
of dredges with which his father, Capt.
E. T. Miles, pioneered the fabulous
winning of tin from the underwater sands
thereabout. Eighteen at the time, the son
(as he mentions in his vividly human
account) was one of the original dredg-
ing-team. That was in 1906-7, since when
members of the Miles family have been
continuously engaged in the management
of tin-dredging companies up there —a
stretch of 47 years, broken only by the
Jap intrusion, which landed one son and
three grandsons of the old pioneer into
internment or p.-0.-w, camps. In all,
five sons and four grandsons of Captain
Miles have been engaged in the industry
for various periods during the 47 years
—a record held to be unique. Moreover,
at- least six dredging companies in Malaya
as well, which are still operating and
paying dividends, were formed and man-
aged by sons of Captain Miles. Tongkah
Harbor, or Puket, where the first start
was made, has now produced over 20,000
tons of tin and paid over a million pounds
in dividends.
At the opening at South Melbourne
of Australia’s first automatic gas-oil
plant. Dr. R. S. Andrews, chairman of
the Gas and Fuel Corp., said that Vic-
toria had had a raw deal in the past so
far as Maitland (N.S.W.) gas-making
coal was concerned —now the skill of
Australian engineers and workers had
produced a substitute capable of provid-
ing nearly 3,000,000 cubic feet a day, a
triumph for Australian ingenuity. Mainly
responsible is L. L. Pemberton, construc-
tion-engineer for Gas Corp. Appro-
priately enough, he’s a New South
Welshman; he learnt his craft in the
Sydney gas industry. A modest man,
he praised the Footscray workshops and
the U.S. text-books whence came his
blueprints.
Breaking a 22-years’ association with
the Westralian Employers’ Federation,
George Frederick Gill goes to Mel-
bourne to take over the secretaryship of
the Australian Metal Industries Associa-
tion. From 1946 to 1949 he was em-
ployers’ representative on the bench of
the Westralian Arbitration Court, but left
that perch to become secretary of the
Westralian Employers’ Federation. Dur-
ing the Hitler disturbance he served with
the R.A.A.F, and was a flight-lieutenant
on demobilisation. Main weekend em-
ployments are tennis and yachting,
“Macnell”; Kept the Last Trick,
Admiral Sir Guy Gaunt, R.N. (retired),
old Melbourne Grammar boy and mem-
ber of one of the city’s distinguished
families. Eldest brother Sir Ernest, also
R.N. admiral, ex-Melbourne Grammar,
was rear-admiral commanding the First
Battle Squadron at Jutland. He died
in 1940. Another brother, Lt.-Colonel
C. R. Gaunt, served with the 4th Dragoon
Guards on India’s stormy North-west
Frontier, in the Boer War and Mesopo-
tamia. Sister Mary, sometime journalist
on Melbourne “Age” and “Argus,”
turned out a shelf of books, mostly
novels. Their father was a Victorian
judge and Governor of the Goldfields.
Guy started in the Mercantile Marine,
got his master’s ticket, joined the Royal
Navy, commanded file Swift in the
Philippines operations of 1897, and, two
years later, was in command of the
British Consulate at Apia during the rebel
attack on the town. Promoted com-
mander for his handling of that land
operation, he served on the China Station
in the Russo-Jap shindy. In War Ihe
was naval attache in Washington, but
went back to sea towards the end, com-
modore of Atlantic convoys. Eighty-
four at the end, in Surrey (Eng.).
Into the Silence:
In Perth, Dr. Alexander Juett, leading ortho-
paedic surgeon and third Westralian Rhodes
Scholar. After his preliminary schooling at
Perth Christian Brothers’ College, he entered
Brasenose College, Oxford, graduated in medi-
cine and surgery, and won a Hulme research
scholarship. His service with the A.I.F. from
1916 to 1918 earned him a “mention.” One-
time president of the W.A. Rhodes Scholars’
Association, he spent much of his time between,
during and after the World Wars in philan-
thropic work —and in avoiding publicity.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 78, Arthur Fairburn,
who combined his job with Colonial Sugar
with that of music-critic for the Auckland
“Star.” His grandfather was a signatory of
the Waitangi Treaty, which brought Mew Zealand
under the British Flag.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Annie Elizabeth Ramsay,
chairman of directors of the Kiwi polish co.
from 1923 to 1933. Her husband founded the
company, and when he died in 1914 she became
a permanent director.
In Perth, at 57, Edgar Morrow, Old Digger,
policeman and author. He changed khaki for
blue in 1920, and was stationed in the north-
west for years. He made his service overseas
with the 28th Battalion the subject of his first
book. The second, a more ambitious effort
entitled The Law Will Provide, told his
experiences of police-work in the wide north-
west.


HOT STUFF


ABORIGINALITIES
“Salmon Gums”: When do night birds
sleep? I’m not trying to be funny—l
really want to know. For a few months
a nanke'en night-heron has been camping
in a tree within 20yds, of my back
door. It come's in just before dawn,
with the silent flight of all night birds,
settles down on a branch, and merges
remarkably well with the foliage. If it
turns in then, it’s a mighty light sleeper.
As soon as I venture from the house
it puts its lamp on me and keeps it
there, and it follows the movements of
everything in the yard, including the dog
and two cats. Something or other is
happening almost continuously under
that tree, and it sees the lot. Yet half
an hour after dark it flies off down to
the swamp to join its noisy cobbers and
make the night hideous with its screams.
You’d think a bird like that would hide-
up during the day in the reeds where it
could rest in peace. I wonder why it
doesn’t? ,
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Only those who’ve been
through it know how two men, though
“You haven't got the knack of it yet.”
they’d die for each other if it came to that,
can come to hate each other when isolated
together for months at a stretch in. an
outback camp. Nobody knows when it
starts, but somewhere along the weeks
one or the other suddenly flares up about
nothing and from then on anything can
happen. Plenty of times the patience
of one mate keeps the peace, but if you
get two mates of pretty much the same
temperament there’s danger. Like Billy
and t Jones. Both were quiet, both in-
clined to philosophy, neither was aggres-
sive, They’d been four months alone on
Moonlight when they reappeared at the
head-station, Billy driving the sulky and
Jones with his left hand in a sling and
one eye closed. “Think he’s got a
broken wrist,” Billy said. (The doctor
m Euston later confirmed it.)
“What happened?” “He
come at me an’ I knocked
him.” It wasn’t until the
following Christmas that,
with a few drinks in, Billy
confessed the row had
started because, asked to
pass the matches, he casu-
ally threw the box across
the hut.
* * • *
“Edx”: The camel-coax-
ing Afghan who played a
prominent part in the de-
velopment of Westralian
goldfields (B. 13/5/’53) was
not always without esteem
in his adopted land. Com-
plaints against him were
numerous enough, mostly
concerning his and his
camels’ ablutionary habits
at wells and rockholes, but
he had his virtues. One was
his übiquity; he was usually
where he was wanted, when
he was wanted, with what
was wanted —food and water
for men both in camp and
on the track. Another was
his trading honesty; also, he
added yet another race to
the rich mix of nationalities
that pioneered the ’fields, and, robed and
tufbaned, with, his leading camels
decked out in hats of multicolored
woollen tfet and festooned with shells and
bright beads, with his “HoOshtas” and
his strange cries to Allah, he lent a
dash of color, a touch of romance, even
if the stink were a bit excessive, to the
harsh brown background of the gold-
fields story, and names like Gherney
Khan and Tagh Mahomet are woven into
its fabric as closely as those of Bayley
and Hannan themselves. Many a man
and syndicate were backed by the
Mahomet (or Mohammed) brothers from
their store in Coolgardie. They were be-
hind the first‘gold found at Darlot on
the Lower Murchison; but it is strange
that, close as they always were to the
scene of things, few, if any, of the
Afghans ever took more than a secondary
interest in the actual winning of gold.
The age-old lure, with its amazing variety
of effects on the European, whom,
whether it enriched or impoverished, de-
based or ennobled, it rarely failed to en-
slave once it gained a hold, seemed to
get no purchase in the Afghan heart;
hucksters and carters they remained to
the end.
* * ♦ *
“Brick E.”; The Council may recall
my account of the silver-grey possum
that fell 60ft, on to an iron grille, rolled
off to the ground another 10ft., yet was
back in residence on the lofty girder a
couple of days later (B. 15/4/’53). There
is a sequel now. On a recent dull day
Silver awoke from a doze, uncurled him-
self until his body formed a horseshoe,
then, putting his head in the hollow thus
formed, seemed to be suffering from
some complaint that caused the upper
part of his body to jerk up and down.
When an investigator approached the
possum twisted suddenly, turned his back
for an instant, then wheeled to the front
again, standing on his hind-legs, sparring
up, and wearing his fighting face.
Yesterday we were working in a posi-
"The four-thirty's running late."
tion slightly higher than Silver’s possie,
and were able to see inside the horse-
shoe. A more entrancing sight I never
wish to see: Silver is a lady, and the
jerkings are caused by her movements as
she washes a pretty little joey with her
tongue, affection in every lick. Now it
becomes indisputable that she was either
pregnant or was carrying the baby in
her pouch when she suffered that fall.
Before, I thought her escape was amaz-
ing, but now, with “both doing well,” it
seems close to the miraculous.
* * * *
“Bass”: At Yalgoo (W.A.) they reckon
they’ve settled an old problem. When
a plague of frogs came with a heavy
rain the old argument developed—did
they come up or down? In such cases
they nearly always come out of the
ground, where they’ve been waiting for
the rain. But occasionally fish come
down in showers —Perth had such a
deluge some 30 years ago when fish
were found in many of the streets —so
presumably frogs could, too. Yalgoo is
certain they do. After the rain they
were found on housetops, and there’s not
a chance in a million that they climbed
there.
* * * *
“Sackville”: Perhaps the introduction
of buff el-grass to Central Australia will
turn arid regions into pasture lands (B.
29/4/’53), but introduced assets have a.
habit of becoming liabilities in Australia,
and’that can apply to grasses. Around
the beginning of this century a James
Brown, first principal of the Granville
(N.S.W.) Technical School (his portrait
done in oils by Alfred Coffey is still
preserved in the original building), intro-
duced a new grass to the district. It
didn’t immediately adapt itself to the
new conditions, but by patience, perse-
verance and careful cultivation he got
the strange grass firmly established.
Today a fortune awaits the man who can
devise an effective (non-poisonous),
reasonably economical method of eradi-
cating the greatest pest that Sydney’s
suburban councils battle with. In dairy-
ing districts, of course, it pays its way.
The grass was paspalum.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: “Bo’s” article on “ice-
bergs” (B. 20/5/’53) reminded me of a
New Guinea experience. All day we had
toiled through head-high kunai-grass
which shut off the breeze. The sun,
blazing down from aij unclouded sky,
had the sweat pouring out of us. Late in
the afternoon we reached a small creek
that emerged from a narrow gorge in
cloud-capped mountains. All save one of
us had but a single thought—to brew tea
and settle down to an hour or two of
steady drinking. The odd man began to
pull off his sweat-soaked clothing. I’d
been in the country long enough to be
something of an old hand, so I tried to
warn him that it would be freezing, the
stream having dropped around 6000 ft.
in a few miles. He scoffed. “I’m
one of the Glenelg icebergs when
I’m home,” he boasted. “We take
a dip in the sea all through the
winter.” He dived, and I never saw any-
one come out of the water quicker than
he did. He swore afterwards that his
chin was bruised where his knees had shot
up and bumped it as his body contracted
with the shock. I’ve had two midwinter
dips in the sea myself. Once an “iceberg”
kidded me into trying it; the other time
I dived overboard from a fishing-cutter
to recover a cherished sheathknife. On
each occasion I was cold before I went
in, but a shock like that is nothing com-
pared to diving into mountain water in
the tropics when your body is steaming-
hot.
* * * ♦
“P.0.M.C.”: I’m not surprised at an
Australian cattle-dog understanding
French (B, 20/5/’53). My boyhood fox-
terrier obeyed my father’s commands in
Afrikaans as promptly as my brother’s
and mine in English. Dogs, of course,
are activated purely by the sounds (especi-
ally rhymes) of words and phrases, not
fay their meanings, while inflections of
voice convey more significance to dogs
than the most familiar language.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: Empire Night found my
huge larrikin of a mong transformed
into a terrified, pitiful creature; he had
to be put in a shed where the
reports reached him in muffled, form.
But his cousin by marriage (mine) was
right in the thick of the kids’ bonfire and
enjoying every minute of it. Minor ex-
plosions all around him didn’t worry the
kelpie, and tom-thumbs that went off as
he pounced on ’em didn’t even cause him
to register canine surprise. As a grand
finale the kids had saved a whopper
hunger. When it was set up on a stump
the watching females withdrew to a dis-
creet distance. The wick was lit; it
burnt down quickly, then seemed to hang
fire, though a tiny red spark glowed a
warning that anything could still happen.
Suddenly a bounding, boisterous lump of
canine exuberance shot across the
recently - vacated area, grabbed the
hunger in his mouth and wheeled tri-
umphantly. No ; he didn’t rush straight
into the midst of the shrieking females
in a modern version of Lawson’s classic;
he ran five or six paces, stopped abruptly,
then ate the thing. No, it didn’t go
off after he’d swallowed it, either — but
by golly those kids didl
SNOWY, 1953
The blizzard raves by Tumut Ponds
(You leave Talbingo far below)
As, filigreed in ice, the fronds
Of fernstuffs shimmer in the snow
As in the days of long ago , . ,
Here, where the bone-cold stockman rode
Cocooned in flannel to the gills,
Where the colt Regret the rails bestrode
And men were mates in the Snowy’s hills
And mateship banished many ills.
Remember the freeze of ’ninety-four?
And how Tom Harpur lost his ear
When Dry-Rot Charlie banged the door
In a thirst-mad rush to the thawing beer?
Ghosts of the mountain dead are near.
As the flurries weave you may hear their words:
“Lorrd bless ye, Mac,” “God bless you, Joe,”
“Art graadely, Saam?” —and the wheeling birds
Call quick reply over sleet-minced snow
To the mountain shades of long ago.
So soon the hut door looses light
And the booted migrant calls “Wer da?”
As though he hears them from the night
Or feels the voices from that Star
Beyond the bounds of Near or Far.
“Ach! Wass ist los? —Bin ich verriickt?”
The Snowy worker turns for bed
To dream, as a well-blessed benedict,
Of a little son with a golden head
Who will tread the paths of the mountain dead.
They snakke Norsk by Smiggins Hole,
They sprechen Deutsch by the upper snow
As the tongues of Magyar, Czech and Pole
Search for the words their sons will know:
Were our fathers all from Plymouth Hoe?
N.S.W.
ERIC BAUME.


“Mat’s Mate”: The day we played
Two Wells, Mat found himself harried by
a lathy youth with a sawny face and big
feet. It was not that he beat Mat to
the knockout in the rucks, he simply
got in Mat’s way. When Mat went to
centre half-back Lathy became centre
half-forward and his feet or his face
or his ears or something kept getting
between Mat and the ball. Even when
the big fellow marked and took the kick
Lathy somehow propelled himself to col-
lide with the ball. All this with a grin
like a slobbering great pup and a general
clumsiness that was funny to watch but
maddening to endure. At threequarter
time Mat strolled over to the Two Wells
captain, indicated Lathy, and said,
“Where’d you get that bloke?” “Aw,
him,” was the answer. “We was a man
short an’ just put him in t’ make up.
He can’t play.” Mat pursed his lips.
“Can’t he!” he drawled. “Well, all I
can say is that he makes it flamin’
awkward for those who think they can.”
♦ * * *
“Kros”: Cows definitely do sleep
(B. 27/5/’53). All creatures fairly well
up in the scale of development do, and
probably even the lowlier forms of life
do, too. Enough investigation has not
yet been done to determine for sure
whether or not all insects sleep (some,
however, hibernate and others have rest-
periods, which may be akin to sleep).
The life-span of some lowly creatures
is only a few hours, and sleep may not
be in their scheme of things. But all
animals with a highly-developed nervous
system need to sleep at regular, period-
ical intervals, as man does. Even the
creatures which hibernate (and hiber-
nation itself is sleep—prolonged sleep)
sleep also during the period of their
active life. Birds, of course, sleep—any
bird-fancier or poultryfarmer can con-
firm that; and, according to the
Encyclopaedia Britannica, even fish show
“unmistakably” that they sleep at regular
intervals.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Gunidj”: There are two ways to get
the grease out of eelskins —or most other
skins —prior to tanning. If you can, get
one of the old-fashioned copying-presses,
put the skin in it with half a dozen
thicknesses of blotting-paper on each
side, screw it down and put out in the
hot sun for a few hours. If not, tack the
skin out on a bit of board and put some
sawdust out in the sun. When the saw-
dust is dry and hot, put an inch-thick
layer of it on the skin and leave in the
sun, replacing it with fresh sawdust every
half-hour until the skin no longer sweats
grease. Never mind about the grease
which gets into the fur —if any. That
washes out quite easily in warm, soapy
water later.
* * * *
“Clonk”: Worse than any old sheep-
yard is a spot where the earth catches
fire (B. 20/5/’53). I discovered this at
Rendlesham (S.A.) when I boiled the
billy on a clear spot in a black-soil pad-
dock. I’d just made the tea when a local
landowner drove up with a drum of
water and a shovel. As he dug up the
spot where I had lit the fire and turned
the soil into mud with water from the
drum he said: “There’s nine or ten feet
of peat on this flat. Once it gets alight
the only way to put it out is to trench
around the spot right down to the clay
and isolate the burning patch. Water
won’t do it. We get a twenty-seven inch
rainfall here, but peat keeps burning
all the same. As you go towards Milli-
cent,” he added, “look for a deep pit
on the right of the road. It wasn’t dug
to get gravel or anything like that. It’s
“Ever try it yourself , Smith ?”
where a peat-fire a few years ago burned
away half an acre of land right down to
the clay. That spot will never grow
anything again.”
* ♦ ’» *
“Lofty”: “Red Cedar” (B. 13/5/’53)
would be less puzzled by the apparent
lack of interest in red-cedar had he heard
the remarks made by the foreman of a
large joinery factory in Lismore (N.S.W.).
I heard a cocky with an expectant smile
on his face ask if the firm was interested
in buying “a few cedar-trees.” He
registered dismay when the laconic
answer came “Not even a little bit,
mate,” “But they’re good straight trees,”
he persisted. “Still not interested,” was
the foreman’s reply. “But if you’ve got
any good pine out there I’m interested.”
He went on to explain that the amount
of waste in the average cedar-tree made
it a not-so-profitable buy, whereas pine
cut more timber to the tree, and its uses
were many and varied. Cedar, on the
other hand, has its main use in show
furniture or fittings. Perhaps that is why
the Forestry Department has concen-
trated on pine-planting.
* * * *
“W.J.W.”: I’d take “Snaffle” up on the
subject of horsemanship (B. 6/5/’53) if I
knew which he considers the most im-
portant part of the combination—the
horse or the rider. He says the cor-
rectly-balanced rider is easier on the horse
than the bushmari-style rider, and he may
be right. I’ve never seen a horse ridden
that style for days on end over rough
country under semi-tropical conditions.
But, granting that he is right, is that a test
of horsemanship? Whatever the con-
ditions under which a horse is being
“ Hey—which hole's f'r livestock?”
ridden, most of them are shared by the
rider, and of the two jobs the rider’s is
often the harder. Any rider worth con-
sidering does everything he can to ease
his mount’s task, and he’s justified in
doing what he can to ease his own. On
any long jobs, like droving or mustering,
the rnpunts are changed daily or oftener ;
the rider carries on. So I’ll say the object
of any particular style is to keep the
rider in the saddle day after day while he
gets the best use he can out of a series of
horses. The bushman style does that. It’s
a style evolved by men who spend most
of their waking hours in the saddle and
don’t give two hoots what they look like
in it. Moreover, it’s designed for a horse
that knows its job and mostly leaves it
to the rider to stick in the saddle while
it turns on a square inch and changes
direction without any more warning than
is given by the animal in front. “Snaffle’s”
style might be all right for riding a
“hard-pulling hunter across country” in
England. I’d like to take him after stock
under conditions that he’d strike on any
fair-sized station, or after brumbies on a
blackboy-studded plain around some
Westralian estuary. If he was still riding
showman style at the end of a week I d
be prepared to review the case.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Reading James Tucker’s
Ralph Rashleigh, I found myself shying
at the passage that described the escaped
convicts’ terrible revenge on a brutal
overseer. I don’t doubt there were men
capable of such fiendish cruelty as to tie
a hated captive on an antbed, but I’ll
never believe that, in one night, the
victim would have been almost com-
pletely eaten away, and in another two
hours reduced to polished bones. Even
if a carcass as large as a man’s could
be pulled to pieces by millions of minute
jaws in such a comparatively short time,
no antbed in N.S.W. would be big enough
to store the acquired fodder —and, after
all, a meat-ant has no other object in
view when he bites. Put an average-
sized bluetongue on an antbed and you’ll
notice very little difference in one night.
A couple of days may see him hollowed
out, but weeks will pass before the outer
shell is completely gone. Any sizeable
snake will be on a bed for at least a
week beforb the ribs begin to show
through; perhaps a month before no-
thing but “polished bones” remains.
“Bert the Carpenter”: Tell anyone
from Westralia that we have better hard-
woods than jarrah and you’ll buy a fight;
but it’s a fact. 'Recently I helped to dis-
mantle an old building. All the uprights
save one were jarrah. We soon found
it was a wonder that the factory hadn’t
fallen down, for the bolts which passed
through those posts had rusted to threads.
It was the same with 'any nail which had
been driven* 3 into jarrah. We didn’t have
to dig up the posts; a shove snapped
them off at ground-level. In a solitary
corner-post, however, neither bolts nor
nails had rusted away. It was still sound
below ground, too. A chip off it con-
firmed my surmise; South Australian
redgum, a timber as superior to jarrah
as jarrah is to sandhill-grown stringybark.
This poses the question: Why isn’t the
redgum' ( E . rostrata ) used in forestry
plantations? The tree grows naturally
on all the creek- and river-flats in S.A.,
Vic. and a big portion of N.S.W. Along
the Murray and its tributaries alone there
is room for millions of redgums. Its
timber makes wonderful railway-sleepers,
posts, joists and flooring. A forestry man
once told me its growth is too slow to
make it a commercial proposition, I
believed him until I saw last year a stand
of redgums which had regenerated from
seeds on an area cut over in 1914. They
average 9ft. in girth and most have
straight trunks running up 30ft. to the
first branch.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: Out from Menzies,
about 80 miles n.-n.-w. of Kalgoorlie
(W.A.), there’s a stretch of road that has
the engineers interested. After carrying
heavy traffic for 16 years it still isn’t
corrugated. The Roads Board engineer
reckons it’s because of the earth with
which it’s surfaced, and he’s having this
earth tested. It seems to be just ordinary
earth with a clay base, but if it really
resists corrugations it will be worth its
weight in concrete. No one has been able
to estimate the damage caused to vehicles
by corrugations in W.A.’s country roads.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: . I was rather sur-
prised to read in John Fairfax’s excellent
Historic Roads Round Sydney that the
author had been unable to find anybody
who could tell him which portion of
Liverpool Hospital and Old Men’s Home
was the original Army Barracks, a struc-
ture built when the colony was in its
early thirties. The answer is: the rear
of the wing slightly to the right from tHe
main entrance. Possibly the front por-
tion is part of the original building also
—the bricks are of the old-fashioned
“sandstock” or hand-made type. It is old,
undoubtedly, but it may not be part
of the barracks. There can be no doubt
about the rear portion, however; it’s
partly-underground basement was indis-
putably the old guardhouse. When
I saw the little dark dens first,
some 15 years ago, it was not difficult
to imagine red-coated soldiers seated with
backs to the heavily-buttressed walls
as they polished their buttons. But
it was the groined-vaulted ceiling that
fascinated me. Years later, when my
job took me to the home again, I
determined to make a rough sketch of
that ceiling. I was too late. The whole
basement was locked up as a vast store-
room. No doubt that was why Fairfax
did not read for himself the information
he sought.
* * ♦ ♦
“Neerim”; It was at Horse Shoe
Creek, in the N.T., that I ran against
an abo. whose “pidgin” I didn’t under-
stand (and I was bom at Pine Creek).
The horseboy said “Plouii-bag, plour-
bag” (the while he stroked his neck and
rear end). “Piccaninny catchem, little bit
more purder totherside, little bit more
purder this side him sitdown.” I got the
first all right—the mare with the white
mane and tail (flour-bag) had a foal —
but the rest had me stonkered. Dad
picked it in one. “She’s on the other
side of the creek, and this side of the
billabong, between the two.” Which
proved correct. The real wild abos
always repeated everything that was said
to them. As a boy looking for horses,
I rode into a small tribe all dressed in
their birthday suits. One second I
was riding along singing with the whole
world to myself; next second I was sur-
rounded. I reached for the nearest green
twig and held it aloft. The bucks laid
down their spears, two old men with
green twigs came up. I said “You been
see ’em Nantoe?” They gave it back
to me in what I realised was my own
childish voice, so I fell back on signs ; I
touched the twig with one finger and
gave the blackfellows’ point, not by finger
or hand, but by pouted lips and lifted
chin, the way I wanted to go. The old
men talked together, then called across
to the other side of the circle. Men,
women and pics fell back each side of
my pointed line of march. I kept the
green twig aloft until I dropped behind
a hill. I always claimed this was a
strange tribe; they weren’t black but the
color of an old penny. Dad said it was
ochre stain. To this day I still think
they were a tribe apart —the brownish
color was even all over, their faces
seemed to have a lighter bone structure,
and seemed shorter than the Darwin,
Pine Creek and Drifield people. I’ve
seen faces somewhat similar amongst the
River people at Mildura.
THE COCKLE-GATHERER
“So you’ve no’ tried cockles,” he said
And scrape went his scraper in the sand,
And the harvest wet from the ooze
He emptied into my hand.
Scrape, scrape, scrape went his scraper
And the cockles heaped under his arm
The shell may have crookit his leg
But it did his heart no harm.
“Just put them into a pan
And bring them up to the boil,”
He looked with a twinkle in his eye,
“They’re done then,” he said with a smile.
“It’s a pity ye hav’na a bucket^
For ye canna carry muckle in y’r hand.
It’s a few, ye ken, for a taste.”
And he scraped the pregnant sand.
Oh gaunt was this old grey man,
He limps, yet he’s straight as a post;
A shell may have crookit his leg
But it laid not his heart to waste.
The tide washed our prints from the sand,
But time is a thing apart;
Time only washes our prints,
But not the old man from my heart.
VICTORIA.
JOHN J. ALDERSON.


FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
df
Rain... .1 see it through my car windscreen,
falling in torrents and sending walkers to shelter. An
interlude to break the sequence of sunshine on city
and country.
And I think of the backlands, to which rain is the
supreme gift of Nature. I see again the plains on
which this blessing, often too sparingly, falls; the
watercourses marked as rivers in a map, but now mere
sandy strips ; stock pasturing close to what remains of
a diminishing water store, or nibbling over the withered
grass; drovers dry on a dusty road behind beasts
they urge on from bore to bore.
And then —the rain! The brown spell broken,
rivers risen again in muddy flood, dams and lagoons
filled with the promise of months; trees dripping and
drinking it in, the ground even now nurturing the
shoots that will turn the countryside to green and
fatten all creatures that live upon it.
This is the miracle of water on the land....
Northward again, and the rain is falling in a
tropical “wet.” Falling in sheets and registering by
feet in the gauges. Too prodigal, the gift of this
enclosing, pelting rain. It spreads the waterways in
flood, and when the flood subsides it leaves a humid
residue in which crop and herbage spring up
fantastically.....
As I look out upon this street scene I think of
the many times I’ve heard rain in the night in odd
corners of the world; on a canvas tent in war; flying
through rain storms or listening to its sound on the
iron roof of an Australian country home.
lam mindful of the worth—the staggering worth
—that one saturating cycle of rain means to the wealth
of this country. Tens of millions, taking into account
the value of stock saved in the breaking of a single
drought.
And this is my thought: Here, as free as the
winds that carry it on, is a gift as precious as any we
have. As precious, indeed, as the country itself, for
without the rains to water it the land would be barren,
bare and lifeless.
Here, from the Heavens, comes the nation’s life
blood —the source of our standards, our comforts, our
homes.
~~/V.
COMPANY REPORT
NEW BROKEN HILL
CONSOLIDATED
LOWER METAL PRICES AFFECT RESULTS
Mr. John R, Govett on Mine Development Costs
THE 17th annual general meeting of New Broken Hill Consolidated
Ltd. will be held on June 2S at 37 Dover Street, London, W.l.
The following are extracts from the
circulated statement of the chairman, Mr.
John R. Govett.
The profit for the year 1652 before
providing for taxation amounted to
£818,780, compared with £1,338,884 for
1951. This reduction of £520,104 re-
sults from lower prices having been
realised for lead, zinc and silver than in
the previous year and from an increase in
costs generally and particularly of wages.
The profit has been arrived at after
charging £251,684 for mine development,
as against £196,344 in 1951, and after
providing £245,600 for depreciation, as
against £178,000 in 1951.
The charge for taxation amounts to
£260,760, which compares with £719,860
for the previous year. This leaves a net
profit of £558,020, a reduction of
£61,004 on the result for 1951. Out of
this profit the board has decided to trans-
fer the sum of £400,000 to general
reserve, compared with £300,000 last
year. The board recommend a final
dividend of 9d. per share, making a total
distribution for the year of 1/6 per share.
This compares with 2/6 per share for
1951, but is the same as the distribution
for 1950. The surplus carried forward
is £241,836.
_ Capital expenditure was again a con-
siderable figure, £665,090 being spent
on mine development, including shaft-
sinking, during the year, and £678,083
on machinery, plant, buildings and equip-
ment, giving a total of £1,883,173 for
the year.
Production
Ore production from the company’s
leases in 1952 totalled 239,922 tods, com-
pared with 212,178 tons in 1951—making
a total since production first commenced
of just over a million tons. The tonnage
milled in 1952 amounted to 235,478 tons,
as against 211,608 tons in 1951.
In September last, with the completion
of the 2,600-h.p. skip winder on the
haulage shaft, the surface crushing plant,
crude ore conveyor, and No. 1 section of
the mill, the hoisting of ore through the
haulage shaft and milling in the company’s
own mill were commenced. The tonnage
so treated up to the close of the year was
45,110 tons, and was practically all from
stopes above No. 16 level. Pending com-
pletion of the service shaft, expected in
1954, the haulage shaft is required to
handle men and supplies into the mine and
and mullock out of the lower levels, and
haulage of ore has therefore to be con-
fined to one shift. This limits the tonnage
hauled to approximately 1,000 tons per
day, which is sufficient to maintain the
mill on a two-shift basis. All ore pro-
duction in excess of the one-shift capacity
of the haulage shaft will continue to be
hauled through the Zinc Corporation’s
main shaft and treated in their mill until
the service shaft is In operation. The
resale of ore to the Zinc Corporation in
replacement of the tonnage purchased by
the Company under the sale of ore
agreement has been deferred.
The expansion of ore reserves con-
tinues satisfactorily with an Inclusion of
a greater amount of the richer lead lode.
The total ore reserves as at 81st De-
cember, 1952, amounted to 2,400,000 tons,
assaying 10.6 p.c. lead, 2.60 z. silver, and
10.9 p.c. zinc. Development has been
concentrated on the opening up of the
lead lode ore bodies on No. 19 level on
plats, crosscuts, and ore passes in the
haulage and service shaft areas on the
Nos. 19 to 22 levels, and on the exca-
vation for the underground crusher
station.
Marked Improvement
in Efficiency
The year 1952 marks an important
stage towards the completion of the ten-
year programme commenced in 1945, for
developing and equipping the mine.
Hitherto use has been made of the Zinc
Corporation’s main shaft and concentrat-
ing mill to hoist and treat all the ore
produced from the company’s leases; to-
wards the close of the year under re-
view the hoisting of a substantial pro-
portion of the company’s ore through the
new haulage shaft and its subsequent
treatment in the company’s own mill were
commenced. There Is still, however, some
way to go before the original programme
can be regarded as completed. Whilst
we are behindhand on our original
schedule I feel the point now reached
in carrying the programme into effect can
be regarded as satisfactory.
Our original long term budget pro-
vided for an output in 1953 of 270,000
tons of ore. In the current year to date
underground efficiency has shown a marked
improvement, indicating that the policy
of providing the most up-to-date under-
ground mechanical equipment is being
justified to the advantage of the em-
ployees and the company; and subject to
any unforeseen circumstances beyond the
control of the management, we shall be
disappointed if the above tonnage esti-
mate for the year is not substantially
exceeded, with ore of approximately the
same grade as in 1952. This, together
with the indications that the rise in the
basic wage in Australia has been cheeked,
should stabilise if not reverse the upward
trend in costs with which we have been
faced since the development of the mine
commenced. Nevertheless, the sharp de-
cline in the prices for our products must
have a serious effect on our revenue. v
Problem of Rising Costs
In 1948 we had anticipated that the
total cost to completion of the 10-year
programme would be £5,100,000, includ-
ing expenditure of £1,565,000 up to the
end of that year. Throughout the whole
of the development period to date we
have, however, been faced with con-
stantly increasing costs of construction,
which in total have been very considerable.
Looking back to 1945, when we com-
menced the programme, and taking that
year as 100, the basic wage in 1952 was
206, lead bonus 530, and cost of stores
388. As a result we now estimate that
the total cost of completion will be
approximately £8,000,000, of which
£5,539,000 has been spent up to De-
cember 31, 1952. This has been financed
by the subscription of approximately
£3,000,000 by shareholders, and the
retention of profits, including provision
for depreciation, to the extent of
£2,348,000. The balance of expenditure
on shafts, buildings, plant, and equipment
is at present estimated at £1,200,000,
and further mine development to be met
out of capital funds during the next three
years may involve a like sum. Approxi-
mately £1,000,000 would normally be get
aside in that period for depreciation, thus
leaving a balance 'of requirements of
£1,400,000.
We remain confident that the mine
will be among the lowest cost producers
in the world, but, with the immediate
outlook for metal prices, it is not possible
to estimate now with any accuracy prob-
able future revenue, or indeed how much
we may be able to retain in the business
to meet the balance of capital expendi-
ture for the completion of our programme.
While it is hoped that this completion
may be achieved without having recourse
to further permanent financing, some addi-
tional finance of a temporary nature will
be required until we see some turn in the
trend of metal markets and prices once
again become more remunerative.
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Government’s Role
In the conflict of political and
economic theories of the pre-
sent day Australia is wasting a
lot of very valuable time and
energy. If the 40-hour week is
wrong, then it has been wrong
for over five years, and its cost
has been colossal. If the Wel-
fare State is wrong, then we have
been carrying an incubus for
nearly 10 years, and to a large
extent running round in eco-
nomic circles. Whether these
and other things are right or
wrong, there is no questioning
the fact that for a decade, at least
we have had a vastly increased
intrusion of Government con-
trols into the affairs of industry.
And the burden of taxation has
grown in a corresponding degree.
In Australia we have been, for
many years, indulging in
distracting political and economic
experiments. The people have
tended to fall for the spectacular
promises of politicians rather
than to be guided by the advice
of commonsense economists or
by the lessons of past experience.
They have been content to allow
the political exploitation of the
industrial wealth of the country
so long as they felt that they were
to get an immediate benefit at
the expense of the employer
or the “capitalist.” They
have let socialisation and
increased taxation go ahead in
double-harness so long as those
things advanced at the expense
of the thrifty minority rather
than at immediate cost to them-
selves.
Today, in Australia, the
tentacles of semi-Socialistic gov-
ernment, Federal and State, ex-
tend into many avenues of life
and industry. Governments
have become actual ultimate
controllers of many industries
built up by private enterprise.
This is particularly so in the case
of road transport. Carriers dare
hardly turn a wheel without a
permit from a State Government
department. And a multitude of
boards “regulate” nearly every
type of primary production.
It is generally acknowledged
that private enterprise cannot be
given a completely "open
slather” in the economy. Most
manufacturers desire tariff
protection; most rural pro-
ducers resent the imposition of
Customs duties, because they
add to the cost of imported
materials. There obviously has
to be an impartial referee in
arriving at tariff policy. That is
so, too, as regards control of
monopolies, as well as in decid-
ing whether weak industries
should be given assistance of
various kinds. And there needs
to be a supreme guide in the
matter of national finance, even
though that guide be restricted,
in peace-time, to directions of a
very general nature.
But in matters of detail Gov-
ernment interference is due for
wholesale abolition. With a few
obvious exceptions, industries
are best left to private enter-
prise, freely to compete with
each other, and to make as much
profit as they can under these
competitive conditions. As it is
today we have far too much
Government control, far too
much waste of money and man-
power in implementing these
controls and a rapidly deteriorat-
ing industrial position. And
that means a falling living
standard.
North Shore Gas
The £450,000 of 5 p.c. deben-
tures on offer by the North
Shore Gas Co., Sydney, has
been underwritten by lan Potter
and Co., Melbourne, and appli-
cations may be lodged with
members of Stock Exchanges
and with N.S.W. branches of
the Commercial Banking Co. of
Sydney. The issue has a currency
of five years, and offers 10s. per
cent, above the ruling rate on
long-term Government bonds.
The debentures are in multiples
of £lOO.
N.Z. Housing Costs
When Maorilanders have been
encouraged for many years to
look to the State to help them
put of their housing problems,
nothing is more natural than that
houses should be a political foot-
ball, with the Government
always more or less on the
defensive, whether it is Socialist
or capitalist. It’s always easier
to say how, where and in what
number houses should be built
than to get busy and build them,
and it’s easy to find fault with
Government policy today when
costs are at, or near, record level
and four out of every five
Maorilanders who want new
homes haven’t a hope of finan-
cing them by their own efforts.
The big trouble today is that
costs have risen beyond the
point where those with money to
lend on mortgage are prepared
to follow; they’re setting tighter
limits to forestall the risk of a
possible slump in values later
on.
Taking up the challenge lately,
the Government has called on
builders, architects and others to
join forces in a frontal attack
on costs to cut down the outlay
on the average house from £3OOO
to £2500. The weakness is that
tradesmen are not a party to this
effort; instead, they’re looking
for a fat increase in wages, which
would force costs still higher.
While the outcome is in doubt,
and the general uptrend in costs
makes the odds unfavorable, the
banks have been called on to
come to the rescue of the
parched mortgage market by
lending up to £3500 for five-year
terms on houses and freehold
sites by what amounts to con-
verting overdraft funds for
capital investment. This isn’t
the kind of proposition that’s
likely to appeal to the banks,
and inflationary aspects don’t
make it attractive as a national
effort to reduce costs. Altogether,
the outlook for housing is ex-
tremely mixed, and the chances
of building cheaper houses
while other construction and
industrial costs are advancing
must be poor.
The best line of action is to
speed-up the rate at which
skilled tradesmen are being
brought in from Britain and
Europe, and in this way over-
come the labor bottleneck, which
is the main obstacle to progress.
Headway is being made by re-
cruiting men on the other side
of the world for major construc-
tion jobs like those of N.Z.
Forest Products, at Kinleith, and
the Tasman Pulp and Paper Co.,
which should put an end to the
shortage in time, but this doesn’t
show much promise of turning
the tide this year. However,
with Australia’s experience in
mind, N.Z. is chary about push-
ing immigration much faster.
Steady and continuous absorp-
tion might prove to be the
soundest course in the long run.
"Lolly-water" Flood
Since the advent of Coca-
Cola, Pepsi-Cola, Canada
Dry and other new soft-drink
lines on the Australian market
there has been a surplus of
“lolly-water,” especially in
the eastern States. Many of
the old-established concerns
have re-equipped with new
manufacturing and bottling
machinery, and their potential
has now greatly increased.
Altogether, competition
among cordial - makers has
developed a sharp edge, and
the fact should be noted by
investors in soft-drink shares.
Mines and Shares
Peko (Tennant Creek) Gold
Mine will have an issue of
2,800,000 2s. 6d. shares when
all the new scrip is allotted.
It is a large number of shares
to spread future dividends
over, but the market fancies
the look of prospects, pay-
ing 3s. 3d. for the old shares.
Other large issues are New
Guinea Goldfields (4,472,332
of 4s. 3d. each). Great Wes-
tern Consolidated (3,536,000
of 10s. each), Wellington
Alluvials (2,500,000 of 25.),
Western Mining Corp.
(2,794,350 of 55.), King Island
Scheelite (2,000,000 of 55.),
Rye Park Scheelite (5,000,000
paid to Is.), Tungsten Con-
solidated (2,000,000 half
paid to 25., the rest just
issued), and Oil Search
(5,821,390 of ss. each).


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO EDNA GRACE COOK formerly of
Broken HiII—TAKE NOTICE that
GORDON ALEXANDER COOK has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 825 of 1953
on the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 17th
August 1953 and a copy of the Petition
may be obtained free of charge from
MESSIEURS JOHN R. EDWARDS, SON
& BROWN. Solicitors. 281 Argent Street,
Broken Hill. —J. DOU6HAN, Registrar.
Financial Advice
There is no need for you, as a customer of
the Bank, to feel that you have to grapple
with financial problems unaided.
By adopting the practice of regularly review-
ing your financial affairs with your A.N.Z. Bank
Manager, you can be assisted to maintain your
finances in a healthy condition and to make
sound plans for the future.
This A.N.Z. Bank service is freely available to
you, whether your resources are large or small.
A-N-Z
I***l
w
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia The Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
(Established 1835) (Established 1837)
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and New
Zealand, in Fiji, and in London. Agents throughout the world.
THE NORTH SHORE
GAS COMPANY LIMITED
( Incorporated in New South Wales)
Registered Office: MILLER & BLUE STREETS, NORTH SYDNEY
Issue at par (£100)
of £450,000 3&/0
Registered Mortgage Debentures
CURRENCY approximately 5 YEARS REPAYABLE 30th JUNE, I9SB
full prospectus and application forms obtainable from
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
and MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES.
SUBSCRIPTION LISTS NOW OPEN
The Directors will proceed to daily allotment of the debentures as from
the opening date of the Issue. Interest will accrue as from allotment
date on amounts from time to time paid up on the debentures.
Applications will be received only on one of the application forms referred to and endorsed upon a printed
copy of the full Prospectus and may be lodged either at the principal office in Sydney of The Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney Limited, or through branches of that Bank in New South Wales or Members
of Stock Exchanges.
DIRECTORS:
SIR JOHN HENRY BUTTERS, M.hnst.C.E., M.I.E. (Aust.), Cleveland Street, Wahroonga, Civil
Engineer, Chairman; ARNOLD HOWARD SMEDLEY, 62 Wyong Road. Mosman, Company
Director- JAMES DAVID MacDONALD, 54 Moruben Road, Mosman, Company Director;
HENRY JOHN LUDOWICI, 274 Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, Company Director;
ALEXANDER JOHN AMBROSE, A.M.I.Chem.E., 59 Stuart Street, Manly. Gas Engineer.
TRUSTEES FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS:
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED), 33-39 Hunter Street. Sydney,
UNDERWRITING BROKERS:
lAN POTTER & CO., 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, Members of The Stock Exchange of
Melbourne.
SECURITY FOR THE ISSUE;
The Debentures are secured by a Trust Deed under which the Company’s freehold and leasehold
premises together with all buildings fixed plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings thereon are charged
by way of fixed security to be supported by registered mortgage and the Company s other assets
are charged by way of floating security both such securities being subject to the fixed and floating
securities securing prior debentures amounting to £1,200,000.
(a)
STATUTORY INFORMATION
The minimum amount which in the opinion of the Directors must be raised by the issue of the
debentures now offered for subscription in order to provide the sums required to be provided
in respect of each of the following matters is set out hereunder: —
(i) The purchase price of any property purchased or to be purchased
which is to be defrayed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of
the issue is Nil, but the estimated expenditure necessary for
extensions and improvements to buildings and additions to plant,
machinery and equipment and the expansion of the business carried ___
on by the company is £436,000
(ii) Preliminary expenses payable by the company—Nil. . _
Expenses of the issue (including underwriting commission and
brokerage amounting to £9OOO payable to the Underwriters in
consideration of their agreeing to procure subscriptions for or to
subscribe for debentures of the issue) are estimated to amount to £14,000
(iii) Repayment of any moneys borrowed by the company in respect of
any of the foregoing matters—Nil. But pending the expenditure of
the sum of £436,000 referred to in sub-paragraph (i) hereof, part
thereof will from time to time be used in reducing bank overdraft.
(iv) Additional working capital—Nil. _____
£450,000
(b) No amount is to be provided in respect of the matters aforesaid otherwise than out of the
proceeds of the issue.
The requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act 1936 of the State of New South Wales have not been
fully complied with in this newspaper advertisement of the full Prospectus which is dated the Ist day of
June 1953 and a copy of which has been pled for registration with the Registrar-General of the State of
New South Wales.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Very soon demolition-gangs
will start pulling London down.
That is, of course, the ingenious
and tremendously strong fasade
that has been superimposed upon
such workaday thoroughfares as
Whitehall, Piccadilly, Oxford-
and Regent-streets and upon
traffic-heavy roundabouts like
Parliament - square, Trafalgar -
square, Hyd6 Park Corner and
Marble Arch.
For several months workmen
had been erecting 600 miles of
tubular scaffolding and laying
70 miles of wooden seats on
Ministry-of-Works’ contracts
alone. (This does not take into
account the separate enterprise
of the Westminster and Maryle-
bone councils and of the con-
siderable number of private
occupiers along the route.) The
daily routine of business and
shopping suffered only minor
hindrances, and those were
largely due to the so-called
crush-barriers that were com-
paratively late to appear.
Not only did the project show
planning at its quiet and effi-
cient best, but surely no im-
promptu operation was ever
before undertaken on such a big
scale, even in war-time. After
all. Mulberry Harbor was built
for more than a single day.
A minor grumble has also
been dispelled. Many people,
themselves good and loyal citi-
zens, felt that preparations be-
gan too soon, that the Corona-
tion needed no pretentious
build-up, and that it were better
for the celebrations to be spon-
taneous rather than stage-
managed. But Mr. David
Eccles, Minister of Works, had
last word. There was no build-
up. Quite apart from the dis-
location of a last-minute
scamper, it actually proved
cheaper to employ a small force
over a longer period. '
The route, it is estimated, took
some 2,000,000 persons. Those
who were turned back at the
gates and those who stayed at
home had a better insight into
the ceremony and processions
than many who were on the
spot. Never before has a State
occasion been made available to
the bulk of the populace in such
comprehensive intimacy. Tele-
vision is now within the reach
of about 90 per cent, of the
population of Great Britain.
That is not to say that this pro-
portion regularly sees the pro-
grammes, for all have not sets.
But on Coronation Day there
was a party in every home that
owned one. For the first time
in history, all but one in ten or
so saw a monarch crowned.
Moreover, viewers in France,
Holland and Western Germany
shared the picture; and, thanks
to pell-mell aerial dispatch,
Canadian and U.S. networks
cast a telefilm in the early hours
of the next morning.
For all our matter-of-fact
acceptance of a newish toy,
there is still magic in the realisa-
tion that many millions of
people, by the mere turn of a
switch, were witnesses at the
Coronation of a British Queen.
Henry VIII and Nero
For the close of a most re-
warding season the Old Vic. has
struck a patriotic chord. Tyrone
Guthrie’s production of “Henry
VIII” has ingeniously trans-
lated Tudor harmonies and dis-
sonances into a Coronation tone-
poem that pays eloquent tribute
both to the personal visit of our
Queen and her Consort to that
theatre and to the current cele-
brations.
Heaven, from thy endless goodness,
send prosperous life, long, and ever
happy, to the high and mighty
princess of England, Elizabeth.
This prayer, offered by Garter
at Cranmer’s baptism of the
infant princess, is the natural
and stirring climax to an even-
ing’s pageantry.
A large star-studded cast is
not only vivid in costume and
agile in movement but also con-
trives to bring definition to the
many characters. The best per-
formance is the Cardinal Wolsey
of Alexander Knox. Sly, quick-
witted and hortatory, he is yet
the cad with a stuff upper lip
and inborn humility. Leo
Genn’s Buckingham is forth-
right and sincere* —a noble-
minded misfit. Gwen Ffrang-
con-Davies’s Katharine is a
maundering sobersides who, per-
haps, is too sorry for herself to
excite the pity of others; but
her loss of favor does at least
make way for the young Eliza-
beth. Anne Bullen (Jeanette
Sterke) is a middle-aged man’s
fancy, who is clearly fated to
turn her husband into either a
cuckold or an avenger. There
is certainly nothing Italianate
about Paul Rogers’s Henry, He
is bluff, coarse, fleshy and en-
gagingly bad-tempered; but he
might with advantage be more
commanding and less nasal.
Such gangsterish behavior be-
lies a King who could outplay
his courtiers in the field, the
council-chamber and the music-
room.
Mr. Guthrie’s production is
less fussy than usual, which
means that his players are run-
ning, bobbing and, twisting for
only about one-half of the time.
But these distracting idiosyn-
crasies are mercifully absorbed
in the pageantry.
In marked contrast, classical
tragedy, with its formal severity,
abnegating simplicity and intel-
lectual sublimation, is part of
the fare at the St. James’s
Theatre, where Laurence Olivier
is presenting the Comedie Fran-
gaise.
Racine’s “Britannicus,” which
deals with the episode in Nero’s
life that began his evil decline,
seems at first to be stiffed and
wooden. But the last two acts
are potent and, in the true sense,
dreadful. The actors are over-
shadowed by pillars, plinths and
an enormous statue of a sage in
mental travail. They are also
deprived of properties, comic
relief and “business.” All that
they have left is their own art,
which must be impeccable or
fail them utterly. Art triumphs.
Once the conventions have been
accepted and the march of
tragedy established the sheer
power of the acting at once in-
spires and exhilarates. A pre-
dominantly English audience was
still asking for more after six
curtain-calls.
Visitors’ Choice
Only a month ago the West
End was theatrically comatose.
Now it is virile and compelling.
Managements have not allowed
painful memories of empty
houses during periods of
national festivity to stint pro-
duction costs.
Graham Greene’s first play,
“The Living Room” (Wynd-
ham’s), is the season’s biggest
sensation. The young actress
Dorothy Tutin has soared to
stardom as an errant lover who
comes to a bad end. Religiosity,
rather than religion, is the leit-
motiv, and is substantially but-
tressed by an amalgam of vice,
degradation, psychosis and
squalor. The author is said to
be much vexed that his recurrent
stage-direction, the sound of the
flushing of a lavatory cistern,
was disallowed by the Lord
Chamberlain, but the play, it
appears, can well withstand this
deprivation.
A revival of “The Apple
Cart” (Haymarket), with Noel
Coward in the unaccustomed
robes of King Magnus, is doing
well. From all accounts Em-
peror Noel is indeed very much
at home in his new Shavian
domain. If his characteristic
hollow - voiced understatement
chortles incongruously through
the rolling periods it also gives
sparkle to the satire.
“The Seven-year Itch” (Ald-
wych) is a Broadway importa-
tion secured only after patient
and tricky negotiation. The
indelicate title signifies the urge
of a well-married man to sow
just one wild oat It is virtually
a one-mamshow in which Brian
Reece, as the hesitant trifler,
has visible daydreams and loud
promptings of conscience in a
slight but well-contrived fantasy
of modern instances. His light
touch and the sincerity of all the
players manage to lift the play
above smoking-concert level.
Best among the rest of the
new productions are Otway’s
“Venice Preserv’d” (Lyric,
Hammersmith) as a finale to the
Gielgud season ; a revival of the
Farjeons’ gentle Victorian pas-
tiche, “The Two Bouquets” (St.
Martin’s); an intimate revue,
“Airs on a Shoestring” (Royal
Court, Chelsea); and yet another
intimate revue, “High Spirits,”
which has been magnified to fill
the vast auditorium of the Lon-
don Hippodrome. Here Aus-
tralian Cyril Ritchard is richly
absurd and devastating in his
take-offs.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland,
Are you leaving Your Executor a 'legacy' of trouble?
One Executor, however able, cannot possibly acquire in
a lifetime the specialised knowledge of a group of experts
that is available permanently from the Union Trustee
Company,
Many people appoint the Union Trustee Company as
sole Executor of their Wills. You, too, can do so with
complete confidence. But should you wish to combine
the Company’s wide experience and extensive knowledge
with the services of a relative or friend, you can
appoint the Union Trustee as co-Executor with that
person.
Why not take advantage of Union Trustee’s practical
experience in the administration of all types of
Estates? Service is comprehensive; charges are moderate.
Call, without obligation, for a confidential discussion with one of
the Company’s senior officers. Or, if you prefer, write or telephone
for a copy of the free booklet, “Important Facts Concernirtig Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 188 S
33S COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
UTU
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Ordinary Department.
Dec.. Income. Clakns. pews. W Qff! n Funds.
’46.16,438,118 7.999,980 2,152,283 48 261 fi 9R7 koa
’47 17 731,409 7.478,081 1,855,824 1i1’,608 till’mt
48.19,245,843 7,983,274 1,891,804 83 699 9*2B6*f>6fi
n « urp US Sa^e assets .. , . iio’ccn
50.22.982,991 9,181,103 2,301,274 94,193 11.40M21
Surpius sale assets .. .. aa nas
51.26,493,393 9,119,243 3,049,319 160,080 13,164*,751
Surplus sale assets .. .. si saa
52 ’ 2 |frn?.’ 83 ° 1 ? ,349 > 872 3.363,399 96,730 t4,499*,829
surplus sale assets .. .. , _ 27 481
Industrial Department.
Dec, Income. Claims, pens*,, s££
jf/r'r’oon’^ 43 2,245,238 1,152,203 _j8,826 1 725 648
47.5,332,978 2,471,039 1,064,886 16 845 1 780 208
•ao’f’onn’n 79 2 > 638 > 262 1,034,426 15,788 1,*965*403
49.5,809,712 3,287,754 619,937 10,312 1,991*709
surplus sale assets .. .. ot \no
50.6,039,972 2,947,861 543,628 6,352 2,542!131
Surplus sale assets .. .. . 14
51.6,319,352 2,830,553 698,892 16,526 2,773*,381
Surplus sale assets .. .. 17 <h U
52.6 5&2 718 2,651.234 1.437.396 8.820 2.495:268
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 5,861
With an income of £34.9-odd million
and assets totalling over £255 million
the 103-year-old A.M.P., second-biggest
mutual life office in the British Com-
monwealth, continues to move from
strength to strength. About 75 pc of
its ordinary and 87 p.c. of its industrial
contracts are written in Australia, and
the balance mainly in New Zealand and
the U.K. And the latest accounts
present a pleasing picture in all matters
upon which soundness and progress
depend.
The features are (1) record amount
of new business written, (2) satisfactory
growth of surplus for division among
policyholders—there are no shareholders,
(3) maintenance of bonus rates, (4)
strong actuarial and other reserves, (5)
tight hold updn controllable outgoings,
(6) improvement in the net rate of interest
earned, and (7) an investment policy
which augurs well for the future of
interest earnings—one of the chief
sources of bonuses to policyholders—
and for the welfare Of the individual
and productive development of the
economy,
.The total amount of new business
written was £108,705,765 (up £7,313,114),
of which about 90 p.c. was ordinary
and the balance industrial:
Ordinary— 1946. 1951. 1952.
Policies issued 84,622 '94,277 96,414
Assuring .. £48,207,529 £92,573,309 £97,670,972
Av. per policy £570 £982 £lOlB
Industrial —
Policies issued 129,874 77,400 81,230
Assuring ..£10.224,001 £8,819,342 £11,034.793
Av. per policy £79 £ll4 £136
Behind the extraordinary growth in
volume of new business —it has more
than doubled in the last half-dozen years
—lie widening recognition of the value of
life-cover as a means to both profitable
saving and security, and the rapid growth
of assurance in the field of industrial
superannuation. Inflation and growth of
population have helped the figures along,
too.
In the two departments combined the
co. gathered an income of £34,902,548,
or £3,089,803 more than for the previous
year—premiums, etc., totalled £26,273,416
(up £2,230,047) and interest, rents, etc.,
£8,629,132 (up £859,756). That was
after deducting income and land taxes
(£631,713, down £42,117). There was
also a surplus of £33,332 on realisation
of assets, notwithstanding the general
fall in the market-value of securities.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes., including £277,988 sent to staff
funds, etc., and writing £105,550 off the
book-value of premises and other assets,
£17,028,429 was added to the assurance
funds, raising them to £244,175,457. In
addition there were contingency reserves
totalling £5,000,000, and special tax pro-
vision of £1,100,000, which is in excess
of current requirements.
Despite the continued rise in wage-
rates, exes, in the ordinary branch were
reduced to 17.94 p.c. of net premiums as
against 18.25 p.c. in 1951. In the indus-
trial department the ratios were 28.06
p.c. and 25.94 p.c. respectively.
In the ordinary branch the surplus
available for distribution (excess of
assurance fund over liabilities under
policies) was £5,223,629 (up £447,197);
. , , 1951. 1952.
Assurance funds .. £187,436,777 £201,964,087
Actuarial liability .. 182,660,345 196,740,458
r>' Surjilus .. .. £4,776,432 £5,223,629
Bonus policyholders .. 4,707,051 5,153,640
Keserye interim bonuses 40,000 40 000
Carried forward .. .. 29,381 29,989
The £5,153,640 distributed provided rever-
sionary bonuses of slightly more than
£8,850,000, at the same unsurpassed rates
as for the previous year.
The net effective rate of interest earned
on the assurance funds (after deducting
taxes) was 2s. 4d. stronger at £3 13s. Bd.
p.c. The margin between this figure and
the stringent 2\ p.c. rate at which the
actuary values liabilities under policies is
more than is usually considered adequate
for maintenance of existing reversionary
bonus rates. And the recent strength-
ening of interest-rates in the gilt-edged
and other sections of the market, together
with promise of a little relief from the
burden of taxation and the composition
of the investment portfolio, augur well
for further improvement in the net rate
earned by the co.
Next table shows how the large life
and other funds, etc., are employed;
1951. 1952.
~ -r ... £ P-C. £ p.C.
Govt, secuntiesf 142,970,007 59.8 140,939,431 55.1
Mortgages .. 62,758,718 26.2 76,058,447 29.7
Loans policies .. 11,146,197 4.7 12,512,616 4.9
Shares and
debentures ~ 15,149,394 6.3 17,455,545 6.8
Debtors, etc-t .. 3.481.569 1.3 3,705,907 1.4
Cash .. .. 55,911 0.2 55,146 0.2
Premises, etc. ~ 3,619,622 1.5 4,900,522 1.9
Total assets .. 239,181,418 255,627,614
Liabilities* .. 5,666,096 6,186,499
Net assets .. 233,515,322 249,441,115
t Includes local and semi-government securities.
| Mainly accrued interest and outstanding premiums.
* Other than liabilities under policies.
Last term £13,299,729 was added to
mortgages, £2,306,151 to shares and
debentures, £1,366,419 to loans on
policies and £1,280,900 to office premises
and other freeholds and leaseholds, etc.
The latter include the society’s big land-
development project, Coonalpyn Downs
(S. Aust.). Here good progress is being
made in conversion of deficient soil into
fertile grazing country, which is to be
subdivided and leased as the improved
areas become available. The project is
not yet revenue-producing. Since the
bulk of the co.’s assets consists of redeem-
able securities, which, when they mature,
will equal or exceed their book-value,
too much notice need not be paid to
recent fluctuations in market-values.
General Industries, Ltd.
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1942 111,386 20.851 12£p.c,= 79.646 10,889 255,410
1943 99,505 20,851'10 „ „ 63,717 14,937 270,348
1944 90,239 20,851 10 „ „ 63,717 5,671 276,019
1945 95,560 20,851 10 „ „ 63,717 11,992 288,011
1946 95,933 20,851 10 „ „ 63,717 11,365 299,376
1947 110,496 20,850 10 „ „ 63,717 25,929 325,305
From tax provision, £46,000 .. .. 371,305
1948 121,146 20,850 10 p.c.= 63,717 36,579 407,884
Share premiums, £156,389 .. .. 564,273
From tax provision, £21,500 .. ..585,773
1949 138,778 20,851 10 p.c.= 71,834 46,093 631,866
1950 168,912 20,851 10 „ „ 78,755 69,306 701,172
Reserves capitalised, £262,514 .. ..4^8,658
1951 208,850 20,851 10 p.c.=105,005 82,494 521,152
Reserves capitalised, £210,011 ~ ..811,141
Assets revalued, £228,753 .. .. 539,894
To special reserve, £198,753 .. .. 341,141
1952 274,352 20,851 10p.c.=128,500 125,001 466,142
Depreciation written back, £42,380 .. 508,522
1953 239,080 20,851 10p.c.=150,921 67,308 575,830
The fortunes of this big holding co. and
its operating subsidiaries (Metiers, Ltd.,
Sydney, and Metiers K.F.B. Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne) are normally those of the
building trade. The subsidiaries turn out
a variety of stoves, baths, gas-heaters,
builders’ hardware, enamel goods, radia-
tors and other electrical appliances, from
factories at Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide
and Perth. And there is a small associ-
ate, Metiers (N.Z.), Ltd., paid capital
£64,937, on the other side of the Tasman.
During the post-war boom, which was
stimulated by a back-log of war-time
demand, the story has been one of all-
round expansion, held in check by short-
ages of materials and skilled labor, etc.,
which have now largely passed into the
background. And shareholders have
fared better than the steady 10 p.c. to
the ords. since 1943 would suggest. To
help finance the substantial additions to
premises and plant since 1948, those on
the register put up £773,021 of fresh
cash-paid capital, which brought with it
£156,389 of share premiums, and received
£472,529 in bonus-scrip. The latter,
which came from reserves created by
writing-up the book-value of assets in
the operating cos., restored the £319,077
of ord. capital jettisoned, in 1934, with
£153,452 to boot. Last new issue was
498,011 £1 ords. at par in October,
1952. It lifted paid capital to £2,180,591,
of which £297,874 carries a fixed
cumulative 7 p.c. At the moment there
is nothing to suggest that shareholders
are likely to be asked for more, or that
anything better than a 10 p.c. div. need
be looked for.
The number of houses completed in
the Commonwealth during 1952 was
79,160, up 7192; but fewer buildings
were under construction when the year
ended than when it began. The board
reports “some contraction in trade,” with
an improvement in sales since the close
of accounts. The slip of £35,272 in net
earnings was due largely to the growth
in operating costs, following wage in-
creases. The £239,080 of profit claimed
—it was written after making unspecified
provisions for depreciation and taxation
—was enough to pay the prefs. their
£20,851 and show 14.4 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 19.7, 17.8, 18.8
and 16.4 p.c. back to 1949. So nothing
had to be strained to repeat the 10 p.c.
div. The £67,308 that remained, together
with £42,380 transferred from the de-
preciation reserve (deducted from the
book-value of fixed assets in the pub-
lished accounts), lifted the visible lay-by
to £575,830.
Finances are comfortable:
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
1950. 1951. 1952. 1953.
£ £ £ £>
Paid capital 1,085,415 1,347,928 1,682,580 2,180,591
Creditors .. 177,602 240,440 821,762 248,708
Tax reserve 318,875 425,828 718,156 720,774
Staff fund .. 30,000 33,005 50,000 50,000
Pinal div... 49i803 62,928 75,922 92,111
Freeholds .. 436,891 513,585 647,517 835,222
Plant .. 560,598 580,148 651,209 835,278
Stocks .. 801,240 1,022,100 1,444,730 1,686,638
Book debts 418,777 488,231 542,554 475,699
Shares other
cos. .. 24,630 24,630 24,630 24.630
Cash , . 115,731 2,588 3,922 10,552
The £498,011 of fresh share capital,
together with a contraction of £66,855
in book-debts, enabled the co. to carry an
extra £241,908 of stocks, add £371,769
net to fixed assets and clip £73,054 off
the amount coming to sundry creditors.
The recent improvement in turnover,
steadier trend of wage-rates and
promise of a little relief from
taxation augur well for maintenance of
the 10 p.c. div. The price of the f.-p.
£1 ords., which fell from 395. 9d. a year
ago to 31s. 9d. at the end of April last,
strengthened to 345. 3d. last week. The
return at 345. 3d. is 5.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
distribution. The prefs. at 245. 3d. also
yield 5.8 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is £9 ss. prefs. and 265. 2d. ords.
Waters Holdings, Ltd.
Waters Trading Co., Ltd.
Feb. 28, Profit, / Dividends— : Reserves.
£ £ £
1948 . . 34,413 15 p.c. = 17,556 77,728
To staff assurance, £5OOO .. 98,492
1949 .. 49,475 17i p.c. = 21,211 103,492
To staff asurance, £5OOO .. 98,492
From assets revaluation, £32,706 131,198
1950 .. 86,596 17£ p.c. = 21,211 196,584
Reserves capitalised, £32,665.. 163,919
1951 . . 73,227 p.c. = 26,111 211,085
From assets revaluation, £14,000 225,085
Waters Holdings, Ltd.,
and Subsidiary.
March 31, Deficit.
To share capital, £461,610 236,575
Preliminary exes., £3296 .. 239,871
Loss sale assets, £3411 .. 243,282
1952 .. 72,232 6 p.c. = 36,930 207,980
To staff fund, £2500 .. .. * ...
1953 .. 79,356 6 p.c. = 36,930 j
It has been an extraordinary and verj
profitable development., The operating
subsidiary took over, in 1929, the busines;
founded by C. S. Waters at the beginning
of this century, and continued to operate
as an Eastern produce merchant, millei
of rice, peas, barley and grinder ol
spice, etc., and also developed a trade
in coir mats and rugs and in blinds and
the export of Australian produce. The
public became interested in 1938, and for
the 14 years to 1951 divs. averaged
13| p.c. Over the same period paid
capital climbed from £96,200 to £153,870
—£32,665 of the difference was bonus-
scrip—and reserves advanced from
£26,780 to £211,035.
Net earnings were equal to 49 p.c.
on average capital for the 1951
term, compared with 71.4, 40.7, 29.4 and
19.4 p.c. back to 1947. A couple ol
years ago two new rice-milling cos.—
Whitton Rice Milling Pty., and Echuca
Rice Milling Pty.—were set-up in con-
junction with other interests to handle
the expanding paddy-rice crops in the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation and Murray
River valley areas respectively, and are
now giving a very good account of them-
selves. Another co.. Northern Develop-
ments Pty., in which Waters’ is also sub-
stantially interested, was recently formed
to experiment in rice-growing in the
Kimberley area (W.A.) and over the
border in the Northern Territory.
Meanwhile, in November, 1951, Waters
Holdings, Ltd., was formed. It bought
all the 153,870 f.-p. £1 shares in Waters
Trading Co, (now a wholly-owned sub-
sidiary) for £615,480,- paying in its own
f.-p. £1 shares. The price exceeded the
book-value of net tangibles acquired by
£210,000, and the deal was equivalent
to a three-for-one bonus share-issue to
those on the trading cd.’s register. The
rate of dividend was lowered from 17j
p.c. to 6 p.c.; but the 6 p.c. is equal
to 24 p.c, on the trading co.’s capital.
At the beginning of last term the co.
was carrying a big load of stocks and
book-debts, and was leaning heavily upon
outsiders. Despite trade and price trends,
stocks were reduced by £374,951 and
book-debts by £184,587 without mishap,
and £544,316 was slashed off the outside
debt, thus bringing the whole financial
structure into better balance.
After allowing £60,000 (same as
previous year) for taxation and
£4851 (up £3378) for depreciation,
the net result was £7124 stronger
at £79,356, equal to 12.8 p.c. on
capital as against 11.7 p.c, for previous
term. The 6 p.c. div. called for £36,930,
£2500 was sent to the staff fund, and the
£39,926 (50.3 p.c. of the year’s profit)
that remained reduced the amount of
capital unrepresented by tangibles in the
books to £168,054.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1950. 1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital.. £121,205 £153,870 £615,487 £615,487
Creditors, etc. 366,948 499,056 ? 851,438 807,122
Staff fund .. 15,000 15,000 J
Pinal div. .. 12,121 15,387 18,465 18,465
Freeholds .. 110,888 132,310 193,698 234,891
Plant, etc. .. 42,284 48,818 60,217 74,891
Shareholdings 19,658 34,807 34,807
Stock . . 319,747 431,255 668,969 294,018
Book debts . . 131,830 168,212 818,996 134,409
Cash and bonds 35,108 94,194 722 3
Intangibles .. 210,000 210,000
The year’s net additions of £41,193 to
freeholds and £14,674 to plant, etc.,


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents ana
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Professional Engagements
Emperor Gold Mining Co.
Ltd.,
VATUKOUUA, FIJI, has vacancies
for the following positions: —
CHIEF SURVEYOR
ASST. SURVEYOR
GEOLOGIST (Junior)
CHIEF RESEARCH CHEMIST
ASST. RESEARCH CHEMIST
ASS AYER
UNDERGROUND SHIFT BOSSES
< 3 >
All applications must be in writing
and accompanied by copies of testi-
monials, stating qualifications ana
whether married or single.
Liberal salaries will be paid to suc-
cessful applicants, according to ex-
perience, plus cost-of-living allow-
ance.
The mine is situated in a healthy
part of the Colony of Fiji, and the
Company provides many types of
amenities. Modern accommodation
available at low rentals.
Applications to—
COOK, TOMLINS & MIRAMS,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Now Open
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
£2,000,000
LOAN
-E4«l5 # 0% per annum
Issued at par for 7, 12 or 25 years
THE PREMIER N.S.W. SECURITY
Your money will be safely and profitably invested for 7, 12,
or 25 years at the full rate of 4| per cent. —the highest offered
by the Sydney Water Board in 22 years.
Subscriptions are free of exchange, and may be paid by
instalments. Minimum subscription, £5O. Your interest can
be credited half-yearly, free of exchange, to your bank account.
GUARANTEED BY THE N.S.W. GOVERNMENT
An Authorised Trustee Investment in
New South Woles, Queensland and Tasmania
HOW TO INVEST
Apply tomorrow at any branch of the Commonwealth Bank,
the Sydney Water Board, or through a Stockbroker. Ask for
a Prospectus and application form.
Loan No. 89 is underwritten by J. B. Were & Son., and will close
on or before 27th June, 1953.
PRODUCTION ENGINEER FOR
STRUCTURAL STEELWORKS
Applications are invited for the above position in “ Brisbane
Steel Fabricating Works. Applicants must be thoroug y
experienced in;— ,
(1) The requirements and layout of plant and machinery ana
sequence of operations of production of both welded a
• riveted structural steel. . v. v
(2) Preparation of workshop details from drawings submitted Y
(3) Receiving 8 customer’s instructions and preparing and submitting
quotations from drawings submitted by them.
Salary will be commensurate with the apphcan£s ability an
experience. Applications should be addressed m writing
No. 1078 N, G.P.0., BRISBANE, Q.
RUPTURED?
The modern RIGIFLEX BELT, relieving
hernia region by supporting the interna l organs
away front the hernia , prevents the spreading of the rupture.
A feeling of fitness and complete freedom entirely replaces
the rigid local pressure exercised by trusses.
L \m
Write today
for Free
illustrated
booklet.
Manufactured and Distributed by
Rigiflex Dept., J. ROUSSEL, of Pans PTY. LTD.,
84 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l. Tel.; FA8357
SYDNEY AGENTS: W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO. LTD.
COMPANY REPORT
THE CONSOLIDATED
ZINC CORPORATION
CHANGED PRICE LEVELS AFFECT RESULTS
Mr. John R. Govett on Government Policy
si
London, W.l.
The following are extracts from the
circulated statement of the chairman,
Mr. John R. Govett:
The trading balance for the year shows
a severe decline compared with la&i.
and reflects mainly the fall in the price
of lead and zinc. As a result
before taxation amounts to ’
compared with £7,031,874 for 1951,
decrease of £4.073.115. after charging
£769.533 for depreciation, compared
with £701.318 in 1951. Taxation on
profits for the year is £1,215*734, com-
pared with £4,483.113 in 1951. and the
net profit for 1952 amounts to £1,671,150,
compared with £2.404,708, a reduction of
£733,558. We are recommending a nnai
dividend of 2/- a share, which will give a
total distribution of 3/- a share. Ihis
compares with dividends totalling 3/- a
share, plus a bonus of 1/- a share, for
1951. In all, the total sum retained by
the group out of revenue and capital
profits for the year amounts to
£1,308,366, which compares with
£1,747,302 in 1951.
Capital expenditure during the year
on buildings, plant, machinery, and
equipment amounted to £1,773,550, of
which £881,528 related to the smelting
and other plants of Imperial Smelting
Corporation Limited in the United King -
dom. In addition there were capital com-
mitments outstanding at December 31,
1952, amounting to £2,305,000, in which
is included approximately £1 million for
new acid and superphosphate plant to
be erected by Sulphide Corporation Pty.
Ltd. at Cockle Creek, New South Wales.
During the last quarter of the year, as
soon as it appeared that there might be
a sustained change in the price levels for
lead and zinc, and therefore in the nnan-
-1 cial outlook for the group, a comprehen-
sive review was made of all capital pro-
jects included in the present programme,
and also of all capital commitments out-
standing. Wherever justified, capital
expenditure on current projects is being
curtailed, and authority to proceed with
new projects is being given only where
there is real necessity or where the ex-
pected economic benefit to be derived from
the expenditure is exceptional.
MARKETS AND PRICES
The year 1952 was one of disillusion-
ment and disappointment to lead/zinc
producers. Scarcely had the exhortations
of both U.S. and U.K. Government to in-
crease production become less intense
than high prices and restrictions of use
began to affect consumption. Current
production was already in excess of cur-
rent requirements at the time when the
U.K. Government decided to return these
metals to private trading. This step pre-
sented a number of difficult problems,
particularly as it involved the question ot
Government stock disposal. Unhappily
it would seem that the measures to solve
these problems were not as well contrived
as they might have been. The price of
lead, which in the U.K. was £l3l on Die
30th September. 1952, fell rapidly on the
open market, until it reached £73/5/- on
April 23, 1953. In the case of zinc a
similar picture can be shown: the price
on December 31, prior to the opening of
the market, was £llO, and a „TL-o
£63/15/- was reached by April 23, 1953.
The resultant losses have been shared
by producers throughout the world, and
must have totalled many millions of
pounds. If the stocks that have been re-
leased have eventually gone into con-
sumption, they have presumably done so
only as a result of the closing down of
mines, mostly in the United States_ of
America, So we have this situation,
namely, that in 1951 our respective Gov-
ernments were clamoring for supplies, and
giving every inducement for new pro-
duction, whilst in 1952 some of the old-
established mines of the U.S.A. could no
longer operate economically, and their
remaining ore reserves may be lost m-
Now 'l must mention another painful
matter, namely, the long-term contracts
which Governments have entered into
with new high-cost producers at floor
prices which are now well above any
ceilings that established producers can
hope to reach. Thus subsidised metals
from these high-cost producers will be
added to market supplies, and some old-
established efficient producers may he
closed down to make way for this metal.
REMOVAL OF AUSTRALIAN
PRICE CONTROL
In my address last year I indicated
that some part of the inequities of Aus-
tralian price control might soon be re-
moved. As a result of repeated appli-
cations by the Broken Hill producers the
States’ Prices Ministers consented to an
increase in price from £A6S to £A9S tor
both lead and zinc, to take effect as from
4th September last. This increase in
price, however, in the case of zinc, was
granted only on the condition that the
industry made an additional tonnage
available to Australian fabricators, hence
at that time the gain was tempered by
the reduced tonnage available for the
export market. A further and final step
was taken on the 17th April of this year
by the States’ Prices Ministers when they
removed price control from lead and zinc
on the condition that the prices charged
to Australian domestic consumers should
not be greater than those ruling for ex-
port. Although consumption of zinc in
Australia was fully maintained during
the year 1952, lead requirements fell short
of the tonnage that had been allocated
to the domestic market.
I am indeed hopeful that at the pre-
vailing level of prices consumption of our
metals will expand rapidly for civilian
use and that a ready market will be
found for our increasing production.
I referred last year to the establish-
ment of a small subsidiary company in
Canada, The Consolidated Zinc Corpora-
tion of Canada Ltd. This company is
still very much in its infancy, but its
first year has been well spent in gaining
information on the base metal mining
potentialities of various districts in
Canada. It has also continued to provide
useful services in connection with the
marketing in Canada of certain of our
products.
A SPLENDID ORGANISATION
I would like to conclude by repeating
what is probably already appreciated by
all shareholders, and that is that _ our
position has changed with much rapidity
from one of great prosperity as a result
of very high metal prices to one where
profits are greatly reduced and, indeed,
can only be achieved with the utmost
energy and efficiency on the patt of all.
None of you, I know, will accuse us of
having been lavish in our of
dividends during our four years of exist-
ence, but equally do I believe we_ have
had your full approval to the retention in
the business of comparatively large sums
of money; these I can assure you have
been—and will be —fully required, espe-
cially in view of the difficult times which
appear to lie ahead.
I do not wish to conclude this state-
ment on too gloomy a note, so let me add
one word of a happier nature —we have
built up a splendid organisation, both in
the United Kingdom and in Australia,
our properties are in first-class order,
and every opportunity is being taken, both
in exploration for minerals and in the
development of new processes which we
consider will be of benefit to your com-
pany.
reflect extensions and improve-
meats to the Sydney and
Richmond (Vic.) factories a
offices. The contraction o
£15,941 in more-or-less liquid
surplus (£102,843) was due
entirely to the outlay on nxe
assets.
-ru u a • « nf
The bpard is confident oi
maintaining the 6 p.c. div. for the
current term, thanks to the
steadier trend in trade generaUy,
easing of import restrictions and
a full milling programme, which
will result from a record rice
crop and “early and advan-
lageous procurement” of other
local produce The investment
possibilities of the scrip will look
more attractive when the prop
for capital is substantially
strengthened.
At 20s. 9d. the pound shares,
covered by 14s. 7d. in net
tangibles, return 5.8 p.c. on a
6 pc. div. basis.
Caledonian Collieries, Ltd
k®"‘
£ pc pc £ £
1943..36,549 7j nu„, 34,822 182,523
From insurance provision. m
- '
1949- . 2 3,006 Nil Nil Nil 174.465
From contingencies, £41,292 215,757
Further reconditioning,
£46, 092 169,665
Profit ,
mo. ,28.10 a i n 28.215 m,658
F »S 81 r S“" d ; tlom ?; .. iss.ns
1951 94.058 10 Nil 16.42| 1|1.36|
i»62. 2.8,120 20 n.i 02,56»
Caledonian operates seven pits on
the Northern N. S. Wales field.
West Wallscnd Extended (re -
opened in 1950) and one of the
Aberdare pits have been fully
mechanised, and a lot more
money is yet to be spent on
further mechanisation and
modemsahon of the remaining
P lts in $ m ? h •
on a sound an 4 ™^ e rn basis.
J* 1 ® S
tion, distribution and pn .
The co. has £1,487,894 of
capital to feed in 464,295 6 p.c.
pre f s> (subject to the outmoded
N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act) and 1,023,599 ords. Howard
But'nchhafbeen
diw for t
naven l a f- .
V ear !’ a “ d ££
£232,14/ m arrears,
T ¥ ><= a P ° £ £ls4 ’° 6£ ZX
“rm’s net earnings was due to
bigger output and wider pro -
margins following a lift in se
ins-orices Output increased by
SP ' .*1 i (100 000-
17 T p.c., passing the 1,000,U
t on mark, thanks largely to the
two fully-mechanised pits. The
£248.129 of, profit was wntten
alter auowing k R
£33,132) for depreciation and
mocqqq /- ur) £4B 900) for taxa-
tIS3,UUU (Up £<*o,? /
tion. It was equal to 10./ p.c.
on capita i (pre f. and ord. com-
bined) and was enough to wipe
» £53 663 of the pref.
OUI an out £JJ,uuj m w P
div. arrears. But money is wanted
in the business, so only £92,858
(4s. a share) was handed to the
prefs., leaving £232,147 (10s. a
share) to be paid before their
slate is clean, while £146,500 was
specially earmarked to help meet
future capital expenditure. The
national interest has thus been
placed in the forefront of policy.
The year’s net addition to
fixed assets was £131,370:
Paid capital— 1950. 1951. 1952.
Pref .. £464,295 £464,295 £464,295
Ord. .. 1,028,5991.023.6991,023,599
Creditors .. 321,158 518,044 623,108
Tax provision,
etc .. 136,111 334,311
Final div... 23,215 34,822 64,429
Fixed assets 1,439,163 1,386,588 1,517,958
Stocks and
stores .. 243,910 267,186 378,626
Debtors .. 289,417 617,010 667.248
Cash, bonds,
etc. .. 7,697 87,441 264,535
Intangibles.. 26,638
Stocks of coal and stores in-
creased by £111,440, book-debts
by £50,238 and cash, etc,, by
£177,094. Owing to the addition
to fixed assets and increase of
£105,064 in the creditors item,
the net gain in the more-or-less
liquid surplus (£288,561) was
only £5901.
At last term’s rate of payment
arrears of pref. divs. would be
wiped out in 2\ years. Thus the
ords., after quarter of a cen-
tury in the wilderness, look like
coming into the land of
moderate divs. within a few
years. The imponderables are
output, sales and profit-margins.
The co. is still increasing
its output potential; but actual
production will depend largely
upon what the miners decide to
do in the way of work. At the
moment there is a surplus of
some types of steaming and
coking coal, but Maitland large-
coal is still in short supply.
Since selling-prices are con-
trolled, the profit-margin will
ultimately become a question of
public policy, which should give
full recognition to the fact that
a coalmine is a wasting asset.
The ords. are priced at 1 Is. 2d.,
and the prefs. at 255. 9d.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
The decoration of Sydney’s buildings
and streets for the Coronation celebra-
tions might be regarded with modified
rapture. Although in parts quite hearten-
ing and even brilliant, there were great
dull blocks to be traversed before one
came to anything worth exclaiming
about. For instance, Mark Foy’s had
decorated their store very gaily with
flags, bunting and colored lights, and had
a child-size model of the coach, drawn
by Windsor greys and accompanied by
Yeomen of the Guard, but between there
and Market-street there was very little to
be seen. Farmers’ miniature of the Mall
with its moving procession was delightful,
and David Jones’s enormous illuminated
crown on the ground floor got applause
from the kiddies. McDowell’s had a
flag 70ft. by 32ft., which contributed a
good deal to the gaiety of George-street,
and splashed color all over its facade,
but on the whole there didn’t seem to be
much co-ordination between the retailers,
a point that might be corrected for next
year’s Royal visit.
A good attempt had been made to
enliven sombre blocks such as the Queen
Victoria Building and the G.P.O. with
wide striped streamers and the handsome
new flags flying from most of the public
buildings were good, perhaps the best
being the cluster of flags grouped round
the crest on the Commonwealth Bank.
On the whole, however, the crowds that
roamed disconsolately through the
streets on Coronation Day and got stuck
in the traffic-blocks the night before were
disappointed.
* ☆ ☆
The two main events of the week
were, of course, the Governor’s garden-
party and the Lord Mayor’s reception.
There were over 3000 people at the
garden-party, but the spaciousness of
the grounds of Government House made
this seem quite a reasonable number.
In the mild, slightly-dampish afternoon
the atmosphere seemed rather subdued
for such a joyous occasion, in spite of
the kilted police pipe-band and the red-
coated Eastern Command band, the in-
creased number of toppers and morning-
coats (bought for the Royal Tour, no
doubt) and the fairly high standard of
dressing among the women. Miss North-
cott wore a coat-dress in mulberry
velveteen with a small amethyst hat as
she moved among her guests accom-
panied by her fiance, Squadron-Leader
Russell Nash, and Miss Sheila Collett.
Her sister, Mrs. Donald Cobum, wore a
red suit with a small white hat.
Among those who chose velveteen
were Suzanne Snelling, whose red dress
and pearl-trimmed ermine hat were quite
in the Coronation mood, and Madeleine
Archbutt, whose dress was dark-green.
It was interesting to note the variety of
morning-coats being worn by the men,
some bound with black braid, some worn
with buff waistcoats, others with black,
others with grey, and there were one or
two who wore pale-blue waistcoats.
Chatting with Mr. and Mrs. Erik Langker
were the Mayor of Newcastle, Alderman
Purdue, and Mrs. Purdue, who had
flown down to Sydney for the reception
and were returning immediately after it.
* * *
The Town Hall greeted its 2000 guests
very gaily on Thursday night, when the
Deputy Lord Mayor held a reception in
honor of the Coronation. The facade
was brilliantly floodlit, and a red carpet
ran up the steps and through the foyer.
Inside crests and flags decorated the
pillars, and a really tremendous flag
covered the stage to form a background
for a sparkling model of the Crown. In
the basement, where supper was served,
every inch of the walls and pillars was
covered with flags. The Deputy Lord
Mayor, Alderman Frank Green, and
Mrs. Green shook hands with about 800
of the guests before retiring to await
the arrival of the Governor and Miss
Northcott, who were accompanied by
Squadron-Leader Russell Nash and Miss
Sheila Collett. Miss Northcott wore a
brilliant tiara with her pale-blue pin-spot
brocade dress, long white gloves and
mink stole.
The assembly was about the best-
dressed Mayoral reception to have been
seen for quite some time. Tiaras were
worn by many of the women, including
Mrs, R. J. Heffron, wife of the Deputy-
Premier. Mrs. Gordon Johnstone and
Lady Moxham. Mrs. C. R. McKerihan’s
tiara linked well w|th her regal-looking
dull-gold dress, Mrs. Tom Bateman
mingled fresh flowers and pearls in her
tiara, and Mrs, Norman Jenkyn looked
charming in mists of amethyst nylon
organza with a small brilliant tiara. Sir
Iven and Lady Mackay brought their
daughter Alison along, and among others
present were Mr. and Mrs. K. F. Coles,
Mrs. R. J, F. Boyer, Mrs, Hope Gibson,
Mrs. Nora Taplin, Mr. and Mrs. H.
Twigden and Mr. and Mrs. Harold Bott.
Mrs. Clothilde Might on, G.M.C.,
whose exhibition “Coronations Through
the Ages can be seen at Anthony
Hordern’s Gallery until June 17, is
Brisbane-born and has worked in Sydney
and London for several years. Her
exhibition, which is in diorama form,
presents incidents in coronations from
Ethel red the Unready to Elizabeth 11,
and shows them as a kind of three-
dimensional picture , something like
scale-models but more picturesque and
dramatic. She was first interested in this
work by Will Longstaff, who is himself
a noted worker in this form of art, and
she hopes to encourage interest in it in
Australia, where it is not widely known.
The letters G.M.C. which Mrs.
Highton is entitled to use represent the
Guild of Memorial Craftsmen to which
she was admitted in recognition of the
sculptural work she did during the
Festival of Britain, There are only 50
members of this guild, of which but five
are women. Mrs. Highton, who is a
war widow, is a daughter of Major
D. R. Harris, D.S.O., who she says is
her greatest helper in safeguarding the
accuracy of military details.
☆ ☆ *
What a busy week it has been! Every
organisation seems to have had a Coro-
nation party, the Victoria League has
had two —one a reception at Prince’s
when the toast to the Queen was pro-
posed by Rear-Admiral J. W. M. Eaton
and the guests were received by deputy-
president Mrs. H. H. McNall, the other
an informal party arranged by the Young
Contingent at the Club Rooms when
Miss Dorothy Boyd, president of the
Young Contingent, was hostess.
There were nearly 300 people at the
Coronation party of the Queen Victoria
Club held in the gaily-decorated annexe
of David Jones’s restaurant. Guest-of-
honor. Lady Morshead, was welcomed by
the president, Mrs. C. Stanley Wilson,
and the deputy-president, Mrs. G. Bards-
ley. Music was provided by pianist
Leone Stredwick and baritone James
Wilson.
At the Forum Club* a musicale was
held in the afternoon and a cocktail-party
at 5 p.m., before which Lieutenant-
General Berryman, who was accom-
panied by Mrs, Berryman, unveiled a
picture of the Queen. Miss Ruth Beale,
the president, entertained as official
guests Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Burbridge.
* ☆ ☆
The Stars in Harmony concert at the
Empire Theatre tomorrow afternoon
(Thursday, June 11) promises to be a
very bright show, as many of the top-
liners of the shows now running in
Sydney are to take part. The concert
will benefit the Actors’ Benevolent Fund
and J. C, Williamson’s Benevolent Fund.
MELBOURNE
Coronation Day began with a stirring
Trooping of the Color by the Royal Mel-
bourne Regiment; then the various ser-
vices—in that at St. Paul’s the Governor
read the Lesson ; then came the Corona-
tion Cup at Flemington. The vice-regal
party was received by Sir Thomas Mani-
fold (his knighthood a gift from the
Queen on her Coronation Day) and Lady
Manifold.
Lady Brooks wore a navy frock under
a fur coat, and her navy hat was trimmed
with royal-blue paillettes. Her bunch of
violets was tied f with red, white and blue
ribbons. Lady Manifold wore with her
grey-and-white-checked suit a small
folded beret of grey melusine. In popular
Coronation-red was Lady Snow’s coat.
Lady Blarney’s choice was a grey woollen
suit and primrose-yellow accessories.
* ☆ *
At the English Speaking Union’s recep-
tion Australian and American flags were
set at each side of the Union Jack. Over
the entrance to the club a curved branch
of English oak was suspended, and in
the drawing-room an old coach drawn by
grey horses and flanked with miniature
soldiers was in pride of place. Floral
decorations were carried out with bowls
of red poinsettias and blue and white
hydrangeas. Sir Charles Lowe, president
of the E.S.U., was assisted by Lady
Lowe, Mrs. Gerald Bacon and Mrs.
Graham Egerton in receiving the guests.
One of Melbourne's busiest young
matrons is Mrs. Ronald Marriott, of
Tooruk, second daughter of Col. and
Mrs. F. H. Wright. The mother of two
children , she is a member of the National
Theatre Ladies' Committee, and was on
the committee which organised the recent
National Theatre Costume Ball. Mrs.
Marriott is busy in other directions —
she is a vice-president of the Whernside
Auxiliary to the Royal Melbourne Hos-
pital, is also on the Central Auxiliary to
the same hospital, and is a member of
the Lady Foster Free Kindergarten Com-
mittee. Photo by Athol Shmith.
At Giro’s, beautifully decorated, over
150 guests attended a dinner-dance in
aid of the Children’s Hospital. The
organiser, Mrs. J. Woodrow, wore a long-
sleeved dinner-gown of hyacinth-blue
crepe, the bodice of which was trimmed
with pearls and crystal beads. She was
assisted by the ticket-secretaries, her
daughter Mrs. Edward Campbell and
Mrs. Bruce Rose. Mrs. Campbell’s frock
was of peacock-blue-and-black tie-silk ;
Mrs. Rose’s ballerina frock was of
turquoise-blue tulle.
Guests included the manager of the
hospital, Howard Barrett, and Mrs.
Barrett, she wearing Chartreuse faille with
a matching silk sari; Dr. and Mrs.
Vernon Collins ; the lady superintendent,
Mrs. Anton de Neeve, and her husband ;
Mrs. June Myers in black-and-white-
striped faille; Mrs. Leo Guest, the strap-
less bodice of whose frock was covered
with black sequins ; Mrs. Tom Carlyon,
wearing white hailspot muslin; Mrs.
Douglas Stephens, who combined orchid-
pink and green-and-rose brocade;
Mostyn Powell in white tulle; and Mrs.
John Knox, who danced in floral bal-
lerina skirt and black silk bodice.
☆ ☆ ☆
Cotton will be king of fabrics for the
coming season, but it is cotton with a
difference. In the collection shown by
Douglas Cox all cottons had the pure-
silk or surah finish. These drape softly
into moulded silhouettes, some of them
gfisten with gold or silver, as in the new
plastro-print. Although giving the
appearance of being jewelled, the plastro-
print is washable, as are the cotton paper-
shantungs, cotton failles and ottomans.
The charm of these cottons is that they
may be worn the clock around, are suit-
able for our climate, whilst dry-cleaning
bills are cut because they all launder so
well.
There is no radical change in the
fashion silhouette for the spring and
summer of 1953-54. The important point
is that the silhouette is moulded around
the type of fabric chosen. The Douglas
Cox cottons are all soft and adaptable,
so there is a soft silhouette with new
necklines, sleeves, pockets and skirts.
Important color-combinations are black
and white, white and grey, gold and
black. New and delightful colors are
bon-bon-pink and bon-bon-blue (delicate
pastel shades), dwindle-red. heather-
honey, pink-champagne, sugarbag-blue,
geranium, blue-grass (a soft lilac), blue-
smoke (this takes the place of navy),
sulphur-green (a lime), sherry, yellow-
rose, easter-chick (yellowish shade of
newly-hatched chicken), dark greys,
black (predominant for all occasions) and
white.
Skirts are an inch longer and tend to
give a more elegant look. The attractive-
ness of black-and-white was seen in a
cocktail ensemble which featured a black
cotton halter-necked bodice and full,
flaring skirt of white pique. Other in-
teresting fashion-pointers were the Gib-
son Girl sleeves in a blue-grass cotton
frock with a billowing skirt; the sugar-
bag-blue cotton faille day-frock with its
matching jacket lined in geranium cotton
faille; a bon-bon-pink and Ascot-grey
check everglaze pique with its flaring skirt
and tiny matching jacket. Another day-
frock allied a black silk-cotton bodice
with a full skirt of patchwork cotton
which incorporated 25 designs. Printed
silk frocks in unusual and lovely pat-
terns are still popular, and back again in
favor are the Bayadere prints, both in
silk and cotton.
☆ ☆ *
A striking reproduction of Windsor
Castle was the chief decoration at the
Town Hall for the Coronation Ball given
by the Lord Mayor and councillors,
which was attended by 2000. At the
entrance of the vice-regal party a portrait
of the Queen flashed on the screen and
guests sang “Land of Hope and Glory.”
Lady Brooks wore a lovely gown of
cream and gold brocade. The wife of
the Acting-Premier, Mrs. Galvin, wore a
beaded gown of buttercup-yellow cloque.
A bouffant gown of fine black Honiton
lace was the choice of the Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. Brens.
Lady Disney’s satin brocades . were
mother-of-pearl and silver, Lady Gen-
goult-Smith’s red threaded with blue and
green. Mrs. H. R. Solly’s pink and gold
brocade had its overdress draped to the
back. Black ottoman silk, flower-
embroidered, was worn by Mrs. R. Burns
Campbell, Mrs. J. T. Inkster danced in
black tulle. Among younger dancers
noted were Margot Hardy in beige
brocade which had a design of gold,'
pink and blue roses 4 Mary Evans, her
crinoline gown of pearl-tinted satin;
Marjorie Tatnall, whose paper shantung
frock was checked in green and white
with a faint yellow line; Barbara Owens,
in white Chantilly lace; Sally Hardman,
whose picture-gown was of dusty-pink
net; and Marion McPherson, attractive
in pearl-pink embossed brocade.
☆ * *
Southern Command’s Coronation Ball
attracted 900 guests to the Royale. The
G.O.C. 3rd. Division, Major-General
Selwyn Porter, in the absence of Lieut.-
General Sir Horace Robertson, received
with Mrs. Porter the official guests, who
included Lieut-General Sir Sydney
Rowell, Lady Rowell and their daughter
Rosslyn. Lady Rowell’s lovely gown
was of orchid-pink Chantilly lace, Ross-
lyn’s of embroidered pink organza. Col.
John Middleton, U.S. Army Attache, was
accompanied by his wife, whose bouffant
gown was of pale-apricot tulle em-
broidered with silver sequins. Mrs,
Porter’s frock was of grey tulle.
☆
Col, A. T. Bell, who was president of
the ball committee, was with Mrs. Bell,
whose gown was of lilac and white striped
taffeta. With Major Q. Tilley was Mrs.
Tilley, in pink tulle with a blue tulle over-
dress. A fanfare of trumpets heralded
the loyal toast to the Queen, and an-
other feature was the large blue cake
surmounted by a Crown which was made
by Army cooks.


tax
C 9
isa
Buying
a
Camera?
WE CAN SUPPLY ALL MAKES of
and Equipment for the Amateur and Professional.
Agfa, Agifold, Bolex,
Corfield, Diax, Eumig,
Ensign, Ferrania, Xloca,
Meopta, Leica, Zeiss, and
Voigtiander.
We send C.O.D. Lay-Bys.
Easy Terms.
All orders over £2O
Post Free.
Cairns Camera
Centre,
19 MARTIN PLACE,
SYDNEY.
CAIRNS
CAMERA
CENTRE
X
X
X
V
■s®
DRAMA WITH A CHALLENGE!
An outstanding presentation which dramatises the everyday truths,
the doubts, the fears of every thinking man and woman. It is a
challenge to all who hear its story. Every Tuesday Evening 8.30.
2GB - SAW - 4BH - 6IX - 7HO
2HR 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 7LA
and many other commercial broadcasting stations
throughout the Nation.
M aeqmrle B wadmting
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Ring Round the Moon”
Christopher Fry’s free re-
handling of Anouilh’s “L’lnvita-
tion au Chateau” is being slickly
produced, by Canberra Rep-
under director Alan Burke.
The most remarkable thing
about the production is its one
set: Marion Lazarus and Vic
Forstmann have devised com-
paratively simple but refresh-
ingly imaginative flats and
screens which so reflect the
spirit of the comedy that they
are part of it rather than a
background. The costuming has
also received more flattering and
imaginative attention than usual,
and Jackie Ryan, responsible for
the women’s dresses, also seems
to have had her head lightened
if not turned by French Fry.
The results are all to the best.
A play which evokes artistry
of this kind has undoubtedly
justified itself. And indeed a
comedy as thin as this needs all
the help it can get. Nor had this
reviewer been so struck before
by the real, if somewhat para-
doxical, weakness of Fry’s
dialect: that there is no harm in
it as long as the dramatist has
nothing to say.
Dell Mylne is an actress of
quite professional standards, and
the part of Madame Desmer-
mortes hardly extended her.
Chris Power as Hugo and
Frederic distinguished his two
roles nicely, and very often gave
the inevitable impression that
between the two of him he was
struggling to hold the play
together; trick acting certainly
did help, but it was still quite a
struggle.
Jill Crichton and Alan Burke
as Lady India and Patrice Bom-
belles were a sure combination
in timing, action and characteri-
sation. Helen Anderson, as
Isabelle, did not sparkle, but she
glowed affectingly, and she has
a voice which justifies every-
thing.
F. M. T.
Yi-Kwei Sze
Yi-Kwci Sze gave an exotic
touch to a programme that was
mainly English music at the
third of the 1953 subscription
concerts at the Melbourne Town
Hall. The Chinese singer with
the astonishingly deep voice was
magnificent in “II Lacerato
Spirit©” from Verdi’s “Simon
Boccanegra” and “La Calunnia”
from Rossini’s “Barber.” His
interpretation and production of
two songs so alien from his
country’s tradition were as
finished as his appearance. No
one has stepped on to the Town
Hall platform as immaculate in
wear and manner since the days
of Edward Goll, and few singers
have#shown a finer sense of
drama.
The Victorian Symphony
Orchestra was not so much at
home under the Castro baton in
the Handel overture from
“Agrippina” as it was in the
“Sinfonieta” of Eugene Goossens.
A tune whistled by a passer-by
in a street in London gave Mr.
Goossens his inspiration, and he
tosses the air to woodwind,
strings, English horn, trombone
and trumpets and plays his
variations on it until his fancy
is exhausted.
Vaughan Williams’s “Fantasia
on a Theme of Tallis,” excel-
lently played, was suggestive of
an organ. Walton’s giddy
“Facade” opened noticeably
slower than it has done under
other conductors’ batons and so
did Stravinsky’s “Petrouchka,”
but there was no leeway to make
up at the finish. The outstand-
ing orchestral soloist was oboist
Jeri Tancibudek.
♦♦♦ *£♦
“Carmen” and “The Barber”
The National Opera of Aus-
tralia opened its Queensland
season with “Carmen,” and the
first notable thing about the
production was the tautness of
the orchestral playing. Bizet’s
score is closely wrought; there
is nothing haphazard about it,
and at no time did the small,
flexible orchestra under Dime
Galiungi betray the ideals of
this, “the perfect opera.”
The second notable feature of
a fine performance was the
overall quality of the singing.
Queenslander Margaret Elkins
was Carmen ; tall, supple ,of
figure and voice, she appreciated
the vast and complex emotional
range of the difficult role.
Ronald Dowd lent his excellent
tenor to Don Jose, though his
acting was not up to the same
high standard; Neil Easton
made Escamillo a far more
human figure than is generally
done—no doubt Carmen knew
her men when she deserted the
mooning soldier for such a
fellow, whose brief, sincere love-
scene with Carmen in the fourth
act was the loveliest singing in
the work.
To that most colorless of
operatic ladies, Micaela, Marjorie
Conley brought more beautiful
singing and charm of manner
than such rustic mournfulness
deserved.
With “The Barber of Seville,”
the company arrived at some-
thing very near the sparkle of
the original Beaumarchais
comedy. Credit for this goes to
the swift-moving stage direction
of John Dudley and to con-
ductor Tiber Paul, who kept
Rossini’s music bubbling along
with never a slackening of tempo
or of interest.
Geoffrey Chard’s Barber was
an 18th-century Spaniard with
just a touch of Woolloo-
mooloo. As Count Almaviva,
John Fullard displayed „a voice
that was light, but of an
Italianate clarity; it carried off
his serenades to Rosina in a
manner fit to please any girl.
Rosina (Betty Prentice) moved
serenely around Wilfred Asplin’s
pastel-shaded sets, and Alan
Light sang Basilio’s “Slander
Song” in the grand manner.
Ensembles went with dash and
gaiety, but the producer should
have restrained the clowning in
the shaving scene in Act JII,
when Frank Lisle, an otherwise
credible Bart o 1 o , cheerfully
sucked the shaving-brush when-
ever Figaro cast surreptitious
glances to another corner of the
room to check up on the
romance between the disguised
Almaviva and Rosina.
■£♦
‘The Valkyrie”
Sydney Conservatorium has
notched several artistic suc-
cesses with its Opera School, but
Mr. Goossens’s presentation on
Saturday of the second of the
four operas which comprise the
Ring of the Nibelung certainly
cannot be numbered among
them.
Wagner’s libretto —even allow-
ing for translation weakness-
does little to help. In three hours
of the story’s telling there is
about 10 minutes of dramatic
action. In the whole range of
opera there is only one that
drags its slow length along
slower; Debussy’s “Pelleas and
Melisande.” In “The Valkyrie”
there are long periods of dreary
inaction in which the only two
characters on stage have nothing
to do but gaze at each other.
That is always a weakness in
Wagner of his later period, ob-
sessed as he . was with the
orchestra and apparently caring
little for the unfortunate singers.
Acting generally was below
standard, an exception being
James Wilson, who, as Wotan,
dominated every scene he was in
and sang with fine power. Alan
Ferris’s Siegmund never really
came to life, but he sang force-
fully and with ringing tone.
Norma Steadman as Sieglinde
used her lyric soprano with in-
telligence and managed to liven
a few minutes in the second act
with a convincing outburst of
passion. Nita Maughan wasn’t
sufficiently Amazonian as
Brunnhilda, whilst George
Harvey was wooden as the
vengeful Hunding.
The orchestra under Goossens
handled the score very well, par-
ticularly in the third act. It is
this final act—as in so many
other final acts of hjs operas—
for which Wagner reserved his
most splendid orchestral effects:
“The Ride of the Valkyries” and
the Magic Fire Music.
Artbursts
Blake
“F.S.”: On view at the
National Gallery in Melbourne
is an exhibition of Blake’s
watercolors to Dante, engrav-
ings to the Book of Job, illus-
trations to his own poems and
etchings 'by his friends Fuseli
and Samuel Palmer, which were
bought for a few thousand
pounds at a time when Blake’s
prestige as an artist was just
beginning.
Now that it is in full flood the
collection is said to be worth
£60,000, so, from the point of
view of money, the gallery made
an exceedingly good buy. The
artistry of it is another matter.
Blake’s reputation as a poet was
once greater than as an artist;
now his reputation as an artist
completely overshadows his
reputation as a poet.
Looking at the queer emascu-
lated figures of Job and the
Almighty, Adam and Eve and
Satan, the wibbly-wobbly regi-
ments of celestial songbirds, the
alleged Horrors of Hell and the
conventionalised bits of Nature,
one feels that Blake was a better
poet than he was an illustrator,
and looking at the woolly
academic drawing, the poor ob-
servation, the timid attempts at
color and the strange anatomy,
which any Gallery student could
do better, one is inclined to
agree with Rodin when he said
to a young lady who told him
that Blake really saw his angels,
“Well, he must have only looked
at them once.”
Talkies
“II Trovatore”
This is opera with the sweep
of action for which the screen
is eminently fitted —and there is
action a-plenty in it. And who
cares if the story of love, hate
and revenge is absurdly melo-
dramatic when such a stream of
luscious melodies flow through
it?
The singing is first-rate. In
Gianna Pederzini the producer
was fortunate in having a con-
tralto of rich quality and an
actress able to lend conviction
to the central role as the crazed
Gypsy Azucena. Enzo Mas-
cherini villainised suitably as the
Conte de Luna and raised a
baritone that would command
respect in any company.
In the romantic leads —
Manrico and Leonora the
voices have been “ghosted” ; and
therein lies the film’s only weak-
ness. Apparently the director
found it so difficult to synchro-
nise the off-stage voice with the
mouthing of the words by the
actor that he thought it best to
let the camera wander around
the adjacent scenery while an
aria was in progress. The tenor
voice is Antonio Salvarezza’s,
the soprano Franca Sacchi’s, At
Sydney Savoy.
Other New Releases:
“Young Bess” (St. James):
M.G.M.’s technicolored version,
on the new wide screen, of the
romantic attachment, before she
reached the throne, between
Queen Elizabeth I and Admiral
Tom Seymour. Jean Simmons
as Young Bess, Stewart Granger
as the ill-fated admiral and
Charles Laughton as bluff King
Hal.
“The President’s Lady”
(Century): Irving Stone’s story
of General Andrew Jackson,
7th President of the U.S.A.
Charlton Heston gives a virile
portrayal of the young lawyer
who literally fights his way to
the White House. Susan Hay-
ward as his wife.
“The Card” (Lyceum): Alec
Guinness in the most joyous and
natural manner. , Guinness is
able to wring rattling good
comedy out of situations purely
by his personality and skill; in
this film he has a vehicle ideally
suited to his amazing talents.
Nobody else in it counts.


o
£5
/'"i 7 % C
! i) !
'V.-/fjl iO
n
o
w
O
. - :
\
A GOOD WHISKY
MUST HAVE
STYLE /
and in McGaUum’s,
knowledgeable men always
find that perfection of style
brought about by the experienced
blending of grain and malt whiskies.
the
name
Cdilum
(I)
whisky
the
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland
MCI Sa/6.2
The SEA OF GRASS
by Roland Rolinson
GRIFFITHS was cranky in
that hut. It was the place
he had wanted, and he
had it to himself. It
stood away from the camp
among dark ironwoods and
white-gums. The tall dry spear-
grass stood close round it hiding
it still further. He was trying
to write. He craved isolation
and solitude. He shunned visi-
tors, until they became dis-
gusted and left him to it; and
then he suffered savagely from
his isolation.
But it was his hut, the kind of
place he liked. It was bush-
built. Its upright log walls
chinked the light. It had no
doors, just an open doorway at
each end for the wind to blow
straight through. When the trees
were in flower they , were
thronged with talking, scream-
ing, leaf-bird, fire-flower lori-
keets that dropped bitten-off
flower-cups and branchlets on
to the iron roof. In the begin-
ning of the “wet,” when the
leaves hung down still in the
heat and the heliotrope cloud-
shadows lay over the distant, un-
known ranges, the butcher-birds
came right inside and warbled
from the rafters, and the leather-
heads would come tap-tapping
under the roof after the spiders.
Fast-growing plants came up
through the floor, and, at night,
when he sat scratching and
groaning, fantastic and grotesque
forms of insect-life would sud-
denly sprawl and crawl over his
paper. In despair and desola-
tion he would get up and walk
outside, and there, in the tree-
branched darkness, were the
stars, cold-white and cold-blue
fires of stars, so large and close
he felt he could pick them from
among the leaves, and there, be-
yond the trees, the whole night
was blazoned with the stars.
And the rain, the time when
he lay listening to it, falling
relentlessly, without variation,
filling afi his consciousness,
drowning the world and him in
endless, complete and satisfy-
ing darkness.
Towards late afternoon the
rain would come, from the
north, with the sky dark-purple
beyond the bloodwoods and the
broad, torn flags of the banana-
palms. Suddenly, out of the
still heat, would come the cold-
ness of the wind rushing through
the leaves, lifting the slapping
tents, bringing the dry rain with
it, the nuts, leaves and sticks
hurtling across the iron roof,
and then the rain, the solid wall
of falling rain.
One evening he had walked
out into a living sea of the tall
and beflagged grass. As he stood
there the cold dark wind came
hollowing and glinting the seas
and seas of the grass. Suddenly
the lightning was livid on the
wine-dark sky. The very heart
of the mountains of the thunder
was split apart and the avalanche
of their cliffs descended with
the echoes of their chaos travel-
ling away into the sky. Then he
saw how tall the grass was about
him, how it was the inexhaust-
ible love of the earth, covering,
healing the desolation, the rust-
ing iron dumps of war, the
wounds and open sores that man
had made. The cold rain-wind
came ruffling, glinting the living
sea of the grass.
It was a Saturday morning,
and he had really got going with
a burst of writing. The morning
was still cool, and somewhere in
his consciousness he could hear
the shrill flights of shell-parrots
soaring and swerving over the
reaches of the river. He had
paused, saying to himself “So,
I’ve got you at last. Who said
I couldn’t write?”
A hoarse yelling broke in on
his thoughts. “Hey, Griff-o!
For Gawd’s sake, aren’t you
ready?”
Griffiths looked up. There, on
the road, was the old “liberty-
truck” piled with fellows, swag
and gear. It was big Jack who
was bellowing. He was standing
up in the truck hooking at Grif-
fiths with his arm to get a move
on,
Griffiths threw down the pen,
cursing. “No use trying to carry
on now. No use saying I’m not
going. Anyway, by this even-
ing I’d be off my head with
boredom if I stayed,”
He pulled blankets and canvas
off the bed, threw some gear
into them, rolled them up and
went out; then ran back for his
notebook.
TIP on the truck they had the
boat made from cut-out
petrol-drums and a dug-out
canoe they’d probably stolen
from the blacks. Jack, as usual
on weekends, was drunk. He
kept wanting to get off the truck
and run across country in his
bare feet. When anyone tried
to stop him he would wrestle
with them on the truck as it
dodged through the timber, then
get them down while he chewed
and growled and slobbered on
their ear.
'They had juggled the truck
as far down the river as they
could get with it. Nothing would
satisfy Jack but to get the heavy
dug-out on to bis shoulder and
stagger down to the water with
it. They loaded up the boat
and the dug-out, and Jack, con-
temptuous of crocodiles, waded
into the river, dragging the dug-
out over sand-bars and wrestling
with it in the rapids. If he
slipped in the rapids and went
under he still hung on to the
dug-out and came up throwing
hair and water out of his eyes.
The others cheered him on in
the rapids, and, in the shallow,
wide reaches of the river where
he wrestled with snags and
heaved them out of the way, they
would yell at him and ask him
what in hell was holding him
up. i
The camp was on an island-
like spit of white sand and
slender young paper-barks that
projected into the river. Across
the rapids a bit below the camp
they had stretched a camouflage-
net they had brought with them
for anything they might catch
during the night. They also set
out lines from overhanging figs
and paperbarks. That night
Jack and Griffiths built up a
huge fire. The other fellows
were starting off with the dug-
out, the spotlight and thf rifle
to shoot crocs. Now and again
a fish leapt and splashed in the
darkness of the wide smooth
reach of the river. Jack and
Griffiths just felt like lying on
their swags watching the fire as
it burned down and talking now
and again.
Jack was lying on his back
with his arms behind his head.
The fire was burning down to a
mass of red, glowing coals. With
his foot Griffiths pushed a
burnt-off end into the fire. Jack
hadn’t spoken for some time.
Then he said “Solitude, real
solitude; it’s something you
don’t often find. There’s been
one or two places where I’ve
known it. There’s a soak at a
place called Innamincka. It’s in
the desert. I was camped there
once, and just as it was begin-
ning to get dark I used to sit
under a tree and watch the ani-
mals come in to drink. I’ve seen
dingoes and foxes come in there.
They’d come down to the water
and drink their fill and then, in
the half-light, I’d see them play-
ing, chasing and leaping over
one another. You talk about
stars! You should see them
thick over the desert, I reckon
the best sound I’ve ever heard
was the dingoes howling under
those stars.”
“I don’t know,” Griffiths said.
“I think a swaggie’s got some-
thing. Just think of people
huddled together in suburbs
and slums. Do they know why
they do it? It’s all they’ve ever
known, I guess. Toil and wars
and depressions. I just can’t tee
it all up. I reckon they’re
dangerous. Why, they’re stark
staring raving mad. Aren’t they
just getting ready to blast them-
selves off the face of the earth?
I reckon that in the end there’ll
be a few isolated places with
people like you and me left.
We’ll have gone back to Nature
—living like the blacks.”
“Borroloola,” said Jack.
“That’s where I’m making for.
It would do your heart good
there. Griff. You’d sit under a
big banyan and that writing of
yours would just come to you.
All the tucker you want, pigmy-
geese, scrub-turkey, barramundi
in the river. You make traps at
the salt water and get your fish
whenever you want them.
There’s turtle and dugong.
There’s mangoes. You can plant
paw-paws. I tell you. Griff,
that’s where I’m making for
when this show’s over.”
JACK got up and upended a
big log he had kept. The
sparks flew upwards as he threw
the log across the flames. Far
down the river there was a rifle-
shot from the crocodile-shooters.
Jack threw himself down on his
swag and made a cigarette.
“Funny thing,” he said as he
licked the paper. “It was the
depression that woke me up. I
remember one time I came on to
a creek with big old coolibahs
over it. There was firewood
there. If you know what I mean,
the place had something about
it. It was a good camp. Well,
when I got closer I saw a fire
going, and an old joker was
camped there. I could see he
didn’t want to be disturbed, but
it was getting dark, so I went
up to him and said ‘Excuse me,
mate, but would you mind if I
was to share your solitude?’
“The old bloke had seen me
coming, but had just gone pn
putting coals on, the top of his
camp-oven. Even his dog
seemed to dislike me. Just sat
there getting ready to bare its
teeth. When I spoke to the old
joker he didn’t say anything at
first, just looked at me like the
dog. Then he spoke. ‘Listen
’ere, mate,’ he said, ‘if you camp
’ere there won’t be any soli-
tude.’ ”
“Yes,” Griffiths said, “they’ve
been so long on their own they
hate any company.”
Jack was off again. “Another
time,” he said, “I came on an
old bloke camped near a gilgai-
hole. He was playing cards. He
didn’t see or hear me, and I
came up close to him. He dealt
out a hand to himself, his dog,
his swag and his billy set out
around him. He picked up his
hand, studying it and mumbling
and growling to himself. Then
he looked round at the other
players. Suddenly he jumped up
shouting ‘Y’ cheatin’ b !’
He takes a stride and sends the
billy flying with his boot. ‘Y*
so-an’-so,’ he cries after it; T
saw y’ lookin’ at th’ dorg’s
’and! ’”
They could hear the splash of
a paddle and voices now and
again of the others coming back
up the river. They reckoned it
was time to turn in. It was Jack
who showed Griffiths a way of
sleeping warm. He said he had
learned it from the blacks. You
scooped out a hollow in the
leaves and sand and made a fire
in it. When you were ready to
turn in you threw out the ashes
and coals and unrolled your
swag in the place. You cer-
tainly slept warm. It was like a
ground-oven. If you made too
big a fire you’d wake up feeling
half’■cooked.
GRIFFITHS woke to the jets
” and springs of song of the
finches and honey - eaters.
Through the tresses of the paper-
barks the river was glittering
past in the first sunlight.
Eric, one of the crocodile-
shooters, and Griffiths went to
take in the lines. They had
caught mostly catfish. Hauled up
on the bank near the camp were
a couple of fresh-water crocs,
that had been shot. They went
down to the rapids where the net
had been stretched. Finches
swooped down out of the paper-
barks, dipped themselves in the
water and flew up into the leaves,
shaking off glistening drops of
water as they rose.
Griffiths peered down into the
water, following the net down.
It seemed they had caught noth-
ing. “I suppose the blasted mesh
is too big,” he said. “There!”
exclaimed Eric. “Down there.
A barramundi!” Far down,
near the bottom of the net, was
the silver flash of the barra-
mundi as he thrashed and
struggled to be free.
Out on the bank they dragged
the net, heavy with the barra-
mundi in its folds. Caught by
the gills, he had fought and
thrust until several meshes had
held him and cut deep into his
spiny head. They had to cut
the meshes to get him out. At
last he lay gleaming silver on
the bank, from where the finches
flew up through the air, shaking
the drops from their wings.
When they got back the other
fellows were sitting up stretch-
ing themselves. They cleaned
the catfish and scraped the silver
scales, as big as two-shilling
pieces, off the barramundi. They
cut him up into big steaks and
got the fire going. Jack still lay
sleeping in the sand under his
blankets.
“I’ll tell you what,” said Eric;
“remember Jack said he’d never
come at eating crocodile? Well,
I bet you he’ll have a couple or
croc, steaks for breakfast and
he won’t know it.”
Eric slit up the skin on the
(i Continued on page 22)


WORMALD BROTHERS SYSTEMS —for protection against fire
CARELESSNESS DID THIS!
m
d
w.
wm
■
7*
9
W¥ S» ''■* Wi ' ,J
mh
h<*f e
\d
it
COW
rC''*
P
As long as there is human carelessness there
will be fires. You can't prevent fires. But you
can prevent them from spreading and causing
material damage—with Grinnell Protection.
Grinnell Automatic Sprinklers control a fire
whenever and wherever it strikes, night or day,
automatically, without fail. That’s why Grinnell
Protected buildings carry a rebate of up to 50%
on Fire and Loss of Profits insurance premiums.
\
If your business or property is not Grinnell
Protected today—you’re carrying a grave risk.
Why wait for fire to strike? Wormald Brothers’
experienced engineers will help you plan
protection for your specific risk.
A complete fire protection service is main-
tained by Wormald Brothers at all branches
throughout Australia and New Zealand.
’Phone us and a representative will call.
/Y¥W¥ Tit T¥T¥ ¥
bUlNftlbLL
Automatic Sprinkler
and
Fire Alarm System
WORM AID BROTHERS INDUSTRIES
throughout Australia and New Zealand
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889 y


600,000-
Americans can't be wrong!!
Yes! This figure represents the number of
machines sold in the U.S.A. since the intro-
duction of SHOPSMITH in 1949.
Join the ranks of satisfied
SHOPSMITH owners and
possess the most versatile wood-
working machine of modern
times. Now made in Australia
by C. C. Engineering Industries
Ltd.
m
s'
X -
fij As a Circular Saw
(2) As a Disc Sander
As a Lathe
SHOPSMITH
Wlufctt ~ < FiOipU&
WOOD-WORKING
MACHINE
In a matter of moments, Shop-
smith can be adapted for use as
a . . . Disc Sander, Drill Press,
Circular Saw, Horizontal Drill,
or Wood Lathe. Shopsmith’s
rugged, practical design allows
for accurate duplication of any
precision job. Powered by a
dependable % h.p. electric
motor (Motors to suit local
conditions—A.C, or D.C. also
available).
SHOPSMITH may be pur-
chased on the most attractive
easy terms.
Multi-
purpose
Multi-
profit
(4) As a Drill Press
(5) As a Horizontal Drill
Manufactured by
C. C. ENGINEERING INDUSTRIES LTD.
under license from Magna Engineering Corp., U.S.A.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS;
N.S.W. (Sydney Metropolitan Area)
C. C. DISTRIBUTORS PTY. LTD.
213 Bridge Road, Glebe, N.S.W.
Demonstration & Showroom: 125 a York St., Sydney. 8X7044
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd., Sydney. Nock & Kirby Ltd., Sydney.
N.S.W. (Country Distributors)
A. J. Ellerker, 63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victoria: J. R. Hall & Co., 500 Bourke St., Melbourne. Hardware Co of
Australia, 71-75 Queen’s Bridge St., South Melbourne.
West Australia; Watsbn Bros. Pty. Ltd., 363 Murray St., Perth.
South Australia: Harris Scarfe Ltd., Grenfell St.. Adelaide.
Queensland: Ellerker Bros., 261 Wickham St., Valley,. Brisbane.
Tasmania: J. R. Hall & Co., 50 Esplanade, Devonport.
CRIPPLING RHEUMATIC PAINS
quickly eased with
TRADE MARX I
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
• During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciauca, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
• DOLCIN is non-toxic.
• DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
• DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years.
• 1,100,000,000 tablets have been administered throughout
the world.
• DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
• DOLCIN is obtainable from your chemist.
iSS-*-*
Af*** 1
i«n*r
MlO*
SC!
EUR!* 15
wbaoo
UA» U
•X
*W
***
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLCIN
Informative literature on Dolcin
will be sent on request to Dolcin
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Box 1552,
GJP.O., Sydney.
D 4.2
tail of one of the crocs. He
cut out a couple of big steaks.
They were a white flesh, like
fish.
They were sitting round break-
fasting off the fish when Eric
called out to Jack. “Hey, Jack,
you lazy cow. Don’t let your
breakfast get cold.”
TACK went down to the river
and doused his head. He
came back, still bleary-eyed. He
had several days’ growth of
beard on. Griffiths could see he
was in a bad mood. They
watched him as he started in
on the steaks.
“A bit tough, these catfish,”
said Eric. “What’s yours like
Jack?”
“Huh,” growled Jack. “It’s
not bad. You blokes can’t go
bush-tucker. You might have
cooked it a bit more, though.”
Jack went on eating. At last
he put his plate aside. There
was still half a steak left on it.
“What’s up. Jack?” said Eric.
“Off your tucker?”
“Aw, I don’t know,” said
Jack. “I feel satisfied.”
“Well,” returned Eric, “I
went to a lot of trouble with
those croc, steaks for you.”
This didn’t seem to sink in
on Jack for a moment or two.
Then he looked up. “Crocodile,
you said?”
“Sure,” They were all laugh-
ing. “Thought you would never
eat crocodile? Why, it’ll build
up your strength.”
Jack looked across at Griffiths.
“You in on this, too. Griff?” he
said.
“Why, yes,” said Griffiths. “I
thought”
Jack was getting up. “Yeah,
that’s your trouble. You think
too bloody much. Well, I guess
that’s the kind of joke you’ve
got to expect from a lot of bush-
lairs. You’re mugs, the lot of
you.”
Jack kept to himself after
that. When the other fellows
loaded up the boat and the
canoe to go back Jack set out
with his swag along the river-
bank. It was some time before
he got over it and came out
with them again.
/'"'LOSE to the beginning of our
second “wet” they set out in
the truck for The Gorge. For
weeks the huge white clouds,
that foretold the coming rain-
time, had been rearing up in the
sky. In order to obtain the truck
they hajd had to make up the
required number of fellows in
the party with several outsiders.
They had to be kidded into com-
ing. They would rather have
stayed in the camp to spinebash
or go down to the swy-game.
Now they had brought rifles
with them and were blazing away
from the truck as we went along
at anything they saw.
“I’ve got an idea they’ve
brought some gelignite with
them,” said Jack. “They get it
from the Army mob.”
“Well,” Griffiths said, “we’ll
have to come down on them if
they start shooting charges in
the river. It’s only what we’ve
got to expect from these jokers.”
The Gorge was in the ranges
where the river rose. The track
out was bad, and, at one place,
coming down the steep side of
a creek, they very nearly turned
the truck over. They came over
a ridge of white-grass and white-
gums against an intense blue
sky. The Gorge lay below them.
Sheer, red : gold rock walls held
in a huge, natural dam of jade-
green water. Far up the water
stretched; then the rock-walls
cut it off. There were sup-
posed to be waterfalls at its
head.
They had only the petrol-drum
boat with them. They loaded it
with the gear, and two of the
fellows started across with it.
The rest eventually dived in and
started to race the boat across.
Halfway over the boat had to
take a couple of the fellows in
tow. Jack, to urge the others
on, kept calling “Come on, you
jokers, we won’t wait if a croc,
fastens on to you.”
On the other side a little creek
ran down into the gorge. They
made the camp there and built
up a good fire, mainly to keep
off the mosquitoes. Jack told
the outsiders it was to keep the
dingoes away.
“Sometimes,” he said, “they
come right down into the camp
when you’re asleep. You wake
up in the morning and find their
pad-marks in the sand all around
you. Sometimes they just sniff
you and sometimes they’ll slash
open your throat and drink your
blood. A good bushman always
sleeps lightly.”
“Gripes, Jack,” said Griffiths,
“how do you expect us to sleep
tonight if you keep these yarns
up?”
“Yarns, are they?” said Jack.
“Listen! There! Up the
creek! ”
From far up the creek, in
the ranges, there came a thin,
drawn-out cry. Listening, they
could hear the water fretting over
the shallows in the creek. The
down-hanging tresses of the
young paperbarks shivered,
glinted silver in the moonlight.
nriRED out, everyone had
turned in. Jack had outlined
a plan to Griffiths for putting a
scare into the outsiders when
they had gone to sleep. It was
all Griffiths could do to keep
awake. The moon had moved
right over across the creek when
he heard Jack on his hands and
knees beside him.
“Right-oh, Griff,” he whis-
pered. “I’ll be howling just out-
side the camp. When they, begin
to wake up yell out ‘Dingo!’
That’ll scare ’em out of their
wits.”
Jack gave a low hoarse chuckle
and went crawling off into the
darkness.
Soon the weirdest howl Grif-
fiths had ever heard went up
into the night. There was no
movement from the sleepers
rolled up in their blankets around
the fire. Again the howl went
up, and still the sleepers did not
stir. Jack was howling loud
enough to scare any dingo away
for miles. In between howls
Griffiths could hear one of the
sleepers snoring with a good
steady snore.
There was a hoarseness com-
ing into Jack’s howling now, and
he thought the time had come
to give him a rest from his pain-
ful efforts. Griffiths threw off
the blanket and yelled out
“Dingo! ” at the top of his voice
and fired off the .22.
Only one sleeper sat up ; and
that was Eric. “For God’s sake,
Griffo, if you don’t put that
dingo out of its agony I will.
That’s the worst dingo-howling
I’ve ever heard. If Jack stays
out there howling all night he’ll
never wake this mob up.”
In the morning Eric and Jack
and Griffiths explored the
creek. Soon it became a series
of deep rock-pools overhung
with paperbarks and figs. Jack
named the creek Black-bream
Creek because of the bream they
saw finning and swimming lazily,
unafraid of them, in the sunlight-
shafted deeps. Coming back
Eric caught sight of a golden
tree-snake, a python, that
travelled rapidly over the
branches of the trees. It reached
out and passed from the tips of
the branches of one tree to
another.
Eric climbed after it on to a
tree it had just entered/ As it
passed along an outstretched
branch he launched himself
after it. He caught it and fell
with it, plunging into the pool
below. It was harmless, and,
as he held it, writhing and coil-
ing itself round his arm, it
turned a deep, beautiful purple
down its head and neck in its
anger. Now, as they came down
the creek towards the camp it
was in the sugar-bag Eric always
carried with him.
■pROM down near the gorge
there came a muffled sound
of an explosion.
“Thought so,” said Jack,
“they’re blasting the fish. We’ll
have to break that up. They’ll
be doing themselves in like that
joker who blew his hand off.”
They could see the water of
the gorge through the trees when
there was a terrific explosion.
The sheer, high walls of the
gorge flung the sound of it back-
wards and forward, and the
echoes of it went travelling far
up the reach of the water.
“Holy smoke!” Griffiths ex-
claimed. “That charge never
found the water.”
“Charge!” Jack shouted. “I
heard that kind of charge in the
Middle East. It’s grenades those
b s have got hold of!”
They started to run. The
walls of the gorge came almost
to the edge of the water. They
could just make their way along
the base where pandanus leaned
out. They could not make out
where the explosions had come
from.
Then they came round the
corner of a deep, narrow cleft in
the rockface. Jack was ahead
of Griffiths, Eric just behind.
The fellows they had left at the
camp were in the cleft. One of
them, Butch, the nearest to them,
was in the act of throwing some-
thing. He seemed to see them
just before it left his hand.
Griffiths heard him scream
“Christ! Look out!”
He saw something, like a
stone, leave his hand. It struck
the rockface, bounded back and
fell, not ten feet away, between
them and the others.
Griffiths saw the other fellows
standing contorted, with their
arms across their faces. He
seemed to be paralysed, staring
at the grenade lying in the sand.
He saw the deep-cut squares of
its shell. As he looked at it it
seemed to be swelling. As in a
dream he tried to force himself
forward. He must grasp it,
throw it away, away out over
the water.
Then someone cannoned into
him, sending him flying. It was
Jack, rushing past him. As he
ploughed in the sand he heard
the explosion. It was dull,
muffled, between them. He had
sand in his mouth. He was
getting up.
The fellows were all standing
round as though they were
stupid. One had his hand to his
head, staring, staring.
Then Griffiths saw. It was
Jack, He was lying twisted up,
torn open where the grenade
had been.
o Continued on next page )


Right’
round -the World
with the greatest
of Ease „
fly me
m
SOP 4
mi
p l^
BRITISH
ROUND
THE
WORLD
AIR SYSTEM
(QANTAS-8.0.f1.C.-BCPA-TEAL)
■ :uV
All the magic
of the East is
part of your
British Round-
the-World trip.
From Singapore to the Mediterranean, in-
triguing native life and customs, rare
curios, unforgettable scenes of Oriental
splendour bring thrilling new experiences.
Stop-over wherever you wish. Friendly
British airline service is always nearby.
The brilliant
pageantry of
Britain, the
culture of
Continental
Europe, the
f
d
ď
fd
modem miracle of North American cities
—all these are yours to see and enjoy for
as long as you choose. Your British
Round-the-World ticket is a “passport”
to helpful British travel guidance every-
\
where you go.
4%
m
i
m
For information
and reservations
consult your
Travel Agent or
any office of
QANTASorBCPA.
ONE CONCESSION TICKET ALL THE WAY
Here is Round-the-World travel simplified
as never before. These four great airlines of
the British Commonwealth have united
to create a unique one-ticket globe
encircling system that brings “short-trip”
convenience to your 25,000 mile journey.
On your British concession Round-the-World
ticket you can choose your direction —
eastward or westward, see a dozen or more
different countries, set foot on five different
continents. You can take as little as a
week or as long as a year for the same
air fare, confident the whole time that
you’re in safe British hands all the way.
YOU, SEE THE HIGHLIGHTS OF BOTH
HEMISPHERES - THE SPLENDOURS OF THE
EAST -—THE WONDERS OF THE WEST.
L% /
M;'
Your one British Round-the-World Air Ticket can take
you, for example, to world renowned places like Indonesia,
Malaya, India, Ceylon, Pakistan, Lebanon, Egypt, Europe,
Britain, Canada, North America, Hawaii, Fiji, New Zealand.
BASSa
fds
OANTAS
AUSTRALIA’S \ OVERSEAS AIRLINE Q ANT AS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. (ine. in Q'land.)
MEMBER OF BRITISH ROUND-THE-WORLD AIR SYSTEM WITH 8.0.A.C. BCPA & TEAL
IT was evening. Through the
doorway of the hut the sky
was storm blue, intense, just be-
yond the trees. Far beyond the
wet and silent land the lightnings
were still wakening where the
purple hair of the rain, that the
blacks said was the hair of the
gods, the “rain-men,” trailed
down out of the sky.
Griffiths got up from the
trestle-table where he had been
writing. He picked up the sheet
of paper and read it, one hand
scratching and raking through
his hair.
With disgust he screwed the
sheet up and threw it across the
hut. The place had become a
prison to him. He must get out.
The air was cool and smelling
of the rain and the earth. As
though he had not seen it be-
fore, he became aware of the
tall, beflagged, living grass that
was all about him. It was
almost over his head. Suddenly
the lightning startled the sky
beyond the trees. And, as he
stood there, the cold wind came,
dark like the shadow of the
storm, glinting and hollowing
the seas and seas of the living
grass.
Chiming Doorbell
by DAVID ROWBOTHAM
s* UT the bread thin,"
I cried Mrs. Baldock as
y she slapped Alice’s
hand. Cecily giggled,
and the dog stirred.
The Baldocks were having tea.
Mrs. Baldock and Norma had
just arrived home from the
clothing - factory where they
sewed for a livelihood from nine
till five-thirty. Mr. Baldock
had sauntered off one day and
had never come back, and Ella’s
husband, after seven months, had
done likewise. Ella now stayed
at home all day and managed
house in a disastrous fashion.
Cecily went to school. Ruth,
Norma’s friend, who stayed with
the family, sold gloves behind a
counter in the city and, during
her evenings at home, slopped
round in a faded dressing-gown.
The dog was allowed indoors
about this time every evening
from the back-yard, which was
more like an alley than a portion
of the house. It was boarded
high, and communicated with the
narrow rear lane only through
a hole in the wall that had been
fitted with a wooden door
secured by a strip of leather and
a nail. In the yard were scraps,
tea-leaves, a clothesline, the
garbage-bin and the wash-
house.
The dog was called George,
but responded to any name. He
could enter the kitchen through
the back door. Beyond the kit-
chen was the dining-room, in
which was Ruth’s couch, and
beyond the dining-room was the
lounge, which was nearly always
in darkness. It was the last room
or the first —on the ground floor ;
its door was the front door, and
this was, as much as possible,
kept shut against the encroach-
ment of the gutter and the dead-
end street.
Up and beyond the stairs that
hugged the wall of the dining-
room and terminated near the
kitchen were two bedrooms
where Mrs. Baldock, Norma,
Ella and Cecily slept. On each
side were other, neighbors’, bed-
rooms, other narrow back-yards,
other dining-rooms and stairs
and similar kitchens. And
around all this the pattern of
small alleys and streets and
tenements. Not far away the
trams ran to the city past the
church and the doctor’s place
and the school. Smoke and dust
mingled day and night over the
dwellings of the district’s inhabi-
tants, and the night-lights yel-
lowed the atmosphere.
6 6TS that water boiling yet?”
-*• Mrs, Baldock wanted to
get away to her game of housie.
The game operated every night
of the week, one block away,
behind the hotel. Mrs. Baldock,
who gambled like nobody’s-busi-
ness, often left home at six,
returning when the fever had
lapsed about five o’clock in the
morning. By then she was
stony-broke, bibulous, and im-
mediately ready for breakfast.
Norma, cooling off in a pink
chemise, took the kettle from
the gas. Cecily plied her burst-
ing stomach with more bread
and honey, and Ruth, in dress-
ing-gown, scrambled herself
some eggs. Alice, Cecily’s class-
mate from next-door, slapped
her slice of bread on to the
stained cloth, drowned it in
dripping, folded it, and gorged.
Ella, smoking and sipping at
lemonade, dreamed on the stool
in the corner. Norma began to
snivel
“You fool,” said Mrs. Baldock.
The earnestness of the remark
would not have been apparent
but for Norma’s redness of eye
and her unhappy supervision of
the kettle. Norma was having
love trouble. Though shrewd
in disposition, she was suscep-
tible of heart. The “latest” had
been Alf, the grocer’s carrier of
a block away.
He had come over quite a lot
of evenings, whistling along the
narrow streets and through the
shoulder-wide passage joining
the Post Office lane to the dead-
end street, and, each evening,
had gaily twisted the key that
set the doorbell chiming. With
the last chime singing and dying
prettily, Norma would open the
front door, squash a kiss tip-toe
against his cheek and, taking his
hand, lead him possessively into
the kitchen. Alf liked it for a
while, for he was rather partial
to brown hair, but then he found
the local-theatre usherette, and
withdrew from the house of the
chiming doorbell,
Norma snivelled because this
evening was one when Alf had
usually called, and she missed
him. She did not reply to her
mother’s criticism.
Ella was of much the same,
disposition as Norma, and, as
she dreamed and smoked and
sipped, was lost and saturated
in self-commiseration, oblivious
of Norma’s spasms and Mrs.
Baldock’s indictment.
She and Fred had met in the
park, while lunching among the
pigeons. When a boy and a
girl, sitting within crumb’s-throw
of each other, both make a pre-
tence of doting on the same
pigeons, it is certain they are
doting upon each other. Within
one month of a sunny noon that
lit the grass and jewelled the
fountain, they were married in
the church facing the tramline.
Their unrelaxing preoccupa-
tion with each other annoyed the
whole household. Mrs. Baldock
felt minimised; Norma felt
scandalised; Ruth felt outdone.
Now, shocked into a sublime
awareness of her deserted state,
Ella exploited marvellously the
histrionic possibilities of the
situation and sat loosely trans-
fixed by grief tha,t was not
altogether without its compensa-
tions and memories that still
were not entirely without their
little, familiar nudges and pats.
Fred would, in time, return,
be forgiven and, in time, would
go away again. The drama fore-
told this; the instinctive know-
ledge of it emanated from Ella
in an aside that fretted the house-
hold as too-much-said can when
people are able to predict a
sequel for themselves.
(Continued on page 30)


centum to mote ttfcfoni
NEW BUSINESS
IN 1952
OVER £108,000,000
104th Annual Chairman’s Report
Highlights from Address given by the Chairman of the Principal Board (Mr. Cecil H. Hoskins)
at Head Office, Sydney, on sth June, 1953.
HEW BUSINESS RECORD
t ! 1>»
1948 1649 1950 1951 1952
"Is 1952, the Society issued
178,141 new policies, assuring a
total* of more than £lOB million,”
said Mr. Hoskins. “This estab-
lishes a new record for the
underwriting of life assurance
by an Australian life assurance
society . . . there are various
factors in the growth and pros-
perity of the Society’s business,
and the degree of our success is
subject to many influences. Per-
haps the most important of these
are the intrinsic worth of the
policies we offer, the loyalty of the
staff, and the efficiency of our
organisation.”
PAYMENTS TO
POIICYHOLDERS
£10.500000
“The Society has been providing
life assurance on the mutual prin-
ciple in this country for over 100
years and also for considerable
periods in New Zealand and the
United Kingdom. During this
time, it has fulfilled all its obliga-
tions arising in respect of thous-
ands of policies owned by members
from all walks of life. In 1952
alone, the Society met claims by
maturity of over £5 million and
claims by death of over £si
million. Obviously A.M.P. policies
are regarded as symbolising the
best in life assurance.”
MANAGEMENT COSTS
“Our total costs of operation have
naturally increased with the
growth of our business. However,
I am particularly pleased . . . that,
although the costs of salaries and
of materials rose, a slight reduction
has been effected in the ratio of
expenses (including taxes) to pre-
mium income in the Ordinary
Department. In the Industrial
Department, however, the expense
rate again rose.”
ASSETS EXCEED
£255,000,000
b 'on'o M
“At the close of 1952, the Society’s
assets exceeded £255 million. In-
vestments have had to be selected
to absorb the amount of over £l6
million by which the Society’s
funds increased in 1952, and
provision has been made for the
reinvestment of the proceeds of
maturing securities. Throughout
the year, demands for investible
funds were considerably in excess
of supply and . . . the Society
was in many instances compelled
to decline apparently sound in-
vestment propositions.” The con-
tinuance of a wider investment
policy, and the rise in interest
yields, resulted in a further im-
provement in the effective rate of
interest earned.
MEDICAL RESEARCH
Mr. Hoskins expressed the Society’s
pride in being associated with
other leading life offices in the
Life Insurance Medical Research
Fund of Australia and New Zea-
land, in the establishment of
which it had played a leading part.
As already announced in the press
the first task which the Fund has
set itself is the investigation of
diseases of the cardiovascular sys-
tem, currently the prime destroyer
of life.
STAFF
“I want to thank the
Staff, both indoor and
outdoor for their splen-
did contribution to the
success attained,” said
Mr, Hoskins. He went
on to note that the
Society had on its staff*
officers qualified in
such varied subjects as
“actuarial science,
medicine, accountancy,
agriculture, architec-
f
dsf
ture and many other fields of
learning.” He further observed
“that the opportunities for those
wishing to serve a career in indus-
try grow as our business grows
and our operations become more
complex and diverse.”
LAND DEVELOPMENT SCHEME
Work on the Society’s Land
Development Scheme in South
Australia grows steadily. Recent
official declarations on primary
production underline the national
character of the Project.
BONUS RATE MAINTAINED
“The surplus available for distri-
bution to participating policy-
holders provides for reversionary
bonuses at the same rate as last
year.” Since bonuses in the Ordi-
nary Department are calculated
on a compound basis, “many
policyholders will receive a slightly
greater bonus for the year 1952
than for 1951.”
ds
CORONATION
In conclusion, referring to the
coronation of Queen Elizabeth 11,
Mr. Hoskins said: "I am sure that
the thoughts of all our staff and
policyholders turn towards Lon-
don at this time in loyalty and
devotion to Her Majesty.”
NEED FOR SAVINGS STRESSED
"There is,” said Mr. Hoskins, "one aspect of our economic
affairs on which I would like to raise my voice.* It is a
simple but fundamental matter. I refer to the role of
savings in our economy.” In countries like Australia and
New Zealand, with undoubtedly great scope for develop-
ment, there was a danger that, excluding the use of
inflationary methods, savings would fall short of the amount
required to finance an optimum scale of development. We
should not be too complacent about obtaining sufficient
finance from abroad. In illustration of this point, Mr.
Hoskins quoted from the statement issued after the Com-
monwealth Economic Conference held in London last year.
“The amount of savings which will he available from
external sources will, at the best, be small in relation to
the size of the development programmes of the countries
of the sterling Commonwealth and it is therefore essential
that these countries should themselves adopt policies
which increase the flow of savings .”
“Put quite simply, the problem is this,” said Mr. Hoskins,
“we cannot expect others to lend us their savings if we are
not ourselves prepared to save . . . Life assurance is one of
the most important channels by which savings reach the
capital market.”
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Head Ofjtoe: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney. General Manager: M. C. Buttfield.
S56c


War II Histories
Japan Comes In
By "EK DUM"
Mr. HASLUCK, in writing
the first volume of his
internal history of Aus-
. tralia during World
War 11, had access to the official
papers of the Government and
its War Advisory Council and
Cabinet.
Australia differed from other
Western countries in that war
did not unify it politically. The
attempts of Messrs. Lyons and
Menzies to form national Gov-
ernments to deal with war crises
were uniformly rejected by
Labor, which refused to abandon
the party system, declaring that
in war-time Labor must govern,
since it was “the workers who
made the sacrifices” and made
the war-effort possible.
Thus, though its members
joined the Advisory War Coun-
cil, in which they could criticise
and mould policy without hav-
ing the responsibility of imple-
menting it, they had no other
part in framing the war-effort.
The history of government in
Australia at top political level
is a history of internal struggles
between the Government and its
war councillors, whose attitude
seems to have been almost
entirely opportunist.
This became apparent in the
War Council almost as soon as
Labor members began to sit in
it. Labor had previously
scorned the idea that the defence
of Australia could be based on
Singapore.
Mr, Curtin had declared in
November, 1936, that “how-
ever great the expenditure in
naval preparations might be, un-
less it ensured victory every
pound is wasted.. . .The British
Fleet at Singapore would be
much the same as Von Spec’s
squadron in the Pacific Ocean:
it would be chased across the
ocean and sunk.” That there
were “those who say that that
[Singapore] dock could easily be-
come a veritable harbor of
Santiago as far as the British
Fleet and the security of Aus-
tralia were concerned.”
He added, in other speeches,
that the strength of Australia
must be in aviation. For “a
capital outlay of £7,500,000 we
can have an aerial fleet of 25
squadrons or 300 aeroplanes.
Ships of the Australian Navy
which cost double that have
been towed out to sea and sunk
as obsolete.” That was the
Opposition’s attitude right up to
the outbreak of war and for
some time after.
And then came 1940, with the
fall of the Scandinavian coun-
tries, the Low Countries and
France, with Dunkirk. And in
the closing months of the year
Labor members of the Advisory
War Council suddenly became
Japan- and Singapore-conscious,
Mr. Hasluck writes of the
background overseas of that
period:
The Battle of Britain was at its
height. Daring the period September
to December (1940) over 20,000
Britons were killed and over 30,000
injured in enemy air-raids.
The war at sea and every-
where else seemed in a stage of
disaster. It was in the period of
the London-Coventry-Liverpool
holocausts that Far Eastern
Security became an issue and
that a proposal was put for-
ward by the Australian Govern-
ment that a staff conference on
Far Eastern Security, already
suggested in August by the
British, should be held in Mel-
bourne.
It was held in October in
Singapore, the Australian dele-
gation being Captain Burnett,
Assistant-Chief of the Naval
Staff, Major-General Northcott,
Deputy-Chief of the General
Staff, and Air-Commodore Bos-
lock, Deputy-Chief of the Air
Staff.
At that time, despite neutrality
agreements and coquettings with
Germany and the U.S.S.R., it
must have seemed improbable
that Japan would attempt any
major attack southward on
British or American interests,
while Russia sat with free hands
on its Asian flank. But the con-
ference “reviewed the defence
requirements of India and
Burma in the light of a possible
Japanese threat from Thailand.”
The talks were intended to make
a tactical appreciation of the
position “in the event of
Japanese aggression.” The con-
ference adopted the theory that
British countries in the Pacific
and the Netherlands would be
best defended by a concentration
of forces in Malaya. It found:
While the possibility of a major
expedition against Australia and
New Zealand may be ruled out in-
itially, we must stiU maintain in
Australia and New Zealand such
army and air forces as are necessary
to deal with raids and naval and
air forces to ensure maintenance
of vital trade, protect troops and
other convoys and carry out local
defence duties.
On November 25 Mr. Menzies
informed the War Council of
the probability that Australia
would be called on for troops
and munitions for Malaya. And
now Mr. Curtin was heard
loudly asking the British, hard-
pressed as they were in their
own area and the Middle
East, to send a battleship to
Singapore and for the R.A.N. to
be disposed “for the defence of
waters to the North of Aus-
tralia,” measures which he had
always before deprecated as use-
less.
The defences of Malaya, of
course, were hopelessly inade-
quate —so were the defences
everywhere else, for that matter.
There were only 17 infantry
battalions available, of which
10 were Indian and one
Malayan, and the air forces
and naval forces were next to
nothing. After all, we were at
war with Germany and Italy.
We were not with Japan.
■+■ +
Cabinet’s decisions, following
the discussions in the Advisory
Council, “left the main responsi-
bility of repairing these defici-
encies on the United Kingdom,
but offered whatever assistance
was possible in the supply of
anti-submarine and mine-sweep-
ing vessels, mines and depth-
charges, to provide Australian
troops for temporary service in
Malaya and to commence work
immediately to improve air-
defences in the Australian area.”
The offer of Australian troops
for Malaya was, says Mr. Has-
luck, “unenthusiastic, as on a
previous occasion” when the
subject had been raised;
The Australian Chiefs of Staff
recommended a brigade group and
necessary maintenance troops, with
a modified scale of equipment only,
be made available at an early date
“as a contribution to the deficiencies
in land forces,” but that these troops
should only be located in Malaya as
a temporary measure while complet-
ing their training and until such
time as the Eighth Division could
be concentrated in the Middle East,
when they would be relieved by
Indian trops.
It was decided after War
Council discussion that Cabinet
represent to the United Kingdom
the likely effects of the climate
on Australians and also “the
‘psychological’ unsuitability of
Australian troops for garrison
duties,” but also that we would
add to the defence of Australia
itself, in the event of hostilities,
the care of New Guinea, the
New Hebrides and the Solo-
mons.
Meanwhile, in line with Mr.
Curtin’s new naval policy,
Britain was to be advised to
base three or four capital ships
on Singapore as a deterrent to
Japanese action in this region—
Britain needed every ship for
actual war at the moment, and
the ships called for represented
a quarter of the capital Navy.
Mr. Churchill, however, three
or four days before the record
raid on London at the end of
1940, thanked Australia for its
offer of troops and promised to
do his best; but he said he
thought “the danger of Japan
going to war with the British
Empire had lessened.” He
wrote that ' -
It would be impossible for the
British Fleet to leave the Mediter-
ranean at the present juncture with-
out throwing away irretrievably all
that had been gained there and all
.prospects for the future. Anxieties
in the East must be borne patiently
and doggedly, it always being under-
stood that if Australia were seriously
threatened by Invasion Britain would
not hesitate to sacrifice the Mediter-
ranean position for the sake of Aus-
tralia. He concluded that, broadly
speaking, British policy was to build
as large as possible a fleet, army
and, air force in the Middle East and
keep this in fluid condition, either to
prosecute the war in Eibya, Greece,
and presently Thrace or reinforce
Singapore should the Japanese atti-
tude change for the worse.
A British Commonwealth
Commander -in - Chief already
had been established at Singa-
pore to secure fuller co-ordina-
tion of the defence of Malaya,
Burma and Hong Kong. The
C.-in-C. was to communicate
direct with the Australian
command on matters of interest.
There were further discussions
at Singapore with Netherlands
representatives and Anglo-
American staff conversations in
Washington. Still further talks
between Australia and the
Netherlands authorities took
place in February, 1941, and a
Netherlands Army delegation
visited Melbourne to discuss
supply and other matters.
Darwin gai'rison was
strengthened, plans for the
evacuation of northern civilians
made, plans made to instal guns
at Rabaul, Moresby and else-
where. Ten more age-groups
were called to the militia in De-
cember. Schemes'were discussed
with New Zealand. An Eastern
Group Supply Conference was
held at New Delhi, where we
were represented by Walter
Massy-Greene. The principles
of defence adopted in 1937
when it was agreed that what-
ever Australia could do outside
its own territory would be only
after achieving “basic self-
sufficiency” were reaffirmed.
Generally industrial aims were
stepped up on a large scale. The
obstruction and demands of the
A.L.P.’s constituent unions were
the main bar to this being done,
but Labor was very vocal in
Council about the prime need
for it.
Before he left for England at
the end of January, 1941, Mr.
Menzies outlined the essentials
of the war situation to the War
Advisory Council, at which the
chief Opposition representative
was Mr. Forde, Mr. Curtin being
absent. Mr. Menzies concluded
“that, in the light 0f.... .the view
expressed by non-Government
members of the Council, he
would be better able to say in
London that he spoke for all
parties in Australia.” Then he
left, and Mr. Fadden took over.
Almost at once headlines
flared up in the Press: “We
Stand In Danger.” “Danger of
Hostile Action. Australia In
This is the first of two articles based on Mr. Paul
Hasluck’s volume “The Government and the People,
1939-41.” The second will appear next week.
Peril.” “Some of the labels
above reports emanated from a
meeting of the Advisory War
Council on February 5, 1941,
about the situation in the Far
East,” combined with “sugges-
tions that not only had the war
changed but the character of the
Council had also changed.” It
seemed to have become a body
in which all were of 'one mind
in panic, from which “dramatic
revelations” emanated with
great regularity.
Mr. Hasluck says that an
examination of the matter be-
fore the War Council on
February 5 “does not indicate
that the outlook in the Far
East was so changed in charac-
ter as to justify raising an
alarm.” But at this first meet-
ing after Mr. Menzies* left, the
only two Ministers present were
Fadden and Spender—who “had
bustled home from Malaya full
of information about its weak-
nesses.”
The discussion on Japan had
taken place at the request of
the Labor members. Mr. Curtin
made “a long assessment of the
state of the war, leading him to
the conclusion that the next six
months would be fatal to one
side or the other.” He gave a
learned talk on strategy and the
potential nature of attacks on
Australia. The Chiefs-of-Staff
were called into the meeting and
“were questioned mainly by the
non-Government members' re-
garding various possibilities in
the defence of Australia.” These
officers “dwelt on the problems
which were being caused by
labor difficulties, the naval
effort was being set back by con-
tinuous strikes and labor prob-
lems in shipyards and docks,
which, of late, had shown a 25
per cent, lag in output over
earlier months.”
Thereupon “non - Govern-
ment members agreed that as a
result of the frank discussion
....they had come to a fuller
appreciation of the alarming
situation and recommended
that a Press statement should
be issued so that the position
might be brought nearer home
to the general public.”
Mr. Fadden fell into the trap
and issued a statement which
reported the meeting in outline
and said that “it was evident
from the discussion that all
members of the Council realised
Australia, equally with the Em-
pire as a whole, is now entering
upon a period in which its very
existence is at stake.”
In the cables a week later
appeared “straws in the wind
which suggested that Japan
might have thoughts of moving
southward,” and Mr. Curtin
took command of the Advisory
Council discussions again and
made what was “in effect,
although not so stated, an attack
on the delusions which he him-
self had nurtured before the war
and during the early months of
the hostilities in Europe.” He
suggested that Australia should
not fear the effect of “provoca-
tive action” and that “orders
shotild be issued immediately for
a test mobilisation” —a measure
which he must have known
would never have been accepted
by his own party, which it
would have been political suicide
for him to advocate publicly, and
which certainly would have been
provocative to Japan.
The Government already had
plans made for a partial test
mobilisation, if needed, but
knew that a full one would dis-
locate the whole of the war effort
and transport, beside causing
panic and huge expense.
Eventually it was agreed that*,
“in view of the serious inter-
national situation and the
menacing attitude of Japan,”
plans for a mobilisation of the
armed forces should be taken in
hand so that Australia could be
put on a war footing immedi-
ately the necessity arise.”
Mr. Fadden warned members
to keep secrecy—they didn’t, of
course —and refrain from making
information available to the
Press, and Ministerial members
objected to the panic atmosphere
of a draft of a statement which
Mr. Curtin produced for publi-
cation, Nevertheless, a state-
ment which was agreed on
emphasising “the clamant
need for the greatest effort of
preparedness this country has
ever made,” and referring to
matters of “most serious im-
port affecting the next few
weeks,” was enough to frighten
anybody.
Mr. Hasluck says that Mr.
Curtin had not only convinced
the War Council, and was in
process of convincing the pub-
lic, that there was great danger
ahead but “had also caught up
Fadden and Spender into the
feeling of dire urgency.” He
carried his warnings to a meet-
ing of trade-unions, which re-
ceived his warnings philosophi-
cally—they had no effect on
strikes and stopwork. If he did
not actually create the panic
which he himself admitted that
his propaganda might create it
was largely because, as in every
crisis, Mr. Hughes was openly
sceptical, and the Chief of the
General Staff, General Sturdee,
told the Press purposefully that
he did not know why the Chiefs-
of-Staff had been summoned to
meet the Advisory Council and
would be glad to be told.
+ 4
The United States Govern-
ment announced that it had no
official knowledge of reports of
an urgent situation, and Mr.
Menzies disparaged what was
being done in Canberra by ex-
pressing in London hopes for
peace in the Pacific and the
view that the British Common-
wealth should have a positive
policy of thrashing' out differ-
ences with Japan, while, if neces-
sary, explaining to that country
where the limits of tolerance
ended. He held that there should
be “a positive policy of friendli-
ness with firmness in everything
that was really vital, instead of
taking it for granted that Japan
would make war.”
He was, therefore, much at
variance with the Advisory War
Council and Cabinet members
at home, who believed that
their Press statements, combined
with the dispatch of a brigade of
Australian troops to Malaya,
“had been effective in staying
the hand of Japan in regard to
any southward penetration she
may have had in mind.”
Mr. Hasluck writes that “for
this far-fetched claim the his-
torian can find no substance”:
It is difficult to accept the state-
ments issued by the Council as
being a response to an international
situation, unless one assumes that the
political leaders were so nervy and
excitable that they could no longer
weigh the facts before them. The
records already quoted also indicate
the large part that purely domestic
considerations played in shaping the
action and Curtin’s ad-
vocaf / of action. Some of those who
the events were disposed
to rate the move as a political dodge
to attract attention away from
Menzies and Xiondon to Canberra and
the I.abor party, and to foster the
impression that the Opposition had
a better knowledge of the needs in
Australia and was more capable of
giving dynamic leadership through
the Advisory War Council than the
War Cabinet. Others' saw in it a
dramatic assertion by Curtin of the
priority of the Far East over the
Middle East.
Mr. Hasluck himself thought
that Mr. Curtin’s purpose was
the rousing of the people to a
greater war effort and to stem
industrial unrest. There was
another view which he does not
mention—that Labor propa-
ganda was a smokescreen to
divert attention from the deliber-
ate sabotage of the war-effort by
key unions within the }»arty.
,It was not an edifying spec-
tacle —Mr. Menzies overseas
with the consent and backing of
the War Council arranging
“closer concert with the U.S.
and Great Britain to deter or
prepare against Japan,” the War
Council at home, almost hysteri-
cal, issuing statements without
(Continued on page 30)


We Have Pleasure In Announcing
"THE CORONATION OF HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH II"
in 16mm sound and 3mm to be available
to you this month.
This film, a Movie Pak feature, captures the splendour and
historic tradition of the Coronation for you to. re-live in your
own home and in your own time.
You will see “The Solemn Moment of Crowning” clearer
here than anywhere, the cheering crowds, our radiant young
Queen and her gallant husband and the colourful procession
through the transformed streets of London.
Films will he available in the following sizes:
16mm sound—2 reels—Boo feet.
1 reel —4OO feet.
Bmm silent—2 reels—4oo feet.
I reel —2OO feet.
Also available in the Royal Family Album Series in 400 foot 16mm
sound Movie Paks are:
"ROYAL MOTHERS” “PRINCE CHARLES AT PLAY”
“ROYAL CHRISTENING” “BABY PRINCE CHARLES”
also “THE BRITISH MONARCHY” (a 2 reel 800 feet)
See your local Photographic Dealer, or
Distributors —
SIXTEEN MILLIMETRE AUST. PTY. LTD.
49 Market Street, Sydney. (M 2231). Box 4778, G.P.O.
Public Notice
AUTHOR desires contact car-
owner going Q’land. Can drive.
Reply 106, “The Bulletin,”
Sydney.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
TO ALFRED HAROLD THOMPSON late
of 140 Unwins Bridge Road Tempe New
South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
DOROTHY JOAN THOMPSON has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 558 of 1953
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under Section 19
(2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
13th July 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from JOHN W.
PERRY & SON. Solicitors, of 44 Martin
Place, Sydneyi—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
OPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3i ins.,
68 x 38 and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No, I to No. 8
Plain or Printed,
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
fds
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan [,'J;
Uanufaturini Suuiowr* • nd PHnWr ’
304 - 306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
SPORTING NOTIONS
The English Derby was a
crowning triumph for the
knighted horseman, Sir Gordon
Richards, on the 5-to-l favorite
Pinza, who easily defeated the
Queen’s colt, Aureole, with Pink
Horse (“Togo” Johnstone) third.
For upwards of 25 years Sir
Gordon had tried vainly to land
the great classic. Now 49, his
greatest ambition has been ful-
filled and he has won every race
of note on the English Calendar.
A record crowd of nearly a
million filled the Epsom race-
course and its vicinity, one com-
mentator describing the Hill »as
a “human pin-cushion.” A
wealth of sentimental money was
invested by “Coronation-happy”
punters on both her Majesty’s
colt and Richards’s mount, and
bookmakers had a heavy pay-out
on the winner.
v* • * ■ • •
Richards has won, up till last
week, 4670 races from about
21,000 mounts and at 49 can still
ride at Bst. —a remarkable
achievement. Reputedly worth
£400,000, he is reported to be
considering retirement and tak-
ing on training.
As the fancied horses for both
the Doomben Ten Thousand
and the Cup to be run in Bris-
bane early in July were not pro-
duced at any race meeting on
Saturday last there has been no
material changes in the order of
favoritism on the double, but
with the issue of the weights to-
day (Wednesday) betting will
liven and owners and trainers of
the best-backed runners will soon
give their views on the assess-
ments.
• • • •
Pure Fire, which recently
returned to winning form in
Melbourne, and three Sydney
sprinters, French Echo, Karendi
and Suncup, are best fancied for
the rich sprint while Hydrogen
is nominal favorite for the Cup,
followed by Basha Felika, Prince
Dakhil and Alinga. There is
some doubt whether Hydrogen
will take his place in the Cup
field. Until the stable decides,
wise punters should stay their
hands as Hydrogen bets taken
now might prove so much waste
of money. It seems certain that
some of the horses mentioned in
the betting market will not be
making the trip to Brisbane.
Miss Kathleen O’Mara, who
has been secretary to the
Clarence River (N.S.W.) Jockey
Club for many years, has for-
warded the usual brochure
covering the club’s Grafton Cup
meeting on July 15, 16 and 18.
Total stakemoney is £5560, and
the carnival is certain to attract
some of the best horses from
Brisbane and Sydney. Main
double is the Ramornie Handi-
cap of £4OO, six furlongs, and
the Grafton Cup of £1250 and
£75 trophy, miles and 100yds.
Entries for the double will close
on June 22, and for the minor
events on July 6. South
Grafton’s £5OO Cup and £25
trophy will be decided on July
22. Grafton’s racetrack straight
is approximately two furlongs in
length, almost as long as that at
Randwick, so the best horses
are given every chance to win.
Favorites and second-favorites
won six of the eight races de-
cided at Rosehill, while longest
starting-price against a winner
was 7-to-l Barnaby in the con-
cluding event. Even he was
backed for a small fortune, firm-
ing from 10’s to 7’s. Big punters
lifted a fortune from the ring,
but many of the smaller backers
were not exactly happy about
the brevity of the odds, but in
the main it was a punter’s day.
Despite the series of reverses the
same bookmakers will be on
their stands again and at the
same track this coming Saturday.
Some of them enjoyed the
Coronation celebrations in Eng-
land, so things can’t be too bad
in the fielding ranks. Punters
are enjoying a good run at
Sydney meetings lately, but the
trot could end at any tick of the
clock.
Three hours after Barfleur had
cleared out with a two-year-old
event at Rosehill on Saturday
last his half-brother Rotate won
the main sprint at Flemington,
the Lancaster Handicap. It was
Rotate’s third win in four starts
and he seems a sprinter above
average. He shared topweight
(9.5) with Diplomacy and started
equal favorite with Tudor Arch,
which had wori at his three
previous starts. Both Barfleur
and Rotate (by Whirlaway) are
from Creusa, and were bred by a
N.S.W. breeder, Mrs. G. Finlay,
who sold Creusa’s yearling colt
by A 1 Wassat (imp.) at the recent
Randwick autumn sales for
300gns. Buyer J. Henderson
might have a bargain yearling if
latest form of Creusa’s progeny
is a guide. Creusa is a sister to
Faraway, a Randwick and
Sydney suburban winner some
years ago. Rotate is among the
entrants for the Doomben Ten
Thousand.
A number of punters were
noted supporting outsider Lucky
ENGLAND
V
AUSTRALIA
Sequel in the final event on the
Rosehill programme the
Welter, won by 7-to-l Barnaby.
The pair were bracketed on the
tote. Had the supporters of
Lucky Sequel patronised the tote
they would have been paid a
dividend of a little more than
8 to 1 instead of being left with
worthless tickets. Neither horse
had sound form, but Sellwood
was the determining factor in
Bamaby’s success. Barnaby is
raced by Mrs. Mick Bruxner,
wife of the leader of the
Country party in the N.S.W.
Parliament. It often rewards
punters to pay close attention to
bracketed horses, and it seems a
wise idea to support the
bracketed number when one
fancies either of the two runners.
Two chances are always better
than one, a factor which doesn’t
escape the shrewd race follower.
While takers of the odds at
Rosehill spotted winners well
punters at Flemington experi-
enced a mixed day as did those
who patronised the Doomben
fixture. The most interesting
winner at the V.R.C. fixture was
two-year-old Magic Mountain,
who won his fourth successive
race and is a colt of much
promise. There is no escaping
consistent winning form. Magic
Mountain scored at a mile, and
could prove a good stayer in the
coming season. He is a son of
High Peak (imp.) and Golden
Gossamer by Dhoti (imp.) from
Money Spider by Paper Money
(imp.). High Peak is a son of
the noted Hyperion from Leger
Day by Winalot. High Peak
was a brilliant racehorse and
won races in the best company.
He started second favorite for
the English Derby won by
Dante, but missed a place. High
Peak is sire of several Melbourne
winners.
• • • •
Owners of horses continue to
be fined the customary £1 for
wrong colors. Owners appear to
be escaping lightly for this breach
of the rules, brought about mostly
through carelessness on their
part, or on that of the trainer
or the jockey. Many owners
carry their colors to the course,
taking pride in their race livery,
which is as it should be. There
is nothing worse from a spec-
tator’s viewpoint, nor the club’s,
than to see soiled or crumpled
colors. The A.J.C. should try
to make all owners color-con-
scious. This is the rule in other
parts of the world.
• • • •
From Japan Thomas M.
Mogan has told Dalgety and Co.
that a record consignment of
thoroughbred yearlings bought
by them at the recent Sydney
yearling sales on behalf of
Japanese interests has arrived
in good shape. After supervising
the loading of the youngsters in
Sydney, Mogan flew to Japan to
meet the ship at Yokohama.
The yearlings were the
progeny of leading sires, includ-
ing Midstream, Delville Wood,
Channel Swell, Precotant, Con-
fessor, Hunter’s Moon, Abbots
Fel and Finis, bred respectively
by the Kiora stud. Scone
(N.S.W.), A.J.C. committeemen
F. W. Duesbury and Reg
Moses, and James Bendrodt.
* * *
In Sydney R.U. games
University v. Northern Suburbs,
30-0, was too one-sided to
be interesting, except for the
form of Uni. five-eighth Gud-
sell. Since the S’Africa trials
(in which he didn’t play) Gudsell
has not put a foot wrong.
In the other Union matches
Randwick b. Drummoyne, 11-3 ;
Manly b. Gordon, 19-9 ; Eastern
Suburbs b. St. George, 20-13 ;
Eastwood b. Parramatta, 14-3.
Tourists, of course, are not
playing in club games. But the
form of some other players, such
as Heinrich (Randwick) and
Hancock and Miles (Gordon),
must be causing selectors second-
thoughts. Most controversial
omissions (apart from Queens-
landers) were Gudsell and Hein-
rich. Last Saturday East’s
winger, Noel Hayes, also struck
form with three tries and a spec-
tacular tackle.
Best finish of the Melbourne
football day was Footscray’s
furious effort to overhaul the
lead put up by Collingwood,
which bounced away to a five-
goal lead in the first quarter, led
7.10-4.3 at the final change, and
then just managed to keep ’Scray
out and win by a point, 7.10 to
7.9. However, had ’Wood’s
forwards been up to a scratch
the lead would have been
greater.
• • • •
Geelong ambled along to a
comfortable win over Mel-
bourne, 11.16-8.10, and other
games came out as expected:
Carlton downed North Melb.,
14.16-7.6, Fitzroy beat Haw-
thorn, 8,12-5.14, South Mel-
bourne beat St. Kilda, 18.16-
7.11, and Essendon accounted
for Richmond, 11.18-7.6.
• • • •
Next Saturday Norwood and
North Adelaide teams play a
competition game at Sydney
C.G. followed by an inter-State
match between Queensland and
N.S.W. next day.
* ♦ ♦
A full house crammed Leich-
hardt Stadium to see Tommy
Burns (10.8) make a come-
back against Harry Hayes
(10.11), Fans got a great fight
for their money, and, spurred
by the fierce fighting in all 12
rounds, cheered the pugs loudly
all the way, then hooted referee
Art Mawson when he called it
a draw. Yet the decision should
have been popular, as the house
was evenly divided as to who
won. Always the aggressor in
former fights. Burns backed
away early in this, and was out-
pointed in the first four rounds,
though round four went against
Hayes on the no-foul rule —he
was cautioned for butting soon
after it started. Hayes continued
to score a major portion of
points, and when the skin beside
Burns’s right eye began to bleed
in round six things did not look
very bright for the former welter
champion. Hayes also won the
next two rounds, and, punching
Burns back to the ropes in round
nine, he seemed sure to win.
Burns, however, fought back
savagely in the last three rounds,
and expert judges thought this
final spurt gave him a slight
margin. Mawson, who has
probably declared more draws
than any other referee in Aus-
tralia, refused to separate them.
It was one of the best glove
battles seen in Sydney for years.


A Great Pioneering Adventure
Sea-dredged
Trensure
By THOMAS MILES
ONE afternoon in Novem-
ber, 1907, the small
coastal steamer Padang,
with a most ungainly-
looking “monster” in toy/, sailed
from the port of Penang on the
west coast of the Malay
Peninsula.
Rectangular in shape, perhaps
130 ft. long, square-sided with
square bows, little freeboard, a
tall funnel and with a huge steel
structure pointing skyward at an
angle of forty-five degrees, the
“monster” appeared half-ship,
half-factory.
Curious spectators ashore tried
hard to identify it. Sailormen
on their ships in the harbor,
having a closer view, saw in it
the semblance of a harbor
bucket-dredge. And a bucket-
dredge in truth it was, but in
most respects quite unlike any
they had ever seen. Making
identification even more difficult,
it was being towed stern-first!
What, they wondered, was its
purpose, where was it bound for,
steering northward from Penang
into the then little-known seas
bordering the west coast of the
Malay Peninsula and Siam?...
On the bridge of the little
Padang stood a rather remark-
able man. Captain Edward T.
Miles, a master-mariner of the
old school, nearing sixty, short
and broad-shouldered, with a
flowing beard. Trained in the
sailing-ship days of “wooden
ships and iron men” he had had
a most adventurous career, both
afloat and ashore: gathering
cargoes of furs in the frozen
seas of Hudson Bay in the Arctic
regions; sailing as an able-sea-
man in the famous China Tea
clipper Ariel; as a young
second-mate of the barque Bal-
macarra, when her captain,
mate and all the crew except
himself and one man were
stricken with smallpox, navigat-
ing and sailing the ship to port;
and, in the ’seventies, as master
of the brig Rio Loge, at Mau-
ritius when warning of an im-
pending hurricane was given,
putting to sea, in the face of
it, and his one of the few ships
to survive.
Even when he left the sea for
life ashore there was still adven-
ture : shipowner, trader, railway-
construction contractor, and
member of Parliament in Tas-
mania, his birthplace,.
At the turn of the century-
fortune for a time failing to
smile on him—he was travelling
in the East selling ships on com-
mission and placing orders for
timber, railway-sleepers in India,
street-paving-blocks in Manila,
ships and timber in Japan, till,
in the course of his travels, he
came for the first time to Penang
in the year 1904, to find there a
profitable market for old
steamers placed in his hands for
sale by the Union Steamship
Co. of New Zealand.
He succeeded in selling several
ships to Chinese buyers inter-
ested in the coastal trade of the
Malay Peninsula; transactions
which brought him into contact
with influential Chinese who,
apart from their interests in ship-
ping, had other interests on the
west coast of Siam, between its
junction with Burma at Victoria
Point and its southern boundary
on the borders of the Malay
State of Kedah. Their chief
interest was centred at the port
of Tongkah, on Puket Island,
some 200 miles north of Penang,
where one of their number
reigned supreme as High Com-
missioner, or Governor-General,
with the Siamese title of Phya
R.cl S3. del
Had Captain Miles, they
asked, any knowledge of tin-
mining? Was he prepared to
inspect a tin-bearing area at
Tongkah with a view to working
it by European methods?
It so happened that during
one of his spells ashore in his
native Tasmania, Capt. Miles had
had some tin-mining experience ;
a visit to Tongkah was arranged
by his Chinese friends, and he
duly arrived there, to be greeted
by Phya Rasada.
There was, he found, open-
cast mining by primitive Chinese
methods going on in the vicinity
of Tongkah on a large scale.
Practically all the payable
ground, except that on which the
town stood, had been worked
out or was in process of being
worked out. The price of tin
was, at that time, about £l2O
sterling a ton (metal). With
the primitive methods of mining
employed by the Chinese, only
really rich ground could be
profitably worked.
The area Phya Rasada wished
to interest Capt. Miles in was
the portion of the town
covered mainly by the
Government buildings—
post-office, departmental offices,
police barracks, etc. —collectively
known as the Compound, but
the prospective tin-seeker real-
ised that the amount of com-
pensation to be paid to the
Siamese Government and private
owners ruled the Compound out.
Instead, he followed the
Chinese mine-workers right
down to the sea-shore; in fact,
even beyond it, the miners having
worked out into the tsea for
about half a mile. This was
done by building an embank-
ment round a small portion at
low tide; then, by means of
woodefi pumps, operated by
water-power, the enclosed
portion was pumped free of
water and the seepage kept in
check by the pump while the tin-
ore was'mined from within the
enclosed area. When this was
worked-out the process was re-
peated.
Several hundreds of coolies
were employed on this work,
which, although costly, was
showing a handsome profit.
Sometimes an unusually heavy
storm would broach a gap in the
embankment, and the mine
would be temporarily flooded
by the sea until the breach
could be closed and the mine
pumped out again.
Capt. Miles, watching these
operations, wondered how far
into the sea the lead of tin-ore
ran. Always a man of action, he
decided to find out. He hired
from the Government a hand
boring-equipment, used for test-
ing deposits on shore. He then
bought two sampans and en-
gaged two Chinese carpenters,
and although unable to speak
any Chinese, while the carpenters
knew no English, he demon-
strated to them how to join the
two sampans together with a
stout wooden platform, with a
space in the centre to allow the
pipes of the boring-set to go
down into the sea-bed.
With this equipment, a gang
of eight men, again without a
common language, and four
anchors to moor the craft
securely whilst boring, Capt.
Miles, in a matter of two or
three weeks, had satisfied him-
self that the run of tin-ore ex-
tended in highly payable quan-
tities for at least two miles be-
yond the sea-wall.
Capt. Miles remembered that
during his travels in New Zea-
land and Australia he had seen
small bucket-dredges working in
rivers recovering gold from the
river sands. Could not the same
principles be applied to recover-
ing tin-ore from the ocean bed?
The conditions were somewhat
different; the gold was re-
covered from shallow depths,
whereas in the Tongkah sea-
deposit the strata of tin-bearing
wash were 30ft. or more below
the sea-bed. But Captain Miles
was convinced that dredging was
the solution.
To High Commissioner Phya
Rasada, still keen on the Com-
pound area, with compensation
payment and royalties that
would enable him to build a
new and better town, Capt. Miles
put his picturesque proposal:
“I will excavate a dock,” he
said, “sufficient to berth the
largest ship trading to the port.
From this dock, situated at the
shoreward end of the harbor,
near the town, I will excavate
and maintain a channel 20Oft.
wide, out to the deep water
where the ships now lie to dis-
charge their cargo. Ships will
then be able to come right into
the dock to discharge and load
cargo and no lightering wifi be
necessary.”
“At what cost to the Govern-
ment?” shrewdly asked Phya
Rasada.
“At no cost at all,” Capt.
Miles immediately replied.
+ +
And on those terms the foun-
dations of what became later
the Tongkah Harbor Conces-
sion were laid!
It so happened that at this
time the Minister of the Interior,
Prince Damrong, brother of the
King of Siam, Was about to
make a visit to Puket, from
Bangkok, and on Phya Rasada’s
suggestion Capt. Miles drew up
a draft agreement (later ac-
cepted by the Siamese Govern-
ment almost without alteration).
To make the proposition more
realistic, he measured out the
dimensions of the proposed dock
on the actual site, marking the
boundaries with long poles sunk
into the mud, each with a white
flag at the top of it.
The Prince, one of the most
enlightened men in his country,
became an enthusiastic sup-
porter, largely responsible for
the agreement going through,
pending which Captain Miles
had to make the long trip back
to Tasmania to arrange flotation
of a company, which was to
have in it, at their request, many
of his Chinese shipping friends
and other Chinese merchants of
Penang as original shareholders.
Capt. Miles, assisted by an
engineering friend in London on
the technical and engineering
side, was himself the chief de-
signer of the dredge then ordered
from, and in due course supplied
by, William Simons & Co., Scot-
land. It was fabricated in their
Renfrew shipyards!, dismantled
and shipped in sections to
Penang in the small steamer
Makambo, herself only recently
completed in Scotland for Burns
Philp’s South Seas trade, and
then on her maiden voyage. She
put the sections * ashore at Prye
River dockyard, on the main-
land opposite Penang Island,
early in 1907.
Two men experienced in gold-
dredging in Australia and New
Zealand, one (Harry Downie) to
be dredge-master and the other
assistant, together with two of
Capt. Miles’s sons, one to act
as secretary and the other as
“general rouseabout,” com-
pleted the staff of the company,
with Capt. Miles as general-
manager.
And now, with the dredge re-
constructed, the Unforeseen be-
gan to take a hand ; first in the
form of dual difficulties that had
not been counted on: No tug
was prepared to tow the dredge
on the sea trip to Puket Island,
and no insurance company
would take the risk of insuring
her!
Capt. Miles was nothipg it not
resourceful. He could do no-
thing about the insurance , if the
dredge could not sail insured she
would have to go uninsured, but
sail she would! He was a certifi-
cated master-mariner and would
tow her himself.
His Penang Chinese friends,
owners of several small coastal
steamers, told him to take any
one of them for the tow. He
chose the little Padang. She was
smaller than most of the others,
and many doubted whether she
was powerful enough for the
job, but Capt. Miles was confi-
dent. Speed was not essential;
if she could tow the dredge at
two or three knots that would
be sufficient.
+ +
The tow was expected to take
three or four days. On the
little Padang, as she slowly dis-
appeared into the gathering dark-
ness on that November after-
noon in 1907, Captain Miles had
with him one of his sons as
mate, the crew being Malay and
Chinese. The dredgemaster and
his assistant travelled on the
dredge along with a number of
Chinese mechanics.
There were two reasons for
the dredge going stern-first. One
was that the forward portion (it
could scarcely be called the bows
as she was square at both ends!)
was the weaker end. Further,
the dredge, being a flat-bottomed
pontoon, with no rudder, would
be likely to sheer quite a lot;
that is, first head perhaps right,
then swing back, remain steady
for a while and then swing left.
Capt. Miles in towing stem-
first foresaw the double advan-
tage: the stronger end of the
dredge meeting the seas; and,
the ladder with the buckets on
it being thus at the back, he
could lower it into the water
some 15ft. or 20ft. to act as a fin
or rudder. Although the trailing
ladder slowed down the tow con-
siderably it had the effect an-
ticipated ; the dredge, during the
whole of the tow, followed ap-
proximately in the wake of the
Padang.
The first night of the slow tow
was perhaps the most worrying,
with anxiety as to how the
dredge would behave, and a
stretch of comparatively open
sea to cross before they gained
the shelter of the Langkawi
Islands, some seventy miles from
Penang. Once they reached these
islands there were good anchor-
ages in the event of rough
weather coming on.
The dredge rolled a good deal
in the night, but the little Pa-
dang kept steadily on, and as
daylight broke the mountain
peaks of the Langkawi group
could be seen on the horizon,
still many miles off. Before the
day was out they reached the
shelter of the group. Capt.
Miles then set a course for Tong-
kah which, even if a few miles
longer, took him inside nume-
rous islands and within a few
miles of the west coast of the
peninsula, so that he could
readily obtain shelter.
On the morning of the fourth
day out from Penang, with the
island of Puket and Tongkah
Harbor from 30 to 40 miles
distant, it was time for the tow
to leave the shelter of the coast
and head west, crossing some 30
miles of virtually open sea.
Captain Miles looked anxiously
at the horizon as he changed
course for this last “leg.” The
barometer indicated a likely
break in the weather, but with
several hours of daylight ahead
of him and the little tug still
plugging away, he hoped to reach
Tongkah Harbor and safety be-
fore a storm came on.
They made it...but it was a
near thing! Less than an hour
after anchoring a terrific
thunderstorm broke, bringing in
its wake a very strong wind and
high seas. Had this storm struck
the Padang and her tow out at
sea—well, perhaps a very dif-
ferent story of the pioneering
days of tin-dredging would have
been written.
As he stepped from the bridge
of the Padang, his smallest and
last command, Captain Miles
probably little realised, optimist
though he was, that in bringing
this dredge safely to its destina-
tion, he was on the way to
creating an industry which was
to revolutionise tin-mining,
which, in a few short years, was
to Spread over the length and
breadth of the Malay Peninsula,
into which millions of pounds of
capital would be poured, and
from which fantastic dividends
would be paid.
While that remarkable tow
had been in progress a younger
son of Captain Miles (he was the
“rouseabout” already referred
to, and is, incidentally, the writer
of these notes) had been making
the necessary arrangements for
living-quarters, the water-supply
pipeline and the like at Tong-
kah. He was then only a lad of
18, but had been accustomed to
ships and boats all his life.
And now, with the dredge
safely there, problems of a dif-
ferent nature arose, which at
times seemed almost insur-
mountable. Not only did they
nearly drive us to distraction,
but the delay in reaching the
production-stage nearly wrecked
the venture financially. It was
only the indomitable will of the
founder, backed by the willing,
if inexperienced, assistance of
his staff, that pulled us through
in those early days.
The first essential for our
dredging was to “open up a
paddock” —excavating an area
sufficiently large to allow the
dredge to operate and gradually
work her way down to the tin-
bearing wash, approximately
30ft. below the sea-bed. This en-
tailed putting out five large
anchors, one ahead and one
from each quarter, or corner, of
the dredge. To these were fixed
strong wire ropes leading to our
steam winches. The wire ahead
of the dredge was perhaps
1000 ft., with an appropriately
large anchor ; the dredge more-
or-less “pivoted” on this anchor
and was pulled from side to side
by the other four wire ropes,
each about 500 ft. in length.
One. of the early troubles was
with these anchors, which proved
rather light for the job. This
was overcome by dropping two
or three tons of stone on each
anchor.
Mechanical troubles were fre-
quent and taxed the ingenuity of
the staff. We had no workshop,
and what could not be repaired
on board was taken to primitive
Chinese workshops ashore; if
beyond them to repair, the
broken part had to be sent to
Penang, which meant a delay of
a week or 10 days.
Before any tin could be re-
covered some 25ft. of “over-
burden” had to be removed over
the whole area of the “pad-
dock,” which was being exca-
vated perhaps 400 ft. wide by
130 ft. (the length of the dredge).
After perhaps two months’
work, with no tin, the financial
position became so critical that
the manager had to urge the
dredgemaster to try some
alternative method whereby the
tin-bearing wash could be
reached in the quickest possible
time and some tin produced.
The dredgemaster replied that
the only alternative method was
to endeavor to dig straight down
(Continued on page 30 )


Canyon tell
a‘big Scotch from a
‘smaW Scotch?
~bel£s
nunumuniM wii'i'Jl'lJJi
Ull'"
num/mi nn
l A* lO -
- ««th scoj ■
PRODUCT Of
We don’t mean, of course,
the difference between a
double and a single.
We mean the difference
between the ordinary
run of whiskies—and a
masterpiece such as
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
We of Bell’s are an
independent firm of
distillers—have been since
1825 when we started.
The output of Bell’s is not
huge. But to those who
know it, it is very, very
precious. At Bell’s,
generation after generation
have handed on their skill;
and this coupled with the
knowledge, almost the
intuition, of those who
make whisky ensures
that the barley, water and
peat, aided by the soft
Biighland air, go to make
a perfect whole. Try
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky—
and you will acknowledge
its magic mastery.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
c&i.
DISTILLERS Perth SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
The amazing
Mr. Doolittle
As the plane came in, a man
was actually riding under the
fuselage! It was that "fool”
Jimmy Dodlittle the stunt
pilot who later was to lead the
daring raid on Tokyo and head
the U.S. Apr Force in Europe
and Africa, and become one of
American aviation’s most spec-
tacular assets.
Reader’s Digest for June
brings you this great airman’s
dramatic —often fantastic —life
story in a 22-page condensation
of “The Amazing Mr. Doolittle”
—authored by famous war cor-
respondent Quentin Reynolds.
June Reader’s Digest brings
you this and JI2 other stimulat-
ing articles condensed from
world's leading magazines and
current best-selling books —for
only 1/6, at all newsagents and
bookstalls.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WAS CHURCHILL RIGHT?
After all the tumult of tre-
mendous cheering for the
Churchill speech advocating a
meeting of the top Western and
Russian leaders, one doubting
voice did manage to raise itself
in Britain —London “Econo-
mist,” calmly and dispassion-
ately dissecting the speech ; per-
haps a voice in the wilderness,
but a very strong one.
It pays the customary, well
deserved, tributes to the great
Prime Minister, and even calls
the speech “this wise and elo-
quent contribution to the inter-
national debate.” But then:
“It must in candor be said
that the more the specific con-
tent of the speech is examined,
the more doubts it arouses. Un-
doubtedly it was magnificent;
but was it policy?
“The general impression left
upon the public mind —on those,
that is to say, who never read
beyond the headlines—is that
Sir Winston Churchill thinks
there has been a sufficiently radi-
cal change in the attitude of the
rulers of Russia to make a per-
sonal meeting worth while, and
that from it might flow a genera-
tion of peace and amity. That
is not, of course, what he said.
But it is what a great many
people think he said, and the
flood of wishful-thinking can be
seen rising day by day. The
domestic political advantages of
creating such an impression are
clear enough. But is it not going
a bit too fast? Is it quite cer-
tain, or even more probable
than not, that Malenkov and his
colleagues want to start some-
thing new rather than to stop
the West from getting stronger?
“The question to be answered
is whether the proposal of a
conference with Malenkov is a
well-timed and essential part of
a piecemeal approach. To the
British Prime Minister it may
seem politically desirable, per-
haps even unavoidable. The de-
mand for it could easily be
fanned into flame both in Britain
and in Europe But if it is
politically undesirable —it looks
now impossible—for the Ameri-
can President, then the proposal
runs the risk of spoiling Anglo-
American understanding at a
time when it is being severely
tested in Korea, in Egypt and
in the vital matters of economic
policy.
“Sir Winston, it is true, is the
last man to be careless about
relations with the United States ;
and his speech stressed with the
utmost gravity the need for
‘unity, vigilance and fidelity’ in
the Western alliance. But the
suspicion remains that he has
not sensed the narrow limits
within which the United States
Government finds itself able to
Tmove, limits which appeared
quite clearly in the great speech
that the President had contri-
buted earlier to this springtime
debate. If in fact the only result
of making the proposal is, not
to get a meeting, but simply to
embarrass General Eisenhower,
was it worth making?
“It has to be asked, too.
whether the Prime Minister has
correctly assessed the effect of
his ideas in Europe, especially
in Germany. To Dr. Adenauer
he gave as emphatic and care-
fully worded a pledge as could
be given that a friendly settle-
ment with the Soviet Union
would not cause the British
Government ‘in any way to fail
in the obligations to which we
have committed ourselves about
Western Germany.’ That means,
or should mean, that German
unity remains the purpose of
British policy, that Western
Germany can win the status of
a Power by joining the Euro-
pean Defence Community, and
that the future of Germany’s
frontiers remains an open ques-
tion in face of Soviet insistence
hitherto that it is a closed ques-
St. Louis (U.S.A.) “Globe-Democrat”
AN OLIVE BRANCH-WILL IT GROW OR DIE?
tion. It is not difficult to
imagine the effect in France, and
in Germany itself, on the whole
movement towards the integra-
tion of Western Europe if the
next few months were taken up
with the preparations for, and
the consequences of, an informal
meeting between representatives
of the Big Four. A venture
which is already in distress
might well founder,...
“There is a risk, not yet
generally perceived, that talks at
the highest level this summer
would bring down in ruins the
Western defence structure or kill
all hopes of negotiations with
Moscow. For what is known of
Soviet terms for a German
settlement suggests that they ex-
clude any possibility of German
membership of a European and
Atlantic community....
“For this dilemma the Prime
Minister appears to have his own
solution. It is that there might
eventually be a new Treaty of
Locarno to establish confidence
between the Soviet Union and
a united Germany. This means
quite simply that some or all of
the Western Powers should
guarantee Germany against
attack by Russia or the satel-
lites, and Russia (and the satel-
lites?) against attack by a re-
united Germany. It sounds
attractive; but it begs every
question at issue....
“No freely-elected German
Government could possibly
accept the permanence of the
present German-Polish frontier,
the Oder-Neisse line, and any
Western Government that
guaranteed it would be asking for
trouble. But if not this line,
what other?
“Further, does Sir Winston
think that the American Con-
gress would ratify such a guaran-
tee? And would he have
Britain give it alone?
“It is, perfectly true that one
of the basic elements of the
European problem is the fear
felt in the Soviet Union that
German nationalism will feed
on the frontier grievance, and
it may be that the exorcising of
this fear is the major contribu-
tion that the West can bring to
the bargaining table. But there
are no short-cuts. Precisely be-
cause it is so all-important for
both sides, the German problem
can be solved only after a suffi-
cient degree of confidence has
been restored between Moscow
and the Western capitals. A
Locarno treaty will not create
this confidence; the confidence
must first be created before
either side will trust the signa-
tures of the other on such a
treaty....
“Not one of the statesmen
who would join Malenkov —or
whoever it might be from Mos-
cow —around a table would dare
to return empty-handed. They
could no more keep aloof from
specific issues than a historian
can keep aloof from facts. And
when it comes to issues, the
doubt must be expressed whether
the West is ready—whether its
policy for Germany is concerted,
whether it knows what it could
concede (for concessions there
will have to be); whether it
could and would keep the prob-
lems of Europe separate from
those of Asia ; whether its states-
men —especially President Eisen-
hower —would be given by public
opinion the confidence and dis-
cretion without which they
could not negotiate. If there is
no such readiness, or if readiness
varies from country to country,
then to try to go too fast might
well provoke such a display of
disunity between allies as would
make it unnecessary for Malen-
kov to stir a finger more.”
Suez Deadlock
The point of difference on
which Suez discussions broke
down, as summarised by “Man-
chester Guardian”:
“Both sides have reached the
point of contemplating a base
maintained by Egypt with the
assistance of British technicians.
But the British want the tech-
nicians to be permanent and
under British command; the
Egyptians want them to be
temporary and under Egyptian
command. The British believe
that a base wholly under
Egyptian control would not be
adequately maintained; the
Egyptians think that to leave
the technicians under British
command would simply perpetu-
ate British military occupation
in a disguised form.”
“To soldiers,” comments Lon-
don “Spectator,” “the aban-
donment of the base is a profes-
sional crime. Effective defence
of the Middle East in the event
of war is jeopardised, if not
made completely impossible.
The oilfields of the Persian Gulf
and the oil outlets in the Levant
are both rendered virtually de-
fenceless against an aggressive
Russian venture. And on top of
all this there would still be no
guarantee that the tremendous
sacrifice involved in uncon-
ditional British withdrawal
would in fact bring about a more
friendly attitude on the part of
Egypt to the West or secure that
cordial co-operation which the
Arab States generally are re-
puted to be willing to give in
return for Western assistance.
This price is too high to be
paid.”
The “Spectator” nonetheless
questions the need for maintain-
ing the base on its present vast
scale. Also it suggests that the
ability of Egyptian guerrillas to
make the British position very
uncomfortable, and even in the
long run untenable, should not
be treated too lightly.
On British-U.S. co-operation,
Edinburgh “Scotsman” reports
that Britaih had reached an
understanding with the Truman
Administration “on the indis-
pensable minimum conditions of
any arrangement” and “it was
agreed that Britain and the
United States should act to-
gether.” This still holds, and
“British negotiations are evi-
dently [still] working within a
framework agreed with the
United States,”
A Few Peace Hurdles
In case the meetings of world
leaders and the general opti-
mism about “receding war”
should be leading anyone to
envisage a quick end of the
cold war, with normal peace in
its place, London “Sunday
Times” lists an ominous number
of the hurdles to be got over:
1. There is deadlock oyer dis-
armament, and particularly
over international control of
atomic energy, at the United
Nations.
2. A fresh move for German
unity, with free elections as a
necessary condition, would im-
plicate the whole future of
European defence.
3. An Austrian peace-treaty
has been persistently obstructed
by Russia.
4. If such a treaty were con-
cluded, the Red Army should,
by Allied agreement, withdraw
from Rumania and Bulgaria.
5. Communist propaganda has
been fomenting anti-European
agitation in East Africa..
6. Middle Eastern problems
could be transformed in a new
atmosphere.
7. The war in Indo-China is
an openly Communist-backed
rebellion.
8. In Malaya, general peace
requires a complete ending of
the terrorist campaign.
9. A truce in Korea must
raise the question of American
recognition of the Peking Gov-
ernment, and of Chinese rep-
resentation at the United
Nations.
10. What then is the future
status of Chiang Kai-shek’s
regime?
11. Manchuria is a bone of
contention between China and
Russia.
12. Is Korea to become two
countries or one? And how is
democratic Korea to be guaran-
teed?
13. The U.S.S.R. is still tech-
nically at war with Japan, and
any Japanese peace-treaty raises
vital issues of freedom to arm,
etc.
Ike-Malenkov Meeting
The well-informed Washington
correspondents Joseph and
Stewart Alsop, who write as a
team, have reported in New York
“Herald Tribune” that plans for
an Eisenhower-Malenkov meet-
ing “are far enough advanced”
to have been discussed with
America’s allies.
The Eisenhower Administra-
tion, they added, wants a meeting
of East and West if one can be
arranged with any hope of suc-
cess:
“Actually, President Eisen-
hower has had it in mind to sit
down and talk matters over with
the Soviet rulers from the very
beginning. When British Prime


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... ... ... 2/,-
Yearty 22/6
Witness one of the worlds
&
<s
F®*
T*
'&
u
V*
*H£
*&
Kandyan chief and hk retinae
cm
4 3^tr\
At Kandy in August you
will be thrilled by the
most spectacular Buddhist pageant
in the world—the famous Perahera.
Hundreds of richly-caparisoned elephants;
thousands of flaming torches; the music of
tinkling cymbals; picturesque,
bejewelled dancers —truly awe-
inspiring splendour will
never forget for the rest
of your life.
Here is glamour at its grandest
—yet another reason why you
should holiday in the
supremely beautiful
Island of Ceylon.
m.
f
8
Free Literature and Maps
may be obtained from Australian Travel, Shipping and
Airline Agents or by writing direct to the Government
Tourist Bureau, Eastern Bank Building, Colombo.
CT.14.16
Minister Churchill made his fly-
ing visit to the U.S., Eisen-
hower broached the idea to him.
Churchill’s response was warmly
favorable, but he strongly
opposed any two-way Soviet-
American meeting on the
ground that this would shake
the confidence of America’s
allies.”
J. Bull "Ifs"
“If we can keep our nerve, if
we can keep together, and if in-
dustry on all sides does its best
to co-operate in increasing ex-
ports, and working together,
then I think we can get through.”
— Britain’s Chancellor of the
Exchequer, R. A. B. Butler, re-
viewing effects of U.S. economic
policy, including cuts in defence
aid.
But “if we drop the Chan-
cellor’s ‘ifs,’ ” comments Edin-
burgh “Scotsman,” “what
then?” The peril for Britain,
it adds, needs to be made very
dear to both sides in industry.
U.S. aid is being drastically
cut —even “defence aid” to
Britain is to be cut by half next
year: “The question which the
decision brings to the forefront
is whether the Western nations,
in the absence of other adjust-
ments in American economic
policy, will be strong enough to
withstand the increased strain
which the Cessation of American
economic aid will impose upon
them.
“In this country [Britain] the
consequences of a cut in assist-
ance in existing circumstances
cannot be reckoned simply in
terms of slowing down the rate
of progress. We have been doing
little more than making ends
meet, and the cut means that
the ‘margin of safety’ will be
appreciably narrowed. The
slightest fluctuation in American
buying of sterling-area products
—and in recent years we have
had bitter experience of that —
will put us in the red.
"In applying the reductions in
imports, the Conservative Gov-
ernment, like their Labor pre-
decessors, have sought to avoid
raw materials. But we have
now been cut so close to the
bone that it is open to question
whether any further economies
in our import bill which may be-
come necessary could avoid
raw materials. Such a step
would involve unemployment,”
Regarding “trade, not aid,”
the “Scotsman” fears that
Britain will get neither. It “re-
quires action on both sides of
the Atlantic, and happenings in
the U.S.A. are the reverse of
encouraging. The fact cannot
be disputed—and it is no use
beating about the bush —that the
Chief Joseph Dam contract
awarded to a British firm was
cancelled largely because of the
decision taken by the U.S. Ad-
ministration. ....
“While the Americans want
trade, it seems to be of a one-
sided nature —the imports they
are prepared to allow in are of
a type which will not compete
directly with American products.
Neither economic stability nor
security can be established on
such a basis.”
Tokyo Today
Reporting from Tokyo, a
correspondent of “U.S. News
and World Report” says there
is now almost no sign of the
terrific damage done there by
bombs and fire during the war :
“The wrecked factories have
either been torn down or re-
built. Block after block of the
thin-walled, one-story, cellarless
Japanese houses, burned to the
ground in air-raids, have sprung
up again right where they were
before, and as flimsy as ever,
“A walk through one of
Tokyo’s department stores—
comparable to the big ones in
New York and Chicago—is a
reminder that Japan is a modern
industrial nation. Everything
from hardware through clothing
London "News Chronicle"
“O WALL, FULL OFTEN HAST THOU HEARD
MY MOANS ...”
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream”
is available. Most of the items
are made in Japan. The variety
is incredible, notably in plastics
turned out by hundreds of small
firms; a dozen different kinds
of telephone-stands, for instance
—including one that pops out a
pad and pencil when you press
a button, and others that feature
handy lists of telephone-num-
bers and even a map of Tokyo.
“The map of Tokyo has a
special point. For, in the midst
of Japan’s industrial efficiency,
a map of Tokyo reveals what
must be close to the height of in-
efficiency. Most of Tokyo’s
streets have neither numbers nor
names, and the number on a
house has nothing to do with the
location of the house on the
street. House-numbers are
based on the date the house was
built in a particular area in
Tokyo. You find No. 34 on one
street and No. 35 a mile away
on another street. If No, 35 is
torn down and replaced it is
given the next number open—
No, 1569, maybe.
“During the Occupation the
military authorities put numbers
on the main streets, but not
always to advantage. There is
still one place where Seventh-
street crosses Seventh-street.
“There is this strange contra-
diction of inefficiency alongside
efficiency throughout Japan.
The railways, for example, are
magnificent spotlessly clean,
well maintained, the trains on
time to the dot. If a train is due
to leave at 9.37, it will leave at
9.37 whether the mail is loaded
or not. This is a little hard on
mail and baggage service, but
it’s impressive otherwise. In the
seven-hour trip from Tokyo to
Kyoto your train will probably
arrive at every station right on
the minute.
“The long-distance telephone
system, on the other hand, is a
mess. Calls are delayed for
hours. Conversations are cut
off sharp after three minutes
unless elaborate arrangements
have been made in advance for
a six-minute or nine-minute call.
You can travel by train to most
of Japan’s major cities quicker
than you can place a long-
distance call.
“ ‘Face’ is another baffling
thing in Tokyo. The taxi-driver
will tell your hotel doorman that
he knows exactly where you
want to go. He doesn’t, of
course. ‘Face’ makes him lay
he does. He will travel three or
four miles in the wrong direc-
tion before asking for advice,
He isn’t trying to run up the
fare, either. He may charge
only the normal fare. But he
simply can’t admit that he
doesn’t know something he
thinks you expect him to know,
“In industry Japanese
managers have learned never to
give their employees more than
one instruction at a time. ‘Face’
would lead the employees to
accept a long list of instructions
and go happily off saying yes,
they understood, when actually
they understood but a fraction
of them.
“At that, ‘face’ hasn’t pre-
vented Japanese industry from
rebuilding a city that lay in
ruins only eight years ago.
Tokyo, modern and Western, is
very much back on the map.”
If E.D.C. Fails
Supporting the European
Defence Community (pooled
army) as the present and
strongest hinge of U.S. policy
in that quarter, “New York
Times” says that the possibility
of its failure (through French
blockage) “has already prompted
consideration of available
alternatives, however feeble”:
“The situation might compel
the United States to return to its
own first proposal, which called
for a German national army
under Nato command.
“France would undoubtedly
like this even less than the
European-Army plan, and the
inevitable suspicions aroused by
a separate Germany Army
would not be conducive to
Atlantic unity in an emergency.
But it would be better than
nothing.
“The only other alternative is
retreat to a ‘peripheral’ defence
of Europe, which might have to
sacrifice everything east of the
Pyrenees and could only offer
Europe the hope of ultimate
liberation when little might be
left to liberate.
“The United States, the first
major Power in history to replace
the policy of ‘divide and rule’
with a policy of ‘unite and
survive,’ is willing to help to the
limit of its capacity. But in the
long run Europe can only be
defended by the Europeans, and
the Europeans must still demon-
strate that they have the will not
only to fight when necessary but
also to take the steps necessary
to make it possible for them to
do so with a chance of success.”
Various Voices
Chairman of Britain’s Wool
Industries Research Association,
L C. Hitt: “We are on the
threshold of an exciting period
of discovery, equipped with new
laboratories, many of the tools
of research, and a staff keen to
make the best use of them.”
Mrs. Fanny Holtzmann
(.American woman lawyer):
“Hallmark of the American
executive is the ulcer. To be a
real success you have to have
had three.”
Sir Winston Churchill: “I do
not think, looking back over the
long period in peace and war,
that I have ever, so far as I had
anything to say in matters, been
willing to accept complete initi-
ative from the United States,”
Thomas E. Murray (member
of the U.S. Atomic Energy
Commission): “Atomic power
without knowledge in the people
points only to a ghastly end,
once and for all proving, in the
words of Socrates, that there
is ‘one only evil, namely, ignor-
ance.’ ”
Tito (asked in an interview if
he thought the new Soviet line
was a manoeuvre): “All these
changes which have taken place
after Stalin’s death show that
the Soviet leaders now respon-
sible for both internal and
foreign policy in Russia have
come to a conclusion that this
is the proper time to get out of
the deadlock created in Stalin’s
time. Whatever they say, what-
ever they write, the fact is that
what they are trying to do is in
itself a denial of Stalin’s whole
policy up to this time. They
are trying to find a neVv positive
form to calm down their in-
ternal situation and to find some
way to approach the outside
world. At the present it seems
most important to wait for a
while, see how things develop
in Moscow. It would be wrong
to say that it is just a manoeuvre,
just as it would be wrong to say
that it is a complete change in
policies as applied to date. The
future will show us that. I
wouldn’t like to pose as a
prophet.”
Lord Leconfield: “You can-
not be a settler in South Africa,
or in Africa generally, for five
minutes without realising your
complete dependence on the
African. Without the African
the white European can do no-
thing.”
Adenauer: “I do not con-
sider this development of a
European union necessary only
because of the danger threaten-
ing from the East. I think it is
good and desirable because it
will free new creative forces now
shackled by our heritage of fear
and distrust. It will open the
way for cultural development,
for the social welfare of every-
one, and for a lasting assurance
of peace and freedom.”
Vyshinsky: “If we dig the
tunnel of friendship from both
ends we are likely to meet earlier
half-way.”
Leading Canadian Stdtesman,
George Drew: “It is clear that
panada can support a very large
population with increasing pros-
perity and economic stability
for every part of our country.
Increased population offers the
one sure way of establishing a
broad, firm, national economy.
We have the minerals to sup-
port far greater industrial pro-
duction. We have the power.
We have the skill. If we decide
to use all these resources with
Canadian development as our
first consideration, then there is
no reason why Canada should
not have a population of 30 mil-
lion by 1975, and more than
twice that number by the year
2000.”


The ASSN!
\m
PAIN
3W
9.
HANDS • WRISTS
ELBOWS • SHOULDERS • HIPS
KNEES • ANKLES • FEET
No matter how much or how long you
have suffered, no matter what you
have tried before, do not give up
hope. COLCHISONE, the sensational
English pale blue pills, will bring
yOU the relief you seek. For ailments
of the Rheumatic group—Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Fibrositis, Lumbago and
Gout—there is no substitute for this
outstanding treatment. Proved first in
England and now here in Australia,
COLCHISONE is bringing a new life
to hundreds of thousands—a life free
from the crippling pain of stiff,
swollen joints and limbs.
COLCHISONE
From your chemist
with food chart.
PRICE: 17/6 Small
30/- Large
If you have any difficulty In obtaining supplies, write to
Rickard Medical Products Pty. Ltd., 21 Oxford Street, Sydney.
fiW/T'OOD heavens! Stop, will
you!”
Norma controlled her most
recent spasm and tilted the spout
of the kettle towards the alu-
minium teapot.
“Mu-um,” wheedled Cecily,
“can I have a lamin’ton?”
“You can not .” The Jaming-
tons were a real luxury. “Ella,
can’t you be some help, instead
of sitting there? Get the cups
out.”
Ella, with a nun-like com-
placence, shut off from the vul-
garities of the world, forsook
her lemonade and rose and
drifted to the dresser. Under-
neath the clatter of the chipped
and fading-floral cups Cecily,
with a well- laundered deception,
spoke again.
“Mum, Alice’d like a lamin’-
ton. Wouldn’t you, Alice?”
. Alice, playing the game, gave
a short starched nod and
quickly poked the last of the
bread-and-dripping into her
mouth, so that she could not
be accused of already having
a “sore-hand.” The strategy
lapsed. Mrs. Baldock ignored it
and outflanked and moved in
behind’ them with a fearful
ordnance.
“Off to your homework, both
of you. And Cecily —as both
girls departed pout-lipped for the
dining-room, where, when Mrs.
Baldock had left for her housie,
they would play checkers —“If
I get another report from school
like the last one I’ll thrash you
till you’re blue, and you can
stay at home, Alice.”
Cecily flounced off insubor-
dinately. Mrs. Baldock poured
herself a cup of tea. “Those
kids!”
“Hey, Mum,” called Cecily
from the dining-room.
“Yes?”
“How do you spell desp’rate?”
“How should I know!” ex-
claimed Mrs. Baldock, but
ventured it, nevertheless. “D-e-s-
-p-e-r-a-t-e, I suppose.”
“That’s right,” said Cecily.
Alice gurgled.
VARS. BALDOCK grunted,
drank the last of her tea,
stood up from the cluttered
table and, pulling her skirt
straight, dusted it with the edge
of her hand. “Norma, get my
purse. It’s upstairs. Ruth, don’t
keep that Emerson here tonight.”
“He’s all right,” said Ruth,
helping Ella clear away the tea-
things.
“Well, I don’t like him.”
“I do.”
“Don’t be impertinent.”
“I’m not.”
“You are.”
“No, I’m not.”
“Oh, all right.”
Mrs. Baldock resignedly lit a
cigarette, drew deeply and then,
refreshed, called towards the
stairway, “Can’t you find it?”
“Give me time, give me time.”
Norma, from somewhere in one
of the bedrooms, threaded the,
stairway with a thin petulance.
“Ella, you and Ruth do some-
thing about the mess in this
kitchen. And keep that hound
outside.”
George had just galloped in
from the lounge and began to
cough enterically underneath the
table.
“Houtside houtside hout-
side,” huffed Ruth rhythmically.
Her absorption with the dog
gave her the chance to pass over
Mrs. Baldock’s order concerning
the kitchen. Let Ella tidy the
kitchen. She had cooked the
tea.
Norma tramped down the
stairs, holding out the purse to
Mrs. Baldock. “If you can’t win,
for heaven’s sake, Mum, stay
sober.”
“Hold your tongue.”
“Well, you know how touchy
the boss is lately at work. He’ll
give you the sack, and then
what?”
“I’m quite capable of looking
after myself, thank you.”
Mrs. Baldock, for a second,
actually looked prim. This filial
concern affronted the sense of
dignity she luxuriated in at
times. “Ruth, put that dog out.
Ella, make a move. Cecily, get
on with your homework.”
“Yes, Mum.”
Mrs. Baldock was now at the
front door and, with a flourish,
she opened it. The night and
the stillness of the suburb flowed
into the tenement. The door
closed with a jar, a rattle of the
lock, and a scrape of the bell.
A SECOND later the doorbell
chimed. Cecily and Alice,
setting up the checkers-board,
preferred not to heed it.
“Open this door,” yelled Mrs.
Baldock, “and fetch me my
cigarettes.”
The checkers-board was hastily
dissembled and, among fumb-
lings, stricken whispers and
quick breathing, disappeared
beneath the couch.
Alice retrieved the cigarettes
from the kitchen table, tarried
while Ella, with a commonplace,
untheatrical movement, possessed
herself of three of them, and
scampered to the door.
Mrs. Baldock, when the door
opened for her, took the cigar-
ettes and dispensed a peremptory
benediction.
“Bless you.”
The door closed again, and
the checkers-board reappeared.
The single corner light sought
out Mrs. Baldock as she walked
along the street, her feet clack-
ing awkwardly but resonantly in
their very high-heeled shoes.
The light, like a luminous yellow
tide, found her, and she waded
into it, her shadow, as if from a
dully transparent depth, blotchily
miming her progress. She and
her shadow turned sideways as
she neared Number Twenty-
seven. A light shone through
its window. Mrs. Evans was in.'
Mrs. Baldock knocked on the
door and idly waited.
Ruth, as she combed her hair
in front of the old cracked
mirror hanging on the wall near
the stove, faintly heard the
knock. The Baldocks’ house was
quiet now, except for the tumble
of checkers on their board and
an occasional sigh from Ella sit-
ting again on the stool.
Norma had taken another fit
of snivelling to bed.
TWO figures, exchanging nods
and chuckles, high-heeled
and hugging purses, waded to-
wards the corner light from the
direction of Number Twenty-
seven.
A tram was running past the
church and the doctor’s place
and the school. Its screwing
sound bored through the brick
walls of the tenements and came
out, ludicrously thin and small,
like a tiny whine, in the dead-
end street.
his concurrence or knowledge
or consultation with other Gov-
ernments concerned, which
“popped noisily into the Pacific
scene.” Mr. Hasluck remarks
that “the current course of Aus-
tralian policy as being applied in
Tokyo, London and Washington
was to try, if possible, to per-
suade Japan that her best in-
terests lay in the solution of her
problems by peaceful methods
... . What the Curtin-Fadden-
Beasley statements demon-
strated was that Australia was
worried and fearful —a piece of
evidence that was not likely to
do much either in dissuading or
warning a potential aggressor.”
Actually there was no real
danger of major war in the
Pacific until Hitler obligingly
pulled Russia off Japan’s neck by
his attack of June 22, 1941.
Certainly the brigade of troops
which we prepared to send to
Malaya would have had no de-
terrent effect upon a nation with
73 divisions of troops and overall
naval and air superiority in the
Pacific.
What evidence there is of the
effect of the Curtin moves is that
they added considerably to the
encouragement of Japan to
move southward and
strengthened the belief of some
of her extremist leaders that war
against the United States and
Britain was inevitable and neces-
sary.
This phase Mr. Hasluck does
not discuss.
through the remaining over-
burden until tin was reached,
with grave danger of the ladder
and buckets being buried by a
fall of earth. The risk had to
be taken. One fall did occur,
too, and after all known methods
had been tried to free the ladder,
Malay divers were engaged to
dig the material out by hand
and send it up in buckets! This
mishap cost another 10 days’
delay which we could ill afford.
By now the manager had be-
come the target for criticism
from mining engineers, who
were watching operations very
closely, and were sure the new-
fangled idea would not work!
Also, the company’s directors
in Tasmania were becoming
restless, and were constantly
writing making suggestions and
asking questions, which had to
be replied to by the manager,
who was already working about
16 hours a day.
The crowning disaster of all
occurred just when we were
looking forward to our first
clean-up of tin-ore. The “patent
tin-saving tables” with which
the dredge had been specially
equipped were, to put it mildly,
a failure.
Here we were with tin in sight
and apparently no means of
saving it! A conference was
called and various solutions
offered, none of which appeared
satisfactory. Then the Chinese
overseer in charge of the coolies
on the tin-saving side offered a
suggestion. He had seen the
tin-bearing gravels coming up
in the buckets ; they were exactly
the same type of gravels he had
been accustomed to treating
ashore ; he was satisfied “we had
the goods.” He knew nothing
of patent tin-saving tables, but
if the manager was prepared to
scrap these tables he would
guarantee to put in two launders,
or schutes, on each side of the
dredge, similar to those used for
tin-saving ashore, which would
save all the tin the dredge could
dig.
It was a tough decision for
the manager to make —to scrap
the tables designed for the job
and substitute something recom-
mended by a Chinese coolie, with
no technical training but plenty
of practical experience.
We had. Captain Miles
pointed out, no steel-plates for
making launders; what did the
overseer propose to use? The
prompt reply was “Wood!”
The decision was made. Out
came the tables, quite a “major
operation,” the wooden launders
being meanwhile prepared
ashore.
This episode of the launders
occurred in December, 1907,
and the rush job to get the work
completed and the dredge run-
ning again carried us over
Christmas. At this time we had
a very good staff of Indian
house-servants, who, knowing it
was our festive season, prepared
a suitable Christmas-dinner for
us and decorated the house with
palm-leaves and other greenery.
A midday dinner was not pos-
sible, so it was arranged that our
“party” would be at the evening
meal.
I, being the youngest member
of the staff, was looking forward
to this dinner with perhaps more
enthusiasm than the rest. We
were all working on the dredge,
and when it was long past the
usual evening-meal hour I ven-
tured to remind the manager that
it was Christmas Day and that
the servants had a special meal
waiting for us and would be
disappointed if we were late. I
was bustled back to my job.
An hour or so later, driven
this time by the pangs of hunger,
I tried again, but with no better
success! Eventually we arrived
back at our bungalow at one
o’clock (1 a.m.) on Boxing Day
morning! After a bath and a
change we sat down to our
Christmas dinner amidst the
decorations, with “A Merry
Christmas” formed in greenery
across the table. A wonderful
meal was served just as if it had
been at the usual hour, with no
comment or suggestion from the
servants that they had been wait-
ing for about six hours for our
arrival.
The dredge changeover at last
completed, we got going again
about New Year’s Day, and in
a few days were down on to tin-
bearing gravels once more. The
Chinese overseer had his gang
of coolies with their long-
handled hoes ( changkols ) work-
ing in the launders, keeping the
gravels moving and putting in
“stops” (wooden riffles), as re-
quired, to retain the tin.
Eventually, on a well-remem-
bered day—January 6, 1908 —
we had our first clean-up, amidst
great excitement of the staff,
both European and Asiatic. It
wasn’t much, six piculs (about
7cwt.), but as we dried it and
weighed if in our tin-dressing
shed ashore it might have been
gold for the pride we took in it.
By the end of January we had
recovered 20 tons of tin-ore.
The future of the company was
assured. By 1911 there were
six dredges working in the har-
bor, all built out of profits; a
wonderful achievement in three
years.
In order to retain historical
accuracy, it is as well to record
that the dock and channel, the
cornerstone of the original con-
cession, were never completed.
Some years after Captain Miles
severed his connection with it
the company came to an
arrangement with the Siamese
Government and paid £50,000
in cash to be relieved of that
obligation. Consequently the
harbor and docking facilities at
Puket today are far worse than
they were in 1906.
Captain Miles lived to a ripe
old age, dying in 1944 at the
age of 95. He thus lived to see
what he had pioneered grow
and expand until it became the
chief method of tin-production,
with approximately 130 dredges
at work in Malaya and Siam in
1941, some of them large
enough to take the original
Tongkah Harbor No. 1 dredge
on deck.
The next year, 1942, was to
see the almost total obliteration
of the industry by the Japanese
invasion and 'occupation. This
was, of course, a great grief to
the old pioneer, but he was con-
fident, although he did not live
to see the end, that the eclipse
was only temporary.
In the last discussion the
writer had with him on the sub-
ject he concluded his remarks
with a very determinedly
expressed “We shall oust them
again!”
THE MEMORY
The memory is of grass like a green pond
And of the scent of melons between a drought
and the rain.
It was autumn and the tides were always going out
And all the moons were yellow.
It was a gentle time without rage or anxiety
As we waited for the flames to die
And for the wax to crust on the altar
And for the last petals to lie
On the marble and gilt
And for the singing to end
And for the prayersi to fail, again.
N.S.W.
ELIZABETH RIDDELL.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
Missing Friend
IF MARGARET WILKINSON, ANNIE
CAHILL, ELIZABETH (nee ROBINSON)
MARY JANE ROBINSON, possibly of Syd-
ney or Newcastle, and GEORGE SIMPSON
ROBINSON, of Western Australia, or
their respective children, being relatives
of JOHN BAILEY ROBINSON, who left
Pit-Town, Wallsend, Newcastle, for New
Zealand about 62 years ago, communicate
with the DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE;
P.O. Box 429, Dunedin, New Zealand, they
might hear something to their advantage.
3
■
mm
m
$4
m
m
■
m.
i
Not words but deeds have made Mobile© a mighty name. This is ROUGH COUNTRY you
see in this picture . . . hilly, rugged and with plenty of bracken and scrub . . . but it's taken
in its stride by Mobilco. See the nice clean cut left by this Mobilco Bush King as it swings
away from a job well done. At the turn of a lever the blade will be vertical and the
operator ready to go on with a quick job of cross cutting without wasting a minute. This
is the machine for you . . . Because of its clean-cut, lightweight, rugged, commonsense
construction . . . Because of its true 7 BMP, air cooled, 4-stroke engine . . . Because of its
patented swivel chassis design which prevents jamming in rough country (blade swings
through the cut but wheels don't move) . . • Because it is the basis of a clearing, timber
getting, fencing system (Mobilco's 7 quick-change-in-the-Bush 7 Attachments include Drag Saw,
Cross-cutting Bench, Ripping Bench, Ripping Leg, Post Hole Digger and Electric Post Borer
. available whenever you want them to fit to your Mobilco in a matter of minutes). Yes
Mobilco has all you want plus a six months 7 guarantee and handy easy-to-arrange time
payment for those who want to pay as they earn.
If you don't know of a Mobilco In your own district write to us straight away and
we'll tell you where you can see one really earning its living .. . and it won't be far
away from you no matter where you live.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47-SOUTH PARADE, GAMPSiE. PHONE: LF4209 - - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
agents - - all main towns in Australia
mm
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Such Is Life by
“Tom Collins” (Joseph Furphy).
5512.
Schoolboy, Sydney, wants photo-
graphs from newspapers and maga-
zines of Australian authors for a
school project.—ssl3.
Information Sought
Rules for treatment of a turf
wicket during a cricket match ?
The M.C.C. Law of Cricket No. 9
provides that: “The ground shall not
be rolled, watered, covered (except
during rain), mown or beaten during
a match, except before the commence-
ment of each innings and each day’s
play, when, unless the in side objects,
the ground shall be swept and rolled
for not more than seven minutes.”
Responsibility for rolling of the pitch
before play rests with the umpire.
* * * *
Information on pollination of
pumpkins ?
Natural pollination is carried out
by bees, who transfer the pollen from
the male flower to the stigma of
the female flower. If pollination is
not effected, the embryo pumpkin
turns yellow and finally drops off the
plant. This may be prevented by
artificial pollination; the male flower
can be brushed over the stigma of
the female, or the pollen of the male
may be transferred by a camel-hair
brush to the stigma of the female.
Most suitable time for this is in the
early morning. Male flowers may be
distinguished from the female by their
long stems; the female has a shorter
stem and carries the embryo pumpkin.
* * * *
How to cure snakeskins?
Soak in cold water for a few hours
until quite soft, then scrape the back
to remove any flesh or fat. Rub
alum into skin and soak for eight
hours in a liquor composed of 2oz.
powdered alum, loz. salt, 1 gallon
water. Afterwards wash thoroughly,
mix fresh liquor and soak for another
eight hours. Scales should then be
pressed down; a household wringer
or mangle will do. Roll from the
base of scales to the tips. Stretch
out to dry in a cool place, fastening
with a tack every 3in. on each side.
* * * *
Is it true that after the black has
been bred out as the result of inter-
marriage between a white and an
aborigine there is no chance of a
sudden return to black?
In the case of a full-blooded white
and a full-blooded aborigine “throw-
backs” may occur over long periods,
the exact period not being known,
owing to the sorting-out and re-
combination of color genes. A true
dark-skinned child will be produced
only if both parents carry some dark-
skin genes. This scientific fact dis-
poses of the belief that a woman
with hidden aboriginal blood, pass-
ing as a white woman, may unex-
pectedly bear a coal-black child to a
white father.
♦ * * *
(1) Some information on D, H.
Souter, the Bulletin artist? (2) Did
he achieve fame as a watercoior
artist ?
(1) A stocky, humorous Aberdonian
(born 1862), he studied art, then in
1881 went to Natal, engaging in
journalism there, and came to Sydney
1886. In 1892 he began contributing
drawings to The Bulletin, and for
over 40 years had a drawing in nearly
every issue. In 1896 he introduced
the famous Souter cat as a blob of
black-and-white to fill up an empty
space in a confection titled “The
Bride’s First Pie.” (The cat’s original
was a real one which had strayed into
the Souter household.) From 1904
to 1911 Souter was art editor of
“Art and Architecture,” and in his
later years was on the editorial staff
of “Country Life.” He was an
original member and one-time presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Royal Art Society.
Besides his black-and-white work, he
wrote short stories, verse, light articles
and plays. His last drawing in The
Bulletin was in the issue of Sept.
25, 1935—three days after he died
(Sept. 22, 1935). (2) He did a fair
amount of watercolor-painting, and
10 of his watercolors were shown at
the Society of Artists’ exhibition,
Melbourne, 1907. His reputation,
however, rests on his black-and-white
work.
Brief Answers
F.G.: “Writers’ World,” pub-
lished by G. R. Pitta Way, Box 28,
380 Collins-street, Melbourne....
P. 8.: Write Director of Employment,
Box 2817 a, G.P.0., Melbourne, Vic.
A.M.H.: In Etiquette for Aus-
tralians, Noreen Routledge says: “To-
day many married women and widows
prefer their own Christian-names on
their cards and in their letter
addresses. This is contrary to the
strict rules of etiquette, which demand
that the husband’s name should be
used” Veteran: Arthur Mailey
played in 10 Tests against England
in Australia (he played in 18 Tests
v. England in all). His averages in
the 10 Tests in Australia are —Bat-
ting, 17 innings, 7 not out, highest
score 46 n. 0., total 181, av. 18.1;
bowling, 487 overs, 48 maidens, 60
wkts. for 1945 runs, av. per wkt.
32.4. Averages for each series not
available... .E.S.H.: The building is
probably “Richmond Cottage,” said
to have been erected before the
newer portion of N.S.W. Parliament
House (Parliament House consists of
two sections, an old section originally
portion of the old “Rum Hospital’
erected by Macquarie, and a new
portion) was built. It is believed to
have been built as a residence for
the Lieutenant-Governor. The last
Lieutenant-Governor who used it was
Sir Maurice O’Connell H.W.: The
Charles Eaton, a barque from Sydney
to Singapore, was wrecked on Great
Barrier Reef, near Sir Charles Hardy
Island, in August, 1834. Five men
in a boat arrived in Timor; 25 of the
remaining people were murdered by
natives and only two boys spared.
These were rescued on Murray Island
by the Isabella, August, 1836....
D.S.: Write D. Raymond, Numis-
matist, 128 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
I.McD.: Lord Huntingfield is
still alive; he is 70 and now lives
in England. By his first wife he has
two sons and two daughters; there
are no children of his second
marriage (his second wife died in
recent weeks).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
L.M.: By the time you have pushed
it about to get your effect it is all
ground up into dust F.L. de B.:
Occasionally we still get a story about
World War I, but Caesar’s blitz on
England is a bit far back for us.
M.V.: Only bureaucrats can
treat the Little People with big words.
G.S.: Can’t have Greek gods
seeking refuge in Australia—we have
enough problems of religious pre-
cedence as it is... .B.B.: We suspect
that you don’t know what really
happened... .H.R.: Reads _ like a
League team playing a Union team
with an Australian Rules referee
E.M.R.: You don’t make anything
of it E.L.H.: Sorry yet again
H.D.: Not for u5....M.0.: A bit
light for us; might do elsewhere
M.C.: Across the oceans we say to
you N 0.... M. 8.: Superficial... •
R.0’8.: Well, he’s dead n0w....
A.W.: Nothing happened; nothing
doing... .T.L.M.: Some other paper
might print it. —D.J.H.: Could have
happened, but not like that....
V.M.C.: “Is there any improve-
ment?” Well, it’s not bad, but it
tells an old story without adding any-
thing new J.A.: You’ve improved
it, but it just lacks that freshness
and tone that makes all the difference.
L.L.R.: We regret that a prior
engagement prevents us from
accompanying you on your journey.
A.M.: Slight.... M. 8.: Your
story stole a pig and ran on anc
on and 0n....H.8.: Too realist tc
be sentimental* and too sentimental
to be realist... .E.M.: Good story,
some other paper might take it
H.C.; You have to be a reporter tc
master their peculiar way of thinking
... .C.: You strive too hard... •
E.H.A.: Not bad, but not quite.
C.M.B.: It was all as vague as
the lecture... .P.K.F.: Instead oi
grief you present a bucket of tears
E.C.: Surely gardening-notes are
lush enough, without being done into
fairytales... .P. 8.: Too complicated
for us A.R.: When there is a
choice we prefer not to get into the
soul of a boy-sadist who cuts cats’
throats and strangles little girls; such
things half-justify George Moores
contention that no good story could
be made out of crime... .L.H.C.:
Might go elsewhere C.W.S.:
Sorry; not quite strong enough
E.F.M.: Just as well you don’t turn
Grimm’s fairytales into Australian
very well; otherwise we might have
fallen for them.


THE
New Steel fence
POST
STRONG
★
DURABLE
★
INEXPENSIVE
I
4 f
&
■
L?
v*
7
AlWallbank
® SHAPE: The special flange section gives
tremendous strength to the post and holds
the ground well. It is the same width
from top to base except for a precision
die cut centred point. The wider fin has
the drillings.
® STEEL: The right quality for posts, made
from 3in. by gin.
• PAINT: Rustproof paint, smooth and
non-stichy.
9 NESTING: The posts nest well for packing
and space saving.
SIZE: Standard sft. 6in.—for 9 wire
fence with new popular spacing. A It
Notch in top, then 1 Jin., 4 Jin., 4 Jin., **/ W
7in., 6in., 6in., sin., 4in., 4in.
Weight: Approx. 320 to ton.
SIZE: sft. I in. for 7 wire fence, with
the new popular spacing. Notch in M ft)
top, then I in., 9in., 7in., 6in., sin., tL
sin., 4in., Weight: Apprtox. 345 to ton.
PHO^
C A'-'“
OR
*T
YARDS: 7ft. 6in. post to take 36in., 42in. M / 11
and lira. Netting. (Prices F.O.R. Lidcombe, N.S.W.) 0/ I I
K.cA. IfIIRD
313 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. C 3541
256 FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE. W 2326
1 BOND STREET. SYDNEY. 8U2614
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
PRICE
£75
Weight
76Ibs.
i.
mm**
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting' Shearers*
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
HORSE RUGS
Made from'l2oz. Dunk Canvas. Proofed.
Check Lined. Leg Strap Fittings and
Surcingle.
Colours: Khaki or Greeu
5’ 104/-, 5’6” 112/6,
5’ 9” 116/6, 6’ 121/6,
6’ 6” 125/-
m
vW
ffi
POSTAGE FREE
Throughout New South Wales
Postage to Queensland, Victoria and
Tasmania, 2/- extra on each rug.
Please add exchange to Country
cheques.
Rugs can be sent 0.0. D. if required.
JOHN CHARLTON & CO.,
71-73 Sailors Bay Road,
Northbridge, Sydney, N.B.W.
KIEV mom SAFE)
SANDERS
ILE^
Correspondence. I dvolcm.
m
m
•tenements, etc.. Died to the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into o
perfect book of reference Art
(he end of each icentb —•*
any other period.
Price* and far-
ther infonaatior
■ pate cppiieattof
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Im
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Au»t>
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Inbreeding
“Oxo”: L. T. Sanderson, of
Wallah Aberdeen-Angus stud,
Narrabri (N.S.W-.), whose cham-
pion bull. Wallah Vernon, was
inbred to Embassy sth of
Mangatoro (imp. N.Z.), holds
that inbreeding is neither waste-
ful nor expensive, provided the
sire is good and the selection
careful.
Replying to geneticists’ claims
that “inbreeding produces too
many very bad ones with the
very good ones,” Sanderson
states that of 20 inbred bulls
at Wallah only three were culls.
He agreed with some geneticists
that inbreeding should be
approached with great caution,
but he thought the time must
come, when a herd reached a
high standard, that inbreeding
must be used to retain the main
essentials.
His reason for wishing to
strengthen the blood-lines of
Embassy sth was chiefly be-
cause the bull had in himself
a highly desirable fleshing
quality, which he passed on to
his stock. His other great virtue
was his ability to get quite a lot
of bulls better than himself.
Sanderson mated Wallah
Ottoman with the bull’s half-
sisters because Ottoman had all
the desirable qualities of Em-
bassy sth, and was better in
any parts where Embassy sth
showed a weakness. He had
chosen only the male progeny
rrom the inbreeding programme,
as it,was easier to assess the
value of the bulls. These had
mostly been exposed for sale,
whereas the females had mostly
been retained, and the only
guide to their standards would
be his judgment, which might
be open to criticism.
The 20 inbred bulls to Otto-
man could be classed as: three
suitable for use as stud sires,
five to sire special herd-bulls,
nine to sire good-quality herd-
bulls and three culls. Two of the
three culls came from the same
mother obviously a very
unsuitable mating.
Sanderson assesses bulls
selling between 250 and 400gns.
as suitable for breeding herd-
bulls, and those selling between
100 and 200gns. as good-quality
herd-bulls. On this assessment
the 20 inbred bulls to Ottoman
were good and not costly, but
he gave great credit to the fact
that Ottoman himself was a
very outstanding bull, who
passed on his lovely fleshing
qualities to many of his progeny.
The Feed’s the Thing
“Outback”; R. S. Wilson, the
Calliope (Gladstone, N.Q.)
cattle-breeder and -judge, agrees
with Dr. Franklin (C.5.1.R.0.)
that geneticists should take a
holiday until more is known
about animal nutrition. If cattle-
men had the answer to their
feeding problems, he said, they
would have no difficulty in
marketing cattle at younger
ages.
This suggested that there was
nothing much wrong with the
breeds the much-maligned show-
system had evolved. They were
productive enough when cor-
rectly fed, as fat-cattle results at
Sydney and Brisbane Shows
proved. Wilson challenged any-
one to reproduce these results
with any breed, strain or mixture
of breeds unless the correct
grazing was available. His ex-
perience covered commercial as
well as stud cattle, and all he
had had to go on was his own
mistakes and those of others.
If a geneticist had a secret gene
for an animal which would give
comparable results under a low
plane of nutrition as under a
high one, he would be the
greatest benefactor the industry
in Australia had had.
Wilson pins his faith to nutri-
tion, and he believes, at this
stage, that more can be expected
from pasture-research workers
than from geneticists. The re-
cent C.5.1.R.0. announcement
that trace-element research
would enable Queensland to
carry 25 million cattle compared
with the present total of six
million confirms that belief.
Extra Room
“B-herd”; A strange trait of
bees is the fact that they have
to be introduced to new super-
room. The enthusiast, checking
carefully on progress during the
honey-flow, decides it is time
to add an extra super of founda-
tion, does so, then finds a week
't so later that the bees don’t
know or don’t care about the
extra storage-space. This doesn’t
apply to a super of “stickies,”
because by the time the bees
have cleaned them out and got
them ship-shape they’ve accepted
the extra space and will pro-
ceed to use it.
Best way to work-in founda-
tion to the populous colony is
to alternate the frames with
those of brood and honey. The
bees are forced to accept and
work on them then to restore a
normal condition' among the
brood-frames. Raise the honey-
frames into the third deck and
keep the foundation in the
middle of the hive. Don’t set it
in the bottom box at any time,
for the bees will always leave a
half-inch space between the
foundation and the bottom bar
of the frame when drawn out
in the bottom box.
They appear to look upon this
as travel-space, and this kind
of comb is bad to handle
when uncapping and otherwise
manipulating and, worse, usually
breaks down when migrating the
hive over long, rough journeys.
Bees seem to be reluctant, more-
over, to extend these unattached
combs when finally raised into
the supers.
Both extra space and founda-
tion represent a waste of time
during the period when the bees
are merely “sittin’.”
Ewes and Lambs
“C.H.”; When ewes are in
lamb reduce the feed ration to
prevent them becoming too fat.
Three weeks before lambing
place them in paddocks carrying
good pastures. These methods
reduce the possibility of sleeping-
sickness common to ewes badly
fed before lambing and result in
them producing half a pound
more wool per head.
Autumn lambs do best on
pasture about 6in. high; hay
stubble and red clover help their
development. If this feed is not
available distribute the sheep
thinly over the good paddocks.
Placing large numbers on
rapidly-growing pastures can
result in big losses when sick-
ness breaks out.
Citrus Collar-rot
“Myrr”; A citrus-tree yellow-
ish on one side should receive
prompt and close inspection,
particularly where the trunk
enters the soil. If the bark is
cracked there, it’s a fair indica-
tion that collar-rot has set in.
There may be a considerable
exudation of gum.
G. W. Gayford, in the Vic.
“Journal of Agriculture,” points
out that the disease is favored
by a poorly-drained soil. Cen-
tral drainage-furrows between
the trees assist in the removal of
surplus water, while underground
tile drains take care of any
excess in the trees’ root-zone.
The trouble is encouraged if soil
is ploughed on to the trunk or
by piling poultry or stable
manure around it.
Then there are susceptible
trees: lemons on citronelle or
rough lemon rootstock, for
example, are more likely to get
collar-rot than those on sweet or
sour orange. Trifoliata is highly
resistant.
A diseased tree may be saved
(provided it has not been com-
pletely ringbarked) by cutting
away decayed bark and painting
the wound with Bordeaux paste
consisting of of bluestone
and 21b. of slaked lime in a
gallon of water.
Good Summer Grass
“Kiwi”; Tests over the past
ten years with Phalaris tuberosa
in the Hawkes Bay area of New
Zealand have proved that once
established it flourishes in dry
summers when other grasses and
clovers are burnt out by the heat.
The tests also showed that, in
the growing period, Phalaris
outstrips perennial ryegrass, but
when intermixed with it is
smothered at the start and a poor
stand results.
Phalaris makes sturdy growth
from early spring to well into
summer, goes dormant in late
summer, but stages a rapid come-
back following ( autumn rains. It
is slow-growing in winter.
In N.S.W. Phalaris is satis-
factory under moist or fertile


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
f
. .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BABBEKE
No Pads —
No Springs
rhe NEO-BAHRKEE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
Ton will at once, without effort and
In all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
babbebb DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3s), 248 Elizabeth Bt., Sydney
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
1
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may he.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage Is
absorbed into til© soil*
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26<30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 year*.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
DISTRIBUTORS; -
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne. _ .
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator 00. (S.A.)» 229 a Rundle
St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Me-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth. , .
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
110 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston. , , . .
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectnx
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE; British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank
Chambers, Raffles Place.
ANNOUNCING
THE NEW
rams
TRADE M A R *
D
U
Q
THE BETTER
LIQUID
PH EN 0 THI ft ZINE
WHY NOT
BEFORE?
"Phenovis" Liquid Phenothiazine was not introduced
until it was certain that it met a|J the reasonable
requirements of an effective fine quality, ready
prepared liquid phenothiazine drench.
SUPERFINE
QUALITY
The new special formulation of phenothiazme
ensures the highest possible kill of parasitic
worms in sheep and cattle.
MAINTAINS
STABILITY
There are no mixing, caking or clogging worries
with the new "Phenovis" Liquid. Once stirred,
complete suspension is ensured for your day's
drenching.
CHEAPER
It Is a product the stockowner will welcome be-
cause it fulfils the real need of a liquid
"Phenovis" drench at a cheaper cost —"Phenovis"
Liquid 1 gal. tins cost only 75/-.
‘PHENOVIS’a iq
ICI
Brand of Phenothlazine
N.S.W. Joint Distributors:
Wilcox Mofflin Ltd.,
15 Phillip St., Sydney.
Grazcos Co-op. Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIiS
d
Stighily doarmr
in tho country.
iWNOI’3«J
conditions or in drier districts,
where soil-fertility is going down.
It is dry-weather-resistant. In
winter it produces succulent
growth, when fresh feed is at a
premium. On ploughed ground
best results are obtained by
planting the seed beneath the
surface, using a seed drill and
letting the disks penetrate about
an inch. At least lewt. of super
per acre should go in with the
seed.
Phalaris and lucerne make an
ideal combination. Both are
deep - rooters, get established
about the same time, produce
balanced pasture and respond
well to renovating.
Seedbed Chemicals
“Twofor”: One of the hardest
jobs' confronting a farmer with
sod-land to bring back to culti-
vation is that of preparing a
suitable seedbed.
Much cultivation has to be
done to kill the sod. In wet
weather the job becomes either
impossible or greatly prolonged.
Such intensive working of the
soil also makes sloping land
vulnerable to erosion.
Sod-grass is, however, readily
killed by modern chemicals,
leaving it as a mulch on the
surface. The soil beneath is in
condition to make a good seed-
bed, and cultivation can be
largely or entirely dispensed
with. Elimination of ploughing
also avoids bringing up a fresh
crop of weed-seeds.
Best results have been ob-
tained in America with 2,4,5-T,
the effects of which quickly
disappear from the soil.
Hybrid Eucalypts
“Humus”: Ewart, in his Flora
of Victoria, appears to support
the theory that bees cross-pol-
linate eucalypts. On the origin
of eucalypts he says : “A recent
origin is suggested by its plasti-
city, by the imperfect segrega-
tion of its species and by their
ready hybridisation,”
Whether the ready hybridisa-
tion was natural or artificial is
not stated. My observations in
this district (Hurstbridge, Vic.)
rule out the possibility of hybrid
eucalypts being produced
naturally.
When the flow of nectar is
on from any species of eucalypts
the bees concentrate on that
species, take up their load and
head straight for the hive. There
is not the necessity to visit many
plants, as they do with garden
flowers.
Possibly ants, butterflies and
even nectar-loving birds carry
pollen from one species to
another.
Assuming that cross-fertilisa-
tion has occurred and that the
flower-sets seed, what are the
possibilities of the seed germinat-
ing and growing into a hybrid
plant?
I believe it’s millions to one
against, especially in virgin
bush. Nature is prolific in seed-
production, and a mature euca-
lypt produces many thousands,
few of which germinate. In 11
years’ observation of a shelter-
belt of sugar-gums (E. dado-
calyx) only two seedlings have
appeared naturally, and they
were in clear ground many feet
away from the parent trees.
A guess is that hybrid euca-
lypts are sports ; that is, trees
which have deviated from the
usual form.
Krilium
“C.S.”: A lot of public mysti-
fication about krilium, a soil-
improver which is not a ferti-
liser, was cleared up when
Monsanto Chemicals (Aust.)
Ltd., explained it, with the help
of a technicolor film, to a
Sydney audience.
Krilium is a white, free-flow-
ing powder derived from simple
chemicals, and is very closely
related to some of the synthetic
fibres and plastics now in every-
day use.
It is soluble in water, but in
the earth, after mixing with the
particles of heavy, clayey soil, it
cannot be removed by watering
or rain. This is because the
molecules of krilium are long
chains which, when dissolved in
the soil-water, become electri-
cally charged. The long elec-
trically-charged chains stick on
to the opposite electrical charge
on individual clay particles in
the soil and bind them together.
Where isolated clay particles are
naturally packed solidly against
each other, treatment with
krilium makes clumps with air-
spaces between the particles,
and they are bound so tightly
together with krilium that the
force of rain or watering will
not separate them again.
When a gardener turns over
clayey or similar hard-caked
earth and breaks it up with his
spade or hoe into small crumb
particles he has a soil structure
which allows moisture and roots
to penetrate. This soil does not
stay in that condition very long ;
after rain or watering it be-
comes hard and impenetrable
again. By mixing krilium with
it the tilled soil retains that
newly dug-up condition.
Because the individual par-
ticles are clumped together in
crumbs instead of packing
tightly, more water and more
air can be stored. Instead of
the soil becoming sour it re-
mains sweet and well aerated.
In addition, the extra moisture
which the soil holds is used by
the'plants and enables them to
stay alive longer without water-
ing- _
The krilium-user must first
work the soil into con-
dition he wants. He next dusts
krilium evenly over the surface,
then works it in thoroughly. The
more thoroughly he works it in
the better the results. After such
treatment the clay soil will re-
main in good tilth, easy to work,
and will usually grow a far better
crop.
Krilium is not a fertiliser. It
does not add to the plant-food
in the soil, and gardeners and
others should continue to apply
fertilisers. It also is not a sub-
stitute for good tillage, but once
applied greatly facilitates tillage.
It works only on the small clay
particle, and not on larger par-
ticles such as sand. A sandy
soil may not react favorably,
and it is a waste of money to
apply krilium to such soils.
Cobalt Deficiency
“G.T.”: A C.S.LK.O. state-
ment on the role of cobalt in
future developments in pasture-
improvement has apparently
created an impression that cobalt
is essential to the growth of
plants. This is not so.
Cobalt is taken up by plants,
but is important only to the
health of livestock. As far as is
known, important deficiencies of
cobalt exist only in certain
limited areas of West Australia,
South Australia and Tasmania,
where the lack of cobalt in the
pasture has led to such com-
plaints as Denmark disease,
coast disease and Phalaris
staggers.
No good purpose can be
served by including cobalt in
fertiliser for pasture-improve-
ment except where lack of
cobalt is known to cause stock
maladies. Even then, since
cobalt is costly, drenching of
sheep is more economic.
Hints for the Farm
“Big Billy”: Oats make the
cheapest supplementary stock-
food at present. Half a pound
per day will keep a sheep in good
condition if there is a little pick-
ing in the paddocks to make
some bulk. Begin feeding before
the paddock-feed runs out.
After the first rains taper off
gradually until green-feed is
available again. C.5.1.R.0. ex-
periments have proved that
sheep fed once weekly with a
whole week’s ration do better
over a period than daily-fed
sheep, apart from the labor
saved.
“C.A.A.”: To avoid mush-
room-poisoning eat only those
varieties found in open fields.
Don’t collect mushrooms be-
neath trees. The edible mush-
room can be easily identified. It
is flesh-pink on its lower surface
and white on top.
“Spes”: Fowl-manure should
be mixed in the soil as fresh
as possible to allow the soil to
absorb the ammonia and plant-
life to make full use of the
nitrogen. The longer you hold
fowl-manure the less fertilising
value it has.
“Silen”: Silage-shrinkage de-
pends on the method adopted.
Tests in New Zealand proved
that, for every 100 tons of
material ensiled in pits, 66 tons
of fodder was dug out. In stacks
the average recovery was 58
tons.
“W.C.Q.”: Working on stiff
and stony soils, I have found it
advisable to explode a small
charge of gelignite in holes
intended for mango- and citrus-
trees (B. 31/12/’52). This
loosens the surrounding ground,
making for increased moisture-
absorption—an important point
on dry slopes—while simul-
taneously promoting drainage.
Nothing is more fatal to most
trees than stagnant moisture
around their roots.
“Billjim”: Where vacant land
is not required for sowing or
planting in the near future it
should be sown to a green crop.
Lupins, barley and mustard im-
prove the condition of the soil
and check winter weed-growth.
“My”: Onions are best raised
in seedbeds and transplanted
when 6in. to Sin. high—about
10' weeks after sowing. Vic-
torian “Journal of Agriculture”
, recommends a deeply-worked
soil not necessarily heavily
manured, using blood-and-bone
as a base manure. When the
bulbs begin to form apply liquid
sulphate of ammonia, loz. to the
gallon, twice at intervals of one
month. Onions can be lifted
when green for immediate use,
but for storage allow the tops
to wither. After lifting leave
the bulbs on the surface until
the foliage is quite dry, then
hang in strings in a cool, airy
shed.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Under the present cycle there should be very little ram
during June in northern areas, but in central areas Of the
eastern coast there should be good ram. It will probably e
in two lots, one about now and the other towards the close
of the month. Along the southern coast and inland
agricultural areas the rams should be good—heavy in West
Australia. Satisfactory rains are likely inland.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Planners
Among the many victories achieved by
Socialist propaganda, none is more sig-
nificant than the gradual way in which
we have been led to believe that capi-
talism is a “system” which can be taken
or left alone. It certainly isn’t that,
and it certainly cannot be chosen or dis-
regarded with little effort either way.
Fhe primitive savage hoarding a few
extra fish caught above his immediate
needs with the idea of bartering them
for bait to save himself the bother of
digging for it could have been the proto-
type of all subsequent capital manipula-
tions. The course of events was both
natural and inevitable. The expert fisher-
man, chafing at the necessity to mess
around collecting bait, catches a few
more fish and trades them off to a less
expert but harder-working brother.
Later, extending his catching opera-
tions, he finds that tackle, a canoe,
paddles, etc., can all be obtained by
offering fish to those content to make
tackle, canoes, paddles, etc.
The free play of choice, various skills,
superior mental ability, hard work, etc.,
is clearly established, together with the
manifestations of likes and dislikes for
this and that.
No matter from what angle the matter
is examined, it must be conceded that the
free and uncontrolled operation of
natural forces results in “capital,” since
each operator is compelled by expediency,
greed and enthusiasm for his particular
craft to produce “stock” with which to
meet more than mere current demand.
Nowhere in the histories of civilisa-
tions during their early and mid-flourish-
ing stages can we find any pretence or
suggestion of “choice”—the “system”
just grew.
It is only in the later, and decaying,
stages that we find the influence of the
controller —the incipient bureaucrat who
cannot bear to see A with more dough
than B. The strong urge for self-
betterment and individual gain has by
then built a solid structure of estab-
lished civilisation served by machines
and technology, within which the less
fortunate have leisure-time to ponder on
the inequality between themselves and
the rich and prosperous (and quick-
witted) capitalists.
Something, of course, must be done, and
it is—by creating bureaucracies to study
the social system and point out flaws.
Some very serious flaws are detected,
and further departments are set up to
cope with them. All this, it must be
clearly understood, because these char-
acters now have the extra time in which
to expand the theme. Before the
advanced technologies of the capitalists
improved the general lot they were too
busy working.
And so the pattern begins to emerge
—the pattern of decay. Controls, Gov-
ernment interference, general slowing-
down of effort to match the speed of the
slowest, more reliance on Government,
with consequent increase of interference
in fields of endeavor not even remotely
connected with good government, and
fewer and fewer people actually working
or applying labor to natural resources.
The increasing chaos is perversely
blamed on the capitalists, and the puzzled
population is told that they must strain
every nerve to rid themselves of this
horrible incubus of capitalism and let
the planners show them h‘ow to do things.
But despite the obvious fact that capi-
talism has provided all the material to
work on, the zealous planners proceed
to tear the structure down because of
its “evils.”
Nothing is more profoundly mysterious
to the average planner than the simple
proposition that if a man receives a flat
rate he will do as little as possible for
it, whereas if he can earn as much as he
likes he will work hard. The obstinate
refusal to accept this proposition, and
the muddleheaded insistence on socialised
effort in place of the dynamic forces of
individual enterprise, result in inability
to replace the damaged structure with
anything workable. To cover up the
defects, force is resorted to and that spells
finis.—R. H. G. (W.A.).
Garage Hours
As a garage proprietor for the past 20
years, I haven’t much sympathy for
motorists who complain about running
out of petrol 50 miles from home on a
Sunday afternoon (B. 27/5/’53).
If they are stupid enough not to buy
sufficient petrol on Sunday morning, they
have only themselves to blame —had they
lived in the days of horse transport their
horse would have died of starvation.
Garages are open 61 \ hours and seven
days a week, and that should be enough
for anyone.—A. B. W. (N.S.W.).
Full Employment
“Ajax” (B. 20/5/’53) says: “Full
employment as we have experienced it
forced industry to employ, at fantastically
high wages for poor returns, the unem-
ployables, loafers, time-wasters and
truculent no-hopers. They were the men
without skill or responsibility who
absented themselves at will and who were
retained because the work had to be
done at any cost.”
Yes ; the unemployment as we have ex-
perienced it forced industry to sack, at
no wages but the pitifully inadequate
“dole,” the employables, hard-workers,
time-savers and peaceful hopers. They
were the men with skill and responsi-
bility who did not absent themselves
except for good reason, and who were
not retained because there was no work
to be done whatever the cost to these
men.
When the depression hit us it wasn’t
just the time-wasters and no-hopers who
/ *
lost their jobs; some of the men who
went were among the best. I’m not
speaking from hearsay. During the de-
pression I started work as an office-boy
at a big industrial plant whose total of
workers had dropped from a couple of
thousand to 600.
Among those who lost their jobs were
a young electrical engineer who was
extremely capable at the bench or in
the field; a young man who had served
an apprenticeship, earned a reputation
as a first-class tradesman and a capable
draughtsman and had been promoted to
leading-hand; and an electrical wireman
who was really a wizard at the work.
Those were only three good men. It
would be safe to assume that there were
thousands like them—clever, hard-work-
ing men who were sacked as surely as
the loafers. But it isn’t, after all, a ques-
tion of numbers. If one man who wants
to work is refused a job it’s as much a
tragedy to him as if thousands were in
the same boat.
I’m not denying that full employment
means that a number of loafers get paid
for nothing. But Ido say that it’s better
to carry a few loafers than to blight a
man’s life —and that of his wife and
“Tell the captain I wish to see him !”
children—by refusing him work when he’s
able and willing to do it, —Taswegian
(Tas.).
A Critic
It is an inaccurate generality to sug-
gest that Labor in the S.A. State elec-
tion accused Premier Playford of con-
niving with Menzies and Fadden to starve
his own State of loan-money (B.
20/5/’53). No one in S.A. could get
away with that in the face of the large
sums Playford has invariably received
from the Loan Council, and of his forth-
right demand for the abolition of uniform
tax.
The “trick” didn’t fail here —it was
never tried by Opposition-leader O’Hal-
loran. What did affect the issue was
the swing of the pendulum against a'
man who has been Premier for 15 con-
secutive years, and against a party which
has been in power for 20 consecutive
years. Even then its only losses were
individuals holding border-line or pre-
ponderantly Labor seats in which they
had failed to show much personal capa-
city.
When The Bulletin warns the people
of Australia that unification could be
their penalty for failing to face their re-
sponsibilities, it should direct its remarks
to the particular electors it has in mind.
We have honest politics and decent
morality in S.A., and we have clearly
shown in past referenda what we think
of unification.
Incidentally, in the same issue of The
Bulletin, the writer of “Churchill Con-
ciliates” and “Ek Dum,” in his able
article, “At Suez,” both refer to the
British Prime Minister as “Mr.” Chur-
chill. If anyone’s earned his title. Sir
Winston has. — Criticosa (S.A,).
Charities
Frequent button-days and charitable
appeals stress the need for a revision of
the charities set-up.
There are far too many charitable
organisations. Many overlap in their
functions, and an amalgamation would
cut overhead expenses considerably and
release more money to the purpose for
which it is collected. Other organisations
confine their activities to small sections of
the needy. Tljese again could be better
served by a larger organisation.
The high cost of running many of these
organisations is killing the effectiveness
of the charity itself as well as public
response to many of the appeals. Run-
ning-costs are unavoidable. Few people
are able to give their time free, and full-
time officials are essential. Everything
from a postage-stamp to a phone-call has
to be paid for. At the same time there
does not seem to be the same urge for
economical and efficient administration
as there is in , a public company which
has to present its shareholders with a
yearly dividend. There is too much of
the attitude that another few pounds
won’t matter.
It is hard to see „what can be done
about it without Government interfer-
ence. The simplest solution would be to
place a levy of two or three pounds on
each income-tax assessment. The
amount collected could then be divided
among approved charitable organisations.
The amount added to each individual tax
is not large enough to hurt anyone, yet
the total would go a long way towards
satisfying the needs of most of the im-
portant charities.
Any scheme involving Government in-
terference must have a host of weak-
nesses, but it would have the advantage
of letting the organisations know what
they are likely to receive and thus assist
them to budget. It would also cut out
those annoying button-days and never-
ending art-unions and raffles.
The high cost of running charities
today demands that some action be taken
to assist them. — Rann (N.S.W.).
Farm or Factory
“Bass” touches on the basic cause of
our overcrowded cities when he says (B.
20/5/’53) “many a city-dweller would
willingly change places with a farmer.”
No doubt they would if it were a
simple exchange; if they could walk on
to a farm worth £6OOO (“Bass’s” own
figure) straight from an office or factory.
But few are prepared to take their wives
and children into an undeveloped district
and rough the first two years necessary
to establishing a farm and home worth
£6OOO. So they stay in the cities or
towns.
Around Cooktown (N.Q.) are tracts
of first-class farm-land available in a
virgin state for a matter of shillings an
acre. A few stout hearts growing pea-
nuts or mixed crops or raising cattle are
proving farms there will pay. Similar
pockets along the east coast could support
small thriving communities. But despite
generous bank-credit policies few city-
workers seem keen to seek them out
and open them up.
A first-class tradesman, owning his
own house, and often a car, could sell
out for enough cash to attract bank help
in buying a farm. I don’t blame him
for not wanting to give up city amenities
and his job, “often without security,”
because, if the breaks aren’t all his way,
working a farm up from scratch could
take half his remaining active years. At
the same time,-I can’t take seriously his
wish to change places with the cocky.
In the 1953 cane-harvesting season
just starting, tradesmen will leave their
jobs for six, months to earn big money
on the cane-knife. They do it each
year, mostly for the worthy purpose of
earning and saving quickly to build a
home. But that home will be back in
town, not on a farm in the bush.
As long as city amenities and a job—
“often without security”—attract more
people than do prospects of working for
one’s self on a farm, the problem of
overcrowded cities will continue. —K. M.
(Q.).


Trace-elements and Drainage
“Quaero” (B. 20/5/’53) evidently does '
not read the agricultural papers pub-
fished in this part of Australia. People
living along the S.A.-Vic. border did dig
drains, in some cases over 60 years ago.
This can be done by private enterprise <
only when you can run your drain to a •
natural watercourse or a “sink-hole” 1
through the limestone and clay to the .
porous underlying strata. If anyone 1
wants to find himself facing an action 1
for heavy damages, without a leg to stand
on in the legal sense, he has only to
divert flood water on to another man’s
property.
As a result, in a locality where natural
watercourses and sinkholes are rare, the
S.A. Government had to undertake a
system of drains to carry the surface
waters of winter right down to the sea-
coast. Private enterprise couldn’t have
done it.
The statement that private landowners
didn’t use trace-elements on their land
is ridiculous. Every progressive man in
a big area of country watched the
C.5.1.R.0. and Waite Institute experi-
ments with keen interest. The moment
the findings were announced the fer-,
tiliser companies were inundated with
orders for super, containing the deficient
elements.
Right here I’d like to stress what the
Waite Institute has been pointing out for
years. Trace-elements on their own will
do little. By applying at least one
hundredweight of super, to the land
annually, you have also to make good
the biggest deficiency of all, the lack of
phosphorus.
Private landowners down here were
correcting trace-element deficiency in
their soils as far back as 1938, and
hundreds of thousands of acres of land
had thus been brought into production
years before the A.M.P, Society thought
of tackling the same thing on a large
scale.— H. A, Lindsay (S.A.).
Defence Costs
A Melbourne daily expressed a not-
uncommon view when it suggested that
we are spending too much on defence
What a dangerous idea that is!
The 1952-53 Federal Budget set aside
£2OO million for defence purposes. This
represents about five per cent, of our
national income. Compare it with other
countries. In 1951, in financially troubled
Britain the percentage was 13.4 ; U.S.A.,
17 ; and in Canada, 10.
The huge cost of war materials and
modern weapons quickly eats into a de-
fence vote of £2OO million. Service pay
alone now takes close on £5O million a
year. Only by itemising defence costs
can you appreciate the need for high
defence expenditure —and realise that
£2OO million is indeed a small price to pay
for our own protection. — Marathon
(Vic.),
Soldier-preference
Is it right that “soldier-preference”
should be of indefinite duration;
shouldn’t it be limited to a specific
period after the end of a war, say five
or seven years? After that it could
cease to be absolute, though still remain-
ing the deciding factor in all cases where
other things were equal.
No one denies the justice of prefer-
ence to ex-servicemen as a measure of
compensation for the years of their lives
given to the nation. It is an oppor-
tunity offered them to re-establish their
civilian careers and to draw level with
those whose careers were not interrupted.
It probably had its highest validity when
war-service was voluntary, though that
is debatable—a conscripted man,
though possibly serving unwillingly, cer-
tainly had his career equally disrupted.
But surely five or seven years of prefer-
ence should give any but the no-hopers
ample time in which to re-establish them-
selves ; in the meantime the generation
just too young to go to war comes to
merit consideration. I have in mind a
man who just missed both wars through
no fault of his own. He trained for
local-government work but, despite un-
deniable ability and character, has found
it impossible to climb the ladder because
“soldier-preference” always blocked him.
Is it fair to shrug off cases like this
as “just their bad luck”?—Think it
(N.S.W.).
This Age of Unease?
Can’t altogether agree with “Hist” (B.
27/ 5/ ’53) that we all worry too much—
about change of Government, the next
basic-wage increase, the “next” war, etc.
I’d say that the average person doesn’t
worry enough about some of these
matters.
A worrier usually takes an intelligent
interest in serious affairs, both personal
and national, and there is no doubt that
we are facing something pretty serious
in the external and internal menace of
organised Communism. Yet most people
seem curiously apathetic about it all.
Admitted that every horror “is retailed
to us with the blood still dripping and we
learn too much, too soon, about what
might happen,” But that is a penalty
we have to pay for modem high-speed
communication. Anyway, most people
remain unmoved by it all.
Of course, many of our troubles never
do eventuate, so perhaps we may be
spared the looming catastrophe. On the
other hand we might have more chance
of averting it if we all give some thought
—and worry —to the future. —Rustum
(Vic.).
Dairyfarmers
I didn’t claim that the man who
“milked 40 or 50 cows with a bit of help
from the wife” and cleared £lOOO to
£l2OO a year had a farm worth £6OOO
(B. 20/5/’53). I said he would have at
least £6OOO invested, probably much
more.
It is obviously impossible to value a
farm on such slender clues, but in this
area—good but not heavy-carrying coun-
try—values on a conservative basis
would be:
400 acres at £l5 per acre un-
improved
House •• 2,000
Sheds, yards and outbuildings 1,000
Livestock • • • • J’soo
Tractor and other plant .. .. 1,500
Clearing, fencing, cultivation,
water (say, £5 an acre) .. 2,000
Total £14,000
None of those values could be very
much lower, but all could be much
higher. In other areas much less land
might be needed, but unimproved value
and cost of clearing would be higher.
In others more and cheaper land might
be needed. If the farmer had just
bought in, he would surely have not
much less than £6OOO of his own in-
vested. If he had spent nearly a life-
time on the farm the land might have
cost him E 3 or £4 an acre, the house
£5OO, the ancestors of his dairy herd £5
a head. But that was in real money,
backed by gold. On any fair basis, a
return of five per cent, on capital worth
£6OOO 30 or 40 years ago, and main-
tained in good order ever since at
steadily increasing cost, would be at
least £lOOO a year.
True, the farmer benefits from the un-
earned increment in the value of his
farm, which is just another way of say-
ing a gradual rise in the general standard
of living. But so does everyone else
in varying degrees, except, perhaps, those
on fixed incomes, or those who, like
landlords, are expolited for political
reasons.
If any city worker really wants to
change places with a farmer, here’s how.
Most present farmers got their start by
working on a farm, for the old man for
keep and clothes, or for a stranger for
£1 a week and keep, living under condi-
tions that most present-day workers
would scorn. Many today are similarly
working towards farm-ownership. Any
city worker who really wants to can do
the same.
I am not moaning. The average
dairyman today is not underpaid; neither
is he overpaid. As a few enterprising
ones have shown, he has it in his power
to be better off still. He has a few
advantages that no other party to this
discussion has thought of yet. But few
of his critics have any idea of how much
solid hardwork, self-denial, frustration
and unpaid family labor have gone to
build up his present comfortable posi-
tion. — Heresone (Q.).
Wanted, a Historical Magazine
Australia needs a magazine devoted to
articles dealing with the history of this
section of the South-west Pacific. There s
no doubt about the quantity and quality
of the material available to fill its pages.
Newspaper and magazine editors can use
but a small fraction of the good historical
articles submitted to them.
History plays a most important part
in the life of a country. Thirteen years
ago, when Britain faced invasion, nothing
so heartened its people as the knowledge
that Hitler wasn’t likely to succeed where
Napoleon and Philip of Spain had
failed. In 1914 the First A.I.F. sailed
from these shores with no traditions save
the reputation earned by the Bushmen’s
Brigade during the Boer War. After
Gallipoli the survivors had behind them
something which any famous British
regiment could envy. The Light Horse
won similar renown in Palestine.
Granted that the pioneering of the
Australian outback lacked the counter-
part of the Indian fighting and the
general lawlessness of the settling of
Western America; but our settlers faced
just as many handicaps in the way of
vast distances, drought and flood as did
the Americans. Some of our great drov-
ing feats make famous American cattle-
drives tame by contrast, while the pioneer-
ing of New Guinea far outclasses any
Western American sagas.
What a wealth of material for a
historical magazine! It would have
everything in its favor —an assured read-
ing public and no shortage of material.
It should also have something denied to
most Australian publications—an over-
seas market—for its articles would offer
something new in the way of romance
and adventure with the added attraction
of fact. —Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Victorian Railways
This last week has seen the pulling-
down of our local railway-station;
the neighboring station, a few miles
away, has likewise vanished.
Now we have no public transport at
all, though, of course, we still pay our
share. The old-age pensioners hitch-hike
to collect their pensions, their mail and
their papers. Those who are sick either
pedal a bicycle in to the doctor or wait
until they are sick enough for the doctoi
to come out —which he will only do in
extreme cases. .
Once the farmers got their super., seed,
machinery, cement, iron, timber, etc.,
dropped at the siding within a couple
of miles of its destination. Now it is
trucked to the nearest station many miles
away and one begs a wealthier neighbor
to bring it out the rest of the way, for
there is no local carrier. Wood, sleepers,
livestock and grain were once left at
the siding. Now those farmers who have
trucks buy and sell in the nearest city.
That, with a main railway-line running
through our very paddocks!
From the point of view of economy
the whole thing is a farce, for there was
no stationmaster to pay, and over the last
five years the upkeep of the station and
siding had been almost nil. The money
spent pulling it down would have main-
tained it for many years.
No, the whole idea is that all farmers
have cars and trucks to look after them-
selves and the railways are for the towns-
people. Working on that philosophy the
“Labor” Government of Victoria has
been cutting out country stations. No
doubt the day will dawn when their
trains run non-stop between cities and
the farmers in between will pay the deficit
out of their fat wool cheques. J. J. A.
(Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN" CROSSWORD No. 229
Across
I—Tenor1 —Tenor potato lying in state. (6)
4 —Sees rank in sandshoes. (8)
9 —Car not genuine, but it’s a way
of listening to your own voice.
(9)
—Tow is thus not whole. (2, 3)
12 — Listener. (3)
13 — Skelton and Jolson were intro-
duced for a copper alloy. (3,
15—Leopard-like cat weight. (5)
17 — Suiting a Russian. (5)
18 — The dona mentioned in the title
of a Keats poem. (2, 5)
19 — A cough’s disturbing to these
pampas horsemen. (7)
20 — -White wine’s pops. (5)
21 — Some precipitation by a heroine
of “Arms and the Man.” (5)
22 Snared printing measure takes me
- to an outhouse. (8)
24 —Larking republican gets an Etrus-
can title. (3)
26 Live with coppers in good
health. (5)
27 — No opening for a camel require-
ment by a Virginian general and
you. (6, 3)
29 Again casting the seed for a
Latin point o’pinion. (8)
30— Sudden floods require you to
keep your head in a steamer. (6)
Down
1 — Cross Eve did this when Adam
delved with an important matter
of course for a start. (4)
2 Did he strike the harbor? (5)
3 Soft drink report for the old
man. (3)
5 An American high spot for a
prelate swallowing metal ack-ack.
(11)
6 One saint's enough for these
Europeans. (9)
7 Talked on a little harboring
implement. (10)
8 — Money girl’s seabird direction.
(5-7)
10 —Cowardly actor is a bird with a
golden mallet. (6, 6)
14 —Quarrelsome god and his
Majesty permit the sweet. (11)
16 — Additional clause is unsand-
papered rodeo star. (5-5)
17 — Thick, muddy quality gains
money over a timber steamer. (9)
23 —Happening with a T-square first.
(5)
25—She was bonny and brown to
be on a vessel. (4)
28—Circuit cobber turned up. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 228


TO BREED
/•
AU
, .. . * ■
® DARWIN
■■HI
I
m
M
m
i
m
i
• - -
■
n
■V:
m
m
f V:'
m
m
In
m
m
mm
i ;
m
m
. -
H
IN?* * ' s> -
i,” V* **>. '
hhhi
iP^
I
SS*&
‘^- 7 W
X,: •■:
¥
■
HH
• -.5 -
H
H
- .
■• ■ ,
x: : *-
11111111
n
1
yS;i» ••■ &$ &
*A\ V
\ K &>
® ALICE SPRINGS
HD
. . TTT-T
gpWBfWW
iT
“BEEF ROADS” • WATER • DEFENCE • FOOD PRODUCTION
HASTINGS DEEDING
NORTHERN RESEARCH RESERVES
HASTINGS DEERING (NORTHERN TERRITORY) PTY. LIMITED, Alice Springs and Darwin, N.T.
HASTINGS DIESELS LIMITED, 102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane; Alice Springs, Northern Territory; Lae, New Guinea
HASTINGS DEERING-QUEENSLAND PTY. LTD., 102*124 Melbourne Street, South Brisbane.
m
E 3
Aerial view of 3
million-gallon dam
under construction
on Hastings
Peering Northern
Research Reserves,
Alice Springs area,
with windmill bore,
300,000 - gallon
turkey-nest tank,
house site, cattle
troughs, etc. Note
the size of the
trees.
"Caterpillar"
Tractor with
Bulldozer and
Scraper, digging
out d 3 million-
gallon dam,
Hastings Peering
Northern Research
Reserves. An
actual insight into
the magnitude of
this task.
Close -up of big
earth - moving
machines and
"Cate r p i 11 ar "
Tractors engaged
on dam construe-
fion, Hastings
Deering Northern
Research Reserves,
Alice Springs area.
Water conserva-
tion and irrigation
will turn now
barren areas into
a beef-producing
country.
.FOOD
pomrMi
Beef from our North" has
always appealed f© Mr. H.
Hastings Peering as an urgent
national necessity, for the
twin-objects of feeding our
growing population and
supplying our defence forces.
Beef s a vital food and a vital
munition. "Breed Beef!" has
long been Mr. Deering's
dictum.
Photos at left show activities
on the Hastings Peering
Northern Research Reserves
in the Alice Springs area,
which cover more than 2,600
square miles of territory.
On this property dams are
being sunk, roads are being
built, pasture protection and
fodder conservation are being
developed, and other activi-
ties are being promoted under
expert control. The ultimate
objective is to greet *y
increase Australia's beef
production by introducing the
best beef cattle on well-
watered pasture areas.
train load of 300 head of fat
cattle was shipped from Alice
Springs early in April, showing the
irogress made in this area in less
than three years.
