

FOR PORT WINE OP DISTINCTION, BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“STEELE RUDD”— p4ge 27
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3832
Wednesday, July 22, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
GUILDHALL, WHERE THE
LIVERY COMPANIES’ BANNERS
PROUDLY HANG
UILDHALL, London, is known
throughout the Commonwealth and
Empire as the scene of the annual Lord
Mayor’s banquet at which important
pronouncements are often made in
speeches by British statesmen and broad-
cast to the world. Momentous meetings
have taken place in the Great Hall where
sovereigns have been received and where
famous people distinguished in many
walks of life have attended to receive the
freedom of the city.
The original Guildhall was badly
damaged in the Great Fire of 1666, and
the present fifteenth-century building
suffered severely in the bombing raids
of 1940 during the Second World War.
The Great Hall, however, escaped the
utter destruction that overtook the
Council Chamber, the Aldermen’s Court
Room and other apartments in this his-
toric building. A temporary structure
replaces the original hammerbeam roof,
and little now remains of the original
stained-glass windows. The figures of
the giants Gog and Magog, which looked
down on the lofty chamber from the
gallery, were also destroyed.
The ancient floor of the hall—of Port-
land stone flagging patterned with black
and buff tiles still remains and is
remarkable for the fact that some of the
flags are inlaid with the arms of various
mayors since the first mayor of London
in 1212. A touch of colour is brought to
the Great Hall by the banners of the
twelve great Livery Companies, which
include the Mercers, Grocers, Drapers,
Fishmongers, Goldsmiths, Skinners, Mer-
chant Taylors, Haberdashers, Salters,
Ironmongers, Vintners and Glothworkers,
the earliest of which (Merchant Taylors)
was incorporated in 1326.
The crypt beneath the Great Hall is a
fine example of fifteenth-century groined
vaulting, and before the war it held the
museum in which Roman and medieval
antiquities, found within the City of
London, were shown. These are now
exhibited in a room near the Library.
The reading room of the Guildhall
Library is a magnificent example of the
Perpendicular Gothic style of architec-
ture, and is rich in early manuscripts,
records and books relating to the City.
Here, also, are the first, second and fourth
folios of Shakespeare’s plays and the
deed of sale of a house in Blackfriars
bearing Shakespeare’s signature.


The Red Page
WILD FLOWER GARDENS
Thistle Y. Harris’s Australian Plants
for the Garden (Angus and Robertson)
should perhaps be reviewed by an expert,
and a reviewer whose only success in this
field has been to transplant a seedling
wild-parsley and a seedling conestick into
a pot on the windowsill has very little
claim to that title —especially as it looks
as if it is going to take them twenty
years to grow up and bear a flower.
An attempt to imprison in another
window-box a complete small straggling
bush (name never ascertained), which
spreads over the hard bare clay on ridge-
tops of the Blue Mountains with little
pink waxy flowers, was a disaster: though
its whole native clod of clay was dug
up with it, it perished. And a similar
attempt with a couple of minute orchids,
possibly caladenias, seemed so likely to
end the same way that one hastily took
them back to the bush and liberated them
in the damp moss they love.
These two tubers, about as big as a-
peanut-shell, had been uprooted and laid
bare on a mossy ledge by a scratching
lyrebird. They put up their slender
leaves in the pot; even hopefully began
the spike that was to break into flower
above the shelter of the green sheath ;
but no flower ever came.
However, Miss Harris says specifically
that her handsome big book is meant
for the common (or garden) gardener ;
so perhaps one may legitimately com-
ment on it. As it happened, the day
before he read the book, the reviewer
had been out in French’s Forest, discus-
sing with other explorers of that lovely
wilderness (now ruined by garbage-
dumps) the possibility of looting a
banksia for the garden. One member of
the party had had a tragedy with a
sapling gum of some kind ; digging and
burrowing round it like a wombat for a
whole day, carefully replanting it with
its own earth near his house ; and watch-
ing it instantly wither. What could you
do with a banksia?
Here is Miss Harris on the problem: —-
Banksia serrata —Saw Banksia. This
handsome plant from New South Wales,
Victoria and Tasmania makes a quaint
addition to an informal garden, with its
twisted, knotted branches. It is as typical
of our east coast as the common red-gum
(Angophora lanceolaia ) or the bloodwood
(Eucalyptus gummifera). The gnarled and
knotted stems of some old specimens still
left battling in our denuded bushlands seem
to hold a wealth of historical knowledge.
The young branches are densely woolly,
with a rich-brown covering that looks most
handsome against the Ught-grey, w°olly-
looking stem. The leaves are stiff and
serrated, rich-green above, hoary under
neath, 3in. to 4in. long and ,m. to Im.
wide. The flower-spikes are oblong-
cvlindrical, 3in. to 6in. in length, very
thick, densely greyish-woolly when young,
produced in late summer, ihis is a quaint
and handsome tall shrub or small tree,
suited to sandy soils of the coast. It likes
a light soil on the coast, and grows 12tt.
to 20ft. high Banksias are easily grown
from seed by placing the cones between wet
bags till the seeds germinate, then lifting
the germinating seeds put and planting.
They then need protection against frosts
and excessive moisture.
Well, here is an affectionate description
of the*tree; here are precise-enough in-
structions on how to grow it from seed.
But—at any rate from the novice’s view-
point—some urgent questions remain
unanswered. How long does it take these
seeds to grow to a tree of, say, six feet
in height, which is about the earliest
moment when a banksia really becomes,
interesting? How long before they
develop into the wrinkled veterans that
figure so delightfully as the Banksia Men
in May Gibb’s fantasy for children?
And if, as one fears is likely from the
look of them, this takes about a thou-
sand years,. is there no way of acquiring
a mature banksia in one's own lifetime?
Can they be grown from cuttings? Can
they be transplanted whole from the
forest; and if so, how and when? Do
any nurserymen grow them for sale?
And, finally and most importantly, can
Miss Harris tell us any stories about the
luck, the troubles, the experiences which
she or other people have had in growing
banksias?
There are many other occasions in
Australian Plants for the Garden when
such questions arise. On the other hand,
there are many occasions when they are
answered. It is reasonable to assume
when Miss Harris tells you that the ivy-
leaf violet will grow and spread well in
a bog-garden that all you have to do
is to dig the plants up and take them
home. Transplanting is covered in
general, if not in specific cases, by a set
of instructions on treatment of the soil
and handling of the seedling. And if
as is more likely in most cases —it is a
waratah or a boronia rather than a
banksia you wish to introduce to your
garden, the procedures are clear:
The young, actively growing parts of the
plant make good material for new growth.
Such parts are called softwood cuttings,
the wood used being the present season’s,
or at most last season’s. Australians that
are fairly easily grown from such softwood
cuttings are Prostanthera (mintbush),
Helichrysum (everlastings), Oleaaria,
Pimelea, Isopogon (drumsticks), Melaleuca,
Verticordia, Chamelaucium (Geraldton
wax), Correa, Boronia, Eriostemon,
Grevillea (spiderflowers). The tip of the
new growth should be nipped off in late
spring or summer, not more than two
inches being cut off, with the exceptions
of correas and verticordias, when 4 to
6 inches give best results... .Before insert-
ing the cutting in the ground, examination
of the torn base should be made. Since
the roots will form on the lowest notch
or node any stem below that will be useless
and may cause disease by rotting in the
soil. It should be nipped or cut, either
just below this lowest node or directly
across it. Only experiment will tell you
which is the more favorable method . . .
Miss Harris’s Wildflowers of Australia
is one of the most useful and attractive
nature-books ever published in this
country —infinitely more valuable to the
amateur than Cayley’s bird-book, where
the plates are too small and the system
of classification too confusing for easy
identifications. Australian Plants for the
Garden may be found as useful in the
garden as the wildflower book is in the
bush; but it is perhaps best regarded
as a pioneering venture in a field which,
as Miss Harris herself says, is still largely
experimental. It contains a tremendous
list, with every plant described, of flowers,
shrubs and trees suitable for the garden;
chapters on planning the garden, treat-
ment of the soil, germination of seed
(with the help, in some cases, of burn-
ing, soaking in boiling water, filing with
a nail-file and encouraging with sulphuric
acid—Australian plants are tough), pot-
ting, planting, growing from cuttings,
budding and grafting, plant maladies and
pests, hedges and windbreaks, small gar-
dens, bog-gardens, rockeries, ferns,
water-gardens, window-boxes and tubs ;
and towards the end there are 17 plans
showing precisely how an Australian
wildflower garden may be laid out to
make the best of soil, climate, color-
harmonies and times of flowering.
The absence of any reference to the
bush orchids is inexplicable; unless Miss
Harris is reserving these for a later,
special study ; and one regrets that lurid
color-photographs have been used for
illustration instead of the pleasant little
paintings that added to the charm and
value of Wildflowers of A ustralia. Never-
theless the book is still a decorative pro-
duction and, running to 354 large pages,
gives an amazingly comprehensive Aus-
tralia-wide coverage of its subject. While
it is intended for the gardener rather
than the general reader, it is pleasant to
see Miss Harris’s quotations from Aus-
tralian wildflower poetry —by T. Inglis
Moore, Myra Morris, Norma L. Davis,
Roland E. Robinson and Dorothea Mac-
kellar (Judith Wright’s beautiful “Wonga
Vine” should have been added) and to
come across odd bits of information such
as that our old friend Prickly Moses was
probably, originally, Prickly Mimosa.
"The Lifted Spear"
Of the poems in Ernest G. Moll’s The
Lifted Spear (Angus and Robertson) this
reviewer liked best “Farm Day.” It is
compact, it is Australian, it is full of a
warm rustic leisure, it is perfectly clear,
and it is an excellent example of how
Professor Moll has been able to adapt to
the Australian scene that quietly-
humorous tone of voice and plainness of
speech he has picked up (and made his
own) from such American writers as
Robert Frost and Edward Arlington
Robinson;
The magpie’s meditation is
Mother of morning melodies ;
The kookaburra’s laugh at night
Remembers some obscene delight;
And I between the two have done
A good day’s work beneath the sun,
Just pausing by the stable fence
To applaud the magpie’s eloquence.
And at the other’s merry din
To smile at a remembered sin.
Some other pleasing lyrics, more-or-
less in the same vein, are the title-poem,
“Girl Surfing in War-time” and, particu-
larly, “Coast Idyll,” where, in a happy
meditation on life and love. Professor
Moll takes the reader very naturally and
convincingly into the charming land-
scape of sun and salt-water he is writing
about.
“Marguerite,” a longer poem, is an
interesting commentary on the life of
Matthew Arnold, whom Professor Moll
sees as haunted by the girl he left behind
him in Switzerland; much as Flerbert
Read—though he carried the theory to
excess —saw Wordsworth haunted by
Annette. The bulk of the book is filled
with a long narrative poem, “Jonah at
Nineveh,” reminiscent in style of “The
Lotos-eaters”; fluent to read both as
poetry and as a story and amiable in its
philosophy but conveying no impression
of original force or vision.
Recent Penguins
A Penguin reprint that should interest
a lot of people is Erskine Childers’s The
Riddle of the Sands. It is the spy-story
of all spy-stories and has had scores of
imitators, none of which touched its
altitude.
A wild Irishman and an insensate
yachtsman, Childers spent his holidays
nosing round the. shallow waters of the
Baltic and investigating with his keel the
reefs and sandbars of the Friesian islands,
and he came to the conclusion that things
were going on there that might be in-
teresting to Britain. That was round
about 1900.
He confected his experiences into a
spy-story and, taking the authentic sailing
details from his logbook, wrote a narra-
tive that was so exciting that it took the
reading-public by storm when it was
published in 1903.
The public read it for its human-
interest, but then a strange thing
happened. Somebody at the British
Admiralty picked it up, possibly to while
away the tedium of a railway-journey,
and then sat up when he discovered he
was reading about an intense develop-
ment of the German seaboard and
approaches to the North Sea that official-
dom had apparently never heard of,
though it was probably all there in the
files of the Admiralty in dry reports that
wouldn’t stir anybody’s imagination.
The book was taken seriously by the
professional authorities, and naval policies
were changed to fit-in with the fictional
conceptions of this wild Irish amateur
whom nobody had heard of. Childers’s
fantastic hallucinations turned into reality
in World War II when the schemes he
allegedly uncovered were found to be in
full working-order. t r
Childers fought in the Boer War and
the Great War, wrote two more books
exposing the antiquated use of cavalry
against " modern weapons, and later
was in the House of Commons, but
resigned to fight for Irish independence.
He was arrested and shot, thus incurring
a fate that the Germans would gladly
have wished upon him if they had known
about him in 1900.
Among other recent Penguins is
Zuleika Dobson, Max Beerbohm’s witty,
sometimes all-too-witty, fairy-story of the
bewilderingly lovely damsel who comes
to Oxford to stay with her grandpa, the
Warden of Judas, and sets the dreaming
spires of the academic city spinning—a
bit Early Victorian this one.
In Men and Gods, Rex Warner retells
the wonderful classic myths from Ovid,
Apuleius and other sources. The Col-
lected Plays of J. M. Synge includes “The
Playboy of the Western World,” which
Iso enraged its first-night audience that
they nearly wrecked the Abbey Theatre
but which now leaves one awed by the
playwright’s ability to identify himself
with his people and absorb their language.
In The Brook Kerith George Moore
retells the Christian story but in his own
terms, making Jesus survive the Cross
to be saved from death by his friend
the wealthy merchant Joseph of Ari-
mathea, and to end his days as a simple
shepherd disbelieving in his Messiahship,
to the astonishment of Paul, who finds
him when he is fleeing from persecution
for preaching the opposite doctrine; the
story is told so humanly find gently, in
Moore’s inimitably persuasive manner,
that the winds of controversy have never
blown around it.
Medieval Latin Lyrics, translated by
Helen Waddell, is the surprise of the
collection. Unless he understood the
spirit of the Middle Ages, nobody would
imagine that those old monkish scribes
could have written verses in praise of
Bacchus, Venus and the Muses as un-
inhibited and exciting as these.
Reviewed Briefly
A Prize of Gold: Max Catto (Heine-
mann). Some English smart-guys and an
American hijack a consignment of Nazi
gold on its way to England, and crack-
up nervously in a long and dark scene
in a warehouse where the gold is stored.
The girls in the background have a
complementary sordor —a decaying small-
time London actress, and especially the
American’s reason for needing money:
the schoolteacher ex-wife of a dead
German concentration-camp torturer.
* * * *
The Retreat: P. H. Newby (Cape). An
airman comes back shattered after Dun-
kirk, but does not go home, but to a
girl-friend of his childhood, now married
to an older man. The girl has had a
stillborn child in the bombing, and she
has gone as haywire as the airman, given
to staying out at night with other men,
but watched-over selflessly by her dis-
tressed husband. The nightmare love-
affair of girl and airman ends with then-
flight to the seaside, and with the girls
death in a boardinghouse and the air-
man’s return to his own wife—a weird
story, with moments of pathos and power.
* * * *
My Brother, My Enemy: Mitchell
Wilson (W. H. Allen). In the late 1920 s
two brothers just out of college set
about inventing television in the back
room of their wayside garage. The novel
is an exciting study of the persistence ot
the inventors through failure after
failure; of their devices to get enough
capital to continue their experiments ;
of their ruthlessness in disposing of the
legal claims of old backers when more
powerful support can be gained ; ot their
troubles in securing patents and pre-
venting their claims being jumped by big
corporations—there is more to inventing
than appears in children’s wonder-
books. With this goes a story of the
older brother who always takes the
younger brother’s girls, and of the sister
who mothered the two of them, and 1
the wicked will of a neighboring aircraft-
manufacturer when they were m need
of money.
The Bluegums
The smoke grows up beside the trees
as blue and straight as they,
and puts out dumbly, by degrees,
its foliage of grey.
Not that the true trunks are outdone—
cliffs and tall air evoke
these piers which through a drift of sun
push upward smooth like smoke.
II
Where deep under the years they bask
and comb the sky there should be peace
gathered; and if begrudged, who’d ask?
It is necessary and no great task
to dig down and uproot such trees.
They must be carried away for planks
with which build elsewhere, as you will,
silence; and in that dome give thanks
while noon clangs out. But by these banks
quiet is alive; the heart’s not still.
For here creek-water, in the cleft
between sprawled stones, rattles its news,
not to be plugged from ears, or left,
passing: it creeps on thought like theft,
or dins across the world; pursues.
Splash of a platypus; light and dark
flicking the leaves —all’s tense; and scare
crackles the bracken. And scratches mark
the possum’s highway where clean bark
might lead up pilgrim eyes like prayer.
Ill
Ripples moving across that lake
in the world’s morning, near low land
under its heavy cloud, would shake
grits of the wide shallows; and brand
with the shape of water, sand.
Over and over again design
would vary and form afresh and flow,
liquid as water itself, where fine
sediments settled through the slow
centuries that none know.
One moment only out of those years
stood still or, frozen by some shock,
was trapped in surfaces, and appears
as ripples which the sand-grains lock
fast for all time in rock.
But that was pattern of movement quelled.
Movement in being is out of reach—
other than what it was if held;
as crests, far coins ground each on each,
dim, caught by the beach.
Movement as growth is not the same.
These trees which still must grow or die
lift up your heart within their frame
of leaves and branches; and thereby
share breath with you, and the sky.
So mottle on their stems is more
movement alive than are the swift
edges of linking foam and shore
or march of ruffled tides and shift
of their shadows as they drift.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.


r
: y
lW
y.;*«
•s~r
:fc
'
Your windows are the
background of your furnishings
And nothing is more beautiful than Venetian blinds. Ask a friend where to buy the best Venetians;
9 times out of 10 the answer will be “Anthony Horderns’, of course.” We make up Venetians to
any size to fit any window. Our “Hordura” metal lath blinds are chip-proof in cream, pink, blue,
green, ivory, 5 other pastels. Wooden blinds with laths of Canadian cedar in any colour scheme.
6/11 sq ft. Min. 12 sq. ft. per blind.
'
I
m mm
:
MB
ES3
±r
i
h .- >'. ,
m
V'
'
B
£
H
:
.
i * ?:
HOLLAND BLINDS in the new colours:
Slate Grey, Jade Green, Sand and Red, as well
as Beige and Brown. Ours is only the best
quality Scotch Holland. We call at your home,
give advice on blinds, measure for any you
should want. Anywhere in the Metropolitan Area.
CANVAS BLINDS . Any type canvas you
choose we’ll make up in either Florentine or plain
drop styles. Plain stripes, gay multi-stripes ... in
either woven canvas or the famous Brella proofed
canvas. ’Phone or write to-day if you want any
type of canvas blind in your home.
Send for our free hooUlet on Minds.
Experts prepared this booklet that shows you just how to measure
for curtains and blinds. If you live out of town, it s invaluable
when ordering furnishings for your windows. Send for yours to'day.
:
~
mm
Venetians can control the flow
of air into your home! Tilt the
slats to capture a cool breeze,
to keep out a draught. Vene'
tians air-condition your home.
3
Venetians give mellow diffused
lighting to your home. Just by
tilting the slats you can regulate
your room's intake of light.
Soft, subdued shadows, or
brilliant light.
df
Especially if you live in the
country, you’ll love the all'
summer shade Venetians give.
They cool your home, protect
your furnishings, curtains from
the sun’s hot hand.
a
If you live in the metropolitan
area, the Venetians you order
from us we will personally fit
on the various windows in your
home. This gives your windows
perfect line, saves you worrying.
df
m
SHKHKI
LINDS, CURTAINS, THIRD FLOOR. ’PHONE M 2401.
MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2 712, G.P.0.. SYDNEY


By Modern Methods
Charting Unfathomed Coasts
By J. E. MACDONNELL
| i J HE ship,” the gunnery-jack will
/ tell you on no provocation at
all, “is merely a platform to
carry my guns.”
“And what,” the engineer will hop in
at once with, “is the use of the
ship if you haven’t got engines to
well get her there?”
To which age-old argument the Navy’s
hydrographers will smile wisely and say
nothing. For they know, in common
with merchant - mariners who use
Admiralty charts, that their job is the
most important of all.
The other day survey-sloop Barcoo
slipped quietly and unsung from Sydney,
bound Exmouth Gulf (W.A.). In good
time, after months of incredibly pains-
taking work, the Hydrographic Branch
headquartered at Pott’s Point, Sydney,
will issue a chart.
For oil interests are exploring the
regions round Exmouth Gulf, and, if they
find it, adequate port facilities for mer-
chant-ships to unload boring equipment
will be required. Which means that
merchant-ships must first be able to sail
safely into those port facilities.
When navigating up that way not long
ago, my ship had a chart on her bridge
which was a facsimile of the original
surveyed by Captain Matthew Flinders
in his sloop Investigator. Where Flinders
used a magnetic compass and hand lead-
line, Barcoo loads asdic-sets, echo-sound-
ing apparatus and gyro-compasses to
finger out her depths. Her boats are
similarly fitted.
These boats will move slowly across
the concealing > waters of Exmouth Gulf
and feel with scientific hands every
crevice, every rock and pinnacle of the
bottom’s contour. The boats are big
and powerful; with the tides sweeping
those west-coast harbors, they need to
be. A tough coating of copper protects
their bottoms from the bite of myriads of
creatures which infest tropical waters, in
which the boats will lie for weeks.
Though Barcoo herself sounds, mainly in
the deeper water at the gulf entrance,
most of her searching will be done by
the boats.
They carry a specially-selected seaman
as cox’n —coveted job—stoker for the
engine, bowman to work the boat and
cook the meals, and an officer with sex
tant and bearing-azimuth aft in the cock-
pit. Each boat shoves off at daybreak
for the long, hot day on the water.
The officer, a highly-trained specialist,
sights his hearing-mark ashore —a con-
spicuous rock or tree, or triangulStion
beacon erected by the ship—and cons the
boat along in a direct line to it. When
“on,” sounding begins. The cox’n holds
his craft dead on line ; the echo-sounder
operator starts his machine and records
depths and times; and the officer aft
takes bearings every few minutes to fix
the position of those soundings.
So it goes on all day, till darkness
hides the bearing-marks. On return to
the ship, boats’ crews secure. But the
officers eat a hurried supper and muster
in the plotting-room, for while memories
are still fresh all the day’s data must be
transferred to chart-paper at once, and
often 11 o’clock strikes before the big
light above the chart-table is switched
off and, rubbing strained eyes, they make
for their bunks'.
The boats are away at dawn next day.
Sometimes a boat-party lands on some
jungly point while the ship steams away
on another sounding-job, leaving them
with a week’s provisions. On a job like
this there is not the rigid discipline usually
associated with the Navy. It’s all hands
in, with the work made lighter by the
comradeship which its peculiar circum-
stances engender. You can’t maintain
the officer-attitude with a seaman beside
you when you’re both washing socks in
a bush-fringed creek ; nor can you have
anything but respect for an officer who,
while not obliged to, staggers through the
swamp-mud alongside you lumping his
own theodolite and share of the week’s
tucker.
Sailors love change. Which is one
reason —apart from the thumping long-
leave they get on return to a civilised
port —why the surveying-service is seldom
short of volunteers. Then, too, you can
“put the peg in” with a vengeance and
lob home with a kitty full of cash.
With the boats’ work done, back on
board all data from land and water are
correlated in the plotting-room. Bril-
liantly lit, sited in the upper-deck struc-
ture —survey-ships working mostly in the
tropics—it contains a huge table on
which each officer marks his own sound-
ings. These are first of all inked on to a
specially prepared cartridge-paper chart.
This material is so sensitive that heat
from the cluster of lights overhead could
stretch it, and it’s kept out only a limited
time. A contraction of one-eighth of an
inch on the chart could put a navigator
100 yards out on the sea —and possibly
on to a reef.
When the rough copy is finished, with
its multitudinous lines of figures, each
representing a sounding in fathoms, it is
transferred to a linen sheet. This, previ-
ously waxed for preserving purposes, can
be boiled and ironed again for further
use.
Now the sheet of shiny cloth begins to
look like a chart. Surveying-officers are
beautiful pen-men, and reefs, bays, capes,
trees and tide-rips are all inked-in with
a copperplate touch.
Then come the colors; a coral-reef
shows burnt sienna ; mangroves, green;
rocky ledges, raw sienna; sand, yellow;
and the beach, black. So that, without
explanatory notes of any kind, the carto-
graphers back at Pott’s Point have a com-
prehensive knowledge of what Exmouth
Gulf looks like, above and below water-
level.
When all the various officers’ linen
sheets are finished, these in turn are
transferred to a “collector,” a compre-
hensive chart of the same material cover-
ing the whole of the area surveyed. It is
4ft. wide. Light affects this also, so as
soon as completed it is stowed away in a
specially-dried drawer.
All this takes months, perhaps, then
the “collector,” when approved by the
captain, is sent off to the Hydrographic
Department, Sydney. Here a skilled
cartographer selects those soundings
which he thinks will most help a navi-
gator (the whole of the “collector” is
covered with a maze of figures, repre-
senting months of painstaking work, and
these must be whittled down to allow
room on the final published chart for a
ship’s course and position to be plotted),
and the chart goes to the printers.
You can buy it anywhere for a couple
of bob.
Those Holiday Suitcases
J HIS holiday it’s just you and
f the wife, going by air. Your
v j own needs are simple. Per-
sonally you feel quite capable
of touring the Commonwealth on a
pair of pyjamas and a toothbrush.
But you suppose you’ll have to bow
slightly to convention, so you drop
in a golf-shirt and a couple of
sports-shirts, four pairs of socks, a
few sets of underwear, a spare pair
of strides and shoes and a few other
odds and ends. Just half a suitcase,
Ample.
You hear the wife coming in, and,
knowing how fussy she is in these
matters, you hurriedly snap the locks
shut. She is holding some ironing
she’s had airing.
“What on earth have you got your
suitcase closed for?” she asks. “There
are all these things to go in yet. And
I have some socks I’m just sorting out.
And here are your slippers you were
leaving.” She has flung open the lid
and your perfidy is scornfully ex-
posed. “My heavens, only three
shirts! And four pairs of socks!
How long do you think they’re going
to last you?”
“Well,” you defend stoutly. “I
have one on, and that makes four
ru be taking: Anyone would think
uaracte’or Something ” man " eqUin -
The argument is quite useless.
Ruthlessly she goes through your
loughboy-drawers and soon has a
staggering stack of shirts, socks, pull-
overs, scarves, cardigans, underwear,
etc, so that you have a devil of a
job getting them in under her inex-
nr a hie supervision
, , ‘ . , ,
“There!” she says at last, the note
of unmistakable Thais
bet , te J- Th 9 ldea - f
and four pairs of socks to do you for
a lve never heard the
b |S e ' ou | tban 9 16 ving pu
al! the rest of it inwhen you get
there. Men have absolutely no idea
of the things needed w en hey are
going away.
So you wait till shes outside
pressing some frocks that will be
crushed as soon as she folds them
and puts them in her suitcase, and
you stealthily open your case again
and dump half the clobber. Fancy
taking eight shirts and a dozen pairs
of socks! Utterly ridiculous. Damn
near enough to fit out a platoon.
Anyway, if you run short its easy
enough to rub out a shirt or a pair
of socks. There s always an iron aval -
able at a guest-house. Back into the
drawers go the two long-sleeved pull-
overs. You d never need them away,
By the time you’ve finished you’ve
cut the poundage she’d selected by
half. Paying excess air-freight
doesn’t happen to be your favorite
sport.
You remind her of this, too, when
you jocularly mention that one hat
and one handbag are all she’ll want,
Later, invited to “fix these up,”
yg|i’re rocked to find two outsize
suitcases already spilling over and
beside them, awaiting the benefit of
your legerdemain, another two pairs
of shoes, a thick chenille dressing-
gown, a couple of glamorous bed-
jackets, a small pharmacy, a dozen
shoe-trees and coat-hangers, hair-
and clothes-brushes, etc. So you
call sheer muscular power to the aid
of a natural flair for stacking things,
and eventually get the lids closed,
You could, at the airport, when
Y°9 have to fork out 355. excess
freight for her cases, point out this
high cost va nity, and if one ot
your favorite pastimes is talking to
empty air, go ahead,
At the guest-house you wisely beat
her to it and start unloading and dis-
tributing in the drawers the clothes
from your own case. You finish in
three minutes. By the time you ve
strolled outside, watched a couple
of temis sets, gone up town, had a
““P le ° f and wandered the
half-mile back to the guest-house
355 ',/°“’ d P oure . d , do ™ the sink
y° u d bave a B °°d !augb at the ldl0 ‘
syncrasies of women,
Bei ore the end of the firs week
y OL | re already, on your last shir and
s °cks. But you re not worrying 11,
rnuch, anyway. You can easily u
them through. Dry m a day. But
the temperature is down in the forties
p look a bit of a goat getting
arou * d jn a short . s i eeve d shirt and
a sleeveless pullover. Remember the
i ong -sleevers you dumped?
Qn th g ninth d / y tfae wife hits the
roof when you propose going down
dinner £ th P s P me s ß hirt g Ve
been wgaring for three days . ?.. you
must bave mo re,” she says. “I put
them in myself, don’t you remem-
ber?”
jp s tbe £25 question, and you get
tbe gong — an d fi ow t So you have to
down to the township and buy two
more shifts and three pairs of socks,
didn’t come on holidays to do
any washing—she gets enough of
tbat ad tbe y ear? e tc., e tc.
You get socked about 2£ p.c. more
tban you pay f or tbe same stu g j n
tbe cdy- g ut y OU Te in the trap of.
y our own springing You even buy
a | on g. s i eeve d pullover. It might save
you f rom pneumonia—that’s if you
baven ’ t coming on already.
You were clever, weren’t you,
tricking the wife with that suitcase?
Bo.
SIX DOTS CHANGED THEIR LIVES
By M. G. COLWELL
O Latest book to be honored with
selection for transcription into Braille in
NSW is “Old Books, Old Friends, Old
Sydney,” by James R. Tyrrell.
BRAILLE, perhaps the greatest
single invention ever devised to
compensate for the handicap of
blindness, and named after its
inventor, Louis Braille, is a system 01
characters formed by using, a combina-
tion of six dots, arranged and numbered
from 1 to 6.
These signs are embossed on special
paper by hand with a “style, a sma
piece of steel about the size of akm g-
needle, with a wooden holder attached.
The dots are punched through hoi
in a perforated frame, A simple sign
e.g., a sign denoting a letter-occupies
one space or cell and t
in a line of Br . Hiffprent
It is po . y g
combinations of these six d °ts to
almost every language m ' . ’
Several diffierent h an d-mac]stud
been invented which make the writing
less tedious; they are used extensively
in England and Amenc . „ Tnanded
Louis Braille fi t p 189 q f rr>m
“die sys em in e year ,
which time onward there was a great
deal of controversy between advo-
cates of raised-letter pi in s, *
Moon-type, .invented by Dr. M
184?, and arbitrary signs,
dots. The latter method held its own,
but never fully reached the prominence
which its inventor had dreamed for it
until 1868, when a medical man. Dr.
Thomas Armitage, founded the British
and Foreign Blind Association, now
known as the National Institute, and by
adopting the system laid down by Louis
Braille helped to give this world-wide
recognition
The first complete copy of the Bible
L n nd En iS h and SSfS* I gTS-lS
volumes, ’every dot being punched by
The greatest help to early Braille-
writers was the invention in 1893 of the
stereotype machine, which made the
writing of. books much easier.
Braille has been applied to musical
notation in such a way as to make the
reading and writing quite easy. The
seven notes are represented by the last
Seven fundamental signs of the Braille
alphabet, and each of these notes may
be written in seven different octaves by
merely prefixing a sign to each octave,
and thus t h e necessity of designating the
ke y || each musical sentence in the
ordinary way is avoided,
At the beginning of the nineteenth cen-
mry there were no fewer than 23 different
met bods of writing for the blind, but
today on [y two are used, Braille and
Moon-type, the,latter method useful for
people blinded late in life,
Many unusual books have been tran-
scrjbed j n Australia over the years ; for
j nstancej Adelaide Braille-writers are at
p resent writing a South African hymn-
book in a native dialect,
1939 wdfare . work in South
Australia has taken an unusual twist, in
tha f, instead of scholars being given
secondary education in schools for the
blind, an organisation dedicated to pro-
viding University degrees for handicapped
ents sends blind and partially-sighted
. , sighted schools The
church of England Guild of Service to
the Blind considers that by doing this it
gives the sighted students a chance to be
0 f service to their fellows who are less
fortunate than themselves and> as the
blind wiU even tually have to
take t h e i r place in a sighted world and
compete with sighted people for a Uveli-
hood, they should be educated in ordinary
, ’ *
.’ . , , ... , , , .
. This mter-denommational body has
had great success m its experiment over
? ,P«iod of years The ones so far
he ped have included a la«T-er now prac-
>smg in Hobart a musician a schoo -
, and a switchboard-operator,
The first two mentioned are totally bh ,
the others partially-sighted. Two students
are at present being given secondary edu-
Bm.lle and vanom em-
The present year marks the hundred
and first anniversary of the death of
Louis Braille. Although himself blind
almost from birth he became one of
the most distinguished musicians of his
time, noted as one of the greatest
organists of Paris.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 22, 1953
VoL 74—No. 3832
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney: Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
MOSCOW MOVES
Every day it appears more certain that the
downfall of Lavrenti Beria and others with him was
not due to any change of Soviet heart or
policy, but to administrative reasons. “Pravda,”
the official organ of the Russian Communist
party, referred to Beria’s “arrogance” and his
sabotage of collective farms and industries —which may
be interpreted as a failure on his part to supply the
requisite helping of slave-labor which it has always
been the duty of the Ministry for the Interior to
provide. “Izvestia,” which is the organ of the Gov-
ernment, referred to his failures in the satellite
countries ; and as the satellite countries are a main
source of technical slave-labor the two things can be
linked.
The causes of the changes in personnel are far
more important than the changes themselves. The
Kremlin certainly would not have risked such an
upheaval at this particular stage if drastic measures
had not been needed. All information available,
though it is not much, from East Germany, Hungary,
Bulgaria and Poland point to the continuance of diffi-
culties ; to general go-slow, labor shortage, disorder
and growing hunger, which the Russians refuse to
allow to be mitigated in East Germany by the admis-
sion of supplies which the United States had decided
to send.
Decisions of the Central Committee of
the Socialist Unity party of Germany (the
Communist body which formally governs East
Germany under Russian domination) show how
serious the position still was a fortnight ago, when it
was publicly admitted in an official statement that a
“number of mistakes” had been made —for example,
“the decision concerning the new issue of ration-books,
the trustification of abandoned farms, the extra-
ordinary measures in relation to State purchases, the
rigid tax-collection, etc.” It was also admitted that
“the interests of such strata of the population as
peasants, individual traders, artisans and intelligentsia
were neglected,” and that as a result “many people left
the republic.”
These are devastating confessions from any Com-
munist regime, for under Communism it is an axiom
that everything is perfect. And perfect it obviously
is not in any satellite land, as evidenced by measures
of placation operating side by side with military action.
Viewed in the context of world events, the Russian
position does not seem encouraging for peace. The
minor concessions to freedom, such as those to the
foreign Press, and the new courtesy are merely a
sweet coating to growing hardness of the attitude of
the Soviet to Nato. Moscow’s “peace conferences”
continue to propagate hate of the United States and
France in particular and to promote class-disruption.
There has been no change in the Soviet approach to
armament or to “colonial” rebellions. Moscow exhibits
two attitudes —one to delude soft-headed Western
editors, and the other based on continuing propagation
of the thesis that peace can be obtained only by world
Communist revolution. Its actions are dictated from
day to day by the latter policy, which is the guiding
one. The policy of conciliation never goes beyond
words. The Malayan rebels are still being aided in
resistance. The Viet-minh rebels are being openly
armed from China. Peking Radio fulminates against
the brutal Wall-street warmongers whose only objec-
tive in life is the conquest of China.
And at the moment when the United States
emissary with great tact and patience had allayed the
fears of Dr, Syngman Rhee, and negotiations with the
Chinese-N. Korean command seemed at a point at
which there need be no further impediment to an
armistice agreement, an enemy attack was launched
on so large a scale that it is certain it must have been
the subject of long and mountainous preparation. It
is an attack which already has cost thousands of lives
on both sides, and which threatened the integrity of the
Allied line.
There seems to be little doubt that it is linked to
world rather than local issues. It is the Communist
assurance to Asia of Russo-Chinese strength and
power to strike. It may even be more than that. Read
in conjunction with the haste to get the harvest in in
Eastern Europe, the attempts to lull the West into a
feeling of security, the reorganisation of internal
security and labor power in the U.S.S.R. and the
abnormally early presentation of the Budget at the
DEVOURING ITS OWN
second meeting of the Supreme Soviet, which has been
called together abruptly, this attempt to engage Western
power in Asia is not a good augury for the Four-
Power Conference—if there should be a four-Power
conference. And there is some danger that the only
cement which can solidify the Russian bloc might be a
opnpral call to arms
® ' '
Power Over Power
said, were loth to part with their electricity undertaking
because it was profitable. He did not believe this
essential service should be run for profit; any surplus
earned should go back to the consumers by way of
reduced charges. When a member asked whether
uniformity would mean that consumers who were
previously getting their electricity at a lower rate
would be deprived of that benefit, Mr. Cahill said
“No. The Government hopes that this bill will bring
cheaper electricity for all”
Three years have elapsed since those pious hopes
were uttered; they remain, if at all, pious hopes. In
one respect Mr. Cahill’s wishes have been gratified.
He doesn’t believe public undertakings of this nature
should be run for profit—and this one isn’t. The
commission’s first report and balance-sheets have
recently been published, covering the period from its
establishment on May 22, 1950, to June 30, 1952.
Southern Electricity, the first of the four producers to
be taken over, was swallowed on November 1, 1950,
so the commission had been operating its plant for
eight months by the time the first balance-sheet was
prepared ; the loss for the period ended June 30, 1951,
was £6750. Sydney County Council plant and trans-
mission-lines —Bunnerong, Pyrmont and all that —were
acquired on January 1, 1952; the loss for the year
ended June 30, 1952, was £427,746. Up to that stage
the Railways Department were still operating their
own plant, of which Mr. Cahill had said, almost com-
plainingly, that it was showing a profit. The com-
mission took it over on January 1, 1953, and although
no figures are available for the financial year just
ended, it seems pretty obvious that Mr. Cahill will
have nothing to complain of on that score this time.
That, at any rate, seems to be the only conclusion that
can be drawn from the fact that in April last the com-
mission decided to increase its charges for bulk elec-
tricity by 11 p.c. Price to the consumer goes up on
August 1. On July 1 the price of gas dropped by 3 p.c.
One of the complaints made by the County
Council was that the increase was made without any-
one knowing how the charges were arrived at; the
commission merely announced the increase, and that
was that. A similar attitude is apparent in the
announcement that the commission has made new
industrial agreements with its wages- and salaried-
staffs, granting increases which it is estimated will
cost the commission £550,000 a year. ‘ Cost the
commission” is a euphemism; the increases will cost
the consumers £550,000 a year.
The main point about this wages-agreement is
that it was negotiated outside the Arbitration Court,
and merely filed with the Industrial Registrar as a cut-
and-dried agreement. It gives employees in a concern
which is already operating at a loss rates of pay higher
than those received by their fellow-unionists doing
the same type of job in private industry. And it
gives the increases at a time when the general policy
of the courts and conciliation commissioners is to
refuse increases in margins. As the commission is “in
all respects subject to the direction and control of the
Minister” (Mr. Cahill’s words), it can only be assumed
that this sidestepping of arbitration is the deliberate
and conscious policy of the N. S. Wales Government.
If there is one word in the bright lexicon of “Labor”
more blessed than “board,” it is surely “commission”
—except, of course, when it carries a regal prefix.
That partly explains why the term of the N. S. Wales
Parliament which saw a “Labor” Premier appointed
to the chairmanship of the Maritime Services Board,
and other “Labor” stalwarts elevated to similar posts
of authority with the Milk Board and the Hunter
District Water Board, should also be memorable for
the establishment of the Electricity Commission.
Before the commission was set-up in 1950 the
production of electricity in New South Wales was
almost entirely in the hands of four authorities. These
were:
(1.) Sydney County Council, which generated the
bulk of the electricity used in the metropolitan area.
(2.) Department of Railways, which produced
electricity for the running of its trains and trams
and sold its surplus power to outer-suburban coun-
cils and local-government bodies as far west as
Dubbo and as far north as Kempsey.
(3.) Southern Electric Supply, working under the
aegis of the Public Works Department and supply-
ing light and power to a large sUce of southern
N. S. Wales.
(4.) The Electric Eight and Power Supply Cor-
poration, Etd., usually known as the Balmain
Company from the location of its powerhouse. This
coTuttrn looked after five municipalities in its own
vicmxty and others in the Parramatta district.
There were also small power-plants in various
parts of the State, but their combined output was
very small; the four undertakings listed above pro-
duced between them 94 per cent, of the State’s
electrical power.
The Electricity Commission was formed “to
acquire and operate the major power-generating
organisations.... and to weld them into one system
capable of supplying the bulk needs of substantially
all electricity-distributors in the State and of all other
bulk users, notably the Department of Railways.” In
introducing the bill to establish the commission,
Premier Cahill, then Minister for Local Government,
said that this “must result in a more efficient and
economic supply of electricity.” Eulogising the Gov-
ernment-owned Southern Electricity Supply, in whose
area he claimed the charge for electricity was 10 p.c.
lower than in 1941-42, he said that the commission
would really be Southern Electric with the other
systems added to it, and that “by efficient work it will
be able to supply electricity more cheaply than at
present.”
Efficiency and cheaper power were the twin key-
notes of Mr. Cahill’s whole speech. The railways, he


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Wheat Position
Federal and State Ministers for Agri-
culture are to have another go at wheat-
stabilisation next Monday, though how
far they will get is another matter. The
world position of wheat just now can
only be described as fluid, which is
largely a way of saying that nobody
knows what’s going to happen.
Three definite aspects, all related, are
that the world stocks are very high, the
market is pretty dull just now, and
Britain will not commit itself to fixed
prices until it sees how the cat jumps.
Canadian Bureau of Economics
reported that wheat in the four export-
ing countries —Canada, U.S.A., Argentina
and Australia —for export and carry-over
totalled 1264 million bushels, nearly
double the quantity of a year ago. U.K.
High Commissioner Holmes must have
had this in mind when he told the Wheat-
growers’ Union that Britain was justified
in refusing to sign the new International
Wheat Agreement because it was trying
to save dollars, had increased its own
production by 20 million bushels and its
total land-production by 50 p.c.
Mr. R. Tadman, a wheat-man from
Britain out here to confer with the Aus-
tralian Wheat Board, explained the
“current slackness in wheat-trading” as
due to possibility of peace in Korea,
approach of the European harvest, and
the switch from Government to private
buying in the U.K. The British Food
Ministry has large stocks of wheat, and
if U.K. millers are to take them over
“there would be no need to buy wheat
now.”
Further, there was an “easing in. wheat
prices” because North America was sell-
ing much low-grade wheat at “discounts
of up to 30 cents a bushel,” but he ex-
pects the market to pick up in October,
and “there is no need for Australia to
worry about selling her wheat.”
Growers aren’t worrying about selling
it, but about what they’ll get for it.
Two growers’ organisations are holding
out for a home price of 165., another
supports the N.S.W. Government plan
for 15s. (that is, 15s. until the I.W.A.
price falls below that, home price to
move down as I.W.A. price moves down,
but home price not to go below cost of
production). I.W.A. provides a maxi-
mum of 18s. and minimum of 13s.
10d., and, according to Mr. Tadman,
“free” wheat is now below the I.W.A,
maximum. Hitherto it has always been
2s. or more better.
This, and other things, comprises a
pretty deep puzzle for the makers of
stabilisation plans. There will be no
more bulk-buying from Australia by the
British Food Ministry, and even if the
Australian Wheat Board continues to
control all Australian wheat it will hence-
forth have to sell it cargo by cargo to
various U.K. private buyers. Running
stabilisation under those conditions looks
like being a prickly job.
Korean Contrasts
“Ek Dum” : While the peace-talks continued
perfunctorily at Panmunjon the Chinese
launched a savage series of attacks on a 15-
mile front in Central Korea, on the eastern
flank of a bulge into the North Korean-Chinese
lines north of Kumhwa and Chorwon. This
is well above the 38th Parallel, and the existence
of such a salient has been a sore matter with
the Communists. Through its centre runs the
main road on the eastern central side of the
front from Kumsong to Seoul.
The breaking of either hinge of this bulge
would naturally have very serious effects on
the whole line, since it would enable the enemy
actually to drive behind half of the Allied
positions in the direction of Seoul. It would
mean retreat and division of the U.N.O. forces
and create a very dangerous position. The
- Allied line is not very deeply held anywhere
in relation to the needs of the situation.
The attack was very sudden, and was believed
to have been carried put with a force of about
a Chinese division to a mile —100,000 men in
all. Since there are parts of the Allied line
which are normally manned by only a division
to ten miles or more the dangers of the position
are obvious. The attack was preceded by the
customary Russian-type bombardment by an
artillery division, massed to concentrate on
limited breaching-points.
After the initial onslaught a second was
made on the new line of the Allies, and it
was reported on July 15 that it had suc-
ceeded, as well as that of the day before.
Meanwhile General Maxwell Taylor, C.-in-C.
of the Eighth Army, had flown up and assumed
command in person. Artillery and bombers
had been assembled by the Americans to cover
the areas in front of the Second South Korean
Army, which had borne the full weight of
the first assaults. Rain helped, but even in
these circumstances it was a measure of the
new strength of the South Korean Army, which
has not before had experience of such a battle,
that it was able to reform, stop further pene-
tration for long enough for artillery and air
support to be built up on an adequate scale,
and eventually begin to thrust the Communists
back at specific points of danger.
A heavy censorship blacked-out operations
after the arrival at the front of General
Maxwell Taylor, But towards the end of the
week it appeared that a huge artillery fight
was in progress, that the Communists had
failed either to widen or deepen the breaches
which they made initially, that the South
Koreans, with U.S. support, had been able to
regroup, and that some heavy spearheads, one
by 17,000 enemy troops aimed at the big road-
junction of Kumhwa, had been driven back.
Casualties were reported on July 1 1 to be heavy
on both sides.
Meanwhile a large counter-operation had been
launched —one report said with 45,000 troops
—evidently intended to roll up the end of the
new Chinese positions on the eastern side near
the Pukhan River. But the Chinese had erupted
on the western side of the bulge, a move also
aimed at Kumhwa, which could be more
dangerous than the drive on the east side.
However, on July 19, when the Press heard
that the Communists at Panmunjon had “agreed
to begin discussions with the Allies on prepara-
tions for signing an immediate armistice,” the
battle, the largest for two years, was almost
forgotten. In columns about the palaver
of the negotiators, giving the impression
that the war was nearly over —which it isn’t
necessarily even if a cease-fire is signed—a
couple of four-line paragraphs were hidden
saying that heavy fighting still continued in
Central Korea, that the Chinese continued to
pour reinforcements into the area but that the
South Koreans continued to press them back.
On July 20 it was reported that the armistice
was “hours or days away.”
The MeKell Pension
“Actuarius” : Ex-G.G. MeKell has been
granted a pension of £9 a week under
the N.S.W. Parliamentary Pension Fund.
If he has paid all along his contribution
of £2 ss. a week for approximately seven
years —that is, from May, 1946 —he will
have paid in £Bl9 for a pension of £468
a year.
He will draw out the whole of his
contribution in less than two years. He
is 61 years old, at Which age the expec-
tation of life is 14.7 years. Men of that
age would, on the average, each draw out
£6BBO over the rest of their lives. The
cost of such a pension, if effected with a
life-assurance office, would be round
about £5950, so that, in return for an
expenditure of £Bl9, Sir William MeKell
derives a pension worth nearly £6OOO,
not to mention the continuance of pension
to his wife should she survive him.
The Act was severely criticised at the
time of its introduction on the point that
the members’ contributions were totally
inadequate to provide the very generous
pensions: but the MeKell Government
chose to follow the advice of “bush
actuaries,” the result being that the ex-
Governor-General now has to be sub-
sidised by every one of us.
Communist Party Raided
Last week, amid its universal snarls of
hate against everybody not engaged in
sedition, ballot-rigging or industrial
sabotage, the “Tribune,” official organ of
the Communist party, printed a story that
the agents of the Commonwealth Security
Department “had approached members of
the Communist party offering bribes for
information.”
Mr. Adam Ogston, the party’s own
“security” man, the author of its official
thesis on methods of illegal action and
conspiracy which was quoted at length
at the Victorian royal commission on
Communism, said “This blatant approach
to myself shows how desperate the
Security are to get pimps and traitors in
the Communist party.”
Last week Commonwealth Investiga-
tion obviously had other resources. Its
men, uniformed and otherwise, descended
on the “Tribune,” the Communist party,
the Eureka Youth League, the Newsletter
Printery (which prints the “Tribune” and
a gambling rag), the home of Mr. Ogston
and of the publisher of the “Tribune”
and its chief political writer. They acted
under Section 10 of the Crimes Act, and
their proceedings were planned four
weeks before in order (it was announced)
to secure evidence of deliberate attempts
by the Communist party to foment rolling-
strikes on the wharves (to which its
official Press has given a vituperative sup-
port), and also of its efforts to frustrate
the Arbitration Court in its conduct of
union ballots. The raids occupied four
hours, and an attempt by the “Tribune”
to secure an injunction from Mr. Justice
Myers, of the N. S. Wales Supreme Court,
failed.
Whether evidence is secured or not,
the underground proceedings of the party,
through satellite “peace councils,” unions,
youth councils and other false fronts,
continue to advertise how right the Men-
zies Government was in 1949 when it
pledged itself to declare the party illegal.
It continues to be a cancer in the heart
of the community, the agent of the enemy
who is killing Australians in Korea. It
is seeking to sow not only distrust, indus-
trial unrest and class-war, but seeds of a
third world war.
The “Labor” party has much to answer
for in that it still allies itself to bodies
whose leaders permit Communism to use
them as a harbor. The day may come
when it may bitterly regret that allowed
Dr. Evatt’s “liberalism” to lead it into
fighting the 1951 referendum. The Com-
munist party will show its gratitude,
if it has the chance, by destroying the
industrial “Labor” movement through
Kremlin-designed tactics such as those in
use on the wharves.
Helping the "Mug Copper"
The deplorable attitude of too many
Australians to the police, which is ex-
pressed in hooting and sometimes attack
when a policeman is struggling with an
arrested person, was shockingly illustrated
in Melbourne. There, at one of the
city’s busiest spots, a violent man knocked
the arresting policeman unconscious. A
second policeman, amidst hoots for him-
self and shouted encouragement for his
attacker, was getting the worst of it
when a single civilian came to his aid
and the violent person was subdued. The
civilian was loudly abused by the on-
lookers.
It then turned out that the arrested
man was a “powerfully built” mental
patient who had just escaped from an
institution and was roaming the city
armed with a knife. Possibly some of the
hooters had the grace to be ashamed
when they learned that; none of them
would feel shame if he had been merely
a criminal, sane and trying to escape
arrest.
This kink in the character of a people
who, the moment they themselves are
attacked or robbed or threatened, yell
for the police has been so apparent for
so long that it worries sociologists and
most decent citizens. It doesn’t seem to
worry some “Labor” politicians and
union heads, whose creed for many years
is that the police , are “the hirelings of
capitalism, protectors of ill-gotten pro-
perty” and so forth, and whose teaching
is a bad feature of unionism.
The heartening aspect of the Mel-
bourne affair is that the courageous
citizen is a New Australian, named Steve
f Ovcar. He couldn’t understand why
nobody helped the police, nor why the
crowd abused him when he did so. Aus-
tralians have .frequently resented the
efforts of newcomers to change national
habits and customs. Do they resent Mr.
Ovcar’s refusal to join in the habit of
putting the boot into the police?
Sydney's Wharves
After a silence so complete that one
could be excused for thinking it sur-
rounded the Chief of Naval Operations
instead of the Chairman of the Maritime
Services Board, the McGrrrrr made a
brief announcement last week. He said
that owing to a reduction in the board’s
revenue, caused by credit-control and
import-restrictions, it would be necessary
to dismiss some of his staff. He didn’t
go into details, but later in the day one
of his colleagues of the M. 5.8., Mr. J.
Shortell, who is also president of the
Trades and Labor Council, informed
that body that 113 men would be dis-
missed and that the board intended to
ask the N. S. Wales Government to pass
legislation to empower the board to
increase its port charges by 50 per cent.
Mr. Shortell’s news brought protests
from the representatives of the unions
concerned and recriminations against
absent Premier Cahill, one union-sec-
retary claiming that J.J. had solemnly
promised that he wouldn’t tolerate sack-
ings or retrenchment. No Trades and
Labor Councillor seemed to see anything
unusual in the proposal to raise port
charges by 50 per cent., although such
action must inevitably result in increased
freights and ultimately higher living-costs.
Their sole concern was to find ways of
keeping the 113 men on the payroll
whether there was work for them to do
or not.
If Chairman McGrrrrr is right and
reduced shipping has made the dismissals
necessary, it would be interesting to know
what the 113 men have been doing during
the past year. After all, the falling-off
in imports occurred in the year just
closed, not next year, when with the
easing of import-restriction there should
be an increase in oversea tonnage visiting
Sydney.
Until two years ago the Maritime Ser-
vices Board always showed a surplus on
its workings. Over the years its profits
have amounted to a very considerable
sum, but there has been no attempt to
pass this on to the shipping industry in
reduced charges even though the slow
turn-round of ships since the war has
added immensely to every vessel’s bill for
port-charges, to the profit of the board.
If shortage of loan-money for exten-
sion of wharves and so on is the reason
for the dismissals, McGrrrrr and Cahill
must share the blame. Both were well
aware twelve months ago that loan-spend-
ing on the lavish scale they desired was
a thing of the past. It is to be hoped that
the unions affected will realise that the
chickens now coming home to roost were
hatched in McGrrrrr-Cahill incubators.
Parking and Traffic
Every now and then somebody comes
back from America and announces that
“many big cities over there have met the
parking problem by installing parking-
meters so the motorist can park for several
minutes by paying a small fee,” and every
now and then some transport authority
here dabbles with the notion of sticking
the things along our streets.
These people have the bull by the tail.
Parking-meters don’t solve parking or
traffic problems. All they do is collect
revenue from those who do park. They
are more likely to increase congestion—
they certainly wouldn’t lessen it —because
it isn’t hard to visualise a line of parked
cars by meters and other cars loafing
about waiting for a chance to get in to a
meter.
A far more realistic view is taken by
S. H. Bingham, boss of the New York
Board of Transportation. He has been
invited to Adelaide to advise on the
Metropolitan Tramways Trust’s “10-year
plan,” and an “Advertiser” correspondent
in New York promptly had words with
the gentleman. Some of them:
What are streets for, anyhow? Are they
outdoor parking-garages or are they routes
for quick and easy movement of people
and goods®? In the ideal city no private
cars would be allowed to drive along the
main central streets—let alone park there—
except in emergencies. For people who
work or shop in such a city’s centre there
would be only three ways to reach offices
and shops: by foot, by subway train, or
by big buses The mania for jamming
private cars into main city streets will
inevitably lead to a collapse in property
values in the centres of all cities. That
will lead to decentralisation, as shops and
offices move to suburban centres, which
will in turn lead to congestion in the
suburbs and so on, endlessly, until we all
return to the caves.
Well, there’s so much room outside the
Australian capitals that the bats can keep
the caves for a fair while. If the motor-
car can force decentralisation in this
manner, all the better. And there is
evidence now, in Sydney and Melbourne
at least, of movement of business away
from the city’s heart —a movement
helped, incidentally, by the growing
Government habit of grabbing large city
blocks for the housing of the multiplying
bureaucracy.
All the same, the American’s words
bear thinking about. Our biggest cities
are so built that the spectacular increase
in motor-vehicles has caught them nap-
ping. To concentrate on the parking
aspect is merely to seek ways of making
the present congestion worse. Even in
quiet suburban streets there is now con-
gestion by night, many of them being
lined on both sides by parked cars and
trucks from dark to dawn.
In thickly-populated centres not park-
ing, but the easy flow of traffic through
the area, is the most important thing, and
until something is done about it parking
should be a minor consideration. In
other words, a completely new approach
is needed.
Uneasy "Labor" Heads -
The doings of the A.L.P. Federal
Executive in Melbourne last week pro-
vided a clear picture of the unhappy
muddle in which “Labor” finds itself.
Almost everything else seemed to be sub-
ordinated to the faction-fight or class-
war now in progress between Right and
Left, of which the chief manifestation
was the struggle for the general-secretary-
ship held by Senator J, P. Kennelly.
The A.L.P. is just now fanatically con-
cerned with the unrighteousness of
allowing members of Parliament to hold
paid offices in the A.L.P. —a matter about
which it has not troubled its head in a
generation. But this with the party is
scarcely a matter of right or wrong, but
of something on which the issues of a
good fight between Right and Left can
be hung. In the excitement of bundling
out Senator Kennelly, and preparing to
replace him by W. P. Colbourne, the
darling of the “Right wing,” issues
which the Federal Parliamentary party
has declared urgently important to the
country’s security and the success of
Socialism have been brushed aside im-
patiently.
One was the matter of the sale of the
Commonwealth’s socialistic enterprises,
such as A.W.A. and C.O.R. These sales
{Continued on page 7)


See the “Farmers’ Boy” exhibit at Buzacott’s Machinery
Display at the Boyal Brisbane Show.
mm
■■m
The “Farmers’ Boy” with Rotary Hoe attached
“FARMERS’ BOY” Series II: Mark XII Xj h.p. Villiers Engine.
Standard Equipment: 3 Cultivating teeth, 2 hoeing blades, lOin.
Tool-bar, 3 universal standards, and power take-off.
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
“FARMERS’ BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit for Almost Every Purpose
Rotary Scythe.
Paspalum guillotined I
'C
Plough
Lawnmowef
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W. : GRAZCOS Co.-op. Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney.
Victoria : GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 90 William St., Melbourne
Q’land: BUZAOOTT’S (Q’land) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
8.A.: CLUTTERBUCK BROS. Ltd., 61-63 Bindley St. Adelaide,
W.A. and Tasmania: Distributors to be appointed.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
-a*
Generator Cutter
Other attachments include:
SPRAYER, COMPRESSOR for inflating
tyres, spray-painting, etc., FURROWER,
TRAILER, SAWBENCH, DUSTER,
MILKING MACHINE AND DISC
HARROWS.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to Hour State Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “FARMERS’
BOY” and ACCESSORIES;
NAME
ADDRESS
hit “Labor’s” plans fairly in the solar-
plexus, since they represent specific re-
treats from Socialism. Conference also
shelved the matter of Constitutional
reform and deferred the expressions of
views on defence and New Guinea pend-
ing preparation of a report.
This coy reluctance to tackle major
questions was not without reason. The
elections of officers showed a definite
split in the party. Mr, Colbourne and
the principles he represents belong to
Dr. Evatt. Mr. Calwell is in Senator
Kennelly’s corner. And it is regarded
as a triumph for Dr. Evatt’s Right-wing
that his man won and that the presidency
of the Federal A.L.P. was secured by
the crusted Tory, D. Lovegrove, once
the pride and joy of the Communist
party, but now apparently anathema to
it, with nothing remaining of Com-
munism in his make-up save his tech-
nique.
His election will not add to the
harmony of the party, since he is head
of the A.L.P. industrial-groups. At the
mention of these, sterling democrats like
Clyde Cameron and E. J. Ward are apt
to froth at the mouth. Mr. Lovegrove
was the initiator of the move to oust
Senator Kennelly.
Dr. Evatt, who is due home this week,
may feel before the year is out that his
victories have not added to his comfort.
They will certainly add to the general
confusion. “Labor,” even if united, is
not in too happy a position in the Federal
Parliament. It has no fewer than 11
members suffering in some degree from
illness or the infirmities of old age, and
the action of Dr. Evatt in interfering in
two strikes by militant unions in N. S.
Wales railway workshops and on the
Brisbane wharves during the Senate cam-
paign has resulted in the ungrateful Left
unions marking him down for relega-
tion to the political ash-can.
POLITICAL POINTS
Any attempt to enrol the people who
ran the “Save the Rosenbergs” campaign
in a “Save Beria” campaign will be met
with stony silence.
• •
Latest quarterly adjustment in the basic
wage seems to merit Treasurer Fadden’s
comment that “the long, hard battle
against inflation is being won” and that
“comparative stability” is being achieved.
New figures, to take effect from August
1, are;
Increase. New rate.
Sydney .. .. 2s. £l2 3s.
Melbourne .. .. 3s. £ll 15s.
Brisbane .. .. Is. £lO 18s.
Adelaide .. .. 3s. £ll 11s.
Perth* .. .. ss. £ll 16s.
Hobart .. .. 3s. £l2 2s.
Six capitals .. .. 2s. £ll 16s.
The trend is, of course, still upward,
but in comparison with the bounding
leaps recorded during 1951 and for the
first three quarters of 1952, the rise is,
from the point of view of the nation’s
economy, gratifyingly small. In Sydney
the average quarterly increase during
1951 was 10s. 6d.; for the first three
quarters of 1952, 9s. 6d. The November
adjustment last year (25.) was the first
one to give any grounds for assuming
that inflation was being got under con-
trol ; subsequent figures have been Is.,
3s. and 25., so that the 2s. average has
now been maintained for four periods.
• •
The passing last week of Dan Mulcahy,
M.H.R. for Lang (N.S.W.), brings to 11
the number of Federal Parliamentary
deaths since the general election a little
over two years ago. The Government
parties have lost W. M. Hughes (Brad-
field), E. J. Eggins (Lyne), R. S, Ryan
(Flinders), A. McDonald (Corangamite),
Senator Piesse (W.A.) and Senator
Chamberlain (Tas.). Gaps in “Labor’s”
ranks were left by J. B. Chifley (Mac-
quarie), H. P. Lazzarini (Werriwa), J. S.
Rosevear (Dailey), D. Mulcahy (Lang)
and Senator Nash (W.A.).
• •
Speaker Cameron is back from the
Coronation. His first job will be to fix
a date for by-elections in Corangamite
(Vic.) and Lang (N.S.W.). No changes
in party strengths are anticipated as a
result of the two polls, but there will be
an interest in the voting figures as a
pointer to next year’s general election.
• •
In 1951 Liberal Allan McDonald won
Corangamite by 6500 votes and Dan
Mulcahy held Lang for “Labor” by 2000
votes over the Liberal candidate, while
a Communist polled another 2000. Gov-
ernment members are naturally hopeful
for confirmation of their belief that the
improved showing of the Liberals in
Assembly by-elections in Dulwich Hill
(N.S.W.) and Malvern (Vic.) will be
repeated in the Federal field.
• •
Self-taught constitutionalists of the
daily Press have been criticising what
they call the “delay” in fixing the date
of the Corangamite by-election. One of
’em wrote:
Critics of the delay say Mr. Cameron
could have fixed the date by cable....
Some go so far as to suggest that Mr.
Cameron. may have received a hint from
interested quarters that there is no need
for urgency . . ,
Surely someone of his paper could have
told him that the Speaker cannot issue
writs of any description while outside the
Commonwealth. During his absence
from Australia writs are issued by the
Governor-General in Council —as pro-
vided in the Constitution.
• •
Statisticians’ reports say that June was
the fifth month in succession showing
increased employment. If Menzies thinks
he will get any thanks for that from
“Labor,” which is always so worried
about workers being without work, he’s
got another think coming.
• •
At a meeting of Commonwealth Bank
Officers held to protest against the Bank
board’s refusal to grant salary increases
one speaker was reported as saying, in
support of his claim for a rise, “We have
to wear suiting of a superior quality to
those in lesser occupations.” There was
a time when the highest recommendation
a tailor could aspire to was “By vice-
THE ELECTRIC CHAIR
regal appointment.” Presumably he
nowadays boasts of his cloth “as supplied
to officers of the Commonwealth Bank,”
• •
The faction-fight in the Federal A.L.P.
is not a faction-fight at all if what W. R.
Colbourne, one of the leading lights of
the side currently on top, has to say is
correct. In bis words “the chief concern
of th& officers will be to maintain com-
plete unity within the movement.”
Broadly speaking, that is usually the aim
of every contending faction —with the
proviso that the unity shall be maintained
under its particular authority. There’s
one catch in the Colbourne statement —
unity has to be achieved before it can
be maintained.
• •
The warning of Brisbane’s former Lord
Mayor Chandler that the intrusion of
party politics into municipal affairs could
mean the ruination of local-government
is borne out by Sydney’s experience since
“Labor” forced its amalgamation policy
on suburban and near-city municipalities.
The essence of local-government shouia
be the personal loyalty of aldermen and
councillors to their own municipality,
under “Labor” control this is subordi-
nated to the interests of the party.
For Sydney City Council elections the
whole A.L.P. organisation is thrown into
the field with all the paraphernalia or
preselection ballots, party-pledges and so
forth. Nominations for preselection tor
“Labor” endorsement at the December
election have just closed. There are 43
in the race ; they include A.W.U. general-
secretary Dougherty and one-time Lang
M.H.R. for Reid, Joe Gander.
• •
Victoria now has a Seed Bean
Marketing Board.
• •
Remember how the Comrades shrieked
a year or so ago about the “onus of
proof”? Sydney “Tribune,” echoing the
official hymn of hate against Beria, says,
among other things,
Beria has been expelled from the
C.P.S.U., removed from his positions and
sent for trial because he entered the service
of the warmongers, the enemies of the
working-class and of Socialism.
No worry about onus of proof there.
Beria has been sent for trial, so every
good Communist in Russia and Australia
knows that he must be guilty.
• •
Discussing the presidency of the
Senate, the “West Australian” mentions
Senators Mattner and McLeay and then
cpmments that Senator O’Sullivan,
“another South Australian,” may also
contest the post. The Minister for Cus-
toms hails, of course, from the same State
as that well-known West Australian
S’Artie Fadden.
• •
Copies of Russian papers received in
Sydney last week show how uneasily
crowned heads must lie in Russia even
when they seem most secure—Anne
Boleyn and Katharine Howard didn’t
fall as suddenly as Comrade Beria. In
the first fortnight of June the unfortunate
Comrade was still being featured in the
Moscow Press as one of the main foun-
tains of wisdom. “Pravda” on June
10-11 mentioned “the essential features
of the policy of the Communist party—
the Russian people’s mentor and guide—
as set out in the utterances of Georgi
Malenkov, Lavrenti Beria and V. M.
Molotov.” And the “Communist” about
the same time referred its readers to the
utterances of the sacred three at the 19th
Congress last year for the cofrect view-
point on the question of “collective
leadership.” But a few days afterwards
it was noticed that Mr. Beria was not at
public functions and that there were an
unusual lot of tanks and troops about
even for Moscow.
• •
N. S. Wales coal-production for the
half-year just ended was 830,000 tons
short of the figure for the first six months
of 1952. The closing-down of several
open cut mines was responsible for
483,000 tons of this; strikes were to
blame for most of the rest, with the John
Darling dispute the biggest single factor.
• ' •
Early last week the Victorian L.-C.P.
told the Press what it was going to do
to the Hollway Liberals at an executive
meeting. The H.L.’s, if they read the
stuff, might have been scared stiff. The
meeting was duly held, followed by an
announcement that the rebels would be
“given an opportunity to explain their
actions.” This was after “extraordinary
measures were taken to maintain the
secrecy of the discussions.”
• •
Professor H. Messel, at 8 o’clock this
evening (22nd), in Ferguson Hall, Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney, will discuss the
importance of utilising atomic energy
for industrial power purposes, with
special reference to Australian condi-
tions. The Australian Institute of Inter-
national Affairs is arranging the talk.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Balshag”: One of the queerest strikes
on record must have been that of the
Cornish miners at Moonta (S.A.) in the
1860's. They downed tools because they
didn’t like the manager. Their daily
strike meetings were opened with prayers
for his dismissal and closed with a hymn
and a benediction. “Ef they won’t sack
un, Looard, we won’t work” was their
theme. “We cannot, at the dictation of
the miners, commit the injustice of dis-
charging our present manager,” replied
the directors. So on went the strike, the
miners remaining firm until at last the
directors announced the “resignation” of
the manager. “That’ll tell ’ee what
m
prayer’ll do,” said a ring-
leader at a victory cele-
bration. Came the after-
math in the form of a
religious revival. Night
after night, for weeks,
the chapels were crowded
with penitents crying for
mercy. Altogether 1200
were “brought in” and in
the final result galleries
had to be built into the
chapels to provide suffi-
cient seating accommoda-
tion. But that took
money, so to help foot the
bill the miners broke up
their union and handed
over all the cash to the
building-fund. Those were
the days before faith was
undermined by science.
♦♦♦ *** ❖
“Postscript”: So far,
civic - minded agitators
have only demanded the
restoration of , Sydney’s
G.P.O. clock-tower I
wonder what would hap-
pen if somebody with a
bit of weight behind him
asked to see the clock-
tower? An alert little bird
which regularly hovers
over Maroubra reckons
that many of the stones,
especially the deeply-carven ones, are
broken; while the various markings
on them indicating their respective posi-
tions in the original edifice seem to be
obliterated. One guess is as good as
another, but mine is that, costs aside,
the G.P.O. clock-tower now represents
a problem requiring an architectural
stonemason with the omniscience of a
jigsaw-puzzle addict.
♦ ❖ ❖
“Bihari Bill”: On the wall of an RIA.F.
mess near Ranchi, India, there used to be
a boomerang. Near each tip was a
silver band ; one engraved “Tiny”
and the other “Midge.” Air
Force types from all parts of the
Empire put in some time there,
among them two Aussies who bore
those names. It was known that
the big Australian made a hobby
of boomerang-throwing, and t one
night he was asked to give an
informal lecture on the art. After
some preliminary chatter Tiny
produced his best missile and pro-
ceeded to claim for it both the
possible and the impossible. Midge
faded from the room a little while
before Tiny stated that, though the
night was dark, he could throw the
boomerang through the window
on the right and it would return
through the window on the left.
He didn’t even wait for the window
to be opened; and crash went the
window on the right! After suffi-
cient time for the weapon to soar
to the stated height of 300 ft. and
return via numerous ever-widening
circles, the large pane of glass to
the left suddenly smashed to frag-
ments and the boomerang fell at
Tiny’s feet. A few weeks later,
Tiny and Midge passed out to-
gether. It seemed fitting to keep
green their memory by hanging
the bit of wood on the wall.
❖ ❖ *X*
“Bagot”: Educational values of
radio? “Who killed Cock Robin
in the nursery rhyme?” asked the
quizmaster. No reply, so came the
prompting: “Come on, you know, blank
said the blank with my blank and blank.”
Then, brain whirling with slings and
arrows, the contestant beat the gong by
a split-second and blurted: “David!”
♦J* ❖ ❖
“Applex”; Outside the church the
notice proclaimed “Next Sunday! Hell-
fire ! All welcome.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Uramao”: Despite his eccentricities
George Budd, Conan Doyle’s associate
(B. 3/6/’53), was a born advertiser. “The
finest advertisement is an offended patient”
was his tenet. If the insulted one hap-
pened to be a woman “she runs cackling
among her friends until your name be-
comes a household word ; they all pre-
tend to sympathise with her and agree
“A lock of hair to remind me of YOU,
Squadron-leader.”
among themselves that you must be a
remarkably discerning man,” George
assured Doyle. He said that if he set
up in Harley-street with easy hours from
ten to four, he’d starve. “How would I
work it? I’d let it be known that I
only saw patients from midnight to two
in the morning, and that bald-headed
people must pay double. That wou d set
people talking; their curiosity would be
stimulated and in four months the street
would be blocked.” He assured Doyle
that once a man who consulted
him about his gall-duct was thrown
downstairs; the whole town talked about
it and patients came trooping to his
surgery.
♦♦♦ * ❖
“Irving”; If you’re looking for a fight
suggest to a beret-topped Armored
Corpsman or paratrooper that there’s
something feminine about his headgear.
“His temperature is going up again , doctor."
Yet the beret as worn by fighting men
of H.M. Forces is an outright steal from
the fair sex, the theft being engineered in
1917 when some officers of the Royal
Tank Corps in France were discussing
the adoption of a distinctive headgear.
The berets of the Tiralleurs Alpins, raised
in Brittany, or the Chars d’Assaut from
the Basque provinces were first-favorites,
and samples were enthusiastically supplied
by the crack French units. But the
Breton headglar was voted too sloppy ;
that of the Basques, too skimpy. At
this stage the girls’ schools of Britain
were circularised, with a resultant inun-
dation of the War Office with models,
from which was selected the dashing top-
piece of the Royal Tank Corps.
♦j, ♦♦♦ ***
“A.H.W.”; Next month marks the
hundredth anniversary of the founding
of the world’s most famous small-arms
school, the small-arms wing of the School
of Infantry at Hythe. Originally founded
as the School of Musketry, the school
has set a standard of shooting second to
none. At a recent demonstration an
American officer was astounded when
one of the instructors chalked up 35 hits
in one minute with the ordinary service
rifle. The school is staffed by the second-
smallest corps in the British army, the
Small Arms School Corps. After the
adoption of the Minie rifle, which was
effective to about 600yds., in contrast to
the 40yd. effective range of “Brown
Bess” and the 300 yd. of the Baker rifle,
the Army felt that ballistics was a coming
science for riflemen. It was to study
ballistics that the School of Musketry
was established in 1853.
<♦ ❖ *X*
“Kelvin”: Under strange flags (B.
24/6/’53)? An R.A.N. lieutenant took
a queer junk-line craft, built in a Bris-
bane boatshed and manned by a suitably-
disguised Australian crew, right up to
Jap-occupied Singapore and even to
Hong Kong, wreaking much havoc
among Nip shipping during a nine-
months cruise. At a time of financial’
stringency after a well-earned and better-
spent leave the lieut. got the whisper
that he was entitled to Is. 9d. a day
“command-money” whilst in charge of
the disguised vessel. He duly lodged his
claim. Navy acknowledged the justice
of the claim, but regretted that payment
could not be authorised as the craft he
commanded was not listed under the
White Ensign. On receipt of the knock-
back he wrote an apologetic letter
to Navy expressing his appreciation of
the position and regretting his obtuse
ness in even asking for command-money
since during the raiding cruise he was,
in fact, flying the Japanese flag.
❖ *
“Giris”: During World War Two
fishing-boats off Britain’s coast laid nets
which unsuspecting naval ships fouled.
Claims on Admiralty were heavy—from
unscrupulous fishermen who destroyed
their own nets as well as from honest
folk. The Admiralty introduced a con-
trol system and claims fell. Now the
supersonic bang of the jet does the
damage. A 200-year-old cottage at Oving,
Sussex, has suffered cracked walls and
faulty door-frames. Claims for broken
windows and injury through being blown
from bicycles have been placed with the
Air Ministry. Till investigations are
complete, supersonic flights will probably
be made over sea. Those fishing-nets
again!
♦♦♦ ♦> ♦>
“F.S.”: A Melbourne art critic says,
apropos Picasso, that “to compare the
art of today with that of the past is tanta-
mount to comparing the respective merits
of gunpowder and atomic energy.” Is he
likening the self-portrait of Rembrandt
in the National Gallery to a relatively
mild explosion of gunpowder and the
Picasso head with the two eyes coming
out of the back of the neck to an atomic-
bomb explosion? If so, I can’t help
wondering why Rembrandt’s gentle ex-
plosion looks so controlled over every
inch of its surface by Rembrandt’s
knowledge, while the only control evi-
denced in the pictures of so-called
modernists seems to be that of some
prevailing fashion,
L. W. Elsum (Burma): In “Service Depart-
ment” (B. 29/4/’53), an inquirer was told, m
connection with Kingsford Smith’s death, that
“no vestige of the lost plane was ever found.
At the time of Smithy’s death I was at Tavoy,
Lower Burma, and, with the late Pat Leal, then
general-manager of Tavoy Tin Dredging, Ltd.,
became interested in trying to find out what had
happened to him. We heard that a Burmese
fisherman had found a wheel, with part of the
undercarriage of an aeroplane, near a small
island off the west coast of Burma, approxi-
mately half-way between Moulmein and Tavoy.
One of Leal’s engineers was an Australian pilot,
who later bought a Blackburn Bluebird plane
and flew it to Australia. He was a personal
friend of Kingsford Smith. Leal lent him a
steam-launch and instructed him to steam north
from Heinze Basin to see if he could discpver
further evidence. The engineer located the
fisherman and was taken by him to the island
where the wheel had been found. Later, he
told me that the island was a cone-shaped hill,
covered with dense, smallish jungle. On the
crest of the hill, trees and undergrowth had
been smashed, and a narrow swathe cut through
the jungle down the steep hillside, from north
to south. From the appearance of the smashed
jungle, added to the fact that a wheel and
undercarriage had been found at the foot of it,
my friends felt certain that a plane had struck
the hill-top and then plunged down the hillside
into the deep water. Although not equipped
to “drag” the waters near by, he did his best,
but without finding any further trace of the
plane. He said the currents sweeping around
the island were very powerful, which would
account for his inability to find the plane. 1
believe the wheel and undercarriage were sent
to the Lockheed company in U.S.A., and
positively identified as part of a Lockheed plane,
but I cannot remember whether it proved to
be part of Kingsford Smith’s craft. As there
is no evidence of any other Lockheed plane
being lost in that locality, I think it almost
certain that the gallant Smithy made his las'
landing at that island.
PROTHALAMIUM
“London ‘Daily Mirror’ is conducting a poll
among its 4,500,0CX) readers on whether Princess
Margaret should be allowed to marry the
divorced Group-Captain Peter Townsend. The
Sydney ‘Herald’ in a leading-article ventures to
‘believe that.... Princess Margaret.... should
be allowed to do so.’ ”
Marriages are made in Heaven
For the grocers and the drapers,
But when Royal hands are given
Marriages are made in papers.
Love, that democratic process,
Nowadays depends on where
“Mirror” readers put their crosses —
In the top or bottom square.
If the vote is to cement it,
- Some may see a problem loom :
Should the “Nays' ’ be represented
By an Opposition-groom ?
It’s just one of those dilemmas
Common to democracies —
Perhaps one needn’t mention them, as
This, at least, will not arise : —
Word at last has come from Grannie,
Sydney’s morning oracle:
“Margaret may have her mannie
If she, and, of course, he, will.”
Other newspapers please copy
From the Ganges to the Trent
The simple headline, terse and snappy :
“Grannie’s given her consent.”
No matter of a mere sensation
Could help Grannie to decide.
Nor thought of a remuneration
Through “Engagements Classified” ;
But all contention must be over,
And speculation be deplored.
When Gran can say she loves a lover,
She who always loved a lord.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Ma lory”: In Darwin there is a co-
operative community spirit, especially
when it comes to amateur theatricals. For
a presentation of Philip King’s “See How
They Run” the wardrobe called for five
complete clerical outfits. Right up to
the dress-rehearsal the threat of “frock-
less” hung over the heads of the clerical
cast. Then local padres dug down into
boxes where reposed their little-needed
winter wear and came to the rescue. Thus
“I’m sure I could Write a best-seller, too —if only I could
remember everything."
Philip King’s lively little farce sported
several “dickies” from a group of
churches known as United Church, coats
from the Roman Catholic presbytery,
coats and trousers from the Church of
England. The source of the dear little
hat the curate wore was never quite
known.
A *
“Spokeshave”: My London spy tells
me that Australian visitors are rushing
the fashion-experts to get the right clobber
for the Royal visit. I am reminded that
when Prime Minister Bruce, in his spats
days, was attending a Buckingham Palace
reception, many Australian officials
turned up wearing the same brand of
ankle-collar. When Bruce arrived they
found to their horror that he was with-
out his usual adornments. Next
morning gardeners gathered up several
pairs of spats from the shrubberies,
❖ * ♦♦♦
I’ve had no opportunity
of hearing Vaughan Williams’s
“Sinfonia Antarctica,” but from the
Showman’s comments (B. 24/6/’53) it
would seem that the work would be
appreciated by those who have lived
in Antarctica. There is no discrepancy
in the overworking of the percussion
section of the orchestra; noise is
the outstanding impression gained
when the blizzards roar across the
vast frozen wastes at velocities of 100
miles an hour and more. There is
a feeling of tremendous power in
those winds. For days they scream
and roar and thunder, driving great
clouds of blinding snow before them,
shaking well-anchored buildings like
sheets of paper, and heavy-gauge
radio aerials, normally hanging in a
great inverted arc, fly horizontally
with the arc still perfect, before they
tear free and are hurled hundreds
of yards. I have seen a well-found
Nissen hut, containing 50 tons of
stores, shifted a foot on its founda-
tions and squashed so hard that one
end splintered and broke open. The
extreme south of the world is seldom
quiet. Boring? At times; but only be-
cause human beings tire easily. An-
tarctica itself is magnificent, exciting and
packed with wondrous spectacle which
draws men who have been there back to
the ice and snow and noise.
♦♦♦
“Cauboy”: Latecomers —or, as James
Edmond used to call them, “late animals”
—received a shock when they arrived at
Her Majesty’s in Melbourne for the first
night of the Stratford Players to find the
doors locked. Thus the current reverence
for Shakspeare has brought the theatre
into line with the concert-platform and
the ballet. But there is one thing it
won’t do —stop people coughing. There
was an extraordinary outburst of coughs,
snorts and sneezes towards the end of the
first act of “Othello,” and it would be
no use Mr. Quayle using Sir Thomas
Beecham’s methods, stopping the per-
formance and telling the coughers not
to do it, because, as the psychologists say,
it’s all in the unconscious. Sir Laurence
Olivier’s last words to Melbourne theatre-
goers at the end of his season was that
they were all charming people, but he
hoped their colds would all be cured the
next time he met them.
“Vingter”: Tear-shedding by males
(B. 24/6/’53), even outside movie sob
sessions, is not always a sign of femininity,
A Queensland amateur boxer showed
signs of a promise that was, on account
of his lack of sting, never realised
Against opponents of his own scientific
class he did well, but, through lack of
innate bloodthirstiness, he always went
down before the onslaught of rough-and-
tumble artists. Came, however, the
memorable night when, against a whirl-
wind type, he collected a claret-producing
sock on the nose. He backmoved in
horror, burst into copious weeping and,
a split-second later, rebounded to the
attack with a fight-winning fury, taking
no heed of the bell which sounded at
the height of the assault. It took the
ref., his own and opposition seconds and
“I don't know that one."
police intervention to separate him from
a scared-stiff opponent, the while he wept
profusely and vociferously. We had
visions of him bashing his way to world
championship, provided he could be
persuaded to poke out his nose for a
provocative punch as the stimulant, but,
sad to say, that night he hung up his
gloves for good in bitter remorse at his
own savagery. I still think that by do-
ing so he saved the hide of Battling Siki,
then the Basher Boy of pugdom.
* ♦> ❖
“Nakh”: Mention of Father Rece-
veur's grave at La Perouse (B. 1/7/’53)
reminds me of the old fisherman
who used to earn a few bob showing
tourists round the antiquities, which
included the old Customs house, the
fort, the monument to La Perouse and
the French chaplain’s grave. The in-
scription in Latin told how the priest had
died in the course of a voyage “in cir-
cumnctvigatione mundi.” The old fisher-
man would heave a deep sigh and con-
clude “And you see, the poor bloke died
of a Mundee.”
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“McKim”: That ecstatic feeling which
tonics up the average toiler as a week-
end of relaxation, sport and pleasure
beckons close was bubbling high in the
spirits of the engine-crew of an express
goods-train as they raced homewards one
Friday morning. They’d be home for
dinner and off then until the Monday
night. They toasted the occasion with a
bottle of beer which the fireman dug out
of a tucker-box and, in their exuberance,
waved the bottle at the occupants of a
car which paced them for a few miles on
the adjacent road before drawing rapidly
away. Barely had the train stopped at
the next station when two burly figures
mounted the engine and made a dive for
tucker-boxes and tool-chests. A carton
of beer, addressed to a country publican,
was quickly brought to light, and that
started the dismal walk to the clink. An
odd chance had led to the red-handed
climax. On the outgoing trip the previ-
ous day the enginemen had stopped at an
isolated spot, sneaked the carton from a
truck and hid it in the scrub. The epi-
sode had been witnessed by an inspector
on top of a signal some distance away.
Keeping nit next morning until the carton®
was recovered, he had then outpaced the
train in a car —encouraged on the way by
evidence flaunted from the engine.
*> *
“Bo”; Consistency being a virtue,
Hollywood deserves at least full credit
for the invariability of its treatment of
the jungle treasure-cave. Holding torches
made of sticks of some mysterious timber
which not only has the property of shed-
ding a light equalling about 1000 c.p.
but shows no sign of having even been
partially consumed after about 10 minutes’
burning, the emerging and successful
searchers never get more than a few feet
from the cave-mouth before the cave
collapses (previous shots of dust falling
from the roof and ominous cracks appear-
ing to let you know what’s coming). As
a coincidence-fancier I have always been
struck by the way Nature has arranged
for caves that have been standing intact
for millions of years to cave-in three
seconds after the treasure has been re-
moved from them by a few Hollywood
actors. And, of course, no treasure-cave
could possibly be allowed to exist with-
out its containing a giant boa-constrictor
to menace its desecrators.
“Unicorn”: Tell “Bethune” and others
who have written concerning the titles
of Britain’s sovereigns that the follow-
ing information has been taken from
statements made by people in authority
in Britain, including the Home Secretary
and Secretary of State for Scotland:
Between 1603 and 1707, although the Crowns
had devolved on the same persons, there were
two kingdoms, and it was correct to speak of
James VI and I, James VII and II and William
II and 111, depending on who made the state-
ment or to which country reference was made.
The Treaty of Union which came into force
on May 1, 1707, altered matters and the new
sovereign State of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain came into being, giving its name
to both Sovereign and Parliament.
The first occasion on which the question of
the sovereign’s numeral came under discussion
was when William succeeded George IV in 1830.
There was a suggestion he be called William 1
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain. After
discussion it was decided that the sovereign
should at all times take the next number to the
highest previously used, whether it was of
England or Scotland. Up till now this has acted
in England’s favor, hut if a sovereign acceded
bearing the names, say, of David or Robert, he
would be known as David 111 or Robert IV
if the agreement was kept. The English who
call our Queen Elizabeth II of England and
the Scots who call her Elizabeth I of Scotland
are thus both breaking the Treaty of Union and
the 1830 agreement.
-ijt
“A. Moral”: The bloke who told me
vouches for it. On a pitch-black gusty
night on the R.A.F. drome at Bury St.
Edmunds the duty-pilot was seated at
the brazier in the watch-house staring
into the black vo’id which was barely
broken by the strip-lights, all flying
having been washed out. Suddenly he
heard the unidentifiable yet strangely
familiar thrum of an aero-engine. A
minute later a craft touched-down and
the duty-pilot went out to investigate the
stranger. On the edge of the tarmac he
cannoned into a figure which had been
invisible in the darkness, and whose im-
pact spreadeagled him on the slippery
tarmac. Smothering his annoyance at
the knockdown, he was about to voice
his apology for the collision when he
was cut short by a guttural, profane and
Teutonic expostulation. The duty-pilot
yelled in English for the guard, where-
upon the other man bolted back into
the darkness and in the direction of his
aircraft. In the confusion the Dornier
took off, piloted by probably the most
scared officer in the Luftwaffe, whose
navigation had been so much on the
blink that he had landed on the wrong
side of the Channel.
“Bamekaw”: The astrology piece in my
daily no longer tells me that I might ex-
pect good news following the sudden
death of a rich relative, or that from
2 a.m. to 4 a.m. would be the best time
to launch out in a new business venture,
or that at 6 p.m. I will feel frustration
due to an interruption in my social
pleasures. Instead my weekend horo-
scope tells me that on Sunday I can get
spiritual consolation from church-attend-
ance, and that the sermon might have a
message for me. For Monday it bluntly
states ‘There’s a lot of work to be done,
so roll up your sleeves and go to it.”
For the various Goats, Rams and Virgins
it offers similar contributions. “Seek
rest and relaxation this day.” “If out
driving in the country beware of traffic
hazards.” And for the work-day,
“Analyse each problem that is new to
you. Don’t rush on it blindly.” “Leave
day-dreaming to others. Be practical.”
I rather approve this change. If it is
going to make the devotees of astrology
more spiritually-minded, more energetic
or more careful in traffic, then I’m all
for it
NOT UNDERSTOOD
“My husband is peculiar. I try to be com-
panionable at night by telling him of all the
happenings during the day along the street and
about the neighbors, but he just wants to read
the paper. His selfishness is turning me/ against
him.” —Letter to Dorothy Dix.
My Joe. he’s a queer sort of fellow.
He won’t take the interest in things
That he should, like the fighting
That Tom and Flo Whiting
Indulge in; the way that she flings
The crock’ry at him when he’s sozzled.
The language they use when they row —
And, mind, though I retail
At length every detail,
Joe just grunts a “Uh-huh”—the cow I
Now, last Monday morning, for instance,
The baker s boy fell off the cart
And tore all his trousers
Right outside Miss Frowser’s,
It’s she, you know, has the bad heart.
He wasn’t hurt, that was real lucky.
But, would you believe it, though I
Spent an hour telling Joe, all
I got was “Aw, Know all.
Shut up, can’t you?” — Well, I could
cry!
Last Thursday, now, old Mrs. Morgan,
Who’d fust had her gall-bladder out,
Came to borrow some butter
And showed where they’d cut her.
It was deep; you know, she’s so stout.
So, while he was having his dinner
I started to tell Joe, but he —
I can’t understand it !
Bad-temperedly banned it.
It’s his fault that we disagree.
Now, Dorothy, you’re sympathetic
To wives who have husbands like mine.
When I talk diseases
And death, it displeases
Him. Tell me, what do you opine ?
Should I slip diamond-dust in his coffee,
Or threaten to go home to Ma?
Your advice I’m awaiting.
Joe’s so aggravating,
Refusing to listen to blah.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


bs
Sure Starts
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
KX1.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
Having set a sales-record for a book
by an Australian, published in Australia,
ex-commando Tom Hungerford, of The
Ridge and the River, has come out with
another, Riverslake. The subject is
migrants. To get his material, Hunger-
ford lived in a migrant hostel for six
months. Lived —and worked ; first as
kitchen-hand, washing-up several hun-
dred sets of eating-tools each meal, and
finally, through sheer perseverance and
solid work, graduating to lavatory-
cleaner, a much easier job, he reckons.
With his normal day’s work behind him,
Hungerford would retire to his tiny cabin
and put on paper what he’d learned
through the day. At the moment,
attached to the News and Information
Bureau, Canberra, he’s wandering round
Thursday Island and parts- adjacent,
gathering material for stories for over-
seas consumption.
At present Director of Military Intel-
ligence at the War Office, Major-General
Arthur Shortt is due for a change of
bivouac —chief British liaison-officer in
Australia. Cambridge man, engineer by
training, Shortt was in France in the
Kaiser’s business, and back there again
in 1940, personal assistant to Lord Gort.
In the important period before Sicily and
Normandy, Shortt was in charge of the
British Army’s technical training.
Cricket’s his non-military interest.
AIR-VICE-MARSHAL J. P. J. Mc-
CAULEY (through Duntroon, Malaya,
Java, France, Germany, Japan to his
latest appointment —head of the R.A.A.F.)
The 2/2nd Pioneer Battalion, A.1.F.,
was formed to work as engineers, but
with sufficient training to act, in emer-
gency, as infantry. In the just-out
history of the battalion, which he edited,
Colonel Ted Aitken indicates that
wherever it went —Syria, Palestine, New
Guinea, Borneo —there seemed to be a
chronic state of “emergency.” Aitken was
a company-commander with the unit in
Palestine and Syria, and, at Mughazi,
south of Gaza, was responsible for its
training. Not with it when it was
lost in Java, Aitken, recognised as an
outstanding tactical man, set-to with
Colonel Joe Lang to form and train a
new 2/2nd. Here again the accent
needed to be on fighting—the battalion
adding Lae, Markham Valley, Ramu,
Tarakan and Balikpapan to its battle-
honors. Aitken had been seconded for
tactical-training before his crowd left
for New Guinea, but happened to be
passing through Tarakan when the bat-
talion C. 0., Colonel Clayton Davis, was
evacuated, sick. So Aitken finally got
command of the mob he’d formed, to
take ’em through the Balikpapan busi-
ness. Now he’s a staff-officer, G. 1., at
3rd Division H.Q. in Melbourne.
Harvard University, which keeps an
Alma Maternal eye on its graduates, has
recognised the work of Queensland
engineer Jack Mulholland with a fellow-
ship which will enable him to attend an
international conference of engineers in
Switzerland, and then take a nine-months
look-see at the latest projects in U.S.,
especially hydraulic work and founda-
tions. 'Mulholland, M.E. (first-class
honors and Walter and Eliza Hall fellow-
ship winner) Queensland Uni. and
M.Sc. (Harvard), has water-supplied
and sewered cities and towns and
solved river-pollution problems pretty
well all over his State. While at Har-
vard in 1930 he won the coveted inter-
national Clemens Herschel Award for
the best work done in the engineering
school. At present he’s in charge of
Ipswich City Council’s £BOO,OOO sewer-
age scheme.
Two anniversaries were celebrated on
the same day behind the classic portico
of the Collins-street Baptist Church
opposite the Regent Theatre in Mel-
bourne. One was the 110th birthday of
the church’s foundation; the other was
the 10th anniversary of the service of its
present pastor —Rev. J. Arthur Lewis.
The church’s first service was held in a
tent on the spot where the Regent now
stands.
From a desk loaded with telephones at
the State offices in Melbourne, Percy
Edgar Everett, F.R.V.1.A., F.R.A.1.A.,
has directed the erecting of more build-
ings than probably any man in Australia.
In fact, he’s lost count of his construc-
tions. As the first student of architec-
ture at the Gordon Institute at Geelong,
he helped in the designing of the Corio
Quay and harbor development, and as a
member of the firm of Seeley, King and
Everett, helped build half of new Sleepy
Hollow. As chief-architect of the De-
partment of Public Works, he designed
the new Russell-street police-head-
quarters, which towers over Melbourne,
the State Insurance, State Treasury
extension, Burnley Horticultural College,
the University Chemistry School, half a
dozen technical schools, hospitals galore
and countless numbers of State schools
about the country. Melbourne is fairly
peppered with his buildings. He was
phoned one night by a Chief Secretary
and told that he had to fit 150 bedrooms
into the police h.q. He went to bed with-
out an idea in his head and woke up a
few hours later with an inspiration—he
shoved them all on top, hence the multi-
storied structure. Now he’s retiring to
fulfil private orders.
Melbourne artists seem to win all the
prizes in Victorian provincial art-com-
petitions, and they seem to win a lot in
other States. Kenneth Jack won the £75
award of the Perth Art Gallery for an
oil-painting and Nornie Gude £25 for
a watercolor.
Old Digger and versatile athlete, Basil
W. Kirke went back to Perth for a second
time as A.B.C. manager, with the com-
mission about to notch its twenty-first
birthday. His introduction to radio work
was in 1911, when he became an amateur-
operator, Service abroad with the A.I.F.
and a few years in the Colonial Office
in Fiji interrupted his “hamming,” but
he returned to Australia in time to be-
come a pioneer in broadcasting, then in
the hands of private enterprise. Most
of that early work was sporting commen-
taries and actuality broadcasts. One of
his outstanding feats was a descent in
diver’s rig to broadcast from the bed
of the ocean off Cottesloe. He was
appointed first A.B.C. manager in Perth
in 1932, when the commission took over
from Westralian Farmers’, Ltd. There
were then fewer people on the payroll
of the Perth show than there are depart-
ments today. Schooled at Fort-street
and Sydney Grammar, Kirke was a
swimmer, surfer and Rugby-footballer of
mark in his day.
“Cauboy”: Australians are going on
overseas tours now —from London. The
Covent Garden Opera Co., due to present
Benjamin Britten’s Coronation opera,
“Gloriana,” to the South Africans for the
Rhodes Centenary Festival, will include
Melburnian John Lanigan, as the Duke
of Essex, Joan Sutherland as Lady Pene-
lope and Ronal Jackson as the lead-
ing baritone. Jackson’s place in the Carl
Rosa Opera Co. will be taken by Aus-
tralian David Allen.
After 10 years in N. S. Wales, Canon
John Bell returns to Perth, priest-in-
charge of St. George’s Cathedral, of
which he was appointed canon in 1938.
Before ordination he won the M.M.
against the Kaiser in the ranks of the
B.E.F. During his previous ministry in
Westralia he served 17 years as rector of
South Perth and Christ Church, Clare-
mont, and built up a reputation as a
preacher and broadcaster. In N.S.W. he
had been organising-secretary of the Aus-
tralian Board of Missions and dean of
Armidale (N.S.W.).
From a friend of 30 years’ standing:
Marcus Clark —few but intimates knew that
his first name was Reginald—was notable rather
for what he was than for what he did. Any-
body who inherited the great commercial
interests which were his might reasonably have
had the chance in time to fill the long roll
of directorships which came his way, the public
offices, the presidency of the Federated
Chambers of Commerce of the British Empire
and the Sydney Chamber, even the various
Government jobs which were placed on his
shoulders during war-time. These included the
presidency of the Military Contracts Board in
the years after the end of World War I, mem-
bership of the N.S.W. Relief Board and Board
of Health at the end of the depression and
the job of adviser to the Prices Commissioner
in 1918-19 and 1939-48. Few, however, could
have lived his busy life without losing the
power to enjoy simple things and to appreciate
beauty wherever found. Even in his late years
when his health was poor he preferred to
walk round the city and to travel in trams to
being whisked about in a motor-car. He was
always ready and seemed to have leisure to pause
in the street to chat for a few minutes about
a picture (he was a trustee of the National
Gallery), some new coin (he was an expert and
ardent numismatist) or a book or something
in history which interested him. He was always
MARCUS CLARK
equable, courteous and conciliatory, with a
modest readiness to listen to other people’s
opinions. And he had a right hand which went
automatically to a pocket or cheque-book when
trouble was in the air. Few outside the bene-
ficiaries knew the measure of his giving, which
was always done with the air of one distributing
a well-earned dividend to a fully entitled share-
holder.
Herewith, Flight-Lieutenant W. H.
Scott, who has been deputed to crack the
sound-barrier over Melbourne at the end
of the month in the first Australian-built
Sabre. He’ll be above his birthplace
while he does it. Born at Bendigo in
1924, educated at St. Patrick’s College,
Ballarat, he joined the Air Force in
SOUND-BEATER
1942 and after testing planes at
various depots throughout Australia
was sent, in 1948, to the test-pilot school
in England, and early this year did a
refresher course in the U.S., where he
beat the speed of sound in American
Sabres. The Australian breed will be
somewhat different—freshly designed to
accommodate American features, with an
English Rolls-Royce Avon engine and
claimed to be one of the world’s best.
Imperturbable, easy-going and apparently
nerveless, Scott lives in Melbourne, is
married with two nippers.
Distinguished Flying Cross, for service
in Korea, goes to Flight-Lieutenant
Hartley V. Shearn, of Perth, whose first
experience of operational flying was over
Europe with No. 456 Squadron, R.A.A.F.
In 1952, he became a Meteorite with the
Double-Seven Squadron in Korea. His
next posting should be interesting—to the
rocket-range at Woomera.
The D.F.M., his second decoration in
12 months, has been awarded to
squadron-mate Sergeant - pilot Geoff
Lushey, also of Perth. He clicked for
the American Air Medal last year. Ac-
cording to the later citation, he has dis-
played courage and devotion to duty
during rocket and strafing attacks on
defended enemy installations, often press-
ing home the attack at low altitude to
ensure maximum damage. He’s been in
162 Meteor sorties, probably upped by
now.
Into the Silence:
Passed on in Melbourne, Pearson William
Tewkesbury, the city’s most colorful inn-
keeper. Reputedly a millionaire, he was part-
owner of the Oriental Hotel in Collins-street,
a promoter of the big Yellow Express Carriers
and Yellow Cabs, and owner of a fleet of gold-
dredges with which he pioneered the dredging
of the metal from Victoria’s rivers. His main
claim to distinction, however, was the Kitchener
and Churchill flags, for which he got 0.8. E.
In World War I he conceived the idea of raising
money for incapacitated soldiers by collecting
signatures on an Australian flag. Kitchener
signed the first one, Churchill signed the second,
and the promoter of the movement took the
flag to England with an address to Sir Winston
containing thousands of signatures. The cash
collected amounted to £48,000.
In Adelaide, Walter Tydd Rowe, S. Australia s
Director of Chemistry and Government Analyst
in the 1930’5. Both his wife and son were State
tennis-champions; he being a noted rifle-shot
himself.
At Rotorua (N.Z.), at 84, knight Alexander
Herdman, ex-Judge of the Supreme Court and
one-time Minister of Justice and Attorney-
General in the Massey Administration. He
began in the National Bank, shifted to law and
was admitted to the Bar in 1894. In 1935 he
retired from the Bench and had another try at
politics as leader of a new Democrat party,
which, however, failed to secure one seat.
In a traffic accident in Belgium, a|t 62,
Spencer A. Doman, of Waroona (W.A.). A
noted breeder of Aberdeen Angus cattle,
he had large cattle, sheep and wheat properties
in Westralia, N.S.W. and S. Australia. He had
been to London for the Coronation, and was
starting a motor-tour of Europe when the end
came.


AN ERROR OF JUDGMENT


ABORIGINALITIES
“J.E.8.”: Signing-on a native New
Guinea servant I was impressed by his
know-how. To my question as to
whether he was mission-reared he
assured me he was, and added: “Me
No. 1 Cris’shun.” I asked his denomina-
tion. “Me dam’ fine so-and-so,” he
stoutly averred. “Me try one-feller ’lig’on,
me try two-feller ’lig’on, me try plenty
dim-dim [white man] ’lig’on. Behind me
catch ’um dam’ good one. Plenty rice
long belly ’e stop, plenty bullemacow,
plenty sing-sing, ’ymn, plenty allylujah!
Bimeby plenty good walkabout long sky.
Bloody good show, Taubada.”
* * * ♦
“Mingari”: When the N.Q. drover
starts out across the treeless downs he
takes long strips of calico “break” and
pegs to make a yard for the sheep at
night. In N.S.W. I’ve seen rolls of light
wire-netting used. But in Westralia s
nor’-west the horse-tailer builds a fresh
yard every night, starting in the centre of
a patch of thick scrub which he carves
down and drags out to form four sides
of a square, the branches pointing in-
ward. A yard of that type can be built
in an amazingly short time by one man,
even a yard big enough to hold 4000 or
5000 sheep in comfort. When they’re
in, the gateway is blocked by a few more
bushes, and all’s well for the night. On
the old-established stock-routes, yards
were built that way 60 or 70 years ago,
and they’re still in use today and better
than the day they were built. Reason is
that year after year every drover, as he
used each 'yard, topped the walls with
more scrub, the ceaseless winds piled
drifting sand in the bushes and scooped
from the inside the light dust carved up
by thousands of hooves—-and now those
yards stand with 4ft. or sft. earth walls,
and floors that may be a foot or so
below the ground-level outside.
* * * ♦
“Ida D.”: Add to list of
animals who drink little or no water (B.
1/7/’53) the chinchilla which lives above
a certain height in the Andes where no
rain falls and there is no running water.
The Indians maintain that this beautiful
little creature, so prized for its fur, gets
the typical “silver-blue” sheen from its
habit of imbibing moisture from “agua
cielo” (heavenly water), i.e., the dew.
It may be noted that the possum, rabbit,
guinea-pig, koala and the chinchilla, all
drink-scorners, are fur-bearing.
* * * *
H. A. Lindsay: I’ll certainly hand it
to The Bulletin when it comes to getting
.results. About two months ago a par.
of mine on this page stated that no
scientist has yet managed to secure a
specimen of the wild-dog known to live
in the higher mountains of New Guinea,
and that the S.A. Museum would like to
secure a skin and a skull or two, as this
animal is probably the connecting link
between our dingo and the feral dog of
India. The museum has since received
five offers from patrol-officers and mis-
sionaries in the New Guinea highlands.
To get even one specimen would be im-
portant, but if those five people each
send in a specimen from places far apart,
it would be the answer to a biologist’s
prayer. Incidentally, one missionary
also offers-—quite casually—to send down
a specimen of another creature hitherto
unrecorded anywhere in New Guinea and
whose presence there, when proved, will
create a sensation in scientific circles.
* * * *
“Gulliver”: I know the Koran for-
bids the Faithful to drink intoxicants
(B. 1/7/’53), but that the Westralian
Afghan took this as anything other than
a sample of the Prophet’s delicious humor
is news to me. I’ve heard many queer
things ascribed to the race, but even those
who disliked them most never accused
them of total abstention. Had they been
so, surely so remarkable a piece of
behavior would have attracted comment
in a community where grog was one of
the principal alleviators of man’s misery.
But if the Book bade them deceive the
Unbeliever, they did a magnificent job.
The ’Ghan was a great liar, hearty, jovial,
confident in his truth-twisting—until he
was caught out. Then, still hearty and
jovial, the bearded Ananias would con-
gratulate you on your cleverness at catch-
ing so adroit a man as himself; express
a fear that he was losing his skill; and
that as each now knew exactly the sort
of man he was dealing with, matters
could be conducted on a basis of com-
plete honesty—and they were!
* * ♦ *
“V.J.H.”: For aggressiveness in pro-
tecting its nesting area and young I’ll
back the Antarctic skua gull (B. 17/6/’53)
against even the maggie or the wagtail.
"It's what they call dovetailing."
Walking along the lava cliffs at Heard
Island last vear I was startled by a sudden
“oTS "d a big brown W
flashed past my head, banked gracefully
at the end of its run, came back at high
speed, screaming madly all the way,
and struck viciously at my head as it
hurtled past. I watched it closely, and
after three or four of these double-passes
it alighted on a high moss-hummock,
lifted its wings high, ruffled its neck-
feathers and emitted the hoarse shriek
characteristic of the species. Soon after
“Lucky I caught it — you'd have
scared the fish."
another skua joined it, and as I walked to-
wards them they both took off. The first
bird came straight at me, flying low, while
the other took up a position directly over-
head. As the strafing skua drew closer
to me its mate made a vertical dive at my
head, hovering there and beating at me
with its wings. I left hurriedly. Later
I found that the easiest way to keep the
skuas off was to hold a stick above my
head. The birds would attack the stick,
leaving me to observe the habits of their
fluffy brown young.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Little Curl had read
somewhere that every man has a story
and if only it could be told the world
would listen. So he bought a writing-
pad and two pencils and got going. For
a fortnight all we got out of L.C. after
work was dead silence and the picture of
him on his bunk, pad on knee, some-
times writing, but mostly chewing the
pencil and frowning into space. Then
he told us, “Got the first chapter writ.
About me gettin’ born an’ who mo
parents is an’ all that. The next’ll be
about goin’ t’ school an’ all that. Then
I’ll come in with the time me an’ Gun-
boat Henry pinched the melons an' me
old man nilly shot the Eyetalian fruiterer
an’ that’!! bring me up t’ when I lef
school an’ took on hard yakker. That’ll
bring me through t’ the time I started
goin’ with—with, well, never mind, an’
after that how I went t’ Mildoora an’
got eighty quid t’ ten-bob about the Grand
National double an’ had the first leg in
when me horse fell at the
third-last jump an’—an’—
cripes, don’t take a man no
time t’ write a story, does it?”
* * ♦
“Macquarie”: To thou-
sands «of homes and home-
steads the death of Thorpe
McConville in Melbourne
would be like the passing
of a good cobber. Re-
nowned rough-rider in his
young days, member of a
troupe that toured the
U.S.A. humbling America’s
best, exhibition-giver for
King George V, McConville
later founded his “Wild
Australia.” One of the
most popular shows that
ever travelled throughout
the Commonwealth, it was
true to name: the only
emulation of Hollywood
cowboys came from chal-
lengers in the audience,
who were generally de-
posited on their star-
spangled chaps in mid-
yippee; McConville’s riders
wore a simple uniform of
white shirt and riding-pants,
black bow-tie and black
riding-boots, McConville
loved horses, fed his buck-
jumpers like fighting-cocks,
and introduced each one
into the ring with a friendly
little lecturette that was
almost as entertaining as
the display following. In
dealing with animals he
seemed to be able to
think as they wbuld. For
example, he generally
worked two beasts in the bullock-riding
events. When one took sick before a
performance he reluctantly gave the
other both jobs to do. But after each
ride surcingle and flank-rope would be
removed, the animal walked out of the
ring, then brought back. McConville
would explain: “The bullock knows his
job is to throw the rider; when he has
done that he feels that his work is done.
If we let another rider mount him
immediately he would feel he’d been
cheated. By having his equipment re-
moved he knows he has done his job,
then he is ready for the next one.” And
perhaps that was the whole key to
McConville’s popularity —his sense of
fairness, and his free-and-easy manner
that made audiences feel they were
cobbers sitting on the stockyard-rails.
***<•■
“Lemuel G.” recalls a couple of old-
time blade-shearers;
Tom and Frank, both walrus-moustached,
shore each year on my uncle’s s.-w.-Q-
-selection —he couldn’t afford machines. Bound
by some queer tie of mateship, they arrived
each year, always a few days apart, the reason
being that Frank travelled by pushbike.and
Tom on foot. Uncle couldn’t run to shearers’
huts either, so Frank pitched his tent near the
house, and Tom, who detested being cooped up,
camped on the ground behind a windbreak
of bushes. Their first demand was for a brand-
new woolbale, from which each made a pair
of moccasins, this being the shearers’ right
since time immemorial. Frank didn’t smoke,
but Tom shore with a bent-stem pipe dangling
from his jaw all day; he re-lit it after every
sheep and carefully placed the spent matcn
in a tin, thus keeping his tally for the day. Not
having heard of the eight-hour day (even in
1916) they shore from the time it was light
enough to see until dark, collaborating with
uncle in keeping a sharp eye out for the union-
organiser’s sulky. Part of every “smoke-on
was spent grinding their shears, in their own
time, my unwilling self being the motive-power
for the ancient stone. They weren’t too haughty
to lend a hand on the lever of the home-made
woolpress, and if the sheep were too stubborn
for an 11-year-old to handle they’d hop in ana
help me with the penning-up. If we got a
sudden rainstorm in the middle of the night
they would rush up with us to the “shed
and struggle in the dark with a madly flapping
tarpaulin until all the bins and hales were
covered; these stood in the open, only the
“board” being sheltered by a bough-shed. When
the cut-out came they would stay on a couple
of days as guests, no charge being made tor
their tucker, and wash and mend their clothes.
They’d get a couple of rums each with then
cheques, and the last I saw of them was Frank
pedalling towards Charleville on a laden bike,
whilst Tom waved and called back He 11 W
there ternight, and I’ll be there termorrer night,
so what’s the difference? See youse all next
year!”
THE LIGHT ON ONE-TREE HILL
Now dark and gaunt is One-tree Hill,
Where, in the dead of the night,
In the darkness shines and never is still
A wandering lantern-light;
A flickering gleam that floats around,
That moves and then stops dead
Where a dark deep shaft stares from the ground
By a mullock-heap of red.
High in the coal-black darkness set
It shines as still as a star
And then of a sudden leaps like a jet,
There by the gaping scar,
And falls and into the old shaft goes,
Down to the depths below,
Where sound is dead nor movement shows,
Save when the lost winds blow.
And this is the story now that’s writ,
A relic of days of old
When the hill was dug and delved and slit
And the deep shafts reached for gold;
Where miners stacked their quartz in a heap
At the mouth of each gaping mine
Arid then went off to read and sleep
Or taste the good red wine;
How, while they drank or lay abed,
A light went out in a shack
And put of the door poked an aged head,
And an old man with stoopirlg back
Came out with a lantern in his hand,
A lantern dimly lit.
As past the heaps of mullock and sand
The owls saw his shadow flit.
And secretly he climbed each rise,
From shaft to shaft then went,
Picking the quartz with greedy eyes,
Over the good heaps bent,
His face alight in the lantern’s glow
The while his fingers clawed
Wherever a specimen rich would show
More gold for his stolen hoard.
He fossicked the quartz and collected it,
And shoved it in his sack,
Then silently and craftily quit
With the quartz upon his ba6k;
Feeling his way by lantern-light
Past shafts as still as death
Where never a miner came in sight
Till the dawn of day drew breath.
Now hark to the sound within the dark —
What does the old shack say,
Where through a crack like a tiny spark
Light shows till the dawn of day?
The old man dollies the quartz he snatched,
His dolly upon his knee . . .
Then late one night a miner watched,
High up in the old gum-tree.
He saw the thief with his lantern high,
The greedy old hand that shook;
And loud rang out that miner’s cry:
“Where is the gold you took?”
Then the lantern dropped beside the deep
And with the old man fell
Into the shaft, past steep on steep . . .
And that’s the tale they tell
Of the moving light on One-tree Hill,
Where, in the d*ad of the night,
In the darkness shines and never is still
A wandering lantern-light;
A flickering gleam that floats around,
That moves and then stops dead
Where a dark deep shaft stares from the ground
By a mullock-heap of red.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


rwAmrwA mrmmrwAmrwA mtwAmrwA
jwa m rwAmrwA mtWA mrwA mrwA m twa m twa s/mm
TRANS WORLD AIRLINES
Is the ONLY airline to offer you
Super Constellations
to carry you in luxury from San
Francisco or Los Angeles to New York
en route to
London, Paris, Frank-
furt, Zurich, Geneva,
Tel Aviv, Shannon,
Lisbon, Madrid,
Algiers, Tunis, Milan,
Rome, Athens, Cairo,
Basra, Dhahran,
Bombay.
SUPER CONSTELLATION FEATURES:
• Most spacious planes in
commercial operation—
-744 square feet of floor
space.
• Seats 64 passengers,
plus 8 sleeping berths.
• Luxury lounge for pas-
sengers’ comfort.
• Most advanced 4-engine
equipment gives greater
Literature supplied on appli-
cation to any approved travel
agent, or TWA, Kembla Build-
ing, 58 Margaret St., Sydney.
BX 1219.
range—3,2so miles
cruising at 20,000 feet.
• Pressurised and air-
conditioned cabins give
low altitude comfort.
• Outstanding cuisine.
MJ CO n
ASK FOR TWA SUPER CONSTELLATION SERVICE ACROSS AMERICA
pr mu mvAu MMM mtfjuim vmi
VMimVMAZ
twa === twa = mm twa mm mmrwAßm iwa m fWA mrwAmmA
Si
UMM
“TOM CORBETT-
SPAGE CADET”
Thrill to the exciting revelations of a peep into the
space world of tomorrow. “Tom Corbett —Space
Cadet” is an enthralling adventure presentation based
entirely on scientific fact. Brought to you with the
good wishes of the makers of Kiwi Polish.
MONDAYS, TUESDAYS & WEDNESDAYS 7.15 P.M.
Produced by
2GB - 3AW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
And many other commercial broadcasting
stations throughout the Commonwealth.
The ip iiroifflll! Hroadeasting
“Mat’s Mate”: On the Overland ex-
press to Adelaide we shared a compart-
ment with three other blokes, one of
whom evidently knew his ' way about.
Somewhere between Ballarat East and
Nhill he got properly going on the places
he’d seen, and all the way to the border
we heard about Europe and America.
“Ah, yes,” he said, more than once and
each time with a lordly gesture, “London,
Paris, Brussels, New York —what cities!
What life!” Then off he’d go on more
tales. We dozed and listened as mom
approached and the express raced into
the Adelaide hills, the wheels beating
out the refrain, “London, Paris, Brussels,
New- York.” At last canje North
Terrace, and, as we wearily gathered our
gear to go forth into an Adelaide Sunday
morning. Mat said, with a lordly gesture,
“Ah, yes, mate. Hamley Bridge, River-
ton, Terowie, then for Yunta and good
old Manna Hill. What places! What
life!”
♦ * ♦ *
“G.L.H.”: Having cut many hundreds
of trees by axe and saw over 30 years
I can tell “Bass” (B. 8/7/’53) this: a
tree will fall towards either the scarf or
the saw-cut, both of which must be put
in towards the lean of the tree. Let him
put in a saw-cut and try it the way he
says and the saw will jam before he’s
half-way through.
♦ * He He
“Kamray”: The Choom who found the
feline chassis beneath the demolished
fireplace (B. 1/7/’53) should have had
the answer if he came from Yorkshire.
My grandfather built a new kitchen with
slabs and made the floor of ants’-nests
mixed with old cow-manure. The whole
family, grandmother, four aunts, five
uncles and three grandchildren, were set
to stamping the dampened mixture into
a firm hard surface while Grandfather
and a friend went about their mysterious
work on hearth and chimney. After the
job was completed the absence of our
cat was commented upon, and it re-
mained a mystery till the friend had time
to get drunk on the quid Grandfather
gave him for helping. Explanation is
that a cat will sit by a fire if it is drawing
well and not spluttering. If the fire spits
out sparks the cat will leave and find a
comfortable place elsewhere; so what
was more natural than to ensure a safe
fire and a comfortable hearth by tether-
ing the feline to the spot? Even though
the cat is dead it is supposed to work,
though for some reason it has always to
be a female. I suppose the toms are too
fond of wandering.
* * * *
“Jackstay”: After watching mutton-
birds on Gabo Island it’s my opinion
that the young are fed, not on
predigested fish, but on the oil extracted
therefrom by the parental digestive organs
“ Don't take any notice of th ’ boss , George — he's a neurotic type."
and injected each evening via the bill.
Any young petrel held by the legs will
yield up to a cupful of oil. As a result,
the nestlings become so fat they’re top-
heavy, and will promptly turn turtle if
removed from the nest and placed in the
sea., Allowed to work things out accord-
ing to their own schedule, however, they
avert this unseemly fate by gulping down
a meal of pebbles immediately they
emerge on launching day. Thus ballasted,
they can become water-borne with safety,
and the subsequent struggle for tucker
soon streamlines them down to something
ship-shape. But, remembering the prob-
lems that oppress the human brain when
it comes to ballasting and trimming a
boat, what beats me is how something
with the intelligence of a mutton-bird-*-
and, remember, one that’s never yet been
to sea —can instantly divine just how
much to take aboard without getting
down over the Plimsoll-mark.
* * * *
“Sackville”: We were youths, the day
was hot, we’d tramped a good few miles
carrying guns, and our tongues were
hanging out, and if the water in the hole
was “crawlin’ and it stunk,” at least it
was wet. We washed our mouths out
with it, splashed it over wrists and faces,
took off boots and socks and paddled
bare feet in it. We were sitting facing
each other, feet splashing, when George
looked over my shoulder, garped, gulped,
then croaked: “Run for your stinker!”
With one backward flip he was on his
feet and racing towards the fence. I
took a shocked glance behind, saw the
bull approaching with menacing haste,
and set sail. A full hour passed before
the bull departed and allowed us to go
back for guns and boots. And that
70-odd yards back to the soak was the
most agonising journey I’ve ever travelled,
for that paddock was full of bindi-eyes
—yet we hadn’t felt one in our flight
from the bull! Apparently fear, as well
as lending wings to your heels, can put
leather on your soles.
“Fairf”: Remarkable how often a
“latest method” turns out to be almost
the same thing our grandfathers used.
Recently I read a scientific method of
counteracting that sooty stain which
repeatedly shows through the distemper
on a wall: paint the spot with ammonia
first. Old-time painters always washed
it with a solution of cow-dung and water.
The same agent did the job in both cases.
In a treatise on soil-erosion a suggestion
was made that deeply-eroded gutters
would gradually fill up if tree-tops were
laid in them, the branches pointing up-
hill, thus collecting the silt that washed
down. The wrinkle is older than our
rural municipal council employees
maintaining the roads were doing it in
the gutters when I was a kid, and the
practice was not new then.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Today’s Torres Straits
native shuns the “rope stick” or trade
tobacco (B. 1/7/’53) in favor of the
gentler blends. Because of its priciness
he wastes not one shred of it, a
frugality quite foreign to his nature. On
Yorke Island I’ve seen half a dozen
oldsters squat in a circle while the one
fortunate possessor of a cigarette ex-
haled the smoke into a bamboo tube
sealed at each end but pierced with two
holes. The tube would then be plugged
with the fingers and handed over to the
next smoker, and so on round the circle,
resulting in the satisfaction of the crav-
ings of half a dozen addicts at the ex-
penditure of one gasper. Another indi-
cation of the importance of tobacco in
the lives of the natives is the perforated
ear-lobes of the older men and women.
Pipes are threaded through the larger
holes and matches through the smaller
ones.
♦ ♦ • ♦
“H.C.8.”: Stan, Roy’s mate, had re-
turned from a visit to Queensland, and
as the pair sat eating their lunches he
offered Roy a sandwich with: “Have a
go at a Queensland delicacy—it’s rosella
jam. It’s good!” “Good?” re-
torted Roy. “No jam sandwich could
be good!” “It’s rosella jam—it’s made
out of rosellas,” insisted Stan. “Gaw
starve the crows,” breathed his best mate.
“I always knew you were a bit weak in
the skull. Now 1 suppose you’ll tell me
them Bananalanders make pickles out of
peewees and tomato-sauce out of
galahs?” “You blasted idiot,” yelled
Stan, “a rosella is a flower in Queens-
land ; it’s a big red blossom that grows
on a bush and people make jam out of
it.” And thus we amused listeners learnt
something about the gastronomy of our
northern neighbors ; but, from Stan’s point
of view, bringing the subject up was a
tactical error —by the time we’d all had
a tentative nibble, then an appreciative
bite, his lunch was reduced to four or
five crusts.
THE SONG
We have heard it all before when the moon
climbed
The night around us.
But the song then was not a part of the moun-
tain
And the stream in the valley.
This robs no beauty from the song’s strangeness,
nor slows
The pulse of love:
That worlds ago the same sound enchanted us
In another country.
Sleep in my arms till the moon falls a feather
Among the gums
And the wide-eyed owl wonders and calls us to
follow
The song to the end.
QUEENSLAND,
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


A GLORIOUS EVENING
IN WAIKIKI
Complimentary Stop-over by Canadian Pacific
SUPER DC-6B's . . . New, pressurized,
air-conditioned giant “Empresses of the Air”
with more space per passenger . . . Canadian
Pacific, the most luxurious service across the
Pacific, gives you an overnight stop in glamor-
ous Honolulu ... at no extra cost.
A
Fun and romance under the stars . . . silver-
tipped surf in the moonlight . . . thrilling
Hawaiian dance bands . . . open air native
feasts . . . grass-skirted hula dancers . . .
you’ll never forget an evening in Honolulu!
,**• EUROPE
VANCOUVER
HONOLULU
V'S.
!•»••*** san^
FRANCISCO
TOKYO
HONGKONG
r -• MEXICO
■■N SUPER DC6B ROUTE CITY
■HI CONNECTING CARRIERS
m
’ FIJI
AUCKLAND
SYDNEY
Excellent connections at Vancouver with Trans-
Canada Air Lines to Europe; at Honolulu, with
U.S.A. carriers. For full details, consult
(PftciMc
AIRLINES
at 247 George Si., Sydney and 59 William Si., Melbourne
or Union Steam Ship Co. (General Agents).
CRIPPLING RHEUMATIC FAINS
quickly eased with
D
TRADE MARK I
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
9 During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups. /
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
• DOLCIN is non-toxic.
• DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
• DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years.
• 1,100,000,000 tablets have been administered throughout
the world.
• DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
. DOLCIN is obtainable from your chemist.
k <r
*****
nH® 0
iA i«a
1.0 P"
□A**
****
[#*
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLGIM
Informative literature on Dolda
will be sent on request to Dolda
(Australia) Pty, Ltd., Box ISS2,
G.P.0., Sydney.
DA.2
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Share Prices Strengthen
The sharemarket has again
been showing revived strength,
mainly, as previously suggested
here, in the second-line stocks.
Typical among shares to attract
increased demand have been
Bradford Cotton (5.6 p.c. yield),
Masonite (5.5 p.c.), Frederic Ash
(5.7 p.c.). Swans (5.8 p.c.),
Malcolm Moore (9 p.c.), Bitumen
and Oil (5.5 p.c.) and Wormald
Industries (5.9 p.c.). There are
hopes, in some cases, that where
dividends were cut a point or
two in 1951-52 the cut will be
restored this year. In most of
the cases quoted above main-
tenance of the previous year’s
div.-rate would still provide a
return well above the bond-rate
and semi-public-borrowing rate,
and at the same time offer pros-
pects of enhancement in any
general trade expansion.
The wool cheque for the year
in respect of which most public
companies balance was £404
million (from 3,888,753 bales
sold), compared with £307
million (from 3,409,312 bales) in
the previous season (which fol-
lowed the record cheque of £636
million from 3,547,195 bales).
Average price for greasy was
81.8 d., compared with 72.4 d. and
144.2 d. in the two preceding
years.
The wool season closed on a
slightly uncertain note, but prices
were still satisfactory. Industry
now awaits the reopening of the
new selling season about the end
of August and presentation of
the Federal Budget about the
same time. Market tone in the
final quarter of this year will
depend a good deal on what
these events bring forth.
B.H.P. has shown increased
earnings from much higher pro-
duction. Long-term prospects
for industrial profit-earning and
for industrial-share prices depend
on the trend of costs, and this in
turn depends on the amount
of production rendered by
workers each week in return
for „their pay-envelopes. In-
efficiency and underproduc-
tion are still outstanding
features of most Government
“business undertakings,” and
unfortunately these have a con-
siderable effect on the costs of
private industry. Also the decline
in export prices for wheat,
metals, sugar, etc., will increase
pressure for higher local prices
for these things.
The buying of industrial shares
still needs to be done with selec-
tion and care. Great attention
should be given to the question
of efficiency in management, and
whether the company in question
is likely to encounter competi-
tion from other countries either
in its domestic or overseas mar-
kets.
Motor-tyre Industry
The motor-tyre industry as a
whole has had a comparatively
poor year. Retail sales picked
“ Don’t worry about your fees —just get me out of this
and I'll soon knock out some.”
up a little in May and June
notwithstanding the uncertainty
in regard to sales-tax, but turn-
over for the 12 months was well
under the average for the pre-
ceding three years. In 1952,
which was a year of record out-
put, Dunlop showed a net profit
equal to IS p.c. on ord. capital,
and paid 8 p.c. Interim for the
current year has been at the rate
of 7 p.c. The shares have had a
highest price of 31s. 9d. in this
year’s market and a lowest of
275. 6d. Latest sales have been
at 295. 6d., to yield 5.4 p.c.
should the 8 p.c. distribution be
maintained.
Olympic Tyre Co., which
showed 22 p.c. on ord. capital in
1952, and paid 14 p.c., has de-
clared an interim of 13 p.c. for
the past year. Its ss. ords. are
at 15s. 6d., to return 4.5 p.c. at
the 1952 full div. rate. Some
large retail organisations, and
some transport firms, still have
substantial stocks of tyres bought
a year or more ago. But once
the question of sales tax is
settled by presentation of the
Budget (about September) there
should be a picking-up in the
tyre trade. It doesn’t necessarily
need to be a reduction in sales
tax to stimulate sales. So long
as retailers and users are sure
they won’t be caught during the
next 12 months by a drop in tax
there should be more confident
buying.
Minster, Ltd.
Minster, Ltd., 10s. stock-units
have had a fairly brisk turnover
in both Melbourne and Sydney
since they were listed a few
weeks ago. The factories of the
subsidiaries Westminster Car-
pets and Whitehead Chemicals —
are both in Dandenong, outside
Melbourne, and represent a
modern set-up. Westminster
rubber-and-hessian based carpet
is now used almost universally
in motor-cars, and the domestic
demand is in excess of supply.
The manufacturing method is
revolutionary, requiring com-
paratively little labor, and the
product is attractive and durable.
The plant would be difficult to
duplicate by competitors. Re-
cently holders of Minster shares
received a p.c. distribution in
respect of the six months prior to
conversion into a public co. Re-
sults for the year to June 30 are
yet to be announced, but it has
been an extremely busy period.
With Minster, Ltd., now control-
ling Whitehead Chemicals
(which supplies Westminster
with its processed rubber, as
well as making other chemicals),
it is a compact organisation. The
10s. units, which fluctuated be-
low 20s. on ’Change for a time,
have risen to 21s. 6d. since pay-
ment of the 6i p.c. div. At that
price the yield is 5.9 p.c. on a
\l\ p,c. div. basis, or 7 p.c. if
the rate rises to 15 p.c.
Passiona Bottling (Sydney)
The market is not impressed
by the latest results and maiden
5 p.c. div, of this recent starter
in the fruit-juice-cordial- and
soft-drink-manufacturing busi-
ness. It prices the ss. shares at
4s. 2d., to yield 6 p.c.; earlier
this year the shares fetched
4s. 9d. The reasons for the dis-
appointing showing are stiff com-
petition in the industry and
exceptionally mild weather last'
summer.
Passiona is by no means alone
in its difficulties—the market
has marked down even further
the shares of newcomers Canada
Dry and Consolidated Beverages
(Pepsi-Cola), while shares in the
old-established Marchants busi-
ness can be got for about par.
Passiona Bottling aerates and
markets Passiona and other high-
quality cordials and syrups made
by Cottee’s Passiona, Ltd,, under
a franchise from that co. For
the franchise, which covers most
of the County of Cumberland
(including Sydney metropolitan),
and trade-marks, brands, tech-
nical assistance, etc., Cottee’s
received 100,000 ss. deferred
shares in th£ bottling co.; these
tet nothing until the ords. are
laid 6 p.c.
Some comparative figures:
Apr.,’s2. Apr.,’s3.
Depreciation .. £3,489 £4,649
Tax .. .. £542 £3,822
Net Profit .. £542 £5,989
Profit p.c, to
capital* .. 0.7 8.0
Ord. div. p.c. Nil 5
Capital:
Ordinary .. £75,000 £75,000
Deferred .. £25,000 £25,000
Reservesf .. £542 £2,058
* Excluding deferred capital,
t Subject to intangibles, now £27,500.
The board feels that the co.
has made good progress in estab-
lishing its business, and is
hopeful that, given normal
summer trade, it can improve on
the modest initial payout. But
it remains to be seen whether the
trade’s real difficulty is not over-
capitalisation, Cottee’s type of
products, especially Passiona, are
not so overproduced as the
general run of lolly-waters.
The 1952-53 year ended with
output of rayon fabrics up
nearly 50 p.c. on the average for
1951-52 and 1950-51. Chief
weavers of rayons in Australia
are Burlington Mills (Ruther-
ford, N.S.W.) and Bruck Mills
(Wangaratta, Vic.). The industry
in N. S. Wales has not been as
profitable as in Victoria, but
during the past year import
restrictions have helped sales.
Burlington ords. have lifted to
above 21s. since Bradford Cot-
ton acquired 233,000 £1 ords. in
the Australian co. from the U.S.
Burlington concern early this
year. Burlington has a paid
capital of £1,202,755, of which
£700,000 is in ords., the rest
mainly 5 p.c. prefs. Results of
operations at Rutherford have
been patchy, with divs. inter-
mittent, During the year to June
30 Burlington should have made
a reasonable profit (it paid 8 p.c.
in 1951). Bruck Mills, which
paid 6 p.c, in 1951 and 1\ p.c.
in 1952, has declared an interim
at the rate of 10 p.c. in respect
of the current year. Bruck has
a capital of £1,331,330, of which
£1,081,300 is in ords., £250,000
in 5 p.c. prefs.
Up 2s.
The 25.-a-week lift in the
basic wage (capital-cities
average) makes a rise of Bs.
over the past year, com-
pared with 425. in the pre-
ceding 12 months and 51s.
in the year before that. Tire
steadying of the basic wage,
together with the improved
trade-balance and prospects
of tax-relief in the next
Budget, are heartening indi-
cations of what can be
achieved by determined
effort. Next thing is to get
man-hour production up.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
dSUIXTVAN
man.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TBE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
No. 4 of a Series
Mm who
make Capita#,
—The Dependable Tobacco
**Conditioning” of tobacco leaf prior to manufacture
is very important. P. J. Hanney, for many of his
almost 50 years with the company, has been check-
ing the moisture content of “ Capstan” Tobacco to
ensure uniform factory freshness in every package
containing “ Capstan’s own blend.” Moisture con-
tent has an important bearing on all phases of
tobacco manufacture. With “Capstan ” it is most
carefully controlled. Watch for further interesting
advertisements in this series.
“Blended Better 99
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACCO
A GOOD WHISKY
MUST BE AGED
6nly in the wood can age
be achieved; and McCall urn’s
is mellowed with years
of care, and by the
skilled attention of
Scots distillers.
s
w
I-.:-:- 1
Wholly
distilled
and blended
in Scotland
che name is
(l) c CaUiuns
the whisky js
MCIB/6.2
Australasian Subscription Rates
TTie^ulletm.
12 months . . . . ..£ll6 0
6 months . . . . . . 18 6
3 months . . . . . . 9 6
Post-free whether ordered direct from Box 2521, G.P.O
Sydney, or through any newsagent.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
The story of Queues and
Queueing has yet to be written.
For anyone with a pair of
observant eyes and a moderate
capacity for research our capital
city offers limitless material to
the perspicacious author,
whether he be a painstaking com-
piler of facts and statistics or a
deep-meaning social historian.
Queueing, one vaguely remem-
bers, first became general dur-
ing the later days of the Kaiser’s
war. It was an anxious and
painful habit, with food running
out and Western Front casualties
mounting, that was thankfully
dropped in the ’twenties. Only
during Hitler’s war does it seem
to have attained a social signi-
ficance. Then housewives, united
by cheerful and determined reso-
lution in the face of intermittent
bombardment, found consolation
and strength in communal
exchanges. But they, too, have
probably had enough.
The ramifications of queueing
are no longer local but national
—often, indeed, international.
First in the queue for the
Coronation was an American,
three days in advance; first for
the Lord’s Test was an Aus-
tralian who set down his camp-
stool in the late afternoon, 18
hours before play began. Let no
one say that the British —or their
domiciles —are an effete race.
A night’s vigil on a St. John’s
Wood pavement is slightly un-
comfortable, but no more. The
technique of queueing is at once
advanced and complex, with a
range of portable amenities no
less compact, ingenious and
comprehensive than that of the
Himalayans. And it was a fine
night in high summer. Not so
Coronation Eve, when the wind
blew cold and the rain fell in
drenching sheets. Not so the
bleak nights last October when
bedraggled but determined
Spartans waited long hours for
the Toscanini concerts. Not so
in deep winter when chafing
queues hang by impatiently and
not always in good order for
coveted places at Cup-ties.
There is a nice distinction be-
tween the two kinds of queuer—
those who mean, at all costs, to
get there first; and those who
merely want to be sure of a
place. In the one instance it is
a cult; in the other, a precau-
tion. The cult will always have
its adherents, stoical, adven-
turous and unperturbed but
comparatively few. What of the
rest, the main bulk of spec-
tators? They, too, it would
seem, are committed to longer
and longer waits. For, as public
consciousness of the big event
increases, so must the determina-
tion not to be left out.
At Lord’s on the third day
(Saturday) some 15,000 were
queueing at 7 a.m., having
caught first trains ; and 20,000,
arriving later, were turned away.
What will 1957 portend? Pre-
sumably an all-night stand for
everybody.
TV For Sale?
A wordy battle is raging on
all fronts over the future of tele-
vision. Although the main issue
—sponsoring or an extension of
8.8. C. control —is clear enough,
the side-issues grow more and
more complicated. Even when
the overgrowth is cleared away
the path of events is still hard
to discern and the direction it
points is impossible to deter-
mine.
This much is clear: television
is such an expensive service to
run (it costs the 8.8. C. £l3OO
per programme-hour) that it
might survive,, but could never
develop without some form of
sponsoring, whether State or
private. The 8.8. C. has plans
drawn up for an alternative
service, but must first complete
the five medium-power and the
eight low-power stations. Also,
money is short, the more parti-
cularly as the Government
appropriates 15 per cent, of the
licence-fees as extra taxation.
Sponsoring being implicit,
potential advertisers and the
radj.o trade have made a rush
for the ground-floor. In Parlia-
ment a small but astute number
of Conservative back-benchers
have turned sponsoring into a
political issue “competitive”
(not “commercial”) television
versus the evils of monopoly.
Their crusading was soon to be
revealed as somewhat less than
altruistic —several of the prime
movers are connefcted with radio-
manufacturers or advertising
practitioners—and British feel-
ings were inflamed by reports of
American treatment of the
Coronation telefilm. So that
what had been a straightforward
but quite unnecessary political
issue between Right and Left
appeared in a new light; and
many prominent Conservatives,
previously ignorant of the
ulterior designs of the pressure-
group, expressed their disap-
proval and gave their active sup-
port to the non-political National
Television Council.
This body, fearful of the great
influence of TV and a debase-
ment of the public taste, says, in
effect: “Don’t, or it will be too
late! ” On the other side, spokes-
men of the Associated Broadcast-
ing Development Company
argue that the enormities and
excesses that happen elsewhere
can’t possibly happen here. For
the company will own the “time”
which they will apportion to
advertisers much as newspapers
sell space. The company, not
the sponsor, will own the pro-
gramme.
As the participants grow more
heated and intent upon their
ends they naturally tend to press
harder for a Government de-
cision. But it is unlikely that
the Cabinet will yield. The
affair is, after all, trivial when
compared with other problems.
With Mr. Eden ill and, now,
Mr. Churchill forced to rest, the
storm that burst over the appear-
ance of a chimpanzee can well
be allowed to die down.
Ben Jonson & Co.
Whatever else may be said of
our contemporary dramatists
they do make exemplary citizens.
We are even —on this side of the
Channel, at any rate —denied the
spiced venom of an occasional
literary feud. It was not always
so.
Imagine, shall we say, Mr.
T. S. Eliot becoming enraged
because a younger admirer, Mr.
Christopher Fry, had written a
play round him which, so far
from doing honor, merely made
of him an insipid caricature.
Then an Eliot play in retaliation,
followed by a Fry counter-
attack, the fury growing in
frenzied bitterness (just like, in
fact, a marginal by-election).
Mr. Fry then joins forces with
Mr. Terence Rattigan. Mr.
Eliot relents, makes up to Mr.
Fry and the three sit down to-
gether and write a comedy. A
passage which holds the Scots
up to ridicule is so offensive as
to cause Messrs. Fry and
Rattigan to be cast into prison.
There can be no bailing-out.
The only way to freedom is for
Mr. Eliot to get himself
imprisoned with them and then
to prevail upon his friends at
Court, including the Lord
Chamberlain, to intervene and
secure a joint release!
Preposterous as this may
seem, it is not without parallel,
for these are the events that in
actual fact led to the production
of that most joyous comedy of
tradesmanship in the City of
London, “Eastward Ho! ” which
currently is filling the Mermaid
Theatre on the Royal Exchange.
It is, of course, a revival of a
350-year-old piece of arrant
show-business that was never
aimed beyond the groundlings.
If the school curriculum has
nothing to gain from this
belated discovery the theatre
certainly has.
What sort of a brain-child
would result from an Eliot-Fry-
Rattigan collaboration is purely
a matter for conjecture. But this
Jonson-Marston-Chapman pro-
duct is a masterpiece of its kind,
a well-knit, unified piece of light-
hearted make-believe that is
funnier than “The Shoemaker’s
Holiday” and truer to life than
“Bartholomew Fair.” If praise
has previously fallen hesitantly
and perfunctorily upon Bernard
Miles and his Mermaid players
their faces must as surely shine
from the thankful tributes of the
critics as their hearts must warm
to the spontaneous delight of the
audiences.
An affair of a goldsmith with
two daughters, one flighty and
flash, the other timid and
virtuous; two apprentices, one
an errant playboy, the other a
prig with a touch of kindness ; a
foolish knight with sufficient
roguish sense to abscond with
the flighty one’s money; a
cuckold usurer; a flight east-
ward ; a shipwreck off the Isle
of Dogs; a foul jail; a
Jonsonian act of self-incarcer-
ation by the prig and final
amends.
Altogether a robust, up-
roarious performance in high
and delicate style which makes
no pretence of recondite
“culture,” and which benefits
from the cunning simplicity of
the Elizabethan multiple-stage.


*
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
UNION TRUSTEE uses *"Locol knowledge 11 to benefit
YOUR ESTATE
THERE is one exclusive feature of Union Trustee Company
service that can be of direct benefit to your estate. This is
the “local knowledge” gained by having offices, in three capital
cities. Each office has its individual Board of Directors, each
its own highly skilled staff of experts. Thus, whether an
estate has interests in more than one State, or is concentrated
in a single area, the Company is ideally equipped to act as
Executor, Trustee or Attorney.
In appointing Union Trustee as your Executor you are assured
of continuity of service—and charges are exceedingly moderate
for the services rendered.
A senior officer of the Company will gladly explain in detail
the wide variety of services it performs.
Call or write for your copy of the booklet, **lmportant Facts”
—which will be forwarded post free.
U N io N
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria! Established 1885
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
UTI2D
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Consolidated Zinc Corp., Ltd.
Parent and Subsidiaries.
(after eliminating outside interests.)
(All amounts in sterling.)
f— —Dividends
Pref. Ord.* To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 4} p.c. 12J p.c. serves. serves.f
’49.. 938,5721 43,023 450,172 445,377 3,216,714
From subsidiary tax reserves,
etc., £397,856 3,614,570
’50.. 1,429,680 110,796 434,824 884,060 4,498,630
Intangibles written off, £850,420 .. 4,148,210
Proceeds sale assets, £135,889 .. 4,284,099
20 p.c.
’51.. 2,404,708 105,760 687,535 1,611,413 5,895,512
Provision written back, £180,334 .. 6,075,846
Surplus on acquisition, £20,705 .. 6,096,551
Tax overprovided, £73,958 .. 6,170,509
Unexplained addition, £2619 .. 6,173,128
15 p.c.
’52.. 1,671,150 105,760 532,021 1,033,869 7,206,497
* Rate is declared rate, but amount is shown less
English income tax. f Excludes specific provisions,
£1,858,095 31/12/’52. | Excludes three months’
pre-acquisition profits (£288,547) subsidiaries.
The prosperity of this big London-
controlled group of integrated mining,
smelting and ancillary interests depends
mainly upon the relative levels of
demand, metal prices, production and
costs. The parent holding co has
£11,024,573 of capital to feed, of which
£4,476,626 carries a cumulative 4\ p.c.,
and assets (consolidated accounts) totalled
£31,647,127 at December 31 last.
There are four subsidiaries in Australia
and one in the U.K. The Australian off-
shoots are; Zinc Corp. (lead-zinc mining
at the Barrier); Sulphide Corp, (which
turns out sulphuric acid, superphosphate
and cement at Cockle Creek, near New-
castle) ; B.H. Corp. (which has a 50 p.c.
interest in B.H. Associated Smelters at
Port Pirie, and 32 p.c. interest in New
B.H. Consolidated ; and Consolidated Zinc
Pty. (which owns five small offshoots in-
terested in sawmilling, treatment of
beach sands, electric-power production
and search for new mineral deposits).
As agent" for the Federal Government
the co. is also doing some deep test-
drilling at Radium Hill (S. Aus.), and is
making a detailed examination of
uranium deposits at Rum Jungle (N.T.),
and is to develop and work any found
rich enough. The English subsidiary is
Imperial Smelting Corp., which owns all
the issued capital in National Smelting
Corp., operating zinc-roasters, smelters
and sulphuric-acid plants at Avonmouth,
Swansea, Seaton Carew and Newport.
The National co. also owns a string of
subsidiary and associated concerns in
the U.K.
Last term was one of disillusionment
and disappointment to lead-zinc pro-
ducers, the chairman says. In 1951 Gov-
ernments were clamoring for supplies ; as
1952 advanced demand weakened, with
consumers holding off and reducing in-
ventories. Prices for both metals broke
in April and May, 1952, and have con-
tinued to slip since. Average sterling
prices received by Zinc Corp. per ton
of metal sold were:
Lead— 1951. 1952.
Overseas .. £147 9 10 £ll4 3 9
Australian .. 53 6 9 62 6 2
Zinc—•
Overseas .. 176 10 7 189 18 9
Australian . . 50 10 0 59 19 4
Together with the reduced demand for
processed products, one result was a drop
of £4,003,922 in combined gross profits
of the group (£3,783,163). After allow-
ing £769,533 (up £68,215) for deprecia-
tion £1,215,734 (down £3/267,379) for
taxation, and £85,837 (up £19,871) for
directors’ remuneration (there are nine
on the board), the declared net result was
£733,558 lighter at £1,671,150. That ex-
cludes various additions to reserves total-
ling £277,616 interlined in the intro-
ductory table.
The £1,671,150 of profit was enough
to pay the pref. div. (£105,760) and show
23.9 p.c. on the £6,547,947 of ord. capital
as against 35.1 p.c. and 20.1 p.c. for the
two preceding terms. The gross rate of
dividend was lowered from 20 p.c. to
15 p.c., subject to U.K. income tax of
9s. in the £, which makes 15 p.c. worth
8.25 p.c. stg., equal to 10.31 p.c. in Aus-
tralian currency at the current rate of
exchange.
Zinc Corp., one of the major con-
tributors to the pool, milled 449,282 tons
of slightly lower-grade ore for 77,214
tons lead concentrates and 87,353 tons
of 52.6 p.c. zinc concentrates. The lead
concentrates, treated at Port Pirie, con-
tained 56,583 tons (down 2399 tons) of
Recoverable lead and 1,329,2930 z. silver.
Over 20 p.c. of the lead and more than
33 p.c. of the zinc concentrates were
sold in Australia. At December 31 last
there was 5,800,000 tons of blocked ore
in the mine, assaying 14.7 p.c. lead, 3oz.
silver and 11.3 p.c. zinc; and there is
a lot more payable stuff outside the
measured limits.
The position of New Broken Hill,
which adjoins Zinc Corp., was reviewed
B. 17/6/’53. The Associated Smelters
co. at Port Pirie expects to have its new
sulphuric-acid plant in operation before
the end of 1953. At Cockle Creek
(N.S.W.) new acid and superphosphate
plants are being erected at a cost of
about £1,000,000. Production capacity
of Imperial Smelting Corp. has also been
greatly increased by erection of addi-
tional isulphuric-acid and zinc-smelting
units.
Capital expenditure last year totalled
£1,773,550, of which £881,528 was on
account of smelting and other plants in
the U.K. The net addition to freeholds
and plant was £1,016,703:
Consolidated Accounts.
1950. 1951. 1952.
£stg. £stg. £stg.
Paid capital ~ £11,024,573 £11,024,573 £11,024,573
Specific reserves 1,424,162 1,596,602 1.858,095
Outside interests* 2,269,729 2,360,581 2,085,057
Debentures .. 1,080,000 1,080,000 1,003,077
Sundry creditors,
etc 3,284,592 4,429,537 2,507,796
Tax provisions 5,073,332 7,672,040 5,430,011
Final divs. .. 490,223 740,415 532,021
Mine property 4,224,372 4,224,372 4,224,372
Freehold, plant,
etc 6,585,806 7,398,959 8,415,662
Trade invest-
ments .. 4,251,294 3,735,284 8,985,910
Stocks .. 3,883,648 5,952,605 7,251,577
Book debts .. 4,717,294 5,809,759 3,432,347
Cash, etc. .. 5,132,348 8,178,331 4,337,269
Intangibles . . 350,420
* Outside shareholders’ interests.
Stocks increased by £1,298,972 and book-
debts were reduced by £1,877,412, due
to trade recession and better delivery of
zinc concentrates. The big holding of
cash, etc., was drawn upon for £3,841,072.
Internally the co. is well endowed,
technically and financially, and there has
been some improvement in demand since
the close of accounts. Chief obstacle to
improved net earnings is low metal prices
and still-high level of costs. On July 15
the London spot prices of lead and zinc
were £S9I 12s, 6d. and £S72 12s. 6d.
respectively.
On the Australian market the £1 ords.
at 28s. (335. 3d. a year ago) return 7.1
p.c. on the basis of last term’s distri-
bution, and with taxation and exchange
as they are.
Bruntons Holdings, Ltd.
Consolidated Figures.
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves, t
1952.. 65,735 10 p.c.=a 85,000 ( „ s
Prelim, exes, written off. £2460 J 28,276 112,765
f Subject to £89,690 excess cost over par value of
shares in subsidiaries.
Accounts for the first full year’s trading
of the Brunton group as a public co. dis-
close healthy earning-power and a com-
fortable financial structure, in which the
chief earning asset (four flourmills) is very
conservatively valued in the books.
Registered in Sydney in October, 1951,
the present holding co. bought all the
shares in two old-established concerns,
T. Brunton and Co. (Melbourne) and
Brunton and Co. (Sydney), as from Nov.
30, 1951—the foundations of the busi-
ness were laid when the Hon. Thomas
Brunton and partner set up a flourmill
at Melbourne in 1868, and control of
the business has since remained in the
hands of the Brunton family. When
recently taken over, combined paid capital
of the two cos. totalled £199,651, and
their reserves £84,358. The price paid by
the holding co, was £288,548 in f.-p. ss.
shares. There was no writing-up of
assets to current market-values. Freehold
properties hnd plant, which stood in the
books at £260,601, were insured for
£1,213,525. Then to qualify for listing
of the shares on ’Change, reduce the
outside debt (chiefly the overdraft), and
provide further working capital, the hold-
ing co. offered the public 245,802 new
ss. shares at par, and the issue was
quickly oversubscribed. Paid capital thus
became in ss, shares.
For the four years prior to amalgama-
tion, and before making any provision
for taxation, combined net earnings of
the pair were shown in the prospectus at
£57,029, 1948; £65,237, 1948; £50,130,
1950; £63,821, 1951. Subsequent de-
velopments suggest that the figures were
conservatively stated.
The mills, of which two are in Vic-
toria (Melbourne and Rupanyup) and
two in N. S. Wales (Clyde and Gun-
nedah), have their own railway sidings
and, when working full time, handle
approximately 4,500,000 bushels of wheat
and produce some 95,000 tons of flour
annually, as well as large quantities of
bran, pollard, wheatmeal, stockmeal,
etc. The flour, some of which appears
as well-known proprietary lines, sells in
both local and export markets. Locally
the buying-price of wheat and selling-
price of flour, etc., are controlled. The
export market is an open one.
Last term the two Victorian mills
worked to capacity, but running-time of
the two in N. S. Wales was curtailed,
owing to shortage of wheat in that State.
The entire output of the four mills was
sold, and stocks and the outside debt
were reduced, too. After allowing
£14,087 for depreciation, a generous
£84,641 for taxation, and something for
other contingencies, combined net earn-
ings were figured at £65,735, equal to
17.5 p.c. on capital. So payment of the
10 p.c. div. was probably a more com-
fortable matter than it looked. After
writing off preliminary exes. (£2460), the
£28,275 that remained lifted reserves to
£112,765, or £23,075 in excess of the cost
of shares in subsidiaries over their par
value.
The cash-paid capital already referred
to, together with reduction in stocks
(down £40,967) and surplus earnings, etc.,
enabled £157,057 to be clipped off the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
including tax reserve:
Consolidated Figures.* jf,
June,’s2. Peb.,’s3.
£ £
Paid capital .. .. 350,000 350,000
Proposed div. .. .. 17,500
Creditors, etc. .. .. ( J 81,532
Tax provision .. .. J 82,637
Inter-co. suspense .. .. 27,666
Freeholds 110,363 111,243
Plant 150,238 147,452
Stock 98,857 57,890
Debtors 234,790 240,870
Inter-co. suspense .. .. 58,458
Cash, etc 10,991 24,955
Intangibles . . . . .. 92,150 89,690
* Accounts of subsidiaries made up to October 31
and November 30.
When the books closed current assets, in-
cluding stocks, exceeded current liabili-
ties by £114,380.
The immediate outlook isn’t as good
as it was a year ago. The wheat crops
in Victoria and N. S. Wales are insuffi-
cient to keep the mills working full-time,
and in the export market competition has
sharpened and buyers are hesitant be-
cause of doubts about extension of the
international wheat agreement. Still, the
board is hopeful that the current year’s
results will not be disappointing.
On ’Change the f.-p. ss. shares
advanced from 7s. to 9s. over the last
couple of weeks. At the higher figure
the return is 5.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div,
basis. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is ss. 4d.
James Hardie Asbestos, Ltd.
Parent Co.
Mar. To Re- Re-
-31. Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.t
& £ £> &
Reserves capitalised, £248,513 .. 381,017
1949.. 82,969 8* p.c. = 65,039 17,930 398,947
Added reserves, £8948 .. .. 402,895
1950.. 104,028 10 p.c. = 76,551 27,477 430,372
Added reserves, £3248 .. .. 433,620
1961.. 364.§05 10 p.e. ; = 76,551 288,05 4 721,674
Consolidated Figures.
Added reserves, £3334 .. .. 1,910,253
Reserves capitalised, £382,714 .. 1,527,539
1952. .200.403 8 p.c. = 91,929 108,474 1,636,013
Added reserves, £3451 .. .. 1,639,464
1953. .293,835 8 p.c. = 92,000 201,835 1,841,299
t Subject to goodwill, £5)8,448 at 31/3/’53.
The figure prior to 1952 are those of
the parent holding co. only, being mainly
dividend received from the two subsidiaries
—James Hardie Asbestos Pty., Australia,
and James Hardie Asbestos Pty.,
New Zealand —less exes., and are subject
to varying amounts of ordinary Federal
and private-co. taxation. Those for the
last two years are combined net earnings,
etc,, of the group, after allowing for
taxation, etc., and therefore provide a
truer picture of the undertaking from
the investor’s point of view.
The foundations of the business were
laid as far back as 1888 by James Hardie,
who set up in Sydney as merchant and
importer. In 1916 a separate co. was
formed to manufacture asbestos-cement
slates and sheets, and later the two busi-
nesses were amalgamated. In 1937 a
subsidiary was set up in New Zealand,
and a holding co., Hardie Asbestos
Cement Pty., was formed to unify control
of the two undertakings. In 1941 activi-
ties spread to South Australia, where a
jointly-owned concern, with Wunderlich,
Ltd., as the other partner, commenced
manufacture of asbestos-cement sheets,
etc. The holding co. changed its name
to James Hardie Asbestos, Ltd., in 1951,
and in the following year the scrip was
listed on Sydney ’Change.
Today main products of the group are
asbestos-cement flat and corrugated
sheets, guttering, down-pipes and flue-
pipes, high-pressure water-pipes, conduit,
“Tilux,” brake-linings, insulating
materials and terra-cotta roofing tiles.
During the post-war boom demand ran
ahead of factory output, turnover
bounded along, and substantial additions
were made to premises and plant. The
next table shows the number and value
of fibro-cement houses completed in Aus-
tralia during the half-dozen years to
June 30, 1952:
NEW HOUSES COMPLETED IN AUSTRALIA.
(Fibro Cement.)
Year, £ Year £
June 30. No. Mill. June 80. No. Mill*
1947.. 10,605 9.9 1950.. 14,848 19.7
1948.. 13,100 13.3 1951.. 17,842 26.1
1949.. 14,504 17.2 1952.. 19,867 34.7
The figures exclude construction work in
connection with shops, factories, etc.,
which helped to swell turnover, too.
And shareholders have fared well.
Although the div. was lowered from
12.6 p.c. for 1947 and 1948 to 8i p.c.
for 1949, followed by two lots of 10 p.c.
and then 8 p.c. for the two years to the
close of last accounts, the distributions
were ail made from a tax-free reserve, in
which there was still £214,431 at March
31, 1953. Moreover, paid capital
advanced from £497,100 to £1,150,000
during the same period with the aid ot
only £21,673 of cash subscriptions. The
other £631,227 was bonus scrip, which
makes 8 p.c. worth 18.2 p.c. on capital
as it stood in 1947. The last gift
(£382,714 in 1951) came from an assets
revaluation reserve, reducing it to
£443,377.
Last term turnover increased, despite
the slackening of activity in the building
trade and public works during the latter


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Harks. — Advt.
LAKE VIEW AND STAR
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
Second Interim Dividend No. 76
Notice is hereby given that the
Directors have declared a Second
Interim Dividend in respect of the
year ended June 30, 1953, of THREE-
PENCE per share sterling, less
United Kingdom Income Tax at
NINE SHILLINGS in the £, the net
amount of Dividend being ONE
DECIMAL POINT SIX FIVE
PENCE per share sterling, payable
August 28, 1953.
The Transfer Books will be closed
from August 7 to 10, 1953, both days
inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of the
Dividend will be calculated at the
rate of Exchange ruling on August 7,
1953.
For LAKE VIEW AND STAR
LIMITED,
R. J. AGNEW,
Attorney.
Fimiston.
July 3, 1953.
JUST ARRIVED .
THE FAMOUS
ZEISS IKON
CAMERAS
I
.>.>lll 111.
CONTESSA, f 3.8 Tessar Bens. Compur Shutter. Built-in Ex-
posure Meter. £7l/8/6. Ever-ready case ,£4/19/0.
CONTINA f 3.8 Tessar Syncro Compur Rangefinder. £44/0/0.
Ever-ready case £4/15/6.
2| x 3|
IKOFEEX la f 3.5 Kovar Compur. £ 39/5/0. Ever-ready
case 5/H/o-
NETTAB 6.3 Novar Vario Shutter. £l3/8/0. Ever-ready
case .. £3/15/6.
CAIRNS
CAMERA
CENTRE
Be sure of yours —order
now. Limited supplies
available on easy terms,
lay-bys. We send C.O.D.
All orders over £2O
carriage FREE
CAIRNS
CAMERA CENTRE
Hotel Australia Building,
19 Martin Place,
Sydney
Concentration
M
SPaS
BBS!
■lli*
Lift*!!
m \
m
pns
.....
/-.1l
lii
on refining
AS MORE AND MORE PEOPLE Wish to
fly, and increasing numbers of air-
craft are brought into operation to
carry them, air transportation’s thirst
for oil grows.
To those who fly aircraft or who,
as passengers, are carried comfortably
and swiftly about the world, the
familiar sight of the green and yellow
fuellers of BP Aviation Service is the
outward sign of the very extensive
organisation working behind the
scenes to provide for these increasing
demands. But long before these
fuellers can perform their proper
function, adequate refinery capacity
must have been planned and built.
Anglo-Iranian is making stren-
uous efforts to increase its refinery
capacity, particularly to meet the
fuel demands of the new Jet Age.
Already new refineries are in produc-
tion, and expansion goes on apace in
Great Britain, Australia, Africa and
in Europe. This concentration on
refinery expansion will enable BP
Aviation Service to play its part in
meeting the air world’s future jet
fuel requirements.
3
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
Marketers in Australia for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.
half of the year. Combined net
earnings were £93,432 stronger
at £293,835. That was after
allowing £169,867 (down
£56,276) for depreciation,
£360,898 (up £2962) for taxation
and sending £31,104 (up £2143)
to the staff fund. The £293,835
was 25.5 p.c. on capital as
against 17.4 p.c. for the previous
year. After paying the 8 p.c.
div., £201,835 (68.7 p.c.) of the
year’s profit was ploughed back
into the business, lifting reserves
to £1,841,299, subject to £98,448
of goodwill, etc.
Balance-sheet figures reflect
preparations for still bigger
trading;
Consolidated Figures.
1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,150,000 £1,150,006
Mortgage . . . . 300,000 300,000
Overdraft .. .. 238,805 571,776
Sundry creditors. . 721,566 650,487
Tax provision .. 562,468 709,188
Final dividend . . 46,000 46,000
Freeholds, plant,
etc 2,097,738 - 2,298,324
Shares subsids. .. 171,658 178,483
Stocks .. . . 1,456,968 1,889,865
Sundry debtors .. 763,214 741,846
Govt, stock .. 66,826 66,835
Goodwill .. .. 98,448 98,448
The year’s net addition to fixed
assets was £200,586 and to stocks
£432,897. To meet the outlay
and clip £71,079 off the amount
coming to sundry creditors, the
co. went to its bankers for an
extra £332,971, and book-debts
were reduced by £21,368. Stocks,
which appear at the lower of cost
or market-value, dominate the
financial structure. The growth
in this item was due mainly to
higher prices for raw materials
and partly to lighter trading to-
wards the close of accounts.
Turnover has picked-up again
since the books were ruled off,
but the factories are not yet
working to capacity. The
market, which notes the wide
margin between earnings and dis-
tributions, expresses its con-
fidence in the future of the
undertaking by pricing the £1
shares at 41s. 6d. (38s. 6d. in
February last) to return 3.8 p.c.
on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The
investor who looks for 4.8 p.c.
on his money counts on the div.
being lifted to 10 p.c. Net
tangible cover is 50s. 3d,
Guinea Airways, Ltd.
t —Dividends——,
Net Pref. Ord. Re-
Feb., Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. serves.
£ £ £ £
1947 . . 16,247 5,600 5,600 84,531
Comp. Darwin serv. £18,440. . 102,971
1948 . . 16,599 5,600 5,600 108,370
Profits prior years, £15,000.. 123,370
1949 . . 12,314 5,600 5,600 124,484
1950 . . 14,754 5,600 5,600 128,038
Unex’p’d addition, £1375.. 129,413
8i p.c. 8J p.c.
1951 .. 19,353 6,800 6.800 135,166
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1952 . . 20,319 8,000 8,000 139,485
1953 . . 28,842 8,000 8,000 147,327
This is now mainly an invest-
ment co,, and it seems likely to
remain so for some time, at any
rate. Its widespread portfolio of
shareholdings (book - value
£343,745) accounted for over
68 p.c. of total assets at Feb. 28
last. After a successful career in
developing air-transport, first in
New Guinea and then on the
Adelaide-Darwin run, which was
taken over by the Government,
the co.’s flying activities are now
confined to South Australia and
the Lower Darling area. The
service is profitable, but would
not be so if depreciation were
charged on the basis of today’s
replacement cost of aircraft.
The co.’s present machines will
enable it to continue existing
services for some years to come.
What will happen when the
machines cease to be airworthy,
the board will decide according
to circumstances when the time
arrives. Meanwhile, income
from investments alone is suf-
ficient to ensure continuance of
dividends at “satisfactory rates.”
Earnings of the two sections
of the business are not separated
in the published accounts.
Assuming that cash and invest-,
ments (together £438,181) turned
in only 3| p.c. net, equal to
£16,431, or 10.3 p.q. on paid capi-
tal, then the air-services contri-
buted £7411 to last term’s profit.
During the year they carried
81,732 (up 1655) passengers and
2,088,6401 b. (up 425,1771 b.) of
freight. Total profit of £23,842
(up £3523) was 14,9 p.c. on
capital as against 12.7, 12.1, 9.2
and 7.7 p.c. for the four preced-
ing years. The div. was main-
tained at an all-round 10 p.c.
During the year the co. sold
£140,000 (face-value) of Com-
monwealth bonds at a loss of
£7903, and invested part of the
proceeds in shares in other cos.
(£333,537, up £50,127), thereby
effecting a saving in taxation.
The loss was more than offset by
disclosure of £10,899 of inner
reserves, etc.; the remaining
£2997 was added to the invest-
ment fluctuation reserve (now
£33,384), which is deducted from
the book-value of investments in
the published accounts.
Here is the position as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1961. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital £160,000 £160,000 £160,000
Creditorst .. 76,953 125,495 110,631
Tax prov’sion 38,420 22,240 40,206
Final divs... 8,400 10,400 10,400
Fixed assets 19,121 13,101 8,007
Debtors .. 9,524 14,872 55,760
Shares, etc. 180,495 263,231 *310,361
Cash and Govt. r
securities 204,399 166,916 94,436
t Includes provision for overhaul of air-
craft, £42,352 at Feb. 28, 1953.
* After deducting investment reserve,
£33,384.
Shareholdings comprise 73
separate parcels as against 57 a
year ago. Their present market-
value is less than their book-
value, the chairman says. Since
the purpose of the portfolio is to
secure a regular income, fluctua-
tions in its market-value is not
of any immediate consequence.
One half of the £160,000 of
capital is in 7 p.c. prefs., which
advance with the ords. in any
distribution beyond that rate,
but do not share in surplus
assets. On a 10 p.c. div. basis
the ords. at 325. (same as a year
ago) return 6.3 p.c., and the
prefs. at 28s. 6d. yield 7 p.c.
Excluding the investment fluctua-
tion reserve, net tangible cover
is 765. lOd. prefs. and 565. lOd.
ords.
Rawang Tin Fields
This big Sydney-controlled
Malayan tin-producer (paid
capital £876,003 in 10s. shares)
has two dredges operating in the
Serendah and Rawang valleys,
Malaya, where the old leases are
now depleted, but new ones
await treatment.
The two machines combined
put up the following perform-
ance for the, half-dozen years
since repossession after the Jap
occupation:
A 7.
Dredged Value Recovery.
Year, ’OOO. C.y. T.o. Profit.
March, C.y. Lb. Tons. £
1948 . . 2454 .38 419.46 16,459
1949 . . 2292 ,31 316.33 16,110
1950 .. « 5245 .35 830.83 105,928
1951 . . 4973 .58 1285.48 240,368
1952 . . 5593 .47 1163.87 224,307
1953 . . 3674 .49 800.48 224,606
The drop in yardage treated and
tin-ore recovered last' term was
due to the closing-down of No.
2 dredge on April 24, 1952, fol-
lowing exhaustion of the Seren-
dah area. The surprising thing
was that the co. was able to show
£299 more profit at £224,606,
equal to 25.6 p.c. on capital. The
div. was maintained at a
nominal 2s. 6d. per share subject
to 30 p.c. Malayan tax, thus
making the net rate Is. 9d. a
share, or 17.5 p.c., which called
for £ls3,ooo—the final Is. 3d.
a share is to be sent out on
August 12 next.
Before closing down No. 2
machine handled 120,000 c.y.
for 27.4 tons t.o. at an average
cost of 14.66 d. a yard. No. 3
turned over 3,554,000 c.y. for
773.1 tons t.o. at an average
cost of 8.77 d. a yard. It was
No. 3’s heartening performance,
together with the slightly higher
price received for the metal, that
enabled net earnings and the
div. to be maintained. The
total of 800.48 tons t.o. re-
covered assayed 75.2 p.c., being
thus equal to 602 tons metallic
tifa, which realised an average
of £933 (up £3.5) per ton.
Transfer of No, 2 machine to
the. Sungei Choh area is well in
hand. The pontoon was launched
on March 8 last, and erection
of the superstructure and recon-
ditioning of the machinery has
begun. No. 3 dredge was ex-
pected to close down early this
month, and is to be transferred
to the Sungei Kuang area.
The directors’ report doesn’t
say when the two machines are
likely to set in again, nor what
the estimated cost of their trans-
fer amounts to, nor exactly what
yardage and average value of
ground lie ahead of them.
A year ago the chairman said
No. 2 was scheduled to set in
again about November, 1953 ;
that new mining leases over
645 acres of State land had
been approved; that this new
ground and the Sungei
Kuang leases, already issued,
should provide sufficient reserves
for the future working of
both machines ; but that average
bore - value of the ground
was considerably lower than the
co.’s original property, and
that shareholders must not expect
“sensational” results from future
operations. No doubt a lot more
detailed information will be
given at the annual meeting in
Kuala Lumpur (Malaya) on
July 28.
Financially the co. is well-
endowed to meet the cost of
dredge removals. At March 31
last it held cash, book-debts,
etc., totalling £834,890 against
outside liabilities' of‘ £265,943,
including tax provision and the
final div. Stores and spares
figured at £362,098. There was
£15,798 still to come from sale
of the Bangtoe area, and a
further £66,600-odd (final pay-
ment) is due in respect of the
co.’s war-damage claims, etc.
Expenditure to March 31 on
removal of No. 2 dredge was
£75,539, which had been capi-
talised.
At the moment the big im-
ponderable is the tin market.
The London average spot price
of the metal, which was £5964.5
for 1952 and £5957.2 for
January, 1953, had fallen to
£5740.9 for June and to
£5593 15s. on July 17. The
market prices the co.’s 10s. shares
at 125., or thereabouts.


Womeiw letter/
MELBOURNE
The opening night of “As You Like
It” at Her Majesty’s was quite a bril-
liantly-gowned occasion, despite that it
was about the coldest night this winter.
Mrs. Fred Dennett, wearing a lovely gown
of black velvet, was accompanied by
U.S. visitor Mrs. Harold Rabling. An
emerald-green angora coat was worn by
Moira Rankin. Mrs. Henry Stebbins’s
dinner-gown was of lilac French angora ;
of garnet-red velvet was the frock worn
by Mrs. Charles Norman. A full-length
coa|, of gold lame was the choice of Mrs.
H. A. Standish. In dove-grey faille with
a platina fox-cape stole was Mrs. Betty
Baragawanath. Over her black wool-
crepe gown Mrs. A. G. Warner wore a
cape of blue mink. Mrs. William
Gernon’s short sheath-frock was of white
embossed linen. Mrs. Brett Randall’s
gown was of primrose-toned taffeta, Mrs.
Everard Baillieu’s rose-pink faille. lane
Casson’s pretty frock was of pale-pink
organdie.
☆ ☆ ☆
Tall red candles in silver candelabra,
bowls of red and white flowers and trails
of the Tricolor decorated the official *
table in the lower Town Hall when the
French Consul, M. Sirot, and the presi-
dent and committee of the Alliance
Fran?aise celebrated France’s national
day with a ball. Madame Sirot assisted
her husband, and the president of the
Alliance Franchise, Madame A. Gay, and
the secretary, Madame Marguerite
Cockerton, helped receive the 300 guests.
Madame Sirot allied a green embroi-
dered stole of Chinese silk with her gown
of white embossed brocade. Madame
Gay’s silver-embroidered gown was of
midnight-blue lace. Madame Cockerton
wore satin-spotted midnight-blue faille.
With Consul for Switzerland M. Paul-
Emile Cattin was his wife, whose gown
was of White silk cloque. Mrs. H. F.
Wright accompanied her husband. Col.
Wright, who is Consul for the Nether-
lands. Mrs. Henry Stebbins, who was
with her husband, the U.S. Consul-
General, wore a full-skirted gown of
deep-royal-blue poult. Mrs, G. Myer’s
gown was of pale-lilac satin embroidered
lavishly with amethyst rhinestones.
Mrs. Roy Shepherd, who came from
France to marry her Australian husband,
wore a black-velvet bodice and bouffant
skirt of black tulle. Mrs. Harold Craig’s
black-velvet gown had silver-embroidered
lace lapels on the bodice. A wide front
panel of white faille highlighted Madame
Andre McDonald’s black-faille gown.
Mrs. Maurice Belz chose red and gold
brocades, Mrs. Dick Noone pale-lime-
green silk net. Mrs. D. Worthington
wore cinnamon-brown tulle embroidered
with black sequins. Diana Learmonth’s
frock was of black faille.
☆ ☆ *
To boost the funds of St. Vincent’s
Hospital Casualty Ward Appeal, Mrs.
L. R. Buxton has organised a hat-parade
to be held in the Collins-street salon of
Thomas Harrison at 3 p.m. on luly 27,
28 and 29. Hats will be modelled by
Mrs. James Buchanan, Mrs. Eric Ross,
Mrs. I. Forster, Madame C. Hollebequ,
Mile. Jacqueline Joneth, Deidre Niall and
Margaret Nicholson. Tickets at 12s. 6d.
each may be obtained from Mrs. L.
Gillam Hunt (XB1769), Mrs. Arnold
Isaacson (MU3862) or from the Salon
(Cent. 8716).
☆ ☆ ☆
Anthony Quayle was guest-speaker at
the English Speaking Union’s monthly
luncheon at the Victoria Palace, and a
“packed house” turned up to hear the
famous Shakspearean actor. With her
small white petal-shaped hat Mrs. Quayle
wore a coat frock of forest-green velvet.
Mrs. Henry Stebbins, wife of the U.S.
Consul-General, chose a teal-blue
ensemble and a felt hat in the same
toning. Barbara Jefford, leading lady
with the company, wore a high-collared
black coat-frock and a fisherman cap
trimmed with small white beads. Other
members of the cast present were Mr. and
Mrs. Patrick Donnell, Mr. and Mrs. Leo
McKern, Rosalind Atkinson, Charmian
Eyre and Zena Walker.
At the Yorick Club’s annual At-Home
at No. 9 Darling-street, the president,
Mr. F. E. Moloney, received the guests
with his daughter Diana, whose frock,
cut on Grecian lines, was of white chiffon,
with the back of the full skirt made of
primrose chiffon to match the swathing
across one shoulder. Capt. John
Moloney was accompanied by his wife,
whose gown was of white French crepe.
Wife of the club’s secretary, Mrs. G. A.
Todner, wore black crepe-romaine.
Mrs. B. Ryland’s gown of ice-blue
faille carried silver embroideries. With
her red-velvet gown Mrs. lan McKillop
wore a beaten-gold Indian sari. Mrs.
Aubrey Gibson’s black velvet dinner-
gown was long-sleeved. Mrs. Hugh
Syme’s was of scarlet chiffon. Mrs. John
O’Driscoll’s deep-green taffeta sheath-
frock had tulle at the hemline. Mrs.
Vernon Jones’s taffetas were gold-shot.
Mrs. Keith Carnegie’s moire-taffeta was
midnight-blue.
Mrs. J. W. Thoman, whose husband is
Public Affairs Officer with the U.S.
Department of Information, is a graduate
of Iowa University and did secretarial
work before meeting her husband. With
three children, however, she finds her
mother role a full-time occupation.
For the Air Force Association’s annual
ball at the Royale, Air Force Associa-
tion badges decorated the pillars and
table-numbers took the form of Air Force
roundels. The R.A.A.F. orchestra sup-
plied the music, and cabaret items were
announced by a fanfare of trumpets by
Air Force buglers. Air-Marshal Sir
George Jones and Lady Jones, assisted
by the secretary of the association, Mr.
Bowen Harley, and Mrs. Harley, received
the official guests. Lady Jones’s bouffant
gown of corn-gold satin was beaded on
the front of the bodice. Mrs. Harley
wore a full-skirted black faille gown.
Air-Marshal Sir Donald Hardman
brought his daughter Sally, who danced
in pastel-pink tulle.
The president of the Air Force
Women’s Association, Mrs. E. C.
Wackett, who was with Air-Vice-
Marshal Wackett, wore a strapless frock
of white chiffon embroidered with green
ivy-leaves. Air-Vice-Marshal A. M.
Charlesworth was with Mrs. Charles-
worth, who wore anthracite-grey tulle
over black taffeta. Mrs. R. Macklin,
wife of the Assistant U.S. Naval
Attache, chose pale-lime-green taffeta
and a matching tulle stole. Mrs, J.
Clarke, the wife of the U.S. Assistant
Military Attache, topped her black
crepe skirt with a tunic of floral
crepe. The wife of. the U.S. Military
Attache, Mrs. John Middleton, wore
self-embodied Duchesse satin. With
Wing-Commander A. Braden, N.Z. Air
Force Attache, was Mrs. Braden in a
pleated gown of white faille. Mrs, Bert
Chadwick’s cinnamon-brown faille frock
was pleated. Ticket-secretary Mrs.
Edward Campbell wore champagne satin
with a matching green-lined stole. Her
sister, Nancy Woodrow, also a ticket-
secretary, chose white broderie Anglaise.
☆ ☆ ☆
Among the 50 guests entertained by
Iris Williams at her buffet-dinner party
was the Rev. F. Covenay, a former Scot-
land Yard superintendent, and now a
Church of England clergyman. He was
accompanied by his wife and the Rev.
L. L. Elliott and Mrs. Elliott. Bowls of
colorful berries and foliage decorated the
reception-rooms, made warm by glowing
fires.
SYDNEY
.. .
Nearly everyone at the opening of the
Winter Exhibition at the Grosvenor
Galleries seemed to have “come on”
from something else. Many had been
present at the preview of the Hans
Andersen film and the luncheon given
by the Consul-General for Denmark,
Mr. Henning Hergel. Mr. and Mrs. Erik
Langker, after seeing the film, had had
lunch with the Chinese painter Madame
Yee-Ping Shen Hsu and had paid a visit
to her exhibition at David Jones’s. All
this rushing made them think the weather
“too warm” despite the bitter westerly
blowing. Mrs. Elsie Dangerfield had
come from her studio, where she had
been renewing her theatre sets for
“The Trojan Women,” which is. shortly
to be performed again in Sydney.
The new High Commissioner for Paki-
stan, Mr. Habibur Rahman opened the
exhibition. His daughter
Shamina wore sans, but younger daughter
Naima came in her Ascham uniform worn
over the white ankle-length trousers,
silver, which is national dress in Paki-
Stan. There seemed to be some mystery
about who bought the charming little
Adrian Feint flower-study, which carried
a little red ticket very early in the piece
Among those discussing the paintings
were Mrs. George Onslow, Mrs. Kenneth
Noad, Mrs. Robinson Brooks, Mrs.
Beatrice McPhillamy, Mrs. A. H.
Chartres, Mr. and Mrs. Don Service, Mrs.
H. A. Showers with daughter Barbara,
Mrs. William Lewis and Mrs. William
Bailey. <
Marie Burns, a recent graduate in arts
from Sydney University, has just been
awarded the Henry Lawson Prize for
Prose which is awarded every year.
Written last year before she' got her
degree, Marie took for the background
of her short story the district around La
Perouse, with a half-caste aboriginal as
her central character. Its name is “Storm
on Hill 60.” Now public-relations-
officer of the Roycd Empire Society,
Marie has made many contributions to
“Honi Soit” and other University pub-
lications, but has not as yet written any-
thing for general publication. Photo by
Max Shepherd.
Crowds flock into the home-making
exhibitions held from time to time at the
Town Hall, and the odd thing is that
there do not seem to be fewer people at
those which charge for admission than
those into which you get “for free.”
The present one, “Home, Food and
Beauty,” has as one of its attractions a
prefabricated house (bought for £1500)
which can be won if the holder of the
lucky ticket can answer a quiz-question.
Cooking exhibitions by chefs from lead-
ing restaurants and are
popular, but no more than the exhibitions
by the “chefs from the Eastern Com-
mand” (no longer Army cooks, thank
you). The mannequin-parades are very
popular, but it does seem that the main
drawcard for the Australian public is the
lure of something to be given away.
☆ ☆ ☆
A Ladies’ Senior Committee was
formed during the week to help raise
funds for the Subnormal Children’s
Welfare Association, with Mrs, Conrad
Horley as president and vice-presidents
Countess Pietrasanta Sauvaigne, Lady
Braddon and Mrs. C. M. Guiney. Plans
for a reading by Mrs. J. W. M. Eaton
and a hat-show arranged by Stella
Fraenkel are already under way. Mr.
Conrad Horley, who is a member of the
Appeals Committee, said that the asso-
ciation aimed to help and encourage the
parents of mentally-handicapped children,
and that those blest with normal children,
could show their gratitude by helping with
this work.
☆ ☆ ☆
Fashion points brought back from a
nine-weeks’ stay in America by Mr. J.
;Shaw, managing-director of a large dress-
manufacturing firm, are: Cotton imitat-
ing wool in appearance and weight
(though not warmth) is the rage in the
U.S. Printed like worsteds sand mostly
in grey, it is used for high-grade suits,
dresses and sun-dresses. Florals are
mostly in black and white. Jewelled
motifs are seen everywhere for day- and
evening-wear, as is black velvet trim-
ming on grey, and rayon is mixed
With cotton to make a silken fabric
in rich dark colors. To be introduced to
the Australian trade are the American
fashions in maternity wear, designed (odd
expression) to “glamorise the pregnancy
period,” and include evening wear,
pedal-pushers, bathing-suits, jewelled
blouses, etc. Another innovation to be
adopted from America is the dresses
for diminutives, i.e., women under sft.
sin., which means, according to Mr.
Shaw, 60 per cent, of Australia women.
☆ ☆ ☆
The University will hold its “open
day” next Saturday, and an interesting
tirfie can be spent there, attractions in-
cluding the various departments, colleges,
special exhibits, talks and films. Visitors
are to be officially welcomed in the Great
Hall at 2.30 by the Chancellor, Sir Charles
Bickerton Blackburn, a display of
academic dress will be on show in the
Senate Room. About 10,000 people
visited the University last year on “open
day,” but it was not at all crowded. As
all Sydney people should know what their
University is like, this a good opportunity
to find out.
* ☆ ☆
Opening night at the Metropolitan
Theatre of “Maid in Egypt” drew a full
house, a heartening sign in these days
when two “little theatres” in Sydney
have had to call for donations in order
to pay the rent. The piece, a musical-
comedy by John McKellar, Gerry Dono-
van and Lance Mulcahy, is commend-
ably lively and witty and should be as
popular as “Metropolitan Merry-go-
round.” Only drawback on the first
night was the over-anxiety of some mem-
bers of the audience to laugh vigorously,
loudly and long at any sally, so that the
point of many of them was lost on all
the others who were not “in the know.”
Ladies of the Korean Auxiliary of
the Royal Australian Regiment were
impressed by the facility with which
Miss Northcott wrote two long letters
to the officers-in-charge of die 2nd
and 3rd Battalions in Korea to
go with the 50 parcels which they
had packed last week for the boys
overseas. Accompanied by Miss Collett,
Miss Northcott was welcomed to the
rooms of the Auxiliary in Scottish House
by the president, Mrs. Joyce Snelling, and
by Brigadier Harlock, who was present
with Mrs. Harlock and represented Lieut.-
General Berryman. The parcel-packing
was organised by Mrs. A. L. MacDonald,
helped by about 50 members of the
auxiliary who kept coming in from time
to time during the day, and who included
Mrs. P. Greville, Mrs. Colin Nash, Mrs.
J, Adams and Mrs. G. Khan, whose son,
Lieutenant Colin Khan, was a member
of the contingent representing Australia
at the Coronation. A guest at the
Auxiliary rooms during the afternoon
was Private Davoren, an ex-p.-0.-w. who
lost one of his legs in Korea and who
came from Yaralla hospital to inspect
the parcels.
☆ ☆ ☆
The exhibition of the Society of Arts
and Crafts opens next Monday at 3 p.m.,
when the speaker will be Mr. E. W.
Burbridge, representative of the British
Council in Australia. Held as usual in
the Art Gallery of the Education Depart-
ment, Loftus-street, the exhibition will
remain open until August 7, but will be
closed on Saturday, August 1, and on
August 3.
■☆☆ ☆ *
Attractive outfits seen around town
this week: Mrs. Kev. Chaldjean’s grey-
and-white-striped bloused jacket worn
with narrow grey skirt, sulphur gloves
and peaked hat; Marisa Martelli’s draped
black-wool dress with its emerald-green
belt to link up to the enormous green
earrings; Mrs. Peter Willis’s grey net
evening-dress with its pale amethyst
sequin scrolls and the half-circlet of fresh
daphne worn at the back of her blonds
hair.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.
In Divorce.
No. 83 of 1953.
TO HENRY HERBERT ISAAC formerly
of No. 23 Derwent Park Road in the
State of Tasmania and later of Armadale
in the State of Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE
that a Petition has been filed in this
Court endorsed with a Notice to you to
appear and answer the charges in the
Petition of DOROTHY ROSE ISAAC of
Derwent Park in Tasmania praying for
dissolution of marriage on the ground
of desertion and in default of your so
appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said charges proved
and pronounce judgment therein your
absence nothwithstanding AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid an appearance must be entered
at the Principal Registry of the Supreme
Court, Macquarie Street, Hobart, in the
State of Tasmania within thirty days of
the publication of this Notice. DATED
this 2nd day of July, 1953. —H. R.
DOBBIE, Principal Registrar.
DAD and DAVE
How an Australian tradition
began
"NTEARLY sixty years ago, in The Bulletin,
“Steele Rudd” (the pen-name of Arthur
Hoey Davis) first introduced to Australian
readers his now-famous characters Dad and
Dave, together with Mother, Joe, Kate and
the rest of the family.
The popularity of the stories, told under
the general title of “On Our Selection,” was
immediate. There was a marvellous breadth
of “bush” color and humor in them; laughter
amidst the struggles and discomforts of a
selector’s life. Sometimes there were tears,
too, but even in their tears “Steele Rudd’s”
characters saw the droll side of the situation ;
or, if they didn’t, the author did.
s - As the years went on “Steele Rudd’s”
characters developed almost a legendary
significance in Australia. At first some bush
people felt that they had been caricatured too
boisterously by “Steele Rudd” ; but as time
went by even they were compelled to chuckle
with the rest of Australia over the sidelights
of a settler’s existence so captivatingly told by
one who had himself lived the life.
“Dad and Dave” now belong almost to
Australian folk-lore. Over the. last half-
century “Steele Rudd’s” original characters
have been burlesqued by others, and in some
cases distorted almost into American hill-billy
types. But no counterfeit presentation has the
same charm, the Same large-as-life authenticity
and sympathetic treatment that belong to the
author’s original.
Commencing in next week’s issue of The
Bulletin “Steele Rudd’s” original Dad, Dave,
Mother and the rest, as he expanded the sketches
for book-publication under the collective title
of “On Our Selection,” again are presented to
Australians—to old Australians, young Aus-
tralians and New Australians alike. Everyone
will find something refreshing, entertaining and
vastly amusing in “Steele Rudd’s” inimitable,
original “Dad and Dave.”
"On Our Selection," in complete-
story instalments, starts in next
week's issue of
7&J%uUetCa
Ninepence a week—all newsagents
Subscription rates: 36/- a year, 18/6 a half
year, 9/6 for three months—all post-free.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“As You Like It”
“As You Like It,” which
Masefield described as a little
picture of the world, was a
pleasant little picture of the
world as played by the Shak-
speare Memorial Theatre people
at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne.
The picture came most to life in
the second act where Barbara
Jefford, as the daughter of the
banished duke disguised as a
young man, wooed Keith
Michell’s Orlando with charming
vigor, while Charmian Eyre as
Celia provided a beautifully
relaxed piece of acting in the
background.
Nor did Leo McKern demean
Touchstone by too much clown-
ing, and the various subsidiary
love affairs of Touchstone,
Audrey, Oliver, Phebe and Celia
aforesaid made the stage as busy
with people unaware of anything
but their own feelings as the
Flinders-street intersection at
peak-time.
A lot of the excitement was
due to Glen Byam Shaw’s
swiftly-flowing methods of pro
Auction, which only paused here
and there to allow the melan-
choly Jaques of Anthony Quayle
to do his philosophising.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Maid in Egypt”
The Metropolitan Theatre,
Sydney, which had a very good
run with its intimate revue,
“Metropolitan Merry - Go -
Round,” a while ago, has come
up with something similar called
“Maid in Egypt.” It is desig-
nated “musical comedy,” and it
is strung together by some
tenuous she-loves-me-she-loves-
me-not business, but it is, in the
main, an uproarious hotchpotch
of songandance, witty topical
sallies, cheerful horseplay and
good uncensored merriment.
Joe McCormick, as a Pharaoh
wearing something like a beach
robe, sunglasses and fez; and
Patricia Martin, with a lovely
shape, a venomous dislike of
men and an acidulated delivery
of “What Have You Done to
Your Face?" are probably the
best things of the show, although
Leonard Thiele, tearing “A
Little Ray of Sunshine” to bits,
is worth the price of a seat.
Shirley Brindley and Barrie
Cookson contribute something to
the heart-interest of the piece,
and sundry other characters,
such as Tsetse and Phiphi, a
couple of dancing girls, Sukka,
a seer, and Sooth, a sayer, were
played by Lola Brooks, Moira
Redmond, John Ewart and
Warren Rigney.
William Orr is the producer of
the show, and Bunny Ewart is
responsible for the dances; the
authorship of book, lyrics and
music is the combined effort of
John McKellar, Gerry Donovan
and Lance Mulcahy. Altogether
a prodigious, original and highly
successful accomplishment.
❖ ❖ *
“His Excellency”
“His Excellency,” a comedy
by Dorothy and Campbell
Christie about a dock-worker
who is appointed Governor of a
colony, is a fairly nondescript
piece which blunders into drama
in Act Three.
Whatever the reason for put-
ting it on, Canberra Repertory
gave it a flattering production
(by Ric Throssell), and the
characters moved easily before
sets which were perhaps a little
flat and characterless. Charles
Frewin as his Excellency did a
clever and sensible thing in
refusing to attempt the accent
called for and making his dialect
“dinkum Australian,” which,
along with the rest of his part,
he did well. Ruth Inall as his
daughter was more than con-
vincing, and Joy Warren as Lady
Kirkman was poised and suave.
Roy Crook made the most of
the G.0.C., lan Maclean perhaps
too much of the vice-admiral.
Maclean and Max Praed
(Dobrieda) were faced with the
same peculiarly vexing combina-
tion of a small hall and a noisily
flamboyant character to portray.
Neil Truscott, as the Lieutenant-
Governor, and John Carver, as
the Prime Minister, appeared to
have no problems at all—they
both slid through their parts —
one smoothly, the other oilily,
as was proper.
Castro and Hindemith
Sydney subscribers to the
A.B.C.’s subscription concerts
have had to suffer a few ear-
bashings this season, but noth-
ing quite so severe as that
inflicted on them in the latest
series by visiting conductor Juan
Jose Castro, when on the same
programme he included his own
Piano Concerto and Hinde-
mith’s “Matthias the Painter.”
In “Matthias” you have
tediousness, mediocrity of theme
and general thinnness; also a
killing repetitiveness and debility
—it is music that dies of con-
sumption with the fatal hectic
spots showing out startlingly in
“The Temptation” phase.
Castro’s own Piano Concerto
was cacophony almost from
start to finish; not so much
music as a series of badly-inte-
grated sounds. Lacking in
thematic beauty, its rhythmic
and harmonic qualities poor, it
has left of the four ingredients
of music only color, and even
that is muddy. You might call
it musical surrealism almost at
its extreme.
A few nights later Mr. Castro
conducted Bartok’s 2nd Piano
Concerto. This is less of a con-
certo than a study in percussive
inanity.
In each concerto Hephzibah
Menuhin was the soloist —an
awful waste of splendid talent.
There were glimpses of whole-
some sanity elsewhere—in the
first concert by a transcribed
concerto by Emmanuel Bach
and the “Parsifal” Prelude, and
in the other by Mozart’s G
Minor Symphony.
+♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Pygmalion”
It was proper that Saturday’s
performance of “Pygmalion,”
which began the Sydney Uni-
versity International Drama
Festival of 1953, should be most
noticeable for the effort, under
the coaching of Professor
Mitchell, to get Shaw’s variety
of phonetic accents right. The
sincerity of this approach made
up for most of the St. Andrew’s
College players being of neces-
sity too young: Allan Kendall
as Henry Higgins, David Donald
as Colonel Pickering and Derek
Cassidy as Alfred Doolittle
lacked the depth of tone that
puts the hallmark of experience
upon Shaw’s paradoxes.
The women dissembled better:
Gwenneth Millar as Mrs.
Pearce, Patricia Conolly as Mrs.
Higgins and Olive Wood as Mrs.
Eynsford-Hill—especially Miss
Wood, in those wonderful last
moments of the third act, when
she makes excuses for her
daughter, delightfully played by
Val Kelly.
Beverley Macdonald gave a
pure and exact version of Eliza
Doolittle ; though to have seen
Margaret Rawlings in this part,
all flagrant beauty and over-
whelming charm, is to realise
that maybe Shaw here intended
more than precision of acting.
Indeed, some such device of act-
ing is needed to carry off the
last two acts, which seem so dull
against the brilliance of the At
Home in the third, and the lame
conclusion that worried Shaw
himself sufficiently to make him
add a critical explanation, thus
establishing the play’s imperfec-
tion.
Allan Kendall’s quiet and
clear production enabled us to
see these things ; and the Wallace
Theatre, with its curved banks
of desks behind which the audi-
ence sat in theatre-seats and
smoked during the performance,
combined an atmosphere of
classical demonstration with one
of easy English theatregoing.
❖ *t* ❖
“The Truth About Blayds”
A. A. Milne’s “The Truth
About Blayds” has to do with
a family living in the reflected
glory of their grandfather, Oliver
Blayds, a venerated poet of 90
years. Just before he dies the
old chap confesses that all his
poetry was lifted many years
earlier from a young friend who
died of consumption; the only
stuff he ever wrote himself was
panned by the critics as his one
unsuccessful volume. The family
toss the secret about between
them like a hot egg before decid-
ing what to do with the reputa-
tion and wealth they have
inherited, but which really
belongs to the heirs, if any, of
the long-dead young poet.
The Kuringai Theatre Guild
are playing the piece at Killara
Hall tonight and at Chatswood
Town Hall tomorrow night.
John Andrew, Norma Barker,
Grace Crawford, Brian Fisher,
Jocelyn H a r b u 11, Jean
Wyndham, Robert Turner and
Les Edmonds combine to give a
good working, if not very spon-
taneous, version of the comedy.
Artbursts
There is a good deal of
meticulous painting in the
Winter Exhibition at the Gros-
venor Galleries, Sydney, even if
not much of it is lit by the final
touch of inspiration. Still, if
meticulous painting isn’t an end
in itself, it is at least a first
essential —almost every week, in
one Sydney G'allery or another,
can be seen the futility of trying
to deny it.
And when, of course, you have
the inspiration perfectly ex-
pressed, as in G. K. Town-
shend’s “Old Hostelry”—a most
scrupulous rendering of poetry
in stone and trees and light and
shade —or as in Tom Roberts’s
“Pelargoniums” —a flowerpiece
of delicate life and beautiful
painting —you have a complete
work of art.
You have it again in the sun-
light and color of Norman
Lindsay’s “Grapes”; in the
movement and space of the sea
in Lance Solomon’s “Grey
Day” and in the softness and
hazy light of his “Blackberry
Pickers” ; and to a lesser extent
in Dargie’s quiet but charming
little “Lunch Hour,” and Harley
Griffiths’s slight but poetic land-
scape.
A Gruner landscape that is
Almost too facile to be true, two
rather smoky bush scenes by
Walter Withers, and paintings
by Leonard Long, Robert
Johnson, Erik Langker, Nora
Heysen, Douglas Pratt, Kenneth
Macqueen, Garrett Kingsley,
Jean Derrin and Albert Ridge
make a substantial setting for
the highlights of the exhibition.
❖ ❖ ❖
Other Sydney exhibitions
include paintings by John
Ogburn at the Macquarie Gal-
leries, and Raymond Moult-
Spiers at David Jones’s Gal-
leries. Ogbum’s inspirations
appear to be mainly biblical, but
his expression is coarse in color
and painting ; Moult-Spiers deals
in thinly brilliant colors and thin
technique to render gaudily
fanciful scenes which would be
more at home behind a ballet
than anywhere else.
Talkies
“I Love Melvin” (Sydney St.
James): A snappy musical done
in the best M.-G.-M. manner,
well-dressed and. -mounted, with
a fair quota of listenable tunes,
cleverly-worded, and extra-good
dancing sequences—a football
ballet in which a girl is used as
the football is original and
brilliantly executed. Donald
O’Connor and Debbie Reynolds
do the songandance with easy
aplomb and much gaiety.
* A
“The Final Test” (Sydney
Lyceum); This thoroughly
delightful English film about an
ageing professional cricketer
playing the last innings of his
career in a vital Test match
against Australia has the benefit
of a fine script by Terence Rat-
tigan, a beautiful job of work by
Robert Morley as a snooty poet-
playwright who is overawed at
meeting his cricket-idol, a
quietly sincere portrayal of the
pro. by Jack Warner, and
appearances by Hutton,
Compton, Bedser and co.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Hitch-hiker” (Sydney
Palace); Any motorist who
after seeing this film picks up a
male hitch-hiker doesn’t know a
good warning when he sees it.
Tense and gripping throughout,
it tells of two men who, going
on a fishing holiday to Mexico,
pick up while still in the U.S. a
hitch-hiker who turns out to be
an escaping murderer. William
Talman as the hitch-hiker and
Edmond O’Brien and Frank
Lovejoy as his victims are well
cast; Ida Lupine’s direction is
outstanding.
❖ ❖ ♦:*
“Never Wave at a Wac”
(Sydney Century): Fair enough
comedy about a socialite who is
sidetracked by her astute
Senator-father into joining the
Wacs, wherein her complete
uselessness for all but decorative
purposes provides the chief
laughs. Rosalind Russell turns
on the charm like a tap, but Paul
Douglas obviously finds the
fictional meat insufficiently red
for his taste.


THE PERFECT FLUKE
4 4 IOU’RE sitting in the
\ / colonel’s chair.”
y There was a quality
t of sadness in the
remark, as though the speaker
intended it not so much as a
rebuke as an expression of
regret that the colonel himself
was not occupying his chair. I
was sitting in the clubhouse at
Longcarry Links. I had just
finished a round with Charlie
Lachlan, who was a member
there. Charlie had slipped into
the secretary’s room to make a
phone-call, telling me to make
myself at home.
Apparently I had made myself
a trifle too much at home. I
rose from the chair with an
apology, wondering what sort of
club this was where colonels
could apparently appropriate
chairs to themselves, whether
they were there to occupy them
or not. The sad-faced individual
who had spoken motioned me
to sit down again.
“It doesn’t matter,” he
assured me. “He won’t be com-
ing today. He comes before the
round starts, not after it’s
finished. No good his coming
then.”
I resumed my seat and the
gloomy one sat down on the
other side of the small table.
Something seemed to be expected
of me, so I said “The colonel
—is he your president?”
“President? Good Heavens,
no. Haven’t you heard of
Colonel Bogey?”
“I’ve heard the bands play it.”
“Not the march. The man.
Colonel Bogey. Why, you might
call him the patron saint of
golf.”
I thought I understood then.
Of course I knew all about
Colonel Bogey, the mythical old
gentleman who was the presiding
deity of the game until that stiff-
necked old ramrod General Par
superseded him. Obviously it
was a whim of the Longcarry
Club to set aside a chair for the
old boy.
“Of course I’ve heard of him,”
I said. “So this is his chair?
Does he drop in very often?”
“I’ve only seen him once.”
“Just once, eh?”
“Yes, but I saw him as plain
as I’m seeing you.”
'THAT was when I decided the
old boy was crazy. A
change of subject seemed the best
idea, and, looking above the old
chap’s head in an attempt to
dodge his eye, my own happened
to light on the club’s Hole-in-
One Board. It seemed to offer
the opening I wanted, but before
I had time to comment upon it
he opened up the subject himself.
“You’re looking at our Hole-
in-One Board?”
“Yes.”
“How many names on it?
There ought to be six.”
“Five.”
“Six.”
“Er, I make it five.”
“Read ’em out. Names and
records.”
He stared at me intently as I
read the board, nodding as if in
confirmation after each name,
and adding a little comment.
“S. Keough. 3rd Hole. 165
yards. April 22, 1925.”
“Old Stan, eh. *Remember it
well. Ball hit a player just walk-
ing off the green and trickled
into the hole.”
“J. Macdonnell. 6th Hole.
130 yards. June 15, 1928.”
“That’s right. It was Mac’s
first game. First time he’d ever
been on a golf-course. Took out
his driver instead of a number-
seven and gave it a mighty
swipe. Nearly missed it alto-
gether, but you know how a
topped ball runs sometimes.
This one just about dug a trench
between the tee and the hole.
But that’s where they found it.
Right in the hole.”
“C. Shaw. Bth Hole. 225
yards. January 30, 1931.”
“Didn’t see that one, but I
believe it was a good shot. Shaw
hits a straight ball at times. Of
course, it was a dry summer
and he got plenty of run.”
“L. Simpson. 12th Hole.
170 yards. August 20, 1933.”
“I missed seeing that one, too.
He sliced, they tell me, and it
hit a tree, ricocheted back on
to the line, ran through to the
green and into the hole.”
“D. Adams'. 16th Hole.
115 yards. June 13, 1936.”
“I saw that one. The perfect
fluke. A beautiful number-
seven shot high in the air and
dead on the pin. All she had to
do was turn over a few times and
she was in the pot. We
measured it up and the dint she
made in the green was only four
inches from the hole. And there
was Adams trying to look as if
he’d expected her to go in on
the full.”
He stared at me a moment,
then said,
“Well, go on. What’s the
next name?”
“That’s the lot,” I said. “Only
five.”
“Ought to be six.”
I sat and waited.
“You’re sure you can’t see
any other name?” he asked.
“Certain. Why? Has any
one else holed out in one?”
He looked around the club-
house. There was no one else
down our end. The old boy
leaned across the table and said
impressively,
‘‘My name ought to be there.
The colonel promised it would
be.”
“Did you hole out in one?”
“Well, I . . . Shall I tell you
about it?”
“Go ahead.”
\
6 6XJE was sitting just where
you’re sitting now. There
was no one else in the room,
just like now. So I was the
only one who saw him. And as
soon as I saw him I knew some-
how that I was meant to be the
only one to see him. See what
I mean? Just like in the fairy-
tales, where the fairy godmother
comes along to give the hero
three wishes. Well, I knew—
don’t ask me h6w I knew it, but
I did—that Colonel Bogey was
going to grant me anything I
wished. Anything connected
with golf, that is. Now, I
suppose that sounds absurd to
you?”
“Not at all. If I met
Colonel Bogey, I’d certainly
expect him to grant me a wish.”
“Would you? Well, so did I.
The colonel didn’t speak, mind
you. Just sat there looking at
me. And 1 sat here trying to
decide what to wish for. My
first thought was to win the
Australian Open, but I ruled that
out.”
“Why?”
“Too hard to live up to. Nice
fool I’d 100k —winning the
Open one day and slipping back
to nineties the next. So I
stopped drinking of the Open
and switched to the club
championship. And the old
colonel just sat there watching
me and saying nothing.”
“So you settled for the club
championship?”
“No. The same objection
cropped up there. Everyone
here knows me. And another
thing—l remembered that in the
fairy stories the one that gets
the wishes usually overreaches
himself by being too greedy. I
didn’t want to make that
mistake. I noticed the colonel
looking at the Hole-in-One
Board —and I knew what he was
driving at.
“So I decided on a hole-in-
one. And after all, what better
thing could I wish? Doesn’t
every golfer dream of holing-
out in one? And how few of
’em manage it! Plenty of
fellows who’ve won the Open
have never holed-out in one.
The more I thought of it the
more I liked the idea.
66 \I7ELL, you can guess I
** started off the round that
day feeling rather elated. Must
have looked it, too, ’cos I
remember old Jimmy Jones say-
ing to me —he. Jack Roberts and
Smiler Smith were matched with
me in a four-ball —and he said
as we stood waiting on the first
tee ‘You look as if you expect
to bring home the prize today,
George.’
“ T don’t know about the
prize, Jimmy,’ I said, ‘but I
reckon I’m due for a prize.’
That made ’em all laugh, ’cos
they knew I’d never collected a
prize in all the years I’d been
playing.”
I glanced again towards the
secretary’s door, in search of
Charlie. The old boy hastened
to assure me that he wouldn’t
keep me long. “I won’t bore
you with a stroke-by-stroke
description of the game,” he
said. “There are only five holes
where it is humanly possible to
hole in one. Well, I’ll concen-
trate on those.
“The third hole was the first
chance for the colonel to show
whether he was in earnest or not.
You remember it? A hundred-
and-sixty-five yards. Stan
Keough’s hole.”
Yes, I remembered it.
“Well, I’d taken seven on the
second, so I was last to hit off.
Jones had made the green and
the other two were both a little
short. I took out my number
five and shaped up. ‘Bit far
for you with a five, isn’t it,
George?’ Jimmy Jones said. ‘lf
I can’t do it with a five I can’t
do it at all,’ I told him. And I
whacked that ball.
“Honest, it was a beautiful hit.
She went high in the air in a
graceful curve. ‘lt’ll go through
the green,’ said Jonesy as we
watched. But it didn’t. At the
top of its flight, somewhere over
the green, it suddenly seemed to
drop vertically straight down on
the pin. And that’s where it hit.
Bang on top of the pin. Bounced
away to glory, of course, but if
the pin hadn’t been there it
would have gone clean into the
cup.”
“Well, that was bad luck,” I
said, rising to my feet. “So the
stick robbed you of a oner and
also from finding out whether
the colonel was really dinkum.
Thanks for the yarn. It’s been
really interesting.”
“I haven’t finished,” said
George coldly. “There were
four more possibles, you know.”
T SAT down again.
“When we came to the
sixth,” George went on, “I
didn’t know what to think.
Would I get another chance?
Or had the colonel meant me to
get my one at the third or no-
where? . . . Shall I skip the
other blokes’ shots and just tell
you mine?”
“Yes.”
“Right. Got the picture clear?
Sixth hole —Macdonnell’s hole.
A hundred-and-thirty yards, I
used my number-seven. Wasn’t
much of a hit. Didn’t lift it
properly, so it fell short, but
had a bit of run on it; and that
carried it on to the green. It
ran slowly towards the pin and
my heart pounded again. We
all watched it creep nearer and
nearer, then saw it drop out of
sight.
“ ‘You’ve done it this time,
George,’ said Smiler, and they
all shook hands with me as we
started walking towards the
green. But the congratulations
were a bit premature. The ball
wasn’t in the hole. Not in the
right one, anyway. The green
was soggy, and some criminal
had dug his heel into it a few
inches short of the hole. And
that’s where my ball was. I
almost cried, but at any rate it
showed the colonel was doing
his best. It wasn’t his fault that
heel-mark was there.
“My next chance came at
Shaw’s hole —the eighth, which
was the one I was rather
(i Continued on page 23)
TO A FRIEND IN FRANCE... NANCY KEESING
1941
At Pittwater, sitting on the jetty amid a
wind-tangled fishing-line
We lost our tempers. You said: “I will
not go home
Or leave this place until every loop is un-
looped and every ravel is unravelled.”
Low cloud blowing past, we became
foreigners to the sun; and yellow foam.
Whipped by a sudden gust from sluggish
backwater, spat in our faces.
I became cold: as cold and stiff as your
determination*
I said; “A sixpenny line! I’ll buy an-
other, let’s go to the fireside/’
But that line tied you then. “Tell my
mother I’ve stayed,”
You said, “she’ll dry your clothes and
light a fire.”
Then, I felt alien in your house. , Now,
I know you were afraid;
That, dressed in your brother’s football-
sweater and pants, in the anger of that
afternoon,
You had a prescience of the parting. I
had no need of obstinacy.
Sydney was mine, perhaps for ever; your
time here almost ended . . . soon . . .
soon ... \
ILLUSTRATED NEWS ITEM
Your face is scarcely changed, they have
rubbed off the freckles
In the portrait alone, I think; for the
hard sun etched them in
And you were truly flesh of Australia nor
ever can efface
Those branding-marks your godfather bit
on your skin.
Stated here in print you have all you said
you wished:
Fame, and a household where five lan-
guages are spoken
And a witty husband. But your face is
scarcely altered
And longing’s old lines rest on it un-
broken.
Nothing has changed. Always the water,
always the water.
Do not try to assuage bitterness by saying:
“It will have changed.’’
Your grandfather’s paddocks are yet un-
fenced and as yellow.
It is only the riders of his horses who
are disarranged.
Brown little girls jumping their horses at
hurdles
Are not . . . whoever they are, they are
too young
To plait their lives like—yes, Dick still
plaits whips—
And they turn no worse than furtive
curse-words on the tongue.
Nobody here speaks Spanish, Dutch, Ger-
man, Italian.
On a twanging green-stick crutch our
French limps, twists.
I would send you token sound as tight as
a handclasp
But wax and aether loosen syllabic fists.
Well, I may come or go myself. A supple
Ambition of years past grows to a cracked
old skin,
Scorched eyes become reptilian with hot
years
And squeeze forth meaningless slimy
saurian tears.
Shall I take my eyes to the cold?
Once we were friends. Let honesty take
over
Blow wind of Sydney out of a sullen sky
Across the sodden parks, tear their white
manes
From the harbor horses—weave me a
halter I
Have need of a rope for hanging, or a
line for clutching.
It may as well be a rope of horsehair or of
water.
Every dweller in Sydney dies by water
One way or another.
She lives in a city of bridges
Where the Seine flows tame and drowning
is always deliberate.
Always the water, always the
wa t er .
Here, to drown by deliberation (she would
recall)
One takes a tram to the very last land
of all.
One does not stand wondering (what is
the French for it?) “if?”
One carefully, awkwardly scrambles the
white fence—stands on the cliff
And, looking down upon lace, such deli-
cate lace,
So soft, so dainty on the rock altar; so
appropriately in place,
One succumbs to compulsion—how far?
How soft? The rest
A step, a flight, sprawled sacrifice. That’s
best,
Best, but *be kind old Gap s not Sydney,
This city
Strangles more slowly. Masks itself m a
P lty , ~ , ... ~ ~
Of sunlight. Hard light. Hot light. Light
To | lar « in back of e y es and bright, bright,
... ,
Illuminate every wrinkle on a soul.
Each toughening membrane on thought,
each pimple on the whole
Physiognomy of the mind. Friend, you
_ were wise
To travel from lts merciless scrutinies.
Here’s something! Could it happen in
Paris? ’While the spool
Of sixpenny line ran out for the monster
i n the pool
Of the mind’s sad harborage, and the hsh
i ust biting t
The phone rang. Here s what was said,
fair hooked in the writing:
What s wrong? journey? Don tbe
a bloody fool!”
Do husbands in five languages speak so.
Or lovers in ten? That I would like to
know.
And tell me, are love, loss or misery
Made more or less by large vocabulary
I was so cold at Pittwater, I could not
endure snow.
Here, there is always the water,
always the water.


m
T3V
\
&
m
tR *
\oV ee
e'Tf'V
\OO
UAJ U 7
im&
□
□
- *\
Ijr^s^
K\
S V e "' p '!L,
55^*
si ,
"^ToORf* 6
m
20
■
«i
Yes! GMH is a big business—and
it will be £11,000,000 bigger this year!
Any business that produces a motor vehicle
must be a big business. It must be big in two
senses; first, big in organisation so as to provide
all the resources necessary to manufacture such
a complicated product; and it must be big in
outlook, too, so that it can plan for the future
as well as for the present.
It must be properly staffed ... at GMH
there are scores of departments, employing more
than 10,700 men and women in seven plants.
It must have a foundry, machine shops, press
shops, body works, assembly lines ... at GMH
these total more than 81 acres of factory
area. It must have well-established lines of
supply for many goods and services which are
essential to automobile production ... no less
than 3,000 Australian firms supply GMH. It
must ensure a ready availability of parts and
accessories . . . GMH have a special division
known as NA?CO to provide it; and, finally,
it must have a friendly, co-operative dealer
organisation to bring its products to the public
. . . GMH service is available in every habit-
able part of Australia.
Since the last war, over 80% of GMH profits
have been re-invested in Australia. In early
1952, a further £11,000,000 expansion pro-
gramme was started and is now nearing com-
pletion. This plant expansion will result in
increased plant efficiency, will benefit the pro-
duction of all GMH products, and will raise
the output of Holden Sedans and Utilities to
200 a day.
To grow as Australia grows has always been
the policy of General Motors-Holden’s Ltd.,
and it is this policy that truly makes GMH a
link in the chain of Australia’s progress.
GENERAL
BRISBANE •
MOTOR S-HOLDE N’S LIMITED
, , . a partner in Australia’s future
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
rone


"THE LETTERS
OF RACHEL HENNING"
Over 9500 copies of this fascinating, factual and
intimate story of Australians a hundred years
ago have now been sold. Its historical and
entertainment value has been applauded by
critics in Australia and abroad. Rachel Henning
without doubt has become an enduring character
in Australian literature. The Norman Lindsay
illustrations in the book are superb.
7s. 6d., post-free
Copies of “The Letters of Rachel Henning” are
again available from “The Bulletin” offices in
Melbourne, Brisbane or Perth, or from The
Book Department, “The Bulletin,” Box 2521,
G.P.0., Sydney.
WHERE IT PINCHED
By H.A. LINDSAY
PETER McLEAY noticed
that his sister was unable
to hide an air of expect-
ancy ; she also seemed to
be sparring for time. She in-
stalled him in the most comfort-
able of the armchairs and
waited until he had lit a cigarette.
“I’m sure it isn’t past mend-
ing,” she said, with a forced
cheerfulness, after he had
assured her that he had made up
his mind to separate from his
wife. “Let’s talk it over. When
you were little you used to bring
me all your troubles after
Mother died. Just what is wrong
between you and Agnes?”
“You can’t explain these
things to a third party,” he said.
“Even you would never under-
stand, Ruth.” As he spoke head-
lights made the window-blinds
luminous for a moment, the
gravel of the driveway crunched
under tyres, there was a sound
of voices and car-doors being
slammed. Ruth opened the door
to the visitors.
I should have t expected this,
thought Peter, as four people
entered the room wearing smiles
intended to be friendly and
reassuring. He stood up to
greet Betty and Joan, his wife’s
two sisters, the Rev. Samuel
Ingram, her brother, and Dr.
Allen Baldwin, her cousin. The
doctor spoke first, using a blend
of his bedside-manner tone and
the one which he used at his
club.
“Looks as if we’re ganging-up
on you, Peter, but it’s not that,
really. We’ve just come along
for a quiet talk. Of course, if
you don’t want to listen”
He glanced at the door.
Putting me on the spot, Peter
decided. If I walk out on them
they’ll be able to say I refused
to discuss it. Then everyone
would take it as an admission of
it being all my fault. He re-
turned to his armchair.
It was mean of Ruth to spring
this surprise on him, but no
doubt she meant well. He
waited while the others seated
themselves in a half-circle about
him, giving him the feeling of
being cornered.
6 very concerned
’ * about this,” said the doc-
tor. “Ruth gave us a bit of a
shock with her phone-message.
After all, we’re a family which
—er —doesn’t go in for divorces
or separations.”
When Peter refused to be
drawn the minister broke the
silence. “In my calling I often
have troubles of this kind
brought to me. They can
usually be ironed-out with a
little give and take on both sides.
If you could tell us what you
think is wrong”
“Why don’t you ask Agnes
what’s wrong?” Peter put in.
The minister realised that this
would be a difficult case. Past
experience had taught him not
to expect anything helpful from
a wife in a domestic quarrel
when there was no single, funda-
mental cause, such as infidelity,
on either side.
He had already seen Agnes;
he had spent over two hours
with her that afternoon, but at
first he could get little from her
save “Oh, he gets on my nerves! ”
and “Why can’t he be like other
people?” Pressed for details,
she had at length broken into a
tirade of complaints.
“He simply won’t share any
of my interests. I have to beg
him to make a four at bridge,
and then he won’t put his mind
on the game. Says he’s too tired
to exercise his brain over a pack
of cards. He’s never too tired,
though, to go into the sitting-
room with a few of his old men-
friends and stay there till all
hours making the place stink of
cigars.”
In a tone of contempt she had
added “They live in the past.'
I’ve heard it from the next room.
One will say; ‘Remember the
time.... ’ and then you hear
mumble, mumble, mumble.
After that they all go ‘Haw,
haw, haw! ’ as if some stupid old
yarn was the funniest thing on
earth.” She had ended with a
bitter “Of course, I’m left out
of it all.”
When told that this didn’t
sound serious enough to break
up a home and cause the separa-
tion of a couple who had been
married for nearly twenty-five
years it had brought the' bitter
retort “You don’t know what it’s
like to live with him. When I
object to anything he does all I
get from him is ‘Leave me alone.’
It’s like a parrot saying the one
thing all day long.”
His visit to his sister had
achieved nothing, the minister
thought sadly, save to make him
wonder why on earth she wasn’t
content to have her own interests
in life and let her husband have
his.
ttF gave his brother-in-law an
encouraging smile.
“We really want to hear your
ride of it, Peter.”
“You wouldn’t understand,”
was the reply.
“I’m sure we would. What I
heard seems too absurd for be-
lief. I was told the final quarrel
was nothing more than an argu-
ment about a fruit-tree. I just
can’t believe it, Peter. There
must be something else.”
It was correct enough, thought
Peter. He had said to his wife:
“Funny how the loquat-tree has
no fruit on it this year.” She
had flared up at once.
“Nothing I planted is ever
any good in your eyes!” She
hadn’t let it rest there, of course ;
she never didt For the remainder
of the afternoon she had harped
on it.
Most of these final breaks did
come from what an outsider
would regard as trifling things.
Wasn’t it Bret Harte who
described how two lifelong
partners had broken with each
other; a quarrel healed only
when, on his death-bed, one of
them admitted that there had
heen too much baking-powder
in the loaf which he had baked
years previously?
It would seem just as absurd
now if he gave his version of
the loquat-tree quarrel. Only
the person on whose back it had
been placed could ever realise
the galling) intolerable weight of
the last straw Peter looked
at the Rev. Ingram.
“You wouldn’t understand,”
he repeated.
“Then you won’t tell us your
grievance?” Betty said sharply.
“You’ll desert your wife and go
off without any explanation to
live somewhere in the bush, leav-
ing Agnes with the whole burden
of running the home?”
Peter had made up his mind
not to argue, no matter what
they said, but this stung him into
retorting; “Ypu share my wife’s
gift for unjust accusations.
There’ll be no burden. The
house is freehold and in her
name. My life-insurance policies
have all matured and the money
has been paid to her. As for
the girls—well, for years I’ve
been the old goat who found
the money to keep them in the
social swim. Now they can go
to work for a living.”
“Haven’t you a heart?” Joan
demanded indignantly. “Does
wrecking a home mean nothing
to you?” Peter gave her a
caustic smile.
“Ask Agnes how many times
she’s told me to go off into the
bush and live on my own.” His
wife’s sisters seemed to swell
like angry cats.
“You’ll take advantage of
something said hastily”
“How like a man to remem-
ber it and use it against her!”
O UTH decided it was time for
her to say a few words. She
had brought them together in
the hope that it would lead to a
reconciliation, but this sort of
thing would get them nowhere.
“You know how I began my
career,” he replied. “I went to
a mine and brought it to the
producing stage. It was a tough
job—but nowhere as hard as
I’ve found it to live with Agnes
these last ten years. Well, my
company has now bought
another derelict mine. I’ve
volunteered to put it on its feet
—and I’ll be happy to go on
doing similar jobs for the rest
of my days.”
“You won’t come back to
live with Agnes again?”
“No. There’ll be a legal
separation,”
Betty broke the silence which
followed. “So you admit it all
boils down to your selfish desire
to shirk your responsibilities?”
Peter did not reply, but his
sister hastened to defend him.
“My brother didn’t say that! ”
‘•‘You would take his part,”
Betty sneered. “I can see it all
now. He’s been carrying tales
to you for years. You’ve en-
couraged him to think he’s a
poor, ill-used creature”
“He’s never said a word about
differences with his wife!” Ruth
retorted, a dark flush dyeing her
sallow face. “Until he rang me
last night I didn’t dream there’d
be a separation. It gave me an
awful shock. There seemed
nothing I could do except get
you here to talk to him. Now
I wish I hadn’t interfered.”
She gave her brother a glance
of sympathy ; Betty and Agnes
were very alike, and she could
now see what sort of a home-
life he must have had.
“Just a moment,” said Dr.
Baldwin, his voice holding a
ring of authority. “Kindly stick
to facts, Betty. That goes for
you, too, Joan. Before we go
any farther I want a word in
private with Peter.”
“Why can’t we hear it?” Joan
demanded.
“A medical man usually talks
to a patient without a third party
present,” he reminded her.
Peter followed him to the
kitchen, where they sat facing
each other.
T TNDER the clear light of the
fluorescent tube the taut,
strained expression on the min-
ing-engineer’s face was very
plain.
“Had a medical check-up
lately?” the doctor inquired.
“Yes. The company’s medico
runs the rule over everyone on
the staff once a year. He sent
me to Bertram Wyatt.”
Dr. Baldwin leaned forward,
a frown of interest on his plump
face. “Yes?” he prompted.
“Wyatt told me I’m in a bad
way. He said I’d go over the
edge if I didn’t get rid of the
things that’re wearing me down.”
“H’m,” grunted Baldwin.
“Would easing-up on your work
help?” Peter laughed.
“Work?” he scoffed. “I can
do my work standing on my
head, as the saying goes.”
His self-control gave way at
last. “Not being able to rest is
the trouble,” he said savagely.
“There’s no place in the home
where I can settle down with a
book. Agnes will not leave me
alone. I have to listen to every
trifling thing that’s happened
during the day. At least twice
a week I have to play bridge.
Ignoring the two
women, she
looked at the doc-
tor, then at the
minister.
“Please! We
mustn’t get per-
sonal. You said
you hadn’t come
here to gang-up
on my brother,
but you’re doing
it.” She put her
hand on Peter’s
arm. “Tell us
what you thought
of doing,” she
suggested.
The girls either have friends in
and dance with the damned wire*
less blaring or they go out and
then Agnes wakes me up to tell
me they’re not home yet”-
He broke off to light a cigarette,
his fingers twitching.
“Why not join a club, old
chap?” Baldwin suggested.
“They cater for this very thing.”
“Ever heard Agnes on the
subject of clubs?” He mimicked
his wife’s way of speaking; “I
don't see why a man should
want anything his wife can’t
share.”
“I see. Er —how are things
financially?”
“Nothing to worry over there,
Agnes collected five thousand
from my insurance policies.”
“Money is worth only about
a third of what it was when you
took out those policies, Peter.”
“Don’t I know it,” he said
ruefully. In a brighter tone he
added: “The bonus shares the
company gave me have done a
lot towards making ’’"it up,
though. I’ve transferred them to
Agnes.”
“What makes you think you
can shake off the worries if you
go away?”
“Because I’ve tried it. A few
months ago I was sent to look
into the troubles on our Wynar-
pen lease. I found plenty,
believe me, but I enjoyed every
minute of my stay there. You
could relax when the day’s work
was done. I caught up a bit on
my reading. I had a few enjoy-
able yarns with the old hands,
What I liked best of all was just
lying on my bunk and thinking,
without anyone wanting me to
do something.”
Dr. Baldwin was aware of a
sudden surge of sympathy.
Obviously, Peter was near the
edge, as the specialist had said.
“I came along tonight at Ruth's
invitation, to see if we could
straighten out this business,” he
said slowly, “but I guess it’s
hopeless. Let’s go back and
face the others.”
A HUSH fell on the people in
the sitting-room as they
appeared at the door, and the
minister rose to his feet.
“I would also like a word in
private, Peter,” he said.
The engineer went back to the
kitchen with him.
“Can’t you just ‘take it’ when
my sister finds fault with you?”
Ingram pleaded. “People often
say things without really mean-
ing them, you know,”
“You don’t understand,” said
Peter.
“We all have something to
bear in life,” the minister said
gently. “I meet examples of it
nearly every day. I’m not with-
out a few crosses myself, though
they’re not matrimonial ones,
thank heaven.”
“You don’t understand,” Peter
said again.
“Excuse me for mentioning it,
but you’ve given an example of
one of the very things which
Agnes finds so irritating. You’ve
said ‘You don’t understand’
several times. In your home you
keep repeating ‘Leave me alone’
or T can’t hear you.’ If you
varied what you said, it wouldn’t
be so annoying. And why don’t
you get a hearing-aid?”
“I don’t need one of the
blasted things!” Peter flared.
“I have no trouble in hearing
what they say at the office.
Agnes will mumble or speak
with her head turned away.” In
a calmer tone he added: “I
suppose it is annoying to hear
me repeating the same words,
but why should I always be the
one who has to alter? Why
should I always ‘take it’? One
trouble would’ve ended at once
if Agnes had stopped talking to
me with her back turned.”
The minister sighed ; he was
also quite familiar with his
sister’s incurable habit of speak-
ing with her head turned away.
“Can’t you try to think of
your blessings?” he said per-
suasively. “I don’t say it because
she’s my sister, but most men
would regard you as fortunate
in your wife. She has retained
her good looks. It should be
unnecessary to point out that


Export
Opportunity
are in
the
AIR!
l£v
f There are always fresh markets
for fresh merchandise. Enterprising exporters
are quick to realise that, by QANTAS inter-
national air cargo system to 21 overseas
countries, merchandise moves faster . . .
arrives fresh!
Transit time to destination is cut from weeks
to days. You save on packing and handling
costs —and QANTAS provides comprehensive
insurance cover at surprisingly low rates.
Substantial rebates for bulk consignments
and concession rates on a wide variety of
commodities.
Specialised advice is available from any
QANTAS office or Air Cargo agent.
fdfdfdf
• England
• Germany
• Italy
• Egypt
• Lebanon
• Pakistan
• India
• Ceylon
• Malaya /
• Indonesia
• Borneo
• Hong Kong
• Philippines
• Japan
• Mauritius
• South Africa
• New Guinea
• Fiji
• New Hebrides
• New Caledonia
• Norfolk Is.
Australia's
Overseas
Airline
mum
AIR CA
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED (Inc. in Q'land), in assoc, with 8.0A.C. and TEAL
32 YEARS FLYING EXPERIENCE
hoping the colonel had
picked for me. Decent length,
two - hundred - and - twenty-five
yards—a hole anyone would be
proud to hole-in-one on. I
pulled a number-two wood out
of my bag.
“‘Fancy yourself, don’t you?’
said Jonesy. ‘What’s wrong with
your number-one?’
“Like a fool I took his advice,
put back the stick I’d chosen and
smacked with a number-one. A
perfect, drive —if the hole had
been a long one. As it was I
finished sixty yards beyond the
green, and as I wasted two shots
getting it out of long grass I
could feel the colonel laughing
at me for taking Jonesy’s. advice
instead of his.
“The next three holes were
long ones and held no interest
for me. Then we came to the
one - hundred - and-seventy-yard
twelfth —the one where Simpson
sliced into the tree to bounce
back and roll into the hole.
Well, I hit one of the same trees,
bounced in the direction of the
green, ran over a bank and began
to trickle towards the hole. It
wasn’t going very fast, but I still
reckon it would have had legs
enough to get there.”
“What stopped it?” I asked.
“A blasted crow. Swooped
down out of the trees and carried
it off. Mind you, I don’t
begrudge a crow a ball now and
again, provided he takes it
honestly and doesn’t sneak away
with it when nobody’s looking.
But snatching a ball when it’s
only a yard from the pot is past
a joke. I was unlucky, you
must admit. There was Colonel
Bogey doing his damnedest to
get me a hole in ,one, and I was
being robbed by everyday things
like flag-sticks, heel-marks, crows
and idiots giving wrong advice.
6 6'THERE was only one
chance left now
Adams’s sixteenth, the shortest
hole on the course. A-hundred-
and-fifteen yards, and bunkered
all round.
“ ‘Well, this is it,’ I thought.
‘Now or never.’ It was never —
and I couldn’t blame the crows,
flag-sticks, heel-marks or idiots
for that one. Couldn’t even
blame the colonel. It was
just a rotten bad shot. I
nearly cut the top off the
ball, and it went skimming
along the ground with a hop-
step-and-jump motion until it
found the bunker. I almost
expected it to climb up the other
side of the bunker and roll across
to the hole, but the colonel must
have thought he’d helped me
enough already. The ball stayed
well and truly in the bunker.”
“Thanks for the yam,” I said.
“I’m sorry you missed your one.
I’d say the twelfth was your
stiffest piece of luck. The one
where the crow got your ball.”
The old boy ignored my
remark. “The seventeenth, of
course, is the three-hundred-and-
forty-yard dog-leg. I . . , ”
“You’re not going to tell me
you holed in one on that?” I
interrupted.
“Of course not. Matter of
fact I took an eight. Then we
came to the eighteenth ...”
I got to my feet again. “You’ll
have to excuse me,” I said,
“There’s Charlie just coming
away from the phone. I’m
sorry ...”
“I just wanted to round off the
story,” said the old boy, rather
hurt. “After all, it’s the last
hole.”
Charlie seemed in no hurry to
join us. He had glanced in my
direction, giving a peculiar grin,
and stopped to try his luck at a
poker-machine.
“Right-oh,” I said to George.
“Go ahead.”
“The eighteenth, you’ll re-
member, is what we call the
Backbreaker. Five-hundred-and-
eighty-seven yards and most of
the way uphill.”
“I know it,” I said. “Nearly
broke my back today.”
“We all got good drives away.
You remember the fairway rises
gradually from the tee till you
come to the first crest about two-
hundred-and-forty yards away?
Then there’s a slight dip before
she continues the rise.”
“Yes.”
*6 THE first three drives were
all well on the way towards
the crest. Then I had my hit.
A good clean clip, rather low. I
expected it to be up with the
others, and so it was. But I
never expected it to reach the
crest. Yet it did. We sort of
lost sight of it for a moment,
then the next thing old Dawbarn,
who was playing in the four
ahead of us and was just on top
of the crest, ducked down sud-
denly and then got up and shook
his fist at us.
“‘Hell! You nearly skittled
old Dawbarn,’ said Jonesy.
“ T couldn’t hit that far,’ I
told him, at the same time hop-
ing he was right.
“ ‘Well, someone nearly got
him,’ said Smiler, as we moved
off up the fairway.
“The other three played their
second shots, then we walked on
in search of my ball. Should
have been easy enough—the fair-
way was well-mown—but I’m
hanged if we could find it.
Jonesy suggested that Dawbarn
or one of his party must have
played it by mistake, but that
didn’t seem likely, as they’d
played their shots before I hit —
all except Dawbarn, and we saw
him play from the crest just after
my ball gave him the scare.
“There was a patch of rough
slightly off the line on the left,
and I decided that somehow or
other my ball must have got
there. I started searching around
in the grass while the others con-
centrated on the fairway. After
a couple of minutes the four
behind us came pressing up, so I
called to the others to play on.
My score for the round was
pretty awful, so I decided to
give it away. The others played
on, and presently we reached the
green, where we found Dawbarn
and his team and the four ahead
of them waiting for us.
“ ‘Any of you blokes lose a
ball?’ asked Jock Bruce, one
of the four that had got to the
firs,.
lone?/ 0180 ’ ’ ’
“ ‘What kind?’ *
“‘Balding Spar with blue
dots,’l told him,‘and a bit of a
cut in it where I topped it at the
sixteenth.’
“‘Catch,’ said Jock, throwing
me my ball.
“ ‘Where did you find it?’ I
Iu the hole.
6 6TTHE other three laughed,
-*■ but I didn’t. I knew what
his answer was going to be
before he spoke.
“That’s where it was, all
right,’Jock assured them.
“ ‘But it couldn’t be,’ said
j onesy- ‘George lost his right
baek on the f irst creS t.’
«* a eood swine ’ said Jock
admiringC Sc m yot
crack from. George?’
“
What.
R„was my tee-shci, ray
drive.
Jock laughed then, but Law-
bam chipped in and asked I nut
was your ball that nearly hit me
on the first crest, wasnt it,
Yes.
“ Well, I reckon you might
be right. That ball was travel-
ling like a jet-bomber. It could
have gone any distance.’
“ ‘But not five-hundred-and-
eighty-seven yards! ’ protested
Jack Roberts. ‘Why, the world’s
record drive is four-hundred-
and-forty-five—and I reckon that
must have been downhill with a
gale of wind behind it.’
“ ‘Meet the new champion,’
said Dawbarn. ‘lf that ball had
hit my head it would have gone
clean through, it was going so
fast.’
“We started pooling informa-
tion. Jones, Smiler and Roberts
agreed that it was my ball, all
right. Dawbarn and his team
could swear to a ball, apparently
my drive, whizzing past them on
{Continued on page 34)
she has never given you any
grounds for jealousy ...”
Peter let him talk, listening
with one half of his mind while
the other part was occupied with
a memory of having heard—or
read —of some classical example
of another man who found it
impossible to live with a chaste
and handsome wife. Suddenly
he recalled when and where he
had read it.
TT had happened shortly after
-“-he had secured his degree.
He was being sent to an out-
back mining show and he asked
his father’s advice about
reading-matter.
“I can’t cart a lot of stuff with
me,” he had explained. “I’d like
one book that’d keep my mind
occupied for months. Is there
such a thing? Don’t suggest
Shakspeare—l had a sickener
of him at school.”
“There is such a thing,” his
father had replied, “and it isn’t
Shakspeare.” From the shelf
he had taken a fat brown
volume. Peter had glanced
through it, to remark that it was
all ancient history and would
probably be pretty dry.
“Don’t you make any error,”
his father had said warmly.
“Old Plutarch shows us how
human nature has altered little
in the past two-thousand years.
In these pages you’ll see where
many of our later writers
obtained their inspirations.”
He had taken it with him;
later he had blessed his father
for having recommended it. He
had brought it back; no doubt
it was still in its old place on the
shelf. He interrupted what the
minister was saying.
“It’s good of you to offer to
try to persuade Agnes to act
differently, Sam, but it wouldn’t
work. Two years ago I made up
my mind to do this same thing,
but at the last minute she climbed
down. Within less than a week
she was raising hell’s delight be-
cause I was going to a smoke-
social.”
He laughed grimly. “She’s still
riding the high horse now
because she thinks I’m not in
earnest. I suppose it’ll fall to
you to break the news to her
about it being definite this time.
I don’t envy you the job. Don’t
say any jnore to me —my mind’s
made up. Come on.”
TGHEN they returned to the
’' sitting-room, he ran his gaze
along the backs of the leather-
bound books on the shelves until
he came to the title Plutarch’s
Lives.
“Excuse me,” he said, as he
took it down and began to turn
the leaves. Could he find the
passage after all these years?
The name Paulus as a chapter-
heading jolted his memory;
then the words caught his eye.
He took an old envelope from
his pocket and laid it on the
passage to mark it.
“You can read it after I’ve
gone,” he said quietly, as he
placed the heavy volume on the
table. “Old Plutarch is very like
Shakspeare at times —no matter
what it is, he’s put it into words
for you.”
He glanced at them in turn,
“If you don’t understand after
you’ve read it, then it can’t be
helped. Anyway, it fits my case,
so I’m going and I won’t come
back.”
“Perhaps it is the only way
out,” the doctor remarked.
The minister agreed with a
regretful nod.
“Can you beat it?” Betty said
waspishly. “As usual, the men
stick up for each other!”
Peter stopped to kiss his
sister; then he laid a hand oh
her greying hair. “You did what
you thought was best,” he said,
“but there’s only one way out
and I’m taking it. I’ll write to
you every week or so.” He
shook hands with the two men ;
he farewelled his wife’s sisters
with a nod and went out.
BETTY glanced at the volume
on the table, her thin lips
twisting into a sneer. “Fancy
quoting books,” she said.
Dr. Baldwin went to the table,
read the lines marked by the
envelope, looked surprised ; read
them again. Then his face
twitched.
“You seem to find it amus-
ing!” Joan commented.
“In a way,” he replied. “It’s
also illuminating.” He read the
passage for the third time, then
closed the book and returned it
to the shelf.
“You might tell us what it
says,” Betty complained. # ,
“Sorry,” he apologised. “I
put it back without thinking.
I’ll try to find the place again,
but . it’ll be a bit of a
contract”
“Quote some of it,” the
minister suggested. “I’ve read
Plutarch. I might be able to
recall it.”
“A Roman was censured by
his friends for divorcing a wife
who was chaste, fair and —
and”
“Fruitful,” the minister put in,
suppressing an involuntary smile.
“Yes, I renr?mber it.’? In a
regretful tone he added: “One
hates to admit it might hold
good with your own sister, but
I fear it’s been the case with
Agnes and Peter.”
“You might tell us, then,” said
Betty. “We haven’t the time to
wade through musty old books.”
“Well, they berated this
Roman for divorcing his wife.
Was she not fair? Was she not
chaste? Was she not fruitful?
“By way of reply he held out
a shoe and said: ‘ls it not hand-
some? Is it not new? Yet I’m
the only one who knows how
cruelly it’s been pinching me! ’ ”


Australian Historical Sketches
The O.T. Line
By M. H. ELLIS
NEXT year it will be a
century since a London
firm called Brett and
Carmichael, which had
laid cables in the Mediterranean
and which had plans for extend-
ing telegraph-lines to India, pro-
duced a plan to connect Ceylon
by cable with the west coast of
Australia.
The colonial Governments of
that day were almost too stag-
gered to reply, much less to take
the scheme seriously, but by the
end of the decade the idea had
become a matter of practical
politics and was duly reported on
in South Australia by Mr.
Charles Todd, who recommended
it eventually on the basis of an
overland telegraph - line from
Adelaide to the north coast and
a cable thence via Timor.
It was reckoned in 1862 that
the cost of laying the landline
would be round £185,000, and
that its maintenance (with a
dozen stations), including
salaries, would be about £20,000,
a year.
The success of McDouall
Stuart’s third attempt to cross the
continent via Newcastle Waters,
Daly Waters, the Strangways and
the Adelaide River provided data
about the route in 1862, but it
•was not till 1869 that a real move
was made.
It didn’t look much of a job
on paper—the mere driving of a
line of wire on posts across
about 2000 miles of bush and
desert, the bulk of it free of
surface water and completely
innocent of roads, but rich in
wild blacks, mulga, goannas,
death-adders and spinifex.
All that was necessary was to
cut or carry 36,000 posts or so,
set them up, attach the insula-
tors and five- or six-thousand
miles of wires to them, build
repeater - stations at intervals
with strong walls and loopholes
to keep out the warrigals and
find some way of preventing the
white-ants from eating the
poles—which in , the northern
sectors they did with relish when
wood was used —and the blacks
from cutting down the wire,
which they found excellent for
making spear-points.
As a preliminary, the route
had to be explored thoroughly
and some means had to be found
of getting supplies into the
northern sector, which ran
hundreds of miles from the coast
until it came near Darwin.
Charles Todd was primarily
an astronomer and telegraphist,
educated at Greenwich Observa-
tory, and between 1855 and 1858
he had had the experience in
laying a line from Adelaide to
Melbourne. Few took him
seriously when he offered to
build the line from Port Augusta
to Darwin. But amid a lot of
jocose humor at his expense, in
which even the goannas were
pictured as laughing at him, it
was suddenly realised that those
who should know overseas
believed in his idea.
In June, 1870, the British
Australian Telegraph Company
announced in London that it was
willing to lay a cable to Darwin
if the South Australian Govern-
ment would build the O.T. line.
It was soon realised that Queens-
land was perched like a vulture
in the north-east ready to steal
the scheme if there was any
hesitation. South Australia
moved suddenly. Within a week
Todd had his bill passed, was
appointed P.M.G. and had
£120,000 voted towards the job.
Within another week he had
tenders out and the route divided
into three for operating pur-
poses, with repeating-stations
planned to be built every 200
miles.
But what the work actually
involved nobody quite knew, for,
except for Stuart’s party, none
had more than the foggiest idea
of what lay in the central 1400
miles of country through which
the line was to run.
The rail terminus in the south
was Kapunda, 60 miles from
Adelaide. Nobody lived between
the Finke and the Darwin region
except savages.
While Todd got arrangements
moving at the northern and
southern ends, a party led by old
John Ross —then young and
black-bearded and verra Hieland
of speech—of which the qther
members were Alfred Giles, the
explorer of the West, E. W.
Harvey, another Scot (but, alas,
a Lowlander), Tom Crisp, who
had been with MacKinlay qn
the north coast, and W. Hearne
set out to survey the central
section.
They travelled by compass,
with the usual bushman’s kit of
those days, jerked-beef for main
ration while it lasted, damper
when that ran out, and what they
could shoot, which was not
much. Theirs were the first
horses to trample a way through
the Heavitree Gap on to the site
of Alice Springs township, to
christen the Todd River, on
which it stands, and Alice
Springs itself after Todd’s wife.
Tfiey found Stuart’s papers at the
Stirling, Central Mount Stuart,
and toasted their forerunner in
0.-p. rum. They set the sites for
the stations —Beltana in Flinders,
the Peake on the Strangways
Springs, Charlotte Waters on the
edge of Sturt’s Stony Desert,
Alice Springs, Barrow Creek
against its lonely hillside,
Tennant’s Creek just through the
curious gap in the ranges, Daly
Waters, Powell Creek, Newcastle
Waters, the Katherine River,
over which led the last 200 miles
of wire into Darwin.
+ +
In their wake from the south,
like the Israelites out of Egypt,
came a rustling army of men and
stock. Fed with the beef of
Booyoolee (which gave its name
to “bully” beef), earning a wage
of 255.-a-week-and-keep, each
gang held 200 workers, with
800 horses, 200 bullocks and the
camel-teams carrying poles and
heavy equipment—their curious
motion was to be associated with
the O.T. line for many a year.
And 2000-head of sheep were in
charge of Harley Bacon, son of
Lord Byron’s lanthe, Lady
Charlotte Bacon,
Love’s image upon earth without
his wing,
And guileless beyond Hope’s
imagining,
on whom the poet’s “loveless
eyes” gazed unmoved. He
certainly would never have gazed
unmoved on Charlotte Waters,
set amid the flat desolation of
the four-inch-rainfall desert,
when they were discovered by
A. T. Woods, leading his advance-
guard of workers on his charger,
Bonnie Dundee, in a hot,
droughty January of 1871. This
is country over which a cloud
rarely empties itself—a strange
spot to be named after a lovely
daughter of an Earl of Oxford.
The contractor for the
southern section was E. P. Bagot,
later head of Bagot, Shakes and
Lewis, the great pioneering firm.
In the north the Darwin shipping
agents of Darwent and Dalwood
undertook the construction.
By July 1, 1871, the southern
gangs were through to their
second station at the Peake and
the central section had been
pushed on through the
McDonnells. The first post went
up in Darwin in August, 1870.
What material there is waiting
for a novelist in the tale of that
epic and what characters,
human and equine!
The horses were almost as
famous as the men. John Ross’s
stout Stanley had its name placed
on a billabong just as readily as
that of Dr. Renner —the expedi-
tion medico, whose beat was a
thousand miles long and whose
main medicine was 0.-p. rum —
was put on Renner Springs and
Doctor’s Stones. The Warloch,
where Ross and Keith Smith
had an emergency landing-place,
commemorates a neddy whose
water-finding capacity more than
once saved lives.
Nearly every other classic
name on the O.T. route has some
connection with the building of
the line —Lake Woods, after
A. T. Woods; Attack Creek,
where a party met the local
blacks —John Milner was nullaed
there and died ; his name is on
Milner’s Cutting, the clearing
they made through the Lance-
wood near Newcastle Waters to
let their sheep through.
“f- +
While the southern sections of
the work went ahead steadily
and to schedule, the story was
different in the north. There the
contractors gave up after they
had put down 156 miles of wire
and 220 miles of poles. The
news got through to Todd’s
headquarters at the Peake in
July, 1871, It came as a stun-
ning blow, since the contract
with the B.A.T. called for the
completion of the line by
December, 1871, in default of
which the company reserved the
right to push on its cable to
Normanton (Q.) and make a con-
nection with the south via Bris-
bane —a scheme which the
Queenslanders were only too
anxious to further.
His solution was R, C. Patter-
son, Resident-Engineer for Rail-
ways, who was instructed to
proceed at once to the north to
build that part of the line beyond
19i degrees north—that is, from
Tennant’s Creek onward. Apart
from his salary, he was promised
a bonus of £l5OO if he finished
the northern section before
December 31, 1871, £lOOO if it
went through by January 15,
£6OO by February 1, 1872.
Everybody on the line knew the
arrangement and crowbars
thudded to the song:
If the job isn’t finished by
seventy-two
Bob Patterson’s bonus will look
blanky blue.
Patterson went off on his
hopeless task from Melbourne
with a fleet of five ships, Omeo,
Himalaya, Golden Fleece, Laju
and Antipodes, bound for
Darwin and the Roper with
mountains of stores, 170 horses
and 500 bullocks, in August,
1871, and his first party went out
from Southport, the bridgehead
of Darwin, on September 8. All
the teams were hurried off to the
Katherine as they landed, weak
as many of them were.
The next few months were
filled with every kind of adven-
ture that pioneering can provide.
There was mutiny on the
Himalaya in the harbor of
Darwin. They lost nearly a
third of the bullocks shipped
from the south and 10 per cent,
of their horses —they had another
500 bullocks in the north
beside. They struck the worst
“wet” in years, nearly 50in. in
less thqn six months, turning the
country into a muddy sea.
One party sat on Providence
Knoll between the King and
Mataranka for weeks, marooned
there by the waters, playing
euchre with cards made of the
sides of meat-tins, but not far
from All Saints’ Well, which had
been so named when it had saved
the lives of a party a few months
before as they were at their last
gasp in the drought.
When the waters receded it
was like Armenia after Noah’s
flood, mud everywhere a yard
deep, but nobody cared about
that, for the news had come that
Patterson’s armada was in the
Roper and a great packhorse
team coming up the river with
supplies to relieve their starva-
tion.
They were three months over
the contract-time and Patterson’s
bonus was “blue” indeed; but
the B.A.T. had proved reason-
able, and had accepted a South
Australian grant of 5 per cent,
per annum on its capital outlay
until the wires should be
functioning. The B.A.T. cer-
tainly was patient, for it had
hauled the Darwin end of the
cable ashore on November 20,
1871.
By May, 1872, the two ends of
the landline were so close to-
gether that it was possible to link
the breach between them with a
pony-express. The northern end
was at Birdum (now the terminus
of the Darwin railway, named
after the curious family-name of
Mrs. Patterson) and the 1200
miles from the south to
Tennant’s Creek had been
finished—temporarily,
Ray Boucaut, whose name is
on Boucaut Bay, carried the
first galloping cables from
Europe over the gap with his
four-horse relays—news fresh
from London, Paris and New
York about war and peace and
society arriving in Australian
capitals only six days after
the event. This celerity
apparently proved too much
for the cable, since it gave
up the ghost somewhere in the
Java Sea and plummeted into
the ocean deeps. While they
mended it, Patterson pushed on,
and over the narrowing gap
presently John Lewis (the father
of Essington) and his brother
galloped the estafettes, as Todd
called them, d la the American
pony-expresses. Communication
through to London by the cable
was not restored until October
30, 1872.
+ +
In the meantime, on August
21, news reached Todd at
Central Mt. Stuart, the very
centre of the Australian con-
tinent, that the job was within a
few miles of being finished.
Next day north and south were
linked three miles from Frew’s
Ironstone Ponds. Todd wrote
that “I think I may with con-
fidence assert that no line pass-
ing through a similar extent of
uninhabited country and where
the materials had to be imported
and carted over such long
distances—l say no line of equal
length and presenting similar
natural obstacles has been con-
structed in the same short space
of time.... less than two
years” :
When the wires were joined I
was.... in the evening: inundated
with kindly-worded messages of
congratulation from friends in all
parts of the colonies. It was a
bitterly cold night, with a strong
south-east wind which blows so
keenly over the Interior, as seated
on the ground, with only the little
instrument (a pocket relay), I now
held in my hand, I received one
after another these friendly recog-
nitions from those who took an
active interest in my work and wel-
fare and till I was nearly frozen
and completely knocked up with
fatigue and excitement, transmitted
my replies. I called for hearty
cheers from my companions and
nearly choked my valuable cook
who eagerly essayed to respond
with a chill in bis mouth.
Including the stone stations at
the repeating-points, except at
the Tennant, Powell Creek, Yam
Creek, the Daly and Katherine,
where buildings were only tem-
porary, the line cost £338,059.
It ran in the midst of a clearing
a full chain wide which formed
the broad highway over lonely
Central Australia for nearly 70
years. It changed little for the
first 60, Even when men had
been massacred at Barrow Creek
in 1878, and the blacks after
them, the tribes still roamed
Centraha. An immense crystal-
line loneliness hung over
most of the course of the
O.T. between the wells and
the stations. No year was
without its tale, chattered
through the relays by the little
crews, some of whose members
spent almost the whole of their
lives within their stone walls
without seeing much change.
When I first knew it, life along
the line was little altered from
what it had been in the
seventies. The sand was still
there underfoot. The wires on
their blue-grey metal posts
swung on ahead into the illimit-
able distance. Sometimes a
dust-cloud rose to mark the
onward thrust of a mob of cattle
bound for the Adelaide market.
The south-east wind whipped
and bent the tall spinifex and the
mulga. The camels padded softly
nose-to-tail to the shouted com-
mands of their Afghan drivers.
The Heffernan’s Bonny Well
teams jingled by gathering to
take their loads on the way to
the Gulf.
It was all lonely, lovely in reds
and ethereal mountain blues and
gold-blonde grasses, the color of
a girl’s hair. TTrere was still
game to be had in some abund-
ance in season. The signal-fires
still sent their columns into the
sky, and now and then a very
bad smell and chatter as of a
family of Indian monkeys
announced the imminence of
some Warramungas or Amntas.
But always the wire was hum-
ming over your head. You
seemed .somehow to travel on it,
and thus you could not be lost
nor indeed lonely. ‘ If you broke
your leg you found some way to
cut it and they came for you,
You knew, if you were out of
water, that presently It would
lead you to a well.
Right up to the beginning of
World War I there were still
stages on which they gave you
arms—the most fearful old
Sniders —to carry you through
to the next station, where you
deposited them. At Daly Waters,
where there is now a pub and a
large aerodrome, I found some
of them still hanging on the wall
in the telegraph-station in 1946.
They also saw to it that you
had rations to carry you on, and
they stripped you with skill at
euchre, and gave you the Royal
Mail to take with you and
deliver to all and sundry as you
went your way.
But all that is gone. The Gov-
ernment of the ’thirties
and later war - time armies
pushed great roads ahead
of them, and these do not follow
the O.T. line the whole way. On
what the Territory calls the
“bittamen” —that broad straight
highway with its hurtling traffic
and road-trains, wayside pubs,
towns, goldfields and railways to
the Alice and Birdum—the
atmosphere of the old-time has
become lost. One has no feeling
for the route now. Travel is so
fast that the old, lovely land-
scape slips by in a blur. You do
not grasp the existence of the
steady south-east wind. You
move too swiftly to appreciate
the clean clarity of outline in
the landscape, the glowing colors
of the ranges.
It is hard to realise that even
as late as 1924 when you passed
down that way you saw only five
resident women between Maran-
boy, where there was an Inland
Mission station, and Charlotte
Waters, three at Wycliflfe Well,
two at Alice Springs, which even
then was mostly an empty space,
its main inhabitants at the store,
the police-station, where Old
Bob Stott reigned with his wife
and child and Miss Pink, the
schoolmistress over the Bungalow
—that famous home of half-
castes from which the word
boong arose as a name of the
blacks. The Aruntas did not
paint for the galleries or drive
secondhand cars in those days—
they camped down near the
Heavitree Gap when brought in
for any reason, the weei vying
(Continued on page 31)


This Is the
ELECTRICITY COMMISSION'S
INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM
This
over 95 per cent of the electricity
used in New South Wales. To the
great network of generating sta-
s have been
1952.
I
1
c
y
EXISTING POWER STATIONS
KEMPStY
☆ MAJOR POWER STATIONS
UNDER CONSTRUCTION
m
/
Vi.
/
NARROMINE
M
ini
MAJOR SUBSTATIONS
BULK SUPPLY POINTS X
m
%
«?
MAITLAND
t
■
mg® NEWCASTLE
LAKE MACQUARIE
S
■
i
Mi
ORANGE
, LITHGOW
WiIIIRiWANG
%
■
★
★
★
•COWRA
★
»*★
WiiiGilA
/
\T.
■
I
1 PORT KEMBLA
mm
fIALLAWARRA
£ TEMORA
iiiiO
I
GOUIBORM
■
\ *
m
★
■■Ml
WAGGA WAGGA
mmmmm
\
VA
'msmm
MAIN POWER LINES
m
mm
s N
N '
wmm
N
N.S.W. Power Loan Now Open!
The Power Loan provides a money-making opportunity
for everyone who has a savings bank or current account.
The rate is £4/15/- per cent.
The guarantor is the N.S.W. Government, and the Loan
is an Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland
and Tasmania.
Apply today at any Commonwealth Bank branch, the
Commission’s offices (15 Castlereagh Street, Sydney), or
through your Stockbroker.
The Power Loan is underwritten by J. B. Were & Son.
The plans g£ the Electricity Commission—
which last year increased the generating out-
put of the interconnected system by 25% —have
been progressively developed until, today, stan-
dards of efficiency and adequacy have been
reached which might have been called “impos-
sible” only a year or two ago. But this giant
task is yet to be completed in order to make
electricity supply in New South Wales the most
effective and dependable in the Common-
wealth. On Monday, the Commission launched
a new Power Loan which will play an im-
portant part in enabling still further extensions
to be carried out and power generation to be
stepped even higher. This Loan affords every
citizen an opportunity to advance the electrical
development of New South Wales and to do
so at considerable profit.
THE ELECTRICITY COMMISSION OF NEW SOUTH WALES


SPORTING NOTIONS
Horseracing in Sydney has
stood the test of time under the
jurisdiction of the A.J.C., and
departure from the present set-
up cannot be to the Turf’s
improvement. There is talk of
political moves to change control
in N.S.W., and other schemes.
From the experience of other
Australian States and in other
parts of the racing-world, when
the politician enters the field as
a Turf administrator, or a Gov-
ernment takes complete or
partial charge of affairs, racing
gets the skids under it, and this
could easily happen in N.S.W.
If the N.S.W. Government
does decide to ban bookmakers,
patrons of the totalisator will
expect a slicing of the present
tote rake-off of 121 per cent, to
the former figure of 10 per cent.
“All tote” could mean more
stake-money for owners, but
then again it mightn’t, as Gov-
ernment control would probably
mean a scooping-in of all the
money possible.
Sydney owner E. W. Russell,
who won the A.J.C. Metro-
politan (1948) with Buonarroti
Boy, had mixed fortune at the
Grafton Cup meeting. His two-
year-old Beau Jet won its first
race on the opening day, the
E. F. Holland Handicap, but
Britavah was narrowly beaten by
favorite Alinga, with Ben Hero
third, in the Cup on the second
day, the race being run in record
time.
Bred at Kia-Ora stud, Scone
(N.S.W.), Beau Jet has done little
racing. He is another of the
successful progeny of imported
Channel Swell. From Savaterie,
he is a half-brother to Merry
Duke, a Randwick winner. He
also is closely related to Carbon
Copy. Savaterie, a sister to
former Melbourne stayer Car-
pentier, is by Gay Lothario
(imp.) from Savate (half-sister to
Baba, the granddam of Carbon
Copy) by Great Star (imp.) from
Harriet Graham (imp.), a winner
of the Australian Cup, by
William the Third. Beau Jet cost
1550gns. as a yearling.
Most of the horses taken to
the recent Q.T.C. and B.A.T.C.
carnivals have returned to their
own quarters, their connections
much richer for the northern
trip. As has been the case in
recent years, the fat end of the
rich stake-money was won by
horses owned outside Queens-
land. Four from Sydney cleaned
up the major prizes, and other
visiting horses figured pro-
minently in the minor placings.
Suncup (St rad broke),
Hydrogen (Brisbane Cup), True
Leader (Ten Thousand) and
French Echo (Doomben Cup)
were the N.S.W. winners of the
“big four” of the Brisbane
round, connections lifting a lot
of money in betting, as well as
the rich prizes. Brisbane Turf-
men would like to see a more-
evenly balanced scheme —more
money during the slacker
periods, instead of so much con-
centration upon big events.
New Zealand-bred Regoli,
winner at Randwick and, on
Saturday, at Canterbury, has
firmed to favoritism for next
Saturday’s £2OOO Winter Handi-
cap, and he should be even
better suited by the seven fur-
longs than by the six over which
he won at Canterbury with 9.5
in the saddle. In the Winter
Handicap he drops to 8.12, but
the limit will be 31b. less than
on last Saturday. Regoli was
superbly handled by Neville Sell-
wood, who will ride him in the
Winter Handicap. Iroquois, who
carried 9.7 and finished second
to Regoli, has a similar weight
in the Winter Handicap, and he
again will be hard to beat, be-
cause at Canterbury he had been
allotted 10st, but was ridden by
K. Davis, who claimed 71b.
allowance. Others fancied for
the £2OOO sprint include English
Standard, Idle wild, Joy Lad and
Foreign Exchange.
Racing at Canterbury had
practically no bearing on pros-
pects for Sydney Turf Club’s
£3OOO Cup (U mile), to be run
at Rosehill on Saturday, August
1. There was no market change
apart from the firming qf
Aristocrat, but on late running
he would appear to have the
job in front of him to beat horses
like First Century and the Graf-
ton Cup winner, Alinga.
Had Persian Link drawn
closer than 20 barrier-position
at Canterbury it is pretty certain
he wouldn’t have started at the
liberal odds of 5 to 2 in the
Maiden for colts and geldings.
A little 3 to 1 was bet. Trained
at Randwick by Jack Mitchell,
the grey gelding is by a little-
known sire, Persia, who started
in two races only and had only
one representative in the Rand-
wick yearling catalogue for last
April’s yearling sales. A grey
colt from Goldage by Gold Rod,
Persian Link was sold to Bris-
bane trainer Fred Best for
600gns. Persia is by Nizami,
sire of Grey Boots, Hiraji, Fox-
zdmi, Akbar, and various other
top-class gallopers. Persian Link
was bred by Mrs. M. Murrell,
and is from a former stayer,
Two’s Company, who was by
Denis Boy (imp.) from Honey-
moon by Spearhead (imp.).
Toowoomba (Q.) trainer Bill
Neilson, a former jockey who
rode hundreds of winners in his
time and was associated with the
early career of Bernborough,
sprung a surprise on Sydney
racegoers when he produced two-
year-old filly Viola Belle, who
made an exhibition of her
.opponents in the Maiden Nursery
for fillies at Canterbury Park.
Hardly a bet was written against
the visitor’s name and 66 to 1
went begging. In parts of the
ring 100 to 1 was offered. Viola
Belle was ridden by Toowoomba
jockey Arthur Sanders, who also
was having his first Sydney ride.
There was no fluke about the
win; the filly simply toyed with
the opposition.
Viola Belle’s pedigree is most
interesting to breeding enthu-
siasts, mainly because she is from
the family lines which produced
those famous brothers Gaulus
and The Grafter, winners of the
Melbourne Cup in 1897 and 1898
respectively, a Turf feat without
parallel in big-race records in
this country. The Sydney repre-
sentative of the Country Pro-
ducers Selling Co., who bought
the filly as agent for her owner,
S. W. Butler, did well to get
her for the modest sum of
360gns. First money for Satur-
day’s success was £603. The
filly gives indications that she
will be a force to be reckoned
with in the new season. Her
sire, Elysium (imp.), is a son of
Panorama and his oldest progeny
are two-year-olds. Dam of the
youngster, Viola Fair, is a
Nizami (imp.) mare from Viola
Blonde by Dink (imp.), and
traces back to a noted horse of
the past, Nordenfeldt. The
Tetrarch figures on both sides
of the pedigree.
Moorefield trainer Neville
Davis, who has been a long time
in the racing game and has
trained many winners, led in
another one when Spanish Don
scored in the Second Maiden
Two-year-old at Canterbury,
The Pentheus colt was ridden by
veteran horseman Roy James,
who retains his fitness by being
first at the Rosebery track each
morning and one of the last to
leave. He obliges trainers by
riding any horse required, and,
now upwards of 50 years of age,
can still kick home his share of
winners. Younger jockeys
should always remember the
axiom—a jockey should be as
fit as his mount —and they
would profit by following the
example of James, who prob-
ably rides more horses in a
busy galloping-morning than
any other jockey at Rosebery.
Grey Boots will be eight years
old on August 1, but he can still
show younger 4 rivals how to win
races over staying distances, and
at Caulfield on Saturday added
“You didn't put your hand out!”
another thousand or so to his
impressive winnings when he
started favorite at 11 to 4 and
won the Murrumbeena Handi-
cap, \\ miles. It was a fine per-
formance with 9.8, indicative of
his class. Durham carried 9.10
into third place. A week earlier
Grey Boots had won at Flem-
ington, Durham then being
second, so Grey Boots appears
to have the wood on him. Dur-
ham, like Grey Boots, is a grey
gelding and also by Nizami
(imp.).
Grey Boots is now second on
the list of Australia’s stake-
winners still racing, his total
being £30,920. He has started
in upwards of 70 races for 14
wins, 11£ seconds and three
thirds.
It is good to see Melbourne
jockey Jack Purtell back to best
riding form following serious
injury. He piloted both winners
of the Caulfield two-year-old
events on Saturday, both of
them heavily supported. The
Beau, winner of the first divi-
sion, recorded his second suc-
cess in four starts, while Sir
Owen, who won the second divi-
sion, made his total three in a
row. Sir Owen is a good one,
and his easy victory indicates
more wins before the handi-
capper catches up with the
Woodruffe (imp.) colt. The
Beau is a Helios (imp.) colt from
Miss Gallant, a Windbag mare
from Gallantic by Heroic, and
representing a good winning
family. Breeders of the colt are
racing him.
Newcastle juvenile winner at
the latest meeting of that club.
Miss High Caste, improved on
prior form and gave the book-
makers a turn-up. Buyers round
the Randwick yearling ring in
April last year would not bid
beyond 21 Ogns. for the filly, and
the breeders wouldn’t accept
that offer. The filly was passed
in, and she has been prepared
for racing by Rosebery trainer
Bland Beck, whose horses have
won a number of provincial
races at recent starts. A High
Caste youngster from Empha-
size by Parenthesis (imp.). Miss
High Caste is raced by a part-
nership of four sportsmen ; she
is lightly framed, but could
develop.
Hangover, an imported
stallion located at Toowoomba
(Q.), is getting quite a number
of winners at Brisbane and other
centres in Queensland. Two
more of his progeny, Overdar
and Alibern, opened their win-
ning accounts at the Albion
Park fixture, both being well in
the betting market. Hangover,
foaled in 1940, is by His Grace,
a son of Blandford, from Over-
mist by Beresford. Darlene, dam
of Overdar, is by Hebrus, and
traces back to Wallace, son of
Carbine, while Alibern’s dam,
Key West, also is by Hebrus
from, Levasker by Leverrier.
* * *
The big Aussie Rules inter-
state carnival ended in a farce
on Saturday, when the Victorian
League team ran all over the S.
Aus. team for 19.16 to 4.7. It
was a bad end to the carnival,
which was played in mixed
weather and probably drew
100,000 spectators over the 10-
day period. The V.F.L. was
unbeaten, its only serious chal-
lenger the V.F.A. team, which
surprised the experts with the
quality of its play. West Aus-
tralia, usually a good team in
these carnivals, made a poor
showing.
In Melbourne on Saturday the
three V.F.L. competition games
went pretty much as expected.
Essendon beat Fitzroy 14.13-7.20,
North Melbourne crushed St.
Kilda 20T1-5.16, and Colling-
wood beat South Melbourne
17.17-12.9. It leaves the “four”
as Geelong, Footscray, Essen-
don, Collingwood in that order,
Geelong and Footscray to meet
next Saturday.
* * *
The Wallabies had a good win
last week, against Rhodesia, in a
game in which the backs were
pinned down but the forwards
dominated attack. Score, 31-11.
Windon, on the injured list for a
long time, played well. On
Saturday Transvaal beat the
Australians, 20 - 14. The
Wallabies were leading 14-12
with 10 minutes to go. Phipps,
in Australia a fair winger,
showed up in the game as a
brilliant centre.
In Sydney, Manly beat Rand-
wick, 19-9, in the match-of-the-
day. Randwick backline con-
sisted of recent promotions from
lower grades injuries have
been nibbling at the green
jerseys—but the switching of
five-eighth Clarrie Davis to out-
side centre upset the balance of
the Manly backline. Randwick
forwards, with Heinrich and
Gordon outstanding, put up a
good fight.
In other Rugby Union club
games Eastern Suburbs beat
Parramatta 13-8 ; Gordon beat
St. George 29-8 ; Eastwood beat
Northern Suburbs 25-6 and
University beat Drummoyne 8-6
* * *
The Manchester weather, as
usual, played ducks and drakes
with the third Test. Rain
washed out the fourth day’s play,
and curtailed play on other days!
No England-Australia Test at
Manchester has produced a
definite result since 1905 (when
England won).
Australia’s first innings (318)
lasted over parts of three days;
Harvey and Hole were together
for these three days, though
Hole wasn’t there long on the
third day (out first ball, for 66).
Jim de Courcy, in his first Test,
made a neat 41.
England’s innings, in its turn,
was interrupted by rain, and
eventually finished at 276. After
which, with no result possible
whatever happened, something
unexpected nevertheless did hap-
pen—Australia collapsed for a
nearly record low of 8-35. It
was good bowling, making full
use of the conditions ; but Aus-
tralians don’t get the same ex-
perience on rain-soaked pitches
that the Englishmen do. Even
Bradman was never at home at
such times.
Harvey was in tip-top form in
his first-innings 122 —his second
century against England and his
11th in all Tests. Harvey’s first
Test hundred was a chanceless
153 in the fifth Test against
India (1947-48) —his second
Test —and he made 112 at Leeds
(1948) in his first Test against
England. He has hit eight hun-
dreds against South Africa, in-
cluding a double-century; but
he didn’t get beyond 83 against
Goddard’s West Indians.
The first three 1953 Tests have
thus been drawn. There have
been two instances of four Tests
being drawn in the one series,
in 1899 and 1926, both times in
England. In 1899 Australia won
the second Test and retained the
rubber, and in 1926 England won
the last Test and so recaptured
the Ashes for the first time since
before 1914.
The 1934 Test at Manchester
was drawn —but not because of
rain. The batsmen were on top
(England, 9-627, closed, and
0-123, closed; Australia, 491
and 1-66). The Bulletin then
said the tremendous scoring was
due to “bad fielding and the
[poor] quality of the bowling,”
and described the game as “a
battle of mediocrities ; a draw
was a fitting finish.” Bowlers ex-
cepted from criticism were Verity
and O’Reilly.
No play was. possible on the
fourth day of the 1948 Man-
chester Test, either. At the
end of the third day Washbrook,
after being twice dropped early
by the usually safe Hassett off
Lindwall, was 85 not out and
batting well, and England
appeared to have the game well
in hand. The rain next day
brought the quip second-
innings stars, for England,
Washbrook; for Australia,
Washout.
* * ♦
Odds were as long as 8 to 1
and 10 to 1 against Harry
Hayes’s chance of beating
Freddie Dawson at Leichhardt.
Dawson eventually won on a
t.k.o. in round 10, but Hayes
(10-10) gave Dawson (10-3), as
well as his backers, an anxious
moment or two. Surprisingly
aggressive, Hayes won round one
from start to finish, and he also
scored a major portion of points
in the second round, though
Dawson did some damage with
lusty left hooks to the head.
Dawson, however, really began
to fight in the fifth round, and
had Hayes hopelessly beaten in
round 10, when, a nicely timed
right to the chin flooring Hayes,
ref. Art Mawson promptly gave
it to Dawson.
HARD RIDE
George Moore hopped out and
led the field with break
enough to win it,
While Mulley, Cook and Pod-
more passed me in the
early scramble.
I sooled my laggard moke along
to keep the beggar in it,
But all tfiat he could muster
was a funereal amble.
Then Sellwood hit the front on
one that had a ton of
backing,
As Hanley went around me
on a thing called Merry
Cricket,
But long before the heels went
in and whips were fairly
cracking,
I’d chewed an inch off my
cigar and thrown away
my ticket!
P. O. M. C.


Dad, Dave and Co.'s Creator
"Steele Rudd ”
By W. E. FITZ HENRY
THE BULLETIN of April 6,
1895, was, no doubt, con-
sidered by the literary staff
as just an ordinary run-of-
the press issue.
It contained the usual editorials
and features of the day ; cartoons
by Livingston Hopkins and Tom
Durkin; drawings by A. J.
Fischer, Frank Mahony and
Dave Souter; verse by E. J.
Brady and Arthur H. Adams.
There was little, it seemed, to
mark it apart from the issue of
the week before.
Yet that April 6 issue of
nearly sixty years ago, when
J. F. Archibald was editor and
A. G. Stephens had still to start
the Red Page, is not without a
certain importance in the history
of Australian literature. For, on
a back page, in the eye-wrecking
type of the period, appeared a
short-story called “Starting the
Selection.” A simple record of
the homely pathos and humor
of life on a small Darling Downs
selection, it began:
It’s twenty years ago now since we
settled on the Creek. Twenty years!
I remember well the day we came
from Stanthorpe, on Jerome’s dray
—eight of us, and all the things—
beds, tubs, a bucket, the two cedar
chairs with the pine bottoms and
backs that Dad put in them, some
pint-pots and old Crib. It was a
scorching hot day, too —talk about
thirst! At every creek we came to we
drank till it stopped running.
Dad did not travel with the
family and old Grib. He had
gone to the selection some
months before, to erect a slabbed
house, with shingled roof, and
dig a waterhole, and generally
get things ready. The property
was “a real wilderness —nothing
but trees, goannas, dead timber
and beans ; and the nearest house
Dwyer’s was three miles
away.... Lonely! It was
lonely.” But Dad thought it
was fine land, with valuable
timber on it, and gold to be
found amongst the rocks on the
ridges.
And so the family arrive at
Shingle Hut on the creek with
all their goods and chattels and
settle down to the heartbreak-
ing business of clearing the
selection and getting it under
cultivation.
It was thus, in this simple
story, that Bulletin readers of
nearly three generations ago
were introduced to the best-
known and most lovable family
in Australian fiction —the famous
Rudd family, the children of the
retentive and inventive brain of
Arthur Hoey Davis, better
known as “Steele Rudd,” a
young and then unheard-of
Queensland writer.
Over the years all Australia
was to become familiar with the
Rudd family; with Dad
(Murtagh Joseph), his wife
(Ellen —always Mother in the
stories, never Mum); Dan (the
prodigal son who was always
going off and coming back to
loaf on the family); hard-
working, dependable Dave; Joe
(an irrepressible young bush
scamp, if ever there was one);
the twins, and the girls—Kate,
Sarah (more often Sal than
Sarah) and Norah —and the
younger fry, various relatives,
and, of course. Uncle Peter.
Characters and settings have
been borrowed by other writers
on many occasions since Dad
and Mother and the rest made
their debut in the middle
’nineties, but the imitations —
they are still going strong to this
day—have signally failed to
improve on the original. Though
created so long ago, the Rudd
family still retain their freshness,
and as a recorder of their adven-
tures at Shingle Hut and else-
where their literary father,
“Steele Rudd,” has had no peer.
Arthur Hoey Davis (the Hoey
comes from the name of a
country bookseller) was bom at
Drayton, near Toowoomba (Q.),
on November 14, 1868, the
eighth child in a family of
thirteen. His father, Thomas
Davis (originally Davies), had
come from Wales, where he had
served an apprenticeship as a
blacksmith and farrier. He is
f
said to have had a fine tenor
voice, and that he would sing
“The Rocky Road to Dublin”
or “The Wind Among the
Barley” at the drop of a hat. It
has also been said that Thomas
Davis had some engineering
knowledge, and that he was with
Thomas Mitchell’s exploring
expedition to the Maranoa and
with J. C. Burnett’s survey-party.
“Steele Rudd’s” mother was
Mary Green, a colleen from out-
side Roscommon, who, had she
had her way, would have made
her son a clergyman, like the
Rev. Mr. Macpherson, of the
story “The Parson and the
Scone.”
Thomas Davis took up a selec-
tion at Emu Creek, on the
Darling Downs, and there the
son was educated at the local
school, which figures in a “Steele
Rudd” book. On Emu Creek.
In a letter to A. G. Stephens,
dated November 27, 1897,
“Steele Rudd” said:
When I wasn’t watering cows or
driving horses in the plough or hunt-
ing kangaroos or bears, I at
school up to about the age of twelve.
I do not know if I was very bright
there, but I remember the school-
master telling me I was the smartest
boy in my class. I also remember
being the only one in the class.
After leaving school the boy
worked at odd jobs on a station,
and at fifteen became a junior
stockrider oh Pilton station on
the Downs. Like Paterson, he
loved horses to the end of his
days. In after years he used to
tell how, when he was a lad doing
the work he loathed, such as
yarding sheep and cutting lambs’
tails and cutting the Bathurst-
burr in the summer heat, he was
haunted by the dread that he
would never get away from the
scorching plains. In his own
words:
Hammering at the d- burr all
day (and with the fear of snakes) I
thought, Will there ever be work in
the shade or am I doomed to work
in this sun with flies and burrs for
ever?
When “Steele Rudd” was
eighteen he became a junior clerk
in the office of the Curator of
Intestate Estates in Brisbane, and
in 1889 was transferred to the
Sheriff’s office, which is the
scene of some amusing incidents
in his book The Dashwoods.
He has told that, on the eve
of a double hanging in Boggo-
road jail while he was in the
Sheriff’s office, the hangman
called.
“Well, young man,” the hang-
man said to “Steele Rudd,” “are
you coming over to see the fun
tomorrow morning?”
“I am not,” said the young
man with disgust,
“You don’t mean to tell me
you’ll miss the chance of seeing
QRIGINALLY, from close-on sixty years ago. The
Bulletin ran “Steele Rudd’s” stories or sketches from
time to time as they came along. Subsequently expanded
for the purpose, the fresh, early crop of them, bound-up in
book form, was also published by The Bulletin as
“On Our Selection,” with “Our New Selection” to follow,
making together the richest comedy-chronicle in Australian
literature. In this continuous-chronicle form they are now
to appear, or reappear, as a weekly serial in The Bulletin,
and are also being published together as a book by Angus
and Robertson. The first serial instalment will be in
next week’s Bulletin.
a man and woman taking the
drop at the same time?”
exclaimed the hangman, “They’ll
both go off like this.” Making a
clicking noise with his tongue,
he placed a clammy hand on the
back of “Steele’s” neck and
squeezed it.
The young mah’s furious
anger astonished the playful
hangman, who hurriedly left the
office under the threat of a
hiding.
In his spare-time the young
man from Emu Creek took up
rowing. This led to his contri-
buting a column on rowing to
the “Chronicle,” a now long-
defunct Brisbane weekly. Find-
ing that he required a pseudonym,
he adopted that of “Steele
Rudd.” The first name was
suggested by the name of the
English essayist, the second was
a shortening of rudder; he
wanted to bring into his name
some part of a boat.
About this time “Steele
Rudd” began to write fiction of
a sort, placing a little with a
Brisbane weekly. He was advised
by an old bachelor at the
boarding-house where he lodged
"Steele Rudd ” as Low pictured him
to “try The Bulletin.” He did,
and got an answer in the
“Correspondents” column :
“A.H.D., Brisbane: An opium-
sodden dream without beginning,
middle or end.”
That put him off fiction for a
couple of years, till he hit on the
happy idea of writing his recol-
lections of life on the family
selection at Emu Creek. In a
magazine article printed forty-
five years ago, “Steele Rudd”
said:
Allowing for embroidery, the inch
dents related in On Our Selection
are for the jnost part true “Dad”
I drew from several sources. He is
a triangle, or a “trinity”: he is
three in one. The only one of the
group strictly drawn from life is
“Cranky Jack.”
Encouraged by J. F. Archibald
and A. G. Stephens, he turned
in, after his first Bulletin
success, a herd of selection
stories. “They came charging
into the office like a mob of
wild brumbies,” said A.G.
“There was no stopping them.”
Archibald wrote him many
letters. “Dear Mr. Davis,” he
wrote in his own hand, “Here-
with cheque for ‘Fourteen Years
Ago,’ which we’ll keep a while,
for a special occasion. Those
selection sketches of yours
should be very interesting when
collected and published one day.
Yours very truly, J. F. Archi-
bald.” And later Archibald
wrote: “ ‘Lady Comes to Shingle
Hut’ printed this (coming) week.
It is a fine yarn; by such things
is your name made. Take my
advice, and don’t consciously
write below your standard.”
Some of Archibald’s letters to
“Steele Rudd” are preserved in
the Mitchell Library, Sydney.
Towards the end of 1899 The
Bulletin published in book-
form On Our Selection, a collec-
tion of twenty-six of the selec-
tion stories. At Archibald’s
request “Steele Rudd” improved
some of them. A. G. Stephens
steered the book through the
press. A fine piece of book-
production, with its clear type
and tasteful binding, the 1899
edition has stood up well to the
ravages of time. Today the
edition commands a fancy price
in the second-hand bookshops.
It was lavishly illustrated from
drawings by A. J. Fischer, A. H.
Fullwood, George Lambert,
Fred Leist, Frank Mahony and
Alf Vincent.
Within four years, 20,000
copies had been printed. It
afterwards appeared in numerous
cheap editions published by the
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., and by
1940 the number of copies sold
had reached 250,000. In 1912
On Our Selection, with incidents
from other books, was
dramatised and produced by
Bert Bailey and his company. It
remained an Australian stage-
favorite for many years. The
book has also been the subject
of more than one film.
On Our Selection was pirated
by American publishers and
“Steele Rudd” received not one
penny. Russian, German and
Scandinavian publishing firms
wished to translate it, but “Steele
Rudd,” who was favorable to the
project, was foolishly dissuaded
by a friend, the argument being
that it would be too difficult to
check royalty accounts!
“Steele Rudd” soon had his
imitators, among them being
Henry Fletcher, with his Dads
Wayback series, and Sumner
Locke, with her Mum Dawson,
Boss books. “Steele Rudd” was
amazingly tolerant towards his
imitators, and when one of them
died went out of his way to write
an appreciation of the writer for
2 memorial volume. If one thing
made him wild, however, it was
a Dad-and-Dave wireless pro-
gramme that ran some years ago.
He objected strongly, too, when
he heard the Rudd parents called
“Dad and Mum.” “It is
‘Mother,’ ‘Mother,’ ‘Mother,’ ”
he would shout, flushed in the
face.
The Bulletin followed-up
the success of On Our Selection
with the publication in 1903 of
Our New Selection, another col-
lection of stories written for its
pages. In it relative prosperity
has replaced the struggle at
Shingle Hut, and the Rudd
family migrate to a larger
acreage known as Saddletop. As
with the first, the copyright of
the second volume was disposed
of by The Bulletin to the
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., which
published many cheap editions
of it over the years.
“Steele Rudd” afterwards
published a long run of selection
stories in book-form, including
Back at Our Selection, Sandy’s
Selection, Dad in Politics (which
caused a stir; the author was
very nearly called to the Bar of
the Queensland Legislative
Assembly for his satirisation of
the Government), From Selection
to City, Grandpa’s Selection, The
Book of Dan, Stocking Our
Selection and others. Most of
them, according to Percival
Serle, were successful, but there
could not have been a great deal
of profit for the author from the
cheap editions.
Morris Miller, in his Aus-
tralian Literature, lists no fewer
than twenty-three books by
“Steele Rudd,” including two
capable books written towards
the end of his life: The
Romance of Runnibede and
Green Grey Homestead. Both
were departures from the
author’s usual approach to his
characters. In The Romance of
Runnibede, for instance, an
entertaining pioneering novel,
vibrant with life and rich in local
color, “Steele Rudd” handles his
characters in a serious mood;
but he found that, having estab-
lished a reputation for humor, it
was difficult to find a public for
these departures.
“Steele Rudd” also ventured
into magazine-editing and -pub-
lishing. In 1903, by when he had
become under-sheriff, he resigned
from the Queensland public
service, and next year brought
out “Rudd’s Magazine,” a
monthly published at sixpence a
copy, which continued for nearly
four years, and which was
revived under various names dur-
ing the ’twenties. It had a longer
lease of life than most Aus-
tralian magazines of the period,
but, as was proved even in the
case of the substantially-backed
Bulletin monthly, “The Lone
Hand,” there was not a suffi-
ciently large public in Australia
to support a magazine,
“Steele Rudd” attracted some
first-class writers and artists to
the magazine, also to his Steele
Rudd’s Xmas Annual (1917-23),
including many Bulletin
hands —Randolph Bedford, Will
Ogilvie, David McKee Wright,
Edward Dyson, E. S. Sorenson,
Arthur Bayldon and Harold
Mercer among the writers;
David Low, Ambrose Dyson and
Ashton Murphy among the
artists.
“Steele Rudd” has been
described as “a tall, ruddy-faced
man of mercurial temperament,
kind of heart, fiery of temper,
an excellent talker and a charm-
ing companion.” The Bulletin
remembered him at the time of
his death as “a tall, gentle man
who might, with his close-clipped
moustache, have been a retired
solicitor or Army officer.”
As secretary to S. H. Prior,
then editor of The Bulletin, I
saw a fair deal of “Steele Rudd”
during the ’twenties and early
’thirties. I was also associated
with him in the early days of the
Fellowship of Australian
Writers, when it was a fellowship
and a power in the land, in the
company of John Le Gay
Brereton, Fred Broomfield,
Walter Jago and Roderic Quinn,
(Continued on page 34)


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
COMMERCIAL TV
In Britain the Government
has now postponed any action
on commercial television to
allow further general public
discussion, London “Observer”
reporting that public-opinion
polls and all other indications of
popular feeling have shown that
there is no strong desire for its
introduction.
In advance of any full details
of the plans, or even of any
House of Commons discussion
of thqm, Mr. Attlee (“Daily
Herald” report) served notice
that “a Labor Government
would reverse any decision to
start commercial TV.”
“The whole Movement,” com-
mented the Labor “Daily
Herald,” “will support him. So
will most Liberals, a large num-
ber of Conservatives and the
great majority of those with no
party allegiance. Only a tiny
handful want to expose Britain
to the perils and vulgarities of
Americanised TV.”
If that is true there would
seem to be little reason why the
“Daily Herald” or the various
others opposing “commercial
TV” should get so excited.
Those against commercial TV
include such influential organs as
the “Times” and the “Man-
chester Guardian,” which (as
the “Spectator” puts it) “have
written as though the Govern-
ment intended to pluck television
clean out of the hands of the
8.8. C. and toss it casually to
commercial wolves who would,
apparently, slavishly imitate the
lowest American operators”
(the “Spectator” having in mind
the American television vulgar-
ising of the Coronation by such
“unedifying” additions as “the
antics of Mr. J. Fred Muggs,”
the performing monkey).
The Archbishop of Canterbury
and Archbishop of York, as
spokesmen for the Church, have
come out strongly against com-
mercial TV.
Actually, what all the furore
in Britain is about is not “com-
mercial TV” but private-enter-
prise TV —an adoption, or
adaptation, for Britain’s TV of
the Australian mixed-radio sys-
tem ; a break, that is, from
8.8. C. monopoly.
This, of course, is what
worries Mr. Attlee and the
“Daily Herald,” along with the
“New Statesman” and other
nationalisation adepts. Hence,
on its main issue, the British dis-
cussion has little relevance in
Australia, the main issue being,
not - whether the 8.8. C. should
have the advertisement-assist-
ance of commercial interests in
putting on the admittedly very
costly TV, but whether the
8.8. C. should have private-
enterprise opposition in this
prospectively very lucrative
field.
Apart from that main issue,
however, some of the points
raised in the British controversy
have a wider application, par-
ticularly to Australia, with tele-
vision here still a long way off,
whereas in Britain it has
reached the stage where a Lon-
don “Daily Telegraph” letter-
writer can describe a 8.8. C. tele-
vision production as “superb.”
* * ♦
London “Spectator” : “The
Government must know very
well by this time that in per-
mitting sponsored television it
would have to frame the rules
with the greatest possible care.”
* * *
London “Financial Times”:
“Television is, of course, enor-
mously expensive, so expensive
that without advertising revenues
it would be impossible to pro-
vide both high quality and a
choice of programmes. A re-
port by advertisers brings out
how great this problem is. It
calculates that the cost to the
8.8. C. per programme-hour is
now as high as £l3OO, and sug-
gests that a single rival service
on a comparable scale would
need between £6,000,000 and
£8,000,000 a year in revenue, out
of the £80,000,000 to £90,000,000
currently spent on display adver-
tising in total.”
• • • •
The same : “The chief ad-
vantage of commercial televi-
sion, to which all others are sub-
sidiary, is that it breaks the
hygienic mental monopoly of the
8.8. C. It has been shown in
the United States that television
has a great, even a frightening,
power of moulding the lives of
its audience. That is not some-
thing which should be left to
London “Daily Express”
"...And now the B.B.C. takes great pleasure in presenting ‘Hamlet' by
W. Shakspeare—as it would be produced by sponsored TV.”
any one body to use. If, how-
ever, commercial television is to
do its work properly certain con-
ditions will have to be observed.
The first is that it should not
suffer from undue restrictions on
serious controversy. It should
also provide a regional service
both to the viewer and to the
advertiser. It is desirable that
the method of advertising
should be by buying time.”
♦ * *
Edinburgh ‘Scotsman” : “The
8.8. C. will start with consider-
able advantages, for its televi-
sion network is expected to be
extended to cover the whole
country before competitors
could begin operations.”
The same: “American, tele-
vision, which is not all bad, is
held up as an awful warning of
what would happen here; the
public would be corrupted, we
are told, by unscrupulous adver-
tisers pandering to sordid in-
terest in sex and crime in order
to attract the largest possible
audience. Even if it were
assumed that the public’s tastes
are as low as the critics of com-
petitive television imply, spon-
sors of programmes would not
enjoy a free hand for their
allegedly nefarious activities.
The Government are reported to
have prepared a strict code for
the control of commercial tele-
vision, which, indeed, may be
liable to such restrictions that
its attractions for advertisers
may be weaker than is generally
assumed.”
* * *
Randolph Churchill {London
“Daily Telegraph” letter):
“Through radio and television
the advertiser is enabled to make
his appeal to many millions of
people at the same instant in
time. This unquestionably tends
towards the creation, as it is
intended to do, of a mass-mind,
with increasingly standardised
tastes and appetites.
“The growing standardisation
of life and the consequent lack
of variety are one of the saddest
aspects of the American scene.
If in this country [Britain] we
are to remain a variegated com-
munity of individuals capable of
exercising our own judgment, it
seems vital that commercial ad-
vertisers should not be allowed
to mould our entertainment.
“It is one of the paradoxes of
modern life that more varied
radio programmes are provided
by the 8.8. C. with its monopoly
than by the four or five compet-
ing systems in the United States.
“In America the advertiser,
whose only aim is to get the
largest audience, tends inevit-
ably to produce the sort of pro-
gramme which the greatest mass-
audience will enjoy. The 8.8. C.
quite rightly does this part of
the time ; but it can also afford
to produce programmes designed
to interest special sections of
the community.
“The free competitive system
of America has, after all, pro-
duced nothing in radio to equal
the [8.8.C.] Third Programme,
and nothing on television to
equal the 8.8.C.’s superb pro-
duction on Coronation Day.
“Free competition for the
mass-mind of the millions has
produced monotony and uni-
formity. It has been left to the
monopolistic 8.8. C. to make
bold experiments in both enter-
tainment and education. In the
United States there is a choice
of four or five radio pro-
grammes, all, for the most part,
equally vapid or vulgar. Here
we have a choice of three, each
of high quality and markedly
different from the other two.”
« * *
London “Time and Tide ”:
“In America it is the sponsor
who determines the programmes.
That is not contemplated here
[in Britain]. The programmes
will be arranged by the
organisations licensed to set-up
commercial television, who will
offer advertising time in the
same way that the newspapers
offer advertising space. Nor
will the advertiser be free to use
objectionable matter even in the
time he pays for, any more than
the advertiser in the Press is
allowed to do so in the space he
buys. Indeed, there is no reason
to suppose that the advertiser
would wish to do any such
thing. He is not a fool. It has
not escaped his notice that some
of the most popular television
programmes put out by the
8.8. C. are not the light and
frivolous ones, but serious ones
like ‘ln the News.’
“Mention of this programme
brings up to the heart of the case
for commercial television.
Monopoly is bad in any field. It
is especially bad in respect of
the instruments which, mould
and control public opinion. That
is the essence of the case
against a nationalised Press and
against Government control of
the Press.”
The same : “We should not be
deterred from taking the right
decision by any lapse of taste
on the part of American televi-
sion. Our standards are not, in
any case, theirs. And also, in
any case, it is well within our
competence to lay down a code
for commercial television which
would obviate the possibility of
such lapses. Moreover, com-
mercial television in Britain does
not ipiply that 8.8. C. television
would cease. What it does
imply is that it would be subject
to competition which would
keep it on its toes, which would
make other employment pos-
sible to the producers and artists
now confined to the 8.8. C. strait-
jacket —or quietly dropped if
they don’t like the fit—and
would free from Government
monopoly an instrument whose
importance in the matter of
shaping public opinion cannot
be exaggerated. It would give
us television plus freedom, and
that is what we want.”
* * *
Sir Alexander Korda {in Lon-
don “Daily Telegraph ) : “We
have now a new generation with
a new toy. The television pub-
lic, only a few millions now,
will soon be the biggest in this
country—tens of millions, from
council houses to lonely crofts,
ready to be entertained in parlor
or kitchen, as emperors of old
were in their palaces.
“Today the 8.8. C. has to do
the job alone, but after Parlia-
ment has decided that there shall
be commercial television, giving
healthy competition to the
8.8. C., it is easy to foresee that
in 10 years or so dozens of TV
stations will put out programmes
from morning to night on mil-
lions of TV sets
“The role TV will play in-
creasingly is far more important
even than the cinema’s. The
family need not go outside for
entertainment. It will become,
instead of the visit to the cinema,
a part of daily life, a part of
the home itself. Herein lies the
enormous responsibility of those
who shape the future of tele-
vision.”
• • # •
Same: “American experts
foretold that 90 per cent, at least
of TV programmes would be
‘live,’ and no more than 10
per cent, on films. Exactly the
opposite has happened. Last
year 92 per cent, of the TV
programmes were on film, only
8 per cent, ‘live.’
“By films I do not mean those
seen in the cinemas. Hollywood
so far has boycotted the TV
screens, and the films I am
talking about are mostly made
specially for TV —half-an-hour
or 15-minute playlets, sketches,
cartoons, etc At the moment
Hollywood is making more TV
films than ordinary films for
the cinemas. .
“The moment commercial
TV starts here any sponsor can
buy these films for practically
nothing. They can be, and will
be, dumped on our doorstep,
their cost having been recovered
already in the United States. It
is obvious that great corpora-
tions selling their products—
and some of them are owned in
Britain by American companies
—will not wish to sponsor new
British-made programmes for
far more money when they have
a tried and successful American
TV film ready. We should have
to face the fact that for years
to come it would pay these spon-
sors to use accumulated Ameri-
can material rather than new
British TV films.”
• • • •
Same : “TV is too big to be
judged by commercial standards
alone. Before long it will prob-
ably make a more lasting im-
pression on the rising genera-
tion than education does.”
Soviet Weakness
Signs of trouble in the Soviet
scheme of things noted by Lon-
don “Time and Tide’’ and sup-
porting President Eisenhower’s
statement that unrest appears
to be “spreading like wildfire”
behind the Iron Curtain:
“When Stalin died last March
those Westerners who knew most
about the Soviet Union agreed
that some time must elapse be-
fore the effect of the dictator’s
disappearance began to make
itself apparent. It seems that
we may now be beginning to
see that effect.
“In Czechoslovakia men have
recently been shot down for re-
fusing to work at the inhuman
rate demanded by their slave-
drivers. There has been rioting
in the coalfields of Poland, dis-
affection in Hungary, and the
sudden surge of hatred from the
people most to be reckoned with
of all those who have fallen
under Soviet rule [i.e., the East
Germans].
“These are not signs of
Russian strength. All over the
great ill-nourished body, which
is the Soviet Union and her sub-
ject States in Europe, the ulcers
have begun to break out and
the corruption which lay within
that monstrous system is becom-
ing manifest.”
In common with “Time and
Tide” and many other onlookers,
“U.S. News and World Report
reads the current signs, includ-
ing the liquidating of Beria, as
indicating that the Soviet system
is “basically weak” and “can be
resisted”:
“Maybe it can be made to
collapse, ff the Western Allies
play their cards right. Libera-
tion of Soviet satellites may be
feasible, after all. War will be
very risky for Russia now.
Satellites can’t be relied on.”
Taking a more sweeping view,
London “Observer” notes that
in the past three or four months
“the cold-war fronts have rapidly
begun to disintegrate —in
Europe even more dramatically
than in Asia —and both Russia
and ffie West face a radically
changed situation.”
It sees the breaking-up process
just as evident on the Western
as on the Russian side:
“In Eastern Germany and
Czechoslovakia there has been
open revolt, and the Russian
satellite system in Europe is
showing unmistakable signs of
cracking up. But it would be


sheer self-delusion to ignore the
fact that similar signs are
accumulating also on the
Western side of the Curtain.
The chances of ratification of the
European Defence Community
in France are now almost nil, as
far as one can see ahead ; rela-
tions between France and West
Germany have worsened
ominously even during the past
week; anti-Americanism in
France and Italy has become
virulent; and opinion in West
Germany is rapidly veering from
Western integration towards
German reunion
“It has become clear in the
last few months that there is a
wish in Europe—both West and
East—to break the ‘mould of the
cold war,’ and to return, for
better or worse, to something
like the former national pattern.
“The place where the issue is
likely to come to a head is
Germany. The reunion of the
two Germanys through nation-
wide free elections would make
the decisive break in the. Iron
Curtain ; and a peace treaty with
Germany would be the precon-
dition for beginning a new and
uncharted phase in world
politics. The Power which
makes the first clear, business-
like, and convincingly sincere
move to set this process rolling
will gain a great political
advantage. Why leave this
advantage to the Russians?”
U.S. Defence Shake-up
The Eisenhower Administra-
tion is preparing what “U.S.
News and World Report”
describes as a “drastic shake-
up” in the armed services of the
United States. “New leadership,
new ideas on the use of military
power, some cuts in expense and
probably a new organisation”
are all aimed at the double
objective of “more effective
defence at less cost.”
The cuts cut the ground from
under the critics of Britain’s
earlier move, which in general
America is now following.
A difference of Australian
importance is that one of
the results will be more
emphasis on the Pacific in
U.S. defence planning. Ad-
miral Radford, chairman of the
Joint Chiefs-of-Staff, has had
long experience in the Pacific,
and has very definite ideas on
“how to apply pressure on
enemy forces there through
blockades and other methods not
now being used.”
General Ridgway, as new
Chief-of-Staff of the Army, will
bring experience he gained as
top commander in the Far East
before he went to the top job in
Europe, and General Nathan
Twining, named as Air Force
Chief-of-Staff, served in the
Pacific as commander of the 13 th
and 20th Air Forces during
World War Two. Admiral
Robert B. Carney, as new Chief
of Naval Operations, was chief-
of-Staff to Admiral Halsey in
the Pacific.
In the armed forces themselves
there are signs of another shift
in emphasis. Under the new
plan the Air Force, although the
only branch to increase its num-
ber of combat units, will come
in for the most severe financial
cuts —it will, in fact, bear most
of the five-billion-dollar cut in
defence appropriations.
That is not to say that its pre-
sent size will be reduced ; simply
that it will have its build-up
from its present 103 wings limited
to 114 wings next year instead of
132 as previously planned ; and
its foreseeable goal cut to 120
wings instead of 143. (An
American wing varies from 75
aircraft for fighters to about 30
for bombers.)
Many of the present units will
be re-equipped with the latest
jets; the giant new jet-bomber
programme will go on unaltered;
and big overseas bases are to be
maintained and completed.
Under the new organisation,
and with an admiral as chair-
man of the Joint Chiefs-of-
Staff, the Navy is assured of
three “super-sized” carriers.
“The largely land-air war in
Korea has tended to obscure the
basic need for sea-power if a
less limited war breaks 0ut..,.
Water offers mobile bases for
the use of air-power, and a
means of access to the bulk of
the world’s materials. Through
sea-control, the U.S. holds the
power to supply itself and, at the
same time, to apply a process of
strangulation to any enemy de-
pendent upon the seas for
supplies.
“On that basis new carriers,
submarines and missile-ships are
certain to be added to the fleet.”
The Army is due for a cut of
6 per cent, (about 100,000 men)
in manpower, but the current
strength of its combat units will
be maintained. The intention is
to retain the present 20 divisions
and 18 regimental combat teams,
to increase the anti-aircraft
battalions from 113 to 117, and
to cut back only in overhead and
training units.
The foregoing changes, con-
cludes “U.S. News and World
Report,” assure “a saving of
[PEACE
“La Derniere Heure;" Brussels
BICYCLE BUILT FOR FOUR?
4.8 billion dollars next year
under the contemplated rate of
spending. It calls for a cutback
of 150,000 to 200,000 men in
uniformed manpower of the
armed services. It cuts the draft-
rate in half. But it envisages no
cut in combat units —land, air
or sea.”
N.Z. and Britain
New Zealand is generally
held to be the most British of
all the countries linked to the
Crown.
Without questioning this or
N.Z. loyalty to the Monarchy
and to British traditions, the
Wellington correspondent of
London “Economist” suggests
that all might not now be as well
as could be in N.Z.-British rela-
tions.
Complacent assumptions 'in
either country that the Dominion
will “automatically follow
British leadership and support
British policies” he considers
dangerous, and “many loyal
New Zealanders would like to
see this danger more clearly
recognised in Whitehall.”
In particular, British indus-
trialists (the correspondent sug-
gests) who have had the N.Z.
market virtually to themselves
because of the restrictions on
other imports (due to the dollar
shortage) “might well be sur-
prised and depressed at the move
there would be towards the
United States” if the restrictions
were lifted ; and, “Since the pre-
sent major objective of the
Commonwealth is to remove
these restrictions, British leaders
should give some thought to
maintaining their goodwill in the
Dominion.”
Although most New Zealand
farmers recognise the great value
of their guaranteed British mar-
kets (the correspondent adds),
they are far from satisfied with
some of the deals they have had
from the British Ministry of
Food. They fail to see why New
Zealand’s ability to produce
butter and meat more cheaply
than Britain’s foreign food-
suppliers should be used as an
excuse to pay it lower prices
than Denmark and Argentina.
They are also inclined to point
out that the post-war prices of
British imported goods show no
differentiation in favor of New
Zealand—on the contrary, Mr.
Holland himself has asserted
that some British manufacturers
load their export-prices to New
Zealand in order to cut their
prices at home and in more diffi-
cult markets.
Commenting that if this is not
checked, “sympathy and support
for Britain will deteriorate,” the
correspondent turns to other
causes of complaint, among
them British preoccupation with
Middle East defence:
“There is a growing feeling
that New Zealand’s position as a
Pacific country is not adequately
recognised in London. New
Zealanders as a whole are not
prepared to go as far as are
Australians in emphasising this,
but the belief that it should be
more clearly recognised is there.
Though it came as a surprise to
the New Zealand public to learn
that the Anzus pact excluded the
United Kingdom, this was
counterbalanced to some extent
by the opinion that the realities
force New Zealand to look more
to the United States for protec-
tion in the Pacific and that New
Zealand, like Australia, must be
prepared to accept the transfer of
obligations which this entails.”
Korean Comment
London “Punch,” under its
new editor turning to a new line
of serious comment on world
affairs, sums-up on Korea:
“F*om the world’s, the free
world’s, point of view the stale-
mate is, of course, a triumph. It
is fashionable to be cynical
about war and resistance to
aggression, to argue afterwards
that the effort and the bloodshed
were in vain, that both sides have
lost and nothing has been
gained. That war aims are never
achieved. But this time there is
quite clearly real achievement.
“In 1950 the United Nations’
objective (‘which is not, heaven
knows,’ as one wise observer put
it, ‘primarily to restore an un-
stable little State below the 38th
Parallel, but to serve notice on
the Communist half that aggres-
sion does not pay’) was both
limited and limitless. The
immediate aim was a negotiated
peace, and this, after a fearful
and hateful campaign, is now
within reach. The larger aim
was the moral rearmament of the
‘great alliance,’ and here there
can be no doubt that the mission
has succeeded.”
The “Punch” comment repre-
sents the consolation-seeking
view expressed by the majority
of responsible journals in the
U.S. as well as in Britain. Most,
that is, are happy enough to have
done with Korea. However,
there is a solid body of opinion
very doubtful about the prospect
opening up.
Of this view, “U.S. News and
World Report” can be given as
typical. Quoting a staff officer
of General Clark’s headquarters
as stating, “We do not know
what we are buying in Korea
except an end to shooting, and
we’re not even sure of that,” it
contends that “The Communists
can —and will—use a ceasefire to
freshen-up their troops, rebuild
North Korea’s Army, make it a
match for South Korea. That
will take time. Truce gives it to
them.”
An Allied build-up to match
“is out,” it adds, and what is
“more likely is pressure to ‘get
the boys home,’ cut down in
Korea, try to keep South
Koreans in check —and hope for
the best.
“The enemy can really put the
heat on now. He’s got the most
productive part of Korean
industry and power, can build it
up while arguing over peace
terms. Initiative is in his hands.
It’s to his advantage to negotiate,
procrastinate, keep things on
edge.
“U.S., meanwhile, has to watch
Korea, Formosa, Indo-China —
even Japan. And commanders
fear that, a year from now, the
U.S. position in Asia will be
weaker than ever.”
Editor David Lawrence, of the
same American publication, can
also be quoted as typical of the
far-from-happy.
“History,” he comments, “tells
us that every Munich, every
appeasement, every compromise
with evil men bent on aggression
has eventually led to bloody
conflict....
“The story of the Korean
truce-agreement is the story of
a Far Eastern Munich. Sub-
stitute the Republic of Korea for
Czechoslovakia as the expend-
able country, and the parallel
begins to emerge. Substitute
Korea for hapless Poland at the
Yalta Conference, and the
analogy is complete
“To say that Communist
aggression now has been repelled
is to fly in the face of the facts.
In June, 1950, the North Korean
army stood on the 38th Parallel.
Today the armies of Red China
—formally declared by the U.N.
to be an aggressor stand
900,000-strong on the battle-line
only a few miles north of the
38th Parallel, as they threaten the
security of South Korea.
“Not all the blame rests on
our [America’s] European allies,
though the British have favored
a ‘peace at any price’ because
they feared American military,
industrial and financial resources
would be diverted to Asia instead
of Europe.
“American politics played a
part in the fiasco. When Dwight
Eigenhower conducted his poli-
tical campaign in 1952 he
showed firmness toward the
Korean situation —he said he
would not agree to a truce with
dishonor, he would not appease.
Then came the election and
inauguration. The Administra-
tion’s advisers took a look at
Korea and a look at our
unbalanced Budget and a look
at the campaign pledge that had
been interpreted widely as a
promise to end the Korean war.
The decision evidently was made
to liquidate the whole affair
promptly and go along with the
British viewpoint.”
Various Voices
The Sheikh of Bahrein : “You
English are a wonderful people.
You make the sea rise and fall,
and also the land. But you can-
not control the rain.”
Mohammad Ali: “I have
made no secret that we in Paki-
stan feel that the Egyptians are
entitled to absolute sovereignty
through the whole of Egypt. I
would like to see a formula
which would give that
sovereignty and allow efficient
maintenance of the Canal
Zone.”
Austrian Chancellor Herr
Raab: “When one has the
Russian bear in the middle of
the Austrian garden there is
nothing to be gained by tweak-
ing his tail with high-sounding
speeches.”
Mayor of Ramsgate {Coun-
cillor E. G. Butcher ) .* “He’s
such a good trade-unionist that
he won’t sharpen a pencil. He
says it’s a carpenter’s job.”
General Marshall: “A gener-
ous understanding between the
American people and the
peoples of the British Common-
wealth is the most important
influence in the world today for
the peace we all long for and
pray for.”
General Ridgway: “The
efforts of the last two years
could all be wasted were we to
relax now. There are still many
gaps in our defence system
which must be filled without de-
lay if our homelands are to have
that reasonable minimum of
security which it has been Nato’s
primary purpose to achieve.”
President Eisenhower: “How
will we defeat Communism un-
less we know what it is? What
it teaches —why does it have
such an appeal for men. It’s
almost a religion, albeit one of
the nether regions.”
A ustralian High Commis-
sioner in London, Sir Thomas
White: “If Britain is to be re-
garded merely as a geographical
entity and not as the centre of a
great Commonwealth, then
surely the whole Commonwealth
concept falls down. If migra-
tion is to be seen as no more
than the strengthening of one
part of the Commonwealth at
the expense of another, then all
thoughts of balanced develop-
ment for the Commonwealth as
a whole must be put aside. The
truth, of course, is that the
strength of the Commonwealth
is Britain’s strength; the pros-
perity of the Commonwealth is
Britain’s prosperity.”
U.S. Deputy Defence Secre-
tary, Roger M. Keyes: “The
danger of global war at the
moment lies in a rash of badly-
calculated actions on the part of
the Soviets. International acci-
dents have happened before, and
they could occur again.”
British M.P., Anthony Nut-
ting : “I can understand that
some people should have a
reluctance about rearming Ger-
mans. But it really isn’t a ques-
tion any longer of our rearming
the Germans. The Germans are
already rearmed —the Germans
who live in the Eastern zone
and obey the orders of the
Russians. Are we to allow the
only Germans to be rearmed to
be those who are likely to be
on the other side and not ours
should war break out?”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Digger Spirit
For sheer undeserved misfortune, the
experiences of a small group of ex-
servicemen in their struggle to establish
a modest co-operative shipping service on
the Queensland coast would be difficult
to equal.
Led by an ex-R.A.N. engineer, the
adventurous band worked for four years
for finance to back their own slender
resources and eventually bought the hull
of the 200-ton wooden ship Moorah. In
18 months of hard work for no income
they rebuilt the ship, fitted new engines
and had it ready for sea late last year.
Their first trip was a chartered bomb-
dumping run for the R.A.A.F. The vessel
took in water, and had to be returned to
dry-dock for caulking.
In January the ship made the first of
what was to be a regular fortnightly
service to Rockhampton, and it began to
look as if the owners would get some
return for their money and effort. To
cut costs, the crew, all members of the
co-operative and therefore non-unionists,
planned to work the ship themselves and
save handling charges. But this did not
suit the wharfies, who promptly went on
strike, despite the fact that they already
had more work than they could handle.
The transport-workers came out, too,
refusing to move the cargo out of the
sheds unless it was unloaded by wharfies.
After a costly hold-up the ship’s execu-
tives were forced to agree to the demands
of the wharfies and so they faced another
period of slender returns. Some con-
signors withdrew their cargo when they
heard that wharfies were going to work
the ship, and insurance-rates soared.
On the next trip the ship found itself
in the middle of a cyclone with a defec-
tive radio, and was unable to ask for
assistance or obtain weather reports. But
the crew stuck to their jobs and the ship
arrived safely a few days overdue. When
the hatches were removed it was found
that water had entered the hold and had
damaged some cargo. There wr c mso
evidence of pilfering. On the n m trip
it was found when the ship . reached
Rockhampton that wharfies had lad
a real day out and a sizeable quantity of
cargo had been pilfered.
A request to the wharfies to allow the
crew to work the ship because the venture
was facing financial disaster met with a
refusal and a demand for handrails on
the gangway and other trivial items for
the benefit of the watersiders. Winch-
men continually fused the ship’s electrical
system by misusing the electric winches,
and there were several breakdowns —
welcomed by the wharfies but costly for
“ Good-bye , Sherpa Tensing —see
you tonight .”
the ship. The wharfies insisted on a 17-
man gang to work the ship, but only six
could be seen working at a time, and the
discharging and loading took three days
or more when the crew had done the job
on the first occasion in a day and a half.
The public rallied behind the ex-
servicemen and the sheds in Brisbane
were full of cargo, but the expensive
waterside gangs had robbed the cargo of
most of its profit. Undaunted, the com-
pany carried on, but on the fifth trip the
vessel ran aground in the Fitzroy River,
badly damaging the keel and hull. The
ship was in dock for three months being
repaired. Recently it returned to the
Rockhampton run, its ex-servicemen
owners dismayed but still courageously
determined to carry on in the face of
colossal expenses and diminishing capital.
It was noteworthy that a Queensland
Labor Government stood idly by while
the Red-riddled wharfies were holding the
ship—an inspiring example of free enter-
prise—to ransom, at a time when Rock-
hampton merchants were clamoring for a
regular shipping service which the
ex-servicemen offered them.— Sparkes
(Q-).
The Budget
They call it “budgeting,” and here’s
how it works. First, budget for a surplus,
of about half a million. Second, when
revenue proves to have been greatly
underestimated —say by £2B million —
arrange further spendings, so that instead
of a surplus of about that amount you
finish up only £l3 million on the right
side. Third, announce that this result is,
in part, due to “rigorous scrutiny of ex-
penditure throughout the year,”
Customs revenue, excise, income tax
and miscellaneous revenue were all
much in excess of the estimates,
but it is satisfactory to be assured
that “other items” of revenue
approximated Budget figures. One
wonders what those other items
could possibly have been.
As for that “rigorous scrutiny
of expenditure”: Every day one
reads in the Press of civil ser-
vants being posted here, there and
everywhere—all over the globe
in fact. What do these people have to
do in the various high-sounding posts to
which they are allotted? For instance,
a q#w civil air attache has just gone to
Washington, accompanied by wife and
family. Another is off to London, as
civil aviation liaison-officer, at the
High Commissioner’s office there.
Maybe there is real work to be done
in those jobs, but the taxpayer might be
pardoned for wondering. My own notion
is that all these overseas jobs are being
vastly overdone in all Federal depart-
ments.
What a day it will be when there is
real rigorous scrutiny of Government ex-
penditure ! — Ceg (Vic.).
Canada and Australia
Those one-sided comparisons between
Australia and Canada (B. 8/7/’53) are
far from just.
As early as 1534 the Frenchman
Jacques Cartier discovered the St.
Lawrence and penetrated beyond the site
of the future city of Quebec. Although
his subsequent attempts at settlement
failed, valuable exploratory work was
done. In 1604 a settlement was estab-
lished and colonising began, backed by
the powerful French.
Samuel de Champlain, a wise and re-
sourceful man, guided the
settlers through many diffi-
culties and proved one of the
greatest colonising leaders of
all time. Four years later
(1608), he founded the city
of Quebec and in 1611 estab-
lished Montreal. The French
occupied Canada for 159 years
until the peace treaty of
1763 gave the country to
England. At that time the
presence of large armed forces
sent food-production ahead
rapidly and factories were
built and new districts opened
up.
Thus, before the arrival of
the first fleet in Australia in
1788, two powerful nations
had put great resources and
many people into the develop-
ment of Canada. Under such
circumstances it is foolish
to contend that Australia’s
population should be much
closer to that of Canada.
Moreover, the geographical position of
the two countries favors Canada con-
siderably in its proximity to Europe, the
source of migrants.
Despite all the development in indus-
try, agriculture and commerce in Canada
it has nothing to compare with the re-
markable development of Australian
woolgrowing and its supremacy in world
markets.
With an advantage of 184 years of
settlement, Canada has but six million
more people than Australia. In less than
that time —from 1788 to 1953, just 165
years—we have attained a population of
almost nine millions despite our isola-
tion from Europe and lack of oil, and
without a powerful white neighbor to
bolster financial and industrial develop-
ment. — Ann (N.S.W.).
Menial Hospitals
That article (B. 1/7/’53) reminded me,
by contrast, of a visit I paid to a great
lunatic asylum in Scotland 50 years ago.
It was in a farming district and could
have been mistaken for a royal palace.
The ornamental gates were wide open,
and I passed through unchallenged.
On the spacious lawns groups of
patients were playing cricket and other
games, aided and abetted by smiling
warders who alone wore any class of
uniform, and whose jobs depended on
their ability as sportsmasters and
musicians.
Inside the huge building the star ex-
hibit was a magnificent hall, reserved for
the weekly dances, frequent concerts and
“Toot me, Would y'?”
other forms of public entertainment. The
music was provided by the warders.
Dramatic and variety programmes were
organised by volunteers from outside.
Next came the dormitories, each con-
taining about 20 beds. After lights-out
one warder kept vigil in each room. If
a patient became unruly the warder
called on a few of the other patients to
control the erring one and coax him back
to his cot. This plan was usually success-
ful because each patient was encouraged
to regard himself as responsible for the
welfare of all his mates and to look
upon the warders as guides, philosophers
and friends.
The institution was organised as a
mixed farm and was almost self-support-
ing, the inmates being employed accord-
ing to their trades, skills and mental or
physical abilities.
That was before psychoanalysis or
shock treatment was invented. The
superintendent ministered to minds
diseased by prescribing a compound of
security, comfort, music, social activity,
healthful exercise and kindness. His
asylum was a health resort in which stone
walls and iron bars were not a prison
but a protection.
And in thousands of cases the curative
results justified the unorthodox but
humane means. — Jock (S.A.).
From London
This visit to London has changed my
outlook about a lot of things. One of
the first things I noticed was the cheerful
attitude of the English, with all their
hardships, as against the constant
grumblings of Australians, who don’t
know how well off they are. Conditions
in Australia for average people far sur-
pass anything here.
I have been amazed at the price of
things here. Food, fares, cinemas, every-
thing, are as high as at home, where, with
better wages, we have money to save.
That’s quite impossible here. I expected
a much lower cost of living. In Aus-
tralia I had heard so often: “But in
England one can do so much more on
the money, everything’s so cheap.” What
rot!
I’ve never seen anything like the
terrible congestion, with millions of
people cramming on the tubes to and
from work, and queuing for everything.
I don’t know how a married man exists
and keeps a family on the money here.
I’d say Australia every time for married
people. But for a single person England
opens up new fields; there is so much to
see and do. I’ve had no trouble with
jobs. They’re easy to get for steno-
graphers and the like, and there are plenty
of others.
London can be fascinating—to walk
down St. Martin’s-lane past all the
theatres and the bright lights late at night,
to feel the exciting atmosphere of theatre
and to see famous actors. Or to walk
down Piccadilly— at night a blaze of
neon advertisements and theatre-lights.
The Coronation festivities and spec-
tacular decorations were wonderful. I’m
glad I was here for it. Every building
and every street was bedecked with
elaborate ornamentation, and at night
it was a fairyland of light. They are
being taken down now, down the Mall
towards Buckingham Palace, where huge
arches of golden crowns were erected.
I saw the Coronation procession; it
was wonderful, and one could not fail
that day to feel the significance of the
occasion, I couldn’t help feeling the
emotion that surged over the crowds so
obviously proud of their lovely Queen.
I felt proud to be British, and the whole
thing—pomp, color and magnificence-
moved me close to tears. I have never
seen anything like the loyalty and the
happiness of the people. It was on every-
one’s lips ; nothing else mattered. I saw
the Queen, the Duke of Edinburgh,
Princess Margaret, the Queen Mother,
Dukes of Kent and Gloucester. Tfie
Duchess of Kent is beautiful.
The effect of the Coronation on one’s
emotions, when on the spot, was tre-
mendous, and even though I was soaked
in the pouring rain, it was worth it—
Nada Jack (London).
Compulsory Unionism
The stock arguments of advocates of
compulsory trade-unionism are: (1) If
compulsory military service is right why
not compulsory unionism? ; and (2) the
unions win benefits for all workers—all
should therefore be members.
The first argument is puerile. A
serviceman serves his country; a union
is a private organisation, free to engage
in controversial political activities and to
use its funds for a variety of purposes
that have nothing to do with the defence
of employees’ interests before the Arbitra-
tion Courts.
If, because of their Arbitration Court
work, unions should enjoy the right of
compulsory membership, surely other
organisations which champion the in-
terests of various sections of the com-
munity should be similarly privileged.
Parents and citizens’ associations, muni-
cipal progress associations, chambers ot
commerce, employers’ associations, the
taxpayers’ associations, the parks and
playgrounds movement, the N.R.M.A.,
and a host of other bodies work tor
different groups every whit as hard as the
unions do for employees. Most of the
concessions they gain are enjoyed by
many who make no contribution to their
funds. Unlike the unions, too, they have
no political affiliations.
Some of the unions whose officials are
keenest on compulsory unionism have
but a moderate membership. The Clerk s
Union, for instance, would increase its
membership from about 10,000 to about
80,000 as a result of compulsory unionism.
If the unions in question are conducts
on democratic lines one would think tha
the present officials would be shaking
in their shoes for fear that they would be
ejected from office by the mass of resent-
ful regimented newcomers.— Cunedda
(N.S.W.).


V '■
Mim
■: iMs&HiS
Wmmwm
ww
mm
..
11
/S
A
t-m
: ft
MM
■ • ?
m
MBSSB&
m&mm
m
fJKWih
wmmumwi
■ I
;<:•;
WMm
ini
,■ . ■■ : 1 ■ ’ ■
swiiiWH
will
wmmm
m
£v' :
H
ill
m i
ii
«»i
■HUM
lliil
m
4MiM«
g-S 'Sj, v
■■Hi
m
416
Wl
M
ITD
with the queei in their near-
nakedness and rich Centralian
odor.
All fhat past is gone. Bond’s
tours, Tuit’s tours, Ward’s road-
trains. Darky Rowe’s goldfield
at the Tennant, motor-traffic
everywhere, schools on holiday,
and Heaven knows what beside,
have turned the O.T. line into
something prosaic. There is even
competition from radio—and
from Queensland
One cannot help wondering
what Charles Todd would have
thought if he could have dipped
into the future far as human eyes
could see and beheld a battalion
of buck Carolinians, in U.S.
uniforms, black as the ace of
spades, rolling out the miles of
line which was built from
Queensland in the war years
across the Barkly Tableland,
their power-augers burrowing out
postholes at a mile-a-minute to
the musical negro adjuration:
“Come awn, Mis-terr Dirt!”
One feels glad that the little
man did not live to see the O.T.
as it is today. Only one man
remains, I think, to remember
what it was like near its begin-
ning—that is, if he has not passed
on in the past year or so;
“Wallaby” Holtze, aged 82 or
thereabouts, who was still func-
tioning at Powell Creek a year
or so ago. He had served the
O.T. line for 66 years as man
and boy. Many of his mates lie
along the line. Mt. Gillen, which
looks down on the Alice, is
named after one of them, an
inhabitant for a quarter of a
century.
The history of the O.T. may
be said to have ended on the
fateful morning of February 19
when the staff and families in the
Darwin terminus of the line, who
had been on duty day and night
since before the fall of Singa-
pore, were buried in their own
telegraph office by a Japanese
bomb.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Businesswoman, Sydney, wants self-
contained small furnished flat. North
side of Harbor preferred.—ss39.
To buy one Hamblin stereoscope
No. 650, second-hand. —5540.
Words of poem “Old John Bax”
by C. H. Souter.—ss4l.
L-
Information Sought
(1) In my district (Jamberoo,
N.S.W.) are red-spotted leeches. Are
they medicinal leeches ? (2) What is
the life-span of leeches ? t
(1) No. Our medicinal leech is five-
striped—incidentally, it is not the
same species as the true medicinal
leech of overseas. The Australian
Museum, Sydney, has no knowledge
of the leech you mention, but “it is
definitely not Hirudo quinquestuata
(our medicinal leech). It is frequently
found that red markings on animals
are a warning to other creatures of
harmful or poisonous qualities, so it
is possible that the Jamberoo leech
is poisonous.” (2) Not certain, but
probably several years.
* * * ♦
Who was considered to be the out-
standing contender for the British
heavyweight championship when Jem
Mace held that title?
Tom King was regarded as Jem
Mace’s greatest rival. Mace defeated
him in 1862, bpt King k.o.’d Mace
in round 21 on November 26, 1863.
King thus won the belt, but was
forced to relinquish it for refusing
to meet Mace again. , King also
defeated American John C. Heenan
in 24 rounds on December 10, 1863.
On retiring from the ring he won
many races on the Thames as an
oarsman. He afterwards amassed a
fortune betting on the Turf, and,
when he died in 1888, left an estate
valued at £60,000.
* * * *
Who were the humanists of the
Renaissance period, and why were
they so-called?
The humanists were the scholars
who brought back into vogue the
Greek and Roman classics, which
after the fall of those civilisations
had till then been neglected. (Often
much labor and research went to the
finding of the old manuscripts and
to their translation.) The humanists
were so named because they turned
back to the human (or lay) aspects
of life, as represented by these classics,
from preoccupation with the sacred
and divine. Humanism first developed
in Italy, where Cicero was again
honored as philosopher and statesman
and Virgil as prophet and poet.
* * * .*
How is sgraffito pottery decoration
done ?
The article is formed of clay of
some definite color and dipped into
a bath of some other color until an
even coating has been deposited.
When dry, further coats of various
tints are applied one above the other
as required. The design is then drawn
on it, and pieces are cut through the
different layers to reveal the colors
underneath, in whatever arrangement
has been decided on.
■ * * * *
Dale and brief account of the Cler-
mont gold robbery of last century?
The gold from the Clermont gold-
field was customarily consigned, under
police guard, to Rockhampton, the
escort returning with an equivalent
value in notes and bullion. Near the
end of October, 1867, Inspector John
Thomas Griffin, who had been police
magistrate, gold commissioner and
inspector of police at Clermont,
decided to accompany the escort on
its return. (In Sept., 1867, a meet-
ing of Clermont citizens, presided
over by the mayor, asked that Griffin
be removed from the post of police
magistrate because of “inefficient and
unsatisfactory discharge of his duties.”
He was then transferred to Rock-
hampton. Griffin was, too, a
gambler with extravagant tastes.)
Some of his activities aroused the
suspicions of Sgt. Julian, who was
in charge of the escort; after a
couple of false starts from Rock-
hampton, Griffin suspended Julian
and proceeded with two troopers,
Power and Cahill. Several days later
the troopers’ bodies were found at
Mackenzie River crossing, shot
through the head (it was later estab-
lished that they had been poisoned
by strychnine first). Griffin was
arrested at the scene of the crime by
Sub-inspector Elliott. His trial began
on March 16, 1868, and, though main-
taining his innocence, he was found
guilty and hanged June 1, 1868.
After the trial he confessed to two
warders that he had been in financial
difficulties, and disclosed where he
had hidden the missing money. This
tale of treachery, this case of watch-
dog turning wolf, is fortunately with-
out parallel in the police records of
Queensland or any other State.
* * * *
Who was Grinling Gibbons, and
for what was he famous ?
He was a celebrated wood-carver,
born in 1648, and is said to have
served an apprenticeship to William
Etty, the architect who turned
painter. Gibbons was discovered by
Evelyn, the diarist, who introduced
him to Charles II and Wren. He
carved chimney-pieces for the Queen’s
chamber, the King’s drawing-room,
the chapel and the halls at Windsor
Castle, and the choir-stalls, organ-
cases and screens at St. Paul’s
Cathedral.
* * * *
What is the International Bank ?
What is its purpose?
The International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development was estab-
lished Dec. 27, 1945, when 28 nations
signed the articles of agreement
drawn up at the Bretton Woods
conference (July, 1944). Its purposes
are to assist in the development of
the economies of member-nations by
making loans directly and by promot-
ing private foreign investment; to
promote balanced growth of inter-
national trade; and to maintain
equilibrium in balance-of-payments.
4i * * *
What is a pundit?
A learned man or teacher, particu-
larly one skilled in Sanskrit and
Hindu law, religion and philosophy.
In India before the institution of the
High Courts in 1862 there was a law
officer styled the Pundit of the
Supreme Court, who advised the
English judges on points of Hindu
law. The term is frequently applied
derisively to learned persons and to
those who claim the right by long
experience to lay down the law or
dictate principles of conduct.
* * * *
(1) Some facts about the Australian
Legion of Ex-Servicemen and Women ?
(2) Is it open to ex-soldiers not
returned soldiers?
(1) Incorporated in 1944, it is a
Commonwealth-wide organisation of
former members of the forces and the
merchant-navy. Its objects are (a) to
foster a spirit of loyalty to Queen,
Empire and Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia ; ( b ) to encourage friendship
and comradeship between ex-service-
men; (c) to adopt lawful means of
obtaining benefits for ex-servicemen
in repatriation, employment, etc. It
is represented on the Services Can-
teens Trust Fund, repatriation boards
and tribunals, and on other Govern-
ment agencies associated with the
welfare of ex-servicemen and -women.
In addition it maintains social-service
bureaux through which needy per-
sonnel may obtain advice and assist-
ance on housing, war-pensions, land-
settlement, etc. (2) Yes; all persons
who served in the armed forces
irrespective of place of service are
admitted to membership, also those
serving in peace-time for a period of
not less than 12 months.
Brief Answers
J.M.G.: Whale-solubles is a thick
brown liquid condensed from the
residue, extracted in the process of
the manufacture of whale-oil. Average
samples of whale-solubles contain
50 p.c. crude protein and are used
as a protein supplement in rations,
for poultry. It is available from
Messrs. Colquhoun and Nichols Pty.,
Ltd., or C. P. Kigler of Sydney. As
far as is known, whale solubles are
not fed to sheep. As a source of
protein it is more expensive than meat-
meal or linseedmeal, and palatability
may also be a limited factor
M.O’D.: Guelph was the surname of
the British Royal Family of the House
of Hanover. It was superseded in
1917, during the First World War,
by Windsor L.M.A.; J. J-
Hardie’s Pastoral Symphony was re-
viewed in The Bulletin of October
4, 1939....J.C.: The by-election on
November 29, 1952, for the N.S.W.
seat of Werriwa in the House of
Representatives resulted: E. G. Whit-
lam (Labor), 32,561; J. R. Griffith
(Liberal), 15,706 F.D.: Britain’s
first atomic weapon was detonated at
Monte Bello Islands, off the north-
west coast of Australia, on October 3,
1952.. ..R.W.: (1) “She [the Roman
Catholic Church] may still exist in
undiminished vigor when some
traveller from New Zealand shall, in
the midst of a vast solitude, take his
stand on a broken arch of London
Bridge to sketch the ruins of St.
Paul’s.” (2) Lord Macaulay, in his
essay On Von Ranke’s History of
the Popes... .E.C.F.: Any fine
kitchen abrading - powder should
remove the marks, especially if
moistened with kerosene and washed
off with hot soapy water; or rub
with a smooth cork dipped in kero-
sene or olive-oil. If the stain has
penetrated old enamel, it is almost
impossible to remove it. Put new
washers on taps frequently M.K.:
Fees of the Bread and Cheese Club,
Melbourne, are: Entrance, 10s. 6d.;
metropolitan members, £2 25.;
country, inter-State and overseas mem-
bers, 15s F.N.: A concessional
deduction may be claimed in respect
of medical expenses paid in respect
of any child of the taxpayer under
21 years of age—maximum amount
allowable £lOO F.J.J.: Monsieur
Beaucaire was a novel of 18th-century
Bath (England), by Booth Tarkington,
published in 1900, concerned with the
adventures of Philippe de Valois,
cousin of Louis XV, who mas-
querades as a barber in the suite of
the Marquis de Mirepois... .G.H.M.:
“The Lady of the Lamp” was the
name given to Florence Nightingale
in allusion to her visits at night to
the hospital wards during the
Crimean War J.G.: Corinthian, in
one sense, means “a fashionable
man-about-town; a man of means,
given to sport, who drives his own
horse, sails his own yacht, etc.; a
gay, licentious person” R.8.A.:
The Concise Oxford Atlas should suit
your requirements... .J.McM.L.: Sir
C. V. Boys (1855-1944) was a British
scientist whose main work was prob-
ably the designing of the apparatus
which determines the price of a cubic
foot of gas. He also designed an
apparatus to photograph lightning-
flashes in order to fix their speed,
and an apparatus by which he deter-
mined the mass of the earth, sun and
other heavenly bodies.... Sid Y.:
Nitrogen-peroxide is a poisonous
brown gas which forms a liquid whose
boiling-point is about 72deg. F. In
the gaseous state it is known as
“nitrous fumes,” and is given off
when nitric-acid attacks a metal. In
electric-welding it is formed from the
gases of the air, and can be fatal
to workers not adequately protected.
J.R.W.: The Belgian Government
in 1944 gave the U.S.A. a monopoly
right to mine uranium in the Belgian
Congo. In return Belgium was
granted a loan of $15.5 million in
1951 to develop the Congo K.S.:
Against Worcestershire Bradman
made 236 (in 1930), 206 (1934), 258
(1938) and 107 (1948)... .J.W.; Ac-
cording to Astronomy for Everyman,
the pqssibility of the Earth’s colliding
with a comet or a minor planet is
“extremely remote.” A collision with
a star or major planet is next to
impossible J.L.F.: (1) “Thing”
(or “ting”) is Scandinavian for a
judicial or legislative body. It is
often used in compounds, such as
Storthing, Althing. (2) Geology is
the science of the structure of the
earth, the successive changes it has
undergone and the causes producing
those changes. The suffix “geo” in
such words as “geology,” “geometry,”
etc., is ancient Greek for “earth.
“Geology” derives from words mean-
ing literally “study of the earth.”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
,will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
L.S.T.: It’s a fine sketch, but it
doesn’t make a story R.D.: Some-
thing there, but you don’t bring it
out M. 8.: Maybe it should have
happened, but who’d believe it?... •
0.P.D.: It would be better to marry
the girl than to write any more poetry.
Bellerive: We are glad that it
turned up:—
Found in the Ruins.
Neath clods of plaster
Piled high and thick,
Found in good order
Was my walking stick.
Weak in the legs,
My friend and guide,
I did gladly welcome
Again by my side.
Attacked by a dog in
A street one day,
My walking stick kept
The brute at bay.
A.N.: “What can I do with
‘The Old Bluegum’ if you don’t
want it?.” Chop it down S.E.R.:
“Six Pink Pigs” scampering home by
post D.O’R.: Epigrams need a
fine point. Yours have about as
much point as a pancake William
Tell: Keep it a dark secret between
you and your muse J. 8.: Not
quite G.M.L.: It’s a good idea,
but needs a more airy treatment
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
H.H.: Muddled....R.E.G.: Not for
us J.D.W.: Too much talk
8.D.: Much too long H.M.: You
say the same thing over and over
again in the hope it will turn funny.
M.E.I.: The punch-line was a
soft slap D.F.: It’s a painful thing
to see a strong man giggle
Yeah, we listen to Bentley, t 00....
M.C.: All the way from England,
and all the way back 1.V.R.H.:
Maybe it’s beautiful to be poor but
happy—but is anyone?


You CAN take it with you:
p
A
m
1
V., .-
88 :
■■
m
MOBILCO
BO ONE MAN CHAIN SAW
Dependable 5 b.h.p. engine packs the power you need to rfell and cross-cut
hard Australian timbers all day long. This machine is so light, only 38 lbs.,
that it becomes part of you . . . goes anywhere you can go to cut the timber
you want, wherever it grows. You can buy for cash or on terms and you can
get a machine straight away if you place your order promptly.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES .... BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
AGENTS ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
In steep, rough, dense country
MOBILCO CHAIN SAW can be carried
and operated without effort.
FEUS CLOSE TO THE GROUND
AND CROSS-CUTS ON THE SPOT
Chemistry Serving Primary Industry
V>J
M
KED
NO
DDT DIP
SPRAYING COMPOUND
NO LICE
HUPIP
THE PERFECT, MODERN, DUAL-PURPOSE DDT
SHEEP DIP AND JETTING COMPOUND
(Kills ked and lice prevents blowfly strike)
Manufactured by Australia's largest producers of DDT.
TAUBMANS CHEMICALS ¥ PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Pulpy-kidney
“X.M.”: Many farmers can-
not identify pulpy-kidney. Not
so long ago sheep were believed
to be stricken with “stinkwort-
poisoning” about the time of the
autumn rains. This was supposed
to be due to their eating the
young tops of the stink wort-
weed. Deaths were sudden and
decomposition of the carcass
rapid. Post-mortem examina-
tion would show barbed hairs
of the stinkwort embedded in
the bowel-wall.
Later research proved “stink-
wort-poisoning” to be pulpy-
kidney. Grazing on the weed
may have induced the disease in
the same way as grazing on other
lush fodder is supposed to induce
it. *
Today the weed is not rated
poisonous, but its disagreeable
smell will flavor milk, cream
and even mutton if sheep feed on
it for any time. Cows should
be kept off badly-infested pas-
tures for four hours before
milking-time.
Tree Education
“J.C.”: Outside Dubbo
(N.S.W.) E. L. Regan, forestry-
officer, has planned a State forest
which, when it begins to come
to maturity, will provide far-
mers with exact facts as to what
trees will do for them.
Running parallel to the main
highway, the forest will cover
680 acres and include an amenity
park of 60 acres in which native
trees suitable to the central-west
will be planted in plots. In one
plot will be grown the species
most suitable for wood-lots, in
another trees for windbreaks,
in others trees for fodder, shade,
timber and beautification. Some
plantings will illustrate which
trees should be grown on slopes
or on exposed positions.
Once the trees begin to
develop, the date of planting and
rate of growth will be listed
beside each plot. Thus the far-
mer will be able to see at a
glance which trees will suit his
purpose and how long it will be
before they begin to give him
effective service.
Some of the species chosen for
cultivation are eucalypts,
acacias, kurrajongs and other
fodder - trees, wilgas, native-
pines, etc. Two pines, Canary
and Aleppo, already proved the
best pines for western N.S.W.
conditions, will occupy a 95-acre
windbreak.
Elsewhere in the area absorp-
tion-banks and pasture-furrows
will demonstrate how erosion
may be forestalled and con-
trolled on sloping country.
Without Digging^
“Composto”: All of my
Adelaide - suburban vegetable -
and flower-beds are now covered
with a layer, up to 4in. deep, qf
dead weeds, leaves and seaweed.
To plant seeds or seedlings I pull
the mulch back and scratch up
the soil just as deep as is neces-
sary to do the planting or sow-
ing. As soon as the plants are
high enough I drag the mulch
up to them.
At first I expected the root-
vegetables to be a failure, but,
though the soil has not been
dug for three years, I’m getting
enormous tender roots, with
none of the kinks that the text-
books threaten will afflict the
carrots and parsnips of the
gardener who does not turn over
his soil at least the depth of a
fork before sowing.
Under this system the soil
keeps moist for at least three
times as long after watering as
does that in unmulched • beds ;
it is protected against changes of
temperature; the mulch keeps
the topsoil cool in summer and
warm in winter. There is no
caking of the surface, and no
run-off, as the water is soaked
up. The mulch blankets-out
weeds.
The underside of the layer of
mulch, which has to be topped-
up twice a year, is for ever rot-
ting-down, with the result that a
layer of humus forms on the
surface of the soil; the rich
nutriment that this contains is
continually carried down into
the soil by the action of rain,
watering and earthworms (which
flourish beneath the mulch).
Comparatively hot fowl-
manure can safely be scattered
on top of the mulch, as long as
it is kept a few inches or more
away from the actual plants; its
elements gradually percolate
down to the roots without over-
stimulation or burning.
As well, slugs and snails seem
to attack the plants far less on
mulched beds, even though they
seem to be far more numerous
than on unprotected beds. A
possible reason for this is that
slugs and snails are really
scavengers, and that on mulched
beds they have so much work
to do on dead and decomposing
vegetable material that they have
little time or need for a green
diet.
Whether the fact that the
plants in my garden have been
fairly disease-free since I began
mulch-gardening is due to the
mulch, to the soil not having
been disturbed, to the plants
being much healthier than when
grown under more orthodox
measures, or to some other fac-
tor, I wouldn’t know.
When growing potatoes ortho-
dox earthing-up is necessary—
drawing the mulch away first
“Th' country'd look pretty bare without th' tree."
and replacing it afterwards —as
enough light filters down through
the mulch to green most of the
tubers that form above the actual
ground-level.
If seaweed is obtainable it
makes thy best mulch from the
point of view of appearance
and handling; all plants seem
to thrive on it except straw-
berries. With a seaweed-mulch
I’ve gathered strawberries six
weeks earlier than usual and
with a far larger first crop than
in other years ; just as the second
crop was coming on, however,
most of the fruit and leaves
seemed to burn off and a num-
ber of the plants died.
Pruning Roses
“Billjim”: Produce six main
arms. Cut back to three to six
buds, thus causing the arm to
divide into two or three shoots.
This may already have been
achieved with older plants.
At the next winter’s pruning
these two or three shoots
should be again cut back to
secure five or six main arms.
If one shoot is more vigorous
than the rest it may be divided
into three and an extra-small
one not divided at all, but just
cut back.
In the third pruning cut these
five or six main arms back to
6in. or 12in. long in order to
produce a broad, well-spaced
framework. From each of these
two main arms save two shoots
in the next winter’s pruning and
cut back so as to provide two
more shoots in the following
season. This process of dividing
into two may go on as long as
the vigor of the plant is main-
tained. If there is any sign of
weakening allow only one shoot
to grow on each arm.
A good general rule is to cut
back severely for a few good
blossoms, cut hard for a
moderate number of fairly good
blossoms, and cut lightest for a
big show of small flowers.
Pasture Management
“Kiwi”: Paddocks top-dressed
and spelled over May and June
in New Zealand provide grazing
during August and early Sep-
tember—usually a hard period
for feed.
In N.Z. application of nitro-
gen to non-dressed pastures in
July will speed-up growth if the
weather is not too cold. Best
results come when the pastures
are 2in. to Sin. high and con-
tain a fair amount of rye-grass.
Addition of phosphate makes for
still greater improvement.
N. A. Clarke, an expert, says
if new pastures on dairy-farms,
spring- or autumn-sown, are
allowed to grow longer than Sin.
or 6in. before the clover is well
established the quicker-growing
grasses will smother the clover.
Stock should be used to eat down
the paddocks quickly and evenly.
Chain-harrowing after grazing
spreads the droppings.
New pastures in N.Z. respond
best to potash applied during
spring or autumn. Lime can be
given at any time.
Super, and Starch
“Hortus”: Super, is prepared
from phosphatic-rocks. The
phosphoric-acid is in these rocks
in the form of tri-calcic phos-
phate, which is insoluble in
water. As such, it would be
practically useless as plant-
food. When diluted sulphuric-
acid is added to ground rock
phosphate part of the lime is
taken away from the latter and
mono-calcic phosphate is formed.
This is soluble in water and is
known as superphosphate.
Unfortunately, a certain pro-
portion of the original tri-calcic
phosphate escapes the action of
the acid. This causes mono-
calcic and tri-calcic reaction,
producing an intermediate phos-
phate known as di-calcic. This
is insoluble in water but soluble
in very dilute acid solution.
Super, can at once be ab-
sorbed by seeds and plants, as


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
df
KYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may he.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
Ytt
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU cdn instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
DISTRIBUTORS: ■———
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle
St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: H. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN; C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank
Chambers, Raffles Place.
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
761 bs.
m<s
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers’
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
.
. . BUT UE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAKREKE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3v), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
MIS
Circular Charts lor ail type*
of Recording Instrument*
for any class o» Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS » Specialty
accuracy -4 Ui «.
O'SDLLI YAN%U/.
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
a
The FINEST j
cook»« weV,orlß
r;
'■ ■ -
4
Provide
r..
P,P 'HB
water service
Cooking with the Aga is so clean, and cool,
and simple! In fact, the Aga will cook a
dinner for you all by itself, unwatched. Choose
the Model C. 8., and you will also have the
comfort of a splendid hot water service: ample
hot-water for all kitchen needs, and hot baths,
too! Economical fuel consumption is guaran-
teed and the hot water service is run from the
one small single fire. Life with Aga is so easy!
|the|
AGA
I COOKER I
10 YEARS GUARANTEE
The British-built Age is
guaranteed for ID years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. in 1841)
Australian Agents for the AGA
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES _ _ _ _ _ 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA ______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _ _ _ _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS _ _ _ MALLOCH BROS. Ltd., Peril!
SB
df
Delightful
Modern
CEILINGS
For beauty and permanency Wunderlich
Metal Ceilings are renowned. Use them
in your new home or to cover existing
stained or faulty ceilings. Supplies are
available.
Call at our Baptist St., Redfern Show-
rooms. Phone MX 2411, or write Wunder-
lich Limited, for details of designs and
prices.
M^^lsune/ef , AtcA
ETAI CEILINGS
BCAUTI Flit • PERMANENT • MOBtBN
it is water-soluble, but the di-
calcic phosphate takes longer.
However, plants can still receive
the benefits of the fertiliser, as
their root-hairs secrete acid
juices which dissolve the di-
calcic form.
When super, is applied to land
the next rain washes it down in
solution, and it becomes
thoroughly incorporated with
the soil. There is no danger
of soluble phosphate being
washed out of ordinary soils. It
is very improbable that super,
remains in the soil for any length
of time as super,, for in passing
down in solution it comes in
contact with lime particles (car-
bonate of lime), on which it is
precipitated (or rendered insol-
uble) as di-calcic phosphate. In
time it gradually unites with
more lime and gives tri-calcic
phosphate the form in' which it
had existed in the rock state.
By the second year the greater
part of the super, will have gone
right back. Hence a fresh appli-
cation of super, is practically
necessary. The presence of iron-
salts or those of alumina also
tends to produce this reversion,
and the soluble super, is
changed to a highly insoluble
iron- or aluminium-phosphate,
which crops can attack only
with great difficulty. By liming
this conversion may be delayed
and the useful period of the
super, is lengthened.
Now from the University of
Massachusetts (U.S.A.) we learn
that, if plain ordinary starch is
added to the soil at the same
time as an application of super.,
the full benefit of the fertiliser is
released for plant use. This
means that any tendency to be
converted to an insoluble tri-
calcic or iron-phosphate can be
checked by using starch. We
have yet’ to learn, though,
whether it would be cheaper to
use starch or apply more super.
My guess is that more super,
would be cheaper.
Stored Pasture
“My”: A growing practice in
some Victorian dairying districts
is to let pasture-growth carry
over from autumn to early spring
in closed paddocks.
The farmer either has his'
stock graze the selected pasture
heavily, or he clips it with a
mower to eliminate coarse, rank
growth. After either he then
harrows the land and closes it
to stock in the autumn.
The feed, growing slowly
through late autumn and winter,
is, in effect, stored until the early
spring, when sufficient freshly-
calved cows are ready to eat it.
Rice Land
“Impro”: It is an axiom in
irrigation farming that only the
best pasture justifies the cost of
water. But, for the sake of
immediate economy, some land
is allowed, after rice, to regen-
erate whatever pasture species
will come back to it naturally.
No comparative results are
available from local experiments
to determine the difference in
producing-capacity between such
natural and sown pastures after
rice. A field test made in
Louisiana (U.S.A.) showed that
a sown pasture consisting chiefly
of paspalum and white clover
gave seven times the production
of natural pasture.
Pasture Renovation
“Reno”: To maintain good
production a permanent pasture
requires top-dressing regularly
and renovation by cultivation
or ploughing. But comes the
time when the pasture becomes
too old, thin, and weedy to bene-
fit sufficiently from this treat-
ment. Then either cropping the
land or re-establishment of the
pasture is necessary to restore
productivity.
When pasture re-establishment
is being done large clumps of
old pasture interfere considerably
with the preparation of a good
seed-bed and many workings
become necessary. It is easier
if a grass-killing weedicide is
used to kill these large clumps.
Water-levels
“Remus”: Tell “Sunset” (B.
1/7/’53) that I have used the
water method for levelling
machine-beds 50ft. long, not to
an accuracy of several inches,
but to an accuracy of one-
thousandth of an inch. For such
work the water method is the
most accurate yet devised.
For Land Men
“C.S.”: Two Nuffield Foun-
dation travelling scholarships
are again available this year
for male and female farmers
over 25 and “not much over
35” for six months’ study in the
United Kingdom.
The foundation pays the
travelling expenses of the
scholar, makes him a living-
allowance, and will (if necessary)
help in looking after the farm
while he is away. An appli-
cant’s ability to communicate
his experience to other farmers
on his return will weigh in his
favor.
This year’s scholarships are
limited to South Australia, West
Australia and the Northern
Territory. Next year awards
will be offered in Victoria and
Tasmania. Awards were made
last year in New South Wales,
A.C.T. and Queensland.
Full particulars from tfye Aus-
tralian National University,
Canberra, A.C.T.
Coal for Cows
“Silen”: Research by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture has
indicated that a cow can eat
1001 b. of grass daily and drink
lOgal. to 15gal. of water. In the
bovine rumen there are 50 to 60
kinds of bacteria, all playing a
part in the breakdown of the
feed intake and body-assimila-
tion of the nutrients.
Some bacteria form proteins,
and this indicates that a cow can
form part of her protein needs
from ordinary diet.
If fed urea (a highly-nitro-
genous material made from coal,
water and air) hitherto-useless
fodder can be given for both
beef- and milk-production, cut-
ting out many of the highly-
priced oilmeals and concentrates
now added to standard rations.
Urea is regarded as the best
prospect as* an “extender” of
feed - supplies, making such
articles as corncobs quite usable.
Hints for the Farm
“Billjim”: Chemical dusts are
more dangerous to the user than
sprays because they are easily
wind-borne. To be effective they
should be applied to moist
foliage. Dusting is best done
in the early morning. Dusts
mixed with fertiliser should be
stored in airtight containers
away from other bags of fertiliser
or seed.
“Spes”: To make stiff paint-
brushes soft and pliable put
them in an old can and cover
tfce bristles with vinegar. Boil
for about 15 minutes.
“Billjim”; Don’t run a cir-
cular saw at too high a speed,
as it will cause cutting-edges of
the teeth to heat and lose their
keenness. Working stresses are
high, and in addition the cen-
trifugal force set up produces
stresses which exert a bursting
effect on the blade and could
cause it to fracture.
“Hormo”; One of the latest
discoveries in California is that
treatment of lemons with a
solution of 500 parts per million
of 2,4-D or 200 parts per mil-
lion of 2,4,5-T reduces decay
and delays the ageing of the
fruit in storage.
“Big Billy”: Effective dip to
deal with lice, red-mite or tick
in poultry is a D.D.T. 1 p.c.
watering suspension. Alterna-
tively nicotine-sulphate can be
applied to the perches at }oz.
per 100 ft. shortly before the
birds go to roost. Although the
fumes act as a delouser the
treatment may have to be re-
peated at monthly intervals.
Scaly leg-mite can be controlled
by scrubbing infected areas with
crude oil or by applying a one-
in-ten sulphur ointment after
the legs have been scrubbed
with soap and water. Disinfect
perches with tar oil.
“Sundowner”: Before using
compost sieve material through
a half-inch riddle and return
coarse parts to the heap for
further decomposition. Spread
fine material evenly on the bed
and fork in lightly.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
A new southern sunspot group has appeared and is
so placed that when it reaches its active position it should
support and possibly enhance the late July rain, which is
the precursor to the change of season. This ram should
mark the beginning of a very good season for all eastern
Australia north of the parallel of Sydney.
South of this, there is prospect of a good season at
least until the summer.


the crest and they couldn’t recall
passing it on the fairway after
they walked on. Jock Bruce and
his mates testified that they were
about to putt-out when a ball
came running on to the green and
went straight into the hole.
“The upshot of it was that
they at last agreed that the
impossible had happened and
that I had holed in one on a
five - hundred - and-eighty-seven-
yard hole. By this time the next
four had arrived at the green,
and they were told the story,
receiving it at first with disbelief,
but eventually being convinced
by the rest of us. I was con-
gratulated all round. The fellows
who had participated in the
incident seemed just as pleased
with my success as if they’d
done it themselves. ‘Fancy hav-
ing a world-record in the club,’
said Bruce. ‘Look here, George,
old man, you’ve made us famous.
Your name’ll be in all the
papers. Not only here, but
wherever golf is played. The
longest hple-in-one ever.’
“ ‘lt happened all right,’ said
Dawbarn. ‘As I see it, George
just happened to fluke the perfect
shot. Just for this once, he
managed to fluke perfect timing,
perfect balance and get his full
weight into the drive just at the
split-second it could do the most
good. Sooner or later a shot like
that had to come to someone.
Today it came to George.’
6 < N OW, that’s where I made
my mistake. I should
have been satisfied to take the
praise and leave it at that. But
I wasn’t content to let sleeping
dogs lie. My confounded
modesty, I suppose. T really
can’t take all the credit,’ I said.
“Next thing I found myself
telling them all about the
colonel, and how he’d as good
as promised me a hole-in-one.
You’d hardly believe the change
that came over those fellows.
One minute they Were all con-
gratulating me and skiting about
the fame I’d brought to Long-
carry Club; the next they were
making excuses and trying to
prove the whole thing was
impossible.
“ ‘Look here, George,’ said
Jock Bruce, T don’t doubt that
this is your ball, but come clean.
You hit it again after your first
drive, didn’t you?’
“I told him I hadn’t, and
Jonesy and the others had to
agree that I was telling th% truth
—but Jonesy seemed to be
wavering a bit about believing
the rest of it.
“ ‘l’m certain George only hit
his ball once,’ he said, ‘and we
saw Dawbarn jump out of the
way, back there on the crest.
And I’m certain we couldn’t find
the ball. As to what happened
to it after that, well . , . ’
“Bruce broke in again there.
‘Look, George, this ball doesn’t
have to be yours just because it’s
got blue dots. After all, there’s
plenty of Balding Spars about.
Someone else might’ve belted
this on to the green for a joke.’
“ ‘That’s the ball I hit from
the tee,’ I insisted.
“ ‘I know what happened,’ said
Smiler. ‘You remember that
crow that pinched your ball at
the twelfth? Well, if it happened
once it could happen again.
After your drive whizzed past
Dawbarn it must have come to
rest say twenty or thirty yards
beyond the hill, out of our sight.
Then I reckon a crow swooped
down and picked it up. The
crow flew on till it reached the
green, dropped the ball and it
rolled into the hole.’
“ ‘lf a crow dropped it,’ I put
in, ‘it wouldn’t have rolled into
the hole. Jock said the ball
came on to the green with plenty
of run.’
“ ‘Naturally,’ said Smiler.
‘After the crow dropped it. It
would travel for a while at the
same speed as the crow, same as
a bomb does after it leaves the
plane. That’s simple physics. If
the crow was flying fast when it
dropped it. The ball could easily
run thirty or forty yards.’
“Jack Roberts came into the
argument. T don’t think it makes
any difference,’ he said. ‘lf the
crow dropped the ball into the
hole George has still holed in
one.’
“The others howled him down
on this, quoting the rules to
prove that the ball would have
to be replaced.
6 4 TONES Y bought-in again
with a suggestion that
there weren’t two ’ crows at all;
that the ball in the hole was the
one the crow had pinched at the
twelfth.
* ‘What about the ball I did
hit at the eighteenth?’ I asked
him. ‘What became of that?’
“ ‘Oh, balls get lost in the
simplest places,’ he answered.
‘You’ll all admit that, won’t
you?’
“Even I had to admit that
fact, but I refused to admit that
mine had been lost. I persisted
that the ‘ball Jock Bruce got out
of the cup was the one I had hit
from the tee. By this time they
were all trying to laugh me out
of it.
“ ‘Hang it all, George,’ Daw-
barn appealed to me ; ‘you know
dam well you couldn’t hit a ball
five - hundred - and - eighty-seven
yards.- No one could.’
“ ‘Not on my own,’ I admitted,
‘but with Colonel Bogey to help
me there’s no knowing what I
could do.’
“They looked at each other
then and suggested I should
come and have a drink. I said
of course I’d have a drink. I’d
shout for the whole club. It was
my privilege, I’d holed out in
one.
“That was about the end of it.
No one would sign.my card to
verify the oner, and when I tried
to get Jonesy and the others to
support my claim with the com-
mittee they made excuses about
not being sure and so on. I
ordered drinks for everyone in
the clubhouse, but when I went
to pay the steward said ‘Sorry,
sir, but this round is on the presi-
dent.’ And, of course, if I
couldn’t convince them that day,
what chance did I have later?
“Well, that’s the lot. Like the
fairy stories, just as I told you.
I got my wish, but what good
did it do me?”
6 6'Y'OU at least have the satis-
faction of knowing you
did it,” I consoled him.
“I wonder,” said the sad-faced
man. He nodded towards
Charlie, still playing the poker-
machine. “Your friend’s wait-
ing for you,” he said.
“Join us in a beer?” I asked.
“No, thanks,” he replied
firmly. “I won’t drink in this
clubhouse till they allow me to
pay for the round of drinks I’m
entitled to pay for. Not till
then.”
Drinking with - Charlie
later, I asked him about the
old boy’s yam.
“Don’t know,” said Charlie.
“It was before my time, and
there’s not many fellows here
now that were playing that day.
Most of ’em just think old
George is crazy —just on that one
subject, of course. Some believe
one explanation, some another.
Perhaps the crow yarn is right;
perhaps one of the chaps picked
his ball up and planted it in the
hole for a joke. Old George
believes he did it all right. But
it’s too fantastic. Five-hundred-
and-eighty-seven yards! Hits
like that don’t happen.”
I looked over to where old
George had been sitting, but his
chair was empty. I glanced at
the Hole-in-One Board—and
shivered.
“Charlie,” I said, “how many
names are on that board?”
lie looked at me suspiciously,
“Five, of course,” he said
“Can’t you count?”
I counted them. Five was
right. It must have been a trick
of the light or something, but a
moment before I could have
sworn I saw a sixth name under-
neath Adams’s.
and was always impressed by his
quiet dignity and modesty, and
his ever-readiness to help a lame
dog over a barbed-wire fence.
He loved to dress well, and it
pained him once when Cecil
Maim good-naturedly expressed
surprise ’in an article that the
creator of Dad Rudd should
have appeared at a literary
gathering in a dinner-suit, “How
did he expect me to turn up?”
he snorted to me at the old
Bulletin office at 214 George-
street. “In moleskin trousers,
with a cabbage-tree hat and
blucher boots?” I don’t think
he ever quite forgave Cecil. I
know he wrote a three-foolscap-
page typed letter to a friend
expressing his indignation.
He had a great love for
horses, and for twenty years was
a well-known polo-player in
Queensland, Which reminds me
that he once wrote a poem about
a polo-match. The poem
appeared in the “Darling Downs
Gazette,” and concerned a polo-
match between Brisbane and
Toowoomba, in which the Bris-
bane team lost, eight goals to
nil. Titled “McNade of
Hodgson’s Run” it began:
A team of Brisbane polo men came
to Toowoomba town,
To meet the pick of the polo kings
and
Take Toowoomba down.
Asked once by The Bulletin
why he was not writing as much
as usual, he replied; “Am going
strong on polo, developing a
dangerous passion for the sport.”
And something of his attitude
towards life was expressed in the
concluding paragraph of the
letter: “Lord, give us plenty
sport, and keep us full and
merry, and never mind the
money! Poor Lawson and that
Hard-up Confession of his
nearly made me sad. Would like
to have him in a spring-cart with
the winkers off the horse, just to
shake the funeral services out of
his bright head.”
As an old admirer of “Steele
Rudd” —it must be more than
35 years ago since I read his
Selection stories when a boy—
I am delighted to hear that
Angus and Robertson propose
to reprint On Our Selection and
Our New Selection in one
volume, and that The Bulletin,
which first published the stories,
intends to print them again in its
columns.
One looks forward to meeting
Dad again—Dad and his
struggles with crops, his troubles
with the storekeepers, his
expedients for raising the wind,
his anxieties and his unquench-
able hopes. And Mother! How
many times had she to shake the
flour-bag to get enough to make
scones for the morning’s break-
fast? Yet, although the family
was much oftener in money-
trouble than out of it, health and
light hearts they shared as a
matter of course.
One remembers Joe. “Joe was
a naturalist. He spent a lot of
time —time that Dad considered
should have been employed cut-
ting burr or digging potatoes—in
earmarking bears or bandicoots,
and catching goannas and letting
them go without their tails, or
coupled in pairs with pieces of
greenhide. The paddock was full
of goannas in harness and slit-
eared bears. They belonged to
Joe.”
One’s heart warmed to Sal.
Though Sal never wore stock-
ings, except, perhaps, to a
funeral —“for the creek wasn’t
much of a place for sport”—she
was infinitely better off than
Miss Ribbone, the anaemic
schoolmistress, who couldn’t—
or wouldn’t eat pumpkin.
Then there was Kate. When
Kate was married everyone
thought she looked very nice-
“and orange blossoms! You’d
think she was an orange-tree with
a new bed-curtain thrown over
it.”
Thinking again of On Our
Selection a dozen or more stories
immediately come to mind,
There is the inimitable story of
“The Parson and the Scone,”
and the hilarious story of Dave’s
snakebite and the telling of the
training of Old Bess to win the
Overhaul Handicap. There is
the homely pathos of “Our First
Harvest” and “When the Wolf
Was at the Door”—that was
when Dan first left home—and
the simple artistry of that little
classic, “The Night We Watched
for Wallabies,” and the fun, and
swing and spirit of “One
Christmas” —a real Australian
story.
More than fifty years ago The
Bulletin said: “In Arthur
Davis, indeed, we'have the first
Australian humorist he takes
as a writer of humorous prose
the place which A. B. Paterson
holds as a writer of humorous
verse, and is even more racy of
the soii, Lawson’s is a saturnine
humor ; but Paterson and Davis
bubble with spontaneous fun,”
Present-day Bulletin readers
will now have the opportunity of
appreciating the hearty fun and
honest laughter which moved
their fathers and grandfathers to
read “Steele Rudd’s” stories as
fast as they appeared in print.
LINES OF
COMMUNICATION
March midnight: under
my window ledge
a cricket calls
or telephone.
Its mad, incessant
tinkle trembles
from black hydrangea
and pavement stone.
Chirr chirr chirr chirr
are you there? are you there?
In dark disdain
the Numbers drowse.
So I have heard
the neighbour’s phone
trilling through
his vacant house.
But when, with
oceanic stride,
sleep breaks over
the mindful room,
who called who
Was it answered,
I cease to care
in the static gloom.
And waking think:
let some well paid
actuary, his
keen mind cumber
with Yearbook graphs
and percentages
of how many crickets
calling crickets
find the Inev-
itable Number.
N.Z..
GLORIA RAWLINSON.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 235
Across
I—Going1—Going crook in town before the
French revolution? (12)
B—He8 —He runs the paper altar name
chosen by the Reubenites and
Gadites. (2)
, 10 —Wurlitzer needed to impress
fabric. (8)
11 —South to marry fifty and swing
on the axis. (6)
13 — The downiness of a cloth game
of cards with 40 wiriks. (3)
14 — A steer’s mismanaged problems.
(7)
15 — Wagnerian that is sold within. (6)
17 —My little bounder at the start is
capacious. (5)
19 —The suiting to a new purpose
causes physical training to come
between the Reeve and the Idriess.
(8)
22 — Ring for this sporting product
fracture in femur, tibia, or fibula.
(3-5)
23 — Yellow-brown duck is a clown.
(5)
25 —About a couple with a cloth tune
to fix. (6)
27 —One who has been named the
pitless east. (7)
29 —It hits up a score for a club. (3)
31 —phis is nothing to a swimmer
like a clod. (6)
33 — Agreement to shrink from study
on a religious pamphlet. (8)
34 — Exists in small islands. (2)
35 Peevish hen who is engaged m
one of the arts of printing. (5, 7>
Down
1— They fatten fish taken from a
lobster. (8) ,
2 Fit out the parent part with a
long-winded narrative. (9)
3 Boy needs a clean change. (5)
4 Puts back check units in our
Federation. (10)
5 O’Dea exchanges nothing for the
ego notion. (4)
6 Pronoun. (3)
7 Stopped with Henry Edward. (6)
9 —Live in sin. (4)
12 —Copper located by this old ship
plying between King’s Lynn and
Skegness? (4-3)
16 —Bobby, an Australian comedian,
is in nonsense dress for inclement
weather. (10)
18 —Abbey is full of Crustacea. (7)
20— garrulous dogs do for a
composer. (9)
21 — Perches on a sailor celebrity of
the Warsaw stage as a help to
northern navigation. (4, 4)
24 —Thinks morosely about small
families, (6)
26^—Upturned fortissimo blow. (4)
28 —Music of totem. (5)
30 —Current is Galatea’s lover. (4)
32 —Atoll in the Tuamotu Archipelago
has a laugh over nothing. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 234


.
mm mm
- v.:-;
//
/.
/
If'
‘
'
■• ■ ... ■ ■■;■,'. '
. . m
, !
m
•<■;, <*&
1
: tti
mm
:: ■
y : yy
*;■> : :i
»
■ i
m
M
M
A*
m
« • ■:
■ 8
■■:
m
a-.
:
a
k?'W
m
m
mm
m
I :
I
m
:■■■. :
*£*s
-
mmy
mm
sss
x mm
m
> rf
;
■' A
' ‘j
iii
.AS
wrniMmmm
#
ii
ms
; : :»i|
IL 'V .1
■ k
iii
ii
mmk ]
■
hm
■' BSB
m
■■
iiiiiiiiii
..V :; r--
-
m
M
m
m
m
m
m
m
■y ••
m
m
m
m
m
■:y
mm
y m
ii
.
HP
mm
'
m
m
m
"y'" : ".
■:i£y
m
' X>-; : ■
IM
Wim.
M
m
m
»
■
■
*
Si
■
i*
m
m
iii
;;;
li
ii
■
H
m
I Asmyy ST '~M
wWMkmrnt
|SBi£§
• • ;•
CATERPILLAR
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
means
mw
CATERPILLAR D/£S€C
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
MMIM
ueensland
HASTINGS DEERING - QUEENSLAND PTY.
LTD.
102-124 Melbourne St.. South Brisbane
Phone J 1456 (6 lines)
BRANCH: ERNEST ST.. INNISFAIL
Phone 475
HASTINGS DIESELS LIMITED,
ALICE SPRINGS. NORTHERN TERRITORY
AND LAE, NEW GUINEA


t of two worlds
goes to make
strong Australian
BROWN
Long-fibred softwood pulp from
overseas pine, and short-fibred
hardwood pulp from Australia’s
eucalypts, combine their best
qualities in Australian-made
brown paper. Blending in scien-
tifically-controlled proportions
during manufacture results in a
high-quality, strong and durable
brown Kraft Paper.
This excellent Australian-made
brown paper is available for
wrappings for use in your
business.
Order Stocks
from your usual
paper supplier
now...
Quality wrappings pay big
dividends in customer goodwill
Make no mistake, customers notice wrappings ! In today’s keen competition*,
efficient wrapping service is a business-builder you can’t afford to overlook.
Make sure all goods leaving your store are properly wrapped in clean, strong
Brown Paper. It’s a “plus” of service customers really appreciate.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LIMITED
Aikman Street, South Melbourne. McCauley Street, Matraville, N.S.W.
Makers of Raw Material for the Wrapping Trade.
