

FOR PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION, BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“THE ROARING DAYS”—B-PAGE LAWSON VERSE-PICTORIAL
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3838
Wednesday, September 2, 1953
Price 9cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
“THE LANTERN OF ENGLAND”—BATH ABBEY
AT the eastern end of the Mendip Hills in Somerset is the graceful city of
Bath, the leading spa in Britain which is also rich in history and
tradition. The Romans, who came to Britain in the year 47, left much
evidence of their appreciation of Bath in the magnificent buildings which still
exist today and are the most important Roman remains in Britain. In 1882
the great Roman Bath was uncovered, the floor of which still retains its
original lead covering.
Under the Romans Bath, or Aquae Sulis as it was then known, served
as a pleasure city, but with the departure of the legions it fell into ruins
and was later rebuilt by the Saxons.
When Queen Elizabeth I visited the city in 1591 it was in such a state
of dilapidation that she complained of its smell in no uncertain terms.
With the Restoration, however, Charles II visited Bath and the city was once
more in the front rank of fashion. It was not until the beginning of the
eighteenth century that Bath became the beautiful city it still remains today.
The famous Beau Nash, as master of ceremonies and presiding genius
of the gaming rooms, attracted to Bath all the fashionable world of the day.
As a fitting background for this elegance the architectural genius, John
Wood, swept away the medieval city and built the splendid, dignified streets,
crescents and classical buildings which give the city its own character and
individuality.
Bath Abbey, renowned for the beauty of its medieval fan-vaulting and
for its West Front, is known as the “Lantern of England.” It stands upon
the site of a seventh-century Saxon church in which King Edgar was crowned
in the tenth century. This was followed by a Norman cathedral of which
only fragments now remain in the fifteenth-century Abbey built by Bishop
King and restored in 1874 by Sir Gilbert Scott. The Abbey escaped with
only slight damage during the enemy air raids of 1942 which caused so much
destruction in the city.
Of the many links which bind Australia to the historic city of Bath none
is of a closer or more enduring character than that of the city’s association
with Captain Phillip (1738-1814), first Governor of New South Wales and
founder of Australia.


PLAN YOUR CAREER
STOTT’S can prepare you—in your OWN
HOME —for a SUCCESSFUL CAREER or
for PROMOTION in your present sphere.
Mail the Coupon today.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Dcsign
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Meeh., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Bussell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St.. Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
-—CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON -
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in—
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 653) .....AGE
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. »/-.)
We specialise in Katherine Mansfield items, in Aus-
tralian and N.Z. poetry, history, flora and fauna
of N.Z., South Seas, Antarctica, etc., and publish
Collectors’ Monographs (12/6 set of 9).
The Red Page
THE FACE OF MELBOURNE
Any Melbourne citizen who looks
through Early Melbourne Architecture, a
photographic record compiled by Mrs.
R. G. Casey and others and published
by the Oxford University Press, will
certainly be astonished, as I was, at
finding such a quantity of fine buildings
still extant in his city, even though he
has walked past dozens of them daily.
He walks past but doesn’t see them—
or, rather, he sees them through the veil
of the prevailing fashion and in terms
of that fashion they look hopelessly
below par, if not downright squalid.
I was in this position twenty years ago
when I happened to be house-hunting in
Melbourne. I had passed 68 Latrobe-
street (64 is illustrated in this volume)
hundreds of times and it had never
occurred to me to contemplate the dilapi-
dated old mansion as a possible residence
until Justus Jorgensen, the artist, pointed
it out, remarking that it had a perfect
Georgian facade and that if it were
pulled down and re-erected in a park
in Sussex it would be taken for one of
the stately homes of England.
I didn’t mind living in a stately home,
so I promptly went to the Russell-sfreet
police, who owned it. It had been seized
by the unemployed during the depression
and almost gutted, and the police were
surprised that anybody but a homeless
tramp would want the ruin. “You can
have it for fifteen-bob a week,” said a
policeman, “but fou’ll have to get out
in six months because it’s going to be
pulled down.” I moved in with my
family, who speedily restored it more-
or-less to its original condition, and we
stayed in that baronial mansion for seven
years at a peanut rental.
I remember once seeing a friend from
Adelaide approach the front door and
look nervously up and down the street
before she banged the knocker—she was
ashamed to be seen entering a house
which fifty-or-so years earlier had been
considered a suitable residence for the
Duke of Edinburgh when he stayed in
Melbourne. Its carved doors, which had
swung silently on their hinges for 100
years, have long since gone to the
wreckers, and the Georgian faqade is part
of the Williamstown breakwater. An
effort was made to save it and have it
re-erected elsewhere, but the Government
of the day wasn’t interested in stale old
buildings.
As most of the buildings illustrated in
this volume are destined to suffer the
same fate as 68 Latrobe-street —in fact,
some of them disappeared during its
preparation—the book is timely. The
period covered is from 1840 to 1888.
After that Melbourne architecture took
a nosedive into pseudo-this and pseudo-
that and finally into the complete aridity
of modern architecture, as exemplified in
the monstrous butterbox which has just
been designed to replace the Wilson Hall
and which shows less architectural
imagination than the humble bluestone
cottage in Pelham-street, Carlton, pic-
tured on page 68 of Mrs. Casey’s volume.
The man who built the cottage didn’t
think of himself as an architect. He
was simply following the tradition handed
down to him by his forebears, but the
tradition happened to be a good one. He
used the material to hand, which hap-
pened to be bluestone, of which there are
untold quantities around Melbourne. It
is an intractable material and it had to
be hewn and dressed ; but there were
plenty of masons and carvers trained in
the tradition. He also used the local
basalt for his churches, wool-stores, fences
and paving and kerbing.
Had he lived in Sydney he would have
had to use Hawkesbury sandstone, so,
while Sydney tends to be soft and golden,
Melbourne tends to be black, square,
solid and undecorated, though a touch
of gaiety and lightness was brought into
the rectangular proportions by the indi-
vidual who started in the 1850’s to exploit
the new machine-age by manufacturing
the cast-iron lacework which you • see
everywhere on verandas and fences,
some of it very beautiful examples with
cockatoos and other local fauna for
motives.
This variety between Sydney and Mel-
bourne came about by accident, not by
any conscious thinking. Unlike the
modern architect, the builder didn’t say,
“I’m going to be different,” yet he ended-
up by being different, whereas the modern
architect, trying to be different, ends-up
with the maddening monotony of the
“model” suburb.
It is surprising how much variety is
revealed by this volume even in a row
of old Melbourne terrace-houses such as
the Victoria Buildings, Queen-street, or
in the old jails and public-houses' such
as the Saracen’s Head, the Fountain Inn
and the Steampacket Hotel, Williams-
town ; and some of the most dignified
architecture is to be found in the livery-
stables and old warehouses such as
Gippslanti and Northern, Goldsbrough
Mort’s and the Malt House. When Coop
put up his shot-tower for a strictly utili-
tarian purpose he couldn’t help but make
it look architectural, whereas the smoke-
stack of the new Spencer-street power-
house, being strictly functional according
to modern ideas of architecture, looks
like a concrete drain stuck endways.
Melbourne just missed the Old Colonial
period that gave Sydney many gracious-
looking houses, but there are a few
examples such as Linden at St. Kilda,
the home which the tanner-ancestor of
the Michaelis family built in 1870 and
which is still preserved in its original
condition. Its ironwork verandas and
chequered pavements and graceful win-
dows make most of the near-by modern
mansions look like mere architectural
posturings.
But it is the little old bluestone houses
cramped together in the slums and indus-
trial suburbs, with their slate roofs, their
windows picked out audaciously with
white quoins, which are the chief charm
of this book. Some of the inhabitants
seem proud of them, or perhaps they
can’t get modern houses because of the
shortage and are making the best of a
bad job by painting them and gaily pick-
ing out their architectural features in
red, white and pink paint. We pass by
them daily without a glance and let the
Government pull them down and replace
them with some modern horror until
some more understanding individual
points them out or a book like this, by
taking them out of their context, shows
them to us. Then we weep crocodile-
tears over the ruination of the city our
grandfathers built and go and buy a
prefabricated house with all mod. cons.
from Sweden.
M. G. S.
Carlyle on Boswell
The publishers and the editor of
Carlyle (Longmans), an excellent antho-
logy of his writings selected by G. M.
Trevelyan, agree that their hero is some-
what out of fashion. His history is
accounted more poetic than scholarly;
his politics have dated ; the voluminous-
ness of his writing alarms the modern
reader.
But Boswell is certainly not out of
fashion—the new volumes of his Journal
make worldwide sensation every two
years or so —and it will be surprising if
anybody who comes across Carlyle’s
eminently sound and sympathetic opinion
on " Boswell in this anthology is not
tempted to pursue so fine a mind further.
Where Carlyle concurs in the familiar
Victorian charge of “sycophancy” against
Boswell he is probably open to correc-
tion, for Boswell’s politeness to the so-
called great men of his era is best seen
as an amiable duplicity, adopted so that
he might use them as literary material;
but, with that qualification, Carlyle was
really admirable in a period when
Macaulay set the tone for deriding the
greatest of English biographers:
The world, as we have said, has been
but unjust to him; discerning only the
outer terrestrial and often sordid mass;
without eye, as it generally is, for his inner
divine secret; thus figuring him nowise as
a good Pan, but simply of the bestial
species, like the cattle on a thousand hills.
Nay, sometimes a strange enough hypo-
thesis has been started of him; as it u
were in virtue even of these same baa
qualities that he did his good work; as
if it were the very fact of his being am ° n S
the worst men in the world that had enabled
him to write one of the best books therein.
Falser hypothesis, we may -venture to say,
never rose in human 50u1.... Boswell wrote
a good Book because he had a heart and
an eye to discern Wisdom, and an utter-
ance to render it forth; because of hi|
free insight, his lively talent, above all, of
his Love and childlike Open-mindedness,
....As for the Book itself.... which of
us but remembers, as one of the sunny
spots in his existence, the day when he
opened these airy volumes, fascinating him
by a true natural magic! It was as if the
curtains of the past were drawn aside, and
we looked mysteriously into a kindred
country, where dwelt our Fathers; mex-
pressibly dear to us, but which had seemed
forever hidden from pur eyes... .There
once more it lay; all bright, lucid, bloom-
ing; a little island of Creation amid the
circumambient Void,
Those who do, after this, go on to
discover or rediscover Carlyle will find
him equally fascinating in the more fiery
style of The French Revolution, for which
most of us remember him: —
From five in the afternoon a great city
is struck suddenly silent; except for the
beating of drums, for the tramp of march-
ing feet; and ever and anon the dread
thunder of the knocker at some door, a
Tricolor Commissioner with his blue Guards
(black- guards!) arriving. All Streets are
vacant, says Peltier; beset by Guards at
each end: all Citizens are ordered to be
within doors. On the River float sentinel
barges, lest we escape by water: the
Barriers hermetically closed. Frightful!
The Sun shines; serenely westering, in
smokeless mackerel-sky; Paris is as if sleep-
ing, as if dead: —Paris is holding its breath,
to see what stroke will fall on it.... Some
four-hundred, designated as ‘persons sus-
pect,’ were seized; and ah unspeakable
terror fell on all. Woe to him who is
guilty of plotting, of Anti-civism, Royalism,
Feuillantism; who, guilty or not guilty,
has an enemy in his Section to call him
guilty! Poor old M. cle Cazotte is seized;
his young loved Daughter with him, refus-
ing to quit him. O Cazotte, wouldst thou
quit romancing and Diable Amoureux for
such reality as this? Poor old M. de
Sombreuil, he of the Invalides, is seized;
whom also a fond Daughter will not quit.
The famed and the named go; the name-
less ....
In quieter style again there are Car-
lyle’s noble eulogy of Burns, in a cadence
which Churchill was later to borrow for
the airmen of the Battle of Britain—
“ Strictly speaking, perhaps no British
man has so deeply affected the thoughts
and feelings of so many men, as this
solitary and altogether private individual,
with means apparently the humblest” 1 —
and his brilliant pen-portraits of Southey,
Coleridge, Tennyson smoking his pipe
“with great composure in an inarticulate
element of tranquil chaos and tobacco
smoke” and poor Wordsworth sunk in
the immense egotism of his old age,
admiring no other poet but himself, “like
a dim old lichened crag on the wayside,
the private meaning of which, in contrast
with any public meaning it had, you
recognised with a kind of not wholly
melancholy grin.”
German Music
The most interesting part of The
Golden Age of German Music and Its
Origins, by Grace O’Brien (Jarrolds), is
the long account of origins. The early
Roman chant, “derived from Jewish and
Greek music,” spread into Germany’ from
Ireland, as later did the Gregorian chant;
and the first German poem or song, the
“Hilderbrandslied,” was written during
the reign of Charlemagne.
Some German song-forms and folk-
songs were developed from tropes and
sequences themselves developed from the
Mass by German priests; and music
first left the church in the company of
minstrels, actors and jugglers, known as
spiellute, mime, vagante and- gaukler ;
wanderers, outlaws, and, in companies,
dangerous.
The cult of the minnesinger {mime
meaning “love”) ran from the twelfth
century to the end of the thirteenth. The
minnesinger, like the troubadours of
France, were of noble birth ; they sang
to the small, triangular harp in the
courts of princes:
In some songs the minnesinger praise
their noble patrons;. but, if they were not
well-treated, the fact was apt to be recorded
in biting satire.
Miss O’Brien is informative on the
structure of their lied and lai, generally
better-written than composed; and gives
some account of Walther von der Vogel-
weide, Wolfram von Eschenbach, Tann-
hauser, and other such perfect
Wagnerites. The noble minnesinger
were followed by the meistersinger, or
town-musicians, who enforced rigid rules,
and produced the kind of song and music
that could be expected from this.
The next development was of instru-
ments, the organ being added to lute,
harp and flute, and small orchestras
being maintained by powerful princes
The Emperor Maximilian I was a great
lover of music and also an inveterate
traveller. He took his musicians with
him, and they played during the journey •
notably Paul Hofhaimer, who sal in a
chariot hauled by a camel playing a
positive organ, a regal organ behind him
a skirted attendant working the huge
bellows by hand. A Burkmair engrqvin"
shows the carriage, and a further illus-
tration the camel, its head bound, in
accordance with the Emperor’s instruc-
tions, with a wreath of laurel.
With the development in Germany of
polyphonic music. Miss O’Brien really
begins business : and her tracing of in-
fluences across Germany, of musicians
moving from court to court; of the effect
of Orlandus Lassus upon the music of
the Court of Munich, of other Flemish
musicians upon the music of Vienna, and
of Hassler and Schutz, Italian-trained
Germans, upon the music of Dresden,
makes too intricate a web to transfer.
Those who are anxious to establish an
Australian national opera might do worse
than study the next phase: the reas-
sertion of Italian influence; the gradual
spread of Italian opera throughout
Germany ; the ineffectual stand of Ham-
burg against it; the early training of
Handel himself in Italian opera and
oratorio ; and the break made by Gluck
with “Orfeo,” in Vienna in 1762.
Here, and with the rest of the book,
we are on more familiar ground: chapter-
studies of the great men of “the classical
period”—Handel, Bach, Gluck, Haydn,
Mozart and Beethoven. For the general
reader casually interested in music it is
a book full of information and interest.
Reviewed Briefly
The Shape of Sunday : Virginia Doug-
las Dawson and Betty Douglas Wilson
(Peter Davies). A biography of Lloyd
C. Douglas, author of The Robe, by his
daughters. Since The Robe stayed on
the best-seller list for four years, was
translated into 18 languages and has sold
oyer two million copies, the biography
should not lack readers; and in a
pleasant, chatty style, much of it based
on letters, and covering the writer’s career
as a minister in U.S. and Canadian small
towns and his struggles towards success
as a novelist, it is well done.
4* * * *
Jumping Jupiter: Ernestine Gilbreth
Carey (Heioemann). In the unlikely
event of this reader ever owning a large
retail-shop, Mrs. Gilbreth Carey’s bur-
lesque of sales-profnotion techniques
would be banned from the shelves of its
book-department. As it is, no one who
reads it is ever likely to he an entirely
unwary shopper again. The heroine is
Kay Linsey, the youthful buyer in the
toy-department of Joyce’s, a huge New
York store The real hero is Jumping
Jupiter, a mobile toy goat. Mrs. Carey,
who was co-author with her brother
Frank in writing Cheaper by the Dozen
and Belles on Their Toes, lays her satire
on with a trowel, but she is an expert
bricklayer, and there is never a dull
moment for followers of Jupiter’s antics,
from the sample order (without safety-
button) to his becoming a New York-
shaking “game fad.”
* # * *
Kingfishers Catch Fire : Rumer Godden
(Macmillan). Miss Godden will be re-
membered by readers of The River,
Black Narcissus and many other novels
as a writer of beautiful and dreamily-
romantic prose. Her novels are con-
sistently high in formal quality, too, her
grasp of facts and situations and of
character being firm and sure, so that
there is nothing cloying or sweet about
them. Kingfishers Catch Fire is set in
Kashmir, and the story is of Sophie, a
young widow with two children, deter-
mined to live a “peasant” life following
a financial crash. But Sophie is no
peasant; neither, until many dramatic
and tragic things have happened, does she
understand the life and viewpoint of
Kashmiri peasants. But Miss Godden
(who has lived there, and who spent her
childhood in India) does understand
them, and her account of conflict and
misunderstanding played out against a
landscape most poetically described is
uncommonly convincing and moving.
The book is notable also for its wry and
sophisticated humor.


* *> '-&j' i ifi , f
'x ••- X,
A
" : v :
S&
B
■■
i
■
>vx
x: ■■■¥:
m
M
: ;
■ ■
Hi i
i
i
H
I
>
B
■MHI
K
1 1
s
* ; i:
a
>- •
■■■;.:
■
■ m
m
i
n
ii
*
v^c.Z:.
ii
i
*
A
A
i-
t
I^. i
roi
Our magic carpet event!
Rarely in Sydney’s history (even at
the most celebrated auctions) have you seen
such rare carpets selling at
these low prices. These are only a few of
our range, and many others are
obtainable in our Carpet Dept., 4th floor.
•Must Arrived! A splendid collection of
Persian Handmade Rugs
Some are fine collector 9 s pieces .
These hand'woven Persian Rugs we’ve imported are truly collector’s pieces, treasures
your family will have for generations. They’re not reproductions . . . they’re
authentic! You’ll find designs here from the various Asian schools, designs you’ll be able
to identify in any authoritative reference book. There are designs, exotic as the
Orient . . . brilliant medallion patterns, spectrum colours ... to match a period setting
create intriguing contrast to modern decor. See them on our Fourth Floor.
A. Shiraz is 10' 7" x 6' 11”. Price £ll6/14/3
B. Afshari is 6* x 4* Price is £3O/-/-
C. Naine is 5' 9" x 3' 7". Price £l5O/-/-
D. Bokhara is 4' x 3' 2”. Priced at £2B/15/-
E. Balouche Is 3' 10" x 2'. Price £l5/15/-
F. Shiraz is 5' x 3' 7". Priced at £35/10/-
Afghan is 6' 10" x 3' 11". Priced £4O/5/-
Bokhara is 4' 8" x 3' 1". Priced £42/10/-
tre
mi
:: :
Miilpli
IT3
m
**
m i
i
ess
y
*»?s
//
m
** w
ii
«p
«k'l
st-^rs
?v»
mm
*r
IBs
€
m
;• v
mi
m
m
NI
.......
&
Hi
?««»
m
m
H*-
m:
m
m
m
V
- '•'*' 11 :
K ’V.
SmU
m
m
is
J 8&
- j
:
• M
WWx\
4^y%
m
0
i


Some Assimilation Experiences
NEW AUSTRALIAN CONTACTS
By STEPHEN KELEN
THE problem of a New Australian
is not so much a matter of moral
attitudes, tastes, the kind of food
one prefers to eat, habits and ideas
on entertainment, although all this has
some importance. The language is the
main and most formidable obstacle a
foreigner must bridge.
As soon as he has managed to gather
a working knowledge of English, the
long procedure of disappointments and
small encouragements which, eventually,
may lead him towards assimilation has
commenced.
* * * *
Being a foreigner, I am watched and
listened to with more attention than
“normal people” would receive.
When I exclaim “My oath! ”,
“Fair dinkum!”, “You go and jump in
the lake!” or “Pull your head in!”, in-
stantly I become the centre of attention.
Everybody is delighted with me, as if
I were a child, who just picked up some
very clever and unusual words,
* * * *
“What’s in a name?” —for a New
Australian choosing a newborn “Old”
Australian’s name, everything.
A name like “Victor” or “Wilbert”
or “Heather” may be closest to the N.A.
parents’ heart, but what of the ensuing
difficulties when the offspring are big
enough to notice linguistical disabilities?
The mispronouncing of their very own
name might hurt them more than any
other parental shortcoming . . . put them
to asking:
“Dad, why don’t you say my name
the right way? ...”
* * * *
Supposing you are not yet naturalised
and an “Old Australian” is bom into
your family. Here is a little citizen with
all the rights his parents do not enjoy.
You are still a tolerated foreigner, on a
sort of moral bond, liable to all manner
of laws and by-laws—but the infant is a
full-fledged member of the community.
What are you going to do with him,
or her?
Instinct dictates you should mould
him according to your own tastes and
outlook, and converse with him in your
own mother-tongue. Reason says this
would be the wrong attitude, because
one of your main aims, which you will
never be able to reach completely, is
to assimilate. The kid will be able to
make his place in society with the
greatest of ease. For a while, in all
probability, he will not even know that
his parents are foreign. If you try very
hard, you may be able to make a
foreigner out of him, although he was
born here. If you let things take their
natural course, he is sure to become a
dinkum Aussie.
The two families (one is the nation
itself, and the other the intimate, per-
sonal circle of flesh and blood) are
bound to clash, unless you take some
sober, preventive action. .
Telling the children “tales from the old
country,” speaking to them about their
grandfather who was a Bulgarian, and,
at the same time, encouraging their Aus-
tralian sentiments are probably the best
beginnings to bridge this very serious and
intimate problem.
When the child comes home from
school, looks at you suspiciously, and
finally faces you, asking, “Is it true, Dad,
that you are a foreigner? Why didn’t
you tell me?” that is the first of many
problems which will bo difficult to bridge.
Children must have a complete know-
ledge and pride as to both the family
and the nation they belong to.
**, ♦ «
Australians are a gullible people. They
believe anything you promise them. But
woe to you if you happen to break your
word! One of the best examples 1
have heard of is the case of the “drowned
dental-plate.”
It happened in the Blue Mountains,
this Switzerland of New Australians who
live in N.S.W., that a foreign gent,
dropped his dental-plate in a swimming-
pool.
A poor swimmer, he looked into the
waters with a pitiful, toothless smile of
pathetic helplessness, waiting for some-
one with diving ability to rescue his
chewing equipment.
“I pay five pound for any person who
prings up my tooz!” the toothless one
cried out in despair.
“Right, I’ll get them for you,” an
Aussie volunteered his help.
“0.K., you go, pleaze get tooz,” the
new arrival said.
In a minute or so, the Australian
emerged from the pool, holding the much-
desired dental-plate in his hand.
Meanwhile, the New Australian
regretted his offer for such an easy
assignment. He now said: “Maybe, two
pounds all right for you, eh?”
“You promised me a fiver,” the Aus-
tralian insisted good-humoredly.
“Oh, yes, two pounds O.K. for you,”
the faithless one insisted.
“Well, then, go and get ’em your-
self,” the Australian retorted angrily
and threw the dental-plate back into the
pool.
“Very veil,” sighed the New Aus-
tralian, “give you five pounds now.”
“You can keep your fiver and”
The Aussie concluded with a ribald sug-
gestion and walked away, leaving the
man and his problem behind him.
Probably he would have brought up
the man’s teeth just as a favor, but he
was rather prepared to let two pounds,
and then a “fiver” go, than associate
any further with someone who so
blatantly broke a promise.
This incident is by no means an excep-
tion to the rule. I have encountered
several similar ones. Australians hate
to be treated pettily. A word is a word,
they say, and, if you break it, more often
than not you’ll be the one who is going
to pay the penalty.
* * * *
“Cold enough for you?” is not really
a futile question. It brings the relation-
ship between the person who asked and
the other who is supposed to answer onto
a personal basis.
Your opinion is asked on a question
of vital importance to one’s physical
well-being. Actually you are made a
“weather judge,” a most important per-
sonage, and a pronouncement is ex-
pected. With gay bravado you may
say “I’m used to it,” or, if your sense
of humor is equal to it, “This is nothing
to what I experienced in Equatorial
Africa,” or you may meekly admit
suffering it like any other Australian.
In either case a pleasant intimacy has
been established, a sort of brotherhood
in suffering from the cold or heat or
whatever the climatic conditions happen
to be.
Never fail to answer “Cold enough
for you?” or “Hot enough for you?” ;
a splendid opportunity to get in closer
contact with the natives of the land.
* * * *
Australians (and New Zealanders) are
better armed against gloomy and mono-
tonous Sundays than any other people,
including the English.
When I say they are “better armed”
I mean they are used to spending their
Sundays in a most delightful and sensible
manner, which, however, drives nine out
of every ten New Australians to despair.
It took me years before I started to
appreciate the Sundays in Australia,
especially since the 40-hour week had
been introduced. Saturday is good
enough for the pictures, a tea dansant,
or a ball, whilst Sunday is ideal for com-
plete relaxation in one’s home (if any),
swimming and surfing, a hike, or dozens
of other things. For the religious-minded
there is the church, Sunday-school, and
so on.
But New Australians, not acquainted
with the intimacies of Australian Sun-
days, feel like outcasts wandering the
streets of the big cities, seeking and not
finding relaxation after a hard week’s
work. Each city is almost completely
deserted. Most of the restaurants are
closed, so are the picture-shows, theatres,
cabarets. 1
In summer, if he is bright enough and
so inclined, the “outcast” can go to the
beach, or the equivalent of sideshows,
but in winter even these two avenues of
relaxation are closed to him. A French
journalist, who had travelled the world
and had been at the Korean battlefields,
remarked that being in the front-line
under enemy fire is a gay holiday com-
pared with an Australian Sunday.
For about one out of every ten New
Australians, however, the Sundays are
welcome as a heaven-sent opportunity.
“You see,” one of these explained to
me, “on Sunday I can take on odd jobs
and get double pay for it. I work the
forty-eight-hours-week or longer, yes. So
what? In Europe I had to be on the
job for longer than that and didn’t com-
plain. As a matter of fact I was happy
for having a job at all. The Sundays
here give me my big chance to get a
house and a car sooner or later.”
So it is a matter of taste and opinion;
what’s gloomy for one is a jolly good
opportunity for another.
Personally, I think the “gloomy” Sun-
days around Mosman Bay will add an-
other ten years to my life.
* * * *
I met Julius Finkelberger (Mr. Frost
by deed-poll) in Pitt-street. Normally a
rather gloomy fellow, who only smiles
when he manages a good business deal,
he radiated happiness.
“Business must be pretty good,” I re-
marked.
“Business,” he replied, “was never
worse since I came to Australia.”
“Then . . . why the mirth?”
“The mirth? I just got my passport, a
British passport for me, the citizen of
Australia.”
And I fully understood his great pride
and rejoicing.
For a European the right kind of
passport is not simply a little book which
entitles you to travel; it is a vital docu-
menf often meaning the difference be-
tween life or death, freedom or slavery.
An overseas passport was the most
precious currency in Europe, where
people were often trapped in their own
country, unable to leave, though seeing
the growth of political menace which,
they knew, would eventually engulf and
destroy them.
A passport for a post-war “displaced
person” meant the difference between
languishing in a semi-concentration camp
or having the freedom of the world. It
also meant that the “displaced” had a
place to go to and settle down and start
life anew.
Trade in false and genuine passports
took on fantastic proportions. In most
European countries (such as, say,
Hungary) passports were issued by the
police. Passport officers, and their
agents, amassed fortunes from anxious
people who desired a speedy departure
from tyranny. Some South American
consulates also provided such passports
—for considerable sums of money.
And so now here was Mr. Frost, a full-
fledged Australian citizen and possessor
of a British passport!
“Are you going abroad, Julius?” I
inquired.
“Abroad?” he said. “No. This
country is good enough for me.”
“I meant on a pleasure-trip.”
“Pleasure-trip? Now? You have no
idea how bad business is.”
“Then why did you get a passport?”
He took his passport out, lovingly
caressed it, and carefully placed it back
into his inner-pocket.
“You know how it is,” he said in a
mellow tone. “I just had a great urge to
have a legitimate, wonderful passport.
I said to myself, ‘O.K., so business is
very bad, Julius. You are a sad man.
You may have lost a lot of money lately.
Bad! May be you will not be able to
afford the good things you had in the
last five years. But, man, you can have
an Australian passport!”
It’s only my guess, but I think it was
the first time he had spent money and
time unnecessarily. But to him it seemed
an excellent investment. It gave him a
feeling that he was the richest man in
the world.
Legacy of Early Migrants
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S
“DEUTSCHER” VILLAGES
By JOHN GARDNER
1 “TILLAGES and townships built in
\ I the fertile hills and valleys within
y some 50 miles of Adelaide by an
influx of German migrants over
100 years ago still bear the basic human
and architectural characteristics stamped
on them by their original settlers.
Recently going over the ground again
I found the “Deutsch” districts much as
they had been when I had covered them
years ago on horseback.
Today find cars replace the noble horses
we knew, but Papa still collects bread
and pastries in a spotless muslin-bag;
Mama baizes big slices of coffee-cake,
apple-strudel, apple-slice and other tradi-
tional fare from recipes handed down,
These bilingual German-Australians
still eat their mettwurst, sauerkraut and
sausage and sing at the liedertafel and
at church the songs of their fathers.
Here and there on the road or at a
clearing-sale you’ll meet a local in a
shiny peaked cap like they wear on the
Continent. The streets and farmhouses
are clean, with flowering gardens and
trimmed hedges.
Most of these people you meet are
Lutherans whose forebears came here.
mainly, between 1838 and the 1860’s after
Frederick William 111 of Prussia had
tried to weld the Protestant denominations
into one church. And in this new and
peaceful land they settled at Klemzig,
Hahndorf, Tanunda, Loxton, Eudunda,
Stockwell, Ebenezer, Dimchurch, Light
Pass, Peachtown, Truro and Taplan.
In most of these places you’ll see first
a thin spire coming from a sturdy stone
church, the keystone of the village.
When the Germans reached the hills
and valleys o f Sout hAustr a liatheycon-
tinned the culture of their native coun-
Absorption has been gradual, but I
found village war-memorials sprinkled
with German names, most of them volun-
teers.
I pulled up on a winding well-repaired
red-gravel road and spoke to two snowy-
haired kids astraddle a post-and-rail
fence. They were eager to say that the
hand-made brick and axe-split redgum
farmhouse behind them was “over 150
years old.”
They were a bit out in their reckoning.
Actually, it was built around 1840 by
one of the earliest Lutheran refugees
from Prussian religious persecution. It
was one of half a dozen forming the tiny
hamlet of Peachtown, a hidden and
hardly-known little gem about 18 miles
f rom Adelaide,
Its beauty had struck me amid tragedy
over 20 years earlier, when I had ridden
out at dusk on a trooper’s task of
dragging a farmlad’s body from a dam.
We laid him out by lamplight in a low-
ceilmged cottage as my German-speak-
ing fellow-trooper tried to console sad-
dened womenfolk. On the revisit ot a
few weeks ago the first man I met remem-
bered the incident.
We found farmcart barns of t e
middle-1800 vintage, built from big slabs
of timber hewn from great gums, rest-
mg awkwardly like old men drowsing
under trees. Geese waddled about
home-yards and carnations grew under
the post-and-wire a bit further along
A crippled old bilingual resident ot
the next village hobbled around showing
us old German prints.andlrewom'ttrts
and “f,J“Lf' d “: l i “ b ‘“
dmg. Four daughters and six sonS ( (hve
Vhe town band parched
tbe house and there was gaiety
» ear lv mornine
le w
friends.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, September 2, 1953
Vol. 74—No. 3838
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box 2521 ;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE AWFUL "LABOR" MESS
If the Commonwealth Government at the next general
election has real cause to fear the ragged mess that
calls itself a “Labor” party Australia must have
become decadent indeed. The two “Labor” leaders
are so notoriously at loggerheads that they don’t find
it worth while to make a secret of the fact even to
their enemies. It is only a question whether Dr. Evatt
infuriates Mr. Calwell more than Mr. Calwell irritates
him. The anti-Communist “Rightists,” led by Keon
and Mullens, are at variance with everybody else. The
Leftists of the party tramp round trying to look like
“Rights” ; and the “Rights” masquerade in the colors
of the “Left.” The party professes to hate Com-
munists, to be determined to drive them out of the
movement; but in the largest State “Labor” Govern-
ment —N.S.W. —the acting-leader in a time of crisis
(while Mr. Cahill has been away) is a former official
of the Communist party, who used to advocate replac-
ing “the White terror by the Red terror,” and the
dictatorship of the proletariat. And today, though he
is the leader of the Right-wing Government in N. S.
Wales, scarifying disruptionist Reds, Mr. Heffron’s
mind runs to expedients such as “compulsory
unionism,” land taxes to “break-up the large estates”
and produce “more food and smaller fortunes”;
expedients which hitherto have resulted only in pro-
ducing dearer food.
As proposed by the N. S. Wales Government it
is, as the secretary of the N. S. Wales Taxpayers’
Association, Mr. McKellar White, says, “purely and
simply a capital-levy,” an impost which falls
inequitably on profitable and unprofitable land alike
irrespective of good or bad times, a device which the
Federal Government proved to be a failure for the
purpose for which Mr. Heffron says it is designed,
and abandoned by Canberra.
“Compulsory unionism,” of course, is inherent in
the constitutions of all slave States, but in no others.
And that it should be introduced in the face of
repeated failures at Triennial Federal A.L.P. Confer-
ences to have it adopted as a practical “Labor” measure
shows further the divisions in party thought. Dr.
Evatt was one of the most emphatic advocates of
freedom of association when he proposed his
“Fourteen Points” Constitutional amendments in
1944, and he was also one of the most fervent
builders of the Declaration of Human Rights of the
United Nations General Assembly—it was inferred in
some quarters close to him that he was the main
author of that document. As Mr. B, S. L. Deane,
M.L.A., said in the N. S. Wales Assembly in attacking
the proposal, compulsory unionism is a complete
negation of the principles in the declaration to which
Australia —which meant Dr. Evatt and the “Labor”
party at the time the document was drafted —pledged
adherence:
(a) Everyone has the right to freedom of peace-
ful assembly; and
(b) no one may be compelled to belong to an
association.
But in Dr. Evatt’s State, in which he is official
Federal leader of the party, the AX.P. executive
which he represents and obeys at Canberra is foster-
ing a deliberate breach of the second section of the
unanimously-accepted U.N.O. Article 20 without
eliciting a squeak of protest from him.
How Dr. Evatt, who says the objective of
socialisation is dead, and Mr. Ward, who noisily
believes that nothing can be accomplished except
through Socialism, can exist in the same “shadow
Cabinet” is beyond the comprehension of ordinary
minds. How industrial-groupers, vituperated by Com-
munists to the point at which some victims are yelling
for protection from the Federal Government, can live
in the same party with the section which is fiercely
attempting to destroy the groups, and which is so large
as to prevent the A.L.P. as a whole from officially
recognising them, is also a mystery, just as much as the
fact that the party is able to hold together at all.
The rats, of course, are at it. It is torn with
sectarianism, as is openly shouted in its councils. Its
branches in N. S. Wales are full of breakaways. It
has lost a Federal candidate in one of the most
interesting electorates in the Commonwealth—
Mackellar, held by W. C. Wentworth, the recipient
of every stone that the followers of the A.L.P., as of
Malenkov, can thfow at a “witchhunter” and “Red-
baiter,” and who has earned the extra hatred of the
party by proving so tenacious and so right in the case
of the unfortunate Mr. Arthur, a “Labor” Minister,
and by pressing for further inquiry into the associa-
"WHEN YOUR PANTS BEGIN TO GO"
tions or non-associations of “Labor” politicians with
Mr. Vitnell, a man with a “record.”
If the accusations of Mr. Sherley, the recreant of
Mackellar, are true, there is certainly unrest in the
party about charges of corruption in “Labor” politics,
about the associations of members of the party with
men like Doyle. And there is obviously general
bewilderment at the confusion of thought which exists
in the leadership about the objective which Dr. Evatt
is trying to strangle and Mr. Heffron (vice
Mr. Cahill) is trying to implement po the last Moscow
touch.
What does the average self-respecting Australian
think of a party, which claims to hold the monopoly
of all political virtues, and which, built round the
trade-union movement, finds it necessary, as happened
in Sydney last week, to arrange, through its executive,
a “trade-union rally” to “discuss a campaign for
clean union bajllots,” the main speaker being the
deputy Federal leader of the party?
Four N. S. Wales branch officials who resigned
from the A.L.P. said last week; “Not being hypocrites,
we can no longer belong to nor work for such a party.”
Keeping Workers Homeless
In nothing have N.S.W. “Labor” Governments,
successively under Premiers McKell, McGirr and
Cahill, failed the people of the State so much as in
leaving them without homes, rented or otherwise.
Bad though “Labor’s” history be in transport,
hospitals, road- and street-maintenance, muddling of
public works and the rest of it, all pales before the
sorry story of homebuilding.
Eight years ago, when the war ended and time
was taken to look round, it was estimated that N.S.W.
needed at least 80,000 new homes if it was to catch
up with the lag caused by the war-time interference
with building and meet the current demands of an
increasing population. This figure of 80,000, be it
understood, was not only a somewhat mean estimate ;
it ignored the building-rate that would be necessary
to replace slums and existing decrepit and condemned
houses in country areas. It took no cognisance of the
expansion of such places as Newcastle, Wollongong-
Kembla, Sydney’s fringe of outer suburbs, Orange,
Dubbo, Albury and other rural centres.
In 1946 other things became manifest. The war
had not only halted production of many peace-time
goods and left lags in furniture, clothing, household
appliances, motor-vehicles, machines, ships and
hundreds of other things; it had created vast new
demands for refrigeratorsi, washing-machines, farm
and factory plant, aircraft parts, chemicals and so
forth, and it had killed overseas sources of supply.
All this meant work for everybody who wanted it.
New factories appeared all over the place. And, in
addition to the new and growing force of Australian
workers thus called for, and who had to be housed,
came thousands of immigrants.
New South Wales felt both expansion and
housing-need far greater than any other State, being
the.largest, most populated and highly-developed of
the|n all. Its need of homes, naturally, was more
urgent than anywhere else.
In its dreamland of Socialism and with a Housing
Minister passionately devoted to the laying of
foundation-stones, with its love for the workers’ votes
at fever-heat, N.S.W. “Labor” under McGirr rose to
meet the need. It clamped controls on building-land
and building-materials, set-up a Housing Commission
to take home-building from the experienced but (in
its view) profit-stained hands of private enterprise,
and, with complete indifference to the Arbitration
Court, decreed that builders should spend only 40
hours a week at building, otherwise penalty-rates came
into force.
Is there anyone in N.S.W. over 15 years old who
doesn’t know what followed? How the daily rate of
laying bricks fell from about 750 to about 250? How
a huge blackmarket developed in building-materials?
How a similar blackmarket developed in building
work, when building-tradesmen loafed all the week
on Government building jobs on day-rates and worked
like furies at weekends at piece-work rates for those
who could find the cash to pay? How good building-
land was “acquired” by the Housing Commission and
left lying idle or was, perhaps, graced with a
foundation-stone over which the weeds flourished?
Instead of bricklayers, carpenters, plumbers and
their laborers busily at work, the building landscape
became cluttered with inspectors and planners. The
horde of people leaving the Housing Commission's
main offices at 4.30 p.m., Monday to Friday, had to
be seen to be believed. When people got tired of
seeing half-finished houses and complained, gangs
were brought in to finish the work, leaving unfinished
work in some other part.
The “Labor” Government set-up socialised brick-
and-tile plants. Worked on the good old 40-hour week
with day-labor, they produced few tiles or bricks, but
plenty of scandals and thumping financial losses. The
State became notorious for the strikes and hold-ups
staged by Communist-run building unions and unions
involved in production of building-materials. The
“Labor” Government displayed indifference, though
all the time decent unionists (in the majority) prayed
for legislation to give them secret ballots so as to
regain control of their unions.
On top of all this was rent-control. At first
imposed to stop rent-racketeering, it was as inelastic
as all official controls, took no notice of rising costs
and wages or of changing values, and is now an
impassable barrier against anyone building homes for
rent. It has paralysed the professional builder and
the private investor. People who once put their modest
savings into houses so as to have a small income from
the rent wouldn’t think of it now, because under rent-
control as practised in N.S.W. investment in house-
property for renting is a dead loss. And “Labor”
hangs grimly on to it as a vote-catcher.
The glaring fact is that, after eight years
of post-war “Labor” government—eight years of
unparalleled prosperity, of full employment, of expan-
sion in all directions —tens of thousands of N.S.W.
people are forced to herd themselves with in-laws,
whole families are jammed in single rooms, live in
caravans and tents and shacks, in disgraceful
“housing settlements,” in old military buildings,
disused sheds and shelters that an old-time swag-
man wouldn’t spend a night in. Many families are
forced to live apart, many are the victims of racketeer-
ing sub-letters (against whom the actual home-owner
has no protection), and still others spend a restless and
degrading existence flitting from “residentials” to
boarding-houses and less savory havens.
“Labor,” challenged now by even its own sup-
porters on housing, has taken to putting the blame on
the Commonwealth Government, which is no more
to blame for N.S.W. housing than it is for N.S.W.
transport deficits, potato shortages or Parliamentary
scandals. The plain truth is that “Labor” administra-
tion in N.S.W., though it claims to be a workers’
Administration, is callous of workers’ welfare where
that welfare conflicts with “Labor’s” Socialist theories.
That has been starkly proven in housing, and as things
stand the State will continue to have thousands of
homeless citizens while “Labor” rules.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Thornton and Short
In 1949, having done his best to persuade
the Chifley Government to bring down
legislation to control union ballots which
the whole countryside knew to be reek-
ing with Communist crookedness, Mr.
Menzies introduced a private bill. This
placed the Government in a dilemma.
The bill promised to force its hand —
which would have made it very unpopular
with people like Mr. Ernest Thornton,
whom it had appointed as a member of
the Prime Minister’s Trade-Union
Advisory Panel during the war and whose
expenses abroad it had paid when he
was “elected” on a rigged ballot to re-
present the Australian trade-unions at
a world conference. It would also have
hurt Mr. Jim Healy of the Watersiders,
another well-known Communist whom
the “Labor” Government had given
a paid job as a member of the
Stevedoring Industry Board. There-
fore it hastened to forestall the Liberals’
move by introducing a bill of its own,
which it knew could never be effectively
made use of. Passed into law, it was
in fact a dead-letter until Mr. Menzies
came into power and, in the face of the
fierce opposition from Dr. Evatt’s sturdy
followers, amended it and made it work-
able.
Among those who immediately made
use of it was Mr. Laurence Short, who
succeeded in turfing the Communist
leaders out of the Federated Ironworkers,
proving that they had been elected in
the past by means of forged ballots. Mr.
Short, however, being apparently of the
same politico-moral color as his leaders
in the Federal House, did not express
gratitude to the Menzies Government.
He expressed it to the Labor party,
which had done its best to prevent the
legislation being made effective.
Latterly Mr. Short and, his industrial-
groupers—some of the doughtiest
founders of the industrial-groups inci-
dentally having once been Communist
officials—have been attacking the
Menzies Government because it would
not take action to prosecute and punish
the Communists who are libelling the
officials conducting union ballots under
the Act. Mr. Short has been very fierce
in this kind of political campaigning.
And the sudden and impudent return of
Comrade Ernie Thornton, who arrived
over the weekend from Peking (leaving
behind his bullet-proof car and his
Sovietised bodyguard), has given him an
opportunity to go flat-out against
Menzies.
Speaking at a meeting called under the
leadership of Arthur Calwell, M.P., in
Sydney to initiate a “Campaign for clean
ballots in the unions” —which are the
very heart, core and directing influence
of that pure-souled body called the
“Labor movement” —Mr. Short said:
Mr. Thornton is a notorious Communist.
Mr. Justice Dunphy, in his report on the
conduct of the 1949 Ironworkers’ ballots,
said that had Thornton remained in Aus-
tralia he would have been forced into the
witness-box. Why can’t he be forced to
testify now? Why have the 4000 forged
ballot-papers referred to remained pigeon-
holed in the Attorney-General’s Depart-
ment without any action being taken to
uncover the perpetrators of the forgery?
The Government’s protestations are in-
sincere. It would seem that the. Govern-
ment has a vested interest in maintaining
Communism at a certain strength in Aus-
tralia so that it can use it as a bogy
at election-time. If the Government will
not act against the Communists, the Tabor
movement will have to act.
The Government, of course, had not
had time to act against Mr.. Thornton
when Mr. Short spoke. It announced
the next morning that it was considering
the position. If it can deal with him, no
doubt it will, as Mr. Short himself could
have done at any moment if he has
evidence on which to base a charge suffi-
cient to induce the police to issue a
warrant.
There also seems a chance to act against
Mr. Short. No Communist libel against
ballot-organisers matches his charge that
the Government is “maintaining” a
treasonable foreign conspiracy, whose
existence is costing this country an extra
£lOO million or so a year in defence, for
electioneering purposes. And if, as he
says, the Communists should be dealt
with for their slanders, so should he.
Mr. Menzies now has a chance to apply
Mr. Short’s proposed type of justice to
Mr. Short.
No Need For Panic
Although the prospects of successfully
marketing the coming Australian wheat
crop are confused by sundry develop-
ments at home and abroad, the country
doesn’t really face the dreadful fate the
Commonwealth Minister for Commerce
envisages. In fact, it might not be a bad
thing if growers and politicians are
forced to realise that things have changed
and readjustments, in policies and think-
ing, have become necessary.
From the time the United Kingdom
refused to sign the new International
Wheat Agreement, being well aware that
a great carryover of wheat existed in
North America and that British policy
was to get back to private trading in
food as quickly as possible, the 1940-50
conception of wheat-marketing was
finished.
Here in Australia it was also pretty
obvious that State Governments would
not unanimously agree to a fixed home-
price of 15s. a bushel. The two who
jacked up on it, ( Victoria and Queens-
land, held that the Commonwealth should
subsidise a home-price, though the people
their refusal to grant Commonwealth
price-fixing powers inferentially opposed
subsidies.
These aspects alone were sufficient to
end existing stabilisation plans built on
the notion that Australia could fix an
export price and force overseas buyers
to pay it and that Government control
and marketing of wheat was the only
thing. Much was made of the American
growers’ vote to continue the U.S.
guaranteed floor-price for wheat, but
little was made of the fact that this en-
SYDNEY NEWSPAPER
BATTLE—page 14
tails acreage-restriction and the piling-up
on farms of large quantities of wheat to
rot.
So when Mr. McEwen boomed last
Thursday that disaster faced us, the
Wheat Board would be powerless, that
“the wheatgrowers should close their
ranks” (whatever that means), and “this
is a most serious crisis for Australia’s
second-greatest industry,” he sounded
more like a bitterly-disappointed Socialist
than a Minister in a Government pledged
to support free enterprise and oppose
Socialisation all along the line.
He holds, too, that private merchants
could not finance purchase of the coming
crop, though why not isn’t explained,
and that we may have the, to him, dread-
ful spectacle of different prices for wheat
in the different States. That would bring
about the very competition which Mr.
McEwen’s Government —and a lot of
other people—believe in as being best for
both consumer and producer of any com-
modity. On the purely local aspect,
neither has done very well out of official
controls of things like potatoes, milk,
butter, fish and fruit.
All in all the wheatgrowers, who have
too long had to subsidise a cheap loaf
in Australia under stabilisation, might
have cause to bless the breakdown. It
had to come, being inevitable so long
as Australia remained a part of the free
world, and it is better for it to come
now, while demand and prices are still
good, than at another time when they’re
not. It is significant, too, that the wheat-
planners, with their plan falling to pieces,
are stumped for an alternative. That
always happens when thinking becomes
rigid.
Maoriland Finance Problems
When Nejv Zealand’s Prime Minister,
Mr. Sid Holland, came back from his
three-months trip abroad he met with the
hottest reception given for a long time to
a P.M. on his homecoming. Things
hadn’t gone too smoothly in his absence,
and on his return he found the country
more-or-less in a ferment over credit-
financing of capital works, high State
spending and the tax outlook.
Credit came into the picture when no
one could explain how a £65 million
national-development programme for the
current year (to March, 1954) could be
carried out under the Government’s
limited borrowing policy. Only a third
of the £22i million raised by the June
loan was left after knocking off £7
million-odd for stock converted and as
much again to pay off holders who didn’t
convert. A few millions had come in
from last year’s Budget surplus, and
current taxes should net part of the bal-
ance, but when everything, in hand or
estimated, was brought into the account
it didn’t come within cooee of meeting
the cost. As for costless credit, the only
Maorilanders who would hear of it were
the Socialists and their followers ; others
raised an outcry at the very suggestion,
and demanded that the Government
pledge itself to keep to sound finance.
Taxpayers wanted real, relief, not cuts
that would be cancelled out by inflation.
It was at the height of this speculation
on prospects in one form cx another that
Mr. Holland arrived. The P.M. is also
Finance Minister, and, for all his rugged
appearance, a sensitive type, easily nettled
by criticism. He frowned severely on the
members of his party and on Cabinet
Ministers who had made trouble while
he was away, xebuked them sternly at the
annual party conference and demanded
solidarity and loyalty to himself as
leader.
This strong-man pose quietened them,
but didn’t remove die causes of discon-
tent, which were bound up with failures
during the four years the Nationalists
had been in power. With a general elec-
tion only a year ahead, was it good
tactics to treat dissatisfied members,
anxious to keep their constituents happy,
like a lot of naughty boys? There were
some large chinks in the Government s
armor —inflation still flowing, prices still
controlled, imports still rationed, taxes
still high, an army of bureaucrats still
bossing people about and the housing
problem still unsolved —and it was
hardly the best policy, in all the circum-
stances, to order everyone to behave as
if everything in the garden was lovely.
There are times when the P.M. would
get further if he were a more attentive
listener, and this was one of them. He
would also please ’Maorilanders more if
he used a firmer hand with his 50 costly
State departments, one or two of them
a nuisance, which taxpayers have to pay
heavily to support. Although Govern-
ments never succeed in fulfilling all their
pledges, many of Mr. Holland’s friends
have felt that the record could be a good
deal better. The Budget introduced on
August 27 suggests little change of policy.
Catching Up at Last
South Australia is making an attempt
to bring the law and penalties for
breaches thereof into line with post-war
conditions. It has been apparent for a
good while now, not only in South Aus-
tralia, that many fines, with their maxi-
mums fixed in pre-war days, fail to act
as deterrent penalties or as adequate
punishments; some, indeed, merely con-
stitute a licence for offenders to repeat
their offences.
S.A. is going a little further than just
increasing penalties. Some offences which
were arbitrarily punishable by jail will
now be liable to fines. Also, “for the
maintenance of public order and the pro-
tection of the public,” some new offences
will appear in the State’s statutes.
Breaches of local-government by-laws,
for instance, .may now bring double the
old fines, and other changes are:
Assault or resist police, £lOO or 12 months
or both (old scale, £2O or six months);
hindering police, £5O or six months or both
(£lO or six months); disorderly, offensive,
brawling, creating disturbance, language
and similar offences, £5O or three months
(various lower penalties); insufficient or
no lawful means of support, 12 months
(three months); consorting, six months or
£lOO (three months); indecent behavior,
general penalty of six months or £lOO (£lO
or a month); soliciting by women, £2O or
two months (£5 or two months); thefts
from land, £5O or six months (£5 or one
month first offence, £lO or two months
subsequent offences); interfering with
homing pigeons, £2O (£5); posting bills and
otherwise defacing walls, roads and foot-
paths, £25 (£2); street musicians, £5 (£2);
unmuzzled, ferocious dogs, £25 (£2).
There’s a lot more, but that’s a fair
sample of the changes. It will be an
offence to refuse to pay for meals and
beds, to deposit rubbish on other people’s
land, to self-inflict wounds wilfully to
get hospital treatment, to put paint on
roads and footpaths, to train or exercise
horses on other people’s land.
It seems strange that penalties for
breaches of the acts to preserve native
birds and animals, trees and wildflowers
have apparently not been changed, though
this is a field calling for heavier deterrents
throughout Australia. All the same, the
S.A. move is overdue, and could well be
followed in other States. The police have
been too long complaining that their
efforts to maintain the laws are all too
frequently vitiated by the paltry penalties
the legislatures allow.
An N.S.W. Tax-grab
It’s a bit hard to understand why so
many people are astonished by the
Cahill Government’s intention to tax
land. Its record is such that nobody
should any longer believe in either its
sincerity or political honesty, and its
position has become so desperate that
it is more a matter for wonder that it
didn’t put on a poll tax or simply rush
through a bill to confiscate everything.
The plea that the land tax was to
encourage closer-settlement was either
childish or cynical. Probably it was a
bit of both. From the moment the public
realised that urban land was also to be
taxed the closer-settlement excuse
weakened. When it was remembered
that the Federal Government abolished
land tax because it failed in its object
to promote closer-settlement, and that
this “Labor” Government means to im-
pose a tax which the Canberra Govern-
ment had lifted, after joining in the Evatt
howling at the Commonwealth to reduce
taxes, the excuse collapsed.
However, the Cahills quickly aban-
doned their pose, and the new tax was
revealed for what it is—simply a stunt
to get in more money. Presently
Minister for Conservation Enticknap
was admitting in Parliament that the
money was wanted for “works,” and
followed this up with the now-familiar
whine that it was all Menzies’s fault be-
cause he wouldn’t hand over large lumps
of Federal revenue for the Cahills to
squander in their Socialistic and vote-
catching schemes.
This is exactly the same excuse as the
Victorian Cains give for introducing an
unwanted State lottery in Melbourne. All
the “Labor” Premiers now blame Menzies
whenever they have to explain deficits,
administrative failures and new or in-
creased imposts. It has been worked to
death in the past year or so, but
apparently none of them can think of
anything better.
All of which only proves further, if
any proof were needed at all, that this
land tax is completely unwarranted, reck-
less, and certain to affect living costs in
all directions, and will do no more than
get for the Cahills another £3,000,000 or
so a year to waste along with the mil-
lions already being wasted.
It is, too, that worst of all taxes, a
sectional tax. It is no doubt inspired by
the “Labor” hatred of the property-
owner, though “Labor” members them-
selves somehow acquire quite large
amounts of property. That even the
Cahills themselves feel a bit shamefaced
about it is shown in the manner of its
introduction and the excuse given for
its imposition.
Brisbane's Starving Bumbles
Two northern “Labor” Governments—
the State Government of Queensland and
the Government of the near-State of
Brisbane —exhibited splendid examples ot
“Labor” methods and ideals during the
past fortnight.
Greater Brisbane is a sprawling muni-
cipal county which is in a perennial state
of penury despite the fact that it cannot
provide its ratepayers with a satisfactory
water-supply and sewerage system. Last
year, when it acquired a “Labor
majority headed by Alderman Frank
Roberts, it was in such a financial con-
dition that the new Lord Mayor was
compelled to come to Sydney and go
down on his knees to the Commonwealth
Bank before he could feel assured ot
paying his staff. But soon the same Lord
Mayor and a crowd of hopeful colleagues
were observed joyfully increasing their
sslsncs
Brisbane is probably the only muni-
cipality in the British Commonwealth
whose aldermen have had the face to
vote themselves permanent salaries on a
living-wage scale. They began in 1925
with £4OO a year, dropped it during the
depression, made it £4OO again in 1937,
raised it to £5OO in 1945—with £lOOO a
year for the Lord Mayor —made it £750
in 1949 (Lord Mayor, £2000) and vice-
mayor, council chairman and three com-
mittee chairmen each £950. In 1951 it
went up to £950, with the Lord Mayor
getting £2200 and the other panjandrums
£ll5O. Then a few days ago the caucus
sat in secret and decided to increase pa>
again all round by £3BO, making the Lord
Mayor’s whack £2580, that of the vice-
mayor, council chairman and three com-
mittee chairmen £1530, and that of com-
mon or garden aldermen £1330.
The advance was said to be the result
of a recommendation from a special
meeting of the “establishment and co-
ordination committee.” Citizens’ Muni-
cipal Organisation aldermen who form
the Opposition were told only 45 minutes
before the matter was brought to council.
The Lord Mayor announced gaily that
the proposed increase would bring alder-
manic salaries up to 75 per cent, of the
proposed new emoluments of State
Parliamentarians —those worthies had
decided to add £2OO a year to their
salaries and also to their “allowances,
making them £1575, plus £3lO for ex-
penses.
His Ludship had every reason, as a
pure-souled democrat, to be gay, since
(Continued on page 7)


he is an M.L.A. (Nundah) as well as a
Lud Mayor. With his expected com-
bined rises he was due to have his pay
increased to a total of £5965 a year, or
£ll4 14s. 3d. a week. Each salary is, of
course, justified on the ground that it
is supposed to be a full-time job.
At this stage the Queensland Central
Executive of the “Labor” party rose up
and took action. It is the usual scratch
politbureau of delegates from party
branches, some of which are little more
than names, representing nobody but
themselves and the 36 unions which sub-
scribe to party funds. But it proved
itself the real Government of Queensland,
as absolute as Comrade Malenkov’s work-
ing committee in the Kremlin. It also
proved that the majorities in Queens-
land’s Parliaments are its abject slaves,
and bow the knee to its orders with all
the subservience of the palace eunuchs
of Abdul the Damned,
The Q.C.E. “directed” the aldermen to
rescind their decision and disgorge their
new booty. The committee which had
recommended the increases met again ana
recommended that they be reduced to
their old level. Squealing, the Council
majority obeyed. The Lord Mayor, his
“hands trembling” and “his voice some-
times unsteady,” led the retreat.
Then, after orating about the need to
“cleanse the Q.C.E. of those who are
using the movement for their own ad-
vancement,” he announced that he would
resign from the Labor party, to which
he has been “giving his best” for 21
years. He says he will “not accept dic-
tation from any body or organisation
which is not responsible to the people”
and because, as a “Labor” man, he feels
that “we must destroy at all costs” any-
thing likely to result in the establishment
of an “iron fist in our public life or of
Tammany Hall direction.”
Meanwhile the Q.C.E., by proposing a
party convention, had forced the State
Parliamentarians to back-pedal hastily
and reduce their claims for increases by
£2OO.
It is very awkward for everybody.
“Labor” has a majority sitting under a
rebel and newly “Independent” Lord
Mayor whom, under its rules, it is bound
to expel. The Q.C.E. is in an awkward
position, its dictatorship having been
exposed to the light. And it seems that
poor Lord Mayor Roberts will have to
scratch along on not much more than
£5OOO a year for his joint municipal and
Parliamentary duties, pending his prob-
able defeat at the next elections.
POLITICAL POINTS
Menzies is disposed to dump GATT
General Agreement On Tariffs jnd
Trade) if it stands in the way of Empire
preference. GATT was, so far as Aus-
tralia is concerned, a Dedman-Evatt
baby. World trade is getting tough, and
there is no room for Socialist pipe-dreams
in Australia’s present high-cost outlook.
• •
One of the things Adelaide Premier
Playford learned while abroad was what
has been tipped here for some time—
that the practice among Governments of
making agreements to trade in certain
commodities would “fade out quickly
now,” the countries affected would get
back to a trader-to-trader basis, there-
fore Australia would have to pull up
its socks and get to work to compete
in overseas markets.
• •
Saturday’s by-elections in Lang
(N.S.W.) and Corangamite (Vic.) went as
expected, the former to “Labor,” the
latter to Liberal. Results when this was
printed:
Lang.
F. E. Stewart (Lab.) .. .. 21,343
H. R. Thorncraft (Lib.) .. .. 16,922
Others 1,910
Corangamite.
E. D. McKinnon (Lib.) .. .. 18,146
A. C. McLean (Lab.) .. .. 16,548
Both sides claimed to be very pleased.
Captain Evatt claiming that scores in
both matches showed that his side was
the more popular, Captain Menzies assert-
ing that they showed his side to be re-
gaining popularity. In both electorates
the Government showed a gain compared
with the Senate poll.
•' •
New Zealanders have their taxes cut
by £6,500,000 in the Holland Budget,
though not by way of direct reductions of
income tax. It’s done by raising the
exemption figure from £2OO to £230,
increasing deductions for each dependant
by £l5, raising the life-assurance limit
by £l5 and cutting the income-tax 5 p.c.
surcharge by half. About 60 more every-
day items are free of sales tax, a wife
can now earn £lOO instead of £5O with-
out affecting a husband’s claim for £lOO
for her support. There are “concessions”
in gift-, stamp- and death-duties. What-
ever else he may hear from New
Zealanders, Prime Minister Holland at
least won’t have six State Premiers on
his back.
• •
Commonwealth Statistician Carver is
able to announce that Australian milk-
production rose by 16.8 p.c. in 1952-53
and butter by 24.6 p.c. Well, Dr. Evatt,
we can hardly blame Menzies for that,
can we?
• ■ •
B. S. L. Deane (Lib.) told the N.S.W.
Parliament the other day that compulsory
unionism would conflict with the U.N.
Declaration of Human Rights. So do
many other acts of the N.S.W. Govern-
ment —notably marketing and transport
Acts —but nobody need imagine that the
Cahills will change their ideas because
of that.
• •
Two of those Hollway “rebels,” Den-
nett and MacLeod, were allowed in to an
L.C.P. meeting in Melbourne. Previ-
ously Dennett and Tovell had tried to
get in but were blocked after making
frontal and rear attacks. Anyhow, after
getting in they were coldly told they
were out —of the party —and if they
stayed the meeting would adjourn. So
once more the “rebels” withdrew and an
uncertain peace befel. ,
• •
As it was put in a Melbourne paper:
“The Government, under its plan for
transport this year, will eliminate com-
petition between State and private enter-
prise and between private enterprises
themselves where the service to the public
suffers.” Apart from the fact that it is
pretty hard to find the public suffering
when competitive business vies for their
custom, past performances suggest that
this simply means the Cains will elimin-
ate private enterprise in transport.
South Australia’s Opposition couldn’t
find a reason to oppose Premier Play-
ford’s decision to increase the Cabinet
by two, making it eight. It’s been six
since 1908, since when S.A. has come a
long way both in population increase,
industrial expansion, and expanding
future. By comparison even eight is a
small number. N.S.W. has 15 (16 till
Arthur resigned), Victoria 14, Queens-
land 11, W.A. 10 and Tas. nine, and S.
Australia is challenging Queensland’s
claim to be the third State.
Playford’s decision to add two more
Ministers to the six who’ve been con-
ducting the State’s affairs was inevitable.
As it was the Premier himself was
administering half a dozen departments
and his colleagues anything from two to
four. The new men will be Education
(an Assembly member) and Roads (a
Leg. Council member). Opposition-
leader O’Halloran agreed with Playford
that it was better to have Ministers
A.L.R
fg
A FIELD FOR RESEARCH
answerable to Parliament than to have
boards, which were not.
• •
“Bankrupt Seen in Brisbane” —Brisbane
“Courier-Mail.” It turned out to be a
Melbourne company-director, not a State
Minister for Transport.
• •
The new “Labor” member for Dulwich
Hill in the N.S.W. Assembly, C. Mallam,
who was a private bus and ferry
operator before becoming unofficial
transport adviser to the Cahill Govern-
ment, says that Government should call
in “competent businessmen” to help run
the State’s transport services. But would
they be any more successful in displacing
the union management than the Govern-
ment?
• •
Boarded by reporters when their argosy
reached Fremantle on the way home from
the Coronation doings, N.S.W. Premier
Cahill and Opposition-leader Treatt dis-
closed very cagily that both had learned
something from the trip. Pressed, Cahill
said, “At this stage I’m not prepared to
state my views.” Treatt darkly muttered,
“I’ll have something to say when I get
to Sydney.” The subject: Drinking con-
ditions in their home town.
• •
Cain proposes to operate the Vic.
lottery without ticket-selling agencies,
tickets to be bought at head-office or by
mail-order. The latter entails extra ex-
pense in envelopes and stamps and a
long wait for delivery of tickets. In
N.S.W. there are over 5000 agencies and
a head-office where tickets can be bought
by the bale, and the demand is terrific.
The punter is an impatient brute, and the
Vic. sample is much more likely to go on
buying his tickets from his favorite Other-
State lottery, as it won’t cost him more in
stamps and orders. The amount of
money that Cain is likely to divert into
his own coffers won’t buy an extra bottle
of cough-mixture for the Victorian
patients.
• •
“X.S.”: Victorian Premier Cain can
have this idea for one free ticket in his
first lottery: Make the lottery compul-
sory, every man, woman and child in
the State to have a bob-in weekly.
Everybody would then have an interest
in the thing, though everybody wouldn’t
win prizes. Then, to fulfil Labor s
Socialistic tenets, he could make anyone
who won a prize hand it back by taxing
him 19s. 6d. in the pound. Thus every-
body would be happy or, at any rate, no
unhappier than they are at present.
• •
Vic. Premier Cain has announced
another casualty, the Board of Works’
plan for a “better” Melbourne. Cain said
his Government was more concerned with
increasing food-production and pushing
on with water-conservation, etc. Before
it becomes law the clan must be approved
by the Public Works Minister and the
Governor-in-Council. It is unlikely to
reach the latter. When the plan was
mooted it was here said that it would
never be implemented, but that didn’t
stop the authorities concerned freezing
properties all over the outer suburbs and
spending £200,000 on “research” and
“planning.”
• •
Moussadek’s fate should be a warning
to those who are inclined to heed the
results of plebiscites in countries where
the Government can influence the voting.
A few days before his overthrow Moussa-
dek held a referendum asking the people
for authority to dissolve the Persian
Parliament. Voting was open. The
result was about 2,000,000 for Yes, 1206
for No. Before a week was out thou-
sands who must have voted for him were
parading the streets of Tehran seeking
his blood.
• •
The notorious Ernie Thornton, former
Communist boss of the Ironworkers’
Union, whose secretaryship raised ques-
tions about balance-sheets and whose
election in 1949 reeked of “fraud, forgery
and irregularity on a grand scale,”
according to Justice Dunphy, of the Arbi-
tration Court, landed in Sydney on Friday
as “Secretary-General of the World Fede-
ration of Trades Unions,” a Communist
show. Thornton was no sooner back
than Laurence Short, present Iron-
workers’ secretary, demanded his arrest.
• •
English Derby-winner Tulyar was a
main issue in a recent Irish by-election —
Tulyar was bought for a large sum by
an Irish stud. De Valera’s opponents
worked this in as an injustice to the un-
employed or something, but the electors
returned De Valera’s man in a copter
(overall majority 2226 in a poll of just
under 6000). Doc Evatt is backing un-
employment as an election-winner —but
he has no horse.
• •
The remarkable mind of Dr. Evatt
was displayed at Earlwood (Sydney),
where its owner told a by-election
audience that the Chifley Government
had reduced taxation five times between
the end of the war and the 1949 election.
He seemed astonished and peeved to
realise that talk of tax-reductions couldn’t
persuade enough people to vote for
Socialism. That’s why his, is such a
remarkable mind.
Evatt not only quotes figures that suit
him but ignores those which tell the
truth. He told the same audience
that “in two years, instead of
an expansion of employment, there were
60,000 unemployed.” He was blaming
Menzies, of course. But only the day
before the Commonwealth Statistician
put the total of people receiving unem-
ployment benefits in Australia at 24,703
during July, and July was the seventh
month in supcession that unemployed
figures fell.
• •
Reported from Athens that two
women buried for 12 days in their earth-
quake-ruined house in the lonian Isles
came out alive. They had lived on raw
potatoes. No Sydney or Melbourne
housewife, would be able to do that if
her house fell in—the Potato Boards have
seen to that.
• •
In a normal country a change in the
price of beer wouldn’t be worth noting,
but beer is politics in Australia, so the
fact that beer prices have been de-
controlled in Brisbane and that 6oz. and
Boz. glasses will probably go up id. is
duly chronicled in bold type in Brisbane
newspapers. What will surprise Sydney-
siders is that anyone still drinks from
such small glasses.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Harrovian”: Virginia Cowles’s life
of Sir Winston reminds me that as a
child at Harrow I was in a tuck-shop when
in came Spencer Churchill in his
“charity-tails.” The senior boys then
wore tail-coats with the flat-topped
straw-hats. Winston, though he could
not get his remove to the upper school,
was allowed to wear them because he
was such a big fellow for his form. The
shopkeeper had put on the counter a
specimen of pelargonium in a pot. It
had one choice pink-andwine-colored
flower in bloom. Now, although pelar-
goniums grow like weeds here, they need
great care in Britain; and the owner had
cosseted this one ready for the Harrow
flower-show. Winston calmly picked
that lovely flower, put it in his button-
hole and walked out without a word.
The owner’s language was unsuitable for
the ears of this infant.
“Simon Scrawler”: Soldiers, sleeping
our first night on the deck of a naval
craft in Darwin Harbor, whistles and
blurting loudspeakers at dawn meant
nothing to us. But sailors came from
everywhere. “Wakey ! Wakey! Lash
and stow!” bawled a huge petty-officer.
“Shut up, mug!” muttered a sleeper be-
neath the paravanes. “I don’t have to get
up—l’m a soldier.” “Oh! Sorry,
soldier.” And quietly aside, “Let ’er
go.” A jet of water blasted the soldier
from his blanket. Next morning we
lashed and stowed when the Navy did.
“I keep TELLING him to wash his ears, doctor."
“Melbn”; Helicopters will bear cauli-
flowers and onions to the roof of Mel-
bourne’s planned ten-story Victoria Mar-
kets ; the softly-whirring blades will
emphasise the changing Melbourne scene
when set against the squeaking wheels of
Chinese market-gardeners’ carts that used
to waken me in the small hours not so
long ago, bearing in their produce from
the rich river-flats at Heidelberg, eight
miles from the city. The patient old
nags never stirred out of a walk. The
journey took three hours, and the gar-
deners didn’t get back to their holdings
until midday or later. Ah Loong always
slept solidly through the home-trip, and
it was a favorite sport of the lads of
Collingwood and Fitzroy to turn the nag’s
head round; a creature of habit, he
would plod solemnly back to the mar-
kets. Mechanised Digger-farmers at
Werribee put the Chinese out of business,
and now the flats are a swamp of
suburban houses.
“Stop banking when you turn corners — you're not flying a Meteor .”
“Pip Tok”: “How much did that cost
you?” facetious friends often ask the
subject of a photo-in-the-paper: a Dutch
migrant learned the answer to a penny
in Perth Industrial Court. An apprentice-
painter, in partnership with his father,
he let his 15-year-old sister help on a
job, A daily printed the story with
photograph, describing the girl as the
only professional woman painter and
decorator in the State. Five months later
the Painters’ Union prosecuted the
brother, and he was fined £2 for having
employed non-union labor and for having
failed to keep a proper time- and wages-
record.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bilbrad”: “Macnell’s” personal para-
graph on the Spurgeons (B. 12/8/’53)
reminded me that it was during cruiser
Australia’s stay in the Med. that the
“Black Wolf” introduced “music while
you work” to those of the ship’s company
engaged in “paint ship.” A recorded
musical programme was poured out
through loudspeakers placed at points
where the paintbrush artists were thickest.
As an R.A.A.F. mechanic looking after
the ship’s aircraft moored a short distance
away during this operation, I witnessed
the extraordinary spectacle of matelots
in a variety of paint-ship rig on staging
slung over the side brushing on paint
with all the gesture, rhythm and posture
of a ballet. And the sound of the heavy
slaps of the brushes which punctuated
the last line of the chorus of the hit-tune
of that period carried far across the
harbor. That hit tune, by the way, wa^ f
“Who’s afraid of the big bad wolf?,” and
the suggestion of a smile on the “Black
Wolf’s” face when he looked over the
side at his brush-wielders confirmed our
idea that he took quite an interest in
drawing up the musical programme.
♦jt
“Feng-Shui” ; Witches on broomsticks
could hardly have caught the two Can-
berra jet bombers that left Laverton
(Vic.), the other day ; one to fly Laverton-
Colombo-Christchurch-Laverton in 30
hours, with a full day in Colombo; the
other to fly Laverton-Darwin-Perth-
Christchurch —8320 .miles —in 16 hours,
52 minutes. Speed is the modern super-
stition. But it used to be witches. Belief
that old women could injure, kill, blast
crops and cattle, and cause storms at sea
with spells or potions or by removing
their stockings was about as rational as
belief that progress consists in break-
fasting in Melbourne and dining in
London on the same day. Belief in
witches caused the deaths of some 60,000
old women in several centuries; belief
in speed caused the deaths of more than
60,000 in U.S. and Britain in one year.
* ❖ ❖
“Sam Jnr.”: It is a pity that word-
formation follows such an exact pattern,
for when it is necessary to find a noun
for the new sexual perversion of collating
intimate information in graphs and tables,
it is unfortunately certain that the word
will be “Kinseyism,” a barbarous and
awkward arrangement of syllables. A
much better choice for the weakness of
the mathematical voyeur would be the
simple derivative “kinsy.” It is a word
which could easily and appropriately
lend itself to such useful forms as “kin-
sical,” as in the phrase “the kinsical
meanderings of Malinowski.” And to
judge by the widespread interest shown
in the new aberration it should have con-
siderable currency.
❖ ❖ ❖
“An Chaidh”: The appearance of
Inveraray Castle on The Bulletin cover
(B. 12/8/’53) coincided almost exactly
with the burglary of the castle. The Duke
of Argyll, who had been in a habit of
showing visitors where he kept his valu-
ables, one morning found that another
visitor during the night had taken them.
The Duke himself is known as Mac
Cailean Mor (son of the Great Colin),
that being his patronymic as chief of the
Campbells, or Clan Diarmaid as they are
known, being descended from Diarmaid,
one of the Fenian heroes who met his
death from a boar’s poisonous bristles
(hence the Coat-of-Arms, A Boar’s Head,
fesswise, couped, or). Diarmaid ran away
with Graine, who was to be the wife of
Finn or Fingal. The name Campbell
means “wry-mouth,” the nickname of the
first prominent Campbell in history,
Gillespie. The Campbells have always
been great religious reformers, a Camp-
bell being a leader of the Covenanters,
while the powerful restoration-movement
generally known as the Church of Christ
had as its prime movers Thomas and
Alexander Campbell. Incidentally, the
most famous Campbell of all was Rabbie
Burns. If Rob Roy’s sporran is kept in
Inveraray Castle then he must have pos-
sessed two money-bags, as Sir Walter
Scott collected one ; it, with his dirk and
musket, is kept in Abbotsford, I saw
them there two years ago,
♦l* <£♦
“D.R.”: “I’ve lost my ticket!” ex-
claimed the young lady we had befriended
on the long trip to Sydney. She went
through her handbag again; we searched
under the seat. Bill finally persuaded
her to take his, and watched her through
the barrier. Then he went to pass the
collector himself, “My ticket’s been
handed in,” he explained. They argued.
Bill quoted the number of his ticket.
The collector searched among the tickets
in his tin ; found the ticket with Bill’s
number —and Bill won that lottery.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pawang”: Curious examples back the
complaint of C.5.1.R.0. chairman, Dr.
Clunies Ross, that universities are turn-
ing out specialists who know more and
more about less and less. Melbourne
police are demanding a full-time doctor
to test drunks. At present their suspects
tend to sober-up before they can find a
doctor. So some enthusiast who started
out on the path of Pasteur and Lister
will end by smelling drunks’ breaths eight
hours daily. I met a man who ten years
before had taken first-class honors in
architecture, and asked how he was doing.
“I’m a specialist in cupboards,” he said.
“I noticed there was a great demand for
hospitals; hospitals need cupboards; so
I concentrated on cupboards. I’ve been
sent round the world twice to study new
ideas in cupboards.”
“J.J.A.”: “Nakhoda’s” fishing (B.
12/8/’53) probably centres round a gold-
fish-bowl. Drinking itself is only part
of the joy of fishing. Everyone knows
that fish do not bite until all the crates
are empty, and that most of the fish
bought home have bruises on their beads
where they have been hit by dead-
marines.
<£♦ ♦£+
“Columba”: “Sleeping on duty” (B.
9/8/’53) might almost be charged against
my city cousin, whose room I shared on
holiday in the long ago. Devout at her
prayers, though not averse from a bit of
gaiety, she sank on her knees late after
a dance while I fell heathenishly into
bed. When morning wakened me, she
was still kneeling there, fast asleep.
“Nunk”: Publicity is being put out for
a city-guide system; a colored revolving
map, Bft. by 4ft. in a glassed frame. A
guide-rule related to code-numbers in
street- and business-indices at the side of
the map will locate “any street or firm
in city or suburbs” in “a matter of
seconds,” and show where to find “any
business, firm, factory, hotel, police-
station, railway-station or transport ter-
minus.” A Norwegian invention, the
system is claimed to be in use in 24
countries, the guides being set up at
street-corners, banks, hotels, aerodromes,
etc. It costs a firm sixpence a day to be
on the trade-index. Sydney’s first will
be put up on September 15; 60 are
planned for the city, and 200 for the
suburb. Let’s hope they will be more
efficient than many of our street slot-
machines, which have been responsible
for so many people losing their weigh.
HEY NONNY!
“Dr. Alfred Kinsey’s findings on the behavior
of married women in his Sexual Behavior in
the Human Female have met with criticism from
married women.”
Lie no more, ladies, lie no more;
It’s merely waste-endeavor;
Alf Kinsey’s added-up your score
Of marital behavior;
A fourth of you have been untrue;
You’re far too blithe and bonny.
Converting woe to pitching woo
And hey, nonny nonny.
Write no more novels, write no mo’
Of dumps so dull and heavy,
So full of sexual thus-and-so,
And so infernal leafy ;
’Twas bound to come, that all the
sum
Of being blithe and bonny
Should rest in one compendium
Of hey, nonny nonny.
Sing no love-ditties; waste no wind
In kissing spouses; since we
Have found your kisses far too kind,
But less to kith than Kinsey ;
Should we say '‘no,” of course you’d
go
On being blithe and bonny.
Suppressing all our sounds of woe
With hey, nonny nonny.
Fear, then, no sermon, nor address —
One feels, should we encourage
You onwards in unfaithfulness.
Neglecting brooms and porridge,
You’re so perverse, you’d then re-
verse
To staidest matrimony —
One hardly knows which state is
worse,
But . . . Hey, nonny nonny !
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


“S.G.”: The scrupulous fairness of
British law caused a strange injustice to
a New Australian. His contribution to
proceedings at Perth Police Court was
restricted to saying “not guilty” four
times. A newspaper reported him as
unable to speak English. That hurt —
since coming to Australia he has majored
in English at the university.
❖ ❖ *>
“Uramao”: When Wilkie Collins
wrote Man and Wife, Cassells, who had
accepted the work, objected to “damn.”
Collins agreed to drop the disgraceful
expletive, but warned the publishers
against taking this as a precedent. Later
another publishing firm objected to
“damn” in another of his novels ; but
Collins refused to take out the two
“If y ’ call THIS religion, I'm done widdun .”
“damns” in the story. “I refer to Scott
and Dickens,” he wrote; “writers con-
sidered immaculate in the matter of pro-
priety. Damn is where damn ought to
be in pages of both these masters. In
short, I am damned if I take out damn.”
Nowadays he would be ’d if he took
out .
* ♦♦♦ *
“Enn Kay”: The constable on point-
duty during lunch-hour at one of Sydney’s
busiest intersections is not distinguished
for his courtesy. Regular users of the
crossing he supervises have long noticed
how he pounces on anyone aged, crippled
or short of sight who puts one foot off
the pavement before his signal, or who
displays any tendency to dawdle across
his august vision: can’t recall ever hear-
ing his stentorian voice raised either to
an attractive girl or to a man of his own
size. Be that as it may ... in spring-
time a venerable, white-haired and
gartered bishop not only embarked into
the road on the opposite side of the
crossing to where the yellow lines are
painted, but chose a moment when the
traffic was against him to do it. Once
out among the cars and lorries he dodged
and darted with all the agility of a
paper-boy. And the policeman? He
stood watching with his mouth so far
open his chin seemed likely to cop it
from the toes of his size-tens, and not
a word out of him.
“5 G.R.”: Ted Scorfield’s sketch of
an Arab tapping a camel for water (B.
12/8/’53) recalls a popular fallacy that
the camel can go without water for seven
days. The ordinary oont has to be
watered daily. In marches along the
N.W. Frontier our mob usually had 182
camels to lump the heavy gear, and on
the march they would exude a meaty
bag from their throats, take a few sips
and gurgle the thing back again. At
evening-watering, the mule, always fas-
tidious about water, never about food,
would be watered upstream; then would
come the horses and, as far downstream
as possible, the camels. In Palestine,
when the Australian horse proved he
could carry nineteen stone for 72 hours
without a drink, the Camel Corps,
mounted on desert-trained camels, had to
admit their training had fallen short a
few days.
♦S ❖ ❖
“Illtyd”: To bolster his theory about
the ancient Pictish origin of clan Hay,
“An Chaidh” uses Scot place-names of
Eire (B. 19/8/’53), which tends to weaken
his own case. In the late sixth and
early seventh centuries, Scots from Eire
founded a little kingdom which embraced
the Hebrides, Skye and Argyll. Ref.:
Green’s History of the English People,
pages 10, 42 and 178. Hay undoubtedly
springs from one of the Flemish knights,
who came from Brussels, Ghent and La
Haye or La Haye Sainte. One of the
leaders, Gisebert of Ghent, who was
related to Richelda of Hainault, founded
his colony north of the Forth in the
eleventh century. On the score of being
an ancient clan. Hay cannot approach
the ancient lineage of the O’Connors,
O’Neils and McConnells of Eire, the
Gryffyths of Wales and the Sampsons of
Cornwall. If we do accept “An
Chaidh’s” own theory, then Hay springs
from Scottish migration, and not from
the original Pictish inhabitants.
“B.”: Let “Cauboy” look to it! His
statement (B. 5/8/’53) that Allan Wilkie,
in moments of histrionic stress, was
prone to spray both himself and his
vis-a-vis would be readily conceded by
the actor’s closest friends. A.W., him-
self, would probably acknowledge the
soft impeachment with a disarming grin.
But woe betide the miscreant who spelled
his front monicker with a single “1”! It
was well known among members of the
Big Fellow’s co. that any aspirant to a
place behind their footlights who
addressed his application to the boss and
omitted doubling the consonant would
certainly fail in his chance of a rehearsal.
and would be lucky to receive more than
a frigid acknowledgment of his letter.
Although Allan Wilkie hailed from
Liverpool, his family roots were nurtured
in good Scottish soil, where the
Christian-name Allan is invariably so
spelled. Alan is the variant considered
good enough for the despicable Sassen-
ach!
“Icinit”: Ask any radio-listener what
words of the Coronation service have
stuck in his memory, and it’s odds-on
he’ll say “ your undoubted Queen.”
Until recently the kid next door has been
leader of the gang of eight- to ten-year-
olds responsible for most of the co-
“Now, no peeping, doctor !”
operative mischief in our street; but his
Dad has been shifted to another part of
the State. Last night he was handing
over command outside my back gate,
where a heap of gravel makes a rostrum.
The gang, in “space-suits” and variously
bristling with gats and machine-guns,
made a circle, the leader-designate stand-
ing beside . his departing chief on the
rostrum. I could not catch most of his
speech, but it ended clearly with “I now
present you Jackie Smith, your undoubted
boss” ; at which the gang came to atten-
tion and shrilled more or less in unison,
“God save Jackie.”
* ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: At least the ledgerkeeper with
chilblains (B. 19/8/’53) did not increase
his employer’s stationery-account. The
opposite trouble in Broome and Port
Hedland cost money: sweaty paws
rendered the lower half of each ledger-
page so pulpy as to be useless. Other
account-books as well. Bank-ledgers for
current accounts cost £5 in those days,
so it was quite an item.
❖ *
“Bo”: With commendable solicitude
for such relatives as may still be at the
mercy of the secret police behind the
Curtain, my afternoon daily, in its
periodical interviews with migrants who
have finally reached freedom, certainly
does its best to cover up all the tracks.
Disclosure of his name would be fatal,
so of course he is referred to cryptically
as “Mr. S.” It appears from the interview
that Mr. S. was, say, a radio technician
living in Tallinn with his wife and three
children when the Russians took over.
He had had an arm blown off by a
land-mine which exploded near his house
just before the war finished. Two
brothers, and an uncle who was a high
postal official, had been bumped off by
the Russkis. Well, the relatives need have
no fear even if the Soviet Embassy sends
back the Press-clipping in the diplomatic
bag, for that withholding of the name
will trick the torturers —perhaps his real
name didn't start with an S, anyway.
After all, there must be thousands of
one-armed radio technicians in Tallinn
having a Wife and three children, and
who had two brothers and a high postal-
official uncle bumped off. What a com-
fort anonymity can be, especially when
the disguise is of that same cunningness
employed in the play by Captain Apple-
john when he changed his name to Apple-
jack!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Rooster”: My most awkward bath
was during the Tobruk show. An open-
air turnout beside a water-point, shower
rigged overhead, the affair was several
times the target for German bombers.
They caught me, stark-naked. I did the
best thing I could —flopped in the water,
not having time to turn off the tap. When
the dust cleared I rose, plastered in
muddy slosh, the lather still on my scalp,
an inverted mud-pie with cream-icing. A
joker with a camera —an evader of
Security Regulations—took a slick snap.
That film cost me 5000 piastres.
&
“Brick E.”: The strangest of archi-
tectural survivals must surely be the huge
scrolled hinges on the doors of most
churches and public buildings, and used
by architects attempting an imposing
entrance to a private home. Most lay-
men are amazed to hear that the real
work is done by an invisible hinge—if
the door is not too heavy, an ordinary
butt; the ornamental “tees” are merely
plates screwed to the face of the door.
There is no excuse for architects failing
to see the incongruity of a door opening
inwards when the hinges are on the out-
side. A glance at the hinges on home-
garage doors, which swing out, and the
door of any outhouse, which opens in,
will convince anyone who wants to
check-up.
**»
“Pat”: At half-past-ten our hostess
went to make a cup of tea, and the
Austrian sitting beside me murmured,
“And after we drink the tea, we go—is
that not so?” I said I didn’t really know ;
we’d “see how things went.” Continental-
fashion, he raised despairing hands:
“You Australians! When first we came
here and were invited to dinner we rose
to leave at ten. The good lady was almost
in tears: ‘But you haven’t had a cup of
tea!’ she kept saying. So we stayed for
the tea, and then when we said ‘good-
bye’ again she let us go easily. So when
we next invited friends to dinner we
remembered this cup of tea and gave
them one when they had stayed long
enough. They drank it and stayed
another two hours! And now my wife
refuses to ask any more Australians for
dinner because she cannot understand the
rules.”
♦J< *
“Transporticus”: When he called on
me in Singapore, on his trip to celebrate
his newly-acquired M.D., we talked of
Australian capitals and communications,
and I couldn’t help offering him a baited
hook: “Hear you’ve been having some
interesting developments on the Trans,
railway.” “You mean the diesels?” he
said. “Oh, yes. Cut a day and a half off
the trip.” I edged the landing-net under-
neath him: “That’s remarkable. Now,
when I did the trip last, back at the end
of -1940, we left Melbourne Sunday night
and were in Perth Wednesday morning.
Take a day and a half from that and
you get Tuesday morning Monday
night only a day from Melbourne to
Perth? That’s fast, even for diesels.” I
had him on the bank flapping. “But you
couldn’t have done that!” he said. I
know the schedule I quoted him became
a war-casualty; but it does rile me to
find his generation looking down on
mine when it takes them £200,000-worth
•f American diesel to equal the time
mine made with £17,000-worth of Aus-
tralian coalburner.
MYSTERIES
“Despite all our advancement and knowledge,
the unsolved riddles still facing mankind are
legion.”— ‘World’s News.”
The mysteries around us
Are such to astound us
And test all our powers of solution:
How five-year-old Graham
So far’s escaped mayhem —
He learns (need I add ?) elocution.
'V'
When chiacked by someone
You must seem' a dumb one,
For under it, silent, you’ve smarted;
Then repartee crushing
Upon you comes rushing;
But —why not till after you’ve parted ?
We all have been puzzled
Why dogs should be muzzled
While jaw-freedom’s given to wowsers.
And how fourteen-stoners
Are bossed by their owners.
The small, scrawny wives wearing
trousers.
This mystery, we’ll wager
Will rate as a major
One : how Parliamentary member
His time can be killing
(Although he’s quite willing )
In recess from March to November.
Few mysteries deeper
Than this: why the sleeper
Who wouldn’t wake up if you kicked
him,
Is quite so unbending
In all his contending
That he’s an insomnia victim.
But chief of our wonders
Is why one who blunders
So oft and in way transcendental
Is always protected,
And mostly selected
For much higher job departmental.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Still keeps going
when the rest
have stopped’’
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
While completion of the Melbourne
Shrine of Remembrance forecourt —a
memorial to the fallen of the late war —
has been held up through lack of funds,
a memorial to the same cause has been
built by a single pair of hands at Mount
Beauty, the State Electricity Commis-
sion’s hydroelectric project. It’s a solid
granite cenotaph, built by foreman C. S.
Miller, who devoted his spare-time to
it and used blocks taken from S.E.C.
tunnels. He is not an ex-serviceman.
Inspected hereunder, Allan Grundy,
one of the big valves of the N.S.W.
radio and electrical retail-trade, a man
whose ready grin, quizzical look and
energetic intelligence are as well known
among Sydney retailers as the store he
represents—Anthony Hordern’s. Born in
Junee (N.S.W.), Grundy got his first
managerial job at 18 in a small hard-
ware store in the Riverina. He’s since
warmed the chairs in various managerial
offices in his climb to his present berth
of group-manager of Hordern’s electrical
department. In 1945 his firm thought
enough of him to send him off to the
U.K. and America, after new ideas for
GRUNDY, of Hordern’s
developing the electrical retail business.
The firm seems to have been justified,
Grundy having increased his section’s
turnover more than twentyfold. His
know-how is always on tap as a
councillor of the Radio and Elec-
trical Retailers’ Association, and he
works particularly hard for the Retail
Traders’ Association, of which body,
under knight Norman Nock, he’s acting-
chairman.
Flight-Lieutenant W. H. Scott, the
sound-beater of Fenner’s sketch (B.
22/7/’53), duly beat sound in the Aus-
tralian-built Sabre in its first official flight
through the barrier over Avalon airfield
near Lara (Vic.), when 5000 spectators
heard the “boom-boom-boom” when it
reached supersonics in a 10,000 ft. dive.
Scott landed 15 minutes later after an
amazing exhibition of vertical climbs,
rolls and level flying, as imperturbable as
Fenner found him when she made the
sketch at H.Q. and asked him if he had
volunteered for the business. “It was
just a job,” said this master of Air Force
understatement. “I was duckshoved into
it, just as I was duckshoved into the
Army.” He showed no fatigue after his
flight, but said, “Under the clouds it was
a bit rough.” Over the radio he said
before the big bang, at 47,000 ft., “I’m
going down now —you should hear the
sound in 15 seconds.” Afterwards, he
said, “Did you hear it? —I didn’t.”
Bendigo, his birthplace, was in sight When
he broke through.
“Cauboy”: Touching the busting of
the sound-barrier in Melbourne. Super-
sonic test-pilots are the highest-paid flyers
in the U.S., and aircraft-companies there
call for tenders for the job. One com-
pany recently called for tenders for a
seven-months job and the lowest sub-
mitted was £7OO. Flight-Lieutenant Scott
belongs to the R.A.A.F. but is on loan
to the Commonwealth Aircraft Corpora-
tion for testing Sabres as they come off
the production-line. He gets £l2OO p.a.
A horse authority of international
fame will judge jumping, dressage and
other equine events at the Royal Mel-
bourne Show next year—Commandant
R. Moeremans D’Emaus, secretary-
general and hon. treasurer of the Federa-
tion Equestre Internationale of Brussels.
He has judged great horse-shows over
the world, was a member of the Belgian
Olympic committee and rode mounts
himself at the 1920 Games at Antwerp.
One of the technical delegates sent to
London to approve fences and courses
for the horse-events at the 1948 Olympics,
on present indications he won’t be needed
in that capacity in 1956 in Melbourne.
Eighty-two the other day, John Tait,
of J. C. Williamson, is as enthusiastic
about the theatre as he was half a
century ago when he stepped up from
Allan’s music-shop in Melbourne into the
entrepreneur business. The biggest money
he ever earned outside his then-meagre
wages was ten-bob from a virtuoso for
getting him out of a financial fix —it only
involved cashing a cheque, and the bank
was the other side of Collins-street. Tait
subsequently brought Melba, Butt,
Pavlova, Chaliapin, Paderewski, Harry
Lauder and dozens of other eminents to
Australia, and he was in on the ground
floor, with the movies. At one time he
could often be seen standing gazing at
a vacant allotment, speculating on its
value in another 100 years; his real-
estate operations helped to pay for many
of his theatrical losses. J. C. Williamson,
incidentally, is only a symbol, but a
young Englishman who once walked into
one of John Tait’s Melbourne theatres
didn’t know that. He told the manager
that he had met Mr. Williamson in
Sydney, a charming man who’d said that,
if he wanted to go to any of his Mel-
bourne theatres, he would only have to
mention his name. “Young man,” said
the manager, looking at him coldly, “I
helped bury Mr. Williamson before you
were born,”
“Uramao”: Dr. Donald H. Black, a
New Zealander who- followed in the
atom-splitting footsteps of Lord Ruther-
ford, is to head the mission of the British
Ministry of Supply in the coming atomic
experiments in Australia. A Nelsonian
like Rutherford, he was educated at
Nelson College, thence went to Canter-
bury University College, and, 30 years
ago, to Cambridge, where he caught up
again with Rutherford at Cavendish
Laboratory. During his three years in
Australia Black will be scientific adviser
to Britain’s High Commissioner.
Recently the new anti-submarine
frigate Quadrant (ex-destroyer), one of
the most modem sub.-killers in any Navy,
exercised off Jervis Bay under control
of the Joint Anti-Submarine School —
Navy and Air Force. There were enough
gongs on her bridge to ring a peal of
valor; Captain S. Beattie, Squadron-
Leader A. B. Boyle, Lieut.-Commander
H. D. Reid, Wing-Commander R. N.
Dalkin, Lieut.-Commander J. S. de M.
Hill, Squadron-Leader L. H, Williamson,
Wing-Commander I. S. Podger, Squadron-
Leader J. E. Gerber and Captain Rodney
Rhoades. Among them they mounted
one V.C. (Beattie’s), six D.F.C.’s, two
George Medals (both held by Reid), three
D.S.C.’s, and two D.S.M.’s. Her crew
call the atom-age sub.-killer U.S.S.
Quadrant —Usually Sails Sunday.
When two hikers were lost in the
snows of Mount Donna Buang (Vic.),
Army, Air Force, Forests Commission,
Board of Works, police, local bushmen,
holiday-makers, university students, the
Federation of Bush Walkers and scores
of other organisations, plus a helicopter,
assisted in the rescue. It was once again
Jackie Lewis, the veteran Board of Works
ranger, whose sixth sense told him where
the couple were. Jackie has tramped
over those hills he loves for half-a-
century and knows every tree and pretty
well every wildfloweivpetal, and there
isn’t a shrub thereabouts that isn’t repre-
sented in his garden, whence they go
round the world to naturalists. He has
the same uncanny knowledge of the
behavior of bushfires as he has of snow-
drifts. Once he found a crowd running
away from a conflagration, stopped them,
studied the blazing wall of approach-
ing fire and led them back towards it. He
had seen an exit where nobody else
could. Seventy, he walked 36 miles over
some of the toughest snow country in
Australia in the two days of the search.
Died in Melbourne on the eve of the
centenary of the firm his great-grandfather
founded, Alan Michaelis, cousin of Vic-
torian Speaker Sir Archie Michaelis,
and one of four brothers on the
board of Associated Leather, The first
Michaelis, Moritz, landed in Melbourne
in 1853 and opened a small softgoods-
shop on the site of Hosie’s Hotel, and
then started tanning leather in Footscray.
The company now has Commonwealth-
wide associations and exports its leather
to most parts of the world. The original
home of the Michaelis family in St.
Kilda, built in 1870, is one of the few
stately homes left in Melbourne, and is
stiff preserved in its early colonial flavor.
At 6ft. 4in. upwards, and an inch or
so less sideways, William Parry-Okeden
is a bit big for a jockey—but then there
are no jockeys in the Australian Jockey
Qub, of which he’s been secretary since
1946. Apart from the fact that his grand-
dad owned, and rode, the first winner
of the Queensland Derby, P.-O. had no
particular interest in racing, and was
recommended for his present post by a
desert-mate of his, one Morshead, on
whose staff P.-O. was at Tobruk. He
was also at Milne Bay, Buna and Sanan-
anda, took over his unit when the C.O.
was wounded, and was later selected to
join Wavell’s staff in India, instructing
in jungle-warfare. Thence he returned
to New Guinea, in command of the 30th
Battalion. Now ranking lieut-colonel,
with D.S.O. and a “mention,” William,
a cousin of Richard Parry-Okeden, the
steel-man, hails from a station near Chin-
PARRY-OKEDEN, of the A.J.C.
chilla (Q.), and, like most of the sons
of property-owners up there, was educated
at the Toowoomba Grammar School on
the Downs. The Bulletin talked to him
in the A.J.C. board-room, wherein hang
valuable oils of most of Australia’s
famous racers, including the original of
Carbine, father to those calendars seen
in barber-shops and other punters’ parlors.
Join the Army and see the world!
Since enlisting as a private in New
Guinea, Major Ralph Connor has served
11 of the past 13 years overseas. He
left Rabaul with the first N.G. contin-
gent, and embarked in Sydney for the
Queen Mary’s maiden voyage as a
trooper, attached to Red Robbie’s 19th
Brigade Headquarters. The convoy was
SAILING SOLDIER
diverted from the Middle East to Eng-
land, so Connor disembarked for a
Cape-to-Cairo train-journey. His train-
ing in Palestine was highlighted by an
occasion remembered among 6th Divvy
stories, when he sent for the brigadier.
Brigadier: “Orderly!” No response.
Connor: “Orderly. The brigadier,
quickly!” Orderly, presenting himself
in the brigade-commander’s office:
“Excuse me, sir, Sergeant Connor wants
you in the orderly-room.” Greece,
Crete, Syria, Darwin and Townsville
followed: then, after a stint at h.q, in
Melbourne, off to ’Frisco, in the Queen
Mary to the Clyde, and next two years
and a bit on the Control Commission in
Germany, and a chance to compare two
occupations with a posting to 8.C.0.F.
in Japan. Met on leave in Sydney,
Connor’s wondering whether he’s fated
for more travel, and to experience his
third army of occupation in Korea.
Into the Silence:
At 83, at Williamstown (Vic.), Captain
Robert Jobling, D.S.C., a former member of
the Marine Board. He gained his D.S.C.
when, as a minesweeper-commander, he diverted
Beatty’s battle-fleet round a North Sea mine-
field in World War I.
At 88, in Sydney, Alfred Goninan, G.O.M.
of the Newcastle steel-industry, well before
B.H.P. reared its stacks there. Born at St.
Just, near Land’s End in Cornwall (and lastingly
proud of the fact), he came to Australia 60
years back, started at Port Pirie, then took on
mining-engineering at Hill End, near Bathurst.
Newcastle first saw him in 1900, when he
bought a bankrupt engineering-firm, expanded
it till it burst its geographical bounds, and
shifted to Broadmeadow, where the present
large concern now stands. Not long after War
I, driven by restless energy, he helped found
Commonwealth Steel, and was still its chairman
of directors at 83. At the end he was still a
director of Non-Metallics, Ltd., the Granville
(Sydney) firm.
In Melbourne, Mrs, Gladys Mackay, widow
of Cyril Mackay, one of Australia’s leading
dramatic actors and one of the first in movies.
In Rabaul, at 38, Harry Lovett-Cameron.
planter, sergeant of commandos and valiant
coastwatcher of Bougainville and New Britain.
For eleven months on Bougainville Lovett-
Cameron reported enemy movement by radio,
till he was betrayed by a native. He escaped
under attack, and the betrayer was later handled
by loyal natives. Under constantly pressed
attacks on his new posts, the coastwatcher was
finally taken off by an American submarine.
Not long afterwards he was back, this time
on New Britain, and remained thereon, con-
tinually harassed, for a further 12 months. His
only decoration is this commendation from
Commander J. C. McManus, his C. 0.: “Ser-
geant Harry Lovett-Cameron was one of the
finest in the service.”
In Adelaide, at 76, Napier Birks, managing-
director of Charles Birks and Co., which his
father started as a small drapery firm in 1864
and which grew into one of the largest m the
State. One of the most successful S. Australian
motor-business organisers, Napier had been
governing-director of Motors, Ltd., head ot
the State’s Nuffield distributors and chairman
of the local board of directors of Mercantile
Mutual Insurance. He took time off to attend
World War I.


PAPER-BAG TROUBLE


ABORIGINALITIES
of 60 and 70 playing football in the
middle of the street or flying paper-kites ;
the really juvenile topped off a day at
the State School with a few hours of
study under a Chinese teacher, going on
to graduate in law or medicine or music.
Some established vegetable-gardens on
the river-flats, surrounded by levees to
keep out the annual floods, which every
year broke through them. As the water
rose, the Pats gathered in their shack
invoking and propitiating their joss, and
refusing all invitations to leave for higher
ground. When, however, the bank broke
and the waters poured in, Joss was im-
mediately carved into small pieces with
the axe, reviled for his inefficacy, and
flung into the flood; his late adherents
then mounted the roof and howled dis-
mally until rescued by the police-launch.
There is, apparently, no Chinese render-
ing of “Experience teaches”—-or, if there
is, that lot never heard of it.
* * * *
“Brick E”; We found the snail stuck
on the crown of a brick tunnel we were
repairing. The arch spanned 34ft. and
rose 15ft. from the ground. That snail
must have started from the grass, crawled
4ft. vertically, then followed the under-
side of the camber for about 115 ft.,
doing the last lap upside-down. At
school I was taught that a snail’s method
of locomotion consists of laying a slimy
track, then sliding along it, but “I’ll
see fly” use that system when crawling
along the underside of an arch. At
any rate, the snail bad reached a spot
about 3ft. beyond the centre, then stuck
himself on and died there. The cause
of death was the subject of our lunch-
hour debate. Starvation seemed to be
the most feasible explanation—it must
have taken him months to reach that
spot, and he couldn’t have eaten bricks.
But Paddy broke the debate up in dis-
order by his theory: “I suppose the
blood rushed to his brain!”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The Leichhardt Box
expedition to the Rawlinson Ranges has
discovered a race of nomads out there
who wear no clothes, shiver all night
around their fires, and seem to be starv-
ing ; and people who’d starve if they ever
got out of sight of a delicatessen are
suggesting that clothes be dropped to
the nomads from aircraft, and asking
the Native Affairs Commissioner can’t
something be done for them. The best
answer is Yes—they can be left alone.
Nomads have inhabited those regions for
the last 20,000 years at least, and if
nakedness is their choice it’s one that’s
been imposed by climatic and other con-
siderations. The nights in the desert are
cold —more, they can be freezing—but
during most days clothes aren’t needed
and speed and mobility are; and if the
nomad, shivering at night around his fire,
“Harbel”: In ’4B, on the wildest New
Year’s night I can remember, a 30ft.
yacht got off her course and struck the
rocky shore just north of Black Head,
Gerroa (N.S.W.). The crew of three
managed to scramble to safety, but for
the rest of the night violent seas crashed
against the craft as she bumped and
lurched on a flat shelf. In the morning,
with a rising tide and falling barometer,
the half-stranded, listing yacht seemed
doomed. Time after time the waves
surged up under her stem, spun her,
lifted her bodily and crashed her down
on the rocks beneath the keel. The
rudder shattered; the propeller became
a tangle of twisted metal; a spar high
up on the masthead splintered with the
jarring impact of the planking against
the shelving rocks. Yet, when the craft
was salvaged, taken overland to the
Parramatta River, and launched again,
her planks were not even sprung. They
were shaped from Australian bluegum.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: It doesn’t take long for
someone to take a prominent news-item
and work a new term into the language.
Young Dan from out Ootha way was
talking to me in the bar. “How’s the
place going?” I asked. “Not bad,” he
replied, “We averaged round ten-bob
for the wool last year and we just got
through the lambing pretty well. Lost
a few from crows down in that flat pad-
dock by the waterhole. Wouldn’t have
lost them if it hadn’t been for Thallium.”
“Thallium! What’s he, a new Aus-
tralian?” “No,” drawled Dan, “he’s a
slow-working dope.”
♦ * * ♦
“Riverine”: Quite a few of those
Chinks mentioned by “Gulliver” (B.
19/8/’53) congregated in settlements out-
side towns on the Victorian side of
the Murray. One such “Chinatown”
flourished for many years on the
outskirts of Wahgunyah, preserving in a
couple of rows of wooden houses many
of file traditions of the homeland until
the older generation died out. They had
their “joss-house,” and their festivals; the
ancients sat upon the verandas of their
shacks, watching the antics of youngsters
“Told y' it Was only snakes ."
ever thinks longingly of some covering
which he left at the previous night’s
campsite, the impression doesn’t last long
enough to prompt him to carry any cover-
ing he might have, after the sun rises.
This nomadic race which we regard as
backward survived all the extremes which
climatic changes over the ages have in-
volved, and all told they’re probably as
happy as the average city or suburban
dweller —or were, until a member of
Parliament drove a jeep across the sand-
hills and brought them the gravest danger
they’ve faced in 200 centuries.
♦ * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: The sailing feats of
the Cutty Sark —which is now to be pre-
served on the Thames at a cost of
£250,000 —have been exaggerated so much
that many people assume that this
staunch old square-rigger was the fastest
of all clippers on the Australian run.
The latest to back the claim is the Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau’s News Service,
which says, apropos of the ship’s wool
cargoes carried to the U.K. in the ’Bo’s,
that she “often logged 17 knots and
averaged 365 miles a day.” The wool
people have overlooked such clippers as
the Lightning, of “To-Hell-or-Melbourne-
in-60-days” fame, which was burnt with
a cargo of wool at Geelong in 1869, the
year “The Sark” left the stocks. The
Lightning could do 21 knots and her two
day’s runs of 436 and 430 miles were
never equalled by a sailer. The James
Baines, the second-fastest sailing-vessel
to come to Australia, came closest with
428 miles, and on her maiden voyage in
1853 she ran from London to Melbourne
with immigrants and mails in 63 days.
On that voyage she was commanded by
an ancesstor of mine. The feats of the
Red Jacket, Marco Polo, Sovereign of
the Seas and other bygone wooden clip-
pers would outdo the Cutty Sark any
day. A composite small ship, Cutty com-
peted mostly with iron clippers of a vin-
tage which were not so fast, though very
nearly so, in light winds in the tropics.
**♦ . •
“P.0.M.C.”: “B. A. Ker’s” dog re-
moves his tucker-bowl from its time-
honored place (B. 19/8/’53) because he
has lately been affrighted, trodden-on, or
otherwise upset. The trouble, whatever
it may be, is now indelibly associated
with that particular spot. Naturally he
doesn’t fetch the bowl when his master
comes out with the nightly doings (even
if he had been taught to retrieve he
would not do it) because, in the dark,
he confuses the saucepan in his master’s
hand with the bowl itself. Dogs are
probably the most naturally intelligent of
all the lower animals but they aren’t con-
structive or inductive thinkers. While
always adoring their masters in spite of
their faults and minor cruelties, dogs
“Are you coming courting, or aren't you ?”
insist upon maintaining their own inde-
pendence. So that when “8.A.K.” returns
to the house for a light, the hound isn’t
yelpingly accusing him of stupidity.
Failing to comprehend the reason for his
master’s strange behavior, he raises a
hullabaloo out of sheer anxiety for his
own welfare.
* * * *
“Mingari”: Yes, plenty of “hatters”
preferred the solitude of lonely outcamps
(B. 19/8/’53), and for an easily under-
stood reason. Located anything up to
40 -miles or so from the homestead, their
duties clearly defined, they soon estab-
lished their own routine for riding fences,
checking watering-places and so on, and
to a large extent were as much supreme
on their own territory as the Boss was
over the whole station. “My sheep,” “my
fences” and “my country” were phrases
they used as often as the owner, and they
often knew a lot more about them than
he did. Once worked on a big outback
property at a time when all the camps
were linked with the station by a party-
line —and great was the v grumbling
thereat from the boundary-riders, who
saw it leading to a lot of pestiferous
interference with their freedom of action.
They also saw the end of the day-long
ride to the homestead to report a broken-
down windmill, with a well-cooked meal
and an evening of yarning in the men’s
hut at the end of it—but ah objections
faded when the phone saved the life of
one who, desperately ill with pneumonia,
just managed to ring the station and
gasp “I’m crook!” before passing out
on the floor. Incidentally, I’ll bet
“Warrabulla” is a Westralian —never
heard the term “outcamp” used anywhere
else, the usual appellation being “boun-
dary-rider’s hut,” which isn’t half so
descriptive to my sand-filled ears.
* * * *
“Jackstay”: Westralia’s amateur fisher-
men aren’t the only ones to use whale-
oil as a lure (B. 19/8/’53). Kip Farring-
ton, world-famous as a big-game fisher-
man, refers in his writings to the use
of dolphins (also members of the whale
family) for creating a “slick” and thus
bringing sharks and other game-fish to
the vicinity. The stunt is first to harpoon
a dolphin (“porpoise”), which is hung
over the side of the fishing-boat, the body
being lacerated with a scraper to liberate
the oil, which drifts away down the
current —and that’s one reason why I’d
never become a big-game fisherman. It
may be effective; it may result in the
ultimate destruction of quite a few
sharks; but even if it meant the death
of 10 times as many of the monsters I
still can’t see that there’s anything of
the sportsman in a cove who’d kill a
dolphin, an animal so trusting that it
will come right alongside to meet its fate.
MARSUPIAL WOLF
Somewhere in the unfooted hills, where the
endless winds are aching
Across desolate places, where wallaby-tracks
wind,
Where the flail of the mad Antarctic gale sets
the forest shaking,
He lurks, with the last of his kind.
Long ago they left the tussocky levels,
The wet ravines where their being had its roots
With the native-cats and the fierce Tasmanian
devils
And the little bandicoots;
Where the black bluffs cling to their snowy
kirtles
Far into spring, where the waratah used to
grow
And the dim grey-beard moss dripped from
the myrtles
—Vanished now —ever so long ago.
Still to his clayey tunnel the wombat keeps;
The black-cockatoos screech all day as they
strip
The stringybarks for grubs, and the ringtails
peep '
Down from their cradles high in the tea-tree
tips.
Still there are big grey possums about the place;
Or a wallaby, startled, leaps the fallen logs.
But the “tiger” fled before the traps and the
chase
And the terrible hunting dogs.
Back, still back, always a little more,
Away from men and the deaths that they
dispense;
Through the “celery-tops” to the fierce shore,
With the sea their only fence;
Back through the home of eaglehawk and
harrier,
Where the thin gums slant and the spiked
hakeas rub
Crooked elbows with the all-defying barrier
Of “horizontal” scrub.
Granite scarps where mad gales clink the
shingle;
Waterfalls spouting green and amethyst;
Cliffs where the ocean-smoke and cloud-smoke
mingle
In bitter salt sea-mist—
Somewhere back in the hills, between and under
The dun light of the day and the evening’s
violet,
He lives with the last of his kind in the caverns
of thunder.
A legend? Not quite— not yet.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


“Bass”: American maps of Westralia
show a place in the Gibson Desert named
Buzoe’s Grave, but when a Yank wrote
to Perth Archives asking about the origin
of the name the locals were stumped. It
isn’t shown on W.A. maps, although there
are names suggestive of tragedies scat-
tered throughout the outback. But it was
finally tracked down. It was named by
Giles in 1874 and commemorates one
of his travelling-companions—a camel.
Giles brought Perth its first view of
camels when he entered the city at the
end of his overland trip from Adelaide,
and the citizenry went to the causeway
to meet them. The camels were quartered
underneath the newly-erected Perth Town
Hall and treated as guests ; but for weeks
after their arrival Perth’s entire
Caledonian population were looking for
the leader of the band which greeted the
explorer with a rousing rendition of “The
Campbells Are Coming”!
* * * *
“Fons”: “Sebak’s” Irish-Australian
who demanded that “The Battle of the
Boyne” be played at his daughter’s
wedding-reception (B. 26/8/’53) must
have had a grandfather from Ulster.
The Battle of the Boyne was an Irish
defeat; the song hardly the thing to
delight true Irish hearts: “Knee-deep in
Irish blood, and waist-deep in slaughter.
Oh Lord, we gave them Paddy’s hell, at
the Battle of the Boyne Water.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat was against our
Melbourne job from the start. “Couple
of blokes like us,” he said, “can’t settle
down to inside work. Take this factory.
Man never sees the sun all day, don’t
know if it’s blowin’ or rainin’ or what’s
goin’ on outside.” “Who wants to know
what’s going on outside?” I demanded.
“You big hump. The pay’s good, the
hours short and a man don’t have to kill
himself like when he’s contracting up the
bush.” “Pull your head in,” he said.
After that he didn’t say much and when
our first week was nearly up I chipped
him. “Well, it’s not so bad, now, is it?”
He thought, “Well, I’ll tell you this,” he
said, “there’s one good thing about it.”
“What’s that?” “It can’t last for ever.”
* * ♦ *
“Kelms”; “Gulliver,” who “watched
the Mallee blow past the window” (B.
5/8/’53), reckons that’s what will happen
in W.A. when we open up our light lands.
It won’t —because it happened in the
Mallee and, to a much lesser extent,
in W.A, itself. Result is we’re very
erosion-conscious over here. I’ve cleared
this light land —as “Gulliver” says, you
simply roll and burn it—and I’ve seen
patches of it, just a few thousand acres
in a block, cropped for years without
any sign of erosion. Wind-erosion
occurs where the country is totally
cleared for miles at a stretch and the
winds have an open go. That has already
occurred in parts of W.A. where, in the
late ’twenties, cockies in established areas
brought every acre they could under cul-
tivation. I’ve seen farmers in good rain-
fall areas carting water from the town
dams because they hadn’t left enough
uncleared land to provide a run-off for
their dams. Then they stocked with
sheep; the wind did the rest. Now, in
places, they’re replanting the forests they
burnt, and even using native legumes to
stock-up the soil with nitrogen; and
when the light lands are opened up, as
they will be within the next few years,
there’ll be belts of timber left to check
erosion. We’ve learnt a lot about hand-
ling soil —fortunately, very largely from
someone else’s experience.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Melbourne Univer-
sity is experimenting with titanium, and
aircraft-manufacturers all over the world
are interested. Titanium has a wide
variety of uses, and it’s becoming valuable
as more are found for it. Titanium-oxide
is a white-paint pigment with three times
the opacity of whitelead and twice that
of zinc-oxide, and is widely used in
enamels. You’ll find it, too, in toilet
preparations, linoleum and rubber.
“ We’ll have to Wait for the
fortissmo.”
Titanium-carbide helps to make
chromium-steel, and it goes with
molybdenum-carbide into steel for
extradiard cutting-tools. In different
forms it’s been used in arc-lamp elec-
trodes to give a steadier and more in-
tense light; the ceramic industry finds it
handy in making cream-colored and
honey-yellow glazes ; and some goes into
the manufacture of glass. False-teeth
owe their natural color to it, it goes
into the making of some dyes, and some
of its compounds are used for bleaching
textiles. One of its war-time uses was
in smoke-screens, and it’s one of the
agents in sky-writing. Crystals of
titanium-oxide are more brilliant than
diamonds, but not as hard. If the Mel-
bourne researchers discover any more
uses for it I hope they’ll let me know.
If it turns out that it can cook, I know
a bloke who’ll marry it.
» * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I’m not sure that the
pumpkin-vine which James Hackston
slew, in verse (B. 5/8/’53), didn’t have
the last laugh after all. For it’s a moral
“Hacko” took the pumpkins and placed
them on the roof of the back-veranda,
alongside the season’s jam-melons and
rhios. By the time the cook gets
around to them an embryo rust-
patch will have formed beneath each
vegetable. Time, condensation and future
generations of pumpkins will do the rest.
Still, I suppose it works out much the
same: put pumpkins on the roof and
they’ll gradually but surely rust holes in
the iron; don’t put ’em there and the
first gust of wind will lob the veranda-
roof down in the bottom of the back
paddock.
*'* * *
“Faarex”: If “Koreelah” (B. 3/6/’53)
wanted some real drafting practice he
should have been with me one August
morning riding the mail truck from Eulo
to Thargomindah looking for a job. As
we approached one of the Dynevor
Downs outstations the driver remarked
casually, “Y’ might get some lamb-
markin’ here.” He pulled up beside the
yard, and jerked his thumb towards the
race, just visible through the dust.
“That’s the boss, on the gate.” As I
walked around and stood beside him, I
noticed he was using four gates, the main
mob of ewes going straight ahead;
a smaller lot, apparently all fly-struck,
the other side of them; rams in the next
lane ; what looked, through the > dust-
haze, like stragglers on the far sidb, and
the lambs coming out beside the boss’s
right leg. “Any chance of a job?” I
asked, admiring his smooth gate-work.
“Shut up!” he roared. “Can’t y’ see
I’m busy?” At last, with the ewe-pen
filled right back to the draft, he shoved
a leg in the race and turned to a vacuous-
looking jackeroo who stood by with a
notebook and pencil. “Three eight seven
lambs, four six five ewes I think, but it
might be four six six; don’t know how
y’ expect a man to do the job right when
some galah keeps nattering to him,” he
added, fixing a jaundiced eye on me. He
had been drafting five ways and counting
two.
* * * *
“Spinner”: Twelve months ago the
police clamped down on two-up in
Kalgoorlie, and W.A.’s new Labor
Minister for Justice now deplores the
hardship inflicted on the goldfields people
by this “very great injustice.” Skipping
the incongruity of a Justice Minister
rebuking his own police force for sup-
pressing an illegal game, it is still hard
to follow his reasoning. Though the
“school” was a big one, it’s safe to bet
that not one per cent, of the people of
the place were regular patrons. So if any
hardship has been felt it wasn’t wide-
spread or representative. There’s even
less basis for the Minister’s contention
that two-up is one of the fairest gambling
games known. If two men toss coins
to decide an even-money bet, that’s fair ;
if the winner agrees beforehand to pay
a portion of his winnings to a third man,
whose only claim is based on the fact
that he thought of the game first, then
it isn’t fair. And that’s how two-up
operates. The ringkeeper must win and
can’t lose. The players, as a body, must
lose as much as the ringkeeper wins.
Take away the ringkeeper and you
haven’t got a game? Perhaps not. But,
if you did, it’d come mighty close to
being legal.
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: My friend backed-up his
argument that country people are chang-
ing : Recently he had visited a mountain-
valley town we had both known years
before. In conversation one of the
locals had asked casually: “Which road
did you come in on?” When told the
creek road the local had looked amazed
and exclaimed: “Well, you ought to
take a ticket in the lottery—a truck was
bogged in the creek-crossing for three
days last week! ” “And that’s how much
they’ve changed,” concluded my cobber
sadly. “Twenty years ago it wouldn’t
have been good enough to put a warning-
sign up or even build a barrier in front
of the ford —they’d have sidetracked
travellers at the turn-off. Now they
just let you take your chance, and tell
you you’re lucky—if you are!”
* * * ♦
“Solitude”: The night the copy of
our local rag arrived, Seventyfiver slowly
and carefully perused the news-items.
By the end of the week he could
recite even the church announcements.
Finally, I arrived in with the new issue,
but they got misplaced, and it was the
“And from now on cut out the fancy-dress !”
old paper with which Seventyfiver even-
tually settled on the box by the fire. Ten
minutes passed. Half an hour. Seventy-
fiver turned the sheet inside-out and went
on reading. With the hands of the bat-
tered alarm showing 9-o’clock, he laid the
paper aside and began unlacing his boots,
“Don’t say nothin’ about that stock-sale
bein’ postponed, Sol,” he remarked,
“Must be still on.” His boots hit the
floor noisily. “See the store’s still adver-
tisin’ them strong pants, too. Must’ve
got a good stock this time. Think I’ll
get meself a pair.” He stood up,
stretched, and eyed the paper thought-
fully. “Y’ know, ol’ Sandy reckons it’s
waste O’ money buyin’ that paper
reg’lar,” he mused, “but . . . well, I
dunno. Reckon it pays a bloke t’ keep
up-t’-date with things.”
* * * *
“Sackville”: Rusty is a nearly-full-
grown kelpie of boisterous, affectionate
habits and few vices; it was blundering,
not addiction to car-chasing, that
brought him into collision with a truck.
One second he was somersaulting in
the dust, and the next he was bolting
into the scrub in blind, yelping panic.
He was missing until nine that night,
when, a pathetic object with a front-leg
hanging loosely, he came limping around
on the sleep-out veranda. The obvious
diagnosis was confirmed by the vet., and
now Rusty is getting around with his leg
in a thick wad of plaster. Perhaps it is
merely the position of the injury giving
the impression, but the hound certainly
seems to hold up his gammy leg for in-
spection when he three-foots to greet
visitors. Lawson once coined the apt
simile: “As proud as a boy with a
broken arm.” I’m inclined to think that
“A kelpie with a broken leg” might have
been nearly as fitting.
“Mingari”: Quite a few of the stern
and rugged pioneers of Westralia’s nor’-
west, in the last century, had their tender
moments of romance, with the result that
several now-distinguished names are often
the property of quite undistinguished
light-tan descendants with a bar-sinister
on the boomerang. It’s the result of their
female forebears’ slavish copying of the
white man’s custom of passing his sur-
name to his offspring, and even in the
not-so-distant past has led to a few
embarrassing moments. Consider, for
instance, the not-infrequent plight of the
squatter returning from Perth with a
blushing bride to find a lot of de facto
relatives whom a couple of months earlier
he had chased into the scrub returned in
force, and in their Arcadian simplicity
rallied to give him a rousing welcome.
Imagine the state of mind of the new
Mrs. Woolbales when a dusky Venus
greets her, as a prelude to cadging
tobacco, with the information that she,
too, was Mrs. Woolbales once. Victorian
ladies, however, must have been more
understanding than we’re led to believe,
as most of them managed to let by-blows
be bygones, and the third and fourth
generation of their children cquldn’t have
cared less that their 42nd cousins were
padding barefoot around the native camp
whilst they cut a dash at the races,
Concubinage waned as white settlement
spread; the distance-diminishing motor-
car dealt it a serious blow, and now the
aircraft, bringing the purple joys of the
city within easy reach, has probably
destroyed it in all but a few conservative
pockets—and Science chalks up another
achievement.
MOUNTAIN MIST
Rain cracks silver whips before the portals
as we draw near: „
this is a dream for mountains, not for mortals,
unwanted here.
The road slides underfoot as we move slowly
into the dream.
Veil on veil unfolding holds us wholly,
through which there seem
such dark ghosts beckoning, urgent, lonely,
calling us on, „
as would take us and forsake us only,
silently gone.
Faint forms flicker on the blurred precision,
falter and pass:
dull eyes peer and focus, clearing vision
as through dark glass.
Veil to veil relinquishes us coldly
on to the plain,
straight road, cars passing. O, we leap boldly
to meet the ram.
N.s.w.
E. NORMAN.


The Past
and
the Future
»„}' 1
7
It was in Australia in 1877
that Frederick York Wolgeley
patented the first sheep shear-
ing machine which changed
the outlook of the industry!
A\
USTEALIANS have played
-—' / * a prominent part in invent-
ing and perfecting many of the
things which have proved so im-
portant in the development of our
nation.
This bank, too, was founded, in the
early days, to assist the progress of
the Colony. To-day, still owned and
controlled by Australians, we offer a
modem and efficient banking service
to those who seek it and to those
who wish to take part in the further
development of our country.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
1 with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
ENTERPRISE EXPLORATION
CO. PTY. LTD.
Requires the services of
DIAMOND DRILL
FOREMEN
for work in Northern Australia
Men with experience and capable of
supervising a number of drill rigs
are offered lucrative and interesting
•work.
Living conditions are good.
Apply in writing, stating full name
and address, date and place of birth,
and name of last employer to; —
The Secretary,
ENTERPRISE EXPLORATION
CO, PTY. LTD.
95 Collins Street, Melbourne. C.l.
m
m
I
choose mm
ARUBRA^
You’ll like it from the
moment the salesman shows
it to you.
You’ll admire the new range
of ultra-smart shapes and
colours.
Yes when the time comes
to buy your new hat, choose
an Akubra.
Akubra is equal in quality
to the best imported hat, but
costs much less.
AKUBRA
AUSTRALIA’S FAVOURITE HAT
A 4.82
Business. Rollery. Etc.
SYDNEY NEWSPAPER BATTLE
In Sydney “Daily Telegraph”
of last Thursday morning Frank
Packer, man of muscle in
Sydney journalism, made an
offer, on behalf of his Consoli-
dated Press, Ltd. (publishers of
daily and Sunday “Telegraphs,”
“Women’s Weekly” and
“A.M.”), to the shareholders in
Associated Newspapers, Ltd.,
which puts out the “Sun” (daily
and Sunday), “Woman,” “Pix,”
“People” and a number of other
periodicals. The offer was to
buy the ordinary shares in
Associated at 20s. each. Early
last week they were selling at
16s. 3d. The day Packer pub-
lished his offer they rose to
19s. 9d. Consolidated chairman
(N. B. Theodore, son of the late
E. G. Theodore) commented,
apparently pursuing a story
started a week or so previously
to the effect that London “Daily
Mirror” was involved in the
deal, that Consolidated had no
partners, overseas or local, in its
proposed transaction.
That was just the beginning.
Before the day was out chair-
man John Butters, of Associated
Newspapers, was telling his
shareholders not to dispose of
their holdings; acceptance of.
Packer’s offer, said Sir John
Butters, “would not be in the
best interests of the company,
its shareholders, employees or
the public, and none of the
directors will sell any of his
shares.” Butters went on to say:
The offer of Consolidated Press,
Limited, merely amounts to an
option to buy, as they have stipu-
lated they required 90 per cent, (or
such smaller percentage as they
may determine) before any offer is
valid.
It will be impossible for Consoli-
dated Press to secure anything like
the required percentage for the
following reason:
Negotiations have been proceeding
for some time with John Fairfax
and Sons Pty., Ltd., proprietors
of the “Sydney Morning Herald.”
with a view to the integration ot
the whole of their individual facil-
ities, and I am glad to announce to
shareholders that these negotiations
have been completed and, subject
to Capital Issues consent, John
Fairfax and Sons have agreed to
purchase the whole of the unissued
ordinary shares in Associated
Newspapers at par.
The agreement which has been
reached provides for complete in-
dependence and editorial control by
the board of Associated News-
papers of its existing publications,
and by John Fairfax & Sons of
their existing publications.
The plant and production facil-
ities will be controlled under one
management, subject to their re-
spective boards,
I repeat my advice to our share-
holders not to dispose of ' their
holdings.
Should, however, any share-
holder be compelled or wish to dis-
pose of his holding of ordinary
shares in this company, they will
be purchased unconditionally for
the sum of £1 each on application,
personally or in writing, to the
secretary, at the office of John
Fairfax & Sons Pty., Ltd., Pitt
Street, Sydney,
Then Warwick Fairfax, for
the “Herald,” said “I wish to
confirm in full Sir John Butters’
statement.” Associated ords.
rose to 225. Packer then made a
conditional offer of 255. a share.
On Monday it was announced
that Capital Issues consent to the
“Herald” offer had been re-
ceived, and the deal completed.
The issued capital of Associ-
ated Newspapers at present is
£2,563,601, in 1,071,326 £l*ords.
and 1,492,275 7 p.c. £1 prefs.
The unissued ords. total 678,674,
and it is these which the
“Herald” proposed to buy.
Rumors of Packer’s inten-
tions had been current for
a week or so, and of his aim at
controlling some evening paper
for longer. Who forced the hand
of whom during the later stages
of the negotiations is not yet
clear.
At this point it is interesting
to dig up some old bones;
Frank Packer, whose strong-arm
methods in the Sydney newspaper
world have had a distressing effect
on many of his contemporaries, on
newspapermen and on newsagents,
produced a brilliantly successful
“Women’s Weekly” which has at-
tained, by Australian standards, a
very large circulation and a high
advertising revenue. It has been able
to carry any other mistakes Packer
may have made. The “Telegraph,”
a daily with an adjustable political
policy, but consistently a plugger for
Packer, has not been nearly so suc-
cessful financially.
The “Women’s Weekly” began in
1932, under the ownership of Sydney
Newspapers, Ltd., in which the late
E. G. Theodore, former Premier of
Queensland, ex-Treasurer of the Com-
monwealth, a vendor in Emperor
Mines and a leading light in Loloma
and Koroere mines (all Fiji), held
46,7 p.c. of the capital. (Theodore
and Frank Packer in 1935, just before
Consolidated Press was floated, to-
gether held 30,000 out of the 32,108
issued shares i.r ojuney’ Newspapers.)
Sydney Newspapers took over the
carcass of tire “World,” in which
Theodore, an old A.W.U. organiser,
had in a sense an interest from the
beginning. It promptly figured in
an agreement with Associated News-
papers whereby the “Star,” a pro-
jected penny paper, was strangled in
the birth at a cost to Associated
reputed to be over £60,000.
It appears that Packer, senior, put
the “Star” proposition to Sir Hugh
Denison, then chairman of Associated
Newspapers, during a friendly game
of golf at Royal Sydney. Whether
Sir Hugh duffed his next shot, and
who paid for the drinks at the 19th,
are not known; but Associated
bought off this threatened competition,
though the Taxation Department,
unsympathetic, disallowed the pay-
ment as an item of general expendi-
ture. In the other camp the Packer
financial flair must have impressed
even Theodore.
In the Consolidated and Associated
histories there is a story of
high finance as applied to newspapers.
Before World War I there were four
dailies of consequence in Sydney: the
“Herald,” “Telegraph,” “Sun” and
“Evening News.” After the war the
“Telegraph” fell into a decline; what
was once a money-spinner and a
strong competitor of the “Herald”
in all fields degenerated into a heavy
loser. Shareholders suffered severely
before the “Sun” took it over (as
the “Pictorial”), and the old co, was
wound up. About the same time
there was another affecting domestic
tragedy in the newspaper world:
Hugh D. Mclntosh’s “Sunday Times,”
in other days a paper of considerable
note, passed out, with heavy losses
to shareholders.
In July, 1923, Smith’s Newspapers,
Ltd., which had put “Smith’s Weekly”
on the streets in March, 1919, brought
out the “Daily Guardian,” a journal
that combined free insurance with
“Miss Australia” competitions in its
bid for flapper support. The public
was asked for £150,000 in 9 p.c. pref.
capital in order to establish the
“Guardian,” buy a freehold and pay
off creditors; the vendors took
£lOO,OOO in ord. shares (mainly rep-
resented by goodwill), and Joynton
Smith subscribed for a further
£50,000 of ord. capital, which he paid
for in cash.
In September, 1929, the “Sunday
Guardian” appeared. Smith’s News-
papers’ nominal capital was increased
from £400,000 to £1,000,000, but
none of the increase was ever issued.
Country townsfolk were startled by a
sudden demonstration of “service” ;
in a burst of competition aeroplanes
were hired by the “Guardian” and
“Sun” for delivering Sunday editions.
The upshot of it all was that the
“Sun” people, who had by this time
bought the “Evening News” as well
as the “Telegraph Pictorial,” added
the two “Guardians” to their litter;
the price was £575,000 —£400,000 in
Associated Newspapers prefs. and
£175,000 in cash over a period. The
papers were transferred as from
January 12, 1930.
Though the principal asset, to estab-
lish which the pref. capital had been
raised, was now sold, most of the
proceeds of the sale of the “Guar-
dians” was whacked up among
Smith’s ord. shareholders —Joynton
Smith got 200,000 Associated prefs.,
the late R. C. Packer 150,000, D. F.
H (Frank) Packer 25,000 and L.
Deer 25,000. Smith’s prefs. thus lost
all interest in £28,000 p.a, income
from the Associated prefs., sufficient
to satisfy their annual requirements
twice over.
R. C. Packer joined Associated
Newspapers and sold his ords. in
Smith’s to Joynton Smith, who agreed
to indemnify him with regard to any
liability in respect of the “Guardian”
cut-up.‘ Depression then hit Joynton
Smith’s pocket. In March, 1932, Pre-
mier Lang brought in a bill obviously
designed to make R. C. Packer, as
well as the others, liable for the
return of their prefs. and to relieve
Joynton Smith of his indemnity. The
bill did not pass the Council. To
those who still held ords. in Smith’s
the return would have been no par-
ticular hardship; Joynton • Smith
actually did return 80,000 prefs. to
the co. during 1932.
Meanwhile Associated Newspapers
was having a most unhappy time.
The “Guardian,” “Telegraph” and
“Evening News” were losing heavily;
there were wrangles on the board and
resignations. Followed the shutting-
down of the “News,” the merging
of the “Daily Guardian” with the
“Telegraph” and the “Sunday Guar-
dian” with the “Sunday Sun.” In
1933 (after the payment was made to
Sydney Newspapers to abandon its
penny “Star”) £1,052,120 of Asso-
ciated ordinary shareholders’ capital
was written otf, after the £1 shares
had fallen to below 2s. on the share-
market.
Consolidated Press, Ltd., was
formed in 1936 to buy the publishing
rights of the “Women’s Weekly”
(from Sydney Newspapers) and the
“Daily Telegraph” (from Associated
Newspapers), as well as the building
and plant of the by-now extinct
“Evening News,” also from the Asso-
ciated group. Sydney Newspapers got
265,000 Consolidated ords. in ex-
change, Associated 160,000 ords. and
£95,000 in cash. Consolidated then
issued 150,000 ords. for cash to
Sydney Newspapers, E. G. Theodore
and D. F. H. (Frank) Packer. The
public was offered 100,000 6i p.c.
prefs., which it took up.
For the record it may be mentioned
that “Smith’s Wefekly,” at this time
owned by National Press and sans
Joynton Smith, went out in 1951,
when it was sold, with all assets, to
Mainguard (Aust.), Ltd., a finance
concern more interested in the
premises than in the newspaper.
“Smith’s” death was untimely.
During the war most newspapers
did well, but the “Sun” encountered
competition in the evening field in
May, 1941, when “Truth’s” “Daily
Mirror” came on the streets, and
eventually outstripped the “Sun” in
circulation.
During 1948 Associated sold its
interest in Consolidated, which, in
spite of the success of the “Women’s
Weekly,” had a poor div.-record up
till then, and has averaged no more
than 8 p.c. to the ords. since. Con-
solidated’s capital is now £1,112,500
(£250,000 in prefs., the remainder
ords.), and that of Conpress Printing
(a printing associate) £600,000.
At the end of 1948 Sydney News-
papers, which had acquired the
Associated 160,000-ord. holding in
Consolidated earlier in the year (to
give it 525,000 ords. out of 575,000),
placed 170,000 Consolidated shares
on the market at 355., cum 8 p.c.
dividend. Consolidated ords. are now
at 275. Its ord. issue was increased
to £862,500 early in 1950 by the otter
of 285,000 „ shares at a 2s. 3d.
premium.
Presses and the years roll on.
Frank Packer, still only 47, is
now a man of wealth and influ-
ence at his own level (though he
wasn’t able to influence Sir Artie
Fadden in his company-tax
policy), but in this latest chal-
lenge he has been forced into a
slugging-match.
Under the arrangement with
Associated, the “Sydney Morn-
ing Herald” will, together with
the present directors of Associ-
ated, control the capital of
Associated. Two additional
directors will be appointed to
the Associated board to repre-
sent the “Herald” interests.
“The identity of the newspapers
published by the two com-
panies,” says the “Herald,” “will
be preserved. It is intended,
however, that they will be pub-
lished under a unified manage-
ment,” with savings in costs.
The Bulletin always regrets
the joining-up of newspapers
under “unified management.”
The “Sun” has been politically
independent, and has been
among the more decent of the
Australian dailies at a time when
daily-paper journalism, on the
whole, has sunk pretty low. But
many people will join with the
“Sun” staff and the newsagents
in the hope that, if any sort of
merger of interests has to be, it
will be with the Fairfax stable.


I
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for.
Free Booklet
18 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, 0.P.0.), Sydney.
P- J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
IE
_D^
ps
'
?4r4
)
0
<r
V-
-07/
i A
WA
u
A GOOD WHISKY
MUST HAVE
STYLE
and in McCallum’s,
knowledgeable men always
find that perfection of style
brought about by the experienced
blending of grain and malt whiskies.
the
name
0)
Cdilums
the whisky is
MCI sa/6.2
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland
INSURANCE- for your protection-
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £14,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI 3 I (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL. Manager,
«*>N
. W
Nt'*
ORI
THE
SYDNEY COUNTY
COUNCIL
£4*15*0%
ELECTRICITY
LOAN
gives you the opportunity to
invest while interest rates
are still at a peak!
In August a semi-Govern-
mental Loan in another State
was fully subscribed within
24 hours at only £4/12/6%
interest.
Invest in the S.C.C. Loan
whilst Australia’s highest
semi - Governmental interest
rate is still offering. You can
invest for 11 or 24 years,
whichever period you prefer.
You can, if you wish, pay a
deposit of 10%, and have
until 31st October to com-
plete payment of the balance.
Call at your nearest Common-
wealth Bank branch to-day,
apply through any Stock-
broker, or write to the Sydney
County Council, Box 4009,
G.P.0., Sydney.
This £1,000,000 Loan is under-
written by A. W. Harvey,
Lowe & Co., members of The
Sydney Stock Exchange, and
will close on or before 12th
September, 1953.
CCLIB-53
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Victoria station, scene of so
many tearful departures in the
past, has once again become the
venue of distressed travellers.
With August weather brilliantly
out of character and the season
at its height, the arrival-
platforms have been crowded
with holiday-makers returning
from the Continent, worn out
by the discomforts of the French
strikes. Exhausted by long
hours of sitting, waiting impati-
ently, upon suitcases, by uncom-
fortable joltings on the backs of
lorries, by the natural anxiety to
be back in time for work, their
holidays are ruined, their money
overspent and their tempers
worn.
But, after all, however upset-
ting may be the holiday that
wasn’t, their discomfort was
only temporary. Most of them
are now back in their cosy villas,
drawing adequate pay-packets,
thankful, and, they feel, wiser
for being home again. Certainly
none has returned to hold the
French in envy.
French Leave
To the industrial observer, the
strikes are as different from the
normal run as they are astound-
ing to the professional agitator.
Strikes, it is said axiomatically,
don’t just break out; they are
shrewdly organised. That is the
experience in Britain. Pro-
moters in the form of unofficial
committees meet at regular
intervals and assess the indus-
trial pulse. When that shows a
faster beat they sedulously
aggravate the patient’s mild
fever, and, though self-professed
non-Communists, invariably act
coincidentally with the Com-
munist dictate. Then, as soon
as the strikers begin to show
restlessness, they withdraw.
Happily, except for a more or
less continual rash of local dis-
turbances, especially in the
mines, they have not been con-
spicuously successful here.
Moreover, these strikes are
usually among the well-paid and
easily-led workers in the mines
and the docks and hang upon
grievances other than financial.
While it is certain that the
French strikes will benefit no
one but the Communists, and
least of all the strikers them-
selves, the blundering handling
of them is enough to make any
professional organiser tear his
hair. Assuming that his objec-
tive was political (to promote a
general strike as a Communist
tactic) would he call the public
servants out at the most unpro-
pitious time —when the workers
were enjoying their holidays with
pay? When they, as well as the
overseas visitors, were wanting
to travel, do themselves well and
to send and receive letters? The
Lille weaver, relaxing on the
beach at Cannes or Wimereux,
•s not likely to abound with
fraternal sympathy for the
railwayman who leaves him
stranded.
The plain truth is that indus-
trial disruption, as we know it,
has had little to do with the
strikes. A French postman
earns under £3O a month and it
costs him £1 a day for bare
necessities. He heard rumors of
cuts, panicked and cried out
desperately “Why me ?”■ Three
million of his fellow State-
employees, incensed at the graft
and tax-evasion of the un-
salaried, readily took up his
lament. The Socialist unions,
ever anxious to outsmairt the
more powerful Communists,
backed them, and were soon to
be followed by the Catholic
unions. And even the Com-
munists, caught on the wrong
foot, were uncertain as to their
course and had to wait for
orders. A muddle all through,
in fact. The spontaneous out-
burst only demonstrates that
sauve qui peut permeates the
nation from top to bottom.
Food, Fares and Fraternity
At home all foods are more
plentiful except eggs. It is the
moulting season, and the present
high price (up to Bd. each) is
causing some embarrassment
both to the Government and to
the consumer. But British
housewives generally are
happier, if poorer, for being able
to buy what they want. Stocks
are mounting in the warehouses.
There is a glut of bacon, meat is
virtually off the ration, butter-
supplies are adequate and sugar
is expected to be derationed this
month. In order to maintain
the food subsidies at an annual
rate of £220 million the Ministry
of Food is kept very busy
juggling With prices. It natur-
ally wants to release the bacon
from store. Demand has fallen
off, so that means a reduction in
price. And that, in turn, will
add £2O million to the subsidies
bill. So butter, margarine and
cooking-fat are to be compen-
satorily increased. This may
well be a dying instance of the
mechanics of control, for the
consumer is having more say.
It will pass unmourned.
Londoners are very sore
about the recent increases in
fares. The original Id., 2d., 3d.
and 4d. fares now stand at 2d.,
sd. and 7d., and the cost
of longer journeys and season-
tickets has also risen. People
must travel backwatds and
forwards from work and use the
public transport whenever they
move about. And that, they
complain, is where the monopoly
has them. When running short
of money it puts "up the fares,
offers no better services and says
in effect “You’ll take it and like
it!” The Welfare State plainly
has a peremptory and dictatorial
side. Particularly when, as
Londoners protest, their pennies
are being appropriated to sub-
sidise the rest of the country.
The Shipbuilding and
Engineering Unions (38 in
number and representing
million members) have turned
their energetic and plausible
arguments for a 15 per cent,
wage increase into a public-rela-
tions campaign. Since their
claim is made the more
extravagant by adding the
demand for a working week of
40 hours (at an additional cost,
in all, of something like £l5O
million), lack of confidence may
perhaps engender elaborate
overstatement. But they are all
out for public sympathy. As
their products—our most vital
export —are becoming harder to
sell in face ,of German and
American competition, sympathy
will scarcely be universal. What
many of the delegates mean by
publicity was, unfortunately, too
clear from the telltale jargon of
their speeches: the conflict
might, for instance, become poli-
tical ; workers in other industries
might hope to follow suit; one
union might be prepared to go
“to all lengths” if the claim were
rejected ; another would induce
its workers to “use their
strength”; and the president
himself summed-up the need for
sympathy from other workers
“in case their moral, financial or
active support is needed in the
event of a strike or overtime ban
in engineering or shipbuilding.”
From public relations to foster
brotherhood?
Born of Television
Television has indirectly sup-
plied the West End stage with
a good play. Adapted from
the French of Marcelle Murette
by Guy Bolton, plucked
out of repertory by the 8.8. C.
and finally bought by Sir
Laurence Olivier, “Anastasia”
(St. James’s theatre) might well
repeat the success of “Tovarich.”
Emigre Russians of high birth
re-enacting past splendors is the
theme. The plot depends upon
the legend that a daughter of
the Tsar escaped the holocaust
of the revolution and lived, if
not to tell the tale, at least to
play the main part in a gigantic
swindle. Her progression .is
prime “theatre.” Played with
fetching contrasts by Mary
Kerridge, she enters as a forlorn
Cinderella of the streets and
leaves as a blue-blooded Eliza
Doolittle. The male parts are
rather long-winded and stodgy,
whether in sordid conclave or
Imperial finery, but Helen Haye
demonstrably proves that an old
lady of character, like the Queen
in chess, is the most powerful
piece on the boards.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
Are you leaving Your Executor a 'legacy' of trouble?
One Executor, however able, cannot possibly acquire in
a lifetime the specialised knowledge of a group of experts
that-is available permanently from the Union Trustee
Company.
Many people appoint the Union Trustee Company as
sole Executor of their Wills. You, too, can do so with
complete confidence. But should you wish to combine
the Company’s wide experience and extensive knowledge
with the services of a relative or friend, you can
appoint the Union Trustee as co-Executor with that
person.
Why not take advantage of Union Trustee’s practical
experience in the administration of all types of
Estates? Service is comprehensive; charges are moderate.
Call, without obligation, for a confidential discussion with one of
the Company’s senior officers. Or, if you prefer, write or telephone
for a copy of the free booklet, “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
U NTO N
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated In Victoria I Established 188S
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
UT U
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
Written
June, Profit, Dividends. Off. Reserves.
& £>£,£/
1942.. 877,162 7} p.c. = 355,426 25,000 4,419,165
1943.. 374,098 7} „ „ 355,426 15,000 4,422,837
1944.. 379,823 7} „ „ 855,426 25,000 4,422,234
1945.. 384,777 7} „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,426,585
1946.. 387,755 7} „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,438,914
1947.. 393,293 74 „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,446,781
1948.. 402,771 7| „ „ 367,237 26,000 4,457,279
1949.. 411,797 8 „ ~879,121 25,000 4,464,955
1950.. 426,542 8 „ „ 379,121 25,000 4,487,376
Tax refund. £273,706 4,761,082
1961.. 451,699 8 p.c. = 379,121 25,000 4,808,660
1952.. 443.843 8 ~ „ 379,121 25,000 4,848,882
1953.. 470.625 8 „ „ 379,121 25,000 4,914,886
The improvement in last term’s profit—
it was the best showing since 1930 —
came mainly, if not wholly, from the in-
vestment basket. From the banking
point of view conditions were mixed.
The year opened with deposits and
liquids down and advances up, following
a large deficit (£378.4 million) in Aus-
tralia’s overseas trading account for
1951-52. It ended the other way about,
with a balance-of-payments surplus
(£358.1 million), a growth in deposits and
liquids, and shrinkage in advances.
The change was due primarily to im-
port-restrictions and other measures
taken by the Government and central
bank to meet the position and damp-
down inflation, and by a favorable season
and bigger export income, especially
for wool. At the same time traders re-
duced their intake of goods from local
and overseas sources, worked down
swollen inventories and reduced their
overdrafts, thus strengthening the liquidity
of the whole financial structure and
adding to the stability of trade and in-
dustry generally.
Bank earnings were helped by a lift
in the overdraft rate from 4j- p.c. to 5 p.c.
(maximum) in August, 1952, by better
returns in the exchange market on
account of wool, by pickings from
country and inter-State clearances, by
returns from a bigger Volume of liquids
and by a lift in the charge for keeping
accounts. Earnings in respect of imports
were lower, and the continued rise in
wage and other costs, together with
slightly higher rates paid for fixed-
deposits, bit into takings, of course.
After allowing unspecified amounts for
taxation and other contingencies, the
board wrote net earnings at £470,625,
equal to 4.8 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined), or
9.9 p.c. on capital alone as against 9.3 p.c.
for the previous term. The div. was
kept at 8 p.c. for the fifth year in suc-
cession, and the usual £25,000 was
written off the book-value of premises,
which are worth a lot more than the
figure at which they appear.
The year’s growth in deposits was
£17,289,729 and shrinkage in advances
and “other” assets £3,118,142 and
£2,352,332 respectively :
1951. 1952. 1958.
Paid capital .. £4,739,013 £4,739,013 £4,739,013
Notes .. .. 13,513 13,513 13,500
Deposits, etc.* 192,283,031 173,217,094 190,506,823
Due other banks 2,984,200 1,189,945 1,678,561
Final div. .. 189,560 189,560 189,560
Liquids .. 141,667,063 102,759,226 125,902,401
Advances . . 65,867,746 76,272,343 73,154,201
Premises, etc... 1,203,112 1,227.522 1,399,656
Other assets .. 6,280,058 3,938,416 1,586,084
• Includes provision for contingencies.
It was all accompanied by an expansion
of £23,143,175 in low-interest-bearing
liquids, which include £41,400,000 (up
£6,800,000) frozen on special account
with the central bank at 10s. p.c. interest,
£19,000,000 (up £9,000,000) of 1 p.c.
Treasury bills, and £31,598,004 (up
£6,134,107) of Government securities at
rates in a 2-4£ p.c. bracket. The ratio
of liquids to liabilities to the public was
65.5 p.c. and of advances to deposits
38.4 p.c. So, from the banking point of
view, the co.’s position is an exceptionally
strong one. Toward and since the close
of accounts the demand for accommoda-
tion has strengthened, which augurs well
for the current year’s earnings, upon
which the tax pressure promises to be a
little lighter, too.
The rebuilding and extension of branch
premises and purchase of a “bombed”
site at Old Jewry London, added £172,134
net to the book-value of premises. A
new building is to be erected on the
London site, but no hint is given that
shareholders might be asked for immedi-
ate assistance in this or other respects.
Chief weakness of the Australian
economy at the moment is the high level
of production costs, the dangers of which
have been masked by a period of very
favorable trade. What is not generally
realised is that the prosperity of primary
producers has supported the weakness
that has developed in the secondary in-
dustries, namely very high wages and short
working week with heavy overtime rates
superimposed. Those engaged in the
secondary and distributive industries,
etc., bid for the surplus of primary pro-
ducts, to wit, the; prosperity loading in
the basic wage. Present standards of
consumption cannot be maintained in-
definitely on present standards of per-
formance. Unless the position is cor-
rected before the ebb-tide sets in, un-
employment of labor and productive
capacity can be expected, and we might,
eventually have to face the cheapening
of our pound by devaluation. At the
moment devaluation would aggravate,
not relieve difficulties. Whatever tax and
other concessions the Budget might con-
tain should be accepted not as a prize-
packet, but as a challenge.
The market prices the co.’s £25 shares
paid to £l2 10s. each —the other £l2 10s.
is a reserve liability—at £2l 19s. (£2O Bs,
a year ago) to return 4.5 p.c, on an
8 p.c. div. basis, with prospects. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is £25 9s. 3d.
Kelly and Lewis, Ltd.
(Parent and Subsidiaries.)
t Dividends %
Ist 2nd Re-
June, Profit. Prefs. Prefs. Ords. Amount, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1949.. 84,957 8 5 8 30,780 93.645
Revaluation reserve, £181,455 . . 275,100
Add net adjustments, £754.. .. 275,854
1950.. 65,291 8 6 8 30,780 310.365
To staff fund, £3OOO 307.365
Share premiums, £85,460 .. .. 842,825
Reserves capitalised, £30,800 . . .. 312,025
Less reserve adjustments, £179 .. 811,846
1951.. 88.120 8 5 10 47,552 352,414
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 342,414
Added intangibles, £8991 .. .. 883,423
Share premiums, £1750 .. .. 335,173
Surplus sale assets, £8594 .. .. 338,767
Amortisation. £6985 .. .. ... 331,782
Less reserve adjustment, £330 ~ 331,452
1952.. 66,961 8 6 8 50,040 848,873
To staff fund, £2600 345.873
Sundry additions, £8077 .. .. 848,950
Surplus sale assets, £1902 .. .. 850,852
Amortisation, £3492 .. .. .. 847,360
Written off investments, £21,250 .. 326,110
Work-in-progress written down, £51,979 274,131
1953. .102,724 8 5 8 50,040 326,815
To staff fund. £5OOO 321,815
A surprisingly good result considering
the difficulties in the path of the
heavy-engineering trade over the last 12
months. They were chiefly limitation of
expenditure on developmental and other
works in the public sector of the
economy, slackening tempo of activity
in the private sector, tightening of credit,
continued advance of operating and other
costs, and a long list of consequent sub-
sidiary problems.
The £102,724 (up £35,763) of profit,
which was written after allowing £23,049
(up £1778) for depreciation and £37,605
(down £19,437) for taxation, was suffi-
cient to pay the pref. divs. (£11,880) and
show 19 p.c. on the £477,000 of ord.
capital as against 11.6, 20.7, 20.3, 9.5
and 6.5 p.c. back to 1948. There was
thus no difficulty in maintaining the div.
at 8 p.c. The profit figure, however,
leaves out of the reckoning £51,979 by
which the replacement value of the over-
head content of work-in-progress was
written down and charged against re-
serves, which were also debited with
£21,250 written off the book-value of
shares in K.L. Tractors, Ltd., to bring
them into line with current market-value.
The shareholding is a fixed asset, the
writing-down of which is a legitimate
charge against reserves. Work-in-progress
is a trading asset, a fall in the value of
which would normally be reflected in
the p. and 1. account. The board is
satisfied, however, that “work-in-progress
will realise considerably more than actual
cost.” The purpose of writing-down the
book-value of this item was to relieve
the weight of the tax bill, the actual gain
in this respect being £23,391, the chair-
man says. It was heavy Government
bleeding that pulled down the 1952 profit
figure.
The parent and subsidiaries are a care-
fully-integrated group, with Common-
wealth-wide connections, whose output
and activities have expanded considerably
since the war. Output includes centri-
fugal- and axial-flow-pumps, compressors,
condensers, steam and internal-combus-
tion engines and structural steel work,
as well as electric-generators, switchgear,
pneumatic tools, etc.
An associate, K.L. Tractors, Ltd.,
founded in 1946 to make 40-horsepower
Bulldog tractors, has run into heavy
weather, and its future is uncertain.
It has a paid capital of £250,000 in 50,000
5 p.c, prefs, and 200,000 ords. Kelly
and Lewis holds 25,000 of the ords.,
which now figure in its books at £3750.
During the year the parent and sub-
sidiaries strengthened the financial struc-
ture by working down stocks and light-
ened the outside debt:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £680,000 £687,000 £687,000
Mortgage .. 129,500 119,883 114,347
Overdrafts .. 187,539 221,276 154,897
Creditors .. 285,351 255,177 239.482
Tax provision .. 54,120 69,218 45,544
Final divs. .. 84,498 20,250 25,020
Freeholds .. 210,782 248,802 253,396
Plant .. .. 305,867 822,678 375,173
Stocks, etc. .. 600,956 795,896 601,801
Debtors .. 423,096 267,780 271,610
Investments .. 100,005 72,505 79,005
Cash, etc. .. 19,987 10,966 7,120
Stocks were reduced by £194,095 (£51,979
of it was on account of the writing-down
already mentioned), and £66,379 was
snipped off the overdraft, £15,695 off the
amount coming to sundry creditors and
£5486 off the mortgage. Book-debts in-
creased by £3830, and investments by
£6500 net, while £52,495 more was spent
on plant than was written off.
Exactly what lies ahead of the trade
is difficult to say at the moment. The
current level of costs has made some of
the co.’s products “quite uncompetitive
with similar imported lines,” and relaxa-
tion of import-restrictions will sharpen
competition. What can be said definitely
is that from the technical point of view
the co. has nothing to fear. Whether the
relief from taxation expected in the
coming Budget will amount to more than
a marginal gain remains to be seen.
The market sums up the position by
pricing the co.’s f.-p. £1 ords. at 235. 6d.
to return 6.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
The 6-8 p.c. participating prefs. at 225.
yield 7.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. distribution,
or 6.4 p.c. on a 6 p.c. basis. The 5 p.c.
prefs. at 15s. 6d. turn in 6.4 p.c. Net
tangible cover is prefs, £3l 18s. Bd. and
£5 17s. sd. respectively, and ords. 335. 6d.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney)
_ Net To Re- Re-
june, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1944.. 29,270 10 p.c. = 25,201 4,069 69,344
1945.. 31.671 10 „ „ 25,201 6,470 75,814
1946.. 35,657 114 „ „ 28,987 6,676 82,490
1947.. 35,821 11} „ „ 28,981 6,340 88,830
From tax provision, £ 5000 .. .. 93,830
1948.. 84,431 11} p.c. = 28,981 5,450 99,280
From deferred repairs reserve, £2000.. 101,280
1949.. 43,666 12} p.c. = 31,501 3,165 104,445
From deferred repairs reserve, £4000.. 108,445
1950.. 81,633 12} p.c. = 31,501 132 108,577
1951.. 35,713 12} „ „ 31,501 4,212 112,789
Tax underprovided, £3OOO ~ .. 109,789
1952.. 26.843 10 p.c. = 25,201 1,642 111,431
1953.. 82,509 11} „ „ 28,981 3,528 114,959
One of the best and most consistent
dividend-payers in the hotel group, the
Metropole enjoys a wide goodwill (of
which no account is taken in the books),
built up on service and a moderate tariff;
and the hotel has long been a popular
rendezvous for country visitors. Of the
co.’s £252,010 of share capital, £117,000
is bonus-scrip (last gift-issue was in
1935); and shareholders received a steady
10 p.c., plus special distributions totalling
£67,500, over the 20 years to 1929, fol-
lowed by divs. averaging 7.3 p.c. for the
14 years to 1943, and 11.3 p.c. for the
decade to the close of last accounts.
Turnover in the bar, lounge, catering
and guest-occupancy sections has moved
with the time since war ended. But net
earnings didn’t get the full benefit of
increased takings, which have been held
in check by controlled tariff charges. That
was because Of the perennial growth of
wage and all other costs, especially for
foodstuffs and replacements—the last-
mentioned is a hungry animal in this
class of business —and of the effects of the
40-hour week and high level of staff
turnover, which has been a management-
headache so far as service is concerned.
Catering was, and still is, the department
hardest hit; for several years the dining-
room was run at a loss. Best testimony
to the quality of the control is the level
of net earnings and dividends over the
last decade.
The 12 months covered by the latest
accounts opened with an unfavorable
outlook, and there was a slight decrease
in the percentage of guest occupancy.
But conditions improved as the year
advanced, and revenue was “more than
maintained” in all departments, thanks
partly to a small lift in tariff charges.
So, despite the familiar rise in operating
costs, albeit at a slackening pace, the
board was able to write the net result
£5666 stronger at £32,509, which was
equal to 12.9 p.c. on capital as against
10.6, 14.1, 12.5, 13.7 and 13.6 p.c. back
to 1948. The div. was lifted from 10 p.c.
to \l\ p.c., and there is nothing in sight
at the moment to suggest an early reces-
sion in the rate.
The co. is well-ribbed financially, which
means much so far as renewals and
renovations are concerned:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital . . £252,010 £252,010 £252,010
Renewals reserve 10,000 10,000 10,000
Creditors .. 13,443 14,392 16,959
Tax provision .. 27,828 26,063 30,389
Final div. .. 21,421 15,121 18,901
Fixed assets .. 260,317 258,317 256,317
Stock . . . . 6,638 10,310 9,354
Book debts, cash,
etc 170,536 160,389 177,547
Of the last item in the table, cash and
Government securities (at cost) account
for £171,603.
The immediate outlook in the trade is
brighter than it was a year ago, and,
with the Royal visit due before next
balance, hotel turnover should benefit,
and some relief from the present pressure
of taxation is expected when the Budget
is brought down next week. Also, there
are hopes that N. S. Wales might follow
Queensland in abandoning now-outmoded
price-control over a wide range of com-
modities and services, including hotel
tariffs and beer.
The co.’s f.-p. £1 shares, which had
dropped to 295. 9d. in the market during
1952, fetched 355, last week. At the
higher figure the return is a satisfactory
6.6 p.c. on an 11£ p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover is 295. Id.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
pH I
Established lam in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
NJS.W. Branch:
8 Sprint Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Me All-BRITISH
(wycug
From
27/6
to
75/-.
gdf
GIVES
CHARACTER
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
WITH THE
MARVELLOUS NIB
CONWAY STEWART & CO, LTDU LONDON
kitp mom
AjfUltr
SANDERS
es
Correspondence. t
statements. etc., filed In the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
period book of reference at
(be end of each month —or
Ft)
any oUw period.
Jackson & o’Suu,ivan Pty. Lnx
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Yardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
Price* and far-
ther ißtonDiUoa
■pas tpplleaUoo
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
m&MmrwA r mrwA
TWA
TWAmtwAmtWAmmAmrwAsrwAmfWA^mjkmtwAmfWA
TRANS WORLD AIRLINES
is the ONLY airline to offer you
Super (Constellations
o,
to carry you in luxury from San
Francisco or Los Angeles to New York
en route to
London, Paris, Frank-
furt, Zurich, Geneva,
Tel Aviv, Shannon.
Lisbon, Madrid,
Algiers, Tunis, Milan,
Rome, Athens, Cairo.
Basra, Dhahran,
Bombay.
SUPER CONSTELLATION FEATURES:
# Most spacious planes in
commercial operation-
744 square feet of floor
space.
# Seats 64 passengers,
plus 8 sleeping berths.
# Luxury lounge for pas-
sengers’ comfort.
O Most advanced 4-engine
equipment gives greater
Literature supplied on appli-
cation to any approved travel
agent, or TWA, Kembla Build-
ing, 58 Margaret St., Sydney.
BX 1219.
range—3,2so miles
cruising at 20,000 feet.
• Pressurised and air-
conditioned cabins give
low altitude comfort.
• Outstanding cuisine.
. fLg (IS and o>* rseas
ItW*
—~s
.m’irni wO** c
ASK FOR TWA SUPER CONSTELLATION SERVICE ACROSS AMERICA
MUM
sa
vmm trmm mu mvMi imvMimmm vm vMiim vmi « mu mw wm
m
CAN BE
PREVENTED
BY FULLY
MECHANISED
FODDER
CONSERVATION
No longer need even the
one-man property owner
be at the mercy of
devastating fires, for the
revolutionary Allis-
Chalmers “One - Man
Harvest Team” enables
him to forestall the flames
by harvesting the grass
that feeds them! The
grass harvested will in no
time be of far more value
than the cost of this
amazing equipment which
is a first class profit
earner. One man can
definitely handle this
team and it’s priced
within the reach of all.
g
THE ONE-MAN POWER
TAKE-OFF OPERATED
ROTO-BALER
c~
/x
THE ONE-MAN
POWER TAKE-
OFF OPERATED
ALL-CROP
HARVESTER
ft
Mill
MWJSJKiS*
ij jri
THE ONE-MAN POWER TAKE-
OFF OPERATED RAKE & TEDDER
Ask your local Allis-Chalmers dealer for
full particulars about this amazing one-
man harvest team.
puis
CHALMERS
N.S.W.: Mitchell Shearer Farm Machinery Pty. Ltd., George Street, Homebush.
VICTORIA: Mitchell & Co. Pty. Ltd., Footscray, Victoria. S. AUST.: John
Shearer & Sons Limited, Kilkenny. W. AUST:: Westralian Farmers Co-operative
Ltd., Perth. QUEENSLAND: Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd., Brisbane.
TASMANIA: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart. NEW GUINEA: Tutt-Bryant
Ltd., Port Moresby.
11/83X3
Queensland Brewery, Ltd.
(Brisbane)
Dividends--,
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. sip.c. 7 p.e. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
’44 114,809 10,958 73,320 80,531 195,653
’45" 121,063 10,958 73,320 86.785 232.438
’467 115,868 10,958 73,320 31,590 264.028
’47 . 120,81« 10,958 73,320 36.634 300,562
’4B 128,204 10,958 73,320 38,926 339,488
’49". 123,661 10,958 73,320 39,383 378,871
’50.. 93,626 10,958 73,320 9,347 388.218
’5l 128,257 10,958 73,320 43,979 432,197
’52.. 127,730 10,958 76,295 40,477 472,674
’53.. 138,554 10,958 84,449 43,147 515.821
Expansion has been the keynote
of the accounts of this big
brewing concern over the last
few years, and those on the
register (pref. and ord.) have
joined in the progress, not
through a lift in the div. —the
rate has been steady at 7 p.c.
since 1932, except in 1942 and
1943 when 6 p.c. was paid—but
by offers of new shares at par,
which were in the nature of
bonuses owing to the premium
at which the old scrip stood in
the market. In January, 1951,
80,000 new £1 ords. were put
out, followed a year later by a
further 221,945 new £1 ords.
Paid capital thus became
£1,553,611 in 199,234 5* p.c.
prefs, and 1,354,377 ords.
The co. shares the bulk of the
trade in the thirsty southern half
of the northern State with
Castlemaine Perkins, Ltd. Since
there is no price-cutting in the
trade, competition takes the
form of buying-up and/or
improving hotel properties, thus
widening and anchoring turn-
over. Last term’s new share
capital, and more besides, went
into fixed assets, which include
hotel freeholds as well as the
brewery, all of which are being
modernised and expanded. The
year’s net addition to this item
was £314,893, making the growth
£558,381 over the last three
years, during which period
£290,993 was also added to the
outside debt:
1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,831,666 £1,658,611
Creditors .. 760,038 765,287
Final divs. . . 45,114 50,293
Fixed assets .. 1,971,660 2,286,553
Stocks .. 432,475 382,149
Book debts .. 198,568 209,169
Investments .. 6,788 7,140
Despite rising prices, stocks were
reduced by £50,326 last term,
thanks mainly to a better flow of
raw materials. Book - debts
increased by £10,601. At June
30 last the creditors item (it
includes £350,664 of secured
accounts) exceeded more-or-less
liquids (£598,458) by £217,122.
The co. doesn’t publish its
p. and 1. figures, and the board
is tight-lipped about turnover
and the number of hotels owned.
Statistics show that the Aus-
tralian output of beer has kept
on expanding for over a decade,
the increase being approximately
8 p.c. for the year to June 30
last. But mounting labor and
raw-material costs, and the time-
lag in lifts in controlled selling-
prices, have narrowed net gains,
as the fluctuating figures in the
profits column of the introduc-
tory table show.
Although new capital takes
time to develop full earning-
power, *and wage, sugar and
other raw-material costs further
increased last term, the board
wrote the year’s profit £10,824
stronger at £138,554. That was
after setting aside £50,523 (up
£4325) for depreciation and
something for taxation and other
contingencies. The £138,554
covered the pref. div. and
10.6 p.c. on average ord. capital,
compared with 10.7, 11.2, 7.9,
10.7 and 10.7 p.c. back to 1948.
The current term promises to
be better than the one it follows.
After refusal of the Common-
wealth Government to go on
meeting the cost of State
administration of now-
superfluous price-control, a wide
range of goods and services,
including beer and hotel tariffs,
has been returned to the free
list in Queensland. And local
brewers, who had previously
asked for a rise in selling-prices
to help offset the recent growth
in cost of brewing ingredients,
have lifted the price of bulk
beer by jd. a glass over the
counter, and of bottled beer by
2d. a unit. A good season is in
prospect, employment remains
at a high level, the next tax-bill
is expected to be proportionately
lighter, and the Royal visit
should mean much to the trade.
At 31s. the co.’s f.-p. £1 ords.
return 4.5 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis, or 5.1 p.c. should the dis-
tribution be raised to 8 p.c.
The p.c. prefs, at 235. 6d.
yield 4.9 p.c. Net tangible cover
is £lO 7s. 9d. prefs. and 275. 7d.
ords.
Gt. Western Consolidated
Still in the development stage,
this co. has lived up to pros-
pectus estimates fairly well to
date. Formed at the end of
1950 to work auriferous leases
at Southern Cross (W.A.), it got
its 30,000-ton-a-month mill going
at end November last. Initial
difficulties have been overcome,
and for the five months to
March 24, 1953, 119,187 tons of
2.9Bdwt. ore was treated for
14,1280 z. fine gold, an average
of 2.37dwt, per ton. Recently
recovery has been approximately
93 p.c. About 55 p.c. of the
feed came from the Copperhead
mine, and 45 p.c. from the open-
cut, where the grade (I.4dwt.)
was below expectation, due to
dilution in opening up the
quarry. The underground ore
was clpse to estimates at 4.3dwt.
per ton. Costs (mining, treat-
ment and development) were
38.935. per ton. After capitalis-
ing £1J,745 of Overhead incurred
before commencement of
milling, operations resulted in a
loss of £ll,BOO.
There is £1,768,000 of capital
to feed in f.-p. 10s. shares, of
which Western Mining Corp.
owns 500,000, plus an option
over 500,000 unissued 10s. shares
at a discount of 2s. each until
May, 1958. When the books
closed outside liabilities totalled
£793,427 overdraft £501,200
(£315,926 of it on housing
account), advances from W.M.C.
£191,000, and sundry creditors
£101,227. Gold in course of
realisation and debtors totalled
£51,530, stores £173,558, and
ore stocks £44,984. The mine
figures at £293,888, plant, etc.,
£1,205,290, housing £319,442,
development, etc., including
quarry and stope preparation,
£450,676, and repayments, etc.,
£10,259.
The prospectus showed ore
disclosed by prospecting and
development as:
Proved—v
Tons. Tons.
’OOO. dwt. ’OOO. dwt.
Underground .. 500 5.5 800 5.5
Opencut 790 3.4
Total.. ..1,290 4.2 800 5.5
With gold at the statutory price
and costs at 38.935., there is a
profit of a shade over 265. per
ton in ore averaging 4.2dwt.
The market prices the scrip at
7s. 4d. or thereabouts, as against
a high of 10s. 4d. in 1952.


Women's Letters
MEILBDDDNE
There wasn’t a vacant seat in the
Tivoli when Sydney’s National Opera
Co. presented the “Barber of Seville,”
with coloratura Glenda Raymond sing-
ing Rosina and Geoffrey Chard as Figaro.
The Acting-Governor of Victoria, Sir
Charles Lowe, was in the audience with
Lady Lowe, whose gown in soft French
crepe was in lime-green tonings. Accom-
panying them were their son-in-law and
daughter, Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Wark,
with daughter Jenny. Mrs. Wark’s gown
was of white organza etched in a black
leaf-design. Mrs. Charles Lane com-
bined a ballerina skirt of black velvet
with a mink-edged, long-sleeved white
jersey blouse and wide black jersey stole.
Mrs. Roy Lamb, of Sydney, was in a
short frock of dove-grey satin which had
the bodice embroidered in pearls and
sapphire rhinestones. Pauline Oulton’s
gown of scarlet chiffon was covered with
a white lacey-wool shawl.
* ☆ *
For several years country residents
have responded magnificently to the
Royal Melbourne Hospital Egg Appeal,
and once again their help is asked by the
hospital-committee. More than 840
dozen eggs are used each week in the
hospital, and they constitute an essential
item of diet for patients. Last year
240,000 eggs were sent in, largely with the
help of schoolchildren all over the State,
which meant a saving to the hospital of
over £4OOO. Appeal day is September
29. Country parcels may be sent freight-
free to Spencer-street or Flinders-street
railway-station. Eggs may also be left
at the Kiosk, Newspaper House, 247
Collins-street.
☆ ■ *
The Anne Collins Collection of spring
and summer hats showed femininity, grace
of line and an absence of all exaggera-
tion. A very popular color for spring
will be beige, in variations ranging from
eggshell to cinnamon, combined with
white. Blues and pinks are still well to
the fore, and yellow is seen frequently.
But white, with its freshness and ability
to highlight other shades, reserves the
chosen place. Most important of the
fabrics are piques, classic straws, Italian
pedals and straw materials. Tulle and
organza play their parts in the making
of garden-party hats and also for trim-
mings. Velvets are used for the smart
little Calots. Among several lovely hats
which were originally designed by
Madame Vernier for the Duchess of
Kent was a draped striped-taffeta turban
in zenith-pink. From the back knot
drapings of black tulle fell softly over
the shoulders.
Madame Vernier also created for
Princess Alexandra a hat in pastel pink
composed entirely of carnation-petals.
The same creator’s large model was the
success of the London season —the
Duchess of Kent had it copied three
times —one in cinnamon-brown, with
stripes of white and cinnamon-brown
jersey on the underbrim ; another in light
beige with white shantung under the
brim; the third in dark-grey shantung
with a colorful printed shantung lining.
A small hat in yellow pedal-straw had
the new scalloped line and was trimmed
with grey roses. Notable were a white
daisy-trimmed pedal-straw turban with
an undulating brim, a large white crino-
line straw garden-party hat with a
mushroom-droop brim; a flattish crown
and trimmed with a double-edge of the
new eyelash-braid, and a natural Bali
straw painted over in delicate yellow,
with green chiffon massed in loops of
drapery at the back,
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh decorated her
lovely Toorak home with gay spring
flowers for the Toorak Auxiliary of the
Y.W.C.A. to hold its Bring-a-gift-buy-a-
gift afternoon, which was a pronounced
success. Mrs. John Ramsay and Mrs. A.
Mair collected entrance-fees, stall-sellers
were Mesdames Geoff Grimwade, E.
Drane, Eric Duckett and B, Featherston.
Mrs. E. L. Fitzgerald was acting-president
of the auxiliary and Madge Thomas
secretary. President of Y.W.C.A., Mrs.
T. S. Rentoul, was there with Mrs.
Essington Lewis and Misses Eileen Wood-
ward and Joyce Truelove.
At the final meeting of the committee
which organised the Coronation concert
in the Town Hall in aid of Y.W.C.A.,
proceeds were stated to have topped
£lOOO for the immigration fund. Mrs.
Harold Holt was patroness of the concert
and Mrs. E. L. Fitzgerald chairman of
committee. Those at the final meeting
included the Lord Mayor, Cr. W. J.
Brens, Mrs. T. S. Rentoul, Mrs. Hector
Greig, Mrs. J. T. Massey, the Italian
Consul, Dr. Lucca Dainelli, and Mr. E.
Utassy.
☆ ☆ ☆
The engagement has been announced
of Angela Laventie, only child of Mrs.
W, Cass, of Punt Hill, South Yarra, and
the late Brigadier W. E. H. Cass, and
Timothy Herbert Eric, son of Mrs.
Cousens, of Edinburgh, Scotland, and the
late Col. R. B. Cousens, Royal Artillery.
Angela has been practising as a barrister
for the past three years. Timothy, who
came to this city four years ago, is on
the staff of the A.B.C.
Judy Barraclough, lovely Sydney man-
nequin. wears this Anne Collins model
for spring. Designed by Jean Barthet,
it is in the new beige-and-white color
combination and features the new line
and veiling. Photo by Ray Leighton.
The Tin Alley Players celebrated their
50th production by presenting a revue,
“Jubilee Mixture,” at the Union Theatre.
Bright, sparkling and crammed with
topical interest, it found favor with a
large audience. Associate Professor Keith
Macartney not only wrote much of the
dialogue but appeared in a number of
sketches. Another member of the Tin
Alley Players, Margaret Lyall, wrote a
great deal of the music and words and
presided at the piano. In the audience
were the University’s former vice-chan-
cellor, Sir John Medley, with Lady Med-
ley and daughter Diana, Mrs. Frank Tait,
Patrick Donell, Major-General Kingsley
Norris and Mrs. Norris, Mrs. Felix
Harber and daughter Felicity, Mr, and
Mrs. Royden Floneyman, Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Bourchier, Mrs. Rupert Downes,
Mrs. Russell Gourlay and Loveday Hills.
* ☆ *
Evie Hayes, who will shortly star in
“Call Me Madam,” came to the first night
of the Agatha Christie play “The
Hollow,” wearing a lovely short evening
frock of heavily-sequinned shell-pink
satin. Mrs. Charles Burge, who was with
her husband, Capt. Burge, R.N., wore
black crepe under a blue-fox cape-stole.
Mrs. F. Hobbill Cole added a cape of
hyacinth-blue ostrich-feathers to her
matching blue gown. Jewel Firth’s
bouffant white organdie gown featured a
black taffeta sash, with the organdie stole
banded also in black taffeta. Mrs. E. L.
G. Cresswell’s gown was of black-and-
silver brocade; her daughter Elizabeth
teamed a blue-and-gold-embroidered
blouse with a black evening skirt.
Margot Henry’s short frock was of
del-blue chiffon; Mrs. Syd Lawson’s of
junior-blue taffeta. Mrs. Graham Nathan’s
frock was of black Chantilly lace over
white satin. Mrs. George Griffith chose
a ballerina of cream lace, Mrs. Ken Luke
a black frock with a silver-blue mink
jacket. Mrs. Wallace Mitchell’s short
dove-grey shantung frock was worn
under a matching wool coat which had a
collar of grey fox.
SYDNEY
Sydney has three interesting women
visitors, all from America, though one,
Perry Hart, is a “local girl”—she comes
from Mullumbimby and has returned
to give recitals for the A.B.C. Perry
was greeted by many old friends at the
party given in honor of pianist William
Kapell and his wife by the Symphony
Orchestra Committee, most of them ex-
claiming at how slim she was, as she
had been a plump little schoolgirl when
she left. Perry’s mother, Mrs. J. Hart,
and her brother Tony, are in Sydney to
meet her, but she won’t see her father
till she plays her violin at Lismore in
November. Six of her seven years abroad
were spent in Holland studying with
Szymon Goldberg, and she says she can
speak “Dutch and double-Dutch” in
spite of the fact that most of the educated
people in Holland speak English quite
fluently,
Mrs. Esther van Wagoner Tufty is an
American (only Americans seem to have
that sort of a name) with all the
American’s straightforwardness, vigor
and ease of manner. She has attended
about 12 receptions in Sydney (she is in
Australia for a five-week tour), and as
guest of the Australian-American Asso-
ciation tossed off opinions on everything
American with the greatest of aplomb :
television, Eleanor Roosevelt, Clare
Booth Luce, Senator McCarthy, women
in Congress, General Mac Arthur, etc.,
etc., but she didn’t know whether skirts
would be short or not and wouldn’t give
a recipe for a pie, though she is said to
make the best pies in three counties. A
reporter on world affairs, a columnist
syndicated to about 300 papers and a
television broadcaster, Mrs. van Wagoner
Tufty is tall, broad-browed and crowned
with a cpronet of blonde hair. She’ll
never make the cosmetic manufacturers
rich, but she goes to the beauty salon
to have her hair washed and types her
broadcasts while under the dryer. A
dynamic person, refreshing to meet.
A slender, quiet and lily-like American
is Rebecca Anna Lou Kapell, wife of
William Kapell. Although she has two
children, David (four) and Rebecca (two),
she has been able to accompany her
husband on his travels through Europe,
South America and Australia during the
past six months, as her mother is looking
after the little ones in New York. Not a
concert-performer herself, Mrs. Kapell,
however, studied piano for 11 years.
Photo by Norman L. Danvers.
The delightful home of Mr. and Mrs.
L. A. Lister at Vaucluse beckoned quite
a few music-lovers on Friday night to
a musicale for National Opera. The
singers were mostly the younger members
of the company, as the others are in
Melbourne, where, one hears, they are
playing to houses so large they are
“bursting at the seams.” Mrs. C. T.
Lorenz, back from that city, was one of
the guests and reported that a business-
manager had been found there and would
shortly take up office here, along with an
assistant-manager. Mrs. Lister, in black
lace and a sequin-studded lace stole,
stretched out a welcoming hand to about
60 guests, including the Minister for the
Philippines, Dr. Regala, and Madame
Regala, Signor and Madame Simone,
Italian Consul-General shortly to depart
for Italy after three years here. Lady
Braddon, Consul-General for Denmark
Dr, E. Trolle Hansen and Mrs. Hansen,
Mrs. A. H. Chartres and Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Lane.
☆ ☆ ☆
There was a terrific crush at the sherry-
party which set the Society of Artists
Exhibition on its way—nearly 700 people
m the Department of Education’s Gallery
Art Jr ♦ 7° Cal and vef y weU-dressed!
Artist B today are well past the smock-
and-sandal stage, apparently. Mrs.
Douglas Dundas, whose husband is presi-
aent of the society, wore a tie-silk suit,
black with gold and purple spots and
sngntly Renaissance sleeves (which
sounds rather dramatic, but was reaUy
quite reserved), Elaine Haxton wore a
rob-watch on her waistcoat; Loraa
arvey, from Castlecrag, wore hers on
a band round her throat, which gave it
a somewhat surrealist effect.
Margaret Lord’s cinnamon suit was
very elegant and was nicely touched off
by the upstanding faille leaves, bronze
and beaded, which circled her hair at
the back. Miss Thea Proctor was there,
youthful Philippa Keane, Marisa Mar-
telh, Anne le Guay, Anita Aarons, and a
number of bearded gentlemen of the
art World who seem willing to bring
back the Elizabethan age in one respect,
at any rate. Mr. E. W. Burbridge’s
opening speech sparkled with quotations
so apt one almost felt he’d made them
up himself for the occasion.
* * ☆
Members of the United Services In-
stitution concentrated at their club-rooms
in Young-street for one of their friendly
cocktail-parties on Friday, Rear-
Admiral A. H. Showers and Mrs. Showers
doing the welcoming to about 150 guests,
including Brigadier and Mrs. Galleghan,
and Commander and Mrs. lan Purvis.
Mrs. Bruce Macfarlan wore the fashion-
able combination of beige and black,
her tiny hat a network of sequined black
velvet over net. Mrs. A. J. S. Cottor,
who was hatless, looked glamorous in
black with a full-length fur coat and
pearl-drop earrings. There is always a
“reunion” flavor at the institution parties.
Miss Bromell (of Margaret Reid
Hospital) and Margaret Gully, who runs
the T.PJ. Transport Service, renewed
acquaintance after some years. Captain
and Mrs. Keith Morris, assisted by son
Barry, and secretary Miss Southwell-
Keily kept a hospitable eye on all during
a very pleasant party.
☆ ☆ ☆
♦
Skimming through the reported find-
ings of the Kinsey research on women’s
sex life, one begins to wonder whether
Dr. Kinsey has yet been told the facts
of life about babies. He never seems to
mention them. Or doesn’t he think they’re
important?
☆ ☆ ☆
The most intriguing dolls on sale in
the shops at present are those with nylon
hair which can be washed and permed.
A special perm-set is supplied with each
doll. The biggest of the dolls, 18in.
high, costs round about £5. The most
expensive doll on sale in one of our
leading stores, by the way, is £25, the
cheapest 10s.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Rupert Scammell, who is chair-
man of the committee for the Lady
Anderson Appeal, says that the Steinway
piano which is to be presented to the
University in Lady Anderson’s memory
has already been ordered, and that it
should not be long before it arrives. The
committee, formed in March, has raised
more than £l5OO during the past six
months —a really remarkable effort.
☆ ☆ ☆
Somewhere to go on October 30 is
the Troc. at 2.30, when Mrs. C. M.
Guiney is arranging an afternoon-tea
and mannequin-parade in aid of the
Croydon Home for Orphan Children.
June Dally-Watkins is to be the compere
and will show a special four-piece en-
semble which is to solve all your summer-
dress problems at one go.
☆ ☆ *
From the menu in a Chinese cafe:
“Prawn - omelette, mushroom - omelette,
chicken-omelette, egg-omelette.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Two parties were given by Mr. and
Mrs. Eric Nettheim at their Bellevue Hill
home during the week, the first on Wed-
nesday in honor of Professor C. O.
Johnson and Mrs. Johnson, who are re-
turning to their home in Washington.
D.C., after several months in Australia.
(The* professor has been lecturing on
political science here.) A young people’s
party was given two days later to
announce the engagstnsth of fh® younger
daughter of the house, Pamela, to Maun
j Point, son of Mr. M. V. Point, of
Point Piper, and Mrs. J. Point, of Mel-
bourne.


HENRY LAWSON’S
COUNTRY
GULGNG IN "THE ROARING DAYS"
A VERSE-PICTORIAL
Holtermann
May Moore Photo
Lawson
Merlin
based on the Holtermann
Collection of Photographs
taken by Merlin and Bayliss
80. HOLTERMANN was a goldminer of Hill
• End, New South Wales, who achieved world-
wide fame when in October, 1872, there was found in
his shaft the largest specimen of reef gold ever located
in the world —it weighed over seven thousand ounces.
Holtermann is also remembered for his building, in
1874, the residence and tower in North Sydney
which is now occupied by the Sydney Church of
England Grammar School (“Shore”).
The Holtermann photographic collection was re-
discovered late in 1951 by the grandson of its founder,
in the company of members of the editorial staff of
“The Australasian Photo-Review.” It had been stored
away in a backyard shed in a North Sydney suburb,
its existence forgotten for more than a generation.
At the suggestion of Kodak (Australasia) Pty.,
Ltd., the Holtermann Estate offered the collection to
the Mitchell Library, Sydney, and, in due course, the
collection was placed on the accession-list by the
trustees.
The negatives numbered in all several thousand
and embraced a wide variety of formats ; moreover,
the position was complicated by the absence of any
form of catalogue or titling. Fortunately, the situation
was relieved by a number of factors ; for instance, the
“A.P.-R.” editorial staff was aware of the locale of
Holtermann’s many activities and personal interests,
while the most important group carried serial-numbers
as well as much internal evidence as to location. Many
local residents, together with historians, mining
engineers and geologists, successfully co-operated in the
task of identification, with special acknowledgment to
the valuable contributions made by Charles Marshall.
The collection as a whole possesses two out-
standing features. First, the generally fair to
excellent quality of the negatives—and, of course, the
possession of the actual negatives, rather than merely
prints, was most important. Secondly, there is the
aspect of the collection’s unique value as a contribution
to Australiana. That section of earliest date represents
a complete coverage of the New South Wales mining
towns of Gulgong (sixteen miles north of Mudgee) and
Hill End (fifty miles north of Bathurst), depicting every
aspect of the life of those early communities with a
completeness that must be seen to be believed.
The whole of the negatives in the collection were
made by Beaufoy Merlin and his assistant, Charles
Bayliss, by the wet-plate process, which involved
coating, exposing and processing on the spot all
within a quarter of an hour.
In the collection of Merlin photographs which
follows, selection of both photographs and verses was
the work of Keast Burke, of “The Australasian Photo-
Review,” who also provided the documentary detail
Simultaneous publication of photographs and verses is
occurring, by arrangement with Kodak (Australasia)
Pty., Ltd., in “The Australasian Photo-Review,” to
which The Bulletin makes acknowledgment, as it
does also to the Mitchell Library and Angus and
Robertson.


Merlin and Lawson
By KEAST BURKE
mm 7 m HROUGHOUT the making, preser-
S vation and cataloguing of The
V j Holtermann Collection there have
occurred many strange happen-
ings. But there is one coincidence of
major importance—this was the matter
of the exti.(ordinary concurrence in time
and place of much of the work of “the
first articulate voice of the real Australia,”
and of Australia’s first great documentary
photographer, in the respective persons of
Henry Lawson and Beaufoy Merlin. It
was a happy stroke of fate that these two
great interpreters of the Australian Scene
should have approached each other so
closely when they could quite easily have
been a generation or two apart in time
and thousands of miles apart in distance.
Henry Lawson was born on the Gren-
fell goldfields in 1867, and when he was
about three or four the family moved to
a selection at Eurunduree, an area which
is about four miles along the road that
leads north from Mudgee to Home Rule
and Gulgong. There he lived until he
had reached his mid-teens. To quote
Lawson himself: “In the first fifteen
years of my life I saw the last of the
roaring days on Gulgong Goldfields. I
remember the rush as a boy might his
first and on’y pantomime.” It was to be
expected, then, that this Eurunduree (or
Pipeclay, as it was popularly called),
the setting for the impressionistic years
of the writer’s boyhood, should be
destined to play a significant part in his
great literary output. In the end we were
to find that:
Not less than fifty of Lawson’s stories,
and between forty and fifty of his
verses, are set in that small landscape
between Mudgee in the south and Gul-
gong eighteen miles to the north, all
held in a circle on the range. It was to
the people of this valley, real and
imaginary, that Lawson gave immort-
ality. It is the Cudgegong Valley of the
old roaring days that was once invaded
by no fewer than twenty thousand
miners. In it lived the diggers, the
small struggling selectors, the shanty-
keepers and the outlaws and, along
the rich river flats, the wealthy
squatters. Along the roads of the
valley rolled the coaches of Cobb and
Co., and the long slow-moving bullock
teams.
Lawson himself has told us of the
traffic a'.ong this road as he well recalled
it; “There were... .teams with loads of
bark and rafters, and tables upside-
down with bedding and things between
the legs, and baskets hanging round and
gold-cradks, gold-dishes, windlasses and
picks and shovels ; and there were more
drays and carts and children and women
and goats—some tied behind the carts
—and men and horses and men walking.
All the world was shifting as fast as ever
it could.”
From his father, too, young Henry
would have learnt a great deal. As T. D.
Mutch has told us:
Peter Lawson did not join up with
the early rushes, though he lived only
fifteen miles away. He waited until
late in 1871 before he joined the army
that marched on hope and excitement
past his door. Peter worked on claims
in the Happy Valley, and again on the
Canadian Lead. In the former he
bottomed on payable gold; and
“mother,” some aunts, and the children,
Henry and Charlie, were sent on their
first holiday trip to Sydney.
As he grew older he would have come
to visit the actual workings, some of
which, such rs “The Log Paddock,” were
only a few miles away ; moreover, he
would have talked with the miners. Later
he would have gone further north to the
great Home Rule field and to Gulgong
itself. Nothing that he saw was to be
forgotten ; his memory was destined to
store up every element in the great
panorama, landscape and people alike.
In his first published sho t story (“An
Old Mate of Your Father’s”) he gives us
a crisp word-picture of the appearance of
the typical miner of the day; “Occa-
sionally the old mate would come dressed
in clean white moleskins, washed tweed
coat, Crimean shirt, blucher boots, soft
felt hat and with a fresh-looking speckled
handkerchief around his neck.”
Another facet. This quotation comes
from the story “Christmas on the Gold-
fields,” and it is one of special interest in
view of the illustration on page 24 :
Xmas on the Goldfields in the last
of the Roaring Days; in the palmy days
of Gulgong and the golden days. Let’s
see, it must be nearly 30 years ago!
Oh, how the time goes by!
Santa Claus, young, fresh-faced and
eager; Santa Claus, blond, flaxen; Santa
Claus, dark; Santa Claus with a brogue;
Santa Claus speaking broken English;
Santa Claus as a Chinaman (Sun Tong
Lee & Co., Storekeepers), with strange
and delicious sweets that melted in our
mouths, and rum toys and Chinese dolls
for the children.
Henry Lawson’s ballads also call for
attention. To quote Robert D. Fitz-
Gerald, “the poem ‘The Roaring Days’
(probably his best) contains the true
depth and sincerity of folk-poetry” ; of
the truth of this, readers can readily
judge for themselves from the two
stanzas which have been reprinted.
Turning to the accompanying Merlin
photographs, under several of which are
reproduced appropriate Lawson verses:
these photographs and verses match each
other so perfectly that the photographer
and the writer appear to have been look-
ing almost through the same pair of eyes.
Yet, at the same time, it must remain
one of Australia’s minor literary calami-
ties that Lawson was born some 15 or
16 years too late. It is tantalising to think
that he was too young to have walked
down Queen-street, Gulgong, in its hey-
day, when “it was without a doubt the
most crowded thoroughfare in Australia.
It was a blaze of light o’ nights... .the
hotels were doing a roaring trade, so also
were the shanties up and down the street.”
As a child of three or four he could
hardly have been expected to recall the
noises of the streets when “the click of
billiard-balls was [to be] heard on every
side and the ear was charmed (or other-
wise) by the playing of concertinas,
accordions, jew’s-harps, flutes, tin-
whistles, etc., at every fancy-goods store
where the patrons were ‘trying before
buying.’ ” Just a little older—and how
much more he would have remembered ;
most certainly he would have told us of
the daily scene outside Hunter’s bootshop
as the miners bought new boots —and
threw their old ones out into the street!
Another 15 years previously, and
Lawson would almost certainly have
been on the staff of one or other of the
town’s three newspapers. What a wealth
of material he would have found amongst
Gulgong’s personalities, both local and
visiting ; how many characters for yet
another hundred short-stories! For
instance, there was John Scully, the
“Ballarat” baker—rough diamond, big-
hearted and philanthropic, who was
eventually able to renounce his baker’s-
cart and become a rich claim-holder
through his shares ; these had been made
over to him by the grateful miners on the
Black Lead, for it was only his freely-
given loaves that had enabled many of
them to carry on until they had got
through the deep basalt-flow that barred
the way to the alluvial gold.
And what would he not have done
with those three great talkers —Peter
Campbell, the bush missionary ;
“Brummy,” the “Parramatta cheapjack” ;
and George Davies, the auctioneer. “It
was hard to say which was the biggest
blower....it was as good as a play to
listen to the crossfiring.” Then there was
“that rumbustious character, McDonald
the Piper and that famous New Year
night when he strolled up and down the
street blowing a full blast upon his pipes.”
He was “a man of courage and com-
bative withal, no respecter of creeds or
persons.” It was hardly surprising that
some of his martial airs were considered
by others as insulting. In consequence,
“for pretty well an hour a battle grim
and great” raged between opposing fac-
tions at the upper end of Herbert-street.
Though McDonald’s pipes were smashed
to pieces, it all ended up “with the enemy
signally routed.”
As for the visitors, in “The Lights of
Cobb & Co.” we hear of the “bright girl”
singer who sang for sinful camps, “who
stirred our hearts.. . ..wild hearts that
hope and ache.” But, of course, there
were other singers of vastly different
type. Those stages, too, “where the
world’s best actors trod” —-what a tale
those boards could tell of varied enter-
tainment from pantomime to Shakspeare,
of the mannerisms and strange foibles of
the actors and actresses.
Other visitors, too, gentlemen “of the
cloth” such as the Bishop who. travelled
many weary miles to lay the foundation-
stone of a first church. It was a sad
story; the miners, ever generous, were
ready with their nuggets “to lay on the
stone,” but the Bishop, instead of per-
forming the ceremony first, gave priority
to his sermon —which turned out to be so
long and so involved that most of the
miners decided to depart, - with their
dedicated nuggets still in their pockets!
Merlin’s period of working in the area
was during July and August, 1872. As
Lawson would then have been only four
or five years of age, it is unlikely that we
shall ever find that ultimate in Australiana
—a portrait of Lawson photographed by
Merlin in the streets of Gulgong.
But we can be well content with what
we have “those people... .who are
imperishably alive in the works of
Lawson, stand as alive and as vital in
the photographs of Merlin.”
In the Lawson Country
By W. E. FITZ HENRY
TO get the feel and the color of the
best in Lawson you need to go to the
t , j . -
Lawson country and absorb the atmos-
phere.
The remains of his boyhood home at
Eurunderee, near Mudgee (N.S.W.), still
stand—the fireplace and chimney and
part of an ivy-covered veranda-post,
together with a stone shelter-shed, en-
closed by a square of low stone walls,
now preserved as a national memorial.
The road to Mudgee and the neighbor-
ing Lawson territories of Eurunderee and
Gulgong, lined with a blaze of golden
wattle when I travelled it, is one of the
oldest coach-routes in the State and dates
back to the bushranging days—even to
convict times. In his story “The House
That Was Never Built,” Henry Lawson
says;—•
It ran through tall, dark bush, up over
gaps or “saddles” in high ridges, down
across deep dark gullies, and here and there
across grey, marshy, curlew-haunted flats.
Cobb and Co.’s coach-and-six, with “Royal
Mail” gilded on the panels, had dashed
over it in ten- and twelve-mile stages in the
8S S' da*' bu e s e h h S d S: aSf'Zyb"
twenty-four passengers on board. The
biggest rushes to the richest goldfields in
the west had gone over this old road on
coaches, on carts, on drays, on horse-
and bullock-wagons, on horseback and
on foot; newchums from all the world and
from all stations in life.
Mudgee—the Solong, Redclay, Gee-
bung and Cudgegong of many Lawson
stories—was not the down-at-heels town
that Lawson pictured in his caustic
sketch “The Little World Left Behind.”
It was the Solong of “His Brother’s
Keeper”—“A pretty little farming town
in a circle of blue hills on the banks of
a clear, willow-fringed river, where there
were rich, blacksoil, riverflat farms, and
vineyards on the red-soil slopes, and blue
peaks in the distance.”
Mudgee was, too, the weekend I stayed
there (four years ago now, when the
Lawson memorial was dedicated), the
Solong of “Barney,. Take Me Home
Again,” and the days I spent there were,
like the day the Johnsons left Solong to
return to their, native London, “blue and
green and golden,” with the skies their
fairest and the hills shrouded in purple
mist.
In Mudgee there still stands the house
that Lawson’s grandfather, . Henry
Albury, built in Lewis-street, nearly 100
years ago; —,
He was a great man in Mudgee in the
early days- [wrote Henry in 1905], He
cleared the main street,, and owned blocks,
of land in town. He lost them. Amongst
other things he was an undertaker. He
buried many, and under all sorts of condi-
tions — some in sheets of bark; and he was
in great demand at funerals. He usually
had a coffin cut out roughly and stuck up
over the tie . be ams of the kitchen to season,
and wait. The family hated this sort of
thing. They say he generally had an eye
on a prospective client, too, and cut his
c 0 n accol inBy ‘
There can also be seen in Mudgee the
old Wesleyan Parsonage where Lawson’s
father and mother Peter Larsen and
Louisa Albury—were married in 1866.
Lawson’s father was a Norwegian sailor,
who came to Australia as quartermaster
of a Norwegian vessel and who left his
ship to seek a fortune on the Victorian
goldfields.
He came to Pipeclay—now called
Eurunderee—and there met Louisa
Albury. Lawson’s mother was of un-
usual character and ability and became
an outstanding figure as a radical jour-
nalist and feminist. She exercised a
strong influence on her son’s literary work
. ° ~ , , r , • 10fM
h) its earliest days, and in 1894 published
his first book, Short Stories in Prose and
Verse a poorly-printed little volume,
which was favorably received but brought
in little money.
You can also see the little Catholic
school w flich Henry attended under a
TT ar . r ,.
Mr. Kevan. Once or twice, vyrote He
in his unfinished autobiography, now in
the Mitchell Library, “Mr. Kevan came
and sat beside me, as I sat lonely and un-
happy by myself on a stool in a corner
of the yard, and drew me out of myself,
and talked to me about poetry and Edgar
Allan Poe.” Lawson’s mother had a
copy of Poe, and Henry often heard her
read “The Raven” and other poems aloud,
and he read them himself later on, over
and over again.
Still standing also is the Mechanics’
Institute, from the library of which,
when at school at Mudgee, Lawson
borrowed books, and discovered David
Copperfield for the first time.
I have read Dickens over and over again,
and can read him now at any time [he
wrote]. Next I read Marryat — Jacob Faith-
full and Peter Simple. 1 paid a visit to my
mother’s people at Wallerawang, and, on
leaving, one of my aunts presented me with
a volume of Bret Harte’s containing “Ten-
nessee’s Partner,” etc. I read that book
on the journey home and it fascinated me;
it seemed to bring a new light, a new
world into my life, and this with Dickens
still fresh. But Dickens stayed with me
and Bret Harte did not.
In the ancient Church of England
cemetery are the graves of Trooper
Campbell, of the ballad of that name;
Dr. Belinfante, who appears in a number
of Lawson’s stories; and of old Mr.
(Continued on page 25)
DETAILS OF THE PHOTOGRAPHS
Page 21 {top): Public school of bark-and-
poles construction on one of the outfields of
Gulgong—probably on the Black Lead. It is
unlikely that it is the actual “old bark
school” which Lawson described.
Page 21 {bottom): Looking north down
Herbert-street (west side) towards Black
Lead, from a point near its intersection with
Mayne-street (also known as Queen-street);
to the left can be seen the premises of S. H.
Barnes (Mudgee Drug Store) on the corner ;
the two-story building seen to the rear is
Selff’s Hotel, “The Gulgong Guardian,” A.
McCulloch (bookseller and stationer), Dr.
Belinfante’s rooms and A. Myer’s watch-
making and jewellery business. In the dust
of the distance can be seen several horse-
drawn wagons bringing supplies to the many
new stores.
Page 22 {top): Dr. Lelly’s surgery was
situated on the south side of Mayne-street
West. At the time there were about six or
seven other doctors in Gulgong.
Page 22 {bottom): At this time there were
three newspapers in Gulgong: “The Gulgong
Guardian,” “The Gulgong Mercantile
Advertiser” and “The Gulgong Argus”; the
latter’s premises, as illustrated above, were
situated in Belmore-street. No copies of
the “Argus” appear to have survived, but
it would appear to have been rather more
outspoken in its views than its contem-
poraries.
Page 23 {top): A typical shaft on the
Gulgong field showing “pig-sty” construction
of the shaft-collar. Points of interest are;
windlass (normally fitted with a primitive
form of brake), rawhide buckets and ven-
tilation-fan; a slab fence (similar to that
behind the men’s jackets) divides the pay-
wash (seen on the left) from the mullock
on the right.
Page 23 {bottom): Binder’s Star Hotel and
London Music Hall was situated next to the
Oriental Bank on the north side of Mayne-
street, between Herbert and Medley-streets.
It is believed that this photograph can be
accurately dated (by the inclusion of the
illuminated canvas-box sign featuring “Mr.
and Mrs. Holloway to-night”) to July 20,
1872. There were two other theatres in Gul-
gong at the time, Ward's and Cogdon s
“Prince of Wales.”
Page 24 {top): A blacksmith’s forge,
probably at Black Lead. There are many
references in Lawson to the “tinkle of the
pointing-forges,” for they were a prominent
feature by virtue both of their large numbers
and their continuous sound, which appeared
to come from every angle. The iron from
which the miners’ picks were made was
comparatively soft, and the basalt-flow deep
and hard; in consequence sharpening was
an endless process. Other forge jobs included
the shoeing of the whip-horses and the
bending of the iron handles of the wind-
lasses.
Page 24 {bottom): Sun Tong Lee’s general
store, which was situated in Herbert-street
about half-way down the hill. This photo-
graph is of particular interest in view of the
fact that Sun Tong Lee’s was one of tne
very few establishments to which Lawson
referred by its correct name in his writings.
There was strong rivalry between the Chinese
and English storekeepers.
Page 25: A puddling-machine with drays
bringing alluvial wash for treatment, prob-
ably in the Black Lead area. The function
of the machine was to break up the clay
and to make it into a slurry, preparatory
to putting it through the gold-saving boxes.
Page 26: This is not a Gulgong photo-
graph, but a Hill End one—however, it
was so particularly applicable to the Lawson
verse that it has been included in the
portfolio. *


It was built of bark and poles, and the roof was full of holes
And each leak in rainy weather made a pool;
And the walls were mostly cracks lined with calico and sacks —
There was little need for windows in the school.
Then we rode to school and back by the nigged gully-track,
On the old grey horse that carried three or four;
And he looked so very wise that he lit the master’s eyes
Every time he put his head in at the door.
—From “The Old Bark School,’’ The Bulletin, 22/5/1897
[Herbert-street, Gulgong, in the town's "Roaring Days' —about July or August, 1872. See page 20.]


V
By the path through the saplings we ran, as the great drops came pattering down,
To the first of the low-lying hills that lay between us and the town ;
There she suddenly drew me aside with her beautiful instinct of love
As the clatter of hoofs reached our ears, and a horseman loomed darkly above.
’Twas the Doctor; he reined up, and sat for the first moment pallid and mute;
Then lifted his hand to his hat with his old-fashioned martial salute,
And said with a glance at the ridge, looming black with its pine-tops awhirl,
“Take my coat, you are caught in the storm !” and he whispered “Be true to the girl!"
—From “Ruth,” in The Bulletin, 20/12/1902
On a golden day in summer, when the stinrays were aslant,
Brown arrived in Cambaroora with a little printing plant
And his worldly goods and chattels—rather damaged on the way —
And a weary-looking woman who was following the dray.
He had bought an empty humpy, and, instead of getting tight,
Why, the diggers heard him working like a lunatic all night:
A ml next day a sign of canvas, writ in character of tar,
Claimed the humpy as the office of the “Cambaroora Star.”
Lord, that press ! It was a jumper—we could seldom get it right.
And were lucky if we averaged a hundred in a night.
Then we’d sit, all three together, in the windy hut and fold.
And I helped the thing a little when 1 struck a patch of gold.
But we battled for the diggers as the papers seldom do,
Though at times, when diggers errored, then we touched the diggers too.
Yet the paper took the fancy of that roaring mining town.
And the diggers sent a nugget, with their sympathy to Brown.
—From “The Cambaroora Star,” in “The Boomerang,” Brisbane, 19/12/1891


It chanced in the first of the ’sixties that Ally and I and McKean
Were sinking a shaft on Mundoorin, near Fosberry’s puddle-machine.
The bucket we used was a big one, and rather a weight when ’twas full,
Though A lister wound it up easy, for he had the strength of a bull.
He’d hinted at heart-disease often ; but, setting his fancy apart,
I always believed there was nothing the matter with Cameron s heart.
The strength of despair was upon me ; I started, and scarcely drew breath.
But climbed to the top for dear life in the fear of a terrible death.
And there, with his waist on the handle, I saw the dead form of my mate,
And over the shaft hung the bucket, suspended by Cameron’s weight.
He’d thought of my danger, not his, when he felt in his bosom the smart.
And stuck to the handle in spite of the Finger of Death on his heart.
—“Camerons Heart,” from the “Poetical Works of Henry Lawson ’ (A. and R.)
Sunrise on the olden diggings! {Oh, what life and hopes are here.)
From a hundred pointing-forges comes a tinkle, tinkle, clear —
Strings of drays with wash to puddle, clack of countless windlass-boles,
Here and there the red flag flying, flying over golden holes.
Rough-built theatres and stages where the world’s best actors trod;
Singers bringing reckless rovers nearer boyhood, home and God;
Paid in laughter, tears and nuggets in the drama fortune plays—
’l is the palmy days of Gulgong—Gulgong in the Roaring Days.
—From “The Last. Review,” The Bulletin, 29/7/1904


The night too quickly passes
And we are growing old, ,
So let us fill our glasses
. And toast the Days of Gold ;
When finds of wondrous treasure
Set all the South ablaze,
And you and I were faithful mates
All through the Roaring Days!
/ hear the fall of timber
From distant flats ami fells.
The pealing■ of the anvils
As clear as little bells,
The rattle of the cradle.
The clack of windlass - boles,
The flutter of the crimson flags
A hove the golden holes.
—From “The Roaring Days” (The Bulletin, 21/12/1889)
[Sun Tong Lee’s store was referred to by Lawson in “Christmas on the Goldfields.”]
u wm** m- ■■■* *■* ****'*'»* msm' m ...m. ~mm Om * • WMJMG&k, mas&te& MXtAtM
■ ■ ■
!


tv I, i, , ■ i i r
Buchholtz, who ..was, a • neighbor of the
Lawsons when they lived at Eurunderee,
and who is a -character in the stories
“Buckolt’s Gate’.’ and “Roll Up at Tal-
bra is r 1
At the corner of Market- and Duro-
streets there still can be seen the two-
storied building, the scene of a forcible
entry one night by a young man who was
arrested and tried for attempted burglary,
and sentenced to seven years’ imprison-
ment, despite his plea that he had forced
his’way in only to see his sweetheart.
The incident was used by Lawson in the
ballad “Ruth,” and the story “The Hero
of Redclay.” Not far from the old
building is the Mudgee Courthouse, where
the. young man was tried.
Mudgee is also the scene of “Drifted
Back,” that brief but particularly effec-
tive sketch which tells of a man’s dis-
illusionment when he returns after a long
absence to his home-town. It is the site,
too, of that fine story, “Telling Mrs.
Baker.”
Eurunderee, the scene of so much that
is best in Lawson’s works, is five miles
outside Mudgee, on the road to Home
Rule and Gulgong. It is not, however,
as is often thought, the birthplace of
Henry Lawson. He was born, on June
17, 1867, in a tent on the Weddin
Mountains goldfield, a mile out of the
present town of Grenfell' (N.S.W.), near
a shaft his father had sunk for gold,
Known as the One Mile, the spot is now
marked by an obelisk. Henry’s father
had taken his young bride there, ■ from
their little hut on the Pipeclay diggings
shortly after their marriage.
Pipeclay [wrote Lawson] had petered out
before my people went with the rush to
Grenfell. Pipeclay was a stony, barren
ridge, two little gullies full of digger-holes
caving in, a little brown flat, a few tumble-
down huts, an old farm or two on the out-
skirts, blue-grey scrub, • Scotch thistles,
£S'Vd ea She?S„e b Sd ra d n LraifS:
But the hills were still blue in the distance.
The family did not stay long at Gren-
fell and were soon back at Pipeclay, or
Eurunderee, where they: lived for a short
time in a tent, on a, good frame, with a
little bark room in front, lined with
“scrim,” papered with newspaper. There
was a tree in front of the tent—or hut —
“a bluegum, I think,” wrote Lawson,
“and I knew it had a forked trunk.”
The tree haunted my early childhood [he
some day. Perhaps I looked up, and the
white clouds flying over made the top of
the tree seem to move. The tent and the
tree are the first things I remember.
TT , f , '- u „
, Henrys father built a two-roomed
slab-and-bark-hut over the flat on rihe
other side of the gully on the Gulgong
[ oad - Grandfather a
kitchen, and:helpe.l to sink.a> wd. But
*h e y IC , „• I ), e . m f th . i<nvial
u |g on si . as ° , e , 8 p T -
™shes, had broken out and Pe ei Larsen
havuig caug l & ~ g >
iS y to 1 ® ne . toB 8 ' . , .
Gulgong Peter Larsen worked in
a claim in the Happy Valley and lat er a
Home Rule, on the Canadian Lead , u
at (he end pt two unprofitable years,
during which Peter sank shaft atCi s a ,
Ike family were back at Pipeclay again.
There Peter a small stoie, was
a postmaster for eight months, and file
i n several, deep shafts on his proper y,
which a swarm of trespassing miners
opened up the next yeai.
In 1876—when Henry was nine—Peter
Larsen built the first public school at
Eurunderee and the slab-and-bark hut
was made available as a residence to the
schoolteacher, John Tierney (the father
of the short-story writer and novelist
“Brian James”). Peter. Larsen then built
himself a new sawn-timber hardwood
house, with a galvanised-iron roof and
a brick chimney, which last was the envy
of neighbors who had only
chimneys.
This 1876 weatherboard cottage,
screened by trees, was the famous Lawson
home. It appeared in many a Lawson
poem and story. As Tom Mutch said:
“Henry built it of bark, and of slabs. He
floored it with clay and with pine. He
ror .f pr i ; t bark and with shinsles
rooted it with bailc and witn sningies
and gave it as many rooms as suited his
convenience.” • -
g u j. fi was always the same home —-
the old selection home-in which Henry,
“from his bed with straining ears, listened
through the cracks in the slabs to the
tales told around the kitchen table.. It
was the scene of so much of Lawson
at his best that even the still-standing
fireplace and chimney are a shrine as
hallowed as are the old homes of Henry
Kendall and Adam Lindsay Goidon.
It was the home to which the tired
father, with an axe or a pick and shovel
on his shoulders, leturned at night with
clay-stained moleskins; where waited
“the drover’s wife”:
Near midnight. The children are asleep
and she sits there still, sewing and reading
by turns. - From, time to. time .she. glances ■
round the floor and wall-plate, and when-
ever she hears a noise she reaches for the
stick. The thunderstorm comes on, and
the wind, rushing through the cracks in the
slab wall, threatens to blow but her candle.
She places it on. a sheltered place of the
dresser, and fixes up a newspaper to protect
it. At every flash of lightning the cracks
between the slabs gleam like polished silver.
The thunder rolls, and the rain comes down
in torrents., • .
It was the old home where passed
along the dusty road to Mudgee the wool-
teams “rolling like ships in a gale”;
where called-in “An Old Mate of Your
Father’s.” - , • - -
You remember [Henry says in this happy
story], when ,we hurried home from the
old bush school; how we were sometimes
startled by a bearded apparition, : who smiled
kindly down on ms, and whom our mother
introduced, as we raked off our- hats, as
“An old mate of your father’s on the dig-
gings, Johnny.” And he would pat our
heads and say we were fine boys, or girls —
as the case . may', havebeen—and that we
had our father’s nose but our mother’s
eyes, or the other- way about; and say that
the baby was the dead spit of.its mother,
and then added for -father’s benefit: “But
yet he’s like you, Tom.”
It was the home to which Lawson’s
thoughts continually returned in the years
of his adulthood. Sometimes the
thoughts were bitter thoughts, as in “A
Child. in the Dark,” a story, which,
although printed in The Bulletin and
reprinted in Triangles of Life and Other
Stories, was not included in his Collected
Prose Works. Every word of it is auto-
biographical, and it shows his father —
sober, industrious, kindly and patient
Peter Larsen —coming home at night,
after a hard day’s work and a five-miles
walk from . Mudgee, to a disorganised
houses —untidy, the washing-up not done,
the children dirty, the wife reading, in
bed. In this tense and moving story,
lightened only by the remarkable toler-
ance of the, father,. Lawson describes how
the elder son (himself) lay in bed “quak-
ing with terror, dreading one of those
cruel and shameful scenes which made
a hell of his childhood.”
The marriage of Peter Larsen and
Louisa Albury was, to quote their son,
“one of those utterly impossible matches
so common in Australia,” and it was in-
evitable that the plodding, unimagina-
tive Peter and the ambitious, highly
strung Louisa should agree to separate
before Henry was out of his ’teens.
Again and again—in such stories as
“Settling on the Land,” “A Day on a
Selection,” “The Drover’s Wife” and
“Water Them Geraniums” —Lawson
writes with bitterness, .'.and . sometimes
with a corrosive hatred, of the hardship
and poverty, squalor and misery, of - his
Eurunderee childhood.
- To the untrained eye of the townsman
the old Lawson property at Eurunderee
and thereabouts looks fresh and green
enough, but Tom Mutch, who has been
over the old place manyAimes, has said:
Two-thirds of it comprise barren, stony
ridges; it takes in the whole of Lawson’s
Hill, all useless, either for cultivation or
pasture. There is no permanent. water on
■ it, and that portion of.it which is flat—one-
third —is half-covered with filled-in mining
■ shafts. Nobody has been able- to do any-
thing with it since; nobody- ever will until
• some crop is' invented' that will derive
nourishment from mullock-heaps. Thistles
will do that, but then there is no sale for
them. • - . . i ’ h
Too often is it assumed from the dark
passages in .his writings . that Lawson’s
boyhood was unrelieved unhappiness.
Lawson himself gives the denial, to that
assumption. “Looking back, to my boy-
hood and childhood,” he wrote,' “I can
find many things that were bright and
happy, and good and kind and beautiful
and heroic.” -
There is certainly happiness in the
poem “Eurunderee,” written for the Bris-
bane “Boomerang” nine years after he
left the Mudgee district. There is
laughter, too, in that delightful piece “Kiss
iu the Ring”, and in the rollicking
stanzas of “The Shakedown on the Floor.”
And, if further proof is needed, there is
that fine carefree piece' called “Days
When .We Went. Swimming.” The scene
of that poem is Eurunderee-Creek, which,
fringed by - trees, - can be seen clearly
today from the site of -the memorial. It
was the creek to which the diggers in
Golden and Sapling Gullies, which flank
two, sides of-the Lawson property, had to
cart their wash-dirt to pan it off. It was
a lovely stream before the diggers came,
and after they went and the bush
reclaimed some of; its own again.
Up the road from Lawson’s old home
is the site of the stone hut which old Joe
Swallow built himself, at .the foot of
Golden Gully. Joe Swallow—Lawson,
by the way, borrowed the name more than
o Continued on next page )
[A puddling-machine with drays bringing alluvial wash for treatment .]


once for a nom-de-plume—with his clay-
pipe, and his hat pushed back from his
brow, turns up in many a Lawson story,
to sit by the fireside and yarn about the
old days on the diggings.
On the road to Gulgong, past Golden
Gully and opposite Log Paddock, stood
“The Shanty on the Rise.” Known as
“The Bullock-drivers’ Rest” this shanty
was a favorite drinking-place of the
teamsters in the days when caravans of
wool-teams climbed the ranges from the
west. One of the teamsters, little Jimmy
Howlett (Nowlett in Lawson’s stories),
was able to throw some light on a subject
that had puzzled the Lawson family and
their friends. It appears that nobody
remembered ever hearing Grandfather
Albury laugh, although he could bellow
like a bull and often did.
~ , r . . . IT ... „
let/ ’was'out'lookhfg fMIEcT i?£
scrub just outside Mudgee, and had sat
down to rest and smoke on a log on the
edge of a little clearing about fifty yards
from the road, when he saw Grandfather
coming along. The old man seemed rather
more mysterious than usual, and Jimmy
watched him—he thought perhaps he had
come to look for some timber. Grand-
father glanced round very cautiously, like
a blackfellow, but he didn’t see Jimmy.
Then he started to laugh. He laughed till
the tears ran down his cheeks. He put his
hands on ms hips and roared till he doubled
up, then, when he recovered, he straightened
himself, composed his face, and went back
whence he’d come. And thereafter it
worried Jimmy a good deal at times, for
he never could find out what Henry Albury
was laughing at that day.
Further north from The Shanty on
the Rise,” near where Snakes and
Woonambula Creeks merge to run into
Eurunderee Creek, stood a bark-and-slab
school, which was used as a church on
Sundays. It was in this building that
Peter McLaughlan, the bush-missionary
of “The Story of Gentleman Once,” “His
Brother's Keeper” and “Shall We Gather
at the River, preached on Sundays, and
where Clara South wick, who married a
schoolmate of Lawson s, played a portable
harmonium.
It had “a clay fireplace where the
teacher cooked, and a corner screened-
off with sacking where he had his bunk ;
it was a camp for tralnps at other times ;
or lizards and possums,” but on Sundays,
when a preacher turned up, “it was a
house of God, and as such the people
respected it.”
The old one-room hut, which was
school and church combined, and also the
schoolteacher’s residence, was the first
school that Henry attended. He remem-
keied little or nothing of it, he has said,
except great spitting and rubbing or
ate f- c Later ; nearer home, two or three
ocks fiom the Lawson farm, and next-
door to / oe , Swallows smaU patch of
land at the loot of Golden Gully, there
!? UI t Larsen a
building which became the first Eurun-
deree public school,
was t Lirn ished with odds-and-ends
!^l 10 J wn oat °f *h e public school in
Mudgee, when that establishment got new
desks, stools and other things. Peter
Larsen made blackboards and easels and
tended the rickety furniture. It was “The
Old Bark School of the poem of that
«*«f-, The bark roof was fuU of holes,
and in rainy weather each leak made a
pool on the floor. There was little need
f ot windows, since “the walls were mostly
, „ r , ’ .. , . „ J
cracks lined with calico and sacks,
The headmaster—John Tierney—was
an Irishman who had served with the
Rritish Armv in Africa TTc wac civ feet
Br “ isn Army in Atnca. He was six feet
and more, and veiy gaunt. Once he tied
a string to the neck of a stone ink-bottle,
an d swung it round to illustrate the power
® * * on a T d course of the earth
round the sun. The string broke, and the
bottle went through a window-pane A
black goan na, a pet of the headmaster’s,
,01 .
™ ould stretch himself along a beam over
the girls seats, to the constant terror of
the smaller girls
A favorite fad of the master’s [wrote
Henry] was that the school, being built of
°. ld material, and standing on an exposed
SoSt.Tnd he' iraiSed th°7hU*e n To
dive under the desks at a given signal, so
that they might have a chance of escaping
the falling beams and rafters when the
olive'for
the first crack.
The bark . a nd-slab school was replaced
later by a new school of sawn slabs,
which Henry helped his father to build.
an d which he attended for a short time
He left the school with his brothers and
sister, after a dispute between his mother
and John Tierney, and was sent to a
school about three miles away, through
Sapling Gully and a track through the
range, at Pipeclay Creek.
In after-years the gullies of Eurun-
deree haunted Lawson as they did when
he was a child. To the child-mind the
dark, mysterious gullies were haunted with
the ghosts of dead diggers. There was the
ghost of old Joe Swallow in an old stone
hut at the foot of Sapling Gully ; and
the Chinaman’s ghost at the grave in
Golden Gully ; and the Hairy Man m
Long Gully. None of the Eurunderee
children would go through any of those
gullies after dark.
Henry stayed at the Pipeclay Creek
school for a couple of months, and was
then sent to the Catholic school at
Mudgee. He was, of course, a Protestant,
and the few Protestant pupils were sent
out during prayers in the morning, but as
Henry said “Woe betide the Catholic boy
who threw the Protestant boys’ religion in
their faces, whether he fell into the hands
of Mr. Kevan, the master, or Father
O’Donovan. ‘l’ll have none of that sort
of thing,’ said the father, with no soft-
ness in his voice. ‘Understand that once
and for all.’ ”
On the other side of Eurunderee Creek
lived the Buckholtzes, a prosperous
German family, whose farm was the scene
of “Buckolt’s Gate,” one of Lawson’s
few' love-stories. As a schoolboy, Henry
worshipped Mary Buckholtz, the daughter
of the family, from afar, as he did many
another girl in the district. Henry was
terribly shy of girls, and was shy of
women all his life. Incidentally, Mary
w'as almost always the name he chose for
his heroines, as witness Mary Carey, Mary
Wylie, Mary Wild and Mary Campbell.
But the girl who inspired those fine
poems, “The Sliprails and the Spur,”
“The Free-selector’s Daughter” and “The
Drover’s Sweetheart,” though called
Mary in the poems, was not a Mary, but
Bertha Lambert; or it may have been her
sister Bridget. Henry was apt to get his
girls mixed up in later years.
Opposite and further up the road from
the Lawson paddocks was Log PaddocK,
the scene of the last of the big rushes in
the Cudgegong Valley. When the gold
gave out there the attention of many of
the diggers who had married and
remained turned to the soil. Except that
the best land has now been cleared of
timber, Eurunderee today must be very
much as it was in the last days of Henry
Lawson's boyhood there—a farming
settlement scattered through and round
the Eurunderee hills,
Log Paddock was the scene of several
stories and many verses.
Eurunderee itself contains, apart from
places already referred to, at least half a
dozen other properties that were scenes
of Lawson stories and poems—the old
Ross, Wurth, Tierney, Southwick, Spencer
and Duggan selections. And to the south
is the farm once owned by Grandfather
Albury, about which Lawson wrote in
“Mount Buckaroo,” and to the north, a
good day's walk away, are the settings
of the Gulgong stories,
A brief summary of Lawson’s years in
the Cudgegong Valley will be found in
an article, “Pursuing Literature in Aus-
tralia,” which he wrote for The Bulletin
in 1899. He was eleven or twelve
when he first began to talk about being a
writer some day ; but he may have
cherished the idea earlier. It exasperated
his father, but his mother encouraged
him.
Henry left Eurunderee in 1882 when a
boy of fifteen, and five years later was
writing for The Bulletin. His first con-
tribution was “A Song of the Republic/’
published in the issue of October 1, 1882.
Li its Christmas number of the same year
The Bulletin printed two poems by
Henry Lawson—“ The Wreck of the
Derry Castle” and “Golden Gully.” To
the former was appended an editorial
note which said:
In publishing the subjoined verses we
take Erasure in stating that the writer
thereof is a boy of 17 [5/c] years, a young
Australian who has as yet an imperfect
education and is earning his living under
som e difficulties as a house-painter—a youth
whose poetic genius here speaks eloquent y
xiT'oiher poem. “Golden Gully,”
painted a pic f ure ' o( the Cudgegong
Valley. Lawson had returned, in imagina-
tion, to the scenes and people of his boy-
hood again and was to rev i s i t tbe place
. , .
111 1S mind and to write of l s peopL
throughout the whole of his writing life.
Note: The reference to “crimson flags” and
red flags over golden holes in Lawson’s verses
indicated that gold had been struck in those
mining shafts.
A day of seeming innocence,
A glorious sun and sky,
And, just above my picket fence,
Black Bonnet passing by.
In knitted gloves and quaint old dress
Without a spot or smirch .
Her worn face lit with peacefulness.
Old Granny goes to church.
Her hair is richly white, like milk,
That long ago was fair —
And glossy still the old black silk
She keeps for “chapel wear” ;
Her bonnet, of a bygone style
That long has passed away,
She must have kept a weary while
Just as it is today.
—From “Black Bonnet,” in the “Poetical Works of Henry Lawson” (Angus and Robertson)


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD JAMES HUGHES (Shearer).
—TAKE NOTICE that EASTER CECILIA
HUGHES has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2493 of 1953 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is ask-
ing for the exercise of the Court’s dis-
cretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 9th
November 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from ERIC N.
ROWLEY & CO., Solicitors, 107 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar. __
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HAROLD JOHN PULLER of Tam-
worth, Labourer.—TAKE NOTICE that
LORNA FULLER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4573 of 1952 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
26th October 1953 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from MES-
SIEURS BIDDULPH & SALENGER.
Solicitors, of 174 Phillip Street, Sydney.
—W. G. JAMES, for the Registrar.
Public Notices
In the Will of DAVID JOSEPH MONK
ADAMS late of Turramurra in the State
of New South Wales, Medical Practi-
tioner deceased.—Would anyone knowing
the whereabouts of ELSIE E. OKEY and
M. BURL, the attesting witnesses to the
Will of the abovenamed deceased, please
communicate with the undersigned.—
W. M. ADAMS & CO., Solicitors, 185
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
CATHERINE HAYES.—Any person
knowing the whereabouts of CATHERINE,
daughter of MICHAEL and JOHANNA
HAYES, formerly O’CONNOR, who was
bom at Melbourne on 31st July, 1886,
should immediately notify the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, of 412 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, who is Administering the estate
of DANIEL HAYES, deceased.
I, MALA THAU, of Polish nationality,
bom at Podkamien, Poland, resident
years in Australia, now residing at 99
Wild Street, Maroubra, N.3.W., intend
to apply for Naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948-
1952.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company, Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
B. R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS,
J. W. DUNLOP, A. H. DICKINS, O. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS. General Manager.
FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
dfg
It was Magellan who used to say “Navigate
necesse est” (it is necessary to navigate). His saying
is as true today as it was when Portuguese, Spaniards,
Dutch and Englishmen were probing the secrets of the
Austral world that lay beyond the Indies.
We must venture out and explore, discover and
achieve. Yes, here in Australia, from the cities that
have grown up in settlement in the 165 years since
the First Fleet came.
Hence I am interested in the Australian Antarctic
expeditions that have been making scientific bases
round the South Polar circle which old cartographers
marked as “incognita”—unknown.
It is well that Australia ranks among the nations
whose men have voyaged among the Antarctic shelves.
She has long had such a place, in the explorations of
Sir Ernest Shackleton and Sir Douglas Mawson, among
others.
Geographically, she is bound to take an interest in
what unfolds there, especially in times when, by
paradox, man is reaching further out into the ether,
and still doesn’t know all that should be known about
the polar limits of the earth.
And, scientifically, she is obligated to the role,
since southern Australia comes under Antarctic
influence of the weather, and more precise knowledge
of what governs the seasons is part of our business of
development.
So the men who go down to the loneliness for
months on end are playing a strong, indeed a heroic,
part for which Australia should be duly grateful.
In saying this I do not shift for a moment in my
firm conviction that it is to the North that Australia
must look in her hopes of future expansion.
Let us never forget where the frontiers stand.
And if we are in danger of forgetting, we should
consult the atlas and the population tables of the
world.
But there is balance in all things, and I, for one,
find proud significance in the fact that the flag of this
country is waving now above a whiteness on which
few men have ever trod.
It shows that the spirit of the daring wanderer,
the spirit of enterprise, enthusiasm and courage is still
alive within us.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Three Shows
A round-up of Sydney’s main
three repertory groups shows
them as all good—very good in
fact: a light and diverting pro-
gramme of one-acters at the
Mercury; a smooth and lively
performance of Shaw’s “The
Apple Cart” at the Independent;
and some remarkably fine acting
in Anouilh’s “Antigone” at the
Metropolitan.
In the Mercury’s bill, Wede-
kind’s “The Tenor” and
Chekhov’s “The Proposal” are
not really one-act plays; they
are lightly amusing little
sketches, but still sketches.
Coward’s “Fumed Oak,” how-
ever, well-worn though it is, is a
fair sample of what a one-act
play should be —complete from
beginning to end and fitting the
form perfectly; a less skilful
writer would have made three
acts of it. Leila Blake produces
the piece very neatly, and Ken
Hannam gives it the benefit of
a delightful performance as the
husband who clears out from
his missus, his snivelling
daughter and his ma-in-law.
For a play which is so full of
words and so empty of action,
there seems to be an extra-
ordinary amount of life in the
Independent’s production of
“The Apple Cart,” an effect no
doubt largely attributable to
Allan Trevor’s graceful, witty
and completely Shavian per-
formance as King Magnus ; to
Ivor Bromley’s rich and broad
portrayal of Bill Boanerges ; and
to David Butler’s Prime Minister
—like a dogged little legal eagle
trying to spear his way through
the smooth and wily tactics of
the king.
The “interlude” in “The
Apple Cart” between the king
and his mistress could well be
dispensed with; if it serves any
purpose at all it is to remind one
that Shaw knew his politics
much better than he knew
women, or mistresses; on the
other hand, Anouilh, whose
“Antigone” is at the Metro-
politan, would appear to know
his women better than his poli-
tics —or at least to express his
ideas more clearly on the former
than the latter.
“Antigone” is not a very good
play, and, although it has been
hailed as an example of
Anouilh’s mastery of tragedy, it
hardly merits the dignity of that
status at all; if anything it is a
confused essay endeavoring to
prove that Anouilh’s slightly
despairing philosophy is at one
with Greek tragedy. It doesn’t
prove that either. What it does
do, however, is provide two very
good roles—Antigone, who
wants to be executed, and Creon,
her qncle, who doesn’t want to
execute her —although even here
there are times when it seems
that Antigone is, rather than a
figure of tragedy, a spoiled and
wilful child who needs her
bottom spanked for defying on
wholly illogical grounds her
eminently sensible parent.
Still, Creon gets a very fine
portrayal from Paul Mc-
Naughton—mature, intelligent
acting that clarifies all before it
—and Antigone becomes a
remarkably vital creature in the
Jiands of Melpo Zarocosta, a
young Greek actress who seems
capable of such remarkable
flights of passion and emotion
that she can make unreasonable
things seem reasonable and who,
further, seems able to control
and project her feelings in such
a manner that there is a kind
of natural, song-like cadence
about her acting.
❖ * ❖
Kapell and Goossens
The two concertos which the
American pianist played with
the Sydney orchestra under
Goossens on Saturday night
were such as would test to the
full the technical and interpreta-
tive equipment of any pianist.
They were in mood and charac-
ter poles apart, and, in point of
time, 125 years: Rachmaninoff’s
Third : and Mozart’s 'l7th,
Rachmaninoff’s Third, his last
venture in the form, and within
nine years after his enormously
successful Second, is of greater
symphonic breadth than its pre-
decessor, and is dotted with bril-
liant little cadenzas, some of
which have a woodwind voice as
accompaniment an unusual
procedure. It is music of high
romantic content, no little pas-
sion and of flowing lyricism,
qualities which Kapell brought
out in playing that ranged from
the dynamic to the tender.
The Mozart concerto falls
beautifully for the hands and
contains music which is all sun-
shine but not heat; in it frolic
and elegance mix easily. Kapell
stepped straight back into the
18th century with complete
authority, to invest his playing
with grace and refinement. It
was intellectual playing of one
of the most intellectual examples
in the concerto literature. Again
the orchestra gave fine support.
In Brisbane Joseph Post and
the Queensland Symphony
Orchestra collaborated with
William Kapell in a per-
formance of Brahms’s First
Piano Concerto. The young
man who left us with memories
of flying fingers eight years ago
emerged now as a mature artist
who could rise to the Brahmsian
heights. When Brahms is most
meditative Kapell gives the
impression of being slightly
impatient, as though he does not
fully appreciate that the valleys
of Brahms are every bit as lovely
as the peaks are exhilarating.
But there is no mistaking the
authority of his playing.
By contrast with the Brahms,
the opening section of Hinde-
mith’s “Mathis der Maler”
seemed vague, lacking as it does
clearly defined themes and a
sense of form. Hindemith was
supposedly inspired by the Ger-
man painter Grunewald’s paint-
ing of an altarpiece in an
Alsatian cathedral, but he lacks
the necessary strain of piety for
the job. Not until the last of
the three pieces, “The Tempta-
tion of Saint Anthony,” does he
warm up, and here Mr. Post led
his players triumphantly, for it is
an effective and exciting
orchestral piece.
The “Three-cornered Hat”
Dances of de Falla, champagne
after the mineral-water of
Hindemith, were played with
gusto and rounded off a well-
balanced programme.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
Conductor Hans Schmidt-
Isserstedt combined with
violinist Alan Loveday to make
the Bartok Concerto, played at
the sixth of the 1953 subscrip-
tion concerts at the Melbourne
Town Hall, an interesting and
unexpected business, despite its
frequent arid passages. The New
Zealand fiddler searched for
every bit of feeling in the
passages that came to his bow,
and his sureness of touch and his
rich tone made islands of beauty
in the tangled mixtures of
rhythm of the final movement.
The andante tranquillo was
lovely. The Victorian Orchestra
gave a rollicking performance
of Dukas’s “The Sorcerer’s
Apprentice,” the opus that
nobody can listen to nowadays
without Walt Disney’s funny
figures coming up between him
and the music. Beethoven’s
Fourth was given a distinguished
performance.
Artbursts
Society of Artists
A first impression of the
Society of Artists’ annual exhi-
bition at the Education Depart-
ment Galleries, Sydney, is that,
although it is overcrowded with
bad and amateurish work —half
the paintings on show wouldn’t
be missed and the other half
would be better seen for it—
there remains a good deal of
healthily vigorous painting
characteristic examples of work
by Drysdale, Orban, Douglas
Dundas, George Lawrence,
Santry, Roland Wakelin, John
Passmore, Arthur Evan Read,
Charles Bush, Arthur Boyd and
others.
On closer and prolonged
inspection, however, they make
a vaguely depressing array.
They are, in the main, unlovely
paintings; there seems to be
about them a denial of beauty,
which may be deliberate or sub-
conscious, or may simply result
from the fact that beauty is lost
and, forgotten in the feverish
rush and search for style, for
humor, for drama, for any effect,
in fact, which will save one artist
from looking too like the one
beside him.
The acknowledgment of
beauty is not entirely missing
from the current exhibition,
however ; it is present in Arthur
Murch’s lyrical “Wind in the
Trees,” and to a lesser, fainter
exten„t in such as Grace Cossing-
ton Smith’s still-life and land-
scape, in Arnold Shore’s conven-
tional flowerpiece, in Douglas
Dundas’s “Snow in Kensington,”
in John Rowell’s “Old Boat-
sheds,” in Charles Meere’s “The
Old Coachyard,” and in other
paintings where the artists have
been more under the influence of
their subject and less under that
of their styles and fashions.
Talkies
“I’ll See You In My Dreams”
(Sydney Mayfair): Hollywood,
in scraping around the bottom
of the barrel for biographicals
of Tin Pan Alley notables —
most of whom appear to have
led rather humdrum lives—has
had to fall back on lyric-writers,
all the composers apparently
having been done over. Gus
Kahn is the latest, and if one
can believe the presented
f . . .. .
characterisation he was ap-
patently rather boorish
gauche, with a ton of hide. The
film, heavily mjected with cheap
sentimentality, has one bright
spot: Gus’s wife is trying to
convey to him an intimate
family secret in a nightspot
while the near-by band is bash-
ing bits out of the welkin. Just
as she raises her voice to a shout
to get above the din the band
stops, and into the silence cuts
her shrill “I said I’m pregnant!”
Danny Thomas and Doris Day
are Gus and his wife.
“South of Algiers” (Sydney
Palace): There was material
here for a good film, but poor
direction and a too-ngid ad-
herence to melodramatic for-
make has reduced it to pot-
boiler status . K - s about an Eng-
lish archaeologist who is search-
• £ or a R oman tomb in the
North African desert, wit h a
foreign rival going to absurd
i eng ths to beat him to it and
gra b a fortune. The melodrama
rU ns almost to caricature, but
there are splendid camera shots
of ancient Roman cities in the
desert of Algeria, and of spahis
charging against tribesmen. Eric
Portman as the English archse-
ologist and Marne Maitland as a
shrewd Arab servant ring the
only histrionic bells.


"Dad and Dave" In The Original
ON OUR SELECTION
The Summer Old Bob
Died
By "STEELE RUDD"
(ARTHUR H. DAVIS)
TT was a real scorcher. A soft,
1 sweltering summer’s day. The
air quivered ; the heat drove the
fowls under the dray and sent
the old dog to sleep upon the
floor inside the house. The iron
on the skillion cracked and
sweated; so did Dad and Dave
down the paddock, grubbing,
grubbing, in 130 degrees of sun-
shine. They were clearing a
piece of new land, a heavily
timbered box-tree flat. They had
been at it a fortnight, and if any
music had been in the ring of
the axe or the rattle of the pick
when they started, there was none
now.
Dad wished to be cheerful
and complacent. He said, put-
ting the pick down and dragging
his flannel off to wring it, “It’s a
good thing to sweat well.” Dave
didn’t say anything. I don’t
know what he thought, but he
looked up at Dad, just looked
up at him, while the sweat filled
his eyes and ran down over his
nose like rain off a shingle, and
then he hitched up his pants and
wired in again.
Dave was a philosopher. He
worked away until the axe flew
off the handle with a ring and a
bound, and might have been lost
in the long grass for ever only
Dad stopped it with his shin. I
fancy he didn’t mean to stop it
when I think how he jumped. It
was the only piece of excitement
there had been the whole of that
relentlessly solemn fortnight.
Dad got vexed—he was in a
hurry with the grubbing—and
said he never could get anything
done without something going
wrong. Dave wasn’t sorry the
axe came off—he knew it meant
half an hour in the shade fixing
it on again. “Anyway,” Dad
went on, “we’ll go to dinner
now.”
On the way to the house he
several times looked at the sky—
that cloudless, burning sky—and
said, to no one in particular, “I
wish to God it would rain! ” It
sounded like an aggravated
prayer. Dave didn’t speak, and
I don’t think Dad expected he
would.
Joe was the last to sit down
to dinner, and he came in steam-
ing hot. He had chased out of
sight a cow that had poked into
the cultivation. Joe mostly went
about with green bushes in his
hat, to keep his head cool, and a
few gum-leaves were now stick-
ing in his moist and matted hair.
“I put her out. Dad,” he said,
casting an eager glance at every-
thing on the table. “She tried to
jump and got stuck on the fence
and broke it all down. On’y I
couldn’t get anything, I’d ’a’
broke ’er ’ead —there wasn’t a
thing, on’y dead cornstalks and
cowdung about.” Then he
lunged his fork desperately at a
blowfly that persistently hovered
about his plate, and commenced,
Joe had a healthy appetite.
He had charged his mouth with
a load of cold meat when his
jaws ceased work, and,
his mouth as though he were
sleepy, he leant forward and
calmly returned it all to the plate.
Dad got suspicious and asked
Joe what was up, but Joe only
wiped his mouth, looked side-
ways at his plate and pushed it
away.
All of us stopped eating then,
and stared at each other.
Mother said “Well, I—l wrapped
a cloth round it so nothing could
get in, and put it in the safe. I
don’t know where on earth to
put the meat, I’m sure. If I put
it in a bag and hang it up that
thief of a dog gets it.”
“Yes,” Dad observed. “I
believe he’d stick his nose into
hell itself, Ellen, if he thought
there was a bone there —and
there ought to be lots by this
time.” Then he turned over the
remains of that cold meat, and,
considering we had all witnessed
the last kick of the slaughtered
beast, it was surprising what
animation this part of him yet
retained. In vain did Dad
explore for a really dead piece
—there was life in all of it.
Joe wasn’t satisfied. He said
he knew where there were a lot
of eggs, and disappeared down
the yard. Eggs were not plentiful
on our selection, because we too
often had to eat the hens when
there was no meat —three or four
were as many as we ever saw at
one time. So on this day, when
Joe appeared with a hatful, there
was excitement. He felt himself
a hero. We thought him a little
saviour.
“My!” said Mother. “Where
did you get all those?”
“Get ’em? I've had these
planted for three munce —they’re
a nest I found long ago. I
thought I wouldn’t say anything
till we really wanted ’em.”
Ju§t then one of the eggs fell
out of the hat and went off pop
on the floor.
Dave nearly upset the table,
he rose so suddenly, and, cover-
ing his nose with one hand, he
made for the door. Then he
scowled back over his shoulder
at Joe. He utterly scorned his
brother Joe. All of us deserted
the table except Dad —he stuck
to his place manfully. It took
a lot to shift him.
Joe must have had a fine
nerve. “That’s on'y one bad
’n’,” he said, taking the rest to
the fireplace where the kettle
stood. Then Dad, who had
remained calm and majestic,
broke out. “Damn y’, boy!” he
yelled. “Take th’ awful things
outside —you tinker!” Joe took
them out and tried them all, but
I forget if he found a good one.
Dad peered into the almost
empty water-cask and again
muttered a short prayer for rain.
He decided to do no more grub-
bing that day, but to run wire
around the new land instead.
The posts had been in the ground
some time, and had been bored.
Dave and Sarah bored them.
Sarah was as good as any man,
so Dad reckoned. She could
turn her hand to anything, from
sewing a . shirt to sinking a post-
hole. She could give Dave
inches in arm-measurements, and
talk about a leg! She had a
beauty! It was as thick
at the ankle as Dad’s was at the
thigh, nearly.
Anyone who wants to know
what real amusement is should
try wiring posts. What was to
have been the top wire (the
number-eight stuff) Dad com-
menced to put in the bottom
holes, and we ran it through
some twelve or fifteen posts
before he saw the mistake. Then
we dragged it out slowly and
savagely. Dad swearing ade-
quately all the time. ,
At last everything went
splendidly. We dragged the wire
through panel after panel, and
at intervals Dad would examine
the blistering sky for signs of
rain. Once when he looked up a
red bullock was reaching for his
waistcoat, which hung on a
branch of a low tree. Dad sang
out. The bullock poked out his
tongue and reached higher. Then
Dad told Joe to run. Joe ran —
so did the bullock, but faster,
and with the waistcoat that once
was a part of Mother’s shawl
half-way down his throat. Had
the shreds and ribbons that''
dangled from it been a little
longer, he might have trodden
on them and pulled it back, but
he didn’t. Joe deemed it his duty
to follow that red bullock till it
dropped the waistcoat, so he
hammered along full split
behind. Dad and Dave stood
watching until pursued and
pursuer vanished down the gully.
Then Dad said something about
Joe being a fool, and they pulled
at the wire again. They were
nearing a corner-post, and Dad
was hauling the wire through the
last panel, when there came the
devil’s own noise of galloping
hoofs. Fifty or more cattle came
careering along straight for the
fence, bellowing and kicking up
their heels in the air, as cattle
do sometimes after a shower of
rain. Joe was behind them—
considerably—still at full speed
and yelping like a dog, Joe loved
excitement.
For weeks thfose cattle had
been accustomed to go in and
out between the posts, and they
didn’t seem to have any thoughts
of wire as they bounded along.
Dave stood with gaping mouth.
Dad groaned, and the wire-ends
he was holding in his hand flew
up with a whiz and took a scrap
of his ear away. The cattle got
mixed up in the wires. Some
toppled over, some were caught
by the legs, some by the horns.
They dragged the wire twenty
and thirty yards away, twisted
it round logs and left a lot of the
posts pointing to sunset.
Oh, Dad’s language then! He
swung his arms about and
foamed at the mouth. Dave
edged away from him. Joe came
up waving triumphantly a
chewed piece of the waistcoat.
“D-d-did it g-give them a buster.
Dad?” he said, the sweat run-
ning over his face as though a
spring had broken out on top of
his head. Dad jumped a log and
tried to unbuckle his strap and
reach for Joe at the same time,
but Joe fled.
That threw a painful pall over
everything. Dad declared he
was sick and tired of the whole
thing, and wouldn’t do another
hand’s turn. Dave mediated and
walked along the fence, plucking
off scraps of skin and hair that
here and there clung to the bent
and battered wire.
We had just finished supper
when old Bob Wren, a bachelor,
who farmed about two miles
from us, arrived. He used to
come over every mail-night and
bring his newspaper with him.
“Dad and Dave sprang out in their shirts to let him in.”
Bob couldn’t read a word, so he
always got Dad to spell over the
paper to him. We didn’t take a
newspaper.,
Bob said there were clouds
gathering behind Flat Top when
he came in, and Dad went out
and looked, and for the fiftieth
time that day prayed in his own
way for rain. Then he took the
paper and we gathered at the
table to listen. “Hello,” he com-
menced, “this is McDoolan’s
paper you’ve got. Bob.”
Bob rather thought it wasn’t.
“Yes, yes, man, it is,” Dad
put in. “See, it’s addressed to
him.”
Bob leaned over and looked
at the address and said “No, no,
that’s mine ; it always comes like
that.” Dad laughed. We all
laughed. He opened it, anyway, '
He hadn’t read for five minutes
when the light flickered nearly
out. Sarah reckoned the oil was
about done, and poured water in
the lamp to raise the kerosene
to the wick, but that didn’t last
long, and, as there was no fat
in the house, Dad squatted on
the floor and read by the fire-
light.
He plodded through the paper
tediously from end to end, read-
ing the murders and robberies a
second time. The clouds that old
Bob said were gathering when
he came in were now developing
to a storm, for the wind began
to rise, and the giant ironbark-
tree that grew close behind the
house swayed and creaked
weirdly, and threw out those
strange sobs and moans that on
wild nights bring terror to the
hearts of bush children. A
glimmer of lightning appeared
through the cracks in the slabs.
Old Bob said he would go before
it came on and started into the
inky darkness.
“It’s coming!” Dad said, as
he shut the door and put the peg
in after seeing old Bob out. And
it came —in no time. A fierce
wind struck the house. Then a
vivid flash of lightning lit up
every crack and hole, and a clap
of thunder followed that nearly
shook the place down.
Dad ran to the back-door and
put his shoulder against it, Dave
stood to the front one, and
Sarah sat on the sofa with her
arms around Mother, telling her
not to be afraid. The wind blew
furiously; its one aim seemed
the shifting of the house. Gust
after gust struck the walls and
left them quivering. The
children screamed. Dad called
and shouted, but no one could
catch a word he said. Then there
was one tremendous crack. We
understood it —the ironbark-tree
had gone over. At last the
shingled roof commenced to
give. Several times the ends rose
(and our hair, too) and fell back
into place again with a clap.
Then it went clean away in one
piece, with a rip like a tearing
ribbon, and there we stood,
affrighted and shelterless, inside
the walls. Then the wind went
down and it rained —rained on
us all night.
Next morning Joe had been to
the new fence for the axe for
Dad, and was off again as fast as
he could run, when he remem-
bered something and called out
“Dad, old B-B-Bob’s just oyer
there, lyin’ down in the gully.”
Dad started up. “It’s ’im all
right I w-w-wouldn’t ’a’
noticed, only Prince s-s-smelt
him.”
“Quick and show me where!”
Dad said.
Joe showed him.
“My God!” and Dad stood
and stared. Old Bob it was —
dead. Dead as Moses.
“Poor old Bob!” Dad said.
“Poor —old —fejlow! ” Joe asked
what could have killed him.
“Poor —old —Bob! ”
Dave brought the dray and we
took him to the house, or what
remained of it.
Dad couldn’t make out the
cause of death; perhaps it was
lightning. He held a post-
mortem, and, after thinking hard
for a long while, told Mother he
was certain, anyway, that old
Bob would never get up again.
It was a change to have a dead
(i Continued on page 31)


dfg
Aswbh am
and m-vm!
m N€W
HARGANS
W
Timber Chief
h
THE GREATEST ALL-ROUND MOBILE
POWER SAW EVER PRODUCED
Bargains—proved leader in the Mobile Power Saw field
for over seven years —-now incorporates a completely
redesigned chassis, giving it a greater work capacity than
ever before!
Larger wheels, adjustable height mechanism and fold-up
vee leg allow the machine to straddle 24 in. logs. Simple,
speedy wing-nut adjustments put handles at a convenient
height for any operator and give horizontal cuts within
12 ins. of the ground or vertical branch cuts 5 ft. up. Any
timber-worker will quickly appreciate these new superior
advantages of the Hargans “Timber Chief.”
Yes, all these and Hargans’ other outstanding features,
too! The new Hargans “Timber Chief” retains the same
patent gimbal ring mounting that keeps Hargans ahead
of all competitors and the 10 b.h.p. engine that boosts
performance and leaves other saws standing.
EASY RIPPING
See how the rangy Hargans “Timber Chief” chassis strides this 24
Stringy Bark billet, giving the operator full view of his work and
enabling him to continue cutting in one direction, ripping the
whole length of the log. You’ll find the Hargans Timber Chief
chassis easy and simple to adjust. Wing-nuts on wheel quadrants
give height variation through a range from 12" to 24 on the
ground!
Features that make the
Hargans “Timber Chief” master of them all
AND AT NO INCREASE IN PRICE!
I Patent gimbal ring mounting enab-
ling the Hargans "Timber Chief saw to
be swung straight into the timber while
the wheels and frame remain stationary.
Belts never cross.
I World-famous B.S.A. air-cooled 4-cycle
engine developing 10 b.h.p. at full
throttle. Ball and roller bearings on
crank-pin and crankshaft.
B Revolutionary chassis-elevating device,
giving quick chassis adjustment from 12'
to 24" off the ground.
B Top of saw blade turns away from the
operator, therefore should Hargans stall
in the cut it will pull away and not to-
wards the operator . . . an important
safety factor.
D 21" pneumatic disk wheels giving
greater manoeuvrability.
9 Sturdy vee leg and rack with wider
range of adjustment folds up to give full
clearance when ripping or driving over
obstacles.
■ Vee-belts, actually 40% overpowered
for longer life, cushion even the harshest
stall.
B Handy labour-saving self-drive, giving
powered transport over almost any ter-
rain. (Extra at reasonable cost.)
WALK IT AWAY
Thanks to Morgans' handy positive self-drive (optional
extra), after only two simple adjustments you can
squeeze the handle grips and the simple, powerful
Morgans self-drive comes into play to propel the
"Timber Chief" at normal walking speed, anywhere
you wish.
Note auxiliary blade position keeping blade stationary
far safetv while unit is in transport.
★ HARGANS OWNERS Convert your present
Hargans to a world-beating “Timber Chief.” For a very
reasonable charge you, too, can get the new “Timber Chief”
benefits with the option of handy, labour-saving self-drive.
*
Australasian Distributors:
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
Head Office: Malloch House, 10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
Branch Office: 500 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Agents throughout all States.
• •••MAIL TO-DAY***
Please send me without obligation:
■ Details regarding | |
conversion of my
present Hargans to
a "Timber Chief."
NAME
9 Full details of [ |
the Hargans
"Timber Chief"
(complete unit).
ADDRESS.


Elements of an Industry . . .
No. 21 of a Series
n
m
CERIUM is one of the group of elements known as the
“rare earth” metals, which are very similar to each other in chemical
properties. The first steps in the discovery of this element were
taken in 1751 when a 15 year old Swedish boy Wilhelm Hisinger
sent a sample of rock to the famous chemist Scheele. Hisinger
thought that this rock, now known as the mineral “cerite”, might
contain a new metal; but Scheele failed to find it. More than twenty
years later Hisinger himself discovered in cerite the new element
cerium." Today the most important sources of the rare earth metals
are deposits of monazite sand found in India and Brazil. Pure
cerium is rarely produced, but in the form of “Mischmetall”—a
mixture of rare earth metals—and in compounds with other elements
it has a number of industrial uses. The luminosity of an electric
arc light is increased if the carbon electrodes are impregnated with
cerium fluoride during manufacture, and ceric sulphate is used in
chemical analysis and in photography.
Mischmetall is used extensively to make lighter flints and in Great
Britain LC.I. produces many millions every year for use in gas and
cigarette lighters.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
df
L.45C.3172
KEEP IT BRIEF
BY NANCY CATO
THE twin glass doors of the
“Evening Standard” office
were pushed open so
impetuously that they con-
tinued to swing for some time,
sending flashes of sunlight like
heliograph messages across the
street. A young girl with red
hair and neat ankles disappeared
up the marble staircase, following
its twists and turns to the right
until she came to another door
marked “Literary Department.”
“ ’Morning, Freddo,” she
called cheerfully to the small,
plump man who sat as guardian
of the doors and who ruled, with
an iron hand, the bevy of office-
boys lined up in the “dog-box”
awaiting errands. He ignored
her with a dignified stare into
space. He did not like junior
members of the staff to call him
Freddo, which was short for
Freddo the Frog and referred to
his rather bulging eyes. But a
couple of boys, impressed by the
neat ankles and a new and be-
coming hat, chorused a “ ’Morn-
ing, Miss Crompton,” and fol-
lowed her with their eyes round
the comer of the corridor.
Molly Crompton pulled off the
hat as she walked, fluffed out
her curly red hair, stuffed the hat
inside the coat of her suit and
pulled a copy of the rival paper,
the “Register,” from under her
arm.
Then, abruptly slowing her
hurried movement to a casual
stroll, she opened the paper and
sauntered into the reporters’-
room, apparently absorbed in
reading. She was late, as usual,
but managed to give the impres-
sion that she had been in the
office for at least an hour.
“Naughty girl, sale’s late
again,” said Howard Miller
paternally. She sat down in the
desk in front of his, and still with
her eyes fixed on the paper
pulled the rather crushed hat
from inside her jacket and hung
it on the back of her chair. A
young, fair office-boy was
already standing in front of her.
“Chief wants to see you. Miss
Crompton.”
HER heart jumped a bit. How
often had he sent for her?
And she hadn’t read more than
about two paragraphs of today’s
paper. She hastily grabbed a fold
of copy-paper and a pencil and
threaded her way among the
desks to the glass-enclosed
sanctum of the Chief-of-Staff.
He was busy finishing an assign-
ment for someone else ; then one
of the phones on his desk rang.
He looked vaguely up at her
from under his brows as he
answered “Yes —yairs, that’s
right. Yairs.”
Anything less like the Holly-
wood eye-shaded city-desk editor
it would be hard to imagine,
thought Molly. He had dark
curly hair falling over a bumpy
forehead, a dimpled chin, a slow
voice and rather vague grey eyes.
They were nice eyes, she thought.
She lived in hope that one day
he would look at her—really
look, with appreciation instead
of vagueness.
“Ah, Molly,” he said, slowly
putting the receiver back on its
stand. He seemed to be wonder-
ing why he had sent for her.
“Er—l suppose you saw that par.
in the ‘Register’ this morning
about the chimpanzees at the zoo
having a domestic tiff.”
Molly made a noncommittal
noise. He groped for a cigarette
smouldering in the ashtray, his
eyes still on the paper spread
before him. “Should be a
follow-up there. Pictures, too ;
you’d better take John Dickson
along with you. See if Sarah’s
off her food, what damage she
did to her old man —light stuff,
with plenty of human interest.”
Molly smiled. “Human
interest?”
“Eh? Yes, you know the sort
of thing. And meet the east-west
express and ring the hotels for
personals. Anything doing on
your round?”
“Not unless someone’s robbed
the art-gallery or murdered the
Commissioner of Railways.”
“Well, if there’s nothing much
doing you can help the social
editress this afternoon. This
morning there’s a meeting of the
Boy Scouts’ Association being
opened by the Governor at
eleven-thirty—you’d better cover
that. Oh, and Molly!” He
called her back as she was going
out. “Keep it brief. Space is
tight as hell.”
She went back to her desk,
chanting: “How I hate the
zoo! How I hate the zoo! How
I hate the zoo! ”
“Are you swearing?” asked
Howard,
“Yes. How’d you guess?”
“By the look on your face.
And your eyes have turned
black.”
“They’re always black.”
“No, they’re not. They’re a
sort of golden color when you’re
in a sunny mood.”
“My mood is positively Arctic
this morning. The love-life of
the chimpanzee!”
“What?”
OUT she was talking into the
telephone on her desk, tak-
ing down mechanically: Mr.
Gordon H. Pratt, manager of
Fast-Fix Slide Fasteners, Ltd.,
arrived by plane from the eastern
States this morning, and is stay-
ing at the Hotel Splendide . . .
A slim girl, pale and ethereal,
with short, smooth fair hair and
large blue eyes, that were decep-
tively tragic-looking with their
natural shadows, came out of the
Chief’s room. She waved to
Molly, “ ’Day, Stan. Owdyas-
pennanooyear?”
Molly waved back and covered
the mouthpiece with her hand,
“NoddoobadStan! ” she re-
plied, and “Seeyerlater,” but the
fair girl was gone.
Molly searched for the item
about the mismated chimpanzees.
She cut it out of the files with a
razor-blade, stuffed a wad of
copy-paper and a chewed pencil
into her handbag, and dragged
on her hat. But before going out
she sat down again and typed out
the item about the slide-fastener
man and another about a
traveller in ladies’ corsets. Then
she took a clean envelope and
typed:
Miss Roma Richardson:
House.
Inside she put a slip saying:
Memo Miss Richardson . Miss
Crompton will be lunching at
1.30 p.m. approximately, chim-
panzees permitting.
On the way out she gave this
and the two personal items to
an office-boy to deliver. The
photographer was waiting for
her with his bulky camera swing-
ing from one shoulder by its
strap; he looked morose, for he
didn’t like the zoo either. But
when he got there the artist in
him was aroused, and he decided
to take the flamingoes reflected
ifi their pool as well as the
chimpanzees.
Sam, the wife-beating chimp.,
was sulky and refused to come
out into the light for a long
time, and with this and waiting
for reflections it was after eleven
when they got back to the office.
Molly banged out her zoo story,
rang several places on her round
to see if any news had broken,
and then hurried out to the Boy
Scouts’ meeting.
As she was going up the steps
of the hall she met someone she
knew, a representative of the
morning paper, which was also
the only other paper in this small
city, and in theory a deadly rival
of the “Evening Standard.”
“Ah, I hoped it would be
you,” said the large, saintly-
looking person with silver hair
known as “The Bish.” (“Because
of my alleged episcopalian
appearance,” he would explain.)
“Fact is, I couldn’t stay for the
Governor’s speech. I’ve got a
special article to finish for an
early page that should’ve been
done last week, and God knows
how many other jobs. Dear
girl, be a sport and cover it for
me, will you? He won’t say
anything startling—never does.”
“All right, Bish. But one day
you’ll be found out.”
He twinkled at her through his
silver-rimmed glasses and
toddled down the steps.
CHE came as unobtrusively as
possible through the doors
at the back of the hall, but an
officious khaki-clad male who
knew her by sight hurried her
up to the Press-table at the front.
TTie Governor, who was in the
middle of well-polished perora-
tion, paused and frowned
slightly. First one Press repre-
sentative had walked out before
his speech was begun; and now
another was arriving when it was
half over. Besides, it was insult-
ing to have young girls sent to
report one’s words.
“Ah-hem!” he said signifi-
cantly. “Er the undoubted
benefit to the boys of the com-
munity, who will be the—ah—
soldiers of the future,”
He smoothed back his heavy
military moustache, first on one
side, then the other. His face
was red and earnest. Molly
folded a wad of copy-paper and
waited hopelessly for him to say
something interesting. Still, she
should really make sure what he
had said before she came in;
one never knew.
When he had sat down amid a
round of applause, she tiptoed to
the Governor’s secretary, sitting
at the end of the front row in
the audience. “Mr. Wilton, I
have to get back to my paper to
catch the edition, before the
meeting is over. Do you think
you could ask his Excellency for
the text of his speech? I missed
the first part.”
The secretary was not an
obliging man; he disliked
reporters, but realised that they
were necessary evils.
“All right; I’ll see,” he mut-
tered ungraciously.
She went through the copy of
the treasurer’s report on the
table, trying for the hundredth
time tg see what made a balance-
sheet balance, and listened to the
annual report without interest.
During the round of clapping
after this was read, Mr. Wilton
approached the Governor at the
edge of the low platform.
Watching, she saw his Excel-
lency’s red face turn a shade
redder, while he whispered a
violent remark.
The secretary came back and
bent to murmur in her ear “He
won’t give it to you.”
“Why not? What did he
say?”
“He said ...” Mr. Wilton
paused, looking like a malicious
cherub with his round pink
cheeks and blue eyes. “He said
‘Tell that red-headed imp she
ought to get hero on time.’ ”
“Oh! ” —Molly gasped and
went pink. “And you tell him
that my hair isn’t this color for
nothing! He’ll see.”
She gathered up her papers
and marched out, meditating
revenge.
T>ACK at the office, she
attacked the cowering type-
writer savagely. She then read
through what she had written,
and with black smouldering eyes
and smiling lips took the copy
down the corridor to the sub-
editors’ room.
Every head was bent over the
big table. The chief sub. was
grimly martyring some rejected
copy on an iron spike; the tele-
printer ticked away to itself in
the corner. The cable-editor sat
like a thin spider among his webs
of white tape. No one took any
notice as she dropped her story
into the wire-basket.
On her table she found a note
saying:
Memo Miss Crompton. The
editress of the women’s maga-
zine will not be lunching out
but intends consuming a pie in
her room.
Molly sent out an order for
a cheese-and-gherkin roll and an
apple-square, but she was not
surprised, on looking into the
greasy packet delivered by an
aloof boy, to find a beef-roll
and a repulsive cake with
doubtful-looking cream inside.
She picked up the bag distaste-
fully and went down the
corridor, past the subs.’ room
and into another corridor by
way of the composing-room.
The linotype machines were
clicking and tapping, feeling
with their long sentient arms for
the little letters, unerringly pick-
ing up the right one every time.
They looked like strange mon-
sters in the eerie blue light from
the neon tubes.
She went up the corridor to
an inner room where an electric
light perpetually burnt. There
the fair Roma reclined in a
(i Continued on page 42)


w,
L
ATLANTIC
-FLASH-
STOP-WEAR
frrfff
SERVICE
THIS S kil
[rr?l
GALLONS
EaD
<6
MUMS*
%
fd «
i
91
V
A■t H *
N ■ ft B M
T 1 7 I »
ft T
©
5.,/ I c
E)
0-0/ * I / S Vs
-?~k/ ivr-i I T fc-
-s=>J«/1 EM?
\
H
ts?
4 Mii(
m
OK
?to
°ll.
Turn lo the Team
you can Trust I
Here’s the eager team that brings you Happy Motoring . . .
There’s your Atlantic Solo Station operator, friendly, depend-
able; there’s the Atlantic Stopwear Service, for longer
engine-life; Atlantic Flash, for surging power; Esso Paradyne
for extra pep; and Atlantic Motor Oil for a cool, smooth
motor. Be wise take the full Atlantic treatment, and
NdT
o
55.53/3
STOP AT
ATLANTIC
THIS SIGN
FOR
Tun
Happy /flefaimq
ATLANTIC UNION OIL COMPANY LIMITED
man about the place, and we
were very pleased to be first to
tell anyone who didn’t know the
news about old Bob.
We planted him on his own
selection beneath a gum-tree,
where for years and years a
family of jackasses had nightly
roosted, Dad remarking “As
there might be a chance of his
bearin’, it’ll be company for the
poor old cove.”
When Dan Came Home
f)NE night after the threshing.
Dad lying on the sofa, think-
ing, the rest of us sitting at the
table. Dad spoke to Joe.
“How much,” he said, “is
seven-hundred bushels of wheat
at six shillings?”
Joe, who was looked upon as
the brainy one of our family,
took down his slate with a hint
of scholarly ostentation.
“What did y’ say. Dad—seven-
’undred bags ?”
“Bushels! Bushels !”
“Seven-’un—dered bush—els
of wheat. Wheat, was it. Dad?”
“Yes, wheat!”
“Wheat at.., At what,
Dad?”
“Six shillings a bushel.”
“Six shil —lings a .., A,
Dad? We’ve not done any at a;
she’s on’y showed us per!”
“Per bushel, then!”
“Per bush—el. That’s seven-
’undred bushels of wheat at six
shillin’s per bushel. An’ y’ wants
ter know. Dad?”
“How much it’ll be, of
course.”
“In money. Dad, or—er?”
“Dammit, yes. Money!”
Dad raised his voice.
For a while, Joe thought hard,
then set to work figuring and
rubbing out, figuring and rub-
bing out. The rest of us eyed
him, envious of his learning.
Joe finished the sum.
“Well?” from Dad.
Joe cleared his throat. We
listened.
“Nine-thousan’ poun’.”
Dave laughed loud. Dad said
“Pshaw!”—and turned his face
to the wall. Joe looked at the
slate again.
“Oh! I see,” he said. “I didn’t
divide by twelve t’ bring t’
pounds,” and laughed himself.
More figuring and rubbing
out.
Finally Joe, in loud, decisive
tones, announced “Four-
thousand, no ’undred an’ twenty
poun’, fourteen shillin’s
an’ ”
“Bah! You blockhead! ”
Dad blurted out and jumped off
the sofa and went to bed.
We all turned in.
We were not in bed long when
the dog barked and a horse
entered the yard. There was a
clink of girth-buckles; a saddle
was thrown down; then a
thump, as though with a lump
of blue-metal, set the dog yelp-
ing lustily. We lay listening till
a voice called out at the door,
“All in bed?” Then we knew
it was Dan, and Dad and Dave
sprang out in their shirts to let
him in. All gf us jumped up to
see Dan. This time he had been
away a long while, and when the
slush-lamp was lit and fairly
going, how we stared and
wondered at his altered looks!
He had grown a long whisker,
and must have stood inches
higher than Dad.
Dad was delighted. He put a
fire on, made tea and he and
Dan talked till near daybreak.
Dad of the harvest, and the
Government dam that was
promised, and the splendid grass
growing in the paddocks, Dan
of the great dry plains, and the
shearing-sheds outback and the
chaps he had met there. And he
related in a way that made Dad’s
eyes glisten and Joe’s mouth
open, how, with a knocked-up
wrist, he shore beside Proctor
and big Andy Purcell, at Well-
town, and rung the shed by half
a sheep.
Dad ardently admired Dan.
Dan was only going to stay a
short while at home, he said,
then was off west again. Dad
tried to persuade him to change
his mind; he would have him
remain and help to work the
selection. But Dan only shook
his head and laughed.
Dan accompanied Dad to the
plough every morning, and
walked cheerfully up and down
the furrows all day, talking to
him. Sometimes he took a turn
at the plough and Dad did the
talking. Dad just loved Dan’s
company.
A few days went by. Dan still
accom P an i ed Dad to the plough,
but didn’t walk up and down
with him. He selected a shade
close by, and talked to Dad from
there as he passed on his rounds,
Sometimes Dan used to forget to
talk at all—he would be asleep—
and Dad would wonder if he was
unwell. Once he advised him
to go up to the house and have a
good camp. Dan went. He
stretched himself on the sofa,
and smoked and spat on the
floor and played the concertina
—an old one he won in a raffle,
Dan didn’t go near the plough
any more. He stayed inside
every day, and drank the yeast
and provided music for the
women. Sometimes he would
leave the sofa, and go to the
back-door and look out, and
watch Dad tearing up and down
the paddock after the plough,
Then he’d yawn, and wonder
aloud what the diggins it was
the old man saw in a game like
that on a hot day and return to
the sofa, tired. But every even-
i ng when Dad knocked off and
brought the horses to the barn
Dan went out and watched him
unharnessing them.
A month passed. Dad wasn’t
so fond of Dan now, and Dan
never talked of going away,
One day Anderson’s cows
wandered into our yard and sur-
rounded the haystack. Dad saw
them from the paddock and
cooeed, and shouted for those at
the house to drive them away.
They didn’t hear him. Dad left
the plough and ran up and pelted
Anderson’s cows with stones and
glass bottles, and pursued them
with a pitchfork till, in a mad
rush to get out, half the brutes
fell over the fence and made
havoc with the wire. Dad spent
an hour mending it, then went
to the veranda and savagely
asked Mother if she had lost
her ears. Mother said she hadn’t.
“Then why the devil couldn’t y’
hear me singin’ out?” Mother
thought it must have been
because Dan was playing the
concertina. “Oh, damn his con-
certina!” Dad squealed, and
kicked Joe’s little kitten, which
was rubbing itself fondly against
his leg, clean through the house.
Dan found the selection pretty
slow—so he told Mother —and
thought he would knock about a
bit. He went to the store and
bought a supply of*ammunition,
which he booked to Dad and
started shooting. He stood at
the door and put twenty bullets
into the bam, then he shot two
bears near the stockyard with
twenty more bullets, and dragged
both bears down to the house
and left them at the back-door.
They stayed at the back-door
until they went very bad ; then
Dad hooked himself to them and
dragged them down the gully.
Somehow, Dad began to hate
Dan. He scarcely ever spoke to
him now, and at meal-times
never spoke to any of us. Dad
was a hard man to understand.
We couldn’t understand him.
“And with Dan at home, too!”
Sal used to whine. Sal verily
idolised Dan. Hero-worship was
strong in Sal.
One night Dad came in for
supper rather later than usual.
He’d had a hard day and was
done up. To make matters
worse, when he was taking the
collar off Captain the brute
tramped heavily on his toe and
took the nail off. Supper wasn’t
ready. The dining-room was
engaged. Dan was showing Sal
how the Prince of Wales
schottische was danced in the
huts outback. For music, Sal
was humming, and the two were
flying about the room. Dad
stood at the door and looked on
with blood in his eye.
“Look here,” he thundered
suddenly, interrupting Dan, “I’ve
had enough of you!” The
couple stopped, astonished, and
Sal cried “Dad!” But Dad was
hot. “Out of this! ” —placing his
hand on Dan and shoving him.
“You’ve loafed long enough on
me! Off y’ go t’ the devil!”
Dan went over to Anderson’s,
and Anderson took him in and
kept him a week. Then Dan
took Anderson down at a new
game of cards and went away
west again.
(To be continued next week)


WRIT! MG
Aptitude Tests
ms i
gf
tiniM
To foster ond develop LITERARY TALENT, and for
the noble purpose of keeping alive the Flame of
Creativeness which burns in so many Australian
breasts, the AUSTRALIAN WRITERS AND ARTISTS'
FEDERATION has made it possible for a panel of
leading professional writers to give you these
scientifically prepared Tests and expert Criticism
ABSOLUTELY FREE OF CHARGE and without
obligation.
i .
Send for the elaborate Literature—Writing Ability
Tests it will lead to a wonderful opportunity to
obtain an impartial and instructive Analysis of your
chance of success in Story-writing, Journalism, Radio
Script. If these Tests, sponsored by the A.W.A.F.,
reveal that you hove the necessary ability to become
a Writer, you will receive an invitation to take the
Correspondence training of the A.S.J. The decision to
accept or decline rests of course entirely with your-
self. Whether you accept or not you will find
this genuinely frank, sympathetic and constructive
criticism most helpful—a thing that money can't buy.
AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL OF JOURNALISM
50 Hotham Street, Melbourne, C. 2.
Please send me your Writing Aptitude Tests, also latest
A.W.A.F. £2OOO Prize List, both without cost and without
obligation.
Name.
Address.
B. 2/9/’53.
State
■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■a
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JEAN GLORIA PINNER late of
Newtown. —TAKE NOTICE that JOHN
PINNER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 492 of 1953 on the grounds of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 9th day of
November 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from HAD-
DOCKS COHEN & MAGUIRE, Solicitors,
38 Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS WALTER BOWIE late of
Melbourne, Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE
that MAVIS MARGRETT KATHLEEN
BOWIE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2995 of 1953 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause .or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 9th
day of November 1958 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
HADDOCKS COHEN & MAGUIRE,
Solicitors, 38 Martin Place, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALFRED MULLANE late of 82
Upper Pitt Street Kirribilli.—TAKE
NOTICE that MOUEL LOUISE MUL-
LANE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 105 of 1953 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause' or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 30th October
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from BASIL JOHN
MACREE, Solicitor, 129 Phillip Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
TO ALBERT JOHN CURRAN formerly
of Sydney, New South Wales; Brisbane,
Queensland; Middle Brighton, Victoria;
and Darwin, Northern Territory; but
now of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife DOROTHY GERTRUDE
CURRAN has instituted proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of the
State of Victoria in its Divorce and
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction for a
dissolution of her marriage to you on the
ground of desertion AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that unless you enter an
appearance in the Office of the Protho-
notary of the Supreme Court of Victoria
on or before the Ist day of October 1953
and file an Answer thereto on or before
the 11th day of October 1953 the case
may proceed in your absence.
LLOYD P. GOODE, LL.B., of 475
Bourke Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for
the abovenamed Petitioner.
■
■
,
Wm
■
m
■
m
mm
mm
mm.
■
"THE GLADYS MONCRIEFF SHOW"
People all over Australia are applauding the sincerity, the warmth, the
real friendliness of the outstanding radio feature that’s as big as the heart
of its beloved star —“The Gladys Moncrieff Show.’’ And each week
Gladys sings more of the songs you remember, laughs with “Luigi,” and
encourages promising young artists in the most heart-warming half-hour
on the air.
Presented by the makers of President Refrigerators.
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
The
Tm)
H
2 HR, 2 MW, 2LF, 2PK, 2 MG, 2WL, 2LT,
2CA, 3CV, 4 GY, 6WB, 6MD, 6BY, 7LA
Seme
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copies of How Singapore
Fell by H. G. Bennett and Nemesis
by John Gunther.—ss7o.
To buy copy of Australian novel
The Wind on the Water by Myra
Morris.—5569.
Words of verse “That Day at Boil-
ing Downs” by Jack Mathieu.—5568.
To buy copy of Union Line, a his-
tory of the Union S.S. Co. of N.Z.,
by S. D. Waters.—5564.
To buy copy of On Our Selection
by Steele Rudd.—ss67.
Copy of printed directions for the
making of a box-kite.—-5566.
To buy copy of book on Captain
James Cook suitable for boys of
school age,—5565.
Information Sought
A few details about the Society
Islands ?
The Society Islands is an archi-
pelago in the South Pacific Ocean
under French protection. The islands
are divided into two groups. The
Leeward Islands were annexed in
1885, and the largest are Huahine,
Raiat6a, Tahaa and Boro-Bora-
Maupiti. The Windward Islands were
annexed in 1880, and include Tahiti
and Moorea. The climate is delightful
and the soil fertile. Bananas, sugar,
copra and phosphates are produced.
A scientific expedition sent to Tahiti
to observe the transit of Venus in
1769 by the Royal Society of London
was conveyed in H.M.S. Endeavour
under the command of James Cook,
then a naval lieutenant. Cook named
a part of the group of islands in
honor of the Royal Society.
♦ * * *
Do earthworms in the soil assist
plant-growth ? In what way ?
Yes. Earthworms, which live in
burrows usually only a foot or two
below the surface, must have wet
soil to flourish. Decomposed leaves
are their chief diet, and their drop-
pings, piled-up at the mouth of the
burrows, are a valuable source of
humus (or leaf-mould); the earth-
worm thus renders the soil-con-
stituents into, for plants, a more
digestible form. The earthworm-
burrows, too, loosen the soil and
allow air to penetrate; fine, mellow
soil is largely the result of their
castings. This soil-loosening assists
root-growth; in a flowerpot, however,
roots are sometimes damaged by
earthworms.
* * * *
Method of splitting logs for fencing
posts with blasting-powder?
The method of splitting posts with
blasting-powder is by means of a
timber-splitting gun, which consists
of a heavy steel bar about 2ft.
long by 2in. diameter, tapered at
one end. The bar has a hollow
drilled in it for about half its length,
and a small hole is drilled from the
outside of the bar into the hollow,
for a touch hole. In operation the
gun is charged with black powder
(approximately 2oz. powder being
used) wadded with paper and driven
into the end of the log with a sledge-
hammer. A length of fuse is placed
in the touch hole and then lit. No
detonator is required. To prevent
loss of the gun. after the charge has
been fired, it is a good plan to wire
the gun to a limb or some other piece
of timber. One such gun on the
market is known as the “Esidrive”
timber-splitting gun. The distributors
of this gun are Farm Tools Supply,
228 Coogee Bay-road, Coogee
(N.S.W.).
* * * *
Names of dramatists of the Restora-
tion period ( 1660-circa 1700}?
William Congreve (1670-1729) is
probably the greatest of the Restora-
tion dramatists. His “The Way of
the World” was described by Swin-
burne as “the unequalled and un-
approached masterpiece of English
comedy.” His other plays included
“Love for Love,” “An Old Bachelor”
and “A Mourning Bride.” William
Wycherley (1640-1715), who was for
many years in high favor at Court,
wrote, among others, the witty
comedies “The Country Wife,” “A
Plain Dealer” and “Love in a Wood,”
all of which are excellent in
characterisation. Other Restoration
dramatists were John Vanbrugh (the
architect of Blenheim Palace), George
Etheridge, Otway and Lee. Dryden
also can be included, but he was far
more than a dramatist.
$ * * *
What is meant by the phrase “In
a Pickwickian sense”?
It is applied to uncomplimentary
language which in the circumstances
is not to be interpreted in its strictly
literal meaning; from the scene in
chapter one of Pickwick Papers, where
the chairman calls upon Mr. Blotton
to say whether he had used the word
“humbug” of Mr. Pickwick in a com-
mon sense. Mr. Blotton “had no
hesitation in saying that he had not
—he had used the word in its Pick-
wickian sense.”
* * * *
Who were the Whigs and from
where is the word derived?
The word, probably shortened from
“Whiggamore,” one who urges on a
mare, was originally applied to the
Covenanters in the west of Scotland
who in 1648 wrested the government
from the Royalist party and marched
as rebels to Edinburgh, and in later
years to the extreme section of the
Covenanting party. About 1679 it
was applied to the Exclusionists, who
opposed the succession of James II
to the Crown. Hence from 1689 it
came to be used for an adherent of
one of the two great political parties
in England. Since the middle of the
19th century the term has been mostly
superseded by “Liberal,” but is occa-
sionally used to express adherence to
moderate or antiquated Liberal prin-
ciples. It is often applied to the
great Whig families who professed
a kind of aristocratic or limited fond-
ness for liberty.
Brief Answers
Would the reader who requested
information on the Abney-level please
forward his name and address, and
information will be posted L.S.:
The Wine of Genius, A Life of
Utrillo by Robert Coughlan, obtain-
able from Angus and Robertson, 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney F.T.G.:
The book is Ambrose Bierce: The
Devil’s Lexicographer by Paul Fatout,
published by the University of Okla-
homa Press, Norman, Oklahoma,
U.S.A A.K.C.: Write Society of
Australian Genealogists, 91a Phillip-
street, Sydney... .P.M.: Under the
provisions of the Social Services Con-
solidation Act, when a claimant or a
pensioner is married then the income
or assets of that person is deemed
to be half the total income or assets
of himself and his wife. It would,
therefore, be necessary to take into
consideration the value of his wife’s
assets in the event of his ceasing work
and applying for a pension. Where
these assets, apart from the home in
which they were permanently residing
if owned by them, exceeded £2OOO,
then no pension would be payable.
R.L.: Write Director, Common-
wealth Dept, of Social Services, Aus-
tralia House, 52 Carrington-street,
Sydney A.8.F.: (1) Information
not readily available. None of the
parties has Australia-wide membership
figures listed, and a check with each
State branch of each party would
be necessary to get State numbers.
However, though membership figures
are not secret, they are not readily
disclosed. (2) All accounts and
moneys are regularly audited, and
reports submitted to the executives.
Misappropriation is next to impos-
sible J.N.: Insufficient information
given on which to judge F.H.H.:
Scrape the floor well, then sweep
thoroughly, and wash it with kero-
sene or petrol. When dry, hose it
down, and keep it wet for ten minutes,
then sprinkle with dry cement and
leave it until it is quite dry. Sweep
well again, when it should be reason-
ably clean. Repeat if necessary
5.8.: Sydney Jephcott died two years
ago. There was an obituary para-,
graph published on him in the “Per-
sonal Items” page of The Bulletin
of July 18, 1951.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J.C.C.: Your ancient mariner
talked like a landlubber... .N. 8.: If
that is the best that you can do
you had better put up the shutters.
... .C.W.W.; The only tempting por-
tion was the description of the
counter-lunch S.P.; Your wood-
and-coal man is far too gloomy
C.L.: The saloon-bar skite is just
an uninteresting ear-basher H.J.J.:
Sorry, but you can’t peddle those
ideas in our pages C.T.F.: Well,
that should teach you to avoid step-
ping on banana-skins J.T.8.: It
is a pity that the talkative barber was
not silenced earlier in the story
A.A.P.: This week’s tallest unpub-
lishable story L.P.: Try writing
about something other than deadbeats
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
and doss-houses... .D.F.8.: As enter-
taining as a railway time-table
C.L.D.: “The Ups and Downs of
Life” went down to the basket....
R.G.: Not impressed by that collec-
tion of mouselike characters
H.J.M.: What were you trying to
write —a story or a tourist pamphlet?
J.M.KL: Manuscripts are not
returned unless stamps are enclosed
for the purpose N. 5.8.: Not so
bad, but not nearly good enough.
M.G.: Your schoolteacher
gushes too much W.M.: We took
the old bottle-oh out, shouted him
a drink, and sent him on his way.
....J.W.: Words! Words! Words!
Hundreds more than were needed for
the telling of the yarn... .A.T.:
Give us something Australian, not
fiction that belongs to an American
pulp-magazine G.S.: It cuts no
ice—it doesn’t even scratch the sur-
face. .. .T.L.H.: It never lived up to
the opening line: “What is better
than to sit in the shade on a hot
day and sip a glass of cold beer?”
.... E.C.D.: Should we ever decide
to print fairy stories we shall enlist
your assistance P.T.: Among the
many that didn’t catch the editor’s
eye... .F.H.: No bed and breakfast
for sheiks in the desert; nor for
headhunters on the Amazjon
C.F.S.: It takes too long to get
started S.McL; Toss out the
purple patches and try again....
K.M.: One of the absolute no-
hopers.... W.W.; Can’t you brighten
it with just a dash of humor?
C.P.: No one talks like that.


Australian Historical Sketches
The First Fleet's
Greatest Seaman
By M. H. ELLIS
r\ LL the commanders who
f~\ brought the First Fleet to
( I Botany Bay and Port
Jackson in 1788 were
naval officers; but among them
only one was a great seaman.
Phillip, the son of a German
teacher of languages who
immigrated into the heart of
London from Frankfort-am-
Main, had joined the Navy under
Captain Everett in 1755. He had
served at the capture of Havana
in June, 1761. He had gone on
half-pay in 1763 and had joined
the Portuguese Navy, coming
back to the English service in
1778, becoming a master and
commander of the fireship
Basilisk in the following year
and a post-captain in the Ariadne
frigate two years afterwards.
He had gone to the East Indies
for a year or two at the same
time as young Lieutenant Philip
Gidley King. And then, to the
amazement of everybody, he had
been appointed Captain-General
and Governor of the new colony
of New South Wales and Com-
modore of the Fleet which was
to found it.
He had been chosen because
he was an organiser and a man
of method and equable temper
rather than because he was a
seaman. He had the same
qualities which he admired in
Lieutenant King, whom he
appointed Lieutenant-Governor
of Norfolk Island.
Neither of these two com-
manders, however, could rate as
a great seaman, whatever their
qualities otherwise. The navi-
gator, the captain of voyages
who ranks greatest among the
absolute pioneers of Australia,
was Captain John Hunter.
He himself was to become
Governor in turn against
Phillip’s recommendation, which
was in favor of King—and not a
very good one at that. But it is
not surprising that when he
abandoned his office he went
back with a sigh of relief tof the
command of a battleship of the
Line,
He was beyond anything a
navigator, a cartographer of
ability, a man who in a small
ship bound on a long voyage
could rank with Cook or Van-
couver. Ashore he was a fish
out of water, benign, pleasant
and courtly but “a very plain
man,” one who was entirely
unworldly with “no turn for
traffic —I never had,” and there-
fore poor to the end of his days.
But put him on a deck and it
must have been plain to the
dullest during his maturer days
that he had “been in constant
and active employment in all
quarters of the globe,” one “bred
to the honorable and respectable
profession of a seaman.”
Hunter was the first Scot to
become a full-fledged Governor
of an Australian colony. He
had been born, a month before
Captain Phillip, on August 29,
1737. He had the sea in his
veins. His father was a merchant
captain of some standing. His
mother was the niece of George
Drummond, six times Lord
Provost of Edinburgh, who
planned the improvement of the
city, founded the medical faculty
in Edinburgh University and
helped to found the city’s Royal
Infirmary, and was credited with
haying made the financial calcu-
lations incidental to the union of
England and Scotland. His boy-
hood friend was William
Falconer, the sailor poet.
Young Hunter was not
intended for the sea by a pious
mother, but his father, perhaps
to discourage early leanings to-
ward an ocean life, took him
in his ship to Norway, where he
was wrecked. He was a small,
delicate boy, and when they
dragged him out of the cold and
tempestuous sea he was carried
in arms by a stout Norwegian
woman who, to warm him up,
put him to bed between her two
daughters, “whose care and
caresses” (according to the Naval
Chronicle ) “he long remembered
with gratitude.”
+ +
He was, in fact, so comfort-
able in his snug quarters that he
was in no hurry to be found by
his father, who, after their return
to Scotland, sent him to the
English port of King’s Lynn to
the care of his uncle Robert, a
merchant there. And this ancient
town —the birthplace of Van-
couver, the habitat of Bishop
Losinga, the founder of Norwich
Cathedral, with its black and
white guildhall and its old
“Greenland Fishery” house —
had everything to stir the love
of the sea in a youthful breast.
He was sent to the grammar
school, where Eugene Aram
may have taught him. He came
to know £)r. Charles Bumey and
his daughter Fanny, a family
much given to travel, later the
friends of Captain Cook, as they
were of Sir Joseph Banks.
Burney, organist at Bishop
Lpsinga’s church of St.
Margaret, almost succeeded
in making a musician of him, but
not quite. His uncle intervened
and decided that he would make
a better scholar and theologian.
And he was entered at Aberdeen
University with the church in
view for him.
He was a good Latinist for his
age, but had no call for a pious
life, and he soon made up his
own mind. If they would not
let him be a musician with
Captain Burney he would be a
seaman.
Thus he was taken on
board H.M.S. Grampus (sloop;
Captain Knackston, R.N.) as a
captain’s servant. He was 16
years old. It was May, 1754, and
almost immediately his ship was
chosen to join the convoy which
was to take King George II on
his last visit to the Continent.
Unlike most boys of his age
who took to the sea he already
had some knowledge of its
mysteries, so that from the begin-
ning he was able to act some-
times as a topman. And it was
not long before one of the
ancient midshipmen aboard, Mr.
Allen, began to teach him navi-
gation, until presently he was
teaching his teacher.
Next year he transferred to the
24-gun Centaur, an able-seaman,
sprightly and fearless on a yard,
who soon attracted the attention
of Captain Brown. One day
as he was at the masthead, hav-
ing just sent down the top-gallant
yard, he heard a hail from the
quarterdeck. He clambered
down and appeared before his
commander.
“Hunter,” roared that worthy
salt, “have you no other clothes
but that jacket and trousers?
You have? Well, take those duds
off and dress yourself up to do
duty as a midshipman.”
He overcame the diffidence
natural to one who had been the
intimate friend of all the lower-
deck and was observed doing his
duty like a man, devoting his
spare-time to the invention of
an instrument for measuring
inaccessible heights and practis-
ing with it on the masts.
Virtue having its reward, he
was brought to the notice of old
Admiral Knowles, who himself
had begun life as an able-
seaman, and who ended up in
command of the Russian Navy.
And with this old crustacean,
whose flag H.M.S. Neptune, a
90-gun monster, was wearing, he
rolled off to Rochefort in the
Seven Years’ War and had his
first taste of powder fired in
anger when the squadron was
sent against the batteries of the
island of Aix.
It is sad that Admiral
Knowles fared none so well in
this encounter. Admiral
Holmes, who had fought on the
Spanish Main and been a
member of the court-martial on
Admiral Byng, took his place
and was replaced in turn by the
redoubtable Saunders, who led
the way to the St. Lawrence,
where Wolfe was to take Quebec
in that year of 1759. That
famous operation John Hunter
took part in, serving under a
certain Mr. Jervis, who was first-
lieutenant in the Neptune, and
who is better known to history
as Lord St. Vincent.
All this helped Hunter’s
progress very little. He passed
his lieutenant’s examination, but
he had no interest to secure pro-
motion. There seemed nothing
therefore for him to do, as a
dogged Scottish fellow, but to
continue to study his profession
with a stubborn diligence, so
that when he was recommended
to Lord Hawke and taken by
him into the Royal George, still
a midshipman, in the year before
George 111 became King, he was
a master of maritime surveying
and a very practical astronomer,
a sound cartographer, an artist
of accuracy, if not a genius, who
was later to use his skill to draw
for us the first picture of Syd-
ney, eke the first sketch of the
platypus.
4- -l-
However, peace came too
soon, and he was thrown upon
the beach, his prospects bleak.
The Navy was a barren pastur-
age. He found himself unable
to join the merchant marine,
which was overrun with half-pay
naval officers. He felt himself
fortunate, indeed, when he was
employed by Captain the
Hon. Thomas Percival on the
Newfoundland station in the
Tweed.
Up among the codfish he froze
for four years, until his old
admiral, Durell, came over as
C.-in-C. of the North American
station and made him master’s
mate in the Launceston.
He had the usual luck. The
admiral, a good friend, died. At
once they put Hunter in com-
mand of a 22-ton schooner and
sent him off to sail the tem-
pestuous coast to carry Lord
Colvill’s dispatches to the Gulf
of St. Laurence. He returned to
England as master of the Laun-
ceston in 1769, and by examina-
tion was qualified to command a
fourth-rate; was sent in the
Carysfoot to Jamaica under
Captain William Hay, charted
the harbor of Pensacola and dis-
tinguished himself at Havana,
where, dressed as a common sea-
man, he went ashore and
sketched everything of military
value. Sir Hugh Palliser later
placed great value on his
drawings.
It was on this voyage, through
the incompetence of a pilot, that
he suffered on the Martyr Reefs
his second shipwreck. There it
seemed that both he and the ship
were likely to leave their bones.
Largely thanks to his efforts both
ship and crew were saved.
Neither he nor the captain saw
a bunk for nine days, and when
the ordeal was over he was some-
thing very like a sheer hulk.
When they carried the anchor
astern his “leg was caught in the
bite of the cable and brought the
anchor up, but the bone was not
broke,” When they cut away
the mainmast his right hand was
made useless, but he in person
buoyed the intricate channel
through which they must make
their way to safety. He helped
to jettison their guns. He did
most in superintending the rig-
ging of the jury-masts. And it
was a poor reward of fortune
that, limping and gammy-
handed, he closed his herculean
efforts by bursting a bloodvessel
in his chest, with the result that
it was touch-and-go for some
days whether he lived or died.
However, in triumph, the
Carysfoot limped into Charleston
(S.C.), whence the master
returned to England with his
charts and drawings of Havana
and Cartagena’s harbor-mouth.
He was straightway sent off to
the East Indies in the Intrepid,
and, during three weary years
wandering round -the Indian
Ocean, made himself acquainted
with the pilotage of every port
he visited.
Now his luck had begun to
change. Back in England he
found that his old friend the
future Lord St. Vincent remem-
bered him well enough to want
him as the master of Eagle, Lord
Howe’s flagship. Thus he fell in
with the man under whose orders
Phillip and he were 11 years later
to sail for Botany Bay. From
the first they became friends.
Wifiv-Howe he went through the
American War of Independence,
his ingenuity in demand when-
ever special seamanship or pilot-
age was called for.
When the fleet could not pene-
trate the Delaware to attack the
great fortress of Mud Island, key
to the river communications, it
was his skill which carried up the
river a cutdown ship bristling
with 14 - pounders, through
channels up which the Americans
had never navigated anything
bigger than a pilot-launch.
Within range of the enemy’s
fire he buoyed the channel,
brought the ship through, and
laid her in a position to enfilade
all the enemy’s guns, only half-
a-cable-length from the fort. x ln
the bloody fight which ensued
he had a shoulder knocked out of
joint, but went on with his job
of finding a passage up the river
through the barrier of chevaux
de frise laid across it; and it was
mainly due to him that Ham-
mond in the Roebuck presently
led seventy sail of transports all
the way up to Philadelphia.
It is a singular comment on
his lack of push and his unwil-
lingness to use the influence of
his friends that even now he was
only a warrant-officer, and that
his efforts to have himself
promoted lieutenant failed, even
though Howe in person testified
to his merit and cited several
cases in which, with great skill,
he had rescued ships which had
begn run ashore by pilots, paid
tribute to his handling of stores
and dubbed him “a distinguished
officer,”
He could not even secure con-
firmation of a temporary
appointment as sixth-lieutenant
in the Union, given him on a
cruise as a volunteer by no less
a commander than Sir Charles
Hardy, commander of the
Channel Fleet. It was not until
he was 42 years of age, on service
again in the West Indies, this
time under Sir George Rodney,
that he received his commission.
He lost his next chance of pro-
motion to captain by refusing the
mastership of the flagship, wish-
ing to hold himself free to serve
Lord Howe.
In the great hurricane of
1780, when the Thunderer sank
with his friend Commodore
Walsingham and the Stirling
Castle was wrecked, his own ship
was so battered that she had to
be sent home.
He now served under Keith
Stuart off the Shetlands. He was
with Hyde Parker at the Dogger
Bank battle against the Dutch;
then went back to Howe as his
third-lieutenant during the relief
of Gibraltar, after which at last
he rose to the proud office of
first-lieutenant of the Victory —
not yet Nelson’s. After a sea
action between the combined
fleets and the R.N. he was once
more promoted master and com-
mander and given the Spitfire, a
fireship, and later a sloop, a
French prize..
It was his fate that Howe
should become First Lord of the
Admiralty and have the order-
ing of the Botany Bay expedi-
tion, and it was as the result of
Howe’s influence that Hunter
found himself second-captain,
but actual seagoing commander
under Phillip, of the flagship of
the expedition, the little sixth-
rate H.M.S. Sirius. He was a
post-captain at last at the age of
50, and held a dormant commis-
sion to govern the colony in case
of Phillip’s death. At this point
his historic period really begins.
If Phillip was the father of
Australian settlement Hunter
could be called the father of
Jackson. He made the first
survey of Sydney Harbor. He
determined accurately the lati-
tude and longitude of the new
settlement.
The story of his voyage round
Cape Horn and the globe in
1788-89 in the leaking Sirius to
save the colony from starvation
has already been told (B.
22/4/’53). It was the first
circumnavigation of the world in
Antarctic latitudes. Alas, he was
wrecked in the huge surf of the
Norfolk Island coast less than a
year after his return, though
without loss of life. He and
most of his crew were marooned
half-starving on the island for
11 months.
+ +
He sailed off home in the tiny
Dutch scow Waaksamheyd,
which had come down from
Batavia as tender to the small
Supply. And this was, if any-
thing, a greater voyage than that
round the world. He sailed the
wallowing little vessel up through
St. George’s Channel, between
New Britain and New Ireland,
the first voyage through it from
Sydney Cove. He passed
through the Straits of Macassar.
He lay becalmed for days to-
gether. They became so short of
provisions that they were com-
pelled to call at savage islands
for food and water. He had to
fight off a rajah’s war proas in
an encounter off the south cape
of Mindanao, the potentate him-
self being wounded by musketry
in spite of Hunter’s efforts to
save him.
In 26 weeks he reached
Batavia, and, nothing daunted
by his adventures —remember
that he was 55 —set out across
the Indian Ocean for home in
his ungainly vessel, more like a
coffin than a ship. In all it took
him from March, 1791, to April,
1792, to reach England in his
foul cockle-shell via Batavia, the
Cape and St. Helena, to face
formal court-martial for the loss
of the Sirius. His N. S. Wales
journal, published in 1793 after
he had been honorably acquitted,
was the first work in which it was
intelligently anticipated that Van
Diemen’s Land would be
separated from the mainland.
And it was the first published
work to contain a picture of the
settlement of Sydney. Later it
was his officers, Bass and
Flinders, who explored the coasts
of Australia as they had never
been explored before, and proved
his theory true about the
separation of Tasmania,
He went back to Howe, now
commanding the Channel Fleet,
reputedly—though it is doubtful
—was in the Princess Charlotte,
Captain Roger Curtis, on the
Glorious First of June, 1794,
(i Continued on page 42)


sew
Sell
■ - .
CAMERAS
FOR THE
DISCRIMINATIVE
MINIATURE PHOTOGRAPHER
EEICA IHf scm 1.5 Summarit, E/B Case .. .. £lBO/0/0
EEICA IHf scm 1:2 Summitar, B/B Case .. .. £165/0/0
EBICA He scm 3.5 Elmar, E/B Case £94/6/3
CONTAX “D” tZ Biotar .. .. .. .. £175/0/0
NICCA Ills £2 Niccor, fully syn-
chronised, with E/R Case, £llB
LENSES
jLEIXZ 13.5 cm HEKTOK £4.5, £65
NIKKOB B.scm £3 with Case,
£l7/15/0
Cash, on Lay-by or Special Easy Terms
—No interest charged if paid off in
Three Months. We send C.O.D.
SPECIAL, SAME DAY DEVELOP-
ING AND PRINTING SERVICE
Cairns Camera Centre
Hotel Australia Buildingr,
19 Martin Place, Sydney. BW 9556.
CAIRNS
CAMERA
CENTRE
How to handle the
young male
One day, your seven- to nine-
years-old youngster is still a
baby, the next, he’s suddenly
all male, assertive, disobedient
and it’s your job to teach
him manhood’s real meaning.
In September Reader’s Digest
read commonsense tips on how
to guide your child —a helpful
article by an experienced mother
who knows the pain—and joy
—of raising a seven-years-old.
Also in Reader’s Digest,
“Why we all have Ups and
Downs” and 28 other stimulat-
ing articles, plus 22-page con-
densation of Bob Ruark s
thrilling new book “Horn of
the Hunter.” On sale now 1/6
—at all newsagents and book-
stalls. Get your copy today—
it’s unparalleled reading value
for all the family.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872,
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
w WTTOHCOCK. Manager.
SPORTING NOTIONS
The Canterbury Guineas, first
real test for the season’s three-
year-olds, will be decided this
coming Saturday, when Sydney’s
best performers of that age, as
well as two from Melbourne,
Nealing and Silver Hawk, will
measure strides, and maybe give
a pointer to the A.J.C.’s £lO,OOO
Derby. However, this S.T.C.
race at nine furlongs has not
been a guide to the classic in
past years ; in fact, few of its
winners have figured in Derby
fields. The Rosehill Guineas is
a better Derby pointer.
For .punters the Canterbury
Guineas has regularly been a
tough proposition, though
French Cavalier won at 5 to 4
in 1950. Prince Dakhil scored
at 7 to 1 last year, from Silver
Phantom and Ocean Spray, with
2-to-l favorite Idlewild fourth.
On recent displays Cortauld and
Connaught look likely to figure
in the finish of this Saturday’s
contest. Prince Dakhil’s 1.52|
is the best time so far for the
Canterbury Guineas, He was
ridden by J. Thompson, who
also won the race on The
Groom in 1947.
Joy Lad, winner of the Can-
terbury Stakes (w-f.-a.) last
spring from San Domenico and
True Leader, is not engaged in
the corresponding sprint on
Saturday, but a smart field will
contest this six-furlongs race,
past winners of which include
such high-class performers as
Shannon, San Domenico,
Yaralla, Reading, Beau Vite,
Beaulivre, Gold Rod, Lough
Neagh, Chatham and Amounis.
Tarien has the speed and form
to add this year’s event to her
record. Iroquois, True Leader
and Lucky Stride are others with
a chance. Beaulivre’s 1.1 H in
1940 remains record time for
the Stakes, He was ridden by
Darby Munro, who has won the
race on no fewer than six occa-
sions. Brother Jim scored on
Amounis in 1929.
Though Rosehill on Saturday
saw the defeat of the favorite in
the opening event, six of the
following seven winners started
warm favorites, and even the
seventh winner, Tatyoon, was
supported from 16’s to 9’s and
beat Booka, on whom a course
plunge had been lodged which
sent his price tumbling from B’s
to 7 to 2.
For the second time within a
few weeks at a Sydney meeting
backers of a short-priced winner
had to accept totalisator odds
when Idlewild had an easy vic-
tory in the Rosehill Handicap.
His price with the bookmakers
when betting ceased was 5 to 4
against—some punters had 6 to
4—but when Tossing was in-
volved in a barrier mishap and
had to be taken from the race
the stewards declared all bets on
Idlewild would be paid at
totalisator odds. This worked
out at slightly better than 5 to
4 on. Idlewild will be in the
line-up for the rich Newcastle-
Cup this coming Saturday.
There was nothing in the form
shown at Rosehill to bring about
changes in Epsom betting other
than the firming of Silver
Phantom. It should be noted,
however, that, while Silver
Phantom won in runaway
fashion, as he had done at his
two prior outings, the horses
that followed him home were
moderates, apart from stayer
Priory, who is now among the
prospects for the Metropolitan.
Silver Phantom’s real test will
come in Tattersall’s Tramway
Handicap "on September 12,
when he will be opposed by
some real sprinting talent; in
fact, the best in training. The
stable, at any rate, is quite con-
fident the flying grey will come
through his most important test
with honors. He certainly has
made an exhibition of Gradua-
tion Stakes fields.
It took Royal Forest only a
few runs to reach the winning-
list, but when the three-year-old
Delville Wood (imp.) colt did so
at Rosehill last Saturday the
stable probably was unprepared,
for it served up Belmont Park a
3-to-l second-favorite and sent
Royal Forest to the barrier at
33 to 1. Owner of the outsider,
Norman Wheeler, managing-
director of Kia-Ora stud. Scone
(N.S.W.), was impressed with
the manner in which his colt dis-
posed of the opposition. He
bred the three-year-old. Ela-
tion, dam of the winner, was
foaled in 1936 and got by Beau
Pere (imp.) from Yeomanry by
Bucks Hussar. Royal Forest
ran about a bit in the final
stages, otherwise he would have
won by much more than half a
length. He equalled the race
record made by speedy Karendi
about 12 months ago. Two
races later another of the Del-
ville Wood’s, Winged Glory,
won the Three-year-old Novice
for fillies.
Sydney jockey George Moore,
now riding in top form, has
taken an early lead in the
jockeys’ premiership with 10
successes. Neville Sellwood,
however, has been out of the
saddle for a couple of Saturdays
because of illness, and Jack
Thompson will not be in
action for several weeks yet.
Moore was seen at his best at
Rosehill on Saturday with three
wins, Idlewild, Nickola and
Gascar Lad, all heavily-backed
favorites. As well as making a
close study of race form,
scrutinising the work at the
various tracks, Moore is also a
keen student of the breeding side
of racing.
There are two mares in the
Australian studbook named Sun-
glow. One, by Agincourt (imp.)
from Lightness by Cyklon (imp.)
from Lightsome by The Welkin
(imp.), is the dam of 100-to-l
winner Dual Sun at Moonee
Valley. The other, whose name
appears as Sun Glow, is a
daughter of Australian Sun.
Dual Sun’s sire is Sun Storm
(imp.). The filly won the First
Ailsa Handicap from hot
favorite Yungawee, who prob-
ably was in need of a sharpen-
ing run, and maybe will recoup
punters’ losses next time out. It
was the, winner’s third race start.
Lady Daverina added to
Valley punters’ woes in the
Second Division of the Ailsa
Handicap, scoring at 50 to 1.
Odds-on favorite La Taraise
was a moderate third.
“Please stop while I dab a little eau-de-Cologne
on his brow.”
Though beaten into third-
place in the Tullamarine Handi-
cap at the Valley, Melbourne
Cup fancy Welloch, from
Adelaide, heartened his sup-
porters and has now firmed for
the two-miler. Welloch’s mission
this spring is the big Flemington
race, and trainer Jim Cummings
is bringing him along to perfec-
tion. Welloch finished less than
a length from favorite Frill
Prince and Jute Earl, but was
strongly supported for the mile.
It was a bit short for him. How-
ever, he had improved sharply,
and may soon win. In Satur-
day’s race he was last at the half-
mile, and had to be ridden wide
to reach the leaders near the
home turn. He didn’t get a clear
run" in the final furlong, and it
was a stout finish that carried
him to his close third.
At Newcastle on Saturday the
winner of the £l5OO Cameron
Handicap, veteran San Do-
menico, won his first race for
more than 12 months ; he started
at 20 to 1. He had led into the
straight in Tarien’s Warwick
Stakes a week earlier, but that
show of form was disregarded.
San Domenico has now won
more than £30,000 in stakes. The
heavy track was in his favor, as
was a drop in weight.
The finish of the Cameron
Handicap paid a compliment to
the handicapper, and also indi-
cated that Epsom supporters of
speedy Birdwood are not likely
to lose faith in the four-year-old,
who has won three races from
his last seven starts and been
second in two others. Birdwood
had the lead at the three
furlongs, but faded to fourth
place at the end, close behind
San Domenico, Hesdin and
Nagpuni.
A. C. Wheeler (brother of
Royal Forest’s owner) also
landed a winner on Saturday—
his leased filly Revel scoring in
the First Maiden Three-year-old
at Newcastle. Bred at Kia-Ora,
Revel is a daughter of Channel
Swell (imp.) and Gleeful, a
Midstream (imp.) mare from
Elation (dam of Royal Forest).
Sydney owner R. S. Burnstein
has a leaning to grey gallopers.
In past seasons he won several
events with Grey Theo, and
recently he was successful with
Ascham Lady at Hawkesbury
(she is a grey filly by Cinque
Ports), while he has a New
Zealand-bred grey two-year-old
in the A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate.
This is Grey Phero, a colt by
imported Pherozshah (Fr.) from
Prophetic by Robin Goodfellow
(imp.) from Goy by Callaghan
(imp.). A second foal. Grey
Phero is from the family which
produced Beau Vite, winner of
£27,770 in stakes, also Skipton
(Melbourne Cup) and Wotan
(Melbourne Cup). Yet the two-
year-old New Zealander was
bought for a modest 230gns. He
is sprinting smartly at Rosebery,
where he is trained by Harry
Horton, who formerly had
charge of Grey Theo.
Hyperion sire Judicate, whose
landed cost here will probably
be about £15,000, will be located
at the Kia-Ora stud, Scone
(N.S.W.), along with Delville
Wood, Midstream and Channel
Swell. A five-year-old, Judicate
was selected by Norman Wheeler,
managing-director of the Scone
property. Judicate was trained
for racing in England by Captain
C. C. Boyd-Richfort, whose team
includes her Majesty’s good colt
Aureole, runner-up in the
Derby. Judicate had 14 outings
for three wins, four seconds and
five thirds, in races to two miles
one furlong. Fairly, his dam, is
a half-sister to Precipitation,
Casanova and Persian Gulf.
* * *
Collingwood, on top in all
phases of the play, beat Foot-
scray on Saturday and won the
double-chance at the V.F.L.
premiership. Footscray now
plays Essendon in the first semi-
final next Saturday, Geelong
will meet Collingwood a week
later, the loser to play the Foot-
scray-Essendon winner to decide
who’ll meet who in the final.
It was only in the last quarter
that Footscray, then 6.8 behind,
broke through and showed some
of the fast, clever football that
took them into the four. But
’Wood had too big a lead, and
though ’Scray slapped on 6.3 to
2.2, ’Wood prevailed, 10.14 to
8.7. Honors for the day went
to both back-lines.
In the other Melbourne games
Carlton beat North Melbourne,
15.15-14.10, South Melbourne
ran all over St. Kilda for 13.20
to 4.12, Geelong easily beat Mel-
bourne by 16.14 to 8.8, Essendon
scored 19.12 to Richmond’s 13.7,
and Fitzroy beat Hawthorn,
13.6-9.10.
The Wallabies beat Boland by
one point (14-13). Jones’s
second try, late in the game,
pulled the Australians in front.
Other points came from a try
by Phipps, a goal by Colbert and
a field-goal by Solomon.
At Suva, the Fijians beat the
Australian R.U. visitors, 26-6.
Eastern Suburbs, in beating
University 14-8, had the distinc-
tion of going through the 18
rounds of the Sydney premier-
ship unbeaten. Only two other
Rugby Union clubs have done
that in Sydney: Gordon, in
1949, and Newtown, in 1910.
Easts also scored most points in
the club championship—337, a
record. Next Saturday, Easts
and University meet again, in
the semi-final, when University
will probably field a stronger
team. The other semi-final will be
between Manly and Eastwood.
Manly was beaten by
Northern Suburbs on Saturday
(12-8), and Eastwood beat
Gordon, 9-6. In other games,
Randwick beat St. George,
16-15, and Parramatta and
Drummoyne played a nil-all
draw,
“F.”: Australia has wonderful
Rugby material, but there is a
kind of national prejudice in
favor of the spectacular, or the
flashy, rather than the solid and
the sustained. This is demon-
strated by the partiality of selec-
tors for players who “shine” in
attack rather than those who
are solid in defence: forgetting,
very often, that a player who
can be sparkling against a weak
team can look sorry against a
strong one. Rugby Union, how-
ever, is one game in which the
fundamentals cannot be ignored.
But, if it is any consolation, the
rest of the Rugby Union world
has found no answer to the
Springboks’ panzer tactics.
* * *
Of 10 contests American
Freddie Dawson has had during
two visits to Australia, he won
eight of them via the shortcut
route (clean knockouts, or tech-
nical knockouts), his only
opponents to last the limit being
fellow - American Charlie
Williams and local Bernie Hall,
although both were beaten on
points. Dawson (10.3 i) and
Hall (10.8 U met again at Leich-
hardt, and Hall almost lasted the
limit a second time, but a right
to the chin floored him for a
“compulsory eight” count in the
last round, and when a left, then
right knocked him through the
ropes, ref. Art Mawson counted
ten before Hall got into the ring
again, so another knockout went
down on Dawson’s Australian
record.


New Discoveries, New Interpretations
Know Your Bible?
By CECIL MANN
NO infuriated American
divine has so far got him-
self into the cables by
making a bonfire of the
big new Interpreter’s Bible, as
one was reported to have thus
rather warmly criticised the also
American - produced Revised
Standard Version.
Perhaps the reverend firebug
—if not, in the first place, an
illuminating example of the
justly-famed American journa-
listic imagination, and if still at
large—might simply have started
reading this later Bible and not
been able to put it down, let
alone put it down in the in-
cinerator. If so, there could be
many like him. For this is, on
various special grounds, a
fascinating Bible. It is a Bible,
plus. In fact, it is two Bibles,
plus.
The two Bibles are the English
Bible (the King James Version,
generally known as the
Authorised Version, though
nobody ever officially authorised
it) and the Revised Standard
Version, completed only a year
or so back.
The two are printed side by
side in parallel columns at the
tops of the pages, which are in
three sections: first a section of
the two strikingly different
texts, then an exegesis on what
the given passages tell (e.g., when
Cain invited Abel to come with
him into the “field” this means
into the open country, where he
thought they wouldn’t be seen;
and “the mark of Cain” was not
the brand of a murderer but a
protective mark); and below that
again comes an “exposition” in
the nature of a scriptural essay
giving points in the passages a
modern application, sometimes,
in this setting, delightfully sur-
prising, not to say a bit startling.
Did you know that “Lincoln
wore a muffler and Einstein is
never seen on the tennis-courts
of Princeton”?
Or, again, would you expect
that the fiercest blast you
could read against the use of the
atom-bomb at Hiroshima would
be met here in this American
Bible? On these lines:
It was left for our age at Hiro-
shima to come within sight of the
realisation of that age-long dream
of the depraved human heart in its
most horrible form [i.e., the dream
of wholesale extermination of the
enemy, as of the Egyptians at the
Bed Sea]. There is always justifi-
cation to produce in the court ; but
inevitably history judges the use of
power. How shall the virtuous
triumphant of 1945 stand on this
count at the bar of the ages?
Or, further from the
expositors, odd bits of informa-
tion;
... .a director of the British Broad-
casting Corporation has remarked
that he had listened to over six
hundred radioed sermons, and only
one of them had had anything to
say about death.
Or this as a specimen of
downright castigation (of Jacob,
praying);
If God will save his skin and also
make him prosperous, then he will
give back to God a tenth of what
God may have given him. A cheap
prayer, if ever there was one!
A question occurs here which
might well be applied to a
good deal more in the Old
Testament as this reflects an
actual people: Did the original
recorder of the prayer regard it
as at all “cheap,” or as merely
a fair bit of bargaining? He
might have set it down as self-
evidently “cheap,” but, all things
considered, that’s a mighty big
might. Rather, it would seem
he saw Jacob as a hero and
accepted the prayer as he
accepted Jacob’s Holly wooden
marital transactions and the
equally amoral affair of the
speckled and ring-streaked cattle.
Simply, he wrote both in and
for his own day. Certainly if he
shared any of the modern (and
modernising) expositor’s indig-
nation he kept it to himself.
These expositors are, at any
rate, all enthusiasts, and of
course greatly and widely learned
(their literary allusions, for
example, must bring in just
about every important name in
literature), and some of them
are happy men. They tempt
quotation ; one more of them :
Thank God for fish!.... In the
beautiful old Benedicite, which is
sung in many church services, there
is the echo of man's gratitude for
what the record in Genesis tells that
God created on the fifth day—not
only fish in general, but the great
sea monsters, too. “O ye Whales,
and all that move in the waters,
bless ye the Eord: praise him, and
magnify him for ever.”
The whaling ships that went out
from the seaports of New England
and from other harbors of the world
established an industry that in its
day was as full of economic profit
as it was of romance. Everyone who
has read Melville’s “Moby Dick” will
understand that, but not everyone
may realise the whole immensity of
the fisheries of the world. Before
the outbreak of World War 11, the
fisheries were producing thirty-seven
billion pounds of fish products
annually, valued at almost a billion
dollars. Some countries owe their
very existence to their fishing fleets,
e.g., Japan before 1941 controlled
nearly a third of the fishery harvest
of the world.
As the expositor enthusiasti-
cally says, “Thank God for
fish!” How are they biting right
now, sir, over there in Virginia?
But, with all due fondness for
these expositors and their exposi-
tions, they are not, after all, the
most important “plus” in this
huge Interpreter’s Bible. There
are the extensive expert introduc-
tions of truly vast range and
scope. So far, the present writer,
has had only the first of the
twelve volumes (there can’t be
many yet in Australia), but, a
massive tome, it sets the pattern,
though the actual Bible texts it
holds are only those of Genesis
and Exodus.
Its introductions (it is all
beautifully printed by the
Abingdon-Cokesbury Press, of
Nashville) sweep over, in some
500 pages, a measureless field of
biblical lore: the Bible as a
whole in its historical setting and
development; the two Testa-
ments and the individual books
in their time and place; the
biblical characters in some forth-
right reassessments (e.g.,
Solomon . . . poor Solomon!);
the people among whom this
literature, to use perhaps the
most accurate word, evolved;
the processes and the pitfalls of
its evolution, from oral begin-
nings through transcription, and
copying, and editing, and trans-
lating (much of all of this marked
with inaccuracies, not always
disinterested); how the diverse
and often enough contradictory
materials which make up what
we think of as the Bible, a unified
whole, actually came to be thus
blended together, and finally
canonised, made sacrosanct, a
fusion of fragments into a unity
to which nothing might thence-
forth be added, or, if you wish,
from which nothing shall be
taken away.
In a sense, this Interpreter’s
Bible might be said to override
both those rules. The “plus”
which the 125 world-eminent
biblical-expert contributors add
to the text (or texts) is stated to
work out at a grand—or, you
might think, staggering—total of
eight million words! And
though the expositions, by the
nature of things, are (perhaps
practically all ephemera, the
introductions must add to almost
anyone’s understanding of the
Bible, an addition carried much
further by the exegeses.
And then again, in the same
sense and by the same means,
there is a considerable taking-
away. Working in the light of
total, and especially of very
recent, discoveries —by archaeo-
logists, historians, philologists,
and many others —they tear
away at the pasted facade of
centuries of innocently ignorant
error, deliberate interested per-
versions and forgeries and
frauds, misconception, mistrans-
lation, misconstruction, mis-
application, misinterpretation.
And as this process goes back to
the original compilers, trans-
cribers and editing hands, before
final canonisation, there can
definitely be said to be here an
actual taking - away, however
intact the text nevertheless
remains.
Thus, in laying down what the
Bible is and what it is not
(among other things, it is not a
book of history nor a book of
science, and it “is not an easy
book to read”), the general editor
of the commentary himself
manages a pretty sweeping
taking-away, by implication at
least. Though the two texts used
are in fact given in the usual
order of arrangement, he severely
criticises the church for its share
in the bafflement of the reader
by its original setting-out pf this
misarrangement and the adher-
ence thereto in all printings of
the Book.
“The years,” he comments,
“have gone far to defeat the
Reformation hope that the Bible
might become an open book for
the ‘man behind the plow.’ ”
Certainly that prospective reader
would have a very different
Bible if the tremendous turn-
about and taking-away implicit
in the following emphatic com-
ment were acted upon:
The Bible is a library, and the
library is itself an anthology. The
library comprises religious interpre-
tations of history, hymns, idylls,
sermons, letters ; and it covers a
period of several centuries. Then
why are its books arranged so as
to hide true chronology? If the Old
Testament were so printed that
Amos and Hosea came first, with
the Pentateuch in its place of com-
paratively late authorship, the reader
could no longer assume that the
books of the Law (whatever their
elements of antiquity) came from
the childhood of the race. If the
New Testament set most of the
epistles first, followed by Mark, and
if Duke and Matthew were shown as
the work of the church toward the
end of the first century, the reader
would not be misled into believing
that the Synoptic Gospels are simple
biographies of Jesus, Bather he
would be prepared to study them
for what they are, namely, primers
for catechumens in the Christian
faith.
As to which it might be
thought that, though a Bible so
arranged would probably greatly
profit the match industry,
whether it would be likely to do
either the imaginary “man
behind the plow” or the said
faith any good would be
doubtful. The scheme, however,
represents the realistic approach,
and, in that has the example of
most of the Old Testament
writers, who were realistic
enough for any taste.
It is 50 years since a previous
full-scale commentary interpre-
tation of the Bible was
attempted, and since then there
have been vital corrective dis-
coveries over the whole field of
Bible study—a field in which, as
one of these later interpreters
rather despairingly admits, “the
glut of facts is such that no man
can digest them.” New manu-
scripts of portions of both the
Old and the New Testaments
have been found, of considerably
older date than those on which
the standard text had previously
been based, and research of all
kinds has led to other discoveries,
not merely enabling but fairly
enforcing new interpretations
and very different conclusions.
So here we have this team of
125 world-authorities —represent-
ing “the best exegetical and
expository skill of our time” —
aided by another 36 world-
authorities as consultants, har-
vesting the records of those dis-
coveries and the essential con-
tents of whole libraries of
biblical lore. In this context
even eight million words, pub-
lished in twelve massive volumes,
amounts to a compression.
The list of consultants and
contributors ranges over prac-
tically the entire English-
speaking • world; mainly
American, but the sweep taking
in also Cambridge, Oxford,
London, Edinburgh, Glasgow,
Aberdeen and even Cairo, with,
as an Australian representative,
among the consultants the Rev.
C. Irving Benson, of Wesley
Church, Melbourne. Their com-
pleted work might well go into
the records as one of the great
publications of the present day.
“Hardly more than a primer,”
says a preface.
There have been bigger-
looking Bibles, much bigger.
One seen in Sydney a year or
two back must have tipped the
beam at close on a couple of
hundredweight. Its bulk would
have severely tested even the
“athletic minister,” happily
introduced in one of the Inter-
preter’s Bible expositions, who
“plays good baseball with his
boys and beats all the old golf-
ing reprobates of his town on the
links,” and so has a bit of an
edge on “the old muffled book-
worm who shuffles over the
parish in galoshes.”
That Sydney-viewed Bible
contained nothing but the King
James Version, no additions of
sort, its size a result wholly
of parchment-like paper and type
that could be read without eye-
strain at a range of several yards,
chosen apparently on the prin-
ciple of he who runs (past) may
read, and possibly designed for
clergy in a hurry.
But it was, too, in its way, an
act of homage to that superlative
Version, to which the American
editors of the Interpreter’s Bible
also pay marked tribute, giving
it precedence over the Revised
Standard Version in the parallel
columns of text because:
The King James Version is not
only a devotional classic in its own
endnring right, which in majestic
cadence worships God in the beauty
of holiness, but is so inevitably true
in many of its translations as
almost to have added new power to
the original words.
Of the later Revised Standard
Version the writer of one
of the introductory chapters
says that it “often smoothes out
the language of the original
beyond recognition.” Virtues
claimed for it are that, “by the
general consent of scholars, it is
the most accurate revision of the
King James Version,” and it has
“the advantage of recently dis-
covered manuscripts” and of
“newer knowledge of the original
languages.”
The learned 125 writers of the
introductions, exegeses and
expositions have those same
advantages of recent discoveries
and recent knowledge, and thus
they can tell us with assurance
such things as that, when the
Hebrew tribes came into Canaan,
theirs was no almost-overnight
conquest, as represented in the
Old Testament accounts, but a
drawn-out business spread over
centuries; that, for instance, the
fall of Jericho and that of Ai (in
Joshua) were several centuries
apart; that some places (listed
conquests in Judges) were never
subdued; and that Jerusalem
remained a foreign city right
down to the time of David.
Also that the Israelite nomads
were a mixed people (“Thy
father was an, Amorite, and thy
mother a Hittite” wasn’t merely
metaphorical). The nomads, it
seems, were as good as un-
cultured, and, entering Canaan,
they came among a compara-
tively richly cultured people:
“classical Hebrew is basically
the speech of pre-Israelite
Canaan”! They “gradually
learned the operations of agri-
culture and city life” ; what they
had was the latent genius to
conquer not so much the land as
its culture and make it, or a
choice of it, their own. “The
Canaanites have received less
than their due” ; there is a giv-
ing here of some of that due;
The Canaanites were a people of
unusual ability. Through more than
a thousand years they had built up
in Palestine a great civilisation....
Their inventive genius originated
three novel systems of writing ; two
of these were alphabetical, and of
these one was destined to supplant
the venerable systems of Egypt and
Babylonia, and to become in its
lineal descendants the medium of
written record and communication
for the entire Western culture even
to this day. These alphabetical
characters were ready, waiting when
the Israelites arrived.
The nomads had their own
traditions and legends, and their
abiding religious concept, and
above all they had their genius
for adapting and assimilating to
themselves, even in religion:
“The Canaanite religion was old
and rich in ritual and liturgy
And so it is that certain of the
psalms, for example, which we
use to this day, are really
Canaanite religious poems taken
over and adapted by Israel.”
Even the Song of Songs is said
to go back there, to songs of the
old Canaanite cultus. It is still
called the “Song of Songs which
is Solomon’s,” and, if this
banner of glory was shredded
from poor Solomon long since,
there is a much more tradi-
tionally - consecrated quality
wrenched from him now by these
searching interpreters.
They deny him his wisdom —
all of it! You begin to feel
sorry for Solomon. He goes
through a fortune, a fabulous
fortune, on wine, women and
song and architecture and
this, of course, is very serious.
But to lose now, at this remove,
every shred of his wisdom as
well! “A wise man might have
preserved and strengthened the
new Israelite State, but Solomon
was quite unfit for the task.
Vain, ostentatious, shortsighted,
selfish and cowardly, he was
unscrupulous in the attainment
of his ends,” etc.
Poor, poor Solomon. You like
to think of him, perhaps, decid-
ing the baby case, or even, say,
so impressing the Queen of
Sheba by at once seeing through
the hoax when —to test his
wisdom, says legend—she sent
him two hundred boys disguised
as girls. If so, you yrill get no
comfort from these latter-day
Sopherim, not merely one but
several of whom rather heavily
debunk him. The word
“wisdom” as applied to him
(explains one) is to be taken
wholly in the Oriental sense of
meaning merely that he was a
scholar. And another says of
him;
all the literature attributed to
Solomon is clearly the work of a
much later age. As law was
attributed to Moses, psalmody to
David, so sapiential writing was
“Solomonic.” But in the deeper
sense of true wisdom, the wisdom
of justice and mercy and of the
word of the Lord, Solomon was far
from wise. He might well have died
with the words of another monarch
on his lips, “Apres moi le deluge.”
Still, even though, in making
himself a glittering court and
building his temple and stables,
he did go through all the wealth
which the much steadier and
more saving David had amassed,
it was in this same Solomon’s
reign that the real brilliance of
Israel emerged; there was then
“a notable intellectual awaken-
ing, doubtless fostered and parti-
cipated in by the king himself” ;
and it was, after all, in his day,
500 years before Herodotus, that
the true “father of history”
worked away with his reed pen
and papyrus, “writing the first
(Continued on page 42)


dfg
Want to Really
CATCH
FISH?
>/.
«
o
o
It’s positively uncanny ... this
electric decoy emits a buzz
similar to an Insect or_ bee
which lures the fish from inac-
cessible places to a convenient
spot selected by the angler.
The “Buzzing Bee” does not
infringe the ethics of true
sportsmanship ... you simply
cast in its vicinity where the
fish are thickest. Priced at only
42/- post free, complete with
standard size torch battery.
Bmg Bee
FISH COAXER
Send cheque, postal order or postal
note (please add exchange to inter-
state and country cheques) payable
to W. A. Smith, Post Office Box
885096, Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
ej 5
/ TH
The intensive research and
accumulated knowledge of
precision engineering dur-
ing 100 years of watch
making result in the pro-
duction of to-day's
Lavina—l7-jewelled
Swiss master-
pieces.
¥
'MM
mm
WATCHES
gelled
Cj^i'vs 5 Masfgpp iece*
LW27.61
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
"BIG FOUR" MEETING
All the rosy visions of a brave
new world to be magically pro-
duced by a “Big Four” tea-party
have faded out of the British
Press.
From the meeting at the
“lower level” of the “Four’s”
Foreign Ministers, aimed at for
late this month, nothing is now
expected. A London “News
Chronicle” writer, for example,
makes the downright comment
that “The four-Power confer-
ence, major or minor, is dead.
Make no mistake about that.
Moscow deliberately killed it.”
The disillusionment, contrast-
ing grimly with the high hopes
inspired by Sir Winston
Churchill’s somewhat airy sug-
gestion of a friendly “get-
together” at the “top level,” has
followed Moscow’s terms of
“acceptance” of the Foreign
Ministers’ meeting.
That “acceptance,” with the
hand of Molotov writ large in
it, was characterised by London
“Times” as “a shade more dis-
appointing than was generally
expected.” “Manchester
Guardian” saw in it nothing but
a return “to the endless and
sterile discussions of what the
Soviet and Western Govern-
ments might discuss if they ever
managed to meet.” London
“News Chronicle” also saw only
a return to the “old sterility.”
Edinburgh “Scotsman” com-
mented that “A conference such
as Russia is prepared to enter
would probably lose itself in a
general political discussion in-
stead of making progress with
particular issues.”
Further on the Moscow
“acceptance,” “Manchester
Guardian” has commented that
“The [Russian] Note most forci-
bly suggests a deep-seated un-
willingness to negotiate
seriously on European matters
when it insists that China should
attend the proposed conference.
In part this demand is based on
what might be called Russia’s
antiquarian belief in the pre-
scription of 1945 —the domina-
tion of the world by the five
Great Powers. A great deal
has happened since 1945, and
the prescription is out of date ;
when Russia appeals to Potsdam
and the other agreements of that
period it is usually a sign that
she does not mean to bring about
any real change. The proposal
for the inclusion of China seems
above all designed to confuse
the issue.”
The earlier quoted “News
MISS EUROPE, 1953
London “News Chronicle”
Chronicle” writer is convinced
that the Kremlin is “just stall-
ing,” because the “leadership in
the U.S.S.R. is still unsettled and
the personal rivalries and cross-
currents are too dangerously
involved. In Russia those who
count in the strange and now
muddled sphere of Soviet poli-
tics have not been able to decide
whose side it will be safe to take.
What they do know, and what
the rest of us know, is that their
satellite empire is no longer to
be relied upon, either for de-
fence or for aggression, in any
part; and that in particular
Eastern Germany is in obstinate
chaos.”
All this is a far remove from
the almost wild optimism of a
month or two back, when Lon-
don “Economist” was practically
a lone voice in doubting the
wisdom of Sir Winston’s rather
off-the-cuff suggestion for “in-
formal talks,” apparently be-
tween himself, Ike, Malenkov
and whoever might happen to
represent France at the “top-
level” when the sit-down took
place.
“Washington,” as New York
“Herald Tribune” rightly notes,
“was dubious from the first; but
most of the Europeans were
hypnotised by the idea that the
new Soviet regime might really
be willing to make peace.”
Also, “Sir Winston’s idea of
high-level conference should not,
as he said, ‘be overhung by
ponderous or rigid agenda or
lead into mazes or jungles of
technical details zealously con-
tested by boards of experts
drawn up in a vast, cumbrous
array.’ This is precisely the
result, however, which the Soviet
Note [of “acceptance”] is aimed
to produce. It repeats all the
rigid technicalities of Russia’s
past propaganda arguments and
demands an enlargement of the
agenda sufficient to allow its
boards of experts to bring them
cumbrously into the business.
There is not a line in the Note
to suggest that a general settle-
ment may be any nearer now
than in the past.
“The British may argue that
Sir Winston was right in asking
for an informal, high-level pro-
cedure, since the other kind has
produced nothing more hopeful.
The U.S. State Department can
answer with some force that the
Note shows how useless and
dangerous the informal ap-
proach would have been, since
the Russians are still refusing to
face the simplest pre-condition
for any real peace or settlement
in Europe” —that is, the con-
dition made in inviting Russia
to a Foreign Ministers’ con-
ference that this should first of
all deal with free elections in
Germany and the establishment
of a free, all-German Govern-
ment.
Such elections, leading to a
united Germany, are now recog-
nised by the. disillusioned as
possibilities the Kremlin fears
above almost all other things.
At all events, any failure of
the Foreign Ministers’ confer-
ence cannot bring about the
disillusioned dismay which, it is
clear, would as good as certainly
have followed a meeting on the
Churchill lines.
German Elections
Many important decisions
(including ratification of the
European Defence Community
treaty and a Saar settlement)
have been held up pending the
result of the West German
elections (September 6).
Any decisive defeat of Dr.
Adenauer would be regarded as
a Soviet victory.
The campaign has been mainly
fought on the issue of foreign
policy, with Dr. Adenauer claim-
ing that his policy of European
integration will in no way
hamper the chances of the re-
unification of Germany, but will
on the contrary help the nation
to achieve its unity, and with the
Socialists asserting that German
unity comes first and that Euro-
pean integration prevents
German re-unification.
Tn London “Spectator,”
German broadcaster and former
editor of “Die Zeit” Ernst
Friedlaender has forecast that
“there can be no landslide.” On
his reading, “the result of the
polls will not be sensational,”
and should “be favorable for Dr.
Adenauer rather than for the
Socialists.”
It certainly would be sensa-
tional if Dr. Adenauer were de-
feated. It would mean, says a
New York “Herald Tribune”
correspondent at Bonn, that
“The American policy of Ger-
man integration into Western
Europe would come apart. Thus
American policy in Europe de-
pends squarely on the longevity
and continued active leadership
of a man who is nearly 80 years
old. This total dependence on
one old man is only a symptom
of the general flimsiness of
American policy in Europe.”
Adenauer is the last of the
original architects of European
union, the others being Italy’s
De Gasperi, France’s Schuman
(both in eclipse) and Britain’s
Bevin. In London “Observer’s”
view. Dr. Adenauer, even in
office, might not be able to pur-
sue that policy, anyway, with the
other mainstays gone.
Korean "All Quiet"
While most other newspaper
space devoted to Korea has been
used for weighing the profit-and-
loss account and speculating on
the future, “New York Times”
found a place for an on-the-spot
detailing of the actual reactions
of those most closely concerned,
the fighting soldiers in the line.
Among other vivid impres-
sions, the correspondent re-
corded:
“At 10 o’clock at night the
guns fell silent. The soldiers
didn’t say much, but they felt a
vast sense of relief. There
would be no patrols that night
or in the nights to come, and
no one had to worry about a
Chinese attack or the Com-
munist mortar and artillery fire.
“It made a big difference —a
much bigger difference than can
be realised by anyone except the
grim-faced foot-soldier himself.
“When the firing ceased, the
soldiers peered cautiously across
no-man’s-land, but no one im-
mediately jumped out into the
open from the cover of the
trenches. They just didn’t want
to take any chances.
“Soon the soldiers saw the
Chinese foe begin to turn on
floodlights in his area, and
enemy soldiers could be ob-
served as silhouettes walking
about on the neighboring hills.
Communist front-line loud-
speakers began to talk: ‘We
congratulate the United Nations
for the truce you have signed
with us.’
“Some of the front-line
soldiers slept like babies that
first night of full quietness and
no fears. Others, too excited to
sleep, rested their guns on the
trenches and looked out at the
Communists walking around
on the floodlighted hills.”
The correspondent goes on to
report a no-man’s-land fra-
ternising which should call up
memories to Diggers who were
on Gallipoli when a somewhat
similar meeting took place,
though that was a very tem-
porary truce:
“The next morning in no-
man’s-land stranger things began
to happen. Both sides sent out
parties to recover bodies. Soon
the men were intermingling and
in slightly strained fashion even
talking to each other. On one
occasion a Chinese soldier em-
braced a surprised Marine, and
Chinese troops in several in-
stances gave American soldiers
presents of wine, apples and
pennants proclaiming peace.”
Battle of the Parcels
All hands, in overseas com-
ment, agree in hailing the free
food-parcels for East Germans
as a notable victory for the West
—all, that is, except the Corns,
whose cries of pain have been
loud in all lands.
No one accepts that the
common human magnet of
something-for-nothing explains
the rush to benefit by the hand-
out. Against such an idea it is
pointed out that the East
Germans went in the face of the
most savage threats of their
Communist rulers; they risked
(London “Time and Tide”
report) “making their lot
unhappier than it already is”
and this for the sake of “the
barest necessities of life.”
That seems a fair enough
description of the parcels, each
of which (says “New York
Times”) contained a 101 b. total
of lard, flour, condensed milk
and dried beans or peas,
London “Economist” de-
scribed the fight for these food
parcels as “the most fantastic
and revealing thing that has hap-
pened in seven years of cold
war.” The takers came from all
parts of East Germany, The
parcels distributed are numbered
by the million. The Corns at
first threatened the prospective
recipients ; then, as they returned
with their parcels, menaced
them; and, then, finally, gave
the game best, and maybe
enjoyed a few parcels them-
selves.
“What began as, for the most
part, a humanitarian scheme for
the relief of distress,” said
London “Spectator,” “turned
into a resounding political
success.”
“New York Times” reported
that “In Berlin a battle is being
waged as extraordinary and
dramatic as the struggle five
years ago in which the Western
air-lift topped the Russian
blockade.”
“We are accustomed by now,”
said “Manchester Guardian,”
“to peculiar happenings in
Berlin, but the incidents which
have accompanied the free dis-
tribution of food parcels to the
citizens of East Berlin and the
Soviet zone are among the
oddest yet.”
Even the Leftish London
“New Statesman,” anything but


Short Story
Writing
Short story writing is the ideal
hobby. All types of story are
wanted, and the work of the
unknown writer is carefully con-
sidered.
Learn the essential technique by
post—the Regent way. In a
fascinating course you are shown
how to get plots, how to construct
them, how to write dialogue, how
and where to sell MSS. Special
arrangements are made for Aus-
tralian students.
Send to-day to The Regent
Institute (Dept. 60E), Palace Gate,
London, W.B, England, for a free
copy of “How to Succeed as a
Writer.”
Write for this interesting book-
let NOW. There is no obligation.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’* value* are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in -
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
pro-American, felt impelled to
comment: “The distribution of
free food parcels to the East
German population is the first
successful piece of propaganda
which the Western Powers have
thought up since the cold war
began. If psychological warfare
has to be waged,, this is the way
to wage it.”
London “Economist” made
the further comment: “All this
looks, so far, like the perfect
propaganda operation, the
psychological warrior’s dream:
a simple idea, launched at the
right moment with money and
organisation behind it, has set
hundreds of thousands of
people acting publicly against
their Government. Yet neither
the United States Government
nor the American authorities in
Germany and Berlin seem
anxious to claim credit for it.
Instead, they insist that this is a
matter between the free Berliners
and the Germans behind the
Iron Curtain, a gesture of
humanity and sympathy from
the former, who decided very
wisely to do nothing while the
latter demonstrated in the streets
on June 17. The British and
French authorities in Berlin
appear to have opposed the idea
of distributing food, and even
some American officials feared
that this political exploitation of
hunger and discontent might
prove a boomerang.”
It turned out to be, from the
West’s point of view, bread cast
upon the waters.
On just who did start the
thing going reports vary. Thus,
London “Time and Tide”
states;
“It was Mayor Kressmann of
Kreuzberg who thought of the
idea which was to become as
sensational as the Berlin air-lift
—the idea of getting food across
the tenuous sector boundaries of
Berlin which would eventually
reach the hungry Germans
throughout the Soviet-dominated
zone. Within a remarkably short
time, President Eisenhower’s
characteristic generosity and a
typically American burst of
loading and dispatching started
a huge stream of food parcels
flowing towards the crossing
points of West and East Berlin.
“What neither Mayor Kress-
mann nor President Eisenhower
could have foreseen was that
what began as a charitable
expedient should have developed
into an all-out attack on the very
roots of the system which has
brought one-half of Germany
to the brink of famine and
beyond the borders of misery.
“The food-parcels scheme has
moreover revealed the real extent
of the starvation inside the
Soviet zone to an extent which
was certainly not anticipated
when the plan was started....
Men and women were prepared
to undergo every sort of hard-
ship and humiliation, even to
New York “Herald Tribune”
“ DON’T KNOW ABOUT YOU, BUT I'M GETTING
HUNGRY!”
risk severe punishment, in order
to carry away a parcel of basic
foodstuffs.”
The Berlin correspondent of
Edinburgh “Scotsman,” noting
that “the action did not originate
with President Eisenhower’s
food-offer, but that American
supplies are now pouring into an
action which was planned before
it and sprang from independent
German initiative,” traces the
scheme back to a first move in
the Bundestag last April, and
says that, when nothing came of
this, Mayor Ernst Reuter of
West Berlin asked the Bonn
Government to contribute a
monthly sum of five million
Deutschmarks (£425,000) so that
West Berlin could give regular
food parcels at least to the East
Berliners.
The rising in East Berlin on
June 17 intervened before the
Federal Government replied;
then it made a counter-suggestion
—it would give no money but
the food itself, to be taken out
of the Government’s food
reserves stocked in Berlin. But
any releases from these stocks,
held against the contingency of
another blockade and sufficient
to feed two million West
Berliners for six months, required
the permission of the Allied High
Commissioners. Among these
there was considerable hesitation
for fear of complications, and it
took the united urging of Mayor
Reuter and Chancellor Adenauer
to overcome it.
“That,” says the correspon-
dent, “is the point where Presi-
dent Eisenhower’s offer comes
into the story. After its rejection
by the Russians, the President
decided —apparently against the
advice of officials on the spot —
to send the food to Western
Germany, in the hope that
churches and charitable organisa-
tions would get it across. The
churches, worried about the
propagandist implications and
anxious for their legal welfare-
work in Eastern Germany, de-
clined, but the food was at any
rate to be put at the Federal
Government’s disposal. Only
when the distribution from local
stocks had started and turned out
to attract far greater crowds than
expected did the Government
decide to use the American food
to refill the Berlin reserves and
keep the action going.
“The Berlin food action in its
actual form was thus not
planned by the U.S. Govern-
ment, it was not planned in that
manner and on that scale by
anybody. A German and an
American project, separate in
origin, were fused into one great
action by an unexpected third
factor —the tremendous response
from the East German people.
“Every time that these people
have been given a chance of
coming into contact with the
West, not only for material aid,
but for any sort of meeting, their
response has been overwhelming
—and it has been the same again.
And though the hundreds of
thousands who have come from
all over the zone and are still
coming are truly hungry, there is
in their coming, despite all
counter-propaganda, a conscious
political demonstration as well:
going for food to the West has
become a symbol of belonging
together with the West.”
Dire TV
Britain’s Assistant Postmaster-
General, David Gammans,
speaking :
“Some people seem to forget
that the primary aim of television
is to interest and entertain and
not to be a sort of glorified
night-school.
“The most astounding assump-
tion is that television itself,
whether State-run or competitive,
may be a dangerous thing and
could demoralise the British
character. We are being asked
to believe that a nation which
has emerged triumphant from
two world wars and has
pioneered every movement for
liberty all over the world is in
danger of perdition because it
lacks the character for its people
to drag themselves away from a
television-screen.
“If children spend too much
time looking at television the
answer is not a banning of tele-
vision for the whole community
but a little more parental disci-
pline.”
Dragnet Disgest
Emulation. London
“Economist” notes a resem-
blance: “The Americans, so like
the 19th-century British in this
respect, have in this century
acquired a passionate respect for
nationalism in small nations
which do not threaten America’s
own security.”
4 •
Pidgin.— Sir Frank Fox in a
London “Times” letter- ’ “The
fussiness of the United Nations
trusteeship [in demanding the
banning of pidgin English] may
be contrasted with the recent
declaration of another United
Nations committee which cited
Papuan administration as a
model for all the world in dealing
with backward races (this in spite
of no veto on pidgin English).
Such fussiness is hostile to real
progress in racial affairs. A good
maxim of English common law
is ‘that it is not concerned with
trifles.’ The Papuans, free to
shape for themselves a suitable
life, need not speak pure
English.”
History, Soviet Style.
Moscow having produced a new
“history” of the Communist
party in which only Lenin and
Stalin appear by name, “New
York Tffnes” comments; “No
one figure or faction has yet
gained mastery, hence the need
for the present ambiguous and
obviously penultimate ‘history.’
When one man has finally
vanquished all his rivals then the
‘definitive’ history will be written
and the world will be told how
this new figure, whoever he may
be, accomplished all, knew all
and foresaw all.” ’
Men Still Count. —Push-button
warfare, that former Canberra
mirage, hasn’t had much support
from Korea, where experience
(as a New York “Herald
Tribune” correspondent puts it)
strongly suggests that “war to-
day, as at the dawn of history,
is still basically a matter of the
fighting man, primarily the fight-
ing infantryman. The gadgets
may enormously enhance the
individual infantryman’s powers;
but whereas the Chinese seemed
to manage pretty well at times
with lots of infantry and no
gadgets, we could not possibly
have done anything with more
gadgets but no infantry.”
Vital Sea-power. —A “New
York Times” listing of lessons
learnt in Korea includes a new
understanding of the importance
of sea-power for supplying over-
seas operations. About 700,000
tons a month of supplies were
moved into Korea by ship,
whereas air transport, although
used on a lavish scale, moved
only about 60,000 tons in a year
from Japan to Korea, and 3000
tons a month from the U.S. to
the Far East.
Beria’s Exit. —To the countless
“explanations” of Beria’s fall
from grace can be added that of
Paris “Le Figaro”; “Beria
succumbed because he concen-
trated and used too much power.
He ended by frightening his own
colleagues in the Politburo. They
were so determined not to let
themselves be tyrannised by a
new Stalin, even a second-rate
one, that they eliminated his
chance of doing harm. It is no
more nor less than that.”
Retreat of Mars. —The signs
of wavering loyalty among
Russia’s satellites mean (in
“U.S. News and World Report’s”
reading) that a clear shift in the
balance of power has taken place
in Europe: “The concept of 175
Russian divisions, plus 60 or
more satellite divisions, march-
ing westward has always
frightened Europe. Now it seems
clear that the satellite armies
will not march, may even fight
the Russians instead. World
war, started by Russia, seems
less likely than ever.”
Big Four. —Though the Krem-
lin issued its customary blast of
abuse at the proposals for a
Foreign Ministers’ conference,
it remains (in London “Time
and Tide’s” view) only too ready
for a meeting: “The days when
the Soviet Union was ablef*
haughtily to decline to attend
any international conferences,
except on terms entirely accept-
able to herself and utterly un-
acceptable to anyone else except
her vassals, are gone, although
they were so recently with us.
Now Russia’s leaders are ex-
tremely anxious to attend a
Four-Power conference at the
earliest possible moment and
that, moreover, on terms which,
on the face of them, are pre-
cisely those which the West has
demanded for some time past.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
recouped because, although a rent de-
crease is dated back to time of applica-
tion, a rent increase is invariably dated
from date of determination, w
The State Government has since
repealed the Local Government Act
amendment permitting subdivision of
these homes on the ground that property-
owners had not taken advantages of the
opportunities provided.
Rent-controls have also tied up accom-
modation in another way.
Since present-day wages and salaries
are so high compared with pre-war
salaries, and pre-war rents so high com-
pared with present-day rents, many young
people who formerly lived at home with
their parents today occupy flats and
cottages on their own —flats particularly.
They have remained in possession after
their parents have died or moved else-
where.
Under those conditions there is no in-
centive for investors to build homes to
rent. Elderly people who would much
prefer to let their excess accommodation
dare not, because they are not prepared
to risk the peace and quiet of their de-
clining years through tenants who, once
in occupation, could in many ways inter-
fere with the comfort of their landlords
and do so with impunity, knowing that
they would be safe from eviction.
Immediate release of rent- and tenancy-
controls on accommodation in new con-
struction, modified dwellings or any other
class made available for letting for
the first time would be a safe way to
start on the removal of controls and the
redistribution of dwelling-space. Why
the Government declines to make such
a move is hard to understand, because it
has nothing to lose. Present tenants
would remain protected, and owners of
the newly-released accommodation would
get for it no more than tenants could
afford to pay—and the rents demanded
by the Housing Commission indicate that
the average tenant can afford to pay con-
siderably more than most private pro-
perty-owners are permitted to demand.
More than that, increased availability
of accommodation would go some way
to eliminate the evil of key-money and
would certainly improve the chances of
those people who have been trying for
years to recover possession of their
premises for their own occupation.
One thing is certain—unless some
decisive move is made soon the larger
part of the community will be living in
single rooms or “temporary” dwellings,
because the family homes will have passed
into the possession of single occupants or
become the specialty of the key-money
racketeers. — Cave (N.S.W.).
Churchill and Leonardo
Can’t agree with “Ek Bum’s” summing-
up in favor of Churchill as regards the re-
spective all-round merits of the British
Prime Minister and Leonardo da Vinci
(B. 19/8/’53).
Leonardo was a creative genius—
painter, sculptor, architect, musician,
scientist and inventor. Churchill prob-
ably also earns the name genius, but he
is essentially the man-of-action —author
and orator admittedly, though not a
creative writer. Only in his painting, of
which it is too early yet to adjudge its
final value, may he be so described.
Churchill is a remarkable man, worthy
representative in a long line of able British
Homes
The N. S. Wales Housing Commission
is noted more for the high cost of its
homes and its high rents than for its
efficiency in providing “homes for the
people.” With everything in its favor it
has never done better than one home to
every four built by private enterprise,
although it has acquired building land in
almost every suburb of Sydney, these
including Killara,
In view of the commission’s expressed
purpose of providing homes for people
who can’t afford to look after themselves
in that regard, it seems proper to ask why
it holds land in that expensive suburb.
Any person who can afford to live
there shouldn’t need to have a home
provided for him by the Government.
Moreover, the kind of home that must
be put up in that class of suburb would
cost as much as three in other suburbs.
The only legitimate function of the com-
mission is that of providing cheap homes
quickly.
The most interesting thing about the
N. S. Wales housing situation, however,
is that the density of population to hous-
ing is not less favorable today than it was
at the 1933 census—slightly better in
fact. That census revealed that 4.33
persons lived in each occupied dwelling.
At the 1947 census the figure was down
to 3.99, while the present position is esti-
mated pretty accurately at about four per
dwelling.
Why then is there still such a demand
for accommodation, and why are so many
family units living under appalling con-
ditions?
Obviously the distribution of accommo-
dation has become sadly unbalanced, and,
against the overcrowding in some homes,
many others are underoccupied.
That situation was recognised by the
amendment —later repealed—to the
N.S.W. Local Government Act to provide
local authorities with power to permit
the subdivision of dwellings into multiple
self-contained units. With that amend-
ment the N. S. Wales Government an-
nounced that it had done its part towards
making much accommodation available,
and that it was up to the owners of
such property to do the rest.
At the time, real-estate interests pointed
out that the Government had done only
half a job—that permission to alter or
remodel their premises was not sufficient
to encourage people to do so while the
Landlord and Tenant Act remained un-
changed. But the Government wouldn’t
listen. A hundred times it has been
pointed out that people will not take
steps to become landlords to tenants
over whom they have absolutely no
control in return for a rental that,
although termed “fair,” may not be
adequate to compensate for financial
outlay and expenses.
True, there is provision for adjustment
of rents either through the Rent Con-
troller or the Fair Rents Boards, but
the operations of those authorities lose
much time and money that cannot be
"D' yer find it more complicated than th’ didgeridoo ?”
statesmen. But statesmen and soldiers,
though geniuses in their own sphere,
cannot rightly be compared with the great
masters of the various arts—novelists,
composers, sculptors, etc. No com-
parison should be attempted.
The inherent difference between
Churchill and Leonardo was pinpointed
several years ago by a Bulletin writer
—“F.S.,” I think. Comparing Beethoven
and Hitler, he said Beethoven was an
“extraordinary” man while Hitler was
an “extraordinary ordinary” man.
While X hate to mention Churchill in
the same breath as Hitler and Stalin, all
three must undoubtedly be placed in the
“extraordinary ordinary” category,
'fteNvi
\osm<ks
“Cheating!”
Creative geniuses like Beethoven and
Leonardo are reserved for the “extra-
ordinary” class.
Incidentally, a link between Churchill
and Leonardo is the tank. Leonardo in-
vented a primitive tank, and of course
Churchill was mainly responsible for
Britain’s turning to tanks in 1915-16. —
Keima (Q.),
Migrant Hostels
Much has been written about hostels
here for migrants (B. 12/8/’53), but no
one has mentioned conditions in similar
institutions in Britain. These cater for
agricultural workers who get special
allowances of meat, eggs and cheese, so
the food is better than in city hostels.
I spent about a year in them just lately.
They were Nissen-huts used as dormi-
tories, holding six men to the room with
one coke fire, one table and a chair each.
Apart from a locker each there was no
other furniture. There was only one
washroom for the camp, not a single
bath and no provision for laundering
clothing except wash-basins. Lavatories
were built without doors or curtains.
There was no privacy at all.
Most of the cooking was dreadful —
gruesome porridge and a sausage for
breakfast, and an evening meal of lumpy
mashed potatoes, a few beans and a
little gravy, with a sweet of varying
quality. Lunch consisted of two sand-
wiches (four rounds of bread), one of
cheese and the other either of paste or
raspberry jam.
Sunday dinner was excellent.
For this we paid 395. a week. After
paying that we had a clear £3 3s. for 48
hours’ work. That would go no further
than it would here, but that’s a different
story.
, I’m not complaining, but when I hear
all the fuss about the hostels here I
often think of just how they compare
with the ones back in Britain for similar
types of people.—J. J. A. (Vic.).
The Ruling Class
In Australia we have long since passed
the warning stage of “Lqok when
the civil servant ceases to be civil.”
Additional powers, without responsi-
bility to the people, have since Federa-
tion led to the growth of a domineering
and arrogant bureaucracy which, more
and more, is challenging Parliamentary
government.
Press and public alike are not fully
aware that their real rulers are the depart-
mental heads and their hordes of hire-
lings. Should a conscientious Minister
inquire too closely into inefficiency or
miscarriage of justice, he will be opposed
by the united bureaucratic machine —by
files deliberately lost or mislaid, by buck-
passing, by simulated ignorance and even
by dumb insolence. If he persists in his
pursuit of the offender he will be subject
to whispering campaigns and lobbying
for his removal.
In its early growth, the “public ser-
vice” attracted the less brilliant of Aus-
tralia’s sons, who, for the sake of per-
manency and security, were prepared to
subordinate themselves to a mediocre
existence under the petty tyrannies of
section and department heads. Each year,
however, as the parasitic growth increases,
more and more producers, artisans, pro-
fessional folk and small-businessmen
bow to the inevitable and seek sanctuary
in the ranks of the bureaucracy. Despite
the warnings of economists, the over-
burden will increase, for no Government
is powerful enough to arrest its progress.
If only the various parties would combine
to combat this threat! Culling could
commence at once, simply by ceasing to
fill redundant positions made vacant by
retirement.
Australia supports one government
employee in every four wage- and salary-
earners. New Zealand has one in six,
the United Kingdom one in 12, and
the U.S.A. one in 15.— Centurion
(N.S.W.).
Migrants
Australia may need “migrants from all
European countries” (B. 12/8/’53), but
it is most unlikely that she will get them
in quantity from countries like Sweden,
Norway, Denmark, Belgium, Spain or
Switzerland. People leave their home-
lands in number and settle on foreign
soil mainly for military or economic
reasons; the countries named are too
nationally virile and economically stable
for the natives to bother their heads
about distant fields.
Precisely the reverse conditions inspire
Balts, Germans, Poles, Dutchmen,
Italians (and Britons) to migrate to Aus-
tralia. I doubt if one “skilled British
workman” in a thousand tears himself
up by the roots in a so-called spirit of
adventure; he breaks “with the life he
has grown up to love in his grumbling
British way” simply because he fears for
the future of himself and his family at
home. This same motive and no other
moves thousands of Southern Europeans
in our and other attractive directions.
Agreed that the average contemporary
British migrant forsakes better condi-
tions on the whole than the average
European, but while thousands of Aus-
tralians remain without homes it is un-
reasonable that we should provide new
arrivals with better temporary accom-
modation than the hostel and/or com-
munity-camp type. As for the fuss which
figured in the British Press about Com-
monwealth migrant hostels, little or no
mention was made of the fact that much
of the noise was caused by people who
objected to eviction for non-payment of
rent.
We should forget the sentimental
notion that migrants shake the dust of
their native lands from their shoes from
general choice —they do so because home-
sweet-home has become more-or-less un-
tenable and they expect to find a new
and fuller life in more prosperous regions.
That the small minority expect too much
too soon and consequently are loud in
complaint is both unfortunate and human,
but most New Australians with whom 1
have yarned have expressed unmistakable
joy at being here, transitory difficulties
notwithstanding. —P. O. MacCabe
(N.S.W.).


Eggs, etc.
According to my radio, the C.5.1.R.0.
has promised Australian housewives that
a substitute for eggs will be on the market
in a big way within a year or so. A
substitute for eggs! In Australia! But,
of course, eggs are now fivepence-
ha’penny apiece,
A few years ago my cake-making
missus was not a bit abashed if the recipe
called for “6 eggs, 11b. butter,” etc.
Today the best-thumbed page in the
cookery book is headed “Poor Man’s
Cake” —one egg and dripping, or maybe
marg. A few years ago the cocky’s wife
made her pin-money out of eggs;
brought them into town on the weekly
trip and sold them to the storekeeper at
the day’s price. If there happened to
be a glut, she might accept as little as
sixpence a dozen —better than throwing
them out. Then the townees could buy
a few dozen cheap to put down in water-
glass. Today the cocky’s wife daren’t
sell an egg unless she is registered with
the Egg Board, and the townee pays
sixpence apiece, or largely does without.
Is this our vaunted “standard of
living,” when one of the humblest of the
fruits of the earth is board-priced out of
reach. And it isn’t only eggs! A shirt
which cost thirty-bob was once seven-
and-a-kick; a bit of steak five-bob, a
pair of boots three-quid—all necessary
things, not luxuries.
To be sure, we all have more pound-
notes on payday, more refrigerators,
washing-machines, radios, motor-cars —
and, by heck, we need them to compen-
sate ,us for the simple things we have
organised, boarded, arbitrated and
awarded ourselves out of.— Sad Chook
(N.S.W.).
Elizabethan England
To refute “DJ.K.’s” picture of Eliza-
bethan England (B. 1/7/’53) as “a free-
dom-loving and anti-Socialist country,”
“A.8.C.” writes (B. 29/7/’53) that the
England of Elizabeth I’s reign was “really
a Socialistic economy based on an elabo-
rate system of controls.” Using R. H.
Tawney as his authority, he states that the
Tudor Privy Councils maintained the
ideal of stability above progress.
“A.B.C.’s” picture certainly is the more
economically and politically correct until
he suddenly damns the era as based on
tyranny and “ruled by a plutocracy of
the newly rich,” to which misleading
conclusion he fetches, as support,
Tawney’s near-right argument that the
procedure of the form of government
then existing was to apply paternal
pressure, “at once restrictive and pro-
tective,” upon class relationships and to
suppress afi movements which were likely
to affect the established order.
“A.B.C.’s” turn of thought immediately
highlights the accurate part of “D.J.K.’s”
argument: That sixteenth-century Eng-
land was “freedom-loving.” It was so ;
but in a manner different from more
modem ideas of freedom, for concep-
tions of freedom differ according to en-
vironment. Nineteenth-century “free-
dom,” for example, which embodied un-
restricted competition, would not neces-
sarily have been suited to Elizabethan
times; it would, in fact, have been re-
garded with suspicion, and perhaps
horror, by the sixteenth-century English-
man, in whom tradition had bred a sincere
respect for some method of control. That
tradition was the historic workability,
stemming from the Middle Ages, of the
village courts, which regulated agriculture,
the craft guilds, which regulated industry,
and the merchant guilds, which regulated
commerce.
Elizabethan England was a mercantilist
State, inherited from a communal con-
sciousness which conceded that a man’s
economic life was open to supervision
when such an order contributed to the
general good. E. Lipson argues, giving
historical evidence, that at the time of
Elizabeth I, although individualism (or
private enterprise) was already beginning
to assert itself, public opinion “was not
yet prepared for the abandonment of the
old order.” So the authorities, for the
“restrictive and protective” purposes to
which Tawney refers, imposed mercan-
tilist legislation and assumed wider re-
sponsibilities on a national scale. This
was, virtually, a planned economy; or,
as we would call it today, Socialism, with
its concomitant feature of nationalisa-
tion.
There were evil aspects to this form of
government, but it contained virtues, too,
which not only acted favorably on the
average individual Englishman and im-
bued in him the sense of security he
traditionally valued, without preventing
him from advancing gradually, as he was
doing, towards newer habits of economic
thinking; but which, as well, did not by
any means discourage national progress.
We may be sure the age which became
immemorial for its vision, its adventur-
ousness, its literature, its vitality, could
never have supported, or been supported
by, an economy that eschewed freedom,
or permitted a damaging tyranny. The
reign of Elizabeth 1 supplies one of the
most convincing historical arguments I
know of for the efficacy of planned
economy and for its flexibility if it is
judiciously enforced.
Unfortunately, modern Labor Govern-
ments seem to have incorporated too
many of the abuses of that long-ago first
Socialistic Government in their policies
and their nationalisation schemes, with-
out alleviating or justifying their methods
with a sanity of thought that the lessons
of the past should have taught them.
England’s rejection of the Attlee Govern-
ment largely proves this, especially when
we recall that Englishmen welcomed a
Socialistic Government as the only kind
that could reinstate the nation after the
inimical effect of World War II on the
country’s economy. Had our present-day
so-called planned economies been applied
to the Elizabethan era, one cannot help
thinking that the Armada would have
won.—D. H. R. (Q.).
Wool and Synthetics
Most of the schemes put forward to
defend Australian woolgrowers against
the gradual expansion of synthetics in-
volve a fairly substantial contribution by
the Government.
Yet I can’t remember reading of any
manufacturer of synthetic materials
approaching his Government for assist-
ance either in British or foreign countries.
Why shouldn’t the Australian wool in-
dustry fight its own war against
synthetics?
The only real solution, of course, is
to reduce the price of raw wool so that
it competes with the synthetic materials.
That could be done without Government
assistance, if woolgrowers simply did
away with the present auction system
and adopted standard prices for various
grades of wool. Naturally, few wool-
growers would be prepared to forgo the
current high prices, but the present
system gives every incentive to the
chemical manufacturers to produce a
cheaper material. If the price of wool
were reduced to compete with synthetics,
the superior qualities of wool would do
the rest. — A. J. Beeney (N.S.W.).
Butter-Margarine
Australian dairy interests and the
Government must have read with some
concern the report that the U.S.A.
Government has a surplus of fifty million
pounds of butter on its hands.
It may be ominous that the same page
carried an elaborate advertisement from
a firm obviously spending thousands of
pounds to push the sales of table-mar-
garine, with startling inferences of its
advantages over butter.
I have also just seen another advertise-
ment for a well-known brand of table-
margarine claiming that 60 per cent, of
the total butter market had been captured
by margarine-manufacturers in America.
There’s a warning here for Australian
dairymen.—T. S. (N.S.W.).
“Say what you like —our constable's keen."
Labor and the Land
The Queensland Labor Government
has announced its intention of winding-
up preference for ex-servicemen in land
ballots. Lands Minister Foley has given
two reasons: (1) The rejection by the
Federal Government of a Queensland
proposal to allow that State to transfer
from a principal to an agent State in land-
settlement, and (2) restricted loan funds.
Queensland has had several offers by
the present Federal Government to be-
come an agent State in land-settlement
and has flatly refused the lot. On June
25 last year Mr.- Foley, tilting at the
deputy Liberal leader in the State
House for advocating State agency in
land-settlement, declared: “From the
financial angle this may have some
advantages, but it could mean forfeiting
to the Commonwealth the State’s birth-
right in the land .... it was hard to
believe Mr. Morris was sincere in advocat-
“Mr. Sneed , no alterations on the premises !”
ing Commonwealth control from
Canberra of land-settlement in Queens-
land.”
This is how Queensland has fared on
allocation by the Loan Council since
1946:
£
1946- 3,364,000
1947- 6,692,000
1948- 8,655,000
1949- 7,844,000
1950- 17,026,000
1951- .. .. .'. 22,500,000
1952- 25,480,000
Even conceding that the purchasing
power of the pound has deteriorated
since 1946, it is nonsense for Mr. Foley
to attribute “loan-fund restrictions” as
a reason for depriving ex-servicemen of
preference in Queensland land ballots.
Of the three States (N. S. Wales, Victoria
and Queensland) which elected to remain
principals in land-settlement, Queens-
land has been miserable in the extreme
in allocating loan funds for settling ex-
servicemen on the land.
This table, showing the percentage of
loan funds allocated by the principal
States for land-settlement purposes, brings
Queensland “Labor’s” miserableness into
contemptible relief:
N.S.W. Vic. Qld.
1946- .. 8.5 45.8 v 2.1
1947- .. 12.5 65.0 1.6
1948- .. 27.7 27.7 1.9
1949- .. 14.7 32.5 3.2
1950- .. 11.2 17.0 2.7
1951- .. 6.2 10.0 1.6
1952-53 .. 2.8 7.2 2.6
Is it any wonder that only 741 ex-
servicemen have been settled on the land
in Queensland since the end of the war?
Preference in land ballots was not de-
manded by ex-servicemen. It was given
by an allegedly grateful Government.
Now it is to be wiped out by an un-
doubtedly thankless Labor Government.
—D.J.K. (Q.).
Wheat
Frank Norris, in his novel The Pit,
published at the turn of the century,
gave a graphic description of the quick-
silver quality of the wheat market and
its ability to change overnight from a
level of stability and high prices to a
state of glutted silos and ruined specu-
lators. The novel was set in Chicago,
and despite international wheat agree-
ments and similar mechanisms, the
Chicago Board of Trade Building, other-
wise “the Pit,” still sets the international
wheat market.
It was disturbing news for Australian
growers recently when cables from
America detailed sudden and steep falls
in the Chicago price, almost coincident
with the reratification of the International
Wheat Agreement, and during the very
week when the Queensland and Victorian
Governments were quoted as refusing to
agree to a local stabilisation scheme pro-
viding a guaranteed home price of 15s.
a bushel.
With their industry’s price-structure
falling about their ears, it is im-
possible not to feel sorry for Australian
wheatgrowers, who have been character-
ised, nonetheless, over the past seven
years by a faith in State control and a
natural desire to grab the last farthing for
their wheat.
When the question of stabilisation was
put to them by ballot the majority voted
for it. They also supported the Inter-
national Wheat Agreement.
They are likely to find local stabilisa-
tion and international price guarantees
worthless agreements not worth the paper
they are written on."
Britain, for instance, refused to renew
the international agreement, and it will
be interesting to see how many of the
consuming countries that did sign will
meet their obligations when the agree-
ment price is points above the open-
market price.
If one can judge by the statements of
their spokesmen, the wheatgrowers are
as unreal and selfish on the brink of
disaster as they were when post-war con-
ditions forced the price of their product
to unprecedented heights.
W. R. Scilley, the trump of the N. S.
Wales Farmers and Settlers’ Associa-
tion, was quoted as supporting the local
guarantee-scheme with a plea that it
would entail an increase of “only a
shilling” in the basic wage, which the
hard-pressed Federal Government is try-
ing to stabilise.
The same organisation, now seeking a
blank-cheque subsidy from the public
in this strain, was urging last year that all
forms of grower subsidies of the public
were unjust and morally wrong.
In a nutshell, the Australian growers’
attitude over recent years has been to
seek stabilisation, with all the Socialistic
tags that necessarily accompany it, and
the enjoyment of ruling overseas prices as
well.
As things have worked out, they may
very soon be on the open market, whether
they like it or not, at a period when prices
are falling sharply.
There appears little likelihood of the
price dropping to anything like the pre-
war level (a little over 3s. a bushel), but
on their own admission it is costing Aus-
tralian growers approximately 12s. 6d.
a bushel to grow wheat.
Instead of pleading for more controls,
as they are doing, the best thing farmers
can do is think of ways and means of re-
ducing costs so that, should the price fall
further, they will still be able to grow
wheat at a profit.
The oft-repeated threat that farmers
won’t grow wheat if the price doesn’t
suit them just won’t wash. When wheat
reached its all-time low in 1931, less
than 2s, a bushel, there was a record
crop not exceeded until 1945-46 season.
—Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).


HTS
LYS
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
- ■ ■ '■
’
M.
Ml
•I
S*-
M
mi
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd
Reg d Office & Works, BlackwaU Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
"IYS AGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE
netting
Bulldozer Work
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Good work has
been done clearing virgin land
with bulldozers using four-ton
balls on steel chains, but use of
the ’dozer in renovating worked-
out farms is probably more im-
portant.
A farmer near Maryborough
(Q.), C. T. Griggs, has brought
unproductive areas of a 1500-
acre dairying and grazing block
back into production with a
’dozer, and says he has now lost
his fear of droughts.
Griggs first cleared his
property in 1912, and cropped,
theij grassed for grazing. But
the pasture became overgrown
with wild shrubs and made use-
less.
About 18 months ago Griggs
engaged a contractor with a bull-
dozer and the brush was pushed
out, piled into rows and burnt.
The land was ploughed, then
sown with Soudan-grass and
milo, and a pasture-mix of
Rhodes-grass and blue-prairie-
grass. The grasses had a good
hold by the time the crops were
taken off, and now there is a
high body of good grazing.
Griggs believes the £ 1500-
cost of clearing is money well
st?ent. He has bought a bull-
dozer of his own to continue
clearing and renovation work,
and says every large property
should have one.
Transplanting Trees
“Breck”; When transplant-
ing trees Of any size to new
sites make all preparations in
advance so that the roots will
be exposed to the air for the
minimum amount of time.
Have the new hole ready. If
it’s dug to a square shape roots
will creep to the edges of it and
escape into the outer soil.
Round holes can become water-
logged and make the roots pot-
bound. When removing earth
from the hole keep the top-soil
on one side of it and the bottom-
'ike of the hole depends on
age and species. Where the tree
is a surface-rooter the hole
should be wide; where it has a
tap-root ‘ l ~s h, ?l lli „f b ! a t| !i “ b
fstta®gh°dowVposition ea
layer of old, rotting leaves or
old horse-manure can be placed
in the bottom. Do not use fresh
organic manures or poultry
droppings.
When removing the tree mark
out a square about 3ft. from
the stem and dig the spade
straight down into the soil, cut-
ting cleanly through the smaller
roots. Lever the mass up on to
a sack, leaving as much earth
as possible about the roots. Be-
fore placing in the hole measure
the size of the root-area to piake
sure the roots will not be
cramped and estimate the depth
at which the tree should be
placed in the hole. The right
position is slightly below earth-
level. In most cases some of
the bottom-soil should be re-
turned to the hole before the
tree is placed in it. Compact the
soil firmly but not tightly and
water well.
Trees of any size suffer from
shock when being moved. For
this reason fortnightly watering
is advisable for some months.
Deciduous trees should be
moved before the end of the
winter ; evergreens in spring. In
either case, a fairly heavy prun-
ing can be given first.
Pastures as Crops
“H”: Pasture crops are far
more complex than ordinary
cereals. Their productivity and
length of life depend on species,
climatic environment, soil-
fertility and grazing technique.
They provide animal food, give
the soil a chance to renew its
richness, control weed-growth
and prevent soil-erosion.
On the poorer soils of high-
rainfall areas, pastures should
precede cropping. It’s a good
plan when thinking of intro-
ducing new species to go straight
ahead with them in high-rainfall
areas. With lower rainfall it s
best to preserve the more
successful natural species, these
being best suited to the environ-
the pasture will m
*e native state, and to is not
suited to heavy stoetang. Most
soils have utsuffi g
P siiner. is necessary to
supply phosphorus, sulphur and
calcium; by stimulating legum-
inous plants it also indirectly
supplies nitrogen.
Overstocking in early years
of a pasture causes more failures
than anything else, as it results
in lowered drought-resistance
and prevents root-expansion.
Don’t sow too many species
together in one mixture. Two
(a grass and a legume) and
rarely more than three are
proving the most satisfactory.
Nitrogen for Oats
“Avena”: Rather crude
methods are followed in some
tableland regions of N.S.W. for
growing oats. There is little or
no preparation of seed-bed,
frequently the seed is broadcast
and ploughed in. But little seed-
bed preparation is done in
establishing oats for grazing on
wheat-stubble land.
There could be good reasons
for such practices in wheat
country where the land has been
well fertilised. But on cold
tablelands nitrifying organisms
in the soil behave like cold-
blooded animals they like
their long winter sleep. So
crops like oats, especially after
maize, are greatly starved for
pitrogen.
The value of nitrogen fertil-
ising for better late-autumn and
early-spring growth, if not for
winter growth in grasses and
cereals, on high and cold country
is well recognised in most other
countries, but is hardly known
in Australia.
Tlcky Dogs
“Hux”: Dogs with tick-
paralysis , should be taken off
solid food and should not be
allowed water in quantities;
lapped up by the partially
paralysed dog the water may get
to the lungs and cause
pneumonia. To reduce thirst,
occasionally drip a small tea-
spoon of water into the side of
the mouth.
Anti-tick serum is saving
canine lives. When it is not avail-
able mix a teaspoon of bi-
carbonate of soda in a small cup
of boiling water, and, when luke-
warm, give the dog a teaspoon
every hour at the side of the
mouth. This should cause vomit-
ing of yellow mucus and
should be continued until the
mucus is clear in color;
expelled in this way the poison
does not pass through the
intestines.
Dogs down with tick-paralysis
need night-and-day nursing.
They should be warmly rugged.
They should not be given food
till they ask for it. Convalescents
need special feeding and resting ;
worked too soon they will
develop heart trouble.
Antibiotics
“Outback”: The use of
aureomycin has differing effects
on adult and young ruminants,
and the few results available
suggest it may be of benefit to
calves or lambs but not to older
animals. An experiment with
the drug, which is being largely
used as a growth-stimulant for
pigs and fowls, is described by
A. W. Turner and V. Elizabeth
Hodgetts in the Australian
“Journal of Agricultural Re-
search.”
Adult Merinos were given
large doses by mouth, and it was
found that ruminal digestion
was depressed considerably,
while the bacterial count in the
rumen fell by 75 per cent, two
hours after administration.
The experiment was made to
obtain information on drought-
feeding of sheep, and the above
first effects were followed by
lessened appetite and loss of
weight for some weeks. Ruminal
“See you on the Way back — I'm in a hurry."
fluid and yeast extract restored
the appetites and arrested loss
of weight.
Other results suggest that
young ruminants are unharmed
by similar doses. The reason
for this may be differences in
the digestive systems. Young
ruminants are less dependent on
ruminal fermentation for syn-
thesis of proteins and vitamins
and digestion of carbohydrates.
Dahlias
“H.N.S.”: Seventeen of the
23 new varieties of dahlias
tested in the N.S.W. Royal Agri-
cultural Society’s trial plot at
Sydney Showground have been
certified as suitable for com-
mercial production. Certificates
indicating the merit of the plants
have been issued to the growers
following comprehensive tests
made by experts.
The new Varieties were in full
bloom during the 1953 Sydney
Royal Show, but the tests began
from the time the plants were
put in the ground late in 1952.
Between planting - time and
show, peculiarities of the plants
were studied five times to deter-
mine suitability for use by home-
gardeners and commercial
growers.
Stem-gall Fly
“Sparks”; Sceptical grins
appeared in northern N.S.W.
when a local newspaper reported
that the stem-gall fly had
apparently spread from Queens-
land across the border into the
Tweed district. General opinion
was that the insect had been
helped on its way by interested
people who popped across the
border and decamped with a
couple of infected bushes apiece.
It’s only a short run across the
border to Queensland’s Numin-
bah Valley, where the fly has
been released to attack crofton-
weed, and it’s a big temptation
to would-be poachers.
However, the Queensland and
N.S.W. Governments have
stopped arguing, and Queens-
land is to receive £5OO from
N.S.W. towards the cost of get-
ting the fly over from Hawaii,
so it will soon be released
officially in northern N.S.W. and
put to work on crofton-weed.
Experts have warned farmers
not to expect results overnight,
and suggest that it may be two
years or more before the fly
begins to show appreciable
results on crofton-weed infesta-
tion. The fly will not attack
the small species of crofton-
weed.
Mulches and Composts
“Wilco”: Though mulches
are very handy in the garden,
they don’t make cultivation
unnecessary everywhere. “Com-
posto,” who has not dug his
beds for years, cannot have very
heavy soil, nor can his district
be subject to heavy downpours.
My black N.Q. soils gradually
pack from overhead watering
despite a good thick mulch of
scrub leaves. About once a
week I have to rake the mulch
away and loosen up the top-soil.
When a crop is finished I turn
as much of the mulch as pos-
sible under the ground and put
down a fresh mulch when the
new crop is established.
Deep digging; is done to open
up the soil to rain, and to let
the roots of the crop spread
freely. Cut out deep cultivation
in areas of heavy rainfall and
your soil would be bashed as
hard as a brick and then all the
water would run off. You
wouldn’t have enough moisture
in your beds to tide you over
the following drought.
Mulching slows up soil-pack-
ing, but it doesn’t prevent it
where soils are heavy and rain-
fall plentiful. But if you don’t,
or can’t, mulch under such con-
ditions the only method of sav-
ing moisture and keeping the
plants going is to work the beds
after each rain.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The weather reaction following the development of
sunspots was rather mixed, with not as much ram as was
expected. The rain was not as widespread as Crohamhurst
anticipated. The position at the moment is that Sep-
tember rains are indicated to follow the unusual cold ot
AugUSt.


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
f
HYCEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage «M
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
g
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
- -DISTRIBUTORS : ———
N.S.W.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator 00. (S.A.), 229 a Rundle
St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE; British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
E
OPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL" PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5f ins. x 3i ins.,
68 x 3§ and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
dfg
Samples and Prices
on application .
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty.
Ltd.
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
804 - 306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
76Ibs.
mm
m*
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers*
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAQNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Aljr.ed S. White; A. O. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
’Phone; BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
No matter
how much
' y ••
tj- H .
mtati u
p9U+ BA&if
/>oA JBtfM
Mffetuou"
before.,
do not
give up
hope
m
mm:
THESE PALE BLUE PILLS
(now, for the first time, available in Australia)
will bring YOU the relief
you seek
For
ailments
of the
rheumatic
Group
. . . There is '
no substitute
rf
RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA
FIBROSITIS
LUMBAGO
GOUT and swollen
or inflamed joints
for this genuine English treatment which
relieves pain, reduces inflammation and swell-
ing, and brings complete freedom of move-
ment back again.
IT IS ECONOMICAL, GUARANTEED
HARMLESS, AND THOROUGHLY
RELIABLE IN EVEN THE
MOST OBSTINATE
CASES.
COLCHV&
From your chemist
17/6
Small
Size
30/-
Large
Economy
including valu-
able food chart
The Targe Econ-
omy Size is a
complete treat-
ment with reserve.
• If you have any
difficulty in obtain-
ing supplies, write to
the Sole Australian
Distributors,
Bickard Medical
Products Pty. Ttd.
21 Oxford Street,
Sydney.
‘v.
M
Mint-weed
“Agric”: C.5.1.R.0. investi-
gations have shown that Rhodes-
grass is superior to blue-grass as
a competitor with mint-weed.
Rhodes-grass, however, is un-
able to reach its maximum de-
velopment unless the soil-fertility
status with regard to nitrogen is
high.
Spraying tests with M.C.P.A.
gave control of mint-weed and
resulted in increased yields of
French-millet and grain-sorg-
hum ; M.C.P.A. at 11b. per acre
gave best results. The work
was done by W. J. Bisset, at
Lawes (QJ, and he is of the
opinion that control of mint-
weed might be assisted by ferti-
lising with nitrogen and sulphur
in conjunction with competition
from crops or Rhodes-grass pas-
tures. There is, however, an
inference that a good deal more
research work is necessary be-
fore scientists can claim to be
able to control mint-weed.
Elephant-grass
“Pennisetum”: Elephant-
grass, widely grown in South
Africa as Napier-fodder—a re-
serve feed in periods of short-
age—is managed by a realistic
approach and treatment there.
An abundant-producing grass,
the aim is to maintain its growth.
It is grown in wide rows, with
a leguminous crop like cow-
peas sown each year between
the rows.
This system not only gives
more balanced and nutritious
feed if required in summer, but
also makes the grass more pro-
ductive.
Coastal dairyfarmers in
N.S.W. put it to the severe test
of planting it in odd corners of
the poorest soil on the farm and
then neglecting it. Because of
its yellow, starved appearance
under these conditions, they
have long since “given elephant-
grass away,” and still suffer
shortage of feed.
Freemartins
“Spes”: Freemartins in cattle,
twins of two sexes, a bull and a
heifer, means that the heifer is
only a proposition for the
butcher and is best sold as a
vealer.
When she grows up she has
a “staggy” look, and this de-
tracts from her buying value.
The female breeding-passage is
never fully developed, and
there’s a total absence of ovaries.
The reason for this lack of
development is that when the
calves are still within their
mother the bull calf grows faster
than the heifer and the hormones
that are produced within the
bull affect the heifer calf as
indicated.
Merino Register
“R. Ney”; The first complete
Australian stud-Merino flock-
register since 1948 has been pub-
lished by the N.S.W. Sheep-
breeders’ Association on behalf
of all Merino breeders. It con-
tains the first compreheiisive
revision of Merino flocks since
the first volume was printed in
1922. A new system of entries
has reduced the size of the
register without eliminating
essential details.
The new register lists 1777
flocks and 1083 histories. His-
tories of discontinued flocks
have not been included. There
was an increase of 177 flocks in
1952, the largest for any one
year. The new register gives
details of ownership changes,
and sets out the large increase in
registration of Victorian Merino
studs. Some founded as far
back as 1830 are now included.
Dairy Herd Test
“Mr.”: Largest number of
cows ever tested by the Vic-
torian Department of Agricul-
ture in its annual trial for pure-
bred cows (8886) gave an
average yield of 3001 b. of butter-
fat (for 273 days) or 61b. below
last year’s figure and 601 b. lower
than the 1940 record average.
No fewer than 244 cows yielded
5001 b. of butterfat or more, 39
produced 6001 b. and eight more
than 7001 b.
The champion herd, 36
Jerseys owned by J. A. Till,
Tongala, averaged 4941 b. (18
mature cows in this herd
averaged 5281 b.). Reserve went
to last year’s winner, H. Jackson,
Lockington, whose 23 Jerseys
produced 4901 b, The champion
cow, a seven-year-old Jersey,
Windrest Rosemary, fielded by
Dr. A. R. Haywood, Bittern,
produced 8231 b., her 14,1711 b.
of milk testing 5.81 per cent.
Rosemary has aggregated
38691 b. of butterfat in six
lactations.
Bees and D.D.T.
“Springy”: Spraying of fruit-
trees or garden flowers shouldn’t
be done during blossoming, the
only period of the year when it
can affect bees. There is the
risk that a soluble poison which
has dried upon leaf or bud will
be brought back into solution in
a heavy dew or raindrops. A
bee might drink from such
sources, but it prefers clean
water. Accustoming bees to
drink from a clean and .shel-
tered water-supply would reduce
this risk.
An apiarist’s lament against
D.D.T. is the imagined calamity
that the beneficial parasites and
predators which prey upon horti-
cultural pests would become
extinct. They suffer, doubtless,
and where the spray has been
used red-spider tends to increase,
but generally they are dependent
on the supply of pests, and if
these are eliminated the wanted
guests become needless and their
numbers must decrease. In any
case, insect pests are normally
much less active and far more
localised than their enemies, who
come from far and wide when
the hunting is good, and to sug-
gest that the balance of nature is
threatened by D.D.T. is ridicu-
lous.
Hints for the Farm
“Big Billy”: Now is the time
to sow asparagus, rhubarb and
herbs. Sow in drills about an
inch deep in good friable soil,
the seeds about 2in. apart. Lift
asparagus seedlings (without
thinning) next May or June.
Thin out rhubarb to 12in. apart
when the plants are a few inches
high.
“C.A.A.”: September is a
good month to plant nursery-
raised eucalypts, especially
where little or no water is avail-
able. In such dry areas dig
over and fallow the soil for at
least 3ft. or 4ft. round each
planting site to conserve as much
of the spring rains as possible. If
this is done and a good mulch
of straw or sawdust placed deep
enough to suppress weeds —
about 4in. —the plantings will
survive without applied water.
If possible, however, give each
tree a kerosene-tinful of water
each month during summer.
“Sundowner”: Guile is some-
times needed to get piglets to
feed well from the creep at an
early stage. Shutting the sow out
and leaving the litter in the creep
area for an hour or two is a
good method, and dry meatmeal
or pellets made of meatmeal and
fat are useful in getting piglets
started.
“Ben Acre”: It is very handy
to know how one of your sheep-
pens compares in size with a
railway sheep-van or a motor-
transport, so that you can easily
estimate how many sheep to have
ready for trucking or transport.
The small pen, say a quarter-
truck, is the most accurate.
“Deejay”: Feed the sow a
moderate hot bran-mash for a
couple of days before and after
farrowing. It helps to clean the
sow, aids easier birth and
stimulates the milk-flow.
“D.J.H.”: To mend a nail-
hole in galvanised-iron place the
groove oyer a 2in. pipe and
gently tap a lead-shot (type used
for air-guns) into it until it
flattens out, like a rivet, and
seals the hole.
“Mr.”; Bloat can be prevented
by feeding hay in the holding-
yard after milking; if it’s fed
out in the paddock cattle tend
to ignore it in favor of the
spring-growing grasses and
clovers. Clover dominance can
be avoided by good grazing
management. A fairly widely-
spaced rotation will give the
grasses a chance to re-establish
themselves before the next
grazing.
“M.”; Plant reaction to acid
varies widely: a highly-acid soil
is required for potato, tomato,
parsley and strawberry; a
moderately - acid soil for
pumpkin, melon, bean, carroty
kohlrabi and turnip; a fairly
alkaline soil for lettuce, cabbage,
broccoli, cauliflower, sweet-corn
and egg-plant; definitely alka-
line soil for asparagus, celery,
onion and parsnip.
PROSPECTS GOOD
Every sign that can be studied
indicates a strong future
demand for wool, and par-
ticularly for well-classed wool.
To get the best possible return
From his sheep every farmer
who does his own classing
should have “The Bulletin”
Wool Type Card as a guide.
Send 7s. 6d. for one now.


chair, eating a pie. “ ’Day, Stan.
Take a seat.”
“Thanks, Stan.”
“Had a good day, Stan?”
“Rotten, Stan. The zoo
again.”
“Mein Gott! The elephant
has croup, I suppose?”
“No. Chimpanzees.”
She resisted the urge to tell
Roma what she had done ; she
would only try to persuade her
to go and get her copy back
again before it was too late. She
sighed and frowned and put her
feet up among a cluster of damp
galley-proofs on the corner of
the table.
She finished her beef-roll and
made a tentative bite at the
squashed cake-thing, but gave it
up with a shudder.
“I have to help old Myfanwy
this afternoon.”
“P’raps you’ll get a golf
match.”
“No. It’ll be the annual
general meeting of the Women’s
Christian Temperance Union, or
Saturday-weddings.”
“Well, cheer up. You look
as if you were going to bite
someone.”
“No, but really, Stan! They’re
always moaning that space is
tight, and then look at the stuff
they waste the space on! Comic-
strips and bathing beauties,
horse-racing and football, social
notes and animal stories! God,
I wish I were a- police-rounds-
man or a war-correspondent or
something.”
“Heaven forbid!”
“At least death is real,” said
Molly hollowly.
“Never mind, perhaps the
chimpanzees will die of their
croup.”
Molly dropped the front two
legs of her chair to the floor
with a bang. Her red hair
seemed to send out sparks of
determination. “If they don’t
give me a good story soon I’ll
—l’ll make one! I’ll rob the
art gallery, or something.”
“Yes, Stan ; but, if you don’t
mind, I’ve got an awful lot to
do, and I’m due to make up a
couple of pages in half an hour
99
“Oh, don’t let me keep you
from your important work with
my childish prattle.”
Slightly offended, Molly
dropped her paper bag into the
basket and wandered down the
corridor to the dingy washroom,
then back through the compos-
ing-room, where the monsters’
arms were working with a new
urgency. There was a hot smell
of metal.
IN the Social-room there was
a pleasantly un-office atmos-
phere. Sun slanted in through
the windows afnd on to a cane
chair and a faded carpet, and
turned the smoke from the
editress’s cigarette, held in a
long holder, between her promi-
nent teeth, into a wreath of blue
incense. From the wireless in
the Sporting-room next door
came a tinkle of music, and an
occasional flow of profanity
from the reporters waiting for
the next race. (Their room was
known, for this reason, as the
B-hive.)
“Hullo, dear,” said Myfanwy
with false geniality. “It’s a
blessing you could come in to-
day when Helen’s not here.”
She wore a mannish shirt and
tie and a tailored skirt. Her
voice was deep and masculine.
She picked up a sheaf of ink-
written forms and carried them
over to the other table. “Here
you are, dear. You can get on
with these weddings for Satur-
day.”
Molly ground her teeth and
began typing: “Magnolia-satin
cut on princess lines.... flaring
at the knee.... lace tulle
... .orange - blossom... .bride’s
mother a sheaf of gladioli
in autumn tonings.” Dazedly
she made her way through
the pile of satin and lace,
matrons - of - honor, little
flowefgirls and silver horse-
shoes. All this, she thought, I
have to go through all this
because a lot of dull people are
going to bed together on Satur-
day night to beget a lot more
dull people. Yet exciting things
are happening everywhere . . .
She banged out the last wed-
ding with relief. The bride-
groom’s mother was dead, she
noted with satisfaction ; that was
one female the less to describe.
A faint trembling roar had
become noticeable, a vibration
in the walls and floor that was
not caused by traffic. The first
edition was coming off the press.
Her heart began to pound, her
blood to roar in her ears loader
than the great machines down-
stairs. She forced herself to sit
still until an office-boy dropped
a newly-folded paper, smelling
magically of still-wet ink, in
front of her. With a muttered
excuse to Myfanwy she grabbed
it and made for the women’s
room.
There, locked safely in the
lavatory, she unfolded the
paper. She looked briefly and
disgustedly at the item about
the chimpanzees, featured with
a picture on the front page, and
then turned to the main news
page.
There was her story, with a
large headline:
Sir George Martinet Gives £5O
to Boy Scouts
Governor’s Generous Patronage
WITH a smile of triumph she
read it through. It sounded
convincing enough; now the
Bish. only had to get in late
and copy her story for tomor-
row’s “Register,” and everyone
would believe it.
She lurked in the lavatory for
some time, but at last the sus-
pense was too much; better
come out and face the music, if
there was to be any. She went
back to the Social-room and
wrote blocklines for pictures of
beaming brides, but all the time
her heart fluttered painfully, for
every step she expected to be
that of a boy to summon her:
“Miss Crompton, the editor
wishes to‘see you at once.”
But the afternoon passed away
peacefully in a maze of Social
Notes. The roar and tremble
started again; it was the second
edition coming off the press.
She went out and got a copy;
there was the story just the
same, though moved lower down
the page. Feeling an urge to
boast, she went round to Rita’s
room, but though the light
burned like eternity, there was
no one there. She went up to
the roof and leaned over the
parapet. Trams groaned up the
hill, steam hissed from the rail-
way-station in a silver cloud.
An engine gave a short, shrill
pipe like a startled bird.
She leaned out far enough to
see the flag flying on top of
Government House, signifying
that his Excellency was in resi-
dence. Let’s hope he’s out, she
thought, and doesn’t see the
paper until late tonight. If not,
she could imagine what his lady
might be saying to him at this
moment.
“So you can’t afford to buy
me a new fur cape for the recep-
tion, yet you can give fifty
pounds away just like that ... I
could understand if it was to
the Girl Guides, they have a
very attractive Commissioner
this year ...”
TypEXT morning, for once, she
was up early and reading the
daily paper long before break-
fast. Good old Bish! Exactly
the same story, in slightly dif-
ferent words.
Governor’s £5O Gift to Scouts,
she read. There was no doubt
if you told a big enough lie
often enough ... H.E. could
hardly contradict it now, with-
out looking mean and foolish.
She arrived at the office early,
with her hat on. Howard
affected to fall beneath the
newspaper files in a fit. “Ye
gods! She is early! Did you
stay up all night, or how did
you do it, child?”
“Ass! I got up to read the
paper.”
The signing-copy of yester-
day’s paper came round, and
complacently she signed the
Scout story with big black
initials. A boy approached to
summon her to the Chief.
She came blithely into his
room, smugly conscious of hav-
ing read the “Register” from
cover to cover, as every good
reporter should.
“Ah, Molly.” The Chief took
the cigarette out of his mouth
and- actually looked at her, his
vague grey eyes concentrated for
once.
“That was a good scoop about
His Ex. and the donation.
Should be a follow-up in that
this morning wonder the
‘Register’ didn’t hop on to it.
Ring up the Boy Scouts’ Asso-
ciation and see what they pro-
pose to do with the money; get
a comment on the unexpected
generosity of the Governor —
that angle, will you?”
“I certainly will,” said Molly.
“With pleasure.”
“Oh, and Molly”
“Yes?” She turned back, with
a fluttering pulse. He was going
to ask her out to lunch at last!
“ —Keep it brief, will you?
Space is tight as hell.”
after he had been chosen to
succeed Phillip as Governor of
New South Wales. His voyage
out in the leaky little Reliance
was no picnic; his short and
stormy and somewhat inept
Governorship even less so. And
he was no doubt, despite his
protests, glad to return to the
command of a 74 of the Line,
which presently piled herself up
on the English shore near
Paignton—again without blame
to himself. Hers was the fourth
shipwreck in which he had been
involved.
His work in N. S. Wales had
contributed to the knowledge of
the flora and fauna and explora-
tion of the colony, though he
exaggerated considerably when
he wrote: “I have travel’d with
a gun on my shoulder through
all parts yet known of the in-
terior.” After he had come back
to England he had a part in per-
suading the Home Government
to support the scheme of his erst-
while bitter enemy, John Mac-
arthur, for producing fine wool
in the Cowpastures, which he
had been the first Governor to
visit. His late days were marked
by his continued interest in the
colony, but were spent in relative
poverty, the main basis of his
subsistence being his Governor’s
pension of £3OO a year. But to
the last he remained active and
inventive, producing in 1809
plans for a lifeboat which antici-
pated modern designs.
He died on March 31, 1821,
an old bachelor, weatherbeaten
and tired and half-forgotten by
his contemporaries. And though
the Hunter River and Hunter’s
Hill and Hunter-street bear his
name it is strange that Sydney
Harbor has no other memorial of
the man who fixed its latitude
and longitude on the map, was
in the first boat to enter it,
supervised the first soundings
made in it and printed the first
picture of the town.
real history ever composed by
man ”:
Here was something new in
Israel’s literary career: so far as
rvvri’ S rt e i’s flr^st°bor OUS PrOSe -
This glimmer of glory, very
distantly reflected, seems to be
about all that’s left for Solomon,
Even the famed temple was
“motivated by political con-
siderations,” its architecture,
furnishings, cultic symbolism and
ritual “more Phoenician
(Canaanite) and Syrian than
Hebrew.” Still at least legend
has stuck to him, in which he
has something of a (drop on
Jamie of England (ex-Scotland),
no favorite either of history or
of fiction, though Jamie did
foster the greatest of all trans-
lations, the translators inscribing
to him as its begetter their still-
supreme King James Version.
In all, the old original Book
—patchwork product of the
’genius of Israel and the
missionising inspirations of the
earliest Christians—has been
rendered into well over 1000
languages, in each rendering
subject to the same sorts of
errors of omission and commis-
sion, imposed upon it by human
fallibility, which dogged its
evolutionary construction in the
first place. It is, for instance,
here recorded of the New Testa-
ment compilation that, no
original manuscripts but only
conies of them having survived,
no two of the copies agree com-
pletely, and there are thousands
of such surviving copies. Of
these: “Every manuscript in
existence differs from any other
specific manuscript in a large
number of passages.” In one
printing of New Testament
variations the listing required
893 pages; in all some 45,000
different readings!
Before this, of course, the Old
Testament had been literally
pieced together, subject in even
a greater degree to human change
and human error; fragments
from one source mixed with
those from another, mere
marginal notes merged by
mistake into the texts, lines left
out in copying, parts agreeable
to an earlier outlook made to
conform with the later prevailing
outlook and sentiment. And
then, when the early Christians
came to take over this religious
heritage as their own, still more
and more change wrought as
they in turn mafle it to some
extent conform to their later
outlook, the changing being
always of the Old Testament to
conform with the New, never the
other way about.
And then, finally, as the most
extraordinary part of this strange
phenomenon of the development
of the Book, the incorporating
together of the two so widely dis-
similar parts as at once the great
literary masterpiece and the
religious foundation of
Christendom.
In all the vast range of human
annals there is no story so
strange as that of the making
of the Book.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 241
Across
I—The Atlantic Charter guaranteed
these from seed scattered. (8)
4—Motivates a spirit with a con-
spicuous feature of Llewellyn.
(6)
10— Vampire to have a hand. (3)
11 — Did you expectorate behind time
like a spade? (9)
13 — My Australian bounder is at
first capacious. (5)
14 — Bom. (3) •
15 — Bruised a ginger nigger? (5, 3,4)
16 — A light carriage high up over the
stage catch to an outfielding base-
baller. (3)
17— Opera by Berg is a hum-dmger;
a bobby-dazzler, half a Hawaiian
city. (4) .
18— Bills from seedy, peevish people.
(7)
24 Pulled away and married the rest
inside. (7)
25 A little taste of a liquid reversing
the address of the Leaning
Tower. (4) , _ , .
26 Barker put on by the affected to
follow. (3) ...
28—Bill comes after dessert, and its
a blooming nuisance. (5, 7)
30—Gipsy Rose turning, fish. (3)
32 —Baba twice suggests the plea that
you were elsewhere at the time
of the crime. (5)
33 Balkan com up to the mark in
style with regard to government
by two. (9) .
34 — Wickedness or wilderness wherein
the Israelites sojourned. (3)
35 Take on in French fruit. (6)
36 — Boy measures hoisting ropes. (8)
Down
1 — Rissole is clearly not out of
plaice with a dance. (4-4)
2 It can be rubbed out, but it
declares age black. (8)
3 Alcoholics Synonymous. (6)
5 Tents rearranged to make me
square. (8)
6 Black to be up on a broken
bone. (4)
7 Thrash a girl with a thin plate
or scale, while the crippled have
everything up . with them. (7)
8 — Vision is not assisted by it, but
you are canonised just the same.
9 Boy for seasoning. (4)
12—One disentangles these relatives.
(7)
19 — Cape in which you keep Grant s
opponent from victory. (7)
20— Sketch fish talking with affected
slowness. (8)
21 — Completer angler to go around
in this. (8)
22 Drake is supposed to be m one
of these while a discredited actor
slings off. (8)
23—Egyptian drain a swamp the
wrong way for a tapestry family
sprite swallowing the East. (7)
27 —Bustle and confusion is like mink
about 50. (6)
29 — Nelson in a whirl. (4)
30— EEEEEEE. (4)
31 — Fish slings unshipped. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 240


V"/,
1
<1
■w
\\s~&
-
%
m
m
//
W
-MOM
v-
RIES
MADE IN HYPLATE AND STANDARD TYPES
with Improved plates and separators designed to incorporate latest overseas developments
for cars, trucks, tractors, earthmoving equipment, motor cycles, radio and home lighting by
CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY COMPANY LIMITED, Birmingham Street, Alexandria. N.S.W.
New South Wales:
Century Storage Battery Co. Ltd., Birmingham
St., Alexandria.
Smith Sons & Rees Limited, 30-32 Wentworth
Ave., Sydney, •
Bradley Bros. Ltd., 55-59 Wentworth Avenue,
Sydney.
Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broadway, Sydney.
Industrial Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd.,
Parramatta Road, Lidcombe.
Lower Riverina:
Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 5 i 5 Kiewa St..
Albury,
DISTRIBUTED IN AUSTRALIA BY:—
Queensland:
P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty., 123
Charlotte St., Brisbane.
Samuel Allen & Sons Ltd., Townsville,
Wyper Bros. Limited, Bundaberg.
Advanx Tyre & Motor Service, 61 Sheridan St.,
Cairns.
Lawrence Motor Company, Bolsover St., Rock-
hampton.
Corser & Co. Pty. Ltd., Ellena St., Mary-
borough.
Gympie Machinery & Electrical Coy., Mary St.,
Gympie.
Jas. Croker & Co., Mackay.
Victoria:
Century Storage Battery Co. Pty. Ltd., Macaulay
Rd., North Melbourne.
South Australia:
Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd., 15 Ackland St.,
Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd., 22 Stirling St., Perth.
Tasmania:
C. C. Boag. 158 Collins St., Hobart; T. & G.
Building, Launceston.
North Australia:
Allen Bros, (Darwin) Pty. Ltd., Darwin.
WHEN YOU THINK BATTERIES THINK CENTURY


._.'.-.. '.Jr’ .?■■
ff N
fbl^
■>
**" ;i i \ ' • ::: v. i"-.; ■ ; : | W:2/ \<2i
< r ■ ~ eF\v^
•) r “3 * > >,• \y i
'■}■■■'' .■.■■22
•■■■■ ~A:AA
> N. *.
' */. , Av '/lv'
• s< y.f . ■
. > /fv i;;
*/*
cr*
m
'.v? i l '
ivru
s*§»t
»*.«<*.•••
ti«p...
<3^'
r-i:h
s* r
v
-V'U
..»
:;; ,1
esSr
' I'-AS
a«£:
s'
£3*
=**
r vi
Efc:
j^vst
Vr[ Ijg
i I
\l < ;
\\ *&**
\ •--.
sr^vr
i»y>>' ' £■;
'• y>r
i •> /4riJ/%y
' r" > W f
'i y-r. ; •• ,*
•Hi iu-.w
*'**■
j J&'Z
£es - •'
PRODUCTS OF EXPERIENCED
DESIGNERS & MAKERS
MARS IOK/ii All Geared
Head, S.S. & Sc. Lathe
Gap bed, hollow spindle, available to 12 ft. centres. Built to Schlesinger limits of
accuracy. Manufactured of Meehanite castings produced in Mars laboratory controlled
Meehanite Foundry.
EARLY AND IMMEDIATE DELIVERIES FROM CONTINUOUS SCHEDULES
dfg
MARS tGfun.
SHAPER
This is an ideal all-
purpose shaping
machine with a wide
operational range.
Designed to cut key
ways in long shafts.
Guaranteed accuracy.
IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY
THE “MARS”
GEAR DIVISION
Provides prompt service.
Gears completely manufac-
tured or your own blanks
generated by Sutherland,
Fellows, Robbing or Glea-
son Bevel processes.
Makers of the
greatest range
of machine tools
In the Southern
Hemisphere
m
m*
fd
MARS
HIGH SPEED
PLANER
6' x 2' 6" capacity
Automatic feeds
Ideal general purpose
planer. Castings of
heavy sections are of
robust design.
MEEHANITE
(Regd. Trade Mark)
CASTINGS '
All castings are produced
in the Mars Foundry under
supervision of ,hig h 1 y
trained metallurgical and
laboratory staffs, WE
MANUFACTURE ALL
GRADES of MEEHANITE
IRONS,
THE MARS No. 4
UNIVERSAL MILLING MACHINE
A fine and modern milling machine with guaranteed accuracy and outstanding qua-
lity. Rapid Power Traverse all movements. Wide range of speeds and feeds. Built in
electrics. Schlesinger standards of accuracy. Complete with all accessories.
Distributors in all States
W.A.; The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth. S.A.: W. H. Butler & Co, 134 Waymoiith Street,
Adelaide. Vic.: Herbert Osborne Pty. Ltd., 567-569 Little Bonrke St., Melbourne. N.S.W.: Herbert
Osbourne Pty. Ltd, 109 Oxford St, Sydney. QLD.: Mars Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd. TAS.:
Perkins Pty. Ltd, 345 Collins St, Hobart. INDIA: (Bombay Province) R. S. Mehta & Co, Ah Chrs,
Port Bombay. PHILIPPINES: The Earnshaws Dock & Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
••V'M
; /y* £i;
s**r<
\% M
»\
&#/ &
bv<‘
'if-i \
v - 4 ::
•*
.5%«3 3\ Vl
”■'•*.r /
K. (| . y ./- _>:>
*%. Sl #
> ;f|
,
*' p
«# ftl
Vi
&i\
,/* f
\,*sr
l#i|
r -r
V: ; A
"■w ,
»hf.
:i s?*
MSPC machine tool
IMlilllJ Manufactg. Co. Pty. Ltd
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
