

sdf
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or business
associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings, anni-
versaries and all celebrations. From stocks in their
Bondon cellars, the House of Seppelt can arrange im~
mediate deliveries of their products to any address in
Great Britain. Your nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons
Btd. will supply details of this service. Orders for de-
livery in Great Britain before Christmas must be placed
before 16th November.
THE HOUSE OF SEPPEL-T
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box 233 E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE; Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE: Box 64, G.P.O.
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
“THE MANLY ART,” by JOHN FOUNTAIN
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3848
Wednesday, November 11, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
MANSION OF THE DUKES OF BEAUFORT, BADMINTON HOUSE
"COR two and a half centuries Badminton has been the seat of the Dukes
F of Beaufort. This great mansion built in 1682, and inc ° r P“f j g
of an earlier building, stands in rolling, wooded country at the southe
end of the Cotswold Hills in Gloucestershire. Its immense park, ten m
in circumference, is renowned for its trees, some of the oaks Being
largest in England.
Tree-planting was a hobby of the first Duke and an engraving of 1707
shows great avenues radiating from the house; evidence of his work is seen
todav in the main avenue, which is three miles long and is lined on each
ride by magnificent beech trees. Beneath the trees in the month of May are
01 bll,ebe " s which “ partic “ larly ab " ndant r ° ve
S™ide°?s Church—both of S whS me of
Jh c p a ,i ad ian style of architecture. The church contains ducal monuments and
fb e tomb of Lord Raglan of Crimean War fame, who died in 1855. The
church gtai retains jts oI(J “horse-box” pews with doors and the unusual
three-decker pulpit still has its sounding-board above it.
xhe treasures of Badminton House include carvings by Gibbons
and many paintings by famous artists. Frequently visited by
great mansion was the home of Queen Mary dunng the a
Badminton has given its name to a popular game, to a sporting . ,
London dub and a species of claret-cup.Badm.nton «
SbWSdSS AT be pTnfVco' a b KS’3SXS?


The Red Page
LEON GELLERT'S SKETCHES
In spite of his protestations, a little
book of Leon Gellert’s sketches seems to
have wormed its way out of John Fairfax
and Sons Pty., Ltd.— Week After Week,
decorated by Clem Seale, Granny’s top-
drawer. To be decorated by Mr. Seale is
to have a fine line added to a most careful
effort to draw precisely what is in the
text, a rare pleasure for a writer.
This collection includes “Visiting the
Sick,” about the nonagenarian who cata-
logued bird-calls through an ear-trumpet,
one of those tiiumphs of careless rapture
that Mr. Gellert imparted to the
"Herald’s” Saturday-page before he was
sentenced to the Saturday literary causerie
and the Sunday domestic-sketch.
The week-after-week domestic sketch,
of which the rest of the book mainly
consists, is a set-form of journalism; it
seems easy enough at a beginning, but is
likely enough to send its practitioner to
a booby-hatch if persisted-in: to find-
something to write about; to make it
look like an insight into your home-life
while fighting off the objections of your
friends and relatives; to avoid being
taken-in by yourself . . .
An English critic wrote severely about
it, as the last refuge of the essay, and
requiring the cultivation of a “fake-
personality”—though we have come these
days to disregard many of the moral
objections of the literary psychologists of
the 'twenties ... we have escaped from
the fear of escapism, and come to realise
that it is next to impossible to put down
a personality in writing that does not
become, by that act, faked.
If one mentions these difficulties it is
to show how Mr. Gellert has dealt with
them. He is least known for his finest
contribution to Australian writing, the
songs and sonnets of The Isle of San,
ocked away from the public in a 240-copy
edition in collectors’ libraries ; in these
he became the first Australian to wreck
the fake-personality of the poet of those
days, substituting real thought, with it
half-tones, inglorious angers, indecision
and secret revenges. If he painted the
picture a little too black, that merely
proves what we have been saying; tha
the complete truth is not in us.
So that when such a practitioner is
chained to the treadmill of weekly domes-
ticity, knowing that any obvious infrac-
tion of its traditional charm will be
fiercely resented by his Literary Editor
(Mr. Leon Gellert), we need not be sur-
prised to find, among the dutiful refer-
ences to “A Certain Party,” the flower-
growing, the handyman exercises anc
the comic cultivation of “Our Mr. Bailey,’
a sophisticated and often acerbitous tone
and an occasional startling kick over the
traces.
The first essay, about the day spent
wandering about a country-club, which
in the last line turns out to be a nudist-
colony, is a case in point; that admirable
social-study, “The Bissets Passed By,”
of the reputable suburbanite who swore
at his loving wife and regularly threw
her out the front door, is another; so
is the sympathetic but scientifically-
detached study of a Peeping Tom (“The
Face at the Window”)—and one remem-
bers, but cannot find here, a superfine
anecdote of the author’s being a guest-
in-the-shower and slapped playfully by
his hostess and told to hurry up, Fatty,
because breakfast was ready—why is that
not in?
The best of them have* the air of at
least partial truth: the affair of the sup-
posedly indecent picture-show party at
the Bovrils’, for example (“The Tyranny
of Blackmail”); they suggest tfie back-
ground of a secure and pleasurably mis-
spent life. These days, one may as well
read about it. Long may Mr. Gellert's
memories flourish.
One can also get pleasure from such
essays as that on Bert, the much-bandaged
hero of the medical-companion, and the
devastating essay on “Free Insurance”
which, if one remembers rightly, coin-
cided with an offer of insurance to sub-
scribers of the Sydney “Telegraph” ; but
for the many pieces devoted to Otto and
Archie, the dachshunds, or, as one of
their author's characters said, “dash-
hounds, or, as one reader puts it,
hounds,” nothing can be said. Every
strong man has his weak spot; some
revel in the off-key squeal of daughters’
beautiful wives; -others in the beauty of
their clever old bags: if Mr. Gellert’s
weakness is two stretched mongs, his
the head of each sketch they slink into.
Bush and Desert
The jagged strength and intimate
observation of almost any of Roland
Robinson’s verses —those on the gymea
or giant-lily, for example;
Sudden, the lowrys’ scream:
a blue and crimson flash,
sears across this dream,
chills all my timid flesh.
The rocks are split apart
with flame, where burns the spear-
tall lily at the heart
of darkness: the Gymea.
will serve to indicate the special niche
this writer is cutting for himself in Aus-
tralian poetry, as a profoundly sensitive
interpreter of the bush and the desert.
Robinson’s latest set of nature-poems,
most of which were first printed in The
Bulletin, are published in Tumult of
the Swans (Edwards and Shaw ; Lyrebird
Writers); and it is undoubtedly by this
book, because of its force and a tighter
technical discipline, that after several
previous “slim volumes” he makes his
most serious claim to consideration.
His technical resources remain of the
slightest. At times, making a preposition
such as “before” bear the weight of a
rhyme and struggling with obvious diffi-
culty from word to word and rhyme to
rhyme, he gives the impression of hang-
ing on to poetry by his teeth, a$ it were,
almost losing his grip altogether, like a
climber on a cliff;
The mates are greeted and farewelled. I leave
the sprawling camp in cold sharp starlight, take
the road again; in widening daylight grieve
to see the ribband of its bitumen make
perspective in between the rows of bare
black crosses hung with looping lines before
the burnt-red coming day.
But at least there is no fluff, nothing
facile in this kind of writing. The very
difficulty which he has in putting his
words and rhymes together enforces a
rigid discipline. He says exactly what
he wants to say and not a word more;
he writes with the economy of absolute
and final sincerity; and since he sees the
things of the bush clearly, intensely, in
the light of strong personal emotion
which does not distort but sharpens their
natural being, his bareness has the strong
and often beautiful simplicity of this
poem on the rock-lily:
The rock-lily’s pale spray,
like sunlight, halts ray way
up through the unpierced hush
of birdless blue-grey bush.
The rocks crouch on their knees
in earth, torsos of trees
and limb-boughs lead up where
the cliff-face scales the air.
Out from you, rock, my friend,
I lean and, reaching, bend
the scentless pale spray back
to me and see the black
spots in each orchid-flower.
O, my love, what power
keeps you curled and bound?
Tormented, the earth’s round
begins again. What rock
holds you where you lock
yourself from me? Alone
this spray breaks from the stone.
Nobody who has ever climbed dowh
a New South Wales coastal gully could
doubt the authenticity of that description,
nor of the many other bush-poems with
their apparitions of lyrebirds, wallabies,
waratahs and hyacinth-orchids ; and the
same is true of his poems of the desert
where the dingo_.at night howls his “silver
thin desire,” where the quail-thrush
“cries again its crystal word,” and where
in the heat of noon he sees the desert-
oak :
Painted on glazed deeps of sky,
in your shade’s black pool you stand,
tall dark tribesman, desert-oak:
singer of the .burning sand.
Tumult of the Swans, then, is a fine
book for anyone who cares for the bush
or the desert. But of course a mere
camera can bring us the rock-lily or the
dingo. Beyond the pictures of the bush
we must look, in nature-poetry, for the
poet’s personal vision.
It is the intense, troubled emotion that
gives these verses their final force. They
are all on the one note, of desperate
struggle through grief to new life; a
mood so deeply felt that even the rock-
wallaby becomes a mass of mountain
rock leaping in a shape of terror, while
the quail and the dingo are images of
loneliness, and the rock-lily a symbol at
once of lost love and of tranquillity
perilously achieved. It is a narrow book ;
but it runs deep.
More Wine
In his new little pamphlet-book. What's
What About Wine (Georgian House),
Walter James summarises for the be-
ginner the main points of his Wine in
Australia, listing the wines available to
the simple drinker who goes to a bottle-
department to take a bottle home.
Though whether anyone “off the street,”
as they say in the wholesale business,
could get a bottle of Granfiesta sherry
for the asking is another matter. Maybe
a Sydney citizen could breast the counter
and have handed to him a bottle of Mount
Pleasant still red wine ; but I don’t know
where, let alone the bottle of Henry II
by the same people—l was told not to
say who I got it from. A year or so
ago I was all over Sydney trying to get
a Yalumba claret 1 had grown fond
of; but they had stopped importing it
from South Australia. It’s enough to
send a man to the bottle —which in my
case is the demijohn of general-duty red
wine; when you are too poor to deal
in dozens, you eventually get tired of
chasing all over town for the right bottle.
Mr. James does advert, in this pamphlet,
to a grievance I missed from his monu-
mental treatise when reviewing it; that
is, “bottle-variation” ; the fact that: -
In older winegrowing countries, the wine
in two bottles will be found to vary even
though the label is the same. This is called
bottle-variation, but it is to be feared that
in Australia the variation is sometimes just
a little too pronounced.
That’s putting it mild ! But in finding
reasons for it, he says a few words that
will warm the hearts of all buyers-by-
the-bottle:
Another source of variation lies with the
retailers, too many of whom never drink
wine and will not bother to understand
it; the unfortunate wine is made to stand
upright until the cork is as dry as a bit of
old parmesan, it is displayed in stuffy win-
dows heated by neon lights and the sun in
all its splendor, it is stored on the base-
ment floor alongside the kerosene and
phenyle. Unhappily, our legislators appear
to have taken the view that so long as
you’re not a commo and have never been
in jail for very long at a stretch there is
no particular reason why you should not
have a licence to sell the most delicate and
conservative of liquors. When we get wine-
merchants in the English tradition we will
get much more reliable wines.
But it is an old complaint, and heard
most strongly from Paris itself, in Villon’s
“Ballade Joyeuse des Taverniers” 11461):
May the swabs have their giblets tickled
with a Turkish arrow and a sharp sword;
may Greek fire scorch their thatch and a
great tempest scatter their brains; may their
carrion bodies hang from the high gibbet,
and may they die swiftly of the gout; I
demand and pray also that they be prodded
with red-hot iron bars and flayed alive by
ten hangmen, boiled in oil in the morning
and torn apart by four ramping great
horses: the taverners who hocus our good
wine.
For such bottle-buyers as find this does
not adequately express them, there are
two more stanzas and an envoi in D. B.
Wyndham Lewis’s biography of the poet.
—S’./ILLIAM.
An Eric Baume Novel
Though his surprising autobiography
circulated in Australia and he has since
published other books abroad. The Mortal
Sin of Father Grossard (Angus and
Robertson) is the first novel by Eric
Baume which this reviewer has seen for
many years—since the colorful if rather
lush days of Half-Caste and Burnt Sugar.
It is a pleasant, almost a distinguished,
return from journalism to the kind of
writing we officially recognise as fiction.
A “novel” is hardly the correct term for
it. It is very short, though more than a
long short-story; properly what is called
the conte, a pleasing form in its com-
pactness at any time and appropriate for
The Mortal Sin since the story is set in
France, where so many novelists from
Maupassant to Simenon have written at
this length of from 30,000 to 40,000 words.
Except in its swiftness and clear move-
ment The Mortal Sin isn’t at all like a
Simenon story ; which is just as well —one
wearies of a continual dish of dregs,
served merely for the flavor of dregs. On
the other hand, if the comparison isn’t too
august, it is quite like a Maupassant story,
like an episode from Chevallier, like a
chapter from Edwin Serio’s That Capri
Air which contains a somewhat similar
comedy about a mix-up of graves ; and
with this estimable Gallic or Continental
flavor it has also more than a dash of
the slickness and sentimentality of such
popular war-time fantasies as Gallico’s
The Snow-Goose and, particularly, the
damper “miracles” of Ben Hecht.
It is about an American spinster named
Malvina Smith whose lifelong friend
named Louise Hines dies and leaves her
all her money. Louise also leaves, some-
where in France, the grave of her son
Byron who has been killed in the recent
war; and Malvina decides, for reasons
plausible enough but not very deeply
entered into, to adopt the name of Mrs.
Hines, to adopt the dead airman as her
own son, arid to visit his grave in France.
This takes her into the rustic seclusion
of the Dordogne district in the south,
which the publishers tell us Mr. Baume
visited as a war correspondent; and this
is where his book becomes good—in the
picture of the rich and earthy life of the
village of La Perige, hardly touched by
the war, where the upright British major.
blinded after the First World War, lives
in the boardinghouse of the widow’ Fun-
nier, eating her loving cooking but un-
aware of its significance; where the
Communist Bidoux argues furiously but
without real rancor with Mayor Haon,
who manages his estaminet and his muni-
cipal affairs considerably more capably
than the English tongue when he tries to
welcome Malvina —“Madame Heen, to
ze wine we shall fly. March we! ” ; where
the soldiers can swear with a rare fluency
and vigor—“By the sacred bleeding sweet-
breads of seventeen Spanish cows” ; where
amongst other temptations to bewilder
the fictitious American mother are served
delicious prunes soaked in raw alcohol;
and where the priest. Father Grossard’,
has been a soldier in the artillery and
can be, on occasion, very much a man
of the world.
But Eric Baume slips far from the
Chevallier standard in his understanding
of Father Grossard, whose tearful twinges
of conscience for possibly having com-
mitted a “mortal sin” are very much ex-
aggerated. (What the father has done,
the U.S. authorities having misinformed
Malvina and there being no American
airman buried at La Perige, is to put up
a cross in memory of Byron Hines over
the grave of some unknown derelict, the
monument eventually becoming a kind of
national shrine.) Nor is there anything
of the ironic detachment of Maupassant
—but rather the deliberate sentimentality
of Ben Hecht’s Miracle in the Rain —in
the heavy laying-on of patriotic and
maternal emotion in the midst of the
comedy of errors.
Nevertheless the writer manages very
well in balancing his comedy and his
sentiment, so that a story which could be
painful or macabre always remains
pleasant ;■ and his handling both of dia-
logue and the machinery of his plot sug-
gests that if he is not content with writing
for the American magazines he might do
well with comedy for the stage.
For Children
The Boom- rang Books: Longmans.
These books, initiated by the Primary
Schools Advisory Curriculum Board of
the S.A. Education Dept., and edited by
Enid Moodie Heddle, are a considerable
advance on the usual run of literature
for children’s reading. They are cosmo-
politan enough to include stories and
verses by authors such as Masefield,
Longfellow., Hsii Ling* James Elroy
Flecker, Eric Linklater, Carl Sandburg,
R. Lai Singh, Hans Andersen and Ken-
neth Grahame; and, while Australian
writers thus don’t monopolise the issue,
they are well represented by Vance
Palmer, Furnley Maurice, Edward
Dyson, Mervyn Skipper, Banjo Pater-
son, W. H. Lang (“A Boy at the Dig-
gings”), Mervinia Masterman and others.
Decorated by Harold Freedman’s vigor-
ous drawings, they make a set of hand-
some volumes.
A children’s book by the N.Z. novelist
Joyce West, Drovers Road (Dent), con-
cerns the Allan family and their life on
a New Zealand sheep-station.
The stories, for Drovers Road is
really a collection of episodes united by
geographical setting and by a slight
lomantic theme, are told by a child,
Gay. Her bachelor uncle, Dunsany
Allan, owns the station, the four children
of the household being his nephews and
nieces. ■
Delightful characters, human and
animal, take shape in Gay’s story. The
children, especially Gay and her boy-
cousin, Merry, who are much of an age,
share adventures: treasure-seeking, rid-
ing to a hunt, hiding in a cave. There is
a show at Christmas ; the sad story of
Aunt Belle’s blighted romance; mis-
haps with a swarm of bees and numer-
ous other events which would appeal
enormously to children, especially girls,
of about ten to fourteen years. Joyce
West provides her own excellent illustra-
tions.
Poetry Prize
Results of the poetry prize competitions
lately run by the Arts Council of Great
Britain are announced by the judges:
£225 for a first book of verse to Elizabeth
Jennings for Poems (Fantasy Press,
Oxford); £225 for the “open” competi-
tion to Kathleen Raine for The Year One
(Hamish Hamilton). The council men-
tions that there were 11 entries from Aus-
tralia, six from New Zealand, three each
from Canada and India, two from the
Gold Coast and two from British Guiana.


WHETHER YOU WANT
DRESS OR CASUALS
.. -<tr
V
1
Si;
~
m
in
V:
‘ri ■
m
“Marshall” glace kid, gen. welt sole. Full, half
sizes, 76/6 pr.
Black or brn. casual, with moc. front, flex, sole, 49/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ expert fitters guarantee to fit
you with a pair of shoes that are not only smart,
but, more important still, as comfortable as
a pair of gloves from the very first moment you try them on.
:
fp *** I?-
mm
* t
mmm
t pm £ m 8!j
Anthony Horderns’ Men’s Shoe Department, situated
on ground floor, George Street.
mmm
I S
a • «
mm
s
. ■ ■,■:,■'■ ■; : ■ ,
'
lil'Q
Men’s beach sandals, in tan leather,
finished with fancy bindings. Ideal tor
casual or beach wear. To fit all sizes 5 to
11, priced at only 25/6 pr.
1
« ' m * |
. i
r
< '4. <
Mi .^c
#T j
|
1
.,, -I
|| , 0 <V y J y ~ '
Street slippers, in tan or black—can be used as
slipper round the house or as casuals. Stout leather
soles. Fit full and half sizes, priced at 47/- pr.
- ■.
C:,
Men’s super grade sandals, gen. w ftl J ed l « athe J
soles Medium or wide fittings. Full and haU
skes The price, 53/6. With crepe rubber
soles, 61/- pr.
;: ft®
; v'»
:
mhMKI k
-
■:: :■
_
mmmgmm
Men’s brown suede derby boots, with flex,
crepe rubber soles. Also with golf °*
leather soles. Full and half sizes. Golt
shoes. 62/6; leather, 65/-; crepe, 79/b.
4 v ■
* *
111 1
9
IT
m
// .
Men’s cherry tan casuals, have plated front, flex,
sewn leather soles. Also in brown leather. Full and
half sizes, 49/- pr. With crepe rubber soles, 53/6.
„V.V'V:
W
m
mmmw
•-
JSSlii
.
/' V
:
WmmSi
Men’s high grade slipper, in tan or black, have
pump leather soles. Full and half sizes, 35/6 pr.
Other styles, some fancy, priced at 42/-, 55/-.
:
m
m
M
Men’s brown golf shoes, attractive style,
have flex, sewn soles and non-slip rubber
heels. Available in full and half sizes,
priced at only 46/6 pr.
Why don’t you layby your shoes now! It’s easy at ANTHONY HORDERNS. All
you have to do is to leave a small deposit (only 4/- in the £) and pay off
the balance in easy monthly instalments. The swift, friendly service of our Layby
Department makes it easy to buy this way. Layby Department-Second Floor.
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
N!si
58
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ MEN’S SHOE DEPARTMENT GROUND
FLOOR, GEORGE ST. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. PHONE, M 2401


Analysis of a Typical Suburb
This Is Australia, 1953
By "DEE"
F | FTER living in my suburb for
some thirty years without “seeing”
L I it, I decided recently to have a real
look at it, find out, if I could, what
makes it tick, what character ,it has, what
is its place in the Australian scene.
Before long I realised that to do this
thoroughly 1 needed to be an economist,
a statistician and a sociologist, with much
more time on my hands than I had.
Nevertheless, the incomplete results of
my look-over produced some interesting
results.
The main one is the conviction that
my suburb multiplied by x is Australia,
1953 —urban Australia, anyway.
My suburb is on a main railway-line
on the outer perimeter of Sydney. It
could be classified as a mainly industrial
suburb, not a “slum” suburb of the
inner industrial metropolis, but certainly
one where basic-wage standards would
rule.
It holds three or four major industrial
establishments (each employing upwards
of two thousand men) and a sizeable
number of smaller industrial concerns.
In the old days, the optimists spoke
of it as the (coming) “Birmingham of
Australia.” It hasn’t become that, but
still it is an industrial area of importance.
As is nowadays common in Australia,
local employment gives placement to only
a proportion of local labor. There is
great daily movement in and out; trains
bring thousands of men in each day,
take thousands out.
The suburb covers an area of slightly
more than 4000 acres. Its population
now is approximately 35,000. The muni-
cipal area holds 8300 houses, of which
5600 are occupied by their owners, 2700
rented —a surprisingly high percentage of
owned against rented, in an industrial
district; a factor certainly reflecting the
prosperous ’forties.
On the Australian average, the local
population would divide almost exactly
half, into males, half into females. Again
on Australian averages, 22,000 would
be adults of both sexes, 13,000 under 21.
Thus there would be 11,000 adult male
breadwinners minus pensioners; bread-
winners would include a small percentage
of adult women, plus some 3000 bread-
winning girls and juniors; there would
be about 10,000 children of school age,
under 15.
The great majority of the male bread-
winners would be basic-wagers or
- artisans; professional men could be
counted as less than a couple of dozen,
while the business community would
count as having a secondary income—
- i.e., an income derived in turn from the
primary income brought into the town
by the artisans, craftsmen, laborers and
so on of many varied occupations.
Allowing for half the male breadwinners
to receive the basic wage (that is, 5500
at now £l2 a week) and half to receive
an average additional margin of £4 (that
is, 5500 at £l6 a week), the substantial
income of the suburb from primary-
earning sources would be £66,000 plus
£BB,OOO, with teenagers adding perhaps
an additional £24,000—a total weekly in-
come of £178,000. These figures are
very much approximated, and are one
of the challenging points on which closer
inquiry is indicated.
Since there is a sizeable “export” of
spending-money to other suburbs, not
balanced by a corresponding “import,”
it is difficult to assess the amount of busi-
ness which could be sustained by such
a figure. There are, however, approxi-
mately 400 separate businesses conducted
in the municipal district, of which about
150 would be in the “shopping-area” and
a very large proportion of the remainder
scattered around as the characteristic
“general store,” of which almost every
street has its representative or its quota.
In addition to these “general stores,”
the suburb supports nine grocer’s-shops in
its main shopping-area, all but one of
them chain-store groceries. There are
seven butchers, six chemists, six barbers,
10 milk-bars, three fish-shops, four deli-
catessens, three produce-merchants, three
cakeshops, three ironmongers.
The suburb has six doctors, three solici-
tors, three dentists, three estate-agents,
four hotels, one wine-saloon, two billiards-
saloons and four banks.
There are 13,200 active accounts in the
local branch of the Commonwealth
Savings Bank, with an average deposit of
£lO4. Thus the townspeople of the
suburb have, on call, some £1,370,000
in accumulated bank-savings.
The suburb reflects economic adversity
quickly. In the slight recession of earlier
this year it had one of the highest ratings
in Sydney for relief applications. During
the depression of the ’thirties it was a
bad area for unemployment and distress;
comparative figures scarcely exist showing
its capacity now to withstand economic
troubles more competently.
Socially and culturally the suburb runs
very much in the fair-average Australian
pattern. There are two picture-theatres,
“Live” shows occur a few times a year,
a ]j 0 £ the vaudeville kind. Impossible to
know how Shakspeare or serious drama
would fare—nobody has ever been game
to tl y it.
The School of Arts is certainly not a
school, while the arts are few and
neglected, unless billiards, euchre and
sno oker fall into the category. Apart
f rom lodge and political meetings, the
School of Arts is a venue for dancing.
card-playing and book-borrowing,
The book-level is best illustrated by the
point that a reader of “serious” books
would exhaust its meagre possibilities
within a month; an occasional
bundle of books from the Public
Library in Sydney, plus a few odds and
ends of neglected “culture,” comprises
the high-level reading. There is no rush
on the Public Library contributions,
though they are read,
There is an ample supply of romances,
mysteries and westerns ; but if the School
of Arts may be accepted as a determin-
ant, the intellectual standard of the
suburb is not high,
Add to this my newsagent’s astonish-
ment at the demand for picture-comics,
sought impartially by genuine juveniles
and actually-juvenile adults. It is
not unusual for a family to buy
every week a copy of every picture-
comic produced, some fifteen-shillings-
worth all told of sensational literature
with not a genuine thought amongst it.
There is an Anglican, a Catholic, a
Methodist, a Presbyterian, a Baptist and
a Congregational church, all sustained by
a substantial congregation ; most of the
churches, however, are still as fully
capable of meeting congregational
demands on them as they were when
built on average from forty to sixty years
ago . . .
Well, there it is. How much of value
there is in this collated information it’s
difficult to say. Going so far left me
with the main thought that we all know
remarkably little of the dynamics of
community life around us, and, as I have
said, that my suburb multiplied by x is
Australia, 1953.
Nursery-tale
IT was the cocky manner in which
the nurseryman said it that got
myhack up.
Its too late to put them in,”
ne declared, in answer to my request
. a P ac^et °f telegraph-peas.
And, anyway, the name of the
climbmg variety is ‘telephone.’ ”
Would they come up if I were to
put them in?” I asked.
Oh, yes, he said. “They’d come
up all right. But you’d never get a
feed off them. The hot weather we’ll
be getting shortly will just wither
them up. Peas are winter- and
spring-bearers.”
“How do you know we’ll be
gettmg hot weather?” I asked. “We
haven’t had any so far, and for all
you know we may be in for a
phenomenally cold summer. I re-
member one January when I was on
a surfing holiday and we had it
simply freezing it wasn’t above
fifty-five degrees all the week, much
colder than we sometimes get it
in ”— .
‘Yes, yes,” he cut in rudely, “but
I’m telling you you won’t pick any
peas if you set them in now.”
“Who said I wanted to get a pick-
ing off them?” I asked. “For all you
know I might be going to use the
young pealings as a decoy to attract
the snails and slugs away from the
oleanders. Or I may want them to
fatten the snails for kitchen use.
Because I don t speak with a French
accent isn t to say I mightn t be a
connoisseur of choice Gallic viands.”
He raised his eyes to the ceiling,
reached behind him, took a packet of
seeds from the shelves and slammed
11 ™", 0n the cou J nter -„ , '
Thats one-and-six, he said
money a'wav that’s vour‘
“HLever i “I
don” happen to be a snail- ovei l in
the gastronomic sense. You have
other peas, no doubt. What about
the everlasting type?”
“They're not they're a
flowerr he said sulkily. “Herbaceous
perennials. You can'! eat them.”
“Are they poisonous, like the
. „• ? „ ■
fhe thalhum nlan ? ”1S
the thallium p ant. 1 asked
"Cut”’' h
“Well,” I said, “why shouldn’t a
flower be edible? I have a goat
which masticates snapdragons and
roses which have quite formidable
thorns on the stalks, and it has never
been fatally affected. I myself as a
child often ate honeysuckle-blossom
for the honey, and I don’t think any-
body could, with justification, claim
that I am dead. Although I am not
aware that everlasting-peas are rich
in all the recognised vitamins, it is
reasonable to assume that they con-
tain at least a modicum of nutri-
ment. It is well known that in cer-
tain rural areas where vegetables are
impossible to obtain the Scotch-
thistle is highly regarded as a sub-
stitute for spinach and is rich in
iron.”
By this time he was furiously gnaw-
ing his nails. Again he reached up
to the shelves behind him, got a seed-
packet and banged it down on the
counter.
“You can eat ’em, shove ’em in the
ground or grind ’em up for your
damn’ canary for all I care!” he
shouted. Then he looked along the
counter and began: “Sorry, madam,
but it’s this”——
“Now, now,” I warned him pleas-
antly, “Remember that the prudent
businessman never makes derogatory
remarks about a customer. My Uncle
Claude once found that out to his
cost. He had just sold a customer a
grand-piano and mentioned to his
assistant that the customer had a
face like a goanna’s. The buyer over-
heard him. Luckily for Uncle he’d
paid the money over, but the man
angrily stamped out saying he’d in-
tended to buy a mouthorgan as well,
but he’d take his custom elsewhere.
So you see, it”
“Look,” the nurseryman said des-
pairingly. “Do you want anything
else?”
“Yes,” I said. “Have you any
aster seedlings?”
“I have,” he said, brightening
slightly. “Giant Crego, Rochester,
Californian Giant, American
Beauty”
“What about Bilbo’s Puny?” I
asked.
“Never heard of it!” he said
emphatically.
“That’s a coincidence,” I re-
marked. “Neither have I. Now what
about position and cultivation? I
have a south-west corner which gets
a lot of downdraught, and it’s
always a swamp because of a drip-
ping tap just up a bit from it. I
have also a space available between
the castor-oil plant and a giant dock-
weed. Which would you recom-
mend? There is also the question of
trace-elements. I should have some
of them. Perhaps half a pint of
mixed ones would do. I’ll have the
American Crego.”
“It’s the Giant Crego,” he said.
“I hate having to use the extension-
ladder to pick the blooms of my
asters,” I said. “You’d better make
it the American Beauty.”
He became almost genial at my
decision. “How many dozen?” he
asked.
“Half a dozen will do,” I said.
“What do you think I am —a market-
gardener?”
He had to revive himself with a
sniff of strong blood-and-bone be-
fore digging them out.
BO.
A P.-O.-W. PAINTS HIS WAY OUT
By “FAAREX”
OF all the escape-stories to come out
of Europe in World War 11, I
hand the palm to that of an English
corporal from Stalag VIIIB at
Lamsdorf.
I witnessed his take-off, a classic of
simplicity and opportunism.
A squad of Russian prisoners from a
near-by camp were brought in every day
under guard, ostensibly to drive rubbish-
carts, clean out latrines and perform other
menial tasks, but actually to foster resent-
ment, if possible, on both their side and
ours. Goebbels’s propagandists had been
screaming about “master-races” and
“slave-races” for so long that by 1943 they
were even classifying their prisoners
according to their notions of our respec-
tive racial prestige; and, of course, they
never missed a chance to drive a wedge
between allies.
The net result was slightly off-centre:
the Russkis, who were always “Ivan” to
us (as the boys in the M.E. were always
“George”), generally left with assorted
smoking, eating or wearing items. These
were confiscated by the guards when
detected, but there was an atmosphere of
goodwill between Ivan and us.
One day I was idly watching one of
them whitewashing the stones which
flanked the road in through the main
gate when a nondescript little cove beside
me said in a matter-of-fact voice, “That
gives me an idea.”
He shot off, reappearing a few minutes
later minus battledress and wearing in its
place a stained old suit of overalls, roughly
approximating to Ivan’s. Probably he’d
had them for months, or years, waiting
for a chance. A few words of “Stalag
Deutsch” (corresponding to pidgin
English, and the lingua franca of
prisoners of all nationalities) and a hand-
ful of cigarettes passed between him and
Ivan, and at an opportune moment the
bucket and brush changed hands.
Ivan joined a bunch of his mates, busy
doing nothing on the pretext of picking
up rubbish. The corp. took one good
look around, then settled down to paint
stones,, but on the opposite side of the
road, and back towards the main gate,
His brain must have been as busy as
his hands, for his arrival there coincided
with the midday guard-change,
When the old guard file had been
marched off and the new Posten settled
down to survey the scene the first thing
he saw was a harmless-looking character
painting stones ten yards outside the gate,
I watched till the stone-painter turned
the corner 100 yards away and dis-
appeared.
In July, 1945,1 was sitting in a Brighton
(Eng.) cafe when he walked in and sat
down opposite. A fortnight after he left
camp, the news of his arrival in Switzer-
land had reached us along the grapevine;
now he filled-in the details,
Just too easy, he said. Out of sight
of camp, he switched to milestones, which
are universal on German roads. When
anyone asked who he was he would
reply “Auslander arbeiter” (foreign
laborer), his atrocious accent lending color
to the tale. Hundreds of thousands of
such laborers, mostly European, were
working in Germany at the time, mostly
unsupervised. What was he doing? Paint-
ing milestones, of course, go back and
see. Any papers? Back in the barracks,
naturally; no pockets in these overalls,
Where are the barracks? Back there,
All right, carry on ; Heil Hitler!
So he painted his way clear out of the
country!
“Any frontier trouble?” I asked.
“Not very much,” he said, and, after
seeing his timing and strategy at the
camp, I could well believe that,
“Any bad moments?”
“Yes, twice, when the whitewash ran
out.”


The Bulletin
Wednesday, November 11, 1953
VoL 74—No. 3848
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
'Phone. BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth,
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
RAFFERTY GOVERNMENT
After the exhibitions which N. S. Wales has lately
had of the kind of government its “Labor” masters
are giving it there is scarcely room for surprise that
about 30 northern municipal bodies are preparing to
take referenda on secession from N. S. Wales at their
annual election this year. It is a moot point whether
such referenda can be legally held. In 1950 the
Local Government Department ruled that it was
competent for any council to take a vote on the
subject. The Glen Innes Council took one, and the
majority in favor of secession was overwhelming.
The Local Government Department has since ruled
that referenda on secession are not legal. However,
a number of bodies beyond Newcastle will take
a vote, legal or not, in an attempt to test public opinion
on whether the rich north should be rescued from the
city majority in Parliament which makes the law for
N. S. Wales and every part of it.
The scent of corruption, breeding in an atmosphere
of totalitarianism, rises from the very dust every time
“Labor” puts a foot down. N.S.W. Parliament House
and the A.L.P. are more like outlaw caves than centres
of civilised government. In Parliament House the Big
Stick rules: the Constitution is suspended in favor of
a system in which the Speaker has divested himself of
his normal functions to act as chucker-out for his
party. The rules of procedure, not to mention the
rules of fair play, and the rights of minorities have
ceased to exist in the Parliamentary chambers just as
they have ceased to exist in the State as a whole.
Opposition members claim that they are subjected,
as they were last week, to biased treatment. These
culminated in rebellion by the Opposition and the
temporary expulsion of four members, including Mr.
Bruxner, the father of the House, an exemplary Parlia-
mentarian.
In the Assembly, as Mr. Treatt suggested, imparti-
ality and firm discipline have given way to “the feeble
joke, sneer, insult or intimidation,” a policy carried
even to the length that the Speaker has been made
to bear a charge, on which nobody has attempted to
defend him seriously, that last year he expelled two
Opposition members from the Chamber without a
semblance of an excuse at a point when their votes
would have defeated the Government, and that he
afterwards admitted that he had mistaken the Standing
Orders. It was not recalled in the debate that the
Government’s Attorney-General made the same
mistake, thus suggesting an extraordinary coincidence
between the Government and the Chair in the matter.
The same atmosphere which prevails in the
Assembly prevails in the Government’s and Parlia-
ment’s relations with the people. The Premier and
his Leftist Minister, Mr. Landa, are pushing through
at all costs the compulsory-unionism legislation which
will turn N. S. Wales into a Communist State. They
are resisted by Mr, Clive Evatt, who, a Queen’s
Counsel, feels —or says he feels —that the draft bill
conflicts with the country’s obligation to observe
U.N.O.’s Charter of Human Rights.
It is proposed even to subsidise informer unions
with a share of the fines in order to make this new
oppression workable. And this action is perfectly in
line with the general thought of the Ministry, which
has always vehemently supported the right to strike,
even illegally, but whose Deputy-Premier has never-
theless just abolished with a stroke of the pen a parents-
and-citizens association branch in Sydney because it
has suggested that children should be kept at home
from a school which, through the Minister’s own
neglect of his duties, is, in local opinion, not fit for
children to spend the day in. Mr. Heffron has the
impudence to give as his excuse that the branch is
“on strike” against the law, and therefore must be
wiped out, a viewpoint which would long ago have
led to the suppression of nearly every trade-union in
the State.
The inclination to give transport-workers the 3s.
increase in the basic wage is a shocking negation of
all decency, an abandonment to the party’s professed
adherence to arbitration, an exhibition of the spoils-
to-the-victors policy at its worst, and in spirit, at least,
contempt of the Arbitration Court. Also another indi-
cation that the law and justice operate in favor of
one class only.
But perhaps all this is natural for a party which
has so little confidence in its own integrity that its
constituent unions recently held a mass-meeting under
the auspices of the deputy leader of the Federal “Labor”
party, Mr. Calwell, to “demonstrate” in favor of
“clean ballots” ; a party which feels the need to examine
the private incomes of its candidates for office in the
A DISAPPOINTMENT
" They say it should have a marvellous perfume, but it hasn’t even flowered yet."
Sydney City Council as a safeguard against any
instinct for corruption; a party under whose aegis
a condition developed in the liquor trade which shocked
even hardened New South Wales, one under which
Parliament House has become known as the resort
of “fixers” and in which some notorious criminals
apparently have been able to wander at will, making
us© of the bar and the rooms of their friends.
About the Cahill Government’s incompetency, its
shabby unsupervised administration of finances, it is
scarcely necessary to inquire. The facts about the
Deputy-Premier’s department are coming out in a
steady stream at the almost interminable inquiry which
is being held into the alleged relationship between a
convicted criminal and officers of the Government.
This is only one instance of many demonstrating
the laxity of this down-at-heel Ministry which sees
nothing wrong in its ex-colleague, Mr. Joe Arthur,
continuing to enjoy the privileges of Parliament House,
his pension and gold-pass for life and which is not
moved by the expulsion from the Miscellaneous
Workers’ Union of faithful employees of the State at
Parliament House itself because they have dared to
exercise their rights as citizens and oppose the iniquitous
industrial conscription which Mr. Cahill is introducing.
Malenkov and his myrmidons could teach the
present Macquarie-street bosses very little. They are
as bad a Government as the Lang-Garden-Willis
regime of the depression years, and any part of the
State which can find a method of getting out of their
clutches must feel politically cleaner.
Geography and Commonsense
a . « . . • j .
A loose statement that has gamed wider acceptance
than it deserves since high-speed aeroplanes began
the annihilation of distance is that Australia is geo-
graphically part ot Asia and that her future interests
are bound up with south-east Asia. There s no
disputing that the Jet Age has taken aay the relative
isolation this country once knew. Timor is no more
than a n hour from our coast; Java, two or three
hours; Malaya and Indo-Chma four or five; India,
China and Japan less than half a day. It has become
a politician s cliche that the Far East is now Aus-
tralias Near North, but the obvious truth of that
statement doesn t make us part of Asia. Canada
doesn t regard itself as belonging to north-east Asia
merely because British Columbia happens to be closer
to Japan than to Europe. Only a narrow strait
runf o^ e cfaim S lafSis 0
but no one cl&ims Inst inis d.ccicient or
makes Amerira an Asian cmmtrv set'/
makes America an A an c ry.
The change wrought by the aeroplane is enormous,
k u f 'fi a^f r a i’ mere Jy rel^ ve - . Australia ! s
only half a day distant from China and India, it is
less than a day distant from Britain, Europe and
America, with which countries it shares a common
racial, linguistic and cultural heritage. It is with the
°.i.f i . . .
Western countries, too, .hat our trade interests lie.
In 1951, the last normal trading year before import-
restrictions threw all statistics out of focus, 77 per cent.
of Australian exports went to the United Kingdom,
Europe and North America. Only 14 per cent, went
to Asia. With imports the position was very similar—
Britain, Europe and North America supplied us with
73 per cent, of them; Asia, 17 per cent.
There is no reason to believe that those proper-
tions will change much in the next few years. Britain
will remain our best customer for wool, wheat, meat
and butter, and unless our production of these com-
modities increases to a much greater degree than at
present seems likely, it is hard to see how exports
to Asia can be stepped up, especially as the proportion
needed for home consumption by a growing population
is mounting all the time. The link-up-with-Asia en-
thusiasts ignore this and seem to consider Australia
capable of feeding all Asia.
In the early post-war years there were great ex-
pectations that Asia would provide a big market for
Australian manufactured goods; but rising costs have
priced us out of the race. As to imports, there is no
desire here for manufactured goods from Asia. —
already there is a lively alarm among Australian in-
dustrialists at the prospect of Japanese competition
on the home front—so that any increased buying we
do in that part of the world can only take the form
of increased purchases of the lines we already buy
there. Chief among these are tea, rubber, cornsacks
and petrol, but even the most ardent advocate of
better relations with Asia would probably whoop
for joy at the news that oil had been discovered in
the Commonwealth.
The concept of Australia as a piece of land that
has come unstuck from Asia and must therefore be
pinned on again seems to be compounded of three
ill-assorted ingredients. First there is fear of Asia’s
overwhelming numbers. Then there’s a kind of
guilt-complex —a feeling that Europeans have in the
past wronged Asians by exploiting and looking-down
on them and that it is up to us to remedy this by
showing that we regard them as our equals or superiors.
Finally there is a schoolmasterish desire to instruct and
improve, which doesn’t seem to fit in with the previous
element, but somehow refuses to be separated from it.
In its most extreme form the cult envisages the
Anzus Pact as expanded to or supplanted by a South-
East Asia Pact, ignoring the fact that most of the
countries of that area have made it fairly plain that,
although they are prepared to accept all help offering
if attacked, their principal concern is to stay neutral
in most other circumstances. A second belief is that
Australia’s primary production can be expanded to
supply all the food needed in the area —whether it is
to be paid for and how depends on the fancy and
taste of the individual speaker or writer. Finally,
there’s the idea that Australia can somehow supply
the scientific and technical know-how necessary to
convert backward countries into efficient modern
States. Summing-up, a country of nine million people
is to lead a continent of 1000 million to prosperity.
It’s a great conception, but it doesn’t make sense.
In a way, the Colombo Plan, though a fine con-
cept, contributes to the cult; not of itself but through
the misconceptions to which it gives rise in the
minds of starry-eyed dreamers. Australia can be
proud, of the assistance it has given the new republics
of south-east Asia under the plan, but there is a
definite limit to what a nation of nine million can
do. Mr. Casey, after outlining what had actually
been done, said the other day:
It is, of course, realised in south and south-east
Asia that help in developmental directions is not very
easy for us to give, as we are ourselves in the same
process of development, and that we have not got a
great deal of money or equipment or expert personnel
to spare.
By all means we should encourage trade and
intercourse with Asia, and it is highly desirable that
we should be good friends with the new and old
nations there, as with all countries who wish to bo
our friends. But let us be rational about it. Calling
ourselves Asians and bending oyer backwards wiU
impress no one and achieve nothing.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Foreign Affairs and Unity
Mr. Eden’s speech in the House of Com-
mons on November 6 marked a new
stage in the rehabilitation of Britain’s
influence in world affairs and gave a
specific intimation that the United King-
dom will pursue its own line in foreign
politics, and that if there is war the
responsibility will lie on other shoulders.
He made no bones about the fact the
Russian reply to the suggestion of a Four-
Power Pact set out conditions which would
make it impossible for Germany to be-
come united and free again, and which
would also place the world at the Krem-
lin’s mercy—Malenkov and his opti-
mists have virtually asked for guarantee
of world disarmament without Russian
disarmament as a prelude to a discussion
of concrete plans for peace.
Mr. Eden said that the Soviet Union
in its hidden fastnesses was examining
plans and policies and formulating hopes
at which the West could not even guess.
And that it was in these inaccessible
places, into which no Western eye is ever
allowed to penetrate, that the fate of the
world for peace or war was being settled.
But at the same time, if it were being
settled for war, he made it clear that it
would not be for want of trying to pre-
vent it by the British Government; that
“if others choose to slam doors and
barricade them, ours will remain open;
for our work is a work of peace which
we shall not abandon.”
The snarling from Moscow during the
week, with counter-shouts of defiance from
the United States, the agitation against
British “murderers” by the hysterical
Italians in Trieste, egged on by Com-
munist agitators who would like to lead
Yugoslavia and Italy into war to provide
a stepping-stone for Communist ambi-
tion and aggression, show hqw threatening
the peril always is. Events in Asia, where
the nebulous “refugee” forces in Siam
and the Viet-minh armies seem to be
preparing to solidify round a hard core,
are scarcely less serious than those which
have produced a flickering fire on the
Adriatic capable of leaping into a world
blaze.
A noticeable feature of the world
position is the loneliness of the United
Kingdom in clear expression of its peace
line. Though this is one with which
most Dominions are in accord, there
seems to be either reluctance or inability
to say so with the right timing. There
appears, in fact, to be among Dominion
leaders a sort of suppressed conviction
that to endorse firmly and clearly any-
thing the United Kingdom does is to
admit dependence on the Government at
Westminster or some sort of subservience
or inferiority of status. This, of course,
was more marked in Dr. Evatt’s day,
when it was an axiom to manifest the
greatness of Australia its External Affairs
Department must oppose and browbeat
and insult all our best friends. But the
flavor of his policies somehow seems to
linger, a fact due perhaps to an attempt
to have a leg in both camps—one in
Anzus, which must walk in the ways
of the United States, and one in the
camp of the United Kingdom, with
whose defences our own are integral.
Bath Needed
The Cahill Government having felt,
apparently, that it would be unwise to
have a royal commission into the affairs
of the Sydney City Council and the
rumors of graft in its precincts, the State
A.L.P. Executive and the party officers
have done their best to lend color to the
rumors by holding an inquiry into the
income of every candidate for council
membership this year.
And the city and the State —of which
the city should be the head and front,
seeing that it is the heart of the metropoli-
tan population, which is more than half
that of the State which controls Parlia-
ment —are entitled to ask the meaning of
the result. The party officers refused to
comment on the selections. Some of the
eight aldermen who were excluded from
nomination have been less inhibited.
The one person who seems to be really
delighted with the result is Lord Mayor
Hills, a young man from Surry Hills, who
is to have another year of toil in the
ratepayers’ interests, carrying out the ,
arduous duty as civic host in keeping with
the dignity of the second white city of
the British Commonwealth, at an effective
salary equal to that of a Prime Minister.
Nothing will ever restore the reputation
of the City Council of Sydney except
reform based on thorough inquiry. It
has been blown upon so long that nothing
can damage it much further. The nature
of its population and the fact that most
of its ability and energy lives outside
its borders condemn it to be governed
for ever, it seems, by minor hangers-on of
the A.L.P. not considered good enough
to serve the Parliament of Cahill and
' Aruth. It is elected by dwellers in
» suburbs which the “Labor” party itself
considers to be slums but would not
reform for the world (so much is their
worth at election-time to the party), and
• night-spot areas like King’s Cross.
The city itself, which should be a
dignified national monument as well as
an advertisement as a bright and busy
i commercial capital of the Common-
wealth, meets only the standards of its
controlling electors. It is shabby, its
streets are dilapidated and dirty, its build-
ings of the last generation quite undis-
tinguished, scarcely any new ones being
erected except by Government depart-
ments operating at sub-snail-pace. It
has no great metropolitan museum of art,
no real statuary, few parks worth the
name, no civic theatre or civic centre, no
glitter, no pageantry. Nobody loves it
or takes any interest in it except those
who batten on it. But Alderman Hills,
the Lord Mayor, is flushed with excite-
ment because next year it may have a
swimming-bath.
As a city, from the point of view
of civic pride and standards, cleanliness,
public morals and general outlook, it
needs a bath.
The Reign of King Tom
“Please to remember the fifth of
November,” doesn’t mean much north of
the Murrumbidgee, where the people don’t
celebrate the escape of the English Par-
liament from the Gunpowder Plot of
1605. South of that river they do. And
this year South Australians had particu-
larly good cause to remember the date,
for it marked the completion of 15
successive years of rule by King Tom.
King Tom is the appellation—whether
applied affectionately, exasperatedly,
sarcastically or venomously—given by
South Australians to their Premier Thomas
Playford. And, no matter in what mood
they apply it, the man’s record is one
which many another politician should
envy.
He became Premier on November 5,
1938. South Australia was then a com-
placent agricultural States its only signi-
ficant industries some smelters at Port
Pirie, a motor-body works or two,
and a few factories in Adelaide, itself
a quiet little city which seemed destined
to dullness and somnolence.
There followed six years of war and
eight years of reconstruction. Playford
remained South Australia’s Premier
throughout, and South Australia rose to
importance under his guidance. A com-
pletely new town of 10,000 people was
established at Whyalla, a shipbuilding
and manufacturing centre on Spencer
Gulf; Adelaide became ringed with fac-
tories and their products were success-
fully established throughout Australia, If
ever a place woke up and grabbed an
opportunity it was South Australia.
During those years Playford seemed to
bob up wherever anything was doing.
He fought the Commonwealth Govern-
ment for what he wanted and mostly got
it; in Sydney and Melbourne, whenever
an industrial magnate of some sort turned
up from overseas to size-up prospects,*
Playford was on the spot to preach the
virtues and stability of his own State.
When N.S.W. coalmine stopworks threat-
ened S.A. power-supplies, he opened up
and developed (in the face of strong
opposition) the Leigh Creek coalfield
away in the “Dead Heart.” Great pipe-
lines ran water from the Murray 230 miles
to Whyalla, watering towns all along the
route, and now Adelaide itself will shortly
have Murray water pouring into its
reservoirs.
In latter days Playford has seen the
great A.M.P. settlement scheme begin in
the south-east, the development of
Kangaroo Island, discoveries of uranium
and other metals in South Australia, the
establishment of the world-famous
Woomcra weapons range, the beginning
of a plan to build a new city at Salisbury,
and along/with this the steady consolida-
tion and expansion of South Australian
secondary industry.
Not a bad record for 15 years, and
one strangely contrasting the records in
other States, where a kind of dry-rot seems
to set in when Governments have been
more than five years in power. Even
the “Labor” Opposition in South Aus-
tralia has more than once admitted that
it would prefer Opposition so long as
Playford remains Premier. Yes, South
Australians will remember the sth of
November.
Steel in the Future
At intervals over the past two months
the South Australian Parliament has been
discussing a private bill introduced by
Mr. Riches, “Labor” member for Stuart,
proposing the appointment of a select
committee to “inquire into the desirability
of establishing a steelworks in the vicinity
of Whyalla and to report to Parliament
on steps to be taken to implement recom-
mendations made by the Director of
Mines on such an undertaking.”
The recommendations referred to were
contained in a report in which Mr. S. B.
Dickinson, S.A. Director of Mines, sur-
veyed Australia’s steel-production and
requirements, estimated that by 1960
demand could reach five million tons
and recommended an immediate start on
new plant to meet that demand. This,
he thought, could best be done by estab-
lishing a steel plant at Whyalla—-cost,
including working capital, £l2O million
—and another at Bowen, Queensland-
estimated cost “possibly £l5O million.”
That’s big money even for these days.
Mr. Dickinson apparently visualised its
being found partly by the South Aus-
tralian and Federal Governments and
partly by public subscription. In the
course of the debate Premier Playford
made it clear that his Government had
no intention of setting up in business as
a steel-producer, that money on that
scale simply was not available, that the
Federal Government as far back as Mr.
Curtin’s time would have nothing to
do with the proposal, and that the British
Chancellor of the Exchequer had indicated
as recently as last August that it was ex-
tremely unlikely that any British capital
would be available for such a purpose.
There is really no difference of opinion
in South Australia as to the desirability
of having steelworks at Whyalla, That
was one of the ideas behind file Morgan-
Whyalla pipeline, and B.H.P. years ago
announced its intention of establishing a
plant there, though this has been post-
poned indefinitely, the company’s re-
sources being fully extended by develop-
mental work at Port Kembla. The real
point at issue in the debate was whether
or not a select committee would perform
any useful function. In the end the House
said it wouldn’t.
A feature of Mr. Dickinson’s report
is his survey of iron-ore reserves. He
concludes that known deposits of high-
grade ore in South Australia and West
Australia total 275 million tons. Even
at the present rate of consumption, three
million tons a year, this doesn’t give the
Australian steel-industry a very long life,
and expansion will mean earlier exhaus-
tion of reserves. But with low-grade
ore, so far unexploited, the picture is
more hopeful. In America decline in
production of high-grade ore is being
offset by production of steel from low-
grade ores, particularly taconite. Mr.
Dickinson says there are enormous re-
serves of this in South Australia —around
the Middleback Ranges at least five billion
tons.
Rubber
“G.A.L.”: The rubber industry in Papua
and most Eastern countries is again in
the doldrums, and investors, planters and
owners of small native holdings in the
East, as in Papua and New Guinea, are
disheartened and looking round for some-
one to beanie.
To my mind, American and Australian
politicians are mainly responsible for the
confusion and distress in the industry.
The U.S.A. is the greatest manufactur-
ing nation in the world. It has shown
immense generosity to the Eastern races
and has scattered money and materials
throughout Asia. But it is to be regretted
that this lavishness is often misunder-
stood. America has practically dropped
out of the market for natural rubber and
has fostered the production of the
synthetic product, using up valuable raw
materials needed by other American in-
dustries. This synthetic rubber is being
sold under the cost of production, and has
depreciated the price of natural rubber.
Let us see how this silly policy counters
the generosity of the American public.
The following table shows the small native
holdings of rubber areas in the East, none
of them over 100 acres:
Malaya 1,374,000 acres
Indonesia 3,200,000
Ceylon 280,000 „
India 54,000 „
Burma 43,000 „
North Borneo .. .. 59,000 „
Sarawak 222,000
Thailand 400,000
Indo-China 20,000 „
5,652,000 acres
On most European-managed estates it
takes one native to look after three acres,
but it is estimated on the small native-
family rubber-holdings five natives would
be directly interested ; so it can be seen
that the foregoing acreage is supporting
something like 10 million people. If
rubber continues 10 fall in price all these
people will have to look elsewhere for
work and food. They don’t want to
exist on American charity; all they ask
is a fair price for what they produce.
If the Americans wish to keep the East
happy and contented, they must either
cut out synthetic rubber and buy natural
rubber at a decent price, or give these
Asians the right to sell to the Iron
Curtain countries and to their neighbor,
China.
The Commonwealth of Australia has
an equally silly set-up in dealing with
rubber-production in Papua and New
Guinea. The planted area of these two
territories is only 25,623 acres, producing
from 2500-3000 tons, against Australia’s
requirements of 30,000 tons annually.
Streams of politicians take cheap trips
to Papua and New Guinea and talk in
a large way of increasing production and
“settling” the country, etc., but they do
nothing to assist the rubber-planter but
make a devil of a fuss about the missions
and education. There is an export tax
on rubber levied in Port Moresby, and
there is an import tax of 2d. a pound
on rubber brought into Australia.
Pageantry and Defence
“Ek Dum”: Sydney’s annual Military
Tattoo becomes every year more firmly
rooted in public esteem, and especially
in that of young people. While a few
events attract greater attendances, it is
doubtful whether so many youngsters get
together on any three consecutive even-
ings as those who attended the Tattoo. It is
worth while to go merely to see the
crowds themselves, merely to study the
splendid physique of them and to have
assurance that there are in this country
large numbers of adolescents and young
men and women who can gather together
to watch a * spectacle without the
larrikinism which often characterises the
mobs which attend League football
matches and the races. Nobody has yet
been heard to hoot a tank at a Sydney
Tattoo.
The Tattoo has been largely the baby
of that stern innovator of social improve-
ment in military circles, Lieutenant-
General Frank Berryman. During the
eight years he has held Eastern Com-
mand he has nursed the colorful pageant
with the same zeal as he has employed
to turn military barracks and areas
within his jurisdiction from places
in which only a hero could hope to sur-
vive into centres fit for heroes. When he
revived the Tattoo scheme after the war,
in a period of scarcity of materials and
disorganisation and of an Army being
steadily retrenched to nothingness, the
idea was received with lack-lustre en-
thusiasm and attracted small attendances.
Now it is probably the greatest and
most crowded annual publicity display
of its kind that is held regularly in the
British Commonwealth outside the United
Kingdom. It gives a great fillip to military
morale and it provides a true advertise-
ment for the services under Army control,
including the National Service trainees,
without losing its spontaneity or the
atmosphere of amateurism. It also serves
to prpve that the Australian’s pretended
scorn of color and pageantry is pure
pretence. He (or she) is just as responsive
to pomp, glitter, grand music and the
thunder of saluting guns as any medieval.
The New War History
A summary of the week’s war news:
Thursday:—Air reconnaissance discovered an
enemy move southward on the Mendooran-
Dubbo line. Plans for strategic bombing have
accordingly been made and an armored brigade
and some infantry detachments have moved
to intercept.
Friday;—Between Caragabal and Coota-
mundra West, where the front has been static,
enemy advance-guards were located. In a
brisk engagement Sgt. Bigfeet was surrounded
by the enemy. Nothing daunted, he read them
a speech by Premier Cahill, whereupon they
dispersed. The gallant soldier has been recom-
mended for the P.P. Board medal, which
entitles him to laugh at rabbit-inspectors in
future. In reply to a question in the House
as to Sgt. Bigfeet’s presence in the area with-
out a union ticket, Minister for Agriculture
Graham promised to have investigations made,
though he considered the question nothing
more than an Opposition move to embarrass
the Government. When Opposition-leader
Treatt sought leave to explain, the Speaker
(Mr. Lamb) ordered him to resume his seat.
Mr. Murray Robson (Yaucluse): You
grasshopper! (U proar).
In an impassioned statement to the Press
Mr. Lamb denied that he was in any way
connected with any grasshopper and accused
Mr. Robson of enemy sympathies.
Saturday:—The battle of Gunningbland,
which has raged throughout today and part of
tomorrow, will undoubtedly go down to his-
tory as one of the significant battles of the
war. At dawn the enemy launched mass
attacks from Bogan Gate in the north and
Wongalea in the south-east. His air forces
((Continued on next page}


darkened the skies and his ground troops came
on in successive waves. With reckless abandon
enemy fliers dive-bombed windscreens, radia-
tors, and motor-cyclists’ goggles, and, even
when attacked with the bayonet, his groilnd
forces showed complete disregard for our men.
Field commanders are now convinced that the
enemy are masters of fluid warfare on a
shifting front. Reinforcements are expected to
turn the tide.
Sunday:—At a special meeting of the
N. S. Wales Cabinet today (yes, it’s Sunday)
the Premier (Mr. Cahill) proudly told tus
colleagues that a count of enemy dead after
Saturday’s engagement revealed that our forces
gave a good account of themselves. No fewer
than 53 air-borne enemy had been shot down;
in three hours our reconnaissance counted 1786
enemy dead over a mile of the front. Mr.
Cahill said most of them had been walked on,
but there was evidence that two had been shot
and one had died of bayonet-wounds. Also, a
private of the 2/Nth had gone out with a
butterfly-net and captured 28 prisoners, includ-
ing a Colorado beetle, two Spanish flies, at
least one Argentine-ant, and an Italian bee.
This was clear evidence that the enemy was
recruiting forces in supposedly neutral areas
and he had drawn the matter to the attention
of the Commonwealth Government.
Monday:— Special! Two aircraft-carriers,
with a destroyer escort, have been dispatched
from Renmark to intercept enemy attempts to
cross the Murray. The enemy is expected to
enlist Soviet aid in having this matter brought
before the U.N. Security Council, on the
ground that the action infringes Section 92 of
the Constitution.
Tuesday:—Position Grave ! Premier’s Rally
Call 1 At a late hour last night the Premier
told the people of N. S. Wales that enemy
pressure all along the fronts was severe and
continuous.
“We have done everything possible,” he said,
“We demanded money from the Menzies Gov-
ernment. They refused. We asked for military
aid. They gave us a few aeroplanes and some
troops. We have discussed this matter right
from the beginning. What happened? Right in
the middle of everything the Menzies Govern-
ment prorogued the Federal Parliament.
People of N. S, Wales, your Government will
not yield. We will fight them in the skies, we
will fight them on the beaches, we will fight
them in the streets. Our policy is one we are
proud of and, if the worst comes to the worst,
and the enemy attacks our gardens and pene-
trates our Green Belt, then we’ll be forced to
increase fares and this will lie at the door of
the Menzies Government and its policy of
financial stringency. I ask you not to lose
courage, for the moment one grasshopper
comes over the Katoomba Line it will be
reported to the Minister for Agriculture and a
conference will be called at once.”
This Morning;—Flash! Great Victory at
West Wyalong. Last night our troops, assisted
by the R.A.A.F., surprised an enemy force and
inflicted 4,356,000 casualties in dead, wounded
and prisoners. As reliable sources put the total
enemy forces at 675,000,000,000 it is felt that
the West Wyalong victory has definitely
shortened the war.
POLITICAL POINTS
Although a peaceful calm pervaded
Parliament House at Canberra last
week the State Parliaments were
talking their roofs off. The Sydney
joint, in between exchanges of com-
pliments between the Speaker and
his ejectees, got its teeth into Cahill’s
bill to Make the City Council Look Re-
spectable. In Spring-street, Cain per-
suaded the Upper House to legalise his
Tatt.’s Grab, accepted that Chamber’s
amendments to his Long Service Leave
bill and introduced a measure to bypass
the Arbitration Court and include c.-0.-l.
adjustments in State awards. Premier
Hawke, of Westralia, also brought down
legislation to this end.
• •
Moussadek’s trial began in Teheran on
Sunday. No announcement has yet come
from Moscow as to the date fixed for
Beria’s trial. The site of his grave hasn’t
been mentioned, either,
• •
In a statement to the Press and over a
Sydney radio-station Speaker Lamb;
“God has given me a job to do and I
shall do it just as long as it is His will.”
Truly, “ in a mysterious way His
wonders to perform.”
• •
N. S. Wales Cabinet and caucus alike
approved an amendment to the compul-
sory-unionism bill. The bill had included
a clause putting an end to the practice
whereby unions giving information lead-
ing to convictions for breaches of awards
receive half the amount of the fines; the
whole fine was to go to consolidated
revenue. The unions having objected to
the clause. Cabinet and caucus agreed to
delete it, so that the unions will still get
their blood-money. “Labor,” according
to the late Ben Chifley, has always detested
pimps and informers, but apparently this
is different.
• •
N, S. Wales “Labor” executive has
picked its team for Sydney City Council
elections under Cahill’s new Act. It
chose a Rugby 'Union XV, though the
most “Labor” expects to get in under pro-
portional-representation is a League XIII,
with a strong possibility it might even
turn out to be a Soccer XI.
All the chosen are aldermen of the
present Council; eight of their colleagues
missed out and not one of the 16 non-
alderman candidates got a guernsey.
Lord Mayor Hills won the preselection
ballot for the right to wear the rabbit-
skins next year, beating E. C. O’Dea
23-8. O’Dea was thereupon given first
place on the aldermanic card.
• •
Quarterly adjustments are now a High
Court issue, the A.C.T.U, having been
granted an order requiring the Arbitration
Court to show that its action in suspend-
ing cost-of-living adjustments is consti-
tutional. Hearing will begin on Dec. 1.
This news was probably received with
praise and thanksgiving by the N. S. Wales
Cabinet, which will now have the best of
excuses for not making up its mind on
c.-0.-l. adjustments, until the High Court’s
decision is known. Sub judice is
“Labor’s” favorite motto.
• •
So far. Premier Cahill hasn’t answered
the New England demand lor a
referendum on new States, and presum-
ably the New England new-State move-
ment will ask shires and municipalities
to hold one in connection with the l.g.
elections in December. A vote in the
Glen Innes election in 1950 overwhelm-
ingly favored a new State.
• •
More than 20 shire and municipal
councils have notified the New England
New State Movement that they will hold
referendums on the new-State issue in
conjunction with 1.-g. elections in Dec.
Sydney efforts to cast doubt on their
power to do so can be treated with
contempt.
• •
Among the Victorians who line up for
their two-bob cost-of-living rise will be
the members of the State Parliament.
Some interested Melbourne taxpayer
ought to apply to have the Parliamen-
tarians brought under a Federal award.
• •
Hollway’s breakaways are to form a
new party. They’re to call themselves
the Victorian Liberal party and they dis-
claim any connection with the L.C.P. or
the Federal Libs. The announced in-
tention is to contest “more than 20
L.C.P. and C.P. seats” at the next Vic.
elections. Hollway claims his men are
the true Liberals. His claim would be
much stronger if he announced his in-
tention of capturing a few “Labor” seats.
L.C.P.-leader Bolte has christened the
new party the Hollway-Lovegrove Labor
party. Dinny Lovegrove is the big noise
at Melbourne Trades Hall.
• •
Queensland’s first fully-mechanised
coalmine, the State mine at Collinsville, is
now in full operation and mechanisation
is now to be extended to other State
mines at Ogmore and Mt, Mulligan.
Because mechanisation of Collinsville
took longer than was expected, two ship-
A.L.P;
RAFFERTY RULES IN N.S.W.
ments of coal for Japan which should
have gone from that field were supplied
by N, S. Wales. The third ship loads
at Bowen this week. Full contract is for
100,000 tons.
• •
Transferred from Service Department:
Arthur C. (Melbourne): No, it is Clive
Evatt, not Bert, who has voiced his objec-
tions to compulsory unionism. Bert is only
the one who helped to frame the Declara-
tion of Human Rights!
• •
Cosgrove is still considering his next
move in the Tatt.’s war. He says there’ll
be no Tasmanian State Lottery, but bis
Government may issue a licence to run
a big sweep, possibly using the name
Tatt.’s,
• •
Wren’s death revealed another of those
newspaper deals. As near as can be
worked out. Wren bought Brisbane “Daily
Mail” in 1915. Then he tried to buy the
“Courier,” but failed. Keith Murdoch
subsequently bought it, and the pair
merged their interests and produced the
“Courier-Mail.” They differed on
politics, Wren being “Labor,” but agreed
that Murdoch, the journalist, should direct
“Courier-Mail” policy as long as it paid
p.c. annually. If it failed to do that.
Wren was to direct policy. It didn’t fail.
The company was Queensland News-
papers, Ltd. Now Murdoch’s estate has
sold the interest in Queensland News-
papers to Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.
(Melbourne). Murdoch was managing-
director of that show when he died.
Presumably Wren’s estate still owns half
Queensland Newspapers, Ltd.
Though it is rumored that the first
onslaught of the Australian armed forces
on the grasshoppers caused heavy casual-
ties, this won’t be confirmed until the
number of prisoners taken is computed.
• •
Under compulsory unionism in N. S.
Wales those who pass the “conscientious-
objectors” test will be required to pay an
annual sum equal to the appropriate union
dues into Consolidated Revenue. How
long will it be before a way is found of
passing this on to the unions?
• •
Chief Democrat Kenny, of Sydney
Trades Hall and member of the N, S.
Wales Legislative Council;
If compulsory unionism is not intro-
duced the Labor Council will have to
form a committee to force non-unionists
to join the unions.
What kind of force? Basher-gangs,
third-degree, moral suasion or strikes?
It doesn’t really matter which. The
essential point is that one of our alleged
lawmakers is prepared to advise a section
of the community to take the law into its
own hands.
• •
Fadden has announced that he “hoped
a report on the Dajarra railway-link would
come before Federal Cabinet soon.” He
added that it “involved a lot of money
and a lot of ifs and buts.” Probably
too much and too many.
• •
According to what a Trades Hall
official told the “Sydney Morning
Herald,” one alderman, quizzed by the
“Labor” executive concerning £6OOO in
his bank account, said a refugee “had
given him a lot of money.” The alder-
man’s name was not disclosed, which is
a pity. It should be inscribed on the
Trades Hall honor-roll in recognition of
the first “Labor” man in 50 years who
hasn’t ascribed his financial success to a
lucky win at the races. But perhaps the
refugee was a bookie!
• •
Opposing the Tatt’s bill in the Vic.
Legislative Council MacLeod (Hollway
Lib.) forecast that the gambling habit
would spread and that before long people
would be going without their breakfast
bacon-and-eggs in order to buy tickets.
What bacon-and-eggs?
• •
Wollongong City Council granted a
co-operative concern permission to build
a £70,000 warehouse. N.S.W. Minister
for Local Government Renshaw there-
upon instructed the council to revoke the
permission, saying the proposed building
conflicted with the Illawarra Planning
Scheme. The council bucked, the
Minister made “further inquiries,” and
the revocation was derevoked or whatever
the term is. But it shows what trials and
troubles follow planners and Ministers
who listen to them.
What is to be the position under the
Cahill Industrial Conscription law of the
man who, refusing to join a union, is
denied the right to work? Is the Com-
monwealth to pay him unemployment-
relief simply because Cahill won’t let
him work? And if the Commonwealth
Employment Service finds him a job can
Cahill refuse to let him take it?
• •
Tom Playford last week began his
sixteenth year as Premier of South Aus-
tralia. He is easily ahead of all other
Australian Premiers, past and present, in
length of tenure and not-so-far behind
Mackenzie King, the Empire title-holder.
• •
Hollway wants to know why Cain’s
suburban railways stick to the old system
of first- and second-class carriages; he
describes it as “a delicate form of snob-
bery.” It’s a thing that always amuses
Sydney and Adelaide visitors to Mel-
bourne ; both cities went over to the one-
class system years ago. There’s only one
class in Melbourne trams and buses. Why
not on trains?
• •
The Playfords have introduced a bill
to increase motor-registration fees by
from 37£ p.c. to 50 p.c. and to double
driving-licence fees. Estimated increase
in revenue is £1,100,000 a year. But
the whole of the additional money will
be spent on road-maintenance and -con-
struction. That makes the increases
somewhat reasonable, but it doesn’t con-
sole motorists who are paying more than
£25 million a year to the Commonwealth
in petrol tax, the money going to a
nebulous “national development fund
which includes roads.”
• •
Menzies told radio-listeners that “two
tremendous errors” characterised public
thinking: (a) Belief that the Government
was an all-powerful, artificial body de-
tached from ordinary people, and (6)
that the State could do things more effec-
tively than the people could do them.
If Menzies is right then the main reason
why these two things are features of
public thinking is that they are features
of Governmental and public-service
thinking.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
OUCH a pother as there’s been in a
town in the Auckland province of
New Zealand has ne’er happened since
the De’il mad 6 off wi’ the exciseman. The
family of an elder of the Howick kirk
won an art-union prize of considerable
dimension. Suspecting that the elder had
“But, darling, they'll look TERRIFIC when you're playing
horses with junior."
a leg-in in the sinful practice of gambling
the meenister demanded that the parish
session should discipline him. At this the
elder resigned from the parish diet and
appealed to the Auckland Presbytery.
That body declared that, without bating
one iota on the gambling evil, it felt
that “an individual’s action should be
governed by his conscience.” Whereat
the meenister shook the dust of Presby-
‘'nanism off his shoon and resigned from
the church. — “Uramao.”
“Narumee”: Scene: a quiet street in
a quiet suburb. An immense van with
the single word “Explosives” lettered on
the front drew up by a small, dark shop;
certain packages were extracted from the
van’s interior with care, borne into the
shop and deposited in the farthest corner
of it; a paper was signed, and there was
mumbled conversation. Then driver and
van departed. What cooked?
Preparation for civil defence
against atomic warfare (Dumps,
ammunition, decentralisa t io n
of)? Local Reds plotting sabot-
age? Wreckers anticipating
demolition of dilapidated build-
ings? No. Stocks for Guy
Fawkes Day.
■£< ♦>
“Mac Hoots”; Whenever a
Melbourne Cup comes up I
think of my friend Doha Ribush,
who came from Russia to pro-
duce chocolates and fine Chek-
hov plays in Melbourne. He
landed on a Cup day, so he used
to tell me, knowing little of the
language and nothing of our
strange customs. There were no
taxis —they were all at the Cup.
The shops were all shut —for the
Cup. All the hotels were booked-
out and he couldn’t get a bed —
on account of the Cup. In the
whole town nobody said any-
thing but the Cup, the Cup, the
Cup. “But vot vos this thing?
Vos it tea, vos it coffee?” Ap-
parently nobody thought of ex-
plaining that a cup meant a
horse-race, and Ribush thought
he had landed in a city of
madmen. I suppose there are
New Australians today just
about as puzzled as he was, if not by the
word “Cup” then by our extraordinary
religious fervor on the great day.
* ❖ *
“Pawang”: Devotion to science? Every
member of the Antarctic expedition due
to leave Melbourne on January 10 will
have had his appendix removed by Christ-
mas so that there will be no chance of
his being a burden on, or danger to, the
expedition like Dr. Serge Udonikoff, who,
through no fault of his own, caused
H.M.A.S. Australia to make a dash to
Heard Island in 1950 through one of the
worst blizzards on record. Yet it is the
most difficult thing in the world to get
people to submit to the magnificently-
organised free X-ray chest examination
for t.b. at Melbourne Town Hall, though
it only involves walking in at the front
door and out again three minutes later.
without even having to take your shirt
off.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jasby”: The organisers of the 1908
reliability contest erred in good company
in believing that competitors would find
the Bering Straits frozen over. Five years
after that event Conan Doyle wrote The ■
Poison Belt, in which the earth in its
journey through Space passed through a
belt of gas which knocked put the entire
population of the globe with the excep-
tion of two small groups of scientists,
one in England and one in America, who
had foreseen the catastrophe and shut
themselves in gas-proof shelters till the
danger was past. One of the English
survivors, discussing the possibility of
linking up with the Yanks, suggested that
the party should walk across Europe and
Asia, cross the frozen Bering Straits and
then hike on down to Washington or
wherever it was their American colleagues
had their hideout. Doyle’s development
of the story made the little stroll un-
necessary, which is rather a pity. It would
have been worth while reading another
hundred pages just to see the look on
the faces of the team when, after hiking
“I've had a most trying day, too. Miss Smith. A beastly customer's game."
eight or nine thousand miles, they found
themselves faced with the job of swimming
the ice-cold straits.
*l* *l*
“Euroclydon”: Jugged hare (B.
28/10/’53)? When Long Bill the star-
boarder brought home a hare, the guest-
house cook was dubious about tackling
the highly-flavored juggery. “Forcemeat
balls and port wine,” she said, scanning
the cookery-book. “Where’ll I get the
wine?” Bill promised to get some from
the pub next door. “Miss McSweeny’ll
give me the wine, but she wants some of
the hare, too.” The high whiff failed to
rouse Bill from his Sunday-morning rest.
“I’m waiting for that wine,” the cook
warned him at eleven o’clock. At mid-
day Bill upended the lazy 6ft. of
him, and asked for a jug to get the wine.
With a more-than-usually pleasant smile
the cook handed him a jug and told him
to hurry. He got the wine all right,
but when he gave it to the cook she
calmly drank the lot. “You can’t do
that —it’s for the hare!” Bill protested.
“No, it’s not,” said the cook. “I sent
young Tommy in for that lot an hour
ago.”
*l* *l* ❖
“Bellfield”: What shakes me about the
change in the family-doctor tradition (B.
21/10/’53) is the practice of giving local
practitioners Christian-names in the
manner of boxers or jockeys. In my
youth the local doctor was either an
austere-looking young man to be con-
sulted with the same stand-to-attention
respect as when fronting the schoolmaster,
or an elderly, awesome figure whose aura
of knowledge struck us dumb. Now I
hear rival factions gathering clients for
their favorite medicos in such terms as:
“Go to George Wattsisnaime —if he can’t
fix you up nobody can.” Or, “Peter
Hoozit will do me for a quack,” etc.
But the ghost of my boyhood inhibitions
nearly threw a fit when it heard a chap
telling of his youngster’s illness: “He’s
doing all right, now—Jean Looksplus
came up and gave him a needle”
“Zake”: It was not until we were
about three-quarters of the journey into
town that the chap sitting alongside me
in the train nudged me and, when I
looked up inquiringly, silently pointed
down. I nodded and, after I had done
the four buttons up, it set me thinking
that it wouldn’t be a bad innovation if
males were to be lined up for in-
spection, military fashion, before being
let loose in public. Also, that the double-
breaster coat, cut rather long, is a great
improvement over the short edge-to-edge
one.
“Macquarie”: A slight commotion in
the narrow Redfem street below our
scaffold drew my attention. Down the
footpath raced a fair-haired young man;
well behind him ran two older men, A
car coming towards the runners stopped
in the middle of the road and out leapt
the driver. He dashed across to intercept
the runner, but had lost ground in getting
out of the car. “Get him!” yelled one
of the pursuers. The chase went out of
sight around a corner. About five
minutes later the cardriver returned and
climbed back into his seat. “Did they
get him?” I called. “No; he’s still go-
ing,” was the answer. “What was it all
about?” I asked. “Got no idea,” came
the amazing reply. It was most unsatis-
factory—like finding a thriller open at
an exciting page, then discovering the
end missing and the front pages gone.
And I’m still trying to figure out the
motorist’s viewpoint. Was he a wrong-
righter who impulsively decided that only
guilty people run? Did the spirit of the
chase overcome him? Or couldn’t he
get into enough trouble on his own
account so had to butt in on something
he didn’t know anything about?
“Spinifex”: Readers of Bulwer Lytton’s
Last Days of Pompeii will remember how
blind Lydia led her bewildered friends
safely through the inky blackness of the
doomed city. On a Sydney street-corner
recently I saw a stranger seeking direc-
tions from a newsvendor who was com-
petently explaining the layout of the
cross-streets and tram-tracks. It was
evident he knew the city as he knew the
back of his hand. Nothing remarkable
about that? Well, no—except that the
man who was giving the directions was
stone-blind.
❖ ❖
“Uidhist”; Britain has many historical
links with Greece, but one not so historical
is recorded by Lord Frederick Hamilton.
While on a visit to one of the Aegean
Islands in the 1880’s he attended divine
service in a village church, mainly out of
curiosity. Assuming that the recital of
the communion service was in ecclesi-
astical Greek and therefore unintelligible
to him, he did not at first pay much atten-
tion to the words used, but gradually it
dawned on him that there was something
strangely familiar in the priest’s accent.
To his astonishment he found the com-
municants being advised in broad Scotch
to “Tak this, ye limmers. If it does na
dae ye ony guid, it will na dae ye ony
hkirrm!” The celebrant was a middle-
aged and much bewhiskered Scotch sea-
captain masquerading as a Greek Ortho-
dox priest.
❖ ❖
“Fons”: The American tradition of
not directly quoting the President (B.
4/11/’53) reminds me that my French
friend, Jacques, out here on business a
couple of years ago, was shocked when
he saw the famous name “Roosevelt”
shining from Abie Saffron’s night-joint
at King’s Cross. Nevair, nevair would
such a thing be permitted in Paris —where
it would be considered not only bad
taste, but an insult to the former head
of a great State. When you think about
it, th&re is something to be said for this
point of view. Usage, I suppose, takes
the sting away for locals, but there is no
telling hpw such things strike a stranger.
FREE VERSE ON FREE BOOKS
“The Health and Recreation Committee o
Sydney City Council has recommended tha
fines on overdue books at the City Publi
Library be raised to 2d. a day from the Id. i
has been for 44 years.”
Amaryllis, Amaryllis, beside the fountain
Cease to grovel
Over that hovel-novel —*
The fine is mountin’.
It you regret
Your early environment wasn’t dirtier,
On account of you might have been
slum-child, and thus much punier.
It may come, yet;
For costs are rising all along the line,
And the Free Library is doubling the fine
Amaryllis, Amaryllis, give up that hero,
Who puts you in a stupor
Like a cross between Gary Cooper
And the Emperor Nero;
You know by heart what he can do
And that the girl he does it to
Is, strange to say, somewhat like you —
To your surprise and {hurry up!) to
mine —
The Free Library is doubling the fine.
Amaryllis, Amaryllis, where is that “Study
Of the Relation
Between Minoan Excavation
And Sewerage Reticulation”
By Professor MacGillicuddy —
The book you took.
The time you thought you ought
Improve your mind ?
It’s still got uncut pages ;
You’ve had it now, for ages —
We’ll he fined !
Amaryllis, Amaryllis, where is that Detec-
tive ?
It’s not good taste to lend
Detectives to a friend
Whose sense of property is so defective.
A Perry Mason might. I think
Manage to keep us out of clink.
But not teach borrowers the difference
between “Thine” and “Mine” —
Meanwhile the library is doubling the
fine !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


ADVERTISEMENTS of two rival
circuses are providing cut-and-thrust
in the Melbourne papers in the true tradi-
tion of the Ring. No. 1 announces itself
as the largest in the Southern Hemisphere,
and boasts that it will arrive by “Special
Train, being too large to travel by road.”
No. 2 states that it is “positively” Aus-
tralia’s largest circus, but does not dis-
close its method of transport, merely
adding loftily: “It’s not the way you
travel —it’s WHAT you travel!” —
“Nacres.”
<£♦ ❖
“Muskeen”: Admitted to the A.G.H.
at Katherine (N.T.) with a temperature
of 104 deg., I became a problem for the
diagnosticians. Malaria had never be-
come epidemic in the N.T., but they were
very suspicious of me, as I had just
returned from Arnhem Land. Tests for
malaria and jaundice were negative, how-
ever, and then interest was further aroused
when one of the hospital’s M.O.s remem-
bered that I had been a patient at the
Ist A.G.H. at Gaza Ridge in 1940. How-
ever, this interest subsided when they
found that my stay at Gaza was prior to
the Syrian campaign. Eventually my
temperature dropped and I was dis-
charged. I later saw my casualty report,
so I know that officially 1 was admitted
suffering from pyrexia and discharged
cured of pharyngitis. I wonder what I
really had.
“Dalmore”: Service-numbers nowa-
days are no indication of length of service
in the R.A.A.F.; the service was re-
numbered several years ago. In any case,
many of the old hands tried civvy life for
a couple of years before they decided to
make the service their career, and many
of them had to start over again. I was
surprised one night to find a main-gate
guard wearing pilot’s wings and several
service ribbons. They were genuine, and
he is now an L.A.C. engine-mechanic.
Another afternoon, after helping an arma-
ment bod. arm the turrets of a Lincoln,
I met him in the airmen’s mess. Although
an A.C.I, his jacket bore a gunner’s wing
and D.F.M. ribbon of his war-time
service.
“Taffy”: I have always considered
Goulburn a pleasant town but have never
stayed there long enough to get to know
the inhabitants. My par. about lilac (B.
21 1 10/’53), however, has been the means
of proving to me that the town must
house some very pleasant people. One
of them went to the trouble to wire The
Bulletin for my address, and now a
large box of lilac has reached me by
express post. With it was a note: ‘ Sorry
the weather let you down so badly—but
it does grow here! Goulburffite.”
*> ❖ ❖
“Enn Kay”: A baby girl in our suburb
has been christened “Coronette” in com-
memoration of the events of June last, but
in modern times few people rise to the
heights of imagination in nomenclature
displayed in Cromwellian days—especi-
ally by some clergy whose job was to
name foundling children within their
parishes. The Oxford Dictionary of
English Christian Names quotes, as
common examples, “Helpless,” “Repent-
ance,” “Lament,” “Forsaken,” and “Flie-
fornication,” while in 1644 an unfortunate
foundling girl was labelled “Misericordia-
adulterina.” Nor did the ministers un-
charitably bestow their most imaginative
efforts away from home; among
parsonical families are recorded “Much-
Merceye,” “Increased,” “Sin-denie,”
“Fear-not,” “Renewed” and “Safe-on-
high” ; while legitimate children of the
parishes, if not given Biblical names,
could innocently bear such titles as
“Sorry-for-Sin” and “No-merit.”
❖
“Tonsi”: That section of the Press
which regards square-dance personalities
as idols wouldn’t report the remark of
our local barber. “They tell me Jim’s
doing pretty well as a square-dance
caller,” he said. “Believe he’s making
more money than he did when he
worked.”
❖
“Crunch”: There might be something
in what “Lord Luvus” says about limiting
drinking-time (B. 23/9/’53). Sometimes
after work we nip in for a couple of
quickies and find ourselves still there at
six because the beer is getting better
and better with each glass. By about
six it tastes like nectar and you reckon
your mates are the best bunch of blokes
in the world. You’re feeling fine, so
you toss off your current glass and gather
’em up for the next round. But the
bar has closed down! A burly bioke
tells you, “Time, gentlemen, please! ” Six
o’clock! Already! There’s nothing for
it but to go home. It’s worse than closing
a book in the middle of the most exciting
part. Most of the time 1 couldn’t care
less about closing-time, but that six-
o’clock feeling in a pub is the strongest
argument I’ve ever felt for extended hours.
Of course, given time, we might drink
ourselves past liking it, and “Lord
Luvus” might be right. But why take his
word for it? I want to try it for my-
self!
❖ ❖ ❖
“F.S.”: A somewhat cryptic statement
by Councillor Ryan at a Collingwood
council meeting seems to require
elucidation. He said that while religious
denominations were decrying filthy, de-
grading and indecent literature some
statues in Melbourne gardens and at the
National Gallery were just as bad. “But,”
he added, “statues are called art.” It
would be interesting to know which
statues he regards as filthy and degrading,
Does he include Bertram MacKennall’s
Circe and the Greek Aphrodite? One
thing they have in common, if I remem-
beir rightly, is nudity, and if he is going to
define nudity as filthy and degrading he
will have to condemn all the cows and
horses in the country. The only other
statues in public places that I know of are
a stift effigy of Mr. Justice Higgins in
his judicial clobber, an equally stiff
effigy of Adam Lindsay Gordon in riding
costume, King George V on his charger,
General Monash, Tommy Bent in a frock-
coat at the crossroads at Brighton, Burke
and Wills, and the few remaining copies
of Greek gods and goddesses in the Fitz-
roy Gardens, which, however, have been
covered with so many coats of whitewash
that it is difficult to know what their sex
“The boss doesn't look nearly so important on the beach."
is. If the councillor means the plaster
storks and other fauna in suburban
gardens I will unhesitatingly agree with
him.
♦ ♦ ♦
“K.M.”: “Macquarie’s” story (B.
7/10/’53) of the lady seizing the gear-
lever instead of her umbrella reminded
me of the day I accepted a lift from a
temperamental friend. I sat beside her in
the front seat and in the midst of dense
traffic I heard a shriek and the car wobbled
dangerously. She had grabbed the handle
of my chubby in mistake for the gear-
stick and imagined that it had suddenly
come loose in her hand.
* * ❖
“Peers”: “C.S.’s” comments (B.
28/10/’53) on surgery and beasts are
appropriate. They remind me of the
time one of my female relatives ended
up in the dentist’s chair after she’d tried
to catch a cricket-ball with her teeth.
Old Pullem swore that the only time he’d
had a like case was when a local
identity brought his dog along after a
similar incident. Pullem didn’t tell the
vets, about it.
♦ ❖ *
“Salmon Gums”: Perth’s evening
paper, the “Daily News,” has outgrown
its premises and shifted a few hundred
yards down St George’s-terrace to News-
paper House, where the “West Aus-
tralian,” the morning paper, is published.
This practically completes the amalga-
mation of journals which for years were
keen rivals, and once were bitter enemies.
That was when Hackett —later Sir Win-
throp—edited the “West” and Arthur
Lovekin ran the “Daily.” Arthur Reid,
a prominent early Westralian journalist
and owner of the Kalgoorlie “Sunday
Sun,” once bought a rotary-machine for
£2OOO from Hackett, who told him he
could make £5OO on the deal if he liked,
because Lovekin wanted it and would
pay £2500 for it. To the obvious ques-
tion Hackett said “I wouldn’t sell any-
thing to Mr, Lovekin.” Later, in 1910,
the W.A. journalists formed an associa-
tion and presented a log of claims to the
proprietors, who joined forces to con-
sider it. Lovekin held out, alone, against
the journalists’ demand for three weeks
holidays on full pay, and finally said he’d
get over it by sacking his staff at the end
of 11 months and re-engaging them,
Hackett said “That might suit the Daily
News,’ but it would never do for the
‘West Australian. The scubes got their
holidays. Don’t know what sort of a
news-service operates where newspaper-
proprietors go, but if the news of the
amalgamation leaks through there’ll be no
peace for the other inhabitants until the
two old diehards settle the question of
who swallowed whom.
* ❖
“Hill-st.”: Don’t know how long it
took to make a piper (B. 4/11 /’53), but
in old Celtic times conditions were equally
exacting in other arts, particularly in
poetry. Among the early Irish the ollamh
(i.e., doctor of poetic literature) had to
be able to recite 50,000 lines of poetry
before he could use the title. As late
as the 18th century, according to corres-
pondence of Herder, the German poet,
a bard in the Hebrides was able to recite
Ossianic verse for five hours a night for
a whole month, without repetition.
$ * ♦>
“W.H.M.”: That cry of “Where’s
Nora?” by which the men of the “Black
Line” sought to exasperate their fellow-
aborigine-collector Jorgen Jorgensen (B.
7/10/’53) carried definite implications.
Jorgensen was a man of many loves, and
while stationed at Ross as district-
constable, he met Nora Corbett, became
enamored of her charms and duly married
her. She helped him as a kind of female
detective, and was indirectly the cause of
several worthies being brought to punish-
ment (some to the gallows) by using her
feminine arts to obtain information which
she passed on to her spouse. Nora kept
her lord and master in his place, and in
this connection, too, she was well known
with regard to her treatment of the one-
time “King” of Iceland. Old chroniclers
relate that one of the sights of Hobart
Town was that of Jorgensen racing along
the streets pursued by a shrieking woman
hurling obscenities at him while she
brandished a broom or frying-pan.
Nora died suddenly one day from stout-
ness and overabundance of bad liquor;
but the widower seems to have left
amongst his literary writings no poems
of sorrow concerning her demise.
❖ * *
“Ymar”: America has its own difficult
minority problem, that of the 630
Seminole Indians in Florida who have
never legally capitulated to the U.S.A., so
still refuse to obey its Government. Their
right to do so was recognised during
World War II when, though all American
nationals were drafted for war service, the
Seminoles claimed and were allowed total
exemption.
* ***
“Sister Ellell”: Our little unit was being
inspected by the Matron-in-Chief. I
warned our two chefs that their domain
would probably be honored by a visit, and
hoped for the best. After ward-inspection
the official party approached the kitchen.
The C.O. threw open the door and te
called “Stand fast,” he inadvertently
kicked a biscuit-tin and out scuttled a
cockroach. Despite my hurried prayer,
it did not miss the watchful eye of the
M.I.C. “What” said she to the first
chef, “cockroaches in the kitchen?” “Oh,
no, Ma’am,” he stammered. “Only the
two of us!”
DEPRESSED INDUSTRY
“It is sad but true that, whilst the writer ot
prose has in general a steady market tor his
wares, that of the poet has in recent times
shrunk severely. His vista for the future isn t
bright.” —Radio Speaker.
Decades ago the bard reaped fair reward.
He could afford
The best habiliments; he also dined
On fancy fodders.
In unpoetic parlance he’d no need
To bludge a feed, u
For, strangely, poets’ pockets were “well
lined,”
Even the plodder’s.
The “fleshly poet” (which made Oscar
Wilde!)
By Gilbert styled
Lily in hand, dreamy, surrounded by
Adoring damsels
Spent much more time with knife-and-
fork than pen.
O happy then
The rhymester, selling rhymes as easily
As tin of jam sells.
But half-way through the 20th century
What do we see ?
The poet wrestles with trochaics till
His cerebellum
Reels. And though at five-foot iambic
line
He well may shine.
Despairingly he now regards his quill —•
He just can’t sell ’em.
Some do, it has been claimed, appear in
print.
Less, though, by dint
Of pestering publishers till those hard
men
At long last soften,
Than paying themselves for it to be done.
They might sell one
Tome to some rather simple citizen ;
Not very often.
The old tragedian, it has been said,
Oft breakfasted
On walk round town, a smoke and then
a spit
When roles were fewer
Than “hams." He who the Muse must
needs embrace
Now takes his place.
The poet has become, one must admit,
The infrequent chewer!
N.s.w.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Notched, the other day, a decade as
Anglican Archbishop of Brisbane, Dr.
Reginald Halse is a big man in a big
job. Besides Queensland, his territory
takes in the N.T. and New Guinea, But
geography holds no terrors for the man
who came here as a Bush Brother in
1915. Born in England, the reverend
doctor went to St. Paul’s School, London,
where, in the same year, he was captain
of the Old Boys’ football-team when one
Bernard Montgomery captained the
school team. At 72, there’s still a good
deal of the hale about Halse.
• •
Auckland barrister Harold Eric Barrow-
dough began as a private with the First
N.Z.E.F., and finished up in that war
a battalion-commander in the Rifle
Brigade, with D.S.O. and M.C. Back in
khaki for the 1939 breakout, he com-
manded the 6th N.Z. Brigade in the
Middle East, added a bar to his D.S.O.
at Sidi Rezegh, and won the Greek M.C.
From then on he rose like a rocket, so
that, at the end of War 11, he was G.O.C.
of his country’s Expeditionary Force in
the Pacific, and C.B. Fifty-nine, he’s done
all right at law, too —appointed, the other
day. Chief Justice of New Zealand.
' • •
Commander Crabb, D.S.C., R.A.N.,
officially Gordon John Branstone, un-
officially “Buster,” big, blond, with a
vertical back, was launched in London,
son of an R.A.N. commander. In the
first batch of snotties to wholly complete
COMMANDER
their training at Flinders Naval Depot,
he was a junior officer in the Sydney when
she sank her teeth into the Italian Barto-
lomeo Colleoni in the first cruiser duel
of the war. If Crabb had any doubts
about gunnery as a career, that action
settled ’em. He left the Sydney for a
gunnery-officer's course in England, and
went to sea again in destroyer Arunta,
whose quick-firers barked at Arawe, Cape
Gloucester, Saidor and the Admiralties.
He had two more destroyers before the
final sponge-out. The other day he was
appointed commander of the naval depot
which, green and eager, he left for sea
close on 20 years back.
• •
Sydney will see one of the latest film
innovations when Hoyts equip the Regent
with Cinema Scope—ae—a process made pos-
sible by Professor Henri Chretien, of
France, with his “anamorphic” lens, which
compresses the full field of vision of two
human eyes onto a standard 35 millimetre
film. The film is projected through a
compensating lens onto a curved screen
over 50ft. wide and the illusion of depth
is added to by light on thousands of
small mirrors set in the screen. With that
goes “stereophonic sound” —recorded on
four separate magnetic tracks at point of
origin and diffused through 12 amplifiers
around the screen and auditorium so that
voices and sound-effects seem to come
from whoever and whatever makes them
and not from the screen in general. Hoyts,
who anticipate spending about £1,500,000
fitting it in their main film-houses, have
Basil T. Wedmore advising and instruct-
ing on the new equipment. Wedmore, a
neat, quiet Englishman belonging to
Western Electric, London, was lent to
20th Century Fox for 12 months which
have since stretched into two and a half
years, and he looks like ambling all over
the world wherever Cinema Scope goes.
Hailing from Hertfordshire among the
film studios, he was a radar expert with
the R.N.V.R. in the war and finished up
as Port Radar Officer at Liverpool.
The British Institution of Mining
Engineers had awarded its Douglas Hay
Medal only three times till, the other
day, the fourth award landed on the
experienced Welsh shoulders of David
Watkin Phillips, Professor of Mining
Engineering at the N.S.W. University of
Technology. Holding a string of engin-
eering degrees from universities in Car-
diff, Manchester and Cambridge, the
professor had 12 years of practical min-
ing before he climbed out to become
principal scientific officer, and then chief
safety-engineer, of the British National
Coal Board. He settled in the Sydney
Chair in 1949. Present honor stems from
his outstanding work in solving problems
of strata-control and on the physical
properties of coal-measure strata. He’s
54.
• •
Toowoomba on the Queensland Darling
Downs—which produced A. G. Stephens,
Steele Rudd, Essex Evans and water-
colorist J, J. Hilder —has formed a Local
Artists’ Scholarship. First to benefit is
18-year-old George Roubicek, a native
of Austria, now at the city’s grammar-
school. On the Recommendation or
Anthony Quaylc and John Alden he’ll
be sent to the Royal Academy of Dramatic
Art in London, on £3OO a year for two
years.
• •
“P.0.M.C.”: Passed on at Dubbo
(N.S.W.), at 82, Jim Dowling, horticul-
turist with a flair for growing prize roses.
Alderman, president or chairman of
numerous associations or committees,
good Australian and poet, he was a
gentle but wise old-timer, staunch advo-
cate of decentralisation. His passing
snaps one of the few remaining threads
with the tough old days outback ; indeed,
in the literary field, Jim was probably the
last of the typical bush poets. From his
“Dream Teams,” which first found print
in The Bulletin :
Last night along the Castlereagh
The blazing campfires shone.
In timber-belts along the way,
As in the days long gone.
I saw the flames high leaping fling
Far shadows through the trees,
And heard the near-by horsebells ring
Old bush-night melodies.*.
This from his requiem to “Banjo”;
Through Australia tears are shedding, o’er a
rumor lately spreading,
That our poet, Banjo Paterson, has crossed
the Great Divide.
It is wrong, this information; he is still within
the nation,
On the droving tracks of long ago—our
Banjo has not died.
And to plenty of Australians, especially
out west, Jim Dowling hasn’t either.
• •
The Victorian Symphony Orchestra has
joined the ranks of Australian orchestras
which have been recorded. Departing
“permanent” conductor Juan Jose Castro
waved the baton. As a gesture of grati-
tude and affection his own pianoforte
concerto was selected and Hephzibah
Menuhin was soloist, so the disk should
be worth buying.
• •
Calling it a day after 50 years of Gov-
ernment employment, C. C. Hilary, Chief
Administrative Officer of the Westralian
Agricultural Department, leaves his chair
for field-work in the garden. Born in
Adelaide, he became a clerk in the West-
ralian Lands Department in 1903. Since
then his only breaks from the State service
were in 1910-11 (staff-sergeant-major in
the C.M.F.), and when he served on the
Western Front as captain and adjutant
of the 44th Battalion, A.I.F. Off to
London in 1937 as secretary to the W.A.
Government offices there, he took up his
post in the Agricultural Department on
return home in 1948. His ability with
the pen extends beyond the writing of
official minutes; he has written much on
flower-cultivation, and is president of the
State National Rose Society.
4 •
Lindsay Hassett, Australian cricket
captain since Sir Don retired after the
1948 tour of England, has put his pads
away on his return from this year’s.
Slightly-built, a good after-dinner speaker
and popular with team-mates and
opponents, Hassett did a fine job as
skipper. He also earned his place with
the bat. This year in England he notched
a century in each of the first two Tests,
and though Australia lost, Hassett him-
self had a successful tour. All told, he
played in 43 Tests. He was a Wisden
cricketer-of-the-year for 1949, and was
awarded M.B.E. in the last New Year’s
Honors. He’ll keep on with grade-cricket
and will act as State selector; in between
finding more time for his other recreations,
golf, tennis and squash.
As anti-aircraft commander of Sydney
in War 11, Colonel Paterson Lisle Moore
had both A.I.F. and V.D.C. gunners under
his wing. Himself artillery for the
best part of his 56 years, with a variety
of sport to help handle the extra issue of
energy in his short, cheerful frame, he was
bom in the old Hunter River town of
Singleton. While still at Sydney High he
played lacrosse for St. George and
captained the first schoolboys’ team
against Queensland in 1913. He got away
from Duntroon in the last year of War I,
headed overseas to the A.1.F., trans-
ferred to the R.F.A., and also to Rugby
Union, representing Brighton. A period
on the North-West Frontier before re-
turn to Australia, and to a further 16
years of peace-time soldiering, in S. Aus-
tralia and Victoria. Just before War II
he changed over to ack-ack in Sydney,
and on formation of the 7th Military
District was appointed C.R.A. in Darwin.
After a year with coast-artillery in Sydney,
he took on the anti-aircraft command. He
was with Anthony Hordern’s, on head-
office clerical staff, when he passed on
in Sydney the other day.
• •
Sam McAskill, of South Perth, chaired
as winner of the Queen’s Prize at this
year’s meeting of the N.R.A. at Swan-
bourne (W.A.), has been notching bulls
since he was a schoolboy. Now 37, he
joined the South Perth rifle club 21
years back. This year’s effort was his
12th shot at the Queen’s. His aggregate
was 338, out of a possible 355.
• •
Harold Thomas Stitfold adds chairman-
ship of the Royal Perth Hospital board
of management to the long list of execu-
tive positions he’s filled in Westralia. A
well-built 67, he joined the State public
service in 1908, becoming Under-Secretary
of the Premier’s Department and Clerk
of the Executive Council; seconded to
the Commonwealth P.S. in the Hitler dis-
turbance, Deputy-Director of Manpower.
Back to the State in 1945, he held the
appointments of Under-Secretary of
the Chief Secretary’s Department,
Comptroller-General of Prisons, Under-
secretary for Public Health and member
of the R.P.H. management board. When
time and duty permit, he’s an ardent
wielder of the malhie,
• •
Met in the study of the close to a
century-old Moore Theological College,
Sydney, Canon Marcus Lawrence Loane,
new principal. Suitably impressed by the
antiquity and sanctity of his surround-
ings, the caller on him nevertheless had
a perhaps secular eye for such things in
the setting as the beautiful black-and-
white rug which once warmed the
back of an Abyssinian monkey,
the carved ebony head of an
East African native, an exquisitely
wrought wooden table from Aden, and
a lakatoi in full sail from New Guinea.
The canon has also been in Edinburgh,
where he was in charge of St. Thomas’s
—the only C. of E. hold in that foreign
territory. Born in the silver-mining
district of Waratah, in Tasmania, educated
at The King’s School, Parramatta, the
new principal (youngish, good grin, con-
cise voice) was a student in the college
CANON
he is to command, and has been teaching
there —in between travels and a break
as an A.I.F. chaplain round the Kokoda
Trail, Wau and the Markham River —
since 1935. Founded in 1856, the college
has produced some 700 ministers, among
them the oldest living (Bishop Chambers,
first bish. of Tanganyika and now o.i.c.
of the Embassy Church, Paris) and the
youngest bishop in Australia (lan Shevill,
the north-Queensland shepherd).
Coventried hereunder, John Adrian
Fargher becomes S. Australian Railways
Commissioner, on the death of R. H.
Chapman. The new man went from
Melbourne University to the S.A.R. in
1923, and one of his first jobs was the
designing and construction of the bridge
at Murray Bridge. The following year,
promoted draughtsman in charge in the
chief-engineer’s office, he engineered the
rehabilitation scheme of the railways.
COMMISSIONER
State rep. on the Royal Commission which
last year decided the route of the en-
larged-gauge line now building between
Stirling North and Brachina, Fargher has
a son studying civil-engineering. His own
father was sometime secretary of the
Victorian Rifle Association, a Bisley
shooter and a King’s Prize winner.
• •
“Brick E.”: Retired after 39 years
of teaching the arts of bricklaying and
general building construction at Sydney
Technical College, Harry Garvan
takes with him the affection and admira-
tion of every lad he taught and every
instructor he supervised. But even in
retirement “Old Harry” will remain the
equivalent of the Privy Council when a
final decision on a theory problem is
sought. As a practical bricklayer he was
the crushing answer to those who claim
that a brickie is “a laborer with his brains
bashed out” and that a theory man is
a no-hoper on a scaffold; Garvan often
spent a good portion of Tech, vacation on
a job—keeping his hand in. The
recently-produced General Purpose Bull-
nose brick, which has solved the centuries-
old problem of overcoming oblique-
angled corners without cutting the quoin
brick or showing an unsightly indent, was
the invention of Harry, assisted by an
erstwhile pupil. And now, perhaps, the
old maestro may get round to writing the
long-promised book on bricklaying under
Australian conditions. In its field it
should be a classic.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 51, George A. Sweetapple, busi-
nessman, racing and trotting enthusiast and
member of the Westralian Breeders, Owners
and Trainers’ Association. His most successful
pacer, Plunderer, won the Stratton Cup in
Perth in 1948 and 1950, and a heat of the
inter-Doqainion Handicap in 1949. His best
racehorse, Falcon, had several successes in the
eastern States. In another interest, he was vice-
president of the East Perth Football Club.
In Melbourne, Elsy Treweek; known in Eng-
land and Australia for her soprano roles in
leading operas. Her husband, Frederick Collier,
between 1920 and 1936 was successively
principal bass-baritone of the British National
Opera, the Carl Rosa Opera and the Sir Ben
Fuller Opera companies.
In Perth, at 58, Peter Charles Raynor, the
Assistant-Commissioner who looked after the
commercial side of the Westralian Government
Railways, which he joined as a clerical cadet
in 1911, A recognised expert on coal, his main
job in recent years concerned railway coal-
price and supply problems. He was also a
member of the committee which controls the
distribution of coal in Westralia.
In Launceston (Tas.), at 75, Frank Stephens,
founder of the shipping and carrying company
which bears his name. Remembered as a noted
amateur sportsman, specialising in rowing,
golf and tennis, and for a capacity for making
friends and keeping them.
At Kalangadoo (S.A.), at 65, G. C. M. Grant,
manager of the Nangwarry State Mill. Almost
due for retirement, he was a pioneer of hard-
wood milling in Victoria, and was claimed to
have originated, with his father, kiln-drying
of timber.
In Perth, at 72, Frederick James Heulin, end-
ing a 53-years association with public health
and hospital administration. He had been
chairman of Royal Perth Hospital board ot
management since 1939. Bora in London, n«
came to Westralia when 17, worked in a bant
for two years, and joined the State Department
of Public Health. He had completed 45 years
in the publit-service when he retired in 1943.
At that time he was Under-Secretary of th«
Chief Secretary’s Department and of Public
Health, a dual position held since 1930.


GATECRASHING OUTBACK


ABORIGINALITIES
(GRASSHOPPERS! Well, you mightn’t
think they’d eat the green paint off
a veranda at Coonabarabran (N.S.W.),
as reported, and the green wallpaper
in a Coonamble station-homestead, but I
was fielding at deep square-leg in a
Forbes cricket-match once and had to
have a man placed close in with a
megaphone to call the batsman’s shots
because I couldn’t see the wicket through
the flying ’hoppers. It was only a couple
of years later that a bloke went to bed
at the Imperial in Cowra in brown-and-
green-striped pyjamas and woke up next
morning with only the brown stripes left.
And all Greenethorpe remembers the
time when a swarm hit the place and after
they went the nameboard on the railway-
station read ETHORPE, And what about
the time Nabawa Jack drove through
Bogan Gate in a sulky at 37 m.p.h. with
a cloud of ’hoppers following him? Yes,
he had a green colt in the sulky! And
as for Billy Green, on that place out of
Canowindra— oh, all right, don’t get off
your bike! —“Old-timer.”
♦ * * *
“Saaedi”: So far as I
all birds which habitually nest in the
hollow spout of a tree lay white eggs.
Nearly all parrots, and many owls, two
or three species of ducks, two kinds of
kookaburras, several kingfishers and the
Australian roller are included in this
category. The obvious conclusion is that
white is the most fitting color for the dark
places in which the eggs are laid, being
most easily seen, and thus safeguarding
the eggs from damage by the homing
birds. Most ground-nesting birds, of
course, lay eggs which blend in color
with their surroundings. Comparatively
few of them lay pure-white eggs. Two
significant variations from this tendency
are ground-parrots. In their case it is
probably the atavistic influence—their
ancestors probably nested in hollow trees.
These birds are extremely rare.
« * * *
“Swelpme”: Our local milk-oh bought
a trim little bay mare, but several months
later she went lame and was turned out
to grass. The injury didn’t heal quickly,
the pony ate well, did no work, and grew
very fat. Then the relief horse developed
a collar-gall and a boy was dispatched
to bring the mare in. He came back
without the pony, but bearing startling
news. A disbelieving milk-oh drove out
to confound his statement —and found it
entirely correct. Mother and daughter
are both doing well, but where and how
the honeymoon took place constitutes a
major mystery. The previous owner vows
the mare was never on the loose at the
appropriate time, and even if she had
been the only stallions within miles are
racehorses, and their trainers don’t allow
them to roam around in search of
adventure. The milk-oh, with a sense
of the fitness of things, has called the filly
Topsy.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Archaen”: Where did “W.J.W.” get
the idea that mountains once covered most
of Central Australia (B. 21 /10/’53)?
Geological evidence shows there were no
ranges save those whose stumps can be
seen today—and the height of even those
ranges wouldn’t have been sufficient to
attract much rainfall. The Centre’s one-
time abundant rainfall was caused by
gales blowing off the huge snow- and ice-
fields during one of the Ice Ages, when
rainfall-belts were forced nearer to the
Equator. With the Ice Age’s passing,
rainfall-belts moved to their present posi-
tions, with such areas as the Sahara,
Central Asia and our own Centre reverting
to desert. As to the Eyre basin, it is only
30ft. below sea-level. With 10ft. deducted
from this as the minimum depth of the
channel, it leaves a fall of only 20ft. in
the 200 miles between Port Augusta and
Lake Eyre. Water doesn’t “flow” when
given such a microscopic fall as little more
than an inch to the mile —it creeps. The
evaporation-rate in that country is
enormous. Result: the water would
never reach Eyre. It would dry up before
it got there, blocking the channel with
salt. A few years ago Lake Eyre became
"He must have been docked by a plumber."
flooded for the first time within living
memory. Careful observations showed it
made not the slightest difference to the
climate of the surrounding country.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Brick E.”: That young matron of the
“blacksoil country” whom the artist de-
picted in the nuddie killing a snake (B.
28/10/’53) did a good job, considering
the Hobson’s choice she had of weapons
at hand, though a hoe certainly has the
advantage of fairly long range. To stand
in front of an oncoming snake, especially
if he is a tiger, means you’ve got to
shorten your range mighty smartly, hit
with a short, quick stroke, and make a
bird of the first wallop. You can attack
from behind; I did—once. He was a
black, and like most blacks preferred to
get away without trouble. There was no
"Wonder where they got the name ?”
stick handy, but a stack of bricks. I
grabbed one and pelted it down violently
at the escaping wriggler. It was a near-
miss, but that merely made hiffhgo faster,
and the scrub wasn’t far away. I snatched
up a brick in each hand, raced after him
and had another go. Another near-miss.
In my eagerness I, too, went close. Sud-
denly I was teetering back on my heels
with my spine curved rearwards like a
reaping-hook as Joe stood up on his tail,
swung his sft. 6in. backwards, and shot
out his scaly jaw. He just missed. Since
when it’s invariably something long-
handled for me.
* * * ♦
“Clunesman”: So far as counting cattle
on the track goes (B. 14/10/’53) there’s
no need to hustle the stock as “Gulliver”
claims. As they string along the count
can easily be taken, for even the wildest
beast will quieten down after being on
the road for some time. In any case, a
good drover doesn’t need a count to
discover several missing head. Once
cattle settle into the routine they more
or less take up the same position each
day, and it is comparatively easy for him
to see whether a roan is missing from
the lead or an old cock-horned bullock
from the tail. This sorting-out in regular
order also applies to dairy-cattle. At
Badgery’s Creek (N.S.W.) scientists have
discovered that a cow always in the lead
will lower her yield if milked out of turn.
Cows used to being milked last are quite
happy to let others go, but those in the
middle always want to be near the top.
Those “social climbers” are the tempera-
mental ones and must be handled accord-
ingly.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Woorarra”: I had a gill-bird’s nest
under observation. The eggs had hatched
and both parent-birds were absent, search-
ing for tucker to feed their voracious off-
spring. A butcher-bird, with murder in
his eye, landed on a limb just above the
babies and was just savoring the juicy
morsels before he’d begin spearing opera-
tions, when from some distance off came
the harsh aggressive cry of a gill-bird.
Butcher stiffened, glanced nervously
around and, suddenly remembering an
urgent appointment, elsewhere, made off
at top speed. He’d have had plenty of
time to commit his crime before decamp-
ing, for the parents didn’t reach home
for fully a minute after the screech, and
they were probably unaware of the dire
danger to which the family had been
exposed. In the bird world it is obvi-
ously a great advantage for young chicks
to select as parents fowl with a widespread
reputation for ferocious retribution against
evildoers.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: Near Allandale (S.A.)
there is a huge cave in the middle of the
main road from Mt. Gambier to Port
Mac Donnell. It is enclosed by six
chains of fine stonewall placed diamond-
shaped, with “Keep Left” signs at each
end. The district is full of limestone
caves and subterranean rivers, and in the
days when teams drew the wool to the
port-—before railways came Mt, Gam-
bier’s trade was water-borne to and from
the port—a bullock-driver watering his
team at the cave mouth is supposed to
have lost a worker, which turned up
later three miles away on the ocean
beach. ,
* * ♦ *
“Salmon Gums”: The gnamma-holes
of West and South Australia have never
been fully explained. Usually more-or-
less circular, with a small opening and a
large cavity, they vary from 2ft, to 12ft.
across and from a few inches to Bft. in
depth. The generally accepted theory of
their origin assumes a weathering of parts
of the granite differing from the rest in
texture or composition, coupled with a
certain amount of water-wearing and some
assistance from wild animals and abo-
riginal man. I hold a different theory,
gained from watching a stone whirling
in a small pothole in a rock-ledge on a
beach. The stone weighed about a pound
or so, and each incursion of the tide
sent it whirling around crashing against
sides and bottom. The wearing-down
process would be slow, but Nature has
plenty of time; and bigger rocks and
stronger tides would speed the process.
This action would account for the puzzling
shape of the gnamma-holes, which often
get wider as they go deeper. With a
greater fall and volume the inrushing tide
would give correspondingly greater action
to the revolving stone.
♦ * * ♦
“Laetitia”: That some confusion
exists in our own country as to just what
a papaw-tree is is shown by a song-and-
dance put on recently at a Victorian
State school concert in which the
youngsters warbled “Picking up papaws
in the papaw-patch,” and performed
quick stooping actions, seemingly de-
signed to illustrate the garnering of
strawberry-sized fruit from vines.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Burindi”: I had picked up the new
hand at the station and was to take him
in the mail-car to a property out in
the valley. When we came to the last
gate I said, “Well, this is where you’ll
be working.” Just then Harry Jenkins,
riding past, gave a wave and a grin. You
could see he’d been lamb-marking—he
was blood from boots to eyebrows. The
young bloke, who had come straight from
Melbourne, took one look and said in
a queer voice “Who’s that?” “It’s your
new boss,” I told him. “He’s an easy-
going sort of bloke.” “Well, if he gets
in that state when he’s easy-going I’m
not keen on seeing him when he’s wild,”
he said, “You can take me back to the
station right away!”
* ♦ * ♦
“Villefair”: Last Christmas Murph.
won a duck in a raffle at the local. He
bqi'e it home with great elation and was
just dragging out the execution-block
when Mrs. Murph.’s beaming smile began
to fade. “That duck’s sick,” she declared.
“Look at her! I’ll bet that’s why they
raffled her.” The bird certainly did look
like —well, a dying duck. A stay of
proceedings was decided on. The duck
moped through the holidays, managed to
survive the New Year, then made an
astounding recovery. “We’ll have her
for Anniversary Day,” Murph. decided.
They didn’t. She took sick again. With
Anzac Day coming, Murph, invited an
old Digger mate and family up. “I’ll
knock Quackie off for dinner,” he told
his spouse. Mrs. Murph. was horrified.
“What! Eat her after she’s been one of
tlie family all this time?” she exclaimed.
“Lord, you’re a cannibal!” So Quackie
lived on —at Murph.’s expense; but he
seethed with the conviction that he’d been
got at. A Boy Scout drive gave him
a diabolical inspiration: he donated
Quackie, to be raffled. The lucky ticket
was drawn, a couple of Scouts bore the
duck off to her new owner —and brought
her back. The lady didn’t hold with
raffles; she’d only bought the ticket to
help the Boy Scout movement, Quackie
is still living on the fat of the land—'
and Murph.
SUMMER ON THE FARMLANDS
Summer is on the farmlands, and the leap
Of the foal along the slope
Laden with gossiping trees
And leaning to water
Bursts the hoops of grass and wakes the bees.
Isobel whistles to the sun
On the hill that shoulders the stone,
Her switch a cord of gold
Around the morning,
And the calling cattie seem to be centuries old.
Love is on the farmlands, and beauty has come
Like an old dream home.
And the exile remembering alone
The sound of earth’s labor
Bears a longing great as the shouldered stone.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


TRUE stories of
deceptions that
shocked the world!
m
\\>as
Former crime reporter Ron
Ingleby reveals the breath-
taking audacity of some of
the arch counterfeiters of
history. Don’t miss each
complete weekly story pre-
sented with the good wishes
of the distributors of Ranch
Tobacco.
V\
Jke MACQCARIE f
2GB - SAW - 4BH -SDN - 6!X - 7HO
2HR 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
The ALL-BRITISH
O&nd, t/ie
No. 28
47/6
No. 58
60/-
i;“
7fve 7*en wvt(v
tk& fHaA#e£&ruA Hihf
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD., LONDON
S. W. RAMSAY
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
f OTHER
MODELS
No. 60 65/-
No. 388 42/6
No. 85 35/-
No. 70 30/-
DiNKIC 25/-
IHAVE lived for nearly 30 years on
the Thalaba Creek in north-west
N. S. Wales, and had thought the name to
be of aboriginal origin until I read “The
Letters of Rachel Henning.” In her
letter written from The Peach Trees on
March 18, 1870, Rachel refers to having
enjoyed reading Mr. Southey’s “Thalaba”
and “Kehama” very much. Now, it
would be difficult to imagine anything
more un-Australian than Robert Southey’s
marathon poem “Thalaba the Destroyer.”
It is a highly imaginative story of Arabian
fantasy and legend, and it is a wonder
how such a name came to be transferred
to a very prosaic creek winding through
the blacksoil plains. Whatever the
answer may be it is certain that Rachel
wasn’t the only admirer of Southey, for,
in addition to the creek, the name was
also bestowed on a town near Crookwell.
—“Jackpot.”
* * * *
“8.H.”: Touching on sight-line sur-
veying through thick bush (B. 14/10/’53).
In 1901 a young kangaroo-shooter
named W. Hoole offered to assist a family
who wished to squat on a 10-mile-square
block in hilly, rugged country near Mac-
Intyre’s Gap, Thargomindah (Q.). There
were four such blocks in the district, as
shown by an old land-survey map.
Assisted by the father and son of the
family, Hoole, using an ordinary 100 ft.
tape and a pocket-compass set up on a
home-made tripod, measured from the
known surveyor’s-peg near Macintyre’s
Gap Hotel and found (by guess) the
starting-point. Then uphill and down
gully and through virgin bush he traversed
a line for a boundary which was later
fenced. When an official survey was
made seven years later it was found that
the line was only 24yds. out in the 10-
miles run.
* * * ♦
“Lower Tops’l”: Williamstown, Vic-
toria’s oldest town next to the Yarra city,
is losing two historic landmarks—the old-
world Breakwater and Gellibrand piers
where for upwards of a century wind-
jammers and tramp-steamers loaded
wheat for almost all the ports in the
seven seas. The breakwater is being dis-
mantled and the V-bay between the piers
is being filled in with millions of giant
stones as a foundation for the erection
of two huge oil-tanks which
the century-old, timo-ball tower alongside
which the convict superintendent, John
Price, was killed by a chain-gang in 1857.
At the base of the V are to be oil-tanker
berths —Melbourne’s first outside the
Yarra—and the liquid is to be pumped
to refineries near Altona Bay. Hundreds
of Williamstown locals are lamenting
the change. Those two piers were un-
questionably the best shore angling spots
in Port Phillip Bay.
♦ * *
“Horseless H.”: The increasing number
of faster-moving cars in the last year or
so has almost eradicated the magpie popu-
“I think you could have hired a more suitable type of entertainer."
lation from the main Victorian highways.
Since the war the black-and-white
carollers near the bitumen had taken to
the easy life of feeding on the myriads
of insects killed on the roads by the
vehicles, but with drastic results. From
Horsham to Orbost and from Echuca
through to Portland today you will see
hardly a maggie. Their place has been
taken over by mudlarks —peewees to you
outsiders —and Willie Wagtails. Yet you
never see one of these birds the victim
of hit-and-run drivers. Their survival
is due possibly to their upward-soaring
helicopter-like take-offs, or they may be
better judges of oncoming pace than the
maggie.
“Fairf”; No doubt the Indians knew
and used for fibre the leaves and stems
of what we, as kids, used to call “canna-
lilies.” Now a Sydney man has an-
nounced his proposal to cultivate them on
a large scale to supplant the scarce and
expensive jute. I hope he succeeds. The
idea of the once-humble Wagga-rug being
worth anything from a quid to 30s. for
the four cornbags in its make-up is a
branch of inflation I’ve never been able
to accept.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Tim Burr”: The natural order of
plants known as the Casuarinece, which
include bull-oak and she-oak (B.
28/10/’53), contains only one genus and
about a dozen species. All are common
to Australia, but only one species extends
beyond this continent. The botanical
name is derived from the similarity of
the slender “leaves” (actually branchlets)
to the feathers of the cassowary (zoo-
logical genus: Casuarius ). The true
leaves of casuarinas, however, are the very
small and pointed scale-like parts at the
joints of the green branchlets, which,
together, perform the functions of a
normal leaf. With the exception of the
species commonly known as belah, the
casuarinas are famous for the very con-
spicuous medullary rays in their wood.
When the timber is cut on the quarter
these rays give it a vivid oak-like figure
or grain, hence the term “oak.” The
term “she” originated from the sound
made by the wind blowing through the
slender branchlets. The name “bull-oak
is irregular, the correct and common name
for one particular species being buloke.
The casuarinas are of especial botanical
interest through being a link with primitive
vegetation predating all true-flowering
types of plants.
* * * *
“Kros”: “The tremendous reserves of
water in the world” (B. 28/10/ 53) are
in the sea, and mankind will have to tap
seawater if other water-supplies are in-
sufficient. The U.S. has already found
out how to take the salt out of seawater
at relatively low cost by use of a filter
made of coal-tar and petroleum pro-
ducts. Australia may profit when large-
scale use of this process becomes possible.
Another important method of desalting
sea-water may be found when the time
comes for the peaceful use of atomic
power —the means used to reduce the
terrific heat generated by atomic explosion
will probably be seawater, which, changed
at first to steam, will be cooled down to
fresh water.
* * ♦ ♦
“H.A.L.”: The legend of human giants
could have been founded on fact. Dis-
covery in South-east Asia of fossil human
teeth twice the size of those possessed
by modem man, together with other
bone fragments, showed that Megan-
thropus, the long-extinct giant man,
stood nearly 11 feet high and was
massive in build, with characteristics far
more human than apelike. Apparently
he couldn’t adapt himself to great changes
m climate and living conditions, such
as those which occurred during the
alternations between hot and cold of the
Ice Age. The smaller types of human
beings were far more adaptable, and so
the ancestors of modern man survived.
♦ * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: In Shepparton (Vic.) a
bloke rushed enthusiastically at us,
grabbed Mat’s hand and pumped it up
and down, crying, “Gee whiz, it’s a long
time since I seen you! Where you bin?
Mat eyed him carefully, then said, “Sorry,
mate. You’ve picked the wrong horse.”
The bloke laughed. “You always was a
bit of a wag,” he said, affectionately.
“But don’t come at that with me, boy.
I’d know your ashes in a bone-yard.”
Mat pursed his lips. “You’re off the
track, mate,” he said civilly. “Aw, look,”
the cove said, “come off it. Down in
Penshurst, it was. Don’t you remember,
the night we took the two sheilas to
the dance out at” “That’s right!”
whooped Mat. “And don’t you remember
you borrowed a couple o’ quid from me
an’ said you’d” But the bloke sud-
denly saw someone else he knew and
shot across the street “You got to be
quick,” Mat said, and led the way into
the pub.
MOONAH CREEK
On Moonah Creek the pelicans sail by
With gravity of mien, where fish abound,
And Territory cattle, rail-head bound,
Pause here to drink and rest, the long, hot, dry
Stage left behind. But few the passers nigh
This quiet corner where the days are gowned
In sunlight slashed with shade, and, dying,
crowned
With diadem of stars, and peace reigns high.
Here, where content confers her blissful boon,
Dawn, clear-eyed, lights the plain’s long solitude,
Waking the topknot pigeon’s soothing croon;
Cicadas shrilling endlessly exclude
Care through the sultry somnolence of noon,
And eve is drowned in a deep quietude.
N.S.W.
HUI TE RANGIORA.


Fail/, in ihc
JUituj+e
dsf
“The wealth of a country is the work of its
people, and the more mechanised they are the greater
their output will be.”
My good friend and engineering associate of the
years, Major-General Sir Clive Steele, packed that
enormous truth into one sentence when he delivered
the Stawell Oration in Melbourne recently.
I have a profound admiration for Sir Clive as an
engineer and as a man; for his commonsense and
practical approach to the business of national develop-
ment.
And because we know one another so well, I’m
taking the liberty here of quoting freely from his
oration. It points so vividly to our most pressing
needs in nation-building—work-power and mechanisa-
tion :
“The application of power to all industry is of
increasing importance to this country.
“A two-horsepower pump will pump as much
water as five men—a 100-horsepower bulldozer wifi
do the work of 250 men. This ratio of one h.p. to
2-f men was one of the main contributors to winning
the war in the Pacific.
“A bulldozer is much easier to feed and to
hospitalise than the several hundred men it replaces.
“The massive task of transforming scrub-covered
desert lacking trace elements in western Victoria and
South Australia into productive land carrying \\ sheep
to the acre was almost entirely accomplished by
machines working many times faster and more effec-
tively than men, unaided, could do.
“Five times the total area of Victoria could be
made productive in New South Wales and Queens-
land by adding trace elements to the soil.”
We need more men with the sense and skill of
Sir Clive Steele; more scientists such as those in the
C.5.1.R.0. whose work on trace elements has widened
far the estimate of the population Australia will hold
in full prosperity.
If we use our brains, we’ve nothing to worry
about. But the watchword is Faith.
/V. JyeeStsHy
The Past and the Future
It was in Australia in 1877 that
Thomas Sutcliffe Mort installed
the first cold storage plant in the
ship “North am”.
/AUSTRALIANS have played
a prominent part in invent-
ing and perfecting many of the
things which have proved so im-
portant in the development of our
nation.
This bank, too, was founded, in the
early days, to assist the progress of
the Colony. To-day, still owned and
controlled by Australians, we offer a
modern and efficient banking service
to those who seek it and to those
who wish to take part in the further
development of our country.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 18S4
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LIMITED
Business Rollery Etc.
Cost of Government
TOURING the current financial
year it is estimated that Com-
monwealth departmental expen-
diture will increase from £46.4
million to £48.7 million. Largest
spender is the Department of
Civil Aviation, with £lO.B mil-
lion (down £228,176). The
Treasury is next, with £8 mil-
lion ; of this, £6 million is in
respect of salaries of the Taxa-
tion Branch. The C.5.1.R.0. is
in for £3.7 million, Trade and
Customs for £3.4 million.
National Development, with
£906,000, is allocated £229,413
less than last year, largely be-
cause of transfers to the Atomic
Energy Commission. The De-
partment of the Interior will cost
£3.5 million this year, and
administering Works will run
into £2.3 million.
These departments do not in-
clude the post-office. Common-
wealth railways or any other
“business undertakings,” except
Civil Aviation, against the ex-
penditure of which is to be offset
an anticipated income of £4
million, mostly from the
P.M.G. for the conveyance of
airmails. Civil Aviation’s figures
do not include those of the Aus-
tralian National Airlines Com-
mission. The cost of pensions,
“free medicine,” etc., is not
included in departmental
expenses.
Commonwealth departmental
expenditures, subject to these
provisos, are estimated to run
into £48.7 million out of a total
Budget expenditure of £987 mil-
lion during the present year. Of
the year’s estimated £2.3 million
increase in departmental charges,
it is reckoned that wages and
salaries will go up by £l.B mil-
lion and general expenses by
£511,000. The wage-increase
takes into account cost-of-living
adjustments up to August, 1953,
which are put at £1 million, and
£809,000 is accounted for by
reclassifications, increments and
the recent increase in rates of
pay for juniors.
The total number of Com-
monwealth employees who came
under the Public Service Act was
14,500 lower at June 30, 1953,
than it was in May, 1951, when
the decision was made to reduce
the number of public servants
by 10,000. The actual number
employed at June 30 this year
was 130,552, including 72,289 in
the post-office. These figures
relate only to people employed
under the Public Service Act,
and exclude employees of some
Commonwealth authorities. But
official statistics show that,
including the staff of such
entities as the Commonwealth
Bank and the Snowy Mountains
Authority, total Commonwealth
employment registered a decline
of 8400 between May, 1951, and
June, 1953.
Felt and Textiles
At June 30 last stocks held by
Felt and Textiles and its subsidi-
aries were down to £5,873,619,
compared with £11,679,701 two
years earlier. The outside debt
has been correspondingly re-
duced. Profit for last term was
£506,054, compared with a loss
of £473,577 in the preceding
period, when ord. shareholders
were passed by. An 8 p.c. dis-
tribution is being made this time,
out of earnings equal to 11.6
p.c. on ord. capital.
Earnings in respect of the first
quarter of the current period are
at the rate of over a million a
year, before providing for in-
come-tax, chairman R. J. Web-
ster has announced. He men-
tioned that the 1952-53 profits
included nothing of an abnormal
nature, and were not appreciably
affected by the recovery of
amounts previously written-off.
(Some other woollen-textile con-
cerns, notably Patons and Bald-
wins, have mentioned “write-
back” of previous overdeprecia-
tion of stock as having affected
the year’s results.)
The Feltex combine has been
reorganised into four divisions
—wool, felt and carpets, textiles
and footwear. Partly because of
its phenomenal growth in its
first 15 years as a public co.
there appeared to be some
flabby spots in the Feltex con-
stitution when it was struck by
the fall in wool-prices and trade-
recession at the end of 1951.
Manufacturing and distribution
have now been reorganised, and
the board intends to overhaul
finances and strengthen the com-
pany. In all reorganisation ac-
tivities the management should
be helped by the continued high
demand for floor-coverings. The
slipper-trade is also operating at
a high level.
At 295. Felt and Textiles ords.
yield 5.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. The business appears to
be in better shape than for some
years.
Ampol Exploration
On the strength of rumors
so fantastic that they seemed to
be pure leg-pulling, Ampol
Exploration ss. shares (now
paid to 25.) went to 235.
in Melbourne last Thursday,
with a top price of 20s. in Syd-
ney. At 20s. a share Ampol
Exploration’s fifth-interest in
West Australian Petroleum (the
drilling co.) had a market valua-
tion of £4 million, and the
whole venture £2O million.
Every movement of a shilling
a share in the Exploration co.
means a movement of a million
pounds in the speculator’s valua-
tion of the drilling co.’s pros-
pects.
Thousands of Ampol Explora-
tion shares changed hands as un-
listed stock at these prices, and
on Thursday the Sydney official
turnover in Ampol Petroleum
shares—this co. owns 2,800,000
of the 4,000,000 shares issued
by the Exploration co. was
12,300, at prices up to 12s. for
the ss, shares. (The Petroleum
co. has an issue of 8,158,000 ss.
ords.)
On Thursday evening West
Australian Petroleum an-
nounced ;
In view of the current rumors cir-
culating, relative to the discovery of
oil in Rough Range [Well] No. 1,
near Exmouth Gulf, W.A. Petroleum
management has stated that during
a recent routine test of formations
it encountered a waxy residue of no
prospective commercial value, which
was recovered at surface, along with
drilling-mud and water.
Following this announcement
the shares crashed to 13s. 6d.
on Friday morning, and other
oil issues in no way related to
Ampol dropped in sympathy.
The Ampol drop, on the scale
beforementioned, represented £6
million in the market,
C
Southern Aluminium
A public issue of 1,999,993
ords. of ss.'each is being made by
Southern Aluminium, Ltd., which
was formed in Sydney in Jan,,
1951, by the Larke, Hoskins
group to extrude aluminium
pipes, angle-sections, furniture,
window - frames, aircraft-parts,
etc. Capital grew from £43,202
at June 30, 1951, to £200,002 at
June 30, 1953, when £95,000 of
it was owned by Larke, Hos-
kins, Ltd., £103,000 by Neal
Investments (in which Larke,
Hoskins have a “substantial in-
terest”), and £2002 by others.
Five acres of land has been
bought at the Sydney suburb of
Enfield. A factory is being built
and plant is arriving. Net tan-
gible assets at June 30 last
totalled £175,716. Proceeds of
the present share-issue are ex-
pected to finance development to
the first stage, where a 2200-ton
extrusion-press, a tube draw-
bench and ancillary equipment
will be operating. This is esti-
mated, with outlay to date, the
new £299,998 share-issue and up
to £70,000 of bank accommoda-
tion, to run into £570,000,
Production on a one-shift
basis is expected to begin during
March-May, 1954, and three
shifts early in 1955. By the end
of 1955 it is expected that “the
result of a successful year’s trad-
ing” will be shown, estimated at
20.6 p.c. on capital. In the
second stage of expansion it is
estimated that, at an additional
outlay of £420,000, production
will rise from 1080 tons a year
to 2000 tons, and profits on an
increased capital are expected to
lift to 27.4 p.c.
Present imports of aluminium
ingots are said to be ample for
initial requirements. In 1954
supplies are expected to be aug-
mented from operations by the
Australian Aluminium Produc-
tion Commission in Tasmania.
The prospectus points out
that the present consumption of
extruded aluminium products in
Australia, per head, is about a
quarter of the figure for Britain
and a seventh of that for the
U.S.A. Cost of the extruded
article in relation to steel will
have a bearing on whether Aus-
tralia is to catch up to Britain
or America in the use of
aluminium sections.
Generally speaking, there ap-
pears to be a wide future ahead
of the aluminium industry.
Much will depend, in the present
case, on costs of raw material
and extrusion. But any protec-
tion granted the Tasmanian in-
dustry should automatically flow
to concerns engaged in process-
ing the product.
The board of Southern Alu-
minium is made up of H, J.
Brigden, R, C. Neave, G. R.
Allman, P. J. Larke, E. J. Culey,
W. J. Locke and E. R. Lane.
General manager is G. B. Foote.
Brokers to the issue. Tonkin and
Plasto, Sydney.
The £1 shares in Metropolitan
Cement dropped below ss. the
other day, recovered, then
dropped again. The co. carries
on by the grace of the Rural
Bank, which has a greater stake
in it than shareholders have
themselves. The probable future
of the co. is still something to
ponder over. The going will be
tough.


dfg
ONLY
A FEW WEEKS
to Xvxu#
Make sure of your new camera
while there are good stocks. All
goods are available on lay-by or
special easy terms. No interest charged if paid off
in three months. We send C.O.D.
ORDER NOW!
SPECIAL, INDIVIDUAL,
developing and printing
SERVICE
t
Cairns Camera Centre
Hotel Australia Building:,
19 Martin Place, Sydney. BW 9556.
r CAIRNS
CAMERA
ICENTRE.
LINKING
MANUFACTURERS
\ wwv
>*wW
WITH
MARKETS
New markets and new sources of supply are
constantly being uncovered through A.N.Z. Bank's
Trade Enquiry Service.
This service, operated through thousands of A.N.Z.
Bank's agents in all parts of the world makes a
most important contribution toward the maintenance
and expansion of Australia's oversea trade.
A.N.Z. Bank’s Trade Enquiry Service is available
to Australian businessmen through the Manager of
the Bank's nearest branch.
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
BANK OF THE UNION BANK
AUSTRALASIA • OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Established 1835 Established 1837
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji, and in London.
Agents in all parts of the world
—wan—MM————iANZ.24. 355
now open!
TUC
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
LOAN
Guarantees every Investor
1 4'IS‘X
per annum
For the next 15 years!
One of Australia’s oldest and largest public utilities, the Sydney
Water Board offers you a Government-guaranteed per
cent, annually.
Subscriptions and interest are free of exchange in terms of the
Prospectus. Your interest can be credited half-yearly to your
current or savings account.
An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W.,
Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania
Invest promptly AND profitably!
Call at any Commonwealth Bank, the Sydney Water Board, or apply through
your Stockbroker. Ask for a Prospectus and application form.
Issued at par, Loan No. 113 is underwritten by J. B. Were & Son, and closes on or before
21st November, 1953.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
jDRITAIN’S dependence on the
sea-lanes is too well known to
need amplification. The Kaiser’s
U-boats in 1917 and Hitler’s
dive-bombers in 1940 might have
brought her to her heels were it
not for the courage of a com-
paratively few seamen and
fighter-pilots.
People have lately been in-
quiring, with irritation and
anxiety, whether the reverse now
obtains. A stick of bombs can
arrest a factory’s production,
but so, too, can a stoppage of
its fuel-supply.
Now that the trade-unions
have won their battles for
recognition and acknowledged
and established their sense of
responsibility to the nation as
well as to their members, strike-
action on a large scale is out of
the question. In theory, at any
rate, “machinery” has been set
up to cope with all manner of
grievance, dispute and negotia-
tion.
In practice, strikes continue to
break out, although in a new
form. A few enginemen, on the
ground that they objected to
lodging-turns, have managed to
dislocate the railway system.
Only recently the efficiently-
organised Electrical Trades
Union bared its menacing teeth
by calling out “key” men in
establishments vital to the
nation’s security. And then 2500
tanker-drivers and their mates
took fright at the oil companies’
reorganisation measures and
come out on strike.
Their action has shown that
London can be brought to a
standstill within a week. Not
only does the cutting-off of
petrol mean that the buses, com-
mercial vehicles and private cars
are reduced to impotence, but it
also spreads to essential services
as various as the baking of
bread, the running of factories
and the disposal of sewage.
In this instance the degree of
intervention by Communists is
hardly relevant (although they
neglected no opportunity to
keep the strike alive), for the men
had real fears which, however,
were later proved to have no
genuine basis. The deadlock
occurred because the strikers de-
manded to negotiate direct with
the employers. The employers
would deal only with the union.
And the union would not act
until the men returned to work.
Meanwhile, with their usual tact
and constructive patience, the
Minister of Labor and his staff
have had to tackle the job that
properly belongs to the mam-
moth, clay-footed Transport and
General Workers’ Union.
The seriousness of the threat
was marked by the backing of
the Opposition to the bringing-
in of troops. Housewives, who
were short of meat because of a
strike at Smithfield by members
of the same unwieldy union,
were angry. Indeed, the public
generally is sick to death of nav-
ing a pistol thrust at its head.
And the “Times,” in an out-
spoken leader, hasn’t a jot of
sympathy for “the selfish few
who hold the nation to ransom.”
It calls for “sanctions, applied
in the courts and in industry and
by the unions, against the
wreckers,” with an all-party
backing.
Parliamentary Tag-end
After nearly three months in
recess, Parliament reassembled
for the customary clearing-up in
the fortnight that remained be-
fore the Queen opened the new
session—the third of this Gov-
ernment —on November 3.
There couldn’t be much clear-
ing-up, though, because of pres-
sure of events. Troubles abound.
Guiana is another colonial sore
added to the existing ones in
Kenya and Malaya. Trieste has
set the cauldron of Europe a-
bubbling. There are persistent
demands, not without party-
political significance, for a show-
down on the four-Power meet-
ing. The Cabinet knows it must
move cautiously upon some
issues—Suez is one —or it will
seriously dismay its own ranks.
With home affairs, consider-
able readjustment is necessary.
The sellers’ market has all but
passed. Buyers are becoming
choosey. There is no assurance
that the favorable terms of trade
that have persisted for a year
will continue.
The Conservative policy of
“setting the people free,” while
gladdening the hearts of busi-
ness-people (especially when re-
inforced by hints of reduced
taxation), is not working uni-
versally to the Government’s ad-
vantage, Not all controls, it
seems, are vexatious, and British
farmers are restive. The Gov-
ernment is deeply concerned
about losing the agricultural
vote, which is more than enough
to bring about its defeat at the
next election.
There are two reasons for
this. Sir Thomas Dugdale,
Minister of Agriculture, had an
uneasy time at the Margate Con-
ference and doesn’t appear to
have convinced the farmers that
British agriculture can flourish
in a free economy, with ration-
ing virtually ended and world
prices falling. The other is the
Republican defeat in the Con-
gressional by-election in Wiscon-
sin. If this emphatic swing of
the agricultural vote away from
the Right is a general tendency
the Government might lose up
to 40 seats at the next election.
Mixed Company
Frances Day, one-time
glamor - blonde of musical
comedy and lately Shavian
heroine, has now added “Ltd.”
to her name and gone into
management. Her first produc-
tion, “Blind Mari’s Bluff” (St.
Martin’s Theatre), has an
interesting history.
Two playwrights, one in Ger-
many and the other in Ireland,
heard of the same true story of
a small-town doctor who was
accused of poisoning his wife
and whose pigheaded disregard
of his attorney’s advice enabled
the prosecution to lay bare some
unsavory aspects of his charac-
ter. The two authors decided
to collaborate. One was lynst
Toller, a martyr and passionate
idealist whose introspection later
drove him to suicide. The other
was Denis Johnston, Irish man-
of-the-theatre.
But what has emerged, 20
years later, hardly suggests a
perfect fusion of two minds. It
can no longer be taken for
granted that Oirishry, packed
with arch-circumlocution and
choked with blarney, will be
amusing and dramatic in its own
right. In (this play the light re-
lief is supplied by a caricature
of a smallholder whose whole
life (and, indeed, the doctor’s) is
tied to memories of his dead
cow. Too much cow and too
much blarney bring irritation,
not interest.
And the combined message—
the law’s harlotry and a
neurotic man’s compulsive self-
ruination —is tendentiously
garbled. Dennis Price’s realistic
playing invokes no sympathy for
the unlovable doctor, and Eliza-
beth Allan, as his unhappy
mistress, is plainly infected by
his neurosis.
The second act is exciting and
thrilling, perhaps the best court
scene ever written. A laconic,
dispassionate judge (Newton
Biick) presides over a duel be-
tween a shrewd but pompous
defending counsel (Douglas
Wilmer) and a rubicund but sly
prosecutor (Hugh Manning).
The arrogant nationalism and
defiant self-sufficiency of a State
witness (Alan MacNaughtan)
seem to derive from Toller’s
anti-Nazism, but his truculence
is always compelling. John
Phillips is at once patiently
tender and strong as the State
solicitor who is not so profes-
sional as to be indifferent to the
abiding claims of justice.
After that the play droops to
anticlimax in the release and
homecoming of the embittered
prisoner to what, literally, is a
“scene” of the worst kind. It is
a pity, dramatically, that the
ungrateful and egotistical doctor
seems so little worth fighting
for.


Capital (paid and uncalled) and Rcaervea, £969,938.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS;
*V Alt "“ d “ Stewart (Chairman), G. S. Colman,
C. 8.8.; G- D. Young, W. Sydney Jonea, J. Cuming
Stewart, Hugh R. Syme.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jonea.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C, (Chairman),
i'.?^ wa JL lacJer; Slr Leslie Morahead, K.C.8., K. 8.8.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D., Thomas B. Heffcr; V?. Sydney
Jonea.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria, in 1878.
Protect your Estate from
“Human Element” Risks
The appointment of an individual as
Executor of your Will may be fraught with
risks. He may become ill, die, leave the
country, or be fully occupied with his own
affairs.
By appointing the Trustees Executors and
Agency Co. Ltd. you secure, at a fixed and
moderate cost, a permanent reliable
Executor.
Write or call for free booklet .
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,938
TR14A.35
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney)
/~\NE of the largest and most-up-to-date
department stores in Australia, the
115-year-old D.J. business continues to
expand. Last term two additional stories
were added to one of the co.’s three large,
attractive and well-placed shops in the
heart of Sydney, and activities were ex-
tended to the country, the 82-year-old
business of David Copland and Co, Pty.,
Wagga, being bought for cash at an un-
stated figure—shares in subsidiaries
(£89,862) increased by £42,399. The new
offshoot is showing “satisfactory” results,
and plans are in hand for extensive altera-
tions to its premises. The parent also owns
three other subsidiaries and a number
of decentralised clothing-workrooms and
-factories and a food-processing depart-
ment, all of which contribute to the pool.
The other offshoots are Selby Shoes
(Aust.), Ltd., largest manufacturer of
ladies’ footwear in the Commonwealth;
Marlborough Productions Pty., which
distributes throughout Australia many of
the lines made m the factories; and St.
James Tobacco Distributors, Ltd., which
controls sales in N. S. Wales of several
popular brands of tobacco and cigarettes.
Post-war net earnings and distributions
of the parent have stepped along in this
way:
, Dividends
■ Ist 2nd
' Net Pref. Pref. Re-
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 74 p.c. Ordinary, serves.*
£££ £ * £
1945. .163,929 9000 18,750 10 p.e. = 81,000 1,152,046
1946. .207,630 9000 18,750 10 „ ~81,000 1,250,925
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 1,150,925
1947 . .233,315 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 91,000 1,265,490
1948. .276,960 9000 18,750 124 „ ~113,750 1,400,950
1949. .221.039 9000 18,750 10 „ „ 95,000 1,499,239
1950. .291,169 9000 18,750 10 „ „ 95,000 1,067,658
1951. .338,146 9000 18.750 10 „ ~106,375 1,871,678
1952. .280,270 9000 18,750 10 „ ~140,500 1,983,698
1953. .391,559 9000 18.750 124 .. ~176,625 2,171,882
* Excludes workers’-eompensation reserve, £68,749,
1953.
Outstanding features last term were the
remarkable recovery of £111,289 in net
earnings and lift in the div. from 10 p.c.
to 12| p.c. Subject to unforeseen de-
velopments, the board intends to maintain
the rate at 12£ p.c.; with few exceptions
it had been kept at 10 p.c. ever since
1906.
The slip of £57,875 in the 1952 profit
followed the balance-of-payments crisis
and swing from a sellers’ to a buyers’
market, together with a scramble for
liquidity, squeeze of profit-margins and
sharpening of competition, etc. The re-
covery last term was due to a combina-
tion of fortuitous circumstances, good
management and forceful selling. The
year opened with turnover in the Sydney
retail trade over 15 p.c. below the level
of July, 1951 ; it ended with sales 9.3 p.c.
above the June, 1952, mark, thanks
largely to a bigger wool cheque and rela-
tively small amount of unemployment.
Wholesale prices held well, while retail
prices edged up with the rise in wage
and other costs, and import restrictions
provided a breathing-space in which re-
tailers were able to work down swollen
inventories without mishap.
D.J.’s experience was better than most
others in the trade. Turnover exceeded
£20,000,000 (previous year’s figure not dis-
closed). After setting aside £37,823 (down
£5880) for depreciation, an unstated
amount for taxation and £lOO,OOO (up
£70,000) for the staff fund, the profit was
£391,559, of which pref, divs. called for
£27,750. The remaining £363,809 was
equal to 25.9 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 17.9, 29.1, 27.7, 19.1 and 27 p.c.
back to 1948. The attractiveness of these
ratios owes much to the size of reserves,
£2,171,882 (£366,882 more than paid
capital) when the books closed. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the year’s profit was 9.8 p.c.,
whereas these funds need turn in only a
shade over 5 p.c. to cover the pref. divs.
and 12£ p.c. to the ords.
There is nothing to worry about in the
financial structure, which was rendered
more flexible by reductions in stocks
(down £721,698), book-debts (down
£224,175) and the amount coming to
sundry creditors, etc. (down £868,852):
1961. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,759,070 £1.805,000 £1.805,000
Mortgages, etc. ~ 503,333 503,388 503,338
Sundry creditors* 3,174,426 2,806,327 1,937,4(5
Tax reserve .. 597,346 300,860 546,610
Final divs. .. 72,750 8025 119,250
Freeholds .. .. 1,778,681 1,856,823 2,053,215
Plant, etc 290,802 289,794 309,916
Shares subsids. ... 42,003 47,463 89,862
Advance subsids. 145,151 241,901 79,204
Stocks .. .. 3,829,164 8,460,106 2,788,408
Book debts .. 1,446,594 1,543,319 1,319,144
Cash. etc. .. 446,218 43,946 493,801
•Includes workers’-compensation reserve (£68,749,
1952) and an unstated provision for contingencies.
The cash holding was strengthened by
£449,855. The growth in freeholds (up
£196,392) and plant (up £20,122) was
mainly on account of the two stories
added to the co.’s Market-street premises,
already referred to.
Although turnover has continued to
increase since the close of accounts, no
further benefit to shareholders need be
expected, for some time at any rate. The
market therefore prices the f.-p. £1 ords,
at 465. 9d. (375. a year ago) to return
5.3 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. distribution. The
6 p.c. and 1\ p.c. prefs. at 235. 6d. and
275. yield 5.1 p.c. and 5.5 p.c. respectively.
Net tangible cover is £26 10s. 3d. 6 per-
cents., £l5 6s, Id. 7 i percents, and 50s. lid.
ords. And there is a tidy inner reserve
in freeholds, claimed to be worth about
twice their book-value.
Peters Cons. Milk Industries (Syd.)
TT has been an interesting development.
A Over the last 14 years the character of
the business has altered and the organisa-
tion has grown, by absorptions and other-
wise, from a purely ice-cream concern
into a group of 18 complementary sub-
sidiary undertakings in which manu-
facture and distribution of dairy produce
now predominate. Expansion of opera-
tions is the surest way of protecting
capital and maintaining dividends, the
chairman Still, whether the co.’s
recent entry into the metropolitan milk-
distribution field, etc., will prove as profit-
able as the other sections of the under-
taking remains to be seen.
Shareholders have never failed to re-
ceive a div. since Peters American Deli-
cacy Co. took over F. A. B. Peters’s
Sydney ice-cream business 33 years ago.
Average for the 18 years to 1939 was
11.3 p.c., and for the 14 years since
8.8 p.c. But the 8,8 p.c. is better than
it looks ; it was sweetened with a one-for-
one bonus share-issue in 1940 and by
capitalisation of £374,517 of reserves (6s.
per 14s. share) in 1951, when the name
was changed to the present more appropri-
ate title.
In 1940 the parent transformed itself
into a holding co. and widened its interests
by formation of a new offshoot, Peters
Creameries Pty., at Taree (N.S.W.), which
recently threw off a subsidiary of its own,
Peters Creameries (Grafton) Pty.,
scheduled to get into production before
the close of next accounts. In 1947 a
controlling interest was bought in the
old-established dairy-produce business of
Foley Bros. Pty., which owns a butter
factory in the Richmond River district as
well as an offshoot in London. Early last
term all the 283,904 f.-p. £1 shares in the
77-year-old Fresh Food and Ice Co. were
bought in exchange for 177,441 of Peters
f.-p. £1 shares. For the year to June 30,
1951, the vendor co. showed a loss of
£13,399 and no div. was paid; for the
five preceding years profits averaged
£17,285 and it paid a steady p.c. As
one of the two distributing agents for the
Milk Board, Fresh Food handled about
one-third of Sydney’s milk-supply, bought
from country producers. It also traded
in bread, ice, ice-cream, fish, game and
poultry and owned Byrne’s Exhibition
Dairy at Picton. New subsidiaries have
been formed to take and develop the
various sections of the business. All
other units of the group are in process of
further expansion, too.
Net earnings of the group, to which
the ice-cream co., Taree creamery and
Foley Bros, are the principal contributors
in that order, compare as follows over
the last half-dozen years:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1948.. 96,898 9 p.c. = 78,045 18,853 498,107
1949.. 98,069 9 „ „ 78,648 19,421 517,528
1950.. 100,508 10 „ „ 87,387 13,121 530,649
Shareholdings written up, £875,000 905,649
Reserves capitalised, £374,517 .. 531,132
Parent and Subsidiaries.
From subsidiaries, £567,135 .. 1,098,267
1951.. 94,651 9 p.c. = 93,388 1,313 1,099,580
Unexplained reduction, £5792 .. 1,093,788
1952.. 101,434 7* p.c. = 112,218 1,083,004
Excess book-value over cost shares
subsidiaries, £101,324 ..1,184,828
Sundry reserve adjustment, £114,819 1,299,147
Tax refunds, £65,363 .. ..1,364,510
1953.. 160,671 8 p.c. = 136,014 24,657 1,389,167
* Subject to intangibles of £36,039 at 30/6/’53.
The improvement of £59,237 in last term’s
profit was a heartening achievement con-
sidering the reorganisation and other diffi-
culties in the path. The £160,671 of profit
claimed was 9,4 p.c, on average capital
as against 6.9 p.c, and 9.1 p.c. for the
two preceding terms, and the div. was
lifted from 7£ p.c. to 8 p.c., which can
be taken as an indication that the board
is satisfied with the outlook. The Grafton
creamery recorded a loss of £14,644, but
no mention is made of how the Fresh
Food business' fared.
The big additions to reserves (inter-
lined in the profits table) were on account
of the Fresh Food deal and purchase of
minority interests in Foley Bros. There
was also a cash gain of £65,363 on
account of long-delayed war-time co. tax
refunds, etc. The two first-mentioned
deals are also responsible for the big
growth in most balance-sheet items:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,456,967 £1,481,456 £1,700,173
Outside interests.. 76,874 79,319
Mortgage .. ..' 135,941
Overdraft .. .. 398,491 1,106,140 1,926,114
Creditors, etc. .. 646,950 615,620 1,128,542
Inter-co. balances 53,288 70,611
Tax provision ~ 145,335 183,186 143,808
•Final div. .. 64,014 60,367
Freeholds, etc.* .. 856,718 903,597 1,588.607
Plant .. .. 1,224,619 1,416,717 2,100,366
Under construction! 120,132 256,066 113,499
Stocks . . . . 564,491 1,002,347 1,865,545
Book debts .. 471,676 628,474 1,111.196
Shares other cos... 119,812 119,812 119,612
Govt, securities .. 840,000 .840,000 186,500
Inter-co. balances 43,430
Intangibles . . 85,863 35,887 36,089
‘lncludes leaseholds £6lOB, 1951; £5193, 1952;
£23,578, 1953. f Buildings and plant.
Capital expenditure on account of de-
velopment and seasonal movements in
dairy produce were responsible for part
of the year’s growth of £819,974 in the
overdraft. When the books closed there
was 20s. Bd. belonging to mortgagees, the
bank and sundry creditors, etc., for every
£1 of shareholders’ funds in the business.
Still, no hint is given that shareholders
might be asked for more at an early date.
Though earnings are subject to a wide
range of influences, given good seasons
and efficient plant operation, turnover
(£20,000,000 last term) will ensure adequate
profits even at low margins, the chairman
says. Much depends upon how the
reorganised Fresh Food business pans out.
At 325. 9d. (28s. 6d. in Sept., 1952)
the co.’s f.-p. £1 shares return 4.9 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover
is 355. lid.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
ALIVE to impending developments,
the management of this Victorian
spinning and knitting co., whose main
mills are at Coburg, curtailed production
and reduced stocks before the big fall in
wool values during the 1951-52 season.
Thus, with the help of £50,000 from a
special stock reserve, the slip in declared
profit for 1952 was only £10,957. More-
over, the co. was ready to take prompt
advantage of the improvement in trading
conditions which developed during the
12 months covered by the latest accounts,
as the resilience of the 1953 profit figure
shows;
f—~ Dividends— N
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.e. 12i p.c. serves. serves.*
1949.. 76,531 36,000 10,066 30,465 350,079
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 340,079
Asset revaluation, £lOO,OOO .. .. 440,079
Reserves capitalised, £80,527 .. 359,552
6i p.c.
1950.. 78,682 36,000 10,066 32,616 392,168
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 382.168
9 & 5 px. 6} p.c.
1951.. 89,494 53,500 10,066 25,928 408,096
To staff fund. £lO,OOO .. •• 398,096
3i p.c.
1952.. 78,537 53,500 15,236 9,801 407*897
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 402,897
Capital profits, £9151 .. .. 412,048
6i p.c.
1953.. 126,935 53,500 30,472 42,963 455,011
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 446,011
* Excluding depreciation reserves, now £465,514.
Last term began with poor trading con-
ditions in the textile trade; but as
retailers worked down swollen inventories
under the shelter of import restrictions
demand strengthened, and by the time
the books closed the co. was hard pressed
to keep abreast of the order-book. Also
the value of raw wool rose steadily during
the first 10 months of the term, thus en-
abling stocks (conservatively valued at
the close of accounts in 1952) to be sold
to good advantage. Other helpful factors
were the cut in co.-taxation and steadier,
though still upward, trend of operating
costs
After allowing £52,152 (up £8097) for
depreciation and £86,000 (up £33,000)
for taxation, the net result was £48,398
better at £126,935. That covered the
pref. divs. and 15 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 5.1, 22.3 and 26.5 p.c. for the
three preceding years. The div., lowered
from 12£ p.c. to 6} p.c. following the
one-for-one bonus share-issue in 1950
and to 3£ p.c. in 1952, was lifted to
6| p.c. again—the bonus-issue, which
restored only one-quarter of the capital
jettisoned in 1925, was followed by a
cash issue at par amounting to £326,494.
Despite the bigger trading, which again
shows up in a growth of £144,988 in
book-debts, and the rise in wool prices, the
co. was able to reduce stocks by £103,312:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,229,615 £1,237,548 £1.212,548
Depreciation reserve 373,292 417,348 465,514
Liabilities* .. 1,520,896 803,865 784,355
Freeholds .. ~ 197,815 201,025 202,751
Plant .. .. 681,070 732,369 749,628
Stocks .. ~ 1,792,294 1,588,657 1,485,345
Book debts .. 431,110 309,804 454,792
Cash, etc 419.610 29,803 14,912
* Includes overdraft, tax reserve, divs. payable and
contributions to staff fund, etc.
The net addition of £17,259 to plant
reflects the board’s policy of keeping
abreast of the modern trend toward auto-
matic operations, with consequent in-
crease in mechanical efficiency and easier
control and maintenance. The reduction
of £25,000 in paid capital is the first of
eight annual repayments of the £350,000
of 5 p.c. redeemable prefs. (issued to
Colonial Mutual Life in 1950); the
balance (£150,000) is due in 1960. Despite
the repayment and the additions to plant,
there was an improvement of £46,295 in
the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,170,694).
Full production is reported for the first
three months of the current term, and is
expected to be maintained for the balance
of the period; and wool prices remain
high, thus removing any immediate threat
to earnings from the large stocks item.
Still, owing to the high level of costs, the
industry remains vulnerable to competi-
tion from overseas, which can be expected


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys. 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
,1 tyv> —
mnvrf/l)
us
*V-5v
trv
ks
&
O
If
wishes
were
horses .
Jbegfcars would ride!
Everyone wishes for financial independ*
ence . . . help the wish come true by
means of a National Mutual Policy.
Let an experienced officer of this mutual
Association advfce you. Write, call or
telephone.
™ NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION-gA/sm LTD.
(Inc. in Vie.)
ESTABLISHED 1569
350 George Street, Sydney. Telephone 8L1271
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALLAN WILLIAM EDWARDS late of
King’s Cross.—TAKE NOTICE that
PATRICIA MARY EDWARDS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4531 of 1952 on
the grounds of habitual drunkenness and
cruelty during three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance by the 12th day of January
1954 at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney and a copy of the
Petition may be had without charge from
S. S. MITCHELL, Solicitor, of Bank
Corner, Wickham, Newcastle, or his Syd-
ney Agent, Mr. J. K. DIXON, Solicitor,
of 115 Pitt Street. Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
for an issue of
100,000 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each
at a premium of 3/6 per share
and payable in full on application.
In this Abridged Prospectus the requirements of Section 3£ of the Companies Act 1938 of the State of
Victoria have not been fully complied with. The full Prospectus is dated the thirtieth day of October
iiccii IUiIY CUUtpiOU "■» * r _T c .1
1953 and a copy thereof has been filed with the Registrar-General of the States
ana a copy uicrcu* was uccu ««« -- , , i
Wales, South Australia, Queensland and Western Australia. Applications for shares will be received only
one of the forms of application referred to in and attached to the full Prospectus.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1938 of the State of Victoria.)
Nominal Capital £1,000,000
ISSUED CAPITAL:
90,000 5% Cumulative Preference Shares participating
to 10% per annum of £1 each fully paid
1,054,380 Ordinary Stock units of 5/- each fplly paid
25,620 Ordinary Shares of 5/- each paid to 2/6 ....;.
Less due on Employee Shares
Paid-up Capital
DIRECTORS:
William Herscovitch, M.E., A.M.I.E. (Aust.), 9 Smythe Avenue, Mont Albert,
Chartered Engineer, Chairman and Managing Director.
Edward James O’Brien, 387 Warrigal Road, Burwood, General Manager.
Ernest Edgar Davies, 29 Haughton Parade, Rosanna, Solicitor.
BANKERS:
Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
SOLICITORS:
E. Edgar Davies & Co., Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne.
AUDITOR:
John William McEncroe, of the firm of McEncroe, Peace & Co.,
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Chartered Accountants (Aust.).
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
John Herbert Joyner, F.C.1.5., A.A.S.A., 410 Whitehorse Road, Mitcham.
OBJECTS OF THE ISSUE:
Although the Company is a public company, it is still classed for taxation purposes
as a private company. The object of the issue is to give a further spread of shares and
to qualify the Company as a public company for taxation purposes and for listing on
the Stock Exchange. The proceeds of the issue will be used to provide additional finance
for the expansion of the Company’s operations.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT:
The nett profits (before tax) of the Company for the past three years were:
Year ending 30/6/51 *84,830
Year ending 30/6/52 fJJf’S*
Year ending 30/6/53 £105,345
and the dividends declared for those years were:
Preference, 10%, bonus, 3% 13%
Ordinary, 31%% "
Preference, 10%, bonus, 1% 11%
Ordinary, 22%%
Preference, 10%
Ordinary, 17%
The minimum amount to be raised by the above issue is £25,000, and is made up
as follows: „ ,
(i) The purchase price of any property to be defrayed out of the
proceeds of the issue
(ii) Preliminary expenses* ... , , , eonan
Expenses of the issue, including commission and brokerage
Year ending 30/6/51
Year ending 30/6/52 ....
Year ending 30/6/53 ....
(iii) The repayment of any moneys borrowed in respect of the
foregoing matters
NIL
(iv) Working capital • £23,000
(v) The amounts to be provided in respect of the aforesaid matters
otherwise than out of the proceeds of the issue,
NIL
£25,000
APPLICATION FOR SHARES:
Copies of the Prospectus, together with forms of applications for shares, may be
nbtained from the Company at its registered office. . .
Applications for shares will open on the 30th day of October, 1953, and will dose
at the discretion of the Directors not later than the' 28th day of November, 1953.
Applications should be lodged with the Company at its registered office.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING:
Application will be made to the Stock Exchanges of Melbourne and Sydney for
listing of the Company’s shares.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LIMITED
410 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VICTORIA. PHONE: WU 1081
BRANCHES: SYDNEY, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH
to grow as import restrictions
are further relaxed.
The market notes the wide
margin between last term’s earn-
ings and distributions and prices
the f.-p. Bs. ords. at 7s, 2d.
(7s. 3d. a year ago) to return
7 p.c. on a 6£ p.c. div. basis. The
£1 9 p.c. prefs. at 265. return
6.9 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£3 6s. 7d. prefs. and 15s. 4d.
ords.
H. B. Selby Aust., Ltd.
/"WER the last couple of years
the Melbourne-based Selby
group, which imports, manu-
factures and distributes scientific-
equipment and fine chemicals,
has done record business and
has continued to display a sturdy
earning-capacity:
Pahent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Defi-
June, Profit. „ —Dividends—, serves, cit.t
£ £ £ £
1949*. 14,259 7 p.c. = 1,540 12,719 11,971
Added intangibles, £77 .. 12,048
1950. .27,148 8 p.c. =17.600 9,548 2,500
Intangibles disappear, £1950 .. 550
Res.t
1951.. 24,062 8 p.c. =18,020 6,042 5,492
1952.. 25,801 8 „ ~19,414 6,387 11,879
1953.. 34.656.9 „ ~24,667 9.989 21,868
t After deducting intangibles, £12,321 at
June 30, 1953. * Includes profits of the
Sydney subsidiary for nine months only.
The business kicked off at Mel-
bourne in 1900, and at Sydney
12 years later. At first it was
mainly engaged in supplying
apparatus and test-chemicals to
mining cos., but sales have since
widened considerably, especially
in the post-war period of rapid
industrial development. Indus-
trial laboratories, schools and
universities. Government depart-
ments and hospitals are now
among the co.’s best customers.
It is soundly established in a
largely essential trade, which in
the long-run can be expected to
increase further.
The parent was formed in
April, 1949, to buy all the capital
in the Sydney and Melbourne
operating cos. for £120,000 in
its own scrip, and at the same
time it made a public issue of
99,500 £1 ords. at par. Average
adjusted profits for the five years
to 1948 were put at £12,568. A
branch was opened at Brisbane
in 1949, and another at Perth in
1951, while a third branch at
Adelaide is expected to start
trading shortly. To help finance
these moves, shareholders put
up another £45,680 at par in
1952, taking paid capital to the
present £274,080.
Turnover, after falling away in
the first six months of last term,
recovered strongly and again
reached record figures. The im-
provement in trading profit was
£9711:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Trading profit.. £50,480 £50,258 £®9.969
Depreciation .. 5,398 3.857 „a’q?o
Taxation .. 21,020 20,600 20,919
Net profit .. 24,062 26,801 34,666
Depreciation provision was up
by £537, and tax by only £319,
thanks to lower rates, leaving
net profit £8855 stronger at
£34,656. That was equal to 12.6
p.c. on capital as against 10.6
p.c. in the previous term, so the
board had no difficulty in lifting
the div. to 9 p.c.
Here are balance - sheet
figures:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital £228,400 £274,080 £274,080
Mortgage . . 40,000 40,000 40,000
Overdraft .. 31.223 61,408 29,501
Creditors . . 46,395 40,823 84,897
Tax provision 22,460 32,032 22,600
Final dividend 11,420 12,562 16,445
Freeholds .. 128,344 170,963 169.650
Plant . . 17,550 20,251 23,139
Stock . . 162,907 196,596 165,167
Debtors .. 76,416 84,235 81,187
Cash . . 173 239 248
Reductions of £31,429 in stock
and £3048 in book-debts allowed
the co. to knock £31,907 off the
overdraft and £5426 off the
amounts coming to creditors, as
well as to make net additions of
£2BBB to plant. Finances are
comfortable.
Sales have continued to in-
crease since balance-date, and
there is nothing in sight at the
moment to suggest any falling-
away. To what extent overseas
competition is likely to develop
in the future it is difficult to say
at the moment. At the last sale
price of 255. the £1 shares yield
7.2 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. Net
tangible backing is 21s. 7d. each.
Uranium and Atomic Power
Uranium, the chief source of
atomic power, has become a
central talking-point in mining
and other circles, and private
enterprise as well as Govern-
ments has joined in the hunt for
the metal. This because of the
growing and potentially heavy
future demand for the stuff for
use not only in atomic war-
weapons but also in thermal
power-reactor and -breeder piles,
and for a wide range of other
industrial purposes which is ex-
pected to expand as operational
experience grows.
The gap between pilot-plants
and industrial use, usually a long
one, has been shortened by last
month’s announcement that the
Atomic Energy Commission in
the U.S. has begun construction
of a full-time power-reactor
which will produce a minimum
of 60,000 kilowatts of electrical
energy. In Britain, too, the
Atomic Energy Organisation
hopes to “generate electrical
power which will be pumped
into the grid system within the
next few years” from a thermal-
reactor now under construction
at Calder Hall, Cumberland, and
at a price “not greatly in excess
of the cost of generation in a
modern conventional power-
station.” Later on, when the
self-supporting fast reactor —it
automatically breeds new fissible
material replaces the present
thermal-reactor a great widen-
ing of the use of atomic energy
and of atomic waste-products is
anticipated.
Meanwhile, chief sources of
supply of the raw material,
uranium-oxide —the commercial
form in which the metal is sold
by the mines—are the Belgian
Congo, Canada, U.S., South
Africa and Australia. Of the
countries mentioned, all but
Australia are now producing
and selling uranium-oxide in the
form of concentrates. Australia
is mining uranium-ore under
Government sponsorship at
Rum Jungle (N.T.) and Radium
Hill (S. Aus.), and selling
selected parcels to the U.S. and
U.K. Other probable commer-
cial deposits of uranium-ore have
been located by aerial-survey in
the Darwin - Katherine area
(N.T.). Probable uranium-ore
bearing areas in the Edith River
area (N.T.) have just been taken
up by two public mining cos.,
Uranium Mines, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne), and Poseidon, N.L.
(Adelaide). At lot of very valu-
able experimental and pilot-
plant work in connection with
concentration has been done by
C.5.1.R.0., but erection of a
large-scale concentrating-plant to
treat ore mined has not yet
begun.
The physical task of mining
uranium-ore, and the capital out-
lay involved, are little, if any,
different from the same two fac-
tors in the mining of other
ores. Returns will depend
primarily upon the extent and
nature of the deposit, the assay-
value of the ore, selling-prices
and costs.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Members of the English Speaking
Union met at the Women’s Club last
Thursday, when the guest-speaker was
Hector Ross, star of the “Dial ‘M’ for
Murder” company. Mr. Ross spoke of
the urgent need for another theatre, for,
he said, we had a wealth of young and
talented artists. He also answered dozens
of questions on television—he has starred
in 56 TV plays and won the national
award in 1951 for his performance in
“The Guinea Pig.” Mrs. Ross, who is
understudy to “Dial ‘M’ ’s” leading lady,
was attractive in black. Hostesses for
the afternoon were Mrs. H. J, Brady and
Mrs. J. R. Miller.
☆ ☆ ☆
The wedding of Moya Henderson,
whose home is at Gorian, Old Burren,
to Bill Carter, of Barraba, brought dozens
of pastoral people to Sydney last Friday,
and the Rev, G. N. Bensley, who had
previously lived at Armidale, officiated
at St. Stephen’s. Reception was at the
Pickwick. A very happy affair, with
charming young bride and bridesmaids.
Moya and Bill will live at Barraba.
A decorative member of the Sydney
community is June Mallett, one of our
leading models. Photo, by Bruce Min-
nett.
Unsolicited opinion on the Artists’
Ball, from a victim, “Not what it used
to be—too many people disguised as
artists. No stayers among ’em! Went
to a five-o’clock do last Friday to warm
up ; then on to the ball at the Troc. about
nine. Got to Bill’s flat at Pott’s Point
with the milkman and then went down to
Tom’s place at Palm Beach. Got home
on Sunday morning. Never got home till
Monday in the old days! ”
☆ ☆ ☆
Preparations for the Queen’s visit are
gathering momentum in Sydney. Plans
and stands and decorative arches are in
the news; but as we can afford only one
arch it has been suggested that it be put
on wheels and pushed from place to
place on the Royal route as needed. The
idea has also been put forward that an
escort of 1000 swimmers should accom-
pany the Gothic down the harbor. All
the bells are to peal on her Majesty’s
arrival and it looks as though Sydney
for once in its life will be thoroughly
swept and garnished.
There is so much to be done it hardly
seems possible that it can all be finished
in time. St. James’s Church is being
restored and should be ready by Feb-
ruary ; but it doesn’t seem probable that
St, Andrew’s could be moved to a more
elevated position in that time. Perhaps
if it were just turned the right way round
it would do. And there might be just
time to throw up a couple of spires on
St. Mary’s. It’s so conspicuous that funds
ran out before the place could be finished.
The Queen would be bound to notice.
And the Conservatorium—the outside’s
all right, to be sure—quite romantic, in
fact —but what if the Queen were to
look inside? How ashamed we would
be of the dingy pea-green walls and the
general dilapidation! Government House
is quite nice. That’s one good thing.
The Public Library, too. But the Art
Gallery! Something will have to be
done about that. It’s too late now to
put up the permanent structure behind
that handsome front, but it might be pos-
sible to make it look a little more lived-in.
Get some students with easels, for in-
stance, and scatter long-haired artists and
American tourists round it. They’d have
to be paid, of course, but it would be
worth it
It’s hard to know just what to do with
Parliament House. It’s a place of
historical interest, so for that reason it
will definitely have to be kept. (It was
originally the Rum Hospital, remember?
Three gentlemen of the colony built it
in return for receiving a monopoly on
the sale of rum.) Perhaps the best thing
would be to enclose it in a huge plate-
glass case—soundproof, of course.
Sydney Hospital, the Queen Victoria
Building, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital
and various suburban mansions of the
same period should really be completely
remodelled. That is going to be a big
job, and it’s doubtful whether it could be
done in three months. The only alterna-
tive is to knock off all excrescences and
useless ornamentation, and paint them a
nice bright modem color. Perhaps the
Contemporary Art Society might lend a
hand.
The old Mint Building will have to
cease being a parking-station and take
its rightful place as a memorial of early
colonial days. Gardens must be planted
round it and the stately rooms filled with
period furniture so that it will look as
though time has stood still there. If the
alterations can’t be made, then it might
be well leave the Housing Commission
there —the same effect.
The Barracks (or, rather, the District
Court and other courts) must also receive
attention so that the building may be seen
as one of historical interest. At present
it’s hiding behind mouldering stone, a
mass of white letter-boxes and an enor-
mous shaggy palm. All this will have to
be cleaned up or rooted out. Now is
the time, of course, for implementing the
scheme to make this Francis Greenway
building stand out more clearly by remov-
ing the buildings that surround it, by
restoring it, painting it and making a
small island of gardens around it. This
effect would be improved if the Registrar-
General’s Office were removed, too. It
could be placed on the Flat at Rand-
wick racecourse. Surely no one would
object to that?
It’s imperative that all arguments be-
tween the Maritime Services Board, local
councils, water-and-sewerage boards or
any other public bodies must be settled.
Rose Bay must not smell by any other
name, and Darling Harbor must really
deserve the endearment. The party
probably would be too well-bred to men-
tion the presence of hundreds of decay-
ing fish in the harbor, but they really
couldn’t help noticing it.
Another thing that will have to be
finished is the Eastern Suburbs Railway.
It makes Circular Quay look really
awfully untidy, and one can never find
the right ferry-wharves. Three months
doesn’t seem long to finish something that
has been hanging fire since 1918, but it’s
a matter of necessity now. The Queen
simply cannot be allowed to see it in
the state it’s in. What would she think?
And what is to be done about the
University? One suggestion is that a
notice saying that it’s a building-experi-
mental-station might explain why the
buildings are such a strange medley of
styles. Another proposal is that the Royal
visitors should be allowed to see only
the front of the main building, the
Medical School and the Great Hall so
that they would never know that the rest
of it didn’t match. But this would hardly
work. Everyone knows how visitors
always ask to see sbmething you’re trying
to conceal from them. Perhaps it would
be better to brave it out and let the
Queen think that it’s just our individu-
alism.
It would not be wise at this stage to
fill up all the Tioles in the streets. For
one thing it would rob the city of some-
thing of its special character, and for
another, experience in the past has shown
that as soon as one lot of holes is com-
pleted another lot is started. It’s some-
thing to do with the capital cost of the
equipment, drills and all that. The more
they are in use the cheaper they become
or something. Men really understand this
sort of thing rather better than women as
a rule, but one can get the general idea.
As for the skyline, it is rather daunt-
ing to contemplate doing anything about
that. The buildings are so ill-assorted
with 12-story ones next to midgets and
even Martin-place showing a great gap
like a missing tooth just above Pitt-
street. It just wouldn’t be possible to
build up all the little ones and it seems
rather a waste to chop down the tall
ones. Perhaps something might be done
about removing all the little ones to the
tops of hills and all the tall ones to the
hollows. This seems quite a good idea
when you look at it steadily. It would
give a modern, planned effect.
MELBOURNE
There was an air of gracious yet in-
formal hospitality at Government House
for the reception which the Governor-
General and Lady Slim gave for 500
guests. On arrival, guests walked through
the ballroom (unusually furnished with a
long supper-table and small individual
ones, gay with silver candelabra and red
candles) to the State drawing-room to be
received. Here were wood fires and huge
bowls of iris, arum-lilies and pink
rhododendrons mixed with foliage. The
hall leading to the drawing-room was
decorated with poplar-trees.
Lady Slim wore a picture-gown of
white silk paper-taffeta. The bodice and
part of the wide skirt carried pearl em-
broidery. With it Lady Slim wore a
diamond-and-pearl tiara and a diamond
necklace. Lady Lowe, wife of the
Administrator, Sir Charles Lowe, wore a
grey-and-silver brocade gown. Mrs. R, G.
Menzies’s lavender-blue chiffons glittered
with silver sequins.
Beautiful gowns noted were Lady Mani-
fold’s, of white guipure lace, which was
covered with an ice-blue satin stole;
Lady Snow’s pervenche-blue satins, with
large pearls covering the strapless bodice
and trailing on the skirt; Lady Mc-
Connan’s palest-pink organza, also with
pearl embroideries; Mrs. Michael
Keeble’s cream lace which had a loose
panel of matching satin forming a train;
Mrs. John Howse’s royal-blue tulle
with its skirt of many tiers;
the draped gown of deep-violet chiffon
worn by Mrs. Richard Spraggett; the
black tulle with sequin petals worn by
Mrs. G. I. Stevenson; Mrs. Keith
Morrison’s, its pale-blue striped with
deeper-blue and silver brocade ; and Mrs.
Charles Burge’s full-pleated black
chiffon over scarlet satin.
Slim, graceful and fair, Mrs. Geoffrey
Grimwade, who is the mother of four
school-age daughters, is on several com-
mittees, including that which annually
arranges the Derby Eve Ball Her hus-
band is president of the Australian Club,
and with him Mrs. Grimwade received
the guests at the club’s ball.
When he and Lady Slim attended the
late-afternoon reception at Union House
in the University, arranged by the com-
bined British societies, the Governor-
General, with typical considerateness and
geniality, asked that every one of the 600
guests be presented. Bodies represented
were the British Empire Society, Royal
Society of St. George, Victoria League,
Overseas League, Royal Caledonian
Society, Empire Day Movement and
Empire Youth Council. Lady Slim looked
most attractive in a frock of black silk
French crepe and a close-fitting cap of
white gardenias and green leaves. As
Mrs, lan Connell filed past Lady Slim
recognised in her an old Edinburgh school
friend, and, moreover, remembered her
Christian- and maiden-names.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the dinner-dance at Giro’s held to
assist Red Cross funds, Jennifer Russell,
president of the committee, received the
guests wearing a halter-necked gown of
pale-green-and-pink-shot taffeta. She was
assisted by Mrs. Peter Watkins, whose
bouffant frock was of white organdie with
a wide cummerbund-sash of cherry-red
satin.
Other members of the committee were
Pat Downey, who chose a short frock
of white Swiss embroidered organdie;
Amanda Grimwade, wearing white em-
broidered organza; Virginia Davenport,
whose black French organdie gown was
appliqued with black lace motifs ; Mrs.
John Read, who wore black nylon satin;
and Mrs. Billie Baragawanath, her short
full-frock being of lime-green nylon. The
party of the last-named included the Hon.
Simon Warrender and his wife, the
Gordon Darlings, Brigadier and Mrs.
Tom Daly, Lady Slim’s personal secretary,
Miss Judy Hutchinson, and Colonel
Martin Giliiatt. A pretty white figured
nylon gown and an ice-blue velvet stole
were the choice of Mrs. Leon Stubbings,
whose husband is Director of Appeals
for Red Cross.
☆ ☆ ☆
Three illuminated models of naval
battles in which Drake took part were
conspicuous in the foyer of the Royale
Ballroom for the Navy Ball, proceeds of
which were for the Flinders Chapel
Fund, Ship’s-wheels held the table-num-
bers, and at the back of the official
table was a large illuminated crown.
During the dinner which preceded the
ball an R.A.N. band played, and at
9.30 p.m. a roll of drums announced the
arrival of the Governor-General and
Lady Slim and members of his suite.
Lady Slim wore a lovely gown of mist-
blue faille, which had a very wide skirt
and a draped sash which formed a
slight train. The vice-regal party was
met by the president of the ball-commit-
tee, Mrs. David Harries, whose gown of
pale-blue satin and tulle was trimmed
with large pink roses. Lady Collins, mak-
ing her first public appearance since her
illness, accompanied her husband, Vice-
Admiral Sir John Collins. Her gown of
cream satin, embroidered with pearls
and sequins, carried an apple-green satin
bow. Lady Rowell, who was with
her husband, Lieut.-General Sir Sydney
Rowell, chose white Chantilly lace over
white chiffon.
Mrs, W. H. Henderson wore black
nylon over lace. Mrs. T. Brunsting, wife
of the Netherlands Naval Attache, was
smart in black taffeta. Mrs, R. B.
Brunstead, wife of the U.S. Assistant
Naval Attache, wore a short evening frock
of hyacinth-blue tulle. Ticket-secretary
Mrs. Edward Campbell wore champagne
satin and a stole lined with emerald-green.
Mrs. Gordon Darling, the other ticket-
secretary, danced in dove-grey tulle.
The skirt of Nancy Woodrow’s apricot-
satin frock had deep tucks. Mrs.
Geoffrey Griffiths wore white organdie
with a wide cummerbund sash of
emerald-green satin. Mrs, Ken Luke’s
gown of black tulle over electric-blue
satin had midnight-blue sequins on the
bodice.
£ ☆ ☆
Oaks Day was warm, and the sun was
out, so racegoers were able at long last
to get into filmy organzas, paper-taffetas
and shantungs, surahs and foulards, with
light gay hats to go with them. Skirts
were shorter, although not as short as
Dior would like them, and the silhouette
is a matter of choice; either very slim
or bouffant. Spots of all sizes were
popular, but floral designs, modernistic
patterns and finely-etched materials also
had their devotees. The new sugar-pink,
shading through to vivid American-
beauty, was chosen by many.
Lady Slim’s ensemble was in lavender-\
blue paper-shantung. Her side-tilted hat
of matching crinoline straw had a pearl
ornament. Mrs. Geoffrey Grimwade’s
frock was most striking. Of white pure-
silk surah spotted in rose-pink, the
umbrella skirt was finely-pleated and
swirled to reveal white tulle underskirts.
Her head-hugging hat was in the same
lovely pink.
Mrs. George Griffith’s pink straw hat
had white tulle forming a scalloped edge.
Mrs. Graham Nathan’s large black
picture-hat had the flat brim covered
with ostrich-feathers. Mrs. Alec Finlay’s
hat of pink straw was swathed with
layers of organza to match her frock.
Mrs. Tom Bateman, of Sydney, wore
pale-cinnamon-brown foulard patterned
with tiny black and white cupids and
cornucopia, and her black shovel-type
picture-hat was covered with straw loops.
Unusual was the pleated hemline on
Mrs. Norman Tapp’s pale-blue-and-
white-spotted frock. White chiffon fell
softly from the back of her blue straw
hat.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
a
KHAKIS
Circular Chart* for all typM
of According instrument*
lor «nf clui o» MicMMry
or Cquipmont
1 HfTER CHARTS • Spoclafc?
jxamws OTsTIUV/\N%U£0 T sTlUV/\N%U£
OUtCN STREET. BRISBANE
Missing Friend _____
ORD, Denis Oraymer Knox, formerly of
Canterbury, Victoria, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate with
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED, of 401
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Legal Notices _________
I. THOMAS HORTIS, of Greek nation-
ality, born at Zaverda, Greece, resident
12 years in Australia, now residing at
147 Campbell Street, East Sydney, intend
to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO ANNIE AMELIA BRIGGS (also known
as ANNIE AMELIA BRIX) formerly of
The Young Women’s Christian Association
of Liverpool Street Sydney in the State
of New South Wales but whose present
whereabouts are unknown. —T AK E
NOTICE that LILLIAN SARAH MANS-
FIELD BRIGGS the lawful widow of
FREDERICK WILLIAM BRIGGS late of
Ernest Street Manly in the State of
Queensland Storekeeper Deceased has
made an Application in this Court under
“The Testator’s Family Maintenance
Acts 1914-1943” that adequate provision
for her proper maintenance and support
may be made out of the estate of the said
deceased The Application will be heard
before the Chamber Judge at the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane on the
Eleventh day of December One thousand
nine hundred and fifty-three at 10 o’clock
in the forenoon If you a beneficiary under
the Will of the said Deceased do not
attend in person or by Counsel or Solicitor
at such place and time such order may
be made and such proceedings taken as
the Court or a Judge may deem expedient.
DATED this Twenty-third day of October,
1953.—P. J. RUSSELL, Second Deputy
Registrar. FEATHER, WALKER AND
DELANEY, Solicitors for the Applicant,
289 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Matrimonial Causes No. 421 of 1958.
TO MURIEL EASTWOOD Address Un-
known.—TAKE NOTICE that your hus-
band NORMAN EASTWOOD has com-
menced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
Dissolution of Marriage naming RICHARD
TREAT as Co-Defendant and asks the
Court to exercise its discretion in his
favour in pursuance of Section 27 (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes and Personal
Status Code 1948 If you desire to de-
fend such proceedings you must file your
defence at the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth within thirty
clear days from the date of this publi-
cation In default of your so doing the
case may proceed and the Court will pro-
nounce judgment and make Orders against
you in your absence. DATED the 30th
day of October, 1953. —G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar.
/6$ a/Ways toady!
Always ready
for cooking
Always gallons
of Hot water
Always greater
convenience
AfNbtde
JSOO
• . .
4
CjuukuJulaJ
•5f
EahmidtaBL 5*0
DOMESTIC HEAT STORAGE RANGE AND WATER HEATER
with true thermostat control
o HEAVY CASTING within the range stores the heat, and
thorough insulation prevents heat loss.
• TWO LARGE COOKING OVENS and TWO BIGGER HOTPLATES
allow you to do all your cooking at the one time.
• CONTINUOUS BURNING means that the “520” is always
ready when you decide to cook.
• BURNS ON ANY SOLID FUEL—including coal, coke,
anthracite, briquettes, etc.
For economy, efficiency and ease of cleaning, the Car-
michael 520 is truly the ultimate in solid fuel cooking.
Write for free illustrated literature to Carmichael's,
Rawson Street, Auburn, N.S.W.
CONSTANT HOT WATER
★ In the kitchen
★ In the bathroom
★ In the laundry
The Carmichael 520
will supply enough hoi
water for all your
household needs.
Naturally
Makers c
it cooks perfectly ... it’s a
F fine fuel stoves since 1892 . .
• A
. A Unit of Email Limited
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Hal Missingham
With hayrakes and windmills,
with coils of wire and fences of
wire-netting, with an old meat-
safe and half a tin-lizzie, with
the teeth of a mower, an old tin-
can and a broken tank; with
hard, masculine drawing, clean
pure washes of watercolor and
a predominant color-scheme of
rusty red against a pale back-
ground, Hal Missingham shows
himself to more advantage as
an artist in his exhibition at Syd-
ney Macquarie Galleries than
could ever have been prophesied
from his previous contributions
to the various societies.
It is a “retrospective” exhibi-
tion, some of the paintings dating
as far back as 1933, and though
there is an obvious unity of
style and temperament shown in
the firm, heavy-handed drafts-
manship, it is chiefly in the most
recent paintings, a 1953 set, that
Mr. Missingham seems at last
to have discovered what he can
do best.
There is not much poetry in
Mr. Missingham, not much feel-
ing for life or Nature. He states
his facts, often, with the blank
literalness of commercial-art.
What feeling he has is chiefly for
effects of technique: draftsman-
ship, pattern: which indeed
has an aesthetic value, but dry
and essentially abstract. Some-
times when he tries for a roman-
tic effect, as in “Tooloom
Range” (1950) and “The Fallen
Bloodwood” (1953), he does get
a strong bold pattern, near
enough to the real thing to
please those who like Nature as
well as art; but even so attrac-
tive an early landscape as
“Spanish Mid-day” (1936) has
a final effect of emptiness, while
the more typical “Van Gogh’s
Country” (1936) and “Clearing
in the Copse” (1939) are just
essays in a technique of streaks
and blobs.
Even in the latest set, mostly
concerned with ruins—what he
calls “Useless Objects”—there is
a fundamental unreality. One
has seldom seen so hard, so un-
compromising a collection pf
ruins, painted without either the
nostalgic charm such objects
usually evoke or the more
macabre emotion of Drysdale.
They neither glow with the Aus-
tralian sun nor crumble in
shadow; they simply, uncom-
promisingly, exist as feats of
technique.
No sheep have ever been
“Behind the Woolshed”: but
Mr. Missingham, the technician,
has certainly been there and has
made a delicately harmonious
painting out of the red hayrake,
the fallen sheds, the broken
tank and the pale sky beyond.
Nobody ever lived in the “Ruins
of Tullaboobri,” but it is rare to
see so elegant a collection of
splintered planks.
Some black-and-white draw-
ings exhibited with the water-
colors demonstrate that, if the
more profound human emotions
are not to be found in this col-
lection, Mr. Missingham does
not lack humor. “Bessie,” the
appalling schoolgirl, the knitting
“Veteran” and a supercilious
nude are as amusing as they are
admirably drawn.
Stage and Music
Homage and Adieu
From London:
On the same wall that recently
bore the slides of the Everest
lectures were draped three huge
standards: in the centre the
Union Jack and on each side
the flags of Australia and New
Zealand. Behind the vacant seats
in the Royal Box the Sovereign’s
personal standards gleamed in
silken radiance. And the Festi-
val Hall began to fill.
Formal elegance predomin-
ated, but it was not the stiff
correctness of a court ball. There
was the odd tiara and a rich
assemblage of evening-gowns.
Rows of miniature medals
glittered and rustled upon the
lapels of taiLcoats. But there
were also black ties, lounge-
suits (many of them anything
but formal in the strictest sense)
and office-dresses. A gathering
that, in fact, comprised all kinds
of people but with one glad
intent —to bid their Queen God-
speed on her voyage to their
homelands.
A choir of a hundred men and
women filed on to the platform
and took their seats. In the
artistes’ room more than a score
of distinguished performers
awaited their turn. Every one
of them was either an Australian
or New Zealander. Only the
orchestra (the Royal Philhar-
monic) was not representative of
the two countries.
It was a happy gesture of the
two High Commissioners to
sponsor this concert. And what
a wealth of talent is shown to
be available even without strain-
ing at resources!
New works began, and ended,
the concert. The young New
Zealand composer, Edwin Carr,
provided the overture, “Mardi
Gras,” a witty and stylised im-
pression in modern idiom. And
Arthur Benjamin’s march for
chorus and orchestra, “Heritage,”
put a triumphant, if rather
clattering, gloss upon the pro-
gramme.
Australia supplied the conduc-
tor, 28-year-old Charles Mac-
Kerras, and two soloists, Eileen
Joyce and William Herbert,
while New Zealand contributed
a solo violinist (Alan Loveday),
a pianist (Colin Horsley) and a
Maori bass (Inia te Wiata).
The choice of programme was
tasteful, yet somehow it seemed
to lack characteristic flavor. The
Cesar Franck Symphonic Varia-
tions were less than life-size and
the Liszt concerto ornate and
flamboyant, as of another age.
The evocative beauty of
Vaughan Williams’s setting for
sixteen solo voices, “How sweet
the moonlight sleeps upon this
bank,” was apt and moving, yet
it was an old hand at “roval”
music who most surely touched
the height and splendor of the
occasion. And her Majesty’s
enjoyment of the rousing Handel
aria was quite noticeable.
The Queen’s presence, in spite
of a cold, will be of considerable
benefit to young Australian and
New Zealand music-students,
for the proceeds (about £3000)
are to provide a fund for their
study in Britain.
♦> ♦> ❖
Wirth’s in Melbourne
If A has always been found
in association with B in the past
and no instance of disassociation
has been known, it is logical to
expect that they will be found in
association in the next instance.
This rule applies to the Mel-
bourne Cup and the Australian
Navy, extant Federal politicians
and other con. men, 1,537,648
disappointed punters and the sun
and tomorrow morning. Which
is probably why the present com-
mentator found himself walking
across the Yarra the other even-
ing when he had really intended
to go in the opposite direction.
But there it was, the Greatest
Show On Earth, having moved
in under its permanent big-top
exactly on schedule, banners
waving, bands blaring and am-
plifiers bawling and elephants,
sea-lions and land-lions and
beautiful white horses and so
many clowns that there wasn’t
enough sawdust and jokes to go
round. There were also the
debonair Toni Smaha, direct
from Bertram Mills’ Circus,
London, with his team of 12
Australian-bred Arab horses to
discount the notion that ani-
mals don’t like being trained to
do things. Even the seals do
that. They are natural jugglers,
as present commentator ob-
served when he was fishing once
off Rottnest Island, and watched
the creatures tossing fish to one
another. So that all Captain
Harold Winston, who got his
from the darkest depths of the
vast Pacific Ocean, has done is
to develop a propensity.
The same can’t be said of the
Lepp Duo, who twist their well-
proportioned frames into shapes
that are neither useful nor orna-
mental, but the skill displayed
by Bent and Ebon, who do
things with rings and boxes
while balanced on one wheel, is
amazing, as are the Albertos,
who dance on silver wires. The
Zacchinis, the Continental
clowns who lift clowning to the
level almost of an intellectual
pastime, deserve a mention, as
do those Oscar Asches of the
circus world, Wirth’s elephants,
the five-ton actors. The Flying
Dieslers give grace and daring
to the final curtain.
Talkies
“Ride, Vaquero” (Sydney St.
James); Set in Texas immedi-
ately after the Civil War’s close,
this tale of a dogged rancher’s
struggle for survival with a
Mexican bandit-chief who sees
the incursion of cattlemen and
consequently law and order as a
threat to his kinglike status, is
notable chiefly for the powerful
portrait of the bandit drawn by
Anthony Quinn. The quixotic
nature of the hot-blooded Mexi-
can, fanatically fond of his
foster-brother yet savagely turn-
ing on him in an instant, mag-
nanimous one moment and dia-
bolically brutal the next, is
sustained with great verve.
Howard Keel is the deter-
mined rancher with the vision
of the State-builder. Robert
Taylor is unrelievedly grim-
lipped as the bandit’s foster-
brother who takes his gun to
the side of law and order and
the rancher’s flighty wife, played
by Ava Gardner.
“Meet Me Tonight” (Sydney
Embassy): Three one-acters by
Noel Coward, in technicolor. In
“Red Peppers” Ted Ray, familiar
through 8.8. C. rebroadcasts, and
Kay Walsh are the song-and-
dance team who do “Has Any-
body Seen Our Ship?” on stage
and quarrel in the dressingroom.
You would think such fast-
talking farce' could not be
bettered until you encountered
Stanley Holloway’s monumental
breakfast - table silence in
“Fumed Oak,” the story of the
shopwalker who rebelled against
his clamoring wife, his acidulous
mother-in-law and his snivelling
daughter. In “Ways and Means”
Valerie Hobson and Nigel Pat-
rick are the impecunious Riviera
guests who connive with the
chauffeur-burglar. Jack Warner,
to steal their hostess’s gambling-
win—Miss Hobson has that rare
beauty which is half of charac-
ter; the quality Ginger Rogers
had in her own way, and of
which it would be hard to name
another example in films.
“Dangerous Crossing” (Syd-
ney Esquire): A very well-made
suspense-thriller off the beaten
track, with a bride (Jean Crain)
on a liner menaced to the point
where, the plotter,- hopes, she
will be driven to suicide. Whilst
the basic plot is reminiscent
of “Gaslight,” its working-
out is treated with imagination
and freshness. Through it all
moves a mysterious limping
figure. There are minatory
phone-calls, creating in the vic-
tim’s mind the fear that certain
of the passengers could be her
deadly peril. So the acid eats
in. Michael Rennie is the ship’s
doctor.


You're wrong Delaney
By BANT SINGER
The Story to Date
Delaney, living in Black
Springs under police surveillance
because he is suspected of com-
plicity in two deaths, is trying
to blackmail Mrs. Elaine Pater-
son, wife of a wealthy miller,
over a love-letter she had written
to Herman Baler, one of the
men Delaney is suspected of
killing. On his way home, after
meeting Mrs. Paterson, he is
held up at the point of a gun by
Peters, missing partner of the
murdered Con Martini: Peters
demands that Delaney hand
over £3OOO. Delaney denies hav-
ing it. Peters then clubs Delaney
and leaves him helpless. Delaney
gets to his hotel, he is found by
Kathy, with whom he is falling
in love, and she takes him to her
room and attends his hurts.
Subsequently, badly hurt and
sick, Delaney collapses while
leaving Kathy’s room and wakes
up in Black Springs hospital.
CHAPTER IX
50 the doctor came. More
like a hotelkeeper, a stout
man with a round, bald
noggin, red face, blue eyes
and a big smile.
“Ha,” he says, all full of
happy fun games, “what have
they been doing to you, young
fellow?”
“That’s right,” I says,
“What’s that, young fellow?”
He’s fiddling about with the
card from the end of the bed.
There’s a big, tight-faced nurse
with him. She’s wearing a red
cape under the white veU and I
get it she’s the boss nurse round
there —the matron. She don’t
say a word.
“You said I looked a lot
better, Doc,” I says,
“Did I? Did I? Was that
what I said? Ha, ha.” He
looks at the matron. She’s look-
ing at me and the way her face
is screwed up I don’t know
whether she’s trying to stop
laughing or whether she hates
me because I proved he didn’t
know what he was saying. These
doctors know their stuff, mostly,
but too many go round like they
got a gramophone-record inside
playing, “Well, well, what they
been doing to you?” all the
time.
He pulls the blanket down
and starts feeling round my ribs.
Soon as his fingers touch my
skin I know he’s got the goods,
all right. Those fingers know
what they’re doing. They ask
questions of my muscles and
bones and bruises and soreness
and they tell him. Because his
face shows he isn’t missing a
trick. So I know I’ll be all right
with him and it breaks down
what I felt at first about him.
“H’m,” he says, listening to
his fingers, “h’m! Good —ah—
yes, yes—what’s this? —ah —
good.” He puts the blanket
back and looks at me.
“You had a fall?”
“Yes. Weil, I reckon so.
Don’t remember too well.”
“Drunk?”
“Not so you’d notice. It was
in the dark.”
“You should have been drunk,
young fellow. Next time you
have a fall be sure to get drunk
first. You see, drunks seldom
hurt themselves when they fall,
because they’re loose and re-
laxed. When a sober man falls,
young fellow, he stiffens up, puts
his hands out, tries to save him-
self. That’s when he gets hurt.
I hope you’ll remember that
in future.”
I grin back at him because
he’s a good sort,
“How am I, Doc?”
“A long way from dead, young
fellow. Couple of broken ribs
on that side, little bit of a bone
in your wrist fractured. The
rest’s mostly bruises and sprains
and grazes.” He touched me on
the shoulder and turned away,
“Keep him in bed today,
Matron,” he says. “Tomorrow
he could get up for a little while
and sit about.” He waved a
hand to me and went over to
the bearded man. I shut my
eyes, because it was good to
know I wasn’t bad hurt.
After a while the nurse comes
in and sponges me and changes
the sheets and does other things.
She talks to me.
“Somebody loves you,
Delaney.”
“How’d you guess?”
“Two of them. A Miss Kathy
Colter. She telephoned to
know how you were and when
she could see you. And Detec-
tive Keough. He wants to see
you, too.”
“You reckon he loves me?”
She looked at the door. Then
she leaned over me to do
something to the pillow and
said, keeping her voice down,
“He must. He’s put a police-
man outside to see you don’t
run away from him.”
“That’s love, all right. Any-
body ever try to run away with
you, nurse?”
“Don’t be cheeky, Delaney.”
She straightened off the bed and
went over to do her duty to the
bearded man.
They gave me broth and
stewed chicken and jellied apples
for lunch and told me I could
smoke. My money and cigarettes
and things was in the locker be-
side my bed, and when the nurse
opened it to show me I looked
at them and thought about
Elaine’s letter to Fat.
“Where’s my clothes, nurse?”
“Down in the laundry. They
were muddy and wet and a lot
of blood on them.”
“Did you—did they get every-
thing out of my pockets?”
“Of course. They’d empty
your pockets before sending the
things to the laundry.”
“There was letters —a letter-
papers”—
She opened the locker and
looked inside.
“No,” she said.
“But I know I had letters”
“Perhaps Matron has them.
Sometimes she takes them in
accident cases because they
could be confidential. I’ll ask,
if you want.”
“There was a pretty important
letter”,..
“All right. I’ll ask Matron.”
So now I got real worry, be-
cause that letter is gone some-
body has it and I put Elaine’s
name and address on it and any-
body reads it and sees what I
put they soon guess how it goes.
Especially if they’re local and
know about Fat being found
dead. I lie down and try to
think back. I had the letter
when Peters stuck me up and
after he done me over I blun-
dered along that lane and fell
into the hotel-yard and Kathy
found me and dragged me to her
room. So it looks like Kathy
got the letter because she took
my clothes off and covered me
up in the bed and was trying to
clean my clothes. Then it don’t
look like Kathy because I re-
member that when I put my
clothes on to get out of her
room she didn’t put anything in
the pockets except my tie. The
money and the cigarettes and
things must have been in my
pockets all the time the clothes
was lying round in Kathy’s
room.
Then it hits me like a flash.
Peters! Peters comes from St.
Kilda because he concludes I
got the three thousand and puts
a gun on me and I don’t give
with the three thousand. So he
knocks me out and waits till I
come to and then does me over.
But it don’t get him the three
thousand and I’m lying there- in
the mud and can’t make sense.
So he goes through my pockets.
He’s looking for big dough and
he ignores my small change and
cigarettes, but he feels that
letter. He can’t make a light in
the lane, so he stashes the letter
in his pocket and scrams out of
there and maybe gets where
there’s a light to see what’s in
the letter.
But there’s somebody else on
Peters —somebody with a gun.
Because Peters gets shot and
right now he’s maybe lying dead
in the police morgue in this
Black Springs. What I don’t
know is whether he got shot
before he read the letter. If he
read it maybe it don’t mean a
thing to him ; though if he saw
Elaine’s name and address writ-
ten where I wrote it, that would
maybe connect her up with the
Elaine who signed the letter.
But it still wouldn’t mean much
to Peters, except that he’d know
I wasn’t Baler and I got the
letter means there’s something
cooking somewhere. Peters
thinks that he’d want to know
about it, because he’s looking for
three thousand frogskins and
when he don’t find them on me
he’ll get to wondering who these
Baler and Elaine people are, and
how much they know about the
three thousand.
Maybe he don’t get time to
read the letter before he gets
shot. Either way means I maybe
got to kiss my hundred frog-
skins good-bye, because if the
person shoots Peters goes
through his pockets they got the
letter ; they don’t get time to go
through him then the letter stays
right in Peters’s pocket and
when the police search him they
get the letter.
So I’m in a hospital bed and
my hundred frogskins faded
away, because without that letter
I got nothing to sell, and maybe
the police or the person shot
Peters got the letter. Maybe I
could bluff Elaine without the
letter, but it’s nothing to build
on because what I see of her
that night she don’t bluff easy.
I lie there and look at the
ceiling and my brain going round
in circles. Because I’m still in
the middle of a big blue stew
with three dead men floating
round, and Keough got me
where he wants me, and Elaine
got me where she’d want me if
she knew Peters got her letter.
You’re smart and get along, but
sometimes there’s things bob up
you can’t be smart about. It’s
only four days since I took a
powder out of St. Kilda and that
was smart, because I take the
powder it puts Nugget in the
clear and Lily with him. Only I
didn’t know about the three
thousand then and now I don’t
know about it, except Peters
thought I had it. Which puts it
with Nugget or Lily and maybe
I knew about the three thousand
I wouldn’t have taken the
powder. Maybe it wasn’t so
smart —maybe it was. I don’t
know.
I don’t know a lot of things,
and I turn and twist in this hos-
pital bed and get into a sweat
because you wouldn’t think all
this could happen in four days
and there’s not a thing I can do
except lie there and fret.
You fret enough you get sort
of sick in the stomach and want
to yell or smash something or
pick a fight—anything so you
can stop thinking and fretting.
But they got me here tied in
bandages with busted ribs and
a bent right hand and my head
sore and there’s no yelling or
smashing or fighting will do any
good. So Delaney’s got to get
a hold of something and put his
teeth in it and hang on.
So about the best thing for
me to get my teeth in is Kathy,
and I lie there and think about
her and presently I got my
teeth where they’ll do most
good. Because she’s way above
all the mess about Martini and
Fat and Elaine and Peters and
she only knows me three days
and smiles that warm smile and
when she finds me hurt in the
yard she don’t get into no panic.
She gets me into her room and
undresses me and washes off
the blood and mud and leaves
me be while she washes my
things. Not many girls like
Kathy. Not many pretty little
pigeons find a man and hear
him babbling about the police
and keep their heads like she
did. She don’t know why I’m
hurt and what I’m saying about
the police, but she don’t run and
call people and make a fuss.
She sees I’m hurt and some
scared and she thinks I’m scared
about the police and done some-
thing wrong. She thinks all that,
but the thing she sees is I’m
hurt and scared and she wants
to help me and think about the
other things afterwards.
Not many girls would drag a
man into their room and put
him in their bed and attend to
him and be quiet about it. That
makes Kathy clean and nice and
way above all this mess and so
help me God that’s the way I’ll
keep her. It looks like I don’t
get much chance at that hundred
frogskins from Elaine now, and
pretty soon I can expect this big
Keough man to come in and be-
gin asking a lot of questions
about Peters and all the other
stuff.
So I got to be ready for
him because I got to keep Kathy
out of it. She’s in it only be-
cause she helped me, and she
helped me out of her heart and
isn’t looking for payment. I
got into this business because I
aimed to pay Nugget for New
Guinea and it looks like the
whole thing got away from me.
It got away from me because
I didn’t know about the three
thousand, I didn’t know Fat was
going to die when I fell on him,
I didn’t know about Peters look-
ing for me with a gun and I
didn’t know about somebody
tailing Peters. So pretty soon
Keough is going to come at me
with questions about Peters and
the only way I can pay Kathy is
keep her out of it. I met plenty
of girls in my time, good and
bad, smart girls and dopey girls,
and I got to scram out of St.
Kilda and come three hundred
miles riding trains and get
picked up in a raid on a pool-
room, and fall on a dead Fat in
the night, and find a letter and
try to sell it to a woman who
put a gun on me, and get out of
that and run into Peters and he
put a gun on me and then did
me over because he thinks I got"
three thousand frogskins.
And I got to stumble along
that lane in the dark, hurt,
and fall through a gate
which ought to be locked
and get picked up and put
to bed by a girl that hardly
ever saw me before. While I’m
in her bed Peters gets shot and
the police all round my hotel
and the girl scared but helping
me just the same. I got to go
through all that to get to know
Kathy and see the kind of girl
she is. I got none of this senti-
mental stuff in me because life’s
a tough game and you got to be
tough with it, but this Kathy
makes me wish a lot of things I
haven’t wished since I was a
kid. Because now I see what
kind of a girl she is it means I
want her pretty bad but I’m
scared I’m not for her. Because
Kathy maybe got a lot of ideas
like what they have in the story-
books and she’s strong and quiet
and nice and she’s likely to hang
on to her ideas. I been in a bad
run of luck ever since I took the
powder out of Martini’s cafd
and it don’t look like it’s finished.
Because the police want to pin
Martini on me, and Fat, and
now Peters. They really go to
work I got no alibis will stand
up if Keough is smart as I think
he is. About the only piece of
luck I run into is Kathy, and it
looks like it won’t last, because
Kathy hears about Martini and
Fat and Elaine and Peters, or
only half of it, she won’t want to
know Delaney.
You’re in this game you’re dh
your own. I meet Kathy and
get to thinking it’s maybe better
if there’s two and one of ’em a
girl like her, but there’s no place
for Kathy in this game. So I’m
on my own and I got to be ready
for Keough because Kathy is
way above it and I got to keep
her that way. I get down in the
(i Continued on page 22)


Every Day in so
many ways Cyclone
serves Australia
Designed to make your home a show*
alace, “Cyclone” Garden Fencing and
brought Iron Gates, Balustrades and
Screenwire Doors fine examples of
“Cyclone” quality workmanship.
FOR OYER 50 YEARS FAMOUS FOR QUALITY
“Cyclone” makes things which are meant to last.
That’s the reason why people buy them to
last, and be strong, and give no trouble, for
many years. As any man knows, if products are
to last longest, they need three things best
designs, best materials, and best workmanship.
“Cyclone” products have possessed all three—
plus reasonable prices for more than fifty
years. That is why, from the heart of the cities
to the farthest outback, “Cyclone” products, made
only by Cyclone Co. of Aust. Ltd., are famous.
“Cyclone’s” reasonable prices are made possible
by great volume of output. Inquire of your local
“Cyclone” distributor, or write Cyclone Co. of
Australia Limited for details of all “Cyclone
products which interest you.
CYCLONE COMPANY OF AUST. LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
C177/7Q/53
3
h
&
&JBBSB
Ns
b.
/
j&.
W
"Cyclone” Prefabricated Frames for
durable, efficient Milking Sheds
“Cyclone” Conveyor Belts
speed production ,
save labour
“Cyclone" Ringlock farm
Fences provide economy
and ease of
erection
The genuine “Cyclone” Gate of famous
“Red Tag” quality
“Cyclone” Factory Fences
protect plant and
property
“Cyclone" Machine Guards
jjive absolute protection •
strong, neat, safe
“Cyclone” Playground Equipment keeps children
safe and happy


bed and shut my eyes and get
ready for Keough, thinking out
how he’ll come at me and get-
ting the answers ready. But all I
can see is Kathy looking at me
from a long way off, with that
smile and the feel of her hands
on me, and it’s like when you’re
a little boy and wake up in the
night and think everybody has
gone away and left you, and the
dark is so big you want to
scream.
CHAPTER X
C|o it’s this big Detective
Keough and me again, only
this time he’s sitting in a chair
and I’m in a hospital bed. They
brought in a boy got himself
smashed up off a motor-bike and
put him in the empty bed across
the ward, alongside the bearded
man who won’t talk to anybody.
So Keough has the nurse bring
a screen and put it round my
bed and tells her he don’t want
to he interrupted.
“How do you feel, Delaney?”
“Good enough.”
“Mind answering some ques-
tions?”
I give a bit of a laugh.
“Same questions?” I ask.
“Yes. Them, and some others.
You know about Peters?”
“They tell me he got shot.”
“That’s right. Last night. You
know anything about it?”
“No.”
“You know he was in Black
Springs?”
I got to keep Kathy out of
this.
“Not till they told me he got
shot.”
“Who told you?”
“People at the hotel.”
“You wasn’t in the hotel when
my boys looked for you.”
“Maybe they didn’t look
good.”
“Maybe. You fell down the
steps?”
“That’s right.”
“You must have been pretty
drunk?”
“Yeah.”
“Listen, Delaney. The medi-
cal report says there was no
signs of alcohol in you ; nobody
at the hotel saw you drinking
there.”
“So what? Doctors can be
wrong, I don’t have to drink
at that particular hotel.”
“Then it was people at some
other hotel told you Peters got
shot?”
“I told you I don’t know any-
thing about Peters getting shot.
You talk like you reckon I did
it, or something.”
Keough leaned over the bed
and put his deep-blue eyes on
me and prodded me on the chest.
“Stop side-stepping, Delaney.
Wake up. Why don’t you tell
me about that row with Martini
and how you came here? It
would save a lot of time —and
trouble.” He sat back in the
chair, watching me.
“I told you the row had noth-
ing to do with Martini getting
shot.”
“Well, if that’s so, what’s the
harm in telling about it?”
“You wouldn’t believe it —
you’d think I was putting one
over you.”
He looked at me and the cliffy
face broke up and he grinned
like him and me was friends.
I’m trying to keep ahead of him
all the time, but when he grins
like that I don’t know what to
make of it. It scares me a little
because the grin could mean he
knows a lot more than I think
he knows —it could mean he’s
got Elaine’s letter to Fat and
talked to Elaine and knows
about me and her, it could mean
he knows about Peters meeting
me in that lane and thinks I shot
Peters. It could mean a whole
lot of things and I look at his
grin and my mind jumps all over
the place.
“Look,” he says. “I’ll tell you
something, Delaney. I’ll tell you
something because I want you
to get it that what I’m trying to
do is clear this business up. If
you’re in it I’ll clean you up
with it. If you’re not in it you
got to tell me things. So I’ll tell
you something: I brought
Peters here i ”
£ thaTrocks me and I got to
have time to get my breath. Be-
fore I got it he rocks me again.
“The three thousand he come
after is held by the police in St.
Kilda.”
“The three?”
“That’s right. After we picked
you up here Peters went into
smoke. Way we looked at it
there had to be a reason for that.
You said you didn’t know where
he was and it looked like you
meant it. We had to find out if
y°u a nd Peters was in this to-
gether. So I sent to the papers
in St. Kilda, telling them the
“He said if I was naked it would be real beauty, because the Bikini was only to excite people.”
Black Springs police was holding
a man named Delaney in connec-
tion with the Martini killing
and that, after questioning,
Delaney had been released and
ordered to report to the Black
Springs police every day. Pretty
soon everybody connected With
the Martini business knew
where you was. And who should
arrive in our bright little town
but Mister Peters,”
I didn’t say anything. This
big detective was a whole lot
smarter than I thought. I lay
there in the bed trying to work
it out. So he used me for a bait
to bring Peters out of smoke.
He nearly got me shot, doing
that, though he didn’t know it.
I felt a funny little quiver go
through me because it would
have been funny if Peters had
put a bullet into Keough’s bait,
though the bait wouldn’t have
done any laughing. It didn’t
look like I was doing any laugh-
ing now, because these police
don’t seem to care what happens
to a man. The St. Kilda papers
got it about me being questioned
in Black Springs it’s a thousand
to one the Black Springs paper
got it, too. Maybe Kathy reads
the paper or hears people talk-
ing and she knows what I’m here
for and she thinks she knows
why I’m babbling about the
police the time she finds me in
the hotel-yard. She knows all
that and still she picks me up
and does her best for me and
that makes her a kind of angel
or something, I reckon, but it lets
me out with Kathy afterwards.
Because she’s not the kind to
play around with fellows mixed
up in shooting business. So I
got nothing to laugh about.
Keough’s got something makes
him laugh. Because he laughs
now, in a quiet way. He laughs
to himself and rubs his chin and
not looking at me. After a
while he stops laughing and
turns to me and the black brows
draw together and he isn’t
laughing any more.
“Yeah,” he says. “Peters come
here because he thought you had
the three thousand. Why would
he think that, Delaney?”
« H ow do t know? j didn > t
even know about the three
thousand until he”
“So vou did see him before he
shot 1?”
§“T didn’t tw »
* dmn t say that,
Maybe But you was going
to say it when you caught your-
So you did see him?”
P ar as f could see right then
there was no harm in admitting
lk Nothing they could pin on
me > £ ven if I did admit it. Peters
Bot8 ot s h°t and maybe they think
d was me because they think I
fh°t Martini and done Fat in.
Way . , th , ey u s< rf 11 sho ° tm 8 Peters
wouldn t bother me, because the
way they re thinking I’m a killer
a nyhow.
“All right, so I saw him. But
it wasn’t me shot him.”
Keough give me a long look
and there was a funny kind of
little grin on him, like he’s a
bit sad about it.
“You’re wrong, Delaney,” he
says.
“I’m not wrong; I tell you it
wasn’t me”
“You’re wrong, because you
reckon we’re trying to put you
in for it. We know you didn’t
do it.”
“Then you got him! You
got the other”
“Him! Who?”
“The other feller. Feller shot
Peters. He must of been
after the three thousand he
thought Peters got from me
because”
Keough come forward on the
chair and leaned toward me and
put his eyes right on me, with
the black brows tight and the
eyes like little stars in back of
them.
“What other fellow are you
talking about? Where does he
come in?’ 3
“Feller shot Peters. You
know I didn’t do it means you
got him and”
“No fellow shot Peters
Delaney . It was a woman . X
Mrs p ate rson. She lives here,
He attacked her and she shot
him. She’s told us all about
it.”
One nart of me knew mv P oh
une part ot me knew my gob
was wide open and my eyes gap-
m 8 at hirn twice as big as they
? ug to be. One part of me
knows his and the other part
nes o straighten me up and
S e ° d of it, but my mind
wasnt working then because a
S r ® at big black wall fell down
and there was nothing I could
do, only gape at this Keough
man
Elaine!
Elaine shot Peters!
Elaine shot Peters with that
little twenty-two what in
hell! How the blazes did
she come into this! Told them
all about it. Shot him with the
twenty-two. Told them about
the letter, about Peters. Peters
got the letter. Elaine shot
Peters. What the
“Now, what about this other
fellow, Delaney?”
The big shock is still sitting
on my chest and I can’t get
through this black wall but I got
to get through it.
“Other fellow —woman shot
Peters?”
“That’s right. Mrs. Paterson.
He attacked her. You wouldn’t
know Mrs. Paterson. Great
woman. Not the kind that
screams and faints when some
lug goes her ; full of guts.”
No, I wouldn’t know her. Be-
cause she’d easy have shot me
if I’m too slow. She’d easy
have put me away, only I pulled
an old trick long enough to get
time to grab the gun and get
myself out of it. No, I wouldn’t
know her, like he said.
“I only thought it must have
been some feller, when I heard
Peters got shot. I thought it
must of been somebody knew
about the dough. I never
thought a woman shot him.”
“You any notion why Peters
went to the Paterson place?”
So Peters found the letter, all
right, and doped it out that there
was some reason why I had it
and so he went to the Paterson
place and got himself shot. He
must have been caught on the
hop because he had a gun him-
self and wouldn’t worry about
using it if he had time.
“No. Did the Paterson people
know him?”
“Never seen him in their lives.
We had an idea Peters was in
Black Springs because one ol
my boys spotted a gink outside
the post-office answered his des-
cription. We lost him last night
and when we did we looked for
you, Delaney. That was about
six-thirty. Couldn’t locate you,
neither. Only one thing to do
then.”
I had to know what he knew
about Elaine and me.
“Yes?”
Keough got out a cigarette
and passed it to me, and one
for himself and flipped a lighter.
“Find you both. Wherever
you were we couldn’t spot you,
and we went through Black
Springs from top to bottom. Not
a sign. Next thing, about half-
past eight, this Mr. Paterson
calls the station by phone and
we hear about Peters. Paterson
is all excited, of course, so we
rush up to his place and get
to work there. Had to calm
them down to get any sense
out of them. We was still
sorting it out when the boys
watching your hotel hear a lot
of noise and some kind of
a rumpus inside and a couple
of them went in. And there's
yourself, Delaney, lying at the
foot of them steps and the yard-
man and the cook and one or
two others trying to put you
together. My boys seen you
was out cold so they called an
ambulance and got you brought
here. And X got to know how
you come to fall down them
steps and where you was when
Mrs. Paterson shot Peters.”
Well, I could talk straight
about that, because I could tell
it without bringing Kathy into
it.
“You know I got plenty wor-
ries, Mr. Keough, about Martini
and what you think about that
dead feller, Baler. Just about
dark last night I go walking
round, thinking about things
because I’m plenty worried.
There’s a park up there and it’s
dark, and I go in and sit there
for a while and smoke a couple
of cigarettes and think about —
well, everything. Then I reckon
maybe I could do with some
sleep and start back to the hotel.
I’m walking slow, not being in
no hurry, and just when I come
to a lane this Peters put a gun
on me.”
So I told this Keough what
happened in the lane and how
1 got to the hotel, but I don’t tell
him about Kathy. I tell him I
got to the hotel and how the
little gate was open and I got
through it and locked it because
I was scared of Peters and his
gun.
“And I must of laid there in
the yard, in the dark. Some time
later I come to and get to the


Te**. 3 s
immm
ill
n
m
m
w
i n
&
•*■•••■
luminium electrical sub-station, built in 1951 in Wellington province, New Zealand, exemplifies the use of
aluminium as a structural material. The structure will never need painting.
Investors
Share in the Australian Development of
the industry in which world trends most clearly
indicate immediate, rapid, vitally needed expansion!
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
4,000,000 Ordinary
Shares of
5/- each £1,000,000
ISSUED CAPITAL
800,007 Ordinary
Shares of 5/-
each (fully
paid) .... £200,002
PRESENT ISSUE
300,000 Ordinary
Shares of 5/-
each will be
applied for
by, and allot-
ted in full
to, Neal
Investments
Limited .. £75,000
899,993 Ordinary
Shares of 5/-
each are
now offered
for public
subscription £224,998
2,000,000 TOTAL £500,000
The requirements of Section 137
of the N.S.W. Companies Act have
not been complied with in this
advertisement for the Prospectus
of Southern Aluminium Limited
dated 22nd October, 1953, for the
issue at par of 1,199,993 ordinary
shares of 5/- each. The minimum
amount which, in the opinion of
the Directors, must be raised by
this issue is £299,998. All applica-
tions for Shares must be made
on the form accompanying the
Prospectus.
The present annual consumption of extruded aluminium products
in Australia, in relation to population, is less than one-quarter of
the consumption in England and less than one-seventh of the
consumption in the United States. This marked lag behind world
trends has been caused by Australia’s hitherto limited facilities for
the extrusion of aluminium and the world shortage in aluminium,
since the war, which is only now being overcome.
Southern Aluminium Limited has been formed to take advantage
of this situation, and plans are now complete to commence produc-
tion of a wide range of aluminium extrusions by May of next year.
Investors, realising that Australian industrial development offers a
sound field for the profitable employment of their funds, will
recognise a particularly attractive opportunity in the offer now
made by Southern Aluminium Limited.
Subscription Lists will close no later than 23rd November, 1953.
For Application Forms, together with copies of the full Prospectus,
write to-day to any member of a recognised Stock Exchange or to:
SOUTHERN ALUMINIUM LTD.
207-213 William Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A member of the Larke, Hoskins Group, having the same
Board of Directors as Larke, Hoskins & Co. Ltd.
BROKER TO THE ISSUE: TONKIN & PLASTO
92 Pitt Street, Sydney
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
steps and Fm about halfway up,
making for my room, when I
missed my step and —well, you
know how it was after that,”
Keough keeps his eyes on me
all the time and I look right
back at him. Because I got to
make it stick so I can keep
Kathy out of it. We keep on
looking at each other and I can
see by his eyes that it’s sticking,
and inside me Fm pleased, be-
cause now I can keep Kathy
out. All I got to do is stick to
what I tell him.
“H’m,’’ he says. “So Peters
threatened to shoot you. Don’t
seem like he was a nice kind of
customer. Maybe Mrs. Paterson
was lucky. And you got no idea
why he went to the Paterson
place?”
I think about that letter
Peters took from me and I get
3t kind of notion Keough don’t
know about it.
“No,” I says. “I got no idea.”
Keough folds his arms and
looks at the floor and frowns.
“Peters was a standover-man,
and did a bit of house-breaking
before he got in with Martini.
He had a record. Him going to
Paterson’s place was just one of
those things, I reckon. How
well do you know him,
Delaney?”
“I told you. I hardly know
him at all.”
“That’s right. Well, I guess
something took him to Pater-
son’s place, and we won’t know
till we get him.”
“Till you get him? But he’s
dead. I thought he”
“Dead! Not him. He got
away. It was dark. But she hit
him, because there was blood on
the ground and some on the
fence, Mrs. Paterson showed
us where he went over the
fence. So we put”
“You mean he’s loose? You
mean you didn’t get him?”
“Oh, we’ll get him, all right.
Inside ten minutes we had the
roads, the railway and the air-
port covered. Right now the
boys are going through the town
with a fine-tooth-comb. They’ll
pick him up. And when they
do we’ll know a lot of things.”
So Peters was loose. He was
somewhere round Black Springs,
hemmed in, with a bullet in him.
A little bullet —a twenty-two—
and maybe it wasn’t bad, though
it made him bleed. But he was
around. I didn’t like that, not
one little bit. Because Peters
was a bad sbrt to have around,
him with his notion that I got
three thousand frogskins, and
with that letter that took him to
Paterson’s place, and funny
ideas about me and Elaine, and
a gun he wasn’t scared to use. I
didn’t like it at all.
“Mr. Keough, what sort of
police they got in this town?
They ought to of got Peters by
now. They”
Keough looks at me and opens
his big mouth and gives out a
laugh.
“Oh, so you want the police
now, Delaney. All of a sudden
you want the police?”
I didn’t want them. But I
didn’t want that Peters loose
and mad and with a gun and me
lying strapped up in this bed.
Because though I told Keough I
didn’t know Peters very well,
ever since he put the gun on me
in the lane and hit me over the
head and did me over I knew
what sort of a man he was. And
now it looked like he still had
that letter, he still had his notion
about me and the three thous-
and, and he was loose and he
still had the gun. When Kathy
told me Peters was shot I
thought she meant shot dead. I
guess I thought she meant that
because I wanted it that way. I
wouldn’t have lost any sleep if
Peters got himself shot dead, be-
cause that way he couldn’t
trouble me no more. So now
maybe I won’t sleep so good, be-
cause he’s alive and he’s around
and I’ll be the bird he’s looking
for. Because you get a man like
Peters in the spot he’s in and his
mind runs on one thing, and
that’s the fellow he reckons put
him there. Way Peters sees it
Fm the fellow put him there be-
cause I didn’t cough-up the three
]thousand, and right now.
wherever he is, it’s me he’s got on
his mind.
“Delaney, you got any idea
why Peters went to Paterson’s?”
“No. Didn’t they have any
ideas? This Mrs. Paterson —
she’d have to talk, wouldn’t she?
Shooting a man, I mean?”
“Yes But it don’t explain
Peters going there. She and her
husband had just finished dinner,
Paterson went into an office he
has in the house, keeps books
and papers there. She—Mrs.
Paterson—was in the kitchen,
They have a woman does the
housework, some of the cook-
ing, name of Mary Young. The
two women was in the kitchen,
Mrs. Paterson had been out in
her car earlier, some message or
other, and she remembered she’d
left her bag in the car. So she
went to the garage to get the
bag. The garage is at the back of
the house. It was dark. She
was coming back along the path,
carrying the bag, and a man
jumps out and grabs her. He
gets a hand over her mouth to
stop her screaming and he tries
to get the other arm round her,
She’s struggling and she feels the
little gun in her bag and she
manages to get it out. She fired
it off, not aiming to hit him, she
says, but to scare him and attract
attention. But the bullet hit him,
and he let her go and got out of
there. When Mary Young and
Paterson get there the man’s
gone and the Patersons all upset,
So they call us. That’s how it
was, all right, but it still don’t
explain what the hell he was
doing there.”
“Lucky she had the gun.
Women allowed have guns in
this town?”
“She is. She got a licence,
She often gets the pay-roll for
the mill-hands—Paterson runs
the flourmill here—from the
bank and takes it up to the mill,
see? So she got a licence to
have a gun. Maybe she was
lucky she had it.”
“Yeah,” I said dryly.
“Maybe you was lucky, too,
Delaney.”
“Me?”
“Yes, you 1 Because we
search around and find Peters’
gun, a Browning automatic
thirty-two. It was near the fence
and had blood on it. The clip
holds seven bullets full, but
there’s three missing, and Mar-
tini had three bullets in him
and they was thirty-two’s from
an automatic. We sent Peters’
gun down to the ballistics boys
at headquarters and you can
have any odds you like they’ll
find the bullets in Martini came
f rom p eters ’ gun so you was
Delanev because we
. £ th t *’• t b t , t
f 1,,. le ‘ S
y T r t u a t ♦
I he there and I got nothing
to sa V b( ; ca use it s just like
somebody lifted a big weight off
me and I can fee l the breath
running easy in and out. Be-
cause it means not only me in
the clear but Nugget, too.
Nugget’s got nothing to worry
about, and I was wrong because
I thought he shot Martini over
Lily, just like Fd of shot him if
I caught him at what I reckon
Nugget caught him at with her.
So it means I don’t have to stall
no more about the row and why
I got out of St. Kilda that night,
I don’t have to stall no more,
because Nugget don’t want time
to make a break now. Because
they’re Peters’ bullets in Mar-
tini and Nugget and me is in
the clear.
So I lie there and look at this
Keough and he looks at me with
a sort of look like he’s pleased
and you’d think we was old pals
looking at each other,
“I bet that did you good,
Delaney,” he says.
“Well, I kept telling you I
never done it.”
“So you did. First off I
thought you was a stone-cold
liar. That night we picked you
up in the pool-room and identi-
fied you. But Peters going into
smoke set me thinking. I got
round to thinking maybe it
wasn’t you. So I doped it out
the way to bring Peters into the
open. Soon’s I heard about the
three thousand I reckoned Peters
would come after you if he
knew where you was. He misses
that dough and he hears about
you shooting through. It’s
guineas to gooseberries you got
the dough, the way he sees it.
So the newspaper boys come
round and I got a statement on
the Martini killing. You bet I
got a statement. We’re holding
a man named Delaney for ques-
tioning in the Martini case and
we warn him not to leave Black
Springs. Well, Peters is watch-
ing the papers. That’s my bet.
It comes off, too, only he tries
for Mrs. Paterson’s bag after he
( Continued on next page )


£fo
na
The NEW
wins
every
round
Improvements built
into the new AR-Line
International 15 cwt.
Utility confirm it as
the champion of the
cruiser weights.
Its power-packed design has been
proved under rigorous "trial by torture”
(International’s test programme) which assures
it has all the punch of a champion for farmer,
grazier or tradesman’s transport.
IT’S A KNOCK-OUT RUNABOUT YOU CAN
PUT YOUR MONEY ON . . .
# The sturdiest utility in its capacity range.
# Semi - elliptic front spring and “I”-beam front axle
for more road clearance and less overhang.
# Body and payload ideally balanced—flexibly sprung.
# The roomiest cab on the road.
VIRILE 6-CYLINDER SILVER DIAMOND ENGINE
Cylinder block hardened by the addition of chrome.
Molybdenum iron exhaust-valve seat Inserts. Extra
compression ring on each piston. U-flex oil rings.
See your local International Truck Dealer or call at the
International Motor Truck Branch in your capital city.
Let us show you why the new AR-Line International
Utility is best for Australia and YOUR best buy today!
f
*
SIX MODELS ;
Capacities from 12 to 23J cwt. —
incorporating these
NEW FEATURES ;
CLEAN, ATTRACTIVE STYLING
makes International Utility sleek
and distinctive—combining the
carrying capacity of a small truck
with passenger car comfort.
CUSHIONED - DISC CLUTCH
provides smoother operation,
longer clutch life.
HOLLEY CARBURETTOR improved
design gives increased efficiency,
economy, serviceability.
TWO-PIECE EXHAUST VALVE
minimizes valve stretch, keeps
valve tappet re-adjustments to
minimum.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
DISTRICT SALES OFFICES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES WORKS DANDENONG AND GEELONG
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
PMT 431-36
left you cold in the lane, and
he gets himself shot,” He let
out a sigh. “Well, that’s how it
is, he says.
That’s how it is, he says. I
lie and look up at the ceiling and
I know there’s more to it than
that. Because there’s still Fat
dead and Elaine and that letter
she wrote him. And there’s still
Peters. Peters must of got the
letter from me. He’s got the
letter, all right, and he’s still got
it, wherever he is.
So I don’t say anything. Be-
cause you don’t get rewards
from these police for speaking
before you have to. I kept my
mouth shut all the time and it
saved me trouble, so far, and
Peters getting himself shot
means part of it works out with-
out me saying anything. I keep
my mouth shut it’ll maybe work
out about Fat, too. Because J
didn’t kill Fat just like I didn’t
kill Martini. I keep my mouth
shut I’m still a jump or two
ahead and I keep Kathy out of
it. I got to keep Kathy out of
it, and the way to do that is
keep my mouth shut. So it’s
shut.
This big detective looks like
he’s going to open his mouth
again, because he still wears
that pleased look. Like some-
body knows a joke and about to
spring it. He gets out a cigarette
and lights it. He passes one to
me and holds the lighter for me.
He sits there and I lie there, and
we smoke away like we’re old
pals having a chat.
“You know a girl named Lily
McArthur?” he says.
I’m not ready for that one,
and it catches me short. Be-
fore I can get anything out he
shoots another one into me.
“Guess you knew her, eh?
She worked for Martini. Well,
she got the three thousand
Peters was chasing!”
Lily!
" Lily got the three thousand.
Keough says the police got the
three thousand. Means they got
Lily. What about Nugget? Lily
got the three thousand means
Nugget
Keough is fishing a lot of
papers from his breast pocket,
and I watch him. Because may-
be he’s going to shoot Elaine’s,
letter at me now, Lily got the
big dough and Keough got Lily
and the police got Elaine’s letter
and Keough is right on top of
everything. Well, I can still
keep Kathy out of it.
Keough holds some papers in
his hand and looks at me.
“You recollect me telling
you,” he says, “how we rounded-
up everybody in Martini’s cafe
and you was missing? Well,
after we turned ’em all loose we
put a tail on each one. Next
day the man following this Lily
McArthur sees her go into the
Bon Marche, that big depart-
ment store. She’s wearing a
black dress. When she come out
she was wearing one of them
short fur coats the women wear.
Our man reported it. The store
said she paid a hundred guineas
cash. So the boys went to a flat
she had with /search-warrant
There was two thousand six
hundrrt in a chocolate-box.Wd-
den m a radio-cabinet. So the
boys pulled her in and asked
about the dough. After a while
s he gave in and told them. They
told me and I told them to keep
quiet about it I wanted
Peters, wherever he was, to think
y° u had it and come after you.
I figured that the money /had
come from Martmrs and that
Peters would know about it.
Here, have a look at her state-
ment. It lets you right out,
Delaney.
ft was written with a type-
writer. You sit down and talk
and they take it down on a type-
writer and then you read it over
and P ut y° ur name on lt Lll V
put her name to it. »
« M name j s Lily Alice Me-
Arthur. I am 25. I am not
marr ied. I live alone in Flat 7,
Brasch Buildings, East Collins-
street. I have been living there
nearly three years. My occupation
is singer. I sing jam stuff and
torch and some old - time numbers,
1 work on radio and sometimes
with dance bands. I was working
f or Mr. Martini, singing three
numbers a night, three nights a
week, in his night-club. He paid
me £l6 a week. I have been
working for him for about six
months. I know Denis Delaney,
but 1 don’t know where he is my-
self - 1 saw in the P a P ers about
him bein § arrested in Black
S P dn f; He^ worked for Mr. Mar-
Dm. Denis Delaney helped me get
the job with Mr. Martini. Denis
Delaney used to go with me. 1
know Mr. Peters. I don’t know
where he is. I understand he is a
partner with Mr. Martini. 1
know Frederick Coombe He is
called Nugget. Denis Delaney m-
troduced me to 1
started to go w jth Coombe, I
started to go w ith him about a
mon th after I met him. He is an
insurance agent. At first Denis
Delaney didn’t know I was going
with Nugget. Denis Delaney used
to sleep with me After I started
going with Coombe I let him sleep
L
™ J en f
™ itute Denis gaV e me money
somet j meS) but that was because 1
was go j ng w ith him. After Nugget
Coombe slept with me he said he
wou ld have to tell Denis because
t h e y were friends. Denis came to
the flat one night and we told him.
There was a row at tost, but after-
wards we were fnends - 1 told
Denis I was sorry. I was scared
they would fight, but Denis went
away and they did not fight. I
used to see him at Mr. Martini’s
night-club. He was always nice to
me, and told me that Nugget
Coombe was a good boy. Mr. Mar-
tini wanted me to sleep with him.
I refused. He used to try and get
me by myself in the dressing-room
or in the rooms behind the cafe,
I told Denis about it and he said
he would keep an eye on Mr. Mar-
tini. He said that because he loved
me and because he was Nugget
Coombe’s friend and because they
were soldiers together in New
Guinea. He said Mr. Martini was
a dirty dago and would have to
keep his greasy paws off me. One
night Mr. Martini caught me alone
in a passage and tried to kiss me.
Denis came and pulled him away
and Mr. Martini called Mr. Peters,
Mr. Peters went towards Denis,
“I’ll fix you,” he said. Denis hit
Mr. Peters and Mr. Peters fell
down. Denis said to Mr. Martini,
“Do you want some, too?” Mr,
Martini just walked away, and
Denis took me out and we went
to my flat in a taxi. Denis left
me there. I expected Mr. Martini
would get another singer and let
me go. But he kept on being nice
to me. He apologised and said
it was because I charmed him. He
was very nice and said he would
pay me £lB a week if I would for-
give him. He said we would keep
Denis there, too, because he
couldn’t blame him for hitting Mr.
Peters. About a month ago Mr.
Martini called me into his office.
He told me he had an idea for
attracting more custom. He wanted
to stage a final number every
Saturday night, and said he would
pay me £lO extra if I would wear
a Bikini bathing-suit and do a slow
roll with my hips and sing a song
called “She Didn’t Know French."
We talked about it, and he was
very nice and had some supper
brought in and I said I would and
he gave me £lO in advance. Mr.
Martini told me a lot about his
business, and said I had great
talent and that he would put me
up high because he had a lot of
interests. He took me home in his
car and I let him kiss me. After-
wards he gave me four gold brace-
lets for my wrists and ankles to
wear in the Bikini act. I remem-
ber he laughed because he said he
didn’t want the people to look at
just one part of me and the brace-
lets would help. After the act
went on the first time, that would
be about three weeks ago, Mr. Mar-
tini said it was sensational and he
wanted me to ma|e a contract for
£3O a week. He said I was a star
now, and it made his night-club
tops in the city. He said he would
see the radio people for recordings
and get me a lot more money. He
said if I wanted money for some
furs or a car or anything he would
advance it. I thanked him and
said I didn’t think I wanted any
just yet. He said it would be best
not to tell my friends about the
money for a while because if people
knew I was getting so much money
I would be worried by salesmen
and what he called harpies touting
for charity. So I didn’t say any-
thing, Mr. Martini was real nice
to me. I didn’t like him at first.
Afterwards I liked him. One night
after the Bikini act he was in the
dressing-room and I was in the
Bikini suit and he cried. He said
he cried because I was so beauti-
ful. He said beauty always made
him cry. He said he cried to him-
self sometimes when he saw lovely
flowers, and the moonlight made
him cry, too. I didn’t like to see
him crying and asked him if 1
could help him. Mr. Martini said
it was a terrible thing about the
Bikini suit, because it made him
feel guilty. He said if I was naked
it would be real beauty, because
the Bikini was only to excite
people. He asked me to let him
see me naked, because I was so
beautiful I made him cry, and the
Bikini made it dirty. I took the
Bikini things off and let him see
me. On the night of the 27th I
was in Mr. Martini’s room. He
had a roll of notes. He told me
it was £3OOO. While we were
talking somebody knocked on the
door and Mr. Martini sang out,
“Who is it?” and Mr. Peters
answered, “It’s me.” I knew it was
Mr. Peters by his voice. Mr. Mar-
tini called out, “I’m busy.” Mr.
Peters said, “Come on, open this
bloody door.” Mr. Martini whis-
pered to me to go behind the cur-
tains at the window. I went be-
hind the curtains and Mr. Mar-
tini unlocked the door and Mr.
Peters came in. They had a row.
I couldn’t hear it all. It was some-
thing about a load of black beer.
Mr. Peters said, “You owe me six
hundred, partner.” Mr. Martini
said, “Look, I’m tired of you; it
wasn’t a bet.” Mr. Peters called
Mr. Martini a bad name and said,
“You got the five hundred on at
six to one and a hundred of it was
mine, and I know you collected
because I saw Percy Blake this
afternoon and he told me he paid
you three thousand.” Mr. Martini
said, “You got it wrong, Peters, it
was only a hundred I got on.” Mr.
Peters said, “You been chiselling
me too long. Martini.” Mr. Mar-
tini said something I couldn’t hear
and they both started shouting. 1
was scared and stayed still behind
the curtains. Mr, Martini and
Mr. Peters kept shouting, and 1
heard them tramping about and
grunting. I would have come out
and tried to stop them only I had
no clothes on and I didn’t want
Mr. Peters to see me like that.
So I stayed there. Then there was
a loud noise like thunderclaps. At
first I thought it was thunderclaps.
{Continued on page 27}


Pugilistic Progression
The Manly Art
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
VANCO Agricultural High
School, in the New South
Wales Irrigation Area,
comes close to my ideal
of a school for boys. Academic
standards, if they are important,
were high in my own time there.
But there was a wonderful free-
dom, bush to roam in, fish in
the yellow Murrumbidgee, ani-
mals, and all sorts of interesting
people whom we met on our
wanderings—drovers, “whalers,”
landowners from Hay and Nar-
randera and Darlington Point,
lovers, sideshow folk . ..
For all that, there was a tough
side to Yanco.
I struck it soon after my
arrival. In one day I had three
fights, for three defeats, with one
opponent. The first two were
more-or-less impromptu, but the
third was settled with all proper
pomp, in the gym. They didn’t
really approve of bare-fi'st fight-
ing at Yanco —they liked every-
thing to be formal, correct, with
everyone in on the fun.
Before going to Yanco I had
developed a technique guard
high and wide which I had
found satisfactory. The theory
was that swings broke on the
forearms and, sooner or later,
the other bloke became tired.
True, the emphasis was on
defence. I remember an argu-
ment with one of the Bakers
from Tumut outside the Church
of England hall at Gundagai (a
juvenile dance going on inside).
At least, it started near the door,
but it went steadily downhill,
right down to the road, young
Baker valiantly swinging and I
retreating. I had the satisfaction
of knowing that throughout the
entire exciting journey young
Mr. Baker hadn’t hit me once.
On the other hand, I hadn’t hit
him.
Jimmy “Tortoise” (affection-
ately known as “Mudguts”) was
a horse from a different stable.
A stocky, shock-haired youngster
from the wheat-country of
Temora —or was it West
Wyalong?—he could box. He
swung, too, but he didn’t miss.
My system broke down.
We fought, on an average,
once a week. Sunday nights,
usually; or, if not Sunday, Sat-
urday. By tacit consent we
didn’t fight more than once a
week. That would be overdoing
things—pampering our public.
There was something cere-
monious about our fights a
ritual. On Sunday nights we
had church-service in the school
hall. Afterwards we could listen
to the wireless, play games, do
pretty-well what we liked. Most
of us went out to our camps in
the sucker-forest. But, before
lights-out, Jimmy and I would
both be in the hall. An excited
ambassador would come skid-
ding across the floor: “Jimmy
says do you want a spar?” I
would nod dumbly, the gloves
would be fitted on, well-wishers
would whisper esoteric advice.
Jimmy would be similarly
attended. In the meantime the
hall was filling. We would touch
gloves. “Just a spar,” Jimmy
would say punctiliously. “Just
a spar,” I Would echo politely.
Then we would get stuck into
each other.
Jimmy always won. A faintly-
obsessional preoccupation crept
into my weekends. Out at camp
I was moody and restless. I
felt that I would be disgraced
for ever if I didn’t keep my
appointment.
It can be amusing in retro-
spect, from a scaffolding of adult
superiority, but it was a black
time. The humiliation, the pub-
lic spectacle, was, I think, the
worst. So much so that I went
to Jimmy once with a proposi-
tion; that we go into the bush
together, just the two of us, and
settle it once and for all.
Jimmy was a realist. “What,”
he wanted to know, “is to stop
you getting a big stick and belt-
ing me?”
I stared at him. The thought
hadn’t crossed my mind. I re-
jected it . . . but not before I
had examined it with a startled
fascination!
One night I walked down the
irrigation-canal, past the dark
willows and dry cumbungi and
stagnant water, to the house
almost hanging over the river.
I asked the surprised man who
opened the door to teach, me to
box.
Mr. Bible came from Mait-
land (N.S.W.), where, as a boy,
he had sparred with the great
Les Darcy. He took to profes-
sional boxing like a duck to
water: his father had been a
bare-knuckle fighter, he told me
once; and he could remember
him, the night before a match,
sitting up pickling his hands in
a tub of brine. While still young
he himself had made his choice
between boxing and his career,
and I don’t think he regretted
his decision. A short, quick,
golden-eyed man, soft of voice
and keen as a falcon, he retained
the adept’s love of the craft.
There were other boys in the
class, better boxers, but none of
them approached my keenness.
Every free half-hour I pounded
the sandbag we had rigged-up
in the shed behind Mr. Bible’s
house. I ran miles. I wrote away
for a strong-man course. I
practised straight-lefts in my
sleep.
Slowly, irregularly, the tide
began to turn. I could see day-
light. The first time I stopped
Jimmy’s berserker rush with a
couple of solid lefts was wonder-
ful. There was nothing so
dramatic as a clearcut win, but
there was an improvement—
which only seemed to make
Jimmy more keen —and I like
to think that the last Sunday
night I had a very slight edge
. . . but on matters like that
the memory cannot be trusted.
We didn’t know, though, that
it was the last fight. The Christ-
mas holidays were coming, and,
before we went home, the
School Boxing Tournament.
Jimmy was in the under-ten-
stone division. Things being as
they were, I could hardly avoid
putting my name down, too. I
trained harder than ever.
At the eleventh hour there was
a scandal, a terrible row, and, as
a punishment for everyone, the
boxing and wrestling tournament
was cancelled. I bore this mis-
fortune very well.
Next year Jimmy didn’t come
back. He had passed his inter-
mediate, and now, presumably,
had gone on the land. It was my
intermediate-year, and a far hap-
pier one. But I continued box-
ing, and other sports, and, a
little to my surprise, at the end of
the year I found myself in the
open boxing championship.
School is like that. Giants
leave, and you grow quickly,
and, before you know it, you
are up among the big boys, Per-
haps I had concentrated too
much on boxing. But, anyway,
there it was. There was no
escape.
There were only four aspirants
for the championship. “Pep”
Davies, an all-round boxer,
wrestler, gymnast, stocky and
very courageous—he was killed
with the Bth Division—Arthur
McGeoch, now a doctor in New-
castle, “Turl” Cooper, now a
veterinary surgeon, and myself.
Of these Turl and I, I think, had
most in common. We were both
trying to prove something which,
in Turl’s case, was unnecessary.
He had proved it already, in the
classroom and on the football
field.
There was a strong prefect-
system at Yanco. The other
three were seniors, prefects. I
was the only representative of
the rankers, the junior school. I
was mixing with my betters.
For the first round of the
tourney I drew Turl. I was
favored in the betting. Everyone
liked Turl—there was, surpris-
ingly enough, a general apprecia-
tion of his motives —and, before
we went on. Bob Carter, who
had just won the under-ten-stone
(he’s a dentist now, in Parkes)
suggested I “go easy.” I shook
my head.
We were big boys, and we
were very fit. Sport, of one
kind or another, all the year
round. No smoking; Regular
meals. Our boxing skill was
superior to that of, say, the
average young fellow, our senior
by four or five years, who,
around country towns, has a
reputation for being handy with
his fists. This was not assump-
tion: we had all proved it.
Given youth and fitness, hours
and hours of practice on a par-
ticular punch, a single move-
ment, under the eye of a good
teacher, can produce that degree
of expertness. But we didn’t,
any of us, have the confidence,
the integrated boxing knowledge,
to slide along comfortably on
pure boxing.
In the fourth round I knocked
Turl out with a right uppercut.
A lucky punch, probably. But I
felt sick when I saw him lying
there, I still feel a little sick
when I think of the damage a
wild schoolboy blow could have
done to his keen brain. The
same night Arthur—“Gick”—
McGeoch cut staunch, rocklike
“Pep” Davies to pieces in a
furious two-handed onslaught.
That meant I met Gick in the
finals.
I liked and admired Gick, but
I was afraid of him, A sandy-
haired, serious-minded youth,
he was vice-captain of the school,
champion athlete, champion
tennis-player, champion just-
about-everything. In the leav-
ing he topped the State in
chemistry, collected first- and
second-class honors —a couple
of each, I think —and, later, he
did well at the University. Three
blues. But he didn’t go in for
boxing after he left Yanco,
although he had some of the
qualities of a first-rate fighter.
I was heavier than Gick, but
whenever we put the gloves on,
down at Mr. Bible’s, his aggres-
sive speed was too much for
me. He couldn’t spar—that was
his temperament —but he could
fight skilfully and fiercely. Once
he had nearly knocked me out
—had, probably—and we had
clashed with bare fists, too,
twice: once, when he was pre-
fect in charge of our class at
prep., and again, in the dormi-
tory, Over a pillow-fight. On
both occasions he had thrashed
me.
There was no trace of the
bully in Gick’s make-up, but, all
the same, I suspect my sudden
rise from obscurity caused him,
as the champion of authority,
to keep an eye on me for any
symptoms of bumptiousness, I
have seen the same sort of thing
in the Army if a private shows
any alarming signs of special
aptitude or education. They
either promote him or slap him
down, and, at first, there is a
nervous tendency to slap him
down.
In any case, Gick was a very
worthy symbol of authority;
and, in my case, he had a for-
midable moral ascendancy.
There was a grace of several
days before the finals. I pre-
pared feverishly. At the same
time I enjoyed something of the
prestige of a sacrificial ox.
Through my fear I was aware of
this, and, so thirsty is youth for
prestige of any kind, I enjoyed
it.
But I was afraid, (Four years
later, on the other side of the
world, I was to look back on
that adolescent fear with won-
der.) The great day came, and
in the morning our class was
assigned field-work. This, I
thought, was unfair. My
precious energy, energy I would
sorely need, was to be squan-
dered on unrewarding ditches,
while Gick, as a lordly fifth-year,
could lounge to his heart’s con-
tent. I reported sick.
To my surprise I was run-
ning a slight temp. —agitation
could do that —and I was
shooed off to sick-bay. There
I took to bed and slept like a
log. That night I went to the
hall, as they say, calm and
resigned.
But there was a check, some-
thing I hadn’t expected. When
I was stripped and ready, the
Head stopped me, an avenging
angel. I was officially sick.
What was I doing fighting? I
couldn’t explain my Macchia-
vellian pre-fight preparations.
On the othef hand, I couldn’t
back out now. All I could do
was shake my head and mumble
in a kind of delirium of respect-
ful obstinacy. The Head looked
me in the eye and I think he
understood. He was a man of
rare perception. But he let me
know pretty plainly that he
didn’t like it.
That lion of authority passed,
the temptation of the devil over-
come, there was Gick, limber
in his swimming-trunks, pranc-
ing chivalrously. Didn’t want to
take an unfair advantage...
fight it off later... Later!
After screwing myself up to this
point! With a desperate sin-
cerity I told him I would never
feel better, more fit to face him,
than I did then. Nor would I.
In screwing myself up to fight
Gick I had taken into account
his fighting characteristics. I
had never yet seen his attack
broken, but I reasoned that if I
could break it in the first hot
minutes, then I might win. Or,
at least, go down with honor.
Nerved to this pitch of near-
hysteria, I shot out from my
corner—and was confounded.
Gick smothered. He ducked. He
sidestepped. He retreated. I
was worried. I had been so sure
of his Rupert-never-comes-but-
to-conquer-or-to-fall attack, and,
in its absence, I attacked wildly,
doubtfully.
I still think such comparatively
sophisticated tactics by a school-
boy, a natural fighter, was rather
extraordinary: Gi c k had
planned every phase of the fight,
and he had the self-control to
stick to his plan. He won.
But I had come out of the
fight with more prestige—which
to the schoolboy is a special
quality, almost the Greek arete
—and more confidence. I was
proud, most of all, of my ability
to take it. Some years later the
thought struck me that this
wasn’t exactly the idea.
There was a phase of the fight
that fascinated me. I turned it
over in my mind, examined it,
as though it held some profound
psychological significance. It
was a moment of complete de-
tachment, when I was vividly
aware of Gick tearing into me,
visually, as it were, when I could
anticipate the impact of each
blow, and didn’t care a damn.
Gick was going great guns,
Rupert - come - at - last-artillery-
and-all, and it seemed to me, in
this fantasy-made-real, that I
just dropped my hands and
watched him with honest curi-
osity. After the fight I ques-
tioned Gick and others closely
and nobody remembered any
extraordinary conduct on my
part, so it was merely a moment’s
aberration under the impact of
Gick’s left- and right-hooks to
the head. With an effort, like
forcing oneself awake, I came
out of this beautiful state and
knocked Gick down. He was
up again quickly, as lively as
ever, but the fact that I knocked
him down with my right hand
impressed me, too.
Some time in the year that fob
lowed there was a golden period,
a sort of lying fallow. What is
remarkable is that we knew it
was a golden time. We swam
and sunbaked, we read books,
we talked with great energy
about what we would do when
we left school. Bert Lane and I
rather thought we might write
novels—either that or become
professional boxers. Something
spectacular,
Bert and I boxed regularly.
We worked out moves, and even
practised them in the lavatory,
sometimes, while the school
slept, so intent were we on per-
fecting our technique. Georges
Carpentier’s complicated waltz-
punch was one we were fond
of rehearsing. We had a won-
derful opinion of ourselves and
of each other.
The only flaw in our content
was an uneasy feeling that we
had reached our peak, that there
was young blood coming on.
The Moon twins, for instance.
Occasionally we would discover
one of these ambitious young-
sters looking at us with cold
consideration. Just wait, that
look said, until I grow a bit...
I began to feel I would have to
leave school before the Moons
grew up.
Bert and I fought in the open
championship. We both weighed
12i stone. It ended in the
fourth round when Bert’s nose,
broken at football, was damaged
again. So I won.
8ut..,. At that stage I had
developed a left-hook that was
really quite good. But in my
pride I forgot the virtues of the
elementary straight-left. All
through the fight Bert’s straight-
left rocked my head back. I
kept plodding on, at the back of
my mind a dull conviction that,
sooner or later, my left-hook
would do something for me. It
did, too. Last year Bert in-
formed me that a later medical
examination showed dislodg-
ment of part of the bony struc-
ture at the back of his neck,
from that night.
For my part, I stood under
the shower for an hour after
the fight. I had a terrible head-
ache and my nose wouldn’t
stop bleeding. I felt fed-up. For
the first time, too, I hadn’t had
the crowd on my side, and that
hurt.
Then, some time later, Sydney.
The Big Smoke. It was bigger
and smokier than I remembered
((Continued on page 30)


No. 7 of a Series
Men who make....
Cafrttm
-thebdtdfoimM
a
"Capstan” packing is a “hand job” done by
girls with deft hands gained from careful training
and experience in this important task. Each 2oz.
is carefully weighed, wrapped in waxed paper to
retain freshness, then placed in the packet. Mr.
Lett Peterkin is in charge of the Department, in
which the weight is scrupulously checked to ensure
accuracy in every package containing “ Capstan’s
own blend.” Succeeding advertisements in this
series go on to explain other interesting phases
in the manufacture of Capstan Tobacco—watch
for them.
“Blended Better 99
CAPSTAN FRAGRANT VIRGINIA TOBACCO
X9B6D 8 53
SPORTING NOTIONS
The Melbourne Cup was a
triumph for Melbourne-owned
Wodalla (14 to 1), who beat Most
Regal (33’s) and My Hero (s’s)
with a little in reserve. The win-
ner was first choice of this page
and My Hero was given as third
selection. Class engaged, bar
two or three, was much below
that of recent years. Wodalla
was bred by his owner, E. A.
Underwood, vice-chairman of
the V.R.C.
Records are made to be
broken, and Hydrogen is now
the greatest stakes-winner in
Australia. The black five-year-
old son of Delville Wood (imp.)
and Sweet Sound by Magpie
(imp.) cost Sydney owner E. R.
Williams 3200gns. as a yearling,
and brought his total winnings
to £57,179 when he cantered to
easy victory in the V.R.C.’s C. B.
Fisher Plate last Saturday at the
remarkably generous starting-
price of 6 to 4 on in a field of
three.
Phar Lap won £66,738, of
which £56,425 was earned in
Australia, so Hydrogen is now
£754 to the good as far as Aus-
tralian winnings are concerned,
and no doubt he will add con-
siderably to his record before
he is retired.
Hydrogen isn’t likely to con-
test any more handicaps, which
seems a wise decision ; but may-
be in certain circumstances this
might bl waived. Hydrogen has
had some easy tasks because he
has been shrewdly and well
placed, and he has raced through
seasons when stakemoney was
higher than ever before in Aus-
tralian Turf history. Phar Lap
won 36 races from 51 starts,
while Hydrogen’s wins total 24.
Comic Court’s 28 wins yielded
£48,579, while Amounis earned
£48,279 from 33 wins and Delta
£46,807 from 21 successes.
One of the most brilliant of
the big stakewinners, Gloaming,
whose total reached £43,100, had
57 wins—the record number —
and was out of a place only once
in 67 starts. And that miss was
due to a fall at the barrier in a
New Zealand event.
Had Gloaming and Phar Lap
competed for the big stake-
money now offering their totals
would have been many thous-
ands of pounds in excess of
Hydrogen’s record figures. For
example, Phar Lap won £B5O
for his Moonee Valley Cox
Plate win as a four-year-old.
Hydrogen’s Cox Plate the
highest w.-f.-a. stake in Aus-
tralian history—was a £4200
event, of which the owner re-
ceived £2BOO, plus the £2OO
trophy.
As a five-year-old also Phar
Lap won the Cox Plate and lifted
a £5OO stake. Several of the
“Red Terror’s” weight-for-age
wins netted less than £750, and
he won from six furlongs to two
miles. He was an effortless gal-
loper and seldom was under real
pressure. There may never be
another like him, no matter to
what extent prizemoney spirals.
James Aitch, who won his first
race, the £lOOO Flemington
Stakes for two-year-olds (it was
the final day of the V.R.C. Spring
carnival, but there wasn’t much
spring about the weather), is one
of the few of the progeny of the
English stallion Billet to win, but
this importation hasn’t had
many runners to date. James
Aitch cost 1300gns. as a yearling,
and is from Houbigant by The
Night Patrol (imp.) from Wot-
tara by Cyklon (imp.). The
youngster is a close relative of
Ungar, winner of several races
a few seasons ago, including the
Doomben Ten Thousand.
Former leading Sydney jockey
Ted McMenamin, who some
seasons ago established a
“Jones versus Jones. It's a grudge-fight."
thoroughbred - breeding stud,
Glencroft, at Wodonga (Vic.),
appears to have bred a most
promising two-year-old filly.
She is Queen’s Vista, winner of
two races at Flemington, best
being the £lOOO Mimosa Stakes
at the Cup meeting. McMena-
min, leading Sydney rider
in the 1939-40 season with 117
wins, rode with success for “S.
J. Ande,” who owns the filly.
Steady rain and wild winds
reduced the final Flemington
day attendance figure to a record
low, 15,400. On the correspond-
ing day 12 months ago 34,500
attended. Thousands of Mel-
bourne’s regular racegoers ex-
pected a last-minute postpone-
ment and stayed away. Those
who attended should have held
their own or shown a profit,
provided they left the last event
alone. That was the Final
Handicap, won by 12-to-l Gal-
lant Rob. Totalisator figures
dropped 50 per cent.
•’ •! • •]
As at Flemington, the last race
at Rosehill on Saturday was
won by an outsider, Stage Act,
at 25 to 1 ; he had an all-the-
way win. All other seven win-
ners had solid backing, two
starting favorite.
Randwick trainer T. J. Smith
stables many horses, but at the
moment luck isn’t favoring them.
This time last year the stable was
in grand form, especially with
its younger gallopers, and this
season the stable’s two-year-olds
gave excellent promise in barrier-
trials, which form, however, has
not been reproduced to anywhere
near the extent hoped. The stable
has won several races with older
horses, but some defeats have
proved most costly. At Rose-
hill on Saturday it lost with
Townsman, Sky Hawk, Water-
lady, Krakatoa and Forest
Land, all strongly backed. For-
est Land, unlucky in the Welter,
was backed from 4 to 1 to 9-to-4
favoritism, but may have needed
the run, as it was only his
second outing after a spell of
several months. Fbrest Land was
handy most of the way but was
inclined to move about in the
straight, and Moore had to watch
him closely. His | third in the
circumstances was a promising
effort, and he could make
amends next time out.
Former crack jockey Jim
Munro, who won the Melbourne
Cup on Windbag and on States-
man, the A.J.C. Derby on Prince
Humphrey, two A.J.C. Epsoms
on Amounis and the Sydney Cup
on Prince Charles, as well as
many other important races, is
trainer of Rosehill two-year-old
winner Bay Monk, who was
having his third race start.
Noel McGrowdie took the
riding honors at Rosehill with
three successes, Fairglo, Iroquois
and El Ziet, all well backed, par-
ticularly Iroquois, who looked a
safe investment in the Flying,
as the opposition was weak.
Fairglo, who won his first race,
the First Maiden, is raced by
Armidale grazier A. E. Cobcroft,
who bred file colt. Veteran New-
castle trainer Ray Cashman was
keen on the colt’s prospects,
so were many others, because
his price shortened rapidly to
5 to 1, third-favoritism. Cash-
man had trained Vanity Fair,
dam of Fairglo, for Cobcroft,
and had won races with that
mare. Whirlaway (imp.) is sire
of Fairglo, who was sent through
a narrow opening between
Nirobi and First Again less than
100 yards from the winning-post.
It was a “blanket” finish, but
McGrowdie Just got his mount
through.
The Queensland Cup (two
miles) has seldom been won by
a visiting galloper because by
mid-November most of the best-
class southern horses have com-
pleted racing for the time being.
Occasionally a Sydney middle-
distance runner is sent to Bris-
bane for the event, and El Ziet,
Rosehill Handicap-winner of
Saturday last, will carry his
owner’s colors in the Cup next
Saturday week. Owner W. H.
Tyler, who has Puen Buen stud,
Scone (N.S.W.), decided this
after the imported five-year-old
had come from the rear of the
field and scored in a style indi-
cating staying ability. El Ziet
appears to hold real prospects
in Brisbane and may be ridden
by Noel McGrowdie, who
handled him with skill on Satur-
day.
Highlight of racing this com-
ing Saturday will be the Mel-
bourne Racing Club’s old-estab-
lished Williamstown Cup, a
£4OOO event run at Caulfield
over \\ mile, with a £3OO Gold
Cup attached; also there’s a
fourth prize of £lOO. Final
acceptances were due today
(Wednesday), so composition of
the field was not available when
this went to press. Melbourne
Cup placegetters were among
the first acceptors, and if Most
Regal is in the line-up he might
atone for defeats into minor
places in both the Caulfield and
the Melbourne Cups. The un-
lucky Earldom also has his
chance to land a major event,
while My Hero must also be
considered.
Shannon gave Australian-bred
horses a grand boost when, sold
to U.S.A. interests for more than
£30,000, he won £(A)65,661 in
that country. He later was sold
to a Kentucky thoroughbred
breeder for upwards of £93,000.
Phar Lap won £10,313 at his
only appearance in the U.S.
American two-year-olds raced at
New Jersey last Saturday week
for a world’s record stake,
£(A) 111,600. These figures give
some idea of the huge money
Prince Morvi could possibly win
there. First money for the
record two-year-old U.S.A. con-
test was £(A)66,960, which is
more than Phar Lap won during
his whole career and in upwards
of 50 starts.
* * *
Nineteen - year - old Adelaide
University opening batsman
John Lill (mentioned B.
21 /10/’53) was originally sel-
ected in the S.A. team to play
W.A. at Perth on Friday. He
later withdrew. Only newcomer
is left-hand pace-bowler Ken
Horsnell, who’s got Noblet’s
job. Selection of Horsnell means
that S.A. now has three left-arm
bowlers out of the four stock
bowlers in the side (Wilson and
Manning the others).
Lindwall, earlier said to be a
doubtful starter for N.S.W., is to
play against Queensland, at
Brisbane, on Friday. Not count-
ing Miller, the team has two
other pace men, Arthur Fagan,
the only one in the twelve new
to Shield cricket, and Jack
Clark, who played last year for
Queensland. Clark had not been
back in N.S.W, for the 12
months required by Sheffield
Shield rules and his selection
was conditional on the approval
(granted) of the other States.
N.S.W. has two 17-year-old
batsmen, lan Craig and Bob
Simpson (who played his first
State game at the end of last
season). A noteworthy omission
is Sid Carroll, who’s been in
and out of the State XI for
several years; a few critics
wanted him in the side for Eng-
land. He’s a sound batsman,
but has been supplanted by the
younger Ron Briggs, who got in
last year when the Test men
were away; he had a good
season. The team has three
openers, Morris, Briggs and
Jim Burke.
Queensland has the same team
which played in the last Shield
match last year, with one change
—Mick Harvey, brother of Neil,
in place of Tim Ayres. Harvey
is back after being dropped in
1951-52 and being passed over
altogether last season.
The round of Melbourne
grade-cricket played on Cup day
was on rain-soaked wickets, and
bowlers generally had field-days.
Neil Harvey, for Fitzroy,
played one of the best knocks
(54). In the University-v.-
Prahran game, a Prahran bowler,
Waldron, took the hat-trick. As
remarkable was Uni.’s second
innings, when only one over was
bowled, four batsmen faced the
bowler and not a run was
scored, Hyland, the bowler, took
3-0. Despite these batting
crashes Uni. won the match by
27 runs on the first.
“J.H.”: In a recent Adelaide
grade-match Kensington hit-up
428 for 6 against Prospect, and
it was the first time since the war
that an Adelaide team had passed
the 400-mark in an afternoon’s
play. Last occasion was in
1939-40, and Kensington was
also then responsible (438 for 5
against Glenelg). Principal con-
tributor to that earlier total was
Bradman, who got nearly three-
quarters of the runs (303). In
this present instance there were
two century-makers, promising
State youngster Trowse (102) and
Mutton (131). A score of more
than 400 would be rare in grade
in any city.
“K.R.”: Reported that the
first “Test” between India and
the Commonwealth team, set
down for Lucknow, has had to
be cancelled because rioters
had dug up the pitch and dam-
aged the pavilion. This is prob-
ably the first time, for any
reason, that a Test has had to be
cancelled. Lucknow is a trouble-
centre of old. Whether for that
reason or no, no matches at all
were played at Lucknow by the
1949-50 and 1950-51 Common-
wealth teams or by the M.C.C.
team in 1951-52.


Then I knew it was in the room.
I was frightened to death. I
couldn’t hear anything after that.
I could smell something like fire-
crackers. I peeped out and I
thought Mr. Martini and Mr.
Peters had gone away. I came out
and then I saw Mr. Martini lying
on his side and blood on him. I
got in a panic. I didn’t want any-
body to see me with no clothes on.
I grabbed my things and ran down
the passage to my dressing room.
When I went past Mr. Martini to
the chair for my clothes the roll
of notes he’d showed me was under
the chair. I don’t know how it
got there.' I was in a panic. I
wasn’t thinking. I picked up the
notes and my clothes and ran
along the passage. I got dressed
as quick as I could. I was in a
panic and I wanted to get out of
there. I didn’t want to be mixed
up in it. I thought Mr. Martini
was dead. When I dressed I put
the notes in my bag and went
into the passage. There are stairs
at the back and I thought I would
go that way. I was in a panic.
When I got to the stairs Nugget
Coombe was there. He said.
What’s wrong? Before I could say
anything Denis Delaney ran along
the passage to us. He said to us,
Go for your lives. Nugget Coombe
said. What’s wrong? Denis
Delaney pushed us both down the
stairs. He said. Blow, go on, blow;
Martini has had it. I was in a
panic and I caught hold of Nugget
Coombe and pulled him and we
ran down the stairs. We went out
the back door. We went along the
street and got a taxi and we went
to my place. After that I don’t
remember. I was in a panic and
sick. Nugget undressed me and
put me to bed and said he would
go to an all-night chemist and get
a sleeping tablet. He came back
and gave me the tablet and I slept
till next day. I don’t know where
Nugget went after he gave me the
tablet. I don’t know where Denis
Delaney is. I don’t know where
Mr. Peters is. I didn’t see Mr.
Peters shoot Mr. Martini. I only
heard the shots. About the money.
I didn’t think about it till next
day. Nugget Coombe came to see
me. He told me the police wanted
everybody to go to Mr. Martini’s.
He took me there. When we got
there the police were there and
all the people they had. We sat
on chairs. We went into the room
one by one and the detectives
asked us questions. I was still in
a panic and I told lies. It was
lies. I said I’d left the night club
and gone home at twelve o’clock.
I said Nugjjet Coombe took me
home. That part was true. It
wasn’t true about the time. It was
nearly one o’clock when Mr. Mar-
tini and Mr. Peters had the row.
Nugget Coombe and me arranged
for me to say that about the time.
Nugget said he would back me up.
He said just for me not to know
anything. He said he would see
Denis and cook it up with him.
Denis wasn’t there when we were
sitting on the chairs waiting to see
the detectives. Nugget said it
would be all right just not to
know anything. The detectives
asked me some questions and let
me go. They asked if I saw Denis
Delaney when I left the night
club. I said. No. I said I didn’t
know where Denis was. That part
was true. It was true when I said
I didn’t know where Mr. Peters
was. They didn’t ask me any-
thing else. Nugget Coombe went
in and they asked him things. He
told me what they asked him and
what he said. They told us to go
home and not go away with-
out telling them. We didn’t
mean to go away. I was
scared because I thought it might
come out about me being with
Mr. Martini and having no clothes
on. I didn’t want Nugget or
Denis to know about that. After
the questioning we went to a hotel
for a drink and I went to the
ladies room. I opened my bag and
saw the roll of notes. I swear I
hadn’t thought of it up to then.
It went right out of my mind. I
shut the bag and went back to
Nugget and we drank two
whiskies each and then we went
to my flat. Nugget said he was
worried about Denis. He said he
thought Denis must have done it.
Shot Mr. Martini. I thought I
would tell him about me being
there. Then I thought I better
not. Nobody knew I was there.
I thought it best not to say any-
thing. I didn’t want Nugget to
know about me being there.
When he said he thought Denis
might have done it I said it was
silly. Nugget said Denis was silly
in some ways. He said Denis
might do it. You know, Lily, he
said, Denis done his block on you
and he’d be likely to bowl Martini
if he thought Martini was having
you on. I said. Why didn’t he
bowl you, then? Nugget said,
That’s different because Denis is
my pal and it’s not the same if
Martini tried it. That was the
night I told Nugget about the
money. I don’t know why I kept
the money. I thought nobody
would know about it. I thought
if Mr. Martini was shot somebody
would take over the night club and
I wouldn’t have my job. I thought
Mr. Peters was his partner. I
thought Mr. Peters would take
it over. I know Mr. Peters
doesn’t like me. He doesn’t
like me because I caused him
to get hit by Denis. He never
spoke to me but I knew he didn’t
like me. I thought I would lose
the job and nobody knew about
the money. I thought I would
keep it because I would be out of
a job. Mr. Martini promised me
such a lot. When I knew he was
dead I thought it would be all
right for me to keep the money.
When I told Nugget about the
money he was upset. He told me
to put it away. We talked about
it that night. In the morning
Nugget said we could go away
with the money. He said he was
in the clear about the shooting.
He said. The police think it was
maybe Denis or Peters. He said
we would wait a day or two till it
blew over then we could go away.
He took some of the money, three
hundred I think, and told me to
put the rest away. It was all in
single notes. I bought the fur
Coat because I thought we would
be going away. It was nearly all
my own money bought the coat.
I say Denis Delaney and Nugget
Coombe never took the money. I
took it at first because I was in
a panic. Afterwards, I thought it
wouldn’t matter, because nobody
knew about it and I might lose my
job. This is all true as far as I
know and is made without threats
or promise of any special treat-
ment. I know that it may be used
as evidence against me.
Lily Alice McArthur
Signed before me,
Alex. L. James,
Sergeant of Police.
{To be continued next week)
The WITCH
by Saucy
keesing
f \ NNANVILLE HOSPI-
- TAL had employed a
I French-Canadian medi-
cal-officer who christened
Sister Stolt “Le Loup Garou” in
memory of a childhood folk-tale
he remembered ; not so much
after a character as for its
unpleasant atmosphere. The
name was translated and altered
and she was now known as The
Wolf Witch, or The Witch.
Witch was not a euphemism,
either, but, rather, a subtle pun.
For Miss Stolt, while un-
doubtedly a bitch, also caused
in her associates an uncanny,
prickling, unwholesome sensa-
tion—she was so perfectly hor-
rible that it was nearly impos-
sible to believe in her. Even the
most dogmatic people find fit
difficult to credit an entirely
wicked personality. Since medi-
eval times we have tended to dis-
count the concept of pure evil.
The best that could be said for
Miss Stolt was that some of
her patients made rapid re-
coveries in order to escape from
her ward.
Her voice was ghastly—the
sort of voice which the best
Shakspearian actors infuse into
Hamlet’s father’s ghost. A voice
Lazarus might have spoken with
for the first few minutes after his
revival.
“Nuhrrse, Nuhrrse,” she
would call, “what do yuh think
yuh arre duhing?” Or:
“Noh, Nuhrrse. We cahn’t
have thaht! ” Or:
“Nuhrrse, this is a hahspitahl,
not a buhtchery.”
To reproduce that voice you
have to speak both from the base
of your throat and through your
nose at the same time. You will
find, by experiment, that this
can only be done by lifting your
head well up and thrusting it
forward. Sister Stolt always
held her head like that.
Such a head! She was
strongly built but bloodless: as
if she had almost been an albino
but her heredity had stopped
short of white hair and pink
eyes. Her eyes were light-yellow,
matching the lashes and her
pallid, uncolored skin. But
whereas albinos’ skins are often
pinkish because the blood shows
through, hers was an opaque
ivory-white, very smooth —uni-
formly-textured on face and
arms and presumably every-
where else on her body. Even
her lips were of the same color.
But her hair, or what little of it
showed at the front of her veil,
was dark-grey, suggesting that it
had once, improbably, been
black.
Sister Stolt’s ward was
“men’s surgical.” It was the
neatest and most antiseptic
domain in Annanville Hospital;
operating-theatre not excepted.
“Nuhrrse —haow mahny times
muhst I tell you: nuh look.
Jones is untihdy.” And a pro-
bationer would rush to hoist
poor Jones up on to his pillow
and to adjust the top of his sheet
to an exact six-inch turnover.
The newest probationer at any
given time seemed to spend most
of her days straightening beds.
AND Miss Stolt hated to
see even a patient idle: but
not from such nonsensical be-
liefs as that occupation could be
an aid to therapy: ■
“Nuh Soames. Yuh’ll ruin
yuhr eyesight reading. I hahve
a jahb for yuh.” The job was
invariably cunningly chosen to
cause its performer the maximum
distaste or embarrassment, A
clumsy laborer with three fingers
missing from his right hand
would be set to unpicking hand-
sewn ward-markings from worn-
out linen due for the duster-bag.
A self-conscious sixteen-year-old
with a fractured leg was forced
to learn to knit floorcloths, and
once he could knit she made
him acquire the craft of crochet.
Fortunately his mother/borrowed
enough money to transfer him
to a convalescent-home before
he graduated to tatting.
Every day at least one nurse
would be in tears. Miss Stolt
liked to badger her victim
into breaking down as publicly
as possible—in the middle of the
ward; better still, during visit-
ing-hours ; best of all when
medical staff, especially person-
able ones, were present. Her
commonest procedure for caus-
ing tears was simple: choose
your victim, criticise everything
she does, undo something she
has completed, such as a bundle
of sterile dressings, and make her
do it again ; come quietly be-
hind her and suddenly boom
out:
“Nuhrrse!” and repeat this
prescription for every hour of
a working day until the proba-
tioner, most often a nervous
eighteen-year-old, is brought to
the stage when a pin dropping is
sufficient to snap the infinitely
threadbare icord of heir com-
posure.
“Why d’ youse put up with
’er?”
“I’m on your side, Nurse.”
“Haven’t you girls got a
union?”
“Can’t you complain to
Matron? — I’ll tell her.” The
patients hated Sister Stolt,
but those who showed their sym-
pathy for the nurses found that
if they demonstrated their feel-
ings in any overt fashion the
nurses were subjected to more
delicate refinements of sadism
for days afterwards.
Matron must have received
complaints: it was known that
even honorary medical staff had
approached her, but three things
stood in Sister Stolt’s favor.
Firstly, she was a walking text-
book on nursing. Any trainee
who survived three months in
“men’s surgical” knew more
about the spadework of nursing
than she would learn from an-
other Sister.
Secondly, for various reasons,
Annanville Hospital found it
difficult to retain a full trained
nursing staff. It was geographic-
ally inconvenient in relation to
the city, and its nurses’ home
was old-fashioned and unat-
tractive by modern standards.
But, most important of all, was
Sister Stolt’s almost legend-
ary record in Egypt during the
first world war. She had saved
a field-hospital under fire ; had
removed her patients without
loss, and, later, run a base-hos-
pital under inconceivable diffi-
culties, gaining several decora-
tions and a page in the official
war-history.
What the native hospital-em-
ployees thought of Miss Stolt
would interest students of
demonology. It is, however, not
easy, even years afterwards, to
sack a famous heroine.
Trainee - nurses are
usually youngsters. When
Una Farburn was sent to The
i Witch for three months, her first
[ ward-placement, patients, nurses
■ and doctors realised that Greek
was, at last, about to be matched
with Greek. Una Farburn was
tall, taller than Miss Stolt,
six-feet-two, in fact. She was
twenty-nine years old, poised,
confident and competent. She
had a Bachelor-of-Science de-
gree and had been an A.W.A.S.
officer during the war. Now, to
the consternation of her family,
She had decided to join a medical
mission in Africa ; and although
her work was eventually ex-
pected to be mainly scientific —
research into the pathology of
several obscure native diseases
—she thought it necessary to ac-
quire a nursing-training, too. In
spite of her height she was
with a calm, serene
face marked with lines of humor
about the mouth and eyes, but
marked, too, with an indefinable
severity of religious fanaticism,
that was most pronounced, per-
haps, in her deep brown eyes.
Matron herself introduced
Sister Stolt to Nurse Far-
burn with a brief biographical
note. Later, as she left the ward,
her expression was expectant.
Sister apparently saw no
reason to vary her initial
routine. She set nurse to scrub-
bing bedside lockers, all four-
teen of them, outside, inside and
drawers; gave her twenty
minutes in which to do it.
“Where do I find the
materials, Sister?”
“Don’t ahsk me, Nuhrrse. A
good nuhrrse discovers what she
needs for herself.” The senior-
probationer provided bucket,
brushes and cloths and liquid-
soap. Nurse Farburn com-
menced to scrub lockers.
“Nuhrrse. Nuhrrse, What
disinfectant are yuh uhsing?”
“Liquid eucalyptus - soap.
Sister.”
“Cahn’t yuh girrls use yuhr
brains? I insist on a tablespuhn
of cahbolic.” And so on. At the
end of thirty minutes five lockers
were unscrubbed.
“I’ll skip morning-tea,” said
Nurse Farburn obligingly.
“Nuhthing of the sort,
Nuhrrse. Nuhrrses need nourish-
ment. Never let me hear such
stuhpidity again.”
After three days she was un-
comfortably altering her tactics.
“Yuh may be a scientific
genius, Nuhrrse, but if yuh
cahn’t keep the beds straight
yuh’re a fuhl. I’m not overcome
with yuhr suhpposed cleverness,
you know, Nuhrrse.”
Unfortunately her sarcasms
seemed to lack conviction in de-
livery when spoken to a face
three inches above her. After
three weeks Nurse Farburn had
become speedy and proficient in
her work, leaving scope for few
complaints. She had not cried.
She not only appeared able to
exercise Christian forbearance
without loss of dignity, but she
seemed to have The Witch’s
measure. It was as if she had
decided:
“Here is evil. Evil I hate.”
“Nuhrrse, are yuh being im-
pertinent?”
“No, Sister, truthful.”
“Nuhrrse! ”
“Certainly. I have said it is
impossible for me to be polish-
ing bedpans and straightening
beds at the same time, and that is
a question of feet. If you doubt
it I’ll simply consider you more
unreasonable than I already do.
I respect your professional
ability and I want to learn from
you, but you cannot teach me to
do something which you couldn’t
do yourself.”
“I may hahve to report yuh
to Matron, Nuhrrse.”
“Please do.”
THE Swedish seaman with
D.T.s was admitted to “men’s
surgical” because of his broken
arm, and remained after the
fracture had been set in plaster
because he was too noisy for
“men’s medical,” because there
was no rush on surgical beds
and because the shipping firm
concerned would guarantee that
he would have a passage home
within a week. After two days’
medication he quietened down.
Sister Stolt insisted, how-
ever, that, if her ward was to be
burdened with what she called
“a potentially dangerous lout,”
he should be confined in a
straitjacket. The senior sur-
geon disagreed, but The Witch
saw the matron and won her
fight.
Although he spoke no English
the Swede seemed to know
where the responsibility for this
indignity and discomfort lay. He
was a huge man with a deep,
rumbling voice, and to every-
one’s amusement he cursed Sister
whenever she came within ear-
shot. He presumably used every
Swedish obscenity in his reper-
toire: all the words (in Swedish)
which most of the other patients
would greatly have liked to em-
ploy.
{Continued on page 20)


Elements of an Industry '
No- 23 of a Series
iwniPHnH
glifeCh^Ms
ipiilßi ltd
s«u?iynu"« ;;
#
LUli
I
ki
M
sr
Ml
mss
»*
liiii
mmm
mm
33l
MM
m
BORON Pure Boron has few uses, but the compounds of
this element are of great value to industry, sodium tetraborate, known
to most people as ‘borax’, being by far the most important. Borax
was originally found in Tibet, but the bulk of the world’s supply now
comes from California, where kernite, a crude form of sodium borate
is mined from a deposit 4 miles long and 100 feet thick lying beneath
the Mohave Desert. Borax is used to make porcelain enamels for
baths, refrigerators and basins. It is important as a flux in brazing
and welding, and in the refining of precious metals, and it is used in
laundries, and for domestic water softening. Both borax and boracic
acid are well known in medicine, and other boron compounds are
employed as glazes for ceramics, in the manufacture of heat-resisting
glass and in agriculture.
In Great Britain 1.C.1. manufactures the boron compound sodium
perborate, which is used in large quantities in household washing-
powders. It is also an important ingredient of denture cleansers and
other toilet preparations, besides having uses in industry as an oxidis-
ing and bleaching agent.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LTD.
L. 478.3171
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JAMES GAULT REID late of Bondi
Junction.—TAKE NOTICE that MAR-
GARET STELLA REID has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1597 of 1953 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 6th day
of January 1954 and obtain a free copy
of the Petition from MESSRS. DENSLEY
& DOWNING, Solicitors, of 149 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar. _____
IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —Ik Divorce.
TO IRENE WfRTHIEST BOOTH.—TAKE
NOTICE that JAMES EDWARD BOOTH
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 282!*
of 1947 on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by 19th of January 1954 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
Wl D. SCHRADER & DUDLEY, 113 Pitt
Street, Sydney, New South Wales. —
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE COLLECTIVES FLOP
Sweeping changes in Soviet
rural policy under Malenkov,
particularly the concessions giv-
ing a better deal to the general
peasantry, signpost a major
failure of collectivisation in the
view of British onlookers.
“The Soviet leaders,” com-
ments London “Time and
Tide,” “have admitted that the
collective-farm system has, on
the whole, been a failure/and
they have announced a series of
measures which point to the
existence not only of a major
crisis in agricultural production
but to widespread discontent, if
not actual unrest, among the 120
million peasants. The facts and
figures published by the Central
Committee of the Soviet Com-
munist party paint a gloomier
picture of the Soviet economy
than any Western ‘expert’ has
dared to describe.
“TEA. . •
in m S « S m l °l lS
... . . | n S’ a dto
w icn special attention has been
devoted ever spice the war.
Despite these efforts the total
attle . P°P a l atl ® a j ess fh an
•3 L a 3, 00 le ? s than
j V eS j , an m
~ nnr\ /w\. by over
z,uuu,uuu in the last year. The
~ . ™™ ber + °} c . e m lb®
b Viet umon today is no greater
h n it was m pre-revolutionary
Russia, which was much smaller
both in temtory and in popula-
10 °"
“So much for ‘Socialist agri-
culture.’ The authorities have
revealed that a similar state of
affairs exists in the production
of milk, wool, potatoes and
vegetables.
“Various explanations for
the situation have been offered
—bad organisation, lack of
skilled farm-managers, concen-
tration on heavy industry, short-
age and misuse of machinery,
In short, every reason but the
right one—the complete failure
of the collective-farm system.
“That this is the real reason
is shown by the measures pro-
posed to deal with the situation
—summed up as ‘increasing the
material interestedness of the
farm-worker in increasing pro-
duction.’ In other words, the
Soviet leaders, while formally
reta mmg the collective farms,
are f° rced to appeal to the
‘capita.list’ instincts of the Soviet
P easant to extract agriculture
f rom * ts present state of stagna-
tion - Private farming and
stoc k-breeding are to be en-
couraged, taxes on private hold-
m§s are to be reduced and prices
P a ’ d f° r deliveries to the State
will be substantially increased.”
Edinburgh “Scotsman” con-
trasts the account of the pro-
gress °f world agriculture given
in the report published of the
United Nations Food and Agri-
cultural Organisation and the
announcement by Moscow that
exceptional measures are to be
taken to step-up the output of
Russian agriculture:
“The F.A.O. report points out
that for the first time since 1939
WO rld production of food and
agriculture caught up with the
growth of world population, and
that production has expanded
ra pidly in the more advanced
countries. Improvements have
been particularly noteworthy in
North America, where not only
have agricultural exports been
doubled but large stocks of
some commodities have also
begun to accumulate.
“The position in Russia, how-
ever, is evidently different,
Not only have deliveries been
substantially below expectations,
but in. important respects
Russian agriculture has been
falling behind instead of making
progress. Results have been
poor on the State farms as well
as on the collective farms.
“The remedial measures indi-
cate that the Communist hier-
archy realise that the blame
must be attributed not to the
farming community but to the
nature of Soviet rule itself. Com-
munism has failed to ‘deliver the
goods,’ and, as was the case in
the ’twenties, there is to be a
reversion to more material in-
centives and encouragement for
private enterprise. It is the
mechanism of private enterprise
rather than of State Commun-
ism that is to deliver the goods.”
On the lavish bribes being now
offered to the peasants, London
“Daily Telegraph” reports:
“They are to be paid over
five-and-a-half times more for
their cattle and poultry, twice
as much for butter and more
than twice as much for potatoes.
These prices, it will be noted,
are not aimed at coaxing forth
extra ‘voluntary’ production of
food; they are increased pro-
curement prices for allocations
compulsorily made to the State.
Further bribes are offered for
produce which the farmers are
not obliged to hand over. An
admission that the State has
been so grossly underpaying its
primary-producers cannot have
been willingly made. It is ex-
plicable only on the assumption
that peasant resistance to in-
creased production is threatening
to undermine the basis of Soviet
policy.”
A London “Financial Times”
writer has noted that Moscow
has lately been signing con-
siderable contracts for the pur-
chase, above market prices, of
butter from Australia, butter
and meat from New Zealand,
butter and cheese from Holland,
butter from Denmark, meat
from Argentina and fish from
Iceland:
“These,” the writer com-
ments, “are but a few of the
needs of the land declared to be
flowing with milk and honey.
Mr. Malenkov’s contempt for
the capitalist system, and his
boasts about Russia’s great
powers of productivity, are be-
lied by his swoop on the agri-
cultural products of benighted
capitalist countries.
“It is not hard to see why
these agricultural products are
so high on Russia’s shopping-
list. For, despite the pious be-
liefs of Left-wing Englishmen,
the famous Russian develop-
ment programmes have, in fact,
always been lopsided. Agri-
culture has been bullied and
New York “ Herald Tribune”
“COME ON, PAY UP, YOU LOST THE BET!”
neglected for the benefit of
grandiose but clumsily-handled
industrial expansion,
“This business of industrialis-
ing Russia in a hurry has in-
volved most frightful human
sacrifices. It has led to a big
production of shoddy goods, but
only at the expense of agricul-
ture. No wonder, then, that
Russia, which is naturally a
great agricultural country,
should now be importing butter
from every country prepared to
sell it.”
Germans at Work
“In the cities of Western Ger-
many they are working like bees
who have gone back to a half-
burned-out hive confident in
their determination to build it
up again and with visible signs
that it is well on the way to
being done.”
Thus, member of the House
of Commons Emrys Hughes, in
one of a series of articles in
Edinburgh “Scotsman.” He
said further that if he were
asked to state the priorities in
which Germans are mainly in-
terested he would put “work,
sport, the pictures well before
politics.”
On which the “Scotsman” has
commented;
“Would a German observer of
conditions name ‘work’
as one of the three main in-
terests of the British people? At
all events, there appears to be
in this country an idea that the
world owes us a good time eco-
nomically. The Germans at
least know that prosperity, can
be had only by hard work and
not by waiting on it.
“The big tall stacks of Essen
are smoking again: there is a
contract for a new cement fac-
tory in India. Germany is also
establishing economic relations
with Japanese industry. As Mr.
Hughes notes, all this is striking
evidence of the emergence of a
powerful, efficient, competitive
industrial Germany which can
challenge other Western coun-
tries in the markets of the
world.
“This achievement has been
accomplished under an anti-
Socialist Government.”
Johnny Bullarki San
A “Manchester Guardian”
staff correspondent in Tokyo,
contending that the most
accurate yardstick by which to
measure Britain’s prestige in
Japan is not the occasional
wrangling over jurisdictional
matters and drunken servicemen
but the broader manifestations
of public feeling, gives some
instances in support :
“Japanese, in letters to the
Press, compare the manners of
their countrymen with those of
the ‘gentlemanly British’ —to the
disadvantage of the former.
Tokyo newspapers, loud in their
praise of the impeccable be-
havior and sportsmanship of the
Oxford University Rugby team
last year, are equally enthusiastic
about this year’s visit of the
Cambridge University team.
“The influence of Britain’s
example is evident at all levels of
the social scale —from the Im-
perial Palace (where the inevit-
able question when some depar-
ture from Imperial protocol is
debated is ‘Would Buckingham
Palace permit it?’) to the little
people whose only knowledge of
the British was derived from
employment in their offices or
homes in Japan. A grey-haired
hotel-waiter, for instance, re-
cently showed me a well-pre-
served letter recommending him
as a good and honest houseboy
signed by four Royal Navy
officers by whom he had been
employed at Nagasaki in 1905.
“The fact that the Prime
Minister, Mr. Yoshida, and Mr.
Mamoru Shigemitsu, leaders of
the two main conservative
parties in Japan’s Diet, are both
former Ambassadors to the
Court of St. James’s and both
admirers of things British exer-
cises a strong influence on the
nation’s official dealings with
Britain. Mr. Yoshida is often


There is
« no death
“For many yeai’s,” says Dr.
Norman Vincent Peale, “I
have been recording a series
of incidents which bear out
the conviction that life, not
death, is the basic principle
of our universe.”
November Reader’s Digest
brings you an excerpt from
Dr. Peale’s best-seller, “The
Power of Positive Thinking.”
He tells why he profoundly
believes there is no “death,”
that the here and hereafter are
one.
Also in November Reader’s
Digest, “Lindbergh’s Own
Story,” and a wealth of other
stimulating articles condensed
from world’s leading magazines
and books. 1/6—at all news-
agents and bookstalls. Make
sure of your copy today.
ESQ
RECOMMENDED BY
ROLLS-ROYCE
■
Jmr
m
: :;
Always ask for THE GOOD COMPANIONS at
AH
INDEPENDENT
SERVICE.STATION
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES
(Marketers in Australia for Anglo-lranian Oil C®. Ltd.)
LTD.
etei
called ‘the Churchill of Japan,’
and is a thoroughgoing admirer
of Sir Winston and all his works
—though he once assured me
that is not the reason for his
addiction to cigars!
“At the unofficial level,
Japanese schools and colleges go
out of their way to secure
British - born English - language
teachers, and parents prefer
their children to learn ‘English-
English’ to other varieties of
that language. The newly in-
augurated commercial television
service is currently combing
Tokyo for such voices for a
‘half - hour -of - English’ pro -
gramme.
“It is not unusual for Japanese
house-owners to quote a lower
rent to prospective British
tenants than to other foreigners
—or even to decline to rent
properties to non-British appli-
cants —apparently in the happy
belief that all British families
make ‘desirable’ tenants. Not
only is Britain the favorite
destination of Japanese travel-
ling abroad, but Government
servants, trade-union leaders and
the like widely regard first-hand
knowledge of Britain as a badge
of merit.”
Atomic Secrecy
Those (Americans among
them) who are urging that the
U.S. should share its atomic
secrets with its prospective war
allies in the Western defence
set-up harp on one note in par-
ticular —that, come war, none of
these other forces would have
the probably vital weapons, and
that it would take time, at the
conceivable cost of irreparable
disaster, to deliver the weapons
and show how to use them.
Quoting U.S. official views,
“New York Times” writer
Arthur Krock gives a number of
reasons why that line of argu-
ment is considered weak. One
is that most of the weapons
would not be operated from
bases in Europe itself, but from
outside; U.S. forces would
therefore be the right ones to
do the job, “and they are capable
of doing the whole job them-
selves.”
Another quoted reason for not
sharing is the vital requirement
that the weapons should not
fall into enemy hands, which is
also a reason for keeping them
out of Europe altogether. In
support is quoted some interest-
ing unpublicised history;
“In the Battle of the Bulge, in
the Second World War, the Ger-
mans captured an ammunition-
dump in which were more than
50 units of one of the most effec-
tive weapons ever developed in
war —still a secret from the
enemy. Our forces took back
the dump so quickly that, as a
search disclosed, not one of the
weapons had come into the
possession of the Nazis, But
that probably would not happen
twice..,.
“The secret weapon in the
dump was the proximity-fuse,
and the history of this device
alone demonstrates the value of
close and continued secrecy.
The proximity-fuse was de-
veloped by a Navy group in
which Admiral W. H. P. Blandy
and Rear-Admiral Lewis L.
Strauss (now chairman of the
Atomic Energy Commission)
were the leading spirits. After
lengthy consideration the highest
policy determination was that
the secret of the weapon and its
employment were to be reserved
solely to the Navy.
“The weapon overcame the
threat of the Kamikazes, which
for a time some thought might
cause our defeat by Japan by
reason of the fact that just one
airplane, if its mission was sue-
cessful, could destroy a great
t^^ro^i^itv-f^^was * attri-
hiited measure of credit
for winnln^theßatdeof Britain
becaur:.itoyed9sperSn.:
of the Nazi V I’s*
“Toward the end of the war
the proximity-fuse was issued to
the Army in Europe, where, as
described the Nazis almost got
possession of it. Its secret had
been additionally preserved by
replacing the expensive, trans-
parent plastic cap with a plain
black tip common to most shells.
But the fact that the fuse can
now be bought generally is
pointed to as justification of
their attitude by those officials
who were instrumental in hav-
ing it reserved so long as the
Navy’s exclusive secret, and by
those who now oppose sharing
the new atomic weapons with
our [America’s] Allies.”
War "Ifs"
It has been said countless
times —regarding both the World
Wars, and, again, Korea —that
war would not have started at
all if the enemy aggressor had
been told plainly in time what
the full consequences would be.
Right or wrong, this theory is
currently being given a practical
trial —by the West against
Russia, and by the U.S., in par-
ticular, against China. It has
been most conspicuously nailed
to the mast by U.S. Secretary of
State Dulles.
“Big wars,” Dulles has said,
“usually come about by nlistake,
not by design. It is probable
that the Korean war would not
have occurred if the aggressor
had known what the United
States would do. There is the
risk that, as in Korea, Red
China might send its own army
into Indo-China. The Chinese
Communist regime should rea-
lise that such a second aggres-
sion could not occur without
grave consequences, which might
not be confined to Indo-China.
I say this soberly in the interest
of peace and in the hope of pre-
venting another aggressor mis-
calculation.”
That has been translated as a
flat declaration that “the U.S.
will go to war with Communist
China if the Communist Chinese
intervene in the Korean manner
in the current fighting in Indo-
China.”
In New York “Herald
Tribune” the writing team of
Joseph and Stewart Alsop have
reported from Washington that
the statement “was only made,
of course, after the most careful
preparatory work.” The Eisen-
hower Administration’s aim,
they added, “is to make it per-
fectly clear to Peking and Mos-
cow that we shall fight—-and
fight, moreover, without artificial
limits —if any more borders are
aggressively crossed. In the
nervous world this stand may not
be popular everywhere. But it is
likely to be healthy in its results.”
“New York Times” military
writer Hanson W. Baldwin inter-
preted the statement as meaning
“war against Communist China
itself—not a war merely against
Communist Chinese fought in
Korea or in Indo-China. It
could mean bombing and block-
ade, and no holds barred. Mr.
Dulles’s warning makes it plain
that henceforth Peiping itself
will suffer the consequences, at
home, of future aggression
abroad.”
It also means that if another
war does de u velo P. the . fir , st
Wld be tbis certain ly
ver y hard-worked theory.
Various Voices
An Austrian worker, offer-
ing his own explanation for the
big Communist vote in France
and Italy ( quoted from ‘‘U.S.
FASTER! FASTER!
Minneapolis (U.S.A.) "Tribune n"
News and World Report”) : “It
is simple. Those people have
never seen the Russians!”
Benjamin F. Fairless, board
chairman of the United States
Steel Corporation : “If I were
a Socialist and wanted to dis-
credit the free-enterprise system
by producing a serious business
slump I think I would start pre-
dicting from the housetops that
hard times were on their way.
If I could shout hard enough and
long enough I think I could
frighten millions of people right
out of the market-place.”
Eisenhower, summing-up on
U.N. : “With all its defects, with
all the failure we can check up
against it, it still represents man’s
best organised hope to substitute
the conference-table for the
battlefield.”
Ex-President Truman : “This
is our [U.S.A.’s] most solemn
obligation. We must keep and
strengthen the Grand Alliance
of free men. And to do that we
must have sympathy and under-
standing for our Triends, even
when they differ with us.”
Deryck Abel, Liberal, on the
British Labor party: “Labor
seeks a new political Moses, and
j s learning that strict egalitarian
doctrine does not encourage
quality in leadership.”
q Y leaQersmp '
General Sir Kenneth Craw-
ford. Britain’s Controller of
Munitions (London
Mail” interview): “It is difficult
‘ *
man to be a P ro P het > but 1 can
say this: Though the destructive
powers of new inventions are
tremendous, I have never felt
more certain of Britain’s capacity
for survival. We are forging
ahead in every category of new
weapons—tanks, rockets, planes
and bombs. Thanks largely to
Britain, Western countries, we
believe, have better-quality wea-
pons than Russia. Our standards
are higher in many respects than
in any country in the world.”
Queen Juliana : “It is en-
couraging to see that the young
men and women of our time are,
generally speaking, extremely
realistic in their outlook. They
concentrate on reality; they are
critical; that means they want to
analyse and understand every-
thing, and, finally, they know
how to tackle things.”
General Gruenther, Supreme
Commander of Allied Forces in
Europe : “We could hold a
beachhead if that were our ob-
jective. However, our mission is
to defend Western Europe. We
are not planning to retire. The
question of whether or not we
could hold a beachhead involves
a retreat concept. This corn-
mand was not organised to plan
a withdrawal. We intend to
stay.”
Sir David Maxwell ry/e.
Britain’s Home Secretary: The
real challenge that the people or
thls country must face is how we
are to P a Y our wa Y m 0
harshly competitive world con-
ditions that are now arising after
~e asy
shaI y t succeed if we tackle 20th-
century problems with 19th-cen-
tury cliches like nationalisation,
restriettonism and the all-power-
ful State.”
Adlat Stevenson: We must
begin to talk to the world in
terms of what we are for, rather
than what we are against,
Merely being against Commun-
ism is old stuff in Europe, and
will win few hearts in Asia.
They need convincing that we
are more interested in settle-
ments by negotiation, in reduc-
ing tensions, and in stability,
than in force and military
action.”
Dr, Garbett, Archbishop of
York: ‘The clergy and those
who have had special training
for this work must do all they
can by advice and sympathy to
prevent the final breakdown of a
marriage. Wise advice may often
prevent hasty but irrevocable
action. Sometimes one or the
other must be urged to forgive
even in the case of adultery,
which should never be treated as
the one unforgivable sin. More
marriages break down through
a multiplicity of small acts of
discourtesy, selfishness and im-
patience than through what are
regarded as the greater sins,
which are usually the climax of
a gradual drifting-apart.”


mmA^mA
rwAmrwAmrwA mrwA ==*ma
TRANS WORLD AIRLINES
is the ONLY airline to offer you
Super Constellations
Or
to carry you in luxury from San
Francisco or Los Angeles to New York
en route to
London, Paris, Frank-
furt, Zurich, Geneva,
Tel Aviv, Shannon,
Lisbon. Madrid,
Algiers, Tunis, Milan,
Rome, Athens, Cairo,
Basra, Dhahran,
Bombay.
SUPER CONSTELLATION FEATURES:
9 Most spacious planes in
commercial operation-
-744 square feet of floor
space.
• Seats 64 passengers,
plus 8 sleeping berths.
9 Luxury lounge for pas-
sengers’ comfort.
9 Most advanced 4-engine
equipment gives greater
Literature supplied on appli-
cation to any approved travel
agent, or TWA, Kembla Build-
ing, 58 Margaret St., Sydney.
BX 1219.
range-i—3,250 miles
cruising at 20,000 feet.
• Pressurised and air-
conditioned cabins give
low altitude comfort.
Outstanding cuisine.
Across I
zrWA
ASK FOR TWA SUPER CONSTELLATION SERVICE ACROSS AMERICA
TWA B TWA
mrwAmtwA
85
mvMii
’ tfAU 0 HIM m VMI i VMISB i
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
oSuixivan
t-v mvn .t,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd. '■
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“pROTECTa” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUI”, BRISBANE
it, and no one had ever heard of
Yanco.
Still, I tried to get a job on
The Bulletin. My pugilistic
ambitions were dormant, and I
had always had literary ones. I
presented myself at 252 George-
street and, eventually, a busy-
looking man with an eyeshade,
proofs in his hand, was pointed
out to me. I accosted him. He
was amiable, but in a hurry. He
asked what I had written and I
told him I had been associate-
editor of the school magazine,
He looked a little startled, so I
pressed home my advantage by
thrusting a sheaf of references
into his free hand He tucked
the proofs under his arm and
thumbed through them with a
distracted air Yes yes, he said.
very good, a letter from a clergy-
man—just so. Excellent refer-
ences for many jobs, no doubt,
but the thing was—could I
write? As a matter of fact,
some of the best journalists had
been—well, not very moral at
a 11.,.
Since a literary career was
closed to me, I began to
patronise a suburban gym-
nasium, working, in the mean-
time, on a dairyfarm near
Parramatta. Night after night,
my chores finished, I pushed a
bike more miles than I care to
think about, for the amazing
purpose of spending more energy
under supervision.
The gymnasium was, well, like
a suburban gymnasium. Color-
ful, as they all are, with that
atmosphere of dedicated mascu-
linity, the reek of sweat and
liniment, the tight - lipped
fighters and the talkative hand-
lers, the ritual of workout,
shower, rub-down, the special
and professional optimism. They
paid, perhaps, too much atten-
tion to hard-hitting, too little to
defence; they rushed their boys
too much, maybe. But they
meant well.
They began to change my
style, which was a mistake, and
they thought I had a good right
hand, which was another. True,
I could thump the heavy bag
impressively, but when it came
to the real thing my right hand
—except for defence—was useful
only once in a blue moon. There
was a reason, which Mr, Bible
had explained. A young fighter,
if brought along cautiously.
must first gain confidence in
each of his weapons, as it were.
The use of them must become
automatic. The ability to co-
ordinate them, to think, comes
later, if at all.
Then, as a great favor, they
let me have a spar with their No.
1 boy. He wasn’t at all a bad
bloke, a rocky-faced, civil young
man with the stable character-
istics—a mighty wallop and a
weak guard. He wore headgear
—I didn’t—and as he came
shuffling towards me I could see
all his weaknesses as a boxer
very plainly. Little good it did
me. He belted me around the
ring with wooden ferocity every
round. He really hurt me, and
I recetved my first valuable
lesson on the difference between
an amateur and a professional.
That night, pushing my bike
through the wind and ram—
back to the cows—l wondered
if it was worth while,
Within a few weeks I had
joined the Police Cadets. In
the mornings we trained at
Bourke-street physical jerks
under an ex-naval instructor-
received mysterious instruction
concerning Indictable Offences,
and, for our wages, we did
various clerical jobs at police-
stations. It was, on the whole, a
dull life, but there was plenty
of sport if you were that way
inclined.
After an unfortunate begin-
ning at Redfern, where I
annoyed the Deputy-Commis-
sioner, I went to Daceyville,
which was a nice homely place,
I joined the Police Athletic
Club, and, overnight, from
being a sort of cabinboy, be-
came a person who was driven
to the Sports Ground in a P.D.
car. Not from any local zeal,
but simply because Commis-
sioner Mackay had become con-
cerned about physical slackness
in the force at large. In the
intensive stirring-up that fol-
lowed I, as the station repre-
sentative of a sports-loving con-
stabulary, received unheard-of
privileges.
Perhaps it was a shameful
hope of riding in graceful ease
on the sports-wagon, perhaps it
was merely the idiotic pattern 1
had followed since entering my
first boxing tournament, per-
haps I was just young and
5i11y..,. Anyway, I put my name
down for the Police Boxing
Championships, light-heavy-
weight division.
Immediately I wished I hadn’t,
There was, I gathered, a light-
heavyweight champion already,
a terrible fellow called Kil-
martin. With graceful humor,
out at Daceyville, they changed
his name. They called him Kil-
Fountain.
I began to train at Jack Dun-
leavy’s. I ran round Centen-
nial Park. I went off my tucker.
The great night came, as it
had before, and there I was
shivering in the dressing-room at
Leichhardt Stadium. I was to
meet the terrible Kilmartin in
the final. He must have been
terrible. There weren’t many
entries.
Then, as once before, re-
prieve. Kilmartin was ill. 1
was, I suppose, the new light-
heavyweight champion of the
N.S.W. Police Force. At least,
an inspector told me I was.
Shortly after that I resigned. My
total service was a matter of
months.
My next job was as a teacher
—a sort of house-master —the
understanding being that I
would take a degree eventually.
Eventually was about right.
From that job I joined the
A.I.F.
In the meantime my interest
in boxing had slackened some-
what, So had Gick’s. As a
medical student, he discovered
some interesting things about
the human brain, and decided his
could be better employed than
as the core of a punching-ball.
Only once, so far as I know, did
he give any indication of his
latent talents. A fresher at Wes-
ley, he was reclining on the
lawn when a senior, with an
effervescence of those sophisti-
cated high-spirits for which
undergraduates are famous,
hurled a handful of gravel on
his bare back. Gick jumped up
and destroyed him. They thought
it wasn’t quite the thing to do,
but Gick outlived the incident,
to become a great man at Wesley
as he had been a great man at
Yanco.
In camp jmy interest in boxing
was about zero. The world
seemed full of more exciting
activities. Dave Palmer was a
sergeant, and, at that time, he
was training a few boys in a hut
at the end of our lines. I had
never been down to see them,
but I knew all about it. One
day Dave walked through our
hut, and, for no reason that I
can account for, except that
pathetic desire to be funny that
afflicts most human males under
the age of 21,1 hailed him. He
stopped.
“How are the boys shaping,
Dave?” I said.
“Not badly.”
“I might come down some
night,” I said. “You know, give
you a few tips.”
Not a muscle of Dave’s face
moved,
“All right,” he said, and
walked away.
The joke seemed to have
fallen a bit flat. Oh, we 11...
I forgot all about it.
Then, one night, at a loose-
end, I went down there. Dave
was instructing, but he saw me
as soon as I opened the door.
“Ah, there you are,” he said
genially. He motioned with his
gloved hand. “Come and put
them on.”
“Who, me ?”
“Yes.”
This time the wave was more
imperative, less genial. The
suggestion was taken up, became
a cry. It dawned on me that
my humor was back-firing. Well,
it was a pretty poor brand of
humor, at that.
Short of running for it, there
was no way out. I put the gloves
on with Dave and Dave belted
me round the ring heartily.
Later he told me that it was a
distressing experience. Every
time he sank his fist, up to the
elbow, as it were, in my flabby
belly, I belched. He was be-
coming quite nauseated to-
wards the end, he said. So
was I.
Dave, you may remember,
was at his prime when he beat
Jack Carroll. He was well past
his prime when he beat me. And
considerably lighter than I was.
But I’m convinced that the
easiest thing in the world to get
is a reputation. If you are care-
ful it can get you out of all
sorts of trouble. I acquired a
reputation after what was, by
any standards, a disgraceful
showing against Dave. Next
morning on parade Dave had a
discolored face. I—owing to the
loving attention Dave gave my
middle—was unmarked. It be-
gan from there.
Once, in Bombay, that affair
saved me from the father of a
hiding. Things looked very bad
indeed until Tacky Kelly, from
Wagga, took a couple of excited
gentlemen aside and confided to
them that just before leaving
Australia I had fought a spirited
15 rounds with Ambrose Palmej.
Ambrose, of course, is Dave’s
brother.
But my proudest memory is
after I came back to Australia,
There was a charity fete of
some kind at Gundagai, and I
was enjoying the sun and
feminine company when Woody
Fields, who was running a box-
ing-tent (for the charity con-
cerned), beckoned me over,
“How are you off for togs?”
he asked mysteriously,
“Togs?” I echoed,
“I can get you a pair of
shorts”
Finally I sorted it out. A
kind friend, Bob Nicholls, had
arranged for me to fight some
white-hope. I said no, politely
but firmly. I felt I had grown
up.
Bob Nicholls, by the way,
went to Yanco.
“Will ye listen now,” said Pat-
rick O’Brien, forgetting, in his
pleasure, to grumble at the
pulleys which hoisted his right
leg to an angle of 45 deg. with
the bed, “but will ye listen.”
“ ’Struth,” chuckled Bluey
Ross, “he’s calling her for every-
thing.”
“And don’t you forget our
common Viking heritage in the
language, my boy. Can ye recog-
nise any?”
“Geeze. I did think”
“So it is. Ye keep ye’r lugs
skinned for the single syllables.”
The Swede had been a patient
for five days when Sister con-
ducted one of her notorious in-
quisitions. Someone had mis-
checked the linen. Then every-
one should suffer. Every nurse
could spend an afternoon going
through the linen-cupboard, the
cutlery-drawers, the instrument-
cabinet. They could make an
inventory of everything in the
ward, clean every storage-place
and article thoroughly, and do
their other work later, when the
lists were complete. Nurse Far-
bum, being the junior and hav-
ing no access to any equipment,
could not, even The Witch had to
admit, be remotely concerned
with this task. But she need not
congratulate herself.
“Nuhrrse. I shall do the ward
drug-cupboard and stationery
myself. Yuh will not leave the
ward. Yuh will attend to the
patients’ needs. And keep the
beds straight.”
The ward drugs were kept in
a locked cupboard near Sister’s
desk. She sat making her list
and shouting occasional orders
to Nurse Farburn. The phone
rang and Sister answered it.
“Nuhrrse. Nuhrrse. Dr.
Hanton wishes to see the Swede’s
X-ray report. He is in Matron’s
office. I shall have to send yuh.
But hurry. I do not intend ask-
ing one of the other nuhrrses to
leave her jahb to attend to the
ward.”
TOUT during Nurse Farburn’s
-■-* absence the Swede became
restless. Sister came down the
ward.
“He wants a bed-pan, Sister,”
translated O’Brien in the next
bed. Sister Stolt, inartyr to
her principles, or to prove that
she was not above dealing with
menial situations, set off to the
pan-room and returned to the
Swede’s bed, her burden covered
neatly wjth a calico towel.
He looked at her cunningly
while she loosened a tape of his
jacket. In some way he had
managed to struggle out of the
straitjacket and his arms were
already free. When she stooped
across his bed he grasped the
back of her neck with his hairy
left hand and with his plaster-
coated right hand he pushed
hard into her windpipe. It all
happened very quickly.
There was not a walking
patient in the ward; and the
electric-bell system registered
only at Sister’s unoccupied desk.
She twisted and turned but could
not get free —the metal pan clat-
tered to the floor; her veil
dragged back over the smooth
hair. Then Nurse Farbum re-
turned.
O’Brien saw her, standing at
the ward entrance, but every
other man was watching the
Swede and the struggling woman.
O’Brien saw that Nurse Farburn
simply stood, very tall and
stately, her lips moving, per-
haps in prayer. She did nothing.
In Matron’s office she had been
asked to wait in order to take a
message back to Sister Stolt,
and while she waited she had
heard Dr. Hanton explaining to
a representative of the shipping
company that the Swede, fol-
lowing a routine examination,
had been found to have an in-
operable growth in his lungs.
“It will kill him soon. I’d give
him two months,” Dr. Hanton
said.
Possessing this knowledge she
stood motionless at the doorway
until The Witch sank to the
floor. Then she hastened to-
wards Sister Stolt.
“I must go for help,” she cried.
O’Brien caught her eye as she
walked past his bed:
“Here,” he whispered. “Listen.
My religion still believes in evil
spirits, God bless ye.”


Continuing the Holden policy of constant improvement
GMH has pleasure in announcing
Holden’s biggest news
since 1948
THREE DIFFERENT SEDAN MODELS * NEW STYLING * COMFORT
NEW ENGINE FEATURES * NEW LOW PRICES
Holden’s greatest list of improvements yet!
HOLDEN SPECIAL SEDAN
With new radiator grille, new hub caps and new
tail lamp assembly, hood ornament, gleaming
stainless steel body mouldings, rear fender orna-
ments, beautiful new instrument panel, arm rests,
assist straps, leather seats and squabs, smart
new exterior colours. 5.90 x 15 tyres.
&
HOLDEN BUSINESS SEDAN
Specially designed for business and country users
operating under arduous conditions. Your Hol-
den Dealer will give you details of the 12 carefully
planned additional features of this model. New
styling highlights include the radiator grille, hub
caps, tail lamp assembly.
.„ • ai jrr:
HOLDEN STANDARD SEDAN)
This model is the lowest-priced six cylinder, six
passenger car you can buy. A real money-saver
in first cost and in running costs. Styling improve-
ments include new radiator grille, new interior
appointments, new hub caps, new tail lamp
assembly.
X 528
Today marks the climax to nearly five years of progressive Holden
improvement. General Motors-Holden’s presents three beautiful
Holden Sedans the de luxe Special, the Business Sedan and the
economy model, Holden Standard. Now there’s a Holden Sedan
to suit every family, every purpose, every taste.
Styling improvements to all models include the new radiator grille,
new interior appointments, a new streamlined tail lamp assembly
and new hub caps. Additional de luxe styling refinements are intro-
duced on the Special.
Holden’s 21 h.p. square engine has four new features new quieter,
longer-life pistons, new torsional type piston compression rings, new
larger diameter cooling fan and new flexible radiator mounting.
Comfort is increased with softer seating. The positioning of the
front seat is slightly altered, giving better vision and greater driving
ease. Front seat adjustment is improved by a new ball-bearing
type seat adjuster.
Finer, more beautiful cars at substantially reduced prices
ft is with special pleasure that General Motors-Holden’s Ltd. announces a substantial
reduction in Holden prices. This reduction is made possible by increased manu-
facturing efficiency, resulting from the £11,000,000 plant expansion programme
now nearing completion. At the new low prices Holden offers even more
outstanding value.
Holden is the only car that offers you the ideal combination of six passenger room-
iness, 6 cylinder performance and 30 m.p.g. economy as reported by owners. Now
you get important improvements at new low prices, and the choice of a model to
suit your purse and purpose. Holden is the best buy for your money giving
you more of everything you want.
You must see the improved Holden sedans to realise the full beauty of the new
styling. They are now on view at the showrooms of your local Holden Dealer.
• You can arrange convenient hire
purchase terms through G.M.A.C.
• There are two Air Chief Car
Radios for Holden.
General Motors’ own finance
company.
igf
HOLDEN
Australia's Own Car
){• Registered Trade Mark.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wknts
To buy copies of “Desiderata,”
“Salt,” “Mearijin” (vol. 1), “South-
erly” (to 1947), The Lone Hand,
“The Spinner,” “Current Affairs
Bulletin” (1942-46).—5619.
Wanted items dealing with the
story of Fisher’s Ghost. —5620.
To buy copy of a colored “Map
of Fairyland” published by Sidgwick
and Jackson, Ltd. (London) and
designed by Bernard Sleigh.—s62l.
To buy Earle Cox’s Out of the
Silence (Vidler edition), also his
Fools’ Harvest. —5622.
To buy Lost Civilisation by Val
He510p.—5623.
To buy Artabazanus by William M.
Ferrar. —5624.
Information as to the identity of
H. Kirmess, author of “The Austra-
lian Crisis” which appeared in The
Lone Hand (Nov., 1908, to Aug.,
1909).—5625.
To buy copy of the original edi-
tion of Our New Selection by Steele
Rudd—s 626.
Words of poem “Rum and Water”
by T. E. Spencer.—s 627.
Copy of the book The Ear of
Dionysius by Gerald Balfour. —5628.
To buy copy of “Mr. Brown’s
Haircut.” —5617.
To buy The Way backs, in Town
and at Home, by Henry Fletcher. —
5618.
Information Sought
What present-day Christian sect
believes that this world is a vale of
strife and sorrow, deliberately de-
signed to fit us for the next world?
As far as we can learn, there is
none. Certainly none of the major
branches of the Christian Church
holds such a tenet. The early
Christians did think more or less on
those lines; but they did not regard
the world as evil so much as merely
temporary and of small worth.
(Paul, in his Epistles to the Thessa-
lonians, condemned those who had
given up their vocations, and he
fought for the right of the baptised
to marry, to own property, to en-
gage in commerce, etc. He insisted
that the permanent institutions of
society be acknowledged.) The early
Christians, too, had the ascetic ideal,
undertook vigils, fasting, subjected
the body to pain and discomfort.
Abstention, the ascetic life, is the
note of every religious reformer—
Moses, Paul, Buddha, St. Francis,
Mohammed, etc. But this harsh view
has been tempered through the ages.
Christianity upholds virtue and in-
dustry in this world as necessary for
future salvation. But this is far
different from a belief that our souls
are to be saved only through a life
of grief and sorrow, and that this
world is designed solely to that end.
♦ ♦ * *
Which countries possess the largest
numbers of cattle ?
Everyman’s Encyclopedia (1949-50)
gives the following cattle estimates,
with no year specified: India (in-
cluding Pakistan), 161 million (plus
45 million buffaloes); U.S.A., 66 mil-
lion; Russia, 51 million; Brazil, 40-j
million; Argentina and Uruguay
(considered as one), 40£ million;
China, 22 million (plus 12 million
buffaloes); Germany, 20| million;
France, 16 million; Australia, 14
million; Africa, 11 million ; Poland,
10| million; Britain, 8£ million;
Canada, 8 million; Eire, 4 million.
The chief cattle-raising countries are
actually the Argentine, U.S.A., Aus-
tralia and Canada, each of which
has a large export trade in meat.
* * * *
Some information on Richard
Brinsley Sheridan ?
Sheridan was considered the great-
est British comic dramatist of his
time. Born in Dublin in 1751, he
was educated at Harrow. He soon
showed considerable skill at dramatic
composition, and at Co vent Garden
in 1775 his first comedy, “The
Rivals,” was produced. After this
performance David Garrick, the
actor and dramatist, opened up
negotiations with Sheridan which
resulted in the latter’s becoming pro-
prietor of Drury Lane. Sheridan’s
“The Duenna,” also produced in
1775. ran for about seven months.
In 1777 he presented, as manager of
Drury Lane, Vanbrugh’s “Relapse.”
This was followed by his own
“School for Scandal,” which proved
the greatest of his comedies. In
1779 he wrote and produced “The
Critic.” After that he concentrated
on the administration of Drury Lane,
and was also elected to Parliament,
where he was renowned for his
masterly orations. He wrote no more
plays until 1789, when he produced
“Pizarro,” his only dramatic play.
He died July 7, 1816, and was buried
in Westminster Abbey.
♦ * * *
( I) How is ocean depth measured?
( 2 ) Is the ocean floor fairly level ?
(1) By the sonic-sounder, which
measures the depth by timing a
sound-vibration sent from the ship
to the ocean floor and reflected back
to the ship. Some sonic-sounders
automatically record depth at inter-
vals as the ship steams along. (2)
No. The ocean floor in most parts
i s not level. There are submerged
mountain-ranges in the Indian
Ocean; in the Pacific there are many
submerged “islands”; and in many
p | aces deep submarine canyons have
been sounded .
* * * *
What are the facts concerning the
famous Tennis-court Oath of the
French Revolution ?
The States-General, elected in
April, 1789 (the first time it had been
convened since 1614), consisted of
three Houses, or Estates—nobles,
clergy and commons. They could not
agree, and on June 17, on the motion
of the Abbe Sieves, the commons,
w j tb suppor t c f some of the clergy,
declared themselves, since they
claimed to represent 96 per cent, of
tbe nation, the National Assembly
0 f France. They declared that they
WO uld proceed with reforms, and
that the existing taxes would cease
to be collected in the event of Royal
dissolution of the assembly. This
amounted to defiance of the king
and the other estates, and the king
ordered the assembly hall to be
closed. The assembly, consequently,
on June 20, met in the Royal tennis-
court and, with one dissentient, took
an oat 2j never separate until they
bac j given France a Constitution.
Q ne 0 £ a was produced within
tbe next coup i e G f mo nths—the fall
tbe rj ast jn e ("July 14) intervening.
v J
p • r A nswers
oner nnswc s
D.L.: The Coronation medal'may
be worn with Service ribbons on
Anzac Day and comes last in order
of precedence A.M.C.: In theory
the chlorination of the waste waters
before they enter the covered place
should stabilise the sewage sufficiently
to prevent an odor, but in actual
practice this is not the case because
constant attention is needed to keep
the chlorine solution fresh and to
adjust the chlorine needs to the vary-
ing flow and composition. How-
ever, the use of a cheap deodorant
such as a preparation of pine-oil or
like substance is recommended
F.H.McN.: Spits and bars at harbor-
and river-mouths are formed by the
depositing of sediment by shore-
currents. Spits are often formed be-
tween the mainland and an island
just off the mainland; if the island
thus becomes joined to the main-
land the connecting bar or reef is
known as a tombolo J.R.: The
Cavalier Poets, so-called, were a
group of poets associated with the
Court of Charles I. They included
Robert Herrick, Sir John Suckling,
Richard Lovelace and Thomas Carew.
W.L.: The Tuaregs are nomads
of the central and western Sahara,
They have preserved their ancient
Hamitic speech in great purity, also
their alphabet. Their religion is Mos-
lem. They are tall, of regular
features and sometimes light-haired,
The men wear a cloth wrapped about
the face; the women go unveiled,
R.J.W.: Write the British Pub-
lishers Guild Ltd., 182 High Hoi-
born, London, England... .R.J.D.:
See Bibliography of Queensland
Verse by J. H. Hornibrook, published
by the Library Board of Queensland,
Public Library, Brisbane H.K.L.:
The Tarnished Gateway by Bertha A.
Johnstone was published by the
National Press, 34 Lonsdale-street,
Melbourne. Mrs. Johnstone’s address
is 348 Burwood-road, Hawthorn
(Vic.) W.E.L.C.: The Abney
Level appears to have been invented
by Sir William de Wiveleshe Abney,
who was an English chemist. He
held high appointments with the
Board of Education and was presi-
dent of the Royal Astronomical
Society and the Physical Society. He
was born in 1843 and he died in
1920 C.H.: St. Paul’s suffered
several air-attacks during the Battle
of Britain. In the early morning of
Oct. 10, 1940, it received a direct
hit. A bomb penetrated the outer
roof of the choir but hit one of the
massive brick transverse arches and
exploded between vault 'and roof,
After the explosion heaps of debris
crashed into the choir below, destroy-
ing the high altar and damaging the
marble reredos. On Dec. 24 the
cathedral was slightly damaged, and
on May 10, 1941, the chancel was
wrecked.. . .M.A.W.-D.: Information
not readily available and, anyway, it
is considered inadvisable to give it.
K.J.N.: Hippolyte Taine (1828-
1893) was a famous French literary
critic and historian. He wrote a
history of English literature, a his-
tory of French 19th-century philoso-
phers and a monumental work titled
The Origins of Contemporary France.
D.E.: Write Eagle Star Insur-
ance Co., Ltd., M.L.C. Building,
42-46 Martin-place, Sydney.


m-
'jSSi?
Streamlined
Beauty (or YOUR KITCHEN
In old homes or new, enjoy the advantages of a
Wunderlich "Wunderbrile" Stainless Steel Sink now.
Available 4'. 4'6", 5' and 6’ long, the latter also
with a double bowl.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, Phone MX 2411,
or write to Wunderlich Limited, Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for illustrated leaflet and prices.
B
feKUMM
COMBINATION SINK & DRAINER
Best
Mineral
Supplement
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
os
cm.
STt» ,v ’
I*-““ '
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particular! gladly applied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE; SCO tan ISM.
SYDNEY • S.P O 80. <O5B, MELBOURNE • G.P O.
80. 71 IF. ADELAIDE • G.P.O. So. 7SBK. BRISBANE
• S.P O 80. 588. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
GET IN EARLY
"The Bulletin" no sooner
fills the special pen in which
it keeps its new drop of Wool
Type Cards than it empties
and has to be filled again. So
popular has this invaluable
guide become to classers,
sheep-owners, wool students,
and others associated with
wool, that the demand keeps
on threatening the supply.
Send for yours now if you
wish to avoid waiting. All
that is needed is your name
and address and a postal-note
for 7s. fid.
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
7611)8.
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers’
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
dfg
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
guesthouse,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
it
hyceia dissolvenator
Gives you the advantages of sewerage «
matter where your home may oe.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
df
NO FLIES
NO
emptying
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can inalal it!
The treated sterile sewerage
absorbed into tii© soil*
HY6EIA SANITARY CD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet. __
> ■—- DISTRIBUTORS s
N -(-/s wsft
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA; Hygeia
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Ooiuns ou,
Melbourne. . n ! g .
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygda
solvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Ru
St.. Adelaide. p Mc-
WESTERN AUSTRALIA; R. P- “
Inerney & Co.. Ltd.. 441 Murray
TASMANIA:' Hygeia _
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby S Co.,
119 Collins St.. Hobart, also Laun
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services. ,
Chambers. Lome .Street,
SINGAPORE: British and Easter
Ltd., Raffles Place.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sheep in Russia
“R.N.”: According to Dal-
getys the demand for wool from
Russian countries stems from
increased production of rayon
and acrylic fibres, which calls
for enormously-increased sup-
plies of wool for blending.
Russia has plans for doubling
her domestic production of raw
wool, and doubtless would like
to secure a shipload of Aus-
tralian Merino stud rams. At
present 109.9 million sheep are
running in Russia, but the wool-
yields are declining alarmingly.
Geneticists are developing
stud - breeding establishments,
with emphasis on artificial in-
semination for the mass-breeding
of better sires. Several thousand
rams were reported going into
north-west China, where, it is
believed, conditions are most
favorable for large-scale heavy-
cutting-wool production. It is
claimed that they have evolved
there some of the heaviest wool-
cutters in the world.
The Soviet Radio recently
announced the target for sheep
numbers for 1954 at 144.4 mil-
lion, and 159.5 million by 1955.
Russia has become desperately
wool-conscious, and is preparing
to challenge U.S.A. for the posi-
tion of the world’s biggest wool-
user.
Broom-millet
“C.A.A.”; Broom-millet does
well in irrigation areas where
grey clay or red sandy loam
soils are available. Main thing
is to give the soil a thorough
preparation and to avoid salty
ground.
Ploughing 3in. to 4in. deep,
followed by several workings of
the land during the weeks be-
“Can I interest you in our special preventive service for
white-ants and borers?”
fore sowing, will ensure a fine,
weed-free tilth.
November is a good month
for sowing (in Victoria, at least),
as the crop will then reach
maturity during February or
March, when the weather is still
fine.
If manpower is a problem.
stagger sowings at fortnightly
intervals, so that the first-sown
crop can be cut, dried and
carted before the second one is
mature.
Sow seed with 21 in. between
rows at a depth of
Thoroughly mix the seed on a
flat surface before sowing ; not
in the drill-box.
Sown dry, millet-seed will
need four to five irrigations,
representing 15in. to 24in. of
water. Cut when seed is ripen-
ing to ensure best-quality broom.
After cutting, the residue of
stalks may be used for silage or
grazing.
Tomato Culture
“Sarina”: When tomato-
plants are well established con-
stant shallow cultivation does
more harm than good, at least
in north Queensland. Better to
provide a mulch of dried leaves
or grasses around their roots and
leave alone.
Horse-manure is even better,
but must be dry, since the heat
of unfermented fresh stuff
against its stem will kill the
strongest plant.
Tomato-mite is often respons-
ible for tomato losses blamed
on to wilt, largely because the
mite is active in hot, damp
weather, and the infested toma-
toes die off, showing wilt symp-
toms. There is no real cure for
the wilts, but a spray of lime-
sulphur will settle the mite. It
should be used at frequent inter-
vals throughout the growing
season, especially when the
plants are fruiting.
Foxes in the Cane
“E.M.U.”: Foxes have be-
come a major pest to cane-
growers in most parts of the
Bundaberg and Gin Gin dis-
tricts (Q.). The damage has
been greater in some varieties
than in others, showing that
foxes have a discriminating, as
well as a sweet, tooth. The
variety Q5O has suffered so
badly that farmers may be
forced to discontinue plantings
of this popular cane.
Recently the Bundaberg Dis-
trict Canegrowers’ Executive
sought information from the
C5.1.R.0. on how to deal effec-
tively with foxes. The
C.5.1.R.0. could not offer any
beneficial advice at present, but
is making a study of the prob-
lem.
Meanwhile, some farmers
have taken to hunting foxes with
beagles, specially kept for the
purpose.
New Noxious Weed
“Trippie”: Euphorbia mar-
ginata, commonly called snow-
on-the-mountain, recently listed
as a noxious weed in South Aus-
tralia, among its other bad
characteristics secretes a nectar
from which deleterious honey
results.
In the past other plants have
had the same characteristics
imputed to them.
Xenophon, in his history of
the Retreat of the Ten Thousand,
says that the whole Greek Army
was stricken with a temporary
madness or intoxication at Tre-
bizond, near the Black sea,
through eating honey collected
from a blossom which has been
identified as Azalia pontica. In
those days honey was the only
sweetening agent used, and its
consumption was as universal
as sugar is now, hence the wide-
spread effect.
In the late 18th century several
deaths were caused in the neigh-
borhood of Philadelphia by
honey from the American laurel,
Kalmia latifolia, while some
lilies, including one known as
the snakehead, are said to pro-
duce a poisonous nectar, though
there are probably never enough
of such flowers in one place to
affect the honey of a hive.
Pit Silage
“Mr.”: Properly made pit-
silage will last for years without
deterioration, is fire- and vermin-
proof and does not require ex-
pensive covering.
Make the pit a minimum depth
of sft., as it’s hard to obtain
sufficient pressure for satisfac-
tory consolidation in shallower
pits. Cut the trench into slop-
ing ground with the front end
opening to the surface for drain-
age and to simplify emptying
when the stuff is fed out. If the
pit is filled from the sides make
it no greater than 12ft. wide.
Consolidate the material as
filling proceeds by driving the
tractor over it at intervals.
As the material sinks during
filling-heap it well above ground-
level at the finish. Put on an
earth covering by hand from a
few furrows ploughed around
the pit—the scoop is too un-
wieldy to give a layer of uni-
form depth. There will be some
settling for a month or two after
the stuff has been put in, and
some cracks may appear in the
earth cover; fill these at once
to exclude rain and air.
A Yankee Bull
A £2675 Poll Short-
horn bull, with a 7ft. 9in. girth,
has reached Australia from
America for Welltown Stud
(W. Leonard and Sons),
Goondiwindi (Q.). He’s Carona
Masterpiece, rising four-year-
old ; he weighs 19001 b., his eyes
are 11 in, apart, and he has a
face nearly a foot long.
Bought at auction in Chicago,
the bull was bred by Carl M.
Johnson, Carona Farm, De
Kalb, Illinois. G. K. Simpson,
Welltown Stud manager, says
he’s a deep, rich red with a
magnificent “sirey head and
outlook,” and despite his bulk he
is alert and active, with a
“docile temperament.” He’ll be
used in Welltown’s commercial
herd and in the pedigree stud at
Goondiwindi.
Carona Masterpiece is by
Cherry Hill Royal Oak, one of
America’s leading sires, from
Carona Belle 4th, a daughter of
Browndale Fascination. C.
Masterpiece was reserve cham-
pion at the Illinois State Fair
in 1951.
Bluestone and Citrus
“Hortus”: Exanthema, a
disease caused by copper-defici-
ency in the soil, shows up in
citrus-trees by poor growth,
poor fruiting, small weak leaves
at the tree-top, gum deposits, an
abnormal fall of leaves, dead
wood in leaf-bearing twigs, leaf-
curl and gum-stained leaves and
fruit.
The answer is a bluestone
dressing of the soil in the citrus
grove. If it’s light, sandy soil
this is certain to do good, even
if exanthema isn’t present. It
could be present without show-
ing symptoms.
You can’t be too careful
when applying the bluestone.
First, crush any lumps to as
fine a texture as possible. It’s
fatal to have large pieces of
bluestone in the ground. Don’t
allow any of the fine crystals
near the butts of the trees;
them well away from the
£
•
H| ore tban b - P er tree * s
uired u ? t 0 “ year ? J d '
Give older trees lib., and badly-
affected trees or large spread-
ing trees might want 31b.
it’s best not to apply the full
dose at one application. Split
it up into four parts and apply
in November, February, May
and August. Wait for rain be-
fore you broadcast; it’s looking
for trouble to apply during a
dry spell,
Hill Qolo
.
* WorM records
were broken at Golf Hill (Vic.)
when Dalgetys dispersed the


TheNfWMobilco
Direct Drive {no belts)
Grain Auger-Bale Elevator
with Dust-Proof, Life-Time
Sealed Transmission
WHS
4 Wb
‘figßEßl
SI >-
v£v.;
■; vaV^
/:#/
J
/ #v
i
a:
3*dS»
>•, £
I
The new Mobile©
Sealed transmis-
sion. Complete
bevel gear drive,
no belts, no long
shafts, no chains,
no power losses.
Sealed from dust
for life.
PATENTS
PENDING
MOBILCO brings
you a complete
range of Augers
from 20 to 42 feet
in length. Basic 20
ft. Model can be
made into 24, 29
or 33 ft. lengths
by adding quick fit
extension pieces.
Top section of
Mobilco Augers
can be removed
and placed on bot-
tom to make long
snout to fit deep
into Silo for
emptying.
GUARANTEED
2 YEARS
MOBILCO gives you Australia's finest Grain Auger. Just check it point
for point. There's Mobileo SEALED TRANSMISSION. There's the new
Mobilco ENGINE SUSPENSION: engine always vertical irrespective of
Auger Angle. MAXIMUM VERTICAL ELEVATIONS from 14 ft. 9 ins. (20
ft. Model) to 31 ft. (42 ft. Model). POSITIVE ACTION CLUTCH with gentle
take-up motion. RATCHET AND SAFETY CATCH WINCH, sure and safe
grip never slips. 4 STROKE ENGINE, 5 or 7 h.p. according to size of Auger.
Fits your Mobilco Wheat
Auger to lift your Bags
and Bales, too • • •
BAG and BALE ELEVATOR ATTACHMENT fits your Mobilco
Wheat Auger to lift your Bags and Bales, too . . . You don't
only lift wheat with your Mobilco Auger, you can fit this new
Mobilco Attachment to it and
lift bags and bales and handle
many heavy jobs around the
farm. Yes, Mobilco gives you
two machines in one, whith is
a big chance for saving money
on your farm plant.
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE
NOW.
m
MS
I*
m
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE. CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 - TELEGRAMS:
HEAD OFFICE: 410-4T6 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. PHONE; WU IMI W>UHJ
BRANCHES: BRISBANE. ADELAIDE, PERTH - AGENTS: ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
famous Hereford herd of
Mrs. Janet Biddlecombe for
l'2s,ooogns. for 131 lots. Thirty-
nine cows and calves sold for
49,800gn5,, averaging 1277gn5.;
23 mated heifers realised
20,200gn5., average 877gns.; 18
unmated heifers averaged
548gns.; 22 dry cows realised
18,850gn5., averaging 857gns.;
Taffington Jollyman (imp.)
topped the sale of five stud sires
at 6100gns., an Australian
record; and 20 young bulls
realised 13,475gn5. for an aver-
age 673igns. Forty-one females
reached bids of lOOOgns. and
over and six made 2000gns. and
over, while nine bulls reached
1000 and over.
Growing Rare Plants
“Bill C.”: If you like grow-
ing rare or choice plants you’ll
have more luck if you put them
in tubs or boxes. Kerosene-tins
are good, used either upright or
lengthwise, paint-tins, old bat-
tery-cases, old billycans—all are
handy. Best of all are the
tar-pots that road-menders dis-
card along country roads.
Paint-tins are easily cleaned
by filling them with paper and
setting it alight. The fire will
soon burn out the paint. Boxes
should be well scrubbed to get
rid of insect pests.
Provide plenty of drainage-
holes and put a layer of char-
coal or clinker in the bottom
of each pot or box. Have the
pot a few inches off the ground
on a layer of clinker or stones.
A mixture of light loam and
leaf-mould is very good for pot-
ting, but sandy loam alone will
give good results. Main point
is not to use very heavy clay
soils that will pack in the pots.
If the pots are not overfilled
with soil it will be possible to
add a little well-rotted horse- or
cow-manure occasionally.
Asters, balsams, verbena, car-
nations, pansies, petunias and
other plants of similar size will
grow well in boxes about 12in.
deep- The taller dahlias and
similar subjects are better in tar-
pots or other deep vessels;
Y e ,Y. e § rown some splendid
dahlias in tar-pots.
Liliums and allied bulbs do
well in pots, much better than
in the open ground in the
warmer districts. They may be
moved in and out of the sun at
will, preventing bleaching of the
flowers and other heat-damage.
Tall growers, such as Lilium
henryi and L. formosanum,
need deep pots to avoid stunt-
ing.
All pot-plants should be
watered very freely, since they
soon dry up. A flourishing
plant in the morning may be a
withered, dying thing in the
evening, but it is also true that
such a plant will soon revive
when watered. A well-known
but often overlooked method of
watering pot-plants is to keep a
tub of water amongst the pots
with strips of felt or bagging
going from the water to the
pots. To set the moisture mov-
ing the strips should be well
soaked
Death of Cypress
“C.H.”: Cypress may die
from borers, gale-damage or too
much wet. First sign of trouble
is browning-off of the foliage,
When this occurs in spring
search trunk and limbs of tree
for holes or sawdust powderings
made by borers.
If holes are found, insert a
strong wire into each and twist
it round to destroy the borer ;
repeat about three weeks later.
Painting of the whole of the
trunk and the limbs with a solu-
tion of .01 per cent, of agricul-
tural D.D.T. destroys the larvae
and other forms of borer pests.
Death of young cypress in
exposed positions may be caused
by gales tearing the stem away
from the surface roots. Holes,
then forced open at surface-
level, admit air-funnels danger-
ous to the rest of the root-sys-
tem. Tying the tree back to a
firm stake and filling the, hole
with good soil usually saves the
tree.
Inability of cypress to sur-
vive too much moisture is com-
mon to all these species, which
like moist-to-dry soil conditions.
During a recent wet winter in
western N.S.W. districts white
cypress-pine, inured for cen-
turies past to low rainfalls, died
in thousands.
White-ants
“Termite”: No need now to
destroy the trees and shrubs
around the house by using
arsenical compounds for getting
ride of white-ants in the founda-
tions. The new chlordane insec-
ticide, which beat Argentine-
ants in Sydney’s western
suburbs, is also sudden death to
white-ants, while harmless to the
surrounding vegetation,
Many landholders outback
have found it hard or impos-
sible to establish shade- or
shelter-trees because of white-
ant trouble. They can do it
with chlordane.
u- /v ,1
H,nts for the Farm .
“Big Billy”: For spraying
P°„ m f , D ff- oil ‘ spra X, is
m°st effective. In sunny weather
“ se , W- P“ ><»gaL of water,
Jut on a dull day 3gal. of the
£ hemlcal P er 100 B al - of water Is
es ‘
“Tukang Kebun”; French-
beans respond readily to a mulch
of Qjj <j r y fowl-manure. For
small areas shake the manure
out of a tin or drum to make a
band 6in. wide along the line
D f the drill. Apply mulch as
soon as possible after the seed
has been sown,
“Wilco”; Despite the com-
mon belief that “filterpress,” the
dark-grey powder that comes
from sugarmill filters, is not
suitable for plant-growth for at
least 12 months, we have proved
that beans and pumpkins will
thrive in pure filterpress only
about three months old. After
all, the filterpress is merely
earth from the canefarms,
brought in with the cane, but
when it leaves the filters it is rich
in lime. The heat of this must
be counteracted by generous
watering, whereupon crops
growing in ground well laced
.with it produce heavily,
~ ,
Bill : 11 s no trouble and
can save expense to cover the
muzzles of rifles when they’re
standing in the shed. Small red
hornets like to nest in gun-
barrels; their mud-nests are
sometimes solid enough to ob-
struct the bullet and cause
barrel damage when a shot is
fired. The stifled shot can even
cause the rifle-stock to split.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
November should bring general rains over eastern
Australia, with many flood falls, if special conditions come
from a sudden sunspot blaze, as they may easily do. In
southern parts the rains will decline.
December, in northern regions, should give good
follow-on rains, lighter towards the west. In January, there
should be further heavy rains and floods in the south, and
the first four months of 1954 should be good, but from
then to the end of the year prospects are not very promising
on the cyclical chart.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
“War and Peace”
This nation, largely one of unbelievers
and cynics, has faith in one object—■
money. With money enough, most people
believe their salvation is sure. It can
give material comfort, security, leisure
and that most prized thing—freedom from
uncongenial labor.
This is so strong an obsession that
organised labor would accept the help of
any party which offered increased wages.
The masses are apathetic on politics ex-
cept when politicians promise higher
wages and shorter hours.
True democracy would be a society
in which all workers perform labor they
like, which is satisfying, and which makes
them feel important. Look at what war
does to civil workers. They cheerfully
do anything which is publicly declared
important to the “war effort.”
Industrialism and commercialism have
created unwilling masses who sell their
time for the sole consolation and necessity
of wages.
Any form of excitement, including the
biggest—war—offers a break to each
bored member of the city swarm. The
grocer-boy becomes a fighter-pilot, the
commercial gent, becomes an infantry
officer, the sailboat enthusiast gets a naval
commission, the civil servant becomes
a director or controller of something.
War gives them something they’d never
get in 100 years of peace.
The challenge to our shabby civilisation
is to make peaceful years as rewarding
and zestful as war years. For, right down
inside him, the man of the mass will risk
death rather than be condemned to a
life of dull routine. —R. De Clare
(N.S.W.).
Opinion by Statistics
Public-opinion pollsters, market-
research organisations, publicity agents
and economists are among many making
money out of scientific tipping. Reput-
able people apply this new science in a
legitimate way—sometimes useful, some-
times interesting, often both.
But the business is getting too much
high-pressure publicity.
A properly-trained research statistician
can’t be turned out overnight. Not only
has he to know a fair amount of basic
statistical theory, which is a branch of
mathematics, but he’s got to be able to
apply it in such varied fields as chemistry,
biology, physics, engineering, agriculture,
forestry economics, psychology and
education That means he wants a
working knowledge of as many of these
fields as possible.
Statistical inference, which, broadly
speaking, means obtaining information
about large groups by a study of selected
small samples, is being used in many
fields Misuse by men who have no
understanding of the statistical procedures
involved is leading to the publication of
a lot of erroneous and dubious work;
conclusions are frequently drawn from
too incomplete data.
Properly used statistics can be a big
moneysaver in industrial or agricultural
processes.
Ordinary people know little of random-
ised blocks, quality-control and other
terms of the professional statistician.
Their contact with the subject is largely
through opinion-polls which, although of
little obvious practical use, do help to
keep the public informed. Ever since the
Truman election debacle their accuracy
has been a little suspect. There is diffi-
culty in checking the accuracy of their
findings, except in the case of elections,
and then people often feel they could
have guessed the outcome as easily.
It is important that publicity given
statistical methods doesn’t lead people to
think they are a panacea for all produc-
tion and economic problems. Because
that’s one thing the statistician can’t pro-
vide, though he can be quite a helpful
fellow. — Peers (Tas.),
The Huon Campaign
Thanks to “D.McC.” for the concern
he shows for accuracy in my lecture on
the “Huon Campaign” (B. 4/11/’53).
All the same, my statement that Major-
General Wootten was the first Australian
to command American troops in battle
is, strictly, accurate.
In all the instances “D.McC.” mentions
—and with which I was quite familiar —
the American troops were attached bodies
with U.S. command at their own level
serving in a predominantly Australian
enterprise under Australian operational
command.
But at Buna the operation was Ameri-
can, most troops were American and
Major-General Wootten was, in effect,
paid the compliment of being given direct
command of an American formation
under a U.S. battle command.
“D.McC.” is right in saying that
General Berryman was not chief staff-
officer to Major-General Allen from
Bardia onwards, though it must have
been plain to him that this was merely
a slip of the typewriter in condensing,
especially since Allen was not then a
major-general. Allen’s operations were,
however, from an overall staff planning
point of view, Berryman’s as G.S.O. 1,
Division. In the full paper which will be
published in the Royal Historical Society’s
Journal the matter is more adequately
dealt with. —M. H. Ellis (N.S.W.)
Secondary Education
The right of all to secondary-educa-
tion is undeniable, but in attaining the
present pleasant situation really gifted
children in schools of average and under-
average size are making an
unwitting sacrifice in being
limited to the thin and
watered curriculum devised
for the great majority.
What has happened?
Classics have disappeared,
modern languages are
studied by fewer and fewer,
the more difficult parts of
theoretical geometry are left
out or taken as axiomatic,
and English grammar is
practically a thing of the
past, simply because of
pressure from below, i,e.,
increasing enrolment in the
lower classes makes promo-
tion automatic. That leads
to the presence in advanced
classes, or what should be
advanced classes, of children
varying from 10 p.c. below
average intelligence to 40 p.c.
. above and with a range of
scholastic achievement from
5 per cent, to 100 per cent.
Under a conscientious
teacher the duller section of
such a class requires at least
four-fifths of the teacher’s
time, because most head-
masters have a rooted objec-
tion to “long tails.” Hence
the backward lot must some-
how or other be brought up and, without
any such intention on the teacher’s part,
the brighter children are brought down,
System and circumstances in combma-
tion conduce to the neglect of the
brighter children (1) by supplying them
with a diluted intellectual pabulum and
(2) by placing them in a situation where
they can mark-time without any obvious
loss of prestige.
In West Australian schools with a total
enrolment of 750 or over and a five-year
course (after passing out of Class VI),
undesirable situations such as this can
be avoided, because grading is possible
right throughout the school and the dull
and the bright need not be herded to-
gether into the same class. But the lot
of the bright boy or girl who is taking a
full five-year course in a small secondary-
school where, owing to the numbers,
grading is not possible in advanced
classes, calls for serious attention. —
Uidhist (W.A.).
Compulsory Unionism
Compulsory unionism means conscrip-
tion of labor, the end of democratic
unionism, the day of the bigshot union
boss who will be a luxury-living bureau-
crat with social contacts far removed from
the rank-and-file of union members.
It also means that the individual will
have lost all right to call himself a free
“And don't forget the bacon!"
man ; he will be as much a slave of
the State and its officials as under Fascism
or Communism.
Surely Australians will not tolerate
this! The influence of sucli men as
Peter Lalor and William Morris Hughes
cannot have died so suddenly and so
completely.
The men of a country that has produced
splendid fighting forces in two world wars
will not succumb quietly to a bid for
supreme power by cheap. political trick-
sters. — Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
A chief objection to compulsory
unionism is that it makes financial support
of the Labor party compulsory. Several
unions keep strictly to a non-party line
(tbe United Bank Officers’ Association
actively supported the Liberal party at
the 1949 elections because the union feared
bank-nationalisation, not because it sup-
ported the Liberal party).
In country districts shop-assistants
shun their union because of its political
affiliations. Many of them are sons and
daughters of farmers, and many more
realise that their jobs and wages depend
on the prosperity of the district. Given
the opportunity they would rally to a
union which supported the Country
party.
It should be possible to form unions
which could be non-party or anti-Labor
as their members should wish. Organised
labor might be surprised by its member-
ship losses if this were done. At the
same time, compulsory union member-
ship might not be so strenuously opposed.
—Mullum (N.S.W.).
More on Communism
In his book The Communist Technique
in Britain, C. H. Darke, a leading Com-
munist for 18 years, gives a fair idea of
why there are Communist sympathisers
who are reasonably intelligent men and
women (B. 7/10/’53):
This serious step is generally undertaken
by a man who believes that the party has
some wonderful answer to his or the
world’s troubles, some magic formula that
explains everything and will solve every-
thing. This mystical feeling is encouraged
among recruits. They are reverently intro-
duced to Marxist-Leninist theory, so tortu-
ous a philosophy that few Communists
ever follow it beyond a few catchphrases
and a few quotations from Lenin or
Stalin. If they are told that such-and-such
an action is strictly within the logic and
dialect of Marxism-Leninism they will
follow it blindly.
He also explains that a Communist is
taught that his enemy (anyone but a
Communist) is ruthless, merciless and un-
principled and to defeat the enemy a
Communist has to be more ruthless, more
merciless and more unprincipled.
He is told that existing society will
outsmart him if given a chance. Further-
more, there are not English Communists,
Czech Communists, Russian or American
Communists. There are only Com-
munists. —F. Cutler (N.S.W.).
Diesels
This country’s present lack of native
crude oil has always been deplored, par-
ticularly from a defence point of view.
Nevertheless, hopes are now high that
the big strike will comfe within the
reasonably-near future. To that end,
major oil companies are financing
enormous oil-search schemes and are
spending millions in the construction of
refineries. With oil found and locally-
refined, no argument will be tenable
against the use of diesel-electric loco-
motives.
That’s a big hurdle overcome with a
few words, but an outcry over optimistic
anticipation of this nature is surely
worse than “spoiling the ship for a
ha’porth of tar,” or, in other words, what
would have been an ill-advised delay
over an inevitable development,—B. G. K.
(A.C.T.).
Our Pubs
Victorian Ministers are allegedly study-
ing draft legislation for liquor reform.
When both, or all, political parties state
quite openly that the liquor question is
too hot to touch, then the reforms which
are likely to emerge from the new legisla-
tion are not hard to envisage.
The demand for all types of pubs con-
tinues keen, and all connected with the
trade seem to do very well out of it. Why
shouldn’t they? It’s a close preserve,
and the wowsers take good care that no
new licences are issued, even combating
strongly such things as grocers’ licences.
With all real competition removed,
what incentive is there for licensees to
give a better service? The whole thing
boils down to the fact that the Australian
public is satisfied (as with so many other
things) with second-rate or third-rate ser-
vice, and that is precisely what they get.
There are plenty of people well qualified
to rim hotels as they should be run, and
are run in other more civilised countries,
but lack of finance blocks them from
paying the exorbitant sum required to
buy-in to an existing hotel business. Hav-
ing paid such fancy sums for the in-
going there is little, if anything, left to
improve the usually appalling condi-
tions which exist.
The trained hotelkeeper is as rare as
hens’-teeth in Australia. The main quali-
fication seems to be the ability to cope
with the six-o’clock swill, which is why
the publican is so often a bruiser-looking
type who, garbed in a more-or-less clean
cardigan, confines his activities to dish-
ing-out beer and little else.
The Oxford Dictionary defines the
meaning of the word “hotel” as a house
of entertainment for travellers. Next
time the dictionary is revised I will ot
happy to provide a much more fitting
explanation of the word, at any rate as
far as Victoria is concerned.— Ceg (Vic.;


The Last Cavalry Charge
The last real cavalry charge (B.
28/10/’53) was at the Battle of Sedan in
the Franco-Prussian War of 1870. The
deadly Prussian needle-gun abolished
cavalry as a shock-arm, for a single vol-
ey was sufficient to shatter the charge of
General Gallifet’s Chasseurs d’Afrique.
Major-General J. F. C. Fuller describes
it as “the last great cavalry charge of
history.”
War correspondent Archibald Forbes,
who witnessed the charge, said: “Not a
needle-gun gave fire as the splendid
horsemen crashed down the gentle slope
with the velocity of an avalanche....
The horsemen and the footmen might
have seen the color of each other’s
moustaches.... when along the line of the
latter there flashed out a sudden simul-
ianeous streak of fire. Like thunder-claps
sounding over the din of a hurricane
ose the measured crash of a battery of
guns, and then a cloud of white smoke
drifted away towards the Chasseurs.
When it blew away there was visible a
[ line of bright uniforms and grey horses
struggling prostrate among the potato-
drills, or lying still in death. So thorough
a destruction by what may be called a
single volley, probably the oldest soldier
alive never witnessed.”— Clem Lack (Q.).
Who’s Broke?
An Australian record-price for dairy
cows was claimed at a stud-reduction
[sale in the Lismore (N.S.W.) district. A
;otal of £2840 was paid for 27 cows —>
in average of £lO5 each.
The sale (R. Watson Hewett, Eilerdale
Jersey Stud) also set a North Coast
record price for a cow sold at auction.
Eilerdale Victory lunette brought £451
10s. The Australian record price for a
cow is more than £6OO. Ten bulls
brought a total of £651, and three heifers
[made 160gns. each. The sale drew
(400 dairymen from N.S.W., Victoria and
Queensland.
And they say dairyfarmers are going
broke! —I. K. D. (N.S.W.).
Guide Dogs
Our local picture-theatre featured an
interesting documentary on guide-dog
training in the U.S.A. It showed very
plainly the enormous amount, of work
which goes into the preparation of these
dogs. The establishment itself was on a
lavish scale and the dogs evidently
wanted for nothing. Staff qualified to
achieve the intended results did not seem
to be lacking, there was the usual sprink-
ling of station-wagon transport and air-
conditioning, and the whole set-up oozed
an air of affluence.
! This particular centre may be one
devoted to dogs for the well-to-do who
are able to pay for the excellent services
rendered. This was not made clear.
However, the necessary training of a
seeing-eye dog must obviously have to
be as much for the assistance of a pauper
as for a rich person. In either case, the
dog would have a considerable sum spent
on it.
The honorary secretary of the Guide
Dogs for the Blind Association (W.A.)
fi. 16/9/’53) quoted a letter from the
Seeing Eye Inc. (U.S.A.) as saying:
Great care should be given in selecting
blind people to work with dog guides.
They should be physically and mentally
St; they should want to take their place
in a sighted world. Once your graduates
.find employment, compete with the
sighted and are successful, employers
("ill look with more favor upon employ-
ing those handicapped by blindness.
This, too, is a long educational pro-
gramme and takes time.”
This seems to give weight to the idea
that the acquisition of a capable guide-
dog is not a reasonable proposition for
those not blessed with a well-lined
pocket.— Karrimba (A.C.T.).
Repat.
Repat. doctors want to help the sick
soldier to a fuller life, to make him
healthy. Jack is one of their successes.
During his life he has been farmer,
timber-getter, carpenter, rouseabout,
deepsea-diver, guano-digger, planter,
family-man and soldier.
As a soldier he got sick and had to be
repatriated to Australia. Repat. helped
him to get well and he was given a
pension which he used to build himself
a house, and the country wants houses.
He is also helping to populate the coun-
try ;• and the country wants population.
But the moment he demonstrates the
success of their treatment they want to
take away his pension, the thing they
“I hope you blokes aren't quarrelling !”
gave him in order to enable him to do the
things he is doing.
Fred and Alec are war-pensioners of
1914-18. What have they been doing?
Drinking, mostly. They haven’t done a
tap of work since they got on a pension,
lack has produced a large house in four
or five years. In the past 35 years Fred
and Alec must have produced an incred-
ible number of empty hogsheads. No-
body would dream of taking away Fred’s
or Alec’s pension.—C. B. (Vic.).
New States
When agitation for a new State to be
carved out of North Queensland was
revived in 1947, it was established that
the proposed nes State would have
been forced to find over £1 million a
year in additional taxation to meet
loan expenditure on northern develop-
mental projects.
On the basis of 1946-47 figures the
new State would have started its career
with a deficit of £1,100,000, while there
would have been a surplus in the re-
mainder of Queensland of £1,116,000.
These figures would, of course, be much
higher today. Further, this expenditure
did not include the building and main-
tenance of hospitals, schools and other
services, the cost of which would have
to be borne by the new State.
It would also have to take over and
maintain the railway-system and ser-
vices within its area, as well as all the
other manifold activities of a sovereign
State.—O. L. (Q.).
Penalty-rates and Service Pensions
For many years shift-work without
monetary compensation was the accepted
lot of many workers in the State and
Commonwealth Railways and in many
transport services.
Then came the era when union
advocates stressed the loss of social life
which the shiftworker suffered, plus the
disruption to home-life caused by the
necessity of the housewife to prepare extra
meals at irregular hours.
Both Federal and State Arbitration
Courts saw the justice of the shiftworkers’
claims, and so penalty-rates for shift-
workers became part of the accepted
order.
But this same penalty-rate has created
another problem.
Ex-members of the services who have
become shiftworkers in some of the Com-
monwealth Services have now begun to
feel the effects of war-service, and as the
result of continual sick-leave have been
advised by their medical officer to refrain
from shiftwork.
The Commonwealth Medical Officer
has confirmed the report of the private
practitioner and so shiftwork has been
vetoed, also overtime, and the financial
shoe has begun to pinch slightly.
On© officer so affected immediately
applied to the Pensions Tribunal for an
increase in his service pension, basing his
claim on the pecuniary loss as the result
of being debarred from shiftwork.
To date he has not been advised of
the result of his application.
Another officer similarly placed is
highly indignant and talks largely of
getting the Federal member for his
district to take the matter up in the House.
When it was pointed out to both officers
that penalty-rates were granted by the
courts as compensation for loss of social
life, and that they could both now enter
into any social functions, etc., which
appealed to them (in neither case was the
disability of a serious nature), they con-
sidered that their fellow-officers were
looking at the matter ffom an entirely
wrong angle.— Shiftworker (W.A.).
Clare Soldier-settlement
Assertions by “Derf Reltuc” (B.
21 /10/’53) against the Queensland Gov-
ernment’s administration of the Clare
soldier-settlement are inaccurate. The
statement that after bitter experience Jt
was found that tobacco could not be
grown on the same soil two years in
succession is absurd. Each farm is
designed to provide the grower with
approximately 50 acres of suitable
tobacco-land, and since a grower can-
not handle without assistance more than
ten acres of tobacco a year, there is no
need to grow tobacco on the same por-
tion two years in succession.
As for the soil being unsuited for
tobacco-growing, a parcel from Clare
brought top price of 177 d. per pound at
recent sales in Townsville.
Rentals for Clare lands are compar-
able with rentals for other high-value
croplands, e.g., sugar, and the charges
for water per acre-foot are equivalent to
those charged by the First Mildura
Irrigation Trust, the oldest-established
irrigation area in Australia.
The charge that poor accommodation
was provided the first settlers is unjust.
Materials at that time were difficult to
obtain, and some temporary homes and
outbuildings were erected from second-
hand materials. These makeshifts per-
mitted those settlers to become estab-
lished on their farms without delay and
produce tobacco at the earliest oppor-
tunity. The results obtained at tobacco-
sales for that first crop were highly
satisfactory. All subsequent farm build-
ings and temporary homes have been
built with new materials.
During the first year settlers are given
financial assistance by way of a living
allowance, and the War Service Land
Settlement Agreement Act provides that
the proceeds of the holding during the
assistance period shall be paid to an
authority prescribed by the State (in this
instance the Agricultural Bank) and
credited by that authority against future
obligations of the settler, it is untrue
that the taking of the first year’s pro-
ceeds denied the settlers the receipt of
three years’ interest and redemption free.
There is no such provision in the War
Service Land Settlement Acts.
It was never intended that tobacco
should be the only crop grown at Clare.
Tobacco uses only a small portion of
the farm, not more than half of the
settler’s annual time, and the water-right
allotted each farm provides for other
production in addition to tobacco. At
present 210 acres are under maize, 147
under potatoes, 220 under pumpkins, 83
under cotton, and 73 under miscellaneous
crops, or an average of 12 acres per
occupied farm.
The statement that farms capitalised
at £7OOO to £9OOO place the settler in an
impossible economic position from the
outset is equally inaccurate. It has been
demonstrated that, given satisfactory
financial assistance in the early years,
reasonable returns from produce, and
keenness by the settler, the Clare farms
are an economic proposition at that
price.— Clem Lack (Q.),
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No, 251
Across
I—lt is needed to season power with
Yours Truly at the finish. (9)
s—Jolson accompanies a very talent-
less player in the Ophir wood.
(5)
9 Dexter, no doubt, is one who
passes correctly. (5-6)
10— Marshall gets his Japanese
money back, Marie, but the
money is clean-shaven. (3)
Has to surround Oriental dough
for these laughers. (6)
I— Tell one of these Queensland
cricketers. (7)
baby might refer to a small
ball in a Port Hacking beach
resort. (5-5).
10-Bats? (3)
ll This old coin clearly sees the
light of day. (3)
I dare to return a communication
, that can be rooted out. (10)
3-Sick feeling residing in and about
L Singapore? (7)
H-Roy Rene's barber has to deal
, with this Angora wool. (6)
top of this? (3)
makes a guy tar a pea.
„ (8, 3)
42—it puts you under three another
way in there. (5)
33—They are a long way off coins.
(9)
Down
1 — North of the Tweed stream that
is in favor of one who is develop-
ing in flourishing style. (5, 5)
2 Strong and rough with Oriental
carpets. (6)
3 Parent State is disorderly snare.
16)
4 —Cheese is made up. (4)
5 English dynasty makes you of
gold across the Channel. (5)
6 Dirigibles introduce tunes to the
joints. (8)
7 Ape gives a bloke exercise. (8)
8 — Yoga secretly hung up in many
a gallery. (4)
13 — It helps you across the border
State after six. (4)
14 — Sirocco causes bankruptcy when
flautists and trumpeters score
heavily at billiards for protective
tree plantations. (10)
15 — Upset a bird noted for stealing a
roll of notes. (3)
17— Honorable duck leaves a
Hawaiian city for a Berg opera,
and it’s a humdinger. (4)
18— Bullion, and no mistake, for a
component of an electrolyte. (3)
19 — He-donkey he upset for a tribe
of Israel. (8)
20 — Dabchick makes Diana very
spruce and performed with
jumbled paper. (8)
23—Genera] Anzac comedian meeting
a famous Beau. (6)
24—Spoil can swallow a place for
selling and buying in. (6)
26—Typographical feature blazes up.
(.5)
28—Partner in Paraguay tea. (4)
29—A fish gelatine of seaweed. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 250


m
Vi:vs;
i
■ ■
■ m
'y>.
mm
: m
■
/
s
/
0
/ I
#s
' • :
I
•■: :
mm
: «'
V':'
til
- ,:w : •'■
Mm*
i:S :*£ sj:
vm;
\'* .• .... $ •&... f a
:;
.
ilk
mmwi
mm
.
ss 'y<
mhJxt:.
*•*l ■:
■ '£yp,
•*-
■mi
m.
•• ;
~ V- ' ■
lip
: :BB-
j* I fern ' HHSB 3 ‘
. ■ Si
liMii
v , ' «, ■>:
, *
m
■
' fr
i 1
4,.: ; ii -
• • !&C •'■'■•
■ ; ■ : b
;; v k
:.■■ - •■
iM
m
Mpll
' * < 'fHv?
Jj| <t , . * s
mv&i
*
&
r * tB '* • ’ ?
'£ J»
~ v ;•-, S • ■
■&■■ • «&#•0- •; ■ tv ■„ :•■■
'
.
B'' M
H
■■lSBil
is n %
iii»i
mm
Hi
, *' -
• * - i
V
■
mm
, , * + '-^ :
;B;:B
mm
CATERPILLAR
DCOiSTERED TRADE MARK
means
mw
©©ST
CATERPILLAR D/£SH
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
ViM , ■' 1 *' s - | < J.|-;-'
,#« #.*/.■£&? >
dbta£
1
HASTINGS PEERING - QUEENSLAND PTY.
LTD.
102-124 Melbourne St„ South Brisbane
Phone J 1456 C 6 lines)
BRANCH: ERNEST ST., INNISFAIL
Rhone 475
