

FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS
BUY SEPPELTS SOLERO SHERRY
The Bulletin
THE BLONDE IN THE BIKINI
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3808
Wednesday, February 4, 1953
Price 9d,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ORIEL, ONE OF THE OLDEST OF
ENGLAND’S COLLEGES
QRIEL COLLEGE was founded in
1324 by Adam de Erome, who, in his
day, was in turn a rector, an archdeacon
and a Chancellor of Durham. He was
given a licence to establish a college for
a provost and ten scholars. Beginning as
St. Mary’s College it very early changed
its name to Oriel, probably taking its
name from a house called La Oriele
presented to the college by Edward 11,
who refounded the college in 1326.
Adjacent to the college is St; Mary’s Hall,
known as the “skimmery,” which was
united to Oriel in 1902.
Of the medieval college no trace re-
mains, for it was entirely rebuilt in Stuart
days and has since been much extended.
The oldest buildings are the seventeenth-
century embattled gatehouse, the Buttery,
Chapel and the Hall which is reputed to
have the finest hammerbeam roof in
Oxford,
The long annals of the College and
Hall glow with the names of its illustrious
members, which include Walter Raleigh
and Cecil Rhodes. The latter was born
in a Hertfordshire vicarage and at an
early age went out to Natal in search of
health. He and his brother established
their fortunes in the diamond fields of
Kimberley and with this help Rhodes
“sent himself to Oxford.” All through
the eighteen-seventies he divided his
time between Oriel College and Kimber-
ley. Later he bequeathed his great
fortune to Oriel College, amounting to
a hundred thousand pounds, and founded
the Rhodes Scholarship to bring Anglo-
Saxon scholars to Oxford. He believed
that the world could be saved only by
the reunion of the Anglo-Saxon race, and
since then thousands of scholars from all
over the Empire owe their education to
this Oriel man.
Other eminent men who studied at
Oriel were Sir Thomas More; Bishop
Wilberforce, the great church reformer;
Gilbert White, author of “The Natural
History of Selborne,” one of the great
classics of English literature ; the pictur-
esque historian, James Froude; Thomas
Hughes, who wrote “Tom Brown’s
Schooldays,” and Matthew Arnold, school
inspector, poet and scholar of high renown.


Learn
freelance
journalism
at HONE
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO* WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
■ —CUT HERE AND
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(5.8.153)... Age
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. ana au •
tralian books, also in bookish items of general -
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advanc
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. i/o-)
We specialise in Katherine Mansfield items, in Au
tralian and N.Z. poetry, history, ora and ®
of N.Z., South Seas, Antarctica, etc., and pubU*
Collectors’ Monographs (I*/* set <d «)•
The Red Page
A NEW ZEALAND CLASSIC
In New Zealand, as in Australia, the
popular trend in publishing is the redis-
covery of the first days of colonisation,
which become ever more romantic and
significant as the countries crystallise
into nationhood; and New Zealand,
which has already made two delightful
recent contributions with Charlotte
Godley’s Letters and Lady Barker’s
Station Life (both very much after ' the
style of the Henning letters), is lucky to
have such a lively volume to add to the
series as John Logan Campbell’s
Poenamo (Whitcombe and Tombs), an
autobiography first printed in 1881 and
out of print since it was reissued in 1898.
There is one brief direct contact to
awaken Australian interest in the book;
though it is not, alas, very complimentary.
Born in Edinburgh and originally intend-
ing to practise as a doctor, Campbell set
out for Australia in 1839 to make his for-
tune out of sheep ; but found the prices
too high and the convicts (oddly) too
jolly, and hastily set sail again for New
Zealand:
As the mail-cart drew up at the little
inn of Bathurst the clock struck the mid-
night hour, and the new year of 1840 was
ushered in to me to the tune of a discordant
fiddle, danced to by assigned convicts, who
shuffled and scraped vile steps on the
kitchen-floor to an audience whose well-
marked countenances of the true convict
stamp were new to me I really think the
scraping of that fiddle and shuffling of those
heavy feet, and the hoarse laugh which
found its way to my bedroom throughout
the night, created a feeling in me repugnant
to casting my lot in a land where such an
element as I had seen disporting itself down-
stairs existed.
New Zealand has every reason to
remember Campbell historically, for he
very nearly became the owner of Auck-
land ; setting out with some other Scots
and William Webster, “the king of
Waiau,” from Webster’s trading-post on
the Coromandel Peninsula, to buy as
much land as they could around the
Waitemata harbor, where Auckland now
stands, and only missing the purchase of
a limited but still immensely valuable
area because one of the party rashly
accused the young chief Te Hira of steal-
ing the remnants of a pigeon-stew.
Ignorance of the Maori language rather
than a deliberate intention to offend
caused the use of the word which meant
“steal” ; but’Te Hira, who had grabbed
the pot of pigeons, took umbrage, and
the deal was off.
Campbell then bought the island of
Motu Korea in Auckland harbor, after-
wards called Brown’s Island in memory
of his partner ; and, the site of the capital
having been transferred from the Bay of
Islands to the Waitemata, settled-down
to grow pigs for profit. He went into
trade, prospered, founded the Auckland
Savings Bank, became Superintendent of
the Province and gave the city its Corn-
wall Park.
But it is its literary quality, added to
its historical interest, which makes
Poenamo a classic which could be read
with equal pleasure on both sides of the
Tasman. It is full of enchanting glimpses
of Auckland harbor in its primeval tran-
quillity:—
Still farther distant we saw a bold round
high headland, backed by a still higher hill,
and far away before us a long expanse of
glancing waters as far as the eye could
reach The little island we could now see
in all its beauty, with its crater hill, and
through the broken lip we could get a peep
into the crater itself. How silent and peace-
ful were Waitemata’s lovely sloping shores
as we explored them on that now long
long ago morning! As we rowed over her
calm waters the sound of our oars was all
that broke the stillness.
And it is also full of the most fascinat-
ing pictures of the Maoris in the happiest
days of their contacts with the Europeans:
a gay, laughing, “industrious” people
as Campbell saw them (in spite of the
easygoing delays of “taihoa”), singing
Rabelaisian chanties of the latest gossip
as they rowed the Scotsmen in their boats,
with their help and their food
(and their wives), chanting in unison to
the song and war-dance of the chief as
they hauled kauri logs through the forests
for the timber-trade, welcoming the
pakeha everywhere as the bringer of
wonders and the provider of tobacco.
A false-alarm reaching Auckland of a
massacre of the pakeha at Kororareka
makes one highlight in the book —the
final touch of comedy being the discovery
by one family, after all was over, that they
had forgotten to bring one of their
numerous offspring to the place of safety,
leaving the child sleeping peacefully,
through all the tumult of the night.
Another is the extraordinary description
of a tangi when the old chief Kanini had
to sit day after day rubbing noses with
the hordes of mourners who ate all the
tribe’s supply of food, and when a young
chief died because of a dream in which
the dead man summoned him to the spirit-
world.
Though it has the same humor, the
same adventurous delight and the same
vividness as a picture of Maori life,
Poenamo is a much slighter book than
the classic it most resembles, Maning’s
Old New Zealand. In contrast to Man-
ing’s unfailing richness of incident, it
consists really of a very few outstanding
episodes in Campbell’s life; these sur-
rounded by much wordy playfulness.
But if there were not an Old New Zea-
Land Campbell would certainly take
Maning’s place ; and fill it very pleasantly.
Homes of the Squatters
Once when that distinguished New
Zealand poet and connoisseur of words,
Arnold Wall, was visiting Australia he
was intrigued by the name of Collector,
the township near Canberra where
Dunn shot Constable Nelson and
where the hotel keeps bushranging relics
in a glass case, and called at The Bul-
letin to ask if anyone knew how the
name originated. Miss G. Nesta Griffiths’s
Some Southern Homes of New South
Wales (Shepherd Press) answers that ques-
tion, for she says that it is a corruption
of the aboriginal name Kaligda ; though
what Kalidga may mean she does not
add.
Collector was built on land taken from
Winderadeen station at the northern end
of that absentminded sheet of water Lake
George which is sometimes a lake and
sometimes a mirage—at the moment it is
rippling happily over the tops of the
fences and scientists think it may stay
long enough for cod or trout to flourish
as before ; and the story of Windera-
deen, now owned by Dr. George Arm-
strong, will serve as well as any other to
indicate the cavalcade of Australian
history which Miss Griffiths’s book
reflects.
Winderadeen—the aboriginal name
means rushing wind—was first taken-up
by Captain Murray of the Coldstream
Guards, who emigrated to Australia in
1817. His son took up the famous Yarra-
lumla property at Canberra; and his
sons were Sir John Murray, of Papua,
and Sir Gilbert Murray, the scholar who
translated the Greek verse-plays. After
passing through various other hands
Winderadeen was used for a while as a
Salvation Army training-centre for boys,
then was purchased by Dr. Armstrong in
1937: —
The willow-trees along the banks of Col
lector Creek have been replanted and the
suspension-bridge repaired. A summer-
house with a pretty lantern stands among
the terraces above the boathouse, and shrubs
and trees Wend in an enchanting setting
for this stone house which has seen the
passigg of so much of our history. The
convict quarters have pointed tops to the
windows in a rather ecclesiastical style, but
the house itself is plain Georgian. Of one
story only with big’ rooms and wide ver-
andas, it is simple, dignified and built for
comfort. An American evergreen oak
towers over the drive, but the loveliest of all
the trees are the Norwegian spruce (Abies
excelsa ) which, contrasting with the silver
birch and magnolias, bring a breath of
faraway countries to our land of gumtrees.
Some of the other properties dealt with
in similar style and illystrated with many
lovely photographs, in the countryside
ranging from Goulbum to Canberra and
south to the uplands of the Monaro, are
Marshall Mount, founded by Henry
Osborne, who brought out his bride, after
a romantic marriage in Ireland, to the
original Pumpkin Cottage; Redbank,
Currandooley, Manar, Amprior, Gidleigh,
Tirranna, Pomeroy, Duntroon, Bolaro,
Micalago and Throsby Park.
The book, handsomely produced, is
probably chiefly intended for people in
the districts concerned, for whom it will
be a fascinating and valuable record. For
the general reader it is somewhat crowded
'and complicated owing to the nomadic
habits, of the Australian squattocracy
and to the prowess of the pioneers who
not only established these beautiful
stations but populated them with in-
numerable descendants who intermarried,
cut up the old properties, bought new
properties and generally created such a
wilderness of estates and alliances that
only a Brent of Bin Bin could hope to
sort them out.
However, the reader who can keep his
head in an atmosphere rather like a picnic
race-meeting will still find much to interest
him in the background where a pioneer’s
original £lOOO mounts in his own life-
time to half a million; where Gruner
and Lambert, in a fine tradition which
should be continued today, are invited to
paint on the stations; where schoolboys
beat off an attack by bushrangers ; where
young officers after a race-meeting play
games with a cannon used to start the
horses, with fatal results; where there
is the story of the B.H.P. share handed-
over by a man in Goulburn in payment
of a debt of £2so—the share was said
afterwards to have been worth at one
time £40,000 a year*; and where
there are continually appearing, along
With names more recently celebrated in
war or politics, such historic figures as
Rolf Boldrewood and Edward John Eyre.
Two New Penguins
A recent batch of Penguins includes
Brensham Village, the second book of a
trilogy -by John Moore, a series of
sketches of village life in the west pf
England and some of the same rural
characters which come into Moore’s first
book. Portraits of Elmbury —the colonel,
the schoolmaster, the three village rogues
and others, all typically English; daily
happenings in the three village pubs, the
cricket match and the darts games, are
all lively descriptions, and there is an
enthralling chapter on the Great Bren-
sham Frost which killed all the fruit on
the trees before it had ripened and im-
poverished most of the village people.
The menace of a syndicate which be-
gins to buy up all the available land and
cottages before the Second World War
brings home with force what must be
happening all over England and makes
the reader sympathetic with the writer
in his nostalgic yearning for the past.
In a different category is The Painted
Veil, by Somerset Maugham. At nearly
eighty that wonderful old writer con-
tributes a preface which shows that he
is still as interested in story-writing as
a craft as he was at twenty when he was
a student at St. Thomas’s Hospital and
Easter gave him six weeks’ vacation.
With his clothes in a gladstone and twenty
pounds in his pocket he set out for
Europe, visited Genoa and Pisa and then
went to Florence, where he stayed with a
widowed lady and with her daughter read
Dante’s Inferno.
He lived laborious days. He started
each one by translating a few pages of
Ibsen's plays so that he might acquire
mastery of technique and ease in writing
dialogue ; then, Ruskin in hand, he ex-
amined the sights of Florence, admiring
what the master admired and turning the
scornful shoulder of extreme youth on
what the master disapproved of. After
lunch he had an Italian lesson, and then
went daydreaming along the Amo. When
dinner was done he went looking for
adventure but such was his innocence
that he always came home to be locked
in by the signorina as virtuous as he went
out. He was bitterly conscious that not
thus behaved the writers of the romantic
era. .
One day the landlady's daughter told
him that Pia, a character in the Inferno,
was a gentlewoman of Siena whose
husband, suspecting her of adultery and
afraid on account of her family to put
her to death, took her down to his castle
in the Maremma, the noxious odors of
which he hoped would do the trick: but
she took so long to die that he had her
thrown out of the window. For years he
brooded over this probably apocryphal
tale of the fair Ersilia, always seeing it as
a modern story; but it was not until he
made a long journey into China that he
found the perfect setting.
This is the only novel, he says, in
which he starts from a story rather than
from a character; and one might add
that this is one of the rare occasions
when a practising author has described
concisely and has demonstrated clearly
how a creative writer’s mind works, for
The Painted Veil is merely the old Italian
story retold in terms of a pretty, vivacious
young English wife married to a stiff
young biologist husband in China. She
takes a fancy to a handsome, charming,
middle-aged Assistant Colonial Secretary.
The husband discovers the liaison, accepts
a post in a Chinese city where cholera
is raging, and compels his wife to go
with him. He dies of cholera and she
returns to Hong Kong with the secretary’s
baby.
An ordinary-enough story-—what makes
it live so intensely? It is not the form
or the technique of writing which
Maugham consciously acquired in
Florence by translating Ibsen, but the
understanding of human nature prob-
ably unconsciously acquired from his in-
cessant observation. Maugham under-
stands what he is observing, unlike Henry
Handel Richardson, who is a magnificent
reporter but does not seem to have under-
stood a thing of what she was reporting.
There was an amusing aftermath to
Maugham’s attempt to put living flesh
on the bones of Ersilia’s story. He had
originally called his hero and heroine
Lane, and there were Lanes in Hong
Kong. They brought an action which
cost his publishers £250 ; and he changed
the name to Fane. There was an
Assistant Colonial Secretary in Hong
Kong and there was an Assistant Colonial
Secretary in Maugham’s book. The
official considered himself libelled and
threatened to institute proceedings, much
to Maugham’s surprise.
In England a Prime Minister, an Arch-
bishop of Canterbury or a Lord Chan-
cellor can be put into a book without
the present holders of those exalted titles
turning a hair. It seemed strange that
the temporary occupant of so magnificent
a post should imagine himself aimed at;
but in order to avoid trouble he changed
Hong Kong to Tching-Yen, The book
was recalled and the sixty or so copies in
existence are now bought by collectors
at a high price.
F. S.
Reviewed Briefly
A Poem of Praise: H. N. Spalding
(Basil Blackwell). A number of short
pieces. The author, a Fellow of the
Royal Society of Literature, states in an
introduction that his works: “Frankly
and unashamedly, alike in matter and in
manner... .aren’t for the fashion of these
times.” They point, he says, “not to
World War, but to World Renaissance.”
Mr. Spalding draws deeply on a know-
ledge of comparative religion to produce
verses which seem to have more mystical
flavor than genuine compulsive mystical
feeling. As for the out-of-fashion
“manner”: it is not so much a matter of
form as-of deliberate poetic archaisms—
thro’, open’d, beckoneth. No doubt the
writer has some good reason for using
this device ; but that, whatever it may
be, is not explained in his introduction.
Many of his lines and phrases are
awkward, but there is no question of his
sincerity of purpose,
* * # *
The Riddle of the Forest: J. E. Gurdon
(Nelson). A group of boys, flying through
the air with Professor Carrington, the
geologist, prang on a South American
coast, where they find a hermit waving
to them through the jungle. They seek
escape from the jungle in climbing a
narrow Aztec stairway cut into the sheer
face of a mountain thousands of feet
high; the stairway has no outer rail, and
one slip means death ; the story goes on
to pigmies, and an attack by a huge
prehistoric animal, a mesosaurus, a lizard
more than 70ft. long.
* * * *
The Four Seasons of Manuela: Victor
W. Von Hagen (Dent). The story of
Manuela Saenz, Simon Bolivar’s volatile
mistress, told as a full-length historical
novel. Bolivar was almost as noted for
the callous brevity of his love-affairs as
he was for his generalship when Manuela
Saenz, the illegitimate daughter of noble
Spanish-American parents and wife of an
English sea captain living at Lima, met
him in 1822. From then until his death
from tuberculosis in 1830 she, by sheer
persistence and uncommon physical en-
durance, followed Bolivar through his
campaigns in the Andes until eventually
he came to love her as greatly as she had
loved him since their first meeting. She
was one of history’s truly remarkable
women—beautiful and brave, witty and
wanton. Although the book is clumsily
written the cumulative effects of its story,
the interest and grace of quotations from
records and letters, carry it impressively
towards the tragedy of Bolivar’s deposi-
tion and death and Manuela’s death-in-
life thereafter.


' >•■- x
m.m
m
i*
■
n
i;r
: IP
»» :«»
ttrfHi
1
vS.\ ■' x .•■ :
■
MB
9 SBBBBBSB -r
mlmM
iiiiiiiii
is
IP
3
i
MMMMMI
raHISi«iBIH
Wtr '
*Pr
•••
: I
i. .
■* . ;
.:: :,«-: ,?; . -, 1 f.j ■ '" \ '' I
. N .. ~
- * M
TP
£&:&:;-.-ic i: X
y
m
■■
;•; • ■ - ; - ;!
y
in
mm
The “Oatley” Table. Four process
chrome-plated frame, heat-resistant Formica
top in many colours. 4ft. x 2ft. 6in.,
£2O/16/-; 4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in.,
£2B/10/6; sft. x 3 ft., £29/6/6.
Take to-morrow’s world lot© your kitchen, to-day.
Kitchen Furniture the tubular way
Think of a hundred different designs in kitchen furniture . . . and they’re all sure to be at
Anthony Horderns’. If you love the gleaming suites of tubular steel, gay coverings, you’ll be ordering our
“Oatley” and “Park” settings. You’ll appreciate their prices, too, and the easy terms on which you can buy
p: ‘
t'.:
%
m
u
w
&
m
m
*
mi
m
m
m
H
—--v.
~#i
■
111
'
a&
*
/
CP
M
PARK SETTING, £3O/8/-. Brilliantly coloured. Sturdy
metal frame belies its fragile looks. Table top of Formica, heat
resistant. Chairs have padded seats. 5 pieces. Priced at only £3O/8/'.
CREAM LACQUERED STOOLS. The snappy looking stool
on the right has sturdy metal frame, comfy wooden seat.
Without back: 18in. 20/-; 24in„ 21/6; 27in, 28/-.
With back: IBin., ' 25/6; 24in., 27/3; 27m., 28/-.
All goods on this page
available on easy terms.
WOODEN LINEN PRESS, Spic and span in
Whitewood. A roomy sft. high, 3ft. wide linen press. Will take
care of all yard linen. Unstained, £l4. Stained, £l4/15/9.
KITCHEN FURNITURE, FOURTH FLOOR. TELEPHONE; M 2401.
i
MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY.


Heaving her off the beach
THE BLONDE
IN THE BIKINI
By OLAF RUHEN
SUMMER is the season for lovers, the
long warm nights, the scent of
flowers and a moon as big as a
barrel-top.
It’s the season for sportsmen, too; for
cricket and tennis and for sails driving
a scudding hull, and for surf and swim-
ming and aquaplaning. Spear-fishermen
love the summer, for then they really
can stay under long enough to harpoon a
breakfast.
Summer is the season for the ice-cream
man, for the kids in the back of the
family “bomb,” for the salvage man and
the farmer and the fisherman and the
gardener.
And in the world of city journalism,
the orbit of the Great Sunday Newspaper,
summer is the season for having bathing
beauties in Bikinis heaved off beaches.
Few people not actually engaged in the
profession of reporting the weighty events
of the world can have any conception of
the amount of thought, organisation,
influence, co-operation and hard work that
goes into the effort of banning a Bikinied
blonde from a beach. Those who imagine
the intelligence is brought to their Sunday-
morning bedside simply because of the
watchfulness of a news-sleuth who
happens to see the event and summons
an alert photographer to the scene can
have no idea of the efforts which
are expended in seeing that the public gets
the news.
The principle of taking pictures of a
Bikini girl being banned is, of course,
sound and in the highest traditions of
newspaper practice. The picture of a
Bikini girl not being banned is always a
little suspect, as pandering to the salacious.
In the same way, pictures of nudists
(back view) may only be used in articles
condemning nudists or, at the very most,
making nudism the subject of restrained
humor. Similarly, pictures of drug-addicts
in moronic attitudes may only accompany
articles of the very highest moral tone.
So with the girl in the Bikini the subject
is incomparably safer if the story is con-
demnatory and what more con-
demnatory story than that the lady is, at
the moment the picture is taken, being
officially removed from the public gaze?
Thus, and thus only, may the lass who has
officially offended a thousand beach-
baskers be presented, at her most reveal-
ing, to a million newspaper readers.
One further aspect must be played up
in the letterpress, and that is the lady’s
reason for so appearing. The reason need
not be good, but she must have one. Thus
it is sufficient if she spent last summer
basking on the Lido, and feels that Aus-
tralian regulations are archaic. More
commonly, she is a showgirl, and “strap-
marks” will interfere with her work —
perhaps even jeopardise her job. Or she
has just landed in Australia, and these are
the only varieties of swimsuits she has
ever worn. It doesn’t matter.
It does matter, however, that the suit
be not entirely reprehensible. It must be
just revealing enough to horrify the beach-
inspector, yet not so indecent as to make
the chief sub-editor’s wife descend to
cutting remarks in the home. There’s a
very delicate distinction, but fortunately
Nature herself has provided a handy rule-
of-thumb dividing-line in the navel.
Navels are anathema to beach-
inspectors, but they never stir an eyebrow
in a newspaper office. Nipples, not navels,
are what set editors screaming for the-’
retouch man; even though the remainder
of the subject’s mammary equipment is
exposed in its entirety.
However, the picture of a pretty girl
dressed in as little as decency allows is
almost a “must” for a Sunday paper,
being reckoned in drawing-power second
only to pictures of children with animals,
with child pictures and animal pictures
running a close third and fourth. There-
fore, beach-banning of Bikinis must go
on.
But not any girl, in any Bikini.
Certainly the roving photographer is under
instructions to take “pretty-girl” pictures
on beaches, but the clothing, though pre-
ferably scanty, must in these instances be
fully up to beach-inspector requirements.
One may even write a perfectly moral
illustrated story about beach requirements
being less severe in one place than at
another. The girl to be thrown off the
beach is a different problem altogether,
and the work is planned a long way in
advance.
In the classical form, the (disembodied)
subject is brought up at conference on
the Tuesday morning before publication
of the paper. “Conference” is an institu-
tion in Sunday newspapers, and is neces-
sitated by the fact that, in the nature of
things, the first issue of a Sunday news-
paper is forced to appear without any
news whatsoever. The presses begin to
run within half an hour of the last Satur-
day-afternoon paper, and therefore
nothing at all has happened of which the
public is not already apprised.
This is a state of affairs which members
of the newspaper hierarchy take for
granted, and, though they manage to fill
most of the paper with stories that have
appeared elsewhere through the week,
they make some concessions to the pre-
vailing idea that a newspaper should
contain news by manufacturing some. In
this they are aided by a very large con-
course of hangers-on, publicity men (or
public-relations officers) or people who
want to draw attention to their own
personal sagacity or to activities in which
they are financially interested, particu-
larly in the entertainment business.
So, every Tuesday morning (Monday
is a holiday on a Sunday newspaper) the
conference is attended by the editor-in-
chief, the editor, the associate-editor, the
editor of the magazine page, the sporting
editor, the society editor, the news editor,
the city editor, a representative of the
advertising department (who tells them
how many pages they have to fill), the
photographic Alitor, the chief sub-editor
and the chief-of-staff’s secretary, whose
function is to keep the stories clean and
take a type-written record of other pro-
ceedings.
The subject of the girl in the Bikini
may be brought up by any one of these
except the secretary, and is generally men-
tioned by at least three or four, because
the enterprising press-agent whose idea it
was is not so green as to put all his eggs
in one basket. He has probably spent a
considerable sum from his entertainment
allowance in implanting the idea in the
minds of quite a bunch of the boys. All
the bunch will, however, be employed on
the one newspaper, because the press-
agent has other ideas for other news-
papers and doesn’t want his stories
duplicated.
In its original form the press-agent’s
idea is just a girl. He leaves it entirely
to the newspaper to do what it can with
her. However, he has left several of
the paper’s officials indebted to him for
theatre-seats or a dinner or a cocktail-
party, and he knows they will do their
best for him, if someone else hasn’t out-
bid him on a better proposition. Perhaps,
though, the press-agent is the girl herself.
Or she may be a niece of the wife of
the managing-editor or even of the
chairman of directors. The only question
then is the nature of the excuse which
will accompany her picture into the
paper.
The function of the photograph is to
popularise the young lady, the enter-
tainment in which she is appearing, or,
frequently, to introduce her to a public
which doesn’t know her yet but has to
be made avid to read her life-story, per-
haps in another magazine associated with
the Sunday newspaper. The only ques-
tion • that really concerns the conference
is whether the newspaper will have her
thrown off the beach, or have her, as one
pestered by the brutes, show how she
combats “wolves.”
In the latter instance, as the public will
recall, there is frequently a picture of
the lady taken in the bathroom with a
towel, explaining graphically how she
combats that type of wolf who crashes
bathroom doors. In no other circum-
stances can a bathroom picture appear
in a reputable Sunday paper.
The conference seldom comes to a
decision on this major point, or indeed
on any other. The city editor takes it
into his own hands and, when the maga-
zine editor has retailed his latest story,
returns to his desk and summons a
reporter.
“We want a picture of Dilly James in
a Bikini, getting thrown off a beach,” he
says. “I believe she’s got some wonderful
Bikinis. She’s staying at this address.
You can have Spike for a photographer
and I’ll get you a car. You’ve done it
before. Should be a good story in it.”
The reporter says, “Okay, I’ll fix it
for this afternoon.”
The lapse of time is not mentioned,
because the reporter has a lot to do. He
already knows what beach the girl will
get thrown off, because he needs the co-
operation of the beach-inspector who
will do the throwing, and not aU beach-
inspectors are co-operative. In fact, on
his best beach there are two beach-in-
spectors always on duty and one of them
is very un-co-operative indeed. However,
the other, who has a weakness for seeing
his picture in the paper, and who has a
collection of photographs of himself in
the presence of some of the best undressed
girls in Australia, more than makes up
for his colleague’s surliness.
When he has been warned, and the
baths-keeper has been warned about a
dressing-room, and the girl has consented
to the idea, and a costume has been
bought, borrowed or made for her, and
she has collected beach shoes, and the
reporter has looked up the file of news-
paper clippings marked “Women’s Cloth-
ing, Beachwear, Scanty” (and therefore
is almost impossible to find), and the file
of photographs marked “Bikinis” (which
therefore is practically worn out), and
therein has tried unsuccessfully to find
a new idea from a couple of summers
back, they are ready to go.
The photographer, the reporter and the
car-driver collect the girl at her hotel and
take her to the beach. She changes in
the dressing-sheds and the photographer
takes a very close look at her as she
comes out, because this is the first chance
he has had to look at her figure.
The girl, of course, has an ample bath-
robe, but comes out with it on her arm
—“if she is experienced—t 0 nflW
photographer just this opportunity u
is seldom that the photographer S’ J
luck to strike a girl who is beautiful kJ?
with a keen eye for points to £
down and others to emphasise and SS
“J expert knowledge of camera angles and
Even if that is impossible, he can play-
U P her bes t points and make her look
presentable and when all else fails he
have her open her mou th wide and
detract the public’s eye from her feature
Qnce he girl has pm Qn k
again and the friendly beach-inspector has
signalled that the coast is clear of the
surly one, they all. go down the beach-
the girl in the bath-robe, so that she
doesn t attract a crowd that will iam m,
the p icture? and the cardriver f J
fifteen yards tryi t 0 look as
though hg is with a di | t “
abo g etber 1 par - v
If the girl hasn’t good legs the picture
Will be taken of her *** with fhe in-
“g an A-ger at
“r. U h ® r le gs are good she will be
Laken standing, with a knee bent (unless
18 too broad in the hips, when her
tegs will be crossed and her feet turned
out). No matter what the pose, the
photographer will take four or five shots
and the beach-inspector will practise
walking up to the girl and yelling natur-
ally a t her. This is another reason of
COU rse, for avo iding the crowd, and’for
the photographer wrapping his camera
jn a towe , photographers are never
bashful.
Back at the bath . house they take an .
other icture f the ir , j h
h custodj b ec a use of his eo-opera-
.. , ’ „ . v ‘ ,
l . n and bls c ° eci ' on pictures ot
°* himself with semi-dressed girls,
Dn the way back to the city the reporter
as ks the girl for the story, mindful of
the chief’s words, “Should be a good
one.”
'Hie girl will often take an intelligent
interest in the story which is to be attri-
buted to her, and will even make or veto
suggestions on occasion, particularly if
the experience has been a new one for
her. It nearly always is the story of
indignation: “People must have dirty
m inds.” “In Norway I used to bathe
in the nude ... .. to the South of France
, , , . • .... . T .
no one lo “ ked , ,w ' oc . at th f “ stunK - 11
was considered very modest.
_ . ..." , ,
Sometimes it is innocence: I had no
idea ” “I landed in Australia only yester-
daY-” “I didn’t know they had laws like
that anywhere.”
Sometimes it is provocative: “If a
girl has a good body I think it is her
duty to show it.”
The reporter can always fall back on
tbe cos tume itself, which, of necessity, is
home-made. “I made it myself. lam
very handy with a nee dle.” “My old
mother, who makes all my clothes, ran
U p f or me to g Q swimming”—this is
an exceptionally good line, giving the
right air of propriety —or, “It’s really
onl y a couple m X bather's silk scarves
sewn to S ether > but I thought it was nice,
When he writes the story he has to
be careful to say it happened “yesterday,"
though this is Tuesday and it won’t be
published until Sunday. But in that
way the public knows tbat this is news,
. . . TKa
And everyone is delighted. The beach
§ ets a boost, and the traders thereabouts
SHORT STORIES
“The Sheep-stealers”
by John Fountain
A wild night at a country boarding-
school, when the hoys get out to steal
a sheep and stage a barbecue.
In Next Week’s "Bulletin
order more hot-dogs, more ice-cream.
The lady is pleased with the photograph,
and so are the beach-inspector and the
baths custodian.
The show in which she is a show-girl
is’happy—for did not the story say she
could not afford to be tanned unevenly,
thereby promising quite large expanses
of even skin to the public? For some
strange occupational reason the reporter
and photographer are happy when their
efforts appear in -print. The publicity-
man is happy, and the editor is happy
because he has wiped off his indebtedness.
What a happy picture it is, to he sure,
the blonde in the Bikini being ordered
from the beach!
Christmas Bells
See them, the wild children
Running in their straight frocks
Of boldest orange and vermilion
All day in the sandstone rocks;
Where, sliding his crimson scales,
The black snake rustles and flows
Down the dry waterfalls
And smoky the blue wind blows,
Heady and hot from the hollow,
Telling what robe of fear
Scarlet and flaring yellow
The summer forest will wear.
“My children will never behave,
They have the sun’s hot flesh,”
Cries the old mother in her cave;
“There on their long bare legs
“In the sun, in the smoke, in the
threat,
Out from the cool stone shelves,
They dance all day in the heat
Like little bushfires themselves.”
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, February 4,1953
Vol. 74—No. 3808
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings ( opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
CAPITALISM OR CANNIBALISM?
Some crushing economic facts will have to be faced
by the people of Australia and by its Governments,
State and Federal, before very long. These facts will
determine whether free enterprise is to exist even in a
modified form, or whether it is to fall, bankrupt, into
the hands of the Socialists as liquidators.
The first fact is that our national production is not
sufficient to support our ideas of a living-and-leisure
standard, combined with “social security,” and at the
same time provide the means of maintaining and
expanding our essential capital assets, such as factory
plant, public transport systems, water-conservation
schemes, power-generation undertakings. The second
fact is that price-control has not allowed legitimate
business to make profits in keeping with the inflation
m money, costs and wages, with the result that disclosed
“profits” have often really been losses. A third
fact is that taxation is now on such a scale that people
who are normally in the investor class have become,
after being first squeezed between inflation in their
costs of existence and the reduction in their real
incomes, comparatively impotent in their power to
provide industry and Governments with capital funds.
The middle-class, traditionally a thrifty, industrious
class, has, through taxation and inflation, been robbed
of its customary economic place in the community.
All types of investors have suffered since 1939.
Bondholders have come off very badly, losing heavily
through inflation. So have people with money in the
bank or in life-policies. Then, too, there is the unfor-
tunate landlord —his rents pegged, his rates and main
tenance up. Holders of industrial ordinary shares have
had a better chance to maintain their position ; but
they, too, have fared unhappily, on the whole. There
was a great boom in share prices during the post-war
quinquennium in anticipation of better times to
come; but trading is now difficult, whilst the
profits made by industry during and since the war have
not been sufficient, after payment of taxes, to give
business the strength it needs in times like the present.
When landlords refuse to build more houses for
rent, when investors balk at putting money into Gov-
ernment loans, and when industry finds it difficult to
raise capital or to get the bank finance it believes
necessary to carry on —and when all these things are
the result of an outright loss of incentive or of the
exhaustion of private capital resources —then we may
take it that we are approaching a complete showdown
in our political economy.
Our economic and financial problems at present
are not merely the result of the loss of financial
liquidity. Some concerns may be overloaded with
stocks and book-debts, and their difficulty may appear
on the surface to be one that will be solved as soon
as their funds are again liquid. But the main problem
goes very much deeper than that. It is that we are not
producing enough goods for consumption or for turn-
ing into capital assets, and that of the total production
too great a proportion is being absorbed by consumers.
If there were sufficient desirable production to mefet
all our requirements, created at a reasonable cost, then
there need be no major problem either of liquidity or
of finding the investment funds required to finance the
needs of private or public enterprise.
What happens when loan funds are not sufficient
to carry out essential works, when landlords cease to
build homes for a growing population and housing
becomes ever scarcer, and when investors come to
regard business and industry as being too unprofitable
and insecure a repository for their diminished savings'?
There is the gravest danger, in such circumstances,
that the whole system of private ownership and private
employer-employee relationship would collapse. What
private enterprise had been unable to do, because of
soaring wages costs, price-control and heavy taxation
(largely, perhaps, as a result of deliberate Socialist
plotting), a Socialist Government might attempt to do
by means of an infinity of regulations and by means
of further, gross inflation. It would mean, in total, the
virtual socialisation of the means of production, dis-
tribution and exchange. In fact, achievement of the
Socialist objective.
What is the alternative? It has been said here
before that in Australia there is not enough produc-
tion, not enough efficiency (employer and employee),
not enough profit, not enough savings, not enough
investment. There are too many non-producers
living on the producers: a kind of economic
cannibalism. Taxation of industry is too heavy. The
answer to our problem, then, is to tackle those
deficiencies as quickly as possible, in their right order.
Some are matters for State Governments. Others
are obviously Federal matters. Industry itself has much
to answer for, employer as well as employee. But the
'SOfo / o c ,^ 7^
"ALL MY OWN WORK"
ultimate object must be kept clear: We are in need
of greatly increased production, and of that produc-
tion a much larger proportion must be encouraged to
flow into reproductive channels. Thrift must be given
top priority. If we are to depend on capitalists for
the funds required by industry and for essential Gov-
ernment works, then Capitalism will require some
intelligent dieting and nursing during the next few
years. And no Socialist Government is capable of
doing that. J
Preamble and Reality
The only part of its decisions at the just-ended Adelaide
conference which the Australian Labor Party allowed
to be published in full was the new preamble to its
constitution. Preambles, as the Communists have long
known, are useful to conceal one’s intent. They
may be reconstructed to embody a temporary change
in the party-line before an election or in time of
travail without altering the main aims of the party.
It is easy to understand the purpose of the Adelaide
innovation; it is deliberate deception of electors soon
to go to the polls. “Labor’s” preamble is like an
attractive door on a gallows cell.
The preamble begins by saying that “The Aus-
tralian Labor Party is an organisation having as its
purpose the development of a free, independent and
enlightened Australian nation within the British Com-
monwealth of Nations.” But when the reader turns
to constitution and platform of the party, unchanged
for 32 years except in detail about method, he reads
that the sole objective of Federal “Labor” is “the
socialisation of industry, production, distribution and
exchange,” and that the stated objective of Mr. Cahill s
party in N. S. Wales goes further and puts in black
type its purpose of “development of policy of socialisa-
tion of industry” and the public ownership of
monopolies, including steamship services, ferries,
insurance, “etc.” —a small, abbreviated word with a
vast meaning. It is also a very significant one when
it is considered that Mr. Cahill s mob proposes the
“establishment of new industries and enterprises under
democratic control, ’ and regulation of such other
industries “as may be proclaimed by a properly-
constituted authority to be suitable with a view to
“efficiently organising and developing them.” Pre-
sumably all will be organised in the same way that the
milk, egg, fruit and vegetable and transport industries
have been “organised” and “developed” by Mr. Cahill.
He and his friends are also pledged to “provide for the
participation of employees in management,” and for
the “nationalisation of coal, oil, arms and munitions”
under which the whole country could be socialised.
On top of this the State platform in N. S. Wales
carries a clause in line with that placed before the
Adelaide conference and decently covered over so that
it might not make electors apprehensive:
Establishment of a National Planning Council—
(a) To plan the volume and direction of produc-
tion and distribution; (b) to co-ordinate the remain-
ing private section of industry with the nationalised
section; (c) to control prices.
Mr. Cahill and his friends have signed their formal
pledge to this under the party rules, and Dr. Evatt and
the Federal leaders are also pledged “unreservedly, it
their signatures mean anything.
These are the Federal and State principles of action
to which “Labor” politicians are bound to a man;
SOCIALISATION OF INDUSTRY BY—
(a) The constitutional utilisation of Federal and
State Parliaments, municipal and other Govern-
ment-created authorities. .
(b) The national planning of the economic, social
and cultural development of the Commonwealth.
(c) The complete control of banking and credit
by the nation. „ •
(d) The organisation and establishment of co-
operative activities in which workers and other
producers shall be trained in management,
responsibility and control of industry. _
(e) The cultivation of Labor ideals and principles,
the development of the spirit of community
service and the recognition of the responsi-
bilities of citizenship. .
(f) The establishment of economic and research
bureaux. „ , _ , .
(g) Progressive enactment of reform as denned in
the Labor platform.
All this looks innocent enough until the enormous
significance of the first words of the “principles are
read: “Socialisation of industry by.... ’ Everything
that “Labor” does down to the most trivial acts is
another deliberate step towards ultimate socialisation,
its objective the same as that of the Communist party
except that it proposes, temporarily, at any rate, to
have its Stalin reside in Australia.
Even the “progressive enactment of reform” as
proposed by the “Labor” platform seems innocent
until it is discovered that this reform includes the con-
fiscation of the banks, the abolition of the Senate, the
abolition of the,Slates as such and the clothing of a
one-House “Commonwealth Parliament with sovereign
powers and the authority to create States and pro-
vinces possessing delegated constitutional powers.
It is no wonder that “Labor,” when it asks for
power, hides these aims as far as it can behind a suave,
deceptive preamble. It is no wonder that its ‘ preamble
does not dwell on real objectives, and in fact contradicts
them by its assurance that “the ‘Labor’ party supports
at all times the basic civil rights guaranteed in the past
by such historic documents as the Magna Carta and the
Bill of Rights.”
It doesn’t. It actually not only supports, but is
pledged to implement as soon as possible by every
cunning device at the disposal of its Governments, a
plan of revolution of which the ultimate objective is
the ownership of industry as a whole by a permanent
“Labor” Government inducted into office by methods
too transparent to anybody who studies the electoral
of the Cahills and Gairs in N. S. Wales and
Queensland and its results.
Its plan includes, as anybody who studies the
“principles of action” of the Federal party and the
“objectives” of both State and Federal parties can soon
assure himself, soviet control of industry and the
destruction of everything which is at present con-
sidered constitutional, including freedom of the Press.


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Counter to Cahill
Premier Cahill, with a great show of
virtue, boasts that he is making no
promises in his election campaign. The
virtue arises from necessity; his pre-
decessor, the McGrrrrr, made so many in
1947 and 1950 that every electorate is clut-
tered up with the ghosts of those six-year-
old and three-year-old unfulfilled pledges.
Having made no promises himself,
Cahill now appears to begrudge Opposi-
tion-leader Treatt the few promises he
has made on behalf of the Liberals —
modest enough by “Labor” standards,
and for that reason much more possible
of fulfilment. He is telling the electors
not to trust Treatt’s promises, but to judge
his Government on its record. If they
do so judge it, Cahill and his crew will
go out on their ear on February 14.
Mr. Treatf s promises are in the main
sober and practical. He assumes the
return of taxing-responsibility to the
Slates and he undertakes to reduce taxa-
tion. Two specific reductions will be the
payroll-tax (to be abolished altogether)
and death duties (Cahill’s amending bill
increasing rates and changing the
incidence to be repealed). Tram-, bus-
and train-fares are to be reduced, though
not to any sensational degree; so are
rail-freights. Public transport will be put
beyond political control. Home-building
is to be encouraged by making greater
use of Rural Bank facilities, and by
releasing for home-building “thousands
of excellent building-blocks now tied up
by Government resumption.”
As a stimulus to building for rent, rent-
control will be lifted from new homes.
The Housing Commission will be retained,
but tenants will be encouraged to buy
their homes ; the ballot system of allocat-
ing homes will be replaced by a points
system, and commission houses will be
subject to rent-control. In occupancy dis-
putes between owner and tenant the test
in future will be the degree of hardship ;
the obligation to find other accommoda-
tion will be on the party whose hardship
is the less ; this is a reform long overdue.
In the matter of land resumed for
soldier-settlement the Treatt policy is that
a just price should be paid, and that
“proclamations” over land shall remain
in force for a definite time only. Under
“Labor” some land has been “pro-
claimed” for years but not resumed.
The promises contained in the Liberal
leader’s policy-speech (and endorsed by
the leader of the N. S. Wales Country
party) are not extravagant, and they are
stated in clear terms, not mere double-
talk. They could form the basis of a
really progressive Administration. It is
up to the people of New South Wales to
give them a chance of fulfilment. Heaven
knows, after 12 years of political inepti-
tude, opportunism and larrikinism from
“Labor” Governments under McKell,
McGirr and Cahill the State is desperately
in need of an honest, commonsense
Administration.
New U.S. Policy
Most of the comment in the U.S.A. on
President Eisenhower’s reported decision
to remove the Seventh Fleet from its job
of supervising Formosa Strait is political.
In other countries comment is based on
genuine opinion as to what effect it may
have on China’s freedom of action and
on Chiang Kai-shek’s intentions. The
British official opinion has not been made
clear, and its expression has been left to
the newspapers.
Actually it is difficult to forecast what
the change may bring. Chiang Kai-shek,
whatever his boasts, is certainly not strong
enough to reconquer China if the Chinese
effort in Korea is any criterion. And he
is not strong enough to hold Formosa
except by grace of the Americans, who
have a mission with his armies and who
have been supplying him with materiel,
not because they like him, but because
Formosa is important to the strategic
defence of the Pacific.
It would be easy enough for the U.S.
to interfere with any Chinese Communist
invasion plans at short notice without the
preliminary threat involved in the fre-
quent parading of U.S. ships through
waters which the Chinese de facto
Government insists on regarding as part
of its territorial waters.
Invasion of Formosa must almost cer-
tainly mean American intervention. And,
in any case, the clearing of the strait
saddles the Communists with new military
responsibilities which will considerably
add to their load. Though Chiang may not
be strong enough to reconquer China
he is certainly strong enough to raid it,
and this must be guarded against by the
holders of the mainland.
The basis of the new Washington policy
is, however, most probably to be found
in the traditional Republican-party isola-
tionism applied to a situation in which
the United States cannot remain isolated.
The stand appears to be that the U.S.A.
will remain aloof from the politics of
friendly countries unless its policies can
be furthered by agreement and equally
aloof from the national quarrels and
internal wars of unfriendly people like
the Chinese unless American interests are
threatened.
But where there is threat it will be met
with full resistance. Thus the Korean
war will be carried on with more vigor
and with some attempt to reach a con-
clusion. Europe will have less help unless
it abandons nationalism, which it is un-
likely to abandon, real patriotism being
just as rife there as ever. On the whole
it should work out well for everybody,
bring about more self-reliance in some
quarters and produce a world policy with
less visionary background than that which
existed while Messrs. Roosevelt, Truman,
Evatt and other dreamers tried to
remodel the earth. U.N.O. has most to
fear from it.
Crime Marches On
On Wednesday of last week there was
hanged, at Wandsworth jail (England), a
youth of 19 who had been in company
with a 16-year-old burglar when the
latter, at the behest of his older accom-
plice, shot a policeman in a battle on the
roof of a Croydon warehouse that they
intended to rob together. The case had
peculiar features: the actual murderer of
the constable, because of his youth, could
not be hanged under British law; and
the one who was hanged was under arrest
and in the amis of a policeman when
the shot was fired by his accomplice.
Still, the law is clear enough in such
a case, and the law has been carried out.
Notwithstanding the alarming growth of
crimes of violence in Britain, there was
the usual hysterical commotion, from the
Press and Socialist M.P.s, and the usual
Communist-inspired demonstration. But
the “Daily Express” struck a sane note
when it stated: “Those wallowing in
sentiment about Bentley should remember
that a policeman was shot dead, and that
while Craig pulled the trigger it was
Bentley who yelled ‘Let him have it,
Chris! ’ Those who commit acts of
violence must accept the consequences.”
In those States of Australia where
“Labor” rules the most wanton and cold-
blooded murderers don’t have to accept
the full consequences. One young ruffian
in N. S. Wales committed two calculated
murders at different times and when
questioned by a policeman tried to shoot
him. Another coolly shot a taxidriver
in the back of the head and dumped his
body because he fancied the cab.
The list of wanton, almost offhand,
murders in N.S.W, is an appalling one.
All the murderers have got in the way of
punishment is jail.
That mercy goes unappreciated in many
of these cases is just as evident as that
jail is little deterrent to brutal crime. In
Sydney last week three lifers attempted
to break out of Parramatta jail in com-
pany with another lag serving 14 years
for attempted rape. One of the lifers
shot a constable in cold blood in 1946.
Two others were in for shooting with
intent to murder a constable in the same
year. .
When the McDonald Country-party
Government was in power in Vic-
toria, (even if only by grace of
“Labor,” it did not hesitate to
hang three people, including a woman,
for a particularly vicious murder. Now
the Cain “Labor” Government is in
power, and a criminal who was found
guilty of shooting a policeman on
January 30 of last year and was sentenced
to death is to escape hanging, but is to
be kept in jail for his natural life.
Thus “Labor” politics make a mockery
of the law in Australia. “Labor” Govern-
ments in the principal States have never
been game to wipe the death sentence
from the Statute Book. But neither have
they been game to carry out the law.
Meantime, especially in “Labor”-
governed States, crime marches on.
Union Funds and Politics
The prize for the most impudent state-
ment of the week goes to W, R. Col-
bourne, president of the N. S. Wales
branch of the A.L.P., who declared that
trade-unions which did not transfer their
political funds to the A.L.Pj. for the
N. S. Wales election campaign were
“traitors to the party.”
There are some unionists who must
feel, to the contrary, that unions which
do transfer their funds, to be used by
the “Labor” party, betray their trusts.
There are many industries in which there
is no work for anybody who will not
join the appropriate union, even if he is
opposed in principle to unionism. The
union has the complete disposal of his
subscriptions, and its leaders hand them
out for political purposes irrespective ot
individual members’ views and principles.
Thus thousands of Australians during the
last few years have been supporting
Communist propaganda with their money
without a word of protest, not altogether
because we are an easygoing lot, but just
as largely because anybody who did pro-
test would find himself without a job,
blackballed and ruined.
“Labor” raised no complaint about this.
It complains only that the Communist
unions compel their members to sub-
scribe to Communism and not to “Labor.”
It feels merely that any union secretary
who does not hand part of the sub-
scriptions of Liberal unionists to support
the “Labor” movement is a “traitor,”
Nobody this side of Moscow with a
sense of justice would be likely to agree.
It is time that some legal steps were
taken by Governments to safeguard union
funds. A royal commission on union
finances would produce facts which
would probably startle even those Aus-
tralians who take a lot of startling.
How To Be a Minister
An even better illustration of “How
‘Labor’ Wins” (B. 28/1/’53) in Queens-
land is the Case of Mx. Riordan, who is
“Labor” M.11.A. for the Flinders (State)
electorate, and is a Cabinet Minister,
although there are fewer than 5000 voters
in his entire electorate, and only 1907 of
them voted for him in the 1949 election.
In 1949 Queensland “Labor” Govern-
ment divided the State into four zones,
each with a different elector-quota, where-
upon there was a redistribution of seats
to increase the number from 62 to 75,
The zones and the quotas which apply
in each of them are: Metropolitan,
10,795 (24 seats); South-east, 9373 (28);
North, 7696 (13); West, 4613 (10).
Preferential voting was abolished without
the people’s consent and the discredited
first-past-the-post system reintroduced.
Effect of the quotas is to give an
elector in the west a vote equal to nearly
three metropolitan votes, since metro-
politan seats are well above their quotas,
whereas the voting population of the west
has remained stable.
Under this system Mr, Riordan stood
for Flinders, in the wesf. He was opposed
by three others representing the Country
party. North Queensland Labor, and an
Independent. There Were 4820 on the
roll. The result ( vide. Queensland Year
Book):
Riordan .. .. 1?07
C.P. .. .. 1610
N.Q. Lab... .. 291
Ind. .. .. 207
Informal .. ... 58 *
4073
Under preferential voting Mr. Riordan
may have held his seat, but it would have
been a “photo-finish”* if he had. The
real point is that Queensland has as its
Minister for Mines a man who polled
only 1907 votes, did not have a* majority
over all his opponents, and could have
lost the seat under preferential voting.
This illustrates in a general way the
political set-up in Queensland and ex-
plains why most Queenslanders believe
that their rights as free electors have been
taken away from therrf by “Labor,” why
“Labor” with 46.9 p.c. of the total votes
cast, against the Lib.-C.P. 49.1 p.c., is
the Government, and to what lengths this
so-called democratic party will go to
defeat democracy.
More Plans for Blair Athol
As quoted by Register,” a writer
in the “New York Times” discovers Blair
Athol (Q.) coalmine and gives it a place
in Pacific strategy;
The mine’s potentialities are tremendous.
At present more than K)ooft. of solid coal,
varying in depth from 90ft. to 102 ft., has
been exposed....reputed to be the largest
known deposit of coal in the southern
hemisphere, covering more than five square
miles. It is exceptionally hard, is not given
to spontaneous combustion, is low in ash
content, relatively smokeless and doesn’t
clinker
... .The factor limiting increased produc-
tion is the inadequacy of the narrow-gauge
railway from the mine to the nearest port,
239 miles away. A high-speed standard-
gauge railroad, plus the expansion of the
mine through modern techniques, according
to engineers of the Nevin Pacific Co. and
the Raymond Concrete Pile Co., both of
New York, would answer the problems
The writer then refers to markets for
the coal in New Caledonia, Pakistan
Japan and Canada, and goes on:
Viewed in relation to the present military
situation, Edward B. Nevin, head of the
Nevin Pacific Company, said: “The Soviet
Army will remain intact, presenting a con-
tinued threat to the United States and Aus-
tralia and others in the Pacific area. The
Manchurian coalfields, plus Soviet ex-
ploitation of Chinese labor and industry,
must be met. Jo do this the productive
capacities of not only Australia but also
Japan and the Philippines can be employed
to produce war materials and supplies. In
order to accomplish this each of those
countries must have coal in vastly increased
quantities.”
He sees the source of much of this
necessary coal in the five-square-miles
deposit at Blair Athol. The vast deposit
has been known to Australians for well
over 50 years. In recent years it came
into the limelight. There was a grand
plan for its working by big English
interests. Why this fell through has never
been satisfactorily explained by either
the Queensland Government or the
English interests.
Now, it seems, American companies are
interested and are talking of investing
millions of dollars in building a new port,
a modern railway and equipping the field
with modern equipment. The plans,
according to “N. Y. Times,” have been
submitted to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment and are “under consideration.”
If there really are concrete proposals—
if the American interests are as eager to
get going as the article suggests—they
should not be allowed to grow mouldy
“under consideration,” The immediate
past history of Blair Athol is one of shilly-
shally, broken promises, union obstruc-
tion, official interference, and Socialist
muddle. Its development on the scale it
obviously merits would be the making of
Central and North Queensland.
Taxing the Trucks
That most State Governments, particu-
larly those under “Labor” control, are
out to kill road-transport in order to
bolster up semi-bankrupt railway systems
is fairly common knowledge; but few
people outside the transport industry
realise the extent to which penal taxes
bear down on the road-hauliers.
Figures prepared by the Road Trans-
port Development Association of Victoria
showing the actual costs incurred by one
long-distance man operating a truck and
semi-trailer between Melbourne and
Sydney are an eye-opener. His truck
and trailer cost him £3600. Registration-
fee for the year was £6B. Road taxes on
50 trips between the capitals, based on
the 12-ton carrying-capacity of his
vehicle, amounted to £lO,lOO. Thus in
one year he paid in taxes close on three
times the initial cost of his vehicles, in
addition to petrol-tax. Sales-tax, of
course, had already been included in the
cost of his trucks.
On the basis of fully-laden trips this
means that for every ton of goods carried
by road between Sydney and Melbourne
or vice-versa, the State Governments
collected £8 10s. in tax. From the point
of view of the general public it means
that without the punitive road-tax goods
could be shifted between the two cities for
£8 10s. a ton less than the present rates.
That road-transport should survive at
all against such tactics is indicative of
two things—the spirit and energy of the
men engaged in it and the inefficiency of
the railways for whose benefit the road-
taxes are imposed.
J. H. Scullin Passes
“El V.’s” farewell:
James H. Scullin, the fourth Labor ex-Prime
Minister to die since 1945 —most people tprge
that W. M. Hughes was one —will rank in
history as a kindly but not as a great one.
He was rather an instrument than a maker o
policy, and his career was marked by mis-
fortune from the beginning, , . . r
His first political contest was unlucky to
him; his opponent was Alfred Deakm. m
first seat he won was Corangamite, a pre-
carious perch for a Labor man. He held it l
only three years before J. C. Manifold too
it from him. He failed to get into the
Victorian State House. •
Few remember today that he was the mm
public sponsor of the socialisation object!
when it was brought forward by E. r. Kusse
at the 1921 Australian Trade Union Conference.
He was put forward to move its adoption y
the committee which drafted it under his cnai -
manship, and barred his way to immediat
preferment by his advocacy of the plan whic
was generally opposed by moderate Labor se
tlo ße-elected to the Federal Parliament, in
1928 he succeeded Mat Charlton as leader
the Federal party only as a matter °t J '
promise, and as a compromise he bee
Prime Minister on the doormat of the ae P
sion with a following in much the same S '
dition as the “Labor” party is today: broke
o Continued on page 7)


into factions, each waiting for its opportunity.
He was helpless without the support of the
Beasley-Lang section, the baby of the Com-
munist-run N.S.W, Trades and Labor Council.
His personality was under the shadow of that
of Theodore, his adversary in the socialisation
fight of 1922-27. He was hampered by the
presence in his party of old-style Labor men —
Fenton, Lyons—who liked neither his extreme
Socialist views nor the record of Theodore,
whom he had to accept as Treasurer. Even
in dire adversity his Government found itself
unable to continue to exist, and it broke up
in chaos in 1931, to give place to a U.A.P.
Government led by one of his recent Ministers,
J. A. Lyons. His Ministry was basically wrecked
by the dissensions about the Niemeyer plan,
features of which he put forward at tire
Premiers’ Conference.
The most advertised incident of his Prime
Ministership was his forcing upon the King
the nomination of Isaac Isaacs as Governor-
General, assuring him that he would not dare
to flout public opinion in Australia by agreeing
to the appointment of another Englishman.
The King’s nominee was Birdwood.
Mr. Scullin’s retirement from the Prime
Ministership saw virtually the end of his career
as a leader. He led the shadow of his party
in Opposition till 1935, but, save for sitting
on one or two war-time committees, he took
no part in administrative government during
the rule of the Curtin Ministry.
From 1934 onwards he was a sick man.
But in the role of an elder statesman, above
faction, he played a big part in the life of the
caucus. Personally he was likeable and
unassuming, popular with members in general.
He was a fine speaker, and, indeed, the last
of “Labor’s” orators. His greatest weakness
was that he was visionary rather than prac-
tical in his outlook. He was a bookish man,
well-read in certain directions and with a sense
of humor that came to his rescue in the darkest
days of his life. And he had no malice. He
once told the writer; “I am constitutionally
unable to hate. It is a great drawback in
politics.”
POLITICAL POINTS
Four years ago an article entitled
“Industrial New South Wales” appeared
in the London “Times.” It was written
by James McGirr, then Premier of N.S.W.,
now chairman of the Maritime Services
Board. Speaking of the development of
his State the McGrrrrr said it had been
“remarkable and almost visionary.” After
four more years of McGrrrrr and Cahill
the development of N. S. Wales is still
visionary, even if it’s not remarkable.
• •
Commenting on Liberal-leader Treatt’s
proposal to appoint a royal commission
to inquire into the N. S. Wales police
force. Premier Cahill said “Many police-
men have given their lives to protect our
citizens, and it is wrong to make the force
a political football.” But, though the
murderers of several policemen over the
past 12 years have been judicially sen-
tenced to death, Cahill’s Government (or
that of his predecessor, McGrrrrr) has
in each case commuted the sentence.
• •
Cahill accuses Treatt of having a mania
for royal commissions. It’s a charge that
can’t be laid against the Cahills ; they
were as reluctant to appoint the liquor
commission' as some of the witnesses were
to give evidence before it.
• •
After hesitating on the brink of the
election pool for many weeks Queens-
land’s Premier Gair has decided to take
the plunge. Date fixed for the big splash:
March 7.
• •
“Labor” doesn’t seem eager to have a
policy for the State elections. The
Adelaide conference left so many prob-
lems up in the air that it seemed for a
while that the Fourth Test match would
have to be abandoned because of the
poor light. In Queensland they went one
better. The State A.L.P. Convention was
scheduled for February 23. After Gair
had announced March 7 as his polling-
day the party executive postponed the
convention till March 23. That’ll give
the boys a chance to be their wildest and
woolliest, without harming the Socialists’
election prospects.
• «
Frank Finnan has had himself photo-
graphed for the benefit of the Albury
people. They must gaze with spme awe
on the features of the man who lost
Hawkesbury on redistribution; won
Darlinghurst on Communist preferences
and then survived on a technicality when
his election was challenged ; lost Darling-
hurst by redistribution ; was rejected as
a candidate for Concord by the A.L.P.;
got preselection for Albury and has now
discovered that it has been “allowed to
languish in the past.” He is promising
to bring it “from a remote city on the
border to something within the real power
of the Cabinet Chamber,” From this
Albury can only assume that Cahill has
promised Finnan a portfolio as Minister
for Murray Lobsters or something if he
wins the seat.
• •
It was John Cain who, as Premier,
went to Morwell in 1947 to proclaim with
a great blare of trumpets the location for
the new brown-coal opencut and briquet-
ting plant. It was the same Cain who
went the other day to Morwell to inspect
the £B-million equipment lying idle and
deteriorating and the non-producing
factories It will be the same Cain vflio
will visit Europe on his way to the Coro-
nation to ask the German engineers for
a. postponement of delivery of the mil-
lions-of-pounds’-worth of equipment they
are making for the same project.
• •
“Kwinana” is a magic word in Westralia
at present. Most of the blessings it con-
jures up lie in the future, but it’s a
measurable future. Work has commenced
on the site of Anglo-Iranian’s huge oil
refinery and the first oil is expected to
flow about midway through 1955 ; full
production, some time later. Not far
from the refinery B.H.P. is to build a
steel-rolling mill. It’s a £4-million job
and will take five years to complete.
Meantime B.H.P. is putting up a fencing-
post factory and hopes to be turning out
posts before the year is over. All this
activity has revived the agitation for a
naval base in Cockburn Sound, in which
Kwinana lies.
• •
When W.A. Opposition-leader Hawke
said he was going to make an election
issue of the new B.H.P. project at
Kwinana, Premier McLarty commented
that nothing would suit him better.
“Labor,” when in office, had done abso-
lutely nothing about W.A.’s valuable raw
materials, said he, hence its dismay as
construction of B.H.P.’s steel rolling-mill
goes ahead.
Hawke maintains that the B.H.P. should
not be given access to Koolan Island
iron-ore unless it binds itself to establish
a complete iron-and-steel industry in W.A.
When Hawke’s party was in power not
long before the war it was prepared to
lease Yampi Sound deposits to a foreign,
concern working for Japanese interests.
The Lyons Government stopped that by
an embargo on the export of iron ore,
and Hawke and his party screamed blue-
murder.
• •
In a big-hearted gesture, the “Labor”-
dominated Sydney City Council has
reduced its municipal rate from 9|d. to
Bd. in the £. At the same time the
“I’ll bet he’s got plenty socked away in his wooden leg!”
Valuer-General has issued revised un-
imprOved capital values. This is how
the “reduction” affects one George-street
property;
Rate
U.C.V. in £. Rate bill.
1952 .. £26,300 9Jd. £lOl3
1953 .. £55,900 Bd. £1863
• •
More fortunate than some Communist
leaders who have visited Moscow for
health reasons, Sharkey is back in Sydney
looking, according to the party rag, “a
picture of health.” He thinks the same
of Stalin, who, he told the “Tribune,”
looks “in the very pink.” Pink ? Watch
your step, Lance. The Kremlin may
interpret that as meaning that the Big
Boss is a Trotskyite deviationist.
e •
Retail sales for the Commonwealth for
the December quarter totalled £531
million, a rise of £8.7 million over the
corresponding quarter in 1951. The
figures must be rather a poser for Doc.
Evatt and those of his colleagues who
for months have been talking as if depres-
sion were not merely round the corner,
but already here. Groceries showed the
biggest increase, from £59 million to
£6B million ; runner-up was “beer, wine
and spirits,” from £4l million to £45
million.
Those grog figures suggest two
problems, depending on the point of
view. (1) How can a country which can
afford to spend £45 million a year on
booze possibly be facing a depression?
(2) How can a country which spends two
pounds on booze for every three it spends
on groceries possibly avoid a depression?
• •
Calwell still seems determined to show
that although Bert may be the leader
Arthur is not necessarily one of the led.
Evatt told the Adelaide conference that
the Senate election would not afford
“Labor” an opportunity for a change of
Government; there would be no dissolu-
tion of the Reps, for another year or
more after that. Calwell told the world
that if “Labor” had a majority in the
Senate after the election it would use it
to “drag the Government before the
electors for judgment.” A week later he
amplified this by referring to the double-
dissolution provisions of the Constitu-
tion and said that any move “would have
to be determined by caucus at its first
meeting in August.” In other words, not
by Bert.
• •
Melbourne’s Degraves-street tunnel,
which has been “proposed” almost as
long as Sydney’s Eastern Suburbs rail-
way, got away to a typical Australian
start. First somebody officially opened
the works by digging out a shovelful of
the street, then contractors’ men started
work. A laborer got the sack. When
this was written all work had ceased, the
men having struck because of the dis-
missal and their union demanding the
man’s reinstatement.
• •
Queensland’s Minister for Labor Jones
is very worried because some people,
entitled to three months’ long leave on
full-pay by legislation of his Government,
prefer to take the money and go on
working. He is talking of amending the
law to punish such people. Strange how
the spectacle of anybody eager to work
seems to worry “Labor” politicians.
• •
Blacktown Tileworks look like surpris-
ing themselves by paying their way. As
the McGrrrrr-Cahifl State Tileworks they
set the taxpayer back something like
£BOO,OOO from the time they were founded
with a flourish of trumpets in 1948 until
they were leased to a private concern last
September. In return they apparently
produced fewer than 150,000 usable tiles.
The lessees now claim to be producing at
the rate of \\ million tiles a year.
• •
Whenever Cahill and Gair hold out to
their constituents the prospect of a bright
future there is always the mental reserva-
tion that the promise does not necessarily
include electricity-users. Sydney has
already commenced its 1953-season black-
outs and Brisbane is expecting the same
power restrictions this winter as last,
including the 7 a.m. start for industry.
,• •
Back in 1870 a mounted trooper shot
an armed criminal named Ward, alias
Thunderbolt, near Armidale (N.S.W.).
The death of the criminal was duly
registered. N.S.W. Attorney-General
Martin, looking-over the books in Armi-
dale court-house, found the entry and
was so excited he told a Sydney columnist
about it. The columnist called it “A
perfect little piece of Australian history.”
History!
• •
Melbourne’s biggest blaze in years—at
the Aquarium—burnt up £30,000-wOrth
of rare birds and fishes and a salamander
which failed to live up to its tradition
of incombustibility. It also nearly took
in Melbourne’s biggest fire-risk, the Ex-
hibition Building, which was only saved
by the bravery of the firemen and service-
men. If this had gone Melbourne would
have lost its most heroically-sized build-
ing, put up when the population was
only a quarter of what it is now, yet could
conceive and construct on the grand scale,
as it did with the Houses of Parliament
and the Law Courts. In the present
temper of its City Fathers and its poli-
ticians, if the Exhibition Building had to
be replaced Melbourne would haggle over
it for a generation and then import a
prefabricated shed from Sweden.
• •
A Danish professor came out of the
wilds of the Philippines greatly excited at
having discovered pygmies “leading a
bow-and-arrow existence, practising poly-
gamy, and believing in fairies.” He
needn’t have gone to all that trouble
to find adult people believing in fairies.
Look at the thousands who believe Dr.
EvatL
• •
A few months ago, as part of the
Cahill Government’s campaign to blame
the Federal Government for its own
shortcomings, Minister for Educatidfi
Fleffron was howling about the lack of
loan money for schools. The impression
was given that the position could scarcely
be worse. That was at the time the Com-
munists and fellow-travellers were holding
mass-meetings and induced the innocent
to sign petitions demanding that Menzies
should float a £ 100-million loan for educa-
tion and make an immediate grant of
£2O million. No loan was arranged ; no
grant was made, yet when the school
year commenced last week with a record
enrolment of 455,000 Heffron said that
reports from inspectors in almost every part
of the State show that there have been only
isolated cases of overcrowding.. . .550 new
classrooms have been built since the end
of last term.... 150 more will be finished
by the end of May.
Yet even while these rooms have been
in course of construction Sydney has been
plastered with stickers proclaiming
“School Building Stopped. Menzies Must
Go.” Heffron isn’t responsible for them,
but until last week—in the middle of an
election campaign—he said nothing to
suggest that they were false.
• •
After being told that the presence of
women was upsetting shearers, the
A.W.U. convention in Sydney passed
resolutions designed to keep the fair sex
away from shearing-sheds. Golfers and
bowlers will read this with envy.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Strict Veg.”; “Migrants Cook Weeds
to Beat High Vegetable Prices,”
said Melbourne “Argus”; but it
was hardly news. The late Edward
Goll, the pianist, got from the home-
paddock of a Victorian western-
district station the ingredients of a salad
that was better than his hostess could
make from tins sent up from the city;
M. Guyot, the French chef who used to
run the Riverside Inn, said to me, “You
see, I have no garden, but I walk along
Yarra Bank and I get ten salads.” The
assistant-curator to the Fitzroy City
Council told the “Argus” that scores of
“Now We Won’t have to go in!”
migrants could be seen daily scouring
vacant allotments. The weeds they col-
lected would be wild forms of cabbages,
turnips and lettuce which often have more
vitamins than their cultured relatives in
- market-gardens. Goll used to say that
more good food was wasted in Australia
than was eaten.
■ij* .
“Villefair”: The inhibited male must
admire the defiant individualism of the
bus-conductress. No order or threat of
authority can make the double-decker-
damsel blow its silvered whistles, press
the buttons dotted all over its buses, or
pull its chains. She would as soon copy
another girl’s hat as use the same starting-
signal, The variety is endless. This
week’s collection: Monday’s girl, a two-
fingered whistle; Tuesday’s girl, two
stamps on the floor like a scared rabbit
giving an alarm ; Wednesday’s girl, a long-
drawn-out, raucous “Rayed! ” ; Thurs-
day’s girl, an equally raucous “Take ’er
away!” But Friday’s girl brought a
dozen heads out of their papers with a
soft, two-toned whistle —the wooing
wolf-whistle. “Keeps him happy,” she
grinned in reply to someone’s comment.
“Makes him feel young again.”
♦♦♦ <+ ❖
“Nunk”: An artist-friend was trans-
acting business in a public place when
two gigantic cops appeared. Round the
walls men stood rigidly at ease, and the
universal prayer could almost be heard:
“Thank God, I’m pure!” The cops
marched down a line of empty cubicles
until they came to a closed door, on
which one of them knocked loudly. This,
ray artist-friend thought, was the pinch.
From behind the door a tiny voice said
“I won’t be long now.” “Then hurry
up, son,” one of the cops said. “Your
mother’s waiting for you outside.”
♦♦♦ <♦
“Alsace”: A son of a Hobart jeweller
lost a waterproof watch trying to scale
Federation Peak, in the wild south-west
of Tasmania, in January, 1949. A New
Australian found it in December, 1952.
After four years under feet of snow
it needed only cleaning; it is going and
keeping good time —a great help to Pop’s
sales-talk.
♦♦♦ * *
“Morris the Tinker”: Many nation-
alities seek refuge under the kilt. When
my father was a boy, “The Celestial High-
lander,” Sydney restaurateur Quong Tart,
was well to the fore at Highland gather-
ings in a kilt of Royal Stewart colors.
In 1940 the Highland pipe band leading
the route-march of the 2nd A.I.F. over
the Blue Mountains was interviewed by
radio at the roadside ; among the Scots
names sending messages to their families
was a Hunter’s Hill piper, Cass Mahomet.
A friend tells me that a naturalised
Russian or son of one is in the present
Sydney Scottish Regiment; of two kilted
laddies photographed dancing at last New
Year’s Day Highland sports, one had a
Scottish enough Christian-name (Bruce)
but a Germanic surname; and in the
Scottish national-dancing sections of
Grace Brothers’ Eisteddfod I notice the
surnames O’Grady, Reilly, Magennis,
O’Brien, De Luca, Healey, Fitzgerald,
Devlin, Whalan, Moore, Williams, Jones
and Rowlands.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tos”: “John o’ London” publishes
the story that Walpeup (Victoria), native-
name of the area opened for Diggers’
closer-settlement and experimental wheat,
was discovered to mean “the impression
left by the buttocks of a lubra (abo-
riginal woman) after she had sat down in
a sandy spot”.... Well enough. But
the writer continues, “The name Walpeup
was therefore changed to Bent, in honor
of the then Premier of Victoria, the late
Sir Thomas Bent”.... Strange that
Walpeup appears in all official publica-
tions, postal directory and guide, etc., as
a town within the shire of the same
name, and that there is no town in Aus-
tralia called Bent! And, by the way,
the Victorian Education Department has
not yet discovered that little Forest Hill,
in the Nunawading district, has only one
“r.” Their printed address-labels for the
local State school read “Forrest Hill.”
The only Forrest Hill in Victoria is the
“you’re wasting ink, Thomas — and, what’s more, it’s a bad likeness!”
hill on which the Tudoresque Melbourne
Boys’ High School was built, named prob-
ably after Lord (Bigjohn) Forrest.
■* ❖ ❖
“Jasby”: If “Taffy” (B. 28/1/’53)
doesn’t want to accept my derivation of
the word “jamboree,” based on
Oxford and Webster’s, surely there is no
need for him to go wandering through
the East Indies and provincial Spain or
delving among Arabic and Berber dialects
in search of an alternative? The mean-
ing of “jam” is clear enough (unless an
attempt is made to tie it up to the ruler
of an Indian princely State) and “boree”
is pure aboriginal, meaning “campfire.”
No one who has seen a mob of Boy
Scouts jam-packed around their campfire
would dispute the validity of this deriva-
tion. If anyone should, then there is the
allied abo. word “jamberoo,” meaning
“tracks.” Everyone knows that scouting
and tracking are almost synonymous.
One of Baden-Powell’s brothers was out
here in the ’eighties as A.D.C, to a
Queensland Governor. Obviously he
picked up a smattering of the aboriginal
tongue and passed it on to 8.-P.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Curtain Raiser”: Mention of Laurence
Olivier’s caustic rebuke to his cold-ridden
audience in Melbourne (B. 21 /1 / ’53)
recalls his buying Love Me Sailor in a
Melbourne bookshop to see what the
Robert Close trial. was about. In the
same shop later on the salesman asked
what he thought of it. “It’s scandalous! ”
he said. “It’s certainly an —unusual
book” the salesman began. “No,”
said Sir Laurence. “The imprisonment
of the author.”
♦ ❖ ❖
“T.C.R.”; Gavin Casey (B. 21/l/’53)
deplores the absence of variety, character
and individuality in men’s hats, and ex-
presses the pious hope that manufacturers
will turn out lids that will suit any face
or any temperament. Let us adopt a
plan used successfully by a firm that
claims to be the biggest distributors of
hats in the United States. This firm’s
slogan is “We mould your hat to suit
your face.” Wanting a hat moulded to
suit my face I walked into one of the
firm’s stores in New York, A salesman,
after asking me what color I desired,
produced the usual dome-shaped felt hat,
and with piercing, critical eyes, walked
round me making a careful study of mv
physiognomy. Then, still occasionally
surveying my countenance, he proceeded
to run a dent along the crown with his
hand and pulled the brim down in front
“Ah,” he said when I put it on. “Per-
fect!” At last I had a lid moulded to
render a peculiar face handsome; but
making an excuse to look over the’shop’
I hovered near as the salesman attended
td other customers wishing to be hat-
moulded. The same critical examination
exactly the same dent, exactly the same
lowering of the brim. And “Ah, perfect! ”
always. The moulding of the hat to suit
the wearer’s face was just so much hooey,
but it built up a trade of suckers un-
rivalled in the United States. The
Americans will fall heavily for a stunt.
When I was there the first ballpoint pen
came on the market. It was prominently
displayed in every stationer’s window,
always with the slogan “This pen will
write under water.” In the course of
two months two million were sold, and
the manufacturers of pens with nibs were
worried to such an extent that one of
them advertised widely: “This pen is
guaranteed not to write under water.”
*l* ❖
“Tandan”: It isn’t in his way of wear-
ing a slouch-hat only (B. 7/1 /’53) that an
Australian can proclaim his nationality.
I’d just dropped into the bank in the
English village when a shopkeeper came
in. “Hey, Aussie,” he said, “there’s a
lady in my shop would like to meet you.
She lived in Australia for a few months
twenty years ago. Says she picked you
as an Aussie from those Australian
clothes of yours.” It wasn’t until after
a long yarn with the lady that I realised
that everything I was wearing when she
spotted me had been bought in second-
hand shops in London.
* * ❖
“Banker’s Wife”: “I reckon you must
be sick of seeing my dial,” leered the
irrepressible old reprobate to a Hobart
police magistrate. “I won’t be seeing it
for twenty-one days,” the P.M. said
crisply. “Next case, please.”
* ❖
“Stripey”: When Chiefy, after long
deliberation, decided to renounce all
religious creeds and become an agnostic,
his request “to see the Captain through
the Commander to become an agnostic
was duly entered by the Master-at-Arms
in his book. Chiefy was then detailed to
appear as a requestman. When all was
in readiness for the session, the convert,
running a little late, slipped on a near-
top step of the after-ladder, cracking his
skull and unshipping portion of his left
ear. Regaining what was left of his com-
posure, he made the quarterdeck in time
to hear the Master-at-Arms call his name.
“What the hell happened to you?” barked
the Commander as Stripey, blood cours-
ing down his cheek, stood close-hauled
to the table. Chiefy made a breathless
and painful explanation. “Ah,” said the
Commander. “Act of God, no doubt 1.
OFF WITH THE MOTLEY
“British clowns protested that they were asked
to drive lorries, help move heavy poles and do
other manual work.”
If the British clown finds working sinister
Let him come over here
To a job as a New South Wales “Labor”
Minister —
Three-thousand smackers a year;
Workers in our State squander their
money
On men who will do them brown
So long as they make their Acts look
funny —
There’s plenty of room for a clown.
There’s ordering others to push and shove
At Sydney’s breakdown-trams,
There’s hoping that someone will make a
move
On underground railways and dams,
There’s swinging high on the basic wage
With nothing to fall upon,
There’s conjuring-up a house-mirage
On a fake foundation-stone.
There’s playing teacher in half-built
schools
To students of economy,
There’s breaking land-resumption rules \
To encourage the holders’ agronomy,
There’s throwing mud at the Federal boys.
And wonderful balancing-acts—
On the one side, money for stopping your
noise.
On the other, the right to tax.
Besides, there’s no need to dress-up and
paint,
For that all ended when
The “Labor” members put on restraint
And appeared as “businessmen” ;
Nor scholar nor science-institute.
Arguing never so hotly,
Could tell a clown in a business-suit
From a “Labor” member in motley.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Rainburnt”; Hurriedly sent out
for, the doctor rushed from the formal
function he was attending to the maternity
hospital, and arrived at the labor-ward
still in his white tie and tails. The ex-
pectant mother, in a semi-coma, took one
look and gasped “Mandrake!”
♦ ❖ *
“Composto”: Recent complaints about
newspapers’ lack of frankness remind
me of a paragraph in the last issue of
the weekly “Wilcannia Times” for 1874:
Owing to the holidays our editor has been
too drunk to write either leader or local
paragraphs. How fortunate that Christmas
comes but once a year!
Is this why certain newspapers are always
slimmer during the Christmas holidays?
♦f*
“Snid”: For the first part of the journey
to Melbourne Pam had the carriage to
herself; but after the change a bearded
clergyman took the opposite seat and
opened Judgment With Tolerance. Pam
disposed of a substantial lunch, pushed
the basket under the seat, stretched her
legs along the cushions and lit a cigarette.
At her first puff the clergyman looked up
from Judgment With Tolerance, coughed,
trained a peevish eye upon her, then
swivelled it deliberately at the top of
the window. There it blinked; un-
beknownst, he had entered a smoker.
Turning up the collar of his coat, he
opened his window wide and returned to
Judgment With Tolerance. Pam put out
her cigarette, put her feet on the floor,
slid low in her seat, and slept heavily.
The train began to hurry and rock ; Pam
was awakened by a gentle nudge to her
foot. Under the opposite seat a furtive,
shining, black object glided away. The
train started a steep climb ; three beer-
bottles, one gin-bottle and three wine-
bottles rolled from under the seat, crowd-
ing, jostling, chattering among them-
selves; then, the train coming to stop,
huddled together and disappeared under
Pam’s seat. She laughed out loud ; then
caught the eye of the clergyman, wide
with amazement. “I assure you they’re
not mine,” Pam stammered. Closing
Judgment With Tolerance, the clergyman
rose and stalked into the corridor.
♦j* -<jt
“Glen”: Mr. Paul Levy, of Toronto
(Canada), told the Ontario Opto-
metrical Association that Leonardo
da Vinci was myopic; if he had
worn glasses, the Mona Lisa would
not have had that smile. Renoir
was nearsighted ; if he had worn glasses
with a minus-50 correction his paintings
would have been less hazy. As I wander
round the galleries of monstrosities and
crude sketches labelled “modern art,” I
, wonder whether spectacles might have
improved those spectacles.
❖ ♦ ❖
“Vingter”: The only native-born
among a convivial gathering of New Aus-
tralians, I was surprised that the yarns
they told in English, out of courtesy to
me, yarns current at the time they left
their half-dozen different homelands, had
all gone the rounds of Australian capital
cities during the past few months ; I had
always thought different countries had
each a special brand of humor. More-
over, some stories by an ex-Austrian made
it clear that every risque and laughable
situation into which Dad and Dave
tumble in Australia is being encountered
in Austria by one Count Bernie. One
difference between the Count and Dad
and Dave is that Count Bernie often turns
the tables on the city slickers. A similar
twist to the Australian Dave stories
might make them more true to life.
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Irving”-; Though many John Hops
are, as “X.S.” says (B. 14/1/’53), naturally
tolerant of after-hours drinking, and not
bribe-takers, there is always the nark,
sometimes genuinely conscientious, some-
times anxious to underline the need for
protection. One who booked all the pubs
"It’s a genuine antique, madam, specially designed for
Australian conditions .”
in a country town suffered a curious acci-
dent when, moving cautiously upon the
Shearers’ Arms on a Sunday morning, he
ran into a deluge of bedroom slops
emptied over the back balcony by a
careless housemaid. In his capacity as
local health officer he successfully prose-
cuted Bung for breach of hygiene regu-
lations. But there followed a surprising
outbreak of carelessness among house-
maids, so much so that within the next
“Cut out th' tickling, Squadron-leader Jetson!”
few weeks all the other Bungs of the
town were similarly prosecuted, very
cheerfully taking the consequences.
♦J-
“Bo”: Casting up at the tiny eastern
Tasmanian village of Buckland, I pursued
an old hobby of wandering among the
churchyard tombstones. One epitaph I
chanced upon, over the grave of a nine-
month-old child who died last century,
set me to thinking how careful one should
be in the choice of words, for usage and
debasement can effect tragic twists when
viewed on marble nearly a century later.
This one read: “Here lies the grief of
a fond mother and the blasted expecta-
tions of an indulgent father.” That
father could not possibly have visualised
that his touching tribute to the mite could
many decades later be viewed in almost a
comic light, as to the two adjectives.
Anyway, how does a parent demonstrate
indulgence towards an infant?
❖ *X* ❖
“C.S.”: As an earthman who fre-
quently stands in speechless admiration
before the achievements of his
fellows in the realms of thought,
science and philosophy, I rise.to
call for loud boos against the
theory that Martians, Venusians,
Kryptonians and other inhabi-
tants of other planets—if there
be any—are centuries ahead of
us in everything. Every writer
and comic-strip perpetrator, from
H. G. Wells to Superman, alleges
that all these terrestrial
foreigners are ’way ahead of us,
and today’s younger (and even
older) generation is convinced of
it. I suppose it’s a sort of cater-
ing to the natural human desire
for something better ; personally
I see no reason to assume that
a Martian has anything on me.
There is a multitude of reasons
for this —but the chief one is
that, so far, not one of these
alleged heroes has been detected
successfully working out how
to repair an electric-toaster after
the wife has had a go at it.
♦> <* ♦>
“Clooter”; Write a successful
book and you become a sort of
benevolent society, especially for
the taxgatherer. A Sydney lady
who has just landed the bacon
in the U.S.A. on a big scale was
quizzed by reporters who
assumed she’d be rolling in
dough. She had to tell them
that it was far from what it
seemed, for after agents’ and
publishers’ fees and U.S.
income tax were deducted, she isn’t likely
to get half the sum quoted. Another
Australian author has just discovered the
truth of this. Between March and Sep-
tember last year his book grossed (cinema
rights included) £3911. But fees, com-
missions and U.S. taxes (the U.S.A. takes
30 p.c, of a foreign author’s gross)
accounted for £1730 of it; £BOO-odd of
that, or nearly half, was U.S. income-tax.
That author feels he has made a heavy
contribution to the defence of the free
nations.
♦♦♦ ♦> ♦♦♦
“The Missus”: When there is no serial,
quiz or song-popularity-session on the
radio, the kids turn back to 24D, Russell-
street police station, Melbourne—and no
doubt to corresponding stations in other
capitals—and follow its constant natter-
ing at mobile traffic, police and patrol-
cars. Though the police-service is two-
way, only the voice at the headquarters
mike can be heard by the general public ;
but the kids are adept at piecing together
the half-drama they hear ; they reckon
it’s as good as a whodunit, and rush
next day’s paper to see how close their
guesses were.
❖ ❖ *
“X.Q.X.”: Like “Becks” (B. 7/1/’53),
I experienced field-rank. And it cost
money. On leave in Brisbane in 1942, I
ordered a Waterproof canvas sleeping-bag.
Soon afterwards we were sent to Milne
Bay, where the bag would have been
useful, but before it arrived an enterpris-
ing Jap gave me my ticket back to Bris-
bane. When I was able to get around a
bit I called on the sleeping-baggers—the
only clue they could give me was that they
had expanded “Bdr.” into “Brigadier.”
Well, let the Brig, sleep in my bag in the
cold and mud (I hoped)—l had clean
sheets in the con. depot.
“H.W.M.”: Reference to The New
Science of Surgery by Frank G.
Slaughter (B. 14/1/’53) reminds me that
the maiden-name of the author of A
Woman Surgeon, published in 1937, was
Rosalie Slaughter. Melbourne telephone-
directory lists Dr. Hurt. Dr. William
Henry Cutts was an early member of
Melbourne University Council. Dr. Irving
Cutter of Chicago wrote a series of articles
for the Chicago “Tribune” on “How to
Keep Well,” but died while they were
running; and one of Victoria’s early
medical men advertised that he had just
come from London, where he had been
many years assistant to Dr. Coffin.
♦ ❖ ❖
“40 Q.”: A Swede who has lived in
Australia for a good many years, but
whose pronunciation becomes worse, was
complaining about the people who rent
the flat beneath his home on a Queens-
land surfing beach. “Zey never use ze
shower when zey come in from zeir
swim,” he said. “Zey walk round ze
house in zeir swimsuits, and zen zey sit
in ze bath and scratch ze animal.”
“Scratch the animal! ” we echoed. “What
sort of animal?” “Why, ze green animal
of ze bath,” he replied.
NEW STYLE
“The old style of proposal may seem to us
today rather ridiculous, yet at least it had a
bloom of romance and gracefulness about it
which the modern casual approach totally lacks.”
— Women's paper .
When Romance was in flower
{And, in fact, overblown)
A lover s proposal was something.
In a dimly-lit bower
Where they’d be all alone,
She silent—that must sound a rum
thing !
On his knees he’d get down
To proclaim to the dame
The exquisite pain of his passion.
He’d look quite a clown
( Wouldn’t you look the same ?),
But he did it, for then ’twas the
fashion.
Reckoning nought of his pants,
He would ask her to wed.
She’d look quite astonished, though
really
They were not there by chance,
For the way she had led.
But the little stunt worked — oh,
ideally.
For her “hand” he’d then ask
Oj papa, as a boon
{Who’d with seeming reluctance
bestow her
While endeavoring to mask
His elation that soon
Every hill in the house would be
lower).
Love’s avowal, expressed
With an ardor white-hot.
In these days, of cdurse, is archaic. ■
Youth is so self-possessed,
And Love’s nothing if not
Unimaginative and prosaic.
Near some jeweller’s shop
Take your stand, and you'll hear,
If you’ll be sufficiently heedful,
As Eve comes to a stop :
“See that ring ? Go on, dear,
Make a lay-by — yes, I’ve got the
needful.”
S. W. K.


N
%
*
Sure Starts
£xiie
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
EX1.26
PERSONAL ITEMS
Visiting Melbourne, Merari Dickson,
the first Papuan appointed to the Papua-
New Guinea Legislative Council. He
has been representing his country at the
Asian assembly for moral rearmament in
Colombo and at Delhi. To emphasise the
difference between the Papuans of a few
years back and those who are ready to
give their savings to send a delegation to
an oversea conference, he mentioned that
his grandfather took the heads of his
enemies and his great-grandfather ate
them. The visitor himself was helpfully
in at the Milne Bay stoushing.
“Macnell” on a sub.-killer:
Sydneysider Stanley Darling, attached hereto,
appointed captain in the Royal Australian
Naval Reserve, thus becomes the first Aus-
tralian Rocky officer to get four rings. Darling
was a small-ship man, and still looks it —in
build, casual friendliness and weather-tan,
though this last stems from a more peaceable
pursuit, he having recently returned from navi-
gating Solveig in the Hobart yacht race, his
sixth. The new captain rates three D.S.C.s, all
won in command of frigate Loch Killin in the
South-West Approaches and English Channel.
Attached to the famed Second Escort Group led
by Commander Walker (which got six U-boats
on one convoy), Darling got his first gong in
July, 1944—U-boat. The Loch ship got her
“ping,” let go, and surfaced, in a boiling mael-
strom, German clothing (which could have been
loosed from a torpedo-tube) and certain German
DARLING, of Loch Killin
anatomical parts (which could not). The Bar
came the following month —U-boat again,
crippled by depth-charges, bumping up un-
controllably against the attacker’s hull.
Prisoners this time. Darling had to wait eight
months for his next kill —“we just sort of came
up on it, let go, and sort of sank it.” This
competence in asdic work was probably born
of his being mixed up with acoustics with the
A.B.C. pre-war. Now he’s the commission’s
technical supervisor in Sydney, liaising with the
P.M.G. and Works and Housing on studio
facilities and suchlike. Hailing originally from
Hobart, he’s been in the Reserve for over 30
years.
Due for his Doctorate of Medicine at
Sydney University today, Kenneth Beeson
Noad, for a thesis on Tsutsugamushi
fever—translated for New Guinea
Diggers, scrub-typhus. The new Dr.
practised in the Western Desert and
Greece before easting to New Guinea,
where he had more than Sufficient oppor-
tunity to study his thesis-subject. He
took his M.B. and Ch.M. from Sydney
University in 1924, and has since served
in most of the city’s hospitals as well as
at a couple in London.
There was a unique touch about the
Australia Day celebrations at Frankston
(Vic.), inasmuch as the flag-raising cere-
mony on the beach this year was shared
by a very old and a very New Australian.
The N.A. was Danute Garbenis, a recent
migrant, the O.A. was Harry McComb,
whose parents hoisted the flag where they
pioneered the district in 1851, living in
a tent until they bought a block at the
town’s first land-sale and built a house
which is still in the hands of the family
The present descendant is 91. Danute is
a 14-year-old Lithuanian girl.
After five weeks in Korea, Wing-
Commander John Hubble gets command
of the Australian Double-seven Squadron.
From Guildford (W.A.) Grammar School
he went straight into the R.A.A.F. in
1942, and sprouted wings the following
year. He won A.F.C. and a mention in
the Pacific air-fighting.
Unusual recognition of his work as
chief of the Melbourne Workingmen’s
College (now the Tech.) has come the
way of Frank Ellis, former principal
for 25 years. He’s been offered the job
of technical-training adviser to the new
Gyppo Government —result of a recom-
mendation from the International Labor
Organisation at Geneva. The Cairo
crowd wants an overall development of
vocational-training policies and pro-
grammes, and technical aid in labor
matters. Ellis, a born organiser, saw the
Melbourne Tech, grow into its present
huge dimensions at the expense of the
old Melbourne jail. He trained technical
personnel of the armed services in War 11.
Born in Adelaide and educated at Prince
Alfred’s, he’s 66,
C. T. Scarff, Deputy-Director of Vic-
torian Education, due for retirement, has
had half a century in the teaching busi-
ness and still believes in the examination
system. His most brilliant pupil during
his teaching period was, in his opinion.
Dr. John Eccles, a high-school product
who became a Rhodes Scholar and a
world authority on brain-surgery. The
retiring director has seen the secondary-
school system grow from tiny beginnings
at the start of the century to a flourishing
show of 154 high schools and 40,000
pupils.
Succeeding “Daddy” Brind as C.-in-C.
of Allied naval forces in northern Europe
(Brind retaining the other barrel of his
dual part, Supreme Commander of Allied
Forces), Vice-Admiral Edward Evans
Lombe, R.N., held down the important
job of Chief of Staff, Eastern Battle Fleet
(1944) and a similar berth with the British
Pacific Fleet from that year till after the
war. An earlier post indicates his par-
ticular trade, likely to be useful if the
alarms ring—in the middle of the war he
was director of the Admiralty’s gunnery-
division.
One of Great Britain’s best-known
stud-beef cattlemen, Geoffrey Griffiths,
of Temple Court, Bosbury, Herefordshire,
will judge Hereford cattle at this year’s
Sydney Royal. Son of internationally-
known Hereford breeder H. R. Griffiths,
of Little Tarrington, Hereford, by whom
he was trained before establishing his own
stud in 1938 with Tarrington cows at
Temple Court, Griffiths has bred a
number of show-ring champion Herefords
and has wide administrative experience in
the Hereford herd-book society. Bulls
bred by him twice won the February
championship at the Hereford herd-book
society’s show and sales in 1943 and 1949.
His bulls also sired the 1948, 1949 and
1950 champions at the same show ; and
sires of the 1949 and 1951 Rpyal Show
of England male champions Were from
his stud. After his Australian visit he
will judge Herefords at this year’s Royal
Show of England.
New president of the South African
Veterans’ Association in Westralia, Alf
Yeates has worn khaki in four wars.
Born in Kent (Eng.) 78 years ago, he
joined the Royal Artillery at 16, and
served at Gibraltar and in North-west
India before shifting to S. Africa in 1899,
with the siege-train which was to have
reduced the forts at Pretoria. Then China,
to help settle the Boxer Rising, and return
with his battery to the veldtj where he
served for the rest of Kruger’s war. Since
his arrival in Westralia in 1912, he has
been vineyarding, when not interrupted
by more wars. His service against the
Kaiser, as R.S.M. of the 44th Battalion,
ended’in 1918, when he was invalided
after a severe wounding at V filer s-
Bretonneux. In the Hitler scrap Yeates
wore a captain’s pips, on censorship and
other staff work. More peaceful jobs took
in nine years as R.S.L. State president,
W.A. representative for 14 years on the
Commonwealth Dried Fruits Control
Board, and chairman of the royal com-
mission on Group Settlement and Dairy-
ing in 1932. He was awarded the 0.8. E.
in 1938.
The breed still lives. Totally-blind,
Kenneth Brunton has been appointed to
the teaching staff of Pulteney-street
Grammar School in Adelaide. He lost
his eyesight at 14 in a mine explosion at
Wonthaggi (Vic.), and with the aid of
the Blind Institute subsequently gained
his Leaving Certificate, then his B.A.
degree and Diploma of Education at Mel-
bourne University.
“Uramao”: Britain’s new High Com-
missioner in New Zealand, General Sir
Geoffry Scoones, in 1942 commanded the
19th Indian Division and later the
4th Corps, his job to plug Japanese
aggression on the 400-mile Burma-Assam
border. One of four commanders who
made history on the Burma front, he was
knighted simultaneously with the others.
Sir William Slim being one of the quartet.
The new H.C. had 34 years in the Indian
Army, and was awarded 0.8. E. for his
work in the earthquake at Quetta.
Some vears ago, a Bulletin man stopping
over in Tennant Creek (N.T.) visited a small
travelling circus which was doing likewise.
The tent-show featured, among other things, a
handy young pug. who was willing, ready and
eager to take on any of the local boys. One
local boy, a nuggety, powerful, sunburned miner,
was also very w., r. and e. and, going in like
a scientific bulldozer, dropped the circus champ,
in seconds flat.
The winner was A 1 MacDonald, who carried
his swag into Tennant in 1931; he arrived in
Sydney the other day driving his new Packard
and also owning an 1800-square-mile cattle-
station and sundry mining and other profitable
interests. A New Zealander, MacDonald came
to Australia in the early 1920’5, did a fair bit of
boxing from Queensland right around to Car-
narvon on the Westralian coast, and inland to
Meekatharra. Then he moved up to parts
around Broome and Derby, where, with the de-
pression in full swing, he lived off fishing and
beachcombing until he headed for the Tennant.
There he kicked off with the Black Angel,
sold a half-interest in it for £250, worked it for
a while to show what it was worth, and then
sold the other half for £3OOO. The Edna Beryl
was his next show, and from that auriferous lady
he won something over £40,000. When the
Government batteries closed at the Tennant,
he went about 70 miles south-east to Mosquito
Creek, to uncover a scheelite reef on which he
has given an option for £25,000. In between
times, MacDonald married, raised a family,
organised four Rugby League football-teams in
MacDONALD, of the Tennant
Tennant and won the heavyweight championship
of the N.T. —he . still looks a very promising
customer for an argument.
MacDonald made the current trip to Sydney
with Tom English, who, with two others, found
the Whippet mine, at Tennant, took a fortune
in gold out of it and then sold it for another
fortune. The two of them are taking back to
Tennant with them a diamond-drilling outfit
capable of probing 800 feet into the earth at a
rate of 25 feet a day and at a cost of about
£2 a foot. It will, they reckon, tell them most
of what’s worth knowing about ore-bodies in
those parts.
Galfrey George Gatacre (cantain
R.A.N.; in battleship Rodney when she
came up with Bismarck; staff-officer
operations in the s.-w. Pacific; driver of
destroyer Arunta at the close of War II •
now the same in Anzac at Korea) goes
to Washington, naval attache. His
speciality is navigation, which he’ll hardly
need in Washington, where streets are
straight.
JAMES HENRY SCULLIN,
as Finey knew him
There have been only two honorary
colonels of the Royal Australian En-
gineers The first was Brigadier-General
Foott, Chief Engineer of the Australian
Corps in France in War I; the second,
appointed the other day, is Major-General
Clive Selwyn Steele, Chief Engineer of
the Ist Australian Army Corps in the
Middle East in War 11. Steele won M.C.
in the Kaiser’s show, and in 1941 added
D.S.O. by saving a situation at the
Pharsala Bridge, Greece, when a bomb
exploded a truck of ammonal and the
Stukas did their vertical best to take
advantage of the resultant confusion.
Born in Melbourne, he’s a consulting-
engineer in civil life (winner of Melbourne
University’s Kermot Memorial Medal for
1944), and director of half a dozen Mel-
bourne companies,
James Henry Scullin once spoke from
the same platform as Ramsay MacDonald,
later British P.M. Scullin was seeking
political honors for the first time, fighting
Deakin for the Ballarat seat. Ramsay
visited Ballarat as leader of England’s
new Independent Socialist party, but his
eloquence couldn’t swing the vote for
Scullin, then a small grocer.
Into the Silence;
At 77, in Melbourne, Professor Ernest Will-
ington Skeats, D.Sc., A.R.C.S., F.G.S., Professor
of Geology and Mineralogy at Melbourne Uni-
versity between 1904 and 1941. His researches
on the mineral and petrological composition ot
coral limestone and the origin of volcanic rocks
in Victoria earned him considerable distinction
overseas, as well as the Clarke Medal of the
Royal Society of N.S.W. and the Mueller Medal.
In Perth, at 72, Samuel Totterdell, retired
master-builder. An elder brother of Perth’s new
knight and Lord Mayor, he was the third
master-builder to be registered in the State.
In Hobart, at 65, Carrel Inglis Clark, clerk of
the Legislative Council since 1946, and for 27
years before that Usher of the Black Rod in the
same House. A student of State and Parlia-
mentary history, he published a Historical
Sketch of Parliament in Tasmania, in 1947, and
left another historical work unfinished. Tire
Hare-Clark electoral system commemorates the
family name —his father helped introduce it in
Tasmania.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 88, Dr. Heinrich
Ferdinand Von Haast, eldest son of Sir Julius
Von Haast, an Austrian migrant who became
New Zealand’s most noted geologist. Born m
Christchurch, the doctor was called to the Bar
at Lincoln’s Inn, and for a time practised m
Victoria. One of the ablest authorities in con-
stitutional practice in New Zealand, he was a
Shakspearian enthusiast, member of the Royal
Institute of International Affairs, ex-chairman
of Victoria College and pro-chancellor of N.Z.
University Senate. Further monument to his
industry is his Life and Times of Sir Julius
Von Haast.


dfg
mm
\\mJ[
#
IT AIN’T JUST BEARDS AND CORDUROY TROUSERS EITHER!


ABORIGINALITIES
“J.E.8.”: New Guinea houseboys
prefer to work for bachelors, from whom
they get less supervision and no stand-
over tactics. Returning to Rabaul from
leave in Sydney, I placed a
photo of my fiancee on the
dressing-table. Next day my
houseboy. Rani, pointed to the
picture and asked suspiciously,
“Missus b’long you, master?”
“No,” I replied, “but soon will
be.” Rani clucked his tongue
and shook his head in disap-
proval. Later he made a confi-
dential approach. “Master,” he
said, “more better missus
b’long you stop long Sydney.
S’pose she come long New
Guinea house, she mak’um
plenty trouble.” I demanded to
know what trouble. “You savvy
plenty, master,” said Rani win-
ningly. “S’pose you talk, ‘Rani,
you clean ’um boots, you
mak’um wash-wash long
clothes, you mak’um plenty
good kai icai,’ you talk one-time—finish!
Me savvy plenty! Me mak’um ev’ry
t’ing Number One. S’pose missus she
come long New Guinea house, she aller-
time talk-talk, ‘Rani, you work fashion
b’long me. No smoke long kitchen,
plenty times you wash-wash long
face, hands b’long you. Every day you
tak’um big swim long saltwater.’ Missus
b’long you, master, allertime yabba yabba
long some ting. Talk-talk, yap-yap aller-
time, no bloody good. S’pose missus
b’long you come long New Guinea, Rani
he go back long village.”
“Old-timer”: My first introduction to
the old station happened on a Wednesday.
1 was shown the hut, dumped the gear
there, got into working togs and joined
the hands who, with the boss, were putting
in time doing odd jobs in and around
the woolshed. Halfway through
the morning the boss told me,
“Go over to the homestead, ring
Medley’s pub in town and ask
Fleming if he’s going to stay
there all day.” Presently I came
back. “Couldn’t get Fleming. A
bloke named McGinty or some-
thin’ said t’ tell y’ Corky James
is in town.” This message,
though a mystery to me, seemed
to explain everything. It had,
too, a strange effect. Even the
boss’s mind didn’t seem to be
on the work. Little Curl, Pocket-
knife, the cook —all strangers to
me then—were restless and
abstracted. We had dinner,
work was resumed. Then 1
noticed the hands apparently
waiting for something. It came
about 2.15 p.m. The boss put
his hammer on a post and said
“Well, we might as well be in it.
I’ll get the car. You blokes get
ready.” There was a rush to the
hut, hurried shaves, washing and
dressing. “Who,” I asked, “is
this Corky James?” “Whisky-
traveller for Brewars,” said Little
Curl. “Was a sheep-nurse him-
self once. So pleased with him-
self now every time he comes through he
turns it on for the mob.” Too right, they
were good old days.
“Stanford”: Barham (N.S.W.), that
modest little town on the Murray, must
have the only shop which retails nothing
but honey. With a window-display of
cups, trophies and certificates won at
agricultural shows all over Australia, its
interior reveals “honeypots, honeypots,
all in a row”—every size and shape,
from one-pound jars to 60-pound tins.
Very good honey it is, too, locally farmed
and justly famous.
* * * $
“Phil Anthus”: In his interesting
reminiscences of old Jimbour (B.
31/12 / ’52) G. H. Routley got off the
track in stating that Dennis and Scougall
were owners of the station when Leich-
hardt arrived there in 1844, and that
Dennis accompanied the explorer for
two days on his journey. Three diaries
written by members of that expedition
are available —the printed one by Leich-
hardt and the manuscript journals of
John Gilbert and William Phillips—and
not one of them contains any reference
to Dennis. Moreover, Leichhardt makes
it clear that Thomas Bell was the lord
of the manor in September of 1844 ; he
emphasises that he was much indebted
to Bell for various acts of kindness. Nor
was die 1844 expedition Leichhardt’s
“ Don't mind pulling over, but how do I stop it ?”
“last and fatal” journey ; it was, in fact.
the German adventurer’s first and only
successful one. His last and fatal journey
began (from a point farther west) three
and a half years later. Incidentally, in
stating that Dennis secured Myall Creek
for “a Mr. Charles Coxen,” the article
overlooks the fact that Coxen had the
distinction of being responsible for the
Australian visit of his famous brother-
in-law, John Gould, the birdman, and
also the fact that in later years Coxen
himself became Queensland's outstanding
naturalist-c Mm-politician. A member of
the first Parliament of Queensland, Coxen
became chairman of committees in the
second Parliament, and in that time he
wrote informed articles on ornithology,
geology, marsupials and aborigines, as
well as rendering useful service in various
other directions. He died, at 67, in 1876.
C. C. Dixon: The second instalment of
“Old Jimbour” (B. 7/l/’53) mentions
the death of Sir Joshua Peter Bell in a
hansom-cab. The friend referred to in
the cab with him was my father, the
late Joseph Black Dixon, who, in 1881,
“Make up your mind—the Egg Board or me!”
was manager of the Bank of Australasia
in Brisbane
♦ * * *
“Composto”: One pub I always have
difficulty in passing is the Belair Hotel,
which lies half-way between Belair and
Blackwood (S.A.). The reason for my
downfall is the appeal painted in bold
black letters on the horse-trough outside
the pub. It reads “Give Your Horse a
Drink and Have Two Yourself.”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Shamuseen”: Following reports that
many of Melbourne's New Australians
are beating the cost of living by grazing
systematically on luxuriant weed crops
in vacant allotments, Professor R. Patton,
former lecturer in agricultural botany at
Melbourne University, has warned that
hemlock and St. John’s wort are but two
of the lethal crops flourishing in Victoria.
Said the professor, “People in many
European countries, thrown on their
natural resources more than we are, know
which weeds are edible, but I wouldn’t
advise inexperienced Australians to try
it.” One of the first to resent the warning
is a vegetarian watersider, a native of
Melbourne, who claims to have subsisted
comfortably for most of his life on local
dock, dandelions, purslane and lamb’s-
quarter, supplementing the diet with the
exotic European importations, sow- and
Scotch-thistles, fennel and stinging-
nettles. Still, the professor’s warning is
timely.
“Physio”: I was treating an old bush-
man’s swollen knee with infra-red rays,
massage, etc. A few days after I’d started
I went into the cubicle to meet an appall-
ing stench. I asked him what on earth
he was using. “Goanna-oil, Miss. Best
thing on earth for this sort of thing.”
I told him he could choose between the
oil and orthodox treatment, but I could
not tolerate both. “You mustn’t use any
oils and liniments while you’re coming
here,” I said. A week went by without
incident, and then another patient called
me to report a fuse or something equally
odoriferous. I knew where to go. “You
said no oils or liniments, Miss, so I
haven’t touched ’em. This is goose-grease
—wonderful stuff.”
* * * *
“Wiipa”: It’s about time some
journalists realised that our aborigines
aren’t nomads. The fully tribalised abo,
was far less a nomad than is the average
commercial traveller. He did not roam
over the countryside at random; instead,
except for very rare and very special
occasions, he stayed in his own tribal
grounds and moved along defined routes,
following traditional paths from sacred
site to sacred site, with his year laid out
in a pattern of religious ceremonies—
which fitted in with the suitability of
food-gathering in different districts at
different seasons of the year. The
member of a small tribe would possibh
never move more than 15 miles from his
birthplace. If he did go on a trading
or ceremonial journey through the lands
of other tribes he would do so with an
elaborate ritual of ceremonies and
courtesies, and would be careful not to
move aside from the trade-route or
pilgrim path that custom decreed he
should follow.
* * * *
“D.T.”; Biological research has shown
that some “electric” fish have a less
aggressive use for their volts than has
Torpedo vulgaris (B. 31 /12 / ’52). A West
African specimen, Gymnarchus niloticus,
not only has a peculiar swimming-action
equally effective backwards or forwards,
but also possesses an uncanny ability to
avoid obstacles while going astern. A
weak electric organ in its tail suggested
a search for electrical signals in the water
in its vicinity-—they were duly found to
exist as regular pulses being emitted at a
frequency dependent on water tempera-
ture. The fact that the fish was sensitive
in some way to electrical changes in its
surroundings was demonstrated by picking
up its pulses, amplifying them and feed-
ing them back at a distance into the
tank. The fish sought out and violently
attacked the electrodes. From which it
appears that the fish carries a radar-
receiver as well as a transmitter, but no
I.F.F.
* * * *
“C.A.L.”: The bravery and stamina of
the rescue parties who worked the clock
around to recover the bodies of two mates
caught in a fall underground at North-
hampton (W.A.) reminded me of another
case. A miner working at the bottom
of a 100 ft. winze lit up and stepped into
the kibble to be hoisted to the level. The
air-supply failed and, with it, the hoist
driving the winding-gear. With nine fuses
burning and no ladder to make his
escape, he would have been blown and
smashed to bits had not his mate, a big
Yugoslav, grasped with his bare hanch
the half-inch steel rope and hauled the
iron kibble and the 12st. man up the
100 ft. of vertical winze. Fumes from
the burning fuses choked his lungs and
blinded his eyes, and when his human
load was at last safe on the brace, he
collapsed on the level fighting for breath
and with hands a pulped and bloody mess.
MORGAN
When Morgan crossed the Murray to Peechclba
and doom
A sombre silent shadow rode with him through
the gloom.
The wild things of the forest slunk from the
outlaw’s track,
The boobook croaked a warning, “Go back,
go back, go back!”
It woke no answering echo in Morgan’s
blackened soul,
As onward through the darkness he rode towards
his goal.
An evil man was Morgan, a price was on his
head;
The simple bush-folk whispered his very name
with dread;
Before the fierce Dan Morgan the bravest man
might quake—
A cold and callous killer, he killed for killing’s
sake.
Past swamp and creek and gully, and settlers’
lone abode,
Towards the station homestead the grim Dan
Morgan rode.
And still that hooded horseman that Morgan
could not see.
Watched by the wild bush-creatures, rode close
beside his knee.
Before them in a clearing a drover’s campfire
burned:
The phantom rode with Morgan, and turned
when Morgan turned.
And loud the boobook’s warning came on the
cold night air,
“Go back, go back, Dan Morgan. Beware, be-
ware, beware!”
He reached the- station homestead; into the
hall he strode,
And on his evil features the flickering lamp-
light glowed.
“Into one room!” he thundered. “Bring me a
glass of grog!
If any disobey me I’ll shoot him like a dog!”
With pistols cocked and ready, dark-eyed and
beetle-browed—
Before the famous outlaw the bravest hearts
were cowed.
All night with loaded pistols he dozed and
muttered there.
All night the evil shadow stood close beside
his chair.
The brave Scotch girl McDonald, a lass who
knew no fear,
Slipped out unseen by Morgan to warn the
homesteads near.
And in the hours of darkness, before the break
of dawn,
Around the fierce Dan Morgan, the fatal net
was drawn.
Day broke upon the Murray, the morning mists
were gone,
The magpies sang their matins, the river mur-
mured on.
When Morgan left the homestead and neared
the stockyard gate
He heard the boobook’s warning, and turned
but turned too late —
For Quinlan pressed the trigger as Morgan
swung around,
And sent the grim bushranger blaspheming to
the ground.
So fell the dread Dan Morgan in eighteen-sixty-
five,
In death as much unpitied as hated when
alive.
He lived by blood and plunder, an outlaw to
the end;
In life he showed no mercy, in death he left no
friend.
And all who seek to follow in Morgan’s evil
track
Should heed the boobook’s warning; “Go back,
go back, go back!”
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


“Stweeler”: After a hundred years of
steam navigation of the Murray and allied
waters the people of Mannum (S.A.) have
realised the absurdity of S.A. not having
any memorial to the pioneer skippers,
such as William Randell and Francis
Cadell, whose work called such towns as
MannUm into existence. A committee,
with George Truss for secretary —he’s
well known along the river for his en-
thusiastic collecting of river-lore—hopes
to collect a large enough sum to give the
pioneers of the river-trade a fitting
memorial.
* * * *
“A.L.D.”: Anyone recall a Spaniard
named Louis (presumably Luis) Williams
who flourished around WestraJia’s nor’-
west in the early 1890’s? He had a small
boat which he could not handle, that
job being left to his Chinese henchman.
Sometimes the pair of them quarrelled
and the fiery Louis would throw his
partner overboard ; the Pat would swim
doggedly after the boat until the Spaniard
realised he could not handle it alone and
threw out a rope. I often wondered about
a Spaniard owning the Welsh surname
of Williams until I read an account of
a visit to Jerez, headquarters of the sherry
industry, where several of the leading
sherry-houses were of British origin
though long-established in Spain, and,
through intermarriage, of mainly, Spanish
“Has it occurred to you the difference an avenue of Norfolk Island
pines Would make?”
blood. One of those Anglo-Spanish
families was sumamed Williams, so per-
haps Louis was a scion of it who had
drifted to Westralia.
“A/rn+’o a u
i„ c,mn ?m as a fla ifu
' ca ™? ke P‘° n If 1 "* y? r "
f! ,n 6 w : ? a ’
LS" 11° a g,rl u .. W t S Wa u
service-car going down t Inverell one
night. There’s the driver, me, two other
blokes an’ this girl. Bright sort, too ; full
of go. Well, it’s rainin’ like blue hell an’
the car got slewed or somethin’ an’ we
finish up bogged t’ the axles in blue mud.
The four of us get out an’ try t’ shift her,
with this girl revvin’ the motor up, but
it’s no good. We see a light through the
rain an’ head for it, me an’ the driver
makin’ a seat with our hands an’ carryin’
the girl. We was wet through an’ cold,
but she kept laughin’ an’ chiackin’ us.
When we get t’ the light it’s a one-room
hut. There’s a old bloke an’
his two sons camped there.
Fencers, they was. They got a
roarin’ fire goin’ an’ a bucket o’
tea an’ pretty soon we’re dried
out an’ feelin’ good. They got
no tackle for bogged cars an’
the rain’s peltin’ down, so the
only thing is t’ stay there the
night. A couple of the blokes
start gettin’ ideas about the girl
an’ she goes sort o’ quiet. Y’
see, she’s goin’ t’ be in that hut
all night with seven blokes.”
Mat paused. The flash bloke
was all ears. “Well,” Mat went
on, “she took one o’ the fencer’s
bunks an’ the rest of us stayed
round the fire an’ got a doss best
way we could. Come mornin’
—now here’s the funny part of
it—the old fencer says, ‘All we
got is cold meat an’ pickles an’
one egg. Who gets the egg?’
An’ every bloke there says t’ give
it t’ the girl.” Mat turned to
the flash bloke. “It proved
what I’ve always thought,” he
said. The flash bloke could
hardly wait. “What?” he says. “It
proved,” Mat said, “that seven out of
every eight’ll eat pickles with cold meat
if they can get ’em.”
* * * *
“N.W.T.”: I don’t know the record
depth for a post-hole, but, according to
the Tamworth (N.S.W.) “Northern Daily
Leader,” they sink ’em pretty deep in
those parts:
WANTED —Contractor to sink post-holes
up to 5 miles.
* * * *
“North-5-West”: “Riding the rods”
means one thing in the U.S.A.; in the
old days of Australian mining it meant
something even more risky. The “rod”
connected the engine at the surface with
a pump at the bottom of the shaft; speed,
about eight strokes per minute ; length
of stroke about 6ft. Procedure was to
step on to a coupling at bottom of the
stroke and step off onto a timber at the
top of stroke. Then wait one stroke,
and ditto repeato to the surface. The
attraction was that it enabled the young
fellows to call on their sheilas during
afternoon-shift (four-to-midnight) with-
out losing time—one could make the sur-
face without being seen by the shift-boss.
“Alsace”; There was one item missing
from that list of gear packed by enthusi-
astic picnickers and weekenders (B.
14/1/’53). With our hydroelectric scheme
in Tasmania, electricity extends into every
little bay, seaside and camping resort,
80 first thing that goes on the back
o£ th " ‘™ k »r into the trailer is the
refrigerator. Which makes it a wonderful
holid "y for everyone except the poor
coots »bo have to load and unload it
* * ♦ ♦
“Bogaduck”: The Merino’s liking for
high ground (B. 14/1 / ’53) goes very far
back. Nearly all our present-day breeds
of sheep originated in European mountain
regions. Apart from man, their main
enemy was the wolf. No sheep could
hope to run away from wolves on level
going, but it was a different'story on the
rocks and crags. Just as sure-footed as
their first cousin, the goat, wild sheep
always raced for mugged country when
“ Autograph-hunters , by gad!”
danger threatened. Once on the boulders,
the creature with hoofs could usually
escape from those with paws. An ex-
ample is still found today in the wild
big-horn sheep of the Rocky Mountains,
U.S.A. His agility rivals that of a grass-
hopper, There are several similar sur-
vivals in other domesticated animals.
Horses shy because it was their way of
dodging the lion or leopard crouching in
wait. Bucking was their way of trying
to dislodge a predator which had sprung
on their back. The dog still turns around
a few times before lying down because
his wild ancestors did it to make a nest
in the grass.
“Youanmi”: There is a connection be-
tween the sheep’s predilection for high
ground and its four stomachs. In the
prehistoric wayback most ruminants were
faced with the problem that the plains,
where grew the most succulent herbage,
were also inhabited by the most savage
carnivora. With its infallible habit of
maintaining the balance of things, Nature
provided an ingenious solution by equip-
ping the ruminants with the four-stomach
arrangement which survives today. They
were thus able to snatch a quick fill of
grass on the plains, bolt for the hills and
there regurgitate, masticate and digest in
comparative safety.
* * * *
“H.A-L-”: Three swaggies came across
a broken-down lorry loaded with empty
casks destined for a distillery at one of
the Murray irrigation settlements. Two
of them sighed regretfully as they looked
at the empty casks, but the third was
hopeful. “I used to work at a distillery.
They always leave about half a pint of
brandy in ’em to keep the cask from
dryin’ out.” Sure enough, they got about
a teacup of brandy from each barrel.
Next morning I came along and saw the
lorrydriver and a garage mechanic bend-
ing over three prone forms. “Accident?”
I asked. “No—alcoholic poisoning,”
snorted the driver, pointing to the tumbled
load on the stalled truck. “The stuff
left in those casks is overproof to hell.”
They finished up in hospital, but I bet
the story lasted them for years.
* * * *
“Rann”: Fishing off Manly (N.S.W.)
wharf the other night I was advised by
all and sundry to cast as close as possible
to the amusement-pier across the water.
After changing my gear five times and
doing about four-bob’s-worth of prawns,
was about to give it away when an old
chap sat down beside me and threw his
line about sft. out. I passed on the
advice. “Don’t you believe it,” he said.
“Thirty years ago we used to fish from
the amusement-pier and they all used to
tell us to throw across to this wharf.”
He caught one bream, said “Enough for
breakfast” and left within 10 minutes of
his arrival.
* * # *
“Eek”: Show-time, and Skinner’s-
alley was packed with people from a
hundred miles around, all pushing and
shoving to see the sleeping-beauty, the
tattooed woman, the Siamese-twins, per-
forming-fleas and freaks of all descrip-
tions. It was also raining like the devil
and the sleeping-beauty’s tent began to
leak —drip, drip, drip, right on to the
poor woman herself, who, according to
the spruiker, had been asleep for 20 years.
The youngster who had been sitting like
a statue at the bedsidfe heard her whisper,
“Get Dad,” and dashed off down the
alley. Dad, unfortunately, was in trouble
himself. Dart of the stage around his
“wild man” having collapsed. He was
swearing, hammering and tying ropes
around props. “Tell her I can’t come —■
I’m too busy,” he shouted. The youngster
delivered the message in a whisper to the
sleeping-beauty, who awoke, violently,
and yelled, “Too busy! I’ll give him
too busy. Me stuck here wet to the skin
and he can’t leave that dirty tramp he
picked up on the roadside.” She snatched
a gorgeous gown from a safety-pin on
the tent wall and rushed off down the
alley to tell her husband some home-
truths, leaving the unfortunate spruiker to
explain a miracle to the multitude.
* * * ♦
“S.”: I don’t know who built the punt
that was working in Wilcannia in 1890
(B. 14/1/’53), but when the floods came
down that year the river was 10 miles
wide and the punt went out of action.
The mailman is said to have risen above
the crisis. He got a small punt, fixed
four buggy-wheels on it, harnessed four
horses abreast, and crossed with that.
In the deeper parts the horses swam ; in
the shallows they splashed along with
the buggy-wheels running behind and
supporting the mailman, the mails and
the punt.
* * * *
WORKING DOGS
The scathing criticism by the judge of
the dogs competing at the last Sydney
Show must be accepted, coming from
one so well qualified to speak, as far as
sheep-trial dogs are concerned.
But there is a wide gulf between trial
clogs and dogs
working on the
runs, roads and
about the yards.
Trial dogs are
trained to handle
three sheep only ; working dogs as many,
or more, thousands. Whilst the trial dog
usually works alone, the workers when
handling big mobs must know team-work
—the “lead” dogs steadying the lead, the
“wing” dogs holding left and right in
bounds but allowing sufficient spread for
the flock to feed as they go, while the
“rearguard” keeps the “tail” up (and,
tethered under the wagon, the “reserves”
strain on their chains in their eagerness
to be in it).
Each dog under perfect control, un-
erringly answering every signal whether
by his master’s hand or whistle. A good
“trial” dog handling three unruly sheep
earns the applause of the show crowd,
but a team of good dogs handling a
hungry mob on the track is a sight never
to be forgotten.
Regarding the breed, the border collie
is favored for
show trials and
farm - work f
being so intel-
ligent, they are
easily trained.
But the kelpie
—red or black
—is the dog for the road and for forcing
in the yards. The border-kelpie cross is
a first-class allrounder, but crossed a
second or more times the mong appears,
■no matter how good both parents may
have been.
It is strange that, in a country where
so many cattle are handled, the cattle-
dog has lagged so far behind the sheep-
dog, in all respects except enthusiasm. All
the vaunted Queensland heeler knows is
to bite, duck and get away, and he is the
only cattle-dog the cattle industry in Aus-
tralia has evolved.
SHADOW-CHASER.
FLOOD-TIDE
Who will hold the sea back
When west-winds gather?
When clouds drop dark in the bushland
And gulls are blown to the marshland
The lean-ribbed fox keeps to his lair
And kelp is tossed like a merman’s hair:
Who will fend the sea-wrack
And wild wave’s lather?
Sandbags and concrete, shovels and barrows,
Churning ’dozers and squelching earth;
But little white crabs with their tiny Farrows
Laugh at the lot and the sea-wall’s girth.
Who can hold the halter
Of the mad west-wind?
Men in oilskins flapping
Where inlet waves are lapping
Sweat and toil in wild commotion,
Toil and sweat a drop in the ocean,
And the little white defaulter
Is scratching away behind.
It should have been rammed, boys, it hadn’t
time to harden:
A core-wall would hold if we only had the
means.
Salt in the main dam, salt in the garden,
And that is the end of the wife’s French beans.
VICTORIA,
BETTY MARTYN.


FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
Faith is a wonderful thing. It makes a meaning
of all that is in the world around us; puts a value on
the experience of living. It unites men in trust of one
another, inspires them to better things, gives them a
goal. It bridges the chasm between time and eternity.
“Faith can move mountains.” How literally true
that is today, when mammoth machinery can shear
away mountains —if only man will have the faith to
move the machine.
However, the purpose of this brief excursion into
philosophy is to tell you why I give this column the
title it has.
I have faith, tremendous faith, in Australia, I
have special faith in Queensland, which forms nearly a
quarter —and that potentially the richest quarter—of
this Commonwealth.
It is my hope that in the months and years ahead
the faith of Queenslanders may be strengthened in
the destiny of themselves and of their great State. So
we’ll take a little time off to talk about life as we see
it; to scan the scene, and perhaps sometimes glance
sideways at ourselves in the mirror. Not vanity, just a
little self-scrutiny.
Has it occurred to you that no people in history
have had a greater opportunity than ourselves, a
handful of eight and a half million people fringing a
continent?
When empires were built in the past, when colonial
outposts grew to be nations, the men who wrought
the change had nothing to their hand but puny and
primitive tools. The axe, the hammer, the plough.
It’s a different story now. Few countries in the world
lie largely undeveloped and awaiting the touch of
man. Australia is one of them, perhaps the only one
of comparable richness. And in the hands of those
whose lot it is to do the work are instruments of power
and mechanisation that our own pioneer parents would
have thought fantastically impossible.
Are we in our favored time to do less than they?
We are their breed. Are we to be proved incapable of
raising to greatness the land they opened so well? No.
Eight and a half million times No. Would that we
could multiply that number fourfold!
I am sure, is the sentiment of all Australians.
We are proud in what we have. We cherish the thought
of still prouder things. And if we are sensible, we must
realise that the gift of the land is not enough. It is the
use we make of it that will matter. The rise of this
country will depend on what each one of us gives to it
in work and service.
You see what I mean by Faith in the Future.
SMfll
M
w
- / «
F/J
‘O
. v-
-Z'SaS&iiE&Sm. ;-;*-*'
9.
it 5
.;.
Ssaiill
H
ne msH». . "her! .
°O Uc •"»», =g;3
SssiiL^ti
VG4B/W
I
The standard of
good taste in gin
for more than
200 years.
1
GIN
famous Aince /ZSO
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Credit and Debit
Many eminent economists
appear to have overlooked one
of the simplest rules of book-
keeping. And it is that every
debit has its corresponding
credit. Or, more significantly
from the economist’s point of
view, every credit has its
corresponding debit. Econo-
mists of this age, and especially
their political adherents, are
generally eager for the credits to
be established, but are often
quick in forgetting about the
deb.its.
Lord Keynes was no exception
to the credit-creating, debit-for-
getting clan. In his measures for
the relief of unemployment he
was always willing to create the
credits and to let the debits fall
where they will. Like so many
others, he seemed to take the
view that in a continuing,
expanding economy the debits
would be absorbed in a general
way without much hurtful effect
upon anyone, especially as he
had in reserve a vague idea of
bringing the debits into account
in good times and thus damping-
down a boom.
He supported the idea, in
other words, that you budget
for a deficit in times of unem-
ployment (financing the deficit
by creating credit) and for a
surplus (drawing-off excess
credit by taxation) in times of
overfull employment. We have
recently seen in Australia the
political hostility towards the
Menzies Government’s aim of
doing that very thing—budgeting
for a surplus. The Socialist
forces are making it their battle-
cry in all Federal and State
elections.
If it could be politically
managed there is a lot to be said
for the compensatory-Budget
theory, as the deficit-surplus
principle has come to be known.
It has the principle of overall
balance behind it. it may, in-
deed, under some really respons-
ible form of government, work
out reasonably well over a
period of years. But it will only
do so as long as the debits are
acknowledged as well as the
credits.
If the debits are not acknow-
ledged and eventually offset
against the credits they will
always be with us in the form
of inflation, liable to enter
themselves. into the ledger-ac-
counts of the most unsuspecting
and least liable person. The
great credits created during
1939-45 to finance war expendi-
ture (in an economic sense waste,
however necessary otherwise)
have left their corresponding
debits in the value that has been
taken from the purchasing-power
of our pound, and the losses
that have been incurred by all
those persons holding fixed-
interest securities as well as many
other types of investment. It is
a sad fact that the people against
whom the indiscriminate debits
have fallen with greatest em-
phasis have been those people
who invested in what are known
as “trustee securities” —Govern-
ment bonds, first-mortgages and
the like. The wage-earner has
been largely protected by cost-
of-living adjustments, and,
politically strong, he has not
accepted his fair share of the
debits —yet.
“A fair day’s work for a fair
day’s pay” is another way of
saying that every wages-credit
must have its corresponding
debit. In this emphasis on what
is fair not only the interests of
the wage-earner and his em-
ployer are involved. Just as im-
portant are the interests of the
consumer. It may be that an
employer, by passing on the cost
of too-high wages for too-little
output, balance his own
books. But the national books
get out of balance all the more.
The debit arising from too high
a credit to the wage-earner (the
net effect of which is under-
production in relation to money
paid out) falls on the consumer,
who, often as not, is a wage-
earner, too. When the resulting
higher prices cause a further rise
in Arbitration Court wages it
can be seen what devastation
the uncontrolled debits cause in
the way of inflation.
Arbitration awards of higher
wages that are not based upon
increased production have the
same effect unless they are iso-
lated within the industry itself
by price-control. But industry
today cannot afford not to pass
on wage-increases. It has already
had to absorb more than its
fair share of debits arising out of
war-time and post-war inflation.
The bookkeeper is often, in
the eyes of the economist, an
inferior person. “Just a matter
of bookkeeping” is a con-
temptuous expression. But one
thing the bookkeeper does is to
keep track of rights, obligations
and equities: of debits and
credits. Until the economist does
likewise, even if only in an over-
all way, his planning will be full
of traps and pitfalls not con-
templated by his political sup-
porters, and his profession will
come to be regarded as sophisti-
cal quackery.
Interims and Prices
New issues are still acknow-
ledged without exuberance on
’Change ; Associated Pulp “old”
shares fell from 265. to 245.
following announcement of a
one-for-five issue at par, and
Newbold Refractories, the ords.
in which were recently sold at
335., with buyers unsatisfied,
weakened a little after an-
nouncement of a new issue in
the ratio of two for five at par.
When the rights to these new
issues are available they may be
worth watching. Rights that
have turned out good buying in
recent months have been Mason-
ite, Associated Leathers and'
R. B. Davies Industries. Mauri
Bros, and Thomson scrip, fol-
lowing last year’s bonus issue,
also went at bargain prices.
Announcement of stable divi-
dends by some companies
has tended to strengthen
support for the shares con-
cerned, if anything. Bank of
N. S. Wales has repeated its 8
p.c. quarterly distribution, and
buyers have raised their bids to
£39 12s. 6d. for the £2O shares,
the yield available being slightly
over 4 p.c. Bradford Cotton
Mills has maintained its ord.
rate at 10 p.c. p.a., and at 365.
(355., ex Is. div.) the yield is 5.7
p.c. The co. is a textile-manu-
facturer with unusually strong
finances and well-spread pro-
duction units. The div. is pay-
able on March 31 ; the books
close on February 20.
Associated Leathers 10s. ords.
are to be had at 175., yielding
5.3 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
Last year’s earnings were
16.9 p.c. on capital.
Bearing Service 10s. shares
have been in greater demand.
The co. showed 25.7 p.c. on
capital during 1951-52 and paid
9 p.c. (Tax-free reserves are
now exhausted). At 13s. 6d. the
shares yield 7 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div.
basis. The co. reported a falling-
off in sales early in the current
term, but it is engaged in an
essential industry.
On reports that the bore (at
Roma, Q.) had passed through
oil-bearing sands the 3s. 3d.-paids
in Australian Associated Oilfields
spurted to above ss„ then
dropped to 3s. lid. Later reports
that a 4ft. layer of oil had been
encountered brought another up-
ward surge in the shares, carry-
ing them to 6s. Oil and gas
have been encountered at Roma
before, but no commercial dis-
covery has been made.
Moina Tungsten looks like get-
ting a good reception when it
approaches the sharemarket.
Paid capital will be £250,000, of
which £202,525 will be* sub-
scribed in cash and £47,465
passed (in scrip) to the vendor
syndicate. The syndicate will
also be paid £8525 in cash. The
new co. will start immediately
to reopen and work the co.’s
mine in Tasmania. The price of
wolfram ore has been falling, but
it is still worth 3305. a unit in,
London.
In Sydney, Frederic Ash scrip
and the ord. shares in Swans
are at about the same level—
-425. or thereabouts. Frederic
Ash showed 25.2 p.c. on ord.
capital last year. Swans 28.6 p.c.
Each co. dropped its div. from
15 p.c. to p.c. Though partly
dependent on the building trade,
there should be greater liquidity
of finance by the time next
balance is struck. An interim
div. is due from S\yans this
month, and one also from Ash.
Dangar Gedye ords. were on
offer at 425. last week, giving a
yield of 6 p.c. on a 12i p.c. div.
basis. Dealing principally in
machinery and supplies for the
land industries (including Lister
products) the more prosperous
pastoral industry this year
should help. The co. has some
pref. capital to attend to before
the ords., but it is mostly cheap
money (5 p.c.). After attending
to the prefs., earnings for 1951-
52 were equal to 34.2 p.c. on
ord. capital. An interim ord.
div. is due next month.
Several of the new listings
in the Sydney motor trade
are below par. Peter Lloyd
(at 3s. 10d.), Hunt Bros.
(4s. lid.) and Ira L. and
A. C. Berk (4s. 5d.) are all be-
low their ss. par value. New
motor-finance concerns are
generally in the same boat. Some
improvement in the motor trade
is reported, but it is a shadow
of its former self.
A well-run Sydney concern is
Ford Sherington, making Glo-
bite and Fordite travel-goods in
most Australian States and in
South Africa. It showed 17.2
p.c. on capital last year and
paid 10 p.c. tax-free. At Bs. 3d.
the ss. ords. yield 6 p.c. An
interim distribution is not due
until May.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
£
JACKSON $
O'SUI-IXVAjf
K V
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under *
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for.
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pnllen, Public Trustee.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —-In Divorce.
TO STANLEY COOPER late of Helens-
burgh.—TAKE NOTICE that DAPHNE
MAY COOPER has filed Petition for
Divorce No. 4194 of 1952 on the grouads
of desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Coutf
King Street Sydney by the 10th day o|
April 1953 and obtain a copy Of the Peti-
tion free of charge from JOHN H.
NORTON, Solicitor, 893 George Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £13,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
runr.liiiiihiUiiiatlMjiiiHjit
17
■; v y
- - K
«■
A Vacuum
Ikhter than
air
BRESCIA 1670
REAT INTEREST has been aroused by the publication
of a scientific treatise by the Jesuit Fancesco de Lana.
The author, well known for experiments on determining
the weight of air, speculates on the use of aircraft for
transport and military purposes. He describes his con-
ception of an aerial ship, supported by four evacuated globes
and propelled by sails or oars.
“The principle,” affirms de Lana, “is sound enough. The
ship is bound to rise from the ground. And what other
means of propulsion is practicable? As soon as you invent a
machine you need proper fuelling arrangements, and so far no
one has even thought of the BP Aviation Service. But I
expect they will; and a very good fuelling service it will
be, as everyone will know.”
AVIATION
SERVICE
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD,. All States.
A wholly owned subsidiary of Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
Once again Mr. Churchill has
confounded his critics. It is no
secret that his decision to “drop
in” on New York and Wash-
ington while en route for
Jamaica was his own, taken
against the joint representations
of his advisers on both sides of
the Atlantic. London feared the
blundering tread of a too-early
and overanxious guest, and
Washington the double embar-
rassment of two hosts, the incom-
ing and the outgoing, whose
party - clothes and business-
papers were out of reach in the
removal-vans.
But Mr. Churchill clearly
knew what he was doing. He
was no more a premature guest
than one who outstayed his
welcome. His visit is unlikely to
bring about any rapid solution to
Anglo-American problems —it
was never intended to —but it
does set the key for future dis-
cussions, which will have a
sterner down - to - business
atmosphere than this exchange
of felicities between two old
friends.
The Chancellor of the
Exchequer, too, has been no less
alive to the cause of Anglo-
American understanding by his
giving an interview to “U.S.
News and World Report.” This
was in the form of answers to
26 questions on the British point
of view. “U.S. News” is an
influential weekly with a circu-
lation of over 500,000, mainly
among businessmen. It may be
presumed that the bulk of its
readers are natural Republican
voters, although not necessarily
active politicians. The interview
was well timed to coincide with
the change in administration, and
the answers were at once cogent
and concise.
Mr. Butler conceded that the
slogan “Trade, Not Aid,” was
of his own coining, and went on
tp expound the kind of back-
ground essential to its success.
That was not, by any means, the
same thing as telling the Ameri-
cans their business, and the
Chancellor avoided any such
imputation. But he was, never-
theless, outspoken to the point
of boldness over the “right
policies for a creditor country
like the U.S.” The active
encouragement of imports, the
abolition of tariff-walls and other
restrictive devices and the
expansion of investment in the
Commonwealth are, in effect,
the main requirements for
“Trade, Not Aid” to be
successful. Hardly a gentle
breaking-of-news for the benefit
of American Chambers of Com-
merce preparatory to their com-
ing round to his point of view!
That favorable circumstance
may be distant and imponder-
able, but Mr, Butler, who is given
neither to wasting words nor to
taking pot-shots, is evidently con-
fident that a closer economic
alliance is not only possible but
practicable.
Political Patches
The new session promises to
be light, at least so far as legis-
lation is concerned, but there are
no signs yet of a better temper
in the House of Commons.
Both the giant party organisa-
tions are in a state of deadlock.
Common agreement, even where
mutually desirable, seems quite
beyond achievement. The wilder
men of the Left are the real
culprits. They have no respect
for their own Whips, and are
always on the lookout for a
chance to steal a march on the
Tories, who, smarting from their
embarrassing experience of being
counted out, are inclined to trust
no one.
Two important bills—the de-
nationalising of iron and steel
and of road transport—are on
their way to the statute-book.
Both are likely to provoke the
noisy bad feeling which nowa-
days accompanies any contro-
versial measure, but the Govern-
ment confidently hopes they will
be law before the Coronation,
A private bill, due in February,
is causing much shaking of heads
in specialist circles. It purposes
to reintroduce the birch for any
form of felony involving
violence. This goes further than
the original Act, repealed in
1948, which permitted birching
only for robbery with violence
and (as now) for prison offences.
Public opinion, outraged by a
wave of violent crime, is hardly
inclined towards the treatment of
ruffians by kindness. But, on the
other hand, responsible and
informed opinion holds that flog-
ging is no deterrent and that the
measure would be a clumsy,
retrogade step, setting back
penal reform a decade or two
towards transportation.
The Labor party is not so
much groping for a policy as
reduced to hoping that one will
somehow appear out of the blue,
Fraternal affection between the
industrial wing (the T.U.C.) and
the P°liti ca l wing (the Labor-
party executive) is one of strained
politeness. The executive
approached the T.U.C. for a get-
together as a short-cut towards a
policy that would be acceptable
to both, but the T.U.C., ever
jealous of its independence,
turned mildly snooty and refused
to play.
go the dissensions continue,
At first Mr. Bevan’s election to
the Shadow Cabinet appeared to
have, a salutary effect upon him.
He was both amenable and
reticent. But not for long. His
mouthpiece, “Tribune,” has
broken the discreet silence with
an uncouth roar, reproaching
Mr. Lincoln Evans, general-
secretary of the Iron and Steel
Trades Confederation, for accept-
i n g a knighthood. The Bevanites’
besetting sin, public recrimina-
tion within the party, which so
disturbs Mr. Attlee, is plainly
beyond redemption.
p rama Doldrums
A glance down the London
u» somewhat less than
inspiring.
Out-and-out show business-
variety, farce and musicals-
accounts for at least a quarter of
the 40-odd theatres. With a
large, regular and none-too-
choosy audience on tap, quality
is not always uniform. “South
Pacific” is the best of the
musicals, and the new Crazy
Gang show (average age 60-plus)
the most hilarious.
Surprisingly, there is not one
rev ival in the West End, but
seats are unobtainable at both
Merchant of Venice” and
“Richard II,” which, strictly, are
0 g t h e theatrical map. A round
score 0 f straight plays includes
five G f the thriller type. Of the
j-est, about seven are indifferent
bread - and - butter comedies,
occasionally enlivened 'by a
starry twinkle. Another four,
although well-merited successes,
have rather lost their novelty by
the length of their runs.
nru choice is thus narrowed
j t tfve nlavs. Charles
Morgan’s “The River Line” has
nualitv and a grinning
seconc j act ut tends to stretch
Dat j ence an ’fi intellect. Rattigan’s
D eer > Blue Sea” centres
Qn a gasfire morbidity,
histrionics and his own consider-
a hf e technique. “The Young
Elizabeth,” an American play
rich in' imagination and
character, is the best of the
serious
A brace of comedies, both by
Noel Coward remains. “Rela_
live Values” bears the sure and
lively touch of the master but is
about to come oft. •Quadrille
shows him at his second-best,
although the Lunts, for whom
it was written, charge its out-
moded situations and slogging
dialogue with their incomparable
dynamism.
Why these doldrums? The
reason is all too clear. We lack
playwrights. Managements are
wary of experiment and not, it
would seem, alive to opportunity,
The aspiring playwright, however
talented, has neither incentive
nor hope of even modest reward,
An instance in point is the
astonishing but quite fortuitous
success of Frederick Knott’s
thriller “Dial ‘M’ for Murder.”
This was, like almost every other
first play, rejected in turn by the
managements. Then, seeing it
on television, a comparative out-
sider sensed its possibilities and
managed, after some difficulty, to
present it at the Westminster
Theatre. The play is the out-
standing success of last year and
one °f the few to take on in
America, where it appears in
Chicago as well as oh Broadway,
The author’s requirements
were simple—a cast of five, a
single set and everyday properties
—and his stagecraft as free from
stint. A thoroughly good busi-
ness proportion m fact,
It can hardly be an encourag-
ing thought to writers that the
theatrical buyers may be unab e
to recognise a good saleable
article when it is set right in
front of them.


msjr 9TTf7
33-39 HUNTER ST-
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
WAGGA WAGGA,
TAMWORTH and
ORANGE.
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73,000,000.
Are you an Executor or Trustee?
If so, have you considered transferring your responsi-
bilities to Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)?
Almost every day of the year someone is faced with the
responsibility of accepting the Executorship of a Will of
some person who has died.
Should you find yourself in this position, you may
discover, as many others have, that you can transfer the
burden of this work to Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited). It would be wise in such cases, before taking
any steps at all, to confer with one of our Senior Officers.
The services of Perpetual Trustee Company Limited are
also available where a grant of (or Letters of
Administration) has already been obtained" or even where
an Estate has been in existence for a long period.
Why not write, or telephone 80377, to day, for an
appointment?
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
A. O. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS. ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries,!
, Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. 10 p.c. 10 p.c. serves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1946.. 450,735 80,000 262,500 158,235 3,101,418
1947.. 403,659 30,000 262,500 111,159 3,212,577
To plant & invest, reserve, £50,000 1,262,577
Unexplained additions res., £48,734 1,311,311
8J p.e. 8i p.c.
1948.. 355,179 25,000 218,750 111,429 3,422,740
Net addition reserves, £11,104 ..3.433,844
Added intangibles, £30,125 ..8,403,719
1949.. 350,000 25,000 218,750 106,250 3,509,969
Surplus sale assets, £40,241 .. .. 3,550,210
Net reduction reserves, £48,957 ..3,501,253
Intangibles reduced, £15,631 .. .. 3,516,884
124 p.c. 12J p.c.
1950.. 554,212 37,500 328,125 188,587 2,705,471
Revaluation freeholds, £5,371,484 ..9,076,965
Reserves capitalised, £2,925,000 .. 6,151,955
Add reduction intangibles, etc., £13,998 6,165,953
Less reserve adjustment, £1333 .. 6,164,620
6J p.c. 6J p.c.
1951.. 467,110 28,125 337,500 101,485 6,266,105
Surplus sale assets, £3683 . . . . 6,269,788
Net tax arrears, £3339 .„ . . 6,266,449
Intangibles reduced, £29,316 ..6,295,765
1952.. 450,793 28,125 339,760 82,916 6,378,681
* After deducting intangibles, etc. (now £1,023,037).
t Excluding outside interests in subsidiaries.
The one-for-one gift scrip-issue of
2.925.000 £1 non-voting “Z” shares
during the 1951 term, and other things,
have pushed the question of further
benefits to shareholders into the back-
ground for the present. Interest now
centres mainly upon maintenance of the
div., which, unless something very un-
expected happens, isn’t likely to be inter-
fered with at the moment, and upon
trade and other trends bearing upon
future earning-capacity of the business.
The gift was the second of its kind —
£995,000 of reserves was capitalised in
1934 —since the co. merged the interests
of a number of then-sick Melbourne
breweries in 1907. It was made from a
reserve of £5,371,484 created by writing-
up the book-value of freeholds to a
“figure more approaching present-day
values,” and thus “show in the accounts
a more accurate reflection of shareholders’
funds and assets.” The rate of both net
earnings and dividends (the latter has been
cut in halves) now bear a more moderate
yet truer ratio to actual capital employed.
Paid capital is now £5,850,000 in 300,000
7 p.c. prefs., which advance with the ords.
in any distribution beyond that rate,
2.625.000 ords. and the “Z” shares
already referred to.
The co. enjoys a lion’s share of the
trade in its home State, where, a year
ago, it owned 121 of the 1665 licensed
hotels. Variations in post-war profits
have been due for the most part to the
alternating margins between costs and
selling-prices, which are Government-
controlled. For a long time returns from
the expanding output of beer more than
took care of the rise in costs ; but for
the last few years it has been the other
way about, owing to steep lifts in wage-
rates and in prices for sugar, hops, barley,
malt and other brewing ingredients, as
well as in the cost of bottles, transport,'
etc. Hence the contraction in the 1951
profit figure.
Last term output and sales con-
tinued to increase, and so did the
brewer’s proportion of the selling-price—
excise, which accounts for about 78 p.c.
of the selling-price of bulk beer, goes to
the Treasury. But rising costs gobbled
the gains and more besides, leaving the
net result £16,317 lighter at £450,793.
That was after allowing £287,675 (down
£25,719) for depreciation and whatever
was considered necessary for taxation
and sundry contingencies. The £450,793
—it was £119,819 less than the 1939 figure
which was earned on not much more
than half last term’s output of 45.1
million gallons of beer —was 7.7 p.c. on
capital as it now stands as against 8 p.c.
for the previous term. The all-round
6i p.c. div., equal to 12i p.c. on capital
as it stood before the gift just referred
to, was repeated.
Since the close of accounts a strike at
the co’s brewery stopped production and
deliveries for a while; but overall beer
consumption has been running a little
ahead of last term’s level. More pleasing
is the smallness of the increase—ls. a
week —in the last quarterly basic-wage
declaration for Melbourne, and the
tendency of prices for raw materials to
firm.
The year’s net addition of £542,422 to
plant points to expanded output with
modernised equipment, which is one of
the few ways of attacking costs still open
to management;
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries.
1950. 1951. i 1952.
Paid capital .. £2,925,000 £5,850,000 £5,850,000
OUtside interests* 15,969 18,733 22,903
Oreditorst-. •• 922,541 1,139,576 1,762,469
Suspense account.. 8,221 16,646 2U920
Final dividend . . 219,376 182,812 190,875
Freeholds,
breweries, etc... 3,618,225 9,370,873 9,560,206
Plant .. .. 960,526 1,182,324 1,724.746
Stocks, etc. .. 746,062 915,968 1,294,842
Book debts .. 1.437,839 1,513,082 1,374,760
Cash. etc. .. 1,033,925 491,624 287,394
* Includes proportion reserves, t Includes tax reserves.
Stocks increased by £378,874, due mainly
to the costs factor, and freeholds, etc.,
by £179,333, chiefly on account of im-
provements to hotels. To meet the capital
expenditure involved the co. went outside
for an extra £622,893, reduced book-debts
by £138,322 and drew upon cash, etc.,
for £204,230. Presently several of the
co.’s hotels are to be rebuilt, but no hint
is given as to whether shareholders are
likely to be asked to assist.
C.U.B.’s capital is not held directly
by the public, but mostly by the follow-
ing holding cos., which also doubled their
paid capitals (three for one in the case
of Melbourne Co-op.) following the gift
from the operating co.:
Holding*
Paid in Div.f Market
Company. Capital. C.U.B. p.c. Yield.t
£ p.c. p.a. p.c.
Melb. Co-op. (10/-) 1,727,923 33.8 6f 4.5
Carlton (20/-) .. 1.633,984 31.8 7i 4.8
Oastlemaine (15/-) 450,000 6.0 5 5.3
Foster (20/-) .. 230,400 4.3 6J 5.4
Shamrock (20/-) . . 282,690 4.3 5.6
Other interests .. 19.8
Figures in parenthesis are face-value of shares.
* Proportion of C.U.B. capital held, f Based on last
declared div. $At current market price of shares.
In addition to divs. from C.U.B. some
of the cos. gather rents, etc., from pro-
perties and other investments of their
own. In conformity with the general
market trend, the price of their scrip is
lower and the current market yield higher
than a year ago.
Vesta Battery Co., Ltd.
f Divs. N
Pref. To Re- Re-
June. Profit.* 9 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
1948.. 22.553 418 12 p.c. = 16,440 5,694 29,767
Assets revaluation, £14,638 .. .. 44,405
1949.. 41.407 418 17| p.c. - 23,977 17,012 61,417
Less exchange adjustment, £770 .. 60,647
1960.. 41,779 418 15 p.c. = 25,689 15,672 76,319
1951.. 49,636 418 15 „ „ 38,908 10,310 86,629
From inner reserves, £1520 .. .. 88,149
1952.. 72.346 418 15 p.c. = 46,990 24,938 113,087
* Includes unexplained additions to reserves.
t After deducting intangibles, £14,500.
An encouraging performance. The co.
took over the manufacturing and distri-
buting rights of Vesta Battery Corp.
(U.S.) in Australia and New Zealand
about 24 years ago. The growth of the
figures since 1948, when the public became
interested, is a measure of the manage-
ment’s success in exploiting opportunities
provided by the expanding motor and
tractor trades, and of progress made by
a recently-established offshoot, Vesta
Products Pty., which makes battery-
chargers and -testing appliances, car-
wiring-harness, automobile jacks, etc.
During the last five years divs. averag-
ing 14.9 p.c. have been paid from profits
averaging 22.4 p.c. on capital actually
employed, and the amount on the share
register has shot up from £22,056 to
£317,915 by capitalisation of £44,594 of
reserves and three cash issues at par
totalling £251,256. Annual production
now exceeds 300,000 batteries, and some
3,000,000 ft. of automobile cable is turned
out as well as over £250,000-worth of
other ancillary equipment. And develop-
ment of the business continues.
Capacity and life of the co.’s batteries
have just been increased by a new
chemical formula, and additional plant of
Swedish origin is being installed to make
microporous latex-rubber separators, re-
inforced with fibre-glass, which are to
replace the wood separators now in use.
The new article, it is claimed, will have
“unlimited self-life as well as a con-
siderably increased service-life.” Much
is expected from this development
and from the range of automobile wiring-
harness being turned out by the sub-
sidiary.
To help meet capital outlay, those on
the share register at January 9 were
offered £125,307 of 6 p.c. registered 10s.-
notes at par, which are convertible into
f.-p. 10s. ord. shares on a par basis at
end December, 1956, or redeemable in
cash at face-value on January 31, 1958.
The rights to the notes recently sold at
2s. 7d., making total cost, including
brokerage, 12s. 9d., at which figure the
immediate return is 4.7 p.c. On conver-
sion into shares the return would be
6.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. Assuming
that all the notes are converted into
shares, and that there is no increase in
paid capital meanwhile, the total on the
register at the end of 1956 would become
£443,222, on which the pref. divs. (£418)
and 15 p.c. to the ords. would call for
£66,394, or only £7640 more profit than
was claimed last term.
The profit claimed is reconciled with
the figure shown in the introductory table
in this way:
1951. 1952.
Profit claimed .. .. .. £45,915 £58,754
Unexplained additions—
General reserve .. .. 1,161 5,000
Insurance reserve .. .. 2,450 3,250
Exchange account .. .. 110 5,342
Profit per table .. ..£49,636 £72,346
Of the £72,346, pref. divs. took £4lB and
the balance was equal to 22.9 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against 18.9, 24.2,
29.9 and 16.1 p.c. back to 1948. No
interim div. was paid, money being
wanted in the business, but the final of
15 p.c., same rate as for the two full
preceding years, was a comfortable
matter. On shareholders’ funds (capital
and reserves combined), the £72,346 was
16.7 p.c., so the notes look like earning
a lot more than their keep.
Expansion is the keynote of balance-
sheet figures:—
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. ~ £210,161 £317,915 £317,915
Mortgage .. .. 9,872
Overdraft .. .. 71,762 101,630 116,712
Creditors .. .. 83,976 107,980 171,469
Tax provision . . .. 35,027 35,919 88,295
Final dividend . . .. 15,628 23,704 47,408
Land and buildings . . 88,594 107,793 127,481
Plant and machinery . . 52,562 61,274 86,062
Furniture, fittings, etc. 17,680 21,124 31,555
Stock 212,420 291,815 353,101
Book debts . . . . 121,124 187,925 265,545
Cash, etc 488 3,836 1,014
Intangibles .. .. 14,500 14,500 14,500
To meet net additions of £54,907 to fixed
assets, £61,286 to stocks and £77,620 to
book-debts, the co. went outside for an
extra £88,443.
Turnover, dependent more on the
number of cars, etc., in use than upon
new registrations, has continued to in-
crease since the close of accounts. At
18s. 6d. (225. a year ago) the f.-p. 10s.
ords. return 8.1 p.c.. on a 15 p.c. div. basis,
or 6.7 p.c. should the distribution drop
to 12y p.c. Net tangible cover is 13s. 7d.
The 9 p.c. prefs. (£2150 firsts and £2500
seconds) are not listed on ’Change.
Waugh and Josephson
June, Profit. , Dividends ■, serves, swves.
£ £ £ £
1949.. 88,600 10 p.c. = 23,125 65,475 158.012
Unexplained addition, £495 .. .. 158 007
1950. .125,265 10 p.c. = 30,000 95,265 253,772
Revaluation assets, £44,681 .. .. 298,453
Share premiums, £60,000 .. .. 358,453
Unexplained addition, £24,013 .. 382,466
Reserve capitalised, £60,000 .. .. 322,466
1951. .156,975 124 p.c. = 43,125 113,850 436!5i6
Unexplained addition, £10,977 .. 447 293
1952. .188,368 12J p.c. = 60,000 128,368 575,661
It was about the mid-1930’s that this
now 72-year-old business, which grew up
on production of boilers and butter-
factory- and dairyfarm-equipment, began
to seriously turn attention to the distri-
bution and servicing of farm and other
tractors, graders, loaders, etc., which
became the major part pf activi-
ties during the war. The management
pulled out of the old field entirely in
1946, since when expenditure on public
works and growing recognition of the
value of mechanisation in combating farm
costs and increasing production sent
demand along with a rush.
The next table shows what happened
in connection with the two main types
of tractors on rural holdings in N. S.
Wales and Queensland:
Tractors on Rural Holdings.*
Wheeled Type. Crawler Type.
A . , i a Total
March, 31, N.S.W. Qld. N.S.W. Qld?Tractors.
1945 .. 15,145 12,690 1214 1957 31,012
1950 .. 25,533 20,616 1831 3111 60,081
1951 . . 30,061 24,406 2145 3388 60,000
1952 . . 35,302 26,953 2828 3941 69,024
Increase p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
since 1945 133.1 112.3 132.9 101.4 122.6
* Commonwealth Statistician’s figures.
The co. holds the N. S. Wales and
Queensland agencies for the following
American cos.: Caterpillar Tractor Co.,
Trackson Co. (manufacturers of front-
end loaders), Athley Products Corp.
(makers of loaders, etc.), and the Deere
Co. (producers of wheeled-type tractors
and farm equipment). To help overcome
the dollar problem the Caterpillar Co.
and some of its American friends set up
an associate, Steelweld Pty., at Footscray
(Vic.), to manufacture, under licence,
equipment supplied by them.
Net earnings responded to the growth
in turnover, and those on the register
joined in the prosperity. During the 1951
term £60,000 of bonus-scrip was handed
out, one-for-five, 120,000 new £1 shares
were issued at a premium of 10s. each,
and the div. was lifted from 10 p.c. to
12) p.c., which called for less than one-
third of the year’s profit.
Turnover continued to expand last term,
when better deliveries of equipment and
spare parts, especially during the latter
half of the period, enabled accumulated
orders to be overtaken. Sales of Deere
equipment and of spare parts contri-
buted in small measure to the year’s
results, the chairman says. After allow-
ing £16,285 (down £3399) for deprecia-
tion and £170,000 (up £21,500) for taxa-
tion, the net result was £31,393 better at
£188,368. That was a robust 39.2 p.c.
on capital as against 45.5, 41.7 and
38.3 p.c. for the three preceding years.
So the 12) p.c. distribution, of which
2) p.c. is labelled bonus, remained quite
a comfortable matter. The £128,368
(68.1 p.c.) of the year's net earnings that
remained, together with £10,977 tossed
from somewhere into general reserves,
lifted the lay-by to £575,661, which is
£95,661 in excess of paid capital. The
two combined therefore need turn in only
5.6 p.c. to cover 12) p.c. on capital alone
Stocks (up £233,571) dominate the
balance-sheet Structure —they appear the
lower of cost or market-value, and
account for over 72 p.c, of total assets:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. .. £300,000 £480,000 £480,000
Mortgage . . . . 48,000 48,000 48,000
Creditors . . - . 273,661 392,017 536,353
Tax provision . . . . 116,463 148,500 156,248
Final div. . . . . 30,000 28,125 36,000
Freeholds . . . . 147,161 212,064 215,610
Plant and machinery . . 31,914 43,450 63,514
, Shares subsidiary '.. 500 500 500
Stock .. .. .. 672,473 1,095,047 1,328,618
Debtors 121,258 180,993 223,257
Cash 48,590 904 763
To carry the bigger inventory, add


TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut
Special Latakia Pipe Mixture
in 2oz. packets at 28/6 per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31/6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under 11b.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
♦ * * ♦
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
Public Notice
WE, EMANUEL and KATHERINE ELEF-
THERIOU, of Greek nationality, born at
Kios and Lithnos (respectively), Greece,
and resident 5 years in Australia, now
residing at 32 Derbyshire Road, Leich-
hardt, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship Act,
1948.
(hftj mp&timti iiMkw,
tkt immcicd ckaMU
A man with family responsibilities who puts
his money into any other form of investment,
before he has arranged adequate life assur-
ance, is gambling with the c future of his
dependents. No man knows his life span . . .
was founded In 1869 on a purely mutual basis
—policyholders alone share all profits —you
secure Life Assurance at nett cost. All moneys
contributed and all such moneys earn are
ultimately returned to you or your beneficiaries
in protection or cash.
If will pay you to become a member of
this progressive Association . Ask for
an experienced officer to call and plan
your Life Assurance requirements . Ring
BL 1271 or write.
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION </ A/ASIA. LTD
(Ittc. in Vic.) ESTABLISHED 1869
350 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. BL 1271.
CRIPPLING RHEUMATIC PAINS
quickly eased with
D
TMttE MASK
I
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
9 During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
DOLCIN is non-toxic.
DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years.
1,100,000,000 tablets have been administered throughout
Is easy to take In tablet form.
Is obtslbable from year chemist.
R# eU
URff 15
MB aG °
.Vss
»HIW
u*0 l£
StfT rtE
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLGIK
Informative literature on Dolcin
wHi be sent on request to Dolcin
(Australia) Pty. Ltd., Box 7552,
Sydney.
D4J2
£42,264 to book-debts and
£23,610 to fixed assets the
amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., was increased by
£144,336. The improvement in
the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£776,038) was £115,695.
Speaking generally, the picture
has changed considerably since
the close of accounts. Limita-
tion of expenditure on public
works—it was placing a severe
strain on available resources —
resulted in some national projects
being closed down until more
funds become available, and
others are proceeding at a
reduced pace. At the same time
private enterprise has restricted
its mechanising activities. Still,
the board is confident that the
present rate of dividend will be
adequately covered by the
current term’s net earnings.
Negotiations are now under way
for sale of the Queensland
franchise for the Caterpillar
traction to Hastings Deering
(Q’land), Pty., Ltd., at “a very
satisfactory figure,” Proceeds
are to be used to finance expan-
sion of activities in N. S. Wales,
where new branches in country
centres are being opened.
At 455. (58s. 6d. a year ago),
the f.-p. £1 shares return 5.5 p.c.
on a 12j p.c. distribution. Net
tangible cover is 435. lid.
Stirling Henry, Ltd. (Syd.)
f Dividends—Ke-
June Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.
30, £ p.c. p.c. £ £
1944.. 15,105 8 10 12,000 48,866
1945.. 16,335 8 10 12,000 53,201
1946.. 15,929 8 15.2 17,162 51,968
1947.. 23,210 8- 12j 20.750 54,428
Share premiums, £37,500 .. 91,928
1948.. 27,310 8 12J 23,563 95,675
1949.. 23,878 8 10 20,750 98,803
1950.. 34,702 8 10 25,438 108,067
Share-issue expenses, £1562.. 106,505
Revaluation freeholds £150,000 256,505
1951.. 91,223 8 12J 47,703 300,025
Share-issue expenses, £2344.. 297,681
1952.. 59,072 8 10 44,188 312,564
The 1952 profit figure (down
£32,151) is more indicative of
what has passed than of what
lies ahead. Nevertheless, the
post-war boom and the seller’s
market that grew out of it have
passed their peaks, and trading
is likely to become more com-
petitive and profits less easy to
win in the years ahead. From,
modern plants at Flemington,
near Sydney, the co. turns out
ladies’ and men’s underwear;
sportswear anej. industrial cloth-
ing from cotton-yarns and
-materials which are also pro-
duced on the spot. A branch
factory at Brisbane, set-up in
1948, is giving a good account
of itself, and there is a small but
profitable subsidiary operating at
Auckland (N.Z.).
Emphasis is placed where it
should be, namely, upon plant
efficiency and quality and style
of products. Output took a big
leap in 1951, following plant
additions and “forceful sales
penetration,” turnover shot up
by 68 p.c., reaching £1,680,000,
record net earnings were dis-
closed and a 2\ p.c. bonus was
added to the 10 p.c. div., making
p.c. for the year.
Last term, in common with
other textile concerns, the co
was hit by the spate of imports,
tightening of credit generally,
easing prices, consumer-resist-
ance and sharply rising costs.
Import restrictions eased the
pressure toward and since the
close of accounts, and Govern-
ment contracts helped to offset
the effects qf cautious buying by
the public.
Turnover was 16 p.c,
down on the record 1951 figure,
but was still 41 p.c. above the
1950 level. Savings totalling
£39,000-odd were made in allow-
ances for depreciation (£16,694,
down £20,656), taxation (£50,000,
down £20,000), staff fund (£2OOO,
down £4000) and long-service
leave (nil, £15,000 in previous
term). The £59,072 of profit
claimed covered the pref. div.
(£2000) and 13 .5 p.c. on average
ord. capital as against 24.4, 13.9,
11.6, 14.6 and 14.1 p.c. back to
1947. The previous year’s
2y p.c. bonus was dropped, leav-
ing the div. at 10 p.c., and main-
tenance of the rate at that level
for the current term is a reason-
able expectation.
To carry an extra £324,726 of
stocks (in at the lower of cost or
market-price), add £61,465 to
book-debts, reduce the amount
coming to trade creditors, etc.,
by £138,810 and spend £21,641
more than was written off on
fixed assets the co. went to its
bankers for a further £516,740;
Paid capital— 1950. 1951. 1952.
Ordinary .. £281,250 £421,875 £421,875
Preference 25,000 25,000 25,000
Overdraft .. 218,063 109,859 626,599
Creditors, etc.* 232,472 427,717 288,907
Final div. .. 14,063 31,640 42,188
Freehold ~ 163,840 321,534 325,905
Plant, etc. .. 140,773 143,374 160,644
Shares subsid. 12,839 12,839 12,839
Stocks .. 431,868 601,755 926,481
Debtors .. 126,201 224,481 285,946
Cash, etc. ~ 1,832 8,789 5,318
* Includes provision for taxation.
There was little change in the
more-or-less liquid surplus
(£260,051).
For the first four months of
the current term marked
improvement in sales was
reported, stocks were reduced by
£lOO,OOO and the debt to the
bank was lowered by £155,000.
And the factory is now working
overtime in order to keep
abreast of orders. However,
stocks and the overdraft both
need to be worked down a long
way yet before the position
becomes comfortable.
At 6s. 6d. (Bs. lOd. early in
1952) the f.-p. ss. ords. return
7.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The 8 p.c. £1 prefs, at 265. 9d.
yield 6 p.c. Net tangible cover
is £3O 7s. 6d. prefs. and Bs. Bd.
ords.
Norseman Gold Mines, N.L.
This Adelaide-controlled co.
(paid capital £187,500 in ss.
shares) owns two mines at Norse-
man (W.A.). One, the Norse-
man, a gold-producer, ceased
operations early in 1947, when
the grade of mill-feed fell to
2.6dwt, per ton. Earnings have
since come from mining the
pyritic ore-body in the Iron King
leases, where a new shaft is
being sunk and a big programme
of underground and plant de-
velopment is in hand in order
to step up mill output of pyritic
concentrates to 20,000 tons a
month. The intention is to
finance expenditure mainly out
of current earnings.
For the year to Oct. 31 last
84,932 tons (up 12,209 tons)
of 25.3 p.c. ore were milled
for 19,108.7 tons sulphur.
In addition 9737 tons (down
1844 tons) of high - grade
ore (32.8 p.a sulphur) were
crushed and railed direct to
manufacturers. Costs increased
Bs. reaching 58s. 6|d. per
ton. The average price received
was £22 14s. per ton of sulphur,
an increase of £8 per ton. So,
after writing off £135,196 (up
£103,633) on account of develop-
ment, allowing £13,625 (up
£8625) for depreciation and re-
serving £29,790 for plant-replace-
ment, the board put net profit at
£50,813 (up £13,677), or 27.5 p.c.
on capital as against 19.6 p.c. for
1951. The div., which was lifted
from 15 p.c. to 20 p.c., called
for £37,500.
Ore reserves at Oct. 31, 1952,
were put at 3,706,000 tons (up
769.000 tons), averaging not less
than 25 p.c, sulphur proved
1.009.000 tons (up 443,000 tons)
and probable 2,697,000 tons (up
326.000 tons). The co.’s consult-
ing geologist, H. J. C. Conolly,
“is so satisfied with the results
of surface-drilling that he recom-
mends temporary suspension of
these operations until under-
ground development has more
nearly caught up.
The new main shaft, which is
being sunk 2400 ft. north of the
present Campbell shaft, is ex-
pected to reach a depth of 1020 ft.
by August next; an underground
crushing-station is to be in-
.„, ° ,
Stalled, a second mill from the
gold section is being converted
to pyrites-production, and a
lot of new plant is to be in-
stalled.
When the books closed current
assets totalled £263,055, of which
£27,736 was in respect of staff
housing, and current liabilities
amounted to £148,519, of which
£102,630 was coming to the bank.
The market prices the scrip at
13s, 3d. as against 12s. a couple
of months ago.
Mt. Lyell (Tas.) proposes to
step-up its output of copper to
between 10,000 tons and 11,000
tons over the next five years.
Among other things, this means
accelerating the ratio of over-
burden removal to ore, as well
as quickening mill throughput,
to the benefit of unit costs ; net
earnings will, of course, be sub-
ject to movements in metal
prices. Also, the West Lyell
opencut is to be deepened, in-
creasing ore reserves there from
26 million tons to 40 million
tons, with a fractional gain in
grade from 068 pc to 070 pc
copper, thus giving the mine a
jjf e G f over 20 years. It will all
call f o r employment of more
heavy earth-moving and other
equipment, the estimated cost of
which is not mentioned. The
intention is to raise part of the
sum required by an outside loan
anc l to as k shareholders for the
balance. The co.’s f.-p. £1 shares
have had a stead y market
aroun d 20s. 6d. for some weeks.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
The National Theatre’s Coronation Arts
Festival opened brilliantly with a season
of ballet. First-night audiences were
regaled with “Le Manage d’Aurore,”
“Caprice,” “Carnaval” and “Pas de
Quatre.” Sir Robert Knox, chairman of
the National Theatre Movement, and
Lady Knox, with Gjertrude Johnson, re-
ceived official guests in the foyer. These
included the Deputy-Premier, Mr. Galvin,
and his wife, the Lord Mayor, Cr. W. J.
Brens, Mr. and Mrs. A. T. Smithers and
Dr. and Mrs. Cyril Tonkin. Adding lustre
to the audience was Sally Gilmour (Mrs.
Alan Wynne), who danced here with
the Ballet Rambert. Of gold lame was
the strapless top of her draped black
jersey frock. Mrs. Joseph Post’s faille
gown was in soft citron tones.
Mrs. Fred Dennett, whose ballerina
frock was of black faille, was with her
daughter, Mrs. Sue Cecil, who leaves in
Orontes for England on February 7.
Black faille was also chosen by Mrs.
Simon Warrender. Mrs. Henry Stebbins,
wife of the U.S. Consul-General, wore
a gown and jacket of pink frosted
organdie. Lady Connelly’s oyster-grey
satin frock was finished with silver em-
broidery. A steel-grey crepe gown and
oyster-grey satin stole made neat alliance
for Mrs. Rupert Downes. To a frothy
black tulle bouffant skirt Mrs. Stefan
Haag added a black-and-gold lame top.
Ida Murphy’s ballerina frock was pink-
and-black tie-silk.
☆ ☆ ☆
A classical gown of pure white French
brocade was chosen by Mary Elizabeth,
elder daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. R.
Sullivan, when she was married to Lieut-
Commander Thomas James O’Byrne,
R.A.N.V.R., in Church of the Apostles,
Launceston. The wedding was followed
by nuptial mass, with Dean W. A. Upton
officiating. Mary’s gown was cut with
a very full skirt and the bodice had a
deep square neckline and short sleeves.
From a circlet of stephanotis the filmy
tulle veil floated softly over the shoulders.
Bridesmaids were the bride’s sister
Barbara and Anne Marron, of Mel-
bourne, frocked alike in short bouffant
dresses of white Swiss organza over
pastel-pink poult. Appliqued organza
lilies trimmed the wide-necked bodices
made with short sleeves. The same
material fashioned their tiny white cloches
which had clusters of white flowers at
each side. The ’groom is the youngest
son of Mr. and Mrs. P. O. O’Byrne, of
Launceston.
At the reception at the home of the
bride’s parents the hostess wore a frock
of hydrgmgea-blue crepe-romaine and a
small matching blue hat, the brim of
which carried multicolqred flowers. Mrs.
O’Byrne’s frock was of Parma-violet
crepe, her reseda-green hat bf straw.
Among the guests were Dr. and Mrs. A. P.
Gorman (Deniliquin, Mr. and
Mrs. W. Jordan (Cunnamulla, Queens-
land), Dr. and Mrs. S. Marron, Mr. and
Mrs. R. Joseph and Mr. and Mrs. T.
Hartley, all from Melbourne.
☆’ ☆ ☆
In glorious sunshine racegoers saw
Lord Burleigh win the Launceston Cup.
The course at Mowbray was a picture,
with its verdant lawns and lovely flower-
beds. The Governor, Sir Ronald Cross,
his wife and daughter were at the Cup
accompanied by the Governor of W.A.
and Lady Gairdner. Lady Cross wore a
white silk frock patterned in soft pastel
tones and a tiny sage-green cap. Lady
Gairdner’s silk frock was navy and white,
her small white straw * cloche rose-
trimmed. Diana Cross was attractive in
a Wedgwood-blue-and-white silk frock
and wide-brimmed white straw hat.
Mrs. T. Fraser Elliott wore a small
black hat with her black ensemble. Dame
Gertrude Cosgrove majtched her pale-
mauve crepe frock with a small hat
swathed with gold lame. Mrs. W. R.
Menzies, wife of the vice-chairman of
the Tasmanian Turf Club, who was
hostess to the official guests, wore a frock
of *steel-grey silk flecked with a white
spot; the bodice was draped from the
shoulders to knot in a deep V-neckline,
and the skirt was accordion-pleated. Her
hat of matching fine straw was coolie in
shape. Mrs., David Turnbull’s large black
straw hat with its swathing and bow of
deep-azure was worn with an azure-
blue black-patterned tie-silk.
Mrs. T. G. Johnston, wife of the
treasurer of the T.T.C., wore dpve-grey
silk patterned in a white leaf design and
a black lace-straw hat. Mrs. W. L.
Oliver, wife of the club’s secretary, wore
a Leghorn hat with her sleeveless black
linen frock. Diana Learmonth, of Mel-
bourne, was in sea-green silk patterned in
white circles. Other smart racegoers
noted were Mrs. Grant Hay, her
daughter, Mrs. F. Fair, and daughter-in-
law Mrs. Peter Grant Hay, and Mrs.
Constance Day.
Launceston on Cup Night went gay.
The Brisbane Hotel was the setting for
many happy dinner-parties, including that
given by Tasmanian Turf Club chairman,
W. O. Layh, and his committee. Guests
included the Governors of Tasmania and
W.A., the Premier of Tasmania and the
High Commissioner for Canada, T. Fraser
Elliott. Wives of committeemen also had
their dinner-party. Huge bowls of
hydrangeas and gladioli made a nice
background for elegant evening-gowns.
Mrs. W. R. Menzies was hostess, and her
guests were the wife of Tasmania’s
Governor, Lady Cross, her daughter
Diana and the wife of the Governor of
W.A., Lady Gairdner. Among the guests
were Mrs. T. Fraser Elliott, Dame Gert-
rude Cosgrove, Mesdames Rarnes-Gorell,
Tom Johnston, H. Pitt, W- Rainbird,
W. Q. Oliver, N. Routley, W. Learoyd,
F. C/White, B. Freeland and Greenwood,
anji Misses Bertha Layh, D. Egan and
Pam Learoyd.
When Mrs. Lionel Newton (pictured
here) travelled through the various States
of South America she bought in each a
doll dressed in the manner of the local
inhabitants. Now her friends are paying
her many visits to see and admire her
wonderful collection. Until recently Mrs.
Newton was a member of several com-
mittees, including the Melbourne District
Nursing Society. She is now busy decorat-
ing her new home in Domain-road, South
Yarra. Always elegant, she is a notable
figure at any function, and , with Mrs.
A. G. Silk, is part-owner of Lady Havers,
a former winner of the Oaks. Mrs.
Newron has one daughter, Mrs. John
Linton.
Scots Church, in Collins-street, was the
setting for the marriage of Mrs, Lucy
Walmsley Sechiari, lady superintendant
of the Children’s Hospital, and Josef
Anton, only son of Mrs. J. J. de Leeve,
of Breda, Holland, and the late Mr. de
Leeve.
The bride is the younger daughter of
the late Mr. and Mrs. Nathaniel Walms-
ley, of Darwin (Eng.). Her plain-
skirted short-sleeved white nylon frock
had a looped-up hemline, the bodice a
heart-shaped nqckline. The long match-
ing stole was lined with palest grey, and
her gloves and shoes were also in that
shade. Her picture-hat was of white
crinoline straw and she carried a bouquet
of white roses and tree lily-of-the-valley.
Mrs. J. Bowen Pain, the matron-of-honor,
wore hydrangea-blue silk shantung with a
Patou-pink cloche. The Consul-General
for the Netherlands, Col. F. H. Wright,
was best-man.
After the ceremony, a buffet luncheon
was held at the War Nurses’ Memorial
Centre, St.' Kilda-road, where the guests
were received by Col. and Mrs. Wright
and Captain and Mrs. Burge. Mrs.
Wright wore a pink silk frock overprinted
with black Alen?on lace. It had a wrap-
over bodice and a finely-pleated side-panel.
Her hat was a large fine black straw.
Mrs. Burge had white accessories for her
navy silk frock. Among the guests were
Lady Latham and her daughter Freda,
Lady Disney, Lady Knox, Mrs. Wood-
row and her daughters, Mrs. Edward
Campbell and Nancy Woodrow.
SYDNEY
Oscar Wilde said that fashion is a
form of ugliness so intolerable that we
have to alter it every six months. Well,
no woman is going to agree with that
wholeheartedly, but it must be admitted
that after five months of summer outfits
one begins to get a bit bored with them,
to wish the dress-parades would start and
that the weather would get a little cooler
so that one could legitimately start to
plan autumn outfits.
Not, indeed, that there was anything
ugly about the dressing at the Randwick
meeting on Australia Day. Although the
weather was chancy, with odd flurries
of rain, racegoers wore faille and gros-
grain suits, ♦shantung and pure-silk dressep,
many summery wide hats, beautiful strip-
toe sandals and not a raincoat in sight.
One of the few “new-line” outfits to be
seen was Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere’s “little-
boy” suit in silver-grey silk shantung,
with its straight waistless coat and its
prim while collar. Mrs. Bruce Treneny s
glamorous bronze duster (what an
ignoble name for such a garment!) was
cut with sloping shoulders and melon
sleeves and worn with a becoming white
hat (small). Josephine Roche looked very
pretty in a slim navy suit with a tiny
bright buttercup straw hat and a yellow
carnation in her lapel. Mrs. Lennox
Bode’s suit of cocoa linen was worn with
a wide droopy black hat. Mrs. Strath
Playfair was in black linen with a black-
and-white-striped hat, her daughter Sue
in grey with a little green velvet cloche.
It is hard to imagine how Sydney is
to live up to the standard of party-giving
set by the dance at Rosemont, Woollahra,
during the week, when Sir Charles and
Lady Lloyd Jones, with Mr. and Mrs.
Anthony Hordern, entertained what
could be called “Sydney’s 400” in honor
of David Lloyd Jones and his fiancee,
Rosemary Turnbull, of Charles, Jnr., of
Edwina and Romayne Hordern, and
Roslyn Wesche. A moonlit night lent
further enchantment to the house and
grounds, where a dance pavilion, pink-
lined, chiffon-swathed and rose-garlanded,
glowed like a jewel and where two dance-
bands played non-stop through the night.
The dressing was beautiful, with many
of the younger girls, including Rosemary
Turnbull and Roslyn Wesche,' choosing
white diaphanous frocks. Lady Lloyd
Jones’s dress was a John Cavanagh model
of black paper-taffeta with a fine white
piqqe cuff-collar. Mrs. Hordern’s pink
lace was embroidered with jewels. Her
daughter Edwina wore a beautiful parch-
ment-pink satin dress embroidered with
pearls and gold. Romayne’s dress was
white lace with a cherry sash and bustle-
bow.
☆ ☆ ☆
The exodus to England and the Coro-
nation is gathering force. Among those
borne off by the Oronsay on Saturday
were Mr. and Mrs. J. Christie of Gular-
gambone ; the John Bromleys of Tam-
worth ; the E. C. Frecklingtons of Dal-
mally, Roma (Q.); Mr. and Mrs. John
Ross from Kanimbla, Holbrook; Mr.
and Mrs. lan Baird of Strathnairn, Can-
berra, with their two sons; and the A.
C. Rofes of Young, with their daughter
Valda.
☆ ☆ ☆
Apparently Jessie Matthews’s dresses
were not burnt when the scenery for her
play “Larger Than Life” went up in
flames, for she arrived at the civic recep-
tion given in her honor wearing a lovely
summery frock of white broderie
Anglaise, sleeveless, low-cut, full-skirted
and topped with a wide black hat, rose-
decorated. Her daughter Catherine wore
lilac linen, embroidered and tucked, no
hat, and flat teenage shoes. The Lady
Mayoress (Mrs. P. D. Hills) was neat,
smiling and petite in black, with a tiny
cream boater, black-banded. In the
absence of the Lord Mayor, the Deputy
Lord Mayor, Alderman Frank Green,
helped to receive the guests, who included
nearly everyone connected with the
“legitimate” theatre in Sydney. It wasn’t
surprising, therefore, that when Alderman
Green three times regretted the “passing
of the legitimate theatre in Sydney” he
was met with a roar of protest.
A funny (and true) story comes from
Canberra about a little boy who burst
into tears when he saw the copy of
Magna Carta. “That’s not what I came
to see,” he bawled. “Where’s the magic
carpet you said you’d show me?”
☆ ☆ ☆
“Seagulls Over Sorrento” sailed into
Sydney on a very hot night, so most of
the dresses worn were of the ballerina-
length, swiss-organdie type, notably Bet-
tina Welch’s white organdie, deep-tucked
and embroidered with white berry-like
appliques. In the spectacular vein was
Mrs. S. Lands’s voluminous lilac organza,
its bodice all tucked and fluted like a
flower. Mrs. Tom Bateman’s vivid car-
mine chiffon stole excited attention. In
the front box sat Jessie Matthews in a
slim white chiffon dress with Trills cir-
culating round the skirt. Her daughter
Catherine wore black chiffon appliqued
with cream lace and draped with a
Brussels lace stole. Among the “first-
nighters” were Mr. and Mrs. G. Scam-
mell, Mr. and Mrs. D. Service, Mr. and
Mrs. Gordon Johnstone.
Sydney Symphony Orchestra at the Con-
servator! um on February 14. This will
be the third of the four concerts in the
Beethoven Summer Festival to he held
on February 6, 11, 14 and 17. Now 22,
Audrey made her debut as a pianist at
the age of 12, when she played at the
National Gallery concerts in Adelaide
In 1951 she was the Commonwealth
winner in the instrumental section of
the A.B.C.'s concerto and vocal competi-
tions. and last year was one of the soloists
at the Beethoven Festival in the Adelaide
Town Hall, Bookings for the Summer
Festival have been so heavy this year
that the A.B.C. has arranged to have the
concerts amplified to the lawns outside
the hall.
Talented pianist Audrey White, from
Adelaide, will play the Concerto No. 5
by Beethoven (the "Emperor") with the
It has been decided that the Fifth
Annual Opera Ball shall be held at the
Town Hall on Friday, April 17, not at
the Grace Auditorium on April 15 as
was announced at the inaugural meeting.
The committee are trying to make the
costume part of the ball its most im-
portant feature so as to have it like the
London Opera Ball, which is always such
an outstanding success.
☆ ☆ ☆
Designed to prolong the fun of the
party and to keep it fresh in memory is
the album which Lilian Herz has just
completed of the Back-to-1925 part\
which she and her sister Eva gave just
before Christmas. Candid shots of all the
guests have been pasted up, each with
a verse composed by Lilian (with some
help from Papa, Mr. E. S. Herz, of Wah-
roonga). Typical is the verse about Mar-
garet and Barry Kennedy and John
Houlihan:
Maggy looks a ’25 cutie
But Barry looks a little snooty;
Johnny looks radiant, full of laughter,
But how will he look the morning after!
Bill Williams, who was photographed
with Margaret Hocking, Kay Chadwick
and Jocelyn Kimber, may wonder why
“some may think his conduct
but it is only to rhyme with “Hocking.
Such are the exigencies of verse-making.
☆ * *
Overheard at “the Archibald about
the Dobell portrait where the subject is
shown with a distinctly ovoid cranium,
“Oh, now this must be one of those
‘egg-heads’ the young people talk about
(Egg-head is the latest word for an in-
tellectual.)


Missing Friend
BYRNE, Lawrence Arthur—formerly of
King's Cross, labourer. Will he," or
anyone knowing his address, please com-
municate J. J, KIELY, Solicitor, 17
Castlereagh Street, Sydney?
Will GEORGE EDWARD STENT or
anyone knowing his whereabouts kindly
communicate with PUBLIC TRUST
OFFICE, Feilding, New Zealand. Mi
Stent is thought to have resided in
Raetihi district up to about 1924 and
later may have gone to Australia.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. ... ... 2/-
Yearly 22/6
PAY
YOUR ACCOUNTS
THE
MODERN WAY
VA
A Commonwealth Bank Cheque
Account provides you with a safe,
speedy and convenient method of
paying accounts. No need to go
from place to place paying bills in
person, when you can so easily pay
by cheque.
Paying by cheque has other
advantages. It adds to your pres-
tige, shows clearly what you have
spent and where, and gives evi-
dence of payment in case of lost
receipts.
A Commonwealth Bank Cheque
Account is easy to open, simple to
use. Open one to-day. Cheque
Account facilities and complete
trading bank services are available
at all Branches.
COMMONWEALTH BANK
•THE BANK YOU OWN’
All Branches provide
every trading bank service.
CSB29-82
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Seagulls Over Sorrento”
To “laugh like a chief-stoker”
is a well-used lower-deck com-
ment, its origin being the belief
of seamen that the souls of chief-
stokers, when they die, inhabit
seagulls—seagulls beirtg prone to
constant squawking. The audi-
ence at Sydney Royal found
plenty to laugh at in this lightly
pleasant play about six ratings
and two officers stationed in a
disused naval fortress on post-
war experimental duty. But one
feels that any permanent-Navy
viewers will be inclined to laugh
like a chief-stoker.
One of the ratings, a petty-
officer, is supposed to be a nasty
bit of work. But he had been a
submarine cox’n, responsible to
the captain for the lower-deck
discipline in that cubbyhole of
camaraderie. Small-ship cox’n’s
are, of necessity, men of peculiar
perspicacity in matters of power
of command; the blustering,
bellowing p.-o. of “Seagulls”
would never have been recom-
mended for the rank.
He is punched on the jaw by
an able-seaman. Striking a
superior officer is, rightly, one of
the seven deadly sins. It carries
(and has carried, in present re-
viewer’s experience) 90 days’
cells and dismissal. But Lieut.-
Commander Redmond, the C. 0.,
washes out the charge, lectures
his men on the naughty thing
they’ve done and grants them
14 days’ leave. Normally, of
course, such an act would have
sent the C.O. in fear of his rings
for the rest of his career. The
fact that one of the able-seamen
threatens the p.-o. with disclo-
sure that he believes him to be
a coward, instead of mitigating
the offence, would aggravate it.
The main figure on the mess-
deck, in which all scenes are set,
is Able-Seaman Badger, played
by William Hodge. In the Navy
Badger is a very real—and reliev-
ing—character. He is the wit,
the discipline-scorning lower-
deck lawyer who never volun-
teers for any duty, and is always
on the spot when needed ; the
man who relieves a tragic situa-
tion with a salty quip, a really
solid type always ready to dig-in
with the mess-cooking, a first-
class example of tolerance and
mess-deck camaraderie to
younger ratings—one who will
never be anything but an able-
seaman, and one whom first-
lieutenants hope for as they hope
for fine weather on Admiral’s in-
spection. Hodge, however, while
delivering his needle-sharp dia-
logue with faultless authenticity,
betrays the character by reduc-
ing him to a shuffling, music-hall
comic.
One would like, also, while
on guardrail-critic duty, to re-
mind Lieut.-Commander Red-
mond, D. 5.0., D.S.C., R.N.,
that naval officers do not always
stand before their men with
hands thrust Beatty-like into
jacket-pockets —sometimes, like
more ordinary mortals, they
cross their arms over their
chests, sometimes they clasp
their hands behind their backs
and sometimes, even, tradition
regardless, they have been
known to put them in their
trouser-pockets.
Author Hastings has based
his play’s main appeal on repro-
ducing, for civilian consumption,
the witty invective of lower-deck
slanguage. This is done with a
meticulous accuracy at which no
matelot who remembers it will
cavil. Hastings served most of
his time in small motor-launches
in the Royal Navy—which ac-
counts, no doubt, for the
broader faults in disciplinary
presentation.
MACNELL.
Talkies
“We’re Not Married”
This very amiable comedy at
Sydney Mayfair gets away like
a rocket and, although its initial
burst isn’t altogether sustained,
it throws out enough bright
sparks of humor to make it
worth watching all the way.
The opening has to do with a
fumbling old josser who, appar-
ently as a reward for being the
Governor’s uncle, is made a
J.P., an appointment which, since
he lives in an American village
called Gretna Green, promises to
be pretty profitable with mar-
riages at two dollars a pop.
His first customers are a radio
actor and actress who are getting
spliced because it means a lucra-
tive radio contract for them as
Mr. and Mrs. Somebody, the per-
fect married couple at breakfast.
The proceedings then leap a
couple of years and to the State
capital, where the Governor,
the Attorney - General (his
cousin), the Governor’s secre-
tary (his niece) and the old J.P.
himself are in unhappy confer-
ence, the trouble being that the
old chap had leaped the gun by
a week and started marrying
people before his commission
was officially posted, with the
result that at least half a dozen
couples somewhere in the U.S.,
who presume they have been
living in wedlock for two years,
are living well and truly out of it.
So far, very good, with Victor
Moore doing a delightful job
as the addlepated Judge and
Ginger Rogers and Fred Allen
doing even better as the radio
couple—the Rogers has a fairly
shrewd appreciation of dry
comedy, and Allen, with a poker-
faced dial that might have been
chipped out of ironbark with a
blunt axe, seems like a magnifi-
cent successor to Ned Sparks.
The pace and flavor of the
comedy hold well with the next
scene as the story moves out to
examine the effects of the
Governor’s letter to each of the
couples. The radio couple are
the first for inspection. Their
programme has a dozen or more
sponsors and a nation-wide hook-
up, and, such is the warm human-
ity of their session, that people
listen openmouthed while their
porridge gets cold, and marriages
are saved and repaired by the
drooling mixture of advertise-
ment and sentimental philosophy
dished out over the air. Then
the Rogers and Allen in person,
living in bored hatred of each
other and only breaking their
silence to exchange venomous
insults, and only stopping that
when the lights say “on the air.”
The whole scene is a clinker,
with Miss Rogers performing like
as fine a spitcat as one might
imagine, and Allen, with a voice
like coarse sandpaper, giving a
comedy performance that is
worth bottling for future refer-
ence. The authors of the piece,
too, haven’t missed their target—
a rather obvious swipe at U.S.
commercial radio programmes
and advertising.
Thereafter the film sags a bit
as it looks over the other couples
—in one case the wife has just
won a Mrs. Mississippi contest;
in another the husband, a soldier,
is about to embark for overseas
what time his wife is expecting;
another concerns a couple of
bored socialites with the husband
playing around a lot and, when
he gets the Governor’s letter,
anticipating an even bigger fling ;
and another has to do with an
unpleasant little minx who
frames a watertight divorce suit
around her husband in the hope
of stripping him of most of his
money and possessions.
Most of it is quite lightly
amusing, but it could have
profited from a little more im-
agination and subtlety. Only
Louis Calhern’s turn as the pros-
perous and astute businessman
gone softheaded over the vicious
little blonde piece (Zsa Zsa
Gabor), who finally plants a pro-
fessional co-re. on him, measures
up to the opening sequences.
Calhern’s acting, as usual, is
admirable, and it’s worth watch-
ing the look on his phiz when his
wife’s lawyer says “The law says
half-each in the matter of pro-
perty, so that’s settled. What we
want to decide is how much of
your half she gets.”
The other couples are played
by Paul Douglas and Eve Arden,
David Wayne and Marilyn
Monroe, and Eddie Bracken and
Mitzi Gaynor.
❖ * *
“Sudden Fear”
The basic theme of this sus-
pense thriller at Sydney Century
is the not-unfamiliar one of the
husband who, with the aid of his
mistress, plans to bump off his
wealthy wife. It is when the
wife, a successful playwright, is
accidentally made aware of the
doings that the plot of the story
leaves the well-beaten track.
A concatenation of circum-
stances forces her back on her
own resources, and, after the first
sudden onrush of panic and
bitter disillusionment —for the
husband had kept up a fine pre-
tence orf affection —she sets about
calmly and with meticulous
thoroughness to encompass the
destruction of her would-be de-
stroyers. Her nerve fails at the
vital moment, but poetic justice
is dealt out from another direc-
tion and in quite an ingenious
manner.
There is a tendency to drag in
the early part, but once the wife’s
plan is set in train tension is
kept to the tautness of a fiddle-
string right to the end, and in
this the camera has also been
used with artistry.
Joan Crawford handles the
role of the wife with felicity and
facility, and a newcomer, Jack
Balance, who is able to conjure
an expression that would make
any rattlesnake light out terror-
stricken for the horizon, does
reasonably well as the sinful
spouse. Gloria Graham is the
third side of the triangle.
♦> ♦> ❖
“Above and Beyond”
Made with the co-operation of
the U.S. Defence Department
and the Air Force, this M.-G.-M.
film at Sydney St. James sets out
to record the part the Air Force
played in the project which cul-
minated in the first atomic ex-
plosion —though it puts the
greatest stress on the career of
Lt.-Colonel Paul Tibbetts, pilot
of the plane bearing its egg to
Hiroshima.
The producer was immediately
faced with a pressing problem.
A bald account of the technical
and operational difficulties to be
overcome, the intensive training,
security measures, etc., might not
have been popular at the box-
office. A place had therefore to
be made for Romance among
the stresses, strains and nuclear
fission. As a consequence the
impact on his young wife and
family of the colonel’s secret
selection for the task, his grow-
ing absorption with its ramifica-
tions and his seeming neglect of
the wife are played up for more
than they are worth.
Despite that weakness, there is
much of absorbing interest. The
various flight-sequences, with
all the unpredictable hazards of
the then-experimental 829 which
had to be modified to carry the
bomb, the American genius for
organisation on a gigantic scale,
the planning at several levels,
the mounting tension as the hour
for the world-shattering event
approaches these have been
moulded together with great
skill. Here, nothing is over-
stressed, and pervading it all is
the one-ness of purpose, the in-
flexible determination, the gal-
lantry of the crew —for the film
is, on the final analysis, a tribute
to heroism, to men venturing
into the unknown.
As Colonel Tibbetts, Robert
Taylor does little else, outside a
few irritable verbal passes at
his puzzled wife, except register-
tight - lipped determination.
Eleanor Parker is the wife. A
couple of excellent character-
studies are limned by Larry
Keating and James Whitmore.
❖ ❖ ♦j'-
Other New Releases
“What Price Glory?” (Sydney
Plaza): John Ford’s remake of
the old film classic. With James
Cagney, Dan Dailey and Corinne
Calvert. “One Minute to Zero”
(Sydney Park): Robert Mitcham
and the war in Korea. Also Ann
Blyth. “Bronco Buster” (Sydney
Capitol): Rodeos and rough-
riders ; with John Lund, Scott
Brady, Joyce Holden and Chill
Wills. “The Winning Team”
(Sydney Civic): Ronald Reagan
and Doris Day in a biography of
Grover Cleveland Alexander, a
bygone baseball champ.
Artbursts
French Paintings
Provided it isn’t wrecked or
lost at sea again the exhibition
of “French Painting Today,”
arranged between Australian and
French Governments, should
follow its original around-
Australia schedule.
There are 117 paintings and
one large tapestry by Gromaire,
representing 77 artists, among
them Picasso, Rouault, Derain,
Braque, Chagall, Utrillo, Matisse,
Dufy, Miro, Leger and a
number of younger painters
whose work is unknown in
Australia.
The exhibition should open in
Hobart from January-February;
Sydney, March-April; Brisbane,
April-May; Melbourne, June-
July ; Adelaide, August; Perth,
September,
It is the first exhibition
arranged by the State Galleries
to which the Commonwealth
Government has agreed to con-
tribute pound for pound up to
£l5OO in any one year.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ❖
F. Veinberg, a Latvian New
Australian showing watercolors
at the Melbourne Athenaeum,
gives indications of training in
the academies of Europe and
no indication of having been
caught up in modern fashions.
His technical facility is not ex-
tensive, but this is probably an
advantage. Having technical
facility often allows an artist to
tell more lies than he could if he
didn’t have it. Veinberg paints
street - scenes in Latvia and
Sweden and a few in Melbourne,
but his feeling here is attenu-
ated. He is more robust in his
nudes, posed presumably on
Melbourne beaches when the
inspector wasn’t watching. They
suggest that he had something
before him, which is more than
can be said for his more roman-
tic landscapes.


Home to Mother
by A. REYNOLDS
HE studied her for several
minutes by means of the
rear-vision mirror, then
ventured: “Spend a lot
of time at the beach?”
“Why?”
“That’s a pretty good, tan.”
“I’ve been in New Guinea
two years.”
“Yeah? How’d you like it?”
“Not much. That’s the nouse
—second on the left.”
Beyond the low stone wall
half an acre of garden-flanked
lawn stretched smoothly to a
sprawling, stuccoed house,
whose red-tiled roof threw off
the shimmering heat of the
summer day.
“Your people live there?”
“No.”
He looked relieved. “It re-
minds me of a small sana-
torium.”
She laughed, then, and, open-
ing the door, slid her airways-
case out onto the grass border
of the wid6 suburban street.
“What’s the damage?”
The sum he mentioned was
lower than she’d anticipated. He
grinned as he took it. “Going
to be there long?”
“A couple of hours.”
“I could call back.”
“About twelve.”
“Twelve it is.”
She picked up the suitcase,
walked across to the wrought-
iron gate and opened it. The
gravel on the drive magnified
the sound of her steps ; it was
the only sound disturbing the
still, morning quiescence. It was
not until she reached the side-
door that she heard the taxi purr
into life.
MORNING-TEA was laid in
the long sun-room. Having
ushered her niece in, Myra be-
gan, agitatedly, to close and re-
open windows, pull at the cur-
tains and fuss with the paper
d’oyleys on the tea-table.
“It is nice to see you back,
Joyce,” she said for the sixth
time since she had opened the
side-door. “You must tell me
all about New Guinea. Father
will be in shortly. He’s been
pottering around the back-gar-
den all the morning. I do
worry about him, you know,
The doctor has told him re-
peatedly that he mustn’t exert
himself, but he pays no atten-
tion. He spends so much time
in the garden; it’s dangerous in
this weather. He could so easily
get sunstroke. And it isn’t as if
there’s any need for him to be
there at all. The gardener who
comes on Mondays and Wednes-
days does quite a good job. He
certainly charges enough for
it”
Joyce, lounging in a chair
whose comfort was almost
luxurious, extracted a large, flat
tin from her handbag, opened
it, selected a cigarette and was
about to light it when the
changed inflection in her aunt’s
voice caused her to look up.
“You know how Father feels
about smoking.”
It was both a reproof and a
plea. Joyce looked in vain for
an ash-tray ; ultimately deposited
the offending weed in the
rhododendrons beneath the
window. .
He had aged a great deal in
two years. Joyce observed, as
he stood in the doorway, how
the stoop of his shoulders was
now more emphatic and the lines
in his face more deeply en-
graved. .
Ah. Joyce.” His voice
sounded older, too.
“Yes, it’s me,” she said
inanely.
He sat down, dabbing his
forehead with a handkerchief.
“Is it as hot as this up there?”
“Up in New Guinea? It’s
hotter.”
“Don’t know how you can
stand it.”
“You get used to it.”
“You aren’t going back?”
“I have six weeks’ leave,” she
said evasively. “After that-fl
don’t know. It depends.”
“On what?” Myra’s tone was
as brittle as the clink of the
fragile cup and saucer which she
handed to Joyce.
On what? Perhaps on whether
that elusive thing, which had
been read between the lines of
letters, would take a definite
form. Letters meant a lot up
there. Thrice weekly the plane
which droned in from beyond
the mountains and ploughed a
foaming furrow in the Rabaul
harbor was watched with almost
animism. Time was calculated
in the departure and return of
the launch to the battered wharf ;
in the native office-boy pedalling
his bicycle along the dirt road
that led to the post-office. Hope
was the slim, blonde girl who
sorted the mail who walked
unemotionally from desk to
desk...
There seemed so much more
than calligraphy and conven-
tional phrasing “Sunday used
to be the brightest day m the
week. It used to liven us up
having you to dinner. It is so
very quiet now.”
It was quiet now. A warm
breeze stirred the curtains and
the paper doyleys ; mingled
garden fragrance with the time-
infused aromas of tea, lemon and
furniture-polish.
“You haven t seen Amy yet,
I suppose?"
Then, quite suddenly, it wasn’t
peaceful any mor p.
6 6T DO wish he hadn’t brought
1 the subject up,” said Myra
plaintively as she opened the
front-door. He says, so often,
that any mention of your
mother upsets him, and yet he
talks about her himself fre-
quently, and always gets so
worked up. It’s so bad for his
health, you know. Must you
really go now? Father will be
taking his afternoon nap shortly
and I thought we could have a
long talk—you remember how
we usec J rm sorry 8? 1
so upset, but you were perfectly
right—you cant just ignore your
mother, however much she might
deserve that. You 11 come
around for dinner on Sunday?
“Yes. If you want me to.” -
“Of course I want you to.
Myra’s voice was not over-
whelmingly enthusiastic; there
was an intonation of doubt in
it. “But—you won’t mention
your mother, will you—l mean,
Father is sure to want to know
how she’s looking and what she
had to say, and once he has
something to start him off he’ll
talk about her for the rest of
the afternoon. So don’t tell him
anything if you can help it.”
“I’ll be the soul of discretion.
Myra’s thin, colorless lips
levered themselves into a smile
with visible effort as she opened
the door. “There s a taxi out-
side.” . „
“Yes. I ordered it.
“Sure you wont stay to
dinner? Father is generally^ in
a good temper at meal-times.
“Thank you, no. I’ll see you
on Sunday.”
The door shut almost immedi-
ately behind her. Her feet
crunched once more on the
gravel drive. The wrought-iron
gate swung open noiselessly and
shut with a resounding clangor.
“Where to? ’
“The Cross. m
“That s more like it.
“Think so.
“Relatives of yours live
there? He jerked his thumb
towards the house.
“Yes.”
“1 suppose they were glad to
see you.” „
‘They seemed to
He drove slowly down the
street
The same old feud, she said
suddenly. .
He grinned and regretted it
when he observed in the mirror
that she wasn’t smiling.
W67}ABE.
The patrons of Nicky s
were startled into involuntary
appraisal of the lithe, dark-
haired, Romany-lookmg waitress
whose shnU exclamation was
followed by a dramatic dash to
the mam door, and the convul-
sive embrace of a somewhat
younger replica of herself
“Well! How wonderful! You
wrote that you’d be in on this
morning’s plane and I was going
out to Mascot to meet you—
really I was—but I was up to
my neck in work and I just
couldn’t make it. Nicky’s a
slave-driver; you’ve no idea.
But never mind him” —she
stepped back and surveyed her
daughter critically—“you’re cer-
tainly looking well. The islands
must have agreed with you. Had
any lunch?”
“No.”
“I knock off in ten minutes.
Look, you can go round to the
flat now.” She fumbled in the
pocket of her black dress and
produced a key. “I’ll be round
the moment I’ve finished here.”
“All right.”
“Is that taxi out there waiting
for you?”
“Yes.”
“Nice-looking driver.”
“I haven’t really noticed. He
drove me up to Linville this
morning and has been hanging
round ever since.”
“Linville! And how are the
old fogies up there? Never
mind ; you can tell me later.”
She was gone, and there were
the waxy blobs of faces studded
with glassily-curious eyes.
Milk-shake mixers began a
metallic grind; the juke-box
emitted a resonant whine.
With a loftily enigmatic smile
Joyce walked across the pave-
ment and entered the taxi.
THE flat was a segment of a
baldly-utilitarian block. It
was described as self-contained,
provided, of course, that the
self was not subjected to wide,
exuberant arm-flinging, and this
contingency seemed guarded
against by the depressing view
of the nextdoor wall: there was
nothing in that dark brick to
inspire anything but a recipro-
cally dark stare.
Nothing had changed. There
was still a sketch of Amy hang-
ing above the bed-settee! It had
been executed by an admirer of
Amy’s, and she kept it (she
maintained) as an example of
what might happen to a woman
should she neglect her daily
beauty care. Amy’s huge ward-
robe, which had been hauled up
to the first floor by half a dozen
of Amy’s admirers, still occu-
pied a third of the bed-sitting-
room. The air was musty with
the faint scent from a wilting
corsage which lay in a saucer of
water on the small table.
She saw a different aspect of
the flat—a solidity, a perman-
ence that was not denoted by
sarking, arch-mesh and corru-
gated-iron. She opened the win-
dow, and while assailed by the
odors of petrol and cafes tried
to remember the sulphuretted
hydrogen of Matupit.
Amy entered with her arms
full of parcels.
“Lunch won’t take long,” she
announced, dumping the parcels
on the table. “I’ve simply loads
of questions to ask you. You
never said much in your letters.”
“There wasn’t anything much
to say.”
“Don’t tell me that.” She
swept into the kitchen with
several of the parcels. Her
voice rose above the clatter of
saucepans: “I met a chap some
months ago who told me that
there are about twelve men to
every one woman in the islands.”
“Yes, I suppose it would be
about that.”
“And you say there was noth-
ing to write aboutl”
“Oh, the social life was pretty
good. You don’t mind if I have
a cigarette, do you?”
“Good grief, when have I ever
objected to you doing anything?
Go ahead. You mustn’t smoke
too much, though. It’s ageing.
By the way, you haven’t told me
how I look.”
“Just the same.”
“Stewart —you haven’t met
Stewart yet —asked me how old
I was the other night. I knocked
off ten years and told him I was
thirty-three. And he was sur-
prised. He thought I was years
younger than that!”
She must have sensed tacit
disapproval in the ensuing
silence, for when she again spoke
it was without the giggling
tremolo.
“Set the table, will you, Joy?
Lunch won’t be long.”
i i /~\F course I kept my letters
merry and bright. I
didn’t want you to know I was
worrying about you. At one
time I was nearly frantic.”
“Why? When was that?”
“You’d been up there six
months and then Mount Laming-
ton erupted. I heard about it
over the wireless in Nicky’s
kitchen. I was horrified. I
rushed out into the dining-room
—I didn’t know what to do—
and then I noticed that uni-
versity crowd in a corner, so I
asked them how far Rabaul was
from Mount Lamington. They
just looked at me in amaze-
ment. X began to cry—l couldn’t
help it—and one of the boys
went out and phoned the
Mitchell Library, or some such
place, and found out for me.
So thoughtful of him.”
“Very.”
“And then in one letter you
mentioned a —what was it?—an
earth-tremor a guria yes,
that’s the word. A guria. Think-
ing of that nearly drove me
silly.”
“But they’re nothing. They
happen quite frequently, and no
one takes any notice of them.”
“Well, they must be a very
casual bunch of people up there,
that’s all I can say. Another cup
of coffee?”
“Thanks.”
“You only have six weeks
down here, don’t you?”
“That’s all.”
“Mm. Well, that’s plenty of
time, isn’t it? We’ll have lots of
fun in that time. Now, I don’t
want you to feel upset about
this, but”
“You have a date tonight.”
“Why, yes, as a matter of fact,
I have. I would have broken it
only Bob is going down to Mel-
bourne tomorrow, and I won't
see him again for months, and it
would be mean of me not to go
out with him on his last night in
Sydney. You understand, don’t
you?”
“Sure.”
“There’s no need for that tone
of voice. I work darned hard,
babe, and I think I’m entitled to
a bit of fun now and then.”
“Yes, yes, I know.” Hastily.
“I knew you wouldn’t mind.
Conciliatorily. “We’ll go out
tomorrow night. See a show or
something. Anyway, I’ve a
couple of hours free now, so we
may as well go out and do some
window-shopping. You’ve been
away a long time ; you’d better
get reacquainted with Sydney.”
As they left the flat and
strolled .along the street Joyce
became really aware, for the first
((Continued on page 22)


(ADVERTISEMENT)
¥i
smm
mmwM
A
(O)M§
KB.
fiPIT
MAM
O/Tr
\
u
labor
fas mstecf
/n////ons on
fa/f-f/n/sfac/
7>oBl/C
WORKS/
NOT ONE MAJOR WORK COMPLETED
The N.S.W. Labor Government has had more loan money to spend than any other Government in
Australia's history, but it has squandered it recklessly. The countryside has become a graveyard of
unfinished public works, abandoned and rapidly deteriorating.
RECORD FUNDS. In the last three years N.S.W. has been
allocated the huge sum of £175,000,000 by the Loan Council. The
average yearly grant is more than the total borrowed in the seven years
before the war, but not one single major undertaking has been
completed. Millions have been spent in commencing a multitude of
works, instead of concentrating on the most important ones and getting
the benefit of their production.
PRIORITY FOR THE CITY. The principal expenditure
has been on electricity and transport projects of benefit, almost
exclusively, to the city. Vital country works, such as dam construction,
rail links and port works, as well as hospitals and schools, have been
slowed down or suspended altogether.
WHY WORKS HAVE BEEN CURTAILED, n*
Cahill Government has deliberately attempted to mislead the people
by blaming the Federal Government for the abandonment of works
and wholesale sackings of its workmen. Loan money allocated
N.S.W. this year by the Loan Council is still a record. The works
programme had to be curtailed because Labor recklessly started more
jobs than it could possibly pay for.
Half-completed schools and hospitals, overgrown permanent ways, idle dredges and
abandoned works litter the countryside. This criminal waste is the result of Labor bungling.
ITS TIME FOR A CHANGE OF GOVERNMENT-
VOTE
"The Country Party Fights for Country People's Rights"
(Authorised by J. F. Dredge, 42 Bridge Street, Sydney )


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Eitensire Grounds and Build-
ings. * Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
O. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc..
ARTS
Circular Charts for ail type*
of Recording Instruments
lor mjr dut of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS • SpeeUHy
(vs'iiiti VAN^IL
QUEE N STREET, BRISBANE
Saint
by JAMES HACKSTON
WHEN he barked the lamp
went out!
He was our second
dog,
and by the large lock, stock and
barrel of him he might have been
a* lion almost, disguised as dog.
I got him as a pup and trained
him to hate Indian hawkers.
They were not all women-
oglers though. There were the
decent Indians who travelled in
vans, and who never gave us any
trouble. They used to camp up
the road, and would sit'round
their campfire of a night singing
their weird songs and beating
some sort of a drum. My brother
and I could never agree about
the drum. He said it was their
frying-pan they beat; but I said
it was a special Indian drum —I
preferred something more
mysterious than a common
frying-pan.
Their camp made a good
picture, too: turbans blazing
with light against the starry
blossom of the sky. We used to
snake along to these concerts
(uninvited), and, pressed close
to the ground, watch the
ceremony and listen to the
strange chanting which sounded
something like
Ahlah eely ahlah eelah,
Ahlee ahlah eelah ahlah
and went on indefinitely. But
they provided such mysterious
excitement and secret entertain-
ment that they collected'no cow-
dung from the audience.
The solitary Indians —on foot
with pack on back were
smirkets and scrapers mostly,
and some of them were trouble-
some. These * hawkers slept in
the open, rolled-up in a blanket
and looking for all the world like
mummies.
AND so I had another dog in
training for them. Maybe
deep down in my heart I was
pleased I had an excuse to own
a fierce dog I would be proud of,
and that there were some bad
Indian hawkers about. As we
had to destroy Saint’s savage
brother, I had promising
material to work on with Saint.
I would be important again, too.
I’d not forgotten how big the
other dog had made me feel
when it became known he had
to be shot and a trooper had
ridden out specially from the
town about it.
I sometimes forget exactly why
he had to be done away with, for
I used to make up so many tall
yarns about that cannibal, too,
that fact and fiction have become
lost in each other. But I
remember the “firing-squad” (a
man with a shotgun) and that
after the death-sentence had
been carried out I informed the
school there were two troopers
with rifles. I also remember
walking into the school most
dramatically and that boys gaped
and the girls (I thought) stared
with awe when I made the shat-
tering statement ihat it took six
bullets to kill him.
Naturally enough, having
experienced such public
notoriety, I looked forward to
owning the cannibal’s huge
brother; but the reason for the
abnormal height this fellow
attained remained one of the
secrets of the gods.
I started him on my own
special course of training from
the jump, and, apart from
Indians, made up my mind to
make him as fierce as the other
dog had been. I might add that
although I would have denied
most vehemently such a base
charge (had such a base charge
been levelled against me) I,
although not even admitting it to
myself, hoped secretly that one
day Saint might also be con-
demned to die like a soldier —I
think I had a statement ready for
the school that Saint took twice
as many bullets to die as his
brother had found necessary.
With the aid of a cloth wound
round my head and dressed in a
grown-up’s clothes, I threw clods
at young Saint from an unrecog-
nisable distance, and, to instil
the true spirit of hatred of
Indians into him, saw to it that
certain clods, when thrown, con-
nected successfully with the
pupil. This technique yielded
rich results, and by the time he
was five months old I had him
Indian-mad.
\I7HEN Saint was just under
™ six months old, the trooper
came nosing round about the
dog-licence, and Saint worked
himself into a frenzy (at his age,
mind you!). Screams instead of
barks, too!
“Got him registered?” the
trooper asked.
“No,” I said. “He’s only a
pup yet —not six months old.”
“Pup?” he smirked. “If he’s a
pup, my horse is a foal.”
“He’s nearly six months;
that’s all,” X said. Then proudly.
“We had to shoot his brother
with a rifle.” (No rank perjury
here only one rifle, you’ll
notice.)
“You might have to shoot this
fellow if you don’t keep him
tied up,” the trooper said.
I felt proud of Saint’s progress.
From then on Saint grew up
tremendously and I put him on
a heavier chain, for the mere
sight of “a passing turban sent him
off his head, and on such violent
occasions the departing turban
accelerated, and you could smell
the cheap soaps and perfumes
receding swiftly up the road.
It wasn’t all fun having to feed
him. For a while he nearly ate
us out of house and home. Then,
whenever anybody close-by
killed, calf or sheep, I’d be there
with my sack for the “left-over.”
His menu in between such blood-
building blowouts was rabbit,
with pollard as a savory. Some-
times I’d have a few mouthfuls,
too —pollard, not the blood-
builder.
With such energetic feeding
he kept on enlarging and expand-
ing, and his bark developed
accordingly. When he spoke he
went off like a cannon. I kidded
people that one night I took him
inside our house to bark the cob-
webs off the rafters, and the
force of his blast (as I said at
the beginning) blew the lamp
out.
In keeping with his character
he couldn’t be let off the chain
easily or tied up again easily likf
any ojther dog. Oh, Lord no!
When I had to let him free to
take him for a run in the back
bush you’d have thought a willy-
willy had struck our shed, made
up of dog, boy, bones, bags, dirt,
stale food, fleas and chain-links.
Caught in this dizzy inferno,
he’d roll me and flatten me to
the violent accompaniment of
the thrashing chain and his mad,
wild, joyous barking, while huge
engulfing licks drowned me in a
sea of slo.bber and froth.
The technique of tying him up
again was different. In this case
it was purely strength against
strength, guile against guile. I
had to'scheme, plot and plan to
get him within cooee of the shed
again. As for how long it did
take to tie him up, I must have
held the record for that, and I
have a hazy recollection that
whenever I’d been away from
school my note to the teacher
generally explained that I “had
to tie the dog up.”
AT school I was now telling
more tall yarns about him,
and one was that when I was out
with him and had him looking
up a rabbit-burrow, a rabbit ran
out and when Saint opened
h.s mouth in surprise the rabbit
ran into his mouth and
disappeared.
Tadpole Flynn, who was a bit
of a thinker, said that .. ich a
thing could happen provided the
dog’s throat was big enough.
Next I told him that, when
Saint opened his mouth later on
t'o yawn, the rabbit ran out
again.
Tadpole Flynn made no
comment.
“And six young rabbits ran
out after her,” I added.
Heavy silence here.
“She had them while she was
inside him,” I said triumphantly ;
and I drew some of the males
aside, and. informed them that
ever since then Saint always kept
his mouth shut tight when
passing a burrow; he wasn’t
going to take any risks and have
his inside turne'd into a maternity
hospital.
Surge of ribald laughter. Then
Emily Whittle popped up and
said she’d heard me; she was
going to tell the teacherjs wife
the rude thing I’d said —too
delicate a matter for a modest
young lady to repeat to a
gentleman.
I felt a bit of a devil and went
home feeling pretty wicked.
WHEN the school holidays
were on I took Saint over
the hills where I’d seen
kangaroos. I wanted to see him
chase one —maybe catch one.
The way was through rough
unsettled country, and there was
no need to take him on a lead.
And besides, I wanted him to
have a good run ; he had the
easy movements of the retriever,
and for”a big dog could go some.
I can still see that breathless
amphitheatre of hills where every
sound was amplified. “Saint!”
I’d call, and the echoes flooded
and rolled. Sound was magni-
ficent, But the country had been
changed a bit: wide reaches of
bush had been cut down to make
way for grass evidently, and the
hot air was full of the dry smell
of dead leaves.
We had not come across any
kangaroos, but, as we came
towards open country, the bleat
of a sheep broke the., silence with
startling clarity, and in the frac-
tion of a second the vast amphi-
theatre filled to the- echoes of
Saint’s v tremendous and high-
pitched baying as he raced away
from me.
When I got to him he had a
sheep down and I fell on him
and beat him with my clenched
fists; but I might as well have
belted my bare knuckles against
a rock for all the notice he took
of me. I linked my arms round
him and pulled to get him away
from it. The sheep was dead.
Hanging on to him I yelled
hysterically at the rest of them to
frighten them away as they
clustered together, facing us,
bleating and baaing. Saint
plunged, broke my grip and was
off again. Fearfully I looked
round as if at that moment one
of the station men would come
riding up and find me with the
dead sheep, and I raced in pur-
suit, to find him with another one
down, and I kicked and beat
him. Again he took no notice
of me, and I was helpless, look-
ing at Ijie blood and the sheep’s
still, frightened, sightless eyes.
If only I’d brought something
to lead him with in case anything
happened! Not a thing about
me to hold him with ; and I had
to do something! I looked at
my pants ; they’d been cut down
for me and reached well down
below my knees and were pinned
at the waist with a couple of
big safety-pins. While he was at
the sheep I pulled the pants off
and got his head in the crutch
of them and screwed the legs
round like a corkscrew. I could
tighten or loosen the grip at will,
and I had a good hold to hang
on to. The dread of being dis-
covered with two dead sheep
now gave me added strength,
and I dragged him away and
clear of the place and, with the
tail of my short shirt well up
above my behind, led the captive
through the bush. When I
reached safe country I unwound
the pants and put them on again.
Saint was , a sheep-killer!
Never would I tell a soul'of what
had happened —nor would I be
telling any funny stories at
schpol about this trip with him.
All humor had been knocked out
of me.
BUT my exciting day was not
yet over —not by a long shot
—and what I was to go through
was more upsetting still.
How was I to know when 1
took the short-cut across their
paddock that the Spitters had
(of all times!) a pet lamb there?
But I didn’t let Saint get away
this time; holding him fiercely
I had my pants off and cork-
screwed round his neck in
double-quick time.
The Spitters, as we called
them, were the two best long-
distance spitters at school (the
older one was champion), and
when they heard Saint’s thunder
they burst out of their place and
came tearing across the paddock,
and Saint began to buck and
plunge about more excitedly than
ever and I did not know whether
it was to get at the lamb or at
them. But I’d noticed that
although he was pulling hard he
did not seem to be doing it as
savagely and ferociously as
before, and it flashed through my
mind that my young sister had
wandered into the shed and sat
on hirq, and he did no more than
lick her. I wasn’t taking any
risks, though, and hung on to
him for dear life.
When the Spitters got up near
they halted, and, as I strove
desperately to hold Saint, and at
the same time keep him as a
shield between them and myself,
the younger one yelled out that
I had no pants on.
“Go back!” I called.
Then the champion turned
her head away in mock modesty
and said “A gentleman doesn't
have his pants off in front of
ladies! ”
“You’re not a lady if you
look! ” I fired back.
“Pooh!” she said. “Who
wants to look at a skinny-
looking rabbit like you?” She
stuck her nose in the air. “You
don’t look much like a
gentleman !”
Here Saint reared and plunged
about, and, strive as I would,
my back was now turned to
them.
“He, he, he,” she giggled.
“Look at the skinned rabbit!”
“Go away!” I said despair-
ingly. Then, in the stress and
hatred of the moment, “Or I’ll
let him loose! ”
But she was like her big
German father and had no fear
of animals.
With a fierce effort I dragged
Saint away to the privacy of a
stump and as I did so, much as
I fought against it, could not
keep my hindquarters from fac-
ing round to the enemy, and,
with feelings of indignation,
chagrin and disgust, felt, as soft
as falls the gentle rain from
heaven, a light shower of damp-
ness hit the cheeks of my bare
behind.
. It was the champion’s last say
before they both tore home
again in high glee, romping and
pirouetting over the field as they
went and singing merrily, loudly,
derisively and triumphantly to
the whole wide world that I had
no pants on.
From then on, and of the
journey home, I remember a
spiritless young gentleman travel-
ling sadly and dejectedly in the
blind fog of his sorely-disturbed
mind, mortified and crestfallen,
humbled and degraded, but, out
of the deepest and direst depths
of his misery, still conscious
enough evidently to conduct his
affairs in a decent and orderly
manner. He had his pants on
when he got home.
T KNEW what would happen
when school started again, and,
in conformity with my miser-
able prognostications, a lot of
the girls pinned me up against
the acacia-tree.
“Go away! ” I said. “Go on;
get away!”
At this they formed a ring
round the trunk of the tree, and,
clasping hands, danced round
and round me, singing “Who had
his pants off? Who had his
pants off?”
“By crikey, I warn you!” I
said, meaning that I would dea
with them in no uncertain way.
Then they came and stood
A DREAM
I wandered once to a strange
land.
And stood upon its shore;
Of black trees there were seven,
And of black rocks a score.
On each tree there was a fruit,
In each fruit a stone;
And the stones were the same as
the rocks were,
And the flesh was like my own.
Each stone held a secret
And would for ever more—
So I danced across the black
rocks
And wept upon the shore.
N.S.W.
PAMELA WEST.
CROW
That black crow is a shadow
Snipped from an evil man.
Cast from the gates of a burning
Shadowless hell and thrown
Hooded and'dark and desperate
To forage, untethered, alone.
Crow, crow, or shadow,
How does a shadow feel?
What does a shadow feed on—
Cindery flakes from flame
When the bushfire burns and
rages
And the thin dark ash is blown?
I take the golden locust
I peck at the living lamb,
All things bright and beautiful,
All things small and alone.
I swallow the living that being
May enter my veins from their
own.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


HEMMI
Bamboo Slide Rules
available in both conventional
Mannheim and 'Duplex types, com-
bined with Engine Divided Scales of
the utmost precision and accuracy.
E. ESDAILE & SONSItd
42 Hunter St., Sydney. BW 8631.
HEMMI Slide Rules
are constructed from
laminated bamboo in
both stock and slide.
The wide range avail-
able ensures the selec-
tion of a rule for
every application.
time, of the sights, the sounds,
the smells of the city and of that
disturbing staleness of the air
which is like the bouquet of a
wine which has passed its vint-
age.
A MY appeared at four a.m.
“I didn’t expect you to be
still awake.”
“I get bouts of insomnia
occasionally.”
“Oh? By the way, that taxi-
driver called into Nicky's
yesterday evening just as I was
leaving. I forgot to tell you.
We’re going to a dance with
them tonight.”
“Them?”
“Stewart and Clem.”
“Clem?”
“That’s the name of the taxi-
driver,” explained Amy patiently,
“I don’t particularly want to
go out with him.”
“Why not? He seems a very
pleasant man. He said you
shooed him off after he brought
you round here yesterday.”
“Well, I think he has a nerve! ”
dear.”
“I thought—oh, well”
“You didn’t tell me how you
got on at Linville,”
“They were just the same.
Why don’t you go and see
the old man? He looks rather
ill; and even though he does fly
into a rage when your name’s
mentioned I” think that’s just a
pose. He really misses you.”
“That’s too bad.”
“But it wouldn’t hurt you to
see him”
“Forget it and go to sleep.”
“You know, I did a lot of
thinking up in New Guinea.”
“Mm?” Sleepily.
“About the arguments we used
to have. You said I was narrow-
minded. I guess you were right,
in a way.”
“Mm.”
“It occurred to me —please
don’t take this the wrong way—
that maybe mourning can be-
come a type of aphrodisiac.”
There was no response. Per-
haps, Joyce reflected, it was as
well that Amy did not hear.
T IKE old times —the interior
' of the nightclub, the bleat-
ing of the band, the inland sea
of dancing-space and the clus-
tered islands of tables. Amy
listening to Stewart as though
his words were hypnotic—but
how could any man with taste
wear a tie like that? —her dazzl-
ing, smiling response to his
feeble jokes, her own coruscat-
ing repartee.
“May as well try it out,” sug-
gested Clepi, indicating the
dance-floor.
Their feet slurred softly across
the polished wood.
“That chap, Stewart; he
isn’t”
“My father? No.”
“1 didn’t think so, really.”
“Dad was killed during the
war.”
“Oh.”
“It happened a fair while ago.
Forget it. Have you seen that
play at the Royal?”
“Not yet.” '
“I read about it in the paper
yesterday afternoon. It sounds
g00d...”
Like old times. Not quite.
Passing dancers still wore ex-
pressions of soulfulness, or was
it somnolence? Impossible to
tell in t.he subdued light. But
there was a blatancy about faces,
a mechanical aspect about move-
ments, a sensation of detach-
ment, almost of isolation, about
herself.
The music stopped. They re-
turned to the table, had another
drink.
“Stewart is a wonderful
dancer,” announced Amy, beam-
ing at him and covertly massag-
ing her bruised feet beneath the
table. She looked across at her
daughter. “Just like the old
days, isn’t it?”
Of course. It was just like
this before. Precisely like this.
Memory modifies things too
much.
She finished her-drink quickly
and stepped onto the floor with
Clem.
C|HE kept up a bright line of
Spatter; heard Clem’s
laughter: the rapport of effer-
vescent triviality was estab-
lished. It was maintained even
when reality and retrospection
fused, and she realised the simi-
larity of pattern.
Delightful, isn’t it, dancing on
concrete under the stars and the
Chinese lanterns? And that
frangipani glorious scent.
That tune is rather good, too. I
can’t see you—or is it me ?
in your eyes. What an idea!
Mine are as blue as the harbor ?
I don’t know if I like that com-
parison. Think of all the wreck-
age lying in it. No, I think it’s
the reflection of that big yellow
moon. Like a gilded coconut,
isn’t it ? Marvellous how coco-
nut-conscious you become up
here. Life-blood of the place.
Indisputably your hrilliantine
has a copra base. Imagine any-
thing so aromatic being pro-
duced from that oleaginous
copra! How long in the
tropics ? Oh, easily that. It’s
such an easy life; can’t help
getting attached to it. They’re
putting on another record. You
prefer to sip this one out ? Good
idea.
Why did I come up here ?
Why does anyone come up here ?
Why, for example, did you come
up here ? Don’t look so
alarmed ! Let’s put it down to a
sense of adventure. You con-
sider the white population un-
adventurous and stodgy ? I
wouldn’t say that. Don’t let’s
talk about them. Tell me, when
do you go back to your planta-
tion? As soon as that ?
Well
No, I don’t intend to settle
down here. Oh, I know a lot
of the girls have married and
converted those dreadful-looking
houses into homes with water-
paint and camphor-wood furni-
ture. And No, there’s noth-
ing wrong. I just don’t like that
record they’re playing. It’s a
bit on the sentimental side, isn’t
it?
THE music stopped ; the lights
flickered and the mood of
stimulated gaiety preceded them
from the club and was lost in
the chilly darkness of the street.
There was a constrained silence
between Joyce and Clem; the
quietness of Amy and Stewart,
however, had an intimate, exclu-
sive quality.
At the main doors of the flats
they stopped, and the silence
seemed to There wqs
a brazenly-eager expression on
Stewart’s face as he looked at
Amy; she responded with a
hardly perceptible but definitely
negative inclination of her head,
a brief glance at Joyce and a
slight smile at Stewart; a gesture
conveying explanation and pro-
vocative regret. Joyce turned
away abruptly and feigned in-
terest in the little paludrine
tablet of a moon ’way beyond
the jagged skyline. Amy and
Stewart moved off into the
shadow of an adjacent shop-
front.
“They’ve got it rather badly.”
“It won’t last, Amy’s very
changeable.”
“If you don’t mind me ask-
ing: How old are you?”
“Twenty-three.”
. “You and your mother look
more like sisters.”
“You ought to tell her that.
It’s her favorite compliment.”
“Is it?”
He grabbed her arm, and she
stepped back, leaned against the
wall and said; “Have you got a
cigarette?”
He produced a packet and
offered it soberly. By a flaring
match he perceived the dilated
darkness of her eyes. They
seemed to have absorbed some
of the night’s blind blackness.
“You’re feeling all right?”
“Yes.”
“You said you were two years
in New Guinea. Why so long?”
“I signed a contract for that
length of time.”
“So it wasn’t'Wanderlust?”
She glanced nervously down
the street. “No, it wasn’t that.”
TTE saw, then, the badinage,
the spontaneous camara-
derie as a bright, inflexible
sheath around that part of the
personality where most people
kept illusions. He prised at it.
“Why don’t you like Sydney?”
“I’ve nothing against Sydney.”
“Or the people in it?”
“Or the people in it.”
“Then you’re staying here.”
“I don’t know —yet.”
“Is there anything worth going
back to New Guinea for?”
“I appreciate Sydney more
from a distance.”
“And the people as well?”
The cigarette-butt described a
fiery parabola to the gutter.
“My father,” she said, “was an
amateur psychologist. There’s
nothing worse. He considered
Amy irresponsible, emotionally
immature. By the time he left
for the war he’d discovered
‘nymphomania’ as an all-embrac-
ing term. My grandfather and
aunt shared his views. I didn’t.”
“So?”
“I don’t pass judgment on the
superficial.”
“If you drove a cab you’d
discover that the superficial is
the only thing that counts.”
“When Amy left home my
aunt wanted me to stay. I
couldn’t do that. Even though
I liked living up at Linville,
and with Dad gone there wasn’t
so much bickering. We came
up here to live and Amy got a
job as a waitress.”
“You say that very disapprov-
ingly.”
“Well, good Heavens, it’s
nothing to be proud of, is it?
She wasn’t cut out for a job like
that.”
“Probably that’s why she gets
some fun out of it.”
“I don’t think so. But she
said it paid fairly well, and she
put me through business college,
so I couldn’t complain about it.
It was her—er —social life that
got me down. I began to think
that my father might have been
right. In the end I signed on
for the New Guinea job.”
“So you were driven to it?”
“Not at all. After I’d been in
Rabaul six months I realised I
was wrong. Amy isn’t really like
that at all. She wrote to me
every week and I began to see
that I’d been narrow-minded,
that I’d expected her to be a
placid, suburban matron when
her temperament was obviously
not of that type. I saw her in a
different light altogether.”
“She must write a pretty good
letter.”
“I don’t know why I told you
all that. I must have drunk too
much.”
The light click of the main
door indicated that she had gone.
'THROUGH the windows she
saw the tarnished silver
sheen of the tarmac, and the
plane glinting in the sun. There
were two suitcases at her feet,
one containing the clothes and
gramophone records acquired on
shopping trips with Amy.
She was determined to remem-
ber only those days of shop-
ping and their quiet, exclusive
excitement. The appearance of
Clem at the airport prevented
the prolonging of that mood and
she felt irritated. She surveyed
the occupants of the waiting-
room, hoping that they might
mistakenly identify Clem as an
elder brother or relative, for she
wanted no discordant note in the
little family tableau which she
knew that she and Amy pre-
sented. Amy had reduced her
make-up to a minimum; her
eyes, devoid of mascara, were
moist, and the most uncritical
observer would put her age at
about forty-three. She was a
vision to be remembered through
a few thousand miles of cold,
blue air.
Steps were wheeled to the
plane. The gates were opened.
Joyce picked up her suitcases.
“You won’t forget to Write?”
“Of course not, babe.”
Chokily from Amy.
Her suitcases were taken, and
she walked across the tarmac
empty-handed. The interior of
the plane was dimly cool. From
the small window she saw Amy
and Clem standing by the gates ;
she saw Amy take Clem’s arm
and she turned away.
“But it’s only because she’s so
upset at my leaving,” she told
herself. “She just wants com-
forting.”
And she turned - back to the
window and waved with deter-
mined cheerfulness.
round me, poking me and pulling
at me.
“Yes, by crikey I’ll show you
in a minute! ” I threatened.
They covered their eyes with
their hands.
Too wild to read any mean-
ing into this I said “Yes, and
I’ll show you now!” And I
was about to cast my tormentors
from me in a most ruthless
manner—even not be above
trampling on them when,
screaming, they clapped their
hands over their eyes again and
ran off, pretending to hide from
me.
Then it dawned on me what
they meant, and I felt all hot
and bothered.
How I hated girls!
TROM then on I settled down
A to the quiet ownership of
Saint and endeavored to live
down and forget the humiliating
episodes of the past.
As for Saint himself: he
improved his bark ; improved his
hatred of turbans; and also
improved on the time it took me
to tie him up, and as a recrea-
tion shook possums out of trees
at night with his bark.
And so life mooched quietly
on until one day, by the gum-
tree near our corrugated-iron
tank, I heard a voice saying
“Per-l-e-a-s-e, der-i-n-k of
wat - e- r- r- r! Per-l-e-a-s-e,
der-i-n-k of wat-e-r-r-r! ” and I
was just about to wonder what
had happened to Saint’s eyes,
ears and nose when all of a
sudden Saint began to talk in
the language of thunder and
lightning, his chain vibrated . . .
then, out of the crack and snap
of metal, I saw foaming towards
me a picture like the warhorse in
my schoolbook that always
seemed to come galloping right
out of the book and into my
eyes.
I sang out to the yellow
turban; painted to the tree;
threw myself at the approaching
storm. It was a grand collision.
I went roiling over the earth like
roly - poly grass. When I
came to, dazedly holding my
head, I wondered for a moment
whether I’d been killed in the
earthquake and gone .somewhere
where the gum-tree has, instead
of blossom, a big, bright-yellow
flower.
In his great excitement Saint
evidently overlooked the fact that
he was not a tree-climbing dog
like the one Gunpowder, the
man down at the hotel, told us
he’d once owned, and he tried
most persistently to climb up the
tree where the bright-yellow
turban was blooming. On dis-
covering he had made a mistake
he sort of took off his coat and
did a bit of shadow-sparring
instead.
He was looking at me in such
a way now that I could pretty
well read his thoughts and knew
he was telling me that this Indian
was the same one who’d aimed
the clods at him. There was some
cause for his suspicion, too, for
the “Indian” who’d aimed the
clods at him had also worn a
yellow “turban” like the one now
up the tree. But Saint’s blind
rage must have blinded him to
the disparity in height between
that “Indian” and this Indian.
Although i could get the
hang of what Saint was
transmitting to me, I’m hanged
if I could understand the talk
that was going on upstairs. Like
most foreigners when excited or
agitated, he had gone back to his
native tongue, and I did not
know whether he was conversing
with me or praying for his
deliverance.
I could detect no apologetic
signs about Saint in connection
with the growing lump he’d
helped to produce on my fore-
head ; but I noted a firm and
determined manner though,
which told me plainly that he
would not be returning to his
own private quarters for some
time —not under any circum-
stances whatsoever —and that he
might have to stay on the job
over the weekend—or longer.
So, having received these
instructions from Mr. Saint
Bernard-Retriever, I could do no
less than bring his bed along to
him, and, as he had no objection
to being tied to his work, I
mended the broken chain and
politely, unostentatiously, and
while he was in deep and absent-
minded thought concerning the
task ahead of him, chaiTied him
to the tree.
This brought an awful wail
from up above; and from the
many strange sounds I heard I
reckoned he must have been a
student of languages and was
haranguing me in seven of
them. Not being able to under-
stand seven languages in one I
found it hard to follow him, but
worked it out that he thought
I’d chained the dog to the tree
so that he would never be able
to come down again.
He was quite wrong, however.
I had no wish to have a dead
Indian adjacent to our tank of
water, and after a lot of trouble
managed to convey to him that,
now that the dog was chained
up, he might crawl along one of
the limbs, slip down on to our
roof and then climb down to
everlasting freedom. He
cottoned, on to the idea, and
while I engaged Saint in conver-
sation concerning the weather
and the bad state of the crops, so
{Continued on page 30)


WORMALD BROTHERS SYSTEMS
—for protection against FIRE
“GRINNELL” AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM
m
Grinnell Automatic Sprinkler Systems
protect millions of pounds worth of
the world’s property. When an out-
break of fire occurs, heat causes the
sprinkler head above to open, local-
ising the outbreak, extinguishing the
fire and, at the same time, calling
the Brigade.
mm
“MULSIFYRE” SYSTEM
gdf
The “Mulsifyre” System extinguishes
oil fires. A powerful spray of water
converts burning liquid into an
emulsion incapable of burning.
Widely used to protect oil-filled
transformers, oil circuit-breakers,
turbine lubricating oil feeds, all
general oil risks.
-c
“KIDDE” INSTALLATIONS (Previously known as “LUX”)
i
y
mt
m
mm
<S>5»
The “Kidde” System, using CO2
(Carbon Dioxide) Gas, extinguishes
fire instantly. It can be used on in-
tricate machinery—electrical wiring
—delicate fabrics—valuable docu-
ments—on volatile and highly in-
flammable liquids with no harmful
effects.
m
“NATIONAL” AER-O-FOAM SYSTEMS
as
The National System of fire protec-
tion provides continuous foam pro-
duction for extinguishing fires in oil
tanks, buildings where types of in-
flammable liquids are processed,
ships’ boiler and engine rooms, etc.
mm
m
Wormald Brothers' long-experienced engineers will make a survey of your premises or building
point out the danger spots —give you advice as to the system of t fire protection suitable to your
class of risk. A complete Fire Protection Service is maintained in all States and New Zealand .
WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRIES
Fire Protection Engineers Since 1889
'PHONE US AND A REPRESENTATIVE WILL CALL


Now available on
heavy , white,
super-calendered
paper —
"BILLY-
Cartoon
History •
by
LOW"
Price, Is. 6d., post - free,
from
The Bulletin,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
Box 55a, G.P.0., Melbourne
Box 569 J, G.P.0., Brisbane
More work
with less fatigue
Do you know that experts
say a half-hour daytime nap
equals 3 hours’ night sleep?
That small tensions tire you
more than big ones? That it’s
unwise to trust decisions made
at night? That standing is
more tiring than walking?
A true-or-false quiz in Feb-
ruary Reader’s Digest reveals
surprising facts about the
causes of fatigue and the best
way to combat it. Read this
helpful article to learn how
you can accomplish more, tire
yourself less.
Reader’s Digest for February
features 34 stimulating articles
condensed from world’s leading
magazines and current books.
Don’t miss your copy now
one shilling and sixpence—all
newsagents and bookstalls.
Australian Historical Sketches
The Faithful Heart
By M. H. ELLIS
ON August 25, 1779, Mr.
Ralph Clark, anxious pre-
sumably to see the world,
joined the Marines —not
yet Royal as a second-
lieutenant. The Marines did not
disappoint his ambitions; but,
alas, too late! For before they
decided, in 1787, to send him to
Botany Bay with the First Fleet
in the Friendship he had met
and married his darling Alicia
and she had brought into the
world his son, Ralphie.
Thus with «no light heart
Second - Lieutenant Clark
embarked in the Friendship in
the First Fleet with tears and
regrets ; for he was parting not
only with his Betsy but with
everything he seemed to hold
dear except his journal, a forth-
right document when completed,
which, in parts, would have
made Mr. Pepys blush at its
language. He was unable even
to see his little Ralphie before
sailing, for Ralphie was confined
with the smallpox. If parting
was sorrow it was not sweet:
Never did a poor criminal go to
meet his doom with greater reluct-
ance [meditated Lieutenant Clark]
than I leave the best of women and
sweetest of boys God out of His
gracious goodness grant ray leaving
them may turn out to our advan-
tage, never did poor mortal feel
himself so unhappy as I do at this
present moment I wish that I was
returning home again to the best of
her sex oh what goodness does she
my beloved Betsy possess she has
come on board to stay with her
fond Clark until Mr. Eaddy returns
on board to relieve me.
He received no sympathy, for
when Lieutenant Faddy (a
captious fellow in his cups)
returned to displace the lovely
girl in Mr. Clark’s berth, Captain
Meredith showed himself heart-
less by “refusing me leave to
sleep out of the ship last night,
oh did he love as well as I do he
would never have refused me.”
(Mr. Clark’s punctuation was
not nearly so strong a point with
him as his marital affections.)
There was no rescue for him.
Bound for his three years’ tour
of duty in the great unknown, he
sailed away.
“Dear happy spot adieu where
all my treasure is on earth,” he
cried, as he found himself going
further every moment from all
that his soul held dear. He wept
in his anguish as the land faded
and the formidable Biscayan
seas opened up before him. His
surroundings scarcely impinged
upon his notice except as some-
thing of no moment until it
dawned upon him that the
presence of porpoises round the
ship was adjudged by seamen “a
sure sign that it will blow hard,”
after which his life for some
days appeared to be made up of
seasickness and still more
porpoises. He was in sorry
plight. A “sincere heart as ever
loved woman” was little help.
Exceedingly ill this day, oh my
G0d.... for my dear Alicia’s sake
don’t forsake me. Took an emetic
on the doctor’s orders... .very much
troubled with heartburn.
Mr. Clark, of course, might
have solaced himself had he been
in a different position with ladies,
for there were plenty on the
Friendship, though not much his
style, “as never was there such
wicked rascals together,” a
thousand times worse than the
convict men; ladies like Miss
Ann (who was being sent
to the Antipodes for five years
for stealing Is. 6d.) and a mort
of other youth and beauty. Their
ages were marked, fortunately,
in years rather than in sin, and
their professions very often
were stated decorously as
“none,” an obvious euphemism
for the vdry oldest profession on
earth. They were anything but
a comfort to Mr. Clark, who was
in some sort in charge of their
discipline.
The ship had not sailed even
past the Motherbank before the
sailors had broken through the
bulkhead to reach these damsels,
who were just as eager as their;
assailants to be got at. Mr.
Clark was forced to put four of
them in irons for ten days or so,
and to close his ears when the
ladies decided to hold conversa-
tions about the captain and
other favorite functionaries.
Mr. Clark seems to have had
the honor of bestowing the first
dose of lashes issued to a denizen
of the first Botany Bay Fleet—
Mr. John Bennet, 19 —whom
he designated “a young man but
an old rogue.” To him he
/dealt out 87 strokes, which per-
turbed the victim more than Mr.
Clark, who added the entry to
his daily narrative: “Read part
of the story of the Humble
Friend in the Lady Magazine for
1775 ; very much taken with it.”
But that was before he was
really seasick, and also before he
celebrated the third anniversary
of his wedding with the “dear
heavenly woman the best of
wives, the most sincerest friend
and the tenderest of mothers,”
who had produced his “beautiful
little engaging son,” a pair with
whom he “would not part for a
captain’s commission.” 'With
wine, beer and cider he cele-
brated with the doctor and
Lieutenant Faddy, and they sang
till 10 o’clock with such zest
that it seemed no matter to him
when Mr. Patrick Delaney, aged
25, a highwayman, chose that
evening to shuffle off this mortal
coil.
At night, as one might expect
after so many mixed drinks and
so much song, Mr. Clark dreamt
that his Betsy presented him with
a dead louse, which seemed to
him to be an unlucky omen, and
from then onwards his dreams
were full of Betsy engaged in the
strangest ways, such as walking
in the rain, sitting about in her
nightcap before fires, and per-
forming other social feats, every
one of which filled him with the
worst sort of foreboding that he
would never see her again.
As July opened and they
wallowed in the Atlantic the
ship’s captain. Captain Walton,
appeared with the news that “his
men had broke through the
women convicts’ bulkhead again,
that four of the women had been
found in the men’s place.” Then
of course all the men concerned
had to be flogged with ceremony.
and the guilty ladies ordered to
be kept in irons for the rest of
the voyage, a procedure which
some of them resented to such
effect that stern measures had
to be taken *
July 3: captain Walton has given
me a puppy, have called it Eftord
after the dear sweet place where
tirst I became acquainted with my
Alicia, my virtuous wife. Captain
Meredith ordered one of the Corps
to flog with a rope Elizabeth
for being impertinent to Cap-
tain Meredith, the corpora! did not
play with her, hut laid it home,
which i was glad to see, then
ordered her to be tied to the pump,
she has long been fishing tor it,
which she has at last got, until her
heart’s content.
Mr. Clark retired to his cabin
and dreamt that he saw his tender
love sitting at the fire with her
nightcap on and seeming very
low, though perhaps not so low
as the lady shivering at the
pump, or, for that matter, as the
poor dog, Efford, who would
never gambol along the lovely
walk after which he was named,
by Bideford near Sir Richard
Grenville’s ancient home.
Life was transitory for dogs in
the transport Friendship. He
was soon lost among the five
which went overboard in the first
few weeks, leaving a grieving
master to solace himself with the
drama, of which he showed him-
self from the first a keen
expositor. Almost at once when
he encountered that popular
tragedy “Douglas,” the work
of Farmer George’s tutor
and “Ossian” MacPherson’s
friend, he discerned that “Glen-
alvon from his first speech has
some treachery in view, hope not
but something foretells me he
has.” And how right he proved!
July 16, 1787: Read the remainder
of the Tragedy of Douglas this day,
oh, it is a sweet play, what an inno-
cent sweet spirit that is of young
Norval when he informs Dord and
Lacly Randolph "whom he is and
where his father lives, on the Gram-
pine Hills my father feeds his flocks,
etc., and what are the emotions in
the breast of Lady Randolph when
she sees the features and shape of
her lost and stained husband
Douglas in that of young Norval,
little does she know, fond mother,
that he is her long-lost son, or she
would not have let him to the field
with her Lord, what a villain Glenal-
von is, if it had not been for him
her son would have lived, but still
I cannot think that she loved as my
virtuous Alicia does, heaven knows
how much she and I love, the tear
of sorrow would not refrain from
roiling down my cheeks as the affect-
ing scene in- this play unfolded.
Thus Lieutenant Clark became
the first of our literary critics,
anticipating his arrival in this
cultured land when he wrote
.among the great tragediennes of
the Friendship, who were deep in
the rendering of scenes which
would have made Mrs. Patrick
Campbell weep with envy and
the best and most shrewish
Katherine ever born gnash her
futile teeth. Who, for instance,
more convincing than that great
forerunner of Bernhardt and
Duse, another Elizabeth?
Her stage was the quarter-deck
of the ship Friendship. Eler
scene was that in which, with
tempestuous declamation, she
accused the ship’s doctor, the
virtuous Arundel, of having
made the most improper pro-
posals to her in the simplest and
purest of Anglo-Saxon. This the
good man denied with equal
histrionic force. Enter the
villain in the form of Captain
Walton, who, noticing the actress
is “much in liquor,” calls some
hefty seamen to deck her with
121 b. irons.
This was the lady’s cue
for her tour de force, and with
an eloquence reminiscent of the
days of Congreve she began to
abuse Captain Meredith of the
Marines, calling him “everything
but a gentleman.” Mr. Clark
could exclaim with great
sincerity that “in all the course
of my days I never heard such
expressions come from the
mouth of a human being.’’
To tie her hands behind her
back to tame her gestures, to put
a gag in her mouth to stop her
eloquence could scarce prevent
her flow of words. And the per-
formance seems to have
generated so much heat in Mr.
Clark’s cranium that he gave a
convict some thread to make a
net for his hair, since in the
equatorial latitude through which
they now were passing nightcaps
were “too warm.”
Again and again he dreamed of
Alicia—that he was walking in
the rain with her on Sir Richard
Grenville’s peninsula between
Efford and -Buck-land Tower, and
that he “saw her in the old black
silk gown and closed up in a
room in the barracks and gave
her a kiss.” Then he dreamt
again that they were together
“at Crabtree Turnpike House
with some others and my Betsy
was making tea,” and still again
that she was going to nurse
somebody’s child which had
sore eyes, and that he had been
made a first-lieutenant, and when
he told it to her she cried, on
which he took in his fond
arms and gave her a fond kiss.
And later in his dreams he found
himself longing for a goose.
In the background the ship’s
actresses still played their
parts, now in irons and
now out, now chained to-
gether and ■ now solus. Thus
they passed from Rio to the Cape
and out to the region of the
Roaring Forties for five months,
until, on October 27, when
Captain Phillip apparently felt
that the Friendship had had its
share of ladies’ company and
transferred most of its fair com-
plement to another vessel in
exchange for forty sheep, which
our Marine “felt not the least
doubt we will find much more
agreeable shipmates.”
Presently, on January 19, 1788,
Mr. Clark looked out at
9 o’clock in the morning and
saw the brig Supply riding at
anchor in Botany Bay. Natives
crowded Point Solander and the
north shore. It looked promis-
ing, though acquaintance with
the land soon convinced him
that if they had stayed in Botany
Bay there would be none of them
alive in a year.
But Sydney Cove was dif-
ferent. ..“here we tie the ships
fast to the trees on shore both
sides of the Governor’s Cove.”
And here on January 28 he slept
ashore for the first time, in a
marquee with Tom Davey—who
later, when making his official
entry to Van Diemen’s Land as
Lieutenant-Governor, stopped,
coatless, at the first hostelry to
cool his thirst. Mr. Clark slept
very well after a day of the
greatest confusion that he had
experienced in his life as the
Marines came ashore.
He saw all the excitements of
early Botany Bay. He saw
Phillip’s Commission read and
the carousal of celebration on
February 7. He saw the first
man hanged, very white on the
ladder, in this continent; he
saw the first lady flogged at the
cart’s-tail. It was to him that
Governor Phillip came to ask on
February 17 that he might have
the use of his marquee to take
the sacrament in. (“I will keep
the table as long as I live for it
is the first table that ever the
Lord’s Supper was taken from
in this country.”) He was a
pioneer of Norfolk Island, and
had many of a thieving girl
flogged there, few of them able
to stand all the ample issue which
he prescribed. And whether dry
in hammock on a ship or lying
on the hard cold ground,
“spiders, ants and every vermin
you can think of crawling over
me,” his thoughts were always
with his Alicia, and the rest of
existence was only half-real.
He was not always quite
faithful. As he voyaged home-
wards at the end of his three
years’ service it is noticeable that
the image of his lady seemed to
have become a little dim, and he
mentions her less often in the
fresh-looking diary which has a
permanent home in Sydney’s
Mitchell Library. But for all
that he ranks a special place in
Australian history as this
country’s first faithful and
romantic heart, its first Great
Lover.
It is sad to know that like most
of his kind he did not long
survive. When he reached Eng-
land he was placed upon half-
pay for a time —sad climax to
years of financial stringency for
his Betsy—then hastily, by grace
of the French Revolution,
restored to full pay. But in
1794, only two years after his
return from the Botany Bay
voyage, he perished, we know
not how.
In my article on Mrs.
Rutland (B. 28/1/’53) 1 accidentally, in
shortening a sentence, made it appear
that Michael Dwyer, whom Bligh
exiled to Norfolk Island, was one of
the Irish whom he flogged. Dwyer,
despite his exile, was not flogged.
The Hand of Affection
[From the Rangamatty Eclogues]
The hand of affection lies heavily on the homestead.
The shafts that uphold its roof-trees trimmed where
once they stood
show clearly the rigor of the prevailing wind, once not
loth
to tease them and bend their boughs when pliant to
the north.
This sassafras sapling, this scented limb of cedar,
alone of their kind now speak of a bygone forest-gain,
the mark of the adze roughens an earlier splendor,
th 6 tooth of the saw bites plainly into their close grain;
the hand of affection lies heavily on the homestead.
The hand of affection betrays even the stature
of the men who once labored here, the tall and the
short,
he whose adze struck too forcibly always, some proud
boy
showing off, a man first received among his fellows.
Like the print of time on the rockledge, easy to read,
traces of the overwhelming task, of the inadequate
tool,
all the faults of the learner, the mystery of toil,
that touch of the Prophet man shows in his work;
turmoil,
clamor, glamor, of what’s to come, here is made plain:
the dust of man’s destiny lies thick upon the home-
stead. -
n.s.w.
ETHEL ANDERSON.


FRENCH
ICORN CUREI
Cures Callouses and Corns
A variable at
Anthony Horderns’ |
SPORTING NOTIONS
In at least two instances at
Canterbury Park last Saturday
the trainer of the winner was
surprised to see his runner first
past the post, which goes to show
that even the best judges’can be
caught off-guard. If a trainer
cannot anticipate a likely win
what chance has the average
punter of making racing pay?
Hundreds of Canterbury
patrons were on their way home
—mostly per foot —after six of
the eight events had been
decided. Winners till that stage
had included 100 to 1 Cynosure,
10 to 1 Osborne, and 20 to’ 1
Blue Ocean, Two favorites won
in eight events, but, as the second
of them was in the final race of
the afternoon, few cash punters
had sufficient “chips” to even
accounts at Sir Pilot’s short
quote, though some of the bigger
“nod” backers balanced the
budget or at* least materially
reduced liabilities. But the same
old faces will be round the book-
makers next Saturday.
Veteran trainer Johnnie
Donohoe might have missed a
betting chance when ICjO-to-l
Cynosure won the Two-Year-Old
Maiden for fillies. However, he
is now happy in the knowledge
that his stable is sheltering a
potential top-ranking filly who
impressed all who saw her.
Cynosure could go on to much
greater • things later this season
and at three years. That is what
her close relative, True Course,
did. True Course was the best
of her age at two years and a
class three-year-old. She won,
among other events, the V.R.C.
Oaks and the Wakeful Stakes.
At two years she won both Sires’
Produce Stakes, the A.J.C.
Champagne Stakes, etc.
Cynosure is one of the first of
the progeny of speedy Temeraire
to race. Unbeaten at two years
Temeraire’s successes included
the. Breeders’ Plate by eight
lengths in record time of 594-
seconds for the five furlongs.
Cynosure cost 550gns. as a
yearling, and first money for
Saturday’s race was £5BO. Her
dam. Lamia, is by Midstream
(imp.) from Enchantress by
Constant Son (imp.). Carry On,
a winner of the Australian Cup,
also is in the pedigree.
• • • •
Royal Stream, stylish winner
of the Canterbury Two-Year-Old
Maiden for colts and geldings,
earned a stake of £586, which
Reduces (hp 1900gns. he cost as a
yearling in* Sydney last Easter,
Though his owner, R. Carter,
and trainer, Fred, Cush, don’t
bother about the betting-side of
racing, the colt’s opening price
was 5 to 4 on, and so much
money came for him that he
started at twos on. Half the
starters had not previously faced
a barrier- in public, and Royal
Stream simply paddled in by five
lengths in race-record time.
Royal Stream is a product of
Kia-Ora stud. Scone (N.S.W.),
and is a half-brother to Gallant
Leader, a winner at 12 furlongs
at Randwick. Closely related
also is Tiberius, a classy English
stayer and winner of the Ascot
Gold Cup, the Goodwood Cup,
Newmarket St. Leger, etc., he
is a son of Midstream (imp.) and
Farmington (imp.), a mare by
Colombo from Roxina (half-
sister to Tiberius) by Diophon.
Norman Wheeler, manager of
Ki’a-Ora, supplied the runner-up.
Royal Forest, a handsome colt
by Delville Wood, likely to soon
open his account. Forest Duke,
third placegetter, also was foaled
at Kia-Ora. He cost 2400gns. as
a yearling and he, too, should
soon do better.
For upwards of 40 years Frank
Underwood has been associated
with Canterbury Park, and the
Cup named after the veteran
sportsman (a grand old man of
racing) has been staged at the
Canterbury course for several
years. Latest winner, Blue
Ocean, gave the ringmen almost
a clean sheet. Few punters
profited from the 20 and 25 to 1
offered about the chance of the
aged Talking gelding, who had
sorted once in about 12 months
and hadn’t won a race since
May, 1951.
Blue Ocean staged a runaway
victory, and backers of the well-
fancied horses were not a little
displeased with the almost tardy
exhibition of horsemanship dis-
played ‘by some of the other
riders, who appeared to take the
tearaway leader far too casually,
and made their runs much too
late. A little more concentra-
tion on what is going on at the
head of affairs with a fast pace-
maker in full running and less
watching the way other rivals are
shaping is what backers expect.
Jockey R. Buckley deserved his
win. His only objective was the
winning-post and he chose the
shortest and quickest route.
Blue Ocean has won his races by
similar methods, and he will con-
tinue to win others if the riders
of the horses behind him don’t
attempt to bridge the gap much
earlier.
• « • «
As in Sydney, only two
favorites were successful at Caul-
field on Saturday, and two out-
siders, Magoot and Sun Baron,
were helpful to layers of the
odds. Magoot, winner of the
Second Berwick Handicap for
two-year-olds, is a Triple Bar
(imp.) gelding from Duchess
Patricia and is raced and trained
by Phil Burke. It was the geld-
ing’s second start in a race.
Offered as a yearling at the
Randwick sales last April and
passed in at 200gns., he is a half-
brother to Sydney-owned Irish
Field.
• • • •
Rondalee, winner of the First
Berwick.Handicap, is a filly by
Empyrean (imp.) from Fatd*s
Decree by St. Magnus (imp.)
from Rondaline by Beau Fils
(imp.). Fate’s Decree was bred
in 1943 by Harry Telford of
Phar Lap fame. Rondalee is
owned by J. Clemenger and is
trained by Des Judd. She started
favorite at 11 to 4. The owner
is the lawn-tennis Clemenger.
Like the southerners, Brisbane
punters also experienced mixed
fortune on Saturday, when a
mediocre batch of gallopers
raced in some of the Albion Park
events. On the subject of
moderate horses, Sydney execu-
tives should go steadily and not
give this type too much encour-
agement. There seems to be a
tendency that way at present, but
it should be discouraged. At
least it shouldn’t be extended.
Big fields might suit executives,
but the public prefer to watch
■ and wager on the better-class
performers. It is a moot point
whether cutting-out the Canter-
bury Park Flying next Saturday,
as on a recent occasion, is in the
best interests of racing. Owners
of Flying-company horses are far
from happy over the decision.
There were 15 acceptors for last
Saturday’s main sprint and 11
runners. Finish of that event was
the most exciting of the
afternoon.
• • .• •
Perhaps the most interesting
entrant for this year’s Oakleigh
Plate, to be run at Caulfield on
February 21, is the Sydney
filly Love To All. If it is
decided to start the brilliant
youngster she might make it
merry for the older opposition,
but there will be several tough
nuts to crack among Australia’s
best-known sprinters at 54 fur-
longs, and they’ll make fast time.
There’s nothing in racing rules
to prevent the running of two-
year-olds in the Oakleigh, but it
hasn’t been done * for many
years, mainly because owners
don’t favor setting their
youngsters against all-comers,
and because there are so many
winning opportunities for the
best two-year-olds in their own
sphere. In early Oakleigh years
four two-year olds won the
Plate (established in 1884):
Titan, 1890, carried 7.9;
Camoola, 1892, 7.5; Moorite,'
1894, Bst.; Coil, 1896, 7.10. Tom
Payten trained both Camoola
and Coil. On 7.6, Love To All is
not so badly off compared with
the horses named.
• •' • •
Percy Reynolds, Hobartville,
Richmond (N.S.W.) studmaster,
placed two yearlings by Helios
(imp.) in the Randwick sale-ring
in March, 1951, and sold’both.
The brown colt from Lauristina
realised 1500gns. and is racing as
Heliopolis ; the filly from Fel-
beam (dual-winner of the A.J.C.
Challenge Stakes) was sold to
G. Corrie for 2100gns. Helio-
polis, a first foal, is from a sister'
to Felbeam, He won his first
race at Wyong (N.S.W.), beating
“An atomic Warhead in your glove, eh?”
a moderate field in a three-
year-old Maiden, run over five
furlongs, quite a mild flutter, and
worth about £4O to the owner.
Former crack Sydney jockey
Bill (“Midget”) McLachlan was
interviewed over the air by
Lachie Melville, A.B.C. racing
commentator. Bill won three
Melbourne Cups (Prince Foote,
Comedy King and Westcourt),
in addition to more than 20
other Cups in various parts of
Australia. He had a remark-
able riding record. Lachie asked
the veteran if he went racing
now. “Oh, yes, almost every
week,” said Bill, and to a final
query, “What do you do there?”
the' former crack horseman re-
plied “I do my money like the
rest of the punters,” In addi-
tion to the three named, horses
McLachlan won races on in-
cluded Poseidon, Maranui (Caul-
field Cup winners), Kerlie,
White Phast, Red Signal, Abo-
rigine, Poitrina, Soultine, Moun-
tain Knight, Almissa, Kilboy,
Wolaroi, Kennaquhair, Mooltan,
Lilyveil and Bunting. Mac is a
regular in the Paddock enclosure
at Randwick in the section re-
served for jockeys and former
horsemen.
Racing in Australia is becom-
ing increasingly costly to owners,
and a man with a light purse has
no place in the Turf spotlight.
It is the ambition of every
owner to win a Melbourne Cup,
but it costs up to £75 in accept-
ance fees, etc., just to start. Gf
course the prize is handsome,
up to £14,000, plus the keenly-
sought-after trophy. Sweep-
stakes for the A.J.C. Don-
caster and Sydney Cup next
April are pretty solid, £5O and
£6O respectively. The Sydney
Cup is worth £12,500 and a £5OO
gold 'cup, while the Doncaster
is a £5OOO race. Sweepstakes
are added to stakemoney in Syd-
ney, which naturally pleases
winning owners. Hundreds of
horses are in training on main
Australian tracks, yet many
never win a race nor are they
likely to, which seems a strange
state of affairs.
Harry Tancred, new S.T.C.
chairman, officially took over the
reins for the first time at the
club’s Canterbury meeting on
Saturday. He succeeds W. W.
(Bill) Hill, who resigned the
chairmanship but will continue
as a director. The new chief of
the clqb is governing-director of
the Tancred Brothers’ meat firm,
and has been a director of the
S.T.C. since its inception. Most
of his early life was spent in
New Zealand, which he repre-
sented at football, playing later
for N.S.W. also. He owned
fine performer High Caste, while
another of his horses, Kiaree,
won Tattersall’s and City Tatter-
sail’s Cups. In partnership he
now races Tilbridge. Bill Long-
worth has been elected vice-
chairman to succeed him.
New Zealand colt Surrey
Gold, winner of half a dozen
events, has proved a bargain
even at the 1500gns. he cost as
a yearling last January.
Bred by Sir James and J. C.
Fletcher, he is a brown colt by
Gold Nib (imp.), son of Dastur,
and grandson of Solario, from
Surry Hills by Robin Goodfel-
low (imp.) from Hest by Hunt-
ing Song (imp.). He is a half-
brother to Shandon, who as a
two-year-old won at a mile race
at Flemington. Australians
would like to see Surrey Gold in
action.
• • • •
Colombo has proved a happy
hunting-ground for Sydney
jockey Jack O’Sullivan, who is
holidaying in Sydney after his
third trip to the East. He had
25 successes in the Colombo
season, which lasts from May till
December, and at which all bet-
ting is by totalisator. O’Sullivan
finds living conditions no dearer
there than in Sydney. He has
won the best races programmed
in Colombo. O’Sullivan was
apprenticed to Rosehill trainer
R. C. Stanton, best-known as
mentor of that noted jumper
Cheery Jack, 1940 Grand
National Hurdle winner.
O’Sullivan won the A.J.C. Metro-
politan in 1933 on Regal Son,
and the * same event four years
later on Sir Regent. He also
won races on Rodborough,
including the 1936 A.J.C.
Breeders’ Plate, and the Gim-
crack Stakes on Scaurfel. His
most notable win, however, was
on Melbourne Cup winner Hall
Mark in 1933.
Famous English sire Hyperion
is now 23 years old. During the
1952 English season 24 of his
progeny among them won 46
races for a total value of £42,806,
and he finished second on the
list of sires of winners to
Tehran (17 winners, 31 races,
£86,072). Hyperion’s first crop
ran as two-year-olds in 1938, and
five were winners that season. In
all, he has sired 3.27 winners of
568 races and £297,594 in stakes.
He was leading sire of the dams
of English winners in 1948, and
has been either second or third
in that category every season
since. Hyperion was five times
champion sire of England. He
won the Derby, St. Leger and
other races to a total value of
£29,509. He certainly has had
an amazing stud career. Helios
(imp.) is one of the best-known
sons of Hyperion at the stud in
Australia. In New Zealand there
are several Hyperions at the
stud.
♦ * * ♦
For the fourth Test S. Africa,
it was said, was playing a couple
of bowling “crocks” (Tayfield,
Watkins); before the Test was
half-way through Australia also
had its “crocks,” Miller and
Lindwall being out of action.
(Both are out of the Australian
side for. the fifth Test.) All of
which probably helped to make
the match pretty well a batsman’s
picnic.
Firstly Australia piled-up 530,
their best score since 1949-50
in South Africa. The S’Africans,
facing Australia’s weakened
attack, made 387 and saved the
follow-on. Australia, in again,
hit out brightly (Harvey and
Morris in particular). In the
last turn at the crease the visitors
were content to play out time.
After all of which goings-on
the contest was a no-decision
one. Present position of the
Tests: Australia two, S. Africa
one, one draw. Australia 530
(Hassett 163, McDonald 154,
Harvey 84 ; Tayfield 4-142) and
3-233, closed (Harvey 116,
Morris 77); S. Africa 287 (Fun-
ston 92, Watkins 76 ; Johnston
5-110, Benaud 4-118) and 6-177
(McGlew 54).
N.S.W. beat Victoria by a
round 100 on the first. N.S.W.
had to get full points to be still
in it for the Shield, but several
bad fielding lapses during Vic.’s
second-innings (plus the fact that
there was no play on the first
day) stopped its chances. Time
ran out while it was chasing the
runs. N.S.W.’s latest 16-year-old
selection, Bob Simpson, made a
satisfactory debut. Vic. 169
(Pearce 5-57) and 290 (Chambers
72; Pearce 5-105); N.S.W. 269
(Briggs 80, De Courcy 56,
Simpson 44 n. 0.) and 3-113.
“Mid-on”: Since Colin Mc-
Donald first played Test cricket
—in the fifth Test against the
West Indies one of the
“experts” had been down on
him. In his first Test, on a dif-
ficult pitch, Mac topscored (32,
Australian total 116), yet the
expert was not “impressed,” and
said further that “McDonald,
who pushes his left foot down
the’pitch and hits blatantly at the
pitch of the ball, will find that
method will curtail his oppor-
tunities in Test cricket.” In the
second dig Mac made 62 (Miller
69, Hassett 64, Hole 62); the
expert commented on the batting
of these three and ignored Mc-
Donald’s. His first-Test efforts
this year certainly weren’t
“impressive,” but since then he
has been consistent, and is next
to Harvey in the batting averages
(82 in the second, 67 in the third).
While the third Test was in
progress the expert was still writ-
ing that Mac “wasn’t an opening-
bat.” He has since made his
154.
* * % ’• ♦
Prizemoney has doubled for
the McWilliams’ Wines golf
show in Sydney in March. Total
cash is now £5OOO, with £llOO
for the winner, biggest cash ever
offered for a pro. in Australia.
The player who runs 40th will
get £2O.


Established 1808 in lieign of
George HI.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
. ( England )
N.S.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
A one-lime entry of the great Naval Base goes back to look it over
Flinders Revisited
By "MACNELL"
“T HROUGH the wrought-
S iron gates with the naval
y j badge surmounting; past
the white-gaitered sentry
—he, too, is having trouble with
those blasted mosquitoes which,
your memory recalls, infest the
thick pine shrubs.
On down the winding road,
white-railed, to the first stop —
entering and leaving. The
police-office. “Remember this
joint, boy,” the three-badgeman
guide had warned, when you had
first sighted its wide-veranda-ed
notice-plastered spread close on
20 years before, when, as now
again, you were in civvies.
That was (still is) the pest-house
you had to get past, outward-
bound up the line to Melbourne,
with your 32in. bottoms, your
dicky-front, long collar surrep-
titiously bought in Collins-street
and your cap-ribbon bow over
the left eye. The wonder of that
bow! That was the thing which
got you the floosies —which
marked you for a blue-water
barnacle instead of an ordinary-
seaman second-class. As you
thought. When the floosies hang-
ing round Princes Bridge knew
you’d left mother fully six weeks
before, and wouldn’t know
whether the bow should be worn
over your left eye or over your
stern.
Now a guard emerges,
immaculate, offering with per-
juring politeness to show you
round. You decline, not only
because you can trust your own
navigating in these waters, but
because the poor coot’s been
detailed-off for it anyway, and
would much prefer to h£ back
in his mess.
Slowly up the bitumen road
past the cadets’ college; the
gardener’s house to port; to
starb’d still that lonely stretch of
forest which used to remind you
nostalgically of your own far-
away Darling Downs. The old
mines, cut in half, still guarding
the college gates.
Alter course 90 degrees to port
(seeing that this is, as it always
has been, H.M.A.S. Cerberus),
round the tall, halliard-rigged
mast used by the signalmen, and
you’re back on safe ground. The
old warrant-officers’ mess. It
took ten years, but you did get
in there.
What a day! Brand-new
uniform, gleaming buttons and
one gold ring on each sleeve,
hastening up from the com-
modore’s hurried congratula-
tions, to be met, outside your
new mess, by your first salute.
Heaven knows you’d slung
enough of ’em yourself to be
entitled to that one. And the
gunners inside the leather-
armchaired smoke-room the
day, the hour, before, your
remote superiors, remote as only
naval discipline can distance
them ; now a. milling, friendly
bunch of mess-mates, faces full
of camaraderie, fists full of foam-
ing tankards, offering, pressing.
With forlorn consequences for
that brand-new uniform four
hours later . . .
So on, to the really fond early
memories. Here it is. B-block.
The vast, three-decked brick
barracks manner—or boyed—
by “macaroons.” So-named
because of those delicious,
stomach - filling coconut - and -
chocolate confections on which
you and your lowly tribe spent
most of their 32-bob-a-fortnight
pay. Now, of course, the young
gentlemen could afford pound
boxes of chocolates.
Here, somewhere —yes, there it
is. Unchanged. Still bare and
draughty. BG4. Fourth
dormitory on the ground-floor.
Here you learned to sling a
hammock; and slung yourself
out the other side of the banana-
bedstead when you tried to
mount, to the indecent enjoy-
ment of those three-weeks-old
salts whose names were dry on
their service-certificates. And in
here —your home for the next
eight months—you tried on that
uniform old “Kit-’em-up” Jones
had marked your name in for
you.
This was the hour; this the
reason for the praying in the
train that that shaky front tooth
wouldn’t scrub you out before
the doctor —there being no
recruiting campaign in 1934.
The first uniform. A bit loose
round the waist, the trouser-
bottoms a little too narrow,
perhaps—a mere 28in. —and,
after the novelty had worn thin,
the eager inquiries as to where,
and in what shortest possible
time, you could get your
“tiddley,” tight-fitting, balloon-
bottomed, shore-going suit made
up the line.
A disciplined squad of teen-
agers now marches out from
behind E-block. Clad, sensibly,
in overalls. With gaiters on.
Bound, then, for the gunnery-
school. At your query your old
shipmate, still serving, now
lieutenant, one-time gunner,
grins:
“Sure, if you want to. But the
drill hasn’t changed much —if at
all. Radar, y’ know, things like
that. But they still punch the
brick up the spout the same
way.”
So you walk across the stretch-
ing playing-fields—being officers,
you may, instead of doubling if
you’re a deck-swabber —to the
same old gunnery-schools facing
B-block. Past the big wooden
doors of the batteries, through a
circle in which, like an enormous
pipe jutting from a man’s mouth,
poke the barrels of the six-inch
guns. Heavens, how many times
you scuttled round from the
breech at the roar: “Clear
away! ” and pulled that tampeon
from the muzzle? By the look
of it, the same damn’ tampeon.
Inside, and a bull-like bellow
reverberates from one walled-in
compartment.
“Move!”
You recognise the order —and
the voice. Not that this par-
ticular owner of the voice, now
trained to clarity behind a
hundred guns, was bellowing
when ygu knew him. He was
running, as his ordinary seamen
are now. And you were running
with him. Now he’s a
gunner’s mate —check, Gunnery-
Instructor, One of that healthily
hated breed, all “gate and
gaiters,” whose guts you had
every day fervently promised
yourself as a necktie!
+ +
The G.I. hasn’t seen us.
Ramming, stepping back, open-
ing the breech, fitting the firing-
tube, ramming again—his class
sweating under the lash of that
omniscient voice. Then:
“Gun-crew rest! ”
Panting, the kids drop their
projectiles—“ Rest that charge on
the toe —want to drench it with
salt-water! ” —and the G.I. walks
over to them. His voice dropped,
conversationally. Reminiscing.
A normal human. This is new!
And intelligent.
“Gunlayer, your face is
pressed too hard into the eye-
socket. Up in Korea —same
thing happened eye-piece
misted over. Y’ know what
happened then?”
The young faces are interested,
listening, not only from natural
interest, but from the knowledge
that in a month or so they’ll
probably be up there themselves.
Wonderful stimulant to instruc-
tion, the thought that you’ll be
shortly heaving live, bricks
instead of brass-bound wooden
ones.
Still, as my friend remarked,
you still heave ’em the same way.
Or almost. In the section
devoted to radar-control of main
armament, intelligent young
faces, well-groomed, well-fed,
listening to instructors or bend-
iqg over a Speed Gordon assort-
ment of dials and tubes and
radar-scopes. All this on the
secret-list. Not writable. Just
as well. Five years outside in
this age is a long time . . .
To the football-field, where
again is the old school. Squads
at rifle-drill. No change. A
squad marches away, 40yds.
from the instructor. Though he
can’t possibly hear them, he
bellows just the same: “Silence
in the rear rank!” That gives
memory a grinning kick. “How
the hell can he know we’re yap-
ping?” you cursed. And worked
the oracle yourself, years later,
understanding then that he knew
you’d start yapping—probably
about him—the minute you
thought he wouldn’t know.
Another changeless instruc-
tion, one which will stand the
test of this radar and atom-age.
Twelve young arms laboring at
the 12 heavy oars of a 32ft.
cutter ; a cutter on the protected
waters of Westernport Bay, a
seaboat the next time they take
it away. For these lads are
passing out in their seamanship
exam. They hold water with
one bank of oars, pull hard with
the other, swinging with no
forward motion to pick up an
imaginary man - overboard.
That’s another thing this age of
marvels won’t obviate —so long
as there are upper-decks.
+ +
In the rigging-shed, youngsters
tying themselves in knots trying
to tie bowlines, the shed redolent
with the tang of tarred hemp.
You remember that oft-quoted
maxim “Seamanship has been, is,
and always will be, the prime
concern of a fighting fleet.”
Lord of the shed, walking
quietly through, watching his
instructors, the bosun~a man
you remember with the reputa-
tion of being able to splice a
thimbled eye in a 4£in. steel wire
rope in 45 minutes ; the only man
in your own experience who
could treat the mulish, steely
strength of minesweeping wire
as though it Were strands of
licorice. Whatever else they
might not know, these kids will
be able to bend and splice before
they get their first ship.
To the left of the rigging-shed
a little group squats on the
beach. One fixes a rocket-firing
device in the mud, his mate the
long rocket down inside the
securing ring. Then, whoosh!
Curving flight, plume of smoke,
the brilliant burst. At sea that
might mean anything from a
submarine-contact to an identi-
fication-signal. Next the group
is taught how to light a slow-
match, which will burn under
water and which must be cut off
to stop its burning.
A sudden yammering to the
left, snarling across the peaceful
bay, indicates a trio of Vickers
at work. Echo to their harsh
music, a Bren beats across the
water from the main rifle-range
over the bay out towards the
entrance. The gunnery-lieutenant
grins.
“Yes, I know,” he recalls.
“Took me three years at sea
before X handled a Vickers.”
Both ammunition and realism,
it would seem, are in better
supply in 1953....
Sauntering now through the
administration block. That hell
of discipline to be avoided, when
one was young, with no weight
on one’s arm. For here the com-
mander and commodore (if
you’re doomed to go that high)
see defaulters. The same brown
floors, sheathed in the same
corticene which covers the steel
of ’tween-decks in a cruiser.
There, scrubbed clean daily;
here, polished to mirror-finish
daily. Outside a door brass-
marked “Commander,” merci-
fully shut, waits the queue.
Those on the right, merely
anxious—requestmen. Those on
the left, more than anxious—
defaulters.
An able-seaman hurries out
the door, cap on his head
(requestman), and makes the
thumbs-up sign to his cobber.
Cobber grin's. Obviously up for
the same request —leave out of
watch, with a squarie to look out
for up the line, and a messmate
to look out for you back in
depot over your duty weekend.
-I- +
With the last requestman gone
in there is a pause. Ominous.
A breathing-space for The Bloke
to get ready the verbal blasts
before dishing it out per
K.R. & A.I. Then the stern,
unlovely face of the regulating
petty-officer (“Crusher”) at the
door:
“Able-seaman Tomkins! ”
Able-seaman Tomkins doubles
urgently through the door. No
use, Tommo —smartness ain’t
much chop now, mate. Before
the door closes the “Off caps!”
comes out. The queue moves
restlessly. There is a murmur
from inside. That voice must be
raised. It doesn’t take long.
Tommo must have known he
hadn’t a chance and pleaded
guilty. He comes out, forget-
ting smartness now, pulling on
his cap, avoiding the queue’s
eyes. Though, for their benefit,
with back to the Crusher, his
mouth forms an expressive word
starting with “B” . . .
The old torpedo-school, where
budding torpedomen used to
potter over the entrail-like
innards of their lethal tin-fish,
has been shifted to Rushcutter
Bay (N.S.W.). In its place, the
Electrical School. A deceptive
name. Here gunners with con-
siderable fleet experience come
back for more.
Inside stands the complete
fire-control system of a modern
Battle-class destroyer, the same
as our new Anzac and Tobruk.
The director, 10£ tons of it,
squats with its radar aerials like
two enormous, cyclops-eyes on
either side. These are the
reflectors whose electronic
particles, shot out at the speed
of light, bounce back from the
target, night, fog or smoke
regardless, and give its radge
mathematically exact. Range-
finders par excellence a
gunnery-officer’s dream.
Before it stands a complete
twin 4.5 in. gun-turret, its long
grey barrels sniffing down the
bay. Forty-five tons of it; with,
connected up as it would be in a
destroyer, the Admiralty Fire
Control Clock, that wizard elec-
trical brain which gulps in ranges
and bearings and enemy speeds
and churns out training and
elevation to the guns so
accurately that surface gunnery
is now considered to have
reached the maximum efficiency.
This hefty equipment, among
the most modern productions of
Britain’s back-room boys, was
placed in position from a large
railway-crane, whose wheels,
because of the weight, were
“gripped” immovably to the
rails. The crane started to tilt
under the weight; tore the rails
up. Acting with that swiftness
of action which had made him
a gunnery-officer, the cove in
charge had a manila rope hove
over the jib, called about 95
sailors, and ordered them to
sweat off on the rope—thus sav-
ing crane and its most costly
cargo. So seamanship still is the
primary concern of a fighting
fleet . . .
On the pier, hung from davits,
a seaboat. Being lowered by an
ordinary-seamen class, those in
the boat lifebelted, watching with
apprehension their mates on the
lowering falls, not too happy
about this novel form of lift.
The boat smacks into the bay—
an undisciplined scramble to
unhook, get the oars out; a
snigger from one of the lowerers
up top, quelled by one look from
the instructor. You learn naval
discipline early—or else.
That boat’s crew will be |
lowered till their charge is got
away smoothly. Next week
they’ll be in the whaler of the
corvette snuggled alongside the
pier astern of them —lowered
into the choppy seas of the outer
bay.
You remember, watching your
own instructions in oar-pulling
(never “rowing”) from this same
pier. And how, with your
present companion, then able-
seaman too, the practice of years
at it paid-off when your ship beat
the boats of the entire Mediter-
ranean Fleet in Alexandria. And
how your ship, Cock of the Med.
after the day’s racing, hoisted a
big tin kangaroo at the truck of
her 150 ft. mast for all Egypt to
see.
Your companion leaves you
near the police-office. You look
back across the vast playing-
fields, reaching far back to the
green-hedged ward-room, and see
a group of civvies, loaded gun’les
under with stiff new hammocks
and kitbags; and a couple of
newly - uniformed ordinary-
seamen watching as the recruits
go past. You can’t hear their
cry, but you know it all right.
It will still be “You’ll be sorry!”
But you, you remember as
you pass the police-office without
inspection, weren’t. Not for the
first four weeks, anyway.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS' AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
EUROPE'S REVOLUTIONARY TREATY
“A veritable revolution.” —
M. Herve Alphaud on the
European Defence Community.
“A work of good faith of a
novelty beyond precedent.”—
M. Schuman.
Neither exaggerated. The
finalising of the tentatively
accepted E.D.C. treaty will now
soon be a major issue. It repre-
sents such a 'sundering break
from past practice and all
nationalist tradition in Europe
that it is no wonder the countries
concerned have had second-
thoughts, and doubts which must
soon be resolved, on what their
representatives all agreed to last
May.
And even if the “veritable-
revolution” treaty is ratified
there must still be doubt as to
whether, in actual operation, the
treaty provisions, “of a novelty
beyond precedent,” can possibly
work. They have been well
described by J. H. Huizinga in
one of a series of “Manchester
Guardian” articles as being so
far-reaching and involving such
radical sacrifices of sovereignty
that many cannot bring them-
selves to believe that the signa-
tories of the treaty were really
in earnest about them.
One clause of the treaty,
Article 106 (Huizinga emphasises
it as “crucial”), lays down that
“the production, import and
export of war-material as well
as the manufacture of prototypes
and technical research relating to
war-material is forbidden except
with prior authorisation as pro-
vided for in paragraph 3,” and
there is nothing at all ambiguous
about the paragraph mentioned,
either. The paragraph, in fact,
simply clinches the provisions of
the clause, so that, when and if
the treaty is ratified:
“The French Ministry of
Defence, for instance, will no
longer be able to order the
manufacture of a single machine-
gun, whether at home or abroad,
without first having obtained the
permission of a commissariat in
which its nationals will be
heavily outnumbered by
Germans, Italians, Belgians,
Dutchmen and Luxemburgers,
and which will take its decisions
by a simple majority vote. And
exactly the same, of course,
applies to all other signatories.”
Much opposition to the revo-
lutionary treaty, particularly
French opposition, has sprung
from the fear that Germany
cannot be “contained” within the
E.D.C. framework, but can be
bound-in only within that of
Nato. Huizinga comments:
“The perversity of this theory
jumps to the eye the moment
one asks oneself whether the
members of Nato would be pre-
pared to accept such a self-deny-
ing ordinance as the members of
E.D.C. have imposed on them-
selves by Article 106. That
acceptance may or may not
prove durable. But anyone who
fears the ‘German danger’ and
who has to choose between a
Germany that has forsworn the
right to arm as it sees fit (without
thereby being any the less ‘con-
tained’ in the Nato framework)
and a Germany that would regain
the same independence of action
in this respect as the British or
American members of Nato
insist on retaining is obviously
bound to choose the former.”
There is much more than that,
too, of a revolutionary character.
Thus, the six countries will have
not only given up their right to
decide, for themselves what they
require for their defence and
where they shall buy it: they
will also have renounced their
freedom of action in equipping
such allies as they may choose
for themselves. If, for instance,
“the Quai d’Orsay should want
to supply the Lebanese or
Syrian forces with arms from
French factories it will first have
to get permission from the
Commissariat before a single
rifle or hand-grenade can leave
the country.”
These things alone would be
more than enough to explain the
forceful opposition of French
nationalists, such as De Gaulle ;
and there are more still:
“Think what it means that
under the treaty St. Cyr, the
French equivalent of Sandhurst,
will lose its national character,
not only because —like every
other military college in the new
Europe of the Six —it will have
to open its doors to German,
Italian and Benelux cadets, but
also because nationals of these
countries can even be appointed
to the staff —which, moreover,
will receive its directives no
longer from the French Ministry
of War, but from the multi-
national Commissariat.
“Or consider the provisions
relating to the appointment of
commanding officers. The
members of a traditional coali-
tion have always jealously main-
tained their national freedom of
action in this respect. With them
the institution of a single com-
mand, requiring the choice of an
agreed commander, has been the
exception that has proved the
rule.
“The Six, on the other hand,
drawing the inevitable conse-
quence of their decision to merge
their national forces into a Euro-
pean Army, are pledged to leave
all appointments to either a
majority decision of their Com-
missariat or, in the case of the
most important positions, a
unanimous decision of the
Council of Ministers. Moreover,
even the promotion of officers
above the rank of major-general
(as distinct from their appoint-
ment to a specific command) is
no longer left to the national
authorities concerned but also
requires a joint decision.
“It all seems to add up to a
total renunciation of national
freedom of action in the vital
field of defence.” And the
revolutionary break with all past
practice in the military field is
made in the economic also;
“Just as the E.D.C. treaty con-
stitutes a sixfold act of national
renunciation whereby its signa-
tories abdicate the right of inde-
pendent action for the protection
of their frontiers, so they have
pledged themselves in the treaty
setting up a European Coal and
Steel Community to an equally
far-reaching renunciation of
their freedom of action for the
promotion of vital economic
interests.”
The question now coming up
for final answer is to trust or not
to trust Germany:
“And it is from Paris and
Paris alone that the answer must
come. For whatever doubts may
be felt about the reliability of
the Germans in Rome, Brussels
or The Hague—in actual fact
one hears surprisingly little of
them in these capitals—there is
no question that they are pre-
pared to take the risk. It is the
French, frightened by their own
audacity or rather by that of
their leaders, who are hanging
back.”
Middle East Fears
In one important point the
liquidations that have lately been
going on in Russia, Czecho-
slovakia and elsewhere behind
the Iron Curtain differ from
others in the past.
That is, in such a large propor-
tion of the victims being Jews,
and, just as significant, in the
San Diego (U.S.A.) “Tribune.”
SHADOW OF DOUBT
emphasis put by Soviet propa-
ganda on that very fact.
Most comment so far seems
to accept that at face-value—
simply as an upsurge of inherent
Soviet anti-Semitism. Another
view is that the real explanation
could lie as much outside the
Iron Curtain as behind it; the
Jewish victims could be sacrifices
to Soviet policy of winning over
the Arab world of the Middle
East.
One thing generally admitted
is that the fight for Middle-East
Arab support is to be one of this
year’s main features of the “cold
war” —some overseas commen-
tators regard it as very likely to
prove the most important of all
—and, with the Jewish victims
behind the Iron Curtain taken
as casualties in that fight, more
direct Soviet acts are now
expected.
Withput examining that
possible explanation, London
“Times” has run a series of
articles and reports indicating
that the Middle East, because of
Arab-Israel tension, is about as
promising a spot as Soviet
trouble-making policy could fix
on. In editorial summing-up, the
“Times” emphasises the resultant
sense of insecurity which “at
present profoundly disturbs the
important strategic area of the
Middle East”:
“The immediate cause is
tension between Israel and the
Arab States ; and to this is added
Arab ill-will towards the Western
Powers, who are looked on as
responsible for the emergence of
the Israeli State.
“Israel can point to the
unbending Arab refusal to admit
her existence and to the attitude
of hostility which causes respon-
sible Arab leaders to assert that
the Arab world is only biding its
time before avenging its defeat
in the ‘war of liberation.’ There
is a stringent blockade upon
goods coming from or going to
Israeli territory. Fear of Arab
attacks pervades the Israeli out-
look and policy.
“The fear on the other side is
at least as lively. Throughout
the Arab countries there is deep
anxiety over Israel’s power and
intentions. These countries see
growing up in their midst a new
and formidable State equipped
with the technical knowledge and
material means of the Western
world and attracting Jews from
every continent. They ask
whether so tremendous an up-
surge of Jewish nationalism is
not bound to sweep aside the
narrow confines of Israel’s
present frontiers and threaten her
neighbors.
“At the same time they are
profoundly suspicious of the
Western Powers. The present
mood is one of violent reaction
against the kind of Western influ-
ence which they associate with
past political domination. The
value of the declaration by
Britain, France and the United
States in May, 1950, guarantee-
ing the frontiers of both Israel
and her Arab neighbors against
forcible violation is offset in their
eyes by the failure of the Powers
to enforce against Israel the
United Nations resolutions pro-
viding for the repatriation of the
Arab refugees and the interna-
tionalisation of Jerusalem. So
the Arab States are reluctant to
co-operate with the Western
Powers in planning the defence
of the Middle East.”
A perfect field, it would seem,
for Soviet purposes; one in
which a strong show of anti-
Semitisjn might well be calcu-
lated to return dividends.
New Commonwealth
Edinburgh “Scotsman” looks
the changed British Common-
wealth over (not without some
private thoughts for Scotland
itself):
“Perhaps it would shock the
Queen’s Ministers in the United
Kingdom to be told that there
is now some doubt whether
London is the centre of the
Commonwealth. Except for the
accident of the Queen's residence,
there is little nowadays to sup-
port this view.
“It was recently suggested
from Australia that, in future,
Commonwealth conferences
should be held regularly in the
various member-countries on
some kind of rota basis. The
point is that the Prime Minister
of the United Kingdom is really
now only the Prime Minister of
the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, so
far as the Commonwealth is con-
cerned.
“A writer in the current
number of the ‘Round Table
notes that in the relationships of
Australia with the United
Kingdom and the old British
Commonwealth there was a large
measure of historical, racial and
religious homogeneity. ‘No such
elements,’ he adds, ‘bind the new
British Commonwealth.’ Is the
centre of the Commonwealth
perhaps in Asia? Can the Corn-
monwealth cohere? Is there
perhaps no centre?
“The communique issued after
the Commonwealth Conference
in London is enough to show that
there can be no going back to
schemes of federation or plans
for establishing machinery to
maintain the unity or central
direction of the Commonwealth.
‘My hold of the colonies,’ Burke
said, ‘is the close affection which
grows from common names,
from kindred blood, from similar
privileges and equal protection.’
But these ties, ‘strong as links
of iron' though they have been,
no longer exist to the same
degree. The vestigial anomalies
of dependence on London have
vanished, and we must rely for
continued unity chiefly upon
understanding. ■ A Republic of
India exists; there may some
day be a Republic of South
Africa.
“Though the Commonwealth
is mechanically incoherent it has
surprised its enemies in two
great wars by surviving. But if
it is to continue as a political
reality there must be in London
a greater understanding of the
forces of nationhood.”
Adenauer Interview
From a “U.S. News and World
Report” interview with German
Chancellor Adenauer, given in
Question and Answer form:
Q. Do you think, Mr. Chan-
cellor, that the active threat by
the Soviet Union has increased,
decreased or remained the same
during the last year?
A. Undoubtedly the Soviet
Union has stepped-up armament
in the Soviet zone of Germany
and in the Polish-administered
area, but the degree of armament
has not yet become an actual
threat. However, the danger is
not being reduced; to the
contrary, it is currently being
increased.
Q. Is there not a danger that
the German Soviet-zone army
and the Polish army might
undertake an action against
Germany without open Soviet
participation ?
A. I do not fear it so much
from the Soviet zone. The
greatest threat I see coming from
Czechoslovakia, Apparently, the
Soviets are now engaged in
securing a firmer hold on
Czechoslovakia. At the moment,
they are meeting still certain
difficulties, as the recent trials
have shown. On the other hand,
the Polish Army undoubtedly is
a serious military factor, and a
reliable military instrument in
the hands of the Soviets, since
the Soviet General Rokossovsky
has reorganised it, equipping it
with modern tanks and all that,
and staffing it with Russian
officers. There exists the possi-
bility that the Soviet Union may
make disruptive moves through
satellites. In that case, however,
the danger of a world-wide con-
flagration would not be as great
and immediate as if Soviet
Russia did it itself.
Q. Under that circumstance,
would not the strengthening of
European defence through
German units be especially
important ?
A. Important and desirable.
That is also Eisenhower’s point
of view.
Q. In some European countries
there has been talk of the possi-
bility or advisability of stretching
out armament plans. In view of
Soviet policies, would you
consider such a stretch-out as
advisable?
A. No. I would rather con-
sider that as dangerous, since all
that kind of thing is reinforcing
the Russian hope of ultimately
achieving their desired goal ot
disintegration.
Q. Increased emphasis may be
placed now by the U.S. on a
psychological offensive against
the Soviet Union. What possi-
bilities do you see here of an
active participation of the
German Federal Republic ?
A. I consider a stronger
psychological action absolutely
necessary. The West is not


informed enough about the
threatening dangers. The people
believe, because nothing has hap-
pened since 1945, nothing will
happen in the future either.
Especially great efforts are being
made by Soviet Russia to influ-
ence our people by psychological
means. You can’t imagine how
we are swamped with piles of
pamphlets and declarations every
day.
Q. American circles had
thought in the first place of
carrying new ideas, ideas of
freedom, into the Soviet-
controlled areas —
A. That isn’t even as necessary
as carrying the ideas to the
countries which are in immediate
danger and enlightening the
people there. The people in the
eastern, Soviet-occupied, zone
know by personal experience.
They don’t need to be told what
it’s like to be ruled by the
Soviets ; they know. Just go to
Berlin to the refugee-reception
camps. I was there. There you
will see at a glance what it is all
about. You can get it from
reports from Brandenburg
Province or Pomerania, where
the peasants, being burned-up
about the regime, simply refused
to dig up their potatoes and
beets. They know exactly what
the score is, but the asses here
amongst us, they don’t know —-
and that applies to a lot of others
too, who are not really dumb.
New Jap Army
Stating that the new Jap
Army is off to a good start, and
that “a Navy and Air Force will
be next,” “U.S. News and
World Report” sees Japan well
set “to regain her traditional role
is a major Power in the Orient.”
The build-up of Jap military
strength (it adds) has top priority
in American strategic planning:
“It’s a multibillion-dollar under-
taking, with the U.S. expected to
shoulder much of the initial cost.
“This new Army is being
patterned after that of the U.S.
rather than the old Japanese
Army. Where the old Army
emphasised manpower, with
‘banzai’ attacks by waves of
infantrymen as a standard tactic,
the new Army emphasises
mobility and. fire-power. Each
new division will be a powerful
combat team with as much fire-
power as possibly eight of the
former divisions.
“American military authorities
want to have the new Army
expanded to 300,men —14 to
16 divisions —by 1955.”
Japs' Lost Market
Particularly for Japan, the
U.S. has pictured South-East
Asia as “the future market of
the world.”
Leading Japanese have their
doubts. Prime Minister Shigeru
Yoshida (notes London
“Financial Times”) has said
bluntly that he does not believe
that trade prospects for Japan
in that quarter will ever be a full
or satisfactory substitute for the
—temporarily? lost China
market.
“This public opinion, which
coincides with the private views
of Mr. Malcolm MacDonald,
British Commissioner-General in
South-East Asia, sets the official
seal on growing Japanese doubts
and discontents with United
States urgings to seek the glit-
tering treasure of trade at the
foot of a rainbow on the road to
Mandalay or somewhere.
“The plain truth is that
Japanese efforts to stimulate
trade with this tropical jumble of
Oriental Balkan-like States are
still lagging. A record number
of delegations, missions and
experts have visited the area —at
first hopefully, later doggedly,
now wearily—and on return
have amassed a great mountain
of reports and recommendations.
But the tangible results have
been meagre.”
There may yet be a rich
harvest for Japan in South-East
Asia, but “the fruitful reaping
seems a remote and distant
prospect, especially while the
forbidden fruit of the old China
market remains so tantalisingly
near behind a bamboo screen,
which— most Japanese business-
men hope and believe —may yet
be rolled up.”
Shirking Defence
“It would be madness for any
country of our alliance to court
national bankruptcy by spending
cne dollar or one shilling or one
franc more than its national
economy can afford. You must
not create just those conditions a
potential aggressor wishes to
create in our countries —condi-
tions of poverty and the lowering
of living standards. We must not
lose the ‘cold war’ in our efforts
to avert a ‘hot war.’ ” — Lord
Ismay, Secretary-General of
Nato.
That is one point of view, and
from a highly respectable
quarter. It is the reason (or the
excuse) for the all-round scaling-
down of Western defence pro-
grammes. Coupled with it are
expressions of optimism regard-
ing Russia’s apparently less-
belligerent attitude.
The very opposite view has
been expressed by General Ridg-
way (supported by Eisenhower
and by Montgomery). As the
West’s Supreme Commander,
Ridgway has said, in effect, that
the still ill-defended Western
countries are merely shirking,
with the need for the utmost
defence effort as great as ever.
Popular support is, of course,
on the side of easing off; but
Ridgway has vocal backing here
and there. Thus, Montgomery;
“Today you have our political
chiefs telling us that the danger
of a hot war has receded, but
they don’t say why. The reason
is what has been going on in the
last four or five years—the efforts
of free nations to rebuild their
strength. If that is true, I think
you’ve got to realise that if we
are going to be spared the
horrors of a hot War, for the
time being we are not going to
be spared the horrors of a cold
war, and I would say we are in
for a very unpleasant period.”
“The fact that Europe has
chosen military weakness as a
lesser danger than economic
hardship,” comments “Man-
chester Guardian,” “cannot be
hidden by reassuring phrases.
“The United Kingdom's
defence programme is said to
have been planned with an eye
to averting the split in the
Atlantic alliance which is the
Kremlin’s dearest wish—the
theory apparently being that if
DON’T GIVE UP THE SHIP
Baltimore (U.S.A.) “Sun.”
Europe runs on to economic
rocks in attempting to rearm as
fast as the Americans and
General Ridgway want, then the
alliance will somehow fall apart.
“The reasoning may be sound
and it may in truth be wiser to
produce fewer but better-armed
divisions and a few Vulcans,
Valiants, H.P.Bo’s and Javelins
than more underarmed divisions
and obsolescent Meteors. But
everybody would have been
happier if General Ridgway had
not expressed his disagreement
so forcibly.
“Last year at Lisbon the
generals and the politicians at
least struck some sort of balance
between economics and defence
which satisfied the honor of both.
Their failure to do so this year
is made no less bitter (and to
the Kremlin no less cheering) by
vague talk of economic, social
and cultural co-operation and the
‘evolution of a peace-time com-
munity of interests built around
the Atlantic and the free nations
of Europe,’ ”
Even more emphatic in point-
j n g the danger, London
“Observer” has commented that
w hat all the fine phrases about
“quality not quantity,” “cold
war no j hot wa r” and the like
rea lly seem to mean is simply
that the Nato defence effort in
Western Europe is to be
slackened off with the goal of
Western European security
unachieved:
“This potentially fatal
decision is taken, ostensibly, on
the strength of intelligence
reports to the effect that the
Russians have no intention of
starting a war in Europe. The
p i ain S fact is that Russian
rearmament is going on
unabated, while Western rearma-
ment is t 0 be cut ; and the plain
rea son for this is that the West
does not think it can ‘afford’ the
necessary rearmament—in other
words, that it has not the nerve
to pay what it cos ts.
“it may have to pay a far
heavier and more tragic price if
the Russians return to the aggres-
sive policy from which, faced
with the apparent Western deter-
mination of 1951, they had
temporarily recoiled.”
“New York Times,” likewise,
has referred to an Eisenhower
statement as providing “powerful
support to General Ridgway’s
thesis that what Western Europe
needs is not a slow-down in
defence preparations, as decreed
by the Governments and
accepted at the recent North
Atlantic Council meeting, but a
speed-up because West Euro-
pean defences are ‘dangerously
inadequate’ and because any idea
that the danger of war is abating
is mere ‘wishful-thinking.’ ”
Quoted here a year ago,
London “Observer” foreign-
affairs commentator Sebastian
Haffner, basing his view on what
the Western nations in Nato
intended to do in 1952, reckoned
last year as Russia’s last chance.
Russia did not take the chance,
but, says Haffner now, “Unfor-
tunately the Western basksliding
means that it was not in fact, as
it might have been, her ‘last’ one.
Under present prospects,
Western Europe will continue to
lie under the shadow of possible
Russian invasion in 1953 and
1954 and, indeed, for any fore-
seeable time.”
Excluded Germany
An early difficulty for Eisen-
hower, but one which both he
and his Secretary of State, Dulles,
are especially fitted to cope with,
will be that of finalising the set-
Los Angeles ( U.S.A .) “Times.”
HOW TO CHURN BUTTER IN A CANNON’S MOUTH
up of the at-present-deadlocked
European Defence Community—
mainly the problem of on what
terms Germany can be fitted in.
In “New York Times” Pro-
fessor W. Friedmann, of Toronto
University, who served with the
Allied Military Government in
Germany from 1944 to 1947,
suggests a solution which will
probably be adopted:
“Nato has been built up with
great difficulty into an organisa-
tion which now possesses a super-
national command structure and
a political framework in which
14 nations co-ordinate their
defences on a basis of legal
equality and open discussion. It
is unfortunate that French
suspicions were allowed to
prevail against the sensible
course of inviting Germany to
be a fifteenth member of Nato.
It is likely that France has
thereby increased, not
diminished, the danger of
German assertiveness.
“Recent interviews with lead-
ing Social Democrat politicians
in Germany have convinced me
that an invitation to join Nato
would eliminate most, if not all,
of the objections they have
against the E.D.C. This might
well be the only way left of
associating Western Germany
militarily and politically with the
West in a manner which would
not create a deep and dangerous
cleavage inside Germany.
“Here is an opportunity for
initiative on the' part of the
Western Powers which does not
mean interference in German
internal affairs and might save
both France and Germany,
Franco-Merman relations and
the whole structure of Western
defence from a very dangerous
crisis.”
Various Voices
The Archbishop of York, Dr.
Garbett: “It is a grim reflection
of post-war England that the
building of prisons should have
a priority if crime is to be
checked.”
General Templer: “Our task
is to build this plural racial
society of Malaya into a nation.
It is not easy—l have to drive
them along the road that leads to
self-government. When I say
self-government it must be
remembered that the'people of
Malaya themselves realise it will
be very long before they can dis-
pense with British help and co-
operation. There is no question
here of leaving the Common-
wealth.”
German Chancellor Adenauer:
“I have declared repeatedly that
I do not want the creation of a
German national army, and that
for two reasons: First, we do
not have the required weapons
nor could we produce them. We
cannot produce them for lack of
money and for lack of means.
What is the use of a national
army if one could make for it
nothing but a few hand-grenades
and a few carbines? Second, I
believe that really there should
be no more national armies in
the midst of Europe. We will
never get a European confedera-
tion if each country or princi-
pality has its own army.”
T. O. M. Sopwith, chairman
of the Hawker Siddeley aviation
companies: “There are three
things that have brought the
[British] aircraft industry to its
present peak of achievement.
They are courage, enterprise and
enthusiasm. There is one thing
which would wreck this virile,
progressive industry surely and
completely. That one thing is
nationalisation. Nationalisation
inevitably means mediocrity, and
mediocrity means the downfall
of the British aircraft industry,
the downfall of Britain as a first-
class air-power.”
Anthony Eden, on “the triple
thread of British responsibility
“Britain in the Commonwealth,
Britain in Europe and Britain in
the Atlantic community—this is
the company in which we stand.
We have good friends, and we
need good friends, for the respon-
sibilities of nations can now no
longer be borne unless they are
shared.”
Aneurin Bevan {on the Vienna
“Peace” Congress): “A fake, a
clay - pigeon, a decoy. An
attempt to divert the attention
of the working-class from what
is really happening.”
Swiss Professor William Rap-
pard: “Only those countries
that consume more than they
produce suffer from the so-
called dollar-gap. Unless they
intend to rely permanently on
outside help, be it American or
European, they must either re-
duce their commitments to
America or increase their ex-
ports to that country. That is
an achievement which does not
at all necessarily call for any
international institution but
which cannot be brought about
except by a change of national
policy.”
Truman {winding up his
seven-years Presidency) :
“Future historians may recog-
nise some mistakes. But on bal-
ance I believe they will say that
never in history did a great
nation respond so effectively and
promptly to new and unaccus-
tomed problems as did this
nation in the past seven years.”
U.S. atomic chief, Gordon
Dean: “There is no known way
to slow down the hydrogen ex-
plosion to give it a peace-time
use, like that of uranium-type
atomic energy,”


to speak, the aroma of cheap
perfume that had been hanging
around floated into the scrub,
and I knew that our visitor was
well on his way.
But what of Saint? He was
looking at me most suspiciously
and as coldly as a High Court
judge, as if accusing me of hav-
ing gone over to the enemy, and
depriving him of the opportunity
to prove his efficiency in the
special line he’d been trained
for. After another friendly but
determined and long-drawn-out
contest 1 eventually succeeded in
getting him back to his residential
quarters and chained him up.
Having got this done, I
inspected the lump on my fore-
head. It was doing well, and 1
wouldn’t have minded had it
grown to the size of a duck-
egg: in which case I’d regain
some of my lost importance at
school, and perhaps the Spitters
would realise what a narrow
escape they must have had from
also having a lump raised on their
forehead as large as a duck-egg.
COME nights after this we all
looked up suddenly at each
other; and no one spoke.
Saint had begun to bark; a
different kind of bark for him ;
not loud either. Again it came
and again we looked up at each
other, and, for some unknown
reason, apprehensively so.
“Better go and see!” said
Mother.
When I got to him, he’d run
round and round the pole he was
chained to and was panting, and
when he saw me whined and
whimpered, standing up on his
hind-legs appealingly and pawing
to reach me.
Something was wrong with
Saint!
I tore over to the house and
got the lantern, and when I got
back he was tossing about in a
frenzy and came and trembled,
and barked little, short, desperate
barks to me. A terrible suspicion
suddenly hit me, and I undid his
chain (he did not struggle this
time), and rushed him over to
the house, just outside the
kitchen door, and Mother got a
jug of salt and water, and, while
I tried to hold his head back and
keep his mouth open, tried to
pour it down his throat.
But he was too big for us to
handle, and she couldn't get
much of it down. He broke away
then and ran frantically around,
round the house, over the yard,
back again, and then rushed
under the tank and sat gasping
and panting loudly.
-I called to him soothingly and
he gave a hopeless whimper. I
couldn’t stand it. I dragged him
out somehow and he raced to the
dam, plunged in and swam round
in furious circles, like a whirl-
pool, while we all stood on the
bank calling to him, the light
from the lantern showing his
blazing eyes. He rushed out of
the water, went spinning round,
jumping at Mother, leaping at
me, his mouth wide open, his
tongue far out and his great,
terrible barks of agony now
filling the night.
We couldn’t do a thing with
him tearing round like a mad
dog! We had no man about
to, handle him! Then Mother
said we’d get bitten and rushed
us all inside and slammed the
door and we stood pressed to it
listening while he came and
pawed the door and whined
piteously to us, his two big front
paws thrust through the space
under the door, as if trying to
open it.
“I’ve got to go out to him,
Mum,” 1 said brokenly. “He’s
my dog.”
He was lying stretched out just
outside the door and froth like
soapsuds was bubbling out of his
mouth. Now we could handle
him we poured more salt and
water down his throat, and a lot
of it went down and the rest
flowed out of his mouth, taking
little rivers of froth with it. We
got more salt and water and gave
it to him, calling his name, Saint!
Saint! Saint! Only his eyes
moved. Then his legs stretched
out, and there was no more
movement and the light went out
of his eyes.
“Too late!” said Mother, and
we all stood round in the lantern-
light looking at the hideous,
tortured grimace of death that
was his mouth.
“The Indian did it,” I sobbed.
T DIDN’T go telling anyone
A about Saint being poisoned ;
I was 100 upset to go yapping
about that. I worked it out that
1 was a bit responsible for it,
too teaching him to hate
Indians.
So Saint had no “firing-squad’’
(like a soldier) and didn’t take
more bullets to die than his
brother had required to
accomplish that end.
But in the end, with the heal-
ing hand of time, I couldn’t let
Saint go out just like a poisoned
rabbit; he deserved more than
that; and I owed it to him, too.
And so a legend got round that
he*d been found, a good while
after he’d been lost, lying dead
beneath a tree in the bush with
a dead Indian up the tree.
And do you know, that legend
I created about Saint has never
left me, and ever since then,
whenever I’ve been in the com-
pany of men telling yarns about
the wonderful dog they’d once
owned, I’ve found myself telling
them of a dog I once had that
took me six weeks to tie up, who
treed an Indian, and I’d tell them
that if ever they happened to be
passing along a certain part, on
the road to Wagga Wagga, and
came across the skeleton of a
human being up a tree—well,
that was the Indian, and if they
should happen to see a skeleton
at the bottom of that same tree
that looked like the remains of
an elephant, or a draught-horse,
or a rhinoceros with a dog s
head, then that was Saint; and
I’ve told it so often that some-
times I get lost in what was fact
and what was fiction, and
actually believe it myself and
also that —when he barked the
lamp went out.
Oatgut
by OLIVER FILTER
A COUPLE of years ago,
with optimistic visions of
sylvan solitude, I acquired
three acres of bushland on
Sydney Harbor, built one of
those two-rooms-now-more-later
dwellings, and persuaded my wife
and son to relinquish a chrome-
and-plush flat, and to take to the
bush with me. We have been
wonderfully unhappy there for
two years, and would be content
to go on that way if it weren’t
for Oatgut—occasionally also
known as Pi-Pi, Fourgut, Nana
and Goatface.
Oatgut is really my indirect
penalty for a parking offence.
One night several months ago
two policemen struggled through
the bush and over the rocks and
cliffs that separate me from the
nearest road to deliver a “come-
to-court” invitation. The first
of them asked how we got to
our place normally, and when I
told him we used the path by
which he had just come he
assured me “There’s no blasted
path down that blasted
mountain.” The other cop
opined “You ought to keep
goats.” I laughed politely and
then discovered that he wasn’t
being facetious. He kept goats,
and, as he assured my wife,
“They’re wonderful things ; great
pets ; great milkers.”
He didn’t sell me on the idea
of goats, but, as usual, my wife
did. Her initial decision that “a
little white goat would be nice”
was followed by the irrefutable
argument that, as no milkman
would ever be mad enough to
come within half-a-mile of our
place, we would have to live on
powdered milk—generally un-
obtainable by honest shopping—
for the rest of our lives unless
we got a goat.
There was, of course, much
more than that to the process of
persuasion, and I went abroad
the next day making tentative,
and, finally, determined, inquiries
about goats. Without a great
deal of trouble I found a fellow
who enthusiastically gave me a
list of goatkeepers from here to
India, taking in New Guinea and
other odd spots on the way. I
selected people who seemed to
be within a reasonable distance
of my place, reduced it to half-
a-dozen who had telephone-
numbers, and began ringing
them. I eliminated the half-
dozen very quickly—all of them
thought goats were marvellous
but, unfortunately, none of them
at that moment was keeping
goats.
A natural suspicion led me to
plunge a little deeper into the
business of goatkeeping, and I
came up with a stack of folders
from which it seemed that the
cost of keeping a goat in lucerne,
chaff, oats, bran, meal, salt-
licks and what-have-you was just
about enough to keep me in
food, milk included. If that
weren’t sufficient deterrent, there
were also a formidable amount of
information about sheds, fences
and so forth which would have
to be built, a long treatise on
midwifery and the upbringing of
kids, and a final topping-off with
an article-long paragraph listing
all the diseases and ailments to
which goats are prone.
My logical decision never to
own a goat under any circum-
stances, however, was con-
founded before I announced it.
My son had also been carrying
out a search and had passed the
information oh to his school-
teacher. With almost suspicious
haste the teacher arrived in his
car and presented us with a ten-
days-old kid.
TF I thawed slightly at the sight
of the rather helpless and
engaging little animal, my wife
melted almost to the point of
evaporation. She carried it as
tenderly as she carried our son
eleven years ago ; she took from
her wardrobe clothing that still
had twelve months’ wear in it;
she commandeered an excellent
packing-case which had pre-
viously been judged too good for
any purpose for which I might
want it; she quickly obtained
bottle-and-teat; and from there
on at four-hour intervals from
before dawn until long after
sunset she gave the animal as
much milk, I suspect, as it will
ever give back to us, if and when
we ever milk it.
It would take a chronicler of
the endurance and discernment
of Scott to record the six-months
history of Oatgut up to the
present, and to estimate the
character that lurks behind its
shrewd* calculating amber eyes.
I can only report that, while the
animal performs all manner of
engaging tricks to your face, it
metaphorically butts you the
moment your back is turned. I
can only dissolve into anecdote.
There was, of course, the
handsome paling-yard I built
over three or four weekends.
Oatgut was proudly led in, and
the gate closed. She satisfied her
curiosity with a cursory inspec-
tion of her confines and then
delicately and effortlessly stepped
between the palings into the free
world again. I spent the next
two weekends taking down the
palings and replacing them two
inches closer together. Oatgut
didn’t even try to get through
them ; she made a brief inspec-
tion of the place again, backed a
few feet and then sailed over the
fence with a leap of which a
kangaroo would have been
proud.
Her simple solution to tether-
ing was to bleat. Loving silence
as 1 do, she was soon a free goat
again. Later, when I steeled
myself to the peculiarly penetrat-
ing quality of her call, she de-
veloped such a proficiency with
knots that I think she could have
undone a double Turk’s-head ; if
that failed her she simply sat in
the sun with a contemptuous
smile on her face while she lazily
chewed through the rope.
■pARLY in the piece I watched
•*-' with some tolerance when
she nibbled her first poppy ;
there were plenty of lettuce,
anyway, and the stocks were
nearly finished. My wife winced
slightly when the gardenia buds
were deprived of their chance to
bloom, but, after all, the glory
of a garden is nothing to the
promise of fresh milk twice
daily. I finally took the attitude
of a friend who has some affec-
tion for possums, and who,
finally convinced against his will
that the paw marks around his
devastated beans and peas were
not made by cats, gave up gar-
dening. No flowers grow now,
and the greengrocer, although
he doesn’t know it, is being paid
for our milk of the future.
Flowers and vegetables Oat-
gut will not eat unless she can
pick them herself; peelings and
scraps she disdains. Biscuits,
particularly the chocolate
variety, she munches with ex-
travagant and ungrateful haste ;
selected plums and nectarines
are easily disposed of, and the
stones spat out; she will eat
oysters on the waterfront as fast
as they are opened for her, much
to the chagrin of the cats, for
whom the operation used to be
performed ; she has mastered the
latch on the door of the lavatory,
and will stand therein con-
tentedly munching and slowly
unrolling the toilet-roll. She
ignores lucerne-chaff and meal,
and will only deign to nibble a
few oats when completely con-
vinced that there is nothing else
on the menu.
If by some chance a door is
left open she sneaks inside noise-
lessly and will demonstrate her
intelligence by proving she
knows the exact whereabouts of
the porridge, the breakfast
cereals, the fruit-bowl and the
bread-crock. She has never
broken crockery-only crystal
flower-vases when she picks the
most select bloom therefrom.
Having accomplished that
much and if not already dis-
covered, she will either find a bed
on which to relax and regurgi-
tate, or leap gracefully on to the
sink and stand there with a
peculiar expression which, as far
as my wife is concerned, guaran-
tees her immunity from punish-
ment. It is much simpler to lead
her out of the house with a
chocolate-biscuit than to push or
chase her, after which my wife
insists that the biscuit be given
to the goat and not put away for
future use.
T SUPPOSE most of those
things could have been en-
dured as part of being wonder-
fully unhappy, and even I
could still derive a measure of
interest and entertainment from
the spectacle of Oatgut skitter-
ing across the landscape or
careering with incredible sure-
ness down the boulder-strewn
hillside and stopping, when
stopping seems impossible, right
on the very brink of a cliff. But
unfortunately the situation has
become complicated. My nearest
neighbor is a gardener, and has
not the philosophic resignation
of a goat-owner. Gladioli are
his strength, two or three hun-
dred every year of a wonderful
and bewildering assortment of
colors and combinations of
colors.
He is a pleasant man who
lends his tools, co-operates in all
things and shares his beer. We
like each other. When he first
heard Oatgut’s bleat float up the
hill from our place he was
politely interested, but a vague
expression of unease flitted
across his face, and the glance
he gave his garden had some-
thing of the quality of a protec-
tive embrace. On the first occa-
sion that he noticed that the
shoots of his young gladioli were
down by a ragged half-inch he
talked gallantly of the possi-
bility of possums and wallabies.
The hoofprints were unmistak-
able after the second onslaught,
and only my abject apologies
kept us neighborly. The last
occasion was disastrous.
It would seem that Oatgut
selected the wrong time to ven-
ture abroad, and, with barefaced
effrontery, made straight for the
bed of gladioli while my neigh-
bor was cultivating it. He didn’t
mean to do it, of course, and my
sympathies are with him. He
came down like a man with the
goat and showed us the small
nick with a little blood flowing.
He apologised and said, with
perfect truth, “I just swung to
frighten her.”
Had I been in his shoes I
would probably have swung to
execute, buried the evidence and
remained silent for ever. That
attitude didn’t help, however,
and for a time the air was thick
with references to weeds like
gladioli and the tender feelings
of valuable animals like goats.
It passed, as such things do;
the gladioli are flourishing and
the goat is skipping about with
greater abandon than ever. But
there is in the atmosphere a
brooding calm with an awful,
indefinable promise about it.
Other neighbors are building
around us, and other and more
succulent gardens are blooming.
Almost every day the goat ven-
tures farther afield and lifts her
nose to the scent of more color-
ful pastures ; almost every day I
see the neighbors looking to-
wards her with meditative cal-
culation, what time their
knuckles whiten around garden
implements. I am a peaceful
man at heart, but now the sight
of the goat, or even of a gladioli
or a garden tool, reduces me to
a state of almost unbearable
pessimistic depression.
YESTERDAY I met on the
bus the schoolteacher who
presented us with the charming,
helpless little animal. After some
formal conversation I asked
hopefully after his goats, think-
ing perhaps he could add another
to his flock.
He was confidential: “As a
matter of fact I got rid of ’em.
Couldn’t find anyone who
wanted ’em, so I drove them out
into the Forest one night and
let them both out of the car in
a lovely spot by a creek. They’ll
be as happy as Larry there.”
I’m sure they will be. I’m quite
sure Oatgut would, too. But I
know my wife wouldn’t like
living like that.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
BRANDAUERS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experi-
ment wi'th
imitations.
C. Brandauer & Co. Ltd
Birmingham, England
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE KNIGHT formerly of Worn-
boyna Road New Lambton. —TAKE
NOTICE that EILEEN MARY KNIGHT
has filed a Petition No. 4400 of 1952 for
DivorcS on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and on the grounds that you
have during three years and upwards been
an habitual drunkard and have habitually
left her without the means of support
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney New South
Wales by the 10th April 19'53 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from F. W. REILLY, Solicitor, of 79
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROYAL KELSON WILLIAM EMERY
late of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
ELIZABETH EMERY has filed a Petition
No. 4504 of 1952 for Divorce on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney New
South Wales by the 10th April 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from P W. REILLY, Solicitor,
Of 79 Elisabeth Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN.. Registrar.
Coronation Bound?
# Here is a comprehensive service that will free you
from all worries on your trip overseas to England
and the Continent. We will arrange all your travel
bookings, accommodation, tours, sports fixtures,
etc., and, if required, have a new self-drive car
awaiting your arrival in England, complete with
your International driving licence. Self-drive car
hire rates from £l6 per month. Free mileage
allowance, free insurance cover, free A.A, service.
Payment if desired in
Australian currency
TRAVEL SERVICES LTD.
69 Knightsbridge, London, S.W.I
or
G.A.T. TRAVEL SERVICE
73 Pitt Street, Box 3470, G.P.0., Sydney.
Phone: 8L3453 (8 lines).
/
wm
mm:
■ : :
WmMWm
mmm
//
ASK ME ANOTHER"
When the incomparable Jack Davey says “Ask Me Another
to the panel of four every Tuesday night on a nation-wide
Macquarie radio network, he proves each week that this
immensely popular feature is ideally suited to his outstanding
talents. Working aompletely without script, his nimble brain
quips have established him as one of the
world's foremost radio personalities.
“Ask Me Another” —can they find it in 20 questions? —is
presented by the manufacturers of Eno and Brylcreem, and
is produced by the Maccfuarie Broadcasting Service.
2GB 2HR 2CA 2WL 2LF 2LT 2MG 2MW 2PK 2AD 2HD 3AW 3CV 3GL
4BH 4BU 4GY SDN SRM 6IX 6WB 6MD 6BY 7HO 7LA
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Rifle wanted, .375 Magnum or simi-
lar.—s 422.
To purchase cartoon-books by
David Low.—5423.
Words of verse “Queensland Pests”
beginning:
Queensland, thou art a land of pests,
From fleas and flies one never rests.
Even now mosquitoes round me revel,
In fact they are the very devil.
—5424.
Anyone got “Handy Hints for the
Farm” for a soldier-settle'r?—5425.
Name of the French author who
wrote “Je donne remerciments au bon
Dieu que les Epines ont des Roses,”
and name of work in which they ap-
pear.—s 426.
Copy of original Billy Book by
Low.—5427.
Words of poem “The Bushman’s
Farewell” or “The Pommy’s Fare-
well.”—s42B.
Information Sought
(1) Does Australian law authorise
punishment of crimes by the “lash” ?
(2) Is punishment by the “lash”
common in England?
(1) New South Wales law (the
Crimes Act 1900, Section 435) pro-
vides that a male person over 16
years convicted of any one of a
specified list of offences may be
whipped, the number of strokes being
limited to fifty, and a boy under 16
convicted upon indictment of any
offence may be whipped up to twenty-
five strokes. Provision is made for
supervision by a surgeon and other
safeguards are provided. Similar pro-
visions exist in other Australian
States. No such sentence has been
passed in N.S.W. for many years,
though on rare occasions sentences
have been passed in other States. At
no time in N.S.W. has the criminal
law not contained such a provision.
(2) In England whipping as a punish-
ment was abolished in 1948.
* * * *
Did Lough Neagh ever win a Mel-
bourne Cup? What races did he
win and the value of his stake-earn-
ings ?
Lough Neagh, considered in his
time one of the most versatile horses
racing, never won a Melbourne Cup.
At his only start in a Cup he finished
tenth to Peter Pan in 1934. He was
then a four-year-old. A chestnut
gelding by Bachelor’s Persse from
Tarentia, raced from his two-year-old
season until he was in his ninth year,
Lough Neagh won many notable
races, including the Q.T.C. Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes, Q.T.C. Derby, Q.T.C.
King’s Plate, Brisbane Cup, Doom ben
Newmarket, Chipping Norton Stakes
(twice), Randwick Plate and A.J.C.
Plate. All told he won 32 races, fin-
ished second on 23 occasions and was
third 31 times. His stake-winnings
amounted to £18,871 at a time when
prizemoney was drastically reduced.
He raced against and beat such fam-
ous horses as Yeilmond, Hall Mark,
Allunga, Kuvera and Contact.
« * * *
It is a fact, is it not, that the
Alsatian is the only dog which will
mate with a dingo ?
Sorry, but domestic dogs (usually
bitches) readily mate with dingoes.
Many a kelpie bitch has gone bush
with a dingo, and cases have been
known of the kelpie rounding up
sheep while the warrigal kills. There
are, however, numerous evidences of
half-bred Alsatian-dingoes, both in
N.S.W. and Queensland, and such a
cross becomes a real menace, partic-
ularly in sheep country.
* * * *
Why do mullet leap?
According to T. C. Roughley, there
is no certain explanation, but, as many
animals are known to play, it is most
likely this that causes the mullet to
jump out of the water. It is
certainly not done to escape from
enemies beneath, for apparently the
mullet gets great enjoyment out of
jumping, just as many higher animals
enjoy diving into the water.
* * * *
When a writer uses [sic\, what does
he mean ? When should it be used?
Sic is Latin for “thus,” “so.” It is
inserted after a quoted word or phrase
to confirm the accuracy of the quota-
tion—to show, for instance, that the
writer quoting has not erred in re-
printing ; it is sometimes used after
a writer’s own word to emphasise "that
it is deliberately used. It amounts to
“Yes, he did say that” or “Yes, I do
mean that,” to quiet a reader’s natural
doubts. It should be used only when
doubt is natural.
* * * *
What are the ingredients of a home-
made liquid paint- and varnish-re-
mover, and how is it prepared?
There are many redpes, some of
them containing very strong acids and
alkalis. For a useful home-made
paint-remover mix one part turpentine
and two parts ammonia. Shake well
together until the mixture looks like
milk. Apply to the painted surface
with a piece of rag on a stick, and
leave for a few minutes, when the old
paint can be wiped off.
* * * *
(1) What are the duties of the chair-
man at a wedding-breakfast? (2)
What are the usual toasts, and in what
order ?
(1) To conduct the ceremony at the
breakfast-table; introduce speakers
who are to propose toasts. (2) After
the toast to the Queen, the first toast
is to the health of the bride and
’groom, and it should be proposed by
the most distinguished male guest
present, for which the ’groom should
return thanks. The bridegroom should
then propose the health of the brides-
maids, for which the best-man should
return thanks. The health of the
bride’s parents should be proposed by
the bridegroom’s father. Lastly is
the toast to the ’groom’s parents.
* * * *
Most of the paintbrushes I use
“moult” quickly. Why?
It is a mistake to use a new brush
without first “suppling” it. No
matter how clean the brush appears,
take the hair-end between both.palms
and work the brush-head back and
forth through the hands; a large
amount of dust and loose hairs will
come out. Now place the hair in
water for a few minutes, then swing
and shake it in the open air. It is
then ready to dip in the paint; any
loose hairs will work out within half
an hour, and can easily be picked off.
* * * *
Difference between “continual”
and “continuous”?
“Continual” describes something
which is always going on or recurs at
short intervals and never comes (or
is regarded as never coming) to an
end. “Continuous” describes some-
thing in which no break whatever
occurs betweeen beginning and end.
Some examples from literature of
both words: “terms of continual re-
currence” (Carlyle); “a continuous
series” (De Quincey); “continual and
regular impulses of pleasurable sur-,
prise” (Wordsworth); “analytic studies
are continuous, and not to be pursued
by fits and starts or fragmentary
efforts” (De Quincey).
* * * *
(1) Results of Australia v. S. Africa
in S. Africa in 1949-50? (2) What
were Keith Miller’s Test averages in
that series?
(1) First Test, Aust. 413; S/A. 137
and 191; Aust. won by innings and
85 runs. Second, Aust. 7-526 and
2-87; S.A. 278 and 333 ; Aust. by
eight wickets. Third, S.A. 311 and
99; Aust. 75 and 5-336; Aust. by five
wickets. Fourth, Aust. 8-465 and
2-259; S.A. 352; drawn. Fifth, Aust.
7-549; S.A. 158 and 132; Aust. by
innings and 259 runs. (2) 246 runs,
highest score 84, av. 41; 17 wickets
for 390, av. 22.9.
* * « *
What was the trouble between the
British and Queensland Governments
over the annexation of New Guinea
in the eighties of last century?
In 1867 a company was formed in
Sydney to colonise the southern por-
tion of New Guinea, and it approached
the N.S.W. Government for financial
assistance. This was not forthcoming,
but it brought the matter to the
notice of the British Government, re-
ceiving back a declaration from the
Colonial Secretary to the effect that
“Her Majesty’s Government can give
no plan of voluntary settlement in
New Guinea the sanction of Imperial
authority.” The Imperial Govern-
ment then and for the next couple
of decades was chary of assuming
colonial responsibilities. The N.S.W.
Government persisted in its demands
for annexation, particularly when gold
was discovered on the New Guinea
mainland in 1878, causing a rush of
Australians thither. Also, Germany
began to show renewed interest in the
area. The Queensland Government
then acted on its own initiative —in
April, 1883, it annexed New Guinea.
The Home Government repudiated
Queensland’s action —“Her Majesty’s
Government are unable to approve
the proceedings of your Government
in this matter.” In 1886 Britain pro-
claimed sovereignty over the southern
part of New Guinea and the
Solomons, and in June, 1888, letters-
patent were issued erecting New
Guinea into a separate possession.
The island’s political status has, of
course, undergone other changes since
then.
Brief Answers
S.E.: The date of Gandhi’s assas-
sination was Jan. 30, 1948. He was
on his way to an evening prayer-meet-
ing in Delhi. The trial of the mur-
derer, a Hindu fanatic named Nat-
huram Vinayak Godse, began on May
27, 1948, and ended on Feb. 10, 1949.
Godse and an accomplice, Narayan
Apte, were found guilty of murder and
on conspiring to murder and were sen-
tenced to death. Five others impli-
cated were sentenced to transportation
for life A.T.C.: (1) The titanium
mineral won from the beach-sands of
the N.S.W. North Coast is rutile. (2)
The grade of material shipped is prac-
tically pure rutile (titanium oxide).
(3) It is shipped in bags. (4) The
material is sold to various overseas
interests through agents in N.S.W. and
, Queensland. (5) Ilmenite occurs in
many of the beaches of N.S.W. and
southern Q’land, but is of little com-
mercial value at present owing to the
presence of small amounts of im-
purities .... R.K.:, Try * Frank Ham-
bridge, Pty., Ltd., ore-merchant, 22
Bridge-street, Sydney, or O. T. Lem-
priere and Co. Ltd., smelters and
metal-merchants, Bowden-street, Alex-
andria both N.S.W E.T.:
Thanks for verses. They have been
forwarded to inquirer E.J.R.:
Frank Clune lives at t Vauclus'e
(N.5.W)....G.W.G.: Unable to trace
any poet named Arnot. The writer
of the lines you cite (“God will give
seed to the sower in spring—Not alms
to the sluggard in harvest”) was prob-
ably Andrew Arnot, an 18th-century
American Presbyterian minister who
took an important part in the early
organisation of the Reformed Church
of America... .M.S.M.C.; Submit a
sample of the bark to Dr.
Anderson, Australian Leather Re-
search Association, Hope.- street,
Lane Cove (N.S.W.). Unlikely
to be aa export market for the pro-
duct P.D.D.: The Australian
Association for Better Hearing (men-
tioned in reply to you in B. 14/1/’53)
has its headquarters in Melbourne;
there are branches in all States and
also some sub-branches. Assistance
in the matter of hearing-aids is avail-
able to ex-servicemen who can prove
their disability is definitely due to war-
service J.K.M.: Benzol and ben-
zene, which are obtained by distil-
lation from coal-tar, are the same.
(Benzol is commercial benzene.) Ben-
zine is derived from petroleum. Both
benzene and benzine have similar uses
—motor fuels, solvents, etc
K.J.T.: Write the Youth Hostel As-
sociation of N.S.W., 393 George-street,
or the Victorian League (N.S.W.
branch), 19 Bligh-street—both ( Sydney.
.... R.C.C.: The estimated population
of England and Wales—that is, Britain
(not Great Britain)—was about
8,400,000 at the beginning of 1788.
This is agreed on by most authori-
tative historians. The population of
Australia at March 31, 1952, was
8,598,609.. , .J.J.: “To epilate” is to
remove or eradicate hair. The person
you mention who styles himself an
“epilatist” is doubtless a barber
V.W.: For the 1951-52 wheat harvest,
the figures for N.S.W. and Victoria
are as follows: N.S.W., area under
wheat, 2,748,000 acres; production,
41,400,000 bushels; av. yield per acre,
15.07. Vic., 2,463,574; 45,994,752;
18.67. Estimated wheat harvest for
this season, Vic. 40 million bushels;
N.S.W. 33 million bushels....
C.M.M.: Varsovians are inhabitants
of Warshw.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
G.T.: On a long trip like five or
six thousand words a Cobb & Co.’s
coach slibuld carry more passengers.
....M.W.: Pity it’s your last story,
but you neglect the effect of gold
on sentimental resolutions N.N.
Somehow it didn’t work up into a
story... .F.S.: Too much sugar....
R.H.: We didn’t live through
“Violent Night”.. . .C.E.: Cicadas
are bad enough as it is, but with human
speech they’d be worse than the atom-
bomb J.T.: Neither M.L.:
Drab... .G. 8.; “Crime On His
Hands” is off ours P.G.L.: No
apparitions J.M.: It’s only a little
harder to read now you’ve hocked
your typewriter... .A.M.P.; “The
Bus” missed it... .C.8.A.: Keeping
policeman-crook stories out of the
mechanical rut is hard, and you don’t
manage it M.E.H.: Afraid not.
K.McA.; Pleasant family-party,
but nothing happened R.A.; Ah, if
outback cuties are all like that
there’d be no drift to the cities....
J.W.: A little too flat S.F.A.:
Sorry, it’s too generalised.... R.W.:
No use writing satire on politicians
unless you can cite particular in-
stances. .. .F.H.F.: What, again!....
P.W.: Strong meat for us babes....
Z.V.W.: Sorry.


LYS
proof
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
V . ' : V- .
~ ' sj * 'ft ,|t(L $
»■-*, <: . - -It
Jp.
wm
0
y- A ;•
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Ptyl Ltd.
Reg'd Office & Works, BlackwaU Pt. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, Wl RE NETTING
, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Breeding Theories
“Oxo”: Breeding theories had
many critics at a conference in
Scotland, where some of the
world’s expert breeders outlined
the methods which had won
them success.
Captain MacGillivray, of the
famous Calrossie Shorthorn
stud, who sticks to the theory
that like begets like, attributed
his success to keeping his cata-
logue in his pocket at a sale and
buying cattle on their merits, not
on their pedigrees. On line-
breeding he said there were not
many herds in Scotland good
enough to line-breed; securing
type-uniformity was not enough.
Animals had to be rugged in
constitution.
He bought bulls to correct de-
ficiencies in his herd, but it was
not the bought bull but its sons
which he depended on to do
what he required. Replying to
a question, MacGillivray said
he placed as much reliance on
the female as on the male.
James MacFarlane, of Sel-
kirk, a prominent sheep-breeder,
condemned both line- and in-
breeding. He considered it fatal
to do either when animals had
to exist under conditions which
meant the survival of the fittest.
He knew of entire hill-flocks
which had been ruined by such
breeding methods, and others
had recovered only by the intro-
duction of fresh blood. It was
a mistake, he considered, to
overuse a new ram or his sons ;
if he was a prepotent animal
he would implant on flocks his
faults as well as his good
qualities.
George Ross, of the noted
Kilmarrock Friesian herd, said
an importation from Holland in
1936 had greatly increased
butterfat production in Friesian
herds and put constitution into
animals. At the premier Friesian
sale in November last 25 per
cent, of the bulls offered were
line-bred to this sire.
M. Templeton, Goshen Bank
Clydesdale stud, said it was
easier to line-breed horses than
cattle or sheep; indiscriminate
crossing gave a far greater
chance of producing misfits. Hav-
ing secured a good stallion and
mare, the aim should be to bring
the second generation together.
A good stallion’s grandson could
safely be mated to the same
stallion’s daughter or grand-
daughter ; he had not found that
such close-breeding had had a
bad effect.
While supporting line-breed-
ing, R. G. Murray, stud pig-
breeder, of Spittal, Biggar, said
“Never mate two line-bred ani-
mals which have similar faults in
conformation, otherwise those
defects were liable to be accen-
tuated by 200 per cent, in the
progeny.”
H. D. Baxley, Gay Hill
poultry-farm, Birmingham, said
he had never been success-
ful with inbreeding; eventu-
ally body-size and stamina were
lost. He got the best results from
not too close line-breeding, com-
bined with outcrossing. He kept
to the same bloodline, outcros-
sing for a generation or two,
then going back to the original
bloodline. Baxley contended that
50 per cent, of successful breed-
ing depended on management.
Fleece Diseases
“Hux”: Cause of lumpy-wool
(mycotic dermatitis) is a fungus
that grows in the fleece in wet
seasons. The organism attacks
the underlying skin and sets up
inflammation. A sticky secre-
tion exuded from the parts mats
the wool fibres together; in the
worst cases it adheres to the
skin, and a raw bleeding surface
is left if it’s torn off accidentally.
Large areas may become covered
with scabs somewhat circular in
shape. Crusts formed eventually
drop off, taking the wool with
them. Backs and sides of the
animals are the parts most
affected. Being deep-seated in
the wool, the presence of the
disease often escapes notice till
shearing-time.
To destroy the fungus, dip
the sheep in a solution of 11b. of
bluestone to 50gal. of water and
follow-up with a second dip
within 10 days. Copper-sulphate
at this strength doesn’t stain the
wool. Autumn dipping gives
best results.
Frequent soaking of the wool
causes fleece-rot —distinct from
lumpy-wool. Bacteria in the
loil of sheepyards are carried into
the wool by dust. If the
weather’s humid the organisms
multiply quickly, and, as in
lumpy-wool, set up an inflam-
mation from which a watery
substance is exuded that glues-
up the fibres. Investigation
shows a greyish-yellow band of
matted wool up to |in. wide
close to the skin. Some species
of organisms color the wool in
different shades. Withers, back
and sides are usually attacked.
Since the bacteria are widely
distributed through the soil
there’s no known cure.
Systematic culling of open-
fleeced sheep is a method of
control.
Pig-management
“M.”: Given clean, well-
drained sties and yards, with
dunging-pens separated from
sleeping-quarters, the pig is not
a dirty animal. When well
looked after it is as clean as any
other domestic animal.
Essential to economic pig-
raising are sunny, well-graded
sites for yards and sties (the latter
facing north-east for adequate
sunlight), ample room for each
pig and sufficient shelter and
shade. At regular intervals the
yards are best ploughed or, if too
small to plough, dug over and
limed.
A better method is to use
movable shelters and feeders,
and change the paddocks every
two or three months, making
sure that the drainage from the
paddock in use does not run
through those being spelled.
Warmth is vital for comfort
and to keep the animals thrifty.
A cold pig will eat more food to
maintain body-heat, and put on
less condition for each pound of
“ There's SOMETHING in that fertiliser !”
food consumed than a properly
housed one.
Silo Capacity
“C.S.”; N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture has issued a table
showing the bushel-capacity of
circular silos of various combina-
tions of height and diameter;
Internal
Diameter Height of Cylinder in Feet,
(feet). 6 8 10
6 132
8 235 313 n
10 367 489 610 £
12 529 705 881 p
14 719 959 1199 »
16 939 1252 1565
18 1189 1585 1981 V S'
20 1467 1957 2446
22 1775 2363 2960 £
24 2110 2815 3520 g.
26 2480 3310 4140 2.
28 2870 3840 4800 •
30 3300 4400 5500 J
As loose grain exerts a con-
siderable downward and outward
pressure, the construction of
round silos of galvanised iron
should be careful and precise.
Grain keeps better at lower
temperatures, but is rapidly
spoiled by moisture. A suitable
site, therefore, is one which is
high, dry, level and if possible
sheltered by a belt of timber.
Any minor levelling should be
done by cutting down rather
than by building up, as loose
soil is likely to sink under the
weight of grain and affect the
stability of the silo.
Grassland Agronomy
“Springvale”: Three main
factors are involved : The
biotic (largely under man’s
control, and one of the main
instruments with which the
agronomist maintains stability in
pastures); the edaphic (also
controllable, the condition of the
soil, changeable by mechanical
means, cropping, or the use of
fertilisers); the climatic (reason-
ably stable, but the influence
upon soil and crops can be
modified under wise pasture-
management).
Briefly, the biotic factor,
through its effect on soil condi-
tions, can offset the influence of
climate. Appropriate seed-mix-
tures, coupled with correct
methods of manuring and pas-
ture-management, will produce
good grasses in a normal dry
summer or even in a normal
winter.
Farming systems based on the
long lea give flexibility in crop
output. For arable crops, • the
lea period can be reduced to a
minimum, so that, when the need
for grain becomes urgent, the
standard of soil-fertility is still
at a high level.
Haphazard but continuous
grazing without regard to good
management leads to derelict
grasslands ; and it is tragic, but
true, that a quarter of Australia’s
pasture areas lie derelict, or are
fast becoming so. Anthills are
common on these waste-
lands, both under high- and low-
rainfall conditions. This makes
mowing impossible, ecological
succession gains momentum, and
scrub develops.
Every settler in arid areas
should have a basic training in
ecology and grassland agronomy.
Fumigating Potatoes
“Plane Creek”: It’s no use
trying to fumigate potatoes with
carbon bisulphide when tempera-
ture is below 70deg. The
warmer the weather the better
the results.
Spuds should be fumigated in
a nearly airtight room or com
tainer. Fill shallow pans with
carbon and set them on top of
the seed. The gas sinks to the
floor and rises like water in a
tank as more and more is
evolved. Close the receptacle and
don’t disturb for 36 hours.
When opening-up and airing
I the tubers beware of the gas—it
is highly poisonous and inflam-
mable. Queensland Agricultural
Department recommends the use
of 41b. of carbon per 1000 cubic
feet. Germinating - qualities
aren’t affected.
Saving the Soil
“J.G.”: D. L. Lamy, officer-
in-charge of Wagga (N.S.W.)
Soil Conservation Research
Station, recently announced that
over the past year 30,000 trees
had been made available to
farmers. In the midst of badly-
scarred country the station is
surrounded by stands of
eucalypts, fodder trees and others
suitable to the district. In other
areas eucalypts form windbreaks
to protect buildings and sloping
country.
Some stands have reached 15ft.
to 20ft. in five years. Some
hundreds of ironbarks, yellow-
box, river-redgum and Tas-
manian bluegum have been used
for avenues. In a few years the
scgne will be one of great tree
beauty.
A farmer calling for advice
regarding erosion is attracted by
the trees, and is advised as to
which species he should plant to
stop wind-erosion. Usually he
leaves with 60 young trees in his
bag. Many thousands of tree-
seedlings are now being
hardened off for autumn
planting.
Recent research into rainfall-
intensity as a cause of erosion at
Wagga showed the value of
pastures in absorbing water.
Following a three-month period
of heavy rainfall, soil losses on
pasture-plots were as low as
1961 b. an acre ; on wheat stubble-
pi ots the losses increased to
16191 b. an acre and on fallow
were assessed at 40891 b. an acre.
The figures show the wisdom of
reducing the fallow period to the
minimum.
In most parts of the Wagga
district the sub-soil lies close to
the surface, and where there is
no vegetation on steep slopes
heavy downpours sweep away
the rich surface-soil to lower
levels. The Conservation Service
holds that because of this weak-
ness in the soil structure hillside
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The 1953 summer rains should continue into February
along the whole eastern coastline of Australia, throughout
the month in the tropics, but mainly in the early part
elsewhere.
Professor Loewe, of Melbourne University, suggests
that, as the cycle mentioned by Bruckner and called after
him has several other phases, the use of the term might be
misleading to other scientists, and, as the phase I use was
discovered here as a result of the interaction of the mag-
netic fields of Jupiter and Saturn, it really is my own
discovery and therefore shall be called the Crohamhurst
cycle from now on.
In this Crohamhurst cycle there is indicated a dry period
In the autumn and early winter in Queensland and northern
and western New South Wales, and it will also be cold.


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can Instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
'DISTKIBUXOBS: ——-
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00.
(N.S.W.). 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia DissolVenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen ,St„ Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty„ Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Build-
ing, Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R, P. Me-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St.. Perth.
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee. Radolectris
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
Co, (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers,
Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Cham-
bers, Raffles Place.
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
761bs.
I
vs
and
12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Sturdy battery - charging
lighting set
HARDMAN & HALL,
44 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
HE HAS A
. . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARBERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BAHRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
barbebe DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3j), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
VISITING MELBOURNE?
Hire and Drive a Modern Car
from
SHEPPARD’S GARAGE,
36 Toorak Road, South Yarra.
Phone:
Windsor 1870. After Hours, BJ 1957.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8, White; A, 0. 0. Parker,
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING- INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
TILLEY Regd. Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
• ' ' i
For quality —for economy —for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X246! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on 1J pints of Kero. 300 Candle Power.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores MODEL X 246
Manufacturer’s Representatives: i (“THE GUARDSMAN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
areas in the district should not
be cultivated.
In the Honey Field
“B-Herd”; It’s been a heart-
break season for bee-men in
north-west N.S.W. For the
fourth year running the harvest
has been about a tin per hive—
just enough to pay for petrol
and keep hope ticking over.
However, isolated patches of
yellow-box yielded heavily. And,
what’s'more, yielded best where
new growth was most evident.
Up along the nor’-west slopes
trees that threw no new growth
and bloomed like cauliflowers
threw no nectar, either.
Thirty miles away in a differ-
ent direction trees that looked
like a “poor kill” in a selector’s
paddock, with half of them gone
to new growth, filled the colonies
in a week, A dozen or more bee-
men passed these poor patches
by, making for country which
carried only bud —and missed
out on a flow. For most or all
of them it was an experience
that confounded both teaching
and experience in a lifetime of
following the flows.
Following close on the bloom-
ing of the yellow-box trees, the
twisty, graceful little silverleaf
(ironbark, Euc. melanophloia )
sent out new growth and set its
bud. No rain fell for the two
months it developed, nor had
rain preceded its budding. Too
dry, the bee-men said. Silver-
leaf must have rain to yield. The
game little tree, in favored spots,
finished up filling the hives to
overflowing twice.
There must be a reason for
this odd behavior. Bee-men
cannot discover the reason with
their hit-or-miss, wait-and-see
methods of honey-production.
Is there a scientific man about
the country who could knock
around with the bees for a while
and give bee-men a lead?
Mongrel Cattle
“Rider”: “Australia is the
only beef-producing country in
the world which encourages
breeding of mongrel cattle for
beef,” says Allan Campbell, of
Billabulla Shorthorn Stud,
Young (N.S.W.).
“If Australia is to take its
proper place as a cattle-raiser
there must be no half-measures
about it. Existing herds can
enormously increase present
output provided the herds are
kept pure.”
Indiscriminate use of beef-
breeds with dairy cattle is eco-
nomically unsound, he said. A
dairy-cow can perform a useful
function in producing dairy pro-
ducts, but to co-opt it in a cam-
paign to get more beef is a
waste of time and money,
“Nowhere in the U.S. or
Canada is mating of beef with
dairy stock encouraged, because
stockmen in both countries
quickly realised, when the ex-
periment was begun marty years
ago, that it was unprofitable to
sacrifice quality and quantity for
the speedier production of
veale^.
“A pure-bred beef animal at
18 months of age earns a pro-
ducer much more than a mon-
grel-bred beast at the same age.
Mongrel-bred stock eat as
much food as a pure-bred ani-
mal, but lack the constitutional
ability to transform the food
they eat into beef as speedily
and as effectively as pure-breds.”
Campbell said the beef-pro-
duction potential of N.S.W.
alone was enormous. Every
grazier should have a minimum
herd of 20 beef cattle for each
1000 acres of good-quality
country he owned. It was sound
farming practice, with current
markets for beef stock buoyant,
to run beef on properties now
used almost exclusively for other
grazing and pastoral enterprises.
Campbell has just returned from
a world tour of cattle studs.
Citrus Pests
“H.C.”: Citrus-trees attacked
by leaf-roller caterpillars should
be sprayed with agricultural
D.D.T. (50 per cent.) at the rate
of loz. to Bgal. of water. To
oust thrip, scale insects and black
aphis, prepare a solution of a
pint of summer-oil and five tea-
spoons of nicotine-sulphate with
4gal. of water. Spray well at
three-weekly intervals until the
pest goes.
Presence of the citrus-borer is
indicated by sawdust-like
powderings on the branches or
trunk of the tree or by small
holes or dying foliage. Before
treating, remove dead, dying or
diseased twigs or limbs; those
attacked by borers should be
burnt. To kill the borers, fill an
oilcan with neat petrol and inject
it into the borer tunnels.
Another method is to paint the
trunk and limbs with 1 per cent,
wettable D.D.T., repeated when
the first painting wears thin. The
D.D.T. will also destroy the
larvae.
Potato Sprouts
“Sundowner”: Experiments
with chemicals to check potato-
sprouting are likely to benefit
growers, particularly in storage
between harvest and the scarce-
supply period of September-
October.
The most effective chemical,
I.P.P.C. —or tuberite, as it is
known in trade circles —will also
minimise weight-loss and shrink-
age. The commercial product
contains 2.4 per cent, active prin-
ciple and should be applied at
31b. per ton. At the current price
treatment cost will be about
£1 3s. 6d. per ton.
For bin-storage treat succes-
sive layers with a dust-gun as the
bin is filled. For bag-storage
loose shaking of half-bag lots
prior to sewing and stacking is
best. If you haven’t used the
chemical before try it on an
experimental portion of the
harvest.
Hints for the Farm
“X. 8.”: Fifty thousand copies
of a bulletin on shearing will be
issued by the Australian Wool
Board with copies of the revised
edition of the board’s “Hand-
book for Woolgrowers,” which
is now being prepared. The
bulletin will be issued in co-
operation with the South Aus-
tralian Department of Agricul-
ture, which originally published
the information contained in it.
Hie bulletin will set out, pic-
torially and by letterpress, the
correct methods of sheep-shear-
ing.
“Composto”: To make sure
of a high-germination ratio for
the seeds of root-vegetables,
keep in mind the old Chinese
proverb, “The finest manure is
the foot of the farmer,” and tread
the rows down firmly after sow-
ing. Red-beet seeds which have
been steeped in warm water and
allowed to soak for 24 hours
before being given this treatment
will have an almost embarrass-
ingly high germination-ratio,
“C.A.A.”: Where the price
compares favorably with that of
wheat, oats can be used in a
50-50 mixture with wheat for
poultry. A convenient way to
do it, says A. A. McArdle, S.A.’s
poultry adviser, is to feed oats in
place of wheat at the midday
meal and continue with wheat
in the evening. Crushed oats
can also be used as the main
ingredient of the wet mash if
the price compares favorably
with bran and pollard on a
pound-for-pound basis. Oats
also give excellent results when
incorporated in a dry mash, and
are one of the recommended
controls for feathering trouble
or cannibalism in flocks. When
turning over to oats make the
change gradually to avoid upset-
'ting the laying of the birds.
“Springvale”: The caterpil-
lar of the orange-butterfly is
about 2in. long and dark-green
and yellow. By feeding on the
growing shoots of lemon-trees in
late summer it may severely
damage young trees. Spray with
a solution of lead-arsenate—llb.
to 30gal. of water. The addition
of half a gallon of white-oil will
make it effective 1 aganst scales.
Alternatively, a combination of
D.D.T. 0.1 per cent, and white-
oil 1 in 60 may be used. Don’t
use lead-arsenate if trees are
bearing fruit.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
One Parliament
Economist Colin Clark, in an article,
quotes Mr. Cameron—initials not speci-
fied —as saying that “some people thought
they could run the whole of Australia
from Canberra. The confusion this
would cause would have to be experi-
enced, because it could not be
imagined.”
Well, with a single Parliament the
British built up the best and most stable
form of government the world has ever
seen, and devised the most adaptable
and elastic yet enduring Constitution that
the world has ever known. They
accomplished revolutions in agriculture
and industry, transport and communica-
tions, and made discoveries in science
and technology that placed them—where
they still remain—among those who play
a leading part in the world’s progress.
Their humanitarian legislation, their
administrative reforms and political
innovations have earned them well-
merited praise. Their explorers, traders
and missionaries have played a notable
part in discovery, the development of
commerce and the civilising of the
primitive peoples of the world.
They built up a merchant-marine
greater and a Navy more powerful than
any that preceded them. Their ships filled
the sea-lanes of the world, their products
flooded the markets of the world and their
Navy swept the skull-and-crossbones from
every ocean in the world.
They built up the world’s greatest
empire. From London they administered
or supervised the affairs of people differ-
ing widely in race, language, law, custom
and religion, and living in every conceiv-
able terrain and under every conceivable
variation of conditions. In the course
of all that, without blinking an eye, they
colonised Australia and set her on the
path leading to nationhood.
And now Mr. Cameron tells us that
we, who are people of the same breed,
cannot even govern Australia from
Canberra !—G. H. (N.S.W.).
Latin
Despite “F.S.’s” condemnation (B.
21 /1 / ’53), there is something to be said
for teaching Latin in our schools. In
the all of 40 years since I left school I
have not opened a Latin textbook, but I
am still reaping the benefits of what was
then drummed into me.
Certainly no books are now written in
Latin, nor is anyone speaking it today—
but about half the worlds population
uses speech with a high proportion of
words of Latin derivation. With Latin
tucked away in the back of the memory
you have a clue to the meaning of many
foreign words, not to mention English
words, and, knowing their roots, you are
better able to appreciate the often subtle
difference between two words of similar
meaning. You are a better master of
English.
Latin, of course, remains the common
basis of scientific nomenclature. Talk
to, say, a Yugoslav ornithologist of the
kookaburra and he will probably look
blank. Call the bird Dacelo gigas and
you are speaking a tongue with which he
is familiar. Moreover, gigas will tell him
that it is a particularly large member of
its species.
As for languages in schools, we should
break away from the almost traditional
French and German. They may be use-
ful enough for boys whose careers may
call for ability to read French and Ger-
man textbooks, but in commerce they are
wellnigh useless. It would be wiser to
encourage youngsters to learn Japanese,
Chinese, Dutch (as spoken in Indonesia),
Hindustani or any of the tongues of our
nearer neighbors with whom we are
destined to enter into closer and closer
relations, — Hist (N.S.W.).
Does the fact that no books are now
written in Latin render its study com-
pletely useless? There is not better aid
than Latin to the correct spelling and
general knowledge of English itself;
Latin, after all, is the main source of our
language. For instance, I never had any
more trouble with the word “Mediter-,
ranean” after learning the Latin terra.
It’s hardly possible to read or write a
sentence without bumping up against a
word derived from Latin. Latitv is prob-
ably the most concise language of all, and
a knowledge of it undoubtedly makes for
clear, direct and forceful statement; and
for a well-equipped vocab. it’s a great
help.
Study of Latin is a sound mental train-
ing. How otherwise account for the fact
that in the R.A.A.F. in war-time it was
found that air-crew trainees with a
grounding in Latin were quicker and
more successful in their air-training
courses?
Grant the importance of “sociology,
history, economics, philosophy and litera-
ture” (and add technical and manual
know-how), but beware of education
being too utilitarian, too much a training
“for living, not for life.”
Latin is useful for many in that train-
ing “for living,” but it will be doubly
necessary while there is still any educa-
tion “for life” —to give a basis for that
culture which is part and parcel of the
British way of life. — Keima (Q.).
Future of Dairying
On present prices butter cannot com-
pete with margarine, and the restrictions
on margarine will be repealed before very
long ; the public will see to that. Butter
is vulnerable at another point, too. A
subsidy on a locally-consumed product
is hard to justify, except as a stopgap
policy in an emergency; a subsidy
on exports is 10 times worse, yet it is
only the export subsidy that is holding
up the present price-structure. The whole
trouble is that costs have got out of hand.
Dairying provides a large part of our
export income, and we couldn’t easily
replace this from other sources. Also,
much of our best dairying land is not well
suited to other forms of farming, so the
death of the industry would mean a big
drop in total production, just when the
cry is to produce more, export more
and make the best use of every acre.
Successful dairying is partly an art,
partly a science. For the first the farmer
depends on intuition and experience ; for
the second he has the Departments of
Agriculture and the C.5.1.R.0. behind
him. But it must become also a business,
run on sound business lines, with costs cut
to competitive levels. We must sell that
idea to the farmers and have expert
advice available to help them improve
their business efficiency—quite a different
thing from their technical efficiency, which
is already fairly high.
Second, we must free ourselves from
our obsession with butter. It is nice but
not essential, and there will always be a
demand for it, if the price is fair. Whole-
SUPER
TOVI
Co.
“Am I supposed to tow it or carry it, lady ?”
milk is replacing it in some areas, but
that is not the complete answer. Cheese
is a most valuable food and cheap by
present-day standards. A pound of cheese
contains half-a-pound of butter, nearly all
the protein of wholemilk, and most of its
calcium and other minerals. Yet the price
is computed solely on butterfat content,
so it sells for about the same as the half-
pound of butter. The other, and more
valuable, ingredients are given free.
We have, practically speaking, two
kinds of cheese in Australia —cheddar and
processed. We need the wide range of
types that is available in Europe, and a
really good publicity campaign to make
Australians cheese-conscious. Then, to
the benefit of both producer and con-
sumer, we can stop feeding the best part
of our milk to calves and pigs.
As to the vexed question of hours and
conditions of work on dairyfarms, far
too much guff has been spouted over it
on both sides. To those who like it, it
offers a highly satisfying life ; to those
who don’t, it’s plain hell.
And, finally, put it to the credit of
the cocky that, since 1940, butter and
cheese prices have risen less than the
basic wage. — Magnoon (Q.).
How gullible do the leaders of dairy-
industry pressure-groups think the public
are?
The favorite cry of dairyfarmer
pressure-groups is that their game is
unprofitable. If that is so, then the
majority of producers are losing money.
One wonders, then, by what financial
feat the farms and farmers in dairying
districts contrive to appear so prosperous.
Farms are. being bought every day at
up to £lOO an acre, often more. The
buyers should be gathered into a
psychological research laboratory so that
it might be seen what manner of men
these are who, contrary to every law of
human nature, so willingly enter so bank-
rupt an industry at so high a price.
People will believe the yarn that the
industry doesn’t pay when land- and
stock-values tumble, and when dairymen
begin to act and appear as if they are
losing money. It is time to end the game
of hitching prices to a fictitious produc-
tion-cost.- D. V. F. (Vic.).
New States
N. S. Wales Premier Cahill reports
that, from 1939 to 1951, the population of
his State increased by 588,412, of whom
543,880, or 12 out of every 13, were
added to the already densely-populated
Newcastle-Sydney-Wollongong area.
For 12 years “Labor” Governments
have concentrated so much of their
developmental works within the confines
of these three coastal cities that the
letters N.S.W. might now reasonably be
taken to signify Newcastle-Sydney-
Wollongong.
Country-generated power has been
grabbed for the big cities, and the country
has supplied building materials cornered
by “Labor” for its Housing Commission,
which has erected 87 per cent, of its units
within the chosen area. Rural taxpayers
are being forced to subsidise transport
losses to the tune of £3,000,000 this year,
while country railway-users have to foot
staggering rail bills to comply with the
Premier’s edict that the railways must
pay their way.
A few weeks ago the Cahill Govern-
ment cut the allocations for country main-
and trunk-roads by over 8 per cent., but
there was no such cut for similar roads
in the County of Cumberland. Land-
holders in the country have had their land
confiscated at 1942 values, plus 15 per
cent, to those who submitted abjectly, but
owners of land to be resumed under
Sydney’s “master-plan” are to be compen-
sated at current values.
The only way country people can get
away from the burden of Newcastle-
Sydney-Wollongong Governments is by
the creation of new States. —K. Me.
(N.S.W.).
Merchantmen in Korea
Merchant seamen who serve in Korean
waters find the war strangely different
from the 1939-45 show. Troopships take
soldiers to Pusan; tank-landing ships
carry tanks, vehicles and stores from
Japan’s Inland Sea to Inchon and
ammunition to Suyon Bay. Tank-landing
ships are run by the British R.A.S.C. To
those who officer the ships the R.A.S.C. is
the-Army’s grocery department; the ships
are the “grocers’ Navy.”
There’s some mystery about shipping in
Korean waters. None doubts that the
Communists are aware of the sea-routes
used, yet war hazards are unknown. No
ports have been bombed, and the unarmed
ships have not been attacked. Inchon,
close to enemy-held territory, has only
been attacked in the early stages and
then by U.N. forces. Tremendous diffi-
culties would arise were the ports of entry
knocked out.
Submarines are neither in evidence nor
expected unless the war spreads. U.N.
naval forces have control over the Sea
of Japan and the Yellow Sea,
The flovy of British and American ships
on the Japan-Korea shuttle-service is
continuous. It is one of history’s most
drawn-out war operations. The ships
sail like regular cargo-liners plying in
peaceful waters to friendly lands.
Ships sail with navigation-lights on,
with rows of cabin-lights showing through
portholes and with undiminished deck-
lights. During the world wars a man dare
not smoke a cigarette on deck at night
for fear of disclosing his ship’s position
to a U-boat, Such precautions have not
proved necessary in Korean waters.
Escorts and convoy formations are
unknown. Rubbish may be thrown over-
board with a gay abandon as there are no
enemy ships to follow a line of it to track
down a careless vessel. Radio silence is
maintained, but the sole danger to date is
the navigational hazard of frequent fogs
on Korea’s island- and rock-fringed west
coast.
When in a Korean port a British
merchant seamaq receives a bonus of
150 per cent, of basic pay for a minimum
of five days. To American seamen that
is insultingly small. All that either of
them knows of the war is the sound and
blaze of distant guns, not pointing at
them, when working their cargoes at
Inchon. Even there, cargo is worked at
night with ample lighting, though trial
blackouts in both town and harbor have
been efficiently tested.
South of the fighting-line Americans
dominate everything. Merchant seamen
are jailed and fined 150 dollars if
Americans find them ashore. Even in
peaceful Pusan the master of a ship is not
allowed to land —a military officer must
come to him instead.
The British tank-landing ships have
Chinese crews. Many of them have
homes and families in Communist China.
No sabotage or hold-ups have occurred
despite the delicate balance between the
Chinamen’s sympathy toward the Red
cause and their loyalty to the side which
pays their wages.
At present there are only two things for
the merchant seaman to worry about in
Korea. To get in as many trips as possible
to earn the bonus, and to keep the
refrigerator closed to prevent the beer
from freezing. Temperatures fall many
degrees below zero under the influence of
Siberia’s winter Winds —as pleasant as
most other exports from the Soviet.—
Tackline S. (Q.).
Founder of the Scouts
/Baden-Powell deserves credit for what
he did towards founding the Boy Scout
movement, but he was not alone (B.
14/17)53). The man who first thought
of it was Ernest Thompson Seton, born
in England but an American by adoption.
He had already made a name for himself
as a writer of nature books when he
began to write magazine and newspaper
articles, appealing for the establishment
of an organisation which Would keep
alive the woodcraft of the American
Indians.
He proposed to do it by collecting lore
from ethnological records and from those
members of the race who still remem-
bered the ways of their fathers. This
would be taught to each generation of
boys in turn at camp schools, with useful
handicrafts added. The boys would be
divided into tribes on the pattern of the
Indian social structure, led by chiefs and
medicine-men. Tests would have to be
passed to gain admission to the higher
ranks.
The American public thought it a grand
idea, but did nothing about it. Then
Seton received a letter from Baden-
Powell, who was most enthusiastic and
who asked for further particulars. A
long correspondence followed, to end
when Baden-Powell announced his Boy
Scout scheme.
America woke up at last and wanted
Seton to publish his correspondence with
Baden-Powell, to show that he should
at least get some of the credit. H £
refused. “This thing is too big to wrangle
over,” was his comment.
Both men are now dead, but it would
be an act of grace on the part of the
leaders of the Scout movement if they
would acknowledge Seton. H. A-
Lindsay (S.A.).


New Weapons and Old Skills
Isn’t “K.L.H.” going a little too far in
claiming that England has always been
the leader in military armament (B.
31 /12/’s2>? The “Ancient Kingdom”
did not originate heavy cavalry, and heavy
cavalry in the form of a military
aristocracy and its trained men-at-arms
was the effective armed force with all the
European nations and peoples, except the
English and the Scandinavians, from the
defeat of the Emperor Valens at
Adrianople in a.d. 378 to the Swiss
victory at Sempach in a.d. 1386.
When the Western Empire collapsed
and the Legions died, infantry-training
died, too, west of Constantinople. Men
of fighting spirit among the northern
peoples got themselves horses and spears
and joined the retinue of the most-famed
noble who would accept their service.
Every noble had his troop of armed
retainers, and among these troops
weapon-training went on continually. ,
The infantry of the Dark Ages be- /(
came a poorly-armed feudal rabble 11
at the mercy of any fierce cavalry
onslaught. The Frankish and Bur-
gundian nobility were alien to and
conquerors of the peasantry, from
whom they claimed obedience and feudal
service. They got, as well, a burning
hatred that their feudal levies took into
the field with them.. Courage, loyalty and
fighting ardor were not to be expected
from such infantry.
England, however, did develop a hard-
fighting infantry. The battles between the
different Saxon States and between the
Saxons and the invading Danes were
infantry fights, and both sides were fair-
dinkum about it.
There were social levels between thane
and village freeman, but in battle both
were English and their blood and valor
mingled. After the Conquest there was
no love between Norman and English-
man. But William was King of England.
He had promised that “Each man should
be worthy as in his father’s time and none
should do him wrong.” The promise was
kept. The fighting style of the English
remained what it was, and Norman
kings went-to battle in the sure and
certain knowledge that all hands were
fighting to win.
The English soldier came out of the
Welsh wars with the longbow, a strong
and deadly weapon. With the Welsh busi-
ness settled, the Scottish wars simmering
quietly and Ireland left to those Eirising
Normans who seemed to like the place,
English kings turned to the Continent and
Palestine for a spot of fame and military
honor. Why get killed in an Irish bog
when one could go to Guienne or Picardy,
kill French peasants and become famous
for it? But the English military system
did not suit this overseas adventuring ;
the feudal levy could not be kept in the
field for more than six weeks and the
shire militia could not be sent outside its
own shire. English kings and nobles avid
for glory had to hire volunteer fighting-
men. So arose the military companies
that were an expanding feature of Euro-
pean armies during the 14th, 15th and
16th centuries. Among the best of these
were the English longbow companies.
These companies were purely private-
enterprise concerns plying for hire, for
all kinds of military jobs (estimates given
free). There was a captain (manager), a
lieutenant (junior partner), two sergeants
and four corporals (staff) and about 100
men. There was a uniform and a con-
spicuous ensign to serve as rallying-points
and advertisements (Hawkwood Always
Wins). Only men of proved fighting
ability were signed on ; training was con-
tinuous and discipline strict —military
efficiency is impossible otherwise.
It was with a number of such longbow
companies that England won the battles
of Crecy, Poictiers and Agincourt. In
each battle the victory was absolute; the
English casualties were light and the
French losses tremendous. In each battle
the commander relied absolutely on the
fire-power of his infantry, using his
cavalry (the proud nobility of England)
as flank guards, emergency troops and in
pursuit.
Those victories were victories of the
bow, and it was England that introduced
the longbow to the battlefield. But the
bow was a very ancient weapon. It was
known to hunting peoples long before
“It’s still throwing a little to the right.”
there was any civilisation. The Asian
composite bow was a very powerful
instrument, perhaps more 50 than the
English longbow. What was the real
cause of this sudden superiority?
Fire-direction and fire-control. It was
not the bow alone that prevailed, but the
bow plus training, plus discipline, plus
fire-control —those factors employed and
deployed to their fullest extent by bold,
shrewd commanders.
Another factor, basic to all these, is a
prime necessity—steady, cool courage. It
is part of the English national character.
And English military training has always
been a nurturing and stiffening of those
national characteristics. Cticy, Agincourt,
Plassey, Bussaco, Waterloo, Mons—in all
those battles the British infantryman has
faced overwhelming odds; vast assault
columns of appalling ferocity have
advanced upon him only to be stopped
and shot to rags by the swift arrows at
Cr£cy, the steady volleys from the double
line as Bussaco and the searching rapid-
fire at Mons,
Sir Charles Oman claimed in his
Peninsular War that only one other Euro-
pean army could compare with the British
in fire-power. That was the Prussian
army.
The English have invented new weapons
in plenty. Most of these have given
additional fire-power or have been
designed to give fire-power in difficult
situations. All require trained and dis-
ciplined men for their full employment.
And the soldiers of Britain lead the
soldiers of any other nation in the intel-
igent and destructive use of fire-power.—
S. McC. (N.S.W.).
Church History
H. A. Lindsay (B. 14/l/’53) is unduly
severe in blaming Christians of the Dark
Ages for literary and artistic vandalism.
Gibbon took a more balanced view. No
friend of the church, he took full account
of the damage wrought by civil and
religious strife before the Roman
Empire broke up, but considered
other factors, particularly the in-
cursions of illiterate heathen bar-
barians —Teutons, Slavs, Scandinavians,
Mongols, Turks, etc. —more destruc-
five. He was more surprised at
the preservation of so much literary and
artistic treasure than by the destruction
of the residue. He wrote: “When I
seriously compute the lapse of ages, the
waste of ignorance, and the calamities of
war, our treasures, rather than our losses,
are the object of my surprise.”
The library housed in the great temple
of Serapis at Alexandria was admittedly
pillaged “by a Christian mob” when that
edifice was destroyed by order of the
Emperor Theodosius in 389. But 252
years later, when Alexandria was captured
by the Moslems, the library was still
world-famous and of immense size, if
one may believe the story of its destruc-
tion by the Caliph Omar, as related by
Abulpharagius—that the books provided
six-months’ fuel for the public baths.
That is the other side to the legend that
Moslems preserved ancient literature
while Christians destroyed it.
In actual fact, almost every classical
literary work we now possess survived the
Dark Ages only because it was preserved
or copied in some Christian monastery.
The English monk and historian, Bede,
for instance, in remote Northumberland,
corresponded circa a.d. 700 with
Alexandrian scholars. He remarked that
many English clergy of- his day were
fluent in Greek and toured Europe in
search of rare manuscripts.—R. Ogden
(N.SAV.).
Where the Money Goes
That company executive (B. 31/12/’s2'
who said that “Canberra is taking £lOOO
million a year out of industry, and the
money is mostly dead, because, instead of
being ploughed back into production, it
goes in administrative costs, capital works
and interest,” presented an unfair view
of the actual situation.
He ignored the fact that many millions
of pounds raised each year by the Federal
Treasurer are paid back to the States
as their share of income tax. Another
substantial sum has been devoted to the
financing of Commonwealth public works
in order to leave the loan market free to
the States.
If the Commonwealth Government had
collected only its own income tax and
had secured the money needed for its
public works by raising loans, even the
heavily increased defence expenditure
could have been accompanied by sub-
stantial reductions in income tax.
It is the greedy States, with their re-
fusal to face realities in the matter of
public-works planning, that have been
mainly responsible for so much money
being drained from productive enterprise
into Government expenditure. By their
abuse of the Commonwealth Government
for not miraculously finding them even
more cash for their vote-catching works
programmes, they have also contributed
largely to the Federal Government’s un-
popularity.
Restoration of their taxing-powers
should prove a corrective. The taxpayers
will then know who really is getting at
them. No longer will an extravagant
State Government be able, on the one
hand, to court popularity by demanding
increased grants, and, on the' other,
gain political advantage by blaming the
Commonwealth Government for high
taxation.— Terry the Tory (N.S.W.).
“Modem Art”
Norman Lindsay in his review of Sir
Alfred Munnings’s autobiography" (B.
21 /1/'53) put “modern art” where it be-
longs. His complete castigation of the
futile and inarticulate frenzy is a classic
in its own right.
By including in his condemnation the'
newspapers which provide one-eyed “art
critics,” he touched another vital spot in
the sequence of things. Without their
support modern art would remain confined
to a few frustrates.
There is, however, another disquieting
aspect to this noxious epidemic. Most
of the art-teachers in Government-con-
trolled schools and technical colleges are
carriers of it and are steadily infecting
the younger generation.—F, J. (N.S.W.).
Family Health Service
The U.S.A. has a name for it —they
call it the Family Health Adviser Service,
and, at the University of Pennsylvania,
where it had its origin, it has been a most
successful scheme.
The university authorities decided that
student medicos should not study
anatomy and physiology with books and
cadavers only; they should start in right
from the jump with living, complaining
human beings. Hence the new course. At
first many of the students thought it
unnecessary—mere social work—but
eventually more than half of them signed
up for it.
The scheme assigns each student to a
family (with the family’s agreement), and
it becomes his family for the duration
of his medical course. He does not
attempt to treat the family. He is merely
a doctor-in-training. He visits the family
and studies it and advises it, and often
runs into such excitement as an
emergency operation, an accident or even
a good old family fight.
The course was planned so that
students could learn that patients are
people—and not forget it beneath the
avalanche of science and theory that is
poured over them during their medical
training. Students learning about disease
could see how disease affected family
life, and how family life affected disease.
They could learn the importance of keep-
ing people well rather than making sick
people better.
It was found that the scheme gave
students an early chance to realise what
they were good at and what interested
them most. They began to shoulder
responsibility, to think of other people
as well as themselves. They learned that
there are times when a doctor must say
“I don’t know.”
The idea has since been used as a basis
for similar schemes in other American
universities, and it seems one that could
be adapted by Australian authorities
also. If nothing else, it would do
a great deal to lessen the attitude of
omniscience and superiority that clings
to most newly-graduated medicos, and
from which many of them never seem to
escape.— Mac (N.S.W.),
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 211
Across.
I—Gippsland1—Gippsland boy gives evidence of
a transaction. (4, 2,4)
s—Egg5—Egg on an idol around a little
publicity on leave. (4)
9 Evil name of a wilderness reached
by the Israelites on the flight from
Egypt. (3)
10 — Game between Drobny and Cer-
nik, Mimi and Rudolph, Musetta,
Marcel and suchlike. (8, 3)
12— Forte isn’t to pass out in drip-
ping surroundings for it. (5)
13 — Metal house of entertainment in
London. (9)
14— The Norwegian upper house
makes an ex-convict object. (8)
16—Nigger disturbed Carrots for a
description of some pop mettle.
(6)
19 —Mrs. Nanki Poo gives a cry of
relish. (3-3)
21—Nips? (8)
24 Dance for the out-of-date piper’s
appearance. (9)
25 Tyre repair backing a trotter.
(5)
26 IVlonoc{jromatic ewe associates
with a comedian named Don and
our Edward. (II)
27 Behold you and Costello! (3)
28— Bad eggs go to these barkers for
feet andirons. (4)
29 -Heavily incorporated billiard
shot and a ringer that Is 300.
(3-7)
Down.
1— Don’t make an incomplete job
of the assault in a shy manner.
(9)
2 Nothing up with his Majesty
when being brought together.
V (7)
3 The whole of a heavenly path,
or only a part. (5)
4 Thrash an English cathedral city
in a hobbling manner. (6)
6 Expelling a duck you bite. (7)
7 The corporation on the district
attorney is a known fact. (5)
8— Shrub thanks mother over the
hazard. (8)
11—Cherishing csperance when the
swine swallows haberdashery. (6)
15 —Hope’s out in the roof. (5-3)
17 — I am thus in ruin to bustle about
what American trysters do not
care to be given. (3-6)
18 — Put King George and a seaman
off the ship annexation. (4-4)
20—Mother is his Majesty when put-
ting on a false face. (7)
22 Pop the bull-fiddles for Pope. (7)
23 — Kipling character to ring a num-
ber for a dressing-gown. (6)
24 Enclosure to beat Ezra for money
weight. (5)
25 — Drive the cycle sound of bells
around the coppers. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 210


7 / /
a n
gdf
BATTERIES
REIGN
m
.;f£:;;>V,Tff^*
gm
gm
,v
W&
p£c
■<f
‘
ST
mk&
■ '■-.• '. '.•y-' --—'>V !■>' _ •*££< *. y ~
\ m.
m
£:£
s&'Si|ip
m
PSi-
M
■m.
:>5:-
;»SwCmW*A^ ,i ?r *r-a* r » •;•:•;•:?. .»>:•:•?■
K
S&SB
- ■
,
a
v':'. :;
H
is
■
■J
■
ms
v.-.v
; ; :.-v
ffiSSgg
V
ii
S '■ s?i
: £ :•
>
r- :'
it*
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR. TRUCK, TRACTOR,
RADIO. LAUNCH.
‘ HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Qoulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32*34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Western Australia:
NICHOLSONS, LIMITED,
Barrack Street, Perth; 3 Adelaide Street,
Fremantle; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON;
TASMANIAN RUBBER CO., LTD., HOBART.
Manufactured by
New Zealand:
BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS, LTD*
436 Broadway, Newmarket, AUCKLAND, S.E.I.
New Caledonia:
AGENCE ALMA, NOUMEA.
Fiji:
TITCOMB & LEE. SUVA.
ERG BATTERIES PTY. ( LTD.
156Goulbum Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MAG 188 (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: 86565, 84448
