

FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS
buy seppelts solero sherry
The Bulletin
NEW AUSTRALIAN LANGUAGE
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74-No. 3807
Wednesday, January 28, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
FRAMLINGHAM’S WALLS ARE STEEPED IN HISTORY
rr*HE auiet old market town of Framlingham, standing amid the water
T meadows of Suffolk near Aldeburgh, has a history that goes back tor
over a thousand years when the county was the Saxon kingdom ot
St Tradftiori asserts that the artificial mound upon which Framlingham
OstlV stands was once a Saxon stronghold. The castle, however, was built
donate the Norman Conquest in the eleventh century and
chief possessions of the Earls and Dukes of r 7 .0 entertained at the
successful Mary would have been conveniently near the east coast for rapid
escape across the Channel to Flanders. Framlingham is also associated with
Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey, the famous poet who was imprisoned in the
Tower of London on a charge of treason by Henry VIII and later beheaded
at the age of thirty on Tower Hill. His brother, Thomas Howard, Duke of
Norfolk, escaped the same fate seven years later only by the sudden death of
the king. Their memorials are to be seen in Framlingham Church.
The medieval walls of the Castle, illustrated here, rise from the artificial
mound which the Saxons fortified twelve centuries ago, and is today one of
the noblest ruins in England.


JLearn
at HOME
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
—— -CUT HERE AND MAIL ——
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(S.B. 263)..... Age......
The Red Page
THREE ABORIGINE BOOKS
Maybe as retribution for our having
practically wiped-out the black man, our
literature is being practically swamped
by writings about him. Among the
newest efforts is The First Australians,
by Ronald and Catherine Berndt (Ure
Smith Pty., Ltd.), a short introduction to
the study of the Australian aborigine all
over Australia, with chapters on his
religion, symbolism, law, trade, love-life,
etc. There are many carefully-selected
plates, and some fine reproductions in
photograph and drawing of aboriginal
art and design.
Next there is Aranda Boy, by Rex
Ingamells (Longmans), an aboriginal story
for children, about the upbringing of
little Gurra, of the Aranda tribe, his ex-
periences with cicadas, black cockatoos
and at corroborees, his hunting of
kangaroos, and his meeting with the
white man Dongbema (Don Byrne). Bad
whitemen persecute the Arandas, and in
retaliation young Gurra arranges a
satirical corroboree in which all the men
of his tribe, with whitened skins, beat
three blackmen. Famine adds to the
Arandas’ woes, but just as the tribe is
starving to death, and Gurra is dying
with a wounded leg, Don Byrne saves the
situation, and the rains come.
Both these books are examples of what
may be done with the materials avail-
able ; but Where Strange Paths Go Down,
by A. M. Duncan-Kemp (W. R. Smith
and Paterson), is a really rare and original
work. Mrs. Duncan-Kemp spent her
childhood on Mooraberrie, an old cattle-
station of some 360 square miles in “the
Comer —where south-west Queensland
and the northern section of South Aus-
tralia look at each other through the
rabbit-netting border-fence”; a district
she first chronicled in her book Our Sand-
hill Country.
As a child, Mrs. Duncan-Kemp tagged
along with black gins on their walk-
abouts ; and so came to know them, not
as inquiring scientists, or as sentimental
journalists, but as people who had to live
with them:
The Macks respected us— even adored us—
because we kept them in their place and
kept our own also.
It is on one of these walkabouts that
our author introduces the theme of the
book, the hunting of th» aboriginal
Nipper by members of his tribe. Nipper
was a first-class stockman, six-foot tall,
well-built, a chief’s son, who had come
down from the north, working on stations
until the feeling of local tribes, or the
apprehensions of managers, drove him
on his way again.
His presence hung like a cloud over
the district; and with great skill Mrs.
Duncan-Kemp hangs it over her book ;
what was a mystery to the white children
in the years 1908-18 remains a mystery
to the reader until the end of the book.
The chapters progress equably with
their descriptions of station-life, of
lagoons full of wildfowl, of sandstorms
that bury big mobs of cattle, kill an
aborigine’s horse and bury its rider past
anyone’s ability to find him, of aboriginal
scenes and aboriginal law and tradition.
There is the picture of the aborigine boy
on his way to make love with his “love-
churinga,” a stick carved with his totemic
sign which he whirls at the end of a
length of kangaroo-sinew:
Zer-zer it hums, now high, now low and
vibrant. There is something uncanny and
psychic about it all, for I have personal
knowledge’ of gins receiving the unspoken
message 96 miles distant, and another who
“heard” it 80 miles away.
There is the almost Chinese politeness
of the ceremony by which a young man,
meeting an unarmed old man, will give
the old man his boomerang, which may
have taken him two years to carve, in
order that the aged-one may have a
means of killing food. The old man then
wraps the boomerang in “sweet lerp-
encrusted coolibah-leaves” and leaves it
in a fork of a tree beside the hunter’s
tracks, so that the young man may return
before sunset and retrieve it as a sign of
the old man’s good-wishes.
There is the gin who is sent out by
night to avenge an injury done to her
own relations. This is a secret among
the women, who dress her with a com-
pleteness, at any rate, worthy of Schia-
parelli or Dior:
First the gin is rubbed all over with the
grease from a female kangaroo or emu, and
decorated with white down which is affixed
to her body with blood drawn from her
husband’s sister. Her hair is adorned with
fur and the tail-tips of a bandicoot or rat-
kangaroo, and on her feet she fastens light
sandals of crane-feathers stuck together
with human blood. In one hand she carries *
a nobby-headed stick called a thulla
(woman’s dub). In the right hand she
grasps a b'road-pointed staff about 20 inches
long. This is an ungakwilta or woman-
charm made by her husband or brother, and
“sung” specially for the occasion by a
female relative on her mother’s side.
There is more decorating and charm-
ing, to the end that the gin should steal
out by night and from behind her victim
throw the ungakwilta so that it will break
into magical pieces which enter the
victim’s body, causing great pain, or even
death. From these excursions, she re-
turns to her camp:
Female relatives light a small fire, and in
silence remove all decorations. The feather
shoes and the club are taken by the umbara
and carefully buried in some secret spot.
Returning to her humpy the gin tells her
husband that she has been hunting acacia-
seeds and grubs—and produces a handful
of fat grubs from her hair to allay sus-
picions.
There is a chapter on Boonamin, the
ceremony at which the young tribesman,
after ten years allowed for the reproduc-
tion of his kind, is taken a state further
in his initiation with certain drastic
measures of birth-control, used to counter
the possibility both of starvation and the
breaking-up of a tribe by any man’s
getting a family which will enable him
to start a tribe of his own; and there is
old Bogie’s, amazing public-address
system:
He walked to the peak on our left and
stood out just beyond a clump of needle-
bushes. Turning towards the north-west he
leaned slightly forward and with his hand
to his mouth spoke two sentences —vowel
sounds —very clearly and distinctly. The
key-word of every sentence was repeated
three times. He did not shout. He scarcely
raised his voice from its normal pitch
except at the last when he repeated the first
vowel-call and the last two notes three times
in a tone varying in pitch from high to
low and then high and crisp. He seemed
to throw pvery word on the air, and the
sounds seemed to float over the flats clear
and distinct as though wafted by some in-
visible instrument.
After a pause the black listened intently,
and as we turned to go the answer came
back in a series of almost inaudible sound-
vibrations. It was a long answer, and Bogie
appeared satisfied.... Bogie had called to a
party, mere specks down on the flat be-
yond our lunch-camp, and their leader was
answering over a distance of a mile or more.
There is the black gin’s dog, the only
thing a black gin ever really owns;
generally a dingo pup that she has suckled
like her own baby -from infancy, that
never deserts her, and in her old age is
her best insurance against starvation.
At any turn in the track, or at the
end of some description of stockriding or
tribal rites we may come upon the tragic
figure of Nipper, or his pursuers, Joo-lup,
the medicine-man, the head of the Seven
Avengers. Slowly Nipper moves towards
the tribal “killing-ground,” while his
killers patiently await his arrival, since
only by being killed there can he hope
eventually to enter the happy hunting-
grounds of his tribe, and only by killing
him there can the agents of tribal justice
avoid being considered murderers by
other tribes.
We are allowed to be present at the
making of the Death-Necklace for Nipper
which is awarded to only high-caste abo-
rigines when they are to be killed, and
at a tribal-ceremony of the tribes in which
Nipper was expelled, excommunicated,
stabbed and burned in absentia with a
pomp hardly inferior to that of the
medieval church or a regimental strip-
ping; and at the very last we are
acquainted with his crime and the stark
and dignified ritual of his execution.
It is an extraordinary book; so full of
the rich aboriginal way of life and know-
ledge that it is hard to believe that within
40 years most of it has vanished for ever.
But, Mrs. Duncan-Kemp says in her pre-
face: —
Nearly all the blacks, as tribes, have gone.
And with them has gone all the wonderful
plant-lore (which to the tribal aborigine
meant folk-lore too, for one was so en-
twined with the other that it was impossible
to say where one ended and the other
began) so valuable to the white people living
out there.
"Ralph Rashleigh"
“Speculations” following the assump-
tion by M. H. Ellis (B. 7/l/’53) that
Green way may have written Ralph Rash-
leigh are patently confuted by his own
argument.
First there is his presumption that “The
Spectre” (1892) was referring to Green-
way when reporting that Alexander
Burnett “while engaged as Government
clerk of works [r/c] made the acquaint-
ance of a most eccentric genius who
came to write the present, as well as
many other, manuscripts.”
Now in my last article (B. 24/12/’52)
I specifically asked Mr. Ellis why he did
not pay attention to pages xl to xlii
of my Introduction to Ralph Rashleigh.
The letter quoted on page xli estab-
lishes that Burnett was not engaged as
described until January, 1838.
Secondly, there comes Mr. Ellis’s tardy
recollection that “Death, greatest of all
thieves, 5t01e.... Green way himself in
September, 1837,” or, in plain terms, that
Greenway died in September, 1837.
Thus more than three months elapsed
between Greenway’s burial and Burnett’s
beginning those activities in the course of
which he was to make the acquaintance
of the “eccentric genius” who came to
write Ralph Rashleigh, and who later
“bequeathed it to him when dying.”
It is thus incontrovertible that Green-
way was not that particular “eccentric
genius,” and, accordingly, Mr. Ellis’s
presumption that “The Spectre” was re-
ferring to him becomes reduced to
absurdity.
The consequent logical conclusion is
that there is no substance whatever in
the speculation that Greenway might have
written Ralph Rashleigh.
We now come to Mr. Ellis’s factual
submissions, which are found on examina-
tion to favor Tucker,
We read in Mr Ellis’s article (B.
7/1/’53) that the “author in grati-
tude for a good turn bequeathed
the manuscript to Alexander Burnett.”
Burnett was foreman of works in
1838-41 under the Government Archi-
tect. “Tucker,” Mr. Ellis admits,
“was employed in the Government
Architect’s Department in 1838-39.”
“The manuscript,” agrees Mr. Ellis, “is
in Tucker’s handwriting.” And the water-
mark of the paper used for the manu-
script is 1840.
Since Greenway was buried in 1837,
these submissions produce the inescapable
corroborative conclusion that James
Tucker was the “eccentric genius” who
came to write Ralph Rashleigh and from
whom Burnett received the manuscript,
obviously later than 1840.
COLIN RODERICK.
A Proust Discovery
The literary sensation of 1952 in Paris
has been the publication of a hitherto
unknown and entirely unexpected novel
by Marcel Proust.
When just two years ago a young post-
graduate student lecturer in French
literature sought his aid in connection
with a projected thesis on the work of
Marcel Proust, Andre Maurois introduced
him to Madame Gerard Mante-Proust,
the novelist’s niece who has had the
custody of all his papers. At Maurois’s
suggestion she made available to the
lucky young man —Bernard de Fallois —
the whole contents of a lumber-room.
Here, in some old packing-cases, he dis-
covered the scattered and torn leaves of
the manuscript of a novel of over 1000
pages, which has now been published
under the title which the author had
chosen tentatively— Jean Santeuil. There
was a clue to the existence of this early
novel in a letter written by Proust in
1896 which referred to a notebook of
“110 large-sized pages,” and which has
since been the subject of erroneous
speculation.
The book contains much of the
material later to be enlarged and more
fully developed in A la recherche du
temps perdu.
It is more naively biographical than A
la recherche. It introduces us to a sensi-
tive boy whose affection for his mother
amounts almost to a fixation, and
goes on to detail many of the incidents
of his childhood which reappear in
Du cote de chez Swann. The town of
Combray is prefigured in Etreuilles, and
many of the incidents of the life of this
town and its characters will be familiar
to readers of the later book. The hero’s
boyish love affair with Gilbert Swann has
its counterpart in meetings in the
Champs-Elysees with the girl Marie
Kossichef.
There is, however, one part of the hero’s
early life much more fully described in
Jean Santeuil, namely his early educa-
tion and school life, and this part of the
work is in Proust’s best style. At school
Jean Santeuil forms a close friendship
with Henri de Reveillon, whose family
introduces him into the life of high-
society, and here the story bears some
resemblance to the parts dealing with
the youthful Saint-Loup, but the grow-
ing-up of Jean Santeuil and his blossom-
ing into a society-man contain no hints
of the characters which later dominate
A la recherche du temps perdu. There
is no Charlus, no Morel, no Jupien, no
Albertine (although Santeuil has several
love affairs), and more especially there is
no Sodom and Gomorrah. It may be
that when this work was under way
Proust’s homosexual tendencies had not
so developed as to dominate his life
and his art
That Proust was always kind-hearted
and generous is abundantly attested by
the memoirs of his friends, but in spite
of this there are real bitterness and cruelty
in A la recherche. This is almost entirely
absent in Jean Santeuil. We meet a
younger, more sweet-tempered, more
kind-hearted Proust. When moral indig-
nation is aroused it is aroused by the
Dreyfus case or the Panama scandal and
not by trivial matters like the vulgarity
of Verdurin circle, or the snobbery of
the Faubourg Saint Germain. Though
there is still plenty' of humor, it has not
the astringency of A la recherche.
But in one thing the author is abund-
antly generous in both books: that acute
sensitivity to life, that awareness of
all the implications of the impact of
events on human beings and of human
beings on one another. Jean Santeuil
reveals in Proust’s most penetrating
manner the joys and the sorrows which
one’s family, one’s relations, one’s friends
and even strangers can bring to that
strange business which begins at the
cradle and ends only with the grave.
J.A.M.
Modern Poetry
At least one grain of profit this re-
viewer derived from James Devaney’s
Poetry in Our Time (Melbourne Uni-
versity Press) was the elucidation, or
apparent elucidation, of a stanza by Dylan
Thomas which Mr. Devaney, in spite of
having to hand an explanation, which he
does not quote, by William Empsdn, dis-
misses as incomprehensible: “I would
have said beforehand that Empson could
not elucidate this poem.... Of course he
does not explain or justify the poem.”
The stanza runs:
Never until the mankind making
Bird, beast and flower
Fathering and all humbling darkness
Tells with silence the. last light breaking
And the still hour <
Is come of the sea tumbling in harness
Now, the clue to half the mysteries
in Dylan Thomas’s poetry, as one has
noted before, is that most of his adjectives
are compound, hyphenated, and Thomas
invariably omits the hyphens. In the
stanza above, one such adjective is
“mankind-making”; the whole of the
second line as far as “Fathering” in the
third line makes another—“bird-beast-
and-flower-fathering” ; and a third adjec-
tive is “all-humbling.” All these adjec-
tives, quite straightforwardly once you
have hyphenated them, qualify the noun
“darkness”; and this darkness which
I makes mankind, fathers birds, beasts and
flowers and humbles all is, no doubt,
simply the dark earth we live on, seen as
a symbol of God.
The only other obscure phrase in the
stanza is “the sea tumbling in harness.”
It tumbles in harness, presumably, be-
cause it is made of “white horses” which
are still harnessed by the force of gravity.
The stanza should mean, therefore:
“Never until the silence of the earth, or
God coming in silence, reveals that the
last day has dawned and the sea is still” ;
or, to put it more briefly still, “Never
until the end of the world.” ,
One must agree that Dylan Thomas has
not been playing fair with Mr. Devaney:
his trick of leaving out his hyphens is
really quite indefensible. Further, one
may agree that, especially in his early
poems, which are also rather gruesomely
Freudian in contrast to his later lyrics
of the countryside, a harmful obscurity
is too prevalent in Thomas as in many
other modern writers; and one may add
that this hyphenated style, though refresh-
ing in its newness and not without some
flavor of true poetry, is really rather a
wordy and clumsy way of writing, lacking
the admirable directness of Mr. Devaney’s
own “Winter Westerlies,” and a long way
round to what Bums said so simply in:
Till a’ the seas gang dry, my dear,
And the rocks melt wi’ the sun.
But the point to be made here is that
the poem is not—with patience—finally
obscure.
Since Dylan Thomas is an extreme
modem, and extremely obscure among
{Red Page continued on page 35)


_ £ (
1 rn^r-
ft K|
pern**#
F-vUw
2L
i
■
i wsm
I
1
"“*3*
rs
I*3
ip
m
: 11
Cl
tr
J
m
tit
cj>
1
m
m£*>
"K
>
mm.
■;
SI
&
/■"
mmm
™BS
You *ll adore the fan of living
out o 9 doors when fjon own this
Modem Outdoor Furniture
Enjoy living the way the French do on the Riviera . . . live outdoors! There’s nothing as exciting
as eating and entertaining on a porch in the sun or shade! And Australia’s climate’s just perfect
for it. So are these exclusive pieces of Outdoor Furniture we ve had made especially for you
»n
ffc-'
mm
m
. ■%,■
/
<r.
o
//-
/
<-bs>
£6
■: ' I
«i||p
aji
c
(and your budget). Incidentally, why not use some of the
pieces indoors, in dining room and kitchen, the way the
Americans do ... a completely new and original idea I I
Top. Metal Garden Setting. It looks like wood, but the four chairs and
table are of hardy steel. The umbrella table is 32in. x 32in. Green, red, blue,
yellow or orange are the brilliant colours. £l5/17/10. Yes, you can
buy them separately! Table, £5/12/10; Chairs, £2/11/3 each.
Far Left. Wrought Iron Suite. You’ve seen it in the shiny American magazines.
Now here it is for you! The round table has im. plate glass, 36in. diameter.
Bright plasticised duck cushions on chairs. Priced at £57/3/0.
Left.
Cocktail Table of wrought iron,
5-inch plate glass top. Spice for any
decorating scheme! 36 x 18 x 18 inches.
Priced as low as £l2/17/3.
Right.
Nest of Tables. Delightful
in any home. On a porch,
hallway, in a gay living room.
And that plate glass top’s ador-
ably easy to keep clean!
Priced as low as £l2/10/6.
Below Left.
Garden Chair. Lacquered
wood in an incredibly comfort'
able design . . . just right for
loungeing on a porch or in a
garden. Red, cream or white.
Priced as low as £6/16/0.
All goods on easy terms!
df
dfs
OUTDOOR FURNITURE ON OUR FOURTH FLOOR. PHONE H 2401. WATT, ORDERS TO KOV 2713, G.P.0., SYDNEY.


Puzzlement on Both Sides
NEW AUSTRALIAN
LANGUAGE
By STEPHEN KELEN
THE New Australian tries his best to
create a pleasant and sympathetic
atmosphere. The best way, he
thinks, to do it is to be very polite,
In the hustle and bustle of boarding a
tram he repeatedly calls out:
“I’m sorry, I’m so sorry! ”
He apologises with the consistency of
a bore, smiles timidly at people and
thinks he is a “social success.”
The native-born look at him with con-
tempt and often disgust. “What a slimy
character this foreigner is,” they think.
“He behaves like a Nip.”
Meanwhile the New Australian takes
the surly looks of others sitting in his
compartment as expressions of apprecia-
tion. He thinks he has given a lesson in
good manners to the Australians. In actual
fact, his continuously apologising for
his presence makes the others feel uncom-
fortable, so they conclude: “There must
be something wrong with us if this man
is so much worried about being here.” It
is taken as a slight.
From my own experience as one of
them (once), I would say to all New
Australians: Don’t be sorry for where
you happen to be, and what you are
doing. Think of yourself as simply an
equal with other citizens, and never think
that overpoliteness will give you the
slightest advantage.
* *
It was in Bombay that I first came
upon that misleading, treacherous expres-
si°n: I m afraid....
I was trying to sell an article to an
editor (a typical Englishman) of the
“Illustrated Weekly. He read! the pages
carefully, with great interest, then turned
to me > and with sincere regret in his voice
he sai( i: I am afraid this is not quite the
thing we would like to see from you.
This, at first, did not discourage me at
all. As I saw it, there was still a good
chance to induce him to use the article,
Did he not say that he was afraid to
refuse my piece of writing? If he simply
rejected the article, there could be no
reason in the world why he should have
been frightened of doing so. Actually, I
should be the one who was afraid, not
he!
“Do you want me to rewrite the
article?” I asked, thinking that this would
give him an opportunity to make neces-
sary suggestions.
“I’m afraid not,” he said in an
embarrassed tone, obviously hurt because
he thought I was trying to force the
issue.
Now it started to dawn on me that his
was a flat refusal.
“But,” I asked, just to make sure, “you
said you’re afraid . . . why should you be
afraid of refusing the article? It is I
who should be afraid that you might, and
indeed I was, sir.”
“I’m afraid,” the exasperated editor
exclaimed, “I don’t really know what
you’re talking about.”
No other language (at least to my
knowledge) expresses a refusal in a more
polite and circuitous, I would say in
almost an Oriental, manner than English.
Instead of a flat, and rough, “No,” there
is actual commiseration and worry with
the rejected person. But don’t let that
fool you. New Australian! A “No” is a
“No,” no matter how it ’is said, in any
man’s language.
♦+♦ ♦♦♦ *x*
You being a New Australian, Aus-
tralians usually speak to you slowly, in
a sort of baby-talk. Most of the time this
naturally angers you. Especially so when
you feel that your English has improved
at least enough so that people don’t have
to talk to you as if you were an idiot.
“This moron,” you think fumingly,
“thinks that I am a half-wit, just because
I wasn’t born here, and English is not
my mother-tongue. I wonder how would
he talk my language after only a year of
study?”
Yet the Australian does not mean
insult; as a matter of fact, he tries to
display a great deal of consideration.
Unwittingly perhaps, he follows an admir-
able Malayan habit of “talking down” to
the less educated (you may have been a
university professor at home, but so far
as English is concerned you are far behind
the average Aussie). In Borneo I found
that there is a “high” and “low” Malayan.
The better-educated speak down to the
“simple” people, because they do not
want to make them feel ashamed of their
linguistical shortcomings, and, also, it
creates a clearer conversational atmos-
phere. Besides, would the New Aus-
tralian not speak to the Britisher in the
same painstaking, slow tone, pronouncing
clearly every word, if spoken to in his
own original tongue?
* t* ❖
Australian men hate it; women, as a
rule, love it —the New Accent.
The New Accent colors, mutilates, up-
lifts and gives amazing intonations to the
English language. The language is being
sing-songed, murmured, bassed, broken
into pieces—never since its formative
period some centuries ago has it under-
gone more changes. True enough, this
transformation only occurs in the New
Australian sphere; nevertheless it is a
new language, which is gaining
momentum, and —who knows? —one day
it may even infiltrate the solid phalanx of
the original tongue.
A dinkum Aussie feels rather humiliated
and enraged when he is forced to listen
to a hardly intelligible mumble, because
it throws him off his natural balance. He
has to make an extra effort to understand
and, more often than not, to interpret.
In his mind this creates a problem which
must be solved, unless he retreats and
acknowledges defeat, which is not part
of his make-up. To make matters worse,
the New Australian might be his boss or
a man who works above him and has
superior knowledge, yet is inferior in
language.
Just as the “King’s English,” because
of its perfection, was resented, so is the
primitive New Australian, because,
according to some Australians, it lowers
the “thinking standard.” But how dif-
ferent it is with the women! They simply
adore listening to the New Accent, which,
to say the least, arouses in them a
motherly instinct. “Here’s a man,” they
think, “who talks like a babe. Isn’t that
cute?”
There are, too, many other reasons.
Women all the world over love explain-
ing, teaching,, being helpful, feeling that
man depends on them, and the New Aus-
tralian, at least in the linguistical sphere,
provides unlimited opportunities for them.
Also, the New Accent is surrounded by
the romantic aura of a Charles Boyer, a
Casanova; it fires the imagination, con-
jures pictures of exotic lands, dashing
hidalgos, barons and cavaliers, gallant
gestures, which lifts them put from the
humdrum existence of everyday life.
Strangely enough—or is it simply
motivated by jealousy?—the women dis-
like the accent of their newly-arrived
counterparts. Often they severely criticise
it. And their menfolk take the same
attitude —in reverse! Over a couple of
beers some of my genuine Australian
friends often praise the way the “foreign
girls” talk. They loathe the unintelligible
mumble of the men.
❖ ❖
Back in 1941 things looked pretty bad
here in Australia for the newcomer. The
Empire at war, Australians suffered from
an acute “anti-foreign phobia.”
My own Australian friends stood by
me staunchly, but to those who did not
know me, still out of uniform, I was a
potential spy, a “dago,” and “reffo,” and
at the best —an alien.
I had a thick accent, and spoke a pretty
broken English in those days, which did
not help matters very much. Slowly I
started to develop a persecution complex,
and was seriously thinking of migrating
somewhere else. More often than not I
wanted to get away from people, to be on
my own. One Sunday afternoon I was
sitting on a bench in Hyde Park when a
little girl came along. She looked at me,
and burst out laughing.
“What is so funny?” I asked her,
suspecting that even a child might be
inclined to play some sort of a cruel joke
on a “foreigner.”
“You,” the little girl answered.
“Me? Why do you say so?”
“Because you are sitting on a bench
reserved for ladies, silly!”
How relieved I felt!
“Is it so funny to sit on a bench re-
served for ladies?” I continued our
conversation in a more cheerful manner.
“Of course it is, silly,” the little girl
lectured me. “Wait till the policeman
comes and makes you get up.”
“I am not afraid of policemen. But
maybe you are right. O.K. I sit on
grass.”
“Yes, that’s better. What’s your
name?”
“Stephen.”
“Do you often come here, Uncle
Steve?”
“No . . . not often.”
“Pat, come here . . . we’re going!” the
little girl’s mother called, eyeing me with
suspicion.
“All right, mother —I’m coming,” Pat,
as a well-brought-up little girl, promptly
answered. Then she turned to me and
“Home to Mother”
by A. Reynolds
A New Guinea typist spends her leave
with her mother in Sydney, a war-
widow trying to keep up the gaiety
of her youth against a background
on which Reynolds is one of the few
literary experts.
In Next Week’s Bulletin story batch.
said: “Cheerio, Uncle Steve. I hope to
see you again. We often come here.”
From that day on, whenever I could I
went to Hyde Park and spoke to little Pat.
If I felt hurt or had some trouble, the
little girl could always cheer me up,
because she spoke to me in an
unrestrained, natural way. She never
noticed my accent, or foreign origin. To
her I was just another adult living in
Sydney, living in Australia.
Little Pat, and many other children
whose friendship I sought from then on,
showed me that basically I was no dif-
ferent from others —they accepted me
for what I was worth.
Small, insignificant incident you say?
To me it was a most important beginning
towards getting a firmer foothold on
Australian soil.
Clarence River Callers
[Alex. McFarlane, who recalls these brief
personal glimpses, was born in the same
year as one of the callers, his old friend
the late E. J. Brady.
Regarding his mention of the barque
Grecian Bend, fondly remembered by
Friends,Old Sydney’’ as often “pimticaiiy'
boarded by himself and boyhood mates
whenever she hove-to in Balmain {Sydney)
waters getting on for 70 years ago, Mr.
Tyrrell says he had, till now, never heard
or read of her since.
Also mentioned. Dr. Scot Skirving is,
of course, theG.O.M. of Sydney s medical
profession. His years go back an even
greater span. After training in the old
H.M.S. Conway at Liverpool, with Mer-
chant Service to follow and a visit to Aus-
tralia in this capacity, he had already
changed to the medical profession when
he settled in Sydney in 1883, and had
already written books before this present
century started I One of the very first
copies of Mr. Tyrrell s book from the
Angus and Robertson press went out at
once to Dr. Scot Skirving, and a day or
two later the G.O.M. {now in his nineties)
paid a personal visit to Tyrrells’ to yarn
The others mentioned for their Clarence
River (N.S.W.) links—Louis Becke, Henry
Kendall, Brady and Victor Daley—also
figure in the book along with scores of
other picturesque characters .]
Al ~ £ , . T rji T 1
Alex. McFarlane to James Tyrrell:
Ive read Old Books. Old Friends
Old Sydney and would like to tell
you that I got a kick out of every
page, so many incidents and people
it brought to mind.
Perhaps its best if I tell you Im
a native of the Clarence River ; I
from their different loading-berths.
likely withTcargo" of S, discharge
and load a cargo of piles and squared
timber for New Zealand ; such was
her cargo somewhere about 1892.
She was towed to sea and we heard
of her putting into Newcastle in a
leaking condition. There, after re-
pairs, departure was made, and she
was never heard of again. Included
in her crew were three Grafton
youths, William Rush (son of
Michael the noted rower), Chas.
Greenaway and Sullivan. Captain
Sterling was master.
We were on one of our regular
passenger-runs from Grafton to
Chatsworth and a man and two boys
were asking questions about the river
as I steered the packet along. An
excited deckhand rushed up to tell
me that a man had taken a fit. The
man and boys followed me to where
passengers were crowded round the
struggling man on the deck, some of
them offering suggestions what was
to be done: “Give him a glass of
spirits,” etc. The man with the boys
stepped forward, saying “I’m a medi-
cal man. Stand clear of the man.”
So saying, he placed a rope fender
under his head and warned no one to
interfere. The medical man was Dr.
Scot skirving, the two boys his sons.
, , „
In my young days we would go to
bathe at Becke’s scrub, sans every-
thing Later j rea d Louis’s By Reef
and Palm stories and others by him
in THE BULLETIN. Incidentally, iVC
been reading THE BULLETIN since
. nnl . 1000
du * . __ Tyr ~.
Before that time Henry Kendall
bad come to Grafton, where he be-
came asso ciated with Lionel Michael,
. . . , jj
a solicitor. Michael disappeared and
his body was recovered floating in the
r j ver Lines of poetry found on the
nnintpH tn suicide His head-
corpse pointed to SUlClCie. nis neaa
stone, in the Church of England por-
tion of the Grafton cemetery, was
j - at an ang j e w hen last I saw it.
IQOO T Tf I
Round about 1900 I m . .
Brady in Grafton. He was on Ills
caravan trek north, which concluded
Townsville. A friendship de-
veloped, and on his way he posted to
me his book The Ways of Many
Waters the first page filled with lines
recallin ’ g outings on the river, and
6 . ... ttTJ
brought to a close with Here
scri b* th the author> E j. B rady,
Queenslandj 1900 .” Later he re-
turned to Grafton and conducted the
newspa p er “Grip,” and I have plea-
gant recol i ect i o ns of how we set out
f rom Grafton with a buggy and a pair
of horses and made camp in the
Dorr j go scru b
„ Victor Daley came to Grafton on
old town had n ° att ™ ct J° n .j° r hi . m ‘
I visited Brady and family twice
at Mallacoota, and recall in 1918 h
was busy on Australia Unlimited.
Everything was good. The payments
from George Robertson, Melbourne,
were coming along, but were also
g°i n g out m tbe purchase of all sor s
°f gadgets and implements and he
setting-out of the extensive orchard,
Mallacoota has much to recommend
it, but to a man of Brady s tempera-
ment it was not a money-making
proposition.
Brady claimed that one of the
many advantages of living at Malla-
coota was that the nearest policeman
was 60 miles away. Therefore, he
could shoot a duck or pigeon without
being asked questions,
Brady and I claimed the same
m onth of birth: August, 1869. In
a pC em he wrote concerning an inci-
dent a t Yamba in which I figured, he
concludes:
We . u wet our clay what time of day
Breaks o’er the Land of Wonder,
And we’ll converse o’ Bards and Verse
And sh ‘P s and seas ° ut Yon er-
He revised the original for publica-
tion in The Bulletin.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 28, 1953
Vol. 74 — No. 3807
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
n^'pS 1 5971 George Street ’ s ydney; Box 2521;
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathans Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
A.L.P. "POLICY"
In a week in which Canberra announced that seven
leading groups of manufacturers had launched schemes
tor expansion involving the investment of £2OO million,
T® 1 1 5 iennial Labor Conference, which , met in
Adelaide, accused the Menzies Government of plan-
ning tor a pool of unemployment. This is about as
wicked and irresponsible a charge as could be made in
me circumstances.
The whole tone of the conference mirrored the
conditions of “Labor” and its policy. The spectacle
ot a party (whose leader rose up as the champion of
the right of the Communist party to free speech and a
legal right to exist and act as the agent of Moscow)
banning an anti-Communist paper would be perhaps
logical if Labor did not profess itself opposed to
all bans and in favor of free speech. But it is obvious
that, as in Russia, its principles of liberty apply only
in its own yard. Its traditional ‘black” ban is arbitrary
and ruthless.
On the major issues it would be interesting to hear
what took place in the debates. But again there is
the normal inconsistency between precept and practice.
“Labor’s” own conferences are held behind barred
doors, and the public hears only the scraps which it
is deemed safe to allow to escape after having been
carefully pruned to make them safe political pabulum.
The conference refused to discuss two motions by
the “moderate” N. S. Wales executive favoring
industrial-group policy, and which supported giving
permanent and more specific form to the conduct of
ballots for union offices by an Arbitration Court
official. That would have opened up the whole
industrial-group issue to debate, and the conference
was afraid to debate it.
It condemned the policy of the Menzies Govern-
ment which “resulted in great unemployment and
general lack of confidence in the community” without
saying anything about the lack of confidence created
by Messrs. Cahill, Sheahan and Clive Evatt, not to
mention Mr. Gair and his not-so-merry men of the
nqrth. It uttered specifically enough its wicked and
obviously false charge that it viewed the Common-
wealth Government’s policy as “designed to create a
pool of unemployment with the object of destroying
living standards.” It passed a clear-enough resolution
to provide for strong representations to the Common-
wealth to find money for public works so as “to
provide work for the unemployed.” But when it came
to the detail of its own long-term policy it was reticent.
Its chief theorists were no doubt eager to discuss fully
the socialisation policy put forward, but certainly not
publicised, by N. S. Wales to abolish the Loan Council,
create a national credit council on lines invented by
Mr. J. S. Garden a couple of decades ago and hock
the annual value of production to pay the debts of
bankrupt State railways and provide State “Labor”
juntas with political bribe-and-squander money; but
they had not the courage to bring the question out in
the open.
The extreme-Leftist S. Australian branch brought
forward a resolution;
That the AX.P. warn private enterprise that on
its return to office it will pursue its Socialist policy
and resume control of those means of production,
distribution and exchange sabotaged by the Menzies
Government.
The agenda committee hastily sabotaged this con-
fession of purpose as being “already covered by the
party’s Socialist objective.” The conference supported
the censorship.
That incident told electors all they should need to
know of “Labor’s” intentions. There has been no
announcement of any debate on bank-nationalisation.
There is a Senate poll impending, and it was
much better to issue assurances that in the
“Labor” millennium there would be further lavish
free gifts irrespective of the taxpayers’ ability to pay
and the Government’s ability to borrow —free medicine
and medical attention on the Chifley scale, “work for
all” irrespective of whether there is anything to work
on, prices reduced by regulation irrespective of the
cost of labor, materials and administration—N. S.
Wales housewives pay nearly Is. a dozen on eggs
just to pay the cost of the Egg Board. “Labor” child-
endowment is to extend up to 18 years—an age at
which the average child can earn about £8 a week.
Dr. Evatt, in the face of the assurances given of
adherence to the socialisation objective, trumpeted in
wild indignation against the “lie that businesses, farms
and homes would be nationalised”-—which they would
be through the nationalisation of banking if the party
WCR EDifrA'
mm
/m%
/of 6 !
'o/ £
to/ T
THE "LABOR" PLATFORM
could achieve it. Farms are almost socialised now.
No farmer in Australia owns anything of value which
he produces, at least in “Labor”-run States. He cannot
sell his own potatoes or eggs without a risk of jail
or fine. And of course there was in the Doctor’s speech
a forecast of the gathering of industrial powers to the
Commonwealth, and a tribute to secondary industry
“which it would be the duty of ‘Labor’ to protect and
assist in carrying out its employment policy” ; presum-
ably at the further expense of the primary industries
and calculated to create the . greatest possible number
of union-controlled urban industrial seats.
It is no wonder that there was an air of unreality
about the whole conference. Nothing was allowed to
escape from the meeting-room, except through the
cracks, which was not calculated to help election
prospects. “Labor” is up for sale. Its policy is not
one for Australia but for pressure-groups and loafers.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Treatt's Opportunity
For the State elections in N.S.W. there
is all the material for a damning indict-
ment of “Labor’s” 11 years’ record in
office. Much water has run under the
bridge since Ashfield, and the elec-
tors should by now be sufficiently
awake to ask themselves why, if “Labor”
has all the proprietary rights in political
wisdom and administrative capacity, it
can show nothing better than the appal-
ling mess into which, after 11 consecutive
years of office, it has driven the most
populous State of the Commonwealth;
why 60 per cent, of the recent fall in em-
ployment occurred in this “Labor” pre-
serve ; why costs of living are constantly
higher in N.S.W. than in any other State ;
why, although N.S.W. has had the lion’s
share of revenue and loan moneys, its
record in high transport costs, losses in
business undertakings, performances in
housing, soldier-settlement and educa-
tion are all worse, and in most instances
shamefully worse, than those in every
other State.
In no State does the farmer strive
against more strangling costs or more con-
temptuous Government treatment.
N.S.W. dairymen were, during the life of
the late Parliament, threatened by this
“Labor” Government with confiscation
of their farms unless they agreed to pro-
duce 4s. butter for 2s. Bd. The larger
landholders have been so shamefully
robbed of fair prices for land compul-
sorily resumed for soldier-settlement that
the Commonwealth Government had to
legislate for just compensation in N.S.W.
as a special case. The charges for rail-
carriage of a ton of wheat over 100 miles
is 80s. in N.S.W. against 255. in Victoria,
and for superphosphate 235. against
10s. 4d. in Victoria and 15s. 6d. in S.A.
And those other States have to import
N.S.W. coal.
Under “Labor” the N.S.W. Govern-
ment Housing Commission was last heard
of as losing money at the rate of £210,000
a year, although receiving over £1 million
annually in rents. Housing difficulties
have been severe everywhere, but
although the other five States last year
produced an average of 95 per 10,000
population, Mr. Cahill’s State, with most
people, most resources, most demand,
produced only 62 per 10,000.
The sub-standard loaf of bread costs
Is. and more, yet Mr. Bruxner says that
if the farmers gave their wheat to the
consumer the cost of the loaf would still
be more than Bd. Why does the citizen
pay an unnecessary excess-price for milk?
Why has he no change left of a quid in
fares for his family to the beach at week-
ends? Why must prices still be “fixed”
when every time the Cahills lift price-con-
trols prices fall? Why are trams, buses
and trains daily packed worse than stock-
trucks at fares so high that they can
hardly go higher, yet still losing millions
of pounds a year in running-costs? Why
is there so little to show for it when this
Government has had more taxation
revenue and loan money than any other
in history—in loan money alone £lOO
million in the past two years and nearly
twice that amount in the past four years?
The following are some of the
answers already published in Parliament.
In five years the “Labor” Government
has accumulated admitted transport losses
of £10.6 million, including over £6 mil-
lion in the past two years. This in spite
of revenue subsidies (concealing deficits)
amounting to over £2l million since
1947-48 and another £lB million for
special fare and freight concessions. The
Transport Minister explains that it costs
his department 265. to earn every 20s. of
revenue and flings up his hands. Mean-
while the McGirr-Cahills littered the
State with “initiated” public works,
foundation-stones and turned-sods, in-
volving the wasteful carting-about of
materials and working hands for jobs that
were merely marking time for wages.
Here are some —and only some—
examples during the past six years:
r— 1 Cost in £ooos ,
To To
Original Date. Finish.
Keepit Dam .. .. 1,340 2,870 4,100
Glenbawn Dam .. 1,500 2,804 6,000
Burrendong Dam .. 2,000 2,308 5,900
Menindie Lakes .. 2,300 623 3,100
Three other dams .. 13,700 no anything
figures you like
L. Macquarie rlway 23,250 ditto ditto
E. Suburbs railway.. 44,000 1,665 ditto
VV, r’lway elec’flcat’n 17,750 500 abandoned
and
Hospital scheme . . 20,000 6,848 25,000
Branxton Mu swell-
brook railway
duplication .. .. 1,333 started and aban-
doned
35 Darling River
dams 450 115 one finished
The Electricity Commission spent £l5
million last year and proposes to spend
another £13.5 million this year, part of
it in financing a “blackouts council.”
The outstanding features of Pyrmont
power-station and the Quay railway-
station as Government jobs have been
their adjacency to a string of pubs and
the prospect of their being made to last a
lifetime for all on the payroll. The Gov-
ernment tile-works at Blacktown cost
nearly a million, were a complete failure,
and were then handed over to private
contractors to pull into shape if they
could.
The cost of all this is the plaster that
this “Labor” mob which calls itself a
Government have laid upon the com-
munity. If electors like it and want
more of the sort, they have only to vote
for it.
Peace Talks End
The failure of the Korean “peace talks”
closes one of the strangest episodes in war
—year-long negotiations, hopeless from
the start, maintained by the enemy only
for the propaganda opportunities they
offered. Nobody except the United
Nations, with all its muddle and an
enemy in its councils (with power of veto
over most of its vital decisions), would
have tolerated such a situation. The
position is probably healthier now it is
all over and the world has come back to
realities.
It will soon be made clear whether
the Soviet Union and its Chinese satel-
lites are prepared to accept the present
position—l,ooo,ooo Communist troops
tied up with huge resources ostensibly for
the defence of Korea and faced with
about half the number on the United
Nations side, most of them from the
United States and armed from United
States resources.
The very loss of face in failure to oust
this force so inferior in numbers seems
to dictate to an Oriental that a drastic
effort should be made to end the dead-
lock ; but it is probably clear to Moscow
that nothing can be done without pre-
cipitating operations far larger than any
so far seen in Korea.
Changes such as those coming about
in the U.S.S.R. and in Communist struc-
ture and leadership everywhere are of the
type which usually precedes major action
with the Russians, and the attacks on the
Jews are of special significance. They
firstly may be dictated by a preliminary
to the capture of the Arab-bloc countries
and the solidifying of Moslem support
inside the U.S.S.R.—which itself has
40,000,000 Mohammedan subjects. But
an equal or greater consideration might
be preparation for wider —perhaps world-
wide —hostilities.
Basic Wage Halted
Continued ranting by Dr. Evatt and
other calamity-howlers at the A.L.P. con-
ference about unemployment, depression
and lack of business confidence, all the
fault of the “malicious Menzies Govern-
ment,” is becoming plain silly. The pub-
lic’s Christmas spending boom was a
record, and with the passing of the holi-
day season, motor-cars, textiles, retail-
stores are all reporting recovery in de-
mand and employment.
The threat to employment in the motor
industries now comes from State “Labor”
Governments in N.S.W. and Victoria,
which are regulating road-hauliers out of
business.
These “Labor” sob-stuff propagandists
have not a word to say at the virtual
halting of the cost-spiral, as registered by
the basic-wage for the second consecu-
tive quarter. The truth is that the Com -
monwealth Government’s anti-inflation
measures have demonstrably checked a
grave economic sickness, first incurred
under the Cbifley-Evatt Governments and
aggravated during the Menzies Govern-
ment’s first IS months of office —till mid-
-195I—by1—by “Labor’s” obstruction of all
Government economic measures by
means of its pre-election rigged majority
in the Senate.
As soon as the Menzies Government
attained control of both Houses of Par-
liament after the double-dissolution of
1951 —for granting which “Labor” has
never forgiven its own appointee as
Governor-General —the Commonwealth
Treasurer brought down his budgetary
measures to correct desperate shortages
of essential goods and soaring prices for
those available. “Labor” assailed this
Budget as a “horror.” But it saved the
day—though some interests, especially
“Labor’s” nursery of indolent “workers,”
had to get hurt —and the second (last
year’s) Budget, which lifted some of the
pressure, marked a distinct improvement
in conditions. The stabilising of wage-
costs is witness of the fact. After the
second quarter’s registration of it, the
“Labor” statement that wages still lag
behind prices is palpably untrue. In-
deed, the worst rises in costs since
1949 followed the specific boosting
of wages on the occasions of the award
reducing the working week and the
“special increase” of £1 a week in the
basic-wage in 1950.
"A Soldier's Pack"
General Eisenhower has become Presi-
dent with the most solid endorsement
from all sections of the U.S. people ever
given any President since George Wash-
ington ; but he will have to govern
under the brake of a Congress in which
the Democrats have a power of obstruc-
tion which is already making itself
obvious in the careful scrutiny being
accorded to Cabinet appointments.
Nevertheless, Eisenhower starts with
advantages. He is the best-known and
best-liked man ever to go to White House.
He has no political past to hamper him,
no business associations. He is respected
entirely for his services to all nations at
a time when civilisation was threatened.
That he still believes it to be threatened
is shown by the first plank in his “Nine
Points for Peace,” which formed part
of his inauguration address:
Abhorring war as a chosen way to balk
the purposes of those who threaten us,
we hold it to be the first task of states-
manship to develop the strength that will
deter forces of aggression and promote
conditions of peace.
His programme is less blustering and
more forthright than President Truman’s,
and carries more conviction. And his
pithy “In the final choice, a soldier’s pack
is not so heavy a burden as a prisoner’s
chains” should register even in countries
as far away as Australia.
Our Hidden History
In the middle of all the noise about
historical literary discoveries the Kodak
people walked into one of the most im-
portant pictorial finds ever made in Aus-
tralia. Hundreds of photographs taken
on the Turon and Gulgong goldfields
(N.S.W.) back in the ’seventies and vividly
illustrating not only the life of the field
but the types and the setting which were
to provide Lawson with his stories of
diggers at Home Rule and Canadian
Lead.
The photographer was Beaufroy Merlin,
who died young but who, backed
by B. O. Holtermann, the discoverer of
the world’s largest piece of gold (it
weighed over 75000 z. and was then worth
£12,000), subsequently undertook to make
a photographic record of the wealth and
progress of Australia, and lived long
enough to leave an invaluable collection.
The collection, after exhibition in the
larger centres, will be presented to the
nation, the discoverers making micro-film
copies for use at home and abroad.
Finding of the treasure is a long story
in itself. Suffice it to say that when the
Kodak men opened the “old boxes out
in the shed” at the Sydney home of a
descendant of Holtermann they could
hardly believe their eyes. They were
even more astonished when they came to
examine the hundreds of negatives and
found that Merlin, working with the
primative gear at his disposal over 80
years ago, had turned out work which
stands comparison with anything done
today.
The real value, however, is the
historical one. Not only life on the gold-
fields, but vast panoramas of Sydney,
Melbourne, Ballarat, pictures of now-
gone buildings and people, are in the
collection. A goldfields chemist-shop
window is almost full of trusses —which
shows the kind of toil the miner did.
You can read the proclamations pasted
on walls, study the female fashions of
the day, and be fascinated with the char-
acter in the faces of Australians of three
or four generations past. Holtermann
himself appears several times ; Lawson’s
parents could be in one or other of the
groups—perhaps Lawson himself as a
small boy is looking at a team bogged
in a Gulgong street.
This gain to our historical records,
discovered in time to be preserved, sup-
ports the theory that in “old boxes out
in sheds” all over Australia priceless
records lie. It is known that many have
been lost because of ignorance of their
value. Australia is now keenly conscious
of its history.
The Olympic Mess
The most thought-provoking aspect of
the Olympic Games mess in Melbourne
is that Australians are now so hopelessly
in the grip of politics—so broken-in to
the idea that nothing can be done unless
some one or several Governments has
a finger in the pie—that the staging of
an international athletic carnival seems
to scare them stiff.
It is obvious that fright—or apathy
—is behind most of the Olympic
trouble. The former Premier Mc-
Donald was frightened to commit the
State to a fair share in the cost; the
current Premier Cain is frightened to
buck his narrowminded party’s view that
money oughtn’t to be spent on athletes
while somebody hasn’t a house or some-
body else hasn’t a job ; the Carlton foot-
ball-ground was secured much against
the wishes of the local football club;
the Prime Minister (up to his ears in
important national work) had to drop
everything and rush to Melbourne with
a financial guarantee ; work had mean-
time stopped at Carlton Oval, and a
general uproar of dissident voices arose.
Sydney, the greatest city in the Com-
monwealth, far from realising that the
advent of the Games would mean almost
as much to it as to Melbourne, took
the parochial attitude which it somehow
seems to take in national matters, sneered
at Melbourne and talked largely about
being willing to stage the Games itself—
though its one cinder-track athletic field
would make an American college laugh.
Above it all the sad fact remains that
Australians, who once had cause to be
proud of their resource and enterprise,
and still boast as though they still had
it, have been seduced by controls and
“welfare” and bureaucracy and reliance
on Governments into a sheep-like accept-
ance of delay and muddle and ineptitude.
No other country in the world, large
or small, given the chance Australia has
to put on a great sports carnival, which
would attract thousands of athletes,
writers, photographers, broadcasters and
sightseers from 'abroad, would put up
for more than 10 minutes with the muddle
now going on over the Games.
How "Labor" Wins
“D.J.K.”: Morality, political decency
and democratic principles once com-
manded respect in Queensland, but since
“Labor” has been “governing” things
have changed.
The Queensland election of April,
1950, clearly showed up the effect of
“Labor” electorate-jerrymandering. An
analysis of the voting shows the result
to have been:
P.c. of Total
Votes. Votes.
Liberal and Country
parties ~ .. 304,433 49.1
“Labor” ~ .. 291,254 46.9
All others .. .. 24,755 4.0
A stranger would expect from these
figures that the Liberal-Country parties
would have a small majority in the
Queensland Legislature ; but the loading
against them is so effective that “Labor”
is the Government with a majority of 11
seats!
Whereas the Liberal and Country
parties have to average 11,000 votes to
win each of their 31 seats, “Labor” won
its 42 seats with an average of 7182 votes.
The situation resembles the U.S.S.R.
when one takes into consideration these
additional facts: (1) “Labor” did not
contest three seats (Cunningham, Dar-
lington and Landsborough) where the
Opposition could fairly expect to have
an overall majority of 10,000 votes ; (2)
there were five seats where “Labor”
gained victory by fewer than 500 votes:
Rockhampton, 245; Carnarvon, 146;
Bulimba, 42 ; Windsor, 27; Nash, 25.
Of these, “Labor’s” victory in Nash and
Bulimba was challenged before an Elec-
tion Tribunal, resulting in a fresh election
in Bulimba after evidence of fraud was
substantiated.
While Queensland hasn’t as yet reached
the stage where Premier Gair gets 110
per cent, of the votes, as does Premier
Stalin, “Labor’s” discard of democratic
election principles is obvious. Perhaps,
given enough rope, Queensland “Labor”
will eventually hang itself; but whether
Queensland can afford to await the hang-
ing is another matter.
Cahill's "Policy**
The mud Of Cook’s River is living,
sparkling crystal beside Cahill’s general-
election policy-speech. Nothing more
banal has been heard over the radio since
broadcasting was invented.
Perhaps it was a demonstration of how
little the N.S.W. “Labor” leader feels
he need care at all about what he says.
The political sins of a Government which
has wasted the community’s productive
effort and capital resources, and which
o Continued on page 7)


knows no course but to demand a mort-
gage on the future and waste that, too,
meant nothing to him. The bankruptcy
of his State transport, the poverty of his
housing record, the dependence of his
Government on Federal financial sub-
sidy for every quid it wants to spend was
not even hinted at anywhere in Mr.
Cahill’s hour-long meandering among
barren platitudes and brain-defying non-
sense. His moaning about being deprived
of money to carry on State obligations
in comparison with the old pre-war days
utterly ignored the fact that the Com-
monwealth Government has taken into
the vast ambit of its own social services
all his widows’ pensions, child endow-
ment, most of his hospital subsidies, his
fair share of the Joint Coal Board’s costs
which his predecessor reneged on ; that
the Commonwealth Government has
found out of taxation even the bulk of
this money he has been spending on
loan-works which investors shied away
from; and taxation for these purposes,
says this political mountebank, must be
heavily reduced by Canberra if he
(Cahill) is to resume levying all the
income-tax he requires. Nothing less
than 10s. in the taxpayer’s £, where he
has been allowed hitherto only 55., will
suit him, he had previously said. But
he did not repeat it so clearly in this so-
call “policy-speech.”
His policy is to “foster” this, “encour-
age” that, “constantly review” the next
thing. He not only has no proposal to do,
as apart from having “a policy for,” any-
thing at all; he does not know what thing
anywhere he will do first. He dared not
descend into particulars of his Govern-
ment’s “solid performance” for which
he claims the electors’ thanks. But in
Pitt-street he could not raise a bob on
his record, or on his expectations of re-
deeming the miserable mess which is all
he and his party have to show after 11
years of office.
POLITICAL POINTS
On February 10 the N.S.W. Full Court
will be called upon to decide whether
there is a Royal Warrant for the use of
the Great Seal of N.S.W., and upon
questions relevant thereto. If it decides
there is not the question will arise as to
whether the Cahill Government is illegal
and the McGirr Government before it.
Any taxpayer, for instance, might get an
injunction restraining the holding of the
State elections. It was contended on
behalf of Abe Saffron (challenging the
appointment of Richardson, J., and the
validity of the Disorderly Houses Act,
1943) that the Royal Seal was supplied to
N.S.W. by the Royal Mint on the acces-
sion of George VI, but that no Royal
Warrant was ever obtained for it under
the authority of the Sovereign.
• o
The A.L.P. committee to help Evatt
draft a Socialist policy for the next elec-
tions consists of Calwell, who openly
disagrees op TV and on pre-election
tactics; Kennelly, who prophesied an
economic collapse in 1950; McKenna,
who prophesied it in 1951; Armstrong,
who advocated moving Australian factory
industry to S.-E. Asia in order to avoid
excessive costs in Australia; and Reece
(president), who agrees with Evatt about
wholesale inflation of credit in order to
defeat inflation. The one thing they are
all agreed about is the destruction of
private enterprise by the backdoor method
of Socialisation —price-controlling it out
of existence.
• ©
Commenting on what it calls the
“EvatLCalwell feud” Sydney “Herald”
holds that if it “comes to a showdown”
the “ ‘Labor’ party can more easily dis-
pense with Mr, Calwell than with Dr.
Evatt.” That remains to be seen ; what
is more to the point is that Australia
could easily dispense with both.
• ®
Neville Wills, a B.H.P. man, told the
Institute of Political Science in Canberra
that full production of steel was achieved
at Newcastle and Port Kembla in the last
quarter of 1952, and “We start 1953 with
the prospect of all the steel we need,” He
gave the credit to immigration, pointing
out that 23 p.c. of the Port Kembla labor
force were New Aussies, as were 17 p.c.
of the Newcastle force. To which it
can be added that the Menzies Govern-
ment’s industrial policy has been behind
coal and steel production since 1949 —
and both coal and steel are at full pro-
duction.
• m
Bruxner, N.S.W- C.P. leader, in his
opening electoral address: “How many
taxpayers outside the wheatgrowers know
that if in N.S.W. the farmers gave their
wheat to the community for nothing the
price of bread would still be more than
eightpence a loaf?” This was his retort
to a comment of State Prices Minister
Finnan that “the producers ought to
get off the backs of the workers.”
• •
Premier Playford hopes to secure for
S. Australia “the first atomic-power unit
to be built in Australia.” There’ll be no
decision until legislation defining the
powers of the Australian Atomic Energy
Commission is passed in the next Federal
session. Meanwhile there’s been progress
at Radium Hill (S.A.) in preparations to
recover uranium, and at Port Pirie a
pilot-plant to treat it has gone up. Play-
ford’s chances of getting the project seem
good ; points in S.A.’s favor are the works
just mentioned and —probably more im-
portant —the fact that industrially it is
one of the most trustworthy and Com-
munist-free parts of Australia.
• »
Up a shilling in Sydney, down four
shillings in Adelaide. If figures mean
anything that’s the difference between the
inflationary “Labor” policy in N.S.W.
and the non-inflationary non-Labor policy
in S. Australia.
• •
Australia is the largest borrower of
money for “agricultural purposes” from
the International Bank for Reconstruc-
tion and Development. The bank, on
the word of its Economic Division chief,
regards Australia as “a very good in-
vestment.” Since it deals exclusively
with the Menzies Government in these
matters, that seems to be a good answer
to Evatt’s mournful dirge about Menzies
leading us into depression.
• •
Swartz, M.H.R., Parliamentary Under-
secretary for Commerce and Agriculture,
looked over the big A.M.P. land project
in S. Australia and said if it could be
repeated elsewhere it would “open up
unlimited prospects.” Yes, provided
private enterprise does it—not the kind
of enterprise responsible for the African
peanut farce and the Queensland sorghum
stunt.
• •
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” says some
political observers believe the Gairs won’t
make a statement about the future of
the Peak Downs sorghum farm before
“New Australians!”
the Queensland elections. Nor, it seems,
will they make any statement about s.-p.
betting. The reason in both cases is that
they aren’t game.
• •
Just because, with an election coming
up, N.S.W. Transport Minister Sheahan
has announced a clean-up (yes, another)
in the transport department and it’s being
said 70 highly-paid “executives” may have
their jobs “eliminated,” nobody need
imagine that fares will come down or
any one of the 70 be put out in the crool,
crool world. All that’ll happen is that
they’ll simply be given some other Gov-
ernment job,
• •
An Australian-built Holden car com-
pleted the Monte Carlo road-reliability
trial, competing with 439 other cars.
The first Australian-made job to enter
the contest, it demonstrated to Europeans
that Australia is something more than a
big sheep-station.
• •
Premier Cain said the other day that
the Premiers’ views on whether uniform
taxation shall continue or not count for
little. But why should Premiers—“ Labor”
Premiers, anyway—be consulted on that
matter? Cain well knows that return
of taxing-powers to the States was forced
on Menzies by “Labor” Premiers’ refusal
to curb extravagance, particularly their
limitless spending on linreproductive
public works, and then accusing Canberra
of keeping them poor.
• •
A new star has been added to the
slowly-growing galaxy of rural cities.
Port Pirie (S. Aus.), having acquired the
necessary quota of 10,000 or more
people, has petitioned the State Governor
for city status.
• •
One thing Treatt promised if the N.S.W.
Liberals are elected to power ought to
win thousands of votes —local referenda
before local-government areas are amal-
gamated. “Labor” amalgamated them
without regard to local desires or opinions,
and even appointed to amalgamated
councils men whom the local people had
rejected in 1.-g. elections.
• •
There’s to be a conference of Govern-
ment railway heads in Hobart on Feb. 16,
and the “Mercury” says a main topic
will be “the recovery of goods traffic
from road-hauliers.” Legalised confisca-
tion would be a better term.
• •
No sooner was a “Labor” Govern-
ment established in Victoria than private
transport operators were threatened with
bankruptcy and unemployment. A new
transport-board order has prohibited
altogether the land carriage of many goods
other than by rail, and even timber firms
in Bendigo have been told they can’t use
their own trucks to carry their own
timber from Melbourne. S. Proud, of
Bendigo, said when he went for a permit
for his firm (no firm should have to
obtain permits for the carriage of its
own goods in its own trucks) transport
officials said they weren’t interested in
economics, and that he’d “have to go off
the road and that’s that.” It isn’t, of
course, and road-hauliers are organising
makers of trucks, truck parts and others
in a mass effort to fight the tyranny “in
the courts, in Parliament, and in the
forum of public opinion.” If the public
knew the real story of this transport-
strangulation and how it bumps up living-
costs there wouldn’t even be a fight.
• •
Because Australia happens to be the
only wheat-exporting country in the
sterling area some mean-spirited people
have been advocating a kind of blackmail
for bigger prices against struggling
Britain and other hungry countries. It
so happens that U.S.A., Canada and
Argentina have thumping crops; some of
the bigger importing countries have good
crops and lower export demand. There
will be nearly 2000 million bushels for
export and carryover, a situation which,
despite currency barriers, doesn’t put Aus-
tralia in any position to demand black-
market prices.
• •
One of the worst features of Australian
life is the notice taken of these petty
union officials. One of the breed com-
plained in Canberra that public servants
could “have their careers ruined” be-
cause of a Security check on them. This
was duly featured in the Press, and no
less a person than the Prime Minister had
to waste time telling the same Press what
it ought to know: that the activities of
Security can’t be publicly discussed. He
politely refrained from adding that no
loyal public servant need fear checking.
• •
Any doubts that “Labor” will create
plenty of employment if it gets its hand
on Federal powers has been swept away
by a Mr, Duggan, for the moment acting-
Premier of Queensland. This gentleman
told the A.W.U, in Brisbane that “trained
industrial and political representatives
would be needed in the nationalised in-
dustries and in denationalised industries
when they’re nationalised.” It’s in line
with the political-commissar idea as
practised in Communist countries, but that
doesn’t worry people like Mr. Duggan.
• •
Professor Copland says 'Australians
seemed to have developed a cult against
work. The “Labor” and Communist
parties have had a large hand in helping
.them develop it. Many Australians have
been political suckers enough to believe
that a “Welfare State” could be estab-
lished without producing more than
before.
• •
N.S.W. Egg Marketing Board is running
an “egg slogan competition” over Sydney
radio - stations. Sydney Housewives’
Association already had one; “Don’t buy
eggs at sixpence each! ”
« •
Victorian Egg Board, bowing to a storm
that has been raging for two or three
years, has been forced to cut down
“equalisation expenses,” which is a
synonym for costs of running a board,
and has thereby managed to give egg-
producers another 2d. a dozen without
increasing the price to the consumer. In
N.S.W. it has come out that out of every
6s. a dozen almost Is. goes to the board
for “administration.” The Cahill Gov-
ernment, which claims to be the workers’
friend, hasn’t said a word about it.
• •
Just as Cahill in N.S.W. is going to
hear about the revelations at the Liquor
Commission as the N.S.W. election
campaign warms up, so Gair in Queens-
land is in a knot about s.-p. betting in
his State. A royal commission recom-
mended its legalisation except in one or
two spots, and Gair is being pressed as to
his crowd’s intentions. He somewhat
testily remarked last week that he’d make
a statement at “a fit and proper time.”
• •
After only 27 years of deliberation
work was begun on the Degraves-street
subway which aims at relieving the con-
gestion at the world’s busiest intersection,
Flinders-street, Melbourne. A slab was
raised from the roadway, a councillor
lifted the first sod and threw it over his
shoulder, it hit the Lud Mayor, and a
crowd of 500 raised a cynical
cheer and departed. Then the
council workman came back and
carefully replaced the slab. It is
confidently expected that the sub-
way will be ready for Mel-
bourne’s second centenary.
A report from the Adelaide A.L.P. con-
ference says the next “Federal Labor
Government will seek Constitutional
amendments to enable it to carry out its
economic and development policies.” Dr.
Evatt seems to be lined up to lose a lot
more High Court decisions and referen-
dums if this comes off.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“O’Shamus”; He was obviously loaded
with Dutch-courage when he stepped out
of the lift and over the carpeted fifth
floor and asked to see a wedding-
trousseau. It was for to be sent across
the sea. He chose a gown. “Under,”
he said. They added a slip. “More
under, lace.” The assistant thought.
“Bra?” she asked. “Yah,” he said. The
assistants slunk back behind the counter
from his descriptive hands. “How big?”
they asked. He hitched his shorts high,
locked his hands below ope knee, and
raised it with a triumphant “So.” He
was plump, too. Shaking with wonder,
or something, the girls fitted a bra. into
the frock, and he departed beaming.
❖ ❖
“J.C.”: In a house-for-sale advertise-
ment in “S.M.H.” of 15/1/’53, I observe
an opportunity for a buyer who knows
his place:
Separate toilet with below this a
large garage, laundry and outside toilet.
No matter where you happen to be in this
home, you are where you belong.
♦> ❖ ❖
“X.M.N.”: After a night at anchor in
the St. Lawrence, just above Quebec, we
"It's your wife, Kelly."
hove up the port anchor to find we’d
collected a tremendous boulder. It was
pear-shaped, the narrow end being
jammed between the flukes. Like an
ancient wart the heavy end of the boulder
protruded from under the flare of the
bow. We dropped the anchor on the
bottom and steamed ahead with it just
bumping along, but each time we hove-
up the boulder was still there. Finally
we managed to pass several turns of wire-
back-spring under the rock between the
flukes. Steam on the windlass eventually
got the rock free. The mate didn’t even
flinch when he saw a brand-new spring
cut beyond repair; it seemed better than
steaming into our berth at Montreal with
a chunk of rock hanging from our bows.
*** * ♦♦♦
“Jackstay”: Wire-recorded evidence
(B. 7/1/’53) may not be accepted in
court, but I know one instance where it
worked wonders outside. A star an-
nouncer of a broadcasting-station had
aroused the resentment of the technical
staff by his high-handed treatment. He
had also aroused completely different
feelings in the bosom of a lady
announcer, and —as the technical
boys well knew —the pair were in
the habit of using temporarily un-
occupied studios for their late-
evening assignations. A “mike”
was secretly concealed in one of
these rooms and hooked up to
a recording unit; and the re-
sultant disk would have made
Byron blush. Next afternoon
Romeo was told that a new
and very special recording awaited
his judgment. Graciously he
deigned to- listen- —and about 10
revs, later was raving and hammer-
ing at the locked door of the
control-room, whilst from the loud-
speaker the stream of sweet
nothings and what-nottery flowed
on and on —and on. He was pale
and sweating when it ceased —they
gave him the lot—and then a quiet
but steely voice from the speaker
said, “Any more trouble from
you and we play that to the g.-m.
—and, in case you feel like smash-
ing it, we have copies.” There wasn’t
any more trouble.
♦♦♦
“C.Q.”: Unconscious errors? A new
house-owner wrote to a store asking it to
send a man out to measure the place for
neck-to-knee carpets.
* *■ ❖
“Vingter”: Twenty years after the
event my spine still tingles at the recol-
lection of the time when, hoboing it
through central Queensland, I furtively
entered an empty six-berth sleeping com-
partment, curled myself into a top bunk
and slept unperturbed by the fact that I
had no ticket. x Some hours later I was
awakened when the light in the com-
partment was switched on. I shrank as
far back as possible against the back
wall of the bunk and closed my eyes,
thereby shutting out the vision of a
deshabille lass whose comely appearance
would have delighted me in other cir-
cumstances. Only when the expected
screams did not come did I realise that
she had not seen me. Oblivious of my
presence the lass turned in. After an
agonised half-hour I heard a delicate
snore —the sweetest music that has ever
fallen on my ears. With my cigarette-
swag in my hand and my first grey hairs
on my head, I stealthily crept out into
the corridor and thence to the permanent-
way at the first stop. To this day it
requires a double rum to quieten me
when I think of what would have hap-
pened if my fellow-passenger had seen
me in my unkempt state, topped off by
a six-day beard.
“Gulliver”: Early in War II an English
technical expert of stupendous tonnage
came out to inspect our industrial
resources. Afterwards he flew home in
mystery and a bomber —and there came
to me, a lowly slave of a Ministry, a file
marked “Secret.” I was thrilled and im-
pressed. First I stealthily inspected my
fellow-workers ; none wore beards nor,
obviously and disappointingly, were any
lovely and seductive foreign countesses.
So I opened the file. The expert had
left a large tin-trunk of papers to be
sent after him, in a British vessel only;
we would be told more later. For a
fortnight I walked like a cat, avoiding
dark lanes, repelling friendly strangers in
saloon-bars lest my beer be drugged—
and then came another letter, naming the
“The tea Was just lovely. Now, you must let us help with the washing-up."
ship and laying down the procedure.
The trunk was taken from the strong-
room to a departmental car. We drove
to the wharf, and the trunk was placed
beneath the skipper’s bunk. I handed
him a letter of my own composing, in-
structing him that should capture threaten
he was to punch holes in the trunk and
cast it into the deep. Some time later we
received from his Exaltedness a letter
thanking us for the care we had taken
of his collection of pamphlets, catalogues,
leaflets and other publicity matter pushed
at him in handfuls—and at every other
visitor—at the plants he had visited. And
that was my “Secret” file! Heaven knows
what a “Top Secret” would have been!
“Colo”: When a friend of ours was
delivered of twins my husband said, “A
pigeon-pair!” Our New Australian help
demanded an explanation, but caught on
quickly. “Ah, I know—fifty-fifty! ”
♦> ❖ ❖
“North-5-West”: The young-nudist
story (B. 14/1/’53) reminds me of the
young lady who attracted a discreet and
growing audience to Takapuna beach
(N.Z.) by regularly taking her morning
swim in her birthday-suit. Some nark had
her hauled before a very frosty Beak, who
jawed her severely and fined her. The
“Auckland Observer” put it on the front-
page: “Nude Girl on Takapuna Beach
—Magistrate Takes Stern View” ; but
when half the issue was sold frantic efforts
were made to recall it. The billboards
seemed to have been overlooked, and
were fetching 2s. 6d. a pop when I hit
Auckland two days later,
+> >t+ ❖
“Wobbly”; If “Tan - tallum” and
“Zake” were unlucky on their first
Armistice Day (B. 31/12/’52), our Tommy
mob was not. We lobbed into Lessines
at 2 p.m., an hour or so too late to stop
Jerry blowing up two important bridges.
While we were waiting in the square to
be assigned billets, the deputy-mayor in-
vited five of us to his home. One corporal
and four privates accepted, and we dined
until late in the afternoon on a big stone
bottle of cognac that had been buried
in the old man’s garden since August,
1914. Back to billets for orders, we
found our company had been picked for
town guard, parade 7.30 p.m. But after
more cognac and a meal at the deputy-
mayor’s, he announced at 7 p.m. that we
were to go the rounds of the estaminets
at his expense. Someone murmured
“Town guard,” to which the corp. replied,
“ town guard” ; so that on parade
next morning the C.O. sentenced the com-
pany to 48 hours’ guard duty on the
blown-up bridges, well out of town.
Having marched there, we found that
the only building available as guardhouse
was a well-stocked estaminet with a
dance-floor ; our thoughtful O.C. rostered
us for duty in groups of eight, one
hour on, four hours off; and before
noon half the town-mademoiselles had
made their way to the estaminet on foot
or cycle. At the end of our 48 hours’
duty" the estaminet was bone-dry, the
mob and the mademoiselles were sleepy,
dance-tired and happy, and the pro-
prietor and his madame were blessing
le bon Dieu for their luck.
“Blanc”: Back again among Diggers,
this time in Sydney’s Yaralla repat.
hospital, I still hear “mungeree”
and “hurgoo” every day. As it
comes along the ramp a couple always
call out, “Here comes the mungeree-
trolley!” and the New Australian nurse
says, as she hands me the porridge, You
like burgoo?” I know the French manger
gives us “mungeree,” but could some-
one tell me whence comes “burgoo”?
*** ♦> *>
“Pawang”: Millions of pounds have
been spent on the treatment of catarrhal
complaints, sinus- and antrum-operations
and injections of serum as antidotes to
everything from orchids, dahlias and
horse-dander to feathers and house-dust,
but the world goes on sneezing its head
off as heartily as ever. Might it not be
that these manifestations are psycho-
logically, not physically, conditioned? I
suggested as much to a woman who has
been a martyr to hay-fever all her life.
She said it was nonsense; her allergy
was wattle-pollen. I told her of the
patient who was found to be allergic to
roses, and who, going into the doctor’s
consulting-room, burst into a paroxysm
of sneezing on seeing a bowl of them
artificial ones. “Oh, yes,” my friend
said, “but my case is different. I
had my first violent fit of sneezing of the
season a few months ago when I was
walking along a street. Then I turned
a corner and saw an enormous wattle
covered with blossom. It wasn’t in my
field of vision when I started sneezing.”
“No doubt,” I said. “But what month
is it?” “August.” “Don’t the names of
the months have different memories for all
of us? Doesn’t January suggest heat-
waves to an Australian and snow-storms
to an Englishman? And wouldn’t August
suggest wattle-blossom?”
i* ❖ ❖
“Lofty”: I’d like to add a protest
to “Sack’s” remarks on the current
popular song “Auf Wiedersehen” (B.
24/12/’52). Wilf Thomas presented
the song in an A.B.C. session about
the middle of last year, sung by
German orphans, who sounded happy,
though they had little cause to be—they
made it really sound like a song. The
record is about, but I haven’t been able
to buy it yet. But when I listen to “The
sweetheart, of the British troops,” assisted
by “British troops,” moaning her way
through the funeral dirge which is the
result of the “new find” I’m all for
Marie Stopes’s theories being made
retrospective.
THOUGHTS ON CERTAIN
OLYMPIC GAMES
“Victorian ‘Labor’ Premier Cain having
stopped work on Olympic Games preparations,
and demanded their transfer from Carlton to
Melbourne Cricket Ground, a Sydney delegate
to the international committee said that if he
could not get an assurance that work would
proceed, Melbourne would lose the Games.”
Give a “Labor” man his due,
But not a grandstand —
He’ll think it’s just for playing-to
From his own bandstand.
Even if it isn’t built
He’ll become critical
And use the flagstaff for a tilt
In fields political,
Throwing the plans, well-laid and neat,
Into confusion,
Insisting on a grandstand-seat
Redistribution;
Or, being taken to the site,
He will expectorate.
Seeking its transfer to a quite
Different electorate.
Till, tired at last of watching Cain
Try to uproot it,
A Sydney man must make it plain
Where he can put it;
To some, perhaps, this kind of game
May seem a skimpy one,
But “Labor’s” hunger after fame
Is not Olympian.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Alsace”: Melbourne papers have been
full of the shortage of maternity-beds,
but inmates of St. Vincent’s got a shock
when a fully-dressed bride and ’groom,
obviously straight from church, hurried
out of a taxi and rushed inside. “No-
thing like booking early,” a nurse said ;
and another said, “You’re cutting it a
bit fine, aren’t you?” The bride, blushing
furiously by now, giggled and asked for
Ward 15. She only wanted to show her
gown to a relative.
♦>
“Uramao”: Not only straw-boaters
(B. 3/12/’52) but also billycock hard-
hitters have been pressed’ into church-
service. When one of Father O’Hal-
loran’s plates was missing, Jerry passed
his bowler round; then he and John,
who had both grown grey in this occupa-
tion, returned to the table at the back
of the church. The jingle of coin could
be heard in the back-benches, also John’s
remark, “Turn out the leather-band inside
of that old tile of yours, Jerry; sure,
some of the money might be there,”
Jerry’s reply is said to be the reason why
the eyes of all the stained-glass characters
in the windows are now averted to heaven.
£<■ * ***
“Fairf”: Our district hospital having
started waste-paper collecting, with neces-
sary brown-paper bags supplied to resi-
dents, opposition later crept in. Die new
bag bore the sticker of a women’s hospital.
Then came another candidate for our
valuable waste: a crippled-children’s
institution. Presently yet another
promoted-cementbag began to appear on
the lawn; it sported a printed appeal
from the local Pensioners’ Society. I
was just toying with the idea of founding
a new hobby along the lines of philately,
when new bags not only ceased to rain
upon the lawn, but the full ones remained
uncollected. Gradually the word spread
around by the side-fence gazette: the
bottom had fallen out of the waste-paper
business, collectors had burnt tons of the
stuff, and henceforth if shopkeepers
wanted their rubbish removed it would
"You ought to be helping Granny get on the train, Barry."
“cost ’em.” As for the rest of us, it
seems that we’re left holding the bags.
+ * + +++
“Hist”: “By contrast the House of
Lords has conducted its proceedings with
the utmost decorum” (London Airmail,
7/1/’53). Well, I dunno. Here is a
young Australian girl’s sketch of that
august House in session: “Golly, it was
a funny turnout—some of them went to
sleep, others had their feet up on the
desks. Some had a real good gossip,
others had a walk around and then came
back. The debate was abput the Clothing
Bill, and pensions; it wasn’t as interest-
ing as the antics of the members. I
think that the Lord Chancellor must have
had a flea under his wig; he kept lifting
up the side-bits and scratching under-
neath it was really a good afternoon’s
entertainment.”
❖ ❖
“Teeperce”: Even more mysterious
than the terms in which the Wog vendors
cried their wares (B. 31/12/’52) was the
manner in which they turned up in the
most unlikely quarters. Most popular
theory was that, like insect denizens of
the desert, they rose suddenly from the
sand, at the sound of troops on the march.
When we were undergoing our periods
of “water training,” the idea of which
was the inculcation of self-disci-
pline by desert marches on which
even sipping at waterbottles was
forbidden, we had uncanny
evidence of this. Though halting-
places were not previously planned,
being decided en route by com-
pany commanders, no sooner had
we stopped than dozens of Wogs,
each fiercely proclaiming the
superiority of his particular brand
of ice-cream, swarmed around us.
Officers found it impossible to
restrict trade, which at the first
halt was confined to villainous ice-
cream brought out into the desert
by some means known only to the
Wogs, and, which, of course, only
accentuated the thirst of the
marchers. At the next halt the
same vendors, or their twin
brothers, would again materialise,
this time with the cry “Oranges,
viry clean, viry chip, viry hygiene! ”
“5 G.R.”: Diggers remember the
Gurkha as an infantry soldier with a
special aptitude for night-patrols and
close-fighting, but with India’s partition
four regiments joined the British Army,
and expansion has produced gunners and
sappers. Indian rank has been aban-
doned ; Gurkhas are now corporals,
sergeants and so on. The boys’ battalion
now has a squad in Scotland, studying
for the R.M.C. at Sandhurst, from which
they will emerge with the Queen’s com-
mission. Good at maths, those lads fresh
from the jungle a year or two ago have
lost none of their simplicity and natural-
ness. Ultimately, one of them will com-
mand the Gurkha division in the British
Army. ,
❖ ♦♦♦ *X*
“Nakhoda”; There is something very
comic in fhe surprise of foreign corres-
pondents at finding that the Japanese
haven’t abandoned their belief in Emperor
Hirohito’s godhead. When Hirohito,
under MacArthur’s direction, made the
famous renunciation of his godhead, it
was regarded in Western circles as a
terrific revolution in Japanese thinking,
Here was a person who had always been
regarded as a god saying that he was not
divine, but just an ordinary human-being.
But it is just as much a Japanese con-
vention for the speaker to apologise at the
end of a speech for having bored his
audience with stuff of no importance as
it is an Australian convention for the
opener of an art show to start off by
saying, he doesn’t know anything about
art and can’t imagine why such an in-
significant person as himself should have
been asked to open such a magnificent ex-
hibition. That’s more or less what Hiro-
hito did, and there wouldn’t have been a
Jap in the audience who didn’t think
the whole thing , was a joke for the
delectation of the hon. American guests
of the gieat Nippon.
♦♦♦
“Vingter”; The diplomat’s wife who
made a social engagement of the butcher’s
call reminds me of camp-concert parties
“Listen to what they say. Mum — We've got to produce more."
in 1940, which left the officers’ mess
deserted between 1900 and 2200 hours,
the Old Man being a front-row regular.
But on the night Army Entertainment
decided to uplift us with good music
instead of the usual leg-show, the old
man fidgeted, and then slipped out be-
tween acts. In the mess he found an
informal guest-night in progress. From
the cushioned ease of his own special
chair his permanent lance-corporal O.C.
of latrine details played host to the staffs
of the various cookhouses, who were
making the most of billiard-table, bar
and other amenities. The Old Man crept
back unnoticed to the concert, just in
time to prevent a party of officers from
dodging their full inoculation of culture
—because, he said later, loudly enough
for those to hear whom it would hurt
most, of the gentlemanly behavior of the
intruders as contrasted with that of
accredited members. Nevertheless, O.C.
latrines in future held his parties else-
where.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“H.A.L.”: In Adelaide, 20 years ago, I
saw a batliing-beauty competition (B.
31/12/’52) in which the three judges, one
a well-known artist, called on the entrants
to parade in a bunch, then one at a time
to go through a simple series of tests —
sitting in a deckchair, reaching up to
pick a flower off a high bush and walk-
ing up and down a short flight of steps.
After this the judges went into a huddle ;
then they called for a woman to measure
the neck, bust, waist and hips of
each entrant. When the prize went
to a small, dark-haired woman
who was shapely enough but
whose features were the plainest
of the bunch, murmurs of dissent
arose from the spectators, where-
upon the artist gave the reason
for the decision: “In the Louvre
is a statue of Aphrodite found on
the island of Melos. It is known
to most people as the . Venus de
Milo. Artists and anatomists
agree that this figure represents
the ideal of feminine beauty.
We have awarded the prize to
a young woman who not only moves with
unstudied grace, but whose bodily
measurements are nearest to those of that
statue. None of her measurements vary
from those of the statue by more than
half an inch.” Incidentally, the winner
owned to being 34 years of age.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Taffy”: The word “jamboree” would
appear to have its roots much further
back than either the Sydney “Herald” or
“Jasby” (B. 7/l/’53) imagines. A likely
derivation is from the Arabic jama’,
which denotes a congregational mosque,
or, in Berber, a council. Indirectly it
may have reached English through the
East Indies (in its widest sense), or through
Spain, where the provincial jamar means
“to eat.” Anyway, that is as good a
guess as any other.
♦♦♦ ❖ <♦
“C. 8.”; Inflation has hit the artist as
much as any, prices of material having
gone sky-high. Went into a shop the
other day and asked for a brush —not a
paint-brush, but an ordinary calcimine-
brush —and the shopman looked up the
price-list, remarking “You’ll be sur-
prised.” I was, it was £ll 10s. Canvas-
shortage has compelled many artists to
use both sides or paint the new picture
over an old one. A well-known woman
artist was painting a landscape on
Phillip Island. A crowd gathered
around, the size of which did not surprise
her as much as the fact that it was in
front of her, not behind her. On pack-
ing up she discovered the reason —on the
back of the board was a studio nude.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Oolambeyan”: Can’t ~ -cept claims
that America was the bi. place of the
phrase “Public enemy.” On January 20,
1649, Charles I was charged with being
a “tyrant and murderer,” and at the end
of the evidence the court resolved “that
this court will proceed to sentence of
condemnation against Charles Stuart,
King of England, for being a tyrant,
traitor and murderer, and a public enemy
and that this condemnation shall extend
to death.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ceg” on some heavy artillery:
“Swords into ploughshares” was all right in
its day, but the modern equivalent seems to be
“Old cannon into flower-beds.” This obser-
vation is prompted by the number of ancient
pieces of ordnance which dot the landscape in
public gardens. The city of Ballarat, for ex-
ample, mounts quite a battery in its lakeside
gardens. Should the Navy be searching for gun
No. 17, a ten-inch muzzl,e-loader cast in 1869
and capable of throwing a projectile of 4001 b.,
I can tell them where it is. Weighing 18 tons,
and once mounted on H.M.V.S. Cerberus (the
“V” is for Victorian —not Victory), it now guards
Lake Wendouree against any invading armada
which may come steaming across it. During
battle-practice in 1893 the right trunnion became
fractured, hence its present resting-place. Four
other guns of lesser calibre, and of 1843 vintage,
point north, south, east and west, but these,
as the inscription relates, are only on loan from
the Defence Department and can of course be
requisitioned (on the appropriate form) in the
event of things becoming desperate. Unfor-
tunately the men who manned them arc not
available for further call-up. These old guns
are made of some non-rusting metal, possibly
Lowmoor iron, apropos of which there is an
ancient anchor, lying in the foreshore gardens
at Williamstown, the swivel of which is made
of that metal. It belonged to the Bellerophon,
which was seized from the French and served
under Nelson at Copenhagen and ‘Trafalgar.
Later, the anchor was used on H.M.V.S. Nelson,
Victoria’s first man-o’-war, laid down in 1805
and launched in 1814, so our present-day dock-
yards may not be „so slow after all. Of 2700
tons, H.M.V.S. Nelson mounted 126 guns,
and in 1859 was fitted with a propeller. But
that, of course, is hush-hush, and I trust no
foreign spies will make use of the information.
LEAVE CENTRE
Sometimes when the music’s low
And light is but the saffron glow
Transmitted from a radio,
I wonder:
Who will be where I used to lie
In bed beside a window high
Above the Pott’s Point passer-by ?
I wonder.
Who will be seeing things I saw
Down rooftops to the harbor’s shore
In starry velvetness of war ?
I wonder.
Who will say “neighbor” to the sky
And, saying, know the mood that I
Once mooded in a hostel high ?
I wonder.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.
WOOL, 1953
Baa, baa, black sheep,
Have you any wool ?
Yes, sir, yes, sir,
Three bales full.
One to buy a Rolls-Royce .
One to buy a plane,
One to see the Queen crowned\
And back home again.
N.S.W.
BIRUBL


PERSONAL ITEMS
Back after two years in London as Aus-
tralian defence rep. and head of the
joint services staff, Major-General
Rudolph Bierwirth has had some experi-
ence of coming home. At the end of
War II he was D.Q.M.G. (movements)
for the A.1.F., his job getting Diggers
home from overseas. Earlier, he had
come home himself from the Western
Desert, Syria and New Guinea. A
student of the new Governor-General at
the Imperial Defence College in 1946. he
is headed for the job of G.0.C., Western
Command.
“Macnell”: At present driver of
destroyer Tobruk, Commander Jack
Mesley, D.S.C., shifts his address shortly
to her sister-ship, Anzac, now exercising
her four dual-purpose 4.5-inchers off
Korea. He’ll be in* command of the
10th Destroyer Squadron. A navigation
specialist, Mesley has had most of his
time in cruisers, and early in the war was
pilot of Britisher Hawkins, Harwood’s
flagship after the Graf Spec action. He
shifted to the Hobart in the Mediter-
ranean, and had been in the Canberra a
few months when she got hers at Savo
Island. His first destroyer command was
one of those old contemptibles of
Goebbels’s sneer, Vendetta, with which
he landed the first troops at Madang.
Then, cruiser-time again, Squadron Navi-
gating Officer in the Australia and Shrop-
shire during their business in Borneo and
Philippine waters. Launched at Bruns-
wick (Vic.), Mark 1910.
When The Bulletin called on Donald
Macßae, Sydney’s new harbormaster, it found
a fathom or so of weatherburned Scot, canny
at first, and then, when artist Hawley’s mini-
strations proved painless, his own widely-
smiling self. That grin earned him the name
HARBORMASTER
of “Smiling Mac” on Gallipoli, where he was
beachmaster, and the last man to leave the
peninsula—a claim backed by a Bulletin
article of 27 years ago.
The skipper’s next war was as dangerous as
his first, though he had most of it in Newcastle
Harbor (N.S.W.). There, in 1943, the American
ship Davenport, helpfully loaded with
fuel-oil and munitions, caught fire alongside.
With fire-brigades impotent under the heat,
Macßae ordered the ship towed clear. Calling
for volunteers (the ship’s master and two seamen
followed him), Macßae jumped aboard, had two
tugs made fast, and got his ship, a fluxing mass
of flame, under way. Rounding the breakwater
the ammo went up. What was left, Macßae
anchored outside. They waited not upon the
order of their going, and scrambled into a
launch. Two minutes later the oil-tanks ex-
ploded.
Later that year another ship grounded on the
breakwater, fouling the fairway. When Macßae
took her out at high tide, under tow, she was
drawing 28ft. forrard. All right, except that
there was a minefield in the way. Its explosive
bulbs were laid at. just under 30ft. To make it
more interesting, the flooded ship was trailing
her anchor-chain overboard. But Davy Jones
smiled, and the field was still intact at the end
of the war.
Born on the n.-w. coast of Scotland, Macßae
is windjammer-trained, and has been a pilot
for over 20 years, and boss of Newcastle’s water
since 1944. Both sons were in War ll—one, a
Spitfire pilot defending Malta, lost his life in
a crash into the sea a few miles from his
father’s birthplace; the other was an ack-ack
gunner in New Guinea and Borneo.
Appointed Professor of Civil En-
gineering in his former university, Keith
Leo Cooper, Westralian Rhodes Scholar
for 1927, brings a mort of civil-engineer-
ing practice, teaching experience and re-
search to the post. Now 46, he graduated
in science from the Westralian University,
took the Oxford M.A. and B.Sc. and
gained first-hand knowledge of road- and
bridge-construction in England before
coming home to the job of assistant-
engineer with the W.A. Railways, in
which, earlier, he had been a cadet-
engineer. There followed two years as
resident-engineer in Launceston for the
Tasmanian railways and a lectureship in
civil-engineering at Melbourne University
from 1941 to 1945. Leaving theory for
practice, Cooper joined the C.5.1.R.0.’s
forest-products division as senior research-
officer, becoming principal research-
officer in 1948.
Reckoning 30 years is more than
enough in N.S.W. politics, Old Digger
Roy Vincent will turn-in the Raleigh seat
for the February furore. A serious-
minded politician with a reputation for
speaking only on things whereof he
knows, before War X Vincent edited a
paper at Dorrigo (N.S.W.), went to
France, was blown-up and gassed, and
had a long stretch in hospital. Minister
for Mines and Forests in 1932 —even in
those days a hard worker for new States
—he’s now deputy C.P.-leader. Sixty-one
the month he retires.
An unusual career ended with the
death, in Adelaide, of Victor Newland.
He left St. Peter’s College for the S. Aus-
tralian Light Horse, shipped to the Boer
War, won D.C.M., then trekked north
to Kenya, to become one of the colony’s
early settlers. With another S. Aus-
tralian, Newland organised big-game ex-
peditions, conducting his safaris in a
businesslike manner under a registered
company. From lions and elephants he
shifted to more conventional commerce,
and ended-up president of the Associated
Chambers of Commerce, with a seat in
the colony’s Legislative Council. When
the Kaiser struck Newland was on leave
in Adelaide. He returned to Kenya,
gained a commission in the King’s
African Rifles, and finished that war with
his majority, M.C., 0.8. E. and three
“mentions.” The toll of the tropics sent
him back to Adelaide, this time for good
—his business interests maintained by
membership of the Stock Exchange, and
political by a seat in the Assembly
member for North Adelaide.
six at the end, he was a particularly hard
worker for Old Diggers.
“Cauboy”: In Melbourne to conduct
concerts, Rudolf Pekarek (permanent
conductor of the Westralian Symphony
Orchestra) is glad to be in a country
where people have unhampered personal
and intellectual freedom (he didn’t
add- except when they happen to be
A.B.C. conductors!). A Czech, he was
founder and director of the Film-Concert-
Opera Orchestra of Prague in the days
before Czechoslovakia was Iron Cur-
tained. Here, when you hear footsteps
outside in the early morning you think
of the milkman, but in his country you
can’t be so certain. Pekarek studied at
Prague Conservatorium under Professor
Tulich, who preceded Kubelik as con-
ductor of the Prague Philharmonic. He
lets his hair down with symphonic jazz
on occasion.
From inspector of S. Australian tech-
nical schools to superintendent of the
same goes J. S. Walker, a B.Sc. of
Adelaide University. A solidly competent
career takes in a senior mastership at
Adelaide High, establishment of the first
S. Australian science laboratory work-
shop therein, organisation of the first edu-
cational broadcast by the A.B.C. over
State stations, and planning of the
Whyalla technical school. He succeeds
G. S. McDonald, gone up to the Deputy
Directorship of Education.
“Murph”: Accepting a professorial
engagement in the U.S., Professor Sidney
Sunderland, Dean of the Anatomy School
at Melbourne “Shop,” will star in a five-
months’ assignment as visiting Professor
of Anatomy at the Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity, Baltimore; the first Australian
appointed to that select medical school.
He was in the news previously with his
expert evidence in the pyjama-girl
murder-case. As well as lecturing at
Johns Hopkins he will research into the
nervous system. Son of the versatile
Harry Sunderland (now sporting radio-
and Press-man in the Rugby League play-
ing counties in the Old Dart, and erstwhile
Queensland journalist, editor, stadium
publicity man, Queensland Rugby League
secretary, member of the Australian
Rugby League Board of Control and
manager of a succession of Test sides),
Professor Sunderland was groomed for
his assignment at Brisbane State High
School, Melbourne Scotch and Brisbane
and Melbourne Medical Schools. He’s
a vigorous 43.
A comparatively New Australian who
describes himself as “a Stateless European
Jew,” Joseph Gani has been appointed
lecturer in maths, at the Westralian Uni-
versity. He’s packed a bit of travel and
academic experience into his 28 years.
Commencing his schooling in Egypt, he
continued it in Japan, and switched back
to the English school in which he later
started his teaching career. Since then
he had become honors graduate of the
Imperial College of London University,
maths, demonstrator in the college, and
lecturer at Melbourne University. He
left Melbourne with hopes of qualifying
for a Doctorate of Philosophy, but im-
mediately stumbled over the nationality
snag. The British Home Office, classify-
ing him as an alien, would not grant a
permit to lecture at Birkbeck College,
London. Since landing back in Australia
last August he’s been teaching at the
Horsham (Vic.) High School.
Turned up in Melbourne, shod in
kangaroo-hide—“the best leather in the
world”—William M. Scholl, known for
his support for fallen arches which mil-
lions walk on the world over. Intended
by his father, a farmer, for the world of
music, young Scholl got a job in a Chicago
shoe-store in order to finance a medical
course at college, and while there noticed
how much pain and suffering was caused
by malformed feet; so he devised his
arch-support. It grew into an immense
business which spreads over close on
50 countries and employs an army of
12,000.
Now in the driver’s seat of the Aus-
tralian Automobile Association, Stanley
Willmott, for the past two years president
of the Royal Automobile Club of Queens-
land, is by profession an optometrist,
though for years he has directed the
Queensland business interests of Arthur
Cocks and Co. English-born, he migrated
this way in 1908, served in the A.I.F.
and R.F.C. in the Kaiser’s show, and in
the R.A.A.F. in Hitler’s. A former
hockey international, one-time president
. of the Australian and Queensland Hockey
Associations, and of Brisbane Rotary, of
a weekend he’s usually to be found motor-
ing—to a fishing-spot.
Cyril Smith, who has been on tempo-
rary loan to Repat. for 30 years, is retir-
ing. He exchanged Robertson and
Mullens’ book-counter for the Army in
1910, went to Gallipoli in 1915 with the
Light Horse, was wounded, became staff-
officer to the Director-General of Medical
Services, and then got his temporary
billet with the commission. In 1948 the
Army decided to retire him, but he con-
tinued as Commissioner of Repat. until
his 65th birthday, a few days ago. His
brightest memory of his service is the
fact that he has lent £7 million to War II
Diggers.
Herewith, Alan B. Steele, lately resigned
from Queensland’s Red Cross Appeal
Directorship. Better known to Diggers
with major-general before his name,
Steele is himself a Queenslander. He
entered Duntroon as the youngest member
of the first class, left the college
RETIRED COLLECTOR
at 19, and at 21 was 2 i/c of a battalion
in France, already with Gallip. experi-
ence behind him. His strategical study
of the war in France brought high praise
from Monash. In the early days of War
II commandant at Darwin, he got closer
to the Japs in New Guinea and Borneo.
He’s had 13 months in the Red Cross
job, one of his last fatigues therein the
persuading of 100,000 Bananalanders to
become Cross members at an annual
sub, of £l.
Portrayed hereunder, Claude Cornwell,
as well-known in Sydney’s insurance
world as a policy-form. He’s had close
on half a century in the game. In 1933
Union Insurance of, Canton, whose history
goes back to 1835, thought him a good
enough risk to open their Sydney branch.
He’s still there, behind a door marked
“manager.” Apart from the Sydney
branch, which he’s built up to healthy
solidity, Cornwell’s main prides are his
garden at Pymble (featured once in a Mel-
bourne house-and-garden magazine), and
INSURANCE MANAGER
his having oled out in one on the
Australian golf-course (proved by a cer-
tificate on the office-wall). His lathei
was the Cornwell of Cornwell’s vinegar.
Two pioneers of the Australian beef-
cattle industry have been made honorary
life-members of the Foil Shorthorn
Society of Australasia —H. R. Munro,
Keera Stud, Bingara (N.S.W.), and J. L.
Wilson, Calliope Station (Q.). Now in his
91st year, Munro is one of the best-known
personalities in the industry, owner of
properties in N.S.W, and Queensland,
and for years closely connected with the
breeding and development of Poll Short-
horns, Shorthorns and Aberdeen-Angus
beef-cattle. Wilson’s territory is Queens-
land, where he has had more than 50
years’ experience in stud- and fat-stock-
raising. One-time member of the Aus-
tralian Meat Board, and a foundation
member of the Poll Shorthorn Society
of Australasia, he was for long president
of the Queensland Royal National Show
Society.
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 79, Thomas Clive Groom,
before he retired well-known as an engineering
architect in Sydney. He supervised construction
of the Newstead wharves in Brisbane, as well as
wharves in Rabaul and Fiji. The biggest job
with which he was associated was the fitting-out
wharf at Garden Island, on which stands, its
foundations well under water, the Navy’s 250-
ton crane —largest in the Southern Hemisphere.
At Rottnest (W.A.) at 49, Victor Cranston
Munt, Hydraulic Engineer of the Westralian
Public Works Department. On the academic
side B.A. and M.E, of the Westralian University,
on the practical end he worked on every im-
portant dam in the State. In America in
1947 on a Gledden travelling scholarship, he
brought back new construction methods some
of which have become accepted practice through-
out the Commonwealth. His last big jobs were
raising the Mundaring Weir (completed in 1951)
and the Wellington Dam. The weir job has
been recognised as work of the highest standard
in hydraulic engineering. In 1936 the Australian
Institution of Engineering awarded him the
Robert W. Chapman medal for his contribution
to the art and science of structural engineering.
At 72, in Melbourne, Francis Charles John-
ston, Australia’s most distinguished brass-bands-
man. The bands he conducted won more than
600 contests in Australia and New Zealand.
Two years ago he batoned his Collingwood team,
which he has conducted for 50 years, to victory
in Tasmania. The muted blare of the brasses
from every band in Melbourne was heard at
his funeral.
At Killara (Sydney), at 83, Jacques Henry
Fuller, a personality of Clarence- and York-
streets, noted for his high collar, moustache and
a book he wrote on fish and fishing-tackle.
He was governing-director of Haverford Pty.i
Ltd., and did great work in the establishment
of the Kuring-gai Community Service Hospital
and Roseville Golf Club. A Sydney paper
credited him with “several books on gardening.”
He spent early-morning hours every day in his
Killara garden fighting onion-weed and coax-
ing stubborn soil to produce anything from
potatoes and sweet-corn to mangoes, but he
didn’t write books about it. Still, he would
have enjoyed the joke.
In Melbourne, Ada Whiting, known inter-
nationally as a miniature painter on ivory. Ex-
amples hang in many of the world’s art-
galleries, one of Alfred Fenton being i n
the Melbourne National Gallery.
At 63, William Graham Newell, second-gen-
eration controller of the old North Queensland
firm of Jack and Newell. His father founded the
business and was a member of the Queensland
Legislative Assembly.


LOST WITHOUT ONE


ABORIGINALITIES
“Birubi”: A verse contribution printed
in an English paper contained the line
“I take the billy for the milk” ; it was
criticised on the grounds that “nanny” not
“billy” delivers the milk! Similarly, a
French woman travelling in the Orion
suddenly flung down an Australian book
and exclaimed “Ah! the barbarians!” I
found the offending passage: “And they
went into the bush and boiled the billy.”
♦ * * ♦
“Cam”: When our council decided it
could afford a truck instead of the horse-
and-cart that had been used for many
years, everyone wondered what would
become of the old horse and the big black
dog Nigger, who had followed them round
the streets for more than six years. The
horse was sold to a farmer, and when
the time came for parting it was left to
the dog to choose for himself whom he
would follow. As the farmer led the
horse away. Nigger became frantic,
running back and forth between the two
council employees, who had brought him
up since puppyhood, and his animal
friend. When he finally realised that he
must choose, he gave one last apologetic
look at the men and ran contentedly after
the horse.
# * * *
“J.E.8.”: After dinner the night before
the native rebellion in Rabaul my personal
boy came to the veranda to get instruc-
tions as to chores for the next day. He
dutifully said: “Yes, master.” That
was the last I saw of him for five days,
f<3r by next morning thousands of natives
had assembled in the labor-lines at Mala-
guna, together with 247 police-boys and
other administrative natives, bent on
getting rid of the dim-dims (whites).
Later, most of them took to the bush.
The main worry was to get back the
police-boys, for each had a rifle and at
least one cartridge. It says something
for the Administrator’s strategy that
within 18 hours all the police-boys were
picked up and their arms found. Method
of capture: The Administration requisi-
tioned motor-cars. Four whites to each
car sped to points farther away than any
native could have run since morning, then
turned back. At every native village all
hands were turned out, made to form a
circle, then ordered to walk, hurry and
then run. By aid of taps from pick-
handles they were prompted to go faster
and faster. Suddenly the white-in-charge
called “Halt!” Despite discarded uni-
forms, the trained police-boys responded.
They were grabbed, handcuffed and
bundled into the car. By next dawn all
deserting police were under lock and key.
“Velly good—plenty cheap.”
“A Wonderful comeback!”
“Icinit”: For once Australia is a step
ahead of U.S.A. In canning green-peas
the quality of the pack depends on rigid
control of the quality of the peas used;
immature peas break up during process-
ing, overmature peas will turn out hard
or floury. Moreover, the grower, paid by
weight, is prone to postpone harvesting
until the peas are heavier, but past their
prime. From the U.S.A. we have had
the “tenderometer,” which measures the
pressure required to crush a sample of
peas, giving a reading by which the canner
can assess their quality. But we have
still had to depend on the judgment of
the canner’s field-representative to in-
struct the grower when to harvest his
crop—and human judgment is fallible.
Now the C.5.1.R.0. has perfected and
patented the “maturometer” which not
only measures the quality of a sample
but forecasts with reasonable accuracy
how much longer an immature crop re-
quires to reach its optimum. It consists
of a metal plate with 143 pea-sized
hollows —something after the style of a
solitaire-board. With a pea in each
hollow, a companion set of 143 pins is
lowered to pierce each pea, and the force
required measured on a dial. A reading
of 250 indicates peas at their prime;
from any reading below that figure the
canner can calculate how many more days
are required to bring the crop to per-
fection.
* * * *
“Stweeler”: Those lines of abo.-pidgin-
verse from Sarah Musgrave’s The
Way backs (B. 31/12/’52) convince me
that the abo. poets were a's quick as any-
one to adapt other men’s verse. Mrs.
Musgrave’s quotation went:
Wallen tumble ? down,
Wheelbarrow brokit;
Mr. Icely very poor,
Baal gibbit blanket.
Wentworth is not very far from the
Murrumbidgee country where that was
composed. On one occasion the Went-
worth (aborigines considered they had
been underpaid for raising a sunken river-
steamer. The song they sang derisively
about the streets of the town for weeks
afterwards is far superior to the Murrum-
bidgee verse, but shows a relationship to
it;
Teemer, teenier tumble down,
Wimbi a bogie kitchee toorie no good,
Baal give ’em blanket,
Baal give ’em flour,
Baal give ’em tobacco,
Cumbooka witcha gamma moora,
Good morning, old woman.
To the abos a stern-wheel steamer was a
wheelbarrow boat, and had the steamer
concerned been a stern-wheeler an even
closer relationship between the two sets of
words would have been apparent. Unfor-
tunately for such theorising, however, it
was a side-wheeler,
“Teddie”: In the wayback before there
was a breakwater or a wharf at
Warrnambool (Vic.), goods from sailing-
ships had to be brought ashore in small
boats and dumped on the beach. A local
importer named Darcy used abos as
transport, providing them with wheel-
barrows in which his supplies were
trundled through the heavy sand to a
place convenient for loading on to
bullock-drays. He paid in tomahawks.
One day a barrow broke down, spilling
its load in the sand, and the abo. in charge
applied to Darcy for a fresh one. Instead
he got the blame, laced with curses, for
the accident. Justly indignant, he threw
up the job on the spot, and, not being
master of the necessary English to tell
Darcy what he thought, extemporised the
following farewell:
Wheelbarrow broke,
Tumble down, tossy;
No good tomahawk,
No good Mlsta Darcy!
♦ ♦ * *
“Metax”: The old chap is never very
communicative, but he unbeiit briefly and
curtly to explain the, names of his two
dogs. “I call them Crusty and Doughy
because Crusty is the better fired.”
*N* * ♦
“Ernbian”: Despite travellers’ tales
about Torres Strait islanders’ contempt
for sharks (B. 7/1/’53), the natives as I
knew them always took all precautions.
Faced with the evil-looking eyes during
underwater operations, they would fling
beche-de-mer or other marine pick-up
towards the grinning teeth and make a
zigzag course upwards. In some cases
the native managed to dig his thumbs
into the 4 creature’s eyes, thus causing it
to release hold. Treacle, a mainland
aboriginal who dived over the boat’s side
into the open jaws of a big shark, is
reputed to have escaped in that way he
was in Thursday Island hospital for a
long spell after the doctors had put in
some clever work, and he carried the teeth-
marks round his throat till his death.
One old fellow lost a hand when a shark
suddenly popped along as he was spearing
crayfish under water —he thrust the cray
towards the enemy’s mouth but misjudged
the distance. A common superstition
among Torres Strait people is that shark-
bite is often retribution for infidelity or
for “spoiling” of girls, and a wounded or
dying victim may be surrounded by a
group demanding the name of the women
he’s injured.
* * * *
“P.1.P.”; It’s often held that the blue-
wren is a Mormon, content with no fewer
than three wives. Supporters of the
theory maintain that in every colony
of wrens seen there is only one blue. The
fallacy must arise from the fact that, until
they are about four years, male wrens get
their bright, blue wedding-suits only dur-
ing the mating season and shed them
again after their families are self-
supporting.. Thus poor Blue is foully
slandered and his sons mistaken for
members of his harem.
* * * »
“Brolga”: Don’t know about separat-
ing sheep from goats, but I’ll place young
kids well ahead of young lambs in the
matter of commonsense. Riding round
the lambing-paddocks of an East Coast
(M.L.) station in alleged spring weather
when the lazy westerlies chilled one’s
bones—we called them lazy winds because
they were too tired to go around a man
and went through him instead—l often
noticed young kids, only a few hours
old, sheltering snug behind grassy tussocks
while their mothers ranged anything up
to half a mile away. You could ride
right up to them and they wouldn’t move
from their shelter until Mum came and
claimed them. But the lambs staggered
about on all the exposed places and, as
likely as not, tried to follow your horse
if their mothers weren’t right at hand.
And that meant mucking about for an
hour or so until you got them mothered
up again.,
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Somewhere in the hills
between Lang Lang and Warragul
(Gippsland) we had a small fencing con-
tract. One Saturday 1 got a. lift into
Warragul, bought some tucker, got a lift
part way back and hit the camp about
5 p.m. Mat was trying to up-end a big
rock with a crowbar. “You trainin’
for somethin’?” I asked. “It’s that
flamin’ mouse,” he grunted. , “What
flamin’ mouse?” “That flamin’ mouse!”
“Look,” 1
said, “y’ve
only been on
your own
about five
hours. Don’t
tell me y’re
seem’ things.”
Mat sat on
the rock and
spoke calmly. “Y’ took the matches,” he
said reproachfully. “I found one waxy
in me old coat pocket. I put it carefully
on the box. I kept puttin’ off hayin’ a
smoke. When I couldn’t stand it no
longer I go in t’ get the match an’ I’m
just in time t’ sight that flamin’ mouse
gettin’ away with it. He’s under this
ruddy rock.” I held out a box of matches.
Mat eyed it. “It’s not that,” he growled.
“It’s the principle of the thing.” And he
grabbed the bar and went for the rock
again. •
THAMES FOSSICKER
Like a hermit-crab among the winding roots,
His humpy’s two shaky walls of tin
Propped between the rockface and a sack,
He lived in a newspaper nest with coats and
hats
And innumerable empty bottles of “medicine” —
Whisky for colds, brandy for heart, rum for
his aching back.
Near by sang the rill, her siren’s voice
Threading his hoary brain with fossicker dreams,
Making his blood light as the moon’s feather;
In verminous rags he buried his toothy quartz
Mattocked, only he knew from what seams.
In the misty ranges under random weather.
Then: Come, Dad, they said, come with us,
And scooped him out and into the ambulance.
We’ll clean him up, give him a sober diet.
Vainly he raged at their cool efficient fuss.
They found no glitter worth a second glance
But gave him mattock and quartz to keep him
quiet.
The boom-town of a hundred pubs now wears
A brick and stone respectability
That seven bar-rooms can’t put down the hatch;
Glad to have shut the door on its wildcat
years,
But stirring when some old identity
By Act of Death, like a shadow, lifts the latch.
N.Z.
GLORIA RAWLINSON.
DARK RIDGE
Hold, verse, that image clear
d|ainst death-wounded day;
ridge with spear and spear
in sudden, grim array.
Call across that sky’s
wound the barbed spear-flight
of swans whose urgent cries
reach caverns of the night.
Your demon there define,
who, for an instant on
that final dark skyline
stands, burdened, then is gone.
Clench, verse, that image yet:
the journeying birds and man,
grim ridge in silhouette
since the World began.
N.S.W.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.


“Fly River”; The “Colonel” came out
of the jungle to meet the boat, but his
dog was not with him. That was so un-
usual as to elicit an inquiry. The Colonel
was brief. “Sulkin’. I booted him last
night.” “Y’ what ?” asked the astonished
Skipper, who knew the Colonel’s affec-
tion for his canine bundle of hair, slobber
and smells. “Cheated at poker,” the
Colonel explained. “Had my suspicions
that he looked at the hand I dealt the
billy-can, let it pass, but caught him right
in the act with the frying-pan’s hand.
Jungle or not, fellow can’t overlook these
things. Kicked him right out of the
camp. Oh, he’ll come round all right,
but shan’t take him on again at poker.
Moral weakness somewhere —no use
exposin’ the poor brute to temptation.”
* ♦ * *
“Old-timer”: We knew the boss was
baching, and when we heard the shot up
at the homestead we looked at each other.
Fleming went to the galley-door. “He’s
walkin’ round with a gun,” he reported.
“Musta seen a snake or somethin’.” He
came back to his breakfast. Another
shot echoed. Somebody looked out and
saw the boss on the homestead veranda,
Just as breakfast ended there was a third
shot. We’d just got to the horseyards
when the boss appeared. He gave a dead
rooster to Little Curl and said “Here,
take this to the cook. It’ll go well stewed.”
“You and Fleming,” the boss said, “get up
t’ the house an’ see if y’ can block the hole
I put in the big tank before all the water
goes. Pocketknife, get some of that sheet-
iron from the shed and nail it over the
front window.” He saw our looks. “The
flamin’ cat,” he said, “grabbed me chops
off the plate. Missed him with the first
an’ got the rooster. Then he jumped
him on the tank-stand. Missed him again.
Then he run inside an’ I was just in time
t’ miss him as he run across the winder! ”
* * * *
“Wilpa”: A couple of islands off the
S.A. coast which seem to escape mention
in school geography books are the Pages,
which lie at the entrance to Backstairs
Passage, the strait between the eastern
“Better put him in quarantine first.”
end of Kangaroo Island and the mainland,
The Pages began their existance as the
two wives of Nurrunduri, the Narrinyeri
cult-hero who came down the Darling
and the Murray creating the rivers as he
came. Round about Port Elliot the two
women had a major flirtation with another
cult-hero they met there, and Nurrunduri,
“I've told you before NOT to use
sewing-machine oil.”
annoyed at their unfaithfulness, went
on alone, creating the land as he went.
When his wives followed him, Nurrunduri
took a great leap and set to work creat-
ing Kangaroo Island (which was never
visited by aborigines until after the arrival
of the whites). The wives started to swim
after him, but he spotted them and turned
them into two rocky islets. The sheoaks
did not approve of his action, and ever
since, whenever there has been a wind,
the leaves of the trees have mourned for
the two dusky consorts of the cult-hero.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: At Queenscliff (Vic.)
a fishing-boat came in to the wharf with
four live albatrosses on board and the
story that when trolling for barracoota
outside Port Phillip Heads the men keep
hooking the birds. It’s no use letting .the
birds go because they keep on recatching
them, so they are kept in the boat until
the fishing is finished. Although the fliers
weigh 161 b. to 201 b. and have a wing-
span of 10ft, to 14ft., they are little
trouble on board as they are soon sea-
sick. The old sailorman’s fetish about
killing an albatross still exists —a visitor
wanted to buy a bird for a provincial
museum but he hadn’t a hope. They
were later taken out to sea and released
with the utmost care.
* * * *
“Rooster”: The Merino’s instinctive
liking for high country (B. 14/l/’53) is
easily explained. Primitive sheep were
mountaineers from necessity. They were
led in flocks by an experienced old ram,
and the life of the flock oftm depended
on the skill with which the individual
members copied the leader. With wolves,
jackals and other hungry wild beasts
swarming over primordial plains, blind
flight to the highlands was a frequent
occurrence. The habit of leaping from
the pens after shearing or dipping is a
wild survival of the past—the leader
jumps the bar and the rest do likewise,
even though there is no obstacle.
“Brid”: Bottle-
paper messages make
some extraordinary
voyages. In Tas-
mania several have
been washed up on
the beaches of
Anderson Bay, on
the north-east side.
Two years ago a
couple were picked
up within a few
feet of each other a
few miles out of
Bridport. One con-
tained a message
written by a soldier
on his way from
Launceston to the
1914-18 war and
dropped over the
ship’s side as he was
passing his mother’s
home at Beauty
Point. In the 35
years’ interval he had
returned, married
and become a grand-
father. Lately an-
other bottle was
found in the same
vicinity. It contained
messages from two
men of the Field
Artillery, on their
way to the front,
dated May 13,
1916. Names given were Driver
H. F. Holmes, No. 19284, 7th 8.A.C., of
28 Louisa-road, Balmain (N.S.W.), and
Driver M. McCarthy, No. 19325, also of
Sydney. The bottle itself was roughened
as though sandpapered from its journey-
ing. The soldier-lads asked that the
finder of the message write to them as
they were very lonely. There was no
indication of where the bottle was tossed
over,
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Of the cooks who ranged
the s.-w. of Queensland three decades ago,
some were artists and some were
atrocious, but they had in common a
wonderful array of nicknames, each
richly redolent of some idiosyncrasy.
There was the “Bishop,” so-named for
his passionate eloquence, which was such
that he could almost swear himself out
of jail; and there was “Pink Puddin’
Mick,” deriving his “title” from a habit
of coloring every culinary confection,
from boiled rice to blancmange, with
cochineal. “Pussyfoot Johnson” earned
his tag from his mysterious ability to
remain alcoholically exuberant when all
forms of stimulant were under lock
and key. Among a legion of others were
“Scandalous Graham” and the “Busted
Oven,” whose nicknames are self-
explanatory.
* * * *
“Marion Bay”; lan Mudie’s lines on
the wreck of the Ethel (B. 7/1/’53) took
me back nearly 50 years to when I was with
a now-defunct S.A. country paper. When
the barque piled up on the southern end
of Yorke Peninsula her company managed
to get ashore in the rough scrub country
and were later brought to Yorketown by
some settlers in the vicinity. I interviewed
the skipper-owner, a Norwegian, who was
considerably broken up over the loss of
his “sheep.” At an evening get-together
he was persuaded to tell us something of
his experiences after the wreck, and
impressions of the country on whose
shores he’d been so unfortunately thrust.
He described his drive through the scrub
in the four-wheeled wagonette: “One
thing I see look like alligator, but the
driver tell me he only a damgana.” Stuff
from the Ethel—potplants, organ, piano
and cabin furnishings—went into a good
many homes after the salvage sale. Her
skeleton lies not far from that of the
steamer Ferret, of piratical association.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“P.S.”; By the Calder Highway be-
tween Melbourne and Kyneton there’s a
gravestone, protected by railings, in a pad-
dock on the banks of the Campaspe
River. Legend varies: it is the grave
of a trooper killed in a skirmish with
bushrangers; or the trooper was
drowned saving one of his mates when
the river was in flood; or he fell
from a horse. All agree, however, that
the main character was a trooper from
the station at Carlsruhe, which flourished
during the “forty-niner” rush. He was a
trooper, all right, but history can be a
dull jade. He died in 1848 from natural
causes, and, there being no cemetery in
Kyneton at that time, where else could a
man be buried?
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Mick O’Mulga”: The cassowary as a
fighter (B. 31/12/’52)? On the Atherton
Tableland (Q.), I went out with a forestry
bloke to learn something about the local
timber-trees. As we slashed our way
through the tangles of lawyer-vines and
red-ash he showed me a bewildering
number of species, from pender to black-
plum and from scented-maple to black-
walnut. It was a relief when we came to
more open forest, and I showed my
appreciation by whistling. I was checked
with a sharp “Cut that out or you’ll have
all the cassowaries after us.” For a
demonstration we shinned up a candlenut-
tree with some low-growing branches. I
whistled some more, and within 10
minutes a pair of the birds appeared,
dodging through the trees and obviously
looking for a fight. They circled below
us, trying to find the enemy who was
issuing the challenge ; when they failed
they attacked every shrub within reach,
kicking and slashing it down with their
powerful legs. I stopped whistling, and
after a time they walked away. A few
months later, in New Britain, an old
man showed us the mark of a pet
“muruk” which had been allowed to grow
too old for safety ; the scar extended
from his hip to his knee.
* * * ♦
“Splodger”: Young Bill and his father
didn’t agree on all points, and eventually
the youngster cleared out and did pretty
well for himself in the city. When war
came he enlisted and, before embarking,
called at the old home. Things were
pretty stiff for a while until the old man
came to it with a run: “Any time you
think you’re pretty smart just for gettin’
out on your own, just remember I ran
away from home when I was two years
younger than you were.”
BELL-CALL OF WATTLE-BIRD
Hessian-harsh, raw
Guttural as crow’s caw—
Kwik kwok! . . . kwuk!
Transmuting nectar
Rowdily plundered:
Sweetly taken,
Roughly rendered —
Kwik kwok I . . . kwuk!
O he sang, once he sang—
Joyous bells rang;
Entranced I stood
As the echoing chimes
Pealed for the nectar
Deep in the flames
Yellow and red
Of the banksia’s fire,
Where plunged his quick beak
In the heart of desire.
Now I wait; I listen
Silently; hark! ,
From the flowering gums
His harsh call comes —
Kwik kwok / . . . kwuk!
But I wait; still I wait
That song I heard
Once, ah but once:
Bell-call of wattle-bird.
TASMANIA.
A. E. STURGES.
HOMESTEAD VISIT
“There’s a gate on your right where
the road turns left. Turn in there; the
homestead is about nine miles from that
gate, and the track forks a bit, but a
bloke went through this morning in a
truck. Follow his tracks and you can’t
miss it.”
So we were guided to the homestead.
After the long, straight miles of corru-
gated gravel, the twisting track of soft red
loam and the ambling pace it enforced
made a bloke realise what he loses when
he hustles. A perfect, clear morning, the
bimble-boxes seemed hung with leaves of
glass, and from them and the native
cypress the western bellbird taunted us
with invitations to stay. Here and there
the rust-red of a hop-bush lit up the
softer creamy-pink of flowering budda;
in more open patches ironwoods dotted
the carpet of golden everlastings, while
slightly aloof a couple of towering belah
guarded a leopard-wood, which, set
against a background of fiery red earth,
gave the laugh to those who will tell you
that the west of N.S.W. is drab.
We nibbled those miles to make them
last; then the scrub ended and the track
ran out beside the wall of the big tank,
yarran blooming along the edge of it, and
we stopped at the homestead-gate to the
inevitable chorus of kelpies and border-
collies.
We hadn’t been expected, but we
sat straight down to the best dinner for
days. The talk was as good ; so were the
books in the well-packed shelves.
The stroll afterwards showed up the
changes. The garden was only a sugges-
tion of what it had been in the flush days
of station help, though the trees planted
then carry the garden now; and an
engine-driven pump had replaced the old
windmill.
But down at the stables the changes
spoke loudest; wooden pegs still held dry
bridles that will not be taken down again,
and all the smells that go with the horse
had gone. Instead there were a Land
Rover, a Holden utility and a Chev. sedan,
which between them do the mustering,
cart the stores and eat up the long miles
to town.
Back into the homestead again for a
further yarn, a look at old photos which,
with the maple beams of the dining-
room and sundry beautiful furnishings,
stirred fading memories. Then, with a
dozen huge grapefruit tossed into the back
of the truck, we moved on.
Maybe next time there will be further
changes ; but whatever they may be it is
pretty certain that the best of the western
ways can never be mechanised.
THE BUNYIP.


Ordering sheriy, Qveefc or Pry P
is your finest toy
Tender
TENDERS are invited for purchase
of following surplus plant:
ITEM 1
Diesel Alternator Set 110 K.V.A.
440/254 volts 3 phase 50 cycle L.D.
& C. Ltd., Alternator direct coupled
to 4 cylinder Class VCB vertical four
stroke cycle 140 H.P. Ruston Diesel
engine at 600 r.p.rn. on bedplate
carrying pedestal bearing and exciter.
Complete with control panel and air
starting set. This set has run 3,350
hours.
ITEM 2
Diesel Alternator Set 30 K.V-A.
440 volts 3 phase 50 cycle A.E.C.
Alternator direct coupled to General
Motors Diesel Engine, radiator cool-
ing, electric starting on bedplate with
control panel. This unit has run
4,400 hours.
ITEMS 3 AND 4
Two Mark BGC Southern Cross
Diesel 40 H.P. Diesel Engines.
All above plant has been overhauled
and is in first-class condition.
The highest, or any tender, not
necessarily accepted.
ANGLO - WESTRALIAN MINING
PTY. LIMITED,
55 Colin Street, Perth, W.A.
Box R. 1258, G.P.O.
To ALL Six Continents
FLY BRITISH * «.o.u.
Fly in superb comfort, by luxurious 8.0.A.C.
airliners to any of 51 countries. Fly swiftly,
smoothly, at heights where the weather is
always fine. Delicious meals and
the excellent meal-time drinks
are free. No tips, either, for
courteous service. Frequent
services by 4-engined 8.0.A.C.
3-3
dfs
pressurized airliners cover a world-wide
network of routes. 33 years
international flying experience.
Book from Sydney to INDONESIA
MALAYA • HONG KONG • JAPAN
CEYLON • INDIA • PAKISTAN
MIDDLE EAST . AFRICA • EUROPE
GREAT BRITAIN • U.S.A.
CANADA • CENTRAL AND SOUTH
AMERICA • BERMUDA
8.0.A.C. —leads with the
Comet services now operating
(jOtos
Johannesburg -
and Singapore
world-wide 8.0..
London, Colombo London,
London, are forerunners o<
K.C. Jetliner services.
Information & Bookings ; Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., ( 8.0.A.C.
General Agents in Australia) at Sydney, Melbourne, Bnsbane, Darwtn
from Travel Agents in all cities and towns .
FlY ■ BOH
8.0.A.C. TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
British overseas airways corporation airways
ltd., TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. AND SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS^
Business. Rollery. Etc.
"PLANS" THAT TURN TO ASHES
In Soviet Russia the sternest
controls have been imposed on
the individual’s way of living in
order to restrict personal con-
sumption and to leave the largest
possible surplus of production
for the creation of capital goods
and reproductive assets. In Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, by
contrast, the conception of the
Welfare State has placed in the
hands of the people unprece-
dented spending-money, as well
as unprecedented leisure, with
the result that consumer-demand
has increased greatly at a time
when many types of production
have fallen below pre-war level.
The upshot of post-war
politics and economics in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland has been
that we have had too little
surplus production over con-
sumer-demand with which to
create new assets of a productive
nature. We have had too little
real saving out of which to create
capital and capital assets. And
with this failure to save and to
make new investments in
industry and essential services it
is daily becoming harder to
maintain productivity and trans-
port, because tools and wheels
are progressively becoming more
inadequate and worn-out.
In the conduct of the cold war
it is in Russia’s interest to see
that we continue on our way of
underproduction, overconsump-
tion and inadequate saving. We
are running-down industrially.
More than seven years after the
end of the war we have not made
up the lag in capital construction
caused by the war ; instead of
attempting to do it in a straight-
forward way we have side-
tracked the problem and have
vastly complicated it. When the
years of war-waste demanded
that we should work harder to
repair the damage, we gave our-
selves a 40-hour week. We went
on with ideas of a “new order”
that were completely muddled
and impractical. The chief
agency for the promotion and
implementation of these ideas
was the “Labor” party, into
which had got the devil of Com-
munism. The Australian Labor
Party, still Communist-driven or
not, is still impenitent about its
mistakes, still a believer in the
class-war, still a party that will
co-operate with none but its own
one-eyed kind. Dr. Evatt is still
the prophet of boom and bust,
of “full employment” regardless
of the results of that “employ-
ment.” The “Labor” party so
studiedly disregards the lessons
of experience that there is every
reason to question its sincerity
and its independence of
traitorous Communist influence.
In any case the economic
medicine which Stalin
administers at home is of a very
different brand from that which
his disciples in Australia recom-
mend. Soviet policy is to dis-
rupt and weaken the economies
of Western countries, and the
policy of the “Labor” party in
Australia, which has resulted in
our present underproduction,
overconsumption and capital
impoverishment, has been just
the thing that the Soviet has been
advocating. Our post-war
economic policy, particularly be-
cause of the way the 40-hour
week has been worked, has
reduced our standards of indus-
trial output to a startling extent,
left our transport system ram-
shackle, and hamstrung our
defence-potential.
Greater production is an
essential in Australia. We need
it to look after consumer
demand and capital - works
requirements, as well as to
provide an adequate surplus for
export to provide us with over-
seas currency. We need it in
order to reduce costs —with
reduced costs and greater man-
strengthened to £39 155., yielding
4 p.c. on the present 8 p.c. div.
basis. It seems a secure rate, in
present circumstances, whilst the
asset-backing behind the shares
should be much in excess of
book - values,, according to
present-day prices, even if “fair”-
rents legislation prevents the
bank from getting a fitting return
from its real estate. For holding
purposes ’Wales shares look an
attractive proposition.
B.H.P. shares have steadied at
just under 445., returning 3.8 p.c.
on the present div. This is
“We Want y'r best diamond-ring for me future son-in-law.”
hour output it would be safe to
extend credit for projects of
national import which it is at
present economically dangerous
to attempt. We need it to sup-
port the growing burden of social
security, which increases con-
sumer - demand while doing
nothing at all to add to
production. We need it in
order to lessen the incidence of
taxation, which at present is a
grave burden cm all, but parti-
cularly upon the essential
investor class.
Steady Share Prices
The smallness of the lift in the
basic wage in key States has been
a further stabilising factor in
sharemarket tone. Though there
have been falls as well as rises
in particular stocks since 1953
began—Tooth shares are an
example: after rising swiftly to
765. they reacted to 725., but
were still above the December
price of 68s. 3d. —share prices
generally remain stronger and
steadier than they have been for
a considerable time.
A good deal of sorting-out of
values and yields is, however,
still going on. The future of a
number of soundly-established
concerns is fairly well indicated
by general economic indexes.
Other concerns, however, often
have their own internal problems
of management and finance to
cope with.
Bank of New South Wales
shares, for so long around the
book-value of their net tangible
backing (£36 14s. 4d.), have
another long-term case, with
development outlay stijl standing
in the way of a liberal dividend
policy. Production conditions
are a great deal easier than they
were two years ago, but costs
(and taxation policy in respect of
depreciation allowances) are
obstacles. Output of pig-iron
and steel are at record propor-
tions ; the co. is seeking overseas
markets for its pig-iron.
An indication of conditions in
the domestic - appliance and
similar trades is given by
the fall in the production
of electric-motors of under one-
horsepower. The Australian
monthly average for 1951-52
rose to 42,353 (from 38,791 in
1950-51). In July of 1952 the
figure was 31,872, in August
27,918, in September 28,317 and
in October 39,130. (In October,
1951, the comparable figure was
48,963). Motors of under one-
horsepower go into refrigerators,
vacuum-cleaners, sweepers, etc.,
as well as into small workshops.
One of the largest manufac-
turers of fractional-horsepower
motors is Email, Ltd., which
makes a variety of refrigerators,
stoves, washing-machines, etc.
After a sharp slump in demand
during mid-1952 it has found
sales to be picking up. The co.
built up its finances solidly over
the past few years, preparing for
conditions such as those it has
been passing through over the
last 12 months. Email’s ss.
shares have kept remarkably
steady at around 135., and yield
4.8 p.c. on a p.c. div. basis.
(In 1951-52, when trading condi-
tions changed about half-way
through, earnings represented
27.3 p.c. on ord. capital). The
co. usually has a lot of money
eomjng to it from the retail trade.
A solid enterprise dealing in
essential equipment (notably
Lister sheep-shearing machines)
for the rural industries is Dangar,
Gedye and Malloch. Last sale
of its £1 ords. was at 41s. If the
scrip can be got at 425. 6d. the
yield would be just under 6 p.c.
on a 12| p.c. div. basis (reduced
from 15 p.c. in 1952, though
profits were equal to 34 p.c. on
ord. capital in 1951-52). The co.,
in its last report, took an
enlightened view of the changed
economic circumstances, and it is
unlikely to have underestimated
any of the problems it may meet
during the current year.


From a banker’s diary
Wednesday: Mr .mmmmmm , an oversea
buyer representing British and Far
Eastern companies, was introduced
by one of our Commercial Relations
Officers. He asked to be put in
touch with manufacturers of
certain goods.
I m
Local knowledge helps
All overt Australia, the “Wales” has branches
and agencies through which we are able to keep
observant eyes on local conditions. In the case
of Mr. WSSSSSS2M, we were able to arrange for
immediate introductions to manufacturers who
produce the goods he needs. So we were of
assistance both to the overseas buyer and to
our customers and thus helped to increase
Australian exports.
You, too, should consult and use—-
I is 4 o*
\ \Y^
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FI RST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALKS WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A52iBC
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
C. 0. GALE. STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. G. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
"It's a knockout!"
**<**<**<*^ e; CAW-CAWs aW^Q^
Whether “Dreadnought” Davey is battling for the cruiser-
weight championship of Upper Mombasa or leading his crazy
gang on a rocket flight to the moon, each weekly adventure
in the laugh-filled “Dulux Show” is a knockout in sure-fire
entertainment for the whole family.
“The Dulux Show” is pro-
duced and presented for the
makers of Dulux Paints by
the Macquarie Broadcasting
Service.
THE
DULUX SHOW
Wednesday nights at 8.
2GB • 3AW • 4BH • SDN • 6IX • 7HO
2HR 2CA 2WL 2LF 2LT 2MG 2MW 2PK 3CV 4BU 4GY 68^1
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Nash’s Chickens
For months New Zealand’s
ex-“wizard” of finance and
Socialist leader, Walter Nash,
has been going around the
country crying “Wolf!” and try-
ing to frighten Maorilanders with
the spectre of unemployment.
Yet there are today plenty of
unfilled jobs, and prosperity is
moving in the right direction
again, after the shocks of the
past year.
Poverty and unemployment
have no existence except in Mr.
Nash’s warped imagination;
there is no wolf at the door or
anywhere in sight. The Socialist
Jeremiah and his followers have
failed utterly in their efforts to
upset the peace of mind of easy-
going Maorilanders, and the
country’s economy, with all its
shortcomings, has continued to
flourish for the benefit of the
average man.
The “Welfare State” is still able
to carry its heavy load of £H
million weekly in social-security
benefits, and the Holland Gov-
ernment, after little more than
three years in office, still hopes
to attain its goal of greater
freedom for enterprise. Mr.
Holland has kept his balance in
spite of the worst industrial
upheaval for many years, the
super-boom in wool, and last
year’s record import boom. Fie
has encountered setbacks no one
could foresee when he came into
power and has found the going
far more difficult than anyone
ever anticipated; but he is
undaunted by the fact that he
has been unable to undo in a
short time the consequences of
14 years of Socialist red-tape,
experimentation and misrule.
He has not allowed himself to
be rattled by Socialist yelping
and efforts to beat him with the
Socialist stick at every oppor-
tunity. Mr. Nash’s talk of an
“appalling muddle” is gross
exaggeration as applied to con-
ditions in Maoriland, and is
made worse by his gloomy fore-
casts that this is the forerunner
of unemployment. Even with-
out using methods freely applied
by the Socialists, such as reduc-
ing the length of the working
week, loading industry with
costly rates for overtime (and
weekend work, and extending
controls in all directions, New
Zealand is likely to experience
overfull employment for a long
time to come.
Accumulated demands for
national and industrial develop-
ment make up a formidable pro-
gramme which should keep all
employable Maorilanders fully
occupied for at least a genera-
tion. New Zealand has the repu-
tation of being one of the easiest
countries in the world for
workers, and the Socialists are
only making themselves look
silly when they keep on harping
on the danger that men might
soon be walking the streets in
quest of something to do. It’s as
distorted a view of the future as
one could possibly imagine, yet
Mr. Nash said, on New Year’s
Eve; “The fact must be faced
that we see before us a lowered
standard of living, some unem-
ployment and economic distress
if the Government persists in its
misguided policy.”
As Maorilanders danced out
the Old Year, and had a glimpse
of better times ahead, Mr. Nash
could see nothing but “insecurity
and uncertainty” in his world of
make-believe. He hadn’t realised
that balance was being restored
and the general outlook was
better, after last year’s severe
shaking through premature lift-
ing of exchange and import
controls. Although N.Z. got into
payments difficulties, the goods
put an end to shortages of nearly
everything, and the public reaped
the benefit in lower prices.
A short while earlier business-
leaders rebuked Mr. Nash for-
going about predicting a slump
while traders were wrestling with
problems of excess stocks, buyer-
resistance, tight credit, lack of
forward orders and inflated costs
—all, except the last, of a more-
or-less temporary nature. This
wasn’t the time, they said, to be
trying to upset confidence
deliberately, and they made it
clear to Mr. Nash and his crowd
that the best service they could
do to New Zealand would be to
stay in Wellington and keep their
mouths shut.
When Socialists in New
Zealand, as in Australia, pose
as guardians of sound money,
the standard of living and the
interests of small taxpayers, or
when they grow indignant over
monetary trends, above all infla-
tion, they are brazen impostors
who have done more harm in
these directions, by subtle means,
than is generally realised. Their
spendthrift and extravagant
policies were the breeding-
ground for a lot of the troubles
of the post-war years, in the
fields of credit, production and
employment.
The Supermarket
If only because it’s a step
ahead of other methods of trad-
ing, New Zealand has surren-
dered, or been converted, to the
idea of the supermarket. With
all its virtues and vlices, this
method of easy and quicker
merchandising has gained a
strong foothold, and is challeng-
ing modem department-store
methods, as well as older forms
of over-the-counter service in
Maoriland.
The grocery trade has been
leading the way, but the experi-
ence of other countries, particu-
larly U.S.A., where help-yourself
is now the rage, suggests that no
form of retailing of more-or-less
standardised types of goods can
be regarded as immune. The
catch is, of course, that help-
yourself can be carried too far
when plentiful supplies of attrac-
tive goods are spread out in
dazzling array as a temptation
to all and sundry.
Folk with easy consciences
find it hard to resist the urge to
take more than they want to pay
for, and ingenuity or vigilance is
needed to restrain those who
aren’t above stowing things into
pockets, handbags or other
places out of sight before they
pass the cash-register. It takes a
team of inspectors or floor-
walkers to curb this sort of thing.
Shoplifting, however, is an old
vice, and may not be a great deal
more prevalent in self-service
stores; it was certainly getting
away with a lot of stuff in Maori-
land before this opportunity
came its way. The loss is much
more than counterbalanced by
the advantages of supermarkets,
which are that they push up turn-
overs and reduce staff and unit
costs ; that they save customers
time and leave them free to take
their pick; and that they bring
more orders to manufacturers
through growth in trade.
One of the obstacles is space,
seeing that the supermarket is a
one-floor store and can’t be easily
accommodated in the heart of
cities. When eye-appeal means
so much there’s a challenge to
packers to be more enterprising
in the matter of wrappers, which
might make all the difference to
profits. Novelty and color count
a lot.
Capital-starvation
Whether a country is young
or old, there’s no getting away
from the hard fact that accumu-
lation of capital is possible only
as a result of personal saving by
individuals; and Maorilanders
will have to face up to this in
the big effort to overcome
capital-starvation, which is today
a barrier to development on all
sides.
It would be easy to compile a
list of public and semi-public
undertakings which would
swallow up anywhere between
£250 million and £4OO million at
today's costs over the next
decade or so, and this would take
no account of private industrial
investment, for manufacturing
and rural expansion, which will
also run into a huge sum. Yet
the trend of savings lately has
levelled out, and if the swing
goes much further the rank-and-
file will be drawing on reserves
to maintain present consumer-
demands—a hopeless position
from the viewpoint of a country
in dire need of capital and still
largely in an undeveloped state.
Proud as Maorilanders are of
their high standard of living,
they can’t afford to sacrifice
future growth to present-day
enjoyment, appetites and easy-
going conditions of work to the
extent they are doing. The habit
of thrift, once strong in the little
country, has suffered a decline
under the influence of Socialist
theories, doctrine and policies,
and the most disturbing aspect is
that there’s no general realisa-
tion at the moment of the danger
of the drift. Incentive is weak
under tax demands which grow
heavier with every new twist in
the upward cost - price - wage
spiral, and prospects of relief in
this direction cannot be con-
sidered bright when the “Welfare
State” is taking such a toll of
incomes, and general depart-
mental spending stubbornly
resists all efforts to rein it in.
Many Maorilanders hope for
salvation by reviving borrowing
from John Bull, as up to the end
of the ’twenties when invaluable
assets were created out of
sterling millions, but the
Socialists are against any move
to increase the external debt,
even if it were possible, which it
doesn’t appear to be.
How Socialist cranks expect to
maintain present standards of
prosperity, let alone improve
them, on a basis of financial
isolation, combined with under-
production and overconsump-
tion, is something they have
never been able to make dear to
anyone else and don’t seem to
understand themselves ; but they
still hold blindly to their course.
To the more enlightened of
Maorilanders it is clear that there
is only one real solution, and
that is to embark on an intensive
drive to build up savings again,
not only because internal pros-
perity depends upon it but also
because this is the best contri-
bution M.L. can make to sterling-
area development as a whole.
Internal saving must pave the
way for new borrowing abroad,
and N.Z. must be prepared to
mark time to some extent, so far
as luxury and semi-luxury spend-
ing goes, to allow part of profits,
wages and salaries to be set aside.
It is a case of regaining a healthy
balance between short-term and
long-term demands which is long
overdue.


mV
i^Grii
•-. -i -/>,
T/je only Trustee Company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
Slates Victoria, New South
Wales and Queensland.
UNION TRUSTEE uses "Local Knowledge"
to benefit Your Estate
THERE is one exclusive feature of Union Trustee
Company service that can be of direct benefit to your
estate. This is the “local knowledge” gained by having
offices in three capital cities. Each office has its individual
Board of Directors, each its own highly skilled staff of
experts. Thus, whether an estate has interests in more
than one State, or is concentrated in a single area, the
Company is ideally equipped to act as Executor, Trustee
or Attorney.
In appointing Union Trustee as your Executor you are
assured of continuity of service—and charges are
exceedingly moderate for the services rendered.
A senior officer of the Company will gladly explain in
detail the wide variety of services it performs.
Call or write for your copy of the booklet, Important
Facts” —which will be forwarded, post free.
The
(Incorporated in Victoria)
333 Collins St..
UNION
COMPANY OF AUS
TRUSTEE
TRALIA LTD.
(Established 1885)
Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton UT12U
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
iaubmans Industries, Ltd.
Taubmans and Subsidiaries.*
t Dividends
Pref. , To Re- Re-
‘Pt.. Profit. 5 p.c. serves, serves.t
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
8. .207,231 5000 17J = 96,390 105,841 693,475
Net addition reserves, £8056 .. 696,531
9. .171,617 5000 17C= 100,554 66,063 762,594
Share-premiums, £130,029 .. .. 892,623
Add reduction goodwill, etc., £987.. 893,610
Unexplained reduction res., £9799.. 883,811
0..245,424 5000 20 = 134,071 106,353 990,164
Add reduction goodwill, etc., £2369 .. 992,533
1.. 299,184 5000 15 = 142,967 151,217 1,143,750
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 1,128,750
Share premiums, £6044 .. .. 1,134,794
Unexplained reductions, £7OOO net .. 1,127,794
2. .278,226 5000 15 = 173,372 99,854 1,227,648
After eliminating outside interests, t After deduct-
ing goodwill, etc., £18.917, written off in 1951.
Jl things considered, the latest accounts
f the vigorous and enterprising Taubman
roup—parent holding co. and 10
perating subsidiaries scattered through-
ut Australia and New Zealand —present
pleasing and encouraging picture. The
rganisation, in which Pinchin, Johnson
nd Associates, the English paint people,
re interested, is one of the biggest paint
nd industrial-chemical concerns in Aus-
alasia, and it has built up an export
rade as well, which is to be further
eveloped, if costs permit.
The big post-war programme of expan-
ion, now nearing completion, has been
ery profitable. Since mid-1946 share-
olders have put up £1,018,639 —£756,943
apital and £261,696 share-premiums—
nd have had divs. averaging 16.6 p.c.,
yhile £592,013 net has been added to
eserves from surplus earnings, etc. Over
he same period the amount coming to
he bank and trade creditors, etc., has
ncreased by £1,441,226, and £150,000
tas been raised on debentures. The total
»f £3,200,000-odd went £649,900-odd into
ixed assets, £2,000,000-odd into stocks
nd £579,500-odd into book-debts and
:ash.
Last term a new £250,000-factory,
Jaimed to be the most modern of its kind
n the southern hemisphere, came into
production at Yeronga, near Brisbane,
nut too late to benefit the year’s figures.
start has also been made on another
lew factory at Sunshine, near Melbourne,
md a further £300,000 of debenture
money is to be put up by the A.M.P.
to help finance the work. The Govern-
ment recently resumed the co.’s Lonsdale-
street, Melbourne, warehouse at a
figure yet to be finally agreed upon. A
small but compact installation at Perth
is almost complete, and the N.Z. sub-
sidiary recently took over part of the
business of Best Paints, Ltd., in Auckland.
A surprising feature is that the drop
(£20,958) in last term’s combined net
earnings of the group was not more pro-
nounced. The figure includes only nine-
months trading for Taubmans (N.S.W.)
Pty., the largest subsidiary, and Taubmans
Chemicals Pty.—it claims to be the biggest
producer of D.D.T. in the Common-
wealth —whose activities were affected by
drought in country areas. Operating
costs remained on the up-grade* and
stocks were written down by an unstated
amount to bring certain raw materials —
chiefly linseed-oil, resins and tinplate—
into line with current market-values. On
the demand side Government statistics
show that production of paints, etc., held
well for the first half of the term, fell
sharply during the third quarter, and
began to pick up again toward the close
of accounts.
After allowing unstated amounts for
depreciation and taxation, group profit
was figured at £278,226, which was enough
to pay the pref. div. and show an attrac-
tive 23.6 p.c. on average ord. capital
as against 30.8, 35.8, 29 and 36.7 p.c.
back to 1948. So nothing had to be
strained to repeat the 15 p.c. div. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) the year’s profit was 11.2 p.c.,
which suggests, among other things, that
assets are well worth the book-value and
that the pref. and debenture moneys are
earning a lot more than their keep.
The year’s net growth in stocks was
£613,440 and in fixed assets £205,573;
Taubmans, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital.. 674,591 966,923 1,239,515 1,255,810
Outside
interests . . 154,368 148,311 153,811 158,198
Mortgages .. 150,000
Overdraft .. 129,174 15,639 115,023 499,291
Creditors* .. 565,897 825,474 958,597 1,050,000
Exchange a/e 54,785 56,480 60,020 64,540
Staff fund .. - 15,000 15,000
Final divs. . . 64,642 90,977 73,638 104,024
Freeholds .. 394,371 436,815 496,783 620,748
Plant . . 331,783 372,090 425,538 507,146
Stocks . . 1,172,591 1,598,156 1,883,178 2,496,613
Debtors, etc. 465,848 644,934 896,349 856,942
Cash, etc. .. 41,458 41,973 42,512 48,062
* Includes provision for taxation.
To help meet the outlay £150,000 was
raised on mortgage debentures, £384,268
was added to the overdraft, £91,403 to
the amount coming to trade creditors,
etc., and book-debts were reduced by
£39,407. The slip of £51,088 in the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£1,697,326,
excluding exchange account and staff fund)
was due entirely to expenditure on fixed
assets.
The market, which has always had a
high opinion of the scrip, sums up the
co.’s prospects by pricing the f.-p. ss.
ords. at 16s. as against 13s. a couple of
months ago. The immediate return at
16s. is 4.7 p.c. on a 15 p.c div, basis.
The 5 p.c. prefs. at 19s. yield 5.2 p.c.
Net tangible cover is £24 16s. Bd. prefs.
and 10s, 4d. ords.
Coote and Jorgensen, Ltd.
t —— Dividends —>
f —Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 7 p.c. 5 p.c. Ords. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
1946.. 8,413 1400 10 p.c. = 4,000 16,043
From inner reserves, net £13,616 .. 29,659
Revaluation reserve, £70,147 .. 99.806
Reserves capitalised, £40,000 .. 69,806
1947.. 9,226 1400 10 p.c. = 4,296 63,335
Share-issue exes., £8852 . . .. 54,483
1948.. 37.129 1400 2161 10 p.c. = 20,945 67,106
Share premiums, £22,750 .. .. 89,856
Share-issue exes., £1627 .. . . 88,229
1949.. 44.391 1400 3425 10 p.c. = 25,589 102,206
1960.. 48,214 1400 5000 10 p.c. = 30,000 114,020
Share-issue exes., £11,250 .. .. 102,770
1951.. 61.512 1400 5000 8 p.c. = 37,315 120,567
Share-issue exes., £18,750 .. .. 101,817
1952.101,946 1400 5000 4 p.c. = 30,000 167,363
* After deducting intangibles, now £57,885.
The drop in the div. over the last couple
of years is due not to any inability to
pay a higher rate, but to the need to con-
serve the co.’s own resources to help
finance extension of production into a
new field, namely manufacture and
assembly of complete transmission-units
—full-gearing equipment —for passenger
cars, trucks and tractors. This is a major
motor-engineering development in Aus-
tralia, and a big new factory, with a
production-capacity of 80,000 transmis-
sion-units per annum, is being erected at
Fairfield, near Sydney, for the purpose,
and is expected to come into operation
during 1953.
For these and other reasons it is diffi-
cult to assess shareholders’ dividend pros-
pects over the next few years. But the
less-immediate outlook for the under-
taking is an encouraging one, provided
wage and other costs over which the
management has no control don’t get out
of hand. Meanwhile the venture calls
for, and deserves, adequate tariff protec-
tion. It takes time for new money in-
vested in fixed assets of this kind to
develop full earning-power, and some
dislocation and expense in transfer from
the old factory at Alexandria to the new
one at Fairfield is inevitable.
Since inception 25 years age, the co.
has been engaged in manufacture and
distribution of a wide range of auto-
motive components and in general-
engineering construction and repair work,
and it has strong connections throughout
Australia and New Zealand. Share-
holders had a run of steady 10 p.c. divs.
for the nine years to 1950; the rate
dropped to 8 p.c. in 1951 and to 4 p.c. last
term for reasons already explained. De-
velopment, sluggish until 1947, has been
rapid over the last five years, during
which those on the register put up
£1,533,000 of fresh share capital, lifting
the total to £1,633,000 in 20,000 first 7 p.c.
and 100,000 second 5 p.c. prefs. and
1,513,000 ords., the last 763,000 of which
were put out at par shortly before the
close of last accounts.
Turnover continued to expand last
term, and so did net earnings. After
allowing £60,000 (up £19,500) for depreci-
ation and £96,000 (up £38,396) for taxa-
tion, the profit was £40,434 stronger at
£101,946. It was a creditable perform-
ance considering the trend of cost, de-
velopments in the motor trade and the
fact that a lot of money was represented
by assets that have not yet had an oppor-
tunity to contribute to the pool. The
£101,946 was sufficient to pay the pref.
divs. and show 12.8 p.c. ®n the £750,000
of ord. capital at work for over 11 months
of the term, or 6.3 p.c. on ord. capital
as it now stands.
The year’s growth in total assets was
£1,641,853, of which additions to free-
holds (up £314,971) and plant, etc. (up
£781,287) accounted for £1,096,258, stocks
for £461,930 and debtors’ balances for
£64,915:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
£ , £ £ £
Paid capital .. 420,000’420,000 870,000 1,638,000
Overdraft .. 89,102 201,283 198,104.768,392
Creditors, etc.* 111,589 114,545 185,421 480,218
Annexe liability 203,957 158,313 187,162 110,699
Final div. .. 14,089 15,000 25,315
Land and build-
ings . . . . 75,349 75,349 183,421 498,392
Plant, etc. .. 416,686 448,331 645,908 1,427,195
Shares .. .. 1,675 1,675 1,675 1,675
Stocks . . .. 344,360 339,458 470,720 932,650
Debtors . . .. 102,873 158,348 234,845 299,760
Intangibles .. 27,979 27,885 39,185 57,885
* Includes provision for taxation.
To meet the outlay shareholders put up
£763,000, £570,288 was added to the
overdraft and £294,797 to the amount
coming to trade creditors, etc.
More plant has yet to be installed at
Fairfield, and a lot more money will be
needed for this and other purposes. Since
the ord. scrip now stands at a discount
in the market, an appeal to those on the
register for more share capital is out of
the question at the moment. The
intention is to rely upon bank
accommodation until such time a.s
conditions in the money market permit
the position to be rectified. It is antici-
pated that the overdraft will, at its peak
period, exceed present subscribed capital,
the board says. Much will depend upon
the amount and type of fixed or term
capital than the co. is finally able to
raise.
The price of the f.-p. £1 ords., which
fluctuated between 21s. and 16s. 6d. over
the last nine months, stood at 18s. 3d.
last week. The return at 18s. 3d. would
be 5.4 p.c. on a 5 p.c. distribution, which,
together with the pref. divs., would call
for £82,050, or £19,896 less profit than
was earned last term. The first and
second prefs., at 265. 6d. and 19s. 3d.
respectively, each yield 5.2 p.c. Net
tangible cover at June 30, 1952, was £9O
firsts, £l7 16s. seconds and 225. Bd. ords.
Pacific Chenille-Craft, Ltd.
(and Subsidiary)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£, £ £ £
1948.. 64,929 20 p.c. = 41,333 23,596 128,290
Unexplained addition, £591 . . . . 128,809
Added Intangibles, £54,210 .. . . 74,599
1949.. 73,014 20 p.c. = 56,000 17,014 91,613
Reserves capitalised, £120,000 .. ) q ofes
1950.. 87,642 12J p.c. = 50,000 37,647 )
1951.. 82,650 12i „ ~ 50,000 32,650 41,905
1952. . 24,288 Nil 24,288 66,193
* After deducting intangibles, £79,210 at SO/6/’52,
and paying final div.
“In all the circumstances the co. is
weathering the storm remarkably well,”
the chairman says, and the figures sup-
port the claim. The abrupt contraction
of £58,362 (70.6 p.c.) in last term’s net
earnings and the absence of a div. were
the direct result of the flood of imports
and its effect upon production—especially
in the textile industry—and upon trade
and credit generally and the need to
conserve the co.’s resources.
The year opened well, and in August,
1951, shareholders put up £200,000 of
fresh capital, lifting the total on the
register to £600,000. This timely addition
to the co.’s own funds was to help finance
completion of the new factory at New-
castle, which came into operation only
three months before the books closed, as
well as additions and extensions to the
co.’s other plants at Alexandria, Goulburn
and Yass. Then wholesalers and retailers
became overstocked, credit tightened,
selling-prices eased and consumer-resist-
ance increased, as it always does under
such circumstances, buyers hoping to
come in lower down. “They [the co.’s
customers] simply could not trade with
us and were unable to take up their com-
mitments,” the board’s report says. That
meant all-round curtailment of produc-
tion. and some of the plant was closed
down for a time and staff was reduced.
The subsidiary, Australian Towel Weav-
ing Mills Pty., also suffered a severe set-
back, but was able to switch production
to new lines and a “satisfactory result
was achieved.”
Turnover, gross earnings and exes, are
not broadcast. But after allowing
£28,588 (up £4027) for depreciation,
£25,218 (down £35,891) for taxation and
taking stocks into account at or below
replacement cost, net earnings were put
at £24,288, equal to a wink over 4 p.c.
on capital compared with 20.6 p.c. and
21.9 p.c. for the two preceding years.
Shareholders were passed by, money
being wanted in the business. For the
four preceding boom years divs. averaged
16.2 p.c., sweetened with £120,000 of
bonus-scrip, which came out of the share-
premium reserve.
Moreover, the management was able to
reduce stocks (down £107,403) and
lighten the amount coming to trade
creditors, etc. (down £166,856), which
suggests that stocks had been reasonably
well bought:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. .. £400,000 £400,000 £600,000
Overdraft . . . . 77,339 396,622 430,501
Sundry creditors* .. 158,772 312,126 145,270
Final div S... . . 80,000 30,000
Freeholds, etc. .. 46(942 66,357 88,177
Leasehold .. .. 5,350 6,579 11,928
Plant, etc 187,469 168,376 239,969
Stock 372,462 785,900 678,497
Debtors 112,719 152,843 222,454
Cash 424 598 939
Intangibles .. .. 89,210 84,210 79,210
* Include/ provision for taxation.
The year’s net addition to fixed assets
was £98,762 (mainly on account of the
Newcastle factory) and to book-debts
£69,611 —the co. was able to nurse
customers on extended credit, a policy
which is now proving fruitful, the board
says. To do all this the co. went to its
bankers for an extra £33,879, besides
gathering the fresh share capital already
mentioned.
Since the close of accounts all the co.’s
factories have been working at full pro-
duction. Together with the less-steep-
wage and other costs gradient, and the
fact that there is little direct competition
from comparable imported chenille goods,
this augurs well for the current term’s
result. Meanwhile, more equipment,
already on order, is to be installed at the
cotton-spinning mill and the dye-house
at Goulburn, where a cotton-weaving
piecegoods plant is also to be set up.
It all looks like the husbanding of re-
sources and a comparatively modified
dividend policy. What the co.’s long-term
prospects are will partly depend upon
capricious fashion.
The price of the f.-p. ss. shares, which
fell from 7s. 6d. early in 1952 to 4s. 6d.
in August last, stood at ss. 7d. last week.
The immediate return at ss. 7d. would be


The "Curvilinear" Ore Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin &
Prices
m
m
Simple,
Reliable
and
Efficient
We are the Patentees and sole manufacturers of this renowned Table,
Classifiers, “Everlasting” Steam Blow-off valves, and “Abbot” Water
Filters. All classes of Tools, explosives and accessories supplied.
Sole Agents for George Ellison Limited, Birmingham, Electrical
Switchgear, etc., and Rapid Magnetic Machines Ltd., Birmingham,
manufacturers of Magnetic Ore Separators and Magnetic Lifting
Equipment.
Guthridge Pty. Limited
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
$
“rCs
VH
" i:
r
-2U
fit
c^-
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
K 8.114.18
(i/rSi
OLIVER
authorized
T
rJ
5K
OuVtM
ilSt? '4
OA 26
• OLIVER 'AD'
This Oliver has plenty of power
at the drawbar for all the
regular farm jobs and many
tougher ones, too. The ‘AD’
keeps going in soil conditions
and on hillsides that only a
fine crawler can tackle —gets
your work done when you want
it done. Drawbar h.p. 33.1.
Pounds pull 6,940. Belt h.p.
40.6.
• OLIVER No. 8 BALER
This outstanding wire-tie fully
automatic Oliver ‘Balemaster’
has a performance unmatched
by any other hay baler. Oliver-
produced bales are rated the
best in the field. Efficient
after-sales service stands be-
hind every Baler. Order your
Baler through your Oliver dis-
tributor now for 1953 season.
OLIVER DISTRIBUTORS:
Q’LAND: U.K. and Dominion Motors, 365-379 Wickham St., Bris-
bane. N.S.W.; Britstand Distributors, Ltd., 56-64 Gardeners Bead,
Mascot. VIC.: Queen’s Bridge Motor & Eng. Co. Pty., Ltd., 31-43
Queen’s Bridge St., Melbourne. S.A.: Elder Smith & Co., Ltd.,
27-35 Currie St., Adelaide. W.A.: Skipper Bailey Motor Co.,
Ltd., 900 Hay St., Perth. TAS.: Queen’s Bridge Motor & Eng.
Co. Pty. Ltd., 72 Federal St., Hobart. N.Z.: F. W. Smith Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1623, Wellington. NEW GUINEA: New Guinea Co. Ltd.
OLIVER
TRACTORS AND
FARM MACHINERY
Your Sign...
For the Finest
in Farm Machinery
You cannot buy better than Oliver. Every
Oliver product has the “in-built” quality that
means, for you, years of dependable honest ser-
vice. Oliver tractors and farm machinery are
backed by an efficient Australia-wide organi-
sation pledged to give you the ‘after-sales’ ser-
vice and replacement parts you need, when you
need them. Choose your Oliver requirements
from the fine range of crawler and wheel
tractors and farm machinery.
STOP PRESS
NEWS!
Today's Biggest
Tractor Bargain *
♦OLIVER 90 —the famous hard-
lugging 4 cylinder Model 90 kero,
tractor —is ready for you for this
season’s bigger seedings. The
Oliver 90 needs no “write-up” to
stress its features —the 90’s record
in the field speaks for itself. With
full 44 drawbar h.p. the Oliver 90
handles any implement easily,
economically.
SPECIAL NEWS: Ask
your Oliver distributor for
details; for the reason why
a ‘9o’ is today’s best buy.
ORDER YOUR
OLIVER “90” NOW
5.4 p.c. on a 6 p.c. distribution,
which would call for £36,000.
Net tangible cover is ss. 6d. a
share.
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
Re-
June, Profit. f ——Dividends N serves.*
£ p.c. £ £
’44.. 365,455 35 = 245,000 3,884,016
’45.. 327,410 35 = 245,000 3,966,426
’46.. 536,898 55 = 385,000 4,118,324
’47. .1,209,813 130= 910,000 4,418,137
’4B. .1,008,667 100= 700,000 4,726,804
’49. .1,787,451 150 = 1,050,000 5,464,255
’5O. .1,578,738 120= 840,000 6.202,992
’5l. .2,549,740 170 = 1,190,000 7.562,732
’52. .2,669,334 170 = 1,190,000 9,042,066
* Includes depreciation reserve,
£1,702,560 and appropriation for new
plant, etc., £1,350,000 at 30/6/’52.
The overriding factor in any dis-
cussion of base-metal shares at
the moment is the future of metal
prices. For the first time since
1939 free trading in lead and
zinc was resumed on the
London Metal Exchange on Oct.
1, 1952, and Jan. 2, 1953, respec-
tively. In each case a sharp fall
in the free market-price left last
official quotes under the British
Government’s bulk-buying and
-selling plan high and dry. This
means a contraction in mine
revenues, and places fresh
emphasis upon costs, mine and
mill efficiency, throughput and
grade of ore. In all these matters
the North stands high in the
scale, and developments at the
northern end of the property
have disclosed what is virtually
another mine, to serve which a
new haulage-shaft (No. 3), now
down about 500 ft., and new
ventilation - shaft, down over
1100 ft., are being sunk. And a
reserve of £1,350,000 has been
built up out of surplus earnings
to help finance the work.
Average London prices for
lead and zinc have moved in this
way;
Lead. Zinc.
£S. £S.
Year to 30/6/’5O. . 95 16 4 86 12 4
Year to 30/6/’51.. 185 18 0 148 13 11
Year to 30/6/’52. . 167 10 11 183 14 3
Month July. 1952 134 1 4 130 0 0
Month Dec., 1952 97 18 10 110 0 0
Jan. 20, 1953 . . 98 15 0 86 15 0
The Australian controlled-price
for both metals was lifted from
£A6S to £A9S a ton on Sejit, 5
last. Expectations are the
London figure for zinc will
fluctuate within the £SBS-£S9S
bracket for some time to come.
Opinion in US. is that the long-
term outlook for both metals is
one of increasing demand,
subject to temporary influences,
of course.
The North sells its lead and
zinc concentrates to B.H.
Associated Smelters and Electro-
lytic Zinc respectively, and prices
received are based on the average
of local and overseas sales.
Over two-thirds of the lead and
up to two-fifths of the zinc pro-
duced are exported.
Last term the co, treated
13,094 fewer tons ore, and there
was a slight drop in the grade:
Ore j — : ———Assay— N
Treated, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
1950.. 332,305 13.8 7.1 11.0
1951.. 351,066 13.5 7.1 10.8
1952.. 387,972 12.9 6.6 10.2
The effects were partly offset by
better concentration and
recoveries, and treatment of
more low-grade dump materials.
Profit claimed was £2,566,171
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
(up £ 115,418). The improvement
was due to a better return from
investments (up £47,737) and
reduced provision for taxation
and royalties (£1,925,000, down
£159,000). Working costs
gobbled the gain from higher
metal prices and more besides:
Revenue— 1951. 1952.
Mine products.. £7,770,418 £8,475,136
Investments . . 296,228 343,965
£8,066,646 £8,819,101
Expenditure—•
Mine .. .. 3,859,417 4,166,907
P. and 1. items. . 2,256,476 2,086,023
£5,615,893 £6,252,930
Net profit . . £2,450,753 £2,566,171
The £2,566,171 was equal to
18s. 4d. per ss. share, or
366.6 p.c. on the £700,000 of
capital as against 350, 211
and 244 p.c, for the three
preceding years. The div. was
kept at 170 p.c. Profit in the
introductory table includes pro-
vision for depreciation (£100,000)
and a small unexplained addition
(£3163) to reserves.
Finances are robust:
1951. 1952.
Shares in other cos. £2,723,689 £2,883,367
Stores . . . . 458,734 794,645
Concentrates on, hand 244,778 162,472
Debtors , . . . 1,816.207 1,019,804
Cash, etc... .. 1,751,403 2,581,753
Liquid assets . . £6,988,806 £7,442,041
Less liabilities* . . 2,771,489 2,616,074
Liquid surplus .. £4,217,317 £4,825,967
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
The year’s improvement in the
liquid surplus, or working
capital, was £608,650. That was
after £812,812 had been spent on
plant, etc. Shareholdings (up
£154,678) are mainly in well-
established and allied under-
takings.
Ore reserves are put at
4,832,000 tons, which doesn’t
include the large probable ton-
nage disclosed by drilling at the
northern end of the leases, where
one hole at the 3370 ft. level has
intersected the southern ore-
body, passing through 137 ft, ore
assaying 14.8 p.c. lead, lloz.
silver and 16.2 p.c. zinc. It will
be some years before this part of
the mine comes into full
production.
The market for the f.-p. ss.
shares, which fell from 91s, to
635. 6d. during 1952, stood at
745. 6d. last week, giving an
immediate return of 11.4 p.c. on
a 170 p.c, div. basis, or 8 p.c.
on a 120 p.c. distribution. At
745. 6d. the market values the
undertaking at £10,430,000, or
£5,607,000-odd more than the
liquid surplus.
Melbourne - controlled King
Island Scheelite (1947), Ltd.,
operating on King Island,
Bass Strait, handled more over-
burden and put more ore
through the mill for a bigger out-
turn of concentrates during the
12 months to Oct. 31, 1952:
Year to Oct. 31,
1951. 1952.
Tons. Tons.
Overburden removed.. 180,230 210,059
Ore milled, dry . . 155,596 174,217
Concentrates produced 964 1,000
£ £
Value 1,755,064 1,704,935
The drop in revenue was due to
the fall in the sterling price of
tungsten from 5255. per unit at
the beginning to 400 s. at the end
of the term. Net profit and a
lot of other details will be avail-
able when the accounts are pub-
lished, which should be any day
now. Dividend for the year
totalled £600,000, or 6s. per ss.
share, equal to 120 p.c. For the
previous year the profit was
£879,921, of which dividends
totalling 160 p.c. took £BOO,OOO.
Last term the co. had to meet
heavy capital outlay on new
plant and equipment, most of
which has been installed. De-
livery of two shovels has
been delayed, owing to shipping
difficulties, and the rate of over-
burden removed is behind
schedule. For the last four
months of the term mill through-
put of ore averaged 4000 tons
per week, and the figure is ex-
pected to rise to 5000 tons a
week for most of 1953. The
price of the co.’s scrip fell from
51s. to 395. over the last 12
months.


Women's Letters
STIC N ET
Some country districts must look
rather more underpopulated than usual
just now, to judge by the numbers of
country visitors to be seen around
Sydney. Most of them have made the
descent so as to be present at one or
other of the notable weddings held during
the week.
☆ ☆ ☆
Two hundred guests attended the
marriage of Annette Moore, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. G. Moore, of Moorlands,
Moree, to Duncan Livingston, at St.
Canice’s, and the reception which was
held at the Hotel Australia. Annette
was attended by her twin sister Geraldine,
by Patricia Meagher (West Wyalong) and
Marcella Rex. The bride’s dress was of
white tulle and Chantilly lace, her tulle
veil held in place by a coronet of roses.
The bridesmaid’s dresses were white tulle
and they wore tiny caps of pink rose-
petals. The ’groom’s attendants were
Geoff Todd, Frank Moore and Angus
Livingston.
☆ ☆ ☆
From the Bombala and Armidale
districts came guests to the marriage of
Diane Hornby, only daughter of the J. C.
Hornbys, of Armidale, to Desmond
Thomas, the second son of the late Mr.
N. R. Thomas and of Mrs. Thomas, of
Bombala. The bride’s dress was white
satin with a Peter Pan collar and fitted
bodice. Her bridesmaids were Judith
Higgerson (Tamworth) and June Read
(Rose Bay), with little Elizabeth Vincent
(Wollstonecraft) as flower-girl.
☆ ☆ ☆
Six bridesmaids (quite in the London
fashion) attended Rosalie Moxham, eldest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. Moxham,
of Murrawombie, Girilambone, when she
married Roy Fisher, son of the Roy
Fishers, of Colane, Nyngan, at St. James
Church, on Thursday. Her lovely dress
was of white organza, pearl-embroidered,
worn with a tiara and fingertip tulle veil.
The bridesmaids, Alison and Lindsay
Moxham (her sisters), Joan Moxham
(Mullengudgery), Fae Gerrand, Barbara
Bayston (Melbourne), and Mrs. Geoff
Green (Miandetia), wore bouffant dresses
of pale-blue organdie with blue and white
flowers in their hair. A reception for
200 guests was held at the Hotel Aus-
tralia after the ceremony.
*r * ☆
Members of the Forum Club heard an
interesting talk at their monthly meet-
ing during the week when Mrs. J. R.
Adams, wife of the U.K. Trade Commis-
sioner in Sydney, spoke on “Post-war
Impressions of Great Britain.” Mrs.
Adams is Australian-born but has visited
England so many times —she has been
back twice since the war—that she was
well qualified to speak on this subject. The
children of Great Britain seemed to Mrs.
Adams to be bigger, better and healthier
than any of the European children she
saw, and the general feeling was that the
future belongs to the children.
Obviously a great lover of the theatre,
Mrs. Adams saw 54 shows while on her
last visit and noted that theatregoing is
ceasing to be a social occasion in London,
practically no one wearing evening-dress
except on first nights; and the habit of
holding dinner-parties before the theatre
is becoming obsolete. She thought that
the character of the English people was
the same as ever, by and large, with their
staunch loyalty to the throne undiminished.
It is estimated that the English people
spend Hd. per head per year on the
Royal Family, which, thought Mrs.
Adams, is the best-spent Hd. of all.
Presiding at this meeting was Miss
Ruth Beale —among the listeners Mrs.
J. P. J. McCaulay, the Countess Pietra-
sante Sauvaigne, Madame Woo, Madame
Wang, Mrs. C. M. Guiney, Mrs. C. M,
Croft, Mrs. Keith Morris, Mrs. L. Kirkby
and Mrs. J. M. Tatlow, with Queensland
visitors Mrs. A. M. Hopkins and Mrs,
H. A Rock.
☆ ☆ ☆
Back in Sydney after a delightful
holiday in Victoria are the Roland
Fosters, who spent part of their vacation
with Mr. and Mrs. Chris Christensen at
their Mornington home, Braeside. Mr.
Christensen is the Danish Consul in Mel-
bourne. The remainder of the holiday
was spent at Henderside, Yea (Vic.), with
Mr. and Mrs. de Burgh Ker, whose
daughter Phyllis sang “Orpheus” here at
the Conservatorium last year. Mrs. de
Burgh Ker will be remembered as the
famous contralto Phyllis Lett. Mrs.
Foster says that one of the most delightful
evenings spent during the holiday was
the night before they left Henderside,
when Mrs. de Burgh Ker and Mr. Foster
sang the old-time duet “The Keys of
Heaven” and others of the same vintage.
Evergreen Jessie Matthews comes to
Sydney at last next week, when she plays
the lead in ‘‘Larger Than Life” at the
Tivoli, beginning February 4. This is
the first time Jessie has played in Sydney,
but she is so well known from her films,
‘‘Evergreen,” “The Good Companions,”
“Head Over Heels,” “It’s Love Again,”
etc., and by repute of those who knew
her in London plays, that it seems' as
though an old friend has returned. She
has been appearing in Melbourne, Ade-
laide, Perth, Bendigo and Ballarat, and
is accompanied on this tour by her 18-
year-old , daughter, Catherine Hale-
Monroe, whose tastes also run to the
theatrical and who took over one of the
parts in “Larger Than Life” while in
Perth. Photo by Athol Shmith.
About 40 young people attended the
dance given by Mr. and Mrs. A. Jewell
at their Vaucluse home in honor of
pianist Dorothy Hobart, who leaves for
London at the end of the week to further
her musical studies. Magnificent dahlias
decorated • the reception-rooms, and
lanterns lit up the grounds and sunken
garden. Dorothy, who holds both the
teacher’s and the performer’s diplomas
from the Sydney Conservatorium, looked
charming in blue brocade with tulle.
Floral nylon was worn by Betty Bunce,
who had just turned 21. During the
evening the engagement of Patricia Smith
to Bill Hannon (both of Bellevue Hill)
was announced, and the Joe Myers cele-
brated their first wedding anniversary,
so there was a good deal of celebration
and congratulation, all round which all
added to the happy atmosphere. Russell
Jewell, medical student and son of the
house, did a stalwart job of helping his
parents to entertain.
☆ ☆ ☆
Some of the most striking portraits in
the Archibald exhibition are by women
or have women for their subject. Mary
Edwards’s painting of Doris Fitton is a
dramatic portrayal of that very individual
lady’s appearance and personality. Amalie
Colquhoun’s full-length child portrait,
“Jennessee Blakie” (although not really
suitable for this exhibition), is most
attractive. “Sister A. Pulsford, of the
North-West,” by Dora Toovey, and “Mrs.
M. E. Cox,” by Mary Brady, both show
insight. A. J. Murch has done a really
lovely painting of Mrs. C. E. Martin,
wife of the N.S.W. Attorney-General,
and Dame Mary Daly, D.B.E., is shown
in the portrait by E. Buckmaster as im-
pressive and humane,
* * ☆
Borne in on the unabating flood of
cookery-books (all in a good cause, of
course) are two for beginners. The first
bears the hopeful title Anyone Can Cook
(Faber and Faber), and is by that Muriel
Goaman who wrote all the Judy cook-
books for beginners. This short book,
excellent for a shower-tea present and
even as a gentle hint to unhelpful hus-
bands, deals with simplicities generally
beneath the notice of cookery-books —
how to make toast, how to boil eggs.
It tells you why your cake sank in
the middle and how to avoid it, the
meaning of “making a roux” and other
obscure expressions. It explains why
it is impossible to make a good mea-t-pie
unless the meat has been cooked previ-
ously, and it covers most other aspects
of simple cookery. It could do with a
guide to the beginner on how to judge
an ounce of butter or flour, for example,
if she has no scales ; but altogether it is
a very useful little book.
The second book, Three Bottle Bar,
by H. i. Williams (Faber and Faber),
advertises itself as “Hospitality poured
from three bottles. The cost fits any
budget.” The three bottles are whisky,
gin and a dry white wine. If to these
are added orange-bitters, Angostura
bitters, syrup, orange-juice, lemon-juice,
lime-juice, maraschino cherries and mint,
you can make 21 varieties of cocktail.
After each recipe the author, who is
an American advertising man, gives some
salty comments. The H. i. Collins cock-
tail, for instance, which is made up of
the juice of one lemon, two teaspoonfuls
of simple syrup and two ounces of gin,
carries this comment : “The Collins is a
good tart lemonade with gin added. It
slides down with all the gentle innocence
of the lemonade and yet its deceiving
smoothness can pack quite a kick—par-
ticularly noticeable after the third is
down ” After the third you will have
consumed onoquarter of a bottle of
gin, diluted only with lemon-juice and
syrup, so “gae warily,” as the Scotsman
said.
MELBOURNE
This is Carol, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. George Griffith, of Toorak,
and one of the most attractive manne-
quins this city can boast. Educated at St.
Catherine’s, Carol later did a course at
the Emily McPherson College in domestic
science. Education concluded, she went
off with her parents on a tour of the U.S.
But she aims to be one of the top manne-
quins, and to this end hopes soon to
go again to America for further experi-
ence. Carol has a clear olive skin which
at the moment is further enhanced by a
beautiful tan gained while indulging in
her favorite hobbies, tennis and swim-
ming.
Guests toasted President Eisenhower
at a party given by U.S. Consul-General
Henry E. Stebbins and Mrs. Stebbins at
their South Yarra home. The party
was for American and Australian
delegates to the International Civil Avia-
tion Organisation Conference. Red
gladioli and white shasta-daisies in blue
bowls lent the decorative motif a patriotic
aspect. Guests included Air-Marshal Sir
Donald Hardman and his wife, Air-Vice-
Marshal and Mrs. Harcourt Smith,
Captain Robert W. Denbo, U.S. Naval
Attache, and Mrs. Denbo, Colonel John
L. Sullivan, U.S. Air Attache, and his
wife, and the U.S. Military Attache,
Col. J. W. Middleton and Mrs. Middle-
ton,
☆ ☆ ☆
When Janet, only daughter of Mrs.
Ada Wenborn (secretary of the Suther-
land Homes for Children), was married
at Scotch College Chapel, she wore a
gown of magnolia satin, the bodice of
which was 1 sewn with seed-pearls. The
long tulle veil was caught with a coronet
of tuberoses. Marmie Lewis and Sue
Christie, the bridesmaids, wore ballerina
frocks of primrose faille, contrasted by
bouquets of deep-cream gerberas. Prim-
rose hairbands were worn with the bride-
groom’s gift of pearl earrings. The
bridegroom, David, elder son of Mr. and
Mrs. D. R. Marshall, of Glen Iris, had
Robert Gardiner for best rrten and Robert
Perkins for ’groomsman. Reception was
held at the Hotel Australia.
☆ ☆ ☆
Monday, February 16, has been chosen
by the committee of the Queen Victoria
Hospital for a gala dinner-dance at
Menzies’ Hotel —this will be a part of the
Centenary celebrations of Menzies’. Plans
for this function were discussed at a late-
afternoon party at Kurneh, the home
of Lady Brookes, who is president of the
Q.V, Manager of Menzies’, George
Bassant, who was accompanied by his
wife, told the committee that the main
dining-room would be available, with
seating accommodation for 490 guests, A
special raised walk will be erected for
the mannequin-parade, which will be
arranged by Reta Findlay, of George’s, to
preview autumn designs. Tickets are
three guineas each. Mrs. Arnold Isaacson
is hon. secretary and Louis Nelken acting
hon. treasurer.
☆ ☆ ☆
There are several entrances to the city
of Launceston, but none lovelier than the
drive from Beauty Point, along the Tamar
River and so into the city. In
Launceston the visitor is at once struck
with the absence of noise—no clanging of
tram-bells or rattle on tramlines —buses
are the answer to that. Also, as in the
capital in the south, no cardriver toots
his horn. What a blessed relief after
Melbourne and Sydney din!
☆ ☆ ☆
Judith, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. G. M.
Eddie, of Launceston, is home preparing
for a trip to England in the Oronsay.
For several years she worked in Mel-
bourne as a journalist and recently several
Launceston journalists gave her a fare-
well luncheon —venue for party was the
Brisbane Hotel (where food ancl service
is super). Judith was attractive in a black
linen frock which had a pattern of yellow
daisies forming large squares and a
natural-straw sailor. Hostesses were
Shirley Williams and Estelle Campbell,
the former in black with a white beret,
the latter in pink linen and wide-brimmed
navy straw hat. Mrs. Eddie wore a floral
frock with black accessories. Among other
guests were Mrs. lan Carmichael, Barbara
Yates and Rowena Forrest, the latter a
Miss Tasmania entrant, in a pale lily-of-
the-valley linen frock and wide-brimmed
natural straw hat.
☆ ☆ ☆
The engagement is announced of Sheila
Howy, only daughter of Brigadier and
Mrs. Ronald Irving, of Toorak, and
Francis William, only son of Mr. and
Mrs. Francis Scott, of North Balwyn.
Wedding is expected to take place later
in the year, date depending on the acquisi-
tion of a home,
☆ ☆ ☆
Kay Hughes, former president of the
Victoria League’s Young Contingent, will
chaperone a party of 12 girls on an
organised tour abroad. They will leave
in the Neptunia on February 25. A
thirteenth girl, Jillian Wawn, now abroad,
will join the others in Naples. First fare-
well-party for Kay will be a luncheon
given by Mrs. Bowen Allen at her home
in Auburn on February 2. Two days
later Mrs. Donald Cochrane will enter-
tain Kay at a luncheon in her Kew home.
☆ ☆ ☆
Visitors from Melbourne recently holi-
daying at Wrest Point, the famous
hostelry at Hobart’s Sandy Bay, included
architect Harry Norris and his attractive
wife ; Mrs. Ray Joseph; Mrs. Howard
Ingram, accompanied by daughter Mrs.
John Heathcote and son lan; Mrs. John
Newton; Mrs. Constance Day; Stan
Grant and Paul Lynch.
☆ ☆ ☆
Bernard Dowd, recently back from a
trip to the U.S., was a genial host at the
informal luncheon he gave at Menzies’.
One strong fashion-point he noted in the
U.S. was that the scooped-neckline
sweater was the mainstay of the business-
girl’s wardrobe. For office wear it has
a “dicky” added; when the ball-and-
chain is removed at 5 p.m., the “dicky”
goes to the discard, jewellery is added—
and lo! milady is ready for the bright
lights'! Some of these sweaters, which
are worn with contrasting skirts, go into
the luxury class when a mink collar high-
lights them—skirts comprising 60 p.c.
wool and 40 p.c. nylon or dacron are
permanently pleated and washable and
can be dyed in many shades.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
I
■I
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONLY BATES:
Single Booms—
From 13/6 per night
Double Booms—
From 24/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE”
Sydney.
Telephones:
BW 2061 (9 lines)
FRENCH
Corn Cure
Cures Callouses and Corns
Available ul
Anthony Horderns’
Colgate Chlorophyll
Toothpaste
DESTROYS MOUTH ODOURS
M
Now! The Full Benefits of a Full-Strength
Chlorophyll Green Toothpaste in
Exclusive Colgate Formula
This new green Colgate
Chloro'phyll Toothpaste,
in most cases, acts
quickly, acts thoroughly
and the purifying action
lasts for hours! Keeps
your mouth fresh and
sweet longer. Use it
after meals before
every date! You’ll love
its freshy, minty flavour.
Fights Tooth Decay
Colgate Chlorophyll Tooth-
paste acts against destruc-
tive acids and actually helps
retard their formation.
CHECKS COMMON GUM DIS-
ORDERS. Colgate Chlorophyll
Toothpaste brings you effec-
tive benefits to help care for
sore, tender gums and pro'
mote healthy gum tissues.
Gives You A Clean Fresh Mouth That Lasts For Hours and Hours!
COLGATE’S GUARANTEE
Try Colgate Chloro-
phyll Toothpaste for
one week. If you are
not entirely satisfied
send back the tube
and Colgate will
give you double your
mbney back, plus
postage. Colgate
Palmolive Pty. Ltd.,
Colgate Avenue,
Balmain.
rni^ 7fi
mu *
V
O
c
>4
CL
CL
Tested and Guaranteed by COLGATE!
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
ARCHIBALD PRIZE
Although it is a terrible experi-
ence to be trapped in the left-
hand corner near the entrance,
where so many large, fearful
faces stare down from the wall
and won’t look away, nobody
minds walking in squares or
circles round the Archibald Prize
exhibits at the N. S. Wales
National Gallery |rom year to
year; but when the portraits all
look exactly alike each year, and
the same things must be said
about them every year, one has
an uneasy impression that time
itself is going round in circles,
and Australian art is going round
in circles, and the Gallery is
revolving in circles, and all life
is fatally bound upon some great
Buddhist wheel. .. which should,
somehow, be stopped: as indeed
it would be by the emergence of
one, or preferably half-a-dozen,
genuinely arresting works of art,
whether powerful or quietly
penetrating.
Perhaps this impression is not
quite fair. There are indeed quite
a number of admirable paintings
among the generally poor show-
ing. For pure aesthetic quality,
the charm of quietness and grace,
there is Arthur Murch’s portrait
of Mrs. C. E. Martin; for
rugged strength, powerful
modelling and vital reproduction
of flesh-tones there is Ivor Hele’s
Brigadier K. A. Wills; for a
richly decorative effect, along
with a clear likeness and a
dramatic pose, there is Mary
Edwards’s Doris Fitton. There
is a light, slight charm m Mary
McLeish’s impression of
Mignonne Armstrong ; and there
is William Dobell’s annual
explosion, this time concerned
with Mr. Hedley R. Marston.
A. D. Colquhoun, Charles
Wheeler, Buckmaster and some
Meld rum disciples are repre-
sented by competent if unexciting
works.
Yet the Murch, though with
more of the quality of a living
personality than any of the
others, has hardly the dimensions
of a prizewinner, and, perhaps,
has not enough to indicate
that the face is of different
texture from the background.
The Hele, which would otherwise
have been this reviewer’s choice
for the prize, has his strange and
disturbing fault of overlifesize-
ness, as if he feels intensely the
character and quality of the face
he is painting, but lacks the tech-
nical refinement to say what he
feels within a normal compass.
Both the portrait of Miss Fitton
and a strong head of a soldier
by Mary Edwards just fall short
of her highest level, the one a
little stiff, the soldier with a
wooing smile weakening the fine
virility of the forehead, eyes and
nose.
The Mary McLeish sketch,
like others she has exhibited in
previous years, is really too
sketchy, taking art perilously
close to the verge of the fashion-
advertisement; and the Dobell is
too slapdash altogether, pallid
and roughly painted, with an
unnerving crust of white paint
for the highlight on the forehead.
As, two years ago, he painted
Mr. Frank Clune as a lemon, so
he seems to have set out to depict
his present sitter as a hardboiled
egg. The wit is still there, the
ironic gesture is refreshing; but
these by themselves are not
enough.
The Dargie portrait of
Essington Lewis,, which won the
prize and which has none of
these shortcomings, still fails to
achieve that extra quality of
vitality one always hopes will
break through this artist’s smooth
technique and unfailing accuracy
of representation. It is, in fact,
inferior to his best work, with
something uneasy and self-
conscious about it as if the sitter
felt embarrassed at having his
portrait painted and the artist
too-faithfully followed what one
assumes is far from a charac-
teristic mood. The figure, too,
looks dwarfed against the height
of the background.
So that finally, unless the
charm of the Murch and the
vigor of the Hele still break the
circle, the total impression
remains that of repetition and
decline. It is not an outburst of
monstrosities that is required;
only the fullest display of the
qualities of craftsmanship and
vision that many of these artists
possess; maybe no more than
that, if the competition is to be
worth while, they should be sure
they send in to it their best works
of the year,
Wynne Prize
Much the same unfortunate
impression is made by the entries
for the Wynne landscape prize.
The general standard is low
and, although the first reaction is
to disagree with the judges’
award, it is hard to suggest an
alternative.
There are two intimate
glimpses of the bush by Lance
Solomon, one greyly suffused by
haze or smoke, the other with a
brown road finding its way
through the trees and suggesting
summer heat. Pleasant and
excellently painted though they
are, however, they are essentially
minor works and by no means
an indication of the artist at his
fullest powers.
There is also Leonard Long’s
“Departing Day”—a foreground
of silvered water with a soft
fringing of earth and grass; a
tree of nice proportion in just the
right place ; and a dark line of
heavy hills and a dark sky. The
first impression is agreeable—a
suggestion of Hilderish lyricism
—but it verges on prettiness and,
anyway, Hilder would have said
more by painting less and would
probably have faded his fore-
ground into a poetry of haze and
suggestion instead of heavily
overlining it with such a dark,
formidable background.
There are also paintings by
George Lawrence, John Elder-
shaw, Arthur Evan Read, Sali
Herman and John Santry—each
in his familiar style and each
with nothing new to say in
subject or report on it. None of
them shows any freshness of
vision or any quality to suggest
it should supplant the winning
entry.
Jack Carrington Smith has a
large, spacious and rather airy
painting of “The Derwent in
Spring,” but despite those attrac-
tive qualities there is something
faintly sombre and unspringlike
about it —as though the greens
are too dull and the air not as
clear as one might imagine.
Charles Meere’s entries are
demonstrations of his faults
rather than his strength. One
seems to be overlaid with that
characteristic vitx-eous sheen ; the
other is a pleasant enough scene
which he has resolved into too
obviouspatterns—he would have
done better to enter the softer,
more lyrical landscapes of which
he is capable.
Elaine Haxton’s paintings are
less garish than usual, but still
too suggestive of American
advertising although her
“Barrenjoey Lighthouse,” with its
marine clarity and bright open
sky, will bear looking on for
those qualities.
Thus, after looking at those
and other entries, one returns to
the winner Charles . Bush’s
“Summer at Kanmantoo”—and
says, as the judges probably did,
“What else?” Its pattern of
brokerudown buggies or sulkies
or what-have-you is clear, simple
and effective, and its dry grass
and atmosphere are unmistak-
ably summer. It is also probably
at Kanmantoo. It has a sugges-
tion of illustrative advertising
about it, it is too patterned, it
lacks poetry, it is familiar and
without freshness and there is no
suggestion of the wider vision
about it—Drysdale or Nolan
might have said something
similar with more imagination.
❖ ❖ ❖
Sulman Prize
Nobody ever seems to know
quite what the Sulman competi-
tion is for; least of all, this year,
the adjudicators, who, amongst a
lot of undistinguished paintings,
plumped on Charles Doutney's
“Darlinghurst Road” for no per-
ceptible reason. It is a view of
a number of people with their
backs turned to the viewer, has
some murky weight and color,
and may indicate promise. Pre-
sumably the competition was for
“genre,” and if James Gleeson’s
cryptic triptych “Tristan” is
definable as genre it would have
been a better choice; being, in
spite of its peculiar subject-
matter, at least a clear and
ingenious piece of painting.
Stage and Music
Beth Dean
Beth Dean, the exotic inter-
pretative dancer who has been
giving sessions at Melbourne
Town Hall, has not only been
studying the Kwakiutl Indians,
the Sioux and the Maoris, but
has apparently been giving the
primitive movements of our old
friend Binghi the once-over. His
own ideas of his own dancing
were given in the Mamba dance
drama at the Princess Theatre
during the Jubilee celebrations,
and remarkable they were.
It is difficult to say whether
Miss Dean has been studying
Binghi’s actual dancing and has
been so untrammelled by her
European tradition as to be able
to relax to it, or whether she
has imposed her own intellec-
tual prejudices on it; but in it-
self her dancing was good to
look at, particularly when she
was performing “Nalda of the
Echo,” who was banished for
causing a murder and who,
hungering for the love of chil-
dren, entices one to her only to
find that the curse has killed it.
Even more effective was
“Brolga the Dancer,” who gets
turned into the bird of that name
by the evil spirit of the willy-
willy.
*X* ❖ ❖
“Richard III”
Perth’s open-air Somerville
Auditorium was the scene of
“Richard III,” performed mainly
on an oval apron-stage of the
Elizabethan theatre type.
Produced by Michael
Langham, who has also produced
for the Old Vic. and Stratford-
on-Avon companies, the play
was lavishly costumed in con-
trast to its strictly formal setting.
The method of presentation was
highly successful, although the
performance was mediocre.
James Bailey, as Richard,
lacked the. strength and depth of
reality, and, because he was at
his best in the comedy relief, was
far more whimsical than tragic.
The best performance came from
Henry Cuthbertson, whose Duke
of Buckingham was understated
in comparison with the melo-
dramatic performances of Nancy
Lee (Margaret of Anjou) and
Carol Darbyshire (Lady Anne),
but whose portrait of a man
torn between his sense of right
and his lust for power was at all
times completely convincing.
The duel scene was spoilt by
the under-rehearsed sword-play,
and the tenseness in several
scenes was lost because of the
producer’s tendency to peram-
bulate the actors around the
apron as though they were white
horses in a circus arena. Apart
from those deficiencies, the play
was capably produced and was
competently, if somewhat
unimaginatively, acted.
Talkies
New Releases
“The World in His Arms”
(Sydney State): Rex Beach’s
story —or some of it —about a
Yankee skipper, Alaska, the
Russians and a measure of
violence and excitement. With
Gregory Peck as Clark, Ann
Blyth as the Countess and
Anthony Quinn as Portugee.
“Flesh and Fury” (Sydney
Capitol): About a deaf-and-
dumb boxer who beats hell out
of his opponents until he
recovers his missing faculties
and then finds the hoots*, boos,
cheers and other mob noises
associated with his calling far
too repulsive. Tony Curtis is the
pug ; Mona Freeman the goil.
“Everything I Have Is Yours”
(Sydney St. James): Pleasant
songandance in Technicolor with
Marge and Gower Champion as
a Broadway team whose career
is jeopardised by maternity.
Which does Mum choose —
career or domesticity?


Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON*
O'SUIJJVAN
if- mtnx^j
TRADE MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & C®.
Printers, Paper Merchants.
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LEITEKPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
■
>
m
■ ••
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
STAND UP AND END YOU
by Oliver Filter
Blasting - fuse bums
at thirty seconds to the
foot, hissing, smoking and
bubbling with melted
bitumen until the spark darts on
to the fulminate in the detonator.
The fulminate stabs the soft
body of the gelignite and, in an
untimed instant, that sleeping
slave stirs and smashes its way
out with a strength of 340 tons
to the square inch.
Sometimes, though rarely, it
burns faster than it should and
the spark might leap along three
or four feet of fuse in a few
seconds. It’s called a running
fuse then, and is one of those
little fears which miners keep
tucked away in the back of their
minds.
Spider Hayes was caught that
way a thousand feet underground
on the Great Mogul. He was
lighting-up when the ground in
front of him suddenly ached and
opened with a roar in his young
and handsome face. He lived,
and, by a miracle, kept his sight,
but he had a blue-pocked face, a
twisted nose and a hole in his
jawbone.
Spider went back underground
after they let him out of hospital,
but a little fuse went on burning
in his mind for nearly six years
until, one afternoon-shift on
Heney’s Reward, he suddenly
crashed a three-foot steel-drill on
the head of his workmate, Ed
Larkin.
HE had been going to kill
Larkin several times during
that shift. They were drilling at
the end of the old South Drive
on the six-hundred-foot, probing
after ore that had been tem-
porarily abandoned for richer
bodies elsewhere. Their helmeted
figures and oilskin capes made
leaping shadows as they wrestled
with the jackhammer and moved
around in front of their carbide-
lamps. Their hobnails and the
water from the drill worked the
ground to slush under their feet.
as Larkin paused with
his 'back turned, Spider had
gripped hard on a shovel; later
it had been a hammer ; but each
time the second of opportunity
passed before the decision
crystallised in his mind. Then,
as Larkin pushed his hat off and
knelt to tamp the toeholes, the
opportunity waited on the de-
cision. Spider hesitated again, not
from fear or compassionate
doubts, but from the same uncer-
tainty that had paralysed his
mind a hundred times. Then,
more with bursting fury at his
own indecision than with any
great hate of Larkin, he used
both hands to smash the drill
on to the hairline at the base of
Larkin’s skull.
For a moment there was no
movement in the little cave of
light; no sound, only a slight
hiss of escaping air from the
pipes. Then Spider said
“There!” in a soft gasp of con-
firmation to himself that he had
at last made up his mind.
Larkin’s body seemed to balance
in its kneeling position for a
moment, trembling as the last
flicker of life ran out the
muscles ; then it crumpled and
sprawled loosely and face-down
in the wet .mullock.
Spider’s plans had been vague
in their multiplicity. He had
thought of killing Larkin and
then himself; of giving himself
up ; or of trying to escape. Now,
when the moment was with him,
he turned away from the face
and saw that their trucker, a
youngster of eighteen, had come
up with an empty truck to pick
up the drills and other gear
before firing. He was standing
thirty feet down the drive and
staring at Spider. Spider stared
back and made as though to
speak. Jhere was nothing to say
and only a croak came from his
throat. The sound startled the
trucker into movement, and he
turned and blundered away into
the darkness of the drive.
Again Spider was faced with
indecision —whether to run or
wait —but there was a wind rush-
ing through his mind that
snatched and tore his thoughts
to shreds. He moved around
aimlessly for a minute or more,
touching objects around him and
feeling and plucking at his own
clothes ; then he took his lamp,
a split packet of gelignite, and a
coil of fuses with detonators, and
moved off down the drive.
THEY got Larkin’s body to the
surface very quickly and
cleared most of the men from
the six-hundred-foot level. Then
they formed two or three small
search-parties. There was a maze
of old workings off the South
Drive crosscuts, subsidiary
drives, slopes, winzes and rises,
and somewhere, running or wait-
ing in that great silent black
labyrinth, was Hayes.
The shift-boss found him. He
was leading the way along a
subsidiary drive, his flashlight
throwing a gash of light that
reflected on the rails and made
expanding and contracting
shadows from the heavy, press-
ing timbers, when he noticed a
glow of light from a small cross-
cut on his left. He knew the cut
as well as he knew every other
corner of the mine. It ran in for
twenty feet at right-angles to the
drive, then turned south for
about another thirty feet. That
was all there was to it. It had
been started, left, used as a
magazine and then abandoned
like most of the workings off the
South Drive.
From the drive where he stood
the shift-boss could only see as
far as the corner of the crosscut;
somewhere around it in the
thirty-foot dead-end Hayes was
waiting. He motioned to the
miner with him to remain and
moved a few steps into the cut
and stopped. “Spider!” he
shouted. “Are you in there?”
There was no answer, so he
called again; then again, twice.
Another shout was on his lips
when a nervous, high, almost
shrill “Go way” came round the
corner.
Although he had been calling
and waiting for an answer, he
started. Then he called again.
“Spider; come out of that. I
want to talk to you.”
There was no answer.
The shift-boss was a nuggety,
forceful man with eyes that were
almost black in the half-light. He
had spent nearly half his waking
life below the surface, and, so
long as he was concerned with
mines and miners, there was a
quick, certain purpose about his
speech and action. But he was
up against something different
now, and he hesitated for a
minute while he considered the
situation. Then he reasoned that
Spider’s voice had come from
well round the corner and that
there had been no threat in it \
only fear.
He walked forward to the
corner.
At first he only saw the
hunched and apparently-helpless
figure squatting beside the lamp ;
and he made as though to go
straight up to him. Then, with a
surge of fear, he stopped. Spider
had a bundle of three or four
sticks of gelignite in his hand,
with the silvery tip of a detonator
and less than half an inch of
fuse protruding from it. He was
holding it towards the carbide-
lamp, less than six inches from
the hot little naked flame.
EVEN at thirty feet the shift-
boss could see that the fuse
was neatly cut and split so that
there was every probability that
it would catch immediately. He
didn’t need to think to know
that it would burn for only a
second, possibly less, before it
spat into the detonator.
Spider no longer looked help-
less. His hunched figure seemed
to have a terrible purpose about
it, and, in the light of his lamp,
his eyes shone brightly against
his dark, blue-flecked skin.
The shift - boss shouted
urgently “Put it down, you
bloody fool.”
Spider started at the shout and
screamed “Get back or 111 light
it.” j
The shift-boss wanted time to
think. He realised that Spider
was not in the act of lighting the
fuse; that he was only ready to
light it. “Now listen, Spider.
Take it easy. You can’t do a
thing lik? that. Now just take it
easy and listen to me.’
Spider was looking at him with
a blank, waiting stare. “You
can’t sit up there for the rest
of the week. You’ve got to come
out sooner or later. Haven t
you?”
Spider shook his head slowly.
“Well, what are you going to
do?” He didn’t like asking the
question because he knew the
answer.
Spider spoke, still nervously,
but more quietly. “I’m going to
fire this when I’m ready.”
“Now, now, now look.
Spider. Don’t be a fool. Every-
one knows why you killed
Larkin, and a lot of them would
reckon he had it coming. With
a bit of luck you might get out
of it. There’s a bloody good
chance, I should say.”
Very little of what the shift-
boss was saying got through to
Spider ; only a few odd words.
Although he sat quietly there
was a high singing tension in his
mind, and in the scrabble of
tattered thoughts and ideas that
fluttered about one thing stuck
like a great black wedge: he had
killed Larkin. All the other little
snatches of thought —of being
caught, of making excuses, of
running away, of catching trains,
of telling his wife —all of them
led back to that, and from there
to the gelignite in his hand.
Would it be quick? Would he
feel it? How would she feel?
Would she be sorry? Or would
there soon be another like
Larkin?
But even as each thought
rejected itself and fell beneath
the next like feeble dying sparks,
Spider was still aware of the
shift-boss. He wanted to be left
alone to think; his decision
about the gelignite had selected
itself from the very aimlessness
of his intentions, and, even
though he had decided, he wasn’t
quite ready; not while the
hundred small fingers of fear and
hope were plucking at his mind
and at the immovable conviction
that there was no hope.
“Blast you. Spider, listen to
me! ” From where he stood the
shift-boss could see back to the
drive; the other search-parties
had come up. “Now listen.
Don’t do anything. D’ you hear
me. Don’t do anything. I’ll be
back in a minute.”
SPIDER didn’t answer, and
the shift-boss turned away
and walked out to the drive.
Evans, the doctor, and Lacey,
the constable, were there ; and
with them were the underground-
manager, the underground-fore-
man and two or three miners.
The shift-boss went quickly
through the details and finished;
“He’s got a handful of fracteur
and he says he’s going to blow
himself up. He’s as crazy as a
loon.”
The underground-foreman said
“Godalmighty,” and Lacey
asked “There’s no way of taking
it off him?”
“It’s got half-an-inch of fuse
in it. He’ll light it at the drop
of a hat. You wouldn’t have a
chance.”
“How long will his lamp
burn?”
“Four hours. Mebbe more ;
mebbe less.”
The underground - manager
looked at Lacey’s leather-
holstered .38. “Could you use
that?”
Lacey shook his head. “Only
if he threatens anyone. He’s
only endangering himself at the
moment. The job is to get him
out of there alive.”
“But dammit, he’s a murderer,
isn’t he?”
“Not until the court says so,”
Lacey said flatly, and the doctor
nodded in agreement. “I better
go see him.” He took off his
belt and holster and passed them
to the shift-boss. “Hold this. I
don’t want to frighten him. In
his state of mind he’d be quicker
than a snake.”
Lacey was a big and lazily-
powerful man with flat fair hair,
quiet blue eyes and a jaw like a
liovel. Most people liked him
id only drunks argued with
m. He stooped along the cross-
it to the corner ; the doctor
illowed him and stopped a few
eps back, just out of Spider’s
ght.
Lacey said “Hullo, Spider,”
id, as the other stared at him
ithout answering, went on. “I
'ouldn’t do it if I were you,
pider. I’ve seen three or four
okes get the same idea. They're
ll still alive and glad of it.”
Lacey’s voice was raised a
ttle to bridge the thirty feet
etween him and Spider, but it
ad a soft insinuating quality. It
worried Spider and he shifted
lightly. The constable’s eyes
icked quickly to the gelignite.
“You’re only here to take me
i,” Spider said.
“That’s part of it,” Lacey told
im gently. “I’m also trying to
ave your life.”
“So they can string me up?”
“I don’t know about that;
hat’s for the court and the
udge. But I’ll tell you this,
ipider. The law doesn’t allow
rou the right to kill Larkin be-
ause he was playing around with
'our wife, but it might consider
hat as a mitigating circum-
tance.”
“Well, I’m dam’ glad I killed
see? I’d do it again. I
jnly wish I’d got the others.”
IX7HILE he was talking Lacey
» ’ was considering the scene in
front of him. A leap; two
strides and a leap ; no retreat
ind no cover. Say two seconds
;o reach the lamp and knock it
rut. He wondered if he could
do it. He was brave enough to
have taken a lot of calculated
risks in his time, but not foolish
enough to chance the hopeless.
Spider sensed his thoughts.
“Don’t try to jump me, Mr.
Lacey. Please, I don’t want
anyone to get hurt.”
Lacey almost smiled at his
own obviousness. “I’m not a
fool, Spider. You’ve got the
drop on all of us at the moment.
What made you suddenly pick
on Larkin instead of one of the
others before him?”
There was a sudden fierce
feeling in Spider’s voice. “I saw
them together the other night.
They were down in the creek-
bed. She was whispering and
laughing. She used to be like
that with me once.”
Lacey saw Spider’s hand
trembling and felt the danger in
the subject. He returned to
soothing and persuading. “Why
don’t you forget all that, Spider?
There’s a good chance for you
to start again. How old are
you?”
He was surprised when Spider
said “Thirty.” The scarred face
and broken features hid any
clues to Spider’s age, but he
seemed much older.
Lacey went on talking, softly
and easily, feeling for the threads
of Spider’s thoughts and trying
to follow them, to catch them
and hold them. All the time his


eyes moved from the lamp to
Spider’s eyes and back again.
He sensed that the doctor had
walked out of the cut and joined
the others in the drive.
THERE were lights on in the
house when the doctor got
there. Hayes’s wife was fully
dressed when she answered his
knock. She was good-looking
and looked intelligent, and not
what he had expected. She had
also obviously been told what
was happening at the mine.
He told her who he was, and
she let him in to the well-kept
living-room. There was a suit-
case on the table, nearly packed.
“Not when I left ten minutes
ago,” he answered her question.
“But he might at any time.
Lacey is trying to talk him out
of it, but I don’t think he can.”
“There’s nothing I can do,”
she said. “Honestly there’s not.”
She was talking very quietly, but
he knew she was on the edge of
hysteria.
“You could talk to him. Tell
him anything to make him
change his mind. We can,.
She didn’t let him finish. “No.
Nothing. Not any more. You
don’t know.”
“I only know you might be
able to save his life,” he said
with a shade of anger. “After
all, he’s been driven to this. It’s
only because ...”
“Because of what?” She
moved back a couple of steps.
“I’ll tell you. I loved Spider
when I married him, and I loved
him after he was smashed up in
that blast. And I’d’ve gone on
loving him. I didn’t mind the
scars and the way he looked. It
wasn’t me who changed ; it was
him. You wouldn’t understand.
He used to love me, but after-
wards he was different. He was
afraid. He used to come beg-
ging and clutching for me;
asking me to love him ; not to
leave him. I tried, but I
couldn’t; I just couldn’t.”
“Why didn’t you leave him
then? It would have saved him
from this.”
“I’ve been going to leave him
a dozen times. But it’s always
the same. I tell him and he begs
me to stay; promises not to
touch me or come near me so
long as I stay. Tells me I can
live as I please if only I don’t
leave him.
“So I’ve stayed,” she said with
sudden weariness. “A dozen
times. We’ve moved and started
again; from town to town. But
it’s always the same. God, he
even asks if he can touch me,
asks me to sleep with him, and
goes on asking like a beggar for
pennies. I’d’ve gone mad if there
hadn’t been someone else.”
The doctor was readjusting his
thoughts. He wanted to go over
all she had said and examine it
piece by piece against what was
happening in the mine. But the
urgency of his visit was more
important. He spoke with a lot
more tolerance. “But even if
there is your side to it, Mrs,
Hayes; right now you might be
able to ... ”
“No,” she said. “I’m taking
the taxi to the railhead. I’m not
going to be here by morning.
And X think he’d be better off
dead,” she said flatly and
bitterly.
LESS than half-an-hour after
he left, the doctor was back
at the mine. The group was still
at the opening to the crosscut,
and Lacey was still inside talking
softly and patiently to Spider,
The doctor shook his head in
answer to the underground-
manager’s question.
“The bitch,” said the under-
ground-manager.
The doctor was irritated.
“She’s almost as close to the
edge as he is, I think,” he said.
“Then where the hell does that
get us?” the underground-
manager snarled. “Can’t we do
something?”
“Have you got any ideas?”
the doctor snapped back. “Can
you do any better than Lacey’s
doing?” He was annoyed
because most of them seemed to
regard the problem as something
mechanical. Only Lacey had the
right idea. He went in and joined
him, standing where he could see
Spider crouched thirty feet away.
Lacey was saying “And every-
one from here would give
evidence in your favor.”
“That’s right, Hayes,” the
doctor spoke for the first time.
“If you light that fuse there’s no
hope for you. If you don’t light
it —if you come out with us —
there’s every hope.”
Spider was tired now, and a
dull numbness was creeping over
the agitation of his mind. He
looked at the doctor without
showing any signs of hearing
him.
The doctor went on. “I’ve
just seen your wife and she’s
waiting for you. With my
evidence you won’t be convicted
for killing Larkin. There’s
nothing you can’t get over.
You’ve been sick for years, and
I promise you that if you come
with me I’ll see you have no
worries until you can face them.”
He raised his voice to try to
give it conviction ; he had the
terrible feeling of something
slipping from under his hands.
“Look, man, you’re only thirty.
You’ve a whole life ahead of
you. A new life, if you like.
For God’s sake, man, listen to
me!”
Spider looked up wearily. “I
thought of all that,” he said.
TN the instant that the doctor
wondered if the constable had
heard the end in Spider’s voice,
Lacey knocked him back into
the safety of the crosscut. With
the same movement he launched
himself in a great cat-like leap.
But even as he sprang he saw
Spider’s hand dart forward, and
the fuse spit into life. As he
flung himself to the ground he
had a momentary glimpse of
Spider with his head bowed over
his chest while he pressed the
gelignite to him.
Then the hot rush and roar of
the blast went over him, and
small fragments of stone pelted
harmlessly against his clothes.
Bucolic Eclogues from an Old Homestead...
AT RANGAMATTY
In Spring
By ETHEL ANDERSON
Because it is spring in this delectable country
black clouds musical with thunder wander up to tear
asunder blue hills with wonder unfolding, tier on tier,
and Angels whose harness is bright and serviceable
lay out canteens of forked lightning on the sky s table.
Quite like mushrooms below them sheep nibble grass
away
or peddle wool round the circus arena s heyday
where the Ringmaster trundles in, spangled, a sunburst
—so dapper a clown—to cartwheel across the sawdust.
To be his spectators the field-flowers leave their lairs,
their love adventures and daisy and buttercup affairs
of the heart. Birds chirp and clap their applause whose
winter had faith. False sarsaparilla and old-man’s-beard
assert their delightful love over each chip and splinter
and we, who brought from the Old World violets, who
feared
the loss of the breath of orris and sandal they bring
had no need to—here were they: blue, dog-toothed
and dear,
and ready to people the bush we thought unpeopled
here,
because it is spring, because it is spring in this country.
Old Homestead
If I shut my eyes I see a house painted grey
with twelve white pilasters and a flight of wooden steps
set among lilacs and pepper-trees—gay
the young voices flowering in their laced transept's.
If I shut my eyes I see a house painted grey,
where heat and light filter in through the closed
shutters,
and the rooms flush with life. I hear the piano play
“Oh, come, Charlottina, where my fond heart
flutters!”, ( ~
or “The Dashing White Sergeant!”, or "Ever of Thee ,
and the hours pass like clouds, imperceptibly.
If I shut my eyes I see the Marechal Niel rose
and the wonga-vines scrambling over the trellised path;
I see again rain measured in the gauge, those
weedy lawns, those fatherly eaves, that sheltering
hearth.
Arrival
Whenever we drove out to the old homestead
we skirted the dry lake, where there was a bird,
an iron-grey bird (not a curlew) that flew
piteously away, while a mirage
giggled, blazoned above the hazy lake-bed.
Astray there, at leisure, some few sheep fed
and some seagulls darted at large
to snip and scissor at the infinite blue
with sharp white wings, forgetting the seaweed
and sand, and the deserted, distant sea,
the untithed shires under the wind’s wing.
Came a hill to scale! Next, a river-flat,
then a wooden bridge, then a field of wheat,
poultry disturbed, lit sheep-forms in retreat,
gates, a glad dog (we’d expected that ♦
but not such wild unbridled delight),
oh! etched on the stars, at last——a roof! Bright,
bright the lamps of home! At midnight
curlews. In deep drifting of petunia-scents—sleep.
The Household
Hear the cocks crow! The bantam group
chuckle “Up! Up! Up! Up!” From a high coop
resounds the authentic call of Chanticleer,
his cock-a-doodle-doodles trumpet-clear.
Proudly Dame Perdelote mentions, chuckling^too,
“I lay an egg a day,
eggity,
eggity!” .... ..
—“Yet I can’t fit your foot! What is it ails you?
—so some impertinent rooster answers her.
Who first wakes up? Why, Craddock and his wife!
Black-bearded Craddock, ear-rings in his ears,
gold ear-rings—the story was, he had won
the Grand Prix once (it would be once) upon
—Minting? The jockey sick, he rode, being stable-lad,
and used his name. Certainly Craddock had
a gold watch. French-inscribed. He orders life
for all the farm. Godlike, his word gives birth
to calves, to pigs, to foals. In time of dearth
he deals out death or market; sometimes both.
Ike Peachy, then, a tousled sandy thatch
tears from his pillow, unwillingly lifts the latch
of the stable door. At three o’clock he’d come
back from a Picton social, walking twelve miles home.
Mariana, next, will raise a lovely head,
from an uneasy pillow sip her tea—in bed—
choose something starched to wear, then bravely dare
the windswept veranda, bathe; six pannikins her share
of water.
Burnished her bright hair.
Dressed, she’ll survey her kingdom—“ What to do?”
The notes in Connington’s Vergil, all she knew
of farming, her sole guide, were not much use;
she’d turn the pages, smile, and sigh, and muse;
“The old drudging sun from his long-beaten way
shall hear thy voice, start, and dis-orient day.”
Whose voice? She listens. Reads—“Oh, Caesar's.”—
“Plough
when winter’s gone.” I did. Sowed corn. Came frost!
—a black frost out of season. All was lost.
She steals a glance to the far-distant gate,
another at the glass; continues to translate.
Her Dairy
Her dairy, facing south, as clean as cold,
woke to the daily round when first the gold
noose from the sun caught her veiled hill with light,
while far away the Appin mists gleamed bright.
The milk first warmed, then cooled, the wrinkled
cream,
the sanded churn scrubbed sweet as hazel-nuts,
was then her toy. A wooden box might seem
archaic —so it was!
The handle turned
(and turned, and turned) until the cream was churned.
Washed, salted, washed, pressed dry with butter-pats,
colored with sulphur (one must live) in rounds
stamped with a crown and thistle, perhaps ten pounds
of butter went to market. In the dray
Ike drove as many miles to gain five shillings a day.
Roses quite black tapped at her window-panes,
birds sang, trees flowered; her orchard gains
—ripe peaches, cherries, strawberries —at her door,
she did not once imagine she was poor.
The Timber-thieves
Five hundred acres perhaps were wire-enclosed
in one long paddock where, neatly composed
in many a feathery coppice, wattle-trees
flourished along its eastern boundaries; these
even last year (bark being forty pounds a ton)
brought her two hundred guineas a fortune!
But in the paddock’s westerly end the bush
dropped to rough creeks where riotous torrents rush.
Here trespassing carts, the hauled log’s jarring chains,
the horse’s slipping hooves, the axe’s gain's,
shatteringly fall, she heard; but etiquette
ordained feigned ignorance if she met
loads churning the ruts. Silent, she stood,
as three-and-six a sleeper from her wood
made rich the timber-thieves—grand simple men
whose creed it was bland nature’s gifts are given
equally to all men in the sight of Heaven.
“Mushrooms,” she granted, “blackberries, fish, a bird,
water, sunshine, moonlight!” Mariana said
“My grandfather bought this land.” “You can’t buy
trees,” they’d heard,
"at half-a-crown an acre” . . . (All he’d paid.)
The Paddock Called “The Monument”
Whose was the Monument? A sandstone cairn
neatly deployed, its theme unknown.
We learn
more from the duck-pond, certainly Wiltshire-made,
straw-lined, reed-rimmed, towards its windward shade
some Scrubby bushes overhanging it;
a product, this, of knowledge linked with wit.
Though wringing-wet, bending, the grasses cull
no dew-drops for it, but the nightly mist
the sea-fogs drifting inland, these persist
with salt-dust from the sea to keep it full,
miraculously, a mist-pond, not a dew-pond. Where
well-puddled clay’s designed to keep it clear
the water, fit to drink, on this hill-crest,
in a dry year is wonderful to taste.
A yellow wildcat, spotted white, lives near,
native, but not pure-bred. Far tamer, here,
the birds, where some bark domicile, now gone,
must once have housed a kindness they have known.
Apostles, the seven-brothers, robins, wren,
hop, questing, where a threshold might have been.
In September
Because it is spring in this delectable country
the wild native-cherry ripens in a black Jo-ko,
flat on his back the beetle revolves, waving vague
legs,
the unhandy bumblebee crash-lands on roses. So
shyly the earwig emerges to dry her lustrous eggs.
Oh, here all’s pleasant! Even in such gruelling heat!
Though far the agate rock, the lazy lazuli sea,
though far the pestered beaches and the busy Quay,
far' the romantic island and the tremulous palm,
excited, even, in the flattest calm,
our murmurous river— lessening—is still sea-clean,
our willows, darkening, know a fresher green,
our country air, though fervent, is as soft as sweet
as is that scented island’s—sweeter, this mignonette!
—Because it is spring, because it is spring in this
country.


The Ideal
HOME MOVIE
Outfit!
»
PAILLAED - BOIEX 1.8
CAMERA. Bm.m. 25ft. capa-
city. Film end indicator in
viewfinder. 12 to 32 frames
per second. With f 2.8 lens
and case £69/13/4
m
$
/<v\
i
PAIEEARD - BOEEX MBR
PROJECTOR. Bm.m. Silent.
Audible speed indicator. 500 W
lamp. Takes up to 250 V.
With case and access., £97/10/-
Write for further details
Mail Orders or Trade-ins Accepted
E. ESDAILE & SONS
43 Hunter St., Sydney. 8W8631
DEVIL'S-EYE VIEW
by ETHEL ANDERSON
THE ancient pattern of the
sky was changing. Sun,
moon and stars no longer
controlled it. Like the
arrow Jointed wakes made by
ducks crossing a pond, narrow
ribs of cirrus, man-made, not
God-made, appeared, like
turned-up clods in a fallow
heaven, to follow the aeroplanes
going north. These insignia of
a mechanical age had disturbed
the snowgeese in their migration
across the lower Himalayas;
birds that had for centuries con-
tended with the winds, with
Indra’s cloud-messengers, were
scattered by radar; the whole
empyrean, from its faint hori-
zons to its Turkish-blue zenith,
was written over with cruising
geese attempting to reform their
flights and the V - shaped
streamers thrown out by the
bombers —the language of hate ;
they went north laden with
destruction.
The aircraft could be ob-
served quite low down, gleam-
ing in the eastern sunlight like
silver fish, or cutting a passage
through cumulus masses that
drifted away from their pro-
pellers, to leave behind them a
blue gash and two wandering
trails of vapor that loitered in
their tracks long after they had
vanished from sight.
On the north-going roads the
lorries were hidden. A blanket
of mist obscured the February
earth. Only the loud laughter
of the lorry-drivers, the rumble
of engines, the shriek, the
screech of brakes (Was it?
Sounds, perhaps, were magni-
fied by an early promise of rain)
told of the whereabouts of the
convoys, the transports returning
southward from Kashmir. They
travelled slowly. They were
running over frozen roads and
through a wintry landscape.
Snow hid every cranny in the
encircling hills. Icicles bent the
boughs of every bare, pliant,
tree. Every puddle was frozen.
Every pond was coated with
rime. The houses were banked-
up with thick white coverlets.
TJOWEVER, outside the Birla
mansion in New Delhi all
was clear. All was sunlit! The
green lawns in front of the
handsome houses, the roses, the
zinnias—last gift of a benignant
winter —the quickly assembling
crowds of worshippers were
bathed in the brilliant light of
an early afternoon sun, and the
five hundred devotees of Mahat-
ma Gandhi, as they waited for
his daily meeting of prayer and
song to begin, moved about
almost with gaiety; they were
to see the Master, they would
receive his blessing. They were
for the most part “ryots,”
humble peasants, and some had
brought offerings.
The three coolie women who
stood nearest the pretentious
wrought-iron gates were, ap-
parently, friends. One had a
white goat tethered to a frayed
rope, and they were discussing
the animal, she who led it say-
ing proudly, “I have brought
Mahatma a present of a she-
goat in milk.”
“Aei! Mahatma Gandhi loves
fresh milk,” the second woman
agreed. “He drinks it with dates
and white honey.”
“Aei! Honey crushed in the
comb,” added a third woman.
“He was like a man distraught
when that old she-goat of his —
she he called Nirmala—died! ”
“Yes, yes, poor man! He’s
had his sorrows.”
“Isn’t that Mrs. Naidu?”
“Yes, yes! The Indian
Nightingale! She’s Mahatma’s
chief disciple. Look at her wait-
ing so meekly under the neem-
tree ; she’s smiling now.”
“She’s been three times jailed
by the English.” The first coolie
woman craned her neck to look
through the tightly packed backs
before her. “My girl’s her ayah.
Oh, she’s a sweet mistress! So
kind! So chatty. ‘lf I blow my
nose,’ she told my girl, ‘the Eng-
lish panic and arrest me.’ How
she laughs at them.”
Here a Bannia’s wife, edging
too closely against them, pro-
voked the three coolie women.
“Who do you think you’re
shoving?” the first woman
asked angrily.
“Who? I don’t think! I
know! A dirty untouchable!
That’s what you are! ” The
Bannia’s wife was suddenly
furious.
“Untouchable! ” All three
women shouted immediately,
almost in unison. “Untouch-
able! We are the children of
God! Gandhi says so! We’ll
have no caste-distinction —no!
Certainly not! Oh, isn’t that
rich? From a wretched Bannia’s
wife —if Gandhi heard her
she’d be reproved!”
“These tradespeople! ” The
coolie woman leading the goat
cried out loudly, wanting every-
one to hear. “Light-weight!
Light-fingers! Oh! Untouch-
ables, are we! ” She fingered the
shrinking Bannia’s wife’s red
veil. “Defiled by my touch, are
you, Madam Pure? Off you
go! Bathe in the Ganges!
Don’t mind the crocodiles —
Gandhi won’t miss you.”
“Oh, the crocodiles will wel-
come you, right enough,” the
second woman shouted, rubbing
her “unclean, sweeper-caste”
hands over the frightened
woman’s face. But she tore her
veil from their clutches and
vanished in the crowd, leaving
the coolie women laughing.
6 6T OOK, Sukreeti! That’s
Naturam Godse he’s
one of the extremist Hindus. A
member of the Mahasabda. No
Pakistan, no Moslem State , for
Naturam. No, indeed. Don’t
ask me where he’d put the Mos-
lems.”
“Oh, that’s easyl He’d
butcher them, every one, nice
young man! But what is he
doing here?”
“Oh, our Holy One is wise!
Mahatma says ‘Live and let
live.’ ”
“Oh, he’s a dear old man —a
saint, too. He’s all for a quiet
life.”
“Yes, yes, I know all that,”
the first speaker was impatient.
“But what is Naturam Godse
doing here? Tell me that, now.
He edits a Poona paper, doesn’t
he?”
“Oh, yes, so he does. Well,
now, what’s he doing in New
Delhi?”
A fakir, a naked “Gooroo,”
rubbed grey with ashes, emaci-
ated by fasting, who stood next
them,, answered the question.
“He’s come to worship as we
all have. Prayer is our one
refuge in trouble. Even at Bal-
liol I prayed for hours every
day.” The fakir spoke with an
“Oxford” accent; that is, he
spoke the vernacular with a high-
toned precision.
“True, true —how right you
are,” the second coolie woman
answered absently, searching,
meanwhile, her pleated skirt.
“Where are my saffron-cakes?
Where? Where?” She could
not come on them and grew
frantic. “Lost! Lost! Cakes
steeped in aniseed and cummin!
Xes, sweet with cardamon and
sugar! I tied them in my sarree!
I felt them a few minutes
back!”
“Ah —ha! ” exclaimed the
woman with the goat. “That
Bannia’s wife —she stole them.”
“ ‘lf you meet a snake and a
woman —kill the woman.’ How
true is the proverb! ”
46"pEACE, women! Compose
your weak minds to
prayer—our Holy Mahatma
now approaches.”
The fakir pointed to the
green lawn across which Gandhi
was now seen to walk, an arm
round the neck of each of his
two granddaughters, Ava and
Manu, girls wearing the white
shirt and trousers of Hindu
women. Gandhi, as usual, wore
only a muslin dhoti, a loincloth.
He was as thin as paper. On
his bald head a handkerchief
was thrown, carelessly. His eyes
shone like black lamps.
He stopped to speak to the
waiting Mrs. Naidu.
“Micky Mouse!” The Indian
Nightingale greeted him exuber-
antly. She was accustomed to
air her familiarity with Gandhi
by addressing him in public by
such fond names. Possessively
she arranged the handkerchief
on his head, talking, meanwhile,
to the two girls on whose shoul-
ders the Master was leaning.
“Well, girlies, how is the dear
man?”
“Still weak, but he grows
hourly stronger! He’s so
happy!” Ava looked round her
grandfather’s arm to answer.
“His last fast went on for
seventy-two hours! Such a suc-
cess, too!”
“It nearly finished his precious
life-work, all the same.” Manu
leaning forward, settled the thin
arm more comfortably round
her neck.
“In the famous ‘Febrhary
Fast’ —he died !” Still fiddling
with the handkerchief, Mrs.
Naidu was positive. “We had
all gathered round his bedside.
It grew dark. His pulse fal-
tered. It stopped. Yes, girlies!
We could all swear to that!
Gandhi ceased breathing. In-
deed, it’s true. Then —from the
shadowy valley —he came back !
Honestly! By sheer effort of
will I always think! ”
She smiled at Pandit Nehru,
who had come from the house
to join them.
“Today, childies, I feel
anxious. I’m psychic. Call it a
hunch —I feel so nervous. I’m
sure something dreadful will
happen.”
But Gandhi and his grand-
daughters, with Pandit Nehru
walking beside them, had made
their way to the platform near
the wrought-iron gates, and the
waiting crowd had begun their
wild acclamations.
“Gandhi-ki-Jai.” “Victory
for Gandhi.”
The people prostrated them-
selves, shouting; it was their
hallelujah.
“God has chosen me as His
servant, God has made me His
blessed instrument! ” Gandhi,
on the platform now, made him-
self heard, still supported on his
granddaughters’ shoulders.
“Pandit Nehru is here to tell you
of the success of my last fast.”
TTIS dearest friend, the Prime
Minister of the new India,
moved to the edge of the scaf-
folding, raising his voice to gain,
in his turn, a hearing, to talk-
down the noise made by passing
cars, the chattering of minahs
and doves in the garden.
“Brothers! This last miracle
beggars belief! A million
Indians were lying dead, massa-
cred in religious hatred. Ten
million people were homeless,
starving, driven from their
homes by savage butchery—
there were riots in every corner
of India. Mahatma prayed. He
stopped eating. For seventy-two
hours he refused to eat. Be-
hold ! The miracle! Peace
descends like a homing crane on
every housetop. Calm is re-
stored. Hatred ceases. Love
replaces religious fury. That is
what the Master has achieved!”
Pandit Nehru was moved;
tears ran down his cheeks.
The listening worshippers of
Gandhi all knelt. They had
seen the horrors of which the
Prime Minister spoke.
Mr. Gandhi again came for-
ward ; he was so weak that even
with support he swayed as he
stood.
“The success of this last long-
drawn-out fast,’” the immense
black eyes glowed, “gives me
hope! Yes! It revives my wish
to live! My intense wish to
live —to serve humanity. My
dear children, I now feel con-
vinced that I shall live to be a
hundred! Yes! Perhaps to a
hundred-and-ten —some oracles 1
have consulted tell me —really—
that I shall live, even, to be a
hundred-and-thirty-six! ”
Gandhi pjaused to smile at
Pandit Nehru. He was speak-
ing, perhaps, to reassure his
friends.
Naturam Godse stood up, the
only upright figure in five hun-
dred kneeling worshippers.
While voices again began mur-
muring “Gandhi-ki-Jai,” “Vic-
tory for Gandhi,” Naturam
said “Mr. Gandhi, I repudiate
you.”
He fired three times from his
hip.
Each shot found its mark.
Gandhi fell, bleeding from gap-
ing chest wounds. His grand-
daughters kneeling beside him
tried to staunch the blood with
their white garments.
A young American, standing
next to Naturam, held him as
the police ran forward.
The worshippers, bowed to the
ground, did not at first see what
had happened, and they con-
tinued to rock backwards and
forwards, hypnotising themselves
with words.
“Gandhi-ki-Jai! ” “Victory
for Gandhi!”
TT was about this time that
the south-going lorries, still
moving through the fog, halted
at Sopor. It was snowing con-
tinuously. Each house door, as
they came to the village, had a
way cut through snow as firm as
rock. All the roof-trees held
drifts ; in those parts in winter
—and the winter still lingered
on in the Kashmir Valley—the
snow would lie thirty-feet deep.
The roofs slope, acutely, to
further its passage as it melts.
But, today, in this bleak
February weather, all was frozen.
About this time, in the vil-
lage of Dulai, the girl Leila, who
was nine years old, began mak-
ing preparations for her journey
to her bridegroom’s house,
across the Jhelum. For one rea-
son or another, but chiefly be-
cause he was so poor, her father
had found it hard to get her
married ; now all was arranged.
A herd of twelve Pashmina
goats—the “shawl-goats” of
Tibet—and a “moon-colored"
ass were to be her wedding-por-
tion, and her three brothers
were even then driving them in
from their distant pastures.
The child was being “diffi-
cult.” She wanted to take with
her a kid, her pet, and this her
parents could not afford to
allow. She begged, insistently
and with tears, to be allowed to
wear the charm of baked clay,
the talisman on which was in-
scribed a prayer of great
potency, which her mother had
always worn on a string round
her comely neck.
The Kashmiris, men and
women alike, are a beautiful
people. Some say it is the water
in that valley that brings such
beauty to the race. Certainly
the dew is so pure that steel
left out in it does not tarnish.
Though the women wear only
one shapeless garment, flowing


from neck to ankle, though they
affect, merely, a clout —it is
hardly a veil—thrown over their
hair, they have such a natural
majesty of gait, such grace, such
dignity, that even in these dis-
figuring clothes each woman —
following flocks, grinding corn,
tilling or reaping fields, guiding
a boat —strikes the beholder at
once as being nobly fashioned,
as being a superb creature.
All Kashmiris are pale of
flesh, regular of feature, per-
fectly proportioned, and the girl
Leila was a beauty outstanding
even in a land of beautiful
women. She was as lovely as a
branch of apple-blossom. Her
family, proud of her, had a nick-
name for her, “Tulip-cheek,”
that is, “Lalla Rookh,” the
name of a famous queen, known
in their legends.
nrHE lorries had left Sopor
-*■ and were at Baramula on the
day that Gandhi’s body was
cremated. This ceremony took
place at the Burning Ghat, out-
side New Delhi, on the banks
of the river Jumna. (The final
scattering of ashes was to take
place later, where the two sacred
rivers, the Jumna and the
Ganges, met.)
On a patch of sand, now,
thirty-two bricklayers, including
in their numbers eight Moslems,
were finishing the twelve-foot-
square stand on which the
funeral-pyre was to be raised
above the damp earth of the
river-bed. Near this, scattered
about the bank, were the piles
of combustibles and spices in-
tended to feed the sacred fire.
The bricklayers talked as they
worked.
“This labor makes my heart
a wilderness,” the youngest of
a group of four said, not pausing
in his work. “I have a wife and
three dear children, but now
that Gandhi has gone what hope
have we? I shall die; they will
be massacred ; what chance of
life have we?”
An older man reproved him.
“Think, brother! We have a
new god! We have seen a
saint become a god. There is in
heaven One we know well. One
whose face is familiar to us.
One whose voice has blessed us.
We have a friend to beg from,
not a stranger.”
“Ah, true, true,” a third man
murmured in agreement. “Ma-
hatma first will greet the old
gods—that is good manners-
then he’ll think of us, poor,
bereft, starving, deserted. When
Mahatma in heaven thinks of
us well feel a glow. We’ll cease
to know hunger or sorrow. Yes,
Well all grow strong and happy
and eat well. Our friends will
blossom in his thoughts. Never
again will a famine destroy us,
never again will a plague waste
us.”
The first speaker grew more
cheerful.
“Yes,” he allowed, “a rich
friend is a comfort. But to have
a new god is better. Mahatma
Gandhi knows our great need.
The old gods were too high in
heaven, they could not see the
poor crop, the sick-bed, the dry
river, the dead beast. But
Gandhi knows —he’ll lean out of
heaven and help us.”
“He’ll be our comfort. When
we find it hard to get our
daughters a husband he’ll help
us.”
The elder bricklayer was
silent. The overseer, accom-
panied by his assistant, had
clambered down the bank. They
had forced' a way through the
pressing crowds —some say there
were five-million people lining
the river-bank that day —and
they had come to take a tally
of the fuel that was to burn
Gandhi’s body.
'T'HE overseer had a list, and
he consulted it, saying “We
have three-thousand pounds of
sandal-scented logs, massive and
well-seasoned —a good price for
these —well, now, get those men
to lay them neatly on the bricks
and write down the numbers of
logs as they do this.”
The assistant called the men
and did as he was bidden.
“There are four hundred
pounds of sacred pepul-wood-*-
allow for the elephants who
broke the boughs off the trees
and dragged them here —say ten
elephants. Well, now. Where is
the purified butter?”
“Here, sir,” the assistant said,
taking his employer across to
the shade of a banyan-tree under
which the butter was stacked on
a bed of green leaves.
“Three hundred and twenty
pounds of butter - purified.
What is all this?”
“Those are rose-petals, sir,
from the Faithful. Thirty-two
pounds, mixed with rich spices,
cinnamon, cardamon and cam-
phor, and mingled with a resi-
due of frangipani flowers and
marigolds—the Family were
very much interested in this.”
“Oh, well —no charge! Is
this the last of our consign-
ment?”
“One hundred and sixty-four
pounds of jute and coconut —
this will give a good heat and
plenty of smoke.”
The overseer called the men
together.
“Well, brothers! You know
how to make a good column of
black smoke. You have made
a thousand pyres in your time.”
“Never before has a god gone
up through the smoke to heaven
—to the waiting gods,” the old
bricklayer said reverently.
“Well, well! Anyway, make
a good furnace; they’ll expect
a good blaze.”
The overseer moved back.
The Army truck on which
Gandhi’s body was laid (covered
with flags and flowers, the body
wrapped in white cotton, the
face visible, calm and unlined)
was now sliding down the planks
laid on the uneven river-sand
and bridging the gullies which
drained the banks. Gandhi’s
frantic worshippers three times
broke through the cordon of
soldiers and police ; each time
Lord Louis Mountbatten and
Pandit Nehru, shoulder to
shoulder, helped to press them
back. Devadas, Gandhi’s son,
Patel, the Premier, the three
Congressmen who were the chief
mourners, with them controlled
the mob round the pyre.
SOON the body, laid on the
pyre, was being anointed by
the priests with sacrificial
sandal-dust and spices ; in the
nostrils, in the ears and on the
eyelids. Soon, sprinkled with
water from the holy Ganges, it
was to be purified by fire.
Devadas set alight to the im-
mense pyre ; columns of black
smoke rose into the blue, cloud-
less sky; the kneeling millions
shouted “Gandhi - ki - Jai!”
“Victory for Gandhi!”
The fakir, a stranger, he who,
covered with grey ash, had
spoken to the coolie women on
the day of the assassination,
stood up against the flames, the
clouds of smoke, to say “But
the victory is not for Gandhi.
When the slayer thinks he slays
—he destroys nothing. Between
the slayer and the slain there is
no difference.”
He was unheard.
Ava and Manu were then sing-
ing into relays of loudspeakers
—amplifiers that made their
childish voices strong the
lament written for the occasion.
ABOUT this time the south-
coming lorries had reached
Domel, and after an hour’s de-
lay had started for Chakothi—
the village next to Dulai. The
lorries, in that clear air, could
be heard skidding on the frozen
road, and the laughter and
voices of the drivers could be
easily distinguished; the road
wound as the river twisted.
The mist still hid the convoy.
Leila’s parents were too poor
to give a marriage-feast. The
zemindah’s wife had sent them
some sweetmeats, and these,
standing about the doorway, the
girl and her three brothers ate,
while their father (the zemin-
dah’s shepherd) drove the bride’s
dowry —the Pashmina goats and
the ass—down to the river-edge.
Here a raft was kept. A rope
stretched across the swift-flow-
ing Jhelum made it possible to
ferry this craft across to the
opposite bank. There the young
bridegroom’s two friends, lads,
merely, as young as himself, had
come to carry the bride’s litter
(the way wks uphill and stony,
and the ass too young to ride)
while the bridegroom drove his
newly-gained herd.
The bride, who by her im-
portunity had at last persuaded
her mother to allow her to wear
the talisman, the clay medal in-
scribed with a prayer, more con-
tented, came down the slope to-
wards the river just as the first
lorry rounded the bend that
there carried the road through
the village.
The mist had lifted. The late-
afternoon sun, as red as an
orange, hung in a black, snow-
burdened sky, made clearly vis-
ible the least detail in the freight
the lorries carried; the heaped-
up bodies of dead men, on which,
bound with ropes, were the
stolen Hindu girls; captives
being carried back to Lahore,
or to the Punjab; the living
tied to the dead.
COR the marriage-party there
was no escape.
Leila was thrown onto the
first lorry, to which other girls
from her village, her playmates,
her companions, were brought,
to be once again in her com-
pany. The bodies of those girls
who had died on the journey
from Srinagar, Sopor, or nearer
villages, were flung onto the road
to make room for the living
girls.
Leila still kept her talisman.
She had wrenched it from her
neck and had hidden it in her
clenched hand. She kept whis-
pering to the children, her play-
mates, “Pray! Pray! There is
a god who will save us!”
Those who could speak whis-
pered urgently “Who? Who is
the god who can save us?”
Leila told them: “Jhani-ki-
Sungh—he is the god who kept
my mother safe —this is his
prayer!”
The other children prayed
with her, saying the words after
her, “I am the Light of the
World.” It was the charm in-
scribed on her clay medal. The
god she and her people had
worshipped for nearly a hun-
dred years was the soldier John
Nicholson, “The Lion of the
Punjab.” He still had his femples
and worshippers in those
northern villages.
The lorry-drivers had to reach
Murree before nightfall. They
bound the other girls with ropes
to the dead men ; but they took
Leila, because she was the most
beautiful, and tied her to a pole
set up against the cab of the
leading lorry.
FROM Dulai to Murree the
road goes by the river,
crosses a bridge and climbs the
steep hill till the pass into India
is reached. It is safe. Further
back, the road, so narrow, set
with the towering cliffs above,
the river below, is not safe. The
skeletons of beasts, the remains
of broken vehicles are to be
seen on the rocks below the high-
way. But here the road is safe.
The turns are not so sharp..
There was no hope of disaster.
There was not a light in Kohala
village as the lorries ran
through; in all that desolated
region there was no man left
who might have rescued the girls
the lorries were carrying in
triumph back to Rawal Pindi,
Peshawar, Lahore.
When Kohala was passed
snow began falling again. There
was a shower of rain. The
temperature dropped. But the
lorries rolled on through the
night, the drivers shouting and
singing in the cabins.
IT was after two in the morning
when they reached Murree
Bazaar. But the Mohammedan
inhabitants ran out with torches.
The lights of the lorries were
brilliant as day; there was light
enough to see, when the long
convoy halted, what freight the
raiders had brought from Kash-
mir.
The lamps, the blazing resin,
showed them the dead, frozen
bodies of the girls from Dulai;
snow-maidens, encased in ice.
Their prayers had been heard.
"I'll tell you how
to handle him"
by "GULLIVER"
TEA was over. The rest of
the men were yarning on
the veranda when Charlie
came back from the stables.
He flopped on the cool boards,
his back propped against the
wall.
“Mow’d the stallion go today,
Joe?”
“Never better. Walked along
with that cart like a machine,”
“No trouble at the crossing?”
“Not a bit. Never looked like
stoppin’.”
Charlie snorted. The book-
keeper grinned in the darkness.
“Now look, Charlie, maybe
it’s the way y’ handle him ...”
Charlie sat up. The book-
keeper coughed. But Joe went
on.
“Now I’ll tell y’, Charlie ...”
■jrjE’D always been reckoned a
good man among horses.
There weren’t many he couldn’t
ride, few he couldn’t make a
friend and get of their best, even
get what was in then minds.
And now, here he was, stuck in
the sand with a lumbering cart
and this useless jib of a stallion.
The dry river-bed, five- or six-
hundred yards wide, was a glar-
ing strip of yellow, dotted here
and there by clumps of gums. A
couple of hundred yards ahead
was the high, tree-fringed bank
—and when they’d get there only
God and the draught stallion
knew, it seemed. Better try
again, though.
“Hey, Duke! Giddap!”
The stallion’s ears flicked
back.
“Giddap!” The reins smacked
on the bay rump. Down, tight
down, went the tail, and Duke’s
heels crashed three times against
the cart.
“There you are! ” said Charlie
to the blackboy. “Speak to him
and he stands there. Crack him
and he kicks.”
“Maybe hurt himself that
way.”
“Yes —and smash the cart, too
Either way, I’m in the gun.”
The boy rolled a smoke. The
stallion swished flies. Charlie,
having long ago run out of
language, fell into a dumb rage.
“What we do now, Charlie?’’
“Do? Do, you black idiot?
Stay here till his Lordship’s kind
enough to wake up? Here, get
him out of those shafts! He’s
no damn’ good in them! ”
They led the horse up the
hank, tied him to a tree. They
carried their swags and tucker-
box and tools through the-coarse
scorching sand. Returning, they
turned the cart about and, heav-
ing on the wheels, dragged it
backwards, a foot or so at a
time, towards the bank. Soon
they were past speech, past
swearing; their shirts stuck to
them ; they heaved and shoved,
fell under the cart to rest,
crawled out to gain another few
feet.
They were an hour reaching
the bank, another halt-hour
gaining the top. The stallion
turned to snort at them.
“You . . . useless . . . b !”
Hanging on a wheel, Charlie
spat the last word at him, turned
to the boy.
“C’mon, Kuyu! Yoke him
up! Got to make the well before
sundown! ” ' .
Daylight. The stallion,
haltered to a tree, muriched his
morning feed while the two men
had breakfast and packed their
gear. >
“How far today, Charlie?”
“About six miles to the tank.
Fix the trough, stay
tonight, and go home tomorrow.”
“Get home in one day, you
reckon?”
“Easy—only fifteen miles —if
Duke walks along all right. Must
have been that sand that upset
him.”
“Crikey, he kick when you hit
him.”
“That’s why I stopped. Don’t
want to hurt a valuable horse.
You got to kid ’em along a bit,
these stallions. Come on, nearly
sunrise already!”
FOR the first couple of miles,
Duke stepped out smartly.
But maybe, as Charlie said after-
wards, he was thinking—think-
ing of yesterday. Then, he'd
stopped when he wanted to, gone
on when he wanted to. Perhaps
he could do it again. He slowed
down, looked round.
Absently, Charlie clucked to
him, slapped the reins on him.
The bay rump lifted, dropped,
lifted again; his heels shook the
“Oh, hell!' He’s at it again!”
Climbing down, Charlie took
his head, tried to lead him. Duke
was immovable.
“We’ll give him a spell—kid
to him a bit.”
They sat in the sand. Kuyu
smoked. Charlie, breaking off
occasionally to try the horse’s
temper, engaged in a kind of
cursing Olympiad which started
with the horse, extended to the
station, the Boss, himself, and
finally every stick, stone and salt-
bush north of the Murchison.
Half-an-hour later, the big
horse looked at them, took a step
or two. Once more they were
under way.
So it went all day, each halt
at shorter intervals, each of
longer duration. Kuyu, not
really caring when he got any-
where at all, was silent. Charlie,
frustrated and impotent, sat in
incandescent rage.
Here I am, he thought, stuck
in the scrub with the most useless
Godforsaken mongrel of a
horse . • • why in hell any sane
man ever bought him . . . what’s
it to the station, twenty
miles? ... a man ought to walk
there and quit and leave this
thing to die in the shafts . . .
twenty miles, my God, I’ve never
walked that far, it’d kill me . . .
I ought to kill him, I could do
it with the axe . . . don’t look
at me, you wall-eyed swine . . .
I’d shoot you if I owned you . . .
beaten by a no-good stallion . . .
a cart-horse !
“C’mon, Kuyu. The big lump
of blubber’s going to be kind
enough to walk another couple
of hundred yards.”
A couple of hundred yards it
was. They covered six miles in
eight hours that way.
Daylight again. Swags
rolled, gear packed. Home
today meant home for Sunday.
Charlie had missed a couple of
Sundays lately—the only day
off they got —didn’t want to miss
this one. He kicked sand over
the fire.
“Yoke him up, Kuyu. Nearly
sunrise.”
“That one make it in one day,
you reckon?”
“We’ll have a damn’ good try.
There’s a well half-way where
we can camp tonight. But I want
to get in—day off tomorrow.”
They started. Mile after mile,
the big bay tramped like a
Guardsman, Charlie leaving the
reins slack, letting him follow
the track.
“We get there tonight all
right, hey, Charlie?”
“Sure, if he keeps this up.
We’ll let him alone —he’s going
all right.”
(Continued on page 34)


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut
Special Latakia Pipe Mixture
in 2oz. packets at 28 / 6 per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31/6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under 11b.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
ďs
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cl high-priced imported
machines at only a trac-
tion ol their cost. The
■’National'’ Rotary DupU
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built entirely tn Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
Wkett uoa want a Awitr
make M/ietke mate/iM Ift
O. <r
•/_ f
<A,. <<7. *
.X
llpiiiii
i
iff IJ I I 11
i 1
J / .P
ftrusabev
TRADE MARK
of Quality
For 44 years Crusader has been weav-
ing cloth that competes with the best
made anywhere in the World.
Using only Pure Australian Fleece
Wool, her prize-winning Worsted
Cloths have easily become the standard
of Quality throughout our land.
You are cordially invited to inspect
the new 1952-53 range of Crusader
Suitings which are now available. Ask
your favourite tailor to show you his
attractive Crusader Pattern Book.
Every cloth is fully guaranteed never
to fade or shrink. Your tailor will
tell you Crusader Worsteds tailor well,
for they are the product of a Mill that
is proud of its Cloths.
So, when you want a good suit—a suit
you will want to wear because you
look your best in it, make sure your
material is Crusader—the Cloth that
has behind it 44 years of service and
satisfaction.
Crus ad ev doth
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Cl-113
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy new or secondhand copy of
Table of Integrals, by B. O. Pierce. —
5419.
Anyone got “Handy Hints for the
Farm” for a soldier-settler? —5420.
To buy Moore’s Story of Australian
Art (two vols.) —5421.
Rifle wanted, .375 Magnum or
similar. —5422.
Whereabouts of Robert Ross, who
arrived in Victoria from England
about two years ago with wife and
child. (Would anyone knowing any-
thing of him please get in touch with
his father, Mr. A. S. Ross, Star and
Garter Hospital, Richmond Hill,
London.)
(1) Date of testimonial-match to
Australian cricketer Victor Richard-
son? (2) Players taking part ? (3)
Scores and a few details of the
game ?
(1) Nov. 26-30, 1937. Actually the
game was a benefit for Clarrie Grim-
mett as well as for Richardson. (2)
Richardson’s team —C. L. Badcock,
K. E. Rigg, M. W. Sievers, A. G.
Chipperfield, S. J. McCabe, V. Y.
Richardson, R. H. Robinson, C. V.
Grimmett, W. A. Oldfield, W. J.
O’Reilly, E. L. McCormick. Brad-
man’s team —J. H. Fingleton, W. A.
Brown, D. G. Bjadman, A. L. Hassett,
R. G. Gregory, V. Jackson, L. C.
Hynes, J. G. Lush, C. W. Walker,
F. A. Ward, L. O’B. Fleetwood-Smith.
(3) Bradman’s XI 184 (Brown 42;
Sievers 4-27, Grimmett 3-39); Rich-
ardson’s XI 380 (Badcock 102,
McCabe 72, Richardson 42; Ward
4-71). Bradman was clean-bowled by
Grimmett for 17. Unfortunately for
Richardson and Grimmett the last
two days were washed out by rain.
The gate for the two days was £619.
Richardson announced his retirement
from first-class cricket after the match.
• * * ♦
My dog develops a bad itch every
summer—similar to what is called
Queensland-itch in horses. What is
it, and cure?
From the description of the symp-
toms and the anatomical position of
the lesions it would appear that this
condition is canine eczema. The exact
cause of the condition is not fully
understood, but it usually has some
dietary foundation. Too many sweet
things such as biscuits, sweets, sugar,
etc., and a diet too high in carbo-
hydrates will often predispose to this
condition. There is some evidence
also which suggests the condition may
be an allergic one. Treatment is
varied, and may consist of starving
the animal for 24 to 48 hours (water
only during this period); by a com-
plete change of diet cutting out all
sugars, starches and other carbo-
hydrates, and changing the form of the
meat in the diet (e.g., if the animal
was receiving cooked meat, then
change to raw meat, or vice-versa).
If the condition is the moist type, a
powder consisting of starch, calamine,
zinc oxide, chalk (equal parts) and
iodoform (1 p.c.) may be used. If the
condition is extremely irritable, a
cream consisting of 5 p.c. chloretone
in zinc cream can be used. Some ex-
cellent results have been obtained by
the use of anti-histamine drugs, but
it is usually necessary for these to be
administered by a veterinary surgeon
or under veterinary supervision.
* * * *
(1) How long has Archie Moore,
who won the world’s light-heavyweight
championship from Joey Maxim in St.
Louis ( tj.S.A .) on December 17 last,
been boxing? (2) Was Moore ever
in Australia, and, if so, who were the
boxers he fought here? (3) How old
is Moore, and what is his nationality ?
(1) Archie Moore began boxing late
in 1936, at St. Louis (U.S.A.), and
had been an outstanding contender
for the world light-heavyweight title
at least four years before Maxim
agreed to defend it against him. (2)
Moore came to Australia in 1939, and
knocked out Jack McNamee (round
four) in his first fight at Melbourne
Stadium. He also knocked out Ron
Richards (round 10) and Atilio Saba-
tino (round five) at Sydney Stadium,
then defeated Joe Delaney (Adelaide),
Frank Lindsay (Hobart), Fred Henne-
berry (k.o. round seven) and Ron
Richards (points 12 rounds). His last
two contests took place at Sydney
Stadium on June 27 and July 11,
respectively. (3) Moore is said to be
36 years old, and was born, an Ameri-
can negro, in St. Louis, Mo.
Brief Answers
J.McN.: The Dandenong foundered
off Jervis Bay (N.S.W.) on Sept. H>
1876. In a very heavy southerly gale
her screw-shaft broke and damaged
the after-bulkhead, so that she filled
and sank, drowning 40 people....
W.C.C.: Write Burns, Philp and Cos.,
Ltd., 7 Bridge-street, or W. R. Car-
penter and Cos., Ltd., 16 O’Connell-
street —b oth Sydney... .Lofty:
Earthenware or enamel may be used
instead of zinc. The system you de-
scribe for cooling a safe is quite un-
workable A.H.C.: Your request
for the whereabouts of one Robert
Ross is printed in the “Wants” section
at the top of this page. Suggest you
also contact the Commonwealth Im-
migration Dept., 18-20 York-street,
Sydney U.M.T.; (1) There has been
no Lord Mayor of Melbourne named
Caine. Councillor William Cain (no
final e ) was Mayor of the City for
the year 1886-87. This was some years
before the title of Lord Mayor was
conferred on the Mayor of the City of
Melbourne by King Edward VII. (2)
There is no. record of any sheep-
station carrying 300,000 sheep in the
N.S.W. Western Division during the
past 25 years... .V.L.G.: Write the
Bureau of Sugar Experiment Stations,
William-street, Brisbane (Q.)... .K.S.;
The Malabar went ashore at Long Bay
(Sydney) in heavy fog on April 3,
1931 TM-: The goddess Bail, in
the ancient city of Lagash (Sumeria),
was worshipped as the consort of the
chief god, Ningirsu J.M.M.: “Ali-
quot” designates a number which
divides a number greater than itself
without leaving a remainder; thus,
sis an aliquot part of 15; 7of 21
J.W.H.: The Australian pioneering
family the Faithfulls were mentioned
in an article "The Sad Demise of Mr.
Boston’s Pig,” by M. H. Ellis, in The
Bulletin of Nov. 26, 1952 8.K. :
David McKee Wright, the poet, died
op Feb. 5, 1928, A “Red Page” article
on him by Harold Mercer appeared
on Feb. 15, 1928... .L.M.: If you
measure very carefully you will find
that the angles along the diagonal do
not quite coincide. A narrow gap is
left along the diagonal, the area of
which is one sq. in V.R.K.: Ex-
communication in the Church of Eng-
land means the exclusion of an offend-
ing member from the rites—-and
privileges of the church, principally
the sacraments, and may be temporary
or permanent, partial or total
J.G.: In the circumstances you have
little chance of recovering arrears.
It is unlikely the pension department
would interfere... .FJ.C.: Yes, a
beneficiary may also act as executor.
Bill Will: No, the person employ-
ing a collector pays him K. 8.:
During the 1939-45 war, whale-oil was
used in Britain in the manufacture
of margarine. However, now that
copra can again be imported, this
product forms the main ingredient,
and animal- and vegetable-fats are
added to make the margarine. The
source of the vegetable-fat is chiefly
peanut-oil. In Australia copra is the
chief ingredient of margarine, and
some peanut-oil is used. The copra
is imported from islands north of
Australia, and the peanuts mostly
grown in Quensland... .Alex. McF.:
Thanks for verse; have posted it on.
Robert M.: (1) Write Vic. De-
partment of Mines. (2) Write W.A.
Department of Mines... .L.: (1) Both
Mrs. and Miss are contracted forms
of Mistress, used in this case as a
title of courtesy prefixed to the name
of a woman, married or single. It
seems to have been in the 17th century
that “Mrs.” superseded “Mistress” in
this sense; the first record of its use
is in 1582. (2) The first known use
of the contraction “Mr.” (originally
derived from “Master”) is in 1447.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
V.C.: “Outback Summer” is not
exactly hot stuff... .C.S.C.: For the
critical comment you ask for one re-
quires a pellucid serenity of mind;
which persists in the effort of decipher-
ing your handwriting R.L.P.: Sug-
p st you put “Scone” in the oven....
0.M.E. : No perch here for your
rhythmical rooster... .D.8.L.: “This
little piece came to me while strolling
through King’s Cross.” See if you
can’t pick up another little piece with
feet not quite so flat R.0.J.; It
has indeed a kind of triumphant roar-
ing, like a bull, or a pneumatic-drill.
Montmorency Mousetooth: Come
in and trill:
Oh ! Cicada.
[Dear Mr. Editor, —’Twas a hard day's
work chasing that lyrical locust.]
Oh ! Cicada —Cicada—Cicada,
You once rid me of my lovesick, ardor;
Her name was Matilda —she reckoned I
thrilled her
With my ardor —sick-ardor —Cicada.
Oh ! insistent—consistent—Cicada,
I was forced by your ilk to discard her
And who should but take her—a floury
baker • J
And now the poor man must work harder.
Oh! Cicada it was on a Sunday
That I captured a shrill Yellow Monday
And I frightened Matilda—l jolly near
killed her
With the drumming and humming—
Cicada.
Well, Cicada, you discordant insect.
Your voice —now I’ve come to reflect—
Reminds me of hers—and my memory
stirs
To when I lost my sick-ardor, Cicada.
R.A.W.: “The Shearer’s Hang-
over” didn’t go over W.M.; A
rich situation with a cheap ending
D.L.: Trouble with complaints about
naughtiness, they’re never as interest-
ing as the subject R.A.W.Y.: “The
Voice in the Jungle” didn’t speak our
lingo D.J.H.; Your sleepwalker
was happiest, safely insulated from
the nightmare complexities of your
storyl.. .M.G.: Not bad until the
brilliant ending cast a cloud over all
that had gone before A.J.P.: Tilli-
valli M.L.: Childish J.W.:
Korea-plane story nice, but not for
us J.M.; “Shotgun Affair” nearly
but not quite.. . .J.Q.: Often we think
that if anyone had a really good racing
system or lurk he wouldn’t be making
a story out of it G.T.: Very
pretty, but not for us S.Y.R.; The
idea is all right, but you don’t quite
make the people believable L.H.;
Alas, your imaginary people seem no
more credible than your real people.
. ...S.N.E.: “Life” is mostly froth
and bubble.


Australian Historical Sketches
A Learned Speculation About
Mrs. Putland’s Trousers
By M. H. ELLIS
-7- HOUGH it is 145 years
/ this week since the down-
y j fall of Governor Bligh, his
name is still almost as
well-known to Australians as that
of tennis-stars and leading
jockeys.
Few of his contemporaries
loved him, even though they
happened to be on his own side.
Caley, Banks’s discerning col-
lector, who professed to be
“unbiased by prejudice and
untainted by corruption,”
admitted that Bligh’s “meaning
was for the general interest of
the colony,” but declared that he
was “not thoroughly acquainted
with the disposition of the
people, was deficient in policy
and erred in judgment,” that he
was, moreover, “a man whom
Nature intended to be the subject
of abuse.” Macquarie found him
“most disagreeable” . . . “a very
improper person to be employed
in any situation of trust or
command.”
His past record, as known in
the colony, was not likely to
prepossess the inhabitants in his
favor. Jde had failed to control
the Bounty situation, and after-
wards had pursued the most
innocent of those involved with
an unremitting venom, doing his
best to have the young midship-
man, Heywood, hanged, though
that youth, reprieved, afterwards
lived to become a distinguished
naval officer of whom his
associates spoke nothing but
good.
Bligh’s naval career at sea had
ended in H.M.S. Warrior, when
a court reprimanded him for his
behavior to one of his officers,
and “admonished him in future
to be more correct in his
language.”
His voyage to New South
Wales, like most of his other
main voyages, had been made
notable by a rousing quarrel.
Captain Short was ordered by
the Admiralty to take command
of the convoy which brought the
new Governor out.
Short having been ignomini-
ously arrested at Bligh’s orders,
his. court-martial did an almost
unprecedented thing. It wrote
unofficially to the Admiralty
pointing out that charges
against Short by two officers had
been instigated by Bligh; that
the latter had robbed Short of
the command of his ship, refused
him the grant of land ordered by
the Home Government, obliged
him to return home with his ail-
ing wife and six children in a
leaky ship, with the result that
the wife and one child died on
the voyage. Poor Short had in
consequence of all this and more
been left in great indigence and
distress, his life wrecked, his
family broken up, his health
destroyed, and all because of a
quarrel forced on him which the
secretary to the Colonial Office
adjudged to have arisen from
“trivial causes.”
+ +
Short’s case received special
consideration on the recommen-
dation of the court-martial. No
doubt the colony held its own
court-martial, and that with
some prejudice against its new
viceroy, for from the first his
actions did not endear him.
Bligh arrived on August 6,
1806, He stayed with Governor
King at Government House
privately, did not land officially
till the Bth, and did not assume
the Government until the 14th.
During his sho*rt period as a
private citizen in the colony King
had granted him considerable
blocks of farmland. In the fol-
lowing January he granted Mrs.
King, wife of Governor King,
790 acres in the Evan district
out by South Creek to be known
as Thanks.
And he certainly owed the
King family some “thanks,” for
King’s grant to himself hadJbeen
the choice 240 acres of Camper-
down, on the Sydney-Parra-
matta road adjoining the present
university grounds, plus 105
acres for a residence at Parra-
matta (which Macquarie after-
wards recouped for the Female
Factory), plus 100 acres on the
Hawkesbury road, to be known
as Copenhagen.
Not satisfied with this, he
bought three blocks totalling 280
acres on the Hawkesbury near
Pitt Town, and started to stock
and cultivate them with Govern-
ment labor and under the control
of Andrew Thompson, a pros-
perous but not-much-esteemed
ex-convict Chief Constable of
the Hawkesbury district. It was
a “very fine estate,” and —accord-
ing to John Blaxland and others,
who seem to be corroborated by
his own agent—he stocked these
properties from the Government
herds, and certainly used some
Government labor in running
them.
It was said by Surgeon Harris
that he had “forty or fifty men
at work on his properties in
October, 1807.” A Deputy Com-
missary, Robert Fitz, gave
evidence at ♦the examination of
officers after Bligh’s arrest that
Governor Bligh has been supplied
with clothing for all his servants,
and for which I believe no charge
is made in the books of the office.
The Governor has also been supplied
with spirits from the bonded store,
and at one time took for his use a
quantity of port wine, and a few
days prior ordered wine to be pur-
chased from Mr. Campbell at £3 10s.
per dozen for the use of the General
Hospital.
He also gave evidence that
27 convicts working on Bligh’s
farm were victualled from the
public purse, apart from the men
of Lieutenant Putland, Bligh’s
son-in-law, who also had
acquired a farm —he had seven
Government - victualled men.
Thompson himself swore to live-
stock being drawn for the
Governof from the public stores,
and that Bligh had built a shed
on his farm 200 ft. long, boarded
and shingled, a barn ■ 50ft. by
18ft., and two brick houses which
he “imagined would cost an
individual upwards of £1000” (a
great sum in those days). All
these buildings were “completed
by laborers of the Crown.”
Nine working-oxen were gener-
ally employed, fed from the
public stores. There were other
irregularities. Yet the Governor
probably would have been
pardoned all of them if he had
been tolerant towards others.
But he wasn’t. While he
feathered his own nest he raged
against the greed and corruption
of his subjects, pulled down their
houses on town leases, refused
John Macarthur his ' lawful
grants in the Cowpasture.
Soon everybody was reporting
his favoritism, his use of Gov-
ernment facilities and his
violence. The sane and sober
Alexander Berry, founder of the
Shoalhaven, a shrewd com-
mercial trader and no firebrand,
reported a surly encounter with
him, and that he nearly hanged
poor Captain Pattison of the
City of Edinburgh. John
Macarthur reported him shout-
ing: “What have I to do with
your sheep, sir? What have I
to do with your cattle? Are
you to have such flocks? You
have got 5000 acres of land, sir,
but by God you shall not keep
it!”
Mr. John Blaxland spoke of
his “laughing at the laws of Eng-
land,” and reported that he had
been heard to say “What does
he care for them? He shall make
laws for New South Wales which
every son of a bitch shall obey.”
Surgeon Harris, whom he had
deprived of lucrative offices, de-
cided as early as October, ,180 7 .
that “Caligula never reigned with
more despotic sway than he does.
He destroys and makes away
with all private property, saying
everything is his—that that fool
[Governor] King had no power
or authority to grant leases.”
Certainly Bligh had the
faculty of making powerful
enemies. Macarthur and Blaxland
were both well thought of in high
circles in London, the white
hopes, so to speak, of the Home
Government’s new policy of
pastoral-development and wool-
production. Harris had been a
favorite of King, who was in
London, none too pleased at hav-
ing been superseded, and not
without personal influence.
Johnston was the former mess-
mate and friend of the Duke of
Northumberland. And D’Arcy
Wentworth, whom Bligh had
court-martialled and repri-
manded publicly on parade for
something in which the victim
was certainly in the right, could
be the most deadly of all with
the patronage of Lord Fitz-
william behind him, and the
commendations of every
previous Governor recorded to
his credit at the Colonial Office.
+ +
To these not only Bligh’s
crimes but his friendships were
an offence; for his intimates
included “Little Jack” Palmer,
the Commissary, occupier of a
well-enriched post, one of the
band of civilian brothers
who had been fighting the
military and private dealers for
the loaves-ahd-fishes of trade
ever since Phillip’s day. Robert
Campbell, who had superseded
Harris in numerous privileges,
had established himself as a
deadly rival of all the old trading
hands.
The officers and great settlers,
however, were not all the ele-
ments with whom Bligh was
soon at loggerheads. He was at
war with every trader in spirits,
opulent or humble which
meant nearly every businessman.
He was at cross-purposes with
the bulk of the convict com-
munity, whose punishments he
increased and whose eyes he
damned at every opportunity.
He had earned the undying
hatred of the Irish by his treat-
ment of Michael Dwyer and
other patriot “exiles,” not
criminally convicted, who, he
convinced himself, were about
to launch an odious insurrection.
He allowed Dwyer and Morris
to be sentenced by a court to
1000 lashes each and exile to
Norfolk Island, sending orders
after Morris that, as he had
received only 525 lashes before
leaving, he was to have the rest
on the island. No scrap of real
evidence has been published to
justify this brutality.
Finally, he earned the enmity
of the rank-and-file of the New
South Wales Corps, which, what-
ever its demerits and naughti-
nesses, had always hitherto been
loyal to authority and steady in
emergency. He shouted at
officers in front of men, abused
the sergeants and rank-and-file
in rude naval language in pub-
lic. And one feels, probing
cautiously for the real root-
causes which made the rebellion
practicable, that it was possibly
a little-regarded incident with
these troops which fixed the idea
of insurrection in somebody’s
head.
It happened in old St. Phillip’s
Church (it was always spelt with
two Ts”), which stood in the
site of Lang Park, opposite
where the Wentworth Hotel now
stands. The church was then
unfinished, and no doubt its
rickety fabric trembled a little
as farmer George’s eight bells
rang out in its tower that Sun-
day to mark the approach of
Governor Bligh,
Inside everything was nor-
mal. The soldiers were on their
side of the aisle in scarlet and
powdered queues. Their band
waited eagerly to boom forth
“God Save the King” and earn
new boots, the wages of their
musical efforts. The orphans
from the school in Bridge-street
whispered in their gallery. The
convicts mourned their fate in
their pen. And in its proper
station the captain’s color-
guard stood rigid, the light
from the windows shining on its
blue and scarlet and gold. All
was peace. Even the Reverend
Samuel Marsden, with his blood-
and-hellfire technique, was far
away, and the soft-voiced Irish
exile, the Reverend Henry Ful-
ton, was peeping round the
vestry-door waiting to begin.
Into the midst of this drowsy
concourse strode Bligh, “this
boisterous and ostentatious little
old man,” in full rig, his staff
clanking behind, his daughter,
Mrs. Putland, “a nice little
figure,” on his arm. And at
once life was injected into the
scene.
The vice-regal party took its
place. The soldiers gazed at
them, straightened, began to
grin. Their mirth communi-
cated itself. They nodded and
winked. The whole church
seemed suddenly galvanised to
attention. Even Mr. Atkins, the
boozy Judge-Advocate, dozing
in his pew, noticed the swaddies
“in a highly indecent and im-
proper manner making faces,
looking over each other’s
shoulders” and “fixing their
eyes” upon poor Mrs. Putland
in a manner which evidently
“alarmed her very much.” In-
deed, she presently became agi-
tated and burst into tears, thus
attracting the notice of her
terrible father.
Now, if there was one human
being for whom the Tyrant of
New South Wales had a soft
spot it was his daughter. To see
her weep was more than he could
bear. Rising majestically, he
gave her his arm. And she weep-
ing and he a very thundercloud,
ihey fared forth solemnly from
the church, heedless of the wor-
ship that was going on. Accord-
ing to an unfriendly witness, Mrs.
Putland “shammed a faint,”
Then what a hullabaloo burst
forth! The soldiery were sum-
moned and felt, not without
reason, that they might be about
to enter the presence of their
Maker. The officers were sum-
moned and came trembling,
Bligh raged at them all. He
abused Lieutenant Cadwallader
Draffin. He cursed Lieutenant
Archibald Bell. And when Mr,
Minchin, the adjutant, a thread-
paper fellow who certainly did
not put the sparkle into Min-
chinbury, ventured that his men
had been laughing at an “arch-
drummer” who had picked up a
feather and put it into a hole in
another fellow’s hat the Gover-
nor almost burst.
He shouted that the excuse
was “a patched-up story of the
wretches, and swore that if any-
body dared to offer him an in-
sult he would have the villain’s
head off.” He told Mr. Minchin
that they might as well say that
the drummer had put a feather
into a portion of a sergeant’s
anatomy where feathers do not
grow and laughed at that. And,
adding politely that the members
of the Corps were creatures who
looked more like jail-birds than
anything else, he sent a whole
bench of them off to confinement
for several days without trial,
and went raging through the
settlement.
Every time he saw a soldier
he insulted him. He called one
a “tremendous b r.” He
yelled at a gaggle of convicts
who were displaying the “Gov-
ernment stroke” that they ought
to go to the store and get their
red jackets. He made a sergeant
pull down his house. And when
he saw a smile on a military face
he went purple and inarticulate.
-I- +
Now, all too little attention
has been given by chroniclers to
emphasising the immediate
effects of this strange incident of
Sunday, September 27, 1807.
It was in the days which fol-
lowed it that Major Johnston,
later commander of the rebel-
lion, went over to the enemy and
wrote to Colonel Gordon, the
Commander-in-Chief s private
secretary, asking the Duke of
York to prevent Bligh’s inter-
ference with his command and
his abuse and imprisonment of
the soldiery. It was in the month
which followed that public
opinion hardened, that all the
chroniclers of Bligh’s doings
took up their pens and filled
their inkpots with fury.
It was then, as it dawned on
the Governor’s enemies, that the
New South Wales Corps, the
Irish, the leading settlers would
be in any insurrection in large
majority, that there was found in
a barrack-yard written upon a
large piece of paper the ominous
words: Oh, temporal Oh,
mores! Is there no Christian in
New South Wales to put a stop
to the tyranny of the Gover-
nor ?”
All the new air of decision
obviously stemmed from some-
thing about Mrs. Putland when
she went to church that Sunday
morning and which made the
soldiery laugh and wink.
It is strange that no historian
has ever been curious about this
highly decisive factor associated
with the lady which turned the
tide towards revolution.
What was it?
I think perhaps Mr. Judge
Advocate Ellis Bent, who came
with Macquarie two years
later and turned for a moment
a blushing gaze on Mrs.
Putland, may have provided us
with the solution.
He it was who described her
“nice little figure,” and told how
she jvas “conceited and affected
.... everything studied about
her her walk her talking
everything.” He also wrote:
She dresses with some taste, very
thinly, and to compensate for want
of petticoats wears breeches or
rather trowsers.
Was it this that caused the
laughter? It is a nice subject for
speculation: Did Mrs. Putland
wear her new unmentionables to
church on Sunday, September
27, 1807, thus moving the rude
colonial soldiery to astonished
ribaldry? Was it her nether
coverings and not John Mac-
arthur that really brought
about the revolution of January
26, 1808?
Were hers, as it were,
The trews that launched a thousand
ships
And burnt the topless towers of
Ilium?


.X.-
■n
HM
m
mm
»>xx
X
■£ <, 'S, i
Pill
■m
W\
N
31—.
II
a
Ml
s
11
■
IMi
•;■ :-.v.
■
mm
M
W§ms
Wmh
mm
Wom
mmm
: Sgsm.
m
SPORTING NOTIONS
Apex, winner of the A.J.C.
Challenge Stakes from La Hey
and Bankbrook, was second-last
early in the race. La Hey ran
into trouble on two occasions,
and appeared unlucky to lose.
Apex is probably one of the
best sprinters by Mildura. The
Randwick meeting, first day of
the holiday fixture, sav( three
favorites successful and no real
outsider in the seven-event pro-
gramme.
Lionel Israel, Segenhoe
(Scone, N.S.W.) studmaster,
saw Toni Gul, one of the pro-
geny of his imported stallion
Nilo, win the opening event, the
Sledmere Handicap. The Nile’s
have made an excellent start;
his oldest progeny are two-year-
olds. Nilo is a son of unbeaten
Nearco, leading sire in Great
Britain for three seasons. Toni
Gul, raced by Fred Paul and J.
K. Monro, is a well-developed
filly from Carbethon, a Beau
Pere (imp.) mare from Clarada
by Claro (imp.) from Humorada
by Comedy King (imp.). With
such a background Toni Gul
could develop into a stayer. A
bold goer, she was heavily
backed from 5 to 2 to 11 to 8.
It was her second race-start, but
she had done well enough at
first appearance to warrant the
solid support. The filly is a
half-sister to All Spirit, who won
Sydney races a few seasons
back, and comes from the
Maniapoto family. Maniapoto,
a New Zealand stayer, won the
A.J.C. Metropolitan and other
distance events.
In one of the poorest Novice
fields to have competed at
Randwick for some time New
Zealand-bred Rue Le Havre won
the mile-and-a-half because he
had a pull in weight, was ridden
by that master of tactics in dis-
tance events, Noel McGrowdie,
and is bred to stay for a week.
The four-year-old Ruthless
(imp.) gelding hadn’t shown
much in the few races in which
he had competed, but his trainer,
Bill Stripe, formerly of Adelaide,
was keen on his prospects at 12
furlongs. He had tried him as
a modest stayer by giving him
a lot of long work at Rosebery,
and the gelding had shown more
than useful promise. Rue Le
Havre’s dam. Orange Pink, is
an imported mare, though that
fact wasn’t mentioned in the
racebook. She was imported to
N.Z. for stud purposes only, and
was got by King Salmon from
Martinal by Blandford from
Dawn Wind by Sunstar, a line
of stayers. Ruthless is a son
of Hyperion. Rue Le Havre is
closely related to an unbeaten
English galloper, Tiffin (£16,156),
also to Beau Le Havre (hence his
name).
Backers were on. the spot in
most of the seven races at
Moonee Valley on Saturday.
Two-year-old Solar Slipper won
her second successive face and
Blue Aura landed the second
division of the juvenile event.
Blue Aura is a St. Magnus (imp.)
youngster from unraced Gay-
sure, a half-sister to Fearless,
Randwick and Flemington win-
ner, and is similarly related to
Plutus, winner of several Sydney
races a few seasons ago. Gay-
sure is a Pantheon (imp.) mare
from Gaiment (imp.) by Gay
Crusader. Blue Aura is trained
at Mentone by Tom Woodcock,
who, it will be remembered, was
associated with champion Phar
Lap.
In winning the £2500 William
Reid Stakes with 9.4 Flying Halo
drew attention to prospects in
the V.R.C. Newmarket, for
which he is now a popular
choice. He beat Laurie Hussar,
also well fancied for the New-
market, weights for which will
not be out till next week.
Dark Felt, who won the 1943
Melbourne Cup, has a promising
relative in Q.T.C. winner Won-
der Blue, who opened her
“George ALWAYS knows where they are .”
account in the City View
Nursery at Eagle Farm last
Saturday. Wonder Blue was sold
by Woodlands Stud Farm at
Randwick easter sales last April.
She cost 425 guineas, and is by
Newtown Wonder (imp.), sire of
speedy early winners, and is
from Woodstand by Mr. Stand-
fast (imp.) from Loloma (sister
to Dark Felt) by Spearfelt, Won-
der Blue was an outsider, and
scrambled home by the barest
margin—a nose.
Brisbane’s two - year - olds
Hieroglyph and Toshah, who
won three races each in their
own city, were well trounced at
Randwick last Saturday. Neither
was equal to a place, after show-
ing a bold front to the straight.
The holding track might have
been against them, but their de-
feats cost Queenslanders a for-
tune.
• • • •
Country gallopers brought to
capital cities or near-by tracks
to race often create a favorable
impression at their first appear-
ance, but the form is discounted
at subsequent outings. How-
ever, one galloper likely to go
on to better things is Cassie-
bawn, winner of a Three-and-
four-year-old Maiden at Gos-
ford (N.S.W.). His performance
was so striking that offers were
quickly made to secure him for
city racing, but his owners, Mrs.
M. A. Coward and her daughter
Miss R. A. Coward, returned
the gelding to his home-town,
Cowra, where he is trained by
D. Spence. Country jockey
Lance Smith had an armchair
ride, but he should abandon a
habit of continually looking
round to see where opponents
are. This has lost many a race,
apart from bringing the censure
of stewards. Cassiebawn, a 525-
guineas yearling, is from the
same family as Manfred,
Martian, Delta and Tea Rose, so
he has something to live up to.
He is a three-year-old by Valiant
Chief (son of Heroic), from
Veiled Mist by Veilmond from
Trojan Miss by Iliad (imp.) and
tracing back to Multiform,
Yearlings sold at the New
Zealand sales, which concluded
last Friday, will be racing in
various parts of Australia next
season, while half a dozen at
least will be advertising
Dominion studs in South
America. A Monte Video agent
secured several lots for Uru-
guayan buyers—quite a new de-
parture. Australian money-
quota restricted operations of
visitors from this side of the
Tasman. Perth owner and sports-
woman Mrs. C. Shirini secured
a filly by Underwood (imp.), a
son of Bois Roussel from
Golden Beauty by Chatsworth
(imp.) from Court Favorite by
Iliad (imp.). The youngster is
closely related to Versailles, a
brilliant galloper and Randwick
winner some seasons back. Perth
winner of the Breeders’ Plate
and Sires’ Produce, Blue Stream,
is also in the family lines, which
probably influenced Mrs. Shirini
to buy the yearling. Randwick
trainer Tommy Smith made 10
purchases for patrons.
Delta’s colors will be carried
by the 3000gns. yearling pur-
chased by Adolph Basser at the
N. sales. Randwick trainer
Maurice McCarten made the
final bid, and the colt may be
racing late this year. Bred by
G. M. Currie at his Koatanui
property at Wanganui, the colt
is a half-brother to Servile, a
New Zealand winner, and is
closely related to A.J.C. Derby
winner Channel Rise, also to
speedy filly Cultured. His sire,
Timanova (imp.), is a grandson
of Hyperion, while his dam, Sub-
dued, is by Ringmaster (imp.)
from Submission by Limond
(imp.). Subdued was unbeaten
in five starts as a two-year-old,
while Submission also won five
races. The colt comes from a
team of winners, and has good
looks and the build of a potential
big-stakes winner, possibly
another Delta.
It was no surprise to Randwick
trainers when Frank Dalton was
final bidder at 2200 guineas for
the Midday Sun (imp.)-Cairness
colt at New Zealand’s sale of
yearlings. Cairness is dam of
Taressa, trained by Dalton for
Sir James and J. C. Fletcher, of
Alton Lodge Stud, Te Kau-
whata, when she won last year’s
Tattersall’s Gup at Randwick.
The same well-known N.Z.
sportsmen bred Taressa’s half-
brother, who is similarly related
to Gold Script (12 wins and
£12,860 in stakes) and crack
youngster of his year. Cair-
ness, by Tideacre (imp.) from
My Own by Lord Quex (imp.),
is a sister to Tidal Wave (Rose-
hill Guineas) and a half-sister
to Yours Truly (15 wins, includ-
ing the N.Z. Cup and the
Moonee Valley Cup). Yours
Truly raced in Tasmania after
Sydney. He, too, had been
trained at Randwick by Dalton.
* * *
The Springboks made only
one change in their side for the
fourth Test at Adelaide —open-
ing-bowler Fuller for Murray,
out with appendicitis. Tayfield,
handicapped by his damaged
left thumb, was included in. The
Aussies were the same bunch
that lined-up for the previous
two Tests, with young Craig to
make the dozen. Hassett per-
formed successfully for Australia
one of the most important jobs
that befall captains—that of win-
ning the toss —and then hit up
some valuable runs-, while Mc-
Donald did a like job as an open-
ing bat; Morris once more
failing.
In Sydney Victoria and N.S.W.
began their game a day late, rain
washing-out play on Friday.
Victoria, sent in to bat, made
only 169, Balmain leg-spinner
Pearce bagging 5 for 56.
In their second encounter in
Tassie, the S’Africans again had
little trouble disposing of the
local boys. They won both
games in the Speck by an innings
and 100 runs or so. Principal
destroying - agent was Melle,
whose final effort was 9-22, to
give him the excellent figures of
21 wickets for 100 for the two
games. Tas. 131 (Rodwell 65;
Fuller 6-38) and 65 (Melle 9-22);
S. Africa 3-294 (McGlew 110
n. 0., Waite 90, Watkins 78).
Victoria beat Queensland out-
right by seven wickets, with a
day left for play. Both sides
hit out brightly in their first
knocks, but Q. went down badly
in the second. Test left-hander
Bill Johnston was mainly
responsible —his 6-54 follows his
8-52 in the earlier Vic.-v.-Q.
tussle. Q. 301 (K. Archer 96;
Johnston 4-92) and 149
(Johnston 6-54); Vic. 365 (Ring
76) and 3-88.
* * *
British lightweight champion
Frank Johnson bagged the
Empire title by giving Australian
champ. Frank Flannery the
father of a lacing at Melbourne
Stadium. Knowing more about
boxing than the Flannery had
ever dreamt of, Johnson stood
off, placing timed punches pretty
to watch and competently evad-
ing the haymakers which entirely
constituted the Australian
ordnance. Flannery was alter-
nately going down to neat place-
ments and by the impetus of his
own wild right swings when the
ref. kissed him goodnight in the
tenth.


The
Mutual Life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagli
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C,
Assets Exceed £81,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£13,000,000.
M. 0. ALDER, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
CRIPPLING RHEUMATIC MINS
quickly eased with
TRADE MARK I
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
• During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
. DOLCIN is non-toxic. .
. DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
. DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years. ..' J .. . .
• 1,100,000,000 tablets have been administered throughout
the world:
. DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
. DOLCIN is obtainable from your chemist.
ris*
utfA
rH e
tICA
SCIA
PUT' 5
ne u
bA6°
lU^
e ffS
RtV
901?“
100 TABLETS FOR 12/4
DOLCIN
Informative literature on Dolcin
will be sent on request to Dolcin
(Australia} Pty. Ltd., Box TSS2,
G.P.0., Ttydney.
D 4.2
They sought them to hunt Ned Kelly
Queensland
Native Mounted Police
By HENRY G. LAMOND
AUTHOR’S NOTE: This has been written after much
research ; from information gained by correspondence
and conversation with old officers of the corps over the
past 30 years; from my own personal experiences and
recollections. I was born in an N.M.P. camp ; I was
reared among them —my father was a sub-inspector of
the N.M.P.
THE Queensland Native
Mounted Police was
formed in 1848 —before
Queensland was a separate
colony. It was the first police
force in what is now known as
Queensland. It died as a
separate unit at some unspecified
date, probably about 1900; a
painless demise of absorption—
taken ovej: and assimilated by
the regular Queensland police.
Perhaps relics of it may yet
remain: in sqme outback
station there may be an old
blackboy who proudly calls him-
self a “trooper.” That was his
rank in the N.M.P.
Back in 1848 the squatters of
the Burnett and Condamine dis-
tricts realised if they wanted
anything done they would have
to do it themselves. The blacks
were bad in those days (the
term “blacks” is not used in any
deprecatory sense; it was the
expression then in vogue:
“blacks” were semi-civilised
aborigines ; “myalls” were those
who were wild and untamed ; a
''‘boy” was an abo. buck of any
age from infant to senility).
Those early squatters had to
guard their lives, their families,
their flocks and herds, their
belongings.
So they levied themselves to
form a police corps. There
choice fell on Frederick Walker
to run it. Known as “Fili-
buster,” he had been successful
in a like job in N.S.W. They
commissioned him to form a
corps of Native Mounted Police.
It is presumed that the
authorities in Sydney, who then
governed the Moreton Bay
Settlement, approved of the idea.
If the race of politicians has not
changed, they were no doubt
only too glad to be rid of the
trouble and to let others pay
for it.
Filibuster came. He brought
with him as second-in-charge
one Lieut. Marshall.
Perhaps—and it is very likely
—Filibuster and his troops rode
with light trigger-fingers. There
is a survival of such expressions
as “punitive expeditions,” “sum-
mary justice,” “salutary lessons.”
But that early N.M.P. set an
example which the later more
regular corps followed: they
did their duty.
Old maids of both sexes of
today may pretend to shudder
in horror over the methods used
by the N.M.P. If they have
Australian lineage long enough,
and consider for a moment, they
may realise they are alive now
because the early N.M.P. pro-
tected their ancestors.
That is brief. It suffices.
After a few years actual
records are unavailable —the
squatters who subsidised the
N.M.P. tired of paying money
which they considered “th’ Guv’-
ment” should provider They
had an idea the blacks had been
taught a lesson; it was safe to
do without police protection.
They gave Filibuster a vote of
thanks and the sack. They dis-
banded the corps.
That was an error of judg-
ment. The blacks may have
been taught a lesson ; they had
also learned that a disorganised
rabble of scattered whites, with
no disciplined body to back
them up, made easy prey. In
addition, they added to their
native cunning much knowledge
they had gained from the whites.
It took them no time at all
to appreciate that the N.M.P.
.was not on the job. They raided,
killed and robbed with fine im-
partiality. It is beside the point
whether the method of treating
them was, or was not, correct.
That was the way they
responded.
Things became so hot, so out
of hand, that even the Govern-
ment in Sydney had to take
notice. It commissioned Fili-
buster Walker to reform the
corps.
This second birth took place
in 1857. That was the year the
Hornet Bank massacre occurred.
The whole of the Fraser family
was murdered—all except one
baby boy, Willie. It was Fili-
buster who led the punitive expe-
dition, who gave the blacks a
salutary lesson and imposed
summary justice.
The boy Willie, when he grew
to manhood, was commonly
supposed to have a right granted
by the Queensland Government
to shoot blacks at sight. Many
are the tales still told of how
Willie shot ’em on the wing and
dropped ’em runnin’. A few
years ago the late Andrew Scott,
a son of the original Andrew
who then owned Hornet Bank,
on the Upper Dawson, stated in
a broadcast talk that he doubted
if Willie Fraser ever shot a
blackfellow in his life.
Separation, which made
Queensland a distinct colony,
took place in 1859. It would
seem, though no records are
available, that Filibuster was not
happy with the Queen-street,
Brisbane, politicians. Sir George
Bowen was Governor; R. C. W.
Herbert was Premier. Filibuster
resigned in 1860.
Ever adventurous, Filibuster
Walker went to the Gulf of Car-
pentaria to look for Burke and
Wills. He died near Floraville
on November 15, 1866. It is
presumed he was another victim
to what was then called “Gulf
fever” —possibly a form of
malaria. He was buried where
he died. That real originator of
the Queensland Police of today
did not get a State funeral. He
lies in an unmarked grave.
When Filibuster resigned G.
P. M. Murray took charge of
the N.M.P. Commonly called
“Black” Murray, from his
swarthy complexion and huge
dark beard, he had taken up
Planet Downs in the Springsure
district. He was in charge at
Fort Raanworth, later called
“Old Rainworth,” at the time bf
the Cullin-la-Ringo massacre
about 1861.
That was the time the whole
of the Wills family, their re-
tainers and servants, were wiped
out at what is now called Mur-
dering Gap, overlooking the
property called Birtley. One
teamster and (some records say)
a hidden baby were all the
whites who survived Wills’s mis-
taken idea of black-brotherhood
with the whites. Wills fostered
the idea that the blacks were to
be trusted. The massacre killed
that idea. Murray quickly
avenged the treachery.
By now Queensland was be-
coming civilised. There was an
established police force in addi-
tion to the N.M.P. There were
certain distinctions between the
two corps. The police went on
beat in streets, directed traffic,
served summonses, arrested
drunks. The N.M.P. served in
the back areas, hunted mur-
derers, tamed the country,
carried their own lives in their
hands all the time.
The early N.M.P. officers
knew that 25 per cent, of them
were going to die violent deaths
with their boots on. They were
quite aware that most of the rest
of them were to be so racked by
fever that their later lives would
be useless. A big percentage of
them would be practically
crippled by accidents. They also
knew the fine slogan of the corps,
instilled by Filibuster Walker:
“The N.M.P, does its duty.”
The officers of the N.M.P. did
not rise from the ranks. They
were chosen as men possessing
qualities of education, breeding,
knowledge of drill and firearms,
ability to handle natives. Each
appointee served a cadetship in
an N.M.P. camp before receiv-
ing his commission.
D. T. Seymour was appointed
Commissioner of Queensland
Police in 1864. He reigned until
1895 —a record which probably
will never be-equalled. W. E.
Parry-Okeden succeeded Sey-
mour. Parry-Okeden retired in
1905. During his period, and in
spite of his opposition, the
N.M.P. ceased to exist. Those
were the only commanding-
officers of the N.M.P.: Walker,
Murray, Seymour, Parry-Oke-
den.
Of the commissioned officers,
I could name about 30. I do
not name one. I would feel it a
disgrace if I could name 45 and
omit one gallant old boy. I do
not take the risk.
In those years from separa-
tion till the corps was finally
disbanded, the N.M.P. had
spread over the State. Rivers,
capes and inlets are named after
old N.M.P. officers all along the
eastern coastline: they were
there. Stations were established
out on the Cooper, in what is
now known as the Channel
country. There were stations
from Carl Creek, on the Gregory
River, Gulf of Carpentaria, to
Boulia (W.Q.) and beyond. Any-
where there was work to do, lives
to protect, law and order to up-
hold, there would be an N.M.F.
camp, a commissioned officer, a
white camp-sergeant, up to a
dozen troopers in their blue uni-
forms with red facings.
One popular myth about the
N.M.P. was that it was the only
military body in the British Em-
pire in which the officers rode
behind their men. The canard
reason: those natural hunters
and slayers could not be trusted
with an unsuspecting white man
in front of them, his back
turned.
The real reason was that an
officer just could not afford to
lose caste in front of his men.
Each troop patrolled thousands
of square miles of country ; they
went from one point to another,
100 lineal miles apart. No roads ;
no landmarks. The troopers
could do that as naturally, and
as easily, as a flock-pigeon re-
turning to its nest. The white
officer just dared not he at fault.
It was much easier, infinitely
safer, to instruct Corporal Mun-
galo to guide the troop while
the officer rode behind.
It seems rather a shame to
expose a myth. We deal with
truth.
The Palmer rush tested the
N.M.P. Every mile of the track
from the port of Cooktown to
the goldfield was marked by
tragedy —death, murder, lost
prospectors, ambushed Chinese ;
other forms of violence. The
N.M.P. rode day and night,
carried prompt justice where it
was needed, held the blacks in
something like order, restrained
the wilder spirits of low whites.
An estimated 30,000 adven-
turers ; an unknown number of
Chinese; -one of the most
densely-populated native districts
in Queensland. The N.M.P. had
to employ tact as well as keep
their rifles clean.
Another odd highlight—in
1879 a call for help from Vic-
toria ; a request for the aid of
the N.M.P. in running down
Ned Kelly and his gang. A troop
was sent; and though, directly,
the N.M.P. had no hand in the
capture and shooting of the
Kellys at Glenrowan, it has
been recorded that the know-
ledge that those human blood-
hounds were on his track upset
Ned Kelly more than any other
means employed against him.
One slip and he was gone —and
no one knew it better than an
astute bushman such as Ned.
In common with quite a num-
ber of colored races, troopers of
the N.M.P. took a delight in
parade-ground drill. Their gins
would form an appreciative
audience, quick to detect any
defect, sharp to ridicule it. The
men took a pride in their gear
and accoutrements. They seemed
to love the jingle of chains and
the squeak of leather when they
were mounted.
As for their discipline, my
father, noted for his judgment of
black psychology, punished any
misdemeanor with a form of
pack-drill. So many times to
and fro, or for some stated
period, a trooper would carry a
packsaddle on his head, strid-
ing up and down the parade-
ground with jeering gins and pic-
caninnies poking borak from the
sidelines. Offenders rarely
erred twice.
A typical N.M.P. camp might
be: The sub-inspector’s quarters,
perhaps bark walls and an earth
floor; many, like my father,
were married men with a family.
Then there was the camp-
sergeant’s quarters, even less
pretentious than the sub-inspec-
tor’s —in fact, rather crude. The
camp-sergeant might also be
married with a family. Then
came the troopers’ huts,
wurlies, mia-mias, gunyahs,
call them what you will ; they
lined the parade-ground ; prob-
ably all the troopers would be
married, some with families. As
stores had to be kept on hand
for at least six months, perhaps
longer, a store-room was neces-
sary to a camp; also harness-
sheds, rooms for this and that,
and, of course, a horse-yard.
The N.M.P. was absorbed by
the Queensland Police about the
turn of the century ; two, pos-
sibly three, N.M.P. officers rose
to the high rank of chief-inspec-
tor in the latter force: Douglas-
Douglas, Warren White and
possibly Stewart (the last was
chief-inspector; he may have
been an N.M.P. man once).
One N.M.P. officer rose to
command the Queensland Police
as Commissioner. That was F.
C. Urquhart. He joined the
N.M.P. in the early 1880’s,
served as a cadet under Sub-
inspector Lamond at Carl Creek
police - station and left the
N.M.P. late in 1896 or early in
1897 to take charge of the C. 1.8.
in Brisbane.
They all did their duty. Those
who failed died while trying to
do it. The old N.M.P. did not
fail.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WILL U.S. TRADE?
The National Association of
Manufacturers of U.S.A. has
adopted an annual report includ-
ing this possibly significant
statement:
“If we are to achieve the
objective here recommended, that
all economic aid not directly
related to and necessary for our
defence programme be termi-
nated —then the way must be
found to improve the access of
foreign producers to American
markets.”
The point is that the associa-
tion had not hitherto favored
anything of that sort. It has
been in line with the general
American attitude towards
countries which have had
generous U.S. aid, but which
have raised the cry “Trade, not
aid! ”
At first (notes London “Spec-
tator”) large sections of the
American Press adopted that
made-in-Britain slogan as “a
compact exposition of American
policy. ‘lt’s about time,’ was the
attitude, ‘that the European
countries abandoned their
reliance on American generosity
and got busy saving themselves.
They must be brought to realise
that the only cure for their ills
is work and more work, produc-
tion and more production. Look
at us! We attained world pre-
eminence by our own genius and
industry.’
“Then, after this mild orgy of
moral-pointing, came the chilly
realisation that international
trade is a two-way street. Praise-
worthy European efforts to
increase exports became a
nefarious plot to dump the
product of cheap foreign labor
on the American market.
Foreigners, obviously, were not
to be trusted. Look at Holland,
which had the effrontery to
retaliate against the American
quota-limitation on Dutch
cheese ; and Switzerland, which
actually threatened to cease buy-
ing Maryland tobacco unless
America abandoned plans to
levy a prohibitive duty on Swiss
watches. And when Britain,
foiled in its attempts to scale the
American tariff-wall, turns to the
Commonwealth, American
exporters raise outraged cries of
‘lmperialism.’ ”
The U.S. tariff-wall, the “Spec-
tator” adds, is not only far too
high for “trade, not aid” to
operate as a dollar-gap remedy,
but is topped by antiquated and
purposely cumbersome Customs-
regulations directed at the
exclusion of the foreign product
rather than the collection of
revenue.
“Attempts to overhaul the
creaking wooden machinery of
the Customs service are gather-
ing dust today in the pigeonholes
of Capitol Hill. American busi-
nessmen, who today loudly
proclaim their faith in the dogma
of ‘trade —not aid” are always
resentful of accusations of
economic isolationism. Yet
efforts to increase trade by reduc-
ing Customs-duties invariably
start a chorus of agonised wails
from the affected producers,
backed by strenuous (and usually
effective) wire-pulling by their
Washington lobbyists.
“General Eisenhower, more so
perhaps than any other
American, knows the vital
importance to his country of
economically strong friends. He
is pretty well committed to the
doctrine of ‘trade —not aid,’ and
can be expected to strive for the
liberalisation of America’s trade-
policies. His instrument is ready
to hand —the Reciprocal Trade
Agreements Act, which comes up
for renewal and possible expan-
sion next June.”
However, the “Spectator”
reports, there are indications that
opposition to any Eisenhower
move on such lines will be loud
and strong from both inside and
outside Congress:
“The Republicans are tradi-
tionally the Protectionist party,
and the Presidential election gave
no reason to believe that the
tradition has been jettisoned.
Indeed, the economic isolationists
have acquired a new ally—the
nominally Democratic and
hitherto Free-trade South. A
substantial number of southern
Congressmen no longer represent
an agrarian community looking
elsewhere for its consumer goods.
Because of the recent and con-
tinuing migration of industry
from the North-east, they now
legislate for a young and
vigorous industrialisation de-
manding protection against
foreign competition.
“This new coalition of
Republican and Democratic Pro-
tectionists may not be powerful
enough to kill the basic
Reciprocal Trade Agreements
Act, but it probably will be quite
powerful enough to prevent its
expansion and liberalisation.
And, the American system of
government being what it is,
there can be no assurance for
foreign exporters that, even if
they capture a beachhead on
the American market, they will
not later be driven off by sub-
sequent prohibitive duties, sub-
sidies or import-quotas.
“It is by no means certain,
therefore, that the new Adminis-
tration will get from Congress
the power it will need and must
have if America’s allies are to be
permitted to attain self-
sufficiency through ‘trade —not
aid.’ ”
Nationalist Revolt
Reviewing the late U.N.O.
session, a “New York Times”
correspondent noted the expres-
sions of nationalist revolt in
various parts of the world that
received a widely sympathetic
hearing, and commented:
“The anti-colonial movement
is clearly spreading in both the
Near East and in the vast con-
tinent of Africa. What with the
difficulties created in Asia by the
Communist conquest of China,
the wars in Korea and Indo-
China and the serious guerrilla
movement in Malaya, the out-
look for the colonial Powers,
and for the United States, which
has now reluctantly moved
nearer to their side, is most dis-
turbing.”
Colonial Powers referred to
are, of course, chiefly Britain and
France; and, as part of the
“nationalist” revolt, Persia
would have to be included.
British comment has maintained
all through that Moussadek’s
nationalism was not made in
Moscow, and the “New York
Times’s” chief foreign-affairs
correspondent, C. L. Sulzberger,
holds that the same applies to
Africa:
“Such disputes as the Mau
Mau fracas in Kenya or the
tragic apartheid (segregation-of-
races) troubles of the South
African Union cannot conveni-
ently be labelled ‘made in Mos-
cow’. ... .These spring from deep
indigenous problems. Premier
Stalin cannot be blamed for
them. Devious and powerful as
the Kremlin is, its capacities
should not be overestimated.”
But, adds Sulzberger, though
Moscow may not be responsible
for the difficulties spreading
across the great and restless
African body, it surely benefits,
and may be counted upon to stir
the pot as best it can:
“The situation so tragically
shaping up is bound eventually
to become a salient feature of
the whole political and propa-
ganda contest between West and
East, Its first ugly battles have
commenced in colonial Kenya
and the Union of South Africa.
“Such bitter occurrences were
not concocted in any Kremlin
meetings. But nothing could be
more convenient from the Soviet
point of view. On matters of
race, men argue with their blood
and not their brains.”
Also looking at the widespread
nationalist heavings, Edinburgh
“Scotsman” touches on an issue
that might worry some of the
revolters later on —the reluctance
there will be to risk capital in
their countries on any develop-
mental undertakings or on such
vast, nationally valuable enter-
prises as Abadan represented.
There always were heavy risks
in this, but, comments the
“Scotsman,” though these
hazards were faced readily in the
past, they have now been in-
creased almost out of recogni-
tion by the ever-increasing risk
of expropriation:
“Persia’s nationalisation of
her oil industry is not the only
instance of action on these lines.
Bolivia has nationalised tin-pro-
duction, largely in foreign hands,
and, on a smaller scale, the
Greek Government has recently
expropriated a large foreign-
owned agricultural undertaking
(the Lake Copais Company).
“Experience in these arid simi-
lar cases has already shown that
compensation to foreign inves-
tors, where it can be obtained at
all, generally involves long nego-
Bail
POdJ
frftvs E
t***
fs
Jm
x&
V-prYi
.p c$
Pf a h ,-^
New York “Herald Tribune”
THERE MUST BE A BETTER WAY!
tiation and is frequently a good
deal less than the former owners
consider adequate. Nationalisa-
tion of foreign-held properties is,
indeed, apparently becoming
recognised as an almost normal
procedure. The Economic Com-
mittee of the United Nations
passed a resolution —from a
Latin-American quarter —affirm-
ing the right of any country to
nationalise foreign-owned under-
takings, but making no mention
of an obligation to provide ade-
quate compensation.... indicat-
ing a trend of thought which is
ominous in view of the world’s
financial needs on the one hand-
and on the other the existence
of extremist minorities in coun-
tries of the Near East, Latin
America, Indonesia and else-
where, intent on the taking-over
of developed foreign-owned
enterprises with the least pos-
sible delay.
“No investor need fear that
a new venture in the less-
advanced quarters of the world
will be nationalised in its early
stages. The technique, as so far
practised in Persia and other
countries, is rather to nationalise
only after a large amount of
new overseas funds has been
attracted and a prosperous busi-
ness created. But the prospect
that capital now put into specu-
lative enterprises in under-
developed countries will ulti-
mately become a mere compen-
sation claim can hardly be to
the liking of private investors or
companies contemplating foreign
investment.
“It is already questionable
whether current accusations of
‘colonialism,’ ‘imperialist capi-
talism’ and the like have not
already combined with actual
examples of nationalisation to
kill private foreign investment,
except in such areas as the
British Commonwealth, where
capital from outside quarters has
a reasonable assurance of fair
treatment.”
Meeting Stalin
Recent feelers for an
Eisenhower-Stalin meeting (per-
haps with Churchill, too) in the
belief that Stalin would be found
co-operative on Korea and peace
generally were naturally viewed
sceptically in the U.S. They’ve
had Joe.
The official U.S. statement that
any move to such an end by
Moscow through ordinary
diplomatic channels or U.N.O.
would be favorably considered
was unanimously accepted as the
exactly right answer. Deeds not
words were now required.
Some British reactions were in
the nature of hoping against
hope (and experience), but
generally in Britain, too, the
feelers have been rejected on
grounds summarised by London
“Economist”:
“It is far from certain that
anything would be gained by
personal meetings with Stalin. If
they failed to reduce tension,
the situation would be worse, not
better, and it is not easy to see
why they should succeed.
“On all the subjects that
matter there has been elaborate
and fruitless negotiation already.
The truth probably is—but it is
impossible to be certain —that
the present situation and its
trends suit Soviet policy well. It
is much easier to see Stalin’s
interest in encouraging the
various oppositions in the West
to believe that he is prepared to
be reasonable than to see why
he should choose this moment
actually to start being so.
“He might be interested in a
hard bargain But what has the
West to offer? It is too weak
to make demands thdt could be
pealed down in negotiation, but
too strong to be forced into a
series of concessions at the
expense of Germans, Austrians,
Koreans and Japanese.
“In such a diplomatic situa-
tion, which is strikingly like the
state of affairs on the Korean
front, the best tactics are patience
and regular—above all skilful —
reconnaissance.”
Aims in Germany
As viewed by London
“Times,” Western aims in
Germany are based upon the
old abiding interest of ensuring
that no Power becomes pre-
dominant in Europe:
“Today this means that in no
circumstances can either Russian
. arms or the Communist party be
allowed to prevail in Western
Germany, for the transfer of
West German strength to the
Russian Communist camp would
be a wellnigh mortal loss to the
West.
“It is common ground that
neither Western Germany nor
Western Europe as a whole can
be. adequately defended in the
military field without West
German contingents ; yet, as the
months pass, it is East Germany
that is being rearmed while time
is lost in Western Germany.
“The North Atlantic forces
stand as a warning screen both
in Berlin and in Western
Germany in deterrence against a
frontal attack, but the most
immediate danger does not lie so
much in such an attack as in
j inner weakness and confusion.
“The delays in ratifying the
European defence treaties do not
arise from direct Russian or
1 Communist inspiration, but
; nothing aids their plans more. In
; the uncertainty that would follow
a failure to bring a democratic
Western Germany into the
Western defence partnership
much more would be heard both
from the West German Com-
munists and from the extreme
German nationalists,”
Without Abadan
Though the loss of Persian oil
meant the removal of more than
30,000,000 metric tons of crude
oil a year, world crude-oil output
showed an increase last year, as
in 1951.
“On the Iranian side,” com-
ments “New York Times,” “there
was the colossal error of believ-
ing that Britain and the West
had to have Iranian crude oil
and the use of the Abadap
refinery. In fact, the loss of
production was quickly made up
from other sources and new
refineries are taking the place of
Abadan. Hence Iranian oil is
not needed and to take it now
would mean a cut-back in other
production fields and a costly
and elaborate shifting of tankers
from their present routes.”
The one snag has been in
rpgard to aviation spirit, where
the loss of Abadan —which pre-
viously supplied nearly half the
world’s requirements outside the
United States and Russia —is still
severely felt.
“The plain fact,” comments
London “Financial Times,” “is
that the situation which Dr.
Moussadek was warned against
has either actually come into
being or is on the point of com-
ing into being. The shock of
the loss of Abadan has left its
bitter political memory; but its
economic effects on the oil in-
dustry have been almost washed
away.
“Not only is there now
scarcely a sign of them ; but it
would be a positive embarrass-
ment to the World oil markets
to be asked to dispose suddenly
of an extra 30 million tons of
crude oil a year or an extra 25
million tons of refined products.
It could only be done at the ex-
pense of some other source of
production and by closing down
some other refinery capacity.
“It is a practical certainty that
if any of the big U.S. oil com-
panies—or all of them together
—have been approached by any
of the politicians for a solution
to the political problem, their
answer must have run along
these lines. Any other reply
would not make sense in the
light of the figures for U.S. out-
put and stocks today.
“Moreover —and the Persians
have themselves to thank for


this—a reduction of output in
any other of the Middle East
oilfields could help to provoke
precisely the same explosion
there as has already taken place
in Persia. It is hardly worth
trying to mend the damage in
Persia if it means disrupting the
rest of the Middle East. What-
ever political reasons there may
be for wishing for a settlement,
economic changes cannot be
ignored.”
Furthermore (the “Financial
Times” also reports) the increas-
ing and expanding of Middle
East production is still going
ahead:
“Anglo - Iranian’s forecast of
the increase it expects this year
is a reminder that the develop-
ment of the Middle East is by no
means over. It has been
announced that a new concession
has been negotiated for pros-
pecting under the sea off Qatar.
Other prospecting is going on
both in the immediate area of
Qatar and in Saudi Arabia. Pro-
duction from Kuwait could
undoubtedly be stepped up
again: it is estimated that known
reserves would allow production
to run at 50 million tons a year
for at least 30 years.
“In Irak an agreement has
been signed under which the
companies concerned have
undertaken to increase produc
tion from the present 19 million
tons to 30 million tons by 1955.
Of this, 22 million tons is to
come from Kirkuk and 8 million
tons from the new Zubair field
near the Persian Gulf.
“More exciting, though at the
moment more speculative, there
is a scheme afoot for building a
pipeline all the way from the
Middle East to Europe—Paris
has been mentioned —to carry the
natural gas which is now being
mostly wasted.
‘‘Yet there are still problems
ahead. Wealth is flowing into
unaccustomed hands. New
centres of power and importance
are being created. New markets
are being created with new
wants. These things are an
opportunity for the Western
world, but also a challenge to its
sense of responsibility.”
That “challenge,” it is now
generally agreed, has been poorly
met hitherto ; chiefly a failure of
Britain and America to agree:
“The history of the Persian
debacle,” comments London
“Daily Telegraph’s” diplomatic
correspondent, “is a monument
to the weakness of Anglo-
American diplomatic co-opera-
tion throughout the rapidly-
changing Middle East scene.
“By the time Anglo-American
co-operation on Persia was
improved sufficiently for the two
countries to present a united
front to Dr. Moussadek on the
oil issue, as has been done in
recent months, the harm had
already been done.
“Persia is still probably the
most urgent single problem con-
fronting Western diplomacy
after the war in Korea. Together
with Germany, Persia is, in fact,
a place where another ‘Korea’
situation might develop.”
And if, therefore, the Ameri-
cans now wish to press London
to make one last approach to
Tehran, they ought to be willing
(in London “Economist’s” view)
to pay a price for British
capitulation; “The price is
agreement on what joint action
is to be taken if the policy is
fruitless, and if Tudeh [the Com-
munist party] comes to power in
Tehran.”
Japan's Coms
At the last Jap elections the
Corns apparently suffered a
severe knockback. In the view
of a London “Observer” writer
it would be an error to take that
very seriously.
The Corns, he reports, are still
the best-organised and perhaps
the only really coherent political
group in Japan.
Any economic reverse re-
flected in the common living
standard, any too obvious
involvement of Japan in
American military dangers.
could once again restore their
strength;
“And Communism has a good
deal more in common with the
Japanese character and system
than it ever had with the
Chinese. Before the war, the
Emperor-centred junior officers,
poor and ferocious, always
thought of it as a practical
alternative that was quite con-
sonant with their national
mystique.
“The old nationalists, who
made the Parliamentary system
ridiculous and dragged Japan
into war, still obtain wide and
uncritical support. They live in
a world of frightening and
ignorant unreality, care for
nothing except the greatness of
Japan, and are apparently indif-
ferent to her prosperity. Today,
in their efforts to avoid any
alliance in which Japan is not the
dominator, their statements are
virtually identical with the Com-
munists’. It is true that they
are not organised, but they exist
as a latent force, ready to act —
as automatically as a hungry dog
responding to a bone —in support
of any group that serves their
narrow view of Japan’s
interests.”
The writer supports the now-
general view that democracy in
Japan is not a sturdy growth:
“The majority would accept its
disappearance as politely as they
accepted its arrival in the train
of the American armies.”
Soviet Purges
“We are not allowed to know
much of what goes on in Russia,
China and the satellite Com-
munist countries. We know
enough to be sure that all is not
well. The Marxian faith that was
to have freed and enriched the
common man still has to be
imposed upon him after thirty-
five years by scaffolds and
bayonets.”
Supporting that “New York
Times” view of what the recent
wholesale arrests, fatal “con-
fessions” and purges tell of
Soviet and satellite troubles,
London “Time and Tide” sees
the current upheaval disturbing
dupes and even Communists
themselves outside the Iron
Curtain:
“Communism has not meant
an end of imperialism and the
giving of freedom to subject
races. It has meant a new,
bigger, more ambitious and
bloody imperialism than any-
thing the worst of the Tsars ever
contemplated.” The current
“purging” is “something which
even the Communist mentality
within the democracies finds too
much.
“There is a deep ferment going
on among the Communists of
Western Europe and the United
States. The last rags have been
stripped from Communism and
its pretences. It emerges now in
full view of the whole world as
a murderous, utterly un-
scrupulous tyranny.”
A London “Economist” cor-
respondent notes that Soviet
Russia maintains “the world’s
most elaborate internal spy
system,” which rounds up the
victims: “No State in the world
spends so much time, money and
energy on spying upon, suspect-
ing and mistrusting its citizens as
does the Soviet Union. It is no
exaggeration to say that its Gov-
ernment works on the principle
that every citizen is a potential
enemy.”
Indo-China Headache
“If Indo-China yields, the
Far East falls. Though the
battles may be bloodier in
Korea, the strategic importance
of that peninsula is small com-
pared to that of this encircling
mass of land from which Japan
in 1941-42 advanced almost
painlessly up to the Indian
frontier.”
In a London “Observer”
article Rawle Knox, just re-
turned from Indo-China, adds
that many Frenchmen there,
especially in the Army, insist
that U.N.O. troops should join
them, but “There is small chance
of such aid arriving”:
“For this the least important
reason is Peking’s warning to
Delhi that an extension of
United Nations action in Indo-
China would definitely bring in
active Chinese intervention.
“There are two far more solid
obstacles. The first is the de-
sire of French high policy-
making officials to keep Indo-
China as a restrictedly French
preserve—not, perhaps, as a
colony, but as an export market
for French ideas and products.
The second is the awareness of
the United States Administration
that Congress would not permit
the use of American troops on
another Asian front at this
time.”
Not really denying that,
Washington correspondents of
London “News Chronicle”
“HOW ABOUT A GOVERNMENT OF ALL EX-PREMIERS?”
New York “Herald Tribune”
nevertheless state that a new
plan for winning the war in
Indo-China within two years
will almost certainly be adopted
by Eisenhower, for:
“While the drain in Indo-
China continues France will re-
main weak and will find ways to
prevent Germany from becom-
ing stronger than France. Thus
Western strategy, which is
squarely based on a solid defence
of Western Europe, will remain
essentially a sham as long as the
fighting in Indo-China con-
tinues. The only way out of
this dilemma is to make a virtual
necessity to give a quick military
decision in Indo-China priority
over the defence of Western
Europe itself.”
Swiss Neutrality
In the course of a “Man-
chester Guardian” interview Pro-
fessor William Rappard, who
has represented Switzerland at
international conferences, gives
his views on Swiss neutrality in
present world conditions:
“I fully realise the unpopu-
larity of the idea of Swiss
neutrality at a time when every-
body is equally threatened by the
Moloch of the East and when,
under American guidance, pro-
tection is sought by instruments
of collective security. However,
I believe not only that the main-
tenance of Swiss neutrality is a
boon or even a necessity for
Switzerland itself, but that,
rightly considered, it is in the
general interest of Europe.
“To take the latter first, I
believe that all military
authorities agree that if the
whole of Western Europe were
so well protected by its natural
and military forces as is the
Swiss frontier from Italy to
France Western Europe would
feel appreciably safer than it
does today. No one doubts that
Switzerland would risk all if
attacked from the East or from
the West, and nobody believes
seriously that it will be attacked
from the West. Therefore, from
the military point of view, it is
as fully pulling its weight as it
would be if it became a member
of N.A.T.O.
“I may add that its contribu-
tion is probably more effective
as it is, inasmuch as one of the
reasons why the Swiss Army is
so popular in Switzerland is that
everyone knows that it will never
serve any purpose but that of
defence of its own country. I
doubjt very much whether it
would be found possible to
maintain the idea and the nature
of Swiss military service, the
tradition of which has come
down to us through the centuries,
if there was any chance of Swiss
divisions being employed on any
other sector of the European
front than that defined by Swiss
frontiers.
“As for Swiss reasons for
maintaining Swiss neutrality,
they are, in my opinion, so
decisive and they have been so
often justified in history and
explained by historians that I
find it impossible to sum them
up in a few lines. May I say
only that, constituted as Switzer-
land is of Germanic-, French- and
Italian-speaking populations, its
internal unity is dependent upon
its neutrality at least as much as
its external security.
“How would Switzerland have
survived the Thirty Years War,
which was waged between the
Protestants and the Catholics of
neighboring Europe, if its own
Protestant and Catholic popula-
tion had not agreed to hold
aloof? What would have be-
come of Switzerland in 1914,
when sympathies of the elements
of German Switzerland were
with the Reich, whereas its Latin
elements were enthusiastically
on the side of the Allies, if it had
not been true to this tradition of
neutrality?
“Doubtless the world of today
is not that of 1914 nor that of
1618. However, my historical
studies have taught me that every
time there was a European crisis
some voices arose in support of
the abandonment of neutrality
on the ground that the situation
was no longer what it had been.
As a matter of fact, the funda-
mental internal and external
reasons have not varied.
“It is not for the Swiss to
recall what should not be for-
gotten, that if millions of Allied
soldiers in the last two wars
received the aid and the protec-
tion of the Red Cross, that was
due solely to the maintenance of
Swiss neutrality.”
Dragnet Digest
Wishful. —Vernon Bartlett, in
London “News Chronicle”:
“Hitler’s 1000-year dictatorship
collapsed after 12 years. Mus-
solini’s lasted for little more than
20, And Stalin’s? I am no
prophet, but also I am no
pessimist.”
Close to the Bone!—“Man-
chester Guardian”: “The differ-
ence between the average price of
£l6O per ton we must pay for
Argentine beef and the £122 we
pay for Australian beef is not so
unreasonable when quality is
taken into account.”
Population Pays. Toronto
“Globe and Mail,” explaining
why Canada (population,
14,000,000) must have a lower
living-standard than America
(population, 155,000,000): “Does
anybody suppose that if there
were only 14 million Americans,
their standard of living would
be what it is today? Of course
not. It takes an abundance of
human, as well as natural,
resources to sustain the American
way of life.”
John Sam. “New York
Times” finding: “There was
never an Englishman more
English than Churchill, but if
anyone ever could claim a dual
English-American nationality, it
is he.”
Britain Leads. London
“Daily Mail” suggests one
reason why last year saw
“astonishing British progress in
the design of jet planes, civil and
military, and in atomic develop-
ments” : “It may be that it is
because the British do not waste
time fighting one another or
harping on national grievances
that they have energy enough to
keep one jump ahead in the race
for technical supremacy.”
Ananias Was a Novice. —A
“New York Times” writer sign-
posts a “grim fact” in interna-
tional politics “that must be dis-
turbing to the Soviet leader him-
self” : “This fact is that Moscow
has created a climate of distrust
in which no government that
has dealt with Russia believes a
word that comes out of the
Kremlin.”
Kremlin Hope. London
“Spectator” comment: “If it is
not necessarily true that Britain
and America alone can make
peace secure, it is true beyond
all question that the opening of
any rift between the two
countries would plunge the world
into the gravest peril. It is that
development which Russia is
hoping for, and to the extent
of her ability working for,
beyond all else. That is almost
the best of many good reasons
for resolving that it shall never
happen.”
Tough for J. Bull. —London
“Sunday Times” thinks this is
going to be, for various reasons,
anything but an easy year. One
reason; “Twelve months ago
reserves of gold and credit were
running down catastrophically.
The Government stopped the rot
for the time being by drastically
curtailing imports. But that can
be only a stopgap measure. No
remedy short of increasing
exports will avail in the long run.
Nor will that be easy, now that
the sellers’ market turns to a
buyers’ * market, and Germany
and Japan are both resuming
competition for the export
trade.”
Too Secret. —Detroit (U.S.A.)
“News,” on the American law
which forbids any sharing of
U.S. atomic secrets: “Under the
law we are not permitted to dis-
cuss even with the Allied com-
mander, General Juin, or with
the British staff such simple mat-
ters as the effective radius of
the atom-bomb, what it can be
expected to do against infantry,
or what we think about how it
should be used for maximum
impact on the general situation.
It is an absurdity which soldiers
protest against in vain, so long
as civilian control remains un-
sympathetic to the problem. But
it could well promote disaster.
When secrecy becomes as secret
as this it defeats its own object.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Government Works
It is high time our Governments
learned that they cannot carry out
constructional work quickly or economi-
cally. Let them have their skilled
engineers, draftsmen, architects and
surveyors to plan and supervise, but they
should get the actual constructional work
done by contract.
The bad old days when Government
contractors made fortunes out of sweated
labor have gone for ever. Men must be
paid a fair wage today, and can only be
worked a set number of hours. For
private contractors they will give a fair
return ; for Governments they won’t. v
The temptation of having a large
number of “workers” on the payroll is
irresistible to Governments, particularly
the “Labor” variety.
If the contract system were followed
wherever possible, the country would gain
by enormous savings in time and
money in the construction of public and
semi-public works. Or the same amount
•f money would provide far more neces-
sities of this kind far quicker than under
the present wasteful and inefficient system.
—E. R. (W.A.).
The White-collar Vote
We white-collar workers (B. 31 /12/’52)
aren’t a bad crowd really. We work
plenty of overtime but aren’t paid for it
-—we get no lead-bonus, no dirt-money,
no apperance-money.
We are expected to keep our collective
head above water; to mix with the
middle-class or better, and any other
class calculated to attract business to
our employers; to populate or perish ;
to be pillars of family life by staking
a home in suburbia, and there being
soaked by skyrocketing land-taxes and
municipal rates; and to wear a present-
able suit of clothes and a smile.
Less than half of us have retained
salary margins in terms of £A. Only
those of us who get increases propor-
tional to basic-wage rises have held
margins related to purchasing-power.
We do not vote for the party unlikely
to make a football of us, but the one
we reckon will kick us the least. Our
choice is the lesser of two evils.
We are those who authorise employers’
accountants to deduct a few bob weekly
from salary cheques to invest in war,
victory and security loans, only to find
the mite saved shrinks from £lOO to
£B7 10s.
The employer who looks for profit from
the economic stabilising policy of Mr.
Menzies is souring our mob —whose vote
alone may keep the Liberals on the
“They love afternoon-teatime."
Treasury benches. Yet there is a solu-
don.
Send Liberal-Country members back
to their electorates to seat-warm.
Start a vigorous public-relations set-up
alerted to the existence of our mob,
sensitive to our grouches and hopes and
qualified to think inside the framework
of our lives and living. .
Tell employers that they must sweeten-
up the white-collar workers. We aren’t
amused when incentives spell bigger divi-
dends' for shareholders, higher fees for
directors and shorter hours, double-time,
lead-bonuses, appearance-money and dirt-
money for collarless workers, but nowt
for us.
Slash personal income tax, particularly
in the MOOO-tOr£2soo-a-year group, rather
than company and sales tax. Capital
can’t vote for anybody else but Menzies,
and we are not bashed so joltingly by
indirect as by direct taxation.
The Prime Minister had two valuable
helpers in 1949 —the irritation of
motorists with petrol-rationing and bank-
officers’ apprehension of nationalisation.
Wouldn’t there be profit in keeping those
attitudes alive? Employers, however,
would have to do a devil of a lot of
sweetening-up to inspire us to action in
any way comparable with that of the
bank-officers in ’49. But our mob, some-
times vulgarly referred to as swingers,
puts a Government into power or kicks
it out. — Chas. E. Rattle (Q.).
Television
Television won’t affect amusement-
houses much in Australia, if we have
only one programme—an A.8.C.; like
the 8.8. C. in Britain. But if commercial
stations enter the TV field, amusement-
houses are in for a hiding.
In Britain I found the people blase
about their solitary TV programme, but
in the U.S.A. Americans had taken to
video like ducks to water, and for three
good reasons.
TV gives cheap entertainment —you
may be at ease in your own home and
enjoy selectivity of programme simply
by dialling a knob.
On a London afternoon I could watch
a village cricket match, or else. In New
York I switched from a Broadway
matinee to women’s “catch-as-catch-can”
roller-skating in Toledo (a rage in parts
of U.S.A.), to boxing at Madison Square
Garden, to a station programme of jazz,
jive and bebop, to a university grid foot-
ball match and to the World Series base-
ball. I was kept very much awake.
Not all TV “artists” are featured on
ability to act, play or sing ; curves, plung-
ing necklines, bare backs and a facility
to sway from the hips are money-spinners,
too.—C.P.C. (Q.).
Commission Houses
When the Victorian Housing Com-
mission started it announced that it was
not going to repeat the mistakes of former
years and there would be no maddening
uniformity of standardised houses.
Home-buyers would be given up to 15
styles to choose from —they always had
that, even when private enterprise did
the building and people still complained
of the monotony of suburban architec-
ture.
The reason is that variety doesn’t
come about by juggling features. Look
at a row of houses of a previous era,
one with corkscrew columns, another
with fat ones, another with thin, round,
triangular or square ones. There is more
real variety in an old English village
where people have followed a tradition
for centuries and have only varied the
design by slightly altering the proportions.
If anybody wants to see how much variety
the commission has achieved he should
look at’ the vast, frozen sea of roofs
between the Heidelberg Repat. Hospital
and Preston.
The only thing that will give variety
now to that model suburb is Lombardy
poplars, and people won’t plant Lom-
hardy poplars because the roots get into
the sewerage-system,
Anyway, there was no guarantee in
the commission’s scheme that Tones
wouldn’t order the same design as
Brown’s next door. Could Brown take
out an injunction as one fashionable
woman did when an individual gown was
sold to another woman?
So, toi the next 100 years, unless the
houses fall to pieces sooner, Melbourne
is doomed to have the maddening mono-
tony the commission thought it was
avoiding. Bumpkin (Vic.).
_ ,
1 eachers and Teaching
Most theories about the shortage of
teachers overlook the main factor —
present economic and labor conditions,
The number of teachers employed in
N. S. Wales has risen from 11,000 to
15,000 during the last 10 years, but the
school population has increased at a far
greater rate. Consequently the shortage
remains and is likely to remain until
there is a surplus of skilled applicants.
It is only during the last 15 years that
all applicants for Teachers’ College
scholarships who were medically and
academically suitable have been accepted
by the Education Department. Before
then scholarships were highly competitive
and for a long period very few found
their way into the colleges. Large classes
and the shortage of teachers is a legacy
of depression days.
There is a lot in teaching to attract
teachers. Anyone who has enjoyed the
nine-weeks holidays each year shudders
at the thought of a job with its annual
leave of three weeks. The uses that can
be, and have been, made of the long
Christmas vacation are so many that only
teachers can tell of them. By the end
of the term a teacher has generally had
all he can take of children, but, luckier
than any other worker, he has his break
and can start all over again for another
14 or 15 weeks.
The short hours are something that he
would not get in another job. Most
teachers can arrive home well before dark,
even in the middle of winter. They have
the time to make appointments and do
shopping after work that is denied to
other workers.
Then there is the security of a public-
service job. A teaeher has almost to
become a convicted criminal before he
can get the sack. He can loaf consistently
if he is content to put up with frequent
and unfavorable moves. If he doesn’t
get on with his headmaster he hasn’t to
leave the job as he would in any other
occupation, but can ask for a transfer,
a move that would probably be enthusi-
astically endorsed by his headmaster. To
anyone who experienced unemployment
in the depression, the security of a teach-
ing job is something worth having.
The pay is good without being lavish.
On a basic wage of £lO 16s. a two-year
trained teacher starts on £722 a year and
reaches £1032 in his 12th year ; a four-
year trained teacher (a graduate) starts
on £787 and reaches £1159 in his 14th
year. Above these rates, of course, come
the promotion positions, from £lOB4 for
a deputy-headmaster in a smaller primary
school to £1353 for the headmaster of
a high school. Not lavish, but obtainable
without much risk or much investment of
capital.
The main disadvantages of teaching are
generally not realised until one starts in
the job. The work can be hard, heart-
breaking and nerve-wracking. At the
end of 12 months’ grind there is often
little to see except a set of unsatisfactory
examination figures. The kids seem just
as dumb and unappreciative as at the
beginning of the year. It is no job for
anyone given to worrying. The con-
scientious teacher will always set the
highest of standards for his class. When
the class doesn’t reach that standard, and
it seldom does, he is dispirited and over-
ioobs the progress the class has made,
The sa| does not aU (h t h
t 0 take his i ace jn the professional ro
t 0 which h £ belongs . No r does it allow
laim to subscribe to periodicals or buy
books to keep him up-to-date in his work.
He has to put up with antiquated build-
ings and toilet facilities which the Depart-
ment of Labor and Industry would not
tolerate for 10 minutes in a private con-
cem. Usually there are not adequate
staff-room facilities and certainly none
of the amenities we associate with indus-
try today.
While the job itself is secure, there is
no guarantee that a teacher will stay for
long in any particular school or town.
He may spend five years in a place he
detests and then move to half a dozen
schools in two years. He can get a
telegram on any one of the 260 week-
days in the year telling him to pack his
bags and move to the other end of the
State. There is no set time for moves.
Nor can the department help him much
by putting him where he wants to be. If
15,000 teachers could be allowed to pick
their schools there would be 14,000
teachers along the coast from Newcastle
to Wollongong and none the other side
of the mountains.
A teacher has to put up with 100 other
pinpricks, the attitude of the public, the
inspectorial system, the idiosyncrasies of
headmasters, the overload of clerical work,
and so on.
The only way to increase the supply
of teachers is to do what industry did so
disastrously a couple of years ago—out-
bid everyone else in the search for
recruits. The teaching service is getting
its normal share of recruits each year.
Unfortunately it needs many more than
its share. To get that extra it will have
to wait till jobs are scarcer still and more
turn to teaching because of its security.
—Wackford (N.S.W.),
Bureaucratic Control
There is a lesson in the experience of
the Trangie School of Arts. Some 25
years ago the committee borrowed £2OOO
and built an institute which, with shops,
offices and social-room, brought in
revenue of £4 a week, excluding
members’ subscriptions. The whole work
was done without any Government help
or finance.
Since then the habits of the people, par-
ticularly in a small township, have so
changed that a School of Arts is an
anachronism—unwanted, unused and un-
sung.
The bright idea of handing it over to
the Trangie branch of the Country
Women’s Association, for use as a baby-
health-centre and rest-room, was put to
the women and accepted. They were
willing to take over the remaining debt,
about £650, and keep the library going.
The building would thus still be owned
and run by district residents.
Permission for the transfer was sought
from the Minister for Education, and
refused, the department taking refuge in
an Act over 50 years old and inapplicable
to present conditions. A seven years
lease with the option of renewal was as
far as the department was prepared to
go, and that was no good to the C.W.A.
—Mac (N.S.W.).


“Mariners* Meals”
Present wages, messing and general
conditions for seamen (B. 14/l/’53) make
old sailormen gasp, yet men still find
excuse for growling.
Few seamen today realise what the con-
ditions were less than 50 years ago. On
a voyage in ballast from Mauritius in
1896, in sail, I lived upon Liverpool
pantiles mixed with raw sugar. The sugar
was lifted from one of the small wooden
barques which in those days carried sugar
to Australian ports, and filthy-looking stuff
it was, though more palatable than the
food supplied to the crew by the ship.
Men were far easier to please in those
hard days. On the whitewashed wall of
a cell in Maitland (N.S.W.) jail in which
i suffered solitary confinement for desert-
ing my ship these words were scratched:
“Sail in the Inver line, soft tack twice a
week, and condensed-milk on Sundays.”
Indeed a cry from the heart.
About the turn of the century I saw
the beginning—and end for many years—
of the first real attempt to improve con-
ditions for the seaman. A shipowning
M.P. named Gibson-Bowles, a friend of
the seaman, built a 6000-ton tramp —-a
turret she was—and called her the
Nonesuch. Fitted with cabins, a proper
messroom and bathrooms for the crew,
she was quite unusual until the day she
berthed in Kidderpore Dock in Calcutta.
At that time, with the Hooghly in flood,
the water in the dock was like pea-soup,
and bath-water had to be turned off.
Angry crew-members then smashed the
shower-roses and drove spikes through
the porcelain baths in protest. After
that orders came to pay off the crew and
ship them home. Nonesuch always sailed
with a Lascar crew after that.— Shellback
(N.S.W.).
Australian Discovery
On known records, the Dutch claim to
have been the first to put most of Aus-
tralia on the map is indisputable (B.
76/11/ ’52). After Tasman’s second
voyage in 1644 they were able to put out
a chart of the Australian coastline from
Cape York anticlockwise to the head of
the Bight which is not merely instantly
recognisable but, considering they had
neither chronometer nor anything
approaching a good sextant, reasonably
accurate.
There is evidence, however, that other
Europeans had visited and sighted the
northern and western shores long before
them, and it would be surprising if that
were not so. The centuries-old insistence
of medieval geographers and their
successors on the existence of a vast
southern continent is easily explained. In
the light of their knowledge of the
physical world, and believing the earth to
be a ball floating motionless in space,
they were forced to postulate a great land-
mass south of the equator in order that
it might preserve a static balance with the
known land-masses of the Northern
Hemisphere.
But it is not so easy to explain the
insistence with which the great 16th-
century cartographers, Mercator, Oertel
and their contemporaries, all show this
continent to have a n.-s. coastline roughly
in the longitudes of the Westralian coast.
If the first recorded visit by a Euro-
pean to the Westralian coast were made
by the Dutchman Dirck Hartog in 1616,
it was made 118 years after the Portuguese
had reached India around the Cape of
Good Hope. In 1602, six years after the
first Dutch ship had reached the Eastern
Archipelago, the Dutch East India Com-
pany was founded and firmly rooted in
lava. By 1606 they had discovered the
west side of Cape York peninsula. By
1611 they had discovered an indirect but
much better way of getting from the Cape
to Java than via Madagascar, namely, by
sailing due east in the latitude of the Cape
for 4000 miles, or until they sighted land,
before turning north to the islands. In
1620 they adopted this route officially,
and thereafter the history of the company
contains a long record of Dutch visits
and wrecks on the Westralian coast.
It is impossible to believe that
navigators and pioneers of the calibre of
the 16th-century Portuguese and Spanish
didn’t make similar voyages, either by
chance or choice, and at the same time
make expeditions southwards from their
bases in the Moluccas, Celebes and Malay
peninsula during the 100 years at their
disposal. For a century they had been
established in the East Indies before they
were thrown out by the Dutch. For a
century they had the Indian Ocean and
the Eastern Archipelago to themselves,
yet on the whole 10,000 miles or more of
Australian coastline known after
Tasman’s voyages, only one Portuguese or
Spanish name has come down to us—the
strange attractive word Abrolhos (from
Portuguese “abri vossos olhos,” meaning
“open your eyes”), a contemporary
m
A
BATT.
“It gels ’em down quicker , sir.”
sailors’ caution for danger ahead-—and
that was bestowed by a Dutchman!
Early in the 16th century rivalry between
Spain and Portugal for possession of the
New World was at its height; neither
side gave anything away, and both sides
probably knew more than was ever pub-
lished. In 1880 an old map was unearthed
proving that the Portuguese were familiar
with the North American coast between
the West Indies and Newfoundland even
as early as 1502 —something not pre-
viously known. Torres’ passage between
New Guinea and Australia in 1606 did
not become general knowledge until the
English took Manila in 1762.
It is possible, that records of earlier
discoveries about Australia than those of
the Dutch still lie buried in the archives
of Spain and Portugal, and will one day
be brought to light, for it seems certain
that those nations must have gained a fail-
knowledge of our west and nor’-west coast
during the 16th century.
Probably, like the Dutch and Dampier
after them, they saw no chance of exploi-
tation. For fear of competition they kept
their charts and findings to themselves
and enjoined their captains to silence, but
it must have been from charts such as
they had, or from verbal descriptions by
sailors who had visited the shores, that the
“Thought so — PAINTED on!”
old Flemish cartographers were able to
delineate some sort of coastline in those
longitudes 80 years before Hartog got
there,— Mark O’Polo (Vic.).
Very Second-class
With an annual loss approaching the
six-million-mark, Victoria’s railways are
approaching bankruptcy. Is there, any-
where in the world, a board of directors
of a railway company who would dare
even for one year, let alone year after
year, to present such a balance-sheet to
its shareholders?
When politicians and others with free
gold passes refuse to travel by train, is
it any wonder that the general public
follows suit? Fares axe exorbitant,
service is negligible, carriages are dirty
and unpainted and the trains are noisy
and uncomfortable.
Road-transport and aircraft companies
set themselves to give prompt, convenient
and courteous service; the railways give
people little more than is accorded to
their four-footed passengers.
In an effort to attract travellers the
commissioners are constantly embarking
on advertising campaigns, and some of
their posters would make a cat laugh.
One, at the moment, depicts a ballet
troupe coupled with the injunction: “Go
to the theatre by train.” Anyone wish-
ing to arrive at the theatre smothered
in dust, late for the performance, and
with a splitting headache couldn’t do
better than heed the advice.
Politically- and union-controlled, Vic-
toria’s railways have small chance of
improvement; it’s high time they were
handed over to sound business manage-
ment. Freedom from Government inter-
ference is, of course, a first'essential.
Railway property around Melbourne is
in a shocking state, and station premises
and rolling-stock are screaming for a
good clean-up and a coat of paint,
Tattered advertising matter is plastered
over every inch of space, and the general
picture is dirty and depressing. The
seedy and run-down appearance certainly
does not suggest efficiency, and yet bright
young men are urged by the Commis-
sioners to join the service and make rail-
reading their career. What a prospect!
Who wants to join a concern losing
£17,000 a day ? — Ceg (Vic.).
Democracy
Professor Wyld’s Universal English
Dictionary defines democracy as: “A
form of government in which all classes,
including the lowest, have a voice in
government, directly, or through their
chosen representatives.” in
his comments on electoral reform (B.
17/12/ ’52), defines (by implication) demo-
cracy as rule by the majority. That
definition has been accepted, apparently,
by following correspondents, although
they challenge his attitude in respect of
distribution of Parliamentary seats in
some of the States.
Isn’t it time we rejected that facile
definition and introduced some form of
representation that would really voice the
views of democracy? It is notorious that
government is becoming more and more
the monopoly of Cabinets, and that any
adverse criticism by private members
within the party is threatened by disci-
plinary action. We are too prone to look
on the majority as sacrosanct, and so
long as that outlook prevails democracy
will lack meaning.
In Switzerland, where Government port-
folios are allotted with regard to the
strength of the respective parties, we see
a form of government more nearly repre-
senting the electors’ wishes than anything
in our Federal or State politics.
A Swiss Government cannot be dis-
missed on a childish “snap” vote —or any
other kind of vote, for that matter. When
a measure is defeated that’s the end of
it, unless it is reintroduced in a form
more acceptable to a majority of members.
Another feature of Swiss government
could be copied here with benefit to
taxpayers: Members who fail to attend
Parliamentary sessions have their salaries
docked, cases of illness excepted.—
Demos (Tas.).
New States
Australians would do well to turn a
hard, dispassionate eye on proposals for
new States. Consider the cost alone. With
a population of 8.8 million, this country
is burdened with seven Parliaments; the
U.K., with a population of about 45
million, gets along very well with one.
Australia has one paid Parliamentarian
to about every 11,600 persons; in the
U.K. the corresponding figure is one to
every 72,000. Even the U.S.A., with its
49 Parliaments, is relatively much better
off ; if the number of Parliaments there
were in the same proportion to popula-
tion as in Australia, there would be
130!
Also, in addition to an extra Parliament
each new State must have its own set of
State departments.
Some arguments used by New-Staters
won’t stand examination. It is urged, for
instance, that “people are too far from
the Government.” Even if democracy
were a matter of distance, some of the
proposed new States would do little to
improve it. .One, for instance, consists
of a narrow strip of N. S. Wales stretch-
ing from the coast to the western border
and including both Sydney and Broken
Hill. Whether Broken Hill became the
new capital or Sydney retained its ancient
pre-eminence they would still be as far
from each other as ever.
In any case, distance no longer matters ;
it has been annihilated by the speed of
modem communication and transport.
It is contended also by New-Staters that
“huge areas and centralisation make
administration unwieldy.” In that case,
Commonwealth administration should
suffer considerably in comparison with
administration in, say, Tasmania or Vic-
toria, or even N. S. Wales. It would be
very difficult to prove that it does.
Then there is the complaint that “over-
grown cities speak for the whole State.”
Well, so far, every Australian State has
tended to produce an overgrown city, and
there is no reason to suppose that the
new States would be any different. Any-
way, the world is pockmarked with over-
grown cities. England has London ; the
U.S.A., New York; France, Paris;
Germany, Berlin, and so on. No sovereign
State appears to be able to escape it.
There is the further objection that
“present State boundaries sometimes join
areas with no community of interest,” and
“cut-up areas that should form natural
regions.” Well, consider the proposed
New England State. What community of
interest will the pastoralists of the Western
Plains have with the banana-growers and
sugarcane-farmers of the Tweed, or the
miners of the Hunter Valley with the
dairymen of the North Coast or
the wheatgrowers of the Western Slopes?
As for cutting-up natural regions, a glance
at the map will suffice to show that the
creation of this State would leave the
natural regions concerned just as much,
or even more, cut-up than they were
before. And what applies to the pro-
posed New England State applies to new
States in general.—l2l (N.S.W.).


IT’S COMING
THE NEW
“PHENOVIS”
WORM REMEDY
BULBS-BULBS-BULBS
I will buy your bulbs or sell you
bulbs of any description.
Fair deal, try —■
A. J. EDEN,
Bluff Rd., Moorabbin, Victoria.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Handling Meat
“C. Punch”: Electronic-steri-
lisation, artificial-fattening of
carcasses, meat-prepackaging and
weight-gain-testing of growing
stock are four major United
States scientific developments in
the beef-cattle industry, said
American Fulbright Research
Fellow Fred F. McKenzie, talk-
ing to the Aberdeen-Angus
Society in Sydney.
McKenzie, Dean of the
Faculty of Veterinary Science at
the New England University at
Armidaie (N.S.W.), soon to re-
turn to America to his post as
principal of the vqf. science
division of Oregon State Uni-
versity College, said electronic-
sterilisation of beef was a spec-
tacular new process which had
made it possible to preserve
meat for up to six months at
ordinary room temperatures. At
the end of that time the meat
looked and tasted fresh. Ex-
perimentalists had kept meat on
office mantelpieces for six
months before eating it, he said.
Limiting factor in expansion of
the process was cost of the
gigantic equipment. Engineers,
are working on simplification of
the machinery.
Posthumous stock - fattening
had substantially benefited the
commercial side of the industry.
The practice was that, at the
time of slaughter and just after
bleeding, hot beef-tallow was
injected intravenously. Effect of
the tallow was to raise the
quality or grade of the carcass
one and even sometimes two
grades.
People who had tasted arti-
ficially-fattened beef claimed,
with some justification, tba* they
could not detect any difference
from the beef of animals
naturally fattened. Two large
American packing firms were
artificially fattening carcasses.
Merchandising of meat today
in America had assumed an im-
portance equalling the scientific
approach on the production
side. Advantages were twofold,
because the attractive presenta-
tion of meat was inducing more
people to buy, despite the higher
retail cost compared with
chicken-meat and pork. A good
chicken dinner in America cost
about 14s. (Australian), pork
about 17s. (Australian) and a
good-quality beef-steak dinner
35s. 9d. to 40s. (Australian).
A housewife now could go
into the butcher-shop or food-
market and obtain, in neatly-
wrapped packages, whatever cut
of beef she desired. Prepackag-
ing was done in specially fitted
rooms, usually on a floor below
the shop. From here it was sent
to the display-counter from
which customers selected their
cuts and walked away. To meet
the still-fastidious customer,
who could not find on the dis-
play shelves just the cut desired,
attendants were provided to
escort the prospective buyer to
the cutting-room to make a per-
sonal choice.
More About Weather
“Wilco”: The so-called “low-
pressure trough” is responsible
for much of the rain received in
eastern inland Australia (B.
24/12/’52). A depression mov-
ing eastwards through the Tas-
man Sea may have such an arm
or strip (seldom very straight)
extending roughly northward to
the Gulf of Carpentaria. As the
low-pressure strip advances, the
winds in its path tend north-
east to north-west with warm
temperatures. Storms are likely
to develop in the area between
the warm air and the mass of
cold air (from the south) that
follows it.
The cold, dry air from a high-
pressure system following the
“low” will generally maintain
fine weather for a few days, after
which another low-pressure
trough can be expected.
Naturally a trough displays
variable rain tendencies along its
whole front.
Only a few storm-clouds may
precede the cooler southerly
change in some districts, whereas
other districts may get good
rain.
Particularly in coastal areas
there is sometimes a strong in-
flow of moist air (rain-clouds)
towards an oncoming trough.
Thus a trough that has passed as
a dry change through the in-
terior may yield good coastal
rain. Sometimes part of a
trough deepens into a depression
centre after moving out to sea,
and this storm may lash back
at the coast.
Though actually a fine-
weather influence lor most of
Australia, a “high” in the Tas-
man Sea can cause coastal
showers, especially in N.Q., due
to its winds collecting moisture
from the sea in their northward
journey. Periodically, during
the summer months, strong
surges of southerly air come up
against the monsoonal front in
the Coral Sea. This junction of
cold air and warm air often
leads to cyclonic development
off the coast. Luckily, such
storms generally move south-
east, but a few don’t.
The approach of one is usually
marked by a heavily overcast
sky, drizzling “thunder rain,”
with frequent heavy thunder-
squalls, usually from the east or
north-east. There are many
cloud-levels in a cyclone, but,
although different cloud-masses
may be seen coming from
various directions, the main
storm mass will be moving
south-west or west.
Distemper in Dogs
“The Barb”: N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture vet. J. N,
Henry says that at the outset the
symptoms are hard to recog-
nise. There is a slight dullness,
the dog is not eager for his
feed. After a day or so he
becomes sore in the eyes, a dis-
charge appears, he is quite dull,
lies about a good deal and may
refuse food entirely.
Treatment at this stage is rela-
tively simple, but it quickly be-
comes difficult and perhaps
hopeless as the dog contracts
the many complications associ-
ated with distemper.
It may contract bronchitis,
pneumonia, bowel trouble, ear
“This is a female pawpaw; that's a male —we don’t
know WHAT the little fellow is yet.”
and nervous complications
which in most cases cause death.
Though one attack of dis-
temper provides lifelong im-
munity, dogs are often left with
permanent disabilities such as
general weakness or nervous fits.
These complications can be
prevented by immunisation, and
anyone who breeds valuable
dogs should have them immun-
ised when they are about three
months old.
This is done by giving the dog
a fixed dose of the live distemper
virus and then controlling its
effect by anti-distemper serum.
This builds up immunity and
resistance without leaving
dangerous after-attacks.
Immunity will, in nearly every
case, last the lifetime of the dog.
Last word: Immunisation
should be done by a vet. He is
the person equipped with the
necessary knowledge.
Harvesting Phalaris
“P.T.”: A Deniliquin
(N.S.W.) farmer fitted a galvan-
ised-iron tray to the front of his
utility truck and from a phalaris
stand, which was very light in
places, harvested 801 b. of seed
by traversing the area twice.
Retail purchase of the seed
would have cost him between 9s.
and 11s. per lb., so that for about
two hours’ running of his truck
he obtained seed worth about
£4O.
Growers who want to sow
further areas of phalaris may
readily obtain seed by this
method, suggests G. A. Craw-
ford, agronomist, who points
out that the seed obtained is
already very clean, so need not
be sent away for cleaning.
Brooder for Piglets
“Humus”: New Zealand has
developed a brooder, or farrow-
ing-box, for young pigs. The
box is 3ft. square by 2ft. 6in.
high, and has an opening on one
side to allow the piglets to enter.
There they are safe from being
rolled on by the sow.
For the first week the inside
of the box is electrically lit,
which attracts the pigs into the
box and helps to keep them
warm. Straw inside the box
makes warm bedding.
Piglets live in the box, leaving
it to suckle. The danger of
being lain on has passed when
the suckers are too big for the
brooder.
Grain-sorghum
“Saw Gum”: The failure of
the British Food Corporation’s
grain-sorghum project in Queens-
land was not due to any short-
comings of the sorghum or its
suitability for the region. Some
ill-luck in the shape of drought
certainly dogged the venture in
an early stage of its develop-
ment, but that was not the chief
reason for failure, either.
Wonder crop though grain-
sorghum may be from the stand-
point of making growth on
limited soil-moisture, that quality
may also prove its undoing if it
is bogged too much.
Also, this crop is hard on
the land from the standpoints of
soil-moisture exhaustion, loss of
soil-fertility (especially nitrogen)
and physical condition. Some
other crop, or crops, which
alleviate these conditions or
tendencies need to be alternated
with it.
Grain - sorghum is largely
a carbonaceous feed for
stock. Such feed is satisfactory
for fattening or for final topping,
but not for growth and develop-
ment.
Pasture-improVement
“Agric”: Peter Fleming,
Jnr., Hurga, Cambooya (Q.),
grazed 260 ewes and 200 lambs
for a month on 18 acres of Wim-
mera-rye and lucerne pasture,
and still was unable to keep
down the growth of Wimmera-
rye. The rye and lucerne were
sown in equal proportions of
slb. per acre, and the depart-
mental adviser at Toowoomba
(R. G. Wilson) said the stand was
as good as any he had seen in
the southern States,
Army - worms attacked the
lucerne in its early stages, and
were controlled by D.D.T. In
heavier soil Fleming planted
Wimmera-rye and lucerne at the
rate of 21b. of lucerne and 51b.
of rye per acre. His soil gave
a denser crop of rye, which is
being cut for hay to make way
for a regrowth of lucerne.
On 40 acres of native-grass
land, unprepared except for
close grazing and burning of old
tufts, Fleming has achieved
splendid results from the sowing
of 31b. of Wimmera-rye, lib. of
lucerne and 40 lb. of super, per
acre. Planted on March 29 last,
the area is now a luscious pas-
ture.
On the advice of Wilson,
Fleming has established 10 acres
of lucerne and green panic—
31b. green panic and 11b. lucerne
per acre on native-grass land
broken up and fallowed for
three months. Another 40
acres of wire-grass grazing land
is to be broken up for a lucerne
and Rhodes-grass pasture.
Hoary-cress
“L. Draba”: Hoary-cress be-
longs to that group of perennial
weeds which have nearly as
many lives as the proverbial cat.
Its strong, deeply penetrating
tap-root is complete with dor-
mant buds and reserve plant-
food to start new growth when
the top is destroyed or dies down
each year.
Contact-weedkillers, such as
the chlorates, and the hormone
weedicides, 2,4-D, etc., destroy
the top growth readily enough,
but are not carried down to the
deeply-located dormant buds.
Reaching some of these buds,
however, plus preventing the
roots from building up addi-
tional reserves each year, 2,4-D
has a telling effect in time.
Spraying with that weedicide
each year, either in successive
wheat crops or in competing pas-
tures, gives almost complete
elimination of the weed in three
or four years.
Patent Peanut-planter
“P.P.P.”: A peanut-planter
invented by A. A. Nebe, Kalapa
(Q.), does away with the old-
type revolving plates, which
cracked and damaged peanut-
seeds.
To explain his principle the
inventor hung .a watering-can
containing seed-peanuts on a peg
and by tapping the spout at vary-
ing speeds caused seeds to
trickle out of the can. At the
first field - trial a vibrating
hopper with two tubes, for
double-row planting, was
mounted on an ordinary planter.
When one of the wheels of the
machine dropped into a depres-
sion the tilt caused the flow of
seeds to cease.
Germination from a test with
Red Spanish nuts, at Bracewell,
was so great that the planting-
rate normally used could be re-
duced in future plantings. Tests
have been made with vari-
ous types of nuts, and the device
was perfected with the help of
the Queensland Peanut Market-
ing Board. A demonstration is
to be given peanut-growers in
the South Burnett, at Kingaroy,
after which officers of , the De-
partment of Agriculture and
Stock will report officially on the
invention.
Groundsel-bush
“Weedexp”: Queenslanders
worried about the spread of
groundsel-bush, which has be-
come a major weed on the coast
from the border to Bundaberg,
should read a pamphlet by the
Co-ordinating Board. It has
been found that groundsel-bush
can be killed by 2,4-D or 2,4,5-T
hormone weedkillers.
For young plants up to Bft.
high, spray with an 0.2 per cent,
solution of 2,4-D or 2,4,5-T and
2,4-D combinations, provided
the plants are in healthy growing
condition. Best results come


*
4
*
4
%
4
0
%
4
WM
%
%
m
3
r
w
7.
%
\S,
VOUR GUESTS... WHILE
Certainly Aga cooks by itself, and also
keeps a meal hot almost indefinitely,
without spoiling delicious food. A
Nobel Prize Winner designed this
immaculate and faultless Cooker, which
is always alight and ready for use.
Thanks to its perfect insulation, it
keeps the kitchen clean and cool. The
Aga makes no fumes; in fact, it’s just
like owning a coke-burning angel!
May we send you particulars?
YOUR
AGA
COOKS
THE
DINNER
r THE 1
AGA
I COOKER J
\VJ ' A KN ‘ w
&&**
LEVIN & CO. ltd;
[Established in N.Z. in 1841]
Sole Australian Agents
for the AGA COOKER and BENDIX HOME WASHER
SEND FOR FREE LEAFLET TO:
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA _______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _____ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd, Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIA MALLOCH BROS, Ltd, Perth
To treble Australia's output
of FINE SHEET STEEL
When ample supplies of
suitable raw steel are avail-
able, this great Mill will roll
upwards of 80,000 tons of
the highest grade sheet steel
a year—three times more
than was available before.
Because only Lysaght’s
C.R.M. Division makes Aus-
tralia’s high grade sheet
steel, this is significant news
for many manufacturers and
the public generally. As
well, this Cold Reduction
Mill, the largest in the
Southern Hemisphere,
strengthens Australian’s
defence potential.
3111VK9
STEEL SHEET
C.R.M. DIVISION OF LYSAGHT'S
WORKS PTY. LIMITED
John Lysaght (Australia) Pty.
Limited—General Sales Agents.
SYDNEY: 33 Macquarie Place.
MELBOURNE: 70-84 Clarendon
Street, South Melbourne. ADE-
LAIDE: 13 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE: 307-311 Queen
Street. FREMANTLE: Corner
of Short and Pakenham Streets.
WELLINGTON, NX: John
Lysaght's Bristol Works Limited.
CR2A-51
from a spray delivered at 100-
1751 b. pressure to the square
inch.
For large woody plants, chop
off close to ground-level, prefer-
ably in the summer months, and
swab or spray the butt immedi-
ately with a 1 per cent, solu-
tion of the above chemicals,
making sure that the butt is
thoroughly wetted.
New Pig-protectors
“Pol China”; Taubmans an-
nounce the discovery of four
new “therapeutic formulations”
for pigs. They say “they are
absolutely unique in the agri-
cultural world and will revolu-
tionise pig-raising both in Aus-
tralia and overseas.”
The formulations are not yet
available for general distribu-
tion. Tests show they are suc-
cessful in the control of anaemia ;
in treatment and cure of blood-
dysentery, diarrhoea, enteritis
and scour ; in control of mange-
mites, lice and fleas ; and in pre-
and post-natal care of sows and
piglets, greatly reducing piglet
mortality.
The first is a mineral and vita-
min tablet called “Fervita.” It
has been test-fed to over 5000
pigs and reduced the normal
mortality due to anaemia by 70
per cent. This made the farmer
gain five pigs for every 100
tablets.
Over 500 pigs suffering from
blood-dysentery and enteritis
were treated with the second
preparation, “Enterol,” for a 98-
per-cent. cure. After treatment
the pigs gained weight rapidly.
This preparation proved just as
effective against diarrhoea and
scour.
For the first time an insecti-
cide has been added to a spray
treatment for mange-mite, lice
and fleas without affecting the
delicate skin of piglets. “Ex-
term” is an emollient which has
a soothing effect on the skin. It
gives immediate relief from irri-
tation and 100 per cent, control.
“Waymor” is a clinic pig-
powder fed to breeding sows for
the last month of pregnancy and
to litters to 12 weeks of age.
Tests on 1000 pigs reduced
mortality due to scour,
diarrhoea, enteritis and similar
diseases from the normal mini-
mum of 10 per cent, among non-
treated animals to zero. In
addition, the weight of treated
pigs was 151 b. over average at
three months.
TVuyamunite
“Geo”: Before going out to
look for uranium where you
think it might be it’s as well to
know that it isn’t found in
metallic form naturally, but
occurs in certain minerals which,
when found in sufficient concen-
trations, constitute the ores of
uranium. There are many of
these minerals, but the concen-
tration is so poor in most of
them as to render them useless.
Bulk of valuable uranium comes
from the primary metal called
pitchblende, or from secondary
minerals called carnotite, tyuya-
munite, autunite and torbernite.
There is a useful booklet,
“Prospecting for Uranium,” de-
signed to help the novice as well
as the experienced prospector,
and it contains pretty full infor-
mation on how to locate this
radioactive stuff which has be-
come the world’s No. 1 mineral.
The booklet suggests that all
country people should look
closely at “outcrops of all
mineralised formations, quartz
veins, lodes, etc.,” and has some
beautifully-colored plates to
show the searcher what uranium-
bearing minerals look like.
Vic. Wheal-winners
“Mr.”; Champion northern
Wimmera crop this year was
grown by J. Douglass and Sons,
of Buckrabanyule. Pinnacle, it
yielded 54.9 bushels per acre
after losing about three bushels
per acre in a windstorm. R. G.
Mclntosh’s crop of Quadrat at
Ellam, second, also averaged
54.9 bushels, losing to the winner
on evenness and health.
J. McCann, of Victorian De-
partment of Agriculture, says the
yields are records for the
northern Wimmera, where the
previous highest yield was 47.6
bushels, in 1951.
All crops in the competition
were of a high standard, yielding
over 45 bushels per acre and
reflecting the most favorable
season in northern Wimmera in
many years.
The Mallee championship
went to J. W. Ballantyne, of
Sea Lake, for Insignia, which
produced 42.5 bushels per acre,
one of the heaviest Mallee yields
ever. N. W. Nalder, of
Meatian West, was second, also
with Insignia.
Northern Victoria champion-
ship was won by J. S. C. Hender-
son, of Strathmerton, with
Pinnacle, which returned 48
bushels per acre, J. T, Dunne,
of Springhurst, was second, his
Pinnacle averaging 45.8 bushels.
Henderson’s yield of 48 bushels
was a record.
Flowers on the Farm
“Marea”: Most spring-flower-
ing plants are now looking
raggy. They can be renewed
and will give a lovely show of
blooms through the autumn.
Carnations, antirrhinums, del-
phiniums, pentstemons and ver-
benas are a few which give
excellent results if treated now.
Go over each plant, cutting
out long sprays and stems.
Sprinkle a little lime over all,
cultivate between plants and
water overhead.
Next day scratch in some
blood-and-bone manure near the
roots of each plant and water it
well in. After a hot day water
overhead.
Jeep Dingo-hunter
“Outback”: G. W. Beau-
champ, of Stockport, Boulia
(Q.), left his two sons and a
son-in-law to manage the
property, and with a black-boy
set out in a jeep after dingoes.
From April to October last
they destroyed 112 dogs, using
42 bottles of strychnine and
nearly a case of .303 ammo.
They also used 300 traps and
ran-down some dogs in the jeep.
Beauchamp considers the
dingo will never be beaten while
the bonus remains at £1 per
scalp; he considers it should be
£2 to encourage everyone to go
after the dogs. Unless a higher
bonus is granted by the Govern-
ment very shortly he is shifting
his sheep to a protected area
about 70 miles to the east, as,
after fighting the dogs on the
“frontier” for 26 years, he feels
it is time he had a rest. If he
does shift his sheep, at least three
other selectors on the “frontier”
will have a hard fight to keep
the dingoes in check. Beau-
champ is on the extreme outside
of the sheep country, and he has
had to face the full onslaught of
dogs as they come in, mainly
from the Northern Territory.
Hints for the Farm
“Sundowner”; Poultry need
special care during heatwaves.
Feed birds sparingly. Probably
the best method is to dispense
with the morning feed. Close-
down food-hoppers after the
birds have gone to roost.
Further steps as they become
necessary should be: hose roofs
of sheds or spray floors of pens ;
moisten litter at frequent inter-
vals ; place extra drinking-
vessels in the pens so that birds
can reach them with little effort.
“Springvale”: Constipation of
young calves is sometimes un-
avoidable —they are particularly
liable to it in their early life.
Withhold feeding for 24 hours
and give an enema injection of
warm soapy water, followed by
a dose of castor-oil given in an
equal amount of warm milk —
2oz. of each is a good measure.
Watch the stools closely. If the
first enema isn’t effective within
24 hours, repeat. Don’t give too
much food until the bowels are
normal.
“Silentio”: Pigs should be de-
wormed just after weaning and
again between 12 and 14 weeks
of age. If pigs are unthrifty
worms are generally the cause.
“Myrrhee”: Growing similar
vegetable crops on the same
ground in succession unbalances
the plant-foods in the soil and
favors the spread of disease. The
ideal sequence of crops on a
plot is: (1) leaf crops, tomatoes,
vine vegetables—using stable
manure or compost; (2) root
crops, with superphosphate, not
stable manure; (3) legumes*
using super, only. Dig in the
plants after harvesting is done.
Then start again with a leaf crop.
Never use crops of the same
type or family in succession;
for instance, don’t follow
carrots with parsnips, cabbages
with caulis, onions with leeks,
tomatoes with potatoes.
“Humus”; The days when
stable- and cow-manure were
easily obtained have gone. Fowl-
manure which has a generous
amount of litter mixed with it
furnishes organic matter as well
as a manure rich in nitrogen.
The farm-gardener with a few
fowls will obtain enough in a
year to fertilise his garden.
“M.”: Victorian Department
of Agriculture warns fruit-
growers that Rutherglen-bug is
active in some Goulburn Valley
peach-orchards, and recom-
mends a spray of 0.1 per cent.
D.D.T. emulsion. This will con-
trol Oriental fruit-moth also.
“Weedexp”: About 30 per
cent, of rabbits recover from
myxomatosis attack in the field
and are then immune to the
disease. Recent experiments
have shown that the progeny
of recovered parents, however,
are susceptible. For this reason
the development of natural mass-
immunity doesn’t seem likely.
“Spes”; The livestock-officer
at Wagga Experiment Farm
(N.S.W.) recommends a 50-50
combination of oats with wheat
for growing pigs and 60-40 for
breeders. Oats should sell at Bs.
as against wheat at 14s. Select
good plump grain, crush finely
before use and add 10 per cent,
meatmeal. Mature stock can
handle oats more efficiently
than young stock. The use of
one-third oats in the grain
ration should add another 20
per cent, profit on pig-rearing.
“C.A.A.”: If disease shows in
the poultry-run remove all birds
from and thoroughly disinfect
the houses. Scrub with a 5-per-
cent. solution of washing-soda.
Where there is a dirt floor, scrape
off the top layer and heavily lime
the floor. A satisfactory method
of fumigation is to spray the
floor with 5-to-10-per-cent, solu-
tion of formalin and immedi-
ately cover with bags.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Further rains are likely in February along the whole
eastern coast of the continent. They are likely to be heavy
in North Queensland, which may get the so-far-omitted
rain of early December.
In the southern States there should be good rains late
in February. At present a heatwave seems to be indicated;
under one cycle it shows as very severe.


/ Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEff
SOUTH WALES — Hr Divorce.
' TO JOHN FREDERICK MILLER late of
Boorowa Street Young in the State of
■ New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
CONNIE HEATHER MILLER has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 4385 of 1952
on the grounds of desertion without .lust
' cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you , wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
, Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by. 6th April 1953 and obtain
i a copy of the petition without charge
. from OWEN JONES McHUTCHISON &
, CO., .* Solicitors, of, 10 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. .. 2/-
Yearly Subscription.. 22/6
The half-way well. They
boiled the billy, spelled Duke in
the shade, yoked him again.
He must have been thinking
again. Thinking, that was a
camp. Why go on? No sense
in going on, when you didn’t
have to —and he didn’t have to ;
nobody could make him. He
stopped. He’d covered a couple
of hundred yards anyway.
Charlie slapped the reins.
Heels crashed into the cart.
Charlie got down, took Duke s
head; he pulled away, threw
Charlie off-balance, stumbling,
tripping over a four-foot length
of hardwood-board • • .
66T ALWAYS reckon,” Joe's
flat voice was saying “you
got to treat stallions different.
Y’ got to humor ’em . . . ”
WELL, he’d humored Duke
all right, with the crack of
heels against the cart echoing
the thuds of the hardwood-bbard
along the stallion’s ribs, and his
own voice raised in some wild
obscene jumble of yells and
words he couldn’t even remember
now, until the board split and
broke. He’d humored him some
more when, back in the cart,
he’d swung the long-handled
shovel on to Duke’s backside,
again and again until the horse
plunged into the collar and the
last swing missed entirely, crack-
ing the boy across the shins.
“Are you hurt?” he’d yelled.
“No? Well, hang on—we’re
off!”
And off they were, with the
stallion walking as he’d never
walked before, and Kuyu rolling
round the floor nursing a
purpling shin; and whenever the
horse slowed a trifle the rattle
of the shovel on the boards sent
him off again full-speed.
TIE looked along the veranda.
There was a piece of three-
by-one hardwood leaning in the
corner ...
“I’ll tell y’ how to handle him,
Charlie,” Joe said again. “Y’
got to humor ...”
Charlie looked at the board,
looked at Joe.
“You know,” he said, “I think
I’d better go to bed.”
a feud
by F.L. COMBS
yi S his grandchild, I never
yH greatly respected Pa Bos-
( I tock. He was fussy;
always afraid chimneys
would catch fire, would not have
a Guy Fawkes within a mile of
the house, let the various Bostock
horses get the best of him, and
was in a fidget of anxiety when,
bumping over river-beds half-a-
mile wide, he came to the main
stream, which might be two feet
deep. At my then age it was
dash and bravado that appealed
to me. So far as I was con-
cerned the fact that Grandpa
Bostock slaved cheerfplly from
seven in the morning till nine at
night cut no ice. Nor did his
tough interviews with his banker,
a little man with fierce whiskers
and a sudden stomach, impress
me. Pa may have surmounted
two financial crises a year, but
what he lacked was romance.
It was Ma who was heroic ;
with her lace cap and her hair-
pads over her ears she looked a
Florence Nightingale sort of
woman. Inside the imperium of
the Bostock sept it was her word
that went. That was why the
insurrection of my Aunt Emily
left us all in such a daze. Her
to take a fall out of Ma! Ma
was as much a matriarch as the
old queen. Pa would have been
astounded to learn that any
weighty decision was over to
him, or that it was up to him
to take the helm. He was a most
undemanding man; beyond his
weekly plug of Juno he asked
for nothing, and if he asserted
himself it was solely in regard
to his superannuated pets and
the boiling (never baking) of a
jam roly-poly every Tuesday.
Ma treated him with an affec-
tionate toleration not untinged
with humorous contempt.
Everyone in her circle turned
to Ma as a prop and stay; and
she could be the heavy artillery
all right. In those days of going
on the bust she dressed down
more than one convivial son-in-
law, and she saw to it that we
all remained steadfast in the old
ways. In lean months, when the
charge-account at McColl’s ran
up to eighty or a hundred pounds,
and the firm could get no work,
it meant much that she held on
her course with an unwrinkled
brow. On a very restricted stage,
and without limelight, she played
for fifty years a great role. There
are just as many people great
in a small way as there are
others little in a great one.
Ma had faults, and one bad
fault. In action kind and forget-
ful of self, she had a bitter
tongue that bred bad feeling, the
more so as it relished the plain,
unvarnished truth. And let it be
admitted, too, that she could ill
endure a rival near her throne.
APPLETHORPE had rapidly
polarised itself, as do most
small places. Those were days
when strong drink raged, and
the North Pole, so to speak, was
sober, steady people, while the
South Pole had a preference for
joy unconfined. Mr. Kimbal
belonged to the latter group. At
least he would have if accorded
any standing. As it wa,s, he was
just a hanger-on, waiting rather
cunningly to be caught up in the
whirl of gaiety when things got
properly going. Hector, I am
sorry to say, though a Bostock,
wove in and out of both groups.
At bottom the clash was
between old Adam who had
eaten the apple and an Adam
equally old who refused it. In
other words, it was a contention
between sons of Belial blown
with insolence and draught beer
on the one hand, and Puritans
on the other. Puritanism, I need
hardly-say, is always and every-
where breaking out or ready to
break out. I last read of it in
its extreme form in the ver-
minous, false-faced case of
Hadji Baba a hundred and fifty
years ago. It is its own insuffer-
able goodness that gets it down
after it has produced a main
crop of Holy Willies.
Ma, with four daughters
married and three with no other
career, was emphatically on the
side of the abstainers. She
colored my outlook. How it
could be that anything so sinful
as the Settlers’ Arms did not
sink into the earth passed my
young understanding. Hector,
the only Bostock that darkened
its djoors, slunk off to it, and
cut Mr. Kimbal short when, the
day after, the latter sought, for
mirth’s sake, to revive memories
of a junketing in the Arms —
probably because such warmings-
over of festivity went stale on
him.
Pa was in an embarrassing
position. In the Old Country he
had had his glass of ale. Now
that Ma was crusading, he, of
course, eschewed it. But what
was he to do when offered hos-
pitality in the homes of those
he built for? For there was no
doubt but what they called the
tune. Those were days when
you had to grovel for building-
contracts. Once, as an eyewit-
ness, I was brought hard up
against Pa’s difficulties. He had
taken me in the gig on a journey
to Holmdene —I think in order
that I might run home with the
dismal tidings if he fell into the
Tokomaka (eighteen inches) and
was' drowned. The owner of
Holmdene offered him a glass of
bottled ale. I goggled. Would
he down it? He did. I gasped.
He was offered another. Would
he down that? He did. What
is more, his glasses started to
sparkle. I was inwardly aghast.
Why, on the way home, did he
give me a shilling? Was it
because the owner of Holmdene
had ordered three-hundred-worth
of extras? Or was it a bribe?
At any rate I took it. Two days
later, when Ma was going for
Hector because of his goings-on.
Hector looked straight at Pa;
Pa looked at the ceiling.
IT was round about that time
that the terrible word wowser
got going ; a word that stung
like a serpent and bit like an
adder. I bloodied Tommy Kim-
bal’s nose for using it to me,
and he bloodied mine far worse,
for he could use his hands to
some purpose. You get to know
everything in a school play-
ground. It grieved me to learn
that we Bostocks were all wow-
sers, but that all the same “Old
Bostock” never said no to the
stuff if he could get it on the
cheap; and I got to know all
about the doings of my Uncle
Hector, how he and others had
spent a riotous evening lifting
each other over the bar to kiss
a new barmaid —how he had
drunk a quart-jug dry without
once stopping for breath, etc.,
etc.
In those days Scripture was
referred to on such matters.
What about the sacramental
wine? How were you to escape
the craving which set to work
on you with the first glass? Then
came the reassuring answer —
grape-juice. Such was my dread
of that craving that I abstained
from hop-beer.
There were terrific arguments
under the Bostock roof-tree.
Emily being gone. Hector had
to fight his battles lone-handed.
I remember a horrible picture of
a hobnailed liver that appeared
on the school wall at that time.
It made me shudder. “Father,
dear father, come home with me
now” was being memorised that
year. Did “father” have a liver
Like that? There could be little
doubt about it.
Ma, because she so desired,
and because of her powers of
biting rhetoric, led the Drys. A
Mrs. Cropsedge led the Wets,
the partisans of jest and jollity.
Ma was heavily and powerfully
built; Mrs. Cropsedge excelled
in bone. She was a wicked
woman; she had no papers, and
her “Mrs.” was at best' only a
courtesy title; but Mr. Crop-
sedge, even when full, dared say
nothing about it. What a source
of corruption in a little place
like Applethorpe! It was the
sort ; of scandal Crabbe had
exposed nigh on two hundred
years ago. Indeed, so slow are
time’s changes that the major
part of Grabbe’s Village could
have been written about Apple-'
thorpe,
A MEETING between Mrs.
Cropsedge and Ma reminded
you of three-deckers rising out
of the foam. Its dignified civility
was immense, but Ma’s eyes had
a level, hard look, and Mrs.
Cropsedge’s more vivacious ones
snapped. Why needed they to
meet? Because they were for-
ward in all public causes.
Applethorpe was co-operative
(a word not then used) in school
picnics, in socials and dances, in
enterprises to raise money for a
band, or for the relief of burnt-
out families in the ninety-mile
bush, or to help the various
churches that shared its cure of
souls. What a tidal-rip of
opposed ideologies there was at
the meetings for these purposes!
With what silent scorn the be-
lievers in wholesome enjoyment
moved among those who leaned
to virtue’s side; and with what
a frosty civility the virtuous
greeted the votaries of pleasure!
There were meetings previous to
which something flabbergasting
that Ma had said had got round.
As that Mr. Cropsedge was wise
not to try to make an honest
woman of Mrs. Cropsedge;
there was no way of doing that.
Or that Mrs. Cropsedge, who
had so haughtily hoped she
didn’t intrude, should wake up
to the fact that she couldn’t help
it anywhere where there were
respectable people.
Mrs. Cropsedge could not
match this bitter wit, so she
resorted to the bludgeon, thank-
ing her stars that she was not a
killjoy or a spoilsport like the
Bostocks. These remarks, never
repeated face to face, reached
the parties most concerned, and
kept an otherwise still neighbor-
hood on the simmer. Mrs. Crop-
sedge’s repeated opinion that
the Bostocks had nothing to be
stuck-up about met at second-
hand with the retort that it would
give one something to laugh
about if the Cropsedges were
stuck-up. Pa and Mr. Crop-
sedge were both cowards, and,
instead of taking sides, were
amiable enough when they met.
Indeed, Mr. Cropsedge liked to
drop into the shop for a crack.
AT one school-picnic meeting,
on a warm December after-
noon, having been detained for
some misdemeanor and put to
stand with my hands behind me,
I was present —in the porch and
forgotten.
Who was to take the chair?
The sparring began at once.
Mrs. Cropsedge proposed one of
her faction.
“Oh, no,” replied the lady
sarcastically. “Not with Mrs.
Bostock here. I know my place.”
“It is a good thing to know,
ma’am,” said Ma.
Right from the outset drawn
swords were flashing in the air.
Who would bring the milk this
time? Mrs. Kelso, a Crop-
sedgite, would again. Then, if
she liked, Mrs. Pascoe (one of
Ma’s backers) would lend her a
clean can. There was nothing
very subtle about these innuen-
does.
At last came the item on the
agenda that all had been wait-
ing for. To Mr. Cropsedge, Mr.
Pockley, the licensee of the
Arms, had made an offer of a
ten-gallon cask for the men.
Thereupon Ma, bristling,
blocked the fairway. “Was it so
that some persons, unnamed,
should make an exhibition or
themselves in front of the chil-
dren?” she askedr A school
picnic was not for the grown-
ups ; it was to give the children
some innocent pleasure. •
“What harm is there in a glass
or two of ale?” Mrs. Cropsedge
said. “It needn’t be touched by
those who prefer vinegar.”
A line of cleavage became
clear at this point. By a rising
and voluble vote it was decided
that there should be no beer on
the picnic-ground.
The result was that there was
an intermittent and straggling
procession of males down to a
copsewood half-a-mile away,
from the picnic sprea.d. Did Pa
go thither? He dared not. But
Hector did, and there ■ was a
tremendous altercation in the
Bostock ' home the next day.
However, as every child in the
school got a prize, the picnic
performed its main function. A
score of lads, who almost floated
themselves on the raspberryade
they quaffed, were, I suppose,
graduating for more potent
beverages sold at the Settlers’
Arms later on.
THE tide of feeling was run-
ning hot on the prohibition
issue at this time, and causing
perfectly impartial politicians
some anxiety, so the village
bickered with animus. But then
came a ’flu epidemic of a major
kind. The Bostocks proved not
to be ’flu-resistant. Even Ma,
after nearly killing herself, caved
in. Pa, as undertaker and indis-
pensable, had to keep going, for
there were many deaths, the
dread reaper smiting the dissi-
pated and the strait-laced im-
partially.
Mrs. Cropsedge thus became
the mainstay of the morale of
Applethorpe, and expanded and
became exceeding glad in her
authority. To my amazement —
did she intrude? —she entered
the Bostock home and put every-
thing to rights, giving Mrs.
Kimbal the duty-work to do and
seeing that the abundance of
yellow soap supplied was used
to some purpose.
Ma —how were the mighty
fallen? —lay prostrate, and to
her Mrs. Cropsedge said, “Mrs.
Bostock, I know how little you
like this, but you’ve just got to
put up with it. When the ’flu
goes I’ll go, and there need never
be another word said about it.”
For the first time in twenty
years Ma, who had worked week
in and week out till she was
ready to drop, was given time
to reflect. She was humbled.
When the epidemic passed she
insisted on going to the Crop-
sedge home. She was, of course,
asked in. She went. ' She was
offered a cup of tea, and took it.
Then, “Mrs. Cropsedge,” she
said, “I know there’s a bitter
side to my tongue. I’ve come
here' to admit that. I’ve said
things. I ought ,to be ashamed
of, and I apologise for them.
You’re, -a good woman and
there’s nothing we Bostocks
wouldn’t do for you.”
'Mrs. Cropsedge said that at
such a time there was a call for
everyone to do their best, and
that was all she had done.
I remember one of the four
peripatetic parsons, going out of
his way to say something about
the epidemic. How those most
loved were .chastened and that
the greatest of these-was charity.
He made a poor fist of it, and
was seven minutes over his time,
and I, for one, resented it.
ITPHE experience altered Ma, I
A hardly know whether for
better or worse. It breached her
splendid self - confidence and
caused a softness that even
Snooks presumed on.
One night she had been to the
Kelso home, where there was
sickness. I had been sent to
come home with her, for the
side road was none of the best,
and her eyesight was no longer
what it had been. The Crop-
sedge home was lighted-up as we
passed it, and there were sounds
of boisterous merriment from
inside it.
“Well, well!” said Ma, when
I remarked on the noise, imply-
ing that it was unseemly. “Every-
one must judge for themselves
and go their own. way, I sup-
pose.”
This I take to have been a sub-
mission fall granted long before
the term was invented.
A postscript. Mrs. Cropsedge
was invited to my Aunt Martha’s
wedding, and gave a five-bottle
electro-plated cruet, a thing I
have not for a generation seen
on any table. Thus does civili-
sation, casting off outmoded
forms, move on to fresh
triumphs.


The autobiography of the ex-Communisl leader
CECIL SHARPLEY
The Great Delusion
A sincere, factual narrative, written without bitterness, and agreeably devoid of
self-dramatisation.
“ a terrible indictment of Communism.” —News Chronicle.
At all Baoksellers - - 11/6 :: HEINEMANN
AVAILABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
THEY DO IT WITH MIRRORS
By Agatha Christie
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
THE AUSTRALIAN ROAD-
SIDE, *>y Edna Walling
The quiet beauty of our roadsides
in one hundred and ten pages of text
and glorious photographs.
30/- (post Bd.)
FARMING IS FUN,
by A. Bertram Cox
Hilarious and informative the ex -
perience of a city Accountant who
became a * gentleman farmer.
15/- (post Bd.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Casllereagh St., Sydney := 66-68 Elieab.il. St., Melbourne, C.l
them, and since his Collected Poems,
J934-52 (containing ten new pieces) hap-
pens to have been published by Dent
simultaneously with Mr. Devaney’s essay,
it is convenient to take another sample
of his poetry and relate it to what Mr.
Devaney says about modern verse in
general; for instance, the first stanza of
“In Country Sleep,” which is presumably
about a small girl asleep and dreaming
after having had fairytales read to her ;
and which, in its grace and tenderness,
reminds one very much of a delightful
poem written by the Australian poet
Kenneth Mackenzie to and about his
daughter in war-time: —
Never and never, my girl riding far and near
In the land of the hearthstone tales, and spelled
asleep,
Fear or believe that the wolf in a sheepwhite
hood
Loping and bleating roughly and blithely shall
leap,
My dear, my dear,
Out of a lair in the flocked leaves in the dew
dipped year
To eat your heart in the house in the rosy wood.
Mr. Devaney is much troubled through-
out Poetry in Our Time by an anonymous
“They,” a sort of collective hobgoblin-
representing all modern poets, “They,”
he says, all imitated Eliot (page
3) ; “they” have repudiated the imagin-
ative or visionary “something else” in
poetry; “they” have mocked at, “as a
delusion and a folly,” the “strange power
of rhythm, music and phrase which is
the language of poetry”; “they” would
throw out “The Ancient Mariner” and
“La Telle Dame Sans Mere!” as “not
worth having” ; “they” have thrown out
all emotion (page 44); “they” ignore the
generous and heroic and beautiful in
human nature and “give only the vice
and the vileness”; “they” threw out-
rhyme altogether and now have sub-
stituted the artifice of half-rhyme*, being
“terribly careful to avoid rhyme through-
out even when it naturally presents it-
self” ; “they” cultivated obscurity even
when they had a perfectly clear thought
to communicate ; and “they” used only
“the simple, primitive iambic beat, which
even our blackfellows know. . .the only
one ever used in modernism, when they
had a metre at all.”
Mr. Devaney, of course, is not talking
about this particular poem of Dylan
Thomas’s; and some of what he says is,
in a general way, true enough—but not
true enough to publish in a responsible
book of criticism, where sympathy and
penetration in appreciation need to be
matched by precision in attack. Here is
one poem, obviously, which has the
imaginative “something else” ; which has
rhythm, music and felicity of phrase ;
which enters the magical world of 'The
Ancient Mariner” and “La Belle Dame
Sans Merci”; which is full of tender
emotion and not at all vicious or vile ;
which is in correct rhyme ; which is not
obscure and not in “the primitive iambic
beat” but in lilting anapaests and dactyls.
As well as, the fine qualities of i'. S.
Eliot and the many excellent poems by
other modems such as MacNeice, Auden,
Spender and Day Lewis, practically all
Australian'poetry since Shaw Neilson is
excluded from Mr. Devaney’s field of
awareness.
Reviewed Briefly
Fire on the Wind: David Garth
(Dymocks). In spite of a jacket which
would deter most buyers with any taste,
this is a well-printed book and a first-
rate adventure-yam. Its main setting is
in Michigan’s pine-forest country, rapidly
developing in the 1870’s, and providing a
happy hunting-ground for honest and dis-
honest developments in respect to timber,
minerals, railroads and exploitation of
the Indians. The romantic interest is a
little incredible, but so are most of the
best adventure-stories. Australian readers
will be interested to find extracts from
the ballad of “Jack Donahue,” said to
have travelled to America via the Cali-
fornia gold-rush.
* * * *
The Law of the Vultures: Phyllis
Altman (Cape). Set mostly in Johannes-
burg, this novel, told in sparing document-
ary prose, sets down the story of several
negroes to demonstrate the apparent
hopelessness of present racial conflicts.
Its theme is not unlike that of Cry the
Beloved Country, and, in its chief char-
acter, Thabo Thaele, the book is remini-
scent of but inferior to Joyce Cary’s
wonderful analysis of the tragedy of a
black clerk in Mister Johnston. The prob-
lem, here, would seem to be one not so
much of racial intolerance as of a com-
plete failure in reciprocal understanding
between races. It would appear, also, to be
almost insuperable, for the difficulties
described in this and similar books are
not unlike those faced in England during
the industrial revolution, with the intro-
duction of part-education, superimposed
on a hideously-divided African society.
As in an aloof case-history, Phyllis Altman
presents the disease admirably, but it is
miserable reading and she has no sug-
gestions for a cure.
* * *
Carl Nielson, Symphonist, 1865-1931 :
Robert Simpson (Dent). Finland has her
Sibelius, and of late there has been some
effort to get similar recognition for Den-
mark’s Nielson. This work is a thematic
and constructional analysis of Nielson’s
six symphonies, three concertos, etc., with
copious musical illustrations. In the
“Biographical Appendix” we learn that_
Nielson was the son of a musical house-
painter on the island of Fyn, born about
ten miles south of Hans Andersen’s birth-
place. There are many portrait-plates, a
chronological list of his main works, a
list of Nielson recordings available in
Great Britain, and an index.
* * * *
Colossal Corcoran on Smoke Island:
W. Ingram Morgan (E. W. Cole). Cor-
coran is the hero of a number of similar
Australian boys’ books. In this .one
Corcoran and the Indian anthropologist,
Professor Mansoor Ali, get interested in
Smoke Island, once the meeting-place of
aborigines from up and down the Queens-
land coast. But there were more vil-
lainous interests in Smoke Island, and
adventures and kidnappings by sea and
land end with a battle in which the par-
ticipants throw gold bricks—stolen and
hidden on the island—at one another,
probably the first use of this kind of
blunt instrument in fiction.
* * * *
No Time For Cowards: Phoebe Hes-
keth (Heinemann). This collection of
lyrics, frequently on nature themes, is,
in its spontaneity, use of imagery and
its mastery of form, true poetry. How-
ever, in spite of claims which Herbert
Palmer makes in his preface, the work,
though in many ways satisfying, is of a
minor order. Phoebe Hesketh is too often
content to rely, not perhaps on a cliche,
but on a phrase that fails to surprise and
, which sounds as if it had been said often
before. Again, not content with the clear
implications of her own instinctive ex-
pression, she mars her achievement by
summing-up too many of her lyrics with
some intrusively dogmatic statement.
* * * *
History of the World: edited by W. N.
Weech, M.A. (Odhams, Ltd.). A revised
edition of the book first published m
1939, bringing the story up to the Korean
war: which, since it begins in the days
when New Zealand was allegedly
joined by a land-bridge to Siberia, is
quite a stretch of time to cover in one
volume. Chapters are written by a
variety of contributors, mostly head-
masters of British schools ; the material
runs to 1000 pages. Such a compendium
necessitates a close-packed, encyclopaedic
style ; but the courageous reader will find
this surprisingly readable, with much
about music, art and literature as well
as the various forms of massacre by
which mankind makes history.
* * * ,♦
Exploration and Discovery: H. L
Wood (Hutchinson’s University Library).
An introduction to the great voyages of
discovery, from Roman times to Marco
Polo, Columbus, the Cabots, Quiros,
Tasman, Cook ; with additional notes on
African and polar exploration. The field
is too vast to cover in one short volume,
and the compression of the stories neces-
sarily robs them of much of their color
and drama. However, Dr. Wood, who is
a lecturer in geography at the University
of London, has done his best to enliven
his facts with human interest; and the
wide scope of the book may make it
useful to the ordinary reader as well as
the student.
* * * *
Lord Randolph Churchill: Winston S.
Churchill (Odhams). Reprint of Mr.
Churchill’s life of his remarkable father.
Lord Randolph Churchill, who in a short
twenty years of politics before he died
at 45 made himself a world figure who
almost certainly would have changed the
course of English history had he lived
a few years longer. His name lives
chiefly for his part in the Irish debates
of the House of Commons of the early
eighties of last century and his carrying
of the Conservatives’ war into the preserve
of the “democrats” by the foundation of
working melt’s Conservative clubs and by
initiating and developing the Primrose
League. He became Chancellor of the
Exchequer and leader of the House of
Commons at 36, but threw in his offices
in a few months as the result of differ-
ences with the Cabinet over the Army and
Navy Estimates, He romantically
married and left a son whose fame was
to eclipse his own. He was widely
travelled, the author of several books, a
power in politics and one of the most
energetic and dynamic British statesmen
of all time. He died of general paralysis
in 1894. Mr. Churchill’s book, naturally
limited in its ambit by his filial
feelings, is assured oi its place as the
standard biography partly because it is
authoritative in every aspect and partly
because its author cannot help giving
color and life to the discussion of even
the dullest political events.
“THE BULLETIN " CROSSWORD No. 210
Across.
I—Stone1 —Stone the supreme extremes to
peace in Spain. (5)
4 —Record Communist has it to bring
into ill-repute. (9)
9 —African fruit makes nine great
with a taste by Hibernia East.
(9)
10 — Crimson-hearted girl fared badly.
(5)
11— Regan’s old man and Kelly are
erudite. (7)
13 —Put monkeys into tins as appe-
tisers. (7)
15 — Beast what gives the solution of
the Bradman enigma. (6)
16 — Cancer or certainly a place where
the growth is prolific. (6)
19 —Blushing companion 6f the kan-
garoo is shut-up. (6)
21—Who says money in ancient
Greece? (6)
24 — One drunkard sends back an-
other drink. (7)
25 — Pennies in the middle of the fruit
handkerchief. (7)
26 — I complain in reverse for one
who urged the Bethlehemites to
call her Mara. (5)
28—Silver account urges the boy to
indulge in petting a bird. (9)
30 — Type of philosophical system is a.
kind of a bore after the first
century. (9)
31— Royal turn for Beer. (5)
Down.
1 — Tickle a flier the crook swallowed.
(9)
2 Bigshots criticise the first month s
tomtoms and tabors. (11)
3 A girl for life? (3)
4 Coppers blow was in the van but
diminished. (8)
5 It’s silver jaw. (6)
6 About the thinner purifier. (7)
7 uck’s daughter. (3)
8— Siamese courtesan who travelled
with Alexander the Great. (5)
12 —Joshua was son of this sister. (3)
14— Stationery activity lets father give
a hair-do to a monarch. (5-6)
17 —Mongrel fish shortener (9)
] 8-Obstinate stump brought to life.
(8)
20—Empires hold such a hazardous
enterprise. (7)
22 —Not up with zee fashion m
weight. (3)
23 — Taint disputed as the end of many
a disease. (4)
24 Do this in a music lesson stimu-
lant. (5)
27 —Taken in hand by the Volga Boat-
man. (3)
29 —Duck down when a boy is coming
up. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 209


N.S.W.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-.
facturers. Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Elder Smith & Co. Ltd., Bourke
St., Melbourne. ~ _
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Ltd., Adelaide; Stockowners’ Co-operative
Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd,
Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
»hls entire page Is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAX-Virxuk Limited
January
A monthly icaturc ioi ail ,i;ose interested in Agriculture
1953
HARNESSING THE
‘FIRE OF HEAVEN’
A 2000 YEAR MYSTERY
When Thales, one of the seven wise men of Greece, in the year 600 BjC. found that amber
or Jet, when rubbed, had the power of drawing to themselves leaves, straw or feathers, he thus
discovered electricity.
Prior to those days, people went in fear and
terror of what they knew as “the fire of
heaven,” for lightning was the weapon of the
Gods, the terrible Thunderer which mere
mortals must avoid.
So through the ages this terror existed, until
it was discovered that “the fire of heaven”
was also found in earthly objects everywhere,
and could be produced and chained to do the
bidding of man. From then onwards many
famous names have been associated with the
development of “the fire of heaven,” and a
tremendous amount of research, experiment-
ing, hard work and thrills have gone into the
history of electrical science. What a wealth of
names, Guericke, Franklin, Morse, Galvini,
Faraday, Volta, Bell, Marconi, Edison and
hundreds of others, men who have been
wizards in the magical things which they have
accomplished with electricity. Through the life-
work of these eminent scientists, we humans
of today are able to command this great force
to do our bidding, under the name of
electricity, it cooks our meals, gives us light,
drives our trains and trams, puts a girdle round
the earth in a matter of minutes and provides
a thousand and one other services.
Today we buy it in measured quantities like
food, and it is so important in our modern
lives that it is not difficult to realise that
electricity is matter that makes up the Material
Universe.
ELECTRICITY
IN AUSTRALIA
Electric lighting has been in general use in the
large cities only since the First World War.
Since then this boon has gradually spread to
the larger country towns and nearby rujral
areas.
Australia, however, was in the unfortunate
position of having a small population spread
over large areas. The provision of reticulated
electricity for distant rural areas was therefore
impossible. This fact encouraged the develop-
ment of small, low-priced generating sets to
bring the benefits of electric light and power
to every home, no matter how isolated. Moffat-
Virtue Ltd. entered this field in the early ’3os.
Its engineers had soon designed and put into
quantity production a range of lighting plants
to fill the needs of every country homestead.
M.V. Light and Power Plants soon attained
tremendous popularity. Today, in many
thousands of country homes, Moffat-Virtue
plants are bringing the comforts of modern
living to those beyond reach of power-lines.
For economy and reliability Moffat-Virtue
Lighting Plants are unchallenged. In a recent
test a standard 1 000 Watt 32 Volt M.V. Plant
produced the average household’s 10 day
supply of electricity for a few shillings.
Remember, these figures were based on the
performance of the small M.V. 1000 Watt
Petrol Driven Plant. They would be even
lower for a diesel or kerosene powered plant
of larger capacity.
M.V. Plants can run washing machines,
vacuum cleaners, irons, fans and many other
electrical comforts, too. Workshop tools can
be fitted with electric motors and run from
M.V. Plants, making farm repair jobs faster and
easier.
M.V. Light-
ing Plants: Petrol,
Kerosene and
Diesel powered
models, from 700
Watt 32 Volt to
4 Kilowatt 110
Volt.
Every Modern
Amenity...
M.V. Plants are obtainable from stock in
a range from 700 watts capacity up to 4
kilowatts.
£ M.V. Plants are designed and built for
outstanding economy and dependable
performance.
Every plant undergoes rigorous testing in
the machine shop before it is allowed to
leave the factory.
£ The Generators have been especially
designed for cool, trouble-free running,
with larger than standard armatures.
Temperature rise does not exceed 40 deg.
C. above atmospheric temperature.
£ The Plants are assembled on rigid steel
bases and fitted with adjustable vee-belt
drives.
Instruments are separately mounted on a
highly polished switchboard.
All M.V. Light and Power Plants can be
bought for cash or a small deposit, with easy
instalments. Get full particulars from any of
the Distributors listed below.
EX-NEWSBOY HELPED
CREATE A NEW WORLD
THOMAS ALVA EDISON was bom in
Milan, Ohio, U.S.A., on Fc : ruary 1 1, 1847,
of Dutch and Scots parentage. In the poorest
of circumstances, his parents were always
just a step ahead of their creditors. Young
Edison, with only three months schooling
at Port Huran, was then sent to work.
FATE TOOK A HAND
As a railways newsboy, the youngster
was immediately captivated by the Railway
Telegraph Operator’s equipment. When
he was fifteen Edison managed to get a
job as a telegraph-operator himself. His
curiosity fully aroused by this mysterious
force which no one fully understood,
he began to study and experiment in his
spare time. During the next few years
the amazing brain of the uneducated ex-
newsboy conceived and perfected many
practical and amazingly important inven-
tions, from ticker-tape machines and auto-
matic telegraph systems to the gramophone,
and incidentally earning him a comfortable
income. Then, on October 21, 1879, he
succeeded in making an incandescent char-
coal filament lamp.
The lamps used in literally billions through-
out the world today are basically the same
as that first made by Edison. In all, the great
inventor patented I,o33inventions, mostly
electrical, and discarded many more whic
were later perfected by others. He diec
October 31,1931.
SKILL AND
CONCENTRATION
This man is turning up a flywheel . . . and
he's throwing all his know-how and concen-
tration into the job. The flywheel is for an
M.V. Engine—rthe power supply for M.V.
Lighting Plants—and it has to be perfect.
Using the latest production technique and
highly-skilled hands, Moflat-Virtue Ltd., are
turning out equipment as fine as any in the
world. It pays to buy Precision-tested
M.V. Equipment.
