

FOR PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION, BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“STEELE RUDD S” ORIGINAL “DAD AND DAVE”-p>*ge
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3833
Wednesday, July 29, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N S W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
BOLTON CASTLE. SCENE OF MANY A ROYAL NIGHT-LONG FEAST
THE battlements of ancient castles in Yorkshire often provide some of the
finest views in Britain, and although the castles decay, the rivers, the hills
and the moors have an essential element of permanence. The beauties of
Swaledale and Wensleydale are presided over by the imposing castles of
Richmond and Bolton.
Although Bolton Castle has stood above the River Ure in Wensleydale,
near Leyburn, for over five hundred years it is still in a comparatively good
state of repair. It was built in the fourteenth century by Henry Scrope, a
lawyer, whose descendants became the powerful Lords of Wensleydale and
Wardens of the Western Marches from 1377 to 1649. For three hundred
years Bolton Castle was handed down to succeeding generations of the family
who eventually married into the wealthy Neville family
,
A son of the founder of Bolton Castle was Richard Scrope, Archbishop
of York, who was beheaded during the Wars of the Roses; so disturbed
was the executioner at having to decapitate an Archbishop that he missed
his first blow and the head was severed only after repeated strokes of
the axe.
~, T „_ , „ , , ,
During the reign of James 11, Bolton Castle was renowned for its
hospitality—the banquets frequently lasting throughout the entire night,
during which time the guests were free to amuse themselves or to take a
nap whenever they felt so disposed, but the wine and dishes remained on
the table. At other times their host called the company at midnight to go
hunting across the countryside by torchlight.
~ . „ . ~ ’ , ~ „ , _
After her flight 4o England in 1568 the unfortunate Mary Queen of Scots
was held in Bolton Oastle tor six months. The room, near one of the towers,
in which she was confined may still be seen and also the Window from which
she made a brief escape by being lowered to the ground by an attendant,
Following her recapture she was removed to safer custody in Staffordshire.


A BRILLIANT AUSTRALIAN TRILOGY
By ELEANOR DARK
THE TIMELESS LAND. . 15/-
THE STORM OF TIME 15/-
NO BARRIER. • • 1 6 /'
Available From All Booksellers
COLLINS
The Red Page
WOLFE FAIRBRIDGE
Many people probably know something
about the Fairbridge Farm Schools estab-
lished by the Rhodes Scholar Kingsley
Fairbridge to give children “from many
a dark and dreary back street” in Eng-
land a chance on the land in Australia.
Few—even in the literary world, for his
work was seldom seen —would know that
his son Wolfe Seymour Fairbridge, who
died of polio in 1950 at the age of 31, be-
ing then a representative of U.N.E.S.C.O.
at the International Fisheries Conference
held at Cronulla, N. S. Wales, was a poet
of fine quality.
As T. Inglis Moore says in his admir-
able introduction to Poems (Angus and
Robertson), a memorial selection of
Wolfe Fairbridge’s verse published with
the backing of the Commonwealth Fund,
the poem by which he is most likely to
live in Australian anthologies is “Con-
secration of the House,” which is, in
fact, already included in Dr. George
Mackaness’s Poets of Australia. It is
more complete, more rounded than many
of his other short pieces; it is less
“private,” or at least speaks to and for
a wider audience ; it is singularly appro-
priate to the present decade, when a
house has become such a rare possession ;
and it is perhaps most remarkable in
that it handles a theme on which Yeats
may have been supposed to have said
the last word in “A Prayer for My
Daughter,” without any impression of
deriving from that source but with a
warm and sturdy independence:
House, you are done . . .
And now before
The high contracting parties take
Final possession, let us stand
Silent for this occasion at the door.
Who here a lifelong compact make:
That you were not for trading planned,
Since barter wears the object poor,
But are henceforth our living stake
—And hereunto we set our hand.
Be over us, he strong, be sure.
There are some other short to medium-
length pieces worth taking into account:
“Diaspora”; “The Stranger” ; “Rip van
Winkle” ; “African Pioneer” (a compact
portrait better than the longer and looser
“Flinders in Mauritius”); the clear,
penetrating thought if not the didactic
style of “Entering Hobart” ; the sequence
“My Lady at the Window” which, if
erratic in style (with an echo from Eliot;
as other poems echo Hopkins, Slessor
and Fitz Gerald), is full of the love of
life and will not soon be forgotten by
anybody who has spent a Sunday on
Bondi beach:
Gay canvas canopies and rubber mats,
Umbrellas and enormous hats,
Oils, ointments, unguents, creams,
Bundled and rugged like Bedouins;
Huge glasses, blank as insect eyes—
And insect-like, each sunning lies
Expanding iridescent sails,
Or weaves elaborate goldfish tails
Of turquoise, cherry, cinnamon, cerise,
That mask more beauty than all marbled
Greece.
Their outward being all their purpose
serves;
The sand bears imprint of their luscious
curves,
While the white brilliance of a thousand
suns
All faculty and thinking stuns.
But the outstanding achievements of
the book are two long poems, “The Man
Who Caught the Wind” and “Darwin”:
a strange contrast in themes, since the
first tells an aboriginal legend, actual or
invented, and the other is about the Eng-
lish scientist Charles Darwin.
“The Man Who Caught the Wind” is
rare among attempts to bring the native
legends into the Australian literary orbit
in that Fairbridge has made it sympa-
thetic, compelling, significant to the
European mind ; whereas such stories so
often remain mere curiosities, of no real
meaning to anyone except an aborigine.
Roland E. Robinson has occasionally
been able to make the legends significant
in prose, and Fairbridge has done it in
verse partly because his theme of Ngarloo
chasing the wind through the gumtrees
and over the mountains to the sea is
essentially the same in symbolic meaning
as a hundred European legends of man
pursuing the unattainable—no different,
basically, from Brennan pursuing Lilith
or Walter de la Mare catching a naiad —
and partly because his Australian land-
scape is so vivid that the whole thing
seems alive.
When Fairbridge tried essentially the
same theme again in another long poem,
“Denial and Riposte,” which took a
second-prize in one of the “S. M. Herald”
competitions, he failed to make his legend
convincing, though there are some
splendid descriptions of the sea. But in
“The Man Who Caught the Wind,”
whether it is the mullet leaping in the
shallows like “squeezed pips,” or the old
aboriginal magician like “a gravelly
creek-bed,” or the deep forest where “a
coachwhip-bird cracked once, and
answered the lash of its echo,” every-
thing (including the anachronisms) is
thoroughly in keeping with the spirit of
the legend, thoroughly Australian in
expression, without being forced; and
the climax, when Ngarloo at last catches
the wind, is not only lovely in its Keats-
like opulence, but quite surprisingly
convincing:
More beautiful
Than any living thing, or his hot dream,
She sleeping lay. Not terrifying
As he had supposed, but infinitely soft.
The opal sheen glowed from her as she
breathed,
And all about her limbs and on the ground
Her hair spread like a web of clematis . . .
“Darwin,” the most mature of Fair-
bridge’s poems, though it is said to be
“unfinished,” is more striking still;
indeed much deeper in its dramatic inten-
sity. It is a sequence of 25 sonnets relat-
ing the significant events of Darwin’s life
—a most original use of the sonnet-
sequence form —and it holds the reader
fascinated, almost appalled, as he watches
that quiet, timid Victorian scientist hug-
ging to his breast for twenty years the
secret of his theory of evolution which
he feared —as indeed, to a degree, it
did—would wreck the foundations of
society:
A barnacle, picked from the Beagle’s hull
In Chonos Archipelago, now lay
Waiting attention. He concedes the claim:
And eight ripe years were yet to find him
full
In pursuit. Though hardly now a day
Without some note, some turning to the
greater aim
For sunken seven parts in private still
He felt the image in his mind complain
Against the dark. Which was not his alone;
But through the world, as in a shipping
lane,
It moved, and many heard the wash and
groan.
He, only, knew its nearness, and its chill.
Here is, in fact, a truly modern narra-
tive-poem ; excellently clear and compact
in the progression of the sonnets ; bril-
liant in its exposition of character; and
elevating the conflict between the scientist
and the quiet citizen in Darwin’s mind
almost to the heroic proportions of Greek
tragedy.
Flying Saucers
D. H. Lawrence once said he liked
relativity- and quantum-theories because
they made him feel that space was alive,
“like a goose” ; and since flying-saucers
also make space alive, and very much
like a goose, Donald H. Menzel’s Flying
Saucers (Putnam) is on a subject of the
greatest sympathy to all. *
Unfortunately, Professor Menzei, who
sits in the chair of astrophysics at Har-
vard, doesn’t believe in the little men
from Venus who are supposed to navigate
these strange aircraft. He says these
gentlemen (moreover, they are not
bearded, as this reviewer in his unen-
lightenment had supposed) originated in
an address which a Mr. Newton, an
American oil-man, delivered at the Uni-
versity of Denver; and he finds that
Mr. Newton has been evasive on the
point of whether or not he ever really
saw the little outsiders (as we may well
call them) who crash-landed on this
planet and were promptly, so he said,
hush-hushed by the U.S. military authori-
ties.
Nor, again, does he believe what would
be the second-most-interesting theory,
that the flying-saucers are a secret-
weapon of the Soviet, He explains the
persistence with which they have hovered
around U.S, atomic areas by the fact
that there are now, as there never were,
before, large numbers of sky-watchers at
these establishments, all eagferly scanning
the heavens for phenomena which pre-
viously would have whizzed by unnoticed.
He doesn’t even believe, in any mys-
tical sense, in the Foo-balls which, espe-
cially towards the end of World War 11,
used to sit on the wings of U.S. aircraft
flying over Japan, or chase the pilots
about the sky. He thinks these were only
“light reflected from a distant source by
a whirlpool of air over one wing of the
plane.”
He thinks that the object resembling
“a luminous ice-cream cone, topped with
red” which Captain Thomas F. Mantel!
of the U.S. Air Force chased over Fort
Knox, Kentucky, on January 7, 1948,
until he crashed to his death, was really
a “sun-dog” or mock sun, such as they
see in the Antarctic. He is quite sure
that the military guards at Los Alamos
in August, 1945, were seeing the planet
Venus showing in daylight when they
got so excited that they almost began to
try to shoot it down ; and his general
theory on saucers is simply that they are
forms of mirage;
The primary objection to any solution
other than that of a manned craft rests in
the reports of an apparent intelligence
behind the saucers’ movements. They seem
to possess an uncanny ability to forecast
each movement of the operator of a plane,
and parry or dodge. Only a shadow, or
an image in a mirror, can do as well. This
gives us a clue. The saucers must in some
way depend on reflection or bending of
light-rays in the earth’s atmosphere—reflec-
tions from fog, mist, raindrops or ice-
crystals, or bending by alternate cold and
warm layers of air The saucers, then,
are only patterns of light, no more sub-
stantial than the square of sunlight falling
on the floor of my study.
All this, no doubt, must be extremely
disappointing, especially to the beardless
little men from Venus ; but at least it is
something to have the subject discussed,
even in so hard-headed, rational (and
somewhat padded) a fashion. And the
professor’s researches into atmospheric
hocus-pocus in general give him an
opportunity to tell the full story of Orson
Welles’s broadcast of the invasion from
Mars and to rope-in spooks and flying-
hardware from many different periods in
history, going back to the prophet
Ezekiel: all stories that are well worth
listening to.
The best of these episodes comes from
a book published by one W. Fulk in
1640, which describes a fiery dragon
flying in the sky and goes on to report
that on the same day “by five o’clock
in the forenoon there was news come to
London that the Devil was seen flying
over the Thames; afterward came word
that he lighted at Stratford, and there
was taken and set in the Stocks, and that
though he would fain have dissembled
the matter by turning himself into the
likeness of a man, yet was he known
well enough by his cloven foot.” And
very likely, too.
Mr. Dewey's Observations
“Written-up from more than 120,000
words of notes dictated into a sound-
recording machine” during his tour
through Japan, Korea, Formosa, Indo-
China, Malaya, Hong Kong, the Philip-
pines and Indonesia (the machine often
failing because of faulty electricity-
supply in various half-civilised places,
including Australia, of which he has
nothing much else to say), Journey to the
Far Pacific (Odhams), by Thomas E.
Dewey, Governor of New York since
1942 and Republican candidate for the
U.S. Presidency, 1944 and 1948, shows
that the Presidency has lost a most
thorough and capable summarist and a
doggedly-urbane smile that nothing can
shake.
Or very little. When, in Malaya, a
local Indian J.P. sent him the front page
of the Singapore “Straits Times” with a
big splash of type and photographs show-
ing police and guardsmen dealing with
a mob that was rioting in a Chicago
suburb because a negro family had rented
a flat there, he took it up with the U.S.
consulate, who were “furious,” and
“advanced the interesting theory that this
kind of journalistic horseplay was the
result of British policy.” The Governor-
General, Sir Franklin Gimson, however,
was “outraged”; he was “positive no
such British policy had ever existed.”
Mr. Dewey then proposed to Commis-
sioner-General Malcolm MacDonald
that he (Dewey) should make a speech
about it. “Make a speech,” said Mr. Mac-
Donald, “and make it in the strongest
language possible.” Mr, Dewey made a
stirring speech.
Apart from this, the book is an urbane
series of essays on the state of the Far
East and the islands late in 1951. Mr.
Dewey has a 300-acre dairyfarm back in
the States, and he loves to talk about
farming; he kept an American private
in a tent in Korea talking so long about
their farms that the General who was
to take Mr. Dewey to lunch sat down
with them to wait for the conversation
to end ; and he considers that the best
thing General MacArthur did was to
“rob the Communists of their most effec-
tive propaganda-weapon in Japan—the
promise of land-reform.”
The Occupation told the landlords to
sell their 5,000,000 acres of land to the
Government, which sold it to the tenants
on a 30-years’ repayment plan ; the yen
fell in 1947, with the lifting of controls
on inflation, from 40 cents to a third of
a cent, and, still paying in yens, the
tenants were able to buy their land in
two or three years—their happy conver-
sations with Mr. Dewey reflected their
satisfaction.
He was shown Hiroshima, which the
Japanese have thoughtfully created into
“a Mecca for lovers of peace”; the
Bomb, he says, killed more than 80,000.
the number they first thought of: “The
best estimate today is that 260,000 were
killed or died of injuries. At least a
quarter of a million more were injured.”
He was amused by the Japanese system
of a flat rate to users of electricity;
householders with connections let their
neighbors tap their lines, for a considera-
tion. The authorities considered that the
installation of meters would be foolishly
costly ; besides, the householders would
instal “jumpers” to by-pass the meters,
and still sell power to neighbors. But
the Dewey who busted organised crime,
and as an ex-District-Attorney breathes
fire at the mere mention of “Trust,” has
less sympathy for Japanese objections
to the Occupation’s destruction of the
big business cartels:
In Japan the cartel was created not to
stifle competition and fix prices but for
efficiency and to save raw materials. Many
businessmen in Japan spoke to me in utter
horror at the idea that new businesses
could be started by anybody with the
gumption to undertake one.
The basic idea of genuine, free competi-
tion in mass-production of goods at the
lowest possible price, which has made
America tower over the rest of the world,
is still little known or accepted in either
Japan or Europe.
In Okinawa, “the base from which our
B-29’s are bombing North Korea,” he
found a hundred-million dollars had
been spent on developing the island, and
a second hundred-million was spending,
partly “to build decent housing for these
thousands of Americans who are manning
our front-lines in the Pacific”:
Out of a population of a half-million,
55,000 Okinawans are working for Uncle
Sam. The military have not moved in and
recklessly thrown American dollars around,
wrecking the .economy of the island. We
are paying the native people at the pre-
vailing rate of wages.... Too many times,
in Asia, all over South America, and in
Europe, other agencies of our Government
have walked in and, either out of a starry-
eyed idealism or a desire to show off, have
paid two or three limes the prevailing rate
of wages. The results have always been
the same: envy and hatred of us at the
time and nothing but enemies and a dis-
rupted economy when we withdrew.
In Formosa he met Chiang Kai-shek
and Madame, the Generalissimo being
in a dreadful rage over the Japanese
Peace Treaty. Formosa, which had previ-
ously carried 5.000,000 people, now
carried 9,000,000 —600,000 troops, and
Chinese merchants, farmers, teachers,
Government employees and refugees,
Mr. Dewey saw the Nationalist Army
training: —-
When we came to the group who were
doing straight athletic work from the
parallel-bars, I noticed that quite a few
lacked the strength to pull themselves up
and over. General Sun quietly remarked;
“They are not getting enough food.”
A more rigorous drill was only
described to him :—-
One man of the first group throws a
live grenade at the second group, one of
whom must throw it back before it
explodes, while the first group takes cover.
General Sun admitted that it was tough,
but added: "We have had very few
casualties, less than one in a thousand_
This kind of training will save thousands of
lives in combat.” Final stages of training
also include taking “enemy-occupied” hills
under both live machine-gun and rifle fire.
I could understand why our MAAG group
were impressed. Their general opinion was
that about 200,000 are well trained and
another 100,000 fairly well trained; the
remaining 300,000 are yet to be trained or
have special assignments.
They told Mr. Dewey of the early
difficulties the refugee-Government and
Army had with Communist spies on
Formosa. They caught their own
Minister for Defence with the two-way
radio on which he talked twice a day tc
the Red Government on the mainland.
He was arrested, and the Nationalist
secret-police continued the conversations,
gradually compiling a list of the col-
laborators on Formosa, and learning
the full details of the plot to take the
island. When the Communists on the
(“Red Page continued on page S 5)


m
rrrSISH
ig
Whether you’re equipping a workshop or a
backyard bench
Consult us first
for all machine tools 9 and buy them on the easiest of terms
Builder, tradesman, Hobbymaker, Homemaker? Whether you're making furniture, home building or
toy making, you need the expertly precisioned tools for which we are famous. You can have these
machines working for you with only a small deposit and , easy weekly terms, at Anthony Horderns’!
m
m
J. FROM
1010
WEEKLY
F. FROM
11'5
WEEKLY
S. Bin. saw bench, rise and fall tilting
table, boring attachment with chuck, rise and fall
boring table, Sin. saw blade, cut. Complete
on heavy duty steel stand, 240 volt motor, £6l/15/'
F. “Tanner” tilting table saw bendfe, 27in. x 20in.
table, lOin. saw blade. Rips to centre of 4ft. sheet
of ply. £64/17/2. Stand, £9/16/11.
B. “L.M.T.D.” 3in. screw cutting lathe, hardened
spindle^front bearing is adjustable tapered bronzed
—back needle roller rack. 6 speeds, £9O, with
counter shaft.
A. “Buscall” ball bearing work head, lOin. saw
capacity drill chuck sin. boring spindle. Ideal
unit for making your own combination saw bench.
Price £9/15/'.
rsi
B. FROM
14'3
WEEKLY
m
A. FROM
s'l
WEEKLY
C. FROM
19'11
WEEKLY
C. “M.8.T.” 10 x 6 combination woodworking
machine, lOin. saw, 3|-in. cut, 6in. buzzer, rebat'
ing iin. Combined on heavy duty stand, com-
plete with tin. H.P. single phase motor, switch,
flex and plug, £ 168/15/-. Accessories extra.
H. FROM
9'5
WEEKLY
H. “Hyco” 12in. ball bearing band saw, s|in. •
thickness cut. Priced at £55/13/9; £ll/3/9
deposit. Heavy duty stand, £6/16/6. Universal
model for wood and metal, £79/9/5.
E. FROM
16'3
WEEKLY
E. “Gregco” 4lin. heavy duty workshop lathe, complete with
counter shaft for electric motor, face plate, centres, change
wheel and guard, £137/15/2. Steel stand, £7/11/11.
D. “Hyoo” junior Sin. saw bench on heavy duty stand, I H.P.
motor, belt boring attachment and 7in. disc sander saw blade.
Priced at £67/12/- and £I4AA deposit.
G. “Hyco” 6in. woodturning lathe, centres, 14in. face
plate depth, £5B/12/-, Sin. R and L. face plates, 58/6; heavy duty
stand, £9/10/-; 24in. tool rest, £6/2/9; motor bracket, £9/10/-.
D. FROM
10'9
WEEKLY
m
-
G. FROM
10'5
WEEKLY
‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
nthony Horderns’
jew
m
TOOL DEPT., LOWER GROUND FLOOR, PITT ST. ’PHONE >12401. MAIL BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY


How It Got Going Overseas
TELEVISION
THROUGH THE BEER-GLASS
By GAVIN CASEY
WHILE the usual droves of people
who always think they know
what we should read, see, hear,
eat, wear and think are having
weighty conferences about it, and Aus-
tralia remains in the outer darkness, it is
interesting to remember how television
got going as a powerful factor in public
entertainment in some other places.
It might have been expected, as hap-
pened, that it would first be viewed in
England through the lorgnettes of the
well-to-do, but in the United States it
got off very much on the other foot, and
was watched with varying degrees of
eagerness through beer-glasses in the
public bars.
In the United States, of course, most
things have to be profitable to be at all,
and when the big-brains had worked out
how to send images through emptiness
they were faced with the problem that
the people on the receiving-end had
nothing with which to catch the pictures,
and that few could afford the apparatus
at its early price.
Their salesmen solved this matter for
them in a manner worthy of the best
tradition of shrewd Yankee trading, and
if somebody had to get it in the neck for
a while it would at least be a good lesson
in self-protection for the victims.
The victims were the saloon-keepers,
a race of men who, in most communities,
can stand a few wallops in the pocket
without becoming destitute, and as far
as I know no bankruptcies resulted. But
the rum-palace potentates did wear long
faces for some time after they had grasped
what originally seemed to them a fine
opportunity to stimulate trade.
What the salesmen did was sell or rent
Joe’s bar a television-receiver which
brought early smiles by attracting cus-
tomers, as promised. The man with the
order-book then moved to Jack’s bar,
along the avenue, and presented the
unanswerable argument that Jack’s place
was dropping trade purely because his
customers were going to Joe’s, to watch
while they swallowed. The wrong could
be righted in next to no time, if Jack
would just sign on the dotted line for a
bigger, better, more modern television-
set than his rival. Jack did, sometimes
immediately, sometimes after a little more
sag in the turnover, but always sooner
or later.
When news of Jack’s business acumen
got around, together with talk about how
much better and bigger the image was
on his set, the fickle drinkers trooped out
of Joe’s and down along the road. After
this Joe often came pleading for a bigger,
fancier set-up than Jack’s, regardless of
cost, and in record time all Americans
except teetotallers had at least a drink-
ing acquaintance with the latest scientific
and entertainment marvel. They were,
of course, being conditioned to covet one
for their own homes.
The stomach-ulcers of Jack and Joe
began to flourish like the green bay-tree,
but by the time both sufferers were
beginning to wonder whether they would
finish up with big television-sets in their
bars or small bars in some corner of their
television-sets they became aware of a
new trouble that had been creeping up on
them. In the beginning bar-customers
had watched eagerly such shows as tele-
vised boxing or night baseball, but had
yelled for the evil thing to be switched
off between sporting sessions, when the
telecasters used the 1925-vintage horse-
operas that were about all Hollywood
would let them have to show. But
improved shows altered that.
The men of spirit-and-slop found, to
their horror, that instead of gulping their
wares with the heavy thirst generated by
watching fights, and the walloping and
pursuit of balls, the Great American
Public was staring loose-jawed and
goggle-eyed at the Frankenstein’s
monster over the bar, and practically
forgetting to drink at all. The moans of
publicans robbed of their prey rang and
echoed around the skyscrapers, and some
sold-up and re-established themselves in
remote villages where television had not
penetrated.
What eventually brought the scale of
nature back into balance was partly the
invasion of the home by television as
prices came down, and partly, probably,
a great thirst that gripped the Yanks
after a couple of years of neglectmg
their drinks, just as it used to take posses-
sion of them during World War II after
long sojourns on islands without any.
The method of getting television going
seemed to suit the American tempera-
ment and economy, though it couldn’l
possibly be done that way here, if for no
other reason than because the pubs close
at 6 p.m. in the centres of greatest popu-
lation.
Even before I left the U.S., some five
years ago, television-sets were showing-
up in private homes, and most of those
who had them displayed quite the oppo-
site characteristics to those of the man
who asked of his optician a prescription
to make his eyes look sore and red, and
when asked what on earth for said “You
don’t think I want the neighbors to know
we haven’t got television, do you?” They
were not only proud, they were fas-
cinated by the thing, and, in the manner
of early radio-listeners, were not much
concerned with the quality of the pro-
gramme as long as they could twiddle
the knobs and talk all the time about the
marvel of its having come from Phila-
delphia or St. Louis or somewhere.
Without wishing to join issue with the
authorities who are trying to set our Aus-
tralian television course for us, what I
saw then suggests to me that the thing
will find its own level.
One complaint against it is that people,
particularly young folk, crouch over their
sets all their spare moments, refusing to
read books, take exercise, or even eat or
sleep except when forced. This isn’t
good, I admit, but my guess is that as
the novelty wears off the watchers will
grow critical. There will be some shows
on which they remain intent, but they
will, according to their individual tastes,
prefer the literature of the day or a brisk
game of football to others. It mightn’t
work that way for very small children,
but, then, even before television, we had
long been in need of firmer and more
competent parents than most of us are.
When I got to Britain I found television
technically better developed than it was
in the States, as I had been told it would
be. ITie mighty and sometimes ponderous
8.8. C. and the then Labor Government
were in no fret to make it yield up divi-
dends for anybody, and the main con-
tact the people had with it was through
reading pseudo-scientific articles about it
in the magazines.
The people were quite patient, while
the whole matter of serving it up to them
was being slowly developed on principles
of gentlemanly conservatism, native
caution and a Socialist objection to mak-
ing another privilege available to the rich
before the much-discussed “everyman’s
set” had been designed and put on the
market so Bill the brewery-driver could
have one too.
I doubt if exactly the British method
is going to suit us any more than the
Yankee one when, eventually, we get
around to doing anything about it except
talk. But it seems certain that our way
will be rather more like that of London
than that of New York. And unless we
finish up letting overseas concerns sell
us all their out-of-date equipment—as
we have done once or twice in the past
in connection with other things—we
should at least be spared the flickering,
eye-teasing, often disappearing images
that used to make half America look as
if it had had no sleep for a week.
As for the dangers of the business to
public health and morals —there are some,
but just being alive is dangerous, and
always was. In the haphazard but not
boring way in which people get along 1
have in rfiy time got off a horse and not
only learned to dodge motor-cars but
also to drive them. At the end of a
period of enjoyment of static I shoved
the radio back into its proper place in
my life, and these days I can listen to
the programmes I select without having
the slightest temptation to go on and on.
I have no doubt that my young will be
able to do as well, or maybe better, with
the things that threaten them.
Phony Works
THE wife met me as I came in
the door, her eyes shining.
“Darling,” she exclaimed
excitedly, even before I had
time to hang the cady up, “I’ve got
the most wonderful news! We’re
going to have”
“Not again !” I cut in despairingly.
“Good Lord, with another mouth to
feed I may as well see about seques-
trating the old estate”
“Don’t be silly,” she replied, laugh-
ing. “It’s the telephone—we’re going
to have it put on! Don’t you re-
member? You applied for it about
seven years ago.”
“So I did! Why, the P.M.G.’s
department must have gone mad. The
last time I heard, about four years
ago, we were still five hundred and
eighty-sixth on the list. Anyway,
when are they going to put it on?”
“Oh, it will take about a week, I
suppose—you know what these Gov-
ernment departments are like. I was
hoping it would be on in a day or so,
but the man thought it would take a
bit longer than that.”
“Oh, someone’s been out? Well,
at least that’s a start.”
“Four of them came in a car, but
only three of them came in—the
other was the driver. They seemed
surprised we hadn’t been notified.
They had a look around, and were
only here for half an hour.”
“Did you tell them where you
wanted it?”
“I started to, but they said I’d
have to see another man about that
later, K was nothing to do with
them. They said they were there to
see the best place for the pipes to
go.” t .
Next day I came home hoping to
see the phone on the small table I’d
had specially delivered that day to
stand it on in the hall, but the wife
reported no further activity on the
phone front.
It wasn’t until the following
Thursday week that the next de-
velopment occurred —a man had
come in a two-ton truck. I remarked
that I had seen no sign of any work
having been started on the footpath.
“Oh,” the wife said, “he just came
to measure how far from the gate
the concrete junction-box would
have to be put. He was only here a
couple of hours.”
“But you said he came in a big
truck?”
“That’s right. I suppose it was to
carry his steel tape-measure. There
was nothing else on it.”
About a week later my hopes rose
when, coming in the gate, I saw that
a concrete box had been dumped on
the lawn. Next morning on the way
to work I passed a red P.M.G. tool-
cart on the footpath further down
the street. There were a couple of
fellows leaning against it reading the
paper, so I asked one of them if he
knew how long it would be before the
cable would be up to my place.
“Couldn’t say, mate,” he replied.
“If you happen to strike the inspector
he might be able to tell you.”
“Yair.”
“Aren’t you chaps on the cables?”
“Well, they dumped a junction-
box in my place yeserday, and I was
wondering if I stood a chance of
getting the phone connected by the
weekend.”
When they stopped laughing one
of them said “You’ll get it on all in
good time, sport. See the inspector
bloke.”
About ten days later five men came
and started digging the shallow,
narrow trench to take the galvanised-
pipes through which the wires were
to run. Within three days, so well
did they work, they almost had it
done, when the weather came over
dull and threatening. They’d only
been fled an hour when it started
raining. Two days after the rain
stopped four inspectors came out and
examined the trench. Apparently it
was still too damp for the others to
work, for it wasn’t until the next
Monday week that they resumed. A
week after they’d finished it two
men came along and dumped several
lengths of pipe alongside the trench,
It took them only half a day.
A union-demarcation dispute
caused a fortnight’s hold-up. One
of the pipes was too long and had
to be cut, and the Plumbers’ Union
objected to one of the mechanics
putting a new thread on the end. But
what a thrill I got when by the end
of the month the wires were up as
far as the junction-box!
Within another week theyd got
the pipes in the trench across to the
house—the department was now
going at breakneck-speed. Then the
great day came when two men came
out in a late-model departmental car
to put the junction-box in the hole,
but they couldn’t go ahead because
no laborer had been supplied to help
them. When he came it was found
there hadn’t been any leather gloves
provided for him, so they all sat
around until three o’clock, when
they went home,
Exactly four months from the time
the quartet had first appeared the
wires were up as far as the house,
and it was only a matter of another
week or so before three inspectors
came to find out where we wanted
the phone put: one to ask, another
to take the measurements and the
third to mark where the hole had to
be drilled through the floor,
The man who brought the table-
set phone in the middle of the fifth
month wasn t allowed by his union
to drill the hole—he gave instructions
that he was to be notified when the
hole-driller had finished. We’d have
probably had it in by the start of
the sixth month if the hole-driller
hadn’t found that his drill was blunt
and it didn’t come back from the
workshop for another fortnight,
Then came the great moment of
the installation, the semi-final check
by four inspectors and a final check
of the inspectors’ work by some more
inspectors.
It was not till then that we were
informed we were indeed lucky to
have got it through a mistake made
by the department. It was originally
intended for a McGoggin in No. 96.
Fortunately for us they mistook us
—McGoogin in No. 69. God help
the McGoggins.
Bo.
AUSTRALIAN PUBS
NEXT to the weather, the average
Australian talks most about
„ am hlinrr an d drinking Of the
C M SS I think
drinking wins by half a length.
r XT b c W flip fhpmp is simolv “To
beer « S' iStSTto vSSa anS
Tasmania the quality of ale is the main
discussion. In South Australia and
Queensland wine is an almost equally
nnnnlar tonic
P The most common theme, however, is
cloTing-time, wSS looms over the Aus-
tralian scene in a more menacing manner
than any political event, or the possi-
-
ject with indifference. Drinking, back in
the home country, was never a universal
problem; but gradually, inevitably, fte
New Australian —provided he wants to
assimilate — an enthusiastic par-
ticipant in this highly important matter.
When he first enters a pub in the heat
of the “six-o’clock rush” his first thought
is: “My heavens, and they talk about
living standards! ”
Then, much to his astonishment, he
discovers that the squalor is permeated
with goodfellowship, friendliness and
consideration, despite the pushing and
elbowing the drinkers are forced to do
to swallow the largest quantity of ale m
the shortest possible time.
Even so, he will never get completely
reconciled to the misery of Australian
pubs.
STEPHEN KELEN


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 29, 1953
Vol. 74—No. 3833
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man**
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
"LABOR'S" LOST CHANCE
The political season is once more open at Canberra.
Aspirants for the casts in the two by-elections of
Corangamite and Lang, to be held on August 29,
throng Poverty Point. Rehearsals have been in progress
for some time for the great Budget grand opera which
will follow about a week later. The practising voice
of Mr. Arthur Calwell, who is to play the bass role
of Old Arsenic, the villain who administers the political
thallium, has from time to time penetrated the walls
of the theatre, accompanied occasionally by an angry
reaction when he happens to spit on a tenor in process
of clearing his throat. But, the main actors being
away except for Sir Arthur Fadden, the proceedings
till now have seemed academic and unreal. Even now
the Opposition parts promise to be more of the nature
of ham acting in the Bland Holt tradition than of the
real thing.
Mr. Calwell as the defender of the big manufac-
turer will not get a hand. His party, as the attacker
of a Government which is removing import-restrictions
and admitting “cheap goods,” can scarcely give a
sound performance in light of the hullabaloo it made
about the impost of the restrictions and the dreadful
consequences which were to ensue —and didn’t —last
yea*. The plea for full employment and the Golden
Age would have to be very impassioned indeed to make
an impression on the public mind directly after an
announcement of the only unemployment being pro-
duced in Australia as due to the sacking of Harbor
Trust employees by Admiral McGrrrrr.
Mr. Calwell has made it clear that the right of
freedom of speech should be denied to those in public
positions unless they agree with himself. He says
that Australians are not used to professors handing out
free advice on the role of free enterprise. Yet his
party has consistently championed the right of Com-
munist traitors, some of them straight from the Com-
munist schools of Europe, to hand out free advice to
Australians with a view to undermining defence and
the Australian system of government. Indeed Mr.
Calwell’s leader appeared in the High Court for the
Communist party to champion its rights of freedom
of action and political expression. But Mr. Calwell,
in his attack on atom-scientist Harry Messel,
has exposed the falsity of “Labor” pretensions to be
the champion of liberty in a way which makes some
of its previous histrionics in favor of the Communists
sound like treason. So freedom of speech as a stock
argument goes by the board.
Foreign affairs do not seem to provide a field for
criticism by “Labor.” Unfortunately the trend of
Government thought at the moment is towards dis-
cussion of world issues with the U.S.S.R., the one great
Power which Dr. Evatt has never sought to antagonise,
and this hamstrings him in the external-affairs field.
And the wool season just passed yielded £404 million,
whilst there is still any amount of work awaiting
employable men. All its best gags threadbare,
all its magic exposed, its objective discarded
by its own leader and its company fighting
like cats behind the scenes, “Labor” approaches the
Budget scene without an argument which is not
refuted by circumstances, or a proposal in which it is
not forestalled by the Government.
It even lacks what the best opera companies need
to make the show a success —a competent claque. It
is perhaps the best compliment that can be paid to the
success of the Government’s policy that Sydney
“Herald’s” jeerings of the previous 18 months
have given way to a more rationaL admission
that “such changes as have occurred in the
political scene” since Messrs. Menzies and Evatt
left for the Coronation “have undoubtedly favored
the Government” ; that “the tide of its unpopularity,
which was flowing so strongly, until early this year, has
ebbed a little furtherand that there is “now real
hope that, given good management and moderate luck,
the Ministry may after all survive the crucial test of
next year’s election.” There is even a generous admis-
sion that the “national economy is seemingly recovered
and prosperous,” though still “precariously poised.”
And the worst it can suggest is that Mr. Menzies’s
homecoming will run true to form and prove unlucky
for him, this speculation delivered with a stern warning
that his Budget has “got to be good.”
The fact is that the Government is in a better
ANOTHER MENACE TO NAVIGATION
position to fight than at any time since 1951. Its own
promises have been kept, except when it has been
frustrated by the effects of wanton “Labor” obstruc-
tion. Its own policy and expedients have given the
anticipated results. The Press is now mainly behind it.
“Labor,” on the other hand, has failed at every point.
It is rent in pieces by the faction fight over union
control, a matter on which agreement is vital to its
policy. Its criticism of the Government has been
completely abortive and wrong in prophecy. Its
panaceas have proved to be reckless. Its leadership
is divided, and even the dogs in Canberra know how
little love is lost between the Evatt and Calwell
factions.
The greatest tragedy which could befall this
country at present would be the addition of an Evatt-
Calwell Government to the deplorable and slatternly
“Labor” groups which are ruining some States utterly
regardless of the principles of democracy and of
solvency. This Mr. Menzies should now have little
trouble in preventing next year if the Government
parties are active and united on main issues. As for
the two imminent by-elections, they will tell the tale
if the organisation is intensive and aggressive.
How Full Is Full Employment?
Back from a trip which must have revived memories
of the time when he was free to flit about the globe
with the assurance and persistence of a migratory bird
—though unhampered by any of the seasonal limita-
tions imposed by Nature on the joumeyings of such
creatures —Dr. Evatt will doubtless have brought home
with him an appetite whetted for victory at next year’s
election, without which he must forgo all dreams of
donning again the habiliments of a World Statesman.
To achieve this, his first task, apart from reconciling
the jarring sects within his party, will be to find a new
policy; the old one is worn out, partly through over-
use, but mainly because it was shoddy material to
begin with.
Ever since Evatt took over the leadership of the
party, ‘Labor” has been fighting by-elections and
State elections on the cry of “full employment.”
For a while it proved successful with the electors,
and the Doc. could hardly be blamed for thinking he
was on a winner. Credit-restrictions and import-cuts
imposed to counteract the decline in our London
balances were followed by a drop in employment
figures. By pre-war standards in Australia, Europe
and America —in fact, by any standards other than
those of the abnormal post-war years that “Labor”
now pretends to regard as the norm —the degree of
unemployment was negligible, and would have been
so regarded by the public had they been allowed to
consider the position calmly.
Even as recently as the Senate campaign the same
story was being peddled. In his policy-speech Evatt
had quite a lot to say on the subject. A specimen:
We enjoyed full employment from 1943 until the
introduction of the first Menzies-Fadden “horror”
Budget of 1951... .Bet me point out what full employ-
ment means. First of all it does not mean the same
things as a “high level of employment.” On the
contrary, a “high level of employment” implies
that there Is always a definite pool or percentage of
unemployed workers. We always had such a pool
in Australia until 1942.
That is the latest statement of Dr. Evatt on what
full employment means to him. A high level of
employment is not enough; he won’t be satisfied with
anything less than satiety ; there must always be “more
vacant jobs than ln asking the
electors to give him a Senate majority, he said that
this would enable “Labor” “to persuade or compel
the Government to adopt the full-employment policies
so clearly laid down in Mr. Chifley’s White Paper in
1945”
This is a trifle strange, because that White Paper
doesn’t seem to have quite the same definition of full
employment as Evatt. It speaks not of “more vacant
jobs than unemployed persons,” but of “a tendency
towards a shortage of men instead of a shortage of
jobs.” This seems to come remarkably close to the
“high-level” line of thought which Evatt deplores.
The authors of tfie 1945 White Paper, as the
Institute of Public Affairs (Victoria) points out in
its latest “Review,” seem to have envisaged something
less than 100 per cent, employment. They said:
This does not, of course, mean that at any par-
ticular time everybody will be at work; Some people
will be away from work because of sickness, some will
be taking a spell between seasonal or periodic employ-
ment, some will be in the process of changing from
one employment to another offering better prospects,
some will take time to acquire new training to equip
them for other employment.
“Labor” was then the Government, and it hoped to
remain in power for a long time. It had to recognise
that 100 per cent, employment was an impossibility.
Similar admissions were made by Governments of
other countries when asked by U.N.E.S.C.O. in 1950
for their definitions of full employment in terms of
unemployment percentages. The Attlee Labor Gov-
ernment gave a figure of about 3 per cent, at the
seasonal peak; the U.S. could give no “definite and
unalterable percentage,” nor could Canada. Belgium
said 3.7 per cent, unemployed would be regarded as
full employment. “But what is important,” says the
“Review,” “is that no democratic nation was prepared
to define ‘full employment’ as a 100 per cent, employ-
ment. It was universally recognised that at any given
time there must be always some members of the
employable population out of work.”
On this widely-held definition we have full
employment, or something closely approximating to
it, at the present time, and we have had it all the time
the Evatts, the Calwells and the Wards have been
screaming depression and unemployment. By Evatt’s
definition we did not have full employment even in
the years for which he claimed it as the fruit of
“Labor” policy.
In the second half of 1952, when Evatt and
company were shrieking unemployment from every
platform, they were at least able to point to rising
figures of unemployment; there was no denying that.
Even though the totals were relatively small the fact
that they were increasing gave strength to “Labor’s”
calamity-crying. But for the first six months of this
year it has been a different story. Month by month
the figures for unemployment have fallen, and the
improvement has not been halted even by the onset
of winter. By now it should be plain even to the
dullest that the “Labor”-predicted unemployment-lake
has not eventuated, just as it should be apparent from
the last four basic-wage adjustments that Calwell’s
prophecies that inflation would gallop away from the
Government was just another Calwellian wish that
was to go unfulfilled.
As an election-winner the unemployment-pool ha?
had its day. The Doc. had better put it away with his
Press-cuttings and luggage-labels and look for some-
thing to take its place.


PLAIN ENGLISH
For Ever Armistice
After three years and a month the fight-
ing in Korea, which broke out on June
25, 1950, ended at 11 p.m. Sydney time
on July 27, the armistice having been
signed 12 hours earlier. The war which
has cost more than a million casualties
goes into cold-storage.
It has taken two years of tortuous
negotiation to reach this point. And it has
not yet brought peace. The, terms provide
for the establishment of a demilitarised
zone between the forces of East and West
about 21 miles wide ; the appointment of
an armistice commission of five senior
officers on each side to supervise the
truce ; a neutral-nations supervisory com-
mission consisting of representatives from
Sweden and Switzerland, Poland and
Czechoslovakia—the latter two about as
neutral as Kim II Sung or Mao —to act at
ports of entry and elsewhere outside the
militarised zone with 20 neutral nations’
inspection-teams, each of four officers of
field grade. There will be a neutral-
nations repatriation commission with an
Indian as chairman to ensure that all
p.-0.-w. have the right to exercise their
option of returning “home” within 60
days of the armistice, all not desiring to
go “home” to be handed over to the
commission within 60 days. These latter
will thereafter be “available to the
explanations of their own sides” during
the next 90 days, and the cases of those
not susceptible to “explanations” will
become the subject of political confer-
ence. If this cannot agree, any prisoners
remaining will be released to civilian
status. There will be another committee
for repatriation with three officers from
each side and a committee for assisting
the return of displaced civilians. Also,
presumably, a committee to co-ordinate
committees.
And last, but not least, the truce terms
provide for a political conference to
negotiate questions of the withdrawal of
foreign forces from the Korean peninsula
and the peaceful settlement of the Korean
question.
Chinese official radio declares that
China reserves the right to “take action
against aggression in self-defence to safe-
guard the armistice if necessary,” and
the South Koreans have decided not to
wreck an armistice for 180 days, and to
withdraw their troops from the battle-
line.
Altogether, an agreement to warm
the heart of the United Nations seems
to have been come to —one that can be
argued about heartily by large numbers
of delegates, commissioners, deputies and
plain officers for a long time (and lucra-
tively).
But there are so many snags that the
armistice may be almost worse and more
nerve-wracking to the world than war.
Korea is still cut in halves. Precautionary
measures will have to be kept up on a
large scale. The basic principles of agree-
ment have not even been touched in the
discussions so far. And all that has been
achieved in the past two years of argu-
ment which has been needed to bring
about a cease-fire has been to bring
China out into the open and by its admis-
sions make clear the falsity of its first
representations that it was “not involved”
and that the Chinese divisions in the line
were formed of volunteers whose burn-
ing indignation drove thetn to fight for
their Korean neighbors.
Dealing with opposite-numbers whose
principles permit this sort of tortuosity,
the political committee has still a long
way to go to achieve any agreement
which will justify the great sacrifice of
life and material which has taken place
in Korea. On the basis of developments
in Germany and Austria during the last
nine years the armistice is going to take
a long, long time, and the horde of com-
missioners and their offsiders can settle
down happily with their families in per-
manence hoping that they will like the
Korean climate.
Sunday Work
The argument usually advanced in sup-
port of penalty rates for Sunday work
on public-transport is that they are paid
to compensate the workers for having to
toil when the majority of the community
are enjoying weekend leisure. The
families of tram-crews and railwaymen,
the argument runs, are deprived of their
company at a time when it is traditional
for families to be together, and the
award of double-time penalty rates is for
the dual purposes of discouraging un-
necessary Sunday work and of compen-
sating those for whom it is unavoidable.
That’s the theory, but let anyone sug-
gest cutting down the number of Sunday
and there’s an immediate howl
from those who will, in consequence,
receive a work-free Sabbath. Obviously
the “compensation” is more highly
valued than the traditional Sabbath for
the loss of which it is paid.
Latest example of this is the reaction
to the N. S. Wales Transport Depart-
ment’s plan to substitute one-man buses
for trams on their Sunday services in
certain suburbs. Apprised of the forth-
coming move by the Commissioner for
Transport, officials of the Tramways
Union didn’t seem at all pleased at the
thought that it would enable a larger
proportion of their members to enjoy a
proper Sunday-at-home. Their spokes-
man said they were “astounded” and
would do everything in their power to
stop the changeover. For one thing it
would mean curtailing essential transport
services to the public, and, secondly, it
would mean “substantial reductions in
the earning of tramwaymen, including
the loss of weekend penalty rates.”
As the union has never shown any
excessive concern for the public, it is
clear that the second reason is the real
grievance—and it is an absolutely fal-
lacious one. if the penalty rates are paid
as compensation for the loss of Sunday
it is a contradiction of terms to speak
of losing penalty rates through having
a free Sunday restored. In effect, what
the union is doing is claiming a right to
work on Sunday in order to receive
extra money. By so doing they are
undermining their whole case for week-
end penalty rates.
C.S.R. Chemicals
The new C.S.R. chemical-factory opened
at Rhodes (near Sydney) last Friday by
Governor-General Slim makes, among
other things, cellulose acetate, which is
the basic raw material to be used by
Courtaulds in their new rayon factory at
Tomagp, near Newcastle. Some of the
acetate, however, will be converted into
plastic moulding-powders. Another pro-
duct of the plant is acetic anhydride,
from which aspirin is made; vitamin
C and acetic acid are also produced.
None of the chemicals made at Rhodes,
with the exception of acetic acid, were
previously turned out in Australia. In the
manufacture of its main products the
only raw materials used by C.S.R.
Chemicals Pty. (apart from industrial
alcohol made from C.S.R. molasses) are
oxygen from the air and cotton or wood-
pulp (to provide the cellulose).
Principal industries to be served by
the chemicals project are textiles, plastics,
food and beverage, pharmaceutical, paint
and lacquer, cosmetics and tobacco.
The Rhodes factory has cost about
million. Many sections of the plant
are electronically controlled —machines
make the necessary calculations and
adjustments for processing. In this way
two men sitting in a room beneath a plant
control, through instruments, its main
operations.
Chemicals play an enormous part in
present-day life. It is a good thing to
see an Australian organisation like the
C.S.R. establishing in the Commonwealth
a type of industry which has been multi-
plying itself in the U.S.A. and elsewhere
over the last quarter-century. We need
a great many more such industries, and
they deserve political and trade-union
encouragement.
Hay to Ouyen—By Road
The old notion of linking Hay (western
Riverina) by rail with Ouyen (Vic.
Mallee) is stirring again, and a Victorian
Parliamentary committee has gone into it
and will put in the usual report. The
main argument is that the link will give
western Riverina practically direct-rail
connection with Adelaide (through Pin-
naroo) and Portland (through Mary-
borough, Ararat and Hamilton).
Portland supports the idea, having for
50 years or so cherished ambitions of
becoming a big port for western Victoria
and south-east South Australia. It is
argued that when the waters from the
Snowy-Murray works begin to pour
over western Riverina, irrigating hun-
dreds of thousands of acres and produc-
ing fat lambs, sheep, wool, fruit, vege-
tables, beef and the rest of it, the rail-link
could give Portland a big superphosphate
factory and export meatworks, as well as
other industries natural to a big and
growing port.
Whether a Melbourne Government
would be happy to help Portland attain
this ambition is another matter. South
Australia’s conversion of its south-east
railways from narrow to broad gauge
and plans to make a port at Robe, prac-
tically in the same district as Portland if
the State border is ignored, are obviously
influenced by thoughts of trade with wes-
tern Victoria. And between Hay and
the Murray, if the link is to tap the
Wakool country, lies a pattern of west-
ward-flowing rivers and creeks which
would entail heavy bridge-construction.
Transport has so changed since the
Hay-Ouyen Railway League was first
formed that it is doubtful if any more
railways should be built other than for
purely defence or suburban purposes.
Prime stock going by train from western
Riverina either to Adelaide or Portland
would have lost much of its bloom when
it got here, constantly-rising rail-freights
are already irritating country people, and
the link would have no worth-while
passenger revenue.
A better idea, and a much cheaper one,
would be to link Ouyen and the Wakool
country with good, wide roads. So far it
has been impossible to convince State
Governments that the most urgent need
of the country is a system of road-rail
links. In north-west Victoria no fewer
than seven railways run parallel with each
other for hundreds of miles, and seldom
more than 30 miles apart; and to get
from, say, Ouyen to Kulwin by rail neces-
sitates a round trip of at least 300 miles,
though the two places are less than 40
miles apart. This sort of thing repeats
itself all along the seven lines. And
where Victorian railways have crossed
the Murray into western Riverina the
thing is repeated on a lesser scale.
Three or four good highways into
Ouyen from the western Riverina would
provide short-haul road-links to connect
at Ouyen and sundry intervening rail-
points with the desired trail services, do
it at much less cost, and open the way to
an overdue development of country
transport which would benefit all hands.
Making a ''Dead Heart 11
i
Upon discovering that some of Sydney’s
big stores intend to open branches in the
suburbs, somebody pointed out that a
very great deal of retail business was
now being done in the suburbs and was
growing. • After which Minister for
Transport Martin forecast that Sydney’s
inner city would become “a dead heart”
if traffic congestion continued.
Whereupon the city’s oldest daily
newspaper nearly had a pink fit. Con-
centrating on traffic and parking aspects,
it said such a point of view was “de-
featist,” demanded to know who “wanted
to see the central city wither,” and
called for the abolition of trams and
construction of express-ways to carry
inter-city traffic through, over or under
the shopping-centres.
All of which misses a few obvious
things. One is that the Harbor Bridge
was built in the wrong place. Little
blame can be put on its builders for that,
because nobody anticipated the sudden
growth of road traffic that followed the
war and the expansion of traffic to and
from northern suburbs to eastern and
southern suburbs. Smaller bridges at, say,
Gladesville and Lane Cove, with express-
ways to them, could have been built for
the same price as the Harbor Bridge (they
may yet have to be built), and the city thus
by-passed by through-traffic. As it is,
with everything on wheels trying to get
over the big bridge and having to get
through the inner city to do it, the thing
will get rapidly worse.
However, an aspect quite separate from
parking is the suburban housewife. To
her shopping in the city, once an enjoy-
able experience, is now a nightmare. Not
only have her home-to-home fares
tripled; she is slugged sixpence to ride
from Park-street to Hunter-street, And
where she could once get a tasty lunch
for 18d. to 25., she must get in a queue
for a mere snack that will cost from 3s.
to ss. 6d.
Is it any wonder that she prefers to
shop nearer home, having discovered
that numerous suburban shopping-centres
can supply most of her wants at a saving
in shop prices, in fares and meals? It’s
not surprising that centres like Hurst-
ville, Rockdale, Kingsford, Bondi Junc-
tion, Crow’s Nest, Chatswood, Parra-
matta, Manly and others now do busi-
ness on a scale undreamed of 10 years
ago.
There are two other aspects. Both
Federal and State Governments are tak-
ing over more and more city buildings ;
and who knows but what in a score of
years or less Sydney won’t be under
atom- or H-bomb attack. Wouldn’t a
“dead heart” full of bureaucrats be a
better target to offer than a live heart
packed with shoppers? A decentralised
Sydney is much more desirable than the
present human antheap.
Forgotten Men
From “Ek Dum”:
A returned soldier from Korea complained the
other day that it was only in Victoria that
anybody recognised that there were Australian
troops in Korea. That statement was a little
unjust—Korean auxiliaries are doing sterling
work in other States, though public opinion
doesn’t seem to have been very deeply seized
of the fact that our soldiers have been dying
and lying wounded, or merely freezing or
fighting the flies and dust along the 38th
Parallel, day and night, for a long time.
There is, however, a band of forgotten men
of whom it could be said that they have been
swallowed up in a fighting front and forgotten
by the public. They are in Malaya and doing
as tough a job as ever fell to the lot of
troops, as members of the Eighth Division,
Second A.1.F., will well appeciate.
They are serving as a group with British
troops against the Communist banditti. A
visitor to them the other day reports that
they are “doing a really good job, but, being
few in number, feel themselves somewhat for-
gotten by people in Australia they com-
plain, inter alia, that they rarely see ah up-
to-date newspaper as newspapers sent by surface
mail arrive when news is completely stale.”
Anybody who cafes occasionally to airmail
current reading-matter will be awarded the
Order of the Dinkum Bloke, First-Class. The
address is The C. 0., Australian Observer Unit,
G.H.Q. Signal Regiment, c/o G.P.0., Singa-
pore, Malaya.
John Darling
“Abdul Assiz”: On July 14 the miners
at Newcastle’s John Darling colliery
resumed work after being idle for nearly
four months. The strike caused a loss
of production of half a million tons of
coal and a wage loss of an average of £3
per working-day for each of over 500
miners. In addition, the enormous loss
to Australian industry, both direct and
indirect, is bound to be reflected in prices
for both coal and steel, and this may
become a permanent tax on Australian
economy.
Coal Industry Tribunal Gallagher’s
summing-up of the evidence, given over
a six weeks’ hearing, is well worth reading
in full. A few excerpts:
In employer-employee relationships, both
parties have their rights, and it is en-
tirely proper there should be available
representatives of the men capable of exer-
cising, and recognised as having, the
function of safeguarding their interests.
An employee should not be prejudiced or
harassed in his employment because of
his activities as a Lodge officer.
And nothing has emerged in this inquiry
from which I would gather this is not the
attitude of the employers.
Accepting this as the general position,
one qualification is necessary. Let a
Lodge officer be forthright in defence of
his men. Concede to him the right to
speak freely and without fear. _ Make
allowances for the traditional militancy
of the industry. But do not attempt to
maintain that a Lodge officer may act in
gross abuse of his rights and at the same
time claim immunity.
In this case Mr. Steers did, in my
opinion, so act. He associated himself
with a plan to keep down production ami
used his position as a Lodge officer as a
means of implementation. His behavior
is without precedent .... -
A case for his reinstatement has not
been established ....
Whether there will be a return to the
position that formerly existed when mine
workers were paid only when they worked,
and when there was no direct payment
for annual leave, sick-leave or statutory
holidays, is largely a matter for the work-
ers themselves. They should not allow
agitators to manoeuvre them into that
position.
In giving Neville Steers back his job
B.H.P. has done the magnanimous thing.
The Powers Conference
The essence of Mr. Menzies’s statement
on foreign affairs on his return from
Europe lay in his statements that ‘ all
are agreed that the fullest possible con-
tact should be established with Soviet
Russia,” and that Winston Churchill has
urged Australia to recognise Communist
China. He said:
We [i.e., the members of the Prime
Ministers' Conference} all felt that the
proposed conference with the United States
and France would achieve the fullest
value if it led to a joint conference with
Moscow.
Everyone who follows events will feel
the same, provided that the meeting is
a conference at which each Power sits
in with an open mind, prepared for
decisions based on reason and argument
and not on the theory that other Powers
shall be the mere followers and echoes
of the United States Government.
The attitude of Washington both in
the Atlantic and the Pacific appears to
be that all agreements shall be based on
American overlordship. America insists
on overall command in every major zone
of Nato defence irrespective of the
experience and qualification of the com-
manders available. In the Pacific it
insists on the continued recognition ot
“Nationalist” China. The maintenance
of this position has not the slightest
association with reality. Chiang Kai-shek
has no chance whatever of regaining
control of China, irrespective of what
happens to Communism.
America subscribes to the theory or
trustee-control of conquered colonial
(Continued on next page )


BE UP-TO-DATE
ON CURRENT
international
AFFAIRS
/
•Nluii
Times wer e—before KEESING’S —when you had
to potter about with scissors and paste, making
shift with your skimpy scrapbook, or wade
through dusty piles of faded newspapers in
tedious quest of buried data.
TO-DAY you just join KEESING’S and at a
moderate subscription you receive every week
by post the essential abstracts, expertly con-
densed, verified, and translated from the world’s
leading newspapers, agency reports, and official
documents; neatly recorded and clearly printed
in loose-leaf supplements which slip into the
special binder to form
KEESING’S
* the modern Reference Tool on present-day
developments: authentic, concise, and provided
with a finger-tip Indexing System which is
always ready to give you the full Facts on
Politics, Economics, Social Questions on a truly
global scale.
' Published by
KEESING’S PUBLICATIONS LTD.
OF BRISTOL. ENGLAND
PLEASE ASK FOR FULL PARTICULARS NOW
\ “ “
Australian Representatives
JOHN GILMOUK & SONS
• (Contact Mr. J. Gilmour at Office 1, Floor 10,
Challis House, 10 Martin Place) SYDNEY. 8L1133.
J Please supply free details of KEESINO’S service.
{ Name
I Address B 1
territories —but only those territories
which the U.S. does not itself wish to
control, free of U.N.O. supervision, such
islands as the Ryukus and the Marshalls.
And Washington further insists that in
Pacific defence arrangements nobody shall
be admitted to Anzus except at its dicta-
tion. Mr. Menzies declares that he
“understands and sympathises with the
desire of Britain to -be associated in
Anzus, but if the U.S.A., for reasons
which are now pretty well known, is not
willing to extend membership there is
nothing Australia and New Zealand can
do about it short of breaking up the
treaty.”
But no defence pact can be discussed
in the Pacific without confidential arrange-
ments with Britain and S. Africa, India
and Pakistan, Ceylon and Malaya, which
lie athwart our routes to Europe and the
Far East. No discussion of long-term
trade, defence or diplomatic agreement
can be made without recognition of the
reality of Communist China’s power and
authority over hundreds of millions of
people and without taking Japan into
council, since nothing is going to prevent
Japan putting its islands into a state of
defence within the next decade, and its
commercial potential is obvious.
The test of Anzus is that in Britain
it is interpreted as a breakaway, in enemy
countries the same, and in large anti-
British sections of the U.S. Press it is
regarded as another step in the breaking-
up of the British Commonwealth. In
Asia not only Russian but American
propagandists are using it as an illustra-
tion of the gradual world conquest by
the Americans and of the decline of
British power and influence.
POLITICAL POINTS
If the truce lasts as long as it took to
negotiate we’re in for quite a spell of
peace.
9 9
The Coronation trippers are trickling
back. Menzies and Evatt hit opposite
ends of Australia within 24 hours of each
other, and Playford reached Adelaide
with his “atomic-energy-by-1960” at
about the same time. Cahill, Cain, Gair,
Cosgrove and Hawke are still missing,
along with most of their Opposition-
leaders.
9 9
By unanimous decision of the Arbitra-
tion Court the executive of the Amal-
gamated Engineering Union was ordered
on Friday to supply to
t h e Commonwealth
Electoral Department
the information it
sought for the purposes
of conducting a secret
ballot to fill vacancies
on the union’s Com-
monwealth Council.
Penalties for non-com-
pliance with a court
order are considerable
—£2oo fine or 12
months’ jail,
9 9
August 29 has been
fixed by the Speaker as
the date for the Cor-
angamite (Vic.) and
Lang (N.S.W.) by-elec-
t i o n s. Nominations
close on August 7.
9 9
There are 16 starters
in the preselection ballot
for the “Labor” nomi-
nation for Lang. The
field includes three
schoolteachers and five
clerks —but no publi-
cans.
9 9
Calwell’s crocodile-
tears over the plight
of bank officers and his
comment that “it does
not pay people to acquire educa-
tion for a profession or technical
skill when there is no reward in sight
for its study and cost” are ironically
amusing. Calwell’s party, by years of
kotowing to the least-skilled and least-
educated sections of the community, is
largely responsible for this state of
affairs. And, for that matter, politics is
probably one of the most remunerative
occupations open to the man without
professional or technical training—pro-
vided he is a good party man,
• •
A bunch of disgruntled British
migrants, going back by ship, loudly told
reporters in Adelaide that when they
got home they’d warn everybody against
coming to Australia. Although this was
published in sundry dailies, only one
saw fit to report that at least one family
on the boat had done so well that it was
off for a holiday “in an effort to convince
our son-in-law and his wife to come
out here.”
• •
Liquor reform but no change in hours
is Victorian “Labor” policy, announces
Acting-Premier Galvin. Yet the six-
o’clock swill is the major evil; most of
the other abuses stem from it,
• •
It’s said that at the all-Australia Trades
Union Congress in September “sound in-
centive schemes” will be a main topic,
with a resolution favoring “controlled in-
centives” as the one which will force a
“showdown.” Biggest union of them all
is the A;W.U., which is fundamentally a
shearers’ union. Anyone trying to con-
trol a shearer’s pace has the job in front
of him.
9 9
Egypt has issued a long list of goods
which her nationals may not supply to
British troops in the Canal Zone. Feelthy
postcards are not included.
9 9
Acting-Premier Galvin says the Vic-
torian Government won’t decontrol
potatoes in order to keep them in Vic-
toria, so the conclusion can be drawn
that the purpose of a Potato Board is to
be a No-Potato Board. If this is the
goal it is likely to be achieved very
shortly. The Spud Board secretary says
that Sydney is paying up to £56 a ton for
THE HOPE OF THE SIDE
Victorian murphies and, unless something
is done, Victorian hospitals and institu-
tions will be spudless within a fortnight.
• •
Australian casualties in Korea up to
the end of June were: killed, 253;
wounded, 1018 ; prisoners, 12; missing,
49. Total, 1332.
o •
Without any ifs, buts or perhapses,
Tom Play ford has announced that South
Australia will have an atomic-powerhouse
by 1960. He told the S.A. Assembly
that the two power-stations now being
built at Port Augusta would be the last
to be operated on coal. Such a state-
ment, if uttered by some Australian
Premiers, would produce cynical laughs,
but Playford’s prophecies have a habit of
coming true.
• •
Last Friday a Sydney paper came out
with a large picture headed “Work
Starts Again on Quay Railway.” The
picture showed piles of gear. There were
two men in it. Both were sitting down.
• - •
Two World Wars arid the Communist
submersion of Eastern Europe have
brought so many changes to the map of
Europe that most atlases published since
1914 have been out-of-date before their
first edition has been sold out. People
living in some towns in Central Europe
have seen the name of their home towns
changed three or four times in their life-
time. Latest renamings are reported from
East Germany; Chemnitz, in Saxony,
the third-largest city in East Germany,
has become Karl Marxstadt; Fursten-
berg, on the Oder, is now Stalinstadt.
Query—On the nose?
• •
Latest Gallup-poll figures out last week
claimed that in a Federal election “Labor”
would receive the highest percentage of
votes. But that was before the Doc. came
home.
• •
Fixer Ashley seems to live nowadays
in a world dark with threats and sus-
picions. It isn’t long since he discovered
that our northern coasts were wide-open
to invasion. Then he became worried
over millions allegedly misspent on pre-
fabs and mining-machinery. Emerging
from hi§ gloom for a moment he under-
took to restore the Sydney G.P.O. tower
at one-quarter of the departmental
estimate of the cost. He apparently hasn’t
started on the job yet, but last week
his attention was distracted by dark
‘thoughts about the B.M.A. He had a
feeling that “the Government would like
to create a monopoly” in the medical-
benefits field, he suspected that the
B.M.A. was behind the Medical Benefits
Fund, and he found it conceivable that
it could squeeze out all opposition by
refusing to provide services to any fund
but its own.
8.M.A.-control of the Medical Benefits
Fund was promptly denied by the
manager of toe fund, the president of
the B.M.A. and Minister for Health Earle
Page. The last-named commented that,
while political “Labor” seemed to be
doing its best to prevent the success of
the Commonwealth health scheme, indus-
trial Labor was using the facilities of
the scheme to the best advantage of their
members. Seven of the 18 approved
societies in N. S. Wales were industrial
organisations, 9 were friendly societies,
The other two were the Medical Benefits
Fund and the Commonwealth Bank
Health Society.
The Fixer’s whole ease seems to he
~ v\ e Fixers Whole case seems to be
thal doctors are m a majority ort the board
of the and he doesn t trust
doc or . 00
Outspoken comment by the Australian
External Affairs Department on the
Korea situation: in its latest “Current
Notes” it printed a chapter on “Develop-
ments in the Korean Armistice Negotia-
tions” upside-down.
• •
In the course of an abusive attack on
atom-scientist Messel, Arthur Calwell
said “Business is for the businessman.
Professors should stay in their own
domain.” It is too much to hope that
the first part of this statement mean#
that Arthur has given up his dream of at
Socialist State; as to the second, the
professor is probably too polite to suggest
that Calwell should stay on his own
Yarra-bank.
• •
Victorian insurance-companies expect
to lose £200,000 on third-party insur-
ance for the year ended June 30
last. But Deputy-Premier Galvin won’t
let them be represented at a conference
of State officials on third-party insurance
rates. If the companies choose to refuse
to accept this form of business there'll
be another rush of Premiers to Canberra
yelping for help.
• • •
A Moscow music magazine reports
that two original manuscripts of music
by Beethoven have been discovered in
the Soviet Union. This is no doubt a
prelude to the announcement that Ludwig
was really a Russian.
• •
Queenslanders got another of those
shocks they’ve been getting so frequently
from the Gair Government. Rail fares
and freights are to go up by up to 10
and 25 p.c. respectively from next
Saturday. The Government said the rises
were “forced” on it by increases in award
adjustments and basic-wage rises. The
Government has never opposed either.
• •
Victorian Acting-Premier Galvin,
asked by Melbourne University for an
extra £150,000 grant this year, warned
the Uni. against “pressure-group tactics.”
That sort of warning is safe when issued
to a Uni. It’ll be news when Galvin or
one of his kind tries it on a trade-union
pressure-group.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Narumee”: An announcement from
the Postal Dept, says that tenpenny air-
, letters will, in future, be dignified by
the name of “aerogrammes.” Wouldn’t
“airgram” have been neater and more
concise? Are we to expect further
Frenchifications such as “cablegrammes,”
“teleogrammes,” and “radiogrammes”?
Or is the P.M.G. making a gesture to
the new Elizabethan age by introducing
the “ye olde teashoppe” type of English?
If so, the transport people might well
follow the example. After all, we
have “ye olde trammes”!
* ❖ *
“Becks”: In his account of the con-
quest of Everest Tensing relates how,
when he and Hillary reached the summit,
he, as a good Buddhist, left there his
offerings to God—biscuits, candy and
a blue pencil, the last item on behalf of
his little daughter. “She asked me to
put it on top of the mountain as her
offering. It was an ordinary blue pencil,
not even a long one, but it was one of
her prized possessions.” There is some-
thing peculiarly touching in the thought
of that stump of pencil lying in the snow
on the world’s roof-top, higher than any
gift to the gods has ever been left be-
fore. Tensing’s own gifts of biscuits
and candy are in the traditional line of
votive offerings, but only a child could
think of offering a pencil. One can
almost imagine a beneficent Deity using
it to inscribe the little girl’s name in
the Golden Book.
❖
“Lord Luvus”: Linguistic difficulties
of the Australian melting-pot? In a hard-
ware shop run by a New Australian in a
Melbourne suburb a customer asked for
tinned cherries. “Pardon, we have only
enamelled ones, madam,” replied the
shopman.
❖ * ❖
“Uramao”: In New Zealand, despite
the lapse of 40 years since the passing of
the Barmaids’ Registration Act, 1912,
female manipulators of the beer-pump
have not yet followed the moa into
oblivion. Under the Act no female was
to be allowed to operate the machinery
behind a bar after June 1, 1913, other
than the 1518 then registered. Today
there are 11 Hebes who have preserved
their charms and arm-muscles against
the tooth of time. Seven of them dispense
cheer in Wellington, two in Auckland;
Christchurch and Dunedin have to be
content with one each of the vanishing
race.
❖ ❖ ❖
“A.L.D.”: It is an undoubted fact
that there are more books published on
cricket than on football (B. l/7/’53), but
Keith Miller and R. S. Whitington go too
far in their book Bumper when they
claim that cricket has attracted a class
of writer of far higher literary attain-
ment than has any other sport, with the
possible exception of boxing. First place
is surely held by fishing—trout-fishing
alone has inspired a remarkable array of
able writers, not a few of whom have
won fame in other branches of litera-
ture. Foxhunting also ranks very
high. From the days of Peter Beck-
ford and Surtees to the present it
has inspired fine writing. Mountain-
eering has an impressive literature ;
so have yachting and small-boat
cruising. Besides these sports, the
turf would probably rank higher
than cricket.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Curate’s Egg”: At unit reunions
over a succession of years talk has
always turned to what happened to
“Honest Tom,” our mob’s shrewd-
head, who always managed to
wangle himself into the position of
promoter of every swy game,
crown-and-anchor, pontoon or other
lurk in which there was a quid to
be picked up. Throughout his Army
career he successfully concealed his
Civvy-street background; most
guesses placed him as an urger of
some kind. He was a good action-
soldier and an equally good man
with his fists, and, on the whole,
very popular, since he never
welshed on a debt and was generally
good for a loan. He got drunk
regularly when on leave, sometimes
fought with provosts and was a
source of worry to officers and non-
coms because of his shrewd
knowledge of regulations. In short,
he fitted perfectly the guesswork
role of a spieler we assigned to him. But
there’ll be no more speculation at next
year’s reunion. Last week in an up-
country hamlet I came across “Honest
Tom” himself, and he promised to attend
next year’s “do.” He reckoned that it
would be better if his own lips made the
shameful confession that on Civvy-street
he is the perfectly respectable, abstemi-
ous and peaceful head-teacher of a cow-
country State school.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Spasebo”: Japanese distillers will
shortly launch upon world drinkers
a “new kind of sincere and genuine
whisky” made from corn and fermented
with yeast with which soy sauce and
chrysanthemum petals will be blended.
With it goes the personal guarantee of
the makers that it will be just as good
as Scotch and much cheaper. The comp,
who set up the cable for the Melbourne
“Herald” may have been a whisky-
“What you need , David , is a pump.”
drinker; at any rate his hand apparently
trembled when setting the final sentence
of the cable. It read “No man has yet
been selected for the new blend.” Pre-
sumably this refers to the person who is
prepared to commit kamikaze and be the
first to taste it.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Pronto”: What is a “balancer”? In
the rules of the V.A.T.C., displayed at
Caulfield, certain undesirables are warned
off the course, e.g., pickpockets, urgers,
convicted thieves, prostitutes and
balancers. This being a new one on me,
I went along to the police office in the
Guineas, but no one there could en-
lighten me; the term was unknown. At
the V.A.T.C. office I also drew a blank
till I struck the oldest member of the
staff. He explained that it meant a
punter who was betting on the nod,
owed a bookie, say, £250, went to him
with £2OO and said “You can settle for
this —or else.”
“Pawang”; In 1943 the Waltdr and
Eliza Hall in Melbourne was urgently
“I've HAD these nuclear-fission experiments—too much washing-up!"
working on a serum for scrub-typhus,
when one of the principal bacteriologists,
Miss Dora Lush, M.Sc., scratched her
finger with a syringe and died in a few
days. Her last-expressed wish was that
her colleagues would use her to observe
the progress of the disease while she was
dying. Not of the same degree of hero-
ism, but of the same order, is the offer
of 71 abattoirs workers at Bendigo to
act as human guinea-pigs to help the
Health Department in its fight against
brucellosis —a disease which attacks
cattle and pigs and which can be con-
tracted by slaughtermen and meat-
handlers. According to the health officer,
the men injected have shown great forti-
tude as many of them suffered from
severe swellings and discomfort.
❖ ❖ *t* .
“Kelvin”: Mostly unknown to the
general public and possibly to quite a few
of the academy’s own graduates is the
marine background to the Royal Military
College at Duntroon. Possibly the
R.M.C. would not have occupied its pre-
sent site in the historic Molbnglo basin
but for the disastrous 1806 flood on the
Hawkesbury. As a relief measure for
the distress among the Hawkesbury
settlers, Governor King commissioned
the Sydney, a freighter owned by one
Robert Campbell, for a voyage to Cal-
cutta to load rice. On the outward
voyage the Sydney was lost in Bass
Straits, and Campbell claimed compen-
sation from the Government. The
Colonial Office was longwinded in com-
ing to terms, but nearly 20 years after
wards, in 1825, Governor Brisbane in
formed Campbell that the Crown wanin'
settle for £4OOO, half in cash and hall m
land and cattle. In the district then
known as Limestone Plains, Campbell
selected an area which he called Dun-
troon, after Duntroon Castle in Scot-
land. On it he built in solid stone and
lined with cedar the homestead which
in 1911 became the officers’ mess of the
Royal Military College.
❖ ❖ *
“Dick Turpin”: Bank ledgers are not
always the dull tomes they look. I
have thumbed through the first ledger
of the Maitland branch of the Bank of
New South Wales, which celebrates its
centenary this year. The gold-rush out
west was at its height when the branch
began business, and against many of the
names in the ledger is written “Gone to
the diggings.” Reference to the appro-
priate folios shows that the fortune-
hunters invariably drew every bean from
their accounts, and no doubt the old
entries cover many a story of loss and
heartbreak. Another frequent note beside
depositors’ names is “Can’t write.”
Apparently in those days lack of educa-
tion was no bar to financial success;
many of the can’t-writers regularly
deposited sums that make the mouth
water even in these days of inflation.
❖ ❖ *
“The Phcenix”: Haven’t heard
“Becks’s” doggie-in-the-window song
yet, and until I do I shall nominate as
the worst song of the century the “Rudolph
Valentino Memorial Song,” a lugubrious
dirge sung to an accompaniment of organ
and bells. I can remember only the first
two lines:
There’s a noo star in Heaven tonight, (
There’s a voice singing “Lead kindly light.’
When it was first “released” Valentino
fans wept buckets of tears over it.
* * *
“Ceg”: Recruiting by poster in the
days of Queen Victoria (from Thomas
Gilby’s book Britain at Arms):
“Now then. Think of all the advantages
that will be yours by joining in. You
will be mounted on the finest horses in
the world, with superb clothing and the
richest accoutrements; your privileges
are equal to two guineas a week; you
are everywhere respected; your society
is courted; you are admired by the fair,
which, together with the chance of get-
ting switched to a buxom widow or
brushing with a rich heiress renders the
situation truly envious and desirable.
The regiment to which the poster referred
was the Queen’s Bays. To attract men
to the Marines, in 1812, the following
lure was held out. “The daily allowance
of a Marine, when embarked, is one
pound of beef or pork, one pound of
bread, flour, raisins, butter, cheese, oat-
meal, tea, sugar, and a pint of the best
wine or half a pint of the best rum or
brandy.” If the present Government
decides to issue grog to national-service
trainees on the same liberal scale, I can
imagine the Defence estimates of £2OO
million proving inadequate, to say
nothing of the squeal which would go
up from the wowsers. And a pound of
pork! Lor’ lumme —a pound of bacon
costs 6s. 6d.
ON THE OLD STAND
“Passengers on six ‘standee-buses’ introduced
on the King’s Cross-Erskine-street route,
Sydney, complained that they felt ‘cramped and
uncomfortable.’ ”
What are people in this mood for ?
Why annoy us with their cusses?
“Labor” always proudly stood for
Standee buses.
No one’s urged to stand or trample —
We don’t put the case in that form,
But standing, by our own example.
Upon our Platform.
On short trips, says today’s transporter.
Standing-room should suit the masses —
Nazis made trips even shorter
By use of gases.
Unions, of course, denounce with feeling,
As labor-saving, such contrivances;
Still, what a surefire way of dealing
With standing-grievances !
However, if you want no part in
Standee buses, don’t give in, Sor —
Ring up Transport Minister Martin,
Or Pen-friend Winsor;
And if neither one supplies you
With his departmental motor,
He will at the least advise you
Where to go ter.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Curtain Raiser”: Blue-pencilling of
Shakspeare seems to have gone out of
fashion, and as far as I could gather it
is an unexpurgated “Othello” which
Anthony Quayle is presenting at Her
Majesty’s in Melbourne. It was not so
years ago when Beresford Fowler staged
the play as Shakspeare wrote it and was
regarded as a dangerous innovator. All
went well, however, except on one night
when an understudy took the Moor’s
part and in an acute state of nervousness
fell at the first hurdle by bellowing at
Desdemona: “I cry you mercy, I took
you for that cunning whore —I beg your
pardon—that cunning one of Venice, who
married with Othello!”
♦♦♦ *t* *■
“Melb’n”: Altson’s Corner, in Collins-
street, the south-east limit of the once-
celebrated Block, is up for auction. It
brought £32 at Melbourne’s first land-
sale, but the chap who bought it
failed to fulfil the obligation of
erecting on it a £5O building, so it
reverted to the Government. The
original Altson started selling
tobacco and snuff there in 1853,
and it has been in the family ever
since. Its original value of a farth-
ing a square foot has multiplied
48,000 times—or so a mathematical
youngster told me.
%
“Elrob”: After giving up a per-
fectly good golf day to take his
small daughter to a “wild-life”
sanctuary, John relaxed peacefully
in the horse-drag which took them
from the sanctuary to the tram-
terminus. The jolting of the drag
was very soothing, and he serenely
lifted one eyelid to watch how little
Jill was behaving. There she was,
the angel, clutching in her arms her
huge toy koala. He closed his eyes
again with the thought of how
natural they made the darn things
nowadays. He opened them again.
Great Scott! The “darned thing”
had blinked at him. He shut his
eyes very tight. “That’s what comes
of it,” he muttered. “I’m going mad.
I take small daughter to an animal
sanctuary—l ride on donkeys and
merry-go-rounds, I ride on camels, I
watch little horses going round and round
small tracks and I go mad. I see things.”
Cautiously he opened one eye, and to his
horror the bear’s claw slowly opened on
his beautiful daughter’s neck. “Jill, Jill,
Jill,” he gasped, “that —that —that —
bear!” Jill, with all the aplomb in the
world, assured her bewildered daddy that
it was quite all right—she’d taken this
one and left her toy bear on the fork of
a tree where she was photographed hold-
ing the real bear. A bewildered father
stopped the drag and had quite a time
explaining to the driver what had
happened.
& ♦> *X*
“Lemuel G.”: Whether or no Lord
Lovat was the last man to be beheaded
in England (B. 15/7/’53), he made as
W %MI£F
“SiDBl-aOv
“ It's my most daring creation —the all-weather hat.”
noble an end as any man could wish.
Sentenced for his part in the rising of
’45, he was imprisoned in Newgate pend-
ing execution, and spent the greater part
of his last night in conversation with
his friends. In the morning, according
to the Newgate Calendar, he called for
a “dish of minced veal, of which he
was very fond, and ate heartily.” The
governor of the jail called to summon
him to execution, he and Lovat taking
a glass of wine together before they
started out. On the way to the scaffold
Lovat paused at the houses of several
friends, taking a farewell glass with each
and exchanging the appropriate senti-
ments in the manner of the time. He
maintained a remarkable composure on
the scaffold, even giving the headsman a
handsome tip before laying his head on
the block.
* * ❖
“Findy”: Storms which did consider-
able damage along Adelaide’s beach-
fronts last month uncovered, according to
“Have you got my scissors, doctor?”
the “Advertiser,” “a 500 yd. six-foot stone
seawall between Semaphore and Largs,
built about 50 years ago.” For years
it had been covered with sand. I don't
know how long ago that wall was built,
but I remember it as a child. Other
landmarks of that period which have not
survived were the bathing-notices, painted
on wooden posts erected on the Sema-
phore beach. The Civic Fathers apparently
didn’t approve of mixed bathing. On
the northern side of the jetty, placed
about 100yds. apart, were two notices
“Men only may bathe between these
posts.” The next two posts, a similar
distance apart, proclaimed “Bathing for-
bidden between these two posts.” Then
came another pair, inscribed “Women
only may bathe between these two posts.’
By the time I was old enough to read
the notices they had ceased to have any
force, but they still stood there as a
reminder to swimmers to keep their mind
on their swimming.
“J.F.”: No doubt “Sackville” is right
(B. 15/7/’53) about the origins of “The
Dying Stockman” and “Click Go the
Shears, Boys,” but it is a pity he spoilt
a good par. by misquoting Kipling. In
my copy—stolen from me many years
ago—the lines used to run:
When ’Omer smote ’is bloomin’ lyre,
He’d ’card men sing, by land and sea;
And what he thought ’e might require
’E went an’ took —the same as me!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jurumudi”: The controversial ques-
tion as to whether competitors on the
cultural side of the Olympic Games com-
petitions should be amateurs or pro-
fessionals has again been raised by the
controlling body, some officials holding
that entrants should not be bound by the
amateur definition as are the athletes;
others hold that if competitors have
previously sold their work they are pro-
fessionals and should be debarred. The
latter view • would exclude Norman
Lindsay, William Dobell, Russell Drys-
dale, William Dargie, Albert Namatjira,
composer Alfred Hill —in fact, every
artist, sculptor, architect, poet and
musician in Australia—and leave the
field open only to students who haven’t
yet sold a picture or a poem and the
anonymous amateurs who scribble and
draw on 'lavatory walls. The question
will come up next year for decision, but
Mr. Avery Brundage has evidently seen
the ridiculousness of the situation and
has advised technical director, E. J. Holt,
that any change in the rules will not
operate for the 1956 Games.
*x* +x* *x*
“Muskeen”: Most probable reason
why “An Chaidh” (B. 15/7/’53) cannot
find a Gaelic equivalent of the surname
Hay is that the family itself is not Gaelic.
The founder of the family, which in-
cludes the Earldoms of Errol and Kin-
noul, was William de Haya, who
obtained a grant of land from William -
the Lion, whose butler he was.
* * ❖
“Cayenne”: In Greece in 1941 we
came upon a convoy of motor-vehicles
which had just copped a plastering from
Jerry’s Stukas. Convoy personnel were
all clear when one dimwit discovered he
had left his “cape anti-gas” in a burning
truck. “Here, take mine, if you want
one so bad,” sang out one of his mates.
“Like Hell! Your blanky thing won’t
fit me,” he retorted and dived back to
the truck to retrieve his property. It
appears he was a tailor in Civvy-street
and had altered the cape to fit his own
requirements. He got back into the
ditch just as the truck exploded. Then
he discovered he’d picked up the wrong
cape after all. “Cripes,” he moaned,
“a bloke can’t take a trick.”
* ❖ *
“Villefair”: He was immaculately
dressed ; only a feminine eye could have
detected the flaw. The flapper’s whisper
to her companion, the covert glance, and
the smothered titters drew my attention
to the unwitting poor chap’s ankles —they
were clothed in odd socks. “One fawn
and one green!” softly gurgled one of
the damsels. “He must be color-blind.”
I could have* told her that it was not
necessarily so. There, but for an obser-
vant —and despairing—wife, once went I.
Doubling-up ,on the socks is a pretty
effective way to prevent the agonies of
perishing feet, but absentminded blokes
should always put one pair on, then the
other; putting two socks on the left foot
then two on the right might please an
efficiency expert, but it’s very, very easy
to reverse the order of priority when
socking the second foot.
*
“Qui”: Few are left now of the State-
school inspectors who took pride in the
burr they brought with them from the
Old Dart. When I sat for my pupil-
teacher’s exam, in the long ago one of
them floored me in the dictation test
with his Scotch pronunciations. In 1908
I was teaching at Hamilton (N.S.W.) and
twice within a year my boys received a
visit from Inspector O’Flaherty. He
showed the class how to add by 9’s.
“Nine is a robber,” he said; “he steals
one each time from the units’ column.”
Just before he came on his second visit
I thought it expedient to remind the lads
of this helpful hint. “What did the
inspector call nine?” I asked. “Noine,”
answered one of my bright lads, “and
he called one wan.”
❖ <*
“Craiser”: Architectural survivals (B.
15/7/’53)? There is one in the Regent
Theatre, Melbourne, in the old-style boxes
built up against the proscenium at an
angle of about 15 degrees to the screen.
They are survivals of the old-time opera-
house boxes which were the most coveted
positions in the theatre, but they only
survive as decorations. When an usherette
could not find me a seat on one occasipn
I pointed out that the boxes were all
empty. “You can’t get into them,” she
said, “and if you could you wouldn’t be
able to see the screen.”
* ❖
“Swelpme”: As his customary pay-
night special, & pal bought two-shillings’-
worth of coatdd caramels to take home
to his offspring. Outside the chain-store
he sneaked one for himself. It wasn’t
a caramel, the centre was jelly. He tried
another; it was the same. Knowing
that nothing could replace caramels in
his nippers’ esteem, he went back, pointed
out the mistake, and suggested that the
sweets be changed. The shopgirl declared
she couldn’t understand it; she’d given
him caramels from the right case. She
broke one to prove her point. It was
a caramel. He broke one from the bag
to prove his. It also was a caramel. He
broke another. Ditto. With his ears
burning, he slunk out. What a nasty
nature the Goddess of Chance must have!
The rest of the bagful were jelly-centres.
NOT UP TO SCRATCH
“Garth pondered wistfully,on the Robyn he
had known before he mamed her. He ha
thought then how wonderfully apt had been
her name—her movements were so quick and
birdlike, and she so dainty, so tender. But she
had changed.” —Short story.
This fatuous lover
In Robyn, his “fairy,”
Was pleased to discover
Some avian ways :
Her eyes rather beady.
Legs a la canary,
Her look always seedy —
Such things he could praise.
At first she had tarried
(She was somewhat flighty);
At last, though, she married
Him, just for a lark.
But soon was impending
A conjugal blight. He f <
To chirpings unending
Perforce had to hark.
And week out and week in
With never a let-up
She would poke her beak in
To everyone’s biz-
She so aggravated
Her mate with this set-up
That shortly he hated
The sight of her phiz.
She took, too, to “hopping”
With some bird or other;
It bored her, just stopping
Back there in their nest.
He chipped her; she flew at
Him then — ah, well, brother.
That’s life that some view at
Short range. For the rest.
Increased was the screeching
His ear she’d project at.
What did set him teaching
A lesson was this :
Fine feathers she longed for ;
His pocket she pecked at.
That’s what she was donged for.
Well, was it amiss ?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Sixty-five years back an Irishman
named Dillon made a stormy tour of
Australia enlisting support for Eire’s
Home Rule movement. The other day
his son. Professor Myles Dillon, landed
in Melbourne on a much less contro-
versial mission. A world-famed linguist
and an authority on-Celtic, he is here
to teach in the Irish section the Celtic
Club is inaugurating at Melbourne Uni-
versity. He also hopes to get a slant on
the Australian accent, and on his way
home will step off at Alice Springs to
study abo. lingoes, which are particu-
larly interesting to a linguist, because
Binghi had been cut off from outside
influences for thousands of years.
The sole proprietor of the rugged dial
hereunder presented is known to Army
records as Eric Valentine Haywood,
major; to his messmates, “Mick” ; and
to the hundreds of gunners he’s knocked
into firing-shape, “Uncle Mick.” Twenty-
five years an artilleryman, just retired,
Haywood was with the 2/Ist 25-pounder
crowd at Bardia, Tobruk, Derna,
Benghazi, Buna. At Buna he swam
across a creek under fire, crawled
to where he could see the ack-ack
post his battery was after, and
brought down a demolishing fire
upon it—M.C. Near the same place, he
got behind the Jap lines —result, destroy-
ing fire on an enemy pill-box, and the
U.S. Silver Star for him. Just before
the war’s end, he shifted to paratroop-
ing, thus becoming, at just under 40,
probably the oldest soldier to be trained
HAYWOOD, of the 2/1st
in that lively art. Commander of the
famed A Field Battery—whose history
reaches back to before the Boer War —
at North Head School of Artillery after
the battery had returned from Japan,
Haywood of late has taken to journalism,
and has got his articles and stories into
most eastern-capital papers.
A man of parts was Herbert William
Moffitt, passed over in Sydney. Son of
a pioneer of the Shoalhaven (N.S.W.)
district, he stayed on the land till he
was 20, then took on teaching in a bush
school on the upper-Richmond. A
transfer to Redfern, in Sydney, gave him
the chance to enlarge his own learning
at the university not far distant, to the
tune of 8.A., M.A. and LL.B. degrees.
During the early part of this period he
was a contributor of excellent black-and-
white drawings to The * Bulletin,
specialising in bush-scenes featuring abos,
rouseabouts, horses and such local fauna,
the subjects he knew best. His teaching
career culminated with appointment as
English master at Sydney High, where
one of his chief interests was interesting
the boys in staging Shakspearian plays—
displaying, himself, a talent for acting
and stage-managing. Changing to law in
1923, he had wide legal experience before
being appointed to th# Bench of the
N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation Commis-
sion. Retired in 1948, he was 76 at the
end.
“Uramao”; An additional decoration
for his already sizeable scroll has been
awarded by the Royal Society of New
Zealand to Dr. L. F. Richdale —the Hicks
award for 1953. A world-authority on
penguins and their habits, deeply versed
in the ways of all sea birds, Richdale is
in the habit of isolating himself on un-
inhabited islands off the N.Zf coast to
observe seafowl at close-quarters. Re-
cently he returned from a postage-stamp
island off the far end of N.Z. after a
study of mutton-birds.
“Pip Tok”: Claimed to be the first
serving Yeoman of the Guard to visit
Australia, Harry Edwards, inspected at
Fremantle, is a hefty six-feet-three,
with appropriate breadth, and is prob-
ably the oldest serving ranker in
the British Army. It will be 50 years
next January since he enlisted in the
King’s Royal Rifle Corps, with which he
soldiered in India, and on the Western
Front against the Kaiser. He has been
a Yeoman of the Guard for over 28
years. One of the four picked Yeomen
who escorted the Queen’s State Coach
to and from Westminster Abbey on
Coronation Day, he escorted the State
Coach at the coronation of George VI,
and attended the lying-in-state of Queen
Alexandra, George V, George VI, and
Queen Mary. Here on an eight-months’
furlough, he aims to tell radio-listeners
and hall-audiences the history of the
Yeomen of the Guard.
From an old comrade:
One of Australia’s outstanding gunnery
experts, Colonel J. H. Hurst, has passed on
in Sydney, leaving a splendid record as a
trainer and commander of thousands of artillery-
men. Born in Middlesex (Eng.), Hurst landed
in Westralia in 1887, and with his brothers and
brother-in-law, Talbot Hobbs (later Lt.-General
Sir Talbot Hobbs), joined the Ist Battery,
A.FA. He became partner with Hobbs as
an architect, and about this time represented
his State in the Inter-Colonial rowing cham-
pionships. Just before War I commandant of
the School of Gunnery in Sydney, when the
RA.A. Permanent Siege Brigade left for over-
seas in 1915 Hurst was in charge of one of
the two siege batteries (8-inch and 9.2-inch
howitzers), and later commanded the brigade.
During his service therein his batteries served
in 17 different corps, including British, Aus-
tralian, French and Belgian. On numerous
occasions his batteries were complimented by
senior commanders on their accuracy of fire
and speed in occupation of positions. With
D. 5.0., Croix de Guerre and several “men-
tions,” he came back to again command the
School of Gunnery, but the economy axe,
which fell in 1922, retired him to his architec-
ture. He became secretary of the Institute of
Architects and of the Associated Council of
Arts in N.S.W. War II found him with an
important appointment in Manpower. His
son is a lieutenant-colonel, and his daughter
married to a brigadier. Many of his old com-
rades farewelled him at his last parade, with a
smart escort, gun-carriage and trumpeters. -
Melbourne-born Sir William McKie,
Master of Choristers and organist at
Westminster Abbey, who looked after
that side of the Coronation, is coming to
Australia to repeat the performance on
Australian organs with Australian choirs
and orchestra to assist him. He thinks
the Sydney Town Hall organ one of the
world’s finest. It was McKie who
started those lunch-hour’recitals in Mel-
bourne which brought protests from some
of the city Bumbles, who complained that
he ought to play popular music. “It seems
popular enough to me,” McKie retorted.
“I have two crowded sessions daily.”
Another Australian, Rev. Howard Hollis,
who is Canon at the Abbey, is on his way
to Melbourne to arrange Sir William’s
itinerary.
“Cass”; Credit for the gazettal of
Muogamarra Sanctuary in the Hawkes-
bury sandstone region as a national
reserve must go to N.S.W. conservator
John D. Tipper. In the 1920’s devasta-
tion of acres of Hawkesbury forest-lands
by fire and felling brought home to Tipper
that unless a sanctuary were founded
wildflowers, trees and fauna native
to the area would vanish. He decided
on the site in 1923 ; in 1933 the Gov-
ernment made him a grant, later extended
to 2000 acres. Beautiful vistas of the
Hawkesbury can be seen from certain
heights. Over the last 20 years Tipper
has had to fight industrial and real-estate
ambitions, fire and, worst of all, apathy.
Despite these problems, Muogamarra
continued to flourish as a wonderland of
wildflower displays and the nesting-home
of thousands of birds. Management of
the sanctuary will be administered by a
trust, with Tipper as chairman, and a
council nominated by leading societies.
Tipper’s other achievements include the
fight to preserve the koalas and the
founding of the Rangers’ League, which
today has some thousands of members.
“C. 8.”: Hilaire Belloc, passed on at
83 in England, was a poet, a novelist, a
journalist, an essayist, an explorer (though
not far off the beaten track), a brilliant
conversationalist, a connoisseur of wines,
a wit, a politician—he sat in the House
of Commons from 1906 to ‘l9l0 —a
historian and a cavalryrhan. But he was
no military expert, as he proved when a
leading London daily engaged him as its
adviser in the first months of World
War I. He indulged enthusiastically in
prognostication, and before the 1915
offensives had killed off the German army
twice over, until it became a major mys-
tery where the Kaiser was recruiting fresh
millions for his forces. He was the son
of a French lawyer and an Irishwoman
who became a militant suffragette. His
long Spanish cloak and slouch hat were
as familiar a sight in London as the half
of G. K. Chesterton protruding from a
hansom. He wrote over 100 volumes.
Patrick Donnell, who, as stage-director
of the Stratford Players, has the job of
directing the martial proceedings of
Harry, Hotspur, Mortimer, Westmore-
land and the other doughty warriors who
troubled the peace of the fourth Henry,
is no stranger to military operations. He
was twice commissioned as a soldier —by
Edward VII and George VI. At the
end of World War I he was lieut.-colonel
with D.S.O. and Croix de Guerre. Pre-
vious to that he was a marine, with
Governor Sir Dallas Brooks as his
instructor. Back in civvies he became a
cub reporter on an Irish paper and in
his spare time an extra at the Gate
Theatre, Dublin. He signed Eire naturali-
sation papers, and when Hitler pulled
the lanyard had to be recommissioned
as a foreigner. He joined the Royal
Marine Assault Brigade just in time to
be posted as a commander of commandos
to Walcheren Island. That tough job
finished, he took the same men to Nor-
mandy on D-Day and led them right
through to the end, after which he was
back at the theatre-doors and, after
working in the West End, joined the
Avon people.
Re-elected for the third time to the
presidency of the Victorian R.S.L., Nor-
man Wilson has never been out of office
since he became secretary of the South
Melbourne sub-branch in 1920, the day
after he returned from War I as a private
in the 14th Field Ambulance. League
membership in the State was then 5000;
it’s now 80,000. Another Wilson has
become the first woman life-member of
the R.S.L. —Matron G. M. Wilson,
C.8.E., Royal Red Cross and Florence
Nightingale Medal. In War I she was
principal matron of No. 3 A.G.H., Egypt,
Lemnos and France, and was “men-
tioned” five times. In War II she was
Matron in Chief of the nurses with the
A.I.F. from 1940 to 1941 and was one
of the first trustees of the Shrine of
Remembrance. She came to the League’s
annual conference in Melbourne to urge
harder work to raise money for the
Shrine forecourt.
From personal observation:
Alasdair Alpin MacGregor, whose portrait
(very faithful) appears hereunder, looks and
sounds like a man born out of his time. If
he had flourished in the early 18th century
he would certainly have been (like Rob Roy)
a “respectable freebooter,” devoted to the
acquirement of ducal cattle. As he was born
In 1899, son of a Godfearing Indian Army
medical colonel, he merely enlisted in the 15th
Scottish Division in 1915, getting himself
severely wounded, and presently emerging from
Edinburgh University in the guise of author,
member of the Scottish National Trust, Socialist
and anti-vivisectionist. After seeing Australia
he is no longer a Socialist; but he says that
the experiment had to be tried. He is, how-
ever, still a vegetarian whom nobody would dare
to stoke up with a pork chop, an anti-
yivisectionist who sounds as if he would be
ready to vivisect vivisectionists with a meat-
MacGREGOR, of the Highlands
axe, a Christian pacifist who sounds as if he
would be willing to tear out the entrails of
parsons who preach the sanctity of the atom-
bomb —he would probably put a bawbee in
the plate when it came to the point—and an
author who has written more charming books
and articles about the Scottish Highlands and
Isles than any other man. He, is an able
photographer, a musician deeply versed in
Highland music, an overwhelming raconteur,
a good companion (if you are not a vivisec-
tionist or a MacDonell who basely spells his
name with two “n’s”), and his fascination with
Central Australia has led him to prolong his
stay from an intended four months to fifteen.
p.S. —Does anyone know a good ghost, goblin
or ferlie? He is writing a book about them.
One of the outstanding successes of
National Opera’s current season at
Sydney Tivoli has been Ronald Dowd;
he had, in fact, been one of the mainstays
of the past two seasons. Sydney-born,
bank officer before the war, after service
with the 2nd A.I.F. he decided to make
singing his career, studying with Richard
Thew. Soon he became a familiar figure
in oratorio and A.B.C. concerts. In 1948
he toured Japan for the Army. Then
came an offer to sing Don Jose in “Car-
DOWD, of the National Opera
men” in Perth. Dowd had little idea of
the role, but made such an impression
that he was immediately signed for a
season of opera in Melbourne. Now
emerging as one of the best dramatic
tenors Australia has produced, the burly,
genial Dowd has also developed into
quite a versatile actor —his Canio in
“Pagliacci” was a highlight of the season.
D. W. Brisbane, Perth civil engineer
just appointed to the Commonwealth
Bank board, has held down important
jobs before. Starting off in the Westralian
Public Works Department, he worked on
jobs for the British Government
in Malaya and through the Far East, but
went to sea as an engineer-officer in the
R.A.N. when public work of a more
pressing character came up in 1939. Later,
when Japan joined the Nazis, and big
troop-concentrations were made in Wes-
tralia, Brisbane was released to manage
the Midland Railway Company. He
remained manager till his retirement in
1950, but retirement did not mean stop-
work. He is still chairman of directors
of the Midland line, director of two insur-
ance companies, a tile-making concern,
and of the West Australian and Perth
Newspaper Companies. When weather
and business permit, he takes his recrea-
tion sailing, and was once commodore
of the Royal Freshwater Yacht Club.
Into the Silence:-
In Perth, at 71, George Edgar Orr, a school-
master who spent 43 years with the Westralian
Education Department before he retired in 1946.
One of the original staff of Perth Modern
School, the State’s first Government high-school,
he was afterwards head of schools on the
goldfields and in Perth. His chief contribution
to primary education was the compilation of
a series of graded arithmetic text-books, still
used in Westralian schools.
At 78, in Melbourne, John Thomas Brennan,
formerly Victorian manager of the Aberdeen
and Commonwealth shipping line, and
manager of the Commonwealth fleet inaugurated
by W. M. Hughes. Brennan launched the Jervis
Bay, sunk by the pocket-battleship Admiral
Scheer.
At Auckland (N.Z.), at 84, Edward Bunyan
Anderson, sole surviving grandson of Rev.
Norman McLeod, who led the band of Scots
from Nova Scotia 100 years ago to found a
settlement at Waipu (N.Z.), where the centenary
was celebrated a few months back. He spent
a couple of years in Australia in a bank,
returned to New Zealand and served the
National Bank for nine years, then launched
into sharebroking. His varied interests included
a directorship of N.Z. Newspapers, Ltd., and
managing-directorship of a large island-trading
firm.
In Melbourne, James Graham, the city’s
oldest wigmaker, after more than 70 years in
the trade. “Othello” was being staged in
Melbourne at the time of his death; Graham’s
father, founder of the firm over 100 years ago,
was hairdresser to G. V. Brooke, the famed
actor, when he made his first Australian
appearance as Othello. Graham claimed to have
treated more eminent judges and barristers than
the rest of the city’s barbers put together.
At Te Kaha, Poverty Bay (N.Z.), at 85,
Sam Hei, the first Maori lawyer in New
Zealand. A paramount chief of the Whaka-
tohea tribe, descended from the old kings or
Polynesia, while at Te Aute College he had
as schoolmates Sir Peter Buck and Sir Apirana
Ngata, two of Maoriland’s most distinguished
natives. Graduating from the University or
New Zealand, he practised law at Gisborne
and later at Opotiki.
At Dalwallinu (W.A.), at 87, John William
Roach, pioneer of the district, old-time cricketer
and overlander. At his native Goulburn
(N.S.W.) his bowling gained him a place in
an eleven which played against an English
team. In 1882, Roach went with the Durack
family to Queensland, and, in the following
year, accompanied the Durack brothers on the
long cattle-drive to the Kimberleys—it took
nearly three years.


PRUNING-TIME


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: We-’ci built a four-mile
boundary-fence right round the property,
with five double-gates in it, got paid for
it and were looking round the district
for something else when the farmer
decided on a couple of dividing-fences,
We put them in, with gates. One ended
up against the homestead, so he asked us
to swing a little gate in it for people to
pass through. Up till then everything
had been just right. But that gate! His
missus didn’t like the latch; we altered
it. The son thought it was too high;
we lowered it. The boss thought it
would look nice painted; we painted it.
The mfssus wanted it the other way
about; we put it the other way about,
Came a pause. That night I looked up
towards the homestead from our hut and
said, “Wonder what else they’ll cook up
“Here we'll have the strangling-vine, over there the poison-ivy, just here
the stinging-tree and there the deadly nightshade"
about the flamin’ gate tonight?” Mat
looked from me to the house. Then he
went out into the darkness. Next morn-
ing that gate was suspended on a halter
rope from a near-by garden tree and on
it was a sheet of paper bearing the
legend, “Hung at last!” A little later
we’d received our final cheque.
* * ♦ «
“The Pirate”: The report that a black
duck with a metal tag which had been
officially attached to his leg at Coburg
(Vic.) was shot recently at Rockhampton
(Q.) bears out a theory I’ve long held
that most Australian game-birds travel
the continent following the rains—that
is, the water, grass and insect-life that
come in the wake of the downpours.
Out from Cooktown each February and
March we used to see the “wet-season
lakes” covered with duck; by the spring
it was hard to find a blackie anywhere—
they’d be where the rain was, whether
the Murray Valley, Centralia or the Nul-
larbor. Also, when droving down the
Darling from Bourke to Wilcannia we
scarcely saw a quail on those parched,
windswept river-plains. Then a record
rain at Wilcannia transformed those
wastes into a green sward, and for the
300 miles down to Mildura the brown-
seed-eaters were so numerous that their
continual rising kept scaring our road-
weary wethers and our horses and dogs.
“E.”: Many an old sheep-dog
resorts to anticipation of what’s
needed as age slackens his pace, but,
though this old mong of mine knows
sheep, nobody could call his anticipa-
tion of my wishes “almost uncanny.”
He has reached that age when he
thinks he knows everything, and
when things don’t pan out he blames
me for no co-operation. I don’t
waste breath giving him orders.
Entering a paddock, he immediately
begins mustering. When I ride out
the gate on the further side he stares
disgustedly, then comes on to begin
mustering the next paddock. By
the time I’ve ridden through
half-a-dozen gates and reached the pad-
dock I want mustered, the old dog is
nearly too tired to help. Droving, he
always knows the bad spots, and antici-
pates what the jumbucks will do about
it, but should I be cranky enough to want
the mob taken anywhere but along our
accustomed route, I can take it there
myself. s
“H.A.L.”: Aboriginal basketwork,
made from rushes or very strong grass,
was eagerly sought by early settlers. The
baskets were so well made that some
withstood 50 years of wear. In many
cases they were irreplaceable, because
the tribe which had made them
had become extinct. Samples of such
basketwork have become valuable
museum specinfens. The biggest blank
spot in the data on aboriginal basket-
making lies on the north coast of W.A.
The natives of the Ngaluma tribe, living
around Pilbara, made a unique type of
basket from twisted cords of grass-fibre,
Today not one solitary specimen of this
work is known, and it is a lost art among
the surviving natives. If anyone has a
basket made last century by this tribe,
the S.A. Museum would be very glad to
hear of it.
“Sack”: When I catch a fish it’s an
event. Which was why I almost bayed
when my rod bent like a bow. The fish
set out for New Zealand. I let
him run. Fully 50yds. he went before
I turned him. A few revolutions of the
reel and he was off again. The handful
of spectators had become a small crowd
before the powerful fighting fish began
to weaken, make shorter runs, take
longer to recuperate. Finally I wound
him in, working my way down the steps
to a small-boat landing-stage, because I
knew that the line would not be strong
enough to lift such a fish up to the jetty,
Sometimes X wake up at night and still
feel my ears burning. Ever hooked a
lOin. mullet through the tail?
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Mention that one of the
Archers of Central Queensland pioneer-
ing went off to the Californian gold-
rush recalls that Ned Hawkins, who first
took up the historic Boonara holding,
went with him. Ned worked Boonara
for three years and then sold out to
David Jones, of the Sydney merchandis-
"He MAY be a good scrapper , but he's no Don Juan."
ing firm, whose scions have held it to
this day. In California Ned was drowned
while swimming a flooded creek. Some
years ago there was found among the
effects of one of the Mactaggart family
the flyleaf of a novel which bore a
message in lead-pencil addressed to Ned
by an early owner of the adjoining Kilki-
van property originally pioneered by the
Mactaggarts. The message was an urgent
plea for help: “The blacks have attacked
and poor Fred has been speared and I
thunk several of the shepherds.” Inci-
dentally, Dan Mactaggart, the founder of
Kilkivan, discovered the existence of
mercury on the property, ingeniously dis-
tilling the metal by means of a gun-barrel
as a retort. Later the town of Cinnibar
arose on the scene of the, discovery; it
was the only quicksilver mine in the
Empire.
“Horseless Horseman”: Buffel-grass
should help central Australia. In the
1920’s on Wallal Downs on the Ninety
Mile Beach between Port Hedland and
Broome it lifted the carrying-capacity by
10,000 to 22,000 sheep in four years and
put the part-owner-manager, Harley
Lacey, on his feet. Possibly it was first
taken up that way by camels. Joe
Moore, the butcher at Hedland, who
had great difficulty in holding his
fats on the usual sparse spinifex
diet, found the new fodder growing
wild and sowed it in his holding
paddocks. It was so successful that he
offered the seed to the stations at £1 a
bag. In those days Wallal had only two
mails and a wool-schooner a year, so
Lacey rode a horse 70 miles tP the port
and bought 30 bags. But one day, before
the schooner reached the station, he was
chasing a dingo on horseback when the
warragul led him to a remote part of the
run where he came on a plain of buffel-
grass. He harvested and broadcast the
seed along the mile-wide, more fertile
coastal strip for a distance of 50 miles.
Since then, with the help of subdivision,
the run has carried up to 35,000 sheep, and
this in a precarious 11 in.-rainfall area.
#’* * ♦
“Fairf”; As sure as you get talking to
an old-timer in a thriving rural town,
he’ll point to the key position in the
shopping-centre and inform you that he
“could’ve bought that whole block from
there to the corner for fifteen quid.”
Then he’ll go on to shooting kangaroos
where the railway-station is now, riding
poddy calves through the scrub where the
bank stands, and so on. Well, this, too,
was once a place like that. Now there
are three huge hotels, scores of lavishly-
fitted modern shops, and eight bus routes,
each carrying three or more super-
elongated buses, and, on a recent Satur-
day morning, a chap with a flower-stall
selling gum-tips —and they were going
like hot cakes!
“B. A. Ker”: We were fishing from a
rowing-boat on Tuggerah Lakes (N.S.W.)
when the bloke near the stern began to
haul in. As the catch came into sight I
ca lled, “An eel.” “A snake /” yelled the
catcher. And it was! A yellowish-brown
in color, paling to a lighter shade under
the belly, about as thick as a man’s fore-
finger and 2ft. in length. We broke its
back and were eyeing it when the chap
in the bow hauled in its twin brother,
Any information on these underwater
snakes? They have no fins, no eel-like
tail, the skin is very slippery and the
jaw is pointed, almost V-shaped, with
sharp teeth visible.
“Villefair”: It’s true that fowls will
pick on a newcomer in the pen (B.
l/7/’53), and that reminds me of the old
Cornish ex-fishwife who had a tiny
poultryfarm near- us. Friction between
her and her neighbor finally came to open
warfare when she was seen walking out
of the neighbor’s place with a white Leg-
horn pullet under her arm. The neighbor
promptly got the local constable, pro-
duced witnesses and vowed she could
identify the stolen chook. Confronted
with the Law, the old Cousin Jill was not
perturbed. She admitted taking the
pullet, but claimed that it had been
stolen from her pen first, and she had
merely retrieved her own property. The
constable’s lip was curling cynically when
she suddenly shot at him; “Ee knows
some’ut about fowls, don’t ’ee?” The
Law admitted to some knowledge.
“Well, when ’ee puts fowl with other
’uns doan other ’uns fight ’un?” the old
woman asked. The cop conceded the
point. “Then look at they ’uns,” crowed
the defendant. “Be any of ’em fightin’?”
Thus Cornwall won —on a fowl.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Swelpme”: Very young and extremely
proud of my first rifle, I had two tenets
of firearm tore imparted to me. A rifle
will Mow out if it is discharged when
something is Mocking the barrel; and
to snap a trigger without a cartridge in
the breech is to ruin the striking-pin. I
tested the first contention with my .22
when the pullthrough string broke, leav-
ing the scrap of flannel half-way
up the spout. Playing safe, I
attached a fishing-line to the trigger and
retired to a discreet distance before
nervously firing the shot. There was a
slight “plop” almost simultaneous with
the report, and the barrel was clear. But
I still believed that a rifle was damaged
if the trigger was clicked. That was
why, 30-odd years later, I stared when a
rifleman said he spent hours every night
lying on his bedroom floor, sighting and
pressing the trigger. My protest surprised
him. “I’ve been doing it a good few
years now,” he said, “and I’ve never
noticed that it injured my rifle.” He
should have known what he was talking
about —he’s just been at Bisley, represent-
ing Australia.
NORTH-SOUTH ROAD, 1953
Lorries and utilities, burping down the High-
way,
Buzzing down the bitumen like bees across a
river; ...
Beardless boys from Bendigo, riding it the fly
-way,
Birdum to the Alice in a Sunday driver’s flivver—
But Fazal Din rests by a roadside pump
And his camels spit on a spinifex clump
While he dreams of the old-time roaming (Hey,
Black Paddy Ryan!).
Then the Afghan cameleers sweated from the
Alice
Carrying the copper wire into unknown places:
Days when any quartpot seemed like a sacred
chalice
Days When horse and bullock teams perished
in their traces;
While the linesmen prayed above barcoo rot
That the beer at the Tennant be not too hot
And a mile seemed a million paces (Ooosh-ta,
Simon Rieff!).
So they built the telegraph, black or white
or yellow,
Brought it down from Fanny Bay, brought old
England nearer;
Raised the poles by Ryan’s Well (hear the
bullocks bellow)
Linked it up, dotdash, dotdash and the words
grew clearer;
While the Afghans prayed as they faced
the Fast
That the job would go on for a while, at
least —
“Inshallah! May the cost be dearer!” (Ya,
Mohammed Ali!)
Sporting cars and caravans trickle down the
Highway,
Not a man alive today who raised the wires
beside them.
Dozing passengers on high who watch them
from the skyway
Never knew the CCC who made the road that
glides them—
So a myall sneaks to the bitumen’s edge
And hides in the knives of some desert
sedge;
Old Fazal awakes and he lights his fires
By his camel-barouche with its wide-splayed
tyres
But the Road rests not, nor the whining
wires.
N.S.W.
ERIC BAUMOE.


TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
HOSPITAL
BRANDY
3T
mi
ill
nsc.
SB
&£IAL
HQ
cra*>c
scoLl
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: TOOTH & CO. LIMITED.
When the
Occasion calls
for the best!
T5T.27.12
STILL TOP OF THE CLASS.
After more than eleven years of continuous presenta-
tion, the sprightly, well informed “Quiz Kids” are
still tops in entertainment —and their popularity still
grows! Compered by knowledgeable John Dease, the
“Quiz Kids,” brought to you with the compliments of
Johnson and Johnson, come to your home each
Sunday evening at 7.30. (Except 3AW/CV —Fridays
at 8.30.)
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2HR, 2MW, 2LF, >2PK, 2 MG, 2WL, 2LT, 2CA, 3'CV, 4GY,
6WB/MD/BY, 7LA and many other commercial broadcasting
Produced by stations in Australia.
AttWOI
T
mm
“Bass”: If a doctor who lately decried
honey as simply “a mixture of sugar
and water” had applied that description
to nectar he’d have been nearer right.
Nectar is watery, usually colorless and
sweet, but the sweet taste is quite distinct
from that of honey. The bees take the
nectar, get rid of most of the water in
it, and digest it to form mellitose, which
is a distinct chemical compound quite
different from the sugar in nectar. The
bee is the only thing in nature that pro-
duces honey, but you can get mellitose
in different forms. It’s contained in the
gum exuded by some trees, and, as that
is thought to be produced by bacteria,
there may be some form of life that has
almost got the bees’ secret without having
its hoarding instinct. Incidentally, it isn’t
only doctors who confuse honey and
nectar. Ornithologists have dubbed a
whole family of nectar-sipping birds
“honeyeaters.”
♦ ♦ * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Cedar isn’t in it with
beach-honeysuckle as a furniture-wood
(B. 8/7/’53). This little-known timber,
unlike cedar, does not dent or mark every
time you knock it, a weakness that “B. A.
Ker” omits when praising the virtues of
his wood. When dressed, the grain of this
bottlebrush of the seashore comes up in
rich red figures, and it doesn’t need
polishing— two coats of clear varnish will
do the trick. That is why in early Gipps-
land days furniture-makers went out to
the coastal homesteads to make tables,
sideboards and the like on the spot; they
fashioned it out of pit-sawn planks of
this timber. The fact that honeysuckle
in log form outside prohibited foreshore
areas is now hard to come by accounts
for its little use commercially.
* * * *
“Betcha”: I’ve been lambing for the
past few weeks, and so far, in the home
paddock alone, am reasonably sure of
over a dozen lambs lost to foxes (B.
1/7/’53). I left a ewe with healthy twins
in a far corner, intending to drift her
down nearer home. Returning less than
half an hour later I topped the rise to
find a fox starting to feed off one of the
youngsters. The lamb was warm and
still twitching. I also witnessed two foxes
stalking a three-days-old lamb that was
being defended by its mother. As the
ewe ran at the first fox, the second nipped
in from the further side and grabbed
the lamb. Usually a fox finds little
trouble collecting a lamb, as the ewes
wander off feeding while the family
sleeps in the tussocks or against a log.
The pests are particularly troublesome
this year, and lambing-paddocks are
liberally strewn with leg-bones, feet and
odd bits left over from Brer’s breakfasts.
Maybe there’s something in the theory
that, owing to myxomatosis, the scarcity
of rabbits forces foxes to resort more
freely to lambs, but the low price of
fox-pelts over the past few years has
resulted in their greater numbers.
* * * «
“H.C.8.”: If there is another beach
in Australia like Bombo, on the N.S.W.
south coast. I’d like to see it. Here the
train-traveller has the rather amazing
pleasure of being borne
along on the very edge
of the beach itself, with
the surf so close it
almost seems he could
toss a cigarette-packet
into the waves. The
engineer who dared to
run a railway-fine on
a sand foundation, so
dose to a long beach
notorious for its “chop”
and cross-currents, must
have been either a
very foolish man or a
most knowledgeable
one. If results prove
anything he was the
latter. Storms and
floods that have caused
derailments on other
stretches along the line
have never wrought
serious damage at this
apparently-vulnerable spot. Strangely,
too, the sea shows no sign of encroaching,
though on the central coast experts are
baffled as to how to prevent whole
stretches of beach from being swept out
to sea —with sea-walls wrecked and
dressing-pavilions undermined in conse-
quence. Perhaps the answer is to be
found at Bombo—in a hedge of giant
cactus, thriving on raw sand.
* * ♦ *
“G’roper”: The latest bid for recovery
of alleged Leichhardt relics recalls that
it was something similar that launched
John Forrest on his career. Exploring
out from York (W.A.), the Monger
brothers in 1858 met Mungaroo, who
told of “a big water” far to the east,
where, in his boyhood, the tribes had
massacred a party of whites. Governor
Hampton, in the following year,
authorised an expedition which included
young John Forrest, of the Survey
Department, George Monger, Malcolm
Hammersley, a t.-0.-l. man named
Morgan, and 16 horses. Forrest was
then just 21: Hammersley and Monger
much of his own age. No relics of lost
explorers were found, but the expedition
located and named quite a few mountains,
most of which were given feminine
names: Mt. Ida, Mt. Leonora, Mt. Mar-
garet—the last being named for the lady
who was to become the leader’s wife,
Margaret Hammersley. Happenings
included finding a young abo. weep-
ing for his little brother, served
up as the piece de resistance to
the bosses of the big corroboree,
and Hammersley losing his loaded
revolver, which was recovered just
as the finders were heating it over
a fire—the abo.’s recipe for dealing with
“I HAVE to Walk on tiptoe — I'm astride the handrail."
he got anywhere near the centre, and find
himself bashing futilely with the oia
pinching in. a narrow, horizontal cut. As
for falling a tree on the spot required,
m y m oney would go on the fellow who
chopped the trunk on the side he wanted
tbe tree t 0 f ad; and sawed and wedged it
Qn otber ’ Even then, a strong gust
wind at tbe cr itical moment can have
, . .
* * * *
. ,
“Old-timer”: Spring caug ®
Gate unawares. The hamlet, still som
what torpid from a long, wet winter,
hadn’t noticed that the wattles were
putting out early blossoms, that the wheat
was up, the small birds very busy in the
anything strange. Twenty-five miles east
of what is now Laverton, Forrest called
a halt. Returning by a different route,
the party didn’t even lose a horse.
Forrest so commended his convict-farrier
that Morgan received a full pardon.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: Before we get into holts
as to the direction in which a tree would
fall when chopped on one side only (B.
8/7/’53), who would cut a. tree that way?
Unless some very unusual circumstances
forced him to, an experienced axeman
wouldn’t, and a mug couldn’t. It’s
merely a matter of angles: the axeman
would know that he’d have to make his
scarf twice as wide to take him right
through the trunk, instead of half-way;
which would mean that the chips wouldn’t
fly unless he belted them out with chops
in the middle, thereby nearly doubling
the work. The mug would make the
mistake he always makes —start with a
narrow scarf, “chop himself out” before
bushes, crows soaring lazily overhead,
and Nature generally stirring herself.
Spring came from the east, along the
Parkes-road, where small bluebells
showed in the roadside grasses, and the
turn-off to Wongalea ran between pad-
docks emerald with new wheat. Bogan
Gate went to bed one night, and in the
morning when it got up Spring was there.
Even then the township might have
missed the advent, only just on dawn
the dogs in the houses by the railway
set up a clamor and a couple of them
got into a fight. Somebody got up to
see what it was all about and there was
Spring, leaning against the pub veranda,
waiting for the bar to open. The early
riser went back to the bedroom and said
to his missus, “Thing’s ’ll be movin’
today. Old Jim Spring’s in town. Y’
know what he is ! Soon’s he gets a few
in he’ll start pickin’ fights an’ then the
John’ll have t’ run him in like always.”
And he got the matches and went out to
light the fire.
DAY’S END ON THE PIER
The long grey pier hangs in the still
Of waters calmed at the end of day
And all the lights begin to spill
Their gleam within the fading grey.
A solitary fisherman
Throws his last bait into the sea,
Winds up his line, and, for a span,
Watches the water wistfully
As he stands black against the sky
Where clouds still hold gold from the sun.
Late gulls go wheeling their last fly,
The sombre shag’s lone vigil’s done;
And now within the quietness,
Sailing like swans in to the coast,
Strung in a line all effortless,
The fishing-boats come home to roost.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


$
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
aH your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
———-MAIL ORDER- j
5-YEAR GUARANTEE
—“» LAY-BY NOW FOR CHRISTMAS —1
ONLY 51- WILL SECURE
* ALL SWISS WATCH REPAIRS ACCEPTED
The EVER-GOLD
CASINO
Gent’s Swiss imported jewelled
wrist watch, in EVER-GOLD case
guaranteed not to tarnish. Anti-
magnetic, sweep second band,
luminous dial, shock protected and
fitted with unbreakable glass and
leather strap. FIVE YEAR
WRITTEN GUARANTEE.
Only £4/12/6
Stay-Gold wrist band, 17/6 extra.
(C.O.D. slightly extra)
The EVER-GOLD
WIMBLEDON
Ladies’ dainty wrist watch with
Swiss jewelled movement and
set in beautiful EVER-GOLD
case, guaranteed not to tarnish.
Unbreakable glass, luminous
dial and fitted with leather
band. FIVE YEAR WRITTEN
GUARANTEE.
Only £4/12/6
Chrome case, £3/19/6.
(C.O.D. slightly extra)
Stay-Gold Wrist Band, 17/6 extra
■BARGAIN OF THE MONTH!-
BARGAIN BEN
SPECIAL:
- The DEBRET
Gent’s sturdy and reliable
Swiss imported wrist
watch. In two - piece
chrome case with luminous
dial and anti-magnetic
movement. Fitted with
unbreakable glass and
strong leather strap. FIVE
YEAR WRITTEN GUAR-
ANTEE.
Only 59/6
(C.O.D. slightly extra)
* SPECIAL: Chrome Wrist
Band, 10/6 extra.
dfg
The MARGARET
Ladies’ stylish Cocktail Watch with con-
vex unbreakable glass and exclusive 15
jewelled Swiss imported movement. Set
in beautiful “Ultra-Modem” chrome case
with stainless steel back. Raised gold
figures, anti-magnetic, shock protected and
fitted with dainty cordette strap. FIVE
YEAR WRITTEN GUARANTEE.
Only £6/17/6
(C.O.D. slightly extra)
Chrome Bracelet, 12/6 extra.
df
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Metropolitan Cement
Accounts of Metropolitan
Portland Cement, Ltd., for the
year to December 31, 1952, and
dated July 21, 1953, still show
the co. to have been operating at
a loss up to seven months ago,
and in their report the directors
do not mention whether profits
are being earned during the
present year.
For the first time a profit-and-
loss account fs printed. Loss for
the first half of 1951-52 was
£56,105, and was carried to
establishment account (now
£289,955). For the second half
the loss was £34,453, and was
left to the debit of p. and 1.
Total intangibles are £364,483.
In calculating the year’s loss
(total £90,558) an amount of
£102,012 was charged for bank
and debenture interest, £64,379
for depreciation and amortisa-
tion, and £2OOO for directors’
fees. Net overdraft at balance-
day ' was £2,809,328 (up
£396,204), debentures were
£lOO,OOO, other creditors
£92,091, while book-value of
fixed assets at the cement-works
was £3,019,443. Depreciation
allowance works out at about
2\ p.c. of working plant, etc., and
limestone quarry. The interest
charge seems to average under
4 p.c. on the overdraft and de-
bentures. The co.’s bankers are
the Rural Bank of N. S. Wales,
owned by the State Government,
The co. has received many
favors from “Labor” Govern-
ments, State and Federal. It got
its dollars to buy second-hand
U.S. plant through the consent
of the Chifley Government, and
after it commenced production
the N. S. Wales “Labor” Gov-
ernment permitted the co. to
charge up to 50 p.c. more than
its competitors in N. S. Wales,
and an even higher figure was
obtained in Queensland. At this
time cement was in very short
supply, and, including the
premium charged, the co.’s pro-
duct still sold below the cost of
imported cement.
The position has now changed.
Cement is more readily available
in N. S. Wales, and there is actu-
ally some price-cutting, based on
freight advantages possessed by
some manufacturers. In March,
1953, Metropolitan directors
reduced the price of their product
to a “competitive level”; but
whether this is a profitable level
has yet to be demonstrated. The
co. has a heavy interest and de-
preciation burden to carry in
relation to its present capacity.
Metropolitan has a Norwegian
cement-making unit, said to be
a “complete cement-making
plant,” ready for installation,
and “capable of more than
doubling the present output,” the
amount of which is not stated.
It is hoped that installation of
the additional plant can be
achieved “without any sub-
stantial increase in the co.’s
indebtedness.” The ultimate
debt position, however, will
depend very considerably upon
whether real profits start to be
earned, and upon how much
capital has to be laid out in order
to earn them and spread the
burden of existing overhead.
Demand for cement, as a
whole, remains good, though
competition is now a real thing.
Share capital of Metropolitan is
£1,004,306, compared with a
total outside debt of £3,001,419.
Possibilities of a dividend to
shareholders are not in sight.
F. J. Walker
A stock attracting investors’
attention in recent weeks has
been F. J. Walker. The 10s.
stock-units have gone over 20s.
for the first time, and have
steadied around that figure. In
the memorandum on the
scrip was offered to the public in
1951 a prospective p.c. div.
was spoken of. Actually, for
the year to June, 1951, a 9 p.c.
distribution was made (4 p.c. tax-
free), for the period to June,
1952, 10 p.c. (4 p.c. tax-free).
An interim of \5 p.c. (tax-free)
was paid on April 30 this year
in respect of the term which
closed on June 30 last.
Every indication is that the
past year has been a bumper one.
The season was favorable, the
meatworks, which are highly
efficient, have been busier than
ever, and the cool-stores have
been well occupied. In the
preceding year some of the by-
products subsidiaries (making
gut, sausage-casings, smallgoods,
etc.) didn’t do so well; but the
largest part of the co.’s activities
is represented in its meatworks,
fellmongering activities, etc. The
canned-meat section is compara-
tively small. Most of the meat-
works output is sold in Aus-
tralia.
On the figures of last balance-
day there is now only about
6 p.c. left in tax-free reserves.
But current earnings from this
closely interwoven and self-
contained business will probably
justify an increased dividend this
year. It has very comfortable
finances, considering the large
turnover, A final at the rate of
the interim, plus a bonus of
2 p.c., would make 12 p.c. for the
year. At 20s. the yield from the
10s. units would be 6 p.c. on that
basis.
Minster, 15 p.c.
The suggestion here last week
that Minster, Ltd., might raise
its distribution to 15 p.c. (from
12i p.c.) was borne out by a
Press release the same day—a
final of 8| p.c. makes, with the
6i p.c. previously paid to share-
holders in Westminster Carpets,
15 p.c. for the year.
Minster took over the shares
of Westminster Carpets as from
December 24 of last year. It
later acquired control of White-
head Chemicals. It appears that
profits of Westminster, now the
principal operating subsidiary,
for the year to June 30 were
£112,544, after providing
£96,194 for taxation and £22,354
for depreciation. The net figure
is equal to 21.2 p.c. on the public
co.’s £530,000 capital.
Westminster worked at full
capacity during the year, a three-
shift working week of 142 hours
being maintained. A compara-
tively small labor force is re-
quired to operate the plant,
which has been unable to cope
with the demand for the co.’s
product.
Minster, Ltd., is one of this
“Give us a go, sister! Bet I hit the jackpot first pop!”
year’s most interesting listings.
The 8| p.c, final is payable on
August 19. Lowest price since
listing in May has been 19s. 6d.
Following announcement of the
higher div. the 10s. stock-units
rose from 21s. 6d. to 235. in
Melbourne, to yield 6.4 p.c. on
a 15 p.c. div.
Hardware Companies
Swans, Ltd., should be among
the first of the N. S. Wales hard-
ware-retailing concerns to tell
investors how business has gone
over the 1952-53 period—the co.
balances on May 31 and sends
its accounts out in August.
Frederic Ash, which has its
headquarters in Newcastle, bal-
ances on June 30 and presents
its accounts a little later than
Swans. Both these concerns cut
their divs. from 15 p.c. to
p.c. in the preceding year,
though both retained more of the
year’s profit in the business than
was distributed to ord.-holders.
After sales at 435. 6d., Ash
shares are sought at 435., no
sellers offering. Swans scrip
is in demand at 425., with no
sellers appearing. There has
also been a hardening in Danks
Holdings 10s. shares—last sale
at 125., with buyers now offer-
ing that figure, and sellers ask-
ing 12s. 9d. (Interim div. was
6 p.c. f p.a., tax-free. Last
annual distribution was 8 p.c.,
tax-free.)
Malleys, Ltd., is now out of
the retailing business, and is re-
ported to be doing well in con-
centrating on manufacturing
and wholesaling. After its bonus
issue in 1951 it paid 6.85 p.c. for
1951-52.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190.000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
AMD PERTH
established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australis
JACKSON a
o.siiiwvaiv
c pmm v
& £rs S
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
T
m
US
n
*<JW*
v
The Bank of New South Wales was
established in 1817 when George 111 was
King. That was 136 years ago. During
nine reigns, the "Wales” has contributed
much to the Australian way of life, serving
not one, but every section of the com-
munity with a complete banking service.
Its network of over 850 branches and
agencies in Australia, New Zealand, Fiji,
Papua and New Guinea, and 7,000 agents
and correspondents overseas, makes the
“Wales” the largest and most widely
experienced, as well as the oldest trading
bank in Australia.
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INOOBPOBAM® Xl* »*W BOOM! *U* WISH LIMITBD X.XAMLIM)
"""“Asmc
TILLEY**. Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
While import restrictions
remain you may have diffl-
cutty in obtaining TILLEY
products.
Par quality —/or economy—for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on 1J pints of Kero. 300 Candle-Power.
Obtainable from alt good Hardware Stores MODEL X 246
Manufacturer’s Representatives: THE guardsman *)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.I.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Tax-relief Prospects
A pre-Budget struggle over
taxes started while Prime
Minister Holland, who is also
Finance Minister, was still in
London, and heavily-taxed
Maorilanders wouldn’t listen to
Ministerial hints that the load
couldn’t be eased without affect-
ing national works. This is the
last chance to make things easier
for taxpayers before the next
general election, in the final
quarter of 1954, about three
months before the annual
income-tax harvest.
A firmer hand with the over-
grown tribe of 50 State depart-
ments, some of which have had
expensive ideas and ambitions as
“empire-builders,” would be
enough to tip the scales in tax-
payers’ favor.
At the same time, Maori-
landers could have fared worse,
judging by the list of conces-
sions made by the Holland Gov-
ernment in four years: In 1950
the 33i p.c. surtax on unearned
income was dropped; the land-
tax exemption was lifted from
£5OO to £1000; and the general
rebate on income tax was raised
from £lO to £ls—at a total cost
to the Budget of £3 million.
Next year die percentage sur-
charge on income tax, for cos.
and individuals, was cut from
15 to 10 p.c.—at a Budget cost
of £3,900,000. In ’52 the sur-
charge was halved to 5 p.c. —
another £3,900,000. In the latest
year death and succession duties
came down by 20 p.c., and
farmers were helped by larger
depreciation allowances and
concessions. for development.
Yet, after all this, total
tax revenue for the twelve-
month ended March was
£199.9 million, against £135.5
million four years ago —such has
been the inflationary trend —and
the tax per head jumped from
£72 to £99 Bs.
Apart from the weight of
income and social-security taxes,
which add up to 62 p.c. of the
total, sales-tax revenue has
snowballed.* Many necessaries
are levied at 20 p.c., which falls
most on the family man and
those near the economic border-
line.
Anomalies and inequalities
have crept into the tax system
to such an extent that the 1951
Taxation Committee, a bunch of
experts, recommended many
changes to set things right. It
suggested: (1) an increase from
£5O to at least £75 in the tax
exemption for children and other
dependants; (2) a rise from
£lOO to £2OO in the exemption
for dependent wives or hus-
bands ; (3) a rise from £2OO to
£270 in the personal exemption ;
and (4) a rise from £l5O to £2OO
in the maximum concession for
life premiums and superannua-
tion payments. It’s 30 years
since N.Z.’s tax system was
thoroughly overhauled, and the
need for doing something about
it grows more urgent every
year.
Kelliher on Banking
Bankers and the banking sys-
tem have copped more than
their share of the blame for the
post-war cost-price spiral in
Maoriland, which “monetary re-
formers” have laid at their door
at every opportunity. Govern-
ment and Treasury interference
with the freedom of the Reserve
Bank, and with the banks in
general, has been chiefly
responsible; there’s no inherent
defect in the system itself.
The most persistent critic is
Henry J. Kelliher, ex-Bank of
N.Z. director, brewery and
hotel-trade leader, prominent
breeder of pedigree stock, and
one of Maoriland’s most suer
cessful businessmen. Although
he condemns the system so
vehemently, Kelliher has pros-
pered under it to an extent that
would make most men content
to leave things as they are.
While profits from his enterprises
have snowballed, he has ham-
mered away year after year at
the need for scrapping over-
draft - financing of business,
with its accompanying creation
of new money—he doesn’t men-
tion the parallel cancellation of
old money —and has pursued a
solo campaign for the adoption
of his system based on lending
only from the “abundant supply
of money already in existence.”
Each year, about this time, he
holds forth on his favorite
theme, and Maorilanders, un-
easy about the inflationary trend,
give him an attentive hearing.
He points to annually higher
trading-bank deposits lying idle,
and in his latest outburst said:
“It is absurd that under the pre-
sent system the banks can’t lend
to industry any of the vast stock-
pile of money, a substantial por-
tion of which should be readily
available for investment. Diffi-
culty was met in floating the
recent £2O million national de-
velopment loan, although the
amount was only a small portion
of N.Z.’s total mbney-supply of
£2BO million.”
Kelliher put the lukewarm
response to the loan down to un-
willingness of investors to lend
on fixed-interest securities when
there was still a prospect of
further inflation, with its con-
cealed threat of capital loss.
An important aspect of the
whole big question was and is
the purchasing-power of in-
comes, but so far wage-earners
have been keeping fairly well on-
side by annual increases in the
pay-packet, to offset most of the
shrinkage in the pound. Obvi-
ously the race between inflation
and wages can’t go on indefi-
nitely, and the time must come
when steps will have to be taken
to restore sound money. Accord-
ing to Kelliher, this day is draw-
ing near. There is little
chance that the half-measures on
which the Government is at pre-
sent relying will set things right.
The main obstacle is division of
monetary powers between the
Reserve Bank and the Treasury,
with the Treasury in control of
long-term rates and in a position
to expand central-bank credit to
any extent desired by a Govern-
ment undersupplied with loan-
money.
The failings of the banking
system are due to this conflict.
The remedy is to discipline the
Treasury, not to change the sys-
tem. The R.B. is under no
illusions about Kelliher’s system,
which has been analysed by its
experts and been found wanting.
The proper people to lend the
“abundant supply of money in
existence,” .mainly on current
account, are not the banks, which
are the custodians of the funds,
but the depositors, who can
draw them out at any time. If
they don’t find pegged interest-
rates for Government, local and
other loans attractive the solu-
tion is to raise the rates.
Sheltered Manufacturers
Coddled N.Z. clothing-manu-
facturers and unionists have
lived for so long behind tight
import control —except for the
brief import boom in 1951-52
that they shrink from the thought
of ever facing up to competition
again, and are clinging tenaci-
ously to the monopoly which
they hate to think they might
soon lose. When they learnt in
July that the door would be
opened next year for limited
supplies of women’s and girls’
outer garments, shirts, pyjamas,
hats and millinery and a few
other items there was an im-
mediate howl of protest, on the
principle of squeal before you’re
hurt. This attitude is fairly
general in Maoriland industry
today.
Farmers, who are traditionally
Free-trade in policy and out-
look, condemn this economic
nationalism as one of the root
causes of inflation, and say N.Z.
is paying too high a price for its
easy way of life. J. Andrew,
president of Federated Farmers,
who has called for a national
stocktaking, says:
“This idea of mercantilism,
making work or keeping money
in the country, is widespread.
We don’t allow things to be
imported if anything like them,
or remotely resembling them, is
manufactured here. There is
too much hankering after physi-
cal controls.”
It has been plain for years
that N.Z. hasn’t been getting
full value out of capital invested
in its manufacturing enter-
prises, taken as a whole. The
equipment is costly, and isn t
used to capacity. For social and
not economic reasons, the work-
ing week is limited to 40 hours,
with generous tea-breaks and
an annual closedown of nearly
three weeks for the Christinas
and New Year holidays. Shifts
are rarely worked, and if staffs
put in overtime the pay is at a
rate which lifts costs further. So
Maoriland doesn’t get the return
from its equipment that it
should, certainly not as much as
other countries do. The extra
leisure isn’t compensated for by
higher unit output while men
and women are on the job, and
takes toll in lower technical
efficiency and higher capital
overheads.
A country scratching for
capital can’t afford to carry on
in this easygoing manner. If
N.Z. is determined to raise its
living standards it will have to
become more capital-conscious
and more thrifty. It will also
have to brace itself for sterner
competition, which is, after all,
the only read spur to efficiency,
economy and progress.


A Group of Experts to Manage
dfg
YOUR ESTATE
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are_ far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way {Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
( Vice-Chairman ).
A. E. Bond. J. R. FavielU
E. B. Fleming. G. B. Kater,
Manager ; N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland,
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewart ,
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Prestige, Ltd.
(and Subsidiaries)*
d C - : —dividends To Re- Re-
RrMit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.f
1950.. 85,948 8& 6 121p.c.= 48,711 37,287 71L737
Revaluation assets. £190.116 .. 901,853
Reserves capitalised, £194.994 .. 706,859
hhare premiums, £139 net .. .. 706,998
Profit sale assets, £2285 .. .. 709,283
mui S. additions. £42,599 .. 751,882
19oi. 122,259 8& 5 10 p.c. = 57,243 65,016 816,898
Bfiare premiums, £80,935 .. 897,833
Profit sale assets, £10,591 .. .. 908,424
Add sundry adjustments, £27,894 936,318
io outside interests, £10,982 .. 925.336
Loss.
1952.. 65,062 8& 5 5 p.e. = 46,762 813,512
Snare premiums, £7,588 .. 821,100
Ret addition reserves, £12,578 .. 833.678
Profit. *
i 9 8 &5 7i p.c. = 70,892 69,728 903,406
Alt6 i “Hjßnarahg outside shareholders’ interests.
T subject to intangibles, now £11,201.
board attributes last term’s remark-
able recovery in net earnings almost en-
tirely to (a) installation of modern labor-
saying plant, and ( b ) the co-operative
spirit engendered between management
and employees. Amplifying the claim
the chairman says:
The board decided in the early post-war
years that the best method of offsetting
cost-inflation would be progressive replace-
ment of obsolete pre-war plant with modern
high-enficiency plant. This plan was put
into operation, but dollar shortage and
protracted deliveries resulted in only limited
benefits in earlier years.
It has been a very efficient organisation
from the start, 31 years ago, with the
emphasis always on quality, style and
value, which have their roots in plant
and managerial efficiency. The parent,
whose factory is at Brunswick (Vic.), is
one of Australia’s leading producers of
high-grade women’s hosiery and lingerie.
And for the 26 years to the close of
accounts in 1951 it never failed to pay a
div., average for the period being a shade
over 11 p.c.
The trouble in 1952 occurred in two of
the subsidiaries. Prestige Fabrics, Ltd.,
at Ararat (Vic.), which spins worsted
yarns and weaves fine woollen and rayon
fabrics, and Dapco Pty., at St. Mary’s
(N.S.W.), which was in the roller- and
screen-printing section of the trade. These
two cosi recorded losses for that year of
£161,266 and £23,424 respectively, as
against an overall loss of £65,062 for
the entire group. Obviously the parent
and other offshoots earned a satisfactory
profit. The Dapco business was absorbed
by another subsidiary, Dyecraft, Ltd.,
which operates textile-finishing, -printing
and -dyeing plants at Brunswick and
Bacchus Marsh (Vic.). Also, last term
the parent took over the conversion sec-
tion of the Fabrics co,, whose financial
position was thus greatly strengthened.
Nevertheless, the Fabrics co. (paid 1
capital £500,000, of which £lOO,OOO carries
a cumulative 5 p.c.) recorded a loss of
£49,509 for the year to March 31 last,
due mainly to restricted production, rela-
tively heavy overhead and need to reduce
stocks at cut prices. The loss raised the
deficit on capital account to £182,105.
The other principal subsidiary. Prestige
(N.Z.), Ltd., leading hosiery-producer in
the Dominion, has been a steady 10 per-
center for some time. Its latest accounts
are not yet available, but it sent along a
special div. of £62,000 last term. Its paid
capital is £200,000, of which £30,000 is
6 p.c. pref. money.
The parent co. made splendid showing.
Omitting dividends for subsidiary and
other cos., its net trading profit was
£122,065 as against £45,171 for the previ-
ous year. Increased turnover, as well
as plant and other efficiency, contributed
to the improvement. Australian average
monthly production of women’s hosiery
was 128,500 dozen pairs for the year to
mid-1952, and 153,200 dozen pairs for the
11 months to May 31, 1953.
After setting aside £94,965 (up £11,473)
for depreciation, £134,547 (up £39,244)
for taxation and allowing for the loss
made by the Fabrics co., the group as a
whole showed a profit of £140,620 as
against a loss of £65,062 for the previous
term. The £140,620 covered pref. re-
quirements (£18,244) and 17.4 p.c. on ord.
capital. But the cautious board added
only 2% points to the div., making it 1\
p.c,, leaving approximately half the year’s
net earnings in the business. It was a
very heartening performance considering
the rise in wage and all other costs,
sharpening of competition, and the fact
that selling-prices for the parent’s main
line (nylon hosiery) were not increased.
The financial structure was brought
into better balance;
Prestige and Subsidiaries.
„ 1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £827,982 £989,862 £1,005,028
Outside interests.. 214,778 216,187 218,677
Loan . . ~ 485,000 560,000 525,000
Overdraft .. 675,770 849,284 330,854
Creditors .. 417,040 205,787 272,781
Taxation .. .. 88,759 108,567 181,480
Final divs. .. 47,778 29,969 47,212
Freeholds .. 668,618 698,966 • 695,774
Plant •• .. 981,562 1,053,213 1,101,882
Shares .. .. 40,696 25,980 65,980
Stocks .. .. 1,585,385 1,757,545 1,386,468
Debtors .. .. 245,053 224,221 213,474
Cash, etc. .. 35,271 1,032 5,109
Intangibles, etc.*. 17,420 11,201 11,201
* Includes excess cost over par value of shares held.
The overdraft was reduced by £518,430
and loans by £35,000. Stocks werd
lowered by £371,077 and debtors’ balances
by £10,747, while £66,944 was added
to the creditors item. The improvement
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£247,774, excluding shareholdings) was
£18,583, despite additions totalling
£88,169 to plant and shareholdings.
With things as they are the Fabrics
co. is expected to show a profit for the
current term, and there is nothing to sug-
gest that earnings of other units of the
group are likely to contract.
At 6s. Bd. (ss. 9d. a year ago) the
ss. ords. return 5.6 p.c. on a p.c. div.
basis. The £1 5 p.c. prefs. at 17s. 9d.
also yield 5.6 p.c. The 8 percents seldom
appear on ’Change. Net tangible cover
is £6 ss. 2d. prefs. (both lots rank equally
for capital) and 11s. 4d. ords.
Macßobertson (Aust.), Ltd.
(and Subsidiaries)!
, Dividends ■,
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 5 p.c. 4-i p.c. serves, serves.*
£f £> £> £ £>
1950.. 159,599 6,513 73,265 80,821 642,750
Tax overprovided, £10,949 .. .. 658,699
Unexplained additions, £6764 .. 660,463
8 p.c.
1951.. 195,724 15,000 137,912 42, 1 812 703,275
Tax underprovided, £3241 .. .. 700,034
Unexplained deductions, £4439 .. 695,595
7 p.c.
1952.. 179,615 15,000 120,672 43,943 739,538
f After deducting outside interests.
•After deducting intangibles, £888,559 at
81/12/’52.
The public became interested in this
big chocolate-, confectionery- and cocoa-,
etc., -manufacturing and -distributing
organisation in June, 1950, when the
present holding co. was formed to
acquire all the shares in the then 70-
year-old Macßobertson business. The
foundations of the undertaking were laid
in 1880 by Macpherson Robertson, a
native of Ballarat, who set up in the
confectionery trade in a small way at
Fitzroy, near Melbourne, In 1921 the
business was registered as a proprietary
co. with a paid capital of £864,700. The
founder, who had been twice knighted,
died in 1945. Control of the organisa-
tion has since remained largely in the
hands of members of the family and
others who grew up in the business.
The holding co. exchanged 3,400,000
of its f.-p. 10s. ords. for 1,027,203 f.-p.
£1 shares in Macßobertson Pty., Ltd.,
whose net tangible assets totalled
£2,310,005. The proprietary had pre-
viously reorganised its capital account.
Fixed assets and shareholdings were re-
valued and £239,000-odd of other inner
reserves were disclosed. The revaluation
showed a surplus over book-values of
£903,500, of which £618,769 was
taken into account. Of the latter figure
£302,999 was used to write-down good-
will, reducing it to £200,000, and £200,000
was earmarked as a special stock reserve.
To provide additional working capital
the holding co, offered the public 300,000
new £1 5 p.c. cum. prefs. at par. To
widen the spread of ord. capital, and
qualify for Stock Exchange listing, those
on the register sold 850,000 of their 10s.
shares at a premium of 16s. each, plus
brokerage. The holding co. thus kicked
off with a paid capital of £2,000,750,
which has since grown to £2,023,882 by
purchase of minority interests in a sub-
sidiary.
Operating units of the group, and the
holding co.’s interest thereim (direct and
indirect), are:
Holding
Paid Oo.’s
Company. Capital. Interest.
Macßobertson Pty., Ltd. .. £1,027,203 100 p.c.
Macßobertson (N.S.W.) Pty. 75,007 100 „
Macßobertson (Q’land) Pty. 50,000 100 „
Macßobertson (W.A.) Pty. 20,000 100 „
Macßobertson (S.A.) Pty... 19,122 100 „
Colorprint Pty. .. '.. 100,000 100 „
Macßobertson-Miller Aviation
Co. 51,991 62 „
Lifeguard Milk Products .. 275,000 15.7„
Maize Products Pty. ~ 717,958 22.9.,
Life Savers (Aust.) .. 146,795 25.1„
Waxed Paper Pty 60,002 50 „
Aust. Licorice Pty. .. .. 60,631 18.1„
First two in the list are manufacturing
concerns, the next three distributors only.
Colorprint turns out the cartons, wrap-
pings, etc., used by the group and others.
The aviation’ co. operates in Western and
North-Western Australia. And there are
overseas agencies extending from Egypt
to Japan, out over the Pacific islands, and
to the West Indies.
After eliminating outside interests and
allowing for taxation on a public-cb.
basis, net earnings of the group for the
five years to Dec. 31, 1949, were:
Dec. 31, Amount. I Dec. 31. Amount.
1945.. £153,549 | 1948., £233,191
1946.. 176,061 I 1949., 209,824
1947.. 152,225 (
From that point the introductory table
takes up the story. The 1950 profit, hit
by rising costs, was for a full year, but
the 4\ p.c. div. was for the last half only.
Turnover continued to expand and
profits benefited in 1952, but owing to
market trends and a heavy load of stocks
the div. was reduced a fraction to 8 p.c.
Last term turnover shrank, despite lifts
in selling-prices, competition sharpened,
prices for cocoa-beans, sugar, glucose
and milk, etc., rose, and so did wage
and other costs. Also, owing to
factor, the co. lost part of its export
After allowing £98,694 (down
£20,078) for depreciation and £155,500
(down £50,891) for taxation, the net
result was £16,109 lighter at £179,615
a satisfactory showing all things con-
sidered. The £179,615 covered the pref.
div. and 9.5 p.c. on ord. capital as against
10.5 p.c. for the previous term. A point
was chipped off the div., reducing it to
7 p.c., of which 5£ p.c. was tax-free.
Whether ord. divs. will be paid partly
or wholly from tax-free reserves (now
£320,104) in the future will depend upon
available profits and prevailing condi-
tions, the chairman says. When the books
closed reserves stood at £739,538 in excess
of intangibles (£888,559).
Principal balance-sheet movements
were reduction in stocks (down £544,765),
the overdraft (down £150,531) and the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.
(down £488,204):
Consolidated Figures
1960. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital—y
Preference .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ordinary .. 1,700,750 1,723,882 1,723,882
Outside interests.. 43,754 50,097 49,824
Proposed div. .. 78,265 68,956 68,956
Bank loan .. 200,000 200,000 200,000
Overdrafts .. 408,066 586,539 436,008
Creditors, etc. ~ 1,177,872 1,098,026 609,821
Tax provision .. 268.260 388,318 362,249
Freeholds and lease-
holds . . .. 495,391 500,284 488,765
Plant, etc. .. 962,976 977,475 1,042,663
Shares other cos. 846,554 841,917 335,069
Stocks . . .. 2,439,351 2,728,184 2,178,369
Debtors .. .. 427,079 495,478 419,634
Cash and Govt. *
bonds .. .. 143,366 25,804 25,779
On plant, which is reported highly
efficient, £65,158 more was spent than
was written off. The contraction in
debtors’ balances (down £75,844) reflects
difficult trading conditions. Excluding
shareholdings, more or less liquids ex-
ceeded current liabilities by £946,748
when the books were ruled off.
Since the close of accounts turnover
has strengthened, and the co. has
arranged with John Mackintosh and Sons
(London) to manufacture and market
locally the principal products of the over-
seas co., which will supply plant, for-
mulae and technical assistance. “Con-
siderable” benefit is expected from this
agreement, and from a new line of choco-
late which the co. recently put on the
market.
At 12s. the f.-p. 10s. shares return 5.8
p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. The £1 prefs.
at 18s. 6d. yield 5.4 p.c. Net tangible
cover is £9 4s. 3d. prefs. and 14s. 3d.
ords.
Swan Brewery Co., Ltd. (W.A.)
(and Subsidiaries)
< Dividends :—.
Year Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar. Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, semes.t
31. £ £ p.c. £ £ £
Unexplained addition, £14,577 .. 2,093,858
1960.. 226.792 3000 25 = 195,303 28,489 2,122,347
Revaluation assets, £1,434,543 .. 3,556,890
Share premiums, £311,320 .. 3,868,210
Unexplained addition, £57,204 .. 3,925,414
1951.. 3000 25 = 206,912 35,109 3,960,523
Reserves capitalised, £1,716,268 .. 2,244,255
Unexplained addition, £62,204 .. 2,306,459
1952.. 3000 7.5 = 193.186 2,269,075
Unexplained addition, £170,238 .. 2,439,313
1953.. 3000 8.3 = 214,651 56,096 2,495,409
* After eliminating outside interests. t
t Excludes depreciation reserve, £736,277 at
31/3/’53.
Ever since the discoveries of Ford,
Bayley and Hannan started a rush of
thirsty people to the Coolgardie gold-
fields in the 1890’s, this co. has enjoyed
a lion’s share of the trade in Westralia.
Purchase of Castlemaine Brewery, Ltd.
(Fremantle) in 1927 and of Emu Brewery,
Ltd. (Perth) in the following year and
of an S3} p.c. interest in Kalgoorlie
Brewing and Ice Co., Ltd., in 1945 has
now given it virtually a monopoly. Also it
has kept on buying up hotel freeholds,
thus making it difficult for effective com-
petition to raise its head. And con-
sumption of beer per head of popula-
tion in Westralia is well above the aver-
age for the ’ Commonwealth.
Those on the ord, register have had a
royal time. For nearly 20 years to
1911 divs. ranged from 24 p.c. to 32 p.c.
Then the rate dropped to 16 p.c., follow-
ing transfer of £101,450 from reserves
to capital account, and remained steady,
sweetened with 4 p.c. bonuses in the
fattest periods, until slump brought the
rate back to 14 p.c. in 1932. For the
next seven years distributions averaged
22 p.c. In 1941 a further £170,156 of
reserves was capitalised, and for the next
11 years divs. averaged 24.2 p.c.
In 1951 assets (mainly hotel free-
holds) were revalued and written up
in the books by £1,434,543, and
a reserve of like amount was
created. In the following year share-
holders were doubly rewarded, firstly
with a cash issue of 311,320 ss. shares at
a premium of 20s. each, and then with
a two-for-orib bonus-share issue, to meet
which the revaluation and other reserves
were tapped for £1,716,268. That lifted
paid capital to £2,265,813 in 50,000 £1
6 p.c. cum. prefs. and the balance in ss.
ords. So, although the div. dropped
from 25 p.c. in 1951 to 7.5 p.c. in 1952,
the lower rate- was equal to 22.5 p.c. on
ord. capital as it Stood immediately before
the big gift-issue just mentioned.
Profits are the amounts claimed in the
p. and 1. account, after eliminating out-
side shareholders’ interests. And there
has been more wheat in the ear than the
eye could thus see, as the large unex-
plained additions to reserves (interlined
in the table) indicate. The contraction in
net earnings in the 1952, term was due to
a combination of events, mainly sluggish
increase in turnover, sharp rise in costs
of raw materials, production and


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Public Notice*
I, ANDRONIKI ANTONIOU CHATZI-
ARGIRIS. of Greek Nationality, born at
Oastelorizo. Greece, resident seven years in
Australia, now residing at 3 Pellican St.,
Darlinghurst, intend to apply for Naturali-
zation under the Nationality and Citizen-
ship Act, 1948-1952.
T, EFTHALIA TRIANTAFILLIDOU, of
Greek nationality, born Magnesia, Asia
Minor, and resident in Australia 54
years, now residing at 112 Todman
Avenue, Kensington, intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948-1952.
Rapid Magnetic Machines Ltd.
ENGIAHD
Manufacturers of: —
Rapid Magnetic Separators for feebly Magnetic Ores,
Magnetic Drum Type Overband and Chute Separators,
also Heavy-duty Lifting Magnets and Transmission
Equipment, etc.
Send for Bulletins
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
GUTHRID6E Pty. Limited.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
We manufacture the “Curvilinear **■ Ore
Concentrating Table, etc.
:
: .xV*
ifc&ji
mm
«}<!»»•**
wm
> . '<>
mm
INVEST
WHILE
INTEREST
RATES
ARE
PROFIT
by the
POWER LOAK!
Invested in the Power Loan
for 10 years, £lOO becomes
£147/10/-; £5OO multiplies
to £737/10/-; £7OO to
£1,032/10/-. You can invest
your money at this high rate of
interest for 10, 15 or 25 years
—just as you wish.
The Electricity Commis-
sion Power Loan is an
authorised Trustee In-
vestment in N.S.W.,
Queensland and Vic-
toria, and is guaran-
teed by the Government
of N.S.W. The interest
rate is j£4/15/- PER
CENT —the highest in-
terest offered for public
semi-Government Loans
in 20 years.
The Loan offers a valu-
able money-making
opportunity to holders
of savings bank or
current accounts.
Compare the earnings
in the Savings Bank*
in fen years
£lOO earns £22 10
£5OO earns £ll2 10
£7OO earns £137 10
£l,OOO earns £175 0
in the Power Loan*
in ten years v
£lOO earns £47 10
£5OO earns £237 10
£7OO earns £332 10
£l,OOO earns £475 0
♦ /Vote: Figures calculated on simple interest only•
Apply: Any office of Commonwealth Bank, any Member
of The Stock Exchange, or at the offices of the Electricity
Cotnjnission, 15 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ELECTRICITY COMMISSION OF N.S.W.
4 3 /4% Power Loan
Underwritten by J. B. Were & Son.
POL24-5B
distribution, etc., and lag in the
lift in selling-prices, which are
controlled.
Australian production of beer
increased by 11.5 p.c. for the
year to June 30, 1951, by 6.3 p.c.
for the following year, and for
the 10 months to April, 1953 (last
figures available), the growth was
at the rate of 8.4 p.c. p.a. Dur-
ing the 12 months covered by
the co.’s latest accounts costs
continued to rise, but an adjust-
ment of selling-prices softened
the blow. After allowing £97,799
(up £10,333) for depreciation,
whatever was considered neces-
sary for taxation, etc., and drop-
ping £170,238 from somewhere
into reserves, the profit claimed
was £102,356 stronger at
£273,747. That was enough to
pay the pref. div. and show
10.5 p.c. on the £2,572,813 of
ord. capital compared with
6.5 p.c. for the previous year
The div. was lifted from 7.5 p.c.
to 8.3 p.c., and the £56,096 that
remained raised reserves to
£2,495,409. In addition there
is a depreciation reserve of
£736,277, some of which might
be genuine profit.
Balance-sheet figures mainly
reflect the modernisation of plant
and improvements and exten-
sions to hotel properties;
Consolidated Figures.
1952. 1958.
Paid capital .. £2,625,813 £2,625,818
Outside interests. . 26,496 30,174
Depreciation res. 640,286 736,277
Mortgages.. .. 47,753 47,758
Tax provision j M 7 1 272,768
Creditors, etc. ( 627 ’ b80 1 491.046
Final divs. . . 108,826 130,291
Freeholds .. .. 3,729,584 3,876,323
Plant, etc. . . 1,522,031 1,831,412
Stock . . .. 493,681 544,247
Debtors .. .. 407,797 810,749
Cash, etc. .. 192,836 266,789
Freeholds increased by £146,744
and plant, etc., by £309,381.
The growth in stocks (up
£50,566) was due mainly to
higher prices for raw materials.
The addition to the outside debt,
including tax provision, was
£136,129.
As for the current term, the
immediate outlook favors
further improvement in earn-
ings ; and a little relief from the
heavy burden of taxation is
promised—last term the group
paid the Government over
£6,400,000 in excise, co. tax and
other levies.
The- market, which likes the
co.’s long-term prospects, prices
the f.-p. ss. ords. at 10s. 6d. to
return 3.9 p.c. on an 8| p.c. div.
basis. The investor who looks
for 4.8 p.c. on his money counts
on the div. rising to 10 p.c. Net
tangible cover (excluding depre-
ciation reserve) is 9s. lOd. a
share. The well-protected prefs.
at 30s. 3d. yield 4 p.c.
Hill 50 Extended, NX.
This prospecting and develop-
ment co. is on the stocks in Mel-
bourne with a nominal capital of
£250,000 in ss. shares, of which
500,000 are offered, payable
Is. 6d. application, allotment
and first call, which is to
immediately follow allotment.
The balance of 3s. 6d. a share is
to be asked for as and when
required. There are no founder’s
or promoter’s shares. The issue
has been underwritten by
Leonard G. May (Melbourne)
and Shaw, Reid and Cambridge
(Perth).
The co. will thus kick off with
a paid capital of £37,500, of
which preliminary exes, (includ-
ing brokerage of Hd. per share)
will take £4500, and vendor’s
consideration for leases (£1500)
and plant (£9500) £ll,OOO, leav-
ing £22,000 for working capital.
The co. is to take over from
the Boogardie Syndicate options
over half a dozen leases adjoin-
ing those of Hill 50, at Mt.
Magnet (W.A.) —five on the
south and one to the north-east.
The consideration is £l5OO cash,
plus 100,000 f.-p. ss, shares in the
present co. should any or all of
the options be exercised.
The intention is to test-drill the
leases, and, should any be found
promising enough, to form an
operating co. to develop and
work the prospect. Morton
Webber (recently underground-
manager of Lake View and Star)
says workings on the leases are
shallow and furnish only super-
ficial evidence, but indicate
about 2500 ft. of ore-channel that
could justify drilling.
He adds that since the surface-
rock structure is similar to that
on the Hill 50 leases, and since
the ore-deposition is probably
of coincident period, persist-
ence of profitable ore with depth
is a reasonable expectation. Dr.
M. D. Garretty concurs with
Mr. Webber’s opinions, and also
considers the leases worth test-
ing in the hope of disclosing sub-
stantial ore of payable grade.
On tlje board are A. H. P.
Moline, L. G. May, K. W. Craig
and W. E. Munro.
Chairman of Pato Consoli-
dated Gold Dredging, Ltd.,(B.
1/7/’53) estimates that, with
gold at $35 U.S. per fine ounce,
the value of the co.’s production
for 1953 and 1954 is expected to
continue at about the same level
as for 1952. In 1955 the figure
is expected to drop to around
$4,600,000, and to $3,000,000 fbr
1958. By then it is anticipated
that gravel reserves will have
been reduced to around
170,000,000-c.y., worth on the
average 17.5 cents a yard, and
the small and shallow dredges
will have closed down, leaving
the three large-capacity deep-
digging machines (together they
should handle about 14,000,000
c.y. p.a.) to complete the job.
All this is apart from the adjoin-
ing Nechi property now in the
process of being taken over. The
recent change in the Presidency in
Colombia (S. America) is not ex-
pected to adversely affect the
co.’s operations. The “economic
condition of the country appears
to be very sound,” and banditry
in the Nechi River valley, where
the co.’s operations extend for
a distance of some 40 miles, has
been brought largely under
control. For the five months to
May 31 last Pato treated
6,597,400 c.y. for 65,2960 z.
fine gold, average value being
34.64 cents a yard. Pato’s f.-p.
$1 shares recently fetched
31s 3d. on the Australian
market.


SYDNEY
Women's Letters
Clear, sunny days, wonderful sunsets
and the other night a rainbow round the
moon have made this Sydney July a
magic month. The late Professor
J. le Gay Brereton once wrote a little
poem about July in which he asked
„ “Whose dull ear can fail to hear, afar
the fluting of the spring?” Not the New
Australians, at any rate, who cannot
believe that this is midwinter. Mean-
while the thoughts of the more light-
minded among us turn to new clothes,
barbecues and beaches.
The clothes really do set a problem.
Whether to choose the matchbox jacket-
suit and chance looking like a barrel, or
to go in for the tulip-line and resemble
an outsize clothes-peg, needs close
thought. The boneless line of the 1920’s
is also rearing its ugly head, but is
scarcely an escape from the ✓dilemma.
But one more thing that July brings us
is the recurring hope that in August the
mannequin-parades will show us some
more kindly line, something that will
miraculously combine the smart with the
comfortable and the becoming.
☆ ☆ ☆
There were interesting musical events
during the week. The National Opera
Company presented the world premiere
of John Antill’s opera “Endymion,”
which seemed rather cold and remote
to this Letter, but was quite enjoyed by
many who were present on the first night.
The Deputy-Lord Mayor and Mrs. Green
were there, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Moses,
the C. R. McKerihans, the Norman
Jenkyns, the Walter Bunnings, the John
McDowells. Mrs. Erik Langker wore
black organza, Mrs, C. T. Lorenz pale-
blue tulle embroidered with opalescent
sequins. Admired were Miss Doris
Fitton’s brilliant star-burst earrings and
her dark-red ballerina dress. Accom-
panying her was Melbourne’s Frank
Thring, over in Sydney for a week.
* ☆ *
The foyer of the Town Hall with its
lovely parquet floor and brilliant chan-
delier is a delightful place for a musicale,
the only disturbing factor being the clock
which chimes each quarter-hour; but
even this did not distract the 300 people
who came along on Thursday to the
musicale organised by Mrs, W. Hope
Gibson in aid of the Lady Mayoress’s
Relief Fund. Clive Amadio, James
Wilson, Alan Jenkyn, Olga Krasnik,
Gwyn Aldis and the two charming
Kolos sisters, Lily and Olga (dressed in
Czechoslovakian costume), were the
artists. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. P. D.
Halls, who had presented orchid-posies
to the women artists and to Mrs. Hope
Gibson, entertained all the guests to
afternoon-tea in the Hall after the
musicale, and the afternoon was voted a
- thoroughly enjoyable one.
☆ ☆ ☆
Another highly successful musicale
held during the week was that of the
Manly Musical Society, which inaugu-
rated its ninth season. Guests-of-honor
were Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Lashmar, and
welcoming the 400 who came to hear
music from soprano Angelina Arena,
pianist Olga Krasnik and Clive Amadio
were the new president of the society,
Alderman James Anderson, and Mrs.
Anderson. Present also were the
Mayoress of Manly, Mrs. J. Brown, Mrs.
H. Twigden, who has been reappointed
musical director for the ninth year in
succession, and a new member of the
society, Dr. Victor Bell.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Alec Morgan, of Fairbanks, Kirri-
billi, entertained during the week Mel-
bourne visitors Mrs. R. W. Tovell, wife
of Brigadier R. W. Tovell, M.L.A., of
Brighton (Vic.),- and Miss Ann Tovell,
who were passing through Sydney briefly*
after a six weeks’ tour of Australia which
took in Adelaide, Alice Springs, Darwin,
Cairns and Brisbane —a round trip which
gave glimpses of nearly every aspect of
Australian life,
☆ ☆ ☆
The passing of Mrs. M, J. Stewart, of
Minnamurra House, Jamberoo, must
have recalled to many of Australia’s
painters, writers and musicians the hos-
pitality for which in days past her home
was noted. The house itself has historic
associations, having been built in the
1840’s for Dr. Menzies, the first medical
man on the South Coast. Mrs.
Stewart’s guests will remember the many
famous and distinguished people they
have met there—the late Dr, Wright,
Archbishop of Sydney, and his sister;
W. A, Holman, when Premier of N.S.W.;
Miss Lilian Frost, organist at Pitt-street
Congregational Church; artists G. K.
Townshend and John Eldershaw, and
many more who shared in the warm
hospitality of the home.
This is Jill Crichton, of Lane Cove,
the first woman diplomat to be
appointed to the Australian Consulate
General in Geneva. Jill, who was
educated at North Sydney Girls’ High
School, has had a brilliant academic
career, having graduated from Sydney
University with first-class honors in
history and philosophy, and was first
president of the University Arts Council.
She left Sydney last Sunday week by the
Surriento to take up her appointment.
Photo by Hugh Spencer.
A distinctive feature of the receptions
held by the Ladies’ Auxiliary of the
Sydney Symphony Orchestral Committee
is the flower-arrangements in passages
and rooms of the Royal Empire Society.
Last week at the reception to Dr.
Schmidt-lsserstedt, the distinguished Ger-
man conductor, an enormous bowl of
Australian wildflowers which had been
arranged by Miss Margery Chartres
dominated the room. In the hall were
double-poinsettias and a pale-mauve
fluffy flower identified by Mrs. Arthur
Davis as moschosma. From Mrs. Davis’s
garden had come a sweet-scented flower
very like pink spring-blossom called
dombeya, and there were some really
beautiful double-camellias. Mrs. Hope
Gibson received the guests, assisted by
Mrs. A. H. Chartres and Mrs. Edgar
Bainton.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the women golfers who is
coming to Australia in September for
the Ampol tournament is Mrs. Jackie
Pung, who is 15 stone and likes it that
way. Once she went into training and
lost 501 b., but, she says, “I got weak and
couldn’t hit my old distances, so back
I went to eating everything I fancied and
I was pretty soon in shape.” This is
rather comforting to those of us who
don’t like dieting, but unfortunately she
doesn’t say what shape. Well have to
wait till September to see that.
☆ ☆ ☆
Joan Nicol’s mother and father came
from Brisbane to attend the party given
on Friday by Mr, and Mrs. E. A.
Coghlan at which Joan’s engagement to
John Coghlan was celebrated. The party,
at the Coghlans’ home in Wallaroy-
crescent, Double Bay, began at six and
went on magnificently until—well, until
long after the luncheon adjournment at
Leeds. Joan, an air-hostess, was toasted
by several other air-lasses who had just
alighted from flights between inter-State
capitals.
☆ ☆ ☆
A cute new idea—pearl-buttons which
are attached to snap-fasteners and
can be taken off easily for washing or
dry-cleaning, (Is there anything more
wearisome than taking off buttons and
sewing them on again?) The manu-
facturer suggests that would make
fascinating hair-decorations for ’teen-
agers, as they could be' clipped on a
plain ribbon and changed to mix or
match with evening frocks. Another
bright idea was shown by a Sydney girl
who used these pearl press-studs in pink
to form her initials on the front of a
black sleeveless linen blouse with a flow-
ing rose-pink skirt.
MELBOURNE
An enthusiastic audience at Her
Majesty’s forced the curtain up again
and again at the triumphant conclusion
of the Stratford Players’ presentation of
“Henry IV.” Sharing in the triumph was
Adelaide’s Keith Michell, who played
Hotspur.
In the first-night dressing the short
evening frock was more popular than the
formal evening gown. Mrs. Anthony
Quayle was a devotee of the short
fashion j her frock being of cream guipure
lace and satin ; Ming-blue satin sandals to
match her gloves, and a silver blue mink
stole completed a lovely ensemble. Mrs,
T. T. Hollway’s attractive short frock of
American-beauty silk-jersey featured the
new harem skirt. A black quilted
ballerina skirt and dove-grey evening
sweater were the choice of Mrs. Robert
Stead, wife of the assistant-manager of
the company.
Nan Dixon’s frock, also short, was of
grey brocade patterned in a leaf design;
her swingback velvet coat was scarlet.
Black-and-gold taffeta was worn by Mrs.
Peter Condon.* Mrs. R, Noone’s short
black crepe frock carried white guipure
lace. A formal gown of silver-grey
brocade was worn by Mrs. A. G.
Smithers. Mrs. Harry Scott’s pale-lilac
crepe gown was trimmed with deep-
mauve sequins. Mrs. Alan Scott was in
olive-green velvet, Mrs. Garnet Carroll in
black velvet and silver-blue mink. Mrs.
Paul Henry’s black tulle gown had black
velvet forming a lattice design over
skirt and bodice. Black tulle, sprinkled
with gold sequins, was worn by Mrs.
Norman Spry, Mrs. Athol Shmith’s
sheath-gown was of black velvet.
Famous English ballerina Sally Gil-
mour will appear in a new medium when
she plays the title role in Hana Pravda’s
production of Strindberg’s “Miss Julie.”
Sally, who came to this country with the
Rambert ballet company, is now married
to an Australian, Dr. Alan Wynn. and has
a small son. “Miss Julie” has its gala
night on August 14, and proceeds will
be donated to Prince Henry’s Hospital,
with which Dr. Wynn is associated. The
play will run until August 22 at the
National Theatre. Tickets may be pur-
chased for the Gala Night at Prince
Henry’s Hospital, St. Kilda-road.
At the meeting of the Women’s Group
of the Australian-American Association
at Giro’s Colonel John Middleton, U,S.
Army Attache, gave a most interesting
talk on the Philippines. Accompanying
him was Mrs. Middleton, in smart black
suit and tiny white feather-cap. Presi-
dent Mrs. R. G. Casey wore with her
black suit a black felt guardsman-cap.
Among those at the meeting were Mrs.
P. J. Wolfe, a visitor from the U.S.,
Mesdames C. F. and G. Stillhouse, of
South Africa, Vice-presidents Mrs. W. W.
Killough and Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, Mrs.
Kenneth McLean, Mrs. Earl Daum, Mrs.
Charles McKay, who is president of the
American Women’s Auxiliary to the
Children’s Hospital, Mrs. Charles Lane,
Mrs. Rupert Downes, Mrs. John Mack
and Mrs. James Clark. On August 31
the association will give a luncheon at
the Royale Ballroom to American jour-
nalist Mrs. Esther Van Wagoner Tuftv
who arrives the day before and who is
going on to New Zealand for a Pr?«
conference.
*' * *
In honor of Belgium’s national day
Consul-General M. Rene Vanderkelen
entertained 150 guests at No. 9 Darling-
street, among them members of the Bel-
gian community, their friends and mem-
bers of the Consular Corps. Guests
gathered beneath Belgium’s flag to drink
the loyal toast, and during the party M
Vanderkelen invested Miss Phyllis Grace
who has been secretary to the Consulate
for almost 20 years, with the Gold Medal
of the Order of Leopold, and the former
Deputy-Consul with the Chevalier of the
Order of Leopold. Receiving guests with
M, Vanderkelen were the Belgian Con-
sular Agent, M. George Nopenaire, and
his wife. Among the guests were M and
Madame Philip Vanderkelen, M. and
Madame Peter Vanderkelen, M. and
Madame L. van Rompaey, Mr. and Mrs.
T. C. Dewez, Madame Janne Vander-
kelen, Professor and Mrs. A. Lodewycx
and Mr. C. Rosquin.
* t3r *
Melbourne Grammar School Chapel
was the setting for the marriage of
Patricia, second daughter of Mr. Thomas
Austin, Wanganella, Deniliquin, and the
late Mrs. Austin, and Peter Johansen.
The bride’s gown of magnolia satin had
crystal and pearl embroidery on bodice
and cuffs of the long, tight-fitting sleeves,
and the full skirt extended into a train.
An embroidered satin cap held in place
the magnolia tulle veil and she carried
a trail of cream orchids. The three
bridesmaids, the bride’s sister Joyce, her
step-sister Jane Gavan-Duffy and the
’groom’s cousin Patricia Johansen, were
dressed alike in frocks of dusty-pink
velvet. The bridegroom is the only son
of Mr. and Mrs. M. K. N. Johansen of
Mildura. Reception was at the Australia.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the hat collection shown by Thomas
Harrison in his Collins-street salon, pro-
ceeds from which went to St. Vincent’s
Hospital Casualty Ward Appeal, the
emphasis was on tiny, close-fitting shapes,
many of them of the flat, platter variety.
The vogue this spring is to show the
back of the head and a short hair-do.
The new trend is to mix fabrics and to
contrast colors, rather than rely on trim-
mings for effects. Black (always a leading
color in Paris) and white lead the way.
Red, well in the picture, is often allied
with pink. Blues are popular: aqua-
marine, cornflower, delphinium and blues
with a purple tint. Leghorns, felts, linen,
grosgrain and lace fashioned many of
the hats, which were elegant but simple.
There were mushroom shapes, and
ostrich-feathers were used to dramatise
large hats for races or garden-parties.
There is less embroidery than of yore.
A glittering brooch or straw flowers
embroidered on the brim or crown is the
only touch. Worn squarely on the head
was a small flat double-crowned hat of
white linen, white-, black- and yellow-
striped cotton making a fascinating
swathed turban. A pink rose was set
at the side of a tiny white waffle-pique
beret which carried fine veiling. A larger
hat of black silk crinoline-straw was
subtly swathed in swirls on the crown.
Navy-and-red straw floral-motifs trimmed
a close-fitting cap in white linen, a mush-
room-shaped hat of aquamarine-blue
Chantilly lace had quite a waterfall of
lace at one side. Three-hats-in-one was
of black velvet. The large brim removed,
there was a small close-fitting cap for
cocktail wear. Off came the cap and
on went the brim to form a crownless
hat. White ostrich feathers were swathed
diagonally on the brim of a white crino-
line-straw picture-hat. A champagne
beige fine grosgrain picture-hat had a
fluted brim.
☆ ☆ ☆
Presswomen were / guests at the
luncheon given at Moonee Valley by the
wife of the Chairman of the M.V. Racing
Club, Lady Burston, Mrs. W. S. Cox,
wife of the secretary, and wives of com-
mitteemen, Lady Burston allied smart
black tailored suit and small snuff-brown
cloche. Mrs. Cox topped her black suit
with a garnet-red velvet cap. Guests
included Mrs. A. G. Hunter, Mrs. Theo
Brunsting, wife of the Dutch Naval
Attache, Mrs. John Middleton, wife of
the U.S. Army Attache, who contrasted
her black suit with an upturned Breton
sailor hat in American-beauty felt; Mrs.
Randolph Burgoyne in tiny cloche of
dove-grey satin and black suit; Mrs. M.
Sallman, whose grey suit featured a
nipped-in jacket and was worn with a
tiny almond-green cap.


BALANCE SHEET OF
THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
As at Close of Business on 30th June, 1953
LIABILITIES
Authorised Capital—
-300,000 Preference Shares of £lO each
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10s. each ..
Issued and Fully Paid Capital—
-211,735 Preference Stock Units of £lO
per Unit
4,000,000 Ordinary Stock Units of 10s.
per Unit
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund (used in the business of
the Bank)
Pinal Dividends proposed payable
August, 1953
Balance of Profit and Loss A/c.
Total Stockholders’ Funds
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other Liabilities, including
provisions for Taxation and Contingencies
Notes in Circulation
Balances due to Other Banks
Amount due to Subsidiary Company ..
Contingent Liabilities (as per contra in regard to
obligations of Customers and others on Letters of
Credit, Drafts, Guarantees, &c.)
£6,689,479 0 4
177,282,772 6 2
5,102 0 0
23,567 19 10
100 0 0
£184,001,021 6 4
7,617,914 10 3
£191,618,935 16 7
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve Bank of New
Zealand Notes and Cash at Bankers .. .. .. £17,312,983 16 6
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks .. 4,447,217 2 9
Balances with and due from Other Banks 135,736 1 4
Money at Short Call in London 1,750,000 0 0
Treasury Bills—
* Australian Government 4,000,000 0 0
Public Securities (at or under market value) —
Australian Government £16,334,556 1 9
Other Government .. .. .. 1,196,156 5 8
Local and Semi - Governmental
Authorities .. 560.145 10
Special Account with Coihmonwealth Bank of Australia
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit ..
Stamps .. .. ..
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting
provision for Debts considered Bad or Doubtful) ..
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites (at cost less amounts
written off)
Shares in wholly-owned Subsidiary Company (at cost).
(The Subsidiary Company has not traded at any
time, and has made neither Profit nor Loss; its
only Asset is a Deposit of £lOO with this Bank) ..
Liabilities of Customers and others on Letters of Credit,
Drafts, Guarantees, &c., as per contra ..
18,090,857 17 7
34,548,000 0 0
12',769,228 16 3
114,370 19 5
£93,168,394 13 10
87,388,435 1 4
3,444,091 11 2
100 0 0
£184,001,021 6 4
7,617,914 10 3
£191,618,935 16 7
(The Balance Sheet figures are stated in Australian currency)
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT IN RESPECT OF THE YEAR ENDED
30th JUNE, 1953
To Expenses—Head Office, 653 Branches and Agencies
(Including Directors’ Pees £4,500) .. .. .. £4,048,049 16 1
„ Income, Land and Other Taxes .. .. .. .. 619,931 19 9
~ Balance, being Net Profit for the Year carried down 421,345 4 i
• £5,089,327 0 5
To Amounts written off Bank Premises
„ Dividends—
Interim paid February, 1953 ..
Final, proposed payable August,
1953
~ Balance carried forward .. ..
£142,347 0 0
142,347 0 0
By Discount and Interest earned, net Exchange, Com-
missions and Other Income after deducting Interest
Paid and Accrued on Deposits, Rebate on Bills
Current at balance date and Appropriations to the
credit of Contingencies Accounts (out of which
Accounts provision for all Bad and Doubtful Dqjits
has been made)
£125,000 0 0
284,694 0 0
179,782 0 4
£589,476 0 4
£5,089,327 0 5
By Net Balance brought forward
~ Net Profit for the Year
By Balance
I, EDWARD COOK, General Manager of The Commercial Bank of
aistralia Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the Reserve
'und and accumulated profits are used in the business, and that the
ccompanying Balance Sheet and Statement of Profit and Loss ot the
lank are, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true in every particuair.
Names, addresses, and occupations of the persons who are tlie
►irectors of the Company at the date of the Statement: WILLIAM
YDNEY REID, Merchant, Melbourne; VICTOR YULE KIMPTON, Flour
Filler, Melbourne; STANLEY THOMPSON EDWARDS, Shipping Director,
Felbourne; COLIN FORSYTH MEARES, Solicitor, Melbourne; NORMAND
tILL, Wool Broker, Melbourne. . , . . ...
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
i be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament
f Victoria rendering persons making a false declaration punishable for
dlful and corrupt perjury. . nn , , „ , ,
DECLARED at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 23rd day of July,
ne thousand nine hundred and fifty-three.
Before me— ■" EDWARD COOK
H. F. CLARKE
A Commissioner for taking Declarations and
Affidavits under the “Evidence Act 1938.”
We, WILLIAM SYDNEY REID and COLIN FORSYTH MEARES, of
[elbourne, being Directors of The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited,
o hereby certify that in our opinion the foregoing Balance Sheet is true
nd correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view
f the state of the Company’s affairs, and that the Statement of Profit and
loss exhibits a true and correct view of the results of the business of
tie Company for the year. „ a
On behalf of the Board.
W. S. REID
COLIN F. MEARES
»ated at Melbourne, this 23rd day of July, 1953.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO STOCKHOLDERS
Melbourne, 23rd July, 1953.
'o the Stockholders of rTn ,„_
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
(adies and Gentlemen, _ . . „
We report that we have audited the accounts of your Bank for the
ear ended 30th June, 1953, and that in our opinion the Balance Sheet is
roperly drawn up, and exhibits a true and correct view of the state of
he Company’s affairs and that the Statement of Profit and Loss is properly
rawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the results or the
usiness of the Company for the year, according to the best of our
iformation and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books
f t Th e °Lomlon’ Office Return to the 30th June, 1953, duly audited by
lessrs. Jackson, Pixley & Co., has been submitted to us, the Assets and
iiabilitles at the Branches being taken on the Certificates of the Managers
nd every assistance from the Officers of the Bank, and
hey have supplied us with all the information and explanations we have
equired. „ ~
We are, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Yours faithfully,
E. FOOKBS
WM. S. PHILIP
Chartered Accountants (Australia).
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“The Golden Lover”
The Melbourne Little
Theatre’s Play Festival of the
works of three Australian play-
wrights started off auspiciously
with Douglas Stewart’s “The
Golden Lover.” That a play
about Maoris cast in a form as
ancient as Greek drama can live
so well is a tribute to Mr.
Stewart’s writing and observa-
tion, which is nervous and ex-
cited from start to finish; and
that it could be made to live was
a tribute to the Little Theatre.
The poetic diction never sounds
commonplace or pseudo, whether
it is put into the mouth of the
beautiful young Tawhai, sick of
her fat, humdrum hubby Rua-
rangi, or the spirit lover Whana,
or the Maori hags, or the old
witchdoctor who functions in
the part of a Greek chorus by
showing Tawhai, the naughty
wife, the discrepancy between
her beliefs and feelings.
Tawhai is fed-up with the role
of submissive wife to an alleged
warrior who does most of his
wardering on a sleeping-mat or
at the end of a fishing-line, and
her dream feelings materialise
in Whana, the beautiful young
spirit of the forest. They come
to the comfortable arrange-
ment that she shall spend her
days with Ruarangi, which,
after all, is all he wants, and her
nights with Whana; but the
neighbors start talking, and poor
Ruarangi becomes apprehen-
sive. He wants Whana killed,
but the old witchdoctor won’t
have it. The witchdoctor throws
the onus on Tawhai by asking
her to contemplate the problem
in terms of facts, not feelings.
If she can desert her husband
when her feelings change to-
wards him, why can’t her spirit-
lover desert her when, love being
the most ephemeral of the emo-
tions, his feelings change to-
wards her; and who is going to
protect her then in the damp and
draughty forest?
No fault could be found with
Irene Mitchell’s production.
Except for the bit of tea-
tree fencing in the first
scene, which looked gimcrack,
the settings were simple and
impressive, especially the pa
with its walls hung with
Maori carvings lighted by the
flames of a campfire, and the
costumes looked real. Bodily
and feelingly George Fairfax
was magnificent as the Golden
Lover, and June Brunell was a
spirited Tawhai, though with a
touch of the young ladies’ col-
lege about her —but probably
Tawhai was like that. The
ladies were all good, especially
Joan Scales as the benign old
mother, and Huw Roberts in
the role pf the traditional help-
less cuckold was perfect, as was
Edward Fitzpatrick as the old
.tohunga.
’ The M.L.T. made a recording
of Anthony Quayle’s speech of
the opening night, and is playing
it over every night before the
curtain rises. The house was
packed, and there was con-
tinuous laughter over the quaint
antics of Ruarangi, and the
scandal-mongering, and there
were much applause and curtain-
calls at the finish.
❖ ❖
“Henry IV”
In “Henry IV” at Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne, Anthony
Quayle’s Shakspearian Memorial
Company reaches the peak of its
achievement, and, as with the
Everest couple, they almost all
get there together, which is
an extraordinary performance
for Shakspearian productions.
Olivier’s “Richard III” was a
one-man band—he was so good
that he made the others look
just average, and most of them
were. But in the present pro-
duction Quayle’s fat magnilo-
quence as Falstaff doesn’t
diminish Keith Michell’s heroic
rage as Percy Hotspur, and the
impact of Hotspur’s terrific con-
centration on fighting is given
more force by the clinging
terror of Barbara Jefford as
Lady Percy.
One of the choicest bits of
humor in the play is the dialecti-
cal fisticuffs between the mysti-
cal Glendower and the hard-
headed Hotspur, and Leo Mc-
Kern and Keith Michell are a
perfect contrasting couple.
Terence Longdon’s prince has
rather less spirit than Shakspeare
gave him, and Anthony Quayle’s
fat knight is possibly his own
interpretation. He makes him
too much of the simple clown,
to present commentator’s way of
thinking, and too easily dumb-
founded by his critics, who,
after all, are just as ridiculous
as himself, though in a different
fashion.
Australian Operas
The world premier of Antill’s
“Endymion,” with the composer
conducting, was given at Sydney
Tivoli by National Opera, whose
courageous enterprise in en-
couraging the work of home-
grown composers deserves com-
mendation. Unfortunately the
opera was not, and could not be,
a success.
It has two fatal faults —no
dramatic action and no melody.
A composer may dispense with
lovely arias and concerted num-
bers if his score is pungently
witty, as in Verdi’s “Falstaff,”
which has nothing like the
melody of his earlier, operas, but
is possibly the most brilliant
operatic score extant. But for
an opera which, like Pope’s
alexandrine, drags its slow
length along!, beaulty in the music
is indispensable.
The singing, too, was far from
good. Marjorie Conley’s words
were for the most part indis-
tinguishable, her top notes were
strained ; she seems to be sing-
ing beyond her true gamut.
Eric Starling’s tenor had strength,
but was not used stylishly
enough. The only legible sing-
ing came from Alan Light and
Frank Lisle.
The beauty and brilliance of
Robin Lovejoy’s decor and
dressing undoubtedly saved the
opera from complete fiasco.
Lovejoy has an obvious flair for
theatre, and it was never more
apparent than in “Endymion.”
Arthur Benjamin’s “The
Devil Take Her,” also on the
same bill, was an outstanding
success, and for very good rea-
sons. To the droll tale of the
poet who, invoking the aid of
Dr. Devil in curing his wife of
dumbness, quickly invokes his
aid again to take her to Hell
when she becomes a nattering
virago, is allied a most nimble
score. The music effervesced
and the cpmedy was carried
through with rollicking joyous-
ness by Ronald Dowd (who in
this, his first comedy role,
acquitted himself admirably),
Frank Lisle as the devil, Alan
Light as his factotum, Neil
Easton as the neighbor and
Jacqueline Talbpt aS the wife.
❖ ❖
Blow and Rousseau
When Charles II had a fancy
to see his daughter, Lady Mary
Tudor, play Cupid to the Venus
of her mother, Mary Davies, the
child, says the programme to
Sydney University Department
of Music’s production *of John
Blow’s “Venus and Adonis,”
would have been about nine at
the ,1682 premiere; she musit
have been something of a prodigy
to cope with Dr. Blow’s florid
«hi-de-ho’s. The diminutive
Grace Clayton must have done
better on Saturday at the Wallace
Theatre, yet she could only
approximate singing which
would be a test for the most ex-
perienced and gifted of voices.
Doreen Ralton seemed to have
decided to rely on others of
Venus’s weapons; her voice
could not overcome even the
piano-continuo ; but Noel Mel-
vin sang the part of Adonis
clearly and firmly.
The programme insists that the
piece is a “tragic opera” and not,
as it describes itself, a masque ;
but it is more a thing of tableaux
than of action. The closest
thing to opera is the scene
between Venus and Cupid, where
Cupid brings in a blackboard to
teach other, little, Cupids how
to spike men’s hearts —in Amy
Kingston’s bare setting it had
the quality of a casual woodcut
of the early 1600’s. But Iva
Mihailovska’s ballet stole the
show; worked into the piece to
illustrate the thoughts of the
actors, they rivalled the deliberate
grace and strength of the music
—and, indeed, Professor Peart’s
conducting of his consort of 15
viols, two recorders and a grand
piano was more suitable to
dancers than soloists or chorus,
whom it overpowered.
The interval advanced us 30
years, to Jean-Jacques Rousseau’s
“Le Devin du Village,” written
to uphold the new Italian comic-
opera against the classicism of
Rameau and Lully, although
what could be more French than
Colette’s opening air, “J’ai perdu
mon serviteur,” would be hard
to imagine. Here the singers
more than held their own;
Margaret Nickson was clear and
charming, while Murray Lewis,
a tall tuning-fork of a village
fortune-teller, in black with white
ruffles, and Dieter Kloessing, as
Colin the lover, in full-skirted
coat, flowered waistcoat and
three-cornered hat, were fully
aware of their Italian, Commedia
del’ Arte, ancestors. Mr. Lewis
used his hands and eyes with
wicked effect, and Mr. Kloessing
combined a comedian's waddle,
reminiscent of Stan Wineera’s of
the Kiwis, with a clear, light
tenor —the conjunction of lovely
pastoral music, comic approach
and fine light voice was really
something.
It was a pity that two such
talbnted comedians had so little
to do: Colette and Colin
severally bribed the sorcerer to
bring them together after a
quarrel; he performed magic;
they came together—and there
it ended in a series of dances
and songs which not even ballet
or chorus or principals could
redeem from tedium.
With Wladimir Zagor’s deli-
cate colored-cardboard village-
scene and its more cohesive per-
formance, the Rousseau opera
had the advantage of the Blow
masque, but one would cheerfully
have given a dozen modern
operas to see either of them, the
more so since they may never
be done again in a lifetime.
Talkies
Sydney Releases
“Call Me Madam” (Regent).
Handsomely mounted, lavishly
dresSed, this Irving Berlin musi-
cal is powered by a cheerful
story about a most undiplomatic
U.S. Ambassadress to a Euro-
pean country who falls for its
Foreign Minister. Ethel Mer-
man, funny if raucous, and
George Sanders, who even sings,
carry this motif through on a
high note. The broad comedy is
helped along by Donald O’Con-
nor as a Press attachd and Vera-
Ellen as a princess, and their
dancing is ingenious and nimble.
The only weaknesses in a slap-
up show are a tendency of some
scenes to slacken in pace and to
overlength. Billy de Wolfe turns
in a neat piece of work as an
old-time diplomat.


ON OUR SELECTION
Starting the Selection
By "STEELE RUDD" (ARTHUR H. DAVIS)
IT’S twenty years ago now
since we settled on the Creek.
Twenty years! I remember
well the day we came from
Stanthorpe, on Jerome’s dray—
eight of us, and all the things—
beds, tubs, a bucket, the two
cedar chairs with the pine
bottoms and backs that Dad put
in them, some pint-pots and old
Crib. It was a scorching hot
day, too—talk about thirst! At
every creek we came to we drank
till it stopped running.
Dad didn’t travel up with us:
he had gone some months
before, to put up the house and
dig the waterhole. It was a
slabbed house, with shingled
roof and space enough for two
rooms, but the partition wasn’t
up. The floor was earth, but Dad
had a mixture of sand and fresh
cowdung with which he used to
keep it level. About once every
month he would put it on, and
everyone had to keep outside
that day till it was dry. There
were no locks on the doors.
Pegs were put in to keep them
fast at night, and the slabs were
not very close together, for we
could easily see anybody coming
on horseback by looking through
them. Joe and I used to play at
counting the stars through the
cracks in the roof.
The day after we arrived Dad
took Mother and us out to see
the paddock and the flat on the
other side of the gully that he
was going to clear for cultiva-
tion. There was no fence round
the paddock, but he pointed out
on a tree the surveyor’s marks
showing the boundary of our
ground. It must have been fine
land, the way Dad talked about
it. There was very valuable
timber on it, too, so he said;
and he showed us a place among
some rocks on a ridge where he
was sure gold would be found,
but we weren’t to say anything
about it, Joe and I went back
that evening and turned over
every stone on the ridge, but we
didn’t find any gold.
No mistake, it was a real
wilderness—nothing but trees,
goannas, dead timber and bears ;
and the nearest house, Dwyer’s,
was three miles away. I often
wonder how the women stood it
the first few years, and I can
remember how Mother, when
she was alone, used to sit on a
log where the lane is now and
cry for hours. Lonely! It was
lonely.
Dad soon talked about clear-
ing a couple of acres and putting
in corn—all of us did, in fact —
till the work commenced. It
was a delightful topic before we
started, but in two weeks the
clusters of fires that illuminated
the whooping bush in the night,
and the crash upon crash of the
big trees as they fell, had lost all
their poetry.
We toiled and toiled clearing
those four acres, where the hay-
stacks are now standing, till
every tree and sapling that had
grown there was down. We
thought then the worst was over
—but how little we knew of
clearing land! Dad was never
tired of calculating and telling
us how much the crop would
fetch if the ground could only
be got ready in time to put it in ;
so we labored the harder.
With our combined male and
female forces and the aid of a
sapling lever we rolled the
thundering big logs together in
the face of hell’s own fires ; and
when there were no logs to roll it
was tramp, tramp the day
through, gathering armfuls of
sticks, while the clothes clung
fo ojir backs with a muddy per-
spiration. Sometimes Dan and
Dave would sit in the shade
beside the billy of water and
gaze at the small patch that had
taken so long to do, then they
would turn hopelessly to what
was before them and ask Dad
(who would never take a spell)
what was the use of thinking of
ever getting such a place cleared.
And when Dave wanted to know
why Dad didn’t take up a place
on the plain, where there were
no trees to grub and plenty of
water, Dad would cough as if
something was sticking in his
throat, and then curse terribly
about the squatters and political
jobbery. He would soon cool
down, though, and get hopeful
again.
“Look at the Dwyers,” he’d
say. “From ten acres of wheat
they got seventy pounds last
year, besides feed for the fowls.
They’ve got corn in now and
there’s only the two of them.”
It wasn’t only buming-off!
Whenever there was a short
drought the waterhole was sure
to run dry. Then we had to take
turns to carry water from the
springs—about two miles. We
had no draught-horse, and even
if we had had one there was
neither water-cask, trolly nor
dray. So we humped it —and
talk about a drag! By the time
you returned, if you hadn’t
drained the bucket, in spite of
the big drink you’d take before
leaving the springs, more than
half would certainly be spilt
through the vessel bumping
against your leg every time you
stumbled in the long grass.
Somehow, none of us liked
carrying water. We would
sooner keep the fires going all
day without dinner than do a
trip to the springs.
One hot, thirsty day it was
Joe’s turn with the bucket, and
he managed to get back without
spilling very much. We were all
pleased because there was
enough left after the tea had
been made to give us each a
drink. Dinner was nearly over.
Dan had finished and was taking
it easy on the sofa when Joe
said “I say, Dad, what’s a nater-
dog like?”
Dad told him. “Yellow, sharp
ears and bushy tail.”
“Those muster bin some then
that I seen —I don’t know ’bout
the bushy tail—all the hair had
corned off.”
“Where’d y’ see them, Joe?”
we asked.
“Down ’n the springs floating
about —dead.”
Then everyone seemed to think
hard and look at the tea. I
didn’t want any more. Dan
jumped off the sofa and went
outside and Dad looked after
Mother.
At last the four acres —except
for the biggest of the ironbark-
trees and about fifty stumps —
were pretty well cleared. Then
came a problem that couldn’t be
worked out on a draught-board.
I have already said that we
hadn’t any draught - horses.
Indeed, the only thing on the
selection like a horse was an old
“tuppy” mare that Dad used to
straddle. The date of her foaling
went farther back than Dad’s, I
believe, and she was shaped
something like an alderman. We
found her one day in about
eighteen inches of mud, with
both eyes picked out by the
crows, and her hide bearing
evidence that a feathery tribe
had made a roost of her carcass.
Plainly, there was no chance of
breaking up the ground with her
help. And we had no plough.
How, then, was the corn to be
put in? That was the question.
Dan and Dave sat outside in
the comer of the chimney, both
scratching the ground with a
chip and not saying anything.
Dad and Mother sat inside talk-
ing it over. Sometimes Dad
would get up and walk round the
room shaking his head, then he
would kick old Crib for lying
under the table. At last Mother
struck something which
brightened him up and he called
Dave.
“Catch Topsy and” He
paused because he remembered
the old mare was dead,
“Run over and ask Mr. Dwyer
to lend me three hoes.”
Dave went. Dwyer lent the
hoes, and the problem was
solved. That was how we
started.
"It was Joe’s turn with the bucket .”
Our First Harvest
IF there is anything worse than
burr-cutting or breaking
stones it’s putting corn in with a
hoe. We had just finished. The
girls were sowing the last of the
grain when Fred Dwyer
appeared on the scene. Dad
stopped and talked with him
while we (Dan, Dave and myself)
sat on our hoe-handles like
kangaroos on their tails and
killed flies. Terrible were the
flies, particularly when you had
sore legs or the blight.
Dwyer was a big man with
long, brown arms and red, bushy
whiskers,
“You must find it slow work
with a hoe,” he said.
“Well —yes —pretty,” replied
Dad Oust as if he wasn’t quite
sure).
After a while Dwyer walked
over the “cultivation,” and
looked at it hard, then scraped
a hole with the heel of his boot,
spat and said he didn’t think the
com would ever come up. Dan
slid off his perch at this, and
Dave let the flies eat his leg
nearly off without seeming to
feel it; but Dad argued it out.
“Orright, orright,” said
Dwyer. “I hope it do”
Then Dad went on to speak
of places he knew of where they
preferred hoes to a plough for
putting corn in with, but Dwyer
only laughed and shook his head.
“Damn him!” Dad muttered,
when he had gone. “What rot!
Won’t come up !”
Dan, who was still thinking
hard, at last straightened him-
self up and said he didn’t think
it was any use either. Then Dad
lost his temper.
“No use?" he yelled. “You
whelp, what do you know about
it?”
Dan answered quietly “On’y
this, that it’s nothing but tom-
foolery, this hoe business.”
“How would you do it then?”
Dad roared, and Dan hung his
head and tried to button his
buttonless shirt wristband while
he thought.
“With a plough,” he answered.
Something in Dad’s throat
prevented him saying what he
wished, so he rushed at Dan with
the hoe. But he was too slow.
Dan slept outside that night.
No sooner was the grain sown
than it rained. How it rained!
For weeks! And in the midst
of it all the corn came up—every
grain—and proved Dwyer a bad
prophet. Dad was in high spirits
and promised each of us some-
thing—new boots all round.
The corn continued to grow—
so did our hopes, but a lot faster.
Pulling the suckers and “heeling
it up” with hoes was child’s play
—we liked it. Our thoughts were
all on the boots. It was months
since we had pulled on a pir.
Every night in bed we decided
twenty times over whether they
would be lace-ups or bluchers,
and Dave had a bottle of goanna
oil ready to keep his soft with.
Dad now talked of going up
country —“to keep the wolf from
the door,” as Mother put it—
while the four acres of corn
ripened. He- went, and returned
on the day Tom and Bill were
bom —twins. Maybe his absence
did keep the wolf from the door,
but it didn’t keep the dingoes
from the fowlhouse!
Once the corn ripened it didn’t
take long to pull it, but Dad had
to put on his considering-cap
when we came to the question of
getting it in. To hump it in bags
seemed inevitable till Dwyer
asked Dad to give him a hand to
put up a milking-yard. Then
Dad’s chance came and he seized
it.
Dwyer, in return for Dad’s
labor, carted in the corn and took
it to the railway-station when it
was shelled. Yes, when it was
shelled! We had to shell it with
our hands, and what a time we
had! For the first half-hour we
didn’t mind it at all, and shelled
cob after cob as though we liked
it. But next day, talk about
blisters! We couldn’t close our
hands,Jor them, and our faces
had to go without a wash for a
fortnight.
Fifteen bags we got off the
four acres, and the storekeeper
undertook to sell it. Com fras
then at twelve shillings and
fourteen shillings per bushel, and
Dad expected a big cheque.
Every day for nearly three
weeks he trudged over to the
store (five miles) and I went with
him. Each time the storekeeper
would shake his head and say
“No word yet.”
Dad couldn’t understand. At
last word did come. The store-
keeper was busy serving a
customer when we went in, so
he told Dad to “hold on a bit.”
Dad felt very pleased —so did
I.
The customer left. The store-
keeper looked at Dad and twirled
a piece of string round his first
finger, then said “Twelve pounds
your corn cleared, Mr. Rudd,
but of course” —going to a
desk —“there’s that account of
yours yyhich I have credited with
the amount of the cheque. That
brings it down now to just three
pounds, as you will see by the
account.”
Dad was speechless and looked
sick.
He went home and sat on a
block and stared into the fire
with his chin resting in his
hands, till Mother laid her hand
upon his shoulder and asked him


£
&
BEFORE YOU SEE HER TONIGHT put
on your new Fancy Navy Stamina Suit
As every woman knows, blue gives a man
a chance to look his best. AND, you know,
there IS something about the cut of a Stamina
two-piece double-breasted blue suit that gives
a man that quality look—adding extra smart-
ness, giving that breadth of shoulder and
chest without drape, that men rightly demand.
When you add to this stylish yet essentially
comfortable fitting, the beauty and richness
of the attractive Crusader Pure Wool Worsted
Cloth from which your Stamina Suit is pre-
tailored, you have all the ingredients of a
suit you are proud to wear.
Yes! When you want to look your best, call
in at your favourite Stamina Retailer and
obtain a STAMINA 2-PIECE D.B. SUIT.
v »
ASK FOR
Stamina rr ,j.
PUUS
'TAILORED FROM CRUS.ADER CLOTH
kindly what was the matter.
Then he drew the storekeeper’s
bill from his pocket, and handed
it to her and she too sat down
and gazed into the fire.
That was our first harvest.
Before We Got the
Deeds
OUR selection adjoined a
sheep-run on the Darling
Downs, and boasted of few and
scant improvements, though
things had gradually got a little
better than when we started. A
verandaless four-roomed slab
hut now standing out from a
forest of box-trees, a stockyard
and six acres under barley, were
the only evidence of settlement.
A few horses—not ours —some-
times grazed about, and
occasionally a mob of cattle —
also not ours. Cows with young
calves, steers and an old bull or
two would stroll round, chew
the best legs of any trousers that
might be hanging on the log
reserved as a clothesline, then
leave in the night and be seen
no more for months —some of
them never.
And yet we were always out
of meat.
Dad was up the country earn-
ing a few pounds—the corn
drove him up when it didn’t
bring what he expected. All we
got out of it was a bag of flour.
I don’t know what the store-
keeper got. Before he left we
put in the barley. Somehow
Dad didn’t believe in sowing any
more crops; he seemed to lose
heart. But Mother talked it over
with him, and, when reminded
that he would soon be entitled
to the deeds, he brightened up
again and worked. How he
worked!
We had no plough, so old
Anderson turned over the six
acres for us, and Dad gave him
a pound an acre—at least he was
to send him the first six pounds
got up country. Dad sowed the
seed, then he, Dan and Dave
yoked themselves to a large dry
bramble each and harrowed it
in. From the way they sweated
it must have been hard work.
Sometimes they would sit down
in the middle of the paddock
and spell, but Dad would say
something about getting the
deeds and they’d start again.
A cockatoo-fence was round
the barley; and wire-posts, a
long distance apart, round the
grass-paddock. We were to get
the wire to put in when Dad
sent the money, and to apply for
the deeds when he came back.
Things would be different then,
according to Dad, and the farm
would be worked properly. We
would break up fifty acres, build
a barn, buy a reaper, ploughs
and a cornsheller and get cows
and good horses. Meanwhile, if
we (Dan, Dave and I) minded
the barley he was sure there’d be
something got out of it.
Dad had been away about six
weeks. Travellers were passing
by every day, and there wasn’t
one that didn’t want a little of
something or other. Mother
used to ask them if they had met
Dad. None ever did until an old
grey man came along and said
he knew Dad well—he had
camped with him one night and
shared a damper. Mother was
very pleased and brought him in.
We had a kangaroo-rat (stewed)
for dinner that day. The girls
didn’t want to put it on the table
at first, but Mother said he
wouldn’t know what it was. The
traveller was very hungry and
liked it, and when passing his
plate the second time for more
he said it wasn’t often he got
any poultry.
He tramped on again, and the
girls were very glad he didn’t
know it was a rat. But Dave
wasn’t so sure that he didn’t
know a rat from a rooster and
reckoned he hadn’t met Dad at
all.
The seventh week Dad came
back. He arrived at night, and
the lot of us had to get up to
find the hammer to knock the
peg out of the door and let him
in. He brought home three
pounds—not enough to get the
wire with, but he also brought a
horse and saddle. He didn’t say
if he had bought them. It was a
bay mare, a grand animal for a
journey—so Dad said —and only
wanted condition. Emelina, he
called her. No mistake, she was
a quiet mare! We put her where
there was good feed, but she
wasn’t one that fattened on
grass. Birds took kindly to her
crows mostly and she
couldn’t go anywhere but a flock
of them accompanied her. Even
when Dad used to ride her (Dan
or Dave never rode her) they
used to follow, and would fly on
ahead to wait in a tree and caw
when he was passing beneath.
One morning when Dan was
digging potatoes for dinner —
splendid potatoes they were, too,
Dad said; he had only once
tasted sweeter ones, but they
were grown in a cemetery—he
found the kangaroos had been in
the barley. We knew what that
meant, and that night made fires
round it, thinking to frighten
them off ; but mobs of them were
in at daybreak. Dad swore from
the house at them, but they took
no notice, and when he ran
down they just hopped over the
fence and sat looking at him.
Poor Dad! I don’t know if he
was knocked up or if he didn’t
know any more, but he stopped
swearing and sat on a stump
looking at a patch of barley they
had destroyed, shaking his head.
Perhaps he was wishing that he
had a dog. We did have one
until he got a bait. Old Crib.
He was lying under the table at
supper-time when he took the
first fit, and what a fright we
got! He must have reared before
stiffening out, because he cap-
sized the table into Mother’s lap,
and everything on it smashed
except the tin plates and the
pints. The lamp fell on Dad, too,
and the melted fat scalded his
arm. Dad dragged Crib out and
cut off his tail and ears, but he
might as well have taken off his
head.
Dad stood with his back to the
fire while Mother was putting a
stitch in his trousers. “There’s
nothing for it but to watch them
at night,” he was saying, when
old Anderson appeared and
asked if he could have those few
pounds. Dad asked Mother if
she had any money in the house.
Of course she hadn’t. Then he
told Anderson he would let him
'have it when he got the deeds.
Anderson left, and Dad sat on
the edge of the sofa and seemed
to be counting the grains on a
corncob that he lifted from the
floor, while Mother sat looking
at a kangaroo-tail on the table
and didn’t notice the cat drag it
off.
At last Dad said “Ah, well, it
won’t be long now, Ellen, before
we have the deeds.”
We took it in turns to watch
the barley, Dan and the two
girls watched the first half of the
night and Dad, Dave and I the
second. Dad always slept in his
clothes, and he used to think
some nights that the others came
in before time. It was terrible
going out half-awake to tramp
round that paddock from fire to
fire, from hour to hour, shouting
and yelling. And how we used
to long for daybreak! Whenever
we sat down quietly together for
a few minutes we would hear the
dull thud! thud! thud ! —the
kangaroo’s footstep.
At last we each carried a
kerosene-tin, slung like a kettle-
drum and belted it with a waddy
—Dad’s idea. He himself mani-
pulated an old bell that he had
found on a bullock’s grave and
made a splendid noise with it.
It was a hard struggle, but we
succeeded in saving the bulk of
the barley, and cut it down with
a scythe and three reaping-
hooks. The girls helped to bind
it, and Jimmy Mulcahy carted
it in return for three days’ bind-
ing Dad put in for him. The
stack wasn’t built twenty-four
hours when a score of some-
body’s crawling cattle ate their
way up to their tails in it. We
took the hint and put a sapling-
fence round it.
Again Dad decided to go up
country for a while. He caught
Emelina after breakfast, rolled
up a blanket, told us to watch the
stack and started. The crows
followed.
We were having dinner. Dave
said “Listen!” We listened, and
it seemed as though all the crows
and other feathered demons of
the wide bush were engaged in a
mighty scrimmage. “Dad’s
back! ” Dan said, and rushed out
in the lead of a stampede.
Emelina was back, anyway,
with the swag on, but Dad
wasn’t. We caught her, and
Dave pointed to white spots all
over the saddle, and said
“Hanged if they haven’t been
ridin’ her!” meaning the
crows.
Mother got anxious, and sent
Dan to see what had happened.
Dan found Dad, with his shirt
off, at a pub on the main road,
wanting to fight the publican for
a hundred pounds, but couldn’t
persuade him to come home.
Two men brought him home that
night on a sheep-hurdle, and he
gave up the idea of going away.
After all, the barley turned out
well. There was a good price
that year, and we were able to
run two wires round the
paddock.
One day a bulky Government
letter came. Dad looked sur-
prised and pleased, and how his
hand trembled as he broke the
seal! “The deeds !” he said, and
all of us gathered round to look
at them. Dave thought they were
like the inside of a bearskin
covered with writing.
Dad said he would ride to
town at once and went for
Emelina.
“Couldn’t y’ find her. Dad?”
Dan said, seeing him return
without the mare.
Dad cleared his throat, but
didn’t answer. Mother asked
him.
“Yes, I found her,” he said
slowly, “dead
The crows had got her at last.
He wrapped' the deeds in a
piece of rag and walked.
There was nothing, scarcely,
that he didn’t send out from
town, and Jimmy Mulcahy and
old Anderson many and many
times after that borrowed our
dray.
Dad regularly cursed the
deeds every mail-day, and
wished to Heaven he had never
got them.
(To be continued next week )
THE FIRST "DAD AND DAVE"
These three chapters of what was later published in book-
form as “On Our Selection” were the very first appearances of
Dad, Dave, Mother and Sarah. “Starting the Selection” was
printed in “The Bulletin” on April 6, 1895; before that, it may
be hard for present-day Australians to believe (so much
a part of our bush tradition have these characters become), no
Dad and Dave existed in our literature.
After the first appearance of Dad and Dave “The Bulletin”
published “Steele Rudd’s” further stories or sketches as they
came along. These were later expanded for book-publication,
and it is in this expanded form that they are now re-presented
here. Each chapter is a story in itself, and two or more chapters
will be published each week.


ALL OVER THE WORLD
m
x \ ■ ■ vIWm- «P *
ft
'/
*■■•■■
■
Good mornings begin with Gillette
The up-to-date Chief cried “Now mind what I say”s,
Here’s how to shave in the easiest way.
Use a Blue Gillette blade —sharpest edge you can get
In a precision-made razor designed by Gillette.
BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
a
5-BLADE PACKETS, 2/1
10-BLADE PACKETS, 4/2
20-BLADE DISPENSER, 8/4
The world’s best shaving valuel
Blue Gillette Blades
DEATH on the WIRES
by J.C. SHELLEY.
DEATH struck quickly as
it invariably does with
electrocution,
Lou Ryan, foreman of
the line-gang, heard Smitzer yell
“For God’s sake pull the
ladder!”
Lou was showing one of the
laborers how to splice an eye in
a rope’s-end at the truck. The
urgency of the shout spun him
round, his square, solid face
turning white, and his slow-
moving mind numbing with
fear. He thought it was Smitzer
caught on the wires. But it
wasn’t, it was Smitzer’s mate,
Lewis, working on the opposite
side of the pole.
Lewis was bent backwards,
the nape of his neck pressed hard
against the neutral conductor, his
shuddering hands gripping a
brace-and-bit with which he had
been boring a hole through the
pole.
Even as he looked, trying
ur B e , nt 'y to Sf every detail dear
lableau S ™lLg“arkly“there™
ld T lCclu nung siariay mere, a
laborer grabbed Lewis s ladder
and jerked it hard ; it came down
,he pole with a clatter, swung
sidewavs and crashed across a
garden fence, breaking in halves,
Lewi * hung a m° m ™t then
against JTwhfa
a corn-sack of kapok
tigM V ™ d f'
ou w^ s conscl . ous .
the pause in time while
rnen s brains grasp what has
happened.
Then Smitzer was dropping
from his pole-platform, kicking
with his feet for his ladder, grab-
bing for Lewis’s collar, heaving
the lifeless body upright and at
the same time yelling for the
rescue-rope, his own belt hard-
taut with the added strain.
Lou snapped, “Joe! Find a
phone! Ambulance! ”
He ran for the foot of
Smitzer’s ladder, up which a
laborer was hurrying, the fall of
the rescue-rope snaking quickly
from its box on the truck. His
voice reached up to Smitzer.
“Get the rope over the cross-,
arm, Jack. Put the bight over
his shoulders and we’ll lower him
from here!”
He wanted desperately to be
up there himself. It was not to
his liking to be on the ground
when things wefe tight up top.
He was aware of his inability to
transmit clear words of instruc-
tions in a matter of urgency.
But he’d always been like that;
able to think for himself quickly
enough, but inclined to be vague
in oral instructions.
Time seemed to drag. He was
conscious of his impotent
inactivity at the foot of the
ladder; aware of the rest of the
gang converging hurriedly, the
curious householders beginning
to appear in their gardens, fling-
ing stupid questions at one
another; slow and horrified
shock coming when they realised
what had happened.
'THE body came down to the
footpath on the end of the
rope—much like a man being
lowered from the gallows—as
the ambulance screeched to a
stop. But they all knew it was
too late; that even the iron lung
sobbing its throaty wheezes at
the hospital wouldn’t save their
mate. Lewis had copped his,
It^,could get you like that; just
one slight mistake, one second
when your mind, or your mate’s
mind, was off what you were
doing; and it had you. And
yet for a man of Lewis’s ability
and experience, twenty years as
an electrical linesman, there
should not have been that
mistake!
Lou, searching his slow mind
for the reason, could not find it.
He was in charge of these men.
It was on his direct order that
Lewis had been where he was.
That, to Lou, meant one thing.
He was responsible for Lewis’s
death. Lewis had a wife and
three children; the elder two,
fortunately, over school age.
Smitzer came down the ladder
and began to roll a cigarette with
shaking fingers. He was forty ;
nearly too old for a linesman,
but an outstanding tradesman;
a man any foreman could rely
on where the clearance between
live-wires was tight. He was tall
and thin with a hard, weather-
bitten face; a man who con-
sistently left nothing to chance.
When he came down off a pole
and said casually “She’s jake,
Lou,” you knew everything up
top was as it should be, no loose
strands, no slack nuts.
Like the man himself his tool-
kit was above the average;
nothing that was surplus or use-
less, the oiled bits kept religiously
in their roll; sharp chisels pro-
tected by leather keepers; saw
in its sheath. Every morning
before ascending he tested his
safety-belt by strapping it round
the butt of the pole and heaving
back on it with all his weight.
There was nothing Smitzer left
to chance.
And yet, strangely enough,
Lewis had been the same. That
was why the two of them had
been working-mates so long.
They had known each other’s
ability, respected it and
developed “tricks” to make the
job easier and better.
Yet Lewis had been killed.
Lou was worrying about that.
Accidents shouldn’t happen to
men like these. He looked
sharply round the ring ofi faces,
sensed the nerves close to the
surface and snapped. “Okay,
back into it!”
The order had to be given.
Let them get into a huddle now
and they’d develop nerves and
there’d be another accident.
“Come on, come on!” he
snarled. “You heard me! Back
on the job. Do you want the
commission to sack the lot of
us?” He glared round the ring
of faces belligerently. “You can
hold a post-mortem after knock-
off. But right now we’ve got to
get on with the job!”
Aside, as the gang moved off,
“Hang on. Jack. I want to have
a look up top first.”
TTE climbed the ladder on the
opposite side of the pole to
where Lewis had been killed
while Smitzer walked about,
smoking heavily and unable to
stand still.
The ladder rested on the pole
below the chained platform. He
swung on to this, crouching to
keep below the wires. The four
big copper mains stretched away
on each side of the cross-arm,
sagging in the centre of their
spans, rising gracefully to the
next pole on each side.
There were a few house-services
off this side of the pole, but
they could not have been a
hazard to Lewis. ’ He had been
well clear of them at all times.
Lou frowned at the set-up, find-
ing it hard to imagine how the
accident had happened. There
seemed to be nothing to touch
that would have made a circuit.
Lewis had been boring a hole
at an angle up through the pole
for an eyebolt for an overhead
staywire. The brace with the
bit, bent at right-angles, was still
there, and the bit had come
through the wood a good six
inches as if Lewis had pushed it
to clear out the cuttings in the
hole. The tip of the bit was a
good nine inches below the
overhead “live” conductor.
Low-tension electricity didn’t
jump that far.
Lou recalled vividly that
Lewis had been jammed with his
neck against the wire on the
opposite side of the pole. He
had, apparently, been standing
with his shoulders between it
and the pole and his head above
the plane of the conductors. He
would be doing this for better
use of his brace, and the con-
ductor behind his neck was a
“neutral”; that is, grounded at
every switchboard along the
street and various other points,
it was to all intents and purposes
dead. The other three main con-
ductors, in relation to earth and
this neutral wire, were separ-
ately, two-hundred-and-forty
volts above earth’s potential. To
touch them and earth at the same
time would cause shock and
could cause death.
That work with bare hands
can be carried out on these live
mains is due to the fact that the
body is isolated from earth by
the wooden ladders and poles.
What then had happened to
Lewis, a linesman of twenty
years’ experience? There was
no indication.
Frowning over it, Lou realised,
was getting him nowhere. He
climbed heavily down the ladder,
feeling very tired and washed-
out. He had seen other bad
accidents in his time, but this
was the first death while he was
in charge of linesmen. He was
secretly proud of his years of
freedom from bad accidents.
Smitzer came up as Lou
reached the footpath. “Find
anything, Lou?” The man
appeared nervous, breathing hard
and unable to look Lou in the
face.
“Not a thing, Jack. Just can’t
make it out at all. How do you
reckon it happened?”
Smitzer couldn’t hazard a
guess. He had been working on
the outer phase with his back to
Lewis.
“I hear him give a bit of a
grunt,” he said thickly, “and
looks round and there he is cop-
ping it. I give a yell to Bill to
pull the ladder away and things
happen that fast I don’t have
time to fathom out where he’s
getting it from. It beats hell!
He was the best working-mate a
man ever had up a pole,”
Smitzer walked off abruptly a
few yards. His emotions were
understandable. When he came
back Lou said quietly, “Take
your belt off. Jack, and go for
a walk up the road. After lunch
you can go up top again or go
home. Whatever you like.”
“Gawd, I don’t know,”
Smitzer said heavily. “I must
be getting old. I should get up
there, but I think I’ll go for a
bit of a walk first.”
WHILE Smitzer was away Lou
brooded over the accident.
He had sent for the engineer;
and while he waited his
superior’s arrival he alternately
looked at the top of the pole
and the horizon. Neither gave
him a clue. He was worried
and perplexed. Accidents had to
be prevented. From all accidents
a lesson was learned, but there
was nothing in this one that he
could get a line off.
He was vaguely thoughtful
about Smitzer, too. The man
was usually pretty straight-
forward and downright with his
opinions. But he hadn’t ven-
tured an idea when asked how
the accident might have hap-
pened ; neither had he been able


EASIER IRRIGATION
with
MAKES FIELD
CONNECTIONS
AS EASY AS ABC!
The
Revolutionary
PRESSURE-
LOCKING
Ames \
Ball
Coupler
PAT. APPLIED FOP
PUSH. CLICK! ITS COUPLED!
You merely insert the “Ball” end of one
pipe into the “Bell” end of the adjoining
pipe. No twisting. ...no manual latching.
A slight water pressure within the line
automatically and instantly locks and seals
the connection.
Dior* •
the Ames Bali Coupler-engineered for efficient irrigation
POSITIVE CONNECTIONS AT ALL PRESSURES
22° FLEXIBILITY AT EACH JOINT, SELF SEALING SELF LOCKING
AN EASY. TWISTING PULL—IT'S APART
For full details contact
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd.
P.O. Box 509 10-14 Young Street, Sydney BU 5095
Branches: Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga and Hay
GD. 20
to look him in the eye, Lou
realised. That, of course, could
be reaction. Lou dismissed the
thoughts.
The engineer was puzzled, too.
“Nothing about the whole
damn’ thing makes sense,” he
said fretfully after an hour’s
thorough investigation. “It
makes you believe a bit in the
old saying ‘What is to be will
be.’ ”
A short, stout man growing
grey in the service of his job,
he, like his foreman, was deeply
concerned. “The man’s dead,”
he went on; “and we all feel
sorry about that. The point
is, though, that we don’t know
how he got it. And until we do
know we’ll get nowhere trying to
prevent a recurrence. That’s
what’s worrying me! It can
happen again and we don’t know
what to watch out for.”
He questioned Smitzer closely.
But Smitzer was unshakeable.
He had had his back to Lewis,
and things had happened so fast
after he had heard Lewis grunt
that he hadn’t been able to see
where contact was made.
“Let’s hope to Heaven some-
thing comes to light at the
inquest,” the chief said wearily.
“This not knowing is enough to
put ten years on a man’s life.”
TAURING the days before the
inquest Lou spent a lot of
time closely watching his gang
at work. For a few days they
had been subject to nerves, and
the day’s rate of work slipped
steeply.
It was annoying to watch
them. They were like a bunch of
new-chums getting used to
working on live wires. But work
picked up once they had beaten
their nerves. That was a relief
to Lou. Linesmen have two bad
extremes ; they can be either too
careful or too lax around live
wires. Either can be highly
dangerous.
Linesmen, like all other trades-
men, form definite habits early ;
habits that stick to them for the
rest of their lives. There are
little signatures to their indi-
vidual approaches to each job ;
about their tools and the way
they use them. Some prefer to
carry their pliers in the hip-
pocket instead of the “regula-
tion” frog and so on. They also
have their individual methods of
handling live wires, charac-
teristics that no amount of regu-
lations and safety-rules will
eliminate. These things they
have developed themselves.
They are part anck parcel of their
working make-up and dangerous
if altered by orders.
Smitzer appeared to become
his normal self again after a few
days, but he wouldn’t be drawn
into any lunch-time discussions
on how Lewis might have met
his death. It was a point that
Lou gave much thought to,
Smitzer, being the senior lines-
man, could be expected to have
some ideas.
Lou took to watching Smitzer
working up top more than a
capable linesman should be
watched. One morning Smitzer
was clamping bridges across a
strain-point. He would take the
loose end of bridge, contact it
against the live main with a small
shower of sparks, slide the clamp
over the two wires at their join,
tighten the nut of the clamp with
his fingers, take both hands off
the wire, and feel for a spanner
hanging from the next con-
ductor.
He did all this naturally and
instinctively from years of doing
the same thing. It was his
characteristic. He had taught
himself early to hang his spanner
by a wire hook on the opposite
live wire to which he was work-
ing. A dangerous practice per-
haps, but safe enough to a man
who had taught himself to think
before making the next move.
To forget while reaching for the
spanner could mean a severe
shock ; it meant that all through
the years Smitzer had assured
himself that he would not be-
come lax when handling “hot”
wires.
But nowadays he carried the
spanner in his pocket. Lou
recalled sharply that this was a
new practice, and that Smitzer
was having trouble in breaking
old habits. He had removed the
hook from the end of the
spanner; but just when, Lou
couldn’t remember. It was hard,
he realised, to pinpoint small
matters like that.
He couldn’t even be sure
whether it was before or after
the accident. The spanner
could have been hanging on the
wire nearest the pole the day
Lewis had bored through the
pole, and the tip of the bit could
have touched the spanner and
conducted the current through
the brace and through Lewis’s
body to the neutral wire. It was,
perhaps, the one time in history
that such a thing could have
happened . . .
T OU was suddenly confident
that it had happened. His
first feeling was of sympathy for
Smitzer. The man must have
known, as he turned round on
hearing Lewis’s grunt. After all
these years of usage, he was
trying to break' himself of a
habit.
It’s to be hoped, Lou thought
wearily, that he beats the habit
before he has an accident him-
self. He’s middle-aged and set
in his ways, and one of these
days, groping for that spanner
that isn’t there, he’s going to
contact those wires and I’ll have
another death on my hands.
The inquest was only days
away. To the best of his lay-
man’s ability the coroner would
try to settle responsibility for the
accident. Would he be strong
or wily enough to trap anyone
into a statement? Would
Smitzer, on his own accord or
under oath, explain? If Smitzer
remained dumb and Lou was
asked his opinion . . . how was
he to answer?
Could he in the name of justice
say he had no idea? On the
other hand, could he condemn
a mate to a charge of man-
slaughter? It could only be
surmising at the best. When he
came to think about it he could
not definitely recall having seen
the spanner hanging on the hook
before the accident. It could
have been there. It could have
been anywhere else. You
became used to seeing everyday
things with only half your mind.
He walked off abruptly along
the street, wishing to glory that
he was a linesman or a laborer,
even. The Worry of the job, if
the job ever worried them at all,
was over at five o’clock. The
engineer was at ease behind the
bulwark of his office desk. The
engineer lived in theory while
the foreman lived in the practical
world of workmen’s faults.
For the eight hours of the
working day, always on the
alert for the first sign of laxity
or the yell of alarm, going over
in your mind at night the
problems of tomorrow so that
you are clear in your mind what
Joe and Harry and Bill will be
doing for the next eight hours.
It was from such planning that
men came to hold you in
respect as a foreman. He knew,
too, just how quickly men can
lose faith. Then, too, there was
man’s own faith in himself. To
Lou that was everything.
He. had come up the hard
way; learning the job from a
start at hole-sinking. He began
to worry about what the gang
was thinking. They were not
fools. Most of them must have
observed Smitzer’s habit of
hanging his spanner on the main
by its hook. Had they noticed,
then, that he now carried it in
his pocket and that the hook was
missing? Were they making
their own deductions? Were
they waiting to see what the
inquest brought to light?
Lou thought he should say
something to Smitzer about the
missing hook. He decided not
to. It was a difficult thing to
mention, particularly if you
weren’t tactful. Lou knew his
weakness well enough. Tact was
not part of his make-up. In the
next few days, vaguely conscious
of his attitude towards the gang
he’d bossed for years, he
developed a feeling when he
walked amongst them that they
were watching him. It was
possible, he thought irritably,
that they were even laying bets on
the outcome of his conscience.
Would he speak to Smitzer
about the missing hook, or would
he wait till the inquest and
explain to the coroner how the
accident could have happened
and leave Smitzer open to a
charge of manslaughter?
He shrivelled up inside his
stomach thinking that. It’s be-
cause I’m getting old, he thought.
Why. the hell don’t these things
happen when a man’s young?
pjLSIE never took much notice
of Lou at home. So long as
he came home some time, and the
pay-envelope hadn’t been inter-
fered with on Friday nights, that
was all that she worried much
about. A tall, loosely-built
woman with an easygoing
manner, she mostly treated Lou
as a child. He didn’t really exist
except for the pay and being
around sometimes.
Lou had given up trying to
talk to her about his work years
before. She either didn’t want
to be bothered or couldn’t under-
stand. But occasionally Lou
would feel the desire for a little
sympathy. He had a set open-
ing for this, a kind of mild
bluffing, a suggestion that he was
right, anyway. He tried it the
night before the inquest.
“You know, Else, I often wish
I’d been a truck-driver.”
“Oh, go on with you, Lou.”
Elsie didn’t even cast a glance at
his strained face. “You’re
always wishing for the Man in
the Moon, Lou. And I’ll bet if
you got him you wouldn’t be
satisfied,”
She could dismiss Lou and his
worries as easy as all that. Piffle.
Lou returned to his silent
inward searching with a half-
sigh that expressed nothing.
He had recently come to the
other side of the question, too ;
Smitzer’s side of it. Smitzer
must have realised instantly how
Lewis had been electrocuted,
Smitzer had undoubtedly
snatched the spanner off the wire
at the instant he had seen what
was happening. Probably his
first reaction was to break the
circuit and so release Lewis.
Later he had decided to keep
quiet, probably as much from
pride as fear. For more than
twenty years he had been a lines-
man with a clean record, and
here, when the days of his work
overhead were drawing to a
close, his mate had been killed
by one careless action. In his
own worry and fear Smitzer
could have little thought for the
worries of the man in charge.
\ |
THE inquest went through
smoothly. A recording of
accidental death.
(Continued on page 34)


Ford son Farmers Everywhere acclaim
THIS TIME-SAVING- COMBINATION
FORDSOH MAJOR
Best tractor investment
for 5 big reasons
1. Lowest priced tractor per
horsepower rating
2. Choice of Diesel or Kero Power
3. Choice of gear ratios.
4. A Model for every type of farm
and soil conditions
5. Widest service facilities
in Australia
COMPARE THESE PRICES WITH THOSE OF ANY OTHER TRACTOR
Prices include all thl« equipment standard on all models. Lights,
See your local Fordson
dealer for full details.
Less time on the job . . . and easy
for one-man operation
This time saving “Crown”, three
furrow mould-board plough is
specially designed for Fordson
Major three-point linkage —can be
mounted in two minutes. Once
mounted—depth, levelling and
front furrow width are
all easily controlled
from the tractor seat.
1
*
%
IS
(Tro’wx implements designed for use with your fordson major
df
FARM DOZER
Easily fitted and turns a Ford-
son Major into a Bulldozer
and/or combined.
Blade is bft. wide, 2ft. high,
moves a good si\e load.
ROTARY HOE CULTIVATOR
4ft. and 4ft. 6 ins. models
available with standard
or ratooning rotors. Rot-
ary Hoe is fitted with
rubber tyred wheel, too.
-nr**
POST HOLE DIGGER
Specially designed for Fordson Major linkage, is
ruggedly constructed and may be attached in
a few minutes.
SPRING RELEASE. TINE COLTP
Each tine is attached to
two heavy coil springs to
enable cultivation in rocky,
or root filled soil.
VATOR
1
W.
5?
REAR END JIB
Ideal for lifting fence posts, wool bales, drums of
fuel and bales of meadow hay, etc.
PORTABLE SAW BENCH
Powered and carried by Fordson Major does a
wide range of sawing jobs at low cost.
3 FURROW 10 IN. DISC PLOUGH
Combines the best features of mounted and
trailing ploughs, follows ground contour perfectly,
giving an even furrow depth.
Wants
Words of poem “My Testament,”
by Frank Morton; or to buy book
containing it.—5542.
To buy copy of The Animals
ors °J’ ky Banjo Paterson. —
To buy The Odyssey of a Gold
Seeker, by L. R. Menzie. —5544.
Information Sought
History of the Kelly gang?
By 1870 Australia seemed to be
free from bushrangers, when in April,
1878, arose the Kelly gang, last of
the outlaws. Its members were Ned
and Dan Kelly, who were both con-
victed horse-stealers, Steve Hart and
Joe Byrne. Ned Kelly, born in 1854,
was the eldest. Their exploits in-
cluded the killing of three Mansfield
(Vic.) policemen (Oct., 1878) and
raids on the banks at Euroa (Vic.)
on Dec. 11, 1878, and at Jerilderie
(N.S.W.) on Feb. 9, 1879. Huge
rewards were then offered for them.
For 16 months the gang remained
quiet, until at last an accomplice,
Aaron Sherritt, agreed to lead police
to their hiding-place. On June 27,
1880, the Kellys, suspecting treachery,
murdered Sherrit, and entrenched
themselves in the inn at Glenrowan
(Vic.), which was soon besieged by
the police. Ned Kelly, in rough
head- and body-armor, sneaked
through the police cordon during the
dark and fired on them from the
rear; eventually he was shot in the
legs (which he had not protected) and
captured (June 28, 1880). Joe Byrne
was shot dead and his body re-
covered soon after the hotel was
set on fire (June 29); the bodies of
the other two were found in the
ruins, probably self-slaughtered. Ned
Kelly was tried in Melbourne and
convicted of the murder of the Mans-
field police, and was hanged Nov. 11,
1880.
* - * • *
(1) Is atomic research in Australia
a monopoly of Federal and State
Governments ? (2) Is there any law
to prevent a private institution finan-
cing research into and production of
atomic energy in Australia? (3) Could
such an institution mine or buy
uranium for its own use?
(1) No. (2) As with research into
other branches of science, there is no
law to prevent private institutions
from engaging in atomic-energy re-
search. Professor H. Messel, Physics
professor at Sydney University,
having failed to get from Federal
or State Government the £25,000
annually which he needs to maintain
his researches, is at present seeking
to interest businessmen and industrial-
ists in financing atomic research.
There is too great a tendency here
to look to the Government for
finance, and it is, of course, public
policy to prevent accumulation of
fortunes sufficient to endow adequate
research. (3) No. Under the Atomic
Energy Act (1953), all uranium and
radioactive ores produced in Aus-
tralia are the property of the Com-
monwealth Government. (But Pro-
fessor Messel believes that free enter-
prise must eventually take over use
of atomic energy for all constructive
purposes.)
* ♦ * *
Information on the aboriginal mur-
derers the Governors?
In July, 1900, the Dubbo (N.S.W.)
district was the scene of some
atrocious murders committed by a
gang of four natives —Jimmy and Joe
Governor, their sister Ethel and
Jacky Underwood. At Breelong they
murdered a selector and his family,
and shot and speared people at Gul-
gong, Wollar and other places. The
Governors were ex-police-trackers,
and their experience as trackers
enabled them to evade capture for
several months. Finally, at the end
of October, the police cornered them,
Joe Governor being shot dead and
the others captured. Jimmy Governor
and Underwood were subsequently
executed and the girl sentenced to a
term of imprisonment.
* * * *
When were the Poor Laws first
introduced in England? Also, some
particulars about them?
The first Act for the levy of a
compulsory poor-rate was passed in
1572, in Elizabeth I’s reign. Each
parish was made responsible for its
poor, the justices in sessions being
enabled by the Act to assess all
persons who refused to contribute in
proportion to their ability; anyone
“falling on the rates” could bfe sent
back to his place of birth. As well,
houses of correction were ordered to
be established “for the punishment
and amendment of the vagabond class
by means of compulsory labor.” The
more famous Poor Law (1601) mainly
regularised existing practice; but it
also included arrangements for setting
the poor to work upon “a convenient
stock of flax, hemp, wool, thread,
iron and other necessary ware and
stuff” and for apprenticing pauper
children. The system of poor-rate,
workhouse and settlement-by-parish
that lasted till the Industrial Revolu-
tion developed from this 1601 Act.
Of this Act J. R. Green’s A Short
History of the English People says:
“Whatever flaws a later experience
has found in these measures, their
wise and humane character formed
a striking contrast to the legislation
which had degraded our statute-book
from the date of the Statute of
Laborers [1350]; and their efficacy at
the time was proved by the entire
cessation of the great social danger
against which they were intended to
provide.”
Brief Answers
E.P.: If the booking is made with-
out conditions and you notify the
client that you have accepted it, he
is not entitled to any refund of the
deposit. If he cancels the booking
before you have accepted it, then he
is entitled to a refund in full
W.J.G.: The first Duke of Edinburgh
was George I’s eldest grandson
Frederick, the title being conferred in
1726. Frederick became Prince of
Wales on the King’s death 11 months
later, but did not live to wear the
crown. The dukedom was not revived
till 1865, when the title was conferred
on Queen Victoria’s second son,
Alfred. It became extinct on his
death in 1900, his only son having
predeceased him. The title was revived
again for the present duke in 1947
on the occasion of his marriage with
the then Princess Elizabeth J.E.:
Bernard Shaw died in 1950....
Curious: It is not possible to advise
on this question on the information
furnished, and you will have to con-
sult a local solicitor. Much may
depend upon what conversation your
daughter had with the Housing Com-
mission representative when asking
for the blockage to be removed. On
the face of it, the making of a
charge in these circumstances seems
unjustified L.G.D.: (1) Caroline
Chisholm was born at Wootton,
Northamptonshire (Eng.) in May,
1808. (2) Write the Director-General
of the Royal Visit, Lieut.-General
Berryman, Victoria Barracks, Sydney.
. ...H.5.8.: Write Secretary of
the Treasury, Barrack-street, Perth
(W.A.) D.W.Mac. u There is no
recognised scale governing public-
accountants’ fees... .A.McK.M.; The
Prime Minister’s Department and the
Premier’s Department of the various
States make the recommendations for
honors. (Labor Governments do not
make recommendations.) M.E.G.
(and others): The Melbourne agents
for the Pisterman home-knitting-
machine are Myer’s, Bourke-street;
Sydney agents, Nock and Kirby’s,
George-street L. Don: By the Bill
of Rights (1688) the life of the Eng-
lish Parliament was fixed at three
years. In 1911 it was fixed at five
years. In the case of national emer-
gency there is nothing to prevent
Parliament prolonging its life indefi-
nitely, as happened in both World
Wars J.V.: Ken Rosewall won the
Australian and French tennis titles
this year... .K.H.: (1) Cardinal
Angelo Mai (1783-1854) is mainly
remembered as having unearthed the
MS. of Cicero’s De Republica. (2)
Andrea Navagero was a minor poet
of the Italian Renaissance. In 1526
he was Venetian Ambassador to the
Court of the Holy Roman emperor
Charles V N.J.C.: The Federal
Government arranges all borrowing
for both Commonwealth and States
through the Loan Council (consisting
of representatives of Commonwealth
and State Governments). It was by
awar-time arrangement, since con-
tinued, between Commonwealth and
State Governments that the Common-
wealth alone levies taxes on incomes.
As some of the State Governments
are not always satisfied with their
share of loan-money, it is possible
that taxing powers may one day be
returned to the States.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
E.V.: All paragraphs used are paid
for on receipt of claim. Payment
for your contribution has been posted.
... .K.J.H.: “Musing” prosy
5.8.: “I submit a little thought of
mine in all humility.” Be it ever
so humble, there’s no place like
home for it A.L.: What with the
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
small “i” of your typewriter being
worn-out, and the “boomerangs ’n
fl’ght abuzz’ng” we’ve never been
quite sure where “Where Now?” was.
J. 8.: “Why Worry?” needs more
worry about technique 0.W.:
There are possibilities in the wild-
flowers of “No Daffodils” ;_ not much
point in either the beginning or the
end P.G. and A.C.: “We scribbled
them months ago while out on a
mustering camp and will post them
tonight before we change our minds.”
Poems, in the circumstances, par-
doned ; but next time send us some
pars, about mustering.... Anon.:
Thanks for “High Flight.” We
reprinted it during the war....N.R.:
Pleasant in a light, slight way
E.C.: Jingly and full of echoes....
P.L.: It is at least peculiar....
L. : They seem to derive from
Blake, without his lyrical touch. Still,
try again J.C.S.: Too abstract.
P.L.: It may interest you to
know that your prose paragraph on
“Cyclones and the Atom Bomb” was
sorted, by an understandable error,
into the week’s contributions ot
poetry E.W.: As a general rule
we’d prefer to see something on,
say, a grasshopper, rather than on
such large themes as sin and eternity.
.... J.M.C.: “The Ballad of Hook-
worm Harry” is rather too long and
too lax for us F.H.F.: Protests,
philosophy and poetry all duly noted.
There is no sinister significance in the
“T” W.H.: “The Sylph” too thin.
Searchlight: A somewhat
watery beam K.M.: A thing ol
shreds and patches J.S.: “I think
this type of consonant-rhyme is
something new.” Have a look at
Hopkins and Wilfred Owen H.P.:
“City at Night” empty O.K.S.
(Ireland): We don’t reprint
R.H.: A glimmer of light in your
sunset L.R.8.: The facts, alas,
are more interesting than the verse.
D.B.G.: “At 84, I can add a
recommendation to mercy. Kill me
gently.” Dismissed, then, with a
caution G.J.P.: Plenty of pessi-
mism but a paucity of poetry
M. Mousetooth: If that poem would
really reform the world we would
publish it J.M.: Natural thought
and style overlaid in borrowed tech-
nique; an impression of trying too
hard to be impressive... .P.A.: Not
for us, but it might be popular at
Anzac reunions, etc .J.S.: Though
we swear ourselves, the last lines
look vulgar E.M.: A .very rough
rhyme is “The Roaring Forties”
A.E.D.: Pity you didn’t send it
during the war F.A.E.: Turned
back through shortage of oxygen.
....F.8.: It doesn’t seem to say
much more than that night follows
day B.B.: Looked twice at the
cane-cutting ballad. A bit bare and
bumpy... .J.G.: Try them on the
girl... .R.S.; Say it in prose. Please.
J.W.McN.: Merely to drop your
aitches and spell “you” as “yer” is
not enough to make a poem....
W.H.R.: Have the next one typed,
if possible E.C.: All lightweights.
N.J.: “Transfixed I stood by
Nature’s wonders.” That just about
transfixes us, too G.P.: A faint
touch of atmosphere... .R.V.8.: If
train-travel inspires you to poetry,
take a bus... .J. 8.: “If possible read
once, then destroy.” Both done
U.A.T.; Nothing new in “Youth
Today.”


GUARD
1
PROTECTA
SUrd-StUH •
Till
Suitable for erery type of bn.ln... " r ~» r “
.11 Sale.. Credit.. Payout. etc. built.
pleasing in appearance. Send for lull d.taiU
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Homan Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon ft Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. • • Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
Australian Historical Sketches
The
Golden Mountain
By M. H. ELLIS
THE lure of gold is no longer
a main driving-force in the
life of Australia. Almost
imperceptibly its influence
has ceased to be part of the life
of the community—no glittering
sovereigns any more, no new
rushes, no dozens of mines on
the Stock Exchanges, with shares
priced low and providing,
through their fluctuations, bet-
ting money for the shrewd small
speculator.
Yet not much more than a
generation ago gold was still a
very large part of the content of
the lifeblood of the Australian
community. Its fascination
occupied the thoughts and
dreams of thousands, its great
mines and production-towns had
a zest and virility unknown in
this softer post-war Australian
world.
More than yellow metal came
out of the Australian mines—
the great Walter and Eliza Hall
Trusts, which have done so much
for medicine and helped in
science and in the education of
so many hundreds of aspiring
Australians (the writer of this
article included) had their
origins in a barren-looking
mountain called Mt. Morgan.
The wealth and enterprise which
went to start the great Anglo-
Persian Oil Company, an institu-
tion which has literally changed
the history of the world in its
time, arose from the same
bountiful source. The modest
competence which allowed Mr.
R-. G. Casey to devote himself
to the study of foreign affairs
and the service of his country at
his own expense for many years
in his youth was the emission of
the same fountain—he served
there as an engineer for a time.
Hundreds of names well-
known to Australian history are
connected with that Stupendous
bonanza, the greatest goldmine
in British history, about the only
large goldmine in the Common-
wealth which can boast that it is
still in substantial order 70 years
from its beginnings.
The history of Mt. Morgan is
associated this year with both
a centenary and 70-year jubilee.
The first white men to settle in
the district were Charles and
William Archer, who passed
quite close to the foot of the
mountain as they travelled up
the Dee from the Burnett during
the search which landed them
permanently on the beautiful
grazing grounds of Gracemere.
That they did not take much
notice of the mountain was not
surprising. It was ordinary
enough, bare-looking, thickly-
timbered and less prominent in
a landscape in which hills were
two-for-threepence than the
Razorback hard by. When they
had opened up the track which
presently had Rockhampton on
the broad Fitzroy River about
25 miles away as its terminus,
prospectors began to work their
way through.
Canoona Rush, in 1858,
brought to the district experi-
enced fossickers, men who had
seen service with dish and cradle
all over the world. Within seven
or eight years the gullies and
hillsides were being worked for
gold, and, if the experience of
35 years afterwards goes for
anything, some of them certainly
must have at least struck pay-
dirt along Dairy Creek and out
by the Champion and the
Retrieve.
Some of these pioneers of the
pan became noted citizens. One
was E. H. T. Plant, a prominent
member of the Queensland
Legislative Council and father of
three soldier sons—Reg, who
fought in S. Africa, Dr. H. T.
Plant, killed in France, and Eric,
who became a major-general and
held Eastern, Command during
World War 11. E. H. T. Plant’s
name afterwards became famous
in connection with Charters
Towers. George Jackson,
M.L.A., a Chairman of Com-
mittees, in his early youth was
another.
Some were joined, during the
Crocodile Rush in the mid-
’sixties, by a large number of
pigtailed Chinese, who swarmed
over the valley of the Dee. These
actually prospected the ground
adjoining the mountain —Linda,
Mundic Gullies, Mills Gully,
Razorback Gully. But none of
them understood the kind of
ores which hold the wealth of
Mt, Morgan. They were look-
ing for quartz, and when they
did find it, it was invariably
barren.
+ +
Some of them must have
found the copper which abounds
in the hills ; and some must have
fallen on the agates and the sap-
phires (which one used to pick
up a few miles away) as they
pushed on through the country
towards Stanwell. But not one
of them troubled to really look
at the 750 ft.-high mountain, with
its huge junks of uninviting-
looking ironstone —as uninterest-
ing to the quartz or alluvial
miner as the boulders of the
Tennant Creek Gap among
which thousands of gold-
knowledgeable travellers camped
during 50 years without giving
them a second glance.
Meanwhile, in 1861, a dour
Highlander named Gordon, who
arrived in Australia just after
the wreck of the Dunbar (1857),
squatted on Dairy Creek, which
runs into the Dee at the foot of
the Golden Mountain. In 1871
he took up part of the old Cal-
liungal Run, which had been
opened for selection three years
before. It was reasonably good
country, with plenty of sheltered
valleys, permanent water and
abundant timber.
The Gordon family’s best
waterhole was never known
to dry-up during half a century.
They ran 200-250-head of cattle
until the drought of ’7B cleared
them out temporarily and the
family fled, leaving a son,
Donald, in a bark hut to comply
with residence conditions and
starve his way through to better
times. His was the first dwelling
in Mt. Morgan—near where the
Dairy Creek runs into the Dee.
The mountain, which rose
near the Gordons’ western
boundary, they called Ironstone
Mountain. No doubt they used
some of the gibbers which rolled
down its sides to throw at the
crows or knapped bits of the
lovely peacock ore —which is all
colors of the rainbow —from the
ironstone cap to give away in
Rockhampton as curiosities.
However, by 1881 it had sunk
into somebody’s mind that the
hill might be worth looking at
for copper. A leading mining-
engineer did. He must have
been the sorriest mining-engineer
on earth a few years later, since
his report on its worthlessness
was almost scornful.
About the first man on whom
it dawned that the Ironstone
Mountain might not be quite
what it seemed was William
Mackinlay, formerly overseer or
head-stockman of Calliungal,
one of whose daughters married
Sandy, one of the Gordon boys.
Mackinlay lived about the dis-
trict, doing a little fossicking and
droving. He began to visit the
mountain and dolly a bit of the
stone round the creek. Through
him Sandy Gordon, the son-in-
law, came to know something.
It was he who gave half-hearted
accounts of low-grade gold on
the Dee to Mr. William Burns,
of Rockhampton, who, in turn,
introduced him to Frederick
Morgan.
The latter had come from
Warwick (Q.) direct, and from
Bathurst (N.S.W.) originally, to
become mine host at the
Criterion Hotel in Rockhampton.
Morgan was an experienced
goldminer, one of the contem-
poraries of Hargraves on the
Ophir. He was at the time work-
ing a small mine in the district
with help from T. S. Hall. With
his brothers Edwin and Thomas,
he was doing a good deal of
prospecting.
Meanwhile, a man named
John Jones, who owned a five-
stamp battery “below the range,”
had seen some stone containing
yellow metal from the mountain,
but was laughed at by Donald
Gordon when he said it was
gold. His statement was also
promptly corrected by a gold-
buyer, who no doubt put a wet
finger on it and snorted
“Mundic!” It was, however,
arranged to take a bullock-
wagon up over the Razorback
and bring some ore down to be
treated in the little five-head
battery, but Donald Gordon
failed to carry out the arrange-
ment and presently got a job out
in the west and went away.
T +
Now his sister-in-law, the
daughter of Mackinlay, if local
legend is accurate, interested the
Morgans, and Edwin and
Thomas Morgan were sent up
with Sandy Gordon, her
husband, in July, 1882, on the
basis that they were looking for
a copper- or silver-lode. They
did some costeening on the way
up and presently found them-
selves wet through from a heavy
storm, at Gordon’s bark hut on
the banks of the flooded Dairy
Creek.
They dried their clothes. Tom
Morgan was ill, so Edwin
Morgan and Sandy Gordoh set
out for the hill, travelling north
and fossicking in the creeks as
they went, and finally finding
themselves slightly bushed in a
gully beside a large black
boulder. Sandy Gordon was
ahead of his companion, who
broke a piece off the boulder
and, noticing metal in it, quietly
put it in his pocket. Then he
saw another boulder of the same
kind and took other specimens;
but he said nothing to Sandy as
they floundered among the iron-
bark, grass-tree and dogwood to
the top of the mount, whence
they could scarcely see their
camp through the rain.
When they returned to the hut,
the Morgan brothers went quietly
to the creek and panned the
stone which Edwin had brought
down. There seemed to be as
much gold in it as stone. They
waited till next morning, shifted
camp to the mountain and did
some more prospecting, sinking
potholes for several days, break-
ing-off specimens and panning-
off in the creek. Finally satisfied,
they sent Sandy Gordon off with
specimens in a bag to Mt.
Wheeler, for Fred Morgan to
test.
Poor Sandy! He didn’t get
beyond Wyatt’s Bar, a half-way
house. The Morgans, who had
an agreement to meet him in
Rockhampton on Saturday
night, found that he was not
there. They, however, had
brought more specimens, and
these were as rich as the first
ones. They took up claims all
round the mountain, and then
they hired a buggy and went up
the Razorback, worked over the
ground for months, and finally
took T. S. Hall, manager of the
Queensland National Bank, and
William Knox D’Arcy into their
confidence.
Hall was an experienced man.
He had worked for the old Aus-
tralian Joint Stock Bank. He
had served in Goulburn and
Clermont. It was he who had
handed over the consignment of
gold which had led Gold Com-
missioner Griffin to murder his
troopers in 1867, He had had
many exciting experiences ; and
he knew all about gold. D’Arcy
was the chief solicitor in Rock-
hampton, and they took in with
them William Pattison, a
grazier and butcher.
All these were close friends,
figures in the sporting world, big
men in everything they tackled
and so enterprising that they
were even prepared to raise a
couple of thousand pounds to
put up a battery on Mt. Morgan
—when they could get it up the
Razorback on Jones’s bullock-
teams, which at the crucial
moment failed to function, leav-
ing the main loads to be hauled
. up with a crab-winch.
By February, 1883, the battery
was set-up at the base of the hill,
with Fred Meyenberg working
it and Fred Morgan as head-
miner. There was no difficulty
about mining—it was just a
quarrying job. An open-cut was
put into the side of the hill, the
drays backed up to it and the
stone was carted to the chutes
leading down to the level of the
battery beside the creek.
The enterprising Rockhamp-
tonites had bought a Golconda,
The extraction was a crude busi-
ness, but even though it left
ounces in the tailings, it gave
anything up to £7O-worth of gold
to the ton —at £4 an ounce. It
was mid-July before the battery
was really running. By the end
of 1883 a new battery was put-
ting through 200 tons a week;
but even at this stage faith in the
mine was limited.
Fred Morgan soon formed the
opinion that the deposit was only
a surface one. And then the
Morgans began to slide quietly
out. Edwin made over his
shares to Fred. Fred sold to
Knox D’Arcy for £62,000 and
Tom to D’Arcy for £26,000.
Fred’s son got an extra £lO,OOO
in *lBB6 when he came of age.
The new owners expanded their
syndicate, so that it consisted of
T. S. Hall, Walter Russell Hall,
Pattison and John Ferguson,
afterwards a Commonwealth
Senator, who bought his share
for £26,000 and broke it up
among his friends.
+ +
It was not easy going. So
soon as the value of the fabulous
mountain was clear they had to
fight jumping claim after jumping
claim, some of the cases going
to the Privy Council. They had
to solve the problem of building
up a town which expanded until
it had 16,000 milling people in
it amid rocky ranges and with
approaches so steep that when a
railway came to be built to it in
the late ’nineties it was necessary
to use cog-rail rack-engines up
the Razorback,
They had also problems of
mining which were unique and
of treatment which were haras-
sing, since every device known
to the science of extraction
seemed to be tried without giving
a recovery of more than 60 per
cent, of the gold. Eventually
they invented their own pro-
cesses, the culmination being the
economical chlorination method
perfected by Captain G. A.
Richard, the inventive genius of
the mine. This method enabled
ore containing only two or three
dwts. to be stripped of its riches.
By the end of five years Mt.
Morgan was a million-pound
company with its shares rocket-
ing to ruinous boom prices—
£l7 ss. in 1888, and that year
paying out nearly £BOO,OOO in
dividends at the rate of 225. a
share.
Contrary to many expecta-
tions, there were no more Mount
Morgans in the vicinity. Nature
had piled all her riches in
one vast heap within a square
mile. The whole countryside
round about was pitted with
holes without more return than
the few grains which used to
come out of the dish or an odd
field of alluvial, like that at the
Dee Rush which lightened the
poverty of hungry miners in
1903-4, when the mine was half
shut-down for want of water.
Before the first company
closed down in 1927 and
was reorganised, Mt. Morgan in
44 years had treated 9,307,938
tons of ore yielding 5,345,0000 z.
of gold and 140,000 tons of
copper. Its discovery had a tre-
mendous impact on the history
of Queensland, commercially
and otherwise. It added
£20',000,000 of wealth to the
State’s coffers during those years
of its prime. Its band of ad-
ministrators directors like
Walter Hall, D’Arcy, R. S.
Archer, R. G. Casey, W. Kelso
King and Vincent Dowling ; its
experts. Captain Richard, John
Dally, last of the great Aus-
tralian mine-“captains,” Seale,
Somerset, Roger Lisle, Hum-
phreys, Magnus —revolutionised
and gave economy to the
processes for treating the
variety of types of refractory. ore
which gave them experience
(and headaches) unprecedented
in the world of mining.
The new company which
•eventually took over Mt.
Morgan has restored it to its old
prestige if not to its former posi-
tion of glittering splendor. When
the old company went out in
1927 it was believed that the
reserves of ore which might be
treatable some day would be
about 8,000,000 tons; but the
rising price of metals has vastly
extended that estimate.
Today the company digs up
about 2,500,000 tons of rock
and detritus a year, discards
about a million and a half tons
of waste, treats about 900,000
tons of sulphide-ore. It treats
material with an average gold
assay of about 2.2dwt. of gold,
0.7 p.c. copper. And last year
it produced 5584 tons of copper,
72,9250 z. of gold, 24,2500 z. of
silver, giving it an income greater
than that which it earned in
many a year of its greatest glory
in the ’eighties.
Last year the gross was
£2,453,023, but expenses were
up, too —the day when the pay
was 7s. a day for laborers, Bs.
for technicians, is long over. Yet
the mine still produced a tidy
surplus of £385,000 on the year’s
work. Actually its book-value
was written up by over
£1,000,000 last year. The ore
reserves had grown by the end of
1952 to 14,500,000 tons, with an
average of 2.7dwt. gold and
1.02 p.c. copper —this outside
about 7,000,000 tons of pyritic
material which may be treatable.
Not far off £40,000,000-worth
of metal has come out of the
cocky-farm which the Gordons
are said to have been glad to
sell for £640.


Missing Friend
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE DICKINSON address un-
known.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
EMILY ELIZABETH DICKINSON of 1U
Flinders Street Mount Hawthorn Western
Australia has commenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court 01
Western Australia for Divorce on tne.
ground of separation of the parties for a
continuous period of not less than five
(5) years there being no reasonable liveli-
hood of cohabitation being resumed H
you desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perm
within thirty (80) clear days from the
date of this publication In default oi
your so doing the ease may proceed and
the Court will pronounce Judgment and
make Orders against you in your absence
DATED this 20th day of July, 195“-
O. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. LAV AN
& WALSH, of 29 Barrack Street, Perth,
Western Australia, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Aristocrat, winner of Sydney
Turf Club’s Cup last winter
carrying 8.11, is topweight for
the corresponding event to be
run at Rosehill this coming
Saturday, arid he is one of the
few real stayers of the mile-and-
a-half event. In view of his
recent defeats, his 9st. seems a
bit solid, but even so he would
seem to have a good chance be-
cause all except two or three of
the opposition are moderate per-
formers.
• • • •
Racing at Rosehill last Satur-
day seems to have ruled out the
prospects of First Century, who
had been favorite for the S.T.C.
Cup, and also ruled out Ben
Bow, Pressman and Britavah.
Idlewild’s win with 7.7 has
brought him right into the Cup
spotlight, and he has the handy
weight of 7.9 —if he can run the
mile and a half right out.
Alinga’s Grafton Cup win points
to the country-owned stayer
holding excellent prospects ; he
might win from Idlewild and
Off Hand.
The turf axiom “Weight stops
trains” applied to consistent
Iroquois in the S.T.C. £2OOO
Winter Handicap on Saturday.
Carrying 9.7, he made a game
effort to overtake the more
speedy and lighter-weighted
Karendi, but failed by about a
length, with Stirrup Cup third.
Karendi is one of the fastest
horses to compete in Sydney for
a couple of seasons. His time for
the seven furlongs, 1.24, was a
race-record, though a second and
a half outside Shannon’s course-
record, made in September,
1946.
Few big punters had a bet on
the Rosehill Corinthian Cup,
showing some wisdom, as it
went to 15-to-l Beau Caste. Bar
Royal Pretender, nothing got
near enough to make a race of
it with Beau Caste, whose prior
form had been mediocre.
In the Rosehill event restricted
to apprentices, the “kid” jockeys
staged a keen race over the mile
and a quarter of the Auburn
Graduation Stakes, and R. Con-
don got his mount, Ehrbar,
home in good style. She is a
Cape Race (imp.) filly from Hel-
bar by Brueghel (imp.) from
Moabar by Moabite (imp.), was
bred by Mrs. E. G. Duncombe,
and is raced by'Wally Watson,
of Nowra, and M. Phillips.
In recent months N.S.W.
country owners and trainers have
brought horses to Sydney to
contest Graduation Stakes, and
several country gallopers raced
at the Rosehill meeting. One
stable twice filled second-place,
with Talbingo (25 to 1) and
Prince Karingal (8 to 1), both
prepared by W. H. Baker. Tal-
bingo had scored at Hawkesbury
three days before the Rosehill
sprint. He possesses a stout
finishing run and could win at a
distance beyond six furlongs in
restricted company.
Nealing, Moonee Valley two-
year-old winner at one mile on
Saturday, and one of Mel-
bourne’s most promising young-
sters, is expected to contest the
Rosehill Guineas and the A.J.C.
Derby. Like all other two-year-
olds—they will be three years
old next Saturday—Nealing will
later have to prove whether he
is a stayer or not, but having
won at a mile is a strong point
in favor of staying possibilities.
Sydney racegoers were not
surprised when the grey filly
Ascham Lady opened her win-
ning account at her latest start,
in the Hawkesbury First Two-
year-old Maiden. Raced by R.
S. Burnstein, the youngster is
Oueensland-bred, being by im-
ported sire Cinque Ports from
War Blast, a mare by Light
Brigade,,(imp.) from Scintilla by
Flying Orb. Ascham Lady is
trained at Rosehill by Gordon
Horton.
. . * •
Though Royal Dot, winner of
the Second Two-year-old Maiden
at the latest Hawkesbury meet-
ing, belongs to the same family-
group as a noted quartet. Grey
Boots, King Ingoda, Howe and
Corinax (Auckland Cup), nobody
wanted her when she was offered
as a yearling at the Randwick
sales in the autumn of last year.
She went for 160gns., the buyer
being R. Willoughby, who
secured 14 to 1 for the filly’s
first success. The filly’s dam.
Dot Dash, is a Dashing Cavalier
mare from Spar tel by Treelare
(imp.) from Tarifa (imp.) by
Trafalgar. Dot Dash traces back
to Musket (imp.), sire of
Carbine.
New Zealanders Dalray (5-to-l
favorite) and Reformed (25 to 1)
ran first and third respectively
in the Melbourne Cup last year,,
with another from the
Dominion, Unfaan, fourth.
Already New Zealand owners
are making arrangements to have
another shot at this year’s
£14,550 Cup, and Reformed is
a certain visitor. The six-year-
old Probation (imp.) gelding had
8.5 last spring, and is similarly
handicapped this November. He
will be accompanied to Sydney
in mid-September by Royal
Tower aqd Countenance.
Horses with N.Z. after their
names engaged in this year’s
Melbourne Cup include Silver
King, 8.12 ; Windsor, 8.7 ; My
Hero, 8.6; Reformed, 8.5;
Earldom, 8.1 ; Fortnight, 7.11 ;
Lancaster, 7.7; Cortauld, 7.5.
The last-named, rising three-
years-old, is in M. McCarten’s
Randwick stable, and has been a
good performer in Sydney dur-
ing the season just about to close,
V.R.C. handicapper C. H.
Davis’s handicapping of the
rising three-year-olds in this
year’s Melbourne Cup is interest-
ing. That age-group has won 23
Cups, but no three-year-old has
been successful since Skipton
(1941), carrying 7.7, or 11b. over
weight-for-age (the 7.7 included
a 61b. penalty and lib. over-
weight), Mr. Davis is o‘f opinion
that Cromis will prove best of
the three-year-olds in the spring,
and has handicapped him at 7.6
(w.-f.-a.), which will be carried
by the winnei of either or both
Derbies. Magic Mountain, a
good two-year-old winner in
Melbourne, is regarded as in-
ferior by lib. only to Cromis,
while Cortauld is considered
best of the Sydney-trained three-
year-old Cup hopes; he also
has 7.5. Newhaven’s 7.13 is the
greatest weight carried to vic-
tory in the Melbourne Cup by a
(hree-year-old. Hall Mark and
Prince Foote each scored with
7.8.
The 1952 -53 racing has
ended, with no unusual features
except the doping cases and
their long-drawn-out inquiries.
Prize-money has been main-
tained in most centres, and some
clubs even increased stakes. In
Sydney Neville, Sellwood, W.
Cook, G. Moore, J. Thompson
and A. Mulley all rode 40 or
more winners, Sellwood topping
the list with 63. Randwick
trainer Tommy Smith, with his
big team, headed the trainers’
list with 54 successes, M. Mc-
Carten finishing second with 37.
Delville Wood (imp.), located
at Kia-Ora stud, Scone (N.S.W.),
was the most successful sire,
with 27 winners ; Midstream, of
the same stud, had 22 winners.
Net profit of the Q.T.C. for
the year ended June 30 was
£14,000, of which £5500 will go
in the heaviest slug for all racing
—taxation. Prizemoney for the
year was £140,075, a record.
Course maintenance for the
year was £42,951 ; totalisator tax
and fractions, £70,135 ; adminis-
trative and miscellaneous
expenses, £35,659.
Sons of Royal Gem continue
to do well in America, where the
1946 Caulfield Cup winner is at
stud. One, Royal Bay Gem,
winner of some $183,000 in
stakes, is fourth on the list of
American money - winners, top
place being held by the flying
grey, Native Dancer ($330,350).
Mai k-Ye-Well had earned
$199,050 till the middle of July
and Royal Vale $188,850.
Native Dancer has started seven
times this season for six wins and
a close second in the Kentucky
Derby to Dark Star, another of
the Royal Gems.
Owners and trainers at times
are hard to follow. At Canter-
bury last Saturday week three of
the eight events were for maiden
two-year-olds, and so many
accepted that emergencies were
provided by the S.T.C. Not all
the emergencies secured a run,
which is a regular experience,
and trainers of these were not
happy about having to return
horses home without a start. Yet
for the Rosehill meeting last
Saturday 53 two-year-olds were
"Try that for height."
Weighted and 38 were with-
drawn.
With the big races of the
spring nearer at hand, the A.J.C.
and the S.T.C. will need to cater
on a bigger scale for doubles’-
tote punters. An indication of
the business being handled was
given at Rosehill last Saturday,
when a record £34,590 was put
through the doubles’-tote, while
the win-and-place machines
handled £lOl,OOO. The amount
the doubles’-tote handled gives
some idea of the volume of busi-
ness doubles’ bookmakers must
have done when they were going
strong—and offering shockingly
cramped prices to punters!
* * *
The Chinese Soccer players
now in Sydney are not a repre-
sentative side, but a Hong Kong
club team. For all that, the code
is pretty strong there, as in other
Eastern parts where the influence
of British Services teams, with
their semi-professional players,
has been strong. At Sydney
Showground on Saturday the
visitors beat an Australian team
4-1. Crowd was close to 35,000.
* * * *
With Collingwood and Essen-
don unlikely to lose their games,
the “big match” in Melbourne’s
eyes on Saturday was Geelong
and Footscray, at Geelong. Hav-
ing led the V.F.L. competition
from the start, Geelong expected
a hard match from the Bulldogs,
who’ve been flashing away in
racing finishes to beat opponents.
This time Geelong did the flash-
ing-away. The last quarter
began with only two points be-
tween them. Geelong’s Rayson
was swung from wing to centre
half-forward and got three quick
goals, and from there on Gee-
long were never headed, finish-
ing 11.12 to 8.10.
Essendon disposed of South
Melbourne, 12.11-8.14, and
moved into second place on per-
centages ; Collingwood pushed
North Melbourne out of the four
with 13.16 to 8.17. Closest
finish was Fitzroy’s 13.12 to
Richmond’s 13.7, Carlton beat
Melbourne by 12.24 to 10.10, and
St. Kilda beat Hawthorn,
9.13-4.14.
* * *
The Wallabies had their best
win of the tour when they beat
the strong Western Province
team, *at Capetown, on Satur-
day. Australian forwards were
outpushed and outrucked, and
the game developed into one of
those grim South African clashes
in which each side probed
magnificent defence. Johnny
Bosler (half) found a weakness.
twice, and exploited it. Score,
13-11.
Sydney Rugby Union leaders,
Eastern Suburbs, beat Eastwood
23-9, thanks largely to forwards
who played a disciplined, tight,
classical forward game. They
usually do. Some day the Aus-
tralian selectors will take official
cognisance of this fact and
explore the reasons.
In other club games, Manly
beat Parramatta, 28-8 ; Drum-
moyne beat Gordon, 8-3 ; Uni-
versity beat St. George, 13-3 and
Northern Suburbs beat Rand-
wick, 17-11.
Sydney University five-eighth,
Keith Gudsell, who filled that
position for the All Blacks’ South
African tour in 1949, and who
was, to say the least, dnlucky in
not being chosen for the trials
for the Australian team, still has
a chance of playing international
Rugby this year. He is back in
New Zealand, and available for
the N.Z. team which goes to
England in September.
♦ ♦ *
The English selectors made
two changes from the Manchester
side. Wardle, who had done just
about all that could be asked of
him (he took 4-7 in Australia’s
8-35 debacle at Manchester), was
discarded with the same apparent
ingratitude with which his Pick-
wickian namesake was once
betrayed by Mr. Alfred Jingle.
The selectors, however, clearly
consider the younger Tony
Lock, who replaced him, the
better bowler; they had picked
him for the earlier Tests, but a
split finger prevented his playing,
and Wardle got a chance.
" • • •
Fred Trueman, 12th man at
Manchester, was out, too, and
Statham, who had played in the
second Test, was the new drink-
carrier. His omission meant that
England relied mainly on a
Surrey attack (Bedser, Lock and
Laker). Australia made one
change—Benaud, who was left
out after playing in the first and
second Tests, was back, in the
side instead of Hill.
Hassett has won the toss each
Test so far this series, and in
all has won eight times out of
nine against England. Against
Goddard, the West Indian, he
cut even (two each; injured,
Hassett didn’t play in the third
Test, but Morris called correctly
in his place). He’s won more
than he’s lost against South
Africa.
The one toss against England
which Hassett has lost was that
for the fourth Test, 1950-51: the
Test in which Australia defeated,
by an innings and 13 runs, an
England side which had to rely
on three bowlers, Bedser, Brown
and Warr, after Bailey and
Wright had received injuries
while batting which put them
out of action for several weeks.
This was the match in which
Iverson put up his best bowling
effort ever (6-27), and caused a
second-innings rout.
Reverting to Manchester, the
last time Australia won there
was back in 1902, the match pro-
ducing one of the closest of Test
finishes. With the first two Tests
drawn and the third jvon by Aus-
tralia, the result of the series, as
it turned out, hinged on the
fourth Test (for England won the
last). Australia, 1-173 at lunch,
were all out for 299, but disposed
of England for 262. At their
second try they made only 86,
leaving England 124 to get. Eng-
land failed by three runs.
• • • •
During the playing of the
Manchester Test the “Times”
printed a letter from the “Infor-
mation Officer, Manchester Cor-
PQration,” defending the city
against the “outworn legend”
that it always rains there. Man-
chester’s annual rainfall, he
claimed, is less than 30in.—
“about two-thirds that of many
of our holiday resorts.” But
Manchester, it seems, has a
“monsoon season” in July and
-August, when the rainfall is
often more than double that of
other months (but other English
cities also share the “monsoon”).
So, even if the Tests are
rearranged, suggests the “Times”
contributor, the third Test,
wherever played, might still be
just as often washed-out.
* * * *
Fighting for the N.S.W.
featherweight championship at
Leichhardt, Ken Wenman (9.0)
and Trevor King turned
on 15 rounds of action. Wen-
man’s good left hand won for
him early, but King finished very
fast, and earned the points de-
cision—both the right decision
and, more remarkably, popular.


Mining
IN THE MATTER of an Application for
a Lease by WILLIAM JOHN BLOOM-
FIELD RONALD BEAMISH KNIGHT
and JOHN MARTIN dated the 28th day
of February 1944 and IN THE MATTER
of an objection lodged by ALFRED
GEORGE ROWE dated the 22nd day of
October 1952 and IN THE MATTER of
The Mining Act 1929 of the State of
Tasmania TO WILLIAM JOHN BLOOM-
FIELD, RONALD BEAMISH KNIGHT
and JOHN MARTIN formerly of Moina
in Tasmania.—TAKE NOTICE that an
objection to your Application for a
Mineral Lease in respect of 80 acres at
Mount Pelion in Tasmania formerly
No. 11969/M has been made by Alfred
George Rowe of Sheffield in Tasmania
Garage Proprietor as follows: —That you
have abandoned the area for the past few
years and that there is no marking out
notice posted up no datem peg or any
marks to identify the area in question
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that
you are requested to attend in person or
by your Solicitor before the Warden of
Mines at the Courthouse Devonport in
Tasmania on Friday the 4th day of
September 1953 at 10a.m. in support of
your Application and in default of your
so appearing the objection will be heard
and determined in your absence. DATED
the 13th day of July, 1953.—L. C. P.
WILSON, Warden of Mines.
Divorce Notice •
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA— In Divoece.
TO LINDSAY LESLIE BALDWIN address
unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
NANCY JANE BALDWIN has com-
menced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
Divorce on the ground of desertion If
you desire to defend such proceedings
you must file your Defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within 30 clear days from the date of
this publication In default of your so
doing the case may proceed and the Court
will pronounce Judgment and make Orders
against you in your absence. DATED this
18th day of June, 1953. —Q. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar. RICHARD S. HAYNES & CO.,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
A Beginner in Flying
Recavery
From the Spin
By OLAF RUHEN
A YEAR ago I went by air
to Dunedin, in New Zea-
land, arriving there at the
end of seventeen hours of
practically continuous flying
from Sydney. I had previously
approached Dunedin from every
direction on foot, horseback and
bicycle, by car, bus, taxi, train,
ship and motor-bike, but this
was the first time I had returned
to my birthplace by air.
Nevertheless my view of the
terrain was completely familiar,
especially as we approached the
green and pleasant country that
is Taieri airfield, for it was there
that I learned to fly.
It would be more correct to
say that there my education in
flying was commenced, for when
I left there I travelled a long
way before my mind could come
at some compatibility with a
seat up in the clouds.
As the Lockheed touched
down I raced over a lot of
memories which had been dor-
mant for a decade ; and yet there
were good fellows and good
times in them. Most vividly,
however, I retraced the circum-
stances of my third solo flight.
It was war-time, of course. In •
fact it was February, 1942, In
that month Singapore fell, Dar-
win was bombed, the British
withdrew in Burma, California
was shelled by a Jap submarine,
salvage of most of Niagara’s
gold was completed. But we, in
uniform, knew very little and
cared less about the progress of
the war, for we were being intro-
duced, painfully, it is true, to
the idiosyncrasies of the heavier-
than-air flying-machine, the
Tiger Moth.
My first solo had been the
usual heart-in-the-mouth affair
of triumph in the face of
disaster, of a racing pulse and a
kangaroo-landing. My second
was devoted in its entirety to
performing circuits and landings
in a hopeful kind of way. sut
the third was a different matter
entirely.
I went down to the flight-
room rather doubtful of getting
near an aircraft, for the weather
was dull and threatening, and
there was more than a possi-,
bility of an intensification of the
south-west wind that was already
drifting with some determination
up the long exposure of the open
Taieri Plains. (The airfield is at
the northern end of the Plains,
crowded snugly, and quite
safely, against some low hills
separating the fertile plain from
the city.) However, when I
arrived at the hangar I found
that my instructor, Pilot-Officer
Wood, a genial fellow two-thirds
my age, but in that environment
vastly my superior, and com-
manding my utmost respect, was
on leave.
I had been allotted to a new
man whom I will call Hender-
son, for no better reason than
that I forget his real name. He
introduced himself briefly to me,
and recommended that I look in
the authorisation book, where I
found that he had put me down
for aircraft 806, in which I was
to carry out exercises 6,7, 8, 10,
12, 15 and 16.
Translated, these consisted of
medium turns, taking off into
wind, powered approach and
landing, spinning, side-slipping,
steep turns and climbing turns —
a programme which might be
reckoned almost unambitious,
except for the fact that it was
the first time I had practised any
but the first three. The nigger
in the woodpile was sheltering
right behind Number 10, which
was “spinning.”
I had, of course, been put
through the paces by Pilot-
Officer Wood, and the procedure
was simple enough. It was no
trouble at all to spin an aircraft.
The trick was getting out of it,
or, as the books had it, recovery
from the spin. A week earlier
a Tiger Moth had spun in from
some considerable height, and
the pilot had been killed. But
of course I knew very well that
one had only to do the right
thing and nothing of the sort
could happen.
And so, utilising the oppor-
tunity to practise my climbing-
turns, I flew up to a height of
5000 ft., well away from the air-
field, and reluctantly checked
with the altimeter that it was
time to begin the exercise.
The drill was to look all about
and make sure the coast Was
clear, particularly in the sky be-
low the aircraft, and then to
make a sharp turn to port or star-
board and re-examine all the
blind spots. In the course of this
manoeuvre I noted, directly
below me, a farmhouse, neat.
well-tended, a true little haven
in peaceful surroundings of
beauty. I couldn’t, I thought,
take risks right above the head
of such a sterling citizen. No
matter what happened to me, it
would be unfair to drag him into
it. I decided to fly on a little
way.
Further south there was a wild
and unpopulated area, and I
salved my conscience (of some
slight suspicion of thl crime of
procrastination) by flying directly
there. ’ I looked all about me,
below, and for good measure
above ; and (hen turned at right-
angles and looked again. And
below me, this time, was the
lake.
It would be, I felt, a decided
imposition on the crash-crews to
immolate myself in the middle
of a lake in weather so incle-
ment and so unsuitable for
swimming. I turned away again
and made for the hills, not
unnaturally climbing a little
higher to make up for the les-
sened space between me and
what we, in the fishing fleet, used
to refer to as “the hard,” with,
as I now realised, excellent
reason. While I was at it I
climbed up a couple of thou-
sand feet extra.
Self-analysis now brbught it
home to me that I was being
plain silly, so without much
more ado and dither I closed
down the throttle, pulled the
stick back, and, as the little Tiger
came to a standstill and lifted a
despairing nose, much in the
manner of a cow in a bog, I
kicked, rather gently, at the
rudder-bar.
With my heart in my mouth I
felt myself, complete with air-
craft, go into the spin. There
is a peculiar sensation which
follows the committal of an air-
craft to a spin. The mental sen-
sations record a lurch and a
dive. But the pilot, sitting in his
machine, sees the earth (that
impersonal picture far below
him) spring to a vertical posi-
tion. It is, to the eye, as though
the earth, or a chart thereof, is
lifted magically from the floor
and pinned to a wall. This par-
ticular chart —and he has to
remind himself that it is, in
reality, solid earth —is pinned by
the middle, and even before it
reaches the vertical position it
starts spinning on this axis, the
pin. The initial lurch is coinci-
dent with the first spasmodic
movements of the earth to its
vertical position.
On the pin it spins faster and
faster, and all the instruments in
the cockpit jazz about in its
company in weird, arhythmic
choreography. In the midst of
the confusion the pilot remains
centrally located until he begins
the recovery, when the sensa-
tions become complicated.
It is a long time since I have
spun an aircraft, but for a
period I carried out the
manoeuvre with a determined
application, if seldom with zest;
and the spectacle of the earth
pinned vertically at a point im-
mediately ahead of and below
the nose of the aircraft and
spinning on this axis, first
accelerating and then decelerat-
ing, never varied.
Of that first occasion, though,
I am not so sure. My sensations
were tangled a little with my
emotions. And actually I doubt
whether that particular spin was
much more than a sedate and
careful spiral dive. I don’t
know. It seemed like a spin at
the time. I didn’t, however, let
it wind up very far. I pulled
out of it within a short distance
and, sweating slightly, but elate,
like a hunter with his first tiger
safely in the bag, reconsidered
the situation.
That had been a spin to port.
I took the Tiger up again and
spun to starboard. I came out
all right, but I was still unsatis-
fied, and privately I considered
that I had been much too afraid
at the beginning. So I went up
for the third time. This time I
kicked it into a smart spin to
port and let it wind up. Prob-
ably it was to three or four revo-
lutions of the falling aircraft. I
dropped three thousand feet on
the spin, so it was fair enough,
but still very gentle. I repeated
again to starboard.
I had plenty of time for think-
ing between each spin, because
I climbed the Tiger up again
(practising exercise 16—climb-
ing-turns—as I went) and faith-
fully went through the motions
of seeing that the sky was clear.
About the fourth or fifth time I
realised that I had to fly south
almost all the time if I wanted
to begin the exercise in the same
area, and I deduced that the
wind was rising.
I still wasn’t completely satis-
fied with my spinning, although
I had more than carried out the
necessary exercises, because I
was scared stiff as I went into
the spin, and my agitation rose
to a very high level indeed as I
sat there watching the whirling
earth and letting the spin wind-
up. I had a vague idea that if
a spin were allowed to develop
for too long it turned, mys-
teriously, into a flat spin from
which there was no recovery;
but I had no inkling as to how
I might recognise a flat spin if
one developed, and I wasn’t able
to orient myself or my aircraft
exactly in relation to an earth
which assumed such unlikely
postures.
So at the fifth attempt I de-
cided to spin with full power
on. This is a variation requiring
that the aircraft be put into a
very steep climbing position
indeed, or so it seemed to me;
and it is productive of a much
more vicious spin, and therefore
I pulled out much sooner than
I had intended to. I can
remember gasping more than a
little, and forging straight ahead
in level flight for perhaps five
minutes before recommencing
my climb. But I spun to port
and starboard once again, with
the throttle open, and each time
dropped five thousand feet by
the altimeter before completing
the recovery. That done, I felt
I could go back with honor.
I was surprised to find that
the airfield was much nearer
than I had thought. I looked at
my watch and found I had been
away two hours and more, but
even so, I had not expected to
find the little field, usually so
busy, quite so bare of aircraft.
Then I checked the signal area
and saw that the “Washout
Flag” was flaunting its black
and white squares. Operations
had been called in because of
the weather.
In spite of the heavy wind I
made a good approach. At
least, I started to, but my cal-
culations were upset by a little
group of ground-crewmen who
had collected in just the spot
where I had intended to touch
down. It didn’t even occur to
me that they were there waiting
for me, to hold down my wings
in the full gale that by' then
exceeded the stalling-speed of the
Tiger Moth. I sideslipped away
and picked myself out another
spot, I was intrigued, and a
fraction annoyed, perhaps, to
see that they all came running
there, too. But I was too clever
for them, and landed before
they arrived. At least, my wheels
touched the ground.
Then for some reason my
Tiger headed up into the sky
again at a steep angle, at the
same time dropping her star-
board wing. I gave her hard
right rudder, but it made no
difference. So I opened the
throttle, right at the top of a
very graceful parabola eighty
feet above the turf, executed
what I believed to be a type of
wingover, and headed straight
for the ground.
I saw the starboard wingtip
crumple very slowly, very
clearly, in a very detailed kind
of mental slow-motion which
has remained with me —then the
engine, and just as the port wing
was ready to hit I spread my
face on the crash-pad, painfully.
When I opened my eyes my feet
were on the grass and the engine,
in two pieces side by side, was
packed into the front seat. At
that, it was lucky. My top den-
ture was in thirteen pieces, and
they were all in position in my
mouth.
The end of the rather involved
and quite spectacular manoeuvre
was, of course, an incipient spin
close to the ground. It made my
eighth spin for the day. There
was a rather lucky circumstance.
As I climbed out I saw a pair of
switches swinging to and fro on a
piece of fabric, and turned them
off, though they had little con-
nection with the aircraft or the
ignition at that juncture. I also
turned off the petrol, after this
Yeminder, though the cock had
no connection at all with the
tank. As a matter of fact the
tank wasn’t even there. And
then I climbed out with the fire-
extinguisher in my hand and
for these things I was exonerated.
The rest of the story was a
delightful spell in hospital with
nurses who pampered me (“Our
First Crash-Victim!”), a few
days of leave, and still another
new instructor, Henderson hav-
ing washed his hands of me.
“Pranged the best bloody kite
on the station,” he said, and re-
fused to speak to me.
When I started ifying again I
spent as much time as I could
spare practising recovery from
spins. Later, I took my final
flying-test under the guidance of
a Flight-Lieutenant Cadman, a
masterly fellow whose authority
struck fear, properly conditioned
with respect, into those of us
who still regarded the aircraft
as unpredictable, temperamental
and untrustworthy. Cadman’s
method of examination was re-
tailed in awe-struck whispers
throughout the station. The last
exercise in his gamut was a spin
ordered (preferably over hills)
from a height of about 5000 ft.
Once in the spin Cadman pulled
out a notebook, and, though it
was practically impossible be-
cause of the wind in that open
cockpit, began to make notes.
The shivering pupil was thus
placed on the horns of a
dilemma. If he attempted re-
covery without an instruction,
the response was a biting rep-
rimand through the voice-tube.
If he didn’t, the hills came un-
comfortably close. Lip to date,’
pupils had all attempted an early
recovery.
My test was deplorable. In
addition to making all the mis-
takes I made habitually, I per-
petrated others at which even I
was horrified. But when it came
to the spin I relaxed. When the
flight-lieutenant began to enter
up his notes I looked happily
over the side. We were very
close to the ground indeed when
he looked up casually and said,
“Right. Bring her out of it.”
When the Tiger rolled to a stop
he looked at me a long time
before he spoke. He said, “Be-
ginning with your medium turns
it was a shocking exhibition.
You lost 300 ft. on each turn.
Your steep turns were in-
credible.”
“I didn’t lose any height on
the steep turns,” I said.
“True,” he admitted. “You
skidded so much as to equate the
result of the fantastic position
of your nose.” He talked for
several minutes, failing to de-
scribe my landing at all, for
which I was thankful.
“But the recovery from the
spin was good,” he said. “You
handled that with authority.
You were in complete control
and because of that I’m going
to pass you. As a matter of
fact,” he added honestly, “I was
surprised.”
Well, if he liked to feel that
way he could, I supposed. But
as for myself, I wasn’t surprised
at all. Not the least little bit.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
"BIG FOUR" PRELIMINARIES
Overseas comment in general
expects that a “Big Four” meet-
ing on the “top level” will be
held eventually, though the belief
is hedged about with “ifs” and
“buts” galore.
The preliminaries to date
make an interesting and (to
those with a wry sense of humor)
a diverting curtain-raiser.
This can be said to begin at
the point where President Eisen-
hower made his great speech
(noted in “Uncabled Additions”
on May 20), which was hailed
as having completely stolen the
thunder of the Soviet “peace”
propagandists. He put the
responsibility for the “cold
war” and its offshoots squarely
on Russia by name, and, listing
a series of steps toward real
peace (beginning with Korea),
he insisted on some deed, in-
stead of mere words, that would
indicate good faith behind
Russia’s “peace” pretensions.
The speech was described with
the customary Churchillian
finality as a “massive and mag-
nificent statement of our case.”
The President was generally
held to have taken the initiative
away from the Kremlin and
launched a genuine peace move-
ment.
The next significant step in
these preliminaries was taken in
the House of Commons by the
British Prime Minister. In a
speech which received an even
more tumultuous general wel-
coming than that accorded the
Eisenhower address, Sir Winston
voiced a widely-felt wish for a
“Big Four” meeting. The
speech was interpreted, more
than a little wishfully, as saying
that there had been a sufficiently
radical change in the attitude
of the rulers of Russia to make
a personal meeting worth while,
and that from it might flow a
generation of peace and amity.
Actually, Sir Winston did not
go quite as far as all that, but
so the speech was almost every-
where interpreted, followed by
an 'avalanche of insistence —in
Europe and Britain particularly
—on holding the meeting at
once.
One lone questioning voice
was noted in Britain—that of
London “Economist.” It com-
mitted the heresy, in that
atmosphere, of doubting the wis-
dom of the speech, whether it
was well-timed, whether it could
have any other result than
widening still further the already
perceptible and very dangerous
breach in the U.S.-British rela-
tions.
At about this point of the
preliminaries President Eisen-
hower again—pointedly and
most significantly—took over the
initiative by inviting the Prime
Ministers of Britain and France
to meet him in a general-policy
conference at Bermuda. Both
Britain and France accepted.
Sir Winston saying of the in-
tended “Big Three” meeting “It
is my main hope that we may
take a definite step forward to
a meeting of far greater import”
—meaning, of course, a top-level
meeting of the West and Russia.
The Kremlin then took a
hand, possibly with results.
Through its radio and journa-
listic mouthpieces it hotly con-
demned Bermuda, after which
something very like comedy
entered into the proceedings.
Having accepted, the French im-
mediately got rid of their Gov-
ernment, leaving them with no
Prime Minister.to send, a state
of things which lasted the best
part of six weeks ; and then, just
when a Prime Minister and
Government had been decided
on by the French, the British
Prime Minister suddenly became
ill and was medically ordered
out of action for at least a
month.
In the midst of these unusual
happenings, however, one de-
cidedly effective shot had been
fired by the West in the “peace
offensive.” On the U.S. Presi-
dent’s initiative —and in accord
with his maintained insistence on
a Soviet act of good faith as a
prerequisite to any further step
—the Western “Three” had
jointly made their “showdown”-
approach to Russia for an
Austrian peace treaty.
This provided a real test of
the genuineness or otherwise in
the overnight change for the
better in Russia’s attitude which
many professed to detect. The
Kremlin’s summary rejection of
the approach put an entirely
different complexion on things
altogether, the upshot of which
“Die Weltwoche,” Zurich
“JUMP NICELY NOW, LION!”
has been the complete flatten-
ing of the grandiose idea of a
“Big Four” palaver at once, and
substitution by the much less
spectacular meetings of Foreign
Ministers.
Whatever may be made of the
sequence of these singular hap-
penings, Sir Winston Churchill’s
illness has been curiously re-
ferred to in some comments,
ostensibly to deny motive. For
instance, “New York Times”:
“The diplomatic illness is a
familiar thing, but it is impos-
sible to believe that Winston
Churchill, man of action and
quick decision that he is, could
ever have a diplomatic illness or
a diplomatic weariness.”
Again, “London officials
[London “Sunday Times” re-
port] are emphasising the fact
that the [“Big Three”] confer-
ence is only postponed [by the
“sudden inactivity his doctors
have imposed” on Sir Winston
Churchill], and that there is no
ulterior political motive.”
And again, a New York
“Herald Tribune” correspondent
suggested that “there could very
well be political, as well as
physical, reasons for postponing
the Bermuda meeting.”
“Manchester Guardian” acidly
commented on the intention of
the Western leaders to meet at
Bermuda; “Their journey on or
over the sea is symbolic. In a
sense the Great Powers are all
at sea”,.;.
The following are general
comments bearing on aspects
of these preliminaries, concern-
ing which the hope still persists
that eventually the parties will
all sit down more or less amic-
ably together.
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“With his customary gift
of phrase, Sir Winston Churchill
called the death of Stalin
‘the supreme event.’ He said it
heralded a change of 'attitude
and, he hoped, of mood. How
far that hope can be safely
allowed to be the basis of policy
is by far the most important
question to be settled,”
* * * *
“ “Manchester Guardian
“Moscow is certainly under great
temptation. Consider how the
world must appear at present to
its eyes. By giving away nothing
substantial, merely by soothing
words, it has set in motion the
events leading, to the [prelimi-
nary] conference, which most
of the world interprets as a con-
ference wished by Europe on an
unwilling America. A strong new
wave of feeling has been started
in Western Europe against fol-
lowing too doggedly the policies
of building up the European
Defence Community. The argu-
ment is that at least one more
effort should be made to test
Russia and to see whether the
E.D.C. is really necessary. ‘Le
Monde’ has put the European
feeling succinctly. Washington,
it says, was the leader in the
policy of the cold war. London
is trying to become the leader
in the policy of disengagement,
and Washington must follow.”
The'same: “It is easy to see
how Moscow could set about
enlarging the present divisions
in the West. All it needs to do
is to continue to speak reason-
able words and to refuse reason-
able compromises. So great is
the desire for peace that many
people, even after all that has
happened, may value Moscow’s
words more than its deeds....
many people in Western Europe
will be convinced that it is
America which stands in the way
of pacification.....
“Mr. Malenkov has always
been exceedingly interested in
atomic warfare. Perhaps what
he really wants is three br four
years to build up his stockpile.
“The new course is thus full
of possible danger for the
Western Powers as well as full
of hope. The American anxieties
are not as blind as is sometimes
supposed.”
* * * * *
Londo n “Economist:
“The Russians seem to be re-
verting to the attitudes and
actions of the Stalin era ; there
is now plenty of evidence to
suggest that the softening after
the great man died was for tac-
tical reasons of even shorter
range than had generally been
hoped,”
• r • •
The same: “The rightness of
the American approach as taken
by President Eisenhower is now
being proven by the Russians
themselves ; they have rejoiced at
the breaches in Allied ranks.”
The same: “Now that the
Russians have shown that, in
spite of the internal changes
after Stalin’s death, they are not
prepared for a real settlement,
the drawing-up of an Allied plan
for China comes long before
chasing the mirage of a meeting
with Mr. Malenkov.”
* * * *
New York “Herald Tribune”
commentator , David Lawrence :
“A meeting with Malenkov
could be a fateful affair. If it
proved fruitless, it would demon-
strate to those abroad who have
had unbounded faith in the
sincerity of the Russians that
mere conversation doesn’t solve
anything. If, on the other hand,
war came in the next few years,
such a meeting would be historic
evidence that the Allies had
sought every honorable method
of maintaining peace.”
* * * ♦
“New York Times ” editorial
comment: t!> rhe world is
clearly at one of those
critical turns that call for
the most wise and careful hand-
ling. It would be tragic if an
impatient act destroyed what-
ever fragile chance there is of
easing the tension. It would be
more tragic—and this is the real
danger of the present situation —
if the painfully achieved
solidarity of the Western nations
were undermined for the sake of
an illusion —the bright mirage of
a false peace.”
• • • •
Same: “These conferences are
no light matter, they are instru-
ments for survival. If the
talks are successful, if the
Russians thereafter give the
required guarantee not to engage
in further conspiracies against
the welfare of mankind, then we
may ring the bells and blow the
whistles. But we had better wait
a while. The proof is still to
come.”
Swing to Churchill
A pronounced and evidently
increasing swing to the Churchill
Conservative Government is
noted by London “Economist,”
commenting on “another re-
markable success” at a recent
by-election.
In this case the swing was
evident in a greatly increased
majority for the Conservative
side, its new candidate doing
even better than the previous
one, who’d had a big personal
following.
Moreover, new voters who
had come to the electorate since
the previous election were be-
lieved to “represent an addi-
tional Labor force.” And Labor
had a very good candidate.
“On the national scale, such
a swing, compared with the last
general election, would give the
Conservatives a handsome
majority at Westminster.”
Incidentally, the by-election
further indicated that the once-
great Liberal party has just
about had it.
Egypt: Thin Hope
For all the bluster and “inci-
dents,” the Cairo correspondent
of London “Daily Telegraph”
sees at least a thin hope for a
deal with the Neguib-Nasser
military Republican Government
in Egypt:
“As soldiers, Col. Nasser and
his associates are fully aware
that if they carry intransigence
to extremes, and put into effect
their earlier threats of guerrilla
warfare, this can end only with
the extinction of their regime,
and possibly of themselves.
“It can be argued that a
strong military Government is
in a better position to adopt a
compromise course, which might
be unpopular with the poli-
ticians, but would give Egypt
the reality of sovereignty in the
Canal zone. It could, for
instance, agree to a pact under
which British troops would
evacuate the zone, leaving only
a body of technicians to run the
bases under the orders of the
British Government.
“Such a solution, it appears,
would have the support of the
United States, and of the Paki-
stani and Indian Governments.
These are the three countries to
which Egypt has looked for
‘mediation.’ ”
The correspondent, however,
admits that there is no actual
proof of willingness to accept
“a reasonable compromise.”
On the strength of interviews
with them, London “Daily
Herald’s” diplomatic corres-
pondent declaims;
“Do not think of the General
[Neguib] and his colleagues as a
bunch of fanatical firebrands,
hating Britain and spoiling for
a row. Nothing could be
farther from the truth. I know
that some of them —including
the General —have made some
foolish speeches. They are not
the only ones. All impressed
me as level-headed, serious, very
honest men, anxiously facing the
difficulties of a difficult situa-
tion.”
In the event of a final break-
down in negotiations, the corres-
pondent believes that even then
they would do their utmost to
avoid any head-on violent clash.
Their aim would be, by com-
plete “non-co-operation,” to
bring Britain to realise that,
isolated and boycotted, the base
would be worse than useless; a
liability rather than an asset.
They would try to restrain their
people from actual violence.
Iliere can, however, be no
doubt of the depth of national
feeling. “A spark could touch off
an explosion,” and “any Gov-
ernment which tried to suppress
the explosion would be blown
away.”
That being so, the corres-
pondent holds that there are
only two courses left, “there is
no middle way”:
“The first alternative would
be to come to some agreement
which the Egyptians will feel to
be a real ending of the 70-years
British occupation.
“That would mean trusting the
Egyptians to co-operate loyally
both in the maintenance of the
base and in its use if need arose.
I am certain that Neguib and
his colleagues are more than
ready to give that co-operation,
once they feel that their
sovereignty has been fully
restored.
“The other alternative is to


You buy your last blade
when you buy a
ROLLS RAZOR
the world's most famous safety
%
m
is
*
Automatic built-in strop and
"hone in compact stainless steel case
You buy no more razor blades because the single hollow*
ground, hand-made blade supplied with each ROLLS RAZOR
lasts for years. It simply does not need changing. This
blade, like every part of your ROLLS RAZOR, is the work of
skilled British craftsmen who have made precision-finished
shaving equipment for over 25 years—using only the finest
Sheffield Steel.
Keep shaving smoothly ever after—with a
ROLLS RAZOR
The purchase you'll wish you'd made years ago!
give up negotiating, to get
‘tough’; to keep the troops
where they are and to get ready
for the clash, which would
pretty certainly come. Then
march on Cairo, land in
Alexandria, reoccupy the whole
country. There could be no
stopping halfway.
“And then? Then, for one
thing, goodbye to the friendship
and confidence of the whole
Arab and Asian world for a
generation. And, as for the base,
we might just as well pack-up or
blow-up the installations for all
the use they could be to us.
“But those are the only
alternatives. And we may as
well face the facts now.” <
Ungoverned France
“We [France] are the only
country in the world which
since the Korean war has not
managed to put its house in
order.” — M. Paul Reynaud.
“The real trouble is not our
budgetary deficit, the feebleness
of our currency, the bogged-
down state of our economy and
our social troubles. Our trouble
is that France really is not being
governed. The gravest danger is
not that France is sick. It is that
France has no doctor and can-
not keep one when it gets one.
It is not the fever that is killing
us. It is our capriciousness. But
after devil-may-care caprices
passionate outbursts may fol-
low.” — “L’Eclair des Pyrenees’ *
Even more than the French
themselves, who take neither
their politics (the greatest cur-
rent joke in international affairs)
nor their politicians very seri-
ously, outside onlookers overseas
have lately been more busy than
usual trying to analyse and ex-
plain the causes of France’s
practically chronic state of
domestic, particularly Govern-
mental, confusion.
This state of France led
Reynaud (making conditions
under which he would under-
take the inherently temporary
Premiership job) to apply to his
country the old term “the sick
man of Europe.” It has led
others, in their analyses, into
showing that not merely some-
thing but next-door to just
about everything is rotten in the
state of France.
London “Daily Telegraph,”
putting it in other words, agrees
with the quoted finding of
“L’Eclair des Pyrenees.” The
“Telegraph” says the immediate
disease from which France suf-
fers is basically the irresponsi-
bility of the country’s Parlia-
mentary representatives:
“Multiplicity of parties, and
the log-rolling which goes on
among them, might be thought a
sufficient evil, but what is ob-
servable today is a breakdown
of party discipline among all
groups except the Socialists and
Communists. It is impossible
even to strike a bargain on a
programme, good or bad, so long
as pique and sheer destructive-
ness will range many of the
nominal followers of a party
against the creation of a Gov-
ernment in which its own leaders
are ready, on terms, to take
part.”
France’s allies, it comments,
“may legitimately feel impatient
at the neglect of major causes
in which they share while
French politicians bicker about
minor domestic disputes.”
Under the French Constitu-
tion (explains London “Daily
Mail”), when a French Govern-
ment is defeated it resigns—but
the Assembly which defeats it
carries on. This means that
power does not reside in the
Administration but in the
Assembly ; and it is power with-
out responsibility.
Reynaud, in his Premiership
stipulations, wished to change
this. He said he would take the
job only if the Constitution were
amended to provide for the auto-
matic dissolution of the
Assembly if a Government were
overthrown after less than 18
months of office. He and his
proposal were rejected.
“It would,” in the “Daily
Mail’s” view, “have been a salu-
tary check upon capricious
Assemblies. Because such a
check is lacking in France, that
unhappy country has had no
fewer than 18 Governments since
the end of the last war.” [lt now
has its 19th.]
Further explaining, the Paris
correspondent of “New York
Times” points out that, though
the Assembly can overthrow
only two Governments within
18 months without risking its
own dissolution, it can ham-
string Governments without
limit, thus condemning them to
London "Daily Express"
THE LAST TIME THEY BORED PARIS
futility or resignation without
risk to itself.
This power, he adds, “is the
constitutional source of the
chronic political paralysis in
France that cuts the life of Gov-
ernments to an average of about
six months and has long ensured
inflationary policies.
“It ensures that the basic eco-
nomic strength of France
is never translated into financial,
political or diplomatic strength.
It ensures that the exceptional
intelligence and culture of
Frenchmen are reflected only
dimly and intermittently, if at
all, in French politics,
“It ensures that France’s over-
seas territories are often badly
administered, at the cost of
France’s prestige. It ensures
that the frequently brilliant
French thinking on international
questions rarely solidifies in the
form of 'policies backed up by
firm Governments and by Patr
liament.
“It ensures that France, which
has put forth the claim to be
accepted as a Great Power, can
hardly ever speak or act with
the authority and consistency of
a Great Power. Debates on
foreign policy in the Assembly
are rare and usually inconclu-
sive or negative. Consequently
foreign policy, such as it is,
tends to be the private province
of the Foreign Minister as in the
days of monarchy, and as it was
notably under Robert Schurnan
when he [previously] headed the
Foreign Ministry. [Schumann
and Bidault have, in fact,
save for one very brief interval
of 29 days, been France’s only
Foreign Ministers since the
war. This, with the fact that
both are members of the same
party, accounts for such con-
tinuity as there is in French
foreign policy.]
“The almost anarchistic aver-
sion to strong government —the
belief that that Government is
best that governs least—has
been carried so far in France as
to make financial stability almost
impossible and to make it diffi-
cult for other nations to take
seriously the pronouncements or
policies of the ephemeral French
Governments at a time when
France should be playing a
major role in the diplomatic and
defensive alliance of the Western
world.”
A London “Time and Tide”
writer also explains the scarcely
perfect French political system:
“In Britain, members of Par-
liament are not elected for a
fixed period. When a British
Government is defeated it has
the right to ask the Sovereign
for a dissolution, which puts
the seat of every member at
hazard, and this request is nor-
mally conceded. This imposes
upon members of Parliament a
sense of responsibility, for they
know that if they behave
stupidly and irresponsibly they
may be signing their own politi-
cal death-warrants.
“But in France the deputies
are elected for a fixed period.
Within that period the Govern-
ment can dissolve the Assembly
only if, on two occasions within
18 months, a clear majority of
the whole House votes against
the Government on a plain
motion of ‘No Confidence.’ It
does not need a clear majority of
the whole House, however, to
bring a Government down ; that
can be done by a simple majority
of those voting. So the deputies,
by arranging for a sufficient
number of abstentions, can
avoid giving the Government the
power to dissolve, while preserv-
ing their power to vote Govern-
ment after Government out of
office. The deputies, in effect,
can see to it that their own
seats are preserved in safety for
the full five years for which they
are elected, and meantime can
behave with complete irresponsi-
bility.”
Added to all that are the fail-
ings on the personal side. “In-
stead of trying to face these
immense problems [the Big-
Three meeting; Indo-China ;
North Africa; the European
Defence Community treaty], and
presenting them clearly to the
nation, the Assembly has
brought down successive French
Governments over the question
of taxes on home-distilled
alcohol or fractional cuts in an
ever-mounting Budget deficit.
Rarely has a great, if somewhat
anarchic, people been so badly
served by its representatives.”
“It is,” London “Economist”
comments, “increasingly clear
that France is ungovernable in
the normal sense of the word.”
“Fortunately,” comments
“New York Times,” “France
and the French are better than
most of their politicians. The
nation goes fairly steadily on its
way—brave, hard-working, sober
and wonderfully civilised, while
the politicians gyrate and flit
around in their graceful and now
almost meaningless dance.”
That view of the French
people, however, doesn’t alter
the hard facts of the state of
France itself, some of which the
Paris correspondent of London
“Daily Telegraph” lists:
1. —The Budget deficit is
£750 million, and without
countermeasures will attain
£lOOO million next year. France’s
deficit in the European Pay-
ments Union has reached £267
million.
2. —Free competition has
given way to private cartels and
price-rigging. Compared with
the pre-war peak. United States
production has doubled, that of
Britain has increased by 53 per
cent, and that of France by only
8 per cent.
3. —France has failed to
modernise her equipment. Agri-
cultural exports last year covered
only 53 per cent, of agricultural
imports. Production could be
increased by 30 per cent.
4. —Two-thirds of the French
forces’ equipment comes from
foreign aid, and half the cost of
the war in Indo-China is being
borne by the United States.
Old Gold, Very. —Pleasant
oddity of East-West dealings
noted by “U.S. News and World
Report”: After World War 11,
in settling for lend-lease goods
in the pipeline after war
stopped, the Russians paid in
gold. The payment was the gold
that the United States had paid
to Russia in 1867 for the pur-
chase of Alaska, and was still
in its original containers.
Kenyatta. London “Daily
Herald” correspondent’s report
on jailed Jomo; “Although he is
vain, ambitious and, some say,
unscrupulous, the plain fact is
that no other East African even
remotely approaches him either
in ability or personality.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Mining the Antarctic c
Australia will this year send an expedi-
tion to the Antarctic continent, and the v
fanfare of publicity that has so far f
accompanied the proposed venture has
contained an extraordinary amount of v
nonsense aimed at justifying the expense
to the public.
The search for uranium is being
advanced as a sound reason for dispatch-
ing an expedition to Antarctica. That
is palpable nonsense, along with the
theory that coal may be found at Mac-
Robertson Land. Coal deposits are
known to exist on the continent —
Captain Scott and Sir Douglas Mawson
both reported big coal-seams at two
different places within a few years of
each other —and possibly uranium and
other metals do exist; but how are they
to be mined and, if mined, how are they
to be brought back?
The difficulties to be overcome are
enormous. First, there is the problem
of transporting thousands of tons of
equipment and supplies to maintain the
mining establishment. You have the
world’s worst weather conditions for the
voyage down, then the job of getting
through the pack-ice with large ships
and landing on icebound beaches with
the constant threat of winds which led
Mawson to call the place “The Home of
the Blizzard.” Suppose those difficulties
are surmounted, what then?
The overall ice-coverage on the
Antarctic Continent is more than
2000ft.; at the sea it is more than 150ft.
The coal- or uranium-seam having been
discovered, how is it to be economically
mined? Is the ice to be melted away
(by some device or another) when it is
reasonably certain that it will be back
again in the winter? If a tunnel is
mined through the ice, what gigantic
problems of drainage and “de-icing” will
arise? Heating a subterranean estab-
lishment in that climate would be almost
impossible unless every inch of it were
sheathed and insulated to enable men
to work throughout the year.
And here is the greatest stumbling-
block of all; where is the enormous labor-
force necessary for such an undertaking
to be recruited? Certainly not in Aus-
tralia. We have enough difficulty getting
coal under ideal conditions.
Finally, there is the cost of transport.
To bring the minerals back in quantity
would require a fleet of large, well-found
vessels capable of withstanding the
violent hurricanes experienced on every
Antarctic voyage, and manned by sea-
men who would not down tools at the
slightest provocation. Their wages, and
those of the miners, plus the cost of
equipment, voyages and storm damage,
plus the cost of food for a self-contained
community isolated by weather for at
least half the year, plus the cost of re-
cruiting new staff every year—the list
could go on for ever and the balance-
sheet would make public-transport opera-
tions look like an icecream-barrow in
winter.
As a weather-station with the main
purpose of undertaking research into
Antarctic weather conditions, in con-
junction with Heard and Macquarie
Islands and the French bases at Ker-
guelen and Amsterdam, the expedition
is reasonable and a justified expenditure
in view of the long-range weather fore-
casting possibilities entailed. But let us
have no nonsense about mining coal and
uranium—V. J. H. (W.A.).
Decentralise
For the city of Sydney it is probably
a fair estimate that the average worker
spends two uncomfortable, unproductive
and unprofitable hours travelling to and
from his daily work. These two hours
of jostling and straphanging on Govern-
ment transport are often more exhaust-
ing than a similar time on the job.
Ten hours per week of a worker’s
time, plus fares, and one taxpayer’s share
of the annual transport deficit, is part
of the penalty each city worker pays for
supporting the policy of centralisation.
He would be just as well off as a
worker if he spent one hour more on his
job and one hour less on his daily journey,
and the extra production would benefit
him immensely as a consumer and tax-
payer.
Unless Sydney’s expansion is checked
by allowing other cities to develop in
the near future, the congestion and the
effect on our living standards will be
appalling. If the manufacturing indus-
tries of Australia, and particularly of
N. S. Wales, were distributed among
several cities, half the time and money
wasted on getting to and from the job
could be saved.
The defence value of decentralisation
would justify a change of policy, apart
from all other considerations.
It is in the best interests of the city
worker to use his voting-power to end
“Now let's climb that one so we can take a photo of this.”
this “one big city” policy and enable his
fellow-workers to live nearer to their
jobs and to the sources of their food-
supplies.
Decentralisation of industry and popu-
lation would provide a more even flow of
traffic on our State-owned railways and
reduce the annual deficits.
The farming community has long
realised what a curse to Australia the
centralisation policy has been, but farmers
are outvoted by the city workers and
the demagogues who control them, —
Delta (N.S.W.).
A Lake and a Mill
I would question the wisdom of estab-
lishing the Tasman Pulp and Paper Com-
pany’s mill at Onepu, in the Bay of
Plenty district. New Zealand,
Two happenings have occurred there,
either of which could have spelt ruin for
a mill. The first was the Tarawera
eruption of June 10, 1886, when Tarawera
mountain, a few miles to the south of
the site of the proposed mill, erupted
and covered the area with vast quantities
of ejecta and, in so doing, created a
potential for the second occurrence by
blocking the natural outlet from Lake
Tarawera so effectively that the level of
the lake rose some 42ft. in the years that
followed.
On November 1, 1904, the waters over-
topped the barrier and, on November 3,
lift, depth of it carried away, precipitat-
ing some square miles of water down
over the site of the proposed mill.
I was in the area when the lake burst
its banks and know of the magnitude of
the flood that followed. Since the land
was not developed no great damage was
done .at the time, though in subsequent
years the river brought down vast quan-
tities of sand and pumice which created
serious problems in the drainage of the
Rangitaiki swamp.
As the ejecta from the Tarawera erup-
tion caused the lake to rise 42ft. and the
flood only reduced this level by lift.,
there is still 31ft. t)f water im-
pounded there above the original level.
Any disturbance in such a highly volcanic
area may release it at any time, and the
only way for it to go is down oyer the
site where it is proposed to build the
mill.
I don’t know anything about manu-
facturing paper, but in case there are
any chemicals or other deleterious sub-
stance used that may damage plant-life,
here’s another warning: The water-cress
along the sides of the Tarawera River
is all that prevents the river from
scouring away its banks ; if this, water-
cress is killed there will probably be
endless trouble in controlling the river to
prevent it from doing untold damage to
farm properties along its banks.
I also doubt the solidity of the country
hereabouts to carry heavy and vibrating
machinery, though no doubt it has been
bored to prove suitable foundations for
the mill. When boring for artesian water
a few miles to the north I struck timber
at a depth of over 300 ft. —T. Thorne-
Seccombe (N.Z.).
Queensland Taxation
The assertion that before the war
Queensland had higher taxing rates than
those now imposed by the Common-
wealth does not fairly set out the posi-
tion.
Criticism of the rates fails to consider
the fact that Queensland taxed small
incomes at a low rate and larger inpomes
at a higher rate.
In 1939-40, in every State except
Queensland and N. S. Wales, taxes had
to be paid by anyone who earned £l5O
a year or more. In fact, four States
insisted on tax being paid if the earner
made as little as £lO5.
Queensland did not tax anyone until
he received £2OO a year. Then it taxed
a single man only £1 6s. 3d. But
S.A. taxed the same man £ll 13s. 3d,,
Western Australia £6 11s., Tasmania £6
7s. 3d., N.S.W. £5 16s. Bd. and Victoria
£2 2s. Bd.
Queensland did not tax a man with
one dependant until he earned £250 a
year. Again, all other States except
N. S. Wales and S.A. taxed the same
man if he earned £lO5 a year.— Clem
Lack (Q.).
“High Farming”
“Delta” could have given many more
examples of the influence of individuals
on farming in general (B. 3 /6/’53). British
“high farming,” for instance, was wholly
the work of individual landowners and
farmers —-men such as Coke of Holkham,
“Turnip” Townshend ? Bakewell, Knight
and Lord Meadowbank.
Based on the four-course (Norfolk)
rotation of crops, of which root-crops
were a basic feature, this type of farm-
ing began in the mid-18th-century, and
reached its peak about a century later.
It greatly increased British agricultural
production and, combined with a remark-
able advance in stock-breeding, won
. British farmers the reputation of being
world-leaders in scientific agriculture.
The Government played no part what-
ever. Even agricultural colleges were not
established in the British Isles before the
“And you absolutely GUARANTEE this liqueur-strength,
pot-still, aged Scotch whisky to be non-habit-forming?"
late 19th century. Britons who wanted
training in farming had to go as pupils
on farms. Afforestation and the draining
of swampy areas, like the reclamation of
the Bedford level, were also privately
organised. Indeed, the main influence of
Governmental action on agricultural
enterprise in the 19th century was to deal
it a heavy blow by the institution of
Free Trade.
As late as the 1870’s, in the last days
of “high farming” before the flood of
cheap American wheat dealt the system
its deathblow, people went to British
farms from all over the world to learn
from men who were regarded as the
supreme masters of agriculture and stock-
breeding.
Historian A. G. Bradley was a pupil
about that time on Fentonbars, head-
quarters of a famous Lothian farming
family, the Hopes, before trying his hand
at farming in Virginia. He described
his experiences in a book. When Squires
and Farmers Thrived. On this and other
Scots farms he encountered as pupils
Swedish and German nobles and farmers
or farmers’ sons from America and
from British colonies. Some years earlier,
the father of South African statesman-
soldier Deneys Reitz .went all the way
from the Orange Free State to spend a
term for training on a similar Scots farm.
—Kanimbla (N.S.W.).
Road Deaths
Victorian authorities are bothered
because their State ranks sixth in the
world’s list for numbers of fatalities per
motor-vehicle, while New Zealand tops it,
having fewer deaths per car than any
other country, and they are trying to
compare conditions in the two countries
in order to discover causes. There’s one
simple measure they could apply;
Detroit (U.S.A.) tried it and it worked
like a charm. In that city drunken
drivers were responsible for 47 deaths
and 1774 casualties in one year. A new
law was enacted to jail all drunken
drivers, and the figures dropped to two
and 115.—Chevroford (Vic.).
Canvas Town
The migrant-accommodation problem
has been accentuated by upheavals and
demonstrations, and an unhappy situa-
tion has been disclosed. Hostels cannot
provide on a less-than-cost basis, yet
migrants can hardly b© expected to be
happy paying 80 per cent, of income on
board and lodging.
Hostels are meant for a short transi-
tion period only, but with the housing
shortage only a few can transfer to more
permanent homes.
In the pioneering days migrants made
their way to where their services were
required and accommodated themselves
in crude huts or tents until they could
acquire or build better houses. Today,
such opportunities are limited.
Yet there is ail intermediate method
that might well be revived. When the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Scheme began
to take shape at Yanco, Leeton and
Griffith no adequate housing could be
provided and, for a number of years,
almost the whole community was housed
in villages of well-pitched tents. These
canvas homes were fitted with as much
modern comfort as possible—timber
flooring, electricity and water. The tents
were reasonably large and provided space
for bath and shower. Some boasted fuel-
stoves enclosed in small fibro structures
for kitchens.
In these canvas towns, irrigation
officials and engineers, construction
workers and administration staff made
their hpmes, in some cases for years.
Many and varied were the improvisa-
tions and quite a few of the tent-dwellers
surrounded their improvised homes with
attractive gardens and ornamental shrubs.
Moreover, the canvas town is too
temporary to degenerate into a slum
quarter.
There seems no reason why such
canvas communities should not be
organised on suitable sites in the metro-
politan area, providing the homeless with
adequate shelter and the freedom ot
action they desire until they can arrange
more substantial habitation. —G. A. B
(N.S.W.).


The “Barracks” Problem
Two articles of mine on the early his-
tory of the lyrebird (B. 29/4/’53 and
6/5/’53), having been followed by two
more period pieces by M. H. Ellis (B.
27/5/’53 and 8/7/’53), it seems desirable
to make certain comments and correct
sundry misconceptions.
Although historians have given
“Barracks” as the name of the youth
who, on Governor Hunter’s instructions,
kept a diary relating to exploration on the
Southern Highlands of N. S. Wales in
1798, it is now clear that the name was
confused with that of Barrallier, who
traversed portion of the same region a
few years later. Personally, I accepted
“Barracks” on “official” printed authority,
and did not examine the original manu-
script reference to the name until after
my articles were published. Then I
marvelled at two things: (a) the occur-
rence of the error and ( b ) the fact that
it has been so long overlooked by writers
on the period.
The most useful item in Mr. Ellis’s
first article is a quotation which he in-
cludes without comment. A brief foot-
note to a letter written by Hunter (to Sir
Joseph Banks?) in August of 1798, it
advises the sending of an egg of “the
bird of paradise,” otherwise the lyrebird.
Had that action by Hunter been revealed
in the first half of last century, or, rather,
had Banks not unaccountably failed to
make the egg known, considerable quan-
tities of argument and perspiration would
have been checked at their source-
argument among scientists who differed
regarding the systematic position of the
lyrebird, and perspiration on the part of
field-workers, both English and French,
who during many years sought through-
out N. S. Wales for the bird’s nest and
egg. Actually it was not until 1867 that
an egg of Menura superba was made
known from its “home” area. The ques-
tion now is, what became of the example
which Hunter obtained (presumably
through his wild white man, John Wil-
son) and sent to England almost 70 years
before that?
It is not precisely “unbelievable” (as
Mr. Ellis assumes) that certain creatures
avoided discovery until about 10 years
after the foundation of settlement. You
have to know some of these birds and
beasts to realise how elusive they can
be. Lyrebirds, for example, still frequent
many rugged gullies near Sydney, yet not
more than a fraction of the city’s people
of today have ever seen one, and fewer
still have seen a nest. That aside, quite
a large number of species were described
and figured (some by convict artists)
during the first decade.
No one has ever suggested that the
description of the lyrebird appearing in
Collins’s English Colony in New South
Wales was written by Hunter. Nor was
it, as Mr. Ellis implies, written by Sir
Everard Home, \yho was an anatomist,
not an ornithologist. It was simply
taken by Collins from the scientific
account which Major-General Davies,
the man who named the bird Menura
superba , gave to the Linnean Society of
London in 1800.
As to the suggestion that George Bass
may have been the discoverer of the lyre-
bird, Bass was too • sound a naturalist
to have hidden such a prize away for a
lengthy period. Anyway, Major-General
Davies had the bird painted months be-
fore Bass’s specimen reached England.
The greatest of the early naturalists in
Australia was not any of the men men-
tioned, but Robert Brown, first-class
botanist and competent all-rounder.
George Caley (not “Cayley”) was also a
botanist who did good service to orni-
thology. But, in the view of present-day
naturalists, most applause for work
accomplished at the time, in face of diffi-
culties, should go to John Hunter.
Although it is true that the \yombat was
first discovered on an island of Bass
Strait (in 1797), the name did' not
originate there. The first written refer-
ence to the animal, as “whom-batt,” was
that made by Hunter’s youthful servant
on the Southern Highlands of N. S. Wales
on January 26, 1798. Hunter, it may be
noted, made some excellent observations
on a living example of the Bass Strait
animal (a smaller species than the com-
mon one of the mainland) which he had
in captivity, and whose body he after-
wards sent to England.
Mr. Ellis says “it seems to be true”
that the existence of the koala was not
recorded until 1804. Zoologists have
long since accepted as the first reference
to the species a note in the “Barracks”
journal, dated January 26, 1798, regard-
ing the presence on the Southern High-
lands of an animal “which the natives call
a cullawine, and which much resembles
the sloths in America.” It is also on
record that Francis Barrallier wrote about
the animal, under the name of colo, in
1802, and that the “Sydney Gazette”
mentioned it as the koolah in 1803. The
name koala, by the way, appears to
have been first used in 1808, after which
came, inevitably, “native bear” and
“teddy bear” —also “Billy Bluegum.”
On the whole, the most striking cir-
cumstance associated with the discovery
of three of Australia’s most distinguished
products—the lyrebird, koala and wom-
bat—is the fact that all three were first
recorded by a mere youth, and that the
references to both the bird and the
mammals —as “pheasant,” “cullawine”
and “whom-batt” —all appear on the one
page of the lad’s journal. It is, more-
over, a happy side-issue that the date of
the entry is January 26 (1798), the date
that is now recognised as Australia Day.
On the purely personal side, the
remarkable thing is, first, that the name
of the youthful adventurer has remained
so long in obscurity, and, second, that
he was wrongly identified by historians
of the present century and even given a
place on the map under what appears to
be an “imaginary” name. It is now to
be hoped that, in atonement for this
quaint error, some historical student will
ascertain the lad’s correct name and
state what became of him after he
returned to England with Governor
Hunter in 1801. For, certainly, the
youngster possessed uncommon spirit and
intelligence, and on that score, plus his
status as a pioneer in exploration and
natural history, he merits cordial recog-
nition in Australia’s records. —A. H.
Chisholm (N.S.W.).
Pay for Politicians
Queensland Labor caucus has voted to
increase Parliamentary salaries and allow-
ances, each by £2OO a year. The State
Cabinet has been directed to prepare
legislation to give effect to caucus’s de-
cision early in the new session. The
increases will mean a basic salary-rate
of £1575 for all State members, with
allowances varying from £3lO for metro-
politan members to £495 for some country
members.
No mention of any move for
increased salaries and allowances was
made by Premier Gair in his policy-
speech for the State elections held just
over four months ago. No Labor candi-
date hinted at the matter during the
campaign.
The move for an increase in allowances
was initiated by a number of Labor
members who claimed that they were
financially embarrassed because of their
Parliamentary service. But if Labor
members are up against it now, they must
have been that way four months ago,
and Premier Gair must have had some
knowledge of their plight before he de-
livered his policy-speech. Why then did
Labor fail to broach the subject of Parlia-
mentary salaries and allowances during
the State election campaign?
Liberal speakers warned Queensland
electors that Labor, if returned, would
increase Parliamentary emoluments, but
Labor, save for an isolated reply that this
charge was “Tory hysteria,” was silent.
Suggestions that an independent
tribunal should be set up to determine
Parliamentary salaries and allowances
have brought sneering replies from Labor
supporters. “Coward’s castle” and “Don’t
place the odium of deciding what Parlia-
mentarians shall get on outsiders” are
typical examples. Labor’s hostility to the
proposal of a tribunal to fix pay and
perks for Parliamentarians is, of course,
“I'd say anti-social behavior due to unhappy home-life."
in perfect harmony with its views on
arbitration.
One further fact may explain Labor’s
reluctance to submit to the decision of a
tribunal —such a tribunal might remind
voters that Parliament sits for only three
months a year. —D. J. K. (Q.).
Elizabethan England
I have my doubts about “D.J.K.’s”
picture of England under the first Eliza-
beth (B. 1/7/’53) as a freedom-loving
anti-Socialist country. Elizabethan Eng-
land was really a Socialistic economy
based on an elaborate system of controls.
In the words of R. H. Tawney, the ideal
of the Tudor Privy Councils was not pro-
gress but stability—“ Distrusting economic
individualism.... their aim was to crystal-
lise existing class relationships by sub-
mitting them to the pressure, at once
restrictive and protective, of a paternal
government, vigilant to detect all move-
ments which menaced the established
order and alert to suppress them.”
England was ruled by a plutocracy of
newly rich, who had obtained their
wealth by robbery and confiscation, with-
out compensation, of private property.
Elizabeth’s reign was based on tyranny,
on torture and on the persecution of
dissenters and Catholics. One of the
worst bloodbaths in history occured in
Ireland. The Dictionary of National
Biography states “the administration of
Ireland during the reign of the Queen is
not a pleasant subject to write upon.”
To quote Tawney again, “nothing was
too great or too small to escape the eyes
of an omniscient State.”
“D.J.K.” may despise the South
American countries he mentions, but no
doubt there are many things we can learn
from them. It was these countries that
fought with Dr. Evatt against the veto in
the United Nations, and defended the
rights of small nations against Russia,
Britain and U.S.A.
Dr. Evatt is not the only one who
voted against Great Britain. The present
Australian Government,has quite rightly
opposed Britain’s recognition of Com-
munist China, and has opposed the ad-
mission of Britain to the Anzus Pact.
There is no doubt that Mr. Casey’s
foreign policy is tied to that of the
U.S.A. rather than to Great Britain.
The British Commonwealth of Nations
has a great future, but the days of em-
pires are over. No nation has a right to
govern the peoples of another country
against their will, and it is to the credit of
both Socialist and non-Socialist Govern-
ments that they recognise this fact. —
A. B. C- (Tas.).
Third-party Insurance
Third-party cases are heard before a
judge without jury in all Australian States
except N. S. Wales and Victoria. The
direct result is that compulsory third-
party premiums in those two States are
reaching fantastic proportions.
The highest award in N. S. Wales, so
far, is £40,000; in Victoria, £20,000.
Highest award to date in any other State
is reported to be under £6OOO,
When the president of the Victorian
Insurance Institute, K. A. Taylor, lately
advocated abolition of the jury system
in third-party cases, he was taken to task
by the legal profession (understandably),
the Press and the Deputy Premier.
“It is a man’s traditional right to be
tried by his peers,” was their cry.
“How can justice be preserved,” said
Taylor, “when juries know that an in-
surance company must be involved? In-
stinctively their sympathies lean towards
the maimed individual rather than the
‘wealthy’ insurance company.”
Taylor pointed out that, before the in-
ception of compulsory third-party, it
was the usual practice to discharge the
jury if insurance was dven mentioned
during the hearing. “If this action was
necessary to preserve justice for all
parties then, surely it is just as necessary
now,” he maintained.
Most motorists, looking for a little
relief from some direction, will agree.—
G.W.W. (Vic.).
Dogs or Men?
An extremely savage and dangerous
dog lately escaped from an R.A.A.F.
establishment where the animal had been
used as a guard. Apart from the serious
danger that these dogs are to people
living in the vicinity of establishments
where they are used, isn’t it just a spec-
tacular bit of nonsense, very expensive
to the country?
In war-time, when every fit man was
needed for more active duty, there might
have been some excuse for using dogs to
guard property, but in times of peace it
seems a bit ridiculous. These dogs are
expensive to train, expensive to feed and
house, and they must have trained men
to look after them. An armed, sentry
would certainly be much more effective
in guarding property than the most
savage and highly-trained dog.
The N. S. Wales police found their
police-dogs an expensive and ineffective
novelty.—W. P.T. (N.S.W.).


FAST-EFFICIENT-THRIFTY
WOOLCLASSING
C TUBUIAR STEEL Q
WOOL
TABLE
r i
Kps
Pi
CAN BE A FEATURE
OF YOUR WOOLSHED
Featuring roller top with non-rust,
self - lubricating, machine - tested
bearings, the Renlita wool table
will pay for itself in time saved by
quick handling. Only 1401 b. weight,
but very rigid, Renlita can be
quickly assembled and adjusted for
height by one man.
ALL PARTS
REPLACEABLE
Obtainable from your
Woolbroker, or
LENGTH 9'3"
WIDTH s'o"
ADJUSTABLE
HEIGHT
2'Bi" to 3'l"
V/fcV*7
rtO^
C.M-''
OR
K e A lAIRD
313 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. C 3541
256 FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE. W 2326
1 BOND STREET, SYDNEY. 8U2614
Best
Mineral
Supplement
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
•uv-fc* 1 ' 08
*o** 6 . *-*•»*
65% trl-**** 16
4
*Du€a£ol
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRICALCIC PHOSPHATE.
Any particular! gladly soppllad—
Write to QAVIS GELATINE: G.PO Bo> ISBJ.
SYDNEY • S.P.O. Bo> 4056. MELBOURNE • ft.P.O.
Be, 712 F, ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Bo> 75SK. BRISBANE
• G.P.O Box BBS. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
N.Z. Vet. Clubs
“Archaps”: The veterinary
clubs of New Zealand started in
the dairying district of Taranaki,
where farmers paid into a fund
to subsidise a vet. and get his
services at reduced fees individu-
ally. Today nearly every part of
the Dominion is served by a
club, the sheepfarmers having
emulated the dairymen.
The Gisborne Club, in the
centre of a sheepbreeding area,
employs four full-time vets. The
amount subscribed by each
farmer depends upon the
quantity of milk or cream he
sends to a factory, or the
number of stock he runs.
Members pay Bd. per mile for
travelling expenses as against a
normal charge of Is. 4d. per
mile. In the sheep areas clubs
increase their income by selling
drenches.
A committee of farmers runs
the club, and although there is
at times a little friction between
clubs and vets, a mutual under-
standing has developed which
benefits both parties.
Club - members have been
taught the value of research, and
last year Gisborne farmers sent
in 800 dead lambs to facilitate
research into the high iamb
mortality in N.Z. In the dairy-
ing districts the work of the vets
is mainly answering urgent calls
to milk-fever cases, attending
calving cows, inoculating against
contagious abortion, testing for
t.b. (though often this is done by
Government vets), examining
cows and bulls for infertility and
generally treating cattle.
With beef - cattle, a vet.
frequently does the speying, also
c.a. inoculation and removing
cancerous eyes. In the sheep
areas, most rams are examined
for epididymitus before being put
out with the ewes, and useless
rams discarded. Problems of
fertility and lambing are a
major part of a vet.’s work.
Private vets are becoming rather
rare in N.Z. Non-club-members
can have the services of a club
vet., but they pay full rates and
priority of a vet.’s services is
given to members.
Potato Varieties
“S.M.”: Release of two new
potato varieties by N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture marks
the success of a carefully-
planned breeding project, under-
taken by J. G. Carroll, at New
England Experiment Farm.
The varieties are Crana and
Awaba, and are the f result of a
cross between Pontiac and
Katahdin. They are sister-
selections to Monak and Adina,
which were also bred at Glen
Innes and are now being grown
commercially.
Crana is of similar maturity
to Katahdin. The tubers are an
attractive reddish-pink, some-
what resembling Pontiac, almost
round in shape, and the eyes are
shallow to moderately deep. The
tubers are of uniform size with
a high proportion of No. 1
grade. They are particularly
free from such defects as hollow-
heart, second - growth and
growth-cracks. The variety has
good resistance to brown-fleck
and latent-mosaic. Both cook-
ing and keeping qualities are
satisfactory for an early potato.
Awaba is a late-maturing
potato, being about 14 days
later than Sebago. The tubers
are white, almost spherical, and
make a very attractive com-
mercial sample. They are set
rather deeply and compactly
around the stem, thus minimis-
ing potato-moth damage. The
size is fairly uniform, with only
a small number of overlarge
potatoes, but a high proportion
of seed-size may be produced
under unfavorable conditions.
The potatoes are very free of
second-growth, growth-cracks
and hollow-heart. Little seed
of these varieties is available as
yet.
Goslings
“Mr.”: Goslings aren’t hard
to rear if allowed a run on fresh
grass and if given dry camping-
quarters. They won’t stand up
to continued damp, cold condi-
tions, and for that reason are
best kept off water until they’re
at least a month old.
Grass-feeding reduces rearing
costs, but don’t limit the diet to
that. The following mash will
provide goslings from a few
days old to three months old with
all they need: bran 41b., pollard
71b., wheat- or maize-meal 61b.,
liver-meal lib., meat-meal 21b.,
salt 2oz. If the mash is mixed
with skim-milk, the liver-meal
can be dropped. Mix to a fairly
wet consistency and feed twice
daily, morning and afternoon,
just enough to satisfy them.
Poultry Manure
“Wattle”: One hundred lay-
ing fowls produce about two
tons of dry manure in a year,
estimated to contain nitrogen
equivalent to about 6cwt. of
sulphate-of-ammonia.
The quantity is sufficient to
manure 75,000 acres for inten-
sively produced crops of vege-
tables and fruit.
However, says V. H. Brann, of
N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture, bad handling methods fail
to exploit the commercial possi-
bilities. Economic waste occurs
“How do I know you're not a secret agent for a
foreign Power ?”
through regarding poultry-
manure as farmyard manure,
whereas it is comparable, if
properly harvested, with highly-
priced artificial fertilisers.
Although poultry-manure can-
not be improved by processing,
its original value as a fertiliser
can be preserved by quick dry-
ing and by keeping it dry until
it is applied to the soil.
If merely gathered and left in
heaps in a wet condition the
manure becomes heated. This
liberates the nitrogen content,
leaving the manure of less value
than other manures from a farm.
Brann said that where flocks
were confined to dry, weather-
proof houses on built-up litter,
conditions were provided which
would produce manure virtually
dehydrated by absorption and
aeration in the normal processes
of poultry-production.
This product would retain its
high chemical value, and once
the litter was started very little
foreign material like shavings
needed to be added. Bagged,
stored and kept in a dry place,
it should remain of high quality
and should be marketable as a
fertiliser, not as a farmyard
manure.
Keep Fuel Covered
“Ben Acre”: Keep all drums
containing fuel or oil under
cover, or, if this cannot be done,
tip the drums slightly so that
any rain that falls on them will
not lodge around the bung
Otherwise, unless the bung is
screwed down thoroughly, the
contraction of the gas in the
drum at night will draw the
water into the drum.
Oil and water, if left stand-
ing, will emulsify, the resulting
mixture being unfit for lubrica-
tion and hard to separate.
Water can be strained from
fuel, especially light fuels, such
as kerosene and petrol. Run the
fuel off the top until water
appears. Any small quantity of
water can be strained out with
a heavy cloth dipped in fuel.
Fuel and water pumped from a
drum will emulsify, but can be
separated by settling and strain-
ing. The settling might take a
day or so. The emulsion has
an aerated appearance brought
about by fine globules of water
suspended in the fuel.
Hard-facing
“Humus”: Other uses for the
hard-facing technique (B.
8/7/’53) are obvious from the
fact that picks, rock-drills,
plough-shares and -disks, bull-
dozer blades and scoops—prac-
tically every implement that has
to stand abrasive action —have a
better fife with hard-facing.
Further, mild steel, hard-faced
on the cutting-edge, may often
replace more costly hard steel.
A special abrasive stone is neces-
sary for grinding hard-faced
tools.
New Wheat#
“Ben C”: Brolga, a wheat
developed by N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture at Temora
experiment farm, outyielded the
State’s leading variety, Bencub-
bin, in trials in the N.S.W.


>1 SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION. ETC.
THE...
mMmm
i
m
mm
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved by N.B.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed,
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
of sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS.. NO EMPTYING. . .NO ODOURS
NO FLIES. . NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
g
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 20 years
DISTRIBUTORS: „ ,
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane. ~ ~
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle St., Adelaide.
R.‘ P. Mclnemey & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne,
or Wm. Crosby & 00., 119 Collins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DAB WIN: G. T. See Kee. Radiolectrix, Knuckey St.. Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Trading Co., Raffles Place.
N.Z.; Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome
Street, Auckland.
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND
VIC.:
S.A.:
W.A.:
TAS.:
BRAND OF PHENOTHIAZINE
THE MOST EFFICIENT
WORM DRENCH
COMPARE FOR YOURSELF THE FIGURES SHOWN IN THE FOLLOWING
TABLE INDICATING THE PERCENTAGE OF WORMS REMOVED FROM SHEEP
One of a series of advertisements designed to convey
as a simple story the results of many years of research.
Acknowledgement is made to many research workers
whose results have been published in the Australian
Veterinary Jpurnal and elsewhere.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRAUA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
ICi
PHE.I2X. 349-
central-west during the 1952-53
season.
Results show the following
yields of Brolga and Curlew,
compared with Bencubbin and
Kendee: 1952-53: Average
yield at nine centres: Brolga
34.4 bushels per acre, Bencub-
bin 31.2, Curlew 31.2, Kendee
29.3.
Brolga is an early- to mid-
season wheat which does well
under dry conditions. Its bak-
ing quality is good, but its
reliability is limited because of
its poor grain finish and high
susceptibility to stem-rust.
Since its release in 1949, Cur-
lew, also a Temora strain, has
shown a similarity to Brolga in
performance. Like Brolga, Cur-
lew appears to favor the dry
years. However, it is lacking
in any outstanding feature which
might enable it to replace Ben-
cubbin.
Honey Crops
“Breck”: When trees are
felled over wide areas or sea-
sonal conditions cause a lack of
nectar, bees turn to crops and
weeds for their supplies. Given
average rainfalls and weather,
honey-flows from these sources
are fairly abundant, and some
are of excellent quality.
Lucerne, one of the best
honey-producers, also stimulates
the bees in brood-rearing. When
lucerne is being grown for seed
the bees do a splendid job of
pollination. The resultant honey
is white and dense and the ideal
texture for marketing in paper
cartons.
From white-clover which has
benefited by early-spring rains
beekeepers have frequently
averaged 601 b. of honey per
colony. Blended with the iron-
bark product, this makes one of
the choicest coastal honeys.
The late W. A. Goodacre,
when N.S.W. honey expert, con-
tended that as maize was one of
the most prolific pollen-pro-
ducers, beekeepers should ex-
periment with it in warm dis-
tricts where good patches of
land were available. With early-
and late-sowings for summer-
and winter-crops, maize helps
the bees over a lengthy period.
Since maize and ironbark
flowerings coincide, the abund-
ant pollen supplies of maize
atone for the pollen deficiencies
of ironbark.
While thistles are a farmer’s
pest, they are one of the bees’
best friends, and are eagerly
worked for honey as well as
pollen. Foremost honey-yielder
of this tribe is St. Barnaby’s-
thistle. Common to many parts,
it springs up in fields after the
wheat crop has been harvested.
Honey garnered from this plant
is pale, condenses quickly and
is of fine flavor. It often brings
a high price.
, Capeweed, flowering about
September and October, sup-
plies the pollen needed for
early brood-rearing. The blue
flowers of Paterson’s-curse are
excellent for brood-rearing, but
the honey lacks density.
The habit of the common
briar of flowering throughout
dry seasons makes it useful to
the bees. When heavy spring
rainfalls help the blackberry to
secrete ample stores of nectar, a
good flow of honey follows.
Golden Rod, an American
perennial, now becoming known
along the coast, is always sought
by the bees. U.S.A. apiarists
regard it as a foremost honey-
plant.
Sick Horses
“H.C.”; Horses, when ill,
need isolation and quietness.
Open air and sunshine are better
than dark, badly-ventilated and
draughty stables. Shade is
needed in the hot and rugging in
the cold. Good bedding is an
asset.
As a cure-all drenching has
become a habit with many
owners, but it is an upsetting
business. The best and easiest
method is to mix the drug with
treacle, honey or jam to dis-
guise the taste and smear it on
the tongue.
Keep the horse clean. Firm
brushing stimulates the skin and
helps rid the body of poisons,
but where the condition is a
respiratory one the grooming-
dust is an irritant. Laxative
food or liquid paraffin will pre-
vent constipation.
Feeding by force rarely does
any good. Many animals when
sick cleanse the system by short-
term starvation. Unwanted food
acts as an irritant and is not
easily digested.
A sick horse is fussy, and may
have to be tempted with differ-
ent sorts of mash and drinks.
Though low in nutritive value,
bran-mash is tempting and is a
good laxative. Mix 31b. of bran
and loz. of salt with 2 % pints of
boiling water and cool it off be-
fore feeding. Addition of two
or three raw eggs and a little
treacle makes it more palatable.
Hay-tea, a hot favorite with
horses, stimulates appetite. Fill
a bucket with long-hay, pour
boiling water over it, cover with
a bag till cold and then strain.
Other useful foods are oatmeal-
porridge as gruel, linseed-and-
bran mash and carrots.
Plentiful cold water should be
handy for drinking.
Canned Milk
“Lacto”: The canning of fresh
milk was first tried in U.S.A.
about five years ago. Now it is
turned out in three different
States. Dairyfarmers supplying
the plants are paid “Grade A
fluid milk prices” throughout the
year, without any block days,
and no cooling is necessary on
the farm.
The milk is carried direct from
milking-machines to unrefriger-
ated 50-gallon steel vacuum
tanks, which are taken to the
canning-plant twice a day. The
canned-milk has a quick local
sale and any surplus goes to
overseas markets.
Boom Loader
“Oilcan”: A boom - loading
unit is used on a truck in this
Vic. district. It consists of a
swinging hydraulic boom fitted
behind the cabin on one
of the tray. The working is a
common hydraulic tipping-
hoist as fitted to most tip-
trucks, with the hydraulic
cylinder mounted vertically and
a boom fitted on top of the ram.
This unit handles large compres-
sor-tanks and small heavy cast-
ings with finger-tip ease, with
hook or sling pick-up.
For hives a built-in strap or
straps would be easy work.
Picking-up could be done with-
out the operator leaving the
tray of the truck except to pick
up the hive-stands, if the
stands are not already part of
the hive.
The cost is certainly less than
the £9OO for the U.S. type
(B. 1/7/’53). Tipper units can
be bought here for about £lBO
new, “fit them yourself.”
Second-hand ones are about
£5O-£6O. The boom can be
knocked-up to the honey-man’s
need, 6ft. to 20ft. long, by any
welder in half a day.
This unit could do much for
any person who has to pick up
something awkward, such as
hives, bags, bales, etc., spread
over an area.
Hints for the Farm
“Ben Acre”: The new vogue
of having a magnet on the wall
on which to hang tools can have
repercussions. Many tools that
will hang on a magnet will
develop magnetism, and it is very
annoying to have nails, metal
clippings or filings clinging to
your tools when you are work-
ing. Also, they are difficult to
demagnetise.
“My”: A four-weeks’ course
in dairying, pig-raising, crops
and pastures, animal production
and farm management will begin
at Dookie Agricultural College
(Vic.) on August 24. Cost is
£2 ss. per week. The Superin-
tendent of Agricultural Educa-
tion, Treasury Gardens, Mel-
bourne, will supply information,
“Billjim”: To prevent fires
started by farm engines don’t
allow accumulation of inflam-
mables around the engine,
especially near the exhaust.
Keep the engine clean of oil-
and grease-smears. Never re-
fuel with the engine running,
and it should be cool. Have a
chemical extinguisher and a
knapsack spray-pump handy all
the time.
“Deejay”: If you want a
clean, square cut on piping or
hose, fold a piece of straight-
edged paper round and mark
with a pencil.
“Springvale”: Deep cultiva-
tion gets good peas. The soil
mn<it hold moisture, but be well-
dr £ ncd through the sub-soil, so
that the roots can penetrate
deeply and be certain of a supply
of water even in the driest
seasons. It’s curious that many
enthusiastic amateurs will dig
deep in order to grow sweet-peas
for exhibition, yet never think
it necessary to go to the same
trouble when growing culinary
peas.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Sunspot movements and cyclical evidence are clearly
in favor of good rain early, in August, with good seasonal
conditions to follow.
In 1788 there were heavy rains in August, so some
intensity should appear next month. The length of the
Grand Cycle of Neptune, which governed the 1788 weather
and comes to force again, is 164® years and so far it has
run true to form.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
That was satisfying to the law
and sufficient for compensation,
Lewis was dead and God or
man could not bring him back,
In time even his memory would
be a thing of the past.
The line-gang went on with
their work as if nothing had
happened. No hints were
directed at Lou about Smitzer
carrying his spanner in his
pocket. It was a little point
overlooked by all except Lou.
But Lou began to feel that
Smitzer shouldn’t escape justice
altogether.
» was too much hke_ the child
y°n, have told not to touch the
apple and who has taken it at
last - . Y ?’l ft.
reasoned, let a thing like that
pass. Smitzer had to realise that
knew But it had
f° tactfully Lou
kept putting it off. Doing that
ma de him irritable.
But one morning, seeing
Smitzer reach unconsciously for
the spanner that wasn’t on the
wire, Lou called out sharply,
“Jack, come down here, will
you?”
Smitzer came down, looking
surprised; and Lou had a
moment of panic. Hed corn-
mitted himself and now was 10s
for a way of going on. Anger at
his own helplessness rose up
mside him: he spoke sharply
God damn it. Jack, g
ting fed-up with se JLJL
groping for that blasted spanner
You haven t hung it on the wire
since Lewis was remember
new hook on it and remember
m future not to hang a
man boring
PO H. W . l ) , m ?S d off anerilv down
He st P® oee tawayon
the road, wanting to get av ay ou
Imeono else his own for:a wMe Jto
on Smitors face had pro
Lou s theory.
He was sorry for
But he also felt relieved. Every*
thing was cleared up at last.
The Weeping Fig
by JUDITH WRIGHT
(... only condensed-milk, I’m
afraid, Mr. Condon. When
you live in k place like this
you have to expect that,” the
woman was saying. She held the
teapot stagily suspended, wait-
ing for his answer.
“Eh —no, no milk, thank
you.” Looking out into the hos-
tile heat of the paddock, he had
momentarily forgotten her. But
he drew up his chair now and
made an effort at conversation.
Though it was really too hot
to try to keep up this tea-party
foolishness. Good Lord, the
woman had actually changed her
frock; she had put on some
frilly affair —chintz, was it? The
word sounded right; brittle and
chattering.
“Have you lived here always,
Mrs. Hastings?”
“Oh, goodness, no. Harold
came here as manager three
years ago ; that was before we
married. I always tell him there
would have been no wedding-
bells if I had had any idea.,.!
But we hope for a city job, as
soon as we can find a house—
so difficult, you know. Of
course the pay here is quite
good ; I have to admit that. But
to be seventy miles from the
nearest town —and such a town!
“And frankly, Mr. Condon, I
don’t feel myself cut out for
country life. Now, my own old
home —well, it makes me miser-
able to think of it now. Down
on the river-bank, you know,
quite close to the city and the
shops—right in the swim, you
might say. But Ellen Downs is
really beyond words —now, isn’t
it? I have a phrase for this kind
of country—the abomination of
desolation. Don’t you think
that’s appropriate?”
He found the right formula in
answer, and went on, “Who
really owns this place, then?”
“Oh, it’s run by a company—
most of these places are, now,
you know. One doesn’t put up
with country like this unless one
has to, does one? I don’t know
how long they’ve owned it. We
get a director’s visit now and
then —big cars, you know, and
good clothes—they make some-
thing out of the place. But they
only come in the cool season.”
She laughed rather viciously,
“They don’t have to know what
the rest,of the year is like, now
do they?”
“You don’t know, then,
whether any of the original
buildings are still standing?”
She looked bored ; she pouted.
“Well, I don’t. I’ve never asked,
to tell you the truth. But Bertha
might. She’s the cook-house-
keeper here, you know. Her
father was a stockman on the
place all his life, she tells me;
and Bertha has never left the
place. She didn’t marry—you’ll
see why, if you’d like to ask her
yourself,”
“\yell, thank you, I should
like to know. I have a special
reason,” he began to explain.
“You see, this place”
But she was not interested in
his reasons. “Bertha,” she called
to the dim back regions beyond
the side-veranda. “Come here
a minute.”
There was a pause at this
summons ; then the door leading
off the veranda behind him was
opened. Bertha advanced, any
age over forty, deeply coffee-
colored, bare-footed and
hideously dressed ; she half-
fa o p p e d, half-limped on a
withered leg.
AND yet, looking up, Condon
felt himself in some dark
way put in the wrong by her
existence. It had come over him
again, for no reason —the feeling
of failure, of isolation, that this
landscape had given him. About
the serene ugliness of this half-
caste woman there was nothing,
surely; to rouse envy or admi-
ration, as there was nothing
desirable about the burning
rock, the dusty, scanty land in
whose uninhabited miles she had
lived her life.
Bertha and this country might
have stood for the same thing.
That was it, he realised suddenly.
A Condon had failed here, as
he himself had failed ; the land-
scape had rejected that forgotten
hope, here where this brown
root of a woman lived. And
that old failure of Stephen
Condon’s had somehow linked
itself in his mind with his own.
So this obstinately foolish expe-
dition of his led to no renewal
of pride in him. The landscape
defeated him, as it had defeated
old Stephen.
Bertha, too, ignored him.
“Yes, Missus?”
“Mrs. Hastings, Bertha,
please,” the woman corrected.
“This gentleman, Mr. Condon”
(Condon half-bowed as at an
introduction, but Bertha’s glance
did not waver) “would like to
ask you about the old buildings
here.” She took out a cigarette
and turned impatiently back to
the tea-table.
Bertha waited.
“I was just asking Mrs.
Hastings”—Condon could not
help a propitiating tone —
“whether any of the original
buildings—the first that were put
up on the place—are still
standing.”
Bertha raised a sinewy arm.
“Out there, by the big green tree,
you see?”
“Yes.”
“That was the old homestead,
my father tell me years ago.
Made of split slabs. Roof used
to be bark, now they got tin on
it. We use that one for store —
old timber, paint, that kind of
thing. Should have pulled it
down; nearly falling now.”
“Did your father know—did
he ever mention the name of the
man who built it? The name of
Condon?”
Bertha looked vague, unin-
habited. “No, never said. I got
scones in the oven, Missus —
Hastings. I think better go and
look now.”
Mrs. Hastings, swinging a
paste earring (good God!),
looked at Condon wearily.
“Were there any more questions
you would like answered, Mr.
Condon?”
Condon shook his head,
humbly thanking Bertha. The
wall was blank, of course.
Little enough had ever been
written on it. The years, the
dust of the dry seasons, the wet
of the monsoons, had washed
out names, memories, whatever
there had been. But he would
like to look at that hut, just the
same, before he went.
“Tell me,” Mrs. Hastings
turned to him with a pallid show
of interest; “how long ago were
your people here?”
“My great-grandfather left
here in eighteen-sixty-five.”
“Good heaven s,” Mrs.
Hastings murmured, now defin-
itely dismissing him as hopeless.
“Fancy being still interested in
it. Would you like to go and
look at the shed, perhaps? My
husband won’t be home for an
hour, but I do hope you will stay
to meet him.”
Condon rose with
“Yes, I should like to look at
it, thank you. I shall have to
be going shortly, though. My
appointment in Hambleton is
for this evening.”
“Please make the place your
own,” Mrs. Hastings invited.
“I wish we could do more for
you. We don’t get so many
people dropping in for a chat,
do we?” Her eyes said plainly
that this chat had been a sore
disappointment.
/LONDON made his way down
the side steps and turned
towards the old building. As he
left the shade Of the roof, heat
took him by the shoulders and
dry air burned his lungs.
November was no month to
travel in north-western Queens-
land ; he would not take this
particular dirty job on again for
the firm, if he could help it. It
was the name of the town that
had arrested his attention—
Hambleton. So it still existed,
he had thought, that name that
had come into the old diary,
written in a tpsty pale ink like
dried blood Then the places
were real. He would go apd see.
The little hut, crooked, totter-
ing against a support like an
old grey staggerer on a crutch,
had yet been honestly built, it
was easy to see ; and he remem-
bered the progress' of the work,
noted in the diary over the
months —the choosing of trees,
the felling, the splitting and
dressing of the slabs, the
mortising ; then the roof was on,
the ant-bed floor smoothed.
Ellen and the two children
moved into the house yesterday.
A great change from the wagon
and we are rejoicing accordingly.
All now looks fair for our new
venturer and .the cattle so far
doing well.
He bent down to examine
that ninety-year-old mortising—
yes, Stephen had known his job.
“As far as I can tell,” he said
to himself, bitterly. For it seemed
to him suddenly that there was
a pride in’ that work that he
himself had never known.
Inside, the hut was shelved
and stacked with cast-off and
useless material accumulated
over the years. Two old
wagon-wheels leaned ip a
corner; slabs, fencing-posts,
coils of rusted wire, branding-
irons, nameless pieces of timber
and metal, dusty odd stirrup-
irons, buckles, bits of chain —all
deeply dusted with the piercing
whitish grit that blew outside
on every wind.
He looked at the window-
space, nailed-up with timber
and hung with a few pieces of
aged greenhide. There Ellen
(he did not think of her as his
own great-grandmother, so real
had she become to him in his
absorption in that old diary)
had sat and worked ; had stood
shaking with ague while the two
children tossed feverishly in the
rough stringybark bunks; had
endured her private lonelinesses,
enjoyed her brief pleasures.
Ellen, the Devonshire girl,
seventeen when she married,
twenty when she came here,
twenty-two when she died—who
had loved birds and fed them
with scanty crumbs, who had
hated snakes and lost her
daughter by one. And by the
window stood a rough-sawn
table, built-in one with the wall;
Stephen had made that.
■OUT the heat in the little room
drove him back to the door.
It was inhuman, that heat; the
climate of another world. He
leaned gasping on the doorpost,
and looked out beyond the
homestead-buildings to the thin
ragged trees that clung to this
earth —an earth that burned the
hand.
Pioneers, oh pioneers!
A lot of ro’ was talked about
them. As though they had been
better than human creatures, as
though they had been equipped
with an extra allowance of
endurance, virtue, nobility, as
though they had been —cliches.
One didn’t put up with this
unless one had to, said Mrs.
Hastings dimly in his mind. Or
had they, indeed, been different?
Was there something in old
Stephen—some faith, some
vitality—that Mrs. Hastings and
he, John Condon, had never
known? Nonsense to ask. One
could know no more than the
diary said.
And what did it say, of the
life lived in the crazy hut that
sagged beside him? Death,
death, and again death ; hope
revived and lost again ;, loneli-
ness, hard work, semi-starva-
tion ; and at last the handwrit-
ing that was unrecognisable and
conformed to no ruled lines
My wife is dead.
No name, no details, and
nothing more said; the diary
ended. It was by chance he had
found out the rest, down in the
hot northern port; in the
crumbling earliest file of an old
newspaper, consulted more in
idleness than expectation. So
Stephen Condon had left his
venture, nothing but graves be-
hind him. One son, the eldest
child, remained ; he had ridden
with the boy in a pack-saddle,
those three hundred miles, to
the northern port, and died
there. >
Of what had happened after
that, John Condon had no idea.
Only the diary remained, washed
up on the shore of his father’s
death, unexplained among old
papers. On it his father had
written, among a scrawled
crowd of jotted sums, whose
pounds, shillings and pence had
probably never added up to any
advantage for the Condons who
had lived on hope and the three-
thirty at Rosehill.
Diary of my grandfather ? ? ?
So sank Stephen Condon be-
hind question-marks into a lost
past.
And what on earth had
brought his great-grandson nos-
ing here? , Nothing had come of
this but a headache. Did he
want to live here, in this disas-
trous oven of a place which had
already started every nerve
throbbing behind his eyes? Even
if he had been able to buy the
place—and most certainly he
couldn’t —no, he certainly did
not.
He leaned giddily against the
door-post and looked round for
shade. Death! The hut was
full of it.
But round this wall and be-
yond there was shade. Seeina
it only as a respite in the terrible
attack of a world-wide light he
made for it thankfully Not
until he looked up did he see the
dark-green depth of swayine
leaves, the cool cave of branches
the blessing of that color. A
weeping fig-tree.
Today Ellen planted the Port
Jackson Fig. She had kept it
alive in a crock all the way in
the wagon, I must say almost
miraculously. We plan for our
old age a bench and table under
it, though it is now just one foot
in height. It will make a splendid
shade in the garden.
A black and bitter day for us.
Today we buried little Jane
under the fig-tree. Ellen says she
cannot bear to have her any
further from the house.
Ellen last night bore a son,
which died at birth. She is grief ',
stricken and very weak. The
child is buried near little Jane.
One son remains to u 5 ....
A sentimental journey. A
crazy journey. Yet he could not
help feeling, as he looked up into
the old tree’s shadows, a strange
triumph. “Well,” he said to
himself, hardly knowing why,
“that was worth coming for.”
Yes, that tree. It was an
achievement of some kind. It
was huge, alive, green, in that
country of stunted greys. And
in it, he told himself, those dead
Condons must have some part;
their red blood had fed its green!
It was taller than anything he
could see. The Condons and the
landscape were reconciled in it,
failure and hopelessness forgot-
ten. Something sprang up in
himself; here was a root, here
was something he had needed.
A/f'RS. HASTINGS came deli-
cately across the grassless
waste ; her enormous hat was
a feathery pink straw.
“Do come and have a drink,
Mr. Condon. Do you know,
you’ve been here nearly an
hour? I quite thought you had
a sunstroke or something.”
He indicated the tree on im-
pulse. “My great-grandmother
and two of her children are
buried near that tree.”
Now why had he said that?
For it was a boast, he knew.
Mrs. Hastings screamed a
little.
“But how dreadful! That just
puts the finishing-touch on the
place for me. You don’t know
how creepy graves make me feel.
Do come back to the house. My
husband is just washing; he
would so much like to meet
you, I’m sure.”
Driving away, John Condon
was the minor businessman
again. He had not much time
to get to fown for that appoint-
ment. Tall and incredibly
green, the weeping fig stood out
in that withered landscape; but
he did not look back. He had
got what he had come for.


WITH THE SUN ON MY
BACK
by John K. Ewers
An intelligent and sympathetic sur-
vey of the potentially rich, sparsely
settled area of Australia north of
the Tropic of Capricorn. Lively and
informative comment, packed with
fascinating detail. With 39 photo-
graphs. 21/- (post 7d.)
AUSTRALIAN PLANTS for
the GARDEN
by Thistle Y. Harris
Tells how you can grow Australian
flowers, trees, shrubs and ferns in
your own garden. Much detailed
information for preparation, grow-
ing, protecting plants, with plans
and illustrations.
63/- (post 1/3)
Write, ’phone, or call in for these, or any of the new books now
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
»h St., Sydney 66-68 Elizabeth St, Melbourne, C.l
The
Library
Association
Australia
President; Rt. Hon. Sir John Latham,
G.C.M.G., M.A., LL.M., Q.C.
Libraries of all kinds provide an
infinite variety of free books to meet
the cultural, educational, literary and
business needs of the Australian
people.
Membership of The Library Associ-
ation of Australia is now open to
corporate bodies and individuals
interested in the promotion, establish-
ment and improvement of Libraries
in Australia.
Corporate and individual Members,
who have full voting powers, can
materially assist in the dissemination
of information and ideas throughout
the Commonwealth.
All such Members receive free of
charge the quarterly ‘Australian
Library Journal’, and may attend
regular quarterly meetings which
feature interesting addresses by pro-
minent people.
For further information write to :—
THE CONVENER
PROMOTIONS COMMITTEE OF THE LIBRARY
ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALIA
c/o Free Library Service Board of Victoria
Swanston Street, Melbourne, C. 1
mainland found they were being duped
the Nationalists rounded-up the Formo-
san traitors and shot them.
In the Philippines he found the same
resentment of the Japanese Peace Treaty
that he had heard from Chiang Kai-shek :
they admitted that the American Gov-
ernment had paid for reconstruction,
that Philippines veterans were getting the
same benefits as American veterans, and
that the Reconstruction Finance Corpora-
tion had lent them much money ; they
had received, in all, the equivalent of
almost 2000 million dollars. But they
felt that Japan should pay them
8,000,000 dollars in reparations. Mr.
Dewey found himself recruited by the
American Ambassador to calm them
down.
He had some satisfaction in finding
that the street named after his fifth
cousin, the Admiral (Dewey Boulevard),
was the best in town ; that the Communist
Huk guerrillas were being got under con-
trol ; and that Philippine health had im-
proved so much under 40 years of
American supervision; but he was
shocked to find that there, and through-
out the Pacific, the people threw away
the huSks of rice. Two young American
scientists reduced some husks to a color-
less liquid and sprayed white rice with
it. This overcame the prejudice of the
people to eating brown husks. Tests
then showed that beri-beri disappeared
among people eating the sprayed rice and
increased in groups eating the white rice.
In the ferment of refugee-ridden Hong
Kong he heard of the Chinese Com-
munists’ deliberate plan to make the
Chinese people accomplices in national
guilt:
“In rural areas [he was told] they have
an exact formula. Five hundred out of
every ten thousand must be killed....
often they are brought from as much as
fifty miles away.... so the people of the
village won’t know who they are. Then
the trial is held, the people are all gathered
together and called upon to denounce the
victims. After they are condemned, the
peasants are made to beat them to death,
continuing even after they are dead so all
will have blood on their hands,”
He was told of a similar pattern of
procedure by which children were en-
couraged tc denounce their parents, and
the parents tried and executed—with the
deliberate aim of breaking-up the worship
of family and ancestors which is so
marked a feature of Chinese society.
In Indo-China he met General de
Lattre, since dead, and recorded with
admiration the effect the General had
on the mouldering French campaign
against Ho Chi Minh, the Communist
leader. Cambodia he regarded as a kind
of chocolate for a good boy—-he wanted
to see Angkor, the ancient city and
palace rescued from the jungle ; but it
also gave him an opportunity of visiting
the young King of Cambodia in his
capital at Pnom Penh, in his Court where
the King and Cabinet wear blue sam-
pots (“fastened around the waist and
then tucked up between the legs”) on
Fridays. They have a different color
for each day, and Friday is blue-day.
He found the King a charming young
man, trying to foist liberty upon his more
than three million subjects in the form of
an elected Parliament; he reports the
Cambodians as wondering how long Red
China will leave them alone, and as
anxious that the French should not with-
draw. Events of recent months this
year, 1953, however, the young King’s
withdrawal from Cambodia as a protest
against French occupation, seem to query
Mr. Dewey’s judgment on this point.
In Indonesia, as everywhere, Mr.
Dewey seems more pleased to find a
Nationalist Government which is anti-
Communist than to worry about how it
got there. The problems of national
health which have arisen since the firm
Dutch hand was taken away shocked
him; but his main criticism is of the
representatives of American aid who do
not do their best to mechanise and de-
velop the new republic.
He was told in Japan that one good
man would be better than a dozen bad
ones; and he speaks with some heat
here, and no doubt said a good deal more
in Washington on his return, about the
engineers and administrators of America’s
millions of aid-money who bungle jobs,
or leave them for jobs in Europe, where
life is easier and promotion surer, or
who make so much of their personal
comfort as to justify the remark of an
Indian U.N. delegate in Djakarta; “It
looks as though America is going to
colonise Djakarta with dogs and rela-
tives.”
He met President Soekarno:
Even in private conversation he argued
his country’s claim to Irian (Dutch New
Guinea) with great vigor. “I tell them,”
he said, “that the problems of Irian will
be solved, that we will contest with the
Dutch until they give it to us; but I warn
them we must not tear up the Round Table
Agreement because it is the source of our
sovereignty.”
Although Mr. Dewey holds out the
welcoming hand to this “sixth-largest
nation” of the world, and admires its
cure for jaundice by eating head-lice,
and reviews its immense possibilities for
development, he has to say:
The native Dutch still in Indonesia suffer
from the hostility of the populace, though
six thousand of them provide the main
body of trained public servants. There
are too few to run such a large country
and foo many to be absorbed. Without
them, no one knows what would happen
to the Government.
But that South Pacific Governments
should be anti-Communist is their justi-
fication for Mr. Dewey’s purpose. “It
must be clear,” he says in his two-page
conclusion, “Pacific Anchors,” “that for
the sake of our own freedom we should
take action in the Pacific similar to that
which we have taken in the Americas
and in Western Europe. If France re-
mains steadfast in Indo-China, south-
east Asia and the free Pacific can win
through—always provided that the Red
Chinese do not launch a new invasion. I
am confident that the Chinese will not
attack if the United States develop,
within the structure of the United
Nations, a total Pacific Treaty of mutual
defence.”
The Singer Not the Song: Audrey
Erskine Lindop (Heinemann). Long
after the post-revolutionary re-establish-
ment of the Roman Catholic church in
Mexico, the small village and district of
Quantana remained terrorised by an anti-
clerical group of bandits. This gang is
led by Anacleto, a young man of un-
usually beautiful physical appearance,
who,is popularly known as “Malo- [Bad
One] of-the-Cats,” with which animals
the more superstitious peasantry believe
him to have a supernatural affinity.
With a strong church the bandits could
not retain their power, and Father Keogh,
a young and vigorous priest, is sent to
Quantana to replace the aged Father
Gomez, whose rather diffident spirit has
been completely broken by his religious
defiance in the revolution, and by the
bandits. The book is the story of Father
Keogh’s struggles, both physical and
spiritual, over a period of years. This
is by no means a great novel of spiritual
conflict, on which level it tends to be
shallow and oversimplified with char-
acters too stylised for conviction. How-
ever, as a story of adventure and of
honesty versus cunning it is entertain-
ingly told and holds interest.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 236
Across.
I —They may be dropped without a
sound one with reasons to
scratch. (7)
5 —A trusty comrade among current
aversions. (7)
8— Where Simple Simons fish for a
tennis-player I am among friends.
(5)
9 Boycotted distances among Mon-
tana Indians. (9)
. 11-r-Fen city is barely disbarred. (3)
13— Bring into bondage during the
tenth rally. (7)
14— Place in N.S.W. where one very
often finds snow and dank air, (7)
16—Rabble-rouser to give the sack
trade-mark. (9)
19—Polonius died behind this French
city when centrally embarrassed.
(5)
21—Indian flower makes industry
effortless. (5)
23—These are used by some cooks
to flavor vacations by Port
Phillip. (3, 6)
25—East affirmative fired what we
see, through. (3-4)
28—I’m a very pretty. girl—so :
Charge! (7)
30 —Changed one qualifies the new
things. (3)
31 — A former spouse has time for
musicians and his Italic Majesty
on the spur of the moment. (9)
32 — Boadicea’s people freeze in back-
ing. (5)
33 — These arc cabs if turning to
landed properties. (7)
34 One rat’s renegade crime. (7)
Down
1— Cleopatra, as seen by Mark
Antony or any starveling; Jona-
than, as seen by Saul or any
starveling. (5, 2,3, 3)
2 Edward, who reminds people of
their faults, chirped. (8)
3 He waters the garden horse
irregularly. (5)
4 Sorceress is up by fifty. (5)
5 Woe is me! There is a daily
shortage. (9)
6 Icelandic volcano barracker by
the sound of it. (5)
7 Tyre of antiquity has lost this
trade retaining it. (5)
10—Anti-shirt man's muddled descrip-
tion of the Panama Canal. (13)
12 —Den dresser who is flash and
“loud.” (4)
15 —Senoras have no season? (3)
17 — Transport business beginning. (3)
18— This bird lets Jolson go to the
wickets with a bearer of bad
tidings from “Macbeth.” (9)
19— Dread one with nous. (3)
20 — They show about calves. (9)
22 —Downs complement these in
vicissitudes. (3)
24 —Zola turns up with fruit. (4)
26 — Special edition run that isn’t oft
the bat. (5)
27 — More crippled composition by
Debussy. (5, or 2,3)
28— Shut up in it; it’s unsuitable and
unskilful. (5)
29 — lam in the middle of the physical
attitude balance. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 235


N.S.W.; Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Mo%t- Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Adelaide Stockowners’ Co-
operative Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS
This entire page Is a FAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED
July
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1953
MILKING EQUIPMENT MODERNISATION
AN URGENT NECESSITY
Says Dairy Industry Spokesman
He reiterated the recent statement by the Federal Minister of Commerce and Agri-
culture, Mr. J. McEwen, that Australian Butter and Cheese export prices were not
competitive with other important export countries.
Mr. McEwen said “We must re-
duce our cost of production. With
so many cost items beyond the con-
trol of the industry we must look
to increased efficiency to decrease
cost of production,” he said.
The problem of increasing the
profit margin for producers, and
at the same time lowering prices,
is the dilemma of the Dairying
Industry today. Our spokesman
said, “The solution to the problem
must depend on increased mech-
anisation, better disease control and
pasture improvement methods.”
Improvements in these directions
are being continually made. On
the New South Wales North
Coast, “Strip Grazing,” which by
use of a single-wire portable elec-
tric fence restricts cows to daily
grazing areas, has enabled returns
as high as £35 per acre to be ob-
tained by many dairy farmers.
The present marketing situation
presents many anomalies which
are not helping the industry.
The cost of butter production is
estimated at approximately 4/1
per pound. Whereas, under the
present long-term agreement with
Great Britain, which still has
nearly two years to go, butter is
sold at 3/6 per pound. Whether
a higher price could have been
obtained on a free market is
doubted by Foreign Trade ex-
perts.
If production costs increase or re-
main as they are at present, the
Bureau of Agricultural Eco-
nomics warns, any increased pro-
duction will mean lower returns
to producers.
The first step in lowering pro-
duction costs must be the moderni-
sation of milking plant. Old-
fashioned machines, covered with
unnecessary complicated gadgets,
wasted valuable hours to dismantle
and clean. Now, with over 40
years of intense study and practi-
cal experience behind it, Moffat-
Virtue Ltd. offers the industry a
Milking Machine specifically de-
signed to cut the dairyman’s toil
to an absolute minimum.
This new and entirely original
milking plant, designed on lines
laid down by leading World
dairying authorities, is by far the
most advanced plant on the
market today.
With the new Moffat-Virtue
Milking Machine, milking and
Washing-up time can be cut in
half, repair and replacement bills
reduced to a minimum, leaving
the dairyman more time to attend
to many other necessary jobs
which are often unfortunately ne-
glected, particularly pasture im-
provement.
The Moffat-Virtue
Simplified Milking
Machine. This
typical layout
shows the compact ,
space-saving fea-
tures, and the
simple design of
the plant . . . it’s no
exaggeration that
even a child could
operate it.
Full particulars
may be obtained
from any one of
the Distributors
listed below.
THE PROOF OF
THE PUDDING...
Actual experience has shown
how much time and labour you
can save with a Moffat-Virtue
Milker. A safe estimate of milk-
ing time is 12 cows per unit
per hour.
Milking Time
No. of Size of (inc. wash- No. of
Cows Plant ing up) Hands
20 2 li 1
30 2 If 1
40 3 H 2
50 3 2 2
60 3 2i 2
70 4 2 2
80 4 2* 2
Here are some of the features
that make the Moffat-Virtue
Milker your best buy.
Exclusive Control Assembly: This
ingeniously designed unit con-
trols the whole plant, dispensing
with much messy bearings, shaft-
ing, brackets and other fittings.
Incorporating the M.V. Full-
Rotary Pulsator, driven by a
positive Vee-belt from the
vacuum pump, gives that gentle,
even “squeeze-release” action
so necessary for perfect milk-
ing.
Automatic Vacuum-Control; does
away with unreliable vacuum
gauges, ensures an even con-
stant vacuum.
Quick action releaser: can be
dismantled for washing in five
seconds! No obscure corners to
harbour dirt. . . made from acid-
resisting heavily nickel-plated
cast bronze and spuncopper.
This machine will actually make
money for the Dairyman who in-
stalls it. Figure it out for your-
self .... Here is a machine that
cuts labour costs, gives the cow
more time in the pasture, and
consequently increases milk
yields . . . and through its
hygienic design, protects the milk
from dust and dirt. Here is a
machine that a child can operate
. . . that can be dismantled for
cleaning in five seconds.
These are just some of the fea-
tures which, in the opinion of
Milking machine experts every-
where, make the new, modernised
MOFFAT-VIRTUE Milking
machine pre-eminent for all-
round economy, reliability and
return on your investment!
