

for port wine of , BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
MAKING TOO MUCH OF MOTHER
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3850
Wednesday, November 25, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
THE two finest castles in Northern
Ireland are both in County Antrim
and both stand by the sea —Dunluce and
Carrickfergus. The latter rises from a
spur of rock in Belfast Lough, ten miles
from the capital city. Its name meaning
“The Rock of Fergus” recalls a king
of that name who was shipwrecked oil
the Antrim coast about a.d. 320.
Carrickfergus was the first castle of its
kind to be established in Northern Ireland
and its builder is believed to have been
Hugh de Lacy, Had of Ulster. It was
begun between the years 1180 and 1205
and until a few years ago it had the dis-
tinction of being the only stronghold of
its kind to be continuously occupied since
its erection; it was never without its
military garrison. -
As the chief centre of Anglo-Norman
power in Ulster, Carrickfergus was a
fortress of outstanding importance which
was shared by the town which grew up
near its walls. By 1669 the Town of
Carrickfergus had 815 buildings and 3500
inhabitants whereas Belfast had only 150
buildings and was therefore only a village
in comparison. Even before the arrival
of the Anglo-Normans, however, Carrick-
fergus was a place of some note owing to
its sheltered harbour.
The great square Keep, surrounded by
its massive walls, nine feet thick and
rising to a height of 90 feet, are still in
a good state of preservation. The ground
floor served as a magazine and above it
the spacious room on the third floor is
known as “Fergus’s Dining Room.” The
double-towered western gateway is an
addition of the thirteenth century, and it
possesses a portcullis which can still be
worked. Originally the fortress was
protected on its landward side by moat
and drawbridge, both of which have since
disappeared.
Carrickfergus was besieged many times
during its long and stormy history. In
1210 the castle was attacked by King
John and in 1315 it was taken after a
great struggle by Edward Bruce, aided by
King Robert of Scotland. Later it re-
verted to the English and in 1689 it was
captured by General Schomberg for
William of Orange, The following year
King William landed at Carrickfergus and
the spot where he first set foot in Ireland
is commemorated today by a tablet.
It was within sight of Carrickfergus
Castle, in the waters of Belfast Lough,
that Paul Jones (1778), founder of the
American Navy, ran up the American
flag in his ship the Ranger and after a
raking broadside put H.M.S. Drake out
of action.
CARRICKFERGUS, FAMOUS OLD ULSTER FORTRESS


The Red Page
THE WORLD IN ART
HBR; / —. — B 'i TORJSgffg|l *HR*i£
And now that prolific organisation.
Penguin Books, has started pouring out
from its presses the first complete his-
tory of world art ever printed in the
English language. There have been
French and German surveys, but they are
forty and fifty years old.
Since then the archaeologists and
scholars have been busily excavating
and investigating and they have thrown
up into the light of day evidences of
astonishing activity in art and architec-
ture thousands of years ago in places
where nobody knew that they existed
and the quality revealed is as fresh as
anything that came out of the studio of
Rodin and much more modern than any-
thing yet produced by the “modern”
movement. Each volume of the series
will include over 300 illustrations, and the
art of the aborigines, China, Japan,
India, Islam, Russia, the pre-Columbian
civilisations and heaven knows what else
will be covered by savants from Italy,
France, Germany, Austria and Holland,
while the Mediterranean countries to the
end of the Roman civilisation will be
treated in seven volumes, the Middle
Ages in thirteen, and the centuries not
far behind us in nineteen. It will take
ten years to complete the gigantic pro-
ject which starts off with The Art and
Architecture of India by Benjamin Row-
land, Professor of Fine Arts at Harvard.
Professor Rowland writes with far
more discernment than most art-
commentators, and the examples he gives
to illustrate his 280-page analysis of the
aims of the Indian artist and the influ-
ences that came into the flow of native
self-expression from the days of the
Indus Valley empire 4000 years before
our era up to comparatively modern
times are well selected. He discounts the
notion that the Greek influence was
introduced into the Indus Valley by
Alexander’s generals. They were far too
busy fighting one another during their
brief sojourn to bother about beauty, and
it was probably some imported Roman
craftsman or his Indian apprentice who
carved Herakles and his lion and the
Roman-looking portraits during the
Augustinian era when India and Rome
sent ambassadors to one another.
In India from the earliest times no
hard-and-fast line was drawn between
the spiritual and the fleshly. Their his-
tory, in terms of the various philosophies
and religious cults, wavers between an
excessive asceticism and an excessive
eroticism, and this excessiveness is re-
flected in their architecture and sculp-
ture. The Indian sculptor was just as
likely to depict his gods in the frenzy
of an orgiastic dance as in the calm
contemplation of the absolute.
The Greeks liked the idea of the
Golden Mean, a balance between the
various opposing desires in human
beings, and that attitude finds expres-
sion in the serenity and poise of their
endless series of Aphrodite statues, a
magnificent example of which, incident-
ally, is in the National Gallery in Mel-
bourne, if it hasn’t been lost or stolen.
In Indian art an intense emotionalism
finds expression, and when the carver is
confronted with the problem of making
a certain area of stone live he runs wild
and literally covers it with writhing
limbs, grinning faces and seductive hips
and bosoms.
The east gate of the Great Stupa at
Sanchi is a supreme example, and at
Borobudur in Java there are five miles
of frescoes depicting the life of Buddha
into which the native carvers couldn’t
help getting a lot of the details of their
own lives, just as did the carvers of the
great Gothic cathedrals.
There was the same excess in the
architecture. The dome of the Ruwan-
weli dagoba at Anuradhapura in Ceylon
is 254 ft. in diameter and 180 ft. high
and only the largest of the Egyptian
pyramids exceed it; and there were
scores of others. The foundations of
the shrine of Angkor Wat in Cambodia,
built by the Khmers when the popula-
tion was a handful, are 3000 ft. square,
about the size of inner Melbourne, and
on it are piled galleries and arcades and
towers rising to the topmost spire
250 ft. above the ground: and every square
foot of surface is covered with carving or
niched for a statue.
The fabulous city of Pataliputra had
560 towers and 64 gateways in the circuit
of its walls, according to Megasthenes,
and the great 13-storey memorial to
Buddha raised by King Kanishka at
Peshawar had a height of 700 ft. and
was surmounted by thirteen copper
umbrellas. The umbrellas, by attracting
lightning, ensured the destruction of the
tower, so it might bav,e been better if
the architects had had less emotion and
more science. But then they would have
been like our modern architects who
know more about plumbing than they
do about beauty and who talk of houses
as machines for living.
A quaint idea like that would never
have entered the head of an Indian
artist, who was dominated by religion;
so much so that when he sculpted a
Dyani Buddha sitting on a lotus he held
rigidly to a templet dictated by the priest-
hood. He worked within a frame from
which plumb-lines were suspended so
that the bridge of the nose, the dimple
on the chin, the navel, the tips of the
fingers and the upturned heels were
exactly below one another, and the whole
form had to be squeezed into a
rectangle. Thus the form was as precise
as the beats in a Shakspearian sonnet.
Professor Rowland says: “Although
the use of such a mechanical device
might appear to result in complete dead-
ness, it must be remembered that
machines like this and the system of
proportions were merely aids which the
artist’s particular inspiration and skill
was expected to utilise to the full meas-
ure 'of his technical and aesthetic
capacity.” This is quite true; it wasn’t
the form but what was put into the form
that was important. It is just that inner
thing which makes all the difference
between a sonnet by Shakspeare and a
sonnet by some literary imitator.
The fleshiness of some of the Buddhas
illustrated in this volume, notably the
copper Buddha from Sultanganj in
plate 85, is amazing. The limestone
torso from the lost city of Harappa in
Central Asia is so startling in its life-
likeness that you can almost see the
hands of the sculptor who lived 4000
years before our era feeling the contours
of his living model, as did Rodin. It
looks the exact opposite of what the
commentator calls it —a symbolic rather
than descriptive representation.
Indian architecture, admittedly, is not
very efficient. Modern architecture is
extraordinarily efficient but it is extra-
ordinarily boring. Indian architecture,
whether it turns up in Afghanistan, Tibet,
Siam or Bali, is often grotesque but it
is certainly not boring; the worship of
the Hindu gods as personifications of
natural forces may have been absurd
but its effects weren’t. The modern wor-
ship of comfort and sanitation hasn’t
any artistic effects whatever.
There is one aspect, however, that has
been neglected in this volume —there is
not a solitary example of the erotic in
it, the very thing which was the chief
inspiration of Indian art and which
differentiates it from the art of most
other races. The Greeks liked to depict
their gods and goddesses as passive.
The Indians liked to depict theirs as
excitecf and uplifted, inspired by Kama.
The only indication of this in the present
volume is in the carvings of the dancers.
Otherwise there is not a hint in all these
300 illustrations that Indian art in this
important aspect is any different from
the art of Western races, and an entirely
false impression is created, as was also
dong in this respect by the exhibition of
Indian art that recently toured Aus-
tralia.—M. G. S.
A Woman of Japan
Daughter of the Pacific, by yoko Mat-
suoka (Heinemann), is a series of auto-
biographical episodes written in English
by a Japanese woman, born in 1916, to
parents each of whom were descended
fropi ancient Samurai families.
Yoko’s father and mother were both
prominent journalists, widely travelled.
Western in much of their philosophy,
liberal in politics and thought but be-
lieving in “Asia for the Asiatics” and
anxious that their society should retain
such traditional qualities as they con-
sidered admirable.
Yoko’s parents, while determined that
their three daughters should pursue such
careers as appealed to them and suited
their talents, had hoped that one might
become a sort of liaison-officer between
Japan and America. Yoko appeared to
her mother to be the appropriate child
for this mission, and was accordingly
educated in America from the age of
sixteen.
Her education before going to America
had been in several Japanese schools,
including one spartan establishment con-
ducted by her aunt, a prominent educa-
tional thinker, and at a school for
Japanese children in Seoul, where the
family lived for some years when her
father worked for his newspaper ‘there.
Yoko Matsuoka makes some penetrating
comments upon Japanese-occupied.
Korea, Later she compares and con-
trasts facts noted there with things seen
in Japanese-occupied Manchuria, and
finally with life in American-occupied
Japan.
Her account of life during the war,
most of which time she spent in Tokyo,
is fascinating. In spite of her journalistic
contacts (her father edited the Philippines
edition of his paper, “Mainichi,” from
Manila for some years, and had much
influence), the Matsuoka family, like
anyone else, were frequently ignorant of
events-—they had even been unprepared
for the actual outbreak of violence. War
brought about the author’s separation and
later divorce from the husband whom she
had, not too unwillingly, married by
family arrangement, and to whom she had
borne a daughter.
Towards the end of the book observa-
tions of and feelings about the War
Crimes Tribunal and its horrifying reve-
lations are of especial interest, as, also,
are her assessments of post-war Japanese
attitudes: “We have really struggled to
find a new source of strength. We had
to. It was impossible to go on living
without any belief or standards.”
It should be added that Yoko Mat-
suoka is a practising Christian from a
Christian family and that her group of
friends and acquaintances, Christian or
otherwise, tend to be enlightened, intelli-
gent and idealistic. She believes, for ex-
ample, that the militaristic faction have
lost their power to sway the people ; and
one would hardly cafe to bet on that. As
far as her criticisms go, however, they
are as unsparing, unsentimental and ob-
jective as one could reasonably expect
from a woman of her background and
experience. Daughter of the Pacific may
leave unasked some questions of interest
to the West, but that does not detract, as
it stands, from its present interest as a
document of social history.
Tasman Flights
The ghosts of excitements that have
become part of the lives-of most Aus-
tralians now adults rise from Wings
Across the Tasman, 1928-1953, by Leslie
Jillett (Angus and Robertson); the fail-
ure of the New Zealanders Moncrieff and
Hood to fly the Tasman in 1928 ; the suc-
cess of Kingsford Smith and Ulm eight
months later; the first solo flight by Guy
Menzies in 1931; the seaplane solo from
New Zealand to Australia by Francis
Chichester in 1931 ; the “most reckless
flight” of Whitehead and Nicholl “virtu-
ally sitting in turn on each other’s lap”
in a single-engined Puss Moth in 1934 ;
Jean Batten, in 1936 ... the opening of
the Tasman flyingboat service on April
30, 1940, when the Aotearoa flew from
Auckland in Sydney with nine passengers
in slightly less than nine hours; the
flight by Flight-Lieutenant J. L. White-
man from Australia to New Zealand in
a single-engined Mustang in three hours
31 minutes on July 17, 1953.
Kingsford Smith’s name stands out in
these records, for the easy certainty of
his first flight and for the heroism of
his disastrous flight of 1935, when, 600
miles from the Australian coast, a loose
piece of manifold broke a foot or more
off the starboard propeller, they turned
the Southern Cross back, had to dump
34,000 letters —the trip was to prove the
possibility of a trans-Tasman airmail—
and P. G. Taylor performed his astonish-
ing feat, climbing out of the plane to
milk the oil from the starboard motor,
then climbing out to feed the port motor
with the oil thus obtained; Smith flying
the plane on one motor to allow Taylor
to get at the works until it was in danger
of falling into the sea, then starting the
motor again to regain height while Taylor
waited, lying over the cowl.
The recital of that story would make
any book; but then there is Francis
Chichester, the English-born New Zeal-
ander, who put floats on a de Havilland
Moth, flew from Auckland to Faranger-
enga, Parangerenga to Norfolk Island,
Norfolk Island to Lord Howe Island,
and there, leaving his aircraft for the
night “in the supposed security of a near-
by boat-pool,” returned next morning
to find only the tail and back of the
floats showing above water.
Wings and ailerons were smashed, the
instruments ruined, the floats crushed, the
motor corroded, the propeller chewed up.
An ordinary man might have called it
a day; but Chichester sent to Sydney
for materials and tools, and with men
from the island, and women sewing the
fabric on the new wings they made in
this “palm-island plane-factory,” he had
his aircraft “dancing off the surface of
the lagoon” within two months.
Those days, when a Guy Menzies, in
emulation of Lindbergh, could take off
ostensibly on a flight to Perth, turn
east, and overturn in a Hokitika swamp;
when a 24-year-old N.Z. journalist and
a 26-year-old N. S. Wales commercial
pilot crammed into the cabin of a Puss
Moth:
With practically the whole accommoda-
tion taken up by the extra tank, the seat-
ing accommodation became a problem. In
place of the third seat (after the other two
had been taken out to accommodate the
tank) a piece of board was substituted, and
on the control box was placed, doubled-
up, a cushion tied with string. Experi-
ments showed the men that even in this
confined space they could change places.
The man at the controls was placed
slightly lower than his companion, and
actually sat between the other man’s knees.
In the change-over the passenger stood up
as best he could and the other slipped
between his legs on to the cramped back
seat. As he did so he handed over the
controls.
No safety devices of any kind were
carried. The oil-pipe was merely a length
of hose-pipe, fed with a tin funnel when
oil was required. A plug of wood was
used for a stopper. A quart of oil was
poured down the pipe every hour. No
risks were taken with the petrol-supply and
a double system of feeding was used. For
navigation the fliers relied almost solely
on an ordinary aircraft compass.
—the days when motorists went in
droves to turn their lights on airfields,
and waited all through the night for an
overdue, or disabled plane to come in;
the days of that saddest story of all,
the report that the first triers, Moncrieg
and Hood, had made it; the speeches that
night of Captain Kight, at a dinner
and at the Tivoli: “It is one of the
greatest pleasures of my life ” and
“This is the proudest moment of my life”;
the doubts expressed next morning,
among congratulatory advertisements in
the papers ; the gradual abandonment of
hope . . . those days are gone for ever.
Nowadays when an airman wants ex-
citement, as we saw in a recent Red
Page, he buys a yacht and takes his
wife and friends on a trip to England
by way of South America’s difficult
Patagonian Channels.
"Scottish Lovers"
I would like to offer some information
on “Scottish Lovers” (B. 4/11/’53).
Henry son complete, in a beautiful yet
moderately-priced edition, was done by
Oliver & Boyd in 1933.
The Saltire Society edition* of
Alexander Scott is not a first-edition, as
he was published by Kegan Paul in 1902
for the Early English Text Society; in a
good edition, too.
Du a bar complete was done by the
Porpoise Press (Faber) in 1932, and the
same press in 1937 did The Cherrie and
the Slae by Alexander Montgomery.
Another volume of interest is Specimens .
of Middle Scots published by Blackwood
in 1902. . •
The volume you mention as The Gude
and Joellie Ballads should be described
as The Gude and Godlie Ballads. The
three-volume “Abbotsford” series is not
as easy to acquire as you suggest, as I
have two of them but cannot find the
third. However, your article was much
too short, for I trust that more than one
reader of The Bulletin reads the old
Makars. —Charles Campbell.
[*The reviewer mistook the inscription, “First
Edition, 1952,” on the back of the title-page
to refer to the poems, and not to this book ot
them. Clearly, Mr. Campbell has been more
fortunate, or perspicacious, than I, though I do
have the Cambridge “Dunbar” of 1907.
—R.McC.]
Maharajah: Richard Cargoe (Heine-
mann). The Rajah’s grown-up son and
daughter see a stranger feed a baboon,
gagged with one of the daughter’s scarves,
to a tiger ; the son rightly considers this
the prelude to a terrorist-murder in which
the Rajah and his family will be set-upon
-by the released tiger. Investigations re-
veal that the young Prince’s mistress, one
of his mother’s ladies-in-waiting, is an
accessory to the plot, and, indeed, to any-
thing that may involve a new amorous
enterprise ; and, during an exploration of
cave-paintings in which the Prince
seduces an English woman-photographer,
a terror is indeed released in the town,
and the palace zoo is set on fire. It is
an unusual story, but it doesn’t work
out very well.
* ♦ * *
The China Pig: Barbara Goolden
(Heinemann). Light and bright romance
probably appealing most to women
readers, and possibly too snobbish in its
point of view for some. Stella, whose
children Lesley and Paul have spent most
of their lives with their grandparents,
decides to allow her husband to return
from home-leave to Singapore alone.
The children, she feels, now that they
are almost grown-up, need her presence.
Diccon, Stella’s husband, is a gay philan-
derer, so that her decision involves some
risk to her marriage. Lesley has a tur-
bulent romance with a poet, and Paul
goes on the stage. Stella comes to feel
redundant, but at the end of the novel
all events justify her actions and the
story ends happily for those concerned.


? V V
I V
It:
r *
• ,-v..
w *
*■
V: ■%-
y
** - *>
%v
V.i
WHY DON’T YOU BE A MAIL
ORDER SANTA THIS YEAR?
It’s so simple for you! No more effort, in fact, than reaching for pen and ink—because
we do the rest! Our trained Mail Order experts select exactly what you
want, pack it so that it arrives in perfect condition and dispatch it promptly. And
it makes no difference whether you live 50 or 500 miles away!
■
h/Y*
jy.
7L
i
Two row Xaaytime pearls in red lined presentation
box makes a really wonderful gift, and the price is
only £6/15/- per box.
SS.
Hi SI
■■l
til
&
■■' *
SB
li
Darby and Joan weather cottage. The little man
comes out when it’s going to rain, the little lady
comes out when the weather is going to be fine.
Price 16/- each.
■ 1
iiA&it.. i.n; •
Gold lined prayer locket, with
Lord’s Prayer inside, priced at
24/- each.
iv
Small gold lined heart locket, for
a Christmas stocking, 19/- each.
4? a
0
g
a
a
i
Gold lined curb bracelets, 5 in.,
25/6; s£in., 26/9; 6in., 27/6;
64in., priced 29/9 each.
O/^JS
J ld
o
•J',.
Pearl choker and bracelet set.
Bracelet 28/6. Choker £2/12/6.
dfg
Gold lined golf bangles, I fin.,
27/9; If, 26/9; 2, 28/9; 2f.
29/9; 2%, 30/9; 2|, 31/9 each;
and 2fin., priced at 32/9 each.
\
\
\D
Chrome key chain, for the key
loser” of your family, priced at
22/6 each.
els
m
r*.
m
Lady’s Gold Filled Watch Band,
32/-. Stainless Steel 14/6.
ml?
Gents Link Watch Band. Chrome
17/-, Stainless Steel 26/6.
m
A
a
WW
mb
4W
yss&s?.
Gents Stainless Steel Link Watch
Band, 14/6.
dfg
10 carat gold lined bell bracelet,
priced at only £2/8/6 each.
///
/
J
Solid 9 carat gold sleeve links,
in presentation case, £4/2/« set.
df
9 carat silver lined sleeve links,
are priced at only £ 1/5/- set.
IV
\
'
Gold filled dress studs and link
set, in black, priced at 67/6 ea.
gd
Gold filled “Mayfair” arm bands,
are priced at only 26/- pair.
Vi
( c
m
nickel
chrome.
Gents
Mulco
watch.
lever
Swiss
priced at £l3/7/6.
BE SURE OF YOUR GIFTS. LAY-BY NOW FOR CHRISTMAS
A TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
nthonj Horderns
§s&
JEWELLERY DEPARTMENT-
PITT STREET. BOX 2712, G.P.0.. SYDNEY. PHONE: M 2401


Aw unhumble male objects
Making Too Much of Mother
By RON HARRISON
IN Making Fun of Father” on this
page recently Gavin Casey gave one
side of the medal of marital relation-
ships in Australia. Only towards
the end of the article did he indicate the
all-too-obvious truth about the male Aus-
tralian of today—he is hag-ridden!
This painful fact becpmes obvious to
Naussies, English-speaking and otherwise,
almost as soon as they hit the country,
It is a new development, and a frighten-
ing one as Casey must know well, since
he spent some time in the United States,
where the rule of the matriarch poisons
the whole nation, particularly as the new
matriarch has usually the brains, the
appetite and the habits of her symbolic
l ekmese dog.
By' a cunning combination of femin-
inely-slanted films, women’s magazines
and commercial-radio culture the innate
chivalry and decency of the male of the
human species has been so worked on
that, to all intents and purposes, today’s
Australian husband is little more than a
henpeck.
Australian male writers have also had
a lot to do with this development. They
have harped on the terrible hardships
undergone by pioneer women until even
the women themselves have come to be-
lieve that they were worse off than their
men.
But were they? On the face of it,
they had a rough time, with no refrigera-
tion, no electric-light, no running water,
, • c . n 1o ,;„~ cc
and none of the aids to laziness wmcn
the woman of today in many centres
claims as her right. But was it such
„ rnuoh
. ... _ lloc ,*: r . n jc ,- n
The best answer to that q „
the cemeteries in which these pioneers
lie buried. The typical grave shows John
Pioneer dead at 53, his wife (or relict,
as they call her on some stones) at any-
thing from 87 upwards. Who had the
toughest life, on that evidence?
® . . ... c ,. mn „ ttiv
The trouble is that g y P y
with some women such as is shown n
Henry Lawson and, t r
Casey s goldfield ston»-ha beeni abused
UnU l r* f S tur .? ed 111
m -ru 3 °t a to have said
The Jesuit are supposed to have said
that ., B ' van < he y n e f S O / a
child s life, theywouldhaYenofearof
nelkt fo^aLTars of a
man’s life—in fact, where father is hag-
ridden, as much as the first twenty—are
lived under the domination of the female
of the species, so that many men retain
all their lives the doctrine, hammered into
them by mother, grandmother, aunt and
sister, that Women Have a Rough Time,
The patent absurdity of the claim, often
made from a sofa where the female is
resting whilst the male works, is not
obvious to the youngsters ; and as for
the time when they reach the age of
reason—well. Hitler said that if a lie
is big enough and repeated often enough
it become* a truth!
Many Australian women, particularly
in towns and city suburbs, are nothing
but lazy parasites on the backs of their
balding and ulcer-ridden husbands. The
average British and European Naussie is
astonished to see Australian men, after
having done a full week’s work, turn
to on Saturday morning and do the family
washing. In my small town the man who
does this is the rule rather than the ex-
ception, even where he has pledged his
credit to buy his wife a washing-machine
to ease her burden.
Part of the claim that women have a
rough time is bound up with child-bearing
and -rearing. The average woman’s
thirteen-hour day is often cited in evi-
dence.
It is true that while children are young
a woman does, on the average, work just
a little longer than her husband, with
his bread-winning and travelling day of
ten to eleven hours, plus his work in
the garden to raise vegetables and in
the house to make it more comfortable
to live in . . . but how long does this
thirteen-hour day last for the woman?
Twelve to fourteen years at the most.
The man, once he has taken his vows,
has set himself for a complete life of
toil to keep a wife and family. But
the woman, once her fourteen years of
child-rearing are over, can look forward
to a lifetime of four-hour working-days.
Without mechanical aids the work of
an average house can be got through in
three hours, except for washing-days and
cooking. With those aids, two hours is
ample. The rest of the time is hers.
She spends it in various ways. In
the city she fills the early cinema per-
formances, the cafes, and the “ladies’
lounges” of hotels. In the country
she spends her afternoons reading, listen-
ing to the radio, or earnestly organising
afternoon-teas or musical-luncheons or
other functions to raise a little money
for some Cause, when much more money
could be raised much more easily by just
going round and asking people for it.
She has far too much time to kill;
far too much time in which to think of
herself and feel sorry for her-
self. The rich woman goes to a
psychiatrist; those with less money take
it out on their husbands.
The trend seems to be a new one.
Before the flood of radio- and printed-
propaganda, slanted to persuade women
that they are the depressed sex (as if
they needed any persuading), Australian
women were able to grow old gracefully,
to ignore, and allow their men to ignore,
the fact that by far the best of the
marriage bargain had gone to the women.
They bore themselves with dignity and
gave such dignity to their husbands.
But now that they, and their men, have
fallen for this propaganda, the men are
taking on the harassed look which was
until recently peculiar to the United
States husband, the women, the hungry,
predatory look which is the mark of
the American matriarch.
Making fun of father is a pretty poor
national pastime ; making too much of
mother can be a national disaster.
The sickly commercial sentimentality
of “Mother’s Day,” when the new
matriarch must be propitiated with any-
thing from a new car to a shining washing-
machine (for male operation), instead of
the mother being honored with a white
flower, is typical of the change which
has taken place in the past few years.
And, as a last thought, all these
mechanical aids which have made it
possible for the women to domineer the
men so effectively— not one of them was
invented by a woman!
A Little Discouragement
IT was apparently my lack of
response to the first two that
brought the third letter, a personal
one from the firm’s managing-
director himself. He must have felt
sure that I would be flattered on
getting not a roneoed copy of a
soufiess, stereotyped appeal on
which my name, one of a herd, would
be typed in different-colored ink,
but a man-to-man message over his
own signature.
He recalled with affection—just as
he must have perused my old hire-
purchase-transaction card with no
little emotion—that I had in the past
years been a most valued client. He
spoke with obvious deep feeling of
the pleasure it had given his firm to
serve me for so long, to our mutual
advantage. Above all, he stressed
that the satisfactory manner with
which my account had been con-
ducted was the prime factor in his
writing—a manner which prompted
him to confer a singular honor on
me.
That this acknowledgment of my
business integrity afforded me con-
siderable gratification was natural
enough. True, there had been several
occasions on which some person in
their accounts-section had, quite by
accident, affixed to a statement sent
to me a sticker sharply drawing atten-
tion to the fact that the account was
considerably in arrears. Only an un-
willingness to cause some poor devil
to get into trouble for carelessness
had precluded my registering a strong
protest at what could have developed
into a rift in our harmonious rela-
tions.
There had also been a couple ot
slid communications in which it was
pointed out that the missing of four
consecutive instalments was quite be-
yond their terms of credit. Yet it
says much for the geniality of our
relations that only six times in the
five years it took me to pay off the
frig, on the 48-months-to-pay basis
did I receive an epistle beginning:
“Dear Sir, Unless”
„ . a . .
a occaslon they certainly
demanded a cheque within seven
days, and this touching expression
of a profound faith in my ability to
sustain a hank account has remained
one of the treasured memories of
our association.
The letter, after getting the back-
slappinjg over, had, it appeared,
tidings of great joy to impart. I
had b6en selected as one of a strictly
exclusive coterie of clients who were
to have a rare benefit conferred. The
firm was starting a “Pay As You
Wear Out” scheme, and those on
whom the wonderful mantle of
preference had fallen would be thus
enabled to come in and, without the
payment of any deposit or of any
interest, select clothes up to a pre-
determined maximum amount, pay-
ments to be made over 16 weeks.
Obviously things were getting tight
in the rag trade. However, the letter
demanded some attention, so I took
stock of things sartorial.
I certainly could do with a new
evening-suit. The soup-and-fish I’d
had for 18 years had so shrunk
through repeated cleanings and my
being caught in some heavy showers
in it that whenever I wore it I never
took my hands out of the pockets,
the better to disguise the fact that
the sleeves normally showed lOin. of
shirt-cuff; this in turn had led to the
practice of having to shake hands
witii people through the cloth.
I could also do with a new lounge-
suit and a sports-suit. For years it
had been my dream to walk into a
store and order half-a-dozen shirts,
briefs, athletics and socks in quantity,
a few hats and several pairs of
trilbies. Here was my opportunity
for going off the deep-end!
So I presented myself to the credit-
manager. Our reunion was like that
of two long-lost brothers. Only the
fear that he might magnificently call
for a double-whisky when it was my
turn to shout prevented my accept-
ing his warm invitation to go over
th e road for a jug.
When I explained what I needed
his geniality became positively hbt.
He personally conducted me to the
head of the tailoring department,
who in turn impressed upon the head
cutter my fastidiousness as to fit. No
doubt Snips thought me some
tycoon, like a union secretary, or
that I’d just won the lottery,
After the measurements were taken
I gravitated to the mercery, and it
certainly was satisfying to see the
formidable pile of merchandise all
teed-up, as it were, to be driven off
to my residence.
All that remained was to sign-up.
A B a,n J so “Bht flie credit-manager
“<J wh ™ be b ? d ‘° ! ed ; u P what 1
h ad ordered his delight was un-
d’ t „ , A
, Now, as you know, he said, as
he s }*? ted to All-in a form, pay-
me?Vs spread over our prescribed
Pf lod without interest Your pur-
chases amount to eighty pounds
Spread over sixteen weeks, that will
be five pounds a week. You pay no
deposit. But the first instalment is
due, coursej as soon as y OU order
goods. That will be five pounds,
pi ease »*
“You must have that now?” I
as | cec j
“Yes,” he replied. “That is a rigid
rule of the firm.”
“Then,” I said, slapping five-bob
down, “it is my invariable rule never
to pay more than a dollar a week on
t.p.”
“But,” he protested, “at that rate
it would take you nearly seven years
to pay it off!”
"Manana!” I said. “Time, after
all, is only a man-made and arbitrary
division of eternity into convenient
slabs. The eternal mountains, could
they possess risible faculties, would
laugh at such”
But he was already savagely rip-
ping the contract up.
I shan’t be pestered with any more
cajolings to do business, I trust—or
will I?
BO.
A Dennis Forerunner
By Nancy Keesing
SYDNEY’S Mitchell Library pos-
sesses a copy of an 1896 publica-
tion, Hodgson’s “Colonial A 1
Reciter” Part 12, a booklet mainly
reprinting popular American recitations.
One of these, written by an author sign-
ing himself “The Poet Scout,” seems of
particular interest to admirers of C. J.
Dennis.
While the operations of coincidence
cannot be disregarded, it seems more than
likely that “Den” may either have read
or heard recited a work entitled “Romeo
and Juli-et.” Presumably only the more
popular overseas recitations would achieve
Australian reprint, and these crude verses
contain several obvious similarities to
lines in Dennis’s famous “The Play,” a
later, and, of course, far more talented
piece of writing.
The story of “Romeo and Juli-et” is
recounted in Yankee vernacular by an
old man who recalls how, in his youth,
his father permitted “a trup o’ real play-
actors” to stay overnight at his house so
that they could give a performance at the
local schoolhouse, there being no tavern
in the village.
The narrator, “jest fur helpin’ of ’em
tote their baggage down the lane got
permission tickets —one fur me an’ one
fur Jane.” The following verse goes:
’Twas “Romeo an’ Juli-et” they acted,
an’ / swear
Some o’ their strange predicaments ’d
raise a body’s hair,
An’ me an’ Jane jest sot there say in’
“Mercy’!” an’ “Good Lands !”
An’ every time they’d hug an’ kiss we’d
squeeze each other’s hands,
We larfed, an’ sighed, an’ cuddled up, an'
wiped each other's tears, 1
An’ wished to gosh the play’d last for
half-a-dozen years . . .
The outcome was that:
We couldn’t talk o’ nothin’ else the hull
nex’ live-hng day
But “Romeo an’ Juli-et"; I swear that
purty play
Jest tuk away my appetite, an’ Jane she
’peared to be
A-sufferin’ with the malady as violent as
me ...
Jane lived next-door to “me,” and, in-
spired by the drama, these sweethearts
decided to re-enact the performance in
her sittingroom, dressing-up for the occa-
sion. Jane’s parents were sleeping and
unaware of the fact that downstairs:
“Oh, R-r-r-romeo !” she sorter squawked,
her eyes turned wrong side out,
“My all-consumin’ love for you how kit
you ever doubt ?”
“I’ve nary doubt,” I said, an’ put one
arm her waist aroun’ ”...
For the balcony-scene they had fixed
three wooden chairs rather precariously,
so that Jane, while “leanin’ over fur
about the twenty-seventh kiss, She lost
her equiliberum in thinkin’ of her bliss!”
The “Poet Scout’s” version of “Romeo
and Juli-et” concludes with the girl’s
scandalised parents rushing in to investi-
gate the resultant crash (in the course of
the confusion Romeo’s fancy-dress
drawers fell down) and arranging for
the couple to “squar’ the thing up right”
by getting married the following week.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, November 25, 1953
, Yol 74—No. 3850
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247~249 Collins Street, Melbourne
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite GJ'.O.), Wellington
QUESTIONS FOR "LABOR"
If the Government parties can curb their branch
organisations and induce them not to give the usual
show of disunity on the eve of election campaigns,
the opportunity to fight the Gwydir Federal seat
should prove about the worst Christmas-box the
“Labor” party will get this year.
Even a by-election gives the leaders of the parties
a chance to ask each other pertinent questions.
Perhaps it would be unfair to ask Mr. Arthur Calwell,
“Labor” deputy-leader, the nature of the ties which
bound him so closely to the late John Wren that he
was moved to act as one of the pallbearers at his
funeral. And Dr, Evatt, probably because of profes-
sional modesty, has not chosen to reveal the exact
amount of the fee he received for pleading against
the validity of the Communist-party Dissolution Bill
in the High Court. But there are other questions
which are very much appropriate to the hustings.
The first, of course, is who is the leader of the
Federal “Labor” party? Is it Dr. Evatt, or is it Mr.
Calwell, who certainly does not seem to acknowledge
Dr. Evatt as leader? Or does it happen to be Mr.
Clyde Cameron, M.P., from South Australia, who
has suddenly taken it into his head to speak for the
party on the matter of socialisation of banking, which
Dr. Evatt says specifically is dead?
There is the question of why Mr. Calwell, as the
deputy-leader of a party which professes to embody
all the civic virtues, all the righteousness dealt out by
Providence to political parties in Australia, should
feel it necessary to head a campaign for “clean
ballots” among the unions to which Messrs. Cahill
and Landa at present are deeding power of life and
death over their members —and over those who don’t
want to be members and wouldn’t touch some unions
with a forty-foot pole. And there is also the problem
of why Dr. Evatt, a former High Court Judge and
Attorney-General, a Privy Counsellor and Queen’s
Counsel, does not show the slightest interest in the
moral atmosphere of the N. S. Wales A.L.P. Last
week alone one “Labor” mayor was convicted and
fined £7OO for accepting bribes; and a shoal of
charges, general and specific, were levelled against
the probity of aldermen in the City Council.
Surely it is of some concern to the Federal
“Labor” party that the State A.L.P. branch from
which its leader draws his endorsement and which
has an official representative in the Federal Parlia-
mentary Caucus is making no move to have the dread-
ful accusations which are flying round Sydney investi-
gated to the bone. There never have been Premiers
in N. S. Wales more resistant to inquiry into charges
of wrongdoing than Mr. Cahill and his predecessor,
and it has become an axiom that when his party pro-
tests against investigation the subsequent proceedings
are always revelationary.
The gentleman to whom Mr. Cahill became heir
—after having agreed to hand over a barefaced
spoils-to-the-victor job—resisted an inquiry into liquor
administration, and everybody knows the revelations
which were produced when his hand was forced.
Mr. Cahill was wildly indignant that the associations
of a stalwart Minister like Mr. Joe Arthur should be
attacked, and both he and the A.L.P. are apparently
less shocked than the public that a Minister should
have been proved to be the friend and business associ-
ate of one of the worst criminals in New South Wales
without finding out about him. He seems to feel no
disturbance of mind about the employment of another
cx-criminal by the department controlled by a sup-
posedly responsible Minister, responsible to Parliament
and the people, but who obviously, from the evidence
before the inquiry into the Vitnell contracts, knows
little about what goes on within his administration.
The electors of Australia are entitled to have an
answer as to whether Dr. Evatt, who spends half his
time inveighing against the supposed frauds on the
electors by the Menzies Government, has any interest
at all in these matters, and, if so, exactly how he is
demonstrating his alarm and indignation at the hap-
penings within the “Labor” party in his native State
during the past few months.
On “Labor’s” platform and programme there are
many items about which questions need to be asked.
In fact, one is whether there is a “Labor” platform,
or whether every principle set down in the present
document has been thrown over the cliff and a con-
dition of martial law proclaimed which allows the
leaders to advocate any expedient that occurs to them
so long as it helps them into office. There is a close
PILGRIM'S PROGRESS
coincidence between the present “Labor” method of
approach to public questions and the ebb-and-flow
tactics and changing line of the Communist party.
Now “Labor” is for socialisation, now it isn’t; now
it is all for “complete control of banking and credit
by the nation” and nationalisation of banks, and now
it says that the issue is defunct. It has a principle of
action laid down approving the “constitutional utilisa-
tion of Federal and State Parliaments, municipal and
other Government-created authorities” as weapons to
produce socialisation of industry, but some of its
principal members are involved in big business.
Its Federal platform says it proposes to abolish
the Senate, to introduce unification and to abolish
the Federal system and replace it with Canberra-
centralised government, but whenever any move for-
ward in the direction of these objectives is made the
party runs for its life after the first skirmish.
Its platform also calls for “steady and unwaver-
ing support for the United Nations and for the pur-
poses and principles declared in the United Nations
Charter,” and it specifically provides recognition of
the fact that all acts of Governments must be con-
sistent with “Imperial Treaty obligations.” Yet its
N. S. Wales State branch flouts a United Nations
Charter with its compulsory-union legislation, and
therefore flagrantly flouts a solemn treaty obligation.
Nobody seems to care. “Labor” no longer has
any public morals or ideals or principles. Its Federal
and State parties have become merely a gaggle of
confidence-men out to sell themselves to the electors
with any patter they can contrive or any tactics that
will serve. No British country has ever seen a party
with a worse political record than the one which
directs “Labor” affairs in Canberra and Sydney.
Self-Interest and Self-Reliance
Appeals for a more self-reliant attitude among
Australians have lately been made by men holding
the two highest offices in the Commonwealth, the
Governor-General and the Prime Minister. No one
seriously studying the contemporary Australian scene
will deny that the sturdy independence on which this
community once prided itself is no longer evident.
It may be still there, but if so then it is modestly
hiding its light under a bushel and allowing the multi-
tongued “Gimme Brigade” to grab the centre of the
stage.
Mr. Menzies spoke of the tendency to think of
the Government
as an artificial but benevolent sort of body quite
detached from ourselves, which can produce money
without effort and jobs without difficulty, and can
ease our paths through lives of complete security.
It is true that this tendency is regrettably preva-
lent ; it is a habit of mind that has been encouraged
by the Socialists and nourished by their war-time and
early-post-war years of power when coupons, permits,
forms, schedules, categories, queues and all the other
panoply of the regimented State were part and parcel
of our daily life. It is not surprising that a generation
of youngsters has grown up which, from regarding
this as more-or-less the normal pattern of society, has
come to look upon the Government as the all-powerful
giver of all good things. That is quite understand-
able, What is less excusable is the way in which the
doctrine has permeated sections of the community
which should know better, giving rise to the growth
of pressure-groups which find it pays them to have
Governments which are regarded —and which regard
themselves —in this light.
Prominent among them are trade-unions,
employers’ organisations and associations connected
with specific industries, both primary and secondary ;
the men on the land (woolgrowers excluded), once
considered the banner-bearers of sturdy indepen-
dence, are hardly less reluctant than are industrialists
to beg or demand Government assistance. Even
bodies whose basic motives are completely unselfish
have become afflicted with the virus and adopt the
same tactics as less disinterested groups in their
attempts to get a larger share of the Government
handouts —without "any apparent thought or concern
for the source of the “hand-ins.”
The “Gimme Brigade” finds plenty of examples
for its attitude within the Governments. No Govern-
ment in Australia, State or Federal, has hesitated to
dive into the public purse —with the complete agree-
ment of its Opposition—with the result that Parlia-
mentarians have received in salary-rises, expenses,
allowances, secretarial salaries and other etceteras a
greater “rise” than almost any other section of the
community.
Among Australia’s 700 politicians there are, no
doubt, many who are making financial sacrifices by
remaining in Parliament, but by far the greater
number are receiving more money as legislators than
they would ever earn in private life. This is patently
evident to the community, and must have its effect on
general standards.
On the Prime Minister’s point—“ Government
.... which can produce money without effort and jobs
without difficulty”—there is ample surface evidence
to justify the belief. The External Affairs Depart-
ment alone has created since the war hundreds of
jobs, all well paid and many ridiculously overpaid
when allowances, expenses and privileges are taken
into consideration. So much so that a cadetship in
the Diplomatic Service has become a favorite ambi-
tion of talented youngsters whose services would be
far more valuable to the nation if directed into more
productive channels.
Even in local-government, where in general the
spirit of service still lingers, the future, as far as New
South Wales is concerned, is not encouraging. The
Cahill “reforms” of the last few years—amalgamations
and compulsory voting—have taken the “local” out
of local-government and introduced party politics
into municipal affairs. The effect of this is now
apparent in Sydney, where an eleventh-hour change
in the voting-system and a private inquisition into the
finances of “Labor” candidates has been substituted
for the open inquiry into the whole activities of the
Sydney City Council demanded by the Opposition.
The latest changes seem to be leading towards pay-
ment of aldermen, long favored by “Labor” (“jobs
for the bhoys”). One official of “the pairty” has
actually advanced in favor of this the suggestion that
it would remove the temptation to resort to graft.
If this is not a cynical acceptance of the fact that
some of his colleagues are in municipal politics for
what they can get out of it, what is it?
What is most wanted in the community today is
the spirit of service. In time of war Australians have
not been lacking in willingness to serve their country,
but in peace-time the tendency is to adopt the attitude
of “What’s in it for me?” This is a soul-sick
philosophy which Australia at this point of its history
cannot afford to maintain.
Mr, Menzies is quite right in deploring this
frame of mind, but it will not be altered while the
seven Governments of Australia have the spending of
one-third of the national income.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Mr. Lamda's Millennium
Mr. Abie Landa’s introduction of the
Compulsory Unionism Bill in the N. S.
Wales Legislative Assembly had much in
common with similar efforts above Lenin’s
tomb in Moscow when some commissar
appears to announce that the free, unin-
hibited, democratic and peaceloving
people of Soviet Russia are about to
have benefits conferred on them, and
that they had better accept them —and
smile.
Mr. Landa was ecstatic about the pro-
visions of the Bill and the quantity of
true democracy that will flow from it.
And he dwelt, glowing with pride, on
the “privilege” which will be conferred
on non-unionists who are forced to join
unions which have for years fostered
the careers of great patriots like J. S.
Garden, the present “Labor” representa-
tion in the Sydney City Council and the
past representation in the Leichhardt
Council.
It is apparently only because non-
unionists are too shy to claim these privi-
leges and join up that Mr. Landa and his
party are “proud to give legislative ex-
pression” to the “views of its own rank-
and-file” —that is, the small bunch of dele-
gates from A.L.P. branches and unions,
some of them Communist-led, who gather
every year behind closed doors at the
A.L.P. conference to hear \siatever de-
bate the tight-lipped agenda committee
thinks is good for them.
To hear Mr. Landa talk was to feel
that a new aristocracy was being founded
by force and one scarcely-criticised item
in his programme suggests that this may,
in fact, be true. With naked gusto Mr,
Landa said that, with stronger member-
ship and increased finances, unions would
be able to establish “many social ser-
vices” such as “co-operative movements,
building societies, holiday camps and
educational groups.”
The opportunities for compulsion, and
especially for the imposition of levies on
the inmates of the N. S. Wales State
slave-camp which his legislation creates,
seem to be without limit.
Once the unionist is conscripted into
the Landa Army it will be compulsory for
him to obey the rules of the union and
pay its levies. And if the union decides
to force him to pay £lO a year to support
a holiday camp in which he wouldn’t be
seen dead or to finance a Marx school or
any of the Socialist enterprises which
the Minister has in contemplation, there
will be no get-out for him.
Presently, if history runs true to form,
the burden of these enterprises will grow
with expansion and the onset of bank-
ruptcy, and the compulsion to support
them will become tighter and firmer as
it dawns on the ruling aristocracy of the
unions that seats in the Sydney City
Council are only in the peanut class com-
pared with the advantages of belonging
to one of the free-spending soviets con-
trolling union big business in welfare.
Canberra's Enigma
Australia’s relationship to the British
Commonwealth and to outside countries
becomes every month more puzzling. On
broad questions of foreign policy there is
little to criticise, but where British Com-
monwealth co-operation is in issue it is
difficult to make head or tail of Can-
berra’s attitude.
Mr. Menzies last week, in an article in
the London “Times,” declared that “if
we are not careful some of our inter-
national commitments will impair our
[the British Commonwealth’s] unity of
action.” He wrote < that, by way of
example. Great Britain, “with the warm
approval of Australia and New Zealand,”
was a member of the Nato organisation
which “gave her both assets and liabilities
in the Atlantic, Western Europe and in
the Eastern Mediterranean and the
Middle East.”
He argued that Australia, New Zealand
and South Africa have a “vital interest,
which they have twice exhibited in arms,”
in the Middle East —even though they are
not members of Nato and apparently don’t
want to be. And he holds that, if we
are to develop our full strength, the voice
of our outlying nations must be heard
before Great Britain talks at Nato and
not only after some agreement has been
provisionally arrived at.
An easy way to be heard, of course,
would be to join the organisation and
contribute towards it on a reasonable
scale, as we already do indirectly in a
small way through the Navy and Air
Force and particularly through the
Rocket-Range project.
But Australia apparently subscribes to
the idea that what is good enough in
Europe is not good enough for the Pacific.
While the Australian Government should
have the right to help make European
policy, without sharing in the responsi-
bility of decisions, the United States must
be allowed to dictate that the United
Kingdom, whose defences are integral
with our own, shall not be allowed to
share in the secrets of Anzus, knowledge
of which is obviously a necessary pre-
requisite to the formulation of a British
Commonwealth defence policy.
Even Mr. Menzies’s lucid mind would
have difficulty in rationalising these con-
tradictions.
The Real Evil
It will not be enough if the current
scandals in Sydney city and suburban
councils end in prosecutions, penalties
and the throwing-out of sundry aldermen
and officials. So long as aldermen and
councillors are permitted to stand for
local-government elections as party candi-
dates —no matter what the party —so long
will local-government be defiled. The only
way to get clean local-government is to
eliminate party politics.
Councils are not legislative bodies.
They are administrators. Their job is
purely to administer Acts passed by the
Parliament for the common good of all.
Parliament delegates to councils certain
powers to guard public health, maintain
roads and streets and public reserves,
provide certain facilities and amenities,
supervise buildings, protect public pro-
perty and so forth. No council can be
an instrument of party policy and do its
job properly and honestly.
By legislation permitting the grouping
of 1.-g. candidates on ballot-papers, by
compulsory voting, by forced amalgama-
tions of 1.-g. areas, and now by preferen-
tial voting and proportional-representa-
tion in 1.-g. elections, the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment has sought to have men of its
own political color elected to councils.
When it heard about the latest move
the Liberal party talked about fighting
it by supporting Liberal candidates in 1.-g.
elections. But local-government doesn’t
want Liberal-party men any more than
it wants Labor-party men. There is no
place for any political party in real
local-government.
Introducing the preferential and p.-r.
system Premier Cahill talked largely about
“giving the minority a voice in local-
government.” What minority? Adult
franchise and compulsory voting gives
every citizen a voice in 1,-g. Every citizen
shares in the benefits and improvements,
the facilities and amenities provided by
a council, though every citizen doesn’t
share in the cost. Only the ratepayers do
that. They are a minority in most cases,
but the Premier wasn’t thinking of them.
So something more than inquiries and
prosecutions are needed to clean up local-
government. If the people are still cap-
able of clear thinking they must see that,
they must wake up to the long-established
fact that partyism and decent local-
government can’t exist together.
Every political party has its hangers-
on, some more than others. This dingy
fringe has become pretty prominent in
local-government and its power lies not
in the party members of the councils, but
in the secret places where the party caucus
meets and issues its orders to party mem-
bers, whether of councils or Parliaments.
The record of party politics in local-
government is, generally, a bad record.
It is bound to be bad for the very simple
reason that community work must be
disinterested to succeed, and there can
be no disinterest when a man is bound
to a party.
A U.S. Warning
The revelations which are being made
about Communist penetration of the
United States Government become worse
as the days go by, and the evidence of
Mr. J. Edgar Hoover, head of the F. 8.1.,
should not do the heirs of the Roosevelt
administration much good with the
electorates next year.
Mr. Hoover gave evidence that, on
instruction from President Truman, in
1945-46 he had kept watch on Harry
Dexter White, then assistant-secretary to
the U.S. Treasury, until Mr. Truman
hampered his efforts by promoting White
to a position “outside F. 8.1. jurisdiction”
—to the job of United States representa-
tive on the International Monetary
Fund, He said that White was elevated
to this important post although those
who appointed him knew that he was a
Communist spy.
The fact that Mr. Truman’s denial
of the charges in respect of White which
were levelled at him before the Senate
Judiciary sub-committee was made over
the biggest television hook-up in Ameri-
can history advertised the importance
attached to the matter in the U.S.
Mr. Truman’s explanation was that he
thought it better, after taking the advice
of his Attorney-General and others, to
promote the spy so that other spies
should not become aware that there was
an investigation in progress.
Mr. Hoover swore that he wrote to
the President in November, 1945—he
produced a copy of the letter —saying
that the F. 8.1. had information from a
highly influential source indicating that
a number of highly-placed officials were
giving information to outsiders who were
in turn transmitting this information to
Soviet Union agents. He named, apart
from White, Lachlan Currie, administra-
tive assistant to the President himself,
and he mentioned a case in which White
had passed over a secret document to
Communist channels.
But in spite of all this the appoint-
ment and others were proceeded with.
There is irresistible evidence both in
knowledge of the associations with sub-
versive rings and foreign agencies and in
the trends of foreign policy in 1945 that
the U.S. State Department and the
Attorney-General’s Department then
were very nearly under Communist or
fellow-traveller control, and definite
proof that even White House was Red-
anted.
It is a warning to Australia of what
could happen here; in fact of what did
very nearly happen here in 1943-44 under
the easy rule of Dr. Evatt, Mr. E. J. Ward
and their colleague Mr. Holloway.
Unsavory Sex
From London: Not many years ago, dis-
cussions upon the natural functions were
restricted to the surgery and the smutty
story. It was not a topic for polite con-
versation, or, still less, for newspaper
comment.
Prudishness has gone; squeamishness
remains. But what of that fetid, sur-
reptitious hinterland of human desire
which appals the normal person and
frightens the public conscience? Are we,
as a civilisation, decadent or lacking in
understanding? Should we punish homo-
sexuality with greater severity or should
we recognise it as a social malaise that
calls for constructive pity rather than
outraged condemnation?
These questions are, at present, being
asked and answered with earnestness in
responsible quarters. And it is a measure
of the urgency of this problem that the
more serious journals whose circulations
owe nothing at all to the purveyance of
sex have given much space to dispassion-
ate comment.
The reason for this sudden preoccupa-
tion is not far to seek. An M.P. was
convicted for importuning males, and, not
long after, a famous actor was fined for
the same offence. Both were “not them-
selves” in that they had been drinking.
The M.P. felt that he was obliged to
resign, the actor that he must continue
with his work—a significant observation
upon the anomalies of public life.
Meanwhile, all points of view pour into
the newspaper offices. And satisfactory
answers have yet to be given to at least
two compelling questions. Is not a prison
sentence the worst possible thing for a
homosexual? And why does the law
close its eyes to perversion among women
but not among men?
It is hard to imagine a more embarrass-
ing or unsavory subject for public con-
sideration, but the calls for a royal com-
mission are becoming more and more in-
sistent. Menace or sickness, the problem
will have to be faced.
Union Funds and Politics
“In the ACT”: Both sides of Federal
politics are too apt to explain inaction
by proclaiming the deficiencies of power
under the Constitution, but in the
current wrangle on compulsory unionism
the Canberra Government seems to have
neglected a chance for an effective move
under the wide and existing conciliation
and arbitration power. There have been
only tentative suggestions from the back
benches that a Federal law could make
public auditing of union funds compul-
sory and at the same time prevent the use
of union funds for political purposes—
although the word “political” might take
some defining.
Ministers surely are not unaware of
these proposals, or of the hint that the
Arbitration Court should be invited to
make its awards cover all persons in
industry, whether union members or not,
as a counter to some of the blurb coming
from Government benches in Sydney. So
far there hasn’t been any public reac-
tion by Menzies and Co. to the new deal
for “Labor.”
The only sign of awareness in Can-
berra has been a little needling of Doc.
Evatt by some of the Liberal back-
benchers. Most of the swinging-seat boys
in N.S.W. know that extra funds out of
union subs, in their electorates must make
things harder next year, and they want to
see the fight carried to the enemy. A
lot will be said at Gwydir, of course, but
that will be after the final working ses-
sion for the present Federal Parliament
has ended.
There is no reason why the session
should not go a week, if necessary,
beyond the target date of December
4 to allow the passing of a Federal mea-
sure on the unions’ extorted cash.
No Folklore Yet
“C.S.”; It is patently absurd to talk, as
some people do, of Australian (as distinct
from aboriginal) folklore. A nation less
than 200 years old isn’t far enough away
from its beginning to have an antiquity
and you can’t have a folklore without
one.
Norse saga, Greek myth, Roman
legend, Irish banshee, Jewish genesis,
Maori Maui, Arunta dreamtime and the
rest of them all reach back into a past
so far away that the times of their
origins, so far as human history is con-
cerned, can only be guessed at.
Folklore is the product of peoples
either settled in their racial homelands
for thousands of years or who, as the
Jews, preserved their homogeneity
wherever they ventured or were driven.
In their brief time here Australians have
so far preserved their homogeneity as a
British people, and their folklore at
present is British folklore.
Australians have developed certain
characteristics, mainly of speech and
bearing, which mark them as Australians,
but it is doubtful if this development
will go much further, since they are
rapidly becoming an urban population.
Modern urban populations are unlikely
to create a folklore because science,
ease and speed of transport and com-
munication, the printed word and
modern education combine against it.
It is possible that frequent and heavy
influxes of non-British immigrants may
do for us what it did for the United
States, but at present we look like con-
tinuing to be a British race for a long
time.
Admittedly there are some faint signs
of an Australian folklore, but it will be
at least another 200 years before any-
body will be able to say that we really
have some. When that time comes, and
having regard to the folklore of other
peoples, our folklore will be a mixture
of history and legend.
On that theory, Australians of
a.d. 2153 will very likely carry in their
minds tales of Cook, Dampier, Torres and
company, the First Fleet, Leichhardt the
Lost, Fisher’s and the Guyra ghosts,
The Man from Snowy River, the Tan-
tanoola Tiger, perhaps Ned Kelly and
Ben Hall, We of the Never Never, the
Monte Bello atom-bomb, and the
mysterious Black Stump. It is almost
certain that great tales will be told of the
Anzacs, the captivity of the Eighth
Division, Kingsford Smith, William
Morris Hughes and the Kokoda Trail.
And, of course, of Phar Lap.
Even if The Bulletin of that time
is printed in the Martian language and
distributed by flying-saucer it will be
hard for the editors to keep references
to that little lot out of its pages. But
it’s too soon to say whether or not they’ll
become folklore. The most promising
candidates seem to be Paterson’s hero
and Phar Lap,
Chooks In the Parlor
Responding possibly to the political
atmosphere in Macquarie-street and at
the Town Hall, Sydney’s weather-
suppliers last week turned on the highest
November temperatures since 1946, send-
ing people in droves to the beaches,
hotels or milk-bars according to indi-
vidual taste and opportunity. On Tues-
day, with the mercury hovering just
above the century, the Weather Bureau
forecast a cool change from the south-
west accompanied by “isolated tornadic
squalls” ; there was also mention of a
“southerly buster” from, not unnaturally,
the south.
When the two evening papers came
on the streets the weather shared the front
page with the City Council graft charges
on both sheets. The “Sun” headed the
item “Hottest Day For Two Years,” but
the “Mirror” gave it a three-column head
“Tornado Warning Issued to Ships and
{Continued on next page )


Planes.” It also included the tornado
warning on its poster, possibly for the
convenience of any ships and planes
which had missed it.
' What precautions were taken by com-
manders of ships and aircraft is not
recorded, but a considerable number of
tornado-minded landlubbers reacted with
commendable speed. There was the
woman who brought all her fowls into
the lounge, listed in N.E.S. days as the
safest room in the house. There was the
one who insisted on the whole family
having dinner down the cellar because
she’d seen something similar done in
“The Wizard of Oz.” There was the
man who rang up his wife from New-
castle and insisted that she bring all their
outdoor furniture into, the house and then
hie herself and the baby to the nearest
railway-subway to await the crisis. There
were the lifesavers who shooed the
surfers out of the surf. There was...
well, there were lots of them.
Meanwhile newspaper-offices, radio-
stations and, above all, the Weather
Bureau were being overwhelmed with
phone-calls from less self-reliant people,
anxious to know the proper precautions
to take against a tornado. The weather-
men did their best to spread the informa-
tion that a tornadic squall was not a
tornado, that no tornado was expected
and that Sydney was not subject to
tornadoes; but despite all their pro-
testations a good many people still pre-
ferred to believe the worst and sat up all
night in fearful anticipation.
The tornado still hadn’t arrived next
morning; in fact, even the relatively-
pleasant southerly buster was still
missing. After a day or so precautions
were relaxed in most of the alarm areas,
though it is possible that those fowls
are still in the lounge-room as a clucking
testimony to the power of the Press when
coupled with the power of the imagina-
tion.
POLITICAL POINTS
Anti-Liberty Party.
Federal House of Reps, will probably
close on December 3 without hearing the
truth about the Communist funds, sup-
posedly donated to the “Labor” party,
or seeing the papers relating to the last
double-dissolution which E. J, Ward is
eager to debate. The Senate proposes
to hang on for . another week to clear
up its arduous business before rushing off
to hire grey toppers for the Queen’s
visit.
• •
Sydney papers now have a standing
poster, good for almost any day of the
week: “Cahill Refuses Inquiry.”
• •
Unemployment figures are still falling:
the number of persons on relief at the
end of October was down for the tenth
successive month. Drop for the month
was 4603 and the number still receiving
payments 13,925, compared with 33,589
at January 1.
• •
In London the National Health Service
is issuing “smog” masks as a protection
against the smoke- and dirt-laden fog
that hangs over the city. If the example
is followed here it will probably be first
tested out in the area under the control
of the Sydney City Council,
• •
“Give them the works, Abie!” This
is not a quotation from Bant Singer’s next
thriller ; just friendly encouragement from
a “Labor” M.L.A. to the Minister for
Labor and Industry as he rose to intro-
duce the Compulsory
Unionism bill in The N. S.
Wales Assembly. If the
choice of gangster lingo
was not elegant, it was at
least appropriate.
.• e
Tatt.’s agents are shop-
ping around for office-
spa c e in Melbourne.
There’s a report that the
Legacy Club has sold its
Swanston - street building
and that it will be the
headquarters of the Big
Sweep.
• •
Lang’s Labor party is
running a team of four
for the Sydney City Coun-
cil elections. The Big
Fella’s reasons why “decent Labor
people” cannot vote for any of the pre-
sent Labor aldermen are that they failed
to stand up for the right to clear them-
selves in the open ; they condoned the
establishment of a secret tribunal; the
Cahill Government’s switch to propor-
tional-representation has opened the door
for Communists on the City Council.
• •
On the typescript Press-release of the
Lang party’s policy, the slogan “Vote
for the Cleanskins” has been written in
beneath a crossed-out slogan “Get Rid
of the Greeks.” At least, the last word
looks like Greeks, but it could be Creeks
or Grooks. There are no Greeks on the
Sydney City Council.
• e
A week after wheatgrowers were told
they wouldn’t get £9 million refunded
to them from the No. 15 pool stabilisation
reserve fund they were told they’d get
£ll million from the No. 14 pool ditto.
They couldn’t have the £9 million because
it was wanted as a safeguard against
future poor seasons and low prices. Total
stabilisation fund was £2O million, made
up of the two amounts stated, and since
no export-tax is to be collected from No.
16 pool, the total stabilisation fund is now
down to £9 million. This, according to
P.M.G, Anthony, deputising for Com-
merce Minister McEwen, is to be kept
as a nucleus of a “stabilisation fund in
the possible event of a further wheat-
stabilisation plan developing.” S. Car-
berry of the N.S.W. Graziers’ Association
(wheat section) is agin it. He says wheat
prices should be decontrolled and “thus
place squareiy on the industry a clear
obligation to look after itself in bad times
as well as good.” That’s what the wool
industry does, and it’s sitting on top of
the world.
• •
H. S. Norington, secretary of N.S.W.
Teachers’ Federation, claiming that the
“question of compulsory unionism did not
arise in the teaching profession,” said
the Federation had asked Premier Cahill
to prevent non-Federation teachers from
getting pay rises and so forth. Newcastle
branch of the Federation decided that
compulsory unionism by any other name
was just as sour, condemned Norington
and “declared itself against compulsory
unionism by a big majority.” This seemed
to leave Norington nothing to say, and
he said it.
• •
Publishers of The Man Who Wouldn’t
Talk are offering purchasers their money
back, it having been discovered that the
book, which was presented as a factual
record, is sheer fiction. Now it’s up to
J. J. Cahill, author of My Policy Speech,
to make a similar offer.
• •
From Eric D. Butler, director. League
of Rights, Melbourne:
In your leader of October 28 you say
that Kim Beazley, M.H.R., “guarded by
uniformed police, went much further than
COUNCIL
K ‘-7Ttf5«W I IT" -Vl
THE INSANITARY-CART
Mr. Casey in a speech calling for recognition
of Mao’s regime.” As one of those who helped
organise the meeting at which Mr. Beazley
spoke, and who was also present, I can assure
you that Mr. Beazley was not guarded by
uniformed police. Neither did he call for
recognition of Red China. The whole purport
of his address was to support a motion, carried
almost unanimously, urging the Federal Gov-
ernment not to recognise Red China.
• •
Just plain Tom Dougherty before the
Bench on a speeding charge would have
to pay a fine. Tom Dougherty, general
secretary of the A.W.U., is a horse of
another color. That’s what a Glen Innes
(N.S.W.) policeman discovered when he
sought to have the union boss dealt with
for speeding. Influence, said the police-
man, caused the dropping of the charge.
Whose influence?
• •
Evatt minor was not in sight when
Cahill’s Dog-Collar bill was introduced
in the N. S. Wales Assembly.
• •
Bate (Lib.) and Anthony (C.P.) are
both bitterly opposed to compulsory
unionism. But from their remarks in the
Canberra Parliament last Thursday they’d
both support moves to compel people to
stop making, buying, selling or eating
margarine, no matter how much people
want it. They would find it just .as hard
to justify a law to compel people to eat
butter as it is to justify a law to Compel
people to join unions. Either you believe
in freedom of choice or you don’t. No-
body can have it both ways.
Fraser, describing the Federal
Health Scheme as “paltry and pitiful/’
said that a “Labor” Government, “at an
appropriate time, would present to the
people its own comprehensive health
plan.” His colleague McKenna peddled
a health scheme for years when “Labor”
was last in power, but apparently the
time wasn’t appropriate,
• •
There are probably plenty of sound
arguments for replacing Sydney trams
by buses, but saving in capital cost, as
claimed by Transport Minister Wetherell,
isn’t one of them. The Minister quoted
the prices as £12,000 for a tram and £7OOO
for a bus, but didn’t attempt to relate
them to the lifetime of the two vehicles.
Judging by some of the antiques still
doing duty in Sydney one tram would
outlive four generations of buses.
• •
Refusing, for the somethingth time, an
inquiry into allegations of graft in the
Sydney City Council, Cahill said that it
was deplorable that an attempt should
be made to impugn the characters of
aldermen on the unsupported evidence of
a man who “received 12 months’ jail for
receiving and had been convicted on
more than 40 occasions.” He gave no
details of the receiving charge or the
nature of the other convictions.
N. S. Cohen, the man concerned, says
the jail sentence was imposed 31 years
ago at a time when he was under treat-
ment for shellshock and neurasthenia as a
result of war-service; “I bought a car —
didn’t know it was stolen then.” A
second offence, in 1937, was a technical
one. The manager of a bookshop which
he owned had sold an indecent publi-
cation —a nudist book. Cohen, as owner,
was fined. All the other “crimes” in his
record were traffic offences.
It appears that when Cohen has com-
mitted a traffic breach he has been
“copped.” He should change his name to
Dougherty.
• •
Victorian Symphony Orchestra arranged
to play without fees for a recording of
a new concerto by its conductor Juan
Jose Castro, half the profits from the
sale of the records to go to its benevolent
fund. Down swooped the Federal body
of the Musicians’ Union and forbade the
arrangement. Result: Still no fees.
Likewise no recordings and no profits.
• •
In a Sydney court a wharfie failed in
a claim for £lO,OOO damages against a
stevedoring company. He said he’d been
hurt at work, but though he'd recovered
physically had ever since suffered from
“inertia.” All he wanted to do was “lie
around the house all day.” The judge
called it laziness, but in the light of
“Labor” legislation and union policy it
could have been pure logic—both en-
courage workers to believe that they’re
entitled to be paid for not working.
• %
“Conscience-money” will have a new
meaning in N. S. Wales when Compulsory
Unionism becomes law. It will be money
paid to Consolidated Revenue by persons
with conscientious objections to joining
a uniona compulsory payment equal to
the annual union subscription.
Treatt’s comment on this is that “a
man must pay for having a conscience
in the Cahill State.” That’s right, but the
way things are going in the Cahill State
there’ll soon be no one left there with a
conscience.
• •
Some members of Cain’s “Labor” party
spent six hours of the debate on Cain’s
Liquor Reform Bill trying to get Cain
to extend hotel-closing hours from 6 p.m.
to 10 p.m. Cain refused to budge, but
the delay caused deferment of the bill.
Meantime, Melbourne has been assured
by publicans and brewers that there’ll be
plenty of bottled beer for Christmas.
Sydney, in the throes of a bottled-beer
“drought” already and with no hope of
a break before Christmas, is asking its
Premier for an inquiry. But Premier
Cahill can give Molotov points in saying
“No!”
• •
A correspondent of Adelaide “Adver-
tiser” points out that Clyde Cameron’s
comment that “the people who have power
over finance have the power to determine
the life of every citizen” is an extract
from Hitler’s Mein Kampf. It’s not sur-
prising. The Socialists, who delight in
labelling their political opponents
“Fascists” and “Nazis,” conveniently for-
get that both systems had Socialist origins.
Mussolini started off as a rabid Socialist
and Hitler’s party was the National
Socialist party.
• •
Victoria faces, for the fourth or fifth
year in succession, its “worse bushfire
prospect in the State’s history,” a par-
ticularly lush season having pushed up
the grass which a sensible community
would have cut and stored for drought
time instead of allowing to dry and be-
come a menace. There is some consola-
tion in the fact that the Country Fire
Authority has just registered its 1001st
brigade and the number of volunteer fire-
fighters has reached 84,038 —a record.
• •
“C.Q.”: So they’re talking in Indian-
apolis of banning Robin Hood from
schools because it follows the Communist
line in stressing the point that the man in
Lincoln green robbed the rich to help
the poor. What about Ned Kelly, who.
I’ve heard tell, only robbed banks to pay
off depositors’ overdrafts? Our local
Comrades must be asleep if they haven’t
discovered that Karl Marx was the guiding
star of Australia’s national hero.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
a holiday jaunt with his wife and
kiddies, my friend dropped in
on his brother-in-law, who runs a coun-
try pub. They arrived just as the even-
ing rush set in. Back home after the
holiday, he tuned-in to a broadcast of
Parliament. His six-year-old daughter
listened a while to the coughing, shuffling
of feet, confusion of voices and unidenti-
fiable animal-like noises which came from
the radio, then she looked at her father
with a smile of triumph, “I know what
that is,” she said. “It’s Uncle Wally’s
bar.”— “Mae Tron.”
♦> ❖ ❖
“Mem”: Scene: a country picture-
theatre, with the audience settling down
prior to the beginning of the show. The
half-hour’s blast of recorded music coming
at top pitch through the amplifier was
concluded by the stirringly discordant
strains of a hitherto unheard yet some-
how familiar air. The mystery was solved
as the hall was plunged in darkness and
the Queen appeared, still smiling with
unruffled dignity though standing on her
head. The few feet of film which com-
prise the anthem had apparently gone
through the projector in reverse.
“I cant bear pretty-pretty art."
“Jasby”: Maybe it’s quite all right and
the police and other appropriate authori-
ties have looked into it, but it still leaves
me with some misgivings—the Sydney
pet-shop that proclaims upon its windows
“Birds, Puppies, Babies.”
❖ ❖
“Curtain Raiser”; I see that Lord
Mayor Solly, of Melbourne, has received
a top-hat, the gift of an elderly English
lady who sent it in gratitude for what
his country did for her during the dark
war days and in case Mr. Solly can’t buy
one in Australia for the Royal visit. His
Ludship accepted it with gallantry, and
will presumably wear it if it fits. I can’t
help wondering, though, whether the old
lady shares the belief of an English-
woman I once met in Singapore who
thought all Australians were aborigines
and went about in loincloths with the
addition, in the case of King Billy, of a
topper. An Englishman who visited
Flemington on Cup Day was reported to
be astounded at the prevalence of
enamelled headgear—he had never
imagined there were so many top-hats in
the world, let alone in Australia.
❖ ❖ *l*
“D.A.”: Last year in Sydney I felt
that buying watermelons along metropoli-
tan highways at 4d. a pound —ss. to 10s.
a melon—was paying a lot for water. This
year it’s different. At 9d. and lOd. a
pound (up to £1 a melon) it’s mainly for
air-freight. These early melons are being
flown in from Queensland, and sell at
6d. a pound in the markets. Just fancy it,
you grown-up kids —melons by air!
+♦+ ♦>
“Yakipan”: Anti-British demonstra-
tions —known to the British residents as
ABDs —were common in pre-war Japan.
I recall two in particular—one in Kobe,
the other in Tokyo. The Kobe show was
to take place outside the British Con-
sulate-General, a fine new building. The
organisers of this “spontaneous expres-
sion of the people’s will” were a little
careless ; they demonstrated in error at
the wrong end of the block, outside the
Chartered Bank building. Proceedings
were watched with interest by the British
Consul-General and his staff from their
end of the block. However, as the par-
ticipants received their usual pay of a
box-lunch and 50 sen, I don’t suppose
they worried very much. The Tokyo
organisers were most co-operative. Hav-
ing decided on the demonstration, they
thoughtfully telephoned the Embassy to
inquire which day would be most suit-
able. Naturally the reply was Sunday,
when most, if not all, of the staff would
be absent. So on Sunday it was held.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Harry the Baker”: I regret that Gavin
Casey in his “Go West, Old Fellow” (B.
30/9/’53) did not hand a bouquet to
Perth’s Civic Fathers, who think of their
citizens’ every need, even to the extent
of providing the means of opening bottles
of beer in the most unexpected places.
I refer to the several underground “con-
veniences” situate within the city proper,
two of which are, alas, now no more,
repeated attacks on them by motorists
having dictated their removal. Attached
to the doors within these premises were
iron bars with an inscription “OPEN
BOTTLES HERE.”
<£♦ ❖
“Macann”: Cobbering-up with me
from the top of the side-fence, the very
well-spoken and obviously intelligent
New Australian nipper pointed out a
neighboring house. “That place over
there,” he said, “it’s haunted!” He
“These are all your food-invoices."
amended that, bringing his ghostly in-
formation more up to date: “I meant it
was haunted, but it’s all been rebuilt.
It’s not haunted now.” His final com-
ment could have represented his feeling
about Australia in general, or about this
particular pleasant comer of it, com-
pared with the old-boneyard world he
came from; “You wouldn’t think,” he
said, “there’d be any of them here, would
you?”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jolimont”; Went to a hairdresser’s
near a block of Government offices.
Door shut; knocked on it; hairdresser
unlocked door, scissors in hand. To my
inquiry—“ Any haircuts left?” he pointed
to notice on the door, stating no haircuts
or shaves between the hours of 8.45 a.m.
and 2 p.m., except by appointment. He
added, “Try your luck after two o’clock.”
I noticed three chaps sitting waiting for
barber’s attention and another in the
chair. These customers were the lads
from the Government departments who
had no leisure after office hours to attend
to their locks and beards.
“C.Q.”: Wonder whether it was some-
thing in his unconscious that made Dr.
Cunningham Dax, chairman of the Mental
Hygiene Authority, give a dissertation on
doodling when opening a show of modern
sculpture the other day in Melbourne.
Most of the sculpture looked so like the
illustrations of the work of Dr. Dax’s
patients in his recent book, Psychiatry
and Art, that they might have been pro-
jections of them. After doing the rounds
of the exhibition I found that I had un-
consciously done a doodle on my cata-
logue which, if it had been executed in
string or wire (the favorite material of
the sculptors), would have qualified for
first prize if submitted to the exhibition.
❖ ❖
“Contact”: I’ll warrant “B. A. Ker”
(B. 30/9/’53) is a Melbournite. I spent
18 years in N. S. Wales and never heard
the terms “Our ’arbor” or “Our bridge”
until I visited the city by the Yarra. And
then it was always introduced into the
conversation by a non-Sydneyite.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Findy”: Sydney doesn’t encourage
Sunday sport for profit and it is illegal
to charge admission to ovals and sports-
grounds on the Sabbath, though there is
nothing to prevent a silver-coin collec-
tion, provided the money is a gift and
not an admission-fee. But, of course,
the collection-box offers opportunity for
fraud, or suspicion of fraud, and it would
never do to have the public’s spirit of
charity imposed upon. That’s why the
oval at the end of my street has a man
issuing tickets at the gate on Sundays
and a notice outside “Donation: Adults,
Is. 6d., Children 9d.”
♦> * *
“Sebak”: In his Lighter Side of School
Life, lan Hay, giving the differing methods
used by teachers to maintain discipline,
describes how the sarcastic teacher
lacerates a boy by simply ordering him
to stand up, then demanding “What’s
your name?” there being nothing quite
so embarrassing as havmg to say your
name aloud in company—especially when
tlie asker already knows your name very
well. I submit a parallel embarrassment:
when a small child pipingly asks your
name as you pass his gate. You can’t
ignore him, for he’ll keep it up; but
what an ass you’d feel if you told him!
It was sheer embarrassment that prompted
me to answer a child; “Oh, er —Willy
Wagtail.” Now I know an even more
embarrassing situation —every evening the
toddler naively salutes me with, “Hullo,
Willy.”
“Spokeshave”; The foreman on a con-
struction job at Yallourn (Vic.) was
watching a Latvian rigger climbing an
electric-power pole. Suddenly he realised
that the Lett was at the top of the pole
and had no belt. “Y* gotta have a
belt,” yelled the foreman. “Donwanone,”
shouted the New Australian. “Y’ gotta
have one,” yelled the foreman. “It’s in
the regulations and I’ll get the sack if
you fall down.” “Donwanone,” muttered
the N.A. The foreman started hunting
round for a belt. When he looked again
the N.A. was at the top of the next pole.
“How the hell did you get there?” he
shouted. “I vos a tightrope valker vunce
in a circus,” grinned the Lett.
❖ ❖
“Q. Ree” (Fiji): After four mango-
less years in Tasmania, my mouth watered
in anticipation when I saw the three big,
heavily-laden trees in the grounds of my
new home. What visions of bucketfuls
of big, juicy mangoes! I hadn’t bar-
gained on the Fijians’ love of green
mangoes (skin and all), and their strong
ideas of community possession. I have
to buy mine from the Indian hawker.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Fat”: Said the stout, voluble, middle-
aged female seated in front of me in
the bus to her younger companion: “Oh,
no, not nylon, dearie. I wouldn’t let my
Bill touch the stuff. Ruination to women,
that’s what these nylon things for men
are. Last Christmas my sister Maud got
a whole nylon outfit for her hubby-"
shirt, socks, underwear, the whole works.
And he washes ’em out himself, every
night, like she tells him and they don’t
need no ironing and then six months
later he’s hopped it. See? Says he doesn’t
need her any more, can manage for him-
self, and he’d rather be single again.
Nylon!” she brooded darkly over the
offending word. “No good to men
dearie. You invest in stockings for your-
self and get your man the good old-
fashioned woollies.”
A PERCENT. OF THE TAKE
Said the Capitalistic Octopus,
“My day is past and gone,
But ,when historians make a fuss
About things they say I’ve done,
Remember, my friend, when they speak of
me
And my power to sack and engage,
That I didn’t force you to pay a fee
Before you could earn a wage.
‘7 used to be called dogmatic.
I liked to see men compete.
But I always was democratic
And respected the man-in-the-street;
I wasn’t a Parliamentarian
Of the Fascist-Nazi kind
Taking your cash to finance a plan
Of campaign against your mind.
‘7 was never an angel, or Boy Scout,
As you will understand.
But whenever my villainies found me out
I obeyed the law of the land;
And it never occurred to me to exact,
Not even with my long feelers,
Your hard-earned money by Government
Act,
And give .it to party-heelers.
“Ah, well, you’ve a Socialist Octopus now
With its confidence-men and its tribes
Of family-trees that grow and grow
And aldermen taking bribes.
And the proud Dictator of this Domain
On Sydney’s Harbor foreshores
Extending his hand for his Sovereign
While his backroom boys take yours.”
N.s.w,
SWILLIAM.


T'HE night nurse, weary from the over-
-1 work in her long hours on the job,
had not long lain down for a catnap
when she heard the thump of a patient
falling out of bed. Hastily and silently
she glided from bed to bed, only to find
all safely asleep bar one patient who had
heard the fall, but thought it occurred in
the ward upstairs. A search in the ward
above found all serene. The nurse’s
scare ended, she became aware of a pain
on her shoulder and hip; her mirror
revealed a bruised temple and a fast-
blackening eye. She had been right.
Someone had fallen out of bed.—
“Shadow-chaser.”
♦>
“Becks”: It has often been said that
the insults of one generation are the
compliments of the next (or vice versa).
Latest example of this comes from the
London “Economist,” which recently
headed an article “Atom-minded Aus-
tralia.” Only a few years ago that would
“He must he dangerous ."
have implied something like “pin-headed”
and would have called for threats of
secession from the Empire, Nowadays
it’s taken as a compliment to our up-to-
dateness.
“Cauboy”: Anthony Quayle has had
a few things to say about his Australian
tour. “After our red-hot season in
Sydney we were dumbfounded at the
stodginess of Melbourne audiences,” is
on© of them. The obvious retort is.
perhaps it was we who were dumb-
founded and the Quayles who were
stodgy. I liked Mr. Quayle’s production
and the way it made Shakspeare live. I
liked the way his team worked together
and I thought some of his actors were
better in their parts than he was in his.
I didn’t like his Falstaff much —I think
he misunderstood the character of the
fat knight—and his Othello did not trans-
port me out of myself; I thought Frank
“ That's right — Mrs. Cork—I never forget a hat.”
Thring’s at the Arrow Theatre had much
more feeling. That may be just local
patriotism, but that’s how I felt. So I
must have seemed stodgy to Mr. Quayle
if he happened to observe me looking
at him when he was wringing the neck
of Desdemona and feeling less emotion
than if I had been watching the strangling
of a Christmas chicken. I don’t exclude
the possibility that I was too stodgy to
appreciate the finer qualities of Mr,
Quayle’s performance, but neither do I
exclude the possibility that, while Mr.
Quayle could believe in Othello, he
couldn’t altogether feel him —and that’s
what stodginess is m an actor. I didn’t
feel that about Olivier’s Richard 111.
❖ ♦ *
“Driftsand”: In Adelaide “A”-grade
cricket the Senior Colts team is com-
prised of promising juniors from various
districts; they are looked upon as likely
Sheffield-Shield men of the future. Selec-
tors of the Colts may have been called
cradle-snatchers, but it was going a
bit too far when the “Advertiser” listed
the chosen eleven that week under a
heading “Cots Cricket Team.”
**♦ ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: Here’s one Victorian who won’t
be moved by the transfer of Tatt.’s to
Melbourne. I learnt my lesson 20 years
ago, when, on a visit to Brisbane, I had
beginner’s luck at the races and came
out £l5 to the good. On the way back
to my hotel I decided to risk the lot on
shilling tickets (one-fifth share) in the
Golden Casket. Spreading the money
over half a dozen or so “lucky” lottery
shops, I finished up with 300 tickets, all
different numbers, and hoped for the
best. Result? Not within cooee of even
a fiver. Apropos of one’s chance of
landing the big prize—how many “in-
vestors” realise that on making one
day’s visit to a city the size of Melbourne,
they have about 16 chances of being
skittled in the traffic to one chance of
winning the lottery? Pleasant thought!
“Narumee”: Trams are on the way out
in Sydney, but Melbourne’s transport
authorities profess to be more in love
with them than ever. This confusion
obviously affected the Melbourne A.B.C.
announcer who told listeners “The cost
of bringing trams to the Melbourne
Olympics is causing worry—l beg your
pardon—the cost of bringing teams to
the Melbourie Olympics is causing worry
overseas!”
$ + *
“Tegula”: Discarded roofing-slates
(B. 28/10/’53) do have a value —Is. to
2s. in a dealer’s-yard; quantities less.
Almost certainly the ones “Becks” saw
would be Welsh 20in. by 10in., original
cost 3d., and the majority would still be
in excellent condition after 50
years’ service, but, following
usual procedure, they would be
ripped off instead of stripped
carefully. Some thousands of
old slates were used, this year
on Parliament House, and quite
a few thousand were imported
from Wales for Gladesville
(N.S.W.) Hospital, at over 2s.
each. There are still a few expert
slaters left; I’m one myself.
❖ ❖ *
“Mullum”: You can still find
an occasional young G.P. who
subscribes to the family-doctor
tradition. One I called on to
consult at his surgery asked me
how the car was running. Then
we discussed a wood-lathe he
had just acquired, and he slipped
out to get a couple of samples
of its work. After that the
conversation turned to jet-air-
craft, but that subject lagged, as
my interest in planes ended in
1945. Finally he said “Before
you go, is your health worrying
you?” As I left, most of the
patients in the waiting-room
looked at me as if wishing
I was dead, but one seemed to
fhow a gleam of sympathy for a fellow-
sufferer who must obviously be very
sick for his symptoms to take all that
time to explain.
* ❖ ❖
“Villefair”: A prematurely-greying
young matron of my acquaintance was
passing a stationary car when its youth-
ful driver followed her, first with his
eyes, then with a low, short-range wolf-
whistle. That remarkable deafness which
The Sex reserves for such occasions en-
veloped her as she walked on; neverthe-
less, the young fellow’s aside to his mate
registered: “She’s old, but she’s nice!”
Now the lady doesn’t know whether to
be dejected by the fact that she looks
old, or elated because, by the unsolicited
testimony of a connoisseur, she is still
amongst the top-rankers, no age barred.
■fj- *jt
“Waddle”; Staging at an Australian
capital city while en route to the jungle
after return from the desert, we found
ourselves bivouacked at a racecourse. As
very few of us had ever been in that city
before we were looking forward to seeing
the sights that night, but we knew that
one of our very small strength would
be detailed for picquet duty and so would
miss the fleshpots. Our speculation as
to who would be the unlucky one was
cut short when the O.C. summoned Rusty
and addressed him: “Look here. Private
Rusty! I understand your father owns
a fair wad of this racecourse ; is that
so?” As it was common knowledge that
Rusty was one of the direct heirs to a
gentleman with an interest in a string of
establishments like the one on which we
were camped, Rusty could only admit the
impeachment. The official decision was
prompt, “Well, Private Rusty, since
your father owns this racecourse it is
only fair that you should guard it. You’re
picquet for tonight!”
❖ * ❖
“Croid”: A neatly-dressed girl accosted
me recently in a quiet city street. “Ex-
cuse me, sir,” she said, “I hate doing
this, but T’m desperate—could you give
me a shilling for something to eat?”
Touched in the better sense of the word
as well as the colloquial one, I gave her
five shillings—all the silver I had She
thanked me in a cultured voice and went
on her way. A few days later I saw her
again, approaching a man looking in a
shop-window. He evidently refused her
plea and she let forth a flow of pro-
fanity worthy of a bullocky. I hope
she makes enough money to take her to
Hollywood—her acting ability deserves
its chance.
❖ ❖
1
“Eve”: Our conductor was definitely
new to the route, and unless you asked
straight-out for one-section, two-sections
or right-out, he was as bamboozled as a
duck in a desert. The chap in the corner
asked for X-street. “How many sections
is that, mate?” said the conductor. A
crafty gleam lit the passenger’s eye as he
said, “Er, just one section.” Trustingly,
the trammie reefed-off a one-section ticket
and, handing it over, gave a scornful head-
toss towards the front of the tram as
he said, “Thought I’d just make sure!
Fellow along there’s a fool. He paid me
three-sections for that same street a
minute ago.”
# ❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: A lassie reported to the
dental hospital with a swollen and painful
face. Questioned, she averred that a
gentleman had spoken to her at a seaside
resort, and as she had not appreciated
his suggestion that she throw her bonnet !
over the windmill, he had “clocked her,” j
resulting in the aforementioned swollen
face. After examination and X-ray, the
sad news of a fractured jaw was broken
to her, and the prescribed treatment of
her jaws being wired together—even
temporarily —galvanised her into immedi-
ate action. “What,” shrilled she, “wire
me jaws together and the Fleet cornin’
in? Not me, you won’t,” and she “ups
and outs” the door.
“Dick Turpin”: Our economy is still
sound, maybe a trifle too sound, but many
of the commercial gestures of the
’thirties are wanting. One feature of
Sydney’s bookshops in those days was the
magazine-exchange system. For a penny
the indigent reader could swap a magazine
for another of the same variety. There
must have been a profit in it, and I
can’t believe that it wouldn’t pay off
now, with a price-rise to tuppence or a
trey to suit the times.
<♦ ❖ *X*
“Kanimbla”: Two members of the
staff of a Sydney factory decided to see
which of the city’s social leaders got the
biggest boost in the Press. Each day
they go through the social pages of the
papers, post up a list with the scores of
the different “competitors.” At first the
rest of the staff laughed at them, but now
most have become interested in the daily
bulletin. One of the sceptics told me he
goes every day to see who’s leading.
When he last reported progress a matron
with a French surname had it by a short
par,
DANGEROUS PRACTICE
“Some girls love to let men see how frail
and aesthetic they are, or how arty, or how
intellectual. Such attitudes scare more men
off than they attract.” —Dorothy Dix.
You may, girls, make yourselves look pale,
As if you were about to swoon.
This sometimes will impress a male —
But only if he’s quite a goon.
The damsels worked that stunt to death
{They had, by all accounts, the touch )
When reigned the first Elizabeth.
This century, though, ’s the Twentieth,
So please don’t lay it on too much.
You may profess, too, to admire
The sort of art whose devotees
Wear weird and wonderful attire,
Lank hair, sidelevers and goatees;
Who draw the female form to look
Like some horrific apparition.
But if it’s any but a sook
That''you are really out to hook,
Drop arty art with expedition.
Some men, no doubt, would be all ears
To hear you spout on Schopenhauer ;
But I’ll be frank with you, my dears,
A lot more wouldn’t — they’d turn sour.
So, girls, if you would lose your man
Talk fervently of various ‘‘isms’’;
Of things predestinarian.
And use such words, whene’er you can,
As “syzygy” and “cataclysms.”
Woman’s the hunter, don’t forget,
Although we like to kid we’re chased.
Take an old girl’s advice: Don’t let
Ethereal things leave you unplaced.
Floating along wraithlike appears
To you romantic. Scrap the fad ! Oh,
You well may strip Romance s gears.
For once your quarry floats, my dears,
You’re left with memories, souvenirs—
You’ve dropped the substance for the
shadow.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Sir John Storey, chairman of the Immi-
gration Planning Council, one-time chair-
man of the War Production Committee,
managing-director of the Overseas Cor-
poration and director of an unnumbered
quantity of industrial concerns of all
sorts, on a recent visit to northern Italy
heard of a firm which gives full medical
and adaptability tests to job-applicants.
To find out how the system works, he
donned suitable clobber and submitted
himself for a job as an electrical fitter.
The diagnosis, in effect, was that he was
temperamentally unsuited for the mono-
tony of bench-work, had little control
over his feelings and would probably
end up throwing fittings at the foreman.
• •
Appended hereunder, a small portion
of the 6ft.-odd bulk of Wilfrid Nixon,
a big man with the hefty job of managing-
's director of De Havilland’s, in England.
Visiting these parts to look over local
branches, Nixon bosses three engine-
factories and two propeller-factories as
well as the main aircraft-producing work-
shops. Handles, as well, his chief pride
and joy—De H.’s technical school, which
trains the firm’s and other apprentices
from pretty well every country in the
world. One of the original five founders
of the great firm, back in 1920, Nixon
started in the aerial business in 1910,
with the Royal Aircraft Establishment at
Farnborough. With De H. for over 30
JETS AND MISSILES
years, he’s seen tremendous
ranging over the old War I fighter and
the staunch little Tiger Moth to Mos-
quitoes, Vampires, Venoms (the Navy’s
jet). Comets, of course, and the latest
“110,” a brand-new two-seater jet night-
fighter in which the Royal Navy is in-
terested. And there’ll be a few guided
missiles streaking upwards from Woomera
next year with “De Havilland” marked
on ’em somewhere. The boss of all this
—genial, unassuming, usually engaged in
a grin—landed in Australia from an
ocean-liner.
• •
If Denis Cousins, ‘g.m. of Pye Elec-
tronics in Australia, had won Tatt.’s he
couldn’t have bqen more surprised than
when he learnt that he will share a
British Government grant of £20,000 for
the development of the radio-operated
proximity shell-fuse and the No. 19 radio-
communication for tanks, two devices
which went a long way to win War 11.
The announcement in the Melbourne
Press was the first Cousins heard about
it. His co-sharer is Thomas Spalding,
general works-manager of Appleton In-
dustries, of Brisbane.
• •
“M.”: Few men so fully deserve the
description of brave, kind and modest as
did Gwydir’s late Federal member,
Thomas John Treloar. Serenity cloaking
his age, it must have been a shock to
many who knew him on war service and
in Parliament to realise that he was 61
at the end —old enough to have had one
of iris two sons killed in action in 1944.
He himself enlisted in War I in June,
1915, and served almost to the end in
the 18th Battalion, In War 11, by then
a prosperous Tamworth (N.S.W.) store-
keeper and 50 years old, he joined the
R.A.A.F., served with the Air Training
Corps for the duration, and was dis-
charged in 1946 with the acting-rank of
squadron-leader. He was selected for
Gwydir in 1949 and again in 1951. 11l
for many months, accepting the inevitable
with cheerful resignation, he was one of
the best-loved and most-respected mem-
bers of the House.
At the cqntrols of the Royal strato-
cruiser Canopus (due to touch down in
Jamaica today, Wednesday, with its
V.V.I.P. passenger-list), Captain A. C.
Loraine has more than 14,000 hours in
his log-book, which makes him a “mile-
age millionaire” several times over. With
his first pilot’s certificate marked “1928,”
he has flown the Atlantic 164 times, and
though the Jamaica one is his most im-
portant flight, he made others of out-
standing importance in War 11. Once
he loaded emissaries of General de Gaulle
to Leopoldville, in the Belgian Congo ;
the outcome of conferences held on board
his flying-boat resulted in the whole of
French Equatorial Africa declaring for
Do Gaulle. Also, he flew Churchill to
the U.S. three times in the course of the
war.
• •
“Macnell”: Group-Captain James
Alexander, appointed Senior Air-Force
Officer in South Aus. and C.O. of Mallala
station, is as much seaman as airman.
Many a thrill he gave us aboard cruiser
Australia in the Med. before the war.
Lanky and unobtrusive, he was our Walrus
amphibian pilot, and used to squirt her
off the catapult amidships and land in
the smooth curve of our wake. Seaboat
coxswains admired the way he brought
her up to the crane-wire to hook-on, and,
in rough seas, certainly did not envy him.
Later he did survey work in the N.T.,
then established the first R.A.A.F. base
at Moresby. With War II he returned,
more or less, to sea, in command of the
famed 10 Squadron of Sunderland flying-
boats based on Plymouth. In 1944, off
Plymouth, two airmen were torn from
a damaged flying-boat by gale-driven
seas. Fully clothed, Alexander took to
the water and brought both men to
safety. For this, the Humane Society’s
Silver Medal and the Stanhope Gold
Medal. He moves on from the job of
R.A.A.F. Director of Intelligence. Forty-
six, he hails from Brisbane.
• •
Scored 70 against Father Time, Harold
Rowe, one of Westralia’s best all-round
athletes. Captain of the State cricket
eleven many times, he’s the only member
of a Westralian side to knock up a
century against England—scored on the
Perth Oval in 1908. As a footballer, he
played for West Perth through 13 seasons
and captained that team in three grand-
finals. As a sideline, he won the South-
Western golf title and he’s been president
of the State Golf Association. He was a
sporting broadcaster for the A.B.C. when
that aspect of air-activity was in its
infancy.
• 9
Mentioned (B. 11/11/’53) that the
radiomen were converging on Sydney for
the epic Christmas Day broadcast on the
Queen’s tour. Two of the top tier
(“technical twins” to their helpmates)
are Reginald Patrick and John Tuite.
Patrick is paid by the 8.8. C., Tuite by
the P.M.G. Assistant-superintendent
engineer (recording) of the B.B.C.—which
is about as big as any recording job in
radio—Patrick began in the corporation’s
early Savoy Hill days, and was one of
the two engineers in charge of the in-
stallation of technical equipment at Broad-
casting House when the 8.8. C. moved
there in 1931. In 1926 he had a hand in
the first broadcast of the Oxford-
Cambridge boatrace, and in 1928 helped
with the first magnetic tape-recording
equipment to be used by any broadcasting
organisation. Tuite, who’s been working
for the past six months on the enormous
organisation for the broadcast (more than
20 countries coming in; some 20 million
prospective listeners), normally toils as
divisional engineer (broadcasting) in the
Dalley-street (Sydney) works of the
P.M.G.
9 9
Collins of the Sydney would seem to
be making a seamanlike fist of the Navy’s
top post. For the second time he’s had
his appointment as First Naval Member
extended, which will take him into 1955.
That will mean seven years in a job
normally limited to three. Personal
characteristics as well as professional com-
petence make him an easy man to work
with. «
9 9
The new Master of the Queen’s Music,
succeeding the late Sir Arnold Bax, is
62-year-old Sir Arthur Bliss. In 1913
Bliss went to the Royal College of Music,
studying under Villiers Stanford, Vaughan
Williams and Holst. He served in War 1,
was twice wounded, and on demob,
abandoned academic learning and worked
on his own to such effect that three
years later he accepted a professorship
of composition at his Alma Mater. He
gave this up the following year, having
become financially independent, to con-
centrate on composing. He has written
a ballet, a lot of orchestral, chamber
and vocal music, and a swag of film
incidental music, which he has been
composing since 1935, when he wrote
what was needed for Wells’s “Things to
Come.” Much of his composing has an
astringent quality, but some of his
chamber-music is worth hearing. On her
Coronation the Queen entered the Abbey
to music he composed.
• ' •
Passed on at Medindie (S.A.), William
Murray Fowler, chairman of directors of
D. and J. Fowler, a firm whose branches
reach from London to Broken Hill.
W.M, had a wide variety of interests
extending from his office in Adelaide. He
had been president of the S.A. Aero Club,
had a seat on the committee of the State’s
Royal Automobile Club, chaired the
directors of Elder, Smith, and, among
others, of Robur Tea. Nineteen when
War I broke out, he got away early as
a second-lieutenant, and came home in
1919 a major, with M.C. Fifty-eight.
• •
Canberra residents should present a
silver trowel or something of the l sort to
John Thomas Pinner, F.1.C.A., F.1.P.A.,
Commonwealth Public Service Commis-
sioner just retired. It was he who, in
1927, as an auditor with the Federal
Capital Commission, smelt a rat in the
foundations of Canberra’s original
administrative building— -too much sand
and too little cement in the concrete-mix.
Against opposition, he got the cancellation
of a contract which would have made a
bad joke of that inscription on a Canberra
tombstone, “Here we build an enduring
city.” He also ferreted out discrepancies
in the pay-system when serving in War I
with the Army Pay Corps, and what he
did then still operates today. His report
on the transition from war to peace pre-
pared during War II is regarded as a
classic of its kind. He was bora at Middle
Brighton (Vic.).
e •
New principal of Hobart Technical
College, Edgar- Griffits (correct spelling)
runs B.Sc. (Eng.), A.C.G.L, D.I.C.
(London) and A.M.I. Mech E. after his
name. A dark, precisely spoken English-
man, he has been lecturing in engineering
at Hobart Tech, and University for the
past six years. With previous experi-
ence in the British motor-industry and
war-time administrative work with the
Admiralty, he’ll bring to the new post
business as well as academic know-how.
• •
“Fitz” on a wanderer:
Seventy-two-year-old Archer Russell, whose
Murray Walkabout has just been published by
Melbourne University Press, set out to see the
world at 14, carrying a swag alone for 200
miles in his native South Australia. At 16 he
was mustering cattle and sheep-dodging,
brumby-hunting in the wild Everard Ranges
and droving cattle down the Birdsville track.
Followed years as an overseer west of the
Darling, deck-hand on a Darling River wool-
boat and opal-gouger at White Cliffs.
In 1908 he went to Africa; got a job with
a trading concern on the Congo-Zambesi
Divide; traded with another in the Katanga
region of the Belgian Congo, dealing mostly
in rubber, ivory and native-grain and doing a
BOOKS AND TRAVELS
good deal of big-game hunting on the upper
Congo; visited Victoria Falls six times;
explored the famed Zimbabwe ruins. Arrested
as a spy in German East Africa, he was re-
leased owing to lack of evidence; came War I
and he was with the A.I.F. on Gallipoli.
In the ’twenties he tried Centralia —on camel-
back —covering the Musgrave and western
Macdonnell Ranges and the Finke River
country from the river’s source. He’s written
close on a dozen books, the best of which are
A Tramp Royal In Wild Australia, Gone
Nomad and Bushways; also a biography of
William Farrer.
A slightly-built chap, brisk in his movements
and an alert talker, Russell has a passionate
love of Australian birds. Years ago I saw him
tackle and put to rout a gang of young louts,
one of whom had wantonly shot a kooka-
burra.
As indicated by Coventry, Eric Spencer
Williams, of Adelaide, handles money-
bags—the bank-vault variety. He has
banking very much in his family links:
two daughters are in banks, brother-in-law
works in a Victorian bank, and father-in-
law is a retired bank-officer. He himself
was the other day appointed g.-m. of
the South Australian Savings Bank, in
succession to Brigadier M. J. Moten, who
died recently. Forty-one years with his
present money-house, Williams had 13
years’ experience of country branches, in
BANKS AND BANKS
1929 became officer-in-charge of the then
newly-formed special-purpose savings
department, next manager of the account-
ing department, then, in 1948, secretary
of the bank. A West Torrens district-
cricketer of class in his day, he now
makes a weekend study of figures on a
golf-card.
• •
Clarence R. Hibbert, of St, Kilda-road,
Melbourne, is the latest recipient of the
George Medal. Senior examiner of air-
men for the Department of Civil Avia-
tion in the Papua-New Guinea region, he
was piloting a Drover aircraft from
Wewak to Momote airfield, Manus Island,
when a propeller broke off, cut into the
cabin and smashed his left foot. He got
the plane under control, radioed a
distress-signal, then handed over to a
fellow-officer, T. P. Drury, who, although
he had never previously piloted a Drover,
successfully ditched the plane while
Hibbert prepared a dinghy. They were
rescued from the sea 110 miles from
Manus. Drury gets a Civil Commenda-
tion.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 51, Francis Aloysius Dwyer, J.,
of the N.S.W. Supreme Court. Son of a
lawyer, born in Goulburn, he took first-class
law-honors from Sydney University in 1927
and took silk in 1941. Much of his legal work
—he was elevated to the Bench in 1948 — had
to do with Governmental inquiries. His most
widely-known case, perhaps, was that in which
he appeared for artist Dobell in the Archibald
Prize dispute.
In Melbourne, at 48, Arthur Groom, well-
remembered by War H Diggers who trained
at the “green hell” of Canungra jungle-
training school in North Queensland. Medi-
cally unfit for service, Groom detailed himselt
off as an unpaid Army lecturer, teaching the
troops how to live on nutritious New Guinea
plants, and how to know poisonous ones.
Once, while he was lecturing, a car-load of
Army brass drew up and joined the class.
They were from General Wingate’s Burma
force, sent by their leader to learn from Groom.
A bushman who knew Queensland and the
Territory as well as he knew his own house
when he lived in one —Groom wrote two
travel-books, and had returned to Melbourne
from n.-w. Australia to work on another when
the end came.
In Melbourne, at 83, Septimus A. Ralph,
g.o.m. of the city’s practising solicitors. Still
at work up to a few months ago, he had been
a member of the Victorian Bar for 62 years.
At one time he was a violinist with the Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra.
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at 84, James Duncan
the Dominion’s (if not the world’s) greatest
five-eighth Rugby player. Jimmy began play-
ing 70 years ago with the Kaikorai (Dunedin)
club, and captained the Otago representative
team from 1895 to 1903. He was a member
of A. Bayley’s team which toured Australia m
1897, captained the N.Z. team in an inter-
national match against N.S.W. in 1901, arid
again in Australia in 1903. In 1905 he was
coach with the original All Black team that
toured Britain and established the name ot
“All Black” in the annals of Rugbydom.
In Sydney, at 69, Eustace Simpson, one of
the movers in establishing the New England
University at Armidale (N.S.W.), and member
of its advisory council. He conducted a legal
business in Armidale; hobby, racehorses.
At Timaru (N.Z.), at 80, Charles Stuart
Parnell, whose musical record covered 60
years. At 18 he had his own orchestra playing
in a Sydney cabaret, and later joined the Ben
Fuller outfit, transferring to N.Z. as its con-
ductor and chief musical-director. He got to
France with the N.Z.E.F. in War I, and after-
wards stayed on in England, for a time con-
ducting the Bournemouth Municipal Orchestfa.
At 81, in Melbourne, A. A. Farthing, MX.A.
for East Melbourne for 20 years before the 1926
redistribution. He had been Government Whip,
Chairman of Committees and Deputy-Speaker.


WOMEN IN HIS LIFE


ABORIGINALITIES
EVERY year in the Westralian Kimber-
leys there’s a season which people in
more favored areas could describe as a
drought. In a normal year the rains
come during the monsoon season from
January to March. There’s life in the
country then —rich feed, fat cattle, rushing
rivers. Up till July there’s still plenty
of food, but it isn’t as green, and the
rivers are subsiding. During the next
three months the feed dries off, rivers
become strings of waterholes. From
October to December there’s the normal
drought, during which cattle lose condi-
tion and can’t move far from waterholes,
and some die . . . But this year it isn’t
a normal drought. The last two mon-
soonal seasons have been poor ones, so
the present drought has hit a country
that hasn’t had a chance to recover from
the last, and station-owners are praying
for rain without being quite sure whether
they want their prayers answered before
January, because rain now could do some
harm. An old Kimberley identity de-
scribes it bluntly. He says he now knows
how deserts are formed.— “ Bass.”
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“J.E.L.”: Swallows built a nest in the
residence of our Australorps, but, appa-
rently deciding that the feathers from their
'It’s a boy!”
hostesses would make too funereal a
bedspread, helped themselves freely to
those available from the White Leghorns
segregated in a near-by shed.
» ♦ ♦ *
“Lower Tops’l”: Cutty Sark isn’t the
only crack Australian wool-clipper still
afloat. Two years ago on the Clyde,
beside the Jamaica Bridge in Glasgow,
I was guest aboard the trim clipper Craig-
end, now a hulk used as a residential
club by naval reserve officers. Members
are put-up in the old-world cabins lead-
ing off the dining-saloons, and the hold
between decks is a lounge with a bar;
it’s where they hold club dances and
receptions. The stewards, mostly ex-
R.N. matelots, sleep forward near the
galley. This beautiful little composite
vessel, built in 1864 by Devitt and Moore
as the City of Adelaide, ran from London
to the “Port River” for decades as the
favorite passenger-ship on the S.A. run.
Once she made the voyage in 64 days.
Of only 791 tons, she was smaller than
“The Sark.” A photo of her commander,
Captain David Bruce, a weatherbeaten,
grey-whiskered Scot, dressed in frock-
coat and straw-hat, adorns the saloon.
* * * *
“Tree”: Perhaps the answer to “Mack-
ville’s” wonder as to where the biggest
tree in Australia stands today (B.
4/11/’53) may be found here in Heales-
ville (Vic.). About 20 years ago two
brothers, Harold and John Furmston,
members of a family who are all “men
of the trees,” came across a mountain-
ash C Eucalyptus regnans ) which seemed
exceptional even before 1939, when there
were countless thousands of magnifi-
cent giants, since burnt and gone. Grow-
ing on Mount Monda, in Board of Works
territory near the top of Black’s Spur,
in one of the very few patches of virgin
forest the inferno missed, it is still living
although its top has gone, and its girth is
63ft. at 7ft. from the ground. That is
the official measurement. Furmston’s
Tree —now so-named —is only claimed to
be the biggest known hardwood living in
Australia. There may be bigger trees of
other species up in the northern rain-
forests.
• ••••«
“Edx”: When you’re being told about
the size of trees there are three things you
want to know: height, girth (usually taken
6ft. above the ground) and length of bole.
If “the largest living tree in Australia
measured 26ft. in diameter” (B. 4/11 /’53)
it certainly wasn’t the tallest, nor was it
a eucalypt. I’ve seen trees with a root-
system coming out of the trunk like flying
buttresses off a cathedral wall, the sort
of thing that makes for impressive tape-
readings but doesn’t necessarily indicate
great height or even volume. The tallest
trees in Australia (W.A. karri) haven’t
half that diameter and they soar into
heaven as clean as organ-pipes ; half their
height to the first tremendous branch.
Hardwoods never match the great soft-
woods in diameterthey don’t have to.
Nature doesn’t spend centuries building
a tree just to have it blown over by the
wind, and those she fashions in weak
softwood must be able to resist her storms
as well as those in hardwood. Comparing
trees of equal height, redwood and kauri
have roughly twice the diameter of karri,
or four times the cross-sectional area,
which accounts for the fact that for every
square inch of timber across the trunk
the Australian giant has four times their
strength.
* ♦ ♦ •
“Yapping Bushman”: A mule will beat
a Merino any day at doing a starve (B.
4/11/’53). Droving in the Queensland
Gulf country we had two mules in the
wagonette. We were short of horses, so
we put those mules to rounding-up the
mob before dinner-camp and at nightfall
There was little feed, so to prevent them
roaming we tied them up to trees all night.
For weeks the mules had nothing to
eat but gidyea-bark and a mouthful of
anything edible they snatched as they went
along in the winkers. Yet they never lost
condition—or cussedness.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“S.G.”: No, “P.0.M.C.” (B. 4/11/’53),
I didn’t say the tunnelling spider found
in W.A. was a funnelweb. I said it was
thought to be one until an expert proved
it wasn’t. But if it had been one the
ground would have been the place to have
looked for it. As far as I know the
“And when I say ‘Break,' break clean."
genuine funnelweb, A Wax robustus, isn’t
found outside N.S.W., and there only in
the Port Jackson area ; and it is definitely
a ground-dweller. You’ll find its web on
the ground and under stones, and never
inside a building. It’s worth remembering
that all spiders have poison-glands ; most
eject a poison that’s fatal or paralysing
only to their particular prey, but quite
a few can seriously affect man, and some,
like the funnelwebs and red-backs, can
be fatal. Not long ago the “Medical
Journal of Australia” reported the case
of a boy bitten by a N.S.W. North Coast
funnel-web —Atrax formidabilas, not the
Port Jackson species. Within an hour he
was given injections, but his condition
deteriorated. He was saved by blood-
letting and injections of tiger-snake anti-
venine.
* * * *
. , ,
' Gulliver : As a warning to those who
might attempt the slaughter of serpents
missdes, as “Brick E. ’ did (B.
11/11/ 53), let me recount the sad story
of two motorists who encountered on
North Queensland’s treeless and stone-
less downs a large python. Craving its
hide, they decided upon its destruction ;
lacking suitable weapons, they hurled the
jack at its head—and missed. The valu-
able implement now lay Ift. or so from
the head of the monster, and its recovery
was imperative. Several tyre-levers fol-
lowed it, but did no more than cause
the reptile to regard them soporifically—
he was recovering from a royal gorge,
The attackers then bounced several good
spanners off his hide, producing no more
than a gentle undulation in the heap of
, . , , ...
bit of hardware missed it. Eventually one
of them had a brainwave; a ball of oily
waste ignited and hurled accurately. The
python left hurriedly; so, after recovering
their gear, did the motorists.
* * * *
“Bass”: When a musk-duckling be-
came separated from its mother and
joined the muscovies at feeding-time, we
tried to feed it. We mixed mash, ground
wheat, even prospected in the swamp for
what a musk-duckling might regard as
titbits ; but we couldn’t entice it or force
any food down its obstinate little throat,
It died after three days, and we were
left wondering what these things eat and
why this on© wouldn’t. Now this year’s
batch has emerged, one to each pair of
adults, and we know half the answer.
Musk-duckhngs dont teed-theyre fed.
Unlike Other duckhngs. whrch can forage
&
feeder, and as she surfaces after each
dive mother and chick swim together,
their beaks touch, there’s a quick gulp,
and the kid urges her below again. I’ve
taken the young of both black- and
mountain-duck straight from the nest,
less than an hour old, and reared them
without bother ; but I’d say that a musk-
duckling which loses its mother is doomed.
That, of course, applies to most nestlings
which are fed until they can fly; but
ducklings are feathered at hatching, and
in most cases the nest is abandoned im-
mediately after that. Which raises a
point. Do musk-ducks, whose nest is
usually not far above water, continue to
bed down each night until the ducklings,,
can fend for themselves?
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Inglebar”: “Saaedi” (B. 11/11/’s3)is
mainly right in claiming that birds which
nest in tree-hollows lay white eggs, but
there’s one exception—one of the smallest
members of the hawk tribe, the little rusty
nankeen-kestrel, or mosquito-hawk. It
lays four or five salmon-colored eggs
patterned with brown tracery. Mainly an
insect-feeder, it does good work when
young grasshoppers are on the wing,
When no convenient rock-crevice is handy
its larger, less-attractive cousin, the pere-
grine-falcon, will make-do with a tree-
hollow. Its eggs are plain buff,
0
♦ ♦
. .
“W.J.W.”: Cutting cord-wood in
jarrah and banksia country, I knew, and
liked, most of the bush noises; but one,
a continuous ticking sound, didnt belong
and it was sleep-destroying. For nights I
hunted it, digging up the tent-floor in
search of toads or crickets, or stalking
winged insects in the adjacent scrub. The
noise seemed to come from all directions
w £ en my ear was on the p in ow; w hen I
sat up it lessen ed, and that finally gave
me the due j had to split one of my
j arrah bush-bedposts to find the culprit
_ a common borer, about lin. long and
thinner than a ndl He was eating h is
through the post in a cut smoother
than that of a c i rcu l ar . Saw and almost as
dea f en j ng
* ♦ ♦ •
“Old-timer”: Few people can resist
the bold, rolling lines of Newbolt’s
“Drake’s Drum,” and Little Curl took
them to his heart. At any tick of the
dock he’d stand up at the table, or in his
saddl or ba ck from the bar, or in
bed and let her Nobody worried
much abOU * U » b ® <™ B S ° ber ’ b “‘
when he was molo he’d recite the dashed
v r. * • t-u *
° ver and a k am ’ m t ade
when he was sober were, of course, for-
gotten when he got a few in, and
though we hoped time would weary him it
didn’t look like it. One night in Euston
we were gathered morosely on Medley’s
f ub veranda, on one end of which
® anet * (ur ’ -’? aunt enn f J.' P 1 •
Scout in uniform went past, FI g
straightened up and followed the scou .
A brief time passed. Then Fleming re-
appeared. “ An’ if the Dons sight Devon,
We’ll (hie) quirra porra Heav’n, An’
drummem up (hie) Channel as we”—Curl
got that far when the vigorous roll of a
kettledrum burst out behind him. He
gulped,‘turned and gazed blearily into the
n j g ht, seeing nothing because Fleming
bad hidden that Boy Scout behind a tree-
d » strike me! - Curl muttered,
» dto his horse and rode home Next
da V b * « 8 - th3t f WaS
out the booze. Went as close as a
can S° 1 die horrors, he said, m th
tone of one who has had a dreadful
warning.
THE PAIR OF ’EM
Whenever Kate plods up the hill,
flecked with light, at rhythmic pace,
I like to watch her driver’s face.
Dan’s thoughts are all of orders, or a girl—
that blue-eyed sheila, his next date
with her at a suburban dance —
or he’s uneasy, since he’s running late
...that brings him back to Kafe.
Learned is Dan
in horselore (bless the man!).
If weather’s heavy down he comes to walk,
and Kate between the shafts the harness shakes
as though Dan were offsider,
putting extra punch into the pull
up the steep grade.
Customers may have to wait,
but blast it, he can’t punish Kate
just because Jupiter is pluvius!... Sure, there
are blokes who nothing think
of overloading, heedless of the strait
an old mare may be in on a wet trip
where the road’s tough for iron shoes to grip...
At times Kate doubts she will, then knows she
can,
the moment Dan
leaps down into the mire.
Sweating and game she finds the needed ounce,
Dan grinning, proud. “Whacko, and let ’er go,
old lady. Whoa, whoa!
Ain’t she a beaut?”
Together man and beast,
the gallant pair of them,
conquer their small Everest.
Then it’s spell-oh!—
wet, panting and elate
Dan, the freckled, red-haired baker’s man
And Kate.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


A BOUT 16 years ago C. T. Madigan
found a large meteorite at Huckitta,
n.-e. of Alice Springs. Roughly egg-
shaped and 4ft. long, it weighed nearly a
ton. A patron of the S.A, Museum paid
the cost of having it brought to Adelaide
and sawn in halves to expose its internal
structure. The Islington Railway Work-
shops offered to do the cutting, but soon
found they had a real contract on their
hands. Steel saws wouldn’t look at it,
nor would the ordinary abrasive wheels.
Finally a special cutting disk, 4ft. in
diameter, was made up with 32 industrial
diamonds set around the rim to serve as
teeth. This was mounted in an end-mill
and the sawing began. Three weeks of
steady cutting were needed before the
job was done, and then the cause of the
tough going was revealed. The body of
the meteorite was composed of the usual
alloy of nickel and iron, but was studded
with huge crystals of olivine, a substance
as hard as a ruby. The two sawn faces
of the meteorite were polished with
diamond-dust and the S.A. Museum now
has on show not only the biggest meteorite
‘‘slice” in the world, but also one of the
most interesting.— “Elkeedra.”
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“G.”: The grasshoppers now in plague-
flights over parts of inland N.S.W. are
a hardy tribe. One grazier put several
in the refrigerator and froze them abso-
lutely stiff; placed in the sun for a
while they recovered and promptly tucked
into the surrounding grass with appetites
apparently sharpened by the recent cold
snap. Years ago a researcher, having
decapitated one of the pests, noticed a
little later that the front end was munching
grass as placidly as ever, and passing a
stream of chewed tucker from the
severed end of its gullet. Quite some time
elapsed before it (apparently) realised the
futility of the performance and died.
♦ ♦ * *
“Horseless Horseman”: On Noonkan-
bah station (W.A.) we mustered for shear-
ing, The party comprised a white over-
seer mounted on a horse, four half-caste
stockmen on mules and a couple of
hundred blacks on foot. The boongs
swept across-country at their leisure on
a five-mile face lighting spinifex smokes,
driving the sheep ahead of them with
green bushes, while the mounted musterers
rode up and down the cordon watching
“Why SHOULDN’T he show an interest? He's going for his
engineer's ticket."
that the bucks and gins did not take too
much time-off catching lizards, wallabies
and parrots with throwing-sticks as they
went. Even so, combining mustering with
hunting as they went, their total catch
for the day weighed several tons, making
a sumptuous feast for a corroboree at
the homestead camp that night.
* « * *
“Tim Burr”: Queensland silky-oak (B.
28/10/’53) is a member of a very large
group of plants known as the Proteacece.
There are nearly 1000 species pf the order
spread over the earth’s temperate regions,
some 600 growing in Australia. Silky-
oak, beefwood, Queensland-nut, Vic-
torian-waratah, needlewood and some of
the other hakeas, to mention only a few
of the commercial sorts, all exhibit a very
attractive oak-like figure or grain in
their timber, which arises from the broad
medullary rays (lateral conducting cells)
in their structures. Proteas are remark-
"We might strike a bit o' trouble about here."
able also for the beauty and singularity
of their flowers, the shape and color in
many species inspiring the motif in
decorative art.
* * ♦ •
“Bass”: I’d like particulars of “Jira-
mon’s” grass-tree, which “came up as a
seedling” in 1921 and had stems 22in,
high in 1943 (B. 4/11/’53). I’ve never
seen a seedling grass-tree, to recognise it
as such, and I’m not convinced that “J.”
has, either, I’ve seen the “blackboys”
with only a few fronds, or leaves, above
ground, but they’d already developed
sizeable trunks below. In fact, the smallest
“blackboys” I’ve grubbed had the makings
of good solid trunks extending several
inches below ground; in some really big
ones the trunks go down a few feet with-
out diminishing in girth. The leaves,
some of which “J.” may have mistaken
for the first shoots of a seedling, grow
from the centre of the plant, in layers,
the outside layers eventually widening at
the bases to form the characteristic
segments of which the trunk is composed.
That system makes for a very small yearly
growth, since each layer of leaves must
grow, mature and die off to add an eighth
of an inch to the plant’s height,
# " .
“8.A.K.”: Without denying the dura-
bility of Australian hardwoods and New
Zealand heart-of-totara (B. 28/10/’53),
the quoted fact that local cockies paid
more for old timber in a demolished
bridge than the whole structure had cost
to build 52 years before is hardly any
criterion. Dealers in second-hand build-
ing-materials have long been aware that
laymen will cheerfully pay more for old
stuff than new would cost Moreover,
there’s a picnic atmosphere about a rural
auction sale; the comradeship of meet-
ing distant neighbors; the humor of
good-natured badinage between auctioneer
and clients; the “lucky-dip” hangover
from childhood days that makes you
think you’re going to see just the thing
you’ve always wanted; and, lastly, the
exciting sport of' outbidding rivals who
think they can outbid you. I recall a
neighbor who bought a hand-chaffcutter
for 15-bob more than the local store
was asking for ’em. “No matter,” he
said triumphantly, “it was great fun, and
I walloped that other bloke who was
after it.” I just couldn’t bring myself
to tell him that the other bloke was the
auctioneer’s brother.
* ♦ * *
“N.8.G.”: Metals from plants (B.
28/10/’53)? A letter from Peking dated
Nov. 4, 1734 (one of a collection written
by various Jesuit missionaries, and pub-
lished in 34 volumes), gives this recipe;
Take the leaflets of the purple Purslane
(portulacca) and crush in a mortar (using
a pestle of acacia wood). Leave in the
sun for three or four days. When dry,
burn. Place the ashes in a glazed earthen-
ware pot and bury fairly deeply. Disinter
after 94 days and the pot will be found
to contain mercury. The writer asserts
that he consulted a Chinese physician
about this, and was assured that druggists
sold two kinds of mercury; one, called
chan choui in, obtained by mining; the
other, tsao choui in, prepared in the way
described.
* * * *
“Bellfield”; Best bush-shot I ever saw
was a man well past middle-age; if a
rabbit ran from scrub to scrub across a
track barely a pace wide, he rarely missed.
In those circumstances the target is visible
for less than a second, and in that time it
has to be sighted, the gun thrown up to
the shoulder, aimed, and fired. It is in-
conceivable that any man could really
sight his weapon in such a fraction of
time; how, then, does a snapshot hit his
mark? I’ve heard lots of theories; per-
haps the closest is that the hand follows
the eye, just as we can point the index-
finger directly at any object. I once
thought I’d blundered on to the secret
when the crack shot remarked that his
right-side hammer had become loose.
“But it won’t fall off —I always shoot
with my forefinger along that side.” No ;
I didn’t develop into a snapshot—ever
tried pulling a trigger with the middle
finger?
* * ♦ *
“Gravelsnatcher”; When marsupials
first became known the feature that
attracted most attention was the pouch,
or marsupium. By the time it was dis-
covered that in some species the female
didn’t have a pouch, and that there was
a far more distinguishing feature common
to all species, the term marsupial had been
accepted. It would be hard to replace
it now, but there’s an alternative name
in scientific use: didelphia, meaning
double-womb. In all didelphia, or mar-
supials, the female genital tract consists
of a double, instead of a single, canal,
and the kidney ducts are placed between
them instead of on both sides as in
the higher mammals. This peculiar dis-
position of the kidney and genital ducts —
the only anatomical feature that dis-
tinguishes marsupials from the higher
mammals—limits the gestation period and
makes it necessary for the young to be
born in a very immature state. In some
carnivorous marsupials that period is
limited to about eight or nine days, and
even amongst the herbivores a kangaroo
that will eventually stand 6ft. high starts
life as a lin.-long mite creeping into its
mother’s pouch. One of the most in-
teresting of the pouchless marsupials is
the numbat, a termite-eating inhabitant
of sou’-Westralia. About Ift. long, it
has a long, brushlike tail and a pointed
snout. The young, born very immature,
develop further on the mother’s teat; but
in the absence of a pouch they simply
hang there, so firmly attached they can’t
be dislodged without damage to both
mouth and teat. As the numbat goes
in for multiple births you’d think this
mode of transport would be inconvenient,
but it doesn’t seem to interfere with
either the mother’s feeding or running.
* * ♦ ♦
“Mero”: Our Papuan houseboy was
regaling us with his experiences during
the war, drawing his forefinger across his
throat to demonstrate his method of dis-
posing of Japanese. One Nip, however,
he elected to bring back alive. “And
what made you select him?” I asked.
Simakai looked arch. “Oh,” he explained,
“easy see him a chocco! ”
* * ♦ ♦
“Bogaduck”: Nature plays odd tricks
with seasons and crops. Dad sowed a
crop of oats on wheat-stubble. The sea-
son was wonderful; a mild winter and
rain just when it was needed. The oats
grew, as did just about all the milk-
thistles, capeweed, wild-oats and salva-
tion-jane that could fit in among the oat-
stalks. Just as the oats were ripening a
scorching northerly shook half the grain
from the heads. Dad was so disgusted
he turned the sheep in and let them eat
oats and weeds to the ground. Next
season the rains brought up a mat of pas-
ture in the paddock. The sheep ate it
down. It was spelled for three weeks,
then grazed-off again. Dad had a look
at it before the sheep were to go back
for the third time. “We won’t graze it,”
he said. “It looks like being the finest
self-sown crop of oats I ever saw.” It
was ; we reaped 18 bags to the acre from
it. Yet the closing months of that season
were so bad we reaped mighty little
wheat.
* ♦ « *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat was running late
for the train from Beulah (Vic.) down to
Murtoa and, seeing it blowing off steam
and sort of chafing at the bit in the
station, broke into a gallop up the street
and across the station yard. Coming
obliquely from the goods-shed a local
policeman sighted Mat and shouted,
“Hey! Where do y’ think you’re going?”
“Murtoa,” Mat howled back, “an’ I hope
that ruddy enginedriver thinks so, too!”
CANBERRA SUMMER NOON
Along Molonglo-side the willow weeps,
Trailing green slender fingers where the stream
Chuckles o’er sandy, pebbly bars, agleam
With sunlit ripples, while the valley sleeps;
The heron mocks impatience where he keeps
Grave watch, one-legged; the glancing swallows
seem
Threading the fabric of a drowsy dream,
Skimming the shallows where the bright trout
leaps.
The big white house up yonder means to these
Less than the muted murmur of the bees:,
They go about their business, live and die,
Eat, sleep, unreasoning nor asking why;
Uninfluenced by fatuous argument
As Nature’s law by Acts of Parliament.
N.S.W.
HUI TE RANGIORA.
A DESCENDANT PROTESTS
I feel I must rise and object to
“S.W.K.’s” description (B. 28/10/’53) of
my nearer progenitors as flat-headed, ape-
like creatures.
So far as we know, that describes the
bloke we call the Neanderthal man, who
was contemporary with Cro-Magnon man,
and no ancestor of mine—or, to bp fair, of
“S.W.K.” either.
Those four-tone animal drawings on the
cave-walls in Spain weren’t done by any
ape-like creature. Cro-Magnon man was
a tall, erect, high-headed artistic human
being. His intellectual development was
in advance of the 19th-century Tasmanian
abo.’s, and not far short (if at all) of
our own.
The Neanderthaler, whom Cro drove
from his caves and exterminated (without
interbreeding), was a sub-man; a cousin
many times removed; an offshoot from
the shadowy, guessed-at line of human
descent, which stretches away into the
darkness of the past.
Cro-Magnon man is said to be our true
direct ancestor, the time of his appearance
in Europe with the recession of the last
of the ice (about 30,000 to 40,000 years
ago) being as far back as the most ambi-
tious human family-tree can reach. That’s
what stumps the experts —this sudden
appearance of humanity, apparently
mentally and physically as well-equipped
as we are today, with neither trace of
forebears nor indication of whence they
came.
MARK O’POLO.


r.
&
J
XS>
i
n
vC
4nd
SUPER DC-6B COMFORT
Fly Canadian Pacific to North America in Giant
Super DC-6B Airliners —the fastest, most modern,
and most luxurious aircraft across the Pacific.
Only Canadian Pacific has Super DC-6B’s on this
route! Only Canadian Pacific provides free 18|
hours stopover at Honolulu —where you stay at
the famous Moana Hotel—right on Waikiki Beach.
NEW! CANADIAN PACIFIC SOUTH AMERICAN
SERVICE, Vancouver to Lima, Peru. Direct connections
to Santiago, Buenos Aires, Sao Paula and Rio.
mf
For full details consult your Local
Travel Agent or Canadian Pacific
Air Lines Limited, 247 George
Street, Sydney, and 59 William
Street, Melbourne; or Union Steam
Ship Co. (General Agents).
DEPARTURES FROM SYDNEY
EVERY TUESDAY
Canadim if Pacific
AIRLINES
CANADIAN PACIFIC AIR LINES LIMITED INC. IN CANADA
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
761bs.
'■ &
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers’
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. • • 2/-
Yearly Subscription.. .. 22/6
o
n
o
U^ZJ
J
LJ
*7M
w%
•< f
i
n
EJ
GOOD WHISKY
MUST HAVE
STYLE
and in McCallum’s,
knowledgeable men always
find that perfection of style
brought about by the experienced
blending of grain and malt whiskies
the
name
Calliun
the whisky is
ft)
S
*5"
Wholly distilled and blended in Scotland
MCISa/6.2
Business Rollery Etc.
Munlcipal Bribery
TN the Sydney Central Sum-
mons Court on November 18
Mr. Beavers, S.M., fined Edward
Charles Erwin, formerly Mayor
of Leichhardt, £3OO for having
corruptly solicited and received
£2OO to have a council decision
reversed. Next day he was fined
£4OO on a similar charge.
The magistrate said it had
been established that on June
18 last year George William
Hutchings applied for permis-
sion to build a garage. The
application was refused by the
council. Later Hutchings was
interviewed by Robert Forgie,
of the council’s engineering
staff, who told him he could do
nothing about the garage, but
Erwin had later told Forgie that
if Hutchings paid £2OO he
would “get the boys to put it
through.” Hutchings, said Mr.
Beavers, had paid Forgie £lOO
in cash and £lOO in a post-
dated cheque, which was later
cashed by Hutchings for Forgie.
Mr. Beavers said he accepted
Forgie’s evidence, though Forgie
no doubt aided and abetted in
the offence.
Mr. Beavers went on:
The bribe received was an extensive
one of £2OO, but I think I might
safely infer that the defendant him-
self did not retain the whole of the
money, perhaps not a very substan-
tial part of it.
However, a high standard of in-
tegrity is expected from any person
occupying the position of alderman
and mayor, and the penalty, even
after taking into consideration the
defendant’s long, good record prior
to this occurrence, must he sub-
stantial.
In the second case, lan Wil-
fred Doney, sales-manager of
Vulcanite Pty., Ltd., said that
some time before October, 1951,
he took an application to use
premises in Tebbiitt - street,
Leichhardt, to the Leichhardt
Council and paid the fee. He
later saw Erwin, who said he had
a petition against the applica-
tion. According to Doney:
Erwin finally leant back in his
chair and said: “I will tell you how
we run the council. It is run on the
caucus system, and the night prior
to each council meeting we have a
caucus meeting at which all busi-
ness for the following night is dis-
cussed and decisions made.
“On the night of the council meet-
ing, contentious matters are referred
to only by item-numbers and passed
through by the council in that form
so that members of the public in the
gallery are not aware of the matter
being passed till final approval has
been made.
“Because of this passing of con-
tentious matters the aldermen feel
that they gain unpopularity and lose
votes. They feel that they need some
compensation for this. We can
approve this matter for the sum of
£100.”
Doney declared that he had
said to Erwin:
“Prior to coming here it was felt
that some sort of payment may be
necessary, and in discussing it with
my directors I was given to under-
stand that £5O might be as much as
they are prepared to pay, and should
be adequate.”
Erwin (said Doney) replied;
“Don’t be a piker, Mr. Doney. I
can’t offer my boys £5 each. There
are 10 of us in the caucus meetings
and the money is divided between Us.
“There is no need to pay the
money now. We want to be fair
with you. We don’t want the money
till you have had approval. You tell
us that you will pay £lOO and we
will have our inspection and caucus
meeting and council meeting, and
the following day you can call at
the Town Hall and get the letter of
approval.
“Take it to your solicitor, say that
you have everything you want, and
we will have lunch in town together.”
Doney said he told Erwin he
was not in a position to commit
himself. He would have to dis-
cuss it with his directors. Erwin
had replied:
“Let me put it this way and state
a hypothetical case. You do not
agree to the proposal because it is
too much money, or against your
principles.
“Your application is rejected by
the council and we have a right to
reject it. There is a petition against
it. You feel that the rejection is
unjust and decide to fight us.
“You have to take us to court and
I will tell you now that if you take
us to court you would win, but it
would take four or five months.
You would have to hire a barrister
and it would cost much more than
£lOO.
“You say you will pay the £lOO
and you get your approval. We
can’t force you to pay. I will just
have to go to my boys and say; ‘We
backed a loser,’ but don’t forget, my
boys have long memories, Mr.
Doney.
“We had a New Australian do that
to us about 12 months ago. He got
his approval and didn’t pay. I don’t
know the detail of it, but he seems
to have been in trouble ever since.
He is taking us to court next week,
but it cost him a lot more than £lOO,
possibly something like £3000.”
Doney said that later he paid
Erwin £lOO cash in a car.
Mr. Beavers said that the
principal witness was an aider
and abettor of the offence, but
he found him a good witness in
every respect, and he was pre-
pared to accept his evidence
without corroboration. In con-
victing Erwin he said: “It is
clear that this was only one of
a number of corrupt trans-
actions. They were carried out
over a period in pursuance of a
scheme of which Erwin was
organiser and head. Consider-
ing the iniquity of the scheme
and the effrontery with which it
was explained by the defendant
to Mr. Doney, I am of the
opinion that the penalty should
be higher than in the previous
case,”
Erwin’s counsel said his client
would appeal against the convic-
tions and fines.
Matea Forests
Like all other owners of pine-
plantations in New Zealand,
Matea Forests, Ltd., with h.q.
in Sydney, has been looking
hopefully for business from the
projects now in hand to make
pulp, newsprint, commercial
paper and timber. The Tasman
Pulp and Paper Co. is the main
prospective buyer, in view of
N.Z. Forest Products’ self-
sufficiency with 175,000 acres of
trees of its own.
Tasman is relying on the State
and private concerns for sup-
plies, and is now negotiating for
mtting-rights. Most of the logs
vill come from the Murupara
section of the half-million-acre
Kaingaroa State forest, but pri-
vate sources might have a share
as well.
Matea is one of the most im-
portant of these. Its handicap
is its position, right at the
southern end of the forest area.
Other bidders have a geographi-
cal advantage, which is easily
seen by a glance at the map of
the Bay of Plenty and the adja-
cent heart of the North Island.
If distance is the main factor
—and it must be one of the chief
ones when it comes to a matter
of costs —Matea is well back in
the race. However, Matea
directors have been figuring in
the negotiations. Although the
Matea stand of a little more than
30,000 acres of Firms radiata, at
a place called Pukahunui, looks
small alongside the vast State
forest, it could give a sustained
annual yield of 5,000,000 cubic
feet, and the State Forest Ser-
vice agrees that it should be an
integral part of the over-all
supply scheme. At the moment
it is a question of whether
Matea supplies could be used
economically in the early years
of pulp- and paper-production
and what terms could be agreed
on.
The talks, therefore, have been
exploratory so far. Tasman
directors feel they have plenty
of material in sight for the run-
ning-in stages and perhaps for
some years afterwards, which
places them in a fairly strong
buyer’s position, while Matea’s
owners would like to start cash-
ing-in on their assets, which
makes them keen to push the
negotiations.
Before Whakatane Board
Mills, Ltd., was formed in 1947
the Matea block was a part of
the assets of the former Whaka-
tane Paper Mills, Ltd., but since
then it has been on a care-and-
maintenance basis awaiting an
outlet. Whakatane Board Mills
seem to have enough forest of
their own retained as their share
of the original area to keep them
going in perpetuity. The two
cos. have a great deal in com-
mon, through their directorates
and shareholders, but in course
of time their interests will
diverge as the shares pass into
other hands.
Matea’s eight-shilling scrip
has been selling lately in N.Z. at
half-a-crown and in Australia
close to 35., without much life
in the market. Paid capital is
£768,115 in 1,920,287 shares.
Roma Facts and Fancies
“P. Mobile”: Associated Aus-
tralian Oilfields reported, on
October 23, that its No. 3 bore,
eight miles north from Roma,
had reached 3302 ft. and that the
“digging” was “very slow.” A
week later the depth was 3391 ft.
with “metal” (suggesting a fish-
ing job) in the hole. On
November 11 it was stated that
the well had entered oil-sand at
3489 ft. and had penetrated it
for 20ft. —a figure later attri-
buted to telegraphic error and
reduced to 2ft. The news caused
fluctuations in share prices—
particularly on the Melbourne
’Change. Electric logging was
claimed to show an oil-and-gas
sand between 3473 ft and 3490 ft.,
but a packer test at the 3488-
3492 ft. and 3533-3537 ft. hori-
zons was barren, due, it was
reported, to “lack of pressure in
the formation.” On November
18 the co. reported packer tests
resulting in “a showing of oil,”
The well is now being
deepened to reach the horizon
which, on packer test, “gave
encouraging results” in the ad-
jacent well. This refers, pre-
sumably, to the misnamed
“lift.” oil-sand encountered in
the RBO test No. 4in 1941,
where laminated sandstones and
shales, uncommercially petro-
liferous in the top 2ft., were
penetrated between 3497 ft. and
3508 ft.
Such a correlation between,
say, 3500 ft. in RBO4 and, say,
3550 ft. in AAO3 is, of course,
sheer guesswork.
Masonite ords. have slipped
back to 455., seller. This is an
exceptionally well managed con-
cern, which showed 14.2 p.c. on
its increased ord. capital last
year and maintained its ord. div.
at 12j p.c. Its production still
is short of demand, and the
building trade is now very active
again. Its enlarged plant should
soon assist turnover, and it is
still able to undersell its com-
petitors, At 455. the yield is
£5 11s. per cent, on a 12} p.c.
div. basis, and prospects are
healthy. The deferred shares
cloud the issue slightly, but are
only a problem when new issues
are in prospect.
♦ * * •
Bank of New South Wales
rights have hardened as closing-
date (December 15) draws
nearer. At £7 18s. sd. they
represent a paid-up price of
about £35 10s., against £35 15s.
for the old fully-paids. Either
type of purchase yields slightly
better than 5 p.c., with strength
in asset-backing and potential
earning-power. The 9 p.c. div.
is payable quarterly, and the £2O
shares are just as easy to buy and
sell as any ss, counter.


FOR
OVER
100
YEARS
TL I dW/
Xvnk^jlfjt
*
fiy.
'*4
The gift of a Lavina Is more
than a present ... It is a
companion to be treasured as
a lifelong reminder of the giver.
lAvm
17-Jewel led
Swiss Masterpieces
LW33.61.85
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
|qmuxM)
Steuiort
From
25/-
to
65/-
m
G-
GIVES
CHARACTER
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
WITH THE
MARVELLOUS NIB
CONWAY STEWART & CO, LTD, LONDON
AUCTIONS
DAIRY FARM
See under Lyaterfield—l 1 0 acres.
PAGE’S ESTATE AGENCY
Upper Ferntree Gully 430.
r 3
a
*
4.3
iX
“You can bank
on the ‘Wales’”
“There’s more to manufacturing than produc-
ing the goods. That’s why we bank at the
Wales’. At times, of course, they’ve carried
us financially over the waiting period between
buying the raw materials and selling the goods.
But their trade introduction service has also
been of great value to us in locating materials
on the one hand and markets on the other.”
#
You, too, are invited
to consult and use—
gd
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5325C
aaunxdfiu
I wear a
Rigifle*
Li
M
mm
mm
'v
V
11
/
YA
g*v«
It supports not only the
hernia, but also the abdominal
parts. Gives a feeling of
fitness and complete free-
dom and entirely replaces
the rigid local pressure
exercised by trusses.
THE RIGIFLEX BELT
Sold in Sydney exclusively by
W. H. SOUL PATTINSON & CO. LTD.
160 Pitt Street. Tel. BL 2684
Manufactured and distributed by
J. ROUSSEL of Paris Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
The third session of the pre-
sent Parliament has opened with
receptive attention and mutual
understanding very rarely seen
in the Chamber.
Sir Winston Churchill’s
speech on the Queen’s Address
became something more than
formal comment upon pending
legislation. He contrived to
uphold and enlarge the un-
written principles of Parlia-
mentary democracy while
dealing with ordinary, rather
mundane, business. (Already
commentators regard some of
his expressions as earmarked for
future text-books on constitu-
tional procedure.)
Upon the Opposition, who
showed that they love the man
and honor his presence however
much they fear his influence, the
effect of his plea for a broader
approach to national problems
was chastening and certainly not
in vain. Members know their
constituents are sick of the
wrangling, pettiness and cheap
doing-down among opposing
politicians, particularly in radio
and television programmes. And
they had to acknowledge the
simple truth, hitherto plain to
all but themselves, that “elec-
tions exist for the House of
Commons, and not the House of
Commons for elections.”
Whether Churchill can sustain
this wide and necessary com-
mand remains to be seen. But
he plainly shows that he is deter-
mined not to be inhibited by his
party’s slight majority, and also
that, while any possibility what-
ever of inter-party agreement
exists, his patience is infinite.
The current session really
amounts to a rounding-off of
the previous two and to dealing
with the comparatively minor
legislation that has been left over
after coping with the financial
mess of 1951 and carrying
through the two denationalising
measures of road transport and
the iron-and-steel trades. But it
does promise to be controversial,
even though the main items
have, against the world back-
ground, a rathet parochial look.
They are commercial television,
abolition of the Raw Cotton
Commission, transfer of atomic
energy from the Ministry of
Supply to a corporation, reform
of the House of Lords and
reconciliation of guaranteed
markets for farmers with a
“free” economy.
“Operation Rescue”
It is widely believed that,
when Churchill took office in
1951, he would have preferred to
have led a Coalition Govern-
ment. This was out of the ques-
tion. What he is now doing is to
act as if he were leading one.
All the new measures are such
as might be thrashed out in
coalition, and particularly is the
most controversial of them, the
new policy for housing.
Reform of the Rent Restric-
tion Acts means one thing only
—putting up rents. The Labor
Government fumbled the issue.
The Conservative Government,
being traditionally the landlords*
party, has jibbed at it. Neither
party dare face the problem
squarely because of the vagaries
of universal suffrage. One can
well imagine political organisers
quaking in advance at the
parrot-cry from their oppon-
ents: “Who put your rent up?
Answer me that! ” It is like giv-
ing a blood-transfusion from
your jugular-vein—possible but
suicidal unless conducted with
the utmost skill.
Mr, Harold Macmillan, Minis-
ter of Housing, lacks nothing
of drive, courage and political
acumen, and he has brought all
three qualities to bear in his
new project. In mere political
terms, to tackle the problem at
all is bold beyond foolhardi-
ness.
Yet it is of immense national
urgency. Property is decaying
because rents are uneconomical
and much too low to support
repairs. Landlords, many of
them worse off than their lucky
tenants, are conveying their
property to tramps and old
people. The cbntrolled rents fix
people, steadfastly unbudging,
to their homes, immobilising
labor and preventing the older
man and wife from vacating
their five-room house for a
smaller one. The strain upon
new marriages, with high rents
for furnished flats as the only
alternative to living with in-laws,
is of major social consequence.
That the Government has
done its best and most ingenious
is the general opinion (except
for Mr. Bevan, who, as usual, is
rather more abusive than realis-
tic). Its scheme to confine rent-
increases solely to provide for
repairs is limited to twice the
“statutory deduction” (i.e., the
gross value, less the rateable
value). This would mean, for a
low rent, no more than the price
of 20 cigarettes every week. And
the safeguards for the tenant are
as rigid and formidable as
security precautions at an atomic
establishment.
Slum-clearance is also to be
resumed, for the first time since
before the war. Local authori-
ties are to have power to take
over slum houses ultimately due
for demolition and first-aid them.
And encouragement is to be
given to the conversion of large
houses.
Estimates give 2,250,000
houses as more than 100 years
old, a further 2,000,000 between
60-100 years *old and from
800,000-1,000,000 as slums. It
would be tragic if such decay
were further aggravated by
political timidity,
“Down They Go!”
This is not a new parlor-game
on television but a true, if
irreverent, sub-title for the Old
Vic’s second excursion into the
nether world of Shakspeare.
Here are violence, treachery,
agony, decapitation, torture and
furious gangsterdom. A succes-
sion of deaths, unsavory and
unnatural, culminates in one
that, in full view, is plainly
lingering, gruesome and stark.
Yet the final outcome som&-
how contrives to establish that
right triumphs after all, that
patriotism is more than enough
and that the future is bright and
rosy. And the spectators, after
loud and insistent acclamation,
go away exhilarated and re-
freshed, better equipped, no
doubt, to conduct their peace-
able lives. Why, one may ask
dispassionately, are “comics”
considered so bad for juveniles
when grown-ups get such a
vicarious kick out of them?
For “King John,” like others
of the historical plays, is sheer
blood-and-thunder. The Royal
Courts of England and France
suggest a parley of rival gang-
sters and their henchmen ; the
Royal ladies set upon each other
with the outraged tongues and
personal venom of embittered
granddams in a tenement brawl.
Poor little Arthur, in a harrow-
ing scene a faire, with execu-
tioner, brazier, red-hot irons
and all, just misses having his
eyes put out, but never bats an
eyelid. Unlike the King, whose
blackness is unredeemed, Hubert
has a pure heart beneath his
sinister exterior, and stops short
of the cruel deed. Then even
he, poor fellow, is thwarted by
fate and Arthur’s untimely
death.
So far as plot and situation
are concerned, there’s little more
to the play. The rest is per-
formance. Again, the Vic. Com-
pany lets go with all its con-
siderable powers of uninhibited
acting. George Devine’s ’'pro-
duction is, perhaps, not quite
sure of itself. There are awk-
ward variations to the fast pace
and some moments of uninten-
tional silliness. The soldiers
with their bucket-helmets rather
suggest boys in cardboard frolic
on a Saturday morning; the
rigid set cramps the action and
makes the standard-bearer’s
constant withdrawals a - self-
conscious manoeuvre; and the
titters that inevitably greet a
decapitated head are bad for
dramatic illusion. It is unfor-
tunate that Fay Compton has
to play Constance’s tremendous
scene immediately after an in-
terval. One wonders how, in
other days when selflessness and
teamwork were less marked, Peg
Woffington and Mrs. Siddons
would have reacted to this
handicap.
Michael Hordern’s King John
is evil-infested weakness rather
than out-and-out wickedness,
but he does manage to convey
a sense of tragedy. Richard
Burton, with broad shoulders,
high forehead and drawn sword,
looks like any schoolboy’s hero.
As the Bastard he twinkles
through the intrigue and carn-
age with quiet assurance. And
that severed head he brings
0n.... An actor who can silence
titters by as near a thing to a
wink as makes no difference is
clearly something right out of
the ordinary.


X
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
Which of these TRUSTEE SERVICES
Do you know that the Union Trustee Company can act for
you in any of these matters —providing expert and permanent
service by experienced officers, at moderate cost?
As EXECUTOR of your estate.
As EXECUTOR of a will where the executor appointed
declines to act.
As ADMINISTRATOR of an estate where there is no will.
As TRUSTEE in place of a trustee who desires, for health
or other reasons, to relinquish his trust.
As TRUSTEE under a Deed of Settlement.
As ATTORNEY or AGENT for the management of property.
As TRUSTEE for the holders of debentures.
Call and arrange for a confidential discussion of your personal
needs, with an officer of the Company—or write for your
copy of the Booklet, “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees
will meet your Personal Needs?
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and Charlevillo
UT 16
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of Adelaide
IP SPECIALLY pleasing features of the
latest accounts of the 88-year-old
Bank of Adelaide, which does about nine-
tenths of its business in South Australia,
are the lift in the div. from 8 p.c. to
9 p.c, and continued improvement in net
earnings for the ninth year in succession.
Written after making “appropriate pro-
vision for taxation and all foreseeable
contingencies,” last term’s £124,974 (up
£14,630) of profit was the best showing
since 1930, when the shadow of coming
events interrupted a run of 10 p.c. divs. —
the rate dropped from 9 p.c. in 1930 to
4 p.c. in 1932, rose to 5 p.c. in 1938,
7 p.c. in 1948 and 8 p.c. in 1949 and
remained steady until the close of last
accounts:
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1944 .. 66,216 5 p.c. = 62,500 3,716 1,040,422
1945 .. 67,540 5 „ „ 62,500 5,040 1,045,462
1946 .. 69,585 5 „ „ 62,500 7,085 1,052,547
1947 . . 79,970 5| „ „ 71,875 8,095 1,060,642
From inner reserves, £250,000 .. 1,310,042
1948 . . 89,127 7 p.c. = 87,500 1,627 1,312,269
1949 .. 101,675 8 „ ~100,000 1,675 1,313,944
1950 .. 104,678 8 „ ~100,000 4,678 1,318,622
1951 .. 108,008 8 ~ ~100,000 8,008 1,326,630
1952 .. 110,344 8 „ ~100,000 10,344 1,336.974
1953 . . 124,974 9 „ ~112,500 12,474 1,349,447
Written off premises, etc., £30,000 .. 1,319,447
The £124,974 was a moderate 4.8 p.c.
on shareholders’ funds (capital and re-
serves combined), or a wink under 10 p.c.
on the £1,250,000 of share capital alone
as -against 8.8, 8.6, 8.3, 8.1 and 7.1 p.c.
back to 1948, The £12,474 that remained
after payment of the 9 p.c. div,, and
£17,526 besides, making £30,000 in all,
was openly written off the book-
value of premises, etc., and so
tossed into inner reserves, of which tidy
sums are known to be kept in other
cupboards, too. The visible accumu-
lation at September 30 last was £1,319,447,
or £69,447 more than paid capital, thus
giving the f.-p. £1 shares a net tangible
backing of 41s. Id. in the books.
The market sees no cloud in the co.’s
sky and prices the scrip at 38s. 6d. (335. 6d.
a year ago) to return 4.6 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
div., which is the rate the board expects
to maintain in the future, subject, of
course, to exceptional and unforeseen
developments
Contributing factors to the improve-
ment in last term’s declared net result were
substantial relief from Government bleed-
ing (abolition of Federal land-tax and
cut in the rate of co.-tax), lift in the
overdraft rate from 4i p.c to 5 p.c.
(maximum) in August, 1952, continued
growth in advances, better earnings on
exchange account in the export market
(thanks largely to a bigger wool cheque)
and increase in the volume of low-
interest-bearing liquids. Turnover on
account of imports was lighter, following
legislative restrictions, which enabled most
traders to work down swollen inventories
without mishap. Working exes, con-
tinued to climb. Profit from actual
banking operations appears to have
been slender, the bulk of net earnings
continuing to come from the investment
basket.
The bigger export income and revival
of trade activity generally as the year
advanced sent the co.’s deposits up
£5,403,333, advances up £1,645,998 and
low-interest-bearing liquid assets up
£4,309,964:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,250,000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Notes .. .. 6,489 6.489 6,489
Deposits, etc. .. 32,181,634 29,446,922 34,850,255
Due other banks .. 744,932 1,035,304 1,650,705
Final div. .. 50,000 50,000 62,500
Liquids .. .. 25,125,642 21,025,984 25,335,948
Advances .. .. 9,770,814 11,419,049 13,065,047
Premises, etc. .. 523,240 567,722 573,663
Other assets .. 139,990 112,933 164,739
Liquids include £7,268,000 (up £2,050,000)
frozen on special account with the central
bank at 10s. p.c. interest, £3,250,000
(down £1,750,000) of 1 p.c. Treasury
bills, and £3,341,074 (up £1,202,769) of
Government securities carrying various
rates of interest.
When the books closed liquids
amounted to 69.4 p.c. of liabili-
ties to the public and advances to only
37.5 p.c. of deposits. From the banking
point of view it is a very strong position.
Given reasonably stable economic con-
ditions, and with wage and interest rates
as they are, any improvement in the
ratio of advances to deposits should help
put a little stiffening into net earnings.
The Government’s new banking legis-
lation, while leaving the central bank with
wide powers for overall control of
monetary policy, has strengthened the
position of the private trading banks by
giving them more elbow-room in the
field of advances, investments, etc,, and
by placing the general banking division
of the Commonwealth Bank on a more
competitive footing, all of which is as
it should be.
Weakest spot in the economic set-up
is the high-cost structure in secondary
industries, which has been, and still
is, obscured by the prosperity of
the primary industries. Unless the
position can b© corrected before the
ebb-tide sets in, unemployment of both
productive capacity and labor, with a
consequent jolt to our standard of living,
is a likely consequence.
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
/"\NE of the biggest and richest mines
at the Barrier (N.S.W.), which ranks
high among the world’s silver-lead-zinc
fields, the North has an efficient gravity-
cwm-flotation plant and an able team of
engineers and metallurgists. Moreover,
developments at the northern end of
the leases have disclosed what is virtu-
ally a new mine, to service which a new
haulage shaft (down 1020 ft. at end Oct.
last) and a new ventilation shaft (down
1630 ft.) are being sunk. The target is
the ore-body around the 3070 ft. level,
which is not expected to be reached
before mid-1955.
Meanwhile, the capital expenditure in-
volved, including ancillary equipment,
will be a limiting factor so far as dividends
are concerned. Total cost of the pro-
gramme is put at about £4,500,000, of
which some £2,500,000 had been spent to
June 30 last, and a further £1,050,000 was
set aside out of last term’s earnings to
meet the current year’s outlay on new
plant and development.
Subject to what happens in con-
nection with metal prices and other
factors outside the management’s control,
the co. looks like being able to win
good profits ifor many years to
come. For this and other reasons its
f -p. ss. shares rank high among the sound
mining investments in the market. At
71s. 6d. (745. 6d. a year ago) the scrip
gives an immediate gross return of only
6.3 p.c. on a 90 p.c. div. basis.
The contraction of £966,113 in profit
for the year to June 30 last was due
mainly to the fall in metal prices and a
drop in volume of lead sold. The effects
were partly offset by a better return from
investments (up £66,116), decline in lead-
bonus paid to employees, and reduction
of £1,576,000 in' provision for taxation
and royalties (£349,000) following the
recent cut in co.-tax:
Revenue 1962. 1953.
Mine products £8,475,136
Investments .. •• 343,965 410,081
£8,819,101 £6,333,706
Expenditure—
Mine 4,166,907 4,231,524
P. and 1. items •. 2,086,023 502,124
£6,252,930 £4,733,648
Net profit .. .. £2,566,171 £1,600,058
Allowance for depreciation was £lOO,OOO,
same as tor previous year. The £1,600,058
of profit claimed was equal to 228.5 p.c.
on the £700,000 of paid capital as against
366.6, 350 and 211 p.c. for the three
preceding terms. The div, was lowered
from 170 p.c. to 90 p.c., making average
distribution over the last seven years
132 p.c. Chief reason for the deep cut
in the div. was the provision for capital
expenditure, already referred to.
For the year to June 30 last the average
weekly-rate of basic wage, plus war-
loading, at Broken Hill was £l2 155., and
lead bonus £l2 145., a total of £25 9s.
Corresponding figures for the previous
year were £ll 4s. 7d., £l7 2s. 6d. and
£2B 7s. Id. respectively.
The fall in overseas lead and' zinc
prices followed cessation of Government
bulk-buying in U.K. and return of the
metals to the open market —lead in
Aug., 1952, and zinc at beginning of
1953:
( Average Price ,
Lead. Zinc.
£S. £S.
Year to 30/6/’5l .. 135 18 0 148 13 11
Year to 30/6/’52 . . 167 10 11 183 14 3
Year to 30/6/’SS .. 102 0 7 98 5 10
Four months to 31/10/’53 94 9 5 72 6 2
In Australia control of both metals —■
fixed price for each was lifted from £A6S
to £A9S per ton in Sept., 1952—ceased
on April 17 last. The consequent change
in method of marketing fesulted in a
temporary delay in sales of lead, un-
realised stocks of which have been taken
into account at only £AI2 10s. per ton.
The co. treated 351,749 tons (up 13,777
tons) of slightly richer crudes, assaying
13.7 p.c. lead, 7.20 z. silver and 11.0 p.c.
zinc, for the following concentrates;
f Assay
Concentrates:— Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Lead— Tons. p.c. oz, p.c.
1952 .. 59.696 71.7 34.3 4.8
1953 .. 65,705 71.1 35.5 5.2
Zinc—
-1952 ~ 59,327 O.f 1.4 51.0
1953 .. 66,308 0.8 1.5 50.6
More oxidised-ore in the mill feed was
responsible for the slight drop in grade
of concentrates. Metal recoveries were
97.2 p.c. of the lead and 91.9 p.c. of the
silver in the lead concentrates and 87.0 p.c.
of the zinc in the zinc concentrates. In
addition 145,341 tons of low-grade
residues were treated.
Measured ore reserves were put at
4,702,000 tons; but that does not include
the large probable tonnage of high-grade
ore disclosed by the diamond-drill at the
northern end of the leases.
Despite heavy expenditure on plant,
equipment, shaft-sinking, etc., the shrink-
age in the more-or-less liquid surplus was
only £302,329:
1952. 1958.
Shares in other cos £2,883.367 £3,111,726
Stores 794,645 749,617
Concentrates on hand.. .. 162,472 1,074,769
Debtors .... .. 1,019,804 152,227
Cash, etc. .. .. .. 2,581,753 515,461
Liquid assets . . .-. .. £7,442,041 £5,603,790
Less liabilities* .. .. 8,316,074 1,780,152
Liquid surplus .. .. £4,125,967 £3,823,638
* Includes provision for taxation, final div., etc..
The holding of cash, etc. (down
£2,066,302) should be strengthened as the
accumulation of concentrates (up
£912,297) is worked down. Shareholdings
(up £228,359) are mostly in well-estab-
lished and expanding non-ferrous metal
and other manufacturing concerns.
The market for the scrip largely follows
the market for the metals, in which the
level of industrial activity in U.S. is the
dominant factor at the moment. Prices
look like holding around present levels
for the short-run. Long-term prospects
are sound, says chairman M. H. Baillieu;
but that doesn’t mean that metal prices
won’t fluctuate.
A. G. Healing, Ltd.
■pEATURES which catch the eye in the
accounts of this big manufacturing,
importing and distributing organisation,
which has Commonwealth-wide connec-
tions, are the rapid and profitable post-
war growth of the business, which has
been financed largely by additions to the
floating debt and from surplus earnings
and partly by introduction of fresh share-
capital. Since 1946 £1,349,115 has been
added to the outside debt (excluding pro-
vision for taxation), £909,824 to reserves
and £517,500 to share capital, of which
the last £325,000 was gathered early in
the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts. Over the seven-year period
profits shot up from £76,443 to a peak of
£273,968 in 1951 and eased to £139,471
last term, while the div. climbed from
10 p.c. to 15 p.c. in 1950 and has re-
mained steady since.
Manufacture, centred chiefly in Mel-
bourne, includes bicycles (the line on
which the business grew up), radios,
washing - machines, vacuum - cleaners,
batteries, etc. On the distributing side
the co. holds some valuable local and
overseas agencies covering a wide range
of components in the motor, refrigeration,
wireless and other household-electrical-
goods trades.
To date the agency and wholesale-
distributing sections of the business have
been the best contributors to profits,
which have moved in this way since
1-948;
A. G. Healing and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends ,
, Pref. \ Ord. To Re- Ee-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 13J p.c. serves, senes.*
& & £>&£,£,
1948.. 121,439 5984 3012 26,000 86,443 443,696
To staff fund, £14,161 .. ~ 429,535
Share premiums, £96,176 .. ~ 525,711
Unexplained addition res., £14,775.. 640,486
1949.. 124,367 5984 3012 34,999 80,372 620,858
To staff fund, £11,161 .. .. 609,697
Unexplained addition res., £4159 .. 623,856
15 p.c.
1950.. 185,876 5984 3012 56,185120,695 744,551
To staff fund, £14,161 .. .. 730,390
Unexplained additions, £24,526 .. 764,916
1951.. 273,968 5984 3012 58,125 206,847 961,768
To staff fund, £15,411 .. .. 946,852
Proceeds sale assets, £12,946 ..959,298
Unexplained reductions, £5946 .. 953,352
1952.. 208,758 5984 3012 58,125 141,637 1,094,989
To staff fund, £12,501 .. .. 1,082,488
Intangibles appear, £8325 .. .. 1,074,163
Profit sale assets, £4296 .. .. 1,078,459
Unexplained additions, £6346 .. 1,084,405
1953.. 139,471 5984 3012 106,875 23,600 1,108,405
To staff fund, £13,019 .. ..1,095,386
* After deducting intangibles, now £7647.
The sticky trading conditions which pre-
vailed during the second half of the 1952
term continued during the first half of
the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, for which little, if any, profit
was earned, the chairman says. But
sales picked up rapidly during the second
half, following the easing of import re-
structions, growth in national income and
general improvement in the whole
economic set-up.
For the full year turnover (£5,250,000)
was 15.5 p.c. lower than the previous
term; and more competitive trading kept
margins on some lines narrow. So, despite
a big saving of £llO,OOO in tax provision
(£72,300), thanks mainly to the cut in
co.-tax rates, and after setting aside
£46,125 (up £2517) for depreciation, the
net result was £69,287 short of the 1952
figure at £139,471 ; and there was more
capital to feed. After paying the pref.
divs. (£8996), the balance of the year’s
profit was thus 18.3 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 51.5, 68.3, 47.2, 43.7, 57.6 and
50.1 p.c. back to 1947. The div. was
kept at 15 p.c., the board being satisfied
with the outlook.
The lushness of the equity-profit ratios
just mentioned owes much to the size
of reserves—l3o p.c. of paid capital at
June 30 last as against 211 p.c. a year
earlier. On capital and reserves com-
bined, last term’s profit was only 7.2 p.c.
as against 13 p.c. for the previous year.
Since the period of scarcities appears to


Jkuffi
m
: a
The oldest-known fragment of writing in the
world is the Presse Papyrus in the municipal library
at Istanbul. And the first sentence in this 6000-year
link with antiquity reads: “Times are not what they
used to be. Everyone wants to write a book and
children are no longer obedient to their parents.”
When that met my eye in an article on the ever-
growing demand for paper on which to translate
thoughts into words, it occurred to me that even
after sixty times a hundred years the world is still
very much the same. — except that now we have
Christianity.
Life has to be “lived” by all men in their time.
It has to be lived not for just an individual’s span
in years, but for generations. Others will carry it
on. And to the extent to which we mould the future
for them and influence their course, so we can claim
a part in the making of what comes after.
That’s the point I’ve been striving to make under
this heading of “Faith in the Future.’* We have to
think of Australia not in terms of today alone. We
have to build beyond; to think and act ahead, and
be not daunted by problems that have beset the
human race since Adam.
The great paradox of our truly marvellous age
is that, with scientific advances that would have been
thought impossible as late as the turn of the 20th
century, Man still has not solved the simple things
of serene universal living, such as those that worried
the man who scrawled on the Papyrus.
As I see it, there is no formula, no short-cut to
the ending of this world’s troubles except by applying
Christian principles. And one of the rudiments of
that, for Australians, is the production of surpluses
of food for millions in the world who hunger for
it not tomorrow, next year, or next century, but
today.
kuv m
SANDERS
W 5
Correspondence. Invoices.'*
statements, etc.. Died in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
(he end of each n.onth —or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ink
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agcm-a —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH ... ...Docket Book Co, (Auat)
Priee* ind far-
ther informstiOß
«POB tppllutlOD
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt,
Public Notice
LAKE VIEW AND STAR,
LIMITED
{lncorporated in England )
FINAL DIVIDEND No. 77
NOTICE is hereby given that the Directors
have decided to recommend at the Annual
General Meeting of the Company to be
held on December 15, 1953, payment of a
Final Dividend of One Shilling and Six
Pence per share sterling in respect of the
year ended June 30, 1953, less United
Kingdom Income Tax at Nine Shillings in
the £1 (Eight Decimal Point One Pence
per share) the net amount of Dividend
being Nine Decimal Point Nine Pence per
share sterling.
This Dividend makes a total distribution
of Two Shillings and Threepence per share
sterling for the year ended June 30, 1953.
Subject to confirmation' at the Annual
General Meeting, the Dividend will be paid
on December 19, 1953, to all Shareholders
registered on the books of the Company
at the close of business on November 12,
1953.
The Transfer Books will be closed
from November 13-16, 1953, both days
inclusive.
The Australian equivalent of Dividend
will be calculated at the rate of Ex-
change ruling on November 12, 1953.
For LAKE VIEW & STAR, LIMITED,
R. J. AQNEW, Attorney.
Fimiston, November 9, 1953.
Wanted to Sell
TRACKSON SWING CRANE
Mounted International T. 9 Crawler Tractor.
Swing 300 degrees. Power control. Press
button starting. IDEAL PIPE LAYER.
Price, £3500. Al condition.
BULLDOZER
D. 4 Caterpillar with hyd. operated Tilt
Dozer complete with Hyster Logging
Winch. Good condition. Price, £2250.
L. & K. McRAE, 281 Collins St., Mel-
bourne. Phones: Cent. 1584, 4890, 3472.
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 3025 AND BW 1078
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
v>
gin Ensuring
to ten
of poiitoill
It is fashionable and sensible
this year to give gifts that are
practical. Definitely there are
few gifts more useful than a
Swan Pen and none that is more
gladly received.
Swan pens have a reputation for
quality and reliability that goes
a long way back. Today’s
models are worthy upholders of
this fine tradition.
There is a wide range of attractive
Swan models with nibs to suit every
style of writing.
PENS
100 YEARS OF GOOD WRITING
df
MABIE, TODD & CO. (AUSTRALIA)
PTY. LTD., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
J 638
be on the way out, it might be-
come difficult to improve on last
term’s ratio of profit to share-
holders’ funds during the years
ahead. However, sales for the
first four months of the current
term are at a record level, which
augurs well for the showing at
next balance. Nevertheless,
maintenance of the 15 p.c. div.
cannot be taken as assured for
the long-run.
The £325,000 of fresh share-
capital and reduction of £473,829
in stocks (in at the lower of cost
or replacement value) enabled
the overdraft to be reduced by
£316,808 and the amount coming
to sundry creditors by £213,755,
thus bringing the financial
framework into better balance:
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
, 1951. 1952 1953.
Paid capital £512,500 £512,500 £837,500
Overdraft .. 713,261 1,234,221 917,413
Mortgages .. 186.370 310,470 311,250
Sundry
creditors.. .666,549 777.986 564,231
Tax provision 321,929 494,108 291,240
Provident
T ,. fu ? d ,. •• 6,411 18,936 6,088
Final divs.. . 62.623 62,623 111,373
Freehold and
leasehold.. 449.800 575,269 639,042
Plant, etc... 189,350 245,463 266,207
Stocks 1,613.767 2,587,269 2,113,440
Book debts 1,152,911 1.075,566 1,105,709
Investments ' '
and cash. . 9,167 9,766 10,083
The year’s additions to freeholds
Sn and P lant ( U P
£20,744) reflect a policy of de-
centralisation by extension to
the outer suburbs of capital cities
and to country centres. The
year’s improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£1,027,637)
was £248,380. When the books
closed there was over 18s. of out-
side money in the business for
every £1 belonging to share-
holders as against 295.-odd a
year earlier.
At 13s. 9d. (11s. a year ago)
the f.-p. ss. ords. return 5.4 p.c.
on a 15 p.c. div. basis. The £1
8 p.c. and 6 p.c. prefs. at 28s. 6d.
and 21s. 3d. respectively each
yield 5.6 p.c. Net tangible cover
is £l5 9s. 3d. prefs. (both lots
rank equally for capital) and
13s. sd. ords.
Finney, Isles & Co. (Bris.)
WELL-HANDLED and
soundly-shod financially,
Finneys is one of Brisbane’s
biggest and most fashionable
department stores, which is in
the heart of the city’s busiest
trading centre. The market,
however, is often inclined to
give more weight to its immedi-
ate hopes and fears than to
reasoned analysis; its bid for
the £1 shares dropped from 40s.
in January, 1952, to 30s. in the
following October, and has
since recovered to 38s. 6d. At
38s. 6d. the yield is a satisfac-
tory 6.5 p.c. on a 12i p.c. dis-
tribution. Net assets cover
(book-value) is 455. 7d, a share.
In 1952 the benefits of ex-
panding turnover were no
longer able to mask the effects
of reduced gross margins and
rising costs, as they had done
in the previous five years or so.
Growing consumer-resistance
and the consequent switch from
a sellers’ to a buyers’ market
brought sharper competition;
and “it was considered prudent
to clear out all goods which had
a deflated value,” which was
done “at very reduced prices,”
So exes, swallowed the gain in
gross profit and a lot more
besides, and net profit tumbled
to a 20-year low of £29,718;
To Be- Ke-
July, Profit. Dividends, serves, serves.
1944.. 945 10°’= 89,253 26,692 221,149
1945.. 78.453 10 39,883 38,570 259,719
Maintenance res. down £2568 257,151
1946.. 10 = 40,206 42,084 299,235
Maintenance res. down £1782 297,453
1947.. 10 = 40,206 33,796 331,249
Maintenance res. down £1925 329,324
1948.. 88.377 10 =40,206 43,171 372,495
To staff fund, £5000.. .. 367,495
Maintenance res. down £9605 357,890
1949.. 10 = 40,206 42,113 400,003
Maintenance res. down £2988 397,016
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 392,015
1950.. = 50,259 40,801 432,816
Maintenance res. down £1132 431,684
To staff fund, £5000.. .. 420,684
1951 113,021 12J = 51,853 61,668 488,352
1952.. 10 ~ 45,945 472,127
Profit sale freehold, £81,914.. 554,041
1953.. 80.342 = 56,515 23,828 577,868
Turnover last term showed an
increase, and gross profit rose
by £17,385. But mainly respon-
sible for the better showing was
the £34,764 reduction in exes.,
which in the previous accounts
possibly included something for
stock-depreciation:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Gross profit £589,939 £616,439 £633,824
Exes. .. 382.449 532,403 497,639
Depreciation.. 147059 22,781 20,146
Tax .. 79,510 31,537 35,697
Net profit.. 113,021 29,718 80,342
After charging £2635 less for
depreciation, and only £4160
more for tax, thanks to Budget
concessions, the board wrote net
profit at £80,342, equal to
17,8 p.c. on capital, as against
6.5, 27.5, 22.6 and 20.4 p.c.
back to 1949, The 2 % p.c. bonus
paid in 1950 and 1951 was re-
stored to the distribution, mak-
ing a total of 12i p.c., which
absorbed £56,515, The £23,828
that remained, and £81,914 capi-
tal profit on sale of the
“Finney’s Corner” freehold to
the Commonwealth Bank, lifted
reserves to £577,868, which was
£125,744 higher than paid capi-
tal. So the two combined need
turn in only 5.5 p.c. to cover
12£ p.c. on capital alone,
A remarkable improvement
in liquidity, due to the property
sale, is the feature of balance-
sheet movements;
1951. 1952. 1953.
Capital .. 452,124 452,124 452,124
Overdraft .. 67,088 153,744
Creditors, etc... 260,313 105,749 178,967
Tax reserve .. 86,570 43,189 54,201
Final div. .. 31,250 22,606 33,909
Property, plant,
etc 634,941 653,805 567,320
Stock .. 667,527 497,061 511,106
Book debts .. 84,888 95,169 83,050
Investments,
cash. etc. .. 3,340 3,502 135,593
Proceeds of the sale, surplus
profits, £95,533 added to current
commitments, and a reduction
of £12,119 in debtors’ balances,
were used to wipe off the over-
draft (£153,744 at last balance),
spend £35,004 net on improver
ments to the store, add £14,045
to stocks and £132,091 to the
holding of cash. Government
bonds, etc. Increase in the
more-or-less liquid surplus
(£462,672) was £192,228. Main
item of expenditure on fixed
assets was the installation of
escalators, and the management
is planning many more im-
provements which should
eventually assist earnings.
As for the current term, high
levels of export prices and em-
ployment, liberal tax-reductions
and steadier costs suggest better
net earnings.
Golden Plateau, N.L.
Operating at Cracow (Q.),
Golden Plateau (paid capital
£113,750 in 3s. 4d. shares) has
never been a really big producer,
nor have ore reserves run more
than a few years ahead of the
mill. Profits, therefore, have
fluctuated with variations in the
grade of mill-feed as develop-
ment proceeded, and with the
level of costs, which more than
doubled over the last four years.
The price of the yellow metal
remains fixed by statute, except
in the so-called free market,
where, the premium has now
narrowed to insignificant pro-
portions.
A flow of 6d. divs. was inter-
rupted in 1951, when a loss of
£6OOB showed up, following a
drop in grade, which has since
shown marked improvement,
thanks to developments in the
North lode and Sunrise sections,
to the benefit of both net earn-
ings and distributions:—
Ore Gold, Silver, Div.
Crushed, Fine Fine Profit. £
Tons. Oz. Oz. £ (fid.)
'50.. 24,355 5,480 12,725 13,184 21,000
Loss.
’51.. 22,894 4,329 4,455 6,008 Nil
Profit. (fid.)
’52..20,486 9,274 11,014 64.911 21,000
(1/3)
’53..23,181 11,384 12,122 79,472 52,575
Last term average value of the
feed was 10.49dwt. per ton as
against 9.05dwt., 4.2Bdwt. and
s.o7dwt. back to 1950. So, with
the help of a slightly bigger ton-
nage and better recovery (93.6
p.c.), the co. was able to show
£14,561 more profit, despite a
rise of 10s. 6d. in operating costs
(945. per ton). The £79,472 of
profit was equal to Is. 10.6 d. per
share, and the div. was lifted
from 6d. to Is. 3d. a share.
Another Is, a share is to be sent
out on December 4.
At June 30 last measured ore
reserves were conservatively
figured at 78,100 tons averaging
9.3dwt. Further encouraging de-
velopments have been met with
but enough work has not yet
been done to give a definite esti-
mate of values. However it all
augurs well for payment of
satisfactory divs. over the next
few years,
When the books closed
current assets totalled £115,006
a nd current liabilities £9356.
The scrip, which had dropped to
6s. 2d. in the market during
1952, recently fetched 16s. 6d.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
No one could say that Sydney is look-
ing her best at the moment. An un-
usually large number of streets seem to
be dug up and barricaded-off and huge
sheets of sacking shroud many buildings,
including parts of the G.P.O. Doubtless
the city will emerge rejuvenated later,
like a beauty from a mud-bath, but it’s
rather depressing at the, present stage.
The weather did nothing to help during
the week, lingering in the nineties most
of the time, and, although it was mostly
a dry heat, people would keep saying it
wasn’t the heat it was the humidity, and
this was doubly dispiriting.
There was a tornado promised for one
evening, causing people to rush home,
hustle the children indoors and more-
or-less batten-down the hatches. They
were quite annoyed When all that arrived
was a debilitated southerly at midnight,
and there were some angry comments in
the papers next day, with the Weather
Bureau denying all responsibility. Not
that it was their fault. They don’t keep
tornadoes in their filing-cabinets to be
released on demand. Still, many people,
disappointed of their tornado, felt that
there had been laxness somewhere.
For this Letter the southerly was
enough, remembering childhood when
this wind was one of the most exciting
things in the world. In those days (we’re
going back some time now) a flag used
to fly dramatically from the top of the
G.P.O. to herald the southerly, and
although one was not often in a posi-
tion to see this, there was always the
announcer on the radio, or wireless as it
was called then. The child-mind visual-
ised the southerly as a man in a Roman
chariot drawn by 12 white horses, four
abreast and spread out fanwise. He was
something like Phoebus, but he and the
whole equipage were frosty-white and
gleaming. The horses raced through the
air at lightning speed up the south coast,
and the announcer sat with a powerful
telescope to his eye reporting their pro-
gress. “Now they’re at Wollongong,”
“Now at Bulli,” etc. When they got to
Sutherland the suspense was awful, the
clock was watched, the minutes counted,
then suddenly “Slam!” went the back-
door and the southerly-buster had
arrived, pouring coolness and refresh-
ment into the house. Then the children
would rush into the garden, to peer up
through the waving gum-trees and the
old pine in the hope of catching a
glimpse of the shining cavalcade. Surely
no tornado could equal all that wonder
and delight.
☆ ☆ ☆
A lecture on job-simplification in rela-
tion to productivity wouldn’t normally be
an irresistible magnet for this Letter, but
the one advertised by the Sydney Division
of the Australian Institute of Business
Management last week offered as lecturer
Dr. Lillian Gilbreth, the famous American
efficiency expert, known the world over,
even to non-businesslike people, as the
mother of the 12 children in the book
Cheaper by the Dozen. Dr. Gilbreth
has six sons and six daughters, and of her
26 grandchildren 13 are boys and 13
girls, which seems very, very good manage-
ment, indeed.
This Letter cannot really say that she
learned very much from the lecture, which
was very fluent and high-sounding, but
she did learn that when you are analysing
a job you ask yourself a series of in-
terrogative adverbs: how, when, where
or why a thing is done, and then you
come to the “who?” Dr. Gilbreth, a
charming and vital person, received an
ovation from the keen-looking business
types and lively-eyed career-girls who
made up the large audience, and they all
seemed very well pleased with the lecture,
so that’s the main thing.
* * ☆
Would it not be a good idea if those of
us who budget for our Christmas expendi-
ture were to take a percentage of the
sum we intend to spend and give it to
some charitable appeal? Even if it were
only 5 p.c., it would bring the spirit of
Christmas into our plans more truly than
if we gave presents only to those we
love personally, those who have given
us presents or those who might give us
presents. Here are a couple of charities
suitable to start with, and there will be
a couple more next week.
The Smith Family’s Christmas Appeal
is made specifically for children and old-
age pensioners, people who are so helpless,
the very old, the very young. Donations
can be sent to The Smith Family Christ-
mas Appeal, 12 Bridge-street, Sydney.
The Queen’s Jubilee Fund gives aid to
distressed women and girls in N.S.W.,
regardless of creed, class or nationality.
It is among Sydney’s oldest charitable
funds, having been established in 1887
in honor of Queen Victoria’s Jubilee, but
this is the first time for 56 years that it
has made a public appeal for money. It
has done splendid work quietly for over
half a century and hopes that in this,
“the Queen’s Year,” it will find many
new subscribers and friends. Donations
for this fund should be sent to “The
Queen’s Jubilee Fund,” 12 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney.
Sue Gidley King, who is the daughter
of Mrs. C. L. King, of Edgecliff, and Mr.
G. C. E. King, of Rushcutter Bay,
recently announced her engagement to
Bruce Ponder, son of the late Mr. S. M.
Ponder and Mrs. A. H. Ward, of Den-
man (N.S.W.). Sue is a direct descendant
of Governor King, one of the State’s
earliest Governors, and also of the well-
known Gidley King family of Goonoo
Goonoo {N.S.W.). Hugh Spencer photo.
This year’s winner of the Sydney de
Vries Memorial Scholarship is Ann
Carter, who sang at the reunion party
given by Miss Margaret Gillespie during
the week at the Royal Empire Society’s
rooms. The scholarship, which is awarded
for the one showing the greatest
promise of becoming an operatic singer,
entitles the holder to one year’s tuition
at the Sydney Conservatorium. Dr.
Bainton, one of the judges this year, was
guest-of-honor with Mrs. Bainton at the
party, and congratulated not only the
winner but the other artists of the after-
noon, especially for their singing of
oratorio. John Hudson’s singing of “It
Is Enough” from “Elijah” by Mendels-
sohn was particularly beautiful. The
other singers were Archie Hamilton and
Gwenda Holloway. Gwyn Aldis was
accompanist.
☆ ☆ -ft ",
A cocktail-party with a difference is due
tomorrow (Thursday) at the Royal Motor
Yacht Club, Rose Bay, in aid of the
National Opera Company. It gets going
at 5 p.m. and will feature an auction of
antiques, jewellery and miscellaneous
articles, starting at about 5.45. Tickets
are half a guinea each and if the fascina-
tion of the auctioneering atmosphere
should cost one a little more, it’s all for
an excellent cause.
☆ ☆ ☆
Another engagement of interest is that
of Pamela “Biddie” Milles, only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. H. G. L. Milles, of
Devonport, Tasmania, to David Camp-
bell, only son of Mr. and Mrs. H. O.
Campbell, of Rogan’s Hill (N.S.W.) At
a late-afternoon celebration-party given
by Mrs. Margaret Watts at her flat in
Greenknowe-avenue, Potts Point, Mr.
and Mrs. Campbell were present with
Miss Anne Campbell, Dr. and Mrs. J. H.
Thorp, Mr. and Mrs, A. M. Stephens,
Mr. and Mrs. K. K. Stringer, Mr. and
Mrs. Ken Hendy, Miss Elsie Needham,
Miss Phyllis Nisbet, Josephine Florak
and Hilda Rado. The wedding is to
take place in Devonport in February.
MELBOURNE
With the main topic of conversation
centred around the Royal Tour, this Letter
was thrilled when handed an envelope
bearing the Royal Cipher and Crest,
The letter, written from Buckingham
Palace, was from Lieut.-Commander
Michael Parker, Equerry to the Duke of
Edinburgh. In it he wrote “We are all
in the throes of packing and making
last-minute arrangements. I don’t think
I have ever known a busier time, except
perhaps over the preparations for the
Coronation. But everyone is extremely
fit and looking forward with consider-
able excitement to the programme ahead.”
Following a phone-call from her
London agent, who said he had a film job
lined up for her, Lieut.-Commander
Parker’s sister Mary spent all night
packing with her mother’s help and next
day she flew to London. She will just
have time to see her brother before he
leaves on the first stage of the Royal
Tour. A film made in Australia in which
Mary appeared was, it seems, seen in
London by Sir Michael Balcon. Mary
also hopes to do stage work. She has
appeared in Melbourne with the Little
Theatre and was juvenile lead with Edwin
Styles in “The White Sheep of the
Family.”
☆ ☆ ☆
While lighting the eight candles on the
birthday cake of the Women’s Group
of the Australian-American Association,
Sir John Latham suggested the group
should begin a sinking-fund for candles,
for he anticipated that it would meet
for a great number of years. Mrs. John
Mackie, of Montreal, cut the cake. Presi-
dent of the group, Mrs. R. G. Casey,
introduced the guest-speaker, Mr. C.
who spoke on Gemology.
Two popular American women return-
ing home said their farewells. They are
Mrs. David Cheadle and Mrs. O. Voss.
Other members present were Mrs. J. D.
Jacobs, Mrs. James Clarke, Mrs. John
Middleton, Mrs. Frank Callahan, Mrs.
George Uhrich, Mrs. Wallace Mitchell
and Mrs. Keith Rigg.
Mrs. Harold Wcotton, wife of Met
[?]urne’s Town Clerk, will be in the
trial party at the ball to be given by
the City Council in the Exhibition build-
ing during the Royal Tour. Mrs. Wootton l
who is a member of the committee which
runs the City Creche, has a son and
daughter and five grandchildren. Photo
by John Warlow.
The Arts and Crafts exhibition in the
Lower Town Hall was opened by Mrs.
W. A, Irwin, wife of the Canadian High
Commissioner. Among the very beautiful
samples of weaving were pieces done by
children of the Lake Tyers aborigine
settlement. Beaten silverware, pottery
and hand-made toys were also greatly
admired. Society members Rachel Grieve
and Aurora Thompson showed samples
of their weaving. Mrs. M. Stuart had
taken the stalks of lavender and mads
them into table-mats, work-baskets and
an attractive coolie-hat.
A printing-press was seen in action
turning-out Christmas-cards, while other
cards on view had been hand-painted.
Brisk business was done by one member
taking orders for silver charms in the
shape of Australian birds and animals.
Lady Dixon; is president of the Arts and
Crafts Society. Present also were Mrs.
Clarence Marriott, vice-president; Mrs.
Roy Blake, wife of the Canadian Trade
Secretary ; and Mrs. J. K. Lennon, whose
husband is president of the Canadian
Club,
There were only four women present at
the cocktail-party given at Menzies’ for
Dr. Lillian Gilbreth, who wore a tur-
quoise black-patterned silk frock and
small black velvet halo-hat. The others
were Mrs. Walter D. Scott, Mrs. C. M.
Kennedy, of Sydney, and Mrs. Geoffrey
Peterson. During her flying visit to
Melbourne Dr. Gilbreth has spoken at
the University, attended a luncheon at
the Royale Ballroom, and opened a fete.
Dr. Gilbreth will be guest-speaker at
the Thanksgiving luncheon arranged by
the Australian-American Association for
tomorrow (Thursday).
☆ ☆ *
Brigadier V. G. Stokes, who is making
a round-the-world trip as Development
Secretary of the Overseas League, with
headquarters in London, was guest-
speaker at the league’s monthly
luncheon at the Victoria Palace.
The league has just moved into its new
headquarters in Toorak-road, a lovely old
mansion set in a large garden. Brigadier
Ronald Irving, president of the league,
who was accompanied by Mrs. Irving,
introduced the speaker. At the official
table were the past-president, Air-Marshal
Sir George Jones, and Air-Vice-Marshals
V. Hancock and J. E. Hewitt.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Basil Logus has gathered a strong
committee to assist with the gala opening-
night of “Ice Fantasia,” the spectacular
revue to be held at St. Moritz, St. Kilda,
on Friday night, proceeds of which go to
Red Cross funds. Members of the com-
mittee are Mrs. Victor Stone, Mrs. E.
P. Cordner, Mrs. Robert Wallace Mit-
chell, Mrs. J. Cosmos, Miss M. Cosmos,
Dame Mary Daly and Nancy Woodrow.
There will be 150 performers, including
Gwenneth Malony, an Olympic represen-
tative at Oslo and three times Australian
champion. Tickets may be obtained
from Red Cross Headquarters, Flinders-
street.
☆ it *
A warm moonlight night, pictures on
the terrace taken by son Peter on his
tour abroad, and a super supper were
ingredients which made the party given
by Mr. and Mrs. H. Jacobsen at their
Brighton home a most pleasant occasion.
The hostess wore a slim frock of cinna-
mon-brown linen patterned in large black
coin-spots. Included in the guests were
Mrs. George Shepherd, whose frock was
of russet-brown faille ; Mrs. Alan Marsh,
who wore anthracite-grey shantung; Mrs.
S. Aarons, in black cyclamen-starred tie-
silk ; Mrs. Harry Newling, whose en-
semble was of lime-green faille ; and Mrs.
Constance Day, who wore white-and-
black-check crepe.
☆ ☆ *
At Caulfield on Saturday Mrs. Norman
Robinson, wife of the chairman of the
V.A.T.C., wore a black-and-gold-spotted
linen jacket-suit and a black picture-hat.
Her daughter, Mrs. Josh Pitt, was attrac-
tive in brown-and-white-checked chiffon,
which she wore with a small white hat.
Mrs. L. Green’s wide-skirted frock was
of Chartreuse cotton, her hat of black
tulle. Mrs. John Grantly Shelton’s ice-
blue linens and white hat were cool and
attractive. An off-white linen sleeveless
frock was Iris Vincent Smith's choice.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. Henry Bolte’s fully-pleated frock
was of navy French crepe ; her small hat
was of white melusine. Mrs. T. Allan
McKay wore a pale-strawberry-pink
shantung jacket-suit and a wide-brimmed
navy hat. A pale-blue white-spotted silk
frock was the choice of Mrs. Harry Way;
her accessories were navy-blue. An an-
thracite-grey jacket-suit and small white
hat were worn by Mrs. John Cain. Mrs.
Everard Baillieu’s blue-grey linen jacket-
suit was worn with a large matching
hat which had a droop-brim and chiffon
drape.
☆ ☆ ☆
There were 70 guests at the luncheon-
party given by Mrs_ Gray Staley to
jointly celebrate the engagement of her
daughter Valerie Staley and the birthday
of Mrs. Saul Aarons. Mrs. Staley wel-
comed her guests wearing a black chiffon
and faille ensemble ; Valerie chose an
ice-blue angora jacket-suit. Her elder
daughter, Betty O’Connor, wore a frock
of black French crepe. Mrs. Aarons s
ballerina frock was of love-in-the-mist-
blue moire faille. Mrs. Tom Harvey wore
black faille finished with white Swiss
embroidery ; Mrs. Gilbert Walsh was also
in black faille.


sail
OPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5f ins. x 3i ins.,
61 x 3§ and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
t m
Samples and Prices
on application .
Jackson & O’Sullivan [g;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304 - 308 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
g
lIIMLEY’S
Official Insurance
Brokers to the
Graziers’ Association
of N.S.W.
have the specialised
knowledge to provide
the best possible
Insurance for the
Man-On-The-Land
/ Why not take advantage of \
\ lumley’s Free Advisory Service )
dfg
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS Eft
263 George Street, Sydney. 'Phone B 0538.
C.M.L. Building, 72 Hunter St., Newcastle. 'Phone B 1810.
87 Woodlark St., Lismore. 'Phone 1962.
ELS.B.IB
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Dryscfale’s Aborigines
The outback and the abo-
rigines are so much of a cult in
Australian writing and painting
at the moment that there is prob-
ably a general illusion that our
own generation is the first to
discover both place and people.
But, of course, these are per-
manent cults; part of the
national mythology from the
very first; and just as anybody
who travels the far outback
treads, at a considerable dist-
ance, after Leichhardt, and any-
body who writes about it must
follow, say, Ratcliffe’s Flying-
fox and Drifting Sand, so when
Sidney Nolan paints the Centre
he follows Heysen and Murch,
and Russell Drysdale, when he
discovers the aborigines as he
does in his exhibition at Sydney
Macquarie Galleries, discovers
them after Tom Roberts, B. E.
Minns and, again, Arthur
Murch.
One makes the point as a cor-
rective to much that has been
written in the illusion that Drys-
dale is pioneering this field ; but
there is no doubt that he is per-
forming for the present genera-
tion the same service as his pre-
decessors did for theirs, and that
is an entirely estimable thing to
do: for each generation to the
end of time must make its own
rediscoveries.
Whether or not Drysdale is
painting the aborigines with the
same sensitivity of technique,
the same profundity of charac-
terisation as his predecessors is
hardly to be determined-on this
one showing: time is with him.
Certainly one would not like to
compare the painting of the
horse in “Saddling-up,” an angu-
lar and unconvincing quad-
ruped, with the magnificent
plum-colored haunches of the
horse in Tom Roberts’s “Bailed-
up” at the N. S. Wales National
Gallery. There is no Drysdale
portrait to strike home and live
in the mind with the grace, force
and tender color of Minns’s
watercolors or the depth and
dignity of Murch’s oils of the
Aruntas.
But the horse is incidental;
and portraiture, except in the
attractive homely study of old
“Herb Thompson” on his bunk
in his humpy, is not exactly
Drysdale’s aim. He is painting
groups of figures, a kind of
genre- painting, showing the life
of the aborigines in their setting
of desert, rocky mountains or
the dusty townships of outback
Queensland ; and one of these
at least, “Shopping Day,” with
the blacks, like dark ghosts out
of nowhere, dropped bewildered
into the hot, empty little town
of the war-memorial, is surely
as good in its kind as, in their
different ways, a Minns, a
Murch or a Roberts. So, too, is
“Group of Aborigines,” which
one seems to have seen previ-
ously as “The Station Blacks.”
There is no laughter in Drys-
dale’s aborigines, and, curiously,
little animation. They stand
about, still, bedraggled, shy and
rather disconsolate, like people
posing for a photographer in the
street. But there is a charm in
this stillness, something appro-
priate to “the timeless land”;
and if a social conscience has
perhaps overemphasised it, there
remains a truth in their melan-
choly look of outcasts. They
are painted with genuine human
feeling; only the feeling should
go further and depict them more
strongly as individuals. Artists
are usually right in their obser-
vations ; but many of the youths
and children here look like
naive caricatures, while some of
the women (in “The Camp” and
“Mount White”) seem too
closely related to Indian squaws.
Stage and Music
“Latin Quarter”
When Sydney Tivoli goes
Latin it gives its audience no
quarter; and young Mr. Guy
Nelson, singing fierce and
romantic (and possibly correct)
French, was Latin to most of
us; then the frequently pro-
grammed “Les Nus” turned out
to be no satire on the “Sun-
Herald” merger, but a group of
healthy young women who had
lost the tops of their Bikinis ;
the more they changed, as the
French say, the more they were
the same thing.
Between their appearances,
which generally coincided with
heavily-organised and bizarrely-
dressed exhibitions of physical
culture by “Les Modeles” and
“Les Danseuses,” we were
entertained by a crowd of in-
ternational tourists: Mr. Frank
Cook, from Canada, who played
a mouthorgan no-liands by swal-
lowing it until he found the right
note, meantime strumming a
guitar; Mr. Hank Sieman, from
America, who ventriloquised
rather obviously, but carried on
a brisk four-way conversation
with his doll and two people
from the audience to much
applause; two pleasing rough-
anti-tumblers, the Chadells;
two rough-and-ready English
comedians, Lowe and Ladd;
two 8.8. C. entertainers, Carlisle
and Weldon —the lady bringing
down the house with an imita-
tion of Jessie Matthews singing
and emoting; Charley Wood,
from Brussels, juggling very
neatly while balancing on a
table on a one-wheel cycle; the
Australian Balcombes, back
from London with their revolv-
ing ladder on which they get
into a certain amount of
trouble; and Eugene and Car-
lotta throwing each other about
in the theatrical way Apaches
have.
It was an eventful, if not
exciting, evening, though there
was at least one heated discus-
sion in the interval whether,
when “Les Nus” were lowered
from the roof with a sudden-
ness which shook the Statute of
Immobility, it had been done
on purpose or had just happened
that way.
❖ ❖ ❖
The Arrow Theatre
Frank Thring fired two de-
parting shots from the stage of
his Arrow Theatre at the Mel-
bourne theatregoers who absent
themselves from his shows. Both
were first-class. It would not be
polite to Mr. Thring to say
that they were up to metropoli-
tan standard, because the metro-
polis hasn’t any standard in such
plays as Sheridan’s “The
Critic” and Sophocles’ “(Edipus
Rex.”
Yet if there is any fresher,
sharper and wittier dialogue in
any modern comedy than in
scene one of “The Critic” pre-
sent commentator has missed it.
When Sheridan created Mr,
Sneer, Sir Fretful Plagiary, Mr.
Puff and Mr, and Mrs. Dangle
he might have had his eye on
the Melbourne “Herald” open-
air art-show. The play within a
play, where the Earl of Leicester,
Sir Walter Raleigh, Lord Bur-
leigh and other members of the
retinue of Queen Bess are found
in an unconventional relation-
ship with Don Ferolo Whisker-
ando, who has swum ashore
from the Armada to meet Til-
burina, the beautiful daughter
of the governor of Dover
Castle, is as good fun as “Re-
luctant Heroes,” and will prob-
ably still be played when the
latter piece is forgotten.
The Sophoclean tragedy is as
intensely living and dramatic as
“Othello,” and penetrates much
deeper. Its conventions aren’t
any more ridiculous or artificial
than the stage business between
Othello, Desdemona, Cassio and
lago over a dropped ’kerchief.
The Greek chorus of Theban
women is Sophocles’ form of
soliloquy. The play is ad-
mittedly difficult to handle, and
producer Frederick Farley didn’t
handle it better than previous
producers, but Mr. Thring did
his part, as the king who puts
his own eyes out when he dis-
covers that his wife is his
mother and that his daughters
came from the same womb as
their father, with dignity and
feeling. His sin in Greek eyes
was still a sin, although not
consciously committed, and Mr.
Thring makes his audience feel
this point with much more skill
and economy of effort than
Anthony Quayle, for all his bel-
lowing and shouting, did the
much more ordinary situation of
Othello.
In the Sheridan piece
Frederick Farley, Frank Gatliff,
Brian Moll and Kevin Cole-
brook are outrageously funny as
critic, puff-writer, playwright and
producer; and no expense is
spared in the mounting.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Big Time”
Melbourne Tivoli is doing
“Big Time,” a compost of the
usual ingredients of a Tiv. pro-
gramme, better in some parts
and not so good in others. Gene
Jimae, who was born in Detroit
of an Australian girl and an
American father, is a 10-year-
old wizard of the harmonica
who played on a toy model at
the age of four and now plays
outsize examples like a virtuoso ■;
he is also a composer. His
extraordinary skill is equalled
only by the Walton and
O’Rourke puppets, but they, of
course, are manipulated by their
creators, and not driven by an
inner urge like Jimae.
The Chevalier Brothers from
Paris are two incompetent acro-
bats who can’t do anything
right, but succeed in doing every-
thing wrong in a thoroughly
competent manner. Betty Driver
is a substitute from London for
Joy Nichols, but works harder to
get her personality over. She
seems slightly to lack that mys-
terious thing known as relaxa-
tion, which Babs MacKinnon,
the Australian artist, has in
plenty. Halama and Konarski
are Polish dancers, Bert Duke
and Joy are French-German
ones born in Morocco, and
Dorothy Hall’s tvyinkling feet
first touched ground in Papeete
—you couldn’t have anything
more cosmopolitan than that,
although there is a curious simi-
larity about their dancing.
The Tivoli Adorables and
Debonaires make melody and
movement in Madrid, the
Spanish Caribbees and Tibet, and
there is the same remarkable
similarity about them, although
the localities are so different.
Norman Vaughan tells stories
of a more than usually exotic
flavor.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Skin of Our Teeth”
Alan Burke, director of Can-
berra Rep., is saying farewell
before his departure overseas
with an intelligent production of
Thornton Wilder’s “The Skin of
Our Teeth.”
What this piece needs above
all is discipline: and that is the
keynote of this production. On
the tiny stage the swarming
actors moved easily, the bustle
never got out of hand, for the
producer’s finger was in every
pie. The lighting by Jim White,
the sound-effects by Terry Juliff,
the costumes by Jacky Ryan—•
everything helps, and, of course,
Vic Forstmann and Marian
Lazarus continue to work won-
ders with the sets.
Helen Anderson was smooth
and resourceful as Sabina, Ric
Throssell often strangely moving
as Antrobus, Daphne Curtis
much more than competent as
Mrs, Antrobus. Yet the gems
were often the incidentals: John
Cheyne at Atlantic City with his
perfectly-timed whistle, Norman
Phillips as the harassed stage-
manager, Lloyd Thomson as the
dresser, Joyce Goodes (with
sound-effects) as the Fortune-
teller, Peter Knox as the Broad-
cast Official.
Canberra people will be able
to see it each weekend until
December 5. —F. M. T.
♦♦♦
Farewell to Castro
Juan Jose Castro, the Argen-
tinian conductor, farewelled
himself, so to speak, at his fare-
well concert at Melbourne
Town Hall when he set the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra the
tremendous task of playing
Gustav Mahler’s Ninth Sym-
phony, which was Mahler’s own
swan-song, since, like Beeth-
oven, he did not finish his
Tenth. It was the sole piece on
the programme.
Seemingly interminable, and
almost sedative in some places,
it was extraordinarily moving in
others, and the long, mournful
and introspective third and
fourth movements were full of
brooding moments —the com-
poser knew that he did not have
long to live when he wrote it.
There was a fierce grotesqueness
in the dance motives in the
third movement and an expiring
intensity in the last one, where
one instrument after another
drops out.
The orchestra was loaded with
extra facilities for making
((Continued on page 27)


You're wrong Delaney
By BANT SINGER
CHAPTER XIII
SO she thought it was me
when she shot Peters. She
shot Peters, thinking it was
me. When she squeezed
the trigger of that little
gun she was thinking it was me
got the bullet. I lay in that bed
and the excitement about Elaine
all dies away out of me and
I’m cold and want to shiver,
Because her coming to me to-
night was for something—not to
excite me in that way. Some-
thing she wanted to say, but she
didn’t get round to it. She
didn’t get round to it because
of that play with wanting to kiss
me, and her all worked up. It
was something about me and
Kathy and that letter of Fat’s,
But she gets worked up and
when I try to shake her out of
it, after she’s angry and ashamed
and like to start screaming, and
talk about Peters, she lets it
out. “I thought it was you when
I shot him,” she says. Then
she shoots through and leaves
me ,
So I’m all mixed up and a
little scared and worried and
thinking about Elaine and Kathy
and what it is Elaine’s got in-
side her. I’m plenty worried
and anchored to this bed with
sore ribs and a busted wrist, and
the sweat comes on me and I’m
in a fever when the nurse comes
to fix me up for the night. The
nurse feels my forehead and it’s
wet and there’s fever.
“You’ve had too many visi-
tors,” she says, in a tight voice,
She goes away and comes back
and gives me two tablets. Pheno-
barbs to make me sleep. I can’t
get them down quickly enough.
Because I got to sleep. I can’t
think straight and I got to sleep,
I’ll want to think in the morn-
ing. I’ll have plenty to think
about in the morning, so I got to
sleep tonight. The pheno-barbs
get hold of me and presently
it’s smooth and warm and my
nerves sweet and it’s like I’m
wading out into a warm sea of
sleep.
So it’s early morning and a
nurse bringing me tea and carry-
ing round basins of warm
water and bathing the patients.
The lights are on in the ward
and nobody very happy because
it’s so early and the nurse hurry-
ing to get things done. I get
washed and scolded and lie
back afterwards and have a
smoke. I think about yesterday
and last night and a lot of
things, but I’m not thinking
straight.
There’s a set of earphones to
each bed, so I put mine on and
listen to the early-morning radio
stuff coming from the main re-
ceiver downstairs. Some announ-
cer tells me, “Good morning, all
our'friends everywhere: This is
CHS calling you on the biggest
little network in the country. So
we greet Wednesday, May
third, in this year of Our Lord,
and for this morning we have a
hymn for you, specially chosen
by the patients in Ward Six of
the Black Springs hospital.” I
take the earphones off.
Wednesday? That means I
been in this Black Springs no
more than a week. It’s the first
time I thought about that. It
seems more like a month. My
mind runs back over the week
and I can hardly believe all
them things has happened to me.
The nurse is hurrying round with
the breakfast trays and I look at
her and at the other fellows in
the ward and it sort of strikes me
dumb. Because maybe I stay on
that train ah hour longer I hit
some other town and different
things happen. But I have
to drop off it in Black Springs
and go to that poolroom and get
picked up by Keough. Then Fat
has to happen, and Blaine’s
letter, and Peters and all the
rest of it—all that in a week. It
comes to me I better get well
quick as I can and get out of
this dump. Too much worry
and not enough dough in this
Black Springs. Way things hap-
pen in just a week is a bit hard
to take. Only thing stops me
calling the nurse and asking for
my clothes and getting out of
there is Kathy,
Kathy!
Soon as I start thinking about
Kathy the worry slows down
and it’s better. So I think about
her some more and push Peters
and Elaine and Fat and the
coroner’s inquest on Fat way
back in my mind,
A little while after breakfast
the doctor comes,
“How is it now, Delaney?”
He’s touching round the edges
of the plaster with those fingers
of his. I got no need to tell him
bow I am.
“You’ll have to rest today,
my boy.” He’s got my heat
chart in his hand and looking
at it. “No visitors for this chap
today, Nurse. Keep him quiet,
You expecting anyone today,
Delaney?”
“I don’t know. People come.”
“You’ve got to rest, under-
stand that! See he rests. Nurse,
Perhaps he could have someone
for a few minutes this evening,
But he’s got to rest today. You
rest today, Delaney, and maybe
you’ll be allowed up tomorrow.”
“When can I get out of here?”
“We’ll see. We’ll see.”
He goes off to somebody else
and the nurse with him.
The morning passes and no-
body wants to see Delaney, so
I take it easy. There’s the news-
papers and a magazine or two
the nurse brought me, and the
earphones, and I use ’em all.
Because I got a notion I’ll be
maybe busy tomorrow and I
want to rest today. So I rest
and stop myself thinking as best
I can. Only I can’t get three
things out of my mind—Peters
and Elaine and Kathy.
In the afternoon one of
Keough’s boys comes in, a young
fellow with a strong jaw and a
grin.
“The boss,” he says, “wants
you to sign this statement.”
He hands me a typed sheet,
which says:
“My name is Denis Aloysius
Delaney. I am 28. I am a printer
and my address temporarily is c/o
Hotel Enterprise, Black Springs.
At present I have no fixed abode.
I met the dead man, Herman
Baler, on the night of April 29.
I had never met him before that.
I met him in a poolroom which
I now know to be conducted by
a man named Swissen. I talked
with Baler for a few minutes. I
left the poolroom about 11 p.m.
that night. Baler was still in the
poolroom when I left. I have no
idea what caused his death.”
I read this twice quickly and
then slow a third time. There
didn’t seem to be any catch in
it. If Keough had any ideas
about that raid and me chasing
Fat there was nothing about it
in the statement.
“Why does Keough want me
to sign this?”
“It’s for the coroner. Just a
formality. The inquest is on
now.”
“All right. Lend me a pen.”
“Just a minute. This is statu-
tory. We got to have a J.P.”
The detective went out of the
ward. He’s back in a minute or
two and a grey-headed man I
never saw before with him.
“This is Mr. Kilross,” says
the detective. “He’s a justice of
the peace. You can sign now.”
So I sign, and the J.P. signs,
and the detective signs as a wit-
ness. Then they leave me.
Keough’s a smart mover. He
got the statement all typed and
ready. All I got to do is sign
it. What’s his game? I worry
myself about what Keough’s
game is, but it doesn’t get me
.anything. Way I see it I haven t
got to talk about Fat any more
than they want. Fat was dead
when I fell on him in that yard
and maybe they’ll find what
killed him. So let them find it.
Poor“ old Fat’s dead and he
don’t worry me much. Not like
Peters being loose worries me,
and what Elaine’s cooking up.
The night comes again and
when the nurse brings my meal
there’s an envelope on the tray.
I pick it up.
“Nurse, you hear anything
about whether the police got that
Peters —the man got shot at
Paterson’s place?”
“No, I didn’t hear.”
“You hear anything about an
inquest?”
“No, Eat your food,”
She went away. I opened the
envelope.
“Dear Del., Just a few lines to
say I’m back at work. I wish 1
could come and see you this after-
noon, but I have to work. I hope
you are feeling better, darling. 1
I enjoyed my visit home. I told
them about you and they were
sorry about you, but I don’t think
they like me knowing you. I was
wondering if we could go to
Greenvale on Sunday, perhaps, and
see them* I didn’t tell them that.
I thought we might surprise them.
I’d be thrilled if you could. Well,
I must hurry with this, because
Mr. Sloan, he’s a bus-driver, will
be coming past the hotel and I’ll
get him to take it to the hospital.
I do hope you are feeling better.
Yours sincerely, Kathy Colter.”
Girls want to take you to their
homes and show you to their
parents it means they got ideas
about you. Coots like me run
into all kinds of girls and the
ones want to take you to their
homes is the kind you keep clear
of. Because it means they think
they caught you and you’re some
kind of trophy and they got to
show their parents what they
caught. You meet a nice girl
and she don’t want to take you
home means you’re no trophy,
only something got pants on and
fills in the time. So Kathy wants
to take me home means she
don’t hold nothing against me,
about being mixed up with Mar-
tini and Peters. It means she’s
got herself a trophy. Fine
trophy. Just got out of a mur-
der rap, just got to keep quiet
about Fat, still tangled up with
Elaine and whatever she’s got
in her mind, and with that Peters
waiting to jump me about the
three thousand he thinks I got.
Fine trophy Kathy got herself.
Something gone wrong with
me, I reckon. I lie in that bed
and think about Kathy wanting
to take me home and what it
means and it don’t please me.
It don’t please me because Kathy
maybe got me wrong, and it
don’t please me because of
Elaine and Lily and Peters. It
don’t please me because Kathy
wanting to take me home could
mean she thinks I’m some trophy
and lying there and thinking and
looking at myself I don’t see any
trophy a girl like Kathy would
want if she knew about the whole
business.
So it’s night and me with the
mullygrubs thinking about my
little pigeon and the way she
looks and what she’s got in her
heart. It’s night and the thinking
not good and maybe it’s time
Delaney got himself out of that
hospital and out of Black
Springs and far away. Because
you’re in this game you’re on
your own and no place for any-
body else. No place for Peters
and his notions about that dough,
or for Elaine and her passions
and what she’s got inside her
about that letter, or for Kathy
and her notions about catching
herself a good trophy.
And just before 8 p.m. Keough
blows in. •> He isn’t so bright.
There’s a worried look about
him and the eyes sunk way in
under them black hedges of
eyebrows. His mouth is tight,
like a shut trap. He looks like a
man been driving himself hard
and getting nowhere.
“How are you, Delaney?”
“Coming on. Coming on.
You got that Peters character
yet?”
“No.”
“He got away from Black
Springs?”
Keough gave me a black look.
“He’s here,” he says, bitter.
“He’s here, in smoke. Somebody
knows where he is. Somebody’s
feeding him and got him a place
to hide. They’re probably get-
ting well paid, but the bloody
fools don’t know what kind of a
coot he is.”
“How do you know he’s
here?”
“Listen, within ten minutes of
us getting to the Paterson place
the other night every way out of
this town was covered. He’s still
here.”
“He’s had two days and two
nights to make his break. That’s
a long time for a man planning
to make a getaway. He”-
“Delaney, I been in this game
over twenty years. Don't try to
tell me. Black Springs is so
corked up a mouse couldn’t get
out without me knowing about
it.”
“I’m not trying to tell you.
But all that time is a long time.
He could have got through.
You’d have to have a line of
men almost side by side right
round the place to”
“I damn’ near have,” Keough
broke in. “Look, if he wasn’t
getting fed by somebody he’d
have to show. Either in Black
Springs or somewhere close by.
If he got through it must have
been on foot. Everything on
wheels and wings that left this
place since Monday night has
been checked. So if he got
through on foot he couldn’t
make more than twenty miles a
day and he’s got to eat. He’s
got to beg, buy or steal food.
Well, all that’s been checked,
too. So he’s still in Black
Springs, and somebody is feeding
him. You can bet on that.”
“Well, why don’t you find
him? You ought to know the
places to look; the kind of
people would feed him?”
“You bet I know ’em. I got
’em watched so close they can’t
turn over in bed without me
knowing. We’ve just about
turned this town inside out,
right from the shanties op the
river to the bishop’s house. That
Peters is somewhere.”
“Yeah, but where?”
Keough don’t say anything to
that. He shoves his hands down
in his pockets and sits there, and
by the look of him I wouldn’t
want to be the person hiding
Peters when Keough found me.
I can see he’s baffled and plenty
worried. I got worries myself,
because Peters being still in
Black Springs means I got to
watch myself.
“All right,” I said. “So he’s
still here. I don’t want to argue
about it. You can’t find him
soon enough to please me.”
Keough turns his head and
looks me over and a tired sort of
grin eases the tight mouth.
“So, for once, Delaney, you’re
with the police.”
“Damn it, Mr. Keough, you
brought him here in the first
place. You used me to
bring him here. He put a gun
on me and might have shot me
like he done Martini. He bashed
me over the head and done me
over and that’s why I’m in here
all tied up and plastered like *
The Story So Far
Delaney, while in Black
Springs hospital after being
attacked by Peters, learns that
Peters shot Martini, whom
Delaney was suspected of killing.
This, however, does not clear
Delaney of being suspected of
the death of Herman Baler, on
whose body Delaney found a
letter with which he tried to
blackmail the passionate Mrs.
Paterson. Peters, robbing De-
laney, found the letter, went to
Mrs. Paterson, but she shot and
wounded him. He escaped. Det.
Keough is searching for Peters.
Kathy Colter calls on Delaney
in hospital and the two, in their
own way, declare their love for
each other. Later Mrs. Pater-
son calls, has a fiery scene with
Delaney and tells him that when
she shot at Peters she thought
she was shooting Delaney.


exnress-deliverv nackaee That’s
what vou done Y to me But you
don’t eet Peters You don’t get
him and he’s out there some-
wSre and h?s hkelv
another gun from somewhere,
and the he sees it it’s not
you but me got him into the
blue he’s r And still
thinks I got that three thousand,
or know where it is. He thinks
that and he’s surrounded by
on P e S co a ot d you
damn’ well nut him on to me,
Mr. Keough and you damn’
well got to B get him off me. I
got some rights in this business!”
Ever since I been in this Black
Springs I’ve had to jump for
this big Keough man. Now I
got him jumping for me. I’m
mad and some scared, but way
down inside me I’m pleased it’s
me telling this Keough where he
gets off and not him telling me.
That’s quite a change. My oath,
it’s a change
Keough sits right up in his
chair and the tiredness gone
from his face and he looks at
me. He sits there and looks at
me and don’t say a word. Then
he stands up and squares his
shoulders and shakes one leg
and then the other, and sits down
again,
“That’s right,” he says, sort
of slow and thoughtful. “Yes,
that’s right. I brought Peters
here, didn’t I? Well, Delaney,
maybe you’re right. Now I got
him here I got to smoke him
out.”
“I’ll say you got to smoke
him out. I don’t want that”
“0.K.,” he cuts in, and he
seems a whole lot happier and
relieved. “So I’ll smoke him
out You can bet on that.”
“I’ll bet when I see you smoke
him out not before,” I said.
“OKOK ,” he says “Look,
you got any ideas where he
might be?”
“Me! I never saw this place
"We are checking all cars, lady,” he says politely. “I’ll have to see your licence and identify you .”
till last week. I hardly know
anybody in it. How in hell
would I know where he was?”
“Oh, I just asked. Habit, I
guess. Well, I’ll be getting along,
Be seeing you, Delaney.”
“Too right,” I said.
He took a couple of steps,
stopped, turned and came back,
“About the inquest,” he says,
I feel my heart gather speed,
“It’s over,” Keough tells me.
“That Baler had a bad heart.
Wonder he lasted as long as he
did, to go by the medical evi-
deuce. Doctor said he’s been
treating him a couple of years,
warned him against excitement
or violent actions. Autopsy
made it clear Baler’s heart failed
when he climbed that fence,
Fellow should have kept away
from poolrooms and police-
raids. I wonder what fathead
pulled that raid?”
I didn’t say anything. Keough
nodded at me in a distant sort
of way and this time he kept on
B< tS nurse come round and
settled me down for the night
and I got down in that bed and
didn’t like myself one little bit.
I’m no saint, but I’m no killer,
and it’s no use me telling myself
that I wasn’t to know Fat had a
bad heart. No use trying to tell
myself he might just have easy
died in the poolroom or any-
where else. Because I pulled that
phony raid. It was me chased
Fat along that lane and scared
him into climbing that fence,
That’s what I did, because I
wanted my money. No use telling
myself I didn’t know Fat’s heart
was bad. Because poor old Fat
died on that fence with me
chasing him, and if I hadn’t of
been chasing him he’d maybe
still be wheezing round pool-
rooms and counting eggs and
going to see Elaine
Elaine!
Fat, with his bad heart, romp-
ing with that hot number!
Before God it was lucky for
her I pulled that phony raid and
chased Fat over that fence. Be-
cause if he hadn’t of died on
that fence the most likely place
he would have died, and pretty
damn’ soon if the doctors knew
their business, would have been
with Elaine. She’d have had
to do some talking then;
how would she of cooked-
up an alibi for that? Yes, she
was sure some lucky, that Elaine,
She wouldn’t have been coming
to the hospital, a lady visitor
cheering the sick, and getting
into a throe, if I hadn’t chased
Fat along that lane.
So I lie there, after they put
the lights out, and think how
lucky Elaine was. But it doesn’t
do me much good.
Because it don’t let me out.
Because it was me chased him
and made him climb that fence
and his heart gave out and he
fell down on the other side and
was dead when I fell on him.
And nothing I can think about
Elaine’s luck can take that away
from me. Because Fat didn’t
die in a bed but in a muddy
backyard on a wet night and
him scared. And it was me
done it. So I got to lie there in
the dark and stare at the dark
and think about that. Keough’s
got nothing on me about Fat,
nobody’s got anything on me
about Fat, but I got something
on myself about him, and that’s
just about the worst thing can
happen to a man. I got to he
there in the dark and think
"“nflying there and wide
awake and trying to take it, when
the nurse comes in for her final
look around.
“Delaney,” she says, “you’re
the most exasperating patient
Why don’t you settle down and
go to sleep! Now I’ve got to
give you tablets. You’re just
like a fretful child.”
Maybe she got it right, at
that. Times when a man feels
like a child; times when things
get too much for him. This was
one of them times for Delaney.
So the nurse gives me the
tablets.
rHAPTFR viv
CHAPTER
TN the morning I wake up and
1 it’s not so bad about Fat.
After we get washed and the
nurse does her business I reach
for them earphones. Because I
want to hear any news about
Peters. There’s no news about
him and breakfast comes round.
The sun is up and through the
windows I see a bright, fine
day outside. The air is sharp,
but the day is fine and it’ll be
warm later, and I’m a whole lot
better and I get to wishing I
could put my clothes on and go
walking out in the sun. Be-
cause I’m better and I’m tired
of this bed.
The nurse comes in and takes
the breakfast things away and I
put the earphones on. But there’s
nothing in the news that I want
to hear. It’s a whole lot more
cheerful in the ward this morn-
ing, and me and the smashed-up
boy and the others swap talk,
It don’t mean anything, just
talk about how we got hurt and
what got broken and how we
feel.
Then the nurse is back and
she ? s got my clothes, all cleaned
and pressed, and she packs them
into my locker.
“If you’re a good boy,
Delaney, we might let you up
today.”
“Thanks, Nurse. I reckon I
ought to be about ready to get
out of here.” v
Huh, you think I want to
keep you! The doctor will be
along shortly. He tell you
when you can get out.
When the doctor comes he
Jakes a goodl°<* »[. TJJJJjJ
tells the matron, Well, 1 mink
we could let him up today. But
take it easy, young fellow, take
it easy.
He moves on to the others,
looks them over and then goes
° After a while the nurse comes
and put a screen round my bed.
“Get up, Delaney, if you
want. Do you think you can
dress yourself?
111 try. . . ,
I had a bit ot trouble wirn
my right wrist, trying to use the
fingers because the plaster came
right over my hand, but! got the
things on all right. The nurse
did my tie. My side hardly hurt
me. When I started out to waiK
the floor felt rubbery and i got
that feeling of uncertainty comes
after you been abed a day or
two, but I wasn t long getting
fir “ on feet 'u
I went through the ward and
out on to the veranda. It was
warm. I sat in a deck-chair,
walked a little, leaned on the
rail, swapped words with others
out there. Round about ten
o’clock a couple of nurses
wheeled out morning-tea.
“The matron wants to see
you, Delaney
Where do I go.
“Back through the ward, along
the passage to your right. You 11
see her door. There’s a plate
on it.
When I got there the matron
told me to sit down. She was
looking at papers Once the
phone buzzed and she answered.
I sat there, waiting. She had
plenty of character, that matron.
“Well, Delaney,” she says to
me, “how would you like a trip
into the country today?”
“I reckon I’d like it.”
“I understand you are a
stranger here?”
“That’s right.”
“H’m. We have a Ladies’
Auxiliary. They do things for
the hospital and the patients.
They do it from the goodness of
their hearts, you understand.”
“I see.”
I could see some lady was
going to do something for me,
out of the goodness of her
heart. My own heart kind of
paused and waited. I had a
notion who this lady might be.
“One of these ladies is a Mrs.
Paterson. Her husband is one
of our leading She” —
the matron picked up a paper
and looked at it—“has asked us
to nominate three convalescents
who may enjoy an outing in her
car. She has suggested that Mr.
Morton should go—that’s the
man in the bed opposite you—
and she says she spoke to you at
the hospital on Tuesday night
and was —er —favorably im-
pressed and would be glad to
include you if it were possible.
Isn’t that nice of her, Delaney?”
“Yes,” I said.
Sure it was nice of her. It
could be mighty nice if she
sat close to me and I
wasn’t thinking about what
she had in her mind about
me, and about Kathy. So she
was favorably impressed and
she wanted to take me riding,
maybe in the green sports. She
wanted to take me riding, but
she was going to have witnesses,
like Mr. Morton and somebody
else—some other convalescent.
She wasn’t taking me riding all
by myself, with just the two of
us. There was to be two others,
and what I don’t get is whether
they’re to be witnesses or
alibis. Because Elaine isn’t tak-
ing me riding just for the joy of
it. She’s not taking me riding
just because her husband is one
of our leading citizens. He’s
one of Black Springs’ leading
citizens and his wife is a ladies’
auxiliary and does good work,
and she’s going to take me rid-
ing. Well, I’ll go riding. Be-
cause this Elaine is a unpredict-
able kind of a female and she’s
got something inside of her and
I got to find out what it is.
So about a half-hour later the
green sports sails sedately up
the hospital drive and at the
wheel is Elaine. She’s wearing
a kind look and tweedy kind of
coat and skirt and a white blouse
done right up to the neck and
with a tartan bow-tie, and on
her black hair that red beanie.
So she smiles warmly on us
cripples and a nurse helps Mr.
Morton into the front bucket
and I get into the rumble-seat
with a boy I never see before.
He’s carrying his left arm in a
sling and got a big blue bruise
all down one side of his face,
and what isn’t bruise is freckles.
Elaine takes the car quietly out
the drive and into the street. The
sun feels good. Everybody is
happy. People on the street
raise their hats or nod to the
driver and give the passengers
the once-over. Pretty soon Black
Springs is going to know Mrs.
Paterson took some hospital
patients for a drive in the coun-
try.
“How’s the other fellow?” I
ask the kid beside me.
“What other feller?”
“Feller y’ got the bruise and
the arm from?”
“It was football,” he grunts,
and turns away from me and
watches the town going by. I
don’t want to talk to him. You
want to stop a kid talking to you
the best way is offend him. Best
way to offend him is come the
smart stuff. So I come the
smart stuff and now he’s
offended. That suits me. I look
out my side and watch the town
go by. Elaine has staged this
play and when she’s ready she’ll
open the betting. Nothing I can
do except watch the town go by.
Elaine pulls in before a cot-
tage. There’s a woman and two
little kids at the gate, all smiles
and freckles. The boy with the
bruise gets out,
“I’ll pick you up at three
o’clock, Henry,” Elaine says.
She waves to the pleased mother
and lets her clutch in and we
move off. Touching scene. I
look back and Henry is being
led inside. So one witness is
parked. I look forward again,
because I’m wondering when
she’ll park the other.
Mr. Morton gets parked at a
house near the river, where a
tiny little woman all giggles and
babble takes him in charge.
“I’ll pick you up at five to
three, Morton,” Elaine tells him.
She waves to the little woman
and lets her clutch in and we
move off. There’s maybe another
((Continued on next page)


■ 3'6
m/i
sc
»5
•mmm
a-.%
i®!
■Mi!'
w:
!■■ ■
45'-
o
mm
i'
2
« WHOLESALE AGENTS:
S. HOFFNUNG & CO. LTD.
N.S.W.: 153-157 Clarence St., Sydney
There’s a
GEM
to suit every pocket
Whether you prefer the streamlined
chrome set, complete with stropper,
or a less pretentious set, you are
assured of the same keen shave. The
super-keen Gem blades of surgical
steel and the automatic shaving angle
of the razor give you a skin-level
shave that avoids 5 o’clock shadow.
• Gem de luxe Chrome Strop Outfit with
automatic stropper, as illustrated above,
complete with 8 Gem Double Life
Blades, in ivory plastic gift case, 45/-.
• Gem chromium plated streamline model
in handsome case of ivory plastic with
5 Gem Double Life Blades, 25/-.
• Gem nickel-plated Razor with two Gem
Double Life Blades in serviceable plastic
case, 2/-.
• Gem Automatic Stropper, as illustrated,
13/6 each.
• Packet of 5 Gem Double Life Blades of
sturdy, surgical steel last longer, shave
keener, 2/-.
Obtainable at all Stores, Jewellers, Tobacco-
nists and Chemists.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... * L . S ..... 2/r
Yearly 22i.Q
touching scene, but I don’t look
back. Because now there’s no
witnesses and no alibis, way I
see it, and I’m in the rumble-
seat and Elaine driving with her
back to me. The road bends
and we come to a bridge over
the river. There’s a motor-cycle
cop sitting on his machine by
the bridge and another cop talk-
ing to him. This one steps into
the road and halts Elaine. He
must be one of Keough’s rein-
forcements brought to Black
Springs, because it’s plain we’re
strangers to him. He comes to
the car and looks us over, and
his eyes dwell on my right hand,
where the plaster-cast sticks out
of the coat-sleeve,
“We’re checking all cars,
lady,” he says politely. “I’ll
have to see your licence and
identify you.”
“Oh,” she says. “I’m Mrs.
Paterspn. Here’s my licence.
My passenger is Mr. Delaney.
He’s a convalescent from the
hospital. He”
“Your boss knows me,” I
put in. “If we had Peters in this
car nobody would hand him
over quicker’n me.”
The cop gives me a look. Then
he runs his eyes over Elaine’s
licence and hands it back to
her.
“Are you going far?” he asks.
“Just for a little ride into the
country,” she says. “I have to
be back before three o’clock,”
“Keep to the open,” he says.
“The man we’re looking for
would grab a chance to pinch
a car like this.”
“Look in the boot,” I says.
“We could have him in there.”
Elaine turns her head and
gives me a funny look. The
cop gives me a black look. But
he runs his eyes over the boot.
Then he steps back, lifting his
cap, and waves us on. Beyond
the bridge the road runs straight
into the west and it’s a State
highway and plenty of traffic on
it this bright day. So Elaine hits
it up a little and does some over-
taking and smart driving for
about three miles. Then a side-
road comes up, running to the
left, south, and she turns into
it, and suddenly there isn’t any
traffic, only a quiet road
through trees with little farms
on each side.
About two miles along this
road there’s a high, round-
topped hill and another road
branches and spirals up the hill.
Elaine turns up the spiral and
we twist and turn for nearly a
mile and then the road
straightens and runs into a sort
of little park and then she stops.
“Let’s fake a walk,” she says.
I get out and walk beside her.
There’s a low stone-wall with a
footpath beside it. After about
a hundred yards the path fizzles
out and there’s a spread of
lawns and shrubbery, and from
there you look north-east and
about five miles away Black
Springs sits in the sun alongside
its Diamond River.
“Nice view,” Elaine says.
“Nice.”
We haven’t come to look at
the view.
“We could sit here,” she says.
There’s one of them half-
circle wooden seats cut back
into a thick shrubbery. You
sit there over a quick drop to
the valley and anybody on the
hill wants to see you they got
to come round a corner of the
shrubbery. Only persons can
see you sitting on that seat
without peeping round the
shrubbery would have to be
down in the valley, and they’d
need a telescope to identify you.
Nice little organiser, Elaine.
Knows her locality. Knows the
good spots. I start to wonder-
ing if Fat ever come up here,
and then stop it. Because Fat
isn’t good thinking for me and
because I got to have my mind
clear for what’s coming.
“Would you like a cigarette?”
“Thanks.”
She gives me a cigarette, takes
one herself and flicks her
lighter. Her right hip is about
a foot from my left one. I
blow out smoke.
“Well, now,” Elaine says,
giving a little wriggle the way
women settle themselves down
on a seat.
“Well, now?” I give her a
grin.
“You know, you’re quite nice-
looking. You’re quite nice when
you smile.”
“You bring me up here to see
me smile?”
“No. I had to have a talk
with you. Just the two of us.”
“We got something to talk
about?”
“Oh, don’t be difficult, please.
Of course, we have something
to talk about.”
“Like what?”
She don’t say anything for a
minute. Just smokes her
cigarette and stares out over the
valley. There’s real red in her
cheeks, spreading out from the
kind she put on, and her lips
playing with each other in the
way she has.
“I know what you think of
me,” she says.
“Yes?”
“After you found that letter
—after you read it. You must
have” —she can’t find the words.
She’s got something to say to
me, but she can’t get at it. Be-
cause of what I know about her
and Fat she gets embarrassed
and kind of tongue-tangled. I
wanted to hear what she’s got
to say I got to help her.
“Look, Mrs. Paterson, I been
around. One thing you learn
when you been around is mind-
ing your own business. Another
thing you learn about is people.
People do funny things. 1 done
plenty of funny things. And it
don’t worry me about you and
Baler. That’s not my business.
Just because I found the letter
and want to sell it to you just so
you can make everything safe.
th a t 1 mean I y oa
for playing round with Fat-I
mean Baler. It’’—
But you d hold the letter
over me and make me pay you
f° r it • .
She s got some fire in her now
and sitting up, and that means
shes feeling better. Shes feel-
m g better and we can get some-
where.
4 Tou 1 tried to sell it. I
g Qt no soft notions about getting
dough—Tm not Honest Horatio,
the Boy Wonder. I’m just a
gink gets it any way he can, so
long as he keeps in the clear. I
got all them milk-and-water
notions knocked out o’ me long
ago. So I found that letter and
I’m close to broke and need
dough and the letter is one way
to get it. It don’t matter to me
who you are or what you do
with yourself. Nothing personal
in it, just me wanting dough
and got something you’ll maybe
buy from me. And you would
have bought it, only for”
“Only you lost it,”
That rocked me. I jerked my
head round and looked at her,
In the sunlight her eyes are
brown with little green flecks in
ofioS ° £ the fleCkS
tt . „ i
Who told you I los it •
She leaned over and put her
face close to me.
I told you when I shot hat
ma n—Peters, the man they re
looking for-I told you I thought
it was you Remember?
* I ™ er V,
“Well, I really thought it was
y° u - , It: wa ! m the I dar^’ 7 , 1
couldn’t see him properly. When
he had the letter I naturally
thought it was you—l thought
you’d come to—to threaten me,
When it wasn’t you”
“Just a minute. Hold it. You
tell the police this? You tell
this to Keough ?
“Oh, you’re a fool, Delaney.
Of course not. Do you think
I want the police to know”
“Hold on. Don’t talk so fast!
Let’s get this straight. Way I
heard it this Peters coot attacked
you, tried to bagsnatch you.
He”— .. v+t
Oh, that She give ahttle
laugh I wait In the shrubbery
a bird cheeped Elaine leaned
back in the seat and put her
hands behind her head and
ol i t •°I er va Uey.
Were a bright pair, De-
laney, she says,
So what,
If you want to know, I hated
you until the other night. I
would have shot you, that night
we first met, only you were too
quick for me. I tried to shoot
you—or I thought I shot you—
on Tuesday night. I hated you
enough to want to shoot you.”
She stopped, still looking out
over the valley. I sat there, wait-
ing.
Suddenly she relaxed and
turned and put her hands on my
shoulders and pressed against
me.
“Now I’m glad I didn’t. I’m
awfully glad I didn’t.”
I wanted to kiss her. I had a
hell of a job not to kiss her.
You’re in this game you got to
have a little bit of ice in you.
**. s in ™ e ‘ J^ ats wh , y l m v!ln
al ‘ ve m . the clear J.^“
a b.t of ice m you and you
been al oLInL aad y vn ,. Li
Sng y ™ yM
kissing a woman like this Elaine.
Because she’s got some ice in
her> and she > s & got plenty g Uts ,
and she’s no fool. She hated me
and wan t e( j to shoot me. Twice
sbe tr j ed to s h oo t me , only the
second time it
wasn’t me. Now
she ’ s g i a d she didn’t and she’s
close against me on this seat in
sun s where nobody can see
us and her lips up for me to
..
* , 1A
(To be continued next week)
A WOMAN ALONE (1850)
A woman alone in a house has needle and thread,
Cleaning and cooking, lamps to polish and light;
Ingenious devices to keep her thoughts from dread
Of strangers, conjectures, her knowledge, or night as night.
A woman alone in a house has chased outside
Sly catlike wonders, and left them to prowl for themselves;
She wears a patched apron to cover her body and hide
Her self from her self and the watchers aloft on top shelves.
She stokes a high fire with bark-wood to splutter and crackle
Lest other small noises and voices may come to her ears:
Insidious soft tread of grass or the wind-in-trees-cackle,
And all the soft sounds of a woman’s mind down the long
years—
Of a mind reckoned not in a lifetime, but mother to daughter
From the past to this moment, alone with the house and
its laughter.
The moon’s not shut out from a solitary girl in a room
Who opens one window and barely can tell herself why:
“For air,” “draught for fire”—should she guess that old
silver heirloom?
Her granny might have told her what spins in deceptive
calm sky.
But that ancient beldame lies buried, with her widdershins
lore
Beneath the “ould sod” and the priest at her wake specially
read
Prayers to quench her strange fires; to admit her to heaven;
to ensure
Only placid domestic concerns in her granddaughter’s head.
Though the moon’s not shut out: it rays through thick glass
that reflects
Extraordinary patterns, linked stars, which so trap a girl's
eyes
And stray them from stitching to trace how each form
intersects.
A curious woman alone may grow rapidly wise
To retrieve and more deftly re-ravel each delicate strand
Who lives within campfire smell of an archaic land.
Left to herself a woman will tend hearth and garden,
There she’ll plant herbs, “for seasoning broth,” says she.
Stooping till her back twists bent and her fingers harden,
In droughty and shallow soil sets a doomed oak-tree.
Every old garden has, caught in its dreaming hush
Roses and memories of roses—some woman’s pride:
Dry seasons may have withered and killed, but the thorny
bush
Would mystical, force out flowers when all else died.
A wife may lose her looks, pawn the jewelled metals
That gleamed on her fingers; her life may be bitter, set
apart
In a strange place—yet, if she finger a rose’s petals
Joy and delight will ravish the ice of her heart.
There is little a woman need learn or understand
Having eyes, ears; and green touch in the palm of her hand.
n.s.w.
NANCY KEESING.


t
A/wayS ready
for cooking
Always gallons
of Hot water
Always greater
convenience
AlHbrthz
oi
i
y m
ONB
U)W
COST
LOAjiUjtAa«i
m*
fg
DOMESTIC HEAT STORAGE RANGE AND WATER HEATER
with true thermostat control
• HEAVY CASTING within the range stores the heat, and
thorough insulation prevents heat loss.
• TWO LARGE COOKING OVENS and TWO BIGGER HOTPLATES
allow you to do all your cooking at the one time.
• CONTINUOUS BURNING means that the “520” is always
ready when you decide to cook.
• BURNS ON ANY SOLID FUEL—including coal, coke,
anthracite, briquettes, etc.
For economy, efficiency and ease of cleaning, the Car-
michael 520 is truly the ultimate in solid fuel cooking.
Write for free illustrated literature to Carmichael's,
Rawson Street, Auburn, N.S.W.
CONSTANT HOT WATER
★ In the kitchen
★ In the bathroom
★ In the laundry
The Carmichael S2O
will supply enough hoi
water for all your
household needs.
m
Naturally it cooks perfectly ~ . ies *ihnmuhael
Makers of fine fuel stoves since 1892 ... A Unit of Email Limited
Helping Hand
BY
JOHN FOUNTAIN
i( \ JOU know,” Leon Ben
I j Jacob said, sipping his
y coffee, “I haven’t always
L been rich. I’ve been
poor, several times.”
“All the more credit to you,
uncle,” Leah’s boy, Joe, said
with anxious heartiness.
His uncle gave him a dark
stare. These Australian relations
of his puzzled him sometimes.
Did this one, for instance,
dressed up to kill, really think
he, Leon, didn’t know what he
was after? A loan? For Leah’s
sake, and for the sake of his
dead brother-in-law, Joseph, he
wouldn’t mind the money. But
would it really help? Things
were bad in the retail business
just now, and this young fool
had overbought.
Around them was a cheerful
buzz, a boiling of conversation
in English, Yiddish, Polish, Rus-
sian, German. The little res-
taurant was crowded, as always,
at this time. It was not a
Kosher restaurant, but it served
a Jewish style of food —gefilter
fish, and so on. No butter.
Leon, who was in his fifties,
a lean dark man with a high
forehead and a black moustache,
finished his coffee and poked
one of his American cigarettes
in the long holder. “This
coffee,” he said, “is not bad.
But, then, it is not good.” He
sat in his shirtsleeves, coat care-
fully hanging over the back of
his chair. His shirt was mono-
grammed at the pocket, and very
white against the dark hairiness
of his skinny arms. His hands
were small, slim-fingered, ex-
quisite.
“You know, Joe,” he said,
lighting his cigarette, “it is no
disgrace to be poor, but it is
very inconvenient. No one wants
to know you, especially in a
strange country. I did very well
in Shanghai, with the gambling,
but, at that time, I was not
a businessman. No. A gambler,
that was all. A lucky gambler,
with my own place—and a lot of
money went in squeeze—but not
a businessman as your father,
for instance, was a businessman.
No system. Nothing substantial.
Easy-come, easy-go. Oh, 1
thought I was very clever, at
that time, because I handled a
lot of money, but not much of
it stuck to my fingers. So,
finally, when I had to go, I
left with very little money. Six
months before I might have
gone with a fortune. Ah, well.”
He smoked silently for a few
moments, dark eyes narrowed.
“I went to South America—
to Ecuador. Your aunt and my-
self. We couldn’t get into the
United States, where I would
have preferred to go, but -well,
I had always been successful,
and I thought I would find a
profitable way of investing my
money there. But, you see, there
wasn’t much money left, by the
time I had looked around. We
were spoilt, I suppose, by the
easy life in Shanghai, but we
didn’t live very economically at
first. I had always been success-
ful. Something would turn up.
“Then, one morning, one hot
morning, I woke up to realise
that I had only enough money
for a week’s food and lodging.
So I went looking for work.”
He puffed slowly.
“There were some Jews, very
rich men, living there. I went to
see them. At first they were
friendly enough, but when I
told them I wanted work they
looked embarrassed. Finally I
said to them —there was a syn-
dicate—‘Look, I am a Jew, I
am alone and friendless in this
strange country, it is your duty
to help me.’ ‘Very well,’ they
said, ‘we will give you a job.
A good job,’ they said. ‘lt is
the way we started: vklopper-
ing.’ ”
“Kloppering?”
“Yes. It is a sort of hire-
purchase. You take a lot of
cheap jewellery—watches, rings,
brooches—round from door to
door, knocking. You show all
this glittering rubbish to a native,
and quote a price. ‘lt is beauti-
ful,’ he—or more likely she- —
says, ‘but I haven’t got that much
money.’ Then you explain that
the article can be had for so
much a week and they keep
it.”
“Well,” Joe said uneasily,
“nothing very. strange about
that. It’s just”
TJIS uncle held up a slim hand.
. “Yes. Exactly. But it is
very profitable, you see, because
the customers are very poor, and
could hardly hope to save enough
to buy an article outright. Or
to bother about it if they could.
They weren’t very clever at
working out compound interest,
and —well, the business was very
profitable for the people who ran
it. For myself, I must say, I
didn’t like the idea of it very
much. But a man must eat,
you understand? And it is not
pleasant being poor in one of
those countries where Europeans
generally live in very different
style to the native population.”
“Did you make a lot of
money?” his nephew asked, with
flattering interest.
“No. You see, I was only
on a percentage. I was given a
district and sent selling and col-
lecting. It was a big district,
and I wasn’t used to physical
work. Walking, walking, all
day, from door to door, not
speaking the language well-—it
was terrible. There were other
collectors employed by the syn-
dicate I worked for. They were
not Europeans natives In-
dians strong as
mules. They could
walk twice the
distance I could, and
they probably en-
joyed the work. But
—even they didn’t
make much money.
What I earned was
barely enough to
keep your aunt and
myself alive. Alive!
You couldn’t call it
living, in that dirty hole. I
gave up smoking, because I
couldn’t afford to smoke, and
all day long, and at night, the
longing for a cigarette would
be nagging at me, tearing me
apart. At night, after we had
eaten our poor meal, we would
just sit in our dirty room, be-
cause there was nothing to do,
nowhere to go. Then I would go
off to sleep, because I was tired
out, but your aunt would just sit
there, for hours, she told me
later, listening to the noises in
the street. She thought she
was going mad, she told me
later, but at that time she didn’t
complain.”
Leon lit another cigarette,
“You can imagine what a little
of that life will do to a man, or
a woman. I tried —yes, I tried
—but I was no match for the
Indians. I went to my wealthy
friends, I pleaded with them.
Yes, it makes me sick now to
think of it, but I actually pleaded
with one silver-haired, gentle-
voiced old relic, in his big white
house. He couldn’t understand
it. ‘But that’s how I started
here,’ he said, T—and all my
friends.’ And he looked round
his magnificent house, and at me,
in my soiled and shabby clothes,
and his nose wrinkled a little,
and I could see him thinking
that I was no credit to them,
that I was probably a scoun-
drel, certainly a loafer, and, as
likely as not, a drunkard.”
“The old hypocrite!” Joe said
indignantly.
Leon shook his head. “No,
not entirely. A little, perhaps—•
but then, you see, wealth can
insulate a man, blanket his im-
agination, dull his memory.
And, perhaps, he did think I
drank—l was pretty wild-eyed
and shabby. But, most of all,
he and his friends forgot. For-
got what it was like to be poor,
and forgot that in their day they
were working for themselves, and
whatever profit they made was
their own. / was on a percentage,
and a poor percentage. Also,
what they forgot was that the
business was organised they
had organised it—and although
there was still money in it for
them, on a big turnover, there
was less individual profit. The
natives, too, were perhaps wiser
than they had been.”
“Couldn’t you point all that
out?” Joe wanted to know.
“I tried. But the bad impres-
sion made by being poor, and
shabby, and, in a way, a beggar,
was hard to kill. Besides, there
were stories about me, that had
drifted all the way from Shang-
hai, even to that horrible hole,
and they were not nice stories.
I knew people told these stories
about me, but in the pride of my
success I only laughed. I had
my code —which wasn’t every-
one’s code —but I kept to it. I
was a good husband and father,
a good son. A good brother to
my sisters and brothers, and a
good friend. I had enemies.
But now, in that forgotten land,
the stories buzzed about my
ears. They said I was a bad
man —and that was true. But
I was not as bad as they be-
lieved. They said I was a bad
Jew, and there again, they were
right, but not as right as they
thought. They said I was lazy,
and there they were wrong.”
He was silent so long, the ash
dripping off his cigarette, his
eyes half-closed, that his nephew
thought he had gone to sleep.
Suddenly he opened his eyes,
and the white teeth flashed be-
hind the long cigarette-holder,
“But I bore you with this tale
of my hardships, eh? You are
young, and have never been out-
side this country; it can have
no interest for you, I am grow-
ing childish. Tell me, how is
business with you?”
“No, no,” the young man said
hurriedly, “I’m very interested,
really. Please go on.”
“But first we will have some
coffee. It is not the best coffee,
but it is coffee.”
He held up his hand.
“Ho, Peter.”
AT his raised voice the fat,
skull - capped proprietor
turned round and smiled, and the
elderly waiter hurried over with
a coffeepot. “How are you to-
day, Mr. Jacob?” he asked in
a very English voice.
“Well, , thank you, Peter,”
Leon said pleasantly. “And
you?”
They chatted for perhaps a
minute before the old man hur-
ried away.
“See that man?” Leon said.
“Notice his English? He speaks
English as I can never hope to
speak it. I will always have an
accent no matter how fluent I
become. You speak English like
an Australian but then you
have no other language, not
even Yiddish. But Peter speaks
English like a professor at
Oxford. And French like a pro-
fessor at the Sorbonne. Ger-
man, Spanish, Polish, Russian —•
he has them all. The world’s
literature—no man I know is
so deeply read. But he has a
vice—gambling. He will gamble
on anything cards, horses,
anything. And so he is a
waiter.”
“That’s a pity,” Joe said,
glancing after the waiter, his
grey head bobbing over another
table,
Leon shrugged. “Well, he
has had his life. He has had
money, too two fortunes, at
least, one in South Africa, one
in China. But he is an intelli-
gent man, and I do not like to
see him treated with small re-
spect by some of the people who
come here. That fat man, now
(Continued on page 30)


WHY DO you SNARL \
AND SNAP AT ME ALL S
, THE TIME. JODY. WHAT
S NAVE/PONE? J
YOUR PENT/ST CAN TELL
YOU WHAT YOU NAVE y
NOT PONE/ /T'SSO 1
narp for me i
TO EXPLAIN
TO YOU ABOUT
JLSAP BREATH
£
ITS A SAD TALE
Ought'
to <
Muzzle,
Her!/
F*gri*:uwiL'Uii
TO STOP BAP BREATH /
'RECOMMENP COLGATE
\PENTAL CREAM BRUSHING
, TEETH RIGHT AFTER
EATING N/THCOLGATES
MAKES YOUR MOUTH'
t PEEL CLEANER LONGER
G/YES YOU A
\CLEANFRESH.
10UTH ALL
PAY LONGJ
fwoiMTmw
□ "^ABUTTOAPOOCH j
ll r '*y S? THAT SOM \
‘jfl LOOKS L/K£ A J
m\^.J%iCOiSAT£SMOOCH h
©
Tests Published in Authoritative Dental Literature
Show That Brushing Teeth Right After Eating with
COLGATE DENTAL
CREAM STOPS TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Most thoroughly proved
and accepted home
method of oral hygiene
known today.
Yes, and 2 years’ re-
search showed the Col-
gate way stopped more
decay for more people
than ever before re-
ported in dentifrice
history! No other den-
tifrice offers such proof
the most conclusive
proof ever reported for
a dentifrice of any type.
USE COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
>S TO CLEAN YOUR BREATH
✓" WHILE YOU CLEAN YOUR TEETH
>S AND HELP STOP TOOTH
DECAY BEST
Buy the
Big Family
Economy Size
AMERICA’S LARGEST, AUSTRALIA'S LARGEST,
THE WORLD'S LARGEST SELLING DENTAL CREAM
m*
The Old One-Two
by A.B.SHERLOCK
IT was a long time since I had
last been in Gunnimba, but
there were still plenty of
people about who remem-
bered me. I generally remem-
bered them, too, sometimes with
an effort, because the years had
blown some of them up like
balloons, or else deflated them
and dried them out, warping
them in the process.
I was having a drink with
Ted O’Connor, listening to his
talk and watching a group at the
other end of the bar. In 'the
middle was one of the balloon
variety, bulging everywhere,
sixteen stone of an ounce. His
face and neck bulged, too. Hat
pushed back, hair grey at the
sides, retreating in front. He
was telling a story, putting on a
droll face like a fake clergyman,
The four men with him sud-
denly threw their heads back
and let out loud barking sounds,
screwing up their eyes and
showing all their teeth. They
slapped and punched each other
festively. The fat man tilted
some beer into his mouth and
began another story.
“Who’s the happy cove?” I
asked.
“Rusty Clarge. You ought to
remember him. Been here all his
life.”
“Rusty Clarge, that’s right—
I must have a word with him
later. I knew him well in the
old days. That beef he’s carry-
ing had me fooled.”
“Yes, he’s a few pounds over
weight-for-age nowadays. When
he was younger he was a fair
terror. Fight like a thrashing-
machine. Used to go terrible
well; might’ve been a champion
if he’d got into the game
properly,”
“Yes,” I said. “I couldn’t for-
get that.”
T ES DARCY had not been
■'-'dead for very long, and the
war was just over ; the stage was
ready for the appearance of a
colorful boxing figure. The
current champions were just a
lot of journeymen.
Rusty Clarge weighed a little
over eleven stone, and was just
twenty-two years old. He would
develop more weight, of course,
but for a,few years he would
still be able to come in strongly
at the middleweight limit. His
title “Rusty” came from the
color of his hair, a dusky red like
dried orange-peel. His face was
red, too, and much freckled. He
had a short nose, a wide mouth,
lively blue eyes and a fund of
smutty stories.
In and around Gunnimba he
was known as a scrapper who
would put up his fists anywhere
and at any time. He was not
the brawling type ; nobody could
call him quarrelsome. It was
simply that he had a reputation ;
he was top-dog, and there was a
mischievous interest in seeing
him brought down to the general
level. Rusty was well aware of
this, and he had no intention of
tumbling off the tight-rope and
giving everybody a free laugh.
Out at Cardury station, where
he was working at the time, he
had a platform-ball rigged up
behind the woolshed, with bags
of sand on top of it to muffle its
irritating clatter. He also had a
heavy canvas punching-bag
swung on a chain. The thrash-
ings he dealt out to the bag were
spectacular. When he came to
town he always brought a sugar-
bag with a set of gloves in it, in
case of emergencies, although he
had no objection to raw fists if
anyone felt like it.
At shearing-time he was
generally very busy, battling it
out with imported talent, usually
for five pounds a side. Most of
the shearing-teams had at least
one knuckle-man, hardened and
experienced by travels and en-
counters, and Rusty barred none
of them. He won a lot of fivers.
He was too young and fresh
and enthusiastic for most of his
opponents. If they were crude
he knocked them out, and if
they were knowing he wore
them down.
"OUSTY had perfected two or
three pet movements which
gave him an advantage over
scrappers who went along im-
provising between punches. His
favorite was a combination
affectionately known as “The
Old One-Two.”
This was his own invention,
and it always reminded me of a
bowler’s delivery. Rusty would
bring his left down in an arc,
from a height just above the level
of his head. Generally this was
a back-handed punch, and not
very heavy. But the second half
of the same movement followed
in a flash —an over-arm right,
slightly bent. Rusty threw so
much force into this wallop that
he appeared to fall headlong
behind it.
The success of this windmill
affair was due to the left, which
steadied the victim just long
enough to make him a sitting-
shot for the following right.
Rusty was proud of the device,
and took every opportunity to
use it. When he landed it
properly one application was
usually enough.
Most of his contests took
place in shearing-sheds, in back-
yards, or on a bit of flat ground.
The idea struck me that people
might pay to see Rusty in action.
I was a couple of years older
than he was, and I saw myself as
a wealthy promoter.
Rusty agreed willingly. I was
to finance the ring and fittings
and meet all expenses. We
would put up a side-stake be-
tween us. The gate was to be
divided between the two fighters
and the promoter. I got an old
tarpaulin, some ropes and tim-
ber and made the ring myself.
Schoolboys plastered the town
with dodgers.
Rusty’s opponent was one
Fred Stunhardt, billed as cham-
pion of Poonagee Springs. Some-
body up at the Springs had
enough confidence in him, any-
way, to put up a tenner as a side-
stake. When the date caine
near X had nightmares about
rain and an empty house, and I
began to kick myself for not
having sold tickets in advance.
My worries were unnecessary.
The hall was overflowing, and
when the prelims, were over
Fred Stunhardt showed up in a
pair of long trousers raggedly
scissored into shorts. He also
insisted on wearing a grey
flannel “Jacky Howe” shirt,
being modest about displaying
his bare torso in public.
His appearance was crude,
and so were his methods in the
ring. He was a wild rusher with
an optimistic right swing. His
constant charges kept the house
excited ; between rushes he was
mostly untying himself from the
ropes. X found afterwards that
he had loosened three of the
ring-posts.
Rusty got him in the fifth with
The Old One-Two, and the
Springs sportsmen went back
home, leaving a lot of money
behind.
Six weeks later we put on
another show. Rusty against
Harry Cuff, of Merboola, the
big town on the border. We
did nothing to check the rumor
that not so many years back
Harry Cuff had tackled good-
class middles in the city; had
boxed at West Melbourne. All
the same, I reinforced the
rickety ring-posts.
Rusty outlasted the veteran,
and the house was big enough to
clear all my outlay and leave a
good profit. We staged two
more contests, but public in-
terest was quickly leaking away.
Gunnimba had no more money
for pugilism. The town accepted
the fact that Rusty was unbeat-
able, and the takings at the
picture-show climbed back to
normal.
T OCAL pride had been hint-
■*-' ing for some time that Rusty
should go to Sydney and gather
in a fortune. The moment now
seemed to have arrived. Rusty
took some persuading, but I got
.him on the train at last. We
had both thrown up our jobs,
but I had little doubt that I could
get mine back again if Rusty
failed to take the city by storm.
Half Gunnimba crowded on
to the platform, and when the
train started to move the yelling
and cheering scared a couple of
hundred galahs out of the tele-
phone-wires behind the station.
The screeching of the birds
helped to make the send-off a
noisy success. We covered half
a mile before the din died away.
Gunnimba’s exuberant fare-
well was a tonic to Rusty. He
glanced around the compart-
ment, and put on the look which
prefaced a funny story ; his head
fell on one side and he leered
like a low comedian. In high
good spirits he began to un-
wind his endless coil of stories.
It was a chain-reaction; each
provided a fuse for the next.
They came in series, the honey-
moon themes, the bashful
curates, the bawdy barmaids.
We clattered out of the plains
and into the wheat-country, the
wheels were faster and more
resonant on the heavier ballast,
the train swayed and roared,
and Rusty, leaning his face into
his audience, talked and ges-
tured untiringly while my eye-
lids sagged. I lost sight of him
at last, and woke up to find his
sock-clad feet in the small of my
back, while the misty Sydney
dawn was racing past the win-
dows in shreds of fog and moist
sunlight.
Rusty knew nothing about the
city; it was his first visit. I
knew just enough to put up a
show of familiarity, and when I
lost my bearings I kept it to
myself. We took a room in a
narrow-fronted pub in Padding-
ton, and we spent most of the
first two days in the trams.
Rusty was fascinated with the
trams; I had to drag him out
of them to eat. We cruised
around the network until the
conductors began to have doubts
about our motives.
Then Rusty discovered Bondi
and the surf, and other dis-
coveries kept crowding in, so
that a week went past without
even an approach to the first
rung of the championship-
ladder. After another week I
told Rusty that it was time that
he got into training and started
to look for a match,
“Tomorrow,” Rusty said.
He had just found the ferry-
boats.
A FTER two more days of dis-
coveries and excuses, I
finally landed him at Bill
Gogelly’s gymnasium. It was
on the first floor of an old barn
which looked ,as if it might have
been put up by the convicts. You
went up a stairway between a
pet-animal shop and a barber’s.
It was low and bare-floored like
an empty storehorse, and it
smelled like a stale football-
sweater. There was a fourteen-
foot ring in the middle, and the
usual balls and exercisers around
the walls.
Bill Gogelly was holding a
watch and timing two boys who
were skipping in one corner. He
was a little man with a lifetime
of pessimism in his dark eyes
and long-suffering mouth. He
received us as if he had dreaded
our coming for years. When I
asked him to train Rusty he
looked first at Rusty and then
at me.
“Where do you fit in?”
“I’m his manager,” I said.
Bill Gogelly’s gloom seemed
to deepen. He looked hope-
lessly out of the window.
“You blokes got any sugar?”
I told him we could carry on
for a couple of months at least,
and I gave him a sketch of
Rusty’s all-conquering career at
Gunnimba. This apparently
saddened him even more.
“It’s a hard game,” he told
us. “A hard game.”
He shook his head very slowly
from side to side, as if trying out
a stiff neck. At least he emerged
sufficiently from his despair to
offer Rusty the chance to spar
with one of his boys. There
were two available —a dark,
tough - looking welterweight
about Rusty’s size and a smaller
fair-haired chap who looked
pale and slightly consumptive.
Rusty was cautious; he nomi-
nated the little pale one.
Bill Gogelly did not comment
on his choice. All he said was
“Era will give you a good try-
out.”
Era changed into full-length
black tights, which made him
look very businesslike. All
Rusty had was his old shorts
and a pair of ring-boots in need
of stitching here and there. I
got a towel and put myself in
Rusty’s corner. The welter-
weight was looking after Era,
while Bill Gogelly stood by the
gong and pulled out his watch.
A FEW hangers-on stood
around, and the other boys
stopped working and draped
sweaters over their shoulders.
Bill Gogelly tugged the cord,
and the gong bounced a sharp
note into the liniment-scented
air. . .,
Rusty came out grinning with
confidence, but the professional
looked very sober and thought-
ful. He had a peculiar routine
of twisting his head out of the
way of punches, and for about
a minute he seemed content to
do nothing else. It looked like
some method of exercise. He
glided about in a rubbery way,
watching Rusty’s flashing gloves,
and putting his head on one
side or the other of them. 1
looked very easy. . ...
Then he began punching, stsd
with the same serious look, and
(Continued on page 30)


Missing Friend
HARRY BAYLEY
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE for Victoria
holds about £l3O for HARRY BAYLEY,
■who married ELLEN ARROWSMITH at
Denton, Lancashire, on 15th March, 1919.
Will the said Harry Bayley, or any
person knowing his whereabouts, please
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Legal Notice
I. MARIJA BAUTOVIA, of Yugoslavia,
bom at Zupanjeselo, resident six years in
Australia, now resident at Eastwood Road,
Leppington, intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality and Citizen-
ship Act, 1948.
SYDNEY GRAMMAR
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
The SYDNEY GRAMMAR SCHOOL announces that
its new Preparatory School for Boys, at St. Ives, will
officially commence its first term of activities on Tuesday,
9th February, 1954. This modern and well equipped
school will be staffed by experienced teachers and will
provide a liberal, non-sectarian education for day pupils
from 5 years of age and onwards.
Transport is by bus from Pymble Railway Station. The
Boarding establishment will be opened in 1955. Applica-
tion forms for pupils desirous of being enrolled for the
1954 term are now available from:
The Headmaster,
Sydney Grammar Preparatory School,
Ayres Road, West ST. IVES. FA 8158.
The Red Lion's roaring for it
New England
and the New State
By M. H. ELLIS
NEW States have been an
issue almost since there
was an Australia the
name was first used
officially in 1817. In the earliest
days the tendency of authority
was generally towards separation
and the extension of local gov-
ernment. It is a year short of
130 k years since the landholders,
merchants and other free in-
habitants of Van Diemen’s
Land sent a “respectful and
humble memorial” to the King
asking for the elevation of the
island into a separate colony.
The island then had a popula-
tion of only some 13,000, about
47 per cent, convicts and a
considerable section of the rest
former convicts, wives of con-
victs or children of convicts.
Fourteen years later, in
October, 1838, Governor Gipps
thought that, in view of his
difficulty in governing Port
Phillip, 600 miles away, it would
be “a source of congratulation,
as far as I am personally con-
cerned, to be rid of it.” But
there was a seven-year fight
ahead before even the fringe
of success was reached. It is
amazing now to read Gipps’s
views in February, 1845, and
reflect on his wisdom:
I have no hesitation in repeating
what I long ago declared—that the
only security which can, in my
opinion, be taken in X. S. Wales for
what Britons are accustomed to re-
gard as constitutional government,
is _to be looked for in the timely
raising-up of local institutions. I
can scarcely imagine anything more
likely to lead to unsatisfactory re-
sults than the existence in Sydney
of a legislative body disposing of
the whole revenue of the State, regu-
lating the affairs of every district
in it, and composed of representa-
tives from those districts, each
grasping at—or rather, should I say,
higgling and bargaining for—the
greatest share which he can get for
his own constituents out of the
general spoil.
Dr. Lang, a noisy publicist,
made himself the hero of the
Port Phillip separation move-
ment, but Victoria probably
owes at least as much to Gipps,
It became a colony when it had
acquired 75,000 people. Queens-
land had 25,000 when it became
a colony. But that was the end
in eastern Australia.
Though the agitations in
Riverina and New England are
nearly a century old —Riverina
movement dates from 1856 and
New England was born about
the same time—these areas are
still victims of the conditions
which Governor Gipps outlined
as undesirable in 1845. Yet both
have populations and wealth
greater than that of the whole
of Australia when responsible
government became a fact; each
has thriving cities and a com-
plete local economy peculiar to
its area.
Political parties express pious
aspirations about the futures of
both. Royal commissions (the
last the Nicholas Commission of
1927) report in favor of separa-
tion. But no Government of
New South Wales (or Queens-
land) is going to abandon
regional domination.
Sydney has 55 members out
of 94 in the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly and Sydney drains
most of the exported produce of
the Riverina and New England
through its port. Sydney would
be bankrupt if the Riverina and
Northern N. S. Wales formed
their own ports or linked with
Victorian and Queensland
transport-systems. The finances
of the already almost insolvent
N, S. Wales railways, if they
could not get the income to be
earned by hauling the produce
of areas 150 miles from the
North Coast 500 miles to Sydney
for sale, would be in a parlous
state indeed.
Queensland is much in the
same position. The separation
movement was born in the
Central District in 1866. As
far back as the early ’nineties
the Queensland Parliament saw
a bill to provide machinery to
divide that long strip of variant
country reaching 1400 miles
from Torres Strait to the Mac-
pherson Ranges into sub-States
of Queensland.
But Queensland remains as
before, with its capital at one
end as far from its northern-
most point as London is from
Budapest. Griffith’s dream that
Queensland would have a
Federation of its own was never
realised, though every year
political leaders solemnly pledge
themselves in favor of subdivi-
sion—winking broadly the while.
A battle raged on the matter
during three or four years of
shadow-sparring. The question
was an issue at elections, and
the Government was challenged
to take a referendum —and ran
away. The Federal Constitution
Bill made special provision for
subdivision of Queensland.
The new-State movement, in
N. S. Wales particularly, has
kept alive, and each year has
become more and more practical
politics, especially in the New
England district, which forms a
complete whole in itself, ideal
for self - government. The
Nicholas royal commission de-
fined its ideal boundaries to in-
clude an area bounded on the
east by the N. S. Wales coast
north of a point between
Wyong and Newcastle; on the
north by the Queensland border,
on the west by a strip of land
running direct north-to-south for
60-odd miles to the east of
Bourke, The southern border
ran through Brewarrina down to
Binnaway, west of the railway
to Gwabegar, then to the north
of Cassilis, down the Dividing
Range and then to the coast.
Within this area is the great
coal and industrial area of New-
castle. It contains half the
towns and cities with popula-
tions over 5000 in the State. It
has two university colleges, one
still in process of establishment
at Newcastle, great public
schools, good roads and a
community spirit. It has 22
members in the State Parlia-
ment. New England, like some
other districts, is slowly but
surely coming awake with anger
in its eye at what it sees happen-
ing.
That it has been treated shab-
bily and neglectfully in the
matter of the Queen’s visit it re-
gards as only to be expected with
a Government in power which
likes to distribute favors among
the industrial electorates. But
this is merely a straw in the
wind showing the tendencies
which are obvious in accord
with cityward drift of popula-
tion and the load which is
added to that already put on
the shoulders of rural-producing
districts by'the accumulation of
city civic luxuries for which they
have to help pay.
For instance, the north
notices that the County of Cum-
berland, 1500 square miles round
Sydney, in the five years 1947-
52 absorbed a greater increase of
population than the whole of
Queensland and South Aus-
tralia put together. In other
words, it has added in five years
enough population to its metro-
politan mass to people 22 new
cities the size of Albury or
Lismore and about 45 the size
of Glen Innes; while, generally
speaking, the populations of
most rural towns and cities are
nearly at a standstill or declin-
ing.
New England, one-third of the
State, twice the size of Vic-
toria and with a population
approaching 700,000, is largely
helpless in the matter of develop-
ing its resources, the say-so being
in the hands of the metropolis-
dominated Government.
This surely, write the spon-
sors of the New England move-
ment, is the very negation
of democracy in a district
whose production-income is
£191,000,000 £133,000,000
more than Tasmania,
£52,000,000 more than W.A.
and £9,000,000 more than S.A.
New England, it is added, if
given separation, would rank as
“the fourth State in the Com-
monwealth,” with more popula-
tion than any State other than
N. S. Wales and Victoria pos-
sessed at the time of Federa-
tion ; with nearly as many
people as South Australia,
W.A. and Tasmania together
boasted at that time.
The Nicholas Commission
recommended that a referendum
should be taken on separation
in the various areas of N. S.
Wales. The present State Gov-
ernment —any State Govern-
ment —would as soon facilitate
the taking of one as commit
hara-kiri.
Petitions have been ignored.
Agitation has no effect. The
Government just goes on cyni-
cally fostering its cities.
In 1950 the New England
movement decided that it would
arrange a referendum or two of
its own to test public feeling.
There seemed to be no bar to a
vote being taken by the local
councils in conjunction with
their normal triennial elections
for aldermen and councillors.
Just to make sure, two coun-
cils asked advice of the Local
Government Department, then
presided over by Mr. Cahill,
the present State Premier.
They were told that there “was
no specific provision in the
Local Government Act, 1919, or
the Ordinances thereunder,
which precludes the taking of a
poll on the desirability of new
States at the same time as the
triennial election on December
2, 1950, if the council is agree-
able” ; but it was suggested that
“the council should take care
that it was not involved in any
abnormal expenditure or that
its own poll was not prejudiced.”
Glen Innes took a poll, and
the result was apparently both
an awakener to the New Eng-
land movement and a shock to
the Government.
This year, the next election
after 1950, it was discovered
that, except for Glen Innes,
which already had its result,
virtually every big town and city
north of the Hunter was in-
clined to join in the referendum
proceedings, and that Parlia-
ment, therefore, might be faced
with a result not easy to ignore.
There were in all about 15
cities and towns involved, in-
cluding South Grafton, Kemp-
sey, Manilla, Tenterfield, Tam-
worth, Quirindi, Narrabri, Gun-
nedah and Inverell, plus 13
shires, all important.
Behind the New England flag,
which has become a prominent
decoration on button and
banner in the north of the
Mother State in the past year or
so, the forces of the movement
were ranged, all very vocal and
full of fight. The emblem of
New England is a rampant
, b „ l “ Od ; r tnrd n in Cr „ 0 „T e „ d ! :w Wa ,K
ing a sword in one paw, its
other three paws each showing a
formidable set of claws. Ae
beast’s tail forms a sturdy ques-
tion-mark And it annears to
be putting 4 tongue out at
somebody - presumably Mr.
..u r 0 , .
Cahfll, whom it has decided to
.
b ance 1S
that Mr Cahill s legal advisers,
who in 1950, when there seemed
little chance of any effective
vote being carried, were certain
that L ff would be perfectly legal
to hold a referendum, are now
prepared to take then oath that
any such proceedings would be
a cross between lese-majeste and
barratry. Quite dlegal, in fact,
declares Mr. Cahill s legal
mouthpiece,
A few councils, a little soft
in the shell, were driven to
ground by this piece of totali-
tarian hanky-panky. But the
New England movement itself
and most of {he councils con-
ceraed at the time of writing
are undismayed, though later
on some may not find it so easy
to proceed. A well-known
lawyer, an ex-town-clerk, skilled
in the intricacies of the Local
Government Act, has told the
organisers they can say “800 ! ”
to Mr. Cahill. And with
100,000 ballot-papers rolling
off the presses and all arrange-
ments made to enable the
councils to finance the referen-
dum-poll without dipping into
municipal funds and risking
jail under the Dog Act, or what-
ever mysterious legislation the
State Government intends to use
to prevent free, white groups of
full-fledged citizens, all sane and
over 21, from voluntarily tak-
ing a vote on the same day as a
municipal election as to who
shall govern them, the move-
ment is waving its lion flag
more vigorously than ever, and
is launching out into a full-scale
political campaign, with all the
attendant tours of leaders, radio
advertising and newspaper pub-
licity.
Some of this is freshly origi-
nal. At the time of the last
campaign the Grafton “Ex-
aminer” published two issues on
one day, one giving the news of
the moment, the other showing
what the news would be like if
the north were in control of its
destiny, instead of being a
helot backwoods region under
the heel of Surry Hills and
King’s Cross.
The leader of the movement,
Mr. Philip Wright, of Armidale,
one of the best-known graziers
in the north and a former presi-
dent of the Graziers’ Associa-
tion, delivered his speech on
November 16, and as this is
printed the war is on.
To permit 55 persons in Syd-
ney to continue to determine the
fate of 680,000 people in the
New England is a “travesty on
democracy,” declare the
speakers :
If the northern people are desirous
of managing: their own affairs, the
referendum will determine the issue.
If they are content to accept the
right of a Sydney majority to de-
termine whether the lluka port will
be completed, whether the hydro-
electric resources of the Clarence will
be developed, whether the Keepit
Dam will be finished, whether the
Glen Innes-Grafton road and rail-
way will be converted from blue-
print to actuality, then a referendum
will decide.
New England’s blood-red lion
flag waves even redder than
usual in the breeze. The ani-
mal’s tail is more like a ques-
tion-mark than ever. His roar
can be heard in Macquarie-
street, where the Premier is rest-
lessly trying to explain why the
Queen cannot go to Tamworth
and Armidale and can go to
Surry Hills and Paddington. At
the same time he is trying to find
a plausible excuse for the change
in the Government’s opinion as
to the legality of the poll and an
answer to the question which
speakers in the north are putting
to him squarely—“whether this
blatant reversal has been dic-
tate<i by some anti-democratic
and totalitarian Minister intent
on suppressing the opinion of
the New England electors, or
whether it is merely an indica-
tion of official incompetency?”
If there should be a vote in
favor of separation this time it
will still have only local sig-
nificance, but it will put such
heart into the New Englanders
that even Canberra will hear
the Red Lion’s claws scratching
at the- door after the 1956 elec-
tions, when a poll of much
wider range is almost certain
to be taken if there is a “Yes”
vote for separation this year.
A successful result would cer-
tainly have a revolutionary
effect on the fortunes of the
new-State movement in all parts
of N. S. Wales and make the
matter a very live question at the
next State elections.
And the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment can take it that if, by its
“blatant reversal” of opinion as
to the legality of the poll, it
succeeds in preventing a poll, it
will do still more for separa-
tion than even an overwhelming
“Yes” vote could do.


AN IDEAL CHRISTMAS GIFT
A subscription to
Just fill in the following form and post it with your cheque for 365. (12
months), 18s. 6d. (six months), or 9s. 6d. (three to The
Bulletin, Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney, and The Bulletin will be posted
to anyone you name in Australasia regularly every week for the selected
period. Annual subscription to other parts of the British Empire, £2.
Foreign, £2 10s.
“The Bulletin ”
Sydney.
twelve*
Please post “The Bulletin” for the next six* months to the following address, for
which I enclose.
three*
..... .by cheque*
postal-note*
money-order*
* Strike out words not required.
Card to be filled in:~
TO
FROM
Name (block letters)
Street ' • • • •
Town
State or Country * • •
With the first issue of each 12 months' subscription will go a
"Bulletin" Christmas-card filled in as you desire
NOTE: For our records, your own name and address may be written across the top of this form.
AUCTIONS
FERNTREE GULLY DISTRICT
110 ac. Dairy Farm.
See Ad. Lysterfield Country
Properties
PAGE’S ESTATE AGENCY
Upper Ferntree Gully 430.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Interest in the A.J.C.’s Christ-
mas double —the £3OOO Villiers
Stakes (one mile) and the £3OOO
Summer Cup miles) —livened
after racing at Warwick Farm
on Saturday, with former West
Australian galloper Raconteur
and Plato most favored for the
Villiers, followed by Hans and
Dark Fife, then French Echo,
Karendi and Suncup, and Lord
Forrest and Unfaan favored for
the Cup.
This year the Summer Cup
will be run at H miles, a furlong
shorter than formerly, a factor
which should mean a better attd
bigger field on Boxing Day.
Plato’s Warwick Farm form
was sound enough for him to be
conceded a good show in the
Villiers, as was the effort by
Flans when second to his stable-
mate Dark Fife in restricted
company. However, Dark Fife
would appear a better Cup pros-
pect. He came from tenth place
at the half-mile and has shown
ability over a middle-distance.
His fourth in the A.J.C. Metro-
politan is a pointer in his favor
for the Cup, and the favorable
weight of 7.4, or 41b. above the
limit, should give him a chance
to win an important handicap.
Indentured to Rosehill trainer
Jack Ryan until March, 1957,
midget apprentice W. Toohey,
who weighs less than six stone,
is one of the jockey-finds of
the current season. Already the
young horseman has created a
favorable impression among all
sections of racing. His coolness
in emergencies and his ability
in the saddle have been noticed,
and his mounts are meeting with
keen support. A pokerfaced
type, he smiles little, and isn’t
carried away by success.
Toohey was seen to advantage
when winning on stablemates
Overlook and Liquid Fire at
Warwick Farm. Overlook
scored at 6 to 1 in the First
Graduation Stakes and Liquid
Fire at 7 to 2 in the Camden
Handicap. Overlook had the
right form, as he had won at
his two prior starts; Liquid
Fire improved sharply on his
display at the previous meeting
at the Farm. A drop in weight
to Ist. was an important fac-
tor in his success.
Strongly built and handsome,
Warwick Farm two-year-old
winner Pipes of Pan is a son of
imported Panair, who has got
away to a good start with his
first-year progeny. The colt
handed out a galloping lesson
to his opponents, equalling the
track record of 60 seconds for
the five furlongs, and it would
have meant no extra effort for
him to have bettered that time.
Trained at Randwick by Frank
Dalton for Norman Fraser,
Pipes of Pan cost 950gns. in
New Zealand. He had started
once previously for a second in
the A.J.C. Breeders,’ Plate to
Lindbergh. Next engagement
may be the A.J.C. December
Stakes. The colt’s sire won five
races in England and France
and was placed 15 times in 24
starts. He is by Panorama, un-
beaten in seven races at two
years. Lady Lu, dam of the
Warwick winner, is by Raceful
from Welcome Lu by Lucullus
(imp.).
Winner of the Warwick Farm
Encourage in 2min. 29isec.,
four-year-old Humid was lack-
ing form until a couple of weeks
ago, and has come good sud-
denly. He’s an A 1 Dakhil (imp.)
entire from Red Lace by Excite-
ment (imp.) and from the same
family as Dark Felt, a Mel-
bourne Cup winner,
El Ziet (imp.), the only
Sydney-owned challenger, proved
a non-stayer in the two-miles
Queensland Cup, for which he
started second-favorite at 5 to 2.
The hot favorite, Lariat, also
missed a place. With the winner,
Jungle Law, quoted at 33’s, book-
makers scooped the pool.
Despite Jungle Law’s win at
Doomben a couple of weeks
earlier he wasn't wanted by
backers. In August last year
he was successful at a mile and
a half. The six-year-old geld-
ing by Laureate from Spilornis,
a mare by The Buzzard (imp.),
is one of the team of Brisbane
trainer H. F. Best, who prepares
him for Mrs. L. Waldron, of
Toowoomba. Rockha mpt o n
jockey W. Welburn had the win-
ning mount. In beating Bar
Sinister and Basha Felika, Jungle
Law ran the two miles in average
time for the Cup, 3.2 ly.
Spritsail, Melbourne two-year-
old winner of two races at his
only two starts, is already being
talked about as a likely Derby
prospect; he won the Caulfield
two-year-old race over five fur-
longs on Saturday. He had pre-
viously had a runaway win at
Moonee Valley and could be a
colt above average. He started
at odds-on at Caulfield in a
big field, and ran the distance
in the smart time of 59isec.,
quarter of a second outside the
track’s best. Masthead (imp.) is
sire of the speedy colt, whose
dam, Roshanara, is by Dhoti
(imp.). Prominent owner-breeder
E. A. Underwood races Sprit-
sail.
One of Melbourne’s most con-
sistent performers, Rio Janeiro,
won his third race from his
last four starts when he made an
exhibition of opponents in the
Caulfield Eclipse Stakes, last of
the important events of the Mel-
bourne spring round. Maybe it
was a doubt in the minds of
most punters as to Rio Janeiro’s
ability to run a hard 10 furlongs
right out that caused his remark-
able starting-price of 10 to 1.
Some backers had 12’s. Once
again the costly Flying Halo,
9 to 4 favorite, let punters down,
though he managed second
place.
• - • 4
A 16-years-old track record
was broken when Rio Janeiro
ran the mile and a quarter of
the Eclipse Stakes in 2min. 3sec.
In 1937 Beau Ham covered the
distance in 2.3 f. Full use of
Rio Janeiro’s speed was made
by jockey Vic Hartney, who
some years ago was a leader
among the riders, then had a
shot at training but evidently
found the riding would yield
better dividends.
Moderately-performed Most
Regal was one of the unlucky
horses of Melbourne’s spring
round of important handicaps.
The six-year-old Royal Step
gelding finished third in the
Caulfield Cup and second in the
Melbourne Cup, but was un-
placed in other races. The geld-
ing came to light again as a
winner in last week’s Bendigo
Cup, a race he won 12 months
ago. He was at 9 to 4, a good
price after latest efforts.
Sydney owners S. and V.
Walsh appear to have acquired
a smart Felcrag (imp.) filly in
Miss Windella, a winner of two
races in quick succession, a
Hawkesbury Maiden and New-
castle’s more important Northern
Stakes. The filly went out at
long odds for the first engage-
ment, her first public appearance,
but the run impressed and she
was a strongly-backed runner
at Newcastle. Her dam, Miss
Bodeven, was got by Bodyline
from Blue Devon by Drake
(imp.).
England’s famous horseman,
Sir Gordon Richards, keeps
making records, and one which
may never be broken in Turf
history is his remarkable aggre-
gate, now standing at 4836.
For the 26th time —another
fantastic run of success —he fin-
ished the 1953 season well
ahead of his nearest rival as
leading jockey. He won 191
races; it was the first time
since World War II that he
missed the double century, but
that most likely was due to his
accepting fewer mounts than
usual. Of the Australian jockeys
in England, Arthur Breasley
finished sixth on the list with
84 firsts, while Edgar Britt
(seventh) piloted 80 winners.
Owner Sir Victor Sassoon’s
horses won an aggregate of
£58,578. Incidentally, America’s
Johnny Longden has ridden up-
wards of 4000 winners.
There’s quite an Australian
literary atmosphere about the
titles for races to be run at
Randwick on the Monday,
December 28, public holiday.
Four of the seven events pro-
grammed are the Henry Kendall
Graduation Stakes, Banjo Pater-
son Handicap, Henry Lawson
Handicap and Adam Lindsay
Gordon Handicap. Monday,
December 14, is entry-day.
I?
“M.”: I hand it to Malua as
the greatest, being the most ver-
satile, horse of all time in Aus-
tralia, despite Phar Lap and
Carbine and others. Malua won
a Newmarket, Melbourne Cup,
Australian Cup (and, I think, an
Oakleigh Plate), and later in his
career a Grand National Hurdle,
and many other races as well.
Any nominations to beat that
record?
♦ * »
As was the case last year,
when Australia’s then prospec-
tive Davis Cup pair, Sedgman
and McGregor, fought out the
final (Sedgman winning), this
year’s singles final of the N.S.W.
lawn-tennis championships at
White City was between our
almost-certain-to-be Cup reps.
Hoad had won each of his previ-
ous four encounters with Rose-
wall this year, and on Saturday
he made it five in a row.
The pair, of course, are ex-
ponents of the different styles.
This time the “power” game had
the day. Hoad won in four sets,
8-6, 4-6, 9-7, 10-8 ; it was long
and hard-fought, with little be-
tween them. Though (playing
with a sore elbow) Hoad rarely
used his cannonball service, it
was his still-powerful service
which, keeping Rosewall on the
defensive, gave him the winning
advantage. His volleying and
smashes, also, were a bit too
good for Rosewall.
• • • •
The two Americans, Trabert
and Seixas, were plainly not at
their top. They have reverted
to the methods of 1946, when
Kramer and Schroeder, only
mediocre in the State champion-
ships, reached their top form to
annihilate Bromwich and Pails
in the Cup games. (In 1951-52,
on the contrary, Seixas had won
State titles but was beaten by
Sedgman in the Cup.) And, after
all, the regaining of the Cup is
the Americans’ mission here.
Hoad eliminated Trabert in a
semi-final. He began devastat-
ingly, and crashed through the
first two sets —his powerful ser-
vice too good for the American.
Trabert won the third set and
broke even, 5-5, in the fourth,
till Hoad finished the match with
another devastating burst, hold-
ing his own service to love and
taking Trabert’s without con-
ceding a point.
In the other semi-final Rose-
wall, the classical-stroke perfec-
tionist, gave Wimbledon title-
holder Seixas an object-lesson
in classical tennis. With prob-
ably the best backhand in the
amateur ranks today, Rosewall
played repeatedly to Seixas’s
backhand, keeping up the pres-
sure and finding a weakness
there. He countered Seixas’s
net-rushes by delicately-placed
lobs. Seixas, with no answer,
went down in straight sets, 6-4,
6-2, 6-3.
The doubles title was won by
Hoad and Rosewall, who beat
Trabert and Seixas in a five-set
game. Played on a dampened
court which lacked some of its
usual life, the game was a dour
struggle, with little between the
two pairs. Rosewall, apparently
more adversely affected by the
slow court than the others, was
generally below his best. He
was weak in service, dropping it
four times.
* * *
N.S.W. (in Brisbane) and
W.A. (against S.A., in Perth)
both won their Sheffield Shield
games on the first innings.
W.A.’s win was the more em-
phatic. This Friday N.S.W. and
S.A. start another affray in
Adelaide.
W.A. was skippered by Keith
Carmody, former Services and
N.S.W. batsman, whom Keith
Miller once chose to skipper his
ideal team. In W.A.’s first year
in the Shield comp, in 1947-48,
Carmody was captain-coach.
Setting a fine example to his in-
experienced team, and with some
good knocks to his credit, he had
a lot to do with W.A.’s winning
of the Shield that year. (In this
match he made 56 and 17.)
Last year Carmody, right out
of touch, was passed over, and
left-hander Wally Langdon, the
West’s most consistent run-
getter, became skipper; some
thought Langdon merited selec-
tion for England. Scoring a
bright 125 in a State-selection
trial match, he was picked to
lead the State against S.A., but
withdrew. That’s how Carmody
got in.
Tallon went out of big cricket
with a flourish —in Queensland’s
second innings against N.S.W.,
54 in just over half an hour! He
didn’t exactly enter big cricket
that way (he didn’t get going in
his first few innings), but since
then he’s shown similar form
plenty of times. One of his best
Test innings was his 92 in the
second innings of the third Test
against England in Melbourne
in 1946-47 (in the same innings,
and largely in partnership with
Tallon, Lindwall hit 100, the
fastest-made Test century).
Tallon has made more runs for
Queensland than any other bats-
man.
• • • #
Rated one of the greatest of
wicketkeepers, Tallon went to
England twice (1948 and 1953),
and was perhaps unlucky to
have missed in 1938. He played
in 21 Tests, 15 against England.
He holds several ’keeping
records —among them 12 dis-
missals in a match (1938-39) and
seven in an innings (also in
1938-39). In first-class cricket
only one other ’keeper has per-
formed the first feat, only four
or five others the second.


RAW SUGAR
PRODUCTION
Australian Raw
Sugar
Production
1949
909,700 tons
1950
896,800 ton9
1951
725,300 tons
1952
916,600 tons
1953
1,230,000 tons
Estimated figures for 1953.
Raw Sugar Production by
C.S.R.
Oo. MillB
[N.S.W.
Q 'land
Fiji
Tons
Tons
Tons
1949
39,500
155,100
126.000
1950
40,000
149,200
96,300
1951
40,000
132,000
112,700
1952,
13,900
172,600
130,300
1953]
32,000
204,000
190,000
Estimated figures for 1953.
Note:
C.S.K.
owns 7 of the 34
Australian raw sugar
mills (3
In N’.S.W. aDd 4 In Queensland)
and 5
mills In Fiji.
noises which the conductor con-
trolled with his usual remark-
able finesse, like a midwife get-
ting out of his players what they
didn’t know was in them. They
gave thanks for a successful
operation by singing “For He’s a
Jolly Good Fellow,” and the
audience responded with thun-
derous applause that lasted
almost as long as Mahler’s opus.
Thus the “permanent” conduc-
tor departed in a blaze of glory.
The last of the 1953 Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestral
subscription concerts at Mel-
bourne Town Hall directed by
Juan Jose Castro had for its
main item Hindemith’s “Har-
monies of the World,” based on
Pythagoras’s philosophy and
Kepler’s mathematics, Kepler
discovered the three laws of
planetary motion,- one of which
was that the areas described by
the radius vector of a planet are
proportional to the time taken
in describing them ; and Pythag-
oras, among other things, be-
lieved that the first principle of
the universe was number and was
thus the first founder of the
science of geometry as taught in
all Victorian State schools.
Some of the audience listening
to the performance who missed
out on these two subjects in their
schooldays may have thought
that they couldn’t possibly
understand the music. Others,
judging by the expressions on
their faces, were trying to fit
any Euclidean propositions they
could remember into the pro-
ceedings.
■ije
Austin Goldberg
This young Sydney composer
revealed, at a recital of his works
given at the N.S.W. Music
Lovers’ Club, a warm affinity
with the song-form. This was
manifested especially in a fine
cycle “Sea Music,” comprising
five songs which not only had
melodic strength in the vocal line
but accompaniments subtly evo-
cative of the subject. These were
sung by Victor Unsworth, who,
in addition to two pleasing
Christmas carols by the same
composer, brought the full
weight and resonance of his
splendid baritone to bear on
“Vision Fugitive” from “Hero-
diade.”
“Song in the Rain” and
“Spring Carol,” and two charm-
ing miniatures for a child, “Songs
for Susan,” were sung by
coloratura Rae Candy. Three
dances, also by Goldberg, were
played by flautist Walter Jaggers,
who also successfully negotiated
the speedy intricacies of “Carni-
val of Venice.”
The composer himself played
his “The Billabong” and “Con-
cert Waltz,” the first placidly
impressionistic, the latter contain-
ing a fair quota of lilting
rhythm ; and a “Study for the
Left Hand Alone.” His “Long
Live the Queen” was sung by
Miss Candy and Mr. Unsworth,
with flute obbligato,
Mr. Goldberg was accom-
panist to the solos for voice and
flute.
Talkies
“Fair Wind to Java” (Sydney
Palace); Hollywood made the
startling discovery that just be-
fore Krakatoa blew its head off
in 1883 a temple just below the
crater contained a fabulous col-
lection of jools, so they sent
hero Fred Mac Murray and vil-
lain Robert Douglas in different
ships to get ’em. There is a lot
of fierce fighting on the way
in which nobody is in any danger
of getting hurt, and the explo-
sion frustrates both parties. But
is it lethal to Fred, only a few
hundred yards away in his stout
little clipper when the greatest
known eruption ever to rack this
globe occurred? Never be in
doubt —it didn’t even scorch his
sails.
“Luxury Girls” (Sydney
•Esquire): The blurb-ad. set out
desperately to convey the im-
pression that this was either
about “call girls” or adolescent
delinquents with dark passions.
After all, why worry about
scaring-off the intelligent ones in
the community—who are well
aware that when Hollywood
plays on this theme it is usually
badly done —when the more
numerous morons in the com-
munity will be attracted to
cheap sensation?
As it turned out, this film is
an Italian-made one, well-
directed and thoughtful, the
setting a posh finishing-school
for girls of varied nationalities
in the Italian Alps. There are
some penetrating character-
studies, and play is naturally
made of the jealousies, the catti-
ness and the awakening of sex-
interest natural to girls of from
16 to 19.
Some of the scenes are treated
with admirable understanding,
one in particular in which an
overardent young man has has
passions cooled by dish of
water flung accurately by a
maiden who proposes to remain
one, and who immediately—and
naturally becomes hysterical.
Another, more poignant, is a
terror-stricken telephonic con-
versation with her English
parents by a young girl who has
to tell them she has been
expelled for theft.
The camera has been used
with some artistry in a night
search in the Alps for a missing
girl. Mostly unknowns, the girls
act generally with easy natural-
ness.
“Give a Girl a Break” (Sydney
St. James): This M.-G.-M.
musical puts the greater em-
phasis on the dance, as ex-
pounded by that excellent team
Marge and Gower Champion,
with good support from Debbie
Reynolds and Bob Fosse.
That hoary theme Backstage
is put to work again after hav-
ing had an almost-new angle
grafted on ; sets are spectacular,
with some freshness in the
dance numbers. Ira Gershwin’s
lyrics have wit and punch. Kurt
Kaznar turns in a neat piece of
character-work as a harassed
composer battling against clock,
producer and his own tempera-
ment.
“Blueprint for Murder”:
Joseph Gotten thinks his beauti-
ful widowed sister-in-law, Jean
Peters, poisoned his niece and
will poison his nephew to get
their money. There are some
good scenes among police inves-
tigators, who cannot prove their
suspiciqns. On the boat to
Europe, Gotten makes love to
the beautiful widow, and finds
in her cabin poison pills among
the aspirin. He puts one in her
glass; then tells her, and sits
back to see what she does. The
picture is not very well put to-
gether, and Gotten overcoming
his reluctance to poison his
sister-in-law is really funny, re-
viving memories of the extrava-
gant posturings of the days
when the flickers were speeded-
up and really flickered.
“The Stooge” (Sydney Prince
Edward): An f.a.q. example of
the kind of screwball comedy
which Dean Martin and Jerry
Lewis dispense, and only those
with a risible faculty tuned-in
to their particular wavelength
will appreciate it. The slapstick
is at times rather overpowering,
with the corny and the clever
rubbing shoulders with nary a
blush. As in their previous
efforts, Eddie Mayehoff aids
and abets and often gives the
impression that he should be
the top-liner.
“Desert Legion” (Sydney
Lyceum): Mental pap suitable
for the feeble-minded. There is
the usual beautifully-groomed
princess whose father's Algerian
city is menaced by a usurper,
and the gallant Foreign Legion
captain who goes ack-willie to
rescue her.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR
REFINING COMPANY
LIMITED
Points from the General Manager's
Report to Shareholders
Record Raw Sugar Production
Big C.S.R. Works Programme
High Costs of Chemical Manufacture
In his report to shareholders of The Colonial
Sugar Refining Co. Ltd., Dr. R, W, Harman,
General Manager, said that about 8| million
tons of cane would be harvested in Australia
during the present season. A record production
of 1,230,000 tons of raw sugar is expected
over 30% better than the previous record.
Dr. Harman said that production of raw
sugar at C.S.R. mills in Australia and Fiji was
expected to reach a record 426,000 tons, over
100,000 tons more than last year. (C.S.R. owns
7 of Australia’s 34 raw sugar mills, and 5
mills in Fiji.)
Record tonnages in
all districts in Queens-
land have been due to
favourable weather con-
ditions and greatly-
increased areas under
cane. Output of raw
sugar in N.S.W. is
recovering.
It is unlikely that either
home or overseas markets
will permit of any further
large-scale expansion of the
Australian raw sugar in-
dustry for some time to
come.
The Company is con-
tinuing with its £4 million
programme to expand the
capacity of its refineries so
that adequate supplies of
refined sugar should be en-
sured for many years to
come.
Fiji
The present season in
Fiji is exceeding best ex-
pectations, and the latest
estimate of raw sugar pro-
duction there is 45% above
the output in 1952.
Lautoka Mill has crushed
26,000 tons of cane a week
from nearly 700,000 tons of
cane grown in the district.
International
Sugar Agreement
An International Sugar
Agreement was drafted by
delegates from thirty-seven
countries at the United
Nations Sugar Conference
in London last July. A
sufficient number of Govern-
ments of the countries
concerned will have to
ratify the Agreement be-
fore it is operative.
The proposed Interna-
tional Agreement includes
annual export quota pro-
visions for 600,000 tons
raw sugar for Australia,
and 170,000 tons raw sugar
for Fiji.
Refined Sugar
Sales in Australia
Sales for the year ended
30th September, 1953, were
420,000 tons, about 17%
less than the preceding
year. Reduction of stocks
built up by purchasers
prior to the refined sugar
price increase in 1952,
and a loss of some export
markets for foods contain-
ing sugar and ‘ ‘ sugar in
disguise” are factors con-
tributing to reduced sales.
New Zealand
The Auckland refinery
expansion programme is
well advanced.
Industrial Alcohol
Cheap in Australia
Industrial alcohol is a
basic material used in the
manufacture of a variety
of products. Throughout
war and immediate post-
war years, the Company’s
price for this product was
much lower than in any
other major alcohol produc-
ing country.
The Company is still
selling alcohol more cheaply
than in the TJ.S.A. and
U.K., despite some price
increase in more recent
years.
It is hoped that the
Company will be able to
continue in this sound posi-
tion. Low and stable alco-
hol prices contribute to the
stability of many Austra-
lian manufactures.
High Costs of
Chemical Manufacture
The Rhodes factories of
C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
were officially opened by
His Excellency the Gover-
nor-General on 24th July.
Deliveries of cellulose
acetate are being made
to Oourtaulds (Australia)
Limited for conversion into
acetate rayon yam. Sales
of other chemicals showed
a marked improvement over
the past six months.
Dr. R. W. Harman, General
Manager, The Colonial Sugar
Refining Company Ltd.
In common with many
other manufacturers, we
are very much affected by
the high costs in the Aus-
tralian chemical industry.
The sharp rises in the cost
of construction of specia-
lised chemical plant over
the last five years, together
with the greatly increased
costs of materials and ser-
vices, such as coal, elec-
tricity and gas have placed
a heavy burden on chemi-
cal manufacturers. These
increases have come at a
time when overseas chemi-
cal prices are, in general,
falling.
It has been necessary for
us to apply to the Tariff
Board for protection on
our cellulose acetate flake
manufacture and the hear-
ing is now in progress.
Building Materials
Sales of our building
materials were 25% above
those in the previous six
months. The demand should
be maintained as the build-
ing industry generally has
managed to place itself
again on a more stable
basis.
Sales of our hardboard
“Timbrock” have been
particularly good. The
range of floor tiles was in-
creased recently with a
Vinyl tile.
C.S.R.'s Current Development
The Company’s pro-
gramme of development
and expansion continues.
Since the war we have
undertaken over £l4 mil-
lion of replacement and
capital work in Australia,
Fiji and New Zealand.
The additions to our
Victoria Mill in Queensland
cost about £3 million. We
are spending over £2s
million expanding our Mac-
knade, Goondi and Ham-
bledon Mills in Queensland.
In Fiji, the Lautoka boiler
station has been replaced
at a cost of £300,000 and
£200,000 is being spent on
the boiler station at Rara-
wai Mill.
We are half-way through
an expansion programme
of more than £4 million
for our sugar refineries in
Australia and New Zealand.
Over £1 million is being
spent at Pyrmont (Sydney)
Refinery on plant for re-
ceiving and storing raw
sugar and coal in bulk.
With the Distillers Com-
pany Limited, of London,
we have established a new
chemical industry in Aus-
tralia at a cost of £4s
million. We have opened
up a blue asbestos mine
with a township of 700
people in the Hamersley
Ranges in West Australia.
The Company is also
mining gypsum in Victoria
and New South Wales and
has built several factories
to manufacture an exten-
sive range of building
materials.
£BO million
worth of Goods
The goods the Company
produces are basic —food-
stuffs, building materials,
industrial and pharmaceu-
tical chemicals foods,
shelter, chemicals and medi-
cines for the people.
Our factories made over
£BO million worth of goods
in the year ended 31st
March, 1953.
This production and de-
velopment makes a signifi-
cant contribution to the
material well-being of Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and
Fiji.


arra
WORSTED SUITINGS. You are assured of the
finest cjoth made in Australia, from pure Australian virgin
wool, when you see the famous Yarra Falls name or»
worsted suitings.
The Hall Mark of Quality
VAR AA FALLS LTD., ABBOTSFORD, N,9.
m
i
VICTORIA
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE BAN ON CHINA
“Are not the British Laborites,
especially the Bevanite wing of
that party, getting a little pre-
vious in their insistence that Red
China be given a chair in a
large, genial circle where by-
gones could be bygones and
everyone could be conveniently
color-blind to the hue of spilled
blood?” “ Christian Science
Monitor” ( Boston, U.S.A.).
“Nothing is more certain than
that the West will have ultimately
to face and resolve a question
which it has hitherto preferred to
steer around: Under what con-
ditions are we the United
States, Britain and France to-
gether—prepared to contemplate
the admission of Communist
China to world counsels? Not
even in Washington is it authori-
tatively held that the Peking
Government shall never enter the
United Nations. Nor, on the
other hand, is it authoritatively
held in London that the Com-
munist Chinese should be im-
mediately seated,” London
‘‘News Chronicle.”
Nothing could be much more
certain, either, than that this
will be a topic of discus-
sion at the Bermuda meeting.
There’s a vast gap of difference
to bridge.
One British voice against ad-
mitting Communist China to
U.N.O. —at any rate, for the
present —is that of London
“Daily Telegraph” (most are em-
phatically for; this is by no
means restricted to “Bevan-
ites”):
“Mr. Attlee has declared that
China should be admitted ‘as
soon as her support for aggres-
sion has stopped,’ apparently on
the ground that the Com-
munists are the de facto rulers
of China.
“When somebody was tactless
enough to ask whether this argu-
ment applied to Spain and if not,
why not, Mr. Attlee was caught
off,his balance. His answer was
to express a feeling that Spain
would not subscribe to the prin-
ciples of the United Nafions,
whereas, ‘generally speaking,’
Communist China would. Mer-
cifully, foreign policy in Mr.
Attlee’s Administrations was not
conducted wholly on this kind
of ectoplasm of Hitler’s ‘intui-
tion.’
“Mr. Attlee’s statements beg a
legion of questions: When does
he think China’s ‘support for
aggression’ will have stopped?
Has it stopped already with the
Korean armistice? Surely not,
since it continues unabated in
Indo-China, What are the
‘principles of the United Nations’
to which China conforms? Not
democracy in our sense ; not the
‘four freedoms’ in any sense.
“It is conceivable that some
day or other Communist China
should be admitted for those
same practical reasons as should
have dictated the admission of
Spain long ago and have dic-
tated toleration of the continued
membership of many Com-
munist States. But to admit her
on the score that a Left-wing
dictatorship is less offensive,
dangerous or oppressive than a
Right-wing dictatorship, or need
do less before earning the free
world’s trust, is utterly foolish.
Let us see how we get on with
China before rushing to embrace
her. Anything else would make
the ‘United Nations’ more of a
misnomer than it is already.”
London “Economist,” too,
while it considers the drawing-
together of British and' U.S.
policies on China to be the most
urgent task of diplomacy as re-
gards the Far East, has some
very solid doubts about Mao and
co. A “rank growth of illu-
sions,” it says, has grown up
about the Maos in both Eastern
and Western minds, and before
any useful settlement can be
reached in the Far East this
growth will have to be cut away.
There is, it notes, no expres-
sion of any shadow of guilt or
accepted responsibility for the
Korean war, “one year of which
bloodshed was caused exclu-
sively by Peking’s demand for
the surrender of its own fugitive
conscripts, a demand eventually
dropped as blandly as it had
been made. What is, perhaps,
surprising is the extent to which
Mao Tse-tung sees himself not
only as wholly innocent, but also
as the victor over the United
States and its allies.”
In fact “unrepentant bragga-
docio now prevails in Peking”:
“This mood has apparently led
Mao Tse-tung’s Government to
base its post-armistice policies
on two assumptions. The first
is that China now holds a com-
manding position in the Far
East as a whole; the second,
that the differences of view and
interest between the non-Com-
munist nations are so wide that
China, by working on them, can
secure all its political objec-
tives,
“To judge from much that is
said and written in the free
world, Mao’s delusions are
widely shared. The Chinese
problem is often discussed pure y
in terms of the readiness with
which each successive demand
from Peking should be satisfied,
Yet between these assumptions
and the realities of Communist
“Washington Post"
“... .or do you want me to do the talking?”
China’s position yawns a huge
gap.
“In the first place, despite all
its trumpeting of victory, Peng
Teh-huai’s great army did not
win the Korean war. It signally
failed to achieve its declared
intention of overrunning South
Korea —while, on the other
hand, the United Nations punc-
tiliously realised its original
military objective of freeing
South Korea from the aggressor.
“True, the Chinese Ijave held
their line; but they have been
able to do so only because none
of the nations that came to
South Korea’s defence wanted
to make the conflict an all-out
war.
“It is also true that Communist
China emerges from the war as
a considerable military Power.
Yet its offensive strength is still
severely limited, both by its lack
of naval forces and by its de-
pendence on Soviet armaments ;
and its military expansion has
been accompanied by the ex-
haustion of its North Korean
ally.” '
On the general issue of
“recognising” Communist China,
London “Times” has summed-
up the widely different U.S.-
British conceptions, which
Prime Minister and President
will now be trying to reconcile,
along with (in the Pacific-area
part of their talks) Anzus and
all that:
“The British view is that to
extend recognition to a Gov-
ernment is a question of fact,
implying neither praise nor
blame for the Government
recognised. A Government
which is in effective control of
the country it claims to speak
for, and which is capable of
fulfilling its normal international
obligations, deserves to be
treated as the effective Govern-
ment of that country. From this
it follows that recognition
should not be offered as a re-
ward for good behavior or with-
drawn as a punishment for bad
behavior. Recognition can also
rarely be used with any profit as
a counter in diplomatic bargain-
ing. In so far as diplomacy is
the art of reconciling differences
of opinion, diplomatic repre-
sentation becomes increasingly
valuable the more differences
there are to be reconciled.
“To many Americans this
point of view appears cynical
or even immoral. They dis-
tinguish between the characters
as well as the capacities of
foreign regimes, and believe that
recognition should be judged by
ethical in addition to practical
tests.
Hence the U.S. stand is
emphatically against, a view
which, “New York Times”
points out, is not that of a few
shrill propagandists or some
mythical “China lobby” but is
“the sober judgment of the over-
whelming majority of the people
of the United States”:
“That overwhelming
majority,” it adds, -“is pro-
foundly opposed to recognition
or admission of the Red Chinese
at this time and under prevailing
conditions.
“The attitude of Americans
is based on grounds that are not
matters of legalism or expedi-
ency. It is based on moral
grounds that are matters of prin-
ciple. Quite apart from the
absurd idea that an aggressor
should be allowed to shoot its
way into an organisation to
oppose aggression, or, having
failed in that, should be allowed
to weasel its way in to argue
about the conditions upon which
it will desist from aggression,
there is a strong basis of Ameri-
can conviction that America’s
allies should take into account.
“Burke may have been right
when he said that one could not
indict a nation, but one can
indict a regime. The American
people have indicted the Red
Chinese hierarchy for manifest
and heinous crimes. It is there-
fore intolerable to them to
countenance fraternal traffick-
ing with the criminals, in the
name of ‘realism’ or expediency.
“Those crimes have been
proved. There is, first of all,
the crime of aggression, upon
which the United Nations itself
has recorded its judgment against
Peiping. This is an aggression,
moreover, not merely against the
United Nations but against the
Korean people, of both the north
and the south. There is no
evidence whatsoever that the
Red regime has repented of this
crime or intends to renounce it.
It was an aggressor, is still an
aggressor, and gives no promise
of being or becoming anything
else.
“There is the now amply
established record of criminally
atrocious behavior toward
prisoners-of-war. This is a
record not merely of cnmina
neglect but of torture, sadism,
blackmail and murder. Red
China has given not even a sign
of regret over the results of these
outrages.
“Conditions in Red China may
change. There is no evidence,
as yet, of any desire or willing-
ness for such change on the part
of mainland China’s Red con-
querors, Unless and until there


TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL I fell HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Your guests
will know
you serve
the best
N.S.W. Distributors:
TOOTH & CO. LIMITEI
is such a change Americans will
continue to oppose embracing
that which is evil.”
Churchill Explains
Text of Sir Winston
Churchill’s statement on Britain’s
policy of “full support” for a
European Army with German
divisions in it:
“There are, no doubt, some
Socialist politicians who hope
to win popularity both by carp-
ing and sneering at the United
States and by raising hostility to
the new Germany.
“Of course it is vital to main-
tain ever-strengthening ties of
friendship with the United
States. It would also be a disaster
if Germany were needlessly
made an enemy of Britain and
the free world against her will.
It is nearly four years ago since
I said that Western Europe
could never be defended against
Soviet Russia without German
military aid. Mr. Attlee de-
nounced that statement as irres-
ponsible. But a year later he
and his colleagues committed
themselves and all of us to the
arrangements for European de-
fence which involved the crea-
tion of 12 German divisions.
“We [the Conservative Gov-
ernment] inherited these arrange-
ments and pledges, which in-
volve British good faith, from
our predecessors, the very men
who, some of them because they
are not in office, think they are
entitled to cast aside the work
that they have done and the
position to which they have com-
mitted us.
“At the present time the
Soviet armies in Europe, even
without their satellites, are four
times as strong as all the Wes-
tern allies put together. It
would indeed be an act of un-
wisdom to weaken our efforts to
build up a Western defence. It
would be madness to make our
heavily-burdened island take up
an attitude which, if not hostile,
was, at any rate, unsympathetic
both to the United States and to
the new Germany which Dr.
Adenauer is building, and yet
remain bound by the treaties
which the Socialists have made
to defend friendly European
Powers who are incapable of
maintaining themselves alone.
“I am sure that the decisions
taken by the Socialist Govern-
ment, which were supported by
us at the time and are now being
carried forward steadfastly and
soberly by her Majesty’s Gov-
ernment, constitute the best
chance —and indeed, I think it a
good chance —of getting through
this awful period of anxiety with-
out a world catastrophe.”
Return of the Bear
Russia’s leaders, in the view
of London “Time and Tide,”
have now abandoned the “grand
tactical manoeuvre” initiated
after Stalin’s death, when they
were temporarily in a state of
disorder and panic and ap-
peared peacefully inclined.
“If some of them did suffer
a slight change of heart and were
inc/ined to come to some sort
of understanding with the West,
it is safe to say that they have
now been silenced and that the
protagonists of the tough, dog-
matic Marxist policy are in the
ascendant.
“Their major aim is to con-
solidate their grip on the terri-
tories now in their control and
to integrate the whole of the
‘Socialist camp,’ including Com-
munist China, into Soviet mili-
tary and economic planning.
For this they need, above all,
time.”
Peking Needed Peace
Any disappointment t o
America and its U.N.O. sup-
porters in the Korean war is at
least matched by similar feeling
on the Chinese side, in the view
of a New York “Herald Tri-
bune” correspondent summing-
up from “the vantage-point of
Hong Kong.”
From there, he comments, it
is possible to assess the severe
strain that their effort in Korea
imposed on the Chinese Com-
munists :
“They were not just losing
mass manpower in Korea. They
were losing their best soldiers
and officers. And they were not
just using Russian equipment in
Korea. They were paying for
that equipment through the
nose with exports which the
Chinese economy could ill-
afford.
“To the Chinese Communist
leader, the high price no doubt
seemed well worth paying for
the immense gain of becoming
the dominant military Power in
Asia. But it can hardly be
doubted, either, that the price
began to be unbearable as the
Korean war dragged on and on.
“The evidence is overwhelm-
ing, in fact, that the Peking Gov-
ernment desperately wanted to
bring the fighting to an end as
long ago as last autumn.”
Forgetting the Navy
Admiral of the Fleet Viscount
Cunningham of Hyndhope, in
the course of a London “Daily
Telegraph” article on Britain’s
future war strategy, debunks
“the fallacy of the air-theorist”
that that arm alone will do the
job.
Control of the seas, he con-
tends, will be as important as
ever ; “the decisive and immedi-
ate success so confidently
promised from atomic bombing
may well prove illusory.” He
concludes;
“The histories, statistics and
memoirs of the last war, already
published, leave one in no doubt
at all that it was shipping, and
always shipping, which condi-
tioned every strategic move by
ourselves [Britain] and our
Allies. We suffered, for the
second time in this century,
enormous and very nearly dis-
astrous losses because we failed
to devote sufficient of our re-
sources in good enough time to
protect that shipping.
“Yet there are unmistakable
signs today that we intend to let
similar circumstances arise once
more by devoting our main re-
sources to the strategic theory
which I have already con-
demned, while leaving the vast
mass of our merchant shipping
a prey to the enemy’s onslaught.
“No one who has twice in his
lifetime come through the ordeal
of seeing Britain’s sea-communi-
cations very nearly severed and
the country brought to the verge
of defeat can ever forget the
simple, but easily forgotten, say-
ing that ‘if we lose at sea we lose
the war.’ ”
Krupps
Back on the job again they’re
inspected by London “Time and
Tide”:
“In 1918 it was hoped that
Krupps guns would be per-
manently beaten into plough-
shares, and so, for a period, they
were. Nevertheless, these inde-
fatigable iron-masters contri-
bute 4 more than any other Ger-
man ° firm towards forging the
weapons which plunged the
world into disaster in 1939.
“Now we are back in the
ploughshares period, so far as
Krupps are concerned. While
we must earnestly hope that they
will confine themselves to peace-
ful industry, even this prospect
is sufficiently alarming. Krupps,
in their methods of manufac-
ture and salesmanship, now
eight years after the German de-
feat, are completely re-equipped
and re-tooled and challenging
other countries by new methods
of marketing and salesmanship.
“Krupps salesmen are to be
found in every underdeveloped
area in the world, including
parts of the British Common-
wealth. By offering to accept
payment for machinery delivered
in the form of shares in the
undertaking which is buying
their equipment, Krupps are suc-
cessfully following a policy of
economic penetration, much on
the lines of that adopted by the
Nazi Government in central and
south-eastern Europe before the
war. This is perhaps scarcely
surprising, since Dr. Schacht, the
architect of the Nazi trade
London “Daily Express”
PREPARATIONS FOR A CHARM OFFENSIVE
policy, has now placed his re-
markable talents at the service
of German industry.”
Japan's Future Trade
In the view of London
“Times’s” Tokio correspondent,
if Japan is ever to regain
economic stability she will have
to correct her present industrial
shortcomings, among which he
lists too high costs, outdated
production methods and infla-
tionary finance.
Then, he adds, Japan will
have to find markets in Asia:
“Like the rest of the free world,
she will have to reach a modus
vivendi with China. That she
will be a competitor of the
United Kingdom is inevitable ;
that she will undercut prices as
severely as she did before the
war is unlikely. At the moment
she is struggling to reduce her
export prices to the level of
world prices.”
Case for France
“However much we may de-
plore the relative weakness of
France,” comments London
“Time and Tide,” “however
much we may choose to blame
her, the fact remains that
as things stand Germany will,
after the ratification of the
European Defence Community
agreement, be the predominant
military Power in Western
Europe,
“It is quite possible that the
German leopard may, in the
past eight years, have com-
pletely changed his spots, and
that Germany’s relative military
strength will be an influence for
nothing but good. Yet the
French may be forgiven for
accepting this theory only with
quite a number of mental reser-
vations.”
The Soviet Dilemma
The Red Army, leading
American foreign-affairs writer
Walter Lippmann points out in
New York “Herald Tribune,”
cannot stay in the centre of Ger-
many for more than a few years
at the outside:
“If it stays too long there will
surely be a German national
explosion in which all of the
occupying Powers will be in-
volved. On the other hand, it is
very dangerous for the Soviets to
withdraw their Army. For such
are the hatreds caused by the
Stalinist oppression that in all
likelihood the satellite Govern-
ments would be overthrown by
fanatically anti-Soviet uprisings
as the Red Army withdrew.
“This Soviet dilemma —that it
is dangerous for them to stay and
dangerous for them to leave —is
the real problem of security,
Soviet propaganda, naturally
enough, never mentions it. But
there can be little doubt that this
is what the Russians are really
worrying about when they say
that the United States and Nato
are conspiring to start a war.”
Various Voices
Sir Winston Churchill: “Do
not let us underrate the strength
and quality of British industry
and .inventiveness. The task of
maintaining 50 million people
in this small island at a level
superior to the average Euro-
pean standards might indeed
appal a bold man. But when
the life and death of our country
are at stake we have sometimes
found ways and means of helping
one another which no other
society has been able to surpass
in peace or war.”
German Chancellor Adenauer:
“To my mind there is no prob-
lem, be it ever so complicated
and difficult, for which negotia-
tions cannot produce far more
enduring settlements than could
be obtained by force, which, as
the past teaches us, will only call
forth ever new conflicts.”
Britain’s Chancellor of the
Exchequer, R. A. Butler: “A
modern Budget must do some-
thing even more fundamental
than find the money to pay the
very large bills of the Govern-
ment. It is designed to release
or control spending in this or
that part of our complex body
economic, so that we can expand
without the evils of inflation or
deflation. We get a pretty wide
view of the landscape and of
the economic climate from the
pilot’s seat of our great aircraft.
We continually watch needles
on the dials as we forge ahead.
So far as I can tell, we are
steering a fairly even course at
present between the primrose
path and the waste land.”
President Eisenhower;
“America’s dependence on for-
eign trade is one of the critical
facts of our national life.”
British Socialist Herbert Mor-
rison: “It is contradictory to
assume that public expenditure
comes from some inexhaustible
Father Christmas called the
State. Never forget that in some
way or other it must be pro-
vided by industry.”
British rep. at U.N.0., Sel-
wyn Lloyd: “As soon as any
agreement with the Iron Cur-
tain countries is mooted, there
are some people in the countries
of the free world who start to
talk of appeasement, using that
word as a term of abuse, denot-
in g dishonorable surrender.
Negotiation is not the same
thing as appeasement. The
twentieth century has had little
experience of making peace by
negotiation.”
Dr. Garbett, Archbishop of
York: “While industrialism en-
courages many good virtues, the
rush of life, the desire to escape
from boredom, the pools, the
mass amusements and the fear of
silence lead to the atrophy of
the spiritual in man. There is no
time for delay. Our civilisation
may be nearer its end than we
like to think.”


■
HARRY
DEARTH
4m
0
n
m
Featuring GEORGE FOSTER and a panel of outstanding women.
Presented by Malgic Adrenaline Cream
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2HR 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
yke MACQUARIE
CAS T IN 6 S EUNICE
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK BURDON late of Beard
and Stafford Streets Windsor Brisbane.—
TAKE NOTCE that DULCIE RITA
BURDON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3660 of 1953 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 28th January 1954 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from WHITEHEAD. FERRANTI
& GREEN, Solicitors, of 92 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—IN Divorce.
TO ROBERT DANDLES UEBEL late of
55 Market Street Randwick N.S.W. and
Flat 1 “Dalkeith” Mount Street Ooogee,
N.S.W—TAKE NOTICE that PEARL
MARGARET MARY UEBEL has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 542 of 1953 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or
before the 26th January 1954 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
A. D. McKENZIE, Solicitor, 160 Castlo-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Missing Friend
WOULD ERIC EDWARD SHEGOG, late
of Tasmania but recently of Prahran, but
now of parts unknown, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts, please communicate with
MESSRS. JONES AND KENNEDY, Soli-
citors, Footscray, Victoria?
COUNTRY
PROPERTIES
Lystertield,
Wellington Hoad
AUCTION, SAT., NOV. 28,
AT 3 P.M.
DAIRY FARM—IIO ACRES.
80 ac. freehold, 30 ac. leasehold,
1 2 well-fenced paddocks sown rye
and clover; 7-room w/bd. HOME.
Dairy milking machine sheds,
E.L. connected to machine and
house; school, P.O. at front gate,
main Govt, through road; only
16 miles Melbourne.
£5OO dep. Bal. 30 days.
PAGE’S ESTATE AGENCY
Boronia, Bayswater 42 & 35.
UPPER GULLY, F.T.G. 430.
complaining, the Austrian —he is
a manufacturer of women’s
clothes who has had a little suc-
cess since he has come here, and
now thinks he is someone. But
I was telling you about my em-
ployer. He pointed out that he
was doing something for me.
After all, he didn’t want me. A
native klopper would have suited
him better. So, since he had to
eat, I continued in that miserable
life. I also wrote to my sister
Leah.”
He lit another cigarette. “Your
mother helped us, as I knew
she would, but it took a long
time. A weary time. Your aunt
cried and cried as our ship came
into Sydney Harbor.
“Your mother and father were
there to meet us, and they drove
us out to the nice house they
had. There was a room for us,
rich meals. It was wonderful.
But I had no money. I didn’t
like to say anything to Leah
after all she had done for us,
but I saw your father one night,
asked him about work. Per-
haps there was something I
could do at the shop? He said
‘Not this week, Leon. This
week you must rest. But on
Monday come and see me at
the shop.’ In the meantime
there were plenty of cigarettes,
good coffee, good food. I
waited till Monday.”
LEON half-closed his eyes,
watching the smoke curl up.
“Your father was a very intelli-
gent man, Joe. Some people said
he was a hard man. Certainly
he was a different man in his
shop, in business, quite a dif-
ferent man to the man at
home, with Leah and you chil-
dren. But he was intelligent; he
understood how people’s minds
worked, and that was why he
was good at business. ‘Well,
Leon,’ he said, when I went into
his office —he didn’t stand up,
didn’t smile ‘what are you
going to do?’ I said I would
try and get a job and said,
smiling a little, that uneasy
smile X had learnt, could he
give me something to do in the
shop?
“He was smoking a cigar—
he loved his cigars, your father
—and he stared at it thoughtfully
for a second or two, then care-
fully flicked the ash into a
basket. No, he said, he didn’t
think he could give me a job
in the shop, there was no place
for me. Then he wrote some-
thing on a piece of notepaper
and handed it to me. It was
the address of a warehouse in
Clarence-street. ‘Take that,’ he
said, ‘and ask for Mr. Davis.
Tell Mr. Davis I sent you, and
pick some ties —good, bright ties.
As many as you like. Then go
around all. the hotels and sell
them. I’ll expect you back here’
—he looked at his watch —‘at six
o’clock with the money.*
“I went with a heavy heart.
I didn’t speak English very
well then, remember—and in a
strange country. Still, I went,
and whether I was lucky, or
desperate, or because there was
a shortage of ties, I don’t know,
but before six o’clock, by three
o’clock that afternoon, I was
back in your father’s shop with
all the ties sold and a bundle
of banknotes. A good profit on
each tie —something like sixty
per cent. I handed the money
over to your father, and waited,
smiling—like a dog waiting for
a bone. Your father put the
money in his pocket—all of
it.”
“All of it?” Joe said, startled.
“But surely he I mean, the
profit ...”
“No,” Leon said calmly, “He
kept that. After all, it was
his capital. But he did some-
thing else —he gave me back my
confidence. After that I got a
job as a salesman. In a few
months I had saved enough to
risk buying clothes wholesale —
on your father’s advice —and I
sold them in the country, door
to door. It was good profit,
while it lasted, which wasn’t for
long. After that I was lucky
in one thing and another. When
I went into the importing and
exporting business your father
backed me, but by then he knew
he took no risk. Later, it was
I who backed him.”
“I see,” said Joe, frowning.
“But it was a bit mean —taking
the money when you needed
it
“No,” Leon said, smiling. It
was not mean. It was wise. And
I have always been grateful.
Now, as for you, I have told
your mother I will help you.
But I will not lend you money.
You have a car, and a lot of
surplus stock. ■ Good. Go out
in the back-country and klopper
it. Now I must go. I have an
appointment.”
• He put on his coat and care-
fully arranged his tie.
his blows smacked on Rusty’s
head and body like hoof beats.
This looked even easier, and I
was annoyed with Rusty for
putting up such a clumsy per-
formance. His aim was dis-
orderly, and he seemed to wal-
low around like an awkward
calf.
When he came back to his
corner his nose was bleeding,
although they were using twelve-
ounce gloves as big as pillows.
“When I warm up,” he
puffed, “I’ll show this dancing-
doll something.”
“Watch him,” I said. “He’s
clever.”
In the second round Ern was
the one who warmed up. He
bounced in a fast schottische
around Rusty, and his gloves
snapped and crackled like the
dance of lightning in ironstone
country. He did it all without
venom or effort, like a trades-
man driving rivets. His punches
banged on Rusty’s face and ribs
as impersonally as if Rusty were
just a novel punching-bag, a
problem in distance and direc-
tion.
As a by-product. Rusty was
getting the father of a hiding.
His lip was split and he was be-
coming distinctly bad-tempered.
Ern was making him look a
fool and Rusty knew it.
In the third round Rusty de-
cided that it was time that he
made a showing, I saw him
getting into a see-saw attitude,
and the next moment there it
was —The Old One-Two. It sur-
prised Ern. Both punches went
home, but the right missed the
chin and fell on Em’s collar-
bone. Even so it sent him back
a few feet, and for the first time
he lost his expression of uncon-
cern. His eyes opened, and a
look of interest appeared on his
pale features.
Rusty hurled a few hopeful
swings, which Ern blocked, and
then he uncorked The Old One-
Two again. But this time Em’s
feet scissored in a flash, and he
side-stepped the whole enter-
prise. As Rusty went past, all
out of control, Ern hit him be-
hind the ear quite calmly.
I watched Rusty picking him-
self up off the floor. It was like
the end of an era.
Rusty evidently thought the
whole thing an accident, because
he hopefully saddled up again
with The Old One-Two. Ern
bowled him over twice more, in
exactly the same machinelike
manner, and it began to dawn
on Rusty that his pet punch was
a dead loss.
He looked very dejected for
the remainder of the round,
during which Ern hammered
home a couple of dozen more
rivets. When Rusty came back
to his corner he said nothing,
but stretched out both his
freckled arms so that I could
untie his gloves.
WHILE Rusty was under the
* * shower. Bill Gogelly
brought his misery-laden face
across to me.
“Pretty strong, your mate,” he
said. “But he’s got a' packet to
learn. Come back tomorrow for
another try-out, and I’ll see
about it.”
“Right,” I said. But we didn’t
go back to Bill Gogelly’s the
next day or any other day.
Rusty went about for the rest
of the afternoon with a stricken
look, and he said nothing at all.
I gave up conversation when I
found that Rusty was answering
in fragments of animal language.
I tried to cheer the poor devil
up, but he was crushed under
the collapse of his hopes, and
nothing I could say seemed to
penetrate the fog of his
depression.
At dinner he seemed to be in a
stupor, eating from memory. I
didn’t feel like suggesting any-
thing to do that night; it was a
case of going to bed early, that
was obvious. Rusty was under
the covers before nine, and he
turned his back on me and
Paddington without saying good-
night. Ten minutes later I threw
the evening paper away and
switched the light off.
I have always had the habit
of going to sleep by lying first on
my right side for a few minutes,
until I reach a certain stage of
composure. Then I roll over to
the left and drop off. On this
night I had no sooner turned
over than the light came on, and
Rusty was walking about in his
pyjamas.
I asked him what was the
matter.
“The Mail goes at half-past
ten,” he said. “I’m going to catch
it.”
“What? Gunnimba?” I said.
“But what are you going to tell
them”
“Think about that after.”
Rusty was pulling his clothes on
with rough urgency. “You
coming?”
\l[7E caught the Mail with six
™ minutes to spare. Rusty
watched until the lights of
Central slid out of view, and then
he relaxed at last, curled up and
went to sleep. I wasn’t sorry to
follow suit.
When I woke, it was broad
daylight, and the train was
coursing through long stretches
of ripe wheat. The crops were
very good that year, and there
is nothing more soothing than
wide seas of wheat, lifting and
subsiding peacefully with the
soaring train and the slow curves
of the earth. Single trees here
and there in the crop, their green
enriched against the blazing
yellow and generally a pair of
galahs, rising and falling too,
keeping pace with the train and
with each other.
Rusty knew all this as well as
I did. I think he had opened his
eyes first; he was leaning back
in his corner and looking con-
tentedly out of his window,
breathing the light, dry air. I
didn’t say anything; I waited
for him to discover that I was
awake, too.
I fancied he was looking more
like his old self; in fact, he
seemed to improve with every
mile that fell behind. At last he
turned his head and grinned.
“Country looks good,” he said.
And then he slid along the
cushion towards me. He tilted
his head like a magpie, and the
comedian’s leer looked out of
his face.
“Heard a beaut down there,” he
said. “About the corkscrew..
THE BLANKET
I found that blanket branded “Alice Springs,
and made my bed with it in stones and sand
where like a lyre the casuarina sings
across a region like a shrivelled hand.
And I, too, lost it in some place, for then
possessions wearied me, and it seemed best
to travel light and clean as other men
who tramped towards a campfire in the west;
who came and made their fires beside those scant
water-holes where thin dream
and painted-finches drink, or the hesitant
red-gold-ringleted lorikeets swoop and scream.
N.S.W,
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.


BRAND OF PHENOTHIAZiNE
THE MOST EFFICIENT
WORM DRENCH
Phenothiazine stops egg production of the
few worms remaining after drenching for 2-3
weeks. Do not infest your paddocks. Drench
with “PHENOVIS” and place your stock on
clean pasture.
INFECTIVE
DROPPINGS
WORMY SHEEP NOT DRENCHED
Up to 5,000,0® 0 eggs
passed daily to infest
pastures.
£? —
gm * \f w
SHEEP TREATED WITH BLUE-
STONE - NICOTINE, up
to 1,000,000 eggs passed
daily to infest pastures.
r \\
SHEEP TREATED WITH
PHENOTHIAZINE Very
few eggs passed—pastures
dean.
L7 \
VJ
.V.
One of a series of advertisements designed to convey as a
simple story the results of many years of research. Acknowledg-
ment is made to many research workers whose results have been
published in the Australian Veterinary Journal and elsewhere.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
ICI
■PHE. ISX. 4111'
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
?/.
SBBB
m
mini
hi k ill
THE ECONOMIC PATTERN.
Through the pattern of the world’s
economy run the warp and weft
of Steam and Electricity, the
most important sources of world
industrial power; and the most
important factor in the production
of Steam, either for generating
electricity or for industrial pro-
cessing, is BABCOCK steam
raising plant, made by the world’s
largest manufacturers of boilers
and boilerhouse equipment.
Makers of
POWER STATION,
INDUSTRIAL and
MARINE BOILERS
and boiierhouse equipment.
dfg
BABCOCK
STEAM
RAISING PLANT
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
Head Office and Works: Regents Park, N.S.W.
Branch Offices in all States
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Dead Men’s Tales, by
Charles Junor; Hortense, by Lance-
lot Lance; and Visit to Tapos, by
William Little.—s 634.
To buy Übique the Scientific Bush-
ranger, by Clarence W. Martin. —•
5635.
To buy The Angel of the Earth-
quake, by Frank Morton, and The
Haunted Station, by Hume Nisbet.---
5636.
To buy The American Credo, by
George Jean Nathan and H. L.
Mencken, also books describing dif-
ference of c010r5.—5637.
To buy copy of Commonwealth
Parliamentary Handbook. —s63B.
Doctor (returning from post-
graduate work in England) and wife
require furnished flat or house, Syd-
ney suburbs, for six months from
mid-December. —5639.
Words of poem “The Wandering
Butcher Transport,” by “Jim One,”
published during World War I. —
5640.
Information Sought
What was the occasion of Ccesar’s
famous message, “I came, I saw, I
conquered” ?
Caesar was in Egypt when news was
brought that Pharnaces, king of
Pontus, and son of Mithradates the
Great, was inciting revolt against the
Romans among the peoples of Asia
Minor. Caesar’s forces defeated
Pharnaces at Zela (47 b.c.) and in five
days finished-off the war. He then
sent the laconic “Veni, vidi, vici” to
the Senate announcing his victory.
♦ * ♦ *
I have recently settled in Canada,
among pine woodlands, near impor-
tant salmon fishing-grounds. Can you
suggest some suitable aboriginal
names for my new home?
Bimberta, many fish; Binba, Bin-
darregah, Bimba, Illuka, Maroo, Pim-
pala, pine-tree; Bombala, meeting of
waters; Bunburra, beach; Bundilla,
place where waters meet; Coolallah,
Gulalya, Murti, Tarawari, Australian
salmon; Elanora, camp by the sea;
Ellimatta, our camp; Ellimeek, my
hut or camp; Etera, shore; Ilinga,
far away; Illalangi, camp on a hill;
Iluka, near the sea; Kayannie, water;
Kirala, Wybara, camp or fire;
Koolya, Kuyonga, Pelingi, Wikari,
fish; Kooroora, native camp; Kur-
rawa, Yerlungo, sea; Langi, hut or
camp; Longa-kalonga, far away from
each other; Mattala, Wyarrie, salt-
water ; Moonya, Noora, camp; Moo-
roopna, Mundoora, deep water;
Mulawa, tree shadows; Nurntianda,
far away; Oodlawirra, hill and tree
country; Pinnaroo, Tanderra, resting-
place; Ulooloo, permanent water,
winding creek; Warringa, Wontanna,
Wulnar, sea; Willawa, stop here;
Wirreanda, place of big trees.
* * * *
Some information on the sailing-
ship Crown of Italy, lost off the
South American coast in 1891 ?
The following information comes
from N. V. Wade, hon. treasurer of
the Shiplovers’ Society of N.S.W.,
whose father was second-mate on the
Grown of Italy: The ship, registered
at Liverpool, of 1551 gross tonnage,
Captain Thomas J. Greenbank, left
Liverpool on Oct. 10, 1891, for a
Chilean port with a cargo of cement
and rails. On Dec. 23, 1891, in foul
weather, she struck an uncharted
reef in the Le Maire straits between
Tierra del Fuego and Staten Island
(tip of South America). The ship
was a total loss; two boatloads got
away (there being no loss of life) and
two days later, on Christmas Day,
the crew landed near Port Stanley
(Staten Island). They were there 84
days before being rescued by H.M.S.
Cleopatra (sister-ship to the Calli-
ope), which was making charts for
the Admiralty and was in the area
more or less fortuitously. While on
the island the men suffered great
hardship and had to live mainly on
shellfish and sea-lions; the only
settlement there was an Argentine
penal establishment, from which no
rations were obtainable, and a D.B.S.
hut (for distressed British seamen),
which, however, was at the time
practically foodless.
* * ♦ •
How to make the ordinary concrete
or compo white instead of the usual
grey without weakening its strength ?
If you refer to the making of white-
mortar for brickwork, this is usually
obtained by the addition of lime and
the use of a clean white sand. A
suitable mix for such a mortar would
be one part lime, three parts sand;
this is a lime-mortar and will not
have the same strength as a cement-
mortar, though it is quite suitable for
many types of construction. If a
stronger mortar is required it may be
made up of the following propor-
tions : one part cement, one part
lime, 6 parts sand. The introduction
of the grey cement in this mix does
reduce the whiteness of the mortar,
but if a white cement is used then
the whiteness will be maintained.
White cement is obtainable from the
Cement Marketing Co., 4 O’Connell-
street, Sydney, N.S.W.
* * * *
Information on the Kenniff
murders ?
The Kenniffs (father, four sons and
a daughter) were nomads, excellent
bushmen, superb riders, used to
carrying weapons; they were of the
type of the Kellys and Clarkes. On
Mar. 21, 1902, a warrant was issued
for the arrest of Patrick and James
Kennifi for horse-stealing. Taking
the warrant was Constable George
Doyle, accompanied on his mission
by a blacktracker, Johnson, and the
manager of Carnarvon station, Albert
Christian Dahlke, who had a personal
feud with James Kenniff and who
appears to have intruded himself
merely to witness the latter’s humilia-
tion. On Mar. 28 (Good Friday) the
party encountered Patrick and James
Kenniff and a younger brother, Tom,
in Lethbridge’s Pocket, in the Car-
narvon Ranges (Q.). Doyle arrested
James, while Patrick and Tom rode
off; Johnson was sent back for hand-
cuffs to the packhorse, a little in the
rear. While on his way there he
heard a succession of shots, and
without investigating ran away into
the bush. When he returned with
help later it was apparent the bodies
of Doyle and Dahlke had been
burnt. Patrick and James Kenniff
evaded arrest for three months, being
arrested on June 23, 1902. by .a large
force of police and civilians. Tom
Kenniff was exculpated. Their trial
began on Nov. 3, with Sir Samuel
Griffith, C.J. (former Queensland
Premier and first Chief Justice of the
Australian High Court), presiding. A
verdict of wilful murder was re-
turned, and both prisoners were
sentenced to death. On appeal James
Kenniff’s sentence was changed to
life-imprisonment on the ground that,
being at the time under arrest, he
could not have been an active par-
ticipant in the murder; he was
released in 1914. Patrick Kenniff’s
sentence was upheld and he was
hanged.
Brief Answers
W.S.: The “Port Phillip Gazette”
is a quarterly pocket-size magazine
containing short stories, theatre-,
cinema-, art-, music- and book-
reviews and news-coverage. Subscrip-
tion can be made through Gaston C.
Renard, P.O. Box 529588, Mel-
bourne, Cl K.J.E,; A treasury
of Art Masterpieces, obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, 89 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney .... J.A.McG.:
Gavin Long is the general editor of
Australia in the War of 1939-45, now
in the course of production. He has
written two of the volumes, To
Benghazi (already published) and
Greece, Crete and Syria. During the
war he was war-correspondent with
the B.E.F. in France, and in the
Middle East reported the operations
described in To Benghazi L.F.:
Len Johnson, the Queensland pace-
bowler, played in only one Test, the
fifth Test v. India in 1947-48
K.D.: The information is contributed
by the people concerned, at the
request of the editors, who, of course,
sift the material supplied and use at
their own discretion W.J.: The
so-called “Opium War” ’"(the war
between Britain and China, 1839-42)
is a misnomer. It was not a war “to
force opium on China.” The ten-
sions which culminated in war were
caused by China’s refusal to treat
the British as equals, by countless
rebuffs and an attitude of contempt
which prevented negotiations from
ever being satisfactory. Opium was,
of course, a complicating factor, but
the American historian H. B. Morse,
in his monumental International
Relations of China, points out that
war 'between the two Powers was
bound to come irrespective of the
question of opium. In the Treaty
of Nanking (1842) which ended the
war, opium is not even mentioned.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J. 8.: Mixture of leopards, tram-
cars, atoms and Sinbad indigestible.
T.A.: Thin and rather vague.
....G.C.: If the honey-eater had
had a few more feathers he’d have
flown in V.A.F.: Sorry, but we
will not be going over the hills and
away with you R. 8.: You drew a
blank L.S.: They don’t make
even good nonsense A.F.8.: Not
up to standard, but keep on trying.
C.P.Y.: Nothing new about the
thought... .M.P.: Subject calls for
better treatment R.C.: Could be
expressed in half the space S.P.:
We endorse your sentiments without
applauding your poetry.... J.M.:
Forget it J.W.8.: We soon dis-
posed of that goose N.H.: Not
in the market for either H.S.R.:
You’re right. It’s flat... .J.R.:
“Sudden Storm” was a washout
J.L.: Among the also-rans... .JJ.:
We regret that we cannot accompany
you to Rum Jungle, “our fortune to
make”.., .P.O’S.: Buttonhole the
next New Australian you encounter
and recite it to him... .D.McK.:
“Welcome Home” received no Wel-
come at 252 George-street R.H.:
Why not send them to your univer-
sity magazine? 8.P.: Not want-
ing parodies on W. B. Yeats, thank
you They may be all
right for the Northern Hemisphere,
but they are not wanted in this
corner of the Southern M.A.N.:
Not even the eleventh-hour altera-
tions saved it from the basket
G.A.H.: “Wattle Blossom” poems
sell at a penny a bunch G.D.:
Let us hear from you when you have
learned to master the language
J.F.: You’ll be relieved to hear that
“the pines still stir by Jervis Bay.”
J.E.K.: Dead w00d... .D.D.T.:
Neither made the grade G.W.:
Your bushfire poem was doused....
8.E.F.: Sending it back over the
Harbor Bridge R.M.: Not buy-
ing any purple ogres this week,
thanks .... E.S.McM.: You’re a
rough-and-tumble rhymester . . . •
M.A.P.: Not Bulletin material
M.P.: It just jogs along in any old
fashion...,R.C.W.: We will try to
struggle along without that batch of
masterpieces... .E.A.K.: Ah! So at
last you have discovered that pro-
found truth .... W.R.W.: Not
tempted by the girl in the Bikini....
1.W.: Write in 20th-century English.
M.C.: Well, at least you had a
happy holiday C.R.: Stay at
home, if you must, but let us have
no more samples like the one in
hand 1.F.: Sorry, but you do not
seem to be making any progress
8.J.G.: Fed it some corn and sent
it home N.A.F.: Try it on a
women’s paper A.F.: Our head
reeled for hours after , reading your
opus on wheels D.M.: You can’t
apologise to Rudyard Kipling in our
pages W. 8.5.: Sad to relate, your
poem “The Australian Locomotive
and Railway Historical Society’s
Special Excursion” never left the
platform F.H.F.: Rewritten it
may be, but not improved KJ.:
That bullfrog can croak a requiem
elsewhere E.R.A.: It cheers us to
hear that the Murray is still rolling
merrily to the sea J.D.A.: You’re
perfectly safe from the wrath of your
headmaster.


ENJoy DOUBLE benefits with
AGA
Regd. Trade Mark
Better Cooking PLUS Better Hot Water Service
That’s the thing about
AGA, it’s the only Cooker
that serves a double pur-
pose so cheaply. A single
eoke fire burns continu-
ously, keeping ovens
and hot plates ready
for instant use day
and night, as well as
heating ample supplies
of hot water for kitchen
and bathroom needs.
&
ip*
The correct grade of
coke now in ample supply.
AGA COOKER
(MODEL CB)
10 YEARS' GUARANTEE
against faulty materials
or workmanship. Built
to last a lifetime!
AGA FOR ECONOMY!
Your fuel bill won’t exceed the guaranteed
maximum no matter how much you use AGA.
Low consumption of coke is guaranteed.
AGA FOR CONVENIENCE!
You don’t have to watch meals. Tempera-
tures are automatically adjusted. Two ovens
and two hot plates cook at different speeds.
Leave food cooking, even overnight.
AGA FOR COMFORT!
Your kitchen stays cool and comfortable
when you cook with AGA. Heavy insulation
keeps the heat inside. Fuelling is so clean
and easy, too, and is needed only three times
in every twenty-four hours.
OTHER AGA COOKERS
MODEL "E" (Four ovens, two
hot plates, one warming plate).
MODEL "ET" (Four ovens, two
hot plates, one warming plate,
plus hot water tank).
MODEL "CS" (Two ovens, two
hot plates).
MODEL "DS" (Two ovens, two
hot plates, plus hot water tank).
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(ftlabllthed In N.Z. In 1941 J
Sola Australian Agents for
AGA COOKER AND
BENOIX HOME WASHER
NEW SOUTH WALES _45 King Street. Sydney
VICTORIA ______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _ _ _ _ A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS MALLOCH BROS. Ltd., Perth
SB
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
In Other Land's
“Agric”: Instead of seeing
red every time margarine is men-
tioned, the dairy industry should
pay more attention to itself and
to exploitation of its markets.
That’s the view of the Director
of Dairy Research in Queensland
(L. E. Nichols), who is back
from a tour which took him to
Europe, the U.K. and America.
He found that overseas dairy-
ing was working away from a
strict butter economy, more
attention being given to diversi-
fication of dairy-products, par-
ticularly milk and fancy cheese,
with emphasis on modern pack-
aging in cartons and special
cheese coatings.
English and American re-
search, he found, was aimed at
effecting economies in farm-
production and -manufacture.
Pipeline-milking, bulk-milk col-
lection on farms, cleansing
machines without dismantling,
chemical sterilisation, elevated
milking-bails and labor-saving
devices were aimed at cutting
costs while improving milk-
quality. Herd-recording, arti-
ficial insemination and progeny-
testing had helped to increase
milk-production, which, in most
countries he visited, varied from
650ga1. to lOOOgal. yearly per
cow.
Butterfat-production as high
as 4001 b. per cow was common
overseas, where fodder-conser-
vation, in the form of hay and
silage, was practised. Grass-
drying at a high level of pro-
tein received special attention in
England. In America non-fat
solids of milk, skim-milk pow-
der and buttermilk powder
were widely used in bread-
making and home-cooking. The
continuous butter - making
machines used in America
offered possibilities for trial
under Australian conditions,
Nichols added.
Champion Wheat
“C.S.”: A crop of Charter,
fifth crop in succession grown
on the same area at Carra-
mundra, Boggabri, won the
R.A.S. northern N.S.W. wheat
championship. Estimated to go
50 bushels an acre, it is owned
by G. and A. N. Gordon. Eight
districts competed. Next-best
was Buckie Pastoral Co.’s Gabo,
grown at Croppa Creek, Bogga-
bri, and judged to strip 52
bushels an acre. Gabo also
filled third place for B. Tudgey,
of Glendon, Currabubula, with
the same yield. Seed-purity and
freedom from weeds gave the
Charter crop the money.
F. C. Morris, the judge, said
the estimated yield of the crops
emphasised the high fertility of
the soil in the N.S.W. north-
west, but added that soil-
fertility was not indestructible,
and the sowing of some of the
older paddocks to a lea-pasture
or letting them revert to a
natural pasture, provided an
early and speedy cover with
clovers could be obtained, would
save them for the future.
Other observations by Morris:
Festival wheat, because of its
strong straw, rust-resistance and
grain-quality, was quickly over-
hauling Gabo in popularity in
the north-west. Several of the
previously rust-resistant wheats
such as Charter and Kendee
seemed to be losing their popu-
larity compared with Festival
and Gabo. Incidence of disease
and stem-rust was low. All
crops were in good condition
considering the high yield-
potential. Little damage was
caused by frosts.
The high yield of Charter was
because of its good density. The
heads were filled three wide,
with up to 60 grains to the ear.
The crop was grown in a heavy
brown and red loam, seeding
521 b. to the acre, sown on May
20.
2,4-D On Wheat
“T. Ford”: Spraying wheat-
crops with 2,4-D to give skele-
ton-weed a setback, with little
or no injury to the wheat, is
increasing on badly-infested land
in Riverina.
Effect of the hormone-spray
on the wheat crop depends
on the time of application.
At the full-tillering stage
no harm is done to the crop, but
if left to that stage the wheat
may have suffered so badly
already from the s.w. infesta-
tion that it never recovers
properly, and its yield will be
reduced from this cause. Still,
even some loss of yield is
preferable to breakage of har-
vesting machinery or inability to
harvest the crop at all through
a dense growth of the weed.
Skeleton-weed may be better
checked at an earlier stage of
growth of the wheat-crop, but
the latter is then more suscept-
ible to spray injury, and yield is
lost. So the farmer has to de-
cide where the greater loss in
wheat-yield will be suffered.
Hunger Signs
“Major Minor”: Deficiency
of plant-food does not show the
same symptoms in all crops, but
general signs are; Lack of
nitrogen, light-green or yellow-
ish leaves and early dying of
older leaves ; phosphates, purp-
lish color of young leaves, leaf
margins or stems ; potash, small,
white, yellow or reddish-brown
“Are you going after the grasshoppers?"
spots on the leaves, with curling
or scorching of the edges ; cal-
cium, some distortion of new
leaves, with yellow and brown
areas along leaf margins and
between veins; sulphur, leaf-
yellowing like nitrogen defici-
ency, but first appearing on
young leaves ; magnesium, yel-
lowing or reddening of tips and
edges of leaves, spreading be-
tween leaf-veins on older leaves ;
iron or manganese, lack of green
color between veins of new
leaves ; boron, twisting and dis-
tortion of upper leaves and
death of terminal bud (internal
blackening or corking of fruit-
and root crops); zinc, whitish
color of new leaves and yellow
or brown splotched or striped
areas between veins; copper,
wilting of new leaves and dying
of leaf tips, without much change
of color; molybdenum, yellow-
ish spots or areas between veins
and along edges of leaves (scald
in beans and whiptail in cauli-
flower).
On a Schedule
“P. O’Day”: A grazier with
3000 sheep to shear and two
good shearers to do it found
that the tally on his 1900-acre
Riverina property was not
a%cted during a danger period
of cold weather because he took
the following precautions:
He kept closely in touch with
weather warnings, and planned
his schedule of shearing to suit
the weather, not to suit the
shearers.
With the shed’s holding-
capacity of 400 grown sheep, the
grazier was careful, even
through good warm weather, to
“shed-up” only the number of
sheep the two shearers could do
each day. Thus at the end of
the day very few sheep, if any,
were left to starve till the next
day. A starved sheep, in cold
weather, has no resistance.
Sheep in the holding-pens
which were certain to be shorn
late in the day were given an
hour’s grazing early to fill up.
Then, when the cold threatened,
the late-run shornies were shed-
ded with woolled sheep, all
packed in the pens so they
would keep warm through the
night.
As soon as possible shorn
sheep were got off the open
country into the hills, where
there was shelter from the cold.
The Eyes of Stock
“Farmer Bill”: Infectious
eye-disease is liable to attack
sheep, cattle and horses. Neglect
may cause blindness and spread
of the disease.
It may take two forms: in-
flammation of the mucous mem-
brane of the eye or inflamma-
tion of the whole of the struc-
ture of the eyes. Isolated cases
of conjunctivitis are sometimes
mistaken for i.e.-d.
First symptoms are redness
and swelling of the mucous
membranes lining the eyelids,
tears and a tendency to keep
the eyes closed. As the disease
develops the discharge becomes
thick and yellow, masses inside
the lids and on the cheeks and
glues up the eyes, which may
turn opaque. If neglected the
skin close to the eyes is scalded
and the hair comes away leaving
raw patches. Where ulcers
occur perforation of the eye and
loss of sight may result; some-
times the ulcers heal, but the
sight is left impaired. Worst
cases are those in which the
animals become feverish, lose
appetite and condition.
Prior to treating make sure
no foreign matter is embedded
in the membrane covering the
eye or beneath the lid. Sufferers
should be isolated immediately,
if possible in a dark stable or
shed.
To cleanse the eyes and sur-
rounding parts use a solution of
two teaspoons of common-salt
in a pint of warm water. Smear
the eyelids with boracic or zinc-
ointment to prevent the collec-
tion of discharge, and smooth
vaseline or castor-oil over the
skin below the eyes to forestall
scalding and loss of hair.
To treat the eye-ball dissolve
|oz. of sulphate-of-zinc in U
pints of boiled rain-water. Using
an eye-dropper, drip several
drops of this into the eye three
times a day. Animals that be-
come feverish and show loss of
appetite should be given a
purgative and, in cold weather,
should be rugged. Feed should
be light and of the laxative type.
Caught early, most animals
make a complete recovery.
Blowing of soda, lime or
powdered glass into the eye is
dangerous, and usually causes
total blindness.
Mushrooms
“Billjim”; Mushrooms aren’t
easy to grow, but home-culture
will repay the trouble taken,
December to March is the best
time for spawning in temperate
districts. Take out slices of turf
about a foot square with about
Hin. of soil sticking to them.
Then remove about 3in. or 4in.
of the remaining soil and press
the prepared manure firmly into
the hole.
If spawning is followed by
continuous dry weather the
spawned areas should be watered
to keep the cut turf moist and
alive, but where manure has
been inserted water should be
applied with discretion. De-
pending on the weather, mush-
rooms should appear in from
six to 10 weeks.
Pick them daily, before the cap
is fully expanded, by twisting
each gently until the whole
Is Yours on the Wall?
TKe Bulletin W'ool Type Card
is not a course in wool- or
sheep-classing. If it were it
would cost a lot more than it
does. Its purpose is to give
sheepowners, students, soldier-
settlers and others who handle
wool and sheep a practical
guide on the identification and
selection of fleeces, all the
way from very fine Merino
(74’s) down to Lincoln-type
(40’s). And with this selec-
tion of samples is a quick in-
dicator for breeding this or
that type *of fleece by cross-
ing. A continuous stream of
orders proves its value at
7s. 6d. Send now to have the
card for spring and summer
drafting.


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
3
I
mi
■K
a
,’A 1 /
HYCEIA DISSOLVENATOK
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
natter where your home may he.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
df
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal itl
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 i /ears.
Write for free Illustrated pamphlet.
1 DISTRIBUTORS: ~
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q'land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne. _ .
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S«A.), 229 a Bundle
St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA; Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne, or ffm. -Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: O. T. See Kee, Radolectm
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Baffles Place.
LTSAGHT SHEEP
SEIF FEEDER
9
XT'
%
m
■ •
iill
tR
v " \ S
, .A.
site
sm
it
m
irl
K%oc t 'l4rt
j-’*
<*W
Sliding Hinged Roof for ease in
filling.
50 BUSHELS CAPACITY.
Rigid construction with Heavy
Gauge Sheets.
Opening adjustable for various
grades of feed.
Swinging Trough prevents blockage.
Sloping Sides prevent build-up of
feed in Troughs,
Sturdy Skid Base and Lugs for
Towing.
O Overall Trough length, 16ft. (Bft. each side).
PRICE: (Assembled or Prefabricated) £42 (At Works)
Write for further information and agents' names to
LYSAGHTS WORKS PTY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
or JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD., nr ail capital anus
□
E
m
mushroom with its stem is
cleanly withdrawn.
Going North
“Oxo”: When Dr. R. B.
Kelley, well-known geneticist,
retires from the C.5.1.R.0. at
the end of the year he will join
Tropical Cattle Pty., Ltd., at
Ingham (N.Q.) and make his
home in the north.
Six heifers and six bulls of
J. D. Hudgeon’s Manso blood
beef-type Brahmans are leaving
America early in December for
the company’s properties, and
the Ingham stud will be regis-
tered with the American Brah-
man Breeders’ Association.
Attempts will be made to
evolve a fixed poll cross by mat-
ing the imported bulls with
selected Aberdeen-Angus, Poll
Shorthorn and Red Poll females.
The Hudgeon herd of 1000 regis-
tered females is one of the
largest Zebu studs in the U.S.A,
Leo and George Tutt, manu-
facturers of heavy earth-moving
equipment, are directors of
Tropical Cattle Pty., Ltd., and,
using the latest equipment, the
company has reclaimed 1000
acres from tidal intrusion and
sown it to green panic-grass. A
machine which Geo. Bryant saw
working in Florida (U.S.A.) is
coming to Australia and
promises to provide the answer
to Queensland’s timber-regrowth
problem. It travels at four
m.p.h. flattening suckers as
thick as a man’s arm and
chopping them into foot
lengths; the machine handles
strips 7ft. wide and works the
soil to a depth of lOin.
The C.5.1.R.0. has obtained
Dr. Kelley’s services in connec-
tion with the Pakistani cattle
taken by air to Papua, also for
the crossbred dairy-cattle breed-
ing trials at Badgery’s Creek
(N.S.W.). Managing-director of
the Ingham company is John
Murray, who has pastoral
interests at Cpbar (N.S.W.).
Paspalum Warning
“E.H.M.”: The steady en-
croachment of useless Paspalum
compressum on N.S.W. North
Coast dairyland is evidence that
dilatatum paddocks are becom-
ing impoverished and need reno-
vating.
Thousands of acres of pasture-
land have not been broken-up
for 30 years, and it is in these
old paddocks where compressum
is overcoming the root-bound
dilatatum. When I began buying
dilatatum seed harvested in the
northern rivers districts 25 years
ago one never saw compressum
seed in it.
Today amounts of compres-
sum varying from 5 p.c. to 50
p.c. are found in almost every
consignment of seed bought.
Some farmers are tackling the
job of renovating by ploughing,
rotary-hoeing and applying dolo-
mite to worn-out paddocks in-
fested with compressum, but, on
the whole, there is not much
activity of this sort.
Fitting an Axe-handle
“Horseless H.”: When fitting
a new axe-handle, pare the
handle-head down so that it will
push into the eye of the axe,
then wedge it. Any forcing
bruises the grain of the wood
and weakens it. This applies
particularly to handles made of
Australian hardwoods.
If you cannot get an obstinate
broken-handle out of the axe-
head place the blade of the axe
well in the ground and then burn
it out. You want a wind and a
couple of long, lighted sticks.
Always glass-off and make
smooth any rough grain on a
new handle and go over it with
fine sandpaper. Saw the top of
the handle off, and with a fin.
bit bore an inch-deep hole and
fill with oil. When this has per-
colated into the wood repeat the
operation and plug the hole.
A splitting-axe requires more
shoulder than a felling-axe. If
you feel like binding a splitting-
axe use old copper wire. Never
leave an axe in the sun unless
you want the handle to weather
and become like sandpaper.
Real Stabilisation
“8.5.”; As part of a bid for
year-round production with no
periods of low output during
winter or flood conditions, J.
and A. Lowry, of Beresford
(N.S.W.), machine-harvested 18
acres of saccaline-sorghum to
fill two 112-ton concrete-tub
silos.
It took them five working-days
out of a fortnight, and was
done with a tractor-driver and
two truck-drivers.
Two men were normally em-
ployed on the farm, and the
third was supplied by the
owner of the forage-harvester
on a reciprocal arrangement,
after filling his new silos. Equip-
ment was a forage-harvester,
two trucks, two tractors and one
blower.
Times taken were: Three-ton
tip-truck with 14ft. 6in. by
7ft. 6in, tray and 4ft. sides took
20min. to fill and llmin. to blow
into the silo. The other truck,
with a similar tray but 2ft. sides
from which the material had to
forked, took 15min. to unload.
The harvester worked at four
m.pdi.
The property consists of 270
acres, including 20 acres of
poor ridge country a mile
from the main property which is
the only flood-free area. All of
the remaining 187 acres is
flood-liable, flooding from Ift.
to 4ft. deep each time the river
reaches flood-height, and staying
flooded from four to seven days,
With 200 tons of silage and 80
tons of lucerne-hay, purchased
durine the summer on a low
g umn r on a low
market the Lowrys are aiming
to be almost immune to floods,
Thev vard 45 head of milkers
iney yard 4D head ot milkers,
but claim that with silage they
can increase the number of cows
and maintain the increased num-
ber throughout the year with
only a temporary drop in the
event of flood.
Hints for the Farm
“Lyco”: Research by the
U.S.A, Dept, of Agriculture
shows that the ripening of
tomatoes is now hastened by
the use of ethylene-gas in ripen-
ing-rooms, and that such treat-
ment is a waste of money and
effort. The tomatoes them-
selves give off volatile gases,
some of which is ethylene.
These ripen the tomatoes, if
they are allowed to, in a room
which is kept closed, and the
introduction of manufactured
ethylene-gas does not help any
further.
“Billjim”: For a winter-
fodder crop in Victoria mix
swedes with chou-moellier. If
the swedes should fail the chou-
moellier will fill the bill. Drill
seed in now at 12oz. per acre
with lewt. of serpentine super.
If seed is broadcast about lib.
is required per acre, with a
heavier dose of fertiliser.
“C.A.A.”: Egg-plants add
variety to the vegetable selec-
tion and are easy to grow. Be-
cause of the high temperature
required, the plants cannot be
planted-out with safety in
southern districts until end of
November. Sow now in open
ground, three or four seeds being
ample for most home needs. Soil
conditions similar to those for
tomatoes will do. Plant seed-
lings 3ft. apart. If picked when
the fruits have a glossy appear-
ance egg-plant will remain edible
for a month.
“Myrr”: Build the compost-
heap in layers 6in. deep, cover-
ing each layer with an inch of
animal manure, about |in. of
soil and a Sprinkling of lime.
If no animal manure is avail-
able use a dressing of |in. of
blood-and-bone and an inch of
urinated earth. Another activa-
tor, slower and not quite as effec-
tive, is a mixture of super, and
sulphate-of-ammonia (2 to 1), a
handful to each layer. Make
vents in the heap 4in. in
diameter every foot or so, for
the escape of gases, by driving
a stake to the bottom and rotat-
ing it. After four or five weeks
reverse the layers, placing the
top at the bottom and the sides
to the centre.
“My”: A citrus-tree with col-
lar-rot may be saved in the early
stages, but if the infection en-
circles the trunk there is no cure.
Cut away all decayed bark and
examine the main roots to make
%ure they are free of the disease.
Cover the wound with a coating
of Bordeaux, l|lb. of bluestone
in £gal. of water and 21b. of
slaked lime in enough wafer to
make a workable paste.
“M.”: To make a snail-bait
mix 11b. of calcium-arsenate or
soz. of metaldehyde and 161 b. of
bran with enough water to make
a crumbly mixture. Spread in
the evenings.
“C.H.”: When the litter is a
large one supplement the pups’
ration with cow’s-milk after the
third week by teaching them to
drink from a shallow dish. Makp
the milk lukewarm and push
the pup’s muzzle into it till he
learns to lap it up. If he wan-
ders bring him back till be
finishes his share. For a litter
of six or eight pups one pint of
milk a day is sufficient for the
first three days; after that
increase to a quart.
“Haven”: A pup can gradu-
ally be weaned when about six
weeks old. Put him on to cow’s-
milk and the solid type of food
he’s to get later. Hard biscuit-
fare is useless until the teeth
are well developed. A young
pup being given both milk and
solid food should be fed the
solid food in the morning and
the milk at noon. A rapidly-
growing dog needs the same
amount of food as a mature dog
that weighs three times as much.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
It now seems possible that a change of phase in the
cyclical control has occurred, and that the longer Croham-
hurst cycle, repeating the season 'of 1882-83, may be the
main control. Still, the change may be merely an effect
of the present weak state of the sunspot cycle. If there
has been a change the heavy rains of November will not
occur, though the general aspects would be the same, with
good December and January rains.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Snowy—and Cost-plus
From the final report on “Proposals
to Divert the Snowy River” one learns
(page 31 of the report) that to the esti-
mated capital costs of £6l million and
£64 million respectively for the Tumut and
Murray schemes “a very approximate
figure of £lOO million was taken out for
the cost of transmission, assuming the
whole of the power generated was going
to Sydney and Melbourne.” This gave an
overall figure of £225 million, a happy-go-
lucky total which had the advantage of
being easily remembered but which was a
sure pointer to anyone familiar with
departmental estimates that Australia
would be lucky if the job was completed
for £5OO million.
In the past few months admissions have
been made that the final cost may reach
even £7OO million. Now H. B. Guilett,
M.H.R. (Lib., Vic.), says that “everyone
knew the Snowy hydroelectric project
would never be completed,”
Gullett’s statement was, I’m sure, badly
reported. What he meant was that, under
day-labor and Government-job methods,
no really big job can be completed in an
ordinary lifetime.
Personal experience of day-labor
control of public works over the past
40 years has convinced me that so long
as controlling officers in the field are
subject to administrative assistants
directed by executives under Ministerial
control there is no remedy. When the
change-over from contracts to the day-
labor system was made in Australia,
efficiency was suspended, and during the
last war sentence of death was passed
when the 10 p.c. cost-plus system was
introduced into Government contracts.
Thereafter factories producing munitions
were no longer expected to practise
economy or impose discipline. All that
was necessary was to produce certified
cost-statements of wages and material,
for which the firm received a refund, plus
10 p.c. Loafing thus became profitable
for employee and employer, on the prin-
ciple that the greater the cost the greater
the bonus.
Those who might have done a fair day’s
work were restrained both by their mates
and by the management. For habits of
hard work there was substituted the
doctrine of take-it-easy. Australian pro-
duction found itself on the skids leading
to the post-war slowdown.
If the Snowy project is never com-
pleted, if the building of Sydney’s Warra-
gamba dam goes on for ever, if there are
never enough houses and, presently, not
enough food, it will be because Govern-
ments have abolished the private con-
tractor or, where they do use him, do it
on such terms as to encourage sloth and
inefficiency.—L. W. Gill (N.S.W.).
Country Mail Services
Claiming that it must save money, the
G.P.O. is cutting down mail-deliveries to
isolated outback people. Those who live
in city and suburbs, with their two and
three deliveries a day, can’t possibly
appreciate what mail-day means to an
outback home.
I was reared on the edge of the Pilliga
Scrub, seven miles from the nearest
neighbor. A mail-service, operating
under N.S.W. administration, ran from
Boggabri to Bohena Creek, and the last
two settlers were 16 miles beyond the
rest. For many years the N.S.W. service
delivered the mail to those two lonely
homes. On taking over the postal ser-
vices, the Commonwealth began immedi-
ately to retrench, and eliminated the two
isolated homes from the mailman’s
round. More generous Administrations
reversed that policy, but it looks now as
if outback deliveries are in jeopardy
again.
The only justification for Government-
run services is that the profit principle
will not be pressed too far, but that the
cream and skimmed-milk will be reason-
ably balanced against each' other. If the
Government postal service has to insist
on the rule of “no pay, no service” it had
better hand over to private enterprise,
which at least gives more businesslike
performance where it does operate. —
G.A.B. (N.S.W.).
Tanks Wanted
“W.J.W.” asks (B. 28/10/’53) whether
there will be enough water for the people
of Perth (W.A.) if the city expands at
the rate predicted by town-planning
authorities. Well, Perth’s rainfall is about
34in. a year, and the answer is tanks.
Tanks don’t give the answer for sewer-
age, gardens, etc., but if every house had
a couple of lOOOgal. tanks to catch rain-
water for drinking and cooking, the,
strain on city reservoirs would be greatly
relieved. — Taswegian (Tas.).
Disarmament
“A proposition which, at the first glance,
must strike the world as being of a noble
character has recently been formulated
to the Great Powers by order of Russia.
It is that a conference should be held to
consider the question of international dis-
armament. It is a proposal worthy of the
descendant of Peter the Great. On all
sides huge armies are being maintained
who neither toil nor spin, and contribute
nothing to the welfare of the world.
The armed peace, in the words of Russia,
is being turned into a crushing burden.
“But, while the nobility of the pro-
posal will be readily conceded, the pro-
ject is too Utopian to admit of its being
carried out. It is possible that the
enormous armies of Europe might be
reduced by international agreement, but
“Now —which one Was it?”
\
the universal conversion of swords into
reaping-hooks is an idyllic impossibility,
It is also to be feared that the outer
world will not be disposed to accept the
proposal as one wholly without sinister
underlying motives. It is not to be
forgotten that the advisers of Russia have
been accused of deceit and trickery in
diplomacy, and of having broken faith
with the British Government.”
Who said that? A writer in the Mel-
bourne “Weekly Times” on November 3,
1898, only alteration being to change the
word “Tsar,” where it appeared, to
“Russia.” Does history repeat itself? —
Ceg (Vic)
v ''
Eggs
If egg boards were abolished would it
mean cheaper eggs? I doubt it. Eggs
would still have to be produced mainly
“Cad, Simpson — pygmies!”
from wheat and its by-products, but the
price of the wheat would be governed by
world demand—there would be no arti-
ficially-lowered local price.
With “free” commodities, such as most
fruit and vegetables, a comparison of
wholesale and retail prices frequently
shows that someone is making a profit
of from one to 400 per cent., besides
which the N.S.W. Egg Board’s adminis-
trative charges pale into insignificance.—
Tukang Kebun (N.S.W-)-
c . v- \x/_ . |
oneep Yarns Want d
Extract from a letter I received from
Professor Paul Link, of Argentina:
I gather material for a foik-loric work
with tales relating to sheep in different
countries, i should be greatly indebted
to you if you could kindly send me two
or three of your best yarns bn sheep and,
if possible, also a few photographs of run-
sheep with sheepmen who tend them.
I am sure Professor Link would be
grateful for any assistance we could give
him; anything worth while could be for-
warded to me at the N.S.W. University
of Technology, and I will make sure that
it goes to him.—P. R. McMahon (N.S.W.).
r\ i j » i_ •«. i
Queensland Architecture
Some of the galvanised-iron “homes”
in central and north Queensland are
appalling. They have the rigid lines of
colonial ovens and are about as comfort-
able. These dwellings, together with
more recent and pretentious ones of fibro ;
or timber from Brisbane to Cairns, almost
all lack roof-ventilation, consequently in
summer the space between ceiling and
roof (usually of galvanised-iron) becomes
a hot-box, radiating heat to the living
quarters below. In very few have archi-
tects attempted to carry this hot air upon
its natural course, upward; in fact, venti-
lation by means of fretted ceiling centre-
pieces has fallen into disuse.
Some halls, factories and hotels have
installed pedestal- or rotary-type venti-
lators with good results, but these are
rarely seen on private houses. Buildings
of gable-roof construction may easily be
ventilated by louvred openings at each
wall peak, below the ridge. The hip-
roof,* a Georgian survival, is, however,
the more usual type ; it forms a perfect
hot-box. A simple modification will
provide ventilation. Instead of all four
sections being laid at the same angle,
the two minor sections are pitched lower,
A short, gabled portion in the roof mid-
section can then be provided with
louvred opening at each end.
Where financial or other considerations
prevent alterations to existing roofs, a
squat-type pedestal-ventilator may be
fitted, preferably with suitably disposed
perforated ceiling-panels,
Local authorities should insist upon
the provision of roof-ventilation in all
proposed Queensland buildings. That
would make them at least 50 per cent,
more liveable.— John Gresty (Q.).
_____
Local-Government Elections
_
The N S. Wales Government s pro-
posal to alter the system of local-gov-
ernment elections may have some merit—
proportional-representation could result
in the election to municipal and shire
councils of fewer party representatives
and more independent candidates,
Under the present system, particularly
where, say, three aldermen have to be
elected to a council for each ward, it is
the usual practice for the parties to put
up blocks of candidates. Any indepen-
dent candidates have no chance unless
they are able to line up with a popular
pair, in which case they might be elected
by the supporters of their team-mates.
The new proposal reduces the number
of aldermen for the City of Sydney from
30 to 20 —sufficient, in all conscience, for
the government of th© city provided
the quality of the man is of a sufficiently
high standard. A noticeable feature of
the lowered standard of representation in
Sydney has been the fall in the standard
of service rendered by the civic autho-
rities. A dirty, unkempt city costing its
ratepayers dear is the result. A change
would be more than good..
What ratepayers need to watch at this
stage is the introduction of salaries for
aldermen, as has been mooted in Govern-
ment circles. While monkeying with the
Local Government Act, the Government
might easily slip in a clause at the last
minute to give effect to that. The last
time they had a go at it they sat up
nearly aU night to remove the limit to
the rates that councils may impose—that
as a prelude to the idea of paid aldermen,
since the then limits would have pre-
cluded such payments in the face of
demands on civic funds for the ordinary
civic purposes.— Cave (NJS.W.).
Our Hotels
Australians are satisfied with second-
er third-rate hotels. Only two of 20 pubs
in our town (pop. 20,000) are first-class.
A glance through the registers of those
two shows that the house-guests are
usually high-salaried people on expense-
accounts —circuit judges, civil servants,
commercial travellers, etc. There might
be a visiting sporting team, or the reliev-
ing manager of a chain-store or a bank.
These same people, when they go for
a holiday and have to pay their own
expenses, will rent a flat, or hitch a
caravan to the car because hotel charges
are too high. Even when they decide to
stay at a hotel they usually pick a second-
class one, because £2 a week saved by
each of four or five people is worth
saving.
All that the local tourist trade demands
is cleanliness, comfortable beds and good
meals. Many hotels cannot offer even
these, but if hotel managements concen-
trated on those three points, and forgot
about the fancy trimmings which force
up tariffs, Australians would not complain
about hotel accommodation. — Mullum
(N.S.W.).


French Constitutions
That scoff at the French revolutionaries
producing a Constitution “of a sort” (B.
11/11/’53) is not completely justified.
During the revolutionary period two or
three Constitutions were formulated, each
containing provisions and safeguards as
to liberty, property and equality in self-
government, are embodied in modern
British and American governmental
systems. The words may be different,
but the sentiments are practically the
same.
The National Assembly’s Constitution,
produced after the Oath of the Tennis-
court (1789), was prefixed, in the manner
of the American De-
claration of Indepen-
dence, with a declara-
tion of the Rights of
Men and Citizens.
It invoked the bless-
ing of the Supreme
Being, then affirmed the
principle of equality of
rights. This “equality,”
incidentally, must not
be taken as an assertion
that men are equal in
ability; it was a con-
demnation of the
clerical and aristocratic
privileges of the old
regime (it should be
realised that the French
Revolution was a revolt
by the mid die-class as
well as by the lower
orders).
The rights of man,
next dealt with, are
named as “liberty, pro-
perty, security and re-
sistance to oppression.
There is no authority
but that derived from
the nation. AH citizens
have a right to share
in the making of laws
and in their protection
when made.” The
declaration proclaimed
freedom of opinion, of
speech, of writing and
of publication, pro-
vided the exercise of
such freedom did not
disturb public order. Property was to
be inviolable “except in cases of evident
public necessity legally ascertained, and
then on condition of a previous just
indemnity.”
Though one or two clauses might be
open to abuse, there is nothing much in
that list that could be objected to by
present-day democrats.
There was one provision which seems
queer to us, though it is operative in
the U.S.A - -deputies to the Assembly
(i.e., M.P.s) were prevented from holding
what we call Ministerial office. Thus,
outside nominees (civil servants and
others) had necessarily to be appointed
to the top posts. At times this worked
out unsatisfactorily.
In 1791 and 1793 there were tinkerings
with the Constitution ; the National Con-
vention (1793) added some Leftist
features. (This was the period of the
Terror, when blood-drunk ruffians ruled.)
However, in July, 1795, another Con-
stitution, correcting some of these
trends, was adopted—it was based on a
property franchise, and there was a two-
Chamber legislature.
Another Constitution appointed
Napoleon as First Consul, with dicta-
torial powers. Napoleon also altered the
Constitution, and there have been subse-
quent changes.— Kros (S.A.),
The Beef Railway
We arc trying to grow beef on the
cheap in the north and nor’-west, and it
can’t be done. Air-beef is too dear and
road-trains, as at present constituted, are
too rough. Only a railway can carry in
the thousands of tons of fencing-material,
bore-casing, engines, etc., necessary to
improve the country and carry the cattle
out.
A Queensland-gauge railway of heavy
track from Mt. Isa along the 20in.-
rainfall line to Wyndham (W.A.) would
give Australia its only transcontinental
line that would go through fair-to-good
grazing-land all the way and with hardly
“Now We can elope with a clear conscience .”
any engineering problem to overcome.
The whole length of formation could be
constructed with earth-moving machinery
and everything could be produced for
the project within the Commonwealth.
Large areas could be resumed and
closer-settled for sheep, giving some five
million sheep which would provide out-
of-season loading. An extension of the
Birdum line to link up and a meatworks
at the junction would solve the problems
of the beef industry.— Julia Creek (Q.).
Youth and Holidays
’Teenagers from 15 to 20 years get
from three to four weeks’ annual leave
from work and anything up to £45
holiday-pay. But on present-day prices
of travel and accommodation they
couldn’t go far before the money . was
spent. Any ideas they may have of
seeing and learning about their own
country during holidays are thus severely
limited. Of course, one cap always tramp
or hitch-hike, but hitch-hiking isn’t so
easy since juries have taken to awarding
small fortunes to people hurt in motor
accidents—drivers won’t risk picking up
a traveller. x
A Sydney youngster who wanted to go
to Perth for, say, a fortnight, would be
up for £39 12s. second-class return by
rail. That would probably allow him or
her to spend a night in a Perth park and
then return to Sydney with about enough
for the tramfare home.
Ah’-travel, except for very short
journeys, is out of the question for any-
one on small, pay.
Travel at these prices is no inducement
for a youth to see his country. One
result is that about 70 p.cf of Sydney’s
youths have not been more than 100 miles
from the city.
The Commonwealth, rightly enough,
insists on youths being trained to defend
Australia. If some way could be found
to let us range over and learn what sort
of a place we are expected to defend
there'd probably be a deeper appreciation
of the necessity for military training.
Educationists who frequently complain
that Australians don’t know their
country could pay some attention to this.
— F. Cutler (N.S.W.).
Food-shortage
There is plenty of evidence that Aus-
tralia’s food-production is not what it
could be —even though it was up in
1952-53 compared with the previous year.
However, it is lagging behind the require-
ments of local consumption (taking into
consideration a growing population) and
of the export volume needed to maintain
the economy.
It is still argued whether or not Malthus
was right in holding that man’s power to
propagate was greater than his power to
increase the means of subsistence. Ex-
perts like Lord Boyd Orr, the Huxleys and
Stamp think that, unless something is done
soon, the white race may be reduced to
an Asiatic scale of diet at its lowest.
Allowing for the effect of wool-values
on grain-production, it is clear—from
statements of spokesmen for farm
pressure-groups, from the failure to settle
more people on the land, from the pro-
duction failures caused by commodity-
control boards, from the chaos in trans-
port, and from political pandering to
the rural vote —that little or nothing can
be expected in the way of increased
food-production from the present system.
—Keima (Q.).
Poetry in Schools
It would be a stultified age that did
not produce new patterns, new concep-
tions in the making of poetry, writing of
books, painting of pictures and com-
position of music. Admittedly much
modern poetry lacks the steady trochaic
or iambic metre, the banality of rhyming
to which we had been accustomed. But
poetry produced without these beating
tom-toms is surely a truer, purer form,
a much more skilful and subtle tapestry
of words than the Tennyson’s “Brook”
type.
As for “neurotic emanations” (B.
4/11/ ’s3)—Keats, Shelley, Coleridge,
Gray, Hogg, Burns, Blake, Pope—were
any of these notable for strength of char-
acter or uprightness of living?
Let our children know the classics, but
let them also know the poetry of the
age in which they are growing up.—
Narumee (Vic.).
“5.8.” (B. 4/11/’53) has a good point
in urging that the masterpieces of the past
can, and should chiefly, be used in the
education of the young, but regarding
school-poetry I don’t think minor changes
are always enough, since in the schools
the poetry taught is not always classical.
There is a tendency for the worst and
not the best of such poets as Longfellow
and Wordsworth to get into the school-
books ; e.g., Longfellow’s “The Slave’s
Dream,” which is deplorable. There is
a good case for the teaching of more
Australian verse, and one must regret
the disappearance of cheap, well-printed
books like the Platypus series, in which
children could browse for themselves.
“5.8.” seems to be too backward-
looking. While I sympathise with him,
yet there are the words of that fine
modern poet, J. Elroy Flecker, which he
might consider:
Awake, awake! The world is young.
For all its weary years of thought;
The starkest fights must still be fought.
The most surprising songs be sung.
There should be room for that spirit
in the teaching of poetry, especially of
Australian poetry, in the schools.—
Martin Haley (Q.).
Cause of Costs
Our high costs are mainly the result
of our attempt to give protection to
everyone. That is impossible. Any pro-
tection given to one section has to be
paid for by some other section, and by
trying to protect everybody we finish up
protecting nobody. We have simply
made an all-round increase in costs,
nobody is any better off and everybody
finds it harder to sell on both the home
and overseas markets.
To reduce costs we will have to put
the skids under the pressure-groups who
are trying to keep up the price of what-
ever they have to sell, whether it be
labor, eggs or nylons, and the easiest
and fairest way to do that is to free the
exchange-rate, adopt a policy of free
trade and give our free-enterprise
system a chance to work freely.
-J. H. (Q.).
Ugly Music
That the ugly music being written today
reflects the ugly age in which we live is
a favorite highbrow argument. Fiddle-
sticks! All ages have been ugly. The
average man of Beethoven’s day faced a
harsh and squalid world. Yet Beethoven
had more sense than to compose noises
that would disgrace a boiler factory.
Solemn worship of ugly music is not,
° £ °° urse > t£ >, e onl [ mark o£ * e
If he cannot pretend to like that which
| s S b "d ° f ' en pre ‘ end
to hke that whlch 18 du 3
Piano virtuosity is the pet target of
these tYP es - For some elusive reason it
is quite permissible to be a virtuoso on
any other instrument. Kasals or Primrose
startle audiences with gymnastics
on the ’cello or viola with impunity, but
to electrify audiences with gymnastics on
a piano is asking for trouble,
Almost all great piano classics call for
finger gymnastics. If the sneer at gym-
nasties was honest the highbrow would
have to burn most of the world’s enduring
piano music.
Music would be better off without these
pompous fools.—G. F. P. (N.S.W.),
Double-space It
Contributors to these pages, as well
as to the rest of “The Bulletin,”
should double-space their lines,
whether using pen or typewriter.
If you do that you give your con-
tribution a good chance; otherwise
the odds are against it.
Double-space the lines, leave a
margin top, bottom and left-hand
side of each page. And number the
pages.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 253
Across
I—There’s1 —There’s nothing illegal about this
healthy walk. (14)
9 —ltalian city’s without the woolly
surface hair, being so worn and
so insomnious. (?)
10— Roy Rene is to disentangle this
policeman. (7)
11 — It shows where the inches have
fallen, with one inch between an
artist and his work. (4-5)
12— Jolson’s duck, too. (4)
14 — Gorky dictum is to keep mum on
the cricket team getting a thou-
sand. (5)
15 — Quadruped to sicken attack. (6)
19 — Tailor hiding where Antonio has
rated Shylock, many a time and
oft. (6)
20— Noel creates opportunities for
the use of this daughter of
Young Jolyon Forsyte and his
second wife. (5)
23—Chesterfield of the middle of
South Australia. (4)
25 —They are unagreeing and obstruc-
tive about close kinsfolk. (9)
27 — Young craft upon which a son
of Noah is seen. (7)
28 — Pear mentioned during a social
function on a Victorian river.
(7)
29—Unchanging in a published com-
position by the French city in
Asia. (14)
Down
1 — Tin alderman 1 seat is crab-
shaped. (10)
2 Table linen to sleep with rela-
tions. (6)
3 Ditch insect is cutting. (9)
4 Sat up with madness in such a
state. (8)
5 Suitable for summer eating
mother in toto. (6)
6 Nothing but friction over a West
Indian oil island. (5)
7 Area isn’t changing a sort of
bore. (8)
8 — Civil War general in the sheltered
side. (3)
13 —Port in 4 down makes novels
true. (10)
16 — Sailor’s post-office on an acces-
sory for sellers. (4-5)
17 — Cobber of the girl-friend of
Ginger Meggs of the mount. (8)
18 — Who is in ople? (8)
21 —Felony on a place for war a
century ago. (6)
22 —Ashless December and a legisla-
tor to run away in secret. (6)
24 —Plant pest in a ship. (5)
26 —Lincoln maizes one exist. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 252


NSW.: Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) P*r Ltd.,
V Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W.
VICTORIA: Elder vSmith & Co. Ltd., Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA; Elder, Smith & Co.
Ltd., Adelaide; Stockowners Shearing Lid.,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Ltd., Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURRAL NEWS
Thi. Page In a PAID ASmUSEMEI«
****** M<mtMy by MOFFAT-VIRTUE MMITISD
November
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1953
WE CAN’T SAY WE HAVEN’T BEEN
WARNED!...
Since June a campaign by Bushfire Control Authorities to
have adequate fire-breaks laid and modern fire-fighting
equipment at the ready for the peak fire-danger months,
November to February, has been carried on.
Through previous good seasonal
conditions promoting heavy
foliage and underbrush growth,
coupled with the semi-drought
conditions existing in many areas,
particularly Southern Queensland
and Northern N.S.W., a vast
tinder-box has been created. A
few sparks could start another
flaming holocaust similar to the
outbreaks in the ’5l-’ 5 2 seaspn
which cost N.S.W. alone a tragic
total of £6,000,000. Desperately
needed housing, irreplaceable
breeding stocks, trees, bird-life.
let alone human lives are the
food of the “demon fire.”
Preventative Measures
The old adage that “prevention
is better than cure” is certainly
applicable to fire-prevention. The
rural population always responds
splendidly in times of emergency
for volunteer fire fighting groups.
But properly planned and ex-
ecuted preventative measures are
bound to turn out better and less
expensive in the long tun.
Don’t let this
Happen To You
... you prob-
ably won’t
have to travel
far in Summer-
time to see a
scene like this
...That’s why
it’s so important
to he organised
to deal with
small fires be-
fore they get out
of hand.
U.S. FOREST SERVICE HAS EFFICIENT
FIRE-CONTROL ORGANISATION
Recognising the necessity for
speedy location and control of
fire-outbreaks to prevent a major
blaze, the U.S. Forest Service has
built up a highly developed fire-
fighting network, including
ground and air observation units.
Towers, mountain lookouts, and
aircraft patrols have helped mini-
mise the fire-risk in the vast State
Forests of the U.S.
Australian authorities are working
towards the achievement of a
similar organisation, with modern
equipment and skilled fire-control
offices. The sooner such goals are
achieved the better!
Rural Bank Establishes
Bushfire Research Foundation
The N.S.W. Rural Bank has
granted a fund for research into
devising and improving machinery
for speedier and more economical
prevention and control methods.
This research will tie in with the
more scientific aspects of bushfire
prevention at present being under-
taken by the C.S.I.R.G.
A PIECE OF ADVICE
(Extract from “Water v. Fire” U.S. Forest Service publication)
“Where there’s smoke there’s
burning fuel, and it’s always at
the root of the trouble. So.. .
“Whether water knocks the
flame
Depends a lot on how you aim."
“If it’s a bush burning, hit the
base ; if it’s a tree or a snag, hit
the bottom first, then work up
the trunk. As you spray water
on the fire-edge remember to
work in close with the finest
spray that will do the job—-not
too much, but just enough-
making sure that every drop
finds a piece of fuel to land on/’
PORTABILITY PLUS HITTING-POWER
FOR SPEEDIER FIRE-CONTROL...
Reprinted from the “Sydney
Morning Herald,” November
16th, 1953.
Quick action can stop a major blaze before it gets going. A small,
reliable fire-fighting plant that can be swiftly carried by one or two men
to the scene of a fire outbreak, even over the roughest terrain, is a sheer
necessity on any property-
Moffat-Virtue Ltd., alive to the
need for this type of equipment,
produced the new M.V. FIRE*
MASTER” (a spectacular addition
M.V. “ VB ” Firemaster
to their range of fire-fighters. . . .
the “SENIOR” and “Utility” Fire-
fighting Plants, the former of
which was specially developed
during the last War for use by the
U.s. Army).
The heart of the M.V. FJRE"
MASTER” is the M.V. Rota-
Duplex Fire Pump.... a
high pressure low-volume
pump which packs a
“Knockout” punch.
Output at max. pressure
.... for economical and
effective use of scarce
water: 3 gallons per
minute at 100 lbs. pres-
sure at each hose. Special
large nozzle for filling
hose for fighting fires in buildings,
haysheds, etc., where large quan-
tity of water required.
Output (for filling tanks or
drums): 25 gals, per minute.
Throw, at max. pressure: 60 feet.
Max. pressure: lOOlbs. per sq. in.
Two 30ft. lengths of spray hose
and one 20ft, length of suction
hose, \
The Firemaster comes in two
models: —
Model “MK2O,” powered by a
reliable 2 h.p. four-cycle air-
cooled Petrol Engine.
Model “V 3,” powered by the
famous Moffat-Virtue V 3 2 4 h.p.
Petrol Engine.
Full particulars may be obtained
from any of the Interstate Dis-
tributors for M.V. Lines listed at
the foot of this page.
TRANGIE PLAN
A proposed plan to divide the
Trangie district in N.S.W. into
10-mile squares with 200 yard
wide fire - breaks has been
applauded. Although the cost
might be high, it would reduce the
possibility of a major fire con-
siderably. On this point, the Presi-
dent of the Trangie Bushfire
Brigade asked whether anyone
who had been burned out could
say what, it had cost him. He
asked: “What would be the value
of 2,500 acres of grazing? After
the 1921 fires there were poor
years, and it was 1924 before the
land would carry normal amount
of stock.”
