

FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS
BUY SEPPELTS SOLERO SHERRY
The Bulletin
SHANGHAI CATS
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3805
Wednesday, January 14, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.WAustralia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
REGAL SANDRINGHAM HALL, COUNTRY HOME OF THE ROYAL FAMILY
rwas at Sandringham Hall that King George VI died on February 6th,
1952, and it was from 'there that he broadcast his last Christmas greeting
to his people throughout the British Commonwealth, an important annual
event which was inaugurated by his father, King George V. Since the reign
of King Edward VII (1901-1910) Sandringham, in West Norfolk, has been a
favourite country home of the Royal Family, and H.M. Queen Elizabeth 11
spent much of her childhood there.
The Sandringham estate, comprising 7,000 acres of woodland and heath,
meadow and marsh, is situated between Hunstanton and King’s Lynn. Roads
on the estate wind through deep woods of great variety and beauty, and in
early spring the well-kept grass verges are enriched by the bright purple ot
rhododendron bushes and the red and white luxuriance ot may-trees through
which may be glimpsed the massed colour of flower beds. The gardens at
Sandringham are some of the loveliest in Britain, and on certain days ot
the week in spring and summer, during the absence of the Royal family, they
are open to the public. The grounds are laid out m terraces and lawns; of
particular interest arc the Rose Garden, the Dutch Garden and the Water
Garden A stream runs through a dell where ferns dip their fronds in the
water, and at the foot of a rippling fall water-fowl glide sedately between
the lily pads in an artificial lake.
The first Royal owner of Sandringham was Edward VII ( a S j l ™ i ce or
Wales), who purchased the original estate for £220,000 in 1861 and tfufit the
present Tudor-slyle mansion in 1870. It was designed by Albert vjenk n
Humbert and erected by a local builder. Nearby .is the Church m which the
Royal family worship when in residence at Sandringham. It is mainly late-
perpendicular in style, and contains many royal memorials; among them are
marble medallions to Emperor Frederick 111 of Germany, Duke of Clarence
and Avondale, Duke of Coburg and Queen Victoria. The chancel and east
window are a memorial to King Edward. The silver altar was a gut from
an American, Rodman Wanamaker.
From the main road between Hunstanton and King’s Lynn can be seen
the magnificent Norwich Gates leading into the Sandringham estate whicL
were a gift from the City of Norwich to King Edward VIE They are splend d
examples of craftsmanship, and were shown at the International Exhibition i
1862. Along this same route can also be seen the purple-Wue lavender fields
of Norfolk from which is distilled the famous “Olde Enghshc Lavender Water.


Old
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
- CUT HERE AND MAIL
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(S.B. 253) Age......
The Red Page
THE NEW BRENT OF BIN BIN
The third to be published in Angus
and Robertson’s admirable standard
edition of the novels of Brent of Bin Bin,
Ten Creeks Run demonstrates once again
the lavish warmth of this writer’s picture
of Australia and the extreme peril a
young man faces who becomes a lover of
Miles Franklin’s heroines . . . for at this
date, in the absence of any denial from
Miss Franklin, one may reasonably
assume that she and Brent of Bin Bin
are identical.
It is in Ten Creeks Run that Larry
Healey, having proffered violent love to
young Milly Saunders, is assaulted with
a silver hatpin and spends the rest of the
night unconscious in a trap for wallaroos
—a very chastening experience for a Don
Juan of the Monaro who has already, in
the same novel, been threatened with a
shotgun-wedding (and actually shot-at by
the young lady) for seducing and then in-
sulting Milly’s cousin Dot; and these
incidents, I have no doubt, proceed in a
clear line from the first vehement reproofs
to lovers in Miles Franklin’s My Brilliant
Career when some rude “tomcatting”
young man is slashed across the face with
a riding-whip.
As interludes between the riding-whip
and the wallaroo-trap one may recall a
coal-scuttle which, if I remember rightly,
is hurled at a person who ventures to
propose marriage to the heroine of Pre-
lude to Waking; and if there is no more
serious onslaught on the male in Up the
Country than some mild throwing of
vegetables by a very young girl, it is in
that novel that the beautiful Emily
Mazere is drowned on the eve of her
marriage to Bert Poole . . . The girls as
well as the young men suffer serious
warnings against both matrimony and the
lighter adventures of love in these novels ;
and both the girl-heroines of Ten Creeks
Run are afflicted by being married-off
to old men: Aileen Healey to old Jack
Stanton, Milly to the once-dashing Bert
Poole of Up the Country, still surviving
in the present book with most of his dash
departed;
Aileen, in addition, is most effectively
afflicted, for having flirted with Ronald
Dice after her marriage, by losing her
infant son in the bush —a treatment of
this favorite theme of the Lost Child
nowhere excelled in Australian writing.
I still prefer My Brilliant Career to
these later novels, for all their greater
breadth. In its furious outcries against
love it is melodramatic and a little absurd
(as Ten Creeks Run strikes a modern
reader as absurd in such passages as,
“Who can estimate the anguish of a high-
spirited maiden when awakening to the
electrifying passion of first love to find
the reptile lust confronting her?”); but
My Brilliant Career is more sincere, more
intense, more genuinely naive in its
passionate rejection of passion than Ten
Creeks Run; it is genuinely the young
girl speaking, not the mature novelist
hammering away at some indignant suffra-
gette philosophy ; and in its naivety and
sincerity and intensity, as also in its swift-
ness and compactness, it has at not too
great a distance, in spite of the fact that
their philosophies are opposites, some-
thing of the quality of Wuthering Heights.
In Ten Creeks Run there is not quite
the fantastic spontaneity of My Brilliant
Career, the heroine lashing out with , her
riding-whip in some imperious dream.
The values of the later novel are more
realistic, and we are made a little too
much aware of the author manoeuvring
into position to strike ; forcing her people
to speak out of character so that the
suffragette philosophy may leap out and
smite them once more.
Thus Larry Healey, to induce the in-
dignant Dot to try to shoot him in her
father’s house, is obliged to say that he
might be “one of the men” who had
been sleeping with her; and since he has
not the slightest grounds for the accusa-
tion 1 doubt if he would say it. It
seems much more likely that Brent of
Bin Bin is just looking for another chance
to demonstrate the crudity of the male
mind and to show how readily high-
spirited maidens, insulted and ashamed,
will leap to reprove a lover with the first
lethal weapon that lies to hand. Again,
when Milly has turned in anguish from
the reptile lust of Ronald Dice, that un-
fortunate youth is made to say, apparently
as an even worse crime in suffragette
philosophy than kissing her, “The bloom-
ing world would be depopulated if a
fellow wasn’t enough of a man to take
a kiss from a pretty girl now and again,”
I really can’t believe that Ronald would
have had the problem of world-popula-
tion on his mind at that moment, or
would have said such a thing to induce
a young, unmarried girl to kiss him.
There are other episodes in Ten Creeks
Run, springing from this same curious
suffragette outlook on sex, that I find
difficult to accept. The author seems to
be “taking sides,” in a way that ignores
psychological realities, when Jack Stan-
ton is castigated as a wicked old man
for marrying young Aileen Healey while
Bert Poole, because his love is
“fatherly,” and he has thoughtfully
promised to commit suicide when
extreme old-age makes him too
much of a nuisance, is portrayed as
almost a saint for taking a similar advant-
age of young Milly when she flies from
the nocturnal enterprise of Larry Healey.
Even though,Milly is willing and Aileen
is not, Bert and Jack seem almost equally
wicked old codgers to me ; and I don’t
believe in any case that the high-spirited
young Milly, delightfully portrayed in the
midst of these improbabilities, would
marry old Bert just because Larry has
given her a fright. For one strange
moment of realism it seems, indeed, that
she is about to take the likeliest course
and surrender to Larry ; but at that point,
unfortunately, the novelist has neatly con-
trived to stun him.
To sympathise with Milly’s alarm in
full measure, incidentally, one has to
accept that she really believes a mere kiss
from Larry has made her pregnant ...
and even if the period is 1888-95, all this
is taking place on a Monaro cattle-station
where the facts of life can hardly have
been concealed as effectively as all that.
The marriage of Aileen Healey to old
Jack Stanton is much more plausibly
handled. I think some glint of avarice,
as well as the mere abnegation of weak-
ness, should be shown in her eye when
she marries the wealthy old squatter in-
stead of the |ay, young, penniless Ronald
Dice; but this may be read between the
lines, and Aileen in her fretful weakness
is one of the most convincing characters
Brent of Bin Bin has drawn.
When Ronald turns up again after the
marriage to renew the love-affair and
old Jack Stanton, discovering it, climbs
up the mountain to hurl rocks in rage
down the gorge, and Aileen, making love
with Ronald on the veranda, loses sight
of her little son, who wanders away to
be lost in the bush, so that the mother,
before he is found again many days later,
all-but goes out of her mind, Ten Creeks
Run does indeed take on a dramatic force,
a depth of emotion and a sure and com-
pelling swiftness of movement not to be
found in any of the novels since My
Brilliant Career. One of the mountain
streams—in contrast to the light bubbling
of Prelude to Waking and the meandering
of All That Swagger and Up the Country
—for once runs clean and fast through
the granite, taking the reader with it in
suspense never seriously interrupted.
So, too, in Dot Saunders’s shooting at
Larry and in Milly’s wild flight from the
same ambitious lover are there flashes of
the fire of My Brilliant Career. But as
these episodes with Larry are weakened
by repetition and the use of too-obvious
mechanism (and, in Dot’s case, by the
brevity of her entry amongst the be-
wildering host of people in the saga), and
as Milly’s marriage to Bert Poole is un-
convincing, so the whole love-story of
Dice and Aileen Stanton is destroyed in
retrospect by the belated revelation that
they have never been lovers in the full
sense of the term: or so the somewhat
confused and evasive text seems to indi-
cate. The mountain of adulterous
betrayal seems, after all, to have been
no more than the mouse of a kiss.
It seems a kind of trick played on the
reader. It is a fatal weakening of the
drama ; and it brings the reader squarely
to face with the paradox pervading all
the Brent of Bin Bin novels : that here we
have a long series of stories, all taking sex
as their central theme, yet all approaching
this theme in a spirit of militant and way-
ward opposition. No wonder the results
are sometimes indigestible.
Partly because of this paradoxical treat-
ment of sex, involving so many improba-
bilities of character and drama, partly
because of the lack of construction (not
applicable to Ten Creeks Run ) and partly
because of the minor quality of the
characterisation in general, I find myself,
on the whole, unable to admire
the Brent of Bin Bin novels, so
far as they have been published,
quite as much as I should like
t0....10ve1y as are both Up the Country
and Ten Creeks Run in their nostalgic
evocation of the countryside and the great
days of horsemanship, compelling in its
story as is Ten Creeks Run and splendid
in its magnitude as is the complete series.
I think it is reasonable to compare the
sequence with Trollope’s chronicles of
Barchester or the regional and historical
novels of Scott; and if we do that, though
we find many excellent characters in a
minor way—notably Aileen, Milly and
Jack Stanton in Ten Creeks Run; also
that very human couple who adopt Dot
Saunders’s illegitimate child —no major
and memorable feat of characterisation
has so far emerged from this richly-
painted Monaro countryside to com-
pare with the Rev. Mr. Crawley, that
wonderful shrew Mrs. Proudie or that
incarnation of puritan ferocity Balfour of
Burley. For which there are two reasons:
the multiplicity of the characters in the
grand scheme of the saga and the conse-
quent lack of a clear space in which to
concentrate on any individual; and the
centralisation of the novels on courtship
and marriage instead of some of the other
activities—moneymaking, for instance —
which engage the passions of mankind;
It is important not to overrate an Aus-
tralian novel merely because it is Aus-
tralian or because it has been called a
“classic”; one should recognise, at least,
what kind of a classic it is—in this case
beautiful but muddled. But, with all these
reservations, I don’t doubt that Ten
Creeks Run wifi have enduring life in
Australian literature. It has fine merits
along with its doubtful patches; and the
ardor and the grace with which Brent
of Bin Bin sets down the life of the squat-
tocracy of the period override all other
considerations.
The next two novels to be printed in
Angus and Robertson’s series— Cockatoos
and Gentlemen at Gyang Gyang —have
not previously been published.
D. S.
History from Cambridge
A matter in which the older English
universities are head and shoulders over
all other institutions is in their produc-
tion of standard works which live. It
is astonishing how many enduring books
in the last 30 years have been written in
the quiet cloisters of the Oxford and
Cambridge colleges where, some
foreigners believe, the only occupation is
sport and carousal.
pie histories published from the old
universities in the past three years have
been a case in point. There is Keith
Feiling’s A History of England, an 1100-
page condensation, full of new matter
and newer viewpoints and so impartial
that it deals with times almost contempo-
rary without raising contentious feelings
in any reader. The author of this is
Chichele Professor of Modem History
at Oxford, a worthy, successor to John
Richard Green, founder of the Oxford
Historical Society, who published his
Short History in 1874. There was the
England of Elizabeth by A. L. Rowse
of All Souls in the same year,
Cambridge has done more than its
share in the field of world history, and its
series of volumes is almost unique, but
scarcely for the student with a nominal
pocket. They represent an immense
labor, provide an almost inexhaustible
source of well-documented information,
but their bulk and the variety of hands
applied to write them are intimidating to
the ordinary reader who does not seek a
compendious reference work.
No single person is ever likely to com-
pass the whole of even one section of
the university’s historical effort which has
been in progress for many years. The
Cambridge Medieval History alone is in
eight large volumes. It is specifically a
Work of reference, and the writer of an
editorial note to a new two-volume
Shorter Cambridge Medieval History, by
Professor C. W. Previte-Orton, who was
one of the editors of the larger work, says
that it is “so vast that no student seek-
ing a general view of the development of
medieval Europe is ever likely to con-
template reading the whole of it”
Realising this the Syndics of the Unh
versity invited Professor Previte-Orton to
write his condensation. He finished it
before his death, after which it was edited
by Sir Philip Grierson, who has taken
account of advances in knowledge in the
past few years and arranged the chapters.
Though it is called a “shorter” history
the effort runs to two volumes with a
total of 1120 closely but clearly printed
pages. There are 265 illustrations, 26
maps and 27 genealogical tables, and
though the matter is supposedly con-
cerned with purely medieval ages, it be-
gins with the later Roman Empire of
Constantine, traces its break-up and the
rise of Islam, adequately covers the Dark
Ages and the founding of modern Western
Europe and thus carries the story through
to 1500, concluding with a chapter on
the transition to modern times.
For all their size, however, the books
are correctly described as a shorter his-
tory, each chapter a compact work in
itself. There are no words wasted, no
side-issues allowed to creep into the mam
stream of the narrative; yet little peril
tinent to an understanding of the flavor
of the various ages is omitted and the
picturesque is not despised, as the copious
illustrations, carefully chosen by Pro-1
fessor Steinberg, prove.
Much of the earlier reading is charged !
with , a vague sense of foreboding for i
those who view the current times on I
the eastern .marches of Europe, where old I
processes seem to be repeating them- J
selves in the sudden collapse of brittle \
nations like Rumania and Hungary, under I
the slow, relentless squeeze of Old Asia i
moving West. The same sort of things |
were happening slowly and imperceptibly |
in the 4th century as are happening today J
—the gradual weakening of religious |
fervor and observance ; the breakdown of |
racial prejudice ; the inevitable reactions oi: I
the rise of new religions to satisfy the age- 1
old longing of the human being for some ■
thing or somebody to worship, and in the I
hearts of later Roman Empires the growth I
of all the kind of things which today are 1
loosening the locks of the doors which j
hold back revolutionary change and i
violence. Luxury and sport and vote-
buying were the side-by-side growths of I
loose living in an intermediate period
when the old gods were being discarded $
and the new Christianity and Isiamism |
were being weaned.
lire phase of decay round about 400,
when there was a clear-cut disappearance
of the old, and the new rose out of its ;
swaddling clothes, comes up vividly in
the mind from this account as Theodosius
wrecks the old shrines, the Olympic
Games cease (394), sacrifices to the
heathen gods are declared to be treason
and the Eleusinian mysteries disappear as
AlariC destroys the temple of Demeter.
The only remains of the Old World
alive after that were in the groves of
scholarship. Strange it seems in view of
the liking of the modem scholar and
writer for change that conservatism
clung to life at this period, not among
the rich, but in cultured Athens, where
the teachers were pagans and Neo-
Platonists right up to the age of Justinian.
Saints like St. Jerome and St. Augustine
“seemed remorseful for the hold that
heathen literature kept upon themselves.”
Boethius, Christian and theologian, still
harbored intimate thoughts flavored with
pagan philosophy in the 6th century,
and the paganism of old Rome, with its
addiction to magic and the placation of
friendly spirits, lived on among the more
primitive strata of the peasants and
workers, in whom some of it is not
altogether lost even today.
The next hundred years saw the Roman
Empire drenched in blood and overrun
{“Red Page” continued on page 35)
THE TOWN
Like any grey old-timer droving
dreams
Across the inland of the past he
tramped in.
Now his looking-back desire, this
town,
I think, pines for the bark huts that
it camped in;
_
For its billy-tea and damper days, the
sound
Of bullock-wagons rumbling through
its mornings.
And squatters riding by and station-
hands
Playing cards beneath its shanty
awnings.
I half expect it shall some day arise.
Puff one last cloud of smoke in its
decision
And walk away among the hills and
find
Another campfire closer to its vision.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


Make this a tlream-come-irue year with a
Washing Machine
. asg
3HBi
m
Hi
v;-v
a resolution so easy to carry out when you buy from our
electrical centre
Comes the new year, and come the resolutions. Usually directed
at the budget, we’ve found. Mention buying a washing machine
at this time and most people would shrink in horror. But not
when it’s bought on the easiest terms in Sydney, when it’s a
guaranteed famous brand. Specially not when it saves laundry
bills, washday fatigue. No Sir! Were buying a washing machine!
At left: Simpson, the Canadian'
designed washer. Instantaneous
safety release bar on wringer. Press
knob to set in motion, lift to stop.
Fitted with Lowell Pressure Cleans'
ing Wringer. 12 months’ guaram
tee. Priced at £B2/15/-. 240 volt.
Right: Another grand washer . . .
the Savage. Washes weekly wash
of 40 lbs. in 40 minutes. Washes,
blues, spin rinses and spindries all
clothes completely in the- one tub.
Automatically pumps out soiled
water. All nickelled. £l2B/-/-,
or the, easiest terms!! 240 volt.
A CLEANER FOR EVERY MODERN HOMEMAKER WITH
Hoover Vacuum Cleaners
Trust Hoover to give you such a choice of cleaners! 3 models that not only clean your carpets
and floors, but your whole home. Hoover, the cleaner that beats as it sweeps as it cleans.
ft p
*
&
smm
sr«
mmtm *m
m
mm
5
m
m
m
m.
Lj i vs
m
iliM
i
w.
m
Ml
m
m
W mwM
mui
i
*
mm
m
r £
*
■■l
■
m
H
Mi
til
1
::
■i
*
■ '—■!' ~!^.......
Wmmmm
m.
4m.
Hoover Junior (Model 119) features the same triple
action. All Hoovers will clean curtains, walls, furnri
ttire. With special attachments, it’s a complete home'
cleaning unit. Priced at £3l/13/-, or easy terms.
Hoover Cylinder Cleaner (Model 402) will handle any home-
cleaning task with its full range of attachments. It s light to use,
glides effortlessly on steel runners. Cleaner empties with touch
of a toe. The 402 stores on end in cupboard. £29/18/-.
Hoover (Model 612) cleans in three ways. It beats
loose all grit. It sweeps up fluff, light surface dirt,
then by powerful air suction cleans it all away into
dustproof bag. Priced at only £42/3/-, or easy terms.
All these labour savers also available in 32 volt or 110 volt on
fs
ELECTRICAL CENTRE, GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET.
’PHONE; M 2401. MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.


Mimi Laps Cream, Mike Laps Beer
SHANGHAI CATS
By MABEL WALN SMITH
mm T m HE morning I first met Mimi, my
S pure white Persian cat, I was
C J strolling through the Chinese
market in Shanghai. Liu, who had
been perfect cook-boy to my husband
long before I appeared on the scene, was
inclined to look upon me as an expensive,
if not altogether unnecessary, luxury in
our household. It behoved me to keep
my eye on local food prices, so that I
could show my mettle when we totted-up
the weekly meat and vegetable accounts
together.
Spring rain hung in the air, moistened
the paving-stones, freshened the heaps of
bamboo- and bean-sprouts, the green
vegetables, red and yellow fruit, brown
ginger-root and water black
dates and myriad other good things which
the vendors had brought to be sold. I
was dodging along between swaying
chunks of pork, tubs of live fish, excited
ducks, chickens tethered by one leg . . .
when I overtook Mimi. She —a tiny
kitten—was riding a-top a basketful of
eggs carried by a stout farm-woman.
Mimi reached out and tapped my sleeve
to attract my attention. Her heart-shaped
face was framed in fluffy white fur, her
blue eyes and pink tongue smiled up at
me. So, of course, she was soon in my
pocket, travelling home with me. Cost?
Sixpence, and a brisk slap on my behind
from the laughing farm-woman.
A cucumber was also in my pocket.
Had there been two cucumbers there still
would have been room for Mimi. We
travelled at a sharp pace, I taking it for
granted that she had been stolen, and
arrived breathless inside my kitchen-door.
Liu, owner of a pet goldfish—named
Li-tai-po after China’s best-known poet —
was sceptical when I set my feline scrap
of fluff before him. But he settled down
presently and lined a box with cotton-
wool for Mimi to sleep in.
This tiny kitten proved to be venture-
some. Once I rescued her from drown-
ing in the goldfish-bowl. Liu vowed that
Li-tai-po had given her a well-deserved
knockout blow with his tail. I, looking
at that salmon-colored satin body with its
double-chiffon trimmings, didn’t believe
this, but I said nothing. We were all
relieved when Mimi permanently gave
up fishing.
She grew like wildfire, dinging so
firmly to me that she bit my husband
twice bfefore she acknowledged him as
having any claims under our roof. Had
I been willing to give up family, friends,
husband and other hobbies, Mimi and I
could have had a very full life together.
Sometimes I thought of mating her with
another pure Persian and selling the
choice kittens —usually at the end of a
month when my housekeeping money
wouldn’t balance. But always there was
such a fierce flying of fur, and Li-tai-po
swirling frightened round the goldfish-
bowl, that I gave it up and enjoyed Mimi
as the unmarried beauty that she was.
Then came the evening one of my
husband’s saltier tramp-skipper friends
came to call. This skipper was Irish as
Paddy’s pig, and, wrapped in his double-
breasted bridge-coat, wherever he went
a breath of the briny waves surged round
him.
Skipper never travelled alone, neither
on land nor sea. Mike travelled with
him. Mike was his tomcat, square-rigged,
dark brindle, full of purr and blarney.
And he rode high up, buttoned well inside
the thick dark blue pilot-cloth of Skipper’s
bridge-coat.
Mike and Skipper were alike in many
ways: both had cauliflower ears ; both
drank beer; considered themselves
“ladies’ men.”
My pure white Mimi, who looked upon
all other cats as mere snakes in wolf’s
clothing, cut a lovely plumed arch as she
leapt from my lap to sanctuary with Liu
in the kitchen when Skipper and Mike
rolled in our front-door.
While we three humans ate our dinner
on the table, Mike ate his under the table
—a bone which he gnawed like a dog.
Now and then, as Liu in his starched
white gown served us, I caught a glimpse
of our dainty Mimi, her horrified gaze
frozen on Mike and his bone. She pre-
ferred to lap a little thick cream, or to
nibble at morsels of chicken-liver—and
don’t try to palm duck-liver off on her
either!
When he had finished his bone, Mike
topped his meal off with a saucer of beer.
He washed his face in a rough way, then
stretched himself out on the floor and
closed his eyes. “A tough, healthy jungle
cat,” I said. “Beautiful in strength, but
scarcely civilised.”
Skipper’s laugh rumbled all round us.
“Sure now, maybe we’re both not
civilised, Mike an’ me!” he chuckled.
A.nd once again we were on his tramp-
ship, s.s. Wanderlust, rolling down
toward Rio.
Mimi, meanwhile, seeing Mike fast
asleep, resumed the game she played with
me at evening—leaping like long streaks
of plumed lightning from bedroom to
study, to hallway, to living-room, to bed-
room, to spare-room .. . With me snatch-
ing at her in transit. Skipper’s laugh
boomed out. “Sure now, an’ she’s playing
hard-to-get, the Snowy Lovely! What
about it, Mike?”
Mike woke up suddenly and made a
dart at Mimi. Quick as a flash she was
across the pantry, into the kitchen and out
the back-door.
They must have met under the lilac
bushes. Short, sharp battle-cries rang
out . . . and Mike was back in the living-
room with us, one great fur paw towelling
his scratched nose. “That’s it!” I said.
“He got what was coming to him.”
Mimi failed to return to us. For eight
weeks I despaired of ever again feeling
that soft pat of her paw on my face
waking me at morning. Then, the day
wash-amah joined our household, Mimi
walked unannounced into our kitchen.
Trailing five new kittens behind her.
They were wide-faced little Mikes, all
right. All square-rigged five of them sit-
ting there in a rowdy row on my kitchen
floor. Even amah burst out laughing as
Mimi tripped daintily toward me, her hips
swaying, truly provocative.
Came World War II, nibbling first at
Europe. Skipper was a man eager to
get mixed up in it. He arrived one
evening at the big house where we now
lived, unbuttoned his double-breasted
bridge-coat disgorging Mike on to our
living-room floor, rushed back to his ship,
and headed toward Europe. So we had
Mike with us for a year.
“Just be sure he gets a saucer of beer
after each meal, now,” was all the feed-
ing instruction Skipper had chuckled back
over his shoulder at me when he billeted
his tomcat with us. And Mike was no
real trouble at all as long as we had beer
in Shanghai. Afterwards . . .
Mimi thrived while we housed Mike —
the only cat she’d ever tolerate. But
while Mike approved of an Isolationist
programme for her, he followed the
Open Door policy himself. The only
reason he hadn’t a sweetheart in every
port was because he’d not been to all the
ports. Meanwhile he cruised round the
alleyways of Shanghai, thrashing the other
toms and charting the feminine possi-
bilities. After this he found a cushioned
chair on our upstairs landing, and, when
dark came on, went to sleep.
Then began those ladies’ nights which
made us so outstanding amongst our
neighbors. Cats of all shapes, sizes,
color and vocal pitch would queue-up on
our high garden walls, cling from the
roofs of our greenhouses, circle our
fountain, drip from our weeping-willow-
trees.
My husband, on these shrill occasions,
refused to make use of the alarm-clocks.
STORY
“Gran’s Busy Birthday”
by M. G. Vincent
A family reunion around a peppery
old autocrat, the dictator of a New
South Wales country town, on his
birthday, with some skullduggery over
the site of the new hospital which
proves that there’s life in the old
dog yet.
In next week’s “Bulletin”
old shoes and pitchers of water I tried
to hand him. He just strode on to the
upstairs landing, shook Mike awake and
threw him out of our bedroom window.
Then we got some sleep.
Wash-amah kept Mimi in snowy
splendor—seeming to just count her in
with the day’s wash —and found homes
for so many kittens of such fighting repu-
tation that rats left our section of the
city . . . possibly took to open boats on
the river rather than risk meeting one of
Mike’s offspring.
When the war in Europe flowed out to
the Orient, food and drink became scarce.
Mike refused to accept beer-rationing.
He needed beer, demanded beer, didn’t
see why he couldn’t have beer. He
grumbled and growled and meowed
hoarse down in his throat so like a wild
jungle cat that I was glad when he went
back to sea. Skipper simply rolled in one
evening, buttoned Mike high up in his
bridge-coat, and the two of them went
aboard the s.s. Wanderlust. “Sure now,
an’ we’re off again!” shouted Skipper as
they headed out toward saltwater.
Wash-amah and Mimi, hidden in the
shadows, watched Mike’s departure.
Amah, now my staunch ally in our house-
hold, had that wholesome home-baked-
loaf look on her face ; Mimi, now arrived
at cat middle-age, seemed relieved to be
carrying her last batch of kittens., Mike
didn’t even glance back.
Tomcats take to the sea as quickly as
men do, even though you watch ’em.
That Folly Called Fishing
GARDENING, someone has
said, is the purest of human
pleasures. But it is fishing
which inculcates in its de-
votees the true spirit of philosophical
tranquillity.
Observe the angler who for the
third time in 10 minutes is hauling
in what he accurately estimates is a
121 b. snapper, only to feel the line
on each occasion suddenly go dead,
and brings in a large, bony, speckled
head. There will be no rageful sling-
ing-down of the line, no gnawing his
fingernails, no adjectival tirade
against the sea-lawyer that has been
helping itself to an easily-gained feed
in the depths. At most you would
hear a mild “Oh, well, I suppose he
needed it more than we did,” before
he reaches down and patiently
threads another yellow-tail on the
hook.
The philosophical outlook, too, is
born of the patient resignation which
comes of having to get up .at an hour
when a lot of people are just going
to bed, so as to be out on the feeding-
grounds before daylight. I know one
enthusiast who rushed out of his
bayside weekender in the dark of a
bitter July morning, tore down the
ramp on to his pontoon and then
stepped straight into Bft. of icy water.
Did he emerge and, after gasping
back to normal breathing, rend the
heavens with invective? He did not.
Joyously he grabbed the rope which
led down to his fish-trap and began
hauling in—he’d noticed much phos-
phorescent swirling on his way down
and tipped there was something big
in the trap. It proved to be a 201 b.
groper. He changed his clothes, then
rowed across to his favorite possie,
there to do a perish for four hours
and get nary a nibble, perfectly
happy.
But that’s fishing.
Nothing is more conducive to
general bonhomie in angling circles
than for a fisherman sitting in his
boat to hook a decent-sized fish and
then for some other less-fortunate
fisherman, seeing his success from
afar off, to up-anchor and come
furiously across, to park a boat’s-
length or two away from the suc-
cessful one. A kindly-voiced request
for the newcomer to “Come a bit
closer, mate, and you can get right
inside me bloody boat” is usually
taken in the same spirit in which it
is offered.
Silence while fishing is one of the
unwritten laws. The caster-out in the
darkness may be whirling his line
around his head in big powerful
sweeps when his mate, sitting for’ard,
happens to bob up to reach for the
tin of hurley, stops half a large, fast-
travelling mackerel behind the ear
and is propelled overboard. Is it not
understandable, then, that a note of
gentle remonstrance may creep into
the caster’s voice as he requests his
fellow-fisherman, in whispers, to
make less noise as he is thrashing
about in the water?
Bait is an all-important problem.
Fish being notoriously cannibalistic,
many amateur fishermen won’t fish
with any bait but another fish.
The question, then, is what are
they to start off with to catch their
bait, such as yellowtail and mackerel?
This especially applies to the tyros
who find prawns, which rapidly be-
come “high” in the sun, a fatal con-
comitant to a heaving boat.
The best way for such fishermen
is to go early to the markets on the
morning of their outing and outbid
for a 6ft. shark a fish-shop-keeper
who specialises in snapper fillets. This
will riot only ensure them all the
bait they need but something to take
home for the neighbors should luck
be out for the day.
For the strong-stomached hard-
heads, though, there is nothing to
beat mullet-gut. To the less hardy
landlubber a tinful of mullet-gut that
has been in the boat all of a summer’s
day would be equivalent to a shot of
pentathol or ether; to the ardent
fishermen it has the qualities of
French perfume,
Fishing is a solemn business, and
one of the few occasions on which
levity is permitted among the
brotherhood in action is when a
woman tyro is indulgently taken out
to “try her hand” and she is told to
“dive your hand in that bait-tin under
the seat.” The look of ghastly horror
that spreads over her face when she
looks at the noisome mess dripping
from her hand almost compensates a
fisherman for the inevitable time
when he reaches for the net to slide
under the big jewey he has
manoeuvred up to the gun’l of the
boat, only to see it shake out the
hook which had barely caught the
soft part of the lip, and disappear
i nto the green depths.
Catching school-sharks from a
boat can be good sport. I know a
couple of fellows who started out
f° r a day’ B fishing around 6 am.
Half an hour later one of them landed
a lively young shark, but in his ex-
citement forgot to wooden it over
the snout with the rudder-handle be-
fore skull-dragging it into the boat,
Only a minute or so before it was
hooked they had each landed a
bream, but hadn t had time to get
!J eir ‘“f 1 “*»*”• «“> *™e
‘ h J„ d C „ hased he COV ! J ,th tbe s ? nd :
d ,°Tf, Mt
be r f ° re ,f"f Ld Inf I*J"T!
. llne f s had ?, ot mto the , best
bu “* ° f g ™ peS se . en , a ‘ on 8
* e ( jjf ** h * t kn °'
n ’ - , . .
Every amateur fisherman should
have a fish- rap working for
n 1 u r ° W 'c
mg a , mlIe *° collect a he ?P o£
” ussels ’ ba j hm B..them up with a
ha “ mer and £ u 8 T “ C ‘.T
with a hambone and some stale
bread a fisherman may net 14 star-
fish a blubber a coup le of porcu .
pine . fish and a wirrah ghat's the one
ou boil with b i uem etal and when
the metal is soft the fish is edible) .
It has been estimated that a 2 01 b.
groper swims into a trap on an aver-
once in 35 ears
Qne of the minor joys of the fisher-
man j s wben a t close of day he goes
to pull in the aft pick and finds it
stuck fast between subme rged rocks.
jj e a j ms b j s boat to a fi po j n t s G f the
compass, but it won’t budge, and
finally he abandons the job as dark-
ness j s f a fij n g 5 cutting the rope and
tying the end to a piece of wood he
finds on the shore. Either (1) he
selects a bit of ironwood or similar
vegetable which immediately sinks ;
or (2) he comes back next morning
to resume salvage operations, only
to find an early scavenger, chugging
past and seeing rope and wood, has
given one tug and become richer by
a solid galvanised anchor,
Bo.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Janu 1953
Vol. 74—No. 3805
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
•Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE NEW FIRM
Next Tuesday the Truman Government goes out of
office in the United States, and with its going two
decades of Democratic rule will come to an end.
In international relationships the period has been
eventful but not glorious. The United States under
Democratic government has used the financial strength
created by a free enterprise which the party
has always professed to distrust to establish
itself as the arbiter of the fate of the West, and it
has been lavish in its ideas and given to believing that
money and immediate resources provide the answers
to all problems of international morals, progress and
international relationships.
Yet it cannot be said that it has completely
succeeded anywhere. The generous policy towards
Russia which stemmed from Mr. Roosevelt has been a
tragic failure. It has placed the Russians very nearly in
control of mainland Asia and all eastern Europe
(except two or three stubborn little countries), and
given Moscow rights and resources which it never
should have been granted. It was not very successful
in Japan, propaganda notwithstanding. It will probably
be found within the next few years, as it was during the
Occupation, that any love the Japanese have for the
United States has been, and is, cupboard-love. U.N.0.,
which seemed to be regarded by the Democratic regime
as its special instrument of world policy, has become
an object of derision with most thinking men, the
Truman Government itself made somewhat ridiculous
by the revelations of Communist activities by its own
nominees to permanent positions.
S The tendency with the Roosevelt and Truman
Administrations has always been to strain towards
domination in other people’s affairs. They particularly
seemed to be aimed, in accordance with the theories
of “democratic” Leftism which have pervaded its views,
to the weakening of the British Commonwealth and
the attraction of British elements away from the United
Kingdom into its own orbit of influence. Examples
of this are to be found in its interferences in Indian
affairs and its enthusiasm for the Anzus Pact, with
the United Kingdom excluded. With Russia, since
that country revealed its hand, it has tended to be
provocative rather than strong.
Australia has to thank the Roosevelt-Truman
outlook for the existence of an unstable Indonesia
on its northern flank —an Indonesia which is now fast
losing its cohesion. Without the misguided support
given to Soekarno by the Democratic Administration
in Washington the friendly Dutch would never have
been driven out of Java. Without United States
approval Burma would not have become an independent
“nation” (if such its quarrelling rabble of tribes can be
called), Korea would not have been divided into two
absurd temporary nations, and the Russians would
never have been brought into the Far Eastern war on
the basis which enabled them to have a foothold on
the Pacific, and to steal Manchuria and establish a
puppet Communist Government in China. The Indo-
China position probably would not have arisen.
At the moment the Truman Administration is
going out with warnings to Russia of the foolishness
about starting a third world war ; but the Russians
must be grinning broadly as they reflect how much
advantage they owe to the policies of “Democracy”
in the United States and “Labor” Socialism in the
United Kingdom and Australia.
It is to be hoped that there will now be a
change. President Eisenhower has already shown a
practical appreciation of the true facts, strategic and
communal, as they affect the globe. Mr. Churchill
would scarcely be in the United States at such a time
if it had not been made very plain to him that he
would be welcome and that the new Administration
wishes to begin its reign with a properly-based scheme
of co-operation with the British Commonwealth as a
first major objective. Both he and General Eisenhower
rightly see the West as the immediate danger-spot in
a military sense ; for if the lights of Europe were to
go out the whole world would be in chaos, perhaps
for generations.
That Mr. Churchill can say openly without thought
of tact that he hasn’t “had the advantage—which
President Roosevelt promised me —of having the
fullest possible information about U.S. atomic bombs”
seems to suggest that he knmys there will be a closer
liaison with President Eisenhower.
In the present state of the world, having regard
to their correlated types of genius, the two great groups
of English-speaking States formed by the United States
and the British Commonwealth must be the dominating
factors in progress and civilisation so long as they
THE WHITE MAN'S BURDEN
stick together and follow their traditional lines of
influence and development. Interference or competi-
tion between them on lines of imperialism, whether
commercial or territorial, could present the world to
Russia within a generation or so.
Finance and the States
This is the land of lots of time, very costly time. It
took the Prime Minister less than a week to return
from London with the results of the urgent Empire
conference resolutions, but it requires two months to
get the State leaders together to hear what is “vital”
for them to know from him.
Apart from the information about the prospects
of raising overseas loans and how to earn them, Mr.
Menzies has to ginger-up the State leaders to resume
the responsibility of raising their own income-tax
revenues, at the mere mention of which most of them
run miles in the opposite direction.
Of the three chief spending States, all sporting
“Labor” Governments, Victoria (under a previous
Ministry dominated by “Labor”) had begun an action
in the High Court to declare the Commonwealth’s
levying of income-tax for the State unconstitutional,
but has abandoned it ostensibly as something now
offered voluntarily which “Labor” politics no longer
wants; N.S.W. refuses to attend the Premiers’ Con-
ference until after State elections at which its Govern-
ment will campaign against the Menzies Government
for “withholding funds” ; and the Queensland Premier
declares the A.L.P. conference in Adelaide more
important because there will be thrashed out the party
line for attack on the Commonwealth financial policy
as a means of rallying the thorny divisions within its
own ranks on a constructive programme for Socialist
presentation, including lower Commonwealth taxation
to meet higher expenditure than ever —if the Evatt-
Calwell soapbox propaganda is any criterion.
A short time ago the N.S.W. Government was
sacking railway employees and stopping all public
works in order to create the desired electoral
atmosphere for an attack on the Commonwealth as
unable to maintain “full employment.” Dr. Evatt
meanwhile was stumping the eastern cities explaining
that “full employment” is impossible without cheap
money, meaning money at nominal interest-rates,
lower even than those which had already made the
bond-investors button-up their pockets. Now N.S.W.
Premier Cahill finds that certain stopped railway
works can be resumed, at least for the electioneering
weeks, and declares that, instead of not being able
to build schools, his Government has a wonderful
record of 700 new classrooms recently finished or
about to be finished. In Victoria the late puppet Mc-
Donald Government, manipulated by “Labor” for
two years, also stopped all work on school-buildings
for the electioneering outcry against Commonwealth
anti-inflation measures; but no sooner was “Labor”
returned .at the elections than its Ministers have
“discovered” that by spending less than £lOO,OOO a
flush of primary and secondary schools could be
completed immediately.
The “Labor” build-up is aimed at winning the
Senate elections in May so that it may command
sufficient votes in that Chamber to defeat the Govern-
ment’s efforts to hand back State income-tax levies
to the States. Premier Cahill in N.S.W. doesn t
want the conference before his elections. He is billed
to secure with his newly-rigged electorates a “verdict”
from his State against the Commonwealth’s refusal to
countenance the monetary inflation which Dr. Evatt
says is necessary to enable the illusion of overfull
employment to work. The Premiers’ Conference was
proposed for the coming week in order that all State
Governments could propound honest election pro-
posals for financing programmes reasonably capable
of being carried out, and especially for their resump-
tion of full revenue-raising responsibilities. But this
obviously does not suit the book of “Labor’s” Senate
campaign, already “opened” with a blast of invective
against sane finance by Dr. Evatt.
On this set-up it will not matter two straws
whether Premier Cahill attends the Canberra con-
ference or not, except that by having it postponed he
can later (if all goes well) put up the alibi that
Canberra is refusing him all the money to spend that
his electors will have first authorised him to spend.
If this electioneering succeeds, too, Mr. Cahill will be
able to go to London for the Coronation and stand
with Dr. Evatt and Mr. Gair of Queensland in the
wings while the members of the late London economic
conference reassemble to review the action on
resolutions which the pro-inflation party in Australia
refuses to touch with a 40ft. pole.
Mr. Menzies must have been aware that
“Labor” was determined to campaign against the
economic plan in every State; Dr. Evatt’s behavior
for months past has been sufficient notice of that.
After all “Labor’s” campaigning against excessive
Commonwealth taxation as oppressive Mr, Menzies
has earned the right to tell the States plainly
that the Commonwealth is raising currently some
£lBO million of income tax for State spending; that
in the coming financial year his Government will reduce
taxation by at least £135 million of this, the amount
of tax-reimbursement to the States, raised on their
behalf; and that the Taxation Commissioner, using the
now-accustomed single return by taxpayers, will, fail-
ing other agreement, be authorised to surcharge the
reduced Commonwealth assessments by such per-
centage as the States may demand of the amounts the
Commonwealth has hitherto been collecting for them.
Something like that should set the ball in motion.
If, as the Victorian Government was advised, the
Commonwealth’s monopoly of income taxation is an
infringement of States’ sovereignty, it is open to any
taxpayer to challenge the system, and no argument
on the convenience of the present process —wildly
abused as it has been, too, by State Governments
could avail against an offence against the Constitution,
if the High Court should so rule.
Constitutional lawyers have declared that State
sovereignty cannot long survive the uniform-taxation
process as at present abused by party politics. When
the States protest against being charged with the most
elementary responsibility of sovereign government they
have no claim to further existence. Maybe that is
what “Labor” is aiming at, as a first step towards
unification.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Taxation Statistics
Release by the Commonwealth Statis-
tician of some comparative figures of
taxation—State, Commonwealth, and
combined totals —over pre-war and post-
war periods received notice with splashed
headlines in the daily Press of every State.
All wrung their hands over the present
aggregate of State and Commonwealth
taxation at £ll6 14s. lOd. a head with
the relatively insignificant per capita
levies of the good old days, without, how-
ever, measuring the figures by changed
money-values, or any other criterion.
“Labor” speakers promptly used them
to point their current —and false —propa-
ganda about heavier taxation now than
under the Chifley “Labor” Government.
There is one ready yardstick for check-
ing such excesses and that is the basic-
wage level, a measure both of relative
costs and of relative individual income
with the mass of taxpayers. Applying it,
this is how the figures look, comparing
taxation raised in 1948-49, the last com-
plete financial year of the Chifley Govern-
ment, and the amount for 1951-52:
For 1948-49 the aggregate of taxation
per head was £67 12s. Id. and the basic-
wage (Sydney) declared at the end of that
financial year was 1275.
For 1951-52 the aggregate of taxation
per capita was £ll6 14s. lOd. and the
basic-wage at the end of that financial
year was 2235.
In terms of a basic-wage of 2235. as a
common yardstick the aggregate tax of
the Chifley Government’s last year would
have been £llB 14s. a head, against
£ll6 15s. today.
Each of these per capita tax-loads is
away above that of the pre-war years and
also that of the early war years before
Japan became a combatant —the financial
year 1941-42, with which some adverse
comparisons have been made, was also
the last year before uniform taxation was
introduced.
The chief reasons for the increase are
(1) the huge cost which “social-security”
services add to the Commonwealth
Budget and (2) the effect of an inflated
currency (representing shortage of man-
hour production) upon costs of these
and all other Government services. Those
who dwell upon the aggregate per capita
tax aggregate of “only” £l7 19s. sd.
in 1938-39 are deluding themselves unless
they construe it in terms of modern
money-value, which is (by basic-wage
yardstick) about one-third of its pre-war
value. That puts the 1938-39 figure for
comparison at not £lB, but about £54.
The per capita tax level for 1951-52,
£ll6-odd, is double this—representing the
cost of a six years’ world-war, plus the
expenditure on war-pensions and repatria-
tion thereby incurred, plus some five years
of “cold war” and two years of “shooting
war” in Korea, plus rearmament and the
financing of the “Welfare State.”
A New Attempt
The arrival of a Japanese Ambassador
in Australia marks a fresh start for rela-
tionships between this country and Japan.
Australia took the first step by the
appointment of Dr. Ronald Walker as
Ambassador in Tokyo some months ago.
Japan is needed, apart from anything
else, to complete the guardian ring of
nations round the Pacific Ocean, and if
she were to join the other side (which is
unlikely at present, since Japanese civilisa-
tion does not lend itself to the needs of
Communism) it would not only leave a
menacing gap in the ring-defence, but
would provide the Communists, the only
enemy in sight, with an outlet to the
Pacific, and with a vast store of highly-
technical labor, naval and military know-
ledge and with the ingredient which they
lack more than any other —a seafaring
ally which can make up for their own
deficiencies as a naval country. Locked
in by Japan, the United States (in the
former Japanese islands along the China
Sea), by the Philippines and by the British
possessions farther south, the Russians
and Chinese are less dangerous to us than
they would be with Japan either open to
them or in their power.
Japan is already providing consider-
able resources for the Korean war as well
as the bases from which it is fought. The
Japanese probably know as well as any-
body that they made a grave mistake in
1941. And if they don’t they soon will
as it comes home to them how much
dependent they are on the West for the
resources to continue to exist as a nation.
Just now the Japanese are facing the
same menace as ourselves. Their need of
the help of the West is urgent and ever-
present. Stripped by the folly of their
leaders of the power to defend themselves,
they Ifre within sound of Russian guns.
If Western protection were withdrawn
they would be promptly subjugated. Only
the presence of United Nations troops in
their islands saves them from going the
way of Manchuria and China.
More-or-less Local
About four years ago, in pursuance of
its policy of making local-government less
local and more political, the N. S. Wales
“Labor” Government forced the shires
and municipalities in the Shoalhaven area
to amalgamate into one big shire of Shoal-
haven. It had previously sounded out
the opinion of municipal authorities be-
tween Nowra and Ulladulla and had
found them overwhelmingly against the
amalgamation ; but the sounding-out was
apparently just a formality. Having failed
to get the consent of the people most
concerned in the matter, the Minister for
Local Government decided to go ahead
with his plan just the same. Obviously
the ratepayers of the district didn’t know
what was good for them, and they" must
be given the benefits of amalgamation
whether they wanted them or not. The
Minister was the Hon. J, J. Cahill, now
Premier of N. S. Wales.
The people of Shoalhaven shire have
now had four years’ experience of the
promised benefits, and they still don’t
appreciate them. Their distaste became
so obvious a month or so ago that the
council wrote to the Minister for Local
Government asking him to hold an in-
quiry into the constitution and administra-
tion of the shire. Mr. Renshaw is now
the Ministerial head of the department
formerly graced by Cahill, but the policy
is unchanged. He refused an inquiry,
saying that he “recognised that this re-
quesUhas emanated from certain factions
within the shire.” How a request framed
by a majority of members of a council
which was itself elected by a majority
of voters in the shire could be said to
come from “certain factions” might
puzzle the layman, but in the official
“Labor” lexicon any group opposed to
the “Labor” viewpoint is a faction.
Mr. Renshaw’s refusal is, of course,
perfectly logical. An inquiry would
merely reveal that the people of the shire
don’t like the amalgamation, and he, or
his predecessor and present leader, knew
that four years ago. And, besides, at the
present time he is being kept busy, much
nearer home, explaining why it isn’t his
business to take action against mayors
and ex-mayors who, absentmindedly or
otherwise, render themselves liable to dis-
qualification from their office by buying
cement from their council or by using
council labor and plant in building homes
for their wives.
France's Troubles
A danger to world safety is the con-
tinued instability of France, which has
been a nation of moving waters ever since
World War I, when the core of the
national strength was eaten out and the
flower of the country’s manhood
destroyed.
Any nation can be forgiven for a period
of instability after experiences such as
France has gone through during the past
century and a half. The revolution which
was to free the world only produced a
dictator who shattered the structure of
Europe and consigned millions of young
Europeans to the grave. The wars of the
19th century culminating with Sedan
steadied the French, strengthened the
country to the limit militarily but pro-
duced a spirit which had a great deal to
do with the amalgamation of German
States into a Power as greedy and
ambitious as Napoleonic France, and with
the war which caused the ultimate wreck
of French morale and the overwhelming
defeats easily inflicted by Hitler’s
Reichswehr in 1940.
Now France is the main danger to the
stability of Western defence against Com-
munism. The revolutionary tradition still
lingers, and the country is torn by
the bitter enmities of class and sectional
interest, the individualism and “every-
man-for-himself” attitude which the
tribulations and defeats of the French
have bred among themselves. These things
seem to make it almost impossible for any
French Government to live even by the
kind of compromise between parties
achieved by the new Mayer Government,
in which Left Radicals, Moderate Con-
servatives and “Dissident De Gaullists”
try to sit together and stave off the
onslaughts of a Communist bloc.
The new Government comes to office
pledged to wide modification of the
European Defence Community Treaty
which was designed to integrate the forces
of France, West Germany, the Nether-
lands, Belgium and Luxemburg into a
Western defence army, a very large
section of the radical element in France
being fiercely determined not merely that
France shall be militarily superior to the
Germans in any scheme adopted, but that
the whole world shall be fully aware of
it, especially the Germans.
Actually the building-up of Western
defence has gone very well in the past two
years, and there are now something over
20 divisions available, at least on paper,
with a substantial air force and a naval
force capable of dealing with any possible
threat at sea. But the chances of
closer cohesion are not encouraging.
No French Government seems capable of
living long enough to give continuity of
policy for more than months at a time.
It seems to have been possible to form
a Government at aH at this juncture only
by the new Premier buying the support of
the De Gaullists, who are therefore in a
position to determine his defence policy.
They have insisted, as the price of their
tolerance, that the European Defence
Treaty be completely renegotiated.
The position is a continued warning to
the English-speaking countries to build
their own defences in the light of realisa-
tion that they are likely in war to find
the Continent, as in 1940-44, a liability
instead of an asset.
"Labor" Road Accident
While British “Labor’Meader Attlee
is in South Asia comparing views
upon “moderate Socialism” with Pandit
Nehru and other local heads of
the cult, the general council of
the British Trade Union Congress has
told the “Labor”-party executive there
that it refuses to support “for the time
being further nationalisation of industry.”
The occasion was a meeting to discuss
the party’s draft plan for the next elec-
tions.
The T.U.C, leaders, it is reported,
“questioned the wisdom of proposals for
State ownership of heavy engineering, air-
craft-building, shipbuilding, chemicals
and textile machinery,” That does not
leave much for the mooted reversion to
nationalisation of the steel industry. They
also refused to take a direct part in in-
vestigating such proposals or in drafting
the “new policy programme” submitted
with these as its core.
The Left-wing extremists under Mr.
Bevan, like the unrepentant socialisation-
merchants in the Australian “Labor”
party, had urged “more public control”
as means to “independence of dollar aid”
—not to say making dollar-aid stink in
the nostrils of the new Administration
in U.S.A. The secretary of the British
“Labor” executive, which recently wiped
Mr. Sevan’s eye on the ballot for posi-
tions, told the meeting that any proposed
nationalisation plans would be considered
only in the light of their value to the
nation’s economy and effect on its living
standards —that value obviously regarded
today as of minus quantity.
The Federal A.L.P. conference which
meets in Adelaide during the coming
week will come face-to-face with the
same question about how the socialisation
objective is to be fitted into the policy
for the next elections for dictation to Dr.
Evatt and the Parliamentary executive.
The South Australian A.L.P. has already
announced for the agenda a motion of
its own declaring straight out for social-
isation of everything in sight and “warn-
ing private enterprise” that this is what
a “Labor” election victory would mean.
Socalisation here, too, would write an
end to all dollar-aid and presumably,
after the decisions of the recent London
economic conference, of sterling-aid as
well. For the condition of all overseas
assistance by way of investment in Aus-
tralian industries is that they shall become
efficient in an economic pattern for the
increase of international trade and the
restoration of sterling as an exchange
medium.
The Evatt-Calwell-Monk-Dougherty
square-dance in Adelaide ought to be
full of entertainment.
Another Socialist Flop
The Queensland Government, teetering
on the edge of an election, has another
Socialistic failure to add to its long list
of bankrupt State enterprises.
Since the days when Ryan and Theo-
dore introduced their State butcheries and
stations, the State Fish Market and State
mines, every attempt to prove the failure
of private enterprise has crashed in
Queensland, sometimes in a heap of bank-
rupt ruins and sometimes blowing up with
a bad smell.
The latest failure was the Great Pig
Project, which was founded in 1948 with
resounding prophecy and loud boastings
to “boost Britain’s food resources.”
There were dull fellows who described
the plan (made by men who had never
raised a pig, to cultivate 250,000 acres on
Stalinist lines and turn off 500,000 porkers
annually) as fantastic ; but to the British
and Queensland Socialist Governments it
was just a normal fairy-tale planned with-
out thought of the vagaries of the Queens-
land weather or the idiosyncrasies of the
pig in the Queensland climate.
However, beginning in 1949 with about
29,000 acres —12i per cent, of the ultimate
area to go under sorghum—and with a
yield of 316,000 bushels, the corporation
last year produced 320,000 bushels off
62,800 acres.
The weather is blamed, but the cor-
poration, in which Queensland invested
£625,000 and the British Government
£1,875,000, and which had a loss of
£568,000 up till June, 1951, with “con-
siderable increases” since, is dying.
All the consolation the “agricultural
experts” of Queensland who fathered the
plan can find is that they did not lose
£36,000,000 as the British Government
did on its peanut schemes in Africa.
The failure of such Socialistic schemes
in Queensland is normal. But the Queens-
land “Labor” Government is hogging for
more money from the Australian tax-
payers to put into more vote-buying
Socialistic plans so as to make a certainty
of winning the next election—almost won
already by its Socialistic electoral system,
which is nearer to Stalin’s than any other
that Australians have seen at first-hand.
As Maoriland Sees It
From Auckland; How New Zealand is
going to master inflation by passing on
costs is something no one can figure out;
the new year starts off with dearer postage
(up a penny, to 3d., for ordinary letters),
phones (25 p.c. up) and telegrams. Other
increases to follow quickly will take a
wide enough sweep to cover all trade and
industry through the universal use of
electricity, road and rail transport, and
petrol, all of which will cost more.
Higher wages are behind all this. All
enterprise, public or private, and all
costs, domestic or industrial, will be given
another boost; Maoriland’s faith in
controls, already shaken, will slip further
as controls give way under pressure from
the rear. As a cure for inflation controls
are a washout; the most they can be
counted on to do is to have a delaying
effect, by postponing expansion in the
cost structure. N.Z. seemed to be hold-
ing the line on costs fairly well last year,
but some of the fundamental causes of
weakness weren’t tackled, so the money
Maorilanders have been collecting in
extra pay and larger incomes may be
taken from them before another year is
out as the rises go around.
Sooner or later N.Z. manufacturers,
producers and the rank-and-file must
realise that in the end there is only one
remedy, and that is by everyone giving
more in effort or skill for the pay he gets.
If output could be lifted 10 p.c. without
any addition to the wages-bill or to other
costs in industry it wouldn’t be long
before New Zealand turned the tables
on inflation. There’s nothing much
wrong with its healthy young economy
except that it has been allowed to run to
seed, but not to the same extent as Aus-
tralia’s. Softness has been spreading
where the spirit and toughness of the
pioneers laid a wonderful foundation for
the present generation to build on, and
in time this could lead to economic sick-
ness and disease, which Maoriland, like
Australia, will have to make a real effort
to avoid. Many workers are not pulling
their weight, and there’s too much lean-
ing on the farmers, who work seven days
a week to keep export trade going
ahead. The slackers and dodgers drift to
the cities to find easy jobs, with a nominal
40-hour week.
Since a little culling of staffs
was effected during 1952, factories
have been doing rather better, and
it hasn’t hurt anybody. This, how-
ever, has been only a first step
towards compensating for the drift that
had been going on year after year.
Management has an obligation, too, and
could do a lot more than it has attempted
yet to get the better of costs. For a
while it seemed that manufacturers and
other employers were really determined
to deal with costs in the only way that
would bring permanent benefit, and they
may still have the courage of their con-
victions if given reasonable encourage-
ment. At the moment competition is the
spur, and a strong one, but controls
complicate things.
Judging by past experience, controls, if
continued, are liable to kill competition,
o Continued on page 7)


or to take all the sting out of it. Already
it is becoming clear that controls re-
imposed in some important directions—
mainly over exchange and imports—have
been reviving ideas that extra outlay is
something to be passed on, on the vicious
cost-plus system, which solves nothing.
Costs are a sticky problem. Between
them and price-control plenty of people
in Maoriland are feeling a squeeze today,
with the efficient penalised to help the
inefficient, and incentive at a discount.
The margin for saving and thrift is too
narrow for a country in need of capital
for all kinds of purposes, and a new
apportioning of the proceeds of industry
is clearly wanted to give capital-invest-
ment a push along. As this would mean
allowing consumers less it would run
counter to the immediate interests of the
“Welfare State,” but would be the best
that could happen from a long-term point
of view.
POLITICAL POINTS
February 20 is the date now fixed for
the Premiers’ Conference at which priority
of public-works and the return of taxing-
powers to the States are to be discussed.
Despite electoral campaigns—two of the
Premiers will have just emerged from an
election and two others will probably
be in the middle of their campaigns—
all should come to the conference
in a proper spirit of co-operation.
But if John Cain’s attitude is any guide,
they won’t. He told reporters “I don’t
care when the conference is held —all I
am interested in is what I get when I
get there.”
• •
Queensland Premier Gair is still playing
secrets over the date of his State election.
His latest word is that he’ll reveal the
date “before or during the Labor-in-
Politics convention at Rockhampton.”
That begins on February 23, and Gair
is trying to get Commonwealth air-trans-
port to whisk him up from Canberra as
soon as the Premiers’ powwow is over.
• •
Victoria may be holding an inquiry
into the high cost of dying. Chief
Secretary Galvin has been commenting
on what he calls “extortionate charges for
burials” —he quoted one case where
£B2 10s. was charged for the funeral of
an old-age pensioner—and the head of
one of the big funeral-parlors has sug-
gested that he should look into the price
of cemetery lots. Galvin says he may
get the Prices Commissioner to examine
the whole set-up,
• •
Ex-Prime Minister Attlee, in Rangoon
for a conference of Asian Socialists, re-
grets he is unable to accept the Aus-
tralian Socialists’ invitation to open the
A.L.P. Triennial Conference in Adelaide
next Monday. Tactful fellow, Clem,
• •
Liberal candidate for Gordon in the
N. S. Wales Assembly will be chosen on
Friday. Gordon is a blue-ribbon Lib.
seat in the Federal division of Bradfield
and was previously held by H. B. Turner,
now M.H.R. for Bradfield. Turner had
to beat 32 contenders to win the Liberal
nomination for the Federal seat; there
are 13 in the field for his old State seat.
“Labor” isn’t putting up a man for
Gordon ; probably Room 32 is hoping an
Independent will try to do the job for it.
the reasoning ; a more comfortable plan
would be to put one man on each of
150 horses and let the remaining neddy
carry the other 5491.
e a
A fortnight ago Cahill was saying,
anent the Broken Hill storm-in-a-beer-
glass, that he “never made it a practice
to interfere with the police” and that,
anyway, “nothing had been brought to
his notice” in connection with Broken
Hill hotels. The second point was
remedied last week when a deputation of
clergymen from the Barrier paid him a
visit. After hearing their views Cahill
announced that he had directed Police
Commissioner Delaney “to tighten up
the administration of the drinking and
gambling laws at Broken Hill.” When
Treatt suggested that action a fortnight
earlier, Cahill barked something to
the effect (hat the Liberal leader was
afraid of losing his job, so had to make
a noise about something.
In addition to the tightening-up order
Cahill also announced that Maxwell, J.,
would be asked to have a look at liquor
conditions in Broken Hill after his return
from abroad. By “Labor” logic that
Peak Downs, the joint venture of the
British Overseas Food Corporation and
the Queensland Government, which was
going to raise bigger and better pigs faster
and more profitably than pigs had ever
been raised before, has finally given up
the ghost. Launched in 1948, the scheme
involved a capital investment of
million, of which the Queensland Gov-
ernment contributed a quarter and
8.0.F.C. threequarters. Officialdom
seems to put the blame for the failure
on the non co-operative attitude of the
weather, the sorghum crops and the pigs ;
outside opinion, mindful of East African
peanuts and West African poultry-farms,
feels that the fault lies rather in too-
grandiose planning with too little practical
experience to base it on.
Abandonment of the scheme means that
700,000 acres will now be subdivided and
leased for closer-settlement; the hope is
that smallholders working for themselves
will be able to show a better return than
the gigantic Socialist paddock has.
They’ll have to, if they want to live ;
Peak Downs lost £568,000 in its first
three years and an undisclosed amount
since. Perhaps some of Queensland’s
land-hungry ex-servicemen may benefit
from the cutting-up of Peak Downs;
they’ve had precious little so far from
Gair and Co.
• •
The cables and radio, reporting ther
decline in horse-strength of the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police, commented
that as the force now musters only 151
horses and has a total personnel of 5641
officers and men, at least 37 mounties
would have to be squeezed on to each
horse if they wanted to mount the entire
force at once. There’s a weakness in
"Boom, boom, boom! Blah, blah, blah!”
probably makes the whole matter sub
judice until the liquor report is pub-
lished —or at least until after the elections.
• •
Comment of a Broken Hill man in
Sydney: —■
We’ve got the same kind of freedom to drink
after six o’clock that Sydney has, only we exer-
cise it openly for the sake of the ordinary wage-
earner ; you call it night-clubbing and make it
exclusive for a few.
• •
In Australian politics it is not unusual
for an incoming Government to accuse
the outgoing crowd of having left it an
empty treasury. Some such suspicion
seems to have entered the mind of a
Republican member of the U.S. House
of Representatives, Carroll Mearns. He
has introduced a bill which will, if passed,
appoint a special Congressional com-
mittee to count the U.S. gold reserve
stored at Fort Knox, Kentucky; he
argues that it is necessary because the
Democrats are going out of office. The
official figure for Uncle Sam’s treasure-
chest at the moment is 12,483,415,360
dollars, so the committee will have a job
ahead of it.
• •
Inter-State shipping offices in Mel-
bourne put out the news that shipping
freights are expected to be lower this
year because (1) coastal rates at 700 per
cent, higher than in 1939 have affected
custom, (2) there were fewer industrial
disputes last year, and “the rate of cargo-
handling improved about 30 per cent.”
Because of improved port-service, overseas
freights from Britain were reduced three
months ago by 12 per cent. Dispatch of
goods by sea has reached such a costly
level that even N.S.W. Government rail-
ways have been inspired to make an effort
to attract inter-State custom.
• •
Overseas balances will benefit consider-
ably through the year’s wheat harvest
turning out muph better than the experts
anticipated, and thus making possible an
increase in the export quota. Australia’s
quota under the International Wheat
Agreement is 88.7 million bushels, but
light crops over the last two years forced
a reduction ; 60 million was the agreed
figure for the present season. This will
now be increased to 80 million bushels.
Total Australian crop is in the vicinity
of 160 million bushels, compared with
145 million last season,
• •
Some Latin-American countries have
been rather vocal in U.N. circles lately.
Perhaps that is what led N. Y. “Times”
to list some of the disturbances in Latin
America during 1952. Here’s the list:
February: Anti-Peronists charged with
conspiracy against Argentine Government.
March; General Batista seizes Govern-
ment of Cuba in military coup.
April: Rebels take over capital ot
Bolivia and install new president. Leaders
of Paraguayan opposition party arrested
and deported.
May: Ecuador’s Government quashes
revolutionary plot by navy chiefs.
August: Opposition party quits Argentine
legislature in protest move.
September: Colombia anti-Government
newspapers wrecked by mobs.
December: Venezuelan junta chief grabs
power in post-election move.
To this list two more items were added
last week:
January, 1953 : Admiral Pena claimed
that the Communists had formed an 18,000
guerrilla army in the jungles of south-central
Brazil and that the country was moving by
long strides towards a Marxist revolution.
January, 1953 : The Bolivian Govern-
ment announced that it had defeated a
military rebellion.
• •
Juvenile delinquency has reached
alarming proportions in Britain. To a
large extent a by-product of the war,
its mounting incidence is making people
wonder whether the “Welfare State” is
entirely blameless. Crime and delin-
quencies among youngsters have now
reached a figure of round about 60,000
cases a year. A Cambridge professor has
made the wry comment that this state of
affairs has been reached despite a spate of
books on child delinquency, which in the
years since the war have exceeded in
volume the entire literary output of
Greece during its Golden Age.
• •
One of the newer phrases in inter-
national dealings is “offshore procure-
ment,” which at first sight suggests white-
slavers carrying on their traffic just out-
side the three-mile limit. The reality is
not so sinister ; the term denotes the pur-
chase by one country of goods from an-
other by means of dollars supplied by
U.S.A. In 1951-52 offshore procurement
in Europe ran into over 700 million
dollars and made possible a large part
of the Nato arms programme. Latest
contract is for several hundred Centurion
tanks to be built in Britain for Denmark
and the Netherlands. The 90 million
dollars involved will help the British
dollar-pool, and the contract will bring
factory output nearer to capacity pro-
duction, thereby reducing costs.
• •
A three-cornered agreement between
the Brazilian Government, the Gloster
Aircraft Co, and the British Raw Cotton
Commission illustrates the complications
of international trade. Brazil has been
asking about 30 p.c. above world prices
for her cotton ; consequently the commis-
sion has not been buying it. Brazil wants
jets, but has no sterling funds with which
to pay for them. Under the agreement
the commission buys 15,000 tons of
cotton at the Brazilian price, paying the
money into a “blocked” sterling account.
The Gloster Co. sells 70 Meteor jets to
Brazil at a price higher than their list-
price and draws on the blocked account
at the list-price only, the balance going
to the Cotton Commission to,compensate
it for losses through
selling the cotton in
Britain at the world
price.
• •
“One man, one job,”
was once a slogan of
the “Labor” party, but
it is now no more than
a museum-piece, like “a
fair day’s work for a
fair day’s pay.” Latest
example of the changed
outlook is the nomina-
tion of Councillor R.
Triggs for the chair-
manship of the Sydney
County Council. Triggs
is secretary of the
Municipal Employees’
Union, to which most
employees of the
council belong. In that
capacity he receives a
considerable salary, and
as chairman of the
council he would be en- 1
titled to £2OOO a year
(increased from £lOOO
by vote of the “Labor”
majority last year).
Nomination virtually
means election, as
“Labor” has a majority
on the council. Triggs
will then be in this posi-
tion : As chairman of
the council he will be
responsible for all
orders issued to em-
ployees ; as secretary of
the union he is the paid
servant of the council
employees. Matthew
6.24 seems to cover the case.
• •
Wool exports for the five months to
the end of November were up on the
previous year both in quantity and
value;
Quantity. Value.
July-Nov., 1951 .. 258,072,0001 b. £92,801.000
July-Nov., 1952 .. 355,860,0001 b. £119,238,000
Britain and Japan both took more than
in 1951, America less.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Jasby”: .. . and then there was the
professional tennis-player who was
offered some very tempting inducements
to turn amateur, but resisted them and
decided to remain a pro.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Turnpike”; Most churches, in their
forms of service and hymnals, take heed
for those in peril on the sea. The time is
fast approaching, however, if it has not
already passed, when the perils of the sea
will be as nought compared with those
of the roads ; recent figures disclose an
t>tTs Black
“And what are YOU staring at ?”
appalling deathrojl from traffic accidents.
Thirty years ago an English coroner said
that the time had come for the Ancient
and Modern Hymnal to be revised by the
addition of a companion hymn to the
one which prays for Divine aid for sea-
farers. He suggested a hymn for assist-
ance for wayfarers on the roads. If it
was needed in 1922 how much more so
today!
“Curate’s Egg”; On a beach frequented
mostly by couples with toddlers, one
young matron very sensibly decided not
to allow the loss of a swimsuit to deprive
her two-year-old lass of a dip, so she
allowed the kiddie to disport herself in
the buff. The young nudist’s example was
soon followed by all the other youngsters,
hone of whose parents objected to the
manoeuvre. The result was quite a pleas-
ing Back-to-Nature tableau. Then there
arrived an abo. family, parents and
youngsters dressed in street-clothes. After
the abo. kids had enviously studied the
antics of the white youngsters a parental
consultation took place. As a result the
piccaninnies were divested of all their
clothes except their breeks, in which they
chastely entered the surf, thereby present-
ing an interesting sociological contrast to
their white and mother-naked counter-
parts, whose jettisoned swimsuits were in
colorful disarray on the sand.
“Becks”; At last someone has plucked
up courage to utter a word on the rights
of parents. I forget the unsung hero’s
name, but he managed to get a brief
mention in the cables before the vested
interests of the child-psychology experts
managed to have him suppressed. The
thousands of books on the upbringing of
children give not one thought to the
parents, who apparently exist for the sole
purpose of steering the child —the experts
always speak in terms of the child ; mul-
tiple-unit families don’t exist for them—
past all influences that threaten to thwart
him, give him fixations, complexes, frus-
trations and other things he apparently
hasn’t Buckley’s chance of avoiding, any-
way. Whacking him may give him a hate
complex, or, alternatively, turn him into
a bully or a sadist; scolding him may sear
his tender little soul; locking him up in
his room may set in train a course of
events that will end in the murder of his
own (or somebody else’s) grandmother.
Forcing him to eat food he has howled
for and then pushed aside may lead to his
becoming an enemy of society. None of
the books gives two hoots about the fixa-
tions, complexes and frustrations that
accrue to the parent while pandering to
the whims of the little tyrants. Up,
parents! This has gone on long enough.
I’m starting a society which will use
books on child-psychology for the sole
purpose of lambasting the seats of
juvenile tyrants. If it doesn’t do anything
else it should at least make ’em hate the
books.
❖ *** ***
“Pip Tok”: Scotland’s mandate over
the New Year celebrations was respon-
sible for at least one language-test during
the Hitler disturbance. A Scots lass living
in Perth (W.A.) wished to send greetings
to her sister in Perth (Scotland), so she
handed in a message at the local cable
office containing the words “A Guid Hog-
manay.” The cable-wallah looked at it,
frowned, and declared, “I can’t send this.
It’s in code.” “Have a dekko at this,”
he added, showing the form to a colleague.
“Code be hanged,” the colleague replied.
“It’s Scotch for a Happy New Year.
Didn’t you know that, you great omad-
haun?” “And what’s an omadhaun?”
the first chap demanded, with more than
the New Year average of heat. “Omad-
haun?” his mate explained. “That’s Irish
for drongo.” And that was the soft
answer which turned wrath to fury.
❖ +*♦ ***
“Bogaduck”; Mail-order recipes for
making a fortune aren’t as common as
they used to be, but recently I saw a full-
page advertisement, offering no fewer
than 63 books of “Valuable secret know-
ledge” at prices from 2s. to £l. They
promise to teach hypnotism (“Sway
people’s 'minds, overcome sales-resist-
ance”), how to acquire Dominating Eyes
“The greens aren't so hot, are they ?”
(“Demand all that your heart desires”),
and how to make money playing poker
or backing horses and dogs. There are
two separate books on the old, familiar
“Beautiful Bust,” and an offer to banish
“torturous” insomnia. Skill with cards
is offered for “Magical demonstrations
only,” and another book claims to teach
how to “Induce others to gladly do your
bidding.” The highlight is the “Learn to
swim well” course, which should cause a
world-wide sensation, as “No water is
necessary to learn!”
❖ ❖ ❖
#v
“Ware’ : Sounds more like one of
those party games than a genuine title,
but m> bookseller is not one for jokes in
his catalogues. Latest list sent me in-
cludes: The New Science of Surgery,
by Frank G. Slaughter.
❖ * ❖
“Ceg”: Cole’s Funny Picture Book (B.
3/12/ ’52) prompts one {o inquire how
many of the present generation of
domestic houseflies owe their existence to
the Book-Arcade founder. E. W. Cole
was a kindly, humane man, and if the
aphorisms with which he sprinkled his
books and premises had been more gener-
ally heeded, the world would be a happier
place. However, so far as carriers of
disease-germs were concerned, his humane
feelings outran any ideas he may have
had about precautions against infection.
Today, when we are constantly being
urged to “Swat that fly,” and Health
Department slogans and posters greet us
at every turn, it is curious to read E. W.
Cole’s exhortation to the young never
to kill, even a fly. I seem to recall that
the Funny Picture Book, devoted a page
of verse, with a large illustration of the
insect concerned, emphasising the wicked-
ness of fly-killing. Nowadays, when I
go prowling round the house armed with
a large spray of some deadly mixture I
am reminded of the old chap’s verse
and the subsequently unheeded impression
it must have made on my mind.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Brick E.”: A week or two before
Christmas the family doctor and I had a
mutual deploring-session on the departure
of the old Christmas spirit. “Remember
when travellers for builders’ hardware
used to bring the boss a box of cigars
and the foreman a rule each for Christ-
mas-boxes?” he grinned. “Yair,” I
sighed nostalgically, and returned the
lament: “Back in the days when grateful
patients sent you a couple of bottles of
appreciation, eh?” We went our respec-
tive ways with a defeatist: “Those days
will never come again.” Yesterday Doc,
hailed me from his car. “I was holler-
ing before I was hit,” he beamed. “Got
the best ham you could wish for sent to
me as a Christmas-box.” “Did you?
Good,” I congratulated. “At least some-
body is appreciative of your efforts,
then.” The doctor’s smile grew even
wider. “Yes, but I’m wondering what
efforts of mine he appreciates,” he
chuckled. “Soanso sent the ham.”
Soanso has recently recovered from a
severe illness —but he is also our local
undertaker,
❖ ❖ ❖
“X.S.”: When anyone hints to me that
police are bribed to shut their eyes
at liquor-law infringements I feel they
just don’t know their way around.
Bribery is quite unnecessary. Like other
people, policemen like to be liked ; like
other people, most of them like their pots.
Some don’t like the licensing laws any
more than the average citizen and, like
him, don’t believe that liquor sup-
pression is a great popular movement.
Consequently, when they know the mob
is in the back parlor they come in by
the front door and the mob walks out
by the back door, and, naturally, when
the crowd is in the front bar they come
in through the back door—and not too
quietly, either. To suggest that bribery is
necessary to produce this kind of behavior
is to reveal a complete ignorance of
human nature.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
1 “Emjai”': “Sim” May was the big man
in a hefty eight-oar crew well back in
the pre-War I era. He had gorilla-like
arms and tremendous drive in his hairy
legs, but it was his prehensile feet which
got him his name. After strenuous doings
on the river on the Saturday we would let
down a bit on the Sunday and take the
eight, with refreshments, liquid and other,
aboard; for a quiet paddle up the Yarra
to Studley Park. There we would 101 l
about in a circle, with the victuals in the
centre. Sim did the waiting. He would
shoot out a long leg and grab a sandwich
or meat-pie with his toes and, swivelling
on his tail, offer it around the circle. But
he needed both feet to manipulate the
bottles. The limit was when he picked
his teeth with his toenail. Then someone
threw him the bag of nuts, and he was
formally ducked and christened “The
Simian.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sackfair”: The young couple in front
of me in the bus were arguing about
feminine hair-styles. He took the correct
masculine view that a girl who goes in
for the ultra-modern cuts invariably
makes a fright of herself. The lass didn’t
defend them unconditionally, but obvi-
ously suffered from the typical feminine
inhibition that “the Fashion” can’t be
wrong. He had given her a few leads
about “old girls who dye their hair blue,”
“widgie-cuts,” etc., then played his ace:
“Look at the horse’s-tail style—could
anything look stupider?” The girl didn’t
agree. “Not on all girls. The horse-
tail hair-do suits a girl with the right type
of face.” “Yair,” retorted the young
chap. “If she has a face like a horse’s
head! ” “Oh, no ; that’s where you’re
wrong,” the damsel corrected him seri-
ously. “It’s quite the reverse.” I’m
afraid my chuckle was rather rude.
BREAKING-STRAINS
“Several State Premiers have shown reluctance
to attend a Premiers’ Conference on pub'lic-works
priorities and return of income-taxing to the
States, N. S. Wales Premier Cahill finding
the situation as awkward as whether or not to
enforce N. S. Wales liquor laws in Broken Hill.”
If Premiers had had any sense
They might have held their conference
At Broken Hill,
For in that timeless atmosphere
Of open bets and endless beer
The thought of querying the queer
Seems queerer still.
The practice of diplomacy.
Sir Robert Garran said to me
Some time ago,
Is making phrases mean in ink
What all contracting parties think
They mean- —he said it with a wink :
He ought to know.
Such methods merit an extension
Into a futurist dimension
Where each word spoken,
Promised in writing, sworn, or said,
Must always be interpreted
As at the Hill the law is read —
i.e.. Broken. ■
In Broken Hill the broken word
Could break a second time, or third;
The sophist sledges
That bash our statute-books apart
Ameliorate the statesman’s art —
He need not have a broken heart
For broken pledges.
Though many and many a time we’re told
That “Speech is silver, silence gold,’’
Events have shown us
That what, in us, might seem improper
And bring us down a nasty cropper
Is not, when statesmen shout “Mug
copper !”—
For lead’s a bonus.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


CALENDAR
Work, work, it’s never done,
It always starts afresh on Mon.
Its beastly colors, black and blue,
Hang well over into Tue.
And we still think that we are fed
Up when we arrive at Wed.
A grain of hope begins to ger-
Minate at last with dawn of Thur.
’Twould be unfortunate to die
Or anything like that on Fri.
Still more unfortunate than that
Is something of the kind on Sat.
With cleek or racquet, rod or gun,
Drinks and jollity and fun,
What a lovely day is Sun.!
N.z. Arnold Wall.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“R.L.W.”: In war-time Plymouth I
used to patronise a little pub, popular,
with most Allied Naval ratings. I was
enjoying a quiet drink one evening when
the American Negro shore-patrol came
in, led by a tall, muscular darky. He
stood in the doorway for a moment,
brandishing a baton, then swaggered up
behind another colored boy seated at a
table. Without any preliminaries he
cracked this chap on the head with the
baton. This appeared most irregular, but
when a few minutes later I saw them
laughing and drinking together I couldn’t
resist asking the S.P. what it was all
about. He grinned and raised his gob
cap, exhibiting a large lump on his shaven
head. “He’s my buddy and was on S.P.
last night!” he exclaimed, and both
roared with laughter.
*> ❖ *t*
“Macquarie”: Revival of interest in the
convict days prompts me to remark on
the large number of unfortunates who
were transported because hunger forced
them to steal a loaf of bread. I’ll admit
that freshly-baked bread does smell pretty
good and could be a sore temptation to
a hungry man, but when I’m peckish my
drooling dreams run to thick steaks and
huge joints, and in those days butchers
had no glass in their windows! Still, it
couldn’t have happened or surely some
truthful writer would have recorded a
case of a man who stole a pound of
snags! And that leaves me with another
problem: How did the world’s heaviest
meat-eaters evolve from forebears who,
to a man, sold their souls for bread?
* ❖ ❖
“Euroclydon”: Mum poked her nose
into Hobart’s auction mart one day during
the war. “There’s some beautiful old
“ Haven't you won the key-money yet?”
Sheraton in for the sale on Friday,” she
told me. “A china-cabinet and' some
little chairs ; but there’s also an escritoire
desk—rosewood with satinwood inlay—
the loveliest thing, with dinky little dove-
tailed drawers. We never see the like
nowadays ” “What will it bring?” I
wondered. “Oh, at least seventy-five
pounds perhaps more, even though there’s
a war on ” Mum replied. “How did the
sale (to?” I asked on Friday night.
“Things went for a song,” Mum
answered “Certainly the war news is
pretty grim but for that Sheraton stuff
the bidding' started at five pounds. The
chairs and the china-cabinet went for a
fair price—but that writing-desk!” she
said with her heart in her eyes. “Do you
know, some old hen got that beautiful
thing for ten guineas!” When I came
home next day the carrier had just
departed and Mum was putting a polish
on something that gleamed like wine-red
velvet. “How come?” I asked in amaze-
ment. “I thought you said that some
old hen got that for ten guineas!” “Ah,
yes,” Mum said gently as she polished
the exquisite handles. “But I didn’t tell
you which old hen.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“F.S.”: How geniuses are made. A
beautiful young girl took up painting.
Within a month she had finished five
pictures and had one accepted for a
modernist exhibition. At the opening
people remarked on her beauty, and when
they heard she was the creator of one of
the paintings they crowded round it and
said; “What a beautiful picture!” A
critic who was about to leave the show
approached the group clustered around
the picture and asked who had painted
it. “That girl over there,” said one of
the spectators. “What a beautiful girl,”
murmured the critic. Next day his report
on the show included the comment “Un-
doubtedly the masterpiece of the exhibi-
tion is The Pumpkin Eater’s Funeral,’
by Miss X, one of the most promising
of our younger painters.”
❖ ♦♦♦ ***
“K.”: The mayor of Capri has offered
the hospitality of his “island of bliss” as
a meeting-place for Eisenhower and Stalin
to settle the cold war. Far from indulg-
ing in any mere caprice, the mayor had
observed in Capri’s evening sky a par-
ticular capricornid in a meteor-shower
from Capricorn, and from this sign be-
came captivated by the belief that a
caprification, or waspish fertilisation, of
the sterile condition of international
politics could induce the fig to produce
thistles, or vice versa,. He forthwith
flung himself into a.' capriole, or joyful
buckjump, as practised by the local wild
goats, and after receiving hearty applause
for the idea from Mr. Farouk, discovered
sitting, caparisoned in nothing, in Capri’s
low-tide as grotesque as a bunch of
caprella, the two of them decked them-
selves in the native wild caprifoil and
off went the cabled invites east and west.
These capers ended with replies (1) from
Stalin that he was allergic to capillary
or any other attraction, and (2) from
Eisenhower reading; “You can’t make
a goat out of me.”
♦> *X* ❖
“Findy”; While Malcolm Ellis has
been accusing convict Tucker of steal-
ing ex-convict Greenway’s novel Ralph
Rashleigh and passing it off as his own
and Colin Roderick has been accusing
Malcolm Ellis of attempting to appropri-
ate convict Tucker’s nowelßalph Rashleigh
on behalf of ex-convict Greenway, another
convict has been almost successful in
putting a literary theft over an American
publishing house. When Little, Brown
and Co., of Boston, received the MS. of
a novel, Position Unknown, which seemed
to have considerable merit, they accepted
it in good faith as being the work of a
24-year-old convict, Robert Preyer, serv-
ing a long sentence for burglary. The
lad with the apt name was given 600
dollars as advance royalties, and the book
was printed. It was about to be put on
the market when a reviewer who had been
“Could you strike a pose something like that ?”
given advance proofs recognised it as a
word-for-word copy of Island in the Sky,
published eight years ago. There’s prob-
ably a moral in this somewhere, but I
leave Mr. Ellis and Mr. Roderick to find
it. To me the most interesting point is
that it proves that reviewers are of some
use, after all,
* ❖ *
“F.G.S.”: In the 1914-18 show a
middle-aged infantryman, before leaving
Australia in early 1916, conceived an idea
for simplifying the bridging of streams.
His idea was a number of large pipes
20ft. or so long and varying diameters up
to perhaps 10ft. or so and also smaller-
diameter ones. These could be trans-
ported inside one another according to
size and made of thin sheet-iron or steel.
The method was to roll the large-diameter
ones into the stream parallel to the banks.
If sufficiently large the top would be at
or about water-level; if not, a smaller one
could be rolled on top. Then a set of
stringers, beams and decking could be put
across. The pipes would let the waters of
the canals* and rivers run through unim-
peded, and when shelled, bombed or
holed couldn’t sink. Later experience in
France showed there was a lot in the
idea. However, some bureaucrat thought
not, and to this day the Digger’s letter
has not even been acknowledged.
❖ ❖ ❖
Studio story. “I’m doing a
nude.” “Oh, well, then, I suppose I can’t
come in.” “Come in, come in.” A pause.
“What on earth is that cow doing in your
studio?” “I’m doing a pastoral.” “But
where’s the nude?” “The cow, of
course! ”
* ❖ ❖
“Phil Anthus”: A glance at Captain
Cook’s records or at Banfield’s Con-
fessions of a Beachcomber would have
given “H.A.L.” (B. 17/12/’52) all the
information needed on the origin of the
name of Dunk Island. The isle was
named by Cook, in 1770, in honor of his
patron, George Montagu Dunk, first Earl
of Sandwich and first Earl of Halifax;
hence also the neighboring Halifax Bay
and Cape Sandwich on Hinchinbrook
Island. It is rather curious that although
Cook recognised the insularity of Dunk
he did not do so in the case of the larger
island. However, he kept his regional
christening activities in the family, for he
called a high point Mount Hinchinbrook
(after G. M. Dunk’s manorial home);
later the name was applied to the whole
island. Incidentally, Banfield was long
doubtful whether to stick to Cook’s name
for his tropic isle or to return to the
abos’ title, Coonanglebah. “The Beach-
comber” had a high regard for Cook, but
I suspect that it was the single-syllable
crispness of Dunk that swayed him in its
favor.
❖ ♦>
“Nakh”: Touching the search by a
Melbourne journalist for the Italian
artilleryman who shot his leg off at
Tobruk, there was another sort of post-
war meeting in a German Stalag when a
Melbourne writer with a job on Unesco
preferred a bottle of cognac to two Aus-
tralian p.-0.-w. One looked at him hard.
“I know your face,” he said. “Weren’t
you at Melbourne Uni.?” “Yes,” said
the Unescan. “And weren’t you thrown
in the lake?” asked the other. “I was.
“Well,” said the prisoner, “I was one of
the chaps who threw you in.”
* ❖
Miles Franklin’s article on
whodunit stories (B. 17/12/’52) recalls
that it was an Australian writer who
wrote the first detective story written by
a woman. For many years early Mel-
bourne magazines carried stories written
by “W.W.” or “Waif Wander.” In 1871
The Detective's Album, Tales of the Aus-
tralian Police, reprinted from the “Aus-
tralian Journal” appeared. Author was
W.W. It has been established that W.W.
was Mrs. Fortune, but exhaustive in-
quiries have so far failed to uncover any
biographical particulars of the lady.
*
“Eve”: Don’t tell me it was just a
coincidence! On the way to King’s Cross
the other morning I ran slap-bang into a
fire-engine, its crew seemingly in search of
a fire. And, leaning from a first-floor
window, almost directly over their heads
was a woman scraping a piece of break-
fast toast. I wonder which neighbor gave
the alarm!
*t* ❖ ❖
“J.0.K.D,”: A short time ago a
Bulletin writer attributed the coining of
the nickname “Desert Rat” to Goebbels.
This must surely be incorrect. The
Jerboa, or desert rat, was chosen as the
div. sign of Britain’s 7 Armored Div.
before hostilities broke out in the desert;
the little doctor could hardly have been
much interested in the area at that time.
In the early days when the armor existed
mainly on paper the sign was used mostly
by, and the name particularly referred to,
Support Group 7 Armored. This con-
sisted of 3rd and 4th R.H.A., 11th
Hussars, Ist K.R.R.C., and 2nd R. 8., and
the men of these units were certainly
referring to themselves as “Desert Rats ’
as early as Sept., ’4O. In 1941 the Press
extended the name to cover the whole of
Bth Army, and later every soldier return-
ing to England from the M.E. adopted the
title as a matter of right, much to the
annoyance of the originals.
*l* ♦> ❖
“S.”: A London “Times” review of
J. E. Macdonnell’s Valiant Occasions:
Mr. Macdonnell’s book consists of sketches
of various episodes of the war at sea, chiefly
reprinted from the Sydney Bulletin. Most of
them, of course, were those in which ships of
the Royal Australian Navy had a part; and
although the author does not relate them as
personal experiences it may be suspected that
he had a share in some of them at least.
Whether or not he was himself present, those
who fought in them were his intimate friends;
and he has also made much use of official
records. Moreover, he displays a gift for vivid
narrative that might have made him an out-
standing war-correspondent if he had not hap-
pened to be a sea officer. He writes for the
landsman, and is able to describe the complex
fighting equipment of a man-of-war in non-
technical language so that to the lay reader its
mysteries seem simple enough, and do not inter-
rupt, nor detract from, the flow of the ex-
citing stories he has to tell. Those stones
are not solely of the Royal Australian Navy;
for that service, proud of its separate identity
as it is, has always been intimately intertwined,
as it were, with the Royal Navy, and is fully
aware of the essential unity of world-wide sea
operations. Mr. Macdonnell seems to have made
it his mission to pass on that knowledge to his
own countrymen, as well as to expound to them
the exploits of their own sea forces.


IF YOU LIKE WINE
■ V
OLD AND GOOD
dsf
WINE
Established 1847
PERSONAL ITEMS
Although he is probably Australia’s
most successful playwright, and in the past
15 years has written 16 plays, one of
which, “Seagulls Over Sorrento,” is box-
office stuff in his home country and has
been running three years in London,
Hugh Hastings doesn’t appear in Who’s
Who, either under his real name, William-
son, or the pseudonym he took on when
he found there was a well-known stage
identity in the Big Smoke of the same
name. Hastings is now in Australia
to convince the Firm of the importance
of staging “Touch of the Sun,” his latest,
with himself in the star role. Actor,
author, pianist, film-extra and “Yes-man”
that is, third director —he left Sydney
to join a film company, and, after five
years’ service in the R.N., ended up as
one of London’s theatrical bestsellers.
Two years ago W. Von Ploennies, a
Brisbane lawyer, decided that a knowledge
of gems would help him in cases con-
cerned with the value of precious baubles.
Which resulted, the other day, in his be-
coming the first Brisbane barrister to
attain a Fellowship of the Gemmological
Association of Australia. Legally he’s
associate to the Chief Justice.
Heavy eyebrows and closely-clipped
military moustache, with a good-sized
nose separating ’em, are the main identi-
fication-marks of Major-General S. W.
Kirby, British war historian, now in Aus-
tralia to confer with opposite-numbers in
Canberra on compiling the history of the
war against Japan. The first of the five
volumes is nearly finished, and it will take
close on 10 years to complete the job, at
the rate of two and a half years for each
volume. Kirby explains that the spade-
work to be done, before the actual writ-
ing can be started, includes examination
of sheaves of documents, interviews with
a multitude of individuals, much con-
sultation with Australian, American,
Dutch and Canadian historians, as well
as a terrific amount of cross-checking to
ensure accuracy. An M.C. and Bar
winner of War I, the historian spent most
of War II in India, and after it was
Deputy Chief of Staff on the Control
Commission for Germany.
A puzzled balladist:
With reason, Will Lawson is a bit puzzled
over sundry ratings of his literary status and
nationality. When “John O’Brien” died the
other day one newspaper farewelled “J.0’8.”
as “the last of the balladists.” Where does Will
come in? Letters written to him over 50 years
back showed that Archibald, for one, would
have insisted on Will being included in the
category, and James Edmond wrote to the
same effect. James Tyrrell, in his lately-pub-
lished Old Books, Old Friends, Old Sydney,
speaks of Will as “that fine balladist,” and
recently the president of the A.J.A., reading
Will Lawson ballads to an audience, spoke of
Will as the best balladist in Australia. Yet
(Will has himself stated), “Some years ago H. M.
Green, when librarian at the [Sydney] Univer-
sity, held an exhibition of Australian books from
which he banned all my verse, because it was
written in New Zealand. He admitted my
novels. When I protested, suggesting that if I
had written in China he would have accepted
it as Australian, he said it was a problem he
could not solve.” If Will is excluded from
consideration as an Australian balladist be-
cause he’s ranked as a New Zealander, the
excluders are a bit astray. He was born at
Gateshead, in Durham (Eng.), across the river
from Newcastle-on-Tyne. Taken to N.Z. as a
four-year-old, he was there only a couple of
years before there was a move to Brisbane,
where he spent the next 10 years and gathered
education. Then back to N.Z.; and still living
there when he began writing for The Bulletin.
Just for the record: Will Lawson has written
and published novels, verse, short stories and
historical books —up to now, 26 vols. in all.
Apart from Hugh McCrae’s 0.8. E.,
the only New Year honor on anything
like that side was the M.B.E. to William
Admans, of Melbourne. Sole survivor
of the original Federal Hansard staff,
he reported the debates on May 9, 1901,
the first day of the first Commonwealth
Parliament.
One of the last links with “Father of
Federation” David Syme was broken
when F. L. Mauger retired the other day
from the “Age,” after half a century of
service with that paper. He joined it
as a boy typist when Herbert Syme was
managing-director, and covered every job
from politics to cricket. Over the- last
five years he was editor of the Saturday
supplement. His father, Samuel Mauger,
was P.M.G. in the second Deakin Admin-
istration.
An 0.8. E. went to J. R. Darling,
headmaster of Geelong Grammar, for
services to Australian education. English-
man and Oxonian, he first came to Aus-
tralia in 1929 in charge of a tour of Eng-
lish public-school boys, and returned next
year to fill his present post. The
immortal Dr. Squeers asked his boys to
spell “winder,” and then told them to go
out and clean them. Darling, too, has
put the emphasis on practical experience,
setting his boys up in well-equipped
carpentry-shops, machinery-sheds and the
like. When they wanted a new class-
room he told them to go ahead and build
it. In the early days of the housing short-
age squads of his pupils did a good job
round, Geelong in their holidays helping
War II Diggers who were in a quandary
about houses.
Into his 65 years Frank Tennyson
Perry has crammed enough activity to
make him as busy a man as Adelaide
possesses. Holder of the reins of the
Perry Engineering Co., in War II he was
No. 1 man in munitions-control in S.
Australia, has been State president of
the Chamber of Manufactures, vice-
president of the Federal body, president
of the S.A. Metal Industries’ Association
and the Iron Trade Employers’ Associa-
tion, and vice-president of the S.A. Em-
ployers’ Federation. And he found
time to sit in the Assembly for five years,
member for East Torrens. Now he’s
been appointed chairman of the com-
mittee, recently formed by the Defence
Production Ministry, which is to plan
munitions production against the need
for sudden expansion. The choice could
hardly have been bettered. •
A Coventry impression of PHILIP
McBRIDE, Federal member for Wake-
field (S.A.), Minister for Defence, grazier
and new knight.
Harry Cortis-Jones, late of Newington
College (B. 7/1/’53), hastens to disclaim
having coached the school’s great 1900
fifteen. That honor, he states, belongs
to C, A. Buchanan. Actually, to the
school’s four teams “Fizz” added two
more, several boys from one of which
finally made the 1900 battlers.
“F.S.”: Now 87, Louis Lavater, doyen
of Australian composers, can look so far
back that he can remember when a con-
temporary of his, John Longstaff, decided
to become an artist. He also remembers
the first State orchestra in Australia.
Formed in Melbourne, it performed at
the Exhibition; one of its first pro-
grammes, in 1889, contained Lavater’s
first composition. It was kept going for
a few months on Government subsidy,
then allowed to disband, and it was not
till 60 years later that an attempt was
made to revive it. Up till recently
Lavater was still fighting Canberra for the
rights of the composer.
Talking about music, Fred H. Allan
has just completed 60 years with the
premier publishing firm in Melbourne,
Allan’si Now managing-director, he was
a copy boy when the Collins-street shop
was run by his father, in association with
the late Charles Tait.
Exit a trio from C.5.1.R.0.:
Ending their long and honored association
with the organisation’s Advisory Council, Sir
Harry Brown, Sir Kerr Grant and William
Kelly. One of the first members of the Radio
Research Board (formed in 1927), Brown has
rendered equally helpful service to B.G.E. (chair-
man) and the P.M.G. (D.-G. of Posts and Tele-
graphs for 17 years). Born in England, he came
to Australia in 1923, backed by 25 years’ experi-
ence with the British post-office. In War 11
Commonwealth Co-ordinator-General of Works
—a big title for a big job —he was also help-
fully in at the start of civil aviation in Aus-
tralia.
Professor of Physics at Adelaide University
for many years, Grant was particularly inter-
ested in C.5.1.R.0.’s researching in the physical
sciences. Early in the late scrap he -was on the
committee formed to look into the manufacture
in Australia of optical instruments; inventing,
with D. B. Steele, the most sensitive method of
weighing yet devised. It will weigh one-millionth
of a milligram. Towards the end of the war,
in charge of the Adelaide office of the Army
Inventions Directorate, he tested some 500 in-
ventions—and found five of the bright ideas
worth troubling about. While he was at the
university Grant’s students gave him an annual
send-off with firecrackers, songs and the wail
of bag-pipes —to which the professor annually
replied with smiles and Kipling’s “If.”
Kelly owns an Australia-wide reputation as a
keen experimental farmer, and has been ex-
hibiting and judging sheep since 1910. His
knowledge of the economic aspects of agri-
culture has been of great value in forming
C.5.1.R.0.’s research policy. Old Digger, in
the second war he had a couple of years in
England, advising on the two-million fresh acres
of English earth put under the plough as part of
the economic war against Hitler, and acting as
representative of the Australian Wool Board.
Visiting his folk in Dunedin (N.Z.),
Dr. J. M. Austin, professor of Synoptic
Meteorology at the world-known Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology. A pro-
duct of Otago University, Austin gradu-
ated at 20; joined the meteorological
station at Apia, and after two years went
to the institute where he how professes.
He was one of the dozen or so top-flight
meteorologists who advised Eisenhower
on met. conditions for the Normandy
sailings.
Although Captain Einar Jacobsen,
skipper of the aptly-named Southern
Archer, has spent nine months of each
of the last 17 years in Antarctic waters, he
visited Melbourne for the first time when
his whaler, after tangling with a local
Moby Dick, came in for repairs to her
screw. A blond Norseman, Jacobsen is
both captain and gunner of his whaler.
When he has manoeuvred his vessel
within range of a few hundred tons of
potential blubber he leaves the bridge
and rushes to the gunsights to launch the
harpoon. At 30 he’s a veteran of southern
whale-catching.
“Uramao”: Birmingham (Eng.) Uni-
versity, with its 2000 students, gets for new
vice-chancellor Dr. Robert S. Aitken,
vice-chancellor of the Otago University,
Dunedin (N.Z.). Enzed Rhodes Scholar
for 1924, Aitken was polished at Otago,
and at Balliol added his philosophy
doctorate to his M.B. and Ch.B. Before
returning to his Alma Mater he was
Regius Professor of Medicine at Aberdeen
University. Birmingham University is
not an ancient institution, being founded
in 1900, but it houses the Barber Insti-
tute of Fine Arts, an extensive chemistry
department and a fine medical school.
There seems to be a family touch about
the chief civil engineer’s post in the
N.S.W. Railways. Keith Fraser’s father
held the job, as did Keith. Norman
Vegan’s father started in 1890, and ended
up in the engineer’s chair; as did, the
other day, Vogan himself. Built like an
oar (with one of which instruments he
gained a blue at Sydney University), his
somewhat lugubrious face lightened by a
puckish grin, Vogan joined the railways
in 1924, a draughtsman like his father.
The measure of his competence is indi-
cated by the fact that within two years he
was assistant-engineer on the big job of
electrifying and widening to six tracks
the line between Sydney and Homebush.
NEW RAILWAYS ENGINEER
Thereafter he alternated between main-
tenance and construction, in the latter
field his best-remembered bit of work
being the duplicating, in War 11, of the
track between Junee and Cootamundra.
Here, so steep was the grade on Baldy
Tom that he sent his line in a spiral
round the peak, to cross over the track
again where it entered a tunnel. This
had been done only once before in Aus-
tralia—on the Brisbane line near the
Queensland border. Vogan feels not a
little proud of the speed with which this
important stretch was completed—as he
does of his old school, Shore. Fraser,
C. A. Pennefather (whom Vogan relieves)
and Vogan himself all went to Shore.
Retiring after 12 years as one of the
two commissionaires at the Melbourne
Shrine of Remembrance, Jim Tierney,
known to visiting thousands. A physical-
training instructor in the R.N. and the
R.A.N. for 25 years, the same for 14
years at Scotch College and a teacher
of physical jerks to Melbourne Legacy,
he still starts his day with the daily dozen.
Into the Silence:
In England, Sylvia Mary Byron, widow of
Colonel Wilfred Byron, a War I soldier who
was secretary to his brother-ijn-law, former
Westralian Governor Sir William Campion.
Her elder son, Rupert, who became 11th Baron
Byron, through his descent from the poet, is
now farming near Donnybrook (W.A.). The
younger son, Maurice, now a Catholic priest
in the U.K., was awarded the George Cross
for gallantry in one of the London blitzes.
In Perth, at 75, Michael Francis Troy, who
graduated, like many of the early Labor poli-
ticians in Westralia, in mining trade-unionism.
He served as union advocate in the Arbitration
Court for some years; but will be remembered
as possibly the best Minister for Lands in West-
ralian history. War II broke out during his
term as Agent-General. Sticking to his post
in London through the blitz, he did a continuous
job as roof fire-spotter, although nearing the 70
mark. Hot-tempered and impulsive, Troy was
respected by political friends and foes alike for
his scrupulous official and personal honesty.
At Hutt, Wellington (N.Z.), at 62, Whata Te
Puaha Green, four times world’s champion
axeman. He won 14 championships in his 45
years of axe-wielding. For a time he lived in
Australia.
In Sydney, Major George Harrison, who as
an A.I.F. engineer-officer served with Allenby
in Palestine. Till his retirement a few months
back he was a surveyor on the staff of the Water
and Sewerage Board. Known in soldier circles,
from his likeness to Lionel Lindsay’s old Cobra
boot-polish ad. character, as “Chunda Loo.”


= V ' (2£6O(,AR. S3AV£9? wgfte 6/veM
'TMg' OPR2RTUN IT/ OF MeFONGr '
", //
■A -rti&H /vieflcAu Aorwoßiiy
~ Pozrm i oTf&S‘S at (JJaula -
. - //
t\ fefiSOM v6(?y Cu>S£ VD thc M"
I .
ds
V\ A v|/
r{ 'fPSASoP./ Sft?K£SMAN
. . . - //
t4m A.<J .C. Office AU
vV /i
t\ übao/m<j 7 or.
fie udooup fßoe> Aßuy fih\o thß y auu
6oßt A -STRiKIMO- R£SeM&LAMC£ TO
STAFF COZBSSPOHP£MT.
DEEPER MYSTERIES OF THE DAILY PRESS


ABORIGINALITIES
“Blanc”: Don’t know who may now
claim to own the punt at Wilcannia
(N.S.W.), or if it is still the same punt,
but 40 years ago my father always called
it his. He built it at Echuca, near his
home town, Deniliquin, and had it towed
down the Murray and up the Darling,
When jobs were being discussed he
always said, “They’ve got one of my
punts up at Wilcannia.” I am sure the
Falkiners felt they owned every building
on Tuppal, but their 72-stand shearing-
shed was always “One of mine” to my
dad. He likewise “owned” Landale’s
Quiamong homestead. Swan Hill wharf,
a Mildura wharf, three other woolsheds
and homesteads, over 40 bridges, five
pubs, six halls and several shops, Denny’s
mayor and auctioneer, John Kelly, once
advertised a home for sale as “One of
W.’s,” everyone knowing that it meant
that my father had built it. That even-
ing, as he unsaddled his nag, he called
to the assembled family, “No more rent!
I’ve bought one of my own houses.”
* * * *
“Warrabulla”: Into the controversy
regarding a man running a country pro-
perty “on his own,” let me introduce his
most powerful ally—the missus. On
the small selections outback you’ll find
her cooking, washing and sewing for her
husband, herself, and three or four —or
more —offspring. She’ll bake bread twice
a week at least, as well as cakes and
brownies. When shearing comes round
she’ll cook for two or three shearers,
three or four shedhands, and perhaps a
couple of neighbors who have “come
over to give a hand.” She makes three
or four or five beds every day, and finds
time to keep the house like a new pin
“in case anybody drops in” from 30 or
40 miles away without warning, and if
three or four do, and decide to stay
several days—well, the missus hops in
and cooks for them, too. Until the kids
are big enough to do it for her she also
feeds the -ebooks and gathers the eggs,
and probably manages to raise three or
four poddy lambs on the bottle in what
you might call her spare time. Also, she
does all the nursing and simple surgery
that might be required, waters the garden
if she’s lucky enough to have one, kills
the odd snake that pops up when her
husband is out in the paddocks, and
sometimes belts out a grass-fire that might
start in similar circumstances. One
valiant soul I knew, sft. tail and 7st.,
once bailed up with an unloaded shotgun
a drink-crazed half-caste who was pro-
posing to brain her husband with a
mattock —but that probably comes under
the heading of “extra duties.” Don’t
tell me a married man runs his own place
—he doesn’t do half of it.
* * * *
“B, A, Ker”; In Unanderra, South
Coast (N.S.W.), within sight of train-
travellers, is a brick cottage built to a
design probably unique in Australia. In
one respect it should gladden the heart of
the man who wrote an article I read some
15 years ago; in another it would be a
bitter blow to him. The article was
written by a man who claimed to have
invented yet another machine to lay
bricks. He had learnt from the failures
of other inventors that the machine must
have either flexibility of movement or
wide scope. His had the latter; but he
had achieved the object by developing a
contraption with huge arms, and the idea
was that the machine stood in the middle
of the job and worked around itself. In
consequence the building would have to be
circular! The inventor, however, went to
great pains to point out the advantages
of circular houses: no corners to catch
dust, less wind-pressure on the walls, etc.
It all sounded rather revolutionary to
"No more ‘Time, gentlemen, please,' for me."
orthodox-thinking blokes like myself, but
the house at Unanderra is constructed
like that —in a complete circle. Built
with the machine? No; that’s the sad
part about it —the owner is a brickie and
he built the cottage with the same tried
and true methods that bricklayers were
using when they built Hampton Court
Palace for Cardinal Wolsey.
* * * *
“Villefair”; In the main street of
Kiama (N.S.W.) I was stopped in my
tracks by the name of a street on a sub-
division plan displayed in an estate-agent’s
window: “Railway Commissioner Road”!
There is nothing new, of course, in
naming streets after famous men;
generals, admirals, authors, poets —all are
well represented in our national nomen-
clature, Some politicians’ names may be
thought appropriate, since few streets
are perfectly straight and some are as
crooked as they make ’em. But just why
should a Railways Commissioner’s title
be perpetuated for posterity?
♦ * ♦ ♦
“W. 8.”; Ostriches were brought to the
Riverina in the ’nineties by the late A. J.
Austin, of Murgha, Deniliquin (N.S.W.).
The venture failed when plumes went out
of fashion at the turn of the century,
but there were still a few birds running
wild on Murgha and adjoining runs in
the early ’twenties. Male birds were
savage and would attack on the slightest
"No one ever takes me anywhere!”
provocation, but could be subdued by
the S’African method of applying pressure
to the long, vulnerable windpipe with a
cane or stick. For a wager, a member of
a well-known Riverina family harnessed
an ostrich to a sulky and drove the turn-
out from Murgha to Zara homestead. A
photo of the turnout and driver used to
hang in the parlor of the old Tattersall’s
Hotel, Deniliquin, but the methods by
which the cranky bird was persuaded to
pull a sulky a distance of 20 miles (not
to mention opening and shutting of several
gates) are not recorded.
* * * *
“H.W.”; The N.Z. native rat, sup-
posedly extinct, has been reported near
the back-country haunts of the lately-
discovered bird, the takahe. Not seen
for a century or more, the rat is said
to have escaped to mountain areas and
outlying islands from the ever-hungry
Maori —speeded, no doubt, by descend-
ants of the fiercer European rat, which
arrived with Captain Cook. The Maori
rat is smaller, longer-furred and shorter
in the tail and snout than its European
relation. A forest-dweller, living on leaf,
root and berry, it was considered a great
delicacy and netted in hundreds. Its
skin was occasionally hung on the ear of
a chief in place of the skin of a huia,
long extinct. If the origin of the native-
rat were discovered, the riddle of whence
came the Maori might be solved.
* * * *
“Gulliver”: They say elephants have
long memories, but my nomination is
an old bay gelding named Bronco I met,
in the evening of his days, in a nor’-west
mustering-camp on the Gascoyne River,
Then about 15, he was a slow, dopey
old prad, usually assigned to the newest
of the newchums as safe and steady —
and even that was understatement. But,
10 years or so earlier, he’d done every-
thing to earn his name —bucked like a
fury every day and most of the day, and on
one never-forgotten morning had thrown
two niggers and the overseer as fast as
they could climb aboard. But the years
brought wisdom; he forgot his evil ways
—until the day when Blue (no new-
chum, either) was told to ride him for
a day’s mustering. Late that afternoon
a few of us, Blue and the placid Bronco
amongst us, gathered at the yards to wait
for the rest of the crew. Sitting slack
in the saddles and yarning, somebody
brought up the tale of bronco’s giddy
youth. Somebody else suggested to Blue,
who was lolling along the old chap’s
neck, “Tickle him up a bit and see if
he can still go,” When he’d finished
choking over this gem of humor, Blue
obliged, kicking his feet out of the
stirrups, swinging them back and ramming
the spurs into Bronco’s flanks. The
moke’s mind, wherever it had been
wandering, flew back like a flash to the
days of his fame. His head shot down,
his legs stiffened, there was almost a
masterly flick of the spine as he humped
his back in the old, well-remembered
curve. Three straight bucks with no
stirrups and a loose girth did the job;
he never missed a trick, even to the
flying kick at Blue’s head as that
astonished gent, hit the sand. “Y’ know,”
said Blue afterwards, “I’m real glad he
did it. It seemed to cheer him up, some-
how ; he was a different horse for days
after that, and it was real fun to ride
him, never knowing when he’d turn it on
again,” But he didn’t. Maybe he re-
membered the ultimate defeat, as well as
the victories, and decided it wasn’t worth
the risk. /
* * * *
“Mingari”; I and a member of a New-
castle (N.S.W.) fishing club heartily en-
dorse “Rooster’s” statement (B. 31/12/’52)
that the real focal-point of the electric-
ray’s current is in the region of the eye.
Squatting in the sand one night on Corrie
Island, Port Stephens, my friend hooked
a fairly large specimen of the tribe.
Familiar with the whip-tailed type but
not, until that evening, with Torpedo
vulgaris, he noticed it was rather sluggish
as he pulled in; as he dragged it on to
the sand and saw the stumpy tail he
concluded that another angler had caught
it, docked it, and let it go. So he stooped
and inserted forefinger and thumb into its
eye-sockets to pull it further up the beach.
He also simultaneously established a
record for the standing broad-jump back-
wards —and from then on he has cut off
every ray hooked, just in case. The
creature in this case was about 2|ft. across
the flaps, and packed a real wallop.
“Emjai”: There was a big influx of
Italians to n.-e. Victoria 25-30 years ago
when tobacco-growing in the Ovens and
King Valleys was booming. They were
tops as workers but, as “Abo.” scribes
have recorded of other localities, the
bird-life in their vicinity approached
vanishing-point. All was meat that came
to their pot. Snooping around a
swamp where I occasionally got a few
ducks, I saw only a pair of stately black
swans and a shooter dodging from tree
to tree. My yell was too late and, when
I intercepted him, with the big bird slung
over his shoulder, his injured retort was,
“Him nobody swanss.” But though they
did not understand, or ignored protection
laws, they had a strict appreciation of
mine and thine, and farmers’ lambs and
fat turkeys never went into their pots.
sfc
“Sack”; The toll of the road is not
confined to Homo sapiens; the lesser
creatures could supply a pretty varied
and extensive casualty list. His habit of
squatting in blissful ignorance on wet
tarred roads at night puts the green frog
high on the roll, and old Bluetongue
often finishes up as a nasty, shapeless
mess through forgetting that crossing a
road is a matter for haste. Bunny starts
off with the intention of doing what the
chicken did, but gets bamboozled by the
headlights and runs in their path until
another casualty is added to the list.
Bandies seem to have even less road-sense,
judging by the number of corpses I
count on my daily ride to work. Dogs
and cats would not have a high mortality-
rate in proportion to their numbers and
proximity to traffic. An occasional dove,
spag or peewee delays the take-off too
long and collides with an oncoming
vehicle, but the only time I saw a kooka
nearly make the mistake was when he
shot into long paspalum at the roadside
and came out in a sort of low, aerial
backflip with a mouse dangling from his
beak. Of course there is the odd Joe
Blake —or what is left of him when an
experienced driver has skidded over his
back ; and now and then you’ll find one
like the big black-’un I finished off last
summer; he, presumably, had been run
over, but his back wasn’t broken and
he still had plenty of life in him. Last
week however, on the road over Mount
Oozley, South, Coast (N.S.W.), I saw a
casualty that surprised me —a fullgrown
wombat. Something had hit him,
although there was no way of ascertain-
ing what, but for the rider’s sake I hope
it wasn’t a motorbike.
OUT OF THE SOIL
Over the stones, out of the soil’s deep warmth,
Brown sticks crissing, gnarled hands clutching
The sky.
Here is the sap, defying winter’s hush,
Winter the living season when
Within the green mind pale thoughts quietly
come.
Gathering to withstand the spring’s exhausting
wind.
And only the quiet eucalypt, the indifferent,
never fading, ever faded,
Can suffer unmoved the cruel summer’s growth.
The red hand leaps
To catch the light
And laughter springs
In the tea-tree bush!
What quickening sound
• Like water rippling
Now hurls the tree
To untold height?
The cold grey foot
That pressed the soil
Is pierced through
With dewy light
And the singing bough
Now sweeps the sky
With shape of music;
Green and white
The hickory’s scent;
The cloud swings free
Out of the sea
And out of sight. ‘
N.S.W.
E. CEE.


“Aestur”: The glowworm or slowworm
that turned out to be ai young black-
snake (B. 24/12/’52) recalled my dad’s
experience half a century back on the
Gold Coast. Fresh from England, sent
out to assemble locos in the “White Man’s
Grave,” he had a healthy dread of snakes
except for the “tiny ones” —about 1 Sin.
long—that he carelessly and occasionally
kicked from his path. Weeks later he
learned that the “tiny ones” were African
whips—more deadly than malaria or
blackwater fever, or both.
* * * *
“Snobby”: Most animals, goats par-
ticularly, love coconut-kernel above
almost any other delicacy. They’ll leave
any food to get a chew of that white
meat. But goats are unlucky. Even if
they knew that stuff was inside the outer
covering of the nut they’d never open
one in a creation of cats. Pigs are
different. I don’t claim they have more
brains than a goat; it may be that the
“Get a move on, dopey!”
dictates of their bellies prompt them to
think deeper. A pig soon takes a tumble
how to open a nut. A sow we had would
tear the husk off a nut, \ising her teeth
as a tin-opener and her front trotters as
a means of holding the thing in position.
She loved the milk, too, though her
method of opening the nut caused her to
lose most of it, but her pincer-like front
teeth were ideally adapted for raking the
meat out —there wouldn’t be a speck of
white left in the shell when she had
finished.
* ♦ * *
“Springvale”: The long-distance migra-
tions of Arctic skuas (B. 31 /12/’52) have
puzzled naturalists all over the world.
It’s proved that young skuas, hatched in
the Arctic, can find their way to the
south of Australia without any guidance
from their parents and generally settle
in the same spots selected by their pre-
decessors through the ages. One theory
suggests that these migration-routes were
first taken in remote geological times
when the English Channel, the Medi-
terranean and the Malay Archipelago
were all land-linked. The seas encroached
so slowly that the birds hardly noticed
the annual variations and so kept to
the same routes. Bird-migrations are un-
doubtedly related to food problems.
Those primordial skuas must have had a
hard time of it in the Arctic, or their
long flights southward in search of food
would not have been necessary. The
majority of tropical and sub-tropical
species do not migrate, there being a
constant supply of food at hand.
* * * *
“Teg”: Is the Merino’s instinctive
liking for high country a survival from
the days of “transhumania” —the Spanish
shepherd’s annual trek from warm dry
plains to summer grazing in the high-
lands? Mustering last summer in the
Darling country between Louth and
Cobar, where there’s a good deal of
rough country (quartzite ridges sheering
up from heavily eroded, gibber-strewn
gullies), I noticed that a large proportion
of the flock was invariably found on the
highest points, even though there was
better feed on the plains below. It was
too rough for horses, so the sheep were
mustered by dogs, aided by the prayers
and curses Of stockmen on foot. In the
rugged Mackenzie country of N.Z., too,
graziers prefer the Merino for its ability
to climb in search of feed, whereas the
Corriedale clings to flat country.
* * * *
“C. Coral”; The Kurnai abos of Gipps-
land (Vic.) had a legend of the deluge in
which the “turndun” (or bullroarer)
figured. Some of the Kurnai children
found one of these while playing, took
it home to the camp, and showed it to
the women. Being an object which no
woman was allowed to see, reactions
followed straightway, the chief occurrence
being the immediate crumbling-away of
the earth and a great inrush of water in
which the Kurnai were drowned.
* * * *
“Swelpme”: I thought nothing a
camping-area could display would sur-
prise me. 1 had seen prefabricated
wooden huts slid off
lorries and erected
in the midst of a
canvas slum ; tents
furnished with
lounge-, arm-, rock-
ing-, high- and
ordinary chairs, ice-
chests, kitchen-
cabinets, baby-baths,
portable stoves and
even floor-carpets.
But when a big truck
pulled up and its
driver inquired the
way to the Seven
Mile Beach (N.S.W.)
I saw something
new. In the midst
of all the camping
necessities and extras
stood a petrol-driven
lawnmower! A deli-
cately-worded ques-
tion brought a com-
pletely unembar-
rassed answer:
“Well, the year be-
fore last we struck a
place where the
camp-sites were all
covered with long
grass; I had to
borrow a reaping-
hook and work like
a nigger to clear a
spot to pitch the tent
on. Last year I
brought the mower
and saved all that.
The next day somebody saw a little
snake wriggle into the grass near the
tank. Well, you know what chance
you’ve got of finding a snake in grass—
unless you tread on him! We bashed
about with sticks, but it was pretty hope-
less ; then the missus got the brainwave
to run over him with the mower. It
fixed him all right; now the missus
would sooner leave the tent behind
than come without the mower.”
* * * *
“Wippegong”: There’s friction down
at the river bend. The old blue heron
that stalks in the shallows would not be
aware of it, for he is above noticing other
people’s discord; and the two black
shags that sun themselves on the big rock
in the rapids would not be aware of it,
either, for it concerns nothing for them
to eat. But the dusky wood-swallows
nesting in the broken manfia-gum on the
ridge feel it all right, as do the rainbow-
birds tunnelling in the loamy bank and
the hooded robin who likes to work down
toward the river before taking a beakful
back to the open nest tucked behind a
curling slice of dead bark. When any
of these come near the stream there’s an
urgent chatter, and an olive-green body,
flashing yellow, darts out and never lets
up until the unwitting intruders are clear
of the honey-eaters’ territory. This is the
yellow-tufted member of the tribe ; a
“I Want another trumpet —this one won't work!”
fowl of rare beauty, symmetrical of form
with brilliant golden marking around the
head, and closest in appearance to the
handsome helmeted honey-eater of Gipps-
land; but despite the attractive figure
and glamorous get-up, the bird has no
manners where docile neighbors are con-
cerned—a condition not restricted to the
avian world. This pair nested in a
tea-tree sprawling out over the water ; a
rather audacious site, for when a warm
week brought down the snow waters the
ripples lapped within inches of the nest-
lings. The young-uns will probably feed
in comparative amity close to the young
wood-swallows and robins ; but by next
season they’ll probably be belting the
hide off the same quiet neighbors, as
though they had the sole right to a
territory the pleasures of which they
might never have known had their parents
not hidden them so well from the old
kookaburra who pretends to doze on the
river-gum above.
* * * *
“C. Towers”: Can’t accept “Cowrie’s”
statement (B. 31/12/’52) that mutton-
birds clustering round a trawler are wait-
ing for plankton brought up by the net
rather than for the small fish thrown
overboard. I’ve watched thousands of
them, and have never seen one yet hunt-
ing for plankton, or even pretending to
do so, when the net breaks surface. They
simply sit on the water a yard or so from
the boat, and the expectant gleam in each
beady eye states very clearly that they
know what they’re waiting for and for
Pete’s sake hurry up and start chucking
it over. By contrast, the little “black-
top” is a full-time worker for his feed.
On the wing all the time, he circles above
the screeching vulgarians, whizzing down
like a divebomber to snatch a fish from
under their very beaks—and he’ll even
rob the mollyauks, though they’re
a dozen times his size. Further, he has
brains Stand on the after-deck with a
small fish in hand, make a move to toss
it into the air, and there’ll be a black-
top poised in the air above the rail, watch-
ing every hand-movement. Fling it up
anywhere handy, and that fish will never
hit the water. In fact, I’ve sometimes
made several feints, and every time the
bird will sideslip into position, dead on
what would be the line of flight. That
bird can think ; the others are just guided
by their inherent gluttony.
* * * ♦
“Teraki”; Before the advent of the
kerosene-refrigerator the sugar-bag of
dry-salted mutton used to hang from the
meaUhouse rafters, the juices soaking
through to form saline stalagmites (or
are they -tites?), and the last few chunks
as hard as a board by the time we got
to them. Those hard pieces generally
seemed to be the home of a colony of
small grey beetles, most of which could
be knocked out by a few smart blows
with the back of the knife, while the last
of them floated out when the meat was
soaked. Harmless, like the weevils in
ship’s-biscuit, they once won for me and
a mate on a bachelor station some
unappreciated notoriety. A mixed party
from town paid us an unexpected visit,
and were naturally asked to stay to lunch.
I vanished to “put the meat on.” Chat-
tering brightly, the ladies of the party
came into the kitchen to help just as' I
was giving a grey and corrugated piece
of brisket the last few clouts and the last
of the denizens were pattering to the floor,
A somewhat furtive conference shortly
took place on the veranda, and it was
announced that one of the -party had
suddenly remembered he had to meet
the train. They left, and we subsequently
learned that the whole district had been
warned never to call on us for a meal —
“Why, good heavens, my dear, they eat
meat with beetles in it out there!” It
saved us a lot of bother from then on.
* * * *
“C.Q.”; Whether cormorants are a
boon or a curse has been under discus-
sion again in Victoria. Fishermen claim
they curtail their harvest by eating fish,
but farmers say they only eat
miners the crabs and yabbies, and are
thus a valuable adjunct to the irrigation
system. The Fisheries and Game Depart-
ment proposes to give the answer by
examining the birds’ stomachs in order
to determine their main diet. This test
was taken years ago by a well-known
anatomist of Melbourne University. He
accompanied an academic shooting-party
which set out to remove the menace from
the Murray Valley. Shags were plentiful,
the sport was good, but when the anato-
mist disclosed that he hadn’t found a
single fish in any of the bodies he had
dissected, but lots of crabs and yabbies,
he became the most unpopular man in
the party.
* * * *
“Gulliver”: The old wooden pub was
gone, and in its place stood a magnificent
two-story affair of yellow walls, colored
tiles and twisted pillars in the best manner
of the Brewery-Spanish school. For two
hours on the first afternoon the beer was
free, and the locals were about four deep
at the bar when the old bloke stopped
in the doorway. Red mallee dust lay
thick on his boots and on the swag he
slowly lowered to the floor. In his pale
and watery eyes flickered a faint gleam
of hope, dimmed by clouds of incredulity
—it was plain that he was afraid he’d
wake on the track with a tongue like an
old sock and a bag of muddy tank-water.
Slowly he came to the edge of the crowd,
a whiskered face on the end of a scrawny
neck bobbing from side to side as he
watched the pots rise and fall, stunned
to see no money passing. The barman
saw him. “Here y’ are, mate ; it’s free! ”
A. bony arm came forward, the gnarled
hand closed round the pot and shook
slightly as he raised it to his whiskers.
After the first disbelieving sip he was a
changed man. In three minutes he’d
sunk as many pots ; in five he had one
elbow on the bar ; in ten he was arguing
shearing tallies with a couple of old
friends he’d never met until that after-
noon. Half an hour later he chatted
the barman about the excessive collar
on his latest pot and ended up on his
ear in the roadway with his swag flying
out the door behind him. But I’ll bel
his memories lasted him for years— if
he could ever find a fellow-swagman to
believe him.
HUNTERS
At finch-dawn under the lemon sky,
Fox-witted, barefoot, you and I;
Hush, said the grass beneath our feet
While our tracks were black on its silver.
When night was routed on Seacliff hill
The sun leaned over to see our kill,
We smoked On a stone till the air was gold,
With a spire of fire under breakfast.
All day we followed where the rifles led,
Black noses questing a foot ahead;
Through his shingle-tree beard and brown cheek-
stubble
We paced on the face of the sleeper.
At dusk he twitched his wrinkled skin
And hills and hills came crowding in,
He opened wide his blind white eye,
His breath was cold on our shoulders.
A comfort then to feel the nuzzle
Of silky stock and slim black muzzle
When blacker hounds were closing round
And the roar from the shore hallooing.
Our whistling kept them just at bay
While the short-cut home seemed the longest
way,
But a boobook’s taunt plucked our mushroom
vaunt
At the door of secure brick burrows.
N.S.W.
R. D. MURPHY.


-<v
?<■«
wo?p)tal
Y
FULL STRENGTH
m,sT> M KNTs > p;t«T jx •.«£■-
mm
m
P5O/54
ill
/
WITH PALMOLIVE BRILLIANTINE
FOR WAT NEWLY BARBERED LOOK
1i
IM
A touch of Palmolive Brilliantine, a
flick of the comb, and your hair is
neat and tidy for the day. You
will have no more worry about
that "plastered-down” look. Palmolive
Brilliantine is a light, delightful oil
that gives the hair a light gloss, and
puts you at the head of the well-
groomed men!
PALMOLIVE
BRILLIANTINE
For Thai Successful
Well-groomed Look
• PB2/120
Business. Rollery. Etc.
COMPANY TAXATION
In Australia we are having far
too much political shivering and
shuffling when it comes to facing
economic realities. The civil-
servant and the trade-union
pressure-group win every time,
with productive industry almost
invariably the donkey. There is,
for instance, no economic justice
whatever in taxing the income of
companies as though they were
individuals (but at a flat-rate),
and then taxing their share-
holders at the full rate applicable
to their total separate income.
Although, legally, a company
is a body corporate with a legal
identity separate from its share-
holders, as a matter of economic
reality it is a joint enterprise
financed by a great or small
number of people. But from the
point of view of the Taxation
Department it is a separate
entity, to be taxed on its earn-
ing and its undistributed profits,
and then its shareholders are
taxed on their dividends from it
at the higher property rate in
the bracket appropriate to their
total income.
Companies and company
shareholders represent a poli-
tical minority, and for revenue
purposes they have been poli-
tically assaulted at an almost
reckless rate over the past decade
or so. Because company earn-
ings show up as an aggregation
of shareholders’ income they
usually represent big figures, and
excite the criticism of the
uninformed, as well as the
improvident, to whom thrift has
no virtue. The large city build-
ings belonging to industrial and
financial concerns also arouse
the envy of some people, though
usually only after the prodding
of some political agitator-
adventurer.
But city buildings are a neces-
sity, as we all should know. The
Federal Government itself has
acknowledged this in a most
practical way: in its resumptions
and requisitions of city build-
ings since 1939, usually against
the will of the owner of the
property. Government depart-
ments are now spread through
the buildings erected by private
enterprise in every capital city of
the Commonwealth, and their
demands for floor-space have
been an embarrassment to
thousands of tenants occupying
smaller individual office-space.
The reward to the owners of the
property is a rent controlled at a
low figure. The buildings are of
no other value to their owners.
The investment by private
enterprise in buildings, manufac-
turing plant, etc., has been a very
necessary thing for this country,
and it has all been the result of
thrift —that is, saving by people
who have usually shown more
ambition and initiative than their
fellows. That this thrift has, in
past years, paid well those who
practised it has been a good thing
for Australia. It has been out of
such thrift and industry that we
have been able to develop our
country and increase our popula-
tion. We have had some assist-
ance from outside capital. In-
vestment in private industry in
Australia by overseas investors
is considerable, but by far the
greater part of the large develop-
ment that had been achieved up
to 1939 was financed out of the
hard work and thrift of the
Australian people themselves.
Between price-control, taxa-
tion, inflation and excessive de-
preciation it is very hard indeed
for industry to create its own
capital these days. Though there
has been considerable factory
expansion in post-war years,
involving great apparent addi-
tions to the capital of some
companies, in terms of output-
potential the additions have not
been anything like what they
appear.
Not only is the rate of taxa
tion on industry excessive ; there
are anomalies in the rate of tax-
free depreciation allowances
S'D
“You go first, George —YOU'VE Worked ’arder than
ME this Week”
caused by inflation which make
profits as shown in balance-
sheets a fiction in many cases.
As a result, some companies are
in reality paying dividends partly
out of capital, even though it
does not appear to be so from
the books. All money figures
these days are deceptive because
of the violent changes which
have been taking place in costs
and prices.
Thrift and enterprise have too
few rewards in present circum-
stances. And as a result we have
become perilously short / of
capital, with consequent frustra-
tion in our rate of development.
The rights of the consumers, the
spenders and the taxing
authorities have been given too
much priority over the require-
ments of the savers, the
organisers and the essential
producers. We are rapidly
approaching the point where the
load on industry and the thrifty
will be too heavy to carry.
The prime cause of our
problem is inadequate output per
head and too high a consump-
tion per head. Not enough
remains as capital in the hands
of anybody. The answer to this
is probably a longer working
week and increased managerial
efficiency. But incentives to
save and invest are also neces-
sary. That means, among other
things, a revision of the 95.-in-
the-£ flat-rate tax on public com-
panies that is charged without
any rebate of tax when thai
taxed income is distributed to
shareholders. This revision
might be made subject to a con-
dition that such income is
ploughed back into the business,
not distributed to shareholders.
Sharemarket Stronger
The bigger wool cheque for
the first half of 1952-53, pros-
pects of a larger clip than last
season, an improvement in the
estimated wheat harvest and a
larger export surplus, and a
greater worker efficiency since
employment became harder to
get have combined with hopes
of taxation relief to induce some
increased support in the Aus-
tralian sharemarkets. Their very
lowness in 1952 was also an
invitation to investors.
Main hopes of taxation belief
are in connection with payroll
tax (which it is hoped will be
abolished) and company tax.
The first is an unjust and
unsound tax, while company
taxation, though it has a longer
history behind it, has little more
justice or merit. The most that
can be expected in connection
with company tax at present.
however, is that it may be
reduced or its incidence amended.
In the New Year rise in the
sharemarket Tooth shares at 745.
have been outstanding. This
represents a lift of 11s. on the
’“low” of 1952 and 10s. on the
closing price for November.
Bradford Cotton has had a smart
rise, too ; at 365. the scrip is up
2s. on the last November sale and
6s. higher than the 1952 “low.”
Batons and Baldwins was much
stronger at 24s. —there is great
asset-backing behind this co.’s
shares, and there should be no
loss on raw-wool stocks in the
year that will end on Apr;il 30 —
and Taubmans ss. shares'streng-
thened to above 165., compared
with last year’s “low” of 13s.
Strong support sent David
Jones to above 415., while in
Melbourne Myer Emporium
rattled up to Bs., compared with
a November price of 7s. Bank
of N. S. Wales £2o' shares rose
to £3B 2s. 6d., against a “low”
of £34 15s. last year and
£36 10s. in. December. Though
B.H.P. was quieter than most
other stocks, at 435. 6d. there
was a small improvement on
closing 1952 quotes here also,
Altogether the upward movement
could be described as general,
but, as usual, stocks not regularly
dealt in were passed over in
buyers’eagerness.
Many shares went far too low
last year. The reaction from the
boom prices of 1951 was violent.
As has been pointed out here
from time to time, many first-
class stocks could be bought in
1952 at prices below the book-
value of the assets of the com-
pany concerned, and in most
cases those assets were written-
down severely in the books even
on 1939 values.
Minerals Galore!
“P. Mobile”; On January 5, in
Canberra, the Acting Minister
for National Development, in a
panegyric on the work of the
Bureau of Mineral Resources
(which represents the most
heavily-staffed and the mosf ex-
pensive section of his depart-
ment), gave a list of mineral
deposits the discovery of which
is credited to the bureau.
The word “discovery” is
rather a misnomer, as most
geologists and fossickers who
have spent any time in the
Northern Territory or North
Queensland have long been
aware of the fact that an
untapped treasury of minerals
exists in those areas. The possi-
bility of commercial develop-
ment at a profit is, however,
quite another bucket of fish, and
is dependent on many factors.
It is very important to know, for
instance, whether the type of ore
is amenable to economic treat-
ment, and it is necessary to know
whether possible profits will be
swallowed up in transport costs
—as has so often happened in
areas situated similarly to those
in question.
In Arnhem Land it is claimed
that three hitherto unknown de-
posits of bauxite “which could
ensure supplies for a few hun-
dred years” have been unveiled ;
but not indication is given as to
whether the bauxite is of a
purity to justify the cost of
freighting to Bell Bay, near
Launceston, in Tasmania, which
is the nearest market.
As to tin, the bureau is said to
have found two small areas at
Maranboy and Yeuralba, near
Katherine (N.T.). The Zinc
Corporation is mentioned as
being engaged in exploring a
deposit “containing up to 40 per
cent, zinc” in Arnhem Land, but
it is not stated whether the
bureau shared in the discovery.
The bureau, however, is credited
with “important” finds of
uranium and a “possible occur-
rence of copper.” In none of
these cases, however, is any
indication given of probable
treatment and transport costs.
As a whole, the statement is
so vague as to essential detail
that it resembles the type of
prospectus issued by companies
which ignore or underestimate
costs and transport problems.


f t\-
The intensive research and
accumulated knowledge ol
precision engineering dur-
ing 100 years of
making result in the pro- £
duction of to-day's,
Lavina —17-jewelled
Swiss master-
pieces.
r 4
P
mm
WATCHES
- Jewell ed
as^erpieceS
LW27.61
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut in
2oz. packets at 28/6d. per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31/6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under 11b.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS.
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
GUARD
j&tU'ci'
PROTECTA
SUtd-StUKigL
TILL
Suitable for every type of business It records
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for lull detail*
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust)
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
Head
E.
Fire,
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS i
R KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS,
r w DUNLOP. A. H. DICKINS. G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
i-XK-M
m
mhi£}w
the name is
(DCollums
the whisky is
i=g :
Hi
Distilled and blended
in Scotland
Mc2/3.2
THE PREMIER N.S.W. SECURITY
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
£2,000,000
LOAN
£4*15*0%
per annum—issued at par
Currency 7 or 11 years
Now Open
GUARANTEED BY THE NEW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT
Applicants have the choice of investing in 7 or 11-year securities
at the full interest rate of 4| %.
Subscriptions are free of exchange and may be paid by instalments.
Minimum subscription, £5O.
Interest accrues from date of investment. Have it credited half-
yearly, FREE OF EXCHANGE, to your bank account.
4|% is the highest rate offered by the Sydney Water Board for
22 years.
HOW TO INVEST
Apply at any branch of the Commonwealth Bank, The Sydney
Water Board, or through a stockbroker. Full Prospectus available
on application.
The Loan (No. 86) has been underwritten to the extent of £1,500,000 by lan
Potter & Co., Melbourne, and will close on or before 31st January, 1953.
WBL2B-53
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
The Capital Problem
Next to a rise in prices for
food exports, nothing could have
pleased Maorilanders more than
the news the Prime Minister,
Mr. Holland, brought back from
abroad that the Commonwealth
Finance Corporation should
serve as “the very sort of
financial machinery New
Zealand could use to provide
capital for future development.”
New Zealand is hungry for
capital. After living largely on
its own resources for a quarter
of a century it will have to get
busy with big works on a scale
it has never attempted before,
and there’s no hope of meeting
the cost without a good deal of
borrowing. Some Maorilanders
think overseas loans should
supply the lion’s share ; others
cling to the Socialist idea that
this would be playing into the
hands of “bloated capitalists.”
But the realistic, hard-headed
fpw see that N.Z. will have to
borrow heavily internally and
externally, for years and years,
to gird and equip itself for the
future.
However, loan money won’t
come as freely as in the palmy
days of the ’twenties, when M.L.
was able to get all it asked for
and spend it as it liked. Today
the lender is going to have a big
say in the spending, and there's
a tag attached to Mr. Holland’s
prospective millions. Overseas
funds will be for productive uses
only, and won’t be within reach
of those who think of nothing
but M.L.’s own interests.
Borrowers will be eligible, and
perhaps eventually welcome, if
they are able to show that the
expenditure will be reproductive
in the broadest sense, and can
pass four other tests: that the
schemes are sound and
economic; that they are designed
to improve the sterling area’s
balance of payments ; that the
borrowing country is prepared
to meet a fair share of the total
cost from its own resources ; and
that the projects will either save
or earn dollars.
New Zealand’s softwood, pulp
and paper schemes pass high by
these tests. They will make
countries on this side of the
world largely independent of
dollar supplies of newsprint this
decade and later completely self-
reliant. They are the kind of
projects that fit the little
country’s economy. There’s vast
potential wealth to be drawn
from M.L.’s 800,000-odd acres
of State and privately-owned
exotic forests.
What appeals particularly to
Maorilanders, in view of their
shyness of overseas tie-ups and
obligations, is that the London
corporation will charge no
entrance-fee, and there won’t be
the bother of deciding whether
it’s safe to enter into commit-
ments like those which bind
members of the International
Monetary Fund and the World
Bank, \
Prospects of Industry
Since the 1952 shake-up, which
gave many New Zealand manu-
facturers a fright, it hasn’t been
taken quite so much for granted
that development must proceed
as a matter of course. In the lull
that followed flooding of the
market with imported goods,
those with a stake in local
industry have taken a more
realistic view of prospects as they
prepare for what lies ahead.
Industry ran to seed a good
deal in the post-war years, and
it was high time it took stock
of itself. Weaknesses like an
excessive tendency towards over-
time work, long breaks for
morning- and afternoon-tea,
special perks and favors to
attract staff all inflated costs to
a point where something had to
be done to arrest the drift; and
that is the challenge manufac-
turers are more or less forced to
face up to today. The Old Year
was a hard one in some factories,
notably in the textile trades and,
in the tyre industry, all of which
had to shorten staff and cut or
eliminate overtime to adjust out-
put to the demands of a tem-
porarily- glutted market. In the
sectors of trade most affected
the feeling was that this was
disastrous, and some cos. are
still struggling to regain their
balance, but for Maoriland
generally a tuning-up was over-
due.
While the fate of the most
hard-pressed remains in doubt,
the majority are able to breathe
more freely, and drastic measures
contemplated to set things right
have been moderated since
exchange and import controls
were reimposed. It is an open
question whether strong enough
action will be taken to deal with
costs during 1953, or whether
inflation will be allowed another
fling. Already manufacturers
have been hinting that dearer
electricity will push up the cost
of living, and if this rise is passed
on, why not higher charges for
transport and other services?
However, to those who like to
see further ahead than their own
noses the immediate issues fall
into perspective in relation to
long - range manufacturing
development, which has no lack
of opportunities, if some basic
weaknesses can be overcome.
One of the certainties of the situ-
ation is that Maoriland industry
will always have a bias towards
light, processing types of enter-
prises. The main exception is
in timber, with pulp and paper
(including newsprint) as its most
lucrative offshoots.
For the rest, N.Z.’s depend-
ence on overseas supplies of raw
materials and plant won’t give
it much chance to go further than
food-processing, light engineer-
ing, clothing and suchlike. One
of the drawbacks is the 40-hour
five-day week, which needs a
shift system to enable costly
plant and buildings to earn their
keep.
On a shift basis M.L. could
get a lot more out of its capital
equipment and thereby make a
sizeable reduction in unit costs.
This, however, won’t come until
the population is larger and
inefficiency in all forms is no
longer tolerated. As the country
can’t afford to go on putting
capital into a fairly wide range
of industries on the scale of the
past few years, a period of con-
solidation is clearly necessary.
In many products there is more
capacity than the market now
warrants, and further steps to
build up must wait until the
market expands with rising popu-
lation or a still higher average
level of prosperity.
/
A mountain of labor went
into paying a modest £34,704 to
shareholders in 54 countries
when Maoriland’s industrial
giant, N.Z. Forest Products,
Ltd., came to light with its first
div. (3i p.c. pref.), after its best
year yet (to March 31). No co.
on either side of the Tasman has
had to tackle such a big job, or
one with more tongue-twisters
of names and currency compli-
cations. Auckland bankers had
to convert N.Z. pounds into 24
different currencies, mostly in
amounts so small that the cost
of payment ranked high in rela-
tion to the total. Some of the
warrants were under 10s., and
the average for the 53,000 par-
ticipants was around 12s. lOd.
each, which must rank as a
world low-record for a payout
of such wide scope.


33-39 HUNTER ST..
SYDNEY.
Offices at:
WAGGA WAGGA,
TAMWORTH and
ORANGE.
•
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73,000,000.
Has your Executor these qualifications?
The Executor and Trustee of your Will must have
certain qualifications if he is to administer your Estate
in the best interests of your dependents.
(1) He must have wide experience in the solution of
business, financial and other 1 problems. (2) He must be
of absolute probity. (3) He must be accessible at all
reasonable times and (4) He must never grow too old for
sound judgment.
You cannot find all these qualifications in a private person
but you CAN find them in Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited.
There is an interesting and helpful booklet on this
important subject, “Your Executor and Trustee.” It
explains the services offered by the Company —and its
charges. ’Phone 80377, or write for a copy to-day.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR. M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX ; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. H. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS. ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
Henry Jones and Subsidiaries.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1942.. 258,465 10 p.c. = 143,017 115,448 1,645,598
1943.. 279,880 10 „ „ 143,017 136,863 1,782,461
1944.. 237,180 10 „ „ 143,017 94,163 1,876,624
1945.. 330,575 10 „ „ 144.742 185,833 2,062,457
1946.. 215,952 10 „ „ 145,317 70,635 2,133,092
1947.. 327,886 10 „ „ 145,317 182,569 2,315,661
1948.. 333,536 10 „ „ 150,000 183,536 2,499,197
1049.. 329,299 10 „ ~150,000 179,299 2,678,496
Unexplained reduction, £1855 ..2,676,641
1950.. 438,061 10 p.c. = 172,500 265,561 2,942,202
Unexplained reductions, £260,082 ..2,682,120
1951.. 438.895 10 p.c. = 180,000 258,895 2,941,015
Unexplained reductions, £1243 .. 2.939,772
1952.. 342,977 10 p.c. = 180.000 162,977 3,102,749
* After deducting intangibles (now £50,935).
With minor fluctuations, the general
trend of share-prices during 1952 was
downward until September. After that
the market gathered a little strength, and
1953 opened with the tone firmer still,
thanks to the encouraging trend of
economic and other developments, both
locally and overseas, and to the steadier
position in the gilt-edge section. In both
cases the improvement was due to a com-
bination of natural forces and Govern-
ment action and prospective action. Chief
weakness in the situation, and one likely
to cause much future trouble, is the per-
sistent rise in costs. The root of the evil
lies in low per-capita output and auto-
matic and quarterly cost-of-living adjust-
ments to the basic-wage, which snowball
through the economy and finally reflect
themselves in costs.
H.J.’s f.-p. £1 shares, which possess
all the ingredients of a sound industrial
equity, fluctuated within the 655.-50 s.
price-bracket during 1952, Last week the
figure stood at 575. 6d., cum rights to
a one-for-six new share-issue at par on
a date yet to be announced. After exer-
cising the rights and allowing for broker-
age, the net price would be 525. 7d., thus
giving the rights a theoretical value of
325., and they might be able to be picked
up for less. On a 10 p.c. div. basis the
return at 525. 7d. is 3.8 p.c., approxi-
mately | p.c. less than can be had from
Government bonds. The investor who
looks for only 5 p.c. on his money counts
on a 14 p.c. distribution and/or other
benefits. Including the new issue—it will
lift paid capital to £2,115,000, on which
10 p.c. will call for £131,477 less profit
than was claimed last term —net tangible
cover is visibly 495. 4d.
Well-entrenched, financially and other-
wise, the co. has a long and pleasing
history as a profit-earner and dividend-
payer. It operates a chain of subsidiaries
which control 17 major jam-making and
fruit-canning factories, and a number of
auxiliary plants, scattered throughout
Australia, New Zealand and South
Africa. Turnover increased by about £2
million, passing the £l3-million-mark last
term. But owing to a steep rise in
operating costs, especially the basic-wage
rate (up 31s. per week) and sugar (up
£2O a ton), there was a slip of £95,918
in declared net earnings, which are known
to be conservatively stated:
Net income—- 1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Australian . . £198,386 £248,032 £231,418 £156,981
Other sources 158,688 190,029 207,477 185,996
Total . . £357.074 £438,061 £438,895 £342,977
In Australia the contraction was 32.2 p.c.
and outside Australia 10.4 p.c., which
again emphasises the danger of the cost
factor already mentioned. The £342,977
of profit claimed was equal to 19 p.c. on
capital as it now stands, or 16.2 p.c. on
£2,115,000 of capital.
Commenting on the position chairman
A. W. Palfreyman says:
The serious decline in total production
of jams in the Commonwealth continues,
and, compared with 1948, shows a fall of
90,000,0001 b. This is causing much
anxiety to fruitgrowers and manufacturers,
and it appears certain that unless a lower
cost of sugar be provided for our export
trade, manufacturers in the coming year
will practically lose the whole of their
export trade in jams. In contradistinction
to jams, there is world demand for our
canned fruit, and we believe the Australian
record pack this year has already been
cleared.
For the year to June 30 last Australian
exports of jams and fruit jellies were
8800-odd" tons (down 10,000 tons), or
about 18 p.c. of total production. How-
ever, what the co. misses on the swings
it might pick up, or largely pick up, on
the roundabouts. Unless something very
unexpected happens, the 10 p.c. div. is not
likely to be interfered with.
Continued expansion is the keynote of
balance-sheet figures;
Henry Jones and Subsidiaries.
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £1,800,000 £1,800,000 £1,800,000
Outside interests* 79,302 82,515 77,108
Suspense account ’ 95,107
Creditors, etc. . . 842,642 1,111,180 1,754,544
Tax reserve, etc... 684,205 654,839 649,129
Final divs. . . 135,000 135,000 135,000
Freeholds, etc. .. 1,160,603 1.312,641 1,417,956
Plant, etc. .. 706.810 915,480 1,111,970
Stocks .. . . 1,764,779 2,465,842 8,148,285
Debtors .. . . 1,467.436 1,625,422 1,665,081
Shares .. .. 150,354 213,660 231,058
Cash, etc. . . 1,244,645 185,984 39,287
Suspense account.. 5,522
Goodwill, etc. .. 50,935 50,935 50,937
* Includes proportion reserves.
To meet net additions of £301,805 to
fixed assets, £682,443 to stocks,
£39,659 to book-debts and £17,398 to
shareholdings the co. went outside, mainly
to its bankers, for an extra £643,364 last
term. The new share capital is to be
used mainly to reduce the outside debt.
Grocery & General Merchants, Ltd.
, Dividends N Re-
June Profit, Pref. Ord. Total. serves.*
30, £ p.c. p.c. £ £
Unexplained addition, £38,396 . . 137,127
1950 .. 110,360 5 7 82,688 164,849
Revaluation freeholds, £181,750 .. 346,599
“Acquisition of assets,” £124,242 .. 470,841
Goodwill written off, £5861 .. .. 476,702
1951 .. 177,011 5 9 137,561 516,152
Surplus sale assets, £50,887 .. 567,039
Tax arrears, £32,045 .. .. 534,994
From inner reserves, £32,800 . . 567,794
Loss.
1952 .. 388,372 5 20,000 169,422
* Reserves subject to Intangibles, being difference be-
tween independent and nominal valuations of assets
acquired (now £344,163).
The heavy overall trading loss of
£388,372 in the co.’s third year is a
sorry anticlimax to the ambitious and
expansive aims of the management, and
shareholders have been rightly critical of
what has happened. In March last, when
there were ominous signs of impending
changes in the economic climate, the
board saw the glow of the past re-
flected too far into the future, and fore-
cast payment of a 9 p.c. div. for the year
that ended so disastrously only three
months later.
The worst of the trouble appears to
have occurred in connection with im-
ported stocks, which were written down
by a substantial but unstated amount;
said to be greater than the loss disclosed.
Few items of local non-perishable foods
showed any appreciable drop in price
over the period in question. Also, grave
weaknesses on a managerial level were
encountered, especially in the canneries
and overseas divisions, the chairman says.
In simpler terms, there was plain mis-
management in some sections. The co,
was caught with big stocks of hardware,
including wire, netting and pipes, some
cancellation of orders occurred, and the
country-stores division suffered heavy
losses.
The overall trading loss was arrived at
after also allowing £97,670 for deprecia-
tion (previous year’s figure not disclosed)
and £23,755 (down £81,483) for taxation.
which suggests that some of the sub*
sidiaries traded at a profit. No harm
would have been done if the board, as
trustees for the shareholders, had made a
full disclosure of precisely what profits
were won and losses made in the various
sections of the business, and the exact
amount by which particular stocks were
written down. The loss leaves out of
the reckoning a capital profit of £50,887
on sales of fixed assets, a short-fall of
£32,045 in the previous year’s tax provi-
sion, and disclosure of £32,800 of inner
reserves. All told, visible reserves were
bitten into for £356,730 net, reducing
them to £159,422, subject to £344,163 by
which the cost of shares in subsidiaries
exceeds their asset-value based on in-
dependent valuation. Profits for the two
preceding years were won under infla-
tionary and other exceptional influences,
and cannot therefore be taken as a reliable
guide to the future.
To get the organisation into perspec-
tive it is necessary to go back to mid-
-1949, when, by an exchange of shares,
the present co. amalgamated the interests
of two manufacturing and wholesale
grocery concerns (David Cohen and Co.
Pty., and D. Mitchell and Co., Ltd.) and
two retail grocery organisations (Bussell
Bros., Ltd., and North Western General
Stores, Ltd.). Additional grocery, manu-
facturing and other units were soon
welded into the undertaking by absorp-
tion and otherwise. The following table
shows the set-up of the group:
June -i
1950. 1951. 1952.
Grocery chain stores ..80 76 76
Country general stores .. 25 30 29
Wholesale warehouses .. 9 12 11-
Factories .. .. .. 4 5 4
Export-import cos. .. 1 2 2
Last term sales and consolidation reduced
the number of retail units by one, ware-
houses by one and factories by one. The
whole undertaking has been planned and
developed on American lines, featuring
self-service “superettes” and “super-
markets” among the retail units, behind
which lies an extensive manufacturing
and wholesale organisation, as well as an
export co. (engaged in the marketing of
rabbit fur in U.S.) and an import co.
(handling liquors and tobacco).
The year’s net reduction in the book-
value of stocks was £154,683 and in
debtors’ balances £64,040:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £1,213,200 £1,858,126 £1,858,126
Mortgages .. 65,350 576,192 579,836
Overdraft .. 701,815 1,839,327 3,0/2,938
Creditors- & taxat’n 456,369 1,681,374 1,223,753
Final divs. . . 44,776 72,906
Freeholds, etc. . . 587,731 1,277,349 1.507,016
Plant & equipment 208,931 627,117 9/8,394
Debtors . , .. 678,149 1,229,025 1,164,985
Stocks .. .. 970,534 2.997,958 2,843,275
Cash & investm’ts 80,850 53,008
Inter-co. balances 34,847 36,661 10,231
Intangibles . . 141,178 323,959 344,163
Development in various sections added
£229,667 net to freeholds, etc., and
£351,277 to plant and equipment. To do
all this and reduce the amount coming to
trade creditors, etc., by £457,621 the co.
leant upon its bankers for an extra
£1,233,611. When the books closed out-
side liabilities exceeded more-or-less
liquids by £812,025, a'slip of £957,878
over the twelvemonth. And there was
£2 Bs. 4d. of outside money in the business
for every £ of shareholders’ funds.
Obviously the co.’s finances could not
stand much repetition of last term’s per-
formance.
What has been done to tidy-up the
position? Much, of course, will depend
upon whether the cut in inventory values
has been deep enough—consolidated
accounts are silent on the point whether
stocks appear at the lower of cost or
market-value. In other directions here is
what the chairman himself says:
A great deal of reorganisation has taken
place within the co. of recent months. Mr.
P. A. Cullen resigned as managing-director
and remains a director. Mr. Norman Tieck
was appointed general-manager and director
and has recently been appointed managing-
director. Mr. Tieck has shown outstanding
ability in his administration of the co’s
affairs aided by loyal and competent
assistants. Within the co’s management
certain senior executives have resigned.
The trading position has improved, and
might further improve. The board’s
biggest headache will be to get the co.’s
finances on a even keel. It would take
years of profits on a scale that can hardly
be envisaged at the moment to accomplish
the task.
The co.’s f.-p. ss, ords., which reached
a peak of 9s. 7d. in 1951, recently
sold at 3s. 6d. The £1 5 p.c. prefs. at 16s.
yield 6.2 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£4 3s. Bd. prefs. and 4s. 4d. ords., all
represented by fixed assets.
Burlington Mills (Australasia), Ltd.
Dividends
Ee-
June Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.
30, £ p.c. p.c. £ £
1945 .. 13,757 5 5,421 12,813
1946 .. 38,688 74 23,516 27,985
Share-issue expenses, £4167 .. 23,818
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 18,818
1947 . . 101,751 8 31,500 89,069
Share-issue expenses, £21,186 .. 67,883
Goodwill purchased, £6OOO .. .. 61,883
1948 . . 98,314 8 53,361 106,836
1949 .. 92,012 4i 8 84,693 114,155
Loss.
1950 .. 6,162 4J Nil 23,750 84,243
Profit.
1951 .. 142,510 4| 8 79,918 146.885
Repairs and tax provisions written
back, £26,253 173,088
Prom staff funds, £5OOO .. .. 178,088
Loss.
1952 ~ 71,109 4f Nil 23,750 83,229
The zigzag and discouraging net trading
results of the last few years of this young
pioneer of Australia’s infant rayon-
weaving industry is due not to any short-
coming of management, lack of plant-
efficiency or quality or style of products,
but a fortuitous recurrence of untoward
outside influences.
The co., in which the Burlington Mill
people of U.S. are interested, kicked off
about eight years ago in a hungry and
sheltered market with £350,000 of ord.
capital, which was doubled by a par issue
in 1946, and £500,000 of cheap (4| p.c.)
pref. money was gathered two years later,
thus lifting paid capital to £1,202,755 —
the £2755 is employees’ shares! The ords.
got a maiden 5 p.c. in 1945, followed by
p.c., three lots of 8 p.c,-, nil, 8 p.c.
and nil again last term.
The trouble began when the Govern-
ment withdrew the subsidy paid on
locally-consumed rayon yarn (all im-
ported), thus bumping up the selling-price
of Australian-made rayon fabrics. Rising
costs aggravated the position, and at the
same time overseas manufacturers, who
were selling rayon-yarn at higher prices
in their export than in their home
markets, enjoyed a competitive cost-
advantage in the production of rayon
textiles. To hold its home market this
Australian co. had to sell some lines below
cost. Hence the loss of £6162 in 1950.
Then the duty on imported rayon
materials was lifted to Is. 6d. a square
yard, an increase of Is, 4|d., more better-
grade yarns came forward, and bigger
output and sales at rising prices enabled
a record profit of £142,510 to be shown
for the year to June 30, 1951.
Last term a fresh crop of difficulties
appeared. Heavy imports flooded the
market, demand slackened, the furnishing-
materials section of the mill closed down
for several months and staff was re-
trenched. The rayon-weaving division
was similarly hit, import duties being
temporarily suspended. In this section,
however, the alert management was able
to switch production to other lines, and
a small profit was earned. The ribbon
mill also made a small profit on reduced
turnover. But the overall net result was
a loss of £71,109, after allowing £51,972
(down £40,260) for depreciation. The
pref. div. (£23,750) was more than covered
by transferring back to p. and 1. previous
excess provisions for taxation, etc., inter-
lined in the table. The net reduction in
reserves, which are none too stout a prop
for capital, was £63,606.
The contraction in the more-or-less


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Institutions throughout Australia
'JACKSON^
oSUMJVAjv
MARK
BRISBANE
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Wo
brings rapid
relief to sufferers from
• RHEUMATISM
• SCIATICA and
• NEURITIS
Thousands of suf-
ferers of complaints
within the Rheuma-
tic Groups who had
given up hope of
ever getting relief,
are now living nor-
mal lives thanks
to Dolcin. Dolcin
gives prompt and
prolonged relief from
the painful symp-
toms of Rheumatism,
Neuritis, Lumbago,
Gout, ete.
. DOLCIN Is non-toxic.
• DOLCIN is prescribed
medical profession.
. 1,100,000,000 tablets have been
administered throughout the world.
. DOLCIN is obtainable from your
.VS
Sciatica,
iTibrositis,
by the
chemist.
DOLCIN
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent A
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTKAEIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter '
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Bead,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 18T8.
Head Office; 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). E. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
C. C. GALE. STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
\ Military Hospital demands
NOISELESS, EFFICIENT, ( DEPENDABLE,
cz z^ervu
ervtee —•
THAT’S WHY THE LIFTS ARE BY OTIS
Yes, like every other important hospital Repatriation Hospital,
Heidelberg, relies on Otis Lifts to provide the ultimate in service
facilities for staff, patients and visitors. Heidelberg is fitted
with the latest type Otis lifts including 5 High Speed Bed
Passenger Elevators, 2 Goods Elevators and 7 Service Lifts,
which ensure perfectly smooth starting and stopping and level
stops at all times.
• Architects: Leighton
HEIDELBERG MILITARY HOSPITAL, Irwin & Company.
Melbourne, Victoria. • Builder: E. A. Watts.
I
w
m
m
m
iH
m
CM
Eff
> >•;'
if
m
■
u
m
mm
....■’ ■
.
a i
SIS
■
■
m
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
M
wm
liquid surplus (£207,948), or
working capital, was £102,039:
Paid capital— 1950. 1951. 1952.
£ £ £
Ordinary . . 700,000 702,755 702,755
Preference 500,000 500,000 500,000
Overdraft . . 897,771 723,084 1,247,733
Creditors . . 89,038 141,578 134,254
Tax provision 5,198 126,470 115,717
Staff fund . . 5,000 5.000
Final div. .. 11,875 68,000 11,875
Leasehold, etc. 75,025 83,908 83,378
Plant . . 868,414 824,470 802,537
Plant construc-
tion . . 11,550 6,787 2,969
Parts & stores 88,036 129,481 189,152
Stocks . . 933,924 944,772 1,321,157
Debtors . . 276,603 393,665 365,738
Investments . . 40,001 30,001 30,001
Cash . . . . 427 631 631
Intangible assets 10,000
The net addition to fixed assets
was £33,390, and to stocks
£376,385—the latter appear at
the lower of cost or market
price. To meet these and other
outgoings the co. went to its
bankers for an extra £524,699.
When the books closed there was
21s. 6d. belonging to the bank
and other creditors in the busi-
ness for every pound of share-
holders’ funds.
Prospects at the moment favor
a moderate profit for the current
term. Wholesalers’ and retailers’
stocks are being worked down ;
import duties, which are in full
operation again, and import
restrictions, presently to be eased
a little, are keeping overseas
competition in check ; and the
two main sections of the mill are
again working at or near full
production on a two-shift basis.
But costs are high and still rising,
which means narrow margins,
and the bank overdraft will have
to be worked down. Until this
is done it is difficult to say what
dividends are likely to be paid.
The market sums up by pric-
ing the f.-p. £1 ords. at 19s. as
against 255. a year ago. The
4i p.c. prefs. at 13s. 9d. yield
6.9 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£2 11s. sd. prefs. and 225. 4d.
ords., mostly in plant, etc., worth
what it can earn.
Goliath Portland Cement
Dividends \
Net Pref. Re-
Sept.. Profit. 7 p.c. Ovd. serves.
£ £ £ £
’46. .26,126 10,016 5.06 = 14,391 27,138
’47..44,361 10,016 11.1 = 28,781 32,702
Add plant renewal reserve,
£25,000 57,702
’48.. 42,268 10,016 11.1 = 28,783 61,171
Add plant renewal reserve,
£25,000 86,171
’49.. 36,767 10,016 11.1 = 28,782 84,140
Add plant res., etc., £25,133 109,273
’50..39,563 10,016 11.1 = 28,782 110,038
Revaluation freeholds, £202,797 312,835
Reserves capitalised, £127,917 184,918
Add plant res., etc., £20,023 204,941
’5l. .31,174 10,016 6.6 = 25,583 200,516
Add plant reserve, £30,000.. 230,516
’52.. 45,271 10,016 7.5 = 28,782 236,990
It was bigger output and sales
of cement that put the lift of
£14,097 in last term’s declared
net profit. Over 100,000 tons of
the stuff was produced, of which
95,719 tons was consumed
locally, the State Hydroelectric
Commission taking nearly 20 p.c.
of it. The relatively small main-
land trade is non-competitive,
owing to the high-cost of sea
transport, and likely to continue
only while a shortage exists in
other States. Output of asbestos-
cement sheeting was barely suf-
ficient to meet local needs for
the first half of the term, but
demand fell off rapidly during
the second half, owing to reduced
activity in the building-trade.
Despite a leap of nearly 30 p.c.
in operating costs, profit shown
in the p. and 1. accourfts was
£24,097 better at £75,271. That
was after allowing the usual
£lO,OOO for depreciation and
what looks like a generous
£65,417 (up £15,417) for taxation.
Of the £75,271, the board passed
£30,000 (up £10,000) to plant-
renewal reserve, making it
£125,000, thus leaving the net
amount available for distribution
at £45,271, which covered the
pref. div. and 9.1 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 5.5 p.c. for the
previous term. The div. was
lifted from 6.6 p.c. to 7.5 p.c.,
which is equal to Hi p.c. on
capital as it stood before the
50 p.c. bonus scrip-issue in April,
1951.
Whether net available profit
was actually better than claimed
depends largely upon whether
the combined allowances for de-
preciation prove more than
adequate to cover actual plant-
replacement cost. Inflation has
played havoc with the computa-
tion of real profits. In practical
business the true economic cycle
of an enterprise begins with plant
and goods, not money ; so no
real profit is earned until
adequate provision has been
made for replacement of the
appropriate proportion of fixed
and liquid assets concerned. It
is high time the Government
turned attention to this
important national problem, the
gravity of which has been
obscured, but not diminished, by
the fact that replacement of the
bulk of the country’s industrial
assets in terms of depreciated
paper-money has not yet become
imperative.
Finances are sound:
1950. 1951. 1952.
£ £ £
Paid capital . . 398,926 526,843 526,843
Sundry
creditors .. * 37,495 61,949 122,328
Tax provision.. 42,000 52,103 65,000
Final div. . . 19,188 12,791 19,188
Freehold leases,
plant, etc. . . 205,533 431,203 465,548
Stocks .. .. 141,013 194,969 247,497
Book debts . . 91,233 87,169 111,957
Cash, 'etc. . . 154,126 120,120 73,841
Shares in other
cos 20,750 25,750 76,514
Last term £34,345 net was added
to the book-value of fixed assets,
£52,528 to stocks and £24,788 to
book-debts. Of the growth of
£50,764 in shareholdings, £12,500
was in respect of calls on 25,000
£1 shares, now paid to 17s. each,
in North Australian Cement,
Ltd. (Townsville), which is near-
ing the production stage; the
other £38,264 is a half-interest,
with Humes, Ltd., in a new
asbestos mine in Southern
Rhodesia, where a new co., Bend
Asbestos, Ltd., has been formed
to develop the venture on a
“substantial scale.”
To provide more working
capital 191,875 new 10s. ords.
were issued at par last month,
thus lifting issued capital to
£622,780 in 143,092 £1 7 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 959,377 10s. ords.
The pref. div. and 1\ p.c. to the
ords. on that lot will call for only
£722 more profit than was
claimed last term.
The f.-p. ords. at 12s. 6d., ex-
rights, return 4.8 p.c. on a p.c.
div. basis, with prospects.
The prefs. at 245. yield 5.3 p.c.
Net tangible cover is £6 prefs.
and 14s. lid. ords.
Zinc
For the first time since 1939
free trading in zinc was resumed
on the London Metal Exchange
on Jan. 2, when the metal
fetched around £894 per ton,
thus leaving high and dry the
last official figure of £BllO per
ton under the British Govern-
ment’s bulk-buying and -selling
plan. Three outstanding features
of the first day’s trading were
the manner in which the price
held up, the premium (£S3 per
ton) of spot over forward pur-
chases, and the amount of metal
sold by the Government —of the
3300 tons of zinc which changed
hands some 2000 tons came
from official sources. On Jan.
7 the spot price had dropped to
£SB9 ss.
Since zinc’s impending
freedom was first announced in
October last, consumers cut
their purchases to a mini-
mum, which, of course, meant
eating into stocks —those in the
hands of British users at end
1952 were equal to not much
more than a fortnight’s consump-
tion. But stocks in the hands of
the Government stood at some
140,000 tons at end 1952. Previ-
ously the metal had sold on the
Continent at around £SB6 10s. a
ton and in New York at the
equivalent of £SIOO a ton,
equal to £SB6 London after
for freight and U.S.
import duty.
The London average price of
zinc, which stood at a peak of
£SI9O a ton for the nine months
to end April last, was approxi-
mately £5149.2 for the whole of
1952 as against £8171.75 for
1951. Present expectations are
that the London price will fluc-
tuate within the £SBS-£S9S
bracket for some months to
come. Because zinc costs more
to produce than lead, it is
thought that any price less than,
say, £SBS a ton would put some
producers, especially high-cost
U.S. mines, in difficulties.
The spot price of lead, which
dropped sharply from £SI32 to
£S9O a ton after the metal was
placed on the free list about
three months ago, stood at
£SIO6 on Jan. 2. The Aus-
tralian price for both lead and
zinc was lifted from £A6S to
£A9S a ton as from September
5 last.
It all means a sharp fall in
revenue for the Electrolytic
Zinc Co. and the big lead-zinc
mines at the Barrier and at Mt.
Isa. The sharemarket, however,
had largely anticipated events:
SHARE PRICES.
Aug. 29, Dec. 3, Jan. 9,
1952. 1952. 1953.
North B.H. .. 74/- 64/- 72/6
B.H. South .. 63/- 55/9 59/-
Oons. Zinc. .. 33/ 32/ 33/6
New B.H. . , 34/1 27/- 29/6
Mt. Isa .. 50/6, £4/9 49/6
In all cases there was a wide
margin between last term’s net
earnings and distributions ; still,
some cuts in dividend-rates are
likely.
All the zinc concentrates from
the North and South cos. at the
Barrier and part of those from
Zinc Corp. and New B.H. Con-
solidated find their way to the
zinc smelter at Risdon. Between
50-60 p.c. of the resultant metal
output is sold on the local mar-
ket, which also absorbs about
one-third of the lead from the
smelters at Port Pirie, which
treat all the lead concentrates
from the big cos, at the Barrier.
The mines at Mt. Isa and Cap-
tain’s Flat export all their lead
and zinc products.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Ask women what they want for 1953
and most of them will tell you—“peace,”
first and foremost. Next comes a larger
housekeeping allowance to cope with in-
creasing costs, and after that more per-
sonal and trivial needs. Women’s organi-
sations, which fight for the things needed,
gave some indication to this Letter of
their programmes for 1953 which will
be of interest to many readers.
The Country Women’s Association
stresses for 1953 the need for response
to the Call to the Nation, as a practical
means of improving the moral standards
of today. Mrs. J, M. Gordon, the State
president of the C.W.A., considers that
the call embodies the same ideals as the
association’s own motto —“Honor to God,
Loyalty to the Throne, Service to the
Country,”
Among other major objectives of the
C.W.A., according to the State honorary
secretary, Mrs. J. M. Campbell, are
greater economic stability so that women
can attend to their jobs as homemakers
without being borne down by money
worries. Flood-prevention and bushfire-
control must also be improved, says Mrs.
Campbell, and roads attended to. To city
people a bad road is merely an incon-
venience ; to country people it means that
they cannot get their produce out for sale
or their provisions in for themselves.
The roads are for them truly vital arteries
and must be placed in the forefront of
needs for 1953.
President of the National Council of
Women, Mrs. J. Metcalfe, said that the
council was particularly concerned about
the plight of aged and elderly people
who were not only affected by the high
cost of essential foods, but who were
-often friendless and lonely.
Another problem the N.C.W. is tack-
ling is that of the possible effects of
television. If and when television is in-
troduced to Australia the council intends
to recommend that it be controlled by
some Commonwealth authority for a
period during which its effects could be
watched, and the matter then reviewed
again.
Milk at reduced prices for nursing and
expectant mothers and for children up
to five years will also be one of the
council’s aims. It is thought that
mothers tend to .deprive themselves of
this essential food because of high prices-
and to cut it down when the family
budget feels the pinch. This is bad for
the health of the community, Mrs. Met-
calfe said, but could be overcome by
Government help.
Mrs. E. G. Jesson, president of the
Housewives’ Association, also sees the
price of milk as a major worry for women
during 1953. The quality of bread is
also a matter for concern. She sees some
hope in the reduced price of flour, which
might level off the price of bread if special
ingredients have to be added to make
a better loaf.
The Housewives’ Association is also
particularly anxious to have eggs sold by
weight instead of by number. When it
Was suggested that this might mean alter-
ing all the recipes, Mrs. Jesson said that
eggs varied so much nowadays that
one had to uSe judgment with recipes as
it is. The “topping” of fruit on fruit-
barrows, Mrs. Jesson thinks, is not a
general practice, as the barrowmen are
generally too busy to be discriminating
on the items they sell. The conditions at
the food markets have been greatly im-
proved by the action of the Lord Mayor
(Alderman P. D. Hills), said Mrs. Jesson,
but she did think the habit of spitting
in the street was a mtenace to public
health.
Although the association was concern-
ing itself about the labelling of textiles
and urging that the exact percentage of
wool in an article should be indicated,
Mrs. Jesson said that the main efforts
of the housewives in her association would
be directed to the “food front,” as of
the most vital importance.
☆ ☆ ☆
The fashion of “going abroad” is de-
veloping into a very fever. Every second
person one meets seems to be saving
vigorously, having passport photos taken,
buying nylon clothes, studying a foreign
language or joining international clubs
with a view to getting away from here.
The Shaw Savill line’s next ship (as yet
unnamed) will cater for passengers only,
one hears, and will get round more rapidly
from place to place because time won’t
be lost loading and unloading cargo. An-
other new thing about this ship is that
the cabins are to be air-conditioned so
that even in the tropics the travellers will
be calm and cool.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. George Bain Burnett, who left
on the Roma last Thursday fOr Europe
and the U-K., will study television in the
six months she is away. Mrs. Burnett
has been associated with radio-, stage- and
film-casting for the past eight years and
intends to make herself fully conversant
with television requirements before she
returns. A member of the Soroptomist
Club of Sydney, Mrs. Burnett will address
the members of the London headquarters
on the “Coronation Appeal” which the
Sydney Club has started to raise funds
for the N.S.W. Society for Crippled
Children. This appeal is in line with the
world-wide policy decided upon at the
Soroptomist Conference at Copenhagen
last August. Photograph by Clarice
Boyce.
A charming party to farewell the
Consul-General for Norway, Mr. S. S.
Klingenberg, and Mrs. Klingenberg,
departing for Norway, was given
by Mrs.. Alex. Morgan at her Kirribilli
home. Masses of hydrangeas, gladioli
and red roses lit by red candles in
Georgian candlesticks made a lovely back-
ground for the beautiful gowns of the
guests, who included many members of
the consular corps. Mrs. Morgan, whose
son, Mr. Bruce Morgan, helped her re-
ceive the guests, wore a crinoline gown of
silvery-green brocade. Mrs. Klingenberg’s
dress was a beautifully-draped chiffon in
two shades of grey. Among the guests
were the Count and Countess Pietrasanta
Sauvaigne, Mrs. Chic Bouvet, Mr. and
Mrs. C. R. McKerihan and Mr. and Mrs.
Gordon Johnstone.
☆ ☆ ☆
President of the Fifth Annual Opera
Ball this year, Mrs, Marcel Dekyvere,
accepted the office because of the admira-
tion she had for the National Opera Com-
pany, and for Mrs. C. T. Lorenz, its
founder. The ball is to be held on
April 15 at Grace Bros, Ballroom, which
can accommodate 800 people, so it is
hoped that every section of the theatrical
and musical world will be well
represented. Assisting Mrs. Dekyvere
are Mrs. H. C, Coombs, treasurer, and
Mrs. David Klippel, secretary. Mrs. C. T.
Lorenz and Miss Doris Fitton were
elected vice-presidents of the ball com-
mittee.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was interesting to see that in T.S.S.
Gothic, berthed in Sydney during the
week, the apartments designed for , the
Queen (then Princess Elizabeth) included
a tiny kitchen for her private use. It
seems that her Majesty when entertaining
friends informally likes to be able to
prepare coffee and sandwiches for them
herself if it’s possible.
☆ ☆ ☆
On New Year’s Eve the Cedar-room at
the Hotel Australia looked as if it had
been transported to St. Moritz. The
walls were covered with murals of white
and blue alps, snowfields and chalets, all
gleaming with icy sparkles. The trans-
formation had been done by one Pro-
fessor Schara, who says that he has
specialised in this work all over the world,
notably at the Taj Mahal Hotel, Bombay,
and that he can change any ballroom into
the .Arabian Nights palace, the Arizona
desert, the streets of Venice or what-you-
will within 38 hours.
MIEILIOCUICNiE '
Shortly after Christmas, Lieut.-Com-
mander Michael Parker (private secretary
to the Duke of Edinburgh), his wife and
two children, Anthony and Julie, arrived
from England on a brief visit to his
parents. Captain and Mrs. C. A. Parker,
of East Kew. Among appointments
Lieut.-Commander Parker kept were a
visit to the White Ensign Club to see
how it cares for sailors on leave and an
evening at the Princess Theatre, where
his sister Mary is appearing in “The
White Sheep of the Family.”
A few days before the sailor and his
family left for Sydney, where they were
due to spend a week before flying back
to England by way -of Honolulu and
New York, Captain and Mrs. Parker
entertained many of their son’s friends.
Mrs. Parker welcomed her guests wearing
a frock of black wool romaine; her
daughter-in-law was in a full-skirted frock
of corn-gold paper-shantung. Mrs.
Charles Parker and her two sisters-in-
law, Susan and Mary Parker, chose
simple white tailored frocks. With Wing-
Commander Peter Parker, another son,
was his wife, in a pretty frock of cyclamen
moire taffeta. Her sister, who was with
husband ' Dr. Desmond Hollywood,
topped silver-grey taffeta frock with a
bolero of cyclamen taffeta.
Also there —Mrs. I. Style, in a grey
frock worn with a wide-brimmed grey
straw wreathed with matching tulle ; Mrs.
Peter Condon, whose grey linen frock was
prettily patterned with white daisies;
Mrs. James Rohan, in grey crepe and a
small grey hat, laden with multicolored
flowers ; Mrs. Sandy Lowe, eye-catching
in a draped frock of silver grey corded
faille ; Mrs. Perry, accompanied by her
husband. Captain Charles Perry, R.A.N.,
chose a shantung frock in beech-brown
tonings and a dyed-ermine stole; and
Cecilie Newing, off shortly on a trip
overseas, who wore a frock of junior blue
crepe with a small blue-shot faille cloche.
☆ ☆ ☆
Pictured herewith, Mrs. John Rich
(appearing under the name of Marita
Lowdon ) has fairly danced her way
through life —in the J. C. Williamson
company for four years and later
invited by Marie Rambert to join the
English Rambert company. During the
season, she danced in this city and then
toured New Zealand for 18 months. On
this tour she met John Rich, a member of
the orchestra, and was later married at
the home of John’s uncle and aunt, Mr.
and Mrs. E. J. Loch, of Brookburn Stud,
Bowral ( N.S.W. ). Now Marita has joined
the teaching staff of the National Theatre
Ballet School, and is producing and will
dance in “Aurora’s Wedding” and “Pas de
Quatre.” Elder daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Charles Lowdon, Marita hobbies
with cooking and swimming.
☆ ☆ ☆
Lady Burston, wife of the chairman
of the Moonee Valley Racing Club, re-
turned from the Davis Cup excitement
in Adelaide in time to be out at the
course for the recent meeting. She
entertained at a quiet luncheon prior to
the first race. Also entertaining was the
secretary’s wife, Mrs. W. S. Cox, whose
black linen-suit was highlighted with a
white guipure-lace blouse and small white
chip-straw hat. Mrs. John Cox was one
of the most attractive of young matrons,
her full-skirted frock of brown-and-green-
shot taffeta topped with a small white
hat. The frock of her mother, Mrs.
Frank Watts, was an unusual mixing
of white lace and patterned black linen,
crowned by a white panama hat with a
wide curving brim. With her, Mrs.
Henry Walters looked attractively cool
in a navy crepe spotted-in-white frock
with a pleated skirt and a grey straw hat
swathed with grey chiffon. Mrs. Lance
Rigg, wearing a multicolored printed
white silk frock and small black cloche,
was accompanied by schoolgirl daughter
Alison. Pale-pink roses were clustered
on the brim of the black straw picture
hat Mrs. E. Gregg wore with a black
georgette frock. Mrs. Bill Gluth’s frock
was a red-and-white candy-striped silk;
she topped it with a tiny white straw hat.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dressing was simple for the M.R.C.’s
meeting at Moonee Valley; cottons,
linens, nylons, silks, polka-dotted, striped
and floral /nade a brave showing. Mrs,
Dick Nodne’s royal-blue white-flower-
printed frock had a natural Italian straw
hat trimmed with wheat-ears for com-
pany. Her mother, Mrs. A. E. Head,
wore a silk in muted grey, white and blue
florals, and with it a black straw hat.
A frock and jacket of white-patterned
brown shantung and a leghorn hat were
the choice of Mrs. R. A. Burgoyne.
Of emerald-green shantung was Mrs.
Lionel Newton’s jacket-suit; her
swathed emerald-green chiffon toque had
a flyaway bow at the back.
A wide-brimmed black straw hat topped
Mrs. W. H. Horsfall’s white-polka-dotted
elephant’s-breath silk frock. Mrs. I.
Gold, of Sydney, wore a dove-grey silk
frock and brilliant-red straw picture-hat.
Mrs. John Newton’s anthracite-grey
organza frock with its very full skirt was
spotted in lighter grey. Mrs. W, P.
Mein, who deputised at luncheon for the
chairman’s wife, Mrs. Stan Garnsworthy,
wore a navy ensemble. Mrs. John Reilly,
wife of the M.R.C, secretary, was co-
hostess ; she wore a shell-pink crepe
frock patterned with tiny black Egyptian
figures and a hat of shell-pink straw.
Mrs, Gerald Alderton’s frock of white
linen had the round neck and short
sleeves edged with narrow white guipure
lace; her large straw hat was emerald-
green.
A charming and unusual wedding-dress
of white linen, fashioned with a full skirt,
simple bodice and cap sleeves, was chosen
by Susan Montgomery, only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs, Hugh McCubbin, of Punt-
road, South Yarra, when she married
recently at Christ Church, South Yarra.
Completing the wedding ensemble, a short
white tulle veil fell from a tiny linen cap
and shower bouquet off white roses, gar-
denias and bouvardia. Mrs. John Mc-
Cubbin was matron-of-honor and Lynette
Barber bridesmaid. They wore ballerina-
length strapless frocks of aqua-blue em-
broidered lawn with matching boleros,
with red roses of their bouquets matching
red straw picture-hats.
Bridegroom was Dr. Anthony Edwards,
elder son of Mr. and Mrs. Adrian T.
Edwards, of Lindfield, Sydney ; best man,
John Butters, of Sydney; groomsman,
Dr. David Edwards. The reception was
held at the home of the bride’s parents.
☆ ☆ *
Artist James Govett, returned to his
native heath after some years abroad, is
holding an exhibition of his work in the
Athemeum Gallery. The highlight is a
delightful portrait of Princess Margaret,
which is to be presented to the Victoria
League.
Another portrait of special interest is
that of Field-Marshal Sir William Slim,
the new Governor-General. Viscount
Bruce, Mrs. John McCarthy (wife of
the deputy High Commissioner for Aus-
tralia in London) and Helen Harrison, of
Sydney, are others whose portraits are
hung. The artist’s mother, Mrs. Nellie
Govett, is sharing the exhibition with her
son and showed many examples of still-
life.
There on the opening day were Mrs.
Douglas Stephens, Junior, accompanied
by Anna Beale, a recent arrival from
England, Mrs. Fred Dennett, who was with
her daughter Mrs. Sue Cecil, Mrs. Hans
de Wolf, whose cool white linen frock
and shady white hat were most suited to
the weather, Mrs. Frank Hobill Cole,
Mrs. Powen Allen, Mrs. N. J. Pettingeel
and Marjorie Tatnall.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
4ND PERTH
Lepal Notice
IN THE COURT OF BANKRUPTCY—
DISTRICT OF TASMANIA.
TO EDWARD MILLER 68 Wellington
Street Launceston Tasmania a bankrupt.
—TAKE NOTICE that the Official Receiver
of your estate will apply to the Court
.at the Supreme Court Building Hobart
on Thursday the Twenty-ninth day of
January 1953 at 10 a.m. for your Com-
mittal to Prison The grounds of the
application are your failure to observe
the obligations imposed upon you under
the Bankruptcy Act By an order’ dated
the 11th December 1952 the Court
ordered that publication of this notice
should be ddemed to be good and suffi-
cient service on you of the application
If you do not appear the Court may make
an order for your committal in your
absence The relevant documents may
be inspected at this Registry. DATED
this 7th day of January, 1958. —W. A.
MACKEY, Deputy Registrar.
Divorce Notice
TO DUNCAN SNOXALL formerly of Mel-
bourne, Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that
your wife VIOLET SNOXALL has com-
menced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
Divorce on the ground of desertion If
you desire to defend such proceedings
you must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court Perth within
Thirty clear days from the date of this
publication In default of your so doing
the case may proceed and the Court may
pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. —DATED this
24th day of December, 1952.- —G. J.
BOYLSON, Registrar. MESSRS. HARD-
WICK, GIBSON & GIBSON, of Vic-
toria House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
DOCTORS • STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
More successful men use
HE LOOKED
SMART
AND GOT
THE JOD!
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
With that clean, s-m-o-o-t-h, successful look. Bill’s
a credit to his Company. Your shaves, too, will
look good and feel good with Palmolive the
Shaving Cream that gives 3 men out of every 4 a
better shave. Proof? Here it is. We asked 1,251
men to try it . . ~ 81% reported “Beards easier to
cut" ... 76% said “Less razor pull” ... 71% said
"Closer shaves.” ... 80% found “Smoother-feeling
skin.” But you be the judge. Follow the example
of successful men. Get smoother, more comfortable
shaves with Palmolive Lather Shaving Cream.
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
BANKERS •
PSS/J2l
The shaving cream
of successful men
EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN • LAWYERS
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Kenneth Neate
The National, Opera Concert
at Sydney Town Hall was an
undress performance which still
left a great deal to the imagina-
tion ; when Raymond Beatty
was singing the “catalogue” aria
from “Don Giovanni,” for
instance, the imagination had to
fill in the wicked mockery of
Mozart’s fiddles and flute. If
there is anything that can under-
line the importance of an
orchestra to opera it is a night
of operatic arias and choruses
with only organ or piano accom-
paniment.
Not only are operatic arias
written with an orchestra in
mind, but also the voice that is
specially developed to sing them
needs an orchestra to back it,
and even to cover it. This be-
came apparent when Kenneth
Neate, the star of the evening,
who had given his services free
to the cause of our opera com-
pany, performed. A robust pro-
duct of Sydney’s police choir,
subject of the famous radio-
criticism about the tenor who
was broadcasting from Adelaide
as though he wanted to be heard
in Sydney without the aid of
radio, Mr. Neate’s overseas
studies have turned him into an
opera-singer of assurance and
style.
If anything, the power of his
voice has increased, so that it
can rattle the listener’s ear-
drums ; clear, incisive and hard
in fortissimos, it has a furry
quality in softer passages that
might blend with an orchestra,
but not with a piano ; nor does
the sudden operatic change from
a moan to a bellow seem justi-
fied without the rising thunder
of an orchestra to bear it up.
The main pleasure of the even-
ing came from a porcelain
figurine in pink satin called
Marjorie Conley, who sang the
“Laughing Song” from “Fleder-
maus” in a voice as liquid and
slithery as satin and with as fine
a finish as porcelain, and even
managed to come through the
rumpus of the trio that ends
“Faust” —though maybe Messrs.
Neate and Beatty were pulling
their punches. But most applause
was given Sydney’s police choir,
which marched on stage to try
to detect “The Lost Chord”;
evidently a difficult case, for
twice Mr. Neate, as soloist,
missed his entry —one could hear
the police conductor, Mr. Thew,
saying to himself “He hasn’t a
clue!”
The other soloists were Gladys
Mawson, Neil Eastman, Florence
Taylor and Tais Taras; the
choir sang well, but, in terms of
Charles Lawrence’s old gag,
“They didn’t seem so effective
without their costumes.”
❖❖ 1 ❖
“All My Sons”
As Lord Dunsany’s Dean
Spanley remarked, with admir-
able canine sagacity, an
exhausted bone, judiciously
buried in the right earth, can
come up with quite a new and
interesting flavor. Something
similar might be said of the
central idea of Arthur Miller’s
“All My Sons,” Sydney Metro-
politan Theatre’s current presen-
tation.
The core of it is an old bone
if ever there was one —the war-
time profiteer who kills soldiers
by supplying them with imperfect
weapons—but, wherever it was
buried, Miller has dug it up with
fresh urgency and a good deal
of angry passion. The profiteer
in this case is Joe Keller, a small-
town manufacturer of parts for
aero engines who allows a batch
of defective parts to go out, and
so is responsible for a number
of crashes and deaths. Further,
when the trouble is sheeted home
to his factory, he slips the blame
so that his partner goes to jail
while he changes over to profit-
able peace-time manufacture of
pots, kettles and whatnot.
Miller works out his theme
with one of Joe’s sons killed
during the war, and the other
returning filled with a lot of those
high-toned ideals which play-
wrights commonly attribute to
soldiers. He is devoted to his
father, engaged to the daughter
of the imprisoned partner and
possessed of some almighty
virtues until his fiancee’s brother,
a lawyer, arrives and begins to
drag out the real story of Joe’s
perfidy.
Soldiers dying while profiteers
grow rich has been worked
almost down to a blunt instru-
ment by plays, films and books,
but Miller has sharpened the
theme so well so that his thrusts
go deep enough to produce a
twinge of guilt on behalf of
humanity in general.
It says a lot for Reginald Lye’s
performance as Joe Keller that
appreciation of it was not dis-
turbed by the memory of Ed. G.
Robinson’s excellent version in
the film of the play. Lye has his
own version—a mixture of
shallow joviality and small
shrewdness overlaid with a
human touch that seems to make
the figure suddenly and uncannily
familiar,
Brian Anderson was occasion-
ally a shade too vehement to be
convincing as the son, but be-
tween those lapses he took the
role well; June Salter as his
fiancee brought a good deal of
vitality and intelligent feeling to
the part; and Jean Anderson, as
Joe’s wife with a neurotic fixa-
tion about her dead son, haunted
the piece like a sad, grey ghost.
Joseph Scully’s production was
evenly good, except' for one or
two scenes of exceptional excel-
lence, and Ken Hannan’s sets
caught the atmosphere of the
back porch of the small-town
newrich.
* ❖ ❖
Hobart Royal
Better direction would have
helped E, V. Tidmarsh’s “Is
Your Honeymoon Really Neces-
sary?” at Hobart Royal, but the
three-act farce survived, anyway.
Charles Norman, in the lead,
played himself with moderate
success, Helen Franklyn was
not quite real as the second
wife and Michael Duffield’s
butler would have been more at
home in a melodrama.
Perhaps by contrast, Bobby
Mack as Frank Betterton, the
prudish lawyer friend, and
Jessica Noad, as the beautiful
but mercenary first wife, gave
excellent performances. The
scenes between them were the
best in the play.
Though the plot is thread-
bare, the author has taken pains
to dress it up, and has exploited
his situations to the full. The
current production needed better
direction, with attention to uni-
formity of style.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Smilin' Through”
In less skilful hands than
those of Helen Franklyn, who
produced the venerable comedy-
drama at Hobart Royal on
Saturday night, and who played
the dual roles of the ill-fated
Moonyeen and of Kathleen, the
rather stilted dialogue allotted
to her might have descended to
banality. But this dainty actress,
with a combination of vivacity,
charm and sauciness, put the
soft-pedal on the saccharine
sentimentality and made the
most of the comedy highlights.
She was well assisted by
Michael Duffield as the irascible,
adamantine Cartaret, and Bobby
Mack as his lifelong friend. Dr.
Harding, who did their damned-
est to dam the inevitable tear-
flow which the harrowing tale
of a lover’s perfidy evokes by
playing up their obstinacies and
quarrels.
Hal Rogers was both the fel-
low who bumped the bride off
and his more worthy son, and
Ronald Graham was suitably
self-effacing as the wretched
Wight, who stammered his pro-
testations of affection in vain.
Playwrights’ Advisory
Board
The suggestion made elsewhere
in this issue of The Bulletin —
that Australian novelists need
the guidance of an advisory
committee or board —is given
some point by the record of the
Playwrights’ Advisory Board, an
honorary Sydney organisation,
devoted to the advancement of
Australian stage playwrights and
their plays.
During the past 14 years the
board has read hundreds of
drama MSS. submitted for
technical criticism, negotiated
over 150 stage productions of
Australian plays and collected
royalties on behalf of the authors
(less 10 per cent, expenses
deduction), sponsored the pub-
lication of many Australian
plays, mostly full-length, and
conducted competitions for full-
length stage plays.
The P.A.B. will read stage
plays (not radio plays or film
scenarios) for ss. for a long script
and 3s. for a short one. If the
play is approved it will'be added
to a list of plays for which the
board arranges productions
wherever possible. Otherwise it
will be returned with helpful
criticism by the board’s readers.
Members of the board are:
Leslie Rees, Gwen Harrison,
George Cassidy, Beatrice
Tildesley, lan Maxwell, May
Hollinworth, O. D. Bisset, James
Pratt and Josephine O’Neill.
Producers looking for Aus-
tralian plays should write to the
board at Box 4220, G.P.0.,
Sydney. Full-length Australian
plays available include: “Tether
a Dragon,” by Kylie Tennant;
“The House That Jack Built,”
by George Farwell; “The First
Joanna,” by Dorothy Blewett;
“Mischief in the Air,” by Max
Afford; “Invisible Circus,” by
Sumner Locke-Elliott; “Awake,
My Love,” by Max Afford;
“Ned Kelly,” by, Douglas
Stewart; “Lady in Danger,” by
Max Afford ; “Granite Peak,” by
Betty Roland; “Sing for St.
Ned,” by Raymond Mathew;
“No Incense Rising,” by George
Landen Dann; “Over to
Mother,” by Phillip G. Mann.
Also: “Hail Tomorrow,” by
Vance Palmer; “Sons of the
Morning,” by Catherine
Duncan; “Caroline Chisholm,”
by George Landen Dann;
“Morning Sacrifice,” by
Dymphna Cusack ; “Daybreak,”
by Catherine Shepherd; “Red
Sky at Morning,” by Dymphna
Cusack; “Interval,” by Sumner
Locke-Elliott; “The Touch of
Silk,” by Betty Roland ; “Wives
Have Their Uses,” by Gwen
Meredith; “Quiet Night,” by
Dorothy Blewett; “Fountains
Beyond,” by George Landen
Dann; “The Explorers,” by
John Sandford; “Sky Without
Birds,” by Oriel Gray ; “Over-
proof Spirits,” by A. Ashworth
and P. Kelly ; and “Portrait of
a Gentleman,” by George
Far well.
Talkies
“Carrie”
Laurence Olivier’s voice and
his ability to identify himself
with the feelings of the character
he is playing make this Para-
mount adaptation of Theodore
Dreiser’s harrowing first novel
at the Australia, Melbourne, an
intensely living film. As the
manager of a fashionable St.
Louis cafe, he sacrifices every-
thing for love —wife, children,
money and position—and ends
up in the gutter.
Jennifer Jones, the girl for
whom he does it, is an un-
sophisticated factory-hand who
walks into his cafe to keep an
appointment with a young com-
mercial-traveller who is intent
on her seduction. Laurence’s
pity for her plight turns into a
passion similar to his rival’s, he
pinches the firm’s money, bolts
with the girl to another city,
contracts a bigamous marriage
in order to mollify her, gets the
wife he hates to divorce him by
giving her all his assets and then
finds he can’t get a job.
His new wife leaves him under
the delusion that it is she who
stands in the way of a reunion
with his family, and he ends up
in a frowsy dosshouse.
Olivier’s capacity for expres-
sing every nuance of his emo-
tions by voice and gesture
almost makes one sympathetic
to this besotted failure ; almost
—the final effect on this com-
mentator was of intense depres-
sion.
F. S.
Allbursts
A search for new subject-
matter has taken James Govett,
an ex-pupil of Max Meldrum,
from John o’ Groat’s to Land’s
End and from Dan to Beersheba,
as well as France, Italy, Spain
and Germany. He has also had
two 12-minute sittings from
Princess Margaret. The results
are hanging at the Athenaeum,
Melbourne.
The impression given by his
exhibition is that. Mr. Govett
has taken no more skill to his
last picture than to his first one,
and that it would have been an
advantage if he had equipped
himself with hobbles, artistically
speaking, so that he couldn’t go
so fast.


ONCE A SHEEP-
STEALER
by E.O. SCHLUNKE
IN the packed bar-room before
closing-time on a Friday
night.
A wiry, paint-stained man
with one blandly expressionless
eye fixed straight ahead and wide
open as a shop-window, the other
eye hedged and fenced about
by a camouflage of protective
wrinkles and full of a singular
fixity of purpose, detaches him-
self from a group, all more or
less distinctly labelled by their
clothing and their predatory
faces as belonging to the
building-trade. He makes what
is for a man of his type the
equivalent of a low bow ; that is,
he takes the cigarette out of his
mouth before speaking to the
first of two elderly gentlemen
who are trying to make their way
to the bar.
“Good evening, Mr. Sampson”
—with plenty of respectful
emphasis on the “Mr.”
Sampson, who looks a solid
grazier in both the physical and
financial senses, pauses reluct-
antly. He stares with a “What in
hell does a man like you want
to stop me for?” look on his
face, while his memory gropes
for the man’s identity in the
labored manner of the ageing
countryman. A man, his instinct
tells him, whom he has no par-
ticular reason to like or
remember.
“Is the paint I put on still
sticking to your house?” he jogs
Sampson’s memory.
“Ah, yes.” Sampson recalls
him suddenly, working on his
homestead with a carpenter’s
gang when he’d had the place
renovated some years back.
“Ah, yes. How’re you getting
on?”
Sampson attempts to close the
interview and get his drink, but
Willis has something vital to tell
him.
“I’m on my own now,” he says
eagerly. “Master - builder.
Ready to undertake any building
job.”
“Ah,” Sampson says,
guardedly now, because every
time he thinks of what that job
cost him he still bleeds a little.
“Money is no object to farmers,”
had been the expressed opinion
of the contractor he’d engaged
at that time ; the first boom wool
year.
“I believe you’ll be retiring
soon with all that money you're
making,” Willis goes on, a be-
guiling look coming into his
good eye. “You’ll be wanting a
house built in town?”
Sampson is startled. He has,
in fact, made only a few guarded
remarks to his wife on this
subject. He looks round defen-
sively, and sees all the other
tradesmen looking at him with
rapacious interest. He gives a
deprecating laugh.
“No hope of retiring ; Income
Tax Commissioner gets it all,”
he says, and struggles off bar-
wards.
“I only wanted to tell you I’m
on my own,” Willis repeats,
boldly holding on to Sampson’s
arm with his strong fingers, until
he’s made sure Sampson won’t
forget it,
‘< A BLOKE who was with
the carpenter at my
place,” Sampsoii apologises to
his friend Jenkins, another solid
countryman, dressed similarly in
a solid dark grpy suit; “not a
bad sort of fellow, very hard
worker.” He pauses, and then
says in an amused, half-
contemptuous voice, “He wants
to build me a house in town.”
Jenkins turns importantly to
his friend and makes an
arrogant throatal noise; the
sound of a man who has already
retired and built in tow/i, who
hence knpws everything.
“Stick to a reputable, estab-
lished builder who’s got some-
thing sound behind him,” he
dictates.
“I won’t do anything foolish,”
Sampson replies in tones that
let Jenkins know that he can
do without his advice. “I’ve
managed my affairs all right so
far.”
“No harm in talking it over
with a man who’s been through
it.”
“No, no. Of course not,” says
Sampson, with a restrained smile.
Then suddenly the smile dis-
appears from his face as he
remembers something that makes
him jerk his head up, and remain
with eyes fixed on the shelf of
fancy bottles which no one ever
drinks from, while he ponders,
with the greatest concern on his
face, if he should tell his friend.
“He talked an awful lot. Quite
funny usually; but one day he
let it slip that during the depres-
sion he was never short of meat
because he lived near the stock
saleyards, and could often sneak
a sheep from the mobs that were
left in the saleyards overnight.
Don’t know how I came to
nearly forget a thing like that.
Should have put the police on
to him straight away.”
THE two old graziers stare at
each other, stiffnecked with
the enormity of it. Then, as if
Willis might sneak up on, them
and get their well-stuffed wallets
if they didn’t keep an eye on
him, they turn their eyes across
the bar to the place where he
has rejoined jhe other trades-
men, all extremely jolly and a
trifle boisterous, like men a little
self-conscious about their sur-
prising prosperity, who can
hardly get used to the idea of
drinking without counting the
cost.
“A sheep-stealer,” Jenkins
says, bristling fiercely. “I
remember the days when my
father used to go after sheep-
stealers on horseback and belt
them with a stockwhip. That
was the way to deal with them.”
Sampson is still trying to
puzzle out why he hadn’t
remembered immediately that
Willis was a scoundrel, wrink-
ling his forehead and pursing
his mouth with its little white
moustache.
“Fact was, I got used to think-
ing of him as a steady, honest
worker before he told me that;
he was the only real toiler in the
gang, and that made me sort of
take to him. Always had a
cheerful word for me, and was
nice and respectful, too, the way
you don’t see many these days.
Somehow it didn’t sink in how
serious it was when he told me
about those sheep. Believe he
made it out to be a joke.”
“Stockwhip’s the thing,”
Jenkins says, still staring hard
at Willis. “My father had a
special horse for sheep-stealers.
It had one eye knocked out, and
couldn’t see very well out of the
other. If they showed fight he’d
just ride them down.”
SAMPSON stops his car in an
unfamiliar part of the town,
the newer working-men’s section,
across the railway-line from the
main business and residential
areas. After much earnest con-
sideration he locks the ignition,
puts the key in the special vest-
pocket so he won’t have to hunt
all over his suit for it, and
thrusts out one stiff leg after the
other. He stands beside his
costly car, looking disapprovingly
at tffe muddy, unpaved street,
feeling conspicuous among
droves of noisy children who
obviously consider the mud to
be their playground. His face
has the color of a man who has
to watch his blood-pressure, act-
ing under the duress of honest
indignation. Before he can make
up his mind quickly enough to
catch the attention of any of the
flying children, he is hailed by
the man he has come to find ; a
circumstance which should cause
him some apprehension if he is
calm enough to recall how
mysteriously a hawk always
appears in the sky as soon as a
young lamb wanders off on its
own.
“Hullo, Mr, Sampson,” says
Willis, trying to appear affable
and innocently helpful. “Can
I direct you somewhere?”
“I’m looking for you,”
Sampson replies bluntly.
“So the robbers haven’t got
you yet,” Willis allows himself
to look pleased, because
Sampson could easily think it is
for his sake. “You’re lucky.
Usually when a grazier
retires” There were no
words for it, he has to make a
gesture. ' Sampson nods.
“Exactly, like a flock of crows
round a sheep.”
“Ah, cripes,” says Willis,
shaking his head, as puzzled as
any old farmer. “I can’t under-
stand these fellows. They must
know the boom can’t last much
longer.”
“That’s right,” Sampson seizes
eagerly the unexpectedly easy
opening. “When it’s over people
will remember who robbed them
and who gave them a fair go.
Then the decent fellows will get
all the business.” He keeps
nodding his head at Willis to
make sure he is appreciating the
significance of the point.
“That’s what I think,” Willis
replies in perfect harmony.
“And there’s another thing I
always remember: what’s the
good of lying and cheating to
make a lot of money? You can’t
take it with you, now, can you?”
Sampson jerks his head up to
stare. He cannot credit his
fortune in meeting a man with
whom he might do important
business who believes this.
“Well,” he says, a trifle drily,
“you don’t seem to be the same
sort of builder as Matson. He
quoted me six-thousand for my
house. But I’ve worked too hard
all my life earning enough to
retire to want to be robbed by
fellows like him. That’s why I
came to see you, even though all
my friends say ‘You must go to
an established builder.’ ”
“Established builder.” Willis
looks as if that gives him a
nasty taste in the mouth. “Look
at that palace that Matson built
for himself; and those big
blocks of flats that he lets at
five pounds each; do you know
what he built them out of? The
money he swindled from retired
farmers.”
He is so indignant about it
that Sampson is full of silent
gratitude.
“But his money won’t do him
any good,” Willis continues with
gratifying vehemence. “He’s a
sick man. He’s giveh himself
ulcers sitting up all night trying
to think out new ways of rob-
bing people. They say he’s try-
ing to invent a kind of paint
strong enough to hold a house
up. Then he can take away
everything behind it.”
HE gives a wink of his wide-
open glass-eye to emphasise
the point of this peculiarly
builder’s joke, then decides to
elaborate it for a man so old as
Sampson.
“Do you know what I’ve seen
him do? He’ll put in flooring-
joists eighteen inches apart, bring
the owger to have a look, then
as soon as he’s out of sight he’ll
say to his men ‘Those floor-joists
are a bit too close together; rip
out every second one before you
nail the floor-boards over
them.’ ”
Sampson stares, shocked and
amazed.
“It’s the same with walls, ceil-
ings, door- and window-frames.
Anything you can’t see just isn’t
there. ‘As long as they don’t
fall down before I get my money’
—that’s his motto.”
Sampson continues to stare
speechless, but tremendously
appreciative of being let into
such awful trade secrets; as if
he considers that, knowing such
things, no one will now be able
to cheat him. In this mannci
friends are made and people
influenced.
“Would you like to come to
my place to look at some plans
and talk it over comfortably?”
Willis says at the appropriate
moment. “Not that I’ve got
much of a place to take you to.
Just an old rented weatherboard
cottage ; barely big enough to
keep my family dry when it
rains.”
Sampson is just about to agree,
when he is jogged by his faithful,
if somewhat fitful, memory. He
looks most earnestly into that
part of Willis’s face that he can
see most distinctly ; his guileless,
wide-open glass-eye. He says, in
a stiff, half-embarrassed manner,
a thing he has obviously well
rehearsed.
“Before I can go any further
with you, there’s one thing I
must clear up. You remember
about those sheep?”
“Sheep!” Willis is puzzled, but
still smiling and trying to be
helpful.
“Yes, yes, the sheep you stole
from the saleyards.”
Willis’s good eye opens its
window cautiously to see what
had better be done now.
“Mr. Sampson,” he says, with
sorrowful earnestness, “I’m glad
you mentioned that. Even
though I only did it once or twice
when I was out of work and my
children crying with hunger;
even though it was only crippled
or sick sheep thfc drovers had left
behind that I took, it’s still on
my conscience. That’s why every
time I do a job for a farmer or
a retired grazier like you, I say
to myself: ‘lt might’ve been one
of his sheep that I took, I’ll
reduce my charge to him by five
pounds,’ even though I suppose
in those depression days a sheep
like that wouldn’t be worth
five-bob.”
He has such a look of haggard
repentance that Sampson is
embarrassed for being the cause
of it.
“Ah, well,” he says, “I don’t
suppose you took any of my
sheep.”
“All the same,” Willis insists,
“I’ll certainly deduct five pounds
off my bill if I do any work for
you.”
He looks at Sampson’s face
hopefully.
“That will make it all right,
won’t it?” he pleads.
“Well, yes, I suppose it will,”
Sampson agrees, with some
reluctance at abandoning a
strong position.
SO they set off down the foot-
path, the honest tradesman
soon beginning to show signs of
elation and high spirits at being
seen by his acquaintances in the
company of a retired grazier-
with-intentions. They walk past
a number of uncompleted
houses, at which overalled men
work, mostly singly, with the
Saturday-afternoon industry of
men building their own homes.
“Hullo, Bert,” Willis says to
the first, pausing in mock
astonishment to run an apprais-
ing eye over a pile of building
materials. “Gripes, you must be
raking in the dough! A hundred-
and - fifty - pounds’ - worth of
louvres for your sleepout!”
He walks quickly on to evade
the reply which seems to be
welling up in the bucolic chest of
the homemaker ; then with con-
spiratorial unction he murmurs
to Sampson;
“That’s Bert Nillson, the job-
bing plumber. No wonder he
can build a house of his own
He charged a working-man two-
hundred pounds to do the


•1 "«L *
31
&
w
r
B
THE
Hi
tv>
TRACTOR
The /asf word in
efficient Tractor design
NTI3 .24.52
DISTRIBUTORS —
New Soutl, Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED Victe,i.: KELLOW.
FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: FLINDERS MOTORS LTD.
South Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED. Western Australia: | PARK LANE
MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD
ON-THE-JOB SERVICE , GENUINE SPARE PARTS
AND IMPLEMENTS ARE AVAILABLE FROM
AUTHORISED NUFFIELD DEALERS THROUGHOUT
THE COMMONWEALTH.
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., VICTORIA PARK, ZETLAND, N.S.W
wiww
VIfFELD
DEALER
m/i 6 mvpoim
that mahs h'Cf/tt f/onv joi/
First cost is lost cost when you invest in o
Nuffield Universal Tractor. Completely
equipped with (1) Power take-off; (2)
Swinging drawbar; (3) Belt pulley; (4) 3 - -
Linkage Hydraulic lift; and (5) and (6)
2-lever control hydraulic power unit, enabling
front and rear mounted implements to operate
independently, plus 5 forward speeds and full
electrical equipment, the Nuffield Tractor is
o "Task Force" in itself. It has all the power
of a 10-horse team, and amazing versatility.
Top speed is 18 m.p.h. and average fuel con-
sumption only 1% gallons per hour! If your
present implements are trailed, take your
Nuffield Tractor without hydraulics, and save
on the initial cost! This is the tractor for
you—
i ft tuts everyM/*#/
\ /t does o.¥e*yt&f*f /'
plumbing for his new house,
for labor only /”
Sampson turns round sharply
to familiarise himself with the
man. By this time Willis is
greeting the next homebuilder.
“Hallo, Jo, Gees, look, Mr.
Sampson! A two-hundred-quid
hot-water system going in! You
must be shearing them right
down to the skin, Jo.”
“That’s Jo Paris, the plasterer,”
Willis whispers to Sampson. “A
lot of these sorts up here. Just
tradesmen’s hands a year or two
ago ; now we call them the ‘hob--'
nailed capitalists,’ All on their
own and all on the make.”
The same sort of badinage
goes on all along the street of
this working-man’s suburb;
more intense talk about money-
making than Sampson has ever
heard among the reputedly-
wealthy. men of the town and
district in a year. Some of them
get back at Willis.
“When are you starting your
house, Willsie? You can’t tell
us you’re not stacking them away
on their edges.”
At which Willis glances at
Sampson in a most deprecating
manner, to remind him of the
immaculacy of his soul.
“When the next depression
comes I’ll still have work, while
you robbers will be sitting
hungry in your new houses.”
The house Willis occupies is
indeed small and shabby, over-
flowing with exuberant children
who have laid waste the yard
and smeared themselves, like the
little savages they are, with clay
from a pit they have dug. Mrs.
Willis is thin and discontented,
as she probably considers she
has a right to be, when she is
virtually the only woman in the
street who isn’t getting a new
house. Willis cuffs his way
through his children and dodges
past his wife to a rough work-
shop-office at the back.
“It’s a hard life, being the
mother of a large family,” he
says, as if he only remembers
such cheerless things when he
goes home. “She’s always at
me to buy that vacant block next-
door, but what hope have I got
of ever getting a house of my
own? As soon as I save up a
few quid one of the kids gets
sick, or they break half-a-dozen
windows, or one of her brothers
has to have bail and bang goes
the lot.”
“It would only be a worry,”
Sampson advises him fervently.
“I wouldn’t try it if I were you.”
THE next time Sampson and
Jenkins meet in town they
nearly don’t have a drink to-
gether. Jenkins pounces on
Sampson all solicitude.
“Don’t you know that Willis
has never built a real house on
his own? Don’t you know that
he’s only an odd-job man?” he
demands.
“I’ll get my house for two-
thousand less than yours cost
you,” Sampson retorts, “and it’s
a bigger house, too.”
“But he hasn’t had the experi-
ence ! How do you know he can
make a decent job of it? You’d
better change your mind before
it’s too late.”
“Wait until I tell you some of
the things your Matson does.
You’d better not bang any of
your doors, or your house might
fall down on you.”
“He hasn’t got the money to
buy the materials.”
“I’m buying the materials,”
loftily from Sampson. “Matson
made twenty-five per cent, on
the cost of the materials that
went into your house, and
another twenty-five per cent, on
the cost of the labor. I’m going
to Save all that.”
“It can’t be done,” is all
Jenkins can think of. Then he
remembers, “By cripes you’ll
have to watch him. He’s a sheep-
stealer, you know.”
“What are a couple of sick
sheep compared with twenty-five
per cent, of your five-thousand-
five-hundred pounds?”
‘ * D ETTER let me get the
J—' materials,” says Willis,
surveying with some pity the
results of weeks of work. “I’ll
do a lot better than this; I’ve
got connections, and I can get
you good discounts, too. Just
let me have your motor-lorry so
I don’t have to pay a carrier,”
Each time Sampson goes to
town something more has been
dropped at his block, but always
in disappointingly small
quantities. Sometimes he finds
Willis unloading from a big
truckload; but always the bulk
of the materials seems to be for
“another job of mine I’m going
to do next. Had to go all the
way to Albury to get these, and
last week I had to go to Wagga.
No sense in bringing your lorry
all that way half-empty, was
there, Mr. Sampson? Don’t you
worry about it though; your
lorry’s earning money for you
anyway,”
Every time he flashes dockets
in Sampson’s face, but before he
can get out his glasses Willis
says:
“Of course, these have to be
sorted out; they’re all in one
name and there’s things for half-
a-dozen blokes; plumbers,
plasterers and everybody
they’re all getting to depend on
your lorry, Mr. Sampson. But
I’ll give it all to you in black-
and-white one of these days.
Don’t you worry, Mr. Sampson,
I’m doing all I can for you.”
Then Willis shoots away with
the truck that Sampson seems to
own only on the days when it
has to go to the garage for petrol,
oil and greasing.
t ‘ A RE you keeping a check
** on the cost of each of
these things?” Jenkins demands,
looking up from his self-
appointed job of counting
Sampson’s bricks and measuring
his timber and full of the direst
suspicions.
“Of course.” Without meet-
ing his friend’s oversolicitous
eye, and thinking of Willis’s
unenlightening “progress”
accounts “Building Material
£300,” or “£400,” as the case
might be,
“What’s he charging you for
his time while he’s getting the
materials?” Jenkins wants to
know. “A pound an hour?
That’ll mount up to something
big over all these long trips!”
But whenever Sampson men-
tions things like that to Willis he
gets a reassuring answer.
“We’ll work all that out satis-
factorily, don’t you worry. I’m
using your truck, you’re using
mv time. But they’re only
details. It’s getting the materials
together that counts. Of course
I’ll have to tell you now that I'm
not getting all these things at the
cost we estimated. But I’ve got
to make up my mind quickly
when I see them; and I’m sure
you don’t want your house held
up just for the sake of some
little tiddly-winking thing or
other. That’s why I like doing a
job for a retired grazier ; I’m not
being delayed all the time by
someone whingeing about not
being able to afford a penny over
the estimate.”
Capital, capital, capital. Flow-
ing out all the time. And a
dreadful feeling that somehow he
is losing control of the situation.
The bigger the pile of material
and the larger the sum laid out,
the more he feels that he is in
the hands of the man who is to
stand it up for him. Control
and authority somehow lost
because he wanted to save money
by getting it done in an
unorthodox manner, because he
didn’t demand to see the right
figures at the right time, because
he couldn’t add them up quickly
enough when he did see them,
and couldn’t admit that he
wasn’t as smart as he thought he
was. Capital, capital, capital,
pouring out ruinously.
“For God’s sake, Willis, get
it done quickly.”
“Just got an urgent little job
to do first for a valuable old
customer; the rain’s coming
through his roof and spoiling a
valuable new carpet.” Or, “Just
teeing-up a few things for
my next job. Don’t want to be
out of work when I finish here,
do I?”
Just careless enough to let
Sampson know how easily he
could walk out on him at any
stage, and leave him the laughing-
stock of the retired community,
“It will save you time if we use
such-and-such instead of so-and-
so ; but of course it will cost you
more.”
“Do it, do it for God’s sake.
Only get it finished.”
More men and more men to
get it finished before he is com-
pletely ruined ; competent men
who have to be paid accord-
ingly ; who cost him two shillings
every time they roll a cigarette.
Then the electrician, the
plumber, the plasterer, the
painter.
“It should cost you so-and-so,”
Willis runs off glibly. “Couple of
hundred”; as if that was a
matter of loose change Sampson
ought to have in his pocket,
“Bloke in my street might do it
at a cut-price for you.”
“How much a point?”
Sampson asks the electrician.
“How much a point? Well,
that’s not how I do business;
not on a big house like yours,
anyhow. You’ll need miles of
wire, and copper-wire costs
nearly as much as gold these
days. You’ll see what it comes
to when you get my account. It
won’t be that much that it’ll
worry a retired grazier, anyhow.”
The other tradesmen all have
the same liberal ideas of what
they can charge a retired grazier ;
also a very nice sense of judg-
ment in calculating the limit
beyond which he will be sent
raving to the prices-com-
missioner.
Eventually the house is
finished Close enough to
finished for Sampson, to move
in, though it still lacks a garage,
brick fence, concrete paths and
a few other items which were
included in the original estimate,
now so fabulously low and
laughably fictitious.
“Ah, costs!” Willis says as
he presents his shocking
accounts. Thousands for
material, thousands for labor.
“They go up and up. It’s a mad
business. The Government
ought to stop it.”
By this time Sampson is past
querying anything. Above all
things he passionately desires to
get Willis paid-off, and put a stop
to the roaring cataract of expen-
diture that is eroding his life’s
savings.
“Anyhow, it won’t fall down
on me,” he says to Jenkins, who
turns up, too late, with a lot of
warnings about precautions to
be observed before making the
final payment.
“There’s a hell of a mystery
about it,” Jenkins insists. “Even
allowing for rising costs, you
should have had two houses for
what this one cost you.”
“It’s just inflation, or some-
thing,” Sampson assures him.
“The Government ought to do
something about it.”
J ENKINS is so excited he
comes rushing into Samp-
son’s new house without waiting
for his ring to be answered.
“Get your hat on quick and
come with me. I’ll show you
something. Ha, I knew he was
diddling you!”
He glares at Sampson for
gaping at him incomprehend-
ingly. “Come on! Come on!
Into my car. I’ll take you.”
Jenkins drives only the short
distance across the railway-line.
He stops his car with conspira-
torial caution not far from where
Sampson stopped his on another
Saturday afternoon so many
months ago. Now the street is
dry and dusty instead of being
muddy; the houses of the hob-
nailed capitalists are all finished
and apparently occupied for
some time, but the owners are
now busy adding the things
Sampson couldn’t afford to
have: garages, brick fences and
concrete paths. Sampson
observes the activity with the
utmost disillusionment.
“I paid for all those dxtras,”
he says.
Jenkins looks at him signi-
ficantly.
“Wait!” he says. “Now, can
you see Willis’s place? Do you
remember there used to be a
vacant block next door that his
wife wanted him to buy? Well,
can jyou see what’s going on
there?”
It is Willis building a house.
“I told you you’d paid enough
for two houses,” Jenkins says
with undeniable pleasure.
“There’s the other one.”
He puts a restraining hand on
Sampson.
“It’s no use having a big row
with him, and it’s no use taking
him to law because you can t
prove anything. It’s just like it
used to be with the sheep-
stealers. I’ve thought it all out.
Don’t let him know you’ve seen
him. There’s only one way to
deal with him.”
AT 2 a.m. on a very dark
night two elderly gentlemen
get out of an expensive car in
the working-men’s residential
area across the railway-line.
Their hats are pulled well down
over their faces, and their coat-
collars are turned up. Both carry
cans full of kerosene. They
move stealthily by a circuitous
route until they reach a new
cottage.
“Almost seems a pity to do it
now when it’s nearly finished,”
whispers one, as he commences
pouring out his kerosene.
“Yes, it would have hurt him
more if you’d waited until he'd
moved in with his furniture ; but
then you’d have been burning
things you hadn’t paid for.”
“That’s right, and by that time
it would have been summer, and
lighting fires in the open would
be prohibited. We don’t want to
do anything illegal, do we?”


The Pool of Electricity
J.C. Shelley
THE phone rang in the hall
for the second time in
twenty minutes. Mrs.
Baxter, half-way through
getting the children's tea,
frowned at its persistent shrilling
and was tempted to ignore it.
After all, she wasn’t paid to
answer it, and, nine times out of
ten when it rang after hours, it
would be a call out for Dan ;
somebody’s lights fused ; some
farmer without power and just
starting his milking or the
separating ; or wanting to water
a lucerne-patch and no power to
drive the motor. But she always
answered the phone. Doing her
best to be polite and sympathetic
regardless of her own feelings.
Secretly she aligned herself with
her husband, to do their best in
the interest of the job.
“Now, children, just sit there
quietly till I come back,” she
said to the two toddlers in their
high-chairs at the table. “And
don’t move, please.” She shoved
the saucepan back on the stove
and glanced out the kitchen
window, but there was no sign of
the cream-truck swinging in off
the street, so she went to the
phone with a little twinge of
annoyance in her mind. Early
summer was warm on the even-
ing air, and the shrill of cicadas
in the trees along the dusty street
was an invitation to be outdoors.
But with every dairy in
the district coming into full
summer production it was
amazing the number of
electrical faults that could
develop in dairies, particularly at
evening and about sunrise.
Urgent calls that kept Dan out
at all hours in an area roughly
three-hundred-and-fifty square
miles in extent, with the town its
hub. It was like as if he was a
doctor, she often thought. Only
worse. Doctors were paid for
a call out, but Dan wasn’t. It
was part of his profession to
give free service to consumers in
trouble.
The warm dry evening air
came down the hall, wrapping
her tiredness about her as she
took up the phone, and gave the
routine “district - mechanic’s
house,” with a forced cheerful-
ness that had earned her a niche
in the community.
The earpiece fairly stuttered.
She held it away so as not to be
deafened, roving through her
mind for a clue as to which
farmer this excitable voice
belonged ; saying firmly into the
mouthpiece. “No, I’m sorry,
my husband’s just been called
out to trouble at Lower Belford
and I don’t know when he’ll be
back.”
The caller’s voice reached a
new high. “For crisake, missus,
get ’old of ’im quick then! I
just got thrown on me blasted
back by that motor of mine and
I ain’t goin’ to go near it with a
forty-foot pole, so I ain’t!”
“Did you get a shock?” she
asked quickly, feeling that tight-
ness around her heart and the
sense of dread that always came
to her when a voice on the phone
mentioned shocks.
“Did 1 get a shock?” The
voice at the other end sounded
absolutely incredulous. “Hell,
missus, what’d’yer think I got?
A pint of beer with a ant in it?”
C<HE winced at the sarcasm, but
v wasn’t ruffled. Rural
characters were inclined to be
abrupt when upset. “Where did
you get the shock from?” she
asked, knowing it was better to
get as many facts as possible for
Dan. With a few facts to guide
him, he could save hours and
miles in a district where the
powerlines followed the river
farms, ducking from one side of
the river to the other, and the
biggest part of the lines were
miles from any road.
Shocks, she knew, came from
several sources ; people’s appli-
ances ; earth-faults along the
lines themselves ; wires down on
the ground or across fences.
Sometimes people reported
shocks on one side of the river
when the fault was on the other ;
and yet to reach one point from
the other could mean thirty to
forty miles travelling.
“I went down t’ switch me
blasted irrigation motor on,” the
voice complained bitterly, “and
the flamin’ thing jumped three
feet at me ’n’ threw me on me
back! J it ’urt!”
She frowned over that, trying
to sort reason from imagination.
“What did you touch?”
“J , woman, I didn’t touch
anythin’, I keep tellin’ you! It
jumped at me! Flamin’ three
feet it jumped at me! I’ve ’ad
it! Tell that husband of yours
t’ come right out ’n’ take them
flamin’ wires off me farm. 1
ain’t gonner ’ave anythin’ more
to do with this flamin’
’lectricity! ”
There was an angry bang as
the other receiver crashed on its
hook and Mrs. Baxter was left
with an inanimate phone, a sense
of the unreasonableness of the
world in general, and the know-
ledge that she didn’t know who
the complainer was.
She tingled the handle tenta-
tively until the girl at the
exchange answered. “Vera, could
you tell me who that was? He
hung up before I could ask.”
Vera was renowned for her
helpfulness. “It was Mr. Jones’s
number from Maison Due, Mrs.
Baxter. But it could have been
any of the other farmers using
it. Was every second word a
swear?”
Mrs, Baxter considered.
“Well . . . no.”
“Well, that wouldn’t be Bill
Thomas then. Did he sound like
as ff he was spitting?”
“Well, not exactly. But he was
very annoyed.”
“That could be Carl Jenkins !
Particularly if he had to clear his
throat often.”
Mrs. Baxter had an idea.
“Vera, he did blaspheme a lot.”
“Oh, then that’s Dave Norris.
He goes to church every Sunday ;
that’s where he gets that from.”
Mrs. Baxter went back to the
kitchen, jotted the call and the
time received on a slip of paper
kept for that purpose and fed
the children silently, putting
Dan’s tea into the oven to keep
warm and feeling a trifle spiteful
with the world. Maison Due was
in the opposite direction to
Lower Belford —a good twelve
miles from town —and she had
wanted to slip over to Mary’s
place for a while after tea while
Dan minded the children.
Naturally that was out now.
This was an urgent call. Shock
reports always were.
WHITE and dusty, the
* ’ gravelled road seemed end-
less, racing into the wide flare of
the headlamps, seeming to pause
a moment before being whipped
into oblivion in the darkness
behind the truck. In the rack
above the cabin the snubbed
ladders chuttered in their straps.
Loose gear, in the back,
drummed ceaselessly on the
floor. Baxter drove effortlessly,
his long lean body relaxed as
best he could with the thin sharp
pain under his heart that was
indigestion from the hurried meal
that Kay had kept warm for him
in the oven.
Norris’s farm was down the
end of a long, rutted lane, and,
when the gate swung up into the
headlamps with Norris standing
in the open portal barring the
way, Dan braked and pulled up.
A big, tall, untidy man, Norris,
with one of the best farms on
the river and a perpetual grouch
against everything. A pessimist
who secured his trousers with
both belt and braces. He loomed
bulkily against the darkness at
the side of the truck, growling
already “J , Dan, thought
you was never goin’ to get here.”
“I got here as soon as I could,”
Dan said evenly, not thinking of
the thirty miles to Lower
Belford that he had just got back
from, the hurried tea that had
given him indigestion, then the
drive out here. “What’s your
trouble, Mr. Norris?”
“I got plenty!” There was
this about Norris, when he
had a grievance he could air it
with justice to himself. “I went
down to water me lucerne and
that motor jumped six feet at
me! Fm tellin’ you, Dan, Fm
not goin’ to have any more
’lectricity on me farm! Cut it
off right now, ’n’ come ’n’ take
them wires away tomorrow. I
tell you, Dan, it ain’t safe havin’
that blasted stuff about th’ farm.”
“Let’s go down and have a
look at the motor first,”* Dan
said. “It could be just a small
fault, you know.” He didn’t, for
one moment, believe Norris and
his tale of the motor jumping
six feet.
“Fm tellin’ you to cut it off,
Dan! I won’t have the blasted
stuff on me place!”
“Well, all right, if that’s how
you want it.” Dan was agree-
able. “But I’ll have to go down
and disconnect it at the motor.
Coming?”
“J , Dan, I don’t know
whether I oughter. But I’ll go
for your sake, Dan. Case some-
thin’ happens to you. But I’m
tellin’ you right now, I’m
stoppin’ up on the bank. 1
wouldn’t go near that motor with
a forty-foot pole.”
They drove down across the
farm till the fence of the lucerne
paddock stopped them. Then
they walked across the young
lucerne, Dan’s torch cutting a
swathe ahead and his tool-bag
heavy from the shoulder-strap.
Underfoot the clods were dry
and brittle, and the young growth
lank for need of water. “Needs
water badly, Mr. Norris.”
“Course it does! I’m tellin’
you, Dan, if I don’t get water
for this patch before mornin’ Fm
ruined. I’ll ’ave to walk off me
place, that’s what it’ll amount
to. It’s all the green-feed I’ve got
for the ’erd. Do you think you
c’n do somethin’ with that motor
tonight, Dan?”
Dan smiled thinly, but kept his
real thoughts to himself.
Farmers . . . “I’ll do what 1
can, Mr. Norris.”
“If y’ do, son, I’ll be real
grateful. You got no idea what
it feels like to see ruin starin’
you in the face. If I don’t get
water for this patch before
mornin’ I’m ruined.”
He sounded genuine. To lesser
men than Baxter it would have
sounded as if he meant every
word of it. It sounded as if
another farm was about to be
walked off; another loss in
butter to say nothing of
saccalene, pigs and potatoes that
a hungry world wanted.
AT the bank of the river they
stopped. Forty feet or so
below them the water gleamed
palely in the light of the stars.
The steep bank looked dark and
treacherous.
“I’m not goin’ another step,
Dan!” Norris sounded as if he
meant every word of it.
Baxter listened. The stillness
of the night was heavy, and a
thin dew settled damply on his
bare head. Something in the still
river “plopped” loudly and was
gone; and a curlew, winging
across the opposite flats,
mourned eerily. He flashed his
torch up in the air until he
located the powerline, the three
wires like spider-threads in the
gleam of the torch.
The line came down across the
farm on high poles, went- over
the bank and down to a strain-
pole beside a small tin-shed that
housed the motor and pump on
a gouged-out ledge some feet
above the water. It had not been
necessary, he well knew, to come
down here to disconnect the
fault, for the meter and fuses
were in a box on a pole beside
the dairy. He had come down
in the hope of being able to fix
the trouble and give Norris water
for his lucerne.
The man, like so many of his
kind, was covering ignorance
with hostility. On the other hand
the lucerne badly needed water.
Baxter knew, too, that the
installation was a very old one,
erected in the days when earth-
faults were not a worry; this
type of installation was giving
more headaches now than it was
worth.
The bulk of rural “shocks or
tingles” on the hands when
touching metal arose from these
old reticulations. Theory laid it
down that a fault in an installa-
tion —such as a bare conductor
touching metal would track
back through the ground and
blow the fuse at the control-box.
But practice had long since
proved this false. Ija some areas
of the country, particularly in
sandy, dry soil, there often
occurred a non - conducting
stratum of ground barring the
path of escaped electricity in its
return to the control-panel. The
electricity would then lie on the
ground like a pool of water,
harmless enough when you were
standing on it or the ground
beyond the stratum.
Often this non-conducting
stratum was yards wide; some-
times only bare inches. It was this
latter that became the death-
trap, A beast or a human step-
ping over the stratum could
bridge it with their legs with dire
results. He guessed that some-
thing like this had happened to
Norris, only that, in his case, he
had been thrown backwards and
clear. The man would never
know how lucky he was.
Baxter had no illusions about
what lay ahead of him in the
next few minutes. He knew it
was safer to go back and switch
off the power, then locate the
fault with his instruments. But
that would take time, and he
wanted to get home. Kay had
sounded fed-up. She wanted to go
oyer to Mary’s place for a bit of
a break, and he thought she
deserved that, at least. If the
fault in the motor ran true to
form it would only be a matter
of minutes to fix it with the
power on. If he went up to the
dairy and switched it off and
went through the routine method
of location it would take the best
part of an hour, if not more.
Yet to go down over the bank
in the darkness and cross that
barrier of non-conducting earth
meant taking a risk ; a risk that
could prove fatal. He weighed
his chances quickly and thought
the risk worth taking. He could
be home inside the hour. Grip-
ping the torch and tool-bag
grimly he slid over the bank,
sliding down on his heels.
A PRICKLING sensation
rippled on his skin. He
realised he stood no chance now.
It was all a matter of luck ; a
matter of whether his judgment
could beat death. He jarred
heavily against the tin wall of
the shed, flicking his fingers
against it tentatively, realising
that he was still safe.
Norris’s urgent voice, thin in
the night air, came floating down.
“You found th’ trouble yet,
Dan?”
“Damn it, man, give us a
chance!” Baxter shouted, feel-
ing resentful and aware of the
film of sweat cold on his fore-
head.
“Wish you’d ’urry up,
then. I want t’ see some water
on that lucerne before mornin’.”
“So do I.” Dan shouted back.
But not just the way you mean,
he thought wryly,, prodding
around in the ground with the
leads of his test-lamp. In a
minute or two he located the
barrier stratum. It was roughly
nine inches wide and distant
from the shed by about four
feet; and he knew it was not
necessarily a circle, but could be
any shape, depending solely on
the vagaries of the barrier itself,
(i Continued on page 34)
The Four Drovers
High on the runnelled cliffs, beyond
Flood-level, above this river, lie
The four drowned drovers. Each hard mound,
White as sun-worn bone on the ground.
Like the unbroken bubble of a cry,
* Holds in its heart an unheard sound.
The coolibahs behind them, gnarled
But green-leaved, shade for the stream at their head—
Till noon swells up as the waters snarled—
Lean in dust where the billabongs swirled.
What rider could still that wild stampede,
Or ford or leap that widening world!
And this is their monument, this shallow
Quiet river that swept the whips
From their hands with a rising mob-like bellow.
A bushman found them; his long-handled shovel
Buried their cry and drowned blue lips
By the coolibahs, above flood-level.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


FOR PLEASURE IN LEISURE
-
m
m
\
M
iffi. ■
Tailored For
Your Comfort
Over the centuries, craftsmen,
expert in the art of Trouser
construction, have been seek-
ing to tailor the Ideal Trouser
for men. Gathering up their
experience and knowledge.
Stamina’s stylists have created
a Trouser that is literally
Tailored for your comfort.
You will enjoy the snug fit, the
smart appearance, but above
all, as you sink into your chair
you will enjoy the luxury of
the Tailored Comfort that is
the Joy of wearing Trousers
by Stamina. And here is
good news there is a pair
pre-tailored for 'You
ASK FOR
Stamina
SELF - SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
Obtainable from all leading Men’s Wear Stores
Tl-113
BOY BLOND
By C.S. BARRY
H' E has the lean, keen look
of a late-model Bren and
a profile made for sculp-
tors. He’s a strong boy,
blond, with a permanent shrug
and an imbecile varsity accent.
Composition boots swiped from
a dead Greek and ankle-pants
bowyanged at the hocks, then
strained into pedal-pushers.
“From Sydney I come,”
volunteers strong boy, blond.
Another sunburnt lifesaver with
a dear-water eye and big feet
made for gripping tiled rims of
swim-pools.
“Sure,” I say. Ought I care?
Indeed I ought. Survival in
my trade depends on care.
Stock-in-trade includes intimate
knowledge of short-cuts across
alpine frontiers. Knowledge ac-
quired during apprenticeship as
a contraband coffee-carrier;
supplying war - impoverished
Italy from Switzerland. Now,
while Allied forces drive German
troops into Northern Italy, I sell
my knowledge to customers who
wish to abandon Italy’s troubled
environment for Switzerland’s
peaceable, if somewhat anxious,
remoteness.
The German district-com-
mandant resents my trade, for
his Fatherland is thereby de-
prived of potential factory-
slaves, political captives, eligible
conscripts. Some local inhabi-
tants would restrict my activi-
ties because of patriotism, or
maybe because they envy my
success, or because they believe
I commercialise what ought to
be charity. On the other side
of the range Swiss frontier-
guards are not overjoyed by the
steady influx of passportless
guests.
“ A GUIDE I need,” says boy
■ blond.
“Guiding is dangerous,” I
remark. “With guns it’s fatal.”
“Souvenirs they are.” He
takes weights from pockets and
his shoulders straighten per-
ceptibly. My heart churns. An
oily Luger and a hand Walther.
“No guns,” I advise. That
stuff is strictly for children.
Walthers have more kick than
straight Strega in schooner
draughts.
“No guns? No deal.” That’s
a new one on me.
“No deal,” I agree.
Souvenirs go back into
pockets. Shrugs go back into
shoulders. I drag my chin off
my chest.
“Alone I go,” says boy
blond.
“Try the Pyrenees.” I haven’t
much energy for conversation
because I haven’t much energy.
After two mountain nights on
the Macugnaga-Saas Grund
coffee circuit I’m fresh as mother-
in-law gags. I have chafing
leather shorts, a rucksack over-
weight with coarse bread, baked
chestnuts and Bologna sausage
and a carved pipe I can’t afford
to fill.
Instead of plodding onward,
upward, boy blond follows me
into the osteria. A handsome
escort. Outside it is deathly
cold. Bora blizzard pouring off
permanent ice; cracking lips,
numbing thought-processes. In-
side it is deathly cold. The
osteria is designed on the
assumption that summer is
always.
Boy blond stays at my elbow.
Nervously. We say nothing to
each other. Loudly.
fWERIA CEPPO MORELLI
is redolent with ewe’s-milk
ricotta and vino di casa. Sibil-
ant with solemn eaters untang-
ling spaghetti, munching gnocchi,
ravioli, fricasseed frogs’-legs.
One scabrous crone extracts
liquid egg-contents with appre-
ciative sucking sounds. Senza
poesia, as the Italians say. Boy
blond’s complexion switches to
Granny Smith green.
Bored customers gaze through
curtainless panes at nothingness.
Trying to decide what it looks
like. Shivering. Not only with
cold. Afraid of being sold.
The signorina hostess is a
crackerjack surprise and the
neatest I’ve seen. I’ve seen lots
of hostesses. A fruity cutie on
beauty duty.
“Daughter of the stars,” I
vocalise. I have a respectable
polished approach. Like a well-
kissed madonna’s nose.
Boy blond rolls a sleet-spat-
tered eye at her. She sighs wist-
fully. I groan disgustedly.
“Have some salt,” I tell her.
“Have a drink,” she tells me.
Rough salt in canvas pockets
succeeds where polished ap-
proach failed. Soon I notice we
wear goblets in our fists. Some-
thing to think about while talk-
ing. Between us is a spherical
flask in a raffiawork dirndl with
hand-carved stopper, an operatic
label relevant several headaches
ago ; a long neck for a handle
and happy flowing chuckles.
Signorina has sting, too. Un-
daubed wet-red lips and what
looks like twin orvieto flasks as
a chest-comforter. Unnerving,
She is. As a Neapolitan bus-
driver in a double-fisted dia-
logue. She supports a beaded
brocaded cummerbund; stiff,
tight and high like an all-night
drinker. Boy blond gives her
the lean, keen look. Her eyes
sparkle demurely like Asti spu-
mante in handcut crystalware.
The drink I sip. The girl I
tip. This is the pre-atomic age
when ten per cent, was adequate.
“Boy blond comes from Syd-
ney,” I tell her.
“You meet Americans every-
where,” she tells me.
‘DELOVED of kings,” I
I—' address her. From long
practice in saying the wrong
thing. “Any business?”
“Beg your pardon?” She
stiffens. Manpower is not that
short.
“You misunderstand.”
“Good.” She is world-wise
with nice thighs, right size.
Clear eyes and sweet sighs,
“Pearl of the orient,” I get
trumps out first. “Cigarette?”
Smuggled smokes gorged with
genuine virginia-leaf in gloss-
finished cellophaned F. 1.8.
packs. Not local dessicated
cabbage stuffing paranoic paper
twists jostling in dun Popolare
packs. I strike the long match,
cup it for seconds and stop
breathing while sulphurous
flame erupts. She inhales right
down to the bottom of the prob-
lem and smiles.
“Business is bustling,” she
murmurs. She introduces me to
customers. I meet Torino
suburbanites refugees from
American pinpoint bombing.
Political agitators having holi-
days from strife. Two escaped
Yugoslav prisoners. A hotfoot
Hauptmann ducking a date with
the Eighth Army. Smitten kit-
tens and pampered vampers
from Milano’s Frenchified alber-
gos. Lees from the wine of
society. Up to a week ago they
lived like Roman candles. Now
they dodge ricefield conscription
for females. They tell me awry
stories. I tell them nice prices.
There’s money in misery. Sal-
vation sells like fully-fashioned
nylons.
“Five hundred lire,” they
correct me. Horrified.
“Five thousand,” I correct
them. “Pair of boots will do.”
“Mercy,” they say.
“In advance.”
“Any danger?”
“If we don’t try we can’t
win.” Always a penetrating
observation on the tip of my
tongue. “Have a drink.” Soon
the flask is empty as vacant
looks.
STRONG boy, blond, accosts
me again. Excited by the
others. “I jumped a prison-
train at Pontelagoscuro,” he
recites.
“Perbacco! ” I’d have the
same reaction if he told me
Garibaldi died.
“Walked six weeks to get
here,”
“Terrible,” I say. “Five
thousand, please.” If it’s con-
flict between money-and morals,
morals come last. We must
respect our vocation. Obtaining
what you want in this locality
is troublesome and devious. Are
you prepared to pay for that
trouble to be taken? Benissimo.
It will be arranged. Life is
never uniform and grey.
Night falls, wind drops, heads
droop, spirits sag.
“When do we go?” the cus-
tomers ask.
“Soon, We travel nights to
avoid hotel expenses.”
Chill-stiffened customers tie
bundles, organise luggage, tell
beads, chatter emotionally. A
newcomer arrives and conversa-
tion bogs down like an Italian
blitzkrieg. Signorina escorts a
Napoleon hat trimmed camou-
flage-grey, a vaudeville sword
snared in black cord, a harness
of paunch-pouches packed with
scatter-slugs and a Beretta point
o Continued on page 34)


The Department of
TECHNICAL EDUCATION
New South Wales
offers through the
CORRESPONDENCE TEACHING
DIVISION
sound and modern training by correspondence instruction in
a wide range of subjects.
Promotion and success depend upon your ability to keep in
touch with up-to-date methods and modern trends. Home
study courses will open up new interests and enthusiasms as
well as lead to
Efficiency Promotion Success
Any person, other than those of school age, who by reason of
remote place of residence, hours of employment or physical
disability, CANNOT ATTEND Technical College Classes, may
apply for enrolment in any one or more of the following
courses:—
Art.—Object (Still Life) Drawing,
Figure Drawing. Freehand Draw-
ing, Dressmakers’ Art, Display
Card Writing, Ticket Writing.
Commerce. —Bookkeeping, Com-
mercial English, Commercial
Principles, Accountancy, Auditing,
Commercial Law, Income Tax
Law and Practice, Banking,
Finance and Foreign Exchange,
Cost Accountancy, Company
Secretarial Practice, Economics,
Bankers’ Institute, Commercial
Correspondence, Shorth a n d,
Typewriting.
Local Government. —Local Gov-
ernment Town and Shire Clerks’
Certificate, Local Government
Auditors’ Certificate.
Public Health.— Health Inspec-
tion, Meat Inspection.
Surveying. —Certificate Course.
Public Examinations. —Specific
tuition is provided for the fol-
lowing public examinations: Cer-
tificate Entrance, Qualifying ex-
amination (Degree and Diploma
Courses) N.S.W. University of
Technology and Department of
Technical Education; Inter-
mediate and Leaving Certificates;
Matriculation to University of
Sydney; Nurses’ Entrance;
Police Entrance.
General Education. —Correspond-
ence instruction is available in a
comprehensive range of subjects
at Secondary level, i.e., approxi-
mately from Ist year to Leaving
Certificate standard. Full details
may be obtained upon applica-
tion.
Building Trades. —Building Con
struction, Carpentry and Joinery
(Theory, Calculations, Drawing
and Trade Practice).
Electrical Trades.—For appren-
tices and journeymen. Overhead
Electric Linesmen.
Engineering Trades. —Fitting and
Machining, Automotive Mech-
anics, Refrigeration (for appren-
tices and journeymen), Steam
Engine Operation, Steam Boiler
Attendants’, Gas Engineering,
Diesel Engine Operation, Motor
Maintenance (for owners and
drivers of motor vehicles). v
Printing Trade s. —Composing,
Printers’ English and Arithmetic,
Linotype Operation, Bookbind-
ing, Letterpress Printing Theory
and Mechanism (for apprentices
and journeymen).
Marine Engineering.—lst or • 2nd
Class Marine Engineers’ Certifi-
cate, Part A.
Sanitation.— House Drainage,
Sewer Plumbing, Water Plumb-
ing, Gas Fitting.
Home Handicrafts.—Dressmak-
ing, Millinery, Dressmakers’ Art.
Rural.— Agriculture, Care of
Animals, Pig Raising, Poultry
Farming, Sheep and Woolclass-
ing, Dairy Technology, Dairy
Farming, Bee Keeping, Farm
Mechanics (including Farm
Machinery, Farm Science and
Farm Arithmetic), Farm Manage-
ment and Farm Economics, Farm
and Station Bookkeeping.
ENROLMENTS MAY BE EFFECTED AT ANY TIME-
INSTRUCTION IS CONTINUOUS THROUGHOUT EACH YEAR
All Trade and Certificate Correspondence Courses follow the same
Syllabus and prepare students for the same examinations as
Technical College Oral Courses.
Special lectures and practical demonstration sessions at SYDNEY
TECHNICAL COLLEGE are arranged every year for correspondence
students enrolled in trade and certain other of the above courses.
PERSONS RESIDING IN THE SYDNEY METROPOLITAN AREA
OB IN A COUNTRY TOWN SERVED BY A TECHNICAL
COLLEGE SHOULD APPLY FOB ENROLMENT IN THE
APPROPRIATE ORAL CLASSES
Fees moderate —Details available on application
MAIL COUPON FOR SYLLABUS
TO: The Officer in Charge, Correspondence Teaching Division,
Department of Technical Education, 45-47 Broadway, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, full details of the
• Correspondence Course,
NAME (IN BLOCK LETTERS)
ADDRESS
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO NOEL HENRY PEARCE and VIOLET
YON SENDEN late of Mount Isa in the
State of Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE
that NORMA AGNES PEARCE has filed
a Petition No. 3528 of 1950 praying for
Divorce from NOEL HENRY PEARCE on
the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or ex-
cuse and of adultery with VIOLET YON
SENDEN If you NOEL HENRY PEARCE
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 9th day of
March 1953 You the said VIOLET VON
SENDEN may apply to the said Court
to be allowed to defend Either of you
may obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from R. W. FRASER &
PARKINSON, Solicitors, 51 Oastlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHAN GOTTLIEB THEODOR
LINDNER late of Lidcombe. —TAKE
NOTICE that RUBY CONSTANCE
LINDNER has filed a Petition for Di-
vorce No. 2659 of 1952 on the grounds
of desertion without any cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 2nd
day of March 1953 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSIEURS HERALD, BRUCE BRIER-
LEY & ENGLAND, Petitioner’s Solicitors,
109 Pitt Street, Sydney. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
TUANS WOULD A/UUNff
is the ONLY airline to offer you
Super (Constellations
m
to carry you in luxury from San Francisco or
Los Angeles to New York en route to London's
SUPER CONSTELLATION FEATURES:
• Most spacious planes in
commercial operation—
-744 square feet of floor
space.
• Seats 64 passengers, plus
8 sleeping berths.
• Luxury lounge for pas-
sengers* comfort.
9 Most advanced 4-engine
equipment gives greater
Literature supplied on application
to any approved travel Agent, or
TWA, Kembla Building, 58
Margaret St., Sydney. BX 1219.
range—3,2so miles cruis-
ing at 20,000 feet.
# Pressurised and air-con-
ditioned cabins give low
altitude comfort.
Outstanding cuisine.
S 3
WO** 0
r»***
10*0"
ASK FOR TWA SUPER CONSTELLATION SERVICE ACROSS AMERICA
SCC.6
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of poem “Not Understood.”
—5414.
To buy copy of Letters of a Self-
made Merchant to His Son. —5415.
To buy copy of The Bulletin Re-
citer. —5416.
Information Sought
(1) In what year did Handel com-
pose “The Messiah”? (2) In what
year was it first played in London ?
(3) When and how did the custom of
standing up during the singing of the
“Hallelujah” chorus from that ora-
torio originate?
(1) It was begun on Aug. 2, 1741,
and finished on Sept. 12 the same year.
(2) On Mar. 23, 1743. (3) It dates
from,, its first London performance,
when its effect was so overwhelming
that, at the phrase “For Lord God
omnipotent reigneth,” King George II
rose to his feet, and remained stand-
ing until the end of the chorus, his
action being followed by the whole
audience. Since then to stand has
become accepted custom.
* * * ♦
(1) When did Sir Otto Niemeyer
and Professor Gregory arrive in Aus-
tralia? (2) What, briefly, did they
advise? (3) To what extent were their
proposals adopted?
(1) July, 1930. Sir Otto Niemeyer
was the representative of the Bank of
England and Prof. Gregory was
Cassel Professor of Banking, London
Uni.; their visit arose out of con-
sultation with the Bank of England
and other financial authorities with a
view to finding a solution of the grow-
ing difficulties of providing exchange
to cover Australian payments over-
seas. (2) In a nutshell, their pro-
posals amounted to the necessity for
Australia to live within its income.
The Commonwealth and State Gov-
ernments had all had Budget deficits
for several years; the nation’s external
debt was great, and it was faced with
the immediate prospect of honoring
heavy maturing commitments. The
balance of trade was unfavorable,
prices of wheat and wool exports were
declining and, as a result, the ex-
change position had deteriorated. The
national income had very substanti-
ally diminished. Sir Otto Niemeyer’s
main proposals to adjust Australia
to the world economic position were:
to increase the rate of productivity
per head, to improve efficiency, to
reduce costs to ensure the increased
per-capita output, and to expand
primary production (as a means to
exchange-improvement). (3) The pro-
posals were embodied in the Premiers
Plan of June, 1931, adopted by the
Commonwealth and all the State
Governments. Points in the plan were
a 20-per-cent, cut in all Governmental
expenditure, increased taxation (to
give greater revenue) and reduced in-
terest-rates on deposits, advances and
fixed-interest securities.
* * * *
(1) Meaning of following electrical
terms —(a) volt, (b) ampere, (c) wait ?
(2) Can a six-volt accumulator be
charged from a 12 -volt dynamo ? (3)
Can a 12 -volt accumulator be charged
from a six-volt dynamo ?
(1) (a) Unit of electrical pressure or
electromotive force; (b) unit of elec-
tric current; (c) unit of electrical
power. The power, in watts, is
obtained by multiplying volts by
amperes. (2) Yes, if a suitable resist-
ance is placed in the circuit whose
value will depend upon the charging-
rate. (3) No; the charging voltage
must be appreciably greater than the
accumulator voltage,
* * * ♦
Brief account of the life of Saladin,
Richard Coeur-de-Lion’s enemy in the
third crusade?
A Kurd, born in 1137, he took part
in expeditions to Egypt in the ser-
vices of Nur-ed-dm, sultan at Bagdad,
and was appointed vizier, but about
1171 constituted himself sovereign of
Egypt. In 1174, on the death of Nur-
ed-din, he declared himself sultan, and
was recognised as liege by most of
the Moslem princes. He preached a
Jehad, or Holy War, as a counter-
crusade, and in 1187 recaptured
Jerusalem from the Christians. His
success caused alarm, and led to the
third crusade (1189). In 1191 Acre
fell into the hands of Richard and
Philip II of France, and Jaffa and
Caesarea were also retaken, but Sala-
din was able to retain possession of
Jerusalem. He died at Damascus in
1193. Both Saladin and Richard were
obsessed by the idea of knightly gal-
lantry, which mitigated to some ex-
tent the religious bitterness of the
time and which has come down to us
as story and legend.
* * * *
What is the Rosetta stone, and why
is it famous?
The Rosetta stone is an inscribed
slab of black basalt, which provided
the key for the decipherment of
hieroglyphic writing. It was discovered
in Aug., 1799, near the Rosetta mouth
of the Nile (a few miles from Alex-
andria), by a French artillery-officer.
Napoleon ordered that it be deposited
for study at the French Institute in
Cairo. When Egypt capitulated to
Britain in 1801, the stone was shipped
to England, and was put in the
British Museum, where it still is. It is
3|ft. long, 2')ft. wide and Ift. thick.
It has inscriptions in three different
scripts —the two top scripts are in
Egyptian (one in hieroglyphics, the
other in demotic writing, which was
the popular form of ancient Egyptian),
the other one in ancient Greek. It
was inferred that the three scripts
were different forms of the same text;
the Greek was readily translated, and
used as a key. Still, the translation
of the other two was no easy task;
main credit for the decipherment be-
longs to a Cambridge scholar, Dr.
Thomas Young (1773-1829), and a
French Egyptologist, Jean Francois
Champollion (1790-1832), the latter
of whom announced in 1822 the com-
plete translation, and thus gave the
world the key to the ancient Egyptian
hieroglyphics.
* * * *
Is boxer Ray Robinson white or
colored ? Where was he born, and is
Robinson his right name ? When did
Robinson begin boxing? What
championships did he win, and who
beat him for those championships ?
“Sugar Ray” Robinson is an Ameri-
can negro, born at Detroit, Mich., in
1921. His real name is Walker Smith.
He began boxing as an amateur in
1939, when he won the New York
Golden Gloves featherweight cham-
pionship. After winning, the New
York Golden Gloves lightweight cham-
pionship in 1940, Robinson turned
professional, and kayoed Joe Eche-
verria (round two) in his first profes-
sional fight on October 4, 1940. When
Marty Servio vacated the world welter-
weight championship, because ot a
nose injury, Robinson became recog-
nised holder of that title after out-
pointing Tommy Bell in 15 rounds at
Madison Square Garden, New York,
on December 20, 1946. Robinson
had to relinquish this world title to
fight Jake La Motta for middleweight
honors in Chicago on February 14,
1951 when he stopped La Motta m
13 rounds. Robinson also resigned
from this world title to fight Joey
Maxim for world light-heavyweight
honors in New York on June 25,
1952, when Maxim stopped him in
round 13. Robinson has since an-
nounced his retirement from boxing
in order to devote more time to his
businesses and his dancing (television)
career.
Brief Answers
pjsf.: Removal of mould from your
watercolor should be left to an ex-
pert restorer. However, to prevent
mould, the watercolor could possibly
be remounted, using a substitute for
paste, as this paste often encourages
growth of mould... .K.M.: Second-
hand-booksellers as a rule prefer to
see the copy before making a valua-
tion. Submit book to Tyrrell’s, 281
George - street, Sydney J.L.C.:
Moreland Metal Co., 78 O’Riordan-
street, Alexandria, N.S.W TJX:
No Australian publisher at present
publishing on that basis... .F.P.:
Australian Club, 165 Macquane-
street; N.S.W. Club, 31 Bligh-street;
Union Club, 2 Bligh-street—all Syd-
ney. ~ .N.McA.: The Commonwealth
Solar Observatory is at Mt. Stromlo,
on a ridge of hills about seven miles
west of Canberra. The highest point
is 2560 ft. above sea-level, or about
700 ft. above the general level of Can-
berra S.D.: The office of admiral,
borne by Luis de Torres, was inferior
to that of Fernandez de Quiros, who
was captain-general —on their voyage
of discovery in the pacific....
K.A.W.; Write Technological
Museum, Harris-street, for
pamphlet on the subject... .J.T.P.:
J. B. Chandler, 93 York-street, Sydney.
W.H.M.: To find the weight of a
cubic foot, multiply 62.3211 b. by the
specific-gravity of the substance. To
find the number of cubic feet in one
ton, divide 35.943 by the specific-
gravity... .S.K.: Try A. C. Campe,
stamp-dealer, 25 Royal Arcade, Syd-
ney L.8.H.: The matter is entirely
one for the police, who may prosecute
or not as they see fit. “Smith” should
be wary, or he may become involved in
the compounding of a felony J.W.:
Get in touch with the A.8.C., Adel-
aide, or any of the leading music-
stores in that city Arthur S.:
Werther is the hero of Goethe’s
romance “The Sorrows of Werther”—
a young man who falls in Jove with
Lotte, the wife of a friend, and takes
his own life. Hence, Werthcrian
means “morbidly sentimental”
T.L.: Seaforth Mackenzie’s novelette
“Little Miss Model” appeared in The
Bulletin of Oct. 29, 1952... .J.R. :
J. B. Chifley was Prime Minister from
July 13, 1945, to December 19, 1949.
... .A.N.W.; Eatanswill is the name
of the pocket-borough described in the
election episode in Dickens’s Pickwick
Papers... .N.J.; India was proclaimed
a “Sovereign Democratic Republic”
on Jan. 26, 1950. Dr. Rajendra
Prasad was the first President of the
republic. However, India is still con-
sidered within the British Common-
wealth of Nation's... .V.J.R.: Colum-
bus Day is Oct. 12, the day Columbus
discovered America. It is a legal
holiday in a lot of the States of
the U.S.A., some of the West Indies
and many Latin-American repub-
lics. It is also called Discovery Day.
J.H.C.; Age-qualifications for
old-age pensions are —Males 65, or, it
permanently incapacitated for work,
60 years; females 60... .F.K.McD.:
Jamaica (discovered by Columbus in
1494) was a Spanish possession until
taken in 1655 by the British, whose
possession was confirmed by the
Treaty of Madrid in 1670 P.D.D.:
Commonwealth assistance to the par-
tially-deaf is available for school-
children and pre-schoolchildren only.
The only adults for whom assistance
is available are ex-servicemen, through
the Repatriation Department. There
is in Brisbane the Australian Associa-
tion of Better Hearing, which assists
the partially-deaf.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
E.W.D.: Your bathtub story may
hold water, but it won’t wash
G.M.: Much too cosy H.V.C.:
“Killed by Kindness” was better so;
we’re considering the other... .E.H.:
Something there, but it’s too hazy.
W.A.S.: “The Intruder” might
have been asked to stay, but there
were brighter visitors... .1.F.G.: A
good story, but you have not made
the most of it....N.D.: Storm in a
teacup.... G.A.P.: Inexpert love-
making. .. .F.S.: They say people will
always read a story about a racing-
system, but we’re taking a risk and
rejecting yours C.S.: Trite... •
A.D.; Schoolgirl fancies f.W.:
The sort of thing one would look
for in the back of an afternoon paper
among the sporting.... J.A.: It
cricket produces, writing like that it’s
no wonder it’s declining... .J.M.:
Well, it’s an improvement on your
previous efforts, but that’s as far as
we’ll go J.K.: You don’t take it
beyond platitude P.K.F.: You
have loaded a popgun with cordite.
M.M.F.; A good nightclub story
doesn’t need all those coincidences.
... .C.A.A.: Next to baby-talk we
can’t stand fantasy-talk with its comic
names and endless smirk P. 8.:
Not bad, but just now we’re out of
sympathy with misunderstood children.
J.B.: Dr. Evatt himself never
plotted more intricately, or to so
little purpose.... W.W.: It’s quite
good, but the ready-made sympathy
story can never take the place ol
action... .J.S.L,: You certainly know
your subject, but your story is a
over the place... .K.H.: Hardly a
memorable conversation.... R.M.8.:
To make an incredible story readable
you need at least some literary skili.


Now available on
heavy, white,
super-calendered
paper —
"BILLY-
Cartoon .
History
by
LOW"
Price, Is. 6d., post-free,
from
The Bulletin,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney
Box 55a, G.P.0., Melbourne
Box 569 J, G.P.0., Brisbane
Australian Historical Sketches
Wild Doings
At Castle Hill
By M. H. ELLIS
DURING the first decade
of the 19th century the
Government of N. S.
Wales had little chance to
forget the Irish. There were a
lot of Irish here, and there were
two kinds of them.
One kind consisted of patriots
with no criminal records who
had been sent out, some of the
batches as the aftermath of the
Vinegar Hill affair. The rest
were criminals, often scrapings
of the jails, ignorant and ready
for anything. They were a very
violent element.
Since the days of Phillip there
had been many a threat to the
peace of the colony through
these elements. It was a poor
month that somebody did not
come to Government House
whispering rumors of plots and
hidden arms.
There was talk early in Sep-
tember, 1800, which led to an
inquiry about a plan to rise and
kill poor Governor King and
confine Governor Hunter. It
was said that many of the
soldiers of the N. S. Wales
Corps were ready to join and
“take the guns to South Head.”
It was proposed that a ship with
a rebel envoy be sent to France.
And it was added that there
were “plenty of pikes made.”
Large Hibernian persons were
to be heard in dark corners
whispering “Arrah, an’ have ye
heard the ditty?” And it was
reported that there were secret
signs by which conspirators
would be known, one party clos-
ing the fingers of the left hand
on the forefinger of the right
and winking ominously, and the
other responding appropriately.
It was soon taken for granted
that everybody was going to be
murdered with “pikes and great
big sticks,” and a witness came
in with the positive information
that “a hutkeeper, an elderly
man with black hair at Parra-
matta,” whose name the witness
said he “knew not,” had related
that “a number of pikes were
already made and secreted at
Pearce’s farm and also at Syd-
ney.”
From all this it arose that a
committee of fazed military
officers held a most garbled
seance with some numbed .wit-
nesses and deduced “various un-
warrantable consultations and
seditious meetings” tending to-
wards “a serious revolt and con-
sequences the most dreadful.”
They promptly secured a num-
ber of Irish, including “General”
Joseph Holt, about the mildest
rebel-leader ever born, who was
alleged to have gabbled of the
desperate acts he had committed
in Ireland and of how he had
shot his own brother. These
captives, though untried, the
officers characterised as “de-
linquents of the most dangerous
principles and character, and
ought indiscriminately to be ex-
tirpated or removed from this
part of the country.”
They recommended that five
of them receive each 500 lashes
before being sent with their fel-
lows in prospective rebellion “to
a distant and remote part of the
territory by the most speedy
conveyance... .to prevent the
iniquitous tendence of their dia-
bolical schemes being dissemin-
ated amongst other ignorant and
deluded convicts.” A few others
were to have 100 lashes, and the
unfortunate priest Harold, who
seems to have given informa-
tion to the authorities but re-
fused to turn informer on indi-
viduals or give details, was to be
present as a culprit to see the
cruel sentences inflicted.
The whole findings were
hysterical and only what might
have been expected. Not a pike
had been seen. The evidence
was mainly gossip. Holt, even
despite the prejudice against him,
was found by the Governor to
be innocent.
All through September the
search for arms went on. The
members of the Loyal Associa-
tion, our first volunteers, stood
ready to serve their country;
but at the end of the month the
Reverend Samuel Marsden, the
principal chaplain and magistrate
at Parramatta, could only report
that “we have not been able to
come on any of the pikes yet;
whether we shall or no is uncer-
tain.” He had found the wit-
nesses whom he lined up and
from whom he sought to extract
confessions “an unaccountable
set of beings.... it is difficult to
prevail upon any of them who
are accused to say a single
word.” And be it said that Mr,
Marsden as an examiner of wit-
nesses had “a way with him”:
Mr. Atkins and I ordered him
,[a youngster named Galvin] to be
punished very severely in hopes of
making him inform where the pikes
were. Though a young man, he
would have died upon the spot be-
fore he would tell a single sentence.
He was taken down three times —
punished upon his back, and also
upon his bottom when he could re-
ceive no more on his back. Galvin
was just in the same mood when
taken to hospital as he was when
first tied up, and continues the same
this morning. He is not in a situa-
tion to be sent down to Sydney yet.
I am sure he will die before he will
reveal anything of this business.
Holt, who was forced to watch
this “punishment,” declared that
the boy was 20 years old ; that
after he had been flogged it was
possible to see his backbone
bereft of flesh and that he was
beaten to a jelly down to the
calves of his legs ; all because
he refused to give evidence of
something which perhaps had
no reality. No doubt there was
exaggeration in this description,
but the main facts, on Marsden’s
own report, which still exists in
his own handwriting, are indis-
putable.
These events arose out of fresh
hysteria about a new projected
outbreak. The officers were con-
vened to meet again and listen
to further “evidence,” which was
about as garbled and rumorous
as that heard early in September.
They were unable to get any “act
or fact clearly established by
proof to amount to capital con-
viction,”
Nevertheless, they submitted
to Governor King the “expedi-
ency of bringing some of the
leaders to corporal punishment”
—five to receive 1000 lashes and
three 500 at various places,
where their sufferings would be
a warning to others. Then their
mangled remains should be
(they thought) conveyed to
“some secluded isle.. , .there to
remain for the term of their
original sentences, employed in
hard labor, and ordered to the,
strictest discipline to reduce
them to due obedience, subor-
dination and order.”
Quite a number of supposed
accomplices were also ordered
for lashes, either 200 or 500
each. None of these victims
appears to have been convicted
of any specific offence during
the “tedious investigation.” It
was just expedient that their
backs should be stripped of flesh
as a deterrent to rebels.
Everybody in authority in
N. S. Wales was astonished that
the Irish did not take these play-
ful inflictions on their hides in
good part. They seem to have
been an unreasonable people
who did not understand the laws
of justice and equity, especially
when applied by a Low Church
Protestant pastor with the aid
of the public executioner and
an assistant. They seem, as a
community, to have borne quite
a little resentment, and if there
had been no real rebellion in the
air, there soon was, and settlers
friendly to the Government in
the outlands became terrorised
by the resounding boasts of the
exiles from Erin of what livers
were intended to be cut out and
what ravage was ready to be
committed.
Some of the Irish of the
criminal classes appeared to be
possessed of devils. They robbed
and they took a special pleasure
in soiling the virtue of any
young lady who happened to be
available during their sallies
against property. They swag-
gered tremendously and they
spoke of insurrection and pil-
lage and their cutting-out of
hearts with terrifying openness,
until the colony had begun
almost to take, their noise as
part of everyday life, just as
Neapolitans accept Vesuvius as
a commonplace of existence.
It was therefore something of
a shock when it was suddenly
known in Sydney that rebellion
was an actuality, and the Gov-
ernment must have felt itself
lucky that at the seat of the
trouble there had been due
warning.
On March 1, 1804, an Irish-
man who had been sent to thatch
a building at a place called
“There or Nowhere” came in
and told Mr, Sloane, his over-
seer in Parramatta, that he had
fallen in with a compatriot who
had shown him a paper said to
be connected with an insurrec-
tion brewing at Castle Hill. The
headquarters of the plot was
said to be at the farm of Wil-
liamson, the assistant Commis-
sary, on the Hawkesbury. This
was hastily reported to Captain
Edward Abbott, that hardy
pioneer keeper of the marches of
the Hawkesbury, and from
Parramatta Barracks on the
evening of March 3 he sent off
the news post-haste to Sydney.
Fact ran hard on the heels of
anticipation.
There were more than 200
convicts at and around Castle
Hill, and plans to draw in hun-
dreds more were reported. On
the night of March 4 Mr.
George Suttor, who was in
charge of that station, found
himself in the midst of an
“alarming disturbance” when
between 100 and 200 shouting
ruffians rushed out of the Castle
Hill settlement, which had noth-
ing to guard it save a few con-
vict constables.
Shouting and cursing, the mob
invaded Mr. Sutler’s dwelling
and pointed weapons at his and
his wife’s breasts, so that they
“narrowly escaped being shot.”
It plundered homesteads far and
wide of guns, swords and pistols
and food, leaving behind —
allegedly—a trail of ladies who
had suffered “a fate worse than
death.”
By morning the rebels’ num-
ber was 400, and they had sent
out messengers whom they ex-
pected to bring in reinforce-
ments to give them an army of
1500. They had appointed two
leaders who had been soldiers
and they announced their inten-
tion of taking Parramatta, where
there was only a company of
about 50 soldiers under Captain
Abbott, as a preliminary to the
capture of Sydney and the Gov-
ernment.
That they did not immediately
take this action was their down-
fall. Perhaps the leaders had no
confidence in their state of dis-
cipline and wished to drill them.
Perhaps they wanted to have
their full force before attack.
Perhaps they had an unjustified
confidence that the N. S. Wales
Corps would be slothful, or that
its largely convict rank-and-file
would prove sympathetic. But
whatever they thought was
based on a miscalculation. Only
half-armed, they marched
raggedly to the hill at Toon-
gabbie to organise.
Meantime flying hooves by
midnight on March 4 brought
the news into Sydney that the
rebels were approaching Parra-
matta and that the whole coun-
tryside was in terror and tur-
moil, with “rapes, murders and
robberies” everywhere such
tales as are the familiar con-
comitants of panic.
Major Paterson, the Military
Commandant, who had brought
the first giraffe-skin to England
in earlier days, showed unsus-
pected qualities of energy and
organisation.
In a “few minutes” he had
the N. S. Wales Corps under
arms. Captain Woodriff, R.N.,
in H.M.S. Calcutta, in the Har-
bor, was importuned for Marines
and seamen to add to the com-
mand, and was soon on parade
with 140 men beside the noble
warriors of the N. S. Wales
Corps, 188 officers and men,
with a six-pounder brass cannon.
The Loyal Association’s men
were armed to the teeth. By
1 a.m., an hour after the news
of the rising came, every con-
vict in Sydney was under guard
and beyond the power of mis-
chief. By 10 a.m. the military
had possession of everything
that looked like a weapon in the
settlement. Picquets were out.
All communication with Parra-
matta by land or water was sub-
ject to challenge.
Meanwhile, like Governor
'King, Major Johnston, himself
later to lead a rebellion, was
slogging away up to Parramatta
in the dark, his huge cocked-hat
and scarlet coat perched on a
charger, his mounted vedettes
out, his dusty company plodding
behind.
„ He had got away from Syd-
ney about 1.30 a.m. with Lieu-
tenant Davies and Quartermaster
Laycock (who lived on ground
now occupied by The Bulletin
office), two sergeants and 52
rank-and-file of the N, S. Wales
Corps. He arrived at Parra-
matta at dawn —a good smart
march over 16 miles of rough
track —halted at the old barracks
near the river for 20 minutes to
refresh the troops, and, march-
ing to Government House, there
divided his men into two lots.
He sent Lieutenant Davies off
on the Castle Hill road and
himself, with Quartermaster
Laycock and a trooper and 26
men, plus a mob of local volun-
teers, set off to pursue the 400
rebels who were said to be at
Toongabbie, on the summit of
the hill there.
Nothing daunted by the size
of the force opposed to him,
Major Johnston, a veteran of
the American Civil War, had no
hesitation in attacking this over-
whelming assembly with his little
force. Indeed, he detached a
corporal and four soldiers, with
six inhabitants armed with
muskets to “take the enemy in
the flank,” and then valiantly
set out for the hill only to find
that the rebels had decamped
and were making for the
Hawkesbury.
A bold pursuit of 10 miles
brought him up with them. He
had ridden forward accom-
panied only by his trooper and
the Rev. Mr. Dixon, a Catholic
priest who, with the more sober
leaders of the Irish community,
was on the side of law and
order. He rode right up to the
convict mob and called on its
members to halt, as he wanted
to speak to them. They halted,
but asked him to “come into the
midst of them,” an invitation
which he warily refused, remark-
ing that he was within pistol-
shot of them, anyway, and they
could kill him if they liked, but
that their captains must have
very little spirit if they would
not come out and parley.
Two of the wretches then ad-
vanced and received a scolding
with a promise that if they sur-
rendered “I would mention them
in as favorable terms as possible
to the Governor.” One replied
that they were all for “death or
liberty.”
Johnston at once clapped his
pistol to this leader’s head. His
trooper in a trice had the other
covered. They drove the rebel-
lious pair of commanders, both
still sword in hand, to the ad-
vancing detachment of the in-
trepid Quartermaster Laycock,
which opportunely came into
sight at that moment*, while the
rebel army looked on.
The rebels were seen forming
ominously into line. Johnston
ordered a charge. His detach-
ment opened fire on the rabble,
drawing only scattered shots.
The enemy line broke and, save
for 12 killed, six wounded and
26 who had no turn of speed,
the bold insurrectionists
scattered helter-skelter into the
bush. The arms captured by the
military spoke for themselves-
“26 musquets, one fowling-piece,
four bayonets on poles, one
pitchfork, one pistol, eight reap-
ing-hooks and two swords.”
All that remained was to pur-
sue the fugitives, gather in the
groups who were coming to join
them and hang, by drum-head
court-martial under martial law,
whatever leaders came in the
Government’s way. From 200
taken with arms, three others,
not leaders, were selected to be
hanged at Parramatta, three at
Castle Hill and two at Sydney.
Nine received from 200 to 500
lashes each. The rebellion was
over, but fear of recurrences
remained.
Even when the glorious day
of real revolution arrived and
Johnston himself headed a re-
bellion to overthrow the “tyrant
Bligh” in January, 1808, the pre-
ceding portents had been masked
by threats of a new rising on the
Hawkesbury,
Not till Governor Macquarie
swept away the animosity which
lay between Government and
Irish by declaring St. Patrick’s
Day a day of celebration and
holiday for his convict servants
in 1810 did the ever-present
danger of a new Vinegar Hill
disappear.


'SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling, irrigation
and drainage, building, con-
struction. Complete with case
and tripod. With horizontal
circle in single degrees.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Optical
Square, General Survey and
Drafting Requirements.
AND SONS
. PTY. LTD.
42 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY
Write for
Illustrated
Brochure.
£44/10/-
+ sales tax
*
BW 8631.
SPORTING NOTIONS
New Zealand’s 27th national
sale of thoroughbred yearlings
will be held on January 19, 20
and 23, and it is certain, as in
previous years, that quite a
number of the youngsters will be
bought for Australian interests.
Several new imported and a
couple of Dominion-bred sires
will be represented for the first
time. Those from England
include Faux Tirage, Lucky Bag,
Dogger Bank, Panair, Count
Rendered, Amber and White
Heather.
Upwards of 100 yearlings will
be submitted on the first day of
the N.Z. sale. One youngster
that should attract keen bidding
is Dalray’s half-brother, to be
paraded by H. F. Wooffenden,
of New Plymouth. The brown
colt is by new sire Count
Rendered from Broiveine by
Broie f o r t (imp.). Count
Rendered is one of the few sires
by noted English stayer Pre-
cipitation in this part of the
world. His dam, Lady Sybil,
was got by Nearco from Sister
Sarah by Abbot’s Trace.
Caulfield punters were on the
spot last Saturday, well-fancied
horses winning most of the seven
events. One of the day’s “good
things,” Harmonist in the Second
Juvenile Stakes, gave his 2-to-l-
on punters no cause for anxiety,
but 7-to-4-on Nealing, in the
First Juvenile, was easily beaten
into third-place by dead-heaters
Cromis and Royal Hunter, Last-
named was purchased at the
Sydney April yearling sales for
550gns., the bid of Melbourne
trainer J. Mulcahy, who is train-
ing the son of Hunter’s Moon
(imp.) and Nell Gwynne (half-
sister to Air Link) by Golden
Sovereign (imp.). Nell Gwynne
won a couple of two-year-old
events at Randwick some years
ago.
N.Z.-bred Harmonist has
opened his racing career auspici-
ously—two Caulfield starts for
two wins. Harmonist (one of
T. Lewis’s team, raced by Mrs.
J. Pierce) is a chestnut colt by
imported Pherozshar from
Heroic Maid, and cost 950
guineas as a yearling. Heroic
Maid won half a dozen races
in the Dominion, and is a half-
sister to former Sydney sprinter
Heroic Sovereign (12 wins and
£14,087 in stakes).
The next Melbourne Cup is a
long way off —almost a year—
but the Melbourne trainer of
Free Kick, P. B. Quinlan, is
already planning to set the six-
year-old gelding for the two-
miler. Free Kick will be a
seven-year-old next November,
and Cup records are much
against the aged group in Aus-
tralia’s greatest handicap. How-
ever, Free Kick won at two
miles at his latest run at Caul-
field last Saturday, when he
lifted the Inkerman Handicap,
starting favorite at 9 to 4 and
capably ridden by A. (Scobie)
Breasley. Free Kick also won
the Inkerman in 1951 and was
runner-up, at 6 to 4, in January
last year to Bold John.
Yusef Haroon, of Pakistan, an
absentee from Rosehill, prob-
ably didn’t benefit much from
the win by his three-year-old
Asab-E-Ali in the First Gradua-
tion Stakes, as the colt started
at 25 to 1. Stakemoney was
£698. Asab-E-Ali is one of Fred
Allsop’s Randwick team (All-
sop also prepares Caspar,
another Rosehill winner, for Sir
Sydney Snow). Jack Thompson
rode a rather confident race on
the Whirlaway (imp.) colt, who
cost 1400 guineas as a yearling
and is closely related to former
champion Ajax.
Joe Taylor, who races Elegant
Lad, has missed seeing his horse,
win successive events at Canter-
bury and Rosehill. Elegant Lad
formerly had been trained by
Bill Stripe (successful at Rose-
hill the same day with Burn
Son, who, incidentally, had
finished second to Elegant Lad
at Canterbury) for W. J. Smith,
but W.J. has more-or-less given
racing of horses away for the
time tteing.
Colonel Winter, who opened
his account at 6-to-4 on in the
B.A.T.C.’s First Maiden at
Albion Park (Brisbane), is raced
by his Queensland breeders,
G. E. and J. W. Nagel. He is a
three-year-old gelding by A 1
Wassat (imp.) from Battle Dress,
a Double Remove (imp.) mare
bred in 1939 from Lady Silvius
by Silvius (imp.). The A 1 Was-
sat’s haven’t been the success
anticipated when his first progeny
came into the yearling-sale ring,
but they may do better with a bit
of age on their side. His oldest
stock are four-year-olds.
Randwick paddock book-
maker Jack Mandel had a
surprise winner at the latest
Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) meeting
when the lightly-raced Miss
Sharon opened her account in
the Second Maiden Handicap.
To Hawkesbury punters Miss
Sharon was just another race-
horse and one they didn’t expect
to win. However, the three-year-
old filly looks a potential stayer,
as her half-sister, Ballroom, won
the A.J.C. Summer Cup (13
furlongs) and two mile-and-a-
half races at Randwick besides
other events. Miss Sharon’s
dam, Dolly Bian, is a Lang Bian
(imp.) mare. He sired several
New Zealand stayers. Paper
Boy (imp.), sire of the Hawkes-
bury winner, won races in Eng-
land, including the Newmarket
Cottenham Handicap (H miles)
with 9.7. He has Carbine blood
on both sides of his pedigree.
Raxon, winner of two
two-year-old events (at Kembla
Grange and Hawkesbury,
N.S.W.), carries the colors of
Mrs. E. Hipwell, and is trained
at Randwick by the successful
T. J. Smith, now in N.Z. for the
yearling sales. The gelding
belongs to the same family as
two smart New Zealanders,
Pakanui (winner of 18 races)
He is by Newtown Wonder
(imp.), who has had a fine run
with early two-year-olds. Dam
of Raxon> Ellenborough, is a
daughter of Yaralla and Corbay
by Madagascar (unp.),
... .
Q ne of the first p rogen y 0 f
Roya j Trophy (imp.) to be sold
in Sydney in March, 1951, was
a b colt from stamped by Hall
Mark a]nd f rom tbe same family
as £) eba q Romano paid
j 2 50gns. for the youngster, but
] ater & i eased him to Norman
c G hen, who, in partnership with
b j s w jf e) races the now three-
y ear . o i d ’ as Royal Impression,
T he colt opened his winning
accoun t i n the Hawkesbury First
Maiden a t the latest fixture
there. He is a first foal and
c i ose iy related to Manfred,
w i nner D f £28,830 in stakes,
“Look what I got!”
including both Derbies and the
Cahlfield Cup.
When races are held by
the N.S.W. Trotting Club at
Harold Park (Sydney) on Satur-
day nights hundreds, perhaps a
thousand or two, of the Satur-
day-afternoon racegoers com-
bine both fixtures. This hap-
pened again last Saturday, when
the Free For All was won
second-favorite Petty Officer
(scr.), driven by A. Egan. In
winning the Third Summer
Handicap at 7-to-4 on, Ribands
drew attention to his prospects
in the Inter-Dominion Cham-
pionships to be held at Perth
on February 18 and following
nights, when £30,300 in prize-
money will be distributed.
• • • •
Back in training in Melbourne,
Peshawar, winner of the Caul-
field Cup last spring, is expected
to resume racing at Moonee
Valley on January 24 in the
William Reid Stakes (six
furlongs, less 20yds.). It is run
under special conditions: a
£2500 stake, with a maximum of
9.4 and a minimum of 7.5.
Favorite, Flying Halo, won the
race last year. Owned by Sir
Sydney Snow and Alan C. Lewis,
Peshawar hasn’t raced since fail-
ing in Dalray’s Melbourne Cup,
and the six furlongs of the Reid
Stakes might be a trifle short for
him. In any case it is hardly
likely he would be ready in time.
When leading race-clubs talk
of reducing prizemoney it’s a
bad sign, something no owner,
trainer, jockey or turfman wants
to hear about; but Queensland
Turf Club has heartened owners
of rising three-year-olds eligible
to contest the Derby and St.
Leger in Brisbane in the 1953-54
season. Both classics have been
increased by £5OO. The Derby
will now be worth £3500 and the
St. Leger £2500.
Adelaide has shown the way
to other Australian racing-clubs
by stating the exact age of horses
in racebooks. This has been the
vogue in South Australia for
about 12 months or so, but is not
the rule in many other centres.
Adelaide R.C.’s racebook also
includes photographs of race
finishes, another idea that could
be adopted elsewhere. Entrance
to the grandstand (gents) at
A.R.C.’s meetings is 12s. 6d,
only (including 3s. Id. tax), and
the Is. racebook contains quite
a lot of useful information.
New Zealand has a most
promising three-year-old
brother to Vagabond in Pro-
gramme, whose successes include
the N.Z. Derby, Avondale and
Hawke’s Bay Guineas, and Auck-
land’s Great Northern Derby.
Programme, a 1500-guineas
yearling, is by Balloch (imp.)
from Blandsong. Balloch also is
sire of Melbourne Cup winner
Dalray (13 wins and £39,329 in
stakes) and of Tauloch (£18,325).
• • •
One of the treasured paintings
decorating the walls of the
A.J.C. committee-room in the
official stand at Randwick is a
full-sized action color-picture of
Chatham, noted Australian
miler, with the “old master” Jim
Pike in the saddle. Those privi-
leged to occasionally visit this
inner sanctum have noted Pike’s
perfect balance and poise, which
were characteristics of his superb
jockey ship. Chatham was raced
by A. E. Blair and trained by
Fred Williams, who turned out
many winners. Chatham won,
among other races, the 1934
A.J.C. Doncaster and 1932 and
1933 Epsoms. Twenty years
earlier Pike had won the A.J.C.
Derby on Beragoon. Of course
he won everything about the
place so far as Australian races
are concerned. Naturally, Phar
Lap was the best horse he rode.
* * * *
Rain interfered on the final
day in both main cricket issues
decided last week —S. Africa v.
N.S.W. in Sydney, Vic. v. S. Aus.
in Melbourne. In Sydney it was
a maw. Most interesting feature
of the match was youngster lan
Craig’s workmanlike double-
century. S. Africa 196
(Cheetham 64 n. 0.) and 7-221
(Endean 59, Keith 50); N.S.W.
7-416 (Craig 213 n. 0., Miller 58).
There was only a half-hour’s
play on the last day in Mel-
bourne. S. Aus. won on the first
innings, but looked to be head-
ing for outright defeat. Vic.
250 (Ring 65; Manning 4-39)
and 362 (Hassett 123, Thoms 59 ;
Wilson 6-98); S. Aus. 302 (Hole
111, Favell 81 ; Hill 7-51) and
3-28.
S. Aus., which last won the
Sheffield Shield in 1935-36, has
a good chance this year. Points
to date: S. Aus. 18 (three games
to play), N.S.W. 14 (two to play),
W.A. 8 (two to go), Vic. 6 (three
to go), Q. 1 (two to play).
Except that the Springboks
had a different drink-waiter, the
same contestants lined up in the
third cricketing shindy as in the
second. Hassett again missed in
coin-calling; S’Africa, after a
good start, were all out 173.
(Funston, top-score with a neat
56.) Lindwall and Miller started
most of ’em on the trek back to
the pavilion. Australian Jim de
Courcy, picked to help with the
refreshments, in a more active
role when Benaud was injured,
snapped up two slip-catches. On
Saturday night Australia was
just over 100 ahead, with three
down. Harvey, in fine form this
year, hit his second century of
the series.
“K.R.”: N.Z. left - hand
opening-bat Bert Sutcliffe, prob-
ably N.Z.’s most prolific run-
getter, hit up 385 in a Plunket
Shield match the other day,
highest first-class score by a New
Zealander. He had held the
previous best (355, made for
Otago against Auckland in
1949-50). Another mammoth
score, also against Auckland, was
275 in 1950-51. Sutcliffe also
holds the record aggregate for a
Plunket Shield season (610, av.
87.14, in 1950-51) —here again h*e
broke his own record. He has
played in Tests against England,
Australia and West Indies
(skipper against Goddard’s side).
I’ve no thought of comparison,
but he and his great English
namesake of other days have
both scored the same number of
centuries (two) in England-N.Z.
Tests.
* * * 4c
“Don Wimble” on some tough
tennis;
Mention of Australia’s participation
in the most one-sided matches in
Davis Cup history (B. 7/1/’53) brings
to mind that Australia has also had a
hand in the most gruellingly even
matches. What is, I believe, still the
record in the way of marathon
doubles matches was played between
U.S.A. and Australia at Forest Hills
way back in 1923, when Tilden and
R. N. Williams beat J. O. Anderson
and J. B. Hawkes in 81 games. The
first two sets took 56 games and the
final score was 17-15, 11-13, 2-6, 6-3,
6-2.
In 1947 the same Forest Hills
arena saw an Australian rep. and an
American play out what was up to
then the longest singles match in the
Davis Cup record-books. Playing
Dinny Pails, the American Ted
Schroeder seemed to have the match
taped after winning the first two sets,
but it eventually took him five sets
and 71 games to dispose of the pug-
nacious Pails; the final score was
6-3, 8-6, 4-6, 9-11, 10-8.
That record stood for only a year.
In the 1948 inter-zone final between
Australia and Czechoslovakia, Quist
and Drobny played a match which
easily shattered the previous long-
distance singles record. The match
went to 78 games, with Drobny win-
ning 6-8, 3-6, 18-16, 6-3, 7-5. This
particular inter-zone final was remark-
able for long, hard-fought sets all
round, and must rank as one of the
closest in the book. Sidwell beat
Drobny in another marathon with the
score 6-3, 6-2, 9-11, 14-12, and in
other matches individual sets went
to such scores as 10-8 and 13-11.
If it is possible to distinguish any
one rubbber as the most excitingly
close in Cup history, the vote would
probably go to the 1946 European-
zone semi-final between France and
Yugoslavia. Every match went to five
sets, and the outcome was in the bal-
ance right to the last set. On the
first day France won both singles;
Petra beat Mitic 2-6, 8-6, 6-4, 3-6, 8-6,
and Bernard beat Puncec 2-6, 6-1, 0-6,
7-5, 6-3. Mitic and Puncec downed
the Frenchmen 8-10, 8-6, 6-3, 5-7,
10-8 in the doubles, and Mitic brought
it to level-pegging when he tossed
Bernard 6-3, 4-6, 3-6, 6-0, 6-3. Then
came the decider between Puncec and
Petra. Puncec won the first set; Petra
won the second; Puncec won the
third; Petra won the fourth —6-3, 3-6,
6-4, 7-9. By this time nobody would
have taken much notice if a hydro-
gen-bomb had lobbed on the adjoin-
ing court. But, with everything in
his favor, playing on familiar courts
and with a crowd, partisan as only
Parisian crowds can be, behind him
to a man, it was the Frenchman who
cracked. And crack he did properly,
losing the last set to love in the com-
plete anticlimax.


The Gentle Art of Making
Booby Traps
By "TAFFY" OWEN
IN World War I, before static
warfare had given way to
more mobile conditions,
tunnelling companies in the
Somme sector had not only
blown up a considerable number
of the enemy but had also
blasted themselves out of a job,
much to the satisfaction of the
P. 8.1., who supplied the fatigue-
parties. Aussie miners contri-
buted substantially to this
achievement, one well-known
and well-beloved personality
from hereabouts, Sir Edgeworth
David, being outstanding.
Thus it came about that early
in July, 1916, the Army was
faced with the problem of find-
ing gainful employment for a
number of rather undisciplined
specialists, and no doubt the
officers in command of units to
which they had been temporarily
attached were considerably re-
lieved when signals were received
that the miners were to report to
Corps H.Q.
From that point on this narra-
tive becomes, of necessity, per-
sonal.
Before July, 1916, my own
knowledge of booby-traps (and
that of any other officer, as far
as I could ascertain) had been
confined to the Horse of Troy,
some yarns of doubtful authen-
ticity by old soldiers who had
served in the Boer War, and to
disconnecting trip-wires attached
to small charges of explosive in
no-man’s-land.
Only occasionally Fritz threw
over a “doctored” hand-grenade.
These consisted of a simple
“potato-masher” or “hair-brush”
bomb, or even of a jam- or
rinder-fieisch- tin filled with don-
nerit (German high-explosive),
but the fuse was not lighted, and
had been replaced by a type
which took only a fraction of a
second to function, instead of
the normal three to five.
It had been the practice to
relight hand-grenade fuses which
arrived extinguished in our
trenches and to return them to
their rightful owners, but the
innovation mentioned, which
was not considered cricket, made
this practice unpopular, and
grenades with dead fuses were
left severely alone by both sides.
I have seen a haversack full of
Mills-bombs still hanging un-
touched in a Jerry trench where
they had been left by a wounded
man in a previous raid 10 days
before.
When my party arrived at
Corps H.Q. we were, to our sur-
prise, quite warmly welcomed,
and I was told that the general
would see me in his private dug-
out and not in the orderly-room
as I had expected. After a
whisky-and-soda he told me he
had a job for me right out of
the bag.
“We have received informa-
tion,” he said, “that the enemy
is fitting explosive devices in
quite a number of dugouts,
preparatory to vacating them. I
want you, with your trained
troops, to render those devices
innocuous so that the troops can
use the dugouts as soon as we
occupy the ground.”
I replied that I knew noth-
ing about the working of such
contraptions, but any objections
I might have had were lightly
brushed aside:
“Nonsense, my boy! You’ve
been handling explosives by the
ton for the past six months.”
Similar tactics were adopted
with my men when a sergeant-
major bellowed out;
“One step forward those who
can ride a bike.”
As the men invariably rode
bicycles to the pit-head in
civilian life, they all responded,
and were issued each with a
motor-cycle, whose controls
were explained to them by a
transport corporal.
Thus was the booby-trap sec-
tion born, and I am still
puzzled to understand how we
reached the line without a
casualty.
The traps laid in any ground
from which Fritz had retreated
were the work not of hap-
hazardly-chosen engineer troops
but of specially-trained pioneers.
Steps leading underground were
almost invariably mined, and
after we had solved that par-
ticular problem by sliding down
the handrails Fritz retaliated by
placing charges actuated by the
handrails as well. Intelligence
often forewarned us of any new
device; but the fact that we
were improvisers, with no guid-
ance from higher up, probably
saved us as many casualties as
did the organised and routine
nature of the work of our
opponents.
In the early stages traps on
both sides were designed,
primarily, with the object of
catching attacking troops. Thus
anything which might appeal to
their fancy was mined. Chairs,
tables with food left on them,
bunks, portable “souvenirs”
(such as new pikelhaube, nude
statuettes and photographs)
were, with reason, all suspect,
as were any quarters left un-
usually neat. Most of the Ger-
man traps were actuated by
pressure which fired a charge
either by mechanical or electri-
cal means. Sometimes, however,
as in the case of a fire ready-
laid for lighting in a cooking-
stove, the charge was placed in
with the fuel or up the flue.
At first the infantry called
upon us to examine any sus-
pected area or dugout. Later
on troops were forbidden to
enter any dugout until we had
passed it as safe, or, in the
vernacular, “deloused” it. Safe
dugouts were indicated by a
signed notice, and many of these
were afterwards embellished by
ribald artists. I now wish that
I had collected a few samples
of this Rabelaisian art, but I
was far too occupied with other
duties. In addition, during my
first weeks on the job I lived in
a state of chronic “wind-up”
until mental and physical fatigue
induced an apathy which was
my nearest approach to that
heroism with which the Press
credited us.
+ +
World War I booby-trapping
reached its peak in the Hinden-
burg Line, where each nail on
which equipment might be hung
had to be examined, each board
tested and every loose article
(particularly “souvenirs” and
bottles of beer, wine and spirits)
scrutinised. Now, also, the traps
were designed not only to be set
off by the natural impulses of
the simple soldier but were
aimed also against the delouser
employing routine methods.
Thus the standard practice of
cutting all exposed wires, with
the object of making harmless
the electrical traps, would, in
many cases, set the trap off. In-
stinctively one looked for
hammer-marks, bright nails or
sawdust, all of which indicated
new work. I am still allergic to
sawdust.
In the Hindenburg Line I en-
countered my first really sadistic
trap, and I wish to this day that
its author has been adequately
punished. It consisted of a starv-
ing kitten kept captive by a
length of string tied round its
neck and attached, apparently,
to a floor-board. One of my
sergeants was about to release
the kitten, but I chanced to
notice that the string still re-
mained taut, although it became
shorter, as the kitten moved
away, and I warned him to keep
clear. The string round the kit-
ten’s neck was found to pass
through a hole in the board, and
its other end had a weight
attached to it. If the string had
been cut, which any normal
humane man would have done,
the weight would have dropped
on to a trigger setting off a
couple of kilograms (about 51b.)
of donnerit, , killing both kitten
and would-be rescuer.
When it came to World War
11, even towards the end of
1940, judging by the instructions
and pamphlets issued on the sub-
ject, the Allied military com-
mands seemed to have forgotten
or mislaid the data collected
during World War 1 on booby-
trapping, and the experience so
painfully gained was wasted. I
felt certain, however, that this
would not be the case in the
German military organisation,
and I thought that, as one of
the very few officers who had
survived two years of active
trap-delousing, my experience
would be of use to the Australian
Army, even though my survival
was due to luck rather than to
technique.
I was astonished and disap-
pointed, therefore, when I was
told that, even if my age had
permitted of enlistment, this war
would be one of movement with
no time for booby-traps and
other such bow-and-arrow
abominations.
When later events in North
Africa proved that traps were
still being used I was, rather
reluctantly, allowed to lecture
as a civilian at one of the larger
Army schools, which I did,
vitriolically. Later still, the
C.O. of the school suggested that
there was room for me on his
establishment with the rank of
captain. This suited me, as it
would give me sufficient seniority
to allow me to press my opinions,
which I was unable to do as a
civilian, while they would have
been disregarded if coming
from the lowest-commissioned
rank. Once more I offered my-
self for enlistment, and immedi-
ately joined the staff of the
school, vested in all the glory of
three pips.
I had, however, underesti-
mated the booby-trap ability of
the authorities, for when the
“Gazette” listing my appointment
was published I appeared as
lieutenant, and I suffered the in-
dignity and embarrassment of
being demoted. For my own
satisfaction I did this publicly
before the school, explaining
what had happened. I thus
started my second Army career
on the wrong foot, and I was
not surprised that, after the
regulation six months of school
service, I was marched out to
G.D.D., which is the military
equivalent of being placed in the
slave-market on offer to any
casual bidder.
One of those wonderful men
who spend their lives in helping
lame dogs over stiles rescued me
from that fate, and I gladly
joined his school as junior in-
structor in bomb-disposal. This
school was a remarkable one,
and its staff consisted of a col-
lection of brilliant artists and
engineers, too unorthodox to be
acceptable elsewhere, who in-
structed all ranks very efficiently
in a variety of subjects, includ-
ing camouflage, demolitions and
chemical-warfare.
“Paddy’s school,” as it was
affectionately known, suffered
from the terrible smear of not
having an official establishment,
and the authorities showed their
disapproval, while supplying the
school with funds and some
niggardly equipment, by refus-
ing to pay the staff the usual
field-allowance. For reasons
unstated, the school was dis-
banded after six months,
although it had earned its laurels
by removing and rendering
harmless the shells which a Jap
submarine deposited in the
vicinity of Rose Bay. Paddy
had been busy looking after our
interests, and we not only re-
ceived our delayed field-allow-
ance in one welcome lump but
each of us was found a congenial
post.
I was allotted the charge of a
school of jungle warfare, but
the authorities again trapped
me, and I found myself 2 i/c,
and retained that position under
two chief-instructors. I did,
however, receive my long-
promised captaincy, and, later
on, command of the school.
Most of my pupils were officers
with recent battle experience,
and I could not have wished for
a finer bunch. My most enthusi-
astic audiences were volunteers
who were afterwards dropped
behind the enemy lines. In spite
of niggardliness in material
allotted for the purpose, the traps
they left behind them —largely
constructed with equipment sal-
vaged from shot-down aircraft
—caused havoc and dismay.
+ +
By this time booby-trapping in
both Europe and Africa had de-
veloped into a highly-skilled
and specialised business, and in-
cluded the tactics of building-up
false confidence and of lulling
into a false sense of security fol-
lowed by an unexpected blow.
Typical of this technique, and
probably the finest example of
psychology applied to warfare,
was the little-publicised trapping
and destruction of German
forces in the citadel of Kiev.
This lovely old fortress, once
known as “The Mother of
Russian Cities,” and the start-
ing-point of Slav domination in
that part of the world, had by
the time of the German invasion
of 1941 a heterogeneous popula-
tion of nearly half a million,
and was the cultural centre of
the Ukraine. The Old City, built
on hills dropping abruptly into
the river Dnieper, contained
some of the finest historical
monuments in all Russia, includ-
ing the cathedral of St. Sophie
and many other ancient churches
and monasteries; the whole a
national treasure-house whose
destruction would mean a heavy
and irreplaceable loss.
Towards the middle of
August, 1941, it became obvious
to the Russians that Kiev
would have to be abandoned, as
the German pincer-movement
was developing rapidly. It,
might have been assumed that
they would move at least the
more valuable of their treasures
to safer localities, but, surpris-
ingly, all the priceless objects,
even the more portable ones,
were left where they stood.
Moreover, booby-traps, whose
operation would mean the de-
struction of this wealth, were
attached to the finest of them.
It was reported that 10,000 of
these traps, all connected to ex-
plosive charges, were laid down.
Contrary to the usual Russian
practice, the work was done
openly, a procedure all the more
remarkable as a large part of
the population was Polish in
origin and sympathies and in-
eluded many known and sus-
pected informers. More remark-
able still was the fact that many
of these spies got through the
Russian lines to the German
Army.
Kiev fell on or about Septem-
ber 20, 1941. The Germans,
being forewarned, used their
specially - trained delousing
squads to prevent the traps from
functioning and to remove them.
Thanks to the information re-
ceived, which was found to be
correct in every case, the work
was accomplished with very few
casualties. . In addition, every
electric circuit, both public and
private, was thoroughly tested,
and was removed completely if
any abnormality was suspected.
The power-house in the Old
City had been knocked about by
the retreating Russians, but the
damage done was not very
serious, and was quickly repaired
by German technicians. Before
it was put into use, however, the
whole of the distributing-system
was minutely checked, and then,
and then only, the power was
laid on a single section at a
time.
Nothing happened!
By mid-October all buildings
and underground accommoda-
tion —including the extensive
catacombs excavated below the
monasteries—had been declared
safe. The normal life of the
city was resumed, and 30,000
troops relaxed in unusual com-
fort in the electrically-lit and
-powered citadel and catacombs.
Then, in the last week of
October—without any warning
or known cause —the entire
citadel blew up and the catacomb
entrances collapsed, burying the
occupants. There were very few
survivors.
This catastrophe, as far as my
knowledge goes, received no
mention in the European Press,
but short and garbled accounts
of it were published in the
U.S.A. The Russians were
completely silent on the matter.
It is now known, however, that
a special company of university-
trained psychologists were
attached to that section of the
front; one of its functions was
to predict the reaction of the
enemy to every type of booby-
trap, and to design and install
traps to work to that reaction.
Such psychological guidance,
when properly applied, is of
enormous practical value in war-
fare, but, officially at least, it
has not been employed by the
Australian military authorities,
although the individual Aussie
soldier, who has a remarkable
flair for improvisation, has used
this approach to traps and tactics
unconsciously.
At all events, there is little
doubt that the operations in
Papua and New Guinea, especi-
ally on the retreats, would have
been far less costly in Australian
lives if properly-organised and
-trained booby-trapping com-
panies had been employed—for
instance, during the withdrawal
along the Kokoda Trail.
I became very unpopular in
some high quarters owing to my
advocacy of such action, and I
can still hear the horse-laugh
which greeted my suggestion that
I should be allowed to doctor
big industrial plants on the
mainland in the Kiev manner.
The necessity for that never
arose, fortunately, but it nearly
did so.
Actually, I worked out a cir-
cuit which was capable of doing
just what the Russians did in
that' city, and I suspect that my
design has been forgotten or lost
in the “Very Secret” files.
Booby-trapping is at its most
effective in use by the retreating
side, but, at best, it is a dirty
business. As, however, all
panache has long ago vanished
from war, and as the booby-
trapper runs a greater risk, on
average, than the boob, it
should be condoned and utilised.
Psychology, also, is an exasper-
ating and complex subject, and
its application is rife with char-
latanism. But, in the case of
Kiev, at least 30,000 dead bear
witness to its efficacy.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SOLVENCY v. SAFETY
When, last month, Mr.
Churchill announced big cuts in
Britain’s defence programme.
Left-wing papers like London
“Tribune” celebrated what they
and most others —saw as a
triumah for Bevanism.
Nearly two years earlier Mr.
Bevan made his first break with
Attlee Labor on this very issue,
forecasting bankruptcy for
Britain if the scheme to spend
£4700 million was carried out.
On the face of it, the prophet
has been completely vindicated.
London “Economist” has
sought to justify Mr. Churchill.
When Mr. Bevan, in 1951,
insisted on the cuts now made,
war was a near danger, and
hence the Bevan stand was then
wrong. But Mr. Churchill “is
not the Prime Minister who
would cut defence because he
dare not ask for further
economic sacrifices or because he
ranks military efficiency in the
long run above national safety
in the short run. The real motive
cannot be concealed. Mr.
Churchill does not like to say
so in this context, lest it should
encourage complacency, but in
fact he is cutting defence because
he thinks that the danger of war
has receded.”
London “Observer” also holds
that Mr. Churchill’s now coming
round to Mr. Sevan’s position
does not necessarily prove Mr.
Bevan right. It contends that
both of them might be wrong.
If they are, and war does come,
the result for J. Bull could be
fatal.
Behind the “political drama of
the rearmament programme” it
sees “the most cruel dilemma”
Britain has “ever faced.’’ The
dilemma arises from the fact
that in the present age Britain
can “no longer be both safe and
solvent.” It has to choose. “It
is a dire choice”:
“Britain has never been —and
has never needed to be —fully
set for war in peace-time, main-
taining huge standing forces as
some Continental nations used
to do. ‘Safety’ for her has
meant, and still means, simply
the insurance that she will have
time for mobilisation —that she
cannot be invaded, starved out,
or blotted out in the first stage
of a war.
“But the price of this neces-
sary insurance has gone up all
the time and has today become
forbidding. Until 1914 safety
was provided by sea-power
alone. Today it demands also,
at the very least, air supremacy
over the British Isles and their
coastal waters. Britain cannot
now be considered safe unless
she has at all times the equivalent
of the Spitfires and Hurricanes of
1940 a certain minimum
number of the very latest and
best instruments of air defence.
“These instruments, unlike
those of sea-power, change
rapidly. The Vampires and
Meteors, which are today the
standard equipment of Britain’s
fighter squadrons, are obsolete.
The Swifts and Hunters now in
production will be obsolescent
almost as soon as they come into
service. The even more modern
fighter planes to succeed them
will soon be superseded by
guided missiles, and the missiles
of 1960, while perhaps giving
full protection against the last
bombers, will be no use against
the first offensive missiles of,
say, 1970.
“To be at any time really safe
against annihilation from the air
we [British] have constantly to
scrap and replace our defensive
weapons—and each new weapon
is more complex and more
expensive in money and man-
hours than the last. Consider-
ing ourselves as a sovereign
State, this is a race we cannot
stand, unless we want to go
bankrupt; but we also cannot
give it up, unless we resign our-
selves to defencelessness in case
of war.
“We have not yet really faced
the problem or made a per-
manent choice between solvency
and safety. For the time being
we are content to take gambler’s
risks and back our hunches from
moment to moment. Twenty
months ago [when Mr. Bevan
urged practically the same cuts
that have now been made] war
seemed in the air: so we threw
solvency to the winds and
scrambled to safety.
“Today things look a little
more peaceful—and here we are
throwing safety overboard and
scuttling for solvency. To-
morrow there may be another
sudden crisis, and we shall
hurriedly restore the aircraft
orders which we are today can-
celling. But it is an unsound
plan to stake one’s life on always
guessing right; and the penalties
of being caught unprepared by a
modern war are terrible.
“Sooner rather than later, we
shall have to make a binding
choice between solvency and
safety and face the implications
“Stuttgarter Zeitung,” Germany.
ENTANGLEMENT ON THE SAAR
of that choice. If we choose
safety, we shall have to seek and
accept permanent financial sub-
sidies. If we choose solvency,
we shall have to seek and accept
permanent foreign participation
in the defence of Britain. In
either case the country on whose
support we shall chiefly depend
is America ; in either case we
shall be in large and respectable
company, for our dilemma is
shared by nearly all the Great
Powers of yesterday.
“The rapidly developing tech-
nology of war, which before the
Second World War made non-
sense of the sovereignty of small
nations, is now mopping up that
of the former Great Powers. It
is a process from which there
seems to be no escape. Any
security in the future can be
only collective security.”
Truman Right
With President Truman about
to hand over to Eisenhower, the
“historians” are already busy
assessing the Truman record.
Generally the finding is that
on big issues he made the right
decisions. British comment
naturally faults his Administra-
tion’s Asian policy—it has run
counter to British policy there,
notably in refusing to make a
deal with Communist China.
But, comments “Manchester
Guardian,” about one of Presi-
dent Truman’s decisive acts in
the Asian sector there can hardly
be two opinions;
“In June, 1950, it was his
responsibility to decide, virtually
single-handed, whether or not to
set in motion the United Nations
military action in Korea.
“What followed has, it is true,
caused great ravages. But who
can doubt that if the world had
tamely swallowed the attack on
Korea it would have had to
resist a more dangerous attack
elsewhere a little later?
“If what Mr. Chamberlain did
at Munich was wrong, what
President Truman did over
Korea was right. It would not
be consistent to blame them
both for courses exactly the
opposite.”
European Army—
Maybe
British Press comment has
generally been sceptical all along
that the world would ever see a
European Army.
Now that all nations involved
have put off final signing for
another month or two even U.S.
optimism, not only on the Euro-
pean Defence Community but
on the whole dream of a united
Europe, has begun to wane.
Most British comment at this
stage agrees with the “Man-
chester Guardian” expectation
that both great projects will end
up in limbo.
The crux of the matter,
American commentator Walter
Lippmann emphasises in New
York “Herald Tribune,” is
Franco-German reconciliation.
If France and Germany can
come to a real peace one with
the other, then Europe can exist;
without that reconciliation
Europe cannot exist. In the way
there are such positive hurdles
as the near-impossibility of
agreement on the Saar and the
far-from-ended French suspicion
and fear of Germany;
“In order to raise a consider-
able German army immediately,
as the agreements [of last May]
seemed to promise, it would be
necessary to put the young
German conscript under the
officers and noncoms of the old
German Army. This would
mean that the largest national
force in Western Europe would
be German, and that this force
would be under the command
and the control jof the same
corps of officers who led the
German Army in World War 11.
“France, with its terrible
entanglement in Indo-China,
cannot hope to have an army in
Europe which is comparable with
such a* German army. The
British cannot raise a compar-
able army. We [U.S.A.] will not
raise it. The fact of the matter
is that the European army, if it
were created according to the
existing plans, would have as its
core the reconstituted German
Army of World War 11.
“This is a prospect which is
not only unacceptable to most
of the non-Germans in Europe.
It is unacceptable to a great
mass, probably a majority, of the
Germans themselves. That is
why Dr. Adenauer found it
expedient to postpone ratifica-
tion. The German opposition to
German rearmament has many
causes. But none is so powerful
as the belief that the young
democratic republic is too frail
to withstand the pressure and
the intrigues of an army under
the old Nationalist and Nazi
officers.”
The proposal to reconstitute a
German army was, in Lipp-
mann’s view, politically prema-
ture. For that reason it is being
resisted and obstructed every-
where in Europe. It will un-
avoidably have to be re-
examined and renegotiated.
Crystal-ball Report
“With few exceptions,” a New
York correspondent of the
“Times Review of Industry” has
reported, “forecasts of the eco-
nomic pattern for 1953 and
1954 include two predictions;
first, that business will be un-
usually good for the next six to
nine months, and, secondly, that
business will begin to slump
within a year or a year and a
half.
“This is as far as unanimity
extends. On the question of how
good business will be before the
economy begins to sicken there
is less agreement; and on the
much more important questions
of exactly when the recession
will begin and how bad it will
be when it comes there is very
little agreement indeed.”
Those who don’t like what is
forecast find consolation in the
thought that the last appear-
ance of a comparable degree of
agreement among economists
preceded the greatest failure of
economic forecasting since the
“permanent prosperity” of the
1920’5. “This monumental error,
which stands as a warning
against a too-easy acceptance of
unanimity, was the general belief
among American economists
that the United States would
suffer inevitably a severe reces-
sion immediately after the last
war.”
Japs and Koreans
A correspondent of Edinburgh
“Scotsman” in Korea has
touched on a little-noted but
important aspect of the clash
there —the tension existing be-
tween Korea and Japan, “In
more ordinary circumstances the
tension is such that usually leads
to war”:
“The hatred between Korea
and Japan is ancient, and the
mutual distrust rather worse than
that between France and Ger-
many,
“Since the seventh century the
Japanese to the Koreans have
been the ruthless bogeymen that
came over the sea, as pirates, as
invaders, as unanswerable nego-
tiators. They murdered the bril-
liant Korean Queen Min in
1895, piercing her with swords
and burning her with kerosene
in her own palace—because she
led the anti-Japanese party.
“In 1910 Korea was declared
a part of the Japanese Empire,
and for thirty years used as an
economic milch-cow by the
Japanese. This was done with
the approval of America and the
Western Powers. Fifty per cent,
of Korea’s rice was sold cheaply
to Japan, and her gold—three
per cent, of the world’s produc-
tion—was sent to Japan on
Japanese terms.
“Nothing was settled between
the two countries at the Japanese
Peace Conference in San Fran-
cisco. In June, 1951, an attempt
to reach a Japanese-Korean
treaty of friendship and com-
merce broke up with sincere ex-
pressions of mutual ill-will. Yet
economically and culturally the
connection between the two
countries is as close as that
between Britain and Ireland.
The chief disagreement at
present is over fishing-rights
“Today the Japanese are not
allowed in Korea. The Japanese
newspaper correspondents ac-
credited to the United Nations
forces are not allowed out of
the military area.... There is a
Korean diplomatic mission with-
out status in Tokyo ; there is no
Japanese representative in Pusan;
and there is no hint of any solu-
tion to the quarrel, no single
gesture of forgiveness or com-
monsense.”
Taxpayer "Bargains"
What leading members of the
Eisenhower Administration will
be personally sacrificing
financially is characterised by
“U.S. News and World Report”
as making them so many excep-
tional “bargains” the taxpayers
will be getting.
Australia has its examples—
Menzies a particularly notable
one. The American listing inci-
dentally shows the “sacrificers’ ”
Administration jobs, in which a
good deal will be heard of some
of them from now on:
CHARLES E. WILSON.—
Has been making $566,200 a
year as head of General Motors.
Now he is going to work for
taxpayers at $22,500 a year as
Secretary of Defence.
* * * *
GEORGE M. HUMPHREY.
—lndustrialist, head of M. A.
Hanna Co. and other enter-
prises, with income reported to
Securities and Exchange Com-
mission alone amounting to
$305,323. He goes to work at
$22,500 as Treasury Secretary.
JOHN FOSTER DULLES.—
Counsel to Sullivan and Crom-
well, one of the biggest law
firms in the U.S. To enter public
service he gave up a partnership
income of about $150,000. Will
serve as Secretary of State at
$22,500 a year.
SINCLAIR WEEKS.—lndus-
trialist and financier. He is giv-
ing up an income that runs into
six figures in order to head the
Department of Commerce at
$22,500.
* * * *
ARTHUR E. SUMMER-
FIELD. —One of the biggest
automobile dealers in the U.S.
Income well in excess of
$lOO,OOO being sacrificed to take
job of running the post-office at
$22,500.
* * * *
HERBERT BROWNELL,
JR. —Partner since 1932 in
Lord, Day & Lord, an old New
York law firm. Giving up a big
partnership income to serve as
Attorney-General at $22,500.
* * *
WINTHROP W. ALDRICH.
—Board chairman of Chase
National Bank, one of America’s
largest. Giving up a salary of
$175,000 to serve at $25,000 as
Ambassador in London.
Korea Figures
From various “U.S. News and
World Report” recordings:
U.S. casualties in two-and-half
years of the Korean war,
128.000, compared with total
U.S. casualties of 105,000 in the
two-and-a-half years of the
Pacific end of World War 11.
Communist losses in Korea,
1.800.000.
All other U.N. countries'
casualties in Korea are put at


Have you got
good taste?
S iO IDflOOyd
t&’„,ol>i7r>?tr vn Vniy-\
(ju
IJJ" , lIMIIIH mmnmii
\jl I
sTiaa I
We are not talking about
books or plays or clothes.
We mean ‘Good taste’ in
the strict sense.
When you drink whisky,
for example, do you really
taste it critically? It’s
always agreeable to be
offered Scotch Whisky.
But it’s memorable when
you’re offered Bell’s Old
Scotch Whisky. Note that'
name— Bell’s Old Scotch
Whisky. Established in 1825.
We’d like you to try Bell’s
Whisky. It brings to mind
the echo of Scottish
breezes, the burbling of,
Scottish burns, the ripple
of ripe barley fields, and
has that slight suggestion
that hints at Highland
peat and heather.
If you can sense the subtle
artistry of Bell’s Old Scotch
Whisky —truly you can call
yourself a connoisseur.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
JJ.
DISTILLERS Perth SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED IB2S
11,000; South Koreans’,
155,000.
Petrol and oil shipped by the
US. to Korea, 12,223,413 tons.
Ammunition, guns, trucks and
supplies shipped by the U.S. to
Korea, 20,314,952 tons.
Thp U.N. side has lost 1254
planes, all except 69 of them
American. Corns have lost about
760.
Direct cost alone to the U.S.
of the Korean war, more than
$15,000,000,000.
Fate of P.-o.-w.
“The United Nations cannot,
knowing what they know,
surrender on the principle of
forcible repatriation [of the
Korean p.-0.-w. who don’t want
to be handed over to the Corns
at any price]. Behind the dead-
lock on this matter is the know-
ledge of what happened to
Russian prisoners in Germany
at the end of the Second World
War.” '
That experience is recalled by
a London “Time and Tide”
correspondent:
“The Western Allies blithely
agreed—for was not Russia an
ally and comrade in arms? —to
the handing-over to Russia of all
Russian prisoners found in the
British, American and French
areas of Germany,
“Now when Hitler had invaded
the Ukraine there were thousands
of Stalin’s subjects who at first
looked to Germany for deliver-
ance from the blessings of the
‘workers’ paradise’. Russian
troops surrendered in very large
numbers. This did not last.
Hitler’s cruelties in the Ukraine
recreated Russian solidarity
behind Stalin, but not before the
Germans had reaped an
immense crop of prisoners.
When these men were handed
over to Stalin at the war’s end,
the Russian State treated them
with merciless cruelty.
“The purpose of this was to
teach Russian troops, by terrible
example, that they must never
surrender. The Russian model
in this matter is standard for all
Communist countries. Forcibly
to repatriate the North Korean
and Chinese prisoners in United
Nations’ hands is to hand them
over to torture and death.”
German Youth
Dr. Adenauer, Chancellor of
the Federal German Republic,
on an aspect of young (West)
Germany which could be most
important this year:
“Some time ago I received a
delegation of young people of all
faiths and professions, and talked
to them at length. Afterward,
there was an open discussion,
and the foreign visitors who par-
ticipated were' especially
impressed with their earnest pre-
occupation with the idea of a
United Europe.
“Politically speaking, the
largest part of our youth
embraces the concepts of
freedom and democracy in
Europe. There is no other
country in which the idea of a
United Europe has found such
response as in Germany.”
Remote Korea
What is perhaps most re-
markable about this London
“Economist” comment is that it
should apply equally to Aus-
tralia :
“It is still- doubtful whether
public opinion in Britain and in
Europe has grasped the true sig-
nificance of the fighting in
Korea.
“It is taking place on the oppo-
site side of the world and in one
of the few areas where British
and European interests are not
immediately affected ; it is all
too easily pigeonholed in Euro-
pean minds as remote and essen-
tially an affair for Americans.
“On this side of the Atlantic
people are well aware of the
dangers that an extension of the
Korean conflict would involve,
but they are not easily per-
suaded to look closely at the
conflict itself. This is a most
dangerous attitude. The war in
Korea is much closer to the
world situation than is usually
understood in this country.
“Not only is it the first genuine
attempt to make a reality of the
dream' of collective resistance ;
New York “Herald Tribune.”
“ER, JUST A MOMENT, MR. VISHINSKY !”
it is also a struggle in which the
greatest of the Powers are deeply
involved. Indeed, the most
extraordinary feature of this
extraordinary war is that for
over two years it has been suc-
cessfully prevented from spread-
ing.
“The essence of the present
world conflict has been com-
pressed into a microcosm within
the fragile geographic frame-
work of one country. This re-
striction of the war has avoided
infinite hurt to the world ; but
it has had the effect of veiling
its universal significance.”
Corns in U.N.O.
Attempts have been made in
Press comment here and in
Britain to “brush off” the Ameri-
can charges that U.N.O. staffs
include a dangerous loading of
Corns,
According to some of these
representations it’s all just
American “witch-hunting.” The
same was suggested when Hiss
and others, eventually proved to
be traitors, were on trial.
The fact in regard to U.N.0.,
says “U.S. News and World Re-
port,” is that “Evidence is grow-
ing that the United Nations is
shot through with Communists
in high places. An informed
estimate suggests that as many
as one half of the 1350 adminis-
trative executives of the U.N. are
either Communists or are people
who willingly do what the Com-
munists want.”
Open Communists, who come
from Communist nations, the re-
port adds, are a mere small
minority among U.N. adminis-
trators. The “hidden Com-
munists” are the real U.N.O.
danger. And:
“Investigators are discovering
that these undercover agents and
sympathisers make a strong
group operating to advance
Communism at the same time
that the organisation is fighting
a war against Communists.
“Among the 377 Americans
who hold responsible posts, as
many as one-third to one-half
are suspected of disloyalty to
the United States. A similar
situation is known to exist
among key employees from
other nations outside the Com-
munist bloc.”
Dragnet Digest
It Still Needs Men. —“As
General Ridgway has very
clearly indicated,” comments
London “Time and Tide,” “we
are still far from the ‘push-
button’ warfare of which
optimists—if optimists they can
be called—have been speaking
and writing for years past.
Infantry may no longer be the
Queen of Battles in the old sense
of that term, at least upon Euro-
pean battlefields, but it is still
the man in the tank, the man
behind the rifle and machine-
gun and howitzer, the man in the
cockpit of the aircraft, who
decides the issue of the contest,
provided that the weapons placed
in his hands are good weapons.”
Japan Today. —lt is, com-
ments a London “Observer”
writer, absurd to think of Japan
today as a cheap-jack country
producing inferior cloth and a
torrent of trinkets and toys which
she is able to sell cheap because
she starves and coerces her
workers at home: “Whatever
one’s opinion of her past be-
havior, she is still in fact a
Power to be reckoned with;
either her people must be reason-
ably satisfied or else—since no
people starve quietly—she must
assert herself as awkwardly as
she can.”
In Corns’ Favor. —Even if
terrorism stops in Malaya, the
Communist threat (comments
Edinburgh “Scotsman”) will not
disappear; “The food-shortage
throughout South-East Asia is
the most potent factor working
in the Communists’ favor in the
long run.”
Historic. Sticking to its
optimism over European unity,
“New York Times” notes what
could be an important historical
event: “The Parliament in The
Hague is the first in the world to
amend its Constitution to permit
a cession of national power to a
supranational authority. This
action was necessary to the rati-
fication of the treaty for the
European Defence Community
and for any similar steps that
may be necessary to enable this
little kingdom, as noted for its
stubborn independence as for its
hard-headed sense of reality, to
play its part in the construction
of a new Europe. This is a
historic precedent the importance
of which can hardly be over-
estimated.”
The Seven Crowns. —As one
resplt of the London Common-
wealth Conference, notes the
“Sunday Times,” the theory of
one all-embracing indivisible
Crown has now clearly gone.
“Instead we have seven Crowns,
and the number will grow. So
the link now is not that abstrac-
tion ‘the Crown,’ but a personal
one in the wearer of the several
Crowns. That does not weaken
the link, but the fact emphasises
how vigilantly it must be safe-
guarded. At this time of fresh
transition we are fortunate in
having as the object of our
common allegiance a young and
much-beloved Queen.”
Uncle Sam in the Mirror. —
New York correspondent of
London “Economist”: “In its
favorite mirror the United States
still sees itself as an ebullient,
generous young nation, sharing
its wealth and its strength with
a world which somehow cannot
seem to catch up. It does not see
so clearly the need for time, for
patience, or for willingness to
understand both the problems of
other peoples and the difficulties
created by American attitudes.”
Indo-China Doubt. —London
“Time and Tide” correspondent:
“The French economy is
stretched to the full by the war
in Indo-China, and it is by no
means certain that the French
may not feel obliged to pull out
from there. If they do, every
other danger in the Far East will
be sharply increased.”
Korea Tie-up. —American in-
volvement in Korea, says “U.S.
News and World Report,” ties-
up there one-third of all U.S.
divisions of troops, one-sixth of
effective U.S. air-power and
nearly a sixth of effective U.S.
fleet strength.
Precedent? Professor of
Russian History at London Uni-
versity Hugh Seton-Watson, in
a “Twentieth Century” article,
provides food for a little wishful-
thinking ; “It is a commonplace
that the Habsburg Empire fell
because its rulers could not
satisfy the conflicting claims of
its nationalities. It is less widely
known that the Soviet Union is
a multi-national State. Of its
200 million inhabitants nearly
half are not Russians.”
Bevanists. —Resemblances to
the other “ ’ists” noted by a
London “Daily Telegraph”
letter-writer; “In foreign affairs
the Bevanites want greatly-
increased trade with the Soviet
Union and her satellites ; want
to stop the West German con-
tribution to the joint defences of
the free countries ; want the ad-
mission of Communist China to
the United Nations, even while
a million Chinese ‘volunteers’
fight an aggressive war against
the United Nations in Korea ;
want to impede the growth of
more friendly relations with
Spain. They seek every chance
to poison Anglo-American re-
lations. All these things are
headlines in Communist policy.”
Strategic-materials Block.
Slow but effective, the blocking
of the strategic-materials flow
to Moscow and co. is getting
results. The free nations (Lon-
don “Economist” notes) have
now developed many special
techniques “to defeat the in-
genious tricks jused by the Com-
munists to smuggle in military
supplies by way of as many as
five intermediate countries.
There is no better evidence of
the value of the control system
than the fact that Soviet agents
have offered 10 times the normal
price for some of the contraband
that they sought to acquire.”
Korea Stalemate. Holding
that there is no hope of a
“local settlement” in Korea,
which seems patent enough, a
London “Time and Tide”
correspondent suggests that very
soon the Free World must face
up to the fact there are only
the two alternatives —either to
get out of Korea or to incur
whatever risks may be involved
in forcing a successful conclu-
sion to the war. “American
opinion will not accept an in-
definite stalemate.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Television
Slowly the strongest sales campaign of
this decade is being limbered. Television
is to be sold to the Australian taxpayer,
sight unseen, against a blank, open
cheque. Never was the expression “pres-
sure-group” more applicable than to
those advocating introduction of TV
here. Apart from isolated and presum-
ably unbiased announcements from a few
Federal Ministers, the bulk of advocacy
in the Pfess has been from manufacturers
directly interested in equipment.
The introduction of TV will be of less
benefit to us than the College-street sub-
way in Sydney. While the latter cost
only a few tens of thousands to satisfy
someone’s whim, TV, as supplied in
capitals the size of Sydney, will cost
millions of pounds annually. And don’t
be deluded that advertising will pay that.
Every man and woman will pay in taxes
for part of the incubus. And anyone
living 30 miles from a large metropolitan
area will be out of range except under
exceptional conditions.
Production-costs of TV-shows in
America have frightened the largest ad-
vertisers, whose lavish spending on radio
has become a byword, Adlai Stevenson
remarked on the “appalling” cost of buy-
ing TV time —the best part of £19,000
(Aust.) for one hour at a favorable time.
The cost may be even more for us. We
lack the population density and technical
slickness of our American friends.
We might wonder how a sparse popu-
lation of fewer than nine millions can
treat a favored few city workers to this
extravagant sop when it is unable to
supply Korean fighter-pilots with decent
aircraft. What earthly good will a few
TV experts do us while we are unable to
transport food quickly and safely in
present times of “peace”?— Buster
(N.S.W.).
Church History
Some missionaries may destroy works
of native art under the impression that
they are “heathen idols” (B. 26 /11 / ’52),
but the first Christians occasionally
showed more sense. Instead of destroy-
ing all the pagan statues they renamed
some of the most artistic examples and
converted them to church use.
About 100 years ago an antiquarian
was able to establish that for some 1700
years the worshippers in an Italian
church had been bowing before a beauti-
ful marble Madonna which was in reality
a statue of Hera (Juno), while a magnifi-
“So—you thought you'd bring
your own hammer !”
cent and ancient bronze statuette, sup-
posed to represent the Virgin and Child,
was Aphrodite (Venus) holding Eros
(Cupid) in her arms.
Those early Christians also did a bit
of “encouraging the growth of new habits
instead of violently uprooting the old”
—many of our holy days are merely
pagan festivals given new names but kept
up on the old date. They also adapted
pagan rituals to Christian purposes.
Within a few centuries began the de-
plorable dark age of Christianity, when
much of the statuary left from the great
days of Greece and Rome was smashed.
It culminated in the greatest act of vandal-
ism of all time, when a mob of Christians,
led by the fanatical Theophilus, burned
most of the contents of the great Alexan-
drian library, in which were stored the
writings of the ancient world.
There are very few idolatrous forms
of worship in the world; they merely
appear so to the ignorant, and are on a
par with the view of fanatical Moslems
regarding Christianity. Incidentally, a
scholarly Mohammedan once told me
that, while Christians were destroying the
works of ancient writers, learned fol-
lowers of the faith of Islam were treasur-
ing copies of them. As a result, much of
the surviving Greek literature owes its
preservation to Mohammedans. —H. A.
Lindsay (S.A.).
Sporting Broadcasts
There may be commercial stations
covering all the races (B. 24/12/’52), but
in Queensland they serve only those in
the immediate vicinity of a city.
In this State, to the best of my know-
ledge, there is no station which broad-
casts races outside Brisbane. Anyone
100 miles from Brisbane may pick up
those stations for six months of the year,
but for the summer months the only
chance of hearing the races is on the
short-wave station of the A.B.C.
“Rann” seems to forget that tennis and
cricket are often broadcast, each ball,
for four days ; that descriptions of these
sports always begin at about 11 a.m. and
continue till about 5.30 p.m.
To give hours of one sport is unfair.
The average race would not take two
minutes to broadcast, and why shouldn’t
we hear the runners for the next race?
There are millions of pounds wrapped-up
in horse-breeding.
If I can’t get race-results on Saturday I
know nothing of them until the follow-
ing Monday-week, when our next news-
papers arrive.
Of those who cannot hear metropoli-
tan commercial broadcasts, more are
interested in racing than any other sport,
particularly those in isolation like my-
self, who spend their lives among horses
and breeding them. — Cargoon (Q.).
Official Selection
In his advocacy of official selection of
the human species (B. 24/12/’52) “K.H.”
apparently wants to establish a Com-
munist aristocracy—the very control he
proposes has its ruthless counterpart in
Russia. Incidentally, Melbourne Cup-
winners undoubtedly are produced by
selective breeding, but the overwhelming
majority of “also-rans” are produced
by precisely the same means.
Peoples are not
made strong by de-
liberate or studied
elimination of weak
individuals. Per-
sonal freedom in all
things, both spiritual
and actual, automati-
cally lifts individuals
and classes to higher
planes of living with
each succeeding
generation, and knits
persons into nations
o f ever - increasing
intelligence and
power. England and
America are pre-
eminent examples of
the process.
Nature disdains
compulsion. Like-
wise, nature almost
always redresses her
mistakes. Indeed, it
is frequently the in-
terference with
natural ‘ bents or
forces which pro-
duces “alcoholics,
idiots, morons and
misfits” and other
minority social evils. Education, of
course, is the fundamental of culture,
but Nature herself is the initial teacher.
Granted that square pegs won’t fit into
round holes, but time and freedom inevit-
ably round the peg. And, as the Com-
munist system proves, despotic elimina-
tion of pegs, square or otherwise, leaves
a preponderance of holes.
Sterilisation isn’t the cure for society’s
ills; that’s why its practice, other than
in exceptional cases, is forbidden in the
legal codes of every race or tribe on
earth. Also, sterilisation is genetically
unnecessary—maniacs, weaklings or what-
have-you do not of necessity beget
maniacs, weaklings or what-have-you. In
fact, in some advanced quarters, environ-
ment is being accepted as more significant
to the subject’s future well-being than
hereditary influences.
Obviously, the machine-age has
nurtured machine-thinking ; mass-pro-
duction developed mass-controls. But
history is heavy with warnings that the
right of the common man to choose his
own mate is as sacred as his right to
“ Let's get out the bath-plugs. Draughts is much easier."
choose his own faith. Interference with
either on a national scale has always
meant national collapse.—P. O. M. C.
(N.S.W.),
Egg Boardfs
So “E.L.J.” says whacko the Egg
Board because one of the board’s
inspectors showed him how to cure his
sick fowls (B. 24/12/’52) —where was the
Agricultural Department, anyway? That's
good “Labor”-Socialist philosophy —the
expense of getting him out of trouble
should be met by the taxpayer.
Before Australians began to accept that
sort of rubbish it was thought that a
poultryfarmer had to know something
about poultry and a dairyman something
about cows. Now “E.L.J„” like all good
Australians of this age of planners, main-
tains that he has no responsibility to run
his place efficiently—“the Government”
should accept the responsibility and
ensure him a maximum return for the
minimum effort.
The catch, which he and others refuse
to see, is that the public has to pay in
taxes and in the ridiculous price of eggs
and of every other commodity produced
in Australia, from milk to machinery.
“E.L.J.” says that without the Egg
Board the small man would be flounder-
ing in a sea of difficulties. If he can’t
swim he shouldn’t dive in, and he
certainly shouldn’t expect the taxpayer to
keep his head above water. — Schoolie
(N.S.W.).
«
Repat.
A soldier haemorrhaged from the
stomach while on active service. After
hospital treatment abroad and at home
he was discharged as permanently
medically unfit. His disability was not
recognised by Repat. or the appeal
tribunal as “caused by or aggravated by
war service.”
By an amendment to the Act his dis-
ability was later recognised, and he was
granted treatment and pension.
Although it is now recognised that his
disability is due to war service and that
he was discharged with that disability, his
pension is not retrospective to date of
discharge.
The soldier was discharged in May,
1942. In Feb., 1950, Repat. commissioners
approved a pension effective from August,
1949. Further representations were made
and finally, exercising the fullest extent of
their powers under Section 29, Repatria-
tion Act, the commissioners approved
retrospective payment from, December 23,
1948.
No matter what the moral rights, legally
there the matter had to rest.
The Act needs amending to cover these
cases. During 1942-48, when no treatment
or pension was received, this soldier was
ill and lost much time from work, and
because he still had his family to keep
often stayed on the job when he should
have been under medical care,
In 1944 he finally collapsed, and an
operation removed half of his stomach,
He was away from work over three
months. Economic circumstances forced
him back to work months before he was
well enough.
For those years of physical suffering
he receives no compensation ; nothing for
the financial loss during that time. How
do I know all this? It happened to me.
The 1944 operation was not a complete
success, and in 1952 I again collapsed
and was admitted to Repat. General
Hospital, Heidelberg (Vic.).
What a different story! No grouch at
all after five-and-a-half weeks in that
wonderful place. Getting the best of
treatment and seeing the healing of other
ex-Diggers showed Repat. in far different
perspective—doctors, sisters and staff
right on the job, and every care taken to
relieve pain.
The ease with which one may approach
the M.O.s, the attentive care of the sisters
during all stages of one’s illness, the little
extra kindnesses (that extra “cupper” at
the right time) shown by the staff are
appreciated more than one can tell them.
—M. E. (Vic.).
Wot, no Vets?
* Melbourne University has courses for
art appreciation and is going to have a
course for union secretaries, but it has
no veterinary courses in a State which
depends on the horse for a lot of its busi-
ness and half its pleasure.—C. Q. (Vic.).
Port Hunter
I lived for many years in a deltaic
region surrounded by floods, erosions,
silts and reclamations —round about the
great delta of the Irrawaddy—and I
can’t help thinking what a wicked waste
it is to dump more thar/two million cubic
yards of Hunter Valley topsoil into the
sea (B. 24/12/’52).
Surely, with all that space among the
mud islands of the delta of the Hunter
something could have been done to pre-
serve all the spoil lifted by the Dutch
dredger—new and valuable land gained,
against the cost of dredging.
As it is, little but temporary relief will
have been gained by the operation. The
next flood will inevitably bring down
more of the vast accumulations of silt
now firmly established between Maitland
and Newcastle.
In 1947 the Hunter flood-mitigation
committee concluded “that no alternative
waterway between the river and the sea
should be provided.”
Since then, however, floods have
become more of a menace than ever and,
with increasing cultivation of the valley,
can only get worse.
Suction-dredging and the pumping of
spoil - through pipelines supported on
pontoon sections is no new operation. In
Rangoon it was carried on over 40 years
ago and resulted in -great works of river-
training and reclamation. Similar condi-
tions exist in Port Hunter.— Shellback
(N.S.W.).


“THE LETTERS
OF RACHEL HENNING”
Illustrated by Norman Lindsay
with over 40 superb pen-drawings
PRICE 7/6
Obtainable at bookshops, or at “The Bulletin” offices
in Brisbane, Melbourne or Sydney. Or post-free from
THE BOOK DEPARTMENT, “THE BULLETIN”
BOX 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY
BOX 55a, G.P.0., MELBOURNE
BOX 569 J, G.P.0., BRISBANE
Australian Book-publishing
Drought Losses
Professor Wadham, Dean of the
Faculty of Agriculture, Melbourne Uni-
versity, states that each major drought
costs us 20-30 million sheep and one
million-head of cattle. Indeed graziers
spend the normal years breeding stock to
replace their own and other people’s
losses.
Also, says the professor, if it were
not for drought losses another 150,000
tons of meat each year would be
available.
In view of these staggering losses it is
amazing to see great quantities of fodder
available with no buyers for it at a
reasonable price.
Last summer our New England (N.S.W.)
stock-routes were crowded with emaciated
cattle from both the North Coast and
north-west. This year thousands-Of bales
of choice clover and pasture-hay have
been made, and many graziers with well-
improved properties have a surplus for
sale. This hay is being offered at £lO a
ton, but practically none is being bought
and stored by graziers who cannot grow
fodder themselves.
Unlimited supplies of oats are for sale
at ss. a bushel, and silos to store them are
advertised for about £250 for a 2000-
bushel unit. It seems incredible, with
present high values for sheep, that any
owner would fail to protect his flocks
when the cost is so reasonable—and also
deductible from his income tax.
The most unfortunate effect of the low
market-price of hay and grain is that pro-
ducers will go in for other forms of pro-
duction or grow enough only for their
own use. Thus, when drought comes there
simply won’t be fodder available at any
price. Stock losses will be as heavy as
ever.
Fodder can be produced at a reason-
able price especially if cut from pastures
in flush seasons. However, modern
machinery is essential, and no farmer will
spend £lOOO to £2OOO on a pick-up-baler
if his surplus hay cannot be sold at a
profitable price. Very few are prepared to
store fodder for sale in drought-time, as
that involves a heavy capital cost in silos,
sheds and the value of the material stored.
The policy of so many Australians in
taking a chance with drought may be due
to our gambling spirit or to a carryover
from pioneering days when such risks
had to be run. In either case it is long
overdue for a drastic change.—W. W. S.
(N.S.W.).
Jamboree Log
A far cry back from Greystanes, at
about the turn of this century, something
new in Christmas presents for boys
appeared in a little squarish book, with
a post-office red cover —Scouting for
Boys, by R. S. S. Baden-Powell. Robert
Stevenson Smith the initials stood for;
they belonged to a major in the British
“Anyone for Waratah-street?"
Army who became a world-hero over the
defence of Mafeking.
Within a few years his name lost its
association with “Mafficking” and be-
came famous again, even wider about the
world, for an international movement
which soon rivalled the Salvation Army,
It all began with that little book, a mine
of material for aid in the adventure of
boyhood. It showed the art of tying
knots in ropes, and how to use the same
for climbing trees and fording streams,
skills with knives, sticks and other things
for personal handicrafts^; it opened a
world of secret signs and signals ; and
it taught the mysteries of tracking and
interpretation from study of ground,
trees, birds, animals and weather, and the
rules for silent movement in the pursuit
of intelligence about such things.
It lifted “playing Indians” into a
science. Never had a man so found his
way into the heart of youth. Baden-
Powell’s Scouting for Boys took hold
like a grassfire. It ceased to be merely
a game and became an I.Q. test to which
every boy responded with his whole zest.
The Baden-Powell hat, shirt and shorts
became his uniform and the badges of
excellence in the craft were worn as
honorable distinctions. Before many
years were over grown men were called
upon to become boys again and to qualify
themselves to develop an organisation of
scouting; and the spread of the Boy
Scout cult throughout the British Empire
astonished its founder.
Its extension to other countries also
went ahead in the decade or so between
the first edition of 8.-P.’s Scouting and
the outbreak of the First World War.
Whatever else of civilisation of the nine-
teenth century that war killed, it did not
stop the Boy Scout movement through-
out the world; indeed, the League of
Nations idea bore witness to its exist-
ence. Every continent, race and color
today attests the universality of its appeal.
No conception of international brother-
hood has ever won such range or success
in common understanding. Its value in
that respect exceeds even its value in the
general education of the young mind ;
and upon the brotherhood appeal was
built that crowning virtue of service to
others as the highest purpose of indi-
vidual excellence in body and mind and
character.
The man who began it by applying to
the kids about him his understanding of
what made Tom Sawyer tick can hardly
have foreseen that he had lit a fire which
would never be put out. —F. M. C.
(N.S.W.).
Teachers
Teachers would have fewer pupils in
the class if there were more teachers, of
which there seems to be a desperate
shortage (B. 3/12/’52). The pay and
hopes for rapid advancement are not
enough to entice many intelligent, well-
educated young people to the profession,
and the necessary examination qualifica-
tions are too stiff for many youngsters
who would make excellent teachers.
I knew personally a few teachers w'ho
were in the game only because of the
much-lowered standards during the war.
They were excellent and popular teachers,
especially among the infants. With
ability tests, and all the other tests now
used to place people in suitable posi-
tions, it should be possible to find and
use successfully “born teachers” who
would otherwise be debarred from the
profession by limited “swot-power.”—
Q. Ree (Tas.).
“The Australians Boom” (B.
10/12/’52) gives but one side of the
picture. Times are phenomenal for Aus-
tralian literature, but not in the sense
which the article claimed. In some
directions the outlook has never been
gloomier.
Since 1946 it has become ever harder
for a new author to break into the Aus-
tralian novel-writing field. Every rise in
the basic wage has bumped up the cost
of printing and binding. With a corres-
ponding rise in the price of paper, that
has forced publishers to decline to take
chances on the work of new writers,
Today the manager of one publishing
house says emphatically that, unless he
can foresee a sale of at least 10,000 copies
of a novel by a new author, he can’t
undertake to publish it.
These conditions have forced publishers
to concentrate on factual works, such as
histories or documentaries, where there
is little risk of the book becoming a
remnant which will have to be sacrificed
at a price well below cost. With novels,
they have reprinted old favorites, have
brought out Australian editions of works
which have proved popular overseas, or
have published larger and larger editions
of the works of established Australian
authors. For the writer whose reputation
was made before the rise in costs, every-
thing is now easy. He or she has only
to write another work of the type for
which there is an assured reading public.
Such a work can be mediocre, but the
publisher can undertake to bring it out
without fear of loss, provided it follows
the pattern of previ-
ous works by that
particular writer.
The outlook is
darkest in the case of
juveniles. Australian
publishers find it
impossible to com-
pete in this field with
the Enid Blyton-
Biggles flood from
Britain. In conse-
quence, the publish-
ing of Australian
juveniles has almost
ceased, save for re-
prints of old favor-
ites such as the works
of Mary Grant Bruce.
These are sure sellers
—parents who en-
joyed them in their
own youth will buy
them as presents for
their children.
Any publisher will
tell you that during
the last six years he
has been forced to
decline a number of
good novels by new
writers. Before the
calamitous rise in costs he would have
been glad to try them out on the reading
public in the hope of discovering another
author whose work would sell.
Only one remedy offers any chance of
a cure —a reduction of the risk taken by
the publisher.
To this end, groups of competent
people could read all the really promising
manuscripts of first novels now being
received —and rejected—by publishers.
Members could then undertake the
revision which can raise a “not-quite-
good-enough” manuscript to the very high
standard required today. It would be
difficult to overstate the improvement*
which can be wrought by competent
revision. The classical example is that
of Gilman Hall, the American editor who
turned the 10,000 - word, slipshod,
rambling original manuscripts of O.
Henry into the 2500-word masterpieces
which appeared in print.
These groups could also arrange col-
laborations between authors. Most first-
attempts at novels have one main fault.
Character-drawing may be admirable, but
there is nothing worth while in the way
of plot, background or dramatic incidents.
Another effort may contain wonderful
material in the way of background and
plot, but the characters are lifeless
puppets. If the writers of two such
works could exchange manuscripts, a
couple of good books might result.
Any such groups would have to forget
all about “literary merit” in a work and
judge it only by the thing which makes a
novel sell —reader interest. An Australian
Book of the Month Club would have to
be started at the same time to guarantee
sufficient sales of the sponsored works
to enable sizeable editions of them to be
published.
Such a scheme might do more for
young Australian authors than anything
yet accomplished by the Commonwealth
Literary Fund. — H. A. Lindsay (S.A.).
Mariners’ Meals
“X.M.N.” (B. 24/ 12/’52) should have
stayed at sea a little longer after reach-
ing the position of third-mate.
I quote the tramp steamer Avondene,
of the Dene Line, which left Queensland
ports for Antwerp with 8000 tons of con-
centrates on 29/12/’52. Her crew get
eggs to eat every day, and her owners
gave every member of the crew one extra
“Nurse! A flea!”
day’s pay for Christmas. She is a tramp
registered in London.
Despite “X.M.N.’s” assumption, I did
serve in tramps, one being so primitive
that she had no electric light. Her crew
forward got only two meals daily from
the galley, the evening meal consisting
of the remains of lunch.
That all went out years ago. As early
as 1940 I was in a tramp which housed her
crew two in a cabin. Though I swal-
lowed the anchor in ’47, I’m still in the
shipping business, and can quote many
ships nowadays which house their crews
with a separate room to every man. Some
even have washing-machines installed.
What would “X.M.N.” say to a tramp
on which the cooks, stewards and wire-
less-operator are all women? One such
loaded here for the Continent a few
months ago.—E. J. P. (Q.).
Empties
The prohibitive cost of returning
empties from New Guinea (B. 10/12/’52)
has a parallel in N. S. Wales. Store-
keepers and others are charged for pack-
ing-cases containing goods from metro-
politan warehouses, but it is uneconomical
to return the larger cases from inland
towns, as their size brings them under
the higher transport indexes which are
based on cubic measurement. So the
cost of these cases is passed on to the
customer.
One type of empty that is ignored,
although it must be of some value, is
the empty tin. Countless tins of all
descriptions are thrown out each year,
despite acute shortage of tinplate.
It would be interesting to know what
happens to empty tins in other countries.
—Ann (N.S.W.).


r
SURROUND
YOUR FIRESIDE
WITH BEAUTY
AT SURPRISINGLY
LOW COST
DESIGN: No. ■8: HEIGHT: 371"?
WIDTH: 6'6i"; PRICE (at works):
£l2/18/6
Add the finishing touch to your living-room.
festal a ceramic glazed buff-white Terra Cotta
Surround; designs are readily available for open
and gas fires and "Kosi". "Wonderheat and
"Warmray" stoves.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, or write to
Wunderlich Limited, Box 474, G.P O Sydney, to
illustrated booklet ol designs and fixing details.
T^yO-CUtc/^tlcCrL
Fireplace surrounds
OP GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
Chemistry Serving Primary industry
SauiwKiffM
KLEEPj
KS IfUaM
fiSpinWFLY DRESSING eSI
■ r* * ,
♦/%) (0\
mixes easily with water
KL HP
THE TOP LINE SHEEP BLOWFLY DRESSING
Manufactured by Australia's largest producers of DDT.
TAUBMAN’S CHEMICALS PTY. LIMITED
Sydney, Newcastle. Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sire Survey
“Relwof”: Without some
form of sire-selectivity, no
guarantee of improvement in
dairy herds can be given. Yet
many breeders cull their bulls
from the herd before their value
as sires can be properly assessed.
The greatest improvement in
breeding can only come from
selecting bulls by results shown
by their progeny and obtaining
as many offspring as possible
from superior bulls.
Pn Victoria, as elsewhere,
some bulls of outstanding value
have been discarded early in
life. The records of their
daughters have since revealed the
loss to dairying.
Every year less than halt or
the sires are progeny-tested. The
reason some owners give is fear
of inbreeding, but that fetish is
demonstrably false. Close in-
breeding can always be avoided
either by mating a second bull
with the daughters or grand-
daughters of the first, or by
selling the bull with the option
of later repurchase.
Others hold that a bull’s fer-
tility declines progressively after
the fifth year —another fallacy,
since many older bulls compare
favorably in fertility with the
youngsters. .
Sire surveys are issued in
three stages—preliminary, inter-
mediate and final, which covers
the first, second and succeeding
lactations respectively. An
official list of proved sires is
published annually, and this is
of considerable value in indicat-
ing those bulls and those strains
of bulls which are leaving-stock
of definite value.
The basis of inclusion: All
bulls 50 per cent, of whose
daughters under official survey
have produced an average of at
least 3501 b. of butterfat, to-
gether with certain animals with
slightly lower figures, but
whose average increase is con-
sidered sufficient to warrant
their inclusion.
To overcome any fears of in-
breeding by too long a retention
of any one sire, why not adopt
the system of bull circles? The
circulating of bulls under
veterinary examination would
ensure their retention until they
were proved. Superior sires
would thus be conserved for the
benefit of the district in which
they are discovered.
Rotational Grazing
“Jumbuck”: Rotational-graz-
ing is not followed to the extent
it should be. Cost of subdivi-
sion quickly returns a high rate
of interest. One big paddock
subdivided into 10 small pad-
docks will carry more stock to
the acre and carry them better
if rotational-grazing is practised
than will the original area, and,
whilst each paddock and/or pad-
docks are being spelled for from
three to five weeks, the pastures
get a chance to mature and thus
give a higher percentage of fibre
in the ration.
Good returns from a dairy
herd are almost impossible
unless there is rotational-graz-
ing, but with all classes of stock
a change of pastures is essential
if health and condition are to
be maintained.
Rotational-grazing counteracts
erosion to a big extent, the first
step towards the washing-away
and gullying of the soils being
the flogging of the pastures. By
changing stock from one pad-
dock to another and allowing
paddocks to recover in turn
denudation rarely eventuates.
Once scalded patches appear in
a paddock as a result of parts
being eaten out the first stage of
erosion has begun.
Rotational-grazing will check
erosion, but the real advantage
to be gained by spelling pad-
docks is the improved nutri-
tious values of the pastures that
eventually result. Conservation
of water and fodder and rota-
tional-grazing go hand in hand.
Antibiotics for Poultry
“Bio”: One of the first essen-
tials in feeding any kind of stock
is that they should get sufficient
protein in their feed, not only
for body-maintenance but also,
as in the case of
poultry, for the additional de-
mands of production.
One of the next essentials is
that such stock as pigs and
poultry must have a certain
part of their protein derived
from an animal source. It is
for this reason that meatmeal
has given such good results in
poultry-feeding.
In U.S.A. in recent years soy-
bean production has expanded
considerably, and much of this
large production goes into stock-
feeding. The protein of soy-
beans, however, is of rather
poor quality. It has therefore
been found necessary to supple-
ment it freely with protein from
an animal source.
It was thought that Vitamin
812, which has been isolated in
pure form from liver, and which
is richly contained in animal
protein, would suffice in place
of animal protein. Although it
serves to some extent, it has not
been found to be sufficient.
Other factors are apparently
essential, if there is a deficiency
of animal protein in the feed,
even if the total protein may be
adequate.
It is now thought that the
crude waste fermentation liquid
derived from the commercial
manufacture of some of the anti-
biotics, aureomycin, etc., con-
tains some of these essential
protein factors. At least their
addition to poultry-feeds in
U.S.A. is giving results and is
big business.
Greens Save Grain for Pigs
“Sundowner”; Green-feed, as
well as being rich in vital vitamin-
A, can save pig-raisers a large
amount of grain. The N. S.
Wales Department of Agricul-
ture points out that this type of
feed adds bulk to otherwise
heavy-concentrated grain-rations
and increases the contentment of
pigs.
For best results feed should
be young and leafy, because as
crops approach maturity the
proportion of indigestible fibre
“It must be going to rain .”
rises and the protein, mineral and
vitamin content falls.
Stalky green-feed, such as
maize and sorghum, is lower in
food-value than such leafy crops
as lucerne-clovers, young grasses
and young cereal crops.
From half to threequarters of
an acre per brood-sow is a
reasonable allowance when
animals can be grazed, but a
system of subdivision and rota-
tional-grazing must be adopted
to ensure that the pigs get a
constant supply of fresh, leafy
material. Crops should be cut
at the stage of highest feeding-
value if grazing cannot be
provided.
Bee-feed Substitutes
“H.C,”: The wet season,
y/hich caused many eucalypts to
run to new foliage instead of
flowering, plus destruction of
scores of acres of gum-blossoms
by insect pests, is bringing starva-
tion and death to bees in parts
of N. S. Wales.
As fodder will be scarce until
the blossoming of the yellow-
box —which varies according to
district—substitutes for honey
and pollen should be fed the
hive. For honey, make a syrup
of equal quantities (in volume)
of sugar and water, bring to
boiling-point and feed warm but
not hot to the bees inside the
hive. Second-best is honey
thinned-down with water, but
the honey must come from
disease-free sources.
Substitutes for pollen are hard
to find, and apiarists who can
should push towards the coast,
where pollen flora is usually
plentiful. When that is not
possible, follow the U.S.A. bee-
keeper’s formula: four parts
soybean flour and one part dry
skim-milk powder fed in dry or
paste form.
To make the paste, mix one
pound of substitute with a quart
of sugar syrup made with two
parts of sugar to one part of
water. Spread over paper-trays
and place inside the hive.
Where soybean flour is not
available, use bran and feed the
mixture in dry-powder form. If
this is distributed evenly over a
number of plates in sheltered,
open places the bee population
will spread itself instead of con-
gregating on one spot. More
even feeding will result. A tem-
porary roof makes for easier
feeding in all weathers.
Trees in the Mallee
“Ex-R.S.M.”: In the Mallee
country south of the Murray,
where the rainfall averages
13.5 in., I saw not only tall,
flourishing poplars, pines, blue-
gums and other trees normally
associated with the 20in.-and-
over rainfall-belt but also a
large orchard of apricots, plums,
almonds and similar fruit-trees
bearing heavy crops and look-
ing as if they received regular
irrigation. None of them, how-
ever, received any water save the
rainfall.
Their owner said that when
he first tried to grow trees on
his property he followed the ad-
vice given in books and pam-
phlets that a fairly large hole
should be excavated and filled
with manured soil, and that the
planted tree should be given
regular watering during the first
year. In nearly every case he
found that trees planted in this
way died.
He dug up some of the dead
ones and found that the loose,
manured, watered earth had
attracted hordes of grubs which
had eaten out the root-system.
He then made an experiment.
A patch of reddish sandy loam
overlying clay was surrounded
by a rabbit-proof fence and fal-
lowed in the autumn. It was
cultivated thereafter whenever
weed-growth made this necessary.
As soon as the rains of the fol-
lowing autumn had softened the
ground the evergreen trees were
planted, followed by the decidu-
ous ones in the spring.
In every case the seedlings
were placed in a hole just large
enough to receive the roots.
Each was given one bucket of
water at planting. After that no
water was given, but regular cul-
tivation prevented moisture-
robbing weeds from growing.
The subsoil around the roots
being solid, no grubs attacked
them. The moisture conserved
by keeping the top-soil stirred to
a depth of a couple of inches,
proved ample.
This success is a striking ex-
ample of what can be done by a
man who uses his powers of ob-
servation and deduction instead
of relying on hard-and-fast rules.
Swede Turnips
“Hortus”: Sow swedes in
January or February. Prepare
ground now. Swedes are shal-
low-rooters, and so plant-food
must be kept as near the surface
as possible. Plough deeply now
and then replough lightly just
before sowing. Any type of soil
seems to suit, but a sandy loam
that has been enriched by a
previous crop keeps the mois-
ture-supply best.'
A 20in. rainfall is a good
minimum. The essential factor
is wiping out weed-growth be-
fore sowing. In this Gosford
(N.S.W.) district our normal
rotation scheme is leguminous
crop (adding nitrogen); green-
er leaf-crop (requiring nitro-
gen) ; root-crop (not requiring
as much nitrogen, but potash
and phosphate). However, my
best turnip crop to date was
sown after a greenfeast-pea crop.
Pea-plants were allowed to die
off and then ploughed under.
The seeding-rate is about 21b.
per acre, with £cwt. to lewt. of
super. Some growers like a
3-to-l mixture of super, and
potash.
Distance between drills de-
pends on type of cultivator to be
used for inter-tillage. Keep the
soil moving to prevent weed-
growth and to retain as much
moisture as possible. Choose a
dull day for thinning-out to
12in. to 15in. in drills.
If aphis-infestation is noticec
after swedes have become
firmly established, tops may be
grazed without any setback to
growth and development of
turnips.
Turnips may be stored in long
pits and used as a source of
winter-feed in drier and colder
parts. Champion Purple Top
seems as good a variety as any.
Peninsular Cattle
“Oxo”: The experiment of
shipping cattle by landing-
barge from Cape York Penin-
sula for slaughter at the Queerah
meatworks, Cairns, is being
watched with interest by a num-
ber of cattlemen.
At present the only outlet
Peninsula cattlemen have for
their fat cattle is to walk them
hundreds of miles, in which,
naturally, they lose all their
bloom and a lot of weight.
A Cairns shipping company
has fitted the L.S.T. Wewak with
10 pens, each of which will hold
10 cattle, and 200 cattle are to
be shipped in the first experi-
ment. The Australian Meat and
Grazing Company has built
yards at Princess Charlotte Bay,
36 sea-hours from Queerah, and
the necessary unloading yards


you 1 ~
BABCOCK
Whether your requirement is 1000 Ib./hr. of process
steam at 100 Ib./sq. in., saturated ... or steam for
100,000 kw. of power at 1500 Ib./sq. in., and 1050 °F.,
from one boiler unit, BABCOCK can supply it; and
not only the boiler but also all the essential auxiliary
services—coal handling plant, ash disposal equip-
ment, pipework ... in fact, a complete steam raising
plant, designed and manufactured entirely within
the BABCOCK organisation, backed by 75 years of
experience in steam engineering and by a world-wide
service.
Manufacturers of: Water-tube Boilers; Super-
heaters; Economisers; Air Heaters; Water-wall
Furnaces; Pulverised Fuel Plants; Travelling Grate
Stokers; Spreader Stokers; Soot Blowers for Manual
or Automatic Operation; Pipework; Attemperators;
Coal and Ash Handling Plant; “Hydrojet” Ashing
System; “Hydrovac” Dust Handling System; Cranes,
Transporters, Conveyors, Wagon Tipplers.
Equipment for: Oil and Gas Burning, Waste Heat
Utilisation, Bagasse, Black Liquor and other fuels.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Office and Agencies in all States
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
boi
•tOV
£2
amß^iiB3nas
♦k* '>
P^ilMTuTTim.
lB5B
HOSPIT
i"" a “°- •ottiio in
&?’,»?• *?i tT ST - FET ”S. ADELAIDE. 1
, T °U«« SCOTT * TOUIV. LIM
T5T.22.12
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
When the
occasion calls
for the best!
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” A Review of Markets, Financial
Conditions, Company Accounts, Mining Activities. Published by
“The Bulletin.” Price 2/-.
/ •
have been built at Skeleton
Creek, near the meatworks.
On the first trip the Wewak
will be towed, but if the experi-
ment is a success an engine will
be installed so that she can
travel under her own power.
Cattlemen in the Peninsula
lately asked the United Graziers
Association of Queensland to
investigate the possibility of
air-freighting beef from the
Peninsula to Cairns. If the ship-
ping of live cattle and air-freight-
ing of beef prove economic
propositions the Peninsula
should begin an era of prosperity
which has been the dream of its
graziers since the first days of
settlement there.
New L.B.E. Branding-fluid
“C.S.”: The C.5.1.R.0. Wool
Textile Research Laboratories
have made further improve-
ments to L.B.E. sheep-branding
fluid. A slightly modified for-
mula has been devised to pro-
duce a “New L.8.E.” brand
which does not run when rain
falls on sheep immediately after
branding.
In a test near Geelong sheep
were branded in the rain and left
out in the wet for the rest of the
day. Although 20 points fell the
markings remained as clear as
when put on.
“Lanoline - base Emulsion”
branding-fluid was developed by
the C.5.1.R.0. after seven years’
investigations. It will hold in
the fleece from shearing to shear-
ing and yet wash out in textile-
mill scouring liquors yielding a
fabric indistinguishable from
that woven from unmarked
wool.
In the past up to 2 per cent,
of Australia’s wool-clip has been
spoilt by unscourable brands. At
current prices L.B.E. branding-
fluid should save wool worth
millions of pounds every year.
L.B.E. fluid has been widely
used by Australian graziers this
season, and is now also manu-
factured and marketed in Eng-
land, New Zealand and South
Africa.
A Fire Risk
“H.C.”: On its own nitrate of
soda is harmless. As a provider
of large quantities of oxygen
any combustible organic sub-
stance impregnated with it or
in contact with it becomes highly
inflammable. Sparks lighting on
bags or organic material to
which nitrate of soda is sticking
can cause bad fires. Since it
renews its supply of oxygen as
it burns, the fires are hard to
extinguish.
To reduce the risk, store the
chemical or bags in buildings
Well removed from motors,
engines, fires or inflammable
materials. Don’t allow smoking
near the building and don’t
carry matches when handling it.
When using it in the field don’t
stack the bags—full or empty—
against a field of standing maize,
Wheat, barley or‘cane. Don’t
store the empty bags till they’ve
been washed in several changes
f>f water and well dried. Shak-
ing the bags after they’ve been
turned doesn’t remove fire risks.
In dealing with nitrate-of-
soda fires apply water in volume,
but don’t scatter the material.
When the nitrate is in liquid
form use sand or clean soil as
extinguishers. Those frequently
storing the chemical in large
Quantities should have their
buildings and commodities
covered by fire insurance.
Spanish Merinos
“Outback”: It was only neces-
sary to see Merinos in Spain to
appreciate the great job Aus-
tralian studmasters had done,
said O. V. Holcombe, Vuna,
Whitewood, Hughenden (Q.), on
his return from a world tour.
The Spanish Merino was a
light cutter, with bare belly and
very long legs. There were no
fences, and shepherds looked
after 80 to 200 sheep.
In Britain, Holcombe found
sheep losses comparable with
those in Australia, despite the
extent to which sheep there are
“nursed.” Australian sheepmen
had to contend with drought,
British flockowners with wet
conditions, footrot and worms.
Dipping seemed to give im-
munity from fly trouble.
Blights and Pests
“H.C.”; When late-blight of
tomatoes and potatoes is
troublesome, infection can be
halted by regular applications of
Bordeaux mixture 3:4: 50. Cop-
per oxychloride in the propor-
tion of 11b. to 20gal. of water is
another good deterrent.
To prevent caterpillar damage
to tomatoes use a spray of 2oz.
of arsenate of lead to sgal. of
water or loz. of D.D.T. to 6gal.
of water.
Ear-worm, which threatens
young corn-cobs, can be wiped
out by spraying with loz. of
wettable D.D.T., 50 per cent,
strength, to 6gal. of water.
Regular doses of D.D.T. pow-
der will keep down the cabbage-
moth.
Young Fruit-trees
“Hortus”; Don’t worry about
the small fruit-supply appearing
on trees up to three years of
age. At that stage of their life
they should be making vigorous
growth and a solid, well-bal-
anced framework on which
future crops depend.
It’s best to remove fruit when
it has reached marble-size.
Young citrus grafted on tri-
foliate rootstock have a com-
mon tendency to produce quite a
small crop. Take off all the tiny
fruit, otherwise tree-develop-
ment will be noticeably ham-
pered.
Salt for Beetroot
“Cheno”: Some farmers on
the N.S.W. South Coast who
grow beetroot in the home
garden have apparently con-
cluded that beetroot originated
from a wild plant which grew
near the seashore, and that it
therefore requires salt if taken
away from that habitat. Any-
way, they use salt as a fertiliser
for it—with excellent results.
About lib. of coarse butchers’
salt for each 4ft. or sft. length
of row is about the right appli-
cation. This treatment has
recently been announced in
U.S.Ai as a good scientific dis-
covery, N.S.W. South Coast
farmers have been doing it for
many years.
Maize Yield
“H.S.”: Many farmers still
apply super, with seed at sow-
ing, believing that sulphate of
ammonia costs far too much. To
recoup the extra expense of
applying lewt. s.a. (£2 per cwt.)
with super, at sowing and
another 1 cwt. per acre as a side-
dressing when plants are lOin.
high would require an additional
five bushels per acre of maize.
However, agronomist I. R.
Scott states that in the U.S.A.
Icwt. s.a. plus super, at sowing,
with a lOcwt. side-dressing at
lOin. high, gave an increased
yield of up to 220 bushels per
acre. So the small outlay pays
in the long run.
Improving Citrus Irrigation
“Big Billy”: A survey by the
S.A. Department of Agriculture
in Murray River setlements re-
veals that irrigation of citrus can
be improved by closer attention
to timing and by making
furrows closer to the butts of
trees.
The aim in this is reduc-
ing to a minimum the moisture-
stress periods in the orchard, and
the department says the grower
can expect the following bene-
fits :
Greater average fruit-size by
avoiding excessive rise of the
fruit crop as a reservoir of mois-
ture to meet vital requirements
during heat and high winds ;
elimination of partial defolia-
tion when all available moisture
reserves have been used up ;
protection against excessive De-
cember drop if particular atten-
tion is given to watering in early
summer (November) to avoid
even short periods of moisture-
stress.
Burning Dead Stock ■
“Myrr”: Sheep carcasses can
be burnt by spraying them with
crude oil from a stirrup-pump.
First spray with a small amount
of oil and light up. As the flames
die down spray again, turning the
carcass with a fork to get it all
afire. The carcass will be com-
pletely converted to a greyish-
brown ash in about 20 minutes.
Allow the fire to burn as long
as it will to destroy disease germs
and maggots in the soil. The
method has advantages over a
wood-fire in the saving of labor
and in giving greater control
over the flames. Cattle carcasses
can be destroyed by the same
means.
Hints for the Farm
“C.A.A.”: During the height
of summer make sure apiaries
are within 200 yards of water
and not in scrub or depressions
that exclude cooling breezes.
The bees will be helped if water
is splashed on to sticky combs
before they are returned to the
hives. If water is being trans-
ported to the apiary put open
containers in the shade and
cover the surface of the water
with chunks of cork.
“Billjim”: Red-spider, which
often infests pot-plants, can be
dealt with simply by holding the
plants upside-down beneath a
fast-running cold-water tap. If
numbers preclude this operation
spray with summer (white) oil.
“B.B.”: As soon as asparagus
season is finished mulch the bed
of manure with blood-and-bone
at four ounces per square yard
to allow the roots to build up
reserves for the following season.
“Farmer Bill”: Fowl-ticks
leave the birds in daytime to hide
in timber cracks and return after
dark. To clean them out, spray
the fowlhouse timber and bark
of near-by trees with a kerosene
emulsion once a fortnight.
Trunks and branches of trees
should be painted with a solution
of 1 per cent, agricultural D.D.T.
every four weeks. Pepper-trees
have a bad reputation for harbor-
ing the pest in their bark.
“My”: It’s most dangerous
to put stock on Sudan-grass in
the short, dark-green stage when
the cyanide content is high.
Second-growth in a stand after
pasturing or removal of a hay
crop is especially risky. Sudan-
grass 2ft. or more high, whether
first- or is low in
cyanide and relatively safe.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
The irregular Christmas rains were due to the indeter-
minate sunspot pattern; there is now only one northern
sunspot visible, and these do not usually give any very
definite result.
There is no rain of importance due until the second
part of the month. There is also a possibility of a repeat
on the astronomical cycle of the rains which failed a month
ago. This series may come at the close of January.
If the above points get suitable sunspot support they
should give a good seasonal situation.


1
0
'VV/IO
- -.
m !r m
S s .P.m
million
ick e y
v
Presented each week direct
from Hollywood, the
hilarious adventures of
Andy Hardy are firmly es-
tablished as a top listening
favorite with more than a
Australians. Featuring M
Rooney, Lewis Stone, Fay Holden —
the stars who made the M.G.M.
series famous —the warm, delightful
comedy of “The Hardy Family” is
radio entertainment at its best.
“77ie Hardy Family ” is presented with the good wishes
of the makers of Cadbury's Chocolate by the Macquarie
Broadcasting Service over a Commonwealth-wide Network
Produced by the Macquarie Broadcasting Service
2GB • 3AW • 4BH • SDN • 6IX • 7HO
2HR 2GA 2WL 2MW 2LT 3CV 6WB 6MD 7LA
and many other commercial broadcasting stations throughout
A it otraba .
which might be oblong, or square
—anything.
Suddenly Norris came sliding
down the bank to join him,
crashing into the wall of the shed
with a grunt. The shaking
annoyed him.
“Can’t you do somethin’ to
get it goin’?”
Dan felt the sweat bead on his
upper-lip and hang cold on his
forehead. Norris, moving about,
could. easily bridge the stratum
with quick and fatal results. The
situation was very grim. Briefly
as he could he explained the
danger.
“D’y’ mean we’re standin’ in
a pool of ’lectricity?” Norris
demanded incredulously.
“That’s the strength of it,” Dan
assurred him grimly, the sweat
on his face cold and clammy in
the night, air.
“You mean t’ say we’re stand-
ing on ’lectricity ’n’ not gettin’
any shock?”
“About two-hundred volts of
it, Mr, Norris.”
Norris absorbed that slowly.
“You ain’t kiddin’ by any
chance?”
“Far from it.”
“I’m gettin’ out of ’ere!”
Norris ejaculated. He went
scrambling urgently up the
bank before Dan could do a
thing about it. Dan’s world
stood still till Norris’s breathless
voice came down from on top
of the bank. “You all right
down there, Dan?”
Dan wiped his forehead with
the back of his hand. “Yes, I’m
0.K.,” he called and thought,
“But you’ll never know how
lucky you were. You ought to
go and buy a ticket in Tatt’s on
the strength of it”
Quickly he set to work,
moving as if on hot bricks,
fingers flicking everything before
laying a hand on the motor or
any ,of its parts ; body tensed,
ready to snatch back at the least
prickling sensation of shock.
Inside the starter, he located the
trouble —perished insulation on
a wire, that a piece of tape
quickly fixed.
Of the two men, Dan was the
most thankful when water
gushed from the delivery-pipe
and went flooding wetly and
fragrantly out across the lucerne-
patch. But'it-was Norris who
expressed Dan’s private feelings,
“No doubt about it, Dan, it’s
good t’ see that agaih ! ”
They drove up across the farm
in silence. At the gate Norris
said to hang on a, bit while he
got Dan a pumpkin for his
night’s trouble. The pumpkin,
when it arrived, was not over-
big. Still, for the Baxter family,
it would make a meal.
“That’s for what y’ done for
me t’night, Dan,” Norris
explained. “If I hadn’t got that
water for me lucerne I’d been in
a stew.” He leaned heavily on
the door of the cab. “You ain|
kiddin’ me about that pool of
’lectricity, are y’, Dan?”
Dan assured him that nothing
was further from his thoughts.
“It beats hell,” Norris said
bewilderedly. “Well, good-
night, Dan. But, J , D aD »
I’ll never understand it”
I three-two. A gaudy knick-
knackery of buttons, stars, rib-
bons, bars, falderals, badges
with bursting-bomb motifs. In-
side is a man. Somewhere.
“This is Giorgio,” she says.
“Ciao, Giorgio,” I use a
proper tone of voice.
“Ciao,” says Giorgio.
Stilted. That dialogue. After
the build-up. Giorgio looks
like a carabiniere. Smells like a
carabiniere. Slaps his thigh like
a carabiniere. I put away the
cigarettes. Giorgio has a potato-
masher grenade stuck in green
puttees. And a service rifle,
short. Explosive as a stood-up
date.
“Got a smoke?” I ask.
Friendly.
“Got identity-card?” he asks.
Gruffly. Disappointing, that
attitude, for a country where
duplicity and dissembling form
daily bread for custodians of
public safety.
I try a side-mouth rough-
tough voice. But it dribbles out
spittled. “No card.” Blokes my
age usually wear battlefield-
green or red patches for the
campo concentramento.
Giorgio unlimbers the police
rifle. He looks earnestly for the
safety-catch and rams it with
his left thumb till it grates along
the bolt. It slips once and skins
his knuckles. I try a derisive
laugh. Hollow as macaroni
stalks.
He pokes the machine at me.
I get a dose of caterpillar blood.
Morire e sempre un po’ partire.
Then he remembers Balilla
black-shirt drill. He leans the
butt on the floor, levers the
crabspear-bayonet till it points
forward at me instead of back
at him. Tricky. That manoeuvre.
With the safety released.
Giorgio must smarten up.
“You’ll blow your arm off,”
I assure him.
He gesticulates for the pro-
nunciamento. “We go see the
colonello,” he invites. “Every-
body.” Lowered eyebrows make
it clear he gives an order.
I display herniated Latin in
roared blasphemies about saints
and horns. Sheer grandstand.
Just like the natives. In the hear-
ing of the signorina, too.
BOY blond steps forward,
heroically. Benign as a
tomahawk. “This I handle,” he
announces. “I represent the
German commandant,” He
opens an identity pass writhing
with swastikas. He clips on a
swastika armband. Now he’s in
uniform,
“I see,” Giorgio sees. Nobody
is surprised.
Giorgio still holds that rusty
muzzle at me and my nerves are
Catherine-wheels. Guns I hate,
Giorgio I distrust. That rusty
muzzle looks like happily ever
after and all points west. Just
when I’m ready to shriek at him
to take away the gun. He takes
away the gun.
I untangle prickly fingers out
of sticky hair. I spit on the
palm, roll it into a fist, throw it
all the way in from square-leg
boundary. To crumple knuckles
on boy blond’s gun-gadgets
which he tries to unpocket.
Fingers working like overworked
bank-tellers’. I win that round
same as Italy won the first war
at the battle of Vittorio Veneto.
Customers squeak complaints.
This is the hostess’s department.
Signorina swings the barolo
bottle with plenty of follow-
through. Boy blond twitches
here and there like fresh-killed
vermicelli.
That’s all. Boy blond is not
unconscious. Just too giddy to
be brave. He doesn’t want to
lie down. He lies down. Flat as
beer slops.
Giorgio takes his gun-gadgets.
They look more experienced
than his own.
Minutes later I crouch behind
a pathside shrine adjusting
signorina’s rucksack dees and
finding enough wind to back a
smoker’s cough. Osteria uproar
subsides from offstage multitude
effects to ringside roars to pool-
room patter to church bazaar to
ladies’ midweek. Then one
immensely talkative, impetuous,
heartfelt voice hushes the others
like the racecourse announcer.
Giorgio’s power over words
carries him away. He ought to
try underplaying.
I climb the rockribbed moun-
tain after signorina, who is agile
as a chamois on a dirty wind-
screen. Below, leaks from
•Macugnaga’s blackout stipple an
inverted milky way across satin
blackness.
WE rest ten minutes every ten
minutes. I’m glad it’s dark.
Daylight brings dizziness. We
take divergent paths and reach
the saddle in a lung-busting
finish. I send signorina to recon-
noitre deserted shepherds’ huts.
I’m not ungallant. Just scared,
“Leave the rucksack here,” I
tell her. Kindly. “You can come
back for it.”
We climb through windows of
stone huts, light oil-lamps,
unlatch doors, fork beds till
mattresses of hay and chestnut
leaves bounce like Continental
waltzes. The large hut is labelled
“Casa di Savoia” and hygienic
as Tuscan sidestreets.
I make fire with a Gazette
dello Sport three years sour.
Over the chimney a St. Anthony
of Padua with prayers on the
back escorts a cheap print of
Titian’s Venus of Urbino. We
prepare sharp smelling punnets
of cheese, chestnuts and salame.
Signorina makes coffee with
surrogated tomfoolery. Between
sips I pick teeth for charcoal.
She laces it from a black bottle.
Absinthe makes the heart grow
fonder. Snug. That set-up. For
a weather-beaten mountainman.
All we need is candelabra and
chilled freisa.
“Why follow this restless
trade?” she murmurs. Alpini,
vigorous sons of the mountains,
ought to be manning Torino
Fiat factories.
I begin thinking of homely
happiness, peace and beautiful
side of Italian life. Ragged
thought routines that come to
me when firelight warms tones of
fragrant female flesh and heavens
without are tinsel confetti
splashed across black alabastar.
“Begging is illegal,” I explain.
“There’s employment in Lower
Lombardia,” she suggests.
“Wine-pressing.”
“I got tinea.”
“Enhances flavor.”
I offer a cigarette and give
her the pack, momentarily hexed
by the black bottle spirit.
Generous gestures mean much
to ladies. Practice passes mean
nothing to this girl. Flirtation
bores her and French cult of
amorous dalliance is foreign to
her.
“Why not settle down? You’d
find happiness.” She still thinks
of Lower Lombardia, of vines,
mulberries, olives, walnuts, sun-
cured corn and poplar avenues.
She forgets the staccato poc poc
of Thompson-guns mingled with
mortal belch and harsh slams of
fifty-calibre machine-guns.
“What’s the good of happi-
ness?” I return. “It can’t buy
money.”
1 THOUGHT we had climbed
1 enough to shame Matterhorn.
In fresh daylight we use. hands
and knees over concave cirque
walls. Tough going for me with
smoker’s throat. For her with a
rucksack. You need the lungs
of a dictator and the tenacity of
a racecourse urger. Our goal,
Col di Monte Moro, hangs over
us like morning-afters.
We spell for a two - apple
breakfast by the marble plaque
where Giuseppe Cavero slipped
in 1908. I give the long
lean Zeiss glasses exercise over
glaciated umber landscape. We
finish coffee by the 1.-S. stone
which marks the Italo-Swiss
frontier. Before us, beyond the
glacier, are valleys somnolent
with peaceful neutrality, and
hospitality unstinted for eligible
entrants. Chiaroscuro hill tones
recede through lemon, lime,
moss, ivy to something like
green ebony. V
The bleak afternoon bora
stiffens. A carabiniere appears
behind us, below the crater lake,
awaits our all-clear, then leads
customers on an easy climb
around the cirque. With the
frontier only a few paces away,
customers become restive as La
Scala queues.
Giorgio pep-talks customers
about imminent issues of Swiss
Red Cross clothing. He dandles
his armful of gun and gets a
threadbare shirt from the
Deutsch deserter, and a pair of
dirty socks from a Yugoslav.
To swell kitty. Better than he
had hoped.
“Soon you will, have no use
for your old clothes,” tells
them. “And I need them.”
Giorgio briefs customers about
the glacier path before them.
“No longer do you need
guiding,” he assures them.
Livid-fleshed customers are
led on to ice-sheets, like
Dantesque shades in Hell’s
eighth basement. Giorgio
abandons customers and
crouches close to us in the wind.
“Coffee’s’finished,” I tell him.
“They contributed another
three - thousand each,” he
informs. “For police protec-
tion.”
Sometimes we have money to
burn. Sometimes we sift the
ashes.
TARY two-bob snowflakes skim
I—' the pass like lost souls
driven by despair. Giorgio
curses and stumbles after
customers who have mistaken
the path already., .
Signorina shivers: “Last trip,
she says. “This year.”
I pat her arm comfortingly;
lift cigarettes from her cummer-
bund. X take a smoke and pocket
the pack before Giorgio comes
back. Giorgio mouths his own
dappled fag, tilts his head and
tobacco drains away in the wind.
One drag and he has a scorched
pepperone nose and no smoke.
“What about boy blond?” 1
ask. “Ragazzo biondo.”
Giorgio squints windburnt
eyes through gale-driven mist
after customers. Paternally.
“Last seen on the way to
Varallo,” he explains. “To
report to the German com-
mandant.”
Down ahead I focus Swiss
frontier - guards waiting for
customers to debouch where
glacier - stream creams over
moraine. Soon they will 'feed,
comfort, interrogate newcomers
in the cosy chalet. With lashings
of mint-tea and chocolate. Swiss
frontier-guards are overworked,
but they never lack hospitality.
Cormorants
The sea has it this way: if you see
Cormorants, they are the pattern for the eye.
In the sky, on the rocks, in the water, shags!
To think of them every way: I see them, oily rags
Flung starboard from some tramp and washed
Onto rocks, flung up by the waves, squashed
Into sock-shapes with the foot up; sooty birds
Wearing white, but not foam-white; swearing not
words,
But blaspheming with swastika-gesture, wing-hinge
to nose;
Ugly grotesqueries, all in a shag’s pose.
And beautifully ugly for their being shags,
Not partly swans. When the eye searches for rags,
It does not seek muslin, white satin; nor.
For its purpose, does the sea adorn shags more.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


AUSTRALIAN SEASHORES
BY PROFESSOR W. J. DAKIN,
assisted by Isobel Bennett and Elizabeth Pope.
A fund of fascinating information for fishermen, beadblovers
and naturalists. With 100 pages of illustrations, including colour.
45/-' (post 1/-) •
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, CJ,
AVAILABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
THEY DO IT WITH MIRRORS
By Agatha Christie
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
by Goths in ant-like hordes. Rome
was invested by Alaric, bent on looting
the city to secure supplies with which to
settle his vaguely wandering armies in
Africa. The gates were opened by
treachery. Goths and slaves raged
through the greatest and most opulent
city the world had known, raping and
murdering among its marble palaces. All
the huge plunder of The centuries was
carried away. Senators, merchants,
soldiers, artisans were captive in mobs.
Rome, the centre of the world, as truly
as London is today the centre and for as
long, was reduced to a dead shell of
poverty in a cataclysm.
It was never the again really the Eternal
City. “The human race is included in
the ruins,” St. Jerome wrote from his cell
in Bethlehem.
It was after that that the real move-
ment from the East began; that the
smaller hordes started to creep through
the holes in the curtain between East
and West in the wake of the army of
Attila, the “Scourge of God,” who had
little idea of government beyond con-
quest, slave-hunting and looting, a man
remarkably like some of the Communist
leaders of Asia and Russia today—“short,
broad-shouldered, flat-nosed, with fierce,
sunken eyes and impassive mouth in a
beardless face.” His Empire covered the
range of the modern Iron Curtain Empire
of Europe, save for the patch between
the Elbe and the Rhine. His hordes
dashed occasionally to devastate the
Balkans, Constantinople and Greece, each
attack being followed by humiliating
peace settlements and by exaction of
enormous indemnities, impossible of dis-
charge, to effect the perpetual slavery of
the raided. So it went on till, 100 years
from the death of the Old Gods, Hun
and Goth and Vandal ruled from the
Pillars, of Hercules to the Caspian and
much beside, and their pirates controlled
the seas. The Western Roman Empire,
governed by savage Germanic kings, was
merely playing a game of make-believe
that it was still Roman.
All this is more real to the reader when
he looks at the pictures and sees the
modernity of the faces and the calm,
familiar civilised look of men with not a
trouble on their minds, with no depth of
feeling in them, no real awareness of the
gigantic cataclysms taking place around
them, as if they were one with the in-
gredients of Sydney ferry traffic whom
one often hears ruminating that the Red
menace is overrated.
There is no room in a short review
even to touch on all the seething events
so graphically told of the progress to ruin
of the surviving splendors of Byzantium,
of the chaos, the disintegration of Euro-
pean art, literature, living, even of
languages, and of standards in general
as they had been known at the birth of
Christ. A few hundred years later the
Western world had become a mere mass
of rotting historical detritus on which
sparse plantations still flowered and
fruited, giving off the seeds of enlighten-
ment and progress.
The reclamation of the Dark Ages
waste, the reassembly and fertilising of
the materials from which culture and
freedom grow, make a thrilling tale for
those who like their drama on an
Olympian scale. Presented in Professor
Previte-Orton’s history in a compact
wealth of steadily marching detail with
a skilful economy of words, its apparent
confusion assumes a clearly defined
pattern. Fitted into their right places and
perspective in this story the wars, the
massacres, the brutalities, the plagues and
famines, vast and universal as they some-
times are, look only like trickles of blood
and sweat streaming off the writhing giant
Civilisation, as he forces himself,
victorious and renewed, out of the mire
of a titanic battle with decay.
To see clearly how much was achieved
out of sheer rotting chaos in so short a
series of centuries is to multiply one’s
awe for the tremendous power and drive
of the human mass mind, once it is
harnessed to an overriding purpose.
The resurgence of culture and ordered
law, reconditioned to meet the needs of
a modern universe after a death-struggle
against drowning in disease and blood,
was, if anything, more Olympian and
astonishing than even their fall following
the centuries of Rome’s greatest splendor.
But the processes by which civilisation has
advanced and been destroyed and
advanced again are too much like the
growth, blossoming and death of every
other organism in nature to make a
thoughtful reader comfortable about the
immediate future—the word immediate
being understood in terms of centuries.
These two volumes can with profit be
put on the shelves of every thinking
man, to be taken down occasionally
for a glance at the warnings of history—
which, of course, no human being or race
ever heeded.
M. H. E.
Reviewed Briefly
Insects Affecting Livestock : F. H. S.
Roberts, D.Sc. (Angus and Robertson).
This lively little book opens with a very
pretty color-plate of blowflies; and Dr.
Roberts, who is attached to the C.5.1.R.0,
and the University of Queensland, may
be presumed to have the last word on
mosquitoes, red poultry-mites, cattle-ticks,
dog tongue-worms, demodectic mange in
pigs and other such pleasantries.
* * * *
Revised and enlarged editions of two
important works in Dent’s Everyman’s
Reference Library are the Atlas of
Ancient and Classical Geography, edited
by John Warrington ; and the Dictionary
of Non-Classical Mythology, edited by
Egerton Sykes, in which some Australian,
New Zealand and New Guinea myths
are briefly mentioned.
* * * *
Witchcraft: Pennethorne Hughes
(Longmans). As one of some Oxford
undergraduates who, in 1928, founded a
witch-club and held decorous revels by
the light of black candles, Mr. Hughes
speaks with unusual authority ; the more
so since his youthful aberration led him,
in the present volume, to a serious,
detached and interesting study of the
subject, somewhat resembling previous
treatises one has read by Charles
Williams. Witchcraft is presented, in
historical development, as a survival of
primitive, pre-Christian religions; still
surviving in an attenuated form in
popular superstitions but with, alas, no
future. If the Communists overran
Europe, says Mr. Hughes, something like
the secret religious societies of witches
would arise again, only these “witches”
would be the Christians.
* * * *
Chamber of Horrors : “Vigilans,” with
an introduction by Eric Partridge (The
Language Library ; Andre Deutsch). A
glossary of British and American “official
jargon—of officialese and gobbledy-
gook.” For example: “We shall com-
municate with you further if and when
the occasion arises”: which means, in
plain English, “If necessary we shall
write to you again.” Should be read by
all officials, businessmen and gobbledy-
gooks (if any).
* * * *
Philosophic Problems of Nuclear
Science: Werner Heisenberg (Faber).
Lectures translated from the German in
which, lucidly surveying scientific and
particularly atomic theory and know-
ledge from the Greeks to our own time,
Professor Heisenberg sees the scientists
entering a world of knowledge closed to
the common man while, beyond this
“gate,” the scientists themselves are con-
fronted with the problems arising from
the international ideal —poisoned by the
Soviet spies—and with the menace of
what they have discovered: not only the
atomic bomb but the possibilities of germ-
warfare and biological interference which
could “lead to terrible mental deforma-
tion of great masses of people.” The
professor’s answer to the problems is
for the scientists to recognise the
mysterious “centre” to which their re-
searches have led them as an intimation
of divinity—it is another of those books,
increasingly common of late, in which
science turns away from “sceptical
nihilism” into an approach to religion,
* * * *
African Jungle Doctor: Werner Junge
(Harrap). A German mission-doctor who
was ten years in Liberia from 1930. A
boy with yaws whose knees, before the
doctor cured-him, were fixed at right-
angles owing to the contraction of his
scars, so ’ that he “crept about on his
hands and feet like a spider” ; a hump-
backed woman who died of disease and
whose corpse was stabbed in its grave
by natives with spears “To keep her safe
there—last night she appeared to some of
our women and throttled them in their
sleep”; driver-ants which eat tethered
animals at night and from which even
the elephant will flee ... a very good
book of its kind, with also much about
the Leopard Society to correct any over-
sentimental views that may now he
current about the African savage.
* * * *
The Missing Brother: Keith Robertson
(Faber). A. boys’ mystery about a boy
who trespassed on the land of a rich
farmer-misanthrope. The bearded farmer
is suspected of doing-away with his
brother years before in an argument over
the running of the farm. A wicked
former-resident strays back to the town,
and soon after him comes one who claims
to be the bearded farmer’s brother, claim-
ing his share of the farm. There are
excursions by night, diggings in mounds,
discoveries of Indian arrowheads, rob-
beries, bindings to chairs ; and eventually
a great discovery is made, as a result of
which everyone but the villains lives
happily ever after.
* ♦ *
The Rose of Kantara: Anthony
Richardson (Odhams). The romance of
a diamond which brings misfortune upon
its owners. It is bought by the fabulously-
rich Alexis Bahradoff; and soon he
observes his lovely mistress going swim-
ming with his son by moonlight, wearing
no clothes ; to this spectacle is added the
death of the son after a gipsy-girl has
uttered threats; then the death of the
mistress at a fete to which she insisted on
wearing the diamond ; then old Bahradoff
dies, and only his nephew, his crippled
daughter and his secretary are left; and
then it is seen that the disasters have
nothing to do with superstition, but have
all been malevolently contrived.
$ -t * *
The Man Who Was Loved: James
Stern (Seeker and Warburg). On the
whole all the short stories in this col-
lection are well-written and, with one
exception, told straightforwardly. The
collection is unconvincing. Sometimes the
background is incorrect, as in the allegedly
Australian method of killing snakes by
picking them up and snapping their
backs ; ordinary enough but, according
to Mr, Stern, the coup de grace t akes
the form of the snake’s head flying off!
Other of the tales attack institutions
which are so nearly moribund as to qualify
more for literary preservation than for
censure: children brought up by gover-
nesses and forced to go hunting must
surely be rarities today, even in England.
Mr. Stern writes of diverse characters and
people but, paradoxically, appears to be
at his rather insipid happiest when writing
of unhappy children.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 208
Across.
I—-Jack back for the carousal. (5)
4—Additionally press a suit with a
medical graduate and a city of
Australia. (9)
8— Knight-errant holds a friend with
a noise. (7)
9 Count Edward of Germany is
made to grow upon another tree.
(7)
11— Doris is in time. (3)
12— Noble EE, not ee. (7)
13— Dusty mixture in stew. (5)
14— Strike-breaker has bluejacket
backing. (3)
1 '—Dace for a lion to eat a Christian
soprano of Sydney. (5)
19—Island which goes against the
grain in the tropic. (5)
31—Jhis is bound to be pulled by a
mllow who has rows. (3)
u-— The objective is one of these
„ ? orts - (5)
Loves to change and get the
answer. (5)
24—Article crosses the Channel for
°. n the other side. (3)
Horrify father when backing a
colleague. (5)
1 A clumsy old ship from a resort
m Somerset? (7)
30 — Haughty women are accustomed
to giving this to admirers. (3)
31 — Six-footer with that woman’s
floral features. (7)
32 Not probes in a southern French
resort. (7)
33 Disciplinarians and I keep the
snares away from the market. (9)
34 — Gertrude is a mug. (5)
Down.
1— Loathing with regard to a girl
who boxes. (10)
2 Hamlet personalities get fifty
beers after six! (9)
3 Burdened the boy Edward. (5)
4 What runs after the loco measure
for an untoughened newcomer.
* (10)
5 Bacchanale. (4)
6 Keeping mum over a boy when
married. (5)
7 Help a dramatic soprano who is
often called celeste. (4)
10 —Falls upon preposition fasteners.
(7)
15— Tree-basher among those dis-
turbed by a blonde’s intrusion.
(5. 5)
16— The King-emperor has part of
speech on a misdeed in the drain-
age area. (5, 5)
18— Mollify the beast from whom you
steal the youth. (7)
20 —Tasty companion on a piece ot
furniture. (9)
26 —Favourite returned a boy. (5)
28— Andronicus bird goes to America*
(5) , , .
29 — Some say your destiny is written
in this tree. (4)
30 — Lies within an inch. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 207


DEFENCE BE LCT/TEDE
AUSTRALIA'S NORTHERN GATEWAY TO THE WORLD
Australia's future is essentially linked with her Northern development in the great hinterland from
Darwin to Alice Springs.
With New Guinea and Darwin as our logical gateways, by sea and air, to the world of the
v North, we must fully develop the territories In the North IN THE VERY NEAR
The Hastings Deering Cattle Property near Alice
Springs in Central Australia is 2,600 square miles
in area, which is more than a rood one mile
wide across Australia from Sydney o Perth.
No. 4 on the map opposite is The
Hastings Deering Establishment
at Lae in New Guinea: "I
believe in NATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT going
hand in hand with
NATIONAL
DEFENCE."
-H.HD.
■:V
-v...
WM.
::.s
m
i
:
* 4 *> .j
■■vy-
■
,'v • ' '•
W&mSk
M
,.v '
' -*-*•■*• Sr.
a
.
i
-
'f ?
Sf
m
m
m
m
«Ma
£V:
Pi
■
sis
JL
m
VK
W-S
Vt.S
:;:
'•x !'••**■•
•J
■>''-: : ’
j v I
::; v
/•S
me
■
;
«
m
•'T :
r#
:v> :■
•:.; s;?
. : :; . •
%
%>
f /
1
» :
»
it P
sa
ii
■ /■;;
15gfl;
> • ,
& '■ m
%
pp
5pftU\tS
::: S
\\.v
m
I
A'
(?
PP-
P ; jv;
H.D
i
■: • p ;
‘‘BEEF ROADS" • WATER • DEFENCE • FOOD PRODUCTION
HASTINGS PEERING
NORTHERN RESEARCH RESERVES
HASTINGS PEERING (NORTHERN TERRITORY) PTY. LIMITED, Alice Springs and Darwin, N.T.
HASTINGS DIESELS PTY. LIMITED, Alice Springs. Northern Territory.
„ „ „ „ Lae, New Guinea.
Head Office: William Street. Sydney. M 0412 (33 lines).
/&e <—
"Seven Pillars of Wisdom 1
1. TRAMS POIT
2. COAL
3. FOOD
4. WATER
5. ROADS
6. STEEL
7. DEFENCE
