

sdf
i
m
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or business
associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings, anni-
versaries and all celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Seppelt can arrange im-
mediate deliveries of their products to any address in
Great Britain. Your nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons
Ltd. will supply details of this serflce., Orders for de-
livery in Great Britain before Christmas must be placed
before I6th November.
THE HOUSE OF !
SEPPEL
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE; Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE; Box 233 E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE; Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE: Box 64, G.P.O.
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
FIRST INSTALMENT “YOU'RE WRONG, DELANEY"
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3844
Wednesday, October 14, 1953
Price 9d,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
THE MARK OF A STORMY PAST IS LEFT ON CONWAY'S ANCIENT WALLS
FOR over six hundred years the towers and walls of Conway Castle have
stood beside the River Conway in North Wales. The castle’s picturesque
location, reflected in the quiet waters of the estuary, has contributed to its
air of calm serenity and has tempted artists of succeeding generations to
portray its imposing beauty. . .
Conway owes its origin to Edward I (1272-1307), whose policy in
subiueatine Wales was to establish a line of fortresses across the country.
In 1277 he built Flint and Rhuddlan Castles, followed in 1282 by Conway
and Caernarvon as he pushed further westwards to establish his authority
over North Wales.
The castle stands on a high rock which was originally occupied by a
Welsh fort. The walls are from twelve to fifteen feet thick and are flanked
by eight vast circular towers. Built in the shape of an irregular oblong,
three hundred feet in length, it is washed by tidal water on two sides and
one third of the fortress stands within the town defences. Much of this
fortification remains today, giving to Conway the reputation of being the
finest example of a medieval walled town in Britain.
Entrance to the castle was gained by a drawbridge over a deep moat
and through a portcullised gateway which could be easily defen deri. v
features within the castle are the State apartments and the thirteenth-centu y
oratory built for Queen Eleanor.
Conway’s history began in 1294 when King Edward I was besieged there
during a Welsh rising which was due to the first attempt at direct taxation
for the French wars. The defenders of the castle were almost reduced lo
famine before they were relieved by the arrival of a fleet with provisions.
It was in Conway that Richard II signed his abdication and the castle
was again besieged in the Glendower Rebellion of 1401. During the-Civil
War it was garrisoned for King Charles but surrendered in 1646. Later the
fortress came into the possession of the Earl of Conway, who removed most
of the lead and timber from its roof and interior for use in Ireland but the
vessel in which this material was being conveyed was wrecked and all the
property was lost.
The graceful suspension bridge which crosses the river opposite the castle
was designed by Telford to harmonise with the walls of this ancient fortress.


The Red Page
THE LOST EXPLORER
It is an unusual thing for a writer to
publish a book 28 years after he has dis-
appeared in the jungle, where presumably
he is dead ; but that is what has happened
with Colonel P. H. Fawcett’s Exploration
Fawcett (Hutchinson).
The unexpectedness of this gesture
from the grave—his wife, having decided
at last that he must - be dead, two or three
years ago released his logbooks, letters
and manuscripts, which have been edited
by his son Brian Fawcett into a fluent
narrative nearly all in Fawcett’s own
words—is somehow typical of the
colonel; for he was always odd, unpre-
dictable, eccentric; like Leichhardt, too
large and too wobbly to fit into the
normal pattern of life or to come to any
imaginable end except one of disaster.
Fawcett firmly believed, for instance,
in what is known as “psychometry,” by
means of which black art a medium, hold-
ing an object from the past, is supposed
to be able to relate its history ; and, while
all things are possible, it is strange to
have an officer of the British Army
popping off to a medium with a small
black-basalt image given to him by Sir
Rider Haggard and solemnly recording;
I was quite unknown to the psycho-
metrist, who held the figure in one band
and in complete darkness wrote the follow-
ing: “* 1 hear a voice saying ‘See the
fate of the presumptuous! They count their
Creator as under their influence and sub-
ject to their powers but the day of retribu-
tion has come. Wait and watch!’ Then
I see volcanoes in violent eruption, flaming
lava pouring down their sides, and the
whole land shakes with a mighty rumbling
sound. The sea rises as in a hurricane,
and a huge portion of land on both east
and west sides disappears under the water,
leaving the central part flooded but visible.
The majority of the inhabitants are either
drowned or destroyed by the earthquakes.
The priest to whom the effigy was given
rushes from the sinking city toward the
hills, where he places the sacred charge in
hiding and then continues his flight east-
wards. The voice says, ‘The judgment of
Atlanta will be the fate of all who presume
to deific power.’ ”
And, like Leichhardt again, Fawcett
ended in mystery. With his son Jack and
Jack’s boyhood friend Raleigh Rimell he
set out in 1925 to find a “lost city” in
central Brazil. A last letter to his wife
was brought back by his returning
peons : —
Here we are at Dead Horse Camp, the
spot where my horse died in 1920. Only
his white bones remain. We can bathe
ourselves here, but the insects make it a
matter of great haste. Nevertheless the
season is good. It is very cold at night,
and fresh in the morning; but insects and
heat come by midday, and from then till
six o’clock in the evening it is sheer misery
in the camp. You need have no fear of
any failure.
What happened to him from that point
onwards is still a mystery. Legends and
lies gathered about him, as they did about
Leichhardt, and he was continually turn-
ing up, “alive,” in parts of the South
American continent where he could not
possibly have been.
A French engineer in 1927 met
“seated by the wayside, an old man,
ragged and sick, who on being questioned
replied that his name was Fawcett....
He seemed confused and not all there.”
He was not Fawcett.
A Swiss trapper in 1931 met amongst
wild Indians “an old man clad in
skins, with a long yellowish-white
beard and long hair” who said he was “a
captive here.” Fawcett’s son remarks,
“My father’s beard would be mousy-grey,
not yellowish-white, and if he had long
hair it had grown surprisingly on a head
remarkable for its baldness from an early
age.”
In 1933 an Indian woman gave infor-
mation to a Brazilian expedition of three
white men held captive by a tribe of the
hinterland, the oldest white man having
become chief of the tribe, while his son
was married to a native woman by whom
he had had a male child. Brian Fawcett
thinks there are possibilities in this story,
though the Indian woman described Jack
Fawcett as wearing a sun-helmet and “My
brother did not have a sun-helmet —all
three of them wore Stetsons.”
A journalist in 1944 got hold of a
“white boy” in the jungle, announcing
him as Jack’s son, and wanted to fly him
out to civilisation. Brian Fawcett says
the youth was not of white parentage but
ar albino: “Remember, Jack was abso-
lutely virgin and not the least interested
m women, either civilised or savage. It
has lately become usual to credit him
with the behavior of a sex-hungry soldier,
the people who are now spreading these
stories apparently regarding that attitude
as an inevitable characteristic of man!”
A log-book was found —not Fawcett's.
Assorted skeletons and shrunken heads
were found —not Fawcett’s.
As late as 1951 an Indian chief
dramatically confessed on his deathbed
to having clubbed the explorers to death.
The . two young men were allegedly
thrown into the river and Fawcett was
buried in a grave, the whereabouts of
which was revealed by tfie murderous
chieftain’s successor. “The bones,” says
Brian Fawcett, “were examined by a team
of experts of the Royal Anthropological
Institute in London, and were pronounced
not to be those of my father,”
Fawcett’s lost city has turned out to be
quite as elusive as his bones.
South America is full of rumors of
such places, like that which was described
in “an old document still preserved at
Rio de Janeiro” in which “a native of
Minas Gerais, whose name has not been
preserved,” tells how he made a search,
in 1743, for “the lost mines of Muribeca.”
Fawcett “believed implicitly” in this
strange story :
The climb was so difficult that three
hours passed before they emerged torn and
breathless on a ledge high above the
surrounding plain. Soon they were standing
shoulder to shoulder, at the top, gazing,
dumb with amazement, at the view spread
out below them. There at their feet, about
four miles away, was a huge city A
feeling of vast age brooded over everything,
and it took a distinct effort for him to issue,
in a hoarse, unnatural voice, the order to
advance. The arches were still in a fair
state of preservation, but one or two of
the colossal uprights had twisted slightly
on their bases. The men passed through
and entered what had once been a wide
street, but littered now with broken pillars
and blocks of masonry rank with the
parasitic vegetation of the tropics. There
was ruin everywhere, but many buildings
were roofed with great stone slabs still
in position Huddled together like a
flock of frightened sheep the men pro-
ceeded down the street and came to a vast
square. A broad flight of ruined stone
steps led up and into a wide hall, where
traces of color still clung to the frescoes
and., carvings. Bats in countless thousands
winged in circles through the dim chambers
and the acrid reek of their droppings was
suffocating.
Fawcett’s own lost city in the Matto
Grosso region, attested by many legends
and all kinds of stimulating but totally
unreliable evidence, was to have been
the queen-city of them all: still popu-
lated by the white-skinned, red-haired,
blue-eyed pre-Inca people who once
undoubtedly existed throughout South
America and who form the basis of
Heyerdahl’s theory of the origin of the
Easter Island images and the Polynesians.
Somewhere, somehow, such a city and
such a people should exist; the intoxica-
tion of South American exploration will
attack the hardiest reader; but Fawcett’s
beloved “Z” is disposed of by Brian
Fawcett in a single merciless footnote:
“The area where he believed ‘Z’ to lie
has in recent years been regularly flown
over by domestic airlines, and no trace
of an ancient city has been reported.
Moreover, this part of the country is not
unknown —and I can hardly believe it was
unexplored at the time he wrote.”
Thus Fawcett died chasing a phantom
and must go down to history as one of
the great eccentrics of. exploration rather
than one of the more practical heroes.
But he could have found something odd
in those jungles; and if he did nothing
else he certainly left a great book behind
him: for this record of adventure in the
wilds, with its devastating exposures of
the cruelties of the rubber-planters to
their slaves, its pictures of decadence and
debauch in the jungle like Conrad’s report
on Africa in Heart of Darkness, its
appalling accounts of disease and priva-
tion and its tremendous array of adven-
tures with wild men, wild beasts, giant
anacondas, the swarming insects, the
dangerous rivers, the little fish that strip
a man’s flesh to the bone in a matter of
minutes-—there is enough fascinating
material in one of Fawcett’s paragraphs
to fill two chapters of the usual travel-
book—is nothing less than magnificent.
It is one of the best books of its kind
this reviewer has ever encountered, and
it is hard to imagine that it will not
become a classic.
Rhythm and Music
So much emphasis has been laid on
harmony and counterpoint in the
development of music over the past thou-
sand years or so that it is not surprising
that Rhythm and Tempo, A Study in
Musical History by Curt Sachs (Dent)
should be advertised as “the first book to
trace the history of rhythm and tempo in
its entirety.”
Denying von Billow’s saying, “In the
beginning was rhythm,” Sachs opines
that “organisation of rhythm came long
after men had given melodic shape to
mirth and to mourning,” and agrees' with
Bucher that “rhythm is by no means
inherent in either music or poetry, but
solely in the movement of human bodies,
whence it passes on to verses and singing
or playing.” He agrees that man’s walk-
ing has produced duple time, or two-m-a-
bar, but takes a poor view of the theory
of Mathis de Lussy that man breathes in
ternary time, or waltz-time.
Such speculations, however, form only
a small part of the work. Sachs comes
very quickly down to earth with studies
of primitive rhythms; of polyrhythms,
or different drums beating different
times, in Indonesia and Rhodesia ; of the
rhythmic patterns of the Japanese drums,
Taiko, Kakko and Shoko ; of the simi-
larity between Hebrew accentual poetry
and the poetry of Shakspeare; of Tuni-
sian drum-patterns made by striking
sometimes on the rim and sometimes on
the skin of the drum; and so to the
greatest drummers in the world: the
Indians of India;
No other civilisation is India’s equal in
drum-playing.
The Indian drummer uses talas, or
patterns of beats that all have names;
and he enjoys playing with his right hand
a pattern with a different time-signature
from that in his left hand —this is not
merely a matter of filling-in or ornament-
ing with one hand the set rhythm of the
other, but of combining two entirely
different rhythms, as of a march and a
waltz.
The chapter on Greece and Rome is
an interesting summary of the debt of
music to words ; for it is the Greek
metres which established quantitative
rhythm for our times with the dactyls,
anapests and spondees; all variations of
short and long. The Greeks always had
a word for it: it is interesting to observe
that the Greek pceon corresponds to
variations of two crotchets and a quaver
which must be rendered in modern nota-
tion as five-to-a-bar, while their epitrita
corresponds to seven-to-a-bar. Both these
time-signatures have been criticised as
“unnatural” by Western critics of the
music of Moussorgsky and other Rus-
sians ; yet they are common to one of
the few decipherable remnants of ancient
Greek music, the First Delphic Hymn,
and to modern Greek, Hungarian,
Basque, Finnish, Turkish and Bulgarian
folksongs.
But Sachs makes it plain that to sup-
pose the Greeks knew only quantitative
metres is a vulgar error. Their orators,
grammarians and poets were metrikoi,
concerned with correct speaking, while
the musicians were rhymithmikoi, con-
cerned with verses to be sung or danced ;
and he devotes some space to the ques-
tion of how much or how little part
stress played in Greek.
After beating through the early Middle
Ages to the Renaissance and more
modern times, Sachs becomes most
interested in speeds of performance:
what, for instance, was the right tempo
for the minuet, the gavotte, etc.? Do
modern performers take Bach too rever-
ently and slowly? (He says they do.)
Beethoven’s speeds astonished his con-
temporaries ; and he was never so happy
as when difficult combinations of rhythms
in his compositions boxed-up rehearsing
orchestras. There is a good story about
Chopin:
He often did his mazurkas in 4/4 instead
of the notated 3/4 without being conscious
of any deviation from the print... .One day
the good friends, Chopin and Meyerbeer,
parted in some irritation because the latter
had loudly counted one-two, one-two, while
Chopin stubbornly maintained that he was
playing in 3/4.
The concluding chapters are a study of
modern rhythmical developments, espe-
cially those of Stravinsky, whom Sachs
acclaims in the words of the American
composer Aaron Copland as • having
given “a rhythmic hypodermic” to Euro-
pean music; and there are some words
on jazz, none of the devices of which
are new to music:—-
To be sure, it will not do to squeeze the
whole unpapery complex of jazz-rhythm
into a few devices easily rendered on paper.
More than in any chamber or concert-hail
music, rhythm is here often intangible,
irrational and inaccessible to cold analysis.
More than in most of our Western music,
it is the moving force that drives the
melody on, now smoothing its flow, now
rushing it forward head over heels, and
always giving it the continuous spirited
impulse that the jazzer calls by the beautiful,
untranslatable word “the swing.”
Not the swing, but at least the devices
of rhythmic flexibility have been imitated
in many ambitious “art” compositions in
and outside America. However convincing
such devices are in improvisation, they have
not always been convincing on paper. And
yet they have enriched our musical
language.
Such a huge study is not to be com-
prehended by a reviewer in a week or
a month; but it is extraordinarily stimu-
lating to one whose study of rhythm has
been restricted mainly to that of verse
because of the enormous field it opens to
speculation. We are too prone to think
qf verse-rhythms as set, one type coming
into fashion for a few years and then
being discarded for another. One would
like to see a rhythmical analysis of
Eliot’s “Prufrock,” perhaps the most
remarkable poem of this century, and
certainly the most successful and influen-
tial. Seen casually in its few lines
sprawled to a page, it looks like a long
piece of free verse. But closer examina-
tion shows that it is organised into sec-
tions, with some parts repeating almost
exact stanza-form; it develops with
something of the feeling of a rhapsody;
and concludes with a recapitulation
(“No ; I am not Prince Hamlet, nor was
meant to be”), and a coda (“I grow old,
I grow old”) of such rhymic force, and
so evocative of music that one can
almost hear the crash of the concluding
chords.
If poetry can often get effects that are
beyond the power of words to describe,
it is rhythm that achieves them; and a
diversity of rhythms should be as much
a poet’s stock-in-trade as a diversity of
metaphor.-
R. McC.
Lodwick in Spain
John Lodwick, already the author of
some dozen earlier novels, is, surely, one
of the most prodigal of present-day
writers. His Somewhere a Voice Is
Calling (Heinemann) is longer than the
average novel, was written in less than a
year and has a full and fascinating plot.
As if this is not enough, the author is
such an inveterate yarn-spinner that
almost every other page carries some
anecdote that might well be the basis of
a complete novel for some less inventive
author.
Thornton, a minor consular official,
moves through Spain during the course
of the book. He is a peculiar character,
perhaps slightly unbalanced mentally,
with, behind him, a somewhat wild and
unconventional career. His friends are
from all strata of society, both English
and Continental, and include a wonderful
character: Barry Keating, deserter from
the English Army, who is discovered in
Minorca profitably running a very odd
business.
As Thornton travels he remembers
incidents concerning his relationship and
life with his first wife, Gloria, who is
buried in a small Mediterranean town.
Gloria had in her life given her husband
frequent and various cause for jealousy.
Now he is married to young French girl
the jealousy persists, coloring his feelings
towards her: making him unreasonably—
or is he unreasonable? —suspicious.
The plot is too subtle and intricate for
summary—the situation leads, at last, to
a weird, almost dreamlike, murder.
Lodwick writes uncommonly well—his
book is diffuse and to some extent un-
organised, but the main thread is never
lost. Among other gems haphazardly
tossed into it are an extremely interesting
and no doubt authentic account of
archeology in Minorca; Thornton’s cat,
which is one of the best cats in modem
fiction; a collection of extremely funny
and often improper incidents and stories ;
and a wonderful ability to give the
atmosphere of a place. If one had to
use a word to describe John Lodwick
briefly “gusto” would be the most
appropriate.
Reviewed Briefly
The Knotted Cord: Jerzy Pietrkiewicz
(Heinemann). The author is a Pole who
went to England in 1940; he has learned
the language very well in that time, and
also remembered his beginnings. This is
the novel of a child whose mother dedi-
cated him to the church; he was dressed
from childhood as a priest, and reverenced
as a saint by the Polish villagers. Much
is made of the child’s friendship with a
reputed witch ; and the big scene is of the
struggle between the villagers and a group
of religious fanatics.
* * * *
Catch-As-Catch-Can: Charlotte Arm-
strong (Peter Davies). A beautiful young
girl from a French-speaking island near
New Caledonia becomes, through a set
of wildly improbable circumstances,
heiress to half a million dollars, and lives
with some relatives in an American city.
Due to a misunderstanding she runs away
to a mysterious gipsy-like woman friend.
However, before her departure she has
been accidentally poisoned, although her
life can be saved if an antidote is pro-
vided in time. She is ignorant of and
frightened by Western ways. Her wicked
cousin Clive knows her whereabouts, but
prefers to let her die so that he will inherit
her fortune. Her good cousin Dee,
another beautiful girl, sets out to find
Laila, the poisoned one. Dee’s fiance goes
along on the chase. It is all very exciting
and carried out with some originality,
and Charlotte Armstrong provides some
amusing touches of suspense.


emor
Dom*t entertain flies this Summer!
Buy expanding wire screens now!
F
a
I
a
mm
mm
mm
I
■J©
3*5
©
/
weehly news of activities , values and advantages front Anthony Border ns
ft
iraa imtmt
I4in. x 19in,m expands to 1 4in. x 36in, 9 from 7/3 ea.
In with the breeze and out with the flies with our modem expanding window screens
from only 7/3 each. Just raise the window, place your wire screen to any width
you require (from 14in. x 19in. to any size up to 14in. x 36in. wide). When screen
fits snugly, draw window down and. presto, your window is flyproof! They come in
unpainted wood frames (just ready for any handyman to put a dab of paint and
blend with your own colour schemes), with galvanised wire at 12/3 each, or with
bronze wire at 16/9 each. Homemakers can obtain the metal frames (painted
green), fitted with galvanised wire and priced at only 7/3 each.
Fly-wire screen door from 57'9
Come in 9 designs 9 3 sizes in bronze or galvanised wire
Guard, your family’s health and keep those flies out this summer! Check your door
for size and order now! ’Phone M 2401, ask for T.O.P.S. (Anthony Horderns’
Telephone Orders Personal Shopping Service), quote No. of door, size, whether
galvanised or bronze wire screen and your fly wire screen door will be on your next
delivery. Remember, Anthony Horderns’ fly door frames are made by expert crafts-
men from selected Oregon. Yes, we can supply handles, bolts and spring hinges
for only 3/6 set extra.
sdf
sd
m
No 9
f
mSI
sd
fsd
f
No 7
sdf
EEB
s
df
sdf
C 33
ds
Colourful Cunvus Blinds
Made up to any style you choose
This year the trend will be to “add colour” to your home with the latest
style of canvas blinds. Anthony Horderns’ can make up all styles of blinds
either dropout or plain drop style. Call into our famous Blind Department
(3rd Floor) and view our extensive range of canvases. Stripes or Cay Stripes.
RING M 2401
ask for T.O.P.S.
(Telephone Orders)
1 ;
* V.I
:^i*y»'*~»y<^y*y>'
• -•
-
±.
: v> :>
Quality Scutch Hullund 111 intis
Made to any size and in six different colours
Yes! Anthony Horderns’ can make up all your Holland Blinds to any size,
in plain, kilted or fringed, in six different designs. Our huge range of
colours include Beige, Brown, Sand, Slate Grey, Jade Green and Red.
Next time you’re in town be sure to call up to our Holland Blind Department.
Srd FLOOR. MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
’PHONE M 2401
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
f
df


Only his cheque-book (if any) saves him
Making, Fun of Father
By GAVIN CASEY
MAKING fun of father is, un-
doubtedly, a pastime that has
been popular for many genera-
tions, possibly all of them, but it
seems to have got rather out of hand these
days,
Not so long ago poor old dad was
regarded as the possessor of at least some
wisdom, experience and other qualities,
even if we did, sometimes, sing “What’s
the Matter with Father?” to keep him
in his place. In the song, however, we
at least paid a sort of mercenary tribute
to him as the one who “signs the
cheques,” and we finished-up with the
shout “He’s ALL RIGHT!”
The cheque-writing ability of the old
man is, of course, still something to be
reckoned with, and maintains for him
the last vestige of his once-mighty
authority. But so many ways have been
worked out to wheedle dad into loose-
handed fountain-pen work that only in
the most gruesome crisis does he ever
button-up his cheque-book firmly and
defy his family. *
Some modern fathers never manage
it. The status of the breed as domestic
animals rather less lovable than the dog,
though more obedient, and a trifle more
fun than the family goldfish, has been
well established.
Many powerful forces have worked to-
gether to mould public opinion on father
so that he is now regarded as a feckless
creature, amusing sometimes, obstinate
and troublesome occasionally but
generally eager to wag his tail with de-
light if patted or scratched gently behind
the ears, where his psychological fleas
seem to congregate. Press, radio, movies
and magazines have all fostered the view,
and a number of the more comical of
the comic-strips, in particular, offer the
daily lesson that father is a natural victim
of his wife, his young, his boss, his
friends and all the objects animate and
inanimate that surround him.
In the strips, mother possesses most of
the beauty of the pair, which is probably
the case with most couples as dad’s beer-
muscles and chins accumulate or his
flesh goes into stringy folds, like that of
a skinny elephant. But the artists are
traitors to their sex when they give him
no forehead, little chin or too much, a
mouth that either gapes in astonishment
or leers smugly at the world when he
thinks—absurdly, of course, the old goat!
—that he has had a win for once.
Not a few but many of the nicest,
wittiest, most generous, kindly and sen-
sible people I know are men. They are
men, moreover, well past the firm-fleshed,
muscular good-looks of their physical
heyday, and if this surprises the young
it only shows how strong the influence of
the comic-strips has been.
Movies mostly deal with the young,
pulchritudinous and semi-idiotic of both
sexes, but when they get down to what
they consider comedy about the middle-
and old, such as the “Ma and Pa
Kettle” series, the fans soon see which
member of a partnership acquires wisdom
with the years. Father almost inevitably
blunders in and out of troubles an intelli-
gent cocker,-spaniel would have the fore-
sight to avoid, and is rescued by an irri-
tated, overworked, long-suffering but
loving and heroic wife. The old boy—
perhaps because in real life he still pro-
vides the money for picture-shows—has
a heart of gold, but he has the brain of a
mentally-retarded guinea-pig.
It is a wonder that the human race,
having had to rely on such providers for
so long, did not die out long ago from
starvation.
The story-writers, alas, seem often to
fall for this myth of the stumbling, inept,
harassed male supported through life by
the noble, experienced and tolerant
woman, who smoothes the way to what-
ever triumphs he has, conciliates the
influential people he tactlessly offends,
and even persuades the children that poor
dad can’t help being the way he is, and
that what his hopelessly old-fashioned
eye can’t see his out-of-date heart won’t
grieve over. The magazines mainly sup-
port the point of view pictorially, and
this, or the methods adopted, displease
me very much.
Magazines have short, silly seasons of
publishing photos of people in old-
fashioned clothes, which their caption-
writers jeer at. When the outlandish
garments are on women the scorn is most
distinctly for the cloth and the way it is
shaped, not for the human enclosed by it.
The implication is that women are to be
congratulated and admired for having
made an astonishing sartorial advance in
the few years since the picture was taken,
and sometimes there is a strong sug-
gestion that it was the bullying, domineer-
ing men of the Victorian age who made
the poor girls dress that way against their
will.
When a man of the past appears on
the page, however, the caption-writer
can really let his head go. Not only the
clothes but the whiskers, the old-style
spectacles, the clodhopper boots that
suited the old dirt roads and the
uncreased pants are all funny. The man
is obviously a clown, pompous, self-
satisfied and as silly and vain as a pea-
cock, and the modern journalist doesn’t
spare his typewriter in saying so.
I can only hope that the modern
journalist in question is not crouching
over his desk wearing more hair than his
mother had, with the mop parted right
down to the nape of his neck in the
modern fashion. If he is, and is also clad
in an atomic-blast Hollywood tie, a two-
color jacket with no lapels, brilliant
corduroy trousers and lush suede shoes
with sponge-rubber soles an inch thick,
the day may come when his ghost will
peer over the shoulder of a later young
journalist and see a picture of himself,
for which his successor is gleefully writ-
mg a caption on what the lads thought
becoming in the 1950’5.
Actually, I suspect that our fathers
took themselves less seriously than we do
today. The fop was despised, the antics
of the dandy of the day satirised in shows
which now have no equivalent. The
mashers and the overdressed were
numerous enough, in spite of the laughter
they caused, but they were not regarded
with the solemn concern with which we
look at our bodgies, or made the subjects
of powerful social studies.
It was reckoned that when they got to
better terms with the world most of them
would grow out of it, and most of them
did, turning into sober, sensible men who
wore quietly utilitarian clothes, large
watches on chains because efficient small
ones to strap to the wrist were not then
manufactured, and often whiskers be-
cause King Gillette had not then got
around to making it easy and bloodless
for the male half of humanity to shear
itself into womanly pinkness.
In Australia much fun is aimed at the
quantity, as well as the shapes and pat-
terns, of the clothes our fathers wore,
but the vogue of shorts, anyway, has
resulted from adaptation to our climate,
not from a variety of progress that was
going on everywhere. Even today, in
northern lands, shorts are seldom worn
except at such places as the tennis-court
—which is why, when the members of
most other races do wear them, they
look as though they had put on the
wife’s by mistake. Anyway, long before
shorts, but in the days of cheap laundry
service, a method of solving the summer-
wear problem had been imported from
India.
If anything is more laughable these
times than a picture of granddad in his
sturdy broadcloth, moustachios and
bowler-hat it is one showing him in what
was almost the civilian summer uniform
of his day. But it was cooler than what
most of us can wear in the office, the
shop, the city street, or anywhere else
but the home or the beach now.
The great pith-helmet was as light as
a feather, and it really shaded the face
and the back of the neck. The jacket,
with its military cut, suggested a field-
marshal’s baton emerging from a knap-
sack, but its stiffened high collar stood
away from the neck instead of clinging
to it damply, and let the breezes dry the
sweat. Under the jacket there was noth-
ing but the skin, also left accessible to
the cooler air as the coat-tails swung.
The trousers were not short, but it is
doubtful if anybody would have been
much cooler had they been, for the whole
suit was of tussore-silk, thin linen or
drill, or some other of the fabrics that
were practical when a man could don a
newly-washed and -pressed one every day
without impoverishing himself.
Altogether, I’m sure that granddad
made himself pretty comfortable, and
had a lot of fun in the conditions of his
day, which were, of course, as “modern”
to him as ours are to us. Of the well-
being of his son, the father we currently
make fun of, I am not so sure. This
generation of fathers has, I feel, been
comic-strip-ridden, movie-ridden, fiction-
ridden, photo-ridden and, perhaps, hag-
THE HUON CAMPAIGN
(Part Two)
by
M. H. Ellis (“Ek Dum”)
The first part of this stirring
account of the planning and
action of the Australian forces in
the vital Huon Campaign appears
in the present issue (p. 25).
The second, concluding, part
—describing the actual fighting
—will be among the outstand-
ing features in next week’s
“Bulletin.”
ridden into the position of a not-very-
useful but mildly desirable appendage to
the family, and is having the worst time
dads have ever had in history.
I’m afraid I’m going to regret it when
my sons grow up. The other day, when
I was tossing some cases of junk into a
lumber-room, the one of them who is now
five said, in tones of concern and venera-
tion that would have been a credit to an
Oriental worshipper of seniority, “I
know you shouldn’t do that, Daddy, be-
cause you’re so very, very old,”
There will be no more of that non-
sense, I know, when the black-and-white
artists and all the rest of them have
educated him into appreciation of exactly
what an outmoded, fuddy-duddy misfit
and social liability I really am.
Q’s (With Model A’s) for Newshounds
QA NOTORIOUS dope-
■ pedlar and procuress who
, has a list of convictions as
long as your arm gets a
fractured skull when she is crowned
with a bottle in a Darlinghurst gang-
feud. You are assigned to interview
her in her home after she is dis-
charged from hospital. There is only
one adjective permissible to apply to
the home, one term to describe the
lady. Name them.
A; Palatial; Queen of the Under-
world.
Q • A girl hiker in the Blue Moun-
tains has been found by a party after
having been lost for two days fn
warm weather, and from your inter-
view with her you get sufficient copy
for half a column. You only say
of her physical appearance that her
face “visibly showed the strain of her
harrowing experience”—she had been
without food and water for the last
four hours of her ordeal. Would
this be correct procedure?
A: No. She must only be de-
scribed as beautiful. All girls must
be beautiful.
Q: “Slugger” Ryan, an habitual,
is handed seven years after having
been found guilty of laying a citizen
out with a lead-pipe and “fanning”
him in broad daylight in a city park,
In your report of the trial there is
only one possible adjective to apply
to his crime. What is it?
A: Daring.
Q: But wouldn’t the word “dar-
ing” be more consistent with a dis-
play of courage, and would not its
constant use tend to glorify the
cowardly actions of criminals?
A: So what?
Q: You interview a nonagenarian
couple who are celebrating their
diamond-wedding anniversary. You
have to bellow to make yourself
heard by the old gent., who drools on
for half an hour about one of Alec
Bannerman’s innings, what he
thought of Sir George Reid ’s views
on Freetrade, how lousy he feels
when he gets up of a morning and
that he’s convinced motor-cars are
here to stay. To the standard ques-
tion you put to him he replies that
the secret of happiness in married
life is to start off by making the
missus do as she is told and keeping
it that way and never to allow her
too much to spend. The interview
terminates when he falls asleep while
you are asking' a question. Give a
sample of the finished article which
should appear.
A: Mr. McGoogan, who*still en-
joys robust health and is in posses-
sion of all his faculties, demonstrated
with witty comment that he has a
keen grasp of current affairs. His
stimulating views on marriage are
patently governed by his deep and
tender devotion to his lifelong help-
meet, and a chivalry that in these
days is all too rare.
Q; The drought in silly-season
topics is broken when an overseas
visitor after two days in the city
publicly expresses the view that Syd-
ney is the wickedest city in the British
Commonwealth, Would you arrange
for an immediate interview with the
city’s most limelight-loving parson?
A: That wouldn’t be necessary,
He will already have written and
have on its way to your paper a
long and solemn reply defending Syd-
ney against the attack,
Q; You have to write-up a surf
life-saving carnival. How must the
participants be described?
A: As “sun-bronzed, lithe Greek
gods.”
Q: The cabled story about two
famous Hollywood film-stars claw-
ing at each other’s paintwork over
which one is to star opposite Robert
Mitchum in a forthcoming film
breaks just as you have allotted the
whole of the front page to a world-
important speech by President Eisen-
hower. On what page would you put
the Hollywood scandal?
A: On the front page,
Q: A girl makes the headlines by
attacking and putting to flight a thief
she caught in her flat. The reporter
describes her as “slight and fair-
haired.” This is a serious mis-
demeanor on his part. How should
he have described her?
A: As a “glamor-blonde.”
Q: When do blondes cease, for
journalistic purposes, to be glamor-
blondes?
A: Never.
Q: A young embezzler, standing
trial, is simply described by a re-
porter as having entered the dock.
Alter this to conform with accepted
practice. '
A; “Accused, whose crisp wavy
hair had been neatly brushed,
flashed a smile as he entered the dock
to an attractive girl sitting in the
back of the court. He was clad in
a smartly-cut blue-grey two-piece
suit which had a faint pin-stripe and
rolled lapels, a fringe-edged tie in
tasteful maroon-and-beige checks,
and an expensive nylon shirt in deli-
cate pastel tones.”
Q : A first-class row is in progress
over the allegedly wretched-quality
bread that is being sold. You have
space only for three opinions (with
photos of the opinion-givers) from
a “cross-section of the public.” The
choice is a very simple one. Make
them.
A: Two teenage typists and a 22-
year-old receptionist,
Q: There is one institution in
your city without the assistance of
which your paper might find it very
difficulty© cany on. It is revered
by everybody on the editorial staff
for the unfailing regularity with
which
A: There is no need to go any
further before requesting its name:
Swab Inquiry.
Q; When referring to a jockey
the use of a qualifying adjective is
imperative. Give it.
A: Ace.
Q: A picture of a beach-girl is
sufficiently revealing to justify inclu-
sion, but it has a fatal defect which
causes you to dice it immediately,
What would this defect be?
A: She isn’t grinning.
BO.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 14, 1953
Vol 74—No, 3844
\
The National Australian Newspaper
' “Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney: Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria ; Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
PEACE: THE WAITING GAME
Moscow has agreed, under conditions, to a Fout-
Power Conference on Germany, but the terms are such
that agreeing—in principle—to the meeting seems to
mean nothing. For one thing, the Kremlin requires
also a Four-Power Conference with Communist China,
to “ease world tension,” and as this is regarded as an
attempt to acquire a status as a Great Power for the
U.S.S.R.’s Eastern partner, which in the eyes of
Washington does not exist at all save as a nest of
bandit aggressors, deadlock seems to be the only thing
in sight.
Russia has no intention of coming to discussion
about Germany. It has got Eastern Germany and
intends to keep it. And the United States cannot recede
from its refusal to treat with Peking without admitting
that that city is the seat of a de facto Government, and,
worse, without making a retreat which would affect its
COMPULSORY UNIONISM
“face” in the countries of Asia. Moreover, Russia
aims to torpedo the Korean peace conference, and the
question of Communist China seems to provide the
hpst otvr.rr.ttch fr. thlc
ocbt approacn to inis move.
The agreement reached in U.N.O. on August 28
was that Russia should take part in the Korean
conference provided the Communist combatants
desired it. Subsequently Communist China and North
Korctt demnnded that four Asian neutrals slmuld be
allowed to take part—lndia, Pakistan, Burma and
Indonesia. What influence Burma and Indonesia could
in their own
less exerciS aav real Xenre ta worM wUte But
the aim of Russia asking is obvious^the forma-
tion of an Asia-for-the-Asians bloc which would stand
unitedly; also to link this with the Arab-African
Moslem bloc. This last group has been operating in
concert with the Asians at the U.N.O. Assembly, whose
meeting under the chairmanship of Mrs. Pandit, the
Indian delegate, is engaged in the worst display of
disruption, quarrelling and. particularly frustration yet
on record and that is saying something.
Politically, with all its disruptions and its weak-
nesses, Asia is undoubtedly Russia’s best bet just now.
Russia could overrun Japan, smash helpless India and
Pakistan, swallow Persia and its medieval Govern-
ment, and also engulf Afghanistan, which socially
on| o v n t 8 oo«adv £ U& a“v £
invasion of India and Pakistan if the quid pro quo
WPrf . wnrth while* Thprp wpitk to be an officially-
recognised l organisation in Kabul devoted to the pro-
motion of revolution in Pushtunistan, Pakistan’s
border provinces adjoining Afghan territory, which
has been more than once invaded by considerable
bands under military officers in the last year or two.
Europe has scarcely the same promise for the
Communists. It has only one advantage for them—a
growing dislike of United States methods of diplomacy
and the assumptions of the American Press that
financial aid and military support have somehow
secured Washington’s control of world politics and
the right to interfere in any corner of the globe, and
especially to step into the shoes which for years it has
been demanding that Britain and France should
discard.
There was the same tendency in the United States
Government before General Eisenhower became
President —a tendency which had already been coun-
tered vigorously by the Canadians. American Govern-
mental tactics are still noisy and United States views,
even those of the .State Department, are apt to be
expressed in language nearly as * violent as that of
Moscow. The Russian tactics in respect of the Four-
Power Conference, as made manifest in the Russian
Note, may be “a long-winded stall,” and an “evasive
continuation of the Soviet’s dilatory tactics,” but little
is to be gained by such recrimination with the kind
of enemy the Soviet Union is.
The British attitude is both more dignified and
more effective. Its effort is also more realistic in that
it is combining great advances in technical air- and
radar-development and atomic science with a con-
ciliatory attitude which leaves the way open for
friendly exchanges and trade when possible.
The waiting game is clearly the right game, when
played from strength. If the Eastern European satel-
lites of Russia were well under control Moscow might
risk war, but events of the last few months have
shown that Russia has her hands full of wildcats in
these subjugated States. Moscow can have little doubt,
after the United States agreements with Spain and the
past year’s developments in Nato, that Germany and
France will be defended from any aggression by the
whole civilised world. And Malenkov and his friends
can have little doubt, either, about what side their
own happy colonies of Czechoslovakia, Hungary,
Poland and East Germany would be* praying for in
the event of hostilities —no more doubt, in fact, than
exists as to the probable result of a free election in
any of them, particularly in Czechoslovakia and East
Germany.
That Russia, if it cannot achieve world dominion
by the cold war, intends to indulge in a shooting war
is inherent in Communism, which would cease to be
Communism without it. Lenin wrote in his Deception
of the People
Yes, the Bolsheviks undertook a revolution....
the violent overthrow of the bourgeois government,
a break with all tradit ionai habits, promises, heri-
STSSit
suppress the property-owning classes, undertook it
to pnu tb^hte" ho lnd
revolutionary war is also a war, also a burdensome,
l &o» d »SSiito 'Sf ttrtf
a r ” action on a worid sca ie.
document* is nart of Russian doctrine today, and
is used as a Communist textbook the world over by
the advocates of “peace,” who understand that in
Russian argot “peace” means peace attained through
the violent destruction of the liberal system which
permits anybody in British and most other Westernised
countries complete freedom, even the freedom to herd
with treason.
a real influence on the side of peace is time,
which might blot out tbe protagonists of world revolu-
tiop fcy ernal explosion due to comprehension of
where Kremlin policy may lead. Hence, patient, quiet
and simplified explanation of what Communism stands
f or a better weapon than any exchange of recrimina-
tions It would do more for pe ace than anything else
cou i d jf jt could be brought home to every person in
tbe wor j d that Communism holds and teaches its
organisers that “every kind of freedom is a fraud if it
B contradictory to the interests of ‘he g"Cifition
labor from the oppression of capitalism, that
“freedom of meeting for the capitalists is the greatest
crime against the toilers,” that humanity cannot obtain
Socialism otherwise than through the dictatorship of
the proletariat —stern, serious, bloody and violent.”
And the work of bringing this home should be carried
on until hope is killed by the first volley of a new war.
Mr. Cahill's Dog-collar Act
The effects of the Cahill Dog-collar Act for N. S.
Wales will be felt not only by those resident in the
State, but by the whole commercial and industrial
community of the Commonwealth. It is impossible
to introduce a principle so devastating in a State which
holds three-sevenths of the population of the Com-
monwealth without the whole feeling its repercussions.
In view of the structure of the “Labor” party,
conscription of workers into the unions is not merely
industrial conscription applying to the whole com-
munity but political conscription. As Mr. Curtin said,
trade-unions “predominantly compose the A.L.P.”
And they finance the A.L.P, So that any Liberal who
is forced to join a union by Mr. Cahill s and Mr.
Heffron’s Dog-collar Act also will be forced to join a
political body with which he violently disagrees, to
subscribe through union funds to a belief which he
perhaps holds in abhorrence, and to have the facilities
of his union applied to defeat his own beliefs and
further those of opponents whom he holds in contempt.
He will see his representatives sitting in the Trades
and Labor Council which is advertised in A.L.P.
Federal documents as a section of the “Labor” party.
In fact, he will find himself part of a union-system as
politically despotic as that which operates in Russia,
the ideal of Mr. Heffron’s youth in the days when he
was urging the workers to replace the “white terror”
in Australia with the Red Terror, and of Mr. J. A.
Ferguson, lately president of the N. S, Wales A.L.P.,
who believed that the workers did not care what
controls they were subject to so long as they had good
wages and the right to loaf.
The most extraordinary feature of the matter is
the support which the plan is receiving from Dr. Evatt,
as leader of the Federal Opposition. At least it would
be extraordinary in anybody but Dr. Evatt. He is the
author of much that is in U.N.O.’s Declaration of
Human Rights, the ardent supporter of Article 20 of
the Charter, which reads:
Everyone has the right to freedom of professional
assembly and association. No one may be compelled
to belong to any association.
It would be inconsistent in most men to have
sponsored this principle and solemnly accepted it as
a condition precedent to Australia s membership of
<he United Nations, “d then afterwards to say they
believed that 98 or 99 pe • unionism” It
employers WOUld Welcome Compulsory Umomsm. 11
WO uld be even more inconsistent in most men to have
taken this stand after having pressed in U.N.O. the
view that “it was no use making declarations of rights
unless there was also the requisite machinery to enforce
them” and after fathering the idea that the Inter-
national Court should be invoked to operate against
countries which infringed. But in Dr. Evatt there is
never anything consistent except his inconsistency.
About , he only hopeful feature of the Cahill-
Heffron proposal is that it is scarcely practical politics,
In Queensland a pmtcnceismadeat a
similar scheme, but there. the “ndmons are different
and at least ° u “™ b a ~ more under
awards In oth “ State which are more undei
Federa awards, compulsory muon sm » hkely to
create two classes o i , M tbe Hieh
court ha“ held that the preference section (Section 561
Commonwealth GonStio? »d Arbitration
Act does not preve nt employers from engaging non-
un j on i abor when union labor is not available or
willing. It has held that the section does not give a
un i on a monopoly of employment, and that preference
must operate on the basis that the labor offering is
both suitable and competent.
It is impossible t 0 believe that Mr. Cahill’s newest
contribution towards the establishment of State
Socialism and regimentation of political opinion under
the iron hand of the Trades Hall-A.L.P will be
accepted by very large groups of workers who do not
vote with political Labor.


PLAIN ENGLISH
London-Christchurch
Between Sleeps
There could be no better advertisement
for British aviation generally and the
Canberra jet-bomber in particular than
the fact that the London-to-Christchurch
Air Race, planned as an international
event, turned out, as far as the speed
section was concerned, to be a race be-
tween five Canberras —three of them
R.A.F. machines, two R.A.A.F. Seem-
ingly it was accepted that no other long-
distance bombers had the speed and re-
liability to match themselves against the
Canberras with the eyes of the world
looking on.
Australians, sharing with the people of
the United Kingdom a pride in the excel-
lence of British aeroplane-design, find
additional pleasure in the knowledge that
the two Australian entrants were built
in Australia by Australian workmen.
Flight-Lieutenant R. L. Burton
(R.A.F.), with stops at Shaibah, Colombo,
Cocos and Perth, reached Christchurch in
23 hours 51min. 7.2 seconds and became
the first man to fly from Britain to New
Zealand in less than a day. Squadron-
Leader P. F. Raw (R.A.A.F.), flying via
Bahrein, Colombo, Cocos and Woomera,
was 41 minutes behind him and two
minutes ahead of Flight-Lieutenant R. M.
Furze (R.A.F.), who followed the same
route as Burton. Wheel trouble had cost
Raw 76 minutes at Woomera.
Leaders of both the R.A.F. and
R.A.A.F. teams met with misfortune.
Squadron-Leader Hodges, flying an “im-
proved” Canberra, which started favorite,
struck generator trouble in Perth and
Wing-Commander Cuming burst a tyre at
Cocos. Both ultimately completed the
course—Hodges on Saturday and Cuming
on Monday morning.
In the handicap section the Dutch entry,
an ever-reliable U.S. Douglas, took first
place, with the B.E.A. Vickers Viscount
turbo-jet, which conceded the Dutchman
a terrific handicap, second. The Viscount
clocked-in at Christchurch in 40 hours
49 minutes and the Douglas, which carried
59 Dutch migrants for New Zealand, in
49 hours 57 minutes.
Of the Canberras and their telescoping
of space and time, it seems a little un-
canny to realise that Burton, Raw, Furze
and their crews got out of bed in the
early hours of last Friday (in terms of
Sydney time) and flew halfway round the
world before going to bed again—12,427
miles between sleeps!
Lesson From Guiana
Events in British Guiana sound a warn-
ing of the danger of giving too much
power of self-government to peoples not
sufficiently conditioned by experience for
democracy. Burma and some Indian
provinces already have given illustrations
of what happens when countries are sud-
denly torn away from an established
tradition of medievalism and asked to
apply principles which even some en-
lightened European countries cannot
apply successfully and which long-
instructed and sober people like the
British are only now, after centuries of
trial, learning to apply efficiently.
British Guiana is a small, tropically
lush, tropically inert sugar-and-timber
colony which has been British since 1814
and free of slavery since 1834. It has a
liaison with Sydney in that its capital has
a Bent-street named after our first
Supreme Court judge, who was trans-
ferred there. It has the usual Caribbean
background of mixed races, native Indian,
negro, Spanish, Dutch, Portuguese,
Chinese, French, Syrian, British and,
finally, the East Indian bloods.
The East Indians are rapidly becoming
a majority. There and in S. Africa they
are a problem as soon as they land. They
breed rapidly, and apply their basic habits
of eloquence to disrupting the community.
Communists love them because their
movements outside Asia never attain
practicality in themselves but are an
effective explosive for breaking the
solidity of a well-disciplined polyglot
community and preparing it for the recep-
tion of Communist doctrines of revolu-
tion.
British Guiana is certainly a polyglot
community. Its bloods have become a
seething and hysterical mixture, the rich
negro, East Indian and Portuguese and
their admixtures at the wealthy top of
the social level (most of them English-
educated, with aped public-school
accents), and below that a jumbled racial
mass with the mentality of the jungle.
An excellent picture of the colony’s life
and atmosphere can be had from the
works of its native novelist Mittelholzer,
whose interpretation of life in its capital
of Georgetown in his Life and Death of
Sylvia is probably not much over-colored.
On this jungle community of 400,000-
odd devil-may-care polyglots, largely free
of the burdens of formal education, the
philanthropists of the Labor era of the
1920’6 in Britain imposed, witli the sud-
denness of a blow, the kind of school-
education thought suitable to the inno-
cent children of West London and Man-
chester and therefore considered to be
the basic ingredient of civilisation and
culture. The recipe was applied without
regard to its suitability to either the
unstable racial mentality or the general
stage of civilisation of the victims, who
were rendered groggy by the impact of
the blow which prised them loose from
their natural foundations.
While they were reeling round punch-
drunk, muttering the formal demand for
liberty and social equality which are the
shibboleths of the kind of erudition
peddled by Socialists and long-haired
anthropologists, the Attlee Government
arrived and hit them harder with the gift
of responsible government of a type suit-
able only for the most sober-minded and
racially-unified peoples. Now, as victims
of an East Indian agitator of the rich pro-
fessional classes, they seem to be headed
for bloodshed.
It should be a lesson for Australia,
which, under the influence of Mr. E. J.
Ward —who, as Minister, found no differ-
ence between the denizens of Surry Hills
and the Sepik—has begun to push the
New Guinea native toward native
Socialism and civilisation all too rapidly
for his mentality. Liberty is too strong a
medicine for peoples who have not
reached the stage of understanding it and
among whom there is no unified moral
consciousness to act as a brake on licence.
Repatriation Flaws
“Jaef”: In a recent case reported in the
Sydney Press a 32-year-old returned-
soldier was removed from Yaralla Re-
patriation Hospital to the Liverpool Old
Men’s Home! He was discharged from
the Army with an injury to the knee, and
arthritis developed.
Apparently (from the report) the con-
dition is generalised, and apparently the
Repatriation Department accepted re-
sponsibility for it (though this cannot be
taken for granted, as, frequently, patients
are admitted for diagnosis and report).
But the man is now sightless, one eye
having been removed at Yaralla two
years ago, the other recently. It seems
clear from the newspaper report that the
department accepts no responsibility for
the eye condition which necessitated the
operations. So, since his blindness is not
accepted as due to war service, he has
been sent to a State institution. He
would like to be back at Yaralla.
There have been similar cases, some
of them receiving publicity in the news-
papers, others buried in departmental
files. A man with inoperable cancer was
reported not so long ago to have been
sent home to die. The Minister for
Repatriation, Senator Cooper, was
annoyed about that incident, and it is
unlikely that it would have occurred had
he heard of it in time. But in a big
department a great many things occur
without a Minister’s consent or know-
ledge.
All the same, in very few of these
cases do departmental officers act im-
properly, according to the rules. The
question a Repatriation doctor (and the
various hierarchies above him) has to
answer is: whether a particular disability
is the responsibility of the Repatriation
Department: did it arise, directly or in-
directly, from war service? If the answer
is negative (except for a few special cate-
gories of ex-servicemen) the man is no
concern of the department.
Nothing could be further from the truth
than the popular belief that if a returned
soldier is sick “Repat. will look after
him.” The Repatriation Department will
look after him, and very well, if his con-
dition is accepted. But the business of
getting disabilities accepted is often highly
technical, and, in practice, the department
relies a good deal on documentary
evidence.
If, for instance, a man is wounded in
action and goes through the ordinary
channels of R.A.P., field hospital, base
hospital, and the records are there to
prove it, there is no difficulty. If a man
has nothing on his service records to
show wounds or illness —as can happen—
he may have a very tough time proving
his case. True, there is an onus-of-proof
clause in the Repatriation Act which is
intended to give a claimant the benefit
of any reasonable doubt. Sometimes it
is interpreted liberally. Sometimes it is
not.
And here we come to the root of the
whole matter. Distressing as individual
cases may be, they are not so distressing
as the weaknesses inherent in a system in
which the opinions of departmental medi-
cal-officers, of no more than average pro-
fessional standing, carry more weight
than the opinions of independent medi-
cal specialists: in which the final court
of appeal is not a court at all but an
administrative tribunal. Because that is
how the system works.
An ex-serviceman who considers he has
.been denied justice has a right of appeal
—in fact, several rights—but the final
decision rests with a body called an
Entitlement Tribunal. The members of
such tribunals are conscientious and up-
right men, but they publish no report of
their findings, and they can only be
appealed against by writ of mandamus:
if they neglect the forms of law, in which
case they may be required by the High
Court to hear a case again. No appeal
against a decision, as such, is possible.
That, at least, is the precedent estab-
lished by a particular case.
The whole problem is complex, and
does not seem amenable to any easy
remedy. But, as Carleton Kemp Allen
pointed out, as long ago as 1931, in
Bureaucracy Triumphant, the principle
of establishing more and more quasi-
judicial tribunals is dangerous, since the
tendency is to drift further away from
our judicial system. In Bureaucracy
Triumphant case-history after case-
history is given to demonstrate how
bureaucrats, in the service of their de-
partments, do things which would horrify
them if they did them for their private
gain. Since then the tendency has been
accelerated.
That is the great evil of the system. It
seems extraordinary that a man who has
served his country honorably should, in
the vital matter of medical care, be denied
the redress available to the meanest of
her Majesty’s subjects in a court of law.
—•—■
An Un-uniform Tax
There is always plenty of material for
argument when the Premiers meet the
Prime Minister and Federal Treasurer for
the annual wrangle over sharing out the
income-tax spoils, but it looks as if they
will have a new problem to cheW on next
year. This will be whether or not State
Entertainments-tax should be taken into
consideration in arriving at the reim-
bursement figures.
In the Budget debate the Government
attitude seemed to be that its withdrawal
from that field of taxation was a genuine
gift to the taxpayers, but the Opposition
claimed that the move was a plot to thrust
an unpopular tax on to the shoulders of
the State Governments.
West Australia and Tasmania were
quick to swoop on this taxation titbit
which dropped from the Federal Budget;
they started collecting their fun-tax on
October 1, the day the Federal impost
lapsed. Victoria was just as quick in de-
cision, but a little dilatory in act, with the
result that Victorian citizens enjoyed a
week of tax-free pictures and dances be-
fore they began paying the toll again.
The other three States are at present for
the first time in many years without enter-
tainment-tax of any kind, though there is
strong suspicion that as far as New South
Wales is concerned the imminence of two
by-elections may have something to do
with this.
Premier Cain, defending his bill in the
Victorian Assembly, said:
If Victoria did not avail itself of the
opportunity to impose entertainments tax,
but asked for an increased allocation of
loan funds, its application would be re-
fused.
In Tasmania Mr. Cosgrove was not so
explicit, but as he has shown that he ex-
pects the Commonwealth Grants Commis-
sion to reimburse his State for the antici-
pated loss of revenue from Tatt’s, he will
find it hard to dispute Cain’s argument.
West Australia’s Mr. Hawke also seems
to accept it as fact that the entertainment-
tax is tied up with reimbursements under
the uniform-tax plan, and this is also im-
plicit in Premier, Cahill’s comment that
the Commonwealth Government
Is adopting a policy of vacating minor tax-
fields, such as land and entertainments,
with the object of forcing the States to
exploit those revenue sources by denying
to them a reasonable share of Inco'me-tax
collections.
This sort of argument will continue as
long as uniform-taxation is retained;
it emphasises the fact that the sooner
that system is brought to an end the
better. At present, though the Federal
and several of the State Governments pro-
fess to be in favor of ending it, no one
is doing anything about it.
Noises From Canberra
When Parliamentary broadcasts were
first heard from Canberra it was sug-
gested that they should be a very good
thing in revealing to listeners the kind of
men the listeners were electing to the
national Parliament. The point was that,
while it would be unfair to judge a poli-
tician simply on his ability or otherwise
at speech-making, what he said would be
a fair revelation of what he thought* and
on that would rest the elector’s judg-
ment.
Revelations there have been, by mem-
bers of all parties, but any effect on
Federal elections is a very doubtful
matter. For, most obviously, a great num-
ber of electors vote for the party, not the
man, and the biggest ignoramus can de-
pend on election if his party pre-
dominates in the electorate. If this were
not true members who can now be heard
making speeches in both Houses wouldn’t
be there.
The worst feature, however, from the
national point of view, is that Federal
Parliamentary debates are no longer de-
bates on national issues. They are, for
the most part, simply election-speeches
in which anything goes.
A Government man speaks. An
Opposition man gets the call, immedi-
ately decries the previous speaker, then
launches into an attack on the Govern-
ment, reminds listeners what his party
did while in power and promises what
it will do when it regains power. The
next Government speaker, perforce, feels
called upon to reply to all this, and soon
the “debate” is nothing else but rival
candidates slangwhanging each other at
what amounts to an election meeting.
Thus Parliamentary broadcasting has
failed in its original praiseworthy pur-
pose, which was to give electors a chance
to hear the nation’s business being done.
Except in one or two instances, no
ordinary citizen listening to the long list
of Budget speeches (for example) could
gain any other impression but that a lot
of rival barrackers were having an open
argument in a pub after the match. The
Budget itself got lost somewhere early in
the piece. No wonder fewer and fewer
people listen to rarliament.
The Friendless City
From Molongloside:
Canberra, in which tens of millions of pounds
have been invested, becomes more and more
a menace to Australia as it becomes further
remote from realities. At present it is only
in its first stage of development; but already
the machine controls its owners—the Australian
taxpayers. „ „ , , •
As a city it is unique. Mr. Gullett s descrip-
tion of it as something like a town in the Suez
Canal Zone, without the palms .and camels, is
unjust to the Canal Zone. No Arab or Egyptian
who might tolerate its flatness would tolerate
its lack of color. The granite of Aberdeen i
warm in hue beside its stark whites and cement
greys.
Its circuitous roads and abundant and some-
what monotonous foliage and blossoms are
more familiar to western Americans than to
Asians. It needs only a few loudspeakers
emitting soft music from its groves of larch
and prunes to complete the illusion or its
explorer that he is in the heart of one of the
more lush Californian cemeteries. Its air is
wholly funereal, Its black Homburgs and bare
polls wandering amid the trees add to its air o
mourning, as do its hallowed segregations.
Canberra is segregated from the life ot me
Commonwealth. Parliament House is segregate
from Canberra and is treated as a shrme with
a privileged priesthood. Nobody may ea
within a mile and a half of Parliament House
unless (a) he brings his own sandwiches, (b)
can afford first-class hotel charges, (c) is the
guest of a Member of Parliament. You cannot
buy a lead-pencil or any necessity of life within
a quarter of an hour’s journey of the House.
If you are allowed to stay at one of the two
hotels within reasonable walking distance ot me
Post Office or the House it is because M.P.s
do not want the space. And while at the
Kurrajong Hotel members are on a bed-anu-
breakrast rate of a few shillings a night, mem-
bers of the public, even when they have regulai
business with Parliament, are severely di -
couraged. They are charged full board [
£1 16s. a day, with no option of bed-ana-
breakfast tariff, for the cuisine and accommo-
dation of an old-fashioned suburban boarding-
house—no bar or other amenities normal to a
hotel—even if they only eat breakfast in the
dismal place.
The arrangements of Canberra assure that
only Parliamentarians and pressure-groups sha
have licence to exist close to the sacred
precincts. Indeed, pressure-groups seern to have
become part of the Government. The Chamber
of Manufactures has recently been penmtte
to begin to erect a building from which to
exert its pressures in an area dedicated hitherto
entirely to official purposes and meamngtuiiy
occupying a situation next door to the Nurra-
jong Hotel, where the bulk of the members live.
Next to the Parliament House group is the
almost equally segregated diplomatic group,
isolated in its own lush suburb; the civil-service
groups, isolated according to grading; and th
academic group, till recently the Cinderella sec-
tion, but now, since the foundation ot the
so-called National University—the only univer-
sity in the world so exclusive that it will not
tolerate undergraduates—rising to an effulgence
of its own.
The last group among the inhabitants are the
mere public, who are regarded only as an ant-
heap regards its slave ingredient. This must
(i Continued on page 7\


be limited according to the needs of the
aristocracy and severely discouraged from feeling
any proprietary right or civic interest in the
city, which is the private property of the
bureaucracy run as a Government department
and subject to no law but the Minister’s will.
The only Australians permitted to glimpse
the workings of the strange place are a stream
of tourists smoothly carried in sightseeing buses,
who view it as Americans view Westminster
Abbey and with the same lack of consciousness
that they have any personal interest in it.
It is, however, a place which all Australians
should see, that they might know why the
cost of government has mounted (in the
Federal sphere alone) from £50,000,000 to the
region of £1,000,000,000 a year in 20 years.
Visiting taxpayers should view the riotously
expensive garden landscape created on a barren
gum flat, the foundations of the high mono-
lithic public building near Parliament House
lying at grass after they had been put down
and pulled out as faulty (it is said at a cost
of about £60,000), the monument in artificial
stone to King George V (the fabric of which
cracked before it was even dedicated), the
tortuous roads, the flat, furtive outline of
roofs, the billionaire National University build-
ings, among which the dwelling of one professor
is popularly believed to be costing £50,000,
while the Canberra University College, which
it is presently to engulf, functions in a disused
labor-camp after having been driven from
cramped quarters in a shopping-centre.
By contemplation of these things visiting
taxpayers might perhaps acquire nerve
adequate to enable them to hear the
loutish, irresponsible ribaldry of the Parlia-
mentary proceedings which are the raison d’etre
of Canberra’s existence, along with the sight
of the single administrative building—one
among many—mentioned by the Public
Accounts Committee as having gone up in price
from the £1,500,000 when it was commenced in
1947 to £3,840,000 when it will be finished at
the normal gentle Canberra working-pace in
1957.
Professor Bland should be asked to prepare
a Public Accounts Committee guide to Can-
berra. It would immensely improve Australian
understanding of where the capital, and with
it the Commonwealth, whose policy it controls,
is drifting.
POLITICAL POINTS
In the Sydney newspapers case the
Full High Court refused G. S. Reichen-
bach leave to appeal against the N. S.
Wales Equity Court decision. In effect
this means that “Granny” gets custody of
the “Sun.”
0 0
There is so far no confirmation of the
rumor that Mr. Cosgrove’s mystery visit
to New Zealand involved negotiations for
the acceptance of Tasmania as the
Dominion’s tenth province.
' 0 0
Kahibah and Waverley by-elections
will be fought on compulsory unionism,
Premier Cahill is reported to have said.
They certainly will be, though it is
doubtful whether that is the issue Cahill
would have chosen of his own free will.
The Dulwich Hill by-election was held
soon after Heffron’s first announcement
on compulsion and “Labor's” majority
fell from 5430 in February to 1236 in
June.
0 0
Cost-of-living figures, on which quar-
terly adjustments of wages have cus-
tomarily been made, will probably be
released tHis week, and there’s consider-
able confusion over their effect. The
Arbitration Court’s decision to discon-
tinue quarterly adjustments applied only
to the 25 unions covered by the basic-
wage case. Applications by employers to
have the ruling extended to cover other
employees will be heard by the court on
October 20. Normally an adjustment
would be due from the first pay in
November.
Quite apart from the wages angle the
new index-figures are being awaited with
interest to see if the trend towards
stability evident in the last four quarters
is maintained.
0 0
Eddie Ward complains that sales tax
is a “burden imposed on the workers —a
class tax —unjustly imposed on working
people,” though he has to admit that it
was first imposed by a “Labor” Govern-
ment for unemployment-relief in 1930.
Well, it was an even worse burden on the
workers then and an even worse class tax,
because it hit those who were really
working.
0, 0
Cahill’s argument in support of com-
pulsory unionism is that widows’ pensions
and family endowment were opposed by
anti-“ Labor” forces when first introduced,
but are now “accepted as part of Aus-
tralia’s life.” The analogy could hardly
be less apt. Pensions and endowment
are something given to the people, and
there is no compulsion to accept them;
compulsory unionism takes away a right
and forces its victims to pay a levy for
their loss of freedom.
0 0
Cain, introducing the Tatt’s Lottery
Bill in the Melbourne Parliament, said
the Government would devote all money
from the lottery to hospitals and private
and public mental institutions. That’s
exactly how State lotteries were intro-
duced in N.S.W., but it wasn’t long before
there was an amendment to put the cash
into Consolidated Revenue and give the
hospitals what they could get.
0 0
After making a lot of dust and splather
the Vic. and Queensland “Labor” Gov-
ernments settled for 14s. a bushel home-
price for wheat and presumably Federal
Minister for Commerce McEwen and the
Australian Wheat Board heads got their
first restful night for months, McEwefi,
who was deeply distressed that Australia
mightn’t get into the International Wheat
Agreement, which Britain has got out of,
now faces a doubtful prospect —Aus-
tralian growers could quite likely lose on
the I.W.A. quota and price unless the
coming harvest is a very good one.
0 0
N. S. Wales Hairdressers’ Union is
agitating for a sixpenny increase in the
price of haircuts, which would mean
3s. 9d. for men and 2s. 9d. for boys. They
complain that many of their members
are out of work. A three-and-ninepenny
haircut would put quite a lot more out of
work.
Scene: Westralian Parliament, a week
before Budget day, "Premier Hawke
having just introduced his bill for enter-
tainments-tax.
Sir Ross McLarty : It looks as though
there is more to come.
The Premier: I think the Leader of
the Opposition need have no fear as to
what is likely to come, because, if my
memory serves me aright—and it can be
very treacherous —the other extra charge
that is to come would not affect him
until after he has passed to Heaven.
McLarty: I tipped that one! I
thought that one would come!
Premier: That charge will be the
worry of those who live on after he has
left this earth.
McLarty : An increase in probate
duty! My forecast was fairly accurate.
• •
Jack Lang’s “Century,” reminding its
public that it was “first to pick McKell as
G.-G.” hands out a hot tip for the next
m. Q '
THE SPORT OF KINGS, 1953
occupant of New South Wales Govern-
ment House —J. I. Cahill. Ugh!
• •
According to the Melbourne “Herald”
the two-for-one electoral redistribution
plan will be completed by the end of this
month or early in November, and will
be considered by both Houses of the Vic-
torian Parliament before Christmas. The
suggested co-operation with the Federal
boundary-plotters has apparently gone by
the board —unless there’s been a gentle-
man’s agreement behind the scenes.
• •
Army Minister Francis has assured a
questioner that every “reasonable dis-
couragement” is given by the military
authorities to proposed marriages
between Australian servicemen and
Japanese girls. As more than 300 of
these unions have been recorded it might
be wise for the Army to try a policy of
“reasonable encouragement.”
• •
“Dick Turpin”: I feel it only fair both
to the Sane Democracy League and to
Ben Doig, Liberal candidate for Waver-
ley (B. 7/10/’53), to point out that the
S.D.L. is strictly non-political and that
although Doig is a former secretary Of
the league he resigned early in the year
when he first nominated for Waverley at
the general election.
0 0
Enteftainments-tax isn’t the only vacant
Federal paddock the Victorian “Labor”
Government has been quick to invade.
Cain’s land-tax goes as high as 7s. in the
£1 and begins on land valued at more
than £650. A decent housing allotment
costs more than that in Melbourne, and
the Cains now have to face “a State-wide
campaign to fight the tax.”
Lang has also come out with a warning
to “Labor” against the Cahill-Heffron
(or should it be Heffron-Cahill?) plan
for compulsory unionism. He sees it as
a grave risk “to the entire edifice of
trade-unionism” and doubts whether
the average worker will be any better
off:
The trade-unions may benefit in terms of
annual revenue. But will they be any better
off as effective industrial instruments?
There will be no incentive on the union
bureaucrat to do a good job for his mem-
bers. His dues will flow in whether he
fights or just goes to sleep.
The Big Fella also argues that compul-
sory unionism means Government control
of unions and that Fascism was based on
Government control of unions in which
membership was compulsory.
• •
September award of the monthly medal
for modesty went to Standish Michael
Keon, “Labor” M.H.R. for Yarra, who,
after describing an opponent as “a snivel-
nosed rat,” thought it necessary to add
“and I am a better Australian than he is.”
• •
In the Kahibah campaign “Labor’s”
biggest problem is how to press the claims
of one Arthur without associating him
with the other Arthur whom the party
expelled, It’s going to be complicated
by the fact that the current Arthur refuses
to be dissociated from the past Arthur.
• •
Hollway Liberals in Vic. Legislative
Council voted against the Government
last week with the result that Cain’s Long-
Service Leave bill was held over until this
week, much to the chagrin of “Labor”
members. There doesn’t seem to be much
significance in the move, other than a hint
to the Government that it can’t rely on
McLeod and Gartside all the time.
• •
On Friday the N. S. Wales Industrial
Commission will consider whether or not
to fall in line with the Federal Arbitra-
tion Court and suspend quarterly adjust-
ments of wages.
• •
Bate, M.H.R., told the Reps, that the
N.S.W. Government had spent £750,000
on its State coalmine at Oakdale, which
had so far gone down only 180 ft. If
that’s right, it must be the costliest hole
in N. S. Wales—except the tunnel for
the Eastern Suburbs railway.
• •
Mr. Mallam, the new “Labor” mem-
ber for Dulwich Hill in the Sydney Par-
liament, thinks tunnels should be dug at
pedestrian crossings to ease the flow of
traffic. Well, one was dug under College-
street at a cost of over £40,000 ; so far
about the only ones to use it seem to be
those who pinch the tiles from it
• •
When O’Carroll, a Vic. M.L.A., pro-
posed a poll-tax on motorists to create a
•m
fund to abolish level-crossings, A. M.
Derham, Royal Automobile Club presi-
dent, said that enough money was being
collected every year in petrol-tax for the
purpose. He’s right; annual petrol-tax
collections now run into more than £25
million.
• •
Cain is the latest Premier to be chal-
lenged to appoint a Public Accounts
Committee; Brigadier Tovell, one of the
Hollway Liberals, made the suggestion
during the Vic. Budget debate.
• •
If building activity is any guide to a
healthy economy the Commonwealth
Statistician’s latest report on housing
gives another blow to “Labor”-inspired
talk of a slump. In the June quarter this
year work was begun on 17,283 new
homes in Australia compared with 16,194
in the March quarter ; 15,280, December ;
and 15,700, September, 1952.
• •
Unemployment figures are still falling.
Holt was able to tell Parliament
recently that the number on unemploy-
ment-benefit had dropped in August for
the eighth month in succession. At the
beginning of this year the figure was
42,000. By August this was down to
22,000 and it fell by a further 2406
during the four weeks of August. In the
same four weeks the number registered
for employment dropped by 5384. Holt
wasn’t replying to a Dorothy Dixer; it
was “Labor” member Fitzgerald who
asked the question.
• •
Callide opencut coalmine will have a
direct rail-connection with Rockhampton
when a short spur-line that has been
under construction for two years is com-
pleted next month. Nine miles long, it
has cost haif-a-million.
• •
J. G. Beale (Lib.) told the Sydney
Parliament that £285 million could be
saved on the Snowy scheme by altering
the tunnel system and running a canal
from Narrandera, on the ’Bidgee, to the
Murray to give about 2 million acre-feet
of water. Far more important was his
statement that unless Melbourne and
Sydney were watched (and scotched)
they’d draw off all the power generated
by the Snowy and the Riverina and the
South Coast of N.S.W. would go without.
Beale also said the N.S.W. Government
should consider using atomic-power for
electricity-generation, but it would take
an atomic bomb to shake that same Gov-
ernment out of its lethargy.
• •
Work is to be stepped-up on the Tully
Falls (N.Q.) hydroelectric scheme. This
year’s Budget provides for an expenditure
of nearly £3 million compared with
£1,500,000 spent in 1952-53.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Mem”; Women drivers? One of my
acquaintance drove several thousand
miles without ever having tried to change
a wheel or park between two other cars.
It wasn’t till some months after she’d
sold the car, still unscratched and virgin
of accidents, that she was interested to
discover that the fan attached to the
engine doesn’t serve as a propeller for
moving the vehicle!
❖ ❖ <4
“Moonah”: Tiger started it at crib-
time: “I backs me a horse,” he starts,
“an’ it’s entered in two events. I takes
it each way, all up another one each way
in the othen race that the first one’s in
if he don’t start in the first one. Now —
the first one is scratched from the first
event and starts in the second one what
me second one’s in. Me first one wins
and me second one comes second. Now,
I had ’em both each way, the first one
all-up the second. How much do I
collect?” The mob were still arguing
about it when the knock-off whistle blew.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: My entry into the
Army was greatly facilitated by n.c.o.s
of the previous war, who helped us fill
in the first forms. The sergeant and I
were getting on very well with my looks,
color, height, etc., but crossed swords
over my eyes. “Now what have you put
for your eyes?” said he. “Green,” I
replied. He looked pained and shocked.
“Blimey, you can’t put that ; rub that
out and let me see.” Grasping me by
the shoulders he pivoted me around,
facing the light, and gazed not too soul-
fully into my optics. “They’re ’azel,
that’s what they are; you write down
’azel!” I did as I was bid, and ’azel
they were for the duration. I became
so used to the idea that I never think of
them as green now.
❖ ❖
“Bo”; There was much to be said for
the sport of roller-skating, now suffering
a serious decline: the din, the dust, the
joyous anticipation of later extracting an
inch-long splinter from the least muscu-
lar portion of the anatomy, the hazard
of coming -down among a mob to bury
your face in a forest of thrashing wheels.
And to the mug those four-wheeled
horrors were even more beyond control
than the quarter-inch sliver of steel on
which the ice-skater has to maintain
equilibrium. My last and most joyful
memory of such uncontrollability was at
our suburban rink, with a woman waving
her arms wildly as she made straight for a
closed door marked “Gents.” Just as a
collision seemed inevitable a gent,
emerged .and leaped aside as the skater
sailed straight through. Her face was
rather red as she emerged to much cheer-
ing, but that could have been due to her
exertions.
❖ *i*
“O. K. Lee”: Mention by “Eve” (B.
30/9/’53) of orchids on sale at a chain-
store recalls a visit made to Torres Straits
“I do hope everyone has remembered to bring her French grammar.”
some forty years ago by a seemingly
eccentric German. The visitor was, on
the evidence of the trim ocean-going
yacht in which he travelled, wealthy
enough to indulge his hobby, which he
said was marine biological research. He
was popular among Thursday Islanders,
who were not sorry when the good fellow
just managed to slip away a few days
before the Kaiser’s war broke. In the
early ’thirties the wealthy eccentric was
recognised when he returned to spend a
few days as a tourist in Thursday Island.
To a select few he whispered that, on his
previous visit, his publicised marine bio-
logical research hobby had been eyewash
to conceal his real mission, which was
the surreptitious loading to capacity of
his specially fitted-out yacht with the
rarest specimens of orchid life on West
Island, which was, and is, a rigorously
guarded preserve for such aristocratic
" Genuine Persian, madam—a mirage with each one.”
herbage. According to his story the “mad
scientist” netted about £3OOO by the sale
of his hijacked cargo.
* * ☆
“Harry R.”: Captain Cook’s old sail-
maker who was the only one of the crew
to escape sickness at Batavia (B. 23/9/’53)
did not last long after leaving Java.
Captain Cook records; “We now made
the best of our way for the Cape of
Good Hope, but the seeds of disease
which we had received at Batavia began
to appear with the most threatening
symptoms in dysenteries and slow-
fevers.” Among the 23 members of the
crew who died during the six weeks fol-
lowing the departure of the Endeavour
from Batavia were listed “Our jolly old
sailmaker and his assistant.” The cause
of the old boy’s death is not stated.
Perhaps the liquor was giving out, neces-
sitating a cut in the rum ration, with
disastrous results for our jolly old sail-
maker. Or maybe the lifelong applica-
tion of hot, rebellious liquors to his
bloodstream engendered a slow and in-
sidious form of poisoning which finally
cut him off prematurely; he was aged
“between 70 and 80.”
* * ❖
“Peter R.”: Back in 1908 there was a
motor-reliability trial that left the recent
much-publicised Redex affair in the
shade. The route started in New York,
ran across America (whose country roads
were worse then than ours are now) and
up the Pacific seaboard to Alaska. Then
the contestants had to get across the
frozen Bering Straits to Siberia, motor
the whole length of Russia into Europe
and finish in Paris. Some of the
entrants are alleged to have cheated by
spreading makeshift sails across the
Siberian stretches. This race was won
by a German crew with a Protos car, and
even with the tremendous improvement
in motors it would still seem a magnifi-
cent achievement today. But the hardest
part now would be to get through the
Iron Curtain.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bret Lawson”: My friend and I, both
Australian-born, believed we resembled
the legendary “typical Australian.” It
seems we were wrong. We were walking
down a city lane when, coming towards
us, we saw an old fellow in the tattered
garb, and with all the trappings, of the
swaggie. When he passed he looked our
way and muttered “Bloody Balts!
Shouldn’t be allowed in the country! ”
❖ ❖ *:♦
“Proofreader”: I read lately that
editors, with all the reading they do,
are naturally very fast readers. But does
it follow? Does constant reading really
increase one’s reading-pace? I do my
share, in my job and outside; I was
a slow reader, and still am. And I know
other voracious readers who never,
according to themselves, get out of the
snail’s-pace class. Yet others who seldom
read have amazed me by how quickly
they’ve claimed to have disposed of such
and-such a book. I once decided to try to
quicken my reading, and carried out some
reading exercises prescribed by those
books designed to promote “faster read-
ing.” I went along swimmingly, reading
the exercises faster and faster. But I
found there was one catch —if I wanted
to know what I was reading about, I
always had to re-read the exercise at my
pre-training snail’s pace.
i* ❖ ❖
“Benbow”: Doubting reference to the
smiles of harem wives (B. 23/9/’53)
leaves me cold. In Macassar in ’46 I
saw a citizen taking an evening stroll
with a detachment of kids and three
wives. The youngest clung affectionately
to his arm and the other two herded the
offspring along, but nobody showed any
unhappiness whatever. »
“P.0.M.C.”: My guess is that car-
toonists depict harem wives as smiling
and happy for the very good reason that
cartoonists’ wives are smiling and happy
—they’ve got to be, because cartoonists
have the ability and opportunity to crys-
tallise the frailties of wives in a salutary
and permanent form. Women will defy
anything except the humiliation of being
made recognisable butts for jokes.
£♦
“Flickers”: Authenticity in films (B.
9/9/’53)? Despite costly research de-
partments anachronisms occur, such as
the wristwatch on a Roman soldier in
“The Sign of the Cross,” or zip-fasteners
in “The Adventures of Robin Hood.” A
worse fault is distortion of fact. The
statue of Ferdinand de Lesseps at the
entrance to Port Said is that of a portly
gentleman, all of 64 years when the
Canal was finished. Yet I have memories
of an athletic young Tyrone Power
braving sandstorms and divers distrac-
tions as the intrepid Canal-builder of an
epic titled “Suez.” Hollywood’s efforts
to film history have been summed in the
verse:—
Cecil B. De Mille,
Much against his will,
Was persuaded to leave Moses
Out of the Wars of the Roses.
♦J* *l* ❖
“Smithy”: Dr. Giblin’s beautiful old
home isn’t the only historic building in
Hobart to fall under the wrecker’s
hammer: the old Rising Sun Inn has
almost gone in order that Criterion-street
can .be widened. It isn’t likely that many
old-’uns will gather to mourn its passing
or reminisce on the pots they sank there;
the inn was delicensed in 1859.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sack”: We were introduced to each
other by a mutual friend, who left the
train at the next stop. My new acquaint-
ance proved to be an unusual conversa-
tionalist ; he believed in psychology—
direct from the book. “Some people
never remember names,” he said. “That
is a grave mistake. Memorise a person’s
name and call him by it the next time
you meet, and you’ve made a friend.
You’ve flattered his ego. Subconsciously
he reflects that you have been so much
impressed by his personality that his
name has stuck in your memory.” There
was a lot more along the same lines.
Yesterday I saw him again—and dodged
him. Bored by his pet subject? No ;
but blowed if I could conjure up a clue
to what his name was.
♦> ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Jackstay”: The mate, on the port-
side coaming of the hatch, was super-
vising the unloading of the last of the
cargo from about 50ft. below. Imme-
diately beneath, a sozzled mariner en-
tered the ’tween-decks, where he swooped
in a great arc and teetered on the edge
until even the mpst hardened wharfies
came out of their working-trance and
began to mutter about asking for “fright-
money.” The mate went below, led the
disturber away and returned to the coam-
ing. There, a few minutes later, appeared
the alcoholic acrobat, as full of remorse
as he was of beer, plaiting his legs, stumb-
ling over wires and loudly voicing his
regret at causing trouble as he swayed
along the narrow walkway to apologise —
with an extra 20ft. to fall this time. For
five minutes all hands watched in agony
while he wrung the mate’s hand and the
pair of them swayed above the drop ;
then he took a fond farewell of his
rescuer and, declining all invitations to
return via the deck, lurched back the
way he had come. Half an hour later
he sneaked ashore for a few more pots,
failed completely to cope with the gyra-
tions of the footpath and fell flat on his
face in the gutter.
MISS J.P.
“ ‘Why on earth do you want to be a J.P.?’
Judge Amsberg asked Miss Lenore Kendall, 21,
a teacher at Jesmond Public School, when swear-
ing her in as N. S. Wales’s youngest woman
Justice of the Peace. Her father is a committee-
member of the northern N. S. Wales Federa-
tion of Justices of the Peace.”
Some people say, “It isn’t done !
Why should a girl of twenty-one
Have exercised her right to be
Embalmed, a premature J.P. ?”
Of course, her reason’s to be had:
“I merely want to be like Dad.”
But no one really wise believes
The reason that a woman gives.
The situation, at a glance.
Is full of pomp and circumstance,
And suitors of great wealth and fitness
Queueing-up with deeds to witness;
And one who swears “I do” may still
Be glad to say, some day, “I wi11”...
But the best reason to be found
Is that she wants to gad around:
You ask around the building, or
You knock on some suburban door:
“Yes, he’s a Justice of the Peace,
But staying with his married niece”;
Or, “No, I’m sorry; he’s away;
He left last week on holiday”
Next month, you try to knock one up;
He’ll be in Melbourne for the Cup . . .
However, looking at her picture
Inclines the critics less to stricture:
We feel, were we —not Justice — blind.
She’d not disturb our Peace of mind.
N.S.W,
SWILLIAM.


“Matey”: The girls in the tram didn’t
seem to think much of the lady they
were discussing, but after one lass had
spoken up there just wasn’t anything left
to say on the subject. “That girl?” she
said fiercely. “Do you know what she
was before she came to work with us?
She was a test-pilot in a broom-factory.”
& ❖ ❖
“McKim”: Another instance of the
unconscious use of chlorophyll (B.
23/9/’53). Having listened for weeks to
a friend bragging about his garden I
spent a Sunday afternoon looking it over.
The plot at the front of the house was
his piece de resistance —neat, thickly-
grassed lawns, clean paths and an endless
variety of choice shrubs and roses.' But
what hit me in the eye was an untidy,
straggling bed of parsley right at the
front gate. He explained. “When I stop
to have a few grogs on the way home
I grab a chew of parsley at the gate and
then I’m not sticking my neck out when
I tell the wife I’ve been working back.”
'
* + v v
“Aestur”: That smart bloke who re-
paired the gutter with newspaper and
paint (B. 23/9/’53) reminded me of
Charlie. He’d just run a couple of hun-
dred feet of lead-covered wire when the
foreman said “This is no good, I want
those saddles screwed, on, not tacked.”
Charlie protested. “But they’ll never come
loose in that hardwood. It’d be a hell of
a job to drive screws.” The boss was
adamant; it had to be screws. When he a
gone Charlie sat for a while thinking
hard. Then he slapped his leg, and
grinned. Twenty minutes later he called
me to have a look. I gaped; the tacks
had all been replaced by screws. How
... what . . .?” Charlie grinned. He
wet a finger and rubbed the head of the
screw—which straightway became a tack.
Charlie laughed at my face, then pulled
out his pencil and put the “slot” back
again.
** *** **
“Morris the Tinker”: The lonian
Islands, scene of the recent earthquake.
were f or a time a British protectorate.
xhey had fallen into the hands of France
as part D f the spoils of Napoleon’s ex-
tinction of the Venetian Republic, and at
the end 0 f t he Napoleonic Wars they
were p i aced under British protection. The
government was vested in a Senate of
s j x members and an assembly of 40, but
the rea t ru i er was the British High Com-
missioner. Sir Thomas Maitland—nick-
named King Tom, Under British rule
there was considerable educational and;
economic advancement, and Corfu be-
came an important naval base, but after
the Greeks won'their independence from
Turkey there was a strong movement for
union with Greece. Britain at first re-
sisted t his but after the abdication of
the first King of the Hellenes, Otho of
Bavaria, the British Government inti-
mated that if the Greeks chose Prince
William George of Denmark as their
king the | slands wou ld be ceded to
Greece T h e hint was taken, and in 1864
the group became Greek.
❖ ❖ *
half-dosed “Fino”; A King's Cross restaurant
now h ,as,on its menu; “Dishes Con-
tmentale.
“Muskeen”: Seven generations to
make a piper (B. 16/9/’53)? Of the
hereditary clan pipers, the best known
were the MacCrimmons, pipers to the
Macleods of Dunvegan. For years
MacCrimmons had a college a . r §
m Skye for the study of pipe-musi ,
students devoted six to 12 years to
acquire proficiency,
❖ *
“Chevroford”: I wouldn’t deny that
this road-safety propaganda has some
effect, but I doubt if it is as much as
people think. I learnt for the first time
from a friendly Melbourne policeman
that I had been carrying a bit of it round
in my pocket for 20 years, yet until he
pointed it out I had never consciously
been aware of it. In the top left-hand
corner of my driver’s licence is a sketch
in horrifying detail of a level-crossing
smash, with the inscription “Cross Cross-
ings Cautiously.”
■*- *
“Buster”: That “When-did-you-arrive-
here?” game (B. 30/9/’53) is not exclu-
sive to New Australians. It had me
baffled right through four years of war-
service. On attaining the rank of air-
craftsman 2nd class and commencing
training on 28 course, I realised that
there was little hope of redemption
as I wasn’t even on 20 course,
names of whose members were men-
tioned with respect. Private hopes
coincided with luck to land me next at
elementary-flying school with the status
of leading-aircraftsman. The birdmen
who left there assured me that I was
clueless and this was confirmed by my
instructor, who had been on 15 course,
Eventually I swaggered away from the
fragile Tiger Moth to that defender of
the skies the Wirraway. Hints of hyphen-
ated-cluelessness achieved the proportions
of a bone-pointing rite when uttered by
a veteran instructor who had been on
11 course. Operational training and pro-
gress to New Guinea were slow, but
finally I joined my first squadron ; the
proudest day in the life of a fighter-pilot,
"Which one of youse blokes is a New Australian?"
In the sweltering mosquito-infested tin-
hut that was the mess I breasted the bar
and was introduced to my flight-com-
mander, “Meet So-and-So,” they said.
“He was on 2 course.” 1 never really
recovered, and in the years that followed,
although prompted by morbid curiosity,
could never quite pluck up enough
courage to locate the Highest of All, a
type who might have been on 1 course.
* *
“Pat”: The young man was a fully
qualified medico, but, on the grounds that
private practice entailed too much respon-
sibility and too uncertain hours, he took
a routine job in the Government service.
Acquiring a nice-looking sedan car, he
treated us to an account of how the
happy bargain had been struck. “It’s
second-hand, but good as new. In per-
fect running order. And I beat him
down sixty-quid on the price. What’s
more he’s a mechanical engineer, and
any time things go wrong he’s going to
come in and overhaul it for me. Of
course he gets his side of the bargain.
Any time he doesn’t feel too hot I’ve
agreed to check him over for free.”
❖
“Millswyn”: “Ron J.’s” remarks con-
cerning the sleeping telegraphists (B.
23/ 9/ ’53) bring to mind a tip I received
from a Government radio-engineer back
in 1921. He claimed that the best way
for a telegraph student to “firm up” his
Morse-code was to tune-in and then
go to sleep with the earphones on. By
doing this an imperfect knowledge of dit-
da-dit became 100 per cent, overnight,
♦> ❖
“Ron J.”: The blonde in the train had
good looks and figure and, decked out
for a ball, had all the adornment; what
spoilt everything was her hideous posture.
Slumped low down on the seat so that
she could stretch but and rest her feet
on the opposite seat, she looked like a
home-going drunk. Perhaps that is why
the ticket-examiner was a bit gruff. “Feet
should be on the floor, madam; not on
the seat. That is an offence.” “Is it?”
Madam retorted sharply. “And if I trail
my gown in that heap of cigarette-butts,
dead matches, fruit-peelings and food-
scraps on the floor it will be an offence,
too. An offence to me; my dress will
be ruined and that’ll mean a bill for
someone. Do I listen to you and ask
the Railways for twenty-five pounds for
a new frock? It’s up to you.” It was
too much for the ticket-examiner; he
passed on his way.
❖ ❖
“Sparks”: When they discovered that
Jock was too old for active service he
elected to take his discharge in Darwin/
where our unit was on garrison duty.
Jock covered his disappointment with
pungent criticism of the Army, from the
General Staff down to the pioneer
platoon, as he received his issue of civvies
a white suit, white hat, white shut an
white socks. He hung round the town
for a while and then disappeared. we
often wondered about him as we ticke
off the fortnightly visits of the ship which
would eventually take us to Brisbane,
The great day came, and we watched
happily as the ropes were cast off and
the ship edged away from the whari.
Then from the depths of the stokehol
came an angry roar in a brogue which
dripped with heather, bagpipes and spor-
rans, and which could belong only to
Jock. We investigated, and there he was
locked in combat with a fellow-stoker.
and his white suit, already grimed from
weeks of work in the bunkers, gathering
more grime as he rolled on the stokehold-
floor in the throes of the struggle.
“Forrester”: Lieutenant John Oxley,
who was acting-lieutenant-commander of
the ex-Spanish ship Estramina when she
was ordered to take Government stores
to Hobart Town and Port Dalrymple in
ttie early days of last century, attributed
as one of the causes of the flourishing
profession of bushranging the good prices
being offered for kangaroo-meat! When
supplies of salt-beef ran low in Hobart
the Government fried to ease the situa-
tion by accepting kangaroo-meat into the
stores for issue. Assigned laborers who
might have been employed in tilling the
ground were sent kangaroo-hunting by
their employers, who found it more
beneficial to get a shilling a pound for
the flesh than to wait until the corn-
harvest ripened. Some of the hunters
took to the woods and started on a
plundering career, with little chance of
being apprehended, developing into what
Oxley called “desperate and dangerous
bandits.” His remedy for part-prevention
of further additions to the bushranging
outfits was for the full supply of “every
species of provision” until the settlements
became independent. If he were about
today Oxley might have something to say
concerning other forms of kangaroo-meat
banditry. In my home-town kangaroo-
meat is being sold at half-a-crown a
pound.
& & *
“Ceg”; One field-ambulance unit
which sailed from Australia in World
War I was given among its equipment a
dental outfit, complete with folding
dental-chair, although “establishment”
made no provision for a dentist. On the
troopship cases requiring treatment
cropped up, so the equipment was un-
packed, but the m.o’s showed no inclina-
tion to use it. Then the C.O. inquired
whether there were any dentists among
the mob; there were three —all perfectly
good privates. One voluntered for the
job as a welcome change from stables
and other chores. We had over a thousand
men on board, so he was kept busy. The
possibility of some promotion in rank
was mentioned, but parade followed
parade and nothing was read out in
orders to give the dental bloke more
than his six-bob a day. However, just
before Gallipoli he was made a tempor-
ary sergeant. He had been reckoning on
a commission and was rather sore. On
the Peninsula came his opportunity. The
C.O. developed agonising toothache,
and, dashing round to the dental dug-
out, flopped into the chair. The ser-
geant selected a burr, fitted it, and then
casually commenced pedalling the drill.
He gave it a few preliminary whirrs and
then innocently inquired: “Any news
of that commission of mine. Colonel?”
The result was a foregone conclusion.
He had two pips up in no time.
WOULDN’T IT?
With the air chockful of tripe —
Parliamentary debate,
A band of niggers bashing out their
jive-o ;
Reminiscence overripe,
Songs the yaw pers mutilate,
And commentators churning out
their gyvo —
You may skip for several nights
Radio-listening. Comes at last
A worth-while play, your interest
reviving.
You anticipate delights ;
Settle back. They give the cast.
The doorbell rings. It’s visitors
arriving !
You’ve arranged — oh, foolishly !
To go picnicking with friends.
Getting an early start on Sunday
morning.
Overlooking (as you see
When too late) just what impends.
For the party you’ll be at goes on
till dawning.
So you voice a fervent prayer
’Twill be raining cats and dogs
A few hours hence, so you may go
on snoozing.
But your prayer becomes a swear,
You will hear no joyous frogs.
The day’s a scorcher. No, it’s not
amusing.
No long-shot chance you’ll land
When you give the mokes a fly.
In other spheres, though, it is not
beyond you.
Fearing wifely reprimand
Homing late, and stepping high.
To quietude and caution you
respond. You
Every obstacle may mark,
Woozily negotiate.
And never into half-closed door go
head-on.
Thats the time, though, in the dark
Silence you’ll annihilate —
The fummy’s tail unerringly you’ll
tread on.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Jack Sutton Mesley, being a four-
ringed naval captain, has, naturally,
hurled a few high-velocity bricks, tor-
pedoes and depth-charges in his time.
Seen, also, a few of the first two
pleasantries come his way—when his
address, and their destination, was cruiser
Canberra at Savo Island. But it’s doubt-
ful if he ever dreamed he’d be detailed for
the job he has to do on October 24 —
the Trafalgar Day shivoo, which the
Navy seems to be making bigger and
better each year. Then Mesley, in his
capacity as skipper of Battle-class
destroyer Anzac, will load and fire his
uncannily accurate sub.-destroying Squid
depth-charge thrower, as well as 21 in,
torpedoes —in Sydney harbor! For the
benefit of boat-owners, harborside flat-
dwellers and others who may be allergic
to h.-e. exploding in the front-yard, the
depth-charges will be dummies and the
torpedoes will have stout lengths of hemp
on their noses. Even so, Mesley’s effort
—charges hurtling forrard right over the
bridge and a tonnage of tin-fish leaping
from their tubes—will be something to
see.
Author Colin Simpson has followed
up his Adam in Ochre with Adam with
Arrows, an account of the New Guinea
interior, arresting in its strangeness. For
some years Simpson has been a writer of
documentary features for the A.B.C. His
“Australian Walkabout” programme has
taken him around the continent and
further afield. One of his feats was to
walk nearly 200 miles in the North
Borneo jungle retracing the Death March
SIMPSON, A.B.C.
track of the Eighth Division. He has
had a close-up view of the uncontrolled
areas of New Guinea, of Central
Australia and Torres Strait; has been
around America (where he covered
the first U.N. conference at San
Francisco) and in Fiji for the first South
Pacific conference of native people.
Twentieth-Century Fox engaged him as
script-adviser when they filmed “Kanga-
roo” in S. Australia. With Flying-
Officer Beau Sheil he wrote a biography
of Sir Charles Kingsford Smith called
Ccesar of the Skies. He has also written
a novel, Come Away, Pearler, and when
he was 22 in 1931 he, Kenneth Slessor
and Harley Matthews brought out a
book of verse called Trio. His next
book, Adam in Plumes, which is in
preparation, will deal with the Central
Highlands, the Sepik River and other
parts of New Guinea.
For the past six years Francis Thomas
Meehan held down one of the biggest
jobs in Australian industry—chairman of
Imperial Chemical Industries. A few
months back he turned it over to Ken-
neth Begg. Now Meehan has been given
the presidency of the Royal Australian
Chemical Institute. Mixed up with
chemicals pretty well all his life, Meehan
was trained as a chemist at Liverpool
University (Eng.), then as a gunner of
Royal Artillery for Wilhelm’s war. He
got into 1.C.1. in London in 1930, took
charge of a chemical firm in Finland, got
out after the Russians got in, and since
1942 has been in Melbourne. He still
holds a directorship of 1.C.1.
Read his final proofs, George V. Sid-
man, one of the best-known country
newspaper proprietors in N.S.W. In 1942
president of the Country Press Associa-
tion, he started over 50 years ago as a
printer’s devil on the Camden “News,”
and right to the end kept his first week’s
screw —two-and-sixpence. A determined
youth, he travelled to the Technical Col-
lege in Sydney two nights a week, and,
as his train stopped at Campbelltown,
had to walk about eight miles home. His
father owned the paper, and George
partnered him after serving his time.
There was ink in his blood, his grand-
father having come to Australia from
journalistic work in England and France
to become manager of the “Evening
News” group. George stayed at Camden
to nurse the growing local paper, return-
ing to the Tech, for further instruction
when the first lino, machine arrived. He
found time to attend 52 consecutive con-
ferences of the C.P.A. and for executive
work on numerous local organisations,
among them the Camden Show Society.
Seventy-four at the end.
From operations-manager in Mel-
bourne to Queensland manager for
C.0.R., S. G. Mitchell. With the firm
26 years, Mitchell left it temporarily for
work in the south-west Pacific, from
which he emerged lieutenant-colonel.
Following the parental path, David Ker
Stout has been chosen N.S.W. Rhodes
Scholar for 1954. Son of Professor Stout,
holder of the Chair of Moral and Poli-
tical Philosophy at Sydney University (he
also son of a professor), the 21-year-old
Rhodes man took his B.A. with first-class
honors in English last year, and at Oxford
intends to make economics his specialit)y.
Representing his university at hockey
helped in the sporting side of the scholar-
ship. Sister Judith gathered a ballet
scholarship in 1948, and has had five years
overseas with the International Ballet
Company.
“Uramao”: Johannes C. Andersen, a
Dane who arrived in New Zealand as a
child with no knowledge of the English
language, now, at 80, is one of the
greatest authorities on New Zealand his-
tory and Maori folk-lore, language and
history generally. For years he was
director of the Turnbull Library in Wel-
lington, an institution on something of a
par with the Mitchell Library. An
accomplished poet, he recently forwarded
to the King of Denmark a volume of his
poems in English and two booklets of
Danish songs translated for the Anglo-
Danish Society, King Christian accepted
the gift with appreciation and stated that
the presents would find an honored place
in the Royal Library at Copenhagen.
A leading light in S. Australian medical
circles was extinguished by the passing,
at 64, of Edmund Britten Jones, knight in
the New Year honors list this year.
Rhodes Scholar in 1912, holder of
important executive posts in most of the
country’s medical organisations—presi-
dent of the State branch of the B.M.A.
in 1934-35 —Sir Edmund was particu-
larly interested in children, lectured on
their diseases at Adelaide University for
several years, and had been consulting
physician to the Adelaide Children’s
Hospital. He took time off to attend both
world wars, in the second gaining a
lieutenant-colonelcy with the A.A.M.C. in
the Middle East, He kept mind and body
healthy with cricket and football, playing
first-grade in the first, and representing his
State in the second. His son is a medico.
Back from a world walkabout, Torleiv
Hytten, Vice-Chancellor of Tasmania
University, earlier economic adviser to
the Bank of N. S. Wales. Overseas he
attended university conferences, as well
as piloting knight John Morris, Tas-
mania’s Chief Justice and University
Chancellor, to parts of Europe. There
he refreshed friendships of his bank days.
For all the vast changes, one factor at
least has remained splendidly constant in
seafaring—the steadfastness of ship’s
radio-operators. The history of their
calling is solidly studded with examples
of devotion to duty. Not so long ago
there was Telegraphist French, that gallant
youngster who for days barely moved
from his sweating box of a radio-office
aboard British sloop Amethyst during her
China travail. More recently there was
David Broadfoot, the radio-officer of the
passenger-ship Princess Victoria, which
sank off the Irish coast in January, taking
133 lives with her. Broadfoot remained
at his radio, tapping his key, calling for
assistance, till the sea claimed him. The
other day his gallantry was recognised
with posthumous award of the George
Medal.
The death of Jock McHale in Colling-
wood (Vic.) meant a great deal to the
Aussie Rules States of Victoria, Tas-
mania, South and West Australia, and
the districts of Riverina and Broken Hill.
The doyen of Aussie Rules coaches, his
name was symbolic throughout that vast
area for the game and the progress it has
made. Jock (real name James Francis)
played 262 games between 1902 and
1918 for the Magpies, was in four
premiership sides and was non-playing
coach from 1919 to 1950. Just before the
Victorian final this year he doggedly
insisted, as a committeeman, on a change
in wingmen, and that change gave
Collingwood the edge on Geelong across
the centre, for McHale to see his old
team premiers again just before he died.
He was the man who made the Magpies
follow their famous “machine” tactics, a
move which forced rivals to adopt
counters, and over the 30 years of Mc-
Hale’s coaching helped to make the old
game faster and cleverer.
Retiring after close on 40 years in the
British Army, General Sir Kenneth Craw-
ford in London let go a blast: “My ad-
vice to any would-be aggressor of Britain
is—keep out! ” No idle threat, Crawford
having been since 1949 in charge of muni-
tions for the Ministry of Supply, inti-
mately connected with all the new teeth
the old bulldog has been lately sprouting.
He won M.C. as an engineer in France
in the first war, and, as Deputy C.1.G.5.,
was on the right-hand of Montgomery in
the second, as well as being Director of
Britain’s Airborne Forces. He’s a trained
parachutist himself.
Alan Stredwick Lloyd was admitted
to the N.S.W. Bar in 1914, and to the
ranks of the A.I.F. not long afterwards.
He was back in uniform, brigadier’s, for
Hitler’s show, successively President of
Courts Martial, Eastern Command,
Deputy Judge Advocate - General and
Director of Legal Services on C.-in-C,’s
staff, one of his jobs to ensure that wrong-
doing Diggers were weighed-off lawfully.
Further connection with weighing-off, he
was appointed to the District Court Bench
in 1947. The other day, succeeding the
late Judge Markell, he became president
of the N.S.W. Prison Parole Board.
“M’lander”; John Borrie, a thoracic
surgeon of Dunedin (N.Z.), for the second
time in succession has been awarded the
Jacksonian Prize, one the highest honors
in surgery in the Empire. His first success,
in 1952, came from his winning the
Empire-wide annual competition with his
essay on cancer of the stomach. Borrie
was in a German p.-0.-w. camp for four
years, due to his voluntarily remaining
with wounded Enzed troops in Greece
after the main force had been evacuated,
Summed-up here by Prior* Stanley Vere
Toose, J., is one of the few to retire from
divorce-jurisdiction—his three predecessor
Judges in Divorce died in harness. S.V.
had had five years of it, and more than
enough, thank you—though the hardest
five years he’s ever worked haven’t
managed to belie his nickname,
Smiler. A man who laughs as if he
enjoys it, with a reputation for putting
witnesses at their ease, he is an Old
Fortian and Sydney ’Varsity product
(Arts 1908, Law 1912); got his grounding
in divorce work as a barrister before be-
coming judge in it; owns 3500 acres on
the Macleay River (N.S.W.), on which he
runs horses, cattle and rabbits; presided
TOOSE, J.
over the Roseville Golf Club for 15 years
from 1928; has a barrister son, Paul,
secretary of the N.S.W. Bar Council
and sometime major in New Guinea’s
anti-aircraft defences; is a voracious
reader of religious subjects; has four
children, all happily married; and takes
with him into retirement two vivid im-
pressions—not enough judges and not
enough room for them if there were, and
the astonishing emancipation of women
over the past 50 years.
Herewith the Rev. Frank William
Boreham, D.D., who at 84 can still draw
crowded houses to the Baptist fane in
Collins-street, Melbourne, with the Doric
portal. Who’s Who lists him as an
author, with some reason. Although
unknown to the pagan reading public he
has probably been Australia’s most
prolific writer of best-sellers. Here are
some of the titles of his score or more
BOREHAM, D.D.
publications: Mountains in the Mist,
Mushrooms on the Moor, The Silver
Shadow, Shadows on the Wall, A Tuft of
Comet’s Haiti The Nest of Spears and
The Three Halfmoons. The resemblance
to mjystery and crime-detection novels
isn’t extended to the contents. A prolific
preacher as well as writer, he has been
on many tours of England, Canada and
the U.S., and has written his auto-
biography in addition. He has served in
the vineyard in England, Tasmania, New
Zealand and various Australian country
centres and never misses a game of
cricket. He was amused when The
Bulletin once referred to his name as an
“unfortunate one for a preacher.” Born
at Tunbridge Wells, England,
Into the Silence:
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 75, H. W. L.
Digby, journalist, sportsman and founder ot
Digby’s commercial school. Prior to leaving
the “Press” in the Flat City he was chief-
reporter, and held the? Australian and N.Z.
record of 220 words per minute at shorthand.
Captain in the Kaiser’s war with the Ist
Canterbury Regiment.
In London, at 67, Vice-Admiral Gordon
Campbell, who, with three D.S.O.’s to his credit
before he got his V.C., was the personification
of the peculiar attributes necessary to be suc-
cessful in small, independent command. His
was a cold, nerveless courage, exercised to the
full when in command of the Q-boats which,
disguised as harmless trawlers, drew unsuspect-
ing U-boats to the surface and on to their
hidden guns, Though his name is indelibly
associated with those tiny “mystery ships,
Campbell commanded a battle-cruiser before
he retired in 1928. Once ashore, he produced
a dozen books, all about the sea.
In Dunedin (N.Z.), at 66, Captain F. G.
MacDonald, one-time Otago harbormaster.
Born in Sydney, at 14 he joined the Loch
Line windjammers trading between Australia
and U.K. ports. After four years of that he
had nine years of barques on the N.Z. coast-
He was with the N.Z. Rifle Brigade in War I.
In Perth, at 73, James Ward Hughes, retired
shipmaster, foundation- and life-member of the
W.A. branch of the Master Mariners’ Associa-
tion and the only licensed compass-adjuster in
Westralia. Known for years in the north-west
coastal trade, he skippered both the old and
the present Gorgon and the Centaur. In War
II he was compass-adjuster for the Navy.
At McKinlay (Q.), after an extensive job
up beyond the Leichhardt River in the Gulf
country, Keith Wade Brown, surveyor, for
many years with the Queensland Lands Depart-
ment and widely known in the State’s outback-
Member of a pioneer pastoral family (his
father the late Nugent Wade Brown, formerly
of Ban Ban, Gayndah), K.W.B. was an artillery-
man in France in War I and has a son a lieu-
tenant in the R.A.N.
In Melbourne, at 60, James Leslie Menzies,
brother of the Prime Minister. Old Digger,
over 40 years in the Commonwealth public
service, he was a one-time secretary to Billy
Hughes, and had long experience of trade-
commissioning, both in the U.S. and in New
Zealand. For ‘six years from 1938 acting-
Tn.de Commissioner in N.Z., at the end he was
chief administrative officer of the Department
of Commerce and Agriculture.
In Perth, at 60, Norman Bridson Robinson,
Old Digger and lawyer, a recognised authority
on Westralian land laws. Bom and educated
in S.A., he served his articles in Perth, and
was admitted to practice in 1916. He was
severely wounded in France with the 28th
Battalion, A.I.F.
At Flemington (Vic.), Henry Cahill, for years
surgeon to the V.R.C. and the Moonee Valley
Racing Club. His three sons and daughter are
all connected with medicine.
In London, at 67, Lord Strabolgi, who visited
Australia in 1939. He was Lt.-Commander
Ken worthy, R.N., in the days when he was
Labor member for Central Hull in the British
Commons. The title which put him in the
Lords dates from 1318. After being in abey-
ance for a century or so, the claim of Lord
Strabolgi’s father to assume it was admitted
in 1916. A destroyer captain in War I, Home
Guard lieutenant and Opposition Chief Whip
in the Lords in War 11, Strabolgi produced over
a dozen books, ranging from economics and
the sea to a documentary on the conquest of
Italy.


EMPLOYMENT
AGENCY/
fLERSE EbS
DOMESTIC
HiLf &?■
bSs*
% &T i couison'r ?oss&o/
A STRANOt WOMAM i/(
mv house usi ms stats/
A WOMAN’S WORK...


ABORIGINALITIES
“Laetitia”; At sound of a tremendous
booming roar the populace of Mulgaville
rushed to investigate, and found that Bill
Watson, after a hectic few hours at the
Saleyards Hotel, had failed to negotiate
the corner in his utility and had finished
upside-down in the 40ft.-high pyramid
of empty kero.-tins which occupied the
vacant allotment next to the garage. It
took a few minutes before the vehicle
could be lifted, by which time the town’s
doctor had arrived. Bill was conscious
enough to complain (in shocking terms) of
the dilatoriness of his rescuers, and, on
getting to his feet, to swing a hefty right-
hook which connected with the doc., who
promptly responded to this base expres-
sion of gratitude with an uppercut which
precipitated Bill into the unconsciousness
which the accident had failed to accom-
plish. After that the doc. set about bring-
ing the reveller to. Then the populace
went back to the pub to rejoice that there
is generally something happening in
Mulgaville on a Saturday afternoon.
♦ * * •
“Kelms”; The winner of this year’s
pigeon-race from Zanthus to Perth did
the 462 miles in 7| hours, clipping three-
quarters of an hour off the previous
record. That gives it an average speed
of 1743 yards a minute, or just on 60
“Hi! Plurry ho! Everybody.”
miles an hour, if it kept a straight course
throughout the race. No allowance is
made for deviations to avoid enemies, but
some credit is given to possible following
winds. The speed suggests that to shake
off a pursuer the winning pigeon could
touch around 100 m.p.h. over short
bursts.
* * * *
“A.F.L.”: The boss of our selection
has made himself au fait with quite a
number of feminine fripperies, but, just
to make certain, the women are called
to the office every month to go over the
accounts from the city emporiums to
assist in decoding the difficult ones. To
his request to be informed what “these
two pairs of jolly-mollys are” he is told
they’re a sort of glove. Then he gets
down to sloppy Joes, shruggettes, beau-
catchers, windcheaters, batwings and all
the other ills that wool is heir to. We
explain them all away. “Well, that’s the
end of the rag section,” he says. “Now
we get to the wood-heap.” “What’s this,
‘One Ax. £7 19s. 6d.?’ ” “That’s the new
hearth-rug.” “But this here, ‘One Hickory
£4 19s. 6d.’! Gripes, I’m not paying that
for any blasted axe-handle,” he roars.
Then the gentle news is broken to him
that it’s a foundation-garment, and he
subsides, gibbering.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“R.H.G.”: “C.A.L.’s” fencing con-
tractor (B, 16/9/’53) certainly set himself
a tough job to run a sight-line through
five miles of bush, no matter how flat
the land. One of the hardest things in
surveying is to run an ordinary straight
line. With the theodolite, this is done
in fairly long jumps, depending on visi-
bility, by lining in sharp-pointed waddies
and plumbing down for instrument spots,
on which the instrument is set up, back-
sighted on the preceding waddy (which
has been plumbed up from the last i/s)
and the telescope transitted to continue
the line. With the greatest of care, a
very long line of waddies will reveal a
slight “woof” brought about by minute
errors, refraction, or shimmer. Elaborate
calculations for the curvature of the
earth’s surface become necessary over big
distances, and, in fact, any straight line
on the earth’s surface must of necessity
be curved. Long traverse lines are
checked by astronomical methods. Sight-
lines are subject to all sorts of errors,
some cumulative and some self-balancing,
but mostly cumulative. To sight a line
by eye over five miles merely on the
target of a patch of light would result
in anything up to 100 ft. of error. With
any rising ground to get over, the line-
runner would be lucky if he got within
100yds, This is not to say that sight-
lines aren’t used —they are very handy
for checking plotting, but with a sight
started off with the instrument, dead-
right, I have known them to finish up
10ft. off within a mile, when afterwards
checked. Back-sighting by eye can be
very deceptive.
* ♦ * *
“Villefair”: At a pleasure-ground in
the Parramatta (N.S.W.) district our
works’ picnic was in full swing, with
the competitors lining up for the three-
legged race. The gun cracked and the
field was away. An apprentice and his
girl had established a good lead when
from behind came a dark horse, respond-
ing nobly to an encouraging whistle from
the tape-end and sustaining the cracking
pace to win handsomely. It was an
extremely well-received victory, with the
facetious protest promptly disallowed and
the three-legged dog’s win confirmed by
the stewards. Yes, as a member of the
council pointed out recently, a compound
fracture of a canine’s leg often compels
the dog’s master to make a grim deci-
sion—amputation or painless death.
Judging by the exuberance of that joyful
little tripehound a dog’s owner could
make the same decision that he would
make if the patient were a human, and
have no fear that in trying to be kind
he was being cruel.
, 0 ,
“Bass”: One of the best efforts ever
put up by camels in Australia was that
of the ones which brought David Lind-
say’s party into Frazer Range the year
"No, it's a beehive!”
Coolgardie was discovered. Coming
through from South Australia, they
headed for Victoria Springs, found them
dry, and pushed on a further 150 miles
to Frazer Range station, owned at that
time by the Dempsters. All told, they
were 27 days without water.
* * ♦ *
“Salmon Gums”: Those Kimberley
earth-tanks I mentioned (B. 23/9/’53)
aren’t scooped out of the earth like the
so-called dams of the W.A. wheatbelt and
sou’-west. Their walls are built around a
level patch of ground to a height of up
to 10ft.; and in that black-soil country,
after the first good soaking, they don’t
leak worth mentioning. A length of
piping is built into one wall to carry
the water into the troughs without
puddling it, and a good windmill on the
bore will keep the level up. There’s only
one snag: erosion of the walls after heavy
rain ; this is being overcome by planting
couch-grass, which is easily established.
Once the grass gets started it draws
moisture from the inside of the walls, and
there’s at least one assured patch of
greenery, however long the drought.
“Broadway”: According to
cables a waterspout in the
English channel “rose from the
sea and gushed to the base of
a cloud” about 800 ft. above the
sea. That’s probably the
impression it created,, but
actually it would have done
the reverse. Waterspouts com-
mence with a disturbance at
the base of a cloud, and the
funnel - shaped air - movement
whips and snakes as it descends
to the sea, finally sucking up
great quantities of water after
it makes contact. It has an
electrical origin, but the most
noticeable manifestation is the
turbulence of the air; and
although it originates in the
cloud the water of which it
becomes composed is always
salt, indicating that it’s drawn
from the sea. So, of course,
are the fish and water-weeds
that sometimes fall from it. It’s
essentially the same as a tornado,
and, altfiough there is still much
to be learnt about it, it’s assumed
that its centre is as nearly as possible a
vacuum. This belief is supported by the
fact that houses over which the centre
of a tornado have passed have had their
walls blown outwards and their roofs
dragged upwards. A fine-weather whirl-
wind passing over the ocean will occa-
sionally suck water up to a great height,
but that isn’t a true waterspout. And it
doesn’t make contact with a cloud.
“Narumee”: Parsley as a deodorant
(B. 23/9/’53) was used by the ancient
Greeks, who strewed it thickly over their
dead. They also looked upon it as
strength-giving, and it was said that
vigors’ crowns at the Isthmian games
were ma( j e of it. Eleanour Sinclair
Rhode, best-known herbalist of modem
times, ’quotes this delightful hint from
a 16th-century “Herball”: “If you would
have the leaves of the parsley grow
crisped, then before the sowing of them
stuffe a tennis ball with the seedes and
beat the same well against the ground
whereby the seedes may be a little
bruised. Or when the parcelye is well
come up go over the bed with a waighty
roller or else treade the same down under
thy feet.”
* * ♦ •
“Mat’s Mate”: Just out of Echuca,
among the irrigation canals on the Ton-
gala side, we came across Eddie. Four
years before we had known Eddie down
in S. Aust., where he was a bit of a no-
hoper. Couldn’t hold a job, couldn’t hold
his booze, couldn’t hold a quid—if he had
one. Now he looked prosperous. We
aked him about it. He looked across the
canal at a house about a quarter-mile
away. “It was Jean, me missus,” he said.
“She made me get this job water-ganging,
made me save me dough, made me pay
a deposit on that house. She —aw, she’s
a great sort, Jean. She made me”
Just then a soprano shout came from
the house. An imperative, indignant, not-
to-be-denied female shout. Eddie’s eyes
popped and he went straight through the
full canal, out the other side and across
the paddocks. “Yair,” Mat said, as we
resumed our way, “she made him a ruddy
Channel-swimmer, too.”
♦ * ♦ *
“Loulalo”: To me this looks like
weather-forecasting by plants. Last year
we had a very mild winter and almost no
frosts. The spuds that we’d missed in
the harvesting sprouted in early August,
and we were digging them by the end
of October. The bracken began to send
up its furry brown shoots about the same
time in August and the fronds were fully
opened by October. This August the
self-sown murphies poked their heads up,
but the fern did not appear. September
came in with a succession of severe frosts,
cutting the potatoes back to scorched
wisps. A few weeks later the first golden-
brown stems of the bracken came into
sight above ground.
• * * •
“The Missus”: The term “winter hiber-
nation” applied to snails (B. 16/9/’53)
is misleading. Whilst they become torpid
in extremes of cold, their extended sleep
is actually one of aestivation; this form
of suspended animation occurs in hot,
dry periods, and is a natural way of
retaining the moisture which stands for
life-blood in the snail’s body. I’ve often
dug up in garden-soil or found under
rocks shellbacks which have had a thick,
parchment-like skin sealing the whole
opening of the shell. This tough sub-
stance is secreted by the snail itself. In
a rainy summer or in a garden where
the hose is used constantly many snails,
particularly young ones, do not aestivate,
but the very old ones sometimes do even
in damp conditions.
NED JONES’S DOG
Ned Jones taught poker to his dog,
Near where the Barwon flows;
Past Walgett, by a burnt-out log
First placed the cards in rows.
Old Bert the dog was full of brain,
This much his record shows;
To deal, of course, was quite a strain,
For fingers aren’t like toes.
The two would play at dusk and dawn,
With tea and damper made;
Bedourie as a table-top,
A desert-oak for shade.
They never clashed in fifteen years—
That record still will stand;
Old Jonesy smiled benignly, for
He never lost a hand.
At last, at Collarenebri,
When poor old Bert lay done,
They told Ned Jones he must not lie,
But tell them how he won.
Ned said: “Old Bert could beat the band,
His nous could never fail—
But when he got a decent hand.
He always wagged his tail.”
N.S.W.
ERIC BAUME.


Australia's
finest Brandy
for nearly
a century
m
m
tiQSPSTAk
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
@1
HOSPITAL
BRANDY
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
T5T.29.12
FOR OVER
100
YEARS
~Uuu I objoL
maiCjifp
I
‘4k
'*4
The gift of a Lavina is more
than a present ... it is a
companion to be treasured as
a lifelong reminder of the giver.
mm
17-Jewelled
Swiss Masterpieces
LW33.61.8S
JLi-J
ƒ
Hard or Soft?
Thick or Fine?
Upright or Oblique?
The nib that suits one man will drive
another to distraction, so we make Swan
nibs in such variety that everyone can
find one that will "answer” to his hand
exactly. That’s one of the reasons why
it is so satisfying to own a Swan —the
precision writing instrument that is
made for a lifetime of faithful service.
Swan side-lever and leverless pens are
available at all better jewellers, stationers
and stores.
Write for life
with a ...
MABIE, TODD & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD,, SYDNEY
53.62.1 _____
“Tukang Kebun”: Many fellow ex-
guests of Nippon will remember the frog-
races which for a time rivalled the swy
schools as a betting locale in our Singa-
pore working-camp. The starting-barrier
was an upturned box in the centre of
two concentric circles. The inner circle
marked the finishing line ; the outer circle
represented the rails, round which the
punters congregated. When the starter
raised the barrier and removed it and
himself from the course the runners, or,
more accurately, hoppers, would fre-
quently sit in bewildered inactivity for
a few seconds before moving off at
random. We found that they behaved
very true to form, particularly one small
tree-frog, always an odds-on favorite,
which often covered the course without
touching the ground. Could be a great
future for the sport with the advent of
TV —given legalised off-the-eourse bet-
ting, naturally,
* * ♦ *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Fossilisation (B.
30/9/’53)? A curious instance was once
mentioned by P. M. Durack, one
of the brothers who made the epic
journey with cattle from the Barcoo to
the Kimberleys in 1885-86. A native
working for a prospector died and was
buried in marshy soil at low tide. Years
later his body was exhumed and found
to be fossilised, The example was re-
peated when a Chinaman shot himself
and was buried in similar soil. In this
case the victim had been stealing rum,
and to cure him the owner had put in it
some particularly potent pills. Wun Lung
panicked at the taste, and, to avoid a r
lingering death by poison, shot himself.
His _ body was wrapped in a blanket and
buried some distance below high tide.
Some years later, when compatriots
disinterred his body for shipping to the
land of his ancestors, it was found to
be completely preserved. Durack dis-
carded the theory that the pills hacThad
a mummifying effect and thought the pre-
serving agent was something in the
marshy soil. That’s probably right.
You’ll often find fossilised crayfish, and
other life, in those situations.
“An Chuidh”: Excuse me, “Mac-
Ropus,” but the great Brian Boru (B.
23/9/’53) did not lead the kerns in the
Battle of the Boiling Water, better known
as the Battle of Clontarf, now a suburb of
Dublin. Brian was then an old man,
and remained in his tent praying while
the battle was in progress. After it
became a rout he was left unguarded, to
be killed by a fleeing Dane, The lament
“Oh where, Kincora, is Brian the Great?”
is one of the noblest poems in any lan-
guage. The victorious army formed a
funeral cortege and marched north with
the body to Armagh, where it was buried
beside the high altar; there it remains
to this day.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“H.C.8.”; Strange that, when fast
windjammers are mentioned, nobody
pushes the claims of the old Sobraon,
f
“Certainly an abnormal muscular development
yet she was one of the best, and cer-
tainly had more affiliations with Australia
than any of ’em. True she never
equalled the Thermopylae s 300-miles-
,daily for nine days (B. 23/9/’53), but she
once logged 1000 knots in three days
and 2000 for the week. Although her
fastest voyage from London to Sydney
was 73 days, she once raised Cape Otway
in 60, thereby shading Thermopylae’s
London-to-Melbourne in 63 days. The
Sobraon was primarily a passenger-ship,
and therefore hadn’t the incentive to
race that the tea- and wool-clippers had ;
nevertheless her run of 340 knots in 24
hours must have been close to a record.
Built of teak on iron ribs and frame, and
fitted with steel masts, she was originally
intended to be an auxiliary, but never
had engines installed. After 25 years of
constant service on the England-Australia
' run she was purchased and fitted as a
delinquent boys’ corrective school in
Sydney Harbor. After 20 years of that
the Navy acquired her, and as H.M.A.S.
Tingira she was used in the training of
young seamen from 1911 till 1928. After
that she lay at moorings in Sydney
Harbor for years; she went to the
shipbreakers round about ’3B, 72 years
after she had been launched.
* ♦ * ip
“Swelpme”: There’s only one bloke
who’ll give you a bigger dose of the
willies than the newchum jittery of night-
sounds in the bush (B. 16/9/’53), and he
is the bush-bred who is scared in the
dark. And let nobody claim he doesn’t
exist! I once walked home from a rural
social with a young giant whose physical
courage had been proved on the roughest
horses, in epic knuckle-fights and, on one
almost legendary occasion, in rescuing a
man who was being gored by a bull.
But during that two-mile walk he nearly
unscrewed his head off his neck with the
nervous glances he kept sneaking over
his shoulder. His fear was of the super-
natural.
* * * *
“Gunidj”; Yachtsmen cruising be-
tween Adelaide and Port Lincoln are
often puzzled by the horseshoe-shaped
marks on Thistle Island’s lofty limestone
cliffs. They date back some 60 years to
pre-Federation days, when South Aus-
tralia was the proud possessor of the most
heavily-armed gunboat of her size in the
world—H.M.S. Protector. Her heaviest
piece of armament was a 6in. gun
mounted on the foredeck. Every summer
she would take a training cruise and use
Thistle Island for gunnery practice, the
target being some mark on the cliffs.
When the 6in. shells had obliterated it the
gunnery-officer would select another one
and knock it off. It’s a vefy tough
scramble to climb those steep bluffs to
one of the old target-spots, but if you do
you can still find rusting lumps of shells
lying among the rubble and pigface-weed.
♦ * * *
“Nindethana”: A further item of in-
terest concerning the Canning Stock Route
(“Gravelsnatcher,” B. 9/9/’53). George
Lanagan’s wife, Eileen, accompanied him,
and has the distinction of being the only
white woman to have travelled the route.
♦ ♦ * *
“Sister Ellell”: Joe, who came from
somewhere north o’ where the wind
starts, and where a man is ready for bed
when he’s removed his boots and hat,
had been admitted to the bush hospital
for observation. Matron said he must
have pyjamas to wear, so a pair were
bought for him from the post-office-c«m-
store. Joe was soon doing pretty well,
and, resplendent in the pyjamas, was able
to receive his cobbers when they were
able to get down to see him. Said one:
“Gripes, Joe, that’s a flash pair o’ ’jamas
y’re wearin’.” “So they ought to be,”
said Joe. “Twenty-seven an’ a kick and
no blanky weskit!”
* * * *
“Harbel”: Twenty - odd years ago,
when I began clearing my block, a neigh-
bor wandered over and passed the time
of day. However, far from hindering me,
he grabbed a mattock and bogged in. At
lunchtime he confessed: “By rights I
ought to be gettin’ on with the barrow
I’m making, but —ah, well, it’ll keep.”
Next day he insisted on helping me
again. “What about the barrow?” I
asked. “I’ll get stuck into it tomorrow,”
he grinned. When I built the house he
was always on the spot when there was
a bit of bullocking or heavy lifting to
do, and he was just as liberal with his
voluntary services when the other blocks
built up. Ten years later I was in his
place and happened to look under the
house. Covered with dust and spider-
webs were the two shaped handles.
“Never did get round to finishing that
barrow,” he said. “But it’d be pretty
handy for me now; I’ll do it next week-
end.” His daughter got married last
month, and two decades after it was
started the barrow left the slips. He
explained: “Finished that barrow and
gave it to the son-in-law. I know what
it’s like to be battling along in a garden
without a barrow.”
FOX
Out of the hill, brooding and black,
Low through the patches of light.
By the fence and round the stack,
Never a sound in the night:
Sinister, silent, stealthy and sly
With the white of the moon in his fevered eye.
Shadow to shadow, still to still,
Fierce the tire of his zest,
And feathers fall on the trail to the hill,
Till his black shape stands on the crest;
Out of the moonlight and away to the dark
With the warm red blood in the breath of his
bark.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


jFcuffl 441
ftntuj*e
History is a great teacher. It tells, as surely as
stars to the mariner, Man’s direction in his voyage
across the centuries.
I consider that the educators of Australia’s youth
should place Australian history high on the curriculum.
The conviction grew upon me a few days ago as
I read once more the monumental biography which
M. H. Ellis has written of Governor Lachlan
Macquarie.
I found a special delight in watching again the
drama that welled up around that colorful Scot, whose
term in New South Wales from. 1810 to 1821 was set
in turbulence between the Governorships of Captain
Bligh and Sir Thomas Brisbane.
Macquarie’s name is borne along now in a score
of Australian place-names; and rightly so, for he was
a man of immense national vision.
Perhaps my fascination for his time is heightened
by the fact that through the Macquarie days John
Oxley walked and sailed, and my own grandfather,
John W. Deering, was associated as civil engineer with
Oxley in much of his exploration.
Were that not so, I would still have a taste for
Australia’s short but excitingly rich history.
For, you see, we cannot evaluate the present and
the future without estimating the changes and develop-
ments of the years that have gone into making them.
There can be no appreciating Australia’s accom-
plishment in agriculture, for instance, unless we know
how the first meagre crops were grown on a few acres
at the site of Sydney after 1788, with men using crude
hand tools —and sometimes pulling the plough.
We see not the full wonder of today’s great sheep
and cattle industries unless we place them against
the thin strains of stock that were shipped to Australia
in the wake of the First Fleet.
That is the measure; From what have we risen?
To what further heights shall we go?
The history of our own contribution to Australia
will be written, as Macquarie’s has been. I trust we
will have given as good an account of ourselves when
Time provides its own perspective, and the present
becomes the unalterable past.
—M Jyee.
PRO!ECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO WALTER STANLEY STUBBS late of
Granville.—TAKE NOTICE that EDNA
MARY STUBBS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1735 of 1953 on the ground
of desertion for three years and upwards
•without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 27th November
1953 and obtain a copy qf the Petition
without charge from A. J. P. HALL &
HALL, Solicitors, 44 Martin Place, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO EDMUND RICHARD MOORE formerly
of Bondi Junction and Brisbane. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARGARET JEAN MOORE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4045
of 1950 on the ground of habitual
drunkenness and cruelty and habitually
leaving her without the means of support
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry Su-
preme Court House King Street Sydney by
the 18th day of December 1953 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
JOHN WARREN BINNEY, Solicitor, of
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUG-
HAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO BARBARA SIKORSKI late of Murra-
warrie Hotel Goulburn. —TAKE NOTICE
that JAN SIKORSKI has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4742 of 1952 upon the
grounds of your adultery with RONALD
GEORGE and is asking the exercise of the
Court’s discretion in his favour under S.
19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry of the Supreme Court Sydney by
the 20th day of November 1953 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
HIGGINS, de GREENLAW & CO., Solici-
tors, 107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
o
V
m.
M
STILLty
t*c'-
SSS
0^
D®
BY APPOINTMENT
GIN DISTILLERS
to the late RING GEORGE VI
Tanqueray Gordon & Go. Ltd.
&tccrmJi€tfc€t&e
Gordons
Stxmcls SupkMM
Business Rollery Etc.
Our Industrial Future
Many people are muddled in
their minds about the reasons
for business slackness still
evident in some places. They
are inclined to become overpre-
occupied with money factors
instead of with industrial
causes and effects. Any
monetary policy that has Been
laid down by the Federal Trea-
sury over the past few years
has had one principal cause:
Australians are not producing
enough during the hours for
which they are paid wages or
overtime, and as a result de-
velopment is slow and our
costs are too high.
Our problem, therefore, is
industrial rather than financial,
but the Federal Government has
ready to its hand only one
remedy, and that financial. It
cannot itself reintroduce by
legislation the 44-hour week
even under Federal awards;
State Governments, on the other
hand, can legislate for 36 hours
or any hours they like under
State awards.
The division of governmental
power between State and
Federal authorities has had much
to do with the difficulties of
facing industrial and economic
problems fairly and squarely in
Australia. Ever since the pre-
sent Federal Liberal-C.P. Gov-
ernment took office in 1949 it
has had to fight a political cold
war with the “Labor” Govern-
ment in the State of New South
Wales. Instead of wisely ad-
ministering the State, the Mc-
Girr and Cahill Governments
have played politics with hun-
dreds of millions of pounds of
taxpayers’ money. And they
have also wasted a prodigious
amount of manpower and
materials, thus further hinder-
ing the post-war development
of Australia.
Put into the simplest words,
Australia is not getting on with
the job of producing and de-
veloping in the most direct,
efficient and commonsense way.
We are a backward country
industrially, and, with the ex-
ception of a few industries, we
cannot compete on equal terms
with other nations. Our wool
industry is an exception ; B.H.P.
steel is another. But the ineffici-
ency and political muddle in
oth§r sections of our economy
are placing a very heavy load
on the efficient portions of it.
With the end of World War
II we had a great opportunity to
establish ourselves as an efficient
producer and to capture over-
seas markets. But trade-union-
ism had become rotten with
Communism during the war and
post-war years (up to 1949),
when a sympathetic “Labor”
Government was in power in
Canberra and in most of the
States. Coal-production was
held up, and so was shipping
and other transport; and with
these all production was ham-
strung. Costs started to soar, and
our exchange advantage rapidly
disappeared. When, in the
midst of this industrial chaos,
the Federal Arbitration Court
introduced the 40-hour week in
1947, inflation and industrial
disruption became rampant.
Costs skyrocketed and business
initiative became blunted.
There has been a definite
check to costs and a stimulus to
man-hour production as a re-
sult of the Federal Govern-
ment’s economic policy. But
with State “Labor” Govern-
ments not playing the game,
and still bolstering-up inefficient
and inadequate State services
and instrumentalities, Federal
policy is not getting the help it
deserves. The 40-hour week,
especially while the trade-union
movement frowns on systems of
incentive-payments, remains a
stumbling-block in the way of
a return to full production and
efficiency.
How are we to overcome our
industrial backwardness and
get into that position where
trade and industry will flow
freely again and the people as a
whole, including wage-earners,
will see light ahead so far as
the attainment of their economic
objectives (such as home-
ownership) are concerned?
The answer is that the average
Australian must produce more
svery working week. The term
average is used advisedly, tak-
ing into account the fact that
there are non-producers among
us as well as producers. The
fewer industrial “passengers”
there are among us, such as
superfluous civil servants, the
more the “average” Australian
is likely to be able to produce.
At present American coal-
miners dig out more coal in an
hour than do Australian coal-
miners. American dockworkers
unload ships faster than ’ours
do. Road transport competes
freely with rail transport in the
U.S.A. In addition, with a much
larger population, the U.S.A. is
able to mass-produce goods on
a greater scale than we can, and
it can tool-up for mass-produc-
tion with more confidence, being
assured of a much greater de-
mand for its produce than Aus-
tralian manufacturers can.
The fact that the U.S.A. can
mechanise its productive pro-
cesses to a greater extent than
we can is no excuse for our
lagging behind America. If we
are to stand face-to-face com-
petitively with other countries
more technically advanced than
us the only way we are likely
to do it is by working more
hours each week —or, in any
case, working more diligently
each week, and introducing
labor - saving equipment
wherever possible. In Australia,
unfortunately, the attitude of
trade-unionism has been to
stand in the. way of labor-
saving devices, and at the same
time to reduce output per hour
under the outmoded methods it
condones. There are hopeful
signs that this attitude may now
be changing.
This problem of output per
man per hour is fundamental
and inescapable in nearly dll
our industrial and economic
problems. No financial finesse
will by itself get round it. But
if we do eventually succeed in
getting production up and costs
down, then there should be an
immense future ahead of Aus-
tralia. We would be creating
capital out of our own higher
production ; we would be attract-
ing overseas capital by our
lower costs: we would be in-
creasing living standards and
laying the foundations of even
higher ones.' And that sense of
frustration which is so common
a feature of Australia today
would disappear. ,
Associated Tobacco (Syd.)
Consolidated profit earned by
Associated Tobacco Manufac-
turers (Holdings), Ltd., for the
year to June 30 was £12,120 (up
£2948) after allowing £ll,OOO
for tax (up £2700). Lower tax-
rates will save £2500, raising the
profit to £14,620, which, how-
ever, is still £3405 short of the
recommended 7 p.c. div.
(£18,025). In a statement sent
out with the co.’s £lOO,OOO note-
issue prospectus the board talked
about a “substantial increase”
in profits and promised a 7 p.c.
div.
The manufacturing co.’s undis-
tributed profits (earned before
the holding co. took it over) will
be drawn on to cover the excess
payout; last year the same
source was tapped to the tune
of £6368. Pre-acquisition profits
of a subsidiary “should be
viewed as being of a capital
nature,” says the Institute of
Chartered Accountants in Aus-
tralia, in its “Recommendations
on. Accounting Principles.”
The £lOO,OOO 6 p.c. unsecured
convertible note-issue closed on
September 30 with as yet unan-
nounced results. New money is
wanted to “finance new equip-
ment and working capital.”
Shareholders’ interests might
have been better served by
passing the dividend, and thus
providing at least some of the
fresh funds from profits.
In their annual report the
directors look forward to
“greatly improved results” in
the current term, following the
recent removal of the manufac-
turing co.’s activities to its new
factory at Salisbury (Brisbane).
To pay the 6 p.c. note interest
on £lOO,OOO, and cover the bare
7 p.c. div. on £275,000 of share
capital, the operating co. would
need to turn in about £35,000
before tax. It is not reasonable
to suppose that the tobacco-
products famine will last for
ever, and competition with the
old-established giants and others
in the industry is likely to
sharpen in the years ahead.


it®
m
j’
STEP INTO A
M
o
r
The busy man steps confidently into A.N.Z. Bank.
Time is important to him and he knows
that A.N.Z. Bank is organised to give
efficient service quickly.
A-N-Z
-
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia The Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
Established 1835 Established 1837
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji and in London
AGENTS IN ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD (
17. 3146«0a
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
ALL GENUINE
I.H. PARTS ARE
f
GENUINE
PARTS
All genuine International
Harvester Parts are “Identical
Twins”. This means they’re identical
with the original parts built into new
products at International Harvester’s
Works. They pass the same inspec-
tion, they’re made f#om the same
materials . . . that’s
why they fit better, last
longer, and retain the
economy of performance
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(incorporated in Victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities.
Works: Geelong and Dandenong, Victoria.
in your International trucks,
McCormick International tractors and
farm equipment. Your International
Harvester dealer has a systematically
controlled stock of parts for all
the I.H. equipment in your area.
Don’t rely on “will fit” parts. Ask
your local International
Harvester dealer for
only Genuine I.H.
Parts.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
Builder of Essential Equipment for Essential Work.
n
McCormick International
Tractors and Farm Equipment
International Trucks
Defender Refrigerators
International industrial Powaß
pssa-aa
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
The findings of that reluctant
foster-parent, the British Medical
Association, on the present con-
dition of its intractable charge,
the National Health Service,
have just been published after a
most thorough survey by a com-
mittee of general practitioners.
This condition, it would seem,
may be summarised by the old
formula, “as good as can be
expected.”
Medical attention is within
reach of all, which is a good
thing and satisfying to the public
conscience. The majority of
G.P.’s express themselves as
“happy in their work.” Most of
them are cpnscientious and com-
petent ; two out of five (and
more among the younger men)
are first-class. And the service
has settled down. It is working
more smoothly.
Yet the conclusion is inescap-
able that this is due more to the
doctors’ own adaptability and
sense of vocation than to the
structure of the service. The
picture of a background condu-
cive to healing and single-
minded devotion to work is not-
ably absent. Many doctors have
complained that the demands of
the Health Service lead to
“mental fatigue, reduced alert-
ness and impaired judgment.”
And 90 per cent, are overpressed.
The committee sought to find
out whether the general-practi-
tioner is able to practise good
medicine. Its answer, discourag-
ingly ambiguous, is that “an un-
qualified affirmative cannot be
given.” With similar deliberate
caution, the committee finds that
there has been “at least some
deterioration in the doctor-
patient relationship;”
And that, as everyone knows
who has doctor-friends, is a
flagrant understatement. The
G.P., once the respected confi-
dant of the family,, has perforce
become a lightning artist in diag-
nosis, a fast writer-out of
prescriptions. His crowded wait-
ing-room leaves him no time
for the gradual, sympathetic
approach that puts the patient
at his ease. And his self-respect
is liable to be pricked when he
finds that his services are in-
cluded on a person’s shopping-
list ; or when he is regarded as
no more than a clerical formality
between the patient and the hos-
pital. (This is borne out by the
increased strain on the hospitals,
for the average waiting period
for non-urgent cases is six
months.)
No practical solution seems to
be forthcoming, either from the
B.M.A. or any other source. The
Health Centres that were con-
sidered essential to the service
are no more than dream-fig-
ments, although an extension of
group practices will lead to the
same end. Not altogether confi-
dently, the B.M.A. advocates
“education” of the public in
self-reliance and first-aid, but
this conflicts with its finding
that articles and radio-talks on
health tend to promote
neurotics.
Clearly, nothing is left but for
the service to sort itself out.
Nothing Extenuate
The Old Vic, fresh from the
Edinburgh Festival, has opened
its new season with a “Hamlet”
that is intense, passionate and
dynamic. Michael Benthall, the
new director, has himself pro-
duced the play with remarkable
force and unity. The keynote is
supercharged simplicity. Pace
and attack spring from the
spoken words thus magnifying
Shakspeare rather than trying to
improve upon him.
There are many effective inno-
vations. One is especially sym-
bolic and foreboding. This
occurs after the closet scene,
when Hamlet is hemmed-in by
black-cloaked courtiers with
drawn swords. And his intoning
after addressing the skull is no
less powerful. The duel is
realistic and breathtaking, with
Hamlet always on top. Instead
of the clumsy exchange of
rapiers, Laertes pinks Hamlet
between the shoulder-blades
when his back is turned, enhanc-
ing the treachery of the poisoned
rapier. It is a pity the set
—a florid, triple arch more sug-
gestive of Florence than Elsi-
nore—is immovable, for it cuts
off at least half the stage.
Richard Burton is a 28-year-
old actor who has soared to fame
almost overnight. He is short,
hirsute, inclined to be tubby,
and might be type-cast as the
young Napoleon. But these dis-
advantages, if such they are,
amount to nothing. He is an
actor of immense power with a
resonant baritone voice and the
rare gift of speaking the “quota-
tions” as if for the first time
without altering their meaning.
His interpretation is clear-cut.
He is not a wayward intellectual
so much as a passionate young
noble with an overstrong sense
of right and wrong. All his
actions, whether vengeance
against the King or strictures
upon his mother, are governed
by hi? preoccupation with the
ghost’s adjurations. And his
madness is genuinely feigned. In
fact, the most purposeful Ham-
let since, and including, Gielgud.
Claire Bloom’s Ophelia,
although unassailable techni-
cally, is almost without charac-
ter ; even the poignancy of her
madness —at times very loud- and'
wild —is indirect, being conveyed
by the watchers. Michael
Hordern’s Polonius is sharply
defined but too consciously
striving not to be Polonius,
Claudius (Laurence Hardy) is
not an unmitigated evildoer;
he has benevolence for some and
faces danger with serene quiet.
Gertrude (Fay Compton) plainly
lives in conflict with herself, a
tragic figure whether speaking
or unspeaking.
A teeming audience, of whom
many were attracted by the
Vic’s filmstars, were roused to
their feet by the integrity and
mounting excitement of the per-
formance, When teamwork is
as inspired as this, individual
incongruities count for nothing.
Ibsen
Ibsen’s Nora is something of
a Hamlet in reverse. While there
is much to entrance the theatre-
lover in “A Doll’s House”
(Lyric, Hammersmith), Mai
Zetterling is not quite able to
fuse together the silly, doting
wife and the strong-willed door-
slammer, Her empty-headed
immaturity is David Copper-
field’s Dora to the life, not Tor-
vald’s Nora. She quite fails to
“play against the line,” Nor is
Denmark’s leading actor,
Mogens Wieth, insupportable
enough as Iforvald; but his
assurance is gilt-edged and his
English as to the manner born.
The lush period-atmosphere and
Ibsen’s now rather quaint text-
bookishness hold the interest
until the tremendous last scene.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
elore you go
rood
take this wise precaution
17 NSURE complete enjoyment and absence of
4 worry by placing the control of your affairs
in the hands of a skilled and trusted Attorney
or Agent. The Union Trustee Company is fully
equipped to act in this capacity. Its services
include the collection of all classes of income
and attention to all kinds of business and personal
matters. It also prepares taxation returns and
arranges and supervises the investment of funds.
Be sure, too, that your Will is in order.
Write, without cost or obligation, for the Company’s
booklet which explains fully these and other
services available. Or call for a confidential inter-
view with one of the Company’s senior officers.
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OP AUSTRALIA LTD. .... ,
(Incorporated in Victoria) (Established 188S>
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St„ Sydney: 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and a* Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton U.T.68,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dunlop Rubber Australia, Ltd.
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
Net , Dividends x To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.t
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1948. .534,745 10 8 394,252 140,493 771,043
Surplus sale assets, £198,422 .. .. 969,465
Less premium shares bought, £62,364.. 907,101
Unexplained reduction contingency re-
serve, £45,645 861,456
Add sundry adjustments, £6898 .. 868,354
1949. .454,117 10 8 394,252 59,865 928,219
Less premium shares subsid., etc., £16,710 911,609
Added intangibles, £1324 .. .. 910,185
1950.. 757.118 10 8 394,252 862,860 1,273,051
To special stock reserve, £175,000 .. 1,098,051
Share premiums, £679,002 .. .. 1,777,053
Net reduction reserves, £4123 .. .. 1,772,930
1951.. 10 8 452,117 448,045 2,220,975
To special stock reserve, £125,000 .. 2,095,975
Share premiums, £475,312 .. .. 2,571,287
Reduction reserves, £164,912 net .. 2,406,375
1952. .888,389 10 8 527,119 361,270 2,767,645
Tax overprovided, £9035 .. .. 2,776,680
Reduction intangibles, £9O .. .. 2,776,770
Unexplained jncrease, £34,970 .. .. 2,811,740
1953. .754,679 10 8 600,000 154,679 2,966,419
From special stock reserve, £lOO,OOO .. 3,066,419
* After deducting outside interests,
t After deducting goodwill, etc. (now £731,039).
When the ord. div. was lifted from
5 p.c. to 8 p.c. in 1947 and the co. set
out on a big and costly programme of
development—now about complete—the
board’s declared intention was to keep
the div. steady and plough back the bal-
ance of net earnings, which amounted to
£1,651,451 over the last seven years. Be-
cause of this and other things, the market
for the scrip was little affected by last
term’s change in trading conditions and
drop of £133,710 in combined net earn-
ings of the group.
At 295. 6d. (295. a year ago) the f.-p.
£1 ords. return 5.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
distribution. The £1 10 p.c. prefs.—
930,000 of them in a paid capital of
£7,267,500—at 375. 3d. yield 5.4 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £ll 2s. 2d. prefs. and
295. Bd. ords. Obviously the market
doesn’t expect much better than 8 p.c. for
a while at any rate.
Biggest thing of its kind in the Southern
Hemisphere, the Dunlop group—parent
and eight subsidiaries—operates a string
of 18 factories scattered throughout the
Commonwealth, They turn out car-,
truck- and tractor-tyres, rubber footwear,
rubber-flooring and industrial-belting, as
well as latex upholstery and mattresses,
wet-cell batteries, tennis-racquets and gut,
tennis-and golf-balls and a variety of
other lines.
To help finance the growth, dictated by
an expanding market, those on the
register put up £3,644,159 (£2,571,845
capital and £1,267,500 share-premiums)
during the seven years to the close of
accounts in 1952. Also, £1,856,000, of
which £lOO,OOO has since been repaid, was
raised on p.c. debentures, which are
earning more than their keep, and a
large amount was added to the floating
debt, too. As new plant came into pro-
duction and new subsidiary undertakings
were established turnover and earnings
responded. The ratio of net earnings to
average ord. capital (after deducting the
pref. div.) rose from an average of 8.5
p.c. for the five years to 1947 to an
average of 14.2 p.c. for the quinquennium
to the close of accounts in 1952. Since
large amounts of capital were unproduc-
tive for varying times during the latter
period, the results are a testimony to the
quality of the control as well as to the
efficiency of the plant—inflationary pres-
sures notwithstanding.
The Australian output of tyres and
tubes —they are the biggest item in the
co.’s turnover —fell away by about 33 p.c.
last term, due largely to import restric-
tions and consequent fall in new motor-
vehicle registrations. Suppression of
heavy road transport by discriminatory
legislation in favor of State railway
systems, contracted scale of public works,
growth of competition from imports and
heavy stocks carried by retailers at the
beginning of the term also affected de-
mand for the products of the group, while
wage and other costs continued to rise—
import-duty and primage increase the cost
of raw rubber to Australian manufac-
turers by 20 p.c., an unnecessary handi-
cap in a competitive market.
The net effects of the squeeze show up
the contraction in profit already men-
tioned. The £754,679 of profit claimed
was written after allowing £526,802 (up
£6086) for depreciation and an unstated
amount for taxation and other contin-
gencies. The £754,679 covered the pref.
div. and 10.4 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 14.6, 18, 17.6, 9.6 and 11.6 p.c.
back to 1948. So nothing had to be
strained to repeat the 8 p.c. div., and the
board considered the outlook had im-
proved and steadied sufficiently to
warrant transfer of £lOO,OOO from the
special provision for stock-depreciation
(now £200,000 and deducted from the
book-value of the asset in the accounts)
to free reserves.
Balance-sheet figures reflect adjustment
to altered trading conditions, strengthen-
ing of the financial structure, and con-
tinued factory expansion as part of the
management’s assault upon costs:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £6,000,000 £7,267,500 £7.267,500
Outside interest 169,757 42,132 26,560
Mortgages .. 1,587,500 1,856,000 1,756,000
Overdraft .. 2,600,267 2,173,686
Sundry creditors 1,811,858 .2,236,688 1,809,036
Tax reserve .. 1,317,587 1,519,121 910,789
Final divs. .. 290,510 325.449 853,230
Freeholds, etc. .. 1,802,840 2,136,670 2,597,766
Plant, etc. .. 2,055,080 2,582.295 2,687,360
Stocksf .. .. 8,526,901 10,018.495 6,249,707
Debtors .. .. 2,989,885 3,378,550 3,230,927
Investments .. 484,470 67,269 66,236
Cash .. .. 4,281 4,842 367,488
t After deducting special reserve, £BOO,OOO, 1951
and 1952; £200,000, 1953.
Net additions to fixed assets totalled
£566,161. Stocks were reduced by
£3,768,788 and book-debts by £147,623,
while the overdraft (£2,173,686 at the
previous balance) was wiped out, £lOO,OOO
was chipped off mortgages, £427,552 off
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
and the cash holding was strengthened by
£362,646. The ratio of current assets
(£9,904,358) to liabilities (£4,829,005) was
two-to-one as against 1.6-to-one a year
earlier.
Financially and technically the co. is
in a strong position, and the outlook is
brighter than it was a year ago, thanks
to economic and other developments,
including tax-reductions and abolition
of quarterly basic-wage adjustments.
Winch combe, Carson, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1944.. 56,809 7 p.c. = 88,500 18,309 403,709
1945.. 53,659 7 „ „ 88,600 15,159 418,868
1946.. 57,156 7 „ „ 38,500 18,656 437,524
1947.. 64,386 7 „ „ 38,500 25,886 463,410
From inner reserves, £105,000 .. 568,410
1948.. 78,341 9 p.c. = 49,500 28,841 597,251
1949.. 83,183 9„ „ 54,000 29,183 626,434
1950.. 111,411 10 „ „ 60,000 51,411 677,845
1951.. 183,927 12$ „ „ 99,231 84,696 762,541
Share premiums, £lOO,OOO .. .. 862,541
1952.. 142,959 10 p.c. = 90,000 52,959 915,500
1953.. 176,979 10 „ ~ 100,000 75,979 991,479
•After deducting goodwill (£41,988).
This robust woolbroking, pastoral-
finance, merchandising and agency busi-
ness is one of the largest sellers of the
staple on the Sydney market, and has
strong and growing connections in
Queensland, too. The improvement of
£33,020 in last term’s net earnings was
due to the bigger volume of wool and
livestock handled and higher prices. The
total value of the entire clip in N. S.
Wales and Queensland compares as fol-
lows over the last four seasons:
f-* N. S. Wales > ( Queensland ,
Total Value. Av, Bale. Total Value. Av. Bale.
£ £ s. d. £ £ s. d.
’49-50 107,731.932 78 3 0 46,155,258 88 9 4
’5O-51 228,404,770 180 9 4 98,244,989 177 2 3
’5l-52 105.260,547 93 18 1 48,957,421 104 15 6
’52-53 151,347,756 108 12 8 61,855,194 116 13 11
The improvement in last season’s cheque
was 43.7 p.c. N. S. Wales and 26.3 p.c.
Queensland.
And there was also a marked increase
in the volume of wool and livestock which
the co. itself put under the hammer:
Wool
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.
1950 .. 277,920 306,099 25,237
1951 .. 267,986 231,229 24,292
1952 .. 241,249 256,510 31,057
1953 . . 286,684 338,330 37,292
Realisations of hides, sheepskins, rabbit-
skins, tallow and other station produce
improved, too, and so did the activities
of the co.’s agricultural machinery depart-
ment in Brisbane,
The £175,979 of profit was written
after setting aside £25,897 (up £3001)
for depreciation and something for taxa-
tion and other contingencies —whether
the allowance for taxation was at the old
or new rates isn’t mentioned. The £175,979
was 17.5 p.c. on capital as against 15.8,
23.1, 18.5, 13.8 and 14.2 p.c. back to
1948. So the 10 p.c. div. remained a
comfortable matter, and the £75,979 of
the year’s profit that was left raised visible
reserves to within £8521 of paid capital.
The two combined therefore need turn
in only about 5 p.c. to cover 10 p.c. on
capital alone.
To help finance expansion of the busi-
ness, £400,000 of fresh capital, which
brought with it £lOO,OOO of share-
premiums, has been gathered since June,
1950. The last £26,295 of the money,
which came in during the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts, and more
besides, went into freeholds (up £39,788)
and plant (up £11,413):
1951. 1952. 1953.
Capital .. .. £836,315* £978,705* £1,000.000
Creditors .. 2,646,603 2,499,815 3,057,418
Overdraft . . 52,333 127,598
Final div. .. 59,846 45,000 50,000
Freeholds .. 867,042 455,022 494,810
Plant .. .. 83,380 103,504 114,917
Stocks . . 315,233 472,926 866,303
Advances, etc. 3,588,745 8,527,918 3,435,456
Investments and
cash .. 2,238 2,243 687,411
•Includes £35,315 and £73,705 application money
on new shares in 1951 and 1952 respectively.
Advances, etc. (down £92,462) are nearly
twice the size of the 1949 figure. The
year’s net additions of £557,603 to the
creditors item and £685,168 to invest-
ments and cash are interrelated, being
mainly unsettled wool transactions at
balancing date.
As for the current term, early esti-
mates of a clip equal in volume to last
season’s might not be realised unless good
rains soon fall over the chief producing
areas. Good clearances at auction are
reported to date, and prices, which have
fluctuated within narrow limits, have
averaged out around last season’s very
satisfactory level. Recent tax-cuts and
less buoyant costs should help net results.
The industry’s long-term prospects are
anybody’s guess at the moment. The
last few years seem to have established
beyond doubt that we are on the
threshold of a new age in mixture-fibres,
which might provide the consumer with
better fabrics at lower prices, and at the
same time ensure a good demand for
raw wool at satisfactory figures.
At 38s, 6d. (375. a year ago) the co.’s
f.-p. £1 shares return 5.2 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is 295. lOd.
Castlemame, Perkins (Brisbane)
To Re- Rte-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1946.. 140,928 8 p.c. = 120,000 ) .oq oen oai
Provident fund, £2500 . . J 18)428 359,264
From cont’g’eies prov’n, £100.000.. 459,264
1947. . 151,620 8 p.c. ~ 120,000 1 «« 120 aqq 384
Provident fund, £2500 ..(4:9,140
1948.. 149,431 8 p.c. = 120,000 | „ 6 931 515
Provident fund, £2500 .. f 40,031 oio.dio
1949.. 148,264 8 p.c. = 120,000 ) 9n 7R . cqr o7Q
Provident fund, £2500 .. ( 20)764 636)079
From inner reserves, £lOO,OOO .. 636,079
1950.. 151,609 Bp.e.= 120,000) „ Q lno , RR
Provident fund, £2500 ..( 29)109 665488
From inner reserves, £200,000 .. 865,188
1951.. 192,141 8 p.c.= 120,000 ) 69 64 .
Provident fund, £2500 .. f 59,641 934,829
From inner reserves, £lOO,OOO .. 1,034,829
1952.. 206,669 8 p.c. = 120,000 ) R , , RO , QQB
Provident fund, £2500 . . f 84469 1418)998
From inner reserves, £lOO,OOO ..1,218,998
1953. . 214,011 8 p.c. = 120,000 ) oi c-i-i i 310 509
Provident fund, £2500 .. j 91,511 1)310)509
The price of the f.-p. 12s. 6d. shares of
this well-entrenched Brisbane brewery,
which has strong and growing connections
throughout the southern half of the State,
advanced from 235, 9d. to 255. over the
last 12 months. The return at the higher
figure is 4 p.c, on an 8 p.c. div. basis,
or less than can be had from Government
securities. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is 235, sd. The investor at 255. who looks
for 5 p.c. on his money counts on a 10
p.c. distribution, which was earned with
4.2 p.c. to spare last term.
In the area served the co. shares the
bulk of the trade with the Queensland
Brewery, which has gathered £291,945
of fresh capital over the last couple of
years, raising the total on its register to
£1,553,611. The new money, and more
besides, went into fixed assets, which in-
clude hotel freeholds. Since there is no
price-cutting in the trade, competition
takes the form of buying up hotel pro-
perties, thus widening and anchoring turn-
over. C.P.’s capital has remained steady at
£1,500,000 since 1940. Still, its strong
holding of cash and Government securi-
ties, etc. (£696,275 at July 31 last) doesn’t
suggest that shareholders are likely to be
asked for more at an early date.
C.P.’s gross earnings and exes, are not
broadcast, and the board is tight-lipped
about the number of hotels owned and
their location. However, statistics show
that the Australian output of beer has
kept on expanding for over a decade, the
increase being approximately 8 p.c. for
the year to June 30 last. But the mount-
ing cost of raw materials and labor,
and the time-lag in lifts in controlled
selling-prices, have narrowed the gains.
After setting aside £21,721 (up £4395)
for depreciation and an unstated amount
for taxation and other contingencies, the
cautious board figured last term’s net re-
sult £7342 stronger at £214,011. That
was 14.2 p.c. on capital as against 13.7,
12.8, 10.1, 9.9 and 9.9 p.c. back to 1948.
And in the past there has been more
wheat in the ear than the eye could see,
as last term’s disclosure of a further
£lOO,OOO of inner reserves shows —no less
than £500,000 has been taken from hiding
and put in the window over the last four
years.
Balance-sheet figures reflect a strong
financial structure and continued expan-
sion of the undertaking:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £1,500,000 £1,500,000 £1,500.000
Creditors, etc.* .. 599,642 688,355 662,519
Final div. .. 60,000 60.000 60,000
Brewery, hotels,
etc 2,116,436 2,199,028 2,294,171
Stocks .. .. 201,629 300,357 811,920
Debtors .. 162,396 244,805 230,662
Cash, etc. .. 614,009 523,163 696,275
* Includes unstated provision for taxation and
contingencies.
Last term the net growth in fixed assets,
which includes hotel properties, was
£95,143. Allowing for the transfer of
£lOO,OOO from contingencies to reserve
account, the growth in the amount coming
to creditors, etc., was £174,164, and
£173,112 was added to the holding of
cash, etc., which might mean preparation
for further expansion of the co.’s brewing
and hotel interests.
The current term promises to be better
than the one which ended on July 31 last.
A wide range of goods and services, in-
cluding beer and hotel tariffs, were
recently returned to the de-controlled list
in Queensland. And local brewers, who
had asked for a lift in selling-prices to
help offset recent growth in the cost of
sugar and other brewing ingredients,
raised the over-the-counter price of bulk
beer by -£d. a glass, and of the bottled
stuff by 2d. a unit. Employment and
wages remain at high levels, the tax
burden has been lightened, costs promise
to be steadier, and the Royal visit should
stimulate spending in the trade.


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
f
CHARTS
Circular Charts for ail typ«i
of Recording Instrument*
•ear (Mif cUm of MiclMMqi
W Equipment
MfTf« CHARTS • Specialty
JACI»WO‘SIJIUVAN%L*
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country*
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the SchooL
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
. at's good time..
-v
A KW
/ M
m
/
/
/
U
m
m
K
\. £sT
JJ/yW'
aii
01^
9*
OV*
m
AND MEDIUM STRENGTH
XI3OD-8.53
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO GEORGE RONALD WILLIAMS late
of Goulburn Street Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that MAY WILLIAMS has filed
a Petition lor Divorce No. 2612 of 1952
cm the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
11th day of December 1953 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
DENSLEY & DOWNING, Solicitors. 149
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUQ-
HAN, Registrar,
Missing Friends
BARRY.—lnformation required concerning
the whereabouts of any issue of HENRY
BARRY, son of Thomas and Mary Barry
(nee Mary Connor) brother of James, re-
sided one time at Langford Street, Kill-
orglin, Co. Kerry, Ireland. Went to
Australia with Daniel Hayes of Main
Street, Killorglin, about 1910. Enquirer
Maisie, daughter of James. Communicate
niece, Mrs. Lapleka, (nee Maisie Barry),
29 Melville Terrace, Edinburgh 9, Scot-
land.
HAMMOND.—WiII THOMAS FRANK
HAMMOND of Albany Place, Dover, Kent,
who left England for Australia in 1924,
communicate with ROOTES & ALLIOTT,
Solicitors, Folkestone, Kent, England
when he will hear news to his advantage.
NEXT OF KIN SOUGHT
The Public Trustee for the State of Vic-
toria, in the Commonwealth of Australia,
is the Administrator of the Estate of
PATRICK JOHN RYAN also known as
PATRICK RYAN, late of 86 Haines Street,
North Melbourne, in the said State, Coun-
cil Employee, deceased intestate (herein-
after called “the Intestate”), who died on
the 24th July, 1947. The Intestate was a
son of Patrick Ryan and Maria Ryan (nee
Corbett), who were married at Ballarat,
in the said State, on the 2nd December,
1864. The said Maria Corbett is beliqved
to have been born at Cappanavile,
Tipperary, Ireland between the years 1830
and 1845, her parents having been Patrick
Corbett and Catherine Corbett (nee
Young). Any brother or sister of the said
Maria Corbett, who survived the Intestate,
would be entitled to share in his estate,
but if no brother or sister of the said
Maria Corbett survived the Intestate, then
any child of any -deceased brother or
sister of the said Maria Corbett would be
entitled to share in the said Estate. The
value of the Estate available for distri-
bution is likely to be approximately Six-
teen hundred pounds.
All Persons claiming to be entitled to
share in the Estate of the Intestate are
required to send particulars of their Claim
to the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 412 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia,
within thirty days of the date of the publi-
cation of this advertisement.
C. J. GARDNER, Public Trustee for Vic-
toria, 412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS. R. J. VICARS,
J. W. DUNLOP. A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
..<S:
i
m
r ■■ ■
mM
v49&P-*4*
yl\^
■<|V''
Sfi
\ctsttJj& g & li r ***
Home
or
Away
"BIACK&WHITE
SCOTCH
WHISKY
From Scotland~-~every precious drop.
By Appointment to
the late King George VI
ď
Scotch Whisky Distillers
James Buchanan & Co. Ltd.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD., GLASGOW. SCOTLAND
JB8
Malleys, Ltd. (Sydney)
r Dividends ,
Pref. Re-
April, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries, serves.*
£ £ £ £
' 1947..36,755 2700 10 p.c.= 25,983 87,046
Prom tax reserve, £9433 .. 96,479
1948.. 626 2700 10 p.c.=: 30,000 114,405
To inner reserved, £5OOO .. 109,405
Share premiums, £112,500 .. 221,905
1949.. 49.060 2700 10 p.c— 32,875 235,390
1950.. 67.800 2700 10 „ ~ 42,500 257,990
Unexplained addition, £439 .. 258,429
Revaluation of properties,
£129,880 388,309
1951.. 2700 10 p.c.=: 42,500 423,674
Reserves capitalised, £212,382 211,292
Net share premiums, £7600 .. 218,892
Surplus sale assets, £44,055 ~ 262,947
June, 8 p.c. -
1952.. 88.237 2441 8 p.c.= 51,863 298,880
Share premiums, £3654 .. 300,534
Capital profit, £533 .. .. 301,067
1953-63,078 2400 8 p.c.= 57,028 304,717
* After deducting intangibles, £22,682
at 30/6/’52,
Earnings of this 34-year-old have
always been sensitive to de-
velopments in the building trade.
The group—parent and a couple
of recently-acquired subsidiaries
—turns out plumbers’ and
builders’ hardware and sheet-
metal products, bath-heaters,
hot-water systems, dairy utensils
and kitchenware, etc. The
figures in the table relate to the
parent’s accounts only. The
1952 profit, which covered a
period of 14 months, was equal
to £75,632 per annum. On this
basis the slip in last term’s de-
clared net result was £12,554,
due mainly to the slackness in
home- and other building,
especially during the first half of
the period.
The £63,078 of profit claimed
was equal to 8.5 p.c. on the
£742,854 of share capital—it in-
cludes £30,000 of 9 p.c. pref.
money subject to the outmoded
N. S. Wales Interest Reduction
Act —compared with 10.2, 17.7,
14.9 and 13.6 p.c. back to 1949.
The div. was kept at an all-
round 8 p.c. For the five years
to 1951 the prefs. got their full
contract rate and the ords. 10
p.c. However, the one-for-two
bonus share-issue of 1950 makes
8 p.c. worth 10.3 p.c. on ord.
capital as it stood before the gift.
Since the Interest Reduction
Act just referred to is now hav-
ing the reverse effect to that
originally intended, namely, to
bring about some equality of
sacrifice, the Government should
remove it from the Statute
Book.
Last term’s overall net trading
result (parent and subsidiaries)
was only £51,235 (down
£73,535), or 6.9 p.c. on capital;
the principal offshoot, A. Joyce
and Co. Pty. (Melbourne), hav-
ing operated at a loss. The
Joyce co., which used to make
dairy equipment, etc., was taken
over during the 1952 term for
£168,436 net (after writing off
an unstated amount of intang-
ibles in the vendor co.’s
accounts), payment being made
partly in cash and partly in
shares issued at a premium. The
idea was to give the parent a
foothold on the manufacturing
side in Victoria. Production of
some old lines has been discon-
tinued, and additional plant has
been installed to cope with
manufacture of Malleys’ goods.
The inevitable dislocation was
responsible for the year’s trad-
ing loss (amount unstated), the
chairman says. The factory is
now reported well-equipped and
in active production. The idea
of erecting a second factory at
Tottenham (Vic.) has been
thrown into the discard.
National Water Heaters Pty.
(Sydney), makers of bath- and
other water-heaters, taken over
just before the close of accounts
in 1952 for £9500 in scrip
(including £3654 of share-
premiums), is now in voluntary
liquidation, the business having
been absorbed into the parent
co.’s activities. Last term the
small three-year-old laundry-
equipment business of John
Roberts Pty. (Sydney) was also
taken over for £11,866 (cash).
It will continue as a wholly-
owned subsidiary, whose busi-
ness is to be developed “con-
siderably.”
During the year the parent
worked down stocks (in at cost
or under) by £169,408 and
lightened the overdraft by
£83,270 and the amount coming
to sundry creditors, etc., by
£45,863:
Parent Co.
1951. 1952. 1953.
£,£>£/
Paid capital .. 455,000 737,008 742,854
Mortgages .. 50,000 50,000 50,000
Overdraft ~ 188,366 229,549 146,279
Creditors, etc.* 225,645 258,476 212,613
Pinal diva. .. 44,154 62,211 57,336
Freeholds ~ 343,371 308,424 331,454
Plant, etc. .. 184,931 235,152 255,260
Shareholdings .. 177,936 189,802
Stocks .. .. 473,193 652,804 483,396
Book debts .. 384,782 244,566 263,173
Cash, etc. .. 462 5,238 714
* Includes provision for taxation.
The addition of £23,030 to free-
holds and of £20,108 to plant,
etc., together with activities in
Victoria, can be taken as an
expression of the board’s con-
fidence in the future.
As for the current term, turn-
over has strengthened a little
since the close of accounts, and
the cut in co. taxation and abo-
lition of quarterly basic-wage
adjustments should help net
earnings, too. Much will depend
upon how the Victorian business
pans out. Competition in the
co.’s lines is keen.
At 225. 9d. (255. 6d. a year
ago) the f.-p, £1 ords. return
7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div, basis. On
the same basis the prefs. at 255.
yield 6.4 p.c. Net tangible cover
(parent’s accounts) is £34 18s. 4d.
prefs. and 275. ords.
Rawang Concessions, Ltd.
Although this one of the
Anglo-Oriental group, operating
in Selangor (F.M.S.), got its
dredge going again in July, 1946,
shareholders didn’t come into
the picture until Dec., 1950.
That was because money was
wanted for transfer of the dredge
from the original Rawang area,
where dredging reserves were
worked out at the end of 1948, to
new ground at Ulu Yam,
where 16 H acres, containing
13,800,000 c.y. of .681 b. ground,
awaited treatment. Here digging
began toward the end of June,
1950, and has continued with
very satisfactory results since.
The gravel-pump at Rawang
kept the pot boiling meanwhile
by sluicing ground with an un-
even limestone bottom, which
the dredge couldn’t handle. All
pay-dirt in the sluicing section
had been treated by the end of
Aug., 1952, when the pump was
dismantled for storage.
Here are operating results
over the last five years:
Year Treat-
to Tr’ted Yield ment
March ’OOO t.o. Costs Profit. Divg.
81, c.y. Tons. c.y. £ £
1949.. 2139 586.7 9.6 d. 40,301 Nil
1950.. 504 202.8 21.2 „ 15,716 Nil
18.5 p.c.
1951.. 1886 499.8 16.4., 85,729 37,000
52.5 p.c.
1952.. 2477 726.5 17.2., 105,063 105,000
1953.. 2477 768.8 15.9,. 108,932 105,000
It was lower operating costs and
slightly richer ground that en-
abled the co. to show £3869
more profit last term, despite
bigger allowances for deprecia-
tion and depletion (£97,794, up
£46,799) and taxation (£70,000,
up £7000). The 768.8 tons of
tin-ore recovered (assay approx.
75 p.c.) was equivalent to
575.12 tons metallic tin, which
fetched on the average £931.2
(down £2.5) per ton. The
£108,932 of profit was 54.4 p.c.
on the £200,000 of capital, and
the div. was maintained at 15s.
per £1 share, less 30 p.c.
Malayan tax, or 52.5 p.c. net.
Finances are comfortable.
When the books closed current
assets totalled £530,677, of
which £55,804 was stores, and
current liabilities amounted to
£145,905. In addition there was
a rehabilitation loan of £12,157,
which final payment on the co.’s
war-damage claim will more
than wipe out.
Since the books closed there
has been a precipitous fall in the
price of tin, the London average
per ton tumbling from £5760.6
for April to £5598.6 for August.
On Oct. 7 the spot figure was
£S6O9 and the forward quote
£5597.5. The co.’s all-in costs
last term were £771 per ton
metallic, of which £l7O was de-
preciation and £121.8 taxation;
the other £479.2 included export
duty (£83,245) amounting to
£144.7 per ton. On the basis of
these figures appearances are
that the co. can win only moder-
ate profits with tin around
£S6OO per ton.
On Sydney ’Change buyers
recently offered 50s. for the co.’s
f.-p. £1 shares, with sellers stand-
ing off at 655.


Women's Letters
MCLECUBNE
Before going on to the Commonwealth
Bank Ball at St. Kilda Town Hall Mr.
and Mrs. L. J. Dooling were host and
hostess at a buffet-dinner party at the
Commonwealth Bank, Mrs. Dooling wear-
ing a pale-mauve, self-patterned satin
brocade gown with a matching stole.
Among the guests were the governor of
the bank, Dr. H. C, Coombs, and his wife,
who wore pale-gold satin brocades; Mr.
and' Mrs. W. K. Burnside, her choice
a bronze-shot satin frock embellished with
gold-bead trimming; Mr. and Mrs.
George Jaspers, the latter’s gown being
of green, burgundy and gold-striped
satin,; Mrs. E. L. Morey, in green-and-
gold brocade-satin; Mrs. John Inkster,
whose wide-skirted gown was of pink-and-
white brocade; Mrs. Hector Crawford,
who added to her smoke-grey tulle a
white lace stole; and Margaret McDonald,
whose black broderie Anglaise was worn
over pink taffeta.
The Commonwealth Bank Staff Ball
in aid of Prince Henry’s Hospital Aux-
iliaries was held at St. Kilda Town Hall.
Official guests were received by the presi-
dent of the ball committee, J. E. Loner-
gan, and Mrs. Lonergan, she wearing a
smoke-grey tulle gown trimmed with
cyclamen sequins and matched by a cycla-
men tulle stole. Among the dancers were
Mrs. Gordon McCracken, whose primrose-
yellow taffeta gown featured gold bugle-
bead trimming; Pat O’Connor in pastel-
pink, self-spotted satin, and her sister
Pam in white, self-spotted satin; Elaine
Young, whose gown was of Ming-blue
satin; Jennifer Lindupp, who wore white
embroidered Swiss organdie ; and Beverley
Murdoch, who wore a red velvet jacket
over her white broderie Anglaise frock.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. G. H. Adams, wife of the Vic-
torian president of the Viticultural
Society, received the guests at the society’s
dinner-party at Menzies’ wearing a pale-
tinted gown of champagne-satin with
a short matching jacket. Among the
guests were Mrs. R. C. Cooley (N.S.W.)
in a leaf-green satin frock; Mrs. W. B.
Chaffey (Adelaide), whose Chantilly laces
were silver-grey ; Mrs. Douglas Seabrook,
who contrasted her grey gown with a
Ming-blue velvet stole; Mrs. T. C. Sea-
brook, in grey chiffons.
Mrs. Eric Purbrick’s midnight-blue
crepe gown had matching sequin trim-
ming ; Mrs. W. M. C. Hackett (S.A.) wore
cognac-tulle over matching satin brocade ;
Mrs. C. McDiarmid wore pale-mauve
nylon; Mrs. W. H. Chaffey pale-pink
trimmed with silver-beaded motifs. Mrs.
Tom Hardy (Adelaide) chose heavy
cream guipure lace, Phyllis Parkinson
black chiffon.
☆ ☆ ☆
The million-pound exhibition of jewellery
staged for Red Cross in the Lower Town
Hall was really breathtaking. Among
exhibits was a beautiful emerald necklace
from the Hapsburg collection, and there
was a map of Australia outlined in
diamonds and topped by a diamond
crown. At the preview were Mr. and
Mrs. W. L. Russell-Clarke (she was
chairman of the organising committee),
Sir Robert and Lady Knox, Lady Angliss,
Vice-Admiral Sir John Collins and his
daughter Gillian, Lady Rowell and her
daughter Rosslyn, Mrs. H. R. Creswick,
Mr. and Mrs. John Carrodus, Lady Mc-
Connan, Col. Allan Spowers (chairman of
the Victorian division of Red Cross) and
Mrs. Spowers, the Louis Nelkens and
Mrs. Eccles McKay.
☆ ☆ ☆
The International Club Ball at St. Kilda
Town Hall celebrated the club’s 21st birth-
day. Mrs. Herbert Brookes, wearing a
gown of black tulle and a black velvet
jacket, received the official guests, who
included Minister of Immigration Harold
Holt and Mrs. Holt, she wearing a strap-
less blouse of heavy white guipure lace
with an ankle-length skirt of white satin ;
U.S. Consul-General Henry E. Stebbins
and Mrs. Stebbins; the Consul for
Austria, F, N. Berger and Mrs. Berger,
whose gown was of blue-and-pink-striped
satin; the wife of the Consul for Swit-
zerland, Madame Cattin; and Mr. A.
Ponsen, representing the Indonesian
Embassy.
☆ ☆ ☆
Noted at the opening night of “Re-
luctant Heroes” at the Comedy; Mrs.
Ken Luke in short black frock and mink
cape; Mrs. John Middleton, whose short
white taffeta bell-skirt was rucked into
lampshade effect; Mrs. John Newton, her
grey white-spotted organdie frock covered
with silver-fox furs; Kathie Reid, whose
full-backed coat was of gold brocade;
Betty Inwood, in ice-blue silver-
embroidered frock fashioned from an
Indian sari; and Mrs. John Mullaney, in
persimmon-red wool frock and matching
jet-embroidered stole.
Here is Nancy, younger daughter of
Mrs. J. Woodrow, of South Yana, and
the late Mr. Woodrow, who is ticket-
secret ary for the Navy dinner-dance
which will be held on November 5 (Oaks
Night) to swell the funds of the Flinders
Naval Depot Chapel. Nancy, who was
educated at Merton Hall, models,
arranges parades and does a little design-
ing for Douglas Cox.
Champagne and savories were served
at lavishly-decorated George’s prior to the
showing of the Peter Russell Royal Visit
Collection to 300 guests. Proceeds went
to the Royal Children’s Hospital and Mel-
bourne Legacy. President of the
Children’s Hospital, Lady Latham, was
present with Sir John and Legacy presi-
dent S. Neville. They were received by
Mr. John George and his wife, she wear-
ing a full-length coat of white and silver
brocade, and Reta Findlay, whose draped
gown of Parma-violet chiffon over deep-
rose chiffon had been designed by Peter
Russell.
The collection was notable for the
lovely fabrics and new colors. Daytime
hemlines were shorter than midcalf. New
colors were blue-grass, Mediterranean-
blue and cedar. Other colors used were
gunmetal, sherry, China-blue and black.
Garden-party and racewear ensembles
showed knife- and sunray-pleating in
chiffon, tissue-paper shantungs, surahs
and organza. Some tent-coats were of
black faille, worn over frocks of blue-
and-black-printed surah and cinnamon-
and-black-spotted pleated silk. Lame
was used for slim-skirted‘jacket-suits for
theatre and formal wear, and there was no
sparing of material for wide-skirted
evening-gowns—7syds. of dove-grey
tulle went into one evening-gown which
had a drape of sulphur-toned satin on
the skirt, which was further enhanced by
large handmade sulphur roses.
A voluminous skirt of quince net was
topped with a boat-necked bodice with
long tight-fitting sleeves; sleeves and
bodice were sewn with pearls, opalescent
sequins and rhinestones. In the grand
manner was an elegant gown of cream-
and-gold brocade, typical of many worn
by peeresses at the Coronation. The slim
skirt was slightly trained at the back and
diamente and pearl-embroidery filled in
the deep neckline and also formed short
cap-sleeves. For the young girl Peter
Russell designed a wonderful ball-gown
of sky-blue organza, the wide skirt having
large box-pleats, the fitted, strapless bodice
carrying scarlet and white flowers.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was bitterly cold at Caulfield on
Guineas Day, and spring fashions went
by the board. One racegoer, Mrs. lan
Miller, wore snow-boots and a leopard-
skin hat with her Parma-violet topcoat.
But there were some gay hats worn. Mrs.
John Teague’s scarlet feather-cap accom-
panied a full-length black Persian-lamb
coat. Lady Clarke, also in black Persian-
lamb, wore with it a Ming-blue close-
fitting velvet cap. Mrs. W. K. Burnside s
emerald-green felt hat sparkled with
jewelled sequins. A black barathea suit
trimmed with Persian-lamb was worn by
Mrs. Eric Fowler with a black velvet cap,
the brim outlined with rhinestones. Mrs.
Josh Pitt’s scarlet coat and matching
cloche brightened the dreary day, as did
Mrs. Arthur Laver’s shovel-hat of pink
straw.
syiDNier
Dressing at the Black and White Ball
was as spectacular as ever this year, the
prize for the loveliest gown going to Mrs.
Lennox Bode, whose white figured
organza with long sleeves was embroidered
with tiny pearls. Melbourne visitor Mrs.
Tom Carlyon was second in white_ tulle
with a bodice and draped side-pannier of
white lace. Prizes for the young girls
went to Marcia Moses, whose ice-white
organza had a trail of guipure flowers
over one shoulder, Jill Campbell in a
simple dress of white pin-spotted with
black, the bouffant skirt accordion-
pleated, and Diana Berkman, whose dress
had a nylon net skirt and a satin
bodice exquisitely embroidered with gold
and silver beads and large drop pearls.
Among the most striking dresses were
Mrs. Hector Livingston’s black-and-
white organdie, made in 2in. tucks all
over, the black bodice ending in Vandyke
points on the white skirt, and Mrs. Gordon
Johnston’s sheath dress of white grosgrain
embroidered all over with white sequins
and pearls and covered with a redingote
skirt of tulle.
Among the pretty colored dresses that
were worn was Mrs. P. Campbell’s navy
with its bodice-design of daisies and
opalescent sequins, Mrs. J. Daubeny’s
ballerina grey tulle blooming with huge
pink roses, and Caroline NihiU’s bouffant
pink organdie, its bodice and overskirt
embroidered with white flowers.
For the ball the Trocadero had been
transformed into a romantic Italian
garden, with white columns, ivy, camellias,
magnolias, illuminated statues and
fountains of cellophane. During the
evening eightsome reels were danced by
six sets, including one from the official
table in which Miss Northcott and her
fianc6, Squadron-Leader Russell Nash,
took part.
☆ ☆ ☆
Tessa Schell, winner of the Sun Aria
competition at the Sydney Eisteddfod this
year, has been studying singing for only
three years and it is only over the past
12 months that she has been heard in
choral societies, music clubs and the
operas (she was Dame Mary in “The
Flying Dutchman” and sang two small
parts in the short Australian operas). In
private life she is Mrs. J. Schell, of Vau-
cluse, and has two daughters, Anne, aged
10, and Kira, aged eight. Tessa says she
took up singing at first merely as a means
of personal development, but now it has
taken on such a serious proportion she
will devote more time to wider study but
will not go abroad. Photo, by Hugh
Spencer.
As a farewell presentation to the
members of the Opera Company of the
Victorian National Theatre Movement,
the Mercury Club presented Menotti’s
short comic-opera, “The Telephone,” at
the Mercury Theatre one lunch hour last
week. Marie Collier, Stefan Haag,
Justine Rettick, Erik Langker and the
Garnett Carrolls were there. Marie Tysoe
and Kevin Mills, of the Sydney Opera
Group, were the singers. Mr. L. Bennett,
chairman of the Mercury Club, said that
the club was looking for vice-presidents
who must be persons of distinction with
an interest in the club. If anyone would
donate £lOO, he said, it would show their
interest, and members would certainly
ipso facto regard them as persons of dis-
tinction.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Head-hugging” was a word that could
not be applied to any hat worn on Ladies’
Day at Randwick, for the bitter wind that
swept across the flat made hat-clutching
a major operation for the afternoon. Fur
coats and suits were worn, so, of course,
there was no new fashion-interest. Why
it was called Ladies’ Day was hard to
tell, for women notoriously like long
prices and the prices on Wednesday were
extraordinarily short. Tarien was 6-1 on,
Plato 10-9 and Friendly Feeling 11-8,
☆ ☆ *
Heard on a radio quiz session, this
reflection on the Australian standard of
culture: “Have you any. musical back-
ground? Listen to radio records, hit-
parades and all that?”
☆ ☆ ☆
Although many American women had
been on the committees of the Naughty
Nineties and Black and White balls, a
large crowd turned up at the meeting of
the American Women’s Club to hear Mr.
Max Afford speak on “Writing for Enter-
tainment” at the Pickwick on Wednesday
afternoon. Mr. Afford said that the novel
was the most satisfactory medium of
writing, for in radio one’s creations were
taken over by the public and one had to
consult a sponsor before “killing off a
character” in case that character turned
out to be popular with the public. In
writing for the stage so many people were
involved, said Mr. Afford, that life was
scarcely worth living. Mrs. Afford, who
accompanied her husband, was presented
with the white corsage of the club and
thanked for bringing him along as a
Speaker.
☆ * *
Pamela Page, leading (and only) woman
in the Royal’s new “Dial M for Murder,”
says she was given the name Pamela be-
cause her father was determined that she
should have a stage career, and he thought
the two “Ps” would look well in lights
“It was he who persuaded me to come
to Australia,” said Miss Page, “although
I have heavy responsibilities in England.”
“What responsibilities?” asks this Letter,
looking grave. “Well, I have four cocker
spaniels,” replies the leading lady, and
adds as an afterthought, “and I run a
repertory company, too!”
☆ ☆ ☆
The Contemporary Art Society has
found no less an authority than Socrates
to speak for straight lines and circles,
etc., as art-forms. The quotation is in-
teresting. Socrates speaks: “I do not
mean by beauty of form only such beauty
as that of animals or pictures, but straight
lines and circles and the plane of solid
figures which are formed out of them by
turning lathes and rulers and measures
of angles; for these I affirm to be not
only relatively beautiful like other things,
but they are eternal and absolutely
beautiful.”
The Music Circle of the English Speak-
ing Union celebrated its 21st birthday last
Thursday with a musicale and a party
at the Women’s Club. The guest-of-
honor was Mrs, F. H. Berryman, and
the programme was arranged by Mrs.
Harry Twigden, who has been musical
director since the inauguration of the
circle.
☆ ☆ ☆
Prefabricated houses apparently go
back a long way in Australian history,
for in the earliest account of Governor
Phillip’s voyage to Botany Bay it is writ-
ten that “the materials and framework
to construct a first temporary habitation
(for the Governor) had been brought
out from England ready formed. These
were landed and put together with as
much expedition as circumstances would
allow.”
☆ ☆ ☆
How to judge a good scone (apart from
eating it) was told by Mrs. Winifred
Savage when with Miss M. L. McDonald
she judged the scone-making contest at
David Jones’s last week. The shape,
she said, should be uniform, the color
even and the surface smooth; the scones
should double their bulk in the baking,
their texture should be medium-fine with
a tender crumb, their grain flaky and
their color creamy with no spots. The
winner of this contest was Mrs. F. A.
Harper, who represented the Royal Blind
Society. The prize, a 14-day tour of
blew Zealand for two people, therefore
goes to this charity, which will now stage
a new contest for it. Mrs. Savage said
that the fact that the competitors in the
scone-making were working not for them-
selves but for a charity gave the com-
petition a particularly happy atmosphere.


DEAL WITH THE “DEAN”
OF CLEVELAND
King of the Salad Bowl; One of the few
scrub farms in the Redlands District,
first quality red soil, excellent ground
husbandry, capable of the highest pro-
duction, water frontage, glorious view of
the bay, 4 B’roomed home, hot water,
septic, phone, share farmer’s quarters,
large packing shed, abundant water, El.
motor driving 2 5x5 Bulldozer pumps
from concrete dam, jack pump pumping
into dam, large quantity of main and
spray line, large list of plant, includes
Massey Harris Tractor, power spray, El.
tomato grader, 500 Myers lemons, | acre
trellis tomatoes, XJ acres beans. At
present being farmed on a share farm
basis and showing excellent returns.
Price £12,500.
E. C. DEAN & SONS, R.E.1.Q.,
CLEVELAND, QUEENSLAND
Phone Cleveland 7.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HERBERT LESLIE PATRICK GIPP
late of Eureka Street East Ballarat Vic-
toria —TAKE NOTICE that JEAN
MINNIE KATE GIPP has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 20 of 1947 on the ground
of your adultery with Thalma May Brown-
ing and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 18th De-
cember 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from R. L.
SANDERS, Solicitor, 0/- J- FOORD
HUGHES, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND
TO MORRIS CYRIL WATSON formerly of
18 Harlin Road Ipswich in the State of
Queensland but whose present whereabouts
are unknown Bus Driver. —TAKE NOTICE
that JOAN ELIZABETH WATSON has
commenced an Action against you for
dissolution of marriage numbered 191 of
1953 on the ground of desertion without
cause for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane within
thirty-eight days from the date of publi-
cation hereof You may obtain without
charge a copy of the Writ of Summons
and Petition from NICOL ROBINSON
FALLU & KIDD, Solicitors, 400 Queen
Street, Brisbane, Town Agents for DALE
& FALLU, Solicitors, Brisbane Street,
Ipswich. _ ,
DATED this fifth day of October. 1903.
—P. J. RUSSELL, Second Deputy Regis-
trar
mSpW
Extra luscious,
extra smooth.
Studded with
pieces of tasty
ginger. It's a dif-
ferent flavour.
d
scr
its
ft
m =
Small's new
Ginger Milk
Chocolate is so
delicious it dis-
appears fast!
Small's make
plain milk and
nut milk choco-
late, too. Choose
your favourite.
' ' w
* rf?
Mll-W
CHO
vi
m
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Dial ‘M’ for Murder”
Those people who do like a
murder when they’re out should
do very nicely with this current
offering at Sydney Royal. It’s
a nice job as murders go—a pair
of scissors in the victim’s back
plunged there with a desperate
flourish by the young woman he
is trying to strangle with a silk
scarf. By those standards, of
course, it’s not murder, but self-
defence, but the young woman’s
difficulty is to convince the cops
of that, the Law firmly believing
that she let the corpse into her
flat and stabbed him because he
was blackmailing her.
And it’s much more compli-
cated than that. The young
woman, who is worth quite a
few thousand quid, is married
to a personable young fellow
who hasn’t a bean with which
to bless himself. The simplest
money-making enterprise he can
cook up is the murder of his
wife, to which end he hires a
shady bit of work to drop in one
night and strangle the missus.
It’s all neatly arranged—the hus-
band goes out with another
character to a stag party for the
evening, rings his wife at 11 p.m.
to bring her to the telephone
which stands on a desk in front
of a window covered by heavy
drapes. The murderer, by then
standing behind the drapes, steps
forward and whips the scarf
around the wife’s neck and has
just about done her in when her
clutching hand lights on the pair
of scissors which she drives very
deftly into the centre of her
attacker’s back.
It would be comparatively
simple if that were the lot, but
the husband rushes home, con-
soles his wife, plants an indis-
creet letter from her boy-friend
in the corpse’s pocket, disposes
of the silk scarf and scatters a
few of his wife’s silk stqckings
about the place and then whistles
up the police. The cops very
naturally take the view that the
wife invited the blackmailer to
her flat, skewered him with the
scissors and scattered a silk
stocking or two about the place
to support her story of the
attack. The judge takes that
view, too, likewise the Home
Secretary when' an appeal is
made to him, so the young
woman is almost standing on the
trapdoor and her husband
almost has her bank-roll when
—but then that’s what the piece
is really about.
None of the foregoing should
detract from anyone’s enjoy-
ment of the play. The author,
Frederick Knott, makes no mys-
tery of any of it —of anything,
in fact, except the one slip in the
whole complicated set-up and the
way in which the inspector
latches on to it and sorts the
whole business out.
All of which makes a tiptop
thriller and tiptop night’s enter-
tainment. The doings are well
and carefully put together and
go along at a very good bat with,
despite the author’s open-handed
dealing with the audience,
several moments of highstrung
tension. Producer John Casson
makes the most of those qualities
in his part of the business, and
the cast —Hector Ross as the
husband, Pamela Page as the
wife, Grant Taylor as the bad
egg, Alan White as the boy-
friend and Ellis Irving as the
Inspector—do very well in theirs.
*t* ❖ ♦♦♦
Post and Kapell
Joseph Post got the Sydney
Orchestra away to a good start
on Saturday night at the Town
Hall with Vaughan Williams’s
“The Wasps” Overture, wherein
he achieved quite a vicious
buzzing fore and aft, with much
graceful playing in the middle
section. Next came Eugene
Goossens’s “Sinfonietta,” which
takes an inordinate time to say
very little, and unmelodiously at
that.
In Prokofieff’s Third Piano
Concerto William Kapell was
soloist The work is a study in
musical neurosis, with episodes
and themes jerking about spas-
modically like tadpoles in a
tank. But it did give Kapell a
a chance to display his astonish-
ingly nimble technique, and he
was backed up by an orchestra
under tight control and playing
with great verve.
Brahms’s Symphony No. 2 in
D major was the chief work. The
swift changes in rhythm, tempo
and accent in the graceful Alle-
gretto, the vitality and sunny
quality which is' its mainspring,
the lovely flowing lyricism —
these were brought out in play-
ing which fell away from good
standard only in the final move-
ment, which was taken at quite
a gallop.
♦> ❖ ❖
Walter Susskind
Walter Susskind, who is to
be the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra’s next impermanent
conductor, demonstrated his
versatility at the sixth and final
Youth Concert at Melbourne
Town Hall by directing Mozart’s
Concerto No. 23 in A Major
from the piano-stool. Mozart
provided the precedent for that,
however. A scintillating per-
formance resulted, and if Mr.
Susskind dropped the reins in
places in the quicker movements
there was superb co-ordination
in the lovely second movement.
Richard Strauss’s tone-poem,
Don Juan, got a swaggering in-
terpretation, and the battle of
the sexes really sounded like a
battle of the sexes. Even if the
conductor does no better than
his rendering of the Eroica
Symphony his Melbourne so-
journ will have been worth
while.
* *> ❖
“Hot Ice”
This well-timed ice-revue by
Armand Perren reached Bris-
bane at the same time as the first
breath of summer. The ingredi-
ents of the show are so well
mixed that when the audience is
ready to crave for the spoken
word Mr. Terry Scanlon appears
with some patter that is topical
and amusing if not witty. Best
of all is the polished way in
which one act melts into the
next.
Acrobatics, clowning and even
square-dancing on ice are enter-
taining, but two acts are out-
standing: “Silver Symphony” is
a fascinating display of rhythm
and agility by Joe Whitehouse
and Barbara Howe, and the re-
flection of their silvered bodies
in the glittering ice is quite
beautiful. The other act is a
sketch of passion in the Paris
underworld in which two Ameri-
cans, Farrar and Carter, bring
skating surprisingly close to
ballet and drama.
Some more rehearsal for
members of the corps-de-ballet
would improve things in the
bigger scenes, and more restraint
in the brass of the orchestra
would cool things down a bit.
Artbursts
Victorian Artists* Society
A few short years ago the
Victorian Artists’ spring exhi-
bition would have been a wav-
ing mass of gum-trees. It is now
a waving mass of pseudo-Picas-
sos. There are also the usual
imitations of Rouault with
suffering Christs and Agonies in
the Garden by the dozen. Percy
Watson weighs-in with an
arrangement of solids which
don’t look solid in space which
doesn’t look spacious, Mary
Mac Queen offers a caricature of
the French exhibition in “City”
and Gaston Erglis warbles
rather nicely an echo of
Vlaminck.
A few sincere notes are
struck amidst the babble. Esther
Paterson’s “Heatwave” is a
beach view which gives the
bright character of the scene
that was before her, and Mary
McLeish’s “Notre Dame” is nice
though sketchy. Julius Prieditis
gets some light into his “Wagga
Wagga,” Geoff Tyson, a Tas-
manian artist, picks up a note
from Nature in his “Gum-tree
Quintette,” and Robert Miller’s
“South Wharf” is direct and
simple. John Farmer has a deli-
cate still-life of flowers, and
John Bloomfield, the new mem-
ber for Malvern, has found time
amidst the political hurly-burly
to paint a nice bit of work in
“Spring Landscape.”
Myra Gould and Madeleine
Jorgensen in their two still-lifes
have obviously felt their subject,
as has Lena Skipper in her
“Landscape,” but why an artist
who can paint such a sensitive
bit of work should put it in a
frame more suited to a bath-
room-mirror is beyond the
present critic.
Talkies
“High Treason” (Sydney
Lyceum): English film-makers
have hit the jackpot again with
this smoothly-directed and
splendidly-acted thriller, the
theme a Communist plot to
sabotage England’s main power-
houses. It’s a good yarn with
the police and the MIS men
going quietly about their job
and piecing together the odd bits
of information to fit into a jig-
pattern of evidence. The climax
is a hair-raiser.
The film also makes a pretty
considerable statement about
rabid home-grown traitors and
the sentimental mugs who fall
for the promise of a warless
happy world once world-Com-
munism is established and the
British and American im-
perialists have been laid low,
Liam Redmond is the chief
MIS investigator, an old naval
commander; Anthony Nichols,
an M.P. who uses a respectable
front to help the enemy; Mary
Morris the chief Russian agent;
Kenneth Griffith a weak
young man who lets himself be
caught in the Red toils. They
turn in capital performances.
“The Changing of the Guard”
(Sydney Embassy): Here’s
another excellent English film, a
comedy with very witty dialogue
and bizarre situations, all carried
through on a high note of ban-
tering gaiety. The story hangs
on the misunderstandings
among several people when a
harassed Guardsman on sentry-
go at St. James’s Palace dumps
his fainting surreptitiously
in the house of a court official
near by.
Very much at home in this
type of comedy, Nigel Patrick
here turns in one of his most
polished performances. He is
aided and abetted by Valerie
Hobson, Peggy Cummins,
George Cole and , A. E.
Matthews.
“Tonight We Sing” (Sydney
Century): Musiclovers will revel
in this concert-piece, which has
Ezio Pinza portraying Chaliapin
and singing part of the Death
Scene from “Boris Godunov”
and Mephistopheles’s Cavatina
from “Faust” ; Isaac Stern play-
ing several violin pieces ; Metro-
politan soprano Roberta Peters
(as Elsa Valdine) singing an aria
from “Traviata” and, with the
tenor voice of Jan Peerce, who
does not appear, the love-duet
from “Butterfly.”
The projection of Peerce s
voice is the film’s only weakness
—it is never at full throttle and
is drowned by the soprano in the
duet and by Pinza and Miss
Peters in the trio from the Re-
demption Scene in “Faust.’
The story deals with the
struggle of entrepreneur Sol
Hurok to get a start in his pro-
fession, and his handling of such
famous people as Chaliapin,
Ysaye, the Belgian violinist, Elsa
Valdine, the tenor Gregory
Lawrence and Pavlova, played
by Tamara Toumanova.
“Trouble Along the Way”
(Sydney Mayfair): Gently senti-
mental comedy about the efforts
of a Father-Rector to save his
college from extinction by giving
it a financial transfusion through
football. The coach he selects
is tough John Wayne, whose
methods aren’t handicapped by
overfine scruples. It says much
for the deftness of the comedy,
and especially the work of
Charles Coburn as the humorous
old Rector, that the film suc-
ceeds in being mildly entertain-
ing despite several large slabs of
the American grid game.
“Anna” (Sydney Esquire):
The Italian actress Silvano Man-
gano is here torn between violent
passion for her no-good lover
and high-minded affection for
her second string, a decent ■
farmer. To escape the strain
she becomes a nursing sister in
the hospital of a religious order,
and it is here that some of the
best scenes are shot. Vittorio
Gassmann is the bad lad.


You're wrong Delaney
By BANT SINGER
CHAPTER I
P TrT , , , ,
UI your hands on the
table ~and keep em
i
You re in my place,
you don t argue. There s this
big detective giving me orders
and his mate is behind waiting
to jab me in the short ribs. I
got two jabs already to speed
u f’ / guess. Not speed my
* speed my brain to get
it that when these birds speak
l jump to it.
u * f ive if 11111 ® nn anc * P u *
my hands where he says,
I got no gun, I broadcast.
I get a jab that bends me
sideways.
Speak when I ask, not other-
wise, says this bird sitting across
the table. The light is blinding
me a bit, so I look down. My
hands are there, on the wood,
and I get a notion to clench them
and drive them across the table,
But there isn’t a chance, so I
shut my eyes for a second, till
the pain goes and I get some
sense back.
“Now answer me properly or
you’ll sweat,” he says.
He don’t know it, but I’m
sweating plenty inside as it is.
Maybe they know about Con
Martini and maybe they don’t,
and if they don’t it looks like
being bad for me. Still, you’re
in this game you’re on your own
and I got no help coming from
anyone. Con Martini can’t
help me, because he’s dead.
These birds that got me
at the table can’t help me,
because they don’t know who
killed Con and they want it to
be me. If it’s me it’s going to
save them a lot of trouble. Just
Con Martini, tfie cafe owner,
wouldn’t be much trouble, but
Con Martini with the racing
stable and the booze racket and
the way he goes for the big-time
women and the little girls, that’s
a hell of a difference. So he’s got
three bullets in him and laying
on his back in the police morgue
saying nothing, and I’m sitting
at this table sweating and maybe
have to do plenty talking.
“What’s your name?”
“Delaney.”
“All of it.”
“Denis Aloysius Delaney.”
The one behind me sniggers
and says, “Alowishuss! ” like it’s
something funny. The one
across the table don’t blink an
eye.
“They call you Denny, I
suppose?”
“Del, mostly.”
He’s got paper in front of
him and starts to write the
things I say. I worked once in
a printing-office and learned to
read the type. You got to read
it upside down and back to
front. So I can see him write
“Denis Alloysius Delaney, alias
Del,” Way inside me, where he
can’t see it, I get a laugh to see
the two l’s and to myself I say,
“The big hump can’t spell.” He
p U H s out a packet of cigarettes
and takes one and lights it. Next
thing 1 see a cigarette roll on the
table in front of me
“Smoke,” he says.
j i OQ k U p a t him. Catch his
eyes. They’re blank, like mine
when I fill a flush in a poker
g a me, but I don’t see any tricks
j n them. So I pick up the smoke
and put it in my mouth,
They’ve got everything out of
my pockets and I wait for him
to give me a light. He blows
smoke across the table, but he
don’t offer me a light.
“What’s your age?”
“Twenty-eight.”
“Occupation?”
That’s another inside laugh.
j been printer, sailor, bookie,
clerk, booze-runner, spieler,
bum. I can work three cards or
dice or Murrum marbles or
double-headed pennies. I been
shoddy-dropping and fruit-
picking and bouncer in night-
clubs. What’s my occupation?
“That’s right,” he says, “what’s
your occupation?”
I shoot another look at him.
He’s not so dumb. Mind-reader,
huh? You watch it, Del.
“I’m a printer. Do I eat this
smoke or just smell it?”
He throws patches at me.
“No smart stuff. You want
anything, ask for it properly,
How long since you done any
printing?”
“Thanks. Not for a fair
while.”
“You was working for Martini
over at St. Kilda?”
“That’s right.”
“What was you—waiter?”
“Sort of. Chucker - out,
mostly.”
“I see. Where do you live?”
“Nowhere, now.”
“Where did you live when you
worked for Martini?”
Here it comes. Watch it, Del.
“In the cafe. There was
rooms in back.”
“Chucker-out, huhl Good
with your hands? Strong?
Know how to handle fellers?”
Watch it, Del. When they
switch like that it could make
you say things.
“I was a commando in the
war.”
He pulls out a paper and
pushes it over to me. It’s a plan
of Con Martini’s cafd. A pencil
is shoved at me.
“Put a mark on the room you
had.”
It don’t matter what room I
had, far as I can see. I put the
mark. He takes the plan back
and puts it in his pocket.
“How long you work for
Martini?”
“About a year.”
“Before that?”
“I was up in Rochester, run-
ning a pool-room.”
“You ever do apy honest
work?”
“Pool-rooms is legitimate;
you get a licence and”
“Yes, yes. They’re legitimate,
Why’d you leave there?”
Is this bird going right back
t 0 my crad i e?
“It’s a dull town. Reckon I
got tired of it.”
“Police didn’t tell you to get
out?”
“No.”
“How long you know Martini
before you worked for him?”
“Not any. I was working for
him a week before I even see
him.”
“And you worked for him
about a year ”
“That’s right.”
“He pay you well? Don’t
scatter ash all over the place.”
“I got a tenner a week, and
there was the room and we fed
in the cafd. There was tips,
too.”
“You ever have a row with
him?”
Watch it, Del, watch it. This
is what he’s after. Maybe he
knows about Lily,
“Only once.”
“When?”
“About a month ago.”
“Big row?”
“Big enough.”
“Any hits?”
“Two. Feller named Peters
hit at me. I hit him.”
“Come on, come on. What
about it?”
“I knocked Peters cold.”
“Who’s he?”
“I ain’t sure. Sort of partner.
or something. Never saw much
of him.”
“What was the row about?”
Here it is again. Back to the
line. Bend away from it, then
come back to it. That’s the
way they work. Well, he wasn’t
going to get Lily into it, not if
I could help it, or Nugget
either.
“Look. It was private,
Nothing to do with Martini get-
ting shot. There was a girl in
it. It was about a girl. It was
private, see?”
I got ready for the jab, but it
didn’t come,
“Where was you on Wednes-
day night?”
He wasn’t kidding me. I
knew he’d come back to the row
when he was ready. Well, if he
wanted to play it that way it was
all right with me. I couldn’t
stop him, anyway. They’d go
their own way about it. Martini
was shot, and if they could make
it me that done it that would
suit them fine. So they’d come
to this row and then dodge away
from it and come back again,
because the row could open a
motive and—well, that was all
they needed to slap it on me.
“You mean all night?”
“That’s what I mean,”
“We start work about seven.
Getting the place ready. I was
there. I was in the cafd from
seven till around nine, helping
them get ready. Then I went to
my room and got into my
dinner-suit and went back. The
first people started to come
and” ——
“How long was you in your
room?”
“Maybe twenty minutes, no
more than half an hour.”
“Did you see Martini?”
“I never see him all night,”
“Well, go on. You went back.
What then?”
“Aw, it was just another night.
Wednesdays ain’t so busy. Not
like Fridays and weekends.
Well, I just stayed there, doing
my stuff.”
“And you didn’t see Martini?”
“No.”
“Was he in the cafe or any-
where about?”
“I don’t know. He had his
own rspms. Could be he was in
them.”
“This character —Peters. Was
he about?”
“Not that I noticed. He could
have been.”
“I see. You say Martini get-
ting shot had nothing to do with
this row you had?”
Here it was again. Blast the
row. What the hell did I tell the
truth for when he asked if there
was a row? I could of easy said
no.
“Look. If anyone shot
Martini it wasn’t nothing to do
with the row.”
“Somebody shot him, all
right. Three times. Why don’t
you tell us about the row.”
“Wouldn’t do no good to tell
you. It wasn’t anything to do
with Martini getting shot.”
“Look, son!” Who was he
kidding? “You work in
Martini’s joint. Martini gets shot
Wednesday night. A cleaner
finds him Thursday morning.
The police round-up everybody
that works in the joint. There’s
one missing. That’s you. We
pick you up tonight, Friday,
here in Black Springs, over three-
hundred miles from the scene.
You’re broke, you got no
luggage, you ain’t had a shave.
You were in that pool-room
when we hit it. When we take
names you give us a phony name
and a phony address. We check
the address. Pretty soon we
blow out your phonies and we
find who you are. Martini gets
shot, you’re the only one
missing, we gather you in here.
What you think we ought to
do? Turn you loose?”
If it hadn’t been for going
into that pool-room. How was
I to know they were going to
raid it? Maybe five-six pool-
rooms in this Springs town and
I got to be in the one they raid.
I got to be tired and cold and
hungry, so when they come to
me in the line-up I’m pretty dead
upstairs and give them a line
they can see is crook. I got to
be that way and make them
curious and get to rooting
around and here it is. I’m Del
Delaney, and they got me here
and they hope it’s me put the
bullets into Martini. Maybe
I’d have done it, too, if he’d
given me cause, like he give some
people. Maybe I got to take the
knock for whoever done it.
Maybe I got to take the
knock for Nugget. It’s guineas
to gooseberries Nugget done it
and maybe Lily appreciates that.
But she don’t know about me
sitting in the police-station at
Black Springs, getting myself
done over by this big hump and
his jabbing mate. Maybe she
don’t even think about me,
wherever she is. Maybe being
tired and cold and hungry don't
mean a thing to Lily, because
she don’t know. Nugget knows.
You bet he knows. Not about
me but about Martini and the
bullets. Somebody ought to
wise Nugget about these police-
stations and keep him away. It’s
not so good, with the table
spinning dnd the light burning
into your head and the big
detective’s voice burning holes in
you, and him always coming
back to the row with Martini
and Peters over Lily. You got
to grip the seat with the back
of your knees, and stay awake
and listen and watch him and
steer him off lhat line because
there’s nobody in it for you but
you. You got to keep telling
yourself it’s just you and play
him along and watch him,
because there’s only you and
him. You’re in this game you’re
on your own, and you got to
stop falling off the chair they
give you. You just got to stay
on this chair . . .
So they pick me up, I guess,
and the jabber is wiping my face
with a wet towel, and the big
one that done all the talking
says, “You look like you’ve had
it. So we’ll call it a day and talk
some more tomorrow,”
He gets up. I stay there spread
across the table and try to get
my head working, because it
isn’t finished yet, not by a mile.
I got to get out of this Black
Springs and quick, but I got no
chance yet. So we’ll talk some
more tomorrow. Well, that’s all
right with me. Guess I can wait
here till tomorrow.
A jailer comes in and looks at
me, and this big detective says,
“Get him something hot. Soup
would be good. Or toast with
plenty butter and' hot tea.
Gimme them keys. I’ll take him
to the cage while you get the
soup. And don’t forget the
toast.”
They got me on Itoast, all
right. So the jabber gets a hand
under my arms and I get up and
we follow the big one. It’s a
one-man cell and I fall on the
bunk and feel it good, with the
tiredness going out of me and
no light to hurt my eyes,
“Don’t you ever say any-
thing?” I ask the jabber.
He looks at me and sucks his
teeth. He goes out through the
door, looking like he's disap-
pointed because he can’t jab me
just then. This big detective
leans against the *door. We
don’t say anything.
The jailer brings me soup in
a tin-bowl and a tin-plate with
toast and a tin-mug full of strong
tea and puts them on the locker
by the bunk. The cage must be
on the outer wall because I can
hear the wind howling outside in
the night, through the bars in the
high window. I take a look at
the window.
This big hump laughs and
says, “Forget it, Delaney. Pack
that soup in and take a sleep.
See you later.”
He goes to the door, stops and
says, “Oh, I forgot. Here.”
He throws three cigarettes on
the bunk, takes three matches
from a box and puts them down.
Then he tears off enough of the
striking part of the box and puts
it with the matches.
“That’s against regulations,”
says the jailer from outside
where he’s watching.
“Go to hell,” says the big
hump.
“I don’t sleep good some-
times,” I says. “There was some
pheno-barbs in that stuff they
took from me.”
“No pheno-barbs,” he says.
“Go the soup.”
He went out and the jailer
locked the door. So I go the


soup. Outside the wind howls
past the jail.
CHAPTER II
YOU ever try running your
own movies? You run them
in your brain, when it’s dark
and you are alone. I got two
kinds, what has happened and
what I want to happen. So I lie
down, in the one-man cell in the
cage, and let the soup warm me
and feel the tiredness run out
of my fingers and toes. But I
don’t feel sleepy, and they got
my pheno-barbs and all I got is
this cigarette and my mind-
movies. So I dabble around,
like one of them old geezers
spending pennies in a fun-parlor
to see what he can find, and a
mix-up of pictures comes in my
mind. For a while they flash
around and there’s a sort of stew
of things like Cooler Carrol
knocking out that colored
from ’Frisco in the fourth
round, and me wrestling with
Lola Martin on the bed and
using her garters to tie her hands,
and Comedy Prince’s white blaze
shooting out to take the lead
and win me a hundred and
twenty frogskins, and a man I
met in Carlton, and Lily walking
into Con Martini’s and
But I don’t want no pictures
about Lily. If I have pictures
about her I got no chance to
sleep. So I bring up the one
about Nugget and me in New
Guinea. Clear as clear I see my-
self lying in the brush above
that creek, with the mud all over
me and the rain coming down
and the heat and the smell of
the mud and the jungle. I hear
the twenty-five pounders way be-
hind me whoofing away at the
ridge over my head and the
smothered bangs when the shells
go off in the mud and kunai-
grass. Clear as clear I feel the
shock wheij I look round and
it comes to me the rest of the
gang has pulled back and I’m
left behind and I can smell Japs
above me and over to the right.
So I start sliding down to the
creek, keeping low, and a wood-
pecker opens up somewhere and
I see the mud jump right under
my nose and I do a sort of flat
spring sideways to where there’s
cover in some brush and the
woodpecker pecks and I get it
in my right leg. There’s two
bullets, close together, in back
of my thigh and I’m kind of sick
and scared and let out a yell and
pull myself behind a bush and
lie there and bleed and try to
take it, because it’s good-night
to Denis Delaney.
I’m lying there crying like a
kid because it’s a hell of a way to
die, down in the mud like a sick
pig, and clear as clear I hear
somebody whisper, “Fancy tryin’
to get a livin’ sellin’ camphor-
sacks in this country!”
I screw my neck around. All
I see is this bush I’m lying in
and the blood running out of
my leg and getting mixed up
with the mud. So I conclude I
better try stopping the blood and
reach for my field-dressing and
the whisper comes, “Keep still,
you bloody fool. You want that
Jap gun rakin’ down here?”..*
So I know there must be some-
body, after all, and I whisper,
“Where are you? Who is it?”
“Pull your head in and keep
quiet—they’re right over us,”
says this whisper, and it’s the
jungle grass whispering on my
left.
So I keep quiet and get my
hands down and clamp them
round the leg where the bleed-
ing is and squeeze tight. We
lie there for a long time. It gets
quiet up on the ridge and the
guns way off slow down. Then a
man jumps right out of the kunai
and leaps across and falls on
me, and the woodpecker opens
up again and the mud starts
jumping and I can hear the
bullets chipping and plopping.
The man rolls me over like I see
the firemen do in their training
and he gets under me and heaves
and throws me down the slope
and hurtles after me and grabs
me again and jerks me over a
mossy old log and falls on me
again and pushes my face in the
mud, and there’s this wood-
pecker and a lot of rifle-fire and
a grenade burst just short of
the log and this man lying on
me grunts, “Gripes, I didn’t
think you was so heavy.”
I can feel the leg hurting and
I dig my face out of the mud
and get to wondering how long
it takes to croak from bleeding,
and I says to the back of his
head, “You better get going, pal,
because of my leg. You stay
they get us both.”
Then the head turns round
and in among the mud and
sweat and rain on his whiskers
it’s Nugget. Clear as clear I see
him grin in a hard sort of way
he had.
“You’ll live to do time yet,”
he says. “Hell, listen to that,
will you?”
After a while it dies down, and
Nugget gets me over his shoulder
and carries me down the ridge.
And clear as clear I see it like
it was that day. Four of the
gang coming across the creek,
two in front with tommy-guns
and two behind with rifles slung.
And like it was that day the
two grab me quick and tie my
legs together, and, with Nugget
holding me by the shoulders,
they pick me up and we go
across that creek and up through
the mud and brush on the other
side and so I’m back with the
gang.
And just before they put me
on the stretcher to take me
down where the ambulance-
jeep can pick me up I says to
Nugget, “One of these days I’ll
get even for this,”
“Forget it, kid,” he laughs.
“If I’d known it was you I
wouldn’t have come. I thought
it was General MacArthur or
Maxie Falstein or one of them
big boys.”
“All right, you mug,” I says.
“But I’ll square it, somehow.”
“Buy some camphor-sacks
after the war,” he says.
And in this mind-picture I
see him standing there and me
going away on the stretcher and
watching him and thinking how
he might have got it himself,
coming in there for me, and
feeling the stretcher jerk and
hurt my leg and making up my
mind I’d pay him back, if we
ever got out of it and got home
again.
Well, we both got home all
right, and maybe me being here
and Martini dead and the police
keeping me and working on me
was paying Nugget back, be-
cause the longer they kept at me
the more chance Nugget and
Lily had, and maybe this was it
—the paying Nugget back, I
mean. The soup was all through
me now, and I was tired of mind-
pictures, and turned over, think-
ing there was two cigarettes for
the morning. You mug, I tell
myself, looking at the wall of
this one-man cell, you got to
forget Lily that way. She’s not
for you. So I shut my eyes and
see them big purple lights you
see when you’re tired and nearly
asleep and they come up out of
the blackness and swell and fade
and come up again. And I start
forgetting Lily.
In the morning this jailer
brings me a razor and stuff and
stands close beside me while I
scrape my face.
“I like being private,” I tell
him.
“It’s regulations,” he says
back.
So he stands by and I say, real
sad, “What’s life, anyway?” and
make to slice my throat open,
and he jumps in ‘and grabs my
hand. Then he sees my eyes and
lets go and steps back and says,
“You won’t be so full of jokes
when they put a rope around
your neck.”
“Who told you about it?”
“Get on with the shaving,” he
says. “I can’t be here all day.”
I get on, and after that he
takes me to the shower and then
marches me back to the cell, and
I can’t get what he says about
the rope out of my head, I’m
scared. It’s not good to wake
up in a cell on a cold morning
and have jailers talking about
ropes. I’m scared till he brings
me some porridge and a couple
of fried tomatoes with an egg in
them. I’ve got them inside me
doing good and I’m smoking
the second-last cigarette when
the door opens and this big
detective is back again.
“Come with me, Delaney,” he
says.
“You ain’t got me hung yet,”
I says.
“That’s right,” he says, quiet,
and him being quiet scares me
some more, because they’re quiet
they’re confident.
So we go back to the same
room in the police-station and
he sits at the table again and I
sit in the same chair.
“You have a good night?” he
asks. There’s only him and me
now, and he can’t reach across
the table to jab me,
“Oh, I did all right. But then
I wasn’t fretting like you,” I
crack at him.
In the morning I see he’s
bigger than I thought, six feet
two and about two hundred and
twenty pounds. His hair is
turning grey and it’s going away
from his forehead. He’s got
these bushy eyebrows, and his
blue eyes is way in under them,
so you got to look mighty close
to get a clue what he’s thinking.
His eyebrows is black as ink
and they sit there on his face like
a couple of them black thorn
hedges on a cliff. He’s got a
long nose with a bulb on the
end, and his mouth is thin and
wide, and under it there’s this
chin that looks like a sort of
second cliff under the craggy
face. Only sometimes you catch
a change on the whole cliff —
eyebrows, eye, movement in his
lips—which makes you think
he’s sort of sad and a whole lot
tired,
“So you reckon I’m fretting?”
he says, and his voice is sort of
sad and tired.
“Yair,” I says. “You’re fret-
ting. Because you thought you
had somebody for Martini
and”
“Where’s Peters? This charac-
ter you knocked out?” he barks,
and he isn’t sad or tired no
more.
That would rock you—only
you’re wise to him now. Him
and the way he darts around
with his questions. So they’ve
lost Peters. Now wouldn’t that
rock you—and them, too, come
to think of it. Or have they lost
him? Watch it, Del. Peters?
I can’t help laughing. I get
up and look under the table and
behind the door and all around,
and I keep on laughing. Peters!
“You got everything out of my
pockets last night,” I says, still
laughing. “Was Peters among
the stuff?”
He leans his right elbow on
the table and puts his face in his
hands and watches me. His eyes
are stone-cold and gleaming and
he watches me. You have any-
one watch you like that and be
where I was and you stop laugh-
ing. So I sit in the chair again
and look at him.
“Peters?”
“That’s right,” he says.
“How would I know where
he is?”
“You could know where he’d
be likely to go in smoke.”
I think of Peters. I only
knew the coot a little. There
was the time Martini put him on
to me —that time when I bucked
Martini over Lily—and I
knocked him cold. That don’t
make us friends any more than
we was before. He was a long,
lean, knify fellow, and when I
hit him he folded up like an old
sock thrown against the wall.
Because when I hit a man he
stays hit; what they taught me
in the commandos. I sit there
and think about Peters and feel
him on the end of my fist, when
it sank into his button, but I
hardly know the coot. Where
would a long, lean knify coot go
into smoke? Why didn’t Mar-
tini give me the walk then?
What was Peters in his racket?
How in hell would I know
about him?
“I don’t know anything about
Peters,”
This big detective don’t say
anything. He just sits there,
breathing heavy, and the cliff
goes soft again.
“Look,” I tell him, “Peters
is nothing to me. I don’t know
where he is, I tell you. It don’t
mean nothing to me.”
He leans forward and shoots
a hard look at me.
“That fair-dinkum?” he asks.
“It’s fair-dinkum,”
He sighs and sits back again,
and for a minute I thought he
was going to sleep, way he
looked.
I been waiting all the time for
him to ask me why I shot
through from St. Kilda and
come to this Black Springs. It’s
funny he don’t ask me that. It’s
got nothing to do with Martini,
but it’s a whole lot to do with
Lily and Nugget, and I don’t
want to tell him. But it’s funny
he don’t ask me, because they
got me and they know me and
they know about Martini, and
to them it ought to tie up, Mar-
tini full of bullets and me over
here in Black Springs. It’s got to
tie up if they want to pin Martini
on me, so why don’t he ask me
why I shot through? I haven’t
got much of a story, no story
at all, when he asks me, because
they can blow out any story
(Continued on page 30)
"Look, son! Martini gets shot Wednesday night. The police round-up everybody that works
in the joint. There’s one missing. That’s you.”


Born 1820 —
t fill going strong.
u
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.; SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JUM26B.IS
Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
OSUUJVAN. '/
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants.
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“protecta” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jaCKSUI”* BRISBANE
OUR NEW SELECTION
Dave in Love
by
"STEELE RUDD"
(Arthur H. Davis)
"PLOUGHING and sowing all
over. A hundred acres of
the plain-land under wheat and
light showers falling every week.
Dad’s good luck was continu-
ing, Yet we were sharing other
misfortunes freely enough. The
children were all down with
measles, Sarah with face-ache,
Joe with a broken rib (a draught-
horse broke it for him—Joe had
sandy-blight, and one morning
approached the wrong end of a
horse with the winkers), and
Dave was the victim of a fatal
malady.
Dave was always the unlucky
one. When he wasn’t bitten by
a snake or a dog he was gored
by a cow or something. This
time it was a woman. Dave was
in love. And such love! We
could see it working in him like
yeast. He became affable,
smiled all day long and dis-
played remarkable activity. He
didn’t care how hard he worked
or whose work he performed.
He did anything, everything and
without help. He developed a
passion for small things, trifles
he had hitherto regarded with
contempt, purchased silk hand-
kerchiefs and perfume and con-
versation-lollies at the store, and
secreted them in the pockets of
his Sunday coat, which he left
hanging in his room. Sarah
would find them when dusting
the coat and hawk them to
Mother, and they’d spend an
hour rejoicing and speculating
over the discovery. Sarah never
allowed any dust to settle on
Dave’s Sunday coat,
Dave went out every night. It
amused Joe. He would be on
pins and needles till supper was
ready, then he’d bolt his food
and rush off to saddle a horse,
and we wouldn’t see him again
till breakfast-time next morninn.
For more than a year Dave
rushed off every night. “Damn!
Look at that horse,” Dad used
to say when he’d be at the yard.
Then he’d think hard, and begin
again when he met Mother.
“This night work’ll have t’ stop,
or there won’t be a horse about
the place fit t’ ride. What the
devil the fellow wants chasing
round the country for every
night, I don’t know, I’m sure.”
Dad knew well enough.
“Well,” Mother would say
good-naturedly, “you were just
as bad y’self once. Father.”
“Never, woman!” with virtu-
ous indignation. ‘7 never left
a horse hanging to a fence night
after night to starve.”
But there the matter always
ended, and Dave continued his
courting without interruption.
It was Fanny Bowman, of
Ranger’s Rise, Dave was after.
She was twenty, dark, fresh-
complexioned, robust and rosy,
a good rider, good cook and a
most enterprising flirt.
Tom Black, Tom Bell, Joe
Sibly and Jim Moore all had
sought her affections unsuccess-
fully. And young Cowley
climbed into a loft one night and
would have hanged himself with
the dog-chain because of her
inconstancy, only a curlew
screeched “so awfully sudden”
just outside the door that he
rushed out and fell down six-
teen steps and “injured himself
internally.”
Fanny Bowman was a dairy-
maid —mostly neat and natty
and nice. But there were times
when she didn’t look so nice.
She had frequently to go into
the yard and milk fifteen and
twenty cows before breakfast;
and a glimpse at her then—
especially in wet weather, with
a man’s hat on, her skirts
gathered round her waist, bare-
footed, slush over her ankles,
slush on her arms and smeared
on her face —wasn’t calculated to
quicken a fellow’s pulse. But,
then, it wasn't at such times that
Dave passed judgment on her,
any more than the city swell
would judge his Hetty while her
hair was on the dresser and her
teeth in a basin.
Some Sundays Dave used to
bring Fanny to spend the after-
noon at our place, and Jack
Gore very often came with
them. Jack Gore was Bowman’s
man, a superior young fellow,
so Bowman boasted, one that
could always be depended upon.
He took his meals with the
family and shared the society of
their friends, went to church
wuh them, worked his own
horse in their plough and was
looked upon as one of the
family.
Dave didn’t look upon him
as one of the family, though. He
was the fly in Dave’s ointment.
Dave hated him like poison.
When it was time to leave
Dave had almost to break his
neck to reach Fanny’s side in
time to lift her into the saddle.
If he were a moment late Gore
would lift her. If he were slow
at all in mounting his horse
Gore would coolly ride off with
Fanny. If he didn’t happen to
be slow in mounting Gore would
ride on the near side of her and
monopolise the conversation. He
monopolised it in any case.
Mother and Sarah used to
talk about Jack Gore.
“If / were Dave,” Sarah
would say, “I’m blest if I’d have
her carrying on with him the
way she doss.”
“But Fanny only means it as
a sister,” Mother would answer
in palliation.
“Does she indeed! Dave’s an
old fool to bother about her at
all, if y’ ask me!” Sarah was
developing a keen interest.
Jack Gore left Bowman’s ser-
vice one morning. He left it
suddenly. Bowman sacked him,
and Mrs. Bowman talked to the
neighbors about him with the
wrath of an insulted mother.
“The cheek of him,” she said
to Mother, “to think he was
good enough for Fanny! Why,
we wouldn’t have kept him a
day if we’d thought—if we’d
even dreamt. Fanny, indeed!”
But she spoke highly of Dave.
She moved Mother to tears of
admiration for him. And
Mother couldn’t resist telling
Dave all that was said. Dave
went to Bowman’s a little earlier
that night, but returned quite
unexpectedly and went to bed
in a bad humor.
A change came over Dave.
He ceased to smile, and scarcely
did any work, and never
brought Fanny to see us on
Sundays. At last Dave met
Fanny on her way to the rail-
way-station one day, and when
he came home he went straight
to the album and took out her
photo and jumped on it.
Jack Gore had been away
from Saddletop for several
months, when—“Girls are more
of a trouble than boys,” Mrs,
Bowman said despondingly to
Mother one evening at the gate.
‘ Boys is nothing; they can
always take care of theirselves.
But girls!”—— And she shook
her head.
Jack Gore returned to Bow-
man’s one day and neither Bow-
man nor Mrs. Bowman
attempted to chase him away.
Work was suspended for
twenty-four hours, and at mid-
day a tired, dust-covered par-
son came to their door astride a
poor horse and got down and
married Jack Gore to Fanny,
It was a quiet wedding.
When they heard of it Mother
and Sarah whispered things to
one another, and Dad thought
of Dave.
“Thank God! ” he said, “The
horses’ll have a chance t’ get
fat now!”
PRESENT
October and uncertain spring
Trims the park to English green.
Daisies open on the grass.
Lovers have absorbing eyes.
Somewhere heaven’s all the time.
We have heaven just for now.
Sing, birds, sing.
November and the very spring
Moves the streets with soft white
rain.
Sunlight doubles in their glass.
Lovers share umbrella’d light.
Somewhere heaven’s, all the time.
We h rve heaven just for now.
Sing, birds, sing.
December and its summered
spring
Dyes the sea to surfing green.
Picnics flower on the grass.
Lovers face their love to smile.
Somewhere heaven’s all the time.
We have heaven just for now.
Sing, lirds, sing.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.
When Dad Got
Bucked Off
AirRS. TALTY stood- at the
door of her humpy looking
out. She was watching Dad
and Cranky Jack, on their way
to the railway-yards with fat
pigs, about to camp for dinner
in the Gap near Tally’s.
Dad rode across to the humpy,
got off, and asked for a billy of
hot water to make tea with.
Mrs, Talty filled the billy and
would have handed it up when
he was mounted, but Dad did
not allow that—he always re-
fused assistance in such small
things. So he waved her off,
and, seizing the billy, held it
with the reins in his left hand.
Scrambling up clumsily, he spilt
the water over mare’s neck,
scalded her badly and made her
buck right on to Mrs. Talty.
Then he fell off and made a
fool of himself.
That was how Dad happened
to be in bed when a lot of people
came to the house one day.
Dad was very bad, bruised
all over, and the pain made him
groan all day long, and when-
ever Mother smeared oil on him
he yelled till he could be heard
over at Regan’s. And bad
temper! If any of us poked a
head into his room and asked
meekly how he was he bellowed
“Clear out!” We always
obeyed. And when we didn’t
go in to ask how he was he
roared out to know where the
devil we all were, and accused
us of having no more sympathy
in our compositions than a lot
of blackfellows. He said we
were only hanging round, wait-
ing for him to die.
Dad was a difficult old man
to please when he wasn’t well.
Joe reckoned if he put the same
energy into prayer that he put
into profanity he would never
be sick.
Nearly every female in the
district called to inquire how
Dad was. At least they made
that their excuse. They didn’t
care how Dad was. It mattered
little to them whether he lived
or died. They came only to
yarn and drink tea, and tell lies
about themselves and libel
absent friends. “So sorry,” they
said, and made mouths and ugly
faces about it. Women always
make themselves ugly when
they wish to appear sympathetic.
It’s, a way they have of carry-
ing conviction.
None ventured into the room,
though, to see Dad. They ques-
tioned Mother, then sat down
and sighed and took their hand-
kerchiefs out. Fifty times and
more Mother had to relate how
the accident happened, and
every time she came to the
bucking-off part Dad voice
would break through the wooden
wall: “Dammit, I tell y’ again
I wasn’t bucked off! Wasn’t on
the mare.” And Mother would
get confused and turn all colors.
And some of the ladies would
smile, and some wouldn’t. Then
rounds of heavy groans would
come from Dad, and Mother
would shiver on the verge of
nervous collapse lest he should
break out in a passion and yell
violence at the company.
Mother was unhappy. She
wished the visitors had stayed
away. But they didn’t notice her
discomfiture. They sipped tea
and ate up all the scones and
cake Sarah carried in, then be-
came boisterously convivial —
screamed and took possession
of the house. They forgot there
was a suffering invalid on the
premises, and no one heard Dad
groan any more, no one heard
him growl savagely “Blast them,
blast! Why the devil don’t they
shut up and go home?” No one
but Mother. And she ran in to
pacify him.
The bedlam eased off a little,
and a political discussion com-
menced on the general-election
that was approaching.
Mrs. Brown asked Mother
whom Dad intended voting for,
(Continued on page 30)


me huUHfewMil ROUND THE WORLD flap
&
' ■•• f
& \% y • •
' ••:%*•■. >• ?••:•.
mm
m
ill
il
.
B •;:
m
11
ai
i
#
'< ij
*
m
i
m
m
\
%
61
fesssr
SSS
X
~4
; ••' >■■■•:• •-
N::
m
... Thanks to * BRITISH AIRLINES
Travel-wise people know that friendly British service makes all the difference
all the way on round-the-world trips. concession ticket
covers your globe encircling tour—you can fly eastward or westward—see a
dozen different countries in the old world and the new—
break your journey anywhere at no extra air fare.
fd
f
AUSTRALIA’S OVERSEAS AIRLINE
.
Qantas Empire Airways Limited (Incorporated in Queensland)
df
*QANTAS
* 8.0.A.C.
* BCPA
See the Orient, the Medi-
terranean, Europe, North
America and the Pacific.
Dollar allowance for
travellers through the
U.S.A. Consult your
Travel Agent or QANTAS
or BCPA.
BAS 7
FLY
THESE
B
R I
TISH A I R L I
' '
N E
S -
QAMTAS, B, O. A. C. AMD BC P A


The ft W way to
#
shaving £
<<•*!
■N
(jSBP K'V
*9)
Gillette
0® DISPENSER
\\
\v
\\
i
*•*
&
m
A new blade
in a flash!
I J
A
%
Speed up your shaving and end the used blade
nuisance at the same time! The new Gillette 10-
Blade Dispenser gives you'factory-sharp blades ready
for instant use. Sharpest edges in the world com-
pletely oil protected by new exclusive Gillette
process. Simply stow away your used blades in the
built-in compartment at the back.
and. ..a place to
hold used blades!
and it costs you nothing extra
... you pay only for the blades /
blue
GHlett
blades
SI7
SEE!
NEW 10-Blade
DISPENSER ... a'9
10 Blade PACKET ... 3/9
5 Blade PACKET . . . 1/10*
20 Blade DISPENSER .. 7/6
'GOOD MORNINGS' BEGIN WITH GILLETTE
Missing Friends
WOULD any person knowing the where-
abouts of the children (including Charles
Fry and Stanley Fry, who resided at
North Brisbane in 1941) of ELIZABETH
JANE FRY deceased, once of Melbourne,
and sister of Richard Corbett late of 71
William Street, Donaghadee, County Down,
Northern Ireland, Retired Gardener, com-
municate with CHAMBERS, MeNAB &
CO., Solicitors, 33 Queen Street, Brisbane.
ESTATE OF THOMAS CONDRON
Will EDWARD JOHN CARROLL who was
born on 14th April 1916 tie son of
Thomas Carroll and the late Ethel
Kathleen Carroll, (formerly Condtbn)
please communicate with Hie PUBLIC
TRUSTEE. 419 Collins Street. Melbourne.
SEND-OFF TO SUTTONS
by marqcuet Bayliss
I - a HEN first the news was
\\ J circulated in the district
VV that t* l6 Suttons were
leaving for a farm in the
south, Peter Harper was
approached to arrange the send-
off.
As long as anyone could
remember, old Peter was the one
who collected, bought the
presents and made the presenta-
tions.
Peter was in his element when
there was a send-off. The
Suttons’ departure gave him full
scope for his energies. Bill
Sutton had been reared in the
district, and everyone was
anxious that he should have a
fitting send-off. Mrs. Bill was
as popular as her husband: she
never refused her help when
there was a collection for a
worthy cause or a cake to be
baked for a supper.
Peter, as he went from farm
to farm in his ancient touring
car, had only one refusal; and
that was from Smithers at the
crossroads, who was never known
to give to anything or to attend
any function that entailed
expense.
When Peter had finished his
canvas of the farms he had a
sum sufficient to buy a smart
travelling-bag for Bill and a
silver teapot for his wife.
Short and stout, with a jovial
red face and thin grey hair, Peter
had all the details worked out.
He gave particulars wherever he
called.
“Bill and his family leave on
the twenty-second. We’ll have
the send-off a week before. On
the fifteenth. It’ll take the form
of a dance. Mrs. Jones has
promised to preside at the piano ;
and Mrs. Turner and Miss
Blarney will bring their violins.
I’ll be the m.c. as usual.’'
r T'HE fifteenth was a moonlight
night. All roads led to the
hall that sheltered in the bush a
quarter of a mile from the cross-
roads. Cars and trucks raised the
dust as they made their way to
the hall. By the time the festi-
vities were about to begin, the
vehicles before the hall were
spread out right to the edge of
the scrub.
The ladies took heaped plates
to the supper-room at the side of
the hall. The men tied up their
dogs and repaired to the rear of
the building.
The supper dishes set on the
table, the ladies took off their
wraps and seated themselves on
the forms around the hall. The
musicians took their places on
the platform. All was ready for
the dance to begin.
“Where’s Mr. Harper?” said
Mrs. Jones, as she sat in her
black lace frock at the piano.
Then the whisper went
around the hall;
“Bill Sutton’s presented two
kegs of beer.”
The ladies waited. The music
struck up as a hint to the men,
but nobody came from the happy
circle in the scrub at the rear
of the hall.
The ladies gossiped for a
while.
When three-quarters of an
hour had gone, Mrs. Jones stood
up and faced the figures in their
best frocks in the body of the
hall.
“Well, ladies, I reckon we
ought to teach them a lesson.”
“Hear, hear,” came a few
voices.
“But what can we do?” said
little Mrs. Green, whose husband
gave her so little money that she
still wore the pink-flowered dress
that had been in her trousseau
six years before.
“We can go to the new tennis-
courts at the school,” said Mrs.
Jones, tall and stately in her
black lace. “We can turn on the
lights and enjoy ourselves. If
the men don’t want our com-
pany, we can do without theirs.
All those in favor”
“Yes!” came a shout.
Most hands were raised. Some
timid souls demurred, but were
quickly overruled.
“The school’s two miles
awav,” said Mrs. Green.
Mrs. Jones looked grim.
“We’ll take the cars.”
There was a titter.
But Mrs. Green was still
anxious. “What about the
men?”
“They can walk,” said Mrs.
Jones. “They’re not worrying
about us. Why should we worry
about them?”
“What will we do with the
supper?” said Mrs. McLeod, a
tall, angular woman in a green
silk dress.
“We’ll take it with us,” yelled
a dozen voices.
There was a rush for the
supper-room. Soon, all the
women had their coats on, and
each one carried a plate, as she
had done when entering the hall.
“Before we leave,” said Mrs.
Jones, “we’ll give the men some-
thing to do. Everyone creep out
and put the plates in the cars.
Then we’ll let the dogs loose.
While the men chase after their
dogs, we’ll drive off.”
■pURTIVE figures sneaked out
to the vehicles. The songs
and laughter in the scrub behind
the hall told that the men had
their attention fully occupied.
The dogs had been tied so that
they should not get in the way
while the men enjoyed the con-
tents of the kegs.
Suddenly, a score of hounds
descended on the drinkers.
Jumping madly at their owners,
fox-terriers, cattle-dogs, Irish-
terriers and mongrels flew like
catapults on the men around the
kegs. The dogs were glad to be
released: they came on the
drinkers with so sudden a rush
that the men fell back in wonder.
Then, a dozen owners were over-
whelmed by dogs that jumped up
to lick hands and faces and
generally express delight at re-
union after separation and
bondage.
It was while the men were
struggling to grab the collars that
a man without a dog gave a
shout:
“The cars are driving off!”
In a steady stream the cars
and trucks went off down the
road, while the men stared. The
lights of the headlamps cast
beams that glowed on the trees
beside the road. Engines roared
or purred. Then the cars had
gone.
Some of the men raced to the
hall. Not a car was left. Inside
the hall, empty benches led to
the platform. On the table, in
solitary state, was the travelling-
bag. The teapot had gone with
Mrs. Sutton and the other ladies
to the tennis-courts.
Peter Harper stared at the
empty hall. He turned to the
men crowded behind him.
“Seems as though the ladies
got tired of waiting. I see they’ve
left Bill’s present. Let’s make
the presentation and have
supper. Then we can follow our
womenfolk home.”
“Anyhow, the beer’s run out,”
said Bill Sutton, with a hiccough.
The men assembled in the hall.
Peter’s speech was somewhat
stilted. Peter was always at his
best with a large mixed audience.
By the time the men had sung:
“For He’s a Jolly Good Fellow”
and Bill had given an appro-
priate response, everyone was
ready to eat.
They filed out to the supper-
room. They gasped. The tables
were bare. The kerosene-tins
had not even been filled with
water,
“Gripes! What a dirty trick
to play on us!” said George
Green.
Peter scratched his head.
“Well, y’ know, we didn’t do
the right thing by the women.
After all, they were asked to a
dance.”
“But what have they done
with the supper?” said a small
dark-haired man in a suit a size
too large. “I’m as hungry as a
horse.”
It was then that someone,
looking out of the door, noticed
a glow in the sky.
“That isn’t a fire, is it?”
Peter gave a loud laugh. “I
know. It’s the lights of the new
tennis-courts. That’s where the
women are. And they’ve taken
the tucker there.”
“Come on, then,” said the
dark-haired man. “We might be
in time for the supper.”
Everyone streamed out of the
hall. Peter put out the lights
and locked-up. The men set off
along the road in the moon-
light. Tall men, short men, thin
men and stout, they made a pic-
ture as they strode along the
dusty two miles to the school
tennis-courts.
AT the tennis-courts the ladies
had just put on the tins for
the coffee when the slow pro-
cession was seen coming along
the road.
“Looks like we’ve got visitors
for supper,” said Mrs. Jones.
A loud female cheer went up
as the men turned in the gate-
way.
Peter panted up and addressed
the women, who stood grinning
beside the open fireplace.
“Well, ladies, I reckon we de-
served what you done to us. We
humbly apologise.”
“Hear, hear! ” said the
sheepish voices around him.
Mrs. Jones beamed,
“That’s very nice of you, Mr.
Harper. You’re just in time to
make the presentation to Mrs.
Sutton. We didn’t like to do it
without you. And, after that, I
hope you men will all join us at
supper.” *
Peter threw out his chest. Mrs.
Jones put the teapot in his hand.
Peter took from his pocket the
slip of paper on which his speech
was written and scanned it in the
lights from the tennis-courts.
The presentation continued.


Australia Opens the Bismarck Gate
The Huon
Campaign
By M. H. ELLIS
BY February, 1943, the war
in the Pacific had reached
its turning-point in New
Guinea, as in other parts
of the south-west Pacific. The
methods of the Coral Sea battle
had taught the enemy how long
was the arm, and how powerful
the punch, of the naval Air
Forces of the Allies. Four
months later the enemy had
been bustled out of Milne Bay.
When he had intruded into
the Moresby area by land he
had been thrust uncivilly back
across the towering Owen Stan-
ley ranges, biting and scratching -
at those who ejected him, but
still defeated in his purpose. His
entrenched division in the fast-
ness of Buna-Gona-Sanananda,
with its reinforcements and
supply-lines, had been wiped out
in operations which closed, for
ail practical purposes except the
hunt for fugitives, on January
23, 1943.
Up to that point the enemy’s
discomfiture had been accom-
plished by United States and
Australian formations equipped
only with improvised transport
by land and sea, by manpower
mostly inexperienced in tropical
fighting or in mobile jungle war-
fare, and commanding the
slimmest air resources. Our vic-
tories had been dearly bought;
our casualties heavy, especially
from disease.
However, conditions were now
changing. The war-effort of
both the United States and Aus-
tralia had been geared to pro-
vide requisite supplies, so soon
as commanders could determine
their needs. The stage had been
reached when the Allied
Supreme Command in the south-
west Pacific felt that it could
plan to serve the Japanese some
of their own aggressive medi-
cine with a very long spoon. It
determined, so soon as the men
and materials for the task could
be assembled, to break into the
enemy-held corridor along the
north coast of New Guinea and
fight its way up into the great
base-area of the Philippine
Islands, a main stepping-stone
for the invasion of Japan itself.
The entrance to this corridor
was through the Vitiaz and
Dampier Straits, which lie on
either side of Rooke Island and
divide New Guinea from New
Britain. The key to them was
possession of the Huon Penin-
sula. And it was to seize this
key and open the way to Japan
by the westward route of inva-
sion that the campaign was
fought. The land offensive was
to be an Australian enterprise.
It was to be planned in detail
by Australians, fought by his-
toric Australian divisions, with
the support of the United States
and Australian Navies and Air
Forces.
The reverses it had suffered
up to this stage, and for some
time afterwards, did not destroy
the aggressive mood of the
Japanese Imperial Command. It
was still talking loudly of anni-
hilating the Allied armies. It
seemed to be a little punch-
drunk. Its moves, after the
destruction of its Buna strong-
hold, resembled the reflex actions
of a wounded octopus rather
than the emanations of human
intelligence. As one tentacle of
their advance was chopped off,
the Japanese almost blindly
threw out another from their
inner bases.
Their immediate response to
defeat in Papua had been to
attempt to storm the sloping and
weakly-defended little airstrip on
Wau goldfield. This was 30
miles up in the mountains from
their port and airstrip at Sala-
maua, and commanded also
their Huon Peninsula base at
Lae, 20 miles further on across
the Markham River estuary.
But here they had their first
taste of the new Australian air-
mobility.
Sufficient troops of the veteran
17th Brigade and immense sup-
plies, having relation to the time
available, were flown in. In a
single day 1,000,0001 b. of
material was delivered. By
February 3, a week after his
approach had been discovered,
the enemy had been tossed into
the labyrinth of rain-drenched
mountains and forests between
Wau and the coast, and the Aus-
tralians were hard on his tail
and prodding him savagely
wherever found.
The Japanese, however, were
determined to secure Wau. That
place became every day more
vital to their purpose, as it did
to ours, as the Salamaua cam-
paign advanced, and the Bull-
dog-road, which began to feed
it, came into use. On February
28 a convoy under command of
Rear-Admiral Masatomi Kimura
steamed out of Rabaul headed
for Lae, down the north coast
of New Britain. Its eight trans-
ports, totalling 40,000 tons, and
its eight escort-destroyers were
bringing the 18th Army Com-
mander to look at the situation
and the men to implement his
plans. The Allied Air Forces
found this armada just before
it entered the Vitiaz Strait.
Two U.S. fighter-groups, four
bombardment-groups and the
71st Wing, Royal Australian
Air Force —the 75th and 77th
Fighter Squadrons, three Beau-
fort, one Boston and one Hudson
squadrons—struck hard.
The enemy grossly miscalcu-
lated both our air strength and
the course of a storm which he
expected to interfere with our
counter-measures. The storm, in
fact, delayed the air-cover which
was coming down New Britain
island to protect him from the
335 aircraft which the Allies
threw at him almost at sea-
level.
When the smoke of a running
battle cleared away, all his trans-
ports had been sunk. The sea
over hundreds of miles was alive
with rafts. The United States
PT boats and Japanese sub-
marines and destroyers were
competing for the survivors,
strewn about the ocean in piti-
able clusters. The escort was
demoralised; four of its de-
stroyers sunk.
The enemy rescued only 2734
out of 6900 men. Hundreds of
survivors who made the shore
in Allied territory were later
destroyed or captured. And
Lieutenant - General Hatazo
Adachi, commander of the 18th
Japanese Army, and Lieutenant-
General Nakano and the staff
of the 51st Japanese Division
had a first-hand taste of Aus-
tralian-American power which
they were not likely to forget.
They were, indeed, fortunate to
escape with their lives.
After this debacle there was
no overwhelming Japanese force
on hand to prevent our bat-
talions and independent com-
panies from clearing the enemy
from the slippery hills and
dripping moss forest between
Salamaua and the Morobe gold-
fields. The Australian Kanga
force —Moten’s 17th Brigade,
which fought its way right
through to the outskirts of Sala-
maua and received General
Blarney’s praise in a special order
on the capture of the town, and
the 2/3rd, 2/sth and 2/7th inde-
pendent companies late in
April struck at the Bobdubi and
Lababia Ridges, and at the end
of April the. effort was expanded
to meet the capabilities of
Major-General Savige’s re-
grouped Third Division, plus the
15th Brigade, which replaced
two of the independent com-
panies.
The Bobdubi Ridges were cap-
tured after most difficult fight-
ing, and the first amphibious
move for the reconquest of the
Mandated Territory was made
on June 30, when 760 United
States troops of the 41st Divi-
sion were landed in Higgins
boats at Nassau Bay, 11 miles
south of Salamaua. They drove
off a Japanese counter-attack
and next day became linked to
our 2/6th Battalion, which had
fought a way down to them
through the wild littoral country.
This was the enemy’s first taste
in the Pacific of amphibious war-
fare.
At the same period the
United States forces began to
clear the sea-path towards Huon
and to provide it with air-cover
from Kiriwina and Woodlark
Islands in the Trobriands, which
had been absorbed into the
American-Australian zone, as
well as from Dobodura, where a
vast aerodrome had been con-
structed. United States units
still further east also began to
move up towards the gateway
which our troops were presently
to open, and towards Bougain-
ville, whence the shadow of
Allied might was to fall on
Rabaul. Their first progress
took the form of landings on
New Georgia and Rendova.
By this time the Allied
Supreme Command had the
plans for the Huon campaign
well in hand. Planning head-
quarters were established in
Brisbane six months ahead of
the event, under a Chief-of-
Staff, Major-General Frank
Berryman, acting under the
Commander-in-Ghief of the
Allied Land Forces in the south-
west Pacific, General Blarney.
Major-General Berryman was
the most experienced chief-of-
staff in the Australian Army. He
had been Major-General Allen’s
chief staff-officer from Bardia
onwards, had earned rapid pro-
motion in North Africa, had
commanded the Berry Force in
Syria and had served as Deputy
Chief of the General Staff, under
General Northcott, who was
C.G.S. throughout the Pacific
War. Berryman, by this time,
was thoroughly experienced in
tropical fighting. The campaign
This article and one to follow next week, describing the
first great offensive operation of the Australian Forces in
the Pacific War, are abridged from a lecture before the
Royal Australian Historical Society in Sydney by M. H.
Ellis, F.R.Hist.S., F.R.A.H.S. (“Ek Dum”). The lecture
was attended by the Governor of N. S. Wales, General
Sir John Northcott, who was Chief of the Australian
General Staff at the time of the campaign. Lieutenant*
General Frank Berryman, G.O.C. Eastern Command,
Chief of Staff to the operation and its corps commander
in its final stages, and Major-General W. V. J. Windeyer,
who commanded the actual assaults on Red Beach (Lae)
and Scarlet Beach (Finschhafen).
was his special baby for its
whole length. At its culmination,
in November, 1943, on the ele-
vation of Sir Leslie Morshead
to the overall command of the
New Guinea forces, he was pro-
moted, given command of Corps
and decorated and shortly pro-
moted lieutenant-general.
Planning proceeded from the
first with the greatest secrecy.
Few officers indeed had access
to the room in which, on a
sandtable model of the area to
be invaded, the architects of the
campaign plotted its moves and
needs in detail, and attended to
the assembly of the giant re-
sources they would need for this
enterprise, unprecedented in
Australian military history.
It was on August 15, when
the Australian forces sat on the
rim of the Salamaua perimeter
defences, that General Blarney,
with Major-General Berryman,
flew to New Guinea to settle the
final details with Sir Edmund
Herring, who moved into‘for-
ward headquarters at Dobodura,
behind Buna, to take command
of active operations. So ad-
vanced was the preparation that
the assault actually took place a
full week earlier than G.H.Q.
had believed it could be made.
It achieved complete initial sur-
prise of an enemy who, at the
moment his peninsula strong-
hold was assailed, was himself
planning aggressive action
against his attackers.
Even without considering the
time factor —which called for
the whole of the Huon to be
under control by very early in
1944—the difficulties which
faced the organisers of the cam-
paign were enormous. The
enemy had long been in occu-
pation of the peninsula. He was
well dug-in. He knew the coun-
try. The great Japanese central
air-base at Rabaul was only 345
miles away, those around We-
wak a trifle less, the staging-base
at Gasmata 174 miles, Madang
about 150 from Lae.
These facts became patent
very soon to the Australian
command.
The country itself was enough
to make any organiser of inva-
sion quail at the sight of it.
From the Markham - Ramu
Rivers valley to the eastern tip
south of Finschhafen the Huon
Peninsula is roughly 120 miles
long. Generally speaking, it is
about 45-50 miles wide, much
narrower at the Finschhafen
end. You must imagine it as
filled almost entirely by a moun-
tain-range system—the great
Finisterres along the north-west
joining to the Sarawaged, which
in turn divides itself into the
Rawlinson and Cromwell
Ranges towards the south-east.
You must imagine that the
tallest of these mountains rise
to nearly 14,000 ft —nearly twice
the height of Mt. Kosciusko.
There are few pieces of country
which present such an awe-
inspiring spectacle as these
great ranges when seen in sunset-
or sunrise-light along the Rai
coast.
Their tangled foothills run
almost down, or right down, to
the sea. The narrow littorals
on the southern side are never
more than three miles wide, and
sometimes only a few yards or
nothing. They are cut into slices
by turgid rivers, which in Sep-
tember are usually swollen into
dangerous 10- or T 5-knot tor-
rents, capable of sweeping even
a strong, unloaded man com-
pletely off his feet.
Behind the narrow coastal
plains are cliff and gorge and
saddlebacks hundreds of feet
high, bedded down in slippery
appi caches clothed in tangled
scrub. On the seaboard and in
the wide Markham-Ramu Valley
the kunai —the blady-grass of
New Guinea —in places grows
3ft., 6ft., sometimes even 14ft.
or 15ft. high.
There were, of course, in 1943
no roads save a wheel-track in
the Markham Valley, but a mul-
titude of winding kanaka tracks
which an enemy lightly bur-
dened, who knew them well,
could use for swift escape, for
evasion or for ambush. These
pathways through the scrub and
long grass were so numerous,
so winding in parts as to re-
mind one of the interior pas-
sages of an antheap.
This, then, was the wild piece
of country —much like a slice of
Switzerland gone tropical and
towed out 900 miles from a con-
tinental shore into complete iso-
lation from civilisation —which
the Australian forces were to be
asked to retrieve from a
tenacious enemy.
Beaches on which troops
might land were few and short
and narrow on the southern
coast. They were of sinister-
looking black sand. On the
south there were no bays or
inlets suitable for a landing. The
ocean rolled powerfully in to the
shore, deep right up to the saw-
tooth coral-reefs, which were
dangerous even to small vessels
whose captains did not know
their location.
One of the first tasks of the
planners of the invasion was to
make a careful survey of the
approaches by sea to Lae. This
was done by bold little ships of
the Royal Australian Navy—the
corvettes Benalla and Shep-
parton and the tiny Stella and
Polaris —working under con-
stant threat of being blown to
pieces from the air.
The climate of the peninsula
is severely tropical. The tem-
perature of the region runs in
September to a mean of 86 de-
grees at 7 o’clock in the morning
and 81 degrees at 9 o’clock at
night. The minimum rainfall
recorded in that month had been
16in, the maximum 31.54 in. The
annual rainfall was about 174 in.
So the troops could expect to
encounter anything from an
average of a half-inch to an inch
of rain a day in this primitive,
sparsely-populated and disease-
ridden countryside, in which,
except for Lae, which they could
expect to capture in a state of
ruin, there had scarcely been a
dozen white residents together
in any one place before the
war.
The force to be used to carry
out the invasion of this uninvit-
ing wilderness was to number
roughly 30,000, in two divisions,
outside the men of the 76th
United States Navy Task Force
and the 2nd Engineer Special
Brigade of the 532nd U.S. Boat
and Shore Regiment. The 503rd
U.S. Parachute Regiment’s 1720
men were to help in the attack
on the Markham Valley.
The troops, therefore, formed
a body as numerous as the
British Army commanded by
Wellington in Spain in July,
1813, well on in the Peninsular
campaign against Napoleon’s
armies. The mere task of mov-
ing them from the Aus-
tralian coast —on which the
nearest great ports were Towns-
ville, 925 miles, and Cairns,
nearly as far from Finschhafen
—was comparable to that of re-
planting almost overnight the
whole of the people in Bendigo,
or in Grafton and Wollongong
together, on an entirely shelter-
less and foodless shore 900 miles
from our coast.
Moving its troops was only
the first and simplest of the
tasks of the Australian com-
mand. They must not only be
landed. They must be prepared
to fight desperately for their
lives the second they stepped
ashore, even if they were not
attacked by sea or from the air
before they even set foot on the
beach. They must be ready at
once to encounter entrenched
armies as strong as, or stronger
than, themselves. And they
(Continued on page 55)


ONLY
fd
j-frefc
H« u
* .I \
EN ROUTE TO
CANADA, U.S.A. and U.K.
Jm-
Fly Canadian Pacific to North America and enjoy a free
181 hour stopover at Honolulu . . • stay at famous Moana
Hotel, right on Waikiki Beach. Giant SUPER DC-6B
Airliners . . . pressurized ... air conditioned, the most
modern and luxurious aircraft on the South Pacific and
operated only by Canadian Pacific on this route.
DEPARTURES FROM SYDNEY EVERY TUESDAY
Consult your Local Travel Agent or Canadian Pacific Air
Lines Ltd., 247 George St., Sydney, and 59 William St.,
Melbourne; or Union Steam Ship Co. (General Agents).
CANADIAN PACIFIC AIR LINES LIMITED INC. IN CANADA
SPORTING NOTIONS
Names of famous Australian
racehorses figure in the list of
winners of the Caulfield Cup
since its establishment in 1879.
To be run next Saturday over the
mile-and-a-half course, it is this
year worth £lO,OOO, with a £350
trophy—£7ooo, plus trophy, to
the winner.
It looks an open Caulfield
Cup, and bookmakers should
offer reasonable odds about the
favorite. Selections: Quite
Talk, 1; Petrograd, 2 ; Earldom,
3.
New Zealanders My Hero and
Windsor, in finishing first and
second in the V.A.T.C. Herbert
Power Handicap last Saturday,
both at long odds, drew marked
attention to their prospects in
both the Caulfield and the Mel-
bourne Cups. My Hero, in par-
ticular, should make it interest-
ing for the locals, especially in
the Melbourne Cup. My Hero
was last at one ;.!age of the race,
but ran his opponents down in
the final furlong. He is expected
to make it tough for the opposi-
tion in the Caulfield Cup, but the
class will be much stronger, and
My Hero will find it a task if he
again has to come from last, or
nearly so, round the home turn.
He looks a better Melbourne .
Cup chance. He has been
placed at two miles on three
occasions in New Zealand. The
Melbourne Cup is the stable
objective.
Melbourne trainer F. W. Hoy-
sted made excellent purchases
when he secured two youngsters
by imported sire Empyrean at
the Melbourne March yearling
sales. He paid 1500 guineas for
Loriot and 1200 guineas for
Clear Springs, both on behalf of
A. R. Creswick. On Saturday
they won the Debutante (fillies)
and the Debutant (colts) Stakes
respectively. Seofon, winner of
the A.J.C. Gimcrack Stakes, was
all the rage for the Debutante,
but was easily defeated into
third place ; however, she was
slowly away. Loriot started at
8 to 1, but her stablemate went
to the post at 11 to 8 on for the
colts’ race. He won his division
much easier than Loriot.
It is little wonder Loriot shows
brilliance. She is related to the
well-performed speedster Ajax
and to Hesione and Lady
Pirouette. Ajax won 36 races
and £40,275 in stakes, while
Hesione cleared out with the
A.J.C. Gimcrack Stakes and also
won the V.R.C. Maribyrnong
Plate. Loriot is first foal of her
dam Lorella by Yaralla from
Beam (a half-sister to Ajax) by
Marconigram (imp.) from Med-
menham (imp.) by Prince Gala-
had.
Clear Springs also is a first
foal. His dam. Spring Time, is
by Caithness (imp.) from Trinity
(a half-sister to Trivalve, dual
Derby winner and a winner of
the Melbourne Cup) by Man-
fred,
Empyrean, sire of both two-
year-old winners at Caulfield on
Saturday, is a son of Hyperion
and holds the distinction of being
the sire in his first season of the
winners of £17,365, an Aus-
tralian record. His oldest pro-
geny now are three years, and
include Pure Fire, Chez Paree,
Sir Dallas and Yungawee.
Winner of the Toorak Handi-
cap, one mile, on the opening
day of the V.A.T.C. spring
meeting is not often in the line-
up for the Caulfield Cup the fol-
lowing Saturday, and since 1937,
when The Trump won both
races, the only winners of the
double have been Royal Gem
(1946) and Grey Boots (1950).
Journal (1934) and Gaine Car-
rington (1933) both ran third
in the Toorak then landed the
Cup, but the mile race hasn’t
been much of a guide to the more
important handicap, a point
racegoers should remember, re-
garding the success in the Toorak
of Desert Breeze, who has 7.12
in the Cup. He has no form as
a stayer.
“Pity he broke his flute."
Some jockeys experience a lot
of luck in specified events. Take
Melbourne jockey Reg Heather.
His best race has been the Caul-
field Toorak Handicap. Winning
of the race last Saturday on
Desert Breeze made his fifth suc-
cess in that mile. He had pre-
viously won the Toorak on Grey
Boots, Don Pedro, Royal Gem
and Jovial. X.ad. Desert Breeze
also won the Toorak last season.
He was then ridden by T. Unko-
vich.
Raced by A. G. Potter, Bar-
. fleur’s win in Saturday’s Caul-
field Guineas, from Cromis and
Eicon, was the A.J.C. (chiefs
best win to date. First money
exceeded 3500 guineas. It also
was jockey W. Gamer’s most im-
portant success, and he made full
use of Barfleur’s sprinting
ability. Cromis came home so
well that he will be one of the
fancied three-year-olds against
Sydney colt Prince Morvi in the
Victoria Derby. It was Cromis’s
first run since the autumn.
• • • '•
, Despite cold and bleak winds
on the third and fourth days of
the A.J.C. spring carnival,
attendance figures of 194,000 for
the four days showed an in-
crease of 30,000 on last spring’s
total. Totalisator figures also
bounded up. This year the turn-
over was £698,000, compared
with £613,000 last spring.
Suggestions have been made
for a recasting of the main
events of the A.J.C. spring pro-
gramme, but that isn’t likely to
be taken much notice of by the
A.J.C. committee and its execu-
tive, who handle the sport
quite capably- Interest lacked
in the weight-for-age races be-
cause of the absence of a stayer
to extend Hydrogen or a sprinter
to down Tavien. In bygone
years the weight-for-age events
were features of the programme,
but ii recent times the public
has not been greatly interested
because of the moderate record
of most of the competitors. This
might change as the season pro-
gresses, and maybe next year
better all-round class will be in
the line-ups.
Randwick winner Queen of
All, raced by A. O. Romano in
partnership with F. L. Paul, is
a Newtown Wonder (imp.) filly
closely related to El Senorita, a
useful stayer of a few seasons
ago and winner of City Tatter-
sail’s Cup, the V.R.C. River
Handicap and Veteran Stakes,
as well as the A.J.C. Dangar
Handicap. Silver King, who
showed wonderful speed when
he was racing about 20 years
ago, and Wedding Day also
figure in the family lines. Prin-
cess Sovereign, dam of Queen
of All, traces back to a former
stayer of note, Trenton.
Indian Empire is probably the
most handsome two-year-old
colt in Sydney, and he combines
a grand appearance with gallop-
ing ability. At his second race
outing he had previously
finished third in the Breeders’
Plate —he won the A.J.C. Canon-
bury Stakes in near-record time
for Australia over five furlongs,
covering the distance in 591-
seconds, one second outside All
Love’s figures made 13 years
ago. Costing 4000 guineas, top
price of the Melbourne March
yearling sales, Indian Empire is
a half-brother to The Mall and
carries the Delta colors, being
raced by Adolph Basser. The
colt is by Dhoti (imp.) from the
French mare L’Oseille (a winner
in England and France) by
Mont Bernina from L’Oreade by
Huntersdale. Mont Bernina won
half a dozen races in France,
and in England was successful
at 2i miles, which augurs well
for Indian Empire’s future as
a likely stayer.
In winning the A.J.C. Metro-
politan from Hydrogen and
Earldom, Carioca covered the 13
furlongs in 2.43 i,. which was
faster than average time for the
race and*actually the best since
Nightbeam’s year (1943), and
he carried almost welter weight,
9.7, The hard run, following so
closely on top of the gruelling
Epsom test, no doubt had some
effect on Carioca, and the person
most concerned from that angle
would be lessee-trainer P.
(“Duck”) Hoysted. Naturally he
knows more about the horse
than any other person, and it is
fortunate for him that Carioca
has excellent recuperative
powers. Carioca now has won
upwards of £28,000 in stakes,
practically all of it within the
past 12 months —a rare achieve-
ment for any racehorse.
Winning the A.J.C. Rand-
wick Plate in easy fashion and
in good time for a weight-for-
age event (three mins, flat for 1|
miles, the new distance) Hy-
drogen brought his total stake
earnings to £51,029, or only £5396
less than Phar Lap’s Australian
record. Hydrogen will prob-
ably contest the Cox Plate at
Moonee Valley and the Mac-
kinnon Stakes at Flemington be-
fore tackling the Melbourne
Cup. The Cox Plate is an attrac-
tive w.-f.-a. contest. Hydrogen
won it last spring and was
second in the previous year.
Form horse of the A.J.C.
Chester Handicap, Spearby, who
had beaten Silver Phantom in
the Tramway Handicap and had
run fourth to that horse in the
Epsom, ran last Saturday’s six
furlongs in 1.9{, creating a
Randwick record and getting
close to Aurie’s Star’s 1.8?, estab-
lished at Flemington in 1940.
Prior to Saturday four horses
had shared the previous Rand-
wick six-furlongs record, 1.10.
They were Gold Salute, Soho,
Chaperone and Warspite.
Sydney jockey Neville Sell-
wood, who now has ridden just
on 800 winners, tells a good
story about fellow-horseman Bill
Cook and Carioca. Quite a
number of jockeys make a
habit of yelling at their mounts
in races, and some horses appa-
rently heed the urge. When Sell-
wood’s mount is in front of
Carioca, which is more often
than not (up till the concluding
stages, at any rate), he doesn’t
need to take a quick look-see to
notice the crack performer put-
ting in those famous long strides
of his. “You don’t have to look
for Carioca,” says Sellwood.
“You can hear Cookie yelling at
the horse calling on him for that
great finishing effort. Cook
makes more noise than the horse
or the other jockeys, but it is
obvious the scheme has brought
excellent results,” he adds. Sell-
wood hopes to be far enough in
front of Cook and Carioca in
the Melbourne Cup not to hear
nor see either in the final stages.
Sellwood is likely to ride Hydro-
gen in the two-miler, but should
Prince Morvi win the V.R.C.
Derby without being too solidly
pressed he might take his place
in the Cup field and Sellwood
could be the jockey.
* * ♦
The Wallabies gave a spec-
tacular exhibition of Rugby
Union at Sydney Showground
against an N.S.W. team. Scofe
39-9. The game, if a bit one-
sided, was bright, the Wallabies
attacking from any position, the
forwards backing up beauti-
fully, and the ball, time after
time, trickling from hand to hand
in a manner pleasanL to watch,
r#’ • • •
The great improvement was in
the forwards. They packed
down in a workmanlike manner,
breakaways pushing from a
sharp angle yes, pushing
and, at a signal, the pack gave a
concerted heave. The ball
would come out to half Cyril
Burke, who would throw one of
his long passes, and away the
backs would go—with the for-
wards right up with the ball.
There was nothing particularly
revolutionary about any of this,
but it was Rugby Union as it
should be played. And it hasn’t
been seen around these parts for
some time.
!•! • • ' •
Queensland winger Garth
Jones, who left here with no
great reputation, was considered
the world’s best winger in South
Africa. On Saturday he scored
five tries. “World’s best” is a
pretty tall claim —one would like,
for instance, to see what the
Welsh have in the way of
wingers—but on Saturday’s
game he is certainly an out-
standing player. Eddie Staple-
ton, the other Wallaby winger,
also looked good. Skipper John
Solomon, although he dropped
quite a few passes, now tackles
with vigor—moving up on his
man very fast and dropping him
with a businesslike celerity. In
the forwards Nick Shehadie was
everywhere.
* ♦ ♦
Grade-cricket has now got
going just about everywhere. In
Sydney and Brisbane they’ve
played a couple of rounds. The
Sheffield Shield programme
opens on Nov. 13 with N.S.W.
v. Q. in Brisbane and S.A. v.
W.A. in Perth.
• • • •
In Sydney’s grade-cricket last
Saturday all 10 batsmen of one
team (last year’s premiers, St.
George) were out clean-bowled!
Clarke and Cotton (Paddington),
who bagged five apiece, knocked
’em over. Both trundlers played
some Sheffield Shield last year—
Clarke, then at Toowoomba,
with Queensland, Cotton with
N.S.W. Both are in this year’s
practice-squad from which the
(N.S.W.) State team is picked.
Arthur Morris is changing
grade-clubs this year—leaving
St George, with which he has
played since he began in 1936,
for Paddington. St. George also
seemed likely to lose its other
Test man, Ray Lindwall, whom
Queensland was considering in-
viting to coach; but latest re-
ports are that he will be staying
with the club (and N.S.W.).


Sydney Fancourt McDonald
Portrait of
An Australian Doctor
By BETHIA FOOTT
DR. SYDNEY FAN*
court McDonald,
M.D., B.S. (Melbourne),
F.R.C.P., F.R.A.C.P., was
a very distinguished Queensland
physician whose tastes led him
more particularly to specialise in
the diseases of children, in
nervous- diseases, and in the
general treatment of repatriated
servicemen.
“Mac” to us (he was my hus-
band’s uncle) and “S.F.” to those
among whom he worked, he was
descended from Humfrey
Michell, M.P., who, according to
his monument in England, was
“Surveyor of Queen Elizabeth’s
castle of Windsor,” and whose
direct descendant, William Henry
Fancourt Mitchell (as the name
is now spelt), came to Tasmania
from Leicester, as a young man,
and in 1824 left the Colonial
Secretary’s Office in Hobart to
take Up land near Kyneton, in
Victoria. This was Mac’s grand-
father.
William Mitchell married
Christina, daughter of the re-
doubtable Mrs. Templeton, the
first person to introduce
Saxony Merino sheep into Vic-
toria. She chartered a ship, fill-
ing it with her family, an indi-
gent cousin named Mrs. For-
longe, and a boatload of sheep.
Mrs. Templeton installed her
cousin on her property at Seven
Creeks, Euroa (Vic.), to act as
her manager, and thus it comes
about that the name perpetu-
ated on the memorial at Euroa is
Mrs. Forlonge’s, and not her
employer’s. It was Mrs. Temple-
ton who financed the expedition
to Australia and who had the
courage to carry her dreams into
action.
The Mitchells built themselves
a great rambling single-storied
house, which they called Bar-
fold, on the banks of the Cam-
paspe River, and from here Sir
William (he was knighted in
1875) carried on a multitude of
activities. He was, at various
times. Commissioner for Police
in Victoria, a member of Par-
liament, Postmaster - General,
member of the Legislative
Council. A squatter, he was as
well the mainstay of the great
wool-selling firm of Golds-
brough and Co.
Lady Mitchell, with her two
elder sons and seven daughters,
was the chief lady of the dis-
trict. She entertained, visited
the needy, and knitted. How
she must have knitted. My
father’s cousin, Miss Lily Drum-
mond, who Jived in Kyneton
when she was a little girl, tells
me that all the girls in the dis-
trict were given red woollen
mittens knitted by Lady Mit-
chell. And the boys, she says,
were knitted long red woollen
stockings.
Of the seven daughters, one,
Amelia, left Barfold to marry
George Thomas McDonald, a
Scottish surveyor who had
joined the Victorian Public Ser-
vice. Instead of the cedar-
framed bath of Barfold she
accustomed herself to a canvas
tub set in the lee of their
wagon. It is recorded that in
their leisure hours George Mc-
Donald gathered his men around
him and read Dickens aloud. He,
however, was one of those who
suffered under the Berry Gov-
ernment on that Black Wednes-
day when hundreds of civil ser-
vants were dismissed, and he and
his wife left Victoria to settle
near Brisbane, where, in 1885,
their son, Sydney Fancourt Mc-
Donald, was born.
Mac began his education at
Rocklea State School. When he
was twelve he won a scholarship
to the Brisbane Grammar School,
where he was in the same class
as Sir John Lavarack and Dr.
S. A. Roe, the first Queensland
Rhodes Scholar, both of whom
remained his friends all his life.
In 1904 he won a scholarship to
Trinity College, Melbourne,
where he gained many honors,
and graduated M. 8., 8.5., in
1910. On leaving the University
he served in Melbourne as house-
surgeon at the Alfred Hospital;
as r.m.o. at the Children’s Hos-
pital, and finally at the Infec-
tious Diseases Hospital at Fair-
field, graduating as M.D. (Mel-
bourne) in 1913.
During these years he worked
under Sir Richard Stawell, Dr.
Hamilton Russell and Dr.
Sholes. His admiration for them
was soon almost equalled by
their interest in him, lliey recog-
nised the qualities which set this
young doctor apart from his
fellows, and which seemed to
assure him later of a place among
the most brilliant men in the Aus-
tralian medical world. They be-
friended him, and he unceasingly
acknowledged the debt he owed
them in their teaching. His
tribute to Sir Richard Stawell,
when he delivered the Stawell
Oration in Melbourne in 1943,
was as generous as it was
sincere.
He considered that the great-
est characteristic of his old
teacher was his constant study
of all that was newest in medi-
cine and science, with the
strongly-stressed fact that, while
newer methods facilitate an
earlier diagnosis, a doctor must
never forget what changes he can
detect in his patient by ordinary
clinical means. He had no
patience with the man who, feel-
ing an irregular pulse, needed an
electrocardiogram to distinguish
between auricular fibrillation and
a frequency of extrasystcles. *
“S.F.” learned these lessons
well. He never forgot that medi-
cine was not a mere matter of
earning a living, or that it was
something even more than curing
the sick ; that it was the pursuit
of knowledge, and the proving
of scientific truth.
It was this pursuit that led
“S.F.” jto England, to do post-
graduate work, and to qualify as
a consulting physician. On
arrival he worked at Queen
Charlotte’s Hospital. Shortly
afterwards, with the outbreak of
war, he offered his services to the
War Office in a medical, or a
combatant, capacity. He could
have served in either, for he had
always been interested in the
Army, had been a lieutenant in
the Australian Militia Engineers
in 1904, and later became the
Melbourne University Rifles’
commanding officer.
Accepted by the Royal Army
Medical Corps, he was in France
soon enough to take part in the
retreat from Mons. In November,
1915, he was mentioned in dis-
patches.
He remained with the
R.A.M.C. throughout the war.
While he was at Etaples, it was
written of him: “It is difficult to
express just what Captain Mc-
Donald means to us all at No.
46 Stationary Hospital. When
we are busy his energy, tact
and friendliness are an in-
spiration to us all, and he is
approachable to all who need
him. During very bad air-raids
—all the worse for being on hos-
pitals—his behavior is an ex-
ample to us all, and those who
may feel a little anxious are
assured and strengthened to
carry on with jobs that need
coal, calculated courage under
such circumstances.”
Frances Hendry, a Scottish
V.A.D., wrote of him to her
mother in May, 1916: “We have
got a new M.O. An Australian.
He is GIGANTIC, and an awful
brick. I call him Goliath. He
is very much interested in
V.A.D.s (professionally, of
course), and thinks we ought to
be taught. He has taught me
more in two days than anyone
else has in eleven months, but he
is rather terrifying. He comes
into the ward and stands beside
you and watches what jou are
doing, and never utters. Then,
when you have finished—say,
washing out a patient’s mouth —
he asks you what you have used,
why, and to what end. He made
me take a patient’s pulse yester-
day, and asked me to report if
it was ‘diachrotic’ —don’t know
how to spell it I nearly
swooned with horror, but told
him right out that I simply did
not know in the least what he
was even talking about. So then
he ceased glaring at me and I
was able to survive. After that we
did a Cook’s Tour of the ward,
feeling all the pulses, and having
all the differences of quality and
beat explained to me. It was
really awfully decent of him, and
I hope I stay in this ward for a
while, as I feel I may really get
to know something about the
treatment of enteric if I do.”
In August of that year she
wrote; “ ‘A’ [later General Sir
Archibald Wavell] came to see
me last week, but being on night
duty I missed him. I might have
been able to get up and see him,
but he went to the officers’ mess
instead of ours, and ran into
Goliath, who was very stern and
said he mi st let sleeping V.A.D.s
lie.”
Again, she wrote: “Goliath
was orderly dog tonight, and
came in to talk to me while wail ■
ing for a convoy. He was in a
terribly strenuous mood and
could talk of nothing but malig-
nant tumors, on which subject
I am now quite au fait, as he
talked for an hour, and nothing
would stop him.”
And again; “I am still in
Goliath’s wards, and that makes
such a difference. He has been
a real brick to me, and helped
me in a thousand ways.,. .Your
maternal heart will be relieved
to hear Goliath has already been
‘collected’ and is to be married
on his next leave. He is an amaz-
ingly clever person, and it does
my wits such a lot of good to
talk to him. He has read every-
thing, from the most strenuous
books down to Matilda, and her
dreadful lies.”
Also: “Goliath is going on
special leave, ostensibly to see a
sick brother, but I, who alone
know the whole story, am
amazed that the whole camp
cannot read the secret of the very
happy twinkle in his eye.”
And lastly; “Goliath tells me
he hears that deserted mothers
are taking up the industry of
breaking in mules, somewhere in
the New Forest. I asked him Jf
he thought that you, having
broken me in, and turned me out
such a model of discipline, would
make an easy afternoon’s work
of a mule —but he only smiled
and ran away.”
Always learning, Mac in
France whs most influenced by
Sir John Rose Bradford, whose
work as a consulting physician in
that area made him famous.
After the war, Mac returned to
England, and worked in various
hospitals for nervous disorders.
He passed his M.F .C.P. in Lon-
don in 1919, and returned to Aus-
tralia in 1920.
He was asked to stay in Mel-
bourne, but Brisbane was his
home, and he had early decided,
to live and work there. He now
started specialising, in children
and in nervous diseases. He
was appointed hon. physician to
out-patients at the Children’s
Hospital, where later, when the
system of honoraries was dis-
continued, he became their visit-
ing physician. He loved and
understood children, and had the
ability to talk to them naturally,
so that they came to trust him,
and were not afraid.
At the same time he succeeded
Colonel Graham Butler as con-
sulting physician to the Repatri-
ation Hospital at Rosemont,
where for the next twenty years
he determined the standards of
treatment and differential diag-
nosis in repatriation in Queens-
land. He saw with extraordinary
clarity the psychological factors
which influenced the recovery or
otherwise of the military pen-
sioner. In his paper on this sub-
ject he stresses the fact that the
man with the major physical dis-
ability, but with a sanguine out-
look on life, presents less of a
problem to the Repatriation
authorities than another man with
a lesser physical disability but
with either an unsettled home life
or a greater tendency to worry.
Mac was a councillor of the
8.M.A., Queensland branch,
from 1923-44, and its president in
1930. Chairman of the Post-
Graduate Committee of the
8.M.A., he also served on
various other B.M.A. com-
mittees, and on the outbreak of
the 1939-45 war became the
R.A.A.F.’s consulting physician
in his area.
Mac’s interest in airmen and
the air dated back to 1928, when
he was first appointed examiner
and medical consultant to the
R.A.A.F. and Civil Aviation in
Brisbane. The fact that he had
qualified as a commercial pilot
enabled him more fully to under-
stand the problems of pilot-
fatigue and other aviation
medical problems. With the out-
break of war, however, he was
not content until he had volun-
teered for a period of whole-
time service, which took him to
New Guinea, and allowed him to
study the fresh problems to be
faced when fighting under
tropical conditions.
In spite of the war, and the
increase of his work with the
Air Force and Repatriation, Mac
never forgot his first love, the
children. All his case histories
of children were illustrated with
photographs of his own taking,
which have since proved of great
value to those doctors who are
following in his footsteps. The
papers which he wrote on
Plumbism in children, and the
conclusions to which he came,
were largely responsible for the
Queensland Government’s de-
cision to ban the use of lead
paint for buildings and fences.
He was deeply interested in the
treatment of poliomyelitis, and
his papers on this subject show
that his early theories were well
in line with those of the present-
day.
With all these branches of
work, any one of which, in
peace-time, would have been
regarded as sufficient, it is not
surprising that Mac’s health
began to suffer. After his illness
in 1944 he was advised to take
things more easily. But the war
was still on. To give up his
association with the R.A.A.F.
was “unthinkable.” To sever his
connections with the Repatria-
tion Hospital, at a time like that,
was “quite out of the question.”
And, of course, to leave the
Children’s Hospital, or give up
his private practice, would
“break his heart.”
And so, he kept on working.
In his own home, Mac was a
charming and the perfect
uncle. From the time his
nephews and nieces were babies,
he kept their nurseries supplied
with books which reflected his
own tastes and formed theirs.
Under his guidance they read
Uncle Remus, Jackanapes, A
Flat Iron for a Farthing, gradu-
ating by way of Stalky, Treasure
Island and Catriona through the
world of the classics up to the
moderns. And when his nephews
and nieces grew up and got
married he adopted the new-
comers with that same love and
interest he had shown his family.
I can never believe Mac was not
my uncle. It was Mac who gave
me all my present copies of Jane
Austen’s books, replacing them
as the old ones fell to bits. It
was he who introduced me to
the delights of Susan Ferrier,
Mrs. Boscawen and Ann Darner
—presents which would be inter-
spersed with bits of nonsense on
cooking, wildflowers and Mark
Twain’s Is Shakspeare Dead ?
His flat was full of books,
spread round the walls of every
room. All the classics, most of
the great contemporaries, as well
as books on sailing, on medicine,
on motor-cars, dirt-track racing,
art, cookery, soldiers, sailors, on
battles and campaigns, on slang,
and, above all, on English.
Good English, correct English,
pure English.
To his friends he was always
diffident, yet eager; he had a
quick, staccato way of speaking,
so that words tumbled out of his
mouth, as facts, or advice, or a
joke (“We all make mistakes —
even the youngest of us”) all
slipped quickly out. Under the
spell of such swift twinkles of
the eye his listeners had to be
on their toes to keep up with
him. And, whether it was during
dinner, or sitting round the fire,
or having coffee out on the wide
veranda which seemed to look
out over the whole of Brisbane,
he would break off a conversa-
tion to dart out of the room, in
the middle of a sentence —a habit
which whetted the interest of his
friends, but which must have
caused strangers to wonder what
on earth had gone wrong. In a
minute he would reappear, an
open book in his hand, and, sit-
ting down as if there had been
no interruption, would read the
passage he had remembered
which was relevant to the latest
discussion,
Mac’s six years in England
(allowing for the interruption of
war) left him with a love for that
land which he shared with John
of Gaunt. For him, too, it was
“that land of such dear souls,”
and he kept his early friendships
green by the constant exchange
of news-packed letters.
When the 1939-45 war broke
out, his friendship took a
practical turn. How many
people in Britain were on his
regular mailing-list for food-
parcels I never discovered, but I
do know that even the Brisbane
firm which handled this special
account was astounded by the
number. And how many people
he helped, I never found out
either. But I did hear by
accident, of regular instalments
sent by him to help to rebuild a
library in which one of his
friends was interested, and which
had been demolished by enemy
fire in 1940. He loved to give
where it was needed, and his
happy and eager generosity has
helped more people, and more
causes, than we shall ever know.
Mac was married twice. His
first wife was Miss Marjorie
Peck, whom he married in Eng-
land. She died in 1939, after
many years’ illness. In 1942 he
married Miss Jean Darvall,
whose eager brain matched his
to perfection.
Mac died on August 8, 1947.
We who knew him, who loved
him, and who worked with hjm,
will never forget him.


One of the
best hands
about the
place
A “Dangar-Gem” equipped as a two unit
milker will milk 20 or more cows an hour
with ease.
For segregating part of your herd, for stud
cattle or for small herds you can have all
the advantages of machine milking without
costly installation by using
DANGAR-GEM
Use it anywhere on the farm, in the milking
sheds, in a bail or even in the paddock and
save time, money and drudgery.
Full details from
DANGAR, GEDYE & MALLOCH LTD.
10-14 Young Street, Circular Quay, Sydney
P.O. Box 509 Phone : BU 5095
Branches; Melbourne, Newcastle, Lismore, Wagga
and Hay
How to live on
what you make
With living costs what they
are, do you find it impossible
to make ends meet, build up
savings, still have anything
left for fun?
Back-breaking budgets aimed
at “average families” won’t
help—but here’s a plan that
will.
October Reader’s Digest gives
six simple, basic rules to ease
your financial worries, help
you get—and keep—out of the
red. Don’t miss this helpful
article.
Also in Reader’s Digest,
“Three steps to personal peace,”
“The story of Syngman Rhee,”
“Plain facts about the Rosen-
bergs” and 28 other stimulat-
ing articles. On sale now —1/6
at all newsagents and book-
stalls. Get your copy today.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
KOREAN MADNESS
Practically the whole South
Korean outlook, as this is repre-
sented by President Rhee, is
rejected out of hand in Britain ;
more significantly, doubts about
it are being aired in the U.S.
also.
A New York “Herald
Tribune” correspondent sets the
questions: “Is the long-professed
U.N. aim of peaceful achieve-
ment of a united, free and demo-
cratic Korea a realistic goal at
this time? And, is it a practical
proposition?”
Reflecting both the doubt and
puzzlement over the whole issue
now evident in the U.S., the
correspondent adds :
“The answers to these two
fundamental questions, when
stripped of their propaganda
elements, surely is a frank and
unashamed ‘no.’ Few diplomats
in Washington or abroad really
believe that a democratic and
United Korea is a practical pro-
position or a realistic one.
“However unpleasant it may
be, the fact seems to remain that
the U.N. —certainly the United
States—is not likely to surrender
to the Chinese and North Korean
Communists any territory it won
on the battlefield. Nor is it any
more likely that the Communists,
having fought to a standstill the
combined, though restricted,
power of 16 U.N. Powers and
South Korea, is going to yield
any territory it conquered by
strength of arms.
“Thus, each side is confronted
with the prospect of renewed
war in Korea—and very likely
World War lll—to gain geo-
graphical advantages which no
soldier or diplomat of either side
would seriously argue were really
important from a strategic view-
point.
“The principle of collective
resistance to aggression has been
attained. Any revival of the
fighting in Korea —unless it is
provoked, as South Korean
President Rhee seems determined
to provoke it —would seem to be
a matter of pride or madness
and would have no relation to
the strategic realities of the cold
war
“We [U.S.A.] find ourselves
embroiled in a reaffirmation of
the status quo with the U.N.
and South Korean armies stand-
ing at a constant state of alert
opposite the powerful Chinese
Communist and North Korean
armies.
“This is not such an unbear-
able prospect when it is viewed
in the proper perspective and
against the alternative of joining
Mr. Rhee and his American-
built South Korean divisions in
an attempt to march to the Yalu.
“For one thing, the status-quo
theory, while no doubt straining
the patience of millions of
Americans who instinctively
abhor a failure to achieve
victory, would nevertheless tie
down the 1,000,000 Chinese
Communist troops now in North
Korea.
“True, it would also tie down
the eight American divisions now
in South Korea, But this would
be a relatively inexpensive way
to prevent any full-scale Chinese
intervention in the war in Indo-
China, which, after all, is a far
more significant area of the cold-
war struggle than Korea.”
U.S. in Spain
Hailed in America (vide
cables) as “a new link in the
‘steel chain’ guarding the West
from Soviet aggression,” the
just-concluded 20-year U.S. de-
fence pact with Spain has been
two years in the making.
The Truman Administration
started it, and it would prob-
wisiisil
•V'■?.*-• r\? x , V<Tfi J^>^,,)«/>-VM - i GbV <' -A 'm-'V' v' »■ -' 1 * **, ■';
mmpMNI
St. Louis ( U.S.A. ) “Globe-Democrat "
PAPER CORNERSTONE
ably have been concluded long
ago but for American considera-
tion of possible political reac-
tions, in France particularly and
also among Britain’s Left-
wingers.
The negotiations, a New York
“Herald Tribune” correspondent
has recorded, “have been about
the most secret diplomacy which
the United States has attempted
since the war.”
In the U.S. Press the proposal
has had fairly general support
throughout. In Britain London
“Daily Telegraph” has been a
lone voice in championing the
inclusion of Spain in the Western
defence set-up. Now, a corres-
pondent of the London paper
suggests, Britain could be a very
considerable loser by its virtual
ostracism of Franco’s country,
whereas America looks a sure
gainer.
The correspondent brushes
aside—perhaps a bit lightly—
Franco’s frequent demands on
Gibraltar, a point of difference
which does not antagonise
merely the Left, pro-Com., anti-
American element in Britain but
finds all Britain adamant, and
which, of course, doesn’t inhibit
the Americans, who, sensibly
enough from their point of view,
are meanwhile getting in while
the going is good.
Overlooking that rather
important point, the corres-
pondent concentrates on the
absurdity of the British Left’s
position.
Instancing the clamoring of
British Socialist M.P.s for open
trading with Communist China
and its admission to U.N.0., he
comments ;
“These same people never
miss a chance to look sourly at
anti-Communist Spain. I call
this lunacy... .but, of course.
General Franco is a red-rag to
more than Socialist bulls. It is
indeed remarkable in the modern
world that tyrants of the Left
are always assumed to be more
sinned against than sinning;
whereas tyrants of the Right can
possess no redeeming feature
“There are two main con-
siderations about bringing Spain
into partnership, one military
and the other economic....
Even supposing that the military
aspect could be disregarded, the
economic aspect could not. The
air is thick with warnings that
exporting is going to become
more difficult. Both Portugal
and Spain are in process of con-
siderable economic develop-
ment Trade may follow the
flag, but it does not follow the
snub —at least, not on anything
like the maximum possible scale.
British firms have obtained a
substantial share of the new big
steel plant at Aviles; but if the
political atmosphere were better
they could obtain a share in
countless other projects.
“The signature of a Spanish-
American agreement would not
mean the American economic
dominance of Spain the
Spaniards are too sensitive about
their independence for that. But
it could only mean a predilection
in favor of American enterprise.
“I wonder why so many
people are dazzled by the
prospect of a problematical
market in Moscow, and blind to
the prospect of a certain market
in Madrid. General Franco is
not more likely to be shamed or
shoved out of power than Mr.
Malenkov—perhaps much less
likely.
“The British Ambassador to
Spain said recently that foreign
competitors were ‘tending to
oust’ British manufacturers
‘from their traditional connec-
tion with the Spanish market.’
There is no doubt that this
tendency can be traced directly
to political cold-shouldering.”
Population Pressure
Dipping into the “Times,”
London “Time and Tide” noted
on opposite pages two interest-
ing population items.
One report quoted Governor-
General Sir William Slim speak-
ing at Brisbane, where he “ex-
horted the people of the
Dominion in urgent language to
wax fruitful and multiply;
there were 8,750,000 people in
Australia and 1,200,000,000
land-hungry Asiatics not far
away ; Australia’s only justifica-
tion for possessing so much land
was that it should populate the
land.” v
The other item quoted Lady
Dhanvanthi Rama Rau, an
Indian delegate to an inter-
national conference on planned
parenthood, declaring that the
r'apid growth of population was
the biggest problem in the
world.
“The position, then,” com-
mented “Time and Tide,” “is
that the citizens of one member-
State of the British Common-
wealth which is dangerously
underpopulated will not pro-
duce more children ; the citizens
qf another member-State which
ijs dangerously overpopulated in-
sist on producing far too many.
If pure logic ruled human affairs
(which Heaven forbid) both the
Australian and the Indian Gov-
ernments would welcome and
do everything to promote a mass
emigration of Indians to Aus-
tralia.
“How long would it take Mr.
Menzies or Dr, Evatt to agree
to that? The answer, of course,
is, all eternity. One cannot
criticise the ‘white - Australia’
policy. But the double problem
remains.”
Experts on the “double prob-
lem,” however, have quoted in-
stances (specifically Italy) to
show that the moving of large
numbers of surplus population
has solved nothing; it has
simply been followed by an even
greater rate of population in-
crease in the country they were
shifted from. On this basis
India would still breed ’em just
as fast, and faster, if the whole
surplus was moved elsewhere —
say, to England.
Malenkov
So far there has been no
deification of Malenkov com-
parable with that of Stalin.
“The | impression now being
given,” London “Economist”
has reported, “is that the chair-
man’s seat is properly Malen-
kov’s ; but there is a world of
difference between the chair-
man’s seat and the pedestal of a
deity.
“Malenkov is still shown
as the leader of a team, the
efficient manager distributing
praise and criticism, mapping
the road ahead and promising
good dividends for the nation;
Stalin was hailed both as the
Little Father and as a super-
natural leader of genius,
“It has been argued that
Malenkov has not the stature to
be raised to a comparable posi-
tion. Yet who in 1924 would
have predicted the future rise
of the grey, uninspiring general-
secretary?”
Vital Suez Issues
Recent discussions, reports
London “Daily Telegraph,”
have been confined to two final
issues, both presupposing British
withdrawal from the Suez base.
One has to do with the length
of time British technicians are
to stay on before handing over
to complete Egyptian control;
the other concerns conditions
under which British forces could
re-enter the Suez base in case of
war or the threat of war.
“What would constitute an
emergency calling for ‘reactiva-
tion’ of the base? Broadly
speaking, such an emergency
would be created by any aggres-
sion, or threat of attack, which
could best be countered by
forces based on the Canal Zone.
A war in Turkey or Persia, for
example, could certainly be so
defined. Egypt is so far appar-
ently not disposed to contem-
plate automatic re-entry save in
the event of direct attack upon
herself or upon one of her allies
in the Arab League.
“The weakness of any arrange-
ment on the present basis,


F==
£
4
\
i
LOD
A GOOD WHISKY
MUST BE AGED
only in the wood can age
be achieved; and McCallum’s
is mellowed with years
of care, and by the
skilled attention of
Scots distillers.
Wholly
distilled
and blended
in Scotland
the name is
(T) c Cdllums
, the whisky is
MCIB/6.2
f
HURRY
DEARTH
Featuring GEORGE FOSTER and a panel of outstanding women
Presented by Malgic Adrenaline Cream
2GB • SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2HR 2MW 2LF 2PK> 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA
The Macquarie Broadcasting Service
however carefully drawn, is that
it might be repudiated by some
future Egyptian Government
when an emergency arose. Gen.
Neguib’s good faith is not in
doubt, but even his regime has
shown itself dependent on
periodic appeal to the national-
ist xenophobia of the mob.
These passions would have to
be reckoned with by any Egyp-
tian Government contemplating
re-admission of foreign forces
to the Canal Zone.”
Whether Britain reaches agree-
ment with Egypt or not, it
would be folly not to take alter-
native measures for security:
“We possess in Cyprus and
Malta, and (since our recent
treaty with Libya) also in
Cyrenaica, bases where striking
forces can be held immediately
available. We certainly do not
wish, as Sir Winston Churchill
has said, to continue indefinitely
keeping 80,000 men in the Canal
Zone at a cost of £SO million a
year. Our aim is an agreement
enabling us to withdraw them
without prejudice to the defen-
sive task which we share with
our Allies, and without any of
the atmosphere of an igno-
minious scuttle.”
Waning Socialism
“New York Times” noting
the “waning power of the
Socialist doctrine of common
ownership of the means of pro-
duction, which hypnotised Euro-
pean labor at one time and
found its climax not only in the
Communist tyranny in Russia
but also in a rash of industrial
nationalisation elsewhere”:
“The general awakening from
the Socialist dream is evident
everywhere in free Europe. The
nationalisation process is re-
garded as finished in France,
Italy and Austria, and there may
be even, as in Britain, some
return of nationalised industries
to private hands.
“In Germany the Socialists
still demand the ‘general owner-
ship’ of the basic coal and steel
industries, but they freely admit
that British experience has dis-
illusioned them with Govern-
ment ownership and operation,
and that they are groping for
new forms of -public ownership’
which they have not yet found.
“There are many practical
reasons for this disillusion hav-
ing to do with problems of pro-
duction rather than distribution.
and with the role of labor con-
fronting the Government as its
main employer. But the chief
reason is the gradual realisation
that a concentration of both
political and economic power in
the hands of men constituting
the ‘Government’ leads to both
tyranny and misery, as in Soviet
Russia, and that only the libera-
tion of free energies leads to
national health, as in Germany
under its free-market economy.”
Soviet Strength
Malenkov’s claim that Russia
has the secret of the hydro-
gen-bomb should (insists a New
York “Herald Tribune” writer)
be considered against the back-
ground of a much larger whole,
as “one part in a gigantic
machine of Soviet power which
is now nearing completion”:
“The likelihood is strong that
the Soviet annual investment in
the atomic programme, guided-
missile development and other
special-weapon projects now
considerably exceeds similar
U.S. investments. Add the pro-
gress of the Soviet strategic Air
Force. Add, further, the Soviet
build-up which the U.S. Chiefs-
of-Staff have held will reach a
stage of acute danger in 1954.
“The sum of all the evidence
is a future danger for which, at
present, the U.S. is making no
adequate preparation.”
The emphasis, of course, is on
“adequate.” Uncle Sam is more
strongly prepared all round
than ever before, but the pres-
sure for reduced taxes is as great
as it is everywhere else in the
West, where, as another com-
mentator has put it, all poli-
ticians are much more frightened
of taxes than of atom-bombs.
Filmed Melba
London “Times’s” film viewer
(like Herbert Holman in his
Bulletin article from London)
was some way off being im-
pressed by the film “Melba.”
It having that one-word title
(the “Times” man said), the
notion could be that here was an
authoritative life-story of the
singer; but “even in print the
full facts about a famous per-
son recently dead are seldom set
out, and film-biography is in-
clined to falsify even more out-
rageously than the most fulsome
and inaccurate of written
works.”
Hence, it is best to regard the
production as “an ordinary
musical film centred in the
career of a singer and to forget
about Melba herself as much as
possible.
“Of first importance in a film
of this sort is, of course, the
voice of the heroine, and, how-
ever unlike the real Melba Miss
Patrice Munsel may be, her
voice comes well enough
through the many ordeals to
which it is subjected.
“The film sketches-in with a
hasty and inaccurate hand
Melba’s Australian background,
and it is only in the scenes in
New York “Herald Tribune”
HEADACHES FOR UNCLE
Paris when Melba is a pupil of
the great Marchesi that there
is any real attempt to convey
something of the struggle and
discipline which go to the form-
ing of an artist
“From then on the film is
little more than a series of
snippets from opera, most of
them conceived and executed in
the manner of a superior music-
hall turn. The voice of Miss
Munsel is always worth listen-
ing to ; but the screen is seldom
worth looking at.”
Various Voices
Gordon Dean, former head of
America’s vast atomic set-up:
“It is a shame that the United
States can’t even get a peek at
the independently - developed
British atomic bomb.” [lt was
the U.S., of course, which
imposed the “non-peeking.”]
South African Prime Minister,
Dr. Malan: “We have under-
takings in connection with the
Middle East, and it is essential
for us that the Suez Canal
should remain open. For that
reason we support Britain and
the other nations concerned in
the maintenance of the Suez
Canal, and if necessary a military
base in that area.”
Professor David N. Rowe,
of Yale University: “Three
years of war have not brought
us victory over Communist
aggression, and two years of
negotiation have brought us to
the brink of open violence
among the allies of the free
world. We now find ourselves
in the preposterous position of
having negotiated a truce which
is acceptable to our enemies, the
Chinese Communists, but is
largely unacceptable to our
Korean allies and is likely to
remain so.”
U.S. General Wedemeyer
{formerly an advocate of a
“tough” policy in Korea ); “The
United Nations should now get
out and stay out. Apparently
competent authorities have de-
cided that going on and winning
the war in the American tradi-
tion would be prohibitive.”
Adlai Stevenson {back in the
U.S. after his world tour ):
“India is potentially the area of
greatest collision between the
great Powers.”
Lord Beveridge: “Actual war
brings psychological change,
stimulating effort and calling
into production many till then
outside. Cold war on modern
lines is as expensive but does
not stimulate the individual in
the same way: to the ordinary
citizen it does not feel like war.
Yet it has nearly all the cost of
open war and threatens to lay
waste the world.”
General Mark Clark: “A sur-
vey of the human wreckage left
in the wake of the Korean con-
flict has revealed two unequi-
vocal facts. The first is that his-
tory has recorded few instances
wherein a nation’s children
have been cast into such depths
of misery and despair as have
the children of Korea during the
past three years. The second is
that never in history has any
group responded more whole-
heartedly or unselfishly to the
call of humanity than have the
members —individually and col-
lectively—of the United Nations
Command.”
Sir Norman Angell: “The
voice of the people is not always
the voice of God. Sometimes it
is the voice of the devil.”
Eugene Black, president of
the International Bank: “The
United States can hardly recon-
cile her position as the giant of
the world economy with the fear
of foreign competition which is
implied, and indeed expressed,
in the maintenance of high trade-
barriers and other restrictions
against foreign goods. The con-
sequence of these restrictions is
to deprive foreign countries of
opportunities with which to pur-
chase American goods and to
service the American people,”


STOP PAIN!
DOLGIM
QUICKLY
EASES
fttisw
R HE« M
TIC*
SCI*
o BIT'S
b aO°
lU“
tv"'-
F :
HEW
;
rß**
RHEUMATISM!
No matter how much you’ve suffered in the past,
you can be sure that Dolcin will give you prompt
and prolonged relief from the pains of arthritis,
rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, neuritis and gout.
Since Dolcin was perfected l?y American scientists
five years ago, thousands of men and women through-
out the world have proven its effectiveness. An
endless stream of letters of thanks
testify that Dolcin has given
prompt relief where all other
treatments have failed.
too TABLETS
FOR 12/6
Get relief from pain today
TRADE MARK
FOR ALL RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS
Write for informative literature to Dolcin (Australia) Pty. Ltd.,
Box 1552, G.P.0., Sydney.
■ssr
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest ”* eB,
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
they get unless it’s the right
one. They won’t try to blow
out the right one, because they
wouldn’t believe it, anyhow. Not
when they know me. They
wouldn’t believe me about
Nugget and Lily. No, they
wouldn’t believe that. Maybe he
asks me I give him the story
straight and save some more
time for Nugget while Keough
"ok’up som°<£-
“Look, Delaney, you’re the
pigeon. You realise we got you
and we got enough to stand you
up in the dock for murder?”
“That’s what you say.”
“Whyn’t you tell us about
that row you had with Mar-
tini?”
Here it is again. Back to the
row. You talk about the row,
Del, you’re not paying Nugget
back for New Guinea ; you’re
putting on a blue for him same
as the one you got for yourself.
So you watch it, boy.
“I told you.. The row is noth-
ing to do with Martini getting
shot. Nothing at all.”
“You’re sticking to that.”
“Like a burr to a blanket.”
He leans back and rests his
hands on the chair-arms and it
look s again like he’s asleep.
II s Afferent from last night.
This big detective is slow this
morning. He don t fire so many
questions and he does more
thinking in between. 1 get to
wondering if anything new
come up.
Peters come up, that’s it.
Peters shoots through and it
makes another angle, and they’re
not quite so happy about having
me, because if Im the P ea w hy
does Peters shoot through. If
Peters is the pea why did
Delaney shoot through? Well
I know why Delaney shot
through, but Irn not talking
about that. Maybe they better
locate Peters first, before they
double their bets on me. Maybe,
the way they see it this morn-
ing, Peters and me is two peas
and they can’t do anything until
they get both peas in their pod.
All right, that’ll do me. I’ll wait
and see how it looks. I’ll make
one bet while I’m waiting: It’s
guineas to gooseberries someone
is stirring them about Martini,
because of his political friends
and his racehorses and the big-
time women he knows. It’s a big
stew, my oath, and I’m just a
little, weeny pea getting shoved
around in it. Oh, well, you’re in
this game you’re on your own,
no matter how big the stew.
“I think I’ll let you go,” he
says, sudden.
I sit up in my chair. The big
eyebrows hides his eyes, and
I can’t tell what he’s holding.
“But don’t leave town or I’ll
snatch you back,” he says.
“So you ain’t holding me on
suspicion no more?”
“Where do you get that ‘hold-
ing on suspicion’ stuff? You
must have been reading them
crime books.”
“Well, what you holding me
for?”
“I wouldn’t worry about that.
You make a noise about that
and we’ll slap a vagrancy charge
on you and hold you some more.
You got to stay right here in
Black Springs till we say you
can go. Get that straight,
Delaney. Now ? how’ll you have
it? Here in the cage or let
loose in the town?”
“In the town, I reckon. But
I got to eat and have some place
to sleep. I’m broke.”
He went out and I sat there.
I wasn’t worried so much. I
have to stay in Black Springs
I’d sooner outside the cage than
in. I’d eat, too, and sleep in a
bed. There was ways I knew
about. Maybe there was geezers
in this Black Springs fingering
dough they wouldn’t have in a
day or two. Maybe it was a
town wide open for a little quick
business, one way or another.
This big detective come back
and put forty shillings on the
table.
“There’s two quid,” he said.
“It’s sustenance money for
temporary unemployed. It’ll
keep you a coupler days. Get
yourself a job. Sign here.”
I put my monicker on the
paper he shoves at me and rake
up the forty deeners.
“Is jobs so easy here? You
going to gimme a reference?”
“You’ll get a job if you look
for it. It’s got to be within five
miles of here, get that. And you
got to report here every day to
me.”
“Who do I ask for?”
“Detective-sergeant Keough.
That’s me. Every day, mind.”
“How long you reckon I’ll
keep a job the boss finds out
I got to report to you?”
“Report at night. You see me
in the street, maybe, that’ll do.
We won’t broadcast it if you
won’t.”
“You got nothing on me.
Mister Keough. What right you
got to keep me in this dump?”
I was standing up. He
reached out and shoved me
down in the chair and there’s a
wild look on him like he’s dis-
gusted and impatient and likely
to get tough.
“You’re a first-class mug,” he
blares at me. “You think I
haven’t asked yffiy you bolted
from St. Kilda because I over-
looked it. I didn’t. You think
I don’t want to know how you
come here, all that way from
Martini’s? I do. You think I
won’t find out about that row
you had? I will. You think —
oh, hell, wake up to yourself,
Delaney. Stop kidding your-
self you’re smart and shrewd.
You’re not. I could put you
on a murder charge this bloody
minute, and strike me blue if I
don’t know why I don’t. Maybe
you think I’m soft. Forget it.
You got some reason for not
talking about the row, but you’re
not giving it till you have to.
That’s why I’m letting you loose
just now. We could beat it out
of you, but that can wait. You’re
not helping anybody, not even
yourself. Now get out and get
quick, or I’ll bung a charge on
you.”
I stand there, looking at him.
Because he’s like he’ll burst, and
even if he is turning me loose
he can snatch me back, like he
says, and I can’t do a thing
about it. I don’t want him to
burst, so I stand there, gaping at
him. Then I shove the forty
deeners in my kick and turn
round and walk out.
So I’m out and there’s this
Black Springs town waiting to
give me a job, and wherever I
go and whatever I do the police
will know about me, and they
can snatch me back any time
they want. Martini is dead and
Peters taken a powder and I’m
still the pea. But they don’t
know about Nugget and Lily,
and they’re getting stirred from
somewhere on top about Mar-
tini, and I just got to wait for
the breaks. But this Keough
thinks I’m going to work the
way he means he’s got another
think coming. Me and Nugget
was in New Guinea getting our-
selves shot at for this damn’
country and pushing a shovel or
humping sacks or steering a
truck is no way to collect for it.
Because there’s easier ways to
get it, and 1 been getting it easy
too long to start sweating for it.
So I go out, and it’s raining a
little and there’s a cold wind
and I got to locate a hotel and
take a good sleep and tonight
I’ll be looking this Black Springs
town straight in the pocket.
(To be continued next week)
and, without waiting to hear an
answer, Mrs. McFluster, a crane-
necked, antagonistic old aunt of
Mary Gray’s, said her man
(meaning McFluster) didn’t be-
lieve in Griffith at all. In Mrs.
McFluster’s own sinewy opinion
he was of no account. She was
proceeding to make remarks
about him when Dad’s voice
fairly shook the partition. Dad
believed in Griffith as he did in
milk. He was Dad’s political
god.
Mrs. McFluster pricked her
ears. “What’s he saying?” she
asked of Mrs. Higgins.
“Where the devil’s there a
better man for the coqntry?”
Dad shouted, his voice quiver-
ing with rage.
“Thun wno?” Mrs. McFluster
shouted back.
“Than Griffith!” (very loud).
“Mcllwraith is,” squealed
Mrs. McFluster. “Mcllwraith is,
Mcllwraith!”
“Never in his life! Rubbish! ”
Dad roared, raising himself on
his elbow in the bed and glaring
at the wall. “Pshaw! Y’ don’t
know the ruffian!”
Fire flashed from Mrs. Mc-
Fluster’s eyes as she stood up
and faced the wall on the other
side.
“He is, doesn’t everyone know
it?”
“A lie, woman ; no one knows
it.”
Mrs. Higgins and some more
tugged at Mrs. McFluster’s skirts
to induce her, in the interests of
peace, to desist.
“Name me one act,” Dad
yelled, “one single act of Mc-
Ilwraith’s that was ever any
good to the country. Name one,
name it!”
Mrs. McFluster, struggling to
disengage herself from the
clutches of her scared niece
and Mrs. Higgins, lost the thread
of the argument.
Encouraged by the lady]s
silence, Dad got fairly on his
mettle. Forgetting his bruised
back, he bounded clean out of
bed and grabbed his trousers.
“Name one!” he continued,
yelling while he fumbled the gar-
ment excitedly.
“Name one single”—he got
one leg in, and, giving the pants
a tug, sprang to the door, which
he opened just wide enough to
disclose his face and the leg that
was clothed (the rest of him was
concealed) —“one single act” —
fixing Mrs. McFluster with a
wild eye to keep her to the point
—“of your Mcllwraith’s that
was ever any good to the coun-
try. Name it! ”
“The school,” Mrs. McFluster
screeched, flying at Dad like a
wildcat. “The school, the dam,
the —the roads, an’ ”
“Dammit, woman, they’re
Griffith’s!” And in his excite-
ment Dad threw open the door
and stepped right out, waving
his right hand (the left held up
his trousers) and swinging an
empty trouser-leg and display-
ing a huge undressed limb, all
hair and joints. Sensation!
Girls squealed and jumped up
and ran out in disorder.
“Father! Father! ” Mother
pleaded, placing her hands
lightly on Dad to restrain him.
“Fanny!” Mrs. Bruse called
to her daughter. “Fanny, come
home.”
“I declare to God,” Miss
Mahony (a single old body,
grave and religious) cried as she
hurried away, “the man have no
trousers on. Shame for him!”
And when she reached the
door she turned and cast another
glance of reprobation at Dad,
then, passing the window, out-
side, looked in once more to
satisfy herself that she wasn’t
doing him an injustice after all.
But Mrs. McFluster saw noth-
ing wrong. She stood up to
Dad and stamped her foot and
squealed out “It’s a lie! It’s a
lie!” —until Dave came in with
a run, seized Dad in his arms
and carried him back to bed.
Dad ceased yelling and
calmed down, and was taking
kindly to a basin of gruel Mother
brought him when someone
knocked at the door again.
Mother answered the call.
It was Mr. Macfarlane, the
minister. He smiled and
squeezed Mother’s hand, then
his face changed its expression.
He became solemn as a death
sentence. He had heard Dad was
in a high fever and spoke in a
low anxious tone about him. He
wouldn’t see Dad —he thought it
well he shouldn’t be disturbed —
and he suggested a short prayer
for his recovery.
Sarah came, and Mother sent
her to call the boys.
“Youse fellows is wanted at
the house,” Dave said to Joe
and Bill, neither of whom knew
the minister was there. Then
Dave, who did know, went away
to close the slip-rails in the
seventeen-acres. He took till
night to close those slip-rails.
The minister was proceeding
in soft, solemn tones to pray
when Dad’s voice broke in upon
the service.
“Ellen!” he called. Joe
grinned. Mother fidgeted.
“Ellen!” he called more
loudly.
“Grant them strength to bear
their trial,” came feelingly from
the good minister. “Where the
devil’ve they gone t’, El-len?”
came from Dad.
“Restore our dear brother to
health, and”
There was an irreverent inter-
ruption.
“Damn it!” Dad yelled,
punching the partition with his
fist till it seemed the house
would fall. “Damn it!”
Mother went into him.
“Where the devil’ve y’ been?”
Dad roared.
Mother motioned him to be
silent, and whispered that the
minister was in the dining-room.
Dad howled harder. “Has he
brought Darkey back?” Darkey
was a horse Dad had lent the
parson some weeks before.
Mother thought it wise to
answer in the affirmative, and
told a lie.
“Has he been feeding him?
Mother lied again.
“Has he fetched the ten shil-
lings he borrowed?”
“He’s wandering,” the minister
remarked to Sarah. “They all
do in fever.” Then he thought
he would be going and went
away.
(To be continued next week )
TRAMP AND TREE
Now no refreshment in a sky
turned down, a lees-less chalice;
his mind can mint no alibi
to mulct earth’s miles of malice;
for mind must be, as miles are,
flayed
of all save death’s own stigil
and one ebbed tree, one lapsing
shade,
that mimes a steeple vigil.
So, with his Chinese - colored
claws,
and mad, he treeward falters,
falls and crawls, no nearer draws,
and falls. But nothing alters.
The tree stands starved a life
away
and dying—shade too dying;
and he cannot outreach the day
to die beneath it lying;
for now, a death away, he lies
defrauded of his fable
will not from this vast menu rise
nor quit this edgeless table.
The tramp, the tree, eat loneli-
ness-
the miles between still lying—
and hear and see no creature bless
their gluttony of dying.
Near, in airpipe refectories,
the ant and woodlice people
with savage clang dance ecstasies
for manna man and steeple.
VICTORIA.
HAL PORTER.


The NfW Mobil co
Grain Auger Bale Elevator
Dual Purpose
with Dust-Proof
Sealed Transmission •
m
itm
£
PATENTS
PENDING
* Here's the new Grain Auger the
MOBILCO, which brings to the Aus-
tralian Farmer all the advantages of
completely sealed, positive-power,
bevel gear transmission. Look it over
point by point, compare it with all
you've ever wanted in a wheat auger
and it's all there speed, power,
lightness, strength, manoeuvrability,
reliability . . . they're all there in the
NEW Mobilco ... and they will stay
there through a lifetime of trouble free
running. Yes, this season more than
ever, men who know will use Mobilco.
LOOK WHAT YOU GET WITH MOBILCO
Quick-change Extension Piece
Basic 20 ft. Model can be made into
24, 29 or 33 ft. lengths by adding
quick-fit extension pieces. Top section
of auger (above) can be fitted to bot-
tom to make long snout to fit deep
into silos for emptying. Mobilco makes
a complete range of Augers from 20
to 42 feet in length.
Engine Suspension
Strong steel cradle is centrally sus-
pended for perfect balance. Smooth
action compensating device keeps
engine vertical at all Auger elevation
angles.
Positive Action Clutch
Hand lever action combines gentle take-up movement with
positive, slip-free final engagement. 4 stroke petrol engine
(5 or 7 h.p. according to Auger size) supplies all the power you
need. Engine starts easily. It if governed and runs for three
hours on one gallon of petrol.
Ratchet and Safety Catch Winch
Double handled winch with automatic safety catch holds auger
firmly at all elevations. Maximum vertical heights, ground to
output chute: 20 ft. model, 14 ft. 9 ins.; 24 ft., 17 ft. 9 ins.;
29 ft., 20 ft. 9 ins.; 33 ft., 23 ft. 9 ins.; 42 ft. model, 31 ft.
m
m
mMm
m
BAG AND BALE
ELEVATOR ATTACH MEN!
See what you get with
Mobilco—two machines
in one ... a Wheat
Auget to work at har-
vest time and a first
class elevator to work
all the year round. It's
a big saving on farm
plant costs when you
buy two machines in
one.
NOT LONG TILL HARVEST
TIME. WRITE TODAY FOR
DETAILS OF THE NEW
MOBILCO. GUARANTEED
TWO YEARS.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE; LF 4209 - - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - PHONE: WU 1081 {9 LINES)
BRANCHES- BRISBANE. ADELAIDE. PERTH, LAUNCESTON - AGENTS: ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUST.
MOBIICO
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Memoirs of
William Cox, J.P. and The Evolution
of the Australian Merino by E. W.
Cox. —5602.
To buy copies of the “Lone Hand”
for March, 1908; October, 1909;
October, 1910; and May, 1911.—5603.
To buy copies of “Desiderata,”
No. 34, 35, 36 and 37.—5604.
To buy copies of the Melbourne
magazines “Verse” and “Spinner.’ ,, —
5605.
To buy any books by Wallace
Nelson. —5606.
Information Sought
7 am told that Cleopatra was Greek,
not Egyptian? Is this correct?
In so far as Cleopatra was Queen
of Egypt, she was an Egyptian; but
she was of Greek descent. When
Alexander the Great died (323 b.c.)
he left no direct successor, and his
empire was divided-up among three
of his generals. Alexander, con-
queror of Persia, Egypt and other
parts of Asia, was originally King
of Macedonia (northern Greece), and
he and his generals were therefore
Greeks. (Apropos, Demosthenes, the
Athenian orator, for one, refused to
regard Macedonians as Greeks, but
historians now know that they were
closely kin to the other Greeks.) One
of the three generals, named Ptolemy,
known as Ptolemy Soter (or Saviour),
seized Egypt. He founded the line
of Ptolemies who ruled Egypt till
the death of Cleopatra, who was the
last of the line (30 8.c.). Cleopatra
was thus of Greek descent, and prob-
ably had no Egyptian Mood at all,
as it was the usual custom of the
Pharaohs (followed by the Ptolemies)
for brother to marry sister.
* * * *
What wus the English Parliamen-
tary Act known _ as “The Six
Articles” ? ,
A statute passed in 1539 declaring
in favor of the “Real Presence” in
the Lord’s Supper, clerical celibacy,
auricular confession, etc. Whoever
spoke against the first was to be
burnt; whoever spoke against the
others was to suffer loss of goods
and imprisonment, and to be hanged
for a repetition of the offence. The
Act marked the return of Henry VIII,
after Thomas Cromwell’s loss of
influence, to “Catholicism without the
Pope.” The Protestants called it the
“whip with six strings.” It was
repealed in 1547.
* * * *
How can I tell which is the first
edition of “When I was King and
Other Verses” by Henry Lawson ?
Whilst two editions were published
in 1906 by Messrs. Angus and
Robertson, the first edition may be
easily distinguished by an examina-
tion of the frontispiece which was
drawn by Norman Lindsay. The
barman, as originally depicted, has a
luxurious black beard. Apparently
the likeness was too dose to someone
of importance, for in subsequent
editions the barman is wearing a
moustache and the beard is gone.
You probably know that the poem
referred to in the preface as having
been omitted from later editions of
When the World Was Wide and re-
stored to print in When I Was King
is “When Your Pants Begin to Go.”
* * * *
Did Havelock Ellis visit Australia ?
According to his autobiography
Havelock Ellis visited Australia twice.
In My Life (1940) he devotes 40 pages
to his Australian experiences. He
first came here in 1865, when six
years of age, and again in 1875. On
the second occasion he became a
schoolteacher, and also matriculated
for, but did not attend, Sydney Uni-
versity. For a time he was school-
teaching, first at Sparkes Creek and
then at Burwood (N.S.W.). He left
Australia in 1879. His novel Kanga
Creek (an early publication by the
Golden Cockerel Press) is based on
his experience at Sparkes Creek,
Liverpool Ranges (N.S.W.). He ap-
peared to retain an interest in Aus-
tralian affairs and was friendly with
the late W. J. Chidley.
* * * *
(1) Titles of the works of Ralph
Waldo Emerson? (2) Names of
books of criticism of his works? (3)
List of biographies?
(1) Emerson (1803-82) was poet,
essayist and lecturer. His prose
works, except for a slender volume
entitled Nature (1836), were collected
and arranged from the MSS. of his
lectures. They are Essays (Ist series,
1841; 2nd series, 1844), Representa-
tive Men (1850), The Conduct of Life
(1860), Society and Solitude (1870)
and Letters and Social Aims (1876).
Besides these, many other lectures
were printed separately. He also pub-
lished two volumes of verse {Poems,
1847, May Day and Other Pieces
1867). (2) Special studies include
Joel Benton’s Emerson as a Poet
(1883), Elizabeth L. Cary’s Emerson,
Poet and Thinker (1904), H. D.
Gray’s Emerson (1917), an exposi-
tion of his philosophy and of
Transcendentalism, in which Emerson
was absorbed, and J. A. Hill’s Emer-
son and His Philosophy (1919). (-3)
Too many to list. They include
studies by J. E. Cabot (the authorised
biography, 1887), Marie Dugard
(1907), O. W. Firkins (1915), 6. W.
Holmes (1885) and D. J. Snider
(1921).
Brief Answers
L.H.S.: The N.S.W. Nurses’
Registration Act does not make any
provision for transfer of a student
nurse from one training-school to
another. However, it is in order for
a trainee to resign from one school
and on recommencing training else-
where to apply to the Nurses’ Regis-
tration Board for recognition of pre-
vious training. Each case is con-
sidered individually and cm its merits,
but whether credit is given for the
full amount of previous training is
dependent on several factors
K.J.A.: Human Drift was Leonard
Mann’s second novel... .J.S.R.:
Roderic Quinn was bom in 1867, the
same year as Henry Lawson....
D.E.S.: The verses appear in Peter
Hopegood’s Circus at World’s End,
obtainable from Angus and Robert-
son, Ltd., Sydney... .C.H.S.: “Urea”
is obtainable from Flak Industries,
10 Council-street, St. Peters (N.S.W.).
F.S.S.: Write to the secretary,
the Book Collectors’ Society of Aus-
tralia, Box 905, G.P.0., Sydney....
W.S.: Ruth Bedford has had a
number of books published in Eng-
land J.M.K.: The first volume of
Australian Poetry appeared in 1941,
and was edited by Douglas Stewart.
8.8.: The artist J. Muir Auld
painted a portrait of Roderic Quinn
in 1929. It was purchased from the
artist by the trustees of the National
Art Gallery of N. S. Wales
S.M.F.: Write Dept, of Immigration
and Tourist Activities, 169 Phillip-
street, Sydney T.O’il.: Charles
Web Gilbert, the sculptor, designed
the Australian War Memorials at
Mont St. Quentin and Port Said....
F.McG.; A common tropical weed,
Sida rhombifolia, known usually as
Queensland hemp, is in some States
known as native lucerne or Paddy’s
lucerne... .D.S.G.: See Tillyard’s
Insects of Australia and New Zealand.
R.P.: The book is The Aus-
tralian Captive; Or, An Authentic
Narrative of Fifteen Years in the
Life of William Jackman, edited by
L. Chamberlayne and published in
London in 1853. A copy can be
seen at the Mitchell Library, Sydney.
C.L.J.: In 1910 a Rugby Union
team from the United States visited
Australia; it was beaten in five
out of the eight matches played
R.McW.: The first dramatic perform-
ance in Melbourne, given as a hos-
pital benefit on February 1, 1842,
under the management of George
Buckingham, was “The Widow’s Vic-
tim,” with an afterpiece, “The Lottery
Ticket”.... .P.H.W.: See for the
earlier voyages Mills’s Siege of the
South Pole; for those after 1900 and
to 1917, Scott’s Voyage of Discovery,
Shackleton’s Heart of the Antarctic,
Scott’s Last Expedition, Mawson’s
Home of the Blizzard, Taylor’s With
Scott and The Silver Lining and
Davis’s With the Aurora in the
Antarctic... .A.J.McL.: The Aus-
tralian representative of the kestrels
is the nankeen kestrel, the com-
monest of all hawks throughout Aus-
tralia and Tasmania. It is often
called “sparrowhawk,” but this name
gives an erroneous idea of its habits,
and belongs to a very different species.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
J.R.F.: Words, words, words!
R.G.: A pale and negative little
effort KJ.M.: Not without
promise, but you will need to con-
dense yoar writings P.W.: Not in
the market for something that seems
as if it could well have come out of
a guide-book J.M.: As soon as
we sighted the pretty V.A.D. we
could hear the wedding-bells ring.
....BJ.: “Come, and I will take
you to fairyland.” Our colonial oath,
you won’t E.F.: If that sample
is the result, we would advise you
to give up burning the midnight oil.
D.McM.: Too many cricket-
stories end with a hit over the boun-
dary and a win for' the home team.
K.J.S.: Send it to a magazine
which trades in that class of material.
S.B.: A golf-story needs to be
more than a mere stroke-by-stroke
description of a game L.D.: We
are prepared to bet that you have
never met a poet in your life
S.F.E.: Don’t Jet the fact that you
can’t spell deter you from putting
your ideas down on paper. Henry
Lawson wasn’t much good at spelling.
. ...R.P.L.: Too gushing for our
pages C.D.A.: It finished-up m
the basket F.N.8.: You seem to
have the wrong notion about bull-
dogs S.G.D.: Keep on trying
E.A.T. : Well, at least we got a laugh
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
out of your covering letter....,
H.M.G.: You might find a home
for your atom-spy in another journal.
N.P.H.: “Nan’s First Love-
affair” a little too sugary for us
M.J.: Thrown overboard J.D.H.:
Those nippers were much too over-
powering L.M.; It reminds us
of a familiar O. Henry story.
J.D.; Story about a hangover
was painful reading S.McL.: “The
Fool of the Family” is on his way
home A.8.W.: We have a special
page in our black book for those
who will insist on typing on both
sides of the paper R.C.W.: Afraid
it won’t help to keep your landlady
quiet.


FOR BEAUTY
AND PERMANENCY
Wunderlich AAetal Ceilings are
renowned. Use them in your
new home or to cover existing
stained or faulty ceilings.
Call at our Baptist St., Redfern
Showrooms, Phone MX 2411 or
write Wunderlich Limited, Box
474, G.P.0., Sydney for designs
and prices.
H
etal Ceilings
un
'
c/er/ic/i
BCAUTIfUI* URMANtNT • MODERN
Chemistry Serving Primary Industry
MIL
i'.:'
mi
I
DDT
FIELD CROP
SPRAY
MIXES EASILY WITH WATER
*
RULENI
DDT FIELD CROP SPRAY FOR LINSEED.
OATS, BARLEY. LUCERNE. SORGHUM
Manufactured by Australia’s largest producers of DDT.
TAUBMANS CHEMICALS PTY. LIMITED
-MEWCASTUE, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,-ADELAIDE, PERTH
A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
HVGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Oivea you the advantage* of leverage n*
matter where your home may he.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
df
NO
EMPTYING
NO
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage !•
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY GO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established £2 years.
Write for free illustrated
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Diet. Co.
(N.S.W.)f 82 Goulbum St., Sydney-
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Disadvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
’ (Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 160 Collins St.,
Melbourne. _ .
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Rundl
St., Adelaide. D „
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P-■ “ c
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 411 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Taa.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Lann-
DARWIN: 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services. . ,
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dteol-
. Venator Co. (N.Z.), We!lesle>
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Changing Face
“C.S.”: Improved pastures are
changing the face of inland and
southern N.S.W., according to
H. N. Sarina, R.A.S. Registrar,
who says thousands of acres of
lucerne, sub.-plover, white-clover,
barrel - medic, Wimmera - rye,
H.I.-rye, phalaris and paspalum
pastures now cover land that
once grew only native grasses.
These stands, together with large
reserves of hard fodder, had sub-
stantially increased livestock
carrying-capacity this year on
many properties.
Sarina said that 19 properties
in the R.A.S. farm and fodder
championships had shown how
the improved-pasture-conserved-
fodder combination could take
the sting from winter and
drought hazards. On the farms
placed first in each of the five
divisions, 4132 acres of a total
of 6429 acres was sown to
improved pastures, an average
of 64 per cent.
On G. H. Windus’s property
at Manildra (central tablelands)
about 93 per cent, of the 840
acres is sown to improved
pastures. No farm in the com-
petition had less than 50 per
cent, sown to improved grasses.
Conserved fodder included
lucerne - hay, clover - hay,
wheaten-hay, pasture-hay, silage,
wheat and oats. Two farms had
excellent stands of grazing oats
which had provided invaluable
feed for livestock during the
cold, dry winter and relief on
sown pastures when most
needed.
Lucerne was the basis of a
pasture-improvement programme
on the 986-acre property of
D. A. Cavanagh, Yaralla,
Ulamambri (northern inland).
The farm had several well-
established stands, also newly-
sown stands, which had
responded remarkably to super,
earlier in the year. Cavanagh has
been testing other pasture-mix-
tures for several years, and was
successful with early and mid-
season strains of sub.-clover,
barrel - medic and phalaris
tuberosa. Good use of 110 acres
of grazing oats, plus handfeeding
with hay, had helped carry about
1380 sheep through the dry
winter in very good condition.
The property had considerable
reserves of hay and grain stored
in well-constructed sheds.
On the C. J. Caldwell farm at
Wallendbeen (southern table-
lands), there had been good
winter rains, and the Caldwells
fed their stock more than 2000
bales of hay between April and
mid-August to balance rich but
sappy pastures. Asa result sheep
and 80-head of cattle had come
through winter in splendid con-
dition. The cattle were now
grazing on new spring pastures
before the sheep were let in.
This farm set a record for
carrying-capacity with 1611 acres
carrying the equivalent of three
and a half sheep to the acre.
Fodder reserves consisted of 330
tons of hay and 2250 bushels of
oats, all stored under cover.
At Grenfell (central inland),
R, R. Johnson and Son pro-
vided a good instance of how the
improved - pastures - conserved-
fodder combination took up the
slack when one or the other was
affected by seasonal conditions.
Over 800 of the farm’s 1660
acres consisted of improved
pastures, but they had suffered
to an extent from a dry winter.
Despite this, handfeeding of con-
served fodder had enabled the
Johnsons to carry the equivalent
of 1840 sheep, including 35-head
of cattle, through the winter in
excellent shape. They still have
sizeable reserves of silage, oats,
wheat and wheaten-hay on the
property. An additional reserve
of clover-hay, most of which the
Johnsons baled at night, is of the
highest nutritional quality.
The 1332-acre farm of N. W.
Crosbie, Finley (southern
inland), is an example of how
irrigation, wise subdivision and
good management can make
mixed farming possible on an
intensive scale, rare for inland
areas. The 722 acres of improved
pastures are well balanced, and,
with irrigation, provide ample
green-feed all the year round. A
system of channels flood-irrigate
about 250 acres, while ground
tanks are available for the stock.
The farm carries 1470 sheep for
fat lambs, 50 Friesians, and a
“We're just working out a new dance-rhythm , Dad ."
sideline herd of pigs. Fodder
reserves include stocks of hay
under cover, grain and silage.
The five divisional champions
are: Central Tablelands, G. H.
Windus, Boxleigh, Manildra, 1;
H. J. Balcomb and Sons,
Tekoona, Toogong, 2. Southern
Tablelands, C. J. and Mrs. A,
Caldwell, Yandilla, Wallend-
been, 1; C. R. and V. E. Brad-
ford, Corringle, Nubba, 2.
Central Inland, R. R. Johnson
and Son, Umaria, Grenfell, 1 ;
A. N. Ferguson and Son, Old
Mundar, Curban, 2. Southern
Inland, N. W. Crosbie, Belvedere
Park, Finley, 1; W. C. Schulz
and Son, Willurah, Table Top,
2. Northern Inland, D. A.
Cavanagh, Yaralla, Ulamambri,
1 ; F. E. Robinson, Carrawatha,
Piallaway, 2.
Crossbred Wool
“Big Billy”: Broadly, cross-
bred or pure British-breed long-
wool fleeces don’t require to be
skirted as deeply as Merino or
finer comeback fleeces. Simply
remove the sweaty, short, dull or
obviously inferior pieces from
the edge of the fleeces, taking
care not to skirt off any good
fleece wool. In some districts the
neck or brisket wool will be fast
or cotted and should be taken off,
but usually it is not necessary to
go deeply into this portion.
In a large clip the bulk of
Which consists of comeback and
fine crossbred fleeces the follow-
ing lines are suggested: AAA
CBK: Most attractive, best-
grown light condition fleeces of
60/64’s quality; AA CBK:
Same type of fleeces but of
58 / 60’s quality ; A CBK: Re-
ject fleeces from preceding two
lines; AAA XBD: Best fleeces
of 56/58’s quality; AA XBD:
Best fleeces of 50/56’s quality;
A XBD: Reject fleeces from
AAA and AA XBD lines.
If the proportion of reject
fleeces in the comeback and/or
crossbred quality-ranges is very
large it might be advisable to
make two lines of reject fleeces,
separating them according to
quality. * ;
In the average 8.L.-Merino
crossbred clip wool could be
graded as follows: AA CBK:
Best of finest quality (60/58’s);
A CBK: Secondary fleeces of
finest-quality group; AAA
XBD: Most attractive and best-
grown medium quality (56/58 s
quality); AA XBD; Stronger
quality than AAA XBD, but
otherwise attractive (quality,
50/46’s); A XBD: Inferior
reject fleeces from the AAA and
AA XBD lines.
In smaller crossbred clips
fleeces could be graded as fol-
lows ; CBK: All good fleeces of
comeback quality-range ; AAA
XBD: Best of fine quality
(56/58’s); AA XBD: Best of
46/50’s quality,; A XBD : In-
ferior fleeces.
Butterfat Production
“Centurion”: Pasture-
improvement and good grazing-
management won F. A. Reiter,
of Berry’s Creek, Gippsland, the
championship dairy award (Vic-
toria) for 1952. The 124-acre
property, divided into 17 pad-
docks, produced good feed at
all seasons.
Western District perennial
rye-grass and white-clover are
the basis of the pasture-mix-
tures. The addition of straw-
berry-clover and red-clover pro-
vided green picking in dry con-
ditions, which can occur about
February in this district.
By keeping abreast with the
latest experiments, the possi-
bilities of H.I. (New Zealand
short-rotation rye-grass) were
tried in the pasture-mixtures,
and produced excellent winter
and early-spring feed. The wet
conditions of 1952 necessitated
heavy feeding of hay to the herd,
and stocks were reduced to a
low level. H. 1., however, saved
the situation, and during a
’short spell of warmer weather in
August it came away quickly
and gave high-quality grazing
badly needed by newly-calved
cows. Top-dressing with 2cwt.
of super, per acre established
the pasture.
Careful grazing-management
of special-purpose species of
grasses enabled them to give of
their best. This was achieved by
strip-grazing and through intelli-
gent use of portable electric
fences and pasture-harrows.
Production of butterfat was
maintained through the winter
by conserved silage and hay.
Ragwort was eliminated by
spraying hormone weedicide. In
one season alone Reiter hand-
sprayed 800 gal. of this weed-
killer. Bracken was eradicated
by cutting four times from its
maximum-growth stage till
Christmas, and up to 10 times
for the year.
Production figures were:
1946- 93221 b. of butterfat;
1947- 11,2061 b.; 1948-49,
12,6971 b.; 1949-50, 15,9081 b.;
1950-51, 17,2521 b.; 1951-52,
over 18,0001 b.
Trees as Feed
“F.H.”: Mucilagenous pulp
of centuries-old bottle-trees is
saving cattle in parched north-
western Australia. Starving
stock are eating out the fibrous
trunks of the trees, many of
which have split and crumpled
under the weight of their own
great bulk during the drought,
Owner of Fossil Downs, in the
West Kimberleys, W. N. M.
Macdonald, says some of the
trees grew to a height of 45ft,
attaining a circumference of
about 60ft. During the recent
drought the trunks had split,
spilling out hundreds of gallons
of water carried in trunks,
branches and limbs. The great
weight of the upper limbs then
tore away the trunk.
It was common now at Fossil
Downs to see 20 or 30 cattle
clustered around the shell of a
bottle-tree. Inside the trunk
might be another two or three
cattle feeding on the wood, until
eventually nothing was left of a
once-mighty tree. Between 40
and 50 per cent, of the stock at
Fossil Downs are Poll Short-
horns.
Against ’Hoppers
“Eulo”: Modern chemicals
and methods give farmers a
chance to beat grasshoppers be-
fore they get away in swarms.
The chlorinated organic in-
secticides 8.H.C., chlordane,
dieldrin and aldrin are all good,
and B.H.C. is the only one in
plentiful supply. It stops ’em
when used at the small rate of
4oz, to the acre. It can be
sprayed directly on to swarms
or on to crops or pastures
ahead of them.
Boom-spray is the way to do
it. Booms now made in Aus-
tralia range in length from
about 12ft. to 60ft., with spray-
nozzles about every 16in. Their
pumps are driven from the
power take-off of a tractor or a
separate engine. They have very
fine nozzles, which makes the
water-consumption lighter in
dry areas. Five to 10 gallons
of spray will easily cover an
acre. Cost of spraying B.H.C.
by this means is about 15s. an
acre.
New Soil-conditioner
“Condo”: Flotal, a new soil-
conditioner, is believed to be
identical with an organic iron-
ammonium compound dis-
covered originally in Italy and


SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
761bs.
V •
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers’
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
/ S' s
s s /
'> /
S/ / /
S / s / /
/ / / ./,: /
/ /,
m
is
THIS
POPUIAR
MOST
■•: :>•
m
in
m
vjorio
GOODYEAR
TYRES
More people ride and more tons are hauled,
the world over, on Goodyear Tyres
than on any other make.
USD A
used successfully there for im-
proving the physical structure of
heavy clay soils.
This makes Flotal different
from other soil-conditioners,
which are mostly a long-lasting
product of humus. The Italian
conditioner, now being manu-
factured in California, appears
to have a substantially lower
cost of application per square
yard of soil.
Linseed Farce
“Linum”: Some sort of a
farce seems to have occurred
with linseed-growing. At a meet-
ing in April, 1952, of the Aus-
tralian Agricultural Council,
production-aims considered to
be desirable and practicable for
major commodities in five years’
time were “subjected to critical
study” and unanimously
adopted. It was indicated that
the production-levels set were
not even to be regarded as a
maximum, but merely a “first
stage” in the effort to expand
production, and that all official
resources should be devoted to
exceeding those levels.
Allegedly because of the very
great importance of local linseed
this crop was included in the
list designed for increased pro-
duction.
But the A.A.C. apparently
reckoned without the Tariff
Board. This board decided that
no encouragement would be
given to the local linseed-growers
by way of tariffs on imported
linseed products.
The A.A.C., when recom-
mending linseed-production as
important to the national plan
of increased land-production,
said good prices would be
necessary to encourage
growers, otherwise costs would
beat them. It also pointed out
that, in order to avoid distortions
to production patterns, careful
attention should be paid to the
maintenance of proper price-
relationships between individual
commodities.
All of which now appears as
no more than pious. For, as the
result of the unsatisfactory price
offered by crushers for linseed
grain, a reduction of area from
50,000 acres in 1950 to no more
than a token crop has taken
place this season. Where now
are the bombasts who spouted so
loudly about linseed, where is the
flourishing new farm industry
that was promised?
Festival Wheat
“Triticum”: N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture’s superior
new wheat variety, Festival, is
an early-maturing wheat con-
taining Pusa, Baringa and
Kenya in its parentage.
It inherits the high baking-
quality of Pusa, partakes of the
high - yielding character of
Baringa, and carries the high
resistance of Kenya to all present
races of stem-rust known in
Australia.
Gabo, produced by Sydney
University plant-breeders a few
years ago, is susceptible to a new
race of stem-rust, and, as it
cannot stand against an epidemic
of this disease, its days are
numbered. But the N.S.W.
department has a resistant
variety to replace it.
Many wheatgrowers were
already cursing Gabo for bring-
ing flag-smut back to their farms
after they had freed themselves
of it. They should be pleased
with the high-resistance of
Festival.
State plant-breeders get slow
and grudging recognition,
especially from those who have
benefited handsomely from their
work.
Shooting Hailstorms
“J.K.D.”: The first hailstorm
of the season in Queensland’s
granite belt will mark the be-
ginning of an experiment by
Stanthorpe (Q.) fruitgrowers to
prevent hail damage to crops by
the use of hail-rockets.
A consignment of 300 rockets
from France has been distributed
to rocket-firing stations in the
Stanthorpe district, manned by
growers, who will fire the
rockets into hail-cloud forma-
tions when they appear.
The Stanthorpe committee has
carefully-compiled figures and
carefully-plotted data showing
the paths of the storms. From
these the onslaught on the first
hailstorm has been planned. Dr.
E. G. Bowen, leader of the
C.5.1.R.0, team of scientific
rainmakers, was reported as say-
ing he did not think the rockets
would be effective, because there
was no certain way of identify-
ing hail-bearing clouds.
However, the committee be-
lieves reports of successful ex-
periments in France and South
Africa, In theory the rockets
explode in the clouds, causing a
turbulence in the air which
raises the temperature sufficiently
to melt the hail and convert it
into rain.
Stack Thatch
“Myrrhee”: An unusual
thatch for grass-hay stacks used
by R. T. Hempel, Wangaratta
(Vic.), is described in the Vic-
torian “Journal of Agriculture.”
The stairs in the stack are filled
with sheaves, and grass-hay or
straw tied, down with baling-
wire is used as the first cover.
This is coated with 6in. to Sin. of
pipe-clay hoisted up with a stack-
grab. The clay is watered and
smoothed with a shovel; the
surface is again sprinkled with
water, dusted with cement and
given a final smoothing. To
prevent cracking the clay is
reinforced with joined-up lengths
of old baling-wire—the joins
help to hold the clay together.
Clover-lea
“Mr.”: Tests at Rutherglen
research - station (Vic.) have
shown that land spelled under
clover-lea for a number of years
gains considerably in organic
matter and soil nitrogen. The
build-up at first is slow,
accelerating as the pasture be-
comes well established.
At the station, over a period
of years, organic matter on
clover-lea land has increased by
as much as 17cwt. per acre per
annum. -In some old cropping
paddocks put under clover-lea,
organic matter and soil nitrogen
have doubled, and, in some cases,
trebled in quantity. In addition
to these increases in jfertility,
soil structure has improved, the
particles bound together by the
organic matter being more
friable, easy to work and more
capable of water-absorption than
soils on regularly - cropped,
unspelled land.
Hints for the Farm
“Billjim”: A help in control-
ling coccidiosis in chickens is the
feeding of plenty of buttermilk-
powder. Amount normally used
in chickens’ mash is 5 per cent,,
but to combat the disease 40 per
cent, should be used for three
days. If the trouble has reached
an advanced stage treat the
chicks with 16 per cent,
sulphamethiazine.
“M.”: Feed goslings four
times a day for about a month
and three times daily for the
second month, using a crumbly
mash made of ground wheat
401 b., ground hulled-oats 201 b.,
maizemeal 201 b., bran 101 b.,
meatmeal or dried buttermilk
101 b., common salt slb. At the
end of the second month put
them on to a good pasture and
feed wet mash in the mornings
and grain in the evening until
about three weeks prior to
marketing, when they are con-
fined for a fattening course of
three feeds a day—two of mash
and one of grain.
“C.A.A.”: For tomatoes
recommended quantities of
manure are: 25 tons per acre
(121 b. per square yard) of well-
rotted animal manure or com-
post; four parts of super, com-
pound, six parts of bonedust and
one part of sulphate-of-potash at
2oz. to the square foot. For each
1000 sq. ft. the amounts are:
451 b, of super, compound,
67£lb. of bonedust and 12|lb. of
sulphate-of-potash. On areas
that have been cropped over a
long period the addition of 51b.
of sulphate-of-iron to every
1000 sq. ft. is advisable.
“My”: In north-eastern Vic-
toria Wimmera rye-grass and
sub.-clover make a good com-
bination, the rye-grass providing
a greater amount of autumn and
winter grazing; the clover in its
turn raising the supply of
nitrogen in the soil, thus
encouraging the rye-grass in
persistent and productive
growth.
“H.N.S.”: Corriedale stud
flocks in N.S.W. will still be
inspected at least once every
three years, despite last year’s
decision by the Federal Council
of the Australian Corriedale
Association to discontinue the
system in other States. The
N.S.W. branch believes the
inspections necessary to prevent
any decline in breed standards
and to improve them wherever
possible.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
In southern areas present
conditions are likely to con-
tinue into Novenjber, with
successive rains from the Ant-
arctic low-pressure systems.
In the far north October
should see the first onsets of
the coming wet season, with
gradual increase of rains to a
December above normal and
a very wet January. Later in
October only slight storms and
light rains are likely in the
south and there may be a
good deal of heat. November
should have good general
rains; some very heavy falls
on the north coast of New
South Wales. In central
southern N.S.W. there is a
possibility of some flooding in
October and the Murray may
show a considerable rise.
PROSPECTS GOOD
Every sign that can be studied
indicates a strong future
demand for wool, and par-
ticularly for well-classed wool.
To get the best possible return
from his sheep every farmer
who does his own classing
should have “The Bulletin"
Wool Type Card as a guide.
Send 7s. 6d. for one now.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Staggered Hours
Union opposition to the spreading of
peak hours is one of the strangest
anomalies of the present day, a direct
cause of the fantastic rush-hour crushes
in capital cities and the high cost of
public transport.
American city planner Charles B.
Bennett was so amazed at this state
of affairs when in Australia that when
he returned to Los Angeles he told
newspapermen Melbourne streets were
so choked at peak-hours that “If
you have a heart-attack in the street, there
is no room left to fall over.”
For some queer reason union officials,
ignoring the fact that total working hours
are rigidly controlled, argue .that a
rearrangement of working-times would
constitute some kind of underhand attack
on the working man’s way of life. One
union official has said that staggered
working - hours would interfere with
domestic meal-times, the notion appar-
ently being that the man of the house
must be fed immediately before his de-
parture and directly on his return from
work. That entirely ignores the long-
established policy of shift-work, which
has applied to many groups all their lives.
American cities have long since adopted
staggered working-hours, with the full
support of labor unions, as an intelligent
means of spreading peak-hour crushes
and giving people a greater degree of
comfort in their travelling.
Leading Melbourne retail stores would
be willing to open at 10 a.m. instead of
9.5 a.m., and that would mean that
thousands of sales-assistants and early
bargain-hunters would be able to travel
later. Employees, at union direction,
have refused to agree.
Comfort is important enough, but cost
of travel has an even more vital bearing
on employees’ lives. A recent report
showed that considerably more than half
the rolling-stock of the Tramways Board
was idle in off-peak hours, representing a
substantial item in overhead expenses.
Such costs must be reflected in the fares
charged and are due, in part, to this
strange policy of forcing all workers to
travel in the same tight period. — Rag
(Vic.).
C.R.T.S. Loans
The Repatriation Department is having
trouble enforcing repayment of loans
made under the C.R.T.S. scheme. These
loans were made to help ex-servicemen
get a start in their chosen career. They
could be used to augment the living-allow-
ance, or to provide the necessary equip-
ment for a particular profession. The
limit of the loan was generally around
£750, but that amount was governed by
the profession chosen and its capacity to
repay. The first £5O was interest-free and
the rest carried an interest-rate of two
per cent.
Those who are reluctant to repay take
the view that they shouldn’t have to.
They claim that the Government in its
gratitude should make the amount of the
loan a gift. These views are not confined
to those who did not complete their
courses, although such are in the majority.
That’s not very logical. A few I have
spoken to give the impression that they
had no intention of repaying. But
even if their reasons for not paying were
valid, it would be impossible at this late
stage to wipe off the debt.
So many have paid back the money
borrowed that any remissions would have
to apply to them. There are also the war-
service land-settlers who have borrowed
much larger sums and whose debts have
now been transferred to the Rural Bank.
They, too, would have to be considered.
And, what is generally overlooked by
those complaining, the money was
advanced on the condition that it would
be repaid.
The Repatriation Department has been
particularly lenient in this matter. It has
been most reluctant to take serious action
against defaulters, and has only done so
when it became obvious that no other
course would be effective. To give the
trainee a chance to get settled in his pro-
fession Repat. made the repayments for
the first couple of years very light, and,
in cases of genuine hardship, has
suspended repayment for a time. But
when it finds some defaulters spending
money on expensive and unnecessary
luxuries it has every right to feel annoyed.
A loan, whether from Repat., a bank
or a private source, is still a loan and
should be paid back on moral as well as
legal grounds.~RANN (N.S.W.).
Climate and Character
That climatic-psychology theory of
Ernest S. Clowes (B. 23/9/’53) won’t hold
water.
Great civilisations have not been con-
fihed to any one climatic zone. Jtie first
of which we have definite records —
Mesopotamia, Egypt and Greece —had
weather much like ours. Others in other
parts of the world have waxed and waned
without any change of climate. The
Vikings were tough and enterprising
sailors, but so were the Phoenicians. Out-
standing individuals in all walks of life
have been produced from countries
bordering the equator equally with those
on the snow-line.
The sources of genius, courage and
action are unknown. If you have them,
the weather won’t stop you. — Robert
Howie (W.A.).
The Cumberland Scheme
It was stated (B. 23/9/’53) of the
County of Cumberland scheme that funds
will not be available to carry out resump-
tion on the scale contemplated. The fact
is that the scheme, as originally presented
to the Minister, was much more ambitious
than that finally adopted by Parliament.
To reduce the cost of the scheme, Parlia-
ment excluded all built-up land shown in
open-space reservations. That reduced
the cost by two-thirds ; consequently the
scheme does not envisage the acquisition
of land on the scale originally proposed.
There is no restriction on the continued
use of built-up land,, nor is there any
proposal to resume the houses or disturb
the occupants.
All vacant land reserved for future
open space and county roads is being
bought at its market-value. The County
Council has a valuation made on the basis
of the current market-value, arrived at
on figures of sales of comparable land in
the locality. There has been a marked
falling-off in real-estate activity and,
generally, the sales on which the valua-
tions are based were made 12 to 18
months ago at boom prices. Conse-
quently, prices paid by the Cumberland
County Council tend to be higher than
“Poor darling thinks hell save money by marrying his typist .”
what the owners would get on the open
market.
The use of urban lands is generally
unrestricted, except in isolated cases
where premature subdivision occurred in
the “green belt” in pre-planning years.
When development is refused on an
urban-sized allotment, the council buys
the land for ultimate consolidation into
a conforming area.
In the past 12 months claims have been
settled at an average rate of £17,000 a
month. The county programme for the
“ Orright! Go to the other island!”
remainder of this year is to settle claims
at the rate of £20,000 a month.
Most of the 1000 claims involved have
been settled amicably by negotiation. In
only eight cases has the council had to
resort to resumption procedure. —R. S.
Luke, chairman, Cumberland County
Council.
Tasmanian Railways
Once more the Tasmanian Government
has had a report on its near-
bankrupt railways—losses now around
£1 million annually—this one by British
railway expert H. H, Phillips, who
recommends abolition of all rail
passenger-services in the Speck except
those serving Hobart suburban areas.
There was, of course, an immediate
howl about mass unemployment, but
Phillips pointed out to members of the
Tasmanian Parliament that talk of
unemployment was nonsense, because his
plan provided for the withdrawal of
passenger-services over a period of 12 or
more months. He also suggested that
skilled tradesmen in the railways could
transfer to jobs being advertised by the
Hydroelectric Commission, another State
organisation.
The report suggested economies in
workshops, minor changes in freight-
rates, scrapping of obsolete rolling-stock
and better use of diesel-electric locos. It
was no “magic-wand” report, but con-
firmed what many Tasmanians believe to
be the correct approach to the railway
problem.
Apart from railway workers, and a
dwindling race of individuals who like
train travel best, most of us in Tassie
hope the Phillips report won’t be shelved.
—Tonsi (Tas.),
Japan and Trade
Powerful nations like Japan and
Germany cannot be kept in subjection
indefinitely, and both are getting back to
an important part in world politics and
world trade.
Their recovery poses important ques-
tions, and some observers think that, if
Japan is not allowed to trade freely with
the Western world, she will suffer
economic collapse or be driven into
alliance with Red Chin?,. Yet there is
stiff opposition, here and in Britain, to
taking more imports from Japan. Britain
is refusing to lower tariffs on Jap goods
and is against Japan’s entry into GATT.
The one-sided trade with Japan which
has been the rule since 1945 can’t last any
longer. As Mr. Menzies pointed out,
Japan last year bought £B4 million-worth
of goods, mostly wool, from Australia
while we in return took only £5 million-
worth. We must be prepared to buy
more goods from Japan. If we don’t, we
may lose our valuable trade —Japan’s
Trade Minister has threatened to cut
imports from here unless we relax restric-
tions on Japanese imports, and Japan, by
a barter agreement with Argentina, has
already taken a step to get wool else-
where.
A Gallup-poll revealed that the
majority of Australians think we should
import from Japan, and Japanese Prime
Minister Yoshida has stated that Japan’s
cost-of-production is now higher than the
international level, “therefore we are not
in a position to create a threat of strong
economic competition. The days of cheap
Japanese labor are gone.”
But some Australian manufacturing
concerns will have to put their houses in
order in the inevitable era of growing
competition from overseas. —Roscoe
(Vic.).
Eggs
It’s not the Egg Board’s fault that the
price of eggs has jumped to its present
figure (B. 2/9/’53). One of the main
reasons has been the increasing cost of
production. In March, 1951, for instance,
wheat was 7s. 10|d. a bushel and bran
and pollard £l2 15s. 6d. a ton. In
September, 1953, wheat was 14s. Oid. a
bushel and bran and pollard £2l 2s. 6d.
a ton.
Egg prices for those same months were
3s. Bd. a dozen and 4s, lid. a dozen, so
the poultryfarmer isn’t gaining. It
should also be realised that the costs of
the Egg Board are met by deductions
from the wholesale price ; in other words,
it’s the producer who supports the board,
not the consumer.
Abolition of the board would mean
a return to the old chaotic conditions
when the poultryfarmer was at the mercy
of Sussex-street and had no assured out-
let for surplus eggs in the spring flush.
No thanks! We don’t mind working a
seven-day week, but at least leave us what
little security we enjoy under the much-
maligned Egg Board. — Tukano Kebun
(N.S.W.).
Currency-juggling
The National Bank, in its “Monthly
Summary of Australian Conditions” for
September, makes out a strong case
against depreciation of our currency as
a means of adjusting economic ills. The
article is temperate and well-reasoned,
and should be reprinted in full in all our
leading newspapers so that the average
elector might fully grasp the danger of
currency - manipulation by pressure-
groups with too much influence on our
politics.
The article concludes dh a sound
ethical note:
The rate at which a country’s money unit
exchanges with other currencies is a measure
of its economic standing in the world. It
reflects the productivity of the nations
industries and workers in comparison with
others and it determines the terms_ on which
goods and services can be obtained from
other countries. Its strength is at once the
fruit of sound progress in the past and the
sign of a bright future, its weakness is a
censure on inadequate achievement and an
indication of diminishing prospect. Appre-
ciated it is the recognition of a rising
living standard, depreciated it is an admis-
sion of decline, helping revival only when
adversity is already widespread.
The truth of that, however, will not
deter certain manufacturing interests
from pushing for further depreciation of
the £A, since success in that direction
would save them the odium of presenting
a flimsy case to the Tariff Board, and
at the same time leave electors with the
impression that the Government was en-
tirely responsible.-
DIVES (Tas.).


would not be operating as a
single body, but as two widely
separated forces whose assembly-
points would be 200 miles apart,
and who would arrive by differ-
ent modes of transport, but
whose movements —come rain,
hail or hurricane or enemy
action—must be synchronised
with great delicacy if they were
to succeed.
The two divisions to be used
were the Ninth and the Seventh.
Only three months before its
conditioning for the campaign
began early in the year the
Ninth had closed the door on
its glorious career in the Middle
East, which had culminated at
the Battle of El Alamein, and
had reached its native shore.
Most of its officers and men
were without practice in tropi-
cal warfare.
It was given as commander
Major-General George Wootten,
the first Australian to command
American troops in battle, a
man whose cool-headed tenacity
had won the admiration of the
Americans in the Buna-Gona
operations. Under his patient
yet crisp direction teams from
the more experienced Sixth and
Seventh Divisions, who had
bought their knowledge dearly
on the Kokoda Trail and after-
wards, drilled and hammered
jungle lore and method into the
brigades which were to carry
through the plan.
The Ninth Division was
trained firstly on the Atherton
Tableland and the adjacent
Queensland shore, the nearest to
a counterpart of the area it was
presently to fight in that could
be found in Australia. All
aspects of jungle operations were
covered, including drill in anti-
malarial and scrub-typhus pre-
cautions, supply by air—even
ammunition was dropped in
quantity in the Einschhafen
operation-road- and bridge-
building, manhandling of equip-
ment under jungle conditions
and tropical maintenance.
In fact, the course sought to
turn out the perfect New Guinea
fighting man. Each assault-
brigade in turn had a fortnight
at the coast practising landings
with the United States Boat and
Shore Regiment.
Between July 26 and August
12 the division was transferred
and concentrated at Milne Bay.
And off East Cape, on Nor-
manby Island, the 20th Brigade,
which was to spearhead the
attack, and the 26th Brigade,
carried out a complete rehearsal
on a beach similar to that on
which they wc\uld land, right up
to the point of actually unload-
ing the guns and heavy equip-
ment.
Then the division awaited its
fate while its command tried,
with the usual hitches incident to
such relationships, to perfect its
co-ordination with the United
States Navy, Army and Air
Force. This was the last stage
before the attack, which was to
take place on a little black-sand
beach about 17 miles to the east
of Lae and separated from that
town by rough and roadless lit-
toral country and by several
wide and turbulent rivers, swol-
len by the rains.
Though these would be serious
obstacles to the advance on Lae,
they would also be serious
obstacles to the enemy’s inter-
ference with the landings if his
forces were not established
within reach before the event.
The beach chosen for the main
landing was 400yds. long and
20yds. wide, with only one
kanaka track leading out of it
into the tangle ,of mangrove,
kunai and coconuts behind it.
When the Ninth Division had
been assembled on the shore the
plan was that it should set out
to capture Lae, while the
Seventh Division, under Major-
General George Vasey, primarily
was to block the Markham
Valley Road to the Japanese
bases on the north coast and
prevent reinforcements coming
in. When it had achieved suflfi-
“Like THIS, Rover!”
cient strength it was to advance
towards Lae to act as an anvil
for the Ninth Division’s hammer.
It did not, however, work out
quite like that.
With Lae taken, the Markham
force was to charge, by land and
air, up the Markham-Ramu
Valley to fence off the peninsula.
The Ninth Division was to cap-
ture Finschhafen. Then it was
to unwind itself like a ribbon
along the shores of the Vitiaz
Strait, until it should junction
with General Vasey’s division or
its successor and lock the iron
ring round any Japanese who
might remain.
While the Ninth Division was
training in Queensland and at
Milne Bay the Seventh Division
was being educated for a differ-
ent kind of role in Pom Pom
Valley, near Moresby. It was
to become the first airborne divi-
sion in Australian history. It
was a tough formation created
while Hitler was overrunning
Western Europe in the middle of
1940, and its last units had gone
to the Middle East in the same
convoys which took the last
units of the Ninth Division near
the end of that year. It had
known the misfortunes and
rigors of the Syrian war.
It was to be carried over the
Owen Stanleys, already familiar
to those footsore members of it
who had survived the Buna-*
Gona campaign and landed on
the doorstep of Lae at Nadzab,
25 miles from the town and
athwart its landward communi-
cations with the Japanese bases
of the north coast at Saidor,
Bogadjim and Madang. (It was
in the region of Nadzab, an old-
time emergency airstrip, now
overgrown and deserted, that
the New Guinea Rifles had made
their last stand at the time of
the Japanese invasion. It was
a key position.)
Once landed, the Seventh
Division, which was to be hurled
like a series of projectiles
through'the air to this position
in enemy country, would be open
to devastating attack until it
should have consolidated.
Combat preliminary to the
Huon campaign had for months
been inching through blood and
mud towards Salamaua, which
it had now almost engulfed. And
the Australian command, about
the middle of the year, began
to use the battle for that town
to divert the attention of the
enemy from its preparations for
the Huon attack and to draw
troops out of the Lae area. This
would make the Japanese fight
on maximum-length lines-of-
communication and divide their
forces. It was planned that
these should be destroyed at
times and places of the Allies’
own choice.
These moves seem to have
succeeded in convincing General
Nakano that the Salamaua battle
would be decisive, and that if
he did not win it he might ex-
pect Australian troops to come
romping into the Markham
Valley by land. No thought of
his foes making airborne leaps
of 200 miles from Moresby or
seaborne leaps of 300 miles
from Milne Bay entered that
worthy Oriental’s mind. He
knew that the 2/2 and 2/7
Independent Companies of the
Australian forces had been
operating as far afield, on the
edges of- the Markham-Ramu
Valley, as the Bena Bena plateau
since May 27 —one platoon
since four months earlier. Also
enterprising patrols of the
Papuan Native Infantry had
raided right across the Markham
into Gabmatzung Mission be-
side Nadzab, where the Seventh
Division would presently estab-
lish itself.
The Japanese command
therefore obligingly sent every
available man in the Lae area
to be killed off in the bloddy
battles of Komiatum Ridge, Mt.
Tambu and Kela Ridge, which
rose 1200 ft. above the pock-
marked Salamaua airfield. It
was estimated that before
General Savige and his Third
Division handed over the war
on the Salamaua arc to Major-
General Milford and the Fifth
Division, two days before the
Australians landed on the Huon
Peninsula, 6000 Japanese had
been killed in Salamaua fighting,
apart from those destroyed by
air attack and artillery.
These, had they not been
killed, the Ninth and Seventh
Divisions otherwise would have
had to fight on the enemy’s own
defended ground at Lae, along
with those who remained still
alive and now were trying to
hold Salamaua. As Lieutenant-
General Herring put it, Lae was
to be assaulted under the cloak
of Salamaua, where as many
Japanese as possible were to be
pinned down until the Huon
force was safely established.
The next phase to be attended
to was the damping-down of
Japanese air-power. The Allied
resources —Fifth Air Force and
R.A.A.F. —were so limited that
the landing of the Ninth Divi-
sion would have to be constricted
within 4\ -hours, because effec-
tive cover of the beaches could
not be extended beyond that
period.
At the same time while United
States patrol-boats and our own
small ships had. a merry time
with the barge express, with
which the enemy was trying to
reinforce the Lae garrison by
sea, the Fifth United States Air
Force began to blast his aero-
dromes.
Lae and Salamaua air-bases
had been of no real importance
since the Bismarck Sea battle.
They had gone out of regular
use round March or April be-
cause the Japanese could not
service them and supply them.
But there were still abundant
aircraft at Boram and Dagua,
near Wewak, about 145 miles
from Lae, and also at Gasmata,
on the south coast of New
Britain, and at Madang, only
150 miles across the Huon
Peninsula. Wewak was too far
away for the fighters from the
Allied fields at Dobodura, near
Buna, to cover raids on them.
Therefore a forward, and for
long secret, airfield had been
established on an old strip
formerly used by the miners of
the Watut goldfields. This place
was on a piece of level country
surrounded by mountains, back
from the edge of the Markham
Valley. The meteorological
conditions were difficult for the
enemy to forecast. It was called
Tsili Tsili, and was about 40
miles inland from Lae. Allied
fighters were there before the
end of the month, but the enemy
did not discover the strip till
August 14. Radar made it diffi-
cult for the Japanese to surprise
it, but they had previously
wasted bombs, about the middle
of July, on the empty advance
emergency-strip at Garoke,
which our companies were
guarding out on the Bena Bena
plateau.
From Tsili Tsili 48 United
States bombers, 31 Mitchell
Strafers and about 100 Light-
ning fighters struck at the Wewak
fields, where 250 aircraft were
poised to attack Allied aero-
dromes. This raid was the first
of a series.
It was claimed that before
September 1 over 300 hostile
aircraft had been destroyed. But
the destruction did not obliter-
ate the enemy’s air-power, as
events soon proved. He even
sneaked three Bettys —Zero-I
Navy medium bombers —and
six Zero-11l fighters into the
derelict Lae field on September
3. The same day his Air Force
attacked ships loading at
Mofobe.
The invasion was, in fact, at
this point planned for next day.
Its ships were moving, its officers
and men instructed. No chances
were to be taken. It was esti-
mated that there were 7245
enemy troops in Lae and about
85 guns, including anti-aircraft
guns, among them one or two
155 mm All round
the town dug strongpoints
covered the approaches and
were sited in depth. The enemy
had an excellent observation-
post on Mt. Lunamen in the
environs.
There was no sign of defences
in the Buso area west of Hopoi,
where the Ninth Division was to
go ashore ; but there might be.
The country lent itself to con-
cealment. There were reports
that there were guns along the
south coast of the peninsula to
protect coastwise barge traffic.
On August 23, by way of a
feint. United States destroyers
bombarded Finschhafen with
540 sin. shells. And then, a day
or two afterwards, serious bomb-
ing of both Lae and Finschhafen
began, apart from attacks on
more remote enemy air-coverage
positions.
It seems clear that by August
30 the Japanese High Command
knew that something was afoot.
Imperial Headquarters orders
envisaged strategic retreat to the
Vitiaz Strait in due time, but
under cover of Lae and Finsch-
hafen, which, it ordered, should
be held to the death. Rabaul
was still trying to reinforce both
centres by sea and land, and
two battalions were supposed to
be coming down the Markham
Valley track. This detachment
seems to have been the Nakai
force, which the van of the
Seventh Division caught at
Kaiapit after Lae had fallen.
Everybody was now ready
for the invasion—except the
Japanese.
(To be concluded next week )
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 247
Across
I—Exist with a sailor chiding a
being about a rat. (8)
4 —African city coppers of the city.
(6)
9 —Tom’s description is farthest
from the outside ego of moist.
(6)
10 —Spot for a spot to capture like
a companion of St. Paul. (8)
12— There’s no use in this driving in
a style considerably below the
poshest. (9)
13 — Champion dancer in films in the
edge. (5)
15 — I become the objective. (2)
16 — Greet description for the whole
number. (7)
18 —Again put the spade through the
blushing American soldier on the
way back. (5)
20 — Started to beseech one. (5)
21 — Gnarled speed on the sea boy. (7)
23—Unclear alterations in a hush-
hush kind of physics. (7)
25 — Change no leg. (2)
26 Pop to pen Cornish food. (5)
27 — The entertainment numbers and
turns in favor of weight. (9)
28— Flat place for Steinbeck with a
rocky mountain to cultivate and
a range ip Arizona. (8)
30— Blushing drone had refreshments
that were forever amber. (6)
31 — Obstruct further to the rear. (6)
32 to dress with an anaes-
thetic. (8)
Down
1— Magistracy and I separate part
of a wicket from part of a candle.
(9)
2 Boisterous woolgrower bankrupt
is seen over acknowledgments of
debt. (11)
3 Savoring thanks with a bite. (7)
5 Innominate. (7)
6 Menzies is made of money. (3)
7 Philosopher upsetting an African
novel of Haggard. (5)
8 — Mother goes to New York quite
a lot. (4)
11 —Jack Horner’s food radical with
pillars. (6)
14— Crooks have 31 days heard
during a military disgrace. (6, 5)
15 — It deals with matters of course.
(4)
17 — Character in Desire Under the
Elms” has been altered. (4)
18 — Disorderly Romans to redeem.
(6)
19 — The assassin of a baronet wh*
might give us spirit. (3-6)
22—Resembling a plaything. (7)
24—Get up in the heart procession
for a funeral] (7)
26 Wides and bad singers are off it,
but throw the proverbial defile-
ment. (5)
27 Ski might finish off this European
mast. (3)
29—Dash in the station score. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 246


mmmmmrnmmmm
i
THERE'S
SOMETHING
I ABOUT
, the Red, White J 81 «e pump.o*
fINOtPtHOtNn
and NOW
c
}
introduces
RECOMMENDED BY ROLLS-ROYCE
A COMPLETE RANGE OF
AUTOMOTIVE OILS AND
GREASES . . equally suitable
for new and old engines.
N
,Nn WftO;
- ~ , . .-.-t nV
For top-up or oil change , choose ENERGOL,
r r s
*. / -
‘y r.I '
WSf
Pfi
a J ; V f ■:
the 'Good Companion * of C.O.R MOTOR SPIRIT at
A
INDEPENDENT
SERVICE STATION
Cl5O
THE COMMONWEAL
