

FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS
BUY SEPPELTS SOLERO SHERRY
The Bulletin
COMPLETE STORY: s'WE POL ED STICKS”
“The Bulletin,'* Vol. 74 —No. 3804
Wednesday, January 7, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered as lie General Post Office,
Seppelts
AROUND NOTTINGHAM CASTLE HISTORY'S MANTLE IS CLOSELY WOVEN
FOR three hundred years Nottingham’s prestige, has been due to its pre-
eminence in the lace, hosiery and tobacco industries, but its history riches
far back into Saxon times, when it was included in the kingdom of Merc a.
Tt was then a place of some importance, due to its commanding position
the River Trent—the natural border between the north and south of England
When the Danes captured the settlement in 787 they established a stronghold
there which became one of their principal seats of government until 924,
when thev were defeated by the Saxon King, Edward the Elder. ,
Nottingham has played a leading part in the history of ErgamJ, an
manv stirring events were centred around the Castle, which dominates me
from its ninnacle of rock. The Norman invaders, under, William the
Conqueror, recognised the importance of a new castle which, in succeeding
centuries, was to become a favourite residence of Norman and Plantagenet
kings. It was the strongest fortress in the Midlands, and as such it was the
bulwark of the Crown in every case of emergency. The Castle was besieged
again in 1194 and in 1212 King John retired there, guarded only by
thp inhabitants of Nottingham and some foreign archers after disbanding his
Smy^whose 1 allegiance From the castle walls, during King
John's reign, were hung the unfortunate Welsh princes, hostage sons ol
rebellious chieftains. , „ . t
In 1330, following the death of
up her abode in the Castle at Nottingham wj i the
whom she had created Earl of March. Asserting his P j„j ,u e young
Earl became arrogant and insolent to. the , b .f who persuaded th y
Kin- Edward 111 to issue a warrant for his arrest, ihe ™ n £SS’ u Q
was D strongly guarded, and each ffi wd his party of
who slept with them under her pillow. The young duu ' ’ F J a nd
ioval barons finally broke into the castle by a secret underground P 3- g |
spi/ed the Earl Mortimer in the Queen’s apartments, from where he w
castle, however, is the Edwardian gateway built in the eleventh ce ry.
The present castle, built in 1674 was damaged
lsni hut was restored in 1875-78, when it was leased *.O the Ci y r ,
Ifd opened a museum and art gallery, for which purpose it is used today.


STSull
m
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vie.
! HERE AND
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(S 3. 153).... Age......
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, 8.0. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 3/6.)
We specialise in Katherine Mansfield items, in Aus-
tralian and N.Z. poetry, history, flora and fauna
of N.Z., South Seas, Antarctica, etc., and publish
Collectors’ Monographs (12/6 set ot 6).
The RedPage
BASS OF BASS STRAIT
George Bass has been done by a fellow-
medico, Dr. Keith Bowden, in a manner
very different from the treatment accorded
his companion in discovery, Flinders, by
Mrs. Ernestine Hill ( My Love Must
Wait). There is material for romance in
this story of a young ship’s surgeon who
married his captain’s sister, left her in
England, and after a few years sailed from
Sydney, aged 32, and was never seen
again; but it is Dr. Bowden’s method to
detail all the symptoms with scientific
clarity and brevity and, for the most part,
to allow the reader to make his own
diagnoses; George Bass, 1771-1803, His
Discoveries, Romantic Life and Tragic
Disappearance (Cumberlege; Oxford
University Press).
Bass was the son of a farmer of
Aswarby, Lincolnshire. His father dying
when he was six, his mother, well-enough
provided-for, went to live in the river-
port of Boston, on the Witham ; even-
tually she apprenticed him to a Boston
surgeon, and after two years learning the
crude medical methods of the times, he
is supposed to have “walked the hospitals”
in London to gain the requisite experience
of surgery.
With his appointment—after some
service against the French —to H.M.S.
frigate Reliance in 1794 his connection
with Australia began. Anyone seeking a
concentration of Australian portraits
could hardly get a richer one than in this
ship: Captain Hunter was going out to
become Governor ; Matthew Flinders was
master’s mate ; the aborigine, Bennilong,
who had been taken to London by
Governor Phillip, was returning to Aus-
tralia, a very sick man, and became
Bass’s first patient on the ship; there was
Bass himself and his personal servant, or
“loblolly-boy,” William Martin, famous
as the bailer of the Tom Thumb; and,
of course, there was the Tom Thumb
itself, “a little boat of about eight-foot
keel and five-foot beam” which Bass had
secured at the instance of Hunter, who
“pointed out that one great difficulty
would be the procuring of suitable craft
for their work of discovery, .at Port
Jackson.”
In an appendix, Dr. Bowden goes
exhaustively into the problem of the
Tom Thumb. There were two Tom
Thumbs. The first, brought from Eng-
land, had an eight-foot keel; but he
considers that this would mean an overall
length of ten or twelve feet—a better pro-
portion to its five-foot beam: “When
fitted with mast and sail she would not
have been very different in appearance
from, say, a twelve-foot .sailing dinghy.”
In this little boat Bass and Flinders went
through the Pleads, round to Botany Bay,
and up the George’s River.
The second Tom Thumb, Dr. Bowden
opines, having considered references to
people jumping into and sleeping in the
boat, must have been about sixteen-feet
long by six wide, still a dangerous-enough
vessel to take the sea, even in days when,
as Slessor says:
Seamen with a pale and rice-flaked flesh
Diced the old skeleton afresh
In brigs no bigger than their moon-
bunched faces.
In this boat they went down the coast
to Port Hacking and Lake Illawarra.
Bass had used his spare time as ship’s
surgeon in study of navigation and natural
history. He read everything he could
find on Captain Cook. He wrote later to
Sir Joseph Banks that he bad gone to
N, S. Wales “with the professed intention
of exploring more of the country than
any of his predecessors in the colony, and,
in addition, was anxious to secure new
or rare*sped mens of subjects in natural
history,”
Certainly he lost no time. Little more
than a month after the Reliance arrived
m Sydney, he and Flinders with the boy
Martin made their voyage in the Tom
Thumb up George’s River ; in the next
month Bass was with the party that
found the colony’s lost cattle, consider-
ably increased, in the Cowpastures
(Camden).
The Reliance made a voyage to
Norfolk Island early in 1796, but
immediately on her return, in March,
Bass and Flinders were off again in the
second Tom Thumb, perhaps their best-
known voyage, when they were wrecked
and had to dump their stores, dry them
and swim them out to the boat, and
when, later, they clipped the hair and
beards of natives to amuse them while
the powder was drying. The most painful
part of these troubles, to anyone who has
had a sudden breaking-in to the surfing
season, will seem the condition of Bass,
with his English skin, blistered from
head to toe after swimming naked from
shore to ship, rafting stores and gear
aboard from ten in the morning until
two in the afternoon.
By June, 1796, he was off, with 8 two
companions, carrying grappling-hooks
and scaling-irons, to try to cross the Blue
Mountains; up the Hawkesbury River,
along the south bank of the Grose River,
and then into the ranges. He had himself
lowered by ropes to the bottoms of pre-
cipices ; but the gorges beat him, and the
ridges that led nowhere; and he gave up
at the top of the present Mount King
George.
The Reliance visited the Cape Of Good
Hope in 1796-97 to secure livestock, and
on his return Bass heard the story of a
member of a shipwrecked party who had
seen coal when coming overland from
the south towards Sydney. Hunter gave
Bass a whaleboat to seek both coal and
two abandoned members of the ship-
wrecked party. These last had offended
the natives, and he found only their bones.
But he also found Coalcliff, and brought
back three bags of its coal: for which
reason, 150 years later, colliery pro-
prietors decided to “transfer an acre of
land to the Buffi Shire Council, for use as
a reserve on which a monument will
stand.”
The Reliance having been laid-up for
repairs. Hunter agreed to relieve the
tedium of life for Bass by granting
him a Sydney-built whaleboat 28ft.
7in, long, made of banksia-wood
and lined with cedar, and the service
of six volunteer-oarsmen from the Navy,
“for the purpose of examining the coast
to the southward of this port, as far as
he could with safety and convenience go.”
This was the voyage of December,
1797 - February, 1798, in which Bass
visited Jervis Bay, Bateman’s Bay, dis-
covered Twofold Bay, saw Wilson’s
Promontory for the first time on record,
except that a party of shipwrecked and
very tame escaped convicts were encoun-
tered on Fumeaux Island.
On January 5, 1798, Bass discovered
and entered Western Port, and estab-
lished, beyond reasonable doubt, the
existence of Bass Strait.
In October. 1798, Bass and Flinders
set out to circumnavigate Tasmania in
the Norfolk, built on Norfolk Island, a
sloop of 25 tons ; and, going ashore,
Bass studied the anatomy of the
wombat, the nesting of the albatross, the
feeding of the swan and the venom of
snakes; moreover, “the reports which
Bass made upon the soil and production
of the parts of Van Diemen’s Land that
he visited led to the establishment of a
branch of the colony on the banks of the
Derwent at Risdon Cove, in 1803, and at
Port Dalrymple in November,' 1804,”
while the discovery of the Strait shortened
the journey from Europe to Sydney by
a week.
In May, 1799, Bass was invalided from
the Reliance, physically unfit for duty ;
he sailed for Macao in the ship of' a
friend, Charles Bishop, who was to
become his business partner; and thence
by Bombay, he returned to London,
arriving in August, 1800. In September
he bought the Venus, a 75-foot
brig of 142 tons; and, financed
by various merchants and friends
to the tune of some £lO,OOO,
loaded her with merchandise for sale in
Port Jackson. One of the backers of this
enterprise was Captain Waterhouse,
former captain of the Reliance; another
was Waterhouse’s father, then a man of
some substance; and certainly a well-
wisher was the captain’s sister, Elizabeth,
for on October 8, 1800, she was married
to Bass.
But when the Venus arrived in Port
Jackson in August, 1801, they found the
market glutted with goods of all kinds.
Governor King permitted them to store
the Venus’s cargo in Government stores
free of charge, the Venus to go to the
South Sea Islands in search of salt pork,
for which the Government was prepared
to pay 6d. a pound. In Otaheite Bass
found himself in competition with another
of King’s traders, Captain House of the
Norfolk. Bass captured the trade with
his partner. Bishop, after establishing a
pork-curing plant ashore; and, after
various excursions among the South Sea
Islands, returned with a cargo of salt and
pork for which the Government paid
£2351 12s. 3d.
Although there was still no sale for
the London cargo, Bass’s fortunes were
on the rise when, on February 5, 1803,
he sailed on his last voyage from Port
Jackson. No one knows what happened
to him or his ship, the Venus, after he
cleared Sydney Heads.
He was to have made surveys with the
object of establishing fisheries on the
south of New Zealand. He was to go on
to Chile “in search of provisions for the
use of his Majesty’s colony”—he seems
to have considered definitely the idea of
running contraband into Spanish ports.
A Captain Campbell is supposed to have
brought back information that the Venus
had been taken by the Spaniards and
Bass and his first mate sent to the silver-
mines of South America.
But with the Venus it was the same as
with the Tom Thumb: there were three
Venuses in the Pacific at the time when
Bass’s fate was being canvassed: one was
seized by the Spanish authorities—her
captain was named Campbell; Dr.
Bowden considers it possible that this
story became mixed with the sea-foam
into a story told by Captain Campbell
about the fate of Bass. He seems to
think it most probable that Bass was
wrecked off the South Island of New
Zealand.
Dr, Bowden has compressed his
story into 150 pages—pages of some
of the finest commercial-printing-
paper that one has seen in Australian
books. There are twelve plates ; and the
work is first-prizewinner in the biography
section of the Victorian State Govern-
ment’s Literary and Historical Com-
petition.
Snakes Without Ladders
Australia has long needed a good,
practical book on snakes, built to be
available where required. There are
good snake books —or fairly good ones —
but you can’t take them with you when
you go into the places where snakes are.
They might be useful as weapons to throw
at snakes, or as a barricade to keep snakes
off; but short of travelling with a wheel-
barrow it would be impossible to carry
them.
It is good news, therefore, that Mr.
Eric Worrall has produced the nearly-
perfect snake-book ( Dangerous Snakes of
Australia, Angus and Robertson).
It measures only x Sin. x £in.
thick, so that it can fit into any pocket
or sock. It is printed in large, bold
type and expressed in large bold, precise
language which is so explicit that even a
snake itself could almost understand it.
It explains the mechanism of snakes, the
habits of snakes and the proper pro-
cedure with snakes.
It emphasises—in just italic—that most
snakebites occur when an attempt is made
to kill or capture a reptile. It warns that
if a venomous snake must be killed it
should be approached slowly and
cautiously and dispatched with a single
blow. It gives the best advice in regard
to courtesy to snakes met in transit:
“If a snake is encountered in the bush,
walk the other way—there is plenty of
bush.”
It gives a magnificent series of plates
produced with superb technique and
remarkable for the success with which the
photographer has persuaded his subjects
to display their points so as to make them
instantly recognisable—something which
few snake portraits achieve. The* book
covers every kind of slitherer from the
taipan and Cape York brown down to
the death-adder.
It tells how to catch a snake, milk a
snake and cure snakebite; and, so far as
the reviewer knows, is the only book
which tells precisely how to deal with
snakebite on the face or trunk, and which
explains clearly that a tourniquet must be
applied on a single bone part of the limb ;
the only one in which the illustrations
showing treatment are so simple and
concentrated that they can be taken in at
a glance.
If this little book isn’t a best-seller for
many years it should be. The only disap-
pointment which it proffers is that
“whisky and ammonia, taken internally,
or applied externally, are useless.... the
patient should not be given alcohol.”
Snakebite, it seems, has almost ceased to
be worth the. trouble.
THE LEOPARDS
Dappled on the sunny hill
Green leopards laired in shade,
Exotic as the bouncing thoughts
That knuckled skull and tweaked the
hair
And round and round me played:
I went where great willow trees
Hid a mountain pool:
And there the leopards’ coiling tails
Hung down the sprawling bumpkin
rocks
While water lapped them cool.
Like tribal marks about the hill.
A shrill inspiring wind
Shook the willows, whipped the water,
I eased it up and set it flying—
Words within my mind.
I took a maid by the lake of words.
I wooed her quiet and kind.
We swam and as we stroked the water
Poems in a lyric wake
Trickled out behind.
They broke upon the jagged rocks.
They washed upon the sands.
I raged that they so exquisite
Should hot endure. I seized that maid
And set her on the sands.
I shall have a sort of her,
A growing song of worth,
Conceived in savage exultation;
But her breasts are full, her hips are
wide.
He’ll have an easy birth.
N.S.W.
ERIC C. ROLLS.
French Masterpiece
The 'Times” Literary Supplement, in
r iewing the French edition of Jabadao,
b Anne de Tourville (Britannicus Liber),
which won its author the Prix Femina
a »rd in 1951, said: “Jabadao is in
ek; mce a ballad, with all the poetry and
superstition of Breton legend behind it.”
It vould be difficult to better these te-
rn ir ks, for this uncommonly beautiful
bo kis difficult to classify. It has to be
biassed as a novel, but is, in reality, no
more a novel than were, for instance,
Eve Langley’s The Peapickers or
Prckosch’s The Asiatics.
: |Tie author is a native of Brittany and
a descendant of one of its aristocratic
fan lies. Her father died at the outbreak
of rie last war, leaving her to live in
una customed poverty with her mother
and sisters through the humiliations and
hare ships of the German occupation.
During these years she began a short
story,* which grew into this full-length
book;.
Jabadao, although fairly contemporary
in its idiom, is not set in any particular
time Its place is Brittany, and its flavor
is j: Iklore, Dominating the book is
grin, vidow Katell, who, on her husband’s
deal-;, reflects:
1 ere had been no time to pine, nursing
this man, for no sooner had he caught a
chi i than death leaped on him like a cat.
A r cat in a sparrow's nest, that’s what it
haa been!.... She looked at the corpse
lyin, there with a sudden disdain. Ah, had
she been summoned in the same way she
felt he would have known how to turn a
deaf ear!
There is the Beadle’s wife, who suffered
so terribly from her strange gift of fore-
seeing other folks’ deaths. There are the
young lovers, whose romance forms the
central theme, affairs described with an
innocent freshness that seems an in-
credible phenomenon in the twentieth
century; And the Mayor’s daughter, in
a golden dress with her name stitched on
her knitted stockings, a childish figure
whose appearance precipitated tragedy.
Jabadao takes its name from a tradi-
tional Breton wedding-dance. It is
written with the clear undecorated
simplicity of the best folk stories, and its
graceful prose is excellently translated by
Mervyn Savili.
South Africa: Jan H. Hofmeyr, re-
vised by J. P. Cope (Benn). Hofmeyr
was a Minister in General Smuts’s Cabinet
and Cope “The Forum’s” editor-in-chief.
An up-to-the-minute historical survey,
temperately and authoritatively written,
on the basic understanding that policies
which are based “either on repression of
the native or on his identification with
the white man” are equally inapplicable.
Mr. Cope has hopes that “the threaten-
ing black-white explosion” can be
averted: chiefly on the economic grounds
that the white man needs the black, and
the black the white.


Reading from right to left:
White Madras Centre with Green/Red, Green/White,
Green/Gold. All round frill, matching colour in a multi-check
voile. 3ft. 6in., 35/-; 4ft. 6in., 39/6; sft., 43/6; 6ft., 47/6.
Curtains of White Madras Centre and two centre rows
multi-check frilling. 3ft. 6in., 37/6; 4ft. 6in., 42/-; sft., 47/6;
6ft., 52/6.
Multi-check Voile and White Madras. Frilling. 3ft. 6in., 37/6;
4ft. 6in„ 42/-; sft., 47/6; 6ft.. 52/6.
ii
r '
m
I*
m
14
PM.
IW
W
sy
msm
"K
is
v
M
&
Ini
wet
S*
.
.
r*
i
i
W
M
mm
w
m
m
m
m
m
mm
m*
m
R
MS
*L
•’'‘i
;
4 6”—39/6
teV
V\
I
t*
V
.
B
iff
■*
4' 6 — 42/
4' 6"—42/-
'h.
I
tf
■
%
■
For Framing
your windows, of course you’ll want
w
T 9
m i
mmim
w
fvw
m
*0 XJ
mm
* -
i
fVS>
r\*
-u | | -■-■ ~ :
*3r
/
Designers and housewives in America have long known how window curtains can alter the
personality of a room, enhance a view through a window. They value good-
looking curtains that will let the light into a room yet give complete
privacy. Frankly, we thought so much of these designs we copied
them 1 The colours, too. For colour matched properly is one of
the most important things in a curtain ... matched so that it
won t fade after a week! So why not inspect our wonderful range?
There's a curtain here for every window in your home i
a TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'.'
nthony Horderns
tSS
SHOWER AND WINDOW CURTAINS THAT MATCH
Glamour in your bathroom! Hygienic plastic Shower and Crossover window
curtains In many colours and designs. They stay clean. No
washing is necessary. You simply rub them down and they're cleanedl
X'Overs, 3' 6", 35/-; 4' 6", 37/6; 6', 47/6. Shower curtains, 6' x 3', 16/3:
6’ x 6', 32/6. Ruffles in plain, spotted or patterned plastic, with
toning ric rac trim. Rodless, these stretch to 5 yards. 32/6.
FURNISHING DEPT., 3RD FLOOR. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. ’PHONE: M 2401. FREIGHT EXTRA


A Job for the Scientists
Farming the Sea
By OLAF RUHEN
IN every community in the civilised
world the planners have insisted on
an increase in living-space. The cities
have doubled and trebled their areas.
This is a wonderful development.
The catch is that the new land taken
from food-production and given over to
house-accommodation has inevitably
been the pick of the agricultural areas in
the country. Although, with modern
transport —where it still exists —and be-
cause of improved views, greater privacy,
and healthier conditions, the hillsides
make the best building-sites, the flat spots
are the cheapest, and the rich, luscious
farm-lands are always the target of the
speculative builder; even —and this is
really unforgivable—of the Government
agency.
Even in a city like Wellington (N.Z.),
where the houses cling % to the cliff-sides
like limpets to their smaller rocks, and
builders’ laborers walk on the sides of
their feet as a matter of course, the flat
valley-lands which used to supply the city
with vegetables have been the first to be
put under houses.
This is a world-wide development, and
because the lands selected are close to
centres of population, the total loss of
intensively-farmed produce from this
cause alone has* been enormous.
Concurrently with this, the change in
living habits of the suburbanite has had
a marked effect on food-supplies. Only
a few years ago, every second family
kept itself in vegetables, fruit and eggs.
With a great deal more leisure, the
householder now neglects his garden, or
turns it over to shrubs and other semi-
permanent adornments. In one Sydney
suburb there is to be seen an artificial
lawn of green concrete, but most house-
holders have not yet pandered to their
laziness with such efficiency. Still, there
has been a staggering loss in foodstuffs
and in food-values, and no tables avail-
able show the loss of food the nation
has suffered from this social development.
If these are accounted small factors,
New Guinea and the North of Australia,
unused and capable of great development,
still furnish arguments against the lamen-
tations from the laboratories of the
scientists that the world is (a) too full of
people, or ( b ) too empty of food. Un-
believable areas suitable for agriculture
support only a few cattle, some wild
donkeys and hordes of marsupials.
Critics of the Territory maintain that
the agricultural land is only in “pockets” ;
but agricultural country, in the best lands
in the world, exists only in pockets. The
pockets in Northern Australia —for in-
stance, about the King River—are so
huge as to form sizeable territories.
It was Britain’s agricultural possibilities
that earned for her the name of the
“Granary of Europe,” and her food-
production has increased many times over
since, 2000 years ago, the name was first
applied to her. Yet huge areas of the
United Kingdom are barren wastes —the
Yorkshire moors, the Welsh hills, the
Salisbury Plains, the Highlands of Scot-
land, the Downs, to name only a few.
The agricultural wealth of even tiny
Britain exists only in pockets, a fact which
should confound the detractors of the
Territory. It should be obvious that
ground which will raise useless spear-
grass to an annual height of 12ft. and
more will grow other crops of benefit to
man.
But since scientists have raised this
subject and spread this concern, why
shouldn’t scientists themselves do some-
thing about it? There is a wide field
of opportunity for them in the sea.
The first material thing which distin-
guished man’s transition from caveman
and hunter to conservationist and farmer
was the fence, and the first fence was
raised near Babylon so long ago that the
date wifi never be established. The fence
allowed man to keep stock, to improve
it by breeding, to ensure a reserve of
food against hard times. It enabled him
to eliminate the competition of wild
animals for his food-plants, and allowed
him to keep a garnered harvest in some
degree of safety.
But in that four-fifths of the world
covered by the oceans, man is still cave-
man. He has built no fence, conserved
no food, encouraged nowhere the growth
of crops. In some places he does garner
the wild harvest of the sea, but these
places and these garnerings are few. He
has not even attempted to utilise the huge
production of plankton which is the basic
sustenance-offering of the waters.
Yet the sea is rich and steadily getting
richer, taking from the land at the mouth
of every river, with the lash of every
wave on every beach. The crops of the
sea grow infinitely faster, in the favored
areas, than the crops of the land. The
animals of the sea propagate in infinitely
greater numbers.
The farmer who keeps a couple of
breeding-pigs is lucky to have twenty at
the end of a good year. If he farmed
crayfish he could have 600,000; once he
proved successful at fencing them from
their enemies. Indeed, crayfish are easier
to keep, to feed and to nourish than are
swine.
So if the scientist is really as concerned
about the world’s food-supply as his
frequent Jeremiads on the topic suggest,
couldn’t he look to this practically in-
exhaustible source? Is it unreasonable
to expect that the brains which worked
out the details of the atom-bomb, plod-
ding gamely from step to fantastic step,
all in unison with thousands of other
brains similarly equipped, and as discip-
lined as an army of soldier-crabs —is it
unreasonable to expect that the scientists
could evolve a method of fencing the sea?
Is there not a ray, a radio-beam, a
wavelength at their command which fish
would find themselves unable or un-
willing to cross, in the same way as farm
animals are prevented from negotiating
the single strand of an electric fence?
Couldn’t they isolate large areas where
domestic fish could be fattened and
brought to a prime, and marketed?
Perhaps, without the scientists, such
farms could be established in a small
way, in favorable estuaries and inlets;
especially with fish whose travelling
habits are limited, as are those
of most of the crustaceans. Already
we are learning more about the
sea and its animals than anyone knew
before. Our harvest from the sea has
been, we find, gleaned with mumbo-jumbo
and spells, in the same way as that in
which the caveman set about his hunting.
Spear-fishermen, going down and
watching the fish in their own surround-
ings, have taught us much in a few years.
We know, for instance, that there was a
great deal more sense in the abo., who
splashed the water mightily about before
he fished to attract his unwary victims,
than there is in the white man, with his
taboo on splashes or noise anywhere near
his line.
We are learning sufficient about the
habits of fish to catch them in greater
quantities. And we will never deplete the
population of the sea even if the world’s
population doubles itself.
But this is not enough by a long way.
No matter what methods we use to catch
fish, we are still cavemen, at sea. Latest
methods include fishing by electrolysis,
a method which promises some chance
of pre-selection for size, and consequent
opportunities for conservation of the
breeding fish. But even in this we are
merely being cavemen with new weapons.
The farming of the sea must come.
Mechanically we are ready for it. We
can till the underwater plains with sub-
marine equipment, at least on all the
greater shoals. We have experimented
with fishpools on land, and with the
fertilisation of Scottish lochs. We have
introduced seafish to new areas, where
they have sometimes thrived. The
Atlantic salmon, for instance, thrived in
New Zealand Waters; the Atlantic lobster
perished.
If this is fantasy, it is fantasy a great
deal more capable of realisation than was
the transmutation of metals a couple of
decades ago—before the atom made trans-
mutation a reality. I believe that the
world'must move towards the utilisation
of its empty spaces, and the greatest of
the empty spaces is that covered by sea-
water. I believe that the problem will be
tackled before very long.
But my belief could remain a private
dream for ever were it not for one factor.
That factor is the antagonism natural to
a man peremptorily told that, unless he
and his kin change their living habits, fife
itself is threatened.
I do not believe in a world threatened
by famine. I do not believe that we can
lay the blame for the scarcity of any of
the world’s goods at any other door than
our own. Ido not believe in the dictator-
ship of the priests of the Sacred Cow
that is modern science.
I got boiling mad when I read the
words of Professor A. V. Hill in his
presidential address to the British Asso-
ciation in Belfast. The professor asked
the fatuous question: “Are we [the
scientists] justified in doing good when
the foreseeable consequences are evil?”
He was referfing to the work of modern
science in saving lives, and the “foresee-
able evil” was a world filled with people
who could not be fed. But did the
scientists ask themselves this question
when they worked on the splitting of the
atom?
If the foreseeable consequences of what-
ever the scientists are doing are evil, then
the scientists are doing evil. That’s plain
enough, and the question of whether they
should continue doing it is a personal one
for each of them. It is not the function of
a scientist to dictate to others which
courses of action are good and which evil.
If the scientists are really, worried about
the world’s food-supply, there is plenty
they can do. The problem and the method
are their own. So far, they have come up
with the atom-bomb —and it could be a
solution, if they can manufacture atom-
bombs in sufficient quantity and distri-
bute them widely enough. But if, instead
of reducing the consumption of food in
this manner, they decided in their wisdom
to increase its production, they have not
far to look for avenues of employment.
As Played
THE wicket, easy and lifeless,
was a batsman’s paradise ; con-
sequently play in the pre-
lunch session on the first day of
the Test match had been what the
. sporting scribes call a “grim
struggle.”
Australia’s openers, McDreery and
Borus, had 26 up on the board be-
fore going, still unconquered, to
restore their flagging fibres with re-
freshment. During the 90 minutes’
play McDreery, using his famous
two-eyed, plantigrade stance, had
rattled up nine, including a mad
burst when he had got a two and a
single in one over. Borus had bril-
liantly belted up seven, all singles,
Leg-byes was top-scorer with 10.
The after-lunch session began in
style befitting awareness of the awful
responsibility that was theirs.
Borus took strike. The first ball
was a full toss outside the leg stump.
Exercising the greatest caution, he
moved across and patted it gently
back along he pitch.
The watching selectors breathed
concerted sighs of relief Obviously
they shared the fear that the corned-
beef and salad he had recently had
might have so wrought upon the
batsman that he would be recklessly
tempted to have a dip.
Borus’s face reflected his triumph.
By refraining from making a scoring
stroke he might well have saved
some spectator from having a para-
lytic one which might have resulted
had he hit four boundaries.
The next eight overs.yielded riches,
McDreery took his score dashingly
to 14 after only 128 minutes’ play
with a four—the first of the match
—which included three from an over-
throw.
Then came the first real sensation
of the day. McDreery had just poked
a half-volley towards silly mid-on,
who was just walking in to pick it
up, when a fight broke out on the
Hill—a spectator, reading a descrip-
tion of the morning’s play in the
just-out cable-edition, had resentfully
pushed off a fellow who kept falling
asleep on his shoulder.
At quarter-past three, by which
time the score had shot up to 43 in
150 minutes, the hard-pressed um-
pires called urgently for black coffee
for themselves,' and while this was
being drunk the wicketkeeper took
a quick sniff of benzedrine —he
couldn’t afford to risk a clout by
falling asleep while sitting on his
haunches. A flock of starlings, which
had been foraging quietly between
silly mid-off and point while play
had been in progress, had flown off
in alarm when it temporarily ceased.
Ten minutes after resumption of
play a tired voice from the Hill stand
got as far as “Yer’ll never get”
but it trailed off into a hopeless yawn.
A man in the members’ stand who
had been sitting on the back of his
neck with his feet up on a seat with
eyes closed and murmuring “fnff”
every time he breathed, opened one-
eye and said drowsily “Anyone
shcore la’ly?” but dropped off again
before'anyone could answer him. A
radio-commentator estimated that if
they could have been converted into
horsepower the yawns emitted by
the spectators since commencement
of play could have kept Bunnerong
powerhouse from having four black-
outs on zone day.
At last came Borus’s downfall,
Perhaps it was that he had been un-
nerved when at his request the sight-
board had been shifted, resulting in
the man fielding at straight hit, who
bad been taking a catnap against the
® d §f structure—he hadn t
Welded a ball there all day tailing
over - Anyway* Borus went for a big
k of ’ tb ; s was when P the
; o( the newsboy later
woke with the e ' xtr as”
and they saw the photo of it on the
Back’oaee
Ho P z ltt, Australia’s captain and
incomi batsm an, started off bril-
liant, * blocking the flrst seven
u J he ha | a bad lapse by
turni ’ g last one for two flne
w. A gasp came from the members’
standj proving that at least one
enthusiast was still awake,
The score soa red on cast-iron
pi n i on s to one for 62 after 195
m i nu tes’ play, and at the tea adjourn-
ment McDreery was still uncon-
quered for 21. While the batsmen
were imbibing their nerve-reviving
strong tea the band played “Funeral
March of a Marionette” and “O
Sleep Why Dost Thou Leave Me?”
The first 10 overs after tea yielded
six runs, including a no-ball, a bye,
a leg-bye and two wides. The un-
usually speedy scoring caused many
spectators who were making for the
exits to pause.
How fortunate were they who did,
and thus experienced a sensation that
brought the amazing and thrilling
day’s play to a close,
Howzatt had blocked the last 24
balls bowled at him so as to “keep
his wicket intact” for the morrow’s
pushing and poking, blocking and
packing-up. Then in the final over
of the day some atavistic urge to
wild adventure, some demon of reck-
lessness had prompted him to knock
the ball instead of lean his bat against
it and it happened to go between two
fieldsmen. He called and ran. There
was rib response from his team-mate,
It was not until he was almost at the
other end that he saw that Me-
Dreery, apparently overcome by the
monotonous sound of ball falling
against a dead bat, had gone to sleep
standing up.
It was a fatal mistake, but, oh,
what a boon for everybody else!
BO.
STORIES
“Once a Sheep-stealer”
by E. O. Schlunke
One of the most versatile short-story
writers in Australia, Schlunke can be
comic, serious or profound about
Germanic farming communities,
Italian prisoners-of-war, city milb-
bars and suburban house-agents. In
this story he’s among sheep-stealers
disguised as house-builders.
In next week’s ‘‘Bulletin”


The Bulletin
Wednesday , January 7, 1953
VoL 74—No, 3804
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man’*
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia ; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
DETERRENTS TO SAVINGS
The wider aim of the London economic conference, the
Prime Minister explains, was “a concerted plan for the
freeing of world trade through restoring the free con-
vertibility of sterling.” The concerting has so far been
devised without the United States and the dollar
market, whose full co-operation will be necessary.
American assent to the principle of American
investment in sterling countries will be needed, and,
essentially, a lowering of the U.S. tariff against sterling
imports. But it will still not be “world trade,” for
Soviet Russia and its satellites —the Soviet bloc now
includes China also—remain outside.
And, just as a breakdown of the Soviet’s cold-war
(political and economic) against the democracies
depends upon the latter developing sufficient strength
to compel Russian respect, so presumably the chances
of negotiating the sort of co-operation desired by the
sterling area from U.S.A. depends upon the sterling
area’s prior demonstration of restored economic
stability and trading-power. Since trading-power is
essentially investment-power, what Mr. Menzies is
trying to hammer home upon Australian political and
business minds is that, without energetic self-help, to
look for outside help is vain. We have got to increase
our own trading-power by increasing production,
thereby reducing costs and augmenting the sterling
pool.
For this effort, says Mr. Menzies, “we may be
able to get outside assistance for public works, but
we shall get none unless we are prepared to put first
things first” —meaning priority in capital investment
for works calculated to increase exports for which the
overseas market looks to this country. “We must not
waste capital, for it is scarce”; and, since “in Aus-
tralia loan development works are essentially State
works,” when Mr. Menzies says that the State pro-
grammes will have to be more strictly vetted he is
conveying that British investors and directors of the
International Bank are both putting the same screw on
the Commonwealth Government as borrower.
Mr. Menzies then refers to the job we have
got to do for ourselves. Any notion that the investment
capital we need “can be secured by an inflationary
use of bank credit” is “foolish and completely opposed
to the principles evolved by the conference” to restore
sterling’s prestige. Such bad money would drive away
any good investment money if only by increasing
already inflated local costs. That is obvious. And so
Mr. Menzies comes down to bedrock in this country’s
difficulties, the real meaning of the oft-proclaimed
necessity to increase man-hour production and lower
production-costs. “We must,” he says, “earn and save
more capital.... Our domestic savings are our first and
principal source of new investment.”
At this point Mr. Menzies seems to prepare to
answer questions. The order of action, he says, is
increased production, leading to reduced costs, leading
to stabilised prices, leading to reduced taxation —and
thus will follow increased savings for investment.
Incontestably it is futile to look for thrift, the
accumulation of savings, for public investment in a
society writhing in the grip of currency inflation.
Mr. Menzies is right in insisting on the checking of
inflation as a first step towards any economic progress
whatever. But since he has entered the lists as
champion for the most effective form of capitalist
society—nation-wide saving for investment in national
works and services by a spread of investors —his Gov-
ernment (and all other Governments) should recognise
some obligation to begin by reversing the current and
damaging discouragement of all saving or desire to
save. Inflation is not the only poison in the capitalist
system. As a result of excessive taxation the tradi-
tionally thrifty ranks in the community are coming to
regard saving for investment as not only illogical but
even impossible.
Double probate and succession duties are, under
recent State Government increases, a positive deterrent
to private thrift. The deterrent losses of investors in
Government “security” loans within the past two years
is a familiar story. It is not enough for the Com-
monwealth Treasurer to say that investors in industrial
shares have lost even more ; he could at least make it
his business to insist in the Loan Council that all Gov-
ernments should agree to accept Government bonds at
face-value for satisfaction of death-duties. Did not all
Governments join in offering and guaranteeing them?
The Treasurer’s answer above-quoted is out of
order, too, because, if the depreciation of industrials
has, as he says, been the greater, one cause is clearly
the Commonwealth Government’s double-taxation of
earnings from company investment —first as income
THE HIGH-JUMP
earned by the company and again as income received
by .shareholders. This taxation of company-income a
second time in the hands of individuals is a war-time
slug carried over into the post-war age under the
influence of a bloated bureaucracy, the rulers of every
Government of whatever political color, whose main
object in life is to relinquish no shred of taxing-power
once obtained.
The thrifty in the community have been hit so
hard, in fact, by direct taxation —on top of inflation,
which is the most remorseless tax of all, and universal
—that Mr. Menzies will have to do something along
the lines indicated to re-establish thrift if he is to
achieve his stated purpose. That is true whether his
objective is as far-reaching as the assurance of a
prosperous Commonwealth for our children, or the
temporary expedient of winning the coming Senate
elections.
"Labor" Plans for Communism
The Australian Labor Party is approaching its
Triennial Federal Conference, to open in Adelaide
on January 19, with tiptoe wariness. Its leaders
will breathe a sigh of relief if they weather the meeting
without disaster, for the air will be full of darting
f ano <? and nolitical venom
Ian ° s ana pom,cai venom.
Most of the Press organs of the party are mam-
tabling a funereal silence about the prospects. The
December issue of the official organ of the Federal
a.L.P., published in N. S. Wales, makes great play
w flb what was done in the A.L.P. executive meeting
held in November when a new “preamble” to the
par ty constitution was adopted ; but it has nothing
tQ sa y 0 f w hat kind of a reception is expected for
some odl er matters which must be discussed.
_ . , ~ ~ . . , ...
Il: seems that the executive appointed a com tt
Messrs. Reece, M.H.A., J. D. Kenny, a
Beadey. M.P.-which framed the new declaration
aims and beliefs. From this it appears that the
party will be asked to reject theories of revolution,
paTV str csr «-
Corpus Act (which it placed in abeyance when it was
P d need v ful t int £ m the innocent Australia First
men)j and aver that the national welfare “ can not be
secured by any political movement subject to inter-
nado nal discipline, such as the Communist party.”
11 Z, ; ■ ’ , . , . , ... .
The spectacle of this asseveration being submitted
for acceptance, as it will be, to the Federal Conference
of a party seeded to its very heart with cast-o
members of the Central and State Committees of the
Communist party might raise a laugh if there were no
other things more arresting for discussion.
There is, for instance, a proposal, somewhat
singular in the face of this last part of the preamble
quoted above, initiated in the A.L.P. itself,
for a joint Council of Labor parties within the British
Empire- yes, Empire, for there are elections coming,
and the British migrant vote is important. And it
seems, according to the “Labor Call,” that it is
intended ultimately to turn this new body into a
“world council.” It is not said how this, if it is
adopted, will square with the party’s new aversion to
“international discipline.”
No mention of any proposed debate on the
socialisation objective or the recognition of A.L.P.
industrial-groups is made in the summaries of the 143
motions put forward, and most of which will
be pruned by an agenda committee. “Domestic,
electoral, taxation, peace and defence, immigration,
housing, arbitration and employment, price-control,
social services, rural development and constitutional
powers” are all due for an airing. But there is no
specific mention of the two subjects which are tearing
the internals of the party to pieces.
There is, however, reference to some proposals
emanating from N. S. Wales, the State of
Evatt and Cahill, which should make all electors think
hard, for they seem designed to produce immediate
introduction of socialisation by a side-wind —or several
side-winds.
At the executive meeting in November the N. S.
Wales State branch supported uniform taxation, and
proposed that the Commonwealth Bank should have
“the sole right to issue credit, same as the note-issue,
and that this department of the Commonwealth Bank
be under the direct control of Parliament.”
It was pointed out in the debate that in the
Chifley Bank Bill of 1947 these measures had been
ruled ultra vires by the High Court. Now, N. S. Wales
has come forward for the January Triennial Confer-
ence with fresh resolutions. It proposes that the Loan
Council be abolished and a “national-credit council
established, to consist of the Treasurer of each State
and the Commonwealth, and a representative of local-
government —Jock Garden’s ancient plan.
This body it proposes shall “issue debt-free loans
based on a credit-issue par to the annual value
of raw materials in Australia and drat these
loans be available tor “public worka ; and to
‘‘adjust and underwrite the debts of the State’railways;
shire and municipal councils, to build roads exte d
branch railways, develop new . md u str.al enterprises and
make advances for home-budding at low interest ral
If this engaging suggestion shouid be carried ou
in combination with
which it is proposed to secure atithority througn
another referendum), uniform taxation *
“national-credit” body’s supervi si o n, pr e „
export of “goods in short supply, especially foodstutts
the maintenance of the 40-hour week, andjomeother
measures which are being hopefully sugg ,
conference, the Communist dictatorship
and bankruptcy with it. , hnl j
It is as well that this Triennial Conference should
precede the State elections and Federal Senate po ,
so that the “swinging vote, so important a
present with the Menzies Government, can have no
excuse for not knowing what to expect if it gi
Cahill and Federal “Labor” a majority.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Evatt on Peace
Again “changing plumage in mid-flight,”
Dr, Evatt at the weekend resumed his
Senate election campaign with a Sunday
broadcast on his policy for international
peace. Hitherto he has assailed the Gov-
ernment’s defence preparations as “war-
mongering” ; now “the international
situation is so serious” that “nothing
could be worse than too easy an optimism
or taking world peace for granted.”
The Menzies Government is still in-
competent in his view, however, because
it does not work U.N.O. as, by implica-
tion, Dr. Evatt could. His peace-plan is
(1) arbitration by the International Court
of Justice, which should lay down “a
just and reasonable settlement by which
all parties would agree to be bound in
advance” ; (2) informal talks between the
leaders of the great Powers; (3) uni-
versal membership of the United Nations.
As to (1) Dr. Evatt could not
get such agreement about compulsory
arbitration before an Australian court
even in Australian union politics ; as to
(2) he would not apply his own remedy
to correct the damage done by “Labor’s”
own cold-war in Australia ; and, as to
(3) by suggesting that Communist China
should be allowed to shoot its way into
the U.N., he is advocating nothing but
scuttle in Korea.
This ex-judge of the High Court whose
comments on the Atlantic Charter the
other day showed that he doesn’t know
the difference between a guarantee and
an expression of hope talks of “a further
practical step to reorganise U.N.0.” by
removing the unrestricted veto as though
all that is necessary to bring that about
is to vote for Evatt and “Labor” at the
Senate elections. No doubt those church
cliques which believed in the Reds’
Peking conference by which Dr. Evatt’s
white-haired boy, Dr. Burton, was going
to cure the world’s troubles will plump
for the Evatt peace-plan now. “Cure
the veto by a Senate vote for Evatt”—
the man who turned the Senate into a
veto-chamber for 18 months —is the most
hollow proposition put up by this politi-
cal somersauffer for a long time.
Jamboree at Greystanes
For the past week the timbered slopes of
Greystanes, a few miles out from Parra-
matta (N.S.W.), have been converted into
a hustling, bustling canvas town with a
population of 12,000, a figure exceeded
by only a handful of towns in New
South Wales. The hustling and bustling
are done with much enthusiasm, and to
the accompaniment of much noise, by
12,000 Boy Scouts from all parts of Aus-
tralia and from countries in, or bordering
on, the Pacific; for Greystanes is the
scene of the Pan-Pacific Jamboree, a get-
together of scouts of many races and
creeds.
The New Zealanders are there in full
force, ready to turn on a Maori dance
at the slightest encouragement; the
Papua-New Guinea contingent is there,
its tent-area approached through an
ornate gateway flanked with two human
skulls of unstated origin. Malaya and
Singapore have sent nearly a hundred
boys with a fine display of their native
arts and crafts ; Ceylon and Indonesia
are well represented ; so are Vietnam, the
Philippines, Fiji and Nauru. A batch of
Sea Scouts from Hong Kong has
brought its own dragon and several
chests of trinkets and souvenirs, which
make the Hong Kong area the Mecca
of “swappers” from all over the camp.
Geography is a mere circumstance at
a Pan-Pacific Jamboree, so it is not really
surprising to find an Icelander, who
apparently got his oceans mixed, living
cheek-by-jowl with the Hongkongers.
His is the most-sought-after autograph
in the camp, and he has adopted a self-
defence line of talk for all questioners.
It goes like this; “We Icelanders don’t
live in igloos. I live in a house very like
your own; it has hot and cold running
water and electricity is laid on. I don’t
eat blubber.” Next to him, and also
somewhat out of his sea, is a Maltese lad,
who proudly adds to his autograph
“Malta, George Cross.”
The keynote of the Greystanes Jam-
boree, as of every jamboree since Baden-
Powell opened the first at Olympia, Lon-
don, in 1920, is fraternisation—the oppor-
tunity for lads of various lands to get to
know each other; a chance to begin a
brotherhood of boys which may one day
grow into a brotherhood of man. Since
8.-P. died there has been no World
Chief Scouk—that position belonged
peculiarly to the founder, and there could
logically be no successor—but scouting is
still an international movement in the
best sense of the word. It encourages
boys of all races and creeds to regard
each other as equals without asking them
to give up their own national loyalties.
Naturally the vast majority of the
12,000 lads under canvas at Greystanes
are Australians. For most of them the
Jamboree is the first opportunity they
have had of meeting youngsters from
other lands ; in many cases the first time
they have been outside their own State.
They cannot fail to benefit from the
experience and from this widening of
their horizons. In that respect the choice
of Greystanes as the site for the jamboree
could hardly have been a happier one;
the camp stands on land that was part
of the original grant to William Lawson,
who, with Wentworth and Blaxland, first
crossed the Blue Mountains and opened
up new horizons for the infant colony of
New South Wales, Its 646 acres later
belonged to Philip Charley, one of the
original seven shareholders in Broken
Hill Proprietary and a leading stock-
breeder.
New Year Honors
New Year and Queen’s Birthday honors
are no doubt an incentive to do good,
but it seems a pity that Governments
don’t show a little more originality.
This year’s list has the normal stereo-
typed features, with a little more lavish-
ness than usual in the knighthood depart-
ments. There are the usual donors of
surplus wealth, the usual medical man,
the K.C.M.G. normally allotted for a
Minister of the Crown who wants one.
The normal quota of C.B.E.s and 0.8.E.s
are handed out in the just proportion
which is always observed—a regulation
one or two to be given in proper turn
to senior civil servants and ambassadors;
the 0.8.E.s which often are given to
people of more merit and capacity than
those who receive knighthoods and
C.B.E.s, after the assistant-secretaries and
other civil servants have taken their quota.
Some are for charity-workers and presi-
dents of bodies which command votes,
an occasional one squeezed out for “litera-
ture,” and more rarely for art. The
military get theirs by quota according to
routine and rank, right down to the
corporals.
But the most striking feature is how
few people in the Commonwealth who
are not civil servants or presidents or
secretaries of associations have any merit.
Brilliant scientists, outstanding agricul-
turists and wool-improvers, writers of
world-wide acclaim, publishers who have
put Australian books on the map, de-
velopers of technical processes—ttyese
seem rarely to attract the eyes of those
who make out the honors-lists unless they
have either been civil servants or officials
of a society or made sufficient money to
give it away in quantity to political
organisations or to charity.
Somebody might remind Canberra be-
fore the Coronation or next Birthday
honors come along that many of the
leading commanders who fought to save
this country during World War II are still
unhonored. It is almost unbelievable
that the commanders of the Huon cam-
paign and the Chief of the General Staff
during the war were not knighted at its
end—the latter had to wait until he be-
came a State Governor for a recognition
which almost any State Minister can
have for the asking after a few shuffling
years of office.
Cahill’s "Grim Crisis"
These State elections are very important,
but when N.S.W. Premier Cahill rushes
in to declare that he will not be able to
attend a Loan Council meeting in mid-
January because he has his elections at
the end of the second week in February
he is not showing much concern for the
interests of the State which he expects to
continue controlling after those elections
are over.
Westralia is also holding State elections
on the same day in February, but Premier
McLarty evinces no such overriding in-
terest in party above his State.
Mr Cahill s attitude looks the worse
because his election policy for expenditure
on public works will mean nothing if it is
propounded in independence of the
national programme to be thrashed out
a far more drastic review of
priorities than anything hitherto per-
functorily discussed at these meetings of
heads of Governments. A month
ago he purported, in a form of
words, to recant from his party’s
worst excesses in an appeal to the
electors to vote for a programme
of expenditure without limit whether the
necessary funds are available or not. He
has departmental officers who could pre-
pare a plan for N. S. Wales’s idea of
priorities without any interference in his
Government’s preoccupation with the
elections. Since Mr. Cahill evidently
does not think so, his stand can only
mean that he would oppose co-operation
in a national programme whether elections
were in the offing or not.
The N.S.W. Premier was so pre-
occupied with his party pre-election
squabbles that he had no Christmas mess-
age for the community whose public
affairs his Government has mismanaged
and whose public services it has ruined
to make a perpetual union holiday. But
he sent a Christmas message to “Labor’s”
Melbourne “Call” which read:
We are today in combat with a grim
economic crisis. In every street, as you
know, there are workers without work
this Christmas.... In this crisis the
“Labor” party must guide the nation to
prosperity, as we have done in other days
of politically-manufactured depression.
The Cahill-McGirr crowd have for the
whole post-war period been “guiding”
N.S.W. into nothing but bankruptcy, and
such economic disturbance as Australia
has suffered has resulted from an inflated
currency and a union-made shortage of
goods which were politically manufac-
tured by the “Labor” party during 1946-49
when the Chifley-Evatts at Canberra and
the McGirr-Cahills in Sydney bent their
whole political energies into the fastening
the dead hand of socialisation upon Aus-
tralian industry.
The reason why Mr. Cahill can’t make
it convenient to attend the most import-
ant meeting in the Loan Council’s history
is that he doesn’t want to face the facts
but to campaign against them with the
propaganda that his mob can “find” the
money, and easy money at that, which
eludes everybody else.
Australia v. Argentine
The new British meat agreement with the
Argentine shows where Australia is going
with the policy of loaf and squander
introduced by the Chifley-Evatt Govern-
ment.
Australia is expected to export 140,000
tons of meat to the United Kingdom in
"Euthanasia" of
the Investor—page 14
1953, while Maoriland sends 360,000 off
her comparatively few and shaky acres.
Our methods of rearing and fattening
beef are just a few years ahead of those
followed in the Garden of Eden —rear
them on breeding country, walk them
to fattening country, shake them
and bruise them well in an out-
of-date train with the most primitive
methods of feeding and watering, and
then export the average second-rate pro-
duct to a Homeland starving for meat
and therefore compelled to buy anything
that comes along. There has been im-
provement in the last few years, but not
as much as there should have been. The
corn-fed, thoroughly-nursed steer, trained
from birth to make his last railway
journey without suffering loss of weight
to any degree, is scarcely known in this
country.
While our production slides under the
weight of drought and the high
cost of everything, the Old Country
has succeeded in re-establishing better
trading relationships with the Argentine,
where the heart of the beef industry is
lucerne and the bulk of the export is
baby-beef and choice. Thus the Argen-
tine, which formerly got £AIS7 10s. a
ton for its frozen beef, is this year to
receive £2Ol a ton for 234,000 tons of
beef, plus 16,000 tons of other meat.
The price is £53 a ton higher than
the Australian price, due to difference in
quality.
It is a shameful fact that little Britain,
on an area the size of Victoria, has an
annual meat output as large as Australia’s.
Maoriland's Food-supply
Small and sparsely-settled as New Zea-
land is, a population-growth of a thou-
sand a week is slowly gaining on the
food-supply. This means that the
youngest generation of Maorilanders
may live to see the day when the little
country will have no surplus of butter
and meat, and may have to buy abroad
to get enough to eat. As most other
countries will be in the same boat by
then, probably sooner, the long-term out-
look for food doesn’t seem too bright.
Already surpluses in most countries are
falling fast enough for the spectre of
shortage to be looming up, and the world
as a whole may have to tighten its belt
a good deal long before the end of this
century.
When Maorilanders look at the world
they can see plainly that starvation has
an odds-on chance of overtaking most
others a long while before it will catch
up with them. After four to five genera-
tions since the earliest of the pioneers,
with axe and firestick, began to lay waste
New Zealand forests, there’s still enough
productive capacity in the plains of
Canterbury, Hawkes Bay and the Waira-
rapa, in the rich dairying lands of the
Waikato and in the fertile Taranaki and
elsewhere to keep the wolf from the door
for another generation or two, barring a
population-rise far greater than anything
at present in sight. At the moment the
distant outlook is one that interests only
the academically-minded—urban drift
and northward drift notwithstanding. It
is only a matter of months since Maori-
land’s total population passed the two-
million mark.
A hint by an Auckland professor of
geography. Dr. K. B. Cumberland, on the
eve of the New Year, that Maorilanders
might be eating all they produce by 1973,
didn’t attract more than a passing glance.
To most Maorilanders the greatest danger
on the horizon is lack of population, not
excess of it. With proper management
of resources, intensive cultivation and a
sensible balance in industry, they can see
no reason why they should be over-
crowded with five, or even 10, times the
present number of mouths to feed. With
a bit of extra effort they should be able
to lift dairy- and meat-production for
many years yet—and they’re eating only
a quarter of their butter and cheese and
a third of their meat now. No one can
say they are overworked on a 40-hour
week in offices and factories, even if they
dislike visitors telling them their country
is a “lazy-man’s paradise.”
As the years go by the tendency is still
to be overfed, but soaring prices and a
record cost of living are beginning to take
a hand. The financial squeeze may
bring a change before the law of
diminishing returns on the farms. Many
families are up against a domestic
budgetary problem now, and most others
haven’t much margin.
British Aircraft
The British aircraft industry, with £75-
million-worth of orders on its hands, has
put badly out of joint the noses of other
countries which expected to seize its
business. Both in military and civilian
aircraft it now has a comfortable lead,
due to British designers’ habit of dealing
solidly in realism, remembering that the
engine is the heart of everything that
flies and not being tempted for publicity
reasons to advertise until there is some-
thing to advertise about.
When World War II came people who
had sniggered for a decade discovered
that Britain’s fighters were years ahead of
the world’s for the purposes for which
they were designed, that the Baldwin Gov-
ernment four years before had placed on
the stocks Spitfires, Hurricanes, Halifaxes,
Stirlings and Lancasters (or their first
models), and that some of these were
unsurpassed for their purposes right to
the end. What the Americans developed
during war-time that improved on any-
thing British was produced out of British
basic experience, as indeed, to a large
extent, was the atom-bomb. The out-
of-date British in 1939 were years ahead
of the world in radar.
Now, after some laughter in Korea
about the Meteor and a little pity pro-
duced in certain quarters for the nation
whose 8.0.A.C. and offshoots has been
flying Constellations and Skymasters and
Convairs over all British routes, includ-
ing those in Australia, the Comets are
stealing the limelight in civil flying, along
with the Viscounts and the Britannias
and the proposed civil version of the
crescent-winged HP-80 bomber.
The Avon and Sapphire engines are
making history in the fighting field. British
bombers like the HP-80 and the Canberra
now going into production lead the
world, as did the Lancaster. Australian
squadrons are going over to American
Sabres from obsolescent British jet-
fighters—the world’s first in production
in great quantities, Britain having been
ahead of the rest in pioneering with jets
as in most other things-—but these will
have British Avon engines. And pre-
sently, no doubt, the new Hawkers de-
veloped from the 1072 (Hunter) model
will take their place.
One of the most revolutionary changes
which is going to happen to Australia in
the next two or three months is the ad-
vent of the D.H. Comet, already flying
on the London-South Africa route. The
(Continued on next page )


first is due to come across the Pacific m
February. The London-Sydney route will
be surveyed and developed later in the
year. Already the London-Tokyo route
is under development, and what is being
done there shows how much closer to the
rest of the world we will be in 1953 than
in 1952.' A 8.0.A.C. Comet flew from
near Bournemouth, in England, to Tokyo
on December 14-15 in 23 hours 53
minutes. This means Sydney to Tokyo
in about eight hours. It brings Darwin
within four hours’ bombing-range of
mainland Asia.
POLITICAL POINTS
New Zealand Premier Holland is
optimistic about the Dominion’s economy
in 1953, but has warned his countrymen
that living standards can be maintained
only by hard work and cannot be im-
proved without extra enthusiasm and
endeavor. In planning public works
priority will have to be given to those
most urgent and essential and rpost likely
to help increase production.
This emphasis on priorities is to be
they keynote of the Australian Premiers’
Conference, if and when held ; but it is
doubtful whether all the Premiers will
sing in tune. In theory they all agree
that the most important projects should
be completed first; in practice they tend
to insist that all the works on their own
lists are of vital importance. It’s the
other blokes’ lists that contain unneces-
sary items.
• •
Cahill complains that the N.S.W. elec-
tion will prevent his attendance at the
mooted Loan Council for the third week
in January. Westralian State polls are on
the same day, and S.A. and Queensland
will probably be holding elections soon
after. If those States take the same stand
as N. S. Wales, Menzies had better do his
stuff on strict priorities for public works
over the air, and ignore all protests about
interference in State politics.
• •
Evatt’s New Year broadcast said “full
employment” was “a guarantee given by
our leaders in the last world war,” By
“our leaders” he means Churchill and
Roosevelt in the Atlantic Charter (1941);
and this is what he calls their “guarantee”
(the quotation is from clause 5):
The signatories... .desire to bring about
the fullest collaboration between all nations
in the economic field, with the object of
securing for all improved labor standards,
economic advancement and social security.
when the London conference of
Empire Governments has resolved on
just such “full collaboration in the
economic field,” for the very purpose to
which Evatt refers, Evatt will have no-
thing to do with it—“a mere necklace of
platitudes,” he says.
The Doc. finished his message with:
There will never be a really free and
enlightened State until that State comes
to recognise the individual as a higher and
independent power from which all its own
power and authority are derived.
A very enlightened and ennobling
thought, but hardly one that fits in with
the socialisation objective of the party
the Doc. leads.
• •
Although not eager to quote J. B.
Chifley on the fallacy of trying to pay
for social services out of bank-credit,
“Labor” speakers plug his name for all
it’s worth on topics more suited to their
current policy. J. P. Ormonde, in par-
ticular, seems to have lines of communi-
cation not available to fellow-members of
his party. At an economic summer
school at Newport at which he accused
the A.L.P. industrial-groups of over-
reaching themselves in their attacks on
Communism, he warned them against
entering the “atmosphere of the witch-
hunt which the late Mr. Chifley warned
us about in his referendum campaign.”
Chifley died on June 13, 1951 ; the
Anti-Red referendum date was announced
on July 26 and the poll was held on
September 22,
• •
Finnan, the peregrinating Prices
Minister of the Cahill Government, seems
to have been wished upon the “Labor”
voters of the Albury electorate by the
State executive although there were local
A.L.P. men willing to stand, including
a former member for the district. It re-
mains to be seen whether Albury wants
him ; in 1950 Liberal D. G. Padman won
the seat by 1898 votes in a poll of 18,000.
• e
Debrett’s editor, Cyril Hankinson, was
nodding a little when he said that Clive
Baillieu was only the third Australian to
be raised to the peerage, the other two
being Forrest and Bruce. Two he over-
looked were Maurice Hankey, for many
years secretary to the British Cabinet and
the Imperial Defence Committee, and
Roy Robinson, chairman of the British
Forestry Commission. Both were
Adelaide-born and both were created
barons. Two other Australians who, as
Law Lords, were life-peers were Baron
Uthwatt, who was born in Ballarat, and
Baron Atkin, a Queenslander.
• •
Maxwell, J., N.S.W. Royal Commis-
sioner on Liquor, is now somewhere in
the Great Australian Bight on his way
to study drinking habits in other climes.
Before leaving he said that European
countries could show us a great deal. As
to the report he would issue after his
return, he would not anticipate it, but
“some reforms are so obvious you can
pick them yourself.” Citizens are now
picking them according to choice.
One comment the commissioner made
was that liquor was a touchy subject,
“possibly because Australia had not yet
THIS YEAR'S FISH STORY
“Because of State Government extravagance and financial irresponsibility, the Federal
Government proposes to hand back to the States the thankless job of collecting their own
income taxes in 1953-54 and subsequently.”
matured.” Some spirit-drinkers think it
is because the liquor hasn’t matured.
• •
“B.”: In comparing the drop in em-
ployment between November, 1951, and
September, 1952, which they take at
85,300, with the number of unemployed
recorded by the 1947 census (82,774), the
Associated Chambers of Commerce are
comparing things which are not strictly
comparable. To the drop-in-employ-
ment figures surely must be added the
increase in the work-force during the
period? As to the census figures, Senator
Ashley some months ago asked the Com-
monwealth Statistician for a dissection
of the 82,774. This is it:
Unable to secure employment .. 18,620
Temporarily laid off 14,179
Sickness and accident 21,204
Industrial dispute 475
Voluntarily unemployed .’ 223
Changing jobs 468
Resting.. 22,014
Other causes or not stated .. .. 5,591
82,774
Those idle through sickness or accident
could hardly be termed unemployed in
the ordinary sense of the word, and the
“resting” group, if reclassified at all,
would seem properly to belong to the
“voluntarily unemployed ”
• •
Road-hauliers have gained a new ally
in their campaign against road-taxes ; the
chairman of Britain’s Leyland Motors
is at present out here discussing the possi-
bility of establishing a truck factory.
Leylands are prepared to put £1 million
into the project, but not while road-tax is
“killing the industry and thousands of
haulage-contractors are being put off the
road.”
• •
N.S.W. coal-production for 1952 was
15 million tons compared with mil-
lion tons the previous year. Coal Board
chairman Cochrane ascribes the improve-
ment to three causes; (1) Concerted effort
to increase production; (2) less wastage
through strikes; and (3) an increase of
1000 in the number of men in the in-
dustry. Stocks at grass or in consumers’
hands total 2\ million tons, and the indus-
try is turning its thoughts towards build-
ing up an export trade ; 33,000 tons will
be shipped to Japan this month.
• •
An official of the Commonwealth
Treasury, F. H. Wheeler, of Melbourne,
is off to Geneva to become permanent
treasurer of the International Labor
Organisation at a salary said to be £BOOO
free of tax. Most Australians will wish
him good luck in landing the job and
will have no doubts of his ability to do
it as well as the next man. But as tax-
payers, and therefore the people respon-
sible for paying the salary (or Australia’s
proportion of it), they are entitled to ask
whether these international jobs really
merit the extravagant salaries they carry.
At current rates of taxation a man would
have to be receiving an income.of some-
where around £24,000 to be left with
£BOOO after paying his tax. As first
assistant-secretary of the Commonwealth
Treasury Mr. Wheeler’s salary was about
£2600. It is hard to believe that his
work at 1.L.0. wifi be so much more
exacting as to warrant the tremendous
difference.
This is not intended as a personal
criticism of Mr. Wheeler; presumably the
salary would be the same if the job
went to a Guatemalan or an Icelander.
He is merely Exhibit A in the case against
extravagance on a world scale. Aus-
tralia’s contribution to the cost of running
1.L.0. is about £65,000 a year, quite
apart from the cost of sending delega-
tions to its conferences, and Australia is
only one of 50-odd nations forming the
organisation. Our next delegation might
well be equipped with a few pruning-
knives.
• •
Australian Communist papers, like the
London “Daily Worker,” are writing their
heads off to convince their readers —and
probably themselves —that there was no
anti-Semitism about the Prague trials in
which 11 Jews and three Gentiles were
convicted of treason —most of them since
executed. Apparently the distinction in
these matters is quite simple; If a British,
American or other Western court convicts
a Jew, that’s anti-Semitism ; if a Com-
munist country convicts a Jew, that’s not
anti-Semitism.
• •
“Piper”: Pithiest comment I’ve heard
anent the Hyde Park (Sydney) subway (B.
24/12/’52) came from the top of my bus
whence one obtains a perfect view of
terra-cotta colored cement-rendered steps,
gleaming tiles and painted railings, the
surfaces of which wouldn’t employ a
fingerprint man for five seconds. “Biggest
bloody bit of pottery I ever seen,” grunted
my neighbor.
Lead jumped £5 a ton in London last
week, the reason given being the strike
at the smelters in Pt. Pirie (S.A.), where
almost one-tenth of the world output of
lead is produced. There’ll be a queer
sequel to this if the strike and the price-
rise continue. The bonus paid to Broken
Hill and Mt. Isa miners is determined by
the price of lead, so the Pirie strike could
mean bigger pay-envelopes in the two
mining towns.
• •
Strangest record claimed for 1952
comes, not unsurprisingly, from America.
It is that the U.S. for the first time went
through a whole year without a lynching.
The claim came from Alabama, and
Alabama should know ; it has seen lynch-
ings aplenty.
• •
Just before his knighthood descended
upon him Premier McLarty, of West Aus-
tralia, announced that his State would
go to the polls on February 14, the day
of the N. S. Wales election. The McLarty
Government took office in April, 1947,
after 14 years of “Labor” Governments
and was returned again in 1950. Present
state of parties is: Government parties,
26 (Lib. Country League, 17 ; Country
party, 9); “Labor,” 23 ; Independent, 1.
There was a certain amount of wrangling
between the two Government parties at
the 1950 election ; they’ll need to be more
closely united to win this time.
• •
Nothing seems surer than that Vic-
toria will have its State lottery. Cain’s
men are already saying they don’t know
any other way of raising the money
badly needed for the decaying hospital-
system.
Being “Labor” men they don’t believe
in taking it put of the workers’ pockets—
in any way that the workers would recog-
nise as an extraction —but they don't mind
taking it out of the workers’ pockets by
dangling golden carrots in front of their
noses.
• •
Cahill is still maintaining his know-
nothing attitude about Broken Hill hotel-
hours. He has “never made it a practice
to interfere with the police,” and as far
as Broken Hill booze is concerned “no-
thing has been brought to his notice.”
Apparently Premiers are not expected to
be aware of things that are common
knowledge to lesser mortals. But on
Sunday the B.H. pubs unexpectedly closed
at 1 p.m.—by whose orders nobody
seemed to know.
• •
There are no half-measures about
Blair Athol prophecies. The latest tells
of a £26-million scheme to develop the
vast Queensland coalfield. N. Y. “Times”
is ihe authority, and it says that two U.S.
concerns are prepared to put up the
money which will be used to modernise
the field, build a railway 150 miles to
the coast of Nevinport, where loading
facilities will be constructed. There’s no
such place as Nevinport on the map; it’s
to be named after Edward B. Nevin, head
of one of the firms said to be interested
in the project. Queensland has heard this
sort of thing before, but is listening hope-
fully once again.
• •
“Casca”: Once saw a Chinese boat
being rowed laboriously upriver with
sails furled despite a good following wind.
Just another Chinese action which the
foreigner finds incomprehensible. But
maybe the Chinese think us just as
illogical. At present we are trying to sell
coal to Pakistan the while Victoria is
importing coal from India. Queerer
still, a while ago we obtained a dollar-
loan partly for ’the purchase of earth-
moving equipment from U.S., and now
an American businessman has arrived
here to buy earthmoving equipment for
sale in U.S.


Dociety
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“A.D.S.” (Fiji): The newly-arrived
Government official pounced upon our
only ice-maker and forbade any further
sales until a sample of the water used
had been analysed. This meant an
uncertain period of tepid beer for all
but the fortunate few who owned a
fridge. The lukewarm hiatus sent, among
others, the mission Father fuming to the
ice-maker —and a furious discussion took
place. At last the Rev. Father clinched
it. “You’re not allowed to sell it, but
you can surely give me some you’re not
using!” This seemed logical enough, so
the ice was loaded into the mission truck
and the Father and his “boys” set off.
At the crossroads they met the high
panjandrum, who, unable to believe his
eyes, challenged with “What have you
got there?” His Riverince answered
“Daddy didn't like these ties he got for Christmas."
“Ice.” This frank admission somewhat
took the wind out of the official’s sails,
but he recovered sufficiently to ask,
“What are you going to do with it?”
Like r. whiplash came the answer: “Skate
on it.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kelvin”; To oblige a friend I under-
took to deputise for him at the Speech
Day at the select seminary attended by
his motherless teen-age daughter. The
ordeal was not as harrowing as I ex-
pected, thanks to the warm sociability
of a thirtyish lady whom my charge
introduced to me as the classics mistress
and about whose countenance there was
something strangely familiar. Next even-
ing when I called at the pub for the usual
the stately Hebe who had been handing
it to me for months pushed over the pot
with the arch smile of the classics mis-
tress of the previous afternoon and the
request “Mum’s the word!” which has
stymied to date my attempts to seek out
the story.
♦♦♦ *x* *
“Becks”: Only for a few brief moments
did I ever experience the dignity of high
rank in the Army. A week or so after
V.P.-day I was one of a party of 20 —-
all strangers to me and to each other —
who were flown from Wewak to the
2/11 A.G.H. at Aitape (N.G.) to have
our eyes tested for new spectacles. For
no other reason than to defeat my
favorite ambition —to finish up the war
as a gunner—authority had just given me
a bombardier’s two stripes. We landed
at Aitape and were whisked by truck to
the hospital and decanted into a waiting-
room. Presently, in came a cute little
A.A.M.W.S. with a list in her hand. She
glanced at it and then asked respectfully
for “Brigadier Becks.” After a momen-
tary hesitation I stood up. The rest of
the group instinctively stiffened up and
several rose to their feet. “Sit easy,
men,” I told them, but they had already
noticed my two hooks instead of a Brig.’s
regalia and were slumping back into their
former positions. I followed the lass out
into the passage. Then she saw the
hooks. “Why, you’re only a corporal,”
she said. “Bombardier,” I corrected her,
mindful of the honor of the Royal Aus-
tralian Artillery. “Two stripes means
a corporal,” she snapped as we reached
the door of the M.O.’s room, “Go in
there, corporal.”
* ❖ *
“X.S.”; The case was one in which the
usual Christmas casualty was charged
with being drunk and disorderly on the
pier at St. Kilda. “Were you on the
pier?” asked the p.m. “Yes, y’r Worship.”
“How long were you on it?” “Well, y’r
Worship, I don’t know exactly, but I had
a dozen bottles.”
“Cauboy”: Melbourne may or may
not be the musical centre of Australia,
but it is likely to become the Mecca of
discriminating film fans as a result of
the decision of the Federation of Film
Societies to hold its next film festival in
the Exhibition Building, instead of at
Olinda in the
Dandenongs. Last
year’s 01 in d a
festival was a
great success,
attended by high-
brows of the
cinema from all
States, but hund-
reds could not get
into the small
hall or find
accommodation in
the township.
Strange to say,
the classy stuff
that had won
awards in
America and
Europe didn’t
carry off the
honors at Olinda ;
it was the films
made by F. T.
Thring in the
ruins of His
Majesty’s Theatre
20 years ago,
some of which
had never been
shown before,
that made the big
hit. The Exhibi-
tion will accommodate three times as
many members, the festival will last three
days and in the daytime there will be
sessions on scientific, religious, animated,
experimental and documentary films, art,
ballet, drama and amateur film-making.
In the evenings the titbits will include
“Rashomon,” the Jap film which was a
sensation at the Venice festival, “Passio
de Jeanne d’Arc,” a silent French classic,
and “Moana,” Robert Flaherty’s film of
the ritual of pain practised in Samoa.
The festival will be held during Labor
Pay weekend next March.
♦> * ❖
“Jasby”: A Sydney “Herald” writer,
discussing the Pan-Pacific Jamboree now
in full cry at Greystanes (N.S.W.), said
that Baden-Powell had introduced the
word jamboree, “but could never re-
member where he had heard it.” This
brought a letter from a reader with
evidence that 8.-P. had believed the word
to be of North American Indian origin.
The writer pointed out that the old boy
was in error; that the Indians had no
“Anything else, dear ?”
such word and that it was really a slang
term for “an excessive drinking bout.”
The Shorter Oxford Dictionary confirms
this. Dating jamboree as 1872, it lists
three meanings:
1. A noisy revel; a carousal or spree
(U.S. slang). 2. In railroad euchre, a hand
containing the five highest trumps. 3. A
rally of Boy Scouts.
According to the Oxford the etymology
is uncertain, but Webster’s, which gives
similar definitions, derives it from
charivari. The “Herald” reader neatly
comments that jamboree is one of the
few words in which “the spirit of the
term has changed from the very worst
to the very best.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Emjai”: John Fountain’s narration of
the Upper Murray people (B. 10/12/’52)
strikes a train of recollections, one of
which was a meeting with the late David
Maginnity some 25 years ago, when he
was down for the Wangaratta races. His
recountal of the shooting of his father,
Sergeant Maginnity, by the outlaw,
Morgan, tallied in the main with the
version quoted. Nothing was too bad to
express his opinion of the brutal slayer,
and he was dumbfounded when I told
him that within a mile or so of where
we sat there was a monument to Morgan’s
memory. It is no doubt still there, in the
Wangaratta cemetery; a mound, flat-
tened by the years, and at the head of
it a sheet of quarter-inch iron cut to the
conventional shape and size of a tomb-
stone. Though blackened with rust, the
inscription was then still decipherable—
“Morgan”—and the date of death.
Maginnity was out at dawn to visit the
cemetery and see for himself, and “to
talk to what lay under the mound.”
“Bo”; A now-well-established minor
racket in the theatre business is the
“souvenir” programme. Originally intro-
duced to mark a gala occasion, it has
been seized upon for right-through-the-
season use. The selling technique is
beautifully simple and designed to net the
maximum number of suckers. A couple
of girls are placed at strategic positions
at the theatre-entrance. The patron,
escorting lady, enters, sees only in his
immediate vision two girls selling pro-
grammes and hands up two-bob. He
gets the programme and no change ; or,
if he puts up a bob, he gets a sweet smile
and a request for another coin of the
realm. That’s where the psychology of
salesmanship comes in. When you take
your girl or your wife to a night out you
don’t argue the point over a lousy bob.
But it is not until the patron settles in
his seat and goes through the “souvenir”
programme that he finds it contains no
information whatever about that par-
ticular night’s doings—it contains nothing
but photos of the principals, etc. He
can then sneak out, if the curtain hasn’t
already gone up, and get an ordinary
programme (one shilling) from the girl
who is selling them right near the d.c.
and stalls entrances —just where, in fact,
it is almost impossible for the patron to
see her on entering the theatre. Nice
work, if you can get it!
“Whelka”: During the war Italian
p.-0.-w. engaged in rural work gave
employers an early hint of language
difficulties to be encountered by
New Australians. The ex-mariner
allotted to me expressed the opinion that
his much-thumbed English-Italian dic-
tionary was “not too much good.”
Asked why, he informed me that many
“strong looks” had failed to find the
English words “nofear” and “goodon-
yuh.”
“Billy S.”: I was visiting some in-laws
when young Judith stormed in and said
“Uncle Bill, I paid two shillings for the
Christmas present I gave him” —pointing
to her little brother who was hanging
around in the doorway—“and he only paid
one shilling and sixpence for the present
he gave me, so doesn’t he owe me six-
pence?” I thought hard, walked the
room and in a flash of inspiration man-
aged to find 6d. on top of the piano-
well out of their range of vision. I
handed it to her saying “Santa must have
left that behind to square the account.”
It seemed to satisfy them both, although
later in the day I found the little bloke
up on the piano-stool giving the top of
the piano the once-over.
❖ ❖ ❖
“R.L.W.”; When, in 1943, Jerry agreed
to an exchange of prisoners, he called in
from all working parties those who
claimed to be medical personnel.
Claimants for exchange had to satisfy
the German repatriation staff of their
bona fides a§ non-combatants, and, for
this purpose, an English-speaking Nazi
doctor was employed. Rusty was the first
to be bowled out. The doctor attacked
with verbal rapidity. “Imagine there is
a man lying there; he has a fractured
skull, a bullet in the chest and bayonet-
wounds to the stomach and right groin.
You have ten seconds to answer —what
would you do?” Rusty scratched his
head. “I dunno, but I reckon I’d send
for a burial-party!” Rusty was still a
prisoner when V.E.-day arrived.
VOICE OF EXPERIENCE
“’The curator of the Australian Institute of
Anatomy, Canberra, Mr. R. P. Stone, said that
Phar Lap’s heart is on display because it is
bigger than the heart of an ordinary horse, but
that there is no reason to display Ned Kelly’s
skull: ‘The only reason to display it would be
the morbid interest it would create.’ ”
“Alack, alack” said Kelly’s skull ,
“Though Phar Lap’s heart is on display
They find me morbid, call me dull,
And hide me in the dark away :
Canberra’s Institute took on deposit
Poor Ned’s skellyton, and hid it in a
closet!
“1 might have told Curator Stone,
Had his been large as Phar Lap’s heart,
There’s many a sermon in a bone
That the false flesh will not impart.
“My skull might tell the man who
scanned it
That armor with a man inside
Cannot protect the ruthless bandit
As can a politician’s hide.
“I might have warned some ‘Labor’
cranks
With all to gain and nought to lose
That forcing loans and raiding banks
Can tighten a financial noose.
“And as a kind of New Year’s greeting
I might have told the virtuous poor
There’s mottoes better worth repeating
Than working less and taking more;
But Canberra’s Institute took on deposit
Poor Ned’s skellyton, and hid it in a
closet.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“F.S.”: If I were asked to say what
differentiated the past art season from
the shows of, say, 10 years ago, I would
say that the brick has ousted the gum-
tree. I saw enough bricks last year to
put an end to the housing-shortage. The
best thing that could be said about them
is that they looked like bricks; if a real
brick were put into most of the pictures
nobody would know the difference. This
isn’t art, but it is interesting as showing
how artists are determined by fashions.
Russell Drysdale started it, and Sali Her-
man carried it on. Now no artist is game
to leave the bricks out.
♦♦♦ *x* *x*
“Irving”: Refusal of a judge to accept
as divorce evidence a tape-recording of
what was alleged to be a wifely tirade to
which a man was treated at every meal
may be a setback to the experts, but I’m
a bit his way. At a slightly bacchanalian
revel held by the males of our staff the
other day we heard a recording of a
highly - diverting dialogue between
characters \Vhose voices were immediately
identified as those of an ultra-Pecksniffian
personage on the staff and his very
vinegary typist, though, even to those not
in the know, the concept of the two in
such a situation was as incongruous as
that of Old John Barleycorn at a Blue-
Ribboners’ meeting. Tire entirely false
“ Reverse , girls! And try it slower
and libellous picture was conjured by a
Rabelaisian script and a pair of good
mimics.
+*♦
“Uramao”: According to Disraeli, old
Bismarck would not have agreed that
horse-racing is a national curse. When
Dizzy was at the Berlin Congress in 1878
Bismarck asked him whether horse-racing
was still popular in England. Disraeli
assured him that it was more popular
than ever. ‘‘Then there never will be
Socialism in England,” said Bismarck,
“You are a happy country. You are safe
as long as the people are devoted to
racing. Here a gentleman cannot ride
down the street without twenty persons
saying to themselves, or each other, ‘Why
has that fellow a horse and I have not
one?’ In England the more horses a
nobleman has the more popular he is. So
long as the English are devoted to racing,
Socialism has no chance with you.”
♦♦♦ *
“X.S.”: Nudes in painting (B.
17/12/’52)? A stout matron dropped in
“They WOULD leave him on MY doorstep !”
at an art-show in the course of doing her
Christmas shopping, bought a catalogue
from the youthful manageress, looked at
the walls, then at the catalogue and then
at the manageress, who had obviously
been a model for one of the pictures. “I
wouldn’t let any artist paint me like that,”
said the matron. “No artist could paint
>ou like that,” retorted the damsel.
♦♦♦ ♦> ❖
“Squeeze”: Wonder if the Communists
have yet eliminated the old Chinese
custom o| “squeeze,” that amiable form
of blackmail practised in the Chinese
Army by generals and privates alike and
among Government officials of all grades.
In the business community it wasn’t even
confined to Celestials. Before the war I
was bos’n aboard a ship running between
Canton and Manila. No sooner were
we clear of the harbor than the profes-
sional gamblers would get to work. First
the bos’n had to be persuaded to supply
some trestle-tables. It was a lucky
coincidence that they were nice, big, flat
tables, ideal for a game of fan-tan. In
no time they would be erected and out
would come the gambling paraphernalia—
then, with timing born of long experi-
ence, the mate’s head would appear over
the edge of the hatch-coaming followed
by an angry shout. “Stop that gambling
down there,” he would roar, apparently
beside himself with rage. “I won’t have
it aboard my ship. Bos’n, put the blasted
lights out and don’t switch them on again
until I tell you.” Out would go the lights,
and there would be a whispered discussion
in the semi-darkness of the hold, followed
by the arrival on deck of a deputation of
two. Making their way aft to the mate’s
cabin they would have a short, business-
like conversation with him and shuffle
happily off back to the hold. Almost
before they got there the lights would
come on again and peace, harmony and
vice would once more prevail.
“Laetitia”: “Bo’s” resistance to the
hat-salesman (B. 10/12/’52) was prob-
ably based on his subconscious deter-
mination not to relinquish his old cadie,
since it is far easier to assume a new
personality than a new tilei A hat, more
than any other sartorial appurtenance,
reflects the individuality of the wearer.
Even in the Army the Diggers managed
to do things with the hat, khaki, fur-felt,
which resulted in a top-piece in keeping
with the wearer’s individual temperament.
And, surprisingly, a parade of men whose
hats have been broken in is, even from
a Brass Hat viewpoint, a more pleasing
spectacle than a muster of men wearing
lids fresh from the Q-store. And,
though troops other than Australians, for
instance the Gurkhas, sometimes wore
the slouch-hat, the Diggers as a whole,
notwithstanding the foibles of individuals,
wore it in a way that was all their own.
At Milne Bay in 1942 something strange
about a group of soldiers toiling in
shorts, boots and slouch-hats, as were
all others at the time, made me inquire
to what unit they belonged. They were
members of a U.S. airborne A.A. detail
which had been dropped without supplies
and had been re-equipped by the Aus-
tralian Q-staff.
♦i* ❖ ❖
“Curtain Raiser”: At a conference
which threw Melbourne wide open to
the medical profession every department
at Royal Melbourne was asked to put a
show on. One medico had his viruses
and his dead mice cut up into sections;
somebody else had something else in
bottles ; all were requested to put placards
on their doors indicating the nature of
the activities going on inside. The
placard of one who, engaged on statistical
research, didn’t want to be interrupted
read: “Don’t attempt to feed this
animal.”
$ *l*
“Nan”: The other side of the
Christmas spirit. Overheard at lunch-
time, the speaker a middle-aged and dis-
tinctly executive type: “We throw our
staff-party tomorrow afternoon. Makes
Christmas Eve the worst day of the year.
All the little girls get tiddly and all the
little boys get hot hands. Then their
mothers ring me till all hours of the night
at home, asking where they’ve got to. As
if I’d know or care.l’
*X* ♦> ❖
“Toby”: Had an experience very
similar to the apprentice in “The Promise”
by “Standby” (B. 10/12/’52), though the
outcome was vastly different. Was
second-mate of a coaster going into Port
Pirie (S.A.) with a cargo of coal. We got
into the channel just as I’d finished my
cup of morning tea and was leaning over
the bulwark rail, gazing at nothing in
particular. Noticing (hat the overboard
discharge from the engine-room was fall-
ing into the same spot all the time, even
though the engines were going full ahead,
it dawned on me that the ship wasn’t
moving on. I went to the bridge
with as much diffidence as “Standby’s”
apprentice to venture my belief that we
were aground. It was six hours before a
tug and high water got us off.
❖ ❖ *
“Brick E.”: My mate doesn’t play golf,
but I doubt if any sport ever received
a more sincere compliment than his un-
witting testimonial: “We were doing a
repair job at a golf club-house and the
caretaker let us change in the locker-
room of the public section. When we
knocked off we found our clothes had
been ratted! As it happened, we hadn’t
left any money in the pockets, but some
low hound had pinched my socks. You
wouldn’t think that blokes who play golf
would come at that sort of thing, would
you?” I don’t play golf, either, but I
would have made the same mistake that
he did; and now I’m pondering on the
mental outlook of a golfer who would
snazzle a pair of socks. Would he slyly
kick his opponent’s ball into the rough,
tread it into the ground, or pocket it when
the owner wasn’t looking? Would he
“rig” his score and surreptitiously apply
the old marbles adage, “kicks my way”?
Or would he, as a sportsman and a golfer,
take the view that it is one thing to pinch
a workman’s socks but quite another to
do anything dishonorable?
❖ ♦> *l*
“Vingter”: After a horror-filled gaze
at the picture described ds an “art
treasure,” which was the prize in the
raffle for which the office livewire was
hawking tickets, I assured her that while
I would give a bob straightout to her
good cause, on religious principles I must
refrain from participating in any form
of gambling. In due course the raffle was
drawn and the announced winner, pre-
sumably after an inspection of the “art
treasure,” hurriedly , and vehemently
claimed that some mistake had been
made —he had never even had a ticket in
the lottery. When the evidence of his
name on one of the butts failed to move
him to accept the art treasure, the com-
mittee found itself at an impasse. Then
some bright spark remembered that poor
old Bill Smithers who had recently been
transferred to an up-country branch had
left so suddenly that he had missed the
usual presentation. It was a shame that
Bill had been allowed to go away without
a present, but, anyway, he’s got one now.
❖
“B. A. Ker”: Excepting an annual
two-bob’s worth of indulgence early in
November, I have never been able to
make myself interested in horseracing—
an un-Australian outlook that a psycho-
logist could blame on nobody but Bob
Cherry. This fellow, a big, stentorian-
voiced public schoolboy, boxed, played
football and cricket, and generally upheld
the honor of sportsmanship and clean-
living through every page of the
“Magnet,” favorite reading of my forma-
tive years. No doubt his fellow-members
of “The Famous Five” were equally
worthy characters, but in my eyes they
lacked Robert’s iron-fistedness, his robust
steadfastness,' 1 or fell down on Kipling’s
advice about not looking too good or
talking too wise. Alas, in those suscep-
tible days I learned to shrink from my
hero’s scathing indictment of “rotters’
who had a sly smoke and positive
“bounders” (like Snoop and Stott) who
bet on racehorses. Result: I’m a social
misfit and a conversational outcast! Yet
a voice on the radio mentioned Bob
Cherry among other racehorses. Appar-
ently some owner has retained his admira-
tion of Robert, while succeeding in fling-
ing off the Cherry puritanical inhibitions.
But I don’t think Bob would like it.
NATURAL HAZARD
“A London doctor estimates that a normal
kiss hastens death by three minutes and a really
passionate kiss by five, due to increase m the
heart-beat rate.”
Some invite death in many forms:
Speed, by which man is so obsessed
By land and sea and air; the storms
That sweep the crest of Everest;
The eagle’s eyrie robbed: the den
Whence lion may leap; the dehydration
Of desert sands; the denizen
That lurks in cavern deep—and then
There’s osculation!
“The Fatal Kiss!” Some fictioneer
Once coined that phrase to gain effect.
Each kiss is that, it now is clear;
It might be called “ Death’s architect”
Young man, press not the ruby lip:
Abjure the joys of Love’s own nectar.
Recall! If fierce the labial grip
You’ll finish up a sunken ship,
As dead as Hector.
Your heart beats, oh, so madly when
Long kisses with your girl you swap ;
Keep up that sport much longer, then
Your ticker will decide to stop.
But, as for me, I’ll risk it yet ;
And, if the Scythe Bloke is victorious
Who am I, then, to fuss and fret ?
What death. I’d ask without regret.
Could be more glorious?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
SERENADE
// all my dreams were pennies, love,
I’d have a thousand pound.
I’d invest it in a chocolate-wheel
And send it spinning round.
I’d raffle all the prizes, love,
A nd make a thousand more.
I’d put it on the stock-exchange
And rob the blessed poor.
And when I’d made a million, love,
I’d give it all away,
And bring you to the park again,
And this is what I’d say:
If all my dreams were pennies, love.
I’d have a thousand pound.
I’d invest it in a chocolate-wheel
And send it spinning round.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


“The Greatest Name
in the
Battery World"
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD.,44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
EX3.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
Took off for Singapore the other day,
to command the R.A.F. and R.A.A.F.
squadrons in Malaya, Air-Vice-Marshal
F. R. W. Scherger, making him the first
Australian to command squadrons of both
Air Forces at the same time. He won the
A.F.C. for some 2000 hours of test-pilot-
ing, part of it on the first Wirraways, and
added D.S.O. for smart organisation in
setting up his 10th ops. group on Aitape
airstrip four hours after the troops went
in. He returned recently from the post
of Air Attache, Washington.
Appointed Anglican Bishop of North
Queensland, the Rev, I. W- Shevill,
thereby making for himself a brace of
records —at 36, the youngest diocesan
bishop in Australia, and the first Aus-
tralian to get the northern post. Lately
home-secretary of the Australian Board
of Missions, the new bishop hails from
Broken Hill.
“Macnell”: On New Year’s Eve Rear-
Admiral H. A. Showers looked back on
40 continuous years in the R.A.N., a
hefty slice of it spent on salt-water. In
the first class of cadets (1913), he had
for classmates, and, later, some of them
shipmates, a couple of admirals (Collins
and Farncomb) and three captains
Esdaile (cruiser Adelaide’s War II driver),
Getting (who had Canberra when she
got hers) and Armitage (senior-engineer
of Shropshire when Showers commanded
her in the Pacific). A navigation expert,
Showers commanded three cruisers in
War II (having served in submarines in
War I), and towards the ceasefire in his
second scrap became Second Naval
Member, the first Flinders College man to
reach the Naval Board. In 1946 he was
appointed Commodore Superintendent of
Training at Flinders, and thus became
captain of his old college. Now Flag-
Oflicer-in-Charge, Sydney, at 53 he still
retains the nuggety build which made him
one of the Navy’s outstanding footballers.
J. M. Bechervaise is to lead the
Antarctic Research Expedition down to
Heard in the new year. His qualifications
for the job stem from his having led
exploration parties to most remote parts
of Australia, at the same time writing and
photographing for the Australian Geo-
graphical Society. In 1949 he led the
team which was first to scale Federation
Peak, in Tasmania.
What Dr. J. Griffiths Davies doesn’t
know about tropical grasslands it’s not
much use asking the next man about.
Now associate-chief of C.5.1.R.0.’s Divi-
sion of Plant Industry, he gained the
roots of his know-how with the famed
Welsh plant-breeding station, working
with Sir John Stapleton; joining
C.5.1.R.0. as senior-agrostologist in 1938.
He goes now to Brisbane, in charge
of the organisation’s researching into
tropical agricultural problems.
The Honors List:
Baron, Clive Baiilieu, chairman of Dunlop
Rubber and one of the nine selected to form
the Commonwealth Development Corporation.
K.C.M.G., Philip Mcßride, in politics since
1931, Minister for Munitions in the first part
of War 11, and, since 1950, Minister for
Defence. K.8.E., Duncan McLarty, Old Digger,
M.M., and, since 1947, Westralian Premier;
Air-Marshal George Jones, recently retired
Chief of the Air Staff. K. 8., Forman Gregg,
prominent Sydney eye-specialist best-known for
■his discovery of the connection between German
measles in pregnancy and blindness in the
child; Martin Mcllrath, before he died last
month, philanthropist, chairman of the ’Wales
and head of the provisions firm; Horace
Richardson, vice-chairman of the Victorian
Master Drapers’ Association and assistant-head
of the Disposals Commission till 1949; Peter
MacCallum, one-time Dean of the Faculty of
Medicine at Melbourne University; Edmund
Jones, distinguished Adelaide medico, two-war
Digger, Rhodes Scholar and consulting physician
at the Adelaide Children’s Hospital; Herbert
Paine, Judge of the S. Australian Insolvency
Court; Joseph Totterdell, master-builder, State
member for West Perth and Lord Mayor.
It was surely an unusual Odyssey which
landed Melbourne journalist Roberts
Dunstan in Pordenone, north-east Italy,
at Christmas. In 1941 Dunstan had a leg
shot off at Tobruk and a couple of
months ago he set out to find out what
kind of a man was the Italian artillerist
who changed the course of his life and
turned him into a writer. He found him
in Constantino Pante, and on Christmas
Day the whole of Pordenone, ex-service-
men and townsfolk, converged on Panic's
dwelling to celebrate the occasion, Pante
providing the vino. Dunstan is writing a
book called My Leg and Strong Wrists,
and the last few pages will be devoted to
his visit to Italy.
Jeff Noseda, appointed handicapper to
Sydney Turf Club, following the resigna-
tion of Harry Frank, had been assistant
S.T.C. secretary for about four years.
Before that he was secretary of N.S.W.
Rugby Union from 1925 till 1946, with
a turn in the A.I.F. from 1940 till 1945
(New Guinea and South Pacific). Jeff
was secretary to manager A. J. Tancred
of the Australian Rugby Union team —
Home and Countries tour of England,
France, Canada and U.S.A.- —in 1947-48.
He is a member of Moore Park Golf
Club and Coogee bowls and surf-clubs.
Presented herewith, appropriately in
black-and-white, Harry Cortis-Jones has
coached and cheered-on the black-and-
white colors of Sydney’s Newington
College for 56 continuous years. Though,
of course, considering he has taught
geography, economics, English, geology,
chemistry, history, maths and French
(mostly to Leaving classes, and, at one
time, teaching six subjects), his coaching
has not been confined wholly to playing-
fields. Yet his record there is impressive.
Old Newingtonians will recall the famous
football-team of 1900 —coached by
“Fizz,” as he is respectfully known to
thousands. The second cricket-team was
in his hands for 46 years ; athletics for
over 20. Kindly, gentle, yet with the
incisiveness of the long-trained teacher in
his voice, Cortis-Jones took out his B.A.
degree from Sydney University in 1897,
then went to Newington, so that he has
“FIZZ,” of Newington
been teaching there since before the Boer
War. And if that’s not a record, it
deserves to be. Among the nippers he’s
blackboarded he numbers Dr. lan Clunies
Ross, Professor Priestley of Sydney Uni-
versity, General Iven Mackay, Halse
Rogers, J., and Sir Carleton Kemp-Alien,
now Warden of Rhodes House, Oxford.
Cortis-Jones, who married his Head’s
daughter, was senior science-master when
he retired the other day. Now 77, he
will keep his hand in with a bit of
coaching.
Australia’s latest Lord:
Clive Baiilieu, created a K.B.E. in 1938, will
establish a hereditary peerage. A baron m tn
Flew Year’s honors-list, Baiilieu follows Forrest
(baron) and Bruce (viscount) and others less
well-known as an Australian-born peer, bu
he has three sons and one daughter, whereas
Forrest had no children, nor has Bruce.
Baiilieu has served as the representative ot tne
British Government, regardless of party, tor
close on 20 years, on economic and industrial
committees, and did great work during World
War II in the United States as buyer ot raw
materials for the British Government. Zinc
Corporation, Dunlop Rubber and E., S. and A.
Bank are among his many Australian interests ;
the Midland Bank and Trinidad Leaseholds
among his others. He was a “natural” to be
picked as a director of the proposed Common-
wealth Development Corporation. Born in
Melbourne in 1889 (a son of auctioneer W. L.
Baiilieu, who became financially interested m
Broken Hill, built Collins House, and helped,
with Herbert Hoover, to form the Zinc Cor-
poration), Baiilieu went to school in Melbourne,
then to Oxford (he was in the 1913 eight),
and to the Inner Temple in 1914. He joined
the A.1.F., later the R.A.F., and served m
Europe during 1915-18. He married in England
during World War I, and lives in Surrey.
Made his final bow to the Speaker,
after 40 years of Westralian politics, E.
Needham, a dapper little Lancashireman
who started at 12 in a Clyde shipyard,
and came to Westralia in 1901. His first
job in this country was boilermaker’s
assistant in the Fremantle railway-work-
shops. Three years later he was repre-
senting Fremantle in the Assembly as
a follower of the Daglish Government,
the first Labor Government in the
State. He rose to be Leader of the
Opposition in the Senate, and was back
in the Assembly in 1933, member for
Perth. Known for his sincerity and good
humor.
Perth’s new Anglican archdeacon,
Canon R. E. Freeth, has spent about as
much time teaching as preaching. A
Dublin man, graduate of Cambridge, he
was ordained in England and went out
to Melanesia as a missionary in 1909.
After that he shipped to Australia, to
teach at The King’s, Parramatta, St.
Andrew’s Choir School, Sydney, and
Shore, North Sydney. He went to W.A.,
head of Guildford Grammar, in 1928,
and remained there 21 years. Since
1941, he has been a canon of
St. George’s Cathedral, Perth. Main
interests of the flesh, rowing and fencing.
There’s nothing of the long-haired
musician about Frank Calloway, the New
Zealand violinist and pianist lately
appointed reader in music at the Uni-
versity of Westralia. Wear-
ing, rather, the alert and
genial manner of a business
executive, he brings to the
job a sheaf of diplomas and
a distinguished record of
successes as a teacher and
conductor of both choral
and orchestral music. Since
he graduated from Otago
University he has won
prizes for composition,
studied in Britain and the
U.S. (part of the time under
a Carnegie award), and an-
nexed diplomas from the
Royal Academy and Royal
College of Music and a Fel-
lowship of Trinity College,
London. Back in the Fern-
land in 1942, he was placed
in charge of music at King
Edward College, Dunedin,
and appointed part-time lec-
turer at his old university.
For four years he organised
music in the Dominion’s
adult-education schools; his
outstanding success has been
the training of a massed
choir of over 1000 students in
Dunedin.
Professor George Paton, Vice-
Chancellor of Melbourne University,
takes on the general-secretaryship of the
Australian Rhodes Scholarship Trust. A
noted law-teacher (one-time Gray’s Inn
barrister, holder of the Chair of Juris-
prudence and Dean of the Faculty of
Law), and himself a Rhodes Scholar, he
follows Sir John Behan, who has been
secretary of the trust since 1922, and
who was, in 1904, Victoria’s first R.S.
Gone to his reward, Monsignor
Hartigan, the genial, silver-haired, study-
stooped giant who, as inseparable from
his books as from (as portrayed by Heth)
his cigarette-holder, wrote Around the
Boree Log, that long- and well-loved col-
lection of bush-verse. Born at Yass,
parish-priest at Narrandera for 27 years,
he was once—in the Diocese of Goulburn
—an inspector of schools, and was fond
of recalling, on the frequent occasions he
met Bulletin men, that he had been
more than once “insulted! in the
Answers to Correspondents as had been,
O’BRIEN, of the Boree-log
more than once, most of the Bulletin
men. For some years before the end
chaplain of that lovely, weathered pile
of sandstone. Rose Bay Convent, the
kindly old chap divided his time between
the convent’s fine set of paintings, his
book-crammed study and identifying
from his windows every ship that sailed
on the harbor below. He got his
pseudonym “John O’Brien” from watch-
ing a character of that name who used
to sell adulterated milk in a country town.
“Adulterated milk,” I thought; “thats
me. So John O’Brien it was.” 'pie nib-
name was appended to a recent history of
Sydney’s Darlinghurst parish. Its owner
was 73 at the end.
New knight Colin Sinclair becomes
president of the ’Wales a few days
after his 76th birthday. In his second
term as C.P. member for Namoi Sinclair
went into the N.S.W. Ministry, with the
Lands portfolio ; earlier he went from The
Armidale School to Sydney University,
took his B.A. there, and, articled to the
Minter Simpson firm, his LL.B. But he
preferred the land to the law, and with his
brothers took on the Waterloo pastoral
property in the Glen Innes district. Presi-
dent of the R.A.S. for the past 10 years,
he had much to do with the formation
of the Board of Cricket Control, and
was its secretary for some years.
Into the Silence:
At 80, in Melbourne, J. M. B. Connor, one-
time property-owner in Victoria’s Western
District and, later, the State’s Superintendent
of Agriculture. In 1910 he took his know-how
to Westralia, Agricultural Commissioner for
the south-west, and there introduced subter-
ranean-clover. The start of the area’s dairying
industry is accepted as his effort. He returned
to Melbourne after War I to build up a large
stock- and station-agency.
In Melbourne, Matron C. L. Ross, 0.8. E.,
R.R.C., one of the senior nurses who went
with the first contingent of the A.I.F. in
December, 1914, in the hospital-ship Kyarra.
She served in Egypt and France, and was later
in charge of the Australian section of Harefield
and Dartford Hospitals in England.
At 60, in Melbourne, Henry Laussen, for the
past nine years Deputy-Commissioner of Re-
patriation for Victoria. With the department
since he returned, in 1919, from active service
with 5 Squadron, A.F.C., he had been deputy-
commissioner in Tasmania, S. Australia and
Queensland. Out of office he had worked
particularly hard for Digger welfare organisa-
tions in Melbourne.
In Hobart, at 81, George Oliver Smith,
8.M.E., B.Sc., A.M.1.C.E., formerly assayer,
metallurgist, geologist, mine-manager, Govern-
ment analyst and, for several years prior to his
retirement a few years ago, City Engineer,
Hobart City Council. When the contractor for
the Ridgeway Reservoir (water-supply for
Hobart) found that he was unable to complete
his contract, Smith took on the job—and com-
pleted it.


V ,
(f S THE FIRjST TIME 6EEN 6EATEN
e>y South Africa in forty dears’, anp i
tell. you they RE going to pick, the same
re A|\A AGAIN FOR THE- THIRP TEST/
NATIONAL CATASTROPHE


ABORIGNALITIES
“Lemuel G.’’: Once encountered, on
the road from Inverell to Glen Innes
(N.S.W.) a travelling circus, the some-
what tawdry cavalcade being headed by
a weary-looking gentleman on the neck
of an elephant sadly in need of dusting.
At the moment of our meeting the
pachyderm was resolutely declining to set
foot on a small bridge, a trifle of massive
beams and huge logs designed to carry
wool wagons, but apparently unsafe for
lone elephants in a strange land. Though
his rider smote him sorely with an iron
hook, he did nothing but shuffle from side
to side, uttering squeaks of protest
audible at a mile, staring at the bridge
with eyes filled with trepidation and
horror at the thought of venturing on a
structure so flimsy. Just as it seemed that
a deadlock had been reached, there came
from the centre of the procession a small
boy riding a midget pony, 10-hands tall at
the most, to walk quietly and confidently
across. The massive lord of the jungle
was deeply impressed. It was now quite
obvious that the bridge was not unsafe ;
on the contrary, it was deserving of the
utmost confidence, for if it would bear
one animal, so would it support another.
He was almost jaunty as he tripped across
—and, at the same time, completely shat-
tered my belief in his race’s storied
sagacity. In fact, I’m ready to believe
that he was not only damn’ silly, but had
a defective memory as well.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: The dilemma into which
the British Government has got itself
in Africa over the
ritual-murder busi-
ness is similar to that
which harassed the
Dutch over the burn-
ing of widows in
Bali. In the African
case a chief com-
plained that only per-
sons of no import-
ance were to be sacri-
ficed at his funeral,
so his loyal retainers
clubbed a person of
great importance.
They were duly tried
and sentenced to
death, and the Gov-
ernment was severely
criticised for allow-
ing the sentence and
the Governor was
ordered to suspend
it. But what is a
civilised Govern-
ment to do? The
murderers don’t
know why they are
hanged. They think
what they did was
right and proper. If
they were not hanged
the witch - doctor
would go up in pub-
lic estimation and
there would be more
ritual murders. If
they were hanged the
witch-doctor business
would get a blow,
but the Governor
would have hanged
men who, from their own viewpoint, were
innocent of any crime whatever, I was
in Java at a time when 20 widows of a
defunct native rajah were to be burnt so
that he would have company and the
right attention in the next world, and
when the Dutch sent a cruiser to stop the
suttee the potential victims all lit out for
the woods, returning to be burned when
the cruiser had departed. If they had
allowed themselves to be rescued from
the funeral pyre they would have been
regarded, and would have regarded them-
selves, as poor fishes. What is any Gov-
ernment to do in such a situation?
* * * *
“A.M.N.”: The son of a grazier seek-
ing political honors was supported at the
preselection ballot by a neighbor who
several times stressed that the applicant
was a suitable representative, as his people
had “made their money off the sheep’s
back.” At each reference to the sheep’s
back a voice interrupted “And the head! ”
The story behind it was that the
aspirant’s grandmother always sought the
discarded head of the killers, cut the wool
off with a pair of scissors and stored it to
go in with the clip,
♦ ♦ * *
“8.A.K.”: Thirsty Bert looked as if
he’d just fought 20 rounds with a heli-
copter. “That’s what a man gets for
drinkin’ lemon-squash,” he complained
bitterly, glaring at me out of his un-
damaged eye. “Been drinkin’ beer all me
life and never been chucked out of a
pub. I have a taste —just one —o’ that
other stuff, and look what happens!”
The sad story poured forth: “I got some
sort of skin infection, went to the quack’s
and he gave me some sort of injection.
‘You must refrain from alcohol during
this treatment,’ he says. Of course,
they all say that, but how could one hurt
y’? Gripes, it did! I thought I was
going to die. Next day the quack nearly
had a fit. ‘Alcohol mixed with this could
be fatal! ’he hollers. ‘Not another drop! ’
Goin’ home I get thirsty. There’s nothin’
for it but lemon-squash, so I goes in,
orders a bottle, puts it to me mouth and
tries it. It ain’t so ’orrible. ‘All right,’
I says to the barmaid, ‘you can pour us
a jug o’ that.’ ‘What?’ she snaps. ‘Pour
it into a glass after you’ve been slobber-
ing all over the bottle!’ Well, no
peroxide-blonde was goin’ to say that to
me, even if she did mistake me for a
wowser. I swished that lemon-squash
all over her. The publican swung at me
and I pelted the bottle at him. I finished
up fightin’ about eight of ’em, but they
finished up by skiddin’ me along the
footpath on me face. Don’t talk to me
about lemon-squash!”
* * ♦ *
“Shamuseen”: Every so often some
peregrinating southern Pressman repeats
the canard of the Torres Strait’s natives
scorn of the shark hazard which con-
stantly besets the shelling game in the
“You re suffering from susceptibility to
corset advertising on the radio."
north and north-west. On sighting the
shark the native diver will quickly vacate
the most lucrative shell-patch by a retreat
which is swift and according to planned
strategy. The reality of the fear is
evidenced by the superstitious awe with
which he regards a species of giant sea-
louse, about an inch long, and which is
often found adhering to the shark. He
calls this repugnant-looking beastie the
“epi baidem,” or shark’s wife, and should
he find a detached specimen in shallow
water he will solicitously carry it out to
the deeps and carefully release it to
facilitate a renewal of its contact with the
shark. His motive in so doing is the fear
that, should the sea-louse suffer any injury
through the diver’s neglect or malice, a
fierce vengeance by the shark will be
enacted before the drift is finished.
* * * ♦
“Nakhoda”; Strange the different kinds
of skill that people have. One man can
face a mad bull but not an angry wife;
"My husband hates publicity—but you may take ME if you like."
another can handle snakes but may be
terrified of the city traffic. A cove in my
district has an uncanny ability with bush-
fires. He can stand heat that would fry
another person and will quietly walk
towards a bushfire, studying it. Most
people run away and get caught. He
walks straight at it and sees a track
through. During recent fires a party
was trapped by a change of wind and
started to panic. He told them to follow
him, and walked towards the fire. After
a while he saw a track and got the whole
crowd through the blazing furnace.
* * * ♦
“Bass”: They’re striking some rich
small pockets around Ora Banda (W.A.),
and the dailies find the returns worth
reporting. There’s nothing unusual about
them. That district is noted for just such
pockets of contact gold—deposited
where a bar, often a jasper, cuts across
a quartz reef. Where the two bars con-
tact you’ll often find lumps of almost pure
gold, and the explanation is simple.
When the gold-bearing quartz was poured
out to fill up a fault or a valley, it was
stopped by the solid jasper-bar and the
gold content, being weightier, flowed on
to the lowest spot. Much of the romance
of gold-seeking centres around contact
gold. Take the Oversight mine. The
original finders took a fortune out of
it and thought they’d got the lot. Later,
after it had been abandoned for some
time, a prospector who thought it was
worth looking at was being lowered down
the shaft when the rope jammed on the
windlass. While he waited for his mate
to free the rope he tapped the face of
the shaft in front of him and uncovered
another rich pocket. So two more men
took a fortune from the mine and thought
they'd got the lot. Years later another
crowd struck it again on the same
lease. That’s contact gold for you,
and there’s still enough of it around for
a man who’s broke one day to be lucky,
and wealthy, the next.
* * ♦ *
“Ingel Barr”: I recollect an occasion
when a crow erred badly. Father, two
other men, even mother, had tried for
weeks to get a shot at one that had been
hanging about. Kelly, however, wise to
every subterfuge, kept safely out of range.
One day I begged for a try. Rather
doubtfully, but on the principle of try
anything once, an old single-barrelled
16-gauge was entrusted to me. In the
black shrewd-head’s philosophy 11-year-
old boys didn’t carry real guns, so from
his perch in an old tallowwood ha
loudly voiced his derision as he watched
me cross the paddock to within less than
40yds. of him, steady the barrel against
a tall stump and, with beating heart, take
aim. Then disillusion and death reached
Kelly together. And a youngster rubbed
a bruised shoulder with complete satis-
faction.
* * * *
“Swelpme”: A dog that somehow
trapped itself in a 12in. drain under a
street in Redfern (Sydney), and was
rescued 24 hours later, survived the ordeal
because it was very old. Such, according
to my newspaper, is the opinion of canine
experts ; a younger dog, they claim, would
have died from fear and exhaustion as it
struggled to get out. Who am Ito argue
with experts? But I ha’ me doots. Now,
if they had said horses! I once saw a
young fellow accidentally ride a three-
year-old, mettlesome mare into a thicket
of nettles in Burragorang Valley (N.S.W.).
At the first sting the mount seemed to
panic. The rider tried to control her.
It was futile. Screaming, she reared,
tried to bolt, and finally threw herself —
in the very heart of the clump. Within
two minutes she was dead. The nettles
did not kill her, that was a certainty;
neither was an animal so young and
spirited likely to have a heart or any
other organic complaint, I’m inclined to
believe the old chap who told the dazedly
incredulous youth: “It’s liable to happen
to any young thing with a bit o’ ‘blood’
in it —they’re too sensitive and high-
strung. If she’d been just an ordinary
old moke she would’ve propped and
pelted you into the nettles as soon as they
stung her, and made no more fuss about
it.”
* * * $
“Ohinemuri”: Stretcher was enter-
taining the lads at the local with some of
his experience up in the Gulf country.
Asked for his toughest “go” he said:
“I’m ridin’ a flash colt one time when
he puts his foot in a hole. When I come
to after the toss I’m still a bit stunned, got
two broken wrists, and the colt’s taken to
his scrapers. A big storm comes up and
I makes for a” shanty I sights in the
distance. I pushes the door to after me,
and when me eyes get used to the light I
see about half-a-dozen dirty big taipans
in the corner. I go to get out the door,
btit me hands is gone and I can’t open
her with me teeth. I jumps up on the
table and them taipans start cornin’ at
me. It’s the breedin’ season an’ they’re
dead cranky. But I’m wearin’ good stout
boots an’ leggin’s, an’ as the taipes rear
up at me I just boots ’em off. I’m holdin’
me own with ’em all right, but am dead
worried as night’s cornin’ on an’ I know
they’ll get me in the dark.” “How did it
finish, mate?” someone asked. “Look,”
said Stretcher, “you’d better come along
again tomorrow night. I ain’t too sure
meself yet how it’s goin’ to finish.”
* * ♦ ♦
CURLEW IN THE NIGHT
Pious birds in black and white
And snowy cockatoo
Listen to the shrieking of
The poor crazed curlew
Following a tortured theme
Of hopelessness and pain
On a wild crescendo to
The moon and back again.
Good birds, together sing
In the quiet noon,
Shun the spotted heathen
And the suicidal moon.
n.s.w. Olga Schlunkb,
THE WRECK OF THE ETHEL,
LOW TIDE
Between waves there is only the hiss of the
undertow,
the shrillness of whistling eagles, the cries of
the gulls,
and once a month or so the sound of voices
and of a stone scratching on forty years of
rust
a name the next tide’s violence will erase.
Sluggish and silent each wave rolls in,
poises, while a green light from the sun shines
through,
then crashes down, hundreds of tons of sound,
sucks back in a hiss of foam, is gone,
and in its place falls down a new green wall.
And up on the sand the hull rusts slowly,
rudder twisted, deck and masts and shrouds
all gone,
forecastle empty of shanties, all rigging rotted,
nothing loose left to clank or rattle or flap,
waiting to withstand the crash of the coming
tide.
Better thus, lying in state on yellow sand,
with the tall cliffs for mutes and gulls for
mourning
(corpse of an age of gracefulness and sweat),
than a coal-hulk or lighter, dirty and spat upon,
floating in the scummy backwater of a busy port.
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.


“Laetitia”: Mauru Lifu was the native
heroine of the greatest of all disasters
to strike the shelling-fleets of Torres
Straits. This was the terrible cyclone
which decimated the fleet in 1904. During
the blow Mauru, then a lissom belle of
16, supported two white men in a 24-hour
swim through a seething maelstrom, and
got them safely to shore. Her exploit
is recognised in the tombstone erected
to her in the Thursday Island cemetery
by the Royal Lifesaving Society. In the
years between the Binghi belle had
assumed the proportions of a woman
mountain, and on her leaving Damley
Island in a patrol lugger, which was to
take her on her last journey to the Torres
Straits Hospital on Thursday Island,
Mauru had to be lifted aboard by block-
and-tackle.
♦ * * ♦
“5.4 E.”; For the list of tempera-
mental cooks let me nominate a once-
Reverend, a graduate of Edinburgh Uni-
versity, who, following a Bacchic down-
fall, drifted to North Queensland,
where he became a station-hand and,
when I met him, a self-professed cook in
a droving outfit. Tall, spare, hawknosed,
his beard always neatly trimmed, his
speech cultured and polished, he had a
manner grave yet gracious. The evening
he stood barefoot on a hot coal gave us a
wonderful demonstration of the value of
a University education to a man who
feels called upon to say a few words but
that was mere inarticulate stammering
compared to a later performance. He had
labored long over the concocting of a
“Won't go, eh? Tried shaking it?”
highly superior plum-duff, as a final touch
bringing it with syrup to a rich shade of
gold. When we rode into camp we found
it proudly on display on the tailboard
of the wagonette. Momentarily we gaped,
then “Hell!” quoth Curly. “The flamin’
full-moon!” Angus flinched as though
stabbed ; the fiery blood of Caledonia
boiled. ’ Edinburgh would have been
proud of her son that evening. He cursed
Curly—and us all—with oaths theological,
physiological, and psychological; dwelt
at length on the many bars-sinister in
our ancestries, hurled the duff into the
fire and retired to his swag to read Virgil
in the original.
# * *
“Mingari” - I’ve heard that dogs roll
in decomposing carcasses in order to
advertise to their friends that they have
such great stores of food they can afford
to let it rot. Well, it was midsummer,
and the dam on the New England
(N.S.W.) stock-route where we stopped
for dinner was embellished by a couple
of sheep that were very dead indeed. By
the time our three mongs had finished
anointing themselves any strange cur they
encountered would have gone into a
decline out of sheer envy —they were
really fruity! That evening the grand-
father of all thunderstorms hit us just as
we got the sheep into the break. There
wasn’t a chance of pitching the tent, so
we dragged it over the cart and huddled
underneath, chewing cold salt-meat and
damper and whacking our heads on the
axle when we moved, floundering out
into the rain and mud at intervals to
make sure the sheep were still there. And,
no doubt imagining that the pleasure of
their company would ameliorate our
sufferings, those wretched tripehounds
insisted on coming in to snuggle up to us.
Well, one wet dog smells bad enough ;
three, in a confined space, are powerful
indeed. Superimpose on that rich
fragrance the rare odor of thoroughly-
deceased jumbuck and you’ve got a
stench to end all stenches. But, to get
the full effect, it’s essential to be sitting
in wet clothes in Sin, of mud with a
stream of water running down the back
of your neck all night. Then you can
really feel you’re living a Man’s Life
in a’ Man’s Country—if that’s any con-
solation.
* * * *
“Pete’s”; The new hand managed
to get the cow in the bail, but the leg-rope
provided a problem; finally he put it
on the wrong leg. The cow was kicking
furiously when the boss appeared and
explained what was wrong. “Well,”
exclaimed the newchum, “fancy that!
I put the rope on that leg because I
reckoned I could keep an eye on the one
next to me.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: A chap who runs a
tourist settlement at Lancelin, nearly 100
miles north of Fremantle, has found what
looks like part of an old sailing-ship. He
thinks it might be a remnant of the
Gilt Dragon, a Dutch ship that went
aground on that coast in 1656, and from
which a party reached shore with a case
or two of golden guilders. Although
some of the party later reached Batavia
in a long-boat, and sent out search-
parties, no trace was found of the wreck
or of the survivors. Several attempts to
find the wreck have been made over the
last 50 years, and one reason for the
repeated failures to find even a spar may
be that the searchers have been looking
along high-water mark. This latest find
is about half a mile inland, and that ties
up with the generally-accepted theory of
the changes that are occurring along the
coast. It seems there’s a slight but steady
readjustment taking place, by which the
land is being raised by an amount which
becomes appreciable over the centuries,
In fact, it’s thought that the sea may
have receded about two miles since the
Gilt Dragon came ashore,
* * * *
“Sparkie”: A few years ago a ship’s
f ireman a pproached the chief engineer on
an Australian coastwise ship and, visibly
ag it a ted, asked to be paid off. He was
wearing a stylish felt hat, but was clad
otherwise in working rig—dungarees,
singlet and inevitable sweatrag. “What’s
up, Jock?” the Chief asked, puzzled,
“Thought the ship suited you. And what s
the idea of wearing your good hat?
You’ll ruin it in the stokehold.” “No,
Chief. I won’t sail in her any more,”
Jock replied. “Look what some
adjectival blanker done to me while I
was asleep last night!” He whipped
off his hat, displaying a knobby skull
cropped almost to the skin, with only
a neat fringe remaining as testimony to
the former luxuriant growth. Only clue
to the nameless, soft-stepping perpetrator
was a scrap of paper worded dramatically,
“The Phantom Barber Strikes Again!”
From time to time others were tonsured to
some purpose and in varied designs, some-
“Of course you can have a loan of it —if you'll promise to
forget to return it.”
times in the shape of a cross, sometimes
a V. He chose his clients with care,
selecting only those who had wined
heavily and consequently were insensible
to his ministrations. He masked his
identity well, and although his scissors
no longer snip by night, he occupies a
prominent place in the rich fields of coast-
wise legend.
* * * ♦
“Gulliver”: I’ve seen the gold fever
blaze up in the faded eyes of old-timers
who drifted into station-work after they’d
failed on the Nullagine and Pilbara and
Marble Bar and Bangemall; it seemed
that not even a lifetime of hard slogging
and bitter disappointment could disillu-
sion them. Every one of them swore
there was more gold in the West than
had ever been taken out. Most of them
knew positively of “a wonderful patch
of country” at the back of some far-off
mountain range, and one day, when they
could get together the money for the
string of camels and the tucker and gear,
they’d be off to peg it and sit back for
the little that was left of their lives. But
none that I knew ever started out. It
was always the old story of a couple of
years’ hard work, a good big cheque and
“a couple of drinks before I start to get
the gear together”—and that was the end
of that. They’d be broke and looking
for a job again a fortnight later. Well,
maybe it was better that way. At least
they had a fortnight’s spree to look back
on, and there was a hospital handy when
they got the “horrors”—which seems to
me a whole lot better than getting the
same “horrors” as the result of having
nothing to drink, and dying alone in the
shade of a rock in some desolate gorge
a couple of hundred miles from any-
where.
♦ • * •
“Laetitia”: The ban on gambling
among Papuan and N.G. natives recalls a
similar interdict by Torres Straits official-
dom some 20 years ago on the playing of
marbles. The ban, however, was im-
posed not to safeguard moral principles,
but in the interest of the territory’s
economy, for whole village populations,
from pot-bellied piccaninnies to dotards,
began tourneys which commenced at day-
light and continued under coconut-leaf
torches far into the night. Gardens went
untended by the womenfolk, while the
bucks who normally worked in the
m.-0.-p. fleets remained ashore playing
big- and little-ring. The rigidly-policed
ban eventually killed the v craze, but
officialdom shortly afterwards had more
anxious moments born of the fear that
the yoyo craze, which the Mexican Gov-
ernment was coincidentally outlawing as
a menace to the morale of its troops,
might spread. The straits, however, were
mercilessly spared the second visitation.
“Teraki”: Old Tony, a little Manila-
man who had a fencing contract in
Westralia’s nor’-west, took to wile
a youthful and not unhandsome lady
of mixed white and Afghan parentage,
already the mother of a flaxen-hatred
tot from whose white-man father 1 o y
received a dowry sufficient to set him up
with a horse and cart, camp,
and fencing-gear. A respectable time
later, the lady presented him with
a half-sister for the little blonde a
brown-haired, mixture o.
white, Afghan and Filipino, but un-
mistakably his own. Tony was very
happy. Time passed. The fence grew,
taking him each day further from the
camp. Then another little pair of
feet arrived, and so did a little
pair of eyes—brown, true enough,
but ominously slanted as no Filipino’s
had ever been and set in a
yellow creamy skin that obviously derived
from far Cathay. Naturally, Tony in-
quired as to the cause of the pheno-
menon ; the lady hinted delicately at the
possibility of some long-ago mesalliance
in Manila, on the paternal side. With
two causes for anger, Tony remembered,
at a significant date, the presence of the
mustering-camp where he was working.
He remembered Sammy, the Chinese
stockman. He reached for the Winchester
.32, and remembered, too, the presence
of Jimmy, the Chinese cook —and put
the gun down again. To shoot one would
be to vindicate his honor, certainly ; to
know which to shoot was the problem ;
and to shoot both would be to admit that
his escutcheon was besmirched indeed.
* * * *
“Herbert Dawson”: Ronnie is quite
an effective rider and yard-hand, but,
having recently seen a film of a Mexican
bullfight, he was all enthusiasm for the
Spanish way of handling a charging beast.
While the lads were yelling and jamming
a mob up from the receiving-yard into
the “lane,” a big touchy micky charged
back and chased one of them up the
fence. “Don’t run away from him,” said
Ronnie. “It’s easy to sidestep him like
those Mex. fighters do,” and with an old
sugar-bag in his hand he went down
the yard to meet the cleanskin. Assum-
ing as well as he could the graceful stance
and action of the professional bull-
fighter, he waved the bag- in front of the
micky in a playful manner, inviting him
to “come on.” The invitation was
accepted, but in no playful manner.
Instead of the graceful* languid side-sway
of the body and the lifting of the cape
over the horns, as the film depicts it,
Ronnie made the error of reversing the
action. The bag swayed out’of the line
of attack, and the micky’s enthusiastic
“follow-through” took Ronnie squarely
in the bread-basket. It took three of the
onlookers to save the “matador” from
the “toro,” but they were content to do
it Australian style.
THE INTRUDERS
fSambar-deer were introduced into Australia
1 from India about 1870.]
Up from the gully deep and dank,
Under the wattle and tea-tree scrub,
A narrow deer-path climbs the bank
To where the sambar b'rowse and rub:
A hidden flat in the stunted gums,
Where the wallaby feed in the grass
And lift their heads in the dawn and dusk
When the strange wild sambar pass—
For eight decades in the eucalypt bush
Have never dispelled the fear
Of those that tread the wallaby-pads
Leaving the mark of the deer.
In the soft grey mist of the morning
They pass from the springing crops,
Over the dew-pearled fence-line
hlor loosen the swinging drops;
Threading back to the brackened gully
Beyond the deserted mill,
Disturbing the loitering wombat
Under the brow of the hill—
For eight decades in the eucalypt bush
Have never dispelled the fear
Of those that cross the wombat-runs
Leaving the mark of the deer.
VICTORIA.
ARTHUR BENTLEY


When
huy m lisk „
LOOK FOR
THE "WORD
“OLD”
OLD
NMUitm ASftNTR
tUt&OUNWC. AUSTRALIA*-'
R.U COHICNI3f.IAi(jt. 6 rtuio OZ$
The word “OLD” I
on the label is your I
legal guarantee of
a pure, true whisky
that is mellowed to
perfection by at
least 5 YEARS
AGEING IN OAK
CASKS.
When whisky is
bottled under Aus-
tralian Customs
and Excise super-
vision, it can only
be labelled “OLD” if it has matured at least 5 years
before bottling nearly three limes the age at which
many whiskies are sold. Remember, without age, a whisky
cannot be mellow. Corio Special OLD Whisky possesses
all the outstanding virtues that can possibly be brought
about by the skilful blending of old whiskies.
Insist on the whisky of outstanding merit
Corio Special
OLD WHISKY
C+4/I6
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
O. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
PAY
YOUR ACCOUNTS
THE
MODERN WAY
VA
«»-
A Commonwealth Bank Cheque
Account provides you with a safe,
speedy and convenient method of
paying accounts. No need to go
from place to place paying bills in
person, when you can so easily pay
by cheque.
Paying by cheque has other
advantages. It adds to your pres-
tige, shows clearly what you have
spent and where, and gives evi-
dence of payment in case of lost
receipts.
A Commonwealth Bank Cheque
Account is easy to open, simple to
use. Open one to-day. Cheque
Account facilities and complete
trading bank services are available
at all Branches.
COMMONWEALTH BANK
“THE BANK YOU OWN”
All Branches provide
every trading bank service.
CGB29-82
Business. Rollery. Ete.
THE "EUTHANASIA" OF THE INVESTOR
The late John Tvlaynard
Keynes, who was hailed in many
quarters as one of the greatest
economists of all time, expressed
the opinion that speculators
might do no harm as bubbles in
a steady stream of enterprise,
but that the position became
serious when enterprise became
the bubble of speculation. “When
the capital development of a
country becomes a by-product of
the activities of a casino, the job
is likely to be ill-done,” was the
opinion of this eminent econo-
mist.
With this remark most people
will agree. But Keynes went on
to argue "that the control of in-
vestment in capital assets could
not safely be left to private enter-
prise, He believed that the
State, which he considered to be
in a better position than pri-
vate enterprise to calculate long-
run needs in terms of general
social advantage, should assume
greater responsibility for directly
organising investment. He be-
lieved in the “socialisation of
investment.” But at that time
he had never heard of the Mc-
Girr or Cahill Governments in
New South Wales, or of Dr.
Evatt’s “financial policy.”
Keynes envisaged the elimina-
tion of income from the mere
ownership of property, and re-
garded it as a “minor revolu-
tion” in the structure of the tra-
ditional private-enterprise sys-
tem. He considered that this
“euthanasia of the rentier”
could be achieved peacefully
and gradually as a result of the
accumulation of so much in the
way of wealth-producing assets
that capital would always be
abundant.
But even Keynes’s best friends
admit that, having propounded
his theory of socialisation of
investment, he failed to develop
it or elaborate it in any practical
way. How investment could be
socialised while management re-
mained in private hands he did
not explain. He was not him-
self happy about the results of
what might be termed “socialised
spending” in Britain and the
United States during the depres-
sion of the 1930’5. The New
Deal, in regard to which he was
to some extent President Roose-
velt’s adviser, he criticised be-
cause of the lack of planning be-
hind U.S. public-works policy.
Like Australian depression mea-
sures, it was based on emerg-
ency ideas of “relief work.” The
U.S.A. was still floundering
along with a haphazard spend-
ing policy when World War H
broke out, and again altered the
course of its economic career.
Ever since 1939 munitions expen-
diture, lend-lease, the European
Recovery Programme and cold-
war preparations have had a
stimulating effect on the U.S.
economy that has disguised the
normal forces at work in that
country’s industrial make-up.
In Keynes’s “socialisation-of-
investment” theory, as in most
of his theories, the question is
very soon raised as to how much
can be achieved without (a) con-
tinuous inflation, and ( b ) a
completely planned Socialist
economy. Also how much can
be achieved anyway.
Keynes reached his economic
maturity during the period fol-
lowing the end of World War I
up to the beginning of World
War 11. After the return
to the gold standard by Britain
in 1925 it was mostly a period
when money was short and
goods comparatively plentiful.
Keynes did not live at a time
when the “economics of scarcity”
prevailed (except during war-
time). He had never seen a
Socialist Government at work in
England. He had not seen the
rise of Communist strength in
the -trade-union movement, and
the extent to which such a trai-
torous influence directed the ad-
ministration of trade-union-
dominated Governments. He
had not seen the Welfare State
in practice in any British
country.
Keynes’s practical work was
mostly of a short-term nature.
He dealt with crises as they
occurred. And it was in this
regard that his best work was
done.
In his long-term proposals
there seems to be too much that
is really in the nature of short-
term remedies. Drastic drugs
and restriction on movement
may be the correct treatment for
a patient who has become ill
but who has a reserve of strength
to draw upon. The treatment
may be wrong and unnatural
during convalescence or full
health. In short, what may be
good and acceptable treatment
during the emergency of war or
financial calamity may be
nationally ruinous if persisted in
during a period when a country
should be striving to regain
vigorous, hardy economic health.
There seems to be little doubt
that something resembling
Keynes’s short-term policies have
been politically resorted to in
many cases as a long-term diet.
And whatever merit his policies
have had has been largely cor-
rupted at the hands of
The thing that politicians so love
about Keynes’s economic doc-
trine is that he encouraged
State “planning,” the spending
of money by the State, and the
taking or creation of money by
the State. Their interpretation
of Keynes’s methods may be
vastly different from what the
economist himself visualised.
But there is no doubt that his
influence is still a factor even
among Administrations which
would stoutly deny that they
have anything in common with
Socialism,
Capital - development, as
Keynes has said, is likely to be a
job ill-done when it becomes the
by-product of a casino. But
speculation is a natural thing,
and when it is harnessed to real
productive enterprise it has virtue
as well as vice. The industrial
might of the United States was
built up on a combination of
hard work and considered specu-
lation. Australia, a young
country, is likely to develop most
rapidly along similar lines.
Gambling that produces some-
thing is of far more value than a
mere lottery or a bet on a horse.
There are a number of things
Australia needs to take note of
right now. From wherever its
economic policies derive, how-
ever much investment has been
socialised (through taxation,
price-control, etc.) while nomin-
ally remaining in the hands of
private management, and how-
ever much its economy is being
planned for it by Federal and
State Governments, the fact re-
mains that we are far from
approaching that state visualised
by Keynes where there would be
such an accumulation of produc-
tive wealth that capital assets
would cease to be scarce. On
the contrary, our capital assets,
in proportion to the population,
are scarcer (or more decrepit)
than they were in 1939. Our pro-
ductivity has fallen in many in-
dustries. This can be blamed on
the 40-hour week as much as
upon anything else. But, then,
that shortened week is part of the
Welfare State, in which so much
Keynes economic doctrine is
implicit.
Very briefly, in Australia we
have come close to “euthanasia”
of the investor without any of
the accumulation of productive
wealth that Keynes promised.
Thrift has lost many of the
rewards and privileges which
made capital-creation so much
a desired objective until World
War II began. We are now
perilously short of capital be-
cause we are not producing
' enough, not saving enough. And
too much of our savings have
been wasted when spent un-
wisely by public bodies. The
most staggering example has
been the long list of unfinished
works which the Cahill Govern-
ment has now on its hands, in-
operative because of lack of
capital.
To this pass have “State direc-
tion of investment” and a trade-
union policy of socialisation of
industry and go-slow led us.
Sugar Shares
An estimated sugar crop of
near-record proportions in
Queensland, an increase in the
export price and extension of the
Commonwealth Sugar Agree-
ment for a further year—to the
end of 1960 —need not be viewed
with too-hasty optimism by the
would-be investor in the sugar
industry.
Total Australian production of
raw sugar, to which Queensland
contributed about 95 p.c. over
the past five years, has been as
follows:
Total
Produc- Home Export
tion. market, market.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1948 .. 942,893 499,821 443,072
1949 .. 936,937 497,302 439,635
1950 .. 920,000 518,000 402,000
1951 .. 744,861 587,526 157,335
1952 .. 909,000* n.a. n.a.
* Estimate.
In the coming season an increase
on the 1951 figure of about
164,000 tons (94 n.t.) of cane
crushed is expected.
Also, compared with that year
the average price is expected to
rise by £9 2s. 6d. to £43 10s. a
ton. In 1949, when output was
near record figures, the average
price was £26 a ton ; the price-
increase over this period has thus
been 67 p.c. Added to this the
industry has since received the
security of the Commonwealth
Sugar Agreement whereby an
export market of up to 600,000-
ton yearly is assured. Last
season output fell 442,665 tons
short of that quota.
But investors are reminded to
bring this somewhat rosy picture
into perspective by noting the
dangerous cost-spiral which has
beset Australian industry
generally.
Whilst true that average prices
in the industry have increased
by 67 p.c. since 1949, the basic
wage which is one of the main
cost-determinants has increased
in Queensland by 69 p.c. over
the same period. This means that
costs are roughly keeping pace
with price-increases.
Remembering, too, how the
interest-rate on gilt - edged
securities has risen, the slightly
higher yield sought on sugar
scrip since 1949 appears to have
been well in keeping with events.
It would thus appear that
significant events of the foresee-
able future have already been
well noted on ’Change. Over the
longer period, however, there is
still room for some optimism, but
it should be optimism tempered
by regard for our cost dangers.


THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney,
p. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
INSURANCE —for your protection'
LTD.
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON,
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £13,000,000. Established
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
BWBI3I (3 lines) C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
1835.
The Flying “Whale”
LONDON, 1816
UR aeronautical cor-
M respondent yesterday
inspected a strange
dirigible which is at present being
constructed by S. T. Pauly and
Durs Egg, Swiss gunsmiths. The
airship is to be propelled by oars
and fins, powered by a kind of
atmospheric steam engine in-
vented by Mr. Collier. To give
control in climb and descent, a
hinged horizontal fin with an ad-
justable ballast weight is fitted.
“Free Ballooning,” said Mr.
Pauly, “is a pleasant enough pas-
time. But my aim is to produce a
controllable aircraft which is fast
and efficient; an aircraft as
renowned for these qualities”
and here he paused as if lost for
a word “as is the BP Aviation
Service. The public may not yet
understand that comparison, but
they will, gentlemen, they will!”
SERVICE
AVIATION
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.. All States.
A wholly owned subsidiary of Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
The most important get-
together of Prime Ministers since
the Ottawa Conference of 1931
has left us rather in the a!ir.
Months of intensive preparation,
instigated and inspired by Mr.
Churchill himself, have caused
a major dislocation in Whitehall.
The Prime Ministers have broad-
cast individually to the nation.
And a vast concourse of
observers and commentators
have been hanging about, eager
as Cockney sparrows for crumbs
of pronouncement to fall from
the conference-table. There were
none. If the Prime Ministers
keep as tightly to their projects
as they do to their confidences
the outcome will never be in
doubt. It will be immensely
successful.
Yet the right attitude to these
talks is clear enough. They are
a vital preliminary to a series of
delicate and painstaking negotia-
tions. Loquacity and overcon-
fidence in public relations would
certainly have a bad effect. But
it is unfortunate that the thick
“London particular” which over-
cast our streets also seems
to have affected the official
communique, verbose and
ambiguous even by standards of
its kind. One can but feel that
a fairer summing-up might well
have been the simple, Asquithian
command; “Wait and see!”
Home Saving ?
Lord Bruce’s suggestion of a
Commonwealth Finance Corpor-
ation intrigues the City, which
applauds the statement (in the
communique) that “The United
Kingdom Government are deter-
mined that the flow of capital
from London for sound develop-
ment throughout the Common-
wealth should be maintained and
increased.” Not least is it
intrigued to know where the
money is coming from, for
private saving is not a charac-
teristic of the Welfare State.
Two factors—penal taxation and
the hangover from Socialist
laisser-faire—have induced what
is cynically styled “national
dissaving.”
Some considerable alteration
to our financial structure will be
required before money for
capital development, which must
be drawn substantially from the
wage-packet, is forthcoming.
Everything points to a Govern-
ment-inspired savings campaign
which, if successful, will go a
long way towards solving three
problems simultaneously: pro-
ducing capital for investment,
stemming inflation and giving the
moneyed class —the workers—a
sense of individual responsibility.
We could do with all three.
Temporary Nobility
Parliamentary government is
going through a bad patch at
present. In fact, it is question-
able whether the fortunes of the
Lower Chamber were ever lower.
Party warfare, with its cheap
artifices and outbursts of bad
temper, seems to have under-
mined the dignity of the House.
True, there are now signs of
contrition. It is dawning upon
M.P.s that they have lost the
respect of the electorate, which
looks askance at their noisy
bickering.
By contrast and, perhaps, in
compensation, the House of
Lords has conducted its proceed-
ings with the utmost decorum.
More than once it has, contrari-
wise, proved to be friend and
protector of the common man.
It has challenged the insidious
encroachment of the bureaucratic
machine upon the rights of the
subject, and has pronounced
strongly upon the slick facility of
government-by-decree. And it
has now given the Lower
Chamber a lead upon the most
controversial topic of the day—
repeal of the Rent Restriction
Acts, a stinging-nettle neither
party has yet dared to grasp.
Both parties have also
repeatedly shelved another
essential reform —that of the
House of Lords itself. So, with
commendable acknowledgment
of their own anachronisms and
anomalies, the noble lords have
warmly received Lord Simon’s
bill, providing for the creation
of 10 “life” peers a year. That
is to say, as with bishops and
the law lords, there will be no
succession. The idea is that, in
good time, membership of the
Upper Chamber will be widely
representative of the community.
Men and women who have dis-
tinguished themselves in profes-
sional, business or public life will
hold “life” peerages in their own
right.
Some kind of reform on these
lines is bound to come, sooner
or later. If such peerages are
created, as is intended, on general
rather than party - political
grounds, the moderating influ-
ence of the House of Lords will
be enhanced. Believers in Par-
liamentary democracy are
inclined to go further and say
“the sooner the better.”
Clem Gets Tough
Having won for himself and
his supporters six out of seven
seats in the constituency section
of the Labor-party executive,
the next stage in Mr. Aneurin
Bevan’s private crusade is to
make his influence felt in Par-
liament. As things are going
he doesn’t seem to be doing very
well. The Labor “Shadow
Cabinet” has given him the cold-
shoulder.
True, Mr. Attlee changed the
rules at the last minute to pre-
vent the Bevanites from having
the advantage of their own soli-
darity. The result is that Mr.
Bevan finds himself at the bottom
of the list. Without this tough but
rather squalid trick he would
have just scraped in. As it is, he
must take another chance with
11 others (including only two
of his supporters) for the six
remaining places. Mr. Bevan,
idol of the mob, is ostracised by
the orthodox.
Two important conclusions
may be drawn. The first con-
cerns the Labor leadership if
Mr. Attlee goes. Since the
middle-of-the-roaders have been
squeezed out, leaving the Old
Guard with a desultory sprink-
ling of Bevanites in the rear, it
would seem to fall upon either
Mr. Morrison, who is ex-officio,
or one of the elected six in the
first ballot.
Mr. Jim Griffiths tops the poll
and appears to be acceptable to
all, since he was the only non-
Bevanite to be elected earlier by
the constituencies. He is Welsh,
like Mr. Bevan, well respected
f° r bis passionate Socialism, an
eloquent orator upon any sub-
) ect ( b u‘ particularly on the Bad
OM T . mes) and o£ humMe
origin. His near runner-up, Mr,
Chuter Ede, although less given
to colorful rhetoric, was an out-
standingly successful Home See-
retary f/ the last Government:
and hC; tGOj is inoffensive to the
most ardent c i ass . warrior . The
other four are Dalton , Gaitskell,
Rob ens and Callaghan.
*
1 ® p ° ““ ; d
Mr. Attlee can get tough and
fiddle with rules, so too can the
trade-union leaders and the rest
of the Labor hierarchy. All of
them are “down” on Mr. Bevan.
What is to prevent further gerry-
mandering over, for instance,
the ballot for the Labor-party
executive? Mr. Sevan may not
be crushed yet, and may still
assert himself with devastating
effect > but it can hardly be in
the open. But he has certainly
™uoeuvred himself within the
ranB = o£ the reaU ? bl * BU " S ’
w j N p
War and No Peace
Should a man and woman, m
fairness to each other, enter into
a contract of marriage when the
man is in P art responsible for
the death of the woman’s
brother? This, stripped and
stark, is the theme of “The River
Line” (Strand Theatre) whose
author, Charles Morgan, is one
of our most distinguished men
of letters but not a practising
dramatist (his first, and only
previous, play appeared 14 years
ago).
The writing contains all that
might be expected of a literary
intellectual: style, deep thought,
seriousness, slightly self-
conscious imagery, and rich,
beautiful language. Yet these
very qualities, when subjected to
the wry magnifications of the
stage, too often lead to the
reverse of success, if not even to •
absurdity. Mr. Morgan has
taken good care to make them
subsidiary to a scrupulously
“well-made” plot and urgent
dramatic tension. The result is
a problem-play which, although
perhaps a shade overwritten, is
provocative, compelling and
adult.
A seedyish Commander, R.N.
(retd.) and his wife, a French-
woman, are entertaining an
American professor at their
Gloucestershire home shortly
after the war. In France, four
years previously, they were,
respectively, secret-agent, resist-
ance-leader and baled-out air-
man. The American wants to
talk about his adventures in the
“River Line” (escape-route from
Brussels to Spain). The others
don’t. He falls in love with a
neighboring girl whose half-
brother, to whom she was deeply
attached, mysteriously disap-
peared about the same time as
his escape.
A second-act “flashback,” set
in the then mademoiselle’s
granary near Toulouse, expounds
the story. The half-brother, of
course, is one of the would-be
escapers and, at the last minute,
is suspect as a betrayer. Another
poser: When mutual survival
hangs upon a thread and
suspicion is valid and strong, is
it imperative to kill without
trial? They do. The man is
subsequently proved to be
innocent. What of the effect of
this upon the conscience of
M’selle, who secretly loved him
and is now rather stodgily
married to the Commander?
Mr. Morgan is so fertile with
his conflicts that the main theme
becomes clouded over. By the
time he reaches the third act his
profusion of ideas has become so
complex that disentanglement is
virtually forlorn. The half-
sister assumes second-sight and
the play a hm>py ending. Neither
is convincing.
With one exception (and that
is a part of immense difficulties)
the acting is superbly realistic.
The many-sided Frenchwoman
of Pamela Brown is a major
creation worthy of inclusion in
an anthology of great roles.


//
The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
States — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland,
Before you go abroad
take this wise precaution • • .
17 NSURE complete enjoyment and absence of
worry by placing the control of your affairs
in the hands of a skilled and trusted Attorney
or Agent. The Union Trustee Company is fully
equipped to act in this capacity. Its services
include the collection of all classes of income
and attention to all kinds of business and personal
matters. It also prepares taxation returns and
arranges and supervises the investment of funds.
Be sure, too, that your Will is in order.
Write, without cost or obligation, for the Company’s
booklet which explains fully these and other
services available. Or call for a confidential inter-
view with one of the Company’s senior officers.
The UNION TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria) (Established 1885)
333 Collins St., Melbourne; 2 O'Connell St., Sydney; 398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton U.T.68.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The T. and G. Mutual Life
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £, £
’4B 6,089,559 849,171 1,906,248 3,334,140 35,789,560
Written off premises, £19,466 1
To staif fund, £2450 .. ..f 35,767,644
’49 6,735,786 937,020 2,196,073 3,602,693 39,370,337
To staff fund, £2450 39,367,887
Written off premises, £15,877 .. 39,352,010
’5O 7,438,692 1,037,227 2,208,436 4,193,029 43,545,039
To staff fund, £2450 .. .. .. 43,542,589
Written off premises, £18,378 .. .. 43,524,211
’5l 8,345,295 1,284,629 2,472,364 4,588,802 48,112,513
To staff fund, £7560 .r" .. .. 48,104,953
Written off premises, £18,443 .. ..48,086.510
’52 9,396,613 1,532,609 2,846,042 5,017,962 53,104,472
To staff fund, £9600 ~ .. 58,094,872
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
'4B 4,363,554 1,137,928 2,021,432 1,204,194 22,842,334
Written off premises, £12,977 \ 99 R2R fi o7
To staff fund, £2450 .. ~ J 22,826,907
’49 4,506,077 1,189,512 2,087,110 1,229,455 24,056,362
To staff fund, £2450 24,053,912
Written off premises, £10,151 .. 24,043,761
’5O 4,664,271 1,263,651 2,260,648 1,139,972 25,183,733
To staff fund, £2450 25,181,283
Written off premises, £11,264 .. 25,170,019
’5l 4,818,292 1,412,044 2,425,171 981,077 26,151,096
To staff fund. £4320 26,146,776
Written off premises, £10,831 .. 26,135,945
’52 4,994,313 1,601,622 2,689,619 703,072 26,839,017
To staff fund, £5250 .. .. 26,833,767
Since the war the big life-offices have
acquired the habit of annually breaking
their own records. There are many
reasons for this. Inflation and growth
of population have, of course, bumped
up the figures. But more important in
the long-run are the increasing recogni-
tion of life-assurance as a means of
saving, with emphasis on the security
aspect, and the rapid growth of group
assurance as a factor in industrial super-
annuation. In these days of high taxa-
tion, high cost-of-living and rising welfare
.standards, it has become increasingly
difficult for any man to provide
adequately for his own security upon
retirement, or for the security of his
dependants upon his death, especially if
it should be premature. Hence the need
for institutions to do it for him, and of
the co-operation between himself, his
employer and his assurance office toward
this end. Not only are these contri-
butory pension schemes one way of
attracting a good and loyal body of em-
ployees, but, from the assured’s point of
view, a policy with a sound, regular-
bonus-paying office provides a full
measure of capital protection long before
it is ever paid for —an advantage for
which there is no substitute —and the
capital sum involved keeps on appreciat-
ing by regular bonus additions in both
good times and bad.
By careful underwriting, sound invest-
ment and a prudent reserve policy the
T, and G., which writes ordinary, indus-
trial and accident business throughout
Australia and New Zealand, continues to
build on strong foundations. In the
two life departments combined it wrote
a record £36,891,341 (up £3,005,658) of
new business last term —£28,551,533 (up
£2,824,716) ordinary and £8,339,808 (up
£180,942) industrial. The average amount
per ordinary policy was £6ll as against
£572 and £514 for the two preceding
years.
The year’s total income in the three
departments was £14,766,509 (up
£1,262,673), of which £11,952,373 (up
£1,065,542) was premiums and £2,814,137
(up £197,131) interest, rents, etc. Claims
(£5,689,204), exes. (£3,371,466) and con-
tributions to the staff fund (£15,000),
gobbled £9,075,670, leaving a surplus of
income over outgo of £5,690,839. The
amount added to the life funds was
£5,706,184, raising them to £79,928,639,
which had the support and assistance of
£1,399,906 of investment and other
reserves, which also belong to policy-
holders, there being no shareholders. In
the accident section outgo, etc., exceeded
income by £15,345, thus reducing the
insurance fund to £232,568, which is
more than enough to cover unexpired
risks, and there is a further £50,300 ear-
marked for contingencies.
Claims were well within actuarial ex-
pectation, but, like other life-offices, the
co, is feeling the pinch of steeply-rising
wage and other costs, and of low net
rentals (after deducting the cost of main-
tenance and repairs) upon interest earn-
ings, which are the chief source of
bonuses to policyholders. Excluding
taxes and contributions to staff fund, etc.,
exes, took 14.2 p.c. of total income in
the ordinary and 29.2 p.c. in the indus-
trial department as against 13.5 p.c. and
26.9 p.c. respectively for the previous
term. In the O.D. the net effective rate
of interest earned on the mean assurance
fund (after deducting income-tax) was
£3 Bs. lOd. p.c. (down lid. p.c.) How-
ever, with a better rate of interest now
available from new investments some im-
provement in the overall net rate can be
looked for. The actuary calculates policy
liabilities in the O.D. on a stringent
2\ p.c. net basis, except for a small
amount of pure endowments, etc., and in
the I.D. on a mixed 2 p.c. and 2\ p.c.
basis.
The amounts available for distribution
(excess of assurance funds over policy
liabilities) increased by £60,470 in the
0. and decreased by £52,742 in the
1.
Net surplus— 1950. 1951. 1952.
Ordinary .. .. £970,132 £977,022 £1,037,492
Industrial .. 425,865 455,292 402,550
Total ~ £1,395,997 £1,432,314 £1,440,042
The amounts distributed were £974,473
O.D. and £368,207 1.D., which provided
reversionary bonuses to policyholders on
a slightly reduced but satisfactory scale.
Another feature which augurs well for
the return from investments is the atten-
tion being given to loans (up £2,039,184
last term), which are largely mortgages
in connection with home purchases by
policyholders:
Public 1951. p.c. 1952. p.c.
securities ..£58,294,466 74.6 £61,477,183 73.2
Loans .. .. 14,097.217 18.0 16,136,401 19.2
Freeholds .. 3,712,384 4.8 8,792,045 4-.5
Cash, book debts,
etc 2,006,932 2.6 2,545,694 3.1
Public securities (up £3,182,717) accounted
for 73.2 p.c. of total assets at Sept. 30
last as against 78 p.c. two years previ-
ously. There are no industrial equities
in the portfolio. Premises are worth a
lot more than their book-value, and no
credit is taken in the accounts for over-
due interest, agents’ balances, plant or
other non-interest-bearing items.
Herald & Weekly Times (Melb.)
, Dividends
, — I—Pref. 1 —Pref. Re-
Sept., Profit.* 6* p.c. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.t
& £ £ £ £
From tax reserve, £15,773 .. 670,283
1947. .245,821 8124 16,500 14 p.c.=157,406 784,074
From tax reserve, £19,786 .. 753,860
Premiums, new issue, £396,000 .. 1,149,860
1948. .292,330 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=180,800 1,236,765
Surplus sale investments, £243,546.. 1,480,311
Surplus paper pool, etc., £105,110.. 1,585,421
Prom tax reserve, £24,642 .. 1,610,063
Depreciation, £236,219 .. .. 1,373,844
1949. .272,228 8125 16,500 14.1 = 204,000 1,417,447
Reduction reserves, £105,334 .. 1,312,113
Depreciation, £87,579 ~ .. 1,224,534
1950. .322,828 8125 16,500 14.1 = 204,000 1,318,737
Taxes paid, £5399 1,313,388
Depreciation, £89,440 .. .. 1,223,898
1951. .321,102 8125 16,500 14.1 = 204,000 1,316,375
From tax reserve, £1472 .. .. 1,317,847
Depreciation, £89,614 .. ..1,228,233
1952. .331,441 8125 16,500 14.1 =204,000 1,331,049
* Includes provision for depreciation,
f After deducting intangibles, now £250,000.
Sir Keith Murdoch, who came to the co.
as managing-editor in and served
successively as director, managing-
director and chairman, died on October 4,
1952. With a broad outlook and sound
judgment, backed by a penetrating mind
and dynamic energy, he did a lion’s share
of the work in building the solid financial
and editorial foundations on which the co.
now rests, and in making it the greatest
publishing house in Australia. H. D.
Giddy, who has sat at the board table
for the last 20 years, stepped into the
vacant chair at the head of it, and J. F.
Williams, who has done yeoman service
for the co. for nearly 30 years, is manag-
ing-editor and chief executive officer.
Continuity of policy, financial and other-
wise, is thus assured.
Backbone of the business is the two
Melbourne dailies, “Sun” morning and
“Herald” evening, the former With a
circulation over 405,000 and the latter
about 412,000. In addition there are
three weeklies and a like number of
monthlies, all of which contribute to the
pool, and so do the co.’s two Victorian
broadcasting-stations (3DB and 3KL),
which reported record revenues but
slightly reduced net earnings last term.
The book-publishing section had “a very
good year,” and returns from investments
were slightly higher—they include share-
holdings in “Courier-Mail” (Brisbane),
“Advertiser” (Adelaide), Australian News-
print Mills (Tas.) and Herald Gravure
Pty. The latter co. published “Woman’s
Day and Home,” an amalgamation of
two women’s journals launched separately
by H. and W.T. and John Fairfax and
Sons Pty. (Sydney) about three years ago.
The Fairfax interest in this venture was
recently taken over by H. and W.T., but
whether the journal has yet turned the
financial corner is not mentioned.
Last term more newsprint became
available, but the average f.o.b. cost of
imports for the year to June 30 last was
about double that of the preceding 12
months. The size of both the “Sun” and
the “Herald” was increased, which meant
more advertising revenue as well as more
reading matter. Earnings also got a full
year’s benefit from the lifts in selling-
prices and advertising-rates that occurred
about half-way through the previous
term. The growth in revenue was
£1,401,548;
Revenue — 1950. 1951. 1952.
Trading .. £4,808,249 £4,998,592 £6.397,287
Investments . . 80,095 75,864 78,717
Total .. £4,388,344 £5,074,456 £6,476,004
Expenditure—-
Wages, etc. .. 1,143,155 1,371,812 1,511,480
Printing paper. . 1,915,145 2,219,015 3,142,269
Other exes. . . 986,795 1,128,747 1,375,428
Taxation . . 108.000 123,220 205,000
Total .. £4,153,095 £4,842,794 £6,234,177
Net profit .. 235,249 231,662 241,827
Increases in outgoings were paper bill
£923,254, payroll-tax total £139,668, other
exes. £246,681, tax provision £81,780.
The net result was thus only £10,165
stronger at £241,827 ; it was a heartening
performance all things considered. The
£241,827 was enough to pay the pref. divs.
(£24,625) and show 15.1 p.c. on the
£1,440,000 of ord. capital as against
14.3, 14.6, 14.2 and 16 p.c. back to 1948.
The div. remained at 14.1 p.c., which is
approximately the rate paid since 1938.
The paper problem and the year’s
bigger trading again show up in growths
of £690,226 in stocks—they appear at
cost or under —and £107,447 in book-
debts ;
1950. 1951. 1952.
Stock .. .. £656,020 £586,445 £1.276,671
Debtors, etc. .. 886,476 837,491 944,938
Shares other cos... 792,426 1,094,754 1,089,434
Cash, etc 2,811 2,090 2,226
Liquids . . . . £2,337,733 £2,520,780 £8,313,269
Liabilities* .. 885,768 1,185,258 2,176,092
Surplus .. .. £1,451,965 £1,335,522 £1,137,177
Freehold, etc. . . 755,340 826,053 884,100
Machinery and
plant .. .. 951,432 994,800 1,149,772
Net assets . . £3,158,737 £3,156,375 £3,171,049
* Includes provision lor taxation.
The net addition of £213,019 to fixed
assets was mainly on account of the new
Hawthorn building and additions to and
modernisation of plant, the aim being to
assault costs by increasing production
efficiency. To meet the outlay £750,000
was raised on 4 i p.c. unsecured registered
notes, taken in equal proportions by the
A.M.P. and Colonial Mutual Life, and
£240,834 net was added to the current
liabilities.
Although the price of newsprint is now
well below last year’s peak, two factors
tend to limit the benefits. One is sub-
stantial stocks bought at the higher prices,
and the other import-licensing, which
now limits the tonnage that can be
brought into the country. Wage and
other costs, however, have lost much of
their former buoyancy. The current
year’s results wifi depend largely upon
sales of advertising space. In this respect
the co. is in a strong position.
The market, which has always had a
high opinion of the scrip, prices the f.-p.
ss. ords. at 15s, 3d, (same as a year ago)
to return 4.6 p.c. on a 14.1 p.c. div.
basis. At 235, and 225. (last recorded
sales) the 6} p.c. and 6 p.c. prefs. yield
5.6 p.c, and 5.4 p.c. respectively. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is £25 7s. 4d.
6i-per-cents, £ll Is, 7d. 6-per-cents and
9s. 7d. ords,
Queensland Insurance Co. Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit, Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1944.. 163,976 10 p.c. = 75,000 88,976 1,355,213
To reserve unexpired risks, £15,000.. 1,370,213
1945.. 192,432 10 p.c. = 75,000 117,432 1,487,645
To reserve unexpired risks, £65,000.. 1,552,645
1946.. 177,063 10 p.c. = 75,000 102.003 1,654,708
To reserve unexpired risks, £105,000.. 1,769,708
1947.. 196,429 10 p.c. = 75,000 121,429 1,881,137
To reserve unexpired risks, £150,000 2,031,137
1948.. 202,505 10 p.c. = 75,000 127,505 2,158,642
To reserve unexpired risks, £lOO,OOO 2,258,642
1949.. 206,903 12* p.c. = 93,750 118,153 2,371,795
To reserve unexpired risks, £120,000.. 2,491,795
1950.. 226,501 12$ p.c. = 93,750 132,751 2,624,546
To reserve unexpired risks, £250,000.. 2,874,546
1951.. 250,662 12 J p.c. =105,469 145,193 3,019,739
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 3,004,739
To reserve unexpired risks, £325,000.. 8,329.739
1952.. 285,215 12* p.c. =140,625 144,590 8,474,329
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 3,459,329
The figures in the table., and what lies
behind them, explain the popularity of the
co.’s scrip as an investment. At 645. 3d.
the f.-p. £1 shares return 3.9 p.c. on a
12-|- p.c. div. basis. On the same basis the
10s,-paid contribs. at 495. would return
4.2 p.c. after they are fully-paid in Sept,
next. Including unpaid capital, net
tangible cover is 665. 2d. per share.
Over the last half-dozen years net
premium income has almost trebled, as
much or more weight being put on abroad
as in Australia and New Zealand. The
overall loss-rate has been moderate, a
tight hold has been kept upon controll-
able outgoings, and net earnings have
kept on expanding. The div. was lifted
from 10 p.c. in 1948 to 12| p.c. in the
following year, and was sweetened with
a one-for-one new share-issue at par
early in 1951, which lifted issued capital
to £1,500,000 —there was £375,000 still
to come when the books last closed and
is payable ss. a share at end March and
Sept. next. It was the first cash issue
for over 40 years, paid capital having
advanced from £75,000 in 1910 to
£750,000 in 1934, by capitalisation of
reserves. And, including £1,675,000 ear-
marked for unexpired risks, reserves had
piled up to £3,459,329 at Sept. 30, 1952.
The co.’s overseas activities embrace
the following fields: U.K., where a large
treaty and marine business is done, Africa
from the Cape Town to Cairo, Middle
East, India, Pakistan, Malaya, Indonesia,
Western Canada and Jamaica. Despite
disturbed political conditions in several
of the countries mentioned, net premium
income increased by £559,860 (22.6 p.c.)
last term. The growth occurred during
the first nine months of the period, after
which there was a falling-off in trade
activity generally and consequent drop in
premium income;
Net Loss Expense
Sept., Premiums. Claims. Expenses.! Rate. Rate.
-•£ £ £ p.c. p.c.
1947.. 1.253.003 616,765 446,523* 49.2 85.6
1948. .1,524,443 718,832 576,928* 46.8 87.8
1949. .1,705,881 829,824 691,039* 48.6 40.5
1950. .1,865,334 895,130 763,620* 47.9 40.9
1951. .2,469,470 1,124,171 998,429* 45.5 40.2
1952. .3,029,330 1,455,242 1,123,942* 48.0 37.1
* Excludes taxes, etc., on returns from investments,
f Including contributions to staff fund.
Another pleasing feature is that the bigger
business was written at £3 2s. less cost.
Considering the stiff rise in Australian


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, G.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * ♦ ♦
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
RUPTURED?
You can now wear the world-famous Rigiflex Belt, now
available in Australia, acclaimed as the greatest advance
in rupture treatment. It supports not only the hernia,
but also the abdominal parts therefore relieving the entire
weight and pressure on the hernia area, and prevents the
spreading of the rupture. A feeling of fitness and complete
freedom entirely replaces the rigid local pressure exer-
cised by trusses.
The special Tricot ex-
ercises the pressure
on the whole abdo-
Pliable supports
to give extra
pressure.
>
Soft Airollasta pads
(non-inflated) for the
hernia region.
minal region
Strong elastic panel
for complete
freedom of
movement.
Adjustable straps
with buckle to
regulate tension
at will.
THE RIGIFLEX BELT
Obtainable ONLY from:
Rigiflex Dept., J. ROUSSEL of Paris PTY. LTD.
84 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l. Tel: FA8357
Open Saturday mornings
Please send me free illustrated booklet “The Rigiflex Method”
NAME ~
ADDRESS ....
STATE
/
'M
W'
m
V/
4
They steered
by the stars...
Early mariners voyaged far into the wide expanse
of sea.
But they did not steer a haphazard course. They
were guided in their journeys by the immutable
stars.
Wise people of to-day never steer a
haphazard course. They follow a care-
fully worked out plan, steering a
straight course for security,
Let The National Mutual work out an assurance
plan for you —safeguarding the financial future
of both you and your dependants.
Write or ring BL 1271: an experienced officer
will call.
im
(iNC. ilt> ,VICJ
LIFE ASSOCIATION
ESTABLISHED! 869
350 GEORGE’ STREET.IjSYDNEY.
’urely mutual —all profits divided amongst policyholders.
wage-rates and heavy charge for
maintenance of fire brigades, the
drop in the cost ratio is a pointer
to the importance of the co'.’s
overseas connections. The loss-
rate was £2 10s. p.c. heavier, due
partly to the extensive damage
caused by severe hurricane in
Jamaica. However, “provision
had been made for the co.’s pro-
tection against such an eventu-
ality,” the chairman says.
The gross underwriting surplus
was £98,276 stronger at £450,146,
of which £325,000 was sent to the
reserve for unexpired risks, mak-
ing it 55.3 p.c. of the year’s net
premiums, whereas 40 p.c, is
usually considered adequate.
The net underwriting surplus was
thus conservatively put at
£125,146 (up £23,276). Interest
and rents, etc., turned in £160,069
(up £11,277), making the net
amount available for distribution
from all sources £285,215 (up
£34,553). That was equal to
25.3 p.c. on paid capital as it
now stands —14.2 p.c. from
investments and 11.1 p.c, from
underwriting.
Although there are indications
that some shrinkage in premium
income can be expected during
the current term, and costs will
be difficult -to curb, there is
nothing at the moment to suggest
that the 12} p.c. div. is likely to
be in any danger. On £1,500,000
of capital it will call for £187,500,
which looks like being covered,
or nearly covered, by returns
from investments alone when the
full amount becomes payable
two years hence.
The year’s growth in net assets
was £558,237:
1951. p.c. 1952. p.c.
Govt. £ £
securities 2,578,725 36.1 2,524,767 32.0
Cash, etc. 575,489 8.1 665,410 8.4
Shares, etc. 933,027 13.1 1,142,787 14.5
Mortgages 780,012 10.9 1,116,133 14.1
Book debts 1,134,209 15.9 1,260,085 16.0
Freeholds 1,137,765 15.9 1,176,048 13.0
Total
assets 7,139,227 100.0 7,885,180 100.0
Liabilities* ?,93 7,82 2 3,125,538
Net assets 4,201,405 4,759,642
* Includes unstated provision for con-
tingencies.
The additions of £209,710 to
shareholdings and of £336,121 to
mortgages augur well for con-
tinued improvement in returns
from investments. Both policy-
holders and shareholders are
obviously well protected.
Marcus Clark & Co. (Syd.)
Nominal
Ords. Written Re-
Aug., Profit.* Prefs.t 4 p.c. Off. serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
’44 63,682 37,360 16,198 8,094 67,854
5 p.c.
’45 68,660 37,360 20,247 6,578 72,329
6 p.c.
’46 80,382 37,360 24,296 7,151 83,904
Capital profit, £13,817 .. 97,721
’47 88,692 37,360 24,296 8,733 114,024
Capital profit, £5711 . . 119,735
July,
’4B 90,287 37,360 24,296 6,525 141,841
’49 80,718 37,360 24,296 6,960 155,943
Capital profit, £56,760 .. 210,703
Shareholdings written up,
£25,228 253,931
’5O 88;938 37,860 24,296 8,897 254,316
Capital profit, £36,457 .. 289,773
7 p.c.
’5l 101,530 37,860 28,346 10,479 315,118
Capital profit, £45,702 .. 360,820
’52 81,202 37,360 28,346 15,484 360,882
* Includes provision for depreciation,
later shown as written off. t 6 p.c. and
61 p.c. t Subject to goodwill, £72,378.
A multitude of difficulties,
financial and otherwise, beset
retail and other traders during
the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts. Here is what the
chairman, Sir Marcus Clark, says
about trade developments:
We commenced the year with sales
still going ahead of the previous
record year, and this boom continued
until Christmas, 1951, notwithstand-
ing the savage and ridiculous increase
in sales-tax. Then the stifling effects
of both Federal and State Govern-
ments’ actions began to be felt
seriously, and, in common with most
of the retail trade, there was a con-
siderable falling-off in sales during
six out of seven of the last months
of our financial year.
The spate of imports early in the
term ended the era of acute
shortages in the retail and
textile trades, there was a healthy
switch from a sellers’ to a buyers’
market, gross margins narrowed,
credit became less plentiful, wage
and other operating costs con-
tinued to rise steeply, and stocks
and debtors’ balances had to be
worked down to meet current
trade commitments. It was an
unholy combination, the impact
of which would have been worse
but for import restrictions and
timely action by the banks.
For the full year turnover was
within 1 p.c. of the previous
term’s record figure. But for
reasons already explained there
was an abrupt contraction of
£25,283 (27.7 p.c.) in net earn-
ings. That was after allowing
£15,434 (up £4955) for deprecia-
tion—included with profits and
then shown as written off in the
table —and setting aside some-
thing for taxation and other con-
tingencies. The £65,768 of net
profit claimed was enough to
pay the pref. divs. (£37,360) and
show a wink over 7 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 13.2, 10.5, 9,
11.4 and 10 p.c. back to 1947.
In addition there was a capital
profit of £45,702 on sale of two
properties, which was added to
reserves. The div., lifted from
6 p.c. to 7 p.c. in the previous
term, was maintained at the
higher rate, which might be taken
as a hint that the board considers
the worst of the co.’s troubles
have passed.
Certainly the 1952 Christmas
trade was surprisingly good, the
costs-gradient has lost much of
its former steepness, there is to
be a slight easing of import
restrictions, home-building and
the furnishing that goes with it is
beginning to look-up again, and
there is no serious threat of
unemployment. Altogether the
outlook is becoming more
settled, with trade at a lower
level but more competitive than
a year ago. Appearances are that
the co. will have a struggle to
maintain 7 p.c. to the ords.
C.I.C. having twice refused the
co. permission to make a new
share - issue and/or borrow
£lOO,OOO on fixed terms, the co.
appealed to the High Court,
which decided that the Capital
Issues regulations were valid. So
the co. has had to shorten sail,
as the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures shows:
1950. 1951. 1952.
£ £ £
Paid capital 1,002,786 1,002,786 1,002,786
Secured
credits .. 608,428 779,552 857,018
Other
creditors*. 258,966 490,719 208,870
Final divs. 42,976 47,020 47,026
Freeholds, etc. 655,491 680,546 701,910
Plant, etc... 82,830 113,588 119,644
Stocks . . 398,971 616,822 482,872
Book debts 608,906 766,000 697,077
Shares, etc. 334,179 362,298 363,322
Cash, etc... 14,717 23,567 39,374
Goodwill . . 72,378 72,378 72,378
* Includes provision for taxation.
To clip £281,849 off the amount
coming to trade creditors, etc.,
stocks (in at cost or under) were
reduced by £133,950 and book-
debts by £68,923, and £77,461
was added to bank and other
loans. The net growth of
£27,420 in fixed assets reflects
completion of a new furniture-
store at Dubbo and a modified
programme of improvements
elsewhere. When the books
closed there was 15s. Bd. of out-
side money in the business for
every pound of shareholders’
funds as against 19s. 3d. at the
previous balance.
Shareholdings consist mainly
of the £125,000 of ord. capital
in Bon Marche, drapers (Sydney),
and most of the £170,000 of ord.
capital in Miller Anderson,
drapers (Adelaide). The Sydney
co. paid 1\ p.c. and the Adelaide
co. 8 p.c. last term.
The £1,002,786 of capital is in
300,000 £1 6 p.c. and 297,848 £1
6i p.c. cum. prefs. and 809,876
10s. ords. At Bs. 3d. (11s. 2d. a-
year ago) the ords. return
8.5 p.c. so long as the 7 p.c. div.
continues, or 6.1 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
distribution. Both lots of prefs.
are priced at 17s. 9d, to yield
6.7 p.c. and 7.3 p.c. respectively.
Net tangible cover is £4 6s. Bd.
6-per-cents., £3 6s. 7d.
cents., and 17s. 3d. ords.
Tableland Tin Dredging
The co.. finished up work on
its Return Creek (N.Q.) leases
by treating 2,760,000 c.y. (up
378,800 c.y.) of 4.360 z. ground
for 336.25 tons (up 30.75 tons)
of 72 p.c. tin ore for the year to
June 30 last. Costs were kept on
a fairly even keel at 17.19 d. per
yard. The profit was £31,329
better at £37,827, or 11.6 p.c. on
capital, thanks mainly to the rise
in the locally-controlled buying-
price of tin, now £llOO p.t. as
against £B9O p.t. early in 1951.
No divs. were paid.
At the close of accounts there
was over six months’ work ahead
of the dredge at Return Creek,
but practically no water in the
dam. So, instead of waiting for
the wet season, it was decided to
go ahead with transfer of the
machine to the new area at
Smith’s Creek, about six miles
away. The cost, originally put
at £200,000, is now expected to
be £300,000, and the Queensland
Secondary Industries Board has
guaranteed the co.’s overdraft
with the bank up to the higher
amount. No indication is given
as to how long the job is likely to
take. Meanwhile there will be a
dry patch for shareholders.
The new property was taken
over from Alluvial Prospectors,
Ltd., on a profit-sharing basis,
the first £50,000 of each year's
net earnings to go to Tableland,
plus 85 p.c. of any balance, and
the other 15 p.c. to the vendor.
The area contains 50,000,000 c.y.
check-bored to average 11.460 z.
to. per yard, and an 80 p.c.
recovery is expected. With the
price of the metal and costs as
they are, it should prove a very
profitable proposition.
Paid capital is £326,000 in
80,000 8 p.c. cumulative partici-
pating prefs. and 240,000 ords.,
all of £1 each, and 120,000
deferreds of Is. each. At June
30 last stores figured at £64,044,
debtors £18,219 and cash £9307.
There was £19,718 coming to
outsiders.
“Gascoyne”: Four successful
years of mining at the Coolegong
tinfield, 50 miles south-west of
Marble Bar (W.A.), have shown
J. A. Johnston and his four sons
the wisdom of tin-mining with
modern earth-moving equipment.
Beginning in a small way four
years ago, they found that by
using a bulldozer they were able
to win £5OOO-worth of tin in their
first year of operation. Last
year just over £15,000-worth of
the metal was won. Now, with
the latest earth-moving equip-
ment and extra sluicing plants,
and based on their return for the
four weeks ending Nov. 3 last,
which was 9 tons 7cwt. of tin,
they are confident of recovering
£40,000-worth of the stuff in
1953.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Ring out the old, ring in the new—
and in swung 1953 on the usual round
of gaiety,, and a long Honors List. But
a most unwelcome surprise was an-
nounced. The Lord Mayor, backed up
by a number of Civic Fathers, had decided
that a stretch of trees along St. Kilda-
road should be uprooted and replaced
by young trees. A cyclone of protest wax
raised ; experts looked at the trees, said
they were not diseased, and that to
remove them almost on the eve of the
Royal visit was madness. But relax —
the Civic Fathers have listened to reason,
and, for the time being, the trees are
safe,
☆ ☆ &
New Year’s Eve revels included parties
at Chevron, Commercial-road, where in
the fairy-lighted foyer still stood the gaily-
decorated Christmas-tree. Mr. and Mrs.
John Carrodus took a large party, as did
Wing-Commander and Mrs. Dean Swift.
At their Frankston home Sir John and
Lady Storey entertained many guests,
among them the Prime Minister, Mrs.
Menzies and daughter Heather. This
party served also to welcome son Keith
Storey (who has been in London) and
the Storey daughter and son-in-law from
America, Baron and Baroness von
Kohorn. Most of the 70 guests were
young friends of Keith Storey; they
danced on the terrace, which was deco-
rated with colored “bubble”-lights from
America. Hydrangeas in all shades were
banked in the hail. Present also—Sir
Dalziel Kelly, Sir Frederick and Lady
Shedden, the Alfred Daffs of New York
and Dr. and Mrs. Paddy Moran.
if * ☆
One honor bestowed by the Queen has
given a great deal of satisfaction to many
people: the knighthood for Air-Marshal
George Jones. Lady Jones has always
taken a great interest in the Air Force
Women’s Association, and in the war
years was a most energetic president of it.
Now that her husband is retired, a home
at Kew and one in the Dandenongs keep
her occupied.
Miss Nest Malcolm, M.B.E. in the
Honors List, for 33 years was secretary of
the Travellers’ Aid Society, Always
interested personally in the many
hundreds, of travellers from all parts of
the world who gravitated to the society,
she has, too, helped young women who,
with no parents in this country, havd
been married from the Travellers’ Aid
headquarters in King-street.
For her work among the mentally
afflicted for the past 20 years Mrs. M.
Pardy received the M.B.E. In 1933,
Mrs. Pardy formed the first auxiliary for
mental hospitals; today she is one of
three women on the advisory committee
to the Mental Hygiene Authority, and is
president of the mental hospital’s
auxiliaries, of which there are 15 in the
State.
For services to the Girl Guide move-
ment Mrs. C. O. Fairbairn, of Banongil,
Skipton, has been rewarded with the
0.8. E. Chief Commissioner of the Girl
Guides’ Association for Australia, Mrs.
has been interested in Guiding
for 30 years. She has four daughters—
Mrs. Philip Russell, Mrs. David Calvert
and Patience and Franka Fairbairn,
A country woman, Mrs. R. Austin, of
Mortlake, also received the 0.8. E.
Country vice-president of the Liberal-and-
Country party, she is a council-member
of the Red Cross, a J.P. and a member
of the C.W.A.
Mrs. J. T. Haynes’s M.B.E. came for
her work as secretary of the women’s
section of the Liberal-and-Country party
in Victoria; Miss Ethel Rawson’s for
her selfless work as charge-nurse at the
Kew Children’s Cottages, where she has
been helping sub-normal children since
1922.
» ☆ ☆
Of great interest to a host of country
friends is the recently-announced engage-
ment of Margaret Russell and Alan
Hobbs. Margaret is the youngest
daughter of Major and Mrs. Philip
Russell, of Carngham (Vic.), and Alan is
the only son of Mr. and Mrs. George ,
Hobbs, of Bullengarook Park, Gisborne
(Vic.). ,
Of 27 women graduates who received
their degrees in the University’s Union
Theatre, 16 were doctors. Dr. Lorna
Murfitt, of Allansford, who was among
those receiving the degrees of Bachelor
of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery,
topped her class. She won an exhibition,
gained first-class honors in obstetrics and
gynaecology, and was awarded the Fulton
Scholarship and the Wyeth Prize. Dr.
Murfitt, who is 23, will take up an
appointment on the staff of the Royal
Melbourne Hospital.
Dr. Bertha Ungar, assistant medical
superintendent of Royal Melbourne
Hospital, took out her degree as Doctor
of Medicine. As well as taking part in
the academic procession at the conferring
of degrees, the university’s acting-registrar,
Dr. J. S. Rogers, saw his daughter Patti
graduate—she gained the Harriet Power
Prize, valued at £lOO, and is one of four
women doctors who will go to the Alfred
Hospital as residents. Dr. Dorothy
Bailhache received her degree at the same
conferring as her fiancd. Dr. Alastair
Cole, of Camberwell, and married him
two days later.
When Charles Doming, husband of
Nina Cooke, produced Mozart’s “Cosi
Fan Tune” at the Arrow Theatre recently
Nina had the starring role in this modern
English translation. Nina, who came
from the U.S. to play feminine lead in
“Song of Norway,” has now settled in this
city with her husband, who also starred
in that musical. She played in the Mozart
opera in Hollywood and also appeared
in the television production. Nina’s stage
career began at 17; since then she has
played lead all over America in “The
Desert Song” and “The Student Prince.”
Her ambition is to become a concert
artist.
Lady Grimwade heads an enthusiastic
committee working for the International
House Fair to be held in the University
grounds on May 1 and 2. Close on £lOOO
is in hand, all raised by stallholders.
Throwing all her energies into the
organisation is hon. organiser Mrs v W. H.
Sloane, of East Malvern. Members of
the committee include Lady Howe, Lady
McConnan, Lady Medley, Mrs. I. Clunies
Ross, Mrs. J, G. B. McDonald and Mrs.
G. W. Paton, wife of the vice-chancellor
of the university. On the stalls will be
cakes and jams, children’s wear, produce,
flowers and gardening requisites, men’s
wear, novelties, handwork and “white
elephants.” All proceeds go to build a
hostel at or near the university to house
overseas and Australian students.
# V v
A charming New Australian is
Swedish Solveig Douglas, who came to
these shores 14 months ago for a visit,
and four months ago, having met and
married John Douglas (of the United
Nations Appeal for Children Organisa-
tion), decided to make her home here.
Interested in writing and painting, Mrs,
Douglas thinks that life here is “more
easy,” not so overshadowed by the fear
of war. She is the daughter of Professor
and Mrs, Theodore Blomquist, of Copen-
hagen. Her mother is at present visiting
Sydney but will return in the New Year,
when Mr. and Mrs. Douglas hope also
to pay a visit to Sweden.
SYDNEY
Anyone can go to a New Year’s Eve
party in Sydney who has the energy
to cope with the crowds at King’s Cross,
Bondi Beach or Manly, where thousands
welcomed 1953 with lights, laughter and
enough noise to reach to the other side
of the world. Looking around at the
lighthearted gatherings it was impossible
to believe that 1953 could provide any-
thing but a happy new year.
Meantime at Avalon, Newport, Palm
Beach, Terrigal and Pittwater, Sydney’s
smartest groups celebrated at gay parties.
Always notable, and this year attended by
nearly 800 people, was the party of Palm
Beach’s Pacific Club, where Nola Deky-
vere, newly returned from abroad, took
all eyes with her green felt skirt edged
with black fringe—as did Mrs. Alan
Copeland, who, with her husband, has
the Marcel Dekyveres staying with them.
She wore a fetching gown of green and
white cotton. Beverley Coles, now on
her way to England and the Coronation
with Barbara Potter, was there, also
Wendy Birks, Phillipa Curiewis and Jill
Campbell. This was the place to see just
how smart cotton gets, some of it printed
with gold designs, some shimmering with
inwoven metallic stripes, some sheer as
silk, some glazed like brocade and some
“straight” and most successful as crisp
white pique. Worn with sandal shoes of
all designs, straw and shell jewellery,
bobbles and fringe for embroidery, these
evening summer fashions somehow seem
the most Australian as well as the most
attractive of all turnouts.
Resolutions seem to be going out of
date a bit, maybe because the two most
popular, to slim and to budget one’s ex-
penditure, seem doomed to failure early
in the year ; the first because the holiday
season brings one into too many meals
not cooked by oneself (always a tempta-
tion) and the second is obviously impos-
sible in the face of so many sales. The
most successful resolutions are those made
on behalf of other people, such as: “I’ve
resolved that Diana shall practise two
hours a day this year. I’ll be quite firm
about it,” or “I’m determined to have
the kitchen painted at last. John is to
start next Saturday without fail.” On
the whole, however, it seems that resolu-
tions would be more popular and per-
manent if the New Year came in the
spring instead of just now, when all one
really wants to do is to lie on the beach
and relax.
The Palm Beach season is also the
season of “light reading,” but the first
book of the kind to come this way rather
baffled classification. Breakdown, by
Patrick Marsh, it tells, in a common-
place and uncomplicated style, an episode
in the life of a scientist who is working
on a secret weapon and is also worried
because someone else is in love with
His wife. He doesn’t blow up the lover
with the secret weapon (as might have
been expected), but acts with a magna-
nimity matched only by that of the lover
and the wife, so everything pans out all
right.
“Light” indeed, but the book abounds
in paragraphs such as this:
“Half-way up the spindle a case en-
closed the steadying gyroscope ; above the
ring bearing came the aerial and on top of
that another casing—temporary protec-
tion for the naked shaft where we were
working to the closest limits; the point
of attachment of the vacuthermo.”
After that had been read, but not
digested, the resolution not to skip bits
of books went west. Perhaps a man
might like these bits, perhaps a woman
might like the “triangle” bits. Perhaps
Jack Spratt and his wife might make a
go of it.
The second book of the New Year,
Windom’s Way (Collins), by James
Ramsey Ullman, proved, however, a
very pleasant way of whiling away
a few hours. Also contemporary
in theme, it tells of the work
of a doctor in South-East Asia, who
becomes involved in political affairs be-
cause of his interest and sympathy with
the native population and his belief in
the triumph of reason and commonsense.
His wife complicates things (we women
really do seem useful as plot-com-
plicators). She is sophisticated and rather
blase but wishes to help him in his voca-
tion, The characters are quite vivid, the
story well constructed, and the adventure
realistic, while the simple seriousness of
Windom makes him a very sympathetic
centre for a well-told story.
☆ ☆ ☆
To celebrate the engagement of their
daughter Janet to Roy Michael, of
Epping, Mr. and Mrs. George Bardsley
entertained about 100 guests at a cock-
tail-party held at their waterside home at
Drummoyne. Mrs. Bardsley wore a dark-
grey suit of tie-silk with flying panels.
Janet pinned two pink roses to the bodice
of her pale-grey lace dress which was
worn over an apple-green slip. Mrs.
Cecil Michael wore a cocktail-dress of
silver brocade. Among the guests were
several members of the Queen Victoria
Club, of which Mrs. Bardsley is president.
The brightness of ships’ departures has
almost reached the height of pre-war
sailings. There was a large crowd to see
the Orion leave for London on Saturday,
including one small four-year-old who
was fascinated by what he called “the
bathrooms with the beds in them.”
Grazier Mr, Leonard Bligh and Mrs.
Bligh, of Pejar Park, Woodhouselee
(N.S.W.), were aboard for Naples, while
London-bound was Wilma Fountain, who
is an agricultural research assistant at
Sydney University and who intends to
stay nearly a year in Europe. June Wood,
of Balgowlah, will study ballet-dancing
in London for a year. To join the ship
in Melbourne, Sir Robert and Lady Bar-
low (she is actress Margaret Rawlings)
with their young daughter Jane, and Sir
Lionel and Lady Kearns.
Mrs. Stanley Hayter, who, as Lorna
Byrne, is well known for her work with
the Department of Agriculture, com-
menced last week her radio-session for
country women, which is to be a regular
feature from 2FC and 2NA each Friday
at 1 p.m. Mrs. Hayter is the right person
for such a session—her knowledge of
country life and the needs of the country
woman is extensive. Born at Currabu-
bula (N.S.W.), she was brought up in the
country, educated at Maitland and gained
her B.Sc. Agriculture at Sydney Uni-
versity. For many years she was
organiser of the women's section of the
Agricultural Bureau of N.S.W., and has
just returned from a 14-month study of
rural organisation in Spain, Holland,
Scandinavia and the British Isles. Re-
turning via U.S.A., she noted that nearly
every State University there has a school
of home economists attached to its school
of agriculture. Her aim in her new radio-
session will be to help Australian country
women save time, work, waste and
money.
Felicity Gowing, of Hampden Hall,
Kempsey (N.S.W.), who leaves on the
14th of this month for a tour of America
under the International Farm Youth Ex-
change Project, will be the first Aus-
tralian woman to make an overseas tour
under this scheme. Chosen by the Aus-
tralian Council of Young Farmers, Miss
Gowing has been a member of the Junior
Farmer Movement for 12 years (she is
now 22), and has made a special study of
dairy-cow- and calf-rearing, fruit-preserv-
ing and dairy-cattle show-judging. In
preparation for her tour, she has taken a
special course at Parramatta Home
Science School in Australian history and
public-speaking. With two other young
farmers she will travel by B.C.P.A. and
will also visit the U.K. as a guest of the
National Federation of Young Farmers’
Clubs of Wales.
☆ ☆ ☆
It is good to hear news from overseas
that the atomic-energy experts hope to
design the first atomic-power plants in
1953. It is reported that these would be
small power packages for supplying elec-
tricity to remote areas lacking other
sources of energy. How wonderful this
would be for Australia’s outback, and,
indeed, for Sydney itself (when you come
to think of it). The main thing is, how-
ever, that at last we seem likely to get
something constructive out of atomic
energy, something to turn it from a threat
to a blessing.


Missing Beneficiary
SYDNEY CRAWFORD SPENCER, a
brother of MARY JANE SPENCER, late
of 34 Oarlyon Street, Ormond, Victoria,
spinster, deceased, intestate, who died on
the 20th day of February, 1948, or any
child of his who survived the deceased,
would be entitled to a share of the de-
ceased’s estate. Any person having any
knowledge of Sydney Crawford Spencer
or any child of his, is requested to com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE.
412 Collins Street, Melbourne, the ad-
ministrator of the estate. Unless Sydney
Crawford Spencer or any person claiming
through him as one of his issue claims a
share in the estate before the expiration
of four months from the publication
hereof the Public Trustee may distribute
the estate as if Sydney Crawford Spencer
had predeceased the deceased without
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce,
TO MAURICE MICHAEL McARDLE late
of Broken Hill and Molong.—TAKL
NOTICE that BARBARA ELLEN Mc-
ARDLE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4818 of 1952 on the grounds ot
desertion without just cause or excuse tor
three years and upwards If you intend to
defend this suit you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court House King Street Sydney by the
Ninth day of March 1953 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
GEORGE MONTGOMERY STAFFORD.
Solicitor for the Petition, 79 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, in the State of New
South Wales.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Personal and Missing Friends
fO FAIRY PRIME address unknown.—
I'AKE NOTICE that WILMA MARA
DEEBLE of 200 Carrington Street Hilton
?ark in the State of Western Australia
ias commenced Divorce proceedings
igainst her husband ROBERT THOM A
OEEBLE and against you in the Suprem
Jourt of Western Australia on the ground
fiat the said ROBERT THOMASDEBLL
ias committed adultery with ) " »’
iesire to defend such proceedings YO.*
nust file- yoqr defence in Central
Dffice of the Supreme Court at Pcrt
fie said State of Western Australia with n
forty (40) clear days from the date o
fiis publication IN default of yo
loing the case may proceed and me
Dourt will pronounce judgment and maK
irders against you -in ypur absence.
DATED the 22nd day of December, 195£
—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
[JNMACK & CULLEN, of 45 Market
Street, Fremantle, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Shaw’s Love-letters
The letters published in
Bernard Shaw and Mrs. Pat-
rick Campbell: Their Corres-
pondence (Gollancz) cover the
40 years from 1899 to 1939, so
they start when Shaw was 43
and known in England only as
a saucy pamphleteer and critic,
and when Mrs. Campbell was
34 and at the height of her fame
as a beautiful and brilliant
actress. They fade out in in-
difference when Shaw was 83,
had written “Man and Super-
man,” “Back to Methuselah,”
“St. Joan” and 20 other plays,
had been translated into a score
of languages, had become a liv-
ing force in world thought and
was going on to fresh successes;
while Mrs. Campbell was 74
and had retired from the stage,
where she had for many years
been a respected legend.
The letters start in the
ordinary way of two distin-
guished people discussing a
mutual interest in the theatre.
They rise to a crescendo in 1912
when Mrs. Campbell becomes
“Beatricissima” and “Stella
Stellarum” (20 times repeated)
and “glorious white-marble
lady.”
“Here I am,” Shaw says,
“caught up again, breathless,
with no foothold, at a dizzy
height, in an ecstasy which must
be delirious and presently end
in my falling headlong to de-
struction. And yet I am happy,
as madmen are. What does this
sound like from me, the super-
sane man? lam not otherwise
mad ; yet I am stark raving mad
in this matter unless you are
indeed and in truth an extra-
ordinary person, a genius, a
half-goddess, wonderfully lovely,
wonderfully tender and simply
sincere and pitiful and —oh for
the word: lam at last 4t a loss
for one —when you take me up
and say I can’t write those
two words: they can exist only
in my holiest memory now.”
A year later: “Oh, what a
will-less creature I am. I have
taken my farewell, gone back
for my last appearance, returned
for my positively last appear-
ance, and am madly going again
tomorrow for my last appearance
but 500,000,000,000,000,000.”
And he ends up: “I must now
go and read this to Charlotte.
My love affairs are her unfail-
ing amusement; all their tender-
ness recoils finally on herself.
Besides, I love an audience.”
He also breaks into poetry:
He’s mad! mad! mad!
He’s gone right off his chump,
He cleans his boots with strawberry
jam;
He thinks the world of my silly old
man
Who doesn’t value his plays a dam,
For they give her the blooming
hump, dear girls;
They give her the blooming hump!
Which sounds pretty awful,
coming from a great man. But
this doesn’t:
“I am all torn to bits ; you
don’t know what it is to me to
be forced to act artificially when
everything has been freshly
stirred in me. It gives me a sort
of angina pectoris: all the fibres
round my chest begin to sing
and stir and drag and pull in a
way that would make anyone else
wild, and makes me set my face
grimly If I could be human
and suffer with a suffering of my
own there would be some poetic
justice in it; but I can’t: I can
only feel the sufferings of others
with a pain that pity makes, and
with a fierce impatience of the
unreasonableness of it the
essential inhumanity of this
jealousy that I never seem able
to escape from this much
breaks out of me; I must say
it. Now I can go back doggedly
to work and write tragedies.”
And he ends with; “I throw
my desperate hands up to
heaven and ask why one cannot
make one beloved woman happy
without sacrificing another.”
Readers of Shaw who thought
he was all head and no heart
will, no doubt, be surprised at
the emotion in these letters;
others might tend to say that
they are insincere literary pre-
tences ; but why would they be
any less sincere than a bunch of
orchids? The average young
man courts his girl with a bunch
of orchids or a ticket to an opera
firstnight; Shaw courts Mrs.
Campbell with a verbosity which
produces a fat volume of letters.
All his verbosity did was to
bewilder Mrs. Campbell, who
says in one place: “Oh, dear
me —it’s too late to do anything
but accept and love you —but
“Want to bet?”
when you were quite a little boy
somebody ought to have said
‘hush’ just once.” But she re-
viewed the affair in exactly the
same way as he did. “If,” she
says, “you give me one kiss
and you can only kiss me if 1
say ‘kiss me’ and I will never
say ‘kiss me’ because I am a
respectable widow and I
wouldn’t let any man kiss me
unless I am sure of the wedding-
ring.”
Shaw evidently thought he
was a desperate young fellow,
but in this little matter the great
protagonist of the Life Force
was just as determined by his
tradition as Mrs. Campbell,
The letters peter out in 1938
in a disagreement as to their pub-
lication, to which Shaw had/
strong objections. “Gentlemen,”
he says, “don’t kiss and tell,” to
which Mrs. Campbell: “Well,
there is nothing left for me to
do but to hit you back with the
poker, holding it with both my
hands —having no respect for
your few remaining transparent
hairs —and to hit you flat dead
... .lam going to publish
what I like.” Shaw eventually"
agreed on condition that they
were held until after the deaths
of himself and Charlotte and
that any proceeds should be
used for the secondary educa-
tion of Mrs. Campbell’s great-
grandchildren.
F. S.
* ❖ ♦♦♦
“Venus Observed”
The Independent Theatre have
borrowed a magnificent telescope
from the Observatory for their
current observations of sundry
astral phenomena. It remained
the only thoroughly professional
object, animate or otherwise,
upon the stage. That is not to
say that the entertainment pro-
vided was not enjoyable.
Christopher Fry’s witty, frothy
lines, even when indifferently
delivered, are not easily stripped
of all enchantment.
The disappointing thing is that
the production should have been
better. The players were well
cast, well dressed and well made-
up. The characterisation is
stylised, thus reducing acting
demands to a minimum, although
“Venus Observed” is a play
which one could imagine being
magnificent in the hands of a
first-class company.
However, here, against a back-
ground of well-designed and
inexcusably poorly painted sets,
too many of the players lacked
basic grace either of speech or
movement. For instance, Eliza-
beth Ripley, in her interpreta-
tion of Rosabel Fleming, was a
convincing enough neurasthenic,
but her personality and posture
were so drab and joyless that
it was impossible to believe that
she had ever been, or would be,
loved by anyone, let alone have
had an exacting career, albeit an
unsuccessful one.
Marcel Wattel ogled his harem
with a certain polish, but found
himself unable to cope with
the demands of rapid speech.
Players who did appear at ease,
both with their parts, their stage
and with the play, were Helene
Jacoby, a delightful Jessie Dill;
Keith Goddard as Reedbeck;
and John Pooley, a wonderfully
odious Dominic.
Patricia Hill as Perpetua was
nearly good, but tended to com-
municate the strain of being
winsomely charming through a
long part, until her mannerisms
became wearisome,
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Adventures of Ginger
Meggs”
At the National Theatre, Mel-
bourne, Ginger Meggs is out
with his cobbers Tony the mon-
key, Pete the dog and Bennie
Bolter, and with the co-opera-
tion of all the school-kids, who
have been induced to play the
wag for the occasion, collecting
junk from suburban backyards
and selling it to secondhand
dealer Mactavish in order to
provide the local orphanage with
£5OOO to build a cricket-pitch,
a stadium and a playground.
Minnie Peters, Eddie Coogan
and Cuthbert Fitzhinge are
hovering jealously in the back-
ground; Officer Heggity is
shadowing the kids’ terror, Tiger
Kelly, who is getting and receiv-
ing black eyes ; while Mr. Meggs
is waiting at home to deal out
correction to his delinquent off-
spring and Mrs. Meggs is getting
ready to dry his tears with the
love of a doting mother,
Ray Lawler’s panto, based on
the “famous comic-strip created
by the late J. Bancks,” is theat-
rically clever, and, in its gaudy
clobber, character and scenery,
is as near the late J. Bancks as
the late J. Bancks was near
human nature ; and that, in its
simple line, wasn’t far off.
As Ginge, Mr, Lawler acts
and looks that hero almost to
perfection, Reg Gillam is a fear-
some Tiger Kelly, Graeme
Spicer is the pathetic Eddie and
Mr. and Mrs. Meggs come to
cartoon life in June Brown and
Bruce Crowl. An effective scene
is where the kids in their night-
shirts assemble in the woodshed
to swear a solemn oath that they
will follow Ginger to glory or
to death.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Ghost Train”
‘The Ghost Train” is once
more thundering through the
lonely station of Fal Vale on the
South Cornwall Joint Railway
at the National Theatre, Mel-
bourne, and Saul Hodgkin, the
stationmaster, is once more
curdling the blood of a dozen
stranded travellers with the story
of an accident that never hap-
pened.
Robert Eastgate, Reg Gillam,
Kathie Reid, Harry Starling and
others are doing the murky job
just as well as the company that
did it at the Athenaeum 20 years
ago, when the piece was a
startling innovation in the way
of thrillers.
♦♦♦ *x* *
Panto
Panto burst out in several
places in Melbourne during the
holidays. On the south side of
the Yarra, at the Greatest Show
on Earth, Alice, the 105-year-old
elephant, appeared as a fairy,
and monkeys, Shetland ponies,
clowns, the amazing Jpsse, Ger-
man trapeze-artist, scores of
infant ballerinas, Seyler Heylen
as a side-splitting Dame Maggie
Dooley and other oddments were
thrown together in a glorious
melange without destroying the
romance and beauty of the story
of the “Sleeping Beauty.”
At the Princess the deathless
Jenny Howard appeared for the
umpteenth time as Dick Whit-
tington and Nancy Rasmussen
as his/her sweetheart.
At the Tivoli Tommy Trinder
produced some of the comedy
as Buttons, Babs Mackinnon
played Prince Charming to
Gloria Dawn’s Cinderella, while
elegance was provided by a well-
disciplined kids’ ballet. Jim
Gerald, George Pearson and Joe
Lee as the Ugly Sisters provided
such a plenitude of laughs that
some of them could easily have
been spared to supplement the
show at the Princess, which
needed them.
Talkies
“Manon”
The Abbe Provost’s story has
been brought up-to-date in this
current French offering at
Sydney Savoy. Manon Lescaut
is a sexy little French miss
rescued from a collaborator’s
hair-cropping by the Maquis;
she more-or-less seduces her
guard and goes off with him to
Paris, where, when he can’t earn
enough by blackmarketing and
other rackets to keep her in
luxury, she takes in an occasional
lover or goes in for more general
prostitution.
Her brother, a smart young
racketeer, acts as a procurer in
most of these affairs, an interest
for which he is finally rewarded
when his sister’s young man
strangles him very efficiently
with a length of rope. The
young fellow beats it out or
Paris and Manon dices every-'
thing to go after him ; they stow
away on a ship smuggling Jewish
refugees to Palestine ; disembark
with them, and are making a
tortuous trek over deserts of
rock and sand when Manon
stops a bullet from a mob of
Arabs and expires very grace-
fully while protesting her love
for the young fellow.
There is, unfortunately, a note
of insincerity about most of the
film. It would seem that the
director, Henri-Georges Clouzot,
is a sentimentalist at heart
and a realist in the head, so that
there is a continual struggle be-
tween French naturalism and
something very close to Holly-
wood sweetness. M. Clouzot
gets his pictures well enough of
Paris and its racketeers, of the
refugees packed in the ship s
hold, and of many minor figures,
but his idyllic regard for his
main characters leads him often
into unmitigated sentimentality
and, every time sex rears its ugly
head, to drop a garland of
flowers over it.
Cecile Aubry, as the unin-
hibited Manon, and Michel
Auclair as her unhappy young
man both look their parts with-
out making much further contri-
bution to them.
++♦ ❖
“The Prisoner of Zencfa”
This film has been made
before, and, going by the latest
version at Sydney St. James, one
wonders why they troubled to
make it again. Stewart Granger
is the trout-fishing Englishman
who bears a remarkable resem-
blance to Rudolph the wine-
bibbing prince of Ruritania or
somewhere, and who finds him-
self doubling for Rudolph the
red-nosed ruler while that worthy
is drugged and imprisoned by
his rascally cousin.
Some fancy love-making with
the Princess Flavia and some
spectacular sword-play with the
suavely villainous James Mason
occupy most of the running-time
until the rightful ruler is rescued
and restored, and the English-
man farewells the beautiful
Flavia, and, his trout licence pre-
sumably expired, departs the
kingdom,
Louis Calhern, trying to look
serious behind a bunch of
whiskers, appears to enjoy him-
self as Count Zapt.


THE POINTED STICKS
AS we approached Piva, we
ran into the daily storm
and made our circuit in
drenching rain. Half
way through our crosswind leg
there was a sudden deafening
crash and a blinding flash, which
made Red jump nearly out of the
aircraft and all but side-slip us
into the jungle trees; but we
landed smoothly through the
downpour and hastened to our
revetment. We had no sooner
manoeuvred to a halt than John
May ling appeared in front of us
frantically signalling Red to
keep his motors running. Ray
Woolcott also appeared clawing
at our door, and I stumbled to
admit him.
“What’s up?” *1 shouted at
him.
“Bennetts wants you to go up
the Luluai to look for Martin
and Jim Vyner. They’re over-
due. He and Asford are coming.
They’ve planned out a search.”
He handed me a map heavily
scored and annotated.
Following his pointing finger,
I Saw two Ansons warming-up
in near-by revetments, Bennetts
bolt-upright in one, his face
lather of sweat. The Army
captain we were carrying, utterly
bewildered by the confusion,
hustled his boong back to the
door, waited for me to lower the
ladder, nervously grinned fare-
well as he climbed down, and
hurried away, obviously pleased
to be out of the commotion. Red
was reading his petrol-gauge with
John Mayling looking on.
“What’s wrong with every-
one?” I called to Ray.
“All the Beauforts are u.s.,
and most of the drongoes are
down at the beach. There’re
only two Ansons serviceable.
Bennetts thought you’d better
go, seeing you were on the job.
Don’t worry about your
Christmas dinner,” Ray assured
me. “You won’t miss it. They’re
keeping it hot for you.”
As I fell to studying the map
I fervently hoped that I wouldn’t
miss my Christmas dinner, which
I had been subconsciously antici-
pating all the morning; but,
despite Ray’s assurance, I was
destined to miss it, as he was
too; and I believe it was a very
good dinner, reminiscent of the
York Logan Eighteen spreads,
which I often nostalgically
remembered as J sat down in
our mess to m. and v. with
dehydrated potatoes and carrots
and tinned cabbage, doughy
bread and tropical-spread,
atebrin, salt and vitamin tablets,
gooey dessert and, on special
occasions. Army biscuits.
TIED readjusted his earphones
as John Mayling sat down
beside him, and Ray sprawled
into the navigator’s seat.
“What’s the hold-up?” asked
Red, through the intercom.
“Bennetts is probably on his
third round of cockpit-drill,”
said John.
“I’ve only got a couple of
hours’ petrol,” growled Red, “I
hope he doesn’t take that long.
Do you have all the dope, Bert?”
“Yes,” X answered. “Martin
and Jim are down somewhere in
the Luluai. I have their probable
tracks. They were out in a
Wirraway dropping A.C.F.
hampers to forward A. 1.8., and
they hadn’t enough juice to last
till now. The search is accord-
ing to the Grouper’s orders —
first a parallel track search along
the Jaba and down the Luluai,
then according to Bennetts’
instructions. A couple of
Boomerangs are out now. Two-
thousand for a start.” I gave
him an approximate course to
set from a pin-point and began
more closely to study my papers.
The storm had swiftly passed
by, and the sun was shining
fiercely on the countless rivulets
hurrying past us. Mt. Bagana,
belching its perpetual smoke,
loomed out of the fast-clearing
mists.
“Hang him!” Red grumbled.
“We’ll be oiled-up and fried
before he’s ready. I’ll taxi
down ; and that might hurry him
up. Who’s with him?”
“Jack Oliffe,” said Ray, “And
Aub Parnell and Shard are with
Asford. Nobody heard a word
from Vyner and Martin since
they left this morning, so they’ll
have had it anywhere, any time.”
Red taxied to the end of the
strip and resigned himself to a
long wait. However, we hadn’t
long to wait for Bennetts, but
when he turned up he came in a
most unexpected condition, look-
ing, in his parachute-harness
, and earphones, with his
inevitable hessian parcel, like
something turned loose from
Mars, snorting like a grampus
and perspiring like a fat fnan in
a sweat-box, for he had run, just
as he was when he had climbed
out of the Anson seat, earphones
and all, as fast as he could, about
a quarter of a mile along the
taxiway to where we stood idling.
“Get a gander at Bennetts,”
called Ray, as he saw this appari-
tion approaching. “Looks as if
he’s decided to leave his kite
behind and thinks he’ll be safer
without it!”
“The Japs would surrender
unconditionally if they saw that
coming,” grunted Red.
Bennetts came clutching
drunkenly at our door, so I
offered him sanctuary, and he
climbed in and stumbled forward
towards Red, almost breaking
his neck over the front spar, and
began to shout loudly enough
for his family at home to hear,
his mouth working foolishly
between his words as if he had
the ague.
“Red,” he shouted, bombard-
ing Red at close range with a
hail of foamy saliva, “you’ll have
to go alone. Asford and I have
had an accident.”
And, indeed, they had had
an accident; while they were
taxiing towards us, Bennetts
leading, Bennetts had suddenly
stopped dead, perhaps to test his
brakes, and Asford had chewed-
up Bennetts’s tail-assembly with
his port airscrew.
With much advice, at which
Red grunted noncommittally,
Bennetts gradually backed out of
the aircraft just as Shard and
Asford tumbled aboard.
“Let’s get out of this crazy
place,” called Red. “Bert, ask
the tower if we can take off?”
and he revved his starboard
motor, catching the grotesque
form of Bennetts full force in
the back with its slipstream and
hurrying it at a gallop back to
its accident.
/"'LIMBING away from the
strip and turning towards
the south, we could see that, as
far as visibility went, our task
would be easy, for there was not
a cloud in the sky in the direc-
tion of the Luluai. We passed
over our own forward positions
at two-thousand feet, our four
passengers already keenly
scrutinising the scenery beneath
us for signs of a prang; then
we turned on to a course on
what we guessed was the first
track of the missing men.
After the soaking they had
had only a few minutes before,
the native gardens showed up
bright green against the frowning
olive of the jungle. This part of
Bougainville was dotted with
open patches, apparently cleared
laboriously years before and
painstakingly kept cleared by the
boongs, who had cultivated them
and grown sweet-potato, taro
and other plants suitable to the
climate ; and in many places the
Japs had taken complete
Crash-landing, marching
back to their island-base,
they wondered who Was
killing-off their stretcher-
cases at night. Was it so
that they might move
faster? A novelette of
war in the air, on the
ground, of mystery and
midnight-horror
by
BERNARD HARRIS
possession of these gardens,
which they continued to cultivate
for their own food, often leaving
the natives to go on short
rations ; but under Jap super-
vision the gardens began to look
frowsy about the edges, as if
the jungle were creeping in on
them, and bedraggled in the
middle, as if they were
inadequately nurtured by the
invaders.
On we chugged at our 105
knots, a sitting shot for any good
gunner among the enemy below.
But we were in no danger, for
we had proved that for some
reason the Ansons were never
fired at, perhaps because they
were harmless enough. The Japs
knew they never dropped any-
thing more lethal than mail and
propaganda leaflets. The war,
anyhow, was in its last year, and
the Japs on Bougainville, almost
isolated as they were from their
active northern bases, may have
been content to live and let live
as far as Ansons were concerned.
If every gun on the island had
opened up on us, we could not
have done much better than we
were doing, for the Anson was
not a fast climber; she was not
a master of evasive action; and
even the manufacturer sternly
warned against driving her faster
and one- hundred -and - eighty
miles an hour. Above two-
hundred miles an hour she just
simply began to tear apart, wood
a'nd fabric and metal and all.
But, floating inquisitively along
within our speed-limit, we felt as
safe as on our native heath.
As we entered the Luluai
Valley, a wild, jagged gorge,
spirals of steam ascended like
smoke from a myriad sources
amid the wet leaves, at times
making it difficult to make out
clearly the terrain below.
Occasionally we burst through a
stray piece of low-drifting cloud.
All eyes looked searchingly down
on the shadow-specked jungle,
where a thousand aircraft might
crash without leaving a dis-
cernible mark, and where we
might search till Doomsday with-
out finding Martin’s where-
abouts. From the beginning I
had considered it most unlikely
that even three aircraft could
locate the prang on a single
search which, to say the least of
it, was rather haphazard, but for
one aircraft carrying half its
petrol-load the job was utterly
fantastic. There was just a
chance that we would at least
pick up some information about
the. enemy, even if we failed in
the purpose of our mission.
And discover some informa-
tion about the enemy we did:
namely that, on the east coast
near where the Luluai joins the
sea, the Japs had installed a light
ack-ack battery. Over the sea
at a thousand feet, after we
turned on to a reciprocal track to
push back through the valley, a
burst of fire from directly below
caught us. One explosive bullet
ripped into our starboard nacelle
and killed the starboard motor
instantly. Aggie dropped her
wing and tottered as if she was
about to stall; but Red smartly
picked and trimmed her nicely.
“Boys,” called Red, almost
apologetically—and I could see
as I leaned forward, looking
round the radio, that he was very
red-faced and grinning from ear
to ear —“it’s Sydney or the bush.”
And indeed it was, for even
as I instinctively switched on my
transmitter and began to contact
base on C.W., our port motor,
which apparently had not
escaped undamaged, belched
back a cloud of black smoke as
she momentarily faltered.
“It’s our oil,” yelled Red. I
pounded away at the Morse key.
Our aircraft had no I.F.F. and
my only means of sending an
S.O.S. was by C.W.
"DEHIND us was “Sydney,” the
™ whole east coast, where we
could probably make a compara-
tively safe landing on a beach
or the water or perhaps some
clearing ; but that area was thick
with enemy troops who, if Dame
Rumor could be given credence,
would hospitably take us to
Kahili, there to question us
thoroughly before ceremoniously
beheading us.
Before us lay “the bush,” an
almost unbroken tangle of wild,
precipitous, most uninviting
jungle, rising up well above our
own thousand feet, the summit
of which, with our one sick
motor, we had scarcely a chance
in a million of negotiating; we
must surely be compelled to make'
a landing as best we could on the
most suitable of the myriad
impossible landing-places to
hand. But the bush had its bright
side. If we could fly far enough
up the valley before our motor
failed and if we survived the
eventual landing, we might be
comparatively safe from capture
by an enemy who was reputed
not to travel far into the hills
except in large numbers because
he was scared —and pardonably
so —of the hill-natives, who dis-
liked the Jap on principle, and
whose fathers had been, even if
they themselves were not, fierce
headhunters. Once safely on the
ground, we had a chance of
meeting up with an A.I.B. party
or, failing that, of walking
unaided back to base.
Anyhow, whichever way we
went, our motor would not last
long. Turning back would prob-
ably mean decapitation by the
Japs; going on would possibly
mean incineration on the tree-
tops. On the face of it, which-
ever way we chose, we had no
chance of landing our aircraft
inside our own territory.
“Well,” Red asked, this time
in earnest tones, as Base
answered my call, “which is it
to be, Sydney or the bush?”
There was no hesitation and
no 4 0U bt about the unanimity
of the choice; so Red held his
course, directly towards the
lowering hills.
“Bert,” called Red, in. a very
quiet, even voice. “You have
your parachute, and we have
enough height for it. Do you
want to make a jump for it?”
“Not I,” I replied without
hesitation, for I certainly had no
desire to be wandering about the
scrub alone on the enemy’s front
doorstep. “I’ll stay with you.”
“Well,” said Red, “there’s my
parachute and Bert’s. , There’s
Farland’s and his boong’s two
packs, but they carried their
harnesses out. Why didn’t you
four silly cows bring your ’chutes
with you? Two of you can
jump the old way, and the other
two can hang on to the pack-
handles with your fingers and
pull the release with your teeth.
Who wants to jump?”
Nobody did ; but Ray Wool-
cott came up with something
which I hadn’t thought of.
“Red,” he said, “if it would
lighten your load, and give the
others a chance, I’ll cast my
fourteen stone into space.”
“And I, too,” said John
Mayling, who was also no light-
weight.
“That’s not the point,” said
Red. “We won’t get over the
rise, that’s certain. Fourteen
stone less might take us an extra
few hundred yards, and perhaps
no further at all if this motor
suddenly peters out. Does any-
body want to jump?”
“I’ll stay,” said Woolcott, and
that was that. Base had received
a short account of our predica-
ment and my position-report,
and were busy D/F’ing me.
“I’ll get as far as I can,” said
Red. “Each look out for a good
safe spot, behind the spars or
somewhere, and be ready to get
set when I give the word.”
“What a piece of bad luck!”
said Shard, who sat on a spar,
nervously clutching the side of
the radio-table.
“Bad luck be beggared,” I
retorted as I stood on my key.
“One should have known better
than to fly with the lot of you.
It strikes me, your whole war
effort has been dissipated by
pranging all over the Pacific.”
“Now, Bert,” said Red,
“remember, last time we
pranged, the crew of the aircraft
was wiped out. That may be a
habit, too, so say a little prayer,
and one for me, too, for we are
the crew of this old coffin.”
■pROM our point of view, our
-*■ predicament may have
arisen from bad luck, but from
the Japs’ view it was from
design. You see, many a time,
perhaps, an aircraft had flown
over that nest without molesta-
tion because it was just not in
the right position or attitude.
The Japs did not want to waste
ammunition or give their posi-
tions away, so they waited for a
sitting shot, such as we must have
presented to them, so that they
could have a reasonable chance
of success in their shooting.
Many a chap shot down in the
later stages of the Pacific war
could perhaps sing a lay about
this Jap habit of lulling airmen
into a false sense of security by
simply doing nothing and then,
the airman’s vigilance dormant,
and his plane in the right posi-
tion, letting a fatal shell loose at
him. There was a Jap battery
at Wewak, known as Dead-eye
Dick, which accounted for at
least one Doug, in this fashion.
In their raids on Rabaul, some
of the R.N.Z.A.F. Corsairs grew
careless, and one chap made a
low run over an area from which
apparently no ack-ack had
previously emanated, to be
stopped in his tracks and dashed
to death by a veritable spray of
shot. Nothing daunted, a
Mitchell ran practically over the


You CAN take it with you!
L
m
m
f
vw
W
FELLS CLOSE TO THE GROUND
AND CROSS-CUTS ON THE SPOT
• W.
j:
BE-BO ONE MAN CHAIN SAW
Dependable 5 b.h.p. engine packs the power you need to fell and cross-cut
hard Australian timbers all day long. This machine is so light, only 38 lbs.,
that it becomes part of you . . . goes anywhere you can go to cut the timber
you want, wherever it grows. You can buy for cash or on terms and you can
get a machine straight away if you place your order promptly.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
_ij D i nine rAUPSIE PHONE* LF 4209 - TELEGRAMS; MOBILCO, SYDNEY
BRANCHES * . . ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
AGENTS -----
In steep, rough, dense country
MOBILCO CHAIN SAW can be carried
and operated without effort.
MOBILCO
same track at practically the
same height, searching for its
comrade; the battery opened up
again, and the crew of the
Mitchell was wiped out.
Many pilots pried, unneces-
sarily and contrary to orders,
into dangerous places and were
bitten ; and the tragedy was that
they seldom lived to be twice shy.
The port motor seemed to be
behaving excellently, Red was
managing to gain a little height
and it seemed that we might
climb over the summit of the
pass after all when Red
suddenly said: “My oil-
pressure’s showing zero, one 11
seize any minute. I’m going to
put her down on the first likely
place while I still have a bit of
power. Get your places, set
yourselves firm, and pray. See
you later. So long and good
luck.” t J . .
The four passengers obediently
went to their places, John
Mayling and Ray Woolcott
behind the front spar, and Shard
and Asford behind the rear spar.
Asford had not spoken a word
since our mishap, and I could
not but admire his air of uncon-
cerned hauteur as he now sat on
the floor, chewing gum.
This manoeuvre left Red and
me in sole possession of the
intercom.
“Bert,” Red asked, “are you
there?”
“Yes, Red,” I said, experi-
encing a sudden embarrassment,
in feeling a sense of intimacy
between Red and me. “I’m
listening out in case Base has
something for us. They have
D/F’d us often but not very
effectively, about class-three, I’d
imagine, because of the interven-
ing mountains. Green and
Emiray have also been on to us.
However, my pin-point is better
.than the bearings. I know pre-
cisely the spot we’re over. Tell
me exactly when you’re about to
go in and I’ll down my key.”
My verbosity sprang from the
same nervousness, I imagine,
which kept my fingers constantly
moving to the receiyer-tuning
dial.
“Right, Bert” Red replied.
“Now, do you think I should put
down right in the valley or up
the slope a bit? There doesn’t
seem much to choose between
them as far as first-class strips
go, does there?”
“Get as high as you can up the
hill, I’d say. Red,” I advised
him. “There’ll be native trouble
in the valley, and there we’d be
likely to fall into the middle of
a Jap camp.”
Ahead of us, and to the left,
high up the hillside, appeared a
number of brown patches on the
landscape which indicated that
there no jungle grew.
“Try one of the clear spaces
on our left, Red,” I called, and
he gingerly eased her towards
his good motor and headed
towards the first of the patches.
It looked, from our height, a
reasonable landing-field for an
Anson, being quite large, free of
trees and apparently reasonably
level for a belly-landing. We
passed over it. The area might
well have been creased with deep
gullies which our eyes could not
make out. Had we had on board
a camera, a developing- and
printing-outfit and a photo-
grapher, we could have made a
couple of runs over the field,
taken some shots, developed the
film, printed it and by a stereo-
scopic process determined the
position and depth of the de-
pressions. That would have been
the airman-like method, accord-
ing to the good book of handling
the situation ; but, unfortunately,
our equipment was deficient and
our time in the air was drawing
to a close.
“The next one it is,” said Red,
as he made for a similar patch
ahead. “I’ll edge her in and land
her, if it looks good close up ;
and if it doesn’t I’ll just have to
do what I can and hope for the
best; but it’s a pity they hadn’t
thought of putting skyhooks in
this part of the world. Then we
could hang ourselves up while
we got out and had a look at our
motors.”
“You.forget, Red, that an air-
craft anchored on a skyhook
would be a sitting shot indeed.
I dare say Air Board has already
carefully considered the matter
and has a huge screed about it
in its vaults.”
T DID not feel particularly
happy as Red descended.
Once down low the Anson would
never rise again. So it was now
neck or nothing, and immediately
I let Base know' the exact
locality of our proposed landing,
bade them au revoir for the lot
of us, clipped down my key in
perhaps a superfluous gesture,
and took up a position behind
the wireless-operator’s seat. Red
naturally had to stay in his seat,
but he was firmly belted in and
could see' to take other pre-
cautions, such as fixing his feet
firmly against the instrument-
panel if circumstances demanded
that.
For me to remain in my seat
would be suicidal. I could not
see ahead and therefore could
not prepare myself for a jolt,
and, when one came, I might
either have a headful of limiter-
valve and a chestful of 8.F.0.,
or find myself in little slivers
inside the radio. I braced myself
against the back of the seat, pray-
ing fervently that no broken
branch would come up through
our all all - too - penetrable
fuselage and skewer me through
the kidneys.
I still wore my earphones to
keep in touch with Red if neces-
sary, but I felt strangely lonely
and cut off from the world
because the clipping-down of my
key had automatically cut out
my receiver. Suddenly it
occurred to me that I had not
wound in my trailing aerial, and
I made an instinctive move to-
wards it before I realised that
since the whole aircraft was
about to be written off, the price
of this small item would scarcely
be docked from my pay.
As we descended on our
chosen landing-ground I could
see that we were in for a proper
shaking. The terrain looked
more rugged with every yard as
we approached. We could not
climb, we could not go back,
and if we pulled over our picked
spot we would put down on
jungle-top, Which at close-
quarters was unbelievably
impossible. Great boulders, ugly
ridges and other fierce obstacles
fairly bristled at our nose from
our landing-patch ; but Red held
his aircraft in a. steady descent,
flying her just above her stalling-
speed, handling her as if she
were in the best of health and
about to land on a bowling-
green. But he knew better than
I what lay ahead, and he called
out:
“Hell, Bert, she’s rough! I
only hope Aggie likes it that
way.”
Just before we passed over the
trees fringing the clearing he
edged her nose up until I feared
she would stall and turn-
turtle in; but when it seemed
that she was almost stationary
in mid-air, right over the fringe,
he let her head go for what
seemed an eternity, and checked
sharply very close to the ground
so that she smacked the earth
flat on her belly in a movement
as mucfi vertical as horizontal,
ripped off part of both main-
planes, dashed her nose into a
rock-ledge and flung her tail
right over her head to slide on
her back, tail-first, in a fury of
dust and pebbles down a steep
slope.
II
NOBODY else could find a
clothes-line with a string of
metal beads on the end of it in
that scrub. Even if they had
seen the kite blown from the end
of it, a whole legion might search
there interminably without find-
ing it unless I opened my hand
and showed the two bits of paper
I had clutched there; an action
I should not be likely to make,
for, since the beads belonged to
my grandmother and the clothes-
line had fallen out of Red’s
watch-pocket, I had to find them
myself or I should have one
audio-amplifier docked from my
pay each month for the duration
oj: twelve valves thereafter.
But suddenly out of the mist
burst a huge brown bear, glaring
greedily at my right hand, and
I knew it had come to devour
my information so that I would
become insolvent; therefore, I
tightened my grip on the
treasure, and, as the beast hugged
me crushingly, I clutched still
harder until I could feel the
paper go solid under the pressure
of my fingers.
“Let go, you silly old cow,”
growled the bear fiercely as it
struck cruelly at my right hand,
“Let go, or I’ll have to cut your
arm off.”
Suddenly, just as the heavy
mist rapidly rolled away, the
bear stood upright, appeared to
salute and nimbly skipped out
of sight behind Red, who must
have been there all the time, and
was for all the world like a fiery-
haired Viking as he stood over
me, blood all over him, aircraft
hatchet in hand, trying to prise
loose my desperate grip of a
tubular member of the radio-
stand.
“Let go,” Red repeated
savagely, and I thought for a
moment he was about tp wield
the axe, “Do you want to bum
alive?”
I let go and bounded to my
feet, immediately feeling as if an
inferno was indeed searing the
inside of my skull; but I had no
time to wonder at this before I
was propelled through a gaping
hole in the fuselage, which had
all the appearances of being
hacked-at round the edges ; and
I would have fallen on my face
on the ground had a strong hand
not supported me, thrust me
bodily across a gully and
trundled me for what seemed a
league to where Ray and Perce
Asford knelt over a bundle on
the ground.
Red sat me firmly down on a
rock, but X forced my way to a
standing position, feeling sud-
denly fit, as Woolcott stood up
and revealed the prone, perhaps
lifeless form of John May ling.
“Take it easy, Bert,” said Red,
in the nearest approach to a
soothing tone I had yet heard
him use. “Everything in its turn.
He’s got a sore head, but he
seems all right.”
“Where’s Shard?” I asked,
instinctively turning round to
see him, also, lying still, but with
his pain-distorted face moving
as if he were conscious.
“A few r broken bones,” said
Red shortly. “Jack, you and
Asford make them comfortable,
while Bert and I do the salvag-
ing. How do you feel, Bert?”
'THE dust was still heavy in the
air about the wreck as we
returned to it, showing that only
a very short time had elapsed
since the prang. The whole area
reeked of petrol-fumes, which
set me marvelling that we had
not caught fire, for the manner
of our landing must have sent
up many a spark from the
contact of our metal parts on
the rocks. The Anson was
damaged much more than I had
expected, and it seemed almost
miraculous that we had been
tossed about inside her as she
was being mangled and yet had
so few injuries among the six
of us.
“We really should be going
like scalded cats for hiding at
this minute,” said Red as we
crawled into the wreck, “but
Shard seems so broken about
that we’ll have to spend some
time patching him up before we
move. But it’s ten-quid to a
rusty blade that we are off the
beaten track, and if someone saw
us come down they’ll take a long
time to get here, don’t you
think?”
“But we’d better do what we
have to do and make tracks as
quickly as we can,” I cautioned.
Red hacked out the clock as
I collected his gear and mine,
the four parachute-packs and
the emergency rations.
“Always wanted one of these
things,” said Red, holding up the
clock. “They re the be
keepers I know. l->° y° l
compass?” .
“No,” I answered, se g
about to sink his axe into tne
mounting of the pilotscornp®.
T have a couple oi p
passes. You take me
and my book or maps
the code-book. You . v “
gun, waterbottle and e i •
So have I. i he , ° t uj ne
apparently brougn tP
There s nothing else i P vceol
the trouble ot carry • e
those Signals Dis is
out the ( b P rp ”
there any tit ■
Red did so, ail P .JJ
a few odds and e . two
come in handy,
trips each to carry ,
temporary camp, P ,
harnesses first, fo first-aid
Asford to use m their first aid
ministrations. . .
some tranches, st ™s
these ana t ' fittings
from the lactate
fashioned ,S° t w^UnsensiSle
which we . .
Mayhng and Shard, who by tms
time was sp we
fr cm ea . Bpacked ß packe d
m ended to carf y " hu J. packs
m 0 ... u*a fixed strans to
on whi
At .pur shoulders her? „
W- ill J
asked Asford.
N ’ t the DOOr Qld-
te I o * would
nossv ”
be ad g P y
was w ith a sinking feeling
1 that? paC k on back, I
shou } dered my end of John May-
ling > s stre tcher and turned my
back on the old crate, which,
even - n k er battered condition,
gtm seemed to pro mise safety
and friendliness. We walked
north . west f or perhaps three-
hundred yards before striking the
((Continued on next page)


was scattered and spindly.
In about another fifty yards we
came up to a solid wall of jungle.
But, so that we would leave as
little trace as possible of our
means of egress from the clear-
ing, we pushed a way for a few
yards through the tangled under-
growth ; then Red hacked a six-
foot square reasonably clear, and
there we carried the stretchers
and laid them side by side.
We spent some minutes sealing
ourselves in by replacing the
scrub we had broken through.
Then we sat down to have a
blow and take counsel.
“Well,” said Ray Woolcott
brightly, “to open up the dis-
cussion I should like to take this
opportunity of wishing all
present a Merry Christmas.”
“And a Happy New Year, too,
I hope,” said Asford in his
supercilious voice, which some-
how seemed much in keeping
with our predicament.
“I have a faint recollection,”
I said, “that we came out to look
for Martin and Jim. I hope
they are having at least as happy
a Christmas as we are.”
“They’re probably back at
Piva. how having Christmas
turkey,” Woolcott said,
“Oh, how I long for Piva!”
I exclaimed. “With a big
plateful of m. and v. and de-
hydrated potatoes for tea.”
“Give me the bush, rather.”
said Red, “where a bloke might
starve but would never rot his
entrails. Now, what are we to
do?”
I said: “It wquld be silly for
us to go on hacking our way.
We’re as safe here as we would
be a hundred yards along a
hacked trail. I say we stay right
here and send someone out to
find a track out of this locality
—something we can travel easily
and quickly; preferably away
from the coast, but if not, then
in any direction. Then, having
covered some miles, we’ll be
safer and have time to think or
eat our heads off, perhaps.”
For myself, I had done enough
scrub-cutting a week before
when Jim Crowe and I, for
exercise, set off through the most
impenetrable bush we could find
near Piva and labored like slaves
with big jungle-knives for two
hours and got practically
nowhere. I much preferred a
native trail td walk on, or, where
possible, a cement footpath.
“I propose you be the boss,
Bert,” said Red. “You’re the
oldest; and you’re not such a
goat as most of us.”
“But,” I protested, overawed
by the suggestion, “all of you
have had this experience before.
I’ve never been lost except in the
Botanical Gardens in Sydney.”
“You’re ancient,” said Ray
Woolcott inexorably, “and so
you must be wise.”
“Lead on,” said Asford,
“Yes, Bert,” came in a weak
voice from Shard’s stretcher, and
John Mayling groaned as if he,
too, would cast his vote.
“Then,” I said, “it’s on your
own heads. We vote on every-
thing important. And if any of
my ideas seem bad let me know.”
“That we will,” said Wool-
cott, “but right now you give the
orders and don’t let’s waste
time.”
“Right,” I said. “For a start
we’ll toss to see who does the
scouting.”
I won the toss.
TTAVING arranged that in any
dire emergency I would dis-
charge my revolver, I crawled
back along our tunnel, stepped
into the open and rearranged
shrubbery at the opening. I
ma'de such a good job of it that
I feared I might never find it
again, so I set three stones in a
way calculated to be informative
to me but of no significance to
anyone else.
The shock of the crash and
realisation of the catastrophe
was wearing off, and for the
first time I became aware of the
birds, many species of which
could be heard and seen in great
numbers. This was something
of the tropics quite strange to
me, for never before had I sensed
much bird-life in those climes.
The fact was that most of our
strips were located in areas
which had had severe punish-
ment by bomb and shell, which
had blasted away most of the
shrubbery, leaving perhaps only
a few large tree- and palm-trunks
whose tops had snapped twenty
or thirty feet from the ground.
Even months afterwards, where
much of the herbage had been
replaced by new life, the birds
had not returned.
Sometimes at Piva one would
hear strange birdlike cries,
which may have come from rep-
tiles or insects. Creep about
and search as you might, no
bird could be seen. I remember
two willy-wagtails at Milne Bay
which fascinated me for an
hour. The only creatures, I be-
lieve, which appeared to thrive
on the bombing were the mos-
quitoes, which, apparently not
content with the ooze and slime
which in dense jungle acted as
underfelt for the thick pile of
decaying leaves and fronds and
the stagnant pools which were
kept continuously full by the
never-failing rain and the in-
ability of the sun to penetrate
their leafy roofs, prayed inces-
santly for the bombs which
would provide them with water-
filled craters for unrestricted
breeding.
As soon as my eyes became
accustomed to the three-o’clock
sunlight I set off to the right,
through the sparsely-timbered
clearing fringe, which was so
stony and contained such a small
amount of loose soil that in
other parts of the world it would
scarcely have grown couch-
grass. I was looking for
an opening in the scrub which
might indicate the beginnings of
a track.
We had landed at 1423 pre-
cisely—my watch and Red’s had
stopped then. When I left the
party the aircraft clock showed
1504. We had, considering our
overall physical condition, done
a lot in a short time. But now,
as I walked, I began to feel stiff-
ness and painful twinges. My
back ached, my right hip seemed
to crumple-up every fourth
step, my shoulders sought ease by
sagging forward, my knee-joints
creaked and every iodine-painted
cut and abrasion throbbed. This
awakened in me strange sensa-
tions of pity for Red, who, as I
left, had begun to minister to his
wounds with iodine and sulpha-
nilimide powder.
I had walked perhaps half a
mile without finding anything
which faintly resembled a track.
Judging that I was on the wes-
tern side of thp clearing, I
had moved to the edge of the
timber to verify my estimation
with a compass when I sighted
the Anson.
A human being was standing
near her. It was a boong, or a
very dark Jap in a loin-cloth.
Falling flat in a clump of small
scrub I looked hastily behind
me ; and, gun in hand, watched
the aircraft.
TPHERE were three persons
fossicking among the ruins
of the aircraft, which was about
a quarter of a mile from me,
one of them with what appeared
to be a large bow slung from his
neck. Unless they made a move
in my direction I considered my
best course was to remain where
I was, watching. If they were
boongs there was every chance,
seeing that we were on the very
hearth of the enemy, that they
would be unfriendly, and it was
possible that enemy troops were
near by.
Boongs alone, friendly or un-
friendly, we might very well deal
with ; the possibility that boongs
might be in close contact with
the Japs made it imperative that,
for the time being at least, until
we could be sure of their friend-
ship and help, we must as far
as possible hide from them. The
strangers, as they picked about
the ruins, reminded me of vul-
tures attracted from afar by
carrion.
If they were Japs, then, un-
less my guess was wrong, we
were for it.
After observing for about
fifteen minutes I leaned to the
opinion that they were in no
way surprised to find no bodies
strewn about and not a whit
interested in searching for the
plane’s crew. They seemed
wholly and industriously ab-
sorbed in reefing off pieces of
ths airframe, which they stacked
in a tidy heap near where the
tail-plane lay.
It was a safe guess, then, that
they were boongs, as I had at
first thought, and that they had
seen us come down and waited
for us to leave the plane before
beginning their strange salvag-
ing operation, or that they had
come by chance upon the wreck,
unaware that it had so recently
happened, or that they had
known we had come down and
had raced to the scene, not to
render us aid, but to gather
something useful from the
wreckage.
I could not get much closer to
them without exposing myself in
the open clearing ; but I could,
and did, fall back on to the
fringe and, making sure to check
regularly on them, continue
working my way round the
jungle wall, so that I might, be-
fore they used it to return by,
locate the trail by which they
had come.
In this way I came upon a
beaten track leaving the clearing
towards the north-west, so I hid
near it in such a position that I
had the aircraft under observa-
tion but would be clear of any
probable track the boongs might
take when leaving.
The boongs at last wrapped up
three bundles of the tubular
frame-pieces. Each shouldered
a bundle and walked in single-
file towards the track, revealing
themselves as they approached
as three small boongs, very
happy in their discovery of
treasure. As soon as their excited
chatter had faded down the
jungle trail I continued my cir-
cuit of the clearing, hurriedly,
but with an eye for another
track, and I had almost reached
my friends’ retreat when, at the
same instant, I spied a track
and heard the droning of a
plane engine suddenly throw its
sound, as it often does, to my
hearing, as it topped one of the
valley spurs.
Whether I had been so pre-
occupied with ground affairs
that I had not registered its dis-
tant sound, or whether the
sound, as it often seems to do
in mountainous country, had
dammed up behind some topo-
graphical or atmospheric barrier,
to overflow suddenly and burst
through in my direction, the fact
was that, as I looked up, I
caught a glimpse of a Beaufort
at about two thousand feet,
some mile beyond the far side
of the clearing; and as I
waited she turned out of sight
behind the tree-tops and, less
than a minute later, came directly
over my head.
I knew it was Bennetts, of
whom I had never been so fond
as I was at that moment. I
would not presume to boast
that, from the ground, I could
identify the veteran pilot from
the beginner in straight and level
flight over my head; but I
thought I’d recognise Bennetts’s
piloting anywhere, in any attitude
or manoeuvre, at any height. His
natural watchfulness and care,
his attention to detail, his superb
judgment and his magnificent
air-sense had made him the best
Beaufort pilot I have ever
known.
The aircraft had scarcely
passed before I had run to where
my three stones stood winking
at me and called softly:
“Red, Jack, Perce. Come
out!”
Red was just inside the jungle
screen. His head popped out
immediately and he asked:
“Was that a Doug, or a Beau-
fort?”
“Bennetts,” I replied. “And
he’ll be sure to have the sense
to drop on this side, where he
knows we would make for, be-
cause it’s the spot where the
scrub is nearest the aircraft.
We’ll pounce on whatever he
drops, and then go like scalded
cats down the track not fifty
yards away and travel as far as
we can before dark.”
I related my recent experi-
ences as we waited.
TjOW glad I was, at 2200 that
hot Christmas night, to
spread my aching frame for
slumber in an Eden-like glade
under a tropic moon ; and how
I thanked Bennetts for the
ground-sheet and blanket upon
which I lay. For Bennetts had
decided that if we must get lost
we should do it in style. The
“storpedo” he had dropped con-
tained, beside necessary things
such as food, ammunition, medi-
cines, bandages and arms (in-
cluding a tommy-gun), luxuries
such as ground-sheets, mosquito-
nets, blankets, tobacco, matches,
reading-matter and, to beat
everything, a great A.C.F. par-
cel containing the biggest mil-
dewed Christmas cake I have
ever seen. Among the medicines
was a large bottle of O.P. rum,
with this written in Bennetts’s
own prematurely-aged handwrit-
ing:
“Have a good holiday. You
know where to find Johnson,
and he knows where to find
you.”
It was certain that by now
Johnson and every A. 1.8. party
on the island knew where we
had landed. Anybody could
guess the direction we would as
far as possible travel. We had
carried with us as much as we
could, so that for the time being
at least, until some supplies
were used, the addition of sur-
cingle and leading-strap would
have made each of us look
exactly like a pack-horse.
Equipped like a general-store,
we could, at rest, be as com-
fortable as a star-boarder at
the Hotel Australia. We travelled
for two daylight hours in order
to put as much distance as pos-
sible between the wreck and us.
But before we pulled up at dark
to make camp we were all-in
from the labor of bearing our
burdens along the rough trail,
which at times was overgrown
and difficult to negotiate.
Throughout the painful three-
mile journey each man had
taken his turn at walking with
a ready tommy-gun fifty yards
in advance of the other stagger-
ing bipeds, who, perspiration-
covered and bandaged, dirty,
scratched and bloody, looked
like escapees from a mincing-
machine —particularly the chap
whose turn it was to be in the
middle, because he had to bear
both the head of one stretcher
and the foot of the other, and
you may be sure he counted the
seconds in the five-minute stretch
he had each time to endure there.
But a wash and a meal in
our secluded glade had worked
wonders with our exhaustion, so
much so that, having done all
we could for the still-unconscious
Mayling and the now-delirious
Shard, we sat yarning in the
moonlight before turning in.
Although I was so fatigued
and aching and my couch was
such a soft one, I could not find
sleep; and, after tossing about
for more than an hour, tor-
mented by what seemed like
gravel-rash in my bone-marrow
and my abdomen-linings, I
realised that my subconscious
was keeping me awake so that
I could help Asford. He, having
been assigned the first two hours
of guard-duty, sat apart from
us near a stump, restlessly mov-
ing his body either to watch all
round him or to relieve his
cramped muscles.
It suddenly dawned on me
how unfitted for this adventure
the whole lot of us were. We
were trained to crew aircraft, to
fly them, or guide them to places
where we would throw things
down on our enemies, or down
to our friends. We were trained
for mass slaughter of an aloof
nature, certainly not for man-to-
man or hand-to-hand skirmish-
ing. During our training, and
perhaps on occasions since, we
had scrambled over obstacle-
courses like boys in a paper-
chase ; we had done a bit of
rifle-drill and fired a few hun-
dred rounds; we had been
enthusiastic about occasional
bouts of unarmed combat; but
we had never taken this rough
kind of soldiering seriously,
being quite happy to keep our
hands more-or-less clean in our
crew jobs, I smiled as I thought
how clumsy our dojngs of the
day would have appeared to a
veteran Army man. We had
perhaps done everything wrong,
and if there had been enemy
troops in the vicinity would
probably not have survived an
hour.
I watched Asford sitting there
restlessly on his uncomfortable
perch. He was no guard ; had
probably never in his whole life
guarded anything more im-
portant than the rubbish-dump
at Forrest Hill. He might stay as
alert as the best, he might be as
courageous as the bravest, but
he would likely not know danger
until it struck. However well
he did it, he would probably do
the wrong thing every time in
this situation.
He had enlisted from a job
in the Taxation Department,
and he had never wholly lost
those lip-pursings and pencil-
bumpings that are often the
marks of your efficient clerk. He
was sturdy and strong, black-
haired, with Irish complexion;
he had a flair for wearing un-
ironed drabs and battered blue
cap to the best advantage ; he
could fly any number of twin-
engined aircraft to perfection,
and liked the job, too ; he had
a commanding manner which
fitted him for responsible jobs
over men ; but the most insig-
nificant hooligan would prob-
ably have bested him with a
bottle. He had blown many a
lap to pieces from the air, but
he would be squeamish at the
sight of a minor wound. Accord-
ing to civilised standards, he was
virtuous and refined ; but as a
guerrilla-fighter he was a child.
I listened to the sounds of the
sleepers about me, and won-
dered that they could rest so
easily amid the eerie, mur-
muring darkness that enclosed
our frail fort with our one soli-
tary, keenly inefficient sentinel
to deal with the creeping menace
which even now might be upon
us. Asford suddenly turned his
head my way, and slowly rose.
I raised myself on my elbow
and grasped my Smith and Wes-
son in its holster. I lay still as
he bent over me to peer into my
face and listen, and then in-
spected the others in turn, be-
fore moving nojselessly to our
sick-quarters near by, where
John Mayling and Shard, with an
occasional groan between them,
lay sweltering in their fevers.
Asford carefully inspected the
injured men, wiping away the
sweat from Shard’s forehead as,
in the tones of a fond mother,
he whispered loudly enough for
my straining ears to hear and
understand:
“Poor old chap. You’ll be
right to-morrow.”
And Red’s soft whisper,
issuing suddenly from the bunk
at my elbow, startled me alarm-
ingly :
“If he’s wise he won’t be,
because he’ll have to carry a
pack. I wish I’d had the sense
to lie still after the prang. You
have awful nightmares, Bert, or
I have. Put that thing away and
rest. Nobody is going to move
round the scrub on a night like
this. The only things you need


im
m.
m
I
Even listeners con win
a watch-or a walrus-
in my grand new
AMPOL SHOW
"Number
Please!"
says
JACK DAVEY
"NUMBER PLEASE!"
every Friday at 8 p.m.
on Macquarie Stations:
2GB 2HR 2CA 2WL 2DU 2HD
2LF 2LT 2MG 2MW 2PK SAW
3CV 4BH 4GR SDN 6IX 6WB
6MD 7HO 7LA
worry about are the fireflies and
the mosquitoes.”
Thereafter i lay back
wondering if all the others
had lain awake as I had. Pre-
sently I must have drifted into
a sound sleep, for at 0200 hours
Woolcott had to drag me five
yards along the ground before I
came to myself.
The moon had now gone, leav-
ing a heavy darkness, and, as I
sat silently at my post, watching
the fireflies dancing before the
moving shadows and listening to
that phenomenon which can
scarcely be classified as sound
and might perhaps be sensed by
the hairs of the head or the
pores of the skin, that incessant
jungle vibration or oscillation,
that drumming or flickering,
upon which all creatures, animal
or vegetable, large or small,
for ever weave grotesque patterns
of almost every conceivable type,
pitch and intensity of sound, I
gradually seemed to withdraw
from my prone companions, or
they from me.
Before my watch was half-
spent I felt inconceivably lonely,
unutterably forsaken, beset by
sad thoughts of the widow and
the orphan. At that hour I,
who I then knew had always
been pampered and surrounded
by friends, felt a great upsurge
of feeling—part sympathy, part
admiration —for all the Mc-
Phersons, the Johnsons and all
the soldiers on guard in for-
ward positions; and all light-
house-keepers, all night-watch-
men and all involuntary tramps
—for the great host of humanity
compelled to spend much of its
waking-time alone and away
from its native hearth, whose
isolation, like that of the new-
born babe and the soul in the
extremity of death, is shared
only by God.
I knew I had erred in imagin-
ing that a man sitting in an air-
craft, high up in a dark sky,
miles from home and over un-
friendly ground or water, was
lonely. However much danger
he was in, he could talk to his
crew-members, or his base, or,
at worst, his plane ; and he must
keep his mind on his job, thus
shutting out the flood of doleful
imagery which is the spirit of
loneliness.
I understood the frantic eager-
ness to converse of the ento-
mologists whom on occasion I
had met at small stations in New
Guinea. Perhaps they had just
looked in after camping for
weeks with a couple of boongs
in the jungle, passing their days
wandering about the kunai-grass
collecting any of the hundreds
of species of mites which crawled
on their gaiters, and perhaps part
of their nights in nostalgic
rumination on civilisation. Those
I met were of the R.A.A.F.,
good fellows all, very interested
in their work, which appeared
to aim at the recognition of the
scrub-typhus mite; but they
bailed you up and they talked
and talked, talked interminably,
because perhaps they were about
to go on a trek where they could
only think.
Woolcott, who had not long
fallen asleep, began to toss
about; then he appeared to
wake up and take off one sock.
He settled back, but his tossings
broke out again, and he began
to moan in his sleep. Presently,
just so that I might try to escape
from my dejection, I went to
him. His bare left foot was
thrust out from his blanket into
a clump of dead bush ; so, think-
ing the sharp dead ends might
be troubling him, I grasped his
leg with the intention of lifting
it on to the blanket, but he
started so violently that I with-
drew my hand.
He appeared not to wake; so,
peering closely through the dark-
ness, which, to my accustomed
eyes, was like dim moonlight, I
noticed that a webbing belt was
wound three times round his
ankle and buckled at the instep.
The foot below the belt and
the leg above it appeared to
bulge out grotesquely, and I
could see, even in the poor light,
that Ray had an ugly injury
which in daylight would be
angry with an extensive bruis-
ing. He had neither limped nor
complained during the day, even
while he struggled along under
the burden of two stretcher-
ends, but I now realised that I
had been mistaken in attributing
his unwonted quietness to shock.
I decided not to wake him,
but to attend to the leg in day-
light ; but as I made to leave
him he grasped my arm and
sat up, wide awake.
“Forget it, Bert,” he said, a
note of urgency in his voice,
“Don’t tell the others —they’ve
got troubles already. I’ll get
along.”
“You must have had curry
yesterday,” I whispered back.
“Not much,” he said hastily.
“It’s a bit of a strain, and it’s
right when it’s warmed-up. Don’t
tell the others,” he repeated.
I insisted on binding it up
securely for him. In the process
I discovered that it was quite
unfit to walk on, and I seriously
debated whether I should respect
Ray’s confidence. As I sat still
in the eerie pre-dawn light, just
before waking Red to his vigil, I
fell to wondering about Ray.
He was a young fellow, en-
listed out of high school. He
was plump like a baby, with pink
cheeks and dark hair. He was
an inveterate lounger, probably
by heredity. He could stand as
stiff as a ramrod and yet give
the appearance of lounging. He
was swift of movement and
quick of speech, but there was a
certain indefinable slovenliness
about both which clearly showed
this trait. He was a clever, effi-
cient navigator, yet about all his
work and his plots and his logs
there was a raggedness that was
more typical than his signature.
His perpetual grin demon-
strated the chronic lounging of
his facial muscles, and his
almost unfailing good-humor,
very occasionally shattered by
sudden tempestuous bursts of
wellnigh unprovoked violence,
seemed to show that the loung-
ing was deeply ingrained in his
temperament. He always gave
the impression that his voluntary
muscles took their ease while
the involuntary worked, and that
as soon as he sprang to action
his involuntary muscles per-
formed only the necessary mini-
mum of labor. But as I sat there
in the lightening morning he
appeared to me as the chap best
fitted for this escape trek, for he
was apparently the one who
could best adapt himself to new
surroundings, and he seemed to
have a leaning towards the
rugged way of life.
Before setting out next morn-
ing Ray mentioned that he had
a sore foot, and made light of
it; but I insisted that he must
not carry the stretchers for a
while,
111
ALL that day we travelled,
Red, Asford and myself
carrying the stretchers and
Woolcott hobbling along as
pacemaker and scout in the
lead, halting often for breathers,
drinks and attention to the sick.
At 1000 hours we came upon a
branch-track bearing towards
the west, and this we followed
without any hesitation; but we
had not travelled half a mile
before Woolcott motioned us to
halt and push out of sight into
the scrub on the trail’s edge,
where he presently joined us.
“This brings us right along
the edge of a boong garden,” he
explained, “and there are boongs
working in the fields.”
Instructing the party to retire
deeper into the shrubbery and
settle themselves as comfortably
as possible, I went out to recon-
noitre.
The garden was an absolute
picture of health and fertility,
though a suburbanite might have
condemned it for its bold want
of orderliness and its luxuriant
untidiness. Whether or not the
boongs are good gardeners, I
haven’t the faintest idea, for the
observations I made as I
crouched in the scrub that morn-
ing, taking in the scene with
eyes that sought a means of
escape rather than the finer
points of the arts of husbandry,
represented one of my few
cursory examinations of the
boongs’ gardening effort and its
results.
The first thing about the gar-
dens which impressed me was
the fact that the boongs were
working—rusing the Government
stroke, certainly, but, neverthe-
less, steadily working, as they
woujd no doubt be doing if Japs
were in the vicinity. It was very
hot, and I could almost fancy
that the worker nearest me kept
casting longing eyes at the shade
on the garden boundary as if
he would like to be lying there.
Cautiously I slipped back
further into the timber, which
hereabouts was not bound to-
gether by the infernal under-
brush and vines which, in the
unsettled jungle areas, matted
the foliage together into an
almost solid mass ; and presently
I found another track which
apparently joined the track we
had travelled all the morning.
Crossing this, I moved about
carefully for some time until
finally I sighted the village. I
concealed myself and waited.
The timber-framed grass-huts
shone like gold where the sun
beat on them, and the openings
seemed pitch-black in contrast.
But the only movement was the
shimmering of the whole built-
up area in the humid air. There
were no cries of babes or scold-
ings of women; there wasn’t
even an old crone or an aged
buck pottering about. Still I
waited, and presently three
young men walked into view
carrying, not a prize of the chase,
a pig, or a fish, or a bird, but
baskets of sweet-potato for the
pot. That told me much: Japs
were in the vicinity ; the boongs,
as was their habit in their
sagacity, had concealed their
women and children where no
lusting, sadistic soldier could
find them.
With redoubled caution I
made my way back to my com-
panions, ascertaining on the way
that the track I had discovered
joined that which we had beerr
following at the edge of the
garden but out of sight of the
workers. We shouldered our
burdens and set off along this
new track, which led us wide
of the village.
I felt that we would be safer
and happier if we went now,
rather than waited about aim-
lessly in hiding. I did not fancy
night-travelling on the rugged
trail; and movement, however
slow, would make us feel we
were getting somewhere, and
give us something to think
about. I calculated that any
enemy troops we might meet
on this trail would be in small
parties from which, unless we
were taken in ambush, we could
hide at Ray’s signal and either
let pass, or, if there was a possi-
bility that yve might be seen, deal
with.
Probably no enemy soldier
would expect to see us here ;
and thus in any encounter sur-
prise would work to our advant-
age. We were more heavily
armed with our tommy-gun and
rifles than most enemy troops
in this enemy bastion would be.
Red and Asford at least would
be quite happy to join in any
affray. In short, we were on
our way home; and, rightly or
wrongly, we had decided to keep
going until we were compelled
to stop by something more con-
crete than doubts about the wis-
dom of our course of action.
CJHARD was one very sick boy
now. His wounds were badly
inflamed, and his diet was
sulphadiazine and water. Wafer
was one item we would never
go short of. We had great stocks
of water-purifying tablets. The
taste of the purified article was
not calculated to make the
palate whoop with delight. The
tablet you put in to take away
the taste of the purifying agents
needed another tablet to take its
taste away. But the resultant
mixture certainly slaked the
thirst.
At midday the rain poured
down for thirty minutes. We
covered the injured with ground-
sheets, but ourselves walked on
as before, for to a whole man
a drenching there is a mere
trifle. But even without the rain
we could get water practically
anywhere; even, if we were
hard-pressed, from trees and
fleshy stems all aboutlis,
John Mayling suddenly came-
to at about 1500 hours, and we
took the first opportunity to
halt in order to attend to him.
He came completely out of his
coma and wanted to walk, and
for some time thereafter sulked
because we insisted on his being
carried.
Some time later I saw that
Ray Woolcott, even unburdened
as he was, was making hard going
of it. I advised him to pack up
and we’d camp for the night;
but he would have none of that.
He was quite well enough to
continue. He insisted that I
must on no account halt be-
cause of him. Frequently during
the closing hours of daylight I
renewed my suggestion, but he
was adamant, and finally be-
came so excited in his insistence
that, without consulting him
further, I called a halt. We pre-
pared a camp. Ray was morose,
and refused to allow me to look
at his ankle, declaring that the
walk had almost cured it. I
tried to excuse him from guard
duty for that night, but he ob-
jected so fiercely that I gave way.
By the time we had doctored
all our injuries—and not one of
us was unscathed —the sun had
set; but before darkness set in
we had had a tinned meal and
arranged our sleeping positions.
John Mayling, altogether too
bright and very excitable, was
subdued with a good stiff drug ;
poor old Shard, broken and in-
flamed all over, was at first in
a condition of drugged delirium.
At 2000 hours Shard began to
moan loudly, and presently fell
to screaming incessantly, his
cries shattering the lulling tropic
night and putting us all on edge.
We made him as comfortable as
we could, but his screaming be-
came louder, and went on and
on into the slow-moving night,
making our rest in those sur-
roundings a nightmare in antici-
pation.
We could do no more for him
than make him easy and watch
him. He was not moaning or
crying, but screaming in almost
such a way as I remember hear-
ing a man scream when a corro-
sive acid spilled over him; and,
from whatever store in his bat-
tered body the energy was
drawn, the cries showed no signs
of abating, but, as night wore
on, seemed to grow worse. The
cries must have carried a great
distance, for they were so loud
that the jungle seemed perfectly
silent in comparison.
In this atmosphere Asford,
Red and I sat for hours huddled
uneasily in the darkness yarn-
ing about home —not the home
to which one writes letters,
where one’s friends and rela-
tives live, but Piva, our distant
(Continued on next page )


goal, which, in comparison with
our present position, seemed a
paradise indeed. Gone were the
smells of its fuming latrines and
mess-drains ; gone was the de-
pressing unsightliness of its tents
and its straggling jungle ; gone
were the boredom and the dis-
comfort of its inhabitants ; gone
were its stifling heat, its unbear-
able meals and its undrinkable
water.
We talked of it and our
friends there until we all gradu
ally fell silent from veritable
home-sickness. Once we reachec
there all our troubles would be
over, and we could again laze
away our leisure in a spicy
atmosphere, surrounded by
happy faces, filling our stomachs
with delicacies three times a day
and wandering about in the coo
breezes collecting orchids when
we felt energetic enough. The
nightmare journey which we
knew lay ahead of us seemec
well worth while, even if there-
after we lived only one hour in
that delightful place, Piva.
At 2300 hours Asford, Red
and I, leaving Ray Woolcott to
do another hour of sentry duty
lay down in the inky darkness
not to sleep, for Shard’s screams
were rising until they could only
be described as shrieks, but at
least to rest our muscles. As 1
lay taut on the groundsheet 1
could not help comparing
Shard’s cries to calls broadcasi
to every boong and every Jap
on Bougainville, and I felt that
before morning a whole army
would be around to inquire the
cause of them.
Despite my tension I must
have dozed, for I was startled
out of unconsciousness by a par-
ticularly loud scream, and, in
my half-waking condition, lay
shuddering as I waited for the
next, but it did not come
The whole place was still.
Then all the jungle noises,
which seemed to have been
muted while the screaming en-
dured, burst in upon my taut
hearing. Relief invaded my
every muscle, but a horrible
possibility occurred to me, and
I was about to rise hurriedly
when Ray Woolcott’s voice
whispered in my ear;
“I think he’s gone, Bert. Will
you come and look?”
I stumbled towards the sick-
quarters. Asford and Red were
stumbling behind me. The four
of us stood hopefully in the hot
darkness, feeling for signs of
life in poor Shard’s lifeless
remains.
morning John Mayling
1 ' was worse. While we buried
Shard we must all have felt
badly about our remaining
stretcher-case. After disposing
of what breakfast we felt like
eating we silently packed up and
set out westwards, Woolcott act-
ing as forward scout. Plodding
miserably on, I could not tear
my mind from thoughts of poor
old Shard and his sudden
passing. I was mystified about
the manner of his death. He
was broken-up very badly, it is
true, with miscellaneous bone
fractures and probably internal
injuries of one sort or another ;
but his head had apparently
come unscathed through the
accident. I had twice examined
it very carefully without finding
a mark or a lump on it.
Yet by morning light we had
seen that Shard had haemor-
rhaged from the left ear. This
seemed to be the cause, or at
least a symptom, of the cause
of death. I knew nothing about
medicine, and no doubt there
would be a perfectly logical ex-
planation of the apparently
strange phenomenon. I realised
why the law demands autopsies ;
I would have been pleased to
have a post-mortem examination
for old Shard. But that would
never be. We had left his body
far behind in a shallow grave
to decompose in the jungle
mould.
I fell to thinking that his
screaming had suggested some
brain injury—and here the
satanic idea occurred to me :
would one of our party be likely
to kill Shard out of mercy, or
fear of his tell-tale cries, or for
any other reason? As I pain-
fully plodded on I toyed with
the idea, considering it as an
author might consider a plot. I
concluded that Woolcott, who
had been on duty when Shard
died, was the most fitted by
opportunity and temperament.
Then I shook the thought
from my mind and began to
think about home. Later in the
morning I felt cold-shivers
through my back and limbs, as
though I had a fever ; and with
a laugh I put my former shock-
ing and unreal qualms down to
lightheadedness.
Throughout the hot, humid
day we travelled steadily. At
about 1600 hours Ray Woolcott
signalled us and ran back. We
moved off the track and lowered
our stretcher as he joined us. I
looked in obedience to Ray’s
urgent summons and saw three
enemy soldiers, bootless, clad
only in caps and shorts, but
armed with rifles and ammuni-
tion-packs.
OOMEHOW the leaf-screen be-
tween us and the track
seemed very scanty, making me
suddenly wish that we had
moved back further. But it was
now too late. The men were
very close, moving silently with
bare feet and still tongues. I
felt sure they would pass by
unsuspecting. My glance, ap-
parently at the same
instant as that of the
leading Jap, lit on a
packet of adhesive-
plaster lying at the
“I felt his face . He was dead . We
would carry him no more”
trail’s edge, where it
had evidently been brushed
from the stretcher by a branch
as we had pushed into hiding.
He picked it up. His com-
panions propped close behind
him. Instinctively he raised his
hand and thrust aside part of
the leafy screen to peep into the
scrub beyond. I doubt if his
discovery had conveyed much to
him. If he had expected trouble
he surely would not have poked
his nose in it, for the Jap was
adept at the circuitous approach,
the flank attack. But, whatever
his motive, he did not stay long
enough away from his ancestors
to reveal it. As his head bobbed
into our view Ray Woolcott be-
side me almost severed it from
his trunk with a tommy-gun
burst; then jumped forward and
aimed at his bewildered com-
panions, one of whom fell
instantly.
The third Jap dodged the fly-
ing missiles, and although Red,
Asford and I fired with our re-
volvers, he darted into the bushes
on our side of the track, so that
we lost sight of him. We desper-
ately pursued him. Red and Ray
following his crashing progress
along thet rack and Asford and
I trying to follow him through
the scrub. For ten minutes we
could hear him frantically
scrambling in the bushes. Then
the sounds ceased. Thai ted, and
we stood still to listen, but we
could hear no sound but the
accustomed noises of the jungle.
We hunted for another thirty
minutes, following his line of
retreat by means of the broken
shrubbery to where it appeared
to stop; going back to look for
a point where he may have
doubled back to, and diverged
from, his original course, doubt-
ing our eyes and scouting about
for his real route, and looking
under every bush in the vicinity,
but we neither saw nor heard
him. He could not have run
back on to the track, for Red
and John had kept that under
constant observation; neither
could he have gone into a hole
like a spider and pulled a lid
over himself.
We had no time to bury the
dead—both Japs were beyond
aid —but left them where Red
and John had carried them, as
far away from the track as pos-
sible.
/''VUR progress now was a
forced march, if ever there
was one. Heavily burdened, we
struggled along at a killing pace,
almost without pause, all
through the aeon of daylight that
remained throughout the
apparently interminable twi-
light, and for two long, stag-
gering, stumbling, cruel hours
of darkness, until I felt that my
legs had lost contact with my
brain and were reaching out in
front of each other by memory.
Nobody complained. We were
doing the only thing we could
do in such circumstances.
Woolcott objected only when at
last we left the track, pushed as
far as we could into the bush,
lowered the stretcher and sat
silently for some minutes, mar-
shalling the energy to perform
our bedtime chores.
Two guards at a time kept
watch that night, for now, if
never before, since there was
every possibility that the Japs
knew of our existence, we were
in danger of discovery.
Woolcott and I kept first
watch, from 2200 till midnight,
one on each side of the
sleepers. The place we had
chosen to sleep was not a cleared
space, but just part of the scrub.
The stretchers and the other
bunks, each with the bushes
hacked away from underneath
them, were separated by small
shrubs which in our fatigue we
had not cleared away. As a
matter of fact, I think we had
left them there deliberately to
hide the stretcher in case we were
discovered.
Although I imagined many
times that strange shapes were
moving about, rustling the
leaves, I believe I heard or saw
nothing until just before mid-
night, when there were three
violent thuds, a grunt and a
choking scream.
Startled, so that my arms flew
up in a ludicrous surrendering
gesture, I saw Woolcott kneeling
not three yards from me, beside
Mayling’s stretcher. I reached
him in one bound. He stood
erect with startling suddenness,
and wildly swung his arms
about in a bereft gesture.
“What’s up?” I whispered
urgently.
“He got Mayling,” said Wool-
cott in a hoarse voice.
I shuddered as with cold as I
took Mayling’s wrist and found
its pulse dead. I felt his heart
feverishly, and sighed with relief
as I felt it beating, only to rea-
lise that I felt the throbbing of
my own.
I felt his face. He was dead.
We would carry him no more.
6 6 WHAT happened?” I
* * chattered.
“I saw nothing,” said Wool-
cott, almost sobbing. “I heard
nothing—until a shadow moved
slowly on the ground from
Mayling here towards Red.
Something made me go for it at
once ; I came down knife-first
—but it —he—the murdering
little swine got away.”
“How did you know Mayling
was dead?” I asked foolishly,
more to myself than to him,
“I knew he had got Mayling,”
said Woolcott, and at that
moment his fatigue, his strained
nerves, his recent shock all allied
to set him weeping softly, but
none the less bitterly. “I wanted
you to keep going, Bert,” he
moaned. “We should have
travelled all night.”
John Mayling’s dead face was
turned upward towards the
foliage overhead. Instinctively
I put my hands to his ears. My
right hand encountered the wet,
warm stickiness of blood round
his left ear and in his hair.
Almost in the same movement,
without giving an instant’s con-
sideration to the folly of such
an action, I plucked a torch
from the belt at my waist and
shone it on the dead face.
Within a foot of the wounded
ear, just beyond a pool of bright-
red blood which was fast seep-
ing and congealing into the
short, trampled herbage, was a
pointed stick like a meat-skewer
about a foot long and stained
for some inches from its sharp
end with fast-drying blood,
■jVfO more than a minute had
elapsed since my awaken-
ing, and although the sounds
associated with this horrible
event had seemed deafening to
me, Red and Asford had not
stirred. The camp was still, and
all at once panic seized me as I
was assailed by a dreadful fear.
With pounding heart and
trembling hands I
went to each in turn.
What immeasurable
relief I experienced as
I returned to where
Woolcott still knelt
beside the body of his com-
panion !
To say that I was confused in
mind would be a gross under-
statement, but I had not com-
pletely forgotten that I was a
guard. I had not wholly with-
drawn my attention from the
surrounding jungle, where, it
seemed, the killer was standing
or crouching still and quiet; but
Woolcott appeared to be wholly
absorbed in his grief as I
squatted down beside him.
It was reasonably safe to
assume that we had only one
man to deal with, for a few
men, knowing the location of
our roost, would have crawled
into strategic positions and, at
a signal, picked us off like ducks
at a shooting-gallery. The
problem was how to deal with
such a fanatic. We were camped
in the jungle itself, in a spot
that we had scarcely troubled to
clear, and the thick brush
hemmed us in closely on every
side. If we knew where the Jap
had moved we might deal with
him effectively.
“Which way did he go?” I
whispered to Woolcott.
“I don’t know,” he said
brokenly.
“It seems,” I said, and I shud-
dered as I voiced my frightful
thought, “that he punched a
skewer into Mayling’s brain
through the ear. What do you
think about it?”
“It was the Jap we wounded,”
Woolcott said savagely. “He
followed us all day, the .”
“I wonder would he have a
gun,” I said half to myself.
Woolcott said nothing.
It seemed to me that until
we were settled in our minds and
had a plan of action the less
movement in our camp the
better. Somehow for myself I
felt no danger of a bullet. It
now struck me that I had not
heard the assailant crashing into
the scrub. It would be impos-
sible for anyone to move in the
jungle without making a noise.
I had the impression that the
killer had not moved into the
scrub at all but was lying in the
undergrowth very close to me.
“Lie down low,” I whispered
to Woolcott, “while we thrash •
this out,” and I had to pull him
down beside me. I scanned the
dark shrubs all round us and
tried to collect my thoughts, I
considered Woolcott’s sugges-
tion that the Jap who had
escaped us had followed us.
probably crawling up close to
our camp while we were still
settling ourselves. Then he had
awaited his opportunity, wormed
his way to Mayling and mur-
dered him. Perhaps he had
planned to wipe us all out in this
manner until Woolcott had seen
him.
I could scarcely credit the
fanaticism of a man who would
set about annihilating five men
in this fashion, under the very
noses of two guards who would
in the circumstances be wide-
awake and watchful. I had been
led to believe that the Japs did
not travel singly in this hill
country, or, granted that this
man was the third of the party
we had encountered during the
day, even in threes; but in
much larger units. Therefore,
this man, having ascertained our
route or our whereabouts,
should have been able to find
reinforcements readily. The
fact that he might have come
alone was something to be ex-
plained by the peculiarity of his
circumstances, some abnormal
trait in his mind or the effects
of wounds we may have inflicted
on him.
Then my mind was flooded
by thoughts similar to those
I had momentarily enter-
tained during the day. May-
ling’s • condition now was
similar to that of Shard when
we buried him; Woolcott was
near Mayling when he died ; I
heard no noise which the mur-
derer must have created as he
made his escape ; it was almost
fantastic to think the Jap we
had wounded could have accom-
plished the deed; it was cer-
tainly not a Jap who had
dispatched Shard in this same
grisly manner ; Mayling’s help-
lessness had been impeding our
progress, just as Shard’s cries
were a menace to our safety; at
every stage of our journey so far
it was Woolcott who had urged
us to hasten and to travel be-
yond our endurance; Woolcott,
with a leg which should have
immobilised him, had fanati-
cally walked for two days, always
chafing because our progress
was slow; it was Woolcott who
had shown no hesitation in
shooting the two Japs and no
compunction about his deed
afterwards. Woolcott had tacitly
admitted a motive and he had
had the opportunity,
I felt so uncomfortable that
I moved across to wake the
other two. Red woke at once,
cursing me for disturbing a
decent man’s slumbers at such
an unearthly hour; and I was
just about to explain to him
when I heard Woolcott jump
swiftly to his feet, and, alarmed,
I faced him with my revolver
ready in my hand. Woolcott,
standing in the middle of our
small clearing, began wildly to
discharge his tommy-gun into
the jungle about us. He made
a complete revolution, spraying
bullets continuously, until his
ammunition was expended. Then
he threw down his gun and sat
down again. >
AT the first shot I had thrown
myself down beside Red
and I had to grab Asford’s arm
as, its owner rudely awakened
by the fusillade, it came up with
a Smith and Wesson ready to
do business. “It’s Woolcott!”
I shouted over the din. “No-
body else!” and even as I spoke
I suddenly wondered whether it
wouldn’t have been better for
everybody concerned to let
Asford shoot.
“He’s nuts,” said Red. For
myself I held my gun ready to
shoot the instant Woolcott’s
weapon showed any inclination
to jerk towards us.
When Woolcott had subsided
I quickly told Red and Asford
what had happened, naturally
not mentioning my suspicions,
which I still considered un-
worthy.
“Now, Bert,” Red said when I
had finished, “you’re the boss.
You tell us what to do.”
“There’s not much choice,” I
said. “We can pack up and
(Continued on page 30)


Further Argument on-
Who Wrote
"Ralph Rushleigh"?
By M. H. ELLIS
MQST of the points raised
by Mr. Colin Roderick in
his reply to my specula-
tions about the author-
ship of Ralph Rashleigh have
little bearing on the debate for
the average reader, though par-
ticular statements might have
interest for particular persons.
A specialist in mental dis-
orders, for instance, might be
deeply interested in me if he
could be persuaded that I (a
biographer of Greenway) did, in
fact, “refer to” Mr. Colin
Roderick and a handwriting
expert (whom I have since inter-
viewed) as evidence that Tucker,
the supposed author of Rash-
leigh, copied some documents in
1838-39:
(a) A letter found in England in
Green way’s bandwriting, dated Sep-
tember 9, 1822, mentioning en-
closures.
(b) The enclosures, none dated
later than September 9, 1822.
I didn’t, of course, refer him
to these, nor to any particular
documents. I was not, in fact,
asked to refer him to specific
documents.
As he professes a knowledge
of Greenway’s writings and his
lack of humor and his spelling,
did he not recognise Greenway’s
handwriting? He refers to all
the documents as “copies.”
That he and his expert
found “there was no evidence
that Tucker had access to
Greenway’s plans” is not
strange, since there never were
any authenticated plans in
Greenway’s holograph. If there
were, I still cannot deduce how
a handwriting expert can
find, in 1952, that a clerk in the
Colonial Architect’s office could
not have seen them in the
Colonial Office archives in 1838-
39. And since there are no
known examples of Greenway’s
draughtsmanship, I cannot
understand, either, how it could
be “found” that “Tucker’s
draughtsmanship was nothing
like Greenway’s.”
Incidentally, I did not make
the suggestion that Tucker
copied some Greenway papers
while in the Government Archi-
tect’s office my “leading allega-
tion.” In view of his official
work it seemed quite secondary
to me —something, as I said,
which made “suspicions more
suspicious,” but not advancing
the argument very far either
way.
The only real issue in the dis-
cussion is; What evidence is
there that (a) Tucker ( b ) Green-
way might have written Ralph
Rashleigh ? and this may be
tested under several heads:
Firstly, the manuscript is in
Tucker’s handwriting,
Rashleigh’s author is named
on the title page as “ Giacomo
di Rosenberg —“ Rosenberg” was
a pseudonym of Tucker.
Mr. Roderick refers to the
manuscript as if it were the
author’s original, not the work
of a coypist. He points out that
it contains numerous corrections,
and that “a copyist would have
produced a clean manuscript,
free of corrections and emenda-
tions,”
What he fails to say is that the
book, in the first place, seems
to have been written straight
through for 300 foolscap pages
without the author having to
alter one thought in the process.
At a later stage there were
numerous alterations, as he
says; but they are all (as far as
I could see) alterations purely
verbal —corrections of spelling,
alterations in the position of
words, substitution of a phrase
by a word or of one conjunc-
tion by another. There seems to
be no added thought, philosophy
or incident.
The work seems to have been
written-down in long bouts of
writing, several thousand words
at a time; but in fairness it is
not always easy to determine
this explicitly. It seems to have
been written with extreme care
to use every available bit of
space on the pages. This is not
usual in originals molten
from the brain. Normally 400
words or more go to the page,
from close to the top edge to
close to the bottom edge; and
with no margins whatever.
When the author or copier came
to within 12 pages of the end he
obviously knew clearly how
much he had to fit into the
remaining pages at his disposal
in the book or paper available.
His handwriting at that stage
became tiny; he began to pack
over 600 words into each page,
and, apparently, completed the
writing of the last 7000 words
in a single sitting, judging by the
ink and penmanship. He finished
right on the lower edge of the
page, with no more space to add
another line and with only half
a line to spare after his last
sentence.
With each new bout of writing
Mr. Tucker begins to put down
his matter in an exemplary
manner. His spelling is correct,
even in long, difficult words.
Then, after a period of exacti-
tude, he often seems to fall away
from perfection. His spelling
and capitalisation become erratic,
as if, at first, he had been copy-
ing something mechanically,
exactly and photographically, but
had reverted to his own natural
habits as he became weary.
Thus this man alleged to quote
Shakspeare, Scott, Pope, Dry-
den and Byron and La Roche-
foucauld at will from memory
is suddenly discovered spelling
“tuesday” with a small “t” and
writing of a “some of money.”
One word is worth mentioning
specially. The first time he refers
to the movable prison used in
chain-gangs he calls it the “belly
bot,” but writes the “t” as if
he is not sure of the letter. The
next time it occurs he spells it
“bott,” and repeats this several
times. The real word is “box,”
and he obviously does not know
it.
The narrative of the owner to
whom it later passed seems to
have been that the manuscript
was written by a convict archi-
tect, a genius associated with
many buildings, who was known
to write and who was in every
particular identical in description
with Greenway and with nobody
else in early convict history;
and that this author bequeathed
the manuscript to him, Alexan-
der Burnett, in gratitude for a
good turn.
Mr. Roderick accepts the
statement that the manuscript
was passed to Burnett, but
rejects the rest. He then assumes
that Burnett and Tucker became
“pals.”
Mr. Roderick writes:
But Lewis [i.e., Chief Colonial
Architect], Burnett and Tucker
affected each other’s company.
Can anyone see the Chief
Colonial Architect, an officer,
one of the Government House
circle of Governors Bourke and
Gipps, “affecting the company”
of a pervert-blackmailer, let out
of convict barracks every morn-
ing to do some menial work in
the architect’s office?
There is no evidence whatever
that Burnett and Tucker ever
met beyond that implied in the
fact that Burnett had a manu-
script ascribed to Tucker.
Mr. Roderick has asked me in
his article how the manuscript
could have been stolen from
Greenway without raising a hue
and cry ; and how Tucker could
have carried it with him for
seven years at the treadmill and
in and out of jail until he reached
Port Macquarie, On the first
point, it is sad fact that Death,
greatest of all thieves, stole not
merely a Greenway manuscript
but Greenway himself in Septem-
ber, 1837, without raising a “hue
and cry.” The papers did not
report his passing. We do not
know exactly where he died,
how he got there, what he died
of or the position of his grave.
On the second point I should
suppose that if he did steal the
manuscript in Sydney (I have
never surmised on that point)
Tucker carried it on his convict
way to Port Macquarie in
exactly the same way that Mr.
Roderick implies that he carried
it from Port Macquarie to jail
in Sydney in 1849, when he
guesses that it passed to Burnett.
Mr. Roderick, inquires, again,
whether “humorless Greenway,”
the “author of the turgid, bom-
bastic rhetoric” in the letters to
Macquarie, could have written
the book. I pass over the temp-
tation to ask whether Tucker, the
clerk and shop-assistant who
writes “tuesday,” “some of
money” and “to” for “too,”
could have written it and two
plays during a year of busy
convict life. Greenway was not
humorless —did he not quote
from Tristram Shandy ? His
writings appear in the Press over
a period of 11 years. He was,
apart from being an architect,
an artist of parts.
We can account, if the author
is Greenway, for not only his
ability to quote, from memory
obviously, Shakspeare (freely),
Dryden, Pope, perhaps Nash,
Arbuthnot’s Anecdotes, Gold-
smith, Burns, Byron, many of
the novels and poems of Scott,
Bloomfield, Masonic phrases and
the James version of the Bible ;
and even from Mrs. Hemans and
the pious, sickly Dale, the
schoolgirls’ delight.
Greenway in England had a
“valuable library.” He shows
his Masonry occasionally, is
openly devout as befits a church
architect, is a Protestant and
uses the Protestant Bible, and as
for Mrs. Hemans and Dale-
well, his wife kept a leading
girls’ school in Sydney.
But who can imagine a
Catholic clerk and shop-assis-
tant, who left school at 14,
showed no literary proclivities
to attract attention till he was
38 and spent most of his life in
durance and disgrace, acquiring
such a range of literary know-
ledge, even apart from new-
found Masonic and Protestant
tendencies? Was there a Lodge
Belly-box in his day open to men
not free? Did they provide the
road-gangs (with which Mr.
Roderick suggests he sometimes
worked) with scented copies of
Dale?
Behold the old lag sitting on
the steps of the treadmill • sim-
pering and in tears over those
lovely lines:
A sweet and solitary beam
An emanation from above,
Glimmers o’er life’s uncertain dream.
We hail that ray, and call it—LOVE.
Was the dreadful Mrs. Lack
addicted to lending her assigned
servants Mrs. Hemans’s poems?
Greenway’s vocabulary squares
with that of the author of Rash-
leigh. Both use —and in con-
nection with the same sentiments
—“contemptible” and “beastly,”
for example. Both are addicted
to “bowels of the earth” and
“hydra.” Both go out of their
way to comment on a man’s low-
liness as a “tinker.” Both, when
they wish to crystallise their
ideas of horrid convict toil,
nominate cutting down gum-
trees as its acme.
Rashleigh’s author, apparently
without point, sneers at the
commandant at Newcastle for
having six cows to give milk for
his family. For years Green way
raged because successive Gov-
ernments would not give him
the six cows Macquarie had
promised him. Rashleigh’s con-
vict ship is full of weavers. At
St. Mary’s Cathedral, where
Greenway seems to have worked,
it was a complaint that the Gov-
ernment assigned weavers to the
job instead of mechanics.
Greenway has a friend named
Harford; Rashleigh has one
named Hartop. Rashleigh, wish-
ing to disguise himself in Lon-
don, assumes 'the guise of Mr.
Robert Rowland, of Bristol. The
Rowlands were, and are, a teem-
ing clan around Bristol, but only
in the same hamlets frequented
by Greenways. Greenway’s wife
appears to have been related to
the Rowlands, though it is not
definite.
A man named Waterton, who
should have lived in Yorkshire
—1825 was the year when
Edward Waterton became
famous for “riding the cayman”
—did not invite Rashleigh home
to Walton Hall as one might
have expected (especially as the
romantic traveller had been at
Stonyhurst a few years before
Tucker) but to King’s Weston, a
village in Somerset, a few miles
from and closely linked to Ash-
ton, where Greenway lived in
England on the southern skirts
of Bristol, both centres having
had the same lord of the manor
for a period and consequently
an interchange of families. And,
incidentally, Greenway lived at
Ash-ton, on the edge of Leigh
Common, so that he had the
name of the hero ready-made if
he could find a single “R” to
put before the rest.
In discussing the probability
of an author having written a
book in the light of his know-
ledge I follow normal historical
method and want to know what
specific evidence there is that the
book is based on actual events
and, if so, what evidence there is
that the author could have
known of them.
I can find incidents reported
in 1824-26 to cover all'the main
events in this book. I quoted
them in my first article. It is
easy to prove that Greenway
must have been thoroughly
familiar with most of them, and
certainly with the places in which
they occurred in the book —not
always the places of their actual
time.
Mr. Roderick, on the other
hand, cannot plausibly document
the book in such a way as to
convince me that Tucker, who
arrived in 1827, could have had
personal knowledge of the
book’s incidents and places.
It can be proved only that the
Emu Theatre operated .in part
of 1825, that Sir Francis Forbes
stayed at Regentville in March-
May, 1826—he actually stayed
as well for a time, during that
visit, in quarters at the penal-
station provided by the super-
intendent. But Mr. Roderick
holds, without offering evidence,
that the events of the book, so
closely parallel to those in
1825-26, must have taken place
in 1827-28, because if they had
happened before then Tucker
could not have had first-hand
knowledge of them.
Again, Rashleigh’s drought.
It is an almost exact description
of the drought of 1813-15 (in the
middle of which Greenway
arrived), and of no other known
to history in any likely period.
Governor Darling reported
(June, 1828) that, in the 1827-28
drought, wheat did not go to
70s. a bushel or thereabouts, as
in 1813-15, but “not higher than
155.” ; that settlers generally in
1827-28 were giving their ser-
vants “very liberal” food allow-
ances of equal to 121 b. of bread
a week, instead of the starvation
pittance described in Rashleigh,
and that so far from their eating
lizards and besieging the
slaughter-yards for offal and en-
trails, they had “abundant” meat,
“the price of cattle having fallen
in consequence of the great
scarcity of grass” on the grazing-
grounds across the mountains.
To all this Mr. Roderick merely
repeats that his 705.-a-bushel,
lizard-eating drought is, “in fact,
the drought of 1827-28.” But
when it comes to accounting for
incidents for which he can find
no prototype after 1827, Mr.
Roderick says he never has con-
sidered it to be “history unde-
filed,” and speaks of “novelist’s
licence.”
The final matter for discussion
is the probability that the two
plays Jemmy Green in Australia
and Grahame’s Vengeance and
the novel Rashleigh could have
been written in the leisure of a
harassed convict storeman at
Port Macquarie Penal Station
on Government paper, during
the short period of a year or a
bit more. As Mr. Roderick
agrees, the authorities must have
connived if they were.
He concludes, without giv-
ing specific evidence other than
the existence of the manuscript,
that Gray, the police magistrate,
and Partridge, the superinten-
dent of convicts, “looked with
an indulgent eye on their
author,” and allowed him to
have paper and time; also, that
it is “likely the Literary Club was
most amused to find a talented
convict’s productions before it,”
and that it is “not unlikely that
the approbation their author
would receive spurred him to
greater effort.” He sees Mr.
Gray, P.M., a starchy Tory civil
servant, and Partridge, the gov-
ernor of the jail, “chortling over
Tucker’s portraits of Kinghorne
and Morisset” (i.e., the superin-
tendent of Emu Plains and the
commandant of Newcastle Penal
Settlement).
I can believe that Tucker
might have found time to copy
these works at Port Macquarie,
and perhaps later to add a few
incidents, the clumsy ending and
the only clear date in the book,
to disguise the fact that it was
not his original work. I could
also believe, on his record, that
he was capable of stealing them.
But I cannot believe that in the
circumstances he found time to
write them within the period
Mr. Roderick says he did,
especially as there is no evidence
that he wrote anything else.
I ask Mr. Roderick:
Does he really think the official
heads of Port Macquarie Penal
Settlement would have “chortled”
when one of their inmates, in a novel,
publicly held up the heads of an-
other penal settlement, all respected
'officials, as vicious brutes and
tyrants ?
Does he think that the local active
and retired military officers of the
Port would, without taking reprisals,
have allowed a convict blackmailer
to publicly libel an old war-time
comrade, the humane but firm Moris-
set, as a sadistic and inhuman
flogger in a novel?
Was it standard practice for the
Port Macquarie authorities to “look
with an indulgent eye” on and
supply with Government paper and
pens—one of their habitual-criminal
charges to enable him to (a) hold up
a venerable and respected clergyman
as an Illegal flogger and negligent
magistrate, (b) lampoon the Bench
and military officers in a libellous
character called “Captain Hqrty
Scornsnob, J.P.,” <c) describe a
recent Governor —another famous
soldier —as “Hominy Tom”?
Did Port Macquarie audiences —
officers, clergy, public servants —of
the Literary Club really show
“approbation” of savage public
libels on themselves, friends and
superiors, by criminals still in jail?
If these things were possible,
as Mr. Roderick seems to be-
lieve, jails and penal settlements
must have been more easygoing
in 1845 than they are in 1953.


SPORTING NATIONS
Cymbidium’s owners, Ivor and
Mrs. Stanford, lifted a tidy
first-prize of £1586, plus a £3OO
trophy, when their four-year-old
mare won Tattersall’s (Sydney)
Club Cup m miles) from
Benvolo and Euphrates, but they
didn’t profit from the betting
angle. Reason for non-backing
of the Mac Arthur mare was that
she was on trial as a stayer ; she
hadn’t won beyond nine furlongs
until New Year’s Day.
However, others apparently
regarded Cymbidium as a
potential stayer and the likely
Cup-winner, because she was
backed from 10’s (o 7’s, and one
punter lifted the best part of
£lO,OOO from the ring. The
owners, for their part, were
happy enough over the result.
They know now they have a stay-
ing mare who could go on to
greater success in distance events.
She might be worth watching
for round about autumn.
The colors of E. R. Williams,
owner of Hydrogen, Forest
Beau, Nitrogen, Argentina and
other smart horses, might soon
be carried to victory by two-
year-old colt Electro, third to
odds-on Seacraft and Reunite in
Tattersall’s Nursery at Rand-
wick on New Year’s Day.
Electro (1600gns. as a yearling)
is a son of Delville Wood (imp.)
and Lady Lume by St. Magnus
(imp.) from Lume by Night Raid
(imp.) from Illume by Kilbroney
(imp.). A second foal, Electro
belongs to the same family as
former champion mare Flight,
and of St. Razzle, Sir Simper,
Razzle Dazzle and Taramoa—
quite a galaxy of brilliant talent.
• • • •
Unbeaten, Grand Flaneur is
way back in the pedigree on the
dam’s side of Lord Stefan, who
opened his winning account in
brilliant style at Canterbury on
Saturday. He had shown mild
form only, but the distance of
the Campsie Graduation Stakes,
11 furlongs, suited the four-year-
old gelding. By Genetout (imp.)
from Cragnelia by Gaekwar’s
Pride (imp.). Lord Stefan comes
from a famly of stayers ; Tie's
related to Windbag, Poseidon,
Loquacious and Feminist. He is
raced by paddock bookmaker
Bill McDonald and trained by
Tom McGrath, whose best horse
was Main Topic, winner of the
1942 A.J.C. Derby and the fol-
lowing season’s A.J.C, Metro-
politan. Tom was a crack jockey
in his early years and won many
races, particularly in Melbourne.
A few days before Golden
Apple won the Canterbury Two-
year-old Novice for fillies she
was sold to a Japanese buyer,
appears to have secured a
promising youngster and one
who should carry on the good
work in her new country.
Golden Apple made Tommy
Smith’s 18th two - year - old
winner this season, a remarkable
feat. By Newtown Wonder
(imp.), who has sired several
speedy youngsters, he is from
Moni Koura, a Golden
Sovereign (imp.) mare.
Probably the most interesting
two-year-old winner in Australia
last weekend was Cortauld (bred
and owned in N.Z.), who won at
his third start in public when he
beat Reunite and Count Seven
in the colts’ division of the Two-
year-old. Cortauld is raced by
M. J. Moodabe, trained by
Maurice McCarten, and was
ridden by Neville Sellwood. His
breeder, Ken Austin, of Ingle-
wood Stud, Kaiapoi (N.Z.), was
formerly well-known in Sydney
as an auctioneer of thorough-
breds ; he has now been a keen
breeder in N.Z. for many years.
Cortauld is by Sun King (imp.)
from Capricious by Night Raid
limp.), sire of Phar Lap, from
Egotism by Demosthenes (imp.).
Cortauld is bred to stay. His
sire, Sun King, is a son of
Hyperion, and his dam was a
good stayer.
Some trainers have most of the
luck, others just can’t do a thing
right. One who has been on the
wrong leg is Randwick mentor
Charlie McLoughlin, who some
little time ago took over former
Perth galloper Morn Patrol, a
six-year-old horse who had done
fairly well in the West. Morn
Patrol has been placed at three
of his last four starts ; another
second was credited to him at
Canterbury, when he came from
a rearward position and just
failed to catch Pondicherry.
Another out of luck at the
moment is Rosebery mentor Joe
Stapleton, trainer of Golden
Wedge. The five-year-old geld-
ing had Cups specialist Noel
McGrowdie in the saddle at
Canterbury, but, after being
handy at the home turn, simply
dug his toes in and finished last.
It would be interesting to know
what he has cost his party since
coming from Brisbane!
The Cup magic of Noel Mc-
Growdie was fully demonstrated
to Randwick racegoers on New
Year’s Day, when he brought
Cymbidium with a withering last-
moment dash to beat topweight
Benvolo in the Tattersall’s Cup
with Euphrates in third-place.
McGrowdie had ridden
Euphrates into fourth-place in
the A.J.C. Summer Cup, but Jack
Thompson was engaged for that
doubtful stayer in the Tattersall’s
Cup, and McGrowdie secured an
almost last-minute Cymbidium
mount. McGrowdie’s amazing
ability in big races is such that
many backers follow him in big
races no matter what the prior
form of his mount.
Hindostan, who carries the
colors of A.J.C. committeemen
W. R. Dovey, Q.C., and R. F.
Moses,- appeared a trifle for-
tunate to land the Canterbury
First Ashbury Graduation
Stakes. Buzz Andrew, with a
little more luck in running, might
have finished first instead of
third. Hindostan was having his
first run for about 12 months,
but was made favorite when bet-
ting opened, bookmakers rightly
assessing his prospects. The
four-year-old Dhoti (imp.) geld-
ing was a smart two-year-old and
won three successive races when
trained at Randwick by Frank
Dalton.
• • * •
Imported Nebris (sire of
Janieval, all-the-way winner of
the First Youthful Stakes at
Moonee Valley) is a son of Big
Game and Far a by Phalaris, and
was bred by Lord Derby. Nebris
did little racing in England, and
has not been long at the stud in
Victoria, but he has made an
excellent start as a sire. Jan-
leval’s dam Burndale is by
Burnewang (imp.) from All
Chatter by Magpie (imp.). Solar
Slipper, narrow winner of the
Second Youthful Stakes, is a
Solar Bear (imp.) colt from
Smileaway by Deitical from
Queen Flower by Wallace
Isinglass. Miss J. McPherson,
who races Solar Slipper, bred
the filly, who was having her
second race start and might turn
out more than useful.
Remarc, Williamstown Cup
winner in 1940, is making a name
for himself as a sire in Western
Australia, where he did most of
his racing. His progeny have
won upwards of £35,000 in
stakes. They include the present
idol of Perth racing, three-year-
old Racpnteur. The colt has won
10 successive races in Perth,
including last week’s Derby and
Perth Cup.
Murray Stream, dual winner
of the A.J.C. Metropolitan, is
getting quite a number of
winners in Brisbane. Latest on
his list of winners is Pleasant
Stream. Murray Stream when
in training at Rosebery (Sydney)
was easily the fastest track
galloper there. In all he won 19
races, and, with 10 minor places,
amassed £28,985 in stakes.
Sydney jockey Bill Cook holds
one distinctive record: 126 wins
in a season, including three dead-
heats, but his total is still 264
short of the world’s best,
achieved on the last day of 1952
by American apprentice Tony
Despirito, who piloted 390
winners during the 12 months
ended December 31. That is a
phenomenal total, especially by
an apprentice. Despirito, 17
years old, must be an amazing
horseman.
Racing, of course, is held
practically every day in the U.S.,
which helps to explain the
huge total. In Australia, with
racing comparatively restricted,
the riding of 100 winners or
more in one season is a rare
achievement, More than 10
years ago (1940-41 season to be
exact) Ted McMenamin piloted
117 winners, and during the fol-
lowing 12 months Jack
Thompson won 107 races. The
English record of 269 for one
season (1947) naturally is held
by the one and only Gordon
Richards.
Sydney jockey George Moore,
rode three winners at Canter-
bury Park; now, off for a
spell in New Zealand, he will
“Wait till Daddy loses the fish , then he'll get your
boat, dear."
attend the'N.Z. yearling sales in
mid-January, when 221 colts
and 111 fillies will be offered at
auction. There’ll be a keen
attendance of Australian owners
and trainers.
* * *
After Sedgman and McGregor
had won the first two singles in
straight sets, and had dropped
only one set in the doubles, U.S,
Davis Cup team manager Alrick
Man said he could not recall any
previous occasion when the
defending team in a challenge
round led by such a big margin
at the end of the second day’s
play, having dropped only one
set. At least one of the spec-
tators in Adelaide could have
reminded him.
That was Gerald Patterson,
one of Australia’s quartet of
Wimbledon winners. Patterson
wouldn’t be likely to forget the
challenge round of 1924, when
the perennial rivals, Australia
and U.S.A., met in Philadelphia.
That year Australia won only
one set in the entire rubber.
On the first day Tilden beat
Patterson 6-4, 6-2, 6-2 and V.
Richards beat Pat O’Hara Wood
6-3, 6-2, 6-4. On the second
day Patterson and O’Hara Wood
made their supreme effort when
they took the first set of the
doubles 7-5 from Tilden and
Johnston. But the Americans
took the following three sets
6-3, 6-4, 6-1, and on the final
day Tilden and Richards again
won their singles in straight sets.
That result holds its place in
the record-books as about the
severest thrashing ever handed
out in a Davis Cup challenge
round, though only by a narrow
margin from the hiding the Aus-
tralians, with the boot on the
other foot, gave the Americans
in Sydney in 1909. On that
occasion, too, the losers won
only one set, but some of the set
scores were rather closer than in
the 1924 debacle.
Australia also has the dubious
distinction of having been on
the receiving end of the worst
belting ever suffered by the
defending country in a challenge
round. That was, of course, in
Melbourne in 1946, when Aus-
tralia won only two sets—those
won by Bromwich in his five-set
match with Schroeder.
Still, we can claim a few
entries on the credit side. Aus-
tralia is the only country to have
won a challenge round after
dropping the first two singles.
That was in 1939, and Bromwich,
who was instrumental in that
fine effort, has another claim to
fame —as one of the only three
or four players who have won a
Cup match by the absolute
shortest route, 6-0, 6-0, 6-0.
Brom. did it to an unfortunate
Mexican in the same year, 1939.
• • • •
Australia can also claim the
most overwhelming victory in
Cup history. It was adminis-
tered, in 1924, to China, by
Patterson and O’Hara Wood,
who were to go on to a spot of
suffering themselves as men-
tioned earlier. The Australia-
China scores of 1924 are worth
putting on record: Patterson d.
Lock Wei, 6-1, 6-2, 6-2; Pat-
terson d. Kong, 6-0, 6-0, 6-2;
O’Hara Wood d. Lock Wei,
6-0, 6-0, 6-2 ; O’Hara Wood d.
Kong, 6-0, 6-1, 6-2; Patterson-
O’Hara Wood d. Lock Wei-
Huang, 6-1, 6-2, 6-0. The
Honorable Ancestors weren’t
pulling too well that day—ls
games in five matches, an aver-
age of one game per set.
And now Australia has won
the 1952 challenge round. Aus-
tralia for a couple of years
has been enjoying one of those
periods in which, for the nonce,
it has had—maybe, despite the
departure of Sedgman and
McGregor, still has —the best
players in the world. Other
countries have had such periods.
France once, Britain twice and
America several times. Those
four, oddly, are the only
countries which have held the
Cup in its half-century of com-
petition during which the
astonishing total of 44 countries
have competed. The list is worth
reciting. Alphabetically:
Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Belgium, Brazil, Britain, Canada,
Chile, China, Cuba, Czecho-
slovakia, Denmark, Egypt,
Estonia, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Hawaii,
Hungary, India, Ireland, Italy,
Japan, Luxemburg, Mexico,
Monaco, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Pakistan,
Paraguay, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Rumania, South
Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzer-
land, Turkey, Uruguay, U.S.A.
and Yugoslavia.
Oddly, yet in a way appro-
priately, the most regular com-
petitor in the Cup has not been
the donor country, America, but
the country which did, after all,
invent the game —Britain, with
41 appearances. America has
competed 38 times, Australia and
France deadbeat with 33, and
Belgium, which of all countries
deserves a win, 26 times. U.S.A.
heads the winners’ list with 16
wins, Australia has just moved
into second-place with 10 wins
to Britain’s nine, and France is
credited with six, all in a row.
Australia has the Cup for
another year, but, with our win-
ning team of Sedgman and Mc-
Gregor lost to the pro. ranks,
and with America also doing a
bit of a scratch for material, this
year’s competition could be the
most interesting for many a day.
Meanwhile it is to be hoped that
the L.TA. authorities will need
no urging to send at least Rose,
Rosewall and Hoad for an over-
seas tour, preferably under the
guidance of the wily Hopman.
* * *
Catching Hassett’s Aussies a
bit otf-balance, the Springboks
took out the second Test, with
82 runs separating ’em. On the
day the S’Africans proved the
better side —big factors in their
win a great bowling effort by
off-spinner Tayfield, excellent
fielding and, Endean’s long in-
nings in their second dash. S.
Africa 227 (Murray 51 ; Miller
4-62) and 388 (Endean 162 n. 0.,
; Waite 62); Australia 243 (Mc-
Donald 82, Miller 52; Tayfield
6-84) and 290 (Harvey 60, Ring
53 ; Tayfield 7-81).
The Hassetts are all due to
face the starter again when the
third dispute between the parties
comes up for decision in Sydney
on Friday. The selectors failed
to be panicked by one defeat-
only the third in 33 post-war
Tests.
In the New Year’s Honors, an
M.B.E. to Australian Test
skipper Lindsay Hassett. Skipper
since S’ Donald turned it in after
the 1948 tour of England,
Hassett has played in 35 Tests
in all, and made over 2000 runs
in them ; in all first-class cricket
he has notched 50 centuries.
He’s been to England twice, and
looks pretty certain to go a third
time. A real sportsman, genial
and likeable, popular with both
team-mates and opponents.
After the Test the S’Africans
took on N.S.W., were sent in
on a “batsman’s wicket” and
were all out four short of 200.
Skipper Cheetham top-score
with 64 n.o. N.S.W. then went
to a first-innings lead. Young
Craig, with the aplomb of a
veteran most of his innings,
made an unconquered double-
century, and appears to have
arrived on the Australian cricket-
ing scene to stay. Miller, bat-
ting down the list and not as
dashing as usual, got second-top
score (58).
Vic. and S. Aus. were also
battling away at the weekend.
Advantage see-sawed. Hassett
(for Vic.) and Hole (for S. Aus.)
made centuries. For Vic. a fine
first-innings bowling effort by
St. Kilda spinner Hill (7-51).
S. Aus., beating Queensland by
131 runs, gained its third suc-
cessive outright win. S. Aus. 221
(Ridings 90; Smith 5-85) and
9-295, closed (Pinch 84, Ridings
74; R. Archer 6-80); Q. 249
(Noblet 5-73) and 136 (Wilson
6-55).
* * * *
Idle thought of an idle fellow:
Bradman, Hopman, Sedgman,
Lind —no, Walter doesn’t fit in.
A pity.


FRENCH
ICorn Cure 1
Cures Callouses and Corns
s Availnhle at
Anthony Horderns’ |
CARRY THE
BURDEN
mm
Established 180 S in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
(England)
N.S.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Old Jimbour and the Darling Downs
A Queensland Speaker
By G. H. ROUTLEY
The second and concluding instalment of this
first-hand account of a notable station property
and its people closely linked with Queensland’s
Darling Downs.
MR. JOSHUA PETER
BELL had a most
distinguished Parlia-
mentary career. He first
entered Parliament on a
by-election at Ipswich in
1863, and he took over the
Treasury in the Herbert Ministry
from his brother -in - law,
Thomas De Lacy Moffat, who
owned Cumkillenbar at that
time.
Charles Coxen, who first
settled at Myall Creek (Dalby
now) in the early ’forties, was
the first member for the
Northern Downs, as the electo-
rate was then known. Mr,
Coxen was followed by Mr.
Harry Thorn, of Cobble Cobble,
afterwards Warra. In 1864 Mr.
Bell contested the seat against
Thorn and won in. great style.
We are told there were seven
public-houses in Dalby at the
time and that Bell engaged four
of them and Thorn the other
three, and free drinks were in
order at every meeting before
the election and polling-day;
also that on the afternoon of
polling-day the Jimbour four-in-
hand drove in with Mrs. Bell,
escorted by sixty Jimbour em-
ployees riding two abreast, horse
and men decorated with colored
ribbons in cerise and white (the
Bell colors). It would surely
be a block vote.
The electorate name was after-
wards changed to Dalby and
Mr. Joshua P. Bell represented
it right throughout his lifetime.
He occupied nearly every Cabinet
portfolio in his time, being
Treasurer on several occasions,
Minister for Lands, Speaker,
President of the Legislative
Council, an# finally Acting-
Governor. He was knighted in
1879, and became Sir Joshua
Peter.
My father left Jimbour in
1868, about the time the railway
arrived in Dalby. He told me
that at that time there were three
overseers on Jimbour. Mr.
James Harris was at Broadmead,
Mr. Geo. Donald was at Coo-
range, and he himself was
stationed at Mallakoff.
There were 300,000 sheep on
the run then, and he had 96,000
under him. Jimbour must have
been at the zenith of its fame
about that time.
There was quite a little town
at the station homestead; a
church, school, butcher’s and
blacksmith’s shops, a general
store, men’s quarters —and hous-
ing for the married employees ;
also a travellers’ hut, especially
for swagmen and travellers,
where they could draw rations
free and have accommodation
if they needed it. They even
had a cook to provide meals.
Mr. Bell was outstanding in his
generosity. On one occasion
‘Ashton’s Circus came to Dalby
and he hired the whole outfit to
go to Jimbour and give a free
performance for all the station
people. It cost him £3O.
About 1866 there was a sharp
financial crisis. The Hon. J, P.
Bell was Queensland’s Treasurer
at the time, and he proposed to
issue a Government currency.
The Governor, Sir G. Bowen,
vetoed it, and there was a great
ruction over Bell’s “greenbacks.”
Petitions were circulated for
presentation to the Queen to
have the Governor removed.
However, they seemed to get
over the difficulty afterwards by
selling the Crown leases to the
lessees, and this is how, it would
appear, the huge freeholds came
into existence on the Downs.
Some of them consisted of up
to 130,000 and 140,000 acres.
In 1870 Mr. Bell had built a
two-story house of stone to re-
place the slab house which Was
the first residence of the Bells
on Jimbour and which was burnt
down in 1867 (probably this was
built by Scougall, the first
owner). This stone building
acted afterwards as a kitchen
and maids’ quarters to the big
house, with which it was con-
nected by a covered passage-
way.
The famous mansion, Jimbour
House, was started in 1874 and
finished in 1877. There were
about 200 workmen engaged in
building it, and it cost nearly
£30,000. It was built of sand-
stone quarried at Bungeenie
Scrub, about six miles from the
site, and all timber —cedar, hoop-
and bunya-pine—came from the
Bunya Mountains about 30
miles away.
Jimbour House consisted of
about 25 rooms, was of two
stories, and was roofed with
Slates. The rooms were spacious
and high-ceiled, with plaster and
with cornices and gaseliers fixed-
in. Some rooms were enlarged
by wide bay-windows, and all
opening by French lights onto
the balcony or lower veranda,
as well as into one of the long,
wide corridors which ran the
full-length of the building, up-
stairs and down.
The ballroom was situated at
the eastern end. In the middle
of each corridor was a large
fireplace, as there was in nearly
every room. Some of these had
beautiful ornamental fireplaces
made from white granite ; others
were of lovely cedar. The floor-
ing and skirting were also of this
timber. The ballroom had a
large oriel-window opening onto
the end veranda, and French
lights onto the front veranda
and lawn.
Pillars and palisading extended
right along the front and end
verandas, and above this a long
balcony extended along the top
of the front veranda. From this
balcony a fine view could be
obtained of the vast plains and
distant blue hills and mountains.
Practically all the furniture
was made on the station by Mr,
Bell’s cabinetmakers from Bunya
Mountains cedar, some of it very
fine pieces.
Water from a well nearby was
pumped into a large tank on
a high tower, whence it was led
to all parts of the house. The
windmill that pumped this water
was the first mill erected on the
Downs.
Gas for the lighting of the
house was obtained from a seam
of very good coal found and
mined nearby. The mansion
had its gardens and orchard and
beautiful lawns laid out, and
gardeners were kept to look after
them.
[The writer here quotes some
Bell family details provided in
an interview by Miss Jane Max-
well, who went to Jimbour in
1863 as nurse to “Master Joey,”
who was born there in March
that year.]
In 1881 Master Joey went to
Cambridge University. In
December of the same year he
got a cable message that his
father, who had been Deputy-
Governor, had died.
Miss Maxwell said Sir Joshua
died in Brisbane just after re-
turning from seeing the Mel-
bourne Cup. It was five days
before Christmas, and Lady Bell
was at the time in Forsyth’s shop
buying toys for a children’s party
at Jimbour. Sir Joshua was
Half a page of Mr. Routley’s MS. (the paragraph was
printed in the previous instalment). The writer is 87.
driving with a friend in a han-
som-cab in Queen-street when
he suddenly fell forward against
the splashboard. An Irishwoman
came into the shop where Lady
Bell was, and mentioned that Sir
Joshua had just died, not know-
ing that his widow was within
hearing. Miss Maxwell and the
four children went down in a
special train for the funeral,
which took place the next day,
and they all returned to Jimbour
on Christmas Day.
[Jimbour and Cumkillenbar
were merged into the Darling
Downs and Western Lands Co.
about 1883. Ten years later, in
1893, Joshua T. Bell (“Master,”
now “Mr.” Joey) won the Dalby
seat from J. S. Jessop.]
Mr. Joey was a splendid speci-
mah of a typical English gentle-
man, and could haw-haw on
occasion. He wore a monocle
eternally. This was attached to
a long black ribbon, and when
he screwed this glass into his
eye, the better to scrutinise you,
one was compelled to keep a
sober face, but at the same time
you had to realise that you were
in the presence of a highly cul-
tured, always courteous, digni-
fied, somewhat patronising
gentleman, who had a great en-
thusiasm for his job. He made
it a practice to ride around the
electorate during the recess, with
his headquarters at Jimbour,
where the rest of his family were
still residing.
My father had purchased a
property of some 1100 acres
about six miles east of the station
on Moola Creek. It had been
used as a farm where fodder was
grown to feed the stud stock in
at the station, and, being isolated,
was placed on the market for
sale in 1884. It was then known
as the Womboi; we afterwards
changed this name to Craiglea,
and my father placed me in
charge of it.
There was some slight affinity
between Mr. Joey and myself,
both being natives of Jimbour,
and on his rounds of his electo-
rate he used to come over for
a chat and cup of tea.
I remember on one occasion I
called his attention to the way in
which the prickly-pear was
spreading through the Moola
scrubs, telling him it was a pity
to see such good land becoming
infested. He replied:
“Is that a fact, Routley? As I
was coming down the road to-
day I noticed several small
plants, and if I had had an imple-
ment in my hand I would have
been tempted to have got off and
destroyed them.”
He seemed to think all you had
to do was to simply dig them
up.
I also told him emus were the
main cause of spreading the pear,
and he wanted to know if they
couldn’t be shot or trapped.
However, when he was leaving
that day he said:
“I will remember what you
have told me, Routley, and I
will certainly see if something
can’t be done in the mattah.”
This was in the late ’nineties,
about 1897 or 1898. He was
as good as his word, because not
long afterwards the Government
had three good reservoirs sunk
about five miles apart in the
scrub to provide a water-supply,
and next a team of surveyors
appeared and cut the scrub into
320-acre blocks. This land was
then well advertised in the
southern States and as a result
a number of farmers from
Orbost, on the Snowy River, in
Victoria, came up and selected
their blocks. The whole of the
land was taken up by 1901 and
became known as the Snowy
River Settlement.
That was 50 years ago, and
today Moola is one of the safest
districts for dairying and mixed
farming there is in Queensland.
It is able to keep two co-opera-
tive cheese factories in full
production.
Mr. Joey Bell’s undoubted
ability was soon recognised, as
he quickly rose to Cabinet rank,
being Minister for Lands in the
Morgan Ministry in 1903, and
again in the Kidston Ministry
in 1907. He had a well-defined
scheme for the settlement of all
the unoccupied lands in the
Dalby district and a network of
rail-lines to serve them.
About 1908 the Jimbour
estate, then part of the Darling
Downs and Western Land Co.,
was repurchased by the Govern-
ment. The whole of the station
was surveyed and cut up for
closer-settlement. It was well
advertised by the Lands Depart-
ment both in the southern States
and New Zealand and attracted
a good class of settler.
From 1908 to about 1914 Mr.
Bell’s railway scheme came into
operation. The first branch ran
through old Cumkillenbar
station; Kaimkillenbun is so
called in memory of same. An-
other branch-line ran through
about the centre of Jimbour, past
the Bells’ grand old home.
Cecil Plains estate was the next
old station to be repurchased
and settled by the Government.
Other large estates round Dalby,
such as Loudon and Bon Accord,
were subsequently thrown open
by their owners for closer-settle-
ment. During Mr. Joey Bell’s
occupancy as Minister for Lands
in the two succeeding Govern-
ments and onwards till about
1920 would be about the boom
period of land-settlement in the
Dalby district. Over million
acres were settled by over 2000
applicants.
Mr. Joey Bell was elected to
the Speaker’s chair in 1909.
Early in 1910 some of the resi-
dents of the Kaimkillenbun and
surrounding district decided to
build a public hall and school
of arts in Kaimkillenbun. When
it was finished, about the 10th
of May in that year, it was de-
cided to celebrate the opening
with a race-meeting and grand
ball at night to follow.
On the opening day Mr. Bell
came over from Jimbour and
acted as judge at the races. At
the end, when he was about to
leave, I was deputed, as I hap-
pened to be chairman of the
building committee, to ask him
to stay and officially open the
hall at the ball in the evening.
He said that nothing would
give him greater pleasure, but
he was due in Brisbane the next
day to take the chair at a re-
sumed meeting of Parliament.
He also said that he was feeling
extremely unwell himself; in
fact, to use his own words, he
felt “Damned rotten” and he
thought that he had better go
down.
That was the last time we saw
Mr. Joey. A few days after word
came through that he was laid
up in bed seriously ill. He
lingered on until towards the
end of the year, when he died.
Thus these brilliant men, who
had rendered such valuable ser-
vice to the country and were
capable of many more years of
such service, were cut down in
the prime of life, the father at
55, the son at 47.
However, such is life, and
destiny. Their services will
always be remembered in the
chronicles of the State.


A Solicitor to draw
your WILL . . .
=*==s'i:u»
\\
a Trustee
to safeguard your Estate
Only an experienced person can hope to
contend with the complicated problems
and other aspects of a Will and the
administration of an Estate. During your
lifetime, and afterwards, your obligations
to your family or other beneficiaries can
be honoured only by your care now.
The Permanent Trustee Company offers
you the sage counsel of over sixty years’
experience as Executors and Trustees;
offers you the stability and protection of
over £1,000,000 in uncalled capital and
assets.
Avoid unnecessary risks; enjoy peace of
mind and ensure security of your
interests now and always. Appoint the
Permanent Trustee Company as your
Executor and Trustee.
For full details, call in and interview one
of our Executive Officers in confidence
and without obligation; or write for our
free booklet— “ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way (Chairman).
Dr. G. M Barron, 0.8. E.
(V ice-Chairman )
A. E. Bond. J. R. Faviell.
F. B. Fleming. G, B. Kater.
Manager : N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager : F. R. Garland,
Secretary P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector ; Hugh A. Stewart.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-35 O’Connell St., Sydney
PT.74.15
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ODTAA UNLIMITED
In this year of grace 1953
there’ll be more “international
agency” outfits trying to run the
world than ever before.
They’ll be cropping up regu-
larly in the news, usually under
their initials only or those initials
floated into the barbaric words
most of them make: e.g.,
U.N.E.S.C.O. or Unesco.
As an aid to interpreting
cables, radio news and the like,
here is a glossary of some of the
more important of them.
There’ll be many more to add
before the year’s out, of course ;
they haven’t exhausted the
alphabet yet by a long way.
First, some of U.N.O.’s (or
Uno’s or U.N.’s or UN’s) little
lot:
UN —United Nations ; world
organisation; 60 member
nations.
GA —U.N. General Assembly;
deliberative body; one vote per
country.
SC —U.N. Security Council;
“responsible for keeping peace.”
Where Communist nations use
veto ; 11 members.
ECOSOC U.N. Economic
and Social Council; studies liv-
ing conditions, political rights,
other problems; co-ordiniates
minor U.N. agencies.
TC —U.N. Trusteeship Coun-
cil ; deals with problems of
dependent territories.
PCIJ —Permanent Court of
International Justice; world
court; sits at The Hague, Nether-
lands.
UNESCO United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cul-
tural Organisation; “seeks peace
and welfare by exchange of
ideas.”
FAO —Food and Agricultural
studies problems
of feeding world’s peoples.
WHO —World Health Organi-
sation.
IBRD —International Bank for
Reconstruction and Develop-
ment ; makes loans to U.N.O.
member-countries.
IMF—lnternational Monetary
Fund; helps stabilise exchange
rates.
ILO International Labor
Organisation; studies problems
of populations and labor.
ECE —U.N. Economic Com-
mission for Europe; studies
economic problems of Europe.
. ECLA —U.N. Economic Com-
mission for Latin America;
studies economic problems of
Latin America.
ECAFE U.N. Economic
Commission for Asia and Far
East; studies economic problems
of the Orient.
Main economic organisations
outside U.N.0.:
ECSC —European Coal and
Steel Community; pools coal
and steel under the Schuman
Plan ; members are France, West
Germany, Luxembourg, Belgium,
Netherlands, Italy.
OEEC Organisation for
European Economic Co-opera-
tion ; works for higher produc-
tion and closer trade ties among
European countries.
EPU European Payments
Union ; handles monetary prob-
lems among OEEC countries
and the sterling area.
BENELUX—Belgium-Nether-
lands - Luxembourg economic
group.
GATT —General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade; seeks to
lower trade barriers. Aided
initially by U.N.O.
Main political organisations
outside U.N.0.:
COE —Council of Europe ; or-
ganisation of Foreign Ministers
working to unify European
—Belgrade "lez” ( Yugoslavia )
The Pole: “We get on splendidly with the Russians —we send them our coal and they take
our wheat”
NATO countries, plus Sweden
and Ireland.
OAS —Organisation of Ameri-
can States ; consists of 21 Ameri-
can republics,
WFTU—World Federation of
Trade Unions ; Communist labor
organisation.
ICFTU —International Con-
federation of Free Trade
Unions; anti-Communist labor
organisation.
Main military organisations
outside U.N.0.:
NATO —North Atlantic
Treaty Organisation; military
alliance of U.S., Canada, Britain,
France, Portugal, Iceland, Italy,
Luxembourg, Belgium, Nether-
lands, Denmark, Norway,
Greece, Turkey,
NATO COUNClL—Govern-
ing body of NATO.
SHAPE —Supreme Headquar-
ters of Allied Powers in Europe,
NATO military headquarters in
Paris.
SACEUR Supreme Com-
mander of Allied Powers in
Europe, top commander of
SHAPE.
SACLANT —Supreme Allied
Commander in the Atlantic,
commander of NATO forces in
the Atlantic Ocean,
EDC European Defence
Community; proposed European
Army set-up to defend France,
West Germany, Luxembourg,
Belgium, Netherlands, Italy;
planned as part of NATO.
ANZUS —Australia-New Zea-
land-U.S, alliance for Pacific
defence.
U.N.O. as Busybody
Looking at the latest U.N.O.
show, London “Economist”
has especially noted the friction
caused by the now-regular
practice of member-nations mak-
ing out cases against this or that
nation in particular—e.g., against
France and South Africa, and in
the past against the Netherlands
(over Indonesia) and against
Spain.
In these matters (as in most
others) U.N.O. decisions have
been influenced by expediency as
much as by principle.
“Thus, the Dutch claim that
the conflict in Indonesia was a
domestic one was dismissed with
all the more ease because it was
clear that the Netherlands was in
no position to resist international
pressure. In the case of the
Indians in South Africa, the
Assembly at first preferred not
to pronounce on South Africa’s
plea of domestic jurisdiction, but
later declared itself competent to
make recommendations —which
have had no result.
“As to Spain, in 1946 the
Assembly considered the nature
of the Franco regime sufficient
grounds for a recommendation
that all'Ambassadors should be
withdrawn from Madrid ; but in
1950 it quashed this decision,
admitting that its intervention in
Spain’s domestic affairs had been
unjustified.
“Only when the accused nation
is exceptionally altruistic or
exceptionally weak and
friendless,” commented the
“Economist,” “can U.N.O. hope
to impose its will in a matter that
involves domestic jurisdiction.
The system penalises virtue and
weakness, while setting a
premium on ruthlessness and
obstinacy. Totalitarian States are
particularly invulnerable; sealed
off from the world, they can
blandly deny the existence of any
evils alleged against them; and
however hotly their sins are
denounced in the Assembly no
whisper of this criticism will
reach their own peoples.
“Moreover, a premium is also
set on irresponsibility and malice,
A State that wants to make
trouble has nothing to lose by
accusing another of infringing
human rights; the spotlight is
turned on the accused, not on
the plaintiff. Countries such as
Afghanistan or Yemen can
denounce France for giving
inadequate voting rights or
health services to the people of
Morocco, without the least
regard to the possibility that the
Moroccans are better off in this
respect than their own peoples.
“Nations responsible for de-
pendent territories are an obvious
target for attacks in an age in
which ‘colonialism’ is a term of
abuse. In this respect the United
Nations has fallen victim to the
aptly-named ‘saltwater fallacy’—
the idea that any country that
has expanded overseas must
submit JX) a degree of interna-
tional criticism from which
nations whose conquests have
been overland are immune.
“Today there are at least as
many primitive tribes in need of
protection, as many minorities
without political rights, and as
many peasants held in virtual
serfdom in the territories of
those Asian and Latin American
States that term themselves
‘anti-colonial’ as there are in
the dependencies of European
countries. Yet, while the scarcity
of doctors in West Africa and
the conditions of labor in the
South Pacific are regularly sub-
jected to the scrutiny of repre-
sentatives of Asian and Latin
American Governments, those
Governments face no awkward
questions about the slow exter-
mination of Amazonian Indians
or the armed repression of South-
East Asian minorities who claim
their right to self-determination.
Such questions would be
regarded as an intolerable inter-
ference in the private affairs of
sovereign States.
“This lopsided development
has produced its inevitable
results. The nations most subject
to attack have come to regret the
liberal attitudes which have led
them into so much embarrass-
ment, and some of them are on
the verge of retreating into less
co-operative positions. As the
rift widens, the prospects of any
particular case being discussed
on its own merits diminish.
Every time a doctrinaire resolu-
tion explodes futilely against an
equally doctrinaire resistance the
moral authority of the United
Nations suffers, and it is not
heightened by the spectacle of
civilised States being harried by
self-styled champions of human
rights in whose own countries
child marriage, the dungeon and
the secret police are still respect-
able institutions.
“Only one group benefits from
the situation: the group of
totalitarian States, themselves
invulnerable to criticism, totally
unconcerned with human rights
as such, and delighting in every
new division that appears be-
tween their less monolithic
neighbors.”
Ike Policies
In what it publishes as “an
authoritative report on the direc-
tion to be taken by the U.S. in
its world relations once the
Eisenhower Administration
assumes power” a few weeks
hence, “U.S. News and World
Report” says we can expect to
see a more “dynamic” American
policy than Truman’s “negative”
policy of “containment.”
Summed-up in outline from
the report, the new policy in re-
gard to the main points of inter-
national interest will be:
Korea. —To be the No. 1 con-
cern of U.S. so long as war goes
on. Koreans will be trained
rapidly to take over more
ground fighting. U.S. air- and
naval-support operations will be
stepped-up.
* * * *
Europe. —After Korea, the top
U.S. concern. Build-up of mili-
tary power in Western Europe
to be speeded and helped. The
goal to be a gradual lessening
of national barriers to full co-
operation in trade and defence.
$ * * *
Britain. —Close ties to Britain
and her Empire will remain
basic in all U.S. relations with
the world. “Britain, however,
will need to accept the para-
mount concern of the U.S. with
the Far East, where one major
war and another sizeable war
have developed involving the
U.S.”
♦ * ♦ ♦
France. —To be the favored
nation on the Continent. A


MR
Circular Charts for all types
of Recording instruments
tor any class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
J/XCUWW 6 r sluiU VANfIJIi
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
m
This, too, is infidelity
Sometimes infidelity demon-
strates itself in adultery
more often it is nora-adulterous
faithlessness that undermines
marriage, says Rev, Margaret
Johnstone,
In January Reader’s Digest,
she shows how husbands and
wives can be unfaithful with-
out realizing it. (Is a wife,
who nags her husband about
his salary, faithful to her vow
“for richer, for poorer”?
Doesn’t a husband, who' puts
his mother’s feelings above his
wife’s, break his promise to
“forsake all others”?)
Learn the danger signs to
watch for in your marriage.
January Reader’s Digest
brings you 35 stimulating
articles condensed from the
world's leading magazines and
books. One and sixpence —-at
all newsagents and bookstalls.
strong France is desired by the
U.S. as the major base for the
defence of Europe and as an
ally in North Africa.
J ** * *
Germany. —German rearma-
ment is regarded as vital. Ger-
many, weak, is exposed and
open to Russian moves. It is
the key to Europe. Basic U.S,
policy outlook here is that it is
imperative tq tie the Germans
strongly to the West and to
have them strong.
* * * *
Japan. —U.S. will lend aid in
rearmament, permit Japan to be-
come a major arms base in the
par East, but there is no pre-
sent intention to use Japanese
troops on Asian continent.
* * *
China. —Some restraints to be
taken off Chiang Kai-shek.
Permit Nationalist Chinese to
harass the Communist main-
land, create diversions, add to
Communist problems.
* * * *
Eastern Europe. Russian
domination of this area will
never formally be accepted' by
the U.S. Peoples now held
under Russia’s sway will be en-
couraged to aspire to eventual
independence.
* * * *
Middle East. —Turkey will
continue to be aided. “The fate
of Persia will be of important
concern, not something to be
accepted lightly.” Communist
penetration in the Middle East
is to be opposed. There will be
a definite effort at settling dif-
ferences between Arab nations
and Israel.
The Royal Title
By way of a happy solution of
the ticklish problem of what the
Royal title should be following
the various and sweeping changes
in the British Commonwealth
and Empire, the recent Common-
wealth Conference in London
formally decided that
it would be in accord with _ the
established constitutional position
(hat each member-country should use
for its own purposes a form of title
which suits its own particular cir-
cumstances but retains a substantial
element which is common to all.
This should allow all hands
to please themselves. And
(“Manchester Guardian” points
out), however the particular
member describes the Queen’s
own relation to it, it agrees to
describe her also as Queen “of
her other realms and territories”
and “Head of the Common-
wealth.”
The Canadian style, the
“Guardian” further notes, in-
cludes “the charming phrase
‘Supreme Liege Lady in and over
Canada.’ ”
Generally, the divergencies are
subtle. Canada, Australia and
New Zealand come nearest to the
old style by adding their names
after the United Kingdom.
South Africa and Ceylon leave
out specific mention of the
United Kingdom ; the Sovereign
is “Queen of South Africa” and
“Queen of Ceylon,”
Pakistan ignores any special
relationship, describes the Queen
by almost her British title, and
covers itself under the all-
embracing “Head of the Com-
monwealth.”
Only the United Kingdom and
the three Dominions of primarily
British colonisation keep
Defender of the Faith. This,
says the “Guardian,” is natural
enough; “Dr. Malan is certainly
neither an Anglican nor a Roman
Catholic ; his Protestantism is of
an even more ferocious and
fundamentalist brand than any-
thing we [British] can raise.
Pakistan and Ceylon have other
faiths. But so the evolution goes
on.
“Republics can accommodate
themselves under the grand
umbrella; they have only to
acknowledge the Queen as ‘Head
of the Commonwealth’ and all
will be well. This, apparently, is
India’s position although it does
not adopt a style of its own.
Even Mr. De Valera could now
return to the fold without any
stretching of his legalistic
conscience.”
The changes are designed to
conciliate and prevent friction:
“The Commonwealth is what its
members make it; the Crown is
a .»submissive instrument. It
matters little to the Sovereign
what the peoples of her Com-
monwealth call her so long as
they are loyal to the great society
of which they are members.
The key words in the royal title
are now less the acknowledgment
of the Sovereign as Queen than
as the ‘Head of the Common-
wealth.’ This is the cement
which binds.”
Dulles
Noting that the mandate of
the American Presidential elec-
tion was, above all else, “Win
the Cold War,” and holding that
this can be done without a
third world war, leading
American political writer David
Lawrence comments:
“But it requires a completely
different attitude toward world
policies at top levels. It neces-
sitates an imaginative approach
and a co-ordination of all our
[U.S.] programmes toward the
same objective. Fortunately,
John Foster Dulles, designated
as Secretary of State, knows
that subject thoroughly. No
better man could have been
picked for the post.
“For Mr. Dulles is an Ameri-
can first, last and all the time,
and this means that the United
States will insist on mutuality
and reciprocity in the world
hereafter. It will not be con-
tent to drift along on a go-it-
alone basis. Failure to assert
effective leadership not only has
threatened our [U.S.] fiscal
stability but it has failed to pro-
duce any real alliance among
the free nations.”
Dufies should figure quite a
lot in the news this year.
Lawrence and many other
American political commenta-
tors expect that the U.S, under
Eisenhower will soon be imple-
menting a much more active
foreign policy.
Slim and Harding
London “Time and Tide,” on
the man who will now be Aus-
tralia’s Governor-General:
“Bill Slim is one of the more
remarkable men of our time ;
pupil-teacher and not markedly
successful office junior in the
years before 1914, he was of
that first generation of civilian
volunteer soldiers who held the
pass in World War I. At the end
of it, still a very young man, he
took a regular commission in
the old Indian Army.
“The values which Bill Slim,
as a soldier and as a man, prac-
tises and preaches so steadily
and quietly are, it is worth re-
marking, the values of that mag-
nificent body of men. The old
Indian Army was, in peace and
in war, a comradeship of good
brave men of many races, many
creeds and many tongues, such
as our world will probably never
look on again. It owed its
spirit to regimental officers like
Bill Slim.
“That Army’s apotheosis and
ultimate historical justification
was World War 11, in which it
expanded to become the greatest
totally volunteer Army ever
known. With the end of the
Raj and the partition of the
sub-continent, that great Army
was destroyed.' Its traditions
live on, we are assured, in the
armies of the successor States.
But under a C.1.G.5., bred in
and risen from the Indian Army,
those traditions and values
formed a miraculous rebirth in
the new model British Army.
Miraculous —and providential.”
On Field-Marshal Sir William
Slim’s successor as C.1.G.5.,
London “Observer” notes:
“For the first time in the
history of the British Army, an
officer who began his military
career as a Territorial has be-
come Chief of the Imperial
General Staff.
“General Sir John Harding,
the new C.1.G.5., did not become
a soldier by design. Born in
1896 of West Country yeoman
stock, he wanted to be a farmer,
but his father —a solicitor’s clerk
in South Petherton, Somerset —
could not finance this ambition,
and his formal schooling ended
at the age of 15 when he left
Ilminster Grammar School. In
—“Washington Post”
“Come in—good to see you!”
1912, however, he passed the
Civil Service Entrance Examina-
tion and obtained a job in Lon-
don as a clerk in the Post Office
Savings Bank at 15 shillings a
week.
“When he came to London,
Harding had no interest in the
Army, but in the Savings Bank
he met an enthusiastic Terri-
torial, James Maxwell, who in-
duced him to join the Finsbury
Rifles, the 11th Battalion of the
County of London Yeomanry.
In May, 1914, soon after his
eighteenth birthday, Harding
was commissioned as a Second
Lieutenant in the Territorial
Army, and with the Finsbury
Rifles he landed on Gallipoli in
August, 1915, as a platoon com-
mander.”
Finding that sample to his
taste, he became a regular and
stuck to soldiering as a profes-
sion.
A Crimeless Press
Holding that “a nation’s
Press, no matter how muzzled
it is, will ultimately give away
the true nature of social and
political conditions in the coun-
try,” a “World Review” writer,
Bruce Renton, surveying the
Yugoslav Press in particular,
finds as the most striking thing
about it “a trait common to all
East European Commupist
newspapers”—no crime reports!
There is, he points out, never
any news about criminals —at
least not in the Western sense.
Nobody steals hens or purses or
commits murders in the New
Yugoslavia, or, of course, any-
where else in the New Eastern
Europe; at any rate, not in its
Press.
The only people arrested in
the last seven years in Tito’s
land, it would appear, were
people like Archbishop Stepinac
and the Minister Hebrang (pro-
Cominform).
True, last June the Belgrade
court sentenced to death four
workers from the “Electro-
serbia” factory, who were
accused of having stolen 35,000
kilograms of wire. But in Yugo-
slavia, as it would be in all Com-
munist societies, this was not
considered “theft” but “sabo-
tage” ; and for sabotage, not
“theft,” the death sentence fol-
lowed. And news of sabotage
trials must occasionally be pub-
lished in the Press as a warning
to the rest of the population.
In general, however, “The
Communists seem to consider
that a Utopia has been achieved
when news of unpleasant events
has been removed from the
Press. People who cause street
accidents or fires, moreover, are
enemies of the people, and it is
not wise to let the population
know just how many enemies of
the people exist.
“Communists simply do not
admit that accidents can happen.
In their persecution mania they
are convinced that it all boils
down to sabotage. For instance,
at Split in 1949 the trans-
atlantic passenger - ship Parti-
zanka caught fire. Split prison
was immediately filled with sus-
pected saboteurs, some of whom
only had the misfortune to live
in the neighborhood of the
docks. There was no mention
in the Press of either the fire or
the arrests. The people were not
released until it was found that
a short-circuit had caused the
fire.”
Chiang
Contrary to what many may
have been led to accept, Ameri-
cans are by no means unanimous
in support of Chiang Kai-shek
and his aims.
Thus, Detroit “News” echoes
widely-expressed opinion in com-
menting :
“The interests of Chiang and
of the United States are by no
means identical; in one vital
particular they are diametrically
opposed,
“Chiang’s one object is to
regain control in China, no
matter the cost to the outside
world.
“He has continued to preach
to his following that World War
111 is coming, and with it will
arrive the day of Nationalist
opportunity.
“Given authority to proceed
against the mainland, he would
have every reason to broaden
the intervention, rather than to
limit his enterprise. To involve
the United States fully would be
the ultimate insurance for his
ambitions.
“No greater licence for mis-
chief-making could be imagined
than to give this man his head
and await the consequences.”
As for Chiang’s military
strength, of which fabulous ac-
counts have been published:
“Chiang has a ‘palace guard’
of two regiments which are
hand-picked, bright and beauti-
ful. These fellows are invariably
trotted out on parade as being
representative of the whole, and
the act is staged in such a way
as to make it quite convincing.
This is a trick not unknown to
other military leaders.”
Various Voices
General Templer: “I know
nothing about Mau Mau. I have
employed collective punishment
three times. In my opinion it
has paid dividends —big ones —
each time.”
Dr. Hans Thirring, one of
Europe's leading atomic scien-
tists: “At the end of a full-
fledged atomic war the differ-
ence between victor and van-
quished will be only that the
latter is 100 per cent, annihi-
lated, and the other 95 per cent.
At the present stage of destruc-
tive weapons, even a tenfold
superiority in atomic armament
could not protect the cities and
industrial centres of the stronger
State from being destroyed by
the weaker enemy launching a
limited number of A-bombs with
guided missiles.”
Lord Halifax: “Human beings
are of such infinite variety that
they do not fit into bureaucratic
pigeonholes.”
Admiral Alan G. Kirk (former
U.S. Ambassador to the Soviet );
“I recall some years ago when
in Belgium that a very wise and
distinguished diplomatist re-
marked that the people deserved
an explanation of why the
democratic form of government
was better than Communism.
This holds true, it seems to me,
and more and more thought
might well be given to preparing
convincing replies in simple
terms, to those garbled and
tortured claims put forth by
Communists.”
Senator Tom Connally (chair-
man of U.S. Senate Committee
on Foreign Relations) : “Within
the available resources depleted
by two world wars, and despite
10 years of austere living condi-
tions, the British people are mak-
ing a superior defence effort....
The effectiveness of their Army,
Navy and Air Force is limited
not by factors of morale,
command or training, which are
excellent, but by shortages in
equipment and in logistic
resources.”
Field-Marshal Papagos (in an
interview): “A British base in
the Suez Canal zone is essential
to the defence of Greece and
the Eastern Mediterranean, just
as Greece, in turn, is essential to
the defence of the Suez Canal
base.”
Prime Minister Nazimuddin,
of Pakistan : “Once the Kashmir
dispute is settled I am certain
that all other Indo-Pakistan dis-
putes, serious and seemingly
insoluble as they are at present,
will be easily resolved. Indo-
Pakistan relations will then be
placed on a friendly and natural
footing, for situated as they are
the two countries must co-
operate with each other in the
interests of their own security
and the promotion of Asiatic
stability or perish.”


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JACK KERR BEAOHER late of
Bolton Point Toronto via Newcastle.—
TAKE NOTICE that OLORIA BEACHER
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3965
of 1952 on the ground of habitual
drunkenness and cruelty during three
years and upwards and is asking for the
exercise of the Court’s discretion under
S. 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 9th March 1953 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
HUNT & HUNT, Solicitors, of 15 Bligh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
make tracks now, or we can
watch till daylight. Personally,
I say let’s wait till daylight and
have a good look at the sur-
roundings. If there’s a mob of
Nips here we’re gone, anyway,
whether we move now or next
Boxing Day. If there’s one Nip
he would be more trouble to us
probably on the move than as
we are now, watching. I say sit
tight and wait till morning. I
want to have a good look round
in daylight.”
“Ray may have got him with
that wild burst,” suggested
Asford.
“I wonder could it be a
boong?” said Red,
“I’ve never heard of a boong
killing that way,” I said ; and
even as I spoke a picture of
Shard’s dead face rose up clearly
in my mind, and I realised that
I was urging the others to stay
partly because somewhere in my
mind was the absolute certainty
that Woolcott was a murderer.
When we consulted Woolcott
he was strongly for our shoul-
dering our burdens and moving
off at once. He became almost
frantic in his arguments when
he realised that the three of us
were determined to see the night
out where we were. At one
stage he became so excited that
I feared he would wrap up his
swag and tramp away alone
through the darkness ; but sud-
denly his arguments ceased, and
he seemed to slump in resigna-
tion to the majority decision.
That interminably impatient
night! That impenetrable gloom
of fearsome jungle that sur-
rounded us! What hordes of
spectres I saw approaching us
on every hand! What eerie sym-
phonies I heard whining and
wailing on the wings of the regu-
lar jungle chorus! What grisly
presences I felt with every ex-
pansion and contraction of my
pores and every ebb and flow of
my bloodstream! Red and
Asford were lucky. They had
had sound sleep.
After the cruel forced march
of the day before I had not
closed my eyes ; I had scarcely
rested; in addition, the fever I
had felt during the march had
steadily mounted; and, to cap
all, the constant wrestling of my
credulity on the one hand and
my better judgment on the other
in the matter of Woolcott’s guilt
or innocence threatened to bring
my mind to the verge of prostra-
tion. Red and Asford had one
care —the danger that threatened
from the jungle ; I had that, too,
but, in addition, I had to watch
Woolcott; and because Red and
Asford were innocent of all sus-
picion, I had to watch on their
behalf, too, never allowing my
attention to slip for an instant
from the suspect, always ready
to deal with any move that might
imperil us. As for Woolcott
himself, I was too far gone in
fatigue and illness to consider
his plight, whether he was blame-
less or not.
At first light we made a
systematic search of the locality,
but found nothing to help us.
There were no traces at all of
the nocturnal attack on us; not
a mark or disfigurement on the
jungle that was significant. Only
the body of John Mayling with
the lethal stake lying beside it
bore witness to the murder that
had happened.
Before the sun was up we
had buried the body, partaken
of a hasty meal and resumed our
trek, Red in advance with the
tommy-gun, Asford at the rear
and Woolcott and I in the
middle, myself careful to en-
sure that Woolcott was always
in front of me. Before setting
out I had stolen the opportunity
of rendering Woolcott’s revolver
harmless by hastily knocking the
firing-pin out of alignment. It
had taken a great effort of
conscience on my part to do
this, and all day I could not bring
myself to being happy about it.
Woolcott was energetic enough,
and, as usual, eager to be off,
but he looked grey and haggard,
and there was a wild look about
his eyes I did not like. Not
once did he speak during the first
hour of marching, and I was so
worried with my own thoughts
that I did not speak to him.
'T'HREE times during the
A morning we ran into small
boong parties which each time
seemed to surprise us, then,
being surprised in turn, some-
how melted off the track, and let
us pass in silence. Only Red
caught glimpses of them, and the
encounters were so eerie that be-
fore midday, in my heightened
fever, I began to feel that we
were marching between long
rows of a boong guard-of-honor.
At 1300 hours we left the
track and set up camp, intending
to sleep till dark and then to
resume our march. By this time
I was lightheaded to such an
extent that I was uncertain on
my feet. I decided to say some-
thing to Red about my worries.
I could not bring myself to
divulge my real suspicions, so
I said to Red:
“I’ve just about had it, Red,”
I said. “I’m sick, and you might
find that tomorrow I’ll be a cot-
case. I’ll try not to be, but if
the wog’s in earnest you can’t
win. So you’d better take over
now. There’s one thing you and
Asford haven’t seen today be-
cause you haven’t been with
Woolcott. I’ve been with him all
the time, and he seems a bit
troppo. He’s talking about home
as if we were walking along
George-street. I think that epi-
sode last night played up on
him. He’s wild about the eyes,
and I think he needs watching.
You’ve seen them run amuck. Be
careful, Red, for his sake, your
own and ours.”
We talked the matter over as
Red ministered to my fever,
tucking me in, as it were, on my
groundsheet and dosing me, as
was his wont, with everything
we had, quinine, atebrin, sulpha-
diazine and the rest. Red prom-
ised to tell Asford of my
opinion, and he promised that
Woolcott would always be
guarded; but when he left me
I feared I had not convinced
him of the seriousness of the
matter. I began vaguely to won-
der if Red had assumed that my
advice was issuing from a
fevered mind, and worried be-
cause I should perhaps have
revealed my real suspicions.
Then, amid the sweltering
undergrowth, I fell to not caring
a great deal. An unbearable
load seemed to have dropped
from my shoulders, and I simply
let myself drift into the dream-
world between reality and fan-
tasy. I found myself vaguely
conscious of the presence of my
three companions, but there no
longer seemed any great need to
watch Woolcott. Life and death,
accident and murder seemed
trivial matters floating like dust-
particles in a sunbeam.
I began to have nightmares.
I realised it was dark, and I was
swaying about brushed by leaves
on each side. Suddenly I per-
ceived that a wounded Jap in a
loincloth was lying suspended
face-downward in the air above
me, rocking about as I was rock-
ing and moving forward at the
speed I was moving. I knew he
was the Jap who had escaped
us. He had his arms outstretched
with the palms showing as if he
wanted to assure me that he was
unarmed, and he seemed to
whisper in sing-song fashion;
“Honorable gentleman of
Australia. You see I come in
peace. I would not harm you.
I did not harm your companions.
Indeed, I come to help you. I
warn you that your dishonorable
enemy, the impetuous one, is
about to kill you. You are ill,
you cannot walk, you are a bur-
den. Your enemy is fearful of
capture. He would hurry back
to safety. So he will kill you
that he may live, just as he
killed your honorable friends,”
This fearsome image pursued
me, in darkness and in light,
sometimes shifting its position
to either side of my trundling
bunk, or underneath me, but
always hoarsely whispering its
warning. Then abruptly it would
die, and I would see it in death,
sometimes squatting grotesquely
against a tree, sometimes
slumped face-down in a ditch,
but always with this inscription
painted in white on its yellow
forehead: “Ito Mitaguchi, the
much-maligned one.” And then
there would flash to my eyes
the vision of two mounds in a
jungle patch with, standing be-
tween them, a white cross bear-
ing these words in bright red:
“Rupert Shard and John May-
ling, struck down by the hand
of their companion,”
When these dreadful images
finally dwindled away I began
to be faintly aware that at times
the stolid heat was eased or the
giddying pitching halted, and
somebody was standing near me
touching my head and pushing
down my chin.
It was at one such halt, dif-
ferent from all preceding ones
because it registered itself on my
mind from without rather than
from within, I came rushing out
of a deep sleep to see Ray Wool-
cott kneeling over me in broad
daylight reaching outstretched
fingers towards my throat. I
came up from my groundsheet
like a demon, catching him by
surprise so that he fell side-
ways with me on top of him; I
“Mine tinkit about nine miles, boss."
struck him weakly on the face,
grasped his throat and would
have choked him if Red and
Asford had not prised loose my
hands and lifted me bodily from
the encounter.
“You silly beggar,” said Red,
“lie down and take your medi-
cine.”
THEY laid me back on my
groundsheet, but I stood up
again. I was weak, but I was
better. The wog had left me.
“Why didn’t you stop him?”
I muttered to Red. “I told you
this morning to watch him.”
“Take it easy, Bert,” said Red,
grasping my arm. “That was
three days ago. We’ve been
carrying you ever since, and
Woolcott has been your chief
wet-nurse. He was only spong-
ing you off a bit.”
Woolcott, who had not heard
this exchange, now approached
me and said “Sorry I startled
you, Bert! You look a lot better
now.”
What revulsion I felt as he
touched my hand! How I
longed to strike him in the
middle of the smile he wore!
How I wished to shout out the
story of his guilt! For the fever
had left me with a firm convic-
tion that he was a murderer. I
put my right hand on my re-
volver-butt as I experienced a
wave of giddiness from the very
intensity of my feelings. Then
to my ringing ears came the
mournful sound of a long “coo-
ee!”
My first fear was that 1
imagined the sound; but by the
behavior of my companions I
immediately knew that was not
so. Red and Asford instinctively
went for the guns and moved to
the edge of our clearing, and
Woolcott, his useless revolver in
his hand, stood still and intent
with his back to me, as if he
would guard and protect me.
The “cooee” was not repeated.
I knew it had issued from close
near by.
“You’re in no condition for
trouble,” Woolcott whispered
back at me. “Better sit down or
lie down, Bert.”
At that moment I had the great
temptation to shoot him in the
back. There flashed through my
mind visions of Japs moving on
to our position cooeeing for
good measure, and a voice
seemed to urge me: “If there
is any shooting, you know your
target.”
Then I heard Red give vent to
a “cooee” himself and call out
something I could not under-
stand ; and almost immediately
afterwards the entire surrounding
jungle seemed to be swarming
with grinning black men armed
with rifles and Owen guns.
I think I must have swooned
with weakness, for I can only
vaguely recall the welter of
movement and sound that fol-
lowed, The first moment of
which I have a clear recollection
was when I lay on my back on
my groundsheet gazing up at a
sea of faces looking down on me
and listening to Red saying;
“Bert! This is Johnson.”
A ND so it was —the squat, de-
hydrated, dour Johnson,
who, wandering about Bougain-
ville with his devoted boongs,
during the preceding two years
had dispatched more Japs and
scared more, too, than the entire
3rd Division was destined to do
in the next three months. It
certainly was Johnson, standing
meekly and. falteringly explain-
ing the position, just managing to
prevent himself from begging
our pardon for his intrusion.
What joy and relief I felt as I
looked up at this legendary
figure! I felt like a baby who
has been lost, and Johnson sud-
denly appeared to me as my
fond mother into whose scrawny,
black arms I longed to climb so
that I might experience those
priceless comforts of safety and
peace. Even though we were still
a hundred miles inside enemy
territory, all our dangers seemed
past; everything would go well
because we had found poor little
Johnson, the scourge of the
jungle.
In my joy I watched Johnson
as he made his explanations and
listened attentively to Red's
story. Jim Vyner and Martin
Gill stood near by with Woolcott
and Asford, conversing happily.
As they talked, occasionally
addressing me, I felt the strength
of security circulating through-
out my emaciated frame ; and
then I heard Johnson say drily:
-“We’ve been on your track for
two days. Yesterday we found
Mayling’s grave. Near by,
evidently outside the range of
your search, we found the Jap
who killed him. lire Nip had
old wounds on his thigh and
hand, but he had apparently died
from a bullet in the chest—one
of Woolcott’s strays, I suppose.
He was still carrying three of
his sharpened sticks.”
AS Johnson went on, I looked
at Woolcott, and he, as if he
sensed my gaze, looked back at
me and grinned, and I could have
sobbed from the shame and
remorse and relief I felt.
Woolcott, as if he knew my
distress and wished to assuage it,
moved over to me and grasped
my arm as I made to rise, and at
that moment I could have kissed
his hand in repentance and
gratitude.
HORIZONS
If I have ever need of rectitude,
In my impasse, God, let me redescry
As three sea leagues and a cloud descry today
The level line that parts the sea and sky.
The thing that is and is not is the thing
For whieh the thingless mind of man must cry,
And if this nothing nothing is to you
The more fool I.
So plod you on upon your clodded way,
Breathe deep, sleep sound, and leave to me and
mine
Uncaring legatees and legators,
The curve of space in a non-existent line.
N.S.W.
JAMES HUNTER.


Public Notices
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from persons, etc.,
insuring with any insurance
company not registered in New
South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associa-
tions being owners, trustees, or agents
for any goods or property within the
Svdney Fire District, and every other Fire
District in the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949, has been applied, in respect
of which premiums are paid to an in-
surance company not registered in the
State; are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire
Commissioners of New South Wales,
returns showing the amount of such
premiums paid by them in respect of the
said property to such insurance com-
panies during the year 1952.
The time appointed for the receipt of
• the returns is on or before the 31st
January, 1953, subject to a penalty not
exceeding £1 per day for every day of
default.
Note : Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly
chargeable in respect of the fire risk
during the time such property was in
any Fire District under the said Act.
By order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales,
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from insurance com-
panies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales,
returns showing the total amount of the
premiums received by or due to such com-
panies in respect of risks against fire
during the year ending 31st December,
1952; within the Sydney Fire District and
every other Fire District in the State of
New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1949, applies; less any
part of such premiums actually paid by
way of reinsurance to any other insurance
companies contributing under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the re-
turns is on or before the 81st January,
1953, subject to a penalty not exceeding
Five pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the under-
signed.
By order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales,
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Born IS2O —
going tfrong.
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WAWKER
real good Scotch
It was hoped to bring you more Johnnie Walker from
Scotland this year. But even the best-laid plans can go
astray. More precious than ever now is the little Johnnie
Walker that import restrictions allow for your enjoyment.
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JW. 146.12
SEE MORE CLEARLY WITH
“SIRIUS”
“SIRIUS” Binoculars are
made especially for E.
ESDAILE & SONS by a lead-
ing continental maker, em-
bodying optical, scientific and
technical data arrived at after
65 years of experience. De-
sign and finish of “SIRIUS”
is faultless . . . light in
weight, centre screw focussing,
plus a strong, sturdy leather
case.
30 COATED .. £26/8/9
gales Tax and Case included
42 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY. BW 9449, 8631.
Other makes:
Zeiss, Ross, Beck
Kassell, Lemaire
Roussell.
Oft
Oftft
4c c
fo
*at
w,
e <?
aio
iff.,'
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Letters of a Self-
made Merchant to His Son. —5410.
To buy copy of Hardy Wilson’s
Colonial Architecture in N.S.W. and
Tasmania. —5411.
To purchase (or have the loan of
for three months from Feb. 1, 1953)
one .303 to .32 adaptor.—5412.
To buy copy of Australian Nursery
Rhymes, published by The Bulletin
in 1917—5413.
Information Sought
Some information on John Forrest ?
Born in August, 1847, he entered
the colony’s survey department at 18.
In 1869 he was put in charge of an
expedition to search for traces of
Leichhardt, and in the next five years
led two other important exploratory
expeditions, one from Perth to
Adelaide along the Bight, the other
from Champion Bay (W.A.) to the
overland telegraph-line (a distance of
2700 miles). From 1876 he held
various high offices in the survey
department, from 1883 to 1890 being
Surveyor-General, which carried with
it a seat in the Executive and Legis-
lative Councils. When responsible
government was introduced (in secur-
ing which he took a prominent part)
he became first Premier and Colonial
Treasurer, a position he held for 11
years. In 1901 he was elected to the
Federal Parliament for Swan, and
retained the seat till his death. He
held portfolios in various Federal
Ministries. From March to June,
1907, he was acting Prime Minister.
In Feb., 1918, he was created first
Baron Forrest of Bunbury. He died
at sea, Sept. 3, 1918. Forrest’s
great work was his development of
W.A. during his long Premiership;
during his Federal period he remained
a striking figure, but was scarcely an
active deviser of policies or a pro-
gressive administrator.
* * * *
Amount of capital invested in Aus-
tralia since 1945? What amount was
overseas capital ?
Total capital investment since the
end of the war has been £5122 mil-
lion, made up of £3894 million of
private and £1228 million of public
investment. There has been overseas
private investment of £7Ol million
since 1945. As some figures of
interest, of the total private invest-
ment (£3894 million), £1043 has gone
into building, £9lB million into capital
equipment (machines, farm imple-
ments, etc.), £725 million into cars
and trucks.
* * * ♦
Brief account of the bushranger
Morgan, mentioned in a recent
Bulletin article?
The scene of his activities was the
southern districts of N.S.W. Born
in 1830 at Campbelltown (N.S.W.),
he was never a convict, as were many
of his bushranging contemporaries;
but in brutality he rivalled the worst
of the convict bushrangers. He had
no hesitation shooting unarmed men
and torturing women. His first rob-
bery was near Wagga in 1862 (soon
after the notorious Eugowra mail-
robbery, which perhaps influenced
him), and he thereafter raided and
robbed and murdered. In 1865 he
crossed the Murray and operated
around Wangaratta and Benalla. On
April 8, 1865, he bailed-up the house-
hold at Peechelba station for the
night, but next morning was shot
dead by a stationhand.
» ♦ * ♦
Is the N.K.V.D. the Russian secret-
polSse ? If so, what is the O.G.P.U. ?
The N-K.V.D. is the secret-police.
Under Lenin and Stalin it was first
called the Cheka, then the 0.G.P.U.,
and it is now known as the N.K.V.D.
Though its name has changed, its
task is the same; to find out and
sweep away all opposition to Stalin’s
dictatorship. Its ear is everywhere;
every Russian lives in fear of its
knock on the door at night. It
controls the concentration-camps,
whose victims have been estimated at
15 million. Even the Red Army is
subjected to control by the N.K.V.D.
It can be truly said to have developed
spying to a fine art, slaughtered men,
women and children by the million
and made fear-the dominant motive
in Russian life.
* * * *
Some particulars on the famous
Lancaster Regiment?
Raised in 1680 for the defence of
Tangier, it fought under William 111
in Ireland and Flanders; but its first
battle-honor is Namur, 1695. Its
badge, “The Lion of England,” was
granted at that time. Under Queen
Anne it became the Queen’s Marines,
and served under Admiral Rooke at
the capture of Gibraltar, 1704.
George I conferred the title of the
King’s Own Royal Regiment in 1715.
It served in the American War of
Independence. It also served in the
Peninsula, Crimea, Abyssinia and
S. Africa. During World War I it
raised 16 battalions, which served in
France, Flanders, Macedonia, Galli-
poli, Egypt and Mesopotamia. In
World War II the regiment was part
of the Chindit force in Burma; other
battalions were in the Eighth Army,
and fought in Italy.
He * * *
Some particulars about the Koh-i-
--noor diamond ?
Probably the most famous diamond
in the world. It is considered to be
a portion of the Great Mogul
diamond which was in the possession
of the Mogul Emperor Aurungzebe
in 1665. In 1739 it was seized by
Nadir Shah, the Turcoman ruler of
Persia, when he invaded and plun-
dered India, and later came into the
possession of the East India Com-
pany, which presented it in 1850 to
Queen Victoria, It then weighed 186
carats, but by recutting has been
reduced to 106 carats. It is now in
the crown of the Queen of England.
* * * *
(1) How to treat maidenhair-ferns
which have died off? (2) Best fer-
tiliser for ferns in baskets ?
(1) Burn off foliage, top-dress with
light loam and soak the baskets in a
tub or tin of water every few days.
(2) It is not advisable to use chemical
fertilisers on ferns; weak liquid cow-
manure is all that is necessary. Many
gardeners find it helps if a little bush-
charcoal is added.
♦ * * ♦
Where was the Mermaid Tavern in
London, and why did it become
famous ?
It was in Cheapside, with side-
entrances in Friday-street and Bread-
street. It was destroyed by the Great
Fire of London. The Mermaid Club,
founded by Sir Walter Raleigh, held
its meetings there. Some of the
members were Shakspeare, Ben Jon-
son, Beaumont and Fletcher, the
collaborators, and Donne. In their
day the tavern was noted for its
canary wines.
* * * *
What was the Land League in Irish
history ?
An organisation formed in 1879 by
some Irish politicians to promote
land-tenure reform. The rules bound
tenants to refuse dealings with any
tenant who had taken land from which
its former occupier had been evicted.
One of the first victims was Captain
Boycott, whose name has since
become part of the language. Accord-
ing to modern historians of Irish
affairs, the Land League warned the
peasantry against deeds of violence,
but the Government, .believing that it
was inciting outrage and riot, prose-
cuted some of its leaders, including
Parnell. The prosecutions, however,
were not proceeded with. The league
was a great factor in the history of
Irish agrarian reform, and was respon-
sible for obtaining certain concessions
in Gladstone’s Land Bill, 1881. It
was dissolved shortly afterwards.
* * * *
Lengths, grades and directions of
grades of, and opening-dates of, “old”
and “new’'' Otford railway-tunnels
( south coast of N.S.W.) ?
The new tunnel, known as Bald
Hill tunnel, is 1264 ft. long; its grade,
falling from Sydney, is one in 80. It
was opened Oct. 10, 1920. The older
tunnel is 5083 ft. long; its grade, fall-
ing from Sydney, is one in 40. It
was opened March 10, 1888.
* * * *
Who or what was Pithecanthropus ?
In 1891 a skull and thigh-bone
were discovered in Java belonging to
a creature which some scientists
regard as the first human being of
whom we have knowledge. However,
he can’t be considered a true man;
he was more an intermediate stage
before man appeared. He lived prob-
ably a million years ago. The skull
is about half the size of that of
modern man, and is very low and
flat, with a receding forehead. The
thigh-bone indicates a creature well-
adapted to standing and running like
a man. Pithecanthropus (ape-man)
must have been slow and clumsy, but,
as far as is known, could speak,
though in a primitive fashion.
* * * *
How many carats in pure gold?
A carat is the unit of weight for
precious stones, i.e., diamonds and
pearls. It is, naturally, a fixed weight.
A carat is also a twentyfourth part.
In this connection it is used in ex-
pressing the proportionate fineness
of a gold alloy. E.g., a gold alloy
containing 14 twentyfourths by weight
of gold (and therefore the remaining
10 parts alloy) is 14 carats fine. The
carat is not one-twentyfourth of an
ounce, one-third of an ounce or
one-twentyfourth of a pound troy, as
it is often taken to be. Pure gold
cannot be described in terms of carats.
* * * ♦
Some information on a fish known
as the mado?
Scientific name Atypichthys strigatus,
it is a small fish, common around
wharf-piles in inlets along the coast-
line of southern Australia. It affords
sport to juvenile fishermen, but is too
small to be of value as a table fish,
as it rarely attains a length of lOin.
and is usually much smaller. It is
yellowish, with several brown longi-
tudinal brands. An allied species,
A. latus, is common around Lord
Howe Island, and is known there as
“leatherjacket,” but is not related to
the true leatherjacket plentiful in Aus-
tralian waters.
* * * *
What is the meaning of post-
impressionism in art?
The term was originated by art-
critic Roger Fry about 1910 to
describe the artistic reactions from
impressionism, the chief exponents of
which were Manet, Monet, Sisley,
Pissarro and Degas. Post-impres-
sionism covered the work of such
men as Cezanne, Van Gogh, Gauguin,
Matisse, Picasso and the cubists. The
term merely signifies that these men
came after the impressionists.
Brief Answers
K.J.K.: In a full-strength infantry
company in the Australian Army, a
section is commanded by a corporal
(or sergeant), a platoon by a
lieutenant, a company by a captain.
W.J.M.: The Port Phillip dis-
trict was constituted the colony of
Victoria in 1851 P. 8.: Iron-smelt-
ing began in N.S.W. near Berrima in
1847 J.F.G.: You can call on the
owner or “person legally possessed
of and holding” the adjoining land
to assist in equal proportions towards
the cost of the dividing-fence
C.W.: Answers to your questions
have been posted... .J.H.P.: Let us
have name of ship on which he came,
or, if not known, the approximate
date of his arrival here, and we will
give you any particulars available.
K.L.A.: A broker executes
orders from buyers or sellers for the
transfer of stocks or other property
on commission Inquirer: Status
of a patron of a club" depends to
some extent on the club concerned.
Asa rule a patron takes no active
part in the club’s administration, and
it is not usually necessary to send
him notice of meetings, though it is
courtesy to inform nim of certain
of the club’s activities. The position
is usually regarded as an honor, and
the patron is looked to for financial
support. He is not as a rule eligible
to vole J.S.: (1) Geraldo, the
band-leader, is an Englishman, Gerald
Bright. (2) Roberto Inglez is a Scots-
man, Robert Inglis S.A.A.: For-
mula did not appear on the Service
Page. Cannot trace any to meet
your requirements J.A.F.: Can-
not indicate preferences in such
matters... .J.S.Mc.: Write N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture, Farrer-
place, Sydney L.N.: The Presi-
dent of the U.S.A. is usually, and
properly, spoken to as “Mr. Presi-
dent”; in writing to him “My dear
Mr. President” is good usage, and
so is “Dear Mr. President”
J.A.C.: If benzine fails, try eucalyp-
tus or a dilute solution of ammonia.
J.R.: Both books should be
avaiiable at the Public Library, Perth
. ...N.K.: It has no commercial
value.. . .8.R.1.: Telegony is the
alleged influence of a previous sire
on the progeny of a subsequent one
by the same mother... .R.T.: It
pumpkins and melons are sown in
soil in which strychnine-poisoned
rabbits are buried the plants will not
carry the poison into the fruit
8.P.R.: The bole of a tree is made
up of two fairly distinct zones, an
outer zone (sapwood) and an inner
zone (heartwood), The sapwood is
the younger growth, and in most
trees is lighter in color than the heart-
wood; it stores foods and conducts
moisture from roots to leaves. As
the tree increases in girth the inner
layers of sapwood become inert and
inactive, being then the heartwood,
whose main function is to provide
mechanical rigidity to the tree
J.M.: Eve Langley was bom in
N.S.W., but left to make her home
in New Zealand about 20 years ago.
Her married name is Mrs. Hilary
Clarke. The Pea Pickers, which she
wrote in Auckland, is her only pub-
lished book. Much of it is semi-
autobiographical. She has contributed
many poems to The Bulletin and
various Australian and N.Z. antholo-
gies. Anew novel, White Topees, is
now in the hands of her publishers.
M.C.E.: Under the Local Gov-
eminent Act it is a special disquali-
fication for office if a person has a
“direct or indirect pecuniary interest
in any agreement or trading with the
council” H.P.: See a solicitor and
give him the facts. If he is of opinion
that the mare has been illegally regis-
tered, instruct him to take steps to
protect your interest K. 8.: Unable
to find any record of English
comedian Bertie Wright ever appear-
ing in the chorus at the Tivoli. He
came to Australia about 1910 to play
Timothy Gibbs in the Australian
premiere of “Our Miss Gibbs,” then
played Tweedlepunch in a revival of
“Floradora” and after that created
the part of Jeremiah in “The Quaker
Girl.” Later he was for many years
secretary of Actors’ Equity C.C.:
Terms given are incomplete; send
further details J.L.: Araluen is
an abo. word meaning “home of the
water-lily.”
ANSWER TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS w m be retu rned unless
sta mps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
wdl be considered for publication
on tbe understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
l T • If your characters were fish-
ing f or w hfling with prawns at Forster
they deserved all the terrible things
you did to them—if they or you had
been tbere) worms would have been
used an d whiting would have been
caug ht F.H.W.: A murderee who
is half-dead anyway seems too much
of a s i t ting-shot K.A.: It’s just
one a f t ernoon-tea party leading to
another afternoon-tea party on which
the sun never sets P.F.: She didn’t
seem t h e sort that seventeen men
would run after L.K.: It’s a good
story, but you don’t improve it by
giving the bright ending in the middle.
1.D.V.: The reason why badly-
written stories about colonial Aus-
tralia se n so well is that the writers
have boned-up on the period; now,
yo ur trouble is exactly the opposite.
c.; If they met in midwinter
an d “ SW eet baby-cries filled the house
w ith the first breath of spring,"
you’ve got something more interest-
jng to sell than stories G.S.F.:
Well, there’s no reason why you
shouldn’t “write stories like the ‘New
Yorker’ short stories”; and then —
think of it!—you’ll have a story like
a “New Yorker” short story
U.G.D.: This kiss-me-Charlie stuff
leaves us cold T.D.: Not bad, but
not quite 1.R.: No reason why
an y third person should pry into
“Honeymoon for Two” H.S.: It’s
one of those faultless things that
seems to have been written by an
automatic typewriter—maybe a photo-
electric eye would get a kick out of
it M.M.: Not today, John
J.O’C.: The nice old mother-in-law
was a novelty, anyway L. 8.:
Much too charming G.V.: Much
too tough... .F.S.E.: Sorry, but you
can’t just kill people off like that —
sooner or later one of them would
be bound to complain.


LYSAGHTS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
adMHi
W&mmm
.
'Li —
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock.
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Value of Good Pasture
“Ngaduri”: After the hay was
cut it was stocked for some
days, and winds shook a lot of
grain out of it. Then it was
thrown on to the truck, thrown
off again into the stack, off the
stack into a heap at chaffing,
and then handled again into the
cutter. At every operation grain
was lost, and in addition wastage
is always high where hay is
stacked because of mice, birds
and weather. So that, even
though we got a crop of five
tons, we were getting only about
as much grain as was reaped in
three tons.
With good meadow-hay there
was practically no wastage, as
most of the feeding-value was
in the stem and leaf of the plant,
and since these were mowed and
bound into bales very quickly
the wastage was low. The seeds
had not formed when the stuff
was baled, so the concentrate
loss was negligible. This is near
Whyalla (S.A.).
Therefore, the summer after
a very wet winter I found my-
self with an unusually large
stock of meadow-hay and no
wheaten or oaten stuff. Oats
were bought and crushed for
the horses and cows and added
to as much meadow-hay as they
cared to eat. Eat it they did, and
throve.
Costs, since it saved a great
deal of extra labor, were greatly
reduced, and, even after the hay
had been cut from the lucerne-
perennial - rye - phalaris - sub. -
clover, I still had my summer
pasture for the sheep. In addi-
tion, I now sow my crop once
every 10 years, and the same
treatment which goes for the
pasture now goes for the crop as
well. Only the stocking varies
in that the pasture which will
be cut for hay next season is
made the ungrazed pasture in
the previous spring and is then
used for lambing-down in May,
because it affords best cover for
the lambs. Immediately after
lambing it is fed off fairly close
by the cows, and then the dry
sheep—mostly weaners and two-
tooths which need this feed at
a bad time of the year.
It is then top-dressed fairly
heavily, during which process
the ground is scratched and then
is left entirely alone until the
first cut, which is a phalaris-
dominant mixture, and is taken
in late September.
If that doesn’t give enough
hay a second, lucerne-dominant,
cut can be taken in late October
or early November, but I have
usually found that it pays to use
this one to top off the off-shears
sheep for sale, as they greatly
relish the stuff which has not
been grazed.
The only time a crop is now
sown on the place is in the
stands of pure lucerne, and oats
are drilled in here every autumn
by a share-farmer —since we no
longer have use for harvesting
equipment. We provide the
seed and half the super., have
no work to worry us and, since
we get half the grain and a bene-
fit to our lucerne-stands, it is
cheap buying. But gradually
permanent perennial grasses are
being introduced into these
lucerne-stands, and very soon
the whole property will be under
a permanent pasture or, depend-
ing on your view, under per-
manent crop.
Pulpy-kidney in Sheep
“Hux”: -Symptoms of pulpy-
kidney show up suddenly ; sick-
ness may last from three to four
hours only. The sheep appears
dull, fearless of dogs or people,
and eats, or bites at, unnatural
objects. Some young lambs take
fits and die frothing at the
mouth ; others are affected by a
bad-smelling scour before death.
Older sheep may linger for two
days, but this is rare.
A marked feature is rapid de-
composition of the carcass.
After death the abdomen swells
up rapidly, the skin under the
forelegs goes purple and the
wool is easily plucked out. Post-
mortem shows the intestines bal-
looned out with gas and the kid-
neys pulpy, dark red or grey in
color; in older sheep the kid-
neys are generally enlarged.
This rapid decomposition is
sometimes confused with black-
disease, black-leg or even an-
thrax. When any doubt exists
as to the disease see the stock-
inspector.
Losses are quickly reduced
when an affected mob is placed
in a grass paddock where the
feed contains crude fibre; or
where it is changed from a grow-
ing cereal crop on to grass
country. In either case harder
feed stimulates bowel-action
and prevents microbe increase.
Other methods are (1) to place
the sheep in a hard-grass pad-
dock each night and return them
to the succulent feed during the
day, and (2) to feed them hay
while the growth is lush. Either
feed-mixture keeps the bowel
stimulated.
Best protection is vaccination.
If ewes are vaccinated when
near to lambing the lamb gets
protection with the first milk
that lasts it three to four weeks.
Four to six weeks is the best age
to vaccinate lambs. Grown
sheep can be done at any time,
but vaccinating close to the
dangerous season gives the best
results.
Fish-oil for Poultry
“Agric”: Poultry-owners in
Queensland who can’t grow
green-feed are overcoming the
lack with fish-oils. A fish-oil
emulsion recommended by
Queensland Agriculture Depart-
ment is marketed under the
trade-name of vetameel, and is
sold under two different labels
—blue and green.
Blue vetameel contains vita-
min A only, and the green has
vitamins A and D 3, the latter
being a substitute for sunshine
in prolonged wet weather.
Chickens should be given
vitamins A and D 3 from the
day-old stage to eight weeks.
Fish-oil emulsions have five
times the vitamin-A potency of
cod-liver oils, and one-fifth of
a pint is sufficient for every
1001 b. of mash. The best mixing-
medium is bran; the oil-emul-
sion is mixed evenly throughout
a few pounds of bran, and the
oiled bran is then mixed
throughout the bag of mash. No
more mash is treated than the
birds will consume in a fort-
night at the most, preferably in
a week, as exposure to air
causes oxidation of both cod-
liver oil and fish-oil emulsions.
Sweet Potatoes for Pigs
“Hortus”: What makes sweet-
potatoes ideal for pig-farmers
is their drought-resistance. A
sandy loam, well supplied with
organic matter, is the best. Even
in poor sandy soil six tons an
acre are obtained.
Pig-owners with such soil
would do well to consider sweet-
potatoes in the place of maize
for fattening. Plant, say, a crop
of cowpeas, feed off with stock
and then turn the residue under.
The liquid and solid manure
dropped by the stock is an added
asset. Some like a rotation of
sorghum or maize, cowpeas and
sweet-potatoes.
Careful soil-preparation is
necessary. Two ploughings are
done, the first in May or June
about Sin. deep. Harrow and
cross-harrow. Let this remain
during winter. Don’t let the sur-
face become caked or too weedy.
The second ploughing, on soils
at all light, in spring, must be
shallow —only about 4in. You
don’t want to disturb the firm,
moist, lower soil. You also
want chunky tubers, not very
long and thin. Use super., 2cwt,
and sulph.-potash, lewt., per
acre.
Plant out when all danger of
frost is over, usually about end
of September or early in Octo-
ber. In coastal districts you can
go on planting into January,
Plants are set in rows 3ft. apart
with 2ft. between the plants.
Firm the soil thoroughly around
the roots. Keep cultivating as
long as possible.
Don’t be too quick to lift the
tubers. Remember it’s during
the last two months that the
yield per acre is very much in-
creased. To find out if the
tuber is mature cut one. If the
cut surface dries white and does
not develop a dark tinge round
the edge the tuber is ripe enough
for use.
Liquid Manure
“Billjim”: Greatest benefit
will be obtained from dressings
of liquid manure in gardens
"....and her simple grey shantung suit was topped
with a charming hat of cerise velour”
where organic manure is scarce.
A 40-gallon drum or old barrel
is best to contain the liquid.
Fill a bag with fresh manure,
cow, sheep, pig or poultry, and
submerge for a week in water.
Use this solution at the rate
of one part to three parts water.
If the container is then refilled
with fresh water the solution,
diluted with equal parts of water,
may be used at the end of a
week. Thereafter allow each re-
filling to stand for a week before
using. Apply weekly at the rate
of four gallons to about 18ft. of
row.
Watch the following points
when applying: Solution should
be weak when applied to seed-
lings and new-planted or slow-
growing subjects. Use at full
strength on strong growers such
as cabbage, rhubarb, silver-beet,
kale, marrow and pumpkin
during rapid development or
when growth is nearly complete.
Apply according to light and
temperature.
Weaker solutions and less-
frequent applications are advis-
able in late autumn and late
spring. Only when growing
conditions are favorable should
it be applied in the winter.
Water dry soil before applying
generously. Penetration can
usually be facilitated by break-
ing the surface of the soil by
hoeing or pricking over with a
fork.
Thrush
“Plane Creek”: A rather com-
mon ailment of horse’s feet is
thrush. Like greasy-heel, it is
usually seen in horses that spend
most of their time standing in
dirty yards and sloppy pad-
docks.
The horse goes lame, a thin,
evil-smelling liquid escapes
from the frog of the foot, the
frog, instead of being tough and
rubbery, is soft and spongy.
First thing to do is move the
horse to new quarters. It need
not be confined, but may be
allowed to forage over dry
grazing - areas. Keep other
horses away, so that the sufferer
won’t be disturbed. If its heels
are long trim them short. Long
heels, by denying the frog exer-
cise, may cause thrush.
Cleanse the diseased foot with
a warm antiseptic solution. Then,
with a sterilised knife, pare away
decaying and unhealthy horn.
When the sound, healthy horn
is exposed, clamp a formalin-
soaked woollen pad over the
sole, using a boot of tough bag-
ging, or a leather sole nailed on,
to hold it in place. A l-in-9
formalin and distilled-water
solution is plenty strong enough.
Within a few days the foot
will have hardened up nicely
and the formalin pad should be
removed. If the case is not too
bad, merely painting the frog
with the formalin solution
should clear it up. Another
thrush cure is sub-chloride of
mercury, introduced into the
frog’s cleft.
The Young Calf
“Myrrhee”: Provided it re-
ceives a gruel supplement, a calf
can be reared on as little as
25gal, of milk.
Feed the milk and gruels in
the following proportions: First
and second weeks, whole-milk
121 b. per day; third week, 91b.
of whole-milk and of
gruel or separated milk; fourth
week, 61b. of whole-milk and
111 b. of gruel; fifth week, 31b.
and 16i1b.; sixth to 24th weeks,
no whole-milk, 221 b. of gruel or
separated milk. Feed half in the
morning and half in the even-
ing.
Calves receiving no fresh milk,
either whole or skim, should be
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
January should have comparatively fine weather for
the first part and a good deal of rain in the second half.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jacksoih
OSUIUVA!?
WAOe
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 YOIT
I
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
HARDMAN & HALL,
44 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
Weight
?61bs.
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut in
2oz. packets at 28 /6d. per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31/6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order.
No order accepted under 11b.
weight.
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
ẅ
. .BUX HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAR RERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BARRBRH
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3h), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydnev
VISITING MELBOURNE?
Hire and Drive a Modern Car
from
SHEPPARD’S GARAGE,
36 Toorak Road, South Yarra.
Phone:
Windsor 1870, After Hours, BJ 1957.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. UAONEY, Chairman; F. TV. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. C. O. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:~~*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in;—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
TILLEY Regd. Supreme 100%
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
BRITISH
MADE
For quality —for economy —for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on 1J pints of Kero. 300 Candle Power.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores MODEL X 246
Manufacturer’s Representatives: (“the guardsman”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.I.
grazed on green pasture or given
some lucerne-hay.
Any of the following will
make a satisfactory gruel: 1,
pollard; 2, equal parts of pol-
lard and linseed-meal; 3, equal
parts of pollard and skim-milk
powder; 4, three parts of pol-
lard, three parts of dried whey
and two parts of meatmeal. To
gruels 1 and 2 add a teaspoon of
lime.
Mitchell-grass
“Agric”: Detailing in his
annual report for 1951-52
analyses of the composition of
fodders being stored as drought
insurance or used during the
drought. Dr. Montgomery
White, Queensland Department
of Agriculture, said it was
doubtful if any stored Mitchell-
grass hay examined to date
would meet the needs of a lamb-
ing ewe, even if fed freely.
This, however, was not to say
it could not do so with a little
supplementation, and there was
evidence that this could be done.
Mitchell-grasses, said White,
reached their maximum nutrient
status quickly, and equally
rapidly became fibrous and less
nutritious. Yield-per-acre in
terms of hay was low by all
agricultural standards, and so
there was a strong temptation to
leave the cutting until the maxi-
mum tonnage was expected.
Herein lay the fallacy revealed
by the analyses.
It was a fairly safe assump-
tion, he said, that most fodders
should contain at least 5 per
cent, protein on "a dry-matter
basis to meet the bodily re-
quirements of herbivorous ani-
mals. Mitchell-grass within a
few weeks of commencing new
growth had reached its maxi-
mum protein of about 12 per
cent, and might be expected to
yield up to 3cwt. of hay per
acre ; in another month the ton-
nage might reach its harvestable
maximum of about twice that
figure, but its protein content
by then was less than half the
maximum and its digestibility
greatly lowered.
Another interesting point was
that the feeding-value of
Mitchell-grass hay from the
centre of well-prepared stacks of
long standing was not greatly
different from that of recently-
cut hay. This might point, said
White, to the way in which
roughage should be stored in the
arid areas.
Sweet Com
“Billjim”: In domestic and
commercial gardens sweet-corn
forms an ideal shelter-border for
tender vegetables and has some
decorative effect. A heat- and
moisture-loving plant, the corn
is best placed in beds with the
sunniest position in the garden.
A good tilth is desirable.
Humus content should be im-
proved by adding organic matter
such as animal manure, compost
or green crops. To avoid arti-
ficial fertiliser damaging the
seed, work it lightly into the soil
several days before the seeding.
Apply 3cwt. of super, per acre;
on poorer soils as much as
lOcwt. of a fertiliser mixture.
From 81b. to 101 b. of seed
per acre is required. Drill l£in.
to 2in. deep in rows 28in. to
35in. apart, with 9in. to 12in.
between seed. Wider spacing
will permit of larger cobs.
Removal of sucker shoots,
although not practicable on large
areas, will produce bigger and
better cobs. Plump cobs and
dried silk indicate that corn is
ready to piek. Best quality is
when they are in the “milk”
stage. A simple test is to insert
the thumbnail in the kernel; if
exudate is milky the corn is in
the milk stage.
Sheep-branding
“C.A.A.”; A sheep-brand
should not be more than about
4in, in length. If placed close
to the tail just sufficiently high
to prevent removal of the lower
portion of the brand during
crutching it will serve the pur-
pose, Choice of the withers, top
of the shoulder or centre of the
back affects the fleece-value.
If branding-irons are kept
clean they will make neater
marks. To clean easily put them
in a range or open fire for about
five minutes.
Smearing of brands is often
caused by having too much
branding fluid in the pot. Use a
strong saucepan in the bottom
of which is a shorn sheepskin
the size of the inside of the pot.
Add only sufficient fluid to
dampen the wool.
Wheat for Cows
“Myrr”: Before feeding
wheat to cattle grind it to a fine,
gritty texture and thoroughly
mix with some long chaff (lib.
of chaff to 41b. of wheat) to
keep the mixture friable, other-
wise the ground-wheat is apt to
run together and form a doughy
mass which cannot be regurgi-
tated, causing. food sickness.
A 3gal. cow can be fed up to
241 b. of the following mixture
daily: 61b. of chaff, 91b. of
ground-wheat and up to 91b. of
bran, pollard, linseed-meal or
other good concentrate. Two
pounds of grass-hay may be used
to replace lib. of ground-wheat.
Hints for the Farm
“Billjim”; There are two
ways of determining whether a
hen or pullet is out of lay. In
lay the comb is red and fully
developed, the face is red, the
vent large and moist. Out of lay
the comb is shrivelled and pale,
the face lacks bloom and red
color, the vent is small and dry.
“C.A.A.”: Proof lawns
against grass-grub attack by
dressing with lead-arsenate. Use
at f oz. to the square yard mixed
with twice the volume of sand
evenly spread and water-in
thoroughly. Roll the lawn to
press damaged plants back into
contact with the soil and help
them to reroot. Proofing should
be done in early summer. Where
a new lawn is being laid down
incorporating l|oz. of lead
arsenate with the top inch of
soil before sowing will guard
against attack for four or five
years.
“C.A.”: Recommended depths
for sowing vegetable-seeds are:
Celery, lettuce, radish, tomato,
up to iin. ; asparagus, beetroot,
brassicas, carrot, leeks, onion,
parsnips, up to iin.; cucumber,
marrow, melon, pumpkin, silver-
beet, spinach, squash, up to lin.;
beans, peas, sweet-corn, up to
2in.
“Myrr”: For orchard wind-
breaks in the cooler Victorian
districts plant Finns insignis or
Lambertiana cypress. For inter-
mediate breaks to subdivide
large areas pittosporum serves
very well. In northern citrus dis-
tricts select a shelter tree which
will not become a host for red-
scale. Boobialla is a good one.
It’s hardy and provides a dense
shelter up to a height of 30ft.
A satisfactory alternative, the
sugar-gum, makes excellent
shelter when lopped to force out
growth near the ground.
“Garden”: Autumn plantings
are recommended for shrub and
tree, and it is sense to write to
nurserymen for catalogues of
plants suitable to the area where
they are to be grown. There are
many beautiful native trees and
shrubs which are most suited to
our conditions and are very
easily grown. If an early start
is made the trees and shrubs
required can be ordered some
titne before they are wanted for
planting.
“C. J.”: Most tree-planters
skip soaking eucalypt-seed in hot
water since they find it affects
germination. Safest rule is to
soak only the hard-shelled
varieties, such as wattles, tree-
lucerne, honey-locust, carobs,
etc. Period Of soaking should
be 12 hours only ; longer lowers
germination. ' Boiling seed to
speed sprouting is a fallacy. Old
Mother Nature’s best gum-trees
come from well-matured seed
dropped on the moist soil be-
neath the parent tree.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Your Own Land?
I’m glad that I don’t own even a
square yard of N. S. Wales. A few
years ago I would not have minded
owning even a few thousand acres, but
not now.
If they were alive today, the men who
pioneered the country would probably
agree with me* They overcame difficulties
and hardships, but they never had to face
the position which confronts landholders
today. The pioneers and their descend-
ants made sacrifices beyond the under-
standing of most people; through flood,
fire and drought they made the country
what it was. And through it all they
owned their own * properties. Heaven
would have had to help any official who
tried to tell them otherwise.
Today the general public, many of
whom are descendants of pioneers, sit
idle while a group of Government
officials destroys the lifework of the
pioneers.
The man who owns land in N. S. Wales
never knows from one day to another
when he will lose it —by Government
action. Many landholders are the third
generation on the land they occupy.
Their grandfathers pioneered it, their
fathers improved it, and they themselves,
who should have some reason to feel
secure, are now in daily dread of being
ordered off. And they have no appeal.
The word “Go” is final.
Owners of land in cities or towns are
no safer. In fact, they have even more
chance of being “raided.” If the Hous-
ing Commission doesn’t want their pro-
perty, the Cumberland County Council
will have some control of it, if it is in the
metropolitan area. Apart from those,
many Government departments, public
bodies and even local councils are now
free to resume property at any time. No
one is secure.
With the city-suburban owners also,
the word “Go” is final. They have
no more appeal than country owners.
One has only to check the recent “amend-
ments” which have been made to the
Local Government Act to verify that.
Of course, there is supposed to be
“compensation”! But can any compen-
sation pay for the unremitting labor and
hopes of three generations? Ask the
man whose heritage has been taken from
him.
And how do you “compensate” a man
and wife who, after working and saving
to own their own home, have it arbitrarily
taken from them?— Pyott Strom
(N.S.W.).
Darkly Tableland
If “cattle cannot be trucked a distance
of about 800 miles without great loss,”
how does “H.G.L.” (B, 3/12/’52) account
for the light losses incurred in bringing
5000 drought-starved Brunette weaners by
rail from Mt. Isa into N.S.W. —approxi-
mately 2000 miles?
Agreed that fats would waste consider-
ably, but train-loads of fats go regularly
from Cloncurry to Cannon Hill, over
1200 miles.
The main advantage of a line from
Dajarra (Q.) on to the Barkly Tableland
would be that store stock could be
trucked out of the N.T. up to two years
earlier than it is possible to drove them
off, thereby leaving room for a greater
number of breeders.
It would also bring the vast breeding-
potential of the Territory within easy
reach of the wasted fattening areas of the
Channel country which stretches south
from Dajarra. The bloom has usually
passed from the pastures of the flooded
country before Territory cattle can be
driven there.
Add to that the unquestionable benefit
a railway would have been in the present
drought. With its more regular rainfall
and shallow bore-water and the extensive
Mitchell- and Flinders-grass downs, the
Barkly compares favorably with most
parts of central and north-west Queens-
land. A railway should make it suitable
for closer-settlement. —R. G. K. (Q.).
''• I . *
“Closer Settlement**
“Dick Turpin’s” opinion f (B. 26/11 /*52)
that in the Riverina there is very little
land that will bear further subdivision
without affecting the area’s agricultural
economy isn’t supported by Sydney Upton
in his Australia’s Empty Spaces, published
in the late 1930’5.
Upton, an English civil-engineer with
‘ wide experience of agricultural conditions
in the British Commonwealth, travelled
extensively in Australia. He regarded the
Riverina as one of several Australian
regions suited to a, lot more closer-settle-
ment. He wrote:
In south-east Australia there is country
suitable for .closer-settlement equal in area
to five times the combined areas of southern
Spain and southern Portugal, the population
of these two areas being over 13 million.
That was written before much was
known of the effect of the minor or trace
elements in fertilising deficient soils. It
is in part of the area cited that the
A.M.P. Society’s great project, described
by Charles Shaw in “Green Grow the
Deserts” (B. 10/12/.’52), is being carried
out. 5
There may be a great deal more land
in this part of Australia which, by treat-
ment with the minor elements, could
carry a substantial farming population
without any lowering of living standards.
—Terry the Tory (N.S.W.).
Butter v. Margarine
Suppliers to the Camperdown (Vic.)
butter factory received a record payment
for November of £129,638. Cream-sup-
pliers were paid at the rate of 4s. 7d. a
pound and milk-suppliers 4s. lOd. a
pound, butter-fat.
Fom the same town comes the report
of a meeting of the Victorian Dairy
Farmers’ Association, which has decided
to urge its State executive to see that the
terms of the Margarine Act are strictly
enforced. The argument is that mar-
garine is a real menace to the dairy-
farmer because every pound of mar-
garine sold means that another pound of
butter has to be sold on an “unprofit-
able” export market at Is, a pound under
the cost of production.
Margarine sells for about half the price
of butter, and it is obviously no concern
of the V.D.F.A. what becomes of people
who cannot afford butter at sixpence a
smear. One of the great arguments
against price-control was that competition
would look after such matters. Where
is that competition? The tendency in all
directions seems to be for producers, both
primary and secondary, to do all they
can by political-pressure tactics to ensure
that their particular branch of activity
“Take this prescription with you, and remember —complete rest."
shall be kept a close preserve —and hang
the general public.
Butter is certainly very nice (so is
caviare), but by not means essential. In
the first A.I.F. we managed without it,
and the people of England put up with
a very small ration without any notice-
able increase in the mortality rate. With
mechanisation, dairying is not such a bad
job, and the years I spent in the Clarence
River district of the North Coast of
N.S.W. convinced me that all this talk
about dairyfarmers having to work 70
hours a week is so much eyewash.
One of the most disturbing aspects of
our so-called democratic way of life is
the. influence which these minority pres-
sure-groups are able to exert to defeat
the natural laws of supply and demand. —
Ceg (Vic.).
What’s wrong with margarine? The
brand we use is palatable —so much so
that I’d been eating it for a week before
I woke up to the fact. It’s up to health
standards in vitamin-content, fat-content
and keeping qualities—and it’s half the
cost of butter, which is 4s. a pound
here in North Queensland.
Let the cow-cockies assimilate this
brutal fact. Butter, as a mainstay of their
prosperity, is on the way out. Subsidised
industries have never paid, and that fact
can be proved by history going back to
the Hammurabi Code of about 2000 b.c.
Eventually butter must meet margarine
on the open market in open competition,
and I’ll lay a shade of odds on the syn-
thetic when that comes about.
Did the silkworm-farmers yell when
rayon was produced? Did the rayon
manufacturers scream when nylon stole
the show? Where are those monstrosities
of brass and ceramic which made the
simple act of switching on the electric-
light a hazard before bakelite and plastics
were produced? The new, if it be
superior in general specifications, always
sends the old to the wall, and, the standard
of margarine being as high as it is, it
must win on the price factor.
A humorous aspect of a Queensland
spokesman’s case when he suggested that
the Government cut the margarine quota
was that certain ingredients were pro-
duced by colored labor, which was assist-
ing sub-standard conditions in industry
abroad. Yet a former Minister for Agri-
culture in Queensland said that “it was
a sad fact, but nevertheless a true one,
that if the labor of women and children
and the pound-a-week-and-tucker men
were withdrawn from the cowyards of
Queensland the industry would collapse.”
It was said during the depression. I’ll
admit, but it was said by a Labor
Minister, and it was true in every par-
ticular. Conditions have changed on
dairyfarms, and mechanisation has re-
lieved much of the drudgery, but the fact
remains that butter cannot be produced
in marketable quantities unless assisted
by a crutch of protection, which not only
damages another industry but strikes hard
at the budget of the working man.
If the dairyfarmer has any doubts
about the possible increase of costs in his
business, let him look at the Queensland
“Worker” for December 8, 1952. The
A.W.U., on November 25, lodged an
application with the Queensland Indus-
trial Court for an award to cover the
dairy industry. Among other things, the
union claims a 40-hour week, time-and-
a-half overtime, £ll 6s. a week for shed-
hands and £ll 11s. a week for general
farm-hands. By the proposed award it
looks as though Strawberry will have to
be prepared to hold her milk on Christ-
mas Day, Boxing Day, Anzac Day and
the Queen’s Birthday—the shed-hands
won’t be there to milk her unless they’re
paid double-time.
Such an award sounds ridiculous, but
—and here’s the rub —it places dairy-
farm hands on an equal basis with the
city toiler. Doing a bit of thumbnail cost-
ing, I’ve worked it out that butter will
be 10s. a pound under such an award.
The, cow-cocky should give way grace-
fully to margarine and devote his land to
the fattening of cattle or to direct milk-
production—there’s room for it. But
don’t let him disillusion himself that
there’s no substitute for butter. — Video
(Q.).
“Teachers and Education”
The supreme governing body of the
Teachers’ Federation is its annual con-
ference, and at the 1952 conference held
recently no request was made for a
royal commission into education (B.
24/12/’52). On the contrary, a motion
requesting such a commission and moved
by a delegate from a country branch was
defeated, and the idea was sidetracked
by the adoption of an amendment refer-
ring the whole question of reform and
improvement to the 1953 executive and
council.
As a matter of fact, the motion for a
commission was not taken seriously, was
debated facetiously and was punctuated
with piquant references to such bodies.
The debate made it very clear that the
Left and the Right were in agreement
on One thing at least—that N. S. Wales
teachers did not want a commission on
education, and were thoroughly sceptical
as to the benefits to education from any
such body.—M. E. D. (N.S.W.).
Electoral Boundaries
“W M H.’s” assertion (B. 17/12/’52)
that pre-“Labor” Governments in Queens-
land and N. S. Wales sought 'to keep
themselves in office permanently by
reconstructing electorates in their favor
may be true of Queensland, though I
doubt it. It is definitely untrue of N. S.
Wales. Liberal-Country-party Govern-
ments in that State have not been guilty
of electoral boundary-rigging. “Labor”
Governments alone have tried that means
of attempting to thwart the will of the
majority. Nor have the N, S. Wales
electoral-rolls been stuffed in the interest
of any party. They are the same as are
used for Federal elections.
It is also doubtful if “Federal elec-
torates in N. S. Wales gave no party an
advantage.” When the Federal Electoral
Commission carried out its last redistri-
bution there was a great outcry on the
part of several “Labor” members. The
final plan then contained changes that
substantially modified the character of
various electorates.
For instance, the one I vote in, Lowe,
called Strathfield under the initial plan,
was, in that arrangement, a blue-ribbon
Liberal seat. Through its Croydon area
being transferred, in the amended plan,
to Evans, it became, while still pre-
dominately Liberal, much easier for the
“Labor” party to capture. The adjacent
constituency of Martin, in the original
plan a swinging seat with slightly Liberal
bias, became a “Labor” stronghold.—
Morris the Tinker (N.S.W.).


Pampered Youth
Many countries are now faced with
the serious, ever-growing problem of
groups of young hoodlums of both
sexes who steal cars for wild joy-
rides which often result in the deaths of
innocent people, and who loaf on street-
corners and obtain money by bashing and
robbing. The need is to tackle the under-
lying causes.
Human beings do not value things
which come easily. During the war some
businessmen spent their evenings in
making a very good dinghy, which they
sent to an isolated Army unit. Within a
week its bottom planking had been
smashed by mooring it where it could
bump on rocks at low tide. Another
unit received a fishing-net. They cut it
to ribbons the first time it was used
by dragging it over a patch of coral.
After several lessons of this kind, Army
policy was changed. Instead of sending
out the finished article, a unit received
timber, tools and instructions for build-
ing their own boat. Instead of nets, they
received the twine to make one. The
troops took very good care of the things
which had cost them weeks of labor to
make.
Anyone who has anything to do with
natives finds it is a dreadful mistake to
give them things. It soon turns them
into cadgers and loafers. It may lead to
a development of the crazy “cargo-cult”
idea, in which it is imagined that good
fairies somewhere in the world make all
the steel tools, peroxide for hair-bleach-
ing, colored cloth, razor-blades and other
things which the native desires. These,
are sent off in ships, but the white man
grabs them en route and makes their
rightful owners work hard to buy a few
of the items. It might sound funny to
some, but it isn’t in the least
amusing to administrators of native terri-
tories ; and something very similar to
this cargo-cult idea has gripped many
of our own young people today.
It is encouraged in all sort of ways.
Almost any form of social service aids it.
Many films show young people as
possessing cars of their own, apparently
living without working and leading a
life of nothing but parties and excitement.
Comic-strips also abet it. Newspapers
give great prominence to teen-ager activi-
ties. Young criininals make the head-
lines, How much space in the Press is
devoted to the type of youngster' who
builds a yacht or a glider of his own?
A well-intentioned yet mistaken idea can
be found in the Youth Hostels Associa-
tion. Its buildings are erected with the
aid of a Government subsidy. They are
furnished with stretchers, blankets and
cooking- and eating-utensils. Young
people can use them overnight by paying
a nominal charge. It encourages the
“somethiug-for-nothing” outlook.
Contrast it with the bushwalking dubs.
Nobody gives them anything. " They
camp out in lightweight tents which they
buy for themselves and carry on their i
own backs. It is regarded as a privilege
to be admitted to one of theif clubs;
membership can be retained only by those
who live up to a high code in the way
of behavior, as well as assisting in bush-
fire-prevention and the preservation of
flora and fauna.
Boy Scouts are on the right track with
their “bobs-for-jobs” idea to raise funds.
The principle must be extended to every-
thing done by young people. Our uni-
versities are woefully short of funds, but
do the students ever turn their brilliant
young minds towards raising money for
the seats of learning which are training
them for careers? They do not —but
recently koine students at the University
of Adelaide indulged in senseless pranks
which cost the institution £5O.
The unkindest things any parent can
do to a child is to “give it the things
I never had in my young days.” It is
far better to aid the youngster to earn
money with which to buy them, thus
teaching the gospel of working for what
you desire instead of expecting it to drop
into your lap. Even better, because of
the training in handicrafts received, is to
look around for the facilities which will
enable youngsters to build things.
Most important of all is to cease giving
publicity to the activities of young hood-
lums, The only newspaper space which
they deserve is in police-court reports,
with a few contemptuous comments. The
things worthy of prominence are the
doings of those youngsters—still, fortu-
nately, the majority—who write their
own plays and act in them, try their hands
at making amateur films, run their own
sports clubs and who do spare-time work
to raise the money needed
In their wild state, our aborigines did
not admit to the rights and privileges of
“ Cleaning-up's always the worst part of a party.”
manhood any youth who had not under-
gone stringent tests. We could take a
lesson from the abo. in that. —Ex-R.S.M.
(S.A.).
“Queensland's Tent-pole Tax”
The stretching of Queensland Transport
Act Regulations to mulct a fee from a
private motorist transporting personal
camping-gear in his car to and from the
seaside for the holidays was sprung on
the public overnight. Presented with a
fait accompli , usually forms are being
filled in and fees snatched ere the victim
so much as gets his breath.
Labor stalwarts who apparently had
little more warning of this catchpenny
device than the man ift the street quickly
sensed that someone had blundered.
For the well-to-do motorist would not be
called upon to pay the tax. He is,not the
sort to pile everything but the kitchen-
sink on his car and go a-motoring. He
stays at a “posh” pub. It would be the.
wage-earner, the man who fondly cares
for a car during the week to take his
family to the beach on the weekend, who
would get it in the neck. The obvious
course for a Labor Government was to
liquidate the outrageous additional impost
on the cost of the working man’s holiday.
Transport Minister Duggan rescinded
the irksome tent-pole tax immediately
upon his return to Brisbane—-an action
of keen political perception.—Chas. E.
Rattle (Q.).
American Independence
Gavin Casey (B. 10/12/’52) is right in
thinking that, even if the -Boston lea
Party hadn’t happened, “Something else
would have set the young nation [U.B.A.J
off on a course pretty like the one it
followed.”
Two likely factors were the negro-
slavery issue and the attitude of the
frontiersmen towards the Indians.
In the early 19th century the move-
ment in favor of the abolition of negro
slavery became an important political
force in Britain. By the early 1830 s it
had brought about emancipation in the
British colonies. It would not have left
the slave-owning American colonies
alone. On the other hand, any attempt to
impose emancipation in them would have
roused rebellion —as Lincoln’s proposal
resulted in the American civil war.
Even before the War of American Inde-
pendence the conduct of the frontiersmen
in connection with the Indians led to
serious friction between them, and the
various colonial Governments. Brave,
independent, but impatient of authority,
and regarding the Indians as vermin
whom they were justified in driving from
any land they coveted, the frontiersmen
objected to any interference by the
colonial authorities.
The Crown, through these Govern-
ments, had agreements with various
Indian tribes whereby the latter were con-
firmed in possession of defined areas of
land on condition that they refrained
from attacking the British colonies.
Naturally, depredations at the expense of
these friendly tribes caused intervention
by colonial Governors, and roused the
resentment of the frontiersmen.
The position was complicated by the
fact that many of the latter were Ulster
Presbyterians, men as steeped in
Calvinism, and in the belief that they were
God’s elect, as any backveld Afrikander.
In addition they were unfriendly to the
Crown —as late as the mid-19th century
not a few Ulster Presbyterians were
republican in sentiment. They also de-
tested Episcopalianism, and the ruling
elements in the colonies were pre-
dominantly of that creed.
As the frontier communities grew in
strength it would have needed very high
statesmanship to avert a clash between
them and the authorities.— Castlereagh
(N.S.W.).
Go Off the Land
Production is not so good in Australia
that the best land can be put out of com-
mission. Civil aviation recently claimed
a huge tract of fertile soil on the Morn-
ington Peninsula which feeds half of Mel-
bourne, dispossessing dairymen, nursery-
men and market-gardeners.
A radio-station more recently took the
Lucerne Farm, a lovely old place on the
banks of the Yarra near Darebin, part of
which is already a golf-course. Add to
which the Housing Commission has
sequestrated some of the best land out-
side the city, although it won’t be able
to use it for at least a generation. The
fences fall down, valuable grazing land is
lost and dairies and poultryfarms go out
of operations.— Melbn (Vic.).
“Green Grow the Deserts”
Charles Shaw’s article “Green Grows
the Deserts” (B. 10/12/’52) on the A.M.P.
land-settlement venture in the 90-mile
Desert (S.A.) is disparaging to those of
us who have lived here over the years,
particularly the early pioneers who, in the
earlier part of the century, and with horse-
teams and crude implements, fought the
scrub and laid the foundations upon
dhich the present prosperity and the
A.M.P. project are based.
To insinuate that the development of
the 90-mile Desert is almost entirely due
to the A.M.P. is ridiculous.
The facts are that prosperous farms
\are already in existence on each side of
and at various distances from the road
‘and railway between Coomandook and
Cunnawigara, a distance of over 80 miles.
The wool grown here isn’t dusty, and
is by no means limited to a few bales. It
generally brings somewhere near top
prices.
After harvest respectable stacks of
grain may be seen at the numerous sid-
ings. Yields of barley of over 50 bushels
per acre are not uncommon.
One farm of 700 acres—certainly a
picked one —produced in one year 60
bales of wool and 10 tons of lucerne-
seed.
We welcome the A.M.P. to the 90-
mile ; we look with envious eyes on their
mountains of Australian wire, wire-
netting, steel fence-posts and their
enormous woolshed built with Australian
galvanised-iron, and we offer them our
best wishes for the future.
A. H. H. Aldersy (S.A.).
The A.M.P. is doing a good job over
S.A.’s 90-mile desert; and Australia
seems cast for increased food-production
as the result of the Economic Conference
in Britain.
Why doesn’t the Federal Government
put it to the big financial institutions to
put some of their yearly lay-by into
development schemes?
There are nearly 150 life- and fire-
offices in Australia, and among them they
should be good for the cost, particularly
under a Federal guarantee.
They should get a good return on their
outlay, plus a long-term investment, and,
as in the case of the Victorian Govern-
ment’s guarantee of the State Savings
Bank, there couldn’t be any pay-out
under the guarantee.
We are often told we expect too much
from Canberra. What is wanted is a
good long pull, and a pull all together,
with the financial institutions, as in World
War I, helping with the necessary funds.
—C. H. Regelsen (Vic.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 207
Across.
I—Ruler1 —Ruler makes age come between
the devil and the rocky moun-
tain. (9) V
s—Out5 —Out from an excuse for plenty
of bridge in Scotland. (5)
8 — Gave a titled Spanish woman to
Edward. (7) V <
9 Confectionery tin kicks the
bucket. (7) A '
10 — Piano rings an exclamation of
disgust. (3)
11— This distinguishes the sides from
the sideshow not in any way at
all. (5)
12 — Tidy direction to a half-score and
another direction Swallowed. (6)
14 —Ex-convict to hang back. (3)
16—Silent way of indicating whether
or not Cain went into this land.
(3)
18 —Non-Mushing ease and a univer-
sity faculty hasn’t been saved.
(10)
21—Wit reports on sage. (10)
25 —One with a pronoun divides a
river for a while. (3)
27 — Figure reversing the fishing-gear.
(3 > ■
28— Sesquicentury possesses Pierrots.
(6)
29 — Artist suggests ruder alterations.
(3)
31 — Earnest without the home listener.
(3)
32 — Mount about a sweet beast
swallowing an honored artist. (7)
33 — Tongue of a woolgrower getting
the first-class century. (7)
34 Late about some money. (6)
35 — R uns the steamroller over apart-
ment X and X. (8)
Down.
1 — Apprentice’s contract in false-
teeth. (10)
2 The beasts observe her in pants.
(8)
3 About to marry when pulled
along again. (7)
4 Tea advertisement and a Euro-
• pean pollywig. (7)
5 Cooler sunburn for game Chinese.
(6)
6 Bantered when dispatched by
train. (6)
7 Shoe hidden with socks. (4)
9—Leave to study with the Earth
Goddess. (5)
13—Revolutionary movement charac-
teristic of this high position. (3)
15 —Divert employment after half a
day. (5)
17 —Utensils for the table preposition
like rails and Sydney trams. (5-5)
19 — Ugly fellow puts a neck protector
on an aeronaut. (8)
20— River rioted’without a boy. (3)
22—The spirit of the thing? (6)
23 I learnt to change and interlace.
(7)
24 — Shining artist takes a little girl to
a six-footer. (7)
25 First Teutonic conqueror of
Rome. (6)
26 — A couple of blokes take the
dames to tea. (3, 3)
30 —War souvenir defacing 19 down.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 206


fc..
PRODUCTS OF EXPERIENCED
DESIGNERS & MAKERS
m
m
I
IIKS
*mm
* k
IPBai
MARS All Geared
Head, S.S. & Sc. Lathe
Gap bed, hollow spindle, available to 12 ft. centres.
Built to Schlesinger limits of accuracy. Manufactured
of Meehanite castings produced in Mars laboratory controlled Meehanite Foundry.
EARLY AND IMMEDIATE DELIVERIES FROM CONTINUOUS SCHEDULES
MARS 16£in.
SHAPER
This is an ideal all-
purpose shaping
machine with a wide
operational range.
Designed to cut key
ways in long shafts.
Guaranteed accuracy.
IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY
THE “MARS”
GEAR DIVISION
Provides prompt service.
Gears completely manufac-
tured or your own blanks
generated by Sutherland,
Fellows, Bobbing or Glea-
son Bevel processes.
Makers of the
greatest range
of machine tools
in the Southern
Hemisphere
S®t«
MAMS
HIGH SPEED
PLANER
6' x 2’ 6" capacity
Automatic feeds
Ideal general purpose
planer. Castings of
heavy sections are of
robust design.
MEFIIANITt
(Regd, Trade Mark)
CASTINGS
AH castings are produced
in the Mars Foundry under
supervision of highly
trained metallurgical and
laboratory staffs, WE
MANUFACTURE ALL
GRADES of MEEHANITE
IRONS,
THE MARS No. 4
UNIVERSAL MILLING MACHINE
A fine and modem milling machine with guaranteed accuracy and outstanding qua-
lity. Rapid Power Traverse all movements. Wide range of speeds and feeds. Built in
electrics. Schlesinger standards of accuracy. Complete with all accessories.
Distributors in all States
W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth. S.A.: W, H. Butler & Co., 134 Waymouth Street,
Adelaide. Vic.: Herbert Osborne Pty. Ltd., 567-569 Little Bourke St., Melbourne, N.S.W.: Herbert
Osbourne Pty. Ltd., 109 Oxford St., Sydney. QLD.: Mars Machine Tool Mfg, Co. Pty. Ltd, TAS.:
Perkins Pty. Ltd., 345 Collins St., Hobart... INDIA: (Bombay Province) R. S. Mehta & Co., Ali Chrs.,
Port Bombay. PHILIPPINES: The Earnsbaws Dock & Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
mils
MACHINE TOOL
Manufactg. Co. Pty. Ltd
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
