

FOR PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION , BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
ELIOTH GRUNERROSE LINDSAY'S PICTURE
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3822
Wednesday, May 13, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sy hey, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission'by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
WESTMINSTER ABBEY-
CHAPEL OF HENRY VII
BRITISH cra|||raanship reached its
zenith in the building of Henry
VII’s Chapel at the eastern end of West-
minster Abbey. It is without doubt the
finest Perpendicular building in Britain
and the fan-tracery vaulting of the roof
is of a beauty that defies adequate de-
scription. So lavish is the scale of its
magnificent architecture and furnishings
that it has been computed a sum of
money equal to a million and a half
pounds in modern currency was spent
on this work.
The chief reason for this great under-
taking was due to the King’s wish to
provide a mausoleum for himself and
his family. The first stone was laid in
1503 and completed in 1519, ten years
after the death of Henry VII. His mag-
nificent tomb, surrounded by an eleven
foot high bronze grille stands at the
eastern end of the Chapel. It was at
the foot of this tomb, behind the high
grille, that the Coronation Chair with
the Stone of Scone was placed for safe-
keeping following its return to the Abbey
after being stolen by three Scottish
students on Christmas morning, 1950.
On March 25, 1952, the Coronation
Stone and Chair were returned to their
traditional place in Edward the Con-
fessor’s Chapel. On Coronation Day the
Chair, with its historic Stone, will be
placed before the High Altar, scene of
the Coronation ceremony. As a result of
the theft of the Stone of Scone, a new
alarm system was installed and anyone
attempting to enter the Abbey at night
would sound a bell at Scotland Yard.


frcelcnicc
liliMj
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
" CUT HERE AND MAW—
To STOTT’S: Please send your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address i...
(S.B. 163) Age
BULLETIN FOR BOOK LOVERS:
The Beltane Book Bureau, P.O. Box 965, Wellington,
N.Z., specialises in rare and current N.Z. and Aus-
tralian books, also in bookish items of general in-
terest. Our Bulletins and Supplements give advance
news, gossip and book sale prices. (Annual sub. 5/-.)
We specialise in Katherine Mansfield items, in Aus-
tralian and N.Z. poetry, history, flora and fauna
of N.Z., South Seas, Antarctica, etc., and publish
Collectors’ Monographs (12/6 set of 6).
The Red Page
A GERMAN ON AUSTRALIA
Professor Georg Erler, author of Aus-
tralia!. Kontinent am Randeder Welt
(Otto Swartz, Gottingen), is a distin-
guished professor in Gottingen University
and has specialised in the study of inter-
national law and economics. His inquiries
took him to South Africa shortly before
the outbreak of the second world war,
and wishing to escape he moved into
Portuguese East Africa and signed on in
a very humble capacity in a steamer
bound for Spain. This ship was inter-
cepted by the British naVy, and Professor
Erler was taken as prisoner-of-war to
various camps and finally to Australia,
where he spent six years (1940-46) as
p.-0.-w.
A trained and indefatigable researcher,
he made use of his enforced leisure to
examine further the English law system
and make copious notes on Australian
conditions. Though his rank still remained
in the humble station he had been forced
to choose, he was treated kindly by the
Swiss Consul and by the Y.M.C.A. and,
one is glad to learn, by certain camp
commandants; and was allowed all the
literature he desired in order to pursue
his studies into English law and the Aus-
tralian scene. This devotion to research
under the unpleasant conditions cannot
fail to arouse our admiration. After
release from the prison camp Professor
Erler had some teaching experience in
Adelaide, and this enabled him to look
into certain aspects of Australian life
which confinement in a camp did not
permit. On returning to Gottingen, Pro-
fessor Erler completed his book on Aus-
tralia. It was published in 1952.
Professor Erler’s intention has been to
describe Australia as it really is, and so
prevent disillusionment in those Germans
who have been attracted by rosy propa-
ganda. An immigrant who bears a grudge
against his adopted country is not a
useful immigrant, he asserts, and here we
shall agree with him:
Australia is not a treasure island in the
South Sea where a competence is easily
attained. It is not a romantic colonial land
where the gentleman-farmer sips his iced
whisky in the veranda of his bungalow,
leaving manual work to the aborigines. It
is not a Wild West with virgin territory
where the pioneer can establish a farm and
supply with his own hands all necessary
labor, and it is not a paradise for the white
worker.
So Professor Erler in very compact and
readable form takes under review the
whole Australia scene—geography, cli-
mate, scenery, fauna and flora, history,
tradition, culture, law, religion, demo-
graphy, politics, economics, industry, with
special reference to imports and exports
and attitude of the Commonwealth to
immigration. Finally there are some prac-
tical hints for German immigrants which
are all very sensible; amongst the
“dont’s” are criticism of the Christian
religion and the Royal family—“other
offences may be pardoned ; these never.”
Professor Erler set himself out to write
without bias or temper. We may say at
once that though the intention was
assuredly there, and though the effort
nearly succeeded, yet a completely de-
tached survey has been, under the special
circumstances and considering human
nature, incapable of fulfilment. Had Pro-
fessor Erler visited Australia in peace-
time and settled down to some congenial
work bringing financial and social success,
his optical glass might have been a little
rosier. His facts have been carefully
checked, and can be accepted as accu-
rate ; but there are questions of taste
which argument is futile.
He thinks the eucalyptus is not a pretty
tree; perhaps he would be surprised to
learn that Australian visitors to the Black
Forest are not favorably impressed by
the standardised ranks of conifers they
see stretched mile after mile. He thinks
our education too much directed towards
passing of examinations; and many Aus-
tralians feel the same, though they would
like some guidance in the choice of a
substitute.
There are two topics on which the
opinions of foreign visitors are almost
certain to be wrong—law and sport. The
handling of law-in-Australia is brief—
possibly Professor Erler has reserved this
for the larger study of English law he
has written. The common law of Eng-
land which Australia has adopted, though
founded on Teutonic tradition and usage,
is treated to much unfriendly criticism
by German legal writers; if a vigorous
defence is thought necessary, this can be
found in the publications of American
jurists. Professor Erler thinks that law-
suits in Australia are too long and too
costly, and that there are too few judges ;
and possibly he is right, but he might
mention the fact that judges and magist-
rates administer the law with incorrup-
tible rectitude uninfluenced by political
or other pressure.
On sport Professor Erler is sadly at
sea; he thinks the average Australian is
a spectator and not a participant in manly
exercises. Had he attended a few inter-
school contests he would have come to
another conclusion. The victories in
cricket, tennis, cycling and many other
sports cannot be put down to the training
of a few gladiators, nor can the prowess
of Australian soldiers in battle. The
people of Germany were assured by their
leaders that the British had degenerated
from their former hardihood, had become
onlookers only, and therefore could be
easily conquered in war. This miscalcula-
tion has had tragic consequences for Ger-
mans in two world wars.
Another slip is the statement, coming
after a warm eulogy of The Bulletin
for fostering local literary talent, that
Australians are not book-buyers—London
publishers know better. Professor Erler
has apparently not had opportunities to
study Australian art; he mentions two
artists only, Hans Hey sen and Namat-
jira.
These criticisms made, one must really
regard this book as a notable achieve-
ment. Australians are accustomed to
visitors, after returning to their homes,
writing spitefully because they were not
taken at their own valuation. There is
not a trace of this pettiness in this
volume, which js an honest attempt to
tell the truth on the part of a highly
trained and intellectual jurist and econo-
mist.
W. A. OSBORNE.
Grandma Moses
My Life’s History (Deutsch) is an auto-
biography by Grandma Moses which
Grandma didn’t write, and its dustjacket
is a colored photograph of the old lady
wearing spotless white and painting a
landscape in the open, which Grandma
doesn’t do ; but those who are interested
in this phenomenal old person as an
artist, a human being or a modern
American myth will find a great deal of
charm in the life-story which she has
told to Otto Kallir.
Grandma is, of course, the artist, now
aged 93, whose paintings were discovered
in a country drug-store by a New York
dealer. They were enormously publicised
when Grandma came to New York and
brought her pickles and preserves along
with them. Intellectuals and the public
alike lost their heads or their hearts to
them —both to the paintings and the
pickles— apd, while the public has bought
her works in Christmas-card form by the
million, Louis Bromfieid writes the fore-
word to the present volume in terms of
the highest praise, saluting her as a
genuine “primitive” and suggesting affini-
ties not only with Rousseau but with
Breughel.
Her life-story, as Mr. Kallir has skil-
fully distilled it from a handwritten MS.
by the old lady and subsequent conversa-
tions at her home, is a kind of American
epic in little; the American epic. She
even knew the author of “The Old Oaken
Bucket,” or knew somebody who knew
the author, and has painted a picture
expounding it; or, rather, many pictures
expounding it, for her favorite subjects,
like “The Old Checkered House,” have
been repeated many times on the receipt
of orders from eager customers.
Grandma remembers a family legend
of a great-great-grandfather on the Isle
of Man whose parents died of fever when
he was eleven and who, walking across
country to get help from his uncle, found
the man dead “And the widow sat on a
plow, and was weeping hard, with her
three or four little children around her.”
She remembers another legend of her
father in his infancy in America, when
he kept disappearing from the house and
was found to be escaping through the
“cat-hole” in the front door; and Uncle
Archibald, who invented a bicycle for
himself but forgot to invent brakes for
it, so broke his head, and the bike, on a
barn at the foot of the hill.
She remembers being a child and
borrowing an aunt’s lovely “jockey” hat
to wear home from church, and losing
it in the millpond ; and maybe the same
aunt, Aunt Ruhama, escaping from the
Southern Army in a wagon with her 13-
.year-old son hidden under her hoop-
skirt—-if the Southerners had caught him
they would have taken him into their
Army. There was also Aunt Sophia, who
used to put the wishbone of the turkey
over the door after Thanksgiving “to
catch a fellow.”
Grandma herself was one of ten
children who arrived in the family in
bunches “like radishes,” She was given
a silver thimble for reading the Bible
right through. She learned how to make
soap, candles, maple-syrup, fern-tea and
apple-butter. She married, went pioneer-
ing with her husband up and down the
country, and had children, one of whom
she caught trying to pull the baby’s hair
out.
She was baptised in middle-age by a
preacher with the appropriate name of
Mr. Jet. She saw a ghost; made potato-
chips for a living when the farm wasn’t
paying ; was ducked in a pond when a
horse bolted. More ominously, she did
pictorial fancywork in worsted and quilt-
ing ; and then at 78, when her hands had
grown too stiff for fancywork, took up
serious art with oils on masonite: with
the phenomenal results aforementioned.
My Life’s History includes a number
of color-reproductions of the paintings ;
and very charming they look, too, full
of people running about catching tur-
keys, hanging out the washing or moving
house, usually against a background of
snow, for which Grandma uses tinsel.
Their crowded activity does indeed sug-
gest Breughel, but at some considerable
technical distance. A more exact com-
parison would probably be the art
of Rousseau or the poetry of The
Bulletin’s famous Bellerive: for which
there is also much, but not too much, to
be said.
PAINTING ON SILK
The tortoiseshell cat, the tortoiseshell cat
Curled up close on a bamboo mat,
Her eyes like amber, her tongue as pink
As a strawberry lying under a leaf.
Speckled and spotted and striped with
shade,
Colored like honey the wild bees made
Who supped on a pale and scented flight
Of moth-like flowers under the moon.
The hairs of her tail are soft and fine,
She has curled it into a number nine,
And nine young maidens run to see
What the tortoiseshell cat may bid them do.
From a collar of red around her throat
A gold bell chimes its single note.
“I am the cat of the King of China,
Let him die who knows one finer.”
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DORSON.
Nevil Shufe Again
In the opening of Nevil Shute’s new
book, In the Wet (Heinemann), the de-
scription of the death of an old station-
hand during a flood in a Chinaman’s
humpy in northern Queensland, sucking
an opiuml-pipe and wandering in the
brain, is not bad at ajl; and the portrait
of the old man is solid and real.
But from this point the book goes
as mad as a meat-axe. The old identity’s
spirit inhabits a newly-born aboriginal
quadroon; and the story shifts thirty
years ahead, to when the boy, grown-up,
becomes captain of one of the aeroplanes
of the Queen’s Flight, charged with the
duty of ferrying Queen Elizabeth and
her Consort and grown-up family to their
various residences in Canada, Africa
and Australia. The climax of the story
is the Queen’s decision, harried by a
critical Labor Government, to put Eng-
land under a governor-general, and take
up residence in Australia. The huge
Labor majority in England is split when
some of them find it impossible to con-
ceive of life without a monarchy, and
vote to get the Queen back to England.
Mr. Shute showed considerable im-
patience with the English set-up in The
Far Country; and in this book he makes
his attitude even more plain. Australia
is to pioneer a new voting-system which
gives extra votes to family men, more
extra votes to professional men, and so
on, thus raising government above the
tyranny of mediocrity. Britain is to be-
come full of the empty houses of those
who have migrated to Australia. There
are a few comic touches, such as the en-
visaged communing together in their old
age of gaffers Menzies and Calwell, and
the dustjacket, presumably done abroad,
a north-Queensland scene of a humpy
surrounded by deciduous trees. The
love-affair of the Australian pilot and
one of the Queen’s secretaries is one of
those fleshless skeletons that Mr. Shute
dresses up so well.
But the book deserves, and probably
will get, the reward of audacity; if half
of Mr. Shute’s bravery is a contempt of
the dangers of sloppy writing and
obvious thinking, the other half is an
effort to do something new and different
for the Coronation Year that will, in
the publishers’ words, “win the heart of
the whole English-speaking world as no
novel, even of Nevil Shute’s, has ever
done before.”
Alas, it is exactly this “heart-winning”
quality in Mr. Shute’s writing that re-
stricts his audience to a little less than
“the whole English-speaking world.”
Crooks in Sydney
There is nothing extraordinary about
The Green Opal (Jarrolds), as a thriller,
except that it is by an Australian
journalist, Henry C. James, and is set in
Sydney, with excursions to migrant
camps, the Snowy River and the Barrier
Reef.' Mr. James knows his Sydney,
although his Robert Malone of the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth Squad of Special
Investigators should have known better
than to have gone down Castlereagh-
street and along Martin-place to his
boss’s headquarters on the fourth floor
of the Commonwealth Bank buildings.
Mr. Malone is on the track of a big-
time crook known as “The Australian,”
who imports reefers and hot diamonds
in little parcels entrusted to migrants by
strangers overseas as presents to be de-
livered to so-called relatives in Australia.
A 20-year-old bodgie distributor of
marihuana fished out murdered from
the surf at Palm Beach centres Malone’s
suspicions upon a New Australian night-
club singer who had been wearing an
opal ring similar to that found on the
dead man. The Phillip-street New'Aus-
tralian woman-jewel ier who had spon-
sored the night-club singer’s immigration
into 'Australia is found to have spon-
sored a number of other doubtful char-
acters, and Malone sets out to track
them down.
The best scenes of the book are of a
tough Australian navvy protecting a
Dutch migrant shovel-worker from police
questioning, of a Snowy River camp
superintendent knocking down an Italian
workman who has shopped a Dutch
waitress-suspect because she would not
lie with him, and of a murder in a dis-
reputable night-club by three Sydney
gangsters—the characterisation here is
better than is to be found in most such
books.
The scene always returns to the high-
class night-club from which, finally, the
arch-criminal abducts Malone’s girl,
Katherine, to his yacht, to hold her as
hostage; and there is the usual unveiling
of the whole sinister set-up, and a hue-
and-cry ending in some stirring cliff-
climbing round Bermagui way. In such
ways Sydney is gradually becoming
accepted as a place where things can
happen.
Desiree: Annemarie Selinko (Heine-
mann). This novel, in the form of her
fictional diary, is the life story of Eugenie
(later known as Desiree) Clary who,
having been jilted by Napoleon in favor
of Josephine, made a happy love-match
with that General Bernadette who became
a Marshal of France and, eventually,
King of Sweden. Desiree’s sister, Julie,
married Joseph Bonaparte: the ill-
starred King of Spain. It is not difficult
to see why this book is a best-seller. Its
potted history may be oversimplified, its
prose style unbearably arch and its
presentation wearisome, but it contains
compensating ingredients of high
romance and intriguing speculation. The
main interest (a good subject for a better
book) is in the reactions of those very
ordinary men and women who so spec-
tacularly had “greatness thrust upon
them” by Napoleon. Most people have
idly wondered what it would be like
suddenly to become royalty: part of the
answer can be read here, both on and
between the lines.


&
m ■ 5
mm: M
'W
V'
m
V "
fit
,Mt iirfi
8
a
*
"_ : *f - ■
x
» £&S
■■■■PlP
llllilliii
y M.i->- * y ■■
• •
wps r.-’ .* *
- ;
■ ■
'
' - '-;<x v-i'-;'
I
mmmwmm? * r >'wz
mmmmm::*' y msm
: ■;«
■ ■'
Your windows are the
background of your furnishings
And nothing is more beautiful than Venetian blinds. Ask a friend where to buy the best Venetians;
9 times out of 10 the answer will be “Anthony Horderns’, of course.” We make up Venetians to
any size to fit any window. Our “Hordura” metal lathe blinds are chip-proof in cream, pink, blue,
green, ivory, 5 other pastels. Wooden blinds with lathes of Canadian cedar in any colour scheme.
6/11 sq ft. Min. 12 sq. ft. per blind.
&£■>• =•
IB
E "
m
mM
mm
-wi.,,
■cg.X^.*..!
RTr/J
l i .
a
u
«ifc
pi
MDLL AND BLINDS in the new colours:
Slate Grey, Jade Green, Sand and Red, as well
as Beige and Brown. Ours is only the best
quality Scotch Holland. We call at your home,
give advice on blinds, measure for any you
should want. Anywhere in the Metropolitan Area.
CANVAS BLINDS . Any type canvas you
choose we’ll make up in either Florentine or plain
drop styles. Plain stripes, gay multhstripes ... in
either woven canvas or the famous Brella proofed
canvas. ’Phone or write to-day if you want any
type of canvas blind in your home.
Send for our free booklet on blinds.
Experts prepared this booklet that shows you just how to measure
for curtains and blinds. If you live out of town, it’s invaluable
when ordering furnishings for your windows. Send for yours tO'day.
,i «
m
i
Billowing festoons for your prettiest door.
Fit any door from 2ft. 6in. to 2ft. lOin.
wide and up to 6ft. lOin. high. Cream
or ivory satin. Festoons are 70/- each.
mma
wmmjstxi
\ %
l#V V
r.
m
>r
m
Crossover Curtains and Dutch Set both
in plain cream leno marquisette. . ; .
?ft° S 6in! W-; 4ft. 6in„ 32/6; 6ft. 39/6.
?ft. tC 6m S , et 32/6; 4ft. 6in„ 3?A; 6ft. 42A.
'"r
2k
! I.
m
ipjla
yt
.- 7 I g
kjjfri ‘l> J
Shower Curtains feature the new plastic
patterns, the new colours. Fish, swans,
flamingo and florals. Crossover or Dutch
sets can be made in same material.
Shower Curtains:
6ft. x 3ft., 16/3; 6ft. x 6ft., 32/6.
Crossovers;
3ft. 6in., 35A; 4ft. 6in., 37/6; 6ft., 47/6.
Dutch:
3ft. 6in., 39/6; 4ft. 6in., 45 A; 6ft„ 55A.
■ •TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
Anthony Hordern
BLINDS, CURTAINS, THIRD FLOOR. ’PHONE M 2401. MAIL ORDERS TO BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY


Old versus New Methods
Education and Delinquency
By PHIL. O. SOPHER
THE case for and against child delin-
quency has been argued on the
diverse grounds of comics, radio,
films, environment and moral stan-
dards. To condemn comics categorically
is to imply the Press is evil; to censure
films and radio is to suggest that man’s
inventive genius has been corrupted ; to
impugn environment is to ignore the
effects of heredity; to blame moral stan-
dards is to point the finger of derision at
philosophies.
It is defensible that all these things
contain elements of good; it is indefen-
sible to suppose all these things are bad.
It is not things themselves but the
thoughts which influenced men to pro-
duce the things and the purposes for
which the things are used that makes their
effects good or bad.
Children are inventive, insatiably
curious, imitative, intensely attracted by
color. These faculties directed and con-
trolled are productive of good; allowed
unrestrained freedom, productive of evil.
Children cannot be blamed for sticking
noses into comics, plastering ears to
radios, gazing round-eyed at rainbow
lights of cabarets, being thrilled to bits
at “pichers.” Children are solely con-
cerned with entertainment-value. Having
little analytical ability to judge character,
they cannot be held responsible for
attempting to emulate their heroes.
The blame for detrimental elements in
things must be laid at the door of those
who permit things with evil elements to
become a custom of the country. Clean
things of evil factors and things become
relatively harmless, provided they are
used judiciously. Taken in excessive
doses, innocent things can still give an
innocent child mental and moral indiges-
tion.
Visual absorption, by reading and/or
pictures, stimulates the mind. The
former agitates mental images and im-
mediate mental activity ; the latter stimu-
lates imagination and delayed thought.
Rightly used they activate the child’s
“curiosity” bent and train perceptives in
constructive habits of critical observation.
Wrongly used they produce irresponsibles.
Certain psychologists have discovered
the cause of delinquency in the “child-
sense of inadequacy” when he has felt
himself supplanted by another child or
other children in the parents’ interests.
This inference has never been proved and
is not likely to be proved. If, a child
sensed it was displaced, any subsequent
delinquency may be the selfish jealousy
of a spoilt brat who needs a stinging
lesson on his unsettling conduct.
These inquiries into the cause of delin-
quency direct the attention finally to an
unhappy knack of Australians: the odd
ability to select the disturbing features
of the U.S. “way -of life” —a senseless
term in itself, for who can correctly define
a “national way of life”? —and one of
the major causes of delinquency has been
the importation of U.S. psychological-
systems of education.
Psychology has stimulated the study of
man as a personal, mental and emotional
being, but it has not formed a “way of
life.” It has evolved a “technique of life”
about 30 per cent, science, 10 per cent,
humanism and 60 per cent, balderdash.
Wheir folk first heard of psychology
they took a heart turn and could not
close their eyes in sleep because they were
so Worried about their little egos. They
chattered with dismal croaks that every-
one was daft and the universe was busted.
Well, when the last psychologist has gone
to Limbo, folk will be pleasantly sur-
prised to discover the world still rolling
around sanely, people still marrying and
giving in marriage, and children just the
same lovable imps of the devil.
Psychologists at first went all hot-
headed for the advice of the old Greek
sage “Know thyself.” Apparently they
learned to know themselves so well they
got tired of themselves and took up the
study of others. After they had learned
all about other people, from their dan-
druff to their ingrowing toenails, they got
tired of them, too, and looked eagerly
around for other sources whereon to
exercise their ability of knowing. With a
knowing leer they decided to reform the
schools.
The schools needed reforming. There
is a right and a wrong way of developing
the child mind, and schools of the past
were more wrong than right. Study was
hard. Children rarely had a desire to
attend. Wagging was common. Hours
were long, cramming a curse, homework
a burden. The child who failed to learn
got a clip from dad and six of the best
from teacher.
Children were glad when they came to
leaving age. They were happy to go out
and earn a living. Then it was, however,
they realised what the school, with all
its faults, had done for them. Those
first hard, slow, painful bricks of learning
had been built into enduring character
and maturity. They had learned the prin-
ciples of personality the hard way.
They had grasped the art of living as
individuals in unity with others. They
knew now they must always remain pupils
in the greater and harder school of life,
and become agitators in the leaven of
life, not just agitators ; the active, not the
drone ; the earnest, not the bleater.
While the old-time school was oscillat-
ing rightly and wrongly, the kindergarten
system was sailing smoothly on to success.
Psychologists, sincere school-reformers,
urged by excellent, wholesome but mis-
directed desire, assumed the kindergarten
system of “learning by play” could in its
essentials be transferred to the schools ;
and this was the paradoxical psycho-
logical error that has led to much delin-
quency. *
The psychologists operated on the
anatomy of the school, removed the hard
heart, but unfortunately removed the
backbone. They treated the nervous
system, removed fear, but unfortunately
removed the constructive element of fear
that fosters discipline. Dazzled by the
blinding truth of the axiom “Know thy-
self,” they believed “Child master thy-
self” fearlessly without fear would work.
It never shall. “Master thyself” is a
character-expression of adulthood, of a
firm resolute mind, not the plastic intelli-
gence of a child.
Psychologists pandered to self-expres-
sion of little egos, removed corporal
punishment out of the schools. They
confused the thing for the effect of the
thing in the hands of a Thing. Certainly
a sadist is a terrible monster, but the
cane did not make sadists. A sadist is a
sadist. Without a cane he can be cruel
in many other ways.
Psychologists assume a child’s moral
nature may be appealed to through innate
powers of analysis. Anyone who believes
this is just plain daft or has never been
an imp of a child and was most likely
born a psychologist. A child’s powers of
analysis are just potential. He rarely
makes nice distinctions. He is controlled
by appetite, and appetite needs control-
ling. He must be fed morsels of learning.
If he refuses to learn, the principles must
be driven home in his plastic mind by
humane corporal punishment, and then
he will grasp the first great lesson of all
lessons —the fundamental of common-
sense. The kindergarten system of “learn-
ing by play” works successfully with
infants. It does not work with school-
students. It breeds evasion of responsi-
bility. “Learning by play” bloats the
student with cake with lolly on it instead
of feeding him with solid bread-and-
cheese of learning. In place of hard
school seats forming callouses on the
behind and self-discipline in the mind,
he is solicited to learn by bribery, and
cushioned in moral flabbiness and intel-
lectual drowsiness. Instead of fun after
school time, controlled by parents, he is
taken from study for regimented sport.
Instead of military-training in his. own
time under stern discipline, he is put
into a uniform and marched up the play-
ing field and marched down again.
It stands to reason that processes of
education perverted in this manner
cannot equal with any degree of success
the old-time system. It stands to reason
that less is learned in the limited time at
the disposal of both pupil and teacher.
Taking the “play element” from after-
school-time and the kindergarten into the
school has made school attractive at the
expense of character and discipline.
A child has three conditions of
wretchedness: hunger, sickness and
learning. A parent satisfies the first, a
doctor may cure the second, nothing in
the world can change the third. Learn-
ing to the mind of the child has been
and is always repulsive. When school is
made attractive enough to attract the
child, there is something abnormal about
the child or something radically wrong
with the system. When a child is sur-
rounded by attractive learning it does
not follow he will prefer to learn rather
than attempt to pander to the secondary
consideration of attractiveness. Certainly
he will attempt to learn something simply
for the bribery of attractiveness, but he
will not exert himself to leam for the
sake of knowledge unless compelled by
discipline.
A child allowed to make relative choice
and decision becomes pert. At first this
has a delightful aspect. When it be-
comes a habit he is an irritating pest,
and more than likely will end up in the
juvenile court, where a magistrate, sub-
consciously bamboozled by psycho-
education, lets him off. He then is a
hero to his playmates. His swollen head
swells fatter. He finishes as a gangster.
Let a child have his own way, let him
roam free, and he will get into hell’s
own mischief; otherwise he is not a
normal child. Subject him now and
again to disciplinary commonsense and
he will leam to appreciate the true worth
of freedom and trust in his decency.
A child should be sure he is loved.
His little heart may be unlocked by the
key of continuing kindness, but unless the
key is sometimes used to clip restless
legs he will soon grab it and toss it down
the drain. A child is unpredictable as
the sea-breeze, but trim the sails of his
ship of life with commonsense, fasten
the ropes of discipline with good moral
knots and he will ride the storms of life
on an even keel.
The Disengagement Problem
TAKE the young man who,
having foolishly talked himself
into, or allowed the girl to talk
him into, becoming engaged;
or who, after a long mush session on
soft moonlight and softer music,
comes to to find himself being con-
gratulated ; or who, after a gin-sling
too many at a party, discovers that
he had given his usually tightly-
controlled tongue too much wagging-
space; or who through divers other
fell causes has found himself com-
mitted to keeping some female for
anything up to half a century in free
board and lodging and clothes.
He will, of course, be in what the
poet calls a “transport.”
• It will, sooner or later, be a public
transport, for by the time he’ll have
coughed-up for the large solitaire
diamond ring *she’ll have selected, and
has committed himself to buying all
the household things, he’ll never be
able to afford private transport, not
even an old “bomb.”
It might come to pass then that
one morning he may unthinkingly
go around to her place before break-
fast to see her about something and
happen to see her before she has put
her face on; or he may have pon-
dered deeply oyer the possibility that
she could get like her ma, whom he
has heard say was only eight-stone-
two when she was Shirley’s age ; or
he might just decide, albeit some-
what belatedly, that beer and poker
and weekend fishing are better
hobbies.
What, then, is he to do to wriggle
out of his situation without leaving
himself open to the prospect of hear-
ing some Q.C., in a voice vibrant
with synthetic emotion, describe him
to a gloating jury as a heartless
monster who had trifled with the
affections of a trusting, innocent
girl—a girl who was now humiliated,
held up to public ridicule, whose
prospects of matrimony had been
seriously affected, whose faith in
men had been shattered, whose very
personality had been tragically
changed by this searing experience,
etc., etc.
He has several courses open to
him.
One simple but effective method is
for him to select a few hairy goats
from among the final acceptances
and confide to her old man that he
has the information direct from the
stable that they’ve been kept on the
ice for the races they’re in and kid
him to plunge on ’em. After about
four Saturdays he should be as popu-
lar with the family as the Taxation
Commissioner is.
This softening-up process can be
accelerated by biting the old man in
between for a fiver, and when a few
weeks go by, and he is chatted about
returning it, inform him curtly that
he’ll get it back as soon as his future
son-in-law enjoys a run of heads at
the swy school.
The consequent frigid relations
should provide an excellent atmos-
phere for the yike which could easily
become the preliminary to severed
relations and freedom.
Working on the generally sound
principle that blood is thicker than
water, extreme candor regarding her
relations will do much to assist his
cause.
If, for instance, he arrives for Sun-
day night’s tea to find an elderly
aunt there, too, a loud remark such
as “ ’Struth, who’s the old bag? She
looks as if she’s had it,” will be very
helpful. Or, on being introduced,
exclaim “Hail, Belinda. You’re
looking very full in the face —are
your corsets too tight?”
Should the visiting relation be an
elderly uncle, such a greeting as
“Oh, Uncle Tom, is it? You’re the
one, I suppose, we’re all sweating on
to wriggle out? Too bad, Tom,
you’re looking damnably healthy!”
should get quick results at the end
of the evening.
The fiance should never make the
mistake, however, if her uncle is
looking particularly decrepit, of say-
ing heartily “You know. Uncle Tom,
I think if you had a good feed of
steak and a clean shirt there’s not a
woman around the district would be
safe from you.” He might take this
as a compliment and put you back
ace-high with the family again.
The development of very parsi-
monious habits is also good strategy.
For her birthday the sole gift of an
all-day sucker should bring swift
results. Or invite her out to dinner,
hinting that the donning of her most
glamorous trappings would be an
appropriate concomitant to the
classic viands ; then take her to a
hash-house and order a fur-pie with
tomato-sauce.
If that doesn’t bust Romance open
at every seam her affection will have
proved to be stronger than those
hoops of steel old Polonius spoke
about, and the lover may as well
Resign himself to the inevitable.
The young man whose fiancee is
learning to sing is especially faVored.
All he has to do is wait till she is
accompanying herself at the piano ;
as she goes for a high note he can
rush out to the kitchen and come
back with the carving-knife shouting
“Hold it for a bit longer—this wants
grinding-down badly.”
The ring will be as good as back
in his pocket again.
Other potent aids to freedom in-
clude digging her in the ribs and
laughing heartily whenever some-
one gets murdered in a film ; wear-
ing a Panama hat in midwinter and
his trousers creased at the sides;
telling the truth when she asks what
he thinks of her new hat.
When all else fails the idea tried
out by a friend is guaranteed to
secure any young man’s freedom. He
invited his fiancee and her mother
to a party, to which he also asked
some Bohemian friends. As a climax
to the wild junketings he appeared
in his birthday-suit carrying a dipper-
ful of beer.
The ring came back by special
messenger next day.
Bo.
Next Week
“The Bride Goes Home”
Gavin Casey, who was working
in America at the time and met
many of them, tells how the
Australian girls who married
Americans in war-time got along
when they went to the U.S.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, May 13, 1953
VoL 74—No. 3822
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521;
‘Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth, ' *
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
A WORKABLE SENATE
It is not a very cheering thought that Dr. Evatt’s
plans to control the Government by means of a
“Labor” Senate majority have failed only by a small
margin, the Government losing a seat in the aggregate.
It might have been reasonable to expect that no
intelligent electorate would fall for the kind of argu-
ment and advocacy which “Labor” leaders brought to
campaign platforms.
They approached the issues of the election in the
disruptive spirit of Leninism, which enjoins that the
struggle for power must, be “desperate and merciless,”
and that it is permissible in the interests of securing
mastery for a Socialist dictatorship to “employ cunning,
to resort to trickery and sometimes even to overlook
or conceal the truth.”
This injunction was followed to the letter. “Labor”
overlooked or concealed everything which it thought
might be unpalatable to the electors. It repudiated
its own objective of socialisation which stands at the
head of its platform; but it asked the electors to
censure the Government for “gross repudiation of
electoral commitments and recklessly deceptive policy-
speeches in 1949 and 1951.” It demanded a vote to
“safeguard Australia against the danger of a series of
constitutional deadlocks by giving a majority to
Labor.” Yet “Labor” deadlocked the Senate for 18
months after 1949 in flat defiance of the most over-
whelming mandate given to a Liberal-C.P. Government
in history.
The ethical standards of Dr. Evatt and his
followers were shown by the fact that they impudently
made these demands “on the essentially moral ground
that any Government which repudiates its own election
promises has violated a clear contract with the
people.” They themselves, since their smashing defeat
in 1949, have never rested a minute to prevent the
Government keeping its contracts. And their own,
embodied in their platform, have become so much
wastepaper. Their constitution demands the abolition
of the Senate ; yet they proposed to use it as instru-
ment to govern without responsibility. Their con-
stitution calls for relentless war on the “capitalist,”
yet they have done nothing during the campaign but
court unworthy employer pressure-groups of a type
which they particularly profess to abhor.
There is some comfort in the position in that the
vote shows a distinct turn of the tide and a swing
back towards Liberalism despite all that “Labor” could
do in’ vilification, panicmongering and promises.
Dr. Evatt professes to jubilate because he says the
result is “a clear vote of censure a majority which
transferred to the House of Representatives would
have resulted in substantial victory for Labor” ; but
this is sheer nonsense. The kind of poll just held
lacks the elements and influences which operate at a
general election, including the impact of the personali-
ties of candidates and the clear-cut issue which in
this case was necessarily absent.
The final return promises to show Liberal-C.P.
majorities in most of the basic Government-held
electorates, with the indication that if the effects of the
drastic but salutary steps which were taken a year ago
continue to multiply the Liberal-C.P. parties will be
able to win an election next year by a satisfactory
working' majority.
The Government will not, it is hoped, be ungrateful
for its narrow escape from destruction. The campaign
should have revealed to it the feebleness of its
publicity resources and organisational methods, which
have been appallingly inept in some States in contrast
with its general efficiency as a Government. The result
also should breed a resolution to take some steps to
put. the Senate on a new basis while opportunity is
there to do it. Under the present system, wilfully
introduced by “Labor” in 1949 to provide a weapon
to defeat the electoral mandate, nothing but chaos
and disruption lie ahead. Dr. Evatt’s trick has already
cost something like £750,000 for the holding of two
elections for which there was not the slightest con-
stitutional justification in view of the great victory of
the Menzies-Fadden Government in 1949. And it will
continue to produce deadlocks until the millennium,
and in fact could destroy Parliament as an institution
if drastic and early reforming steps are not taken.
Even now the Government majority, which seems
likely to be 31 to 29, will be precarious and insufficient,
since at least two members are in dangerously poor
health on the Government side. It is imperative if
the Senate is to live that it should cease to be con-
PEKING MAN
trolled by razor-edged majorities such as are regularly
inevitable under the present system of so-called “pro-
portional-representation.” No member of the present
Parliament can fail to appreciate that “Labor” has
abandoned constitutional principles ; that it is deter-
mined from now onwards that no Government shall
govern unless a “Labor” one ; that it has committed
itself to every kind of obstruction which will thwart
any majority that opposes it. That is the negation of
everything the British system of democracy stands for.
And it is the duty of the Government and of the
sane and sober majority of Australians to defeat
“Labor’s” intention by every constitutional means, and
to assure that when a Parliamentary majority is elected
and instructed it shall have a clear run and a fair go
and shall have it in its power to counter Communist-
type tactics.
To that end, the Government should make the
amendment of the Senate election-laws its first duty
in Parliament, apart from reorganising public-relations
arrangements for making its acts and policy clearly
understandable to the electors.
Cold-Hot War in Asia
Even if the invading troops retreat, as they seem
to be doing, without having tested French strength,
they have no intention of letting the matter stay where
it is. Not only is the Viet-minh movement being
fostered by the Communist Chinese as puppet-
managers for the Cominform, but there are other
movements in being, armed or armable, whose interests
lie outside Indo-China. An “autonomous” Com-
munist Government of Siam operates from Cheli in
disputed territory in Yunnan. In the same town is
seated a group of dissident Burmese Shan agitators.
And in Northern Siam, in an area beyond the Mekong
from the recent advance, is a Communist group of
“refugees” about 100,000 strong. Current events seem
to give substance to plans which these last made as
early as 1950.
Everywhere, all through this debatable area on
the fringes of States which are unstable and full of
discontent, the Communist organisation exists on a
major scale encouraged in the north by large groups of
Viet-minh troops hanging on the fringe of the troubled
area but making no moves which can be classified as
larger than forays on a major scale. Everywhere, too,
the techniques of Korea are visible. The invading
troops in Laos are “volunteers,” like the invading
Chinese in Korea, and there is no such thing as an
invasion in the Communist world of Indo-China. As
elsewhere the phrase is “liberation movement.”
The scheme seems generally to be to maintain a
state of chaos throughout the area, to prevent those
in legal government from governing effectively with
a view to bringing about a collapse. During this
collapse, in accordance with Moscow technique, the
“dictatorship of the proletariat” will take over, in
Indo-Chinese States, in Siam and in Burma. This will
be done apparently on local initiative so as not to
court any interference from the outside; or at least
to make it appear to ignorant Asians that any attack
from without to preserve the status quo is an act of
“imperialist aggression.”
In other words, the Communists are going as far
as they believe they can in half-cold, half-hot war;
but not so far as to bring about World War 111, which
must inevitably develop if it became necessary to pro-
duce a major defence of the Asian rice-bowl and the
approaches to India. They are at an advantage in
this technique because they know they can go a very
long way with India, whose new Government has
more confidence in Peking’s peaceful intentions and
pretensions to independence of Russian control than
most other countries have. They also know the
instability of the French hold on the Indo-Chinese
States and the chaotic condition of government and
authority in Burma and Indonesia, not to mention
some parts of Malaya.
The point seems bound to come at which they
must overreach themselves and prove to the world,
as they did in Korea, that this is not a local fight but
one to which the Russians and Chinese at a pinch
are prepared to devote great resources and manpower
—a conflict in which Australia would be bound to
contribute on a considerable scale for its own safety.
Displaying the same tactics as in Korea, the Com-
munists have begun to withdraw from their deepest
points of penetration in Laos, Indo-China, without
making any attempt to fight the seemingly inferior
French forces. They didn’t withdraw until they had
set the world by the ears and jogged the United States
and the British Commonwealth (including Australia)
into adopting an attitude of warning that Siam must
not be invaded and preparing to send arms and. help
to the French on a substantial scale.
It must be evident to the Communists that any
thrust into Siam would lead to the same military
results as the thrust into South Korea. Threats to
Siam, the adjacent approaches into Burma and Cam-
bodia and southern French Indo-China are threats to
the rice-bowl of Asia, which provides the surplus of
food enabling most Eastern countries to survive. Any
single Power holding the bowl —though no single
Power does at present —could starve Eastern Asia at
will and blackmail wherever it appeared necessary.
Also, continuation of the advance through Laos south-
ward would inevitably threaten Malaya and India.
As in the case of the Japanese invasion, the road to
these countries lies through Indo-China.
It is too early to estimate the full purpose of the
drive. That it was begun as part of a Cominform
plan is made clear by the matter appearing in advance
in official organs in Europe and by the fact that a
Viet-minh “peace conference” at some unnamed spot
preceded it. At the same time it has been made so late
in the season that it could not have been designed at
this stage to do more than explore routes or gain
communication-lines for future use when the rains are
over. They are due to start within a few days. Pos-
sibly a main campaign is planned for the autumn
after the wet and the rice-harvest.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Salaries and Savings
More and more salaried men are finding
home-owning almost an impossibility.
Whereas a family man on £l2 a week
was quite often able, in the 1930’5, to
buy a very comfortable suburban, brick
cottage for £l2OO, even if he had to
borrow part of the purchase-money,
today the same man on £2O or £24 a
week is finding it infinitely more difficult
to put up a reasonable equity to gain
ultimate ownership of a £4OOO dwelling.
And what he is offered at that figure is
no better than what £l2OO would have
bought for him in 1937.
Whilst salaried men have generally
received basic-wage increases, rarely have
they maintained the margins in excess
of the basic wage which they were getting
in 1938. At that time a man on £l2
a week was receiving three times the
basic wage. Today a man on £24 (in
Sydney) is getting less than twice the
current basic wage.
It has not been the policy of the
Arbitration Courts to maintain the pur-
chasing-power of marginal rates. Nor
have the unions been particularly press-
ing in their support for margins. Union-
leaders have been more interested in
the demands of unskilled labor, which
makes up the greater part of union
membership and provides the bulk of
union funds.
Statisticians’ figures show that the
“real” wages of minimum-wage-earners
have increased since 1939. Though no
specific figures are available as regards
skilled workers, it is very obvious that
the real remuneration of salary-earners
has fallen considerably. And that is
without taking increased income taxes
paid into account. In the same box
with the salary-earner is the investor.
Commonwealth Bank statistics reveal
that the average rate of dividend from
Stock Exchange investments has in-
creased only fractionally since 1939,
whereas the cost of living has multiplied
almost three times. Investors own in-
dustry, and as the owners of industry
they are often worse off, comparative to
pre-war years, than salary-earners, who
are worse off comparatively than wage-
earners.
Because of the 40-hour week and a
slower rate of production per man-hour
the average output per man per week
has fallen in most industries. This in
spite of “full employment.” The wage-
earner has more than maintained his
position so far as his capacity to buy
out of the reduced pool of production
is concerned, so that there is less of the
stuff that goes to make up real living
standards left over for the salary-earner
and the investor.
The salary-earner and the investor,
too, pay a higher rate of income tax, as
a rule, and in the redistribution of tax-
levies which takes place in the form of
“social security” the wage-earner is
again the gainer, the salary-earner and
investor the losers.
There is more to this “new order” in
our economic and political set-up than
just the inequity of it. The lower out-
put per head of the working population
creates a problem in itself. But the in-
creased buying-power and consumer
potential of the wage-earning masses
means that a larger proportion than
hitherto of our production is consumed
immediately, and less is left to create the
basis of savings, private capital and public
investment.
Without the help of fantastically high
wool prices (such as we saw in February,
1951), Australia, in present circumstances,
is bound to suffer from capital-starva-
tion. Which means restriction of support
for Stock Exchange securities, less money
for home-purchase and the real-estate
market, and poor investment in Govern-
ment loans —and that means fewer public
works. The only cure for the problem
is an increased rate of all-over produc-
tion and the restoration of the economic
position of the Salary-earner and the in-
vestor. There can be no development
of a capital nature —riot even home-
building—without saving and investment.
And those roles traditionally belong to
the middle-classes and the owners of in-
dustry.
Bled White
A striking feature of the results of
Socialist government in Australia was
touched on incidentally by Mr. Fadden
during the Senate campaign.
He pointed out the effects of it in
Queensland, where the taxpayers have
carried £9,000,000 in losses on the various
State enterprises—State stations, mines,
fisheries, timber-yards, butchers’-shops,
meatwoiks, quarries and produce-
agencies. He said that the “extent of
this burden was recently revealed.in the
unbiased report signed unanimously by
the Secretary of the Commonwealth
Treasury and the Under-secretaries of all
the State Treasuries when reporting on
the taxing powers of the States.”
This report showed that in 1938-39
Queensland State taxation was at a
higher rate than the current Common-
wealth rate for combined Commonwealth
and State taxes; and also that Queens-
land had virtually been bled white during
the long period of Socialistic rule forced
on it by gerrymandering methods. De-
spite its great and rich territory of
670,000 square miles, its enterprising
population of 1,200,000 and its gigantic
natural resources, it has a taxable
capacity lower than any other State in
the Commonwealth except Tasmania,
which has an area of 26,000 square miles
and about 300,000 people. 'This is a
reflection of its Socialism and long-
carried burden of taxation producing a
uniformly low level of incomes, which
have bled it white.
It is the product of the type of financ-
ing without regard to production which
Dr. Evatt and Senator Donald Cameron
favor —the kind which Dr. Evatt
approved in 1944, when he told a con-
vention of Douglas Creditors that he
“honored their movement,” whose
doctrines were “once despised but now
accepted as truisms.”
One of the truisms uttered in his
presence was that it “is the sovereign
prerogative of the central Government
to create and not to borrow the money
required for governmental purposes, that
national dividends must progressively
supplement and supersede the wage
system, and that profit-control must sup-
plant price-control.”
And this seems quite in line with
Dr. Evatt’s own view expressed to the
meeting that “in future no politician
will ever dare to tell the people that it
is not possible to get the money to do
what they want to do. There certainly
,was no lack of money to mobilise our
physical strength against our external
enemy.” He forgot to say that this
money was obtained by severely deplet-
ing or mortgaging 1 our resources and by
levying income tax which took £53 13s.
from a man with a wife and child getting
£4OO a year, £293 from a man if he got
£lOOO a year, apart from indirect taxa-
tion and future commitments.
Gambolling on the Cliff Edge
While Australians are being told that the
most important issues in their lives are
full employment—“through expansion
of industries under ‘Labor’s’ progressive
policy”—substantial reduction of taxa-
tion and the maintenance of the right to
loaf, the world seethes. “More Shots in
Jerusalem.” .“More Bandits Destroyed in
Malaya.” “Advance of Communists in
Laos.” “New Australian Casualty-list in
Korea.” “Wounded Prisoners-of-war
Home.” “Egypt and Military Training.”
“France’s Deficit Reaches Limit of Toler-
ance.” “Orders Placed for 550 British
Jet-fighters.” “Purges in the Baltic
-States.” “Six Jordanians Killed by
Israeli Snipers,” These are a few snatches
from overseas news during the past few
days.
The European papers are full of the
latest Atlantic defence developments, the
discussions ranging round M. Bidault’s
sad axiom that “peace does not consist
in closing-down one theatre of war and
opening another,” and his pithy summary
of the world situation that, “never more
certainly than today, the arms race is a
race to death.”
Within the past few days French
statesmen were openly yearning for a
united Germany —the traditional enemy.
The Luftwaffe came back into existence.
It is to have a basic strength of 1326
aircraft, 20 wings and 80,000 officers and
men with the full approval of the whole
of Western Europe. It will be headed by
Colonel Heuser, Chief-of-Staff to the
Reich’s Fourth Air Force at the end of
the war, with Colonel von Maltzahn,
Kesselring’s air-commander in Italy, in
charge of personnel.
Nato is spending £686 million sterling
for basic installations to be completed by
1956 under present programmes, the U.S.
to provide two-fifths of the cost, Britain
one-ninth and France one-seventh.
Already authority has been given for the
construction of 124 airfields, of which
80 are in being—this programme apart
from 34 planned in West Germany, of
which 28 are completed. About 2000
miles of fuel pipe-line are under con-
struction.
This is but part of the effort. Indeed,
the whole programme, including defence
of countries, is so great, the
need to have populations at call in emerg-
ency so marked, that as far back as 1951
General Eisenhower, inaugurating it at
the Nato conference in Rome, empha-
sised that, it must be carefully organised,
as otherwise it might “destroy the Western
way of life from within.”
Mr. Dulles a few days ago gave the
record of “end items” delivered by the
U.S. in terms of dollars, as: 1951,
$9OO million ; 1952, $lllO million ; 1953,
$3OOO million. And in 1954 it will be
$3600 million, if Congress approves. The
totals are going on for $9OOO million.
And the total contemplated cost of the
whole defence programme for the
Atlantic before 1956 runs into an
astronomical sum, including the expendi-
tures of individual countries.
Meanwhile Australia dreams happily
on among her local problems —what will
win on Saturday, whether something
can’t be squeezed off taxation by political
pressure.
»r-
Feelthy Pictures
In using photographs of their opponents
political parties naturally do not choose
prints which flatter their subject; but
the two alleged likenesses of Menzies
and Fadden which the “Labor” publicity
boys used in their newspaper advertise-
ments must have taken some finding.
That of the P.M. depicted a lean and
hungry-looking Menzies rubbing his
hands like Uriah Keep and smiling like
a melodrama landlord about to evict a
tenant. Sir Artie was shown coatless
and with collarless shirt open at the
neck in best proletarian fashion, stud
hanging from one stud-hole, and with a
general appearance of having lost his
razor iseveral days before the photo-
grapher caught him. R. G. Casey’s
comment on this was that it was “pretty
dirty,” but apparently he was inferring
not to the photo but to “Labor’s” tactics
in using it.
“Dirty” as applied to photographs
generally denotes the feelthy postcards
sold at Port Said and Marseilles, so it
is only fair to say that the Fadden photo
was not in that class. Assuming that
the camera studies really did represent
the two leaders they purported to, their
use was, by electioneering standards,
clean fun—or, at the worst, only moder-
ately grubby.
As to “Labor’s” own leader —the Doc.
must have wondered, on looking at his
portrait in the “A.L.P. News,” whether
his campaign directors were for him or
against him. It showed an Evatt about
three stone heavier than Bert’s current
fighting-weight and looking for all the
world like a cartoonist’s conception of a
bloated capitalist.
Customs change, of course, and maybe
the “News” feels that that is what a
‘•‘Labor” leader should look like these
days.
Those Prefabs
Prefabrication is not a very popular
word in New South Wales “Labor”
circles at the' moment. Poor liaison-work
between Federal and State sections of
the party led to Senator Ashley making
an attack on the Federal Government for
importing prefabs from Britain and the
Continent and not buying them from the
Sydney firm Vandyke Brothers just at
the time when Cahill was cancelling an
order his Housing Minister Clive Evatt
had placed with Vandyke Brothers for
1000 prefabs.
Shortly after putting his foot down
Cahill left for the Coronation, leaving
Deputy-Premier Heffron to look after his
railway deficits, electricity troubles, royal
commissions and, of course, prefabs. It
wasn’t long before the last-named item
bobbed up again—the same old 1000
ordered from the same Vandyke Brothers
by the same Clive Evatt.
Evatt brought up the subject in caucus
last week, having apparently first distri-
buted to members a typescript of what
he intended to say. Briefly his case was
that the Federal Government was trying
to destroy State housing, that Vandykes
had in the past built 2600 homes for the
N. S. Wales Government, and that,
having heard that their next contract was
to be for 10 houses, they had dismissed
400 men. He had “ordered the Housing
Commission to arrange a contract with
the firm for 1000 cottages.”
Acting-Premier Heffron took a dim
view of Clive’s activities in the matter.
He said Evatt had ignored letters sent
him by Premier Cahill and had waited
until the Premier had left for England
before raising the subject in caucus.
Heffron told his Housing Minister:
There is no contract to build 1000 homes.
If you think you can spend £2l million
with Vandyke without evfen calling tenders
you are better than Father Christmas.
The reference to Father Christmas is
not very clear, but there is not much
room for doubt about the general drift
of Helfron’s comment; like Cahill, he is
supporting the Housing Commission on
this question, not the Housing Minister.
On the day after the caucus flurry
Evatt left by sea for a holiday trip to
West Australia ; while away he is to study
Government housing in Melbourne,
Adelaide and Perth. Housing Ministers
in the three States are advised to keep
on the alert. If the visitor runs true to
form he’ll drop enough bricks to solve
all their housing problems,
Australia's Oldest Church
Next Sunday, at Ebenezer, near Windsor
(N.S.W.), the Presbyterian Church of
Australia will commemorate the 150th
anniversary of the first church service
conducted by their denomination in Aus-
tralia, That service was conducted under
a tree on the left bank of the Hawkes-
bury River, about eight miles downstream
from Windsor, by Elder James Mein,
who had arrived in the colony a short
time before with a small party of free
settlers in the ship Coromandel. For a
while after that, services were held in
a wattle-and-daub hut, but in 1809 the
stone church which is still in use today
was built.
The pioneer settlers, who comprised
Anglicans and Methodists as well as
Presbyterians, formed a society which
they named the Portland Head Society
for the Propagation of Christian Know-
ledge and the Instruction of Youth, and,
in furtherance of both these objects, they
opened the newly-raised edifice for use
both as a church and a school.
For some years ministers and laymen
of the three denominations alternated in
the pulpit, but by 1826 the community
had grown sufficiently to support a settled
minister ; the Rev. John McGarvie, D.D.,
was brought out from Scotland as first
occupant of the manse. This building
stood on tfie opposite side of the river,
adjacent to the Pitt Town punt. The
great flood of 1867 submerged it and
in the following year a new manse was
built at Pitt Town, next door to another
old stone church, built in 1861.
Ebenezer church is the oldest church
still standing in Australia, as well as the
first to be erected without Government
assistance. Sunday’s ceremony will in-
clude an open-air service and the dedica-
tion of memorial gates by Moderator-
General Bardon.
Wages in Maoriland
A perennial problem for the Arbitration
Court in New Zealand is how to keep
wages in step with prosperity, which is
governed by external influences that no
one but a prophet could be expected to
foresee, and there are no prophets in
N.Z. today. Twelve months ago the court
figured out that prosperity was as high
as it was likely to go for a few years, and
held a tight rein in adjusting wages. As
it turned out, there was another round of
increases for butter and meat under bulk
contracts with John Bull, and the season
for wool also panned out better than
expected. To make things better still,
seasonal conditions were again favorable
for production. Altogether, incomes of
primary-producers were lifted by many
millions, and outstripped wages based on
estimates which proved to be unduly con-
servative. The slide in real wages which
resulted upset workers’ confidence in the
Arbitration Court and the wage-fixation
system, as has always happened when
the court has miscalculated the trend, and
the Federation of Labor has called lately
for action to redress the balance.
The court’s difficulty is one that is
unavoidable,when prices are on the move,
and Maoriland’s dependence on overseas
markets exposes it to a greater degree
than other countries to the impact of
changes beyond its control. It is the duty
of the court to take into account economic
factors, trends and prospects, in addition
to the cost of living, and the inevitable
tendency is for wages to lag behind in
an upward prosperity cycle, while the
reverse should be the experience in a
downward cycle.
It has always been the aim of the
court to maintain a reasonably sate
margin on the way up to leave room for
industry to carry on when prosperity takes
a downturn. Each year the court has
had to decide how far it could go with-
out overstepping the mark, and, as it
hasn’t the wisdom of a Solomon, it has
been easy to find fault with its general
orders in the light of subsequent events.
The court has been criticised nv
workers’ organisations for its failure to
anticipate prosperity when no one couifl
(i Continued on page 7)


For any electoral comment in this issue
requiring signature, David Adams, of 252
George-street, Sydney, is responsible.
Now, for the first time,
available in
m
the sensational new treatment for relief from
GOUT, RHEUMATISM
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO, FIBROSITIS
Don’t be mistaken! It’s 10
to 1 those pains and aches
in joints and limbs from
which you suffer are due to
a “gouty” condition —the
result of urates forming
through excessive .uric acid
in the bloodstream.
Generally the symptoms are
first noticeable in your hands
and feet or old injuries to
the joints and, for your own
sake, you must not neglect
these warnings. Unless this
condition is cheeked, your
elbows, knees, ankles or other
joints will become swollen
and inflamed, you may suffer
unbearable agony and
eventually become crippled
through Rheumatism or other
more drastic complaints.
Colchisone dissolves and eli-
minates the urates and rids
the blood of uric acid, help-
ing to remove the cause of
your trouble. It brings
positive and lasting relief•
FROM YOUR CHEMIST
BRICE .. 17/6 small
30/- large
( including valuable food
chart)
If you have any difficulty in obtaining supplies, write to the Sole Australian Distributors:
Rickard Medical Products Pty,, Ltd,, 21 Oxford Street , Sydney, N.S.W .
y
be expected to foresee the course of
world prices and export income in the
uncertain conditions of recent years. The
attitude of workers was fairly tolerant
until the latest year, because in earlier
years award-rates were freely supple-
mented by over-rate payments and high
overtime additions to pay-packets, which
helped to keep men happy; but since
the import-boom industry has moderated
its pace. Today it isn’t so easy to earn
i fancy rates, and more workers have fallen
back to award levels, or near them.
This drop in average earnings while
prices have continued to rise has brought
the squeeze which is at the root of the
present feeling of dissatisfaction over last
year’s arbitration decision. Yet the con-
traction in wages is probably less than
in any other country, and there is still
employment for everyone, even if a few
soft spots have developed here and there.
What the Arbitration Court would like is
to establish a steady level of wages and
employment, as a foundation for expand-
ing production, and there can be no
doubt that this would be the strongest
bulwark in case of possible setbacks to
exports in the next year or two.
POLITICAL POINTS
Results predicted when the Senate
polling-date was first announced were
that “Labor” would win N. S. Wales,
Victoria and South Australia, the parties
would break even in Tasmania and
Westralia, leaving Queensland as the
State in which the real fate of the elec-
tion would be determined, with the issue
hanging on the preferences ofifthe Demo-
crats. Before counting ceased on Satur-
day night it was clear that that was how
things had turned out.
On Monday, with about threequarters
of the Queensland votes counted, the
Government held a narrow lead over
“Labor,” but was a shade behind the
combined votes of “Labor” and the
Communist party. It could reasonably
expect to improve on this position as
votes from outlying areas came in, but
not sufficiently to pass the 50 per cent,
necessary for a three-two win without
the distribution of Democratic prefer-
ences. The party percentages at that
stage were: Government, 47.1; “Labor,”
46.2; Communist, 1.2 ; Democrats, 5.5.
If it were just a matter of the real
Democrat votes, there would be no doubt
at all of a Government win. What prob-
ably accounted for Mr. Menzies’s caution
in not immediately claiming a victory
was the knowledge that the Democrats’
position of first on the ballot-paper
meant that a considerable number of
straight-down-the-card votes were in-
cluded in their total; “Labor,” being in
second place, would inherit these in the
split-up. If previous estimates of two
per cent, were correct for this accidental
vote, the result would be touch-and-go
right to the finish.
Still, unofficial opinions of scrutineers
seemed to indicate that the Government
would get sufficient preferences to win
the odd seat in Queensland and thus
hold a majority of two in the new Senate.
In that case the position in the Senate
would be;
Lib.-C.P. “Labor.”
Elected 1951 .. 16 12
Elected 1953 ... 15 17
31 29
• •
Evatt, who impressed his party with
his defeat of Menzies’s Anti-Red refer-
endum after starting the campaign with
the odds heavily against him, at Satur-
day’s Senate election found the situation
reversed. Before Menzies opened his
campaign Liberal-C.P. stocks were at
their lowest; within a month, according
to the remarkably accurate Gallup poll,
the swing away from “Labor” was 3 p.c.
to 4 p.c.
• •
Although “Labor” has in the aggregate
polled a considerable majority of votes.
Government members are quite justified
in claiming that Saturday’s vote indicated
that the trend away from the Liberal-
Country-party coalition has been arrested.
“Labor’s” hysterical tale of depression
and unemployment has obviously begun
to wear a little thin in the face of con-
tinued improvement in employment
figures and a condition approaching
stability in prices. The effect of these
factors and the certainty of tax-reduc-
tions in the next Budget will mean that
Evatt and Co. will have to find another
story. That won’t be so easy; they have
staked so much on the one that has just
failed them.
• •
Acting-Premier Galvin says that in
putting the case for Victoria at the next
Loan Council meeting he will not in-
dulge in fantasy, but will base his sub-
missions on sound fact. It’s to be hoped
he’s as good as his word. The trouble
is that in the last few years some of the
Premiers’ views on what constitutes
sound fact have been quite fantastic.
• •
There are still some men in public
life who aren’t out for all they can get.
When, at a Municipal Association meet-
ing in Melbourne someone moved that
free tram passes should be sought for all
councillors, only the mover and- seconder
voted for the proposal.
• •
When in office, Dr. Evatt twice tried
by referendum to secure for the Com-
monwealth an extension of its industrial
powers. His argument was that without
it a Federal Government had no hope of
dealing with unemployment ‘in peace-
time. Neither referendum was passed,
THE HIGHWAYMAN
so according to his own argument the
Menzies Government has no constitu-
tional power to deal with unemployment.
Yet for 12 months, and particularly for
the past five weeks, Evatt has done little
but attack the Government for not do-
ing the very thing he made scores of
speeches proclaiming it didn’t have the
power to do.
• •
When the first Senate elections were
held in 1901 there were 977,993 persons
on the rolls; for Saturday’s poll the
number entitled to vote was 5,065,930.
• •
After Menzies and The Bulletin had
reminded electors that eight years ago
Leslie Haylen, “Labor” M.H.R. for
Parkes (N.S.W.), had told Parliament
that a condition where unemployment
was down to five per cent, could be
regarded as full employment, Les seemed
to disappear from his Sydney haunts. He
turned up in Tasmania, heavily dis-
guised. At least, that is the only con-
clusion to be drawn from a photograph
published in a Hobart “Mercury”
advertisement announcing three meetings
to be addressed by him. The picture
bears a striking resemblance to “Labor”
Senate candidate Murray, who is as much
like Haylen as Bert Evatt is like Abraham
Lincoln.
Not that the latter comparison would
seem ridiculous to everyone. A Mel-
bourne “Age” correspondent claims that
“many who knew the late Billy Hughes
in his prime see a not dissimilar person-
ality emerging in this bustling Labor
leader.” Who the blithering blazes told
the reporter that?
• •
Eddie Ward told an Ipswich (Q.) audi-
ence that Queensland had not yet felt
the full impact of unemployment. Quite
right, but Queensland and all other
States will feel it all right if the Ward-
Evatt-Garden brand of economics gets
control of the Federal Treasury.
• •
The eleventh edition of the Common-
wealth Parliamentary Handbook con-
tains portraits and political biographies
of all members of the 18th, 19th and
20th Parliaments, voting statistics for all
Federal elections, by-elections and refer-
endums since 1945, also details of
Ministries, Speakers, Presidents of the
Senate and Chairmen of Committees.
Changes in electoral procedure since the
previous edition are dealt with by a
brief note explaining the p.-r. system of
counting Senate votes and by the in-
clusion of maps showing the boundaries
of divisions for the House of Represen-
tatives under the 1948 redistribution.
• •
Menzies on the Evatt-Calwell rivalry:
They can agree on only one thing —that
I should go. I hope, if Igo out, the door
will be wide enough to accommodate both
of them, because they’ll be both trying to
go in at the same time.
• •
There have been complaints from
some Federal “Labor” men of lack of
support from “Labor” Premiers in the
Senate campaign. The grumble goes
like this: “We won their State elections
for them and then they went off to the
Coronation and left all the Senate
electioneering to us.” The Premiers
probably felt that in a show which starred
Bert Evatt and in which even the
Senators had only walk-on parts there
was not likely to be much room for them.
• •
One man who obviously didn’t believe
“Labor’s” claim that it would win four
Senate seats in Tasmania was “Labor
Senator Aylett. Placed No. 4 on the
official party ticket he urged his sup-
porters, from the platform and by Press
advertisements, to give him their No. 1
vote. On Monday he looked certain
to retain his seat. What the party will
have to say about it remains to be seen.
• •
Those who complained that the Senate
voting-papers were ' unwieldy should
thank their stars they were not voting in
1901. At the first Senate election there
were 50 candidates for the six N. S.
Wales Senate seats.
0 •
Until the Senate campaign ' began
Eddie Ward held the Australian record
for making a little speech go a long way ;
some M.H.R.s have heard his depression
tirade so often that they know it well
enough to prompt him when he stumbles
over a word. But Evatt is the new
champion. He made a policy speech at
Marrickville Town Hall on April 7 and
in the five weeks that followed he re-
peated it phrase by phrase at scores of
meetings in six States. Despite his
strained larynx the Doc. was prob-
ably quite regretful when the campaign
ended; he must have become quite
attached to that little speech. But it is
most improbable that he believed it.
1 •
Broken Hill, which a months ago
looked almost like seceding from N. S.
Wales over what it considered undue
interference with its drinking habits, is
lodging another complaint against gov-
ernment from Sydney. A Safer and
Better Roads Committee is so fed up
with the condition of roads in the district
that it advocates (1) that motorists who
incur repair-bills through damage that
can be attributed to bad roads should
send their bills to the Main Roads
Department, (2) that ways should be
considered whereby the Barrier could be
tacked on to South Australia. The argu-
ment advanced is that all road-taxes in
South Australia are put back into road-
construction, whereas Sydney treats
Broken Hill as a forgotten city.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Nunk”: Our tobacconist has cut out
smoking.
S’ S* S’
“Bert”: The old chap sitting next
to me on the train never let up once he
started talking. Things weren’t what they
used to be ; the city had grown out of
all proportion and old landmarks were
fast disappearing. “Do you remember,”
he asked, “the old Hip. where Wirth’s
Circus used to be? And Her Majesty’s
i Theatre where Woolworth’s is now?
There’s nothing to come up to them these
days!” At this stage the train pulled
out of Central, rattled over Eddy-avenue
and ran down towards the Underground.
“And the Tivoli,” he went on, “many a
bright show I saw there.” And as the
train passed the building which in-
herited the name he pointed an accusing
finger out the window growling: “And
look at it now—bloody Shakspeare!”
❖ ❖ *
“Archaen”; Some people will believe
anything. In a lecture to adults I tried
to drive home a point by saying: “In that
concise and authoritative handbook, The
Burglar’s Guide, you will find, under the
heading ‘Advice to Beginners,’ a strong
recommendation never to start breaking
open the front door until you have been
around the back to see if the kitchen-
window has been left unlatched.” A few
days later a librarian informed me that
no fewer than four sober and respectable
citizens had called to borrow the book I
had mentioned. Since then I’ve been
more cautious when trying to be funny.
❖ ❖ ❖
“X.M.N.”: We went straight from
Melbourne to Stanley (Tas.) the day after
I’d joined the ship. When the mail came
aboard there I used the crew-list to sort
out the letters into > the various depart-
ments. Couldn’t find an owner for one
letter. The name didn’t appear on the
list, nor was it on the ship’s articles,
which had been running for almost five
months. The letter had come from a
lass in Brisbane ; her name and address
were on the back of the envelope. I
wrote a memo saying that we had no
one on the ship of the name her letter
was addressed to, nor had there been
any such name among the crew during
the currency of the articles. Enclosing
her letter, I posted the lot back to her.
Later that day the donkey man came along
asking for mail. He gave the name that
was on the envelope, though it was cer-
tainly not the monicker he was sailing
under. During the afternoon I was given
three or four other aliases from other
members of the crew. I never heard how
the donkeyman explained why his letter
had been returned, but I was very careful
about unclaimed mail after that.
S’ S* S’
“P.0.M.C.”; A smallgoods-manufac-
turing firm has sent a generous and sur-
prisingly-assorted parcel of its wares to
a Sydney wit in recognition of this slogan
touching one of its lines: “A hot dog
is the only dog which feeds the hand that
bites it.”
❖ ❖ S’
“X.S.”: Victorian bushfire authorities
have once more declared the fire risk
“Better hurry and make your choice—you can't have two."
over for the season without a major con-
flagration, so that the remarkable result
has been achieved of a fire equipment
said to be second to none in the world
having been built up and never tested.
The last big bushfires occurred in 1944
when the metropolis was ringed with fire
and hundreds of suburban houses were
burnt down. A householder at Beau-
maris caught and cleaned 15 snapper
just before the suburb was gutted, and
they were cooked in the same way
Charles Lamb’s Chinaman cooked his
pig-
s’ *x* *i*
“Threewheeler”: “Findy’s” super-sales-
man with faith in his product (B. 8/4/’53)
must be working out our way now. He’s
in a bike-shop, selling secondhand grids.
Saw him the other day with a deal almost
clinched, when the prospective client
doubted the efficiency of the brake. “That
brake is in excellent shape,” the sales-
man vowed. “Watch this.” So saying he
mounted and accelerated rapidly down
“How do you manage to keep him in? He'd never stay home for me.”
the shop. Luckily the customer knew
some first-aid and quickly patched him
up after we extricated him and the bike
from the show-case.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Stan C.”: My clearest memory of
Anzac Cove (B. 22/4/’53) is the work
done there by the R.N. destroyer we
named “Nursie.” When called on, Nursie
would steam into the Cove, flashes would
wink from her guns and dots of flame
and puffs of smoke and dust would
appear on the Turk lines. Presently there
would be a dull boom from a Turkish
heavy and a big shell would rumble over-
head, a spray fountain would leap close
to Nursie and a few seconds later we
would hear the “Plock!” of the burst.
The destroyer’s guns would go on wink-
ing. Another boom from inland and a
second shell would fall, usually on the
far side of the little vessel. Nursie would
keep on firing; then, just as we would
start to hold our breaths, a surge of foam
would boil up under her stern and away
she’d scoot, with the third shell often
falling where she had been a few seconds
previously. Our pessimists used to say
that one day the Turkish artillery spotter
would wake up and lob that third shell
where Nursie was going to be by the
time it arrived, but he never did. When-
ever our own heads were guilty of what
we used to call a “gawk” act, I used to
console myself with the reflection that
there were even bigger goats on the other
side of No-man’s Land.
♦> *z*
“Eureka”: Sydney papers stated that
Jeff James was buried at South Head
cemetery, “as near as possible to the
graves of Henry Lawson and H. E.
Boote.” This gives the impression that
Henry Lawson was buried in South Head
cemetery; his actual resting-place is in
Waverley cemetery. I once read that
Lawson was buried in a grave which had
originally contained the remains of
Henry Kendall, which had been moved
to another site in the same cemetery.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Farmacist”: As a chemist I am
accustomed to having to knock back
types trying to buy pherfbbarbs without
a prescription. Less frequently I en-
counter a morphine-addict and, on rarer
occasions still, the cove with an urgent
longing for cocaine. But with the com-
ing of New Australians I have discovered
another nuisance—the gentleman who is
keenly interested in ethyl alcohol. Re-
cently an alcohol-customer used a black-
mailing method. He produced a list of
things he wanted. The goods were duly
assembled, wrapped into a parcel and
their value worked out. The customer
produced the money and held it just
out of reach. He eyed me calculatingly.
“I would like,” he said, “that you also
sell me spirit to make the liqueur.” “I’m
sorry,” I said. “Selling spirit without a
doctor’s prescription is an offence.” The
customer shrugged his shoulders. “So,”
he said, “you will not sell?” “No.”
“All right. Then you can keep these,
other things which I buy.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jurumudi”: I see that a grave inter-
national crisis was averted when officials
on the Queen Mary hastily substituted
one pewter mug for another as the prize
in a tabl|-tennis tournament won by
Crown Prince Akihito. The rejected
tankard had a design depicting' a gentle-
man dangling from the gallows, with
the inscription “The Last Drop,” and
it was feared that this brand of humor
might be misinterpreted by the Royal
sportsman. It recalls the occasion at
a Naval reception when a friend of mine
hummed to the English band a tune he
had been told was the Japanese National
Anthem. When the Nipponese admiral
and his officers appeared the band lustily
struck up their newly-acquired piece. It
was “Jon Kina,” a folksong of the
yoshiwara.
+♦♦ ♦> <♦
“Rag”: Frank Lloyd Wright (B.
15/3/’53), the American architect who
has divided his world-wide colleagues
into worshippers or scornful critics, has
had his name joined with another con-
temporary, also a pioneer, the French
architect M. le Corbusier. The fury of
sustained controversy has swept over Le
Corbusier’s work to an even greater
degree than over that of Wright, but both
have received a British distinction
awarded to no other foreign architect.
This is the Gold Medal of the Royal
Institute of British Architects. Wright
received his in 1941; Le Corbusier has
just recently been honored. It was Le
Corbusier’s revolt against sprawling
suburbia in favor of planned cities of tall
buildings standing amid spacious public
parks which brought him into promin-
ence. His famous Cite Radieuse at Mar-
seilles, known as a vertical community
because practically every human need is
catered for within its high, enormous
enclosed area, brought him a French
Government honor and a lawsuit started
by enraged local opinion. His other
great contribution was the development
of factory-produced buildings using steel,
concrete and glass and with flat roofs
with gardens upon them. At the moment
Le Corbusier is in East Punjab applying
his geometric notions to the layout of
a new capital city.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Traralgon”: That grand old trouper
Dolly Harmer, referred to in Rose
Lindsay’s memoirs (B. 18/3/’53), is still
appearing on variety circuits in England,
or was until about eighteen months ago,
when I saw her at the Empire Theatre,
Nottingham. Since 1917 she has been
associated with Wee Georgie Wood in
the sketches that made them famous. I
met these two old-timers in their dressing-
rooms —still enthusiastic and hard-work-
ing artists. The cast of the show “Do
You Remember?” was composed mostly
of vintage actors and actresses, including
Hetty King, George Robey, and Scott
Sanders —from the last-named came a
most exquisitely funny string of com-
ments on topical affairs.
TAXI-SERENADE
“Taxi-drivers resent N. S. Wales Govern-
ment’s decision to raise flagfall to Is. 6d. and
enforce the rule against multiple-hiring, regard-
ing these as measures to reduce taxi-competition
with» Sydney’s inefficient trams.”
“All right; hop in, Jack. It’s one-and-a-
zack
' As soon as you open the door.
I’m sorry the charge is so damn’ large,
But I didn’t make the lor .
“The Government hams can’t manage
the trams
And don’t know how to compete;
All *hey contrive to know how to drive
Is taxis—off the street.
“Yes, Mum, I go there; but you see
I’ve a fare . . .
Well, Mum, if the gent, don’t mind . . .
The shiela as well, and her friend?
That’s swell.
Yes, Miss, I could get there blind.
“It’s the Government heels in their
automobiles;
This Minister, Martin, is one —
He don’t like to see such as you, such
as me
Getting round in a car ori our own.
“Well, here you are, Miss. Six shillings,
it is .. .
It’s the ’ Flag fall —what did you ex-
pect ?■..-.
Pick ’em up in the rain, and still they
complain!
Correct fare, she give me — Correct!
“It’s the little bloke pays, I assure you,
these days ...
Stop here, sir? Now you’re all set.
Let’s see . . . Eh? That’s right? Well,
thank you. Goodnight.
It’s little enough I get.
“Yes, working it out, the public’s the
goat : —
It’s the boys up above and inside—
Give them a break, and they’ll be on the
make.
Taking you for a ride.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Beachy”: At a Hobart reception given
to one of the visiting Turkish officers a
Digger expressed on behalf of his A.I.F.
comrades their great pleasure in having
a representative of the Turkish Brigade
from Korea at the Anzac Day celebra-
tions. He assured him of a very friendly
welcome and went on: “But no matter
how warm our greetings, they could never
compare with the reception which Turkish
fathers and grandfathers of the present
generation gave to the Australians on
the beaches of Gallipoli, one day in April,
thirty-eight years ago!”
♦♦♦
“Toby”; A mob of the boys were
having a few spots after hours in one
of our local hotels, when the Law walked
in. There was a mad rush for cover and
escape, the favorite exit being any handy
window. One customer leaving via the
window landed heavily and stunned him-
self for a moment. When he came to he
realised that there was something he’d
started out to do. The sight of the open
window jogged his memory a little, so he
took a header right back into the pub
again. He’ll be appearing with the others
who didn’t get away.
♦♦♦ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Bo”; A beautiful case of long ex-
posure to the sun or something, he
woozed away from the tan shoe-
polishing machine at Sydney’s Wynyard
station to gaze up blearily at the destina-
tion-signs. Then he seemed to remember
something, and, staggering back, inserted
his other shoe in the black machine and
managed to get a coin in the slot. The
automatic menial having finished its task
he withdrew his foot, and for a time
bent an owlish gaze on the piebald
trilbies. Puzzlement was at first regis-
tered on his features; then a look of deep
resignation. He tottered over to the
barrier attendant and pointed down to
his shoes. “Thash the short o’ uselesh
mishesh I got,” he confided. “Lesh me
go out wearin’ one black-un an’ one
brown!”
*l* ❖ ❖
“Melbn”: A quaint situation has been
reached in connection with that salu-
brious waterway the Yarra. The no-
man’s-land between Princes Bridge and
Spencer-street Bridge is silting-up, and
the Harbor Trust can’t do anything about
it because the bridges have been built
so low that its dredges can’t get under-
neath them. Perhaps, as a result of the
conflict between the various departments
which “control” the stream, the citizens
of Melbourne may yet get the car park
they so badly need.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ <♦
“Dipso”; Like “No Sirrah’s” medico
(B. 29/4/’53), I have been wronged.
Every bloke in the town had tried to
keep company with the blonde, and the
main reason for my ultimate success was
my then total abstinence. Then came
my downfall. I was working back one
Saturday when the boss got me to call
at the pub for the Randwick results.
Concentration on my pencilled notes on
the way out contributed to my falling
through the pub’s swing-doors to sprawl
at the blonde’s feet. Her immediate
change of boy-friend was the start of my
drinking career.
“Sackville”: An alleged friend of mine
once shoved a paper and pencil in my
hand and shot at me: “A man owned
four houses alongside one another, like
that. He wanted to connect electricity,
water, gas and phone to them all, but he
wasn’t allowed to cross one service with
another. How did he do it?” I was
fast approaching the batty stage when
another mate dropped in. “Well,” he
drawled, “you might be able to work it
out, but nobody in Changi succeeded—
and we were wrestling with it for three
years or more!” At about that time I
was busy levelling-off the miniature range
of earth which the Water Board had
left along the footpath in front of my
place. Just as I’d got a lawn going in
front of the fence the gas-men reefed
it up to lay their mains along the path.
Eighteen months passed, then the advent
of the sewer ruined things again. And
last week the P.M.G. put their under-
ground cables along that same strip of
path. Obviously, some big-bug who
couldn’t nut the puzzle out in theory is
trying to wrangle it out in practice.
“Molgh Cannas”: H. A. Lindsay (B.
1/4/’53) mentioned pottery styles as
being now “an unerring index,” and he
stated that Heyerdahl found no pottery
specimens to support his theory of the
American origin of the Polynesians. Soon
after this, a Press report of Heyerdahl’s
more recent activities quoted him as say-
ing that he had now found pottery and
other relics which gave much weight to
his theory. What now?
❖ ❖
“J.T.”: Next time a friend recom-
mends a detective story, ask him, “Is
Lewis Carroll’s Alice quoted in it?”
Every good writer of whodunits refers
at least once in his career to “Alice,”
and, conversely, every mystery which
mentions “Alice” is worth reading. The
amount quoted varies from a phrase to
a paragraph, or in some cases, even
“You'd think for two hundred guineas she'd have some clothes on."
more; some parts of Dorothy L. Sayers
are almost pure “Alice.” A reason for
Alice’s continual appearance in detective
stories is easy enough to find. Detective
stories depend on logic. This dependence
engenders unconscious rebellion against
logic, a desire to escape into its oppo-
site, fantasy. Carroll himself would
have written excellent whodunits.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ *
“Kelms”: In the days when I held at
least one of the qualifications which an
employer had in mind when he advertised
for a keen, intelligent young man, I
toyed with the idea of taking up a couple
of thousand acres of virgin country in
the Westralian wheatbelt. I thought, and
the cocky for whom I toiled agreed with
me, that all a young man needed was
health, strength, and a -willingness to
slave for a few years without recompense,
The depression, and then War II inter-
fered; and it seems that in the mean-
time qualifications have changed. Now
an estate-agent can advertise, as “an
opportunity for a young man starting
farming,” a 3000-acre property complete
“Please direct me to the magic-carpet department."
with all the fixings. All the young man
has to find is the £6OOO deposit.
❖ *> ❖
“Uco”: One more misleading title.
The book the flapper picked up from the,
counter at the secondhand-shop
was titled Fun to Hug. It wasn’t till she
got home that she discovered it was
volume four of a popular encyclopedia.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Pip Tok”: From Oklahoma (U.S.A.)
comes the story of a convicted man who
refused to avail himself of the suspended
sentence he was offered, preferring to do
fiVe years with his accomplice, “whose
friendship he prized more than freedom.”
The Yanks can’t claim a monopoly of
that sort of thing. Just after the
Germans were turfed out of New
Guinea in 1914 r a newly - appointed
Australian district-officer, when taking
stock of his prison compound, was
puzzled because he had fifteen more
native prisoners than he could account
for. One of his police-boys explained.
The prisoners had been employed on
making a road through the territory of
their own tribe, and they were in the
habit of inviting friends and relatives to
come and spend a week or two in quod
with them.
❖ ❖
“NX Mick”: Eighteen years as
advertising-manager has put such a keen
edge on my boss’s reactions that I am
sometimes almost moved to applaud as
I watch him perform tasks such as dis-
lodging, in a considerate manner, para-
sites of his fraternity. Still, I thought
his reputation for always giving genuine
consideration was ruined the other day
when the latest space-salesman unex-
pectedly re-entered his room 20 seconds
after leaving, and 15 seconds after his
“dummy,” his space-rates card, circula-
tion-analysis and telephone number had
been consigned to the w.p.b. But the
boss wasn’t beaten. As he rose to greet
the bloke again his elbow “accidentally”
swept two correspondence files from desk
top to w.p.b. His portrayal of dismay
at his own clumsiness merited an
Academy Award.
♦> ❖ ♦♦♦
“Muskeen”: Buckwheat cakes (B.
22/4/’53) are griddle cakes under an-
other name Saracens are supposed to
have introduced this grain to Europe via
Spain, and its seed was so much like the
nuts of the beech-tree that the English
christened it beech-wheat —hence buck-
wheat.
K* ❖ ❖
“Kingsbro”: From the recent Paris
six-day bike-race comes news of a
bicycle’s faulty part being detected by
one who never saw the machine. For
two years, Melbourne’s thrice-world-
champion Sid Patterson, the most versa-
tile track-cyclist in the world, had sought
an explanation for the leg-pains which
caused his comparatively poor showings
in “Sixes,” “Check your right pedal-
crank” advised a French masseur who
examined the exhausted Sid on the last
day. And a scientific test disclosed that
the crank was bent, but so little as to
have no effect in normal types of races
or to be noticed by those assembling the
machine,
* *X* *X*
“R.G.R.”: Music and the movies?
My award for the most appropriate
theme-song goes to the piece used in
“The Man from Montana.” A cowboy
visits ’Frisco and amasses a huge fortune
in one night, on the roulette-wheels in
the honky-tonks. He breaks the bank
several times at several dives, getting
quite blotto in the process. Thus handi-
capped, he gets into a crooked card game
and loses the lot. After a fadeout we see
him in the throes of the father of all
hangovers. But it is left to the back-
ground music to tell us that the loss of
all those dollars is also very much on
his mind, for during this scene the studio
orchestra obliges ( pianissimo ) with “I
dreamt that I dwelt in marble halls.”
♦♦♦ ♦!+
“T 2”: While counting the contents of
a money-box I spotted a dud two-bob.
The coin-tester confirmed my opinion
and snapped the coin into two pieces
which I handed back to the depositor.
She was irate; I had robbed her of two
shillings, she said. Her complaints took
me back almost 30 a day when
I was running messages for Mum. I
was sent back to the grocer to tell him
that he had given me a dud coin in the
change. “Tell your mum,” he said, “that
she can spend it with me next time she’s
'in the shop, and later on I’ll give it back
to her in change. I’ll always take it
from her, if she’ll always take it from
me. That way neither of us will lose
by it”
QUITE SIMPLE
“Better the patient who tells you bluntly that
he ‘feels lousy when he wakes of a morning
than the one who tries to make a pseudo-
technical self-diagnosis.” —Medical article.
Should you feel that you’re in need
Of a thorough overhaul,
And consequently call on your
physician,
Don’t immediately proceed
On your liver, lights or gall
To launch into a lengthy disquisition.
You may know that it’s a gland
That is causing you distress;
Quite unmistakable, to you, its warn-
ings.
But your trouble, understand,
He’ll with greater ease assess
If you just say you feel lousy in the
mornings.
You may know as much as he.
After all, he must admit
That he only put in six years at the
Uni.,
Ev’n his locum-tenancy
(As it were) would scarcely fit
Him to say if you were strong or
rather puny.
Yet it’s well to humor him
This you very easily can.
Not by explanations how you’re
dull and drowsy
That just makes the picture dim.
Simply tell him, man tc man,
That on waking of a morning you
feel lousy.
Of necessity, your doc.
Uses terminology
At times of quite a weighty erudition.
Yet you mustn’t get a shock
On discovering that he
Also uses language like a politician.
So he blunt and brisk and bland, 1
Be familiar, forceful, free;
The vernacular , he begs, you'll not
be scorning.
He will clearly understand.
For how often, too, has he.
Like yourself, felt lousy, waking of
a morning.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


"Still keeps going
when the rest
have stopped"
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Long service seems to be habit with
the Weigall family, of Sydney. A. B.
Weigall, still remembered as head of
Sydney Grammar, had 46 years as that.
Son Cecil Edward Weigall has just
stepped down from 31 years as N.S.W.
Solicitor-General. Educated at his
father’s school and Oxford, C.E. was
called to the N.S.W. Bar 57 years' back.
He’s 83.
“Jemac”: Of the main characters
in Australia’s share of the Coral Sea
action, one only is still on deck—cruiser
Australia. Rear-Admiral John Gregory
Grace, then commanding the Australian
Squadron, wearing his flag in the Aus-
tralia, is now retired. Admiral Sir John.
His valiant ship is still, as she was then,
flagship. She turned 25 the other day.
Rear-Admiral H. B. Farncomb, captain
of Australia when she and Hobart turned
back a convoy of Jap transports, is also
retired, though living opposite Garden
Island at Potts P®int, Sydney, still in
visual range of a loose rope’s-end hang-
ing over the side. Captain Harry
Howden, who had Hobart (at the evacua-
tion of Berbera as well as in the Coral
Sea), and who stuck faithfully to the old
winged collar in his dress, has also carried
his oar inland, having been Naval-
Office'r-in-Charge, Fremantle. He lists
his recreation as “fox-hunting.” His
old ship is in mothballs.
Sir Macfarlane Burnet, M.D., Ph.D.,
D.Sc., F.R.S., F.R.A.C.P., of Melbourne,
who knows a virus when he sees one, can
now add four more letters to his alpha-
betical collection —he having just been
made a Fellow of the Royal College of
Physicians,
Germany-bound R.A.F. men flew,
sometimes, on a wing and a prayer.
More often, they flew on wings and the
wind forecast for them by Charles Priest-
ley, who, for the whole of War IJ, was
with the met. office of the British Air
Ministry—for the last years of it 0.-i.-c.
of the special group whose job was to
forecast the strength and direction of
high-altitude air-tides. In 1946 Priestley
joined the C.5.1.R.0., in charge of its
meteorological physics research. Here
his job has been concerned mainly with
the manner in which the atmosphere
transfers from the tropics to the poles,
in the process causing such pleasantries
as anti-cyclones and typhoons. A bril-
liant graduate of Cambridge (Double
First in the Maths. Tripos and the Uni-
versity Prize for applied mathematics),
Priestley has just been awarded his
Doctorate of Science from Cambridge for
his tropics-to-pole research. He labors
at the C.5.1.R.0. lab. at Highett, out of
Melbourne.
“Fitz”: Of all the hundreds who began to
write for The Bulletin in the ’nineties probably
only three —Will Ogilvie, Hugh McCrae and
Will Lawson —are still on deck and writing
for the paper today. Will Ogilvie recently
had a selected edition of his poems published,
Hugh McCrae was' not long ago awarded an
0.8. E., and this evening (Wednesday) at the
Fellowship of Australian Writers’ Clubroom,
Sydney, Will Lawson is to be the guest of
fellow-writers at a function in his honor. When
Lawson blew into Sydney over 50 years ago
to try his luck on the Inky Way The Bulletin
office was farther down George-street nearer
Circular Quay. It was there Will first met the
balladists and story-writers who used to con-
gregate on Friday afternoons to pick up their
cheques from kindly Tom McMahon, the
accountant, and to yarn on the old Bulletin
bench, immortalised in “Red Page” articles by
W. H. East, Hilary Lofting and Harold Mercer.
Will, of course, was then a stripling, writing
ballads and other verse under the nom de plume
of “Quilp N.” It was then a strange and
exciting world. He met Henry Lawson, Ted
Brady, Rod. Quinn, Victor Dqley, Chris
Brennan, Jack Le Gay Brereton and Randolph
Bedford, all of whom were to become his
friends. Will had a letter, treasured by him
for years until a collector confiscated it, from
James Edmond congratulating him on a set of
verses called “Shelling Peas.” Which reminds
me that two other Bulletin poets have written
verses on the same subject—Harry Morant
(“The Breaker”) and C. H. Souter (“Dr. Nil.”).
Once a reader asked for the words for the
Lawson “Shelling Peas” verses and I got it into
my head that C. H. Souter had written them.
Souter wrote back and said that he was not
the author, but that if I wanted one here was
one on the subject. S. H. Prior accepted the
verse, marked it for payment at a guinea, and
Tom McMahon, by some strange freak of
absent-mindedness, sent Souter a cheque for a
thousand guineas. The cheque was sent back,
I might add. At 76 Will Lawson has all the
zest for life, all the energy of his old friend
Percy Lindsay, whom we buried at 82 last year,
and with whom Will and I had often “tired
the sun with talking.” An ardent champion
of the Australian writer, Will richly deserves the
tribute due to him this evening.
Boss of , Malta’s supply-scheme in
1941 (a savage time); boss of the Middle
East Supply Centre in 1942 (a sizeable
task); in personal charge of U.N.R.R.A.’s
operations in Europe in 1945 (likewise);
launcher of Australia’s Department of
National Development in 1950 —these
are some of the bigger organisational
efforts of Victorian-born Commander
Robert Gillman Allen Jackson. Now he
takes his long, elegant frame to Accra,
on the Gold Coast, head of a commis-
sion which is to examine work done on
the important Volta River aluminium-
production scheme. He’ll probably
manage all right.
Apart from their professional com-
petence, one of the remarkable things
about the Stratford players at present
Shakspearing Sydney is the fact that
several of the cast (Australians) were
unknown in their own,, country: they
come home with European reputations.
One of these is Leo McKern, the delight-
ful Touchstone; another is Keith
Michell, bora in Adelaide, at 26 one of
the youngest of the cast, and winner, in
1948, of a scholarship to the Old Vic.
school in London. A bit more than a
fathom of quiet friendliness, almost shy-
ness, off-stage, on the boards Michell
is the hot-blooded, ferociously fanatical
Hotspur of “Henry IV.” Which versa-
tility, no doubt, accounts for the A.B.C.
producer in Adelaide under whonq,
Michell was radioing in 1948 recom-
mending him to Olivier for an audition.
Michell was one of only two Australians
to win the coveted scholarship. An art-
teacher before he took a small part, “for
the fun of it,” he later took on scene-
designing—then London, to work as he’d
never toiled in his life before. Gradu-
HOTSPUR
ated from the Old Vic., he was appointed
automatically to the Young Vic., and
with this company of youngsters toured
Europe, experiencing every type of
theatre-condition. On return, he learned
the Stratford company were after an
Orlando. He got that part, and Hot-
spur’s as well —and a very good Hot-
spur he is.
Caught by Prior at a recent dinner in
Sydney, Sir Stephen Holmes, the new
British High Commissioner, is that sort
of cultured Foreign Officer who looks as
though born to striped trousers and black
Homburg. It’s true enough that the
commissioner has hardly been out of
’em since he left Oxford in 1921. With
his majority, M.C. and a brace of “men-
tions,” won against Wilhelm, Holmes
went straight to the British Colonial
HIGH COMMISSIONER
Office from Oxford, assistant-principal.
Followed a helpful term (for his present
post) as secretary to the Secretary of
State for Dominion Affairs, and return
to the Colonial Office, principal this time.
A visit to West Africa was the start of
diplomatic wanderings which have taken
him just about all over Europe, to Wash-
ington and Canada. Fifty-seven, he was
made K.C.M.G. two years ago.
“Macnell” on a busy captain:
Down off Jervis Bay at the moment —some-
times in the bay—there is a group of 200-odd
men toiling flat-out. They’ve got another week or
so to go, and when their toil is over, the object
of it —newly-commissioned destroyer Tobruk —
should be a fully-qualified unit of the Australian
Fleet. For Tobruk is “working-up.” And
that means (weather permitting) working. Shore-
bombardment, anti-aircraft firings, night-
encounter exercises; depth-charging, stalking
submarines, lowering seaboats, shoring-up
bulkheads; radar-tracking, fire-fighting, signal-
ling—all the thousand and one evolutions
required to turn a loose body of men new to
their ship into a tightly-welded team of auto-
matic efficiency. In charge of all this, earning
his pay and privileges, Commander lan Mc-
Donald, signals-expert and Tobruk’s captain
since only last March. Adelaide-born, launched
1915, he’s served in cruisers, destroyers, and
early in War II was flag-lieutenant to Rear-
Admiral Pridham-Wippell in battleship Malaya.
Later, he went with his admiral to the Queen
Elizabeth (the one with 15-inch guns), and the
Barham. He was at the last-named address
when a German U-boat split her open with
torpedoes in the eastern Mediterranean in
November, 1941,
To an already well-stocked phial of
degrees chemical, R. J. W. Le Fevre
added the other day the H. G. Smith
Memorial Medal for 1952 —granted for
outstanding contribution to chemical
science over the past 10 years. Now
Professor of Chemistry at Sydney Uni-
versity (with, to look at, more of the
polished diplomat about him than
chemistry prof.), Le Fevre was at Uni-
versity College, London, when war sent
him east. He flew out with the sonorous
title of Scientific Adviser to R.A.F.
Headquarters, Far East Command; to
have for his first job the siting of an
Asiatic latrine in Singapore. Subsequent
work was important enough, and took
him to W. Africa, Cairo, India, Burma-
road and Malaya. Before coming to
Sydney six years ago he was in charge
of the chemistry section at Farnborough,
researching into combusion in jet air-
craft. One of the main problems to
which Le Fevre addressed himself post-
war, and which brought him his present
medal, is the nature of the azo-link,
which, unlike its analogue in carbon
chemistry, had remained imperfectly
understood. It is not proposed to make
it understood hefe.
At the same meeting of the N.S.W.
branch of the Royal Australian Chemical
Institute in Sydney, A, D. Buckingham
got his Masson Memorial Scholarship
Medal for 1953. Entering Sydney Univer-
sity on a Liversidge Scholarship, he has
since had a career milestoned by a
succession of bright achievements. From
nine units in the science course he
gained three High Distinctions, four
Distinctions and two Credits, gradu-
ated with first-class honors and the Uni-
versity Gold Medal, A cricket blue who
got his M.Sc. degree on the day of the
above-mentioned meeting, he plans to
go to Cambridge to join the Department
of Theoretical Chemistry.
In his 27 years M. S. Paterson hasn’t
wasted much time. Adelaide University
gave him his B.Sc. before he was 20,
and his B.E. a year later. Research
with the C.5.1.R.0. Division of Aero-
autics gave him considerable know-how
on the fatigue of metals, and, for this
work, his University gave him the Angas
Engineering Scholarship. Research in
the famed Cavendish Laboratory at
Cambridge followed, with award of a
Doctorate of Philosophy—surely, at 23,
making him one of the youngest to
receive that distinction. In 1950, after a
year back in Australia, he was off again,
this time on a fellowship to study metals
at the University of Chicago, Now he’s
landed in Canberra, Senior Research
Fellow at the National University,
In Gerrit Mulder, the National Uni-
versity in Canberra gets for its senior
research Fellow in Far Eastern History
a highly-qualified philologist and
historian in ancient Chinese literature.
Thirty-four, the new man was bora in
Holland, and is a graduate of Leiden
University.
“Cauboy”: Born one year after
Bernard Shaw the creative artist, John
Hewlett Ross, the recreative artist, died
two years after his literary contemporary.
Shaw wrote the spoken word, Ross
studied the spoken word, and it would be
difficult to say which crowded more
activity into his life. Ross left Foots-
cray as a young man to study dramatic
art and elocution in London; for 70
years he taught elocution to tens of thou-
sands of children and adults, lectured in
voice-production, adjudicated in all lead-
ing competitions in Australasia, examined
for the Education Department, and when
broadcasting put its nose in was one of
the first on 3LO and 3AR, advocating
recognition of Australian writers and
poets. His silvery voice and beautiful
diction went well with his handsome face
and white beard. Apart from speaking,
he wrote a biography of A. L. Gordon
and was represented in the first anthology
of Australian poetry published by
Douglas Sladen. Like Shaw, Ross kept
up his enthusiasm to the finish, at 96
at his home at Mentone, Melbourne. A
tolerant man, the most caustic thing I
heard him say was a comment on Aus-
tralian films: “They comb Australia for
talent and end up with the same old lot
of ham actors.”
Into the Silence:
Killed in a car accident at Launceston (Tas.),
Donald Fotheringham Gee, a leading barrister
and sporting identity. President of the Northern
Tasmanian Trotting Association, succeeding his
father in the office, he was chairman or member
of every other trotting club on the island. In
War II he navigated heavy bombers over
Europe.
At 83, in Melbourne, Ernest Holloway Leete,
founder of the wholesale-druggists firm of
Sigma. Born at Kyneton, he first started as a
chemist in Fifzroy.
In Sydney, at 73, Reginald Arthur Marks,
company-director, between 1927-29 president of
the N.S.W. Chamber of Manufactures, and,
for a year after that, president of the Federal
body. In War II he looked after manufac-
turers’ interests with the Commonwealth Prices
Commission. His sister, Gladys Hope Marks,
has been lecturer in French at Sydney Univer-
sity, and, for two terms, acting-Professor in the
subject.


MAY HOLIDAYS


ABORIGINALITIES
“Spermacetty”: Australia’s most pros-
perous whaling-station was at Willunga,
some 35 miles along the coast south from
Adelaide. It also had the distinction of
catching fewer whales than any other
spot. The seeming paradox is easily
explained. Across about 50 miles of sea
lies Kangaroo Island, which has two large
and sheltered bays. Vessels bound for
Port Adelaide or Melbourne would call
in there, unload part of their cargo and
sail on. At the dark of the moon, a
couple of cutters would run across to
Willunga, put the same stuff ashore and
be gone by daylight. Later, drays and
wagons from the Willunga district would
bring loads of roofing slates, split in the
local quarry, wattle-bark for tanning,
sheepskins and other stuff to Adelaide.
They would always arrive at one of the
pubs when it was too late to unload the
stuff that day. After dark, however, rum,
brandy, whisky and tobacco which hadn’t
paid duty would be removed from under
“Put your coat on, Basil, so I can rest my head on your shoulder .”
the load and transferred to the pub-cellar.
The prosperity of the Willunga whalers
underwent a sudden and permanent
decline when inquisitive police-troopers
began to haunt the roads leading to the
capital and started to see what was under-
neath the innocent-looking loads.
**, * *
Chuck”: “Man can handle a horse,
dog, cat or a few cows,” growled Ben,
“but the trouble with sheep is they’re not
“The trouble with you is you're too thin-skinned .”
civilised enough.” His argument rang
in my ears as I turned once more up
the long paddocks of improved pasture.
Every third day for several months I’d
inspected the mobs of sheep in the top-
dressed paddocks, and on every trip I
found some of them fly-struck. I’d
sprayed, crutched, plied the blades and
mixed gallons of fly-dressing, and still
there was no let-up in the attack. The
feed was plentiful. The paddocks had
been resown two years before, and had
been top-dressed heavily every season,
yet despite this some of the sheep looked
miserable. Probably needed another
dose, though Heaven knows I’d dosed
them regularly enotigh. One by the
fence there looked wormy, and another
fly-struck specimen seemed about to give
up. I’d have to haze her along nearer
home. Musing, I reached the far fence
and ran an eye over the slopes of the
back range. Fifteen sheep strung into
view—near-worthless runts that had been
turned out on to the coarse tussocks of
the rough country. Twelve months
they’d been there. Twelve months with-
out a dose, or attention of any kind, and
now, though not fat, they were wiry,
tough and healthy, and not one had been
fly-struck. I turned back to the im-
proved country with a grunt. Ben and
his damnfool argument! Sheep not
civilised enough !
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “Y’ know,” Mat said,
“there’s a lot in that look-before-you-
leap stuff. I always take me time
ever since when I was a little kid. The
town where we lived had a volunteer
fire brigade and there was a reward of
ten-bob for anyone that rung the fire-
bell when a fire started. Gripes, the foot-
races I’ve seen t’ get t’ that bell first,
an’ the fights there used t’ be after-
wards when they got arguin’ about who
rung her first. One night I’m in the
back-yard an’ see a fire start up on a
hill at the other end of the town. I’m
out o’ the barrier an’ on to that bell-
rope before y’ can say Jack Robinson.
Well, about a dozen other kids and
young coots grab the rope, the brigade
turns out an’ away it goes. When it
comes back I’m havin’ a hard time tryin’
t’ prove it was me rung the bell an’
ought f get the ten-bob. But me ol’
man —he could go a bit an’ they knew
it —me of man soon told ’em off an’
convinced the brigade captain who’d
rung the bell first. Then he took me
home an’ belted the soul-case out o’
me.” Mat paused. “He must ha’ bin a
bit cracked,” I said. “Aw, it wasn’t
that,” Mat said. “Y’ see, that fire was
some rubbish on the hill, an’ the old
man was told he’d have t’ pay a quid
fine because I give a false alarm. So
y’ always want t’ take y’r time.”
* * * *
“Horseless H.”: Bantams on a Narra-
coorte (S.A.) property have evolvfed their
own tactics in dealing with snakes.
The owner, attracted by sounds of
disturbance in the fowlyard, saw his birds
spread in a ring around a savage five-
foot tiger with its head erect. As
the snake kept striking at the front con-
tingent they would yield ground, while
the birds on the other side of the circle
would hop on its tail. Another time
two of the heps flew up to the roof-
spouting to worry a longtail there.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: Like a monument to the
pioneer who built his homestead in this
peaceful dip-sheltered from the winds,
but with a delightful view of golden
beach between the rolling hills —the old
chimney still stands, or the biggest part
of it does. Around it paspalum and
lantana are creeping over the old stone
piers and rubble foundation-wall, but
the flight of six steps, leading up to noth-
ing at all, still rises above the wilderness
seeking to smother it. Here and there
charred pieces of timber suggest
that fire, not * time, was the
destroyer—the old bails and sheds
were undoubtedly burnt out.
Lizards shoot across a concrete
floor that was probably the back
porch, and a naturalist would be
sure to find a few snakes if he
turned over the scores of battered
and warped sheets of corrugated-
iron that lie half-smothered in the
undergrowth. But it is the old
double-chimney that attracts me
most —it has also attracted some
trigger-happy shooters, judging by
the bullet-holes in the plastered
breast. On the kitchen side a hook
and an iron bar built in the flue
tell a cosy story of old-fashioned
pots suspended over huge log-fires.
The other side was obviously the
sitting-room. But what’s this —a
terrazzo hearth in those days? No,
by jove, the effect was achieved
by making the concrete with shell-
grit! Yet theory says the salt in
shell grit would cause such con-
crete to disintegrate. And now,
for the first time, I look up. The
chimney-breast has been broken
off about 9ft. from the ground,
and from the pockets on each side of
the flue lantana flourishes. Cut off from
both earth and water—excepting rain—
the shrubs are firmly established, their
branches thicker than a man’s forefinger.
Seeing that flourishing growth makes it
easy to realise how a barren coral island
can become covered with vegetation.
♦ * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Plankton (B.
11/3/’53) was investigated very
thoroughly by the Yanks during the last
war, and they found it able to sustain
life but too thirst-inducing to be of very
much use to castaways. In one test
canapes made of plankton were served
to unsuspecting guests, who voted them
first-class. I presume the experiments
are continuing, and expect to hear soon
that the stuff is becoming a major food
in the U.S. A lot of prejudices will have
to be overcome, however, before it takes
on in Australia. Plankton is a close
relative of the algae that makes some
of our rivers so odoriferous of a summer
evening.
* * * p
“Derf Reltuc”: It’s easy to claim a
sheep-shearing record (B. 6/5/’53), but
it won’t be an authentic one unless it
has been put up on uniform sheep. Pre-
sent figures are always doubtful because
of the variation in sheep-types—long-
wools, short-wools, frizzly- and tightly-
packed wools, etc. This obviously affects
shearing times. Most of the crossbreds
have no facial wool, and almost no wool
on the legs. If a time-record is claimed
for shearing this type of sheep it wouldn’t
be fair to a man barbering the same
number of Merinos, who would prob-
ably equal or better the long-wool man
on the same type of sheep.
* * * ♦
“Old-timer”: The Mallee hamlet
slumbered in the sun as Joe King drove
his big car in and pulled up outside the
store. Nobody was very clear about
what happened after that, but it was
certain that, in response to a telephone-
call from some agitated woman, the
police came over from Wqlpebool. That
was two days after King’s return and
there were some wounded to patch-up
and two or three others to be brought
back from a state of wallowing
alcoholism. Uncertain of origins and
causes, the police charged the lot with
drunkenness and riotous behavior, told
the Bench of damage done and the
sights they’d seen. After a conference
of the defendants, who comprised pretty
well the whole 11 male adult citizens of
the hamlet, they decided to plead guilty
and put King up to explain. “I bin
farmin’ here f’r twenty-three years,” he
told the court. “Last few years the
wheat came good. So me an’ the missus
an’ kids made up our minds we’d go
an’ see the world. Well, y’r Honor, it
was all right till we got down t’ the
city. Everythin’ was fixed up an’ we
was ready t’ go on the boat, an’ right at
the death-knock I find out it’s one of
these flash boats where you have t’ put
on a stiff shirt an’ a swaller-tailed coat
t’ have y’r tea. Well, I jibbed, y’r
Worship. There was a first-class row an’
it ended-up with the missus an’ kids
goin’ an’ me headin’ back here.” King
paused. “But,” asked the Beak, “how
does that account for this charge?”
“Well, it was this way, sir. When I
came through Bendigo on the way home
it suddenly dawned on me that I was
due f’r a bit of a celebration with some
o’ me mates. So I loaded the car up
with bottles, all she could hold, and —
well, that’s about it.” The Beak made
it 10s. each, no order about damages.
DRY WAS THE EARTH
“I think we’ll cop it pretty bad,” said Bill;
“Without some rain the herd will waste until
It’s all uphill.”
I sing a song about this ancient land,
Of treeless rivers trapped ’midst hills of sand
Where dazzling salt-pans trace the once broad
stream,
With mirages—illusive as a dream —
Within its gleam.
Drought pressed the earth, the red sand hissed
and sang
A threnody of death. Brown whirlwinds sprang
As wraiths of wrath into a cloudless sky;
And, looking up, 1 heard the crow’s lone cry,
“It’s dry, it’s dry.”
Dry was the earth, the Lonely Spring went
back;
’Twas music then to hear the steady clack
Of pump-valves working as each windmill’s
stroke
Pumped—as a heart —the cool clear stream that
broke
From earth’s red cloak.
The dry grass withered in that dragon’s breath,
The fight was on us, and we saw grim death
As, armed with axes, we beset our foe,
Lopping off top-feed where the mulgas grow
With mistletoe.
The wiry spinifex died. Gaunt rabbits tore
The bark from foliage bush. And, with a roar,
Death came with dusty breath; and, midst the
wrack.
The hungry cattle died as each attack
Was driven back.
Red dust-fiends came, and in that eerie gloom
Amidst the howling winds —as ghouls of doom —
Fierce dingoes snarled and tore beside a kill,
And out by ghostly gums I heard the shrill
Gorged eagles still.
And then we saw some clouds —I dared not pray,
For fear my prayers would drive such things
away
From this grim place where death and drought
were kin.
Thus, clothed in dust, we watched the rain
sweep in
With thunderous din.
And thus I end my song of this old earth,
Wrapped in its mantle of a new rebirth.
Dark-green its wondrous robe, bright flowers
show
As sparkling gems where silent rivers flow,
And life’s aglow.
Bill’s voice aroused me as I cast a spell
Of magic dreams. “This country looks so well
It just beats hell.”
N.T. ...
W. E. HARNEY.
HI THERE!
Have a care, you, little lizard,
Eating crumbs outside my door!
There’s a witness to your feasting
Whom I’ve not seen here before.
He’s a handsome fellow, really,
But his eyes are fixed on you,
As he perches on the clothes-line
Decked in all his green-shot-blue.
Have a care, you gorging lizard!
Can’t you take a friendly hint?
That’s a kingfisher there poising,
With his eager beak aglint!
I appreciate your fondness
For my crumbs, postprandial,
But if you don’t pull your head in,
Eat them more, you never shall!
N.S.W.
JIM McCARTER.


“NX Mick”: After explaining and
demonstrating the only safe way to use
a circular saw, Foreman Tom told me
to have ago at it. My first shove cut
into both the tifnber and his list of pro-
hibited practices, so he stopped the saw
and started on me. “There’s careless
cows like you at the compo. office every
day with fingers and hands off —sheer
stupidity is the cause of most factory
accidents and” He broke off
abruptly upon noticing that my gaze had
settled on the short stumps of two fingers
he was waving angrily under my nose.
* * * *
“Wingella”: The abo’s acute sense of
humor is always likely to fight
unpredictable. I remember one tribal
affair which occurred some 30 miles west
of the Daly River (NX), and which we
went along to have a look at. In most
of the tribal fights the illy-illy (a play-
about spear of mangrove-wood about
three feet long and about as thick as a
leadpencil) is used. But this fight grew
serious, and some big 10-foot killing-
spears were brought into action. One
abo., bending down to grab at an illy-
illy spear which had landed near him,
was hit by a big killing-spear, which
penetrated a few inches, and remained
stuck in his behind. Uttering ear-pierc-
ing yells, the wounded man started hop-
ping through the bush, the spear still
fast and wobbling. For a second
the crowd of fighters remained still; then
a voice arose: “Him allsame kangaroo,
him allsame kangaroo!” and the next
moment the crowd, which had been full
of blood-lust a second before, became
just a mob of loudly-laughing abos,
imitating the injured man, and gasping
“Him allsame kangaroo! ” The two rival
leaders in the fight were clasped in one
anothers’ arms, helpless with laughter,
tears running down their cheeks. The
wounded man quickly recovered ; but for
weeks afterwards the mere repetition of
the words “Him allsame kangaroo”
would make the camps ring with laughter.
* • , * * *
“Kelms”: The black ducks which
frequented the upper reaches of W.A.’s
Swan River this summer have gone.
They went in a day, and I’m wondering
about the urge that prompted such a
sudden and unanimous mating-drive.
We’d had a heavy rain about a week
previously and the young shoots were
showing, and something either in the
changed weather or in the sight of the
sudden greenness must have stimulated
the action of the ductless glands. One
day the birds came in from the near-by
swamps and congregated on a lonely
stretch of the river. All that day they
spent pairing off, and by nightfall they’d
all gone—in pairs. There was no move-
ment of flocks. This sudden stimulus
of the endocrine machinery is one' of
Nature’s marvels, and it’s not confined
to birds. A few weeks ago that same
stretch of river saw an invasion of
dragonflies. They came in thousands
from the surrounding bush, mated, flying
low over the water, and left as suddenly
as they came. The next day only an
odd pair were seen.
* * * *
“Gravelisnatcher”: Although the
Westralian wild turkey is protected by
law, the dice are loaded heavily against
him. With only the spear-armed abos,
goannas and an occasional dingo in
“You boys mind if my Henry pulls out
while he's in front ?”
mind, Nature reckoned she was doing
the right thing by all concerned in letting
the turkey nest on the ground and limit-
ing its clutch to one egg, with occasion-
ally a pair. And until the' white bloke
brought his guns and his foxes the big
bird held its own so successfully that even
50 yearCago any cocky who wanted to
could put poultry on his menu, and wild
turkey was on sale in most of the
southern cities. But now they’re prac-
tically extinct south of the Murchison,
and although their tenacity is indicated
in a recent report of a pair seen near a
southern township or an odd bird or two
in the wheatbelt, they’re really plentiful
only in the Kimberleys. They’re valued
there, and the value will increase as
rice-growing progresses; but they’ll
continue to be shot by the bloke
whose only interest in the bush is the
occasional free feed he can get out of it,
* * * *
“Lemuel G.”; We’ve heard quite a
bit about the best woods in the bush
for fires; now let me nominate the
worst: the nor’-Westralian corkwood. A
fine, thick, handsome tree it looks, too,
when it’s growing, with smooth grey
bark covered with tiny spines. Dry,
there’s nothing of it; one man can easily
carry a 20ft. log a foot thick. On the fire
the dry, spongy stuff doesn’t even
smoulder, but simply becomes a charred
lump, and it stays that way no matter
how much other good wood is piled
around it. It is just a cussedness of
Nature that such fire-resistant properties
should reside in a timber rendered com-
mercially useless because it lacks grain
and strength. Second-worst —although it
will flame—is dry kurrajong, which
flares up with a wonderful blaze that
seems to possess the absolute minimum
of heat and falls away in no time to a
white powder. As for mulga (B,
15/4/’53), I’ve never yet met a bushman
who’d burn it when he could get a few
lumps of dry box; it’s wood, and that’s
about the best that can be said for it,
* * * ♦
“Bogaduck”: Olaf Ruhen’s article (B.
22/4/’53) jolted my memory back to
North Queensland in 1944. A former
Jap pearlmg-lugger
lay moored in the
bay. The bored
Water Transport
corporal who acted
as caretaker invited
me to spend the
night aboard. We
had just switched on
his radio to get
the news when the
lugger lifted bodily
out of the water.
The corporal
grabbed his wireless-
set and I clung to
the bunk-stanchion
for support. Again
the craft heaved and
lurched, with
enamelled - plates
leaping out of the
rack and the cabin-
lamp almost turn-
ing somersaults in
its gimbals. Then
the lugger rolled her
gunwales under, in
a bay as calm as a
pan of milk. After
this came a vibra-
tion and shuddering
of the craft, with
every timber in the
hull creaking and
groaning. Outside
there was a noise
like a breaker hit-
ting a hollow rock,
and a foul, oily
stench filled the air. The lugger gave a
final lurch, then there was silence save
for the wash slapping against her sides.
We agreed that we had no real objection
to an old bull whale coming up under
the keel to rub the barnacles off his back,
but that he might have been considerate
enough to give us notice of his intentions.
* * * *
“Territorian”: I, too, have been startled
by abos yelling that someone was
“killed” (B. 11/3/’53), but soon realised
the difference between being “killed” —
i.e., hurt, either slightly or seriously —and
“killed hard-feller finish,” which means
“properly dead.” More than once, in my
early days in the bush, I would hear a
row in the blacks’ camp in the early
hours of the morning, and then a frantic
black would rush over; “Boss, boss, you
come on quick-feller, Tommy bin killum
Mary longa woomera.” Investigation
would reveal Mary nursing a sore hand
and howling, “Tommy bin killum finger
longa me! ” the finger being barely
scratched. Now, when word comes that
someone has been “killed,” I invariably
demand, “What name killum? Killum
hard-feller finish, or killum little bit?”
before I investigate matters. Another
heart-stopping habit of the abos is their
custom of putting the cart before the
horse in their speech. The first time our
black rouseabout rushed over and
shrieked: “Missus, missus, you come on
quick-feller, dog bin killum piccaninny
longa you” I tore over expecting to see
bits of my offspring scattered over the
landscape ; instead, I found the kid hit-
ting the dog. Incidentally, instead of
ever asking “Who is the owner of that
dog?” when a stranger tyke came into
the yard, the abo.’s query always was,
“Who belong that one dog?” as if the
dog was more important than the man —
which may be correct reasoning, accord-
ing to abo.'belief.
* * ♦ ♦
“Solitude”: “Mow’d the crop of oats
turn out?” Young Carruthers sidled
down the bar to where Herb was irrigat-
ing after a long drought. “Heard you
were cropping that new paddock on
Black Creek.” “Yair, I did, arid it was
the best crop of oats I ever seen,” Herb
answered. “We filled up both stack-
stands, and had to go like mad to build
another. Be about a record for this
district, I reckon.” “Gripes, no, it
couldn’t beat some of the crops my old
man had along the river,” Carruthers
claimed eagerly. “One year the oats
were so thick you couldn’t run through
em.” It was at that moment he caught
sight of Seventyfiver. “S’pose you don’t
crop those starvation ranges out your
way, old-timer?” he grinned. “Waste of
time, hey?” Seventyfiver eased his back
against ‘the bar, and propped himself
with both elbows. .“Did once,” he
drawled without turning round,
“Cropped that paddick be’ind the
station.” “Yes?” Carruthers nudged
Herb and winked. “Have much trouble
caring it all in?” “No, sonnie, not
much trouble,” the old bloke went on.
“Y’ see, I went along first an’ chucked
a dozen or so stocks over the fence inter
the next paddick.” “Chucked ’em out!
What for?” The old bloke felt for his
pipe. “ ’Ad to,” he droned indifferently.
“ ’Ad t’ get room f’r the wagonette in
the flamin’ paddick some’ow.”
* * * *
“Dick the Fossicker”: In the early
days of Coolgardie most of the carrying
was done by camels owned by Faiz and
Tagh Mahomet. A shipment of camels
which they had imported arrived at the
fields too poor for work, so they were
turned loose to pick up condition. Each
camel was hobbled and carried a bell-
some deep-toned “bullfrogs,” others clon-
kers and a few tinklers. The best patch
of mulga was around our camp, and the
consequent racket brought protests which
elicited only laughs and jeers from the
’Ghans. Gn the third day a hard-bitten
newcomer arrived and we told him our
troubles. “Leave it to me,” he said. He
went to the store and made a purchase,
then took it out with some twine after
dark. Next morning a fearful hullabaloo
arose from the ’Ghans. Not only had
the fat of that most unclean of beasts,
according to Koranic law, the pig, been
rubbed all over bell-straps and hobbles
to defile the fingers of the Faithful when
forced to touch them, but lumps of the
filthy meat had been tied to them as
well! There was a great mustering of
camels, and that night the stars , looked
down on a once-more peaceful pros-
pectors’ camp.
AT ERA
At Era when the sun goes down
darkness comes sliding from the hill,
slipping down the cracks where the creek slips
to the sea.
Then the grazing grass grotvs a stranger green
as darkness, which on the hillside had stumbled,
twig-crackling, slips quietly now
seeping like water through the grass
and round by the sandhills
to the sea.
There are crows at Era, and their cawing
over the huddled hillside bushes
suddenly hurts the ear.
And darkness hides in the mangrove swamp,
imprisoned by winding pathways there.
Now draw the tent-flaps tight, prepare for sleep,
thinking of silence. Now you hear
the wind’s hush in the palmtrees
and the crow’s cry and the waves’ thud-falling,
now you dream
strange dreams, and wake bewildered when the
dawn is near.
N.S.W.
ROBIN RHONA PRAIT.
DIPPIN' 'EM
Sheep on the big stations in
the nor’-west of Westralia are —or
were in my day—dipped “straight off
shears” to save them the fatigue of an-
other muster later on, an important factor
where paddocks are measured in square
miles. But it didn’t save us knights
of the bath from experiences that left
permanent mental scars.
Our dip was one with 4 a slide
down which the muttons fell side-
ways. When we got a crowd of
crazy weaners, terrified at the sight of
their newly-shorn brethren, they would
tear full-tilt up the race and from then
on it was as though they fell in showers
from heaven. There were always 10 or
12 swimming and two or three flounder-
ing on the bottom while swearing
station-hands would grope for them with
crutches, or, at the risk of falling head-
long into the soupy dip, with their hands.
Then would come the lambs, also
newly-barbered, pouring in like a bucket
of shot coming down a drain-pipe, and in
a minute or so the entry-end would be
a choked and struggling mass, at which
we would madly pluck and tear trying
to turn their silly heads in the right
direction, hauling out half-drowned
specimens and holding them up by the
heels to let their bath-water run out.
Those that had made the trip would
choke the exit-ramp, where another set
of maniacs was stationed to hoist them
into the draining-pens to make room for
those coming behind. But it was the
rams that gave us some real exercise.
They had been through before, and re-
membered it, and had no intention of
going through again. So each hefty
brute had to be dragged by the horns
to the entrance, a man on either side.
Their combined efforts just sufficed to
push him on to the slide and, for one
brief second, he just had to go where
we wanted him. Non-co-operation set
in again when he hit the bath; he’d
float, but he wouldn’t swim, so another
towing-party would take over and haul
him through, and a further gang drag
him up the ramp to drain. There were
600 to 700 to be handled like that, at
an unsheltered dip under a scorching sun.
And some people go on the land from
choice!
MINGARI.


to mw mm
tM
m. '
By Canadian Pacific
OlQllt SUPER DC-6B S.. . new, pressur-
ized Canadian Pacific “ Empresses ” , . .
luxurious appointments . . . comfort . . .
gaiety. Plenty of space . . . deep reclining
chairs . . . three washroom locations . . .
details unmatched in air travel. Overnight
stop at glamorous Moana Hotel, Honolulu, at
no extra cost.
sd
New friends . . . laughter . . . good-natured
banter ... attentive stewardesses . . . delicious
meals . . . there’s joy and relaxation in a
flight by Canadian Pacific, Stopover at Hono-
lulu is an especially delightful interlude.
Excellent connections at Vancouver with
Trans-Canada Air Lines to Europe; also at
Honolulu with U.S. carriers.
For full details, consult
CuM&dUui (PeudlUt
AIRLINES V
ai 247 George Si., Sydney, and S 9 William St, Melbourne
or Union Steam Ship Co. (General Agents)
KUT> mom SAFE!
SANDERS
Correspondence. Invoices,
etatements. etc., filed to the
“Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted Into a.
perfect book of reference at
the end of each iLonth —or
any other period.
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pit. Lm
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
M K),BOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE! .. Vardon & Sons Ltd
PERTH .. . .Docket Book 00. (Auat.)
'
«S?K2
Prime* mad fr-
itter infornudoß
spo B appllcstloß
Canyon tell
a‘big Scotch from a
.... ‘ small’ Scotch?
V-.-.
V °ich wi s
«w*«22S
tmimncii
•uinmii) im ,
D| STILLERS ««th SCOT
PRODUCT or „,*«
f M;
We don’t mean, of course,
the difference between a
double and a single.
We mean the difference
between the ordinary-
run of whiskies—and a
masterpiece such as
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
We of Bell’s are an
independent firm of
distillers—have been since
1825 when we started.
The output of Bell’s is not
huge. But to those who
know it, it is very, very
precious. At Bell’s,
generationaftergeneration
have handed on their skill;
and this coupled with the
knowledge, almost the
intuition, of those who
make whisky ensures
that the barley, water and
peat, aided by the soft
Highland air, go to make
a perfect whole. Try
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky—
and you will acknowledge
its magic mastery,
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
DISTILLERS PERTH SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
Business. Rollery. etc.
Business and Shares
Wherever businessmen for-
gather there is always a live sub-
ject: “How’s business?” or
“What do'you think of the share-
market?”
Some people are finding busi-
ness bad. The majority are
finding it good, though not as
brisk as it was during the period
of extreme scarcity of most com-
modities. Those who are find-
ing it bad are, generally, en-
gaged in those lines which be-
came comparatively rapidly
overproduced after the war, such
as glassware, textiles, etc. And
luxury lines have been hit, as
much by an economic sobering-
up as by the effect of heavy
rates of sales-tax on what have
been adjudged unessential items.
As regards the sharemarket,
it is generally lifeless. Good
second-line stocks can often be
bought to yield 6 p.c. or more.
And if there is a large parcel
of such shares on the market at
any time, very often it cannot
be absorbed except at cut prices.
When the £1 ords. in Swans,
Ltd., were offering in Sydney at
40s. a few weeks ago (to yield
6.1 p.c.) they were a bargain.
The £1 ords. in Frederic Ash,
now offering at 405., are simi-
larly cheap. These are good
examples of the market’s in-
ability to absorb any unusual
offering* of a tip-top secqnd-line
stock.
With regard both to merchan-
dise and shares, one factor
applies almost equally: The
period of buying in full specu-
lative confidence of an early
price-rise has gone. Today
people buy goods because they
have an immediate need for
them, or know of an immediate
demand for them. Previously
they bought almost anything
they thought might become in
short supply, or that might go
higher in price. (And in the
period when the basic wage went
up by leaps every quarter early
buying meant buying well.)
Today people buy shares mainly
when they can see a satisfactory
yield offering, or when there is
an obvious bargain going. Be-
fore the end of 1951 there was
a general share-buying scramble
that was based originally on fears
of extreme inflation, but which
developed into mainly a specu-
lative orgy, especially when the
writing-up of capital became the
order of the day, to be followed
by bonus issues of similar
amount.
These bonus issues in some
cases have proved to be ill-
advised. In others, they did little
more than bring asset-values into
line with the inflated figures of
the present day. In those cases
where they have resulted in the
dividend being nominally re-
duced they have reflected the
reduced net earning-power of
industry under price-control and
heavy company taxation. To
have kept the book-value of
their assets at their old written-
down pre-war values would have
been to give a false impression
of earning-power in presqnt-day
depreciated pounds.
But not many speculators
who bought shares during the
1950-51 boom had much real
knowledge of the politico-
economic nature of the reasons
which lay behind these bonus
issues. They put a purely Stock
Exchange interpretation on them.
A bonus issue was the signal for
another spurt in the price of a
stock, regardless of what next
year’s dividend was going to be.
In business and on the Stock
Exchange the aggressively specu-
lative spirit that persisted during
1949 to 1951 has wilted to a
negative quantity, and with its
going there are some to be found
who regret its passing. Never
did so many with so little ex-
perience apparently make so
much money. Never was there
wider scope for such a variety
of rackets. The speculator and
the racketeer have been almost
put out of business. On the
other hand, the customer in a
"No good to me, mum —I Want a V8 engine .”
shop can now demand service
and satisfaction, and the genuine
investor can now pick and
choose his investments—pro-
vided he has the money to invest.
Rather Brighter
Sharemarkets have been a
little steadier over the last week,
but there is no buoyancy in
quotations. The Commonwealth
loan was filled previously, and
most people by now are aware
of their income-tax commit-
ments. Public-body issues at
4| p.c. have been going off
well, and 5 p.c. debenture
offerings have been taken
fairly readily by the public.
Among more speculative new
issues Ampol Exploration’s offer-
ing was oversubscribed (W.A.
Petroleum has selected a drilling-
site on Rouge Range, 15 miles
south of Learmonth field head-
quarters), and Ravenshoe Tin
Dredging (N.Q.) has gone to
allotment with its issue of
400,000 £1 shares.
There have been some further
reports from leading industrial
and financial concerns. Burns
Philp, the interests of which
nowadays extend far from island-
trading—it has a finger in main-
land retailing establishments as
well as in insurance, shipping and
finance concerns—has confirmed
the fall from \l\ p.c. to 10 p.c.
in its annual div. Its net profit
was up slightly, but capital is
bigger, and , the conservative
board kept both interim and
final at the lower rate. There
was a drop from 555. 6d. for
the shares to 535. 6d. following
publication of the accounts.
Advance figures for Email,
Ltd. (otherwise Emmco), indi-
cate profits only slightly re-
duced for the year to December
31, and the div. stays at \l\ p.c.
for the year. Business has been
slacker in the household-
appliance industry, but Email
has established good financial
shock-absorbers. Its ss. shares
have been steady around 12s.
9d., yielding just under 5 p.c.
Peter Lloyd Industries (Syd-
ney), distributors of Wolseley,
Riley and other cars, as well
as heavy trucks, made a loss
for the half-year to December
3.1, and is paying no interim.
The co. is now trading at a
profit, its directors report. The
ss. shares are at 2s. lid.
Fairymead Sugar, hit badly
by the season in its 1950 operat-
ing year, estimates a record out-
put of sugar for 1953, The £1
shares are around 355. 3d., com-
pared with a “low” of 30s. 9d.
in 1952. But they were up to
38s. earlier this year. Consoli-
dated profit of General Indus-
tries, controlling stove- and
bath-manufacturing cos,, was a
little lower for the year to De-
cember 31. But the dividend was
maintained at 10 p.c.
Coal earnings have been much
better, as shown by the results
of Caledonian Collieries. But
there are still pref.-div. arrears
to be paid off before Caledonian
ords. get anything out of the
business.
Provided State Governments
settle down to the job of doing
the best they can with the limited
loan-money available there is the
likelihood of a steady improve-
ment in economic conditions
over the next 12 months. But
governmental extravagance and
inefficiency, if continued by State
authorities, will stand in the way
of Federal recovery plans.
Like the exchange-rationing
system for 1952, that for 1953
has pleased few, if any, Maori-
landers, and must bear the
opprobrium which is usual in a
compromise. After its experi-
ence over the past few months
the Reserve Bank, which has the
impossible task of trying to
please everyone and at the same
time restore a healthy exchange
position, has realised that it has
few friends but many suitors.
Since it halved the basis for
exchange-grants at the beginning
of August and put everyone on
40 p.c. of 1950 allocations as a
starting-point the bank has been
less popular than ever. Traders
who want freedom condemn the
system as import-licensing in a
most thinly-veiled form,, while
manufacturers who want as
much of the market as they can
supply have been asking for a
full return to import selection
hr equally effective protection.
As time goes on it should be
clear to everyone that the low
basis set by the bank makes its
control highly selective. It’s
likely that many disgruntled
ones who can make out a rea-
sonably good case will be
allowed much more than the
minimum of funds to buy
materials and essential goods.
The bank seems to be making
sure that it has a good-sized
pool in reserve to meet special
needs, and isn’t going to allow
luxuries or semi-luxuries to mop
up too much.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KEITH lAN OOSTIN late of 33
Kembla Street Croydon Park.—TAKE
NOTICE that AMY DOROTHY COSTIN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4736
of 1952 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 10th day of July 1953 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. 0. RICKARD, SYMONDS
& GO., Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. C . O. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
'Phone: BW 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
iiiCceM..
mss
«^;®jsSssssJs
; ~;
mmsm
m * m
WITH PALMOLIVE BRILLIANTINE
FOR THAT NEWLY BARBEREO LOOK
jfeo
s Hi I
m
A
A touch of Palmolive Brilliantine, a
flick of the comb, and your hair is
neat and tidy for the day. You
will have no more worry about
that "plastered-down” look.
Brilliantine is a light, delightful oil
that gives the hair a light gloss, and
puts you at the head of the well-
groomed men!
PALMOLIVE
BRILLIANTINE
For That Successful
Well-groomed Look
REPAIR BILLS
m
b»ca
o' u
f
/
'A
fi
v. <
62a
Zr*-*"' t '<* 1 * r/
Farming is a business — you can’t
afford losses through inefficiency. Making do
with out-of-date equipment is false economy. You’ll get
far richer rewards for your labour if you invest in a Nuffield Universal
— the one tractor that has everything, does everything! Complete
with 6-way power — power take-off, swinging drawbar, belt pulley,
hydraulic lift, two hydraulic tapping points, and full electrical
equipment, the Nuffield Tractor does
everything a 10-horse team will do
and more, effortlessly, and with
year-round reliability and economy.
You// Save Money
Make More money
W
WITH A
as
00001
NT12.2A.52
U**
s&L.
TRACTOR
the last word in
efficient Tractor design
DISTRIBUTORS—
New South Wales: PETER LLOYD LIMITED. Victoria: KELLOW-
FALKINER PTY. LTD. Queensland: HOWARDS LIMITED, South
Australia: KINGSWAY LIMITED. Western Australia: PARK LANE
MOTORS PTY. LTD. Tasmania: METRO MOTORS PTY. LTD.
MRWS
ON-THE-JOB SERVICE, GENUINE SPARE PARTS
AND IMPLEMENTS' ARE AVAILABLE FROM
AUTHORISED NUFF/EID DEALERS THROUGHOUT
THE COMMONWEALTH.
KiIiFFBID
DE\Lf.R
NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., VICTORIA PARK, ZETLAND, N.S.W.
THE SEARCH FOR OIL IN PAPUA
By JOHN PAIN
It was announced over the
A.B.C. network on April 22
that Australasian Petroleum and
Island Exploration were aban-
doning any further attempt to
produce oil from the predomin-
antly mudstone and sandstone
deposits of the Aure Trough,
underlying the Gulf Division of
Papua, and were concentrating
their efforts on the predomin-
antly limestone-bearing Western
Papuan Basin. The little
prominence given to this news
in the Press suggests that the
importance of the statement has
not been appreciated.
The decision, as announced,
amounts to a resolution by the
two companies not to outlay
further capital in any part of
the Gulf Division nor in most,
if not all, of the Delta Divi-
sion. In view of the £ll million
or so which they have already
expended without tangible re-
turn, this limitation of their
exploratory field is commercially
sound. The first well drilled by
the A.P. Co. in Papua wds
spudded-in at Kariava on March
18, 1941, after a very thorough
geological examination by the
most advanced technique avail-
able at that date. It was
abandoned at what was then an
all-time depth record for Aus-
tralasia of 12,621 ft., without
striking Anything more promis-
ing than traces of oil in some
of the cores recovered. The
surface structure at the Kariava
site Was very favorable for the
accumulation and retention of
petroleum in commercial quan-
tities, but the conditions of
deposition of the beds —result-
ing from the pakeogeography of
the region of which practically
nothing was known —were such
that porous and permeable beds
of sufficient extent to constitute
a sizeable oil reservoir were
absent.
The next location to be drilled
was at Oroi, south of Yule
Island. Essentially, this well
was sunk with the object of de-
fining the s.-e. limit of possibly
oil-bearing conditions. It did!
After encountering shallow gas,
the bore entered steeply-dipping
beds around 5500 ft. and was
abandoned at the depth of
5516 ft.
The next wells to be drilled
were located south of Kariava,
near the boast, at Upoia and
Hohoro, in an area that has
long been noted for surface
manifestations of petroleum
and their usual accompaniment
of faulted and complex struc-
tures. As expected from the re-
sults of shallow drilling, prior
to 1930, evidences of oil and gas
were obtained at both of these
sites, but, although the second
Hohoro test was carried down
to 10,642 ft., in spite of difficult
drilling conditions, no evidence
of the existence of porous and
permeable beds of any extent
was obtained at depth.
It seemed probable, indeed,
that rhythmic conditions of
deposition, which might have
produced such strata, had been
absent during the formation of
the Aure Trough, not only
where it had been tested but for
its whole extenUfrom the Purari
River south-eastwards to Yule
Island. This not-completely-
justified generalisation was prob-
ably the reason for the abandon-
ment of operations at the tenta-
tive drilling-sites of Malalaua
and Orloli and for the concen-
tration of effort on the structure
known as the Western Papuan
Basin underlying the Delta and
Western Divisions. Owing to
the lack of outcrop evidence,
the characteristics of this struc-
ture, now known to be composed
largely of limestone, had to be
determined by geophysical
methods.
The first “Basin” test was
sunk at Wana, and reached a
depth of 9685 ft. It produced
light brine (with a small “wet”-
gas content) at the rate of
500,000 gallons a day, thus indi-
cating the presence of the long-
sought-for porous and perme-
able conditions. A well sited
still further west, at Ornati, not
far from Kikori, is still drilling.
In mid-April it had reached the
record depth, for Australasia, of
12,852 ft,, and had encountered
caving conditions and loss of
drilling-mud. This difficulty,
however, has not lessened the
determination to drill deeper.
The 6|-inch casing has been set
at 12,025 ft., which in itself is
a phenomenal depth.
No one can quarrel, on com-
mercial grounds, with the de-
cision of Australasian Petroleum
and Island Exploration to con-
fine their search for oil to what
the available evidence indicates
to be the more favorable halt of
the permit-area, and it is no
adverse criticism of their magni-
ficent achievement to point out
that the Aure Trough has been
tested to depth at three localities
only Kariava, Oroi and
Hohoro-Upoia. Of these, Oroi
was purely a limit test, and it is
questionable if experienced geo-
logical opinion, including that
of the resident geological staff,
approved of the Hohoro-Upoia
tests except on the ground of
expediency. There were many
obvious objections from struc-
tural and geo-mechanical points
of view.
In addition to the A.P. and
I.E. co.’s tests, the small
Papuan Petroleum Co.,
holding a permit only 75 square
miles in extent, drilled two tests
in 1940-41, but only the first of
these was located by a profes-
sional oil-geologist, and even it
was drilled after he had left the
service of the co. This well was
lost, for a reason not explained,
above the horizon where the
Papuan “heaving shale” nor-
mally gives trouble and at less
than half the depth which was
then considered as the minimum
at which oil could be struck.
The second test was located on
what appears to be a volcanic
neck. The bore was sunk on the
shore of a typical “sink-hole”
lagoon, and was roundly con-
demned by experienced oilmen.
Even the P.A.P. directors ap-
pear to have had misgivings as
to the site, for, at a recent meet-
ing of that co.’s shareholders,
the chairman stated that they
had been forced by the Gov-
ernment “experts” to continue
drilling in spite of the reiterated
protests of the Co.’s then-resident
oil-geologist.
From the above, it should be
realised that the Aure Trough
has been by no means exhaus-
tively tested, and that that un-
fortunate fact is due, largely, to
the divided operations forced
upon the major operators by the
obstructive effect of the P.A.P.
permit. It is obvious, moreover,
that the sinking of a well in this
area can be undertaken only by
an organisation possessing a
specialist and experienced staff
and ample finance. The infor-
mation already gained proves
that the minimum commitment
would involve, on the most
favorable location, the sinking
of a well to at least 12,000 feet
and that, in part, through un-
stable mudstones. In addition,
the siting of this well would re-
quire not only the use of the
most advanced geophysical
methods but also a reversion to
the more leisured method of the
study, in great detail, of all the
outcrop evidence.
Unfortunately, the type of
geologist prepared to undertake,
and capable of performing, the
slow, often tedious and always
exhausting ground-work in the
necessary detail to allow of the
interpretation of the palseogeo-
graphy of the region, and the
correct translation of the more-
rapidly and less-painfully ac-
quired geophysical data, has be-
come almost extinct, just as the
craftsman has been supplanted
by the mechanic in other
branches of industry.
It is to be hoped, however,
that success in Western Papua
will allow the A.P. and I.E. cos.,
at some future date, to complete
their testing of the Aure Trough
in the Gulf Division. It is
nothing short of a tragedy to
the Commonwealth as a whole
that the costly subsidising of a
small and inexperienced com-
pany, incapable of providing
either technical staff or equip-
ment for adequately carrying
the search for oil beyond the ex-
ploratory stage, should have re-
sulted in the abandonment of
work which might have pro-
duced results in more competent
hands. It is also tragic that Gov-
ernmental and private funds (on
a pound-for-pound basis) should
have been squandered owing to
the insistence of a Government
department in sinking a well for
petroleum in igneous rock.
In spite of all that, the Aure
Trough still holds sufficiently
good prospects of commercial
oil to justify the interest of any
responsible oil organisation
which is prepared to spend mil-
lions of pounds and drill tens of
thousands of feet. It offers no
hope of success, however, to
the small man or the part-time
oil-diviner, whether he be in
Government employ or not.


I-
I
33-39 HUNTER ST..
SYDNEY.
Offices at;
WAGGA WAGGA,
TAMWORTH and
ORANGE.
•
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73,000,000.
Protection of your assets
MANY men, and women, of means appoint Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited as Agent or Attorney,
during their absence from the State—during ill-health—
and at other times, for other reasons.
Thus, while they retain control of their assets, they
are relieved of the worry and trouble involved in the
management of their business affairs.
The wide experience of Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited, its organization and facilities, assure wise and
efficient management' of assets of every kind entrusted
to it.
A Senior Officer will gladly give you any informa-
tion you desire as to how the Company’s services can
conserve and protect your assets. Ring B 0377—0 r
write—and make an appointment. If you prefer, ask
that particulars be sent to you.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR. M.L.C., Chairman;
E. B. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. B. LYSAOHT; SAMUEL HOBDEBN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
A. G. ABMYTAGB, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
AND OTHERS. ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Metropolitan Life
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Added to Total
Dec., Income. Claims, ponses.* Funds. Funds.t
£“££££
1947.. 225,912 85,142 36,501 104,269 1,571,117
Bonus reserve, £5OOO .. ..1,576,117
From General Dept., £lOOO .. 1,677,117
1948.. 242,962 104,533 39,314 99,115 1,676,232
From General Dept., £4OOO .. 1,680,232
1949.. 264,806 101,732 44,412 118,662 1,798,894
1950.. 289,479 112,070 42,456 134,953 1,933,847
1951.. 318,421 107,067 58,077 153,277 2,087,124
From General Dept., £lO,OOO .. 2,097,124
1952.. 354,107 142,390 65,328 146,389 2,243.513
♦lncludes divs. to shareholders, 1947, £2482; 1948,
£2744 ; 1949, £2837 ; 1950, £3293 ; 1951, £3461;
1952, £3884.
Industrial Department.
Ex- Added to Total
Dec., Income. Claims, penses.* Funds. Funde.f
1947.. 376,364 152,502 108,113 115,748 1,711,276
Bonus reserve, etc., £6543 .. .. 1,717,819
1948.. 392,538 168,407 107,786 116,345 1,834,164
From General Dept., £3OOO .. 1,837,164
1949.. 405,385 160,481 112,569 132,335 1,969,499
1950. . 416,634 175,096 115,510 126,028 2,095,527
1951.. 433,327 194,168 124,310 114,849 2,210,376
From General Dept., £4OOO ~ .. 2,214,376
1952.. 432,774 231.132 136,784 64,858 2,279,234
* Includes divs. to shareholders, 1947, £2500 ; 1948,
£1820; 1949, £1875 ; 1950, ,£lBOO ; 1951, £2OOO ;
1952, £2462.
The Metropolitan writes ordinary, indus-
trial and accident business in the three
eastern States and South Australia. At
the close of last accounts the actuary
made another triennial overhaul of the
business, and the results show encourag-
ing, progress and a sound financial posi-
tion.
A pleasing feature is the growth in
amount of ordinary business written. Of
last term’s total new business, 71.2 p.c.
was ordinary compared with 46.6 p.c.
three years ago and 31.4 p.c. in 1939.
Policyholders get more benefit from
ordinary than from industrial contracts.
That is mainly because industrial business
is much more costly to administer. Col-
lection of industrial premiums is a
weekly door-to-door matter, which recent
successive and sharp rises in wage-rates,
etc., have made increasingly expensive.
Nevertheless, industrial assurance is an
avenue of saving which continues to
provide worth-while benefits that would
otherwise be denied to many. In the
O.D. the co. is committed to earn £9
or more for policyholders before share-
holders become entitled to £l.
Despite the upsurge of costs, and,
until recently, artificially-low rate of
interest in the gilt-edged market, there
has been a pleasing increase in the sur-
plus available for distribution (excess of
assurance funds over actuarial liabilities
under policies):
Year, f Surplus
Dee.3.l, Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1937 .. £36,910 £13,242 £48,669
1940 .. 33,597 15,071 48,668
1943 .. 23,317 16,609 39,926
1946 .. 27.680 25,661 53,341
1949 .. 39,303 24,822 64,125
1952 .. 66,291 64,511 130,802
Bonuses to policyholders have been
maintained on an even keel at satis-
factory rates, ranging in the O.D. from
16s. p.c. on contracts less than five years
in force to 245. p.c. on those 15 years
old or more. In the I.D. increments to
the sum assured -rise from 5 p.c. on
five-to-nine-year-old policies to 15 p.c. on
15-year-old contracts, plus 1 p.c. for each
additional year. And there are further
benefits relating to waiver of premiums,
while bonuses continue, in old age in
both departments.
Of last year’s surplus in the 0.D.,
£42,815 was declared divisible profit,
£4OO was sent to the staff fund, £2500
to investment reserve, and £20,576 was
carried forward. This large carry-for-
ward, and other things, augur well for
the future of bonus lates.
Last term £1,667,053 (up £183,667) of
new business was put on the books, of
which £1,188,006 (up £164,806) was ordi-
nary and £479,074 (up £18,861) indus-
trial. The average amount per ordinary
policy was , £423.3 as against £402.8 in
1951, an indication of growing awareness
of the need for more cover under today’s
altered conditions.
The year’s total income in the two
life departments combined was £786,881
(up £35,133)—£628,301 (up £20,976)
premiums and £158,580 (up £14,157) net
interest, rents, etc. After paying all
legitimate claims and exes., £224,200
remained, of which £211,247, together
with £14,000 from the General branch,
was added to the life funds, raising them
to £4,503,247. In addition there was
£39,500 of other reserves which also
belong to policyholders.
Exes, made off with 21.2 p.c. on net
premiums in the O.D. and 37 p.c. in the
1.D., compared with 21.1 p.c. and 33 p.c.
respectively in the previous year. The
net interest return on mean funds, plus
share capital (£100,000), was £3 13s. 6d.
p.c. (down 2d.). The margin between
this rate and that assumed in valuing
policy liabilities ( 2\ p.c. in the 0.D.) is
sufficient for maintenance of current
bonus rates. The dividend to share-
holders was maintained at 12i p.c.
Public securities (up £131,763) account
for 65.2 p.c. and shares, etc., (up
£77,052) for 21 p.c. of total assets:
1951. p.c. 1952. p.c.
Freehold, etc. .. £200,923 4.3 £203,575 4.2
Public securities, etc. 3,037,893 65.6 3,171,656 65.2
Shareholdings, etc. 946,613 20.4 1,023,665 21.0
Mortgages . . . . 176,524 3.8 199,406 4.1
Loans on policies. . 148,736 3.2 160,200 3.3
Book debts . . 88,706 1.9 98,851 2.0
Cash .. .. 35,974 0.8 7,186 0.2
£4,635,369 £4,864,539
Shareholdings include 185,420 f.-p. £1
shares in a subsidiary, Union Investment
Co., which was taken over a few years
ago and is reported to be a satisfactory
dividend-payer.
York Motors (Hold’g), Ltd. (Syd.)
and Subsidiary.
Year. r Dividends—To Re-
Nov., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£/ p.c. p.c. £/ £, £>
1944.. 33,245 10.5 32,760 485 137,158
Added intangibles, £495 .. .. 137,653
Prom inner reserves, £10,006 .. 127,647
1945.. 52,620 9.9 31,158 21,462 106,185
1946.. 54,264 10 31,200 23,064 83,121
Added intangibles, etc., £2350 .. 85,471
1947.. 205,601 15 46,800 158,801 73,330
Reserves.
To stock reserve, £50,000 .. .. 23,330
Reduction intangibles, £9OO . . 24,230
Share premiums, £BB,OOO .. .. 112,230
1948.. 15 52,300 237,759 349,989
To stock reserve, £50,000 .. .. 299,989
Reduction intangibles, £9OO . . 300,889
1949.. 376,996 20 80,000 296,996 597,885
To stock reserve, £lOO,OOO .. .. 497,885
Reduction intangibles, £lO2O .. 498,905
Reserves capitalised, £BO,OOO .. 418,905
1950.. 995,569 25 149,000 846,569 1,265,474
Added intangibles, £1430 .. ..1,264,044
1951.. 929,256 30 204,000 725,256 1,989,300
To staff fund. £20,000 .. .. 1,969,300
Less net adjustments, £4B .. .. 1,969,252
1952.. 480,521 30 223,833 256,688 2,225,940
The sharp contraction of £448,735
(48.3 p.c.) in last term’s net earnings
marks the passing of the peak of the
post-war boom in the motor trade, and
of the excessive demand and opulent
earnings which accompanied it. Still,
at today’s reduced level of demand, the
down-curve of which now appears to be
flattening-out, and with' other things as
they are, the big distributors in the trade
look like winning succulent profits.
The perplexing question to which both
management and invetsors are seeking
the answer at the moment is, how long
will things remain as they are? En-
couraging features in the immediate out-
look are good seasonal prospects, satis-
factory level of export incorAe, growing
balance on overseas trade account (due
partly to import restrictions), and steadier
tone of trade generally. But the whole
background, local and overseas, is very
fluid, and suggests a gradual tightening
rather than loosening of trade activities.
Nevertheless, with the ghosts of war,
peace and inflation still hovering round,
any assessment of future trading condi-
tions becomes more than usually specu-
lative.
What can be said definitely is that the
York organisation—parent holding co.
and operating subsidiary—is well
equipped to gather whatever profits are
to be won from the trade. The sub-
sidiary holds franchises in N. S. Wales
for Morris and Chrysler cars and trucks,
and for Rolls-Royce, Bentley, Singer,
Studebaker and Willys cars, as well as
for Fargo trucks and Ansaldo tractors.
In Queensland its agencies include Austin,
Rolls-Royce, Bentley, Willys and Reo
vehicles, and Cletrac (Oliver) tractors
and Britstand and other earthmoving
equipment.
The British agencies for Morris and
Austin cars, which are among the four
best-sellers on the market, are the money-
spinners. New car registrations in N. S.
Wales and Queensland dropped by
approximately 24 p.c. in each State last
year. Sales of tractors and earthmoving
equipment fell away, too, and so did
sales of trucks, etc., due in part to Gov-
ernment restrictions on privately-owned
road transport. Servicing and sales of
parts continued to make a handsome
contribution to earnings. Overall the
co.’s turnover (£13,575,220) fell by
approximately 25 p.c. The slip in gross
profit was £734,319:
Year. Gross Tax Net
Nov., Profit. Exes. Provision. Profit.
1949 . . £1,210,141 £550,980 £282,165 £376,996
1950 .. 2,314,938 748,428 570,941 995,569
1951 . . 2,673,824 980,569 763,999 929,256
1952 . . 1,939,505 1,057,591 401,393 480,521
Including £12,518 (down £24,924) for
depreciation, exes, (up £77,022) made off
with 54.5 p.c. of gross profit as against
36.6 p.c. in the previous term. There
was a big saving of £362,606 in the
allowance for taxation. The net result
at £480,521 was equal to 53 p.c. on
capital as it stood at the close of accounts,
compared with- 136.7, 146.4, 94.2, 83.2,
65.9 and 17.4 p.c. back to 1946. The
div. was kept at 30 p.c., and the £256,688
that remained lifted reserves to
£2,225,940, which was nearly 2\ times
the size of paid capital.
Shareholders welcomed the oppor-
tunity (in August last) to put up an
extra £226,666 of capital at par. The
money went mainly into freeholds (up
£137,192) and plant (up £58,519) and info
extension of the heavy-duty tractor
business:
Consolidated Figures.
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £680,000 £680,000 £ 906,666
Creditors, etc.t . . 1,681,218 2,762,699 654,083
Tax provision .. 620,372 763,842 562,090
Staff fund .. 20,000 20,000
Freeholds .. 144,183 320,648 457,840
Plant .. .. 81,443 111,089 169,680
Stocks . . .. 2,127,982* 3,575,845* 2,559,068*
Debtors . . . . 963,818 1,061,4451 989,428$
Investments .. 63,499 70,209 68,210
Cash . . . . 761,801 1,056,605 124,503
* After deducting special reserve, £200,000. f In-
cludes unspecified amount of specific reserves. $ After
deducting specific reserve, £50,000.
Stocks were reduced by £1,016,777 with-
out mishap, thanks partly to import re-
strictions. This and reductions of
£932,102 in the cash holding and of
£72,017 in debtors’ balances enabled
£2,108,666 to be slashed off the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc. Stocks
appear at cost less a reserve of £200,000
to cushion the effects of any sudden drop
in prices, and book-debts less £50,000
set aside against doubtful debts.
Next accounts are expected to benefit
from saving in administrative and over-
head charges, following an overhaul of
the organisation and completion of the
co.’s big new motor-assembly works at
Mascot (Sydney). The sharemarket
sums up the risks by pricing the f.-p.
£1 ords. at 535. 3d. (545. at April 30,
1952) to return 11.2 p.c. so long as the
30 p.c. distribution continues, or 7.5 p.c.
should the rate drop to 20 p.c. Net
tangible cover is 695. Id,
Lowe’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
ToEe- Be-
Jan., Profit. f Dividends , serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1949 .. 57,206 20 p.c. = 25,469 31,737 312,60
Capitalisation of reserves, £85,379 .. 227,22
From'inner reserves, £BO3 .. .. 228,02
1950 .. 46,127 15 p.c. = 36,234 9,893 237,91
1951 . . 65,339 17$ „ 42,272 23.067 260,98
Net reduction reserves, £3038 .. 257,94
1952 .. 47,126 15 p.c. = 37,008 10,118 265!06-
1953 . . 44,412 15 „ „ 36,968 7,444 275,50
* Includes stock depreciation reserve (now £65,000)
This prosperous men’s- and boy’s
tailoring and outfitting business is one
of the largest of its kind in the Com
monwealth. It caters mainly for the
middle- and lower-income groups, anc
operates a chain of 11 stores, of which
nine are in and around Sydney, with one
at Newcastle and another at Wol-
longong.
Divs. averaged 17| p.c., mostly tax
free, for the decade to the close oi
accounts in 1948. The public became
interested in the following December
when, to help finance further expan-
sion, 150,000 new ss. shares were offered
at a premium of 12s. 6d. each, and the
issue was oversubscribed. That liftec
paid capital to £142,298, which was in-
creased to the present figure of £227,677
in November, 1949, by the capitalisation
of £85,379 of the £91,250 of share
premiums gathered at the behest of
Capital Issues Control about a year
earlier. Meanwhile, 55,520 workers’
shares were issued to employees. These
shares, which are really the basis of a
profit-sharing scheme, have no capital
value or voting rights, but they rank
pari passu with subscribed capital for
dividends.
The co, came through the last 18
months of difficult trading with very
satisfactory results. Although there was
a sharp fall in net earnings from their
boom peak in 1951, and the div. was
lowered from 17£ p.c. to 15 p.c., the
lower rate is equal to 24 p.c. on capital
as it stood before the issue of bonus-
scrip just referred to. Last term’s 15 p.c.
was all taxable, the tax-free reserve (now
£596) having been practically exhausted.
The drop in the 1952 profit was due
mainly to buyer-resistance toward the
close of accounts, reduced margins and
increased overhead.
Last term opened with a swollen in-
ventory due to the import boom, demand
was irregular with a downward trend
during the first half, but picked up later.
Margins were further squeezed by rising
wage and other costs and by stiffening
competition. Sales, however, fell by less
than the average for the trade as a whole,
the chairman says. After writing-down
the book-value of stocks by £30,000
and allowing £3877 (down £4257) for
depreciation and £25,000 (down £21,000)
for taxation, the net result was only
£2714 lighter. It all suggests that a tight
hold was kept upon controllable out-
goings. The £44,412 of profit claimed
was equal to 18 p.c. on subscribed capital
and workers’ shares combined, compared
with 19.1, 27 and 1911 p.c. for the three
preceding years. With reserves at
£275,508 and capital as it is, the two
combined need to turn in 7 p.c. to cover
a 15 p.c. distribution.
The trading policy was to reduce stocks
(down £183,216, of which £30,000 was on
account of the writing-down already men-
tioned) and lighten the overdraft (down
£134,394):
1950. 1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. 227,677 227,677 227,677 227,677
Overdraft . . 153,780 19,386
Creditors . . 176,896 113,911 122,307 126,277
Provision for tax.. 90,152 87,632 105,325 67,844
Staff funds . . 9,000 14,000 6,649 22,112
Final dividend . . 36,234 24,155 18,501 21,555
Freeholds .. .. 235.170 235,170 235,170 260,756
Plant, etc. . . 24,248 25,350 32.458 38,889
Stock . . . . 449,034 289,763 558,988 375,772
Debtors* .. .. 34,149 45,049 37,344 30,072
Cash, shares, etc... 35,275 132,528 38,343 54,870
* Includes provision for doubtful debts.
The contraction of £24,573 in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£203,540) was due
entirely to an outlay of £32,017 net on
premises and plant.
The current term has opened with busi-
ness active but at a slightly lower level


IXL - AJC
OK-VO
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—~
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in :—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING- INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
I 31
AUSTRALIAN
mroiiii
LIFE ASSURANCE GAUD.
{lnc. in Q’ld. 1895 )
FOR 58
YEARS
Over the years funds of the A.M.L.
have been applied to aiding
national development, and its
sound and progressive policy has
provided a financial bulwark for
thousands of Australians.
every year a bonus year.
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
BWBO6I
TODAYS PROTECTION -TOMORROWS SECURITY
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
TO REGINALD SMITH late of Black-
town N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that
DULOIE MAUDE SMITH has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1469 of 1953 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three (3) years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 13th July 1953 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. S. G. SOMMERS & STEWART,
Solicitors, of 197 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROYCE HENRY MOLES late of 8
Richards Avenue Surry Hills near Sydney
in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that OLGA MURIEL MOLES has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4750 of
1952 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by 14th July 1953 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from J.
BIRNIE JACKSON & COATES, Solicitors,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Missing Friends
TO ETHEL ENID WILSON formerly of
Rosebeery Street Auburn in the State of
Victoria but now of parts unknown. —
TAKE NOTICE that your husband
FRANCIS JAMES WILSON has instituted
proceedings for Divorce on the ground of
desertion UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office, Supreme
Court, Melbourne, on or before the Nine-
teenth day of June 1953 the case may
proceed in your absence.—M. H. MAO-
GOWAN, 240 Hawthorn Road, Caulfield,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
TO CALVERT McKEAN formerly of
Yackandandah in the State of Victoria,
but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife MARGARET ANN
McKEAN has commenced proceedings for
a dissolution of marriage against you on
the ground of desertion during three
years and upwards UNLESS you enter
an appearance in the Office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court at Mel-
bourne on or before the Eighth day of
June 1953 and file an answer in the said
Office on or before the Eighteenth day of
June 1953 the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs.—P. J. RIDGEWAY & PEARCE,
379 Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitors
for the Petitioner.
TO NELLIE ROBERTSON formerly of
180 Lennox Street Richmond in the
State of Victoria but now of parts un-
known. —TAKE NOTICE that your hus-
band ALBERT ROBERTSON has com-
menced proceedings for a dissolution of
marriage against you on the ground of
desertion during three years and upwards
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the
Office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court at Melbourne by the Nineteenth day
of June 1953 and file an answer in the
said office by the Twenty-ninth day of
June 1953. the case may proceed in your
absence.—P, J. RIDGEWAY & PEARCE,
879 Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitors
for the Petitioner.
mmm
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
STATE
Under
GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
Write or Call for.
Free Booklet
10 O’Connell Street
(Box 9, G.P.0.). Sydney,
p. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
m
u
The Australian who isn’t an optimist just doesn’t
know his country or its enormous potential.
Have you ever paused to consider that the gross
■yalue of our rural production now is near enough to
one thousand million pounds a year? It was
£1,180,000,000 in the wool boojn of 1950-51.
Have you thought of the assets we possess in
livestock numbers alone —nearly 11 million beef
cattle; five million dairy cattle; 118 million sheep,
most of them Merinos?
I’m not saying that this is the ultimate. Not at
all, for Australia is capable of vast rural expansion,
and the world needs all the food, we can produce.
But I do say that the economy is sound, and a
new and still brighter day is coming up before us.
Give no heed to those who howl calamity.
Production is rising, but not in proportion to the
increase in population. That’s something we must
look to urgently, especially where it touches food for
home and export.
We cannot ignore the fact that fewer than one-
fifth of the male labor force in this country are in
rural industry; that only one in every 12 of the wage
and salary earners of Australia is on the land.
Fewer men are working on farms now than before
the war, but this is partly compensated for by greater
mechanisation on the farms and by the extended use
of electricity.
We have our current problems; we always will.
But Australia to-day is blooming. We’ve just passed
through one of the best climatic seasons on record.
The coastal and near-coastal regions are lush. In the
interior grass is growing in places where it had not
sprung for years. Our own million and a half acres at
Alice Springs have never been in better heart, with
miles and miles of good herbage and lush feed, and
last month we sent off two full train loads—some 600
head of prime stock to the Adelaide markets.
Everywhere I see the signs of a great and growing
prosperity, provided we have the wisdom to plan our
course with courage and the will to power it through
to reality.
I have no doubt where the “road ahead.” will
lead us. I pin my faith to Australia’s future.
than a year ago, prices are
steadier, employment is high,
and another good season is on
its way. On the other hand com-
petition is getting more of an
edge on it, and costs are still
creeping upwards, which places
the emphasis upon turnover.
The market prices the scrip at
11s. (11s. 6d. a year ago) to
return 6.8 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis, or 5.7 p.c. should the rate
ease to 12£ p.c. Net tangible
cover is Us. per share, and there
is a tidy inner reserve in the
freehold item.
Kundang Tin
After the Jap occupation of
Malaya this co. (paid capital
£125,000 in f.-p. £1 shares) was
left with 292 acres of pay-dirt at
Kundang (Malaya) but no
dredge—it had been dismantled
and removed. Since the area
was too small to warrant pur-
chase of a new machine, the co.
made arrangements, a year or so
ago, with London-controlled
Taiping Consolidated for trans-
fer of one of its spare machines
to the unworked area. Dismantl-
ing of this machine commenced
in June last, and re-erection on
the new site at Kundang began
four months later. Digging is ex-
pected to commence well before
the end of 1953.
Since neither the capacity of
this dredge nor the total yard-
age and average value of ground
to be handled are stated in the
board’s last annual report, share-
holders can only guess at the re-
maining life and probable earn-
ing-capacity of the property.
Operating profits are to be shared
on a 50-50 basis while tin re-
mains above £6OO a ton. Should
the price of the metal fall below
the £6OO-level, profits, if any, are
to be shared on a sliding scale,
which will reduce Kundang’s
proportion to a minimum 30 p.c.
should the metal drop below
£5OO a ton. Kundang will not
be called upon to share “an
operating loss arising in any
quarterly period.”
During 1952 the co.’s war-
damage claims, etc., were
assessed at £59,319, of which
£30,111, plus £3658 for loss of
tin-ore stores, etc., was received.
At Dec. 31, 1952, £37,735 had
been spent on account of dredge
removal, etc., which will call
for considerable further but un-
stated outlay. When the books
closed current realisable assets
totalled £61,473; there was
£23,331 coming to outsiders.
The property figured at £26,000,
and the dredge, plant, etc., had
been written down to £25,310,
which is the amount expected to
be received in compensation for
their Joss.
The London spot price of tin
averaged £5964.5 (down £S 115.3)
for 1952. On March 17, 1953,
the figure stood at £5949; a
month later it had dropped to
£S7OO ; it stood at £S69O on May
1, and recovered to £5752.5 on
May 8. Behind the sharp drop
and then moderate recovery in
the price lies a complex set of
factors connected with the eco-
nomics of the “olive branch,”
doubts about future American
and European policy concerning
armaments, as well as technical
factors affecting the immediate
supply-demand position. Some
informed quarters believe that
the metal has already touched its
lowest price.
Aberfoyle Tin (Tas.), Aus-
tralia’s richest tin- and wolfram-
producer, continues to open up
nicely at depth. The main shaft,
now down 1062 ft., or 75ft. below
the new No. 9 level, entered the
granite at 1053 ft., where a new
24-inch-thick vein appeared,
which may prove of major im-
portance, the management says.
A crosscut has yet to be driven
on No. 9 level to. pick up ore
indicated by the diamond-drill
some 500 ft. to the west. Also
the shaft is to be deepened to
1347 ft. For the year to June 30
last' the co. treated 36,748 tons
ore for a profit of £537,621, and
paid dividends totalling £453,125
on a capital of £62,500. Ore
reserves down to No. 8 level
were put at 273,806 tons. The
co. sells its tin concentrates
locally; its wolfram concen-
trates are taken by the U.K.
Government and B.H.P. under a
four-year contract, from Nov.,
1951, at world prices, with a
“satisfactory” guaranteed floor
by U.K. Owing to the weakness
in the metal markets, the price
of the co.’s f.-p. Is. shares —
they could be picked up at 9s.
2d. a couple of years ago —fell
from 435. 4d. in Jan., 1953, to
345. 9d. last week.
* * * *
A 9d. dividend, payable June
12, and encouraging develop-
ments underground, have sent
Golden Plateau’s 3s. 4d. shares
paid to 2s. 6d. each up from 7s.
sd. to 13 s. in the market over the
last couple of months. The
drive on No. 5 level of the mine,
which is at Cracow (Q.), has
been extended Bft. in 24dwt. ore,
while lOdwt. and Bdwt. stuff has
been met with on No. 2, some
16dwt, values have shown up on
No. 1, and 9dwt. over a width
of ,16ft. has been disclosed on
No. 3. For the year to June 30
the 6500 - ton -a - month mill
treated 20,486 tons ore for
92740 z. fine gold (average 9dwt.)
and 11,0130 z. silver. Costs were
83s. 6d. a ton, the profit
£64,911, and a 6d. div. was paid.
Ore reserves were put at 64,200
tons averaging 6.sdwt.
DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents ana
Trade Marks. — Advt.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Many people disapprove of Mother’s
Day because it has become so commer-
cialised, but after the combination last
week of constant torrential rain and the
school holidays any mothers who sur-
vived were surely entitled to some sort
of celebration or congratulation.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Red Cross Ball, which was held
at the Trocadero on May 4, attracted
650 dancers —fewer than usual, probably
because the ball had had to be post-
poned because of Court mourning.
However, it was as beautifully dressed as
ever, with the elegance of the women’s
dresses almost outdone by the dress-
uniforms, decorations and “white-ties”
of the men. 1 Mrs. J P. J. McCauley, the
ball president, with her husband, Air-
Vice-Marshal McCauley, entertained in
the official party Lieutenant-General
F. H. Berryman and Mrs. Berryman,
Mr. and Mrs. J. F. Clack, Mr. and Mrs.
A. B. Challice and Mr. and Mrs. I.
Green. Mrs. McCauley’s' dress was of
black-and-white-spotted organza with
white organza frilling. Mrs. Berryman
wore a draped white dress embroidered
in gold. Mrs. H. A. Showers, wife of
Rear-Admiral Showers, wore navy-and-
white broderie Anglaise.
The table decorations, always a
feature of the ball, contributed to the
brilliance of the scene (although in some
cases advertisement was too blatant for
so distinguished an occasion). Hostess
at the prizewinning table was Mary
Hawkeswood, and Anne McCauley enter-
tained at a table decorated with an
illuminated windmill and a model Dutch
house.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Old Girls” seemed a very quaint name
to give the dancers at the Abbotsleigh
Old Girls’ Ball, held this year at Prince’s,
for their average age appeared to be
about 19, and in their glamorous dance-
dresses, mostly white or pastel, they
looked the personification of youth. The
school-colors and -crest decorated the
foyer, where the president of the ball-
committee, Margaret Gustafson, wearing
ruffled blue net, welcomed the president
of the ex-students. Lady Mackay, and
her husband, Sir Iven Mackay. Later
the deputy-headmistress, Miss Mary
Allan, introduced 12 new ex-students to
Lady Mackay, all the 12 carrying posies
which had been sent from Paris by the
headmistress, Miss G. Everett.
☆ ☆ ☆
The flower-arrangement displays at the
late-afternoon party of the Garden Club,
held during the week in the Rural Bank’s
conference-room, were something really
worth seeing. They ranged from the
abstract “swan” made from pieces of
driftwood by Mrs. E. G. Waterhouse
and her enchanting bird-and-tree
arrangement, to lavish displays of
autumn berries and leaves, one balanced
on tall scales by Mr. Maurice Sullivan,
another pouring out a profusion of fruits
like a cornucopia by Mrs. Arthur Davis-.*
Mrs. Davis also arranged an enchanting
rock-garden of moss and African violets
with the Chinese goddess Kwan Yin as
a focal-point.
Mrs. Gladys Lister copied an Old
Master almost exactly for her beautiful
vase. Mrs. Marion Darsow’s “Ballerina
in a Garden” was a miracle of meticulous
miniature work. Among the exquisite
arrangements one could mention Mrs.
H. H. J. Carrington’s double fuchsias,
the Romantic full-blown roses coupled
with pale-green by Mrs. T. H. Vidler,
Mrs. R. E. Simmons’s waterlily pool and
rose-petal fairies, Mrs. M. Barnett’s roses
and Mr. S. Lipscombe’s antique vase of
blue and pink flowers. Miss Elizabeth
Northcott, who was guest-of-honor, wore
a black dress with a white flowered
hat.
☆ ☆ ☆
At last Wednesday’s meeting of the
American Women’s Club held at thfe
Pickwick, Willie Fennell, whose mother,
Mrs. Paul Nelson, is a member of the
club, kept the company in a constant
simmer of laughter with his individual
and quiet type of humor. Assisting him
were Pauline Garrick (whose mother,
Strella Wilson, also belonged to the club
before she went to England to be hostess
at Australia House) and well-known
pianist Lettie Keyes. Among the 100
guests were two little girls who seemed
to enjoy the party immensely. They
were Jennifer Anne Lloyd (who is
Pauline Garrick’s daughter) and her
school-friend, Lucille Morrof. Hostess
was Mrs. Heloise Dennett, organising
president of the club. The programme
was arranged by Mrs. Mabel Wain Smith.
☆ ☆ ☆
The production of Sumner Locke-
Elliott’s play “Buy Me Blue Ribbons”
at the Independent brought back
memories of the days even before “Rusty
Bugles,” when Sumner was a constant
first-nighter at the theatre and his rapid-
fire conversation was quite a feature of
the foyer. He’s in New York now—
has been for some years—and is reported
to be one of the most successful writers
for television there. “Buy Me Blue
Ribbons” has been produced in New
York (not with too much success), but
then a. play has to be extra-buoyant to
keep afloat in that ocean. This is one
of the reasons why it is interesting to
see the play here.
Couldn’t help noticing the richness
and variety of‘Helene Jacoby’s ward-
robe as the mother in “Buy Me Blue
Ribbons,” It was such a,, relief after
the obviously eked-out wardrobes one
usually sees in amateur productions
(understandably so, of course). It seemed
to this Letter that Helene Jacoby’s por-
trayal of the ex-actress (with her pre-
served good looks, her springy walk and
gay light-mindedness) was a very good
one.
Charming Mrs. Anthony Quayle, wife
of the director of the Stratford-upon-
Avon company at present in Sydney,
will be remembered by many who saw
her in England as Lady Windemere in
"Lady Windemere’s Fan.” Mrs. Quayle
gave up acting when she married, but
found the theatre still with her in spite
of her belief that the job of being a wife
and mother is a full-time one. Her two
small daughters, Rosanna {five) and
Jenny {three), who are with her in Aus-
tralia, are already lovers of the theatre
{especially Shakspeare), and her home in
Stratford-upon-Avon is always the centre
for theatrical conferences, discussions
and parties. Houston Rogers photo.
☆ ☆ ☆
Putting first things first: .One of the
Quiz-Kids, asked what made the grass
green, replied “That stuff they have in
toothpaste.”
☆ ☆ ☆
In aid of Shore’s War Memorial Fund,
students of the school presented four
plays at their annual play-night on May
4, and of these “Breakfast in Bed,” by
Alec Jones, was awarded first place by
adjudicator Geoffrey Thomas. Alec,
who is 15 years of age, is a student at
Shore and is the son of the Classics
Master there. Helping behind the scenes
on playnight—held at the Independent
Theatre*—were several of the boys’ parents.
They included Mrs. A. M. Anstey. and
Mrs. A. W. Napier of Mosman, and
Mrs. W. Hawdon Wilson, Mrs. C. G.
B. Addison and Mrs. G. M. Gregory of
Roseville.
☆ ☆ ☆
Information for those who are in-
terested in “the takings” (and who isn’t?) :
the Committee of the Venetian Masked
Ball in aid of the National Opera Com-
pany announce that the net result of
their efforts was £750.
☆ ☆ ☆
Adding its quota to the steadily-
mounting “Lady Anderson Memorial
Fund” was the enjoyable musicale held
by the Ladies’ Auxiliary of the Royal
Empire Society on Wednesday. Mrs.
F. H. Berryman, who is acting-chairman
of the auxiliary, with hostesses Miss
Margaret Gillespie and Mrs. J. C.
Windeyer, welcomed as guest-of-honor
Lady Mackay, to whom a beautiful
cluster of camellias was presented.
Among the 100 who attended were the
Mayoress of Wpollahra, Mrs. H. Cun-
ningham, and Miss Frances Gillespie,
who is president of the Rachel Foster
Hospital.
MELBOURNE
Present at the Coral Sea Ball at the
Royale were the Governor and Lady
Brooks (who were attended by Col. R. H.
Spraggett), and U.S. Ambassador Pete
Jarman and Mrs. Jarman. The tropical
decor included masses of frangipani,
palm-trees laden with coconuts, fishnet-
festooned walls and colored shells and
huge butterflies set on the pillars. Patron
of the Australiah-American Association,
Mr. R. G. Casey, and Mrs. Casey (she is
president of the Women’s Group) re-
ceived the official guests, assisted by Sir
Leslie McConnan, who is a Council
member of the Association, and Lady
McConnan.
Lady Brooks wore a pale-apricot
Chantilly lac£ gown, which featured a
bouffant skirt and fichu neckline. Jet
butterflies were embroidered on the full
skirt of Mrs. Jarman’s magnolia faille
gown. Mrs. Casey wore unrelieved black
satin, and Lady McConnan hyacinth-blue
satin, which had matching sequins on the
bodice. Also in the official party were
Mrs. S. F. Rowell, whose white lace
gown was mounted on gold taffeta;
Mrs. Henry E. Stebbins, her choice dove-
grey tulle, finely pleated ; Mrs. R. Wayne
Denbo, wearing a black tulle gown with
white roses embroidered on the full skirt;
Mrs. John Middleton, whose apricot tulle
sparkled with gold sequins; and Mrs.
John Sullivan, in black sheath-skirt and
jacket of white and silver lame.
Of smoke-grey tulle was Mrs. Robert
Hamilton’s frock. Mrs. E. A. Doyle*
highlighted her black tulle gown with
turquoise-blue velvet shoulder-straps.
Notable also were the pink and silver;
lame worn by Mrs. A. G. Spensley, Mrs.
David Cheadle’s black satins, Mrs, Bill
Adamson’s white crepes, the cyclamen-
and-silver satin gown of Mrs. Gerald
Bacon, Mrs. Keith Rigg’s sweeping dove-
grey satins, Mrs. James Clarke’s sheath
gown of black velvet with its gold lame
treatment, Mrs. J. W. Thoman’s white
tulle with its scarlet satin shoulder-shawl,
and Garda Tinker’s picture gown of ice-
blue tulle.
☆ ' * ☆
Sister Mabel Tennant is the winner
of this year’s Centaur scholarship, which
was founded in honor of those nurses
who lost their lives in that ship during
the war. The scholarship entitles her to
two years’ post-graduate study abroad.
Sister Tennant has already been to Eng-
land, where she spent two years in
thoracic nursing at the Brompton
Hospital. She trained at Royal Mel-
bourne, where she was a ward-sister for
six years, and also did a midwifery course
at the Women’s Hospital. Before leaving,
Sister Tennant was guest-of-honor at a
party given by the trustees and selection-
committee of the Centaur War Nurses’
Memorial Trust. ' Sir Thomas Nettle-
fold, chairman of the trust, was present.
Others there to speed the parting guest
were Sir Peter McCallum, Mr. and Mrs.
Howard Buchanan, and Misses G. Bur-
bridge, B. Lawson, Hughes-Jones and J,
Headberry.
☆ ☆ ☆
The wives of honoraries and of gradu-
ates of St. Vincent’s Hospital are doing
their share in raising money for the
much-needed new casualty wing. On
May 27 they will hold a dinner-dance in
the Royale ballroom. Organiser is Mrs.
Frank May and committee-president
Mrs. H. G. Furnell. Tickets at £2 10s.
may be obtained from Mrs. W. M.
Calanchini (FU5554) or Mrs. Desmond
Hollywood (BJ3478).
☆ ☆ ☆
Jill, only daughter of Air-Vice-Marshal
F. R. W. Scherger and Mrs. Scherger,
who are now in Singapore, has become
engaged to Peter Lyons, elder son of
Mr. and Mrs. J. L. Gray, Girrahween,
Mount Eliza. On a short visit to her
homeland, Jill will return to Singapore
next Sunday. Peter served with the
R.A.N. during the war as a sub-
lieutenant. Engagement-ring is a large
zircon surrounded by diamonds.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the pre-Coronation buffet-dinner-
party given by Mr. and Mrs. Hymie
Jacobson at their Brighton home, the
hostess wore a frock of black ottoman-
silk. Among the guests were Mrs.
Norman Lynch, in grey shot satin; Mrs.
C. Day, who allied black wool-jersey
blouse and black velvet skirt; Mrs. C.
Curtain, who wore a gold-sequinned
Chartreuse sweater with a rust velvet
skirt and Mrs. George Shepherd, Mrs.
Harry Newling, Mrs. Royden Honeyman
and Mrs. Gray Staley, who chose black
ensembles.
☆ ☆
A few days before she began her nurs-
ing training at the Children’s Hospital
Joanna Roberts held a barbecue-dance
at her mother’s property, Longford,
Clyde. This was to celebrate her com-
ing-out, for only a few months ago she
left the C. of E. Girls’ Grammar School.
Joanna’s frock was green angora. Fairy-
lights were placed round the house and
in the pine-trees. Among the guests
were Sally Wallace, Robin Carmichael,
Catherine Riggall, James Burgess, Brian
Nancarrow and Christopher and Michael
Wood.
The University Students’ Revue,
“Hocus Focus,” will be produced by
Norma Ferris (subject of this Athoi
Shmith study), who recently returned
from a trip overseas, where her main
interest was in the development of tele-
vision On the staff of the A.B.C., Norma
is also interested in the theatre and has
made many appearances in Little Theatre
productions. The Revue opens on July
22 at the Union Theatre.
Australian and American flags, sur-
rounded by red, white and blue
hydrangeas, decorated the tables in the
Lower Town Hail when the Australian-
American Association held its annual
Coral Sea Luncheon. In the foyer was
a 12ft. model of the U.S.S. Coral Sea,
America’s latest aircraft-carrier. Official
guests were met by Wesley A. Ince, one
of the vice-presidents, in the absence of
president Sir John Latham. Lieut.-Gen.
Sir Horace Robertson was guest-speaker
in place of Vice-Admiral Sir John
Collins, who was still suffering from the
burns he received when saving Lady
Collins during the fire at their flat.
Official guests included the Chief of
Air Staff, Sir Donald Handman, Lieut.-
Generai S. F. Rowell and Mrs. Rowell,
Commodore and Mrs, D. H. Harries,
the Minister for External Affairs, R. G.
Casey, U.S. Consul-General Henry E.
Stebbins and his wife, and the U.S.A.
Army, Navy and Air Force attaches and
their wives. Lord Mayor W. J. Brens
was there with the Lady Mayoress, as
were Mrs. Rupert Downes, Mrs. Charles
Millett (wife of the retiring U.S. Consul),
Mrs. Ted Doyle, Mrs. Len Dooling, Mrs.
W. W. Killough and Mrs. W. Thoman.
☆ ☆ ☆
On Coronation night there will be a
large dinner-dance at Giro’s in aid of
the Children’s Hospital. The following
night the State Government will stage a
huge pageant' in the Exhibition. The
Coronation Ball at the Town Hall, at
which City Councillors will be the hosts,
is scheduled for June 4. The next night
there will be a dance at Greenknowe,
the home of Sir Robert and Lady Knox,
when flowers for decoration will* come
from Redlands, the Macedon home of
the Peter Manifolds. Mrs. Gordon
Darling heads the committee and pro-
ceeds will go to the Glamorgan Building
Fund. On the same night the committee
of the Q.V. Hospital, of which Lady
Brookes is president, will hold a dance
which the Governor and Lady Brooks
will attend. This will be at Raveloe,
the home of Lady Brookes’s son-in-law
and daughter. Sir Harold and Lady
Gengoult Smith.


Missing Friends
WILL any person knowing the whereabouts
of ROBERT JAMES MILLIGAN, formerly
of 65 Williams Road, Windsor, Victoria,
please communicate with HOME, WIL-
KINSON & I*OWRY, 401 Collins Street,
Melbourne —REWARD. Information re-
quired for insurance purposes only.
MITCHELL. Would ROSE CLAUDINE
MITCHELL, born 22/4/1879, or anyone
having information as to her address or
death, communicate with THE PUBLIC
TRUSTEH, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
quoting the estate of Elizabeth Margaret
Kieman 1
THE
President
PROGRAMME
xt-
GLADYS MONCRIEFF
Hear “Our Glad” make a Good Neighbour Award each week-
help a promising young artist —and laugh with her at the delight-
ful humour of Lou Vernon’s “Luigi.” Popular personality David
Low, brilliant musicians Wilbur Kentwell and Glen Marks, and
a well-known guest artist are also featured in “The Gladys
Moncrieff Show” —the show with a heart!
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7LA
2HR - 3CV - 6WB - 6MD - 7HO
Every Monday Night 8.30
M asqmris broadcasting Service
Vis
AUSTRALIA’S
SWEETHEART
IN HER FIRST
REGULAR RADIO
PROGRAMME
SUNDRY SHOWS
Stage and Music
“Henry IV”
One might read the first part
of “Henry IV” many times over
without ever conceiving the
fascinating development of Hot-
spur as effected by Keith
Michell in the full and rich
production of the play by
Anthony Quayle, assisted by
Raymond Westwell, for the
Shakspeare Memorial Company
at Sydney Tivoli.
Michell’s Hotspur, lean, fiery,
and leaping at danger, dominated
the play; he contrived by turns
a stalking pride, an unresting
vitality and passionate, surging
rages that boiled up in him until
he stuttered $nd choked on his
words; he was so completely
and overwhelmingly convincing
that the character broadened out
to much more than the imprac-
tical hothead with which some
would dismiss him before pass-
ing on to Falstaff and the Prince.
Here, in fact, you have the
stuff of which heroes are,-made.
Hotspur obviously belongs to
that narrow band of people for
whom life can never be suffi-
cient ; the world is too small for
his nervous, leaping vigor, his
hot ferocity and his appetite
growing by the excitement it
feeds on. In Elizabethan times he
would probably have gone ad-
venturing among the Spaniards ;
more lately he would have died
in a Spitfire. He belongs among
those few who draw supreme
satisfaction from challenging
danger and death and who, in
the end, seem to find in death
the only answer to living.
Though it is more of a fulfil-
ment than a tragedy, a Hotspur’s
story—of action, excitement and
death—is every bit as inevitable
as that of a Hamlet or a Mac-
beth, gnd his actions spring so
surely and quickly from
character that it needs even less
appearance of outward motives
or circumstances to justify them.
Though they might neither
admit nor discern it, there is an
almost mystical quality about
the exalted altitudes at which
such people live and die, and, in
that respect, it was interesting
to note that, in the scene which
opposes the wild, druidical
Welshman, Glendower, to Hot-
spur, the spiritual bond between
them actually seems stronger
than their superficial hostility.
It was a pity that something
stronger than the pallid priggish-
ness of Terence Longdons
Prince Hal could not have been
set against Michell’s powerful
Hotspur. Much more spirit and
red-blooded enjoyment of living
would have improved most
aspects of the character and
risked none. As it was, Hotspur’s
death seemed like a bit of un-
believably good fortune for the
Prince, and the position of the
Scottish border an equally lucky
break for England.
A stronger Prince Hal might
also have been more useful to
Anthony Quayle’s Falstaff. Mr.
Quayle was a wondrous monu-
ment of padding and make-up,
and he wore his lines like gar-
ments ; he could also say justly
that he took the point of every
scene from Gad’s Hill to his
soliloquy on valor; yet there
was still something missing. Pos-
sibly the disguise smothered the
human being ; certainly the voice
and character needed to come
rumbling up from greater depths
and to bring with them stronger
accents of roguery, wit and
shrewdness. Those things were
there, but not in sufficient
strength to break down the larger
impression of buffoonery—one
result was that the mutilation of
Hotspur’s corpse seemed
curiously out of character when
it should be so completely the
other way.
Still, if it wasn’t a Falstaff as
richly magnificent as one dreams
of, it was a better Falstaff than
has been seen in these parts
within memory, and as good a
one as is likely to be seen for
many a year.
On which grounds criticism
seems rather uncharitable,
particularly when Mr. Quayle
carried, as well as the weight of
Falstaff, most of the produc-
tion. And what a production!
Shakspeare is as Shakspeare
should be —fast, vivid and,
above everything, alive; with
every current and cross-current
of thought admirably brought
out and every contrast made ;
the tragedy of Hotspur, the
drama of kings and princes and
the comedy of Falstaff each set
off against the other yet all
blended in the one richly satis-
fying performance.
❖ ♦>
Yi-Kwei Szi and Joseph Post
At Sydney Town Hall on
Saturday night the myth, kept
alive by the romantic novelists,
of the Oriental’s physiognomic
impassivity was shattered when
the Chinese bass sang with the
Sydney Orchestra under Joseph
Post two arias from Mous-
sorgsky’s “Boris Godounov”;
“I Have Attained the Highest
Power” and the Death Scene.
Yi-Kwei Szi has a rich, power-
ful bass, beautifully produced.
Though he doesn’t descend far
into the profundo regions, he
can take a head-note; in baritone
range, and that without seeming
effort.
This well-equipped organ he
brought to bear on music as in-
tensely dramatic as any in the
whole range of opera. By turns
snarling and pleading, raving
and praying, he portrayed the
dying usurper’s last minutes
with gripping intensity and mag-
nificent tone, and across his face
swept each succeeding emotion,
until at the end of the final aria
he was emotionally almost
wrung-out. It was the best bass
singing heard here since Kipnis.
The orchestra began proceed-
ings with a lively reading of
Prokofieff’s Classical Symphony,
that imitative work by one who
was later to do some strange
things to the diatonic scale.
Then came Scriabin’s “Poem of
Ecstasy,” which contains less of
poesy and ecstasy than frenzy.
There is no trace here of the
scholarly Scriabin of the noc-
turnes and the studies. It
is a Scriabin who apparently
had a hobnailed liver at the time
and took it out on the unfor-
tunate . Muse, though paradoxi-
cally his basic idea was to “ex-
press joy in creative effort.”
In Cesar Franck’s Symphony
in D Minor, the night’s major
work, Mr. Post was able to
evoke a sombre grandeur in the
first two movements, in which
the work of the English horn
was conspicuous. The brilliant
final movement was treated with
the utmost vigor, with climaxes
owing much to the brasses.
Patricia Church
The young Sydney mezzo-
soprano revealed in the well-
balanced programme she chose
for her Conservatorium recital
| that since she was heard last
year her voice has gained greater
flexibility without impairment to
quality, and that with easier
command of purely vocal techni-
calities has come a keener aware-
ness of a song’s inner worth.
Her gamut, too, has extended —
some of her high notes were
well into the range of the lyric-
soprano.
Miss Church’s improved
powers of interpretation were
quickly apparent in two Schu-
bert songs of great contrast. In
“Gretchen at the Spinning
Wheel” the undercurrent of sad-
ness and yearning was well con-
veyed ; in the lovely “To Be
Sung On the Waters” the joyous
lilt was nicely sustained. Yet
here, as elsewhere, the singer did
not call sufficiently upon her
face —and a very nice one, too
—to give help to the voice in
mirroring the moods and emo-
tions of the song.
“Knowest Thou the Land,”
from “Mignon,” was excellently
sung, and songs by Debussy and
Wolf lent added conviction that
a lively intellect was informing
her art. Joyce Hutchison was
the accompanist, and her work
in the two Schubert songs was
notable.
The assisting artist was Brian
Doyle, who displayed some
polished phrasing in the Brahms
B Minor Rhapsody.
AAA
V V V
Eugen Prokop
The new professor of violin
at Sydney Con. demonstrated at
his recital a clear strong tone,
bowing which, though facile,
lacks something in style, and a
technique which can stand up
to the demands of such a work
as the Debussy Sonata, a show-
piece concerned chiefly with
exploiting every trick of violin-
playing. In this Mr. Prokop
obviously revelled, maintaining
admirable clarity at the highest
speeds of the opening and closing
movements.
An interesting work he intro-
duced was the Sonata in G
Major, a work by Bach dis-
covered as recently as 25 years
ago in a private collection. It
is in the unmistakable Bach
style, the piano taking the place
of the original clavier for the
figured bass.
Mozart’s Sonata No. 6 —a
work not in that master’s most
engaging vein—and the Con-
certo Op. 82 of Glazounov, to
the Andante of which Mr.
Prokop brought G-string playing
of fine merit, completed the
quartet of full-size works, in
which Olga Krasnik collaborated
at the piano quite successfully.
♦> ♦♦♦ ❖
“The Vigil”
The Brisbane Repertory
Theatre presentation of Ladislas
JFodor’s play “The Vigil” ex-
emplified how well a significant
theme can be uprooted from its
historical setting and repre-
sented in a modern one. In an
ordinary court-room, that of
every man’s mind, a gardener is 1
on trial for the alleged removal
of a body from a tomb. One by
one the modern Magdalen,
Pilate, Mr. Joseph of Arimathea,
and the others appear for ques-
tioning by prosecutor and de-
fence for their part in the
alleged theft. The playwright
makes no direct statement of the
verdict, but the judge, addressing
the theatre audience, merely
asks “Members' of the jury, have
you considered your verdict?”
The modern setting is com-
pletely successful because noth-
ing of a historical or sentimental
nature is allowed to come be-
tween the “jury” and the facts.
Babette Stephens’s production
was particular enough to stress
the 20th-century urgent need for
a decision, but symbolic enough
to emphasise the timelessness of
the theme of the drama.
Rising above the excellent
teamwork of the entire cast
was the excellent performance
of Shirley Bushelle as Magdalen.
Of the legal members of the cast
only Kevin Gunn failed to make
the most of the impressive lines
given him.
Talkies
“Home at Seven”
Anatole de Grunewald has
wrought a smoothly-running
vehicle for the screen from the
play by R. C. Sheriff. Sir Ralph
Richardson, besides taking the
chief role, directed it, and in this
latter task he is not as authorita-
tive as when acting. There are
times when the action is .allowed
to become too slow. Neverthe-
less, it makes most entertaining
fare.
A bank clerk returns home
at his usual hour to find his
wife almost in hysterics, and
it transpires this is caused by his
failure to return home from work
the previous night—the lost 24
hours he cannot account for,
his memory having lapsed
through worry. A theft and a
murder occur under circum-
stances which render him a sus-
pect, and the parallel develop-
ment of the two themes is
worked out with conviction and
logic.
Richardson has one of those
roles which he, relishes —slightly
harassed, but always calm of
manner and deliberate of speech.
He gets his effects without bene-
fit of gesture, but his sincerity is
always communicable. Mar-
garet Leighton’s portrayal of a
wife who is close to a break-
down with worry over her hus-
band matches Richardson’s
work for sheer conviction, and
nothing is finer than her gradual
transition to normal routine
after the flood of her pent-up
emotions is spent following his
safe return. The family doctor
and polite inspector from the
Yard are handled respectively
by Jack Hawkins and Campbell
Singer. At Sydney Embassy.
❖ ♦♦♦
‘‘Lure of the Wilderness”
This remake of “Swamp
Water” is set in the Okefenokee
Swamp of the U.S. deep south,
and is a debilitated reflection of
the original. There is an air
of unreality about the story, that
of a man who takes to the swamp
with his small daughter when he
is falsely accused of murder,
and lives for eight years among
the alligators and snakes. But
it gives Hollywood the heaven-
sent opportunity to display a
teenager as a “wild” girl, and
to send into the swamp after his
lost dog a strong-jawed young
man. Of course at first she
wants to skewer him on sight,
but her dad prevents it; which
is a pity—it would have been a
just fate for one who makes
such a hash of acting. A few
pythons and ’gators glide around
innocuously, and Dad refuses to
be planted even after a deadly
snake gets him on the temple as
he stupidly bends down to drink
at a pool at dusk. Walter Bren-
nan does his best, but it’s heavy
going. Jean Peters and Jeff
Hunter keep the flag of luv fly-
ing. At Sydney Plaza.


HARLEQUINADE
by ETHEL ANDERSON
IT was a day of unparalleled
sunshine. Spring, Summer,
Autumn and Winter had
met, it seemed, for a pro-
miscuous dance of the happiest
hours in the year 1857. Oranges
ripened in the orchards, in the
vineyards grapes voiced their
promise of warmth and cheer,
white sheep nibbled the grass on
every hill, cattle roamed the pas-
tures, nursery-gardens flourished
as never before* the borders in
every cottage rivalled the storied
wealth of the Hesperides, every
bird was busy, and the Parra-
matta and District Royal Horti-
cultural Show was in full swing.
People for miles around had
flocked into town.
In addition to the inhabitants
of Parramatta and the local vil-
lages the whole population of
Dural, Hornsby Junction, Mal-
low’s Marsh, Gander’s Pond,
Doggett’s Patch and even Little
Peeping by the Inlet was packed
as tightly as eggs in a cod’s roe
into the yellow marquee in
which a dazzling display of fruit,
flora and gigantic vegetables was
up for judgment.
These last-named exhibits
were mostly pumpkins, marrows,
water-melons and cabbages, and
though a tray of rainbow-toned
mangel-wurzels, as big as foot-
balls, held pride of place, trite
turnips and carrots, immaterial
lettuces and the first bundles of
asparagus to be grown south of
the equator lent variety and color
to the stand. The newfangled
tomatoes, which, when they had
been called “love-apples” had
been vetoed as poisonous, made
a primal, dubious appearance,
but were hardly considered
human food. They made a shy
showing labelled Give them to
your poultry.
e hokey-pokey man had
trundled his gondola all the way
from Balmain, from the capital
itself, a sure sign of the import-
ance of the occasion. With its
polished brass standards twisted
like sticks of barley-sugar sup-
porting the gayest of awnings, the
gondola was backed into a posi-
tion just outside the tent-flap ;
children were swarming over it,
while the Italian proprietor
warbled tunefully “Hokey-
pokey ! Penny-a-lick!”
CIR JEREMIAH WILLING-
TOPER, the Governor of
New South Wales, was unfor-
tunately away reviewing the
Sydney Volunteer —just one —in
Hyde Park, but to the satisfac-
tion of everyone except her own
relations, Lady Willing-Toper,
who during her two years in
office had greatly endeared her-
self to the populace, was to open
the Show and make a short
speech.
True, the Wirraways, Mc-
Crees, Boisragons, McMurthies,
Phantoms and Thistledews
trembled in their neat babouches
and elastic-sided prunellas, for
“Corporal Cora,” as she was
called in the family (she had
been born Cora Thistledew, of
Gander’s Pond) was so tactless
that it was impossible to guess
what she would say next ; but
who were these people compared
with the teeming citizens of a
growing colony? Who, indeed!
What a crowd there was!
The countrymen, in their
Nankin breeches and woolly
beaver hats, their beards —frizzy
black, crinkled gold, flowing
chestnut —brushed and pomaded
till they shone, wore, as often as
not, blue or unbleached-linen
smocks, with bandana handker-
chiefs round their necks and
gold and silver earrings in their
ears. They were as brightly
bedizened as the women; more
so, really, for the colors being
worn at the moment were sub-
dued ladylike tints of lilac, dove-
grey lavender or white, and
though each poke- or coals Cuttl-
bonnet had under its brim a
wreath of artificial flowers, these
adornments did not show from
the back. It was too hot to wear
a Paisley shawl or even a Kash-
mir ring-wallah. Every lady
carried a fan. Waist-long gossa-
mers floated from every bonnet,
Dolly-Varden or pork-pie hat.
As for the dandies, the
Merinos, the exquisites!
The young gentlemen of
Parramatta, which gave itself
the airs of a capital city, were
indeed the glass of fashion and
the mould of form. Oh, abso-
lutely! They had such glossy
curls, such sparkling sapphire
and ruby rings, such tailored
waists—as slender as a girl’s!
They displayed such flexible hips,
such wide shoulders and adven-
turous chests! As for their
mutton-chops, their feathery
Lord Dundrearies, their
yellow kid button - boots
and thick gold watch-chains!
Oh! Even Sydney itself, on a
gala day, scarcely rivalled them.
And they were so handsome,
too; not merely mannikins;
many of them had but lately
returned from enduring the in-
credible hardships and horrors
of the never-to-be-forgotten
battles of the Crimean War.
The young ensigns and cap-
tains of the Fighting Fortieth,
then passing through Sydney on
their way to quell some sort of
mutiny in India, were in full
regimentals. They quite out-
shone the late-flowering auri-
culars on dear old Mr. Phineas
McCree’s table (he was now
ninety-nine and restricted to
work only in a glasshouse).
Compared with the sunburnt
stalwarts of Parramatta, how
blond were the English soldiers!
One of them, squiring Gussie
Thistledew, was heard to say “I
don’t, my dear, care a Joey for
the wild beasts of Bengal or the
wild men, either, but I am really
terrified that in that climate I
might freckle.”
A RRANGEMENTS were per-
feet.
His Worship the Mayor of
Parramatta himself had super-
intended all details.
Three trestle-tables, a few
feet apart, ran right from the
small raised platform to the tent-
flap. These carried the exhibits.
Flowers were on the left, fruit
and ferns on the central panel,
and vegetables on the right.
It was easy to see that ferns
were a favored hobby, and that
daisies, geraniums, pelargoniums,
auriculars (late-flowering and
grown under glass) and fuchsias
were the fashionable flowers. Of
course, the show of camellias
was outstanding. Dr. Boisragon
had even managed to coax a few
final flowers from the almost
legendary “Countess of Orkney,”
with its raspberry petals striped
pink and white. It was much
admired. Everyone admired,
too, Mrs. (Peter) Boisragon’s
collection of gillyflowers, which
included among six named
varieties “Master Tuggie, His
Princess,” reputed to have been
brought out by Mrs. Macquarie,
and a “Red Halo,” an equally
rare pink.
“With two sets of twins in the
nursery, I wonder that dear
Georgiana Boisragon has time
for gardening.”
“And of course she has the
care of the three delicate step-
children.”
“I consider that young Mrs.
Phantom’s ‘Marvels of Peru’
are much more stylish.”
“Dr. Phantom has a small
exhibit of goarina-eggs.”
‘Ts it wise to leave them so
long in that sunny corner?”
Victoria McMurthie and her
cousin Bathsheba Wirraway, on
the arms of two personable
young sailors from Captain Mc-
Murthie’s brig (of forty tons)
the Rose, just returned from
Liverpool via Rio de Janiero,
commenting on this rare clutch
of eggs, stopped to curtsey to
Mrs. Wirraway and Mrs. Mc-
Cree, who were watching Hiram
Thripp (who was simple) and
his mother (who was not) out of
the corner of an eye as it were;
this mysterious pair were paying
a great deal of attention to a
mammoth water-melon, and the
ladies were wondering why.
VICTORIA’S jetty, expres-
sionless eyes had their usual
air of being black-currants or
boot-buttons, but her sensitive
mouth held the tremulous
promise of spring, and she, with
her cousin, Bathsheba, the
blonde of all blondes, with a
sweetly silly expression that
went straight to the heart of
every male observer, was being
observed with even more atten-
tion than the Thripps by the
two sailors. Poor boys! They
knew that the two vivid young
faces would presently, a memory
only, blot out the Pacific, the
Spice Islands, the clouds, the
stars; that Bathsheba’s blue
eyes would condemn the
Arafura Sea; and with infatu-
ated eyes they gazed and gazed,
(Continued on page 22)
In the Big Depression
By Ronald McCuaig
It was in the big Depression
In 1932.
We’d had an all-night session
And were wondering what to do.
I said to Jack, “We mustn’t stop;
A hair of the dog would do us good;
So we’d better push off to the butcher-shop
Of my cousin George in Chesterwood.”
It was in the big Depression,
A terrible time for me and you.
It was in the big Depression,
In 1932.
We walked the couple of stations
Beside the railway-line
Past singing congregations
Clear in the still sunshine,
And gaps in fences round about
Showed how severe the winter was,
Where people were knocking their palings
out
To burn instead of power and gas.
We found George entertaining
As usual, in the shop.
“There’s not a lot remaining,”
He said, “but still, a drop.”
He had a pair of cronies there;
The district member of Parliament.
Laying down law and putting down beer
With a bookmaker-friend, an S.P. gent.
George pointed to his cooler,
And through the open door
I saw two bottles, full, there,
And not a damn thing more—
No meat to greet the Monday trade;
He had no need to tell me, then:
Too many customers hadn’t paid.
And George was out on his ear again.
George was a first-rate butcher
And honest to the ounce
But he trusted in the future
Of perjured past accounts.
He hadn’t the knack of saying “No”
In the way the housewives could see the
point,
So instead of them, he had to go
As he’d gone before-'—without his joint.
Some would have called it tragic
But George could take a knock.
He joined us chopping logic
Around his chopping-block.
The Member held that Lang was Right.
The Bookmaker said, “We can’t tell, yet.
There’s people would back him that black
was white.
But it’s only dole-tickets they've got to
bet.”
And while we stood there talking
The door flew open wide
And a fellow came in, stalking
Straight to George’s side.
“Hear about Joe?” the fellow said.
The way he said it, said it all.
George put his glass down. “Joe, eh?
Dead.
When are they having the funeral?”
Well, Joe’ s and George’s poppas
Were neighbors in their day.
George said, “We took on coppers
As kids, down Redfern way.
I’d like to go and see him off;
We can use my car—there’ll be plenty
of room;
You can tell his friends there’ll be seats
enough
For three or four more if they’d like to
come.”
All this was on the Sunday.
And later on I heard
George filled his car on the Monday
To see this Joe interred.
They followed the funeral right to the
grave,
Saw the service, and then hared back
With the terrible dry throats mourners have
To the local pub, to hold the wake.
They had almost drowned their sorrow
By the late afternoon.
But the cash they had or could borrow
Ran out a little too soon;
And as they reluctantly pushed and shoved
Out of the pub, what should they see
But a fellow had George’s motor moved
Over against his butchery.
He wasn’t a traffic-transgressor
Joyriding in George’s sedan;
He was only the Repossessor
On the Time-payment Plan.
He had some papers for George to sign
Before he could take the car and go;
And George had his pen on the dotted line
When he stopped and said, “Now, half
a mo ...”
Said George: “I’m resigned to losing
A business, car and friend.
Some things are past our choosing.
And all good things must end;
But one thing still remains. I’d say,
More my own than cash-in-the-bank:
Something I dare you to take away
What about what’s in the petrol tank?”
When all the mourners crowded
Around to back the claim
The T.P. man allowed it
I guess I’d have,done the same.
He plumbed the tank with a length of stick
And said, “I make it about nine bob.”
And one of the mob said, “That’s a bit
thick-
Who do you think you’re trying to rob?”
The T.P. man was unwilling
To put it to a vote,
Or argue about a shilling,.
So he gave George half-a-note.
Then George appended his signature;
The fellow got in and drove off with the
car; .
\nd George said, “Anyone down a few
more?”
And they all trooped after him into the
bar.
It was in the big Depression,
A terrible time for me and you.
It was in the big Depression,
In 1932.


Introducing the most amazingly versatile piece of workshop machinery ever invented. , The “Woodmachinco Wonder Bench” that
d<ses a thousand and one jobs and makes hard work easy. Simple to use. No special instruction needed. Can be driven off 32-volt
Generator Set, ordinary house lighting, or any petrol motor. Completely portable.
THE "WOODMACHINCO"
WONDER BENCH
let us quote you for 32 volt or other voltage motors
A
>
s
'tn
Mp- >.—Shows "Woodmachinco Wonder Bench" (CI3) complete
vvith lOin. saw, boring table, electric lead, switch, half H.P. single
phase motor (works off any ironing point). Price £7O/10/-,
FiO.R., F. 0.8., Brisbane. Fitted with 1 H.P. petrol motor.
£33/10/-extra. Will also take 14in. saw and 2 H.P. motor.
(Insert shows the petrol motor fitted, making the outfit com-
pletely portable and independent of electric supply).
r*
No. TO.—Those kitchen unit
aoors, quickly, accurately
moulded and rebated in one
simple operation. Say good-bye
to old methods, hand mou'ding
planes, etc.
16 Using the "Wood-
machinco" Dovetailing Attach-
ment on kffchen unit drawers.
Adds qua'ity and strength to
your job.
No. 22.—For all those interior
jobs where fine, accurate sawing
and c'ean smooth finish are
essential, let the "Wood-
machinco Wonder Bench' do it
for you.
i.
Jo. 11 .—Sanding Plates (useq
on Z arbour) give smooth,
square, accurate finish on ends.
Brings up grain for varnishing.
■Also use Sanding Plate for' neat,
accurate fitting of parts.
No. 17.—Profile cutting. With
The "WoTlder Bench” laid on
side, and using an impromptu
platform and a -Jin. morticing
(router) bit. Handles all boards
up to 1 inch.
Nb. 23.—Mr. Orchardist, your
fruit case problems are over.
No more loss because of fruit
going bad waiting for cases.
Fruit cases arc made quickly,
easily and accurately.'
No. 2 shows the quick and
simple change from sawing to
planing. Both saw and planer
srotected. Change from sawing
:o planing in lOsecs. Both
alaner tables rise tend fall.
No. 6.—Using the Z arbour
and emery wheel for sharpening
axe. All hand tools, etc.,
speedily sharpened. Make your
own moulding cutters on these
emery wheels.
■
k
No. \ 2"—landing bobbin used
in place of planer head puts
glass smooth finish on all ob-
stinate, cross grain timbers. Also
sands saw marks from curved
surfaces. (See insert).
- f ■
No. 18.—For that garage or
workshop you have wanted for
so long. Build it yourself. Don’t
wait any longer. It’s easy with
the “Wonder Bench" to do all
the really hard work for you.
No. 24.—Firewood! Yes, stacks
of it. The eternal problem of
the farmer’s housewife is now
solved. Cut enough firewood
in one day to last a year on
the “Wonder Bench.”
No. 3.—T. & G. Flooring easily
made. All mouldings (see page
3) simply made this easy way.
We will make any design joinery
moulding cufter to order. Send
sample.
ll
No. 7.—'All bevel cutting simply-
done. Bevel box easily made
Once jig box is made all bevels
then finished accurately. Cannot
alter, must be identical to last
bevel-cut.
No. 13.—Using the morticing
(router) bit on boring table. All
slots, mortices, grooves, chan-
nels, etc.', ' speedily, efficiently
cut. No more hand chiseling, no
key-hole sawing.
.■ -
No. 19—Thaf extra roc
your house. Don’t pay a
ous price for it. Bui'd it
ous price
self. Have that spare
next time relative* or
visit you.
No. 25.—fencing battens are no
longer a problem. Cut all you
require from mill ends, and sell
any surplus to your neighbours.
"Woodmachinco Wonder Bench’’
Is indispensible.
No. 4.—Any size ply. or any
length timber can be handled.
No limit to length or area. Don’t
break your back with a hand-
saw. Live longer. Let the
‘‘Wonder Bench" work for you.
No. B.—Mr. Woodworker, stop
sweating over your hand rip
saw NOW. Cut all your cover
strips, door stops, noggings, fill-
ing in strips, etc., this effortless
way. Add years to your life.
SHOWING COMPLETE, SECTIONS OF
i/' C. T
5
FRONT TASLE
LOWERED FOR DEPTH OF CUT i
No. 14.—A1l ; ig it tennons cul
this way. Heavy tennons are
cut on tjje moulding head, using
special tennori or trenching
knives. Finish building yout
bouse in half the time.
Mo. 20.—Mr. Apiarisi: Next time
your bees swarm, have those
extra hives ready, and they will
cost so little if you make them
yourself on the "Woodmachinco
Wonder Bench.
> No. 26.—For those repair jobs,
i and hard to cut shapes, for
I wooden parts for agricultural
implements, waggons, etc., The
’ “Woodmachinco Wonder Bench"
is ij'idispensible
No. s.—Rebates for hinges,
sash fittings, etc-. quickly, ac-
curately cut this way. No ef-
fort, no delay. Use saw box for
fence. Lower front table for
any depth cut.
ppr
r
No. 9.—Drill ail your dowel
holes this way. Discard your
brace and bit. The “Wonder
Bench” drills holes quickly, ac-
curately. and with no effort. No
more crooked holes.
UNEVEN £NO OF EXTENSION TABL £
TIMBEP DOCKED SHOWING SMALL WHEELS
o££ TO SQUAPC ro CAPPYEXTAA^Pt
wei&ir of ions'
r*iß£&
BLOCK NAILED/N
ANY POSITION
OET£PMIN£S
LBNGTHOF
TIMBEP
TO PC DOCKED
SHOE PIECES BOLTED
UNDEPNEATH DOCKING .
table pap all el hath _
NT AIN BENCA TOP KEEP SAN CUT SQUARE
No. 15. —This set up will dock
20 times studs as a
man with a handsaw, and the
operator will not feel half as
tired at the end of the day-
"
:V-‘
niilisil
Mo. 21.—The "Woodmachinco
bonder Bench" can be driverv
>ff any line shaft, stationary
sngine, or, in fact, any power
jnit that has a revolving wheel
n shaft.
10. 27.—For that new fowl
ouse, or pig sty, get it started
nd finish it 4n half the time,
nd only use. a half of the
nergy with the “Woodmachinco
/onder Bench.**
AND NOW ... Read this ASTOUNDING FREE OFFER
“Woodmachinco” actually “gives away” a precision made “Wood-turning
Lathe Set,” value (catalogue price) £37/10/-, absolutely FREE to all
purchasers, on the form below, in the month of May, 1953.
SPECIAL OFFER No. 19
Free to You (with every “Wonder Bench” Purchased on this
Offer Form in May, 1953)
THE WOODMACHINCO E A
hEADSTOCK & TAILSTOCK
01 ASSEMBLY set
This £37/10/*
£.A. WOODTURNING LATHE SET
ABSOLUTELY FREE TO YOU !
-.This Special Offer and Order Form,
is sc arate from, and is not to be associated
with *any other “Special Order Form" ottered
elsewhere by us.
EA Spsci*fkattonT° Threacted Faceplate. 7tin. diameter, fin. Hollow Spindle in both heao
and tailstock. Headstock Spindle Ballrace mounted with provision for emery stone at rear. A
ctmnn ttnrflilv constructed unit built for commercial use. Swings 18m. in gap, takes any
fength between centres. No 2 Morse Taper Driving Dog and Non-split Centre fitted. Pulleys
three cone A ff is made t 0 mtroduce our woodworking units to your District and
once the quota of E.A. Lathes allotted under this introductory scheme has been distributed.
thCn if ' to b secu S re' n one of these practical, efficient and accurately made machines
free, be well advised and act promptly, as you can readily understand we cannot keep this
offer open indefinitely.
Fill In the form below NOW, and got your FREE E.A. WOODTURNING OUTFIT whrt*
they last. m .
The "EA” Lathe set will be given free only on receipt of the Order Form No. tv. ana
no free E.A. Lathe orders will be recognised unless ordered on this form.
SPECIAL OFFER FORM No. 19
To “WOODMACHINCO." Grey Street, South Brisbane, Q.
Dear Sirs, _ _ . ,
Enclosed herewith Is Cheque. P.O. Money Order, Bank Draft, or Cash for the sum or
£7O/10/- as payment in full for one only “WOODMACHINCO” WONDER BENCH, as illustrated
at top left (No. 1), complete with half H.P. 240 V. motor, switch, lead, lOin, saw. planer
blades, and drilling table, all readv to plug in and use. . . , .. . .
1 understand these Units are in faultless condition, and will be forwarded immediately.
v ALSO to be delivered with the “WONDERBENCH,” absolutely FREE of all cost to me.
F.O R.. F. 0.8., Brisbane. ONE ONLY E.A. LATHE OUTFIT, in 'perfect order as listed in your
catalogue and illustrated hereon. _ . . . , , „ . ,
In return for your giving me this E.A. LATHE OUTFIT complete, and free of alt cost, 1
undertake to tell my friends of your woodworking outfits, and wherever possible, contact
other woodworkers, and do my best at all times to further the sales of your woodworking
outfits in my District.
Signed *
Address ,om State.... ;
‘WOODMACHINCO.” 102 Grey St.. Sth.*Brisbane. Q. Phone J 171$
(Note: For the sum of £5/10/- extra "Woodmachino” will pack this “Wonder Bench” and Lathe Outfit in strong boxes and insure same, and pay freight to
all capital cities in Australia. Freight to Tasmania and Darwin £l extra.)
For your next vacation come to Sunny Queensland., the State with the best climate in the World. It’s Summer all the Winter in beautiful Queensland .


Wetynda/
/<?s£
WticJte//' & &. A>ty j&A,-
7?O. JAeeic J2o .
AdvATdAay. 67- A/.
JPeap t 9
AAflity sd&zccu? dAAz,
Uc Aez&J <rzc ~dt&zp£y AU*cJ ,J?
dfecedAeoA At? A*ccy <z 7j?€o 2>aAz%-
<J? AdU& JOddc/ A^OiAd
/SoAp aAA AAddC C€UC Azs A&Up&A, A? OtterrtCOy&C COCCctd,
fe'&d ojp€tyaAZd*L, #^7&{<&£ dd<yoe?fAost£ a£&
A/ul Aozy Ad j?ecdAf /?coA&/ eye? eztttf ?&&&/ eA^AzetdA,
cyf Aecto? AezdA&A duccA f'adedfedA. AAjz dUedA
dj f'otA&de/ AAjl, Aadk eAcdAzu/
edc AAod AoA&J jfyouc tAcc ApAb AAaAty addes
j'gAAdAjzdt sdCAAcA. •
TAjd /iecA~ a/? AaAed ez S/C. d/AedtyoeJ cot<c-
/dfeddeo? rfAouc rfd>t?Jt, dec a A?Jz cfoyd?, A)
erf? gApAdt dec #- efro/?. VAud dtcSodJ <z£?
tAud. dteodA, dtufy AAjz, AAAzeseA A?y dt??oddtA
O&AjZ%; AAoAjzJcJ, duAdecA AAd€(L. odc£y etdae of' Aok> sdtJaAAcd
dzA~ ez AlAtce^ .
cAt AAjC, AocoA, Aodti&p AcKcdef'drzddd/? AAxc&dC.siey Auzy -
didee/ AdAzd/ Jof' 4 9&&ee>eeA aAz,
yd>oedc£f dtt Add —
" yAjz Aoy edf AdU&edchzderfdteucA A&d/ed
peeo&Ay dAezt etc AAce. ddeu/ote zAdte&A dlfdeafis. A>aAzd. . «
"TAjz e/eAfetoeete, AApAdAy/racAedA l %AAs dc/epe. cerA?f
dAfeno?A<rtd/'esedA deetfy Add^Afecoeaig e^AAjdAj&Aapc'.'
AAjd AodeJ dA&</ dAarftfi. yjA fnde? eto*ded Adfefci
i dfA& AoAd edMd (Ae fr?* 6
da?A> aAetddd^oeA.
C7etAy $ d?€cA&7ii<dCodcp dff' AAcjl,
Ahdo dAod&ff AcadC- d2£&ee tk^dCeotceeA, Audf cA d^dcdAT<=A
A/2dd> codddysod/ A? f'etts Aodt? oe>&yd?<jz/zAy
#/ ad£, ddcdAc Secy AjdAo 3aAe%. ,
AC
/ d /*^A?dY O/ .
(signed) dA'AyAcc£djzdt>' *
Your ALLIS-CHALMERS dealer is
N.S.W.: Mitchell Shearer Farm Machinery Pty. Ltd., George Street. Horaebush.
VICTORIA; Mitchell & Co. Pty. Ltd., Footscray, Victoria. S. AUST.: John
Shearer & Sons Limited, Kilkenny. W. AUST:: Westralian Farmers Co-operative
Ltd., Perth. QUEENSLAND: Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd., Brisbane.
TASMANIA: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart. NEW GUINEA; Tutt-Bryant
Ltd., Port Moresby.
determined to lose no nuance,
no perfect detail. Yet they had
been warned against the perils
of the deep.
“Mr. Guerdon, the under-
taker, not his brother, Mr.
George Guerdon, the butcher,
has sent in an excellent bottle
of strawberries.” Sophia Thistle-
dew loomed up out of the press,
her lips stained red, “Such de-
licious berries —do taste!”
“Ah, well!” Mrs. Wirra-
way’s fingers hovered. “Per-
haps one would not be missed.”
Mrs. Wirraway was tempted ;
Mrs. McCree took three.
“Straw is no object to Mr.
Guerdon. It’s in great demand,
and all he has sold he carts,
afterwards, away. As I drove
down the High-street just now
there was either straw or tannin-
bark laid down before no fewer
than four houses—four! In one
street! ”
“Young Mrs. Wirraway,
young Mrs. Phantom, Mrs.
Peter Boisragon and dear Juliet
are all expecting, and they have
such devoted husbands that
nothing is begrudged them.”
“I never knew Peter Bois-
ragon lay down straw for any
of poor Letty’s confinements.”
“He does pamper Georgina,
Yes. But, truly, my dear, the
noise increases. The thunder
of the traffic gets worse and
worse.”
“Indeed yes! Dr. Phantom’s
cabriolet does clatter so now
that he drives tandem. Dr.
Boisragon’s Hyde Park is the
worse for wear these days ; it
jingles along, jingles along!
After they had both passed pie
farmer Truscott lumbered by
with a wagon-load of hay for
the Governor’s stables. Oh, we
are quite a metropolis from the
noise of the traffic, if nothing
else. Sophia!” Mrs. Wirraway
broke off to exclaim in shocked
tones, “ Not another strawberry !
You’ll leave none!”
“I’ve only eaten two and
nibbled five. As honorary sec-
retary to the ferns section I de-
serve some perquisites! Take
another?”
“Thank you.” Mrs, McCree
took two.
“I have a conscience!”
“I forgot to mention that the
rectory buckboard from Mal-
low’s Marsh was jogging down
the High-street, too. Juliet will
be here by this.”
“Has she the family with
her?”
“Not all. Just five boys and
the baby. The elder girls and
the twins have the measles.”
“There is an idea getting
about that the measles may be
catching, as. the new phrase
goes.”
“What— not a heavenly visita-
tion? What profanity!” Mrs.
McCree was shocked.
Sophia Thistledew, however,
still lingered, sated, it appeared,
for she had replaced the bottle
of strawberries (bolstered up
with straw, the nibbled straw-
berries good-side out) on Mr.
Guerdon’s stand.
“Mrs. Thripp, the toll-
keeper’s wife,” Sophia observed,
“is what I call a comfortable
body. Her poor benighted son
carries a lanthorn wherever he
goes, and she takes it so
naturally—quite as a matter of
course.”
“What with that tasselled,
peaked cap and that tight Nor-
folk jacket, it’s hard to guess
whether Hiram Thripp is a
child dressed as a man or a man
disguised as a child.” Mrs.
Wirraway, her blue eyes fixed on
the Thripps, who were bending
closely over a magnificent wire
basket of hare’s-foot ferns and
maidenhair, rearranged her gos-
samer. “And that peering look
while he holds the lanthorn right
against one’s nose! It’s unnerv-
ing, quite!”
“Yes, indeed. The lanthorn
might be a pipe or a malacca-
cane, his mother * bows so
casually to his right to carry it,
in *broad daylight, through the
streets of Parramatta.”
A/fRS. McCREE retouched a
sprig of carraway at her
table where six bouquets of
herbs were arranged in unstop-
pered attar-of-rose bottles that
still held in them dried traces
of attar.
“Mrs. Thripp sees to it, I’m
thankful to notice, that, today,
her son is not a danger to the
community. He carries a hurri-
cane-lamp. Anything else in
this huge, inflammable tent
would be so risky.”
“The boy’s temper is notor-
iously uncertain. He set fire to
Mrs. Gamp’s henhouse when
she refused him the duckling he
asked for.”
“Is this your exhibit. Aunt
Jessie?”
“Yes, Sophia, dear.” Mrs.
McCree explained: “It’s my
entry for the first prize for six
pot- or medicinal-herbs. They
were hard to come by, I assure
you.”
“It’s quite a masterpiece.
Dill, carraway, balsam, fennel,
angelica and even mint!”
“That’s Patience Boisragon’s
next mine. She has bergamot,
lavender, sweet-cicily, cost-
mary, chives and sandwort. But
that’s not a herb —it’s a kind of
minium, so I think I am certain
of the award.”
“Oh, bother! Hiram and his
mother are descending on it—
let’s escape.”
“Too late,” Mrs. McCree
smiled kindly. “Good afternoon,
Mrs. Thripp, good afternoon,
Hiram. I see your exhibit is
next mine.”
“Yes. Them’s Hiram’s.
stuck in beer-
bottles. All he could get, poor
lad.”
Peering in his half-witted way,
Hiram, as was his custom, held
up his lantern and scanned
each face in turn. He then put
the lamp down on the grass—
the tent was pitched in Farmer
Best’s paddock—and taking all
Mrs. McCree’s herbs in his
large, fleshy hands, he re-
arranged them in their own
bottles on his stand.
“Them’s mine now!” he
mumbled in his thick blurred
utterance. “Them’s a lovely
prize-winner, surely.”
His queer face, with its half-
shut eyes and too red cheeks,
mapped with their purply veins,
showed a furtive satisfaction.
“Tell your son to put back
my herbs this instant!”
Mrs. McCree spoke crisply.
“Ah, don’t bother the poor
lad, ma’am. Ts temper is
awful when it’s aroused. I never
thwarts ’im myself, never. It
don’t do. If you’ll please to
believe it, ma’am, ’e’s best left
to do as ’e likes, like.”
Never had Mrs. Thripp better
deserved the designation “a
comfortable body.” She was
richly soothing in tone and
manner.
“But they are my herbs—l
grew them!”
“Now, now, ma’am, don’t start
a'scene, I begs of you. Look
’ow ’appy the dear creature is.”
“Start a scene! Me!” Mrs.
McCree was indignant.
“Come back and replace them
when Hiram’s moved away,”
Mrs. Wirraway whispered ner-
vously.
“Ah, well!” Mrs. McCree
shrugged her thin but elegant
shoulders ; her pelisse was new.
“Never mind. Let the afflicted
Hiram have them. The judges
have already praised them' to
me.”
TT was easy to suffer themselves
to be carried forward by the
hdmming and surging crowd,
since at that moment the arrival
of the vice-regal party was
announced. The town band
played a popular air as Lady
Willing-Toper, led by the Lord
Mayor, made her way to the
dais. She was received by the
most loyal demonstrations of
welcome, for during her two
years in office she had greatly
endeared herself to the popu-
lace.
Lady Willing-Toper had
brought with her the house-party
she had invited to stay at Gov-
ernment House for the event.
Both the admiral, Sir Jason
Popham, and the general, Sir
David Ochterloney, Com-
mander-in-Chief, Madras, who
were merely passing through
Sydney on their way to their
respective stations (Sir Jason
commanded the China station),
wore the full uniform of their
rank and were covered with a
perfect herbaceous border of
medals and decorations. They
looked magnificent and utterly
formidable, yet, when seated be-
tween them On the platform,
which was gay with flags and
ferns, “Corporal Cora,” true to
type, had soon brought them
down, as one might say, with a
right and left barrel.
To the general she remarked,
while complacently admiring the
bouquet of buttercups and
daisies presented to her on be-
half of the Loyal Daughters of
Parramatta —there was an idea
that she had simple tastes —by
the Lord Mayor’s little girl: “I
know you realise as well as I do,
Sir David, that nowadays the
English Army is made up of the
rag-tag-and-bobtail of the
nation. As I’m sure you’ll agree,
too, those poor creatures below
us, for instance, the ensigns of
the Fortieth, are weeds, merely
weeds! Look at their wretched
physique! They are quite incap-
able, one sees at once, of lasting
through a brush with the enemy,
let alone of enduring the fatigues
and hardships of a long pitched-
battle! Why, I shouldn’t think
that white-faced little creature,,
just on your left, with a cap-
tain’s three stars, too, and
weighed- town by the weight of
his own helmet, could run ten
yards!”
“The History of the Penin-
sula, ma’am, will tell you some-
thing of the Fighting Fortieth,
We don’t ask our soldiers to
run.”
Sir David’s tone was dry.
Lady Willing-Toper gave a
merry laugh.
“But run they do! Consider
Corunna! You must get his
Excellency to tell you something
of the storming of Seringapatam
and the battle of Condore. Ah,
in his fighting days there were
heroes indeed!”
CTR DAVID’S answer was to
rise, bow to his toes with
great ceremony and say coldly
“I fear I am keeping some of
the local worthies from their
place of honor beside you. I’ll
call his Worship to take my
seat.”
This he did, and sat himself
down, fuming with rage, at the
back of the platform.
“What nice manners Sir David
has,” Lady Willing - Toper
murmured to Sir Jason Popham,
who, covertly amused, was seated
on her right. “And that reminds
me! I have a little compliment
to pay you, Admiral! The
Navy usually knows such impos-
sible people, as I am certain you
will be the first to admit, and I
was on this account more than
pleased when Sir Jeremiah and
I dined on board your flagship
with you, to notice what respect-
able friends you seem to have.
The subjects of the daguerro-
types and chalk drawings that
adorn the walls of your cabin
are quite the kind of people one
would know oneself. I do,
honestly, congratulate you on the
appearance of most of your
acquaintance. In the Navy one
so seldom meets a gentleman.”
Lady Willing-Toper was in no
wise disconcerted when the
admiral rose and with the stillest
of two fingers saluted her, saying
in icy tones “I am afraid I rather
monopolise your Excellency! I
will send one of the aldermen to
take my place.”
Sir Jason Popham, K.C.M.G.,
K.C.8., Order of St. Stanislas
(with swords) —and so on, and
so much—white with anger,
joined Sir David at the back of
the dais.
“Such a considerate man, Sir
Jason! ” Lady Willing-Toper
told the alderman who took his
place and who was, in fact, Mr.
Guerdon, the undertaker. “He
quite realised that it is more of
a treat to a humble person like
you to sit next a lady, than it is
. to him.”
“I usually edges ’em along, feet
first!” Mr. Guerdon remarked
with a hearty laugh, in which
“Corporal Cora” joined: she
dearly loved a good joke.
TirERE the Mayor rose,
twitched his gown, set his
cocked hat at a gallant angle,
and, conscious of his chain and
a new ruby ring, launched out
into a speech.
He welcomed the Governor’s
wife in a few well-chosen words
' and, taking the audience com-
pletely into his confidence,
asserted that she was the best
customer the Parramatta trades-
people had ever had, “and pays
on the nail.”
This greatly pleased Lady
Willing-Toper, who liked an
artless tribute.
He told, next, of his early
struggles, of the birth of his
daughter, “the greatest event in
my life, and of my good lady
herself,” and gave anecdotes of
her genius. He welcomed the
general and the admiral, and
called for three cheers, which
were heartily given. He extended
the hand of brotherhood to the
heroes returned from the
Crimea:
“No one is more sorry than
the Lady Mayoress and me to
see so many of you out of work
and begging for a few pence.”
Here, to lighten a sad subject,
a gleam of wintry humor flitted
over his Worship’s nobby face
. “But I deplore the new oaths
these gentlemen have brought
back with them. It’s Sucre Blue
here and Sacre Blue there!”


THE WORLD’S
GREATEST
RESEARCH
LABORATORIES
REPORT
4
NO OTHER OIL IN THE WORLD PROVIDES
THE FULL PROTECTION OF -
£
•> 'V'
wv/.;v
fWCTIOtf
,\0"
C.O*
f/wrs #or o#e wr £re*x ou/se
THE GREATEST OIL EVER MADE - IT’S GOT THE LOT!
The true causes of
engine wear proved at
the world's greatest
research laboratories
FRI CT
ABRASION ... . 39%
CORROSION . . . , ID%
(Acid-action}
The Mayor raised himself on
his toes and, hands on hips,
demanded, “What’s wrong with
the good Christian expletives
as we’ve been used to, and our
father before us?” This sally
was so well received that he
added—“and these French as
they’ve brought back. Why, I
heard of a popular medico who
shall be nameless”—everyone
turned, smiling to look at Dr.
Phantom and his bride—“who,
on his return from helping Miss
Nightingale at Scutari, was heard
singing the Marcejlooze, as he
went his rounds, when he
thought no one could hear.”
Hearty laughter here stopped
the speech. Mrs. Phantom, who
had been Miss Fragrance Thistle-
dew, blushed, and the Mayor,
suddenly feeling he might have
presumed, hurriedly said “And
now I ask your Excellency to
distribute the prizes.”
li/TR. THRIPP, of the toll-bar,
handed up the list to Mr.
Guerdon. There had been some
kind of hitch, and, to everyone’s
surprise, it was found that Mr.
Guerdon could not read—“l
read print—but not handwrit-
ing.” Lady Willing-Toper, there-
fore, possessed herself of the
paper, and, standing up, a really
regal figure (in heliotrope satin
flounced with lace and decorated
with bunches of pansies on both
skirt and bodice), read out in
her high “English” voice:
“First-prize for a mammoth
watermelon, Mr. Hiram Thripp,
of the-toll-bar.”
An indulgent smile and some
patronising clapping of hands
greeted this first announcement,
Hiram, his lamp held high
above his head, walked down the
alley made for the prizewinners
and took, the shilling.
“First-prize for the best col-
lection of pot- and medicinal-
herbs—Mr. Hiram Thripp, of
the toll-bar.”
Hiram again, wide-eyed and
open-mouthed, his lantern
swinging, hurried along to get
his prize—another shilling.
Mrs. McCree’s friends
refrained from clapping. The
grower of the mammoth water-
melon, who had forced his way
through the crowd to verify the
award, returning, voiced a
protest.
“Hush! Don’t hinterrupt a
lady.” The voice, possibly, was
Mr. Thripp the toll-keeper’s,
who was on the judging com-
mittee.
“First-prize for the best hang-
ing basket, Mr. Hiram Thripp.”
Lady Willing-Toper, herself
surprised, re-examined the
paper. Yes! It was clearly so.
In silence Hiram walked up and
clutched at the shilling.
When, however, the next
announcement said “First-prize
for the best six named varieties
of mangel-wurzels” and Hiram
again claimed . . . loud murmurs
rose on every side.
The Mayor begged for a sight
of the list.
Lady Willing-Toper handed it
over.
A noise only to be described as
the growl of an angry animal
had gone up from the waiting
crowd. There had been foul
jflay. Who was responsible ?
'X'HE men of Parramatta
A looked sourly on the men of
Hornsby Junction. The stalwarts
of Doggett’s Patch angrily
jostled the men of Dural,
Mallow’s Marsh and Gander’s
Pond, a notably bad-tempered
lot, began abusing each other in
the good Christian oaths
approved by the Mayor. The
men from Little Peeping by the
Inlet were mostly sailors, and
very tough customers, for they
came usually from the American
whalers or the blackbirders.
There was a quite noticeable
movement for the various com-
munities to get together; men
were elbowing their way to
collect, as it were, under their
rightful banners. In short, the
seeds of suspicion and disunion
had been sown. ?
Incidents in the past history of
the relationship between the
dwellers in this place or that
were openly brought into con-
versation.
“Hey! You, from Doggett’s
Patch—what about our beer at
the Oddfellows’ picnic last
year?”
The beer had vanished; the
men of Doggett’s Patch had
been obviously convivial and a
free fight had ended the event,
“Where’s your umpire,
Huskies?” Another slogan
became dominant.
At the football-match • between
the Dural Huskies and the
Mallow’s Marsh Wanderers, a
wrong decision, as Mallow’s
Marsh held, had awarded the
victory to Dural.
“Where s our fifty pounds ?”
The most flagrant case of
chicanery ever known in the
history of sport had been the
disappearance of the stakes, in a
cricket - match, played last
summer for fifty pounds a side,
between teams from Parramatta
and Gander’s Pond.
There was certainly going to
be trouble.
With great presence of mind
the Mayor said “Tea is now
ready for the ladies in the
adjacent tent, and the "Lady
Mayoress will escort her Excel-
lency and her party to partake
of refreshment there. Will every
lady please join them?”
Every lady was only too glad
to escape. The rustle of silk,
the faint jangle of crinoline
wire, the creak of whalebone
which marked the movements of
the fair sex quickly grew to a
crescendo and as they vanished
was heard to die down in the
distance.
“I’ll ask every man who calls
himself a man to wait in this
here marquee till the
(French oath) (English
expletive) (aboriginal spell-
word), devil who monkeyed with
that there prize-list is exposed
for the (Norwegian whal-
ing phrase) cheat he is. And I
hopes all proceedings will be
conducted in a gentleman-like
manner.”
A LAS! Not five minutes
** later his Worship, in a white
heat of passion, had cast from
him his robes, cocked hat and
chain and, leaping down from
the platform had seized the
mammoth watermelon - and
hurled it straight at the head of
the captain of the Dural Huskies.
It was the largest, juiciest and
most thickly-seeded watermelon
that ever left its vine ; the con-
sequences of its impact changed
the face of local history; the
Dural Husky, though dazed and
blinded by pink juice, riposted by
picking up the giant pumpkin, a
“Pieman’s Wonder,” weighing
seven stone, and planting this,
very neatly, at point-blank range
full in the Worshipful stomach,
The Mayor crumpled up, and
was shoved by some kindly soul
into comparative safety under
the platform.
Mr. Ponting, the butler from
Government House, quickly
assumed the leadership of the
Parramatta faction, and, being a
handyman with his fists, and
scorning the vegetable missile,
quickly engaged the winner of
last year’s welterweight contest
(held at Little Peeping) in an
animated boxing-match. His
footwork, in keeping his balance
in a mixture of vegetable pulp
and struggling bodies, was
admired by all who had time to
notice it.
Directly the fun started. Dr.
Phantom, divesting himself of
his top-hat and frock-coat, leaped
nimbly for the mangel-wurzel
stand and shouting “Doggett’s
Patch for ever!” began hurling
prize mangel - wurzels (the
“Farmer’s Friend,” “Dew of
Herman,” “Nellie* Blinkman,”
chiefly) ’ with unerring aim, at
every combatant not claiming
allegiance to Doggett’s Patch.
m r phantom himself owed no
real allegiance to Doggett’s Patch
except that he visited a ruined
stomach there but he had
noticed that the men from that
hamlet were outnumbered by
fifty to one)
within minute all avail
nI T, wtimfwai llminitinn
j , t f t , .
f p y
,«iimv»rv t u„ thp
r fi arnn ;bns y o p Dofreett’s Patch
n , p Hnrnshv Junction*
r , p , Mpllow’q Marsh
T • p u.. inW
f J nc f y f „ nfTQ „„ r i
;n 'with § th P ir
. , 1
a one -
Every face was bruised and
disorganised, every smock torn
to n boons, every beard sopping
™ et ■ stamec f with tomato-
strawberries or melon-
dem.
And the blood! The grunts
pumped out impact of
eac h mighty fist made an
accompaniment to the shouts
derision, the taunts, the chal-
lenges bandied from man to
man. It was quite impossible to
tell friend from foe—but who
cared? The fight was the thing!
When the fun was at its height.
Donalbain McCree, to his last
term at The King’s School,
looked in, accompanied by the
school football team. With
shouts of glee they manned the
hokey-pokey gondola, and,
charging right down the space
between “Herbs” and “Ferns,”
mowed down all in their path.
Shouts of “King’s School for
ever!” rose above the din.
TT was at this moment that the
A goanna eggs hatched,
A spate of lively black
morsels, their tails twisted back
over their repulsive necks,
launched themselves out into a
surprising world. To Doggett’s
Patch, hemmed in between a tent
wall and a depleted vegetable
stand, stripped of mangel-wurzels,
they were God-sent ammunition,
a miracle from on high, too
tempting to be resisted. Eager
hands seized them. Spread-
eagled, they were discharged,
point-blank, and with the zip of
a feu de foie, straight into the
faces of the men of Gander’s
Pond, who were winning, and
who had formed into a solid
phalanx opposite the heroes of
Doggett’s Patch, their next
objective,
“Nice, nice, very nice! ”
1116 men of Doggett’s Patch,
whose Position had seemed so
h°P e l ess > raised a loud chorus.
the goannas made the
most perfect projectiles, for they
stuck; ran up and down, evad-
*nB ca P ture ; and the sight of
six i etty B oannas Paying catch-
as-catch-can round the bald head
of the police-sergeant from
Gander’s Pond was of so corn-
P e^n S a fantasy that several
men s^ut . their eyes and were
taking the pledge, all to
themselves,
, They almost held up the
en 8 a § emen t for sheer horror,
Almost but not quite. Many
contestants could not see them,
ad( j leaping up on the trestles,
had begun cutting down the wire
hanging-baskets of ferns, when
a sme fi Q f burning assailed every
nostril.
Hiram Thripp had at last suc-
ceeded in setting fire to the tent,
'pLAMES sprang up in four
A several corners,
Hiram, swinging his opened
lamp, was visible one moment,
yelling with triumph, and then
a fi became a pandemonium past
description,
United, every man, though
himself urgent for the safety of
the outer air, looked to his
stricken neighbor. The rows of
men, laid out along the tent-
flap, dazed or unconscious, were
dragged to safety. Trundled out
on the hokey-pokey barrow,
bleeding noses, broken collar-
bones, sprained wrists and
ankles and several cases of
( Continued on page 30)


I
FASTER WITH
GETS
Fhe model AL-160 International Truck, like the
"willing horse" is always ready for work. Ask the truck
driver with years of experience. He'll tell you Inter-
nationals really "stand up to it" when the going is
tough.
Model AL-160 with all the popular International
in-built heavy-duty features is your truck for long
service, few overhauls and the rigid maintenance ,of
schedules.
RESERVE POWER: 108 max. b.h.p. • 186 lbs. ft. net torque at
1,100 r.p.m. • 4 heiicai-cut synchromesh forward gears f
Hypoid rear axle.
MORE MANOEUVRABILITY: Wider front axles • 37° turning
angle gives 12-ft. tray body on 154" W. 8., a turning radius of
25V2 ft. 14-ft. body on 172" W. 8., 28V2 ft. • Easier "natural
angle" steering position.
MORE ACCESSIBLE ENGINE: One-piece removable bonnet can be
raised from either side. • Engine service and daily main-
tenance the easiest ever.
MORE STOPPING POWER: Obtainable from power boosted two-
cylinder leading shoe brakes. • More effective use of linings
mean longer service.
Ask your International Dealer for a demonstration.
V
IMTCRMATIONAt
■
sdf
COMFO-VISION CAB.
Full-width deep cushion
seat 5-ft. wide. • 13.2
sq.-ft. of safety glass
for all round vision. O
"Super-scoop" ventila-
ting cowl for comfort-
able driving.
★
CARRYING CAPACITY
G.V.W. 16,000 lb. -
4-5 ton payload. • W.B.
154" or 172"-12 or
14 foot tray bodies for
Carriers, Farmers, Con-
tractors, Nurserymen,
Market Gardeners, Pro-
duce Merchants and
many others.
★
SILVER DIAMOND
ENGINE. Block hard-
ened by the addition
of chrome. • Molyb-
denum iron exhaust-
valve seat inserts. •
An extra compression
ring on each piston. •
U-flex oil rings.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(incorporated in victoria)
District Sales Offices in all Capital Cities. Works; Dandenong and Geelong, Victoria.
No Stone Unturned
Early on Christmas morning
of 1950 three young Scotsmen
and a girl, armed with patriotic
fervour and a kit of burglar's
tools, broke into Westminster
Abbey. They seized the Coro-
nation Stone, ancient symbol
of Scottish liberty, and secreted
it into Scotland —and thereby
set the Empire on its ears.
May Reader’s Digest brings
you the ringleader’s account of
1950’s high-handed, high-hearted
coup, in a 22-page book conden-
sation of “No Stone Unturned."
Also In the May issue
dozens of stimulating articles
of lasting interest condensed
from world’s leading magazines
and current books.
, May Reader’s Digest—on sale
now —one shilling and sixpence
at all newsagents and book-
stalls.
I couldn't help it
by H. A. Lindsay
(WORK for my uncle, who
owns two small sheep-runs.
They lie eighty miles apart,
with a range of hills between
them. It is astonishing what a
difference this distance makes in
the way of rainfall and climate.
On the northern property, the
feed is burnt up and dead by the
middle of October, but on the
southern one the pasture keeps
green through most of the
summer.
We manage the two properties
fey wintering the sheep up north,
shifting them south as soon as
the feed gives out. When winter
arrives they go back again, so I
make two droving trips each
year.
It’s not a job I like. The land-
owners along the route are the
biggest lot of snakes and narks
you ever struck. They look on
the roads around their properties
as long paddocks, to which they
hold the sole grazing rights. It
makes them hopping mad to see
sheep belonging to an outsider
come along, eating all the road-
side feed.
As I have the usual waybill
and am bound for a definite
destination, as well as taking care
to cover the statutory six miles
a day, they can do nothing about
it except roar at me —and that
doesn’t hurt a man.
''THERE is one spot, however,
which I’ve always been glad
to reach, coming and going ; an
oasis of goodwill, so to speak,
in a desert of hostility. It is
Ardshiel, the property of Andrew
McAlpen. As far as my experi-
ence goes, that craggy-faced old
bachelor is the only one of his
kind. Never have T met another
such blend of open-hearted
generosity combined with so
hard a head in business matters,
or such a mixture of wisdom
and child-like innocence.
His sheep-run is a model in
every way. He not only keeps
up-to-date in working the pro-
perty, but up to next month. In
other words, he does now what
everyone else does in a year or
two. When the topdressing of
pasture came in, he was doing
it while others were still wonder-
ing if it would pay. Flis property
was growing subterranean clover
before most of his neighbors
could recognise the plant when
they saw it. Heaven only knows
what the old boy is worth today.
Unique among the people of
the district, he does not object
to drovers. In fact, he encour-
ages them to stop at his place by
fencing off a few small pad-
docks in his bracken-country
down by the main road. Anyone
shifting a mob of sheep is free
to put them in one of those
paddocks for the night.
Incidentally, he doesn’t lose
by it. After a few years of
frequent trampling by sheep, the
bracken in each paddock is killed
out and the ground is heavily
manured into the bargain. Then
Angus sows it to pasture, and
fences off a few new areas for
drovers to use. In this way he
has now turned some fifty acres
of useless bracken into good
land.
Everyone who calls at Ard-
shiel is offered hospitality, but
Andrew divides people into two
distinct classes. Having a very
good field-manager in Alex
Munro, he spends most of his
own time in the office at the side
of the house. As soon as his dog
lets him know that somebody is
coming up the drive, he picks up
his walking-stick and stalks out
to see who it is.
Bagmen, drovers, hawkers and
other lesser orders get a nod in
reply to their greeting, then he
points to the men’s quarters at
the far end of the driveway.
“Go yonder,” he directs.
“Donald will fix ye up.”
A very different reception
awaits friends, neighbors, Gov-
ernment officials and other social
equals. He advances with out-
stretched hand. “Come ye in,”
he says, and with those words
he makes you welcome for as
long as you care to stay.
Only one drover is thus
honored; old Fred Day, with
whom Andrew played when a
boy. I was also a favored one,
but those days have gone. On
my last two visits I have been
directed to the hut. It was my
own fault, but I couldn’t help
what I did.
"EVERY man who is a bit out
■*-' of the ordinary seems to
have some queer kink in his
make-up, though some such
quirks are more obvious than
others. With Andrew it takes the
form of a complete absence of
humor. Nothing can make him
laugh. To him, life is very
serious, and all conversation, in
his opinion, should be likewise.
If anyone laughs at anything he
says, he regards it as a deadly
insult. I did it and so I fell
from grace.
It happened a year ago. I was
shifting a mob of my uncle’s
sheep. When I reached Ard-
shiel, I found that old Fred Day
had arrived with another mob
about an hour previously. As
soon as I had yarded my sheep,
fed my dogs and turned out my
horses, Fred and I went up to the
homestead.
We received the usual
welcome. After tea Andrew took
us to the office, where he set out
the whisky-decanter and a box
of cigars. It was a cold night for
November and we sat by the
small fire which the housekeeper
had lit.
“The world’s a strange place,”
our host remarked, with a solemn
headshake. “Just ye listen to
what happened to me a couple
o’ weeks back, now.”
The story was typical of the
things which always seem to
happen to him when he leaves
his own district. With his usual
innocence in matters of the kind,
he had gone to Melbourne on
business during the first week of
November. Upon arrival, he
discovered what anyone else
would have known beforehand.
Every pub was booked out by
people who had come there for
the Cup meeting.
Until late in the evening, he
searched in vain for accommo-
dation. Somebody advised him
to try a boarding-house at St.
Kilda, but he had no better luck
there. He went into a shop to
get some supper, and from there
on his tale developed on novel
lines.
“The shop was just a little bit
o’ a place,” he informed us.
“The young woman who ran it
was all painted and poodered up,
like most o’ them are these days.
While I was Batin’ I said to her:
‘lt’s a hard thing for, a man wi’
money in his pocket to tramp
the streets wi’oot findin’ a spot
where he can lay his head for
the night.’ '
“She gives me a perky smile.”
“ ‘Very tactful,’ she says to
me. ‘This is the place.’
“She closes the door o’ the
shop and shows me to a room
wi’ a dodble bed in it.
“ T won’t be, long,’ she goes
on. ‘Just got to put oot the
milkcan and a few things like
that.’
“I was too tired to pay much,
heed to what she says, so I took
my pyjamas oot o’ my bag and
got into bed.”
Andrew looked at us each in
turn and added in a shocked,
incredulous tone:
“Next thing I know, the light
goes on again and there she is,
undressin’ in the same room wi’
me’. I turned my back, o’
coorse, but I was all o’ a
tremble. I didn’t know what to
make o’ it.
“When she gets into the bed,
she shakes my shoulder., but I
pretends to be asleep, so after a
time she lets me be. I hardly
closed my eyes all night, though.
I’d never shared a bed wi’ a
woman in my life. I tell ye, it
was very embarrasin’. I was
domned glad when the mornin’
came.
“Wi’oot wakin’ the young
woman I took my clothes to a
bit o’ a back kitchen, dressed
myself, put some money on the
table to pay for the bed and let
myself oot. I was glad to get
away, I can tell ye. Did ye ever
hear the like o’ it? I was a
pairfect stranger and she
shares her bed wi’ me!”
HE sat staring into the fire,
while, Fred and I gaped at
each other behind his back. We
didn’t doubt a word of it;
Andrew is incapable of a lie or a
flight of imagination. The tfhole
thing was in keeping with the
well-nigh incredible innocence
which forms one facet of his
character. Then he said it.
“Ye know, if I hadn’t been
brought up so streectly, I would
ha’ made a hooer o’ that young
woman! ”
It was too much for tne. I
laughed in his face.
He looked at me in offended
surprise, his shaggy eyebrows
lowering into an angry frown,
then he stood up.
“It’s late,” he growled. “I’ll
show ye to y’r rooms.”
He left us with a curt “Good
night t’ ye!”
And next time I called at
Ardshiel I was directed to the
hut.


Vast Opportunity Beckoning
The Atom Age
in Australia
By M. H. ELLIS
WHEN the kind of history
which deals in epochs
looks back on our era,
the second 50 years of
the 20th century undoubtedly
will be classified as the begin-
ning of the Age of Atomic Men.
The men of nuclear science
before then are not properly of
this class. They were transi-
tional types who learnt through
trial and error to think in terms
of the new physics which they
mostly evolved out of their own
brains. Most were not weaned
entirely on protons and neutrons.
They became addicted to them,
and they, therefore, did not have
the intuitive approach to the
problems associated with atomic
science which distinguishes the
rising youngsters.
When the atomic pile was first
built, the first cyclotron con-
structed, the bomb exploded at
Hiroshima, the climax of the pre-
parative stage for the real atomic
era was approaching. The ad-
vance on previous performance
was, of course, so great that it
seemed almost the ultimate. It
seemed to most laymen that
atomic history from now on-
ward would probably run
according to the same pattern as
the history of other types of
power-production ; that a basic
method had been reached, basic
machines designed, and that,
therefore, the atom-machinery
of 2050 would differ from that
of 1950 only in the same degree
as the steam-engine of today
differs from the engine of 1820
or the motor-car of today
differs from that of 1903.
But atom scientists think it
may not work out quite in
that way. Whereas steam and
electricity are more or' less
earthbound forces, produced
from the first at a reasonably
economic cost for industry,
atomic power under the systems
so far in use takes immeasurably
more force and therefore in-
finitely more money to drag it in
workable quantity from its lair.
It is something which belongs
to the universe rather than
specifically to the earth. There-
fore the new nuclear scientists
are dogmatic on the point that
only the fringe of nuclear re-
search has been touched and
that the present phase is still
elementary and experimental.
They seem to see in front of
them almost illimitable fields of
revolutionary problems which
new scientific methods and de-
vices are bound to solve within
reasonably predictable time.
Before the age of electronics,
which has appeared almost as if
by magic, the very magni-
tude of mathematical calcula-
tions necessary to turn prob-
ability into certainty was
thought to put them beyond the
chance of immediate solution.
But new electronic calculators,
new “eyes,” enable the re-
searcher to see, dissect and ex-
amine the infinitesimal and its
structure and behavior, even if
it happens to live its life some-
where round the speed of light
and in realms distant from
earth. He has -new statistical
methods of description. Also he
has new engineering techniques
capable of dealing with tremen-
dous energy, and reasonable
quantities of radioactive metals
of suitable properties, nature
and condition for fission-treat-
ment.
These things have taken
nuclear research on to the very
doorstep of the infinite. Prob-
ability is no longer something
with which the best-equipped
scientist sometimes has to be
satisfied. Already in many
avenues which lead towards the
Atomic Age probability is de-
fined to mean merely the mea-
sure of our curable ignorance.
Under the impetus of the new
changes—the complete revolu-
tion which in the last decade
has changed the science of
physics from its topknot to its
toenails every Government,
university and technological
institute in the world which has
owned a few million pounds of
cash has treated itself to the
instruments of research and gone
into the nuclear-fission business.
The research takes a simple
enough basic form to be under-
stood by anybody. As Dr.
Messel, the new Professor of
Physics at Sydney University
and one of the world’s leading
nuclear men, says, the scientific
approach is very much like that
of a small boy who pegs stones
at a nest to see what will come
out of it—wasps or hornets.
The, man-made plant for
nuclear bombardment of atomic
wasps’-nests is, however, slightly
more powerful than that pro-
vided by muscle and elbow-
grease and a casually selected
gibber. The target —the nucleus
at which the scientists heave their
rocks —is almost immeasurably
small in diameter; but to
penetrate to it through the elec-
tron cloud giant energies hurled
by accelerators are needed —
bevatrons, cosmotrons and other
behemothrons of various sorts,
growing in size, dealing in
power in terms of billions of
volts, and of commensurate
cost.
Yet the giant of giants among
all these man-made machines is
capable of —relatively—hitting
an atomic nucleus only a flip
on the ear with a charged pro-
jectile. True, a hard enough
blow can be delivered to induce
the nucleus to shake a few useful
facts, and gamma rays out of its
private recesses, but the ambi-
tious researcher needs more
than a mere few million man-
made volts to really cleave it
down to the weazand and
actually lay bare its interior.
What is really required is as yet
beyond the capacity of man to
turn out.
His greatest immediate hope
seems to be to harness the hit-
ting-power of the cosmic-rays
which come from other spheres
and permeate everything around
the earth, and which have mil-
lions of times the velocity and
force of the man-made article.
Now, in the light of this fact,
it may in the end prove a boon
to mankind, and particularly to
Australia, that not all universi-
ties here have a few millions to
spend on behemothrons, and
that those which have are too
few to occupy the fertile, teem-
ing and multiplying minds of the
New Men of the Atomic Age,
themselves one of the most
astonishing crops grown from
the seed sown at Hiroshima.
Just as the youth who can-
not buy a cabin-cruiser and a
£lOO rod to trawl for giant
stingrays off Kangaroo Island
makes himself a £5 spear-gun
and sets out for the rocks with a
view to doing his big-game fish-
ing on a shallow bottom, so the
neutron physicist without a be-
heraothron sets Out to catch
his prey with cheaper weapons
through study of the cosmic-
rays. He is comforted by
the fact that his type of research-
ing with cosmic-rays instead of
with man-produced rays has
yielded nearly everything funda-
mentally new in nuclear know-
ledge in the past decade.
The hunter and would-be
tamer of cosmic-rays, like his
companion stalker of stingrays,
needs only comparatively simple
apparatus. Somewhere in the
void—one of his main objectives
at this stage is to find out where
—some vast generator is spawn-
ing his prey for him in huge
quantities and obligingly hurl-
ing flocks of it at the earth. The
rays travel with titanic energy,
passing through everything in
their path, fortunately unnoticed
by those humans who are every
instant riddled.
Cosmic-rays even pass un-
noticed in millions through the
human brain, on which they
make not the slightest impact,
since, as any nuclear scientist
will be pleased to explain, even
the greatest brain in Canberra
is just another empty space, as
space is considered scientifi-
cally, and a projectile passes
through it without coming into
contact with- anything whatever
likely to cause friction or attract
attention to itself.
To capture the cosmic-ray, to
apply it, is the aim of the whole
school of the new atomic men.
The idea of harnessing the forces
of the illimitable universe and
using them as a youngster uses
rocks to peg at unsuspecting
nuclei does not daunt them.
Their only trouble is that, like
the spearfishermen, they need to
go where the game is thickest
and most lively. This is not at
the bottom of the sea, as when
hunting stingrays. The gambol-
ling-ground of the cosmic-ray,
where it can be studied at its
best and liveliest, is in the regions
far up in the stratosphere; for
once a cosmic-ray reaches the
earth’s atmosphere it gets
shoved around a bit by bump-
ing into oxygen and hydrogen
nuclei which fail to get out of
the way, and is apt to be a little
nnnch-drnnk at tree-level and
puncn-drunK at tree-level and
stagger along sluggishly—about
ns sluffoisblv as a rather hnsv
as sluggishly as a rather busy
streak of lightning.
Tr ,„ • _
Trapping a ray in that con-
dition is the equivalent, in the
nuclear-fission world, to shoot-
” 8 I
in any case in a condition to be
examined at its best,
Therefore the raps are laid
with the aid of large balloons
around the 20-mile altitude,
where the ether becomes as
thick with cloud - chambers,
photographic devices, Geiger-
Muller counters, scintillation
counters, Cerenkov counters and
other strange devices as the
scientists have the resources to
make it.
Into these the cosmic-rays,
hurtling out of space, bump and
leave at least their fingerprints
behind for the scientists to
investigate, with their patience
and diligence examining tons
of data for a grain of news
about cosmic natural history.
Gradually, they hope, by
carrying this process on ad
infinitum, to become so far
acquainted with the habits and
disposition of the cosmic-ray as
to be able to make it do their
stone-throwing for them with
a force which will burst open
the toughest nucleus and expose
the whole of its lights to the
public view. When that point
is reached the secrets of the
universe will mostly be theirs,
and they will command the
know-how, where suitable
atomic metals are available for
fission, to relegate the present
man-made projectile-producing
machines to the boy-and-elbow-
grease class.
Cosmic-ray research is of
enormous importance to Aus-
tralia, because its success might
well develop, within a reason-
ably short period, the means to
produce an abundance of cheap
power in places where no power
is just now producible on an
industrial scale without fuel
being* imported to them from a
long distance. This country as
yet has no oil and not much
chance of finding it in quantity.
Its , coal-measures are limited
relatively to the needs of the
future and localised, with a
resulting unhealthy concentra-
tion of the industrialised areas
into a few small districts. This
adds tremendously to the ease
with which an invader could
paralyse the whole Common-
wealth.
This continent can never have
waterpower comparative in
quantity to that of other con-
tinents. It has so few snow
mountains; its rainfall in most
parts of the country gives its
rivers" a seasonably irregular
flow. It lives precariously, if
opulently at present, off the
sheep’s back.
The one development in sight
which could make us really
secure beyond all question
would be that of cheap atomic
power from our own materials.
We have the basic sources of
fissionable material needed. The
supplies of uranium already sur-
veyed at Rum Jungle and Edie
Creek are at least as great as
those of the Belgian Congo and
Eldorado in Canada put to-
gether. Within the British Com-
monwealth Australia looks like
being the world’s greatest source
of atom-material in the foresee-
able future; and, though there
are plenty of people abroad
who would willingly sell us the
technical know-how to deal with
it on the best basis —once they
have found it out themselves—
it is, as Professor Messel re-
marks, much cheaper to sell
your own inventions than to buy
somebody else’s.
The Commonwealth Govern-
ment is well aware of this. It
is building one of the man-made
elephantrons at Canberra at im-
mense cost, so that the doctors
who resort there may play with
it, though there will be no under-
graduate body on the spot to Be
inspired by it. Nothing effective
has yet been done to provide for
adequate study of cosmic-ray
physics.
Yet, if the facts are what they
appear to be, Australia has a
chance of becoming one of the
great centres of cosmic-ray re-
search in the world, and of
making the important discoveries
which seem bound to come out
of it in view of the type of mind
which is on the job.
It has dawned on many of
the leading younger top-ranking
atomic scientists of the world
who work on cosmic-rays that
Australia is the ideal field for
their operations. England is too
small, too foggy and too windy
at the best of times. Balloons
with valuable gear as often as
not disappear over the sea and
are lost with their valuable
instruments. In both Europe
and America the long, tempestu-
ous winters limit the length of
the operative year. But in Aus-
tralia, with its wide spaces free
of heavy timber, its clear air,
rainless for months at a time,
conditions for balloon-fishing
for rays are ideal. The cosmic-
ray artist’s dream is to live for
ever at Woomera or in Sturt’s
Stony Desert, copiously sup-
plied with large balloons, coun-
ters and other necessaries,
and served by an abundant and
skilled scanning staff with a
meticulous eye for detail in
stratospheric records.
Already the ideal atmospheric
conditions and the strong smell
of uranium which pervades the
Antipodes is tempting the new
men to roll their Geiger-counters
in their swags and make south.
There is an impressive immigra-
tion of talent, of which the
young Canadian physicist—a
Canadian-Dutchman, top-flight
atom-physicist, aged 31 —who
has descended on Sydney
University as its Professor
of Physics, and whose presence
is already attracting others, is
something of a human cyclotron
himself.
In the three months since he
came he has been able to form
an operating team which is prob-
ably second to none in the world
for its purpose. Dr. E. P.
George, of the Imperial College
of Science, London, and Dr.
Blatt, one of the world’s lead-
ing nuclear theoreticians, from
Illinois, are coming to join him-
Professor Ma, a leading field-
worker in the cosmic-ray field,
who has experience of the tech-
nique of half a dozen famous
nuclear-science centres, includ-
ing the best-endowed in
America (Princeton and
Chicago), Dr. D. D. Millar, who
has worked at Manchester Uni-
versity under Dr. Rosenfeld, and
A. J. Hertz, of the Imperial Col-
lege, London, an expert in
cosmic-ray photography, are of
the team.
Already, also, there have been
applications for post-graduate
enrolment from brilliant re-
search students in the most ex-
clusive inner circle of institutions
in Europe, members of the group
of Peierls at Birmingham (one of
the then who really did develop
the first atomic bomb), the
Poincare Institute of Paris, Man-
chester, and the pioneer Chalk
River Institute in Canada. The
coming of these highly-advanced
workers, bringing with them per-
sonal knowledge of the tech-
niques of the world’s atomic
leaders, means more than merely
that groups of brilliant physi-
cists and overseas students will
work here ; it means that a be-
ginning can be made to pass on
to our own beginners what they
have to teach and thus firmly
establish a basis for our own
school in a new branch of
nuclear study.
What they do, however, will
depend on the provision that
can be made to find the £25,000-
a-year which will be needed
from the beginning to equip and
finance their researches. It
should not be difficult to find.
Federal and State Governments
are a barren field for such ven-
tures, it seems, and Sydney Uni-
versity, which has more pupils
than Oxford or Cambridge, is
mainly absorbed in grinding out
diplomaed B.As. and B.Ecs.,
hundreds of whom would be
more usefully and suitably em-
ployed laying bricks.
So Professor Messel, with all
the enthusiasm of youth, has
started a campaign to secure the
money he needs on an invest-
ment basis from businessmen.
Certainly it is the kind of thiqg
which large firms interested in
power could be expected to
finance with a view to ultimate
profit from patents and rights,
as is done in the United States
and Europe. And certainly the
work would be done with a
freer hand and in a more busi-
nesslike way under a private
corporation than under Gov-
ernment.
The stake is large both for
industry and for the a country—
particularly for its defence,
especially since atomic power is
the only type of power which it
seems will ever be generated on
a large scale in those distant parts
of the Commonwealth where
there is no coal and no water
for hydroelectricity. The out-
lay should not be overdifficult
to provide for a country which
spends millions a year on beer
and tobacco and which thinks
nothing of turning over half a
million with the books at Rand-
wick of a weekend.
Particularly the scheme seems
one in which the wool-industry
might find it a good insurance
to invest. And it should not be
allowed to rest at provision for
a single university. Every re-
search body which can deal with
students should be encouraged
to import and develop the talent
necessary to see that Australia
receives the maximum benefit
from its rich stores of minerals
suitable for the production of
atomic power.


CRIPPLING RHEUMATIC PAINS
quickly eased with
QjQjnms
TRADE WAR*|
m
a iis* 1
RH6 uM
UR|T |S
b aoo
IOM
* eFF <
no* I** 1
Ll*B l£
«K Ttf
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
• During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic* Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
• DOLCIN is non-toxic.
• DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
• DOLCfN. has been a standard treatment for the past
five years.
• 1,100,000,000 tablets hare been administered throughout
the world.
« DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
• DOLCfN is obtainable from your chemist.
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLCIN
Informative literature on Doldn
will be sent on request to Dolcin
(Australia ) Piy. Ltd., Box ISS2,
GJ.O., Sydney.
D 4.2
SPORTING NOTIONS
Hydrogen’s win over Welkin
Sun and Maynard in the Bris-
bane Cup earned for his owner,
E. R, Williams, a stake of £8715
and sent the horse’s prizemoney
total to £44,567. Phar Lap is
the only horse to have won more
money than Hydrogen up to the
end of his fourth year. Phar
Lap’s total, £56,425, is the
highest amount won in Aus-
tralia, and one success in
America increased it to £66,738.
Hydrogen is now fifth on the
list of noted Australian winners.
Those ahead of him, in addition
to Phar Lap, are Comic Court
(£48,579), Amounis (£48,297)
and Delta (£46,807). Shannon,
of course, won £84,648, but of
that only £18,987 was earned in
his own country, the rest in the
U.S.A.
Dark Star, a son of 1946 Caul-
field Cup winner Royal Gem, in
winning the Kentucky Derby
(decided a couple of days before
the Brisbane Cup) lifted a prize
exceeding £A40,000, which
makes the Q.T.C. stake look
quite a modest total. Dark Star
has now earned more than
£A57,000, and is proving a, grand
advertisement for an Australian-
bred sire.
The £2500 Moreton Handicap
(11 furlongs), a compensating
event for horses beaten in the
Brisbane Cup, was run last
Saturday and won by the local
champion, Basha Felika, from
Sydney challenger Gallant
Archer and Another Law. Basha
Felika, 1951 Caulfield Cup win-
ner, has stood up to a lot of
racing in recent weeks, but he
won four events, a creditable
record for a horse that had
been operated on for a wind
infirmity.
Callide River (winner) and
Forest Chief (runner-up) in the
Q.T.C. Claret Stakes (two-year-
olds) cost 600 and 1700gns.
respectively at the Randwick
autumn sales last year. Both
were bred at Kia-Ora Stud,
Scone (N.S.W.), and they were
auctioned within half an hour
of each other. Pedigree of Cal-
lide River, a brother to Sea
Sovereign, already has been fea-
tured on this page. Forest Chief
is a brother to Lord Forest, a
Randwick winner, and a half-
brother to Bankstream (Sydney
Cup), High Tide and Auburn
River. He is by Delville Wood
(imp.) from High Class by
Magpie (imp.), and traces back
on the dam’s side to Carbine.
Owned by Sydney sportsmen
Joe Harris and “H. Tanks,”
Queensland Sires’ Produce
Stakes winner Prince Morvi
could prove a top-line three-
year-old in the coming season,
as he has done little racing and
is related to prominent English
horses. The owners evidently
expect Prince Morvi’s yearling
brother to prove a worthy rela-
tive, because they went to 1800
guineas to secure him at the
Randwick April sales. Prince
Morvi cost them 1050gns. Both
colts are members of Ernie
Fellows’s team at Randwick.
They are by Gaekwar’s Pride
(imp.), a grandson of Fairway,
and from Sincerity by Beau
Pere (imp.) from Rossolis
(imp.) by Invershin (dual
winner of the Ascot Gold Cup).
Sydney turf followers were
quite unprepared for a Brisbane
win by Venidis in the J. C.
Carrick Handicap. When the
five-year-old mare was brought
from Brisbane last winter,
she raced 13 times on” Syd-
ney courses for three minor
places and pnoved one of the
greatest friends of the book-
makers ever sent from the
northern capital. Obviously
Brisbane punters were also sur-
prised ; she started at 16 to 1.
Neville Sellwood, who had rid-
den Venidis in some Sydney
races, was on the second-
favorite, Stamp (third place-
getter).
• • • •
Few two-year-olds have won
three successive events this
season. Seacraft has done so in
Sydney, while in Melbourne
Magic Mountain, at Flemington
on Saturday, completed a hat-
trick. He was the one bright
spot for punters in the after-
noon’s racing—the sole winning
favorifc (7 to 4). The High Peak
colt, one of Melbourne’s
smartest youngsters, showed
ability to get the, mile and could
prove a stayer.
With the curtain rung down
on the Q.T.C.’s Brisbane Cup
carnival, the next fixture of im-
portance will be the Doomben
double, the Ten Thousand and
Cup, to be run in early July,
entries closing next Monday.
Some of the southern-owned
horses which competed at Ascot
last week will remain in Bris-
bane for the B.A.T.C. fixture.
The old idea of spelling horses
over the winter months has long
since faded.
J. J. Lynch, one of Australia’s
best-known and most-respected
stipendiary stewards in the
the north, has resigned owing
to a setback in his health. The
Q.T.C.’s new chairman of
stewards will be Neive Frawley.
With six of the seven favorites
beaten on the final day of the
Q.T.C.’s autumn carnival, and
one winning favorite from six
races at Flemington, backers at
each meeting had a tough after-
noon last Saturday. In Sydney
the S.T.C. for the second succes-
sive Saturday had to postpone a
Canterbury Park meeting.
Ten weeks of the current
racing season remain, and
Sydney statistics show that half-
a-dozen trainers and jockeys
have won most of the races and
the fat end of the stakemoney.
Many trainers haven’t led in a
winner, while most of the lesser-
known jockeys and apprentices
have been on lean rations, so far
as prizemoney is concerned. It
is simply amazing how many
suburban trainers manage to
keep going from year to year
without doing much good with
their horses, especially with feed
and other incidentals at such a
“A clean fight, boys, an' th' winner takes th'
new barmaid t ’ th’ dance.”
high figure. Costs must eventu-
ally force some from the racing
game. It already has done so.
Owners of horses that cannot
notch a win or two are also find-
ing the sport expensive, though
when half-a-dozen drop out at
least that number come in, as
was demonstrated at the recent
Randwick yearling sales, when
dozens of newcomers to racing
were among the purchasers.
Owner-breeder Laurie Mor-
gan, who races in partnership
with F. L. Bragg two-year-old
Flippant, a Hawkesbury winner
at that club’s latest fixture, bred
the filly; he also bred Kyeema
Lass, another two - year - old
winner at the same meet-
ing. Flippant is by Port Vista
(imp.) from Maenad by Drake
(imp.) from Rudas by Linacre,
while Kyeema Lass is by
Precept (1943 V.R.C. Derby
winner) from Gala Belle by Salt-
ash (imp.) from Queen of the
Day by Blue Trout _ (imp.).
Viteren, winner of the third divi-
sion of the Two-year-old, is a
first foal and belongs to a good
winning family, which includes
Count Ito (V.R.C. Newmarket),
Dashing Cavalier (A.J.C. Metro-
politan) and Royal Charter
(Moonee Valley Gold Cup).
Viteren was a 425gns. yearling,
the bid of Moorefield trainer
Bob Mead, who races the colt
in partnership with D. Wilson.
The youngster was bred by S. G.
White, of Jerry’s Plains (N.S.W.),
and is by Stockade (imp.).
This could be an Australian
year in English riding honors
with such prominent horsemen
as Edgar Britt, A. (Scobie)
Breasley and Ted Fordyce riding
at the top of their form. Britt,
who retains his lead over all
other English riders, has a good
chance of winning the Derby on
Nearula, winner of the Two
Thousand Guineas.
# * *
At this early stage of the
V.F.L. competition the most
striking feature is the lordly and
somewhat disdainful way in
which Geelong, last year’s
premiers, treats opponents. Even
against Collingwood on Satur-
day the “Cats” coasted and the
“Magpies,” leading 8,8. to 4.4
at half-time, burst into carols of
glee. Then Geelong yawned,
stretched, eyed the scores
thoughtfully and proceeded to
pluck the Magpies thoroughly.
It was 14.14 to 9.19 at the bell.
Unbeaten North Melbourne
ran into a snag on their own
ground against Melbourne, just
making it by a point (12.12-
11.17) after trailing all the way.
Footscray walloped Hawthorn
by 16.15 to 6.6, and Essendon
did the same for St. Kilda,
17.20-7.16, while Carlton and
Richmond staged a ding-dong
go, for the Blues to win, 16.8-
15.8, and at South Melbourne
Fitzroy beat the locals by
12.14 to 10.15.
* * * *
In the Australia v. The Rest
Rugby Union at Sydney Cricket
Ground, Australia got there,
14-6. Some weaknesses were
obvious; in the second half,
with tiring players, they stood
out. When one player dummies
past an opponent, stops, looks
round, is caught, and still has
time to get his pass away, there
is something gravely wrong with
both attack and defence. The
Springboks would tear him apart
before his first change-of-mind.
These faults are not irrepar-
able ; one has only to recall the
ragged showing of the Waliibies
before they went to Great
Britain, and the polished per-
formance they gave at North
Sydney in an exhibition game
on their return to realise what
can be done with a team on a
tour, given good material.
Some of the material, as ex-
hibited at the Cricket Ground,
was very good indeed. Hughes’s
cover defence was outstanding;
in general, his play strongly re-
minded this writer of that of
Arthur Buchan, the best lock he
has seen. Hughes is, perhaps, a
bit loose in his play as yet. But
a player is only as loose, in
attack, as the opposition will
permit him, and the general
vigor of Hughes’s tactics indi-
cate that he will grunt and groan
with the best when the pack is
committed with the huge
S’African forwards: he will have
to if the team is to have any
chance of success, and so will
breakaway Brockhoff.
The team for South Africa is:
Full-backs, R. Colbert (N.S.W.),
T. Sweeney (Q.); wingers, E.
Stapleton (N.S.W.), G. Jones,
(Q.); three-quarters, G. Horsley
(Q.) and H. Barker, J. Blomley,
J. Phipps, H. J. Solomon, S.
White (all N.S.W.); half-backs,
C. Burke, J. Bosler (both
N.S.W.); five-eighths, S. Brown,
M. Tate (both N.S.W.); locks,
B. Johnson, N. Hughes (both
N. ; breakaways, K. Cross,
R. Outterside, C. Windon, D.
Brockhoff (all N.S.W.); hookers,
J. Walsh, J. Bain (both N.S.W.);
other forwards, N. Shehadie, E.
Morey, A. Cameron, A. Miller,
R. Davidson, J. Carroll, M.
Elliott (all N.S.W.); C. Forbes
(Q-).
After Queensland’s splendid
showing in two games, no doubt
Queenslanders, such as Bill Mc-
Lean (Wallaby captain and
coach of the Q. team), should
consider their men unlucky.
However, if Shiel had been avail-
able for the tour he would
almost certainly have been wel-
comed with open arms, and so
would Nev. Cottrell, if injuries
hadn’t put him out of the run-
ning.. The loss of Cottrell, as
hooker, is serious.
The selectors are not happy
about their wingers, and prob-
ably some of the centres (such
as Solomon, who has plenty of
pace) will be tried as wingers.
Stapleton, in Saturday’s game,
did not play well. But on past
performances he could do very
well indeed. The fullback posi-
tion, too, is not very strong.
Tom Sweeney was the obvious
first-choice.
John Blomley (who, since the
trials started, has graduated in
medicine) played, while his con-
dition lasted, the sparkling game
of which he is capable. Blom-
ley’s style is to step inside one
man, palm the next, and find the
gap. And if he finds he can fend
off a man like this he will do it
till the cows come home. Occa-
sionally, however, he dots it
against an opponent he cannot
dispose of so lightheartedly, and
gets a whale of a hiding.
Only one player was picked
on reputation—Col Windon.
Owing to injuries, Windon was
unable to produce anything like
true form on Saturday, and
didn’t see the match out. How-
ever, in this case; the reputation
was so good that the selectors
were clearly justified.
# * *
Australia has a new light-
weight champion, and a pretty
good one by h4s showing so far
—Orange (N.S.W.) butcher-boy
Pat Ford, who took the title from
Frank Flannery at Melbourne
Stadium last Friday night, ad-
ministering by way of fair ex-
change a terrific 10-rounds bat-
tering. Another notable recruit
from the amateur ranks, Ford is
now being lined-up for an
Empire-title scrap.


Rose Lindsay's Mamairs
INTO THE
MACHINE AGE
Final instalment of this series of extracts
from the unpublished memoirs of Mrs.
Norman Lindsay.
NORMAN protested vigor-
ously when I suggested
having the telephone in-
stalled. “That’s the end
of any privacy,” he said.
I argued, “But every time we
receive a telegram we have to
pay three shillings for delivery,
and if we need a doctor how
useful it will be.”
“Both unnecessary evils,” he
replied.
When the men came to instal
it he would not allow them to
put it in the house, entirely on
the grounds that it was an ugly
contraption. So it was put on
the pantry wall, where every
cook got bumped on the
shoulder-blades squeezing past
it, and was also able to impart
all private business to the other
servants.
“Make one rule that no one
rings me up,” Norman said
finally.
It is 20 years since I had it
installed, and I cannot say that
he shows any softening towards
its ring.
When I decided to buy a
motor-car he at once objected
to having such a murderous
thing about the place,
“You have the right to risk
your own life, .but not the
kids’,” he said, and predicted
my end in a matter of days when
I bought a Vauxhall touring-
car.
Later I got a sedan, which he
looked more kindly on, as one
could sit out of the wind, and
he decided to learn to drive. He
was getting on very well with
the first couple of lessons till
he realised how much car there
was behind him.
“If I had only the front part
of this to think about I’d do all
right, but it’s all the back that
worries me,” he said.
I advised him to forget it and
concentrate on the front, which
he did, and knocked a fence
down while backing.
He refused to have any more
to do with driving by getting out
and footing it for home, waving
Elioth Gruner was rarely pic-
tured, and never better than in
this drawing by Low.
aside with disdain my offers of
a lift as I gained on him with
gentle tooting.
When he found a wireless in-
stalled in our dining-room he
listened for a minute or two,
inquired how it worked, dialled
every station in one whirl.
“What a madhouse. How do
you stand it?” he asked, hastily
turning it off and leaving the
room.
Even now if he comes into
the room and it is on he promptly
silences it, having long since
noted which button is used for
this. But he has no idea how to
start it going.
A visitor, looking around our
grounds, said to Norman “You
have some fine landing-ground
for helicopters. They will be
used more than cars in the near
future.” After he left Norman
said “I’ll have prickly-pears
planted at once all oyer that
ground. That will stop visitors
in helicopters drop-
ping in on me.”
I think that I de-
livered the final
blow with machines
when he came out of
the studio to see a
bulldozer in the pad-
dock.
“What’s all that
noise?” he asked.
“Only that,” I re-
plied, meekly look-
ing at the red giant
which, at that
moment, was top-
pling a great stringy-
bark.
“I’m only having
a bit of ground
cleared,” I ex-
plained.
He soon halted
the onslaught, mark-
ing off trees that
must be left, leaving
a very puzzled bull-
dozer-driver.
“That’s the last
straw. Bringing a
thing like that here,”
he said, slamming
the studio door.
Of the visitors to Springwood
there lingers a memory of David
McKee Wright,
He called one Saturday after-
noon, the only time that he
visited us.
I had not seen him since the
days when he edited the Red
Page and used to walk up and
down the stairs, with his mass
of hair brushed back like the
lion in Wirth’s circus. He
had a light in his eyes and
a kindly smile for all as
he passed through the
office, “I do not know
much about Australia, but
I do know the poetry of
David McKee Wright,” an
American said to me in
San Francisco.
When I opened the door
to him and said “Come
in,” he hesitated with one
foot on the step and said
“I just felt that I would
like to see Norman/ I
won’t disturb him, will I?” He
sat down and, in a shaft of late-
afternoon sunlight across the
room, his shaggy white hair
looked as if it had been dipped
in lime. His face was white,
too, the only touch of color
being his faded blue eyes. He
repeated “I only want to see
Norman. I won’t disturb him,
will I?”
When Norman came in he
still seemed to be rather vague
as to why he came. “Felt I’d
like to see you,” he kept on re-
peating. Norman led him on
to talk of poetry, and David
quoted some of Zora Cross.
“But what did he come
to see me for?” Norman said to
me when he came to tell me to
drive him to the station to catch
the train to Glenbrook, where
he was then living.
As I drove up the road he
kept on looking up at the sky
and tall trees as if he had just
come to see them, too,
I never saw him again. He
died soon after.
Mclntosh rang * me from
Bon Accord and said that Earl
Beauchamp would like me to
come to supper. I went, and he
entertained his party in his bed-
room.
His son Hugo and his secre-
Leon Gellert, dry-point by Norman
Lindsay; frontispiece to Gellert’s “The
Isle of San,” published in 1919 by “Art
in Australia.” The book, which as well
has five original etchings by Norman, is
now a collector-item.
tary, an alert young mother with
her languid daughter, a gent
and two blondes made up the
party, with Mac very busy, in
and out to see that all was well
and bringing sandwiches. A
large ice-cooler on the floor was
full of champagne bottles.
I sat on the bed next to
Beauchamp, who dived a hand
under his pillow and showed me
his new white silk pyjamas
piped with black —just arrived
from England. We felt the
lovely silk tenderly.
The two blondes sipped
champagne, all eyes for Hugo,
who was tall, fair and plain. His
conversation mostly consisted of
giggles at the girls and “Yes,
sir,” and “No, sir,” to his father,
who seemed very proud of him ;
and told me that he could not
see his wife unless he made an
appointment through his secre-
tary. “You see, she is a West-
minister,” he said. He spoke
with much admiration of the
Prince of Wales.
Mac persuaded the languid
daughter to do a Javanese
dance. % He said “Nothing like
her. Been studying in Java-
must have had her wrist-bones
cracked to do - it,” as the girl
proceeded to twist and sway her
arms, breaking a string of coral
in the act and refusing to allow
me to gather them up.
“Oh, they don’t matter,” she
said, treading recklessly on them
as she postured in her long black
satin skirt swathed with a red-
and-white satin sash and little
above. She was slim and blonde
with heavily-blacked lashes and
blue make-up on her lips which
made her eyes look like two
blue Wedgwood saucers. Her
solid, dark lad was enraptured
as she danced.
Beauchamp whispered to me
“He’s in for it.”
The last I saw of Beauchamp
was a few weeks later when he
rang to ask me to lunch at Bon
Accord to say good-bye as he
was returning to England. I
was alone and said I couldn’t
leave the house, so he came to
say farewell.
When Percy Grainger waS in
Australia last I sent him a few
etchings, remembering his kind-
ness to us in New York in 1930.
He phoned to say that he and
Ella would like to come up. I
said “Norman is in Sydney.”
“I know,” he said, “but we
want to come up.”
When he arrived he was carry-
ing a large knapsack and various
parcels. “Are you going hik-
ing?” I asked, remembering that
he did hike in the snows of
America.
No. He had brought the etch-
ings back and wanted me to help
him select the one that he was
to have. “But they are all for
you,” I said, “and now you’ll
have to carry them back.”
“I have all my Eastern records
to play to you,” he said, and
while he was unpacking them
said with regret that he had been
unable to bring his Turkish
towels to show me.
“We have ninety now.”
“What are you going to do
with them?” I asked.
“Wear them for coats and
wraps,” he said.
I had prepared a nice lunch
of caviare, chicken, green-peas,
new potatoes, apple-pie and
cream, wine and whisky.
“I am a vegetarian. Just a
few peas. Have you any nuts?
And a glass of water?”
He went to the kitchen search-
ing for nuts and came back
with a soggy fruit-cake that I
had discarded as a failure after
putting a pound of everything
into it, including sugar and
butter and a dozen eggs. He
was delighted at the first taste,
and made his lunch off it and
then asked if he could take the
remainder home.
Ella ate heartily and restored
my pride.
Percy offered to play the
piano.
“It’s out of tune,” I said.
“I like them like that.” He
played for a couple of hours,
then put on all his gramophone
records, with explanations as
they played.
Ella told me how she had
first met Percy when they were
travelling on the same ship and
she was arranging a concert;
and seeing Percy always at the
piano, she asked him
if he would play for
the concert. He agreed,
and spelt his name for
her when she asked
what it was.
A passenger, on see-
ing the programme,
said how wonderful
it would be to have
him playing, and told
Ella that he was a
well-known pianist.
She rushed back to* him
and said “I am so em-
barrassed. I didn’t know. I
thought you were one of
the ship’s band.”
Gruner told me that he had
always tried to serve me when
I went into the draper’s shop
where he worked in Pitt-street,
because he knew that I was a
model. He seemed to think that
I remembered him behind the
counter quite well, but I had to
strain my memory to place a
thin, pale-faced man in a bow-
tie.
He spoke bitterly of his period
in a draper’s shop, and it was
never wise to bring it up in con-
versation in later years.
The first time that Norman
and I visited his house in Bondi
(not the house he died in) was
one evening when he asked us to
come and listen to Wagner. He
had just bought a gramophone.
When we arrived the door was
open and the hall-lamp shaded
in flowered cretonne. His old
mother, in a full, gathered, black
silk dress pinned with a large
cameo brooch, was very bright
and anxious for gossip.
His friend Lecky made the
coffee in a small, spotless, blue-
and-white kitchen and served it
in cups to match. We sipped it
in dimmed light while Lecky
quietly changed the records.
In a loud whisper the old lady
said to me “They are mad over
this Wagner,” pronouncing the
W and g as, in English, which
made Gruner squirm.
I visted them a couple of times
again before she died in Birrell-
street. She complained that they
wouldn’t let her do any work,
not even the washing-up. The
house was neat and shining and
clean. After she died Gruner
enlarged the lounge-room and
had pale-grey walls and the
lounge-suite upholstered in deep-
blue. There was a period carpet
and chandelier, a pair of silver
candlesticks on the mantlepiece
and always a bowl of flowers on
a small Chippendale table against
the wall.
When Mary Lindsay,
Norman’s sister, came to Sydney
for a visit Gruner dined with us
at the Australia, and we spent
the evening in the Winter
Garden. Syd Smith, Leon
Gellert and Hugh McCrae joined
us, apd Lambert came in after
the theatre with some theatricals
of whom he made pencil sketches
while we had drinks. He pre-
tended that people around the
room didn’t notice him sketch-
ing, but he took care that they
did by holding his pad at arm’s
length and comparing it intently
with the original, and the waiters
paused behind his chair to look
at the sketch.
It was a pleasant evening.
McCrae’s hearty laughter seemed
to infect the whole room ; even
the waiters were smiling, and one
bald-headed man sitting dn his
own against the wall, drinking,
laughed loudly every time Mac
did.
We stayed so long after mid-
night that Syd missed the last
train to Wahroonga, so we got a
taxi, and Mac, Mary, Leon and
I took him home. It was a lovely
moonlight drive across the horse-
ferry and up the road to
Wahroonga, Sydney took us in
for drinks and we danced to a
gramophone. A nice-looking,
dark young aunt of the kids’
came out of bed and danced
sleepily, in a silk kimono and
her hair loose, with Gruner; in
the dining-room where there was
A little-known and unusual depiction
of David McKee Wright soon after
he came to Sydney from New
Zealand. It was said of him that
“his only use for an enemy was to
forgive him.”
a cedar sideboard with a crystal
bowl of fruit on it.
Then we took Leon home to
Mosman, and his wife got up and
we sat on the carpet for more
music and drinks. Mac lived
near Leon’s, and we left him
joyously leaping over Leon’s
garden-hedge in the moonlight
and set out for Bondi to take
Gruner home.
We had coffee, and Mary and
I returfled to the hotel and fell
into bed at 6 a.m.
(i Continued on page 30}


ifiILZeSS
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WAkKER
real good Scotch
It was hoped to bring you more Johnnie Walker from
Scotland this year. But even the best-laid plans can go
astray. More precious than ever now is the little Johnnie
Walker that import restrictions allow for your enjoyment.
Every drop Distilled
and Blended in
Scotland
JW.147.12
OPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5| ins. x 3 h ins.,
61 x 3§ and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan jjj;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Prtnte
304-306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SUNSHINE ON THE COLD WAR
“The Soviet leaders have
initiated what presents to you
and to me one of the most per-
plexing problems of our time. It
is a problem that I think is
largely due to a misnomer. The
Kremlin launched what is com-
monly called a ‘peace offensive.’
Whatever it is that the Kremlin
has launched—and no one can
be sure just yet what it is—it is
not a peace offensive. It is a peace
defensive.”— U.S. Secretary of
Statt Dulles.
♦ * * ♦
Whether the sunshine so sud-
denly beaming from Moscow in
a variety of rays is genuine or
synthetic, likely to thaw-out the
cold war or designed to warm a
suspicious West into a summer
sleep, the definite appearance is
that Malenkov (as Russia-expert
Edward Crankshaw sums-up in
London “Observer”) has
“switched the Kremlin line in
the direction of less aggression
[abroad] and milder action at
home.”
In the estimate of “New York
Times’s” chief foreign corres-
pondent, C. L. Sulzberger,
“There seems valid reason to
believe that, for whatever pur-
pose, sincere or devious, Moscow
means business this time.”
“Little doubt remains,” Lon-
don “Daily Herald” considers,
“that an important change has
taken place in the hierarchy of
the Soviet Union. Its exact
meaning cannot be dogmatically
described; but the evidence is
overwhelming.”
* * * ♦
As seen by London “Daily
Mail,” “The news from Russia
grows more startling, more sig-
nificant—and more puzzling, for
no one can interpret it with
absolute certainty.” Pending
clarification, all the develop-
ments (in London “Observer’s”
view) “indicate that we are deal-
ing with a new Government in
Russia which should not be
automatically identified with the
Stalin regime, and which ought
to be judged anew.”
That view would appear to
be shared to some extent in
Washington, according to the re-
port of a New York “Herald
Tribune” correspondent there:
“Within the private confines
of the Eisenhower Administra-
tion it is becoming increasingly
evident that Russia’s peace over-
tures are being taken far more
seriously than is indicated by
the cautious public pronounce-
ments from the President and
Secretary of State Dulles. There
is a growing belief that what
appeared at first to be a tactical
switch in Russian policy is now
developing into a grand strategi-
cal manoeuvre of profound sig-
nificance.”
Certainly that represents a re-
markable change, noted by a
“New York Times” correspond-
ent at U.N.0.: “The principal
objection raised to our [U.S.A.]
policy under the Truman Ad-
ministration—which was felt by
our friends as well as by the
fence-sitters was that the
United States always appeared
to cast a jaundiced eye on any
Soviet move, whether serious or
otherwise, to settle a problem.
Many, if not all, of these moves
unquestionably were intended to
put us in the wrong, but our
failure even to explore the
theme has been a big help to
Communist propaganda.”
Apparently, that at least is not
to happen with the current Mos-
cow “peace” moves, though (as
the quoted “Herald Tribune”
correspondent notes) “no one
in the Eisenhower Administra-
tion feels that an end of the cold
war is just around the corner.”
* * * *
Most viewers of the apparent
Kremlin change are cagey.
German Chancellor Adenauer
is widely quoted: “Up to the
present I can see no convincing
evidence of any change from
the former course of Soviet
policy.” Marshal Tito is quoted
by an Edinburgh “Scotsman”
correspondent as having pri-
vately forecast in London that
the Malenkov regime actually
does intend “at least a three-
year breathing space.”
“What is clear,” “Manchester
Guardian” has editorially com-
mented, “is that we may expect
change of some kind, and this
in itself is a great change from
the rigidity of the last few
years.”
Views on just what the
change amounts to or may sig-
nify are given in the following
representative extracts from the
miles of continuing overseas
comment ;
* * * *
New York “Herald Tribune”
editorial: “The whole present
course of leniency at home and
conciliation abroad may be de-
signed to bridge a perilous,
domestic situation and win
—“New York Times"
A GOOD ACT—IF THE CHAIR DOESN’T SLIP
specific points in foreign affairs.
But at the same time it lets a
little light into the darkness in
which the Communist masses
dwell —and once a people has
glimpsed the sun it is hard to
blind them again.”
* * * *
C. L. Sulzberger (“New York
Times”): “Either Moscow’s
leopard has changed its spots
and really wants to lie down
quietly with the rest of the
world. Or it is fearful of
mounting Western power and
its own internal weakness. Or,
for a calculated period, it wishes
to spike the rearming of Western
Germany and induce a dangerous
reduction of foreign aid by an
economy-minded United States
before contemplating a new
round of dynamism.”
* * * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“We are facing a period in which
muddle - headed, starry - eyed
wishful-thinking could do untold
harm. The rulers of Russia are
still the criminals they were.
We should look any gift-horse
from them, not only #n the
mouth, but in every part of its
anatomy.”
* * * *
London “News Chronicle”
writer: “Fear of world war, and
fear of a rearmed Germany:
there, I think, you have it.”
* * * *
Joseph and Stewart Alsop
(from Washington, in New York
“Herald Tribune”): “The Soviet
rulers probably actually do want
to end the fighting in Korea.
Moreover, the Korean move may
portend a new Soviet policy-
line which will subject the mettle
of the West to a test at least as
severe as the Korean war itself.
This about sums up the majority
view of the experts who have
been studying the recent signs
and portents from Moscow.”
* * * *
JJN.O. correspondent, “New
York Times”: “The Soviet
Union has embarked on a for-
midable attempt to bring about
by conciliatory gestures—per-
haps some of them will turn
out to be deeds as well—what it
had failed to accomplish with
every sort of provocative action
during the six years ,of the cold
war.
“It is clear that the new rulers
of the Kremlin are seeking noth-
ing less than a major shift in the
world balance of power that will
put them on even terms, or
better, wjth the aggregate force
of the United States and the free
nations that have joined us to
meet the threat of Communist
imperialism.”
* * * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“It is not impossible that Mr.
Malenkov is attempting to
liberalise the regime, though
not to the extent of weakening
the central fact of dictatorship.
The Russian people have lived
under a cruel strain that has
lasted for all the adult life of
the middle-aged and which is
the only condition which the
fairly young have known since
the day of their birth. Possibly
Mr. Malenkov feels the time has
come to ease the strain, per-
haps only temporarily. But if
this is his purpose he may find
that the machinery of terror
cannot be easily started up
again.”
* * * *
London “Spectator”: “The
tentative steps towards a new
policy which have been taken
by, or attributed to, Mr. Malen-
kov since Stalin died do not
amount to much in themselves.
Nobody really knows just how
far Russian influence helped to
produce the turn for the better
in the Korean negotiations, and
there are some reasons for
doubting whether the Moscow
influence over Peking is a direct
or important factor in Chinese
policy. Beyond that, an easing
of the controls on traffic be-
tween Berlin and the West, the
opening of a conference on the
possibility of giving Western
aircraft over Germany some
assurance that they will not be
summarily shot down by
Russians, an expression of affa-
bility on the face of Mr. Molo-
tov in New York and a few
acts of reserved fraternisation
by Russians elsewhere do not
amount to much. It could all
be switched off as easily and as
suddenly as it was switched on.”
Same: “Nobody knows how
far the Russian leaders* are
willing to go in their new-found
mood of incipient reasonable-
ness. But the distance they have
to go before the world is a safe
place is so great that not much
room is left for wild emotion.
“They could make a start by
ceasing to obstruct a peace
settlement in Austria —the settle-
ment that could have been made
without undue difficulty at any
time in the past seven years.
But that is only a start. They
must withdraw their forces from
Germany. They must transform
their influence over the East
European satellites from one of
semi-imperialistic pressure to
one of friendship and, if they
wish, of peaceful persuasion.
They must make an entirely new
approach to the problem of dis-
armament —an approach in
which deeds match words. They
must stop treating the United
Nations as an instrument of
Russian policy, which must be
made to work in their favor or
be prevented from working at
all. They must stop giving aid
and comfort to Communists
who are in armed revolt against
legally established Governments
throughout the world, and in
Asia in particular.
“These are simply the first
general heads in a genuinely
peaceful Russian policy. They
have only to be set down in
words to make it plain that it
will take years to work out the
whole programme.”
* * * *
London “Economist” : “If the
Russians make small, human
and reasonable gestures such as
the British Ambassador has
been discussing with Molotov,
then other gestures should be
made in return. But they
should be on the same scale ; one
does npt exchange an embrace
for a bow. At the same time
the allies would do well to study
together, through diplomatic
channels and in the strictest
secrecy, what would be their
agreed terms for general and
particular negotiation with the
Russians. For it is as clear as
anything can be that the reason
why some people in the West
are a little nervous of peace—
and they should not be ashamed
to admit it —is because a serious


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS,
J. W. DUNLOP, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
DOCTORS ■
STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
'
ms
ms
mwm.
mm
m
m
More successful men use
HE LOOKED
SMART
AND GOT
THE JOD!
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
With that clean, s-m-o-o-t-h, successful look. Bill’s
a credit to his Company. Your shaves, too, will
look good and feel good with Palmolive the
Shaving Cream that gives 3 men out of every 4 a
better shave. Proof? Here it is. We asked 1,251
men to try it . . . 81% reported "Beards easier to
cut" ... 76% said "Less razor pull . . . 71% said
"Closer shaves.” ... 80% found “Smoother-feeling
skin.” But you be the judge. Follow the example
of successful men. Get smoother, more comfortable
shaves With Palmolive Lather Shaving Cream.
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
The shaving c ream
of successful men
• /'EXECUTIVES • SALESMEN • LAWYERS
PSB/ UI .
and reasonable Russian peace-
offer made now, whether in
Europe or the Far East, would
reveal differences of view and
interest among the allies which
they have not seriously tried to
resolve because it has not been
necessary to do so. If ever there
was a time for the West to prac-
tise secret diplomacy, and to put
a curb on wishful public specu-
lation, it is now.”
• • • «
Same (editorial summing-up):
“If, however, there is to be
speculation, let it be based on
the plentiful facts of the past, as
well as the few facts of the pre-
sent. There is no evidence at
all that the basic Soviet aim—
the ultimate world predominance
of Communism—has changed ;
there is only evidence of a
change of tactics and timing.
Malenkov at 52 can look further
ahead than could Stalin at 73 ;
he may be anxious, above all,
to buy time. The wise course
for the West is not to heave
sighs of relief but to decide what
terms it would bring to the con-
ference-table and what strength
it needs to make its case
respected.”
J. Bull’s Far East
Britain’s policy of hoping for
the best in the Far East, and
meanwhile being “patient,” as
editorially explained by London
“Times” :
“The British attitude to the
Far Eastern dilemma has a
strong Micawber flavor which
lays it open to satire from more
thrustful pleaders. Opinion here
[in Britain] favors a policy of
caution and patience in dealings
with the Chinese. *
“It would be exceedingly diffi-
cult to drive the Chinese out of
Korea, and even if a series of
hard blows forced them a hun-
dred miles north of their present
positions Mao Tse-tung would
presumably remain as sensitive
as ever to the proximity of non-
Asian divisions and aircraft on
the very doorstep of Manchuria.
A spring offensive by the Eighth
Army might hurt the enemy
badly, but still bring peace no
closer.
“Britain prefers to see Korea
as one segment of the Far
Eastern theatre as a whole.
Because that wider struggle in
Asia is political as much as mili-
tary, the best strategy to ease the
pressure in Korea could easily
become the worst strategy to
retain the friendship of the
various Asian peoples.
“For this reason Great Britain
has constantly to consider what
effect a blockade of the China
coast, diversionary attacks from
Formosa, or air strikes across
the Yalu river would have on
Indian or Malayan opinion.
Looking still farther ahead, she
questions whether Russia’s and
China’s interests in the East are
permanently identical unless
the free world’s tactics make
them so.
“But though it is always wise
to look before one leaps, yet
someone may have to leap at
some time if the Korean stale-
mate is to be broken. Because
the United States contribution
to that war has been both vast
and painful, Americans tend to
be less patient than Europeans.
The new U.S. Administration,
like its predecessor, sees Russia
and China as an indissoluble
union....
“The task of the United
Nations is to find the best means
to reconcile the real and reason-
able aims of the new American
Administration and the more
cautious —and perhaps too pas-
sive—aims of its European and
Asian friends.”
Korean P.-o.-w.
“By the Geneva Convention
of 1946,” London “Daily Tele-
graph” points out, “repatriation
of prisoners shall take into
account ‘the interests of the
prisoners themselves.’
“These interests,” it com-
ments, “cannot be said to be
considered if prisoners are driven
back at bayonet-point to meet
what grim fate is in store for
them.
“There are two reasons why
the Communists are stubborn
on this. One reason is that they
quite sincerely regard human
beings as the raw material of
— “Franc-Tireur,” Paris
“TO GO OR NOT TO GO? THAT IS THE QUESTION!”
the State and prisoners-of-war
as lost property which must be
returned without any question
as to the feelings of the property.
The other reason is the refusal
to accept the immense loss of
face which is implicit in the
refusal of so many Chinese
prisoners to go home.”
World Leaders
British Chancellor of the
Exchequer R. A. Butler, in a
“U.S. News and World Report”
interview:
“The engineering industries of
the United Kingdom have in the
last dozen years greatly
expanded, and made striking
technical progress. They are
world leaders in a number of
fields.
“In electrical engineering there
are the examples of big contracts
for transformers awarded to
British firms for the Garrison
Dam project in North Dakota,
the Folsom Dam in California
and for development in the city
of Seattle —all in competition
with American industry.
“Special British steel, and
British skill, are also going into
the making of the Tampa Bay
bridge in Florida, which, when
finished in 1954, will be the
largest prestressed concrete
bridge in the world.”
Russia's Navy
There was a wild rush of
headlines and editorials after
the First Lord of the Admiralty,
J. P t L. Thomas, had told the
House of Commons that Russia
has the second-largest navy in
commission in the world today
—till someone pointed out that
“in commission” doesn’t mean
the second-largest navy.
Numbers given were: 20
very powerful cruisers, over 100
destroyers and more than 350
submarines.
But apart from numbers
there’s the matter of quality, on
which aspect a London “Daily
Express” writer comments;
“Those 350 submarines have
nol only to be manned, but
manned by the right crews. A
sense of the sea, a sense Of dis-
cipline, an inherited understand-
ing gf naval warfare —these the
British have, the Americans may
yet more fully display, but the
Russians certainly have not.
“Even if the Russian Navy
were manned by a race of fight-
ing seamen the danger would not
be as pessimists have painted it.
The Russian Navy is the second-
largest in commission, but it
lags far into inferiority com-
pared with the combined Anglo-
American power. Sea-power
rests on three things—ships,
skill and economic strength.
Russia has the ships. Britain
and America have the ships and
the skill and the economic
strength,”
German Atoms
West German rearmament
(notes an Edinburgh “Scots-
man” correspondent) would
pave the way to German
development of atomic energy;
“The Bonn Government has
already sounded the Western
Powers about release from a
clause in the Contractual Agree-
ments forbidding atomic-energy
production, once the European
Army Treaty is through. First
reactions are favorable, provided
the object is peaceful.
“The Bonn Government have
already set preparations going.
Uranium is to be brought from
the Black Forest, where acces-
sible reserves are estimated to
contain at least 10 tons. A
systematic survey has been con-
ducted by Professor Franz
Nircheimer, director of the
Baden-Wurtemberg Geological
Institute, since 1951. Theoretical
studies have been in progress at
the universities for some time.
And West Germany is already
a member of the 10-nation Euro-
pean Nuclear Research Council
which is to build a laboratory in
Switzerland.”
Dragnet Digest
Upturn Year. London
“News Chronicle” hopes it’ll be
a permanent one for the
calendar; “This is the Corona-
tion year, the year when a new
and unwonted lightness of spirit
pervades the Isles of Britain, the
year of what we hope and almost
expect will be the Upturn.”
What’s a Com.? —The “Capi-
tal Times,” of Madison, Wis.,
right in Sehator McCarthy’s
own State, lately polled readers
on this question. Among the
publishable answers, a book-
keeper replied: “A person who
believes in the socialist form of
government. I’m not sure I
know what I’m talking about,”
A farmer said. “I don’t know
what they are, to come down to
it. You hear a lot about them
all the time, though.” And a
housewife put it this way: “I
don’t know much about it, I
really don’t know what a Com-
munist is. I think they should
throw them out of the White
House.”
This Machine Age. —Summed-
up in a sentence by “Yorkshire
Post”: “The whole of modern
civilisation is built upon the
possession of machines ; and the
combination of warlike power
and peaceful prosperity which
the United States enjoys is a
lasting proof of the power in-
herent in great capital equip-
ment.”
“Peace” Trap. —Noted by
London “Time and Tide”:
“There are all kinds of muddle-
headed people in Britain and in
France who will use the Russian
gestures as an argument that it
is not necessary to rearm, or
only necessary to rearm to a
less degree.”, And not only in
Britain and France, either.
“Simple Truths” Leading
American foreign-affairs writers
Joseph and Stewart Alsop; “If
the fighting ends in Korea it
will certainly become harder for
the United States-and its weary
allies to remember the simple
truths. These are that words of
sweet reason from the Kremlin
do not affect the vast military
power of the Soviet Union, nor
the constantly growing Soviet
stockpile of atomic bombs, nor
the ultimate purposes of the men
in the Kremlin.”
Dilemma for France. —In the
face of Russian “peace” moves
affecting German unity, the
country which now has to do
some very hard and very fast
thinking is France, suggests
London “Observer”; “If France
still sets any store by the policy
of a West European Union, on
the basis of the Schuman Plan
and the European Defence
Community which she initiated
three years ago, this may be her
last chance of carrying it to suc-
cess. If Russia reacts positively
to the new Eisenhower-
Adenauer offer [on all-German
free elections] France will be
left with the choice of either
renegotiating European Union
with a far stronger united Ger-
many of 70,000,000 —or con-
fronting such a Germany with-
out any supra-national links at
all.”
Gifts for Adenauer. —The
German Chancellor on his visit
to America, suggests London
“Financial Times,” must have
been almost embarrassed by the
number of American gifts
showered upon him, including
no fewer than 350 light naval
vessels, confiscated from Ger-
many by the United States at
the end of the war.
Uncle Sam Well Aloft. —
Extraordinary bit of informa-
tion from a long article by Lon-
don “Daily Telegraph’s” air
correspondent, Air-Commodore
L. G. S. Payne: “The total num-
ber of large and medium-sized
aircraft in service with the
world’s airlines is about 3800.
Only 1250 are four-engined
types. Of the total, over 3000
are American-built.”
Brotherhood Biblical note
by London “Daily Telegraph”:
“The aftermath of the Second
World War convinced all except
a handful who had lost all con-
tact with reality or honesty that
the Kremlin interpreted brother-
hood not in terms of David and
Jonathan but of Cain and Abel.”
Canada’s Choice. —Debunk-
ing the notion that a lowering
of U.S. tariffs would solve
Britain’s dollar problem, the
Cincinnati (U.S.A.) “Post” com-
ments ; “American visitors to
Canada see so many American
products they are hardly aware
of having crossed the border.
Yet British products of the same
kind may enter Canada at lower
tariffs than ours in almost every
instance, because of the Im-
perial-preference system of
trade. Sixty per cent, of the
imports from Britain bear no
duty at all.”
Next “Peace” Target. —
Almost certain to be Germany,
according to American ap-
praisals. If so, comments New
York “Herald Tribune,” two
tests would be crucial: Would
Russia offer free elections in
all Germany, and would it re-
lease the hundreds of thousands
of German prisoners held in
the Soviet Union as prisoners-
of-war or displaced persons?
“The guarantee of free elections,
in particular, would mean a re-
versal so complete of Russia’s
course to date, and of what
appears to be Russia’s interests,
as to require a reappraisal by
West Germany of her existing
policy.”


600,000-
Americans can't be wrong!!
Yes! This figure represents the number of
machines sold in the U.S.A. since the intro-
duction of SHOPSMITH in 1949.
Join the ranks of satisfied
SHOPSMITH owners and
possess the most versatile wood-
working machine of modern
times. Now made in Australia
by C. C. Engineering Industries
Ltd.
w
(1) As a Circular Saw
■
(2) As a Disc Sander
(3) As a Lathe
Multi-
purpose
Multi-
profit
(4) As a Drill Press (5) As a Horizontal Drill
Manufactured by
C. C. ENGINEERING INDUSTRIES LTD.
under license from Magna Engineering Corp., U.S.A.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. (Sydney Metropolitan Area)
C. C. DISTRIBUTORS PTY. LTD.
213 Bridge Road', Glebe, N.S.W.
lemonstration & Showroom: 125 a York St., Sydney. 8X7044
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd., Sydney. Nock & Kirby Ltd., Sydney.
N.S.W. (Country Distributors)
A. J. Ellerker, 63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ictoria: J. R. Hall & Co., 500 Bourke St., Melbourne. Hardware Co. of
Australia, 71-75 Queen’s Bridge St., South Melbourne.
rest Australia: Watson Bros. Pty. Ltd., 363 Murray St., Perth.
outh Australia: Harris Scarfe Ltd., Grenfell St., Adelaide.
ueensland: Ellerker Bros., 261 Wickham St., Valley, Brisbane.
asmania; J. R. Hall & Co., 50 Esplanade, Devonport.
SHOPSMITH
WOOD-WORKING
MACHINE
In a matter of moments. Shop-
smith can be adapted for use as
a . . . Disc Sander, Drill Press,
Circular Saw, Horizontal Drill,
or Wood Lathe. Shopsmith’s
rugged, practical design allows
for accurate duplication of any
precision job. Powered by a
dependable \ h.p. electric
motor (Motors to suit local
conditions—A.C. or D.C. also
available).
SHOPSMITH may be pur-
chased on the most attractive
easy terms.
ESTABLISHED [SSB
SPECIAL HOSPIT
(juu,? l • I1 " BV DISTILLED ano.botto*'*
If. ’•EISON crater tr pmiL AD£tAlO»; .
<irs°" ST " ECT - ST. PEUHS. AOIIWPJj
Toil iv SCOTT * TOUIT
When the
occasion calls
for the best!
N.S.W. DISTRI
T5T.22.t2
BUTORS: TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
concussion (for the mangel-
wurzel is a shrewd weapon) were
wheeled out to enjoy the com-
parative safety of the women’s
care.
The tent burnt rather funnily.
The thin, yellow, cotton lining
flared up first, and lighted up
the damp outer-covering, round
which twenty black goannas
could be seen running dis-
tractedly in a daemonic dance.
They finally reached the top of
the tent-pole and actually planed
down, to the safe asylum of the
long grass. There must have
been some ancient scandal in
their family.
Entranced, the crowd watched
the fire. Some busied themselves
making a fire-break. Some, even
more busily, wondered why the
fire-brigade did not arrive?
Then someone asked “Where is
the Mayor of Parramatta?”
“Where is his Worship!”
The cry quickly spread.
“Who saw him last?”
Mr. Ponting said he remem-
bered seeing a Dural Husky
throw a “Pieman’s Wonder” at
him.
The Dural Husky owned to
shoving the Mayor’s senseless
form under the platform—“for
safety, like.”
A shout went up.
“His Worship’s lying senseless
under the platform.”
“His Worship will be burned
to death.”
The flames, by this time sky-
high, had got a greedy hold of
the outer tent. It was Dr.
Phantom who, as usual, thought
most quickly. He rushed for-
ward, and in the midst of an
appalling orange glare was seen
to,/ run back into the burning
marquee —now on the point of
collapsing.
Immediately everyone began
shouting, “Where is Mrs.
Phantom?” “She must be told.”
“Fetch Mrs. Phantom!”
And as many women as could
tear themselves away from so
much drama rushed off to the
refreshment-tent, and burst in
calling, “Oh, Mrs. Phantom,
come at once! Your husband's
being burned to death! There’s
nothing can save him! The
marquee’s on the point of col-
lapsing.”
WHILE Lady Willing-Toper,
always calm in an
emergency, burnt the feathers
from her bonnet under the faint-
ing Mrs. Phantom’s nose, these
messengers of ill (“What fun it
has been” ; “She went down like
a ninepin”; “Expecting, too,
poor dear”); rushed back just
in time to see a Dr. Phantom
whom no one could recognise
emerge from the wall of flame
that had once been a tent, the
Mayor of Parramatta slung over
his shoulder.
Did everyone cheer?
Did everyone then have the
gratification of seeing a dis-
tracted young wife —the stately
Fragrance Phantom {nee Thistle-
dew) throw herself into her
husband’s arras?
Was the Lady Mayoress her-
self revived with hartshorn?
His Worship r|Cover?
Did comparative amity reign
for some months between the
men of Parramatta and its
neighboring hamlets? So that
when every man Jack met every
other man Jack, they would dig
each other in the ribs and
exult?
The answers are Yes, yes, yes,
yes ; ah yes.
Gruner came to Springwood
one Sunday about six weeks
before he died. His friend Brian
was driving the car. Gruner
looked ill and nervy, and I asked
him to stay for a holiday. He
said that he had to go down the
coast to do a painting, and that
he would come back as soon as
it was completed in a month’s
time and stay till he got well.
I was in Sydney;, and, hearing
that Gruner was home, went to
see him. I met Brian near his
house and he told me that he
was just going out to send me a
wire to say that they could not
come.
“Gruner is very ill, and dying,”
he said.
He took me back to the house,
where there was a relation of
Gruner’s and a nurse. They told
me that he was very low and
didn’t know anyone. They didn’t
want anyone to see him. I came
away depressed, and went to a
wrestling-match with a friend,
who said to me as we came out
of the Stadium, “You look
worried.”
“I am. I want to go back to
Gruner’s.”
So he drove me out at mid-
night, and they told me that he
was sinking fast and that I could
just look at him. I went into the
dimly-lit room. A nurse was
standing by the window, Gruner
lying on a low bed-couch. I
knelt down and kissed his hand
on the cqver. He rose slightly
on his pillow, grey-faced and
faintly smiling. “It’s Rose,” he
said weakly, taking my hand to
his lips. He sank back and I
went out quietly. Crossle (Dr.
Francis Crossle, himself since
dead) came in at 1 a.m. drawn-
faced and weary. He had been
constantly with Gruner for days
and nights.
Gruner died early that
morning.
J. F. Archibald came to stay
for a weekend visit at Spring-
wood soon after the death of
Henry Lawson. The people’s
regret at Henry’s passing (to use
the correct phrase) was so great
that one still lowered the voice
to speak of him.
xArchie did so as he took me
aside with a merry twinkle in his,
eyes to tell me of his visit to
Mrs. Byers, Henry’s house-
keeper.
“It will never do to let it out
—Henry’s last words. No, it
would never do!” he said.
“Henry looked up at a broken
rod in the iron bedstead-top, and
said ‘l’ll mend that when I get
up.’ ”
Weeping bitterly, Mrs. Byers
told Archie that she had
repeatedly asked Henry to mend
it and now it would never be
done. “Oh, no, it would never
do to let that out!” Archie
chortled.
The moral is obvious: mend
bed-tops and they are off the
mind at the last moments. Still,
Henry might have done worse
and made some puerile remark
like Anatole France did when he
said “So this is death.” It may
have sounded better in French ;
it certainly sent a number of
French poets dithering to their
pens.
It is probably too soon to
speak of Henry’s tempers, but
one burst I particularly enjoy,
and I only wish that Henry had
used the iron rod instead of his
walking-stick when he rushed
into Bertram Stevens’s office and
bashed him on the head, for I
am still wrath with Stevens for
having lost a page of drawings
Earl Beauchamp, “caught
between duty and pleasure”
by Frith in 1930.
out of the Boccaccio book when
he had it on loan to reproduce
some in the “Lone Hand.” “It’s
just missing,” he said.
Bertram was very vague,
couldn’t understand what had
happened to it, any more than
he could understand why Henry
burst in and struck him on the
head.
I hope it is that same walking-
stick which is being preserved
in the Mitchell Library.
■ Miles Franklin came to stay
for the weekend soon after her
return from London about 1931.
It seemed to be the thing for
writers to visit Norman, and
most have done so, but I can’t
say the same for artists.
Very few have been here —
Gruner very rarely, Longstafl
for three days to paint Norman’s
portrait, Heysen for a weekend
when he nearly froze to death,
Lance Solomon for a few days
to wander round the grounds
and do some painting, and Percy
Lindsay about six times in the
thirty years that we have lived
here. I cannot recall any others,
but many writers I do, and Miles
Franklin vividly.
She looked a gentle little lady
in simple black with a white
lace scarf at her throat, and her
pert nose rising at every remark
she made as she jerked her head
back in quick little movements to
emphasise a statement or a
denial to one of Norman’s
theories. '
“No, you are quite wrong,
Norman,” was frequently on her
tongue. Which was very refresh-
ing, as most visitors are inclined
to no'd assent even if against
their convictions. But not Miles.
Back would go her head “No,
you are wrong, Norman,” and
at that it had to be left, for she
was a very forceful little lady.
I put her into a bedroom with
three windows to the morning
sun, thinking it would be nice for
her after dull old London.
When I took her morning-tea
in she was asleep under a black
umbrella anchored to the bed
with her lace scarf. She sat up
as brisk as a sparrow and told me
what she thought of early morn-
ing sunlight.


Missing Friends
TO JAMES STEWART THWAITES for-
merly of 1827 Malvern Road Glen Iris Vic-
toria but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that ISOBEL EMILY THWAITES
your wife has instituted proceedings
against you for divorce on the ground of
desertion UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the Office Of the Prothonotary of
the Supreme Court of Victoria at Mel-
bourne on or before the 19th day of
June 1953 the case may proceed in your
absence IF you intend to defend the
cause you must also file an answer in the
said office on or before the 29th day of
June 1953 AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that the sealed copy Petition and
copy Citation for you in this cause may
be obtained free on application to the
undersigned Solicitors AND THAT the
originals can be inspected at the Office of
the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court
of Victoria, MeIbourne.—HENDERSON
& BALL, 430 Little Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
TO FREDERICK CHARLES ROWLAND
formerly of South Merbein in the State
of Victoria but now of parts unknown. —
TAKE NOTICE that one HERBERT
GERALD WHAMOND of 10 Mersey Street
Box Hill in the sgid State has instituted
proceedings for Divorce against his wife
GLORIA PEARL WHAMOND of Oorowa
in the State of New South Wales on the
ground of adultery and has named you
as co-respondent UNLESS you enter an
appearance in the Office of the Prothono-
tary of the Supreme Court at Melbourne
on or before the Twenty-fifth day of June
One thousand nine hundred and fifty-three
the case may proceed in your absence IF
you intend to defend this suit you must
also file an answer in the said office on
or before the Seventh day of July One
thousand nine hundred and fifty-three.—
A. J. McNAMARA, of 89 Queen Street,
Melbourne, in the State of Victoria,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO RONALD JOHN WILSON late of
Bathurst and North Sydney, in the State
of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE
that MARY SUSAN WILSON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 835 of 1953 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years' and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
20th day of July 1953 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from R. H.
RICHARDS, Solicitor, 2nd Floor, Man-
chester Unity Building, 160 Oastlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO BESSIE LYDIA WALKER, whose last
known address was 27 Melody Street,
Coogee.—TAKE NOTICE that I, your hus-
band, HAROLD WALKER, of 27 Melody
Street, Coogee, sincerely request and de-
sire that you return to live with me at
my home at the undermentioned address
on or before the 29th day of May, 1958.
I posted a letter to you care of your step-
sister EDNA NEWMAN, of Forest Road,
Peakhurst.—HAßOLD WALKER, 27
Melody Street, Coogee.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO EDWARD SIDNEY WICKS formerly
of 32 Ross Street Newstead Brisbane in
the State of Queensland but whose present
hereabouts are unknown. —TAKE NOTICE
that SARAH ANN JANE WICKS has
commenced an action against you for dis-
solution of marriage numbered 221 of
1953 on the ground of desertion without
just cause for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane within
thirty days from the date of the publica-
tion hereof You may obtain without
charge a copy of the Writ of Summons
and Petition from DANIEL P. HEMPEN-
STALL, Solicitor, of Atlas Chambers,
27 Adelaide Street, Brisbane. DATED
this Twenty-ninth day of April, 1953.
F. J. RUSSELL, Second Deputy Registrar.
TILLEY Regd. Supreme 100%
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
For quality —for economy - —for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on li pints of Kero. 300 Candle Power,
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores MODEL X 246
Manufacturer’s Representatives: (“THE GUARDSMAN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
BRITISH
MADE
While
remaii
culty i
impdrt restrictions
you may have diffi-
i obtaining TILIIIEY
products.
POST-HOLE DIGGING
AT ITS LOWEST COST!
THE MOBILCO POST-HOLE DIGGER WITH ELECTRIC POST BORER gives
you really low cost fencing. With it/ one man
digs 30 clean, clear holes per hour —2 feet
8 inches deep and 6to 12 inches.in diameter.
Here's a machine which is easy to handle and
which operates at very low cost. 7 b.h.p.,
4-stroke engine. Guaranteed for 6
months.
YOURS FOR CASH Oft ON TERMS.
ELECTRIC
POST-HOLE
BORER
//' * I *< H
M
WRITE NOW FOR PARTICULARS OF THE
MOBILCO
POST.HOLE DIGGER
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. PHONE; WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES - - - - - BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
AGENTS •••••• ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of tljp old-time pantomime
song, the chorus of which began;
He was more like a friend than a husband.
He treated me more like a pal.
—5495.
Copy of print of Norman Lindsay
drawing “The Woman I Was.” —5494.
Origin of the quotation:
Hush ! I pray thee.
What if this friend, or stranger.
Should happen to be God ?
—5496.
To buy copy of His Native Wife
by Louis Becke, published by Alex
Lindsay, Sydney (1895). —5497.
To buy copies of Chunuma and
All About by Mary and Elizabeth
Durack. —5498.
Bulletin staff man, wife, two
children, urgently requires furnished
or unfurnished flat or cottage, any-
where in Sydney.—s 499.
Canadian stamp-collector would
like to get in touch with Australian
collectors. (Reply to Jack M. Hales,
212 King-street West, Toronto, On-
tario, Canada.)
Information Sought
Who wrote “Little Ji-ka Ji-ka,” an
Australian nursery-rhyme, printed in
The Bulletin over 35 years ago ?
What are the words?
The nursery rhyme was written by
Angela Kennedy. The words are:
Little Ji-ka Ji-ka! All the darkies like
hei
In her dainty Sunday dress and pinny.
Give her wattle-blossom and a joey
possum—•
She’s a good Australian piccaninny.
And she lives outside Benalla with her
father, Doutta Galla,
Who eats snakes for breakfast till he’s
pale.
He kills them with a waddy and devours
the head and body—•
And little Ji-ka Ji-ka eats the tail!
* 4= *
(1) Who is Seaforth Mackenzie, the
Australian novelist ? (2) How many
novels has he written ? (3) What is
the main characteristic of his prose
work ?
(1) Seaforth Mackenzie is the name
used by the poet Kenneth .Mackenzie
for his novels* He was born in 1913
at Guildford (W.A.) and received
most of his education in that State.
(2) Three; The Young Desire It
(1937), Chosen People (1938) and
Dead Men Rising (1952). (3) The
main characteristic of his first two
books is his preoccupation with
psychological problems and conflicts.
In Dead Men Rising (published in
America) he deals with the mass
attempt at escape by Japanese
p.-o-w. at a town easily identified
as Cowra (N.S.W.). It shows a con-
siderable technical advance on his
previous work. It is not available in
Australia.
* * * *
What volumes will comprise the
official history of Australia in the
war of 1939-45 ?
Series 1 (Army): To Benghazi try
Gavin Long (published), Greece,
Crete and Syria by Gavin Long,
Tobruk and El Alamein by Chester
Wilmot, The Japanese Thrust by
Lionel Wigmore, South-West Pacific
Area —First Year by Dudley Mc-
Carthy, The New Guinea Offensives
by David Dexter, The Final Cam-
paigns by Gavin Long. Series 2
(Navy): Royal Australian Navy, 1939-
42 by G. Hermon Gill, Royal Aus-
tralian Navy, 1942-45 by G. Hermon
Gill. Series 3 (Air): Royal Australian
Air Force, 1939-42 by Douglas Gilli-
son,. Air War Against Japan, 1943-45
by George J. Odgers, Air War Against
Germany and Italy, 1939-43 by John
Hetherington, Air Power Over Europe,
1944-45 by John Hetherington. Series
4 (Civil): The Government and the
People, 1939-41 by Paul Hasluck
(published), The Government and the
People, 1942-45 by Paul Hasluck,
War Economy, 1939-42 by S. J.
Butlin, War Economy, 1942-45 by S.
J. Butlin, The Role of Science and
Technology by D. P. Mellon Series
5 (Medical): Clinical Problems of
War by Allan S. Walker (published),
Middle East and Far East by Allan
S. Walker, The Island Campaign by
Allan S. Walker, and Medical Ser-
vices of R.A.N. and R.A.A.F. by
Allan S. Walker.
* * * *
What is a clerihew ?
A short, nonsensical or satirical
poem, usually of four lines of vary-
ing length. An example is:
Sir Christopher Wren
Said “I’m going to dine with some men.
If anyone calls
Say I’m designing St. Paul’s.”
* * * *
, Circumstances of the attempt to
assassinate the then Duke of Edin-
burgh in the 1800’s ? Exact date, and
who was the duke?
.Alfred (1844-1900), second son and
fourth child of Queen Victoria, was
created Duke of Edinburgh in 1865
on attaining his majority. (Later he
became Duke of Saxe-Coburg and
Gotha.) As commander of R.N. war-
ship Galatea, he left Plymouth on
Jan. 24, 1867, on a voyage round the
world. He was the first English
prince to visit Australia, and was
received with great enthusiasm. He
remained in Australia for nearly six
months, and it was on a second visit
to Sydney that, while attending a
public picnic at Clontarf (Sydney) in
aid of the Sailors’ Home, an Irish-
man named O’Farrell shot him in the
back with a revolver. The wound was
not dangerous, and within a month
the duke was able to resume com-
mand of his ship and return home.
O’Farrell was executed.
Brief Answers
F.P.: Yes, George Mackaness’s
Book of the “Bounty” is in Dent’s
Everyman’s Library. It contains
Bligh’s Voyage and Narrative of the
Mutiny; the Report of the Court
Martial; Correspondence; and a
Bibliography J. McT.: “Along the
Numa Numa Trail” by John Brennan
appeared in The Bulletin of August
15, 1945 A.E.H.: Write P. F.
Thomas, State Shopping Block, 49
Market-street, Sydney G.S.: Un-
able to supply a recipe which could
be carried out in the home by
amateurs. Recommend your buying
the flour from the Sanitarium Health
Food Co., 13 Hunter-street, Sydney.
P.H.: Enquire -first from the
suppliers who sold the cooker, or
its makers. Or can probably be
repaired by Anthony Hordern and
Sons, Ltd., George-street, Sydney.
Failing these, try an electrical repair
shop H.M.P.: Edwin ' Gerard
(“Gerardy”) was born on May 22,
1891, at Yunta (5.A.)... .G.W.: “The
Port Phillip Gazette” is published
quarterly by the Rising Sun Press,
192 Canterbury-road, Canterbury,
Victoria G.M.: Roland E. Robin-
son, the poet, was born on June 14,
1912, at Belbriggan, County Clare,
Ireland H.C.; The lines are from
the third stanza of “Horatius” by
Lord Macaulay M.F.: Write
Department of Labor and Industry,
Melbourne J.J.A.: Write Royal
Australian Historical Society, history
House, Young-street, Sydney
F.P.W.: Write _D. Raymond, Numis-
matist and Philatelist, 128 Bathurst-
street, Sydney P.N.: The S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize was discon-
tinued some years ago F.R.McK.:
Bulletin short-story writer A. C.
Headley has had two books of short
stories published, Alias the Bearded
Lady and So Many Fights, both by
Frank Johnson, Sydney J.M.: Sir
Edward Marshall Hall was born in
1858 and died in 1927. As a criminal
advocate, especially for the defence
in murder trials, he was without a
rival during his time. Among the
more notable of his forensic triumphs
were the Wood, the Peasenhale, the
Greenwood, the Seddon and the
Thompson-Bywater cases, all murder
trials. E. Majoribanks wrote his life.
N.N.; Azotised bodies are sub-
stances which contain nitrogen and
form part of the structure of plants
and animals; such are albumen,
casein, gelatine, etc N.J.: Charles
Grant Allen (1848-99) was an English
author, who was born at Kingston,
Canada. He studied at Oxford and
graduated in 1870. He became a
schoolmaster in Jamaica, but made
a permanent home later in England.
Charles Allen possessed a good scien-
tific knowledge and gift of expression.
He wrote many works of science, and
among his best novels are The Devil’s
Die (1888), The Great Taboo (1890)
and The Woman Who Did (1895).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
L.G.: A misfit if ever there was....
G. : Glad to note that you will
“go no more a roaming with a bottle
of Queensland rum” S.M.L.: It is
now quite comfortable in the basket.
C.B.: It reads more like a
weather report than a poem
M.G.: For a start you might buy a
new typewriter ribbon S.P.: You
are this week’s gloomiest rhymester.
C.K.T.: As interesting as a rail-
way time-table.,. .R.P.: No place in
our pages for that sorry witch
H. Aren’t you a bit late with
that spring poem? C.A.S.; Adam
Lindsay Gordon did it milch better.
B.W.: There can only be one
“Bellerive” H. 5.8.: Too juvenile
for our adult pages N.K.W.: The
only impression we gained was that
the writer was fond .of cats
J.M.: That old-timer is a dreary
story-teller H.S.: You are a better
grumbler than a writer E.R.: We
didn’t like the manner of telling....
W.A.: Last-man-in makes 200 runs
to save his side from defeat, mostly in
sixers. No! F.R.8.: We muzzled
the talking dog and imprisoned his
master in the w.p.b.... .S.M.: Ac-
count of visit to a waxworks makes
dull reading S.L.: The lady with
the electric-blue hair was shown to
the door M.T.F.: We don’t fancy
that kind of trick ending K.W.R.:
Just another bush-wedding story
T.W.A.: If you must burn the mid-
night oil devote your time to cross-
word or jig-saw puzzles, anything but
writing M.S.: The fact that bar-
maids are good mothers is no new
notion W.M.: A dud M.M.:
Sydney Harbor deserves something
better than that J.McP.: Poem of
hate against the thief who stole your
milk-money put the Religious Editor
on to the rum E.S.W.: Hold
hard, Ned. You can’t tell us that
that yarn is a literary cleanskin
L.F.D.: Try it on a women’s paper.
S.N.P.; You have a long, long
way to go D.W.: It tottered to
the basket and expired H.R.S.:
We would prefer that you send it to
Buckingham Palace G.8.C.: It
shows faint promise N.T.: Cheer-
less and commonplace A.M.:
Sorry, but we will not be sending
you a Bulletin cheque for framing.


TAKE A GOOD LOOK
at the popular Vauxhall family!
They’re the best-bred members yet of one of the greatest
car “families” in Australia. Wherever motoring at its
satisfying best is appreciated, “Vauxhall” is a name to
conjure with. These are the most beautiful, most powerful,
and relatively most economical Vauxhalls ever. Each
gives you the choice of two new SQUARE Vauxhall engines
the Wyvern 15.63 h.p. and the Velox 23.44 h.p.
m
m
Ask your Dealer about the G.M.A.C. Confi-
dential Hire Purchase Plan —and at the same time get him
to tell you about the Built-for-Vauxhall Airchief Car Radio.
15.63 h.p. O.H.V, 4-cyl. Wyvern . . . 23.44 h.p. O.H.V. 6-cyl. Velox
i
A General Motors Product
GENERAL M OTO RS -H O IDE N’S LTD.
BRISBANE . SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE . PERTH
Sold and serviced by Vauxhall dealers throughout Australia. VF7-30
agabond
“King of the Open
Road.” A generous 5-6
seater, easily convertible
to snug all-weather use,
very big luggage com-
partment.
IO cwt.
Coupe-Utility
Generous carrying
space, passenger luxury
for 3, graceful modern
styling, independent
front suspension.
Saloon
Spreading comfort for 5 or 6,
luxurious interiors, the most
distinguished-looking English-
Australian car on the roads to-
day. ' ■ ‘
Chemistry Serving Primary Industry
tS
V
NO KED
MtllUllllffffi
I RUDIP |
& DDT DIP
SPKAYIHG COMPOUKD^Sj
B nowriT MMiwi m
■ taumwis uKn®-“~* ffl m
Mixls wrter
jm
NO LICE
THE PERFECT, MODERN, DUAL-PURPOSE DDT
SHEEP DIP AND JETTING COMPOUND
(Kills ked and lice prevents blowfly strike)
Manufactured by Australia’s largest ■producers of £> DT -
TAUBMANS CHEMICALS PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE. MELBOURNE, BRISBANE. ADELAIDE, PERTH
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Mechanised Stockmen
“NX Mick”: Lightweight
motor-cycles are taking on out-
back. At Pooncarie (N.S.W.)
one station-owner uses eight
machines, which have almost
completely replaced horses on
his property.
Others find that a motor-
cycle, particularly a spring-frame
model, will go anywhere, and
more quickly and cheaply do
the work once done by a horse.
For rounding-up stock a box
is generally fitted to the carrier,
and a dog rides in it, so arriv-
ing fresh at the start of his job.
Impressed by the cross-coun-
try performances of stock-
machines, a Molong drover has
bought a two-stroke which he
claims embodies the best of
horse and utility-truck and yields
100 m.p.g. A welded-steel
framework on both sides and
over the rear wheel carries a
week’s supply of tucker, water,
petrol, camping gear and seat
for his dog. The machine is
geared to allow of a H-m.p.h.
pace on droving jobs, and a
small wheel on each side keeps
it upright at this speed. These
wheels are spring-loaded to
allow automatic retraction over
bumps, and can be fully re-
tracted for fast riding.
Its owner says it will pay for
itself in a year by saving fodder,
and doesn’t have to be caught
and saddled.
Jap Millet
“Hortus”; A demonstration
at Richmond (N.S.W.) showed
that Japanese millet is a first-
class quick-fodder proposition
for dairy-stock. Four acres were
grazed during December for
approximately three hours a
day. Resultant milk-production
increased by three gallons daily,
50 gallons being received from
the 20 milkers.
What’s more, supplementary
feeding costs were reduced.
Concentrates had to be fed only
once a day instead of twice,
while only two bales of lucerne-
hay were required instead of
the previous six bales.
Jap. millet is a very hardy
crop, will do well on almost any
soil, is the quickest growing of
all farm plants and is almost
drought-resistant. Hence the
common practice is to use this
millet as a catch-crop.
Six to ten pounds of seed an
acre if drilled in, more if broad-
cast. Super, or bone-dust, lewt.
to the acre, produces the best
results. Don’t feed off until the
crop is at least 6in. high. After
grazing, harrow the ground to
loosen the soil, so that there may
be a uniform moisture-conser-
vation, for Jap. millet depends
chiefly on surface nourishment.
It’s such- a sturdy crop that some
farmers use it as a weed-
eliminator in between two other
crops.
Ticks and D.D.T.
“Oxo”: Queensland Depart-
ment of Agriculture has in-
formed the United Graziers’
Association that no information
is available that D.D.T.-resist-
ant cattle-ticks have been de-
tected in Australia or else-
where. The association had
carried a resolution “that, as
D.D.T. and B.H.C. are incapable
of controlling the tick in North
Queensland.... .the possibility of
controlling the tick by injection
into the bloodstream of some-
thing adverse to the tick be
“Stop turning it around , then We might know
where We are."
investigated by C.S.LR.O. and
the department.”
The department said that
although there was evidence to
suggest that 8.H.C.-resistant
ticks were developing in over-
seas countries, and there was
some indication that B.H.C. had
failed to control ticks in iso-
lated instances in Queensland,
the general statement that
D.D.T. and B.H.C. were incap-
able of controlling ticks in
North Queensland could not be
accepted. Its own officers had
had extensive experience with
D.D.T. (Rucide) in northern as
well as other parts of Queens-
land, and very satisfactory
results had been obtained.
Honey Sources
“Farmer Bill”: S. A. Dowton,
a Dubbo (N.S.W.) beekeeper of
30 years’ standing, declares the
present erratic flowering of the
eucalypts is a sure indication
that a prolonged dry period is in
the offing. This year in the west
the gums bloomed profusely in
most districts. But the honey-
flows, short, swift and light,
kept the apiarists on the move.
Many trees suffered the worst
infestation yet of bud-weevil,
which caused falling-off of bud
and blossom.
Beekeepers now working the
Dubbo district are hoping that,
given a cooler change, the trees
not affected will give a moderate
return.
While the mugga ( E . sider-
oxylon) is a good honey-tree, it’s
a non-yielder of pollen. This,
plus unsettled weather condi-
tions, is likely to cause heavy
losses among the bees unless the
colonies brought on to it are in
top form.
This year Paterson’s Curse
proved the salvation of many
Dubbo beekeepers, since it
bloomed well in most areas.
“It’s a wonder-plant for the
bees,” says Dowton. On one
property over 2000 acres of
grassland was ploughed-up and
sown with it; sheep, cattle and
bees did well on it.
The Curse is now regarded as
a splendid spring stimulant for
brood-rearing. When rain forces
growth a surplus of good-
quality light honey is pro-
duced.
In South Australia, where it is
not a weed, mountain-
sides, "colored purple with the
plant’s flower, hum in early
summer with clouds of bees, and
cattle mooch contentedly among
it-
Dehorning
“C.A.A.”: There is little risk
in dehorning adult dairy cattle
provided the approved instru-
ment is used. The operation is
done between May and Sep-
tember, and with the precaution
of placing the dehorner in disin-
fectant solution after using it
will usually be found that
animals will return to produc-
tion in from 12 to 24 hours.
Heifers not treated as calves
are best left until 15 to 18
months old. To prevent re-
growth, remove the layer of
fleshy tissue at the base of the
horn. Hold the animals in a
strong bail or crush with
adequate working space behind
the bail.
Disease-spreaders
“Springvale”: Lice, footrot
and other sheep ailments are
most likely being carried over
widespread areas by way of dirty
transports and salesyards. The
unbelievably filthy condition of
some yards and trucks makes
one wonder what officialdom is
doing about it. At least some
control measures should be intro-
duced, if only to protect buyers
from introducing diseases into
their healthy flocks.
Conserving Bush Hay
“Outback”: D. M. Collings,
Colwell station, McKinlay
(N.Q.), appears to be making a
success of fodder conservation.
Bush-hay he baled and stacked
nearly three years ago is still in
good condition, and when
opened from the outside of the
stacks shows good green color
in the leaf.
Collings has 13,000 bales of
hay stored on his property, and
analysis has shown that after 18


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
n
s •
HYCEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
DISTRIBUTORS: .
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Diet. 00.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St.. Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land). 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St..
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvedator 00. (S.A.), 229 a Rundle
St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator 00. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank
Chambers, Raffles Place.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly, covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Gene
S
PRIC
Weight
TOlbs.
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers’
Quarters.
£75
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
sd
. .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BABBEBE
No Pads —
hbe NEO-BARKERH
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
In all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. Sq), 258 Elizabeth St., Sydney
%
A SPECIAL
OVEN FOR EVERY
COOKING PURPOSE
?me
SS:—-
r*
THI4 OVEN
AGA
COOKER
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N. 2. in 1841)
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOR THE AGA COOKER
AND BENDIX HOME WASHER
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES _ _ 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA ______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _ _ _ _ A. fi. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS _ _ _ MALLOCH BROS. Ltd., Pert#
SB
It’s sheer heaven to cook with a
four-oven Aga! In addition to three
hotplates, you have a Roasting oven
big enough to take your Christmas
turkey; a Baking oven to bake cakes
and bread; a Simmering oven for
slow, economical, flavoursome cook-
ing such as soups and casseroles;
and a Warming oven where food
waits unspoilt, hour after hour.
Each Aga oven automatically main-
tains correct temperature , and since
the Aga never goes out it’s always
"just right” for cooking.
P.S. Thermostatic control
guarantees fuel economy!
10 YEARS’ GUARANTEE
The British-built Aga Is
guaranteed for 10 years
against faulty materials
or workmanship.
drives giant Mill that ended
SHEET STEEL problem
This is the motor that drives
the largest Cold Reduction
Sheet Steel Mill south of the
Equator.
It is part of the new plant
which enables C.R.M. to meet
all the requirements of Aus-
tralian industry for sheet steel
of the highest grade. It is
part of a plant which has
vital significance in connec-
tion with Australian industrial
development and which, in
the event of national emer-
gency, would play a highly
important part in national
defence.
Delays in delivery of products
in which sheet steel is a
component need no longer
arise because of any shortage
of fine sheet steel. Lysaght’s
C.R.M. Division can now fully
meet Australian demand.
17
w STEEL sheet
C.R.M. DIVISION OF LYSAGHT'S
WORKS PTY. LIMITED
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY.
LIMITED GENERAL SALES
AGENTS. SYDNEY: 33 Macquarie
Place. MELBOURNE: 70-84 Claren-
don Street, South Melbourne.
ADELAIDE: 13 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE: 307-311 Queen Street.
FREMANTLE: Corner of Short and
Pakenhatn Streets. WELLINGTON,
N.Z.: John Lysaght’s Bristol Works
Limited.
CRIA-53
if any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
months’ storage under hard con-
ditions deterioration in the food
value of the hay was negligible,
He is now experimenting in an
effort to conserve fodder in a
succulent condition: 200 tons of
Mitchell-, Flinders- and button-
grass is being baled green and
pered in trench silos.
_ . , ~ ,
Previous harvesting of the
grass does not appear to have
affected the composition of the
rains '
fh r S eason S flowerine
this season is again flowering.
Colhngs intends to put down as
grts s?o n r d edT trenches' soTb"
MMffc ?ayt
proposition
Queensland Department of
Agriculture has purchased hay-
making and -baling equipment
for experimental purposes on
various properties, and the de-
partment will doubtless later go
fully into the economics of the
business and also conduct experi-
ments in an effort to preserve
the protein content of bush-hay.
Only the publication of actual
protein content and production
costs will convince many who
think bush-hay is not worth
conserving. In a season like the
present many thousands of tons
of bush-hay could be conserved,
but when this was suggested
most graziers said “It does not
pay.”
Field Peas
“Palm”: February to May
are the best months to sow
field-peas. It’s common now on
the N.S.W. North Coast to sow
peas between rows of late maize
just prior to last cultivation. As
leaves of maize start to wither,
more light and air are received
by the young peas and a quick
growth follows.
After the maize is pulled,
dairy-cows can be turned in.
Soil-fertility is helped tremend-
ously by ploughing-under maize
refuse, liquid and solid animal
manure and pea-roots (not to
mention the nitrogen-enriching
properties of the latter).
Peas may be sown also in
combination with any of the
winter cereals, especially wheat
and oats. Where soil is rather
poor for a good wheat crop, it
pays to grow a mixture of rye
and field-peas. This is one of
the best green-manuring mix-
tures to grow, and does parti- ,
cularly well as an orchard-soil
renovator. Quantity of seed
varies from lj bushels of a
cereal and \ bushel to a bushel
of peas per acre with up to lewt.
of super.
Autumn Roses
“Gully”: Now is the time to
obtain rose-cuttings. They can
be rooted quite easily, and very
good strikes will be got by grow-
ing cuttings directly in sand to
which nothing but water has
been added. When the cuttings
are well-grown they may be
placed in their position in the
garden.
Although it is better to pre-
pare the ground early by trench-
ing to at least 2ft. and adding
rotted manure, the bed can be
jeft for a while where more
pressing work must be done.
A liberal dressing of lime,
where it is not present in the
soil, should be given. Use cow-
manure for sandy soil and horse-
manure for heavy loams. Roses
will grow in. a great variety of
soils, from sand to clay, but will
respond best when manure is
supplied.
7 . n £ .
.
, Myrrhee In Victoria zinc-
deficiency in fruit-trees is com-
”on on ,^, alme ™ the
Murray Valley, the Goulburn
Vall » and a y r ’ ound Harcourt;
Quan ( ong Horsham and Paken .
am
In' deciduous trees the trouble
may be remedied by spraymg
with zinc . su i phate 2 lb. to 4gal.
o£ ( d hj , es
r. within a
For citrus ’ V “
before spring growth begins,
us j ng Hb. G f zinc-sulphate and
i ]b . slaked lime in 10ga l. 0 f
water
'
Wilga
Apart from its fodder
value (B. 22/4/’53), the wilga is
a lovely ornamental tree. Dubbo
was one of the first N.S.W.
towns to use it for an avenue,
There, in Victory Park, a short
avenue provides an arresting
picture—the wilgas, some 15
years old, rise to 20ft. in height.
meeting in an archway over-
head. The foliage is compact
and as verdant as willow. Why
western towns don’t use it for
street planting is a puzzle.
Beautiful wilga-trees along
the Corinda-Coonamble road
transform the wayside into a
veritable parkland. This, in the
main, is not Crown land. The
owners of the properties would
be acting like true patriots if
they were to offer 'a deep road-
way-frontage to the Government
to reserve the trees for posterity,
at the same time retaining the
right to lop judiciously over
drought.
Hints for the Farm
“Sundowner”: Best way to
plant cuttings of most trees and
shrubs is in a mixture of equal
parts of sand, loam and leaf-
mould. Don’t plant deeply.
Cuttings need to be deep enough
only to allow the compost to
support them in an upright posi-
tion, and keep them adequately
supplied with moisture.
“My”: The Victorian Wheat
Advisory Committee recom-
mends sowing the following
varieties this year: In the
Mallee: Insignia, Bencubbin,
Quadrat and Diadem. In
Northern and Southern
Wimmera: red and fringe soils.
Pinnacle, Quadrat, Diadem,
Insignia; black soils. Pinnacle,
Quadrat and Magnet.
“Silen”: Autumn - reared
calves are very prone to scours.
At the first sign drench with
phe'nothiazine.
“Old Nick”: First-aid for a
dog bitten by a snake is an anti-
serum injection. If that’s not
possible make a deep incision
over the seat of the bite and tie
a ligature tightly above it to pre-
vent the venom circulating
through the system. Then open
the wound deeply enough to plug
Condy’s crystals right into it.
The drug must come into contact
with the poison to destroy it. A
little later an injection of 2 per
cent. Condy’s crystals in water
should be made into and round
the wound with a hypodermic
syringe.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
There have been distortions of the normal cyclical
sequence during the present season, the latest of them in
the coastal areas of N. S. Wales, where rains due about the
middle of April on the shorter Crohamhurst cycle came with
the late-April-early-May group.
This and the longer cycle now indicate fine weather, with
a drop in temperature; the next rains are due about May 17
on one cycle and about ten days later on the other—
assuming, of course, that the normal sequence has now been
resumed.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Potatoes and Controls
Every time we turned on the radio
the main news of the day seemed to be
about Melbourne’s spud shortage. It
didn’t worry me, for we grow most of
our food on the farm, but the plight of
a friend —a housewife with a sick hus-
band and several children —rather spoilt
my appetite for the murphies.
I packed about 70 pounds of the things
into a banana-case and carted it to the
mailman to rail from our terminal station,
60 miles away. That night he brought
the consignment back. The railways
were forbidden, under regulation XYZ,
to carry potatoes except those consigned,
to the board from registered growers.
He has tried to dispatch them by road,
but the roal-hauliers come under a similar
ban,
I gave the spuds to the mailman for
his own use and, probably, if the Potato
Board had known that, both mailman and
I would have been charged with breaking
some other wretched regulation.
“Control” is going a bit too far when
a friend can’t send a gift of a few pounds
of garden produce to another friend be-
cause of board control —The Missus
(Vic.).
Polynesian Voyagers
I’d like to elaborate one or two points
mentioned by H. A. Lindsay (B.
15/4/’53). “The famous fleet which left
the Society Islands about a.d. 1350 con-
sisted of only six canoes, carrying no
more than 300 men and women” —that
conveys the idea of a bunch of canoes
pushing off on* a nice afternoon after
speeches of farewell and the emptying of
whatever held the liquor.
There was no fleet in that sense ; about
three generations separated the departure
of the first of that group of migrations
(there were seven .according to the
Maori) from the last, though two of the
remembered canoes sailed in company.
So far as Maori tradition goes, 35 canoe-
parties managed to make the shores of
N.Z,, and of those that left the eastern
Polynesian area traditions of their leav-
ing have survived in the islands of de-
parture. Just how many people were
in the seven canoes can only be sur-
mised ; one, the Arawa, was a three-
masted double-sailing canoe; one other
seems to have been a single-hulled out-
rigger-balanced sailing job.
When old Manaia, in the Society
group, was thirsting for the blood of a
smart-Alec enemy who had evaded cap-
ture by taking to the sea he followed
the fugitive party to Rarotonga and on
to N.Z.; his pursuing force being com-
posed of a double-sailing heavy canoe
and an outrigger-balanced fast-sailing
scouting canoe. Manaia eventually
located his quarry off the coast of
Taranaki and handed out the stoush
without further ado.
Cook’s draughtsmen (or Banks’s) left
very fine pictures of canoes they saw
about the Pacific. A description, pub-
lished in London in 1851, of a big sea-
going canoe, a double-hull job, seen in
Rotuma, gives its measurements: the
larger hull was 80ft. to 90ft. long, the
smaller 50ft. to 60ft.; the hulls were
about 6ft. apart, connected by cross-
beams on which was a decking of planks
14ft. or 16ft. wide; the canoes were
covered with matting with sliding hatch-
ways.
As most of the coral islands did not
provide timber of any size, considerable
ingenuity was shown by the canoe-
builders. In a paper on Maori migra-
tions, a Mr. Barstow tells of seeing a
Paumotu party returning from a fruitless
quest of several hundred miles in search
°f a party blown away; their double
canoe was built of small planks, the
largest not more than 4ft. by Ift., sewn
with sennit; the pair of hulls were 35ft.
long, sft. deep and 7ft. or Bft. in beam ;
they were braced about 9ft. apart with
the usual deckhouse. A Captain Berry
records that big canoes off Fiji were able
to lay within three points of the wind
a nd, under favorable conditions, to
plough along at 15 knots for a burst.
Cook noted that the Tahitians could
outsail his ship. Old Karika, of Raro-
tonga, made eight voyages of exploration
to Samoa and other places, and his
double-masted sailer could accommodate
170 men.
The reasons for colonising further-out
islands, whose existence could only be
surmised, would largely be based on
the need for more food (the same reasons
that sent Europeans to the Pacific), but
there were other impelling motives—the
refugee and pursuer, like Manaia men-
tioned above, or expulsion as a punish-
ment for crimes (Tametekapua of the
Arawa canoe-migration to N.Z. comes
into this category ; he stole his uncle’s
breadfruit and made himself otherwise
objectionable). One other canoe-load
came to N.Z. hoping to secure a posi-
tion of eminence denied it at home ; on
the other hand the Takitumu bunch set
out for N.Z. because of favorable re-
ports of it as a place of residence. In
many cases sheer love of adventure was
the motive. Kupe (dated about the
middle, of the 7th century) made a round
trip from eastern Polynesia to Te Rapa,
down to the Antarctic looking for a
“ Dad's savin' them up for home-brew .”
supposed southern land (thus predating
Cook and other Europeans by 1000
years), hit on N.Z. on his way home, and
so back to Tahiti to compose a narrative
of his voyaging, some of which is still
extant.
Drift-voyages possibly have settled
more islands than any other method.
The New Zealand Maori claim is that
the first people to reach those lands
were castaways; during Maori occupa-
tion several drift-parties turned up and
fishing-parties from N.Z. blown away,
reached northern islands and in two cases
at least returned home. Almost every
island has similar stories. Incidentally,
one migrating-party that reached N.Z.
blamed volcanic activity in their home-
land for moving away.
All the traditional movements were
from west to "east, with ample evidence
of a secondary wave of migration thread-
ing through the earlier one—*even as
English migration pushed into the
Pacific through the earlier Spanish,
Dutch and Portuguese settlements and
over the Polynesian.
Besides the books mentioned by H. A.
Lindsay, there is a whole library of
books, etc., issued by the Bishop Museum
in Hawaii and an immense pile of printed
matter in New Zealand in the records
of the Polynesian Society and the later
Dominion Museum publications, all of
them superimposed on or elaborating
the work of Percy Smith, Fornander, the
missionaries like Ellis of Samoa, Gill of
the Cook group, and ex-Naval Williams
of the Bay of Islands, who built and
sailed his own ship about the islands.
Scores of European sailors have added
their quota of observations, and Poly-
nesians like Peter Buck have been com-
petent to give their racial story. —T. W.
(N.Z.).
A Coconut Civilisation
In the past few weeks I have been
living in a small world of fretted human
activity; an activity which could yield
profitable returns for the good of a large,
internationally-administered region, or
which could only give off the lingering
effervescence of another semi-idealistic
vision. I refer to the headquarters at
Noumea of the South Pacific Commis-
sion, where 70 or so men and women
from the islands territories of the South
Pacific have been meeting in conference.
They have been talking about economic
and social welfare, practical problems
common to them all, to a body which is
only advisory and which cannot move
without its member-Governments approv-
ing, any more than the delegates to the
conference can achieve their stated
aspirations without that approval.
This is the second time the
islanders have met in conference since
the commission was established in 1948,
with the blessing of Australia, France,
the Netherlands, New Zealand, the
United Kingdom and the United States.
It has been an interesting study of the
way a white-man’s thinking has been
grafted on a people not long emerged
from the Stone Age. Out of sight of
them, but within the hearing of loud-
speakers, one could imagine a gathering
of French, English, American and Aus-
tralasian plenipotentiaries wiping clean
the slate of international complexity.
The only intrusion on this cultured
atmosphere was an old paramount chief
from New Britain who blasted the
earnestness of their debate, and damp-
ened their forensic skill, with a bit of
“So I said to this hulking big wedgetail-eagle ‘Out of my Way , mug!' ”
talk-talk belonga pidgin*, an almost
larrikin intrusion. The old pifella might
have done it deliberately just to show
’em that a stage in the history of the
Pacific that he was reared through hasn’t
altogether passed yet.
Maybe, but the general impression is
of a gathering of Polynesians, Melan-
esians, Micronesians and their European
advisers returning to their islands rather
pleased with themselves that they have
got a lot of things off their chests, and
that they have given the European
Administrations which govern them a
few matters to chew upon.
Another impression that lingers is that
the South Pacific Commission could be
a positive instrument in the life of the
islands, and a unifying organisation to
deal with many of the problems common
to the region.
How much real use can be made of
the commission, and of the earnest ex-
ploratory work being done by its execu-
tives and experts in various fields, de-
pends, of course, on the Governments
which administer the Pacific territories.
The pattern of Pacific colonisation does
not vary much in any part of it, but
when it comes to any of the Administra-
tions yielding authority for the sake of
common action (no matter how common-
sense that action might be demonstrated)
it is another matter.
Economic pressure is the great prob-
lem all of them face, and must face up
to. Social change and political think-
ing are perhaps other questions only a
little less urgent, although the emphasis
on urgency' is greater in some than
others.
One fact is apparent from the con-
ference talks: reliance on a single export-
crop is stifling the region’s progress.
Unless something is done to arrest de-
cline of the coconut, the copra indus-
try faces breakdown. Lavish toll has
been taken of natural growth for close
on a century ; little attention has been
paid to replanting, to new varieties, im-
proved cultivation methods, processing,
speeding-up of marketing and merchan-
dising the product.
The post-war copra boom has passed ;
some balance is maintained largely be-
cause of British Ministry of Food con-
tracts, Can it last without attention
being paid to, improving the industry,
cultivating the’ raw material to greater
extent, giving the islanders a greater say
in the production and marketing of the
crop, tackling disease regionally instead
of only territorially?
The commission is a body that could
take hold of the whole problem, given
the funds and the authority from the
controlling Governments. Its existing
shortcoming is its executive level, plus
the restrictive bailiwick of an inter-
national body owned by national Admini-
strations. Its Budget illustrates this
limitation —about £2,000,000 spread over
six Administrations. Even within the
limits of its charter, this Budget can be
described as contemptuous, when the
magnitude of the problems and the acute
need for the solving of them are realised.
A supra-national body in an area such
as the South Pacific is impracticable, but
a much greater effort, to solve problems
through the agency of an international
organisation is called for, and surely not
impracticable. The nucleus of such an
organisation appears to exist in the
South Pacific Commission.
Economic development is the out-
standing practical problem of the South
Pacific. A solution is to be found in
removing the region from the stultifying
grip and the risks of reliance on a single
crop—the coconut. — C. E. Sayers (Vic.).
Adelaide Uni.
I was dismayed to see “Ex-
R.S.M.’s” attack on “some students at
the University of Adelaide” who “in-
dulged in senseless pranks which cost the
institution £5O” (B, 7/1/’53). The cost
of the necessary repairs was met in toto
by the Adelaide University Students’
Representative Council and the Union
Council, not by the University Council.
Perhaps we don’t “turn our brilliant
[?] young minds towards raising money
for the seats of learning*’ to which we
belong, primarily to get a broad educa-
tion, and secondly to “train us for
careers.” But in our procession last year
we raised over £lOO for the S.A. Crippled
Children’s Association. And the Adelaide
University collections for World Student
Relief (of which “Ex-R.S.M.” has prob-
ably never heard) were the highest in
Australia.
Indeed W.S.R. does not finance our
own universities, as “Ex-R.S.M.” would
have it do. But it does .make some small
contribution towards friendship with
fellow-students, less fortunate than our-
selves, all over the world. —C. H. S. (S.A.).


Parking-meters
About those parking-meters (B.
6/5/’53). They are now an institution
in the U.S., and 90 per cent, of American
cities have them. The idea, of course,
is a timing-device to show how long a
car has been parked.
But at first the meters were not very
popular—in some cities their reception
was decidedly hostile. ' In Mobile, for
instance, when they were introduced
there in 1935, a “vigilant” committee
arrived with axes to chop them down.
-In Carthage (Texas) the sheriff chased
away the first installers with a shotgun.
In Oklahoma City, the first city where
the meters were successfully operated,
they were installed on one side only of
a series of streets. On the first morning
the free side of each block was at first
filled with cars and the metered side
was left empty. But by 11 o’clock the
metered sections also began to fill, with
a steady cotning-and-going of cars. The
non-metered side had a slow “turnover,”
By the end of three days merchants
on the free side had petitioned for meters
on their side, too.
Parking-meters have been a definite
success in U.S.A. They would be well
worth a trial in all Australian capital
cities. —Maros (W.A.).
Red Cedar
I have here in Montville (Q.), only
five miles from a sawmill, nine red-
cedar-trees not less than 100 years old,
in a small pocket of five acres.
I’ve advertised them for sale in our
Queensland paper and had no reply. I
need the land for other crop and it will
mean falling the trees and burning them,
as has been done- here for years.
There seems to be something wrong.
This timber is worth £7 per 100 ft. on
the Atherton Tableland, and 1 can’t get
an offer only 66 miles from Brisbane. —
E.D. (Q.). ___
Browning
As a reader of Browning for the last
40 years I found Norman Lindsay’s
defence akin to faint praise. Browning
may not always have lived up to his own
ideals (who does!), but it is surely pos-
sible that his ideal of physical love is
expressed by Pompilia in The Ring and
the Book, lines 772-987.
As for Browning not believing in
Christianity, it is possible that he did
not believe in certain brands of it, but
it is impossible that a non-Christian could
have written “Saul,” the last section of
“Paracelsus, “The Epistle of Karshish,”
“Abt Vogler,” “Christmas Eve,” “A
Death in the Desert,” “Ned Bratts” and
others.
In “Fifine,” Browning, without denying
the strain between a stable life and the
pull of sexual adventure, actually con-
demns slackness and “Don Juanism.”—-•
K. A. S. (Vic.).
Norman Lindsay's defence of Brown-
ing was a timely debunking of the
Freudian humbug in literature. Not only
did Browning, as NX. says, write the
greatest poetry since Shakspeare; he was
not far below the great Elizabethan in
his gift ot imaginative insight. His
humanism was free of the sentimentality
of Dickens, and no modem poet has
excelled him in the art of making the
metre fit the subject.
Where, in modem poetry, can be
found a more inspired, sympathetic de-
lineation of character as appears in his
dramatic romance of the career of a
pedant of the Renaissance? None but
a poet of the universality of Browning
would have found in a pedant a fit subject
for an apologia and made of him a tragic
and heroic figure.
The time of “A Grammarian’s Funeral”
is shortly after the Revival of Learning
in Europe. Browning shows us a scholar,
comely as lyric Apollo, content in his
painful zeal for systematising Greek
syntax to become shrunken, prematurely
old and wracked by sedentary toil:*—•
Long he lived nameless: How should spring
take note,
Winter would follow?
Till, 10, the little touch and youth was
gone!
He shows us the soul of this pedant,
who, in spite of the parchment face, had
a soul “hydroptic with a sacred thirst
for knowledge.”
So, with the throttling hands of death at
strife,
Ground he at grammar.
Browning finds in such heroic pedantry
a proof of his doctrine of immortality.
Someone had to make the key before that
treasure-chest of classic lore could be
“Blast it, man, there's no need to salute with such vigor.”
opened. Browning’s pedant was at least
a pioneer; his only vanity that others
would have to tread in his footsteps. —
Clem Lack (Q.).
Education
What do people like “Millicent” (B.
22/4/’53) expect of education? Do they
think that the system of 50 or even 20
years ago was so perfect that no change
should be made? Education approached
from a scientific point of view is com-
paratively modern. For many years the
Wackford Squeers or the Grammar
School or the Church Schools were the
•only types available and, strangely
enough, turned out a number of scholars
in spite of themselves.
The “learn-by-looking-” method is not
new. Any teacher knows that for a
child to form a conception of a new
experience he has to perceive it from
every way. Pictures have always played
their part but should be confined to
new experiences. I had great difficulty
in a small bush-school in the Northern
Tablelands trying to give the kids an
idea of the western plains without the
aid of any pictures. The task was almost
impossible.
The “play way” also has its place and,
like the picture method, should be kept
in its place. It mightn’t teach the child
the 12-times tables, but it will help to
give him a number-concept that is to be
so important in his later education.
No method, old or new, is meant to
be used all the time. Obviously every
geography lesson is not taught by the
means of a film-strip-projector, nor does
every arithmetic lesson consist of play-
ing darts. Yet the projector and the dart-
game can help tremendously when used
reasonably.
Unfortunately, most things are worked
to death before we realise how to
handle them. Just as a new drug is pre-
scribed on every pretext until the doctors
discover that it needs more judicious
handling, so it is with educational
changes. A few years ago, when intelli-
gence-tests were first introduced, teachers
began a period of 1.Q.-worship. It
wasn’t long, though, before they recog-
nised I.Q.’s for what they were. Today
the child’s I.Q. is a very useful guide,
and that is all. It is the same with
vocational-guidance tests.
I’ll take a lot of convincing that educa-
tion is slipping. I’ve handled too many
leave-applications from the fathers of
today’s school pupils not to realise that
the educational system of 30 or 40 years
ago had its shortcomings. Office boys
have always been inky and illiterate and
shop assistants never could add columns
of figures. Bank accountants are still
deploring the educational standards of
their new clerks as they were 40 years
ago.
I don’t know if the boys today know
more about their tables than their
fathers do, but I’ll bet the price of my
last cane that they know more about the
world they live in than their old man
did at their age. I’ll bet, too, that they’ll
have a better chance than their father
of filling-in a Senate ballot-paper cor-
rectly.—Wackford (N.S.W.).
To the average person, reading as a
means of learning is not to be compared
with seeing, particularly when the seeing
is accompanied by hearing. A film of the
educational type will impose its subject
more firmly on the mind of the pupil
than will a dozen lectures, books or
pamphlets—obviously the concentration
of two senses on one subject must pro-
duce a deeper impression than the use of
one sense only.
When reading the pupil has to use his
eyes and imagination, but when seeing
the same subject animated on the screen
and accompanied by the appropriate
sound-effects, he sees, hears and imagines
a much more comprehensive picture. At
the same time, the picture depicted on the
screen is the one which the instructor
wants the pupil to see, whereas when
reading the pupil sees any number of
mind-pictures, depending on his frame of
mind, knowledge of the subject and many
other factors.
The training film is now standard equip-
ment in almost every army because of
its value for instructing large groups of
students. Films not only give a better
picture, but they do it much quicker than
any other method. And if anyone can
tell me how to incorporate into a lecture
the sound of a gun firing and convince
the class I’ll sky the towel. — Lofty
(N.S.W.).
The Bow
The replacement of the longbow by
the hand-gun was not due to the gun
being the more potent weapon (B.
4/3/’53). The effective range of the
longbow was better than that of the
standard musket of the British soldier of
the Napoleonic period, and its rate of
fire was faster than that of any firearm
before the invention of the breech-load-
ing rifle.
In Elizabeth’s reign the bow had
superiority over the gun in several direc-
tions, and psychologically it had a big
advantage —the arrow-storm had an un-
nerving effect on the enemy. Yet by the
beginning of the 17th century the long-
bow was no longer of consequence as a
weapon for English soldiers.
A modern authority on archery, A. E.
Hodgkin, in The Archer’s Craft, suggests
some of the reasons for the bow’s decline
in the 16th century: The longbow was
never a popular weapon among English-
men. They only attained proficiency'
through compulsory training in archery
enforced by the Plantagenet kings. When
the Crown relaxed its vigilance archery
declined.
Suppression by the Tudors of the pro-
fessional retainers of the nobility, many
• of whom were skilled archers, also con-
tributed. In Tudor times, too, after the
reign of Henry VIII the English Crown
did not intervene on a large scale in
Continental warfare. There was, indeed,
neglect of military preparedness, except
when a particular foreign crisis, like the
threatened invasion by the Spanish
Armada, stirred the Crown into activity.
The longbow was a weapon that could
only be wielded efficiently by one who
kept in constant practice. James I
ordered the butts in London, which had
fallen into neglect, to be restored and
archery practice enforced, but his order
had no appreciable result. Archers did
not take part in the Civil War.
The longbow died officially as a weapon
in 1662, when Charles 11, in his “Act for
Ordering the Forces in the Several
Counties of This Kingdom,” made no
mention of any kind of bow when listing
the small-arms to be used.
The English and Welsh were the only
peoples in Western Europe, apart from
the early Vikings, who were proficient
with the longbow. Even in the Pyrenean
country, from which yew bowstaves came,
the people were not archers, and James I
of Scotland tried unsuccessfully to make
the longbow popular in that country by
enforcing archery practice.— Dentonio
(N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 225
Across
I—Terrible fellow with the ego
waggon introduces four to one.
(4)
3—The box office comes between
the parent and the elephant as
an object of foolish awe. (5-5)
B—Garment like matches. (6)
10—Musical instruments have nothing
but keels. (9)
12— Tram plethora untrampled by this
girl- (5) ,
13— Tasty author of “George and
Margaret” who toured Australia
in 1933-34. (6)
14— A god backing an early
Napoleonic victory. (4)
18— Cloth ascent in musical repeti-
tion. (7) , . ,
19 — Quadruped sends back every-
thing to mother. (5)
20— Nathaniel the Spruce. (5)
21 — Otherwise mother is surrounded
by little Dorothy for cleaning
dirty shoes on the way in. (4-^)
22 Dane conceals Ferber. (4)
24—Knaves grouse badly. (6)
26—Precipitous dip. (5)
28 — Noblewoman offers short stories
and essay study to a girl. (8)
29 — Ox-like box-office creeper. (6)
30— Violates the plate on yours and
mine. (10)
31— Immediately produces a nega-
tive. (4)
Down.
1 — They are supposed to give us
some interest like a prelate on
Sundays. (11)
2 Swear the quadruped never
stopped feeding. (10)
3 Mother and Aunt Sally m the
club. (5) r ,
4 The room is overturned by lago s
dupe. (4)
5 Affirmative German communist
pitcher and the editor name
Methuselah's grandfather. (?)
6 Money may be made by this
aromatic plant. (4)
7 Rhea is often identified with her
punishment reserved for music-
hall singers by the “Mikado.” (3)
9—A souvenir of victory is to waste
away. (7)
11 —Century tree on a Spanish play-
wright. (8)
15 — Pippin with the carved mug. (11)
16— Blow the girl, it is needed for
operating well. (8)
17 — Monk takes a vehicle in this
manner to a Scottish johnny. (10)
19—Flaccid duck river in Europe is
a river much further to the south.
(7)
23 — The individuality of Diana James
of Spain. (5)
24 Picture-puzzle about a convey-
ance. (5) . .
25 ■—Nose broken in the singles. (4)
27 Prohibition label on you. (4)
28 — How the mistrustful vendors
deliver fish. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 224


■mf
smmm
m
mm®.
Wmtm
m
m
sK
' •* :•: -k
mx
&iisiss
o
mm
v .
‘At many points along my 15,000 miles journey
’round Australia Fm often well away from the beaten
track,’ writes popular author Frank Clune, ‘and
that’s just another reason why I’m glad Fm using
C.O.R exclusively in ray Holden. Too right—C.O.R’s
the right spirit whether you’re on a bush track or
highway yes, tell all our motoring friends Fm as
pleased as Punch with C.O.R’.
Frank Clime’s choice of C.O.R is significant ... a
man of the people, he chose C.O.R, the choice of
the people.
FRANK CLUNE says;-
TM AS PLEASED AS PUNCH WITH
Fill from the Red, White & Blue Pump at
INDEPENDENT
SERVICE STATION
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
(Marketers in Australia for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
C139/6101
,v
•• ■■■'
I
S-?;'
■ '■
«
.
,
; ::
m
JCH 8 /T**:
.. ' IS
■"'■m a
m
.
S.'S;
m \
mmm
aAa-
gm: A
"'4,
*0
