

FOR PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION, BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
'•'■•v;-'
the Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74 —No. 3828
CONTRABAND CHINESE
Wednesday, June 24, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
THE ROYAL PROCESSION OF HER MAJESTY QUEEN ELIZABETH II
THE triumphal progress of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II and her Consort,
His Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh, through the gaily decorated
streets of London presented a spectacle long to be remembered by those who
lined the route on Coronation Day, June 2nd, 1953. Many of them, from all
parts of the world, had taken up their positions on the streets and waited
patiently throughout the two previous nights in order to be certain of a
good vantage point to cheer the Queen and to see the brilliant pageantry of
this historic occasion unnarallelcd in the modem world
mis histone occasion unparalleled in the modern world.
Centrepiece of the processional drive was the glittering gold State Coach,
drawn by eight Windsor Greys ridden by postillions in medieval livery. In
the gilded coach rode the newly crowned Queen, wearing the Imperial State
Crown, and arrayed in her robe of purple velvet. The Sceptre and the Orb
were held in either hand and beside her sat H.R.H. the Duke of Edinburgh
wearing the full dress uniform of an Admiral of the Fleet. Accompanying
the State Coach were the Footmen, clad in red and gold; and the Queen’s
Bodyguard of the Yeoman of the Guard in their picturesque Tudor uniforms,
the oldest permanent military corps in the world, dating from 1485. Preceding
the Queen were more than a thousand Guardsmen and the King’s Troop of
the Royal Horse Artillery—all in brilliant full dress. Adding to the colour
of this magnificent scene were two divisions of the Sovereign’s Escort of the
Household Cavalry in their gleaming silver helmets, waving plumes, shining
cuirasses and jack-boots.
In the Royal Procession were carriages carrying other members of the
Royal family, Royal guests, the Prime Ministers of Australia and New Zealand,
aU P a rts of the Commonwealth. Sixteen
thousand troops lined the five-mile route and the stirring music of 47 bands
mingled with the tumultuous cheers of the vast crowds lining the garlanded
streets. The great cavalcade, two miles in length, took forty-five minutes to
pass any given point. Marching soldiers, sailors, airmen and Servicewomen
—bands, crowds and gaiety—all contributed to a spectacle only London
could provide in Coronation Year, 1953.
After her return to the Palace, the Queen appeared on the balcony for
the Fly-past of the Royal Air Force and to acknowledge the joyful cheers
of her people who thronged the streets far into the night. As dusk fell the
most spectacular firework display ever seen in Britain burst over the central
parks and the River Thames, where the gleaming water reflected in sudden
splendour the medieval beauty of ancient buildings


LOOK DOWN THIS LIST
STOTT’S can train you—in the privacy o)
your own Home. STOTT'S has helped
tens of thousands to achieve SUCCESS.
STOTT’S can help YOU I
Shorthand/Typewrlting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith ./Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults
Radio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exam*.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russel] St., Melbourne; 149 Oastlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
jj CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON--""",
■ To STOTT'S: Please send me, free and without
j obligation, full particulars of your Course/s in: j
I I
| MY NAME . |
J ADDRESS |
! (S.B. 453) AGE. . I
L i
The Red Page
TASMANIAN PARAGON
Mr. M. C. I. Levy’s Governor George
Arthur—A Colonial Benevolent Despot
(Georgian House) is a copiously-docu-
mented work on one of the most dis-
cussed characters of early Tasmania;
but it is not likely to advance discussion
much farther than it has been taken by
previous historians, and perhaps not so
far. The great amount of material to
which Mr. Levy has had access seems
to have been masticated without being
digested, and is served to the reader in
a large series of numbered mouthfuls ;
some large, some small, but all leading
to the conclusion that Governor Arthur
was “benevolent” and that anybody who
might have happened to stand in his way,
or to be in a position to share some
credit with him, was not.
There is no doubt but that Arthur
was somewhat above the average of early
colonial Governors, that there is much
injustice in the popular opinion of him
as a tyrant, cruel and hard and largely to
be remembered for his atrocities; but
Mr. Levy goes to the other extreme. To
him all good that was achieved in early
Tasmania stemmed from Arthur—a
“philanthropist... .much gentler, and far
more humane, than most of the officials
and the great majority of military officers
of his time.”
He appeared always to have been mis-
understood. In Honduras, where he was
Lieutenant - Governor before coming
to Van Diemen’s Land in 1824, and
everywhere else during most of his career,
he “seemed fated to be a child of tem-
pestuous contention, but always success-
fully repulsed opposition.” With
“honesty patent to such as were per-
sonally disinterested and officially dis-
criminating, he never failed triumphantly
to vindicate his performance of various
duties that devolved upon him.”
He rode and controlled the storms that
rose in Honduras, raged furiously in Van
Diemen’s Land, blew strongly in Upper
Canada, calmed down in Bombay, and
dispersed only when, worn out with illness
and strenuous public labors, he returned
to honorable retirement in his beloved
England, which had, in spite of torrents of
vehement abuse and complaints, approved
his conduct, admired his strength, rewarded
his devotion, and remembered him in the
ranks of her great imperial proconsuls.
Arthur, Mr. Levy thinks, was “in
character simple and direct.” He was
“no canting humbug, but a sincere and
practical religionist” who “ firmly
believed in, and from his own experi-
ence quoted instances of divine interven-
tion in human affairs and God’s punish-
ment of sinners.” He displayed “the
more prominent Christian virtues 4 ’;
and so did his good and prolific
lady. She did not, it seems, like Lady
Jane Franklin (in whom Mr. Levy admits
that there was “much that was attractive
and romantic”), indulge in “adventurous
gallivanting through the unexplored wilds
in convict-borne litters.” This was “not
her notion of ladylike conduct,” and she
likewise “refrained from meddling in
politics and bringing her husband’s posi-
tion into jeopardy.” Like “a well-
brought up British matron, she devoted
herself to the care of her home, the pro-
duction of a dozen children, for which,
poor woman, she paid dearly in attacks
of thrombo-phlebitis, and long, painful
recoveries.”
As for the love-life of this joyous pair
—her husband, like herself, appears (with
Mr. Levy’s approval) to have been “stiff,
straitlaced and aloof”:
It is characteristic of Arthur that, much
as he loved his Eliza, he loved duty more,
so that, when, during the Black War, she
was brought to childbed and was extremely
flj> he refused to take leave which other
officers were requesting on much less
reasonable grounds; but, in preference,
stayed at his post on the Cordon.
For “readers first introduced to Arthur
by hostile chroniclers” as “a grim,
insatiable torturer of convicts and
soldiers” and “the heartless agent of ruin
for bereaved wives and destitute
children,” Mr. Hevy provides a touching
picture of the proconsul in the midst of
his quiverful of little Arthurs;
“He sought out the best governesses
for his dear little girls and talented tutors
for the boys.... he always made
it part of his engagements during the
evening to hear the children repeat several
hymns that had been committed to memory
during the past week and 20 verses of
Scripture which,’’ said one of his appre-
ciated, and appreciative, guests, the mis-
sionary Rev. G. H. Walker, “was an
encouraging sight in those uttermost parts
of the world.”
Obviously the Governor was, as Mr.
Levy says, “at heart a typical, respect-
able, home-loving paterfamilias—a gentle,
loving parent; a kind and attentive and
faithful spouse... .no neglectful husband
and infatuated adulterer like Sorell,” his
predecessor—whose elopement with a
fellow-officer’s wife had taken place
under such circumstances that it did not
unduly shock moralists like Lord
Bathurst, then Colonial Secretary.'
Neither was he in the same category
with his successor, the “hen-pecked,
uxorious Franklin.” These vice-regal
persons were of no more account beside
Mr. Levy’s hero matrimonially than they
were officially.
Most historians give Sorell great credit
for the organisation which brought Van
Diemen’s Land to the condition which
permitted of its being given self-govern-
ment shortly after Arthur’s arrival, and
Macquarie even more, and Brisbane a
little; but, to Mr. Levy, Macquarie is an
“overbearing busybody,” Sorell the mere
slave of the N. S. Wales Governors and
Brisbane a “weak muddler.” He has
nothing but scorn for the “Golden Age”
of Sorell, whom he sees as having time
and inclination for “dawdling at his
Macquarie-street gate....in neighborly,
condescending gossip and distribution of
favors.”
The public administration launched by
Arthur (to him) “owed its lasting strength
and quick and easy functioning, to the
untiring activity, the thorough planning,
constant supervision and unremitting
insistence on correct standards of con-
duct and regularity of procedure, of its
parent and official head,” Governor
Arthur. “This god in the administra-
tive machine was an exemplar of official
energy.” As time went on, it appeared,
he delegated a lot of work to other
officials; but even then he continued to
“work a solid sixteen hours a day”—not
counting, one presumes, the time which
he devoted so regularly to the religious
exercises of his little quiverful.
It is sad to hear that his devotion and
virtue were so little rewarded. His
official honesty has often been impugned ;
and there seem to have been even
dastards, who shock Mr. Levy, men
whose own hands were not overclean in
money matters, who put about canards
outrageously libellous about Arthur and
difficult of refutation by one hold-
ing his position in the colony. Suffice
it to say that he had “a comparatively
small salary” and a saving nature, had
“neither land grant nor pension,” and
that if he left the colony with “a fairly
large fortune,” this was “amassed by
legitimate methods.... he avoided con-
temporary prodigality and was, on occa-
sion, careful with his pennies to the point
of parsimony.” Who can cavil at a
Governor with “a large family” who
amassed 19 local estates of 15,048 acres,
local securities worth £14,136, and land
mostly bought at auction, the rest from
rents,. loans, some made even to his worst
political enemy in the colony— at the
then normal 10 p.c.? Values, of course,
were nominal.
Mr. Levy does not find it curious that
an officer starting life with nothing, rising
in the Army to the rank of major at 28,
serving eight years as superintendent of
the little colony of Honduras, 12 years
as Governor of the small convict-settle-
ment of Tasmania, a year or so in Upper
Canada and a year or two as Governor
of Bombay should in the early 1840’s be
possessed of capital totalling £345,000
bringing in £44,850 a year. The acquisi-
tion of it “must be attributed to busi-
ness acumen ; there is no creditable evi-
dence that he became rich by roguery.”
Presumably his commercial deals were
done outside the “solid 16 hours a day”
he devoted to official duties and those
given to hearing his little ones recite their
hymns.
Other colonial Governors must have
envied him. All the early ones of Aus-
tralian history died poor (unless they had
resources), and were glad indeed ot their
pensions of a few hundred a year. M ac "
quarie, who came immediately betore
Arthur and had a wider field for specu-
lation, but who rigidly refrained
the practices which were normal with
Arthur, was actually ruined by holding
the Governorship of N. S. Wales for a
dozen years.
Arthur’s term needs a much more
acute and dispassionate examination than
Mr. Levy has given it before a propei
historical judgment can be passed on it.
M. H. ELLIS.
Australian Drama
With skill, industry and patient scholar-
ship, Leslie Rees has made a com-
pendious survey of local playwriting to
date in Towards An Australian Drama
(Angus and Robertson).
As its title implies, the book is de-
scriptive rather than critical, an impartial
record of endeavor, not a decisive
summing-up of achievement. Often it is
written without reference to any steady
standard of judgment; at times it even
trails away into a mere parade of plot-
summaries and a catalogue of minor
names.
Oddly enough, this somewhat incon-
clusive approach seldom obtrudes until
Mr. Rees turns his attention to contempo-
rary stage and radio dramatists. In these
passages he seems grimly determined to
treat all comers sympathetically. Why
does Mr. Rees, with his analytical gifts,
restrain himself from cracking-down on
mediocrity?
Is he too heavily conscious of his duties
as chairman of the Playwrights’ Advisory
Board? Is he, as the A.B.C.’s Federal
Drama Editor, decently afraid of dis-
couraging creative effort? Is he con-
vinced that anything written for the
theatre in this country deserves to be
taken seriously? Is he just plain kind-
hearted? Doubtless something , of each,
together with a proud devotion to the
cause of dramatic nationalism.
“I am concerned,” he admits frankly,
“with a study of plays that contribute
in one way or other to the emergence of
an Australian Idea, a conception of Aus-
tralian race-identity.” Mystical phrases
perhaps, smacking slightly of aggressive
insularity. Yet Mr. Rees isn’t a narrow-
minded patriot, even though his outlook
leads him to overpraise things like
Sumner Locke-Elliott’s photographic use
of Army vernacular in “Rusty Bugles.”
He is a shrewd, perceptive critic with a
long experience of reviewing in the West
End and Shaftesbury Avenue.
Very properly, he realises that borrow-
ing from overseas models means think-
ing and writing at secondhand. He
wants a breakaway from non-indigenous
conventions, attitudes and modes of be-
havior ; be pleads for a drama rooted
in our own soil, environment, back-
ground and way of life. In his en-
thusiasm maybe he doesn’t warn strongly
enough against the danger of deliberately
trying to evoke an Australian atmosphere,
of cold-bloodedly exploiting an Aus-
tralian milieu, of self-consciously chasing
Australian stories, characters and idiom.
True, we need chroniclers to resurrect
our myths, legends, sagas and bits of
half-history. Yeats did it for Ireland ;
and Ibsen, during his fervent youth, for
Norway. But that is peculiarly a poet’s
province, at present dominated by
Douglas Stewart. Outside it, as Eugene
O’Neill discovered when launching a dis-
tinctively American drama forty years
ago, the big difficulty is to strike a
balance between localisation of scene and
universality of theme.
Mr. Rees’s early chapters contain
lively extracts from 19th-century manu-
scripts and other source-material. No
routine compiler, he brings to his job a
rare selective ability and a sly sense of
fun. Because he rightly refuses to see
plays merely as pieces of literature, he
passes on some fascinating snippets from
our theatrical past.
In an old melodrama, the noble-
minded hero from Melbourne informs
the Yankee villain: “You are not in
California. A Victorian is not to be
bounced.” The Bulletin calls Alfred
Dampier’s adaptation of Marcus Clarke’s
great novel “an agony in six convulsive
fits with a prologue and several corpses.”
I. C. Williamson tells A. G. Stephens
that “a good play must have heart-
interest.” James Tucker appears as a
dramatist; so does Alfred Deakin, along
with a few more Parliamentarians.
Haddon Chambers leaves for London to
turn out glib popular successes and clean-
up a tidy sum in royalties. And Arthur
Adams, one-time editor of the Red Page
and author of “Mrs. Pretty and the
Premier” (a well-contrived comedy of
amatory intrigue and political scandal),
voices the complaint:
Our greatest obstacle to the production
of a living drama is the importation of
machine-made plays from overseas. Until
the Australian manager is willing to risk
the production of a locally-made play,
instead of importing a ready-made play,
there will be no Australian drama Our
only hope is to write plays that no manager
can refuse; and to learn our trade we must
have our plays produced.
What Adams said still holds good.
The answer to it? An experimental or
try-out playhouse in our main cities, Mr.
Rees suggests ; a place given over wholly
or at least substantially to the staging of
Australian plays.
Where is the money to come from?
He hints at three possibilities: J.C.W.’s
or another large company; private en-
dowment; State subsidy. Before wiping-
off the idea of a State-sijpported enter-
prise, we ought to- remember that the
Greeks, Shakspeare, Mpliere, Goethe
and Ibsen all received some form of
financial patronage or protection.
Goethe, indeed, was virtually over-
whelmed by it; the Duke of Weimar
proved an artistic busybody.
Lacking either a courageous commer-
cial organisation or an enlightened aristo-
cracy, our one real chance in Australia
is Government aid without Government
interference. It isn’t within Mr. Rees’s
scope to go a-begging, but his thoughts
on this whole subject merit more than a
sluggish glance.
He takes a neat side-kick at N.S.W.
censorship regulations with his bland,
matter-of-fact recital of the banning of
“Rusty Bugles.” In general, though, he
shies off controversy. He is marvellously
polite to the women writers. His dis-
cussion of the Pioneer Players provides a
useful supplement to Vance Palmer’s fine
collection of Louis Esson’s Letters.
In the modern period he has much to
say about Douglas Stewart’s verse-
dramas. At this point, his style lifts
again and he almost ventures into argu-
ment: —
Stewart’s attitude to life is romantic; he
accepts the importance of the individual
without question; he is not concerned with
social or ethical reform ...
The juxtaposition of these three separate
comments is significant; there is over-all
a faint tone of disapproval, as if he
felt that such traits forced aesthetic limi-
tations on Stewart. But isn’t it a
dramatist’s business to be interested in
the fate of the individual? Can first-
rate plays, unless ultimately reduced into
terms of the individual, grow out of an
interest in group conflicts and mass an-
tagonisms? Moreover, does the fact of
a dramatist not campaigning directly for
social or ethical reform prevent him from
stating social problems or ethical
dilemmas? As Rees implicitly acknow-
ledges elsewhere, ail Stewart’s plays so
far have probed into moral issues.
Not that he is less than generous
m his admiration of Stewart’s accom-
plishments. “The Fire on the Snow” is
“a classic of southern literature” ; “Ned
Kelly” is remarkable for “poetic fertility
and intellectual complication”; “The
Golden Lover” has “lasting fascination.”
He objects to “Shipwreck” on the curi-
ously sentimental grounds that it fails to
paint “a silver lining,” and he finds trouble
in penetrating beyond the merely super-
ficial consideration that it is “soaked for
the most part in blood and rape.”
All quibbles and reservations aside,
however, the book’s only major fault is
that it never recounts the author’s own
immense services towards an Australian
drama, both through the Playwrights’
Advisory Board and through the A.B.C.
—which is the only place where Aus-
tralian plays have found a consistent
welcome and, often enough, a wide popu-
larity.
ALLAN ASHBOLT.
DEW, FROST AND SNOW
Dew that the air breathes forth, and frost
Spun out of what white fleece of cold?—
The ram that leaps from star to star
In interstellar spaces grows
The wool that catches on our world.
The dewdrop hanging from the leaf,
The starry crystal of the snow—
Some god who seeks the perfect form
Fashions each flake and lets it fall
Heedless upon the world below.
These things that are, and have no birth
Nor death, returning to the air—
The fables fantasy invents
The mind rejects—dew, frost, and snow
Are manna to our fevered sphere,
Are manna of continuing life
That knows no hard and bitter birth.
That fears no fell and hurtful death—
Mortal! before the song is done
The singer’s mouth is stopped with earth.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


i
m
weehly news of activities 9 values and advantages front Anthony Horderns 9
HhpMSH
■
A
H
ft®
mmmmzmrnmmim®
m
:
&
U > ■ •
‘ - - '-•
m
“Everything from a fox deenvf
tvhistie to ait igh -mure red * *
We completely equip the Hunter
df
A. .22 Hornet Sako rifle, with Mauser type action, ramp
foresight peep or open rear sight, the Sako is a powerful, hard
hitting, accurate rifle, used for small or big game. £57/6/'
B. .22 Keretta automatic rifle. The mechanism follows the
famous Karl Walther principle. It is a single shot, repeater,
or automatic. 5 and 8 cartridge box type magazines, £ll/5/'
C. .22 calibre Litbgow repeating bolt action rifle. A lovely
rifle, with a 25in. heavy barrel and elevating sight. It has a
box magazine. An accurate rifle. Priced at only £lB/19/6
D. .22 calibre Litbgow single shot bolt action rifle. It has a
24m. tapered barrel, elevating rear sight and with a positive
safety. Designed to fire .22 long rifle rim fire ammo. £lO/11/'
News few Bulletin Headers
New shipment ef amine* arrives
m
Gun Cartridges Rifle Cartridges
12 gauge English smokeless
Red Seal iin. deep shell cart.
Size'shot, .3, 4.6, 2Jin. case
27/6, 2lin. case Price 32/6,
12 gauge Eley Grand Prix
smokeless cartridges 2i inch
Price 19/4 2?,, 12 gauge Eley
Maximum smokeless cartridges
2£in. heavy load 22/3 25.
Baschieri and Pellagri (Itah
ian) smokeless 4,5, 6, 7 2lin.
13A packet of 10. 12 gauge
super DD 2£in., 4+6 shot,
all metal heavy load smokeless
cartridges. 25A bos of 25.
.22 short smokeless 1.C.1.* 12/3-100
.22 long smokeless 1.C.1 13/4-100
.22 long rifle 1.C.1 14/4-100
.22 long rifle shotted 19/2-100
.22 Hornet C.F 110/—lOO
25/20 C.F, cartridges 115/—lOO
.44 C.F. cartridges £6/15/—lOO
30/30 C.F. cartridges £7/17/6-100
7.33 Sako C.F 95/—lOO
6.5 C.F. cartridges £l2/5/—lOO
.32 S6?W Kynock revolver, 67/6-100
320 Kynock revolver 37/6-100
.38 Kynock revolver , 77/6-100
450 Scs?W Kynock revolver, 105/—lOO
Special accessaries
V?
M
JN3
m
m
An excellent idea for night
shooting, a spotlight that clamps
on to the rifle. For use with a
6'volt wet cell cycle battery.
With flex, 47/11.
Okeh hunting knife. A must
for every hunter; it has a sin.
blade and comes in a fine leather
sheath. Priced at only 15/6
French Unique, a beautiful
knife in stainless steel, with a
4jin. blade in a leather sheath,
chrome finish. Price only 30/6
m
Cartridge "Belts
Leather cartridge belts for all
sines of ammunition, .22 10/-,
.22 Hornet 14/', 15/10 14/',
32 14/', .303 14/', .410
14/', 12 gauge 17/6.
Cleaning Tools
12 gauge cleaning rods, 3
piece complete 23/6, 2 piece
21/6, .303 ball bearing clean'
ing rods, with jag, 20/', .22
3 piece cleaning rod, with rag
holder, 13/6, .22 one piece
steel cleaning rod, with rag
holder, 3/6, pull throughs,
.22 3A, .32 3/6, .303 3/6,
.410 4/3, 12 gauge 5/6.
mm
Do your
Shopping through
T.O.P.S.
Ring T.0.P.5., our new
Telephone Order Service de-
signed for your shopping
convenience. Dial M 2401
and can shop at any counter
in our store. T.O.P.S. trained
assistants shop for you. We
will deliver your order to your
home or office. There’s no
easier way to shop than
through T.O.P.S. House-
wives, executives, shift, fac-
tory and office workers, all
use T.O.P.S.
Gun Repairs
If you leave your guns in our
repair department, the gun
and sights will be repaired
for you, and you can be
assured of a good job, because
all repairs are carried out
under expert supervision.
d
iiil
GUNS AND AMMUNITION, LWR. GROUND FUR., PITT ST. M 3401. BOX 2713,


An Amazing Invasion
CONTRABAND CHINESE
By HENRY G. LAMOND
DURING the seventies and ’eighties
of last century, when the Aus-
traiian Ma.es were separate
colonies, the Palmer goldfield, in
north Queensland, was the foot of the
rainbow for tens of thousands of Chinese
00 a !-? S ‘ ■ f .
After coming from China by devious
th f Q ueensland
poll-tax hurdle £lOO-a-head. But those
illiterate coolies knew the difference be-
tween £lOO and half-a-crown, which was
the entrance-fee into the Northern Terri-
,f art of . South Australia,
Palmerston (later called Port Darwin,
now Darwin) was its port of entry.
In north Queensland, too, wealthy
Chinese, according to reports, imported
many coolies, paid the £lOO-a-head and
indentured them to work their way clear,
o* tnose yellow slaves may have
died in the process of freeing themselves ;
a number may have skipped and gone
bush with the debt unliquidated ; the
myall blacks probably killed and ate quite
a number . , in spite of those losses
fit SinCSS s “ owed a handsome
pr rf t ' e .
Une or my earliest recollections dates
back to the year ’B9, the main street of
Cooktown filled with Chinese. They
weie celebrating—crackers were explod-
mg, songs were being sung, tins were
being banged. That announced the birth
or me first full-blooded Chinese baby in
Cooktown. The father had a store near
Captain Cook’s monument. He had im-
ported two wives from China,
One other memory is of a line of
Chinese coolies. Like a string of mules,
or a team of camels, they were loaded
with goods for the interior. Each had
a bamboo pole across his shoulders, a
basket slung at each end ; the weight
assigned to each man is unknown. The
boss Chinaman, mounted on a hairy
pony, gave orders which were obeyed
immediately. The line started, going at
the jog-trot peculiar to Chinese laborers,
every man in the string seeming to be
talking to an opposite-number who was
furthest away from him.
Perhaps that was how the importer
got his money back from his coolies—by
using them as beasts of burden. Later
I heard from many men who knew the
industry well that many of those carriers
actually were treated like horses or
mules: those with fistulas on the shoul-
ders were vetted as a draught-horse would
be ; those whose sinews and muscles were
strained were fired, as it was once the
custom to tighten the tendons of broken-
down racehorses. They earned their
£loo— plus!
The ones that came in by the back-
door at Palmerston, paying the South
Australian tax of 2s. 6d., were free to
go where they wished. There is no
authentic history of their doings, but in
the early years of this century there were
men on the Barkly Tablelands who
claimed to know something about them.
And as a station-manager on the
Barkly, on the route the wandering
Chinese were supposed to have taken, I
myself saw much evidence of their
work.
It seems that when those gold-hungry
coolies landed at what is now Darwin
they were met by agents of their own
breed. Those fellows, apparently, in
the manner of agents of all races even
to this day, told the coolies a tale or two
which fired their imagination and
whetted their hunger. They were eager
to get started on the golden trail for the
Palmer goldfield in Queensland, 2000
or more miles away.
There were no roads, no signposts, no
shops at the corner ; nothing but hard
going and much danger in between. That
didn’t daunt the coolies: they were in
the promised land.
It seems that the first stage of the
journey was to hit the headwaters of the
Ranken River (now erroneously called
the Rankine). That, in a straight line,
would be the best part,, of 500 miles.
They required guides. That was where
the agent showed he earned his commis-
sion: he had the best guides in the
world all ready for the job. A blackboy
who was skilled, competent and experi-
enced was ready (all blacks of any age,
males, are known as “boys”).
It can be taken for granted that the
agent, when he took his commission,
did not tell the coolies that no “boy”
ever dared to go outside his own towrai,
or hunting-ground. When he reached
his limit the guide would hand them over
to another ; if one happened to be handy.
If another wasn’t on the spot, then the
first fellow would just disappear. The
wonder is that any got through ; but there
is ample evidence to this day to prove
that many did.
For the coolies who reached the head-
waters of the Ranken, if the season was
reasonably good the rest was easy—well,
comparatively easy. Quite a number of
white men have perished trying to cross
the gap where the Ranken runs out at the
Twenty-two Mile and forms again at the
Bucket Hole. If they crossed that 10-
mile obstacle and weren’t lured into the
desert in the south, then they ran the
Ranken to its junction with the Georgina,
where the old Austral Downs homestead
used to stand.
There they were within striking dis-
tance, only 20 miles, of the Queensland
border, with £99 17s. 6d. saved {less
“commission”).
By the time they reached the Georgina
they would be footsore, emaciated,
starved and weary. But they had hope.
The stations on the border would feed
them, give them fresh supplies, start
them up the Buckley or Templeton River
or Gidyea Creek (named Mingeri Creek
on maps). They would pick-up the head-
waters of streams running in other direc-
tions and follow them down. Several
men have told me—and that fine old
overlander and great cattleman, the late
Walter H. Rose, was one of them —that
about one in 10 of the coolies would have
a parchment map approximately 4in.
square. That microscopic plan, almost
needing a glass to read it, showed the
run of all rivers, waters and other strik-
ing physical features from the Georgina
to the Palmer River on the eastern coast.
The chief need of the stations on which
they rested was water., The coolies built
across the streams dams which were
counted on to make the waterholes per-
manent. Those dams were huge banks
a quarter of a mile or so long, up to
100 ft. at the base, 12ft. or more high.
But the dams were useless. They stand
today as monuments to futility. They
don’t add so much as one minute to the
life of any waterhole. The soil in that
country, once the water is forced to
surface-level, is as porous as a sponge
and as grasping as an octopus.
' The coolies built those dams by hand.
They threw banks across parts of
Gardiner’s Bluebush, on Happy Creek;
mainly they confined their efforts to
blocking the mighty Georgina. There is
a bank today across the river where I
had the present Austral Downs home-
stead built; there is another great effort
at the junction of the Georgina and the
Ranken; there is one at Dead Dog
Waterhole; there are smaller ones, and
one which is at the bottom of the hole
known as Lake Nash, the homestead site
of that huge station.
There were no ploughs, scoops or
other earth-moving equipment in that
country in those days. With pick and
shovel those coolies must have toiled
like ants. They must have carried the
soil, a grain at a time as it were, to make
those banks. They shifted great rocks,
6ft.-cube; they paved by-washes and
overflows; they tramped the banks
solid; they slaved for the handful of
rice and the feed of meat with which to
build up their strength for the road ahead.
They may have dug wells, too ; it is
more than likely the well at the old
Austral homestead, 200 ft. deep and dry,
was sunk by those coolies.
One puzzle about those wanderers may
never be explained. About three miles
west of the river, out from the Dead Dog
Waterhole, on the high and stony downs,
there was a line of boulders each as big,
say, as a man’s head. They were evenly
spaced, in a straight line, pointing to-
wards the desert. No white man would
waste time and energy picking up those
stones and laying them like that; I know
enough about the blacks to state that
none of them would have done it for
pleasure. The only ones who could have
left that secret message were the Chinese
coolies. So far as I can learn I am‘the
only man who ever saw that line. If
whoever laid the stones intended them
as a mystery, then the end was achieved.
I give it up.
When the coolies had done their three-
months-hard on the border stations, had
carted much muck and piled many stones,
they were strong again with the food they
had had, and rich with dreams of for-
tunes. They were given a start up one
or other of the three watercourses which
would lead them to the Cloncurry
Ranges; were well supplied with rice
and other odd bits of rations ; had their
maps to consult; and had over 1500 miles
of unknown country ahead of them.
They had hardships in plenty. They
had to pass through the towrais of many
hostile natives.
There is a gap from the Georgina to
the Palmer in the track of those coolies.
I have seen them on the coast at Cook-
town ; I have examined the work they
did on the Barkly; no one has ever sup-
plied one link of the rest of the journey.
Crows and goannas are commonly sup-
posed to live to a ripe old age of a
century or more. Perhaps some elderly
crow or goanna might, if it could speak,
tell of the carcasses of Chinese coolies
who fell by the way. The blacks might
have had some secret corroboree about
it. If they had it has followed them, and,
like them, left little trace of ever haying
been alive.
The Announcer Does His Last Session
Before Resigning
{< 11 ■i X® VE just been listen-
ing to Frankie LoOn howl-
ing ‘Ma Baby’s Adam’s
Apple, It Sure Gives Me
the Pip.’, Wasn’t it terrible? Well,
there are about twenty more
examples of Frankie’s lugubrious
groaning that are a damn’ sight worse
than that one lined up here for your
torture later on, so don’t say I didn’t
warn you to chloroform yourselves.”
Ding-dong-ding... “Are you look-
ing for an unreliable watch? Then
you couldn’t do better than buy one
of the alleged Swiss-movement time-
pieces going at Boobsniffle’s for fifty-
seven and six—though they won’t be
going for more than about a fort-
night before either the stem comes
out in your hand when you pull it
to alter the hands, or it mil be gain-
ing fourteen hours in every twenty-
four. And if the six pieces of colored
glass in the back were capable of
blushing they’d go a bright puce every
time they heard themselves described
as ‘jewels’......
“Now that brings us to another
vital announcement. If you can’t get
to sleep at night without the aid of
drugs your troubles are over. All
you have to do is listen-in tonight to
the description from this station of
the inter-State chess championships
sponsored by Dworps, makers of the
famous Drabgloss floor-polish.
“All you have to do to make your
kitchen lino, look even duller than
before you used Drabgloss is put
half a tin of it on and rub like hell
for half an hour. You’ll simply love
that tacky feeling as you walk over
it and tramp the stuff on the soles
of your shoes all over the carpets.
Buy a tin today and kick yourself for
a prize mug tomorrow. It’s four-
and-ninepence a tin, just four-and-
threepence more than it’s worth.
Don’t remember the name: Drab-
gloss, the floorpolish that sticks.
“Now here’s Perry Bomo to yawp
‘Ah Kaint Keep Away From Ma
Honey, But Ah Always Was a Dopy
Bee’...
“Are you a martyr to fainting-
fits, excruciating stomach-aches,
falling arches and hair, eyebrow-
twitchings, the hives, the heaves,
gingivitis, flatulence, depressed warts,
barnacled liver, the mange,
elbow, tight shoes or alcoholism?
Do you have a feeling of tightness
after having eaten only a five-course
meal? If you are over ninety do
you puff when running up moun-
tains? Do you get spots before the
mouth and/or eyes? If you are or
do any of these, then you don’t
need Dimdome’s Spirits of Spoopju.
“Spirits of Spoopju is laughed at
by the entire medical profession.
Dimdomes have coughed up fifty
quid for this ‘plug,’ but they’ve
poured their cash down the sink,
which is where Spirits of Spoopju
should also be poured. If you have
already invested in a bottle, how-
ever, you can save something from
the wreck by inserting it in a cat you
may wish to destroy, or use it as a
lubricant in your lawn-mower. It
will be a beautiful excuse not to push
that thing when its works gum-up.
But far better its works than yours.”
Ding-dong-diqg... “Now here’s
another number, if any of you are
still valiant enough to be tuned-in
to this tripe; It’s Duke Wellington
and his Sable Swingsters, and they’re
going to play for you ‘When Lulu
Looks at Me Like That I Could Kick
Her in the Teeth’.. ,
“Now here’s'a special announce-
ment! Listeners who have the in-
quiring mind developed to such an
extent that they are impelled to find
out just how bad a radio serial can
be shouldn’t fail to listen-in to this
station at six-fifteen, when the first
episode of ‘The Case of the Boiled
Waiter’ is due to take the air—and
so will listeners be after five minutes
of it.
“You’ll be horribly bored by the
alleged deductional brilliance of
Buckingham Bilge, who is a pale mu-
tation of Sexton Blake. If the thrills
in it could be translated into electrical
units there wouldn’t be enough in
two hundred episodes to give a faint
glow to a pocket-torch. Now just
forget—it starts at six-fifteen. And
it’s sponsored by the makers of
Bubbleflow toothpaste.
“Bubbleflow is a toothpaste with
a difference. The difference between
it and other toothpastes is that
Bubbleflow supplies the dental-decay
germs with the nourishment and vita-
mins so necessary for their continued
well-being. And what little enamel
is left on your teeth by the time the
Bubbleflow-stimulated wogs have had
a go will be completely settled by the
abrasive action of the toothpaste
itself. Remember the slogan adopted
by the makers of Bubbleflow; ‘Down
to the gums in six tubes
“Now here is Joselyn Jerck to
whinge for you T Ain’t Got Nobody
To Blow Up Me Falsies.’ Good-
bye, now!”
BO.
Short Story
“All The Trimmings”
by Kylie Tennant
Miss Tennant, whose novels have
opened so many new avenues into
Australian life, makes another new
departure, this time into the com-
plexities of button-manufacture.
RACES AND TRACES
WHAT makes Australians the in-
veterate gamblers they are?
I interviewed dozens of New
Australians —psychologists, pro-
fessors, and just plain intellectuals. Some
of their opinions were complimentary,
others not. A few samples :
It may be a throwback to the devil-
may-care attitude of the old colonial
days, when the first settlers and convicts
had everything to gain and nothing to
lose.
The way of the “lazy man” to get
some easy money.
An inferiority complex, which finds its
expression in delegating the issues of
money-making to horses, cards, two-up
and the lottery.
A wonderful expression of the light-
heartedness of a happy-go-lucky people
(this mostly from fellow-gamblers of
different nationalities, to which group —
unfortunately—l belong).
A sense of fair-play (mainly expressed
by two-up enthusiasts).
An expression of wealth and generosity.
More money than is good for them , . .
Well, which one do you think is the
case?
STEPHEN KRLRN,


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 24, 1953
VoL 74—No. 3828
The National Australian Newspaper
‘‘Australia for the White Man*
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior '
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland ; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
SLY AND SPECIOUS
Australian “Labor” can see nothing but bright
lights ahead if only “Labor” can be again given
Federal office: full employment, increased wages and
compulsory unionism, even a one-party permanent
dictatorship, so much money to burn that capitalists
will rush hurriedly along to invest it at 3| per cent.,
cheaper living—in fact, generally a high old time. Of
course, at the expense of the capitalist; but even he
will be happy, for socialisation is dead —has not Dr.
Evatt said so?
British Labor appears to have none of these bright
hopes. It is preaching stern austerity and self-sacrifice,
“deliberate” discrimination against the dollar what-
ever it may cost, harder work, “sacrifices —not only
of material benefits, but of many cherished habits and
traditions.” Socialism, harsh, uncompromising and
dominant, and “iron medicine all round,”
It is possible to respect a party which puts up
such a programme after the 13 years of shortage and
hardship which the British people have undergone.
But no such frankness ever comes from Australian
“Labor” leaders. They are always on the side of
sloth, industrial greed, political bribery and dissension.
Everything is sly, smooth and specious in
“Labor” propaganda in Australia today. It maintains
the socialisation objective, but says it is dead. It is
unificationist, yet Federal and State “Labor” alike yell
about the poor suffering States. Its platform demands
the clothing of the Commonwealth with sovereign
powers and with authority to “create States or pro-
vinces with delegated powers”; yet it fights fiercely at
the same time to develop a position under which the
States shall remain sovereign and the Commonwealth
not sovereign, but merely a collecting and loan-
raising agency which will pump shekels into the State
Treasuries for State “Labor” Governments to spend
without responsibility.
Mr. Fadden recently described the position as one
of “extreme irony”:
The most aggressive attacks made on the Com-
monwealth originate with the State Premiers—col-
leagues of the Federal Labor Ministers who imposed
uniform taxation on Australia and removed responsi-
bility from the States. These critics of the Common-
wealth are apt to allege that, however generous the
Commonwealth’s financial assistance may be, the
system is destroying the States. They should be
pleased, for that Is not only the policy of the Federal
Labor party, but also the policy of all the State
Labor parties.
They advocated, he said, “the abolition of all State
Parliaments, the destruction of the Federal system,
and the concentration of all political power in a single
House of Parliament at Canberra.”
In this “Labor” is again acting flatly against
every principle its platform enjoins it to stand
for. It believes in One-House Government. When it
came to reform the Senate it threw its principles over-
board —Dr. Evatt 1 was the thrower, as in the case of
the casting-away of socialisation —and decided to
plump for an outrageous system which it designed
to produce permanent deadlock so long as the Menzies
Government had a mandate to govern. Except for
one State, whose gallant adherent to the party platform
afterwards died worth half a million, it is the same
story whenever the question of the abolition of Legis-
lative Councils, a firm plank in every State “Labor”
platform, comes up for serious consideration. The
whole of the A.L.P. conference which met in Sydney
went white about the gills when some tactless branch
raised the question, and it didn’t recover its equanimity
until the agenda committee —those blessed censors of
proceedings —found a lame excuse to prevent the dis-
cussion. Not a State delegate rose to protest; not a
Federal one, even though the guardians of Federal
rights were present in person, rose to call on the
Cahills to implement Plank 9 of the Federal platform:
Abolition of State Legislative Council and State
Governors.
Present trends are towards the destruction of the
Commonwealth through the sucking of its lifeblood
by the predatory “Labor” States acting in diametrical
opposition to their own avowed principles and
platforms. The Commonwealth, as Mr. Fadden again
put it, is held up by “Labor,” Federal and State alike,
as “a bad, bold brigand greedily withholding the
treasures of an Aladdin’s cave from the beautiful
State maidens who prowl, ill-clad and starving, in the
dark wastes beyond.” But he says the Commonwealth
Treasury has become the victim of “voracious
plundering” —by State “Labor” Governments.
The Australian “Labor” party has ceased to be a
FORCIBLE FEEDING
party with principles. It is a huge pressure-group, of
which the “Labor”-controlled States are part of the
machinery. Its leadership is no longer drawn from the
working-class but from hangers-on—lawyers on the
rise, rich publicans, speculators and company-
“fixers” on the make, commissars of the unions,
often Communist-trained, who more truly deserve the
name “bosses” than the capitalist elements to whom
the name is sneeringly applied. Its aim is dictatorship,
monopoly of power—as Mr. Calwell says, “per-
manent one-party Government.” It is prepared to sell
the country piecemeal, to squander all its resources on
non-productive bribery of the electorate to attain that
end. Everything which gets into its clutches is for sale
in return for votes—principles, public assets and what-
ever the Governments it controls can beg, borrow or
blackmail out of the community.
Join—or Else!
In the traditional manner of leaders of “Labor”
Governments, who regard themselves as being respon-
sible not to Parliament or the people but only to that
section from which they draw their votes, Acting-
Premier Heffron made an important announcement on
policy at the conference of the N. S. Wales branch of
the A.L.P. This was that his Government would, in
the course of the coming session of Parliament, bring
down legislation to compel all wage- and salary-
earners in N. S. Wales to join a trade-union. The news
was naturally greeted with cheers by the delegates, all
of whom were aware of the added strength such a
move would give to their own positions, and of the
huge increase it would mean in the annual revenue
of the “Labor” movement.
It is only four months since the Cahill-Heffron
Government was beguiling the ears of the electors with
reasons why it should be returned to power for another
term. Most of the “reasoning” was concerned with
the iniquities of the Federal Administration, with here
and there among the abuse, like plums in a cake,
promises of legislation designed to make N. S. Wales
a better land to live in. But nowhere in the election-
speeches of Mr. Cahill, Mr. Heffron or any of their
Cabinet cronies was there any intimation that com-
pulsory unionism was one of the plums. A plum it
is, of the very juiciest variety—for the Australian
“Labor” party —but to thousands of people in N, S.
Wales it will be bitter fruit.
It is one thing for “Labor” leaders to assert that
all workers should join a trade-union, advancing the
argument that those who do not join are enjoying the
benefits of improved wages and working conditions
secured as the result of union action. The tale
may sound all right, though it can be refuted in
thousands of individual cases; but it is a moral argu-
ment, not a legal one. It is a vastly different matter
to say that all workers must join a union, while to
pass legislation to give effect to such a decision is a
tyrannous misuse of power.
A century and more ago men now looked upon as
heroes by the “Labor” movement fought and suffered
to establish and maintain their right to form and join
trade-unions. Those pioneer trade-unionists must from
the very nature of things have been individualists —
men who differed from their fellows in that they were
not willing to be pushed and ordered around without
having a chance to speak up for themselves. It is
rather ironic that the “Labor” party, which professes
to consider itself the inheritor of the traditions of those
pioneers, should now be preparing to trample the
rights of the remaining individualists among the
workers, by ordering them to join unions against their
wish and conscience. Ironic, but in no way surprising,
for “Labor,” since it became wedded to Socialism,
regards ordering-around as the proper function of
Governments and union official? alike and the attain-
ment of office, with the consequent power to order
around, the chief function of the “Labor”-party
machine.
Therein lies the main reason for this audacious
and unadvertised move. Party funds are derived from
the unions, and in general the bigger the union
membership the bigger its contribution to party funds.
Obviously maximum contribution can come only from
maximum membership, and as maximum membership
cannot be obtained without compulsion, then compul-
sion is the only course to adopt. In “Labor” logic
there can be no other answer. If, as is undoubtedly
the case, this means that thousands of people will be
forced to contribute, through union funds, to a poli-
tical cause they heartily detest, those “Labor” poli-
ticians possessed of faces still capable of registering
a grin probably regard that a ripe subject for what
Gilbert used to call innocent merriment.
The question has been raised as to how com-
pulsory unionism squares up with the United Nations
Declaration of Human Rights, for which Dr. Evatt
and his followers high and low profess such reverence.
It doesn’t square up at all. It contravenes the pro-
vision of the declaration guaranteeing “freedom of
thought and conscience,” that proclaiming “the right
to work and to free choice of employment”; it
infringes the principle of “equal pay for equal work” ;
it denies “equality before the law.” The declaration
affirms that “everyone has the right to form and join
trade-unions for the protection of his interests,” but
it says nothing about any right to force other persons
to join. On the contrary, after proclaiming, in Article
20, that “everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful
assembly and association,” it adds, “No one may be
compelled to belong to an association.”
Mr. Heffron and Mr. Cahill had better brief Dr.
Evatt, one of the architects of the declaration, to find
them a legal loophole through which to push their
proposed bill
The promised legislation is an immediate threat
to liberty only in N. S. Wales, as it will apply only
to persons working under awards of that State; but
already requests have gone out to Federal “Labor” to
make the measure Commonwealth-wide, if and when
returned to power in Canberra. The power of a
Federal Government to do any such thing rests on
very shaky ground, but the willingness of a Federal
“Labor” Government to try, once given a lead by its
Sydney colleagues and its instructions by their mutual
masters on the A.L.P. executive, is undoubted. Deputy-
Leader Calwell, in speaking blithely, if not longingly,
of the possibility of Australia becoming a One-party
State, with “Labor” of course, the only party, left
little doubt where he would stand on the subject.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Dr. Rhee Settles an Issue
The sudden release by Dr. Syngman
Rhee of 27,000 prisoners-of-war from
Korean camps, including American
camps, has precipitated a crisis which
Solon himself could scarcely solve.
The Chinese, in heavy attacks during
the previous few days, had shown their
ability to keep on fighting, and even to
dent the line of the Allies in some places,
though the overall effect of their attacks
has been somewhat exaggerated in the
Press. They at least feel that if the
fighting were to continue they might
have the advantage—if they could keep
going, and their transport could stand
up to the needs of a moving war con-
ducted basically with heavy-artillery for-
mations. The matter is the worse be-
cause the p.-0.-w. issue all along has been
the chief bone of contention with the
enemy, who has ostensibly delayed settle-
ment for months in order to get his
fingers on the large army of captives
who don’t want to fall back into his hands
at any cost. It is doubly the worse be-
cause the South Koreans seem to have
used or threatened force against the
Americans to aid the escapes.
Theoretically, if the prisoners were
free to go where they wish the Chinese
should welcome the releases because the
eager fellows would naturally make for
home ; but the enemy’s grief in the matter
lies in the fact that, even if the Allies
were foolish enough to allow them to
pass through the lines, most of them
would drown themselves sooner than
do it.
The South Korean Government has
apparently been guilty of a gross breach
of faith with the U.N.O. Allies, but the
whole of the blame does not lie with
them. In the negotiations, although it
concerns their country and their future,
they have been consulted very little. The
whole agreement has been framed out-
side South Korea, and is undoubtedly,
through force of circumstances, at
variance with the objectives which they
and the rest of the world were told that
the U.N.O. would insist on gaining be-
fore making any peace. Circumstances
have dictated this, but the South Koreans
and Asia cannot be blamed for regarding
the agreement with the Chinese as involv-
ing something very like surrender,- even
though it is only a preliminary arrange-
ment.
What the effect of the release of the
prisoners on the armistice negotiations
will be remains to be seen. In a way it
should provide a real test of the sincerity
of the Chinese, if they can be persuaded
that U.N.O. was not a party to the
escapes. For it seems to dispose of the
p.-0.-w. issue. Scarcely any remain in
the camps.
The Shaky Curtain
Events in Eastern Europe become daily
more intriguing. In themselves the
riotous behavior of indignant mobs
throughout the Russian zones of East
Germany and Czechoslovakia would be
significant, since it is rarely that the mili-
tary Governments of the East allow their
ruthless fingers to open far enough to
permit resistance.
Like the riots at Posen and elsewhere
in Czechoslovakia the week before, those
in East Germany seem to have been put
down ruthlessly by military force, with
the aid of tanks and machine-guns,
utterly regardless of human rights,
property or human life. Some rioters
were killed by the Russians out of hand.
A poor consumptive out-of-work was
tried hurriedly by court-martial and shot
next morning without right of public
hearing or appeal at a moment when the
world-wide propaganda of the Com-
munists against the “brutality” of the
Americans in preparing to execute the
Rosenbergs was reaching its hysterical
climax.
There was, of course, no protest any-
where in the name of humanity about
the Berlin incident —it is taken as a matter
of course that Russia indulges in these
cold-blooded barbarisms, and that it is
no more use protesting to Moscow than
to a black snake.
During the past six months the refugee
movement from East Germany has be-
come a mass-movement. In March alone
48,274 people escaped to the West from
East Germany; in the first three months
of 1953, 114,000. In/ April the daily
average was about 1300. West Ger-
many passed special legislation—a
“charter for refugees”—to provide
shelter and food for the influx, some-
thing not so easy in a land with more
than its own share of unemployment and
trouble.
On June 10 the West German Bundes-
rat adopted unanimously a programme
for reuniting Germany, which it proposed
should be urged on Russia by the Western
Powers—free elections for all Germany,
the building of an all-German Govern-
ment, conclusion of the peace-treaty
negotiated with the all-German Govern-
ment, freedom for the all-German Gov-
ernment to negotiate in line with the
principles of the United Nations.
Immediately following that the East Ger-
man Government made its concessions to
the local population—return of a third of
its disguised East German Army to the
labor pool, certain freedoms to farmers
and others and a general loosening-up.
And then came the Berlin affair in all
its fury—something they obviously knew
was coming off and were ( trying to
prevent by conciliation.
Meantime, having established apparent
civilian instead of military control in the
Russian zones of Germany and Austria,
the Russians decided to follow the line
of the other Powers (who were asking
for concrete agreement on the peace
treaty with Austria) and send an
Ambassador to Vienna; also to Tito in
Yugoslavia, who had been complaining
only the week before of increase in
border incidents by Hungary. At the
same time the Austrians were notified
that many buildings occupied by troops
would be released to them, and there
were strong hints about the easing of
border-controls and censorship on mails
—a subject for much warmth with the
Austrians.
Virtually all demands on Turkey
sternly maintained by the Soviet Union
for years—one territorial for the Kars-
Ardahan territory along the Soviet
border, the other for joint control of
the Dardanelles —were suddenly aban-
doned. This pacific bombshell landed
on a day when Greek, Turkish and Yugo-
slav delegates were holding mutual-
defence talks at Athens. Next day there
were hints that a Soviet Ambassador was
about to be appointed to Athens.
It remains to be seen whether all these
moves are due to goodwill, to apprehen-
sion of what is to come, or to something
which already has happened inside the
Soviet zone. There was a strong rumor
abroad last week that Malenkov was dead
and a struggle was in progress between
Army and Communist party for Kremlin
control. There is certainly plenty of
evidence that all is not well behind the
Iron Curtain, and it does not necessarily
follow that, if Malenkov has joined
Stalin and Lenin, the news will be
allowed to leak out till Moscow is ready.
Few students have much faith in the
official date on which Stalin was sup-
posed to have died.
New Technique Wanted
For 18 months or more the political
opponents of “Labor” have been protest-
ing to the leaders of that party that
Federal politics have nothing at all to do
with State politics, and that it is wrong
to fight State elections on Federal issues,
“Labor’s” attitude has been that it doesn’t
matter whether it is right or wrong; the
important thing is that it pays.
These tactics have been used not only
in general elections, but also in by-
elections, the high-water mark being
reached last year in N. S. Wales when
“Labor” captured Ashfield, a Liberal
blue-ribbon seat, after a campaign in
which the followers of Cahill scarcely
mentioned their own policy at all, but
devoted their time to abusing Menzies
and Fadden. Last February the trick paid
off again, when the Cahills won the N. S.
Wales general election by a record
majority.
Last Saturday there was another by-
election in N. S. Wales —to fill the
Dulwich Hill vacancy, caused by the
elevation to the Bench of former Con-
servation Minister Weir. “Labor’s” can-
didate, H. C. Mallam, was new to active
politics, but he brought nothing new to
the campaign. All the old catchcries were
heard again: State issues were almost
ignored or were used merely as an excuse
to attack the Federal Government for not
giving Cahill all the money he asked for.
Cahill himself was away in London,
but Deputy-Premier Heffron came out on
Friday night with a few words of last-
minute cheer. He had no doubt that
“Labor” would win “a resounding
victory.”
The latest reports from the electorate
indicate that “Labor’s” stocks have never
been higher A big Labor majority can
be interpreted as another vote of censure
against the entirely negative and restrictive
policies the Liberal-Country parties are
pursuing in the Federal sphere.
“Labor” won the seat all right, but the
win could hardly be called “a resounding
victory.” Four months ago George
Weir’s majority was 5430. When count-
ing ceased on Saturday Mallam was 1694
ahead of Liberal candidate Ness and a
Communist starter had scored 461, The
Liberal vote is an improvement of 7 per
cent, on the February poll ; Ness’s total
is roughly the same as was scored by the
Liberal candidate in 1950, when the
party’s stocks were at their peak. It looks
as though State “Labor” parties will have
to find new tactics; the blame-it-on-Bob
technique has had its day.
A Wheat Plan That Isn't
The half-baked and undernourished pro-
duction which the Australian Agri-
cultural Council, after three days’ striving
in Canberra, brought forth as a “new
wheat-stabilisation plan,” has its own and
Buckley’s chance of survival. If the
growers don’t shoot it on sight State
Governments will —growers because
they’re unlikely to vote for so incom-
plete a thing, States because the threat
to bread and egg prices will scare them
stiff.
Daily papers have devoted columns in
attempts to explain the thing, each with
its own variation. Ministers and various
“spokesmen” have had their say, and what
it all amounts to is that there isn’t any
real plan—unless the following “text” by
Adelaide “Advertiser” can be called one:
The price of wheat for human consump-
tion in Australia to be the ascertained cost
of production for bulk ports. This price
to operate for the period of the stabilisa-
tion plan, but subject to annual review of
the cost of production.
The price for stockfeed wheat during the
stabilisation plan to be the prevailing Inter-
national Wheat Agreement quota price, or
the export price if there were no Inter-
national Wheat Agreement.
The Federal Government to guarantee
that the first 100 million bushels of export
wheat should return to the growers the
ascertained cost of production of wheat for
that year.
That’s what the A.A.C. voted for;
that’s what the growers, are expected to
vote for and the States legislate for by
November 30 next, when the old
“stabilisation” plan expires and the new
wheat will be pouring in. South Aus-
tralia and N.S.W. opposed it, and the
fact that both are wheat States under
opposing party Governments ought to be
enough for anybody.
But wait! There will be two commit-
tees (in addition to the Wheat Board),
one to “advise on costs of production”
and the other to “estimate the Federal
Government’s liability in respect to the
guarantee,” After each committee
Federal Cabinet will fix growers’ con-
tributions to the stabilisation fund. This
is to be done each season. Next, the
maximum amount of the fund will be
“determined” by the committees. The
Bureau of Agricultural Economics will
help in “calculating” costs of production.
And the plan will operate for five years,
“but it may be reduced to three years to
work with the International Wheat Agree-
ment” —if there is such a thing.
Meantime, although Federal Commerce
Minister McEwen told the A.A.C. “My
Government cannot contemplate this
important industry drifting into chaos
for lack of prior planning,” the so-
called new stabilisation plan is a
stampede. The futility of the A.A.C.
itself is shown in its putting out the plan
when it knows that neither the States nor
the growers are likely to accept it.
"None So Blind"
Queensland Acting-Premier Duggan has
made the profound discovery that the
pound isn’t what it used to be in purchas-
ing-power, He announced this in reply
to Brisbane “Courier-Mail,” which
chided the Premiers for “harping on the
theme that they will have to cut public
works this year,” and reminded the Gair
Government that it had got much more
money from the Menzies Government
than it got from the Chifley Govern-
ment.
Mr. Duggan went on that a compari-
son between what Queensland got from
Chifley and what it got from Menzies
was “by no means disadvantageous to
the Chifley Government.” The paper
didn’t say otherwise. All it wanted to
know was “What is Queensland getting
for such a huge increase in loan expendi-
ture?”
To this Mr. Duggan believes it “should
suffice to quote the 1951-52 expenditure
on capital works and services”;
Railways (mostly new rolling-stock),
£6,448,000; Agricultural Bank loan,
£730,000; forestry, £1,635,000; loans and
subsidies to local authorities, £4,616,000;
main roads, £1,732,000; soldier-settlement,
£908,000; housing, £1,720,000; water-supply
and irrigation, £908,000.
For the coming year Queensland has
been allotted £23 million from the loan
pool for works and housing. In its pre-
election Budget the Gair Government
allotted £3O million for loan works by
drawing on various reserves. But re-
serves, having been expended as election
bait, cease to be reserves, therefore the
Gairs must cut loan expenditure. Mr.
Duggan calls this “lack of confidence
displayed by investors in the loan market
under the Menzies-Fadden Govern-
ment.”
And, in a sort of instinctive effort to
pass the buck somewhere else, he ended
up with “These [works] programmes
have invariably been endorsed by the
Loan Council Co-ordinator as capable of
performance from the point of view of
availability of labor and materials.”
That is open to question. In any
case, as many lesser people have long
since discovered, availability of labor and
materials isn’t' enough ; you’ve got to
have the money to pay for them. And
since in this case it is public money it
cannot be splurged about in the reckless
manner indulged in by vote-hunting poli-
ticians who, though warned often
enough, refuse to believe that the
1950-51 money boom is over.
Two Laddies i 1 the Hielans
“Ek Dum” on the Highland war:
Those two famous Scottish rivals, Wee Robert
Menzies and Wee Archie Cameron, are now in
Bonnie Scotland. Archie limbered up for his
visit at a gathering of Camerons held in the
Savoy Chapel Royal in London to celebrate
the second centennial of the execution of his
namesake, Dr. Arthur Cameron, a rebel of the
Torty-five who was the last man beheaded in
Britain. The service ended with “God Save
the Queen” and “Lochaber No More,” and
any Sassenach followers of the House of
Windsor who happened to be in the Savoy
Chapel that day must have been startled to
find an advertisement for the Royal Stewart
Society on the back of the Order of Service.
A few days afterwards Archie gave a dinner
to all the leading Camerons, including their
25th chieftain, Lochiel (Sir Donald, a near rela-
tive of the Duchess of Gloucester), at which
he was the only teetotaller. He —a Cameron
of Erracht —has gone to visit Lochiel at
Achnacarry and the games at Ballater, at which
the two main sports are (a) tossing the caber,
( b) tossing the usquebagh.
Wee Robert Menzies —Mingies in his native
land —is one of the Menzies of Culdare, whose
ancestors are supposed to have brought the
first larch trees from the Tyrol in 1738 —the
parent trees still stand on the lands of the
Duke of AthoU. The Menzies clan-lands are
next to those of the Camerons and lie
the old main road to the latter’s territory—
take off your hat when passing through Weem,
Aberfeldy and Glendochart —which is probably
the reason for the disappearance of so many
Menzies septs. Though a fighting race, they
were never predatory. Their tartan was similar
to that of the A.L.P. —pure red and white ;
their war-cry meant “up with the red-and-
white,” and their badge merely shows a savage’s
head erased —probably by a Cameron.
The Camerons next door to the west were a
cat of another color. The Chieftain of Archie’s
branch,' Donald of Erracht, was second in
command of the Cameron Clan in “the ’Forty-
five.” Their badge is an armored hand with
a dagger in it; their tartan was invented by
a Cameron wife from among the McDonells of
Keppoch, one of whom got dirked a few
decades before when he tried to introduce
finicky Sassenach table manners to the family
board and could not be dissuaded otherwise
from eating with fork instead of with fingers.
It is familiar as that of the Cameron High-
landers, the old 79th, founded by an Erracht
Cameron.
The war-cry of the Camerons is a simple
yell of Chlanna nan conthigibh, a so’s gheibh
sib feoil— “Sons of the Hounds, come and get
your meat,” which any Cameron can utter,
drunk or sober, in a single breath. They have
a rooted traditional pride in the fact that they
do not take oaths —Archie always makes an
affirmation in carrying out his Parliamentary
duties —for it is recalled that even Cromwell
trusted them to retain their arms on a mere
promise to keep the peace, the only Highland
clan so honored—“no oath was required of
Lochiel but his word of honor.”
Menzies of Culdare has gone to Scotland to
indulge in the traditional family occupation
of planting trees. It is to be hoped for his
safely that Cameron of Onkaparinga has not
gone North to carry out his traditional family
occupations. The Menzies is already in trouble
with the Robertsons who live on the east of
the Menzies country and whose war-cry is
“Fierce when angered.” They claim that the
Chieftain of Culdare-Canberra is opening a
hydroelectric station in their territory. At last
report Mr. Menzies and his suife were about to
leave hurriedly for Nairobi in the heart of the
Mau Mau country, where they will feel safer
than living between the Camerons and Robert-
sons.
Doyle Inquiry
Resuming his evidence at the Doyle
Commission last week S. F. Cochran,
chairman of the Joint Coal Board, said
that a new contract for the restoration of
Cessnock No. 2 Colliery was given to
Constructors, Ltd., because at the time
it was decided not to take coal from
Pike’s Gully. Asked by Mr. Ashburner,
Q.C., whether Mines Minister Arthur
was “at” the Coal Board to furnish a
dragline for the exploitation of the
Liddell seam at Pike’s Gully, Cochran
said;
Yes. There was a difference of opinion
between Mr. Arthur and the board as to
the use of a large dragline.
Mr. Ashburner: Did Mr. Arthur tell
you that you should give Constructors,
Ltd., a fair price?—l have no recollection
of it.
Mr. Ashburner ; Do you know Doyle?
—I have never met Doyle in my life.
Asked whether Arthur had had anything
(Continued on page 7)


to do • with negotiating contracts
for the Coal Board while abroad in 1952,
Cochran replied “No.” He gave the
same answer when asked whether the
board had paid any of Arthur’s expenses
or made any dollars available for him.
Arthur had not exerted any influence
whatever in reference to Constructors,
Ltd., contracts, nor had any other
Minister,
Alexander Walker Walsh, managing-
director of the N.S.W. Mining Co, Pty.,
Ltd. (a subsidiary of the Coal Board),
said that in December, 1952, he recom-
mended the abandonment of the Pike’s
Gully contract. He did not know why
the contract was not cancelled. Nothing
had ever occurred to give him the im-
pression that the contract was “hot”
from the political angle.
Charles Warman Williams, assistant-
chief-engineer of the Coal Board, said
the reports he made on the Pike’s Gully
contract were his own independent view,
and there was nothing improper or
irregular in the making of the contract.
Albert Edward Warburton, finance
member of the Coal Board, testified that
the contract was a proper contract for
the Coal Board to enter into and that
neither Arthur nor any other person had
made any attempt to influence him to
recommend its acceptance.
Gilbert Palmer Roy, sharebroker, told
the court that on September 20, 1951,
Mrs. Doyle, who was a regular client,
had asked him to sell 8000 Constructors
(E. and I.), Ltd., shares belonging to Mr.
Arthur. He had told her she would need
to get an authority from Mr. Arthur.
He had given her a form of authority
which she later brought back signed
“J. G. Arthur, M.L.A.” Till then he had
not known the identity of the Mr. Arthur.
Judge Amsberg showed the witness a
batch of share-transfers, and he agreed
that every signature of J. G. Arthur was
witnessed by R. A, Doyle.
George Montgomery Stafford, solicitor,
said that, acting for Mr. Arthur in
alimony proceedings, he had written to
Mrs. Arthur’s solicitor in December,
1950, saying that Mr. Arthur was pre-
pared to transfer 12,000 Constructors
shares to Mrs. Arthur and her two
children. It was his belief that these
represented Arthur’s complete holding in
Constructors, Ltd.
POLITICAL POINTS
On Monday France was still shopping
around for a Premier with the President
appealing to a committee of 21 ex-
Premiers, Premiers-designate and party
leaders to do something to end the five-
weeks interregnum. Meanwhile the
Bermuda talks between Churchill, Eisen-
hower and whoever is going to represent
France have been scheduled to begin on
July 8.
• •
The Rosen bergs were executed two
years after sentence of death had been
passed upon them, and only after their
counsel had been allowed to use every
facility of American law in attempts to
obtain a pardon, commutation of sen-
tence or a retrial. A couple of days be-
fore they went to the electric-chair a man
called Willi Goettling was arrested by the
Russians in East Berlin and charged with
organising riots on orders from a foreign
Power. He was arrested, tried and
executed the same day.
• •
Questions are being asked whether a
N. S. Wales bill for compulsory unionism
would conflict with Federal law. Here’s
one way in which it might clash. If
a non-unionist became unemployed as a
result of his refusal to join a union and
applied for unemployment-relief the
Commonwealth would have to decide
whether he was eligible, i.e., whether he
was genuinely unemployed. If it decided
in the affirmative it would then be in the
position of paying relief to a man who
was unemployed solely because a State
law forbade his employment. In those
circumstances a Commonwealth appeal
to the High Court would seem inevitable
—and its success hardly less so.
• •
Leslie Haylen ran Mallam’s campaign
in Dulwich Hill and was so successful
that “Labor’s” majority of four months
ago was reduced by about 3200. If he’s
equally successful in his own campaign
next year he’ll qualify for the Parlia-
mentary pension. Dulwich Hill is part of
Haylen’s Federal electorate, Parkes, and
in 1951 his majority was 681.
• •
“Fixer” Ashley is talking of going into
the building trade. Disputing the
P.M.G.’s estimate of £150,000 to £200,000
as the cost of restoring the Sydney G.P.O.
tower and clock, he claims he can do it
for £50,000 and show a profit. But why
waste his talents on a clock-tower? If
be can save money on that scale he
should offer his services to the N. S.
Wales Housing Commission building
homes, at cut-rates. Better still, he could
lend Cahill a hand to get a few of his
public-works contracts finished.
• •
Queensland A.L.P. Youth Movement
is in for a treat this week —Calwell is
going to address them. A suitable subject
would be “Teaching the young idea how
to shoot —a line of bull.”
• «
Unemployment figures continue to fall.
At the end of May 26,787 persons were
receiving relief-pay, compared with
27,294 four weeks earlier. The improve-
ment is not sensational, but it continues
the downward trend of the previous
couple of months;, thereby giving the
lie to the panic-cries of “Labor” poli-
ticians. If only a small portion of the
Evatt-Ward-Calwell prophecies of 1952
had come true there would be half a
million unemployed by now.
In N. S. Wales, according to figures
issued by the Department of Labor and
National Service, employment increased
during May in the textile, clothing, elec-
trical, motor-vehicle and shipbuilding
industries, and there was a slight increase
in the number employed by some Gov-
ernment authorities.
• •
Talking of unemployment, what’s be-
come of Eddie Ward? It must be months
since any paper gave him the chance of
moaning that he’s been misquoted.
• •
N.S.W. Prices Minister Landa faced
sturdily up to a serious problem last
week. Receiving complaints that the
collars on some beer-glasses were a bit
too thick, he sent out a battalion of in-
spectors, who, it appears, measured the
beers and found that in some instances
the boozers were being done out of an
ounce of beer. Publicans have been duly
warned. Who said Cabinet Ministers
don’t earn their pay?
• •
Failure of the English cricketers to
defeat the Australians in the first Test
must have been a blow to Dr, Evatt.
It occurred in a week in which he was
short of something for which to blame
the Menzies Government.
• •
The Tasmanian “Labor” Government
is rather perturbed over the decision of
the Victorian “Labor” Government to
enter the lottery field. “Tatt’s” has long
been a major source of revenue for the
Hobart Treasury, and there’s no denying
FOLLOWING THE SUN
the fact that Victorians have always
been great ones for their “ticket in
Tatt’s.” Tasmanian revenue is bound to
suffer, and the loss will have to be made
up from somewhere. Already Hobart is
casting hungry looks in the direction of
Canberra,
• •
“Labor’s” decision to bring in com-
pulsory unionism in N. S. Wales looks
very like the party’s old tactics of trying
it out on the dog. The 40-hour week
was one instance; compulsory long-
service leave another. With “Labor”
Governments in five States the example,
if successful, would not go long un-
followed.
• •
Margaret Bondfield, the first woman to
become a Cabinet Minister in Britain,
died last week, at 80. When Ramsay
MacDonald formed the first Labor Gov-
ernment in 1924 she was made Parlia-
mentary Secretary for Labor. In the
second MacDonald Government five years
later she became Minister for Labor and
was appointed to the Privy Council.
• •
On Monday Queensland Cabinet and
a seven-man Caucus committee met to
prepare a case for increased Parlia-
mentary allowances. On July 3 caucus
will meet to consider increased allowances.
Neither meeting is to decide for or
against increases, merely to see how much
can be taken from the public purse.
• •
Russia is issuing a special postage-
stamp to commemorate the 125th birth-
day of Leo Tolstoy, and the Soviet Pub-
lishing House of Artistic Literature is
coming out with 5,000,000 copies of his
works during the year of jubilee. Yet
if the preacher of non-resistance came
back to Russia today his chances of
staying out of jail wouldn’t be worth a
Tsarist copeck.
• •
Hughes and Vale Pty., Ltd,,- N. S.
Wales long-distance road hauliers, have
obtained special leave from the Privy
Council to appeal against a High Court
judgment which found that the N.S.W.
Road Transport Act was not ultra vires
the Commonwealth Constitution. Com-
monwealth Solicitor-General Bailey said
the Commonwealth sought to intervene
in support of the States, which will prob-
ably comprise N.S.W., Victoria, Queens-
land and South Australia.
• •
Adelaide “Advertiser” holds that “poli-
tical control of domestic wheat prices
has been a big factor in reducing acre-
ages,” So have the price of wool and,
in the last year, the influence of politi-
cally-minded wheatgrowers’ “spokesmen.”
The “ Tiser” is on safe ground when it
says the future of the International Wheat
Agreement is “uncertain,” that there are
big stocks of surplus wheat in North
America, and that forced selling of those
stocks would hit world parity to leg.
After a “probe” into Red influence in
the Victorian Railways Department a
Communist union official was sacked.
He immediately demanded the right to
appear before the State Cabinet to ex-
plain his case. Acting-Premier Galvin
rightly knocked him back, saying it was
entirely a matter for the railway com-
missioners.
• •
Now Mallam is M.L.A. for Dulwich
Hill it will be interesting to see whether
there was anything in the yarn that Cahill
has been grooming him for Cabinet rank
as Minister for Transport. If the attempt
is made there’s likely to be strong objec-
tions from a section of caucus, particu-
larly in view of the substantial drop in
the “Labor” vote at the by-election.
• •
In Adelaide the fight between the
“Labor” industrial-groups and their
opponents is still on. Latest development
is a charge brought by the Ironworkers’
Association against Clyde Cameron,
M.H.R. for Hindnaarsh, of having
slandered some of its members. They
claim that in an attack on the groups
Cameron said that the Communists would
never be beaten by electing to union
offices “opportunists and bosses’ men.”
The charge will be dealt with by fhe
State executive.
• •
Local Comrades often have a hard row
to hoe in keeping up with changes in
policy and happenings behind the Iron
Curtain. Last week’s “Tribune” was full
of praise for East German Democratic
Republic’s proposals aimed “at easing
relations between the two sectors of Ger-
many.” They found these to be in line
with “the general policy of peace pursued
by the camp of peace and democracy
headed by the Soviet Union.” No sooner
i was the “Tribune” on the streets than
cables from Europe reported that workers
in East Berlin were on strike against the
East German Democratic Republic’s
attempt to reduce their living-standards
: and conditions and that they were being
r fired on and trampled down by Red Army
: tanks. Martial law had been proclaimed
in East Berlin and the alleged leader of
the strikers had been “executed” by
Russians.
• •
South Australia’s Leigh Creek coal-
field, till now an opencut venture, may
ultimately become a deep-mining pro-
position. Boring-tests are now being
undertaken against the day when the
more accessible seams can no longer cope
with the needs of the State’s new power-
houses,
• •
Andre Philip, a French economist, has
worked in several countries in an en-
deavor to study their economic conditions
at first hand. In America he worked as a
lumberman on the Pacific coast, a farm-
hand in the Mid-West and also put in
some time in a steelworks and an auto-
mobile factory in Detroit. Telling a
Soviet delegate to the Economic Commis-
sion for Europe of this he asked whether
he would be given the same facilities in
Russia with the same guarantees of free-
dom of movement. The Russian delegate,
Mr. Amazasp Arutiunian, replied that he
was sure a job could be found for the
Frenchman, but he ignored the bit about
freedom of movement.
• •
Under State Potato Board control the
potato business has become such a mess
that now the Victorian growers want a
Federal board created to take the whole
thing over. What makes them think one
board can do what six boards can’t?
• •
When the Menzies secret-ballot legis-
lation was before Parliament in 1951
“Labor” opposed it strenuously and the
A.L.P. executive decided that it must be
repealed if “Labor” regained power.
Through this legislation several unions
have been able to free themselves from
the Communist grip. It is still A.L.P.
policy to repeal the 1951 agreements.
Is this also Dr. Evatt’s?


Society
“Dash” : At an exhibition of Modern
Art two elegantly-dressed socialites, cata-
logue in hand, stopped in front of a
slightly undulated piece of rock which
represented someone’s conception of
what sculpture should be. “Elizabeth,
if you can stand that in your house. I’ll
buy it for you,” said the first, turning to
her friend. “But, my deah,” said the
second, “if I agreed, my psychiatrist
would think there was something really
wrong with me.”
♦♦♦ *
“Bo”: For far too long those who
enjoy a good howl at the pictures —and
men don’t necessarily make a minority
“Hooks in the throat are very prevalent this time of the year.”
among their number—had a raw deal
from unimaginative directors. The most
harrowing film would end with a bang
and the lights would go up. Men at least
had the brief opportunity' during hat-
groping under the seat to dab furtively at
an eye, but women had no , such subter-
fuge— an£ j t 0 be caught with powderless
face and red-rimmed orbs is as heinous a
feminine crime as to be seen with straight
hair or without a girdle. But apparently
the word has got back to the makers, for
latter-day tear-jerkers have been discreetly
tapered off. Such stimulants to the tear-
duct as the deathbed scene or the noble
act of renunciation and sacrifice have
been pushed back a few hundred feet
from the end. There have even been
recapitulations of the cast, during a study
of which the ravages of saline exudations
may be repaired. Most filmhouses do
their bit, too, by restoring the lights with
commendable leisureliness. Perhaps it
was not done intentionally, but those who
made the J. Arthur Rank film “A Queen
Is Crowned” stepped-down the emotional
voltage engendered by the stirring service
in the Abbey and the pomp and circum-
stance of the great procession before
bringing the film to a close. And that a
documentary is capable of bringing as
many tears as an “East Lynne” or a
“Smilin’ Through” was made manifest by
the prevalence of temporary masculine
colds and the unashamed feminine weep-
ing during the screening of the big Coro-
nation film,
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Ceg”: Railway refreshment-room
sausagesrand-mash when hot are not so
bad; when cold, not so good. Often
before the second snag can be disposed
of it has congealed and set in the gravy.
A fellow-traveller recently solved the
problem neatly. He up-ended one
sausage in his cup of coffee, where it
stayed hot till he was ready to eat it.
Moreover, he swore that the flavor of
the railway was much improved.
“Springvale”: Ambushed by the Nips
on Goodenough Island, we hit the ground
as soon as we heard the ha-ha-ha of
machine-gun fire, throwing ourselves
each side of the trail, flat in the mud.
But Sandy just stood there, bang in the
middle of the track. It was several
seconds before I looked up and saw him,
silhouetted against the faint light of the
dawn skyline. It was several more
seconds before I recovered sufficiently
from the shock of seeing him standing
there plumb in line with the stream of
bullets. Then I grabbed an ankle and
yanked him down beside me. When the
stoush was over he explained. “Cripes,”
he remarked, “have y’ ever noticed how
deceptively slow those flamin’ tracer-
bullets are?”
❖ ♦♦♦
“Feng-Shui”: If anybody had told me
40 years ago that 3000 Australian dead
would one day be buried on Labuan I
would have thought him crazy. There
was a cemetery there in those days on
the slight eminence above the old town
where the small European community
clustered. Australian soldiers have prob-
ably visited it and wondered at the
curious grave-mounds made of solid
concrete erected over the graves of
English soldiers, sailors, officials and their
wives and children who had died on the
island or had been killed in fights with
Ulanun pirates in the v course of the
colony’s history. Some old native who
still remembered may have told them
how they were built to prevent Dyak
headhunters from the mainland from
digging up European bodies and taking
the heads. To establish himself as a
warrior and a marriageable man the
young Dyak brave had to present his
bride with a dozen heads, and the easiest
way to get them was to paddle over to
Labuan after dark, creep through the
jungle to the graveyard and rifle a grave,
Concrete was the only possible answer
to this desecration. Except for the old
“Bit chilly today , Jock.”
cemetery and a Spanish galleon sunk on
the north coast and said to be full of
bullion, there are no antiquities on
Labuan, although Magellan probably
called there, the Portuguese and the
Spaniards occupied it and the Dutch and
the English East India Companies occa-
sionally fought for its possession.
♦!+
“Vingter”: When a visitor from
Texas gave his address as the “U.S.
Grant Hotel, San Antone,” I asked the
origin of the name of the hostelry.
“Waal,” replied the Southerner, “thar’s
two stories about that. One is that General
Ulysses S. Grant had such a mighty thirst
that when he moved out there was gosh-
all left to drink for the locals and some
wise guy suggested naming the bone-
dry saloon after him so that the
town would never forget Sherman’s
crack that ‘War is Hell.’ The other
story is that after the Civil War there
was no means of getting liquor except
by the good graces of the Mexican Gov-
ernment, which issued a special licence
to bring liquor across the border. So
the saloon started trading again with the
first consignment which was made pos-
sible by what was called the United States
Grant. You can take your pick how
the name started, but the U.S. Grant
Hotel is sure a swell set-up.”
* ❖ ❖
“Kingsbro”: The first torpedo blew
off the troopship’s bows ; moments later
the second removed the stem. What was
then left of the original 12,000 tons
sank in minutes. A thousand years later
I fondly patted a destroyer’s plates as it
bumped against our raft. The matelots
grabbed me by my sores, but it didn’t
matter —they could have lifted me with
sharp, steel hooks so long as they put
me down on the lovely, safe, secure ship.
As they half-led, half-carried me along
the deck I requested: “Water.” “ ’Arf
a mo, Aussie,” said one; “wait till we
show you your boat-station in case we
get torpedoed.”
*i* ❖ ❖
“Archaen”; During Hitler’s war an
Adelaide machinery-merchant, assisting
the drive for scrap-metal, hunting
through an old building in which a lot
of Government lumber had been dumped,
came across two highly-ornamented
bronze muzzle-loading guns. Inquiries
revealed that they had once stood in
Government House grounds, having
been sent out nearly a century previously
as a couple of prizes captured from the
Russians in the Crimea. When he
reported his find, with the comment that
anyone could steal them from their
present location, the guns were shifted
to 'a secure depository. News ot me
existence of these two guns may be or
interest to whoever has charge or the
job of making medals for the armies of
the Empire. The original Victoria
Crosses were made of bronze taken from
Russian guns captured in the Crimea,
but I understood the supply became ex-
hausted during the First World War. 1
this is the case, one of those guns could
furnish enough bronze for all the medals
likely to be awarded for a long time to
come. The other gun should remain in
Adelaide, to be placed in the Historic
Museum now being planned, with the
century-old home of Sir Henry Ayers
housing the exhibits,
♦♦♦ ♦> *l*
“F.S.”; Tom Train, the amiable idiot
who spouts weekly in print from notice-
boards on Victorian suburban stations,
gave half a dozen rules for deportment
to be followed by the travelling public
when using the service during peak-times.
It concluded: “It should be no hard-
ship to sit upright for half an hour with
knees together taking up the least pos-
sible amount of seating accommodation
possible.” The Railways Commissioners
should have tried this out first on a
tin of sardines.
♦♦♦ *s•
It was not only the parsi-
mony of various State Governments
which prevented Warrnambool from
acquiring the flags of their States (B.
3/6/’53). Actually Victoria is the only
State with a flag of its own; it consists
of a Blue Ensign with a Union Jack in
the top hoist and defaced by a White
Southern Cross surmounted by a crown
in gold and red on the fly. The other
States are often represented by a Red or
Blue Ensign defaced by their State
badges, but these flags are unofficial,
♦♦♦ ♦+* <i*
“V.J.H.”: Unk White’s dish-happy
bride (B, 3/6/’53) took me back to Heard
Island, where I spent last year. We had
a French cook who had been head chef
in world-renowned hotels. He could
never get used to the idea that his army
of lackeys had been left behind in civi-
lisation, and he used pots with such gay
abandon that the evening wash-up was a
formidable chore, much detested by all.
No amount of arguing convinced him
that he could get along with less, so one
by one they were removed and planted
in various buildings. Things grew pro-
gressively better as the year advanced,
and France never knew the difference.
* * *
“Eureka”: One of my first jobs is now
listed among occupations that no longer
exist. I was a dog-walloper, and my job
was to keep stray dogs away from the
goods that were placed on the footpath
in front of the shop. There were times
when there were almost as many articles
on the footpath as in the shop, and all
the dogs of the district seemed to assemble
there. It was a comic-book that caused
my downfall. I got the sack for neglect
of duty, and there was no use denying it
because there was the evidence for all to
see.
COLD AND HARD
If you’re the cultured kind, who seeks
The heights where mind is cold as ice.
Don’t yearn for Everestine peaks.
But take more practical advice :
Some winter night, arrange to be at a
Show in a Sydney Little Theatre.
Some night, theatrical communities
At Stewart’s “Fire Upon the Snow’’
Will push the old dramatic unities
As far as unity can go :
Words become icicles of breath.
v And cast and audience A feeze to
death.
While axes analyse this plot
The word will pass around the town:
“How worthy, they, of Oates and Scott!
0 noble stand by Lindsey Browne !”
Tears will belie his final witticism.
His pencilled, his unfinished, criticism.
Then “Herald” readers will be told
How Warwick’s first-born play was
marred
Because the theatre was cold.
Also because the seats were hard —
Should Repertory ail and stay sick.
One basic fault may well be—basic.
Yes, many a shivering young actress
I, also shivering in the pit.
Have seen, and. ’specially if she lacked
dress,
I’ve yearned to warm her up a bit;
But being very cold and nervous is
No aid to proffering such services.
I wish no harm to Repertory ;
1 merely look at my thermomedy.
Thinking, as long nights, cold and hoary.
Bring on more tragedy and comedy,
“It takes a lot of mental wonderment
To thaw a bruised and frozen funda-
ment !”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Pharma-sister”: The ex-German New
Aussie was a frequent visitor to the
pharmacy. We were greatly intrigued by
the fact that she had somehow acquired
a typically Scottish surname, and she
delighted us in other ways also. She had
a very lively small daughter. One day
when we asked after Vikki we were told
“Vikki, sanks Gott she is at kinder-
garten.” To this she added “Now I am
a woman of pleasure.”
A* ❖ ❖
“X-Trans”: My Trans-line friends
have been talking in superlatives about
their new train, eulogising its comfort,
its lavish appointments and the speed
of its diesel-electric locomotive. The
“Trans” of my youth may have been a
.poor thing in comparison, but it possessed
a magical quality unknown to its succes-
“ That's my boss — Id hate him to see me seeing HIM in a joint like this!"
sor. To us in our isolation it was a win-
dow on the world ; through it we caught
glimpses of far cities and famous people,
In the hour it stayed with us we greeted
friends and gazed at celebrities, nattered,
maybe, with a State Governor or cheered
Don Bradman and Co. We never knew
what surprise it had in store for us, to-
day it might bring a famous author, to-
morrow a troupe of midgets. As its tail-
light disappeared in the distance we were
again desert-dwellers, far from city lights
—but only until next train-time. Today’s
super-train, doing the 1108 miles in 24
hours, as against the 48 of our humble
steam-train, has no time to entertain
line-dwellers. It stays but one minute
at my erstwhile home-town, and the few
who gather at the station glimpse no
magic casements, but a supercilious
streamlined monster only too eager to
shake the desert dust from its wheels.
4J4
“Benbow”: British colonial flags (B.
3/6/’53) present a problem at times. In
1940 I served in an enemy merchantman
taken over at the Crown colony of Aden,
and we had to make our new ensign our-
selves aboard the ship. Aden’s flag is the
Red Duster defaced with an Arab
dhow in a circle, and the manufacture
of this work of art taxed the resources
of our Danish second-mate, theoretically
our sailmaker. Incidentally, this ship
was the only vessel to fly the Red Ensign
of the colony of Aden; a captured
Italian, the “Ramb IV,” was the only
ship to fly the Blue Ensign of that
inferno.
* <4
“Kelms”: An English magazine has
brought out a supplement with examples
of three-dimensional pictures. They’re
printed in shades of green, red and brown,
and you really need the cardboard-and-
celluloid glasses provided in the supple-
ment to make much out of them. Viewed
in that manner they’re literally outstand-
ing. One picture of a sculptor shows
him standing right behind his work;
another, of a lathe, shows the machine’s
working-parts. Can’t see much future for
it in newspapers, but it should go over
well in some magazines. And it would
be invaluable for illustrating technical
books.
A* A* A*
“C.Q.”: Wrong phone-numbers? A
skywriting-ad. pilot wrote a number over
Melbourne and a few minutes later a
wine-and-spirit merchant was getting
phone inquiries for an article far from
the nature of liquor. The aviator had
written a six and a nine right-way-up
from his point of view, but upside-down
from a worm’s-eye view.
A> *l* ❖
“Effar”: Sixty years ago St. Mary’s
(B. 3/6/’53), originally known as South
Creek, was the most important centre in
N. S. Wales for two industries, tanning
and wagon-building. There were five
tanneries there, and the surrounding
area grew a sufficiency of tan-bark; as
one descended the hill into the town, past
the Anglican church which eventually
gave its name to the town, one was
assailed by a rousing effluvium that made
those of us who lived a mile or two out
smile with derision at “Sweet St. Mary’s,
loveliest village of the plain.” As to
wagon-building, the well-built products
of the two firms, George T. Bennett and
James Bennett, rivals whose workshops
were separated by the main cross-street,
were known and approved throughout the
State. St. Mary’s at that time was the
scene of the annual old-buffers’ cricket
match and the bullock-roast, in the great
days of Bill Garner, Andy Thompson
and George Innes. When “Dee” places
St. Mary’s in the fertile Nepean-Hawkes-
bury valley he errs somewhat. Many
square miles of the district consist of
ironstone-gravel country that grows little
more than tea-tree and ironbark. I
know—my father failed, as scores more
failed, to establish a farm there back in
what to us were the hungry ’nineties.
4*4 >»4 *
“Jasby”: Arrows weren’t the only kind
of missile that could be recovered and
used again (B. 17/6/’53); the old solid
cannonballs had the same advantage. But
“ George! Stop acting the goat !”
it was an advantage that worked both
ways; each side could retrieve hostile
rounds and fire ’em back. Alexander
Tolmer, first Commissioner of Police in
South Australia, who fought on the
Loyalist side in the Carlist war in Spain
during the 1830’s, gave an instance of
this in his autobiography. Tolmer’s
regiment was short of ammunition, so the
quartermaster offered ninepence for every
enemy round recovered. The troops set
to work digging balls out of earth-
works and delivering them to the Q.M.
Presently all the “dead” rounds had been
recovered; they then turned their atten-
tion to current supplies, A cannonball
would crash against the earthworks, rico-
chet and go bounding on into the lines.
A dozen men would leap up and give
chase. The man who reached it first
would chalk his name or initials on the
round, which was then recognised as his.
Tolmer didn’t mention whether the same
game was played on the Carlist side, but
it is reasonable to assume that -the same
rounds went back and forth between the
opposing forces time after time. The
invention of explosive projectiles cer-
tainly made artillery more effective, but
it greatly increased the difficulty and ex-
pense of keeping ammunition up to the
guns.
■*!& ♦♦♦
“Applex”: The American accent noted
by “Doric” (B. 3/6/’53) in the film
“Plymouth Adventure” may not, after
all, be such an anachronism. At least one
authority on 16th-century English
claims that Elizabethans spoke far more
in the manner of present-day east-coast
Americans than any of the accents and
dialects of modern Englishmen.
“Suburbia”: According to a 8.8. C.
schools broadcast depicting English as
spoken through the ages, in 1621 English-
men spoke with a nasal twang. Speak-
ing nasally is not unique to the New
World ; the French seem to have done it
since ’way back.
454
“Macnell”: The Navy has reintro-
duced the term “Fleet Air Arm,” in place
of the present “Naval Aviation.” And
about time.. The new-old title says ex-
actly what it means—a long-range,
reconnoitring, striking arm of surface
ships. Naval Aviation was a non-
descript, too-general description. It
was the Fleet Air Arm which crippled the
Italian Fleet at Taranto; lambasted
Sabang ; found the Bismarck had sailed ;
protected Malta convoys and flew into
action on many other valiant occasions.
Now the term’s heroic War II associa-
tions will be perpetuated.
♦J4 4*4
“S.”: Burl Ives has been singing some
of the old bush songs collected by Dr.
Percy Jones, and some of them should
become popular: especially that delight-
ful dirge “The Dying Stockman” and
the lively “Click Go the Shears, Boys.” 1
But admirable as the venture is, and
fascinating as it was to hear the records
over the A.8.C., I hope some Australian
ballad-singer will come forward to give
these bush songs their proper spirit before
Burl Ives sets the tone for all time. Burl’s
soft, tender, melancholy voice, like the
wailing of a melodious coyote, makes all
the Australian songs sound like the toot-
lings of American cowboys: but ours, I
think, need a wild Irish spirit for “The
Wild Colonial Boy,” a boisterous tough-
ness for many of the convict items, and
a hard, sardonic quality for the shearing,
droving and cattle-camp rhymes. Burl
Ives comes nearest to it in “Click Go
the Shears,” where he has a cheerful
chorus to help him,
& & ❖
“Nakhoda”: Melbourne University is
engaged in an all-out drive to establish
an International Hostel where selected
Indonesian, Chinese, Siamese, Indian and
Australian students can all live together,
the notion being to promote fellowship
and understanding between the races.
The aim is good, but what grounds have
they for supposing that living together
will promote the understanding?
♦♦♦ a* *l*
“A.L.D.”: Many Australian houses,
especially those bungalows of the pseudo-
Tudor type so popular thirty years ago,
have an ornamental feature that is an
interesting example of builders’ conser-
vatism. Gable-ends are topped by orna-
ments of wood or tile that have roughly
the appearance of a snail’s head and
neck. This is the last degenerate phase
of the dragon that decorated the gable-
tops of Viking and Anglo-Saxon houses.
Af * ♦♦♦
“Pat”: In the shoe department I had
been watching while the faddy character
tried on this and that. Finally deciding
on a pair, he elected to wear them and
leave his old ones for mending. The
shop assistant, courteous and attentive in
every detail, brought laces and began the
task of threading them through the new
shoes, but the customer waved him aside.
“I’ll do them, thanks,” he said. “There’s
a special way I like.” On my way out
I heard the shop assistant muttering to
a fellow: “In the war years they were
always moaning ’cos there wasn’t enough
staff to attend to them properly. Now,
when you offer to do the job properly
they won’t let you.”
♦>
“Rooster”: Bill was a stretcherbearer,
newly broken in as a nursing orderly.
A patient strolled into the officers’
ward to which Bill was assigned,
mumbled something about lumbago, and
commenced to disrobe alongside the
nearest empty bed. “Hey,” said Bill,
“who d’ you think you are, strolling
around as if you own the place? Where’s
y’r field card?” Silently the patient
handed over the card. It was the C.O.
of the base hospital—suffering from
tonsillitis.
Af <{<■ £«
“Bert”: My sister called on us the
other day, bringing her son-and-heir
with her. The brat played up all day,
finishing up with a monotonous, never-
ending grizzle for the cowbell on the
mantelpiece. The grizzle was bad
enough, but finally his mother took the
cowbell down and gave it to him. “It’U
keep him quiet,” she said.
A HIT THROUGH THE COVERS
“Many a book bought for a song from the
second-hand shelves has wrought a vast change
in the life of its purchaser.”—' World S News:
To shake your world it need not be
A book on matters psychical,
A volume on astrology.
On way of life that’s communal;
On metaphysics, or the gloom
Of Schopenhauer or some such bird.
By deep reflections on the tomb
Many a man, one must presume,
Becomes incontinently stirred.
But if your life you’d tear apart.
And with Prometheus be kin,
Buy not a tome on life or art
But one on general medicine.
You’ll find that you have got a prize,
And fascinating, every page.
Before long, too, you’ll realise
That as you read your hair will rise ;
One chapter, and you’ll start to age.
Symptoms, set out before your eyes
For one rare, terrible disease.
You cannot help but recognise,
Even to that slow, rasping wheeze.
That swelling you get round your hocks.
The nausea, and the yellow 100k —
My God! You’re almost in your box!
Strangely enough, despite such shocks,
You still keep ploughing through that
book.
You wonder, ere half-way you’ve read.
What miracle’s kept you on deck;
You’re theoretically dead,
A physical and nervous wreck.
Upon the former, don’t you see,
A host of factors must depend. ■
As to the latter, this may be
Achieved, I’d say, quite easily:
Just read the damned thing to the end!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


"The Greatest Name
in the
Battery World”
BATTERIES
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY.LTD..44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
5X8.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
A few days back Major-General
Selwyn Porter was in Borneo for the
dedication of the cross of sacrifice in
Labuan war-cemetery—he having com-
manded an Australian brigade at an
earlier Borneo landing. While there this
time, he heard of his appointment as
C.M.F. representative on the Military
Board in the militia’s top-ranking post,
He was an infantry major in the first
I ibvan campaign.
'
Herewith by Binder, Leslie Rees —
Federal drama editor of the A.8.C.,
chairman of the Sydney Playwrights’
Advisory Board, one-time dramatic critic
of London “Era,” member of the London
Critics’ Circle, author of several plays,
and, as well, of Towards an Australian
DRAMA
A nr. , j . ,i . . T
Drama, Redpaged m this issue. Impres-
sive as this is, it means nothing to that
other, perhaps wider, audience of his,
comprising nippers all over who
know him as the creator of ’Digit Dick,
file midget hero of a comic-strip in
Sydney Herald, and of a tidy shelf of
delightful children s books. Rees, wi
a grin, holds that he would just as soon
work towards an Australian drama
as wnte a comic-strip-the reader-
audience is just as critical, the dialogue
must be a model of conciseness, and the
strip is just one climax after another.
Which might account for the searching,
narrow-eyed look he customarily wears.
„„ , a ,
Macnell on an underwater expert.
When 3LO was run by theatrical entrepreneurs
“announcing SS ISt ? dK=t
with mike, down to the Yarra bottom to broad-
cast its wonders to a listening world. The
result was disappointing—Yarra’s treasures com-
prising mainly old tins and dead dogs. The
diver was Jack Johnstone—since those early
days become one world’s most famous,
and responsible, with his Navy shipwright-
brother Bill, for grabbing £2£ million in gold
from the mined Niagara,
saw Jack was at Moresby after the war, when
he was diving on the pier-legs for want of
something deeper to do. Around us were diving-
suits spreadeagled to dry, fathoms of air-pipe,
bolts, breastplates, shot-ropes and ah the im-
pedimenta of man s fight against the sea. A
slight, greying man of whipcord shape, his
neck projecting from an Elizabethan ruffle of
protective cloth over the hard edges of his
breastplate, Johnstone talked of strange things,
in strange places where the dead ships lie, from
Sydney to Calcutta, from the Goodwin Sands
to Florida. Of the eerie loneliness of the black
Pacific bottom ; of diving in the mouth of the
Hoogli, bodies from the river drifting and
bumping him as he worked; of training divers
at Washington (U.S.) deep-sea school, and slip-
ping a fly into the trainee’s helmet—fly, at
100 ft., becoming restless and sounding like a
Spitfire in a tunnel; and of blasting open
Niagara’s side and directing, from a bell, the
grab Which groped and took a rich £34,000-
mouthful at each bite. Now in New Zealand,
Johnstone has announced his retirement after
LV, e m\ s g,o° d hrc« f , WOrk - ABrandh ‘ Ue
Leslie Melville, vice-chancellor-elect
of the National University of Canberra
in succession to Douglas Copland, is an
economist who does not look like one.
He is an unassuming, equable don, a
practical kind of person whose manner
inspires confidence and who, even after
20 years’ service with the Commonwealth
Bank and the Treasurer, still has the
manner of one who is completely his own
master. An old Shore and Sydney Uni-
versity man, he became South Australian
Public Actuary at 22 and professor of
economics at Adelaide University at 27.
He was financial adviser to the delegates
to the Ottawa Conference in 1932 and
to S. M. Bruce at the World Economic
Conference (1933), chairman of the dele-
gation to Bretton Woods. He became
assistant-governor of the Commonwealth
Bank in 1949 after 18 years as economic
adviser, but after only a year he was sent
abroad as an executive director of the
International Monetary Fund and Inter-
national Bank of Reconstruction and
Development. He served as chairman of
U.N.O.’s Sub-committee on Employment
and Economic Stability, 1947-50. He
used to play a very good Saturday-after-
noon game of tennis.
Retiring after 20 years’ service with
Melbourne City Council, city engineer
P. S. Robinson, a man who persistently
advocated the only feasible solution of
the big wen’s traffic problem —an under-
ground-railway. An Old Digger who
won M.C., after the war he became
general-manager and chief-engineer of
W. B. Carr Constructions. In War II he
was C.O. of the Army’s Railway Con-
struction Unit. He goes farming at East
Doncaster; his successor, deputy-
engineer L. Frazer.
Melbourne has had a singing police-
man ; now it has a policeman parson—
Rev. Francis James Coveney, who
tracked down sin as a London copper
and became a Scotland Yard chief-
inspector. He gave up the London force
when he came to Australia with his
family, and now chases sinners as curate
of St. Barnabas’, Balwyn. Though he
continued with his constabulary duties
after coming to Melbourne two years
ago, he studied at Trinity and Ridley
Colleges in his spare time and had charge
as a layman of a branch-church at Box
Hill The Bishop of Bunbury came
specially from Westralia to ordain him.
First diploma in textiles to be issued in
Australia goes to a Colombo Plan student
at Geelong’s Gordon Institute —Bal
Krishna Kimothi, formerly a teacher at
Cawnpore Agriculture School and a
bachelor and master of science from
Lucknow University. The institute has
three other Asian students doing a simi-
lar course under the plan.
In the intervals of managing the French
Government Art show at the National
Gallery in Melbourne, director Claude
Bonin Pissarro can take a look at pictures
in the Felton Bequest collection painted
by a grandfather and an uncle. He is a
grandson of Camille, who was a pupil of
Corot, a friend of Millet and a partisan
of the Barbizon School, which started the
Impressionist movement which slid into
the modern. His grandfather’s picture,
“Boulevard Montmartre,” is one of the
most prized exhibits in the gallery, which
also has a woodcut by his uncle, Lucien
Pissarro. A painter himself, Claude
Pissarro was authorised by the Nazis
during the Gefman occupation to trans-
port the masterpieces of the Louvre to
safe places in the country —they dis-
covered two years later that one out of
every four crates labelled “Paintings—
fragile,” which he trucked out of Paris,
was full of firearms destined for the
Resistance movement, which was also
the recipient of the pictures. He was
imprisoned, but escaped; a restored
Government, grateful on two counts,
commissioned him to take peace-time ex-
hibitions around Europe.
Harold Sprent Nicholas, formerly
Chief Judge in Equity in N. S.
Wales, passed on at 76, was a
Tasmanian who graduated M.A. at
Corpus Christi College, Oxford, and
settled down to a solid Bar practice in
Sydney. He left his mark on history
as the Royal Commissioner whose find-
ings are most referred to by students of
the New States Movement and by his
findings as a commissioner in fixing the
salaries of Federal members during the
present reign of the Menzies Govern-
ment. He was celebrated among his
friends as the wearer of the most dilapi-
dated cadi owned by a member of the
Australian Bench and Bar, which he
stuck to more as a tangible advertise-
ment of his independence of spirit than
because he liked it. Under that hat he
kept a sound knowledge of Constitutional
Law (some of it crystallised in a useful
handbook a year or so ago) and a large
store of commonsense. He was a
member of the N.S.W. Legislative
Council for a few years in the ’thirties.
Planning sits lightly on the head of
Brigadier Tom Warren White, of Bris-
bane. This is fortunate, for he’s just
landed a beaut in the planning line
Marshal of the Royal Tour in Queens-
land, in which capacity he’ll visit every
centre the Royal couple are to visit,
checking on arrangements and thrashing
out details of reception-sites and trans-
port. White’s planning began when, in
1924, he was commissioned lieutenant in
the Staff Corps. With the British War
Office when Adolf put his plans into
operation, White shifted to North Africa,
staff-officer with the Ninth Division.
Before he left those sandy parts for New
Guinea, he had command of a battalion.
MacArthur got hold of him, and gave
him the responsibility, shared with an
American brigadier, of planning several
operations in which Diggers took part.
Early post-war found White in Berlin,
still planning—head of an Australian
military-diplomatic mission and organis-
ing the initial arrangements for migrat-
ing Europeans to Australia. A little over
50.
A cheerful cove, built long and solid,
historical researcher Karl von Stieglitz
dropped into The Bulletin and was
promptly researched upon by Hawley.
A man who knows as much about Tas-
mania as anyone (with just under a score
of published historical works to prove
it), von Stieglitz has been mulling about
the Mitchell Library for material for a
book to celebrate the Speck’s sesqui-
centenary. Officially Government His-
HISTORY
torian of Tasmania, the big fellow is
mixed up in pretty well every cultural
organisation in the north of the island,
from presidency of the Northern Royal
Society to broadcasting for the A.B.C.
He was born on the property where he
now lives —Andora, Evandale, near Laun-
ceston —runs sheep there, and once, long
ago, submitted to The Bulletin a pas-
sionate love-poem. It drew the comment:
“Phew! ” But he’s reached the Red Page
since then. Research is his recreation.
R. B. Hipsley, head of the Sydney
motor-engineering firm of the oa m e, ta es
the presidency of the Metal Tra
Employers’ Association. Well s^ hoo t( f. ( J
in the industry, he follows, by thi
appointment, in the presidential f°o *
steps of his father, a pioneer of the
country’s industrial development who
held office in 1919-21.
ALFRED ARMSTRONG,
with the Commonwealth Bank 37 years
first general-manager of the Industrial
Finance Department, now first g.-m. of
the newly-segregated Commonwealth
Trading Bank.
“M.G.”: Cabled the other day that now
Everest has been scaled there’s nothing
left worth exploring. The C.5.1.R.0.
thinks differently. At the end of the
year senior scouts and scientists will em-
bark on a 12-day camp in one of the
wildest, wettest and most inaccessible
areas in the world —the 20-mile zone
around Port Davey, on the savage un-
inhabited s.-w. coast of Tasmania, where
few whitemen have ever been. It is
unapproachable from land, and the rocky
coast, where rollers break continuously,
discourages landing. In 1910 an English
expedition stayed there for a month to
observe a solar eclipse. They couldn’t
have gone to a worse place—they didn’t
see the sun once. Noel Needham, Vic-
torian commissioner for senior scouts,
will lead the expedition. C. S. Christian,
of the survey section of C.5.1.R.0., will
head the scientists, who will comprise
gemorphologists, pedologists, geologists,
botanists and entomologists, with sur-
veyors to fill in the dotted lines on the
Admiralty charts which have hitherto
stood for the coastline. The team will
number over 200. Deputy-leader will be
Colonel A. G. Oldham, now in England
with Coronation Scouts.
Into the Silence:
In Onslow (W.A.), at 93, Andrew Taylor, a
pioneer of the original town, which was built
10 miles from the site on which the present
town was founded in 1881. He was one of
the first Cobb and Co. coachdrivers on the
Murchison, and drove some of the first bullock-
teams in the' district.
In Auckland (N.Z.), on his way back to
Australia after a world trip, W. G. Crossle,
founder and chairman of directors of the
W. G. Crossle engineering firm. Born at Nurie,
County Down, Ireland, 70 years ago, Crossle
came to Australia just before the turn of the
century, went on file land for a while and was
then associated successively with Siemens, Fivey
and Stewart, A.G.E. and Kelly and Lewis until
he branched out for himself in 1924. He served
with the Royal Navy 1914-19.
At Kurd Kurri (N.S.W.), at 91, Benjamin
Thomas Hector, first president of the Tarro
Shire Council.
In Melbourne, at 60, Patrick Francis Cody,
prominent businessman and sportsman, member
of the V.R.C., V.A.T.C. and M.R.C. He was
chairman of directors of Great Boulder Pro-
prietary, Loloma and Emperor Mines and
owned a number of city and suburban hotels.
An old business he conducted was the Austral
Wine and Spirit Agency, founded by his father.
At 52, at Horsham (Vic.), Thomas Henry
Bone, Victorian artist well known for his water-
color paintings of architectural subjects. Born
in Bendigo, he won a scholarship, joined the
Victorian Education Department as an art-
master, became senior art-master in Adelaide
and gave that up to become a full-time artist.
He was returning to S. Australia after holding
an exhibition at the Athenaeum Gallery, Mel-
bourne.


TEST-MATCH PARTY
IfcC WPfcf , PIP HEAR, IAJHO WDN THE Toss'?


ABORIGINALITIES
“Sebak”: At our local gymkhana every-
thing was set for a display by a visitor’s
champion sheepdog when it was found
that there were no sheep on the ground ;
the truckdriver had not got past the publi-
can’s booth. There wasn’t time to send
anybody else for the three jumbucks re-
quired ; it looked as though a hitherto
well-organised gymkhana would have to
close on a flat note. Then a veteran
spoke up: “I was at a show in Berry,
South Coast, N.S.W., a few years ago,
and something like this happened, but
somebody got three ducks and the dog
did his tricks on them.” The dog’s owner
made a snap decision. “If you can get
three ducks—not Muscovies, they can
fly like swans—l’ll give it a go.” Three
Indian Runners were borrowed from a
local poultryfarmer and the show went
on. An elderly man near me watched
the dog closely right up till the ducks
were penned in a 40gal. drum laid on
its side, then he turned and grinned:
“Nearly as good as Daley’s dorg Wattle,
ain’t he?” It was over 20 years since
Td read the Bulletin Reciter , but 1 re-
membered bits of Goodge’s poem: Daley
backed his dog to yard a blowfly into
a bottle, and when the bets were laid,
yelled: “ ‘Get round ’em, Wattle.’ And in
less than fifteen seconds, spare me days
it ain’t a lie, he’d landed that there inseck
in the bottle,”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Six years ago when
Sergeant Anderson, who is now in charge
of the Norseman (W.A.) police-station,
was looking for a native murderer be-
tween the Warburton Ranges and the
S.A. border, he Found an auriferous out-
crop about half a mile long. A hastily-
grabbed sample later assayed 3dwt. Last
year he went back to have a good look
at it and found it wasn’t worth work-
ing. But it’s out near what used to
be called Lasseter’s country—at least it’s
"The old woman's no cook."
in that general direction—so it’s bound
to touch off a lot of speculations about
Lasseter’s Reef. There’s not a chance
in a thousand that that reef ever existed,
and it’s doubtful if Lasseter was in the
area at the time he said he found it in
1893 ; but he convinced a lot of people
that it was there and he may, finally,
have convinced himself. Lasseter said he
came from Queensland to Alice Springs
at the time of the “ruby rush” in the
early ’nineties. The rubies were garnets,
“How much for this damaged one ?”
so he pushed on to W.A., head-
ing for the mouth of the Ash-
burton River, about 1300 miles away.
On the way he struck the Petermann
Range, over 100 miles south of his
course. And, allowing for the fact that
he might have wandered that far, on the
course he took to reach the Petermanns
he must have struck Lake Amadeus, an
impassable stretch of country that has
bluffed some of the best explorers who’ve
been through there. Yet he didn’t men-
tion it. He didn’t mention Ayer’s Rock
or Mt. Olga either, and they’re the sort
of landmarks a bushman would re-
member. Lasseter didn’t convince Dr,
Ward, Government geologist of S.A.,
when he interviewed him in 1929, and
W.A. Government geologist H. A.-Ellis
didn’t believe him either. Neither did
any old prospector with whom I’ve dis-
cussed it, but they all added a rider.
They wouldn’t say there wasn’t gold
there, only that Lasseter never found it.
* * * *
“Kelms”: A farmer ploughing about a
mile and a half from the shore near
Busselton (W.A.) turned up a lot of
fossilised whalebones. They’d been
there a long time, even geologically
speaking, so it’s a pretty sure bet they
were carted there by the original owners.
From what we know of the Westralian
coast that’s feasible. The sea is receding
at a measurable rate, and it’s quite on
the cards that the farmer’s paddock was
once a bay or inlet, and that the whales
were trapped in it at low tide.
« * * *
“Salmon Gums”: A Yank has written
to the W.A. Tourist Bureau asking for
pictures of the “famous” prison-trees.
He probably means the baobab-trees up
north to which native criminals were
sometimes chained. Up north the baobab
is known as the bottle-tree or the gouty-
stem, and its appearance is so repulsive
that Grey, who was the first white man
to see them in Australia, decided at once
that they had some leprous disease. It’s
not a high tree, and its immense trunk,
out of all proportion and covered with
a dirty pink bark, looks like the limb of
an elephantiasis victim. Its wood is soft
and spongy and you can wring water
out of it like a dishcloth, which is a
redeeming feature in a dry land. In
some ways it has scientists tricked —they
can’t agree on its age, or on any method
of determining it.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Though nobody was
certain who actually owned him, old
Jim was the boss-dog on the station. In
working the sheep, whether out on the
run or in the feverish excitement of the
yards, Jim made up for what he lost in
speed to younger dogs by his experience
and knowledge of sheep—and the last
boiled down to an almost uncanny anti-
cipation of jumbuck moves or man’s
wishes. Dog strength on that station
varied from eight to 12, and Jim re-
mained boss —until Little Curl brought
home Whippy, a heeler-kelpie cross full
of youth, ambition and courage. A week
after his advent Whippy took to old
Jim over Sally, a red bitch, and Jim was
toppled from his eminence. He withdrew
arid took to living alone, what time
Whippy led the mob. There was an old
thoroughbred entire on that station, blind
in the off eye, suffering from greasy
heels, mostly docile but given to sudden
rages —especially if startled. One day
the stallion was munching at his feed-box
in the open yard. Whippy and the other
dogs lay round the horse-yards, waiting
for something to happen. Jim happened.
He leered round a post at Whippy.
Whippy arose, his hackles up, and made
for Jim on stiff legs. Jim backed under
the rail, still leering, retreated along the
stallion’s blind side, paused by the greasy
and irritating rear heels. Then he said
something scandalous, to Whippy, who
rushed, just in time to collide with the
flying heels. Don’t ask me if Jim worked
it out —all I know is that a minute later
Curl was shovelling earth over Whippy
and Jim was boss again.
* * * *
“M.W.”: Antarctic-beeches grow at
Springbrook, at the eastern bastion of
the Macpherson Range. The suckers
which the original tree threw out when
it was dying—the estimated life of these
trees is 500 years—grew into trees which
on completion of their life-cycle also de-
veloped suckers, but only on the outside
edge, i.e., the side away from the original
tree. Thus a ring of trees formed which
countless centuries expanded to
circles, varying from 20 to 40 X a F dS n [ n
diameter, with the existing isolated beech-
trees on its outskirts. An u tar^ tic '
beeches only, survive on the highest,
coldest and wettest summit and are t e
direct descendants of the Glacial Age.
* * * *
“Pip Tok”: Don’t like to contradict
a lady, but the bundles of asparagus
exhibited in Ethel Anderson s Harle-
quinade” story (B. 13/5/’53) were not the
first to be grown south of the Equator.
In his diary for August, 1807, Hobart
Town’s Rev. Bobby Knopwood wrote.
“Cut some asparagus, the first cut in the
colony, and I believe the only bed in the
settlement.” Knopwood was a keen
backyard farmer. He reared chickens
and grew peas and other vegetables at
Sorrento, and carried on the good work
by the Derwent.
# # * *
“Loulalo”: Mention of the continual
straying of horses and cattle from the
early settlements in the Snowy River
country (B. 20/ 5/’53) had an echo in a
Gippsland Regional News broadcast a
week or so ago. A gallant little band of
settlers had recently moved into the wild,
undeveloped area of Suggan Buggan,
overlooking the Snowy country and
adjacent to Wulgulmerang. In many ways
they are re-enacting the epics of 100
years ago, for so far they are housed in
tents and their roads are still to come.
They brought with them one draught-
horse, an indispensable animal, for there
are many places where no tractor could
go. Soon after arrival, however, he heard
the call of his wild brethren, joined up
with a mob of brumbies and went bush.
Possibly those brumbies are descendants
of some of the straying horses of the
earlier pioneers. Cattle still travel down
from Delegate (N.S.W.) to the Bairns-
dale (Vic.) markets by the old stock-
route, and, when the last mob came
through from Bonang, one of the drovers
promised to return and look for the
settlement’s strayed horse.
* * * *
“E.”: Every morning for a week I’d
spotted Charlie laboring up the long spur
a mile from his house. He’d turn along
the top of the range and an hour later
reappear carrying a bundle of traps or
a double-handful of rabbits. Then I ran
into him. “Why on earth don’t you ride
round your trap-line?” I inquired as he
puffed mightily upward. “You’ve got
two good nags in your home-paddock
eating their heads off.” “Y-yair,” he
panted. “I did ride the black the first
couple o’ mornings, but it’s got lazy—
hates hills. Had
t’ belt him every
coupla yards, an’
even then he kept
stopping and edg-
ing downhill, an’
makin’ a hell of
a fuss. It’s easier
to walk than
bother with the
blanker.” “Well,
what about the
chestnut?” I went
on. “She’s a good
pony.” “Too
right she is,” he
agreed eagerly. “All hearty that thing.
Go till she dropped.” “Well, ride her.”
“What!” he snorted. “Have a heart!
Think I’m gonna ride the willing little
chestnut up this hill while that big, fat,
loafing black just stands down there doin’
nothin’?”
* * ♦
“Jamboon”; Nearly all members of the
catfish tribe have spines which can inflict
a painful wound (B. 3/6/’53). The irri-
tant is not a venom like that injected by
snakes; it is the body-mucus of the
fish, some of which enters the wound.
Best treatment I know is to pour some
boiling water into a bottle, pour it out
again and at once stick the mouth of the
bottle over the spot where the spine
entered. The partial vacuum inside the
bottle will draw out ’the mucus with
the blood which the suction causes to
flow. Don’t suck it with your mouth, as
the mucus burns like acid and leaves
bad mouth-ulcers. Far worse than any
catfish is the little bullrout, found in
northern creeks. Was once at a picnic
where a kiddie paddling in a creek trod
on one and the pain nearly drove the
youngster mad. I don’t agree, however,
about all catfish being not worth eating.
The one found in estuary waters in W.A.,
and known locally as the cobbler, is as
good as any flathead.
THE DEAD SWAGMAN
We move above the moving tree
' In light upon the figured leaf . . .
—T. S. Eliot.
His rusted billy left beside the tree;
Beneath a root, most carefully tucked away,
His steel-rimmed spectacles still within their case
Of mildewed purple velvet; there he lies
In the sunny afternoon, and takes his ease,
Curled like a possum within the hollow trunk.
He came one winter evening when the tree
Hunched its broad back against the rain, and
made
His camp, and slept, and did not wake again.
Now white-ants make a home within his skull;
His old friend Fire has swept across the hill
And blackened the old tree and the old man,
And buried him half in ashes, where he lay.
A lonely death? Well, if you like. The tree
Led its own alien life beneath the sun.
Yet both belonged to the Bush, and now are
one;
The roots and bones lie white among the soil,
And he ascends to summer in the leaves.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


“B. A. Ker”: He strode across the
rocks to the rugged formation known as
Black Head, Gerroa (N.S.W.). There
was purpose in his stride, and he aimed
at a particular ledge as though it was a
lodestone pulling him. He baited his
hook in the manner of a man loading a
pistol for a duel, and wheeled to make
the cast like a boxer swinging around
from his comer to meet the most formid-
able opponent of his career. Hours
later he was still there, the catch,
apparently, nil. Then suddenly he
struck! The stout rod bent like a bow,
the line taut enough to twang. He began
to reel in, his weight leaning back against
the pull. It looked like a good-’un; I
ran across the rocks to see the end of
the battle. But he was no longer wind-
ing, though the tension was still on the
line. “Bad luck,” I commiserated.
“There’s a ledge just out there and groper
always dive under it if they can.”
“You’re not telling me anything,”
grunted the fisherman. “A couple of
days ago I hooked this bloke —or his twin
brother —and he got under that ledge;
I held him for a while, but he broke
me off at the finish. I came prepared
today. He won’t break this one.” I
looked at the mooring-cable he was
using, and agreed. “But you haven’t
got much chance of dragging him out,”
1 commented. “I know,” came the
grim reply. “But one of us will have to
break first —and it hurts him more than
it does me.” At dusk he was still there,
a shadowy figure against a splashing,
frigid sea. I’ve never been to Black
Head since, but if on a certain ledge
there is a rock that bears a remarkable
likeness to a man. I’m the only bloke
who knows the legend about it.
♦T* * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: We were stacking
bagged chaff in a big shed on the Belu-
bula, near Canowindra (N.S.W.), Mat
and I hooking the bags on a rope sling
and Jim Kain taking them up top. The
boss put his head in the shed and said,
“Hey, call Kain. One of his kids is
here with a message from his missus.”
Jim, coming to the edge of the stack to
listen, overbalanced as Mat called up to
him, and came down with several bags
of chaff, most of which (Jim included)
fell on Mat. Mat picked himself up and
looked coldly at the shocked Jim.
“Gripes,” he said, “has the missus got you
under the whip t’ make y’ hurry like that
when she... wants y’?”
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Bass”: There’s talk in Perth of an
expedition to leave soon for the country
east of the Warburton Ranges to look
for an iron box reported to have been
found there by natives years ago. It
seems pretty definite that a box, or some-
thing that the natives would describe as
one, lies somewhere in that country, and
if it could be found it might clear up the
mystery of some lost explorer or sandal-
wood puller. Men have gone into that
country and vanished, and others have
come out without their luggage ; but this
expedition’s leaders seem to be making
two assumptions that are almost certain
to be wrong. One is that the box
belonged to Leichhardt; but there’s
nothing to suggest that he got anywhere
near that locality, except the fact that
he was such a poor bushman that he
could have turned up anywhere in Aus-
tralia. However, no Leichhardt clues
are within 1000 miles of the War-
burtons, and there’s a desert or two be-
tween them. The other assumption is
that if the box is Leichhardt’s it may
contain jewellery. If it does, it’s not
Leichhardt’s. He was broke to the world
when he left on his last trip.
* * * *
“Fairf”: It all started when my
spouse declared that slugs were getting
into the room which serves as furniture
storeroom, my den and general dump. I
pointed out that it was impossible for
“My friends .... ”
slugs to get into the room. “Well, what
caused that?” came the spirited question.
“That” was a wavering silver trail on
the rug. Stumped, I sprayed everything
with d.d.t. and called the incident closed.
The slug didn’t. Neither did the wife.
Confronted with more tracks, I suddenly
realised the means of entry ; a sheet of
three-ply leaning against the wall. I had
brought it in when rain was driving
across the veranda and dampening it.
Apparently there had been slug’s eggs on
the sheet. Unable to find the daytime
hideout of the hatched pests, I decided
that they would die of starvation, any-
way. Tbey didn’t. I banked on slug
senility setting in. Apparently slugs live
to a comparatively ripe age. Finally I
got the aforementioned slug-destroyer.
The first night one small slug and a
spider paid the price; the following
night accounted for five more small slugs.
Since then—none. Now I’m pondering.
Those sluglets must have been about
three months old. At that reckoning,
some of the whoppers that I’ve copped
in the garden must have been nearly old
enough to vote.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Kelms”: Fires hard to put out (B.
20/5/’53)? Don’t claim it as a record,
but about the time War II broke out a
fire within two miles of Perth Town Hall
had been burning for two years. The
swampy foreshore of the Swan between
the Causeway and Barrack-street was be-
ing filled-in with rubbish, the job taking
“ Who's out of step ?”
several years. A lot of that rubbish
was combustible material like paper and
sawdust, and some of it caught fire, pos-
sibly by spontaneous combustion. It
was several feet deep in places, and may
have been burning for months before it
was noticed, and by then it covered a
few acres. Wisps of smoke emerged from
cracks in the surface and the ground was
noticeably warm, but as winter was
approaching it was left to the rain to put
it out. It didn’t, and neither did flood-
ing during the following summer. It
survived a second winter before it burnt
itself out,
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: The old gibe that
W.A. is a land of sin, sand and sorrow
is losing a third of its sting. Though
we have millions of acres of sand, before
long we’ll be wishing we had more. The
coastal plain, running inland to the Dar-
ling Ranges and extending about 150
miles north and south of Perth, is prac-
tically all sand of a sort. The early
settlers proved to their own satisfaction
that it wouldn’t grow wheat or pastures,
but some of them, beginning with Dom
Salvado and his Benedictine monks,
showed that it would grow fruit-trees and
vines. Now agriculturists, reasoning that
it must have something to make it carry
forests of banksia and jarrah, have proved
the old colonists wrong about wheat and
grasses. They’ve shown that sand only
needs a few trace-elements like zinc,
copper and molybdenum to turn it into
good mixed-farming land, and they’re
pointing to a few million acres that won’t
take a great deal of clearing. Maybe
W.A. won’t ever run short of sand, but
by the time farmers have taken what
they want it may be necessary to reserve
some for secondary industries. Some of
the sand around Perth is almost pure
silica, and is as good as any in the world
for glass-making ; and other types come
in such variety that foundries can get
the right type for any class of work.
Fuller’s earth is just a type of sand, and
we’ve got a good class of that at
Marchagee. And sand is the best founda-
tion for buildings and an important
building material. Try, for instance, to
estimate the value of a few good Wes-
tralian sandhills in the heart of, say,
Melbourne.
“Bert the Carpenter”: I was once
shown photographs, taken in Eng-
land by flashlight, which showed rats
trying to release a mate from an old-
fashioned trap which caught ’em alive
by means of & door dropping at Lhe
entrance to a cage. More snaps
showed a rat lying on its back, with an
egg held on its stomach by its legs, while
another rat towed it away by the tail.
Until a few weeks ago I regarded them
as genuine. Then I worked on altera-
tions to a rat-infested store. The owner
had traps set everywhere, the unbaited
ones being placed on* rat-runways along
tiebeams and wallplates. A sudden snap,
followed by a squeaking, made me look
up to see a full-grown rat caught by
the forelegs, with its head just clear of
the trap-jaws. Other rats appeared at
once, heading for the captive. Remem-
bering the old photographs, I called my
workmates to watch an attempted rescue.
The trapped rat made a horrible squeal-
ing when the others appeared—and with
good reason. They didn’t try to release
it. Instead, they flung themselves on it,
bit holes in its chest and proceeded to
eat its heart and liver. I never thought
I’d be sorry for a rat, but I was when I
saw the sickening sight of a helpless one
being eaten alive by cannibals of its own
species. They weren’t driven to it by
hunger, as they were all fat. It made
me suspect the genuineness of the egg-
stealing photographs as well, and a mate
who keeps fowls confirmed it. “They
don’t try to carry away eggs,” he said
emphatically. “They knock a hole in
them as they lie in the nest and lap up
the contents. I’ve seen the brutes do it.”
• * * *
“The Boorie”; Darkie, old in years
and Territory residence, took a bad
tumble, broke his thigh, and pneumonia
supervened. His condition was such that
the padre was called for appropriate
ministration. After a brief talk he sug-
gested a prayer. Darkie looked blank.
“I understand, Mr. Saltbeef,” said the
padre gently. “Just you repeat after me.”
And he began to recite the Lord’s Prayer.
The stricken man glared around indig-
nantly, and let go a roar for assistance.
“Git ’im outa ’ere! Git ’im away! ’Ere
I am dyin’ and the blankard’s tryin’ to
teach me po’try!”
V * ♦ ♦ »
“Horseless Horseman”: Lack of trace-
elements in the soil (B. 20/5/,’53) causes
kangaroos to develop “coasty” disease.
Walking rugged Wilson’s Promontory’s
only arterial —the bridle-track from the
lighthouse to Tidal River —the ’roos were
so bad with the complaint they took
little notice of me. On the Scottish-
moorlike uplands above Oberon Bay one
old-man Too stood in my path almost
too weak and blinded to get out of the
way. In better seasons rains enable the
marsupials to migrate to other pastures,
and the change of diet helps check the
ailment. Have also experienced the same
thing when Too-shooting in the Cape
York Peninsula, especially on sand-
dune-fringed shores that carried few, if
any, minerals. There the Cape York
whiptails, fast To os that can cover 22ft.
a hop, were so rotten in the pelts it wasn’t
possible to skin them, and the tail sinews
were equally bad.
* * ♦ *
“Tinder Box”: Recent Bulletin
references to the Lady Nelson recall
that the historic little craft with the slid-
ing keels is commemorated by several
Australian placenames. On her first trip
through Bass Strait in 1800 her com-
mander named Cape Nelson (near Vic-
toria’s Portland Bay) in her honor. A
lighthouse was erected here a little over
80 years later. In Tasmania, when
Governor Lachlan Macquarie was paying
a visit of inspection in 1811, he named a
hill outside Hobart Mount Nelson, in
memory of the craft that had carried
him and Mrs. Macquarie safely across
the Strait. This became a signal-station,
on Macquarie’s instructions, a flagstaff
being erected and guardhouse established
there. Grant also named Lady Nelson’s
Port; and her second commander, Lieut.
Murray, put a Lady Nelson’s Reef on
the chart to mark the spot where the . ship
narrowly escaped being wrecked. Lady
Nelson’s Point was another placename
conferred by Murray. Possibly there
are other memorials to her as well, Tas-
mania is considering the erection of a
plaque to help keep alive the memory
of the ship that helped in the colonising
and development of both her southern
and northern posts on the Derwent and
Tamar. One would like to know what
became of the brass carriage-guns with
which she was fitted when she left Eng-
land ; on her last trip from Melville
Island to Timor Laut, where she was
seized by pirates, she carried a boat-
gun, and no doubt this is knocking about
somewhere in the northern islands. In
pictures of her there is no representation
of a figurehead. Does anyone know
whether she carried one?
THE UNTIDY BUSH
I love the wild untidy bush,
The careless way it pokes about,
The tousled tangled unkempt crush
Of earth and timber in and out,
The grand confusion of it all
Where rugged giants push and press,
Each piled-up height and slope and fall
Of reckless confused carelessness;
This arrogance where leafage lies,
This grand disorder to the eye,
This ruthless picture ’neath the skies
Where staid design must ever die;
The straggling lines of broken blue,
The random heaps of brown and gold,
The broken paths of shade and hue
Where jumbled tumbled greens unfold.
I love fair Nature’s ragged dress,
Her lovely flowered tattered gown,
Her glorious mansion in a mess —
And with her stockings halfway down.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.
IN RURAL ARMS
The clatter of the dairy in the bay light of dawn,
The wheat a flame rewaking like your arm ;
The sense of dew and dust on the husks of corn,
And wings of the fawn hills folding on the farm.
Lips in the twilight, titian hair and straw,
Eyes opening in wells where blue mists move;
Vapors slowly rising from the barn floor,
And vte two together in the rural arms of Love.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


e^Uanol!
The new Small's Milk
Chocolate has an
extra creaminess, ex-
tra smoothness, extra
iusciousness. This dif-
ferent chocolate is a
real palate pleaser.
'LT
m
Super!
<7.
Dad always buys us some
Small's Milk Chocolate
for the weekend, or when
we go to the pictures. I
like mine best with crisp
toasted nuts.
LiJchoco^
Change to Small's the family
chocolate with a real taste
difference.
'mHHt
SM-S
Small's make Nut Milk, Plain Milk
ringer Milk Chocolate
and
Calorific
Value
m
i
i
m
mm
PUU/ERISEO FUEL FIRING-TYPE T MILLS
■
I
&H
OIL AND
GAS BURNER
The calorific value of a fuel is realised to the
maximum degree as useful energy, only
through efficient combustion; and efficient
combustion must he sought in many different
ways with different fuels. No one has been
more closely concerned with the problem
than Babcock & Wilcox, the world’s leading
makers of steam-raising plant, who have, over
a period of 75 years, developed methods and
equipment for the most efficient burning of
the widest diversity of fuels both solid and
liquid, from coal and oil to bagasse and black
liquor.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE AND WORKS: REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Office and Agencies in all Slates
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Time to Expand Credit
Cement-production, figures in
Australia are improving
markedly, and, when new plant
in the eastern States and South
Australia gets into full and
efficient production, there should
be very little shortage. As it is,
the outturn of 136,000 tons in
Australia during April was a
record, and it compared with
127,000 tons in November, 1952,
which was the highest monthly
output for that year. In 1953
output has been building up
steadily since the Christmas
holidays.
The monthly average of
cement-production in 1938-39
was 72,300 tons. If the record
output of April this year can be
improved on a little we shall
soon be making twice the pre-
war outturn of Portland cement,
and nearly 50 p.c. more than we
were at the time credit-restric-
tions were reimposed towards
the end of 1951.
Until industrial trouble struck
the steel industry a few weeks
ago output at the Newcastle and
Port Kembla works was also a
record. The figures for March
were an all-time high, both for
iron and steel —pig-iron output
of 164,900 tons compared with
an average monthly output of
92,100 tons in 1938-39 and
109,400 tons in 1950-51. Steel
figures were similar.
Though pig-iron is now avail-
able for export, being in excess
of local demand, there is still no
surplus of steel. And, overall,
there is no excess of cement yet
in the Commonwealth, even
though one State may find it
economic to ship cement to
another State. So far as these
basic items are concerned, it is
clear that, at the moment, any
increased demand that might be
created by easier credit condi-
tions could ’ not be met by
supplies coming forward. And
it is upon steel and cement that
most public works are based.
There is a surplus of certain
types of coal, mostly of the open-
cut kind. But there is still a
shortage of good gas coal,
though supplies of this have
been better recently, so much so
that continuity has enabled the
Australian Gas Light Co. to
reduce its price to the public
slightly.
In this reduction in gasmaking
costs, and correspondingly in the
price to the public, there is a clue
to the whole aim behind the
present national economic
policy. By concentrating activity
upon essentials—-that is, diverting
manpower to the essential indus-
tries, such as coalmining, steel-
manufacturing, transport, etc. —
we have increased output,
accelerated supplies, cut down
waiting-time and reduced costs.
It is upon further increases in
output, further avoidance in
delivery delays and further
reduction in costs that the next
major move in national financial
policy depends.
With stable or reduced costs,
and with reserve of manpower
and materials readily available,
it will be sound policy to expand
credit to a greater extent than at
present, though in such circum-
stances investment funds have a
tendency to become available of
their own accord.
It may be that with the 40-
hour week in operation Australia
will never have reserves of man-
power sufficient to undertake the
public works in which the
country is so greatly in need, and
that costs will never stabilise suf-
ficiently to warrant credit-
expansion without inflation.
Those problems will have to be
considered on a national, not on
a party, basis.
But on any analysis of the
position it becomes plain that,
once a satisfactory and smooth
rate of production is achieved,
there will be no need to maintain
financial inhibitions. With a fair
rate of productivity forthcoming
from each industry in proportion
to the manpower employed it
will be sound financial policy to
extend credit for the building of
essential capital works that will
pay for themselves through the
revenue they derive, or for which
the public is prepared to pay
ultimately in taxation.
Given enough steel, cement,
bricks, chemicals, etc., at a
stable or reduced price and a
desire on the part of trade-
unionists to do a fair day’s work
for a fair day’s pay, there is
almost endless work waiting to
be carried out in Australia.
Thrifty, industrious people have
few economic problems which
cannot be readily solved.
Economic restriction and regu-
lation are only needed, let us
reiterate, so long as production
is inadequate and costly.
Papuan Oil Search
“Lemon”: At the end of May
the Australasian Petroleum and
Island Exploration cos. struck
gas at 13,743 ft. in their test-well
at Omati. The Press release
announcing this most important
event showed professional
restraint:
The significance of the occurrence
will not be known until the formation
has been cored to determine its
"Number thirteen doesn't take much interest in his garden."
nature, the hole deepened, a 4Tinch
steel liner inserted and the hole tested.
To do this it will, of course,
be necessary to free the drill-
pipe, which was “frozen” by the
cavings which accompanied the
evolution of gas and the con-
comitant “cutting” of the dril-
ling-mud. Any “fishing” opera-
tion, at a depth of over 1% miles,
requires all the skill and equip-
ment available even to the
major oil-groups behind A.P.C.
and 1.E.C., and the cos. have
wisely suspended operations
pending the air-freighting of
special equipment from over-
seas.
It must not be assumed that
the chances of failure in the
hazardous operation to be
undertaken are overwhelming.
Although the Omati well already
beats the former Southern
Hemisphere record for depth by
530 ft., the world’s deepest well
—drilled in Wyoming by
Superior Oil —attained 20,521 ft.,
and 7in. casing was set at
19,765 ft., which was yet another
world record. The oil cos. now
drilling in Papua are not, there-
fore, attempting the unprece-
dented or the impossible, and
the good wishes of all Aus-
tralians should be with them in
their vigorous efforts to find
indigenous commercial oil.
Tooth, 70s. 6d.
Tooth shares in Sydney at
70s. 6d, give a yield of 4.3
p.c. from a 15 p.c. div.
Though last year’s admitted
profits little more than
covered the distribution, there
is no doubt about the great
undisclosed asset-backing be-
hind the shares. There has
been no increase in Tooth’s
capital since 1936 (then it was
only one for 10, at par); the
last issue of real consequence
was in 1929, when Resch’s
brewery was taken over for
£1,250,000, and Tooth’s share-
holders treated to a one-for-
eight bonus issue. The small
growth in capital during the
past 24 years illustrates how
the great expansion in the
business has been financed
out of ploughed-back profits.
Moina
The 1,000,000 share-issue-
made by Moina Tungsten-Tin
Mining Co. (Tas.) was fully
applied for. They are ss.'
shares, the contribs. paid to
Is.; no further calls are in
prospect until August. A
mine-manager takes over in
July, by which time the
hydroelectric power - line
should be completed. Share-
holders will be told more
about the co.’s affairs in
Hobart today (24th). It has
a promising show still in the
developmental stage, with ore
(on the experience of a
previous owner) similar in
character to that of Aber-
foyle. Because of the lower
price of metals Moina Is.-
paids have been selling at
around lOd,


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
m 2
STEP INTO A.N.Z BANK -
c> -
-W
The busy man steps confidently into A.N.Z. Bank.
Time is important to him and he knows
that A.N.Z. Bank is organised to give
efficient service quickly.
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
Bank of Australasia The Union Bank of Australia Ltd.
Established 1835 Established 1837
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in' Fiji and in London
AGENTS IN ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD
lANZ. 17. 31461
takes good
.A-C
care °f U
to O
ll
5 Contine nts
Fly in comfort by 8.0.A.C.
to any of 51 countries. Fly
smoothly, swiftly at fine
weather heights in fully-
p. toh • ' pressurized, 4-engined
airliners. Enjoy excellent meals and complimentary
meal-time drinks, all part of 8.0.A.C. ’s ever-attentive
cabin service. Fly on one ticket all the way. No
extra air fare if you break your journey along the
route. No tips, no extras. 34 years flying experience.
8.0.A.C. leads with the Comet.
World's first Jetliner now operating to 15 countries.
Consult your Travel Agent for free advice.
"fa Book from Australia to Indonesia • Malaya
Hong Kong • Japan • Ceylon • India
Pakistan • Middle East • Africa • Europe
Great Britain • U.S.A. • Canada
Central and South America • Bermuda
FI fprffkt
Reservations and Information from all Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., (8.0.A.C. General Agents in
Australia).
r
fd
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
A39/AU
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
The Sharemarket
Since last year’s investment
slump wiped out the gains of six
years, tight credit has been the
main handicap of the market,
except for a flutter in April and
May, when some Government
departments were pumping in
money to give a blood-trans-
fusion to gilt-edged stocks. This
artificial stimulus ceased about
the time the £2O million national-
development and conversion
loan was launched at the end of
May, with the rate £3 19s. p.c.,
and the market was soon show-
ing the effects of the change.
What with millions going into
the Joan, and credit short in all
directions, investors were hard
pushed for cash, and shares lost
momentum. This lull came just
about the time the generals in
Korea were preparing to hand
over to the diplomats, and just
after the year’s main crop of
N.Z. divs. and - profits.
N.Z. cos. fared better than
Australian in the past twelve-
month, with good effects on the
Maoriland section of the market,
and some useful capital gains
were picked up here and there.
Among leaders, Fletcher Hold-
ings, Farmers’ Trading, N.Z.
'Paper Mills, N.Z. Newspapers,
Northern Roller, Bycroft,
Donaghy’s Rope, McKenzie’s
Stores and Alex Harvey and
Sons all had a bumper year, all
but Donaghy’s netting record
profits. As if to atone for its
failure to get into the select
group, Donaghy’s decided to
make a capital handout of
£125,000, in the ratio of one
bonus share for every two held.
In earlier years this crop of
results would have been enough
to bring a boom in shares, but
phlegmatic or hard-up investors
reacted differently this year. The
rise in N.Z.’s official share-price
index from the February low
point of 950 (against a peak of
1247 two years earlier) was
roughly 10 p.c., to the end of
May, which, in the conditions,
was extremely small.
Shrewd investors, who could
afford to have a flutter, were bid-
ing their time, mindful of pros-
pects of new issues, probably at
attractive prices, later in the
year. Under Capital Issues
Control the flow of investment
will be directed into essential
channels, with better long-run
results for N.Z. and less risk for
those who put up the money.
Fletcher Holdings
With more ups than downs in
trade and industry in Maoriland
in the past twelvemonth (to
April 30), Maoriland’s leading
industrial combine, run by
Fletcher Holdings, Ltd., kept
turnover moving in the right
direction and reached a peak of
£l2 million, after a rise of a
shade over a million. A dozen
subsidiaries, most of them still
lusty, and half a dozen allied
cos. all had a finger in the pie.
Net profit for the group moved
up nicely by £43,245 to a record
of £211,428, and the holding
co.’s share of £130,000, along
with £16,149 from other
sources, after tax, left a com-
fortable margin over 8 p.c. div.
on ords., 6 p.c. on prefs. and 5
p.c. on B prefs.—total £128,970.
Said the directors; “It must be
of great significance to share-
holders that the careful, wide
spreading of our interests has
enabled our total turnover and
earnings to be increased, in
spite of the fact that some of
our departments have not pros-
pered as well as others.”
Having attained a capital of a
couple of million, without
jeopardising profits, the combine
now aims to build up strength
over the next few years before
making any further call for
funds.
One of the main setbacks
lately has been in house-build-
ing, where shortage of mortgage
finance and rising costs have
slowed things down. This would
worry Fletcher’s more if eco-
nomic influences were left to
run their course, but houses
rank high in priority, the more
so because there’s a general
election only about 15 months
off, and homes mean votes. To
help bridge the financial gap
the Government has ordered
more liberal overdrafts, up to
£3500 for a term of five years,
and has offered £lOOO in prizes
for the best design for a lower-
cost family home, and for ideas
which will cut construction costs.
Since the link-up with Yankee
interests in the Fletcher-
Merritt-Raymond partnership to
build the £2i million Auckland
Import Wharf, the co. has found
that there is good money to be
made in the heavy-construction
field. As costly modern plant
must be used continuously, the
partnership seized the chance
lately to sign up a contract with
the Australian Oil Refining
Pty., Ltd., for a tanker
berth for the oil-refinery at
Kurnell, the site for a £2O-
- plant, and it plans to drive
the first pile there in August.
The Murupara project is the
biggest job tackled yet by this
or any other contracting firm in
N.Z. To give the show a start
the N.Z. Government has put
up £300,000, Fletcher Holdings
£210,000 of the initial capital
of Tasman Pulp and Paper,
which has £l5-million develop-
ment to carry out in the next
few years, a sizeable part of the
total to be raised in sterling and
dollar loans. No public issue of
shares will be made until the
production stage is nearer, but
when the time is right there will
be room enough for investors on
both sides of the Tasman.
Newsprint and pulp markets
are more competitive than a
while ago, but the founders of
this new industry, ranked as a
probable rival to meat and
butter in a quarter of a century
or so, have their eye on long-
term prospects on this side of
the globe.
Thermal Steam
Atomic scientists don’t go
globe-trotting just to see thermal
wonders. So there was interest
behind the arrival of A. S. White
—head of the chemical-engineers’
division at Harwell (Eng.)—in
the centre of N.Z.’s geothermal
area at the end of March. This
was the spot where N.Z.
engineers had been battling for
a couple of years or more to
harness steam which gushes out
at numerous places in the pumice
country east of Lake Taupo.
Maorilanders, living in hopes
that here was a possible way out
of power troubles which had
been dogging them for years
past, had the surprise of a life-
time when Prime Minister
Holland let the cat out of the
bag and told them that the odds
were in favor of producing
“heavy water” for atomic uses.
This means the steam around
Wairakei could be used twice
over—for electric power and for
heavy water.
Everything is still in the
“proving” stage. A score of
bores drilled around Wairakei
are all more or less under
test, the majority of them
4in. diameter, which could
each yield up to 6000 kilowatts if
successfully harnessed. The total
would be equal to the output of
the largest hydroelectric power-
stations, and this would be only
the start. Hundreds of square
miles are thermally active, and
only 13 square miles are in the
zone for immediate drilling.
Scientists, who are non-
committal on these matters, have
been saying there might be a
dozen or more localities equally
rich in thermal steam. They
have a theory that there’s a deep
trough extending from the
neighborhood of Mt. Ngauruhoe,
N.Z.’s most active volcano,
through Taupo and Wairakei,
past Rotorua and on to the east
coast near White Island, in the
middle of the Bay of Plenty.
Steam has been found at depths
of from 600 ft. to 1000 ft., with
pressures of up to 1501 b. to the
square inch, and 300 deg. Fah.
temperature. But it might be
necessary to go down to 5000 ft.
to get a real “payload.”
N.Z. Newspapers
Newspapers in N.Z. continue
to enjoy a comfortable and
lucrative monopoly, which is
increasing in value as the years
go by. Most of the metropolitan
dailies, as well as some of the
best in provincial towns, are
under family ownership, and
there’s a natural and obvious
reluctance to convert them into
public cos. to give outsiders a
look-in. These proprietary con-
cerns don’t announce their
profits, and the only clue to
trends is that given by the few
cos., like N.Z. Newspapers, Ltd.,
which have their shares fairly
well distributed in the hands of
thrifty Maorilanders,
This year profit of N.Z. News-
papers jumped by £10,677 to a
peak of £75,072 (to March 31),
with more than a 50 p.c. margin
over 10 p.c. div.-needs of
£49,792. Part of the gain came
from growth in Auckland and
Christchurch, where the co. has
the evening field to itself, and
part from a steadier trend in
costs, which had been rising
steeply in earlier post-war years,
newsprint being one of the most
uncontrollable items.
Chairman William Good-
fellow forecasts that in little
more than a couple of years’
time New Zealand will have its
own newsprint supplies to draw
on, and is w'ell satisfied with the
drive behind the new enterprise.
There is no likelihood that over-
seas capitalists will challenge the
monopoly while newsprint
supplies depend on scarce
dollars, but the more distant out-
look is less certain.


How much time will your
Executor have for your affairs?
Few men can spare the time from their own affairs to attend properly
to the duties of an Executor and Trustee. The position demands
specialised knowledge and is no task for an amateur.
Why burden a friend with such grave and arduous responsibilities?
The Permanent Trustee Company offers you the assistance of a
group of experts to administer your estate. It is permanent, it
devotes all its efforts to the interests of its clients, and it gives a
service which no individual can offer.
Call and discuss your needs with one of our Executive Officers in
confidence and without obligation; or write for Free Booklet:
“trust estates and their management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way {Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E,
( Vice-Chairman ).
A. E. Bond. J. R, FavielU
F. B. Fleming. G. B. Kater.
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland.
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Stewarti
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
P.T.80.15
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Year Replacement,
ended Etc.,
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
8$ p.c.
1943 .. 1,041,601 994,500 1,669,439 5,049,140
1944 .. 873,969 994,500 1,548,908 5,443,655
8 p.c.
1945 .. 881,136 936,000 1,494,044 5,793,701
1946 .. 887,298 936,000 1,445,342 6,130,835
8$ p.c.
1947 .. 1,163,473 994,500 1,614,315 6,447,849
9 p.c.
1948 .. 1,241,504 1,053,000 1,802,819 6,823,115
From inner res. £123,806.. 1,926,625 6,823,115
10$ p.c.
1949 .. 1,206,762 1,228,500 1,904,887 9,121,946
9$ p.c.
1950 ~ 1,231,571 1,111,500 2,024,958 9,666,880
Share premiums, £285,989 2,310,947
9 p.c.
1951 .. 1,003,402 1,088,100 2,226,249 10,240,907
Share premiums, £273.000 2,499,249
1952 .. 1,154,444 1,158,300 2,495,393 10,983,539
Share premiums, £273,000 2,768,393
From inner res., £3,498,514 6,266,907
1953 .. 1,366,394 1,228,500 6,404,801 11,710,311
Second-biggest of Australia’s industrial
organisations, the C.S.R. continues to
expand steadily the volume and scope
of its activities, and its f.-p. £2O shares
have long been one of the leading in-
dustrial equities in the market. During
1952 the price fell from a peak of £56
10s. to a low of £42 7s. 6d. Last week
the figure stood at £44, giving a return
of 4.1 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is £45 16s. 4d.
The investor at £44 who looks for 5 p.c.
on his money counts on the div. rising
to 11 p.c., or other benefits. The fall
in price was due partly to the general
trend of equity prices and yields and
partly to the fact that the board decided
to finance current expansion on
debenture instead of share capital.
The co. enjoys a unique position. In
Australia it is engaged mainly in refining
and selling all but a small fraction
(handled by Millaquin) of the entire sugar
output under Government contract, in
milling on its own account —it owns
seven of the country’s 34 mills—in dis-
tilling industrial alcohol, and in produc-
tion of a wide and growing range of
building materials and industrial and
other chemicals. In Fiji it is both miller
and grower, and there is a refinery at
Auckland (N.Z.).
Chief factor responsible for the im-
provement of £211,950 in last term’s net
earnings was a bigger output of sugar,
which fetched higher prices in both the
Australian and export markets. The
£1,366,394 of profit was written after
allowing £666,462 (up £78,605) for de-
preciation, plus an extra £200,000 (same
as previous year) toward meeting today’s
increased cost of replacement, and an
unstated amount for taxation and other
contingencies. So liberal had been pro-
vision for contingencies in the past that
£3,498,514 previously held in “suspense
accounts” was transferred to reserves
last term. In addition to the £6,404,801
of ordinary reserves there was £11,710,311
earmarked for replacement and deprecia-
tion, equal to 45.1 p.c. of the book-value
of fixed assets, at March 31 last.
The £1,336,394 of profit claimed was
10 p.c. on average capital as against
8.9, 8.3, 10.5, 10.3 and 10.6 p.c. back
to 1948. The div. was kept at 9 p.c.—
it is worth a lot more to old shareholders
because of bonus share-issues in the past
—and, subject to how the chemicals and
building-materials divisions pan out,
prospects of a lift in rate later on look
encouraging at the moment.
The Sugar Producers’ Association give
the following division of Australian pro-
duction between home-consumption and
export sales;
t Production Raw Sugar
Home Export
Market, Market, Total,
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1950 .. ~ 518,000 402,000 920,000
1951 .. .. 687,745 157,346 745,091
1952* .. .. 479,000 467,000 946.000
* Estimates.
Movements in the figures are due mainly
to seasonal influences. Prices realised
have been:
Home Overall
Season. Consumption. Export. Average.
1950 .. £24 11 0 £32 16 0 £2B 5 4
1951 .. 33 14 0 36 15 6 34 7 6
1952 .. 44 3 0 41 2 0 42 12 3
The British Government purchase price
of raws for 1953 has been increased by
£3 16s. Bd. (stg.) per ton for 314,000
tons of Australia’s and 125,000 tons of
Fiji’s exports. The balance of raws ex-
ported is to be sold in the open market
under U.K. and Canadian preferences.
C.S.R.’s own mills in Australia and Fiji
have turned out the following tonnages
of raws:
Australia, Fiji, Total,
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1950 .. .. 189,200 96,300 285,500
1951 . . . . 172,000 112,700 284,700
1952 .. .. 185,800 130,000 315,800
In addition to its returns as miller and
grower, the co. also receives in respect
of the Australian production of fines
£2 9s. 4d. a ton for managing, selling
and financing. Refining is done at actual
cost, £lO 15s. sd. a ton. In October last
the retail selling-price of fines was lifted
by Id., making it 9d. per pound, or £B4
per ton, of which millers and growers
together will get £49 ss. Bd.
The Australian output of raws for the
1953 season is expected to reach a record
1,200,000 tons, thanks to good seasonal
prospects and the sugar-pact with the
U.K., which provides for purchase of
increased tonnage and has about seven
years to run. Local mill-capacities have
been increased accordingly. The allotted
peak for C.S.R.’s Victoria mill (N.Q.),
biggest in the Commonwealth, has been
lifted from 52,000 tons for 1952 to 82,000
tons for 1954. Cost of the additional plant
(including a light railway to serve new
canefarms) is put at about £2,600,000.
The Fiji crop for 1953 is expected to be
a record, too.
Turnover in the building-materials
division declined, except for three lines
(timbrock, acoustic-tile and asbestos-
fibre), but picked up toward the close of
accounts. Sales of C.S.R. Chemicals
Pty. also declined and picked up again.
This subsidiary’s new factory at Rhodes
(N.S.W.) has begun production of acetic
anhydride, which has been imported
from dollar areas, and will presently
turn out cellulose acetate, the primary raw
material for making the rayon yarn
which Courtaulds (Aust.), Ltd., are to
produce. Costs are the chief headache
in the boardroom at the moment.
The year’s net addition to sugarmills
and other fixed assets was £4,132,381
and to investments (subsidiaries, etc.)
£1,156,749. At the same time £2,070,051
was slashed off the overdraft:
1948. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £11,700.000 £13,260,000 £14.040,000
Sundry creditors 3,998,884 6,263,581 8,589,630
Overdraft . . 5,217,871 3.147,820
Debentures .. 3,777,100
Suspense account 3,017,235 3,657,204
Employees’ funds* 105,801 78,098 101,919
Employee de-
bentures .. 154,375 149,190
Final divs. .. 702,000 596,700 681,800
Refineries, mills,
etc 13,417,195 20,413,384 24,887,669
Steamers . . 276,316 319,327 320,120
Distilleries . . 535,747 809.549 939,252
Premises . . 229,626 267,247 294,847
Stocks. . • . . 5,671,342 12,829,177 12,541,502
Book debts, etc. 2,682,152 4,3168,272 5,188,063
Investments . . 4,627,458 3,699,800 4,856,549
Cash and de-
posits . . 534,533 24,469
* Provident and benefit funds.
Shareholders put up £1,053,000 of fresh
capital (£780,000) and share premiums
(£273,000), the balance of the 1950 new
share-issue, and £3,777,100 of debenture
money was gathered. It was the bulk of
the Oct., 1952, issue of £4,000,000 of
5 p.c. debentures, maturing 1959-62.
Since the close of accounts a further
£3,000,000 of 5 p.c. debentures, maturing
1960-63, were offered and also over-
subscribed.
Goodyear Tyre & Rubber Co.
f Dividends s
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 17.4 p.c. serves, serves.
£> £ £ £ &
1944.. 156,796 24,000 131.000 796 476,062
40.5 p.c.
1945.. 122,192 24,000 305,000 269,244
From inner reserves, £74,088 .. 843,332
26.4 p.c.
1946.. 214,367 24,000 198,000 885,699
From inner reserves, £99,430 .. 435,129
36.8 p.c.
1947.. 300,683 24,000 276,000 683 435,812
21.6 px.
1948.. 323,138 24,000 182,000 141,138 576,949
From tax reserve, £22,381 .. 599,330
25.3 p.c.
1949.. 364,716 24,000 190,000 150,716 750,046
1950.. 596,244 24,000 572,244 1,322,290
From tax reserve, £lBO,OOO .. 1,502,290
1951.. 750,844 24,000 726,844 2,229,134
From Inner reserves, £143,878 .. 2,373,012
1952.. 452,689 24,000 428,689 2,801,701
This big Australian offshoot of the
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co., Akron
(U.S.A.), has just completed its first
quarter-century of trading with a pleas-
ing record of vigorous growth and
technical and financial achievement. It
was to sidestep the tariff that the co. —
it stepped into a ready-made connection
built-up by an importing subsidiary—
erected a- ; factory at Granville (N.S.W.),
where production began early in 1927.
The Australian public put up £300,000
in 8 p.c. cum. prefs., and the American
parent took half a million ords. for cash.
Its holding has since grown to £1,250,000,
of which £250,000 is bonus-scrip, issued
in 1934.
For the first five years, and again for
the three years to the close of last
accounts, when money was wanted to
finance development, the parent took
nothing out of the business by way of
dividends, which began to flow in 1932.
Some high rates were paid during the
post-war boom, an average of 30.1 p.c,
for the five years to the end of 1949, but
average distribution for the 26 years to
Dec. 31 last was only 13.1 p.c., sweetened
with the bonus-scrip issue already men-
tioned.
Sales now cover a wide range of pro-
ducts, including belting, hose and wet
batteries, etc., but tyres and tubes account
for the bulk of turnover. As a pointer
to what has happened in this direction of
recent years, consider the next table,
which shows new motor-vehicle registra-
tions in Australasia, excluding defence
vehicles;
Year to
Dec. 31, Oars. Trucks, etc. Total.
1949 .. .. 88,136 89,285 122,421
1950 .. .. 137,156 68,118 205,269
1951 .. .. 123,130 73,859 196,989
1952 . . . . 102,105 57,430 169,535
Total number of vehicles registered at
December 31 last was 1,811,363. And
the shoeing of tractors and earth-moving
and other heavy vehicles now accounts
for a much bigger slice of turnover than
it used to.
During 1952 Australian tyre-produc-
tion (in units) fell away by about 10
p.c., but strengthened since the close of
accounts, and has been running at about
75 p.c. of the average level for 1952.
The price of raw rubber eased during the
first quarter of 1952, remained fairly
steady for the next six months, and then
rose sharply toward the close of accounts,
but eased again since. The year’s in-
crease in the basic-wage (Aust. average)
was 15.5 p.c., and other operating and
distributing costs rose, too.
The effects of the squeeze show up in
a drop of £298,155 in net earnings. That
was after allowing £356,278 (up £212,575)
for depreciation and what looks like a
generous £584,000 (down £103,437) for
taxation. The £452,689 of profit claimecT
was enough to pay the pref. div. and
show an attractive 34.3 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 58.1, 45.8, 45.4, 39.8
and 36.8 p.c. back to 1947. On share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the year’s profit was only 10.4 p.c.
The high ratio in relation to capital
alone is due to the size of the reserves,
accumulation of which has been facili-
tated by the fact that all the ords. are in
one basket .
After paying the prof, div,, £428,689 was
ploughed back into the business, and re-
serves benefited by a further £143,878
from overprovisions in past years, lift-
ing them to £2,801,701, or £1,251,701
higher than paid capital. Now that the
programme of plant-expansion is com-
plete, the policy is one of consolidation,
and the ords. can be expected to come
back into the picture.
The year’s net addition to fixed assets,
mainly plant, was £600,606:
1949. 1950. 1951. 1952.
Pref. capital.. £300,000 £300.000 £300.000 £300,000
Ord. capital. . 750.000 1,250,000 1,250,000 1,250,000
Debentures .. 1.600.000 2,150,000 2,150,000
Creditors .. 1,299,772 212.534 961,449 292,469
Tax reserve.. 224,172 861,172 620,222 1,029,222
1 plant, 631>78 7 1,272.645 1,873,251
Stocks .. 2,045,167 3,358,519 4,690,964 4,802,262
Book debts .. 762,243 1,306,206 1,486,130 1,093,776
Cash, etc. .. 9,384 249,486 61,067 54,104
The growth of £111,298 in stocks and
contractions of £392,354 in book-debts
and of £668,980 in the creditors item
reflect developments already referred to.
Finances are obviously snug, and the
£2,150,000 of debenture money, costing
4i p.c. p.a., is earning a lot more than
its keep.
Moulded Products (A/asia), Ltd.
Parent and Subsidiaries.
f Dividends—
Pref. Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit.* 8 p.c. 5 p.c. 12 p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £ £
1947.. 42,466 1600 4,500 14,592 21,774 63,009
Share premiums, £33,736 .. .. 96,745
Unexplained addition, £250 .. .. 96,995
1948.. 33,007 1600 4,600 16,164 10,743 107,738
Sale fixed assets, £2275 .. .. 110,013
1949.. 44,533 1600 4,500 18,521 19,912 129,925
Writing off intangibles, £2041 .. 127,884
14 p.c.
1950.. 70,916 1600 6,145 30,440 32,731 160,615
Share premiums, £55,416 .. .. 216,031
Share-issue exes., £8172 .. .. 207,859
1961.. 95,748 1600 10,548 51,985 31.615 239.474
Share premiums, etc., £31,113 .. 270,687
Sale fixed assets, £B6O .. .. .. 271,447
Unexplained reduction, £llOB .. 270,339
1952. .115,090 1600 12,656 69,251 31,583 301,922
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
With Commonwealth-wide connections,
this group—parent holding co. and 16
subsidiaries —is in the forefront of Aus-
tralia’s growing plastic-manufacturing
industry. Since the public became in-
terested in 1939 the business has enjoyed
a sheltered market, and the management
has made the most of its opportunities.
Since the war, policy has been to bring
under one control a number of allied
interests, and to integrate their activities
by a process of specialisation in manu-
facture, thus eliminating much waste in
buying and selling as well as overlapping
in organisation, and so reduce unit costs.
Also executives are regularly sent over-
seas to investigate new products and new
techniques in production. Overall the
results have been very beneficial, the
chairman says, and the figures support
the claim.
Products of the group cover a wide
range of articles put out under a dozen
different trade-marks, and include plastic-
covered wire and cables, radio cabinets,
mouldings, garden-hose, brushes, toys,
kitchen accessories, light-fittings and
coated fabrics, etc. For the most part
demand has kept abreast with expand-
ing production, and turnover has stepped
along in fine style.
Issued capital, which advanced from
£BO,OOO in 1939 to £120,000 in 1944, had
shot up to £776,500 at the close of last
accounts. It consisted of 20,000 6-8 p.c.
A and 253,125 5 p.c. B prefs., all of £1
each, and 2,013,500 ords. of ss. each, and
has the support and assistance of £301,922
of reserves, as well as £250,000 of cheap
debenture money, costing on the average
4.15 p.c. Over the last couple of years
£493,375 of debenture money (£150,000),
share capital (£260,250) and share pre-
miums (£83,125) has been got in; and
profitable employment was quickly found
for the lot, and more besides.
Last term plant was further expanded,
and, although the co. felt the trade re-
cession which began in May and ran
on till early September, the year’s
turnover increased by 16 p.c. without


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australis
JACKS OX $
I* rrojD. ,<t,.
V
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW TORE
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AlfD CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
%!U£6RITtSfV
ti
fa.
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Lt<L»
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
HE HAS A
RUPTURE
df
. . .BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BABBEBE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO-BARR BRE
acts like a hand
when placed fat
upon the orifice.
Yon will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARKERS DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3t), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce..
TO ALFRED RAYMOND MALLICK known
as MASON late of Kensington.—TAKE
NOTICE that BERYL JOAN MALLICK
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1518
of 1953 on the ground of your desertion
during three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 7th day of Sep-
tember 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from TAPERELL
& PETERSEN, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, 4 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PERCY WILLIAM COSTA late of
Catherine Street South Brisbane Queens-
land.—TAKE NOTICE that MAISIE
COSTA has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1548 of 1953 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 7th day of Sep-
tember 1953 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from HUNT &
HUNT, Solicitors, of 15 Bligh Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO STANLEY ELLIOT BYWATER late
of 32 South Street Marrickville. —TAKE
NOTICE that EILEEN JOYCE BYWATER
has filed Petition for Divorce No. 1796 of
1953 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2) (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
7th day of September 1953 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
HUNT & HUNT, Solicitors, of 15 Bligh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Hegistrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO SIDNEY GEORGE DREW late of
Beverly Hills—TAKE NOTICE that
JEAN HELEN JOYCE DREW has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1271 of 1953
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you’wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 7th day of September 1953
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from HUNT & HUNT, Solicitors, of
16 Bligh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Z?
The Metropolitan Deferred Assurance Plan enables you
to pay minimum premiums for your child, and on his
majority, he can carry on the policy ... an inducement
to thrift and a protection for his future years. Ask for
Table “Q.”
Today’s Protection —Tomorrow’s Security
Australian Metropolitan
Life Assurance Co. Ltd.
HinSTER & BEIGH STREETS. SYDNEY.
Incorporated in Queensland, 1893,
FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
d
Somewhere in the hearts of all of us is a longing
that never dies. Dreams of the future become realities
of the past, but the yearning to fulfil the ambitions of
our youth stays on to the end.
As with the individual, so with the nation.
Australia is young, conscious of its growing greatness,
its most splendid years still before it.
But I think you will agree that intention is not
enough. Too many lives are lived out without satisfy-
ing the hopes of youth—and we don’t want to see that
happen to Australia. It won’t happen, if we all set
about our work with faith and courage now.
It seems to me that we need fresh minds to face
the facts surrounding this country’s opportunities.
Minds with a sense of direction. Minds with the
capacity to fix a balanced Australian objective, and to
get to it beyond all the political and physical obstacles
that lie in the way.
Fresh minds, I say, because if ever there was a
time when Australia had need of its best brains to turn
dreams and new ideas into reality that time is now.
In the community at large, we have the brains,
the men of experience, men who have the essential
quality of leadership. With the welding of Faith in
the Future with their fresh minds, where is the limit
to what we can hope for and achieve?
“My work-power for my country’s service.” Let
that be the slogan of men fitted to serve in high places.
And for the humbler ones, whose opportunities have
been less, but who have as much to offer as the more
gifted ones in loyalty and love of country, I suggest
this motto: “My hands and my heart for Australia.”
This is a “call to service.” My belief is, service is
man’s highest endeavour.
Frankly, with others, I am trying to arouse in
Australia, a spirit that will carry it on to richer things.
.My faith in my countrymen tells me it can, and will,
be done. For who can doubt that in this continent
we have a great creative mission to fulfil?
Creation is life’s greatest and most satisfying
force. And we can all be creators —you and I and the
man next door.
That is one reason for our being on earth.
any lift in selling-prices. More-
over, a growth of approximately
£65,000 in the pay-roll total, due
to lifts in wage-rates, was
absorbed by increased manufac-
turing efficiency, the chairman
says. After allowing £53,746
(down £12,478) for depreciation
and £87,204 (down £12,391) for
taxation, the net result was
£19,342 stronger at £115,090.
That was enough to pay the pref.
divs. (£14,256) and show 20.5 p.c.
on average ord. capital as against
22.5, 29.1, 24.9, 19.9 and 29.5
p.c. back to 1947. A 2 p.c. bonus
was again sent with the 12 p.c.
div. for the third year in succes-
sion, making the average distri-
bution over the last six years
13 p.c.
Stocks, which are reported
“well-spread and satisfactory,”
were reduced by £164,159, and
• book-debts increased by
’ £202,468:
) 1950. 1951. 1952.
£ £ £
1 Paid capital . . 507,521 707,730 767,771
■ Debentures . . 100,000 250,000 250,000
, Creditors, etc. 506,609 725,415 778,356
Tax provision. . 54,411 133,288 140,966
I Pinal divs. . . 23,498 38,798 83,507
, Freeholds, etc. 103,833 207,691 239,559
Plant, etc. . . 298,970 891,144 534,631
' Stocks .. 746,846 1,116,846 952,687
, Debtors . . 235,407 382,690 585,158
’ Cash, shares,
etc. .. 33,112 4,979 5,487>
The net addition to plant was
£143,487 and to freeholds, etc,,
; £31,868. Only £47,941 was
i added to the amount coming to
the bank and other creditors.
There was a drop of £61,511 in
the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£295,503), due to the outlay on
fixed assets.
There is nothing at the
moment which points to a sharp
drop in earnings for the current
term; much will depend upon
what happens in connection with
the lifting of import restrictions
and competition from abroad.
Costs, though steadier, are still
very high in relation to those of
overseas manufacturers.
The market, which likes the
way the business is shaping,
prices the f.-p. ss. ords. at
13s. Bd. (11s. 6d. a year ago) to
return 5.1 p.c. on a 14 p.c. distri-
bution. The B prefs, at 17s. yield
5.9 p;c. The A’s seldom appear
on the market. Net tangible
cover is A’s £53 18s. 5d., B’s
£4 3s. 7d. and ords. Bs.
William Adams & Co.
i Dividends— ; —,
Pref. Re-
Apl., Profit. 7 p.c.,—Ordinary serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £
’45..' 37,960 1750 10.1= 24,792 106,382
’46.. 41,821 1750 10.1 = 24,792 121,661
’47.. 53,763 1750 10.1 = 35,416 138,258
From tax res., £25,000 .. 163,258
Unexp. addition, £1378 .. 164,636
’48.. 85,217 1750 10.1 = 35,416 212,687
Share premiums, £90,000 .. 302,687
Unexp. addition, £1686 . . 304,373
’49-101,635 1750 12.8 = 58,229 346,029
Added insurance res., £1755.. 347,744
’5O-111,078 1750 12.8 = 58,229 398,843
’5l-190,728 875 15 =108,750 479,946
’52-195,749 15 = 108,750 566,945
’53-176,291 15 =108,750 634,486
Although last term’s profit was
£19,458 short of the 1952 figure,
it was still at a high level in rela-
tion to capital. It was the first
falter in net earnings since 1945,
and’ the contraction was
moderate, all things considered.
The co., whose activities extend
throughout the Commonwealth,
specialises in a wide range of
electrical equipment and other
engineering and hardware lines
andiubricants, etc. It also holds
■ the Victorian and Tasmanian
agencies for the Caterpillar
Tractor and Deere cos. of
U.S.A. which have been passed
to a new wholly-owned sub-
sidiary, William Adams Tractors
Pty., since the close of last
accounts.
The post-war history of the
undertaking has been one of
rapid and profitable development
in a market largely sheltered
from the full impact of overseas
competition, and spurred by
inflation, immigration and
defence requirements. During
the five years to the close of
accounts in 1951, shareholders
put up £455,000 of fresh ord.
capital, which brought with it
£90,000 of share premiums.
That raised paid capital to its
present figure of £725,000, which
had the support and assistance
of £634,486 of reserves at April
r 30 last; as recently as 1945 the
lay-by amounted to no more than
£106,382. The div., steady at
10.1 p.c. for the 11 years to
1948, was raised to \l\ p.c. for
the two following years and to
15 p.c. for the three years to
the close of last accounts.
Last term opened just as the
Government decided to restrict
the flood of imports which fol-
lowed on the heels of the boom
in wool and. other export prices.
Although the restrictions
retarded the co.’s supplies from
abroad, thpy also had a steadying
effect upon the level of busi-
ness activity and prices gener-
ally. Nevertheless the co.’s turn-
over appears to have declined,
more perhaps in the tractor than
in other sections of the business,
while wage and other costs con-
tinued to rise. The £176,291 of
profit, which was written after
allowing £36,154 (up £6773) for
depreciation and something for
taxation and other contingencies,
was equal to 24.3 p.c. on capital
as against 27, 26.3, 23.1, 21.2 and
22.7 p.c. back to 1948. So
nothing had to be strained to
repeat the 15 p.c. div.
Movements in balance-sheet
figures also suggest that trade
was less buoyant:
1951. 1952. 1953.
£ £ £
Paid capital.. 725,000 725,000 725,000
Overdraft . . 21,281 430,817 355,208
Sndy credit’s* 702,670 802,285 703,471
Final divs. .. 65,250 65,250 65,250
Freeholds .. 227,506 287.364 322,128
Plant, etc. .. 83,580 121,276 114,178
Stocks . . 835,468 1,196,840 1,245,958
Book debts .. 713,022 842,165 716,926
Cash, etc. . . 134,621 142,652 84,225
* Including provision for tax and other
contingencies.
Debtors’ balances (down
£125,239) and cash, etc. (down
£58,427) were reduced and the
overdraft (down £75,609) and
amount coming to sundry credi-
tors, etc. (down £98,814) were
lightened, while stocks increased
by £49,118, and £34,764 was
added to freeholds. When the
books closed there was 15s. 7d.
(19s. Id. a year earlier) coming
to the bank and sundry creditors,
etc., for every £ belonging to
shareholders in the business.
The market, heartened by last
term’s performance, prices the
f.-p. £1 shares at 495, 6d. (395.
in April, 1952) to return 6 p.c. on
a 15 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is 375. 6d.
At Hill 50, Mount Magnet
(W.A.), the shaft has been sunk
to a depth of 960 ft., and prepara-
tions are in hand to deepen it
further. Lowest level in the
mine now being worked is 820 ft.,
where the proved width of the
whole ore-body in the main
cross-cut is over 100 ft., of which
more than 50ft, is in good-to-
high values. In reporting the
results of diamond-drill hole
No. 86 the co. says that “at the
1050 ft. horizon, 230 ft. below the
820 ft. level, it is estimated that
good-grade ore extends over a
width of 70ft,” Insufficient work
has been carried out to give a
true idea of the length of the
ore-body at the 1050 ft, horizon.
At the 820 ft. level the ore-body
is over 300 ft. long. Paid capital
is £150,000 in f.-p. 4s, shares,
which fetched 61s. 3d. on June
17 as against 58s. a week earlier
and 345. on March 4 last.
* * *
The Australian Aluminium
Production Commission has
withdrawn its offer of reward
for discovery of new bauxite
deposits because it considers
proved and estimated domestic
reserves of the stuff have been
built up to an adequate figure.
The main deposits are in
northern N. S. Wales, where the
commission holds mining rights
to areas known to contain
approximately 7.7 million tons
bauxite. There are also large
deposits in Victoria, Tasmania
and at Wessell Islands, off the
coast of Arnhem Land. The
latter are the highest-grade yet
discovered in Australia. The
commission’s 13,000 - ton - p.a.
aluminium plant at Bell Bay
(Tas.), which is being erected at
a cost of about £7£ million, is
expected to commence produc-
tion in 1954.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
It was quite admirable the way Lieut.-
Colonel Fordham Flower, who is
Governor of the Shakspeare Memorial
Theatre, varied his talk through the six
receptions Sydney accorded him in about
two days. At a couple, however, he
told the story of the telegram Bernard
Shaw sent when the not-over-beautiful
theatre was burned down in 1926. “Con-
gratulations,” wrote G.JJ.S. “You must
be delighted.”
Colonel Flower has now thoroughly
explained to Sydney people the consti-
tution and organisation of the Shak-
speare Memorial Theatre. It is a non-
profitmaking public service financed by
private enterprise. It was established
about 70 years ago by Colonel Flower’s
great-uncle, but the present theatre was
built in 1932 from money largely raised
in America. It was nice to hear that
cricket has always been a tradition with
the Stratford companies, the first actor-
manager Frank Benson being reputed to
have once sent a telegram to an agent;
Please send me a wicketkeeper who can
also play Laertes.”
At the Royal Empire Society’s recep-
tion Colonel Flower, with Mrs. Flower
(who is a most decorative person) were
greeted by Mr. W. J. Bradley, Sir
Stephen and Lady Holmes with daughter
Jennifer, Sir Charles Bickerton Blackburn,
the E. W. Burbridges, Doris Fitton, Major
and Mrs, C. D. Chapman, Group-
Captain and Mrs. J. Waddy, Mrs. F. H.
Berryman, Miss Margaret Gillespie, the
Patrick Donnells, the Robert Steads and
Mrs. Anthony Quayle from the Stratford
Company in Sydney.
At the luncheon given by the Overseas
Club, where the attendance shot past all
expectations, the chief welcomer was Sir
Henry Manning, whilst Mr. Aubrey
Halloran gave some curious and interest-
ing sidelights on culture in Sydney, past,
present and future,
☆ ☆ ☆
At the “Commemoration of Pioneer
Women” held by the Women’s Pioneer
Society at their clubrooms during the
week, Mr. Malcolm H. Ellis gave a very
interesting talk on the lives of two of
Australia’s most outstanding women
pioneers; Elizabeth Macarthur and
Elizabeth Macquarie. Mrs. Macarthur
established the first Australian family
to maintain high domestic standards,
managed her husband’s properties for
long periods while he, was absent, and
brought up her family so well that they
took their place without embarrassment
in cultured English society. Mrs. Mac-
quarie had apparently been chosen by her
husband for her talents, her gift for land-
scape-gardening, her ability to fish with
the long line. “What a grand soldier’s
wife she would make! ” he wrote, and
indeed she proved a grand wife for a
colonial Governor when they came to
Australia. These two women were on
friendly terms, having had mutual
acquaintances in England; a fact that
must have had an important effect on
Australian history.
There were about 50 members present
at this reception, with the president, Mrs.
Wentworth Grayson, welcoming the
guests, who included Mrs. Malcolm Ellis,
past-president Mrs. W. A. Lingham, and
Mrs. W. Campbell, at whose suggestion
it had been decided to hold this com-
memoration of Pioneer Women annually.
☆ ☆ ☆
A good representative group of gradu-
ates in arts, law, medicine and science
came along to the reunion luncheon of
ex-students of Sancta Sophia College,
held at Prince’s during the week. The
president of the association, Mrs. L.
Eastmuir, was one of the six doctors
present, the others being Mrs. Justin
Fleming, Mrs. J, Keenan, Mrs. Gordon
Pasfield, Mrs. William Bye and Mrs. G.
Fitzgerald. Noted also among the group
chatting and reminiscing were Mrs.
Edmund Collingridge, Mrs. Tom Bate-
man, Mrs. Kevin Fagen and Mrs. Eric
Miller.
☆ ☆ ☆
Those committee-meetings where the
only business is to hand over money to
the charities concerned are always the
most enjoyable, and so proved the Red
Cross Ball committee-meeting at the
Forutn Club on Thursday, when the presi-
dent, Mrs. J. P. J. McCauley, presented
a cheque for £942 to Mr. J. F. Clack
for the Red Cross. Mrs. F. H. Berryman
proposed a vote of thanks to Mrs.
McCauley which was seconded by Mrs.
H. A. Showers and warmly endorsed by
the committee-members present, who
included Mrs. H. Hedinger, Mrs. R.
Miculicic Rodd, Mrs. C. M. Guiney, Mrs.
R. Lay and Mrs. Allen Williams,
* * ☆
Comment by an elderly lady removed
from her overdecorated fuggy apartment
to a new and gleaming home: “Well, it
may be very modern, but to me it’s just
like living in a refrigerator.”
, * ☆ ☆
Catty remark by a man whose boss had
received a Coronation medal: “Of course
he deserved it, but I wish they’d awarded
it posthumously.”
☆ ☆ ☆
The Dental Undergraduates Ball which
is to be held at the Trocadero on July 9
will benefit from the cocktail-party held
at the Wahroonga home of Jan Brecken-
ridge on Saturday evening. The huge
garage had been decorated in a novel way
with bales of straw, cardboard cut-outs
of horses (Qne efficiently fitted with a
denture), cows and the general symbols
of farm-life, while Chinese lanterns lit up
the lawn at ffie back. About 150 young
people attended, for whom preparations
had been made by Jan herself, helped
by Mary Rolfe, Eileen Smith, Kathy
O’Leary, Marion Stipwitch, Sue Milton,
Trixie McGirr, Mrs. K. Taubman and
dental undergraduates John Duckworth,
Brian Braithwaite and Len Nash.
Elizabeth Mclntyre, well known as the
writer and illustrator of children's stories,
including "Ambrose Kangaroo,”
“Catherine Who Lives in Australia” and
"Willie's Woollies,” recently left by air
for New York, where she will make
arrangements for the publication of her
new book “The Penny wells.” Miss Mc-
Intyre, who in private life is Mrs. John
Eldershaw, expects to be in America for
only a month. Photo by Norton Trevaire
(Manly).
One of the few clubs in Sydney to
cater for both men and women members
will be the All Nations Club to be opened
early in September at 49 Bayswater-road
(remembered as the C.W.A. hostel). The
aim of the club is to bring both old and
new Australians together in social and
cultural activities, and judging by the pro-
jected facilities every possible service is
to be offered. Chairman of the club-
committee is Sir Robert Gan#n, and vice-
presidents are Mr. R. J. F. Boyer, Mr.
Frank McDowell and the Hon. Camilla
Wedgwood.
☆ ☆ ☆
The All Nations Fair, which last year
raised the admirable sum of £6OOO for
Legacy, will be held this year from
November 18 to 20 at the Trocadero.
Mrs. Lionel McFadyen is again the presi-
dent, with Miss Betty Ward as organising
secretary and Mrs. John Dyneley-Fell
honorary treasurer. It was reported at
the inaugural meeting during the week
that the de'mands on Legacy had increased
considerably of late, not only because of
the Korean war, but also because appeals
were coming in now for the first time
from the families of a number of men
who fell in the 1939-45 war. Legacy now
cares for 23,000 young people in N.S.W.
alone.
/HEILB'OUIRNE
The Governor and Lady Brooks,
attended by Captain T. Kirwan-Taylor
and Anne Spraggett, were at the Corona-
tion Ball held at the Royale to help along
the funds of Prince Henry’s Hospital.
Flowers were red, white and blue,
with a portrait of the Queen dominating
each end of the ballroom. Lady Brooks
wore a lovely gown of cream-and-gold
brocade, the skirt very full, and the
bodice having a draped heart-shaped
neckline. Of shot-nylon in shades of
violet and green was the gown worn by
the president of the committee, Mrs.
W. K. Burnside. Mrs. L. L. Schroder,
the hon, secretary, was in oyster-grey
brocade faintly patterned with orchid-
pink. Anne Spraggett wore a delightful
gown of delphinium-blue moire-taffeta.
In the official party were the Len
Doolings, she wearing pale-pink satin
brocades, and Colonel Wallis and his
daughter Barbara, who wore a plum-
toned faille sheath frock.
Mrs. Ralph Bryant’s parma violet satin
brocade frock was full-skirted; Mrs. S.
Houston wore bouffant pink tulle; Mrs.
David Raeburn-Brown an embroidered
grey tulle gown made over mauve satin.
Mrs. W. Coogan combined lace and tulle
in her black frock. Mrs. Lee Rich-
mond’s midnight-blue tulle gown was
splashed with opalescent sequins. Matron
of the hospital, Miss A. Morgan, was
with Mrs. W. Pultney Mein in the official
party.
Coloratura soprano Erna Sack, who
flew round the world before reaching
Australia to make a concert tour under
the J.C.W. banner, was trained in Vienna
and then was engaged by Bruno Walter
as a small-part lyric soprano with the
Berlin State Opera. It was during a re-
hearsal of “Don Pasquale,” while singing
a cadenza, that she suddenly found that
she was able to go higher and higher until
she sang the C above high C. Richard
Strauss himself changed some of his com-
positions in the higher ranges to permit
Erna to sing her high birdlike tones. Her
first singing teacher was Herman Sack,
to whom she is now married, and who
has accompanied her to Australia.
For her first recital Erna wore a Chris-
tian Dior strapless gown of heavy white
Duchess satin. The deep, oblique hem
was of crimson velvet, appliqued with
satin and embroidered with gold bullion
and sequins. For the first portion of the
concert, the singer wore a waist-length
caped jacket of crimson velvet. In the
audience was Mrs. Frank Tait, whose
gown of black taffeta featured a wide
skirt latticed in gold braid to give a
spider-web effect. Mrs. Tom Mitchell
had a party of friends with her, and
others of the large audience included Mr.
Walter Ebstein, Maggie Fitzgibbon, back
home after a long tour with the “Kiss
Me Kate” company, and Dolly Davis.
* * *
At Giro’s a successful dinner-dance
was held by members of the Whernside
Junior Auxiliary of the Royal Melbourne
Hospital. Lady Hurley and Mrs. R. W.
Chambers were received by the president
of the auxiliary, Margaret Anne Jupp,
whose frock was of hyacinth-blue Chan-
tilly lace over matching taffeta. Mrs.
Gavan Flanagan, the dance-secretary,
wore a frock of steel-grey slipper-satin.’
Mrs. Ross Shelmerdine, who was one of
the ticket-secretaries with Beverley Geary
and Jill Kemelfield, wore an ice-blue
angora jacket over a black dinner-gown.
Among the dancers were Jocelyn Noall,
wearing poinsettia-red tulle with a velvet
spot; Marguerite Weir, in flame-red
tulle; Winsome Dane, her frock of soft-
pink tulle; Mrs. Douglas Bowden, in
emerald-green chiffons; Deirdre Neylon,
whose taffeta gown was of bold black-
and-white checks; Nan Dixon, her
bouffant white tulle skirt topped with a
strapless black velvet bodice; and Mrs.
Max Mitchell, whose short dinner-frock
of beige lace had a finely-pleated skirt.
„☆ ☆ ☆
St. John’s Church, Toorak, was the
setting for the marriage of Julia Mary,
only daughter of Mr. and Mrs, Edgar
Rouse, of Toorak. The bride’s gown
of white nylon net was made with a
long-sleeved fitted bodice, misted by a
full-length tulle veil held with a wreath
of orange blossom. A trail of white
gardenias fell from her ivory prayer-
book. Margaret Simpson, sister of the
bridegroom, and Margaret Russell were
bridesmaids. Their frocks were dove-
grey, and their cloche hats of feathers.
The bridegroom, Lawrence Andrew Fer-
guson, is the elder son of Mr. and Mrs.
Ferguson Simpson, of Oaklands (N.S.W.).
Best man was his brother, John, and
John Rouse was groomsman. Recep-
tion was at the home of the bride’s
parents.
☆ ☆ ☆
At a meeting of the Women’s Group
of the Australian-American Association
at the Delphic the handsome profits from
the Coral Sea Ball were dispersed. The
Patriotic Fund of the Association re-
ceived £6OO, the Royal Melbourne Hos-
pital £2OO, and the White Ensign Club
£5O. The president of the Women’s
Group, Mrs. R. G. Casey, read a letter
from Queen Elizabeth in which she
thanked the association for its good
wishes for her Coronation. Guest-
speaker was Mrs, David Cheadle, a
charming American now living in this
city, who spoke on U.S. fashion trends.
Among those at the meeting were Lady
Latham, Lady Hurley, Mesdames Henry
Stebbins, Rupert Downes, Frank Watts,
W. H. Horsfall, Lionel Newton, W. W.
Killough, Robert Macklin, James Taylor
and John Sullivan.
☆ ☆ ☆
Log fires made very cheery the recep-
tion-rooms of Mrs. Saul Aarons’s East
St. Kilda home when she gave a buffet-
luncheon for many friends of Mrs. Grey
Staley. The hostess highlighted her
black frock with an emerald-green chiffon
scarf. The guest-of-honor wore a black
frock and a black velvet cloche. Mrs.
Staley’s daughter, Mrs. Betty O’Connor,
wore a scarlet bolero with her black
frock and small black velvet cap. Among
the guests were Mrs. Gilbert Walsh, in
silver-grey jacket-suit and matching cap;
Mrs. Eric Cotterell, whose forest-green
coat was worn with a scarlet cloche;
Mrs. Frank Martin, her suit Of claret-
toned tweed; Mrs. Wallace Mitchell,
Mrs. Norman Spry, Mrs. L. A. Davison,
Mrs, Frank Hall and Miss Alyce Wyatt.
* ☆ *
After his Town Hall recital the Chinese
bass, Yi-Kwei Sze, and his accompanist-
wife were entertained at a supper-party
given by the Chinese Consul, Mr. T, Liu,
and Madame Liu at the Wentworth. The
singer’s wife wore a lovely shell-pink
satin brocade gown, and Madame Liu a
dark-green-and-gold national dress under
silver-fox furs. Guests included the Vic-
torian manager of the A.8.C., David
Feldsman, and Mrs. Feldsman, Mrs. T.
J. Ryan, Mr. and Mrs. A. T. Smithers,
the Vice-Consul for China, Mr. S. C.
Chang, Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Chan, the
Len Doolings and Mrs. W. Thoman.
☆ ☆ ☆
To honor Canada’s National Day on
July 1 the Commercial Secretary for
Canada, Mr. R. W. Blake, and Mrs.
Blake will hold a reception at the Aus-
tralia on July 1,
* ☆ *
The Metropolitan Theatre, which cele-
brates its 10th anniversary with the
Coronation play “The First Gentleman,”
has some notable names among its list of
original members; May Hollingworth,
one of Sydney’s most distinguished pro-
ducers in repertory, Alathea Siddons,
Betty Roland, Jane Holland, and Leo
McKern (now with the Stratford-upon-
Avon Company), Wendy Gibb, who is
doing very well in London, Lynne
Murphy and Dinah Shearing, who have
won special awards for acting, Rosemary
Miller, John Dease, Kevin Brennan,
Robin Lovejoy, Carlotta Kalmar, Gwen
Harrison, Bruce Beeby and many others
who have made a name in the theatre.


fd
THE
FABULOUS
FIN ETTA
Plenty of Kodachrome colour film available.
Finetta IV Ft Liens £l2 10
Everyready Case .. £3 10
Finetta Super F 2.8
Liens *l® i°,
E/B Case „ £ 3
Finetta 99 F 2.8 Lens £3B 0
E/B Case £ » 0
We send C.0.D., Lay-Bys,
Easy Terms.
Cairns Camera
Centre
Hotel Australia building,
19 MARTIN PLACE,
SYDNEY.
l/> Ul
2 « c
y a y
y
THE
Prflsidfint
PROGRAMME
ONCRIEFF
SHOW
fd
f
d
AUSTRALIA’S
SWEETHEART
IN HER FIRST
REGULAR RADIO
PROGRAMME
Hear “Our Glad” make a Good Neighbour Award each week-
help a promising young artist —and laugh with her at the delight-
ful humour of Lou Vernon’s “Luigi.” Popular personality David
Low, brilliant musicians Wilbur Kentwell and Glen Marks, and
a well-known guest artist are also featured in “The Gladys
Moncrieff Show” —the show with a heart!
Produced by
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN • 6IX - 7LA
2HR - 3CV ■ 6WB - 6MD - 7HO
Every Monday Night 8.30
.fSTI
(9.00 p.m. in W.A.)
Tk 8 Mfflßll BroadcastingSerm
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
National Opera
Atmosphere is the important
thing in any performance of
“La Boheme,” and the National
Opera’s performance in Bris-
bane was not completely success-
ful in that regard, mainly be-
cause of minor production
faults. The fine sets appeared
destined for success, but the
sombre immobility of the crowd
in the street-scene completely
wrecked any illusion of Parisian
gaiety. Similarly, the Musette of
Beryl Hardy, eminently satisfying
to the eye, failed to stride vocally
over this scene, and in the
quartet —Puccini’s favorite pas-
sage in the work failed even
to match the Mimi of Tais
Taras in volume.
On the other hand, Geoffrey
Chard brought to his Marcel the
same theatrical awareness and
vocal skill that made his Figaro
a success, and outshone the
producer in his understanding
of the temper of Bohemian
artists.
Ronald Niell’s Rodolpho
was gentler in voice than
Ronald Dowd’s—not a bad thing
for an opera “poet”—and his
acting was immeasurably better.
* *
Kentner-Goossens
In the Sydney Orchestra sub-
scription concert on Saturday
Goossens presented Vaughan
Williams’s “Sinfonia Antarctica.”
The work is to all intents pro-
grammatic, the themes having
been “inspired” by the film
“Scott of the Antarctic,” the in-
cidental music for which was
written by the composer.
For the most part it is a
noisy symphony —for symphony
it really is. There seems to be
some discrepancy here, especi-
ally as the percussion section of
the orchestra and the brasses
are so overworked, as the ex-
treme south of the world has
heretofore been regarded as a
vast area of utter solitude and
silence.
Some of the work is boring,
some of it is exciting, and too
much of it could equally have
been an evocation of the erup-
tion of Krakatoa rather than of
an Antarctic storm. The best
of it is in the calmer stretches
Louis Kentner was soloist in
the Piano Concerto No. 5 (“The
Emperor”) by Beethoven. This
great work is a challenge to the
best that is in the orchestra as
well as to the highest interpre-
tative skill of the pianist, and
the orchestra rose to the occa-
sion, playing grandly to match
the brilliance of Mr. Kentner.
* *X*
Dragons!
A dragon is a lovesome thing,
God wot —particularly when it’s
Kenneth Grahame’s Reluctant
Dragon who would sooner knit
and write poetry than scourge
the countryside, and more par-
ticularly when it’s in marionette
form—as it is at Sydney Mercury
in Norman Hetherington’s
Saturday-afternoon marionette
show.
Hetherington’s dragon, which,
apart from making tea, knitting
and writing odes, also blows
smoke, is a delightful creature,
and its conniving with Sir Giles,
the spindle-shanked and red-
nosed dragon-slayer, to give the
villagers a fight for their money
without injury to either party, is
a delightful and whimsical bit
of diplomacy.
The antics of the Dragon and
Sir Giles kept the Mercury
audience greatly intrigued and
amused for the .first half of the
programme. The second half
was taken up with a circus per-
formance by all sorts of
wondrous creatures, including
clowns, a performing horse, a
contortionist and a skeleton
which danced, disintegrated,
reformed and danced again.
It is rather difficult to define
the particular skill which makes
and operates all these fascinating
creatures, but, whatever it is, the
creator and manipulator of this
particular family appears to have
mastered it to a remarkable
degree,
♦> ❖
The First-Born
The quality that adds sparkle
to a Christopher Fry comedy —
that delicious savor of the
poetry —weakens his only
tragedy. Still, it took Shak-
speare half a lifetime to arrive
at the dramatic effectiveness of
the simple “Pray, Sir, undo this
button” of “King Lear.”
In Brisbane’s Twelfth Night
Theatre presentation of “The
First-Born,” the trapping of
poetry got in the way of im-
mediacy of meaning so often
that any sense of dramatic ten-
sion was dispelled by it. And
this commentator suspected, on
more than one occasion, that
the actors did not really under-
stand what they were talking
about in this drama of events
leading to the Exodus.
Margaret Olley’s sets, rich in
color and strongly lit, were ex-
cellent for the Egypt of the
Pharaohs, and it was a pity that
the same authority was not
present in the Pharaoh of James
Stevens, whose descent from
majesty had nowhere to fall. As
Ramases, his son, Peter Munro
appreciated both poetry and
meaning, but was left standing
around too much by his creator-
dramatist. „ ,
The Moses of Tom Bencke
was impressive in stature and
gesture, but it lacked the vocal
authority necessary to a divine
mouthpiece. Of the women,
only Therese D’Arcy gave a
noteworthy performance. Her
Miriam was a brooding, passion-
ate thing, complete in its
synthesis of poetry and gesture,
and if the passionate result
mpant an occasional obscurity
of diction, it was better than
the elocutionary declamation
of others in the cast.
, ❖
Margaret Barton
Very aptly this promising
18-year'-old pianist chose
Beethoven’s youthful Sonata in
A Major, Op. 2 No. 2, as the
first, of the two big works at her
farewell Sydney recital —she is
London-bound on a scholarship.
There was a hint of the needed
sublimity in the Largo, and, in
the Scherzo, fluency and the
carefree mood. Tenderness was
in the Rondo, but not the fairy-
like quality.
Her reading of Schumanns
“Camaval” was surprisingly
mature, and there was little of
its inherent poetry and whimsi-
cality that Miss Barton failed
to penetrate.
Artbursts
Sculpture
With what seems the establish-
ment of a rather dangerous pre-
cedent, the N. S. Wales National
Art Gallery has made one of its
courts available to the Society
of Sculptors and Associates for
its third exhibition. Logically
developed, that policy would
seem to recommend turning the
Public Library into a bookshop
and the sale of antiques at the
Museum.
Still, if a National Gallery is an
odd place for a commercial ex-
hibition, the exhibition itself is
even more odd—a peculiar
conglomeration of paintings,
wirework, tinsmithing, archi-
tecture, woodcarving and sundry
other abstracts, "designs,” "con-
structions” and "compositions.
One can walk the length and
breadth of the exhibition with-
out finding much evidence of art
except, possibly, in D. Orban’s
two “Still Life” and G. Lewer’s
decorative impression in black-
bean wood of “Flight of Birds.”
& *
The Holly Group, which got
its name from the caf£ in which
the group met, is holding its
fourth annual exhibition at Tye’s
Gallery, Melbourne. Reshid
Bey’s “Tea” is the outstanding
portrait —the rough old boy de-
picted has been felt much more
than his hard and uncompromis-
ing “Miss Deidre Niall.”
Gordon Speary gets some quality
into his landscapes, but has put
a dint in his “Evening Sky”
which requires explanation.
Ewen J, French is conventional
in watercolors and W. Vaughan
Manders derivative of Drysdale
in his “Street Scene, Fitzroy.”
Graham Moore turns in compe-
tent still-life and Don Morrow
academic figure-studies.
* * +>
Albert Luther Gill, who had a
gallery in Prahran and held
metropolitan exhibitions, put the
late Septimus Power on the map
by selling £lO,OOO-worth of his
equine portraits at one exhibi-
tion. Cathleen Edkins, a pupil
of that teacher, is holding an
exhibition at the Athenaeum
which is a remarkable tribute to
her master. She gives the lovely
glossy surface of racehorses,
hunters and draughthorses the
same consideration, and paints
the countryside with the same
broad brush.
Talkies
“Limelight”
In this, more than in any
previous film of his, Chaplin dis-
plays the many facets of his
genius. He wrote the story and
the screen-play and the music ;
he directed it and bore the chief
histrionic burden.
The story: Cavallero, a
formerly-great but now un-
wanted theatre comic, saves a
sick, poverty-stricken dancer
from attempted suicide. Gradu-
ally he builds her back to physi-
cal and mental health, and,
though in despair at his own
failure, fires her by the force of
his personality and his importun-
ings to fight her way up the
ladder. She succeeds, to become
a famous prima ballerina, and,
secure herself, endeavors to lift
him again, but his comeback is
a flop. Finally his old theatrical
friends rally and give him a
monster benefit-concert, at which
he is surprisingly an unqualified
success, but a fatal heart seizure
following a fall during his comic
turn robs him of the fruits of
his success.
Chaplin plays with great skill
on the same motif he used in his
slapstick comedies of 40 years
ago: the pathetic little man and
the cold, hard world. But here
a deep humanity informs his art.
This film has its roots deep
life, and the philosophy that
Chaplin expounds is sound.
Several contemporary com-
posers have offered up music of
less worth than that written by
Chaplin for this film, and the
ballet sequences are admirable.
There are two priceless
sequences which reveal the great-
ness of Chaplin as a mime. One
is a flea-training act, the other
—with Buster Keaton as his
accompanist—as a celebrity
violinist. This latter is worth
going to see for itself ten
minutes of pure joy. His lead-
ing lady, Claire Bloom, has wist-
ful charm and fine acting ability.
At Sydney Regent,
♦♦♦
“The Naked Spur”
An excellent outdoor film
made by M.-G.-M. and set in
Colorado a century ago. James
Stewart, an embittered settler
on the trail of a killer with a
big price on his head, co-opts
the aid of an old prospector
(Millard Mitchell), and later a
dishonorably-discharged soldier
(Ralph Meeker). They capture
the escapee, agreeing to split the
reward three ways.
Their prisoner (Robert Ryan)
uses the greed motif to one
captor against another, and the
proceedings thereafter make
first-class drama. There is a
woman in it, of course, but in
a minor role. Anthony Mann’s
direction cannot be faulted, and
his use of the color camera is
inspired. At Sydney St. James,
+> ❖
“Doctor Knock”
This French film, at Mel-
bourne Savoy, is a highly
amusing satire on the medical
(Continued on page 34)


/)
z^ 7
WARNING!
Acid Action
at work
in your car
When your engine cools down, con-
densation takes place on your cylinder
walls and acid action goes to work.
In fact, when your car is locked
up in your garage, “safe for the
night,” it is really trapped with its
worst enemy—acid.
To arrest the harmful eifect of this acid
action (main cause of all engine wear),
Shell has produced Shell X-100 Motor
Oil. The unique acid-arresting
additive in Shell X-100 Motor Oil
was discovered by Shell, is made by
Shell and is exclusive to Shell.
ARREST ACID ACTION WITH
f
an
MOTOR OIL
The only Motor Oil In the world that Arrests Acid Action—
Reduces engine wear by up to 50%
. / ‘ N
The Shell Company of Australia Ltd. (Inc. in Great Britain)
DOCTORS e STATESMEN • SPORTSMEN • EDITORS
ms
m
mm
iSwf
m
m
HE LOOKED
SMART
AND GOT
THE JOD!
More successful men use
PALMOLIVE
than any other SHAVE CREAM
With that clean, s-m-o-o-t-h, successful look, Bill’s
a credit to his Company. Your shaves, too, will
look good and feel good with Palmolive the
Shaving Cream that gives 3 men out of every 4 a
better shave. Proof? Here it is. We asked 1,251
men to try it . . . 81% reported “Beards easier to
cut” . . . 76% said “Less razor pull” . . . 71% said
"Closer shaves.” ... 80% found “Smoother-feeling
skin.” But you be the judge. Follow the example
of successful men. Get smoother, more comfortable
shaves with Palmolive Bather Shaving Cream.
LOOK SUCCESSFUL! BE SUCCESSFUL!
USE
df
The shaving cream
0 of successful men
BA kiLrgnr # CVCCMITIVEC a SAI PSMEN M LAWyEES
PRIDE AND PROPERTY
by John
fountacn
Billy bower hadn’t
been long at the Hollow
before he heard about
Dennis Slattery. Later,
out on the job, “Look out for
old Dennis,” one of the other
fettlers said ; “he’ll have your
poddy lambs for sure.”
The clannishness of these
jokes, repeated so many times,
full of a humor dark with things
unsaid, annoyed Billy very
much. A short, dark, hairy
man, with broad hands hard
from bush-work before he ever
came to “the Railway,” Billy
liked to get to the bottopi of
things, and when he couldn’t,
as he admitted, it made him
wild. But there was no ultimate
getting to the bottom of things
at the Hollow, for a stranger.
Billy had been working with
Clem Saunders for a month,
burning - off and ripping - up
sleepers, sharing his water-bag
with him as a man and a
brother, before he knew Clem
was Dennis Slattery’s nephew.
When he found out he was
wild about that, too.
But at first he was honestly
puzzled. “For why,” he wanted
to know, “would he take my
poddies? A rich man like
him?”
That anyone would steal from
the few head of stock on his
few poor acres—rented, at that,
with the blistered red house and
a harvest of thistles, from
another Slattery—the idea of
such a crime, after the first in-
credulous moment, filled Billy
with a sense of injustice, very
like an ulcer pain, burning and
intolerable.
If pinned down, a good many
people would have to confess a
sympathy with Billy’s ideas.
The good prices after the war
had modified the ethics of a
number of people, except the
very rich, and they could be
counted on one hand, and the
very good, who are always with
us but not, usually, in large
numbers. But fundamental opin-
ions on morality and property
remained much the same.
It was wrong to steal, natu-
rally. But it was less wrong to
steal from some people than
from others. In fact stealing
from some people, or institu-
tions, such as the Government,
provided one wasn’t caught, and
took within reason, was hardly
stealing at all—more like a bit
of good-natured fun, or absent-
mindedness.
There was something wicked
about wealth, most people felt.
The tracks of Satan, or of long-
lost sheep, a sort of ghostly
pattern, could be traced on
many a proud property, every-
one secretly believed, if you
looked hard enough. If not in
this generation, then in the one
before ; or the one before that.
There was such a thing as being
too honest, many a family said,
looking bitterly at the pros-
perity of a neighbor.
How was it one family, no
less hard-working, God-fearing
and intelligent than its neighbors,
just struggled on—putting aside
the recent good seasons, and the
corresponding iniquity of the
Taxation Department while
the neighbors made money
hand-over-fist? Considering a
family, that is, as an organic
whole; not detached specimens.
T OOKING in this wise,
ancient way at a rich family
like the Smileys, for instance,
who could deny that his own
family was as good as the
Smileys? His old father as hard
a toiler as Jack Smiley’s old
man, his own mother, compared
with old Mrs. Smiley, as saving
and good? He wasn’t much of
a man if he did deny it. Com-
ing right down to it, and being
honest, wasn’t he, himself, just
as good a manager as Jack
Smiley, if a bit unlucky? Well,
then. ...
It was clear a fit of careless-
ness by some passing drover or
indignant neighbor concerning
Smiley’s sheep was not only
natural, but almost inevitable;
a piece of poetic justice, in fact,
a trifle delayed.
It was also clear that no
arbitrary system of assessing
wealth was entirely reliable —
and in this respect the Income
Tax Commissioner obviously
erred. The best a man could do
was apply a sliding-rule, with
himself as reference-point. Any-
one above this übiquitous point
was rich; oneself was merely
“comfortable,” “out of the
woods,” or “battling,” as the
case might be.
Even the Smileys had been
known to speak enviously of
people from other districts.
But Dennis Slattery was rich.
Billy Bower was poor. There
was no getting over that. Not
even Dennis would bother to
deny it, because a peculiarity of
his was his unabashed pride of
wealth, very like that of a
buccaneer chief, proud of his
conquests. In this, as in so
many of his characteristics,
Dennis was different from other
men around the Hollow, more
innocent, in a way, and less com-
plex, He towered above them,
in his simple-hearted villainy,
like a giant ant-hill on a flat
red plain.
Dennis had been poor himself,
but he would not dream of re-
specting a poor man’s property
on that account. The idea
would have struck him as
humorous. He would take
Billy’s poddy lambs if he wanted
them; and when Billy finally
realised that this monstrous per-
version of natural justice was
not only possible, but probable,
he almost suffocated with rage.
ABOUT this time Billy began
to talk about what he would
do to anyone he caught tamper-
ing with his poddy lambs, his
cows and calves, Mum’s chooks,
or Mum; the last was not so
much stated as darkly implied,
and Clem Saunders, who re-
peated it, might well have been
mistaken. Clem was never
above exaggerating to improve
a story. But Billy, especially
when excited, had a curious
habit of confusing his family
and his livestock in conversation,
skipping in a bizarre fashion
from details of an addition to
his family to no less lucid de-
tails of a pregnancy in his family
of pigs. For Billy had not been
long in residence at Emily
Slattery’s old place, near the
saleyards, before he acquired a
couple of pigs. Good sorts of
long-bodied Canadian Berk-
shire sows, on their second
litter. They, too, were a source
of anxiety.
Billy was short, but he was
very broad, and he was vain of
his strength. He let it be known
((Continued on page 22)


Mr. Knhx’s remarks to C.S.R. shareholders
Living standards
on taxation and the standard of living are illustrated
on tools of production
“Standard of living” has a real
meaning for all of us. High living
standards make us think of com-
fortablc homes, wholesome food and
good clothes, cars, refrigerators, and
leisure time. The reasons for changes
in living standards are often hidden
behind words, like capital, employ-
ment, productivity, depreciation, taxa-
tion. It is easy to understand what
makes a high living standard possible
when we realise that it depends on
simple things like coal, iron, and
farmlands, which nature has pro-
vided; the work men do on them; and
the tools they use to do that work.
Tools of production, used by energetic
people, are the main source of high
living standards.
Primitive man had few tools to
work with other than things like
digging sticks. He lived a hand-
to-mouth existence. Without
tools, the production of his bare
hands was scarcely sufficient to
keep him alive.
=3^
A
The plough and the axe were
two of the earliest tools pioneers
used to win a living from
nature. The produce obtained
by using these simple tools
allowed them to have a higher
living standard than primitive
man.
'A
//.
Modern farmers use up-to-date
tools like powerful tractors.
Because of these tools their
work produces more from the
land than they need themselves.
The extra goods are sold, and
raise the living standards of the
whole community.
Factories and the machines in
them are also tools of produc-
tion, like the farmer’s tractor.
Their high production raises the
living standards of the people
who work them, the people who
own them, and the people who
buy the manufactured goods.
W
fr
OFFICE
But factories cost much more
than tractors. Therefore, they
are seldom owned by individuals
like farmers, but by numbers of
people. These people group
themselves into companies, and
risk their savings to buy tools
which produce goods for every-
one. The savings used to buy
tools, and the tools themselves,
are often referred to as capital.
«
IT
But tools wear out. The farmer
must replace his worn out trac-
tor, the factory owners (share-
holders) must buy new machines.
They must be able to save some
of their earnings to do this. But
in recent years unwisely levied
taxes have been taking money
which should have been spent
on tools. In effect, taxes have
been taking part of industry’s
productive equipment.
(P
Taxes which prevent saving to
replace worn out tools are bad
taxes. There should be enough
earnings left after paying taxes
to replace worn-out equipment.
Industry should also be able to
save something from earnings
to provide belter and more effi-
cient tools, which would raise
living standards still further.
factory extensions
Lower taxes (calculated to make
sufficient allowance for the
wearing out of tools of produc-
tion) would permit more sav-
ings and more tools—resulting
in more jobs, more homes and
more goods for everyone. In
the end, living standards de-
pend mainly on capital, in the
form of tools of production.
G.S.R. Co. Report
Points from Chairman's Address to Shareholders
• Record Australian raw sugar production.
(C.S.R. owns 7 of Australia’s 34 raw sugar mills).
• C.S.R. “Victoria” mill, Q’land, expanded.
• C.S.R. debenture issues over-subscribed.
(Two issues, total £7,000,000).
Australian raw sugar production in 1952
was a record, Mr. E. R. Knox, Chairman
of The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd.,
told shareholders at a meeting held on
the 10th June, 1953.
Mr. Knox said that the
Queensland production in
1952 was a record 902,000
tons of raw sugar. C.S.R.’s
four Queensland mills
made 172,600 tons of this
total. (C.S.R. owns 4of
Queensland’s 31 raw sugar
mills.)
Export of raw sugar
from the 1952 season will
total 453,000 tons.
If the present estimates
are realised ,a total of
about 1,200,000 tons of
raw sugar should be made
in Australia for the 1953
season. This is nearly 30%
more than the previous
record.
Raw sugar storage
and shipping
problems
Under present waterfront
conditions at Queensland
ports, the large 1953 crop
will create serious removal
problems.
Storage space for raw
sugar has been increased
substantially and plans
have been made to keep
the ports as fully covered
with shipping as is prac-
ticable. However, better
“turn-round” of ships and
continuity of work are
essential, if loss of sugar
is to be avoided.
Bulk handling of
raw sugar
Arrangements for receiv-
ing raw sugar in bulk at
our Pyrmont Refinery,
Sydney, are well advanced.
These have involved deep-
ening the refinery berth,
extending and strengthen-
ing the wharf, adapting
storage for bulk sugar, and
installing special handling
equipment such as elec-
trically operated grabs and
conveyors.
Enlargement of
Victoria Mill
The reconstruction and
expansion of our Victoria
raw sugar mill on the Her-
bert River, North Queens-
land, is practically com-
plete.
For much of the time
since the work of duplica-
tion commenced in 1950,
between 400 and 500 men
have been employed on
the job and the cost will
be about £2,600,000. The
additional mill capacity
and transport facilities will
be capable of handling an
extra 200,000 tons of cane.
This tonnage is expected
from the newly settled
10,000 acres of cane land
at Abergowrie which, until
recently, was virgin forest.
Victoria Mill will now be
able to crush at least
600,000 tons of cane in a
season, about the same
amount as our Lautoka Mill
in Fiji.
Considerable extension
of the capacity of both our
Macknade and Goondi
Mills, Q’ld., is in progress.
Fiji production
Our five Fiji mills pro-
duced 130,000 tons of raw
sugar in 1952, which was
a considerable improve-
ment on the previous year’s
production of 113,000.
Sugar sales in Aust.
Our total sales of sugars
and syrups in Australia
for the year ended 31st
March, 1953, were 439,000
tons.
Sugar sales in N.Z.
Sugar and syrup sales in
New Zealand for the years
ended 31st March have
been: 90,300 tons for 1951,
98,700 tons for 1952 and
83,600 tons for 1953. It
is expected that sales for
the current year will be
better than in the year just
ended.
Distilleries
Sales of industrial
alcohol from Pyrmont and
Yarraville Distilleries were
lower than in previous
periods. Recently, how-
ever, a recovery has taken
place and prospects for the
immediate future are good.
No difficulty in supplying
the market is anticipated.
Building Materials
Sales of our building
materials have been well
below the record level of
the year ended 31st March,
1952, except for those of
Timbrock, Acousti Tile
and Asbestos Fibre, which
have increased.
The steady increase in
sales of our Cane-ite Acousti
Tile shows the growing
demand for quietness in
commercial and industrial
buildings.
Production of blue as-
bestos fibre by our sub-
sidiary, Australian Blue
Asbestos Ltd., at Wit-
tenoom, Western Australia,
continues to increase
slowly and is now at the
rate of 4,000 tons per
annum.
Two officers of our
Building Materials Divi-
sion visited U.S.A., Canada
and England to obtain
information on the latest
developments overseas in
building and housing con-
struction, and in merchan-
dising methods.
The trend in building
practice abroad is towards
increased use of the types of
material which this Com-
pany manufactures.
C.S.R. Chemicals
Ply. Ltd.
C.S.R. Chemicals Pty.
Ltd. have taken over the
Australian Agency for two
plastics, “Breon” (poly-
vinyl chloride) and “Dis-
trene” (polystyrene). The
manufacture of acetic an-
hydride was successfully
put into operation at the
Rhodes chemical factory.
This makes Australia inde-
pendent of outside sources
for this chemical, until
now mainly imported from
dollar areas.
Construction work on
the other sections at
Rhodes is practically com-
pleted and manufacture of
cellulose acetate is about
to commence. This pro-
duct will be the starting
material for making acetate
rayon yarn by Courtaulds
(Australia) Ltd.
Chairman’s
Address
Printed copies of Mr.
Knox’s full address to
shareholders are avail-
able on application to
The C.S.R. Co. Ltd., 1
O’Connell St., Sydney,
or any Branch.
Effect of taxation on production and
the standard of living
The standard of living
of any community is deter-
mined principally by pro-
duction per head. Various
factors can assist, such as
bountiful seasons, efficient
management, increased in-
dividual effort. But more
and better tools of pro-
duction are the dominating
factors. Tools in this sense
are invested capital —trans-
lated into machines, fac-
tories, and raw materials.
Give a man the right
machine and he may pro-
duce 10 times as much as
with an outdated machine,
or possibly 1,000 times as
much as with his hands.
Invested capital is the
vital link between know-
ledge and effort on the one
hand and higher living
standards on the other. In
Australia and New Zea-
land the method of taxing
income pays no regard to
the fall in the value of
money and to the fact that
companies must accumu-
late adequate funds to re-
place wearing-out assets.
Our system not only taxes
as presumed profit much
that is not real economic
profit, but also taxes it at
very high rates. It eats
into the capital resources
of industry and so reduces
productivity.
The investment of capital
in productive equipment is
subject to the hazards of
inflation, to inadequate
depreciation allowances,
sometimes to bureaucratic
and unimaginative price
and profit control, and to
taxation that can fairly be
called punitive. C.S.R.’s
Board has always taken the
view that we should have
faith in the development
and eventual soundness of
the countries in which we
operate; that reason will
prevail on such questions
as depreciation allowances,
taxation rates and price
fixing. The time, however,
•is overdue for evidence
that Governments are
going to act accordingly.
Two dividends
for community
It is often overlooked
that there are two divi-
dends from capital invented
in tools of production.
One is profit to the owners
of the capital and the other
is increased production
from each man working,
and these two dividends
together are the sources of
higher real wages and of
higher standards of living.
If the first dividend, rea-
sonably encouraging profits,
is prevented, there will be
no capital expansion and,
therefore, no second divi-
dend. The country can only
obtain from industry that
productivity, and, therefore,
those living standards, that
its policies towards profit,
taxation, and capital allow.
Debentures over-
subscribed
The amount o£ finance
required for new fac-
tories, for the expansion
of existing ones, and for
working capital, has been
greatly increased by the
severe fall in the value of
the £• Additional funds
have been obtained by
issue of debentures.
We have made two
issues of 5% Registered
Mortgage Debentures:
the first of £4,000,000 in
September, 1952, and the
second of £3,000,000 in
April, 1953. Both were
over-subscribed.


r\
k
n
£y
ft
a
v •'
2b
f . • the latest addition to the r
l Electric Dry Shavers ... the beautif&uti
instruments that are designed to give
fsmooth , efficient
perfectly synchronised to give you
shoving smoother then you've ever
thought possible. Two twin bladei
glide easily, smoothly over your
face and make shaving a real
pleasure. 240 volt A.C./D.C.
d
Housed In a handsome, grained leather pre-
sentation case with rich, red silk and plush
linings, the TWIN FOUR makes a gift all men
applaud. Choose a TWIN FOUR now as your
faithful companion or for that special occasion
gift
TO/83.49
ROUS
RAZOR
cm*
KEEP FIT
the UNIA WAY
Wear the light
lINIA BELT
and remove this Danger curve
Your abdominal organs will be
well supported,your carriage light
and elastic. You will gain in health
and appearance. The LINIA BELT
will reduce your measurements
by several inches without revealing
that you wear a belt. Send for
illustrated free booklet, or call
and try on the Belt.
Manufactured in Australia by
J. ROUSSEL of Paris Pity. Ltd.
84 Collins St., MELBOURNE, C.l
W. H. INSON
that anyone caught snooping
around his property could ex-
pect trouble, and he was a little
surprised when nobody seemed
impressed. Raising his voice a
little —it was knock-off time,
nearly, and a group of them
were hanging around the tri-
cycle shed, waiting to go home
—he said that applied to anyone,
and he didn’t care how big the
- was, either. He might be
small, he added, but he
had ways of f cutting big s
down to his own approximate
height. Breathing hard, he sur-
prised an exchange of sly grins.
Perplexed, he went home and
worried about it; Billy was the
worrying kind. Could it be that
they didn’t believe him, he
wondered? Had he been in-
sulted? He was very grim and
uncommunicative for the next
week or so, at work, but,
although he watched suspici-
ously, no one provoked him
sufficiently to justify him in
“knocking his block off.” His
ability to do this he never
doubted. He didn’t seriously
think the others doubted it,
either. Although he wasn’t a
fighting man, really, looking
down on pul>backyard fighting
as much as he disapproved of
drink, and bad women, and all
the other vices he had no taste
for or couldn’t afford, he was
conscious of his strength and
the quickness of his movements,
and he knew any man working
with him would naturally; take
these qualities into consider-
ation. Looking the other
fettlers over in his private, bel-
ligerent way, Billy couldn’t see
any of them giving him much
trouble in a rough-and-tumble.
He wasn’t a fighting man, as
he said, with that roughshod
modesty that is no modesty, but
in his heart he knew he could
fight. He had proved it.
But all this time Billy had
never seen Dennis. Not being a
drinking man was one reason
for this omission, of course, in-
evitably limiting his social con-
tacts in a place like the Hollow.
Billy’s contacts were pretty
limited, in any case. He had
little in common with the other
fettlers, and less with the towns-
people. He was fiercely un-
happy. But he was also a
worker, and in the long summer
evenings, and long after dark,
weekends and all, he toiled
savagely on his few unrewarding
acres, which weren’t his, really,
but Emily Slattery’s, and tended
his stock.
He was more at home with
animals than with humans. He
assaulted the noxious weeds, the
burrs and thistles and briars,
bit by bit, wearing them down,
and in no time he had a garden,
carting water for it in kerosene
buckets from a dam which
Emily Slattery, rather surpris-
ingly, had had sunk a couple of
years back. He tackled Emily
about the fences, and Emily,
who was good-natured, agreed
to supply the posts and wire if
Billy did the work. Billy did.
r T'HEN, at a cattle sale, he met
Dennis face to face. Or
rather, shoulder to shoulder.
Or, perhaps, more accurately,
head to shoulder, because Billy’s
head just about reached Dennis’s
shoulder.
At the Hollow, where they
don’t keep many cattle, anyway,
they sell all the beasts in one
yard, bringing them in as re-
quired from subsidiary yards,
and letting them loose, when
sold or passed, among the spec-
tators. Where they are re-
drafted, or escape, with a fine
flourish of whips, swearing, and
towers of fine red dust.
Billy, as was his habit, had
bored in early, placing his elbows
on the thick wood rail and
studying each beast intently;
not that he had any intention
of buying or of selling either
of his two cows in the near
future just on general prin-
ciples, a kind of business-like
pleasure.
Some time during the selling
of Mrs. Moffitt’s roan cow,
which wasn’t-as old as spec-
tators hinted —“look at her
elder” —Billy became aware of a
mass, a formidable weight,
squeezing him into the post on
his left. Looking up quickly he
saw he was being leant against,
almost hemmed in, by a man of
unnatural length and breadth.
The man was about forty,
dressed in a collarless pink-
striped shirt, and sagging, baggy
trousers with cuffs like stained
wool, under which a new pair
of elastic-side boots showed,
small and incongruously neat.
What annoyed Billy was the
fact that the man seemed un-
aware of his presence.
“Git over,” Billy snarled, giv-
ing the man’s vast side a dig.
The man ignored him. Draught-
horses had done that to Billy,
leaning their weight on him
when he was shoeing them with
the same air of bland unconcern.
“Hey, you!” Billy roared,
jabbing furiously.
Then he found himself look-
ing up into a pair of light-blue
eyes set in an unsmiling hard
red face. There was a long
pause.
“All right, mate,” the stranger
said at last. “Don’t do your
block.”
The weight was released, and
there was a stir, a sigh, among
the onlookers. The auctioneer
went on with the sale of Mrs.
Moffitt’s cow.
Billy wasn’t surprised to learn
that the man was Dennis
Slattery; he had half-expected
it. But whenever he saw Dennis
after that he felt a half-suffo-
cating fury, a rage against the
man’s bulk, as much as anything
else, which he could hardly
suppress. Dennis was larger
than any man had a right to be,
Billy felt, and he looked at him
coldly, measuring him, as an
axeman looks at a tree.
The only other man in the
district who approached Dennis
in stature was the local con-
stable, and he was several
inches shorter. On the other
hand he was onlf in his
twenties, a fair-haired, pleasant
young man with a chest like a
gorilla, who had played foot-
ball against the Englishmen.
When the constable chipped
Dennis one Saturday afternoon,
outside the store, for parking
his car at a prohibited angle,
Billy, who was just coming out
with an armful of parcels,
stopped. He didn’t know why,
exactly: but Dennis had been
drinking, and everyone said
there was trouble when he had
been drinking.
Billy hoped there would be.
But although the constable, his
face flushing a little as he be-
came aware of the crowd
watching, spoke with a louder
authority than was necessary,
Dennis only smiled pleasantly.
“You’re quite right, constable,”
he said agreeably, in his soft,
surprising voice.
The constable was a good-
tempered man. But the kind of
silent stare the Hollow special-
ises in can be unnerving, in the
mass. Even the women had
given up all pretence of looking
in the windows and minding
their babies. The street was one
prolonged scrutiny.
“Well, get a move on, man,”
the constable said roughly.
“Shift it.”
“Anything you like,” said
Dennis softly, smiling, and made
a gesture with his left hand. The
constable looked awfully sur-
prised, stricken, then fell in a
dark-blue heap, the silver
buttons of his uniform shining
brightly in the merciless after-
noon sun. Still smiling, Dennis
walked through the laneway
made for him in the silent
crowd towards the hotel.
A T first Billy was sure Dennis
had knifed the constable,
the blow had been so swift, so
brutally dramatic. The con-
stable was taken to hospital,
where it was discovered he had
a fractured jaw. In the mean-
time Dennis had been arrested
by the elderly sergeant, as tact-
fully as possible. He caused no
trouble. But Billy began to
understand something of the
hints, trailing into silence, the
odd respect and the odd pride,
concerning Dennis. He was
dangerous,
A city lawyer saved Dennis
from the worst consequences of
that assault. There were all
sorts of legal complications but,
although it cost Dennis a lot of
money, he didn’t go to jail. It
all boiled down to a question of
whether the constable had
pushed Dennis, and although
any number of people privately
swore he hadn’t, a number of
Slatterys publicly swore he had.
The constable’s memory had
been affected, perhaps; or per-
haps he was merely confused.
In any case the clever lawyer
tied him in thorough knots, so
that a doubt arose concerning
the constable’s sobriety, while,
by careful questioning, it ap-
peared that Dennis had acted in
an inoffensive manner until
assaulted. All of which con-
firmed Billy’s opinion that the
rich could get away with
murder. A poor man, now,
bashing a copper...
Billy was wont to tell tales of
police persecution, learnt at his
mother’s knee, so to speak.
But after this incident he was
inclined, more and more, to
remember “good coppers.”
Over »and above everything,
what stuck in Billy’s mind was
the naked unconcern of Dennis,
walking away from his victim,
like a tall dog leaving a
slaughtered sheep. Although
that wasn’t right, Billy thought,
his poor mind struggling for an
analogy. A dog might be fur-
tive, or cheeky; Dennis was
neither. It was that cold self-
sufficient quality, a kind of
savage aloofness, that set him
apart from ordinary men, and
although Billy had no name for
it, he hated it, as fervently as
GAMBLERS
How strange the night becomes
To our obliterated eyes
.When once-familiar paths
Assume such dark disguise
And all knowledge is the masked
Observe of being wise.
Our city for a penny
We tossed in play;
It rolled beneath a rock
So heavy arms cannot weigh
Against its mass or shift
Such grim mischance away.
Now where has our luck gone?
Into which cavernous door?
The lifts ply up and down
But blind eyes miss the floor.
Yet who, having squandered
riches.
Should grumble to be poor?
Alas my friend, we are broke
Though fortunate—lacking sight
We shall sit in the sun all day
Begging without despite
And stumble the altered street's
On our way home each night.
All good, keen-eyed people
May well pity our loss;
If we do not twist our pride
Who knows but wealth may cross
Our palms with a minted penny
For another toss.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.
SUN-ORCHIDS
What did they mean, those sky-
deep blue
sun-orchids thronging the gully’s
floor
beside the creek? ‘'Once fire swept
through
that place with all-devouring roar.
Where, over ash and mould, cold
rain
had raved and beaten and had
fled.
translucent tubers deep had lain
secret, unsummoned in their
earth-dark bed.
Surely they meant not less than
this:
they, from the all-devouring fire,
dark rain, in metamorphosis,
rose in a smoke-blue, pure desire.
n.s.w.
ROLAND E. ROBINSON.


YOU WILL GET A KEEN PRICE
from MOBILCO
• o-..
m
i
%
&
TRUCK TO SILO
FIELD BIN TO TRUCK
8 *
HEADER TRAILER TO TRUCK
n
/a
HEADER TRAILER TO FIELD BIN
.1
mm
mm
' r
saw
mm
MIEILCu
Double Purpose GRAIN AUGER ELEVATOR
This is the time to buy
a grain auger and most
keen farmers know it.
Bulk handling is a big
time and money saver.
So don't wait for the
rush and bustle of last
minute buying. Write to
Mobiico now for details
of what they have to
offer in up-to-date bulk
handling equipment.
Augers available from
14 to 40 feet in length.
The only Auger
with a bag and bale
elevator attachment.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 - - TELEGRAMS; MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
AGENTS - - - - * . - - - ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
fd
MOBIICO
any fairytale hero detested a
wicked giant.
Dennis, Billy learnt, very
seldom exploded into violence.
He listened eagerly to every-
thing he could hear about
Dennis now, with a fascinated
repugnance. So might a com-
panion of the round table,
bivouacking in enchanted coun-
try, listen open-mouthed to
gossip by the firesides of rela-
tives of a giant. His mind, all
the time, grappling with pro-
blems of strategy and tactics...
IF DENNIS had the exciting
role of hero and villain and
outstanding local heretic, com-
bined with the prestige of
mystery, Billy was his own hero,
and had no difficulty in fitting
himself into a heroic part.
Sometimes, alone with his pigs
and cows and Mum’s chooks,
he would hold long and fiery
conversations with all his op-
pressors. At other .times, catch-
ing sight of Dennis Slattery’s
huge figure slumped on the
light draught-horse he some-
times rode, measuring the
breadth of his shoulders and
remembering the inhuman power
and speed of that one blow, he
felt a thrill of fear.
To his surprise, too, he dis-
covered there were people who
liked Dennis.
Through the long violent
summer and into the rains and
the sudden green Billy worked,
as he said, like a slave: a slave
of the soil. A willing slave,
although he grumbled enough.
On his regular job he was less'
servile.
Gradually the little place, so
long neglected, took form, with
patched sheds, a proper cowbail
with a roof, a new fence. Billy
was particularly proud of the
fence. It was stout and true,
with strainer-posts which flat-
tered his fancy hugely, although
they had nearly killed him put-
ting them in, great brutes of
timber, sawn-off trees. Every-
one who saw them remarked on
them, and that pleased Billy.
The wires were strained up till
they fairly sang.
Odds and ends he picked up
here and there, bought at sales,
or found, or received as gifts.
People are mostly generous, in
deserving cases, and Billy was
never afraid to ask. He knew
he was deserving. His stock had
increased, with his poddy lambs
grown into fat long-tailed sheep,,
as inquisitive as all poddies, and
every now and again a new one
was added to his flock. Lively
little red-and-black spotted pigs
sported in the laneway, and ran
squealing to their black mothers
on the approach of strangers, and
fowls, black, red, white and
speckled, were everywhere. He
had long-legged little racehorses
of calves and, in the fullness of
time, he had a tiny field of oats.
They were in the flush of their
growth, soft and green and
lovely, the day Dennis Slattery
came down the lane with his
crossbred wethers. It was the
Friday afternoon before Dal-
gety’s sale, and it was raining, a
fine mist. Mrs. Billy heard the
shaking complaint of sheep,
growing and echoing, the bark-
ing of dogs and the distant snap-
ping of a whip. She ran to the
fence to watch,,a chaffbag over
her head. She led a dull life.
They poured down the lane, a
torrent of wraiths in the rain,
and Mrs. Billy had a moment’s
anxiety for the poddies. Billy
had warned her...
“A wet job, this, Mrs. Bower,”
a voice in the clouded heavens
said pleasantly.
Ti/fRS. BOWER was so startled
she tugged convulsively at
one side of her chaffbag and
got her head wet. She looked
up and saw a huge man on a
heroic horse looming out of the
misty rain. My hair must look
a sight, she thought irritably,
straw and feathers in it, no
doubt, from the bag, and all
mussed up. “Oh, I don’t
know,” she said coldly. “It’s
not heavy. Just a drizzle.”
The horseman urged his
mount closer, and she recog-
nised Dennis’s hard bony face
under the dripping hat. “Rain-
ing hard enough where I
brought these from,” he said,
“Get cold in the saddle.”
There was a pause, while Mrs.
Billy wondered uneasily if she
should offer him a cup of tea.
Billy was always going on about
him, but, then, Billy was usually
going on about something. Mrs.
Billy didn’t take too much
notice of him.
“See that cloud,” the big man
pointed. “Racing over there by
the hospital? They’ll catch that
rain out on the river. It always
does that round these parts
when it blows up from the
south-west in the morning. Goes
in a semicircle and misses here,
except for a few points. It did
that when I was a kid.”
“You’ve lived here a long
time, Mr. Slattery?”
“All my life.”
He slid into a more comfort-
able position, his elbow on the
big horse’s arched mane, his
feet deep in the stirrups. He
wore a long old yellow mackin-
tosh, cracked and muddy. He
jerked his head at the old house,
and Mrs. Billy took in the ragged
profile of broken nose and long
jaw.
“Lived here, too, me and
Emily and the old lady, after the
father died. Before that we
lived out a way. Had a hard
time, too, missus. No boots.”
He laughed softly, shaking in the
saddle. “Walked seven miles to
school and milked ten cows
first. The youngsters have it
easier nowadays.”
“My word they do,” Mrs.
Billy said. She liked this Dennis
Slattery. “Mine are always at
me for something. They’re not
satisfied with a couple of shil-
lings, either.”
“Billy’d be getting good money
on the railway, with overtime
and everything,” Dennis insinu-
ated.
“You’re not doing too badly
yourself, Mr. Slattery, by all
accounts, the woman returned
pertly.
Again the soft laughter. Ive
made a lot of money, Dennis
said simply. “Dealing, mostly,
I’ll make a lot more, too, if
things go on the way they are,
and if the taxation people leave
me alone.
“And no one to leave it to?”
Mrs. Billy said archly. She was
a fine-looking woman, m a
heavy-browed, full-armed way,
but when she felt at ease a warm
vivacity shone through her
slightly sullen darkness. Not
since she had come to the Hol-
low had she talked so freely to
anyone ; not for a long time had
her femininity sparkled so agree-
ably in the presence of a man.
Dennis laughed, and the horse
tossed his head impatiently,
jingling the bit, “Fair go,
missus. All you women are the
same, matchmaking and one
thing and another. Way you
go on you’d think a man wasn’t
right in the head if he didn’t
have someone to boss him. Then
you claim your men are help-
less without you. If you see
one running around Tree you
think it’s a shame, until some
woman clips his wings and
makes a tame rooster of him.”
She was not in the least
offended. “You never thought
of marrying?” She was dying
to know.
“Plenty of times.” His blue
eyes—which weren’t sinister at
all, but frank and friendly—
smiled into her warm dark ones.
“But I’ve always managed to
get out of it. Anyway,” he
shrugged and the rain flew off
him, “there’s plenty of time yet.”
She agreed, looking at him
thoughtfully. She and Billy had
married young, so, with what
seemed a lifetime of married life
behind her, she was still only
thirty. Poor Billy, she thought
in a startling aside; life had
been hard on him, too ; work-
ing before he had grown, and
with a wife and kids round his
neck before he was twenty. No
wonder... But this man was
forty, forty-five, and could still
say truly that there was plenty
of time.
Aloud she said gaily : “I
wouldn’t be so sure.”
HE was an extraordinary man,
she thought, calmly, from
the security of her marital state ;
which could be a weariness and
a burden, but was also a protec-
tion, saving her from losing her
head, like a silly girl. A girl
could, easily ; and older women,
less sensible than herself, A
man like this, so overpoweringly
masculine, and with that streak
of almost feminine sympathy in
him which she could sense,
which she had responded to at
once, without words, could be
(Continued on page 34)


Proved by test . . .
IMi,
m
Time-tested superiority of design
and construction! On-the-job tested
for strength and economy of fuel! Power-
ful enough for really heavy work, yet not so
heavy that transport becomes a serious problem!
These are the reasons why Ansaldo TCA7O fills
a wider range of applications than any other tractor.
The equipment available for Ansaldo TCA7O enables
it to undertake all classes of earthmoving, clearing,
logging, loading or belt work. Battleship-type hull construc-
tion in armourplate protects the engine, gearbox and transmission
from any possible damage by rocks, logs, and other heavy obstructions;
#and allows complete and easy accessibility for service and repairs.
f
df
4 cylinder, Alfa Romeo direct in-
jection diesel engine, maximum
drawbar horsepower 60 M.P.H. at
1,600 R.P.M. Fuel consumption 1.6
gallons per hour. Tank capacity 32
gallons. Full pressure, dry sump
lubrication. 5 forward speeds and
reverse Inertia starting.
■ • i
► J |
mMMbB»M
I
IB
*fr|
Hi
.
HKP
.--'flff;"'.
ill
if
ImbU
m
m
m
I?
ios .
■3
■
i ■
111
ii
■ .
.
■
: ZA
yO-
-
r .
■■
Sole Factory Representatives for Australia :
MATERIAL HANDLING PTY, LTD.,
61-65 Wentworth Ave., Sydney, N.S.W. MA 9141.
Distributors ;—■ r
DOMINION MOTORS, 52 William St.. Sydney. MA 9017.
BROWN & BUREAU LTD., Graham St., Port Melbourne. MX 2171.
CLYDE MOTORS, Onr. Grey & Glenelg Sts., Sth. Brisbane. L 1221
POWER PLANT LTD., 100 Currie St., Adelaide. LA 2111.
HUDSON TAYLOR & CO., 606 Murray St., Perth. B. 7908.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. ... 2/-
Yearly Subscription.. ~. 22/6
Death Notice
THOMAS HENRY WILLIAMS,
ex-M.L.A. for Upper Hunter in
First N.S.W. Labor Government
and President A.W.U. >
*‘Our Book is Closed. ,
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy booklet Looking Back by
McKenzie, being a history of the
early days of Stanley (Vic.).—5521.
To buy copy of Stars on the Sea
by F. Van Wyck Mason.—ss2o.
To buy copy of Bushman and
Buccaneer: Harry Morant: His ’Ven-
tures and Verses by “Frank Renar”
(Frank Fox).—5519.
To buy copy of “National Geo-
graphic Magazine” on ancient Meso-
potamia.—sslB.
Details of the career of the late
Arthur Boucicault, an Australian
newspaperman and publisher. (Reply
direct to Russell E. Smith, editorial
department, “San Diego Union,” San
Diego, California, U.S.A.)
To buy copy of Les Miserables by
Victor Hug 0.—5517..—5517.
To buy second-hand copy of The
Prose Works of Henry Lawson ■—
5516,
Information Sought
Buyers of battery and metallurgical
grades of manganese ore?
Battery grade: Metals and Ores
Pty., Ltd., 116 Bourke-road, Alex-
andria, is paying £l4 10s. per ton
f.o.r. any New South Wales railway
siding, on the weight received at
Sydney for ore assaying 75 p.c.
manganese dioxide. The price in-
creases by 5 p.c. for every 1 p.c. to
£ ( |7 for ore assaying 85 p.c. manganese
dioxide. The minimum acceptable
grade is 75 p.c., and there are
penalties for impurities. Metallurgical
grade: The B.H.P. Co., Ltd., P.O.
Box 196, Newcastle, purchases this
grade of ore. The company’s current
buying-price is £9 16s. per ton “de-
livered steelworks,” Newcastle, for
ore assaying 48 p.c. manganese. The
minimum acceptable grade is 45 p.c.,
and there are penalties for impurities
such as silica and iron. Other buyers:
Frank Hambridge Pty., Ltd., 22 Bridge-
street, Sydney, pays approximately
£l2 per ton f.o.r. for ore assaying
70 p.c. manganese dioxide; Derby
and Co. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., of Cowra
Chambers, Grenfell-street, Adelaide,
also buys manganese ore.
* * • *
How is it that the reproduction of
Streeton s “Land of the Golden
Fleece’’ in "Smike to Bulldog’ 1 ' differs
from the one in “Australian Land-
scapes in Miniature” ?
The reproductions of the “Land of
the Golden Fleece” are of the same
painting. The reproduction in Smike
to Bulldog is the same as that shown
in The Arthur Streeton Catalogue,
which at that time was in the posses-
sion of the artist. It is understood
that Streeton altered the painting
approximately at the time it was
bought by the Australian Club, Syd-
ney. The reproduction on the frontis-
piece of Australian Landscapes in
Miniature is the painting as it is now,
after the alterations Streeton made
to it. A smaller painting, with the
same title and most likely the sketch
lor the larger work reproduced, is
shown in The Arthur Streeton Cata-
logue as being in the possession of
Dr. O. Paul.
* % * *
(1) How do astronomers find the
distance of the moon from the earth ?
(2) How do they arrive at the size
of the moon ? (3) I have noticed
that the moon appears to be higher
in the sky in winter than summer; as
I suppose it revolves around the
earth's equator should not the reverse
be the case?
(1) The distance of the moon is
found by triangulation in a manner
similar in principle to the way in
which surveyors find the distance of
inaccessible objects on the earth. The
angles at the end of a baseline of
known length are measured and the
distance can then be computed. The
main difference is that in the case of
the moon a very long baseline must
be used. One which has been used
has its ends at the observatories of
Greenwich and the Cape of Good
Hope. (2) When the moon’s distance
is known its size can be calculated
directly from its angular diameter.
(3) The full moon is always* opppsite
in the sky to the sun; it does not
revolve around the earth’s equator
but follows more nearly the plane
of the ecliptic, therefore the full
moon is high in the sky when the
sun is low.
• * * * *
Best way to lure a dingo into a
trap? How to lay poison baits?
Drag a trail of meat or entrails
along a line of set traps, and where
a trap has been set brush lightly over
the earth covering the plate. A
freshly-shot bird with strychnine
placed in the still-warm entrails 01
poison mixed with liquid fat placea
on pieces of paper set and scattered
along the route usually travelled by
dingoes will prove effective.
Brief Answers
H.McD.: A person 12 miles above
the earth would see no change in the
apparent size of the sun, but it would
appear brighter. Only about 70 p.c.
of the sun’s initial radiation reaches
the earth at sea-level even when the
sun is in the zenith and the sky is
clear....T.J.J.: Write to the editor,
“The Australian Encyclopaedia,” care
Angus and Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney... .C.S.: Write
Arthur Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-
street, Sydney... .D.D.: The batsman
is not out in average compilation
since he retired on the captain s
orders... .R.McD.: In commercial
practice the unwanted portion is
obliterated under a wash of Chinese
white and the print rephotographed.
Your best plan would be to black-
out the unwanted portion of the
negative, using Indian ink....H.L.:
J. H. Smyth Ply., Ltd., 114 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, will value your
stamps P. 8.: A woman becomes-
a de facto wife by living with a man
without going through the marriage
ceremony. She has no claim to an
allowance if a separation is effected,
but if there are children as a result
of the union they are entitled to be
maintained by their father A.D.:
Write the Folio Society, Room 90,
3rd Floor, Collins House, 360 Collins-
street, Melbourne.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
D.O’L.: Sing it to him R.C.D.:
The drunken dragon is sleeping it off
in the cells W.A.H.: “You will
note that the initial letters of each
line read downwards spells Elizabeth.”
So it does, by Jove! R.C.: They
just manage to jog along J.T.;
All right, let us call it quits
H.G.: Sorry, but they are already a
drug on the market Many
years ago a Bulletin poet—H. C.
McKay—did that style of verse very
much better J. 8.: You will have
to think of something more striking
than “Australia, land so great and
free; the land for you, the land for
me”... .L.R.8.: Next time you feel
like that on a Sunday morning we
suggest that you remain in bed....
P.S.L.: Not keen on that kind of
moralising J.M.: We shall try to
struggle along without it F.W.S.:
Well, having got that off your chest,
you can now sit back and relax
E.M.R.: We admire the sentiment,
but not the poetry,.. .H.D.: Under-
weight H.T.M.M.: Okay, set it to
music, but don’t play it outside our
window C.J.D.: It seems to us to
be a small thing to get all worked
up about... .S.L.S.: Sorry, but it is
below standard R.E.8.: Tis but a
feebly shining m00n...’ .G.C.: It cried
to go# back A.W.A.: Finished on
the outer L. 8.: Its long journey
was all in vain H. 8.: A fair
sample of what we do not want
J.T.L.: Returned it with the hope
that, your broken heart will heal
E.M.: Put it aside until next year.
D.C.: You might as well have
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
done it in prose W.R.: “The
Gold Watch” doesn’t tick L.P.:
Not at home to “The Visitor”
G. : Write in your own words of
what you’ve seen and known....
8.M.: Send it to “Chatterbox”
N.S.P.: Written fifty years ago it
might have been deemed suitable for
a schoolgirl’s album A.S.: “Come
with me to where the chill winds
blow.” We prefer to sit in the office
beside the radiator.. ..R.D.: Not here
will you murmur to fairies in the
garden J.T.: “Throw the blessed
thing in the wastepaper basket if it’s
no good.” Threw it F.W.: Poem
about a crook is crook T.S.C.:
Not much profit in those large, vague
generalisations D.F.: “Awake 1
Arise, Australia!” is not so much a
poem as an alarm-clock M.F.:
Estimable opinions in indifferent
verse H.G.: Among all those
noble sentiments and conventional
poeticisms it’s hard to get a glimpse
of the: landscapes you’re trying to
describe.... R. 8.: Who she is and
what she does are mysteries
H. : Is that old bush cottage,
with roses round the door, to
let, by any chance? F.A.F.: “1
received the idea from watching a
sunset.” Alas, so many others have
watched the sunset and received
the same idea T.: Nice study;
might do elsewhere... .N.D.: You
didn’t know what to do with too
much of it.i. .E.W.C.: Not ours.
....G.G.: Weak end.... S.S.: Too
long a lead to tod Httle Z.V.W.:
Hard to say which has the longer
pedigree: the story about the out-
back character who suspected until
the last page that his mate had
double-crossed him, or the story about
the miner who quarrelled with his
mate over a girl, and was saved by
the mate in an accident M.H.:
Waste of time sending us a play
G.F.S.: Fabulous.... R.F.M.: You
see a drought as we might imagine
a thirst D.N.; We used to have
a Caveman’s Entrance, but it’s been
bricked-up E.V.H.: Not for us.
. ...W.D.: Too grim... .P.H.N.:
Highly emotional 8.D.: You cover
everything. except, ’•quite properly,
two sides of the paper 8.K.:
Sorry, but they are headed back to
the valley E.A.8.: We are in
entire agreement with the last two
lines G.L.P.: It merely made us
sleepy G.R. : It says nothing new.
... .P.E.L.H.: ’Twas hard reading.
M.M.: Well, that is a dream that
will not come true... “O
wilt thou not come and shed a tear
with me?” We wilt not K. 8.:
Cannot decide whether it is “a bene-
diction, requiem or curse”; anyway,
it is poor poetry.


Public Notice
ESTATE of LAURA HANNAH RICHARDS,
Deceased, formerly of Orroroo, South Aus-
tralia.— Any person knowing the where-
abouts of any children of the following
marriages are requested to communicate
with ELDER’S TRUSTEE AND EX-
ECUTOR COMPANY LIMITED, 37-39
Currie Street, Adelaide:—
1. HENRY THOMAS (known as HARRY)
SELWAY (died in Western Australia
in 1933), who married ELIZABETH
BAKER in Melbourne approximately
60 years ago.
2. FREDERICK EDWARD SELWAY
(who died in Western Australia in
1931), who married ANN!A JANE
LOUGHHSAD at Adelaide in 1878.
Also any person knowing whereabouts of
VICTOR EMANUEL FREDERICK KAPP
LER, who possibly resided in Melbourne
approximately 14 years ago, and who at
one stage lived at Lightning Ridge.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO GEORGE ARTHUR WILLIAMS late
of 14 Kurrajong Street Sutherland W the
State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that SHEILA MARY WILLIAMS
has filed Petition in Divorce No. 3037
of 1962 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the First day of September
1963 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MeCAW, JOHNSON
& Co.. Solicitors, of 75-77 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—l. DOUGHAN. Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOHN MORELAND O’REILLY late
of St. Peters in the State of New South
Whies.-—TAKE NOTICE that JOYCE
FLORENCE O’REILLY has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2120 of 1953 on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish tb defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Court Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 7th day
of September 1953 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from ADRIAN
C. R. TWTGO, Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh'
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce^
TO GERTRUDE ELLEN EARL.—TAKE
NOTICE that WALTER CHARLES EARL
has filed his Petition in Divorce No. 1008
of 1953 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If yon wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court Sydney by the 34th
day of August 1953 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
CHRISTOPHER LIGUORI SHEEHY,
Solicitor, of 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Australasian Subscription Rates
12 months , . . . ..£ll6 0
6 months . . . . . . 18 6
3 months . . . . . . 9 6
Post-free whether ordered direct from Box 2521, G.P.0.,
Sydney, or through any newsagent.
Australian Historical Sketches
Macquarie 's
Lonely Tomb
By M. H. ELLIS
IN February, 1822, Governor
Lachlan Macquarie sailed
away from New South Wales
in the good ship Surry after
twelve years in office. He had
first seen the colony, fresh from
its insurrection against Bligh, an
untidy camp and jail, dispirited,
hungry, disorderly and torn by
faction. He left it, after under-
going a tempestuous farewell, a
dependency of great promise, its
outlands explored, roads built,
public buildings a matter for
pride, revenue growing, the
wool industry established and
permanency and neatness every-
where. Before his time there had
been nothing but dilapidation
and unrest.
His name appeared in N. S.
Wales and Tasmania on streets,
on buildings, on geographical
features. His. fame as an Aus-
tralian was secure, but not his
future, since 12 years of arduous
duty had brought him ruin
instead of reward. When he had
been appointed in 1809 be had
intended to retire in a year or
two from command of his regi-
ment to manage his estates in
Mull, to build himself a manor-
house and to spend in ease and
dignity the rest in his old age
which he had earned by 20-odd
years of hard work and saving
in the Army. But during his
long term in New South Wales
he had left the management of
his properties in Mull to others,
and they had not proved very
good stewards at a time of
decline in the Highlands and
Western Isles.
He reached home to find little
to make him happy in his native
land. He had as yet no pension.
His salary in New South Wales
had gone in keeping up the
status of his Governorship,
in providing dinners for up to
150 guests, some his mortal
enemies, at regular weekly
intervals, and the balls that were
expected of a Viceroy. He was
62 years of age, weighed down
with infirmities. His wife, as
ever, was far from well. He had
a son to educate.
And after a holiday on the
Continent, his first during his
whole official career, save for a
few weeks nearly 30 years before
in Bengal, and a fortnight here
and there, he virtually was called
upon to begin life anew in his
little island home of the north —
in the small house which stood
on his estate on remote Mull,
near the fresh-water Loch Ba.
He was heartbroken by the
nature of the report of Com-
missioner Bigge on the colony.
He was in 1823 in debt to his
bank ; so poor in fact that he
and his family travelled to Scot-
land in a Leith smack, “not
being able to afford going by
land.” They arrived to find the
late winter korms in pro-
gress, the weather so wild that
their stores and belongings—and
what was most important, their
coals —could not be delivered.
They were compelled to be the
guests of a Campbell relation for
two months before they could
settle down into their own home.
The emancipists of New South
Wales the following week were
celebrating Foundation Day,
1824, with their new song:
Macquarie was the prince of men,
Australia’s pride and joy.
We ne’er shall see his like again;
Bring back the old Viceroy.
But the “Old Viceroy” himself
shivered in his Mull homestead.
All the pomp of his satrapy had
ended for ever. In his tem-
porary mansion there was “not
one dry room.” He had no
private study, but must write his
letters in the little dining-room,
Sometimes the howling, rain-
soaked Mull gale swept in and
plucked the fire from the grate,
And his old malarial affections,
which had nearly killed him even
in sunny New South Wales, rose
up and haunted him.
Nobody ever heard him com-
plain. He did not swerve from
the duties of the estate. He went
about in the mud, superintending
the planting of trees, laying out
woods and fields, planning a
new house. He rode daily to
Salen, the village which he had
THE MACQUARIES' TOMB
founded nearly 20 years before,
to sit as' justice on the little
Bench whose duties he took “just
as seriously as -the great affairs
of New South Wales.” But as
spring approached he seemed to
be failing, and on March 28, the
birthday of his son, he suddenly
called his wife and boy to the
shore of Loch-na-Keale and
rowed them out to a distant
point. And there, leaning on his
oars, he swept a hand f round and
said to his son: “My reason for
bringing you this far is to show
you the extent of your estate.”
And then he rowed sadly and
silently home, and next morning
set off on a round of visits.
He saw his relatives and every-
body for whom he had an affec-
tion. He went to Tobermory and
paid all his debts. He settled all
his business and returned his
calls of civility. And, finally, he
made clear to his wife all his
plans for the future ordering of
his estate, and at last set off with
his faithful slave-boy, George,
whom he had bought in Cochin
as a child in 1794, and who had
become his faithful attendant
ever since, to go to London to
negotiate for his pension and
attend to some other affairs.
When he left he burst into
tears, something utterly unlike
his habit. And then, from the
top of a hill which looks out
on Loch-na-Keale, his son
watched him ride away, never
turning his head, as if he were
afraid to look back.
He travelled to London in the
Leith packet, which made him
“most heartily sick of all steam-
boats” —it was his first experi-
ence of them; but he reached
London safely on April 24, and
took modest lodgings at 345. a
week at 49 Duke-street m St.
James’s. *
For a time he seems to have
been more happy. He saw all
his old Indian friends. He ven-
tured out to dinners and to
routs. His pension was fixed at
last at £lOOO a year-he never
drew it. He was in good spirits
at the last, able to laugh a little
at Lady Castlereagh, on whom
he called. He took his leave of
the Duke of York and then the
King. But as he prepared to set
out for Mull he caught a chill
after attending an evening
festivity. He wrote next day the
last entry in the diaries which
he had opened first in November,
1787:
June 11: Between 2 and 3 o’clock
I awoke very i 11.... I sent imme-
diately for Doctor Andrews.
And though he rallied and
went abroad in the Park in a
glass-coach which he was “so
extravagant as to hire,” he was
soon in bed in his meagre lodg-
ing, and his faithful Elizabeth
and his son were hastening from
Scotland in dread of what they
might find.
Elizabeth knew that all was
lost so soon as she saw him,
though he was full of cheerful-
ness, and insisted on getting up
to write letters of introduction
for going out to India.
On July 1, 1824, kissing his son
and patting the cheek of his old
friend. Sir Charles Forbes, and
murmuring “Fine fellow! Fine
fellow!” he presently passed
away without a groan or struggle
of any kind.
The Duke of Wellington and
Bathurst sent their empty
carriages to Hermitage wharf to
see him off to his last resting-
place. The Duke of Argyll, the
Marquis of Breadalbane, Sir
Alured Clarke (who had been a
commander-in-chief in the India
of his day), came with many Iff
his old Indian friends to fare-
well him in person.
Elizabeth took him back to
Mull, and there laid him in his
tomb with his little daughter’s
coffin on his breast. And, there,
presently, his wife and only son
joined him.
Soon there was little left to
remember him by. His burial-
place in the nether recesses
of Mull is far from the ordinary
haunt of the tourist. It was many
a year before more than an odd
wandering Australian had a
chance ,to glimpse the ornate
inscription which noted the
“wisdom, liberality and benevol-
ence of all the measures of his
administration,” and proclaimed
him “truly deserving the appella-
tion by which he has been dis-
tinguished—The Father of Aus-
tralia.”
His relatives died or went
away. The poor remains of his
estate were dissipated by law-
suits among his collaterals and
heirs. The trees grew tall around
his resting-place, and now and
then one fell across it.
When, 115 years after he had
died, Mr. A. E. Heath, New
South Wales Agent-General, a
man of historical mind, came to
hear that the tomb was dilapi-
dated and a sad discredit to this
country, it was a wonder that
anything remained of it. Only
the sturdiness of the stone of
which the little building was con-
structed had saved it from
complete ruin, and it seemed that
it could not last very long.
It is situated in a woodland
nearly 600yds. from the main
road between Salen and lona
ferry, and about three miles from
-Salen across the neck of Mull,
in an almost circular enclosure
of about a quarter of an acre,
bound in by a stout stone-wall
4ft. to sft. high, with a wrought-
iron gate. Thirteen trees —elms,
planes, firs—have grown inside
the enclosure, the largest about
10ft. in girth. The deciduous
trees make a seasonal litter, and
it is a region in which rhodo-
dendrons are apt to grow like
weeds. While the timber gives a
picturesque setting for the
mausoleum which stands in the
Centre of the “close,” it is a
constant danger to the building.
It is a thing of pleasing pro-
portions, 19ft. long and 13ft.
wide, of plain freestone, the side-
walls 2ft. 6in. thick, flags bedded
in concrete and masonry sup-
ported by a masonry arch. The
inscription is framed in the north
doorway; the coat-of-arms of
the family of Macquarie is
carved on the south doorway.
Even over a century of high-
land weather has failed to wreck
this last house of the Mac-
quaries; but it was clear to Mr.
Heath that it would need both
immediately substantial repairs
and constant maintenance if it
were to survive, as survive he felt
it must out of tribute to a basic
founder of civilisation in Aus-
tralia, He at once took steps to
initiate a fund in New South
Wales, but before anything
concrete could be arranged the
war came and the immediate
neighborhood of the tomb be-
came engulfed in a closed-off
war area.
The matter was taken up again
at the end of the war. The old
Macquarie estate was then
owned by the Countess of
Yarborough, who at once agreed
to help by making over the
enclosed plot of land round the
mausoleum to an Australian
trust in perpetuity. This arrange-
ment has not been disturbed by
the sale of the property to the
Hon. John Skeffington, heir to
the Earl of Massereene and
Ferrard, who has shown the
same spirit of co-operation.
Mr. Heath and his friends have
raised a fund of about £7OO,
which is only enough to provide
for immediate repairs that are
being carried out under the
supervision of the Scottish
National Trust and its agent, the
Argyll County Council. The
work was put in hand a year
ago. The Old Viceroy would be
delighted to know that the bon-
tractor was a member of his own
old clan, Mr. John Macquarie,
of Salen. There is still much to
be done and some funds to be
provided for regular overhaul
and maintenance and disposal of
timber, regular cleaning-up of
the annual leaf-fail and other
perennially arising incidentals.
But the many donors to the fund
h a ve the satisfaction of knowing
that they have proved that Aus-
tralians are not so neglectful of
their history or so ungrateful to
those great figures of the past
who made its beginnings as
sometimes appears.
They have saved the tomb
from inevitable destruction.
Macquarie’s permanent resting-
place on his own lands has been
assured of eternal reservation
to the uses of himself and his
little family, which is the thing
that he would have most wished.
A man of simple wants in
material things, he valued
immortality.


c
HeftAltfi
MWM-.
••■•- v:
WITH PALMOLIVE BRILLIANTINE
FOR THAT NEWLY BARBEREO LOOK
■
9
%
m.
m
SiSS
A touch of Palmolive Brilliantine, a
flick of the comb, and your hair is
neat and tidy for the day. You
will have no more worry about
that "plastered-down” look. Palmolive
Brilliantine is a light, delightful oil
that gives the hair a light gloss, and
puts you at the head of the well-
groomed men!
PALMOLIVE
BRILLIANTINE
For Thai Successful
Well-groomed Look
FB4/121
SNIVd MIVWIHHU
DNllddiaO
quickly eased with
mmm
trade MARKI
Proved by Clinical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
0 During the past five years, Dolcip has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
• DOLCIN is non-toxic.
• DOLCIN is prescribed by the medical profession.
• DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years.
• 1,100,000,000 tablets have been administered throughout
the world.
• DOLCIN is easy to take In tablet form.
• DOLCIN is obtainable from your chemist.
V *
• *
at I*** 1 ***
neoM
TIC*
act
jRIfW
MB* oo
>*2
o*l^
tlAB^
»K*
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLCIN
Informative literature on Dolcin
will be sent on request to Dolcin .
(Australia) Pty, Ltd., Box 7552,
G.P.0., Sydney.
D 4.2
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Racing at Canterbury Park
indicated that Sydney-trained
horses hold a strong chance of
pulling off the Doomben (Bris-
bane) double early next month.
Karendi is a shorter-priced
favorite for the “Ten Thousand”
following his brilliant success in
the Canterbury Flying at odds-
on, and Alinga, following his
win in the Birthday Handicap,
may challenge Hydrogen for
Cup favoritism. Alinga was the
medium of one of the biggest
plunges on an ordinary subur-
ban handicap for several years ;
backed down from B’s to 5 to 2.
Jockey Maynard did his job to
such purpose that Alinga’s time,
1.51, was a 9fur. record for the
course. Alinga carried 8.3 and
drops to 7.4 in the Doomben
Cup, in which Hydrogen has 9.6.
Hydrogen might have the job
ahead of him to concede 301 b.
to Alinga, who will be suited by
the Doomben track. Karendi
carried 8.4 at Canterbury and
drops to 7.10 in the big Brisbane
sprint.
Pale General, Malt Maid and
Highlea, placegetters in the 6fur.
Doomben Flying, are engaged in
the “Ten Thousand” at the same
track on July 4. Pale General
scored by a nose in a photo-
finish. From the angle of the
big race, Malt Maid’s effort was
best of the placed horses. She
was 14th at the half-mile and
still well back in the field at the
home turn. Malt Maid carried
8.4 and drops to 7.10 in the
longer race, so appears to have
a good show. Highlea carried
8.2 and drops to 7.6. Kashmir,
in fine form and winner of the
June Handicap, had 8.10 and
drops to 8.2 in the Doomben
Cup. He might be the best of
the Brisbane challengers to
Hydrogen and Alinga.
New Zealand bred Wirwil,
after working like a winner at
Rosebery, opened his account in
a 3-year-old Maiden at Wyong.
He is a smart type and could
score in better company. Wir-
wil’s sire, Royevrus, has an
interesting background. His
progeny include Star Performer,
a winner of Auckland R.C.
Hep., l{m., and several other
middle-distance events, and Big
Notes, winner of a number of
sprints. Royevrus won nine
races over distances to and
£4745 in stakes. He was beaten
a head in the 2m. Auckland
Cup. His sire, Surveyor, is well
known here. He won 23 races
and £14,320 in stakes and on
one occasion ran 4fur. in 45|, a
New Zealand record. Royevrus’s
dam. Desert Fire, was got by
Diacquenod (imp.) from Cross
Fire by Camp Fire. Wirwil is
one of Sid Nicholls’s team.
Wynvale, a consistent two-
year-old in Victoria, and a
country winner there, improved
on prior form to win the Second
Bournelield Park Handicap at
Moonee Valley on Saturday as
favorite. Raced by his breeder-
owner-trainer, R. S. Fisher, Wyn-
vale is by Prester John (imp.).
Backers were also on the spot
in the First Two-Year-Old at
the Valley, the 7-to-4 favorite
Silver Crest winning easily. She
is an Attley filly from Belbina
by Gay Lothario (imp.).
Of the few progeny of locally-
bred Monogram tried on the
racing track one which gives
promise is the two-year-old colt,
Levardo, from Only Blue, which
won the Canterbury Maiden
well. Monogram raced in Syd-
ney a few seasons ago and in
addition to winning good races
was third in Concerto’s A.J.C.
Derby (1946) and second to
Titanic in the Epsom the follow-
ing season. Levardo’s dam is a
daughter of Brazen (imp.) and
Blue Puff by Seremond (imp.).
The colt was bred at Mirridong
Stud, Borenore (N.S.W.).
Crack Melbourne jockey
Williamson rode four winners at
Moonee Valley. Many jockeys
have ridden four and more
winners in an afternoon. Ted
McMenamin, prominent some
seasons back, and who was
equally at home over the hurdles
as on the flat, rode four winners
in one day on 12 occasions.
Country jockey J. Naughton
once rode 13 winners (11 in
succession) from 14 mounts,
while W. Cook rode five winners
from six mounts at Randwick in
March, 1951. On rare occasions
jockeys at meetings away from
the important centres have ridden
all winners at the fixture. Jack
Toohey rode seven successive
winners at Canterbury Park on
May 5, 1923. In Brisbane Bill
Briscoe has ridden five winners
in an afternoon on two
occasions, and four winners in
an afternoon on five occasions.
Jockey Briscoe returned to
Brisbane from Sydney because
he couldn’t get enough riding in
Sydney, where, until the last few
months, there’s been a surplus
of riding talent. Briscoe, highly
successful in Brisbane before
going to Sydney, soon got back
into form in Brisbane. At
Doomben last Saturday he won
on Depth Bomb and Gay Venice.
Gay Venice, by the way, is
raced by H. Hornery, who
trained horses in Sydney for some
time. Depth Bomb is a> two-
year-old gelding by Hangover
(imp.) from Moondani by Tor-
pedo.
Apprentices apparently “go the
feed-box” while in the Army for
compulsory training. Their
masters find that they put on
many pounds while in camp, and
some are not likely to last long
as apprentices because of this
sudden weight increase. It is not
unusual these days to see
apprentices on leave in uniform
at race meetings ; some change
from khaki to racing-silks to take
a mount or two.
• • • •
Though there seem to be more
horses in training than ever
before and dozens of rising two-
year-olds are being educated for
racing, nominations for the
important spring events in Mel-
bourne and Sydney dropped
sharply when taken this month.
Biggest falling-off was for classic
and semi-classic races. Entries
for some of them will not be
taken until later in the year, a
scheme which could be enlarged
upon. The “big four” of spring,
Melbourne and Caulfield Cups
and A.J.C. Epsom and Metro-
politan, attracted the best horses
in the land, but most of the
entrants won’t see the post. High
costs of racing have forced a
number of owners out of the
game, though others keep filling
the gaps. Rich stakeraoney is
always an attractive bait. To
start a horse, even in a minor
Saturday-afternoon event, now
runs into several pounds, and
ownership is steadily becoming
more costly.
Two Bells, first of the progeny
of the Nearco stallion Belvedere
to win a race in Australia, did it
at latest Kefabla Grange
(N.S.W.) fixture. A chestnut filly
she is raced by E. A. Coghlah
and trained by Jim McCurley at
Moorefield. Her dam, Duotetra,
was bred in New Zealand 10
years ago, and got by Nizami
(imp.) from Astarth by Chief
Ruler (imp.) from Hyades by
Hymettus (imp.). Nizami has
sired several good stayers. Bred
by F. W. Hughes Pty., Ltd., Two
Bells is a smart type and should
soon win in much better com-
pany. Belvedere (imp.), located
at Berambola stud (N.S.W.), was
a high-class two-year-old in
England. In one of his wins he
carried topweight of 9.7 and
scored in record time. He is
closely related to Zionist, winner
of the Irish Derby and runner-
up in an English Derby. Owner
Coghlan and trainer McCurley
won another race at Canterbury
on Saturday last with Poetess, a
sister to Trizami. She is another
of the Nizamis.
“A little boy has been found
in the St. Leger.” This is an
almost regular Saturday-after-
noon announcement at Sydney
races, and its frequency has
prompted many to suggest that
clubs refuse entrance to children
of tender age. This is done at
some courses, particularly at
some trotting fixtures. After all,
the race-track is not quite the
right environment for a
youngster.
Lightly raced mares and fillies,
some of which never had a win
in public, have thrown some of
the best winners. Denied was an
unimportant mare as mares go
because she wasn’t raced, but
her first foal, Taiyuan, is in win-
ning form in Newcastle and
scored there last Saturday in the
Juvenile Handicap. The colt is
by White Ensign (imp.) and cost
350 guineas as a yearling.
*9 * *
Bedser’s 14 wickets for 90 at
Trent Bridge practically equalled
Wilfred Rhodes’s 15 for 124 at
Melbourne in 1903-4 and Hedley
Verity’s 15 for 104 at Lord’s in
1934. Spofforth holds the record
for most wickets by an Aus-
tralian in an England-Australia
Test —the same figures as
Bedser —at the Oval in 1882.
Three Australian bowlers, Spof-
forth, Mailey and Noble, have
taken 13 wickets in the one
Test.
• • • •
Bedser now holds a record for
Test wickets by an English
bowler —196. Grimmett still
holds the Test record for all
bowlers —216. Englishman Syd
Barnes took 189, Tate 155,
O’Reilly 144. Hughie Trumble’s
tally of 141 came solely from
England-Australia Tests.
England last won a Trent
Bridge Test in 1930. Despite a
Bradman century (131) in Aus-
tralia’s second innings—the only
century of the match —Australia
finished 93 runs behind. A
couple of good doubles in the
game were Jack Hobbs’s 78 and
74 (it was his last Test series)
and Clarrie Grimmett’s 5-107
and 5-94. Australia won the
1930 Test series.
“K.R.”: The 1938 Test at
Nottingham was drawn, not won
by Australia (B. 17/6/’53).
Scores —England 8-658, closed ;
Australia 411 and, following on,
6-427 (Bradman 144 n. 0.),
♦ ♦ ♦
The Wallabies were beaten in
their South African first game,
by Natal, 15-14, a field goal by
S.A. cricketer Roy McLean being
the clincher. It was the open
type of game that suited the Aus-
tralians, who worn more than
their share of lineouts, but were
beaten 35-16 in the scrums.
Lack of a reliable goalkicker
may cost points. Nick Shehadie
was captain, team captain John
Solomon being off-color.
The Wallabies face a strenuous
programme, 25 games —four
“Tests”—in the 95 days from
today to September 26,
In Sydney R.U. unbeaten
Eastern Suburbs just managed
to down Eastwood, 8-6. In other
games University b. St. George
19-9, Gordon b. Drummoyne
14-10, Randwick b. Northern
Suburbs 11-3 and Manly b.
Parramatta 29-6.
* * ♦
Bad weather kept the crowds
away from V.F.L. football on
Saturday, and those who went to
see Geelong trounce St. Kilda
almost fainted when Saints led
at the last change. ’Twas then
Geelong shook off their lethargy
and went on to get 9.6 to 6.8.
Footscray, second on the
premiership list, stood frozenly
while South Melbourne ran up
11.6 to 5.13. Carlton just
shaded Fitzroy, 7.16-7.12, Col-
lingwood (9.9 to 7.6) beat Mel-
bourne, North Melb. (6.9 to 5.12)
just beat Richmond, and Essen-
don got 12.15 to Hawthorn’s
9.10.


Rehearsal off Jervis Bay
TOBRUK
TESTS HER TEETH
By J. E. MACDONNELL
SHE is, on paper, a de-
stroyer ; in size, armament,
power and equipment, she
ranks in the light-cruiser
class. Something upwards of
3000 tons ; a third of her length
all engines, the great turbines
whining and revving-up to an
output of 50,000 horsepower
(more than carrier Sydney); an
operations-room as large as a
carrier’s ; gun -turrets (not open
mountings) which at first glance
inside could be mistaken for
cruiser Hobart’s ; and radar! . • •
We joined her at Jervis Bay,
where, secluded and close to the
aircraft of the naval air-station
at Nowra, the long, squat-tailed,
raked-bowed craft was “work-
ing-up”—transforming her new
crew into a tightly-welded team
of automatic efficiency. For in
a matter of weeks she would be
in Korea, and her men were not
concerned whether the shells of
Communist shore-batteries were
dispatched legally or otherwise.
From the heights above J.B.
she looks like a model, smelling
her string of a cable on the
grey, sullen mirror of the sea.
Close alongside, her bridge
superstructure towering to the
huge gunnery-director above it,
she looks what she is—a big
brute of a ship, all grace and
guts.
In her wardroom a framed
photograph of Hec Waller (cap-
tain of destroyer Stuart at Mata-
pan and of cruiser Perth when
she went down under a swarm-
ing pack of Jap ships in the Java
Sea) looks down on a room
about the size of a large mess-
deck in his destroyer. The
wardroom is comfortable —and
wholly utilitarian. Not a scrap
of woodwork, except on the
mail-rack —all fire-resistant steel
and chrome. A photograph of
the Queen, donated by the “S.
M. Herald,” and a painting of
the ship at speed in a choppy
sea, are the sole furnishings.
Except, of course, for Susan
Hayward watching from the port
bulkhead.
For the next day, Monday, the
programme lists the forenoon in
harbor, slipping at five o’clock,
and meeting the two Tribals,
Bataan and Arunta, for night-
encounter exercises and starshell
firing. The gunner (lord of her
asdic sets, depth-charge-firing
Squid and 10 21-inch torpedo-
tubes) shows me round, I need
some* help.
Amidships, above the twin
banks of tubes, squat three
Bofors mountings—twin guns
which, when I left for the beach
in 1948, were being talked about
in the same way as that new
magic, radar, was in 1940. Now
here they were, huge squat
mountings, encased in armor-
plate, as wide almost as a 6-inch
turret.
A team of radar-boys was
testing one mounting’s sets. The
gun was in motion, quick, elec-
tronic jerks. There was some-
thing strange about the move-
ment, something right out of my
experience. Then I got it —both
barrels and the mounting were
moving; but the barrels were
elevating and training indepen-
dently of their carriage. Un-
canny.
A whirr, and a circular radar-
aerial begins spinning. Here is
the magic. This electronic eye,
shaking its head in searching
swings from side to side, con-
tacts an aircraft. And locks-on,
no matter what the target might
do. Automatically, the heavy
mounting follows; and auto-
matically, the banks of radar-
sets allow for lateral and vertical
deflection to counteract enemy
speed, own ship’s speed, time of
flight of the shells and other
little details. The ship could
be rolling gun’les under. The
barrels are not worried. Worked
by offset gyros operating
powerful recentring pumps, all
barrels are kept mathematically
level, stabilised. I understood
the quick, jerky movements of
the guns —they are capable of
training quickly enough, dragged
by their radar-set as though
attached by invisible wires to the
target, to follow a jet aircraft
crossing the line of fire.
Later, Tobruk opened fire on
a sleeve target with her six
stabilised Bofors and six single
Bofors. The mass of tracer fled
towards the target like sparks
blown from a couple of chim-
neys on fire. The target was
ripped and holed like a colander.
On the stubby quarterdeck,
below the after Bofors (most
officers now live forrard, close
to ffic bridge and their action-
stations), crouches a three-
barrelled weapon the Russians
would give their teeth to get a
close look at. The Squid.
Performance, and, especially,
method of control, secret. But,
it can be said, capable of pin-
point accuracy; fired, in effect,
by the submarine itself sending
back sound echoes ; hurling three
depth-bombs, heavier and more
powerful than War II charges,
right forrard over the bridge.
And, revolutionary though it is,
already obsolete. Having its
action described, one felt easier
about and sorry for those
reputed 350 Russian submarines.
There was another fire-control
instrument much talked-about in
1948—the fly-plane predictor.
Here it is, in the transmitting-
station below decks, the control-
ling nerve-centre of ail guns.
There is nothing secret here —
that I could divulge, anyway ;
five years outside is a long time.
And the thing looks like some-
thing you would expect to find
in a control-room at A.W.A.
bank upon bank of amplifiers,
something like 800 valves.
Everything electronic how, not
the old logarithmic method of
multiplying and dividing with
gears and cogs. Yet the instru-
ment feeds information to the
guns which will allow them to
hit, with time-fused shell, an
aircraft doing anything it likes,
at top speed.
One noticed earlier, either side
of the gunnery-director above
the bridge, two enormous yellow
eyes, about 4ft. across, staring
apparently sightlessly ahead.
Their sight consists of shafts of
electronic particles shot out at
speed of light, and rebounding
from a target. Here, in the
transmitting-room, is their pur-
pose. Beneath a dialled sort ot
switchboard, a small wheel.
The rating turning it swings
those Cyclopean radar-aerials up
top ; swings, also, the gunnery-
director ; and, as well, the two
turrets. The lot, on to a target
perhaps 40 miles away. And all
the rating sees is a steeple of
light jumping on a radar trace.
Here, too, is the radar-set
which spots the fall of shot
against an enemy ship. One set
echoes from the target, the other
from the water-spouts of falling
shell. The difference in range.
applied in elevation to the guns, !
means 100 4.5-inch armor-pierc- i
mg shells on the target every i
minute. The guns are called only
semi-automatic!
After lunch. Commander lan
McDonald, most co-operative,
arranges for a helicopter to fly ]
over the ship for Press photos.
A radio-producer from A.W.A., i
chasing sound-effects for a
broadcast serial, takes his por-
table tape-recorder with him in :
the motor-boat to board the
whirligigger on Jervis Bay foot-
ball-field. Having never seen a
helicopter before, I go too, for
the ride. And to learn just how
damned co-operative the cap-
tain can be.
So that the photographer, on
the director above the bridge,
can get his photo, the radioman
(ex-R.A.F.) obliges by promis-
ing to have himself lowered on
the helicopter’s winch-wire, a la
pilot being recovered .from his
ditched carrier - aircraft off
Korea.
On the football-field we watch
while the queer contraption flut-
ters slowly groundward, arms
whirling, our faces stung by
flying bits of grass. She settles,
undercarriage spreading as it
takes the weight. An officer
from the naval air-station escorts
us in under the spinning blades,
up to the cockpit door. A short,
gaunt man, the Navy’s senior
whirligigger pilot, bellows direc-
tions to the radioman about
being lowered. Then we sign the
blood-chit, absolving the Navy
of all blame for our foolishness,
I sit beside the pilot, clear
perspex before my feet, holiday-
makers and the naval fire-wagon
watching in the distance. Behind,
the radioman gets a big yellow
strap passed under his arms,
with an injunction to keep his
arms tightly lowered, otherwise
the strap might slip up over his
head.... I enjoy, in my security,
a momentary pang of pity for
the strapped one, then watch
fascinated as the pilot opens her
up. We rise absolutely vertically,
effortlessly, as in a fast lift.
Then the sea is below us,
prettily colored in greens and
blues —a sub. would stand out
like a black cigar set in green
jelly —over the breakwater and
out to the ship, the cockpit filled
with clamorous, comforting,
noise. A helicopter has no wings
to glide on if engines fail.
Up to, and level with, the
bridge. Not ready on the foc’s’le,
so the pilot eases his craft
astern, down the side of the ship.
A wave from the bow, and we’re
ahead again, banking—no, slip-
ping, laterally sideways to
hover over the watching foc’s’le.
I have the pilot’s right foot lined
up through the perspex with the
top of the capstan below.
Throughout the whole operation
his foot never moves off the cap-
stan. The craft is hovering per-
fectly stationary, in a wind
logged as “strong.”
I look behind to bid my friend
farewell —and see only a thin
winch-wire, being paid out by
the pilot’s offsider. Looking
down, I see him dangling over
the foc’s’le, other hands upreach-
ing. Then he’s down, gently,
and the strap is unhooked. It
snakes upward on the electric
winch. Very nice. Now, for me,
back to the football-field and a
normal trip back to the ship in
the waiting motorboat.
We slide down the other side
of Tobruk, and I see captain
and first-lieutenant on the bridge,
laughing fit to bust their boilers.
; What the hell . . . ? Later, I
( find out why. The photographer
had got rain on his lens, and
called down to the captain, A
man of instant action, that cap-
tain. He picks up the radio-
telephone, talks to the pilot.
The first intimation I have of
this treachery is when the pilot
presses his earphones to his head.
He looks at me, taps me on the
shoulder, then points down.
I crawl between the seats,
back to where a grinning off-
sider waits with the yellow belt.
Swiftly, definitely, he straps it
under the arms, and gestures to
sit on the floor, legs dangling
outside. Rush of wind past the
open door, clutching at trouser-
legs ; snarling clatter of the huge
propeller up top; heavy thump-
ing from under the region of
the yellow belt.
I wonder: “How the devil do
I get out of this thing? Jump,
slide, crawl?”
No need for worry. As the
aircraft heads for the grinning
foc’s’le the offsider lifts his boot.
I’m out, dangling like a yo-yo,
the aircraft’s exhaust booming
a foot from my face. I lift one
arm to straighten my glasses,
dislodged by the slipstream . . .
and remember the instructions
about lifted arms. Hands clasped
in a grip a bulldozer couldn’t
break, 1 dangle. Then the bridge
seems to be rising past my face.
No other sensation of lowering.
Then blessed touch of welcom-
ing hands on my legs, and I’m
down. The strap comes off
quicker than it went on. A voice
screams in my ear above the
howl of the thing hovering
above, “What about my tape-
recorder?” Reply censored.
Admonished later, the captain
raises his glass, grinning oyer
the edge. “Well, you didn’t think
I was going to risk any of my
sailors, did you? If you silly
civvies . . .”
Tobruk slips at 1700. The
radioman’s machine on the
bridge records the captain’s
wheel-and-engine orders —as well
as a few choice morsels requiring
editing later; another, on the
foc’s’le, the clank and grind of
the cable heaving in through the
hawsepipe ; a third, down amid-
ships, waits for the boiler-room
fans to rise from their muted
hum to a snarling whine, suck-
ing cold air down to the Hades
below, pressured air to keep
those roaring fuel-fed flames
wreathing about the boiler-tubes
and not back over the stoker-
mechanics.
A shout from the long,
turreted foc’s’le: “Anchor’s
aweigh, sir!” Then a smother
of white from her square-cut tail,
a slight shudder as Tobruk
breathes mightily with super-
heated steam. The harbor waves
slip by in quick retreat, then she
dips to the ocean swell out past
the rearing rock-face of Point
Perpendicular, its lighthouse like
a bleached bone stuck upright
on its lip.
Night falls wide and dense
over a rising sea, lightened by
the brief white flashes of white-
caps. Tobruk snorts into it at
26 knots, well below top speed,
for the rendezvous, now and
again flinging stinging white
splinters of spray, clear over her
bridge. To port, relieving the
blackness, are the shimmering
lights of Kiama; to starb’d the
red port-lights and white mast-
head steaming lights of a couple
of merchantmen, bound peace-
fully on their lawful occasions.
And, also in the dark, vociferous
night, three destroyers, darkened,
purposeful, hunting, radar-aerials
sweeping with swords of elec-
tronic feelers for each other.
Above Tobruk’s bridge her
director’s Cyclopean eyes stare
through the darkness out over
the starb’d bow ; stare, find, and
report to the young rating far
below at his wheel in the trans-
mitting-station.
Before the fun starts I crawl
into B-turret, the mounting de-
tailed to fire starshell. Normally,
with her radar, Tobruk could
open fire in the black night with
as much accuracy as she could
on a sunny day. But as we can
hardly reveal our discovery of
this enemy with high-explosive
bricks, we herald it with the
glaring, slowly-dropping para-
chute-flares.
In the turret the crew—average
age about 22 —wait, untensed,
for the executive order. One
passes round a packet of ju-
jubes. Obviously these young-
sters know their long-barrelled
weapons, and, as discovered
earlier, are willing at the drop
of a breech to enthuse on how
efficient they are. We shall see.
A sharp-nosed starshell waits,
vertical, on the outer side of
each twin breech. Its nose is
stuck inside an automatic fuse-
setting machine. This will give
it the correct fuse-length to
explode it over and just behind
the target, silhouetting it as it
drifts slowly seaward.
A warning order from a loud-
speaker —the gunnery-officer on
the bridge—and the hum of the
pumps rises. The guns, remote-
controlled, jerk, and sniff
abruptly up and down, finding
the elevation. Outside, the ship
is plunging at high speed, fling-
ing a welter of spray back over
her sharp snout. Inside the gas-
proof turrets (shades of the old
open mountings of World War
II!) there is no sound but the
whine of pumps, no movement
but the electronic jerking of the
thick breeches. Then open
fire!
The silent tableau of waiting
men breaks into active life. A
brass cylinder of cordite is
crashed down on the loading-
tray. A bright light glares for
a second above the fuse-setting
machine —fuse set! The fused
shell clumps down ahead of
the cordite, The breechworker
punches a button on the breech-
block. Almost faster than the
eye can follow, the power-
rammer rams shell and cordite
into the open maw of the breech,
then flies back —a metallic streak.
A second, and Tobruk explodes
into action.
Clump of cordite on the tray ;
flash of fuse-light; crash of
rammer; dull thud of breech
closing; boom of guns —the
sequence is repeated, again
and again and again. Above
destroyer Bataan, eight miles
across the tumbling seas, the
starshell bursts, beautifully in
position, mathematically set and
ranged. She blinks a red light
at us, a few seconds after her
own starshell falls short, but still
in illuminating range. Tobruk
heels on the turn to avoid the
salvo indicated by the red light.
For ten minutes the destroyers
play, firing, twisting, locked to
each other by invisible, elec-
tronic eyes. Then a stutter of
yellow light orders the flotilla to
form-up on the leader, destina-
tion J.B.
(i Continued on page 34)


ALL OVER THE WORLD
4h
M
Wt / A S
S3*
a®*#
Good mornings begin with Gillette
The sons of the East all agree with the West
That super-sharp Blue Gillette Blades are the best,
And the satisfied Sultan advises his brother,
“Use the razor and blade that are made for each other.”
BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
5-BLADE PACKETS. 2/1
10-BLADE PACKETS. 4/2
20-BLADE DISPENSER, 8/4
The world’s best shaving value!
Blue Gillette Blades
N 8
df
fjjry?
r
wan
The world's
first choice
In every part of the world
Swan Pens are first choice
for people who believe in
quality.
Swan Pens are famous
for their wonderful nibs
specially made by
hand by highly-skilled
craftsmen. There is a
nib for every style of
penmanship.
"fOO uett/ia j/eoJ
d
TEASE MARK
9
'wan
PENS
MABIE, TODD & CO. (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
52.62.2
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FAR-FLUNG U.S. BASES
The U.S. now has bases scat-
tered in a vast defensive network
all round the world.
“U.S. News and World Re-
port” states that there are close
on 200 of them “when secret
military projects are included.”
They call for the maintaining
of a million and a half men on
the spot operating them—a tidy-
sized nucleus to build on in case
of war.
Only one-third of those men
are engaged in Korea, though
Uncle Sam has far more men
there than all the other U.N.O.
nations lumped together. Only
one dollar in seven raised for
defence in the U.S. is going into
Korea and thereabouts.
Europe, including Great
Britain, is getting the bulk of
defence money spent outside the
U.S. itself. There (in Britain and
Europe) the U.S. is building its
biggest concentration of overseas
bases and other installations,
dozens of them in each of the
larger countries. Nearly half a
million Americans are on duty
in Europe, in land, air and sea
forces —ordered there for an in-
definite period.
There are air bases, naval
bases. Army bases, huge “base
complexes,” small headquarters
facilities, leased air-fields, instal-
lations ranging from small cities
to island outposts. The secret
bases, of course, cannot be dis-
closed. Also, there are U.S.
military missions and advisory
groups now operating in 34 dif-
ferent countries, from Turkey
to Formosa. Nearly every
country in the free world, in
fact, has Americans in uniform
stationed in it somewhere.
In the Far North, for example,
is the new U.S. Air Force base
at Thule, Greenland, and two
, other bases in Greenland, at
Sondre Strom Fjord and Nar-
sarssuak. There are Americans
in Iceland to guard the Keflavik
Air Base there. Other G.l.’s are
at Goose Bay, Labrador, others
are stationed at four U.S. bases
in Newfoundland, and thousands
man a network of Air Force and
Navy bases in Alaska.
In Britain tens of thousands
of Americans in uniform are
manning 21 major air-bases built
with U.S. dollars and fitted with
U.S. equipment. In addition to
the protection afforded, Britain
gets an estimated 100 million
dollars a year in the form of
spending by this group of exiled
Americans.
On the continent of Europe,
American soldiers and airmen
number hundreds of thousands.
There are 35 U.S. military instal-
lations, eight of them major air-
bases, in France alone. In Ger-
many, there are still others.
There is an installation at
Naples. There are other groups
of Americans in Trieste, in
Yugoslavia, in Greece.
In North Africa it’s much the
same story. Five huge air-bases
are built or building in French
Morocco, with U.S. dollars and
U.S. equipment, but under an
agreement whereby they will be
donated without cost to the
French if and when the present
emergency ends. • There is a large
U.S. Navy air-base at , Port
Lyautey, north of Casablanca,
and a major Air Force station
near Tripoli. U.S. Army troops
are in Africa, too, in Algeria
and Libya. In all, there are well
over 10,000 Americans in uni-
form in North Africa, with many
more due to arrive when all
planned bases are completed.
U.S. uniforms appear in the
Middle East, also. There is a big
U.S. bomber-base at Dhahran in
Saudi Arabia, with Army as well
as Air Force men stationed
there. More Americans are in
uniform in Turkey, assisting
in that country’s defence effort.
There are even Gl’s in Iran.
But Americans are stationed
not only at these potential hot
spots. Many thousands are on
isolated islands. Airmen main-
tain Lajes Field in the Azores,
and Kindley Air Force Base in
Bermuda. U.S. sailors in large
numbers are based permanently
on Trinidad, at Gauntanamo
Bay, in Cuba, in San Juan,
Puerto Rico, and elsewhere in
the Caribbean. American sol-
diers, sailors and airmen all fight
the heat at installations around
the Panama Canal Zone.
In the Pacific most of the
well-known island bases of
World War II are again fully
manned by American youths.
Pearl Harbor is bustling with
activity. So is near-by Hickam
Field. Johnston Island is a
major Air Force base now.
There are active installations,
manned by more thousands of
Americans, on Midway, Wake,
Kwajalein, Guam, Saipan and
Iwo Jima. And there are less
famous island bases operating
now in the Aleutians, at Adak,
Cape, Shemya, Thornbrough and
Cold Bay.
In the Far East there are about
half as many Americans sta-
tioned on bases or fleets outside
of Korea as there are engaged
in that full-scale war. Some are
still based at Clark Field near
Manila ; tens of thousands are
in Japan, despite an end to the
occupation there. Air-bases, in
fact, are being increased in
number in Japan, with 11 major
bases now being manned by
U;S. airmen. That’s all in addi-
tion to the huge U.S. bomber
base on Okinawa.
And, as well as all this, there
are no fewer than 280 similar
defence establishments “at
home” in the U.S.
Infrastructure
For “those who accept no
evidence of Allied solidarity
save bricks and mortar,” there
— "Washington Post”
“I SURE WISH YOU THE GREATEST SUCCESS”
ever much the international
situation may change.”
is (as London “Economist” puts
it) “the quite astonishing
achievement of Infra-
structure’ ”:
“Infrastructure means that the
fourteen Allies share in Western
Europe static and permanent
installations for ground- and
air-forces worth, when they are
completed, over £350 million, to
which the British have contri-
buted some £5O million.
“Most of 140 airfields will be
completed during this year and
they are being provided with a
common pipeline-system for the
delivery of jet fuel.
“The [British] Minister of
Defence [Lord Alexander] quite
rightly called this ‘an unprece-
dented international effort for
common defence’ in peace-time.
“These installations, plus the
air-warning and communications
system built up for Nato, pro-
vide a hard basis for a continued
collective defence effort, how-
Cutting Defences
Accepting that all military
staffs in the West have given up
planning for a critical date at
which the danger of war is likely
to be at its greatest, or much
greater than it is now, London
“Economist” comments on this
vital change in defence policy,
the effects of which will be
seen in all free-world countries
from now on:
“It is doubtful whether this is
due to improved intelligence
about Soviet intentions, and even
more doubtful whether it is due
to clearer thinking in Cabinets.
“The cause has lain far more
in three factors: the increasingly
accurate estimates that are being
made of what the Atlantic Allies
can afford to produce for the
common defence ; the resulting
insight into the • staggering cost
of maintaining, as distinct from
creating, modern forces ; the de-
termination of politicians not to
make themselves unpopular by
insisting that danger of war per-
sists when the ipan in the street
believes it is parsing.
“For the growth of these in-
fluences Sir Winston Churchill
and his advisers can, if they
wish, claim some of the credit.
But it is President Eisenhower
who is leading the Atlantic alli-
ance towards the policy of small,
powerful, up-to-date forces.”
On the Eisenhower lead ac-
counting for the change, “New
York Times” explains that both


m
mm
mm
o U I S HlO^P
"h'qS
V**
, s.r«
o*o,, J* Ra *« BRANDS .p»‘
S*?**,,.,"*«.» *t » -
Ss*,. vouugY
Your guests
will know
you serve
the best
N.S.W. Distributors:
TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
• N
T5T.26.12
TOLLEY’
SPECIAL
f
HOSPITAL
df
Missing Friend
EEIO ALEXANDER WEIR, formerly of
Park Lane, Aspendale, Victoria, or any
person knowing his whereabouts, is re-
quested to communicate immediately with
JOHN D. MUIR, Solicitor, 4U Collins
Street, Melbourne.
The AGONISING PAIN
I s:
d
9l
HANDS • WRISTS
ELBOWS • SHOULDERS • HIPS
KNEES • ANKLES • FEET
No matter how much or how long you
have suffered, no matter what you
have tried before, do not give up
hope. COLCHISONE, the sensational
English pale blue pills, will bring
YOU the relief you seek. For ailments
of the Rheumatic group—Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Fibrositis, Lumbago and
Gout—there is no substitute for this
outstanding treatment. Proved first in
England and now here in Australia,
COLCHISONE is bringing a new life
to hundreds of thousands—a life free
from the crippling pain of stiff,
swollen joints and limbs.
fd
COLCHISONE
From your chemist PRiCE - with food c h ar t.
If you have any difficulty in obtaining supplies, write to
Rickard Medical Products Pty. Ltd., 21 Oxford Street, S ydnef.
„ TT c ,Wpnce and mutual-
a,d programmes are being based
on a philosophy which abandons
the idea that we must prepare
tr a specific “D-year” of
Soviet atmek and Which sub-
ctitntes for this idea a pro-
gramme of continuing military
p epamdness on as high a
plateau as is economically feas-
fble, in the expectation that un-
less the Soviets change not only
their tactics but their funda-
mental aim of world domination
we shall be confronted with the
“cold war” for years to come:
“jn other words, the initial
rearmament spurt initiated under
the impact of the Korean war is
to be replaced by a long-term
programme intended to keep us
and our Allies fit for the long
pull. As the President said:
‘Defence is not a matter of
maximum strength for a single
date. It is a matter of adequate
protection to be projected as far
into the future as the actions
and apparent purposes of others
may compel us.’ ”
Oceans of Oil
Since Moussadek turned off
the taps, the pace of oil-develop-
ment round about the Persian
Gulf has been phenomenal, says
the “Petroleum Press Review.”
Production in Saudi Arabia,
for instance, began in 1938, but
had only reached one million
metric tons in 1944. By 1947
it had leaped to 12 million tons
and to 26 million tons by 1950.
Output again leapt forward to
37 million tons in 1951 and to
41 million tons in 1952, reaching
in June a peak rate equivalent
to about 43 million tons a year.
The development of Kuwait
has been no less remarkable.
Production began only in 1946,
but reached over 17 million tons
in 1950, rising to 28 million tons
in 1951 and to over 37 million
tons in 1952, with a peak rate
equivalent to about 41 million
tons a year in mid-year.
With their combined produc-
tion of 79 million tons last year
these two territories alone pro-
vided about one-third both of the
oil-production of the free world,
excluding the U.S., and of the
crude oil tonnage entering inter-
national trade. Irak, too, will
soon reach an output of 30
million tons a year.
These and other smaller areas
are building up to a huge total;
yet (notes London “Financial
Times”) the Persian Gulf region
is by no means fully surveyed or
explored for oil. Very large
areas of the Arabian Peninsula
still have to be tested, and there
is no reason to suppose that the
notable degree of success thus
far enjoyed will mark the peak
of achievement. Inueed, revalua-
tions, new knowledge gained, and
the latest exploration successes
in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia
show that even recent expecta-
tions and estimates of poten-
tialities have been too low.
“Almost everything that is
associated with oil development
in the sparsely populated lands
of the Arabian Peninsula brings
new ideas and changes, which
may amount to a revolution in
ways of life for nearly all who
come within the orbit of the oil
companies’ operations. No-
where else in the world is there
any parallel with the situation in
Kuwait, where a small old-
established 2000 - square - mile
desert State, whose population
even when inflated by current
developments numbers no mdre
.than about 150,000 people, now
enjoys oil revenue of some £6O
million a year in contrast to an
insignificant total revenue only a
few years ago.
“The town of Kuwait, where
half or more of the population
lives, is being rebuilt and
modernised, involving an annual
expenditure of £l5 million for
at least 10 years. Water, hitherto
scarce,, is being provided from
the distillation of sea-water
using waste natural gas as fuel.
The most up-to-date buildings
are being built for hospitals and
schools.”
That is typical of the “swift
and startling change of an
unprecedented character and
scale being brought to territories
hitherto hardly touched by
modem ideas and modem
things.”
Revolution Off
Even if the nt Russ i an
leaders still believe in world
revolut i on a s a Communist ob-
. { they have an impossible
ahead * of them , in the view
f world . affairs writer Sebastian
M -
Ma ; lner ‘ A . . - ...
I n a ana y sis
apparent Moscow changes since
Stalin s death, Haffner,
Twentieth Century, -
vances m support certain simple
f on S evident to ® ver y
intelligent student in the Wes .
First, that it can have been
no coincidence that Communist
revolution occurred and suc-
ceeded only in Russia, Yugo-
slavia and China, and never
came anywhere near success in
any of the fully-developed
capitalist countries: “The fact
is that a fully developed big-
corporation capitalism, and a
fully developed two - party
democracy, are the very worst
breeding-ground for Communist
revolution. They are historically
ahead, of it,” _
Second, that Communism has
proved a success in under-
— St. Louis “Globe-Democrat"
WHAT ABOUT THE LOOT?
developed, despotically governed
countries: “For these countries
it has, in the twentieth century,
provided exactly the service
which early laissez-faire capital-
ism in the nineteenth century
provided for the West: to en-
force and make possible the
necessary ‘primitive’ accumula-
tion of capital for industrialisa-
tion. (It has done so at exactly
the same inevitable price of
exploitation, hardship, social
upheaval, social injustice and
sweated labor.) It has also, in
the political sphere, provided a
modernised, more broadly based
and more efficient equivalent jff
the despotic forms of govern-
ment to which these countries
have always been accustomed.
It is a suggestive thought that the
Communist countries of today
are, by and large, the successor
States of the absolute monarchies
of one hundred years ago:
China, Russia, Prussia and the
Hapsburg Empire.”
Together, these two facts
(declares Haffner) make non-
sense of the idea of Communist
world revolution. They make it
obvious that Communist revolu-
tion has a chance, and Com-
munist government a role to
play, in some countries and not
in others; and that to hope for
(or fear) Communist revolution
everywhere is vain, as vain as
to expect the whole world to
accept the British or American
Constitutions and their underly-
ing ideas.
A third fact, he further sug-
gests, makes nonsense of the idea
of Communist world revolution
being followed by a universal
Communist State - the fact
that Russia, China and the
Eastern European Communist
countries remain obstinately
separate, with distinct and
often conflicting interests, and
that between two of them
Russia and Yugoslavia
there exists today mortal enmity
and a rather more active cold
war than between Russia and
the West.
“If these simple and inescap-
able facts are kept in mind, does
there remain much incentive for
an intelligent Russian leader of
1953 to sacrifice any Russian
interest for the supposed interests
of world Communism? Indeed,
does there remain much reason
for the assumption of our
learned experts that world revolu-
tion or world conquest, and a
world State, are and remain the
basic .unchangeable aims of
Communism?”
The "Peace" Lure
Effects of Moscow's “peace”
“The man in the street in
Western Europe is listening—
and listening hard —to Russian
peace overtures. It’s the kind
of music he’s been waiting for.
The menacing undertones don’t
bother him much. He doesn’t
want to hear them.
“Allied Governments, by con-
trast, hear the false notes. They
are wary of what they hear
from Moscow —sceptical, sus-
picious, on guard. But popu-
larly elected Governments must
be influenced by public opinion
sooner or later.
“The situation is quite dif-
ferent in the U.S., where both
people and Government show a
similar cautious approach to the
Communist moves.
“Swinging around Britain and
Northern Europe, an American
visitor is startled by the blind-
ness and swiftness with which
people magnify Communist
manoeuvres into a complete re-
incarnation of Russia —with the
bad left out. Moscow’s shrewd,
courting line seems to be paying
off. Memories seem short. A
different age seems to have
dawned.
“In Britain the big-circu-
lation newspapers—presumably
closest to the people —seem to
think peace is just around the
corner.”
Various Voices
High Commissioner for
South Africa in Britain, Dr.
A. L. Geyer: “The National
[Malan] party has all along
given the very definite pledge
that a changeover to a republic
can only be brought about, not
merely as the result of a Parlia-
mentary majority obtained at an
ordinary general election, but as
the result of a special and definite
mandate from the electorate. I
can see no likelihood of such a
special mandate being asked for,
or given, in the near future.”
Sir Winston Churchill: “We
live in an age of clatter and
buzz, of gape and gloat.”
Canadian Prime Minister St.
Laurent (addressing the U.S.
National Press Club in Wash-
ington) : “The United States
would seem to have little to fear
from wholesome competition
with the other nations of the
free world. Is your economy not
too strong, and are your indus-
tries not too productive, to be in
any serious danger from
imports? American business has
always proclaimed its faith in the
wholesome effects of honest
competition. Is it not then the
part of wisdom to widen the
area of competitive trade and
see if more nations cannot make
their own way into prosperity
and strength?”
Harold Watkinson (Parlia-
mentary Secretary, British
Ministry of Labor and National
Service): “We must rid our
minds of any impression that
full employment is a kind of
political divine right. It is a
privilege that has to be earned,
and can only be earned by con-
stantly increasing standards of
efficiency, enterprise and hard
work.”
General Templer: “As far as
the shooting war is concerned
[in Malaya] we have got the
Communists down. But they are
not finished yet. They retain a
dangerous armed potential.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Slum Abolition
Eight years’ agitation by charitable,
welfare, planning and building organisa-
tions has produced a Melbourne slum-
abolition scheme covering a 50yd.-by-
35yd. area occupied by 16 ramshackle
houses. Flats will be built in their
place, which will let for £3 a week. Pos-
session of the whole area has not, as yet,
been obtained because at least six
tenants refuse to move out, but even if
possession is finally achieved, it is very
doubtful whether this scheme will make
any contribution whatever to the slum-
. clearance problem, the nature of which
is social rather than reconstructional.
Just how people who have been pay-
ing between 7s. 6d. and 15s. a week can
suddenly pay £3 for new living accommo-
dation has not been explained. The
answer may be that they cannot, and the
land area will ultimately be occupied by
people drawn from other than slum areas
who can afford to pay such a rent.
Alternatively, if the commission applies
its rent-rebate arrangement to families
whose income is not sufficient to pay
the full rent, such losses will be incurred
as will prevent the application of the
scheme on anything like the large scale
necessary.
In either case, the promises made by
successive Premiers and Housing
Ministers will not, it would appear, be
realisable, and the slum problem will
remain
Research and experience elsewhere
have shown that the rebuilding of slum
areas in the inner metropolitan ring with
anything but large-scale multi-storied
flats is uneconomic because of high land
costs, and even then such flats cannot
be let to people with small incomes unless
huge State subsidies are supplied. More-
over, flats are generally agreed to be
unsuitable for families with young
children, and that would immediately
rule out thousands of inner-suburban
residents.
It seems certain that attempts to re-
house people in the areas they now
occupy are doomed unless they volun-
tarily pay more than a fifth of their
income in rent, in which case, as English
"Not HOT? Blame your father !”
health inspectors demonstrated, their diet
suffers and the process actually accelerates
death.
To be reasonably economic, and
therefore capable of wide application
without bankrupting State resources,
cheap land and a simple form of house
construction are necessary, which points
directly to the politically-applauded but
sparingly-applied post-war policy of de-
centralisation. The S.A. Housing Trust
is building houses for farmers at half the
cost of urban houses, thus demonstrat-
ing that the proposal is not merely an
ideal.
Regional planning experts have also
pointed out that country towns close to
food-growing areas are eminently suit-
able for the food-processing industries,
which depend mainly on unskilled labor.
Removal of existing slum population to
such towns would provide healthy living
conditions and occupations at much less
loss to the State, while contributing to
the vitally necessary programme of re-
establishing many decaying rural centres.
Meanwhile, existing slum areas, suitably
replanned, can become new handy-to-
city suburbs for citizens who can afford
to pay the cost which such convenience
would make economic.— Rag (Vic.).
Charities
“Rann’s” plan for a “revision of the
charities set-up” (B. 10/6/ ’53) is not
entirely justified.
The frequency of button-days and
appeals in Sydney is inefficient; a better
scheme would be some sort of arrange-
ment on the lines of the American “Com-
munity Chest.” With this plan a number
of charities in a community combine
forces for a planned annual appeal mote
elaborately organised than anything we
have in Australia. The proceeds are
divided proportionately on a pre-
arranged basis.
However, on the question of overlap-
ping functions “Rann” is behind the times.
Most of the larger charities have already
defined their functions voluntarily. For
instance, the services of the Red Cross
Social Service Department are available
to ex-servicemen who are ill and their
dependants. Any ineligible applicant
would be courteously referred to the par-
ticular organisation most appropriate to
his particular need.
Another aid in the prevention of over-
lapping is an index conducted in N. S.
Wales by the Council of Social Service.
Nearly every main “charity” and welfare
organisation is registered with this index,
which provides only the simplest par-
ticulars necessary to identify a person or
family, and makes available details of
his or their contracts with other agencies,
such as hospitals, charitable organisa-
tions and so on. Use of such an index
is accepted practice in Britain and U.S.A.,
and in no way conflicts with the prin-
ciple that a man’s approach to a
“charity” is confidential. What informa-
tion (if any) agency A might choose
to give agency B regarding a case is
entirely at their own discretion and only
sufficient to prevent duplication of
service.
Another factor making for increased
efficiency is the employment of trained
social workers by almost all welfare
agencies, whether “voluntary” or Govern-
ment-run. (In this profession the demand
still exceeds the supply, and some
“charities” wishing to engage trained
staff cannot fill their vacancies.) Few
trained social workers are the incom-
petent nincompoops some writers of
fiction would have us believe. Educa-
tional qualifications for the course are
the same as for any University degree
in other fields; in N.S.W. no student
younger than 19 years is accepted, and
graduate students are preferred.
The science of social work has as
one of its aims the belief that it is more
useful to a community to assist a person
to the point where he can solve his own
problems than to hand out indiscriminate
and unconsidered “charity.” The person
in question may be physically handi-
capped, mentally retarded, or what the
first Elizabethans called “a sturdy
beggar”—someone who preferred bludg-
ing to hard graft. The present-day
tendency is to believe that, if a person
is not a case for an institution, then he
can probably be helped to become a
self-supporting, self-respecting citizen,
particularly in periods of full-employ-
ment.
But in modem society situations of
sudden urgent material need will always
arise and only “charities” which are not
hamstrung by regulations are flexible
enough to act with the alacrity such
emergencies sometimes require. For this
reason few such agencies would agree to
“Government interference,” which, no
matter how well-meant, would limit their
scope and freedom in the same way as
it has limited that of so many large
hospitals. For that matter our main
hospitals do not seem to be finding
budgeting any less chancy in spite of
Government subsidies. There is no
reason to suppose other welfare organisa-
tions would fare any better. —N. K.
(N.S.W.).
Weather—or Not?
It may be that considerable experience
in the study of weather-cycles, or what-
ever they may be, is required before the
forecasts of Inigo Jones become intel-
ligible, but, if so, then of what use are
they generally? It follows that sufficient
study would make one as knowledgeable
as the maestro himself, whereas 1 take
weather forecasts to have the object of
informing the uninformed layman about
the weather.
Consider the forecast in B, 27/5/’53:
The general drop in temperature shown
about this time on the cyclical chart has
arrived, but as both cycles show it this
does not determine the question of the
general transfer of cyclical control. In the
south that will he shown by the gradual
cumulative rains, while the longer cycle
does not have sufficiently heavy rains to
do this.
To do what?
For all I know Inigo Jones may be
absolutely right. What I complain about
is the complete obscurity of the language
used, and I have no hesitation in affirm-
ing that this particular forecast is com-
pletely useless to the average man, the
simple test applied being that of my own
intelligence.—R. H. G. (W.A.).
Guide Dogs
That story on guide-dogs (B. 3/6/’53)
no doubt touched the hearts of those
who support the work for the blind, and
others may have decided that a guide-
dog centre part-owned by every State
would be worthy of support.
The latest information from the U.S.A.,
however, states, “A factor which might
indicate the attitude of the blind to-
wards guide-dogs is, that although 1500
blinded veterans of World War II are
entitled to a trained guide-dog, without
cost, fewer than 50 are believed to have
taken advantage of the opportunity. An-
other figure quoted by one of our
[U.S.A.] guide-dog agencies points out
that in 11 Western States, having a blind
population of 27,000 only 450 are be-
lieved to be using guide-dogs. Analysing
further the number of blind who are
employable and who are physically and
mentally capable of using a guide-dog
successfully, they estimate the potential
at 1300, which is less than five per cent.”
In fact, only 1.7 p.c. of the 27,000 blind
people in these 11 States are using guide-
dogs, and of the 1500 blind soldiers of
World War II only 3.3 p.c. are using
guide-dogs. The cost of a guide-dog in
America varies between £A4O6 and
£ABSB.
The idea of setting up a guide-dog
training-centre in Australia or support-
ing such a venture has been carerully
considered by the Board or the Royal
Blind Society of N. S. Wales and rejected
because of the exorbitant cost of tram-
ing a guide-dog, which is m me vicinity
of £l5OO per dog (a cost which recurs
every seven years), and also because of
the few blind people who would benefit.
In America, England, France, Ger-
many, Switzerland and Italy, 3690 guide-
dogs were in use in 1938 and the total
blind population of these countries was
282,000—i.e., only 1.3 p.c. of the blind
in these countries were using guide-dogs,
in that year.
Applying these figures to the blind
population of Australia (approximately
6000 men, women and children) only
78 blind people would benefit. Should
any society for the blind ask the public
for £117,000 to spend on 78 people? The
suggestion has been made, investigated
and rejected many times in the past by
the blind and organisations for the blind,
and my board sees no reason why a
scheme that has proved to be a dismal
failure overseas should be foisted on the
generous and sympathetic public of Aus-
tralia.
Here are the words of two world-
famous blind people.
The late Sir Arthur Pearson, founder
of St. Dunstan’s, said, “I have a feeling,
which I have no doubt you fellows will
share fully with me, that a dog at the
end of a string is apt to remind one a
little too much of the blind beggar with
his tapping stick and shambling gait.”
Dr. Robert Irwin, recently retired
from the position of executive director
of the American Foundation for the
Blind, said “Less than five per cent, of
the blind population of the U.S.A. can
be trained to use guide-dogs.”
There is no reason to suppose that a
greater percentage of Australia’s blind
population could be trained to use guide-
dogs. Let us endeavor to find new
methods of assisting the blind to lead-
full and useful lives instead of wasting
money, time and energy on discarded
ideas. —T. C. Fairbairn, Organising
Secretary, Royal Blind Society of N. S.
Wales.
Parking-meters
Melbourne ratepayers would welcome
the installation of parking-meters, so
strenuously criticised by Len King (B.
27/5/’53), even if the profits from them
were not used to build off-street parking-
stations. This is because parking and
traffic management is costing the city
£60,000 a year more than the fees col-
lected from parking, according to a state-
ment made by the chairman of the
M.C.C. Traffic Committee.
A recent issue of the “New Yorker”
reports that 31 mobile police-officers
patrol all its traffic-meters, which, last
year, earned a profit of 166 dollars each.
Compare that with the hoards of traffic
officers and policemen who patrol Mel-
bourne streets, and the reason for the
fantastic losses is quite clear.
Sydney businessmen, who lately re-
ported that the parking ban was costing
them £50,000 a week in sales lost, would
also welcome the meters, just as
merchants in the Bronx and lower East
Side aieas of New York did. Shortly
after the meters were installed last year
they requested that their operation be
extended from six to seven days, and to
10 p.m. each night instead of 6 p.m.
The “New Yorker,” commenting on
the operation of the meters, says that
since they were installed double-parking
and slow cruising have been “almost
eliminated,” and the all-day parker has
been “banished.”
Probably none of the 2800 American
cities which together have installed more


than 1,113,000 traffic-meters would claim
that they completely solve the parking
problem, but they do provide for the
short-term parker with business or shop-
ping errands —the customer who, after
all, is the life-blood of the central area
of a city. Deny this motorist any sort
of parking facilities, or force him to park
on the outskirts of the city (the only
place where large open-air parking-spaces
could be provided), and he will become
another client of suburban business.
If American experience has taught
anything it is that failure to provide for
the parking needs of the shopper ulti-
mately depresses central-city trading to
the point where big businesses move out,
rates slump and bankruptcy faces the
authorities. — Yerrin (Vic.).
The Second War Histories
In the matter of the “inaccuries” in
my review of the To Benghazi volume
of the “Official War History” which Mr.
Gavin Long purports to “correct” (B.
17/6/’53), I withdraw nothing from my
comparison of Bean’s maps with
Long’s.
Bean’s volumes on Gallipoli are the
most copiously charted and topographed
of any in the history of modern war.
Color-maps with 10-metre-interval
elevation-lines and specific heights plainly
marked, silhouette photographs with
features clearly named, photographs of
scale models of battlefields, relief
sketches and every other device which a
military topographer could think of are
scattered through his pages and related
intimately to the narrative. In Long’s
book there are three or four one-color
maps with 50- or 100-metre contour
intervals marked in a manner which
gives even an experienced map-reader
only the sketchiest picture of the exact
nature of the country. And, except in
odd cases, his heights are not marked.
The 160-odd pages with which Bean
opens his volume is all direct and
essential narrative necessary to the story
of the A.I.F. It does not once diverge
into politics, local or international, or
drift off to areas not relevant to the
A.I.F. story as does Long’s.
And I still stick to my view that
operation orders are useless as guides
unless the actual traces are given on suit-
able maps. And so will every military
leader.
I am sorry if I gave the impression
that the books of documents were the
only war histories which N.Z. is issuing.
1 mentioned those volumes as one
method of writing history which could
be effective if the documents were ex-
haustive and accurate —in the N.Z,
volumes they are not exhaustive. This
method is certainly better than Mr.
Long’s, which leaves the reader most of
the time to take his word for facts —
often matters for wide disagreement—
without knowledge of where they have
been obtained. — Ek Dum (N.S.W.).
Garage Hours
I can’t hold with “A.B.W.’s” comment
(B. 10/6/’53) that garages being open
hours and seven days a week “should
■be enough for anyone.” Anyone with
an ounce of foresight should be able to
see that the present changes in the garage
business are for the better. We have
the English and American examples to
prove it.
One of the objects of the oil companies
is to encourage the splitting of repair
business from the selling of petrol and
allied products. In metropolitan areas
this follows naturally as councils in con-
gested suburbs clamp down on noise—
panelbeating, etc. The effect of this is
the appearance of service-stations,
distinct from the garage, which specialise
in parking- and manoeuvring-space tSr
the motorist, speedy service, motoring
accessories and convenience and clean-
liness. The oil companies are cracking
their necks to teach their respective “re-
sellers” this. The garage-proprietor may
well say that all this is to the advantage
of the motorist, but isn’t an increase in
the popularity of motoring to his advant-
age, too?
In America 99 p.c. of the car-owners
wouldn’t know what to do were their
engines to stop. As well as selling him
petrol, the attendant at the service-station
he visits cleans his windscreen, checks
oil, tyres, lights, tells him where the local
beauty spots are found, asks him if he
would like a drink and gives him a
painted tumbler to have it in. Motor
and motorists are so mollycoddled that
the motorist just doesn’t have to bother
about anything but driving. Conse-
quently simpler motoring means more
motoring.
Of course, the reseller makes the most
of the time he spends with the motorist
and scientifically extracts 50 times more
profit from him than the average Aus-
tralian garage-owner, who, until recently,
persisted in meeting the motorist in dirty
dungarees and asking him “How many,
mate?” instead of “Fill her up?”
With all the money car-manufacturers
are bringing into Australia today, we are
going to see a tremendous increase in
cars per capita, and that means that the
demand for service-stations, as distinct
from garages, is going to increase, too.
Sixty-one-and-a-half hours and seven
days a week is more than the average
“He swears the beef Was cook .”
man cares to do, and in all probability
he employs some help. What of longer
hours if they help to increase the com-
fort of the motorist and, ultimately, the
profit of the service-station? —G. S.
(N.S.W.).
Security in Decline
The comparative figures of Queensland
income tax in 1938-39 and Common-
wealth tax this year (B. 3/6/’53) are
informative. In particular they show how
misleading such figures can be.
The man who, in 1938-39, earned a
net £5OO was getting about double the
basic wage. On it he paid £23 15s. 9d.,
about 4| per cent, of his income. His
counterpart today would have to earn
about £1250, on which he pays £139 55.,
about 11 1/7 per cent. But the position
is not really as bad as this. The pre-war
taxpayer had to pay Commonwealth tax
also ; today he gets some of it back in
social services—£39 child endowment, for
example, brings his tax down to £lOO 55.,
about 8 per cent.
I don’t dispute that Labor is a high-
tax party. Comparison of Queensland
rates with those of other States before
the war would demonstrate that. But
the trouble goes deeper. Labor has
merely gone further than other parties in
yielding to, even encouraging, the wide-
spread demand that the Government
should relieve the citizen of all respon-
“You’re getting more like your son every day.”
sibility for his own future. The reason
for this deplorable attitude may be found
in our past history. The pioneers were
hardy adventurers, daring “drought and
fever and famine, fire and ruin and flood,
and the bones that bleach on the sand-
hill, and the spears that redden with
blood” to carve out a better life than
they could hope for in the old world.
By and large they succeeded, but their
Sc. cess was built largely on the unpaid
labor of their children. These children,
born to poverty, drudgery and discomfort,
never had time to lift their eyes to the
ideals that inspired their parents. They
hated their life and, as soon as possible,
they escaped to the cities. The bright
lights, the crowds, a steady job, regular
wages, leisure, medical care, schools for
their children, all things they had uncon-
sciously longed for all their lives, rep-
resented for them the summit of human
bliss, and so they demanded a secure
tenure of their new life before all else.
And it was the Labor party that pandered
to them.
But now another generation has grown
up. They have been taught to worship
security ; they have really known nothing
else, but they find it dull and unsatisfying.
If the men who flocked to the cclcrs each
time the bugles blew were not, as Ward
claimed, “economic conscripts,” neither
were they moved entirely by patriotism.
They were seeking the spice of adventure
of which life had, so far, deprived them.
And they found it, and it changed t tern;
they have not been quite the same since.
Knowing as they now do how life sh- aid
be lived, they have been turning back to
the land. Others have undertaker i wide
variety of new enterprises, some cl them
harebrained in the extreme, but >'l with
adventure rather than security as the goal.
Of course there are thousands of excep-
tions ; those who, thanks to the v ’i ;dom
of their parents or the strength of their
own characters, embarked on life with a
true sense of values. They stayed at their
posts on the nation’s frontiers, or found
new frontiers for themselves, and for
them the pay-off has come. The slab hut
has given way to a comfortable home,
the bullock-dray to a modern car, the
muddy waterhole to hot and cold water
laid on. But that is not the end for
them; they look forward, not back, and
everywhere they see new frontiers open-
ing. From them will come the leaders in
a new upsurge of national achievement.
We may expect to see a steady shift of
emphasis, in our new Elizabethan age,
from security to opportunity.
To return to our citizen with the £1250
a year; we may at last find it more sen-
sible, instead of taking £139 from him
and handing £39 back, to take £lOO, or
even a bit less, and throw back on his
■ own shoulders, where it belongs, the
responsibility of providing for his own
children. — Magnoon (Q.).
Land Production and Transport
Vested interests and socialisation of
industry have almost got the primary
producer where they want him. Practi-
cally all farm machinery or tools can be
bought on easy terms through the banks
and financial institutions to increase pro-
duction, but when it comes to the disposal
of land products the producer is left out
on a limb.
First has to be surmounted the
Socialist scheme of Government-to-
Government trading with the producer
hardly consulted, but providing a con-
tinual world-wide holiday jaunt for poli-
ticians at the producers’ expense.
If that be overcome we then find
a board that sits in some city office, sur-
rounded by bureaucrats and “fixers,”
decreeing when or how cue’s products
are to be disposed of and at what price,
the failure to observe any of its
dictates being a heavy fine or jail, or both.
And then the producer is compelled to
use a State monopolised transport system.
All legislation seems to be aimed to
make conditions such that roads and rail-
ways lead to the metropolis and its
markets, and all done to rob the primary
producer of his just rights. He is often
bogged down to the axles on his mud
road, or finds it almost bankruptcy to
use his own transport in “competition”
with the railways.
If our derelict socialised railway
system were torn up and all-weather
roads were put down in their place, and
in every corner of the land there were
traffickable roads laid down (to be kept
in order by the petrol taxes and by
finance collected from taxes contributed
for defence needs), we would almost
overnight halve production costs and at
the same time create reasonable living
conditions for primary producers. —
L.S.L. (N.S.W.).
Farmers* Sons
John Alderson, bemoaning the fact
that farmers’ sons do not stay on the
land (B. 20/5/’53), misses one of the most
vital essentials for potential farmers —
love of the land. To anyone who has
no pride in possession of that particular
area under his control, or the desire to
match his mind and strength with Nature,
farming is a drudgery.
Farmers’ sons don’t only become
engineers and chemists —they also become
policemen, clerks, postal employees, etc.,
not because there is no agricultural
college handy, but because of their own
choice, bolstered by a determination not
to be a farmer.
In country towns most people are
familiar with the Main-street farmers —
cockies who put in most of their time
holding up veranda-posts and talking
about the weather. The circumstances
that put many of these men on the land
did a bad job for the nation, A farmer’s
son who needs a special education to
encourage his inclination to carry on
Dad’s work would merely be another
recruit for Main-street.
Let’s have Agricultural Colleges by
all means, t nt not for those whose only
link with fanning is the desire of their
parents to keep them on the land. — Ann
(N.S.W.).
Licence to Maim?
Legislation does not always achieve the
results intended. Compulsory third-party
insurance became law in N. S. Wales on
February 3, 1943. It may have safe-
guarded the interests of injured persons
with regard to compensation, but it cer-
tainly hasn’t reduced the number of per-
sons injured.
Figures supplied by the Road Safety
Council show a steady increase in the
number of accidents in comparison with
the number of vehicles registered. In
the year before insurance (1942) there
were 7775 accidents as against 288,789
vehicles; roughly one accident per every
37 vehicles. For the year ended June 30,
1952, the figures were 22,662 accidents
for 613,752 vehicles —one accident for
every 27 vehicles.
Figures don’t always prove the point,
but how are we to explain the ever-
increasing “toll of the road”? Is it be-
cause we have a large number of irre-
sponsible' motorists who take the view
that, nc matter what they destroy, insur-
ance will pay the costs? If third-party
insurance were withdrawn and the indi-
vidual had to pay the full costs himself
there would very likely be a considerable
drop in the number of accidents. —
Centurion (N.S.W.).


THE ONE-TOOL
WORKSHOP...
for profit or pleasure
: m
m
■ • j.'
Does all kinds of odd jobs
faster, easier. SHOPSMITH is
the power tool that 600,000
Americans have bought. It does
1001 woodworking jobs. .. .
takes little space, less 5ki11....
changes quickly from tool to
tool to multiply your savings
and your fun!
(1) As a Circular Saw.
(2) As a Disc Sander
(3) As a Lathe
m
(4) As a Drill Press (5) As a Horizontal Drill
SHOPSMITH
WOOD-WORKING
MACHINE
In a matter of moments, Shop-
smith can be adapted for use as
a . . . Disc Sander, Drill Press,
Circular Saw, Horizontal Drill,
or Wood Lathe. Shopsmith’s
rugged, practical design allows
for accurate duplication of any
precision job. Powered by a
dependable \ h.p. electric
motor (Motors to suit local
conditions—A.C. or D.C. also
available).
SHOPSMITH may be pur-
chased on the most attractive
easy terms.
Multi-
purpose
Multi-
profit
Manufactured by
C. C. ENGINEERING INDUSTRIES LTD.
under license from Magna Engineering Corp., U.S.A.
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. (Sydney Metropolitan Area)
C. C. DISTRIBUTORS PTY. LTD.
213 Bridge Road, Glebe, N.S.W.
Demonstration & Showroom: 125 a York St., Sydney. 8X7044
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd., Sydney. Nock & Kirby Ltd., Sydney.
N.S.W. C Country Distributors )
A. J. Ellerker, 63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victoria: J. R. Hall & Co., 50.0 Bourke St., Melbourne. Hardware Co. of
Australia, 71-75 Queen’s Bridge St., South Melbourne.
West Australia: Watson Bros. Pty. Ltd., 363 Murray St., Perth.
South Australia: Harris Scarfe Ltd., Grenfell St., Adelaide.
Queensland: Ellerker Bros., 261 Wickham St., Valley, Brisbane.
Tasmania: J. R. Hall & Co„ 50 Esplanade, Uevonport.
Missing Friend
PURCELL.—PATRICK PURCELL, a son
of PHILLIP PURCELL and SARAH BAL-
LARD, was bom at Brighton, Victoria,
about the year 1861, and married Miriam
Coleman at Clareval, near Stroud, New
South Wales, on 14th January, 1891. The
said Patrick Purcell, or any person having
knowledge concerning him, is requested to
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
V
.Os
ftM
IN
BOH®
*D%c''&&£•
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: S.P.O Box 3583,
SYDNEY • S.P.O. Sox 4058, MELBOURNE • S.P.O.
Box 712 E. ADELAIDE • S.P.O. Box 758 K. BRISBANE
• S.P.O Box 588. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
TILLEY Regd. Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
fd
While import restrictions
remain you may have diffi-
culty in obtaining TILLEY
products.
For quality—for economy—for safety you must choose
this TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246 ! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on IJ pints of Kero, 300 Candle Rower.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores MODEL X 246
Manufacturer’s Representatives: (“THE GUARDSMAN”)
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.I.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Land-improvement
“Rooster”: The Mitchell
Bros.’ property of over 1000
acres, near Bairnsdale (Vic.),
shows up all the faults and
futility of the unimproved pro-
perties surrounding it. The
Mitchell acres carry 206-head of
cattle and 1619 sheep, the latter
producing 141 b. of wool per
acre. Elsewhere in the district
one dry sheep per acre is con-
sidered good going.
The property is subdivided
into 20 paddocks, and it is likely
to be still further subdivided.
The standard fences have nine
posts to two chains, split
droppers, with seven wires (one
barbed, the rest plain). Watering
is well managed. Catchment-
dams serve four paddocks, the
water pumped into concrete
troughs. Drainage is thorough.
The Mitchells show judgment
by using kikuyu-grass to colonise
the Ught sandy areas, subduing
the ferns which thrive thereon.
The well-supered flats encourage
the white-clover, introduced
strains being applied at the rate
of l 2 L lb. an acre; fresh strains
of perennial-rye-grass maintain a
balance at 31b. an acre.
Paspalum, the summer standby,
yields good coverage; the
Mitchells have 35 acres of it,
obtained by mixing 21b. of seed
with super, and sowing it into
a growing oat crop. Topdressed
paddocks of native clovers and
grasses improve the quality and
growth; stock thrive on such
pastures, and even sheep tackle
the rougher, coarser grasses thus
treated.
Soil Conditioners
“Condo”: Soil-conditioners of
American origin are mostly de-
rived from the gums (or resins)
contained in humus. These
resins are eventually decomposed
by micro-organisms in the soil,
but some of them are longer-
lasting than others. It is from
these that the synthetic condi-
tioners have been produced.
The important point about
these conditioners is that they
are not carried in solution
through the soil beneath them.
They are able only to stabilise
the structure of the soil with
which they are mixed and as they
find it.
They will not, for instance,
make good soil out of raw sub-
soil. The soil to be treated has
first to be worked up thoroughly
into a good tilth, and the con-
ditioner very thoroughly and
intimately mixed with it. The
conditioner then has the power
of stabilising that good tilth,
preventing it from going out of
condition for a considerable
time.
One Italian product is an
organic compound of ammoni-
ated iron which works in a
different way.
Oats for Poultry
“M.”: Tests at the State Re-
search Farm, Werribee (Vic.), to
determine the comparative feed-
ing-value of oaten and wheaten
grain for poultry showed that
oats may entirely replace wheat,
causing only a small drop in
egg-production.
This drop is believed to be
.due to the husk on the oat,
which slightly reduced its food-
value, but the lower cost of oats
more than made up for the
decline.
When first introducing oats
to the ration, the researchers
recommend feeding only a small
quantity, gradually increasing
the daily portion until oats
comprise the bulk of the grain
fed. Poultry, they found, which
were normally fed wheat pre-
ferred it, and wasted a lot of
oats if oats were abruptly sub-
stituted.
Cauliflower Hints
“Farmer Bill”: Regular culti-
vation will help the cauliflower
crop develop quicker. Ridging
the soil to provide better drain-
age and help support the plants
should be done before they are
too large. As the crop is in the
soil for a lengthy . period,
nourishment should be built up
with a side-dressing of nitrate-of-
soda or sulphate-of-ammonia
when the final ridging is being
done.
Cauliflowers do well in a wide
range of soils, but acid soils
induce clubfoot, a fungus
disease. Affected plants make
little growth since the swollen
foot-system cuts off most of the
food-supply. Applications of
lime to the soil before planting
usually forestall this trouble.
When the disease is severe or the
soil very acid, lib. of carbonate-
of-lime per square yard should
be given the first year prior to
planting followed by ilb. per
"You ’aven't bin lookin' too Well lately, Molly. Y '
oughter see th' doctor."
square yard in succeeding years.
Acid fertilisers such as sulphate-
of-ammonia should be cut out.
Burn all affected plants.
Overcrowding usually causes
downy mildew. Best remedy for
this is to spray the plants with
Bordeaux mixture (3:4:50) at
seven-to-10-day intervals. White
butterfly, one of the worst pests,
can be held in check by applica-
tions of D.D.T. 2 per cent, dust
every two weeks, or D.D.T.
50 per cent, wettable powder at


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC.
f
hygeia dissolvenator
gives you the advantages of sewerage no
matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
f
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into tbe soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
—’ DISTRIBUTORS :
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. 00.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solvenator 00. (S.A.), 229 a Rundle
St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne, or Win. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
f)ARWIN; O. T. See Eee, Radolectrix
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Trading Co., Mercantile Bank
Chambers, Raffles Place.
SIMPLEX
300 WATT, 12 VOLT
Generating
Set
PRICE
£75
Weight
Wlbs.
df
Sturdy battery - charging and
lighting set. 12 Volt or 32 Volt.
Ideal Unit for Lighting Shearers’
Quarters.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
HAND MADE
ELASTIC - SIDE
RIDING BOOTS
A boot of smart
appearance that
will give comfort
and service.
d
In best quality tan calf. Welted
soles and heels. Sizes, 3-10.
Price, 79/6. Postage paid.
John Charlton & Co.
71 Sailors’ Bay Road, Northbridge,
Sydney.
fdf
HURTS
Circular Charts for all typo*
of oecordin9 Irutrumonts
•or Mf cl«>a «*• H»cl*U*ory
or Equipment
METER CHARTS • Specialty
jxcWWtf VAN^
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
II K WITH
4G4
—-utt
Perfect Meals . . .
and Piping-Hot Water in
Kitchen and Bathroom!
It’s a wise husband who buys his wife an Aga, so they
both “live happily ever after”. With the two capacious
Aga ovens and the two efficient hot-plates you can
prepare the most wonderful meals, efficiently and
easily; and so coolly, too—thanks to Aga’s insulation.
This amazing coke-burning Cooker is ready for service
day or night, yet its low fuel consumption is guaran-
teed! The Aga is also quite impervious to power
restrictions and blackouts. Furthermore, the Aga Model
C.B. gives you an efficient hot-water service, and
piping-hot baths every day, from the same single fire!
10 YEARS GUARANTEE
The British-built Ago
Is guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in N.Z. In 1841)
Australian Agents
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA ______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA _ _ _ _ 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA _ _ _ _ A. G. WEBStER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS _ _ _ MALLOCH BROS. Ltd., Pert!
Y THE A
AG A
COOKER J
df
SURROUND
YOUR FIRESIDE
WITH BEAUTY
AT SURPRISINGLY
LOW COST
DESIGN: No. 8j HEIGHT: 3'7}"i
WIDTH: 6'6i"; PRICE (at works):
£l2/18/6
Add the finishing touch to your living-room.
Instal a ceramic glazed buff-white Terra Cotta
Surround; designs are readily available for open
and gas fires and "Kosi”, "Wonderheat and
“Warmray" stoves.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, or write to
Wunderlich Limited, Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney, for
illustrated booklet of designs and fixing details.
IREPLACE SURROUNDS
OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
the rate of lib. in 100 gallons of
water. When aphides attack one
part of nicotine-sulphate in 600
parts of water plus 31b. of good
soap is an effective spray.
Repeat when new attacks occur.
Spraying the crop with a good
brand of white spraying-oil
often renders it immune to both
these last diseases.
Soil Fertility
‘■Spudato”: Seventy-five per
cent, or more of the potato land
in N.S.W. tableland regions has
been cropped to the point of
low-yielding capacity, and some
of it to exhaustion. This is
largely why the average yield of
potatoes in N.S.W. is only a
little over 2 tons per acre, while
good crops may yield 10 tons.
Lack of organic matter is the
chief defect. Its replenishment
is the first need to restore this
land.
The high returns from sheep
in the immediate past has meant
a wonderful chance to provide
good feed for sheep and re-
juvenate the soil with improved
pastures.
Even without improved pas-
tures there is no reason why
potatoes in tableland regions
should not be grown on a bal-
anced system which promotes
soil-fertility instead of ruining it.
A demonstration of how
badly run-down potato-land may
be recreated is now being under-
taken by Guyra Potato Growers’
Association and N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture.
Sunn-hemp
“Juncea”: No country in the
world is so dependent upon
green-manure to maintain soil-
fertility as India, where the most
outstanding leguminous crop so
used is Sunn- or Sann-hemp. It
is one of the fastest-growing
green-manure plants known, and
so need not occupy the land for
very long.
An annual legume which re-
quires a warm climate with
summer rainfall, on the N.S.W.
North Coast it has made growth
of 3ft. to 4ft. in six to eight
weeks after sowing.
The crop seeds well, but so
far no commercial seed has yet
become available in Australia.
With publicity it could be in
demand —if someone will import
seed from India.
Hybrid Maize
“Y. Dent”: Record yields
have come from crops in hybrid-
maize in inland N.S.W. districts
this year. In the Royal Agri-
cultural Society’s maize-growing
championship 34 separate crops
have given an average of 143
bushels to the acre.
W. D. Kerle, maize expert,
claims this to be the highest
average recorded in a compe-
tition in N.S.W. The three best,
all hybrids, would produce 155,
150 and 125 bushels an acre.
R. L. S. Boyce and D. F.
Smith, of Warrangunyah, Ilford,
won the championship with
Emblem hybrid, and this variety
won first four places in the
Mudgee local competition, first
and third at Gundagai and third
at Tumut.
Kerle said the results could
be attributed mainly to good
farming practices, because none
of the crops was irrigated and
the season was far from ideal.
A six-weeks dry period occurred
in February and March. Another
factor was the use of high-
fertility soil and use of recom-
mended hybrid varieties by all
but one of the competitors.
The winning crop was grown
on alluvial soil, in an old lucerne-
paddock that was cropped with
oats, then let lie for five years
in pasture. The land was disk-
ploughed in May and June and
again not long before sowing.
Just before seeding a tandem-
disk plough was used. Sowing
took place in the sepond week
of October with a single dropper
in rows 3ft. apart, with lewt. of
super, per acre.
The season was poor in the
Northern Tablelands districts.
Mid-February rain was very
heavy, falls of up to 12in. in 10
days occurring. This was at a
time when the maize was tassel-
ling, and in many places bad
pollination occurred. The best
crop was grown by W. B. Fooks,
Vanina, Tilbuster (D.S. 2-1
hybrid), estimated yield 85
bushels an acre.
Hints for the Farm
“C.A.A.”: Rough grass pad-
docks can be improved by
systematically spreading mea-
dow-hay over the poorer parts
of the farm during autumn and
winter, combined with an annual
application of lewt. of super
per acre. After the first two or
three years improvement of
scrub- and bracken-country will
be pronounced, and will allow
longer periods between top-
dressings.
“D.J.H.”: A large white sow
in Victoria recently had a litter
of 29 piglets—l 6 at first, 11 six
days later and two more a few
hours later, 22 of the farrowing
surviving. In three litters she
has produced 55 offspring.
“Sundowner”: To check
feather-picking and cannibalism
in poultry try hanging silver-
beet from the roof for birds to
pick at; add whole-oats to grass
ration (feed part of grain in
litter to keep the birds occu-
pied) ; increase salt content of
mash for two or three days (on
a mash-grain ration 4 per cent,
of salt may safely be added).
“Big Billy”: In warmer dis-
tricts not subject to cold winds,
peas may be sown in June, with
plantings delayed until July in
colder areas. Don’t sow in
soaked soil and don’t soak seeds
before sowing. Place them in
a well-drained bed with a sunny
position.
“Springvale”: A Bordeaux
or copper-oxychloride spray
should be applied to broad-
beans before wet and cold
weather sets in as a precaution
against the bean-rust and -spot
which often attacks unsprayed
beans in mid-winter or during
cold and dull weather. Celery
should be treated with the same
spray against fungus troubles.
“Myrr”: The storage-life of
potatoes can be extended con-
siderably by use of a dust con-
taining 2.4 'per cent, isopropyl-
phenyl-carbamate. Enough of
it to treat a bag can be bought
for 3s. to 4s. For small quan-
tities divide the bag into two
separate lots and dust the tubers
by rolling them from end to
end of the closed bag a couple
of times. Treated potatoes can
be held for six months, remain-
ing firm and fresh without
sprouting, but there is a small
loss in weight. Palatability and
cooking-quality are unimpaired.
“Toggenburg”; Like most
animals, goats should be bathed
everv few weeks, with a good
soaping first and bicarbonate of
the rinse-water,
If he is free from lice the buck
will not need more frequent
baths unless you object to the
smell. English breeders use a
chemical preparation, Odo-
rout,” for muffling the reek it
is sprayed on the buck and can
be used as a snray on clothing
and on the hands.
“Billjim”: Protect bee-combs
aga i nst wax . mo th in hot weather,
Most effective con t r ol in stored
C(Jmbs ig fumigation . stack
su P ers of combs sft high- For
every stack pour one ounce of
carbon-disulphide onto a shal-
low tray and place on top
the combs, then cover and seal
the stack.
,
“Myrr” : Poultry showing the
slightest sign of moult, ry
combs or wattles, excessive pig-
mentation in the shanks an
beak restricted abdomen and
closely-set pelvic-bones should
be culled. Keep birds with deep,
wedge-shaped breasts; long,
straight keels, strong flexible
abdomens ; fine, strong shank-
bones and clearly-defined,
widely-set pelvic-bones.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
Recent southern sunspot activity brought relief ra *” s
in South Australia, over much of Victoria and along the
New South Wales coast. Further north its effects were not
strong enough to materialise the weak cyclical ram points
of 1917, far less those of the longer cycle in 1882, which
as yet shows no sign of gaining dominance.
In the north it should now, under this cycle, be fine
and frosty till about July 10, while along the southern
littoral further rains are likely. In Western Australia ey
may be heavy in the south-west and over most of the
wheat lands.


profession. One seems to
remember a play by Moliere on
the same subject, but that author
doesn’t get a mention. Dr.
Knock is the new physician in
the village who replaces the
amiable father of his people who
kept the village well by assum-
ing that everybody was healthy,
and the chemist starved under
his rule.
Dr. Knock thinks that the only
healthy people are those who do
not know that they are ill, and
that medicine is a divine science
for the sake of which everybody
should get ill. He has such a
flair for diagnosis that he dare
not look at his own face in the
mirror. In due course he bones
the entire village, thermometers
are being shaken in every house-
hold, there are nightlights in
every window, the hotel is turned
into a hospital and the chemist
makes a fortune.
The former doctor returns and
starts to denounce his colleague,
but Dr. Knock has only to cast
his diagnostic eye upon him and
he totters off to bed. Louis
Jouvet gives his usual polished
performance as tlie knocker.
<j+ ♦s.
Other talkies:
“I Confess” (Sydney Century):
The plot of this one, the theme
being the sacerdotal vow of
silence for things heard in the
confessional, is thin, and though
Alfred Hitchcock tries to gear it
to his celebrated spine-chilling
technique, it’s too tame to raise
a squeal from a schoolgirl. With
Ann Baxter, Montgomery Clift
and Brian Aherne.
“Elizabeth Is Queen” (Sydney
Esquire) opens with the cameras
roving over the Royal album.
There is a tour of the Royal
stables and some interesting
close-ups and facts about the
gilded State coach. The Abbey
scenes are excellent.
“It Beats the Band” (Sydney
Mayfair): The band is the
famous one of that prolific com-
poser of military marches, John
Philip Sousa, and the film pur-
ports to be based on his life. It
seems to have beep singularly
devoid of dramatic highlights,
except for the almost monoton-
ous string of musical triumphs
with which it was blessed. It
makes pleasant enough entertain-
ment. With Clifton Webb.
dangerous to women. Perhaps
that was why he was so ruthless,
she thought, smiling, because he
had something feminine in him.
She smiled more broadly as she
wondered what Billy would say
if she revealed her thoughts to
him. He would think she was
mad, qr make a coarse joke of
it. But that wasn’t what she
meant at all —quite otherwise...
Dennis was leaning forward
in the saddle, talking knowingly
about setting hens, and part of
her mind heeded him ; the rest
was occupied with outrageous
thoughts.
She idly noticed that the
sheep had thinned out in the
lane, and she saw the black boy,
Charley’s Johnny, lashing the
two bony nags in Dennis’s
covered-wagon up the lane to
head thfem off. The leaders
would be past the saleyards,
spilling over the fork of the
roads.
Dennis gave Charley’s Johnny
a casual glance and whistled on
two notes. Immediately the red
bitch darted ahead, and the
black dog, hovering around the
wagon, stopped, ears pricked.
Dennis whistled again, and he
flew back, hurdling thistles. She
had a glimpse of him there, near
the angle of the house, standing
on his hind legs to peer over the
backs of the sheep. But he
stayed there and he didn’t bark.
They chatted amiably.
Suddenly she was conscious of
the rain. “I was just going to
make a pot of tea, Mr. Slattery,”
she said formally. “The kettle’s
on. Would you like a cup?”
Dennis beamed. “Now that’s
something—hullo! ” he said
sharply. “How did those sheep
get in there?”
His voice was puzzled, his
brow furrowed. He had taken
off his hat to scratch/his head,
letting the rain fall on it un-
checked. His yellow hair was
straight, scarcely marked with
grey. It darkened swiftly in the
rain.
“My God!” the exclamation
was wrenched out of Mrs. Billy.
“Your sheep—in the oats!”
They-were in the oats, a good
many of them, spread out and
feeding contentedly ; more were
getting through the wires.
“Quick!” said Mrs. Billy, a
multitude of fears aroused. “Get
them out! If 8i11y...”
“Now how did they get in
there?” wondered Dennis.
“8i11y...” faltered his wife.
At that moment the skies
cleared, and a broad path of the
late sun shone through, reveal-
ing the full import of the rape.
There were more sheep than
Mrs. Billy had imagined.
npHEN, as if he had awaited
A this signal, Billy appeared
around the corner of the house.
He walked up to within a foot of
Dennis’s horse and stood there,
his hands on his hips. At his
heels were his two blue cattle-
dogs.
“Get them sheep out of there,
Slattery,” he said grimly.
“Certainly,” said Dennis. “I
was just saying to Mrs. Bower
I can’t think how they got
there....”
“And I’ve just been walking
along my fence and saw where
some mongrel cut the wire. Get
them sheep out of there !”
Dennis didn’t bother replying.
He wheeled his half-draught
like a polo-pony and galloped
ponderously down the lane,
shouting excitedly. He galloped
up and down and shouted and
swore, but the silly dogs didn’t
know what to do? They
frolicked and scampered and
scattered the sheep, then stopped,
ears pricked, held a silent con-
ference, and tore away again,
in the wrong direction. Some-
times they would get a little mob
near the wire, only to have it
break away again. And while
these little mobs were cunningly
manoeuvred the main mob went
on contentedly feeding.
“Bloody useless dogs,” puffed
Dennis, back again on his blow-
ing horse. “Ought to get rid of
them. Git over,” he bellowed,
standing in his stirrups, “you
dirty mongrel, you!”
“The best sheep-dogs in the
district,” said Billy, quietly,
bitterly. “You big lying
robber!” he shouted, the veins
standing out on his neck and
forehead, his eyes bulging. “Who
do you think you’re putting it
over? Get them sheep out,” he
said more quietly, “or they will.”
He pointed to the two cattle-
dogs, whining and weaving.
“They’ll get ’em out for you.
Only they’ll kill more than they
get out.”
Dennis made a small move-
ment with the reins. “Give me
that pick-handle. Mum,” Billy
said, holding out his broad hand.
Mrs. Billy stooped under the
tank and silently handed it over
the fence to him. “Now, you
big bastard,” Billy said with
grim satisfaction, brandishing
the pick-handle like a baseball-
bat. “Just get down off that
horse and I’ll bring you down
to my level quick, you big
bastard, you!”
“Why, Mr. Bower,” Dennis’s
voice was soft, soothing, “I
don’t want any trouble, I’m
sure. Especially,” with a keen
blue glance under his sagging
brim, across the fence, “in front
of Mrs. Bower.”
T>UT Billy, with the bit be-
-■"* tween his teeth, was an
exultant Hampden, “Just get
down off that horse, do,” he
begged. He capered, the pick-
handle held high. “Just get
down, you’re such a big man.”
Dennis smiled pleasantly.
“Yah!” said Billy.
“There’s some sort of a mis-
take. ..” hinted Dennis.
But this only roused Billy to
fresh fury. He danced and
threatened for a couple of
minutes before he remembered
the sheep. “Get them sheep,”
he said heavily, leaning on the
axe-handle, “or I’ll set my dogs
on them.”
This time Denny gave his
peculiar whistle, and in no time
the sheep were in the lane again
being forced along towards the
saleyards.
“And just remember,” Billy
yelled after Dennis’s broad back,
“I’m not frightened of you,
Dennis Slattery!”
Dennis turned round; “I’m
quite sure you’re not, Billy,” he
said gravely.
TT was not until he had been
A gone sometime that Billy re-
membered the poddy lambs.
He looked for them, of course,
that night, and next morning,
where he found most of them,
outside the saleyards, where
Dennis had virtuously placed
them.
“Got mixed up with, my sheep
somehow,” he told an interested
crowd. But two of the best, and
fattest, were never found, in the
saleyard, or anywhere else.
Strangely enough, the loss of
the poddy lambs did not worry
Billy very much. At least, the
memory did not rankle.
“That big so-and-so won’t
come round here again,” he
assured his wife at tea that night,
and for several nights after.
“I gave him something for his
corner,” he told them all at work.
“ ‘Get down off that horse, I
said, if you’re a man at all.’ ”
He honestly added the bit
about the pick-handle. Taking
the incident all round, Billy was
satisfied. Dennis was satisfied,
too.
I regain the bridge in time to,
see this forming-up, Mark 1953.
Bataan, the leader, is nothing but
a pin-point of sternlight far
ahead in the rainy blackness.
Tobruk has been ordered to take
station astern of her, distance
between ships one mile.
A voice reaches the captain,
standing oilskinned and in re-
spected isolation behind the com-
pass, the faint light from the
binnacle running little swords of
light along the brim of his wet
sou’wester.
“Range five thousand yards,
sir.”
That is a radar-range. The
reports continue—“ Four thod-
sand, three thousand.” We
plunge on through the invisible
ridges, Bataan’s light seeming, to
the naked eye, to be the same
distance ahead. Then “Two
thousand yards, sir.”
The captain bends to the
wheelhouse voice-pipe.
“Revolutions oh - nine - oh.
Steer by Bataan.”
“Steer by Bataan, sir” —fol-
lowed by the clang of engine-
room telegraphs. Tobruk settles
into position, exactly one mile
astern of the leader.
Her starshell firing had been
accurate. All right. That type
of firing almost always has been
—wind can drift a poorly-aimed
shell into position; the glow
spreads over a considerable area
Firing in full broadsides at a
battle-practice-target in daylight
I wanted to see.
I did, next day. Sea, choppy ;
wind, strong; own speed, 26
knots; range eight miles; target
moving on opposite course. This
would be the test.
It was ludicrously easy.
Tobruk opened in full broad-
sides, smothered the target in
leaping columns of water, tore
through its latticed sides. And
all the time the Cyclops eyes
stared with steady, malignant
purpose at the target. It was
the finest shooting I had seen.
Not the old ranging shots I
knew, one short, one over, the
third, if you were lucky, on the
target. But every broadside,
from four guns capable of 25
rounds a minute, laid exactly on
the distant black-draped lattice-
work.
The cease-fire bells shrilled.
Further firing would be a waste
of ammunition.
We head back to J.B. Two
thoughts interest me, and the
gunner—also of the old school.
A hit amongst that packed bank
of 800 valves in the transmitting-
station. And the reflection that
War II Navy men will need a
mighty intensive conversion
course if they’re to be any good
among the electronics of the
present-day Fleet.
Artbursts
Paintings by Wlsdyslav Dutkie-
wicz are at the Peter Bray Gal-
lery in Melbourne and those of
Henry Hanke at the Sedon. Mr.
Dutkiewicz got his art educa-
tion in the academies of Poland,
travelled in France, Italy and
Germany, and then had his
studies disrupted by the Hitlerian
upheaval. But, in spite of en-
forced restrictions, he was still
able to experiment in his expres-
sionism, then came to Adelaide
and in 1951 won the Correll
Prize for contemporary paint-
ing. Mr. Hanke studied with
Dattilo Rubbo, and during the
depression caused a sensation
by winning the Archibald Prize.
After the last war he went to
Europe and has come back com-
pletely untouched by the modern
movements. His line is still as
accurate as ever, or possibly
more so, while Mr. Dutkiewicz’s
line is wild and whirling. Mr.
Dutkiewicz’s colors are almost
as slaphappy as an infant’s and
his forms whizz in all direc-
tions. In fact, some of his pic-
tures look remarkably like Mr.
Hanke’s seen in a distorting-
mirror. Mr. Hanke seems to
have more real skill, however,
or he couldn’t have painted
“November Morning, Hammer-
smith,” where he reflects the cold
mood of autumn much more
sensitively than the New Aus-
tralian reflects the mood of
“Windy Day” or “Summer
Shadow.”
❖ * ❖
A mixed show at Tye’s
Gallery in Melbourne has some
solid painting in it—a Paris scene
by Max Meldrum, another by
Harley Griffiths and an early
sketch by Colin Colquhoun
before he went to Europe. Moya
Dyring’s “Toulon Waterfront” is
fresh in color and Max Middle-
ton’s “Clearing on St. Ives” has
feeling. Reshid Bey’s “The
Clown” has an illustrative
brilliance as well as quality of
painting.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 231
Across
I—Map-maker1—Map-maker accommodates an
English school’s addresses for
Carthusian monks. (13)
B—Jonathan8 —Jonathan and John may be
drunk. (9)
10 — Attack with broken stone. (5)
11 — Clara Bow’s oomph. (2)
12 — They keep the heat in the pots
wherein 1 see a Scot. (3-6)
14 — Fairy. (3)
15 — Tommy sometimes qualifies this
balderdash. (3)
16 — Runner who locates the China-
man whose name used to be mys-
teriously written on walls? (4-5)
18 — Srevo obeys pancakes. (9)
19 — Archer has this to defer to. (3)
20 — Phoebus has a French halfpenny.
(3)
21 — Author of “The Timeless Land”
with the kind of “Time” in an
• operetta shade. (4, 5)
23 — Boy, this is what the children of
Reuben and of Gad called their
altar. (2)
24 — Repetitious song beat a bit of a
box like a globe. (5)
25 — Republic where Ramona’s in
hiding. (3, 6)
26 Having no nap but a screwy
characteristic with nudity. (14)
Down
1 — Who stack King John’s document
in a Queensland town? (7, 7)
2 Paver who arrests a serpent? (9)
3 Ken’s part of a forest apple for
quiz-kid Beerbohm. (4, 2,9)
4 This is all right about a wood. (3)
5 Hamlet gets a drink in Mel-
bourne. (4, 3,1, 7)
6 Cheeky donkey in a steam-yacht.
(5)
7 X. McCabe sketched the South
Carolina bearer of bad news to
Macduff when the Australian
cathedral’s irritated. (2, 7,5)
9—Baba has a distance in China. (3)
13 —Demonstrates how to occupy a
steamer. (5)
16— This is the devil if upset over
the finish. (5)
17 — A small party of political in-
triguers to row like a horse with a
fashionable dance in the Hall. (9)
20—A hush disturbs the mother of
Judah’s children. (5)
22—It breaks a duck where chickens
are raised. (3)
25 —Two-up (Spanish) for the turf
cad. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 230


. j
I j
:; % -■:•>£
iiiill
'■ V :
iiiiii
n
ipip^Sil*
'• L.S
« * if/W’ i
■ ,
iv/ava-as;
ggsSjs?s
'' ' W
H
;H
• ■ ■ ‘ »BWE ■• •.
yW : :: v ; • •• > 3S&& A■• • £
■
■ ss
% «v¥ ;
1
V **
-M s
m
mmmMmmmmmmm
'. •. • A • X-Xw ..; •” v. S»Sgg?
■ '
.
l*«~. m
".''V-
».
~:■
■
HMH
■BHi,|i ■ ■
■
■■ :
v ,
’
k j
mm
< s*f
*
.
\m
smmm
mmmm
.. 3
¥^ : ¥¥sHg§a
mMmmmmmmm
£ <I |S®'BS ! SP' S, ■'-■■ //C .'
aJf
->: •
• * - * ' » i
'*•’’ y. • • -• *x • :>.' ls« af✓ a§* w.
aws
nw
iiiiiiiiii
'* I
• ... •: :
mm
s S^qSSSSSQ
(
r
*
mmmimmm
■M
-
Ia 1 - I >H x ■» I
.
s:s;£■s• \ x ■
J
o
CATERPILLAR
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
means
IL©W7
©©gT
CATERPILLAR
Registered Trade Mark
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT • INDUSTRIAL ENGINES
STINGS
a
ueensland
HASTINGS DEERING - QUEENSLAND PTY.
LTD.
102-124 Melbourne St.. South Brisbane
Phone J 1456 (6 lines)
BRANCH: ERNEST ST.. INNISFAIL
Phone 475


N.S.W.; Moffat-Virtue Ltd., Engineers, Manu-
facturers, Machinery Merchants, Epsom
Road, Rosebery, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND: Moffat-Virtue (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.,
Brisbane, Toowoomba and Lismore, N.S.W.’
VICTORIA: Grazcos Co-operative Limited,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Adelaide Stockowners’ Co-
operative Shearing Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith & Co.
Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Hobart and Launceston.
M.V. AGRICULTURAL NEWS.
This entire page Is a PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Prepared monthly by MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED
June
A monthly feature for all those interested in Agriculture
1953
DIFFICULT FUTURE FOR WOOL INDUSTRY?
Experts’ Warnings on Synthetics and Rising Costs
The majority of well-informed opinion forsees a challenge to wool markets by the new synthetic fibres
within a few years. The wool industry generally will need to consolidate its present markets by increasing
quality and lowering costs.
Although the world production of
Wool (clean weight) is estimated
at about 2,300 million lbs., syn-
thetic fibre production is expected
shortly to exceed 500 million lbs.
equivalent weight, or almost a
quarter of the present wool pro-
duction.
The sharp decline in the use of
wool in the U.S. has prompted
the Boston (U.S.) Wool Trade
Association (which handle almost
all Australian Wool coming into
America) to launch a huge pub-
licity drive to “recapture some of
the market lost, and to maintain
the markets the trade now has.”
The alarming state of affairs is
shown by these figures from a U.S.
report on Wool consumption
there:
In 1946 and ’47, 99% of all
women’s untrimmed coats made
in America were all-wool. By
1952, the percentage dropped to
83.5 p.c. In women’s suitings, an
89% use of wool in 1946 fell to
only 34.1% in 1952. 92% of
men’s suits sold in 1952 contained
50% or more synthetic fibres!
WARNING ON
HIGH PRODUCTION COSTS
Mr. T. J. McDougall, General
Secretary of the Farmers &
Settlers’ Association, said recently
that the “inherent danger in the
present situation (of the Wool
Market) is rising costs of pro-
duction.”
The cost of production factor is
perhaps more important even than
the comparison of the inherent
qualities of wool as against syn-
thetics. Synthetics can and are
being produced which surpass
wool in many important respects
(such as wearing quality, quick-
drying, fire and wrinkle resistance,
etc.). However, in America
Dynel, one of the latest synthetic
fibres, is priced around 1.28
dollars (U.S.) a pound, compared
with wool at around 1.70 dollars
a pound.
Mass production techniques are
bound to push general Synthetics
prices to lower levels. In addition,
Synthetics are ready for manu-
facture into yarn as soon as they
are produced ... no cleaning,
scouring, no grading or sorting
problems to boost production
costs.
Only last week a large wool-
buying firm warned that wool
which carried excessive tar-
branding would not be valued.
This move was made because Con-
tinental Wool Mills were faced
with a major problem in tar-
stained wool since wool prices
had risen,
Ihe huge firms developing the
Synthetics Industries in America
and England are pouring billions
of pounds into research, develop-
ment and publicity.
The indications are that the Wool
Industry must move quickly to
foster research into its own pro-
blems, and make every effort to
lower production-costs and con-
solidate its markets. Otherwise it
might be too late!
Even on the “Long
blow” Moffat - Virtue
Gear maintains a
smooth, steady, drive
to the handpiece...
because it incorporates
the independently
suspended “Full-float-
ing Transmission,"
which eliminates any
drag op the cone
pulley from the hand-
piece, no matter how
hard the shearer pulls.
SATISFACTORY
WOOL PRICES
FOR 1953
Wool Cheque up by 15 p.c.
since last season.
If this trend continues, a record
wool cheque for 1952-53 is ex-
pected. This may be in the
vicinity of £375 million, or the
second highest in Australian
history.
A comparative scale of recent
Australian Wool Prices shows a
sharp rise during 1952-53.
1952. 70’s Super Av.
April 4th. 138 133
June 2 7th. 178 171
Dec. i 9th 196 183
195 3.
Jan. 16th. 200 187
Feb. 20th. 197 184
March 20th. 206 194
The likelihood of a record Wool
Cheque has been due, to a large
extent, to the increased wool-
yield per sheep. The average
carrying oapac tely to be
an all-time high, at 10.75 lbs.
The average is about 2 lbs. higher
than last season, although, due to
the continued run of good seasons
since 1950, many N.S.W. Graziers
have cut as much as 3 lbs. more
wool per sheep than last year.
Wool yield per sheep in N.S.W.,
1876-1953.
1876 . 4.75 lbs.
1890 5.5 „
1900 6.9 ..
1914 ...... . 8.0
1925 8.75 „
1930 7.5 „
1939 10.24,,
1950 9.57
1953 * 10.75 ~
* Estimated figures only.
An indication of the prevailing
heavier fleeces has been the
general falling-off in the daily
tallies of shearers. This fact has
stressed the need for the modern-
isation of the shearing gear in
many sheds.
HEAVIER FLEECES MADE OLD SHEARING
GEAR OBSOLETE...
Moffat-Virtue’s improved shearing
Machinery was specially designed to
overcome the problems presented by
the increasing wool carrying capacity
of sheep.
A glance at the list on the right will
show how wool yields have risen
steadily over the years, and an all-time
record is anticipated this year.
By 1930 it had become obvious that
old principles of shearing design would
have to be scrapped. Moffat-Virtue
engineers commenced investigations
which produced an entirely new shear-
ing Gear design.
The first new departure was the intro-
duction of self-aligning ball-bearings
onto the shafting. This lowered the
horsepower required to drive the gear
and prevented oil from getting onto the
cone-pulley from the shafting. Moffat-
Virtue gear introduced the exclusive
shock-absorber spring and "Full-
Floating Transmission.” The shock-
absorber spring provides automatic
protection against Burrs and other ob-
structions, reducing Comb and Cutter
breakages to a minimum.
The Exclusive Full-Floating Trans-
mission puts the gear in the lead for
quality and reliability. This special
drive prevents wasteful second cuts in
heavy fleeces, “Drag” on the cone-
pulley from, the downtube is eliminated,
and a constant cutter-speed is main-
tained even when the shearer pulls
hard on the downtube on the "long-
blow.”
In shearing sheds throughout the
Commonwealth, Moffat-Virtue Shear-
ing machinery has proved the most
up-to-date and dependable gear ever
built. Full details may be obtained from
any of the distributors listed below.
THE FAMOUS
MOFFAT-YIRTUE
No. 8 BALL-BEARING
HEADGEAR
It features:
• A simplicity of design.
The exclusive M.V.
Cone assembly.
• Weight of the downtube
is independent of the
revolving mechanism.
® Completely sealed self-
aligning ball races.
