

FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS
BUY SEPPELTS SOLERO SHERRY
The Bulletin
THE KON-TIKI MARE’S-NEST
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3809
Wednesday, February 11, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Jeppelts
HERSTMONCEUX CASTLE, HOME OF GREENWICH OBSERVATORY
One of the architectural jewels of Sussex is Herstmonceux Castle lying in
a quiet valley eight miles from Eastbourne. Like Bodiam Castle, Herst-
monceux is surrounded by a moat, but unlike any other castle in Britain, it
is built of Flemish brick, now mellowed to a silver-grey, and was one of the
first to be constructed of this material.
The Castle was built in 1440 at a cost of £3,800 by Sir Roger de Fiennes,
who fought at the Battle of Agincourt and subsequently became treasurer to
Henry VI. It was built near the site of a manor-house belonging to the
Monceux family who married into the de Hersts —after whom the Castle and
village are jointly named. Herstmonceux was designed as a stately domestic
residence and yet, with its machicolated towers and battlemented walls, draw-
bridge and portcullis, it had all the traditional elements of defence. Its walls,
over two hundred feet in length, were built in the form of a square, enclosing
four courtyards in which were the galleried living apartments, dairies, brew-
house, kitchens and cellars. One of the finest features of the Castle is the
imposing entrance gateway with its massive flanking towers. On the first
floor of the gatehouse is the Drummer’s Hall, so named because it is supposed
to be haunted by the sound of ghostly drumming.
Many stories are told to account for this strange happening, among them
being that the noise is made by the spirit of a woman who was buried alive
there ; another asserts that the mysterious drumming was made by the spirit
of Lord Dacre, one of the owners of the Castle, in an effort to frighten away
the suitors of his widow when they appeared,
Herstmonceux has many tragic and curious associations. One of its
owners, Lord Dacre, who received Anne of Cleves when she arrived in'England
in 1540, was beheaded for accidentally killing a gamekeeper. A later heiress
is said to have been starved to death in the room known as Lady’s Bower by
her jealous governess. In 1777, owing to a woman’s greed and jealousy, the
interior of the great Castle was dismantled so that the materials could be used
to build a mansion nearby. She anticipated that the Castle would pass to
her husband’s heir and not to apy child of hers. Thus the Castle fell into
ruin until restored in 1933 and it now houses the famous Greenwich Observa-
tory, which moved there in 1940.


'slory Writing
Write now for Stott’s FREE literary
Prospectus, giving full details of Stott’s
Courses on
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.”
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE,
100 Bussell Street, Melbourne, Vic.
-’CUT HERE AND MAIL -
To STOTT’S: Please sefid your Literary
Prospectus, free and without obligation.
My Name
Address
(S.B. 253) Age
The Red Page
CHARLES WHEELER'S ART
Not caring either to rely on memory
or to trust to reproductions—-even those
as decorative and as obviously faithful as
those in The Art of Charles Wheeler
(Lothian)-this reviewer, before discus-
sing the book, sought to renew his
acquaintance with Wheeler’s art at the
N. S. Wales National Gallery: where his
nude, like so many other Australian
paintings, was, of course, languishing in
the cellar.
The Gallery is notoriously too small;
part of it was turned upside-down for
the Archibald Prize, and part of it was in
the process of being painted pink, which
may considerably lighten its gloom; but
it remains a fact that whenever you par-
ticularly want to see any Australian paint-
ing, other than a few established master-
pieces and a few ridiculous recent
acquisitions, it is in the cellar.
A visit to the State talkie-palace, Syd-
ney, where Wheeler in 1929 won a com-
petition, was more profitable. Of the
State pictures, amongst a frail Mary
Edwards, a John D. Moore view of
Bondi with a light charm but without the
fineness of a Gruner or Lance Solomon
seapiece, and a very stiff and formal
early Dobell (the picture, one believes,
with which he won his travelling-scholar-
ship), the paintings which had best
weathered the years seemed to be a
Howard Ashton landscape of the Blue
Mountains and a bright, if shallow, Ray
Lindsay excursion with pirates. The
Wheeler nude, of a studio-model gazing
pensively into a bowl of goldfish, was
pleasant enough, but seemed a rather
mild and modest piece of work to view
in the light of James S. MacDonald’s
exceedingly high valuation of the artist
in the Lothian book:
Wheeler’s paintings of nude women in
studio-settings are equal to the best
ever done, anywhere. With conviction I
declare my belief that, all-round, several of
Wheeler’s nudes are better seen and better
handled than not only those famous Ingres
paintings already named [“Odalisque” and
“La Source”], but Manet’s “Olympia” and
the Rokeby “Venus.” I have also well in
mind Titian’s nude figure in “Sacred and
Profane Love,” with all its golden, rosy
Aphroditean beauty.
Whether he was praising the Australian
artists he admired or attacking the Press,
the moderns and the administration of
the Melbourne National Gallery, J. S.
MacDonald always wrote from a back-
ground of profound knowledge both of
painting and of art-politics, and nobody
could ever say of him, as Dr. Johnson
said of Gray, “He never spoke out.” It
is sad that that noble roaring is heard no
more. But it must be said that he often
marred his case, either for or against an
artist, by overemphasis and, sometimes,
irrelevancy. Thus in the present essay he
spoils a most interesting revaluation of
Conder, whom he sees as essentially an
imitator, influenced by rather than in-
fluencing Tom Roberts and Streeton, with
an attack on the painter as “amoral.”
What have Conder’s morals to do with
the quality of his paint?
Perhaps partly in recoil from this seem-
ingly excessive praise of Wheeler, but also
as an impression from the reproductions,
one is inclined to think that Blamire
Young, quoted indignantly by Mac-
Donald, may have hit on a more correct
estimate when he said the nudes “lacked
focus”: by which he may not have meant,
as MacDonald appears to assume, that
the nude must necessarily be naughty, but
that he did not feel in these paintings the
driving force of genius. The little models
reclining on the couch in the studio or
strewn about paddocks among golden
poplars look like very decorative pieces
of still-life ; which implies a high degree
of craftsmanship but hardly the gaiety of
a Renoir, the immense gusto of a Rubens
or the visionary intensity of a Norman
Lindsay. And in spite of all that is said
about the unimportance of subject-matter,
how anyone can paint life greatly with a
passim only for oil-paint, tone or line,
this commentator does not know.
But MacDonald’s overemphasis apart,
this handsome book, with 15 col or-plates
and 20 in black-and-white, admirably dis-
plays all aspects of Wheeler’s art in what
is unquestionably a distinguished and
always craftsmanlike achievement: a
most suave nude for the frontispiece, the
others precise in the studio and decorative
in the open-air; a few costume-pieces;
meticulously lifelike portraits, including
one charming study of two children ;
and a number of landscapes, among which
the freshness of ‘The Bush Bridge”—as
full of sunlight, warm earth and green
leaves as its title implies—looks particu-
larly attractive.
A student under McCubbin before he
went abroad and exhibited at the Salon in
Paris, Wheeler was for some years head
of both the painting and drawing schools
at the Melbourne National Gallery, He
won the Archibald Prize in 1933 and the
Crouch Memorial Prize in 1932 and
1934; and in the First World War won
another sort of distinction, the D.C.M.
Like so many others among Australia’s
leading artists—James MacDonald lists
Maud Sherwood, James R. Jackson,
Robert Johnson and Septimus Power;
but there are also Wakelin, Low, Unk
White and (at the age of three) Gruner —
he came to Australia from New Zealand.
"Ralph Rashleigh"
M. H. Ellis writes:
Mr. Roderick is easily convinced if he thinks
that my admissions that the existing Rashleigh
MSS. is in Tucker’s handwriting and on paper
made after Greenway was dead “produce the
inescapable corroborative conclusion that James
Tucker was the ‘eccentric genius' who came to
write Ralph Rashleigh.” One might as well
aver that it proves that I wrote the Book of
Job because a copy exists in my writing on
paper made after Job was dead.
I do not know—or care much —whether
Greenway wrote the book. 1 have merely pre-
sented some of the strong internal and histori-
cal evidence. Others, I think, might have claims
to investigation—Mrs. Andrew Baxter, for
instance, resident around Port Macquarie in the
early ’forties, the style and diction of whose
reminiscences have a strange resemblance to
that of Rashleigh.
Most of the main assumptions which Mr.
Roderick thinks go to prove Tucker to be the
author, and many of his historical assertions,
seem to me to fall to the ground under critical
examination. He writes, for instance (pp.
xxxix-xl of his Introduction), that “it may well
be that in 1834 Tucker was under assignment to
a private individual in the Windsor district,”
that “it is significant that when he did get his
first ticket-of-leave in 1835 he elected to remain
in the district of Windsor.” He adds:
The best use he made of his stay at Wind-
sor was to study the character of Benjamin
Hodghon, the Chief Constable upon whom
he drew his Mr. Sobersides. Tucker spent
three years on his ticket in the Windsor
district....
The fact is that Tucker did not go to Windsor
at all. The Mitchell Library Archives (Col. Sec.
In-Letters, Col. Arch., 35/20, 35/5102 and
36/2536) show that on July 7, 1835, three weeks
after obtaining his ticket, he had been employed
as a messenger in Government offices in Sydney
for nearly three years previously; and that he
applied to be allowed to give up his ticket of
leave rather than go to Windsor, which he had
certainly not “elected” as his future residence.
He continued to work in the Emigrant Buildings,
etc., in Sydney until April, 1838, when he was
employed in Sydney as messenger in the Gov-
ernment Colonial Architect’s office and given a
permit to stay there “so long as he remains in
his present employment.”
The most his “eccentric genius” had so far
earned him in his humble convict capacity was a
wage gratuity of Bd. per day, plus 9d. for food
and clothing, awarded him in February, 1835,
after three years’ message-running. Mr. Lewis,
the Colonial Architect, who is supposed to have
“affected his company,” refers to him as “the
prisoner.”
It is no more established to my satisfaction
that he was the author of Rashleigh than it is
that he was the Tucker who went to Stony-
hurst and who, on the evidence of a school
account-book, seems to have been five years
older than himself, or that he was the Tucker —■
apparently 14 years older than himself —who
died on June 11, 1866, in Liverpool Home. As
for my “tardy recollection” of the date of
Greenway’s death, I need only remark that I am
the author of the biography from which Mr.
Roderick appears to have drawn his knowledge
of Green way.
Modern Art
Norman Lindsay’s masterly review (B.
21 /1 / ’53) of the final volume of Sir
Alfred Munnings’s autobiography, The
Finish, particularly his criticism of
modernistic paintings, provides much
food for thought, and it has led me to
endeavor to crystallise my own ideas on
this subject.
When for a short time I studied art
under Julian Ashton, this great teacher
with his usual frankness had much to say
on the pursuit of art as a career. “If
you intend to make art your life’s work,”
he 'said on one occasion, “and you
honestly strive to interpret Nature in its
varying moods, you will never be happy
for you will always be striving for the
unattainable. You will not be satisfied
with your work because pigments can’t
adequately depict Nature’s living color and
its ever-changing subtleties.” But what
Julian Ashton always stressed was sound
draughtsmanship, which is, and must ever
remain, the very basis of all art.
If there is a more difficult profession
than the practice of art I certainly don’t
know what it is, for the road to good
draughtsmanship is uphill, rough and
never-ending. If, then, one travels this
road with sweat and tears towards a goal
that can never be reached, life can’t bring
much satisfaction to the traveller. And
I am convinced that this is the main
reason for the development of the
modernistic school. Its followers are not
prepared to face the travail accompanying
this weary journey up the hill; instead,
they throw draughtsmanship to the winds
and with supreme egotistic cant produce
work that is primitive. But they talk
about it in the abstract in language that
normally educated people can’t under-
stand, and from their imagined lofty
heights express a contemptuous sorrow
for the poor nitwits who fail to appreci-
ate the meaning of their work.
There is no short-cut to true art, and
all the jargon in the world will not sup-
plant honest endeavor.
Some forms of so-called modern art
have a morbid basis, and can result only
from minds that are unhealthy. To some
who cultivate this type of work, beauty
is despised and the horrible things of
life are the artist’s goal. I remember
seeing displayed at a Sydney art show
a landscape in an unrealistic low key
with, dominating the canvas, a figure
covered with syphilitic sores. Is it asking
too much if we want a picture to uplift
and not degrade the mind of the on-
looker?
A few years ago I was invited to see
a screening of some French films lent to
an art society in Detroit, U.S.A. Never
in my life has my mind been so sickened.
The authors of these films probed to the
very depths to depict horror in its starkest
forms. During the course of one picture
a man’s staring eyes looked over the audi-
ence, and this was followed by a close-
up of one eye, across which a razor was
run slitting it from end to end, while
blood and lymph ran down over the lower
eyelid. Could a mind other than one
diseased conceive such a shocking thing?
To some, however, this is art in its highest
form, for these films are proclaimed as
the product of genius.
As for the writings of certain news-
paper art critics, referred to by Norman
Lindsay, the word “blithering?” used by
him aptly describes their effusions. They
are the very ultimate in jargon and are
nothing but verbose monstrosities —
woolly, obscure, meaningless. But per-
haps, after all, they are in tune with the
monstrosities they so frequently laud.
With Norman Lindsay, I sometimes
wonder, if the world ever becomes sane
again, what the people then alive will
think of the so-called art that plagued
the present generation. “Ratbags,” 1
imagine their verdict will be.
T.C. ROUGHLEY.
The Swagman and the Drover
I
The green tree stands on the stone hill,
Its branches in the sky;
The smoke stands up on the blue air,
And Jthere a tramp and drover lie.
From Bourke to Hay, the drover said,
I brought the wethers down
And asked of every man I met
On plain, in iron town.
And I have sat beneath thi® tree
From summer time to spring
And if a cuckoo dropped a note,
Why I was listening.
From Bourke to Hay, the drover said,
The dust cries out for rain;
He always moved a stage ahead
Like mirage on the plain.
Like cloud shadows, the swagman said,
Drovers and sheep go by;
He may have passed while we sat here,
A mate, a bird and I.
The mob drew dust across the plain,
A hawk hung up above;
And if a lark or lizard moved,
My eye would see it move.
I saw the swallows hang and feed
Their young upon the wing
And never thought when stars came out
Of ever questioning.
The man is but a stage ahead
With travelling stars for sheep,
And high above . . . but when he turned
The swagman was asleep.
A.C.T.
II
The sunlight is a waterfall,
The tongues of leaves are long;
The songlarks hump their wings and call
And turn a flight to song;
So may not we who walk the road
Sing as we walk along?
The tongues of leaves are children
Who laugh upon the tree;
And larks are hearts at seventeen
Who sing at breaking free;
But what have they to sing about
Who have seen all they shall see?
Oh tongues of leaves must laugh and singf
Since they are long and green;
And hearts will turn a flight to song
Because they’re seventeen;
But they have substance when they sing
Who have seen all we have seen.
III
Beside the track the daisies grow
And I would have the time to bless
Both bird and man did I but know
Their knack of everlastingness.
Like cloud shadows across the plain
Drovers and sheep go by,
And I will give jmy heart to man
And leave the daisies to the sky.
There is a gleam, a light is shed
A moment and is blind:
The fireflies suck the desert bud
And drop a pollen in the mind.
Yet I will sit beneath the tree
And while the seasons move
I’ll ask no favors of the bee
But give a daisy to my love.
DAVID CAMPBELL.
Steinbeck's New Novel
In East of Eden (Heinemann), John
Steinbeck’s latest and perhaps best novel,
the writer uses the Cain and Abel story
as exemplified in two generations of a
family, for a central theme of a long
family and regional saga. The patterns
of fraternal jealousy and paternal mis-
understandings develop parallel with an-
other theme : the struggle between good
and evil.
No character epitomises “pure good,”
but a female character, Cathy Ames who
marries Adam Trask, is presented as a
“psychic monster” who “as though Nature
concealed a trap ...had from the first
a face of innocence.” She is likely to
be a controversial character credible only
to readers who are able to accept the
concept of absolute conscienceless evil.
Cathy is a multiple-murderess, black-
mailer, whore and brothel-keeper, and her
activities even at a distance provide a
pivot about which the leisurely plot re-
volves.
Steinbeck has written warmly from a
detailed and sympathetic observation of
people and places. Although the book is
rich in characters both important and
incidental, one never gets them confused :
they are all so fully seen and so well, if
briefly, described: “Will liked to live so
that no one could find fault with him, and
to do that he had to live as nearly like
other people as possible.” It has always
been in close observation that Steinbeck
excels: “Liza was rolling out piecrust
on the floury board. She was so expert
with the rolling-pin that the dough
seemed alive. It flattened out and then
pulled back a little from tension in itself.”
The strengths of East of Eden are
in its careful, almost loving detail and
the interest of situations which ensures
that, though slow-moving, it never sticks.
Its weaknesses are a tendency to magnify:
both events and characters, so that at times
the reader is confronted with melo-
dramatic near-improbabilities. However,
on the whole it is a particularly rich novel.
Aboriginal Legends
Legend and Dreaming , by Roland E.
Robinson (Edwards and Shaw, Ltd.,
Sydney) is a collection of aboriginal
legends gathered by the author in
Arnhem Land when, with a naturalist
friend, he was hunting zoological speci-
mens after the war.
The book is unusual in format, designed
to suit the drawings of rainbow-serpents
which Roland Robinson also picked-up
on the spot; and, though these are really
too crude to be worth reproduction on
so large a scale, it is also unusual in
the lucidity and humanity of its con-
tents ; in the readability which occurs
partly because Robinson was wise enough
to select or lucky enough to encounter
legends which have a human and dramatic
interest for (he European as well as a
tribal significance for the.blackfellow, and
partly because of the skilful fidelity with
(Red Page continued on page 35)


For craftsmanship that will endure . . .
leather that will withstand the toughest of wear . . . and
size that is scientifically graded to fit your foot.
V\ J\
IS
vM\\’
£
s/
2 \
m
m
U'Z's
f
y/w-
M
~r::; —,
:
Famous names in men’s footwear.
'
» 3«®?.
1
wii
m
< #'
-
w
'ON
I I
hi _ iiITT
. r \
Ki
6
&
4
No
-
f ]l\
■,.-y **
/
Above left.
“Dr. Purcell” no cap box derby boots have arch
supports and cushion heels. Tan calf and black box,
full and half sizes, are priced at 79/" a P a “"*
Above right.
Marshall, the custom-built shoe with a shape to fit
every foot. Black and Tan Zebu with a full golosh.
£3/13/6- Also Black Calf and Tan Willow
Oxford style 73/*- Glace Kid 86/ a *
At right.
Working boots with reversed hide uppers and corded
rubber soles and heels. 5 to 11. 47/6 a pair.
Also in Black Hide.
Above left.
These “Dr. Purcell" shoes are fitted with a special arch
support and cushion heels. In black calf and tan
willow, in medium or extra wide fittings. Calf, 73/--
Black glace kid, with or without the cap. Kid, 76/--
Above centre.
Black glace kid clerical shoes have elastic sides, leather
welted soles and heels and are available in full or
half sizes. These are priced at 83/- a pair.
Above right.
“J. H. Sharwood” shoes, with or without toecaps.
Full and half sizes, in narrow, medium, wide and
extra wide fittings. In black calf, and tan willow,
79/- a pair. In black glace kid, 83/- a pair.
1
m
m
m
m
h .«
ai
a
f
f
f
MEIN’S
5 SHOES —GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET.
M 2 401. BOX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY.


Disputing Thor Heyerdahl's Claims
T HE KON-TIKI
MARE’S-NEST
By H.A. LINDSAY
NO ma tter fantastic a belief
may be, if will not lack adherents
if it is propounded in a sufficiently
f " ar ° est ?? anner an d given plenty
o publicity. The arguments behind it
need not be sound in the scientific sense;
hey only need to be plausible.
By a strange quirk of human nature,
many actually prefer such ideas to sober
facts. Instance the notion that there was
once a great civilisation in the Pacific, on
a large island which has now sunk,
Allantis-fashion, beneath the sea.
One of the chief advocates of this idea
war. the late McMillan Brown, who set
r> Ut /i/ 1S t J ie ° rie s ir } a book entitled The
Riddle of the Pacific. This work is still
quoted as an authority by non-scientists
today , yet Brown built his whole theory
on the stone statues of Easter Island, plus
a few travellers tales. The whole thing
collapses when it is realised that nowhere
m the region of the Pacific mentioned by
Brown can soundings locate anything in
the shape of a submerged land-mass
e
“ n ° w Thor Heyerdahl, of Kon-
Tiki-raft fame, has come along with a
theory that the Polynesian race is of
American origin!
Heyerdahl’s ideas are completely at
variance with what numerous ethnolo-
gists and anthropologists, after more
than a century of research, have dis-
covered about the people who colonised
the Pacific Islands thousands of years
ago. Here is the picture these scientists
have built up:
Long ago, in the area south of the
Caspian Sea and around the Persian
Gulf, the rainfall was much heavier than
it is today. The people wl# then in-
habited this region evolved a simple
gardening culture for the growing of
food-crops; they also domesticated
animals such as cattle and sheep.
When people abandon a primitive
hunting-life in favor of agriculture and
animal husbandry they are able to live
in permanent settlements and have the
leisure to develop arts and crafts, includ-
ing the building of boats. In time the
world’s first real civilisation, the
Sumerian, sprang from this favorable
soil. Long prior to this, however, the
culture was spreading among neighboring
peoples, chiefly because the pioneer
agriculturists had also become the world’s
first seafaring people, who made coastal
voyages to barter for the produce of
other lands.
Among those who acquired the culture,
including the growing of food-crops and
the building of seaworthy boats, was a
stalwart, intelligent and enterprising
people living on the Coromandel coast
of India. In the scientific sense, they be-
longed to the Austric-language group,
but for our present purpose we can refer
to them as what they became later—the
ancestors of the Polynesians of today,
r> c .
.. ? ecause o£ need to flnd
Bymg-spaj* and perhaps also through
the population-pressure of the primitive
savages living on the borders of their
tribal lands, they sent out exploring and
colonising parties who travelled by sea.
(The British race did the identical thing
in more recent times, to found our own
Empire.)
These proto-Polynesians had a sound
commonsense reason for their choice of
islands as their new homes ; on them
they could live without fear of attack by
hostile neighbors. Some of them voyaged
down the eastern coast of Africa to Mada-
gascar, where their racial strain is still
marked among sections of the Malagasy
people.
Other colonising-parties sailed down
the western coast of Sumatra and, on the
chain of islands running from Nias to
Mentawei, established settlements whose
people are of the same stock today. The
Polynesians appear to have by-passed
many of the islands of Indonesia, but
here they picked up that valuable food-
tree, the breadfruit, which they took
later to every island on which it would
grow.
Voyaging on in search of other places
on which food-crops could be grown,
they passed through the Marshall and
Caroline Islands, where the people they
left behind merged with proto-Malays
and the very primitive Negritos to form
the present-day Micronesians.
Eventually the main body of the Poly-
nesians sailed into the Central Pacific, to
settle on Tahiti, which had until then
remained untrodden by human feet.
From this focal-point they set out on
those wonderful voyages of exploration
and colonisation which were to take them
to every corner of the Pacific.
The craft they used were large and
seaworthy. To refer to them as canoes is
liable to give a misleading impression, for
they were up to 70ft. in length and were
usually of the twin-hulled type, connected
by a platform on which the living-cabin
was built. They could carry 40 people,
as well as domestic livestock, supplies for
a long voyage, tools and other gear,
packages of seeds and rooted cuttings of
food-trees. Only the bottom portion of
the canoe hull was of dugout construc-
tion, being little more than a keel to
which a proper topside planking was
fitted.
The illustrations in Captain Cook’s
Voyages give a good idea of their size
STORY
“The Borrowing Path”
by M. G. Vincent
A comic story-to-end-all-stories about
families who are always borrowing
cups of sugar.
In Next Week’s Bulletin
and build; Cook’s descriptions of them
are full of praise for the excellent work-
manship that went into their construc-
tion. Long prior to the crossing of the
Atlantic by Columbus or the visits of
the Norsemen to North America, Poly-
nesians were making voyages twice as
long.
They did not sail haphazardly into the
ocean wastes; they deduced the direc-
tion in which anew land lay by noting
the direction taken by flocks of migrating
birds. The shining cuckoo led Kupe to
discover New Zealand at about a.d. 900,
and the migrating flight of the golden
plover from Alaska to Tahiti and back
again each year led to the discovery and
colonisation of the Hawaiian Islands.
Polynesian navigation was accurate,
and was based upon a sound knowledge
of astronomy, with some 60 of the
brightest stars known by name and used
as guides when laying a course. Their
calendar was based upon a New Year’s
Day fixed by the appearance each year
of the Pleiades in the eastern sky at
sunrise.
It is quite incorrect to think that their
large sailing-canoes could run only be-
fore the wind. Large outrigger-craft,
obviously copied from the Polynesian
design, are still used by the coastal
Melanesians of northern New Guinea,
and they show their best turn of speed
when reaching with the wind abeam.
Naturally, the voyagers made use of the
trade-winds, but it is ridiculous to claim
that their craft were at the mercy of wind
and current.
The westward migrations from Tahiti
have left colonies of virtually pure Poly-
nesians on islands west of Manus and
at one place at least on the coast of New
Britain, while their racial strain shows
up strongly among the Fijians and the
Melanesians of New Guinea. There is
also evidence of one of their outlying
colonies having been established on
Celebes.
Some of their adventurous voyagers
undoubtedly visited South America, to
bring back plants of a type of sweet-
potato native to that country, but this
is practically the only American influence
to be found in the Pacific, the possible
exception being the tobacco cultivated by
the Marquesans.
Heyerdahl claims that the Polynesian
race is of mixed Southern and Northern
American origin; but the fact is that all
branches of this people, whose home-
lands lie scattered over the vast expanses
of the Pacific, speak a dialect of the same
mother-tongue, which belongs to the
Austric group of languages and bears no
resemblance to any American Indian
language.
Often overlooked, but very significant,
is the evidence of the Polynesian live-
stock. Nearly everywhere they went—
New Zealand is the one big exception—
they took with them a razor-backed hog
whose original home is south-east Asia.
They also had a fowl, resembling a cross
between a bantam and a feather-duster
in appearance, whose ancestor was the
jungle-fowl of India. Their dog, which
was taken to New Zealand* and was
known to the Maori as Kure, was a
domesticated strain of the wild-dog of
India.
Further, the Polynesians clothed them-
selves in tapa, a cloth made by beating
the inner layers of the bark of certain
trees. No American Indians used this
material, which is definitely of Asiatic
origin and is still made by the Jungli
forest people of Assam.
The “mysterious” stone statues of
Easter Island are not unique in the
Pacific, nor do they provide a link with
any South American cultures. Many
other colonies of Polynesians made them;
they are found in the Marquesas, and
even lonely Pitcairn, uninhabited when
the Bounty mutineers settled there, had
relics of a typical Polynesian settlement,
including a paved open-air Marae temple
and stone statues. The main evidence
of a former Polynesian colony on
Celebes takes the form of large stone
statues with many features in common
with those on Easter Island. Would any-
one claim that an American influence
could retfch as far as Indonesia?
One could go on piling up evidence of
this kind almost indefinitely—all sound,
all based upon years of patient research
and accepted by the leading people in
the closely-connected fields of ethnology
and anthropology. Thor Heyerdahl
builds his theory on the quicksands of a
drift-voyage on a raft, plus some chance
resemblances between the two peoples,
their cultures and their implements. In
reality, some of his evidence works in
reverse, for it indicates that Polynesian
exploring-parties left their mark along
the coasts of America !
As for his claims to have “proved” his
theory; well, science demands some-
thing more than stating everything in
favor of an idea and leaving out all
those awkward facts which show it to
be erroneous.
Heyerdahl’s latest book on the subject,
American Indians in the Pacific, would
be far better titled Mare’s-nest in the
Pacific. On like “evidence” anyone could
propound a theory that the Australian
aborigines are of Eskimo origin, sceptics
to be silenced by such “proof” as the
undoubted fact that both peoples used the
spear-thrower.
The propounder might even win fame
and fortune.
The Protean Preposition
\ . ) HEN Robinson Crusoe found
\ X / that it would take 10 or 12
V V y ears to make a canal deep
enough to float his huge
home-made boat to the sea he felt
unable to face the task, and said “I
was at length obliged to give it over.”
Until recently, if we failed to achieve
something we said we “gave it up.”
Nowadays we are saying “The job’s
*9 bard £o y, I,m ' es S om S to
give n away.
So do we love to change our
prepositions.
And not only to change them, but
to use them in such a way with our
verbs that they make up endless vivid
and expressive colloquialisms. We
are coining them every day.
Think of the difference between
“getting up” and "getting by” be-
tween “getting on" and “getting
out »» B ® b &
They took me out to take me in ;
what did they take me for?” sums
up our love for the preposition and
its variety.
At the end of the year an Oxford
college “goes down,” but a modern
school “breaks up.” Why? Be-
cause, it seems, something in us
demands novelty and variety in
language as in other things.
The framers of the Book of Com-
mon Prayer wrote of holy matri-
mony that it was “instituted of God
in the time of man’s innocency.”
The first of” has changed to “by.”
Not so long ago we looked about
the room for a lost book or hat;
nowadays we look around it.
Sometimes we drop the preposition
altogether. Defoe says of Robinson
Crusoe that he “began to consider
of means to put this measure into
execution.” Boswell in the same
century wrote to Lady Northumber-
land; “What does your Ladyship
think of a man who, notwithstand-
ing of such a disappointment, can
cry ‘Vive la bagatelle’ ?” The “of”
in both expressions has disappeared,
We said Untu recently (hat , he dog
went for him. The writer heard only
l as t week a small boy expressing his
fear of his friend’s pet with “Tim’s
gonna go me.” “Plenty of money”
becomes “plenty money,” “staying at
home staying home,” and so on.
These latter changes may be due
to the wish for But of late
we seem to have developed the habit
° £ addin * not k on t-\ ut tw ? pre ? OSi ‘
“ on . s to ,? v, = rb wh “* we ..? a ™ lo “ g
used without support “Mind the
car j crle d the boy cyclist of 20 years
ago to his comrade on the road.
“Mind out for the car!” he says
nowadays. “I wouldn’t miss out on
that trip,” is another new form, where
until recently ‘miss” was adequate.
In this year of grace, 1953, we do
not meet a friend as we did only a
little time ago. We meet up with
him.
And why do we say that the crooks
beat-up the policeman when we mean
that the y beat him down? Why is an
a eroplane shot-up when it is
obviously shot down?
Well, it is as reasonable, one sup-
poses, as the old lady who died of a
Tuesday and the farmer s wife who
lamented her misfortunes with “The
storm blew down the shed on me,
the cow died on me, the kids were
sick on me.”
N.B.
O’Ryan of “The Cross”
I ENTERED the neat little Kings’
Cross shop, which was obviously furn-
ished in a Continental style. “Here’s
an Irishman,” I thought, “with ob-
viously a European soul. Probably he
lived on the Continent for a while.”
Behind the counter stood a foreign-
looking gent.; there was no mistaking
him.
“Vhat can I do you for?” the shop-
keeper said in an intimate tone, with
eagerness you could not possibly find in
his Australian counterpart.
“I would like to speak to Mr. O’Ryan,”
I said.
“Yees?”
“Yes.”
“Pleaze.”
Thinking he didn’t understand, I re-
peated my request.
“Pleaze,” the little man looked at me
expectantly.
“I told you,” I said it again. “I would
like to have a talk with Mr. O’Ryan.”
“Ach, I do understand. You look
for Mr. O’Ryan?”
“That is right.”
“It is I, Mr. O’Ryan in person.”
“But . . . well, how could you be Mr.
O’Ryan?”
“I change name. It is so much better.
Good for business, excellent for assimila-
tion.”
But is it? \
In the Army I met dinkum Aussies
with names like Papados, Szabo and
Kelemen, third-generation Australians
some of them, who spoke, acted and
looked like Australians (indeed they were)
except for their names. Their forefathers
came to Australia decades ago, and kept
the old family name. And these descend-
ants, although they had no affiliation
with the Old World, would not have
changed their “good name” at any price.
They suffered no disadvantages, and,
moreover, it gave the assurance that the
assimilation of foreigners is not neces-
sarily a myth.
STEPHEN KELEN.


The Bulletin
. Wednesday, February 11, 1953
Vol. 74—No. 3809
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
"LABOR'S" OBSTRUCTION POLICY
In State elections throughout Australia “Labor” cam-
paigning has plumbed the depths of shabbiness along
lines only possible because this country is a Federa-
tion. The whole essence of “Labor” policy in the State
campaigns is based upon its supposed frustration
because the Commonwealth—by which it means the
Loan Council —will not finance the States to the limit of
their “needs.” And their needs are limited only by
the size of their Ministries’ wishbones. It has become
standard technique for Premiers like Cahill and Gair
to begin large works (which they know they have not
the slightest chance of finishing because of shortage
of manpower, materials and money) with a view to
local vote-buying and then producing a scene in
which they weep with rage at the stinginess of the
“Menzies Government” in failing to make the job
possible.
Mr. Cahill is going through the country in N. S.
Wales boasting that “my Government has done more
solid constructive work in 12 years than any previous
Government has done in 24 years,” while, in fact, if a
major work such as the Eastern Suburbs railway and
the Circular Quay station were completed it would be
the marvel of the age—and, incidentally, on the cost-
basis of the last moiety, completely bankrupt from the
start unless fares were paid in gold or uranium.
Mr. Cahill’s existing railways and antediluvian
tramways are, of course, in that embarrassed condition
and slipping deeper into the red. While
his transport continues to sink to chaos Mr.
Cahill continues to promise loudly that he and his
“new” Government, if it is chosen to rule, will finish
all its public works and “encourage the expansion of
country industries and the establishment of new ones”
by special fare concessions. Always, of course, if the
Commonwealth will provide finance.
Queensland’s permanent soviet which calls itself
a “responsible Government” is in the same class. Since
it has adjusted the electoral system to assure that it
has become almost unbeatable, and since the war-time
arrangements gave it power to evade financial respon-
sibility for raising money, its proceedings have been
a riot. Last year, according to its Auditor-General’s
report, it collected £35,656,000 in consolidated revenue
in various ways, and from the Commonwealth (under
the Financial Agreement and' State Grants Acts)
another £20,000,000, all authorised by Parliamentary
authority. It overspent by £5,000,000 from revenue “in
anticipation of Parliamentary appropriation,” and
exceeded its statutory loan expenditure by £6,426,000,
being only saved from disaster by a financial buoyancy
which belied its and Mr. Cahill’s propaganda that the
Menzies Government was bringing about wholesale
depression.
Against £4,531,663 of Loan Fund spent in 1946-47
and £7,118,538 in the last year in which “Labor” was
in office in Canberra, it spent £23,662,458 in 1951-52,
and this not on putting its existing enterprises, such
as the ancient and battered railways, on a proper
and payable footing, but on expansions of “works”
intended to buy the support of key voting localities.
Between last year and 1950-51 and 1951-52 there was
actually a decline in the expenditure on railway rolling-
stock and work on open railway-lines while the Gov-
ernment paid for new tracks.
“Labor” State finances are in such a chaotic
condition that nobody knows how they stand, the
device of the Trust Fund having been invoked, apart
from other methods of confusion, to hide the real
position. Queensland’s expenditure from these teem-
ing funds last year aggregated no less than £35,000,000,
or “£9,971,714 in excess of disbursements in the
previous year.” The annual Trust Fund expenditure
was only £21,710,799 in the last year Federal “Labor”
was in office. Many of these funds are subject to
heavy Commonwealth subsidies, though this fact is
never stressed.
One of the most alarming developments in national
policies in the past few years is the palpable difference
of attitude between “Labor” when it is in Federal
office and when it is out of it. It appears to have
no sense of responsibility to the electors and taxpayers.
With “Labor” in Opposition at Canberra and
in office in the large key States the A.L.P. becomes
a wrecking gang whose objective is to make it
impossible for anybody but “Labor” to govern.
Both State and Federal “Labor” parties are com-
mitted by their platform to the destruction of the
States and their replacement by socialised provinces
financed by the Commonwealth to carry out delegated
Federal powers. They are both committed to socialisa-
tion of private banking and large-scale industry and the
land. They have dug their
toes in, and it is now an
axiom that there can be no
equitable government of
Australia as a whole and no
broad national financial
policy while “Labor” rules
in some States and Liberal-
C.P. in the Commonwealth,
The example of Liberal-
governed South Australia,
which has shown what can
be done over a long period,
and the manner in which
the Menzies Government is
confounding the Jeremiahs,
should be an incentive to
the non-party swinging vote
which controls elections to
vote for Liberal- and
Country-party candidates at
the State polls.
History as Taught
Under the guidance of Mr.
R. J. Heffron, Deputy-
Premier and Minister for
Education in New South
Wales, history and geo-
graphy have disappeared
from the curriculum of the
State schools, the field
formerly covered by them,
with the addition of civics,
is now referred to as “social
studies” —“the three subjects
forming a harmonious
whole.”
One of the two books
set for sixth-grade work
this year is Social Studies.
by G. T. Spaull, M.A. In
a chapter entitled “John
Curtin, Orator and Patriot,”
after dealing briefly with
Curtin’s early career as a
trade-union official and
editor of the West Aus-
tralian “Worker,” Mr. Spaull
proceeds:—
When the question of
conscription was being
fought out in 1918 he
opposed it strenuously. To
him there was no need for
conscription in Australia.
As he pointed out, there
were, at the time, 370,000
volunteers fighting overseas.
These men had borne the
brunt of the fierce attacks
on many fronts, and had
proved their fierce fighting
qualities everywhere. Cur-
tin was proud of our
soldiers, and contended that
volunteers made better
fighters than conscripts.
It is historically correct
that John Curtin was an
active anti-conscriptionist in
the referendum campaigns
of 1916 and 1917 (there was none in 1918) ;he even
opposed compulsory training for home-service in the
days before the 1914-18 war. But in 1918 he
was a delegate to the Perth anti-recruiting confer-
ence which, at a critical period of the war, passed
resolutions condemning its continuance and virtually
urging Australia to sue for peace.
The opportunity to present the other side has not
been accepted. The chapter devoted to William Morris
Hughes (eulogistic in the main) leaves his life a
complete blank from 1916, when he visited England,
until 1920. Omit the conscription campaigns from
the Curtin story and you still have a reasonably
complete Life of Curtin; leave them out of Billy’s
life and you ruin the blithering book.
But the greater Curtin inaccuracies occur later
in the chapter. Relating how the member for Fre-
mantle lost his seat in 1931, Mr. Spaull continues:
So he settled down to earn a living as a journalist
and studying the defence of Australia, for he felt
certain, from the actions of Hitler and the Japanese,
that another world conflict was not far distant.
Curtin’s study of the defence of Australia was a
trifle belated; the Scullin Government, of which he
had been a member, had not long previously cut the
permanent defence forces to the bone and had
abolished compulsory military training. Hitler, inci-
dentally, did not come to power until 1933.
Curtin was back in Canberra by 1934, and in the
following year he succeeded James Scullin as Leader
of the Opposition. In that capacity, says Mr. Spaull,
Again and again, in his eloquent style, he warned
the people of the dangers of attack, perhaps invasion,
and pointed out that they must be ready with trained
men, warships and war-planes to meet the coming
onset.
Curtin’s policy-speech in 1937 did refer
to the Navy: “It is foolish to say that Aus-
tralia can sustain a seagoing Navy adequate to Aus-
tralia’s needs.” His recipe for defence, therefore, was
not to worry about a Navy at all, but to build 300
aeroplanes, which number he claimed was the
equivalent of “the existing seaborne planes of any
nation which could be regarded as a potential danger
to the Commonwealth.” In actual truth the Curtin
air-defence scheme was never any more than a stunt
for defence on the cheap, produced in answer to the
charge that “Labor” had no defence policy.
From Mr. Spauli’s objective study of John Curtin
the 11-year-old seeker for knowledge turns to the
chapter “Joseph Benedict Chifley. From Engine-driver
to Prime Minister,” in which he is told:
Chifley had hardly any dislikes. He was too
♦
C«Su
0
Iffp*
■01
j ,ss^\ a wl ®
fg
fgSDG
7 cf :
w
' J
V
"tABORl
THE BAD EGG
kindly for that. “Hating others isn’t a strength,” he
was wont to say. “It’s a weakness.”
In the House of Representatives on April 7, 1948,
in the course of a speech in which he said that behind
the Liberals were “the low-wage advocates, the
sweaters, the rack-renters and the ‘money-bags’ ” Mr.
Chifley actually made this statement:
I should not be a member of this Parliament
today if some tolerance had been extended to the
men who took part in the strike of 1917. All that
that harsh and oppressive treatment did, as far as I
was concerned, was to transform me,*with the assist-
ance of my colleagues, from an ordinary engine-driver
to the Prime Minister of this country. If an example
of what harshness can do is required, my presence
in this Parliament should be sufficient.
At this, Anthony, M.H.R., asked by interjection,
“Then the honorable member is only here for
vengeance?” He received no answer.
This feeling of personal injustice never left
Chifley ; it was with him to the end. On June 10, 1951,
in an address to the annual conference of the N. S.
Wales branch of the A.L.P., he said:
After the 1917 strike the Conservative Govern-
ment of the day deregistered the unions and victimised
them and their officers. A trail of hate and bitter-
ness was left behind, and that trail has never been
eliminated.
Four days later he was dead.
But to return to the Spaull life of Chifley and the
final example of history as now taught in New South
Wales; it deals with the second hate of the man who
believed hating to be a weakness:
He hadn’t forgotten the heartless manner in which
the Private Banks had, during the lean years of the
depression, seized the properties of men who couldn t
pay the money they had borrowed. To prevent a
repetition of this, he brought in a bill to give the
Government control of the Private Banks. But
although the bill was passed by both Houses, the
High Court, and then the Privy Council, decided that
' the Commonwealth Government had no power to
interfere, and the bill never became law.
The first two sentences are presented not merely
as the Chifley point of view, but as accurate historical
fact. That the people subsequently twice endorsed the
action of the court and council and rejected Chifley is
not mentioned in the story —doubtless because it was
out of harmony.
Among suggestions for further study given at the
end of one chapter of this fountain of pure knowledge
is this one: “The work of Dr. Evatt, during and since
the war, would also make an interesting project.” It
certainly would, but even more interesting would be a.
project on the work of Mr. Heffron before he became
Minister for Education.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Home on the What?
A contemporary folksong, popular not
so long ago on “Labor’s” official radio-
station, contained a line which pictured
a swan (or was it an antelope?) “gliding
along like a maid in a heavenly dream.”
Until a fortnight ago that' was a fairly
accurate description of New South Wales
“Labor’s” attitude towards the State
election on February 14.
If Cahill and Cos. didn’t regard them-
selves as being home on the range, they
at least thought they were home on the
pig’s back. Whereas a year ago they
looked to election-day with apprehension,
fearing that their long reign in Macquarie-
street was nearing its end, they now acted
as if they really thought they were in for
ever. The reason, of course, was not
that they felt their record had endeared
them to the electors, but that they and
their Federal colleagues had, on the
evidence of by-elections. State and
Federal, succeeded in laying the blame
for their own maladministration on the
shoulders of the Menzies Government,
from which they believed sufficient would
spill over on to the State Liberals to
prevent their climbing to office.
So confident was Cahill that he
blatantly asked the people to judge him
on his record. Now he appears to be
afraid they will. When Opposition-leader
Treatt, in his policy-speech, not only
attacked “Labor’s” record most effec-
tively, but also came out with a batch of
practical promises designed to ease tax-
burdens and encourage development,
Cahill seemed suddenly to take fright.
No one but “Labor,” it appears, should
be allowed to make promises, because
“Labor” always keeps its promises (it has
kept some of them so long that they are
going bad). His Ministers have been
talking frantically in an effort to prove
that the Treatt promises can’t be kept;
but their alarm is a clear indication that
they fear they can—and that Treatt may
be given a chance to try.
In the months since Flinders and
Werriwa, instead of the Evatt prophecies
of galloping inflation and leaping unem-
ployment coming true, it has been the
Menzies forecast of increasing stability
that looks like proving correct. A dawn-
ing realisation of this has been respon-
sible for the sudden awakening of Cahill
and Cos. from their heavenly dream. In-
stead of being home on the pig’s back
they may be lucky to pass the winning-
post hanging on to its tail.
There is no denying that Liberal stocks
have been low, but there are indications
that they are on the rise. Time is prob-
ably still on Cahill’s side. If Treatt loses
on Saturday it will be the calendar that
beats him, not Cahill’s sorry record.'
Also Up for Judgment
Dr. Evatt said, supporting an N. S. Wales
State “Labor” candidate last week, that
the Federal Government is up for judg-
ment at the various State elections. He
said that the Liberal and Country parties
which were asking for the right to govern
N. S. Wales were but a branch of the
same disastrous Menzies-Fadden coalition
in control at Canberra.
He forgot to say that the Federal
“Labor” party is also up for judgment;
that, indeed, it is the third time it has been
up for judgment within the past three
years in N. S. Wales, and that on the
previous two occasions the electorate re-
fused indignantly to have anything to do
with it and expressed its opinion in terms
of majorities which left no doubt.
He also failed to say that the electorate
thought so little of his own personal part
in what he calls the “wise and vigorous”
policy of “Labor” that he was able to
cling to his membership of Parliament
only by a few hundred votes, his opponent
each time being a woman with little ex-
perience of politics.
He forgets, also, when he talks of
“panic legislation,” that he was thrown
out in 1949 as the Attorney-General, legal
adviser and deputy Prime Minister of a
“Labor” Government which had, quite
illegally and in a sudden socialising hys-
teria, attempted to collar the trading banks
and to nationalise Australian finance and
commerce without any attempt to get a
mandate, and that the next time he chal-
lenged the Government to have an elec-
tion on the issues of Senate-control, Com-
munism and industrial discipline, the
vote against him was equally decisive.
Any elector with a tendency to take
Dr. Evatt seriously might sit down calmly
before he votes and consider his record
as a prophet since the beginning of last
year. The chaos and depression which
he has prophesied eagerly since 1949 have
not arrived. The ruin which import re-
strictions were to bring about has not
materialised. The restrictions have fully
justified themselves, and, with buoyant
trade—in defiance of Dr. Evatt’s positive
anticipation—the trade-balance deficit of
£4B million registered in January, 1952,
has been turned into a trade-balance
credit of £22 million in January, 1953,
making a favorable trade balance for the
first seven months of 1952-53 of £l7B
million,
Mao Sheds His Mask
The most important event in international
politics for years is the throwing-off of
the mask by the Chinese about the Korean
war.
From the beginning China has always
claimed not to be officially concerned in
the war, just as Moscow has claimed the
same thing. The story always has been
that the million Chinese in Korea are
volunteers, each there individually of his
own accord as a result of his personal
righteous indignation at the invasion of
peaceful South Korea by the barbarian
American aggressors.
Last week Chou En-lai, the Chinese
Premier, suddenly threw off all pretence
to be a neutral. He suggested a cease-
fire, with a political conference to settle
the question of the return of prisoners,
which the Communists have all along
made the stumbling-block to the settle-
ment of the Korean question. He added
that, if the United States wished to extend
the Korean war, China was “prepared to
fight on.”
This was followed by an even more
important statement by Mao Tsz-tung,
who, imitating Stalin, speaks only on
momentous occasions, this time at the
meeting of the People’s Consultative Con-
ference.
Repeating the parrot-cry “We want
peace” and the lie. that “American im-
perialism is insisting on keeping back
prisoners-of-war” and “making wild
attempts to extend the war in Korea,” he
continued:
However, so long as American imperialism
does not give up its unreasonable demands
and its scheme to extend aggression, the
sole determination of the Chinese people
must be to go on fighting alongside the
Korean people. However many years
American imperialism prefers to fight we
are ready to fight—up to the moment when
American imperialism prefers to pack it
up, right up to the moment of complete
victory for the Chinese and Korean people.
The statement was accompanied by a
lecture on the need to adopt Russian
principles in the remaking of China, so
servile that any doubt in the minds of
students as to China’s place as a Russian
satellite or North Korea’s place as a
satellite of both China and Russia
must be dispelled. Following instantly on
Mao’s speech came an order from Kim
11-sung to prepare for a “do-or-die battle”
on the Korean front. “All conditions for
our final victory are assured,” he declared.
Blair Athol
“Kerogen”: That the development of
Blair Athol on the scale it obviously
wants would be the making of Central
and North Queensland (B. 4/2/’53) no-
body familiar with the circumstances
doubts, but unfortunately both the
political and economic dice are loaded
against it.
The coal itself is there in extremely
large, but not unlimited, quantities, and
a big enough extraction-scheme could
land it at site cheaply enough as present-
day costs go in Australia, especially those
in the opencut section of the industry.
Edward B. Nevin may be right in
anticipating markets for the coal in New
Caledonia and Pakistan, but the countries
of the North Pacific region may have
other ideas. It is also uncertain how
much of it would find a ready market
(without intense sales propaganda or sub-
sidy) in States outside Queensland, especi-
ally as the coal is just f.a.q. steam coal
and has no gasmaking, coking or other
essential requirements beyond offering
itself as a suitable raw material for oil-
and chemicals-production.
American and European groups have
“looked at” Blair Athol many times in
the recent past, but “uncertainties” have
always frightened off the financial in-
terests from taking the plunge when all
the facts were known. The Queensland
Government boggled at the reciprocal
recommendation of the Powell Duffryn
experts submitted last year for tech-
nical reasons as well as financial.
Other American interests have suggested
opening up the deposit on such a scale
as to warrant a “mine-to-coast” belt-
conveyor system for its transport instead
of rail-haulage! They made no worth-
while suggestions as to where and how
such an enormous tonnage would be dis-
posed of. (
Present output of the field (both com- \
panics) runs at close to 350,000 tons a
year, and would need stepping up tenfold i
to warrant the investment of millions of
dollars (or £As) in building anew port,
anew “modern” railway and equipment :
for the project on the scale demanded.
If American, or even local and Aus- (
tralian, interests are as eager to develop
the fine potential of eastern Australia as
the circumstances warrant the discovering
of a worth-while oil and natural-gas
field would have more significance than
any Blair Athol project yet envisaged.
Telling the Country Voter
Frank Finnan, Mr. Cahill’s Minister for
Labor and Industry until next Saturday,
has had a very worrying time trying to
win the Albury seat in the N.S.W. elec-
tion.
Mr. Finnan burst on Albury full of
praise and promises. He found it an ex-
cellent city, promised to go and live there
if elected, and announced that it need
no longer feel neglected once it elected
him to the Sydney Parliament.
Whereupon the local daily paper,
“Border Morning Mail,” which hasn’t
much time for Sydney politics anyhow,
dryly remarked that almost anyone would
be glad to live in Albury on a politician’s
pay and with free travel facilities, ex-
pressed mild astonishment at this some-
what belated discovery of its city, and
traced Mr. Finnan’s political adventures.
This threw Mr. Finnan into a state
of wounded pride. He spoke darkly of a
“smear campaign,” said he didn’t have
to win Albury to get a living since he
has qualified for a Parliamentary pension,
added that he was never beaten for the
Hawkesbury seat but gave it up when its
boundaries were altered, and vehemently
declared that in Supreme Court proceed-
ings over his election to Darlinghurst he
was cleared of any nasty implications.
Then arrived Mr. Eddie Graham,
“Labor” member for the neighboring
Wagga seat, and Mr. Cahill’s Minister
for Agriculture. Mr. Graham told
Albury that if it had suffered any neglect
in the past it was because it hadn’t elected
a “Labor” member.
Whereupon the “B.M. Mail” coldly
replied:
....Mr. Finnan proceeded to point out
what he could do to help this “No Man’s
Land” (Albury citizens won’t forget that one
in a hurry) if only he should become its
member. He would live in Albury and estab-
lish a permanent city office here; a wide range
of light industries would be established in the
city; he would move for a Research and Ser-
vice Centre to meet the existing potential needs
of primary producers: and, generally, deter-
mined efforts would be made, by himself and
by the Government, both to remove existing
disabilities and to develop fully all parts of
the electorate
Perhaps the most galling feature of the busi-
ness is the underlying truth of this combina-
tion of promise and threat. When it is remem-
bered that Wagga has had a Labor member,
is it necessary, especially in the light of Mr.
Finnan’s glaring revelations, to look farther
for explanations of the removal of the head-
office of the Police Department from Albury
to that city; df the establishmesnt of the
Teachers’ College there instead of in the real
educational centre of the Riverina; of the
transfer of the examination of wool-classing
students from this great wool centre; and of
the failure to give to Albury hospital, aero-
drome and abattoir facilities now enjoyed by
Wagga?....
And that, if country people care to
look around them, pretty well sums up
the “Labor” record in the country. For
12 years under McKell, McGirr and Cahill
successively, the only breaks in the general
neglect of the country have been in those
electorates which either had a “Labor”
member or looked likely to elect one.
To make it even more pointed, “Labor”
abolished four rural seats. It has made
vote-buying and political sectionalism a
fine racket.
Will W.A. Swing?
In the Westralian elections, as in the
New South Wales poll, the most import-
ant factor is the extent to which voters
allow Federal issues, real or imaginary,
to influence their judgment on State
politics. If the two Governments facing
the electors next Saturday were to be
judged purely on their performances it
is just as certain that the McLarty team
would be re-elected as that the Cahills
would be thrown out neck and crop.
Six years ago “Labor” was in power
at Canberra and in five out of six of the
State Parliaments—South Australia alone
being under Liberal rule. It was
Westralia that first broke free from the
Socialist grip. “Labor” held office in
Perth from 1924 until 1947, with the ex-
ception of one Parliament (1930-33), and
when it faced the electors in 1947 it
had 15 unopposed members and needed
to win only 11 other seats to retain office.
Eight was the best it could manage, in-
cluding one decided by the casting-vote
of the retuming-officer.
The McLarty-Watts coalition repeated
its success at the 1950 election, picking
up another seat from “Labor,” the
Liberal section of the Government at the
same time improving its representation
at the expense of the Country-party
element: The present state of parties is:
L.C.P., 17; C.P., 9; Independent, 2;
“Labor ,” 22.
“Labor” therefore needs to gain at
least four seats on Saturday to get back
on the Treasury benches, and it is using
the same Evattian arguments that have
been winning by-elections for it in hie
eastern States. Its optimism that the
same success will follow in the West is
tempered a little by the knowledge that
unemployment in Perth is very light and
that McLarty’s record of achievement is
quite considerable. Westralia has pros-
pered under McLarty—the oil-refining
developments at Kwinana are most im-
pressive—and Hawke hasn’t produced
any really cogent arguments in favor of
a change.
Paralysing Transport
Victoria no sooner found itself under
“Labor” rule than if got a sample of the
transport tyranny which is afflicting N. S.
Wales. Transport regulations were
“tightened up” and four road-transport
concerns were refused permits to run
their trucks.
One, whose business is in Warrack-
nabeal, was refused a permit to carry
steel and timber to his home town; a
Brunswick (Melbourne) man was stopped
from carting water-piping and steel to
Ballarat and Bendigo ; a Geelong man
was stopped from carting wool from
Geelong to Melbourne ; and a Melbourne
man was stopped from carrying cardboard
cartons to Mt. Gambier (S. Aust).
About the same time Mr. Tom
Dougherty, of the A.W.U., was telling his
union conference to fight for the conver-
sion of all Australian railways to a
uniform gauge, the main point of his
argument being that if ever Australia
has to fight a war close to its borders its
different railway-gauges could mean the
difference between victory and defeat.
Also about the same time Senator
McLeay, Federal Minister for Shipping,
commented in Brisbane on high shipping
freights caused by Red-union slow-downs
and other things, a factor which has
clearly held back the development of the
Australian mercantile marine and would
catch us horribly short in war.
Which suggests that the Federal Gov-
ernment should interest itself in the efforts
of the State Governments to kill the road-
transport industry. Apart from the
thoroughly bad business of making laws
to force people to use their railways the
States are crippling a huge mobile trans-
port force which would be invaluable
in defence, but only if it is working and
ready when the need arises. It would
be too late after war began to begin
recovering the lost drivers and their
trucks, and to build up a new motor-
transport auxiliary.
If the Federal Government is
sincere in its desire to reduce costs and
increase production it should do all it
can to save the road-transport industry.
Our greatest national weakness, both for
peace-time living and in defence prepared-
ness, is transport. By their blind deter-
mination to kill all forms of land trans-
port other than rail, the States, unless
checked, will paralyse production and
set us back half a century.
Paging Mr. Doyle!
Latest political sensation: —
The past week has been an unnerving
for some combatants in the K. S. Wales otafe
election campaign through “unforeseen cncu
stances "
On January 31 it was discovered that
numbers of, crudely-forged share-certificates i
Placer Development, Etch, a large internation
company, had been circulated in Sydney, so
of them used as security against substant
loans. Two days later a taxi-driver w
arrested and charged with forgery. .He has y
to be tried. The same day a lux . u ™ u l n ?
car, a “late-model Buick,” No. AHB-405, w
found abandoned near the Mitchell Libra y,
next-door to Parliament House. . . , v
It belonged to a man named Reginald Aub y
Doyle, who had , disappeared the
Saturday after (according to the police) tell g
his wife that he would never see her agai ■
The police issued a warrant for Doyle s arr>
a bankruptcy petition was in due course
on him by having it affixed to the door of hu
“palatial home” by the harborside. His w .
who had left the palace, was mtemewed m 2
small bookshop, in East Sydney electorate,
which she had bought with her own mom y.
Then Dr. Roland Wilson secretary t, the
Commonwealth Treasury* asked the P° Jl “ .
issue a warning that Doyle might try 1
; tiate a cheque for £27,UUU aim
cheques bearing a seeming facsimi
(i Continued on page 7)


Commonwealth Treasury signature - stamp.
Interest to the affair for the daily Press was
added by the announcement that Doyle, well
known in “racing society” and owner of a
string of horses, had been summoned to appeal
before the AJ.C. Committee to answer ques-
tions about some betting incidents.
At this stage it seemed that nothing much
could add to the “glamor” as a news-story of
what was happening. Then Mr. W. E. Dickson,
M.L.C., who had just been promoted from the
Cahill Ministry to the presidency of the N. S.
Wales Legislative Council, issued a vehement
denial of “rumors” that Doyle had been able
to use members’ rooms and telephones at N.S.W.
Parliament House. Mr. Lamb, the Speaker,
followed with an even more vehement one,
denying also that Doyle had had the use of
parking facilities for his car at Parliament
House, but announcing that he would hold an
inquiry when he returned from an electioneering
tour —Speakers in “Labor”-controiled Parlia-
ments in N. S. Wales always showing their
impartiality by taking a. vigorous part in elec-
tion campaigns.
Dr. Parr, M.L.A. for Burwood, next came
out with a declaration that he had seen, last
Friday, in the police-box from which parking
is controlled at Parliament House, attached to
the list of cars authorised to be parked, a
small piece of paper on which the numbei
AHB-405 was written,” and underneath, m
ordinary writing, what purported to be an
authorisation by the Speaker, Mr. Lamb, and
immediately underneath this particular writing
was the number AHB-405 “and another number,
AEZ-728, and immediately under it the words
‘Mrs. Doyle.’ ” He said that an attendant had
told him that the car had been at Parliament
House on Monday morning and that a woman
had driven it out, and that it had been found
outside the parking area near the Mitchell
To complicate matters, after Mr. J. Arthur,
a member of the Cahill Ministry, had
denied vigorously any knowledge of Doyle,
and Mr. Cahill had expressed indigna-
tion that they should be drawn into
the matter, Senator O’Sullivan, Munster
for Customs, announced that it was being
alleged that the names of one or two ot Mr.
Cahill’s colleagues had been associated with
Doyle’s and that “if Mr. Cahill thinks that
these accusations are unjust or unsubstantiated,
and If he thinks that the files under my control
will assist him to establish that injustices are
being done, 1 will be glad to make the hies
available to him.”
Mr. Cahill, declaring that he was proud that
no breath of scandal had ever touched any
member of his Government, suggested the hies
might be made available to the police.
W. C. Wentworth, M.P., now weighed in
with the statement that Mr. O’Sullivan had
shown him the files after a question had been
asked in the House in 1950, and that they con-
tained the record of a conspiracy to defraud
and to attempt to get licences to import
American cars under the pretext that they were
gifts not involving dollars. Mr. Wentworth,
according to the Sydney “Herald report,
alleged that the files showed that Doyle was
a close friend of Mr. Arthur, N.S.W. Minister
for Mines, and that Mr. Arthur had admitted
this to officers from the Customs Department,
also that he had said to them that he saw
Doyle regularly two or three times a week.
Mr. Wentworth said that the files showed that
a person closely involved in the fraud used a
telephone in Arthur’s room m Parliament House
as a base for his operations. Mr. Arthur,
according to the files, denied any personal
knowledge of the use of his room for this
twP is where the matter stood when this
issue went to press. Mr, Lamb had gone away
electioneering, after having denied the report
previously published that he bad said he would
hnld an inauiry on his return. And on Mon-
day February 9, the “Herald” reported that
“The Speaker, Mr. Lamb, and Mr. Arthur
could not be reached last mght for comment
As Mr. Treatt - remarked, these reports
demand immediate action. The matter is a
most serious one, in which the integrity of
S3ls involved,” and it should be,
investigated publicly before the election In
the meantime it needs to be remembered that
Doyle has not been arrested or tried.
POLITICAL POINTS
Why these perennial complaints about
lack of parking-space in Sydney? Appar-
ently there’s plenty to spare at Parlia-
ment House.
• •
State elections are coming in pairs this
year, ill-assorted ones at that. The
Cahill “Labor” Government (N.S.W.) and
the McLarty Lib.-C.P. alliance (W.A.)
face the electors next Saturday, and on
March 7 the “Labor” Gairs (Q.) and
Liberal Playfords (S.A.) come up for
judgment.
• •
“Unopposed” will form pretty large
parties in the new Parliaments to be
elected in New South Wales and Westralia
on Saturday. Nine “Labor” members,
including the Premier, Deputy-Premier
and Chief Secretary ; three
Liberals and one Country -
party man are unopposed
in N. S. Wales. In the
West there are almost
enough walkovers to
form a Government. The
total is 22, comprised of
12 Laborites, three Libs
and seven C.P.s. The
Country-party position is
most unusual; there are
contests in only two of
the nine seats the Cockles
held in the last Parlia-
ment.
• •
After proclaiming that
he intended to make no
promises, but to stand on
his record, Cahill took
fright at the last moment
and came out with a whole
swag of them, taking cafe
to point out that they
were a different brand of
promise from the Treatt
promises. His final effort
was a joint promise,
signed by himself and Bert
Evatt. It was a promise
to restore tax-allowances
of up to 40 p.c. for initial
depreciation on plant. It’s
strange that he didn’t men-
tion it in his policy speech,
this man who wasn’t going
to offer any election
bribes!
The Doc.’s contribution
to the promise was not
without humor. The under-
taking is that Joe will make the gesture if
taxing-powers return to the States. If
not, Bert will do it —“the Commonwealth
Labor Government will itself restore the
concession.” What Commonwealth Labor
Government?
• •
Liberal-party election advertisements
have been pepped up in the last fortnight.
The Emile Mercier cartoons have ex-
ploited the idea of propaganda-with-a-
smile, and the topical idea of presenting
the Cahill “record” as a cricket score-
board headed “This is the score after
Labor’s 12-year innings” is first-rate.
There was one blue in the score, though.
The entry “Public. Works, unfinished, 0”
should surely read “Public Works, un-
finished, hundreds.”
• •
Despite the attempts of some of the
principals to play hard-to-get it seems that
the Premiers’ conference will really be
held on February 20. Gair says he’ll
fly to Canberra after his election meeting
at Rockhampton on the 18th; Playford
Intends to deliver his policy speech on
the 19th and catch the plane next morn-
ing. Counting in doubtful seats may still
■be in progress in New South Wales, and
Westralia, but neither Cahill nor McLarty
has hinted at the possibility of his opposite-
number having to represent his State
instead. Perhaps they’re superstitious.
• •
For once a Victorian Government has
moved quickly. A watchful householder
at Surrey Hills reported a fruit-fly in his
orchard and within 24 hours the fruit
was destroyed and all trees within a
radius of a quarter of a mile sprayed.
Further, the Government Gazette “pro-
claimed” an area of four square miles,
200 men were drafted to pick all fruit,
drench it with D.D.T, and bury it in a
quarry ; the planting of all vegetables in
which the insect is interested was pro-
hibited and all residents of the area were
ordered to destroy blackberry and treat
blackthorn. Cain seems to have taken
a lesson from neighbor Playford.
• •
J. L. Geraghty, “unendorsed” Labor
M.L.A. for North Sydney, who was
“Labor’s” majority in the N. S. Wales
Assembly until the party accidentally
picked up Ashfield at a by-election, has
been throwing writs around. One of ’em,
for £5OOO, landed on C. W. Anderson,
“Labor’s” campaign director; another,
for £20,000, fluttered into the office of
Associated Newspapers.
• •
According to a Victorian Egg Board
supporter, abolition of the board would
mean a “return to jungle law from which
the producer and consumer must lose and
only the market speculator gain.” Well,
that would be nothing novel to the con-
DIGGING DEEP
sumer, who has been losing for years
anyhow.
e •
Cain’s caucus has been discussing the
draft of its two-for-one redistribution bill,
to be brought down as soon as the Vic-
torian Parliament assembles next month.
It roughly bisects every Federal electorate,
thus providing an Assembly of 66 seats,
one more than the present House. The
new set-up will mean 36 city seats and
30 country, compared with 32 and 33
respectively under the present arrange-
ment. Originally a Liberal baby, it
caused a domestic quarrel in the Lib.
family. Cain adopted it on an election
pledge and now has the job of legitimis-
ing it. After that is done the Country
party will no longer be able to call it what
they have been calling it.
• •
Defending his Government against
charges of having gerrymandered the
electorates, Gair asserts that his last re-
distribution aimed at giving “a balanced
representation to the city and country.”
His aim must have been pretty bad. The
argument in favor of allowing smaller
quotas for country areas is that it is essen-
tial to prevent rural interests being
swamped by the industrialised cities. In
Queensland its effect is to give special
representation to isolated pockets of
“Labor” voters whose interests are iden-
tical with those of the city, leaving the
primary producers around them without
a voice.
• •
Thus it is that “Labor” holds nine of
the 13 “country” seats in the western
zone and nine of the ten “country” seats
in the northern zone.
Reports that “Labor” has given away
or amended its Socialistic aim have been
answered by George Healy, a Queensland
“Labor” writer allotted space in Brisbane
“Courier-Mail.” Healy said that the
objective hasn’t changed, it is merely be-
ing modernised. Modernised? Isn’t that
what Stalin has done to Marxism?
• •
N.S.W. Liberals are charging “Labor”
with disfranchising people by virtually
abolishing the postal vote. The Libs
shouldn’t worry. Though the framers of
the legislation probably assumed that
Liberals did more travelling than the
underpaid wage-plug the thing is a
boomerang. Nowadays, with good pay,
thumping overtime, a month’s annual
holidays and three-months long-service
leave, the wage-plug is more likely to be
away on holiday next Saturday than
middle-class salaried people and business
executives.
• •
Like Melba’s final farewells, the latest
“final” decision on the Olympic Games
in Melbourne may be subject to revision,
but as things stand now the games will
be held at the Melbourne Cricket Ground
"and the projected £1,500,000 stadium at
Carlton will be merely a nostalgic memory
for architect Frank Heath and builder
Watts. The seating-capacity of the
M.C.G. is to be extended from 85,000
to 120,000 and a swimming-pool built;
the total cost of staging the athletic
drama is estimated at £850,000. The
Commonwealth Government, the Cains
and the City Council will underwrite the
cost to £H million, the Cains and the
C.C. a quarter-share each. The M.C.G.
will spend £300,000. The project should
be easily finished by the time appointed,
strikes and further changes of opinion
permitting.
• •
That salamander which allegedly failed
to live up to its reputation of incombusti-
bility at the Melbourne Aquarium fire
(B. 4/2/’53) was maligned. It is still
going strong, though looking more than
a trifle boiled.
• •
At their own expense, Melbourne
Lud Mayor Brens and Victorian
Minister for Health Barry are flying
to Mexico City to convince the
International Olympic Committee that
the citizens of Melbourne are serious
about the 1956 Games. They are cer-
tainly serious about something. When
Barry attempted to address a meeting at
Carlton he was nearly torn to pieces on
the ground that he had sold the workers
to the capitalists by letting the M.C.G.
pinch the Games site from the Carlton
Football Club.
• •
The deadlock which threatened to ruin
the Queensland Opposition parties’
chances of capturing the Nash seat, which
“Labor” member Dunstan won by 25
votes at the last election, has been settled.
Candidates had been selected by both the
Liberal- and Country-party organisations,
and for a time neither looked like
budging. In a first-past-the-post election
this meant giving the seat to “Labor.” ,
As a compromise, both the endorsed men
have withdrawn and R. N. Witham,
rhayor of Gympie, is standing with the
blessing of both parties. He’s the man
who ran “Labor” so close in 1950; with
Dunstan retired through ill-health,
Witham has a great chance this time,
• •
Cahill on public works:
I am not excusing one public work we
have begun. 1 can justify every one.
Yes, but can he complete any one?
• •
For some reason natural catastrophes
such as floods and tidal-waves are asso-
ciated in the minds of most people with
“new” or backward countries; they seem
out of place in orderly, long-settled lands
like England and Holland. But the tragic
happenings of last week’s storms and
high seas in the two countries with per-
haps the longest history of warfare
against the sea is a reminder that, even
in the Atomic Age, Nature still packs a
very powerful punch. Australians, par-
ticularly in those districts which have
experienced the ravages of floods in
recent years, will feel a bond of sym-
pathy for the districts so tragically hit
by the disaster, which at the latest figure
had claimed nearly 400 victims in and
around Britain and 1700 in Holland.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“The Boorie”: As the majority of
Darwin residents are public-servants, and
so exempt from jury service, that duty
falls with monotonous regularity on the
comparatively few eligibles. Lately one
citizen, fed-up with too-frequent calls for
jury work, sought exemption. He ex-
plained in melancholy tones that a
southern specialist had recently diagnosed
an acute heart condition which was such
that he was liable to drop dead at any
moment. Exemption granted, he strode
blithely from the court to the police-
station to renew the car-driver’s licence
he will never hold again.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Melbn”: An invasion of Melbourne’s
inner suburbs by snakes—one daily
recorded 46 cases of snakebite —recalls
the case of the Light Horse officer out on
manoeuvres near Warburton who was
bitten in two places. Owing to the
unusual position of the bites no ligatures
could be applied, so he was rushed by
"I like to think I'm making up for the music-lessons I had to take.”
fast car to a Collins-street specialist who
examined the bites and prescribed the
serum. As he was being led down the
stairs the officer stumbled, sat down and
immediately sprang to his feet. “I’ve been
bitten again,” he yelled, “and in the same
place!” The doctor conducted another
examination and then issued' his
diagnosis. “I don’t know what you did
the first time,” he said, “but this time
you’ve sat on yqirif spurs.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Loulalo”: A councillor of the Tambo
(Vic.) Shire came up the other day with
an idea which should render him certain
of re-election. Long-service leave for
“That should see us home.”
council employees was under discussion,
and all the pros and cons had had a
pretty good airing when he produced his
winner. Why, he asked, should it stop
with the man drawing a salary? The
ratepayers, after all, worked to keep the
council going and the same principle could
apply to them. He would suggest that
after a certain period, say 10 years, of
regular ratepaying a liberal rebate of
anything up to a year’s rates should be
allowed. Why not, indeed?
*x* i* ❖
“R.L.W.”: Mac and I drifted into the
Vienna Bar at Rishon (Palestine) one
night. It was crowded with thirsty
Diggers. Between us, we had the price
of a bottle of “Eagle” beer. We sipped
the insipid stuff and gazed covetously at
the extravagant display of bottles on the
shelf. Mac reconnoitred and discovered
the fuse-box. “I’ll dice the lights and
you grab a bottle,” he whispered. “Shove
it in your pocket; they’ll never miss
one.” When the lights went out I reached
and grabbed blindly. Within a few
moments the lights came on again. The
bar was lined with faces as bland and
innocent as my own. And then pande-
monium broke loose, the fat proprietor
and his wife screaming for the provosts.
No wonder. The entire shelf was empty!
Mac and I were first out. The M.P.s
found us next morning, asleep in the
Jewish cemetery alongside an empty
bottle of “Vat 69.”
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Irving”: Squeeze (B. 7/1 / ’53), is it? A
police-sergeant transferred to N.Q. re-
ceived as his first official caller a smiling
Chinaman who spoke about nothing in
particular for some time in beautiful and
flowery language, and made his abject
adieux without touching upon police
matters. Left alone, the sergeant was
writing it off as a courtesy-call when he
saw on the table near the chair on which
the Chinaman had been sitting a sizeable
wad of notes. He was in time to recall
his visitor, who said there had been no
mistake: “When new sergeant come I
always pay me taxes one time quick,” he
explained. “Might be old sergeant forget
tell new man I finish pay ’im.” New
sergeant asked under what head the taxes
should be entered. “Tchli glog taxes,”
he said. “I pay ’im Clistmas elevery yeh.”
+♦♦ ♦> ❖
“Davo”: On Radio Moscow the other
night I heard a female announcer with
a pronounced American accent inform
me that Russians had a great interest in
British poetry, and that many Ivorks had
been set to music by Soviet composers.
To illustrate this last assertion she then
played a record with vocal and music from
the Bolshoi Theatre. The piece chosen
was Bobbie Burns’s “John Anderson, My
Jo” ; music by Shostakovich.
♦> +>
“Pip Tok”: Those American publishers
paying advance royalties on a word-
for-word copy of a novel published eight
years previously (B. 14/1 / ’53) recalls the
fast one put over an American magazine
about 30 years ago. It ran a serial en-
titled “Wulfhere,” which was Rider
Haggard’s Nada the Lily t transplanted to
England of the time of the heptarchy.
All Haggard’s characters were reclad in
Saxon garb, and given Saxon names, with
that splendid old pagan Penda of Mercia
substituting for the Zulu tyrant, Chaka.
“Kelvin”: The exposure of that
U.S. jailbird plagiarist recalls a defama-
tion suit in Brisbane Supreme Court
arising out of a published accusa-
tion of plagiarism. After hearing a spate
of evidence from literary gentlemen and
not-so-literate legal arguments, ’Sonah
summed-up the plaintiff, who had initiated
the defamation suit against magazine pro-
prietors accusing him of piracy, in the
terse announcement; “I make no claims
to being a literary man myself, but one
bit of Shakspeare I do know and I will
apply it to the plaintiff. I quote, gentle-
men, ‘What bloody man is this?’ ”
■' *' ' * V\ ‘ ' v
“Vingter”: One of the earliest records
of court-proceedings arising out of alleged
literary piracy is given by Tiberius
Claudius Donatus in his Life of Virgil.
The suit arose from a poem written in
adulation of the Emperor Augustus, in
whose presence it was declaimed by the
sycophantic Bathyllus, who claimed the
composition as his own. He was immedi-
ately called a plagiarist by Virgil, who
claimed to be the real author. To clinch
his charge Virgil added to the disputed
distich four verses, each uncompleted
and breaking off after the words “Thus
you for others” , and challenging
Bathyllus to complete the added stanza.
When Bathyllus floundered, Virgil, in
merciless exposure of the pioneer
plagiarist, recited;
I wrote these lines, another wears the bays,
Thus you for others build your nests, 0
birds,
Thus you for others bear your fleece, 0
sheep,
Thus you for others honey make, O bees,
Thus you for others drag the plough, O kine.
♦♦♦
“Pate”; Not only Cole’s Funny Picture
Book was the fly’s friend (B. 14/1/’53).
Well over 50 years ago I memorised a
piece beginning:
I must not hurt a little fly;
It can feel as well as 1...
It was in a red-covered State-school
reader (Queensland), and haunts my
memory as I swat this summer’s plague.
“F.S.”: I read that one in 20 or 30
males have red-green color-blindness; one
in a thousand among women. The high
incidence in males suggests that many
men must be unaware of being color-
blind. I know of a color-blind gardener
who never found a ripe
strawberry, and thought his
soil was to blame; a man
who asked a lady in green
for whom she was in mourn-
ing ; and a doctor who in
years of ptactice has never
had a case of scarlet-fever.
I have never met a color-
blind art-student. The
totally-colorblind sees a
world of black, white and
grey; the partially-color-
blind sees a world that is
quite fantastic from the
point of view of the normal
person. But color is only
an added spice to form.
Many old masters painted in black and
white, and color might or might not be
added later. So it is remarkable that the
color-blind never go in for painting,
especially when the deaf people usually
take to music, even when all they can do
is feel the vibrations.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Bret Lawson”: My grandmother is a
descendant of Captain Piper, once
resident of Vaucluse House, and after
whom Point Piper (N.S.W.) and Piper-
street, Bathurst (N.S.W.), are named. In
her recently-published Letters, Rachel
Henning gives an account of a visit to the
Piper home in Bathurst. She describes
the beauty of the house and its surround-
ings in glowing terms, much to the grati-
fication of Granny. But when Rachel
alleges that while there she “partook of
biscuits tasting strongly of turpentine” .
well. Granny is most indignant at this
slight on the culinary skill of her
forebears.
“Becks”: Don’t know what philologist
told “Blanc” (B. 28/1/’53) that the Army
slang-word “mungaree” came from the
French manger, but he certainly wasnt
a Middle-East Digger. The word is
almost pure Arabic (Gyppo if you prefer
it) and the “g” is hard, as indicated in
the shortened form “munga.” It is true
that by the end of the war some bar-
barians were saying “mun-yar-ee” and
even “munjy,” but no real Digger
accepted these terms. As for “burgoo,
well, that expressive word for porridge
has a history going back long before the
two wars. It is not of Digger coinage,
they merely brought it into the Army
with them. For generations it has been
part of outback slang, and it was also
common currency among sailors in the
windjammer days. I have heard a
Hindustani origin ascribed to it, but, per-
sonally, I have always felt * there was
something Scottish about “burgoo ”
“Cyda”: “Mungaree” was brought
from India by British Tommies and is
simply a contraction of “I’m hungry.
Kids were sent out with these words on
their lips, to extract “baksheesh” from
susceptible Tommies, and it was usee
very successfully by Gyppo kids with
Aussies in 1915 when it became firm!}
established in Egypt. “Burgoo” is from
the same Indian-Army source, as were
many others such as “possy” (J ai w>
“char” (tea) and the well-known ‘Dela-
te!” (Blighty) meaning home.
VERY MOVING
“A delegate to the Victorian Teachers’ Union
annual conference said that teachers were becom-
ing more • like drovers than educationalists, so
congested had become many schools.”
He picks up the chalk.
And he just starts to talk,
Illustrating quadratic-equations,
In the hope that a word
By some chance may be heard
O’er the din of the kids’ conversations.
Then come sounds of a rush —
It’s a mob in the crush.
And the classroom is soon spilling over!
He’s engulfed, then and there.
Oh, it’s hard, they declare —
The life of a poor schoolie-drover.
In the playground two mobs
Will get “boxed,” and the job’s
His of culling, inspecting, rejecting.
It’s a horrible sound
When they’re milling around;
For the fence to collapse he’s expecting.
With ho dogs to assist,
Just a cane in his fist.
Observe the poor wretch as he’s earning
His pay. Hear him groan
When the job’s his alone
The wing of a mob to be turning.
With the dust rising thick
He has got to be quick
With the stragglers and those at the
edges.
They camp on the floor,
On the top of the door.
On the desks and on all window-ledges.
If enraged, he says “Damn I”
All the doors they will jamb
In the stampede for drinks. His
resources
He finds very lean —
The department’s too mean
To supply the poor drover with horses.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“ ’Arrvey”: The unanswerable retort
always sticks in the mind, especially when
it is made to you. After listening 10
minutes to an insurance-agent’s urgings
in my office during working hours, I told
him with some heat what I thought of
him, his policy and his company. He
waited until I stopped for breath. “Did
you know, young man,” he said, “that
your managing-director is one of the prin-
cipal shareholders in my company?”
❖ ❖
“Blanc”; “Billy,” said the Sunday-
school teacher, “this is the fourth Sunday
you’ve lost your penny for the collection ;
you must be very careless.” “Not care-
less,” said Billy. “Just unlucky. It’ll be
all right next Sunday. I can’t lose the
toss five times running.”
+> ♦♦♦ ❖
“Pat”: A friend was telling me about
the snaky letter he had received from
his grandmother, a nonagenarian living in
northern Queensland. “She’s a remark-
able old girl,” he said. “Writes every
month and gives us all the news. A
couple of months ago she happened to
mention how she was still chopping her
own wood. I thought it was a bit tough,
so I contacted some agents up there and
got them to fix up a delivery of chopped
wood to the old girl. Now she’s sent me
this letter, a rip-snorter, too. How dare I
lower her prestige in the neighborhood,
letting everyone think she’s no longer
capable of doing her own housework!”
“Cauboy”; Reported from the U.S.
that Eileen Joyce’s film biography,
“Wherever She Goes,” got a uniformly
enthusiastic response from the critics,
except the “New York Times” re-
viewer, who remarked: “A harmless,
plodding attempt to dramatise the
undramatic tender years of a lady who
plays the piano like nobody’s business.”
If he describes the struggles of that bud-
ding virtuoso as depicted in the film as
undramatic, I wonder what he would call
dramatic.
♦+« ***
“Tom”: The circular cottage at Unan-
derra (B. 14/1/’53) may be unique in
Australia, but numerous martello-towers
built on the English and Irish coasts
during the Napoleonic wars were after-
wards turned into homes, and still are
lived in. In Jasper More’s The Land
of Italy in the Batsford series there is
an illustration of a kind of circular
cottage peculiar to southern Italy. Cir-
cular houses were built in Cornwall in
deference to the superstition that the
devil lurked in corners; a two-story
example in cob, with thatched roof, is
shown in the Cornwall volume of the
Penguin series, The Buildings of Britain.
“Sebak”: The girl could
have been a reincarnation
of Nell Gwyn in accent
and looks. With her father
(presumed) she was shop-
ping at the grocer’s. A
considerable stack of foods
had accumulated on the
counter when she turned
to her companion and said;
“That seems abart all —
unless you know of any-
fink.” “There was pottid
meat,” reminded the man.
A tin added to the stack.
It seemed the order was
complete. Suddenly the
girl remembered: “A pand
of biskits.” The grocer’s
question was relayed to
father. “What sort?” His
decision was given prompt-
ly: “Them wiv messidges
on ’em.” The grocer look-
ed stumped. “You know,”
explained the Cockney,
grinning. “Them wiv writ-
in’ on ’em —‘Wot cher’ and
‘Oh you are a one’ and
fings like that.” 1 was
chuckling to myself at the
mixing of confectioneries
when the grocer’s reply
checked me. “Oh, talkie-
biscuits! Yes. One pound,
was it?” So once again a
New Australian taught me
something about my own
country. I wonder how
long conversation-lollies
have been crossed with
fancy biscuits!
“Harbel”: Fifteen years ago I borrowed
money to build a home; during the
business of signing the mortgage the
solicitor trailed off in the middle of ex-
plaining “hereby’s” and “hereinafter’s”
and sat gazing thoughtfully out of his
office window. Dire calamities flashed
into my mind: he’d just remembered
some legal obstruction, or he was think-
ing up some clause that would double
the interest or cut the capital, or . . .
At that point I followed his gaze —and the
sun shone again. Recently, an ambition
of 15 years’ standing at last achieved, I
went to collect my deeds. The office
was unchanged; the solicitor’s hair was
thinner and his tummy fatter, but he
hadn’t changed much —he still trailed off
and gazed out of the window as of yore.
The big store across the street hadn’t
changed, either ; its corsetry-fitting-rooms
Were still in the same place and obviously
it still considered blinds unnecessary.
*X* *>
“B. A. Ker”: With startling sudden-
ness the chap near me at the city bus-
stop opened up bitterly: “Look at that
young fellow —it’s the third time he s
yawned. If there’s one thing that gets
me savage it’s people yawning. If he
can’t stop yawning he ought to be in
bed.” I glanced at the offender and
mentally reflected that, if he felt the way
I did on this early Monday morning,
there was no place he would rather be
than in bed. Moreover, all this talk of
yawning . . . ! I clamped my jaws on
my back-teeth. But the tirade was not
over: “If I’m with anyone that yawns
I walk off and leave ’em. I can’t... look,
there he goes again. A fellow size
yawning all the time. A habit, that s all
it is.” By this time I was nearly giving
myself lockjaw. And still it went on:
“There he goes again” A bus pulled
in; it wasn’t my usual one and catching
it meant a fair walk the other end, but
it was a way of escape. Seated, I in-
dulged in the most luxurious yawn I ever
remember. As the bus pulled out the
young fellow yawned yet again. His
detractor glared—with his mouth open
in a yawn like the Great Australian Bight.
*** ❖
“V. Cluse”: There’s a new female in
our street. Somewhere in the early
twenties, dark and roving eyes, a swagger,
a front that seems to carry all before it.
Four of us, the youngest perilously close
to 50, were talking when she trailed her-
self by. Conversation ceased. Then eye
met eye. Norman merely grinned. Ray
muttered, “Gripes!” I said something
about the passing years. Joe kicked the
post disgustedly and said, “Wish I was
Superman.” “Superman?” “Well, if I had
his X-ray vision I’d be able to settle
my bet with the missus whether that
front grew there or is just part of a
rubber-tree.” Then we went back to golf.
“Yair”: Cockeyed camera-work! The
Sunday paper ran a front-page article
about a “chivalrous thief” who returned
a wedding-dress, leaving it at the paper s
office. The report said the thief wrote, on
the bag, “Forgive me, darling. Please
make one small gift to the Prisoners
Aid for the Unfortunates. For any further
information ring 8030 [Police
quarters]—they can’t catch a cold.” But,
in the photo which accompanied this
article, the thief’s writing showed up
plainly on the bag, and all went well as
far as the “For the Unfortunates” part.
Then, instead of the bright quips about
the cops, the thief’s writing read: “Please
don’t tell the police.”
♦> ❖ ***
“T.McN.”; That’s an unusual Swede
discovered letting a flat on the Queens-
land beach (B. 4/2/’53). He says “zey,”
“ze” and “zen” for they, the and then.
Every Swede I ever met—and I’ve met a
few —used the Teutonic “d” when his
tongue couldn’t manage “th.” Use of
the “z” suggests this particular Scowegian
was reared in France.
♦♦♦ *l* ❖
“Bo”: For about the fourth time in
as many months I have had served up
to me on celluloid the killer who stalks
his victims by night in a high-powered
car, awaiting his opportunity to massage
him —or her, in the latest case —against a
convenient wall with about 30cwt. of
hurtling metal. In each case I have been
struck by the strange absence of peri-
patetic humanity, for the setting has in-
variably been a great city. Just
brilliantly-lit streets and a ghostly silence
except for the low purring of the car and
the frenziedly-hurrying footsteps of the
intended victim endeavoring to shake off
the grim-jawed pursuer. The quarry, I
find, ignoring the first law of human
nature, always makes the killer’s job easier
by running along the footpath. Perhaps
the thought of ducking into a convenient
doorway would be regarded with righteous
abhorrence in Hollywood circles. And
what about the good old-fashioned
scream, guaranteed to lift 100 windows
at any hour of the day or night? But
don’t mind me—l’m just a caviller.
♦> ❖
“F’scray”: If “Strict Veg.” (B,
4/2/’53) knew anything about the life-
cycle of hydatids and the prevalence of
the beasts in this country he wouldn’t be
so ready to run round waste ground
plucking weeds for salads. More than
“It’s our only chance of getting in."
one man has collected a fatal dose of
hydatids simply from plucking grass and
chewing it.
®
Next Week
Rose Lindsay's Memoirs
Extracts from the unpublished memoirs
of Rose Lindsay (Mrs. Norman Lindsay).
“Schoolie”• Hear, hear! to “Becks’s”
scheme to protect parents from child-
mvcholoeists (B. 14/1/’53). Could
he Y extend it to cover the humble
schoohe? Old Charlie, relieving on
our staff was as sceptical as we
about nervous children; one day he
emerged from a battle with the school’s
notorious nuisance with a smile,
and the n.n. with a whacking big impot.
Rather large very angry, n.n.’s parent
stormed in next morning: “I’ll have you
know that the doctor said Johnnie’s very
highly strung!” “Madam,” snapped old
She “you go back and tell your doctor
that your Johnnie isn’t strung high
enough.”
“Wackford”: The beautiful young
artist of “F.S.” (B. 14/l/’53) is not the
first skirted-intellect to discover the
effect of oomph on critics. At the
teachers’ college I attended one lecturer
was notorious for the high marks he
awarded the easy-on-the-eye. A school-
friend of mine was disappointed with
her marks until I pointed out that the
“Pat” on her exercises might be con-
veying the wrong impression; sure
enough, as Patricia she went up vastly
in his estimation.
❖
“X.S.”: A Melbourne painter sent his
Archibald Prize entry to a carpenter to
be boxed for transport. A couple of
days later the carpenter rang. “Did your
picture have a hole in it when you sent
it?” “It certainly did not,” the artist said.
“Well,” said the wood-butcher, “it’s got
one now.”
♦♦♦ * ❖
“Tom Trout”: A London paper’s com-
petition for the best beard produced by
men under 21 emphasises the different
attitude to beards here from that in Aus-
tralia. Nobody in Sydney, where I let
my own grow a few years ago from
sheer ennui with dailv shaving, regarded
beards as natural things. I grew tired of
the assurances of the well-meaning that
they had admired my sculptures in an
exhibition or seen me with my easel in
Rushcutter Bay ; I was embarrassed by
being mistaken for a well-known member
of an esoteric jazz-group. I even had
complete strangers accost me in public
places and with icy eyes demand to know
why I wore a beard —their tone sug-
gesting that I had better have a reason-
able explanation or they would treat it
as a personal affront.
*** *t* *
“J.E.8.”: An English paper tells of a
woman who picked up a fountain-pen in
the street and handed it to a London
policeman, who noted her name and
address. Four months later she was in-
formed that, as the pen had not been
claimed, it was now hers and she could
have it by calling for it. She was luckier
than my father, who, years ago, in
London, found a bag containing 50
sovereigns. On taking them to Scotland
Yard he was told that if ownership was
not established in three months the
money would be his. In due course Dad
called at the Yard, and found that the
money had not been claimed. Presently
an officer said: “Sign here, please,” and
handed him two sovereigns. “What about
the other forty-eight?” asked Pop. In
polite London-bobby style it was gently
explained that disposal of lost property
was at discretion of the Commissioner.
The two pounds were merely reward for
honesty.
CREDO
I believe in miracles, flying-saucers, Paris,
The proven existence of Sherlock Holmes,
Don John’s virility, John Donne’s poetry.
Ducks on graves and shivers in bones.
I believe in sandals, open necks, baldness.
Anything different from veterans homes
All bewhiskered and dressed for the
visitors
But exactly the same on their scaffold of
bones.
I believe in magic ; surprise; grand
opera ;
The family as the basis of other people s
homes;
The peripeteia of Saint Cinderella;
The errors that ought to be bred in our
bones.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


Keep in
GOOD
spirit s
f
ength
HOSPITAL
b *andy
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lieut.-General Henry Wells shifts from
G.0.C., Southern Command, to Japan,
relieving Big Bill Bridgeford as 8.C.0.F.’s
chief. Hitler’s opening salvo found Wells
instructing in tactics at Duntroon. A few
months later his classroom was enlarged
to something the size of the Western
Desert, with Greece, Syria and Alamein
to follow. He came home with the Ninth
Division men, and, G. 5.0.1, went with
them for further stoushing in New Guinea
and Borneo, to become, after the tumult
had died, commandant of Duntroon.
He’s had 34 of his 54 years in uniform.
President of the Amateur Athletic
Union of Australia ; member of the Aus-
tralian and British Empire Games Associ-
ation ; sports-organiser of the Lord
Somers’ Camp (Vic.) for three terms;
selector for the Olympic Games for three
terms; manager of the Australian team
at the Empire Games in Canada; the
same for Melbourne’s Centenary Games ;
ditto for the Victorian team in the Aus-
tralian boxing and wrestling champion-
ships ; and (until he resigned last week
from the Melbourne Olympic Games
Organising Committee), as senior repre-
sentative of the International Olympic
Committee, in the middle of the Mel-
bourne muck-up—these posts represent
about half of what Hugh Richard Weir,
WEIR, of the I.O.C.
here portrayed, has done for amateur
sport since he was a champion sprinter
himself in Victoria. And all this done in
his spare-time! Normally he has, as well,
the job of managing the Sydney branch of
Mcllwraith McEacham, Ltd., which runs
the Kanimbla and half a dozen or so
other ships and colliers. Weir has always
stuck out solidly for the Olympics to be
staged in Australia with the same
origin alty and standard as in Helsinki —
no makeshifts.
“Fitz”: Although black-and-white artist Les
Such, who has been delighting Bulletin readers
with his drawings for more than 20 years
(latest crop on page 27), won a scholarship
while a youth in England entitling him to two
years’ training at the London Art School, he
turned it down because he wanted to be
an engineer, a sailor or a lumberjack. He
achieved the first two aims, and still has a
hankering for the third. After some years at
sea, Such sailed into Sydney Harbor in the
early ’twenties, and decided that Australia was
the place for him. Like another Bulletin
artist, Sid Black of West Australia, Such spent
many years at heavy toil, and learnt the art
game the hard way. After a turn as a bar-
man he was a builder’s-laborer, drove a
team of horses, then went to N. Queensland
cane-cutting and timber-felling. Deciding to
retire from the canefields and try his luck as
a freelance artist in Brisbane, he drew every-
thing, from jewellers’ advertisements and jam-
labels to comic-strips. Journeying to Mel-
bourne, he drew for “Table Talk,” “Sporting
Globe” and other papers before coming to
Sydney to draw for The Bulletin and other
Sydney periodicals. In War II he served with
an A.I.F. artillery unit which “sweated it out”
in West Australia. Tall, tough, easygoing, just
turned the half-century, Such is one of the
brightest in Sydney’s black-and-white art world.
Queensland’s newest Q.C., Graham
Hart, comes of a legal family well known
in the north. His father, P. L. Hart, was
sometime senior member of the Queens-
land Bar. The new Q.C. had been
associate to Henchman, J., and in practice
since 1933 —with time off for travel
through the Middle East and New Guinea,
holding an A.I.F. brief.
Eighty-eight in Melbourne, Sir William
Angliss was up at seven, at his office-
desk at 8.30 and reaching for his hat at
5.30, as usual. The only concession the
master-butcher has made to the years
that have passed over his head since he
came to Australia in 1884 is to cease to
be an M.L.A., and to work a five-day
week. He still controls the affairs of an
uncounted number of enterprises, from
knitting-mills to dockyards. It’s 60 years
since he started in the frozen-meat trade,
first to the Coolgardie goldfields and then
to U.K. during the Boer War.
With earlier experience as Australian
Army representative in London, Major-
General Edward Sheehan goes back to
Australia House, Defence Representative.
Fifty-four, he has been on continuous
staff-corps duty since he graduated from
Duntroon, and was recently Director of
Staff Duties at Melbourne H.Q.
Emperor of the Penguins:
The fact that the arrival under French escort
in Melbourne of the first emperor penguins
to leave Antarctica coincided with the arrival
of Sir Allen Lane, managing-director of the
English Penguins, might suggest another title
to him, most of the others having been
exhausted. Since, 18 years ago, the three Lane
brothers left their uncle’s house, the famed
Bodley Head, and, with a capital of £lOO, set
out to demonstrate that sixpenny reprints of
good books with soft covers would go down
with the British public, they have propagated
enough Penguins, Puffins, Pelicans and King
Penguins to populate the ice-floes of both poles.
When the trade heard of their project it let
out a horse-laugh—no Englishman would buy
a cheap book unless it was a mystery or a
murder-story. But, to everybody’s surprise,
both the literary and the illiterati rushed
them, and by 1937 over 100 titles had been
published. Then the Pelicans were launched,
with Shaw’s Intelligent Woman’s Guide to
Socialism in the forefront. This was followed
by the world’s first simultaneous publishing in
different countries of a million books in one day
by a single author —Shaw once more. D. H.
Lawrence, H. G. Wells, Agatha Christie and
Evelyn Waugh were treated in the same way.
Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales, done into modern
English by De Rieu, sold 200,000 copies. A
modern prose version of Homer sold out.
Having pretty well captured the book-
stalls in every English-speaking country, the
firm is considering a branch in Melbourne which
will print and reprint books by Australian
authors. Aijstralians, according to Sir Allen,
are the workPs heaviest readers. He is includ-
ing in this year’s Puffins The Meeting Pool, a
Malayan jungle-story by Mervyn Skipper, The
Bulletin’s Melbourne representative.
Czechoslovakia goes through its travail
of changing Governments, but its Consul
in Melbourne goes on, if not for ever,
at least regardless. Edgar Peacock
notched, the other day, his 21st year in
the post —and he took it over from his
father in the first place. He’s a master-
printer by trade.
Dropped in at The Bulletin’s Mel-
bourne office with an MS. of his father’s,
John Collins, of Meekatharra, who also
has an MS. ready for publication. An
air-route map of Australia on the wall
dated 1937 drew the comment that a few
more lines could be added. Collins, a
young pilot who was with the R.A.A.F.
in New Guinea in the late war, has added
a few himself. He runs five planes from
Meekatharra for the flying-doctor service,
and sometimes on even more unusual
missions, like sowing wild-dog baits in the
Western Desert. He touches Broome and
Port Hedland in the north, Carnarvon in
the west and even goes as far south as
the Leeuwin, which is a fair wad of
Australia. Meekatharra is on the fringe
of the rocket-range, and missiles whizz
past occasionally on their way to Cocos
Island. Although the mercury is never
below 100 for six months of the year,
Collins reckons it’s the healthiest climate'
in the country. His book is called Thin
Air, and deals, among other matters,
with the flying-doctor service. His father
(“Pip Tok” of The Bulletin) has written
a biography of David Collins, the first
Governor of Tasmania and a connection
of his family. He is looking for a pub-
lisher for it under the title Per Mare:
Per Terra.
Wati Chilpa, meaning “grey-haired,”
is the cognomen given by the people he
has mixed with so much to C. P. Mount-
ford, the Adelaide post-office man who
used his holidays and leisure to such
advantage that he made himself the lead-
ing authority on the Aranda and the
Arnhem Land native —so much so that
he was given the leadership of the
National Geographical, Society’s Ameri-
can-Australian expedition of 1948. His
color-films of the habits and customs of
the Stone Age men of the Never Never
became world-famous. He was sighted
the other day at the back of the Adelaide
Museum writing a book which, with hun-
dreds of illustrations, will be his fourth
on his particular subject.
An all-the-year-round athlete, R. M.
(“Mac”) Evans, who for over 50 years
has been keenly in touch with soccer,
becomes president of the Westralian
Soccer Association. A well-knit 68, he
captained the State team for several years,
and looked to the future of the game by
helping pioneer the Westralian Junior
Soccer Association. In summer a leading
cricketer, versatile bat and fast bowler,
he represented the State for about
20 years, and captained the Westralian
XI in 1923-24. His first match
against England was in 1907, when the
Test team led by A. O. Jones was in
Perth; his last was against Arthur Gilli-
gan’s team in 1924. He’s seen every Test
match played in Australia against England
over 30 years. Between Saturdays, he
helped run the railways, chief traffic
manager when he retired three years
back.
Appended hereunder, Francis Fuller,
an old Harrovian who began his real
education as a cadet with the Aberdeen
White Star Line in 1915. He first saw
Sydney when his ship was berthed at
Garden Island for conversion to a
trooper, in which capacity she transported
in the Mediterranean, Persian Gulf,
Atlantic and Pacific. After War I he
joined James Patrick and Co., mate, and
later commanded six of the company’s
vessels. He swallowed the anchor in
1938, but not the chain, which moored
him to the Brisbane office, manager, a
berth he still fills. In Hitler’s show Fuller
FULLER, of James Patrick
taught the Naval Auxiliary Patrol how
to get from one point to another. Like
most retired skippers, he has a penchant
for oil-painting; member of the Royal
Queensland Art Society, he exhibited
seascapes in oils at its last two annual
exhibitions. He still gets a whiff of salt
now and again as secretary of the Court
of the Company of Master Mariners.
Potted here by Coventry, Noel Lothian,
the man with the biggest garden in the
garden-city of the south —Director of
Adelaide’s 45-acre botanic gardens and
75-acre botanic park. His father claims
young Lothian had a trowel in his hand at
18 months —what is definite is his widely-
culled knowledge of the art. He gradu-
ated at Burnley Agricultural College, Mel-
LOTHIAN, of Adelaide’s gardens
bourne, in 1932, and since then has
worked in gardens at Fitzroy (Mel-
bourne), Christchurch (N.Z.), the famed
Kew spread in England, and in Munich’s,
Germany. In 1939 he traded trowel for
an A.LF. rifle, but was soon posted back
to trowel, using his weapon on an Army
farm in New Guinea, growing fruit and
veges for the troops. Three leaves of
silver-beet up there, he remembers,
weighed one pound. Before his present
appointment Lothian was senior-lecturer
at New Zealand’s Lincoln Agricultural
College. Recreation? —Yes,, that’s cor-
rect.
This year’s National Theatre Festival
find in Melbourne, yet to be proved, is
Bill Carse. Bill was a former Kew news-
boy whose soprano voice woke up the
residents of that salubrious suburb and
the nimbleness of whose feet was favor-
ably noted by the newsagent who em-
ployed him. He makes his debut in the
Australian premiere of the ballet
“Caprice,” at the Princess Theatre.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, Carrie Francis, well-known in
England years ago as an artist and ■ Empire
worker. She lived for 50 years in England,
exhibited at the Royal Academy and the Pans
Salon and made miniatures in Limoges enamel
which won her the Victorian and Albert medal
against competitors from all over the U.K. A
member of the Royal Empire Society for 35
years, she came back to Australia 12 years ago.
At 85, in Perth, Evan Thomas, well known
in industrial and arbitration matters in Westraha
for many years. After long service as stafi-
agent for the Westralian railways he was
appointed employers* representative on the State
Arbitration Court bench, from which he stepped
down to retirement in 1946,
At 90, in Sydney, Cedi Purser, a Foundation
Fellow of the RA.CJP., Fellow of Sydney Uni-
versity senate for 30 years and in his time one
of the dty’s best-known consulting physicians.
Many practising medicoes will remember him
as their examiner in final-degree medicine at
Sydney University, a post he held for close on
20 years from 1911. He took his first medical
degree in 1890.
In Christchurch (N.Z.), at 82, Herbert Brett,
master organ-builder, who in 1905 brought out
and erected the organ for the International Ex-
hibition at Hagley Park, Christchurch. Settling
in the City of the Plains, he built the first
electro-magnetic organ in New Zealand, and was
responsible for many of the country’s finest
church and chamber organs.
In Sydney, at 83, Broughton Barnabas
O’Connor, at the turn of the century Minister
of Public Instruction in the N.S.W. Cabinet.
Law graduate of Sydney University and a prac-
tising barrister, he had a long term as State
member for Sherbrooke.
In Perth, at 72, Gustavus Herman Herbert,
a pioneer of the bulk-handling of wheat in
Westralia. Starting out as a pastoralist in the
north-west, he moved to the wheat-belt and
put in more than 30 years farming in the
Nungarin district. At the end he was a director
of Co-operative Bulk Handling, Ltd.


BLACKBERRY-TIME


ABORIGINALITIES
“Curate’s Egg”: A lot of people in
the township get free medical advice by
chatting the local doc. in the street, in
shops, or wherever they happen to sight
him. The doc. usually is pretty free with
his knowledge, but his generosity was a
shade too
much for
Bill, who
hoisted his
shirt in the
pub and
asked him
to “take
a squint at
this” “this”
being an
angry car-
buncle o n
Bill’s dusty,
sweat-
streaked back. The doc. studied it for a
few moments and then, with a bawl like
a branded steer. Bill nearly cleared the
counter. “Keep it clean,” the doc. said,
wiping his pocketknife.
* * * *
“5.4 E.”; Remember the old bush
ballad of “The Dying Stockman”?:
“. . . *. cut down a couple of saplings,
place one at my head and my toe ...”
Well, we did that for the bagman we
buried near the artesian-bore by the road-
side, on the treeless North Queensland
downs, years ago—thick 6ft. gidgee posts
brought from the nearest timber eight or
10 miles away. But the bore was a
favorite halting-place for travellers, and
boiling the billy needs firewood, of which
there just isn’t any in those parts. So
everybody who stopped concluded the
deceased probably didn’t need fuel where
he’d gone, and pulled out the axe and
carved a few slivers off the markers. One
post was only a foot-high spike before
the mound had properly settled, and the
ether was showing signs of wear and tear
within a year, and by now I suppose
there’s hardly anybody left who knows
that it’s “there a poor stockman lies low.”
It probably seems callous behavior to
those who don’t know those parts in all
their desolate treelessness, but I’m game
to bet the poor unknown didn’t grudge
his markers—in fact, he’d have probably
done the same himself if he’d been on top
instead of down below.
* * * *
“Bass”; Surveyors working on the new
town-site at Kwinana, Westralia’s oil-
refinery town, are being chased off the lot
by a black brumby stallion. He’s the
leader of a band which for years has had
an open go over that part of the coastal
plain, and if he has any fear at all it isn’t
of men. Come td think of it, I don’t
suppose there are many things in his own
world that he’d fear. Dogs that would
bring down kangaroos for the fun of it
wouldn’t be a mouthful to a brumby
stallion. He’d be unlikely to meet a wild
bull, but if he did and it came to a fight
my money’d be on the horse. I’d say
that in all his life he’s never
met anything that wasn’t prepared
to step aside for him, and that
includes the blokes who are now survey-
ing his domain. They don’t stop to argue
when he charges, and they’d be fools if
they did. Attempts to lasso him have
failed —he sees or senses the rope coming
and puts his head between his legs. Why
doesn’t someone shoot him? Perhaps it
may come to that in the end. But in W.A.
we don’t lightly consider ending a life
that’s free, and we’ll defend his freedom.
* * * *
“Tamana”: At this time of year the
area around the wheat silo at Erigolia
(N.S.W.) railway-station is covered each
morning with kaleidoscopic colorings of
budgies, finches, crested pigeons, galahs,
etc., whose thousands completely carpet
the ground. Silos are popular feeding-
spots for birds, but nowhere else have I
seen such big daybreak gatherings of
varied species. Recently I obtained some
galahs from Weethalle in this same wheat-
belt. For weeks the birds refused any
feed other than wheat and oats, sunflower-
seeds and maize being rigidly taboo. Yet
the galahs reckoned cuttlefish the choicest
item on their menu. Odd that birds
born in an inland wheatbelt should so
avidly polish off fodder which must be
alien to them. Or is it an inbred hang-
over from the days when much of inland
Australia was an inland sea?
“Gulliver”: Some writers of bush
stories seem particularly keen on the
“tinkle of the bullock-bells beside the
creek at dawn,” or at dusk along the
lagoon, or any other old place and time.
It’s a nice bit of writing, except that
bullock-bells just don’t tinkle. They
boom, clang or go “clonk,” being usually
of the heavy Condamine variety, wider
at the top than at the mouth and measur-
ing at that point about lOin. by 4in. I’ve
been in many an argument as to the best
type of bell, and every time my vote has
gone to the good old heavy Condamine
—ever since the evening I heard one on
the neck of a bullock in a paddock eight
miles away. It was, of course, a quiet
evening with a light breeze blowing from
the direction of the bell. And the bell
was a particularly large one. The Con-
damine has another advantage in that its
sound cannot be confused with the note
of the bellbird, nor with any of the strange
medley of sounds you seem to hear,
apparently from all directions, just before
sunrise when you’re straining your ears
to pick up a jangle.
* * ♦ *
“Bogaduck”: The jungle-wallah who
reckoned his dog had been cheating at
poker (B. 28/1 /’53) reminds me of some
A.I.F. blokes at an isolated outpost in
New Britain. As a cure for boredom,
somebody suggested putting on a troppo
act. The idea caught on, one lad grab-
bing another by the arm, pointing to the
hut rafters and shouting: “There it goes!
Look at the head on it!” The other
stared, then roared; “What a beauty!
“Send the Flying Squad to Shaking-bog Flat—the whole of the
population are abusin' the liquor laws!"
Just like a Tasmanian racing oyster!” In
no time a mob was milling around in the
hut, shouting encouragement to the one
who was trying to capture the
creature with an improvised butterfly-net.
Attracted by the noise, the C.O, looked in
but could see nothing, A corporal who
could keep a straight face said, in wide-
eyed wonder; “Can’t you see it, sir?”
He backed away when the officer shouted
“No! And shut up this blasted row!”
After that everyone was on the hunt for
mythical creatures, ranging from flying
cuttlefish to water-sparrows. Men met
to compare newly-caught specimens p a
fine old row broke out when one accused
another of stealing his 12-legged snake.
The C.O. raved, threatened and put men
on charge-sheets, but it was hopeless—the
troppo act had now got completely out of
hand, with troops racing about pursued by
crocodiles wearing kilts and straw hats.
Finally a visiting padre put an end to it.
“If you don’t call it off you’ll have a real
troppo case,” he warned them. “The
C.O.’s just about off his rocker.” As the
“Building the ship was easy—the difficult part is getting it into
the bottle."
captain wasn’t such a bad sort, the boys
agreed to call a halt. It was about time—-
I, for one, was starting to have horrible
nightmares, and no kidstakes about ’em.
if * * *
“G.”: When the tank-sinker from the
Four-mile came galloping in to announce
that his wife and four-year-old boy were
lost, I was sent off full gallop to
fetch the teamsters from their camp up
the river’ and though it was late after-
noon and raining pitchforks, they came
like a shot. Those men were ready to ride
day and night for a week, if need be,
and they’d have been insulted if payment
had been offered; their sympathy for
the husband was wider and deeper than
a well. Yet such is the nature of the
bushman that, having a meal before they
started, they began recalling other lost
folk they’d sought, and how, when So-
and-so was found, “he’d been et be the
pigs,” or the crows, or the ants. They
recalled how “Joe died o’ drought,” with
all the ghastly details—and all the while
the poor wretched husband sat at the
table. It was thoughtless and harrowing,
of course, but those men were simply
turning over in their minds the problems
of the coming search, relating them to
past experience as a guide to future action,
musing aloud as bushmen do. I don’t
know what else they dwelt on during
the ride to the Four-Mile, but it’s a safe
bet the tank-sinker forgave them every
word when one turned up at sundown
with the lost ones safe and sound. I’ll
bet. though, that he was a nervous wreck
by that time — why, those teamsters would
never have been able to comprehend.
* * * *
“Sebak”: Not so long ago it was
impossible to travel farther than two spits
from Sydney without striking the old cove
v/ho would tell you, somewhat proudly,
that he’d never seen a tram. Today he is
being pushed farther and farther inland.
The reason is, shortage of building-
materials having coincided with a decision
to sell Sydney’s worn-out trams, the
mountain has been taken to Mohammed.
Many miles after the last tram-track has
dropped behind, you’ll find the old
vehicles doing a stationary job on blocks
by the roadside. I’ve often wondered
what the spook of Hamilton Hume said
when a couple of them were trundled past
the site of his old homestead en route to
their anchorage at Appin (N.S.W.). Come
to think of it, Rachel Henning’s shade
would also be interested at this apparition
near the scenes of her first experience of
country life in Australia. There’s even
one in Kangaroo Valley, over 100 miles
from Sydney and at the bottom of the
dizzily zigzagging climb over 2250 ft.
Cambewarra Mountain.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: When the farmer
invited us up to the house for a game of
five-hundred Mat was against it, but 1
managed to talk him into it because I had
my eye on the daughter. She was dark-
haired and a good-looker and about 24.
As soon as we got there the daughter
began to talk to us. She used real high-
falutin words and gave us her opinions
on history and astronomy and modern art
and metaphysics and pretty well every-
thing else. The father, mother and
brother were obviously dazzled by her.
So was Mat —at least, he was dead quiet.
When the supper was served he opened
up, “Your daughter’s had a good educa-
tion,” he said loudly to the mother.
“She’s got a grip l o’ things.” “Oh, yes,’’
the mother said proudly. “She always was
clever. That’s why we sent her to college.
Why, do you know, she actually learned
to talk at nine months old.” Mat fixed
his eyes on the girl. “Well,” he said, “she
must nearly have a repord now.” “A
record?” “Too right, anyone who can
start talking at nine months and keep it
up all them years must be flamin’ close
to a record.” We played all subsequent
card games in our tent.
* * * *
“O. K. Lee”: American scientists have
proved to their own satisfaction that the
barnyard hen has a spoken language. I
can add one word to their lexicon —the
chook-word for deathadder. It resembles
the exclamation “t-c-c-c-h!” with which
we humans express reproach. I learned
it in the Torres Straits islands, where the
deathadder is the only form of venomous
snake. The hens ignored all other kinds
of wriggler, but always sounded the one
particular warning-note when the stumpy
reptile was in the offing. The warning
was quite distinct from those sounded
when the danger lay from hawks or
goannas, and, significantly, the chicks
always fled directly away from
maternal bird instead of to the shelter
of her protective wings as with all other
alarm-signals and fowl language.
MARKET DAY
[From the “Rangamatty” eclogues.]
In these clay-cradled trees high
nested the crested bellbirds
sing a thing I knew once
but they, today, say.
Fingering the tallest treetpps
the dawn wind lingers still.
Deep-delled, the sheep-bells ring
curfew to keep morning-quiet..
Like a bright gliding snake
in a new speckled vest
—the harmless carpet-snake
who patrols this breezy hill —
astonishing the risen Sun,
a yellow ostentation.
Cup, Ruby! To my dipper,
to my dipper of corn, come!
Cup, Ruby, red-roan!
Harnessed to my roughcast cart,
clop, clop, to Picton take
ten tin cream-cans,
a firkin of butter stamped
with my crown and thistle,
six chickens in a coop,
a sackful of cucumbers.
N.S.W.
ETHEL ANDERSON.


“Neerim”: I’d been blasting a few
parrots out of the fruit-trees and doing
a few other odd jobs, what time the kids
made daisy-chains with daisies, dandelions
and buttercups and draped them about
my old hat. I picked up the gun and
headed towards the house just as
the salesman drew up in his car. “G’day,”
I said, adding the then popular remark,
“Wish the rain would fall up instead of
down.” He looked at the gun, the bowers
and at me. “G’day,” he said. “Just
turnin’ round.” He was out the gate
in seconds flat.
* * « «
“Brick E.”: “Gravelsnatcher” mis-
understood my meaning (B. 31/12/’52);
1 did not imply that the flesh of the kooka-
burra is unpalatable, but I repeat that the
ihought of Jacko being sacrificed to make
a Roman holiday or a Neapolitan repast
is decidedly unpalatable to every dinkum
Aussie. Not that I think many people
have any illusions about the feathered old
reprobate; most know why every nest-
ing bird in the bush chdses him away, and
few believe that he accounts for large
numbers of snakes; nevertheless, I’m
happy to say that, in the Ma State, any-
way, old inhibitions still keep him on his
pedestal. Show me an Old Australian
who will wantonly shoot a kooka and
I’ll show you a coot who would poison
his mate’s dog.
* * ♦ ♦
“B. A. Ker”: We were all strangers to
the locality, having arrived with our tools
and gear on the site of the cow-cocky’s
new home that morning. At lunch-time,
as we sat enjoying the panorama of green
paddocks rolling away. Chippy pointed
out one of those objects that surveyors
erect on the highest points and asked,
“How far away do you reckon it is?”
Guesses ran from one mile to three. “A
full three, I’d say,” decided Chips, then
brought out his .22 repeater with the quiet
boast: “I can put a few shots through it
from here.” He fired half a dozen shots.
“Bet a few of ’em went through,” he
said confidently. “Like fun,” I scoffed.
Chippy looked reproachful. “Tell you
“That lift's always on the blink."
what I’ll do,” he offered. “After knock-
off you go and have a look ; if there’s
no bullet-holes in it I’ll cook your tucker
right throughout the job; if there is,
you cook mine.” No apprentice was ever
more confident of winning a bet than I
was, and every weary step in that long
hike boosted my confidence. It was a
stunned, incredulous youth who, after a
tortuous climb, found the disk had four
bullet-holes in it. But it was a savage
youth who was told —on the last day of
the job—that in any rural district you
could safely bet that there would be
bullet-holes in those surveyors’ disks;
the very shape of them was a challenge
to a fellow carrying a rifle —within a
range of two or three hundred yards.
Jf! ' # *
“The Bunyip”: Lusby (B. 28/l/’53)
should know his pawpaws better than
that; the male tree never carries fruit.
From its trunk trail flower-stems up to a
yard long, the creamy blossoms dotted
along their distance. The female, when
a few feet high, sprouts a flower-bud at
the base of a leaf, and once that starts it
is continued for the life of the tree, until
you have a 10ft. trunk carrying a com-
plete range, from half-formed buds on
the tip to ripe fruit some distance below.
The only definite break in the sequence
I ever saw was when D.D.T. was sprayed
from aircraft on Morotai; there fol-
lowed a break of about a foot on all
pawpaw-trees where the fruit never set
all the fertilising insects had for the time
been killed off. Anyway, I don’t think
the vegetables that puzzles Lusby’s horti-
culturist are pawpaws at all; they’re
pawconuts. Queer things happen in the
islands.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: I like the way A. E.
Sturges got the jerk of the wattle-bird’s
call into his verse (B. 28 /1 / ’53). We
Gippsland (Vic.) youngsters used to call
him IFu/ika-pu-wa/ika, which is up to the
quality of some of the abo. names for
birds, but which, I fancy, must have been
purely a local name, for I have not heard
it since. On behalf of a bunch of former
bush kids whose addresses and hair are
now mostly lost, the name is offered to
A. H. Chisholm and those of his cobbers
keen on finding expressive, descriptive
names for those of our native fowl at
present laboring, albeit unawares, under
such titles as chisel-billed mussel-buster
or worse. At our little bush school, tree-
climbing was placed outside the law;
but spring would come round and the
birds would be nesting, and when Bill
turned up about three o’clock after
“lunch” the boss’s voice would have a
sinister sweetness in it. “And how many
nests did you find, Willie?” The answer
flashed back, “Two wahka-pu-wahka’s
an’ a spike-nozzle’s”—and Bill promptly
collected the sixer that was coming what-
ever the answer had been. The old boss
thought our chuckles were at Bill’s dis-
comfiture ; what he didn’t know was
that the two fowl were the same bird.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: “Wilpa” gives a good
account of an abo. legend, but he’s
wrong in claiming that Kangaroo
Island (S.A.) “was
never visited by
aborigines until
after the arrival of
the whites” (B.
28/1/’53). Some 40
years ago Prof. How-
chin, the geologist,
brought aboriginal
hammer-stones from
the island. Norman
Tindale, the ethno-
logist, accompanied
by Dr, Brian Mae-
graith, then paid
the place a visit
and found abund-
ant evidence that
it had been in-
habited in the remote
past. Numerous
campsites littered
with stone tools of
the type used by the
extinct Tasmanians
were found on the
shores of what had
once been freshwater
lagoons, but which
are now salt-lakes.
What had happened
was fairly obvious.
The first human
beings to enter Aus-
tralia were Negritos.
They came here dur-
ing the last Ice Age,
when so much water
was locked up in vast
glaciers that the
ocean levels were
some 230 ft. lower
than they are today. This not only
laid bare an almost continuous land
bridge all the way from South-
east Asia to Australia, but also
linked Tasmania and Kangaroo Island
to the mainland. Eventually the
Negritos found their way to both places,
only to be cut oft when the great ice-sheets
melted and the waters rose again. The
tribe left isolated on Kangaroo Island died
out—possibly through inbreeding—
thousands of years ago. No skeletons of
these vanished islanders have yet been
found, and only a great fluke may ever
bring one to light, as the Negritos
cremated their dead.
* * * *
“Gravelgnatcher”: Whenever a prisoner
escapes from a Westralian jail he makes
for Kalgoorlie, with
the idea of crossing
the Nullarbor to
what, by some twist
of convict reasoning,
he thinks is the
safety of another
State. The last to
try this route stole
a car in Perth and
actually reached
the goldfields. He
might have gone
further only the car
had a radio and the
police, knowing this
and having some
idea of his where-
abouts, broadcast a
series of news-flashes
to create the impres-
sion that they were
hard on his heels.
The result was that
he was afraid to
make a move, and
when found, in his
hideout in the bush,
was too weak to run.
But why do these
blokes all make in-
land? There are
caves along the
coast, up to a mile
from the sea, less
than 30 miles north
of Perth, in which
a man could live,
emerging to catch
fish, bring down an
odd ’roo, or raid one
of the market-
gardens that fringe
the swamps. You’re
never far from a
swamp in that district,
and they’re often full
of ducks which an
“How the blazes did 131 git into the women's
section?"
ingenious man could snare easily. All
this could be done without attracting any
attention. Further north, a man can travel
the coastal plain as far as Dongara with-
out finding it hard to dodge human habi-
tation, and without ever being a day’s
march from fresh water. To the south
between Perth and Esperance, there are
inlets and estuaries where anyone could
hole-up and live in luxury. He’d soon
learn to go barefooted, and he should
be able to catch enough ’roos and rabbits
to clothe himself in skins. All this pre-
supposes a life of exile, of bourse, but
what other life awaits a modern refugee
from justice? 1 mean, the whole idea
of escaping is to remain free. Or isn’t it?
* * ♦ *
“Laetitia”: It’s as well to be quite sure
that caught sharks, and some of their
fellow-denizens as well, have really
passed out. About five years ago
P. Durbidge, a deep-sea fisherman, work-
ing off Mooloolaba, 60 miles north of
Brisbane, hooked an Bft. tiger, gaffed and
hung it by the snout in the cabin of the
launch. Half an hour later, as he brushed
past the strung-up monster, its jaws
snapped on his left shoulder. He couldn’t
reach a gaff to prise the teeth open and
could only hope that his cries could be
heard by other fishermen. He was
rescued 20 minutes later after he had
fainted through loss of blood. Also, I’ve
seen a man’s shinbone laid bare by a
supposedly dead mackerel which, after
being “woodened” with a tiller-handle,
had lain on deck for an hour.
* * * *
“Gulliver”; Everything from the atom-
bomb down seems to be blamed for
vagaries of the weather, but I blame our
immigration officials. It is quite clear
that, through some laxity in the screening
process, a Finn has been allowed through
—perhaps, and even worse, a Russian
Finn. As every shellback knows, these
gentry are warlocks and witches endowed
with special powers over the weather.
Time out of number, they have held tall
ships in calms for weeks on end or called
up mighty seas to destroy them.
Evidently, by way of retaliation for
missing out on the fat job and 10-room.ed
mansion promised him, one of them is
now playing Old Harry with wind and
rain and chortling with fiendish glee over
every ruined weekend, abandoned race-
meeting and flooded dog-track. To deal
with him I suggest the following adapta-
tion of the mariners’ standard method.
First, find the Finn —a well-tattooed old
windjammer-man plentifully stoked with
chewing-tobacco should smell him out
in no time. Next, hale him aft to the
poop (Canberra) for a savage tongue-
banging by the skipper (any politician),
who will threaten to chain him in the
bilges. This will reduce the miscreant
to a state of shuddering horror and the
hex will lift forthwith. But, first find
the Finn,
“Sackville”: A strange aspect of canine
addiction to rolling in odoriferous messes
(B. 7/1/’53) is the hound’s persistent
failure to connect the smell with his
master’s sudden, explosive abuse. In
most other cases dogs generally seem able
to link the punish-
ment with the
crime and, if that
doesn’t make them
refrain from re-
peating the
offence, they at
least contrive to
look decently
guilty about
it. But a pooch
stinking to high
heaven will make his entry with tail
happily erect and tongue dripping good-
fellowship, and will be completely mysti-
fied by the commotion which precedes
his prompt and enforced exit.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: When Mat set out to under-
mine a boulder for the sake of a match
somewhere out of Warragul (Vic.) it went
deeper than “the principle of the thing”
(B. 28/l/’53); he had become infected
with the passion for slogging that some-
how seems to be part of a Gippslander’s
life. I was in Warragul a couple of
weeks ago, and half the blokes I saw, and
some of their wives, looked as if they’d
been helping Mat, or had humped the
gibber on their backs to some place where
it wouldn’t interfere with the pastures.
Money has nothing to do with it —many
of those folk are making more hundreds
than ever I made tenners down that way—
but despite the evident prosperity there
is little evidence of leisure; well dressed
and affluent, they still looked sloggers.
Two days later I was in Albury (N.S.W.),
and the faces in Dean-street were of a
different type. Their owners seemed busy
enough, but if their work was as urgent
as the Gippslanders’ the marks of it
weren’t stamped so deeply on their mugs
—the light from other interests kept
breaking through. Perhaps round Warra-
gul the hills, *tnaybe the climate, or even
the delayed action of having had to clear
the world’s heaviest trees to make room
for farms explains all; Albury, on the
other hand, could have caught some of
the solid dignity that radiated from old
Jimmie Soden’s pub. Mat might know.
OARSMAN AT SUNSET
The sunset clings to the heart it nourishes, . . .
Nudged by the hills and drawn by ibises,
It moves into the lonely tides of his mind
Like a landslide slowly breaking through the
trees.
His dinghy glides on the river’s shining reach.
He stands up with a song in the evening,
Lunging at each oar’s summons with a rhythm
Swarthy and strong as a great bird’s beating
wing.
And bending on the stream he travels, beneath
The trees’ blossoms that drift across day’s flight,
He raises the flake-white clamor of the gulls
To the vaporous cliffs of . the dark and looming
night.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


t 5.
j!
Ik
DEPENDABLE
&
ssr
CAPSTAN Social Mild
CAPSTAN Medium
Plain
PALE BLUE PACK
CAPSTAN, Medium
Cork-Tipped
NAVY BLUE PACK
967 D-10.52
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Why Capital Is Scarce
From “A.H.Y.” (N.S.W.):
In B. 31/12/’52 you speak of
“wasting capital which is scarce.”
As one who knows nothing of inter-
national finance, but who genuinely
seeks enlightenment, would you
explain (in view of prevailing prices
for raw materials and the spending-
money available to both the people
and the Government) why capital
should be as short as Mr. Menzies
would have us believe it is.
Our main source of national income,
wool, is at almost record high level;
the value of stock and agricultural
produce has seldom been higher;
while we understand that our over-
seas balances are extremely favorable.
The income available to the Govern-
ment is now computed in hundreds
of millions of pounds. Wages have
never been higher, and, in spite of
propaganda to the contrary, the inci-
dence of unemployment is low, while
Christmas spending was an all-time
high.
It would seem that the only scarcity
of capital is due to recent restrictions
by legislation on the lending-power
of banks, and that, therefore, the
shortage of capital as alleged is
Government-manufactured.
The principal reason why
capital inside Australia is scarce
is that, regardless of how large
our money figures may have
become inflated, output of essen-
tial products has not grown in
proportion to the increase in the
population, whilst consumption
of v many things per head has
increased since 1939. We have
had little surplus, unconsumed
production, which is the basis of
capital.
And even our big export sur-
plus of 1950-51 and preceding
years, in terms of overseas prices,
by no means made up for the
shortage at home. Things then
in short supply in Australia —
such as coal, steel, cement, etc. —
we paid through the nose for
overseas ; so that our high prices
for wool were largely offset by
the high prices we had to pay
for essential raw and manufac-
tured products.
Money only becomes capital
when it represents surplus in-
come or savings. In recent years
Australia has spent too much and
saved too little. Money has cir-
culated rapidly, but mostly in
respect of consumer-spending.
And savings have quickly lost
value with the increase in prices
and living-costs.
On top of a current shortage
of production and savings there
is the waste of the war period to
be added: a period when capital
assets of all kinds deteriorated
and when few new ones were
established. This makes the
demand for capital now all the
greater.
So far as the high taxation
revenue of Governments is con-
cerned, only a comparatively
small proportion of this is used
for capital purposes, and of the
portion handed to the Cahill
Government in N. S. Wales it
was largely wasted in enterprises
that were never completed.
Government tax-revenue today
goes out principally in defence-
expenditure, war and repatriation
services, social-security payments
and public-service salaries. The
Socialist Governments of the war
and post-war eras have grafted
on to the economy the principle
of huge Budgets and high “Wel-
fare-State” expenditure.
It has been the experience all
over the world that “Welfare-
State” ideas add to consumption,
impede production and destroy
capital.
Investments Firm
Apart from the Placer
Development scrip - forgery
alarms there was little excitement
on the Stock Exchange last
Week. But maintenance ot
interim-div. rates continued to
be accepted as grounds for pay-
ing a little more for the stock
concerned,
The generally quiet market
was at the same time firm. The
lame ducks like Grocery and
General and J. E. Austin
remained depressed in Sydney,
but concerns with a good
dividend-record now showing a
yield of 6 p.c. or more were in
demand. Swans (an interim div.
shortly due), R. B. Davies.
“ Don't think you oughter buy 'em — they're too revealing."
Frederic Ash and John Mc-
Ilwraith all show a yield of
6 p.c. or more at present prices
and diw-rates, all are in the
plumbers’- ' and/or builders’-
supplies trades. They are good
stocks of their type. Danks
Holdings shows 6.4 p.c.
Demand for textile shares
remained patchy. Yarra Falls
has slipped back to 38s. 6d. after
nudging 40s. But cotton cos,
showed a slightly upward trend.
Broken Hill Prop, sold at
435. 6d. last week (up 3d.), which
was 6d. down on the recent
highest. The output of steel at
Newcastle and Wollongong
(N.S.W.) is now a record. With
wages tending to stabilise and
man-hour output to improve the
industry may now be doing
better. B.H.P. is finding it neces-
sary to seek overseas markets for
some of its pig-iron.
In the mining-share market
Australian Associated Oilfields’
scrip dropped to. below 45., after
reaching 6s v in the excitement
following announcement of an
“oil find” at Roma. It was no
gusher. Rye Park Scheelite Is.-
paids dropped back to Is. 2d.,
the lowest price since unofficial
trading started. Tungsten Con-
solidated was also weak. King
Island Scheelite announced that
its contract price for tungsten
ore was above the present
London market price, which has
dropped to 3305. sterling a unit.
But its scrip has weakened to
365. 6d. Its div. for 1952 was
6s. per ss. share.
Moina Tungsten-Tin
Considerable interest has been
shown in the shares of Moina
Tungsten Tin Syndicate for the
past year or two; there were
1266 such shares issued, and
they have been dealt in at £5O
and upwards in recent months.
The property is the old S. and
M. mine at Moina, 30 miles by
road from Devonport, Tasmania.
The leases cover 200 acres, and
another 250 acres has been
applied for. Hydroelectric power
is being brought to the mine.
The S. and M. lodes were
discovered in 1893. The Shep-
herd and Murphy Tin Mining
Co. was formed in Launceston
in 1895, but complexity of the
concentrates caused suspension
of operations. Then, in , 1906,
the S. and M. Syndicate (Lon-
don) took over, and in 1907 Dr.
C. Loftus-Hills evolved an elec-
tromagnetic process of separa-
tion ; a plant was erected in
Launceston to treat the concen-
trates. Between 1908 and 1918
good profits were made. A bush-
fire in 1918 destroyed all surface
equipment. A new mill was
erected and the separation-plant
transferred from Launceston ; in
1921 milling was resumed, but
only the ore mined during the
period of re-equipment was
treated. In 1922 metal prices
collapsed, and the co.’s London
directors ordered suspension of
activities. The mine has been
idle since, except for small pros-
pecting operations, the plant
being sold to Aberfoyle Tin.
During its active period the
show nroduced, from 75,000
tons of ore, 1300 tons of sale-
able concentrates, estimated by
the present syndicate to have a
value, at current metal prices, of
£1,300,000. The mine is now
being reopened in view of the
higher prices prevailing (for tin,
tungsten and bismuth), the im-
proved methods of mining and
extraction and the availability
of hydroelectricity. The ore
available is said to be a similar
proposition to that of Aberfoyle
Tin (also in northern Tasmania).
It is expected that the rate of
milling will rise to 12,000 tons
of ore within a short time, the
ultimate rate dependent on the
outcome of geological explora-
tion.
Of the seven lodes discovered
by the old co. only four (fissure-
fillings) were worked, and these
by adit. Recently three new
lodes have been discovered. All
ore-occurrences so far disclosed
-are in the southern limb of a
west-pitching anticline. The
northern limb is covered by sur-
face basalt and has never been
explored. It is thought unlikely
that the lode-formation is con-
fined only to the southern limb.
The old co. worked over a
vertical range of 300 ft. The
present concern expects values
to continue to 1000 ft. The
general width of the four lodes
worked is from 9 to 18 inches,
reaching 24in. as a usual maxi-
mum —wider in one lode.
Values are evenly distributed,
and the ore is free-milling.
Average recovery of concen-
trates by the old co. was 1.8 p.c.,
with a ratio of tin to wolfram
concentrates of two-to-one,
Moina Tungsten-Tin Mining
Co., N.L., intends to start off
with a paid capital of £250,000
(underwritten) in ss. shares.
There will be 810,100 shares
offered for cash (£202,525), while
the vendor syndicate will receive
£47,475 in 189,900 shares and
£8525 in cash. Cost of prepar-
ing and equipping the mine and
setting up plant and housing is
put at £135,000. After payment
of brokerage, preliminary exes.,
etc., working capital is estimated
at £47,950.
It is an interesting proposition,
not overloaded with vendors’
consideration, and those behind
it should know their business.
The price of tungsten has
dropped in recent months, but
tin has hardened a little.


established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON £
OSUIXXVAN
mam .
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS. EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : ; PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
TOBACCO
YACHT BRAND
Ready Rubbed Cigarette
Tobacco and Fine Cut
Special Latakia Pipe Mixture
in 2oz, packets at 28/6 per lb.
or
Fine Cut in 2oz. tins at
31 / 6d. per lb.
Please add postage with your
order .
No order accepted under lib.
weight. .
ASSOCIATED
TOBACCO DISTRIBUTORS,
Tribune Street, South Brisbane,
Queensland.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 18V8.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
C. O. GALE. STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. O. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
FAITH IN THE
FUTURE
II
“The Australian way of life . . my con-
versational companion was saying. The familiar
phrase came back in a moment of quiet thinking.
What, I was asking myself, is the Australian way
of life?
The .first time I could recall having heard
it used in public was by the late John Curtin.
Not, I suppose, that it was of his coining, but he
liked it and used it often.
We could all define broadly the Australian
manner of living. Our systems of working, our
Industry, our passion for sport and so on. We
might even draw our own picture in a few sharp
lines, for the view of the world as wed like it to
know us.
“Casual. Familiar. Disliking social distinc-
tions. Loyal to mates. Jealous of individual
rights.” That is the popular estimate of the
qualities of an average Australian.
But the Australian way of life means some-
thing more than these externals. It is insepar-
able from things of the spirit.
Here we are, a young nation with the fresh-
ness of youth. With all the impetuosities of
youth and some of the hesitations. We have it
within us to make very much more of our living
way than we have done.
Let us be frank with ourselves and admit
that our cultural pattern is still not formed but
forming. In literature, music, and art we are
coming along. In engineering and science we are
moving. The whole strong outline is there. The
detail has yet to be filled.
In that filling and colouring process, I be-
lieve the British and European migrants who are
coming among us will have a large share. Not
immediately, but in a few short assimilating
years. It was the American experience and it
will be ours.
How could it be otherwise, with hundreds
and thousands of people bringing the impact of
their own civilisations to bear on a sparse com-
munity?
In seven years the Australian Government
has spent more than £7O million in bringing
migrants to this country. The population has
moved up from 7,500,000 at the census of 1947 to
8,650,000 now. We are hoping it will increase
more rapidly still when the full migration plan
is resumed. And as it grows, so will the Aus-
tralian character develop and mature.
It is well for us to realise and welcome this
prospect, for the alternative to the quick
peopling of this continent is to lose Australia —
and the Australian way of life.
So we owe it to ourselves, as much as to the
folk we have invited to share this land with us,
to show a friendly interest in their welfare; to
understand their difficulties of custom and
language, and to make them feel they are not
foreigners but Australians like ourselves.
If I were asked. I’d say that would be one
of the best contributions the Australian of native
birth could make to his country’s advancement
to-day.
'—/V.
5V -==-_s^
HEM Ml
Bamboo Slide Rules
available in both conventional
Mannheim and Duplex types, com-
bined with Engine Divided Scales ot
the utmost precision and accuracy.
E. ISDAILE & SONS ltd.
42 Hunter St., Sydney. 8W8631.
HEMMI Slide Rules
are constructed from
laminated bamboo in
both stock and slide.
The wide range avail-
able ensures the selec-
tion of a rule for
every application.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
Building Activity
Because the building-trade is
never at its best when money is
tight. New Zealand has felt a
good deal of the draught that
has made things hard for every-
one: in the industry in Australia.
There’s a good deal of similarity
between trends on both sides of
the Tasman, with the difference
that Maoriland’s plight hasn’t
been nearly as bad as Australia’s.
In Maoriland, the general
opinion on looking back is that
1952 brought an end to the post-
war building boom. Tighter
credit was felt as keenly by
builders as by anyone, and the
effects were spread over a wide
sector of trade. For lack of cash
or mortgage money to finance
new houses, many Maorilanders
couldn’t go ahead with schemes,
and the yawning gap between
available funds and costs, which
remain highly inflated, is still a
big barrier in 1953. The days
when lending institutions wel-
comed borrowers with open
arms and loans flowed freely
seem a long way off now,
although they ended less than 18
months ago. Since the swing of
the pendulum borrowers have
been hunting from one lending
institution to another, often
hopelessly handicapped by the
difference between ideas of
values in the mortgage market
and the amounts that must be
found to buy expensive sites and
put homes on them.
A big part of the demand is
ineffective in these circumstances,
and is likely to remain so. Insti-
tutions like savings-banks, life-
offices and building-societies
have been taking their pick of
the borrowers who come along,
and have been setting a high
standard in their choice of pro-
perties on what is virtually a
risk-free basis. Savings-banks,
always among the leaders in
mortgage financing, have had to
cut down because of last year’s
fall in deposits, a drying-up
process which might go further
yet.
Maoriland’s interest-restriction
policy hasn’t helped, though
limiting the yield on savings to a
rate (2\ p.c. in the savings-banks)
which isn’t much better than
nominal and is liable to be can-
celled by inflation, which is still
taking toll of the value of M.L.’s
pound. The reluctance to adopt
a realistic attitude on interest-
rates has many influences, direct
and indirect, which all combine
to create an atmosphere of
increasing stalemate.
In the latter months of 1952,
local-government authorities re-
ported that applications for
house-permits were dropping
from one end of the country to
the other, and the building
industry was switching over to
commercial work, which was on
the up-grade. With prospective
mortgagees forced to scrape to-
gether at least £lOOO in cash—
apart from the price of the site —
before they can have much
chance of putting up a decent
home at ruling costs, it seems
that the Government’s owti-your-
own policy is running on the
rocks.
“Cheap” Money
Cheap money has been aban-
doned by one country after
another, always with more-or-
less reluctance and under heavy
pressure ; but New Zealand con-
tinues to hold out against the
trend, although the writing has
been on the wall for the past
couple of years.
This situation, supported by
tight controls, inside its rather
weakly insulated economy, is a
legacy from Socialism, and must
be remedied by a more realistic
interest policy before long, prob-
ably after Easter, when the next
national development loan —£20
million, at a guess—brings to
an end the public borrowing
holiday which dates back to
June, 1951.
If the Holland Government is
able to raise a long-term loan at
4 p.c. (1 p.c. above the rate for
many years past) it will be doing
well. N.Z. interest levels will be
still_well below Australian, the
market will be still lopsided, and
further steps will be needed to
reach equilibrium.
The Reserve Bank has been
calling for a change for so long
that it is hoarse, and the other
banks have been backing it up in
its efforts to end the stalemate,
but so far the Treasury has been
too strong. This, however, can-
not continue, as the Government
has no chance of raising money
below 4 p.c., which is, roughly,
the yield for short-term scrip on
the market, while long-term
stock is returning 2s. 6d. to 3s.
per cent. more.
Bankers have complete faith
in the potency of the interest
weapon to arrest the financial
drift if other policies, particu-
larly budget-control and tax-
relief, give the necessary support,
but they haven’t the decisive
voice they once had. Although
they’ve seen the danger of sink-
ing too much capital in
secondary production, at the
expense of primary, and in
luxury trade, their power to stop
it has been limited, as was seen
last year when the tighter-credit
policy didn’t prevent record
expansion in overdrafts and
straining of reserves almost to
the breaking - point. With
interest-rates pegged, rationing
of credit was largely ineffective.
Capital-issues control has similar
weakness, and all methods of
restricting credit, whether quali-
tative or quantitative, fail finally
as a substitute for interest
adjustment.
N.Z. must lift its rates to cut
out weak borrowers, attract more
lenders, revive incentives, stimu-
late production, give a spur to
thrift and tip the scales back.
Regardless of what cranks,
monetary reformers or diehard
Socialist defenders of cheap
money may say or think, there
is no other infallible cure.
Overseas Capital
Like Bretton Woods members,
New Zealand has always been
more interested in the World
Bank than in the International
Monetary Fund, and would have
joined up years ago but for
obligations to shoulder I.M.F.
commitments. If the London
Commonwealth Finance Cor-
poration opens up a by-pass
route to dollars N.Z. may yet
have access to hard currency
without paying tribute to the
fund or having its hands tied by
exchange restrictions, and should
have more than an even chance
of sharing in any dollar loan the
cprporation may raise as part of
its programme to promote
development of resources inside
the Commonwealth,
N.Z. is now waiting hopefully
to learn how good its chances
are. This attitude is in keeping
with its traditionally-strong pro-
sterling and anti-dollar sentiment,
which so far has panned out to
its advantage as prosperity has
kept in step with the growth in
its trade with the Old Country.
By retaining full unfettered
sovereignty over its currency it
was able, in August, 1948, to
restore its pound to sterling
parity by an operation which
was a well-kept secret and was
almost perfectly timed in the
light of subsequent events.
Largely because it was free to
decide in its own way, without
consulting anybody,' the change
was made with a minimum of
fuss. Today, with a sterling-
value pound, N.Z.’s great need
is capital, for national and indus-
trial projects, which it plans to
finance on a basis of exchange
stability for an extended time.
Its external payments are back to
balance after the struggle of the
past year, and funds in its
sterling pool have been building
up nicely since the new year
opened.
Prices for exported foodstuffs
seem to have reached a peak,
but in a world where the popu-
lation increase is at a rate of 20
million or more yearly no sharp
setback in food markets is to be
expected ; the long-term outlook
is for ever-growing demand and
increasing scarcity.
N.Z. is still in the stage of
vigorous expansion, with ample
scope yet for lifting its output
of primary products while the
emphasis is shifted more towards
manufacturing, with enterprises
allied to farming as first choice.
Altogether the country has
bright investment prospects,
which should appeal to dollar- as
well as sterling-lenders when the
capital market is more plentifully
supplied. The hardest time will
be the current decade.


Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)} Sir Lennon Raws,
C. 8.8.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young;
W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman);
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.C.P. London,
F.R.A.C.P.; J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead,
K.C.8., K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., 8.D.; Thomas B.
Heffer; W. Sydney Jones.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Protect your Estate from
“Human Element” Risks
The appointment of an individual as
Executor of your Will may be fraught with
risks. He may become ill, die, leave the
country, or be fully occupied with his own
affairs.
By appointing the Trustees Executors and
Agency Co. Ltd. you secure, at a fixed and
moderate cost, a permanent reliable
Executor.
Write or call for free booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd,
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £969,434 T
The WILD
CAT
COLUMN
Associated Pulp & Paper (Tas.)
(and Subsidiaries)
Towards
Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.*
£> £ £ £
1946.. 106,223 6 p.c. = 96,000 10,223 122,172
1947.. 100,813 6 „ „ 96,000 4,813 117,359
From tax provision, £13,000 .. .. 104,359
Added intangibles, £12,952 .. .. 117,311
Add forfeited share reserve, £1062 .. 116,249
1948.. 83,492 6 p.c. = 96,000 128,757
Intangibles reduced, £3OB .. .. 128,449
1949.. 94,537 6 p.c. = 96,000 129,912
Share premiums, £16,311 .. .. 113,601
Intangibles reduced, £289 .. . 118,312
1950.. 243,685 6 p.c. = 193,011 50,674 62.638
Special tax provision, £44,300 .. 106,988
To raw material res., £lO,OOO . . 116.938
Added intangibles, £6105 .. ~ 123,024
Added reserves, £5899 net . . . . 117,144
1951.. 243,882 6 p.c. = 194,021 49,861 67,283
Special tax provision, £64,900 . . 182,183
Added intangibles, £72,888 .. .. 296,071
Share premiums, £15,000 .. .. 190,071
Added reserves, £64,221 net .. 125,850
June, Reserves.
1952.. 522,823 7 p.c. = 303,521 219,302 93,452
Special tux provision, £83,412 .. 10,040
* After deducting intangibles (now £524,154) from
reserves, and excluding depreciation reserve, etc.
( £2,129,120).
It will be a couple of years, or there-
abouts, before this vigorous and success-
ful 16-year-old pioneer of Australian-
made fine-writing and -printing papers,
etc., and its four subsidiaries develop full
earning-capacity. Meanwhile the board
hopes to maintain the div. at last terra’s
increased rate of 7 p.c. During the year
1,922,281 new £1 shares were put out,
1,776,948 for cash, 115,333 paids to
Thomas Owen, Ltd., for assets acquired
and 30,000 paids to Australian Paper
Manufacturers, Ltd., in payment for a
coated-board business, which was passed
to a subsidiary. That lifted issued
capital at June 30, 1952, to £5,155,971, of
which £651,253 still to come in. But
it was not enough*. To help finance
continued growth, those on the register at
February 7 were offered a further
1,081,194 new £1 ords. at par, one for
five, payable 2s. 6d. March 6,7 s. 6d.
June 30 and 10s. September 30 next.
The issue, of which 50,000 are re-
served for employees and 39,372 for
shareholders in Zinc Investments without
renunciation rights, will lift paid capital
to £6,237,165, on which 7 p.c. will call
for £11,517 less profit than was claimed
last term.
Despite adverse trading and operating
factors, and the fact that a lot of money
was tied up by assets that hadn’t had an
opportunity to earn much, if anything,
the management was able to show an
increased rate of profit on expanded
capital, and to add a point to the div.,
making it 7 p.c. as against 6 p.c. for the
preceding 11 years. After setting aside
£365,325 (up £63,919) for depreciation
and £454,172 (up £282,455) for the tax-
gatherer, as well as deducting a loss of
£15,481 on account of a subsidiary, net
earnings of the group for the period (14
months) were put at £522,823. On an
annual basis the figure would be £488,119
(up £244,237), or 11.2 p.c. on average
capital as against 7.5 p.c. for the previous
year. That disregards £83,412 reserved
for deferred tax in respect of special
initial depreciation of plant, and sundry
reserve and other adjustments interlined
in the table. When the books closed
reserves, excluding tax provision, exceeded
intangibles (£524,154) by £10,040.
The profit came mainly from a record
30,000 tons of paper products turned out
from the parent’s own big mill at Burnie
(Tas.), where No. 4 machine started up
in March, 1952, but No. 2, a smaller unit,
had to shut down owing to power restric-
tions—it has started up again since the
close of accounts. The price of imported
pulp—it is mixed with the co.’s locally-
made eucalypt pulp—fell sharply, but old
and higher-priced stocks have been
“liquidated without serious loss.” The
price of imported papers fell, too, but the
co.’s selling-prices are still slightly below
landed-cost of comparable lines.
A start has been made with the new
15.000- mill, originally to
have been erected at Geelong (Vic.), but
now going up alongside the parent’s plant
at Burnie. It will turn out products
similar to the parent’s, and is expected
to cost £4 million or more.
Paper Makers Pty., the wholly-owned
subsidiary which works the near-by
184.000- forest from which the parent
draws pulpwood, has got its hardboard
mill into “successful and profitable opera-
tion at rated capacity of 20 million square
feet per annum.” Here the next step is
development of a large sawmilling pro-
ject.
Thomas Owen and Co. (Aust.) Pty., in
which A.P. and P. has bought the half-
interest (500,000 ords.) previously held by
Thomas Owen, Ltd. (London), thus mak-
ing it a wholly-owned subsidiary, has just
erected a mill at Burnie to make parch-
ment, greaseproof-paper and glassines.
The parchment machine is now in opera-
tion, and two others are being installed,
one of which is scheduled to start up
about June next. A.P. and P. has sub-
scribed for a further million £1 ords.
(now paid to 1 Is. each) in this offshoot
to finance plant-completion and provide
working capital.
Papyrus Pty., a small Sydney concern
in which a controlling interest was bought
a year or so ago, earned a modest profit,
but demand for the coated-board it pro-
duces has recently contracted.
Ballarat Paper Mills Pty., in which
British Coated Board Mills (London)
holds a one-third interest, got into pro-
duction a year or so ago, and netted
enough last term to wipe out the previous
year’s loss, pay its pref. div. and carry
forward a small sum. It turns out coated
papers, is meeting with severe competi-
tion from overseas, and has recently
operated at a loss. Tariff-protection has
been asked for.
Combined balance-sheet figures show
net additions of £3,575,274 to fixed assets,
mainly plant, £1,645,765 to stocks, etc.,
and £374,590 to book-debts:
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. £3,233,690 £3,233,690 £4,504,718
Outside interests .. 50,379 1,099,889
Debentures .. 1,500,000 2,000,000
Suspense account 1,055
Deprec’tion reserve 1,312,936 1,689,961 2,129,120
Overdraft .. 1,312,257 359,802 3,275,742
Creditors . . 186,256 211,392 445,930
Tax provision i .. 110,681 241,421 370,962
Final divs. .. 97,011 97,011 201,220
Freehold land, etc.* 390,708 476,560 543,983
Buildings and plant 8,726,196 4.407,482 '8,006,833
Stocks, etc. .. 678,860 961,444 2,362,870
Finished stocks . . 150,692 360,973 506,312
Debtors .. .. 472,748 576,650 951,240
Shareholdings .. 120,182 479,419 U. 388
Cash, etc. .. 632,583 1.6665846
Rights, preliminary
exes., etc. .. 445,161 461,266 524,154
♦ At cost.
The overdraft was increased by
£2,915,940, the amount coming to trade
creditors by £234,538, and an extra
£500,000 was raised on debentures, which
are costing only 4j p.c. The growth of
£1,049,010 in outside interests is largely
in connection with pref. capital in the
subsidiaries.
Allowing for brokerage, and after exer-
cising the rights to the new issue, the
new cost of parent’s £1 shares at 245. 9d.
is 245. 3d., thus giving the rights a
theoretical value of 4s. Id., and they
might become available at less. The
return at 245. 3d. is 5.7 p.c, on a 7 p.c.
div, basis, with long-term prospects. Net
tangible cover is a trifle over par.
Com’wealth Industrial Gases, Ltd.
(and Subsidiaries)
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. serves, serves.*
£ p.c. £ £ £
1948 .. 211,489 10 = 116,665 94,824 629.216
Unexplained addition special depre-
ciation, £78,186 .. .. 707,402
1949 .. 168,878 10 = 145,832 22,546 729,948
To capital assets reserve, £86,046 .. 815,994
Net unexplained addition, £21,027.. 837,021
To tax reserve, £67,523 . . . . 769,498
Added intangibles, £5396 .. .. 764,102
1950 .. 310,790 10 = )74,998t 185,792 899.894
Reserves capitalised, £486*105 .. 438,789
Capital profit, £3965 .. .. •• 417,754
1951 .. 239,939 8 = 204,814 35,125 452,879
Capital profit, £9435 .. .. •• 462,314
1952 .. 445,885 8 = 240,000 205,885 668,199
* fter deducting excess cost over net tangible
'able shares in subsidiaries on incorporation, now
eliminated from books and including Special reserve
for depreciation (now £235,738).
t Includes 5 p.c. on bonus scrip Issued Oct., 1950.
Chief factors - behind the spring of
£205,946 in last term’s net earnings were
increased output and sales from expanded
plant. But it is unlikely, the chairman
says, that profits in the “immediate”
future can be maintained at last term’s
level. The market, however, doesn’t
expect the 8 p.c. div. to be interfered
with, likes the way the business is shaping,
and prices the f.-p. £1 shares at 365. Bd,
(48s. 3d. a year ago) to give an immediate
return of 4.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. distribution.
So the investor who looks few 5.4 p.c. on
his money counts on the div. climbing
to 10 p.c. again, or other benefits. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is 245. sd.
It was in 1935 that the present holding
co., in which the British Oxygen Co.
(London) holds a controlling interest,
amalgamated the interests of a number of
widely-scattered concerns engaged in pro-
duction of oxygen, acetylene and other
industrial and medical gases, and ancillary
equipment, etc. Prime aims were elimina-
tion of waste in overlapping, economy in
buying and selling, and the hastening of
development, technical and otherwise, to
the benefit of both consumers and share-
holders. There are nine subsidiaries in
the group, of which six make industrial
gases, etc., one manufactures industrial-
and medical-gas equipment, and the other
two turn out electrodes and welding
appliances. The policy has been to
follow the market by setting-up new
factories as demand warranted in metro-
politan and country centres, the British
co. has been a pillar of strength, techni-
cally and financially, and the published
accounts are evidence of the manage-
ment’s success.
Paid capital, £850,000 at the start, had
grown to £3,000,000 at September 30,
1952, of which £486,105 is bonus-scrip,
handed out during the 1951 term. It was
accompanied by a cash-issue of 1,055,581
new £1 shares at par in order to lighten
the debt to the British co. and help
finance expansion. Following this twin
share-issue, a couple of points were
chipped off the div., reducing it to 8 p.c.,
which is equal to 9.5 p.c. on capital as
it now stands, less the bonus element just
mentioned.
Last term carbide and other raw
materials came forward in increased
volume, especially during the last half,
and, when the books dosed, the co. was
overstocked with imported lines, some of
which had been bought at higher than
then-current prices. At# the same time
there was a sharp rise in costs. It was
bigger turnover that did the trick. After
adjusting inventory values, and allowing
£246,305 for depreciation and £424,140
(up £117,316) for taxation, declared profit
was £445,885, equal to 14.8 p.c. on
average capital as against 9.5, 21.3, 11.5,
18.9 and 15.7 p.c. back to 1947. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves,
excluding tax provisions) the year’s profit
was 12.1 p.c. The div. was kept at 8 p.c.,
and, of the £205,885 that remained,
£75,000 was earmarked as a special stock
reserve and £lOO,OOO for replacement of
fixed assets.
During the year arrangements were
made for the issue of £1,000,000-worth of
unsecured registered notes,, one half at
4| p.c. and the other half at 4| p.c..
maturing between 1958 and 1962. When
the books closed £700,000 of the money
was in hand, and, on the basis of last
terra’s figures, it looks like earning more
than its keep. The next table shows
how it was used, together with an extra
£120,378 from the bank and an addi-
tional £451,443 from sundry creditors:
„ ~ . 1950. 1951. 1962.
Paid capital .. £1,458,814 £2,999,718 £3.000,000
Unsecured notes .. 700 qqq
Overdraft .. 183,871 304,*249
Creditors .. .. 1,079,539 315,852 767,295
Tax provision .. 272,906 449,846 642.473
Final dir 116,665 115,208 135,000
Freeholds, etc. .. 530,785 843,092 1,252 812
Plant, etc. .. 1,373,347 1,477,285 1.761,865
Investments ~ 34,426 34,426 36 624
Stocks .. .. 1,129,668 1,467,930 2,346,038
Book debts .. 551,899 693,486 828,565
Cash, etc. .. 207,193 1,150 1,312
Freeholds, etc., increased by £409,720,
plant, etc., by £274,580, stocks
by £878,108 and book-debts by
£135,079. The growth in fixed assets was
mainly on account of new oxygen and
acetylene plants at Sydney and Preston
(Vic.) and additions to the Sydney elec-
trode factory.
Turnover, which depends largely upon
the level of activity in the engineering
trades, fell away following the close of
accounts, but has strengthened a little
since.
R. Fowler, Ltd.
/ Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept. Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
30f £ £ £ £ £
1944.. 11,127 2800 7 p.c. = 10,500 74,814
From tax reserve, £2OOO .. .. 76,814
1945.. 13,617 2800 7 p.c. = 10,500 317 77,131
Profit, sale assets, £786 .. .. .. 77,917
1946.. 14,079 2800 7 p.c. = 10,500 779 78,696
From tax reserve, £2750 .. .. 81,446
8 p.c.
1947.. 16.529 3200 8 p.c. = 12,000 1329 82,775
1948.. 18,203 3200 8 „ ~ 12,000 3003 88,003
From tax reserve. £3500 .. .. 91,503
Profit, sale assets, £879 .. .. 92,382
1949.. 16,082 3200 8 p.c. = 12,000 882 93,264
Sundrv additions reserves, £7122 .. 100,386
1950.. 22,050 8200 8 p.c. = 12,000 6850 107,236
Proceeds revalued assets, .. 382,682
Excess depreciation ptov*n, £ISfyOOO.. 512,682
10 p.c.
1951.. 28,473 4000 10fcc. = 15,000 9473 522,165
To tax reserves £B6®o .. .. .. 513,565
Added reserves, £©76 . . . . . . 514,541
1952.. 21,749 4000 W p.c. = 15,000 2749 517,290
The co. is in better trim to stand up
to changes in the economic climate than
at any time since it took over the old-
established business of R. Fowler about
33 years ago. Still, it is in a highly-
competitive trade, in which aggregate
plant capacity is now in excess of national
demand. This means, among other
things, narrow profit-margins, and puts
the emphasis on plant efficiency and
quality of the output, two matters to
which the management has given a lot of
attention of recent years.
The board has long followed a cautious
policy, keeping the div. moderate and
making liberal allowances for deprecia-
tion and contingencies, as disclosure of
£130,000 excess provision for depreciation
in the 1951 term suggests. At the same
time some of the freeholds were inde-
pendently revalued at £275,446 more than
their book-value. The combined effect of
these book adjustments, which do not
affect actual earning-power, was to in-
crease the figures representing fixed assets
on the one hand and reserves on the
other by £405,446. Reserves now stand
at £517,290, and paid capital at £190,000,
of which £40,000 carries a cumulative
7 p.c. with the right to advance with
the ords. beyond that rate. The question
of an issue of bonus-scrip can be ruled
out on the grounds of imprudence at the
moment.
The co.’s principal works at Marrick-
ville (N.S.W.) make drainage and sewer-
age pipes, household and other earthen-
ware, floor and other tiles and insulators,
etc. The factories at Melbourne and
Brisbane, and a recently-established sub-
sidiary at Adelaide, concentrate mainly
on sanitary-ware and household crockery.
Another subsidiary, R. Fowler Vianini,
Ltd., has been manufacturing concrete
pipes at Marrickville since the 1920’5.
The slip of £6724 in last term’s net
earnings was due to the recession in the


100
YEARS
1852
i ‘1
1952
The dictates of elegance
and fashion have always
been reflected in the
beautiful designs of Lavina
Watches treasured by
generations of discrimin-
ating women as pieces
of exquisite personal
jewellery.
iAvm
WATCHES
Jewelled
Mosterpiece*
LW26.61
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
IHE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Fi/f-er
Cylinder
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., UMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
GUARD
PROTECTA
&tyi.
TILL
Suitable for every type of business It recorda
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Vistriouting Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book 00. (Aust.)
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Position Vacant
DIAMOND DRILLER with comprehensive
experience all classes of diamond drilling.
Must be capable of training other men
as drillers and dealing with any type of
efficient job that may arise. Must be able
to prepare clear and concise reports.
Apply by letter stating age, details of ex-
perience and availability to Q’land Con-
tractors Pty. Ltd., 447 Gregory Terrace,
Brisbane.
AC
prectous
drop
J
NT**V«v
&
SCOTCH WHISKY
BLACK & WHITE
CHOICE old scotch whisky
o.MKiinii
‘»T«UCNr«S MSTIHIRV WULAfN IPfTIiW SCOTIAN*
U
J j ■■; Aiv/ AD
BUCHANAN'S
«A
BLACK&WHITE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distilled and blended in Scotland
By Appointment to
the Late King George VI
ƒ
Scotch Whisky Distillers,
James Buchanan & Co. Lfel.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD., GLASGOW. SCOTLAND
if
I
The Metropolitan Deferred Assurance Plan enables you
to pay minimum premiums for your child, and on his
majority, he can carry on the policy ... an inducement
to thrift and a protection for his future years. Ask for
Table “Q.”
Today’s Protection—Tomorrow’s Security
Australian Metropolitan
Life Assurance Co. Ltd.
HUNTER & BUGH STREETS. SYDNEY.
Incorporated In Queensland. 1893,
building trade, restriction of
sewerage extensions by various
State authorities, and rising costs.
After allowing £24,169 (up
£4099) for depreciation and
something for taxation, the pro-
fit was £21,749, equal to 11.4
p.c. on capital as against 15, 11.6,
8.4, 9.6 and 8.7 p.c. back to 1947.
The subsidiaries operated at a
profit, of which no account was
taken in the parent’s books. So
the position is better than it
looks, though to what extent is
known only by those on the in-
side. The div., lifted from
8 p.c. in 1950 to 10 p.c. in 1951,
was maintained at the higher
rate, which can be taken as an
expression of the board’s confi-
dence in the outlook.
There is nothing to worry
about in the finances :
1950. 1951. 1952.
Paid capital .. 190,000 190,000 190,000
Creditors, etc.* 52,023 104,068 121,007
Due to subsid. 20,099 21,886 46,049
Final div. .. 7.600 11,400 11,400
Freehold, plant,
etc. . . 119,219 521,154 522,620
Shares subsid. 60,658 60,658 60,658
Stocks . . 75,032 80,196 139,837
Book debts . . 67,721 80,491 93,115
Adv. to subsid. 47,106 49,644 69,127
Cash, etc. .. 7,222 57,366 889
* Includes provision for taxation.
The year’s net addition to the
outside debt, which includes an
unspecified provision for tax-
ation, was £16,939. Stocks,
which appear at a figure “not
exceeding cost,” increased by
£59,641 and book - debts by
£12,624. The more-or-less liquid
surplus was £124,012, down
£6331.
Since the close of accounts
demand for the co.’s products
has strengthened a little on both
private and public account, costs
have lost most of their former
buoyancy, and import restric-
tions, presently to be eased on a
selective basis, have curbed over-
seas competition in some lines.
The market, which doesn’t ex-
pect the 10 p.c. div. to be dis-
turbed, prices the f.-p. 12s. shares
at 225. (30s. a year ago) to
return 5.4 p.c. Net tangible
cover (book-value) is 535. 4d.
Loloma (Fiji) Gold Mines
This co.’s leases adjoin those
of the Emperor’s on the Tavua
field, Fiji. For the year to June
30 last the co. mined 20,570 tons
(down 1400 tons), averaging
30.66dwt. (up 0.68dwt.), of which
15,828 tons (down 1889 tons)
were milled for an extra 2490 z.
gold but less silver:
Ore t Recovery s
Milled, Gold, Silver,
Tons. Oz. Oz.
1949 .. 20,353 29,736 9577
1950 22,496 21,381 6537
1951 .. 17,717 23,749 8855
1952 . . 15,828 24,039 7797
The recovery was 93 p.c., leav-
ing 2.lsdwt. in the residues.
Excluding development, taxation
and depreciation, cogts were
1575. 11.8 d. (up 335. 7.3 d.) per
ton of ore milled, the rise being
due partly to the salvaging
nature of sloping operations and
greater proportion of broken ore
stockpiled.
However, sale of gold on the
premium market helped earnings,
and profit from mining increased
by £9362:
Profit— 1951. 1952.
Mining .. .. £98,293 £107,655
Divs.—
Gt. Boulder .. 45,511 18,204
Other .. .. 40,315 68,233
Total profit .. £184,119 £189,092
The drop (£27,307) in divs.
received from Great Boulder
Prop, was largely offset by gains
(£22,918) in divs, from other
sources. Total profit (up £4973)
was 202,5 p.c. on the £93,375 of
paid capital, which is in 825,000
ss. shares of which 180,000 are
f.-p. and the balance paid to
Is. 6d. each. The div. was
dropped from 2s. 6d. to 2s. per
share, of which lOd. was tax-
free, being in respect of receipts
on holdings in King Island
Scheelite and Great Boulder.
Dividends paid to date total
£993,438, or 245. Id. per share.
Ore reserves at June 25 last
were proved 40,000 tons, averag-
ing 19dwt, probable 18,000 tons,
averaging lOdwt. A pleasing
development occurred on No. 4
level, where a drive passed
through 340 ft. of 20dwt. ore in
the Duchess flatmake orebody.
From the investor’s point of
view, however, the most encour-
aging development is the possible
extension of existing ore-bodies
suggested by churn-drill dis-
closures on the eastern boundary
of the property. Here 14,000
acres, covering three prospecting
areas, have been taken up by
Loloma and its two associated
cos. A preliminary geological
survey of the new ground is
under jvay, and a vigorous pro-
gramme of test-drilling is to
follow. Much will depend upon
the outcome.
At end October last the
market-value of the co.’s invest-
ment portfolio—mainly public-
co. shares, debentures and Gov-
ernment securities was
£1,057,935, or £55,635 more than
book-value. Current assets
totalled £200,330 and current
liabilities £142,685. At 28s. 6d.
a share (335. a year ago) the
market values the whole under-
taking at £1,175,625.
Hill 50 Gold Mine
One of the highlights of the
gold section of the sharemarket
has been the rocketing of Hill
50’s f.-p. 4s. shares from ss. to
30s. over the last few months.
High assay-values disclosed in
two diamond-drill holes put
down from the 820 ft. level to test
continuance of the lode below
that horizon were the cause. One
intersected the ore-body at 81ft.
and left it at 138 ft. below the
level, true width 68ft., with values
ranging from a trace to over
120dwt. The other, which started
from the same spot, entered the
ore-body at a vertical depth of
190 ft. below B2oft. level
and was still in pay ore at
406 ft. From 219 ft. to 306 ft.
assays averaged about 4ioz, gold
to the ton, and for the next 100 ft.
approximately lldwt. per ton.
A lot of development work will
need to be done before any re-
liable estimate can be made of
actual tonnage and average grade
of ore that will thus become
available.
The mine is at Mt. Magnet, on
the Murchison field (W.A.). The
mill shut down toward the end
of 1950, when available ore from
the old shaft cut out, and the new
shaft, down some 940 ft., wasn’t
ready for haulage. However,
crushing began again before
mid-1951. For the year to June
30 last the mill handled 52,427
short tons ore for ll,BBooz. fine
gold (av. 4|dwt.) and a profit of
£39,377, That was after allow-
ing £24,218 for development but
includes £15,461 earmarked for
depreciation. Working costs
were 565. lOd. a ton. Owing to
the improved outlook a div. of
9d. a share (£28,125 or 18| p.c.)
was paid on Nov, 26 last. Allow-
ing for this and other commit-
ments, the co. then had a cash
surplus of about £20,000, and
some £33,000 had been spent on
plant which is now handling
7000 tons ore a month, and that
rate of throughput is expected to
be maintained.
Ore reserves at June 30, 1952,
were put at 150,000, averaging
5.25dwt. above the 600 ft. level.
Between this and the 820 ft. level
insufficient work has been done
to make a reliable estimate of
pay ore available. However, the
diamond-drill has disclosed con-
tinuation of the rich ore met with
on the 820 ft. level to at least
900 ft., which will further lift both
the volume and average grade of
ore reserves. The policy followed
in most mines is to use the
richer portions as a sweetener
for marginal-grade stuff, and so
lengthen the profitable fife of
the property concerned.
The co. has £150,000 of capital
to feed in f.-p. 4s. shares. To
date it has paid divs. totalling
£296,643.
Raub Aust. G.M.
The mine and plant of this
Brisbane-controlled co. (paid
capital £200,000 in f.-p. ss.
shares) are at Pahang (Malaya).
Operations for the year to
March 31, 1952, resulted in a
loss of £A22,725, compared with
a profit of £4606 for the preced-
ing year. A drop in tonnage and
grade of ore milled were the
troubles, which were brought
about by terrorist activity and
the Government resettlement
programme. Here are through-
put and recovery figures:
Ore Head Re- Fine
Milled, Value, covered. Gold,
March, Tons. Dwt. Dwt. Oz.
1950.. 31,798 8.2 7.16 11,384.1
1951.. 52,382 7.2 6.33 16,581.5
1952.. 50,361 5.9 5.13 12,922.3
Average 1 amount realised per ton
of ore was £4.667, and all-in
costs, including £22,725 for de- '
preciation, were £5.188 (up 75.)
per ton.
In the four operating sections
of the mine measured ore re-
serves were put 50,235 tons.
averaging about s.4dwt. A lot
more similar-grade stuff, or a bit
better, is known to exist in the
three inoperative sections, which
cannot be opened-up at the
moment owing to the labor posi-
tion. The reported discovery of
scheelite in the mine a year or
so ago hasn’t amounted to
much —an average of 0.08 p.c.
WO3 in ore treated, with occa-
sional richer patches scattered
‘ throughout the lodes. It is un-
likely that the mine will become
a large producer of scheelite, but
some small benefit to net earn-
ings can be expected, since the
stuff can be recovered at little
or no extra cost.
Since the close of accounts the
labor position and mill through-
put have improved, but, with
costs as they are, shareholders’
prospects are not rosy.
At March 31, 1952, invest-
ments, cash and book-debts
totalled £99,625, there was
£54,521 coming to sundry credi-
tors, unclaimed divs. (Singapore
register) stood at £23,661, and
there was a rehabilitation loan
of £536,258. The co.’s war-
damage claim has been assessed
(amount unstated), and the co.
has appealed agamst the amount
allowed in respect of some
major items. .
The scrip, which touched 13s.
7d. in 1952, recently sold at ss.
pi oneer Scheehte, N.L.,
Jiatehes Creek, is the only one
a cro p jq.T. scheehte cos.
to have settled down to anything
re gui ar quantity production,
Output of concentrates has been
s t e pped-up from 3y tons in Oct.
last to i 0 tons f or j an > 1953,
anc j j s now steady at about half-
a_ton per working day. And
there has been a steady improve-
ment in the grade, too Plant is
working well, and there is no
shortage of water. A pleasing
development has been the cutting
G f No.' 12 lode—one of the
northern series not previously
tapped—on both bottom (200 ft.)
an d top (80ft.) levels. The co.’s
achievements to date are due
largely to the efforts of
managing-director E. Broughton
Jensen. Because of the steady
fall in the price of wolfram, the
co.’s f.-p. ss. shares have eased
from 7s. to 4s. 6d. in the market
over the last couple of months.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
For the • opening night of the Jessie
Matthews play, “Larger Than Life,”
people made quite a good effort at
glamor, with about 75 p.c. in evening-
dress. Guests-of-honor were the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress, Mr. and Mrs.
P. D. Hills, the Lady 'Mayoress wearing
black finely patterned in pink. Mrs.
Sylvia Quist’s ballerina of white Swiss
voile, satin-striped and printed with tiny
rosebuds, was well worth watching. She
was with Miss Margaret Lord, in black
with a short striped skirt. Mrs. Ernest
Watt was another wearer of the ballerina
—hers was organdie with a large pale-
grey pattern. Mrs. C. R. McKerihan,
who had her daughter Del with her, wore
an exquisite dress of black lace over pale-
blue. The Countess of Effingham sat in
a box wearing black with one red car-
nation in her hair. Mrs. Gordon John-
stone’s cherry crepe sparkled with
diamente. Lady Moxham wore lipstick-
red patterned in black and gold.
☆ ☆ ☆
The audience at the opening night of
“White Horse Inn,” though numerous,
could not be called magnificent. Only a
handful of people (all assiduous first-
nighters) “dressed.” Mrs. E. Lashmar’s
cream satin with its fichu collar was
notable. Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere, who
had worn a long slim dress appliqued
with' cream lace to “Larger Than Life” the
night before, for “White Horse Inn”
chose a short navy taffeta patterned with
tiny gold spots and worn with a little
flared cape. Mrs. Tom Bateman came
with her sister, Mrs. Michael Fitzpatrick.
One of the few representatives of the
Younger Set was Margaret Gustafson,
who wore a cocktail dress of rose-colored
organza. The absence of Max Oldaker
from the cast was disappointing, for John
Casson is not really a matinee-idol type.
However, a special little award should go
to Marie Ryan and Miriam Lester for
the way they carried the duets, and to
Charles Norman, whose vitality sustained
that worried first act.
☆ ☆ ☆
Masks and headdresses are to be
essential for dancers at this year’s Opera
Ball, which has now become the “Venetian
Masque Ball” presented by the National
Opera, and costume may also be worn
by those who have a taste for it. The
committee for this ball, which is to be
held at the Town Hall on April 17, is
rapidly expanding. New members in-
clude Mrs. Hector Livingston, Mrs. Alan
Copeland, Mrs. Ernest Watt, Mrs. John
Bovill, Mrs. Anthony Hordern, Mrs. Bill
Adams and Mrs. O. Hilbert.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was amusing to notice at the opening
of the Archibald Rejects Exhibition how
full of goodwill everyone was to the
exhibitors and how anxious to find some-
thing to praise in all the portraits—that
one had J charm, this one vitality; most
were interesting (useful word at an art
show). Actually there weren’t more than
about six portraits that were anything
but appalling. One woman did say
“Really, you couldn’t do worse yourself.”
Lady Plowman, who organised the exhibi-
tion on behalf of the St. John Ambulance,
has done a service to Sydney people in
making it possible for them to judge
these pictures for themselves. She took
“a very poor view,” she said, of the
students’ demonstration during the open-
ing. She thought it most ill-timed at an
exhibition in aid of a charity and also
most unintelligent. Indeed, if the students
studied more and demonstrated less, we
might get a higher standard of portrait-
painting all round.
☆ ☆ ☆
The buffet-tea given by Dr. and Mrs.
I. S. Knossew at their Killara home on
Saturday in aid of the Royal South
Sydney Hospital ball was really a model
of good organisation. About 70 people
went along to enjoy the open-air party
and the buffet, which was served with a
minimum of fuss. Dr. and Mrs. C. M.
Guiney helped receive the guests, among
whom were Dr. and Mrs. F. Coyne,
Mr. and Mrs. C. Dransfield, Dr.
and Mrs. A. Goldstein, Dr. and
Mrs. P. Hunt, Dr. and Mrs. J. Steigrad,
Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Macfarlan, Dr. and
Mrs. J. Markell, Dr. and Mrs. P. Higgin.
Visitors from Bourke, Mr. and Mrs. H.
Proctor-Brown and Miss Proctor-Brown,
were present. Also Mr. and Mrs. George
Knight, of Kenilworth, Bourke, and
Killara.
☆ ☆ ☆
Sydney Water Board recently received
this request:. “I wish your permission to
run my waistline to the kitchen-sink
through the laundry, surrounded by six
inches of concrete.” It is reported that
the work will be carried out under the
supervision of a House Services Inspector.
A new star in the Australian literary
firmament likely to shine very brightly in
the future is Mrs. Helen Fowler, whose
first novel, “The Shades Will Not Vanish,’’
published by Angus and Robertson, has
met with tremendous success in America:
“When you get to the American market,’’
said Mrs. Fowler, “nothing is too vast.
The Literary Guild of America, which
chose my book for its list, has one mil-
lion members and has guaranteed me a
minimum of twenty thousand dollars.
William Morrow and Company are to
publish it in America under the name
'The Intruder,’ and will sell on the open
market. 'The Reader’s Digest' is to
include it in their summer issue of Con-
densed Books and has also guaranteed
twenty thousand dollars as a minimum
payment. I am quite bewildered by it all,”
she added .
Mrs. Fowler, who is soft-voiced, tiny
and gentle in manner, was brought up in
Katoomba, where she says the cold got
into her bones so thoroughly that the
thawing-out process hasn’t finished yet
(on one of Sydney’s most humid days
last week she was carrying a woollen
coat). After graduating in Arts from
Sydney University she joined the Educa-
tion Department and married a Sydney
doctor, and although she still looks like
a girl she has been married 20 years.
Her novel was written, she says, to prove
to herself that she could write a book
with a well-defined plot and characters,
“the kind that sells,” as a publisher once
told her; but, having written it, she was
satisfied and did not try to get it published.
It was a woman friend who took it to
Angus and Robertson’s almost against
Mrs. Fowler’s wishes. She feels very
differently about her second book, which
is now in the hands of the publisher.
Called Green Leaves and Laughter, it is
a comedy dealing with Australian family
life. “I loved writing it,” she said.
“And I think—I hope—it’s good.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Don’t complain next time a flock of
sheep hold your car up for a few minutes
—it's much more trying in South Africa.
Mr. John Hallstrom, who, during the
week, showed the women members of the
American Club some beautiful colored
pictures of a safari in Africa, included
one where a pride of lions were seen
padding along and across the road, with
that implacably bad-tempered look lions
have, while a trail of motor-cars crawled
along behind. Mr. Hallstrom said that
these lions held up the traffic for three
days! They didn’t attempt to attack,
but they seemed to .get annoyed when
anyone tried to speed up, so the motorists
went quietly.
☆ ☆ ☆
Next Friday (13th) is to see the
Valentine’s Day Ball at the Trocadero,
when 25 Sydney models will parade in
bathing costume as contestants in the
“Miss American Valentine” quest, staged
by the American Ex-Servicemen’s
Memorial Club. The chief purpose of
this ball is to enable Americans in Sydney
and those who helped the American
forces during the war to renew their
war-time friendships.
☆ * *
As a counter-attraction to the elections,
or perhaps as a relief from them, there
is to be a fete in the grounds of Admiralty
House on Saturday, organised by and in
aid of the N.S.W. College of Nursing.
Mrs. Eric Harrison will open the fete,
which is called St, Valentine’s Fair, at
2 p.m,
MELBCUKNC
Sir Edmund and Lady Herring, who
leave for England on February 17, were
guests-of-honor at a late-afternoon recep-
tion given by the Council of British
Empire Societies at the Victoria League
Club rooms. Societies represented were
Royal, Empire Society, Victoria League,
Overseas League, Royal Society of St.
George, Royal Caledonian Society,
Cambrian Society, Empire Youth Coun-
cil and Empire Day Movement. Sir
Edmund is chairman of the Empire Youth
Council and Lady Herring vice-president
of the Victoria League, Chairman of the
council, Mr. A. J. Collocott, and his wife
received the 40 guests, Mrs. Collocott
wearing a red-and-white-patterned silk
frock and a wide-brimmed red straw hat.
Lady Herring’s junior-blue self-patterned
faille frock was worn with a matching
straw hat. Among the guests were Sir
George Jones, Sir Norman Mighell,
Major-Gen. Kingsley Norris, Mrs.
Henry Maudsley, Mrs. Claude Couchman
and Miss B. Braithwaite.
Miss Elvie Quigley, M.8.E., of Laun-
ceston, Tasmania, received her honor for
services rendered to the community as
vice-chairman of Launceston General
Hospital. She is also interested in other
branches of social work. As there is no
vice-regal residence in Launceston the
Brisbane Hotel, over which this lady pre-
sides, is the unofficial residence of the
island’s Governor when he visits the
northern city. The cultural side of Miss
Quigley’s life is expressed in her lovely
apartment in the family home, which over-
looks Mount Barrow, for it is filled with
wonderful antique furniture. Miss
Quigley is a keen racegoer and is also
president of the Ladies’ Associates of the
Launceston Golf Club.
For thd“ opening night of “Folies
Bergere” at the Tivoli, the short evening-
frock worn with a matching coat was very
popular, and. among those who chose this
combination was Mrs. Athol Shmith,
whose coat and matching ballerina were
in dull-gold brocade. The unusual coat
had a very full back, and the deep shawl
collar dropped low across the shoulders.
Mrs. Walter Ebstein’s graceful gown was
of oyster satin brocade, her coat was of
emerald satin. Mrs. Royden Honeyman
sparkled in a short full frock of black-
and-silver metal thread. Mrs. Con
Curtain wore with her white waffle pique
frock an emerald cotton stole edged with
white fringe. Noteworthy were the
mignonette-green paper-shantung frock
worn by Mrs. Norman Lynch, and Mrs.
A. G. Silk’s short, swirling frock of black
chiffon and lace.
Mrs. Norman Bennett covered her
short black chiffon frock with a sequin-
splashed matching cape. Mrs. Frank
Martin’s black gown was draped on
Grecian lines. Mrs. Garnet Carroll’s
black satin frock featured a quilted skirt,
whilst pale-pink edged the matching
jacket. Mrs. Ken Luke’s ensemble was
of junior-blue lace and tulle. White
broderie Anglaise with an emerald sash
was worn by Mrs. Tony Lewis.
☆ ☆ ☆
Fabrics manufactured and styled in
Australia can hold their own with any
produced anywhere, says H. Foletta, of
Prestige, Ltd., and after seeing the parade
of .all-occasion garments, samples of the
trousseau being donated by Maurice C.
Dowd for presentation to the winner of
the Queen of the Southern Beaches Con-
test which will be decided at Black Rock
on March 28, one could find it easy to
believe this. The winner, who will go
overseas on April 15, will be all-Australian
clad from head to foot.
☆ ☆ ☆
There was no lack of gaiety at the
War Nurses’ Memorial Centre in St.
Kilda-road when members of the 2/7
Australian Hospital Association met for
a dinner-party. The gucst-of-honor was
Miss Elizabeth Johns, former matron of
the 2/7th Hospital, which, during the
war years, saw splendid service abroad
and at home. Miss Johns, who will
marry John Shippen at St. Mary’s Church,
Caulfield, on February 21, has, since be-
ing demobbed from the Army, been
matron of the Eye and Ear Hospital.
She wore a green-and-white-spotted silk
frock with a red hat and matching red
accessories. The token of esteem
presented was a crystal jug and matching
goblets. Receiving the guests were the
president of the association, Lyle Pater-
son, and his wife, assisted by vice-
presidents Miss Marjorie Brooke, J.
Towers and G. Broadbent.
☆ ☆ ☆
Despite preparations for her trip over-
seas with her husband, who is the Vice-
Chancellor of the University, Mrs. G. W.
Paton is still able to devote time to
forthcoming functions in aid of Inter-
national House. Last week Mrs. Paton
presided over a meeting of those interested
in plans for the house, which will pro-
vide living-quarters for overseas and
country ’varsity students. Lady Grim-
wade was there, cool in dove-grey
shantung which had a drawn-thread
pattern. Mrs. Paton’s silks were floral.
Mrs. W. H. Sloan, hon. organiser of the
Market Fair being arranged for Inter-
national House, wore a grey-and-white
cotton frock with white accessories. Mrs.
Arthur Blakeborough’s grey nylon seer-
sucker frock was contrasted with a small
black straw boater.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Market Fair is on May 1 and 2,
but first function for the appeal will b<s
the recital given by pianist Vera Brad-
ford in the Town Hall, on February 22.
At the meeting, in their national costumes,
were Eva Ruff, from the Black Forest,
and Claire Weser, from Innsbruck. Pro-
gramme-sellers and ushers will thus be
dressed at Vera’s recital.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dr. Leland Wang, a Chinese missionary
now visiting this city, was guest-of-honor
at a late-afternoon reception given by
Chinese Consul T. W. Liu and Madame
Liu. Pale-pink carnations in green bowls
and tall pink gladioli decorated the recep-
tion-rooms of their Balwyn home, and
host and hostess were assisted by their
son Alec in receiving the guests. Madame
Liu’s national costume of dull-black
embossed satin was topped with a pale-
gold jacket embroidered in varied colors.
Among the 100 guests were Chinese
nationals and members of the Consular
Corps, Sir Clifden Eager and Lady Eager,
Vice-Admiral Sir John Collins, Lieut-
General and Mrs. S. F, Rowell, Air-
Marshal Sir George Jones and Lady Jones,
and Minister for Immigration, Harold
Holt. Among Americans present were
U.S. Consul-General Henry Stebbins and
Mrs. Stebbins, Commander and Mrs.
Robert Macklin, Col. J. Middleton and
his wife, and T- W. Thoman and his wife.
☆ ☆ *
An overcast sky and cool breeze made
conditions delightful for racing at Flem-
ington. The Governor was there with
Lady Brooks, whose simple frock ot
powder-blue had for company a tiny white
straw bonnet. Mrs. R. H. Spraggeits
navy frock had touches of white Swiss
embroidery at the collar and edge o
the short sleeves ; her cloche was of white
straw. Mrs. A, G. Hunter topped hei
black suit with a royal-blue velour hat.
Wife of the Premier, Mrs. John Cam,
wore with her black suit a black velve
hat studded with large black beads an
finished with a long tassel. Garda
Tinker’s frock of tangerine silk had a
white polka-dot pattern. With her mole-
grey jacket-suit Jan Etherton wore a
small white melusine hat.


Missing Friend
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
the next-of-kin of JACK GARNETT, son
of WILLIAM and MARY GARNETT, nee
DWYER, bom about the year 1895,
should immediately notify the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, of 412 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne. _
Have you got
good taste ?
BEICS
miiMiiiuuniv "■“"SS
imuniinj i«mn * '“in
mminro wv
DISTILLERS ««« scot
(
V tlA h»
V.. PRODUCT .
"wwimu.
We are not talking about
books or plays or clothes.
We mean ‘Good taste’ In
the strict sense.
When you drink whisky,
for example, do you really
taste it critically? It’s
always agreeable to be
offered Scotch Whisky.
But it’s memorable when
you’re offered Bell’s Old
Scotch Whisky. Note that
name—Beil’s Old Scotch
Whisky. Established in 1825.
We’d like you to try Bell’s
Whisky. It brings to mind
the echo of Scottish
breezes, the burbling of |
Scottish burns, the ripple
of ripe barley fields, and
has that slight suggestion
that hints at Highland
peat and heather.
If you can sense the subtle
artistry of Bell’s Old Scotch
Whisky—truly you can call
yourself a connoisseur.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
o&/-
DISTILLERS perth SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Beethoven Festival
The first concert of the
A.B.C.’s Summer Festival at
Sydney Con. contained two of
the master’s greatest works: the
Fifth Symphony and the Violin
Concerto,
Tiber Paul, the conductor,
made it apparent from the open-
ing measures of the symphony
that flamboyancy was to have no
place in the performance. Here
was a work cast in the most
classical of moulds, the most
famous and popular example of
the form extant; it demanded no
less than an exact and classical
interpretation, and Paul was there
to give it just that.
He gave it a most alert reading
from memory, and if on
occasions the climax-building fell
slightly behind when the strong
upward surge should have been
maintained it was certainly not
through lack of vigorous adjura-
tion to his forces by the con-
ductor. He showed, too, one
virtue which some conductors of
greater eminence too often fail to
demonstrate a mastery of
pianissimo. This was most
notable in the vital final stages
of the Trio of the Scherzo,, when
the triple beat, starting softly in
the woodwinds, is transferred to
the upward-sweeping strings.
Here every instrument was down
almost to a whisper, thus gain-
ing, as Beethoven intended,
greater dramatic emphasis for
the imminent entry of the joy-
ously triumphant march which
opens the final allegro.
Ernest Llewellyn was soloist in
the D Major Violin Concerto.
Of all the literature in this form,
this work (coupled inevitably
with the Brahms) is the most
intensely masculine; which
makes it the severest test for the
soloist, who is handling a high-
voiced, essentially feminine
instrument.
Llewellyn’s style, his forceful-
ness without the use of
meretricious showiness, suited
the concerto well. At first his
tone when soaring into the higher
reaches was not his best; the
filigree passage-work lacked his
usual clean-cut incisiveness.
Then, almost suddenly, shortly
before the cadenza, he hit top
form, and from then on his work
gained in authority and stature.
With unhurried ease he swept
through the unaccompanied
section, passing on to conjure a
beautiful serenity in the
larghetto. Again Mr. Paul held
his orchestra well in check to
keep a happy balance between
it and the solo instrument.
* * * «
“Larger Than Life”
Oddly, everyone and every-
thing seem slightly smaller than
life in this comedy—an adapta-
tion by Guy Bolton of
Maugham’s Theatre —at Sydney
Tiv., and that, of course, on the
stage, is almost fatal.
Jessie Matthews, as the ageing
actress who tries to discount her
husband’s taunt about her
vanishing sex-appeal, flutters
about like a moth in a box until
one feels she should be released
to fields more suited to her pert,
saucy charm; Leonard Bullen,
as the husband who also dallies
in other pastures, releases a
pleasant kind of musicomedy
amiability; and John Edmund,
as the young man on whom Miss
Matthews elects to test her ■
charms, brings a watery brand
of comedy to the role.
It is all mildly effective in a
lightly amusing way, blit is also a
long way from what it might be
—where, for instance, are the
detachment, the suave cynicism,
the appreciation of character and
the polish—qualities essential to
staged Maugham, and those
which O. D. Bisset, the late
Jum Pendleton and Eleanor
Marina caught so perfectly in
their performance of “The
Circle” a while ago?
Bolton’s adaptation is no
doubt responsible to some, extent,
but not much. There is plenty
of room in the piece for witty,
cynical observation of slightly
decadent people, for glass-like
polish and for brisk characterisa-
tion ; and the cheerful, almost
musiepmedy approach of Miss
Matthews and the rest is a poor
substitute. Likewise, small voices
giving a vaudeville-like emphasis
to pointed lines are a poor sub--
situte for full and polished
delivery—and one under which
the point and edge of most of
the wit are blunted down to the
level of bright repartee.
None of which is to say that
Miss Matthews hasn’t a charm
all of her own which she
with considerable effect
on the audience —so much so,
in fact, that one can be certain
it would be a pleasure to see her
in almost anything except one of
Maugham’s glassy aquariums.
* * * *
“White Horse Inn”
The opening night of “White
Horse Inn” at Sydney Empire
was something of a catastrophe,
with the leading man, Maxwell
Oldaker, out of action and with
his stand-in unavailable. The
producer, John Casson, sub-
stituted for both of them, and
probably had the most uncom-
fortable evening of everyone—
he needed a script to guide him
a lot of the way, and, apparently
unable to sing, contented himself
with a kind of rhythmic intona-
tion of his lines, what time his
opposite-number, Marie Ryan,
filled in for him very gallantly
and capably by singing both his
part and hers in the duets.
However, most of the audience
seemed to enjoy Mr. Casson’s
predicament, regarding it as a
little extra comedy for their
money. They also got, of course,
Charles Norman in very good
form as Leopold, Miriam Lester,
opposite him, as the proprietress
of the venerable pub, Bobby
Mack as old Ebenezer Ginkle,
and Betty Sparks and Fred
Murray tossing in with some
bright nonsense.
The show is well mounted, in
the Firm’s best traditions, and
the choruses and ballets are also
well up to the same standards.
* * * ♦
National Ballet
At Melbourne Princess the
National Theatre Coronation
Arts Festival has gone into
operation with a ballet season.
Opera and drama are to follow.
Although the ballets are much
the same, the operations this year
seem more relaxed than last year.
What is relaxation? A stone-
carver takes years and years to
learn to strike the chisel with
the hammer, and when he has
learnt it, he is relaxed in rela-
tion to the chisel. Relaxation is
just that unconscious gesture,
and, in the case of ballet, which
is a sort of language, the dancer
has to be relaxed to far more
tools than the stone-carver.
In “Caprice,” an abstract
ballet in four movements to the
music of Prokofieff (choreo-
graphy by Valrene Tweedie, who
also danced it), some succeeded
and some didn’t Valrene
Tweedie and Raymond Trickett
danced with some abandon,
hut, although they made no glar-
ing mistakes, the rest looked as
if they were trying to pass an
examination.
“Camaval” was more un-
buttoned. The ballet which
Michael Fokine wrote to
Schumann’s piano pieces,
orchestrated by Verdon Williams,
was danced in the highest spirits.
With their whirlwind perform-
ances in the Pas de Trois against
a bright blue backcloth, Marion
Ward, Gloria May and Phyllis
Miller almost stole the show
from Strelsa Hecklemann and
Raymond Trickett. “Pas de
Quatre” and “Aurora’s Wedding”
were* repeated. /
The fine musical sense and
enthusiasm of conductor Verdon
Williams was an important
ingredient of the evening. The
Victorian Symphony Orchestra
was there with 64 players.
Artbursts
Archibald Rejects
The rejected entries for the
Archibald and Wynne prizes are
crowded into the Education
Department Galleries, Sydney,
and, after a week or so of stunts
and mild insanity when the
Sydney daily Press gave more
space to the rejects than to the
entries accepted for exhibition in
the National Gallery, it remains
unsurprising to see the verdict of
the trustees vindicated.
There are no portraits or
Australian landscape - paintings
among the rejects which suggest
they should have replaced any
of the acceptances at the gallery.
There are some scampering
evidences of talent here and
there, some capable painting of
mediocre vision, some highly
stylised stuff which admits
neither to talent nor lack of it,
and —more than anything else—
a preponderance of painting that
is bad or amateurish, or both.
One thing that emerges from
the show, in fact, is the inanity
of the claim that the trustees, by
their selections, are exercising
some sort of repression on art.
The only repressions in evidence
among the rejects are those im-
posed by the artists by harnessing
themselves to some fancy style
or the other, or by trying to
paint masterpieces before they
can paint.
The exhibition is arranged
rather like a joyous bunrush,
with paintings almost fighting
for space on the wall. Distinc-
tions are rather difficult in
such circumstances, but portraits
by Paul Haefliger and Jean
Bellette are more ambitious
misfires than the average, and
a little green-grey landscape
by Molly Johnson, even if
it hasn’t the qualities to
justify its inclusion among the
Wynne Prize exhibits, is not
jyithout a slight, fresh charm.
*** * *
Show of Sixes
The Show of Sixes at the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, con-
sists of 44 paintings offered at
six guineas a pop. Some of them
seem rather slight, even at that
price, but “Evening, Chippen-
dale,” a small golden-brownish
landscape by Arthur Evan Read
looks a nice acquisition for
someone, and George Law-
rence’s “North Ryde,” con-
densed as it is into richness, is
also a good sample of that
artist’s work.
Douglas Annand has almost
contrived to get a note of drama
into a still-life study of mush-
rooms, toadstools or some
similar fungi on a log; Jack
Carrington Smith has a small
Whistlerish nocturne in “Night
on the Derwent,” Grace
Cossington Smith brings off
another of her flower studies in
“Gum Blossoms in a Jug,”
Roland Wakelin’s “Sketch at
Heidelberg” has a touch of
warmth in it, Donald Friend’s
“The Old Shop” looks like a
decorative memory and there is
a slight—too slight —grace about
Jocelyn Rickard’s “The Butter-
fly Catchers.”
Talkies
“Room For One More”
In its portrayals of American
family life Hollywood producers,
in contradistinction to their
English counterparts, have too
often been guilty of using a dis-
torted sentimentality. The charge
cannot be sustained against the
makers of this heart-warming
and intensely human comedy.
It is the simple story of a
generous-hearted woman, the
mother of three young children,
who decides to adopt from an
orphanage an unwanted girl—a
cross-grained “problem”-child at
that. Her humorous-minded,
easygoing husband concurs, and,
after many threatened disasters
in the shoals of misunder-
standing, the enlarged family
craft reaches placid waters. The
next result of her impulsive urge
becomes a tough proposition:
she adopts a 12-year-old crippled
boy whose mental outlook has
become warped. Full of patience
and quiet serenity, she sets to
work on him, aided unobtru-
sively by her husband ; and again
she makes the grade and gives
happiness to a child whose future
before had been bleak.
The ingredients have been
handled by both director and
principals (Cary Grant and Betsy
Drake) with keen insight into the
child mind. The family scenes
are fresh and appealing, and
humor and pathos are nicely
blended. And through it all
moves a large, unbeautiful dog—
another adoption happily
wolfing everything edible he
sights—except, of course, the
children. At Sydney Regent,
* * • *
“Lady Godiva Rides Again”’
The righteous yonng man
addicted to taking his elderly
maiden aunt to the films need
not go past Sydney Embassy,
The doings inside will not shock
him. He will certainly see the
storied lady of Coventry ride
past on a white horse. There
will he see, not deserted streets
and a Peeping Tom risking his
eyesight, but a laughing mob.
And the lady will momentarily
part the impenetrably thick hir-
sute covering that screens her
from head to toe to take one
startled look.
It is a film full of clever and
subtle satire of cherished institu-
tions, with the most heavily-
barbed shafts aimed at beauty
contests. There is some
penetrating truth, too, in this
story of the pretty but “dumb”
waitress who, by a switch in
swimsuits, accidentally wins a
contest that had been “rigged.”
Much irreverential fun is had
at the expense of the advertis-
ing fiends who endeavor to
squeeze the winner, figuratively
and literally, and of the insuffer-
ably vain matinee-idol (Dennis
Price) who condescends to help
judge the beauty contest and
tries to make it a conquest. And
there is one priceless slap at the
academy mistress who teaches
aspiring film-stars how to speak.
Stanley Holloway, as the father
who runs a small combined
grocery and newsagency and who
interrupts his life’s work only to
indulge in heavy sarcasm at the
expense of the film-and-
beauty business, etches in a neat
piece of characterisation. Alis-
tair Sim makes an all-to-brief
appearance as a broke but gently
philosophic film-producer, and
Paulirle Stroud is the girl whose
flopped film-career forces her
down to the Lady Godiva role.


THE SMARTEST HAT
at the Keenest Price!
Before you buy your new hat,
think of these points . . .
Akubra’s shapes and shades
are right up to the minute—
as smart as any you would see
in London or New York.
An Akubra will cost you
much less than an imported
hat.
Quality, price, appearance—
\ Akubra scores on all three
points.
See the fine new range of
Akubra Imperial Quality
Hats.
AKUBRA
AUSTRALIA’S FAVOURITE HAT
A 3-82
AMPLITE
HOME
LIGHTING
PLANTS
f
Brilliant light at the press of a button
with AMPLITE Home Lighting Units.
12 Volt 300 Watt, 32 Volt 400 Watt,
£89/10/0 ; 32 Volt 750 Watt, £142/10/0
(A'ASIA) ampuok PTY. LTD.
36-40 PARRAMATTA ROAD, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Sheep-Stealers
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
CLANCY, the dashing
young field-work officer,
went squelching and creak-
ing past on Nigger, moisjt
clods flying from the tall, rusty-
black gelding’s hoofs, to look at
something or other among the
half-dozen pocket-handkerchief
paddocks that lay on the far side
of the dusty western road. What-
ever it was, Clancy looking at it
would do little to help or mend
it, as Jack Hay cynically re-
marked, his grey eyes following
the pair, his hat —a curious hat
for a fourteen-year-old school-
boy—shapeless, adorned with a
lyrebird feather, a clerical
black, pushed back from his sun-
burnt forehead and sandy hair.
Jack Hay further remarked,
spitting into the irrigation-ditch,
that it was his honest opinion
that Clancy only wanted an ex-
cuse to canter Nigger through
the little paddocks and, if
possible, to crack his whip—
Nigger, it should be mentioned in
passing, although a bit on the
lean side, was worthy of a rural
cavalier’s attention ; having won
a Maiden' Plate at Narrandera
once, an unspecified number of
years ago.
This was said scornfully, but
with a trace of envy. Jack Hay
came from some wild western
station where his father ran one
sheep to about a hundred acres
and still managed to shear an
incredibly large number of
sheep. To the arrogance of
acres, Jack added a scorn of
Clancy’s horsemanship. Jack
said he had seen Clancy, more
than once, gallop a horse after
sunset of a winter’s evening and
turn it loose sweating. A thing
never allowed on Din-Din.
Moreover, Clancy, for all his
flashness, had a loose seat on a
horse —to the seeing eye—and if
by any chance Clancy ever
carried his swag out to Din-Din
and asked for a job he, Jack,
would strongly advise against his
employment.
In the meantime, at Eurolie,
it was Clancy who, to all prac-
tical purposes, employed Jack.
Opening one bay and shutting
another, the soaked soil suck-
ing at the gumboots and drag-
ging at the shovel, hot sunlight
pouring down from a brilliant
blue sky, glancing from the
dusty red road and the dusty
dry gum-trees beyond the top-
paddock gate, shimmering on the
bright green of the irrigated pas-
tures, so vivid a contrast.
Jack, being fourteen, would
have preferred riding Nigger
and cracking Clancy’s sixteen-
strand kangaroo-hide whip to
digging in irrigation-ditches. And
so, infinitely more keenly, would
Jim Brooks, Jack’s gumbooted
and shovel-brandishing com-
panion ; although Jim wouldn’t
have cared to admit it off-hand.
Jim was taller
than Jack,
slimmer, with
long fingers,
large brown eyes
and untidy fine
dark hair; a
thoughtful nose smothered
in freckles, blue working
trousers and a flamboyant
checked shirt. Since coming to
Eurolie at the beginning of the
year, after a year at an ordinary
high school in Sydney, Jim had
admitted altogether too much.
His keenness to “go on the
land,” his naive city-bred en-
thusiasm. Jim had been de-
lighted when he heard about
“field-work” —the two half-days
a week set aside for practical
farm-work. Although he had
been a bit disappointed that
there weren’t more of them;
more disappointed when he dis-
covered that the other, the rou-
tine classwork, went on just the
same. Rather more so, per-
haps, with organised prep, every
night and no alibis for tasks
undone.
I>UT to his chagrin Jim dis-
covered that there was a
hierarchy of labor on field-
work. The interesting jobs, the
shearing, the driving of tractor
and reaper-and-binder, the mark-
ing of calves and lambs, went to
the senior boys. For such as he,
the routine, the undistinguished
and necessary jobs. Such as
weeding the garden-beds ; clean-
ing up the cowyard ; the shovel.
At this stage of the year Jim’s
enthusiasm for field-work had
noticeably decreased. Wilted
and all but died on a hot Friday
afternoon ; the water of the irri-
gation-ditch cool about his gum-
boots, but the sun hot on his bent
checked back while he dreamt
of the swimming-pool, the green
willows washing their hair in
the placid brown-green river,
the pontoon tilting crazily on
its empty drums and one brown
urchin after another flying out
like screaming Tarzans on the
long rope from the leaning river-
gum. Landing with mighty
splash and striking out for the
beach. That was where Jim
excelled ; in the water.
Even now, towards the end
of the year, with the triumphs
of the swimming carnival be-
hind him, Jim was still a little
unsure of himself, doubtful of
his status. It was his first year
at Eurolie, and not until after
the Christmas holidays had
come and gone would he fee im-
mune from the barbarities of a
system which entitled any boy,
from second year up, to com-
mand him to fetch and carry, or
summarily to chastise him. But,
because of his swimming, and
because he was, in fact, in
second year himself, he had got
off lightly so far. A little casual
persecution at first, a few fights.
Nothing much, really, as Jack
Hay had just been telling him —•
“Nothing to what we got”—with
a hint of gloating behind his
casual manner, more than a hint
of pride. Those elderly sadists,
Joe Cork, Bull Riley, Dabs
Hoover and the rest, had all
passed the Leaving and de-
parted to the university or back
to their unhappy families. Be-
sides, Jack said, the Boss had
set his face against the System
—had weakened it already, in
one year. And the school cap-
tain had lent the enormous pres-
tige of a strong personality and
a first-class athlete to rooting out
the worst abuses.
BUT these were politics a little
too Olympian for Jim’s
understanding. Such monsters
as Dabs Hoover, Joe Cork and
Bull Riley he could scarcely
visualise. Red Fraser was
bad enough to go on with.
Only last Saturday night,
innocently poking around
the stables, he had stumbled
upon Red and his satellites
holding a kind of private
auto-da-fe. Red himself, a
large, silent, smiling villain, with
close-cropped curly red hair and
a nose broken playing football,
took no active part in the pro-
ceedings. He sat enthroned on
a bag of chaff in the feed-room
while his followers tormented
their victims. The most industri-
ous of these, and the most obse-
quious, Ginger Hall, grabbed
Jim as soon as he showed him-
self.
“Here he is. Red, here’s a
first-year,” Ginger yelped.
Jim struggled, not too
violently. It was possible he
could break away from Ginger,
who, for his age, was puny, but
a quick glance assured him that
his escape was cut off by a
couple of sturdy members of the
gang.
“Not a first-year,” he said
sulkily. “Second-year.”
“First-year just the same,”
Ginger said, cuffing him for
insolence and thrusting him for-
ward. “What’ll we do with
him, Red?”
Ginger was a little squirt, Jim
thought, under Red’s lazy eye.
A little squirt thriving and
growing objectionable under
Red’s protection. If it wasn’t
for Red, Jim rather thought he
might be able to settle Ginger s
hash for him —as had thought
many another. The trouble was,
Red.,.
Jim thought quickly. “I’m
not truly a first-year. Red. Let
me go and I’ll get you a real
first-year”.,.
Red nodded; as though he
wasn’t greatly interested, any-
way, And the disappointed
little savage. Ginger, let him go.
Once outside there was nothing
to stop him making off into the
suckers. But a healthy dread
of Red and his friends made him
fulfil his end of the bargain. He
was in luck, too. For, giving a
demonstration of bicycle-control
outside the tarred and white-
washed piggery was a king of
captives, Sam, broad-shouldered,
strong, nearly as big as Jim. A
fierce fighter, a cunning and
elusive fugitive. Red would be
pleased. ,
Sam had finished pedalling in
the same place, and began to
move away.
“Hey, Sam, wait a minute,”
Jim said. Sam turned and
stopped. “Yes?” he said, and
smiled so pleasantly Jim felt a
pang of remorse. He stifled it.
“Hang on a minute —I want to
show you something,” he said.
Then he grabbed him.
Sam struggled lustily, punctu-
ating his struggles with pleas.
“Fair go—hey, fair go, Jim!”
and “What have I done to you ?”
Which, Jim told himself grimly,
wasn’t the point. The fault, if
any, lay with the System, Jim
was sure.
Still, he did feel a bit guilty
about Sam —unreasonable as the
feeling was. Especially when he
remembered that piece of cake
Sam had given him a week or
so before. If he had happened
to think of the cake at the time
he might even have let Sam go.
The System being what is was,
though, he couldn’t afford to
take any chances. Not till next
year. Then, he promised him-
self —if Red should leave school
—he would belt the ears off that
disgusting little sycophant Ginger
Hall. Apart from the coinci-
dence of them both having the
same colored hair, Jim couldn’t
see what Red saw in Ginger.,.
THE System made Jim grate-
. ful to Jack for his friendli-
ness. Jack was a neutral sort
of lad, well liked without being
wildly popular, a good cricketer
and fairly good tennis-player, a
poor but willing footballer. Jack
never seemed to get involved in
fights, and his most outstanding
characteristics, so far as Jim
could see, were his odd black
hat and his strong interest in
food. Jack mentioned food
now, glancing after the disap-
pearing small figure bn the lop-
ing black horse and leaning on
his shovel.
“A fellow needs something
solid in his belly after working
like this. Something like a
decent feed. Not just bread and
butter and jam.”
Jim agreed; and, agreeing,
allowed a rich slice of earth to
slide blackly back into the gurgl-
ing water. Clancy was away on
his frivolous errand. Mr. Moggs,
the senior field-work officer, was
over in the ram-paddock under
the shade of a kurrajong-tree
with Dolly. Why kill oneself?
Why, indeed? Jim planted one
rubber boot on the muddy shoul-
der of the shovel, folded his
arms on the round top of the
handle and rested his chin on
one moist brown arm. In this
pose of precarious leisure he
gave Jack and his problem wide
brown-eyed unblinking atten-
tion.
Clancy and Mr. Moggs might
have been simultaneously asking
(Continued on page 22)


INVESTMENT ■ IJ.C. 57. INVESTMENT • U.C. 57. INVESTMENT ■ I.A.C. 57. INVEST#
I. L C. 5 I INVESTMENT 5
This Prospectus is dated the 3rd day of February, 1953. A copy of this Prospectus has been filed_ with the Registrar-General of the State of Victoria. _ A copy has boon
filed with the Registrar-General of New South Wales, who, however, takes no responsibility as to its contents. A copy has also been filed with the Registrar ot Companies
in Queensland, the Registrar of Companies in South Australia, the Registrar of Companies in Western Australia and the Registrar of the Supreme Court ot Tasmania.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(Incorporated in the State of Victoria on 19th December, 1929, under The Companies Act 1928)
Prospectus of an issue at par (£100) of £3,000,000 5% First Mortgage Debenture Stock
o
v
ON
'OUR OP
APPLICATIONS FOR DEBENTURES
Holders of stock redeemable on 31st March, 1953, may apply on or before
20th February, 1953, for conversion on the appropriate form endorsed upon
the prospectus dated 2nd February, 1953. Cash applications may be lodged
on or after 9th February, 1953. If the Company in writing accepts any
application the Company shall be bound to allot stock in accordance with
the application, but not before 31st March, 1953, and the applicant will be
bound to accept the allotment. Application forms endorsed upon the pros-
pectus dated 2nd February, 1953, may be obtained from any of the offices
of the Company set out hereunder and from Members of Stock Exchanges
in all capital cities and from any branch of English, Scottish & Australian
Bank Ltd. and The National Bank of Australasia Ltd. Cash applications
should be accompanied by remittance of full amount of the stock applied
for. Interest will be computed as from the date of the receipt of the appli-
cation at the rate of 5% per annum.
TRUSTEES FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees Association of Australia Limited,
, 100-104 Queen Street, Melbourne.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS TO THE ISSUE
lan Potter & Co., 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
DIRECTORS
FREDERIC ERNEST BUNNY, 32 Atkinson Street, Oakleigh, Solicitor
(Chairman).
MAURICE SHMITH, Hotel Windsor, Spring Street, Melbourne, Company
Director (Deputy Chairman).
TIMOTHY GEORGE JONES, “Ripponlea,” Hotham Street, Elsternwick,
Barrister.
LIONEL NEWTON, Hotel Windsor, Spring Street, Melbourne, Warehouse-
man.
HENRY JAMES LANE, 28 Albany Road, Toorak, Company Director.
WALTER RICHARD GRENVILLE HISCOCK, 18 Haverbrack Avenue,
Malvern, Solicitor. f
lAN MATHIESON JACOBY, 2 Carrara Road, Vaucluse, N.S.W., Managing
Director.
SECRETARY
DONALD HUGH ROSS, 60 Collins Place, Melbourne, Chartered Accountant
(Aust.).
SOLICITORS
CORR & CORR, 104 Queen Street, Melbourne.
INVESTIGATING ACCOUNTANTS FOR THE UNDERWRITING BROKERS
HANCOCK & WOODWARD, Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 352 Collins
Street, Melbourne, and 19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
CONSULTING SOLICITORS TO THE UNDERWRITING BROKERS
MALLESON STEWART & CO., 46 Queen Street, Melbourne.
AUDITOR'S REPORT
Fleet House,
_ _. 60 Collins Place, Melbourne, C.l.
The Directors, . T . 2,lst Ta.nua.rv 1953
Industrial Acceptance Corporation Ltd., zlst Jd y ’ '
60 Collins Place, Melbourne, C.l.
Dealers,Auditor of INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION
LIMITED we report that the net profits of the Company in respect of the
three years ended 31st December, 1952, were as set out hereunder:—
Year ended 31st December, 1950 £671,661
Year ended 31st December, 1951 £914,414
Year ended 31st December, 1952 £1,407,690
In arriving at the abbvementioned figures no charge has been made to
provide for taxes paid or payable on income earned during that period, and
profits of Subsidiary Companies are only taken into account to the extent of
dividends received from them in each year.
The Paid-up Capital of the Company, and the dividends paid on the
Shares therein out of profits earned in respect of each of the three years
ended 31st December, 1950, 31st December, 1951, and 31st Dcember, 1952,
were as follows:
5% Cumulative Preference Shares—
Paid-up Capital at year end ..
Dividends
Ordinary Shares —
Paid-up Capital at year end ..
Dividends
1950
£500,000
5%
£1,250,000
121/2%
1951
£500,000
5%
£1,500,000
12-11/12%
1952
£500,000
5%
£1,500,000
*
(See below)
*An Interim Dividend of 4d. per share equalling 6% % of the Paid-up
Ordinary Capital was paid on 24th September, 1952 The Directors have
resolved to recommend at the Annual Meeting to be held on the 18th March,
1953, that a final dividend of sd. per share be paid on the Paid-up Ordinary
Capital out of the profits of the year ended 31st December, 1952, which, if
and when paid, will total 15% for such year. .
This report was prepared for inclusion in a Prospectus for the re-issue of
£3,000,000.) Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock.
Yours faithfully,
L. B. WALLACE,
R. G. WALLACE,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.).
STATUTORY INFORMATION
1. There are no founders, management or deferred shares.
2. The proceeds of the present re-issue of debenture stock will be applied
solely for the redemption in part of existing debenture stock falling due on
31st March 1953 and accordingly no amount must be raised by the re-issue
in respect of the following matters:—
(a) Preliminary expenses.
(b) The purchase of any property purchased or to be purchased which is
to be defrayed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the issue.
(c) The repayment of any moneys borrowed by the Company in respect
of any of the foregoing matters.
(d) Working capital.
Save the amount of preliminary expenses of the issue, including underwriting,
commission and brokerage which is estimated at £79,000 and will be paid
out of the income of the Company, no amount is to be provided for any of
the foregoing purposes otherwise than out of the proceeds of the issue.
3. No shares or debentures have been issued or agreed to be issued within
the two preceding years as fully or partly paid up otherwise than in cash.
4. The total amount paid within the two preceding years as commission or
brokerage for procuring subscriptions for Debentures of the Company was
£28,505, and the amount payable as commission or brokerage or both
on the present issue is £60,000. No Director or Promoter or expert or
proposed Director is entitled to receive any such commission or brokerage.
No amount has been paid within the two preceding years to the date hereof
as commission or brokerage for subscribing or agreeing to subscribe or
procuring or agreeing to procure subscriptions for any shares.
5. The dates of and parties to any material contract (not being a contract
entered into in the ordinary course of the business carried on or intended to be
carried on by the Company or a contract entered into more than two years
preceding the date of issue of this Prospectus) and a reasonable time and
place at which such material contracts or a copy thereof may be inspected
are as follows:
(a) Agreements dated I3th March, 1951, made between Frederic Ernest
Bunny, Lionel Ballard Wallace and Executors Estate of Robert Nathan,
deceased, respectively, of the first part, the Company of the second
part and Robert Gordon Wallace of the third part relating to the
acquisition of shares.
(b) Agreements dated 14th March, 1951, made between Herbert William
Austin, Byfleet Pty. Ltd., Francie Una Christian, Stanley James
Hannan, Lorna Hannan, Executors Estate W. G. Hiscock, Walter
Richard Grenville Hiscock, lan Mathieson Jacoby, Premier Investments
Ltd., Timothy George Jones, Louisa Jones, Henry James Lane, Execu-
tors Estate R. T. Lane, Stella Maud Adeline Lane, Thelma Marie
Lane, Executors Estate B. Nathan, Executors Estate J. Nathan, Lionel
Newton, Lauri Joseph Newton, Shirley Schenken, Anne Elizabeth
Shmith, Maurice Shmith, Margaret Alexandra Troy and Evelyn May
Wallace respectively of the first part, the Company of the second part
and Robert Gordon Wallace of the third part, relating to the acquisition
of shares.
(c) Agreement dated 15th March, 1951, made between Nancye Ford of the
first part, the Company of the second part and the said Robert Gordon
Wallace of the third part relating to the acquisition of shares.
(d) Three Debentures each dated 30th July, 1951, given by the Company
to the said The Perpetual Executors and Trustees Association of Aus-
tralia Limited and registered in Queensland, South Australia and Wes-
tern Australia respectively.
(e) A supplemental Trust Deed dated 18th April, 1951, made between the
Company and The Perpetual Executors and Trustees Association of
Australia Limited.
(f) A supplemental Trust Deed dated 9th December, 1952, made between
the Company and The Perpetual Executors and Trustees Association of
Australia Limited.
(g) Acknowledgments of indebtedness, dated respectively 16th May, 1951,
and 15th December, 1952, given by the Company to the Perpetual
Executors and Trustees Association of Australia Limited.
(h) An agreement dated 2nd April, 1952, between the Company and William
lan Potter, and Henry Arthur Pitt, carrying on business as lan Potter
& Co., for the underwriting of Debenture Stock.
(i) An agreement dated 27th January, 1952, between the Company and
William lan Potter, Henry Arthur Pitt, Cecil Thomas Looker, Noel
Keith Miller and Geoffrey Donald Brown, carrying on business as lan
Potter & Co., for the underwriting of this Debenture Stock.
There are no other material contracts.
Copies of the abovementioned Agreements may be inspected at the Offices of
the Company set out hereunder.
6. The business of the Company has been carried on for more than three
years.
7. The date of allotment of Debenture Stock subscribed pursuant to this
Prospectus shall not be later than 21st April, 1953.
8. The Auditors of the Company are Lionel Ballard Wallace and Robert
Gordon Wallace (practising a- L. B. Wallace & Son), Chartered Accountants
(Aust), 60 Collins Place, Melbourne, 200 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, and
309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Registered Offices af which the Company has established places of business:—
VIC. 60 Collins Place, Melbourne.
N.S.W. 200 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Q'LD. 104 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
end branch at 129 Flinders Street, Townsville.
"" '■ Vi.-.v : ' ' 7- vV' > -CL-
.
S.A. 95 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
W.A. 156 St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
TAS. 61 Liverpool Street, Hobart,
and branch at 36 St. John Street, Launceston.
f
i
U.C. 57. INVESTMENT ■ l.i.C. 57. INVEST^


o
m
a
N
THE SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
announces
that its
4 3 /4%
£lOOO,OOO
LOAN
IS NOW OPEN!
For the first time since its inception, the Sydney County
Council offers loan investors £4/15/- annually for each
£lOO subscribed. You decide the date for the repayment
of your capital—your investment will mature in 7 or 12
years. You choose the term when you fill in your
application form.
For each £lOO invested, the shorter term will earn £33/5/-
interest, the longer term £57, from this Authorised
Trustee Investment in N.S.W. Either way, you gain the
same high rate—more than double bank interest.
IT'S EASY TO INVEST TODAY
Call at any branch of the Commonwealth Bank or apply through
your Stockbroker.
ASSETS WORTH £24,500,000 SAFEGUARD
THE SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL 4¥a% ELECTRICITY LOAN
Loan No. 54, issued at par, is underwritten by lan Potter & Co.,
Melbourne, and will close on or before 21st February, 1953.
-■ SYL2-53
the same philosophical question.
For Clancy spied a friend driv-
ing from the brick-kiln in a red
truck and cantered over to the
fence to halt him and yarn to
him. And Mr. Moggs, rolling a
cigarette under the kurrajong-
tree, softly conversed with
Dolly, who spasmodically
swished her tail at flies and
nodded her sleek head between
the shafts of the spring-cart.
Dolly’s liquid-brown and dream-
ing eyes under drowsy lids, her
trembling hairy lip and nodding
head all professed entire but
sleepy agreement with Mr.
Moggs’s murmured comments
on the jolly rams, the jolly boys
and that young jolly Clancy. Mr.
Moggs, a lean, gentlemanly sort
of man, with rimless glasses and
brick-red face and trousers
worn half-mast, never swore,
substituting ‘always “jolly,”
whether in mild deprecation or
hot condemnation. Mr. Moggs,
softly-spoken, middle-aged and
a family man, was in every way
a great contrast to Clancy, who
was young, spectacular and
earthy.
And Dolly, the sturdy little
bright bay mare, with her hairy
heels and round barrel and meek
air, was a bitch. Mr. Moggs,
even though he talked to her,
was not deceived by her. She had
bitten him that morning, when
he was testing the harness. But
for Mr. Moggs Dolly did have
a restrained affection. Her
natural prey was boys. Especi-
ally new boys. Boys like Jim,
with a sentimental love for ani-
mals. She looked so pretty,
standing in the stable-yard, a
little apart from the other horses,
her meek head low, her eyes
melting in a kind of gentle
brown fire. The boy sent to
catch her would be delighted to
find that she took the initiative
—advancing towards him, offer-
ing her sleek head to the bridle.
He could scarcely resist patting
her—stroking the crooked star
of white hairs on her forehead—
and Dolly would gently nuzzle
him. Then, when he was calling
her pet names she would
treacherously bite him hard on
the abdomen, whirl with a squeal
of triumph and contemptuously
flirt her heels about his head.
And depart, making rude noises.
There were limits to Dolly’s
malice. She never actually
kicked anyone—only scared the
daylights out of them. But she
bit hard.
TINDER the shapeless black
hat Jack’s tan face was ex-
cited, his grey eyes gleamed: he
talked like a man with a cause.
“Snags again today for lunch—
salmon for the Catholics. I
don’t mind work—l can work—
if I want to —but I’m blowed if
I’m goin’ to work without
enough tucker.”
“I get pretty hungry some-
times, too,” Jim said thought-
fully.
“Sometimes? I’m always
hungry. I’m hungry now.”
When he came to think of it,
Jim thought he might be hungry,
too. He began to experience a
painful gnawing sensation under
the discolored marks of Dolly’s
teeth, “Gripes,” he exclaimed,
in an excess of passion, “I
could go a good feed. I could
eat a pound of steak!”
“A pound! ” cried Jack scorn-
fully, “That’s nothing! Qp
Din-Din....”
But a sound came to their ears,
interrupting him. Then it was
repeated, followed by a fusillade.
“What did I tell you?” Jack
said.
Under the kurrajong-tree Mr.
Moggs twisted his lean brick-red
neck sharply, pointed his glaring
glasses, and mouthed “jolly”
bitterly. He had particular rea-
sons for not wanting those ewes
and lambs disturbed. But the
Romney ewes and their big
lumps of lambs were already
pouring across their field of
emerald green in a woolly-white
flood, with Clancy behind them
cracking his whip.
When Clancy returned, lead-
ing Nigger, he found the two
boys splashing earth around in
a listless manner and discussing
the state of their insides. Clancy
cut short these interesting revela-
tions with a curt “Here, lad,
hold this horse” —Clancy always
adopted a high tone with the
junior boys, although he was in-
clined to fawn on the likes of
Red Fraser—and Jim hastened
to obey; not so much from
natural courtesy as from a keen
romantic pleasure he experi-
enced in handling the reins of a
handsome black creature like
Nigger.
“Like this, lad,” Clancy said,
seizing Jim’s dropped shovel.
Clancy was a great one for pick-
ing up shovels, working with
furious energy “like this” for a
few minutes and then dropping
them.
Jack leant on his own shovel
and watched cynically. Clancy
was a little fellow of about five-
and-twenty, with hard, creased
hands, a ruddy, round, bucolic
face, without much chin to
speak of and a good deal of
mouth that spoke loudly and
often. There was no great harm
in Clancy. If he liked to indulge
in fantasies of pugilism, rough-
riding, love-making and bush-
manship no one was the loser on
that account. A fair number of
boys, indeed, counted his
loquacity a blessing, for cunning
questions and admiring “Gee —
didya, Mr. Clancy?” could
usually divert Clancy from
manual labor to the fascinating
labor of imaginative composi-
tion ; a good thing for all.
“That’s the way to do it, lad,”
Clancy said, puffing and fixing
Jack Hay with a hard task-
master’s eye. Jack, as became
the future master of Din-Din,
stared hardily back, and
Clancy’s eye wavered and fell.
He grinned broadly and wiped
his round shiny face with a large
scarlet dotted handkerchief.
“ ’S’ot,” he said in quite a com-
radely way, and Jack hastened
to agree.
/'"'LANCY put his hands on his
hips and posed a little,
frowning seriously at the burn-
ing sky, quizzically in the direc-
tion of Mr. Moggs’s cottage,
with a pair of Mr. Moggs’s
patched working trousers flap-
ping on the line. “Might rain,”
Clancy said, and Jack leant on
his shovel, while Jim’s exploring
brown fingers hooked over
Nigger’s green-stained bit. “Been
lookin’ at those yo’s. Fair bit
of sheep-stealin’ goin’ on, so
Harry Pearson from the brick-
kiln was just telling me.”
“Sheep-stealing?” said Jack,
and' “Sheep-stealing?” echoed
Jim. Brown eyes stared at grey
eyes, full of wild and rampant
question, half-agreement.
“Sheep-stealing, eh?” said
Jack. The words had wholly
different associations in the ears
of the two boys. To Jack, the
vast intertwining grapevine of
pasture - protection boards,
graziers’ associations and coun-
try police-stations. Sheep-steal-
ing was serious. A man could
murder his wife in Batlow and
be forgotten next week in Booli-
gal. Not so with the sheep-
stealer. A good many did it, of
course, in a casual, saving way.
Some fortunes were built on it.
The Hays, too, for all Jack
knew; certainly Grandfather
Hay had been a rum old party.
But...a doubt crawled through
Jack’s mind. Unlike the tran-
sient wife-murderer, a convicted
sheep-stealer would be known
throughout the State. Twenty
- years later some grizzled sheep-
man at Yass or Tamworth,
Deniliquin or Holbrook could
recite the deed of iniquity, chap-
ter and verse.
Sheep-stealing, to Jim, was
simply pinching a sheep. A
phrase with fine exciting conno-
tations; like “cattle-duffing” and
“bail-up.”
“Trucks?” Jack said shrewdly.
His thoughts were racing, gal-
loping dangerously, and his grey
eyes strayed to the green pad-
dock and the fine six-months-old
lambs. They were the pride of
the school, those dumpy lambs
by Southdown sires. Thirty-six
to forty pounds dressed weight,
but more like a ton of bricks to
drag one kicking through the
suckers and up to their camp
near Second Beach. To say
nothing of the dangerous road.
It would be a joke, though, by
golly! Wouldn’t They be mad?
The Boss, Mr. Moggs, the august
authorities?
They had sent an experimental
shipment to Smithfield (England)
last year, with highly satisfac-
tory results. The Boss tad
growled with pleasure, and Mr.
Moggs had said “Not bad —not
too jolly bad at all” at least
twenty times in the course of one
field-work afternoon. Even
Clancy had forgotten his con-
quests long enough to claim a
little credit for himself.
And this year, this weekend,
perhaps—Jack stole an apprais-
ing glance at Jim, and inwardly
nodded —yes, tomorrow night it
had better be, it would be Jack
Hay and Jim Brooks who would
sample the fine Eurolie lamb-
chops. And plump leg. And
toothsome, sweet and wholly-
filling lumps and slabs of cold
meat to carry with them and
gnaw if suddenly overtaken by
hunger. To fill one’s belly, once
and for all, was almost worth
eternal disgrace.
Jack’s wicked brain boiled and
bubbled furiously. They must
get some salt. And a butchers-
knife could, with skill and luck,
be lifted from out of the kitchen-
door between the dawn and the
day, Jack s evil genius, which
accompanied Jack to English
classes and Kipling, chanted de-
liriously. And, oh, the sweet
pain of filling a clamorous four-
teen-year-old belly.
With meat. For, as Jack had
admitted to Jim just before
Clancy arrived, they got plenty
of the other stuff. Roughage.
Plenty of milk, too, to be fair,
and it was not impossible to
steal goodly lumps of yellow
butter from the dairy. But Jack
craved meat. On Din-Din, Jack
told an impressed Jim, they
slaughtered whole flocks of
sheep weekly. Meat. Jack
lusted after the sweet Eurolie
lambs.
And so, judging by his wide
brown fascinated stare, did Jim.
Jack was certain of that—sure
in his bones. It was one of
those electrifying communica-
tions of desire, a sort of irresist-
ible telepathy that small boys
and savages never question, be-
cause they have never been
taught better.
6 6-TRUCKS,” Clancy was
saying. "The thieving
cows come out from town in
trucks. I’d better not catch
them!” Clancy cocked his hat
truculently—it was not an
American sombrero, exactly, but
as close as possible to one —spat
on his cracked palms and hooked
his thumbs in his plaited belt.
Two pairs of eyes, grey arid
brown, were instantly levelled
on him, measuring his chances
in pursuit, through bog and
thistle, bung, cumbungi and dry
creek-beds, in the dark. Con-
sidering that they knew the
ground as a suburban gardener
knows his tool-shed, and were
young and confident and fleet,
they didn’t think they need fear
Clancy overmuch. Even though
Clancy was fond of remarking
on the time he ran in the StaweU
Gift —“before that, brumby broke
me leg.”
Clancy wore gumboots, too.
But usually, and by choice, he
wore elastic-sided riding-boots.
Good boots for riding in ; not
so good for chasing sheep-thieves
through the sucker forest, run-
ning flat-out, tripping over
things in the dark.
“No idea who they are —these
sheep-thieves-—have you, Mr.
Clancy?” Jim asked innocently.
Darkly Clancy answered that
he had his suspicions; darkly
stared at the flat red road and
a wheeling hawk. And darkly
mumbling that a lot of flash
coves who drove cars and did
all right with the sheilas didn’t
get the cash for these luxuries
by good old-fashioned yakka,
graft, or, otherwise, toil, Clancy
rolled a cigarette with one hand,
an art he had perfected in secret.
Jim squatted on his heels, pre-
pared to hear more. But Mr,
Moggs, a lean, sunburnt
charioteer, was riding through
the gate towards them, a dismal
train of first-years at his wheels.
So Clancy said “Hop up on that
horse, lad, and canter over and
hunt those dry cows up the lane.
Look smart!”
Jim looked smart. He fairly
leapt at Nigger,* making that
self-respecting horse start and
toss his head and blow through
his velvet nostrils. At last he
People of the Deer
Disillusioned by the endless
slaughter of war, Farley Mowat
sought a land where men lived
as brothers—and found friendly
sanctuary in the Arctic Barren
Lands.
February Reader’s Digest
brings you a 24-page book con-
densation, an unusual ana
absorbing story of how this
young Canadian, adopted by a
lost tribe of Eskimos, followed
the vast herds of migrating
caribou and came to know the
"People of the Deer” as no
other white man ever has.
Also in February issue
thirty-three other stimulating
articles of lasting interest con-
densed from world’s leading
magazines and current boo s.
Don’t miss Reader’s Digest
for February on sale now
one shilling and sixpence at an
newsagents and bookstalls.


MANAGER
Required for old-established
Wine Company in Adelaide with
Interstate connections. ’
Thorough knowledge of Wine
Industry, Marketing and
Administration required.
Applications in strict confidence,
stating age, experience and
approximate salary range
required,
to “The Chairman,”
Box 1024 J, G.P.0., ADELAIDE.
m
7
m*
I
m
m
mm.
m
V.
82r«
of
AUSTRALIAN MEN
wear
Self-supporting
Trousers
A recent survey reveals that a
man’s first concern is the fit, then
the color, then the material. This
explains why so many Australian
men wear only STAMINA Self-
supporting Trousers.
Yes! What you want, what you
rightly demand, is yours when
you INSIST on getting Stamina
Trousers. A comfortably stylish
fitting —lO attractive colors to
choose from Crusader Pure
Wool Worsted Cloth. Yes! you
certainly buy well when you
ASK FOR buy STAMINA *
Stamina
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
Obtainable from all leading Men’s Wear Stores
T 2-113
scrambled into the saddle,
conscious of Clancy’s grin, of
Jack’s satiric eye. With a loose
rein and bumping seat, Nigger’s
black mane in his face and a
happy heart, he thundered across
the green and patterned pad-
dock. Tentatively he patted
Nigger’s neck, thrilled to the feel
of the hot wet hide, while his
mind wheeled like a stockwhip
among the boughs of sheep-
stealing, cattle-duffing, wild pur-
suit and midnight rides. Sizzling
fat-lamb chops,..
AN Saturday night they stole
from their dormitory.
In socks they tiptoed side-by-
side down the dark passage, the
silent glass doors of the dormi-
tories on their right gleaming
palely from the little of the
moon that struggled through the
windows above the washbasins.
Where the shape of the build-
ing branched in a T, a passage
running to the left and the pas-
sage to the stairs in front of
them, they hesitated.
The door of Mr. Buckmaster’s
room was ajar. Light flooded
from it, and voices. The pleas-
ant, powerful rumble of Mr.
Buckmaster’s voice, the Scottish
burr of Mr. McAllister’s, the
dairy- and piggery-instructor;
another unidentifiable one.
Hearts beat quicker, breath came
shallow and afraid. Mr, Buck-
master, the senior maths master,
was a terror, and, to make the
danger more acute, Mr. Buck-
master, who had never shirked a
duty in his life, or even been
satisfied with doing it as well as
anyone else, was on duty that
night. When Jim had learned
that Mr. Buckmaster was on duty
he had wanted to drop the whole
business sheep-stealing was
dangerous, he had argued, and,
besides, Mr. Buckmaster would
not be deceived by the dummies
in their beds, however skilfully
made. Not Mr. Buckmaster.
But sandy-haired Jack had been
implacable, his hunger for mut-
ton would not be denied.
So here they were, boots in
hand, in the creaking darkness,
with a yellow pool of light hold-
ing their eyes like mesmerised
rabbits, Mr. Buckmaster’s mel-
low, terrible laughter in their
ears. Mr. Buckmaster was
feared, perhaps, a little more
than Mr. Morgan, who was an
ogre of dark furies and lashing
cane. That two such dominat-
ing characters should be on the
teaching staff at the same time
was, Jim dimly felt, a little un-
fair. A scurvy trick of fate.
Each should have had a genera-
tion of his own to terrorise.
Mr. Buckmaster had a heavy
hand with the cane, as he had a
clear, sharp and compelling
brain in his diabolical subject.
They knew, of course, almost
everything about him. His first-
class honors, the University
Medal, the fiancee who motored
over sometimes in a little* red
car. At the University he had,
as a matter of course, played
first-grade football and cricket.
He was born to be successful.
In sport Mr. Morgan, too, had
his substantial claims. Mr.
Buckmaster’s prowess was now
mostly legend —worn and un-
ostentatious honors, like his
University blazer. Mr. Buck-
master was still remembered in
Rugby Union circles in Sydney
as an icy-calm fullback, a re-
liable defender. With any
chance at all, and ground to
move in, they didn’t get past
Roderick Buckmaster. But Mr.
Morgan’s fame was flamboy-
antly in the present.
/"\UT on the veranda beyond
the stairs a sleeper groaned
and rolled ; and Jack and Jim
bolted like a pair of rabbits who
have broken the spell. Careless
now of noise. Jim, who had
been hurling defiance at police
and authority, transformed by
the magic of an adolescent
imagination into a kind of .Hadji
Stavros of sheep-stealers, a fear-
less and mutton-eating Ned
Kelly changed as quickly into
a panic-stricken creature of the
night. Even Jack’s stout heart
and indomitable stomach quailed
at the thought of Mr. Buck-
master’s square jaw and blaz-
ing eyes close behind them.
But Mr. Buckmaster had not
heard them. Mr. Buckmaster
was at ease in his room with Mr.
McAllister and wiry little Mr.
Beath, the French master, talk-
ing fishing and changing into
old clothes. Mr. Beath had
promised to keep an eye on the
new-building wing while Mr.
McAllister and Mr. Buckmaster
went up-river.
“What about Ken?” Mr.
Buckmaster said, tossing and
catching a sinker in his lean
brown hand.
A faint smile crossed Mr. Mc-
Allister’s broad, brick-red,
strongly-boned face. Mr. Mc-
Allister was short and very
broad and muscular, with steady
light-blue eyes and thin sandy
hair. A man of surprising parts,
Mr. McAllister, who was popu-
larly 'supposed never to sleep.
Certainly the boys on cows, at
whatever dark wintry hour they
went to wake him at the staff
cottage he shared with Clancy
and old Finnigan, the other un-
married member of the field
staff, always found him very
much awake. A cigarette stuck
in the middle of his strong red
face, a book open on the table.
It might be a book of genetics,
it might be the meticulous
record of every cow and heifer,
calf, boar, sow and pigling in
his shinily efficient domain ; or,
again, it might be aeronautical
engineering or poetry. For
there were two Mr. McAllisters ;
or perhaps three. The one who
bustled about in gum-boots,
brawny arms bare, from the
dairy to the piggery, and back,
with a most confusing speed;
the Mr. McAllister of show-
rings who devoted patient
thought to the love-affairs and
family background of Jerseys
and Berkshires. The Mr. Mc-
Allister who read poetry and
discussed philosophy with Mr.
Buckmaster; and, again, the
Mr. McAllister, a B-class pilot,
who ran the Air Cadet branch.
“Well,” Mr. Buckmaster re-
peated, in his voice a mellow
thunder; which sent shivers
down the spines of wrongdoers
but only caused Mr. McAllister
to smile more broadly. “What
about him —is he coming, or isn’t
he??
“Mr. Morgan,” Mr. Mc-
Allister said, “when I last saw
him, from my bedroom window,
was much more agreeably
engaged,”
pvOWN by the canal Jim and
Jack were putting on their
boots, which they would have
done as soon as they came down,
in the shadow of the grim brick
and’ concrete building, had they
dared. But it had seemed safer
to endure the pebbles and scuttle
for the deeper, tangled shadows
of the canal. Here, leaning
against a rotting willow stump,
the drooping trails of willow-
leaves screening them like a
sweeping veil, they conversed in
whispers:
“You got the bag?”
“Yair.”
“Knife —steel?”
“Um-m-m.”
A profound silence spread on
the countless tiny noises of the
night. The beating of insects’
wings, the rustle of spear-headed
dry cumbungi, the swaying of
leaves. They could hear a calf
bawling behind the dairy, and
far away the coughing note of a
car. And around them, like a
kind of witchlike vapor, rose
the misty reflection of moonlight
mixed with the stagnant smell of
the low oily black water in the
canal.
Jim slapped at a mosquito,
and, frightened by the sound,
dropped to his haunches. After
a moment’s hesitation, so did
Jack. •
Both boys were feeling a re-
action, a draining of courage.
After that silent compact up in
the top paddock there had been
little need for formal planning,
only practical details to be
arranged. But, ever since, they
had talked of little else, goading
each other on with visions of
gluttonous bliss. Never had
they felt so hungry as during
this interminable waiting period.
And Jim, for his part, was more
excitedly happy than he had
been since coming to Eurolie,
bound by the strong bonds of a
secret and dangerous enterprise.
That had been all very well:
the audacious planning, the de-
lightful hugging of guilt. But
this was the cold reality: the
night, da’rk and vast and filled
with menace, the weapons of
their felony at their feet. Jim
began to think that it wouldn’t
be so bad to be safe in bed.
But Jack was the leader. He
spoke now, his voice rising too
loudly at first, dropped suddenly
to a whisper.
“We’ll dump the gear first—
too awkward to carry.
“Where?” Jim breathed. He
felt better now, a gush of
courage. And the night was not
so dark, the moon rising serenely
and running corrugated ribbons
down the roof.
Jack pointed at the tree.
“There. I found a place this
•morning—scooped a hole out —
under a bush. We can sneak up
along the fence.”
“Go-ood.” It was not fear
but excitement that gripped Jim
now. He wouldn’t have minded
continuing the adventure. Why
be satisfied with one sheep—
why not whole flocks of them?
Why not, in fact, a regular
career of crime? The Night
Rider of Eurolie, he would be
called, perhaps, or maybe the
Midnight Terror.
But Jack was whispering
urgently: “We’ll go up the track
through the suckers —safer than
the road —safer than up through
the triangle...”
“We’ll have to cross the
road...”
“Yes, near the main gates.
We’ll have to risk it...”
“W-wh-a-a-t was that?” from
Jim. And a gulping “Oh, gosh!”
from Jack.
For a dreadful crashing and
thumping noise came from be-
hind them. They fell flat on their
faces, pressing their cheeks to
the familiar earth, dry twigs of
willow in their hair and terror
in their hearts. But “cheep”—
it was only a water-hen—and
they sat up again with shame-
faced grins.
“We’d better go,” Jack said
briskly, rising.
“Yair,” said Jim, and stooped
to pick up the sugar-bag.
TTHEY trod cautiously past the
ruins of the old stable —a
sort of hewn-log Stonehenge in
the moonlight—-for this was
dangerous going, open country ;
and, as soon as was feasible,
they darted for the box-hedge.
{Continued on page 34)


: V,
m
mu
m
V
■WWWMf.WS ?!
IH9IU SIH9I3M
Time’s right . . film’s right . .
nil set for some fine indoor
snapshots. Be sure you keep
a permanent photographic
record of your youngster as
he grows up; in the years
ahead you’ll find hours of
pleasure in your album,
when you use KODAK FILM
‘it gets the picture *
Lift;
KF673
EVERYWHERE
Head
E.
Fire,
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS. R. J. VICARS,
j. W. DUNLOP, A. H. DICKINS. G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager. _
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Blackcock’s Feather
by Maurice Walsh.—5435.
To buy the complete Mozart letters
in either one or more volumes.—5430.
Words of verse containing the lines
They wouldn’t do it now, of course.
And that’s their alibi.
—5429.
To buy copies of The Bulletin
for January 29, 1930; January 31,
1940; and February 1, 1950.—5431.
Name of French author who wrote
“Je donne remerciments au bon Dieu
que les Epines ont des Roses,” and
name of work in which they appear.
—5426.
Name of author (and title of poem)
of the following lines: —•
There shall be apples in the harvest still
And springtime, blossoms again,
Summer returning and green on the hills
From the early autumn rains:
But never Australia’s fallen sons •
To the land that was their own
While the earth goes round or the rivers
run
Until Gabriel’s trump is blown.
—5433.
Information Sought
(1) Treatment for an orange-tree
which fails to bear fruit ? (2) Would
grafting help? (3) Where can I get
any information on the subject?
(1) Failure is probably due to
weakness which can result from a
number of causes. Most likely remedy
is to introduce a more thrifty con-
dition in the tree by applying a
plentiful amount of nitrogen and by
ensuring that the tree is supplied with
sufficient, but not excess, moisture.
(2) Unlikely. (3) From N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture, Farrer-place,
Sydney.
* * *
How to home-cure tobacco ?
There is nothing simple in any part
of the processing of tobacco; ail the
amateur can achieve is the production
of a harsh, dry twist, the flavor of
which is, to say the least, an acquired
taste. The three main ways of drying
are: fa) in the air hanging on lines,
care being taken to avoid rain on
the leaves; fb) hanging in a barn
until dry; (c) flue-drying ’by heat.
If the leaves are dried too much they
become brittle and break up into
powder. To avoid this, subject them
to applied or atmospheric moisture
to make them limp enough to roll
up into bundles for fermentation.
The leaves are piled in heaps like a
compost-heap, and turned and
worked about for about three to five
weeks until fermentation has ceased.
This is a process requiring much
experience. Final curing is done by
storing for a long period, several
years in old processes, and maturing
for another long period of years; at
one stage saucing is done by the
addition of alcohols, treacle, spices,
etc., according to the variety of
tobacco being produced. These pro-
cesses have been shortened by
modern methods. This is only the
briefest description of the work,
which requires skill, experience and
much gear for good tobacco, as well
as the right soil and climate. Grow-
ing of plants is illegal in many parts,
and a licence would be difficult to
obtain unless the grower supplied a
recognised commercial factory. Write
to the Under-Secretary, Department
of Agriculture, Melbourne, for infor-
mation concerning the legal position
of an amateur grower and further
information on home-curing—if the
latter is supplied.
* * * *
Difference between “receiving” and
“adopting” minutes ?
To receive (or confirm) minutes
means merely that the minutes of the
previous meeting, as read to members,
are declared to be an accurate reading
of those minutes. When the minutes
are adopted they are considered to be
ratified, and any resolutions and deci-
sions contained therein are thence-
forward to be put into practice by
the organisation concerned.
* * * *
What is the greatest depth at which
mining is carried on in the world,
and at what mine?
According to the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Mines, the latest informa-
tion is that the Crown mines at Wit-
watersrand (S. Africa), working at a
maximum depth of 9250 ft. below
collar in 1950, were the deepest work-
ings up to February, 1952. The
Oonegum mine on the Kolar gold-
fields (Mysore, southern India) was
working at a depth of 9220 ft. at the
end of 1947, and may have gone
deeper since then, while a number of
other mines in India, South Africa
and Brazil which have been working
at depths of over 8000 ft. may possibly
have since gone deeper than the deptff
at the Crown mines.
* * * *
(1) Which is the better boxer of
brothers Dick and Randolph Turpin ?
(2) Where were they born, and what
is their nationality? (3) Was either
a champion ?
(1) Randolph Turpin has done
much better than brother Dick in the
boxing game, as Randolph won the
world middleweight championship
from Ray Robinson (points, 15
rounds) at London Harringay Stadium
on July 10, 1951, although Robinson
stopped him in round 10 of their
return contest at New York on
September 12, 1951. (2) Both were
born at Leamington (England); they
are colored—their father was a native
of British Guiana, their mother a
white Englishwoman. (3) Both won
the British Empire middleweight title,
as well as the middleweight champion-
ship of Great Britain. Dick has not,
apparently, fought since the late Dave
Sands k.o.’d him in round one at
Harringay Stadium on September 6,
1949, but Randolph is rated as out-
standing contender for the world
middleweight crown which Ray
Robinson recently vacated.
* * * *
Some information on an artist
named Gavarni?
“Gavarni” was the pseudonym of
Hippolyte Guillaume Sulpice Cheva-
lier. Born in Paris in 1804, he began
life in an engineering workshops.
About 1838 he became editor of
“Les Gens du Monde,” a series of
satirical sketches of Parisian youth.
After that he worked on “Charivari.”
In 1848 he went to England, where
he published sketches entitled
“Gavarni in London,” “Les Parents
Terribles,” “Les Enfants Terribles,”
and illustrated some of “Hoffmann’s
Tales.” He died at Auteuil in 1866.
Don’t know of any reproductions of
his work available, but no doubt old
ones may be obtained through
secondhand-print sellers. There are
also probably copies of some of the
works named in public libraries.
* * * *
(1) What are artificial fertilisers?
(2) Satisfactory preparation of arti-
ficial manure for citrus-trees ? (3)
What are trace-elements?
(1) Any chemically or mechanically
prepared material produced for use
as a fertiliser. Commercial fertilisers
are classed into three major groups—
nitrogenous fertilisers (including sul-
phate-of-ammonia, nitrate-of-soda,
blood-and-bone), phosphatic fertili-
sers (superphosphate), and potassic
fertilisers (rauriate-of-potash, sulphate-
of-potash). (2) A good manure is
6cwt. sulphate-of-ammonia, 3cwt.
super., licwt. sulphate-of-potash.
Mix all together, and apply lib. per
tree for each year of its age. Dis-
tribute evenly, not too close to the
butt of the tree. A dressing twice a
year—the first near the end of winter,
the second at Christmas-time —is best.
(3) They are the minor elements in
the soil—copper, molybdenum, man-
ganese, zinc and boron. In small
quantities they are essential for plant-
development. Lack of them is respon-
sible for development of serious
plant- and animal-diseases. They
may occur as impurities in commer-
cial fertilisers, and are supplied also
by organic matter derived from plants
which had had a sufficiency of them.
Brief Answers
D.C.: A first edition of Louis
Becke’s Wild Life in Southern Seas
(1897) would be worth about £1
E.L.W.: An account of the incident
will be found on page 150 of vol. 1
of The Story of Anzac by C. E. W.
Bean... .H.A.G.: Ealing Studios,
Ltd., Ealing Green, W. 5; R.K.O.
Radio British Productions, Ltd., 2
Dean-street, W.l; Associated British-
Pathe, Ltd., Pathe House, 133 Oxford-
street, W.l; British Lion Film Cor-
poration, Ltd., 146 Piccadilly, W.l —
all London A. 8.; When “-nga”
is used at the end of South Australian
aboriginal place-names it signifies
“by, at, near or belonging to” that
place; i.e., Patawalonga, “eucalyptus-
scrub place”; Willunga, “a scrubby
place”; Witoinga, “a reedy place”;
Onkaparinga, “the woman’s place by
the river” T.J.E.: Native Trees of
Australia by J. W. Audas, obtainable
through any leading bookseller....
L.H.H.: Write Mr. J. S. Strong,
Motor Secietary, Australian Associa-
tion of British Manufacturers, 11
Castlereagh-street, Sydney P. 8.:
Stefan Zweig, the Austrian author,
took his own life in Petropolis,
Brazil, in 1942 K.J.; The book
was The Villa Diana by Alan Moore-
head. It was published by Hamish
Hamilton, London, in 1951 E.F.:
Write Institute of Public Affairs (Vic-
toria), 289 Flinders-lane, Melbourne.
. ...F.T.L.: See An Autobituary by
Robert Henderson Croll, published by
the Bread and Cheese Club, Mel-
bourne, in 1946 A.P.; The Senate
consists of 60 members, each State
being represented by 10 Senators.
Prior to February 22, 1950, the Senate
comprised 36 members —each State
returning six Senators. Ordinarily the
term of a Senator is six years, half
the number of Senators retiring every
three years. In the case of a double-
dissolution all Senators are elected
at the same time, half the number
serving for three years and half for
six years... .G.K.: By the Com-
monwealth Service and Execution
of Process Act civil process
commenced in any State of the
Commonwealth may be served in any
other -State, and judgment obtained
in any State may be enforced in any
other State. In criminal proceedings,
a warrant issued in one State for the
apprehension or commitment of a
person and endorsed by a Justice of
the Peace in another State may be
duly executed in the latter State, and
is sufficient authority for the appre-
hension of the person named in the
warrant A.D.: Until 1907 it was
possible in Victoria to obtain a right
to “ancient lights” by long-estab-
lished enjoyment of the benefit of the
ancient light. Since that year it is
possible to obtain such a right by
agreement and not otherwise. There
seems to be no legal redress for the
situation you are in, but a protest
to the local municipal council might
produce some variation of the plan
for the shops J. 8.: The difference
in spelling between your baptismal
and registered names does not in any
way affect the legality and effective-
ness of your insurances, will, etc.,
though after your death it might
cause a little difficulty in establishing
the identity of yourself with the
person who died. You may change
your name by deed-poll and adver-
tisement in the Government Gazette,
but only from the date of the deed.
It does not in the circumstances seem
necessary to dp so L.0.M.; No
record of Napoleon ever having
smoked a pipe, though he took snuff.
Unable to find any reference at all to
the other matter.,.. .L.D.: The initials
G.I. actually stand for “Government
Issue,” and were stamped on all
clothing and equipment issued to the
U.S. armed forces. They then
began to be used facetiously by the
U.S. soldiers to describe themselves.
E.O.: Actually the master of an
overseas ship, or one registered over-
seas, does not as a rule possess a
pilotage-certificate for each Aus-
tralian port. Captains of local ves-
sels, however, usually do have such
pilotage-certificates, in which case they
don’t call on a local harbor pilot.
J.J.D.: Mrs. A3neas Gunn’s
address is Maningtree-road, Haw-
thorn (Vic.), H. E. Thonemann is
the present owner of Elsey. Uneas
Gunn once owned a quarter-share of
the property.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
C.W.N.: Stories of A.R.P. in
London well told, but not strong
enough to withstand the passage of
time J.G.: Not this trip V.S.:
“Sand Castle” washed away by the
tears of the office-boy’s girl-friend.
... .E.D.8.A.: Couldn’t detect a
ripple of promise in “The Big Pool.”
OJ.S.: No pearls there
V.M.: Send it to an English maga-
zine that prints that kind of light
verse E.S.L.: Just an everyday
nature-verse; pleasant, but saying
nothing new N.McG.: We agree
that it was “a horrible spectacle
under the pale sunrise”—J.J.W.:
Tossed back into the sea 8.E.R.:
You missed the track to print....
G.T.: Too slight an offering
P.G.L.: Australia seems to be filled
with amateur poets mooching about
the bush with rhyming dictionaries
in their pockets... .M.F.: Sorry to
note that your poor heart is “broken
and ground to dust” J.R.: If that
is how you feel why don’t you join
a happiness club? R.S.: Not find-
ing a home for your snail D.H.:
At least you achieved the distinction
of being the first reader this year
to write a winter poem F.T.C.:
Sunset poems are a penny a dozen.
....Bellerive: Can quite believe
that the following lines often moved
your late beloved sister to tears;
Upon the banks of the Tamer River,
As the winds of autumn did sigh,
Out in the bitter cold night
Under the starry sky.
Drearily the hour’s wore on.
White mists from the waters arose,
Which into my very bones
Did soak through my shoddy clothes.
Out on the quivering grass
I would that the night were gone.
Shivering and sad I did yearn,
Yearn for the break of dawn.
As a craft on a outward trip
Shed a light as it speeded by
I would ’twere bearing me home
Under the starry sky.
R.J.O’S.: Why don’t you sing
it to the lady? .... W.A.R.: Fair for
a child of that age, but we are
seeking verse written by adults for
adults H.P.: Among this week’s
cast-offs L.G.D.: A trio of misfits.
... .C.D.: Just another ship that
didn’t make port... .M.M.: It would
take a “Bellerive” to do it
justice M.R.8.: What on earth
is it all about?... .W.R..McK.: “I
have written this verse in order to
show how a big percentage of
shearers gamble on the day’s tally on
cards or two-up, with double-headed
pennies or cards that are sandpapered
to make the court-cards a trifle
smaller.” It is a pity that the verse
is not as good as your intention to
expose the sharpers... .V.C.8.: Not
Bulletin material;,. .1.A.: Only a
fear of reviving the Sydney-Mel-
bourne dog-fight prevents us from
printing it J.E.; What’s wrong
with all the poets this week? You’re
the tenth who wants to hide her head
alone and weep H.McK.: An
echo of Thos. E. Spencer’s “How
M’Dougal Topped the Score”
M.H.: Report of coffee-lounge
debate on modern art doesn’t make
a short story.,. .L.P.: We didn t
read the last page, but we are pre-
pared to bet that the outsider won
and restored Uncle Jim’s fortune.
... .N.H.: It doesn’t make sense
M.D.; Yes, you can “put words
together,” but not in an interesting
fashion... .F.R.J.: Whenever we get
a story that begins “One hundred and
ten degrees in the shade and fifty
miles to the nearest waterhole ’ we
always mdke for the nearest pub.
•.. .M.G.: Will forgive you if you
will sign a pledge to write no more
stories of that description R.W.C.:
It got away to a bad start and
finished in a muddle PLS.:
Where in Australia do they conduct
feuds of that nature? RD.B.: Not
for us, but there are dailies in Syd-
ney that buy that class of story.
D.F.C.: We have been cornered
by that club bore before... .E.V.:
It slowly dawned on us that the use
of such phrases as “before one could
say Jack Robinson,” “on the spur
of the moment,” “in the twinkling
of an eye,” “at one fell swoop,
“in less than no time,” etc., denoted
that your hero was not one to let_ tne
grass grow under his feet R.O U-
A literary starveling E.Mcly
“Why? Wherefore? Whence? We
can answer the third question, u
went back by return post.


m
SURROUND
YOUR FIRESIDE
WITH BEAUTY
AT SURPRISINGLY
LOW COST
DESIGN: No. 8: HEIGHT: 37J"*
WIDTH: 6'6i"; PRICE (at works):
£l2/18/6
Add the finishing touch to your living-room.
Instal a ceramic glazed buff-white Terra Cotta
Surround; designs are readily available for open
and gas fires and "Kosi”, "Wonderheat and
“Warmray" stoves.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, or write to
Wunderlich Limited, Box 474, G.P.O Sydney, for
illustrated booklet of designs and fixing details.
T IC
Fireplace surrounds
OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
Australian Historical Sketches
Exit John Chinaman
By M. H. ELLIS
IT is singular that, while
Eureka Stockade bulks so
largely in Australian story,
the affair of Lambing Flat
is almost forgotten. It happened
six years after Eureka. It in-
volved events which might have
been just as serious as those at
Ballarat, or more serious if John
Chinaman had been a belligerent
fellow.
There were at the Flat as
many threats and as much swear-
ing and as much sweating by the
unfortunate Southern Patrol of
the Mounted Police as anywhere
in history.
The Southern Patrol was a
sore-tried force, but also a
smart one. Its commander,
Captain Zouch, had come to
Australia with the King’s Own
(Fourth Foot), Sir Richard
Bourke’s Regiment, along with
that Governor. He forsook this
crack regiment of infantry to
command the troopers, with
headquarters at Goulburn, the
very heart of trouble on the
roads and on the new goldfields,
which were in roaring boom in
the first year of the ’sixties.
His police affected a dress
similar to the 13 th Light
Dragoons. In full rig their blue
trousers with white-braid seams,
tight shell jacket with red fac-
ings and white collar-strap, their
glazed cartouche-box on a
gleaming crossbelt, attracted the
eye of every girl around. And
carbine, pistols and cavalry
swords in white slings made
posses look ferocious.
This garb, however, was
strictly intended for the capture
of the ladies. When after bush-
rangers members of the corps
affected blue cavalry overalls
without a side-stripe, a capacious
blue double-breasted jacket with-
out facings, a pillbox cap or
cabbage-tree, highboots with
ferocious spurs, a carbine and a
pistol. Those whose whiskers
were not mature enough for ver-
min to get tangled in added a
green fly-veil.
They rode tremendous horses,
none less than 17 hands, which
was just as well, for, beside the
load of whisker and man, horses
carried heavy military saddles
with horns and pistol-holsters,
and farrier’s outfits, a valise and
a cloak. You could hear the
force coming for miles off, for
everything about them must
have jingled, and their equip-
ment was worth 10 pounds of
lead to any bushranger in a race
through the timber.
They had become a pretty
tough lot by the early ’sixties,
though slightly long in the
tooth, since they were mainly
retired footsloggers. But they
cleaned-up the mob of miners at
Jembaicumbene and they re-
stored peace at Kiandra, though
not before reserves had come up
from Sydney.
Suddenly the trouble broke
out on Lambing Flat —in the
Christmas month of 1860. It
was a new rush which had not
been quite sorted out. It was
not easy to get at. The usual
rag-tag of ex-convicts and other
ruffians was there. Indeed, 5000
or so of all sorts were scattered
around in rather loose formation
in tents, humpies, and even huts.
The rum was as bad as usual,
and as dear, and it did not look
for the moment that there was
enough gold to make every-
body’s fortune.
Then the Chinamen looked in
in quantity. They had become a
trouble on every goldfield and
were already heavily legislated
against in other States. They
selected a salubrious locality
called Tipperary Gully for their
camping-ground, right on the
edge of the white camp. They
wore their usual loose clothing
and lived on their usual smell-
of-an-oil-rag. Their pigtails
hung down, a temptation to
everybody with a bottle in him.
And they suffered from the two
great Chinese qualities which
make the race hated whenever
it competes with the white man:
they worked too hard and they
worked too diligently.
While dinkum miners were sit-
ting round the keg speculating
whether the nugget was at the
bottom of the wash or whether
the new hole would yield
7oz. sdwt. to the pan or only
7oz. 4dwt. s Ah Fat and Ah Sam
were to be found digging like
moles in spring. Their voices
rose like those of a million
galahs. Law-abiding, toiling Ah
Fat was a very model of the
honest laborer.
One night it happened. There
was a hoarse Irish yell. Into
Tipperary Gully, led, as at
Eureka, by mad Hibernians and
foreigners, a gallant army surged
to carry out the resolution of the
Miners’ Protective League to
clear Ah Fat out. And Ah Fat
cleared. Even the Chinese
Labor Corps of France in the
1914-18 war did not attempt to
dispute the times put up Spy their
compatriots when charged by a
thousand wild miners in 1860.
Leaving camps, huts, gold, rice,
joss-sticks—and pigtails if they
were not fast enough—the dis-
creet Celestials put as much dis-
tance between themselves and
their attackers as the human leg
could compass.
Bullets screeched round their
heads, and as they looked back
squawking in terror they saw
fires burst out as their perishable
possessions went up in flame.
Everything they had, including
their gold, was gone, and only
the surprising aptitude they had
shown for getting quickly off the
mark was responsible for the
fact that they were not “gone”
as well, for a good many of their
assailants were mad with drink
and rage.
Into the scene, of course, the
Mounted Police, under Sergeant
Saunderson, soon obtruded
themselves. They were a tiny
force based on a strong stock-
ade with a small wooden lock-up
in the middle of it. A trooper
was sent off at the gallop for
reinforcements, but the sergeant
did not wait till they arrived
under Captain Zouch, along with
Mr. Griffin, the Gold Commis-
sioner, before going out and
capturing three of the ring-
leaders in the attack and putting
them into the lock-up, a proceed-
ing rendered possible only be-
cause most of the miners were
celebrating the great victory
of the White Australia policy.
+ +
As they sobered-up the com-
plexion of affairs changed.
The police were put on the alert
about eight o’clock on a fateful
night by sounds of revelry from
the rough streets of the township.
And presently the band was
heard, somewhat the worse for
wear, coming slowly towards the
stockade and playing “Garry-
owen”:
We are the boys that take delight in
Smashing the lamps when the gas is
lighting;
And through the streets well all go
fighting
For Garryowen and Glory.
On the heels of the band came
nearly 3000 indignant miners,
variously accoutred, most of
them promising to burn the
stockade down, a promise which,
it seemed, they could carry out,
since there were only 45 mounted
troopers with sword, carbine and
pistol and about the same num-
bers of foot-police with carbines
and pistols. The footmen were
drawn-up on the left-front of
the stockade, screened by 15
troopers, while 30 troopers in
squadron-order on the right
wing and front proudly tried to
manage 18-hand horses unac-
customed to bands, together
with three kinds of weapons.
Having approached the stock-
ade, the band was silenced, and
the rebel commanders, as they
apparently considered them-
selves, demanded that their im-
prisoned ringleaders should be
released. Captain Zouch re-
fused, and he and the Gold
Commissioner did their best to
persuade the mob to go home.
At last sufficient quiet was
restored for a parley, as the
result of which the spokesmen
of the mob were allowed to visit
the three captives and assure
themselves that they were sound
in wind and limb, what time the
crowd shouted its aspirations,
and rougher elements adjured
somebody to “put a firestick to
the blanky thing and smoke the
coppers out.”
As this seemed likely to pro-
duce action, Mr. Griffin mur-
mured over such words of the
Riot Act as he could remember
and Captain Zouch ordered Sub-
Inspector McLerie to sound the
advance.
Down thundered the main
division of troopers upon the
crowd, its swords drawn. Be :
hind came the foot-police firing
like billy-oh. An onlooker once
told the writer that he was
deeply sorry that at this stage
the Chinese had fled already,
since a race between them and
their opponents, who were now
lighting out in the direction of
Burrangong Creek, would have
been the event of the season.
The speed increased every
time the foot-police in the rear,
some of whom had regained
their old Army form and seemed
convinced that they were at
Waterloo, emptied their carbines,
which had a blast like a saluting-
gun and a kick like a mule.
The pursued, in fact, were
pretty well winded by the time
Captain Zouch completed his
operation, which he was con-
ducting strictly according to
military Cocker, by ordering his
light division to charge under
Sergeant-Major Stevenson. And
though in the darkness which
now fell the miners returned to
the attack they were beaten off.
Piccaninny-daylight saw the
fidd temporarily won by the gal-
lant troopers. Eight miners lay
dead. Many wounded by
bayonets and gunfire lay scat-
tered round the landscape, a
sight to raise their comrades’
wrath anew next morning and
to provoke a really serious and
organised attempt on the
stockade.
Every .fightable man in the
town paraded for that event.
Arms and ammunition were
secured in quantity. Settlers in
the surrounding country fled to
the hills. Captain Zouch went
with his prisoners to Yass and
sent a hurried cry for help to
Sydney, where the Colonial Sec-
retary, Mr. Cowper, known to
his enemies as “Slippery
Charlie,” looked even more
slippery than usual as he
gathered together a young army
of soldiers and the bluejackets
of H.M.S. Fawn and set them
on the road to Lambing Flat.
They arrived too late to pre-
vent the police-stockade being
burned down, though the garri-
son troopers very wisely decided
not to burn with it. But their
arrival cowed the rioters —the
Navy naturally claimed that its
appearance was responsible.
Good, of course, came out of
evil, for the very excellent
Police Act of 1862, which put
the Police Force of N. S. Wales
on a modern basis and laid the
foundation of generations of
creditable administration under
great difficulty, followed.
It did not, however, settle the
Chinese question. Various legis-
lation was passed and repealed at
intervals, and the Chinese ques-
tion died until the gold dis-
coveries of N. Queensland in the
’seventies revived the influx. In
the next decade Ah Fat and
Fong Tsz continued to drift
into the country until even
in carefree Sydney, in the
centenary year of 1888, the
citizens were alarmed to find as
many as four and five vessels
with complements of bland
Oriental immigrants infesting the
harbor.
The citizenry showed their dis-
pleasure at this invasion by hold-
ing meetings up to 40,000 in
strength, presided over by the
Mayor, who also led a large,
noisy and disorderly deputation
to Parliament House, where it
behaved with such violence that
“it was almost by a miracle that
they did not invade this place
and drive honorable gentlemen
from their seats.”
+ . +
In all colonies the problem
was a live one which a confer-
ence of colonial authorities failed
to solve. Chinese diplomacy
got to work on the Imperial
Government. The air was full of
protest, and Sir Henry Parkes,
wily as always in such a situa-
tion, while other Colonial Gov-
ernments took milder measures,
had a bill drafted which left
Peking speechless in the face of
his logic. Solomon could have
done no better, for all his legis-
lation set out to effect was to
place Chinese henceforward oh
the same basis as Englishmen.
The measure copied the pro-
visions of the Treaty of 1848
which allowed British subjects to
live for the purpose of trading in
prescribed areas in five Chinese
treaty ports. Sir Henry pro-
posed to set apart five cities
where Sons of Heaven might do
likewise. In China no British
subject could travel without a
passport; he proposed to do
exactly the same to Chinese
who wished to poke a speculative
or exploratory nose outside the
the new treaty ports. Sir Henry
declared that he “could not see
how any British Treaty obliga-
tion could be violated so long as
we extended to our respected
brethren of the Chinese Empire
precisely the same class of rights
which they extend to us.” What
, (said he) “was good for the
British goose was good also for
the Chinese gander.” Those
Chinese already resident would
enjoy the same rights as Aus-
tralians, with one exception ; but
newcomers would be affected by
the new law.
The real tit-for-tat provision
was the “exception” which would
affect the old Chinese residents.
It was justified by the laws of
China:
British subjects are not allowed to
engage in mining in China, and, fol-
lowing that example and extending
to Chinese the same rights, we forbid
them to engage in mining pursuits in
this country.
The Opposition, headed by
Dibbs, tried to kill the bill in the
interests of Chinese cheap labor.
Dibbs declared that the “Govern-
ment had acted worse than any
bushranger who had ever scoured
the roads of N. S. Wales,” exer-
cised its power “in a brutal
manner on a harmless lot of
people,” and he added that “the
working-classes would curse Sir
Henry” living and dead for hav-
ing outraged the country. The
Legislative Council struck out
the that dealt with
already-resident Chinese, but
otherwise the bill, as it applied
to future immigration of
Celestials, passed, and its pro-
visions worked very well.
Even the resident Chinese
laughed happily at it, for it shut
off future Oriental competition
and gave them a monopoly of
the kinds of business they favor.
The Chinese miner didn’t care,
for the days of alluvial mining
were over in N. S. Wales, and
elsewhere John was cleaning up
most of the last leaders worth
his while. Today on such fields
as the Limmen River (N.T.) it is
impossible to find a bit of wash,
much less a bit of alluvial gold,
where John Chinaman has
passed.
Even Binghi soon ceased to
have any regrets. Of yore round
Cape York mid the Gulf he was
wont to dine off a pair of
succulent Chinese feet, but the
Queensland Government was
now looking after his rations,
having frowned, for some
mysterious reason, on his ideas
about diet,
When_ Federation came the
; Immigration Bill was easier to
pass than Parkes’s and early
N. S. Wales, Victorian and S.
, Australian measures had been.
. It provided one of the most
; notable and able debates ever
| heard in the Federal Parliament.
, It is only now, under the influ-
L ence of the long-haired United
, Nations Organisation and
, adolescent politicians, that the
j real equities of White Australia
! are forgotten. Communist
countries in particular inveigh
against it, and have the sympathy
. of the local “Reds” and “Parlor-
; Pinks” and even of sections of
the Press.
; But Parkes’s principles still
; stand. White Australia will con-
: tinue to live as a fact so long as
; Australian Governments insist
• on equality of treatment for their
; own nationals in the countries
[ which most complain of the
■ restrictions on entry to this
; country.


SPORTING NOTIONS
The racing scene makes many
rapid changes. It was stated on
this page last week that three
outsiders had sent hundreds of
Canterbury punters on their way
homewards long before the last
race was to be decided, but, it
was added, “the same old faces
will be found round the book-
makers’ stands next Saturday.”
They were, and there appeared
to be more of them. And this
time they stayed till the close of
the day’s racing because they
had the bookmakers’, money to
play with.
To their good content Satur-
day’s Canterbury punters saw
four favorites and two equal-
first fancies win in six of
the seven events, and they
finished with a hot favorite.
White Signal. It was one of the
worst days in recent times for
bookmakers, but they will be
on their stands again next Satur-
day, and maybe Randwick
results will go their way, and
they’ll recover quite a lot of
money temporarily “lent” to
punters.
On the other hand, fielders at
Canterbury who operated on
Flemington events left the course
with bulging bags. At Fleming-
ton itself the books experienced
a royal day— not one favorite
successful in six events. Win-
ners included Petrograd at 66 to
1, Great Mark at 25 to 1 and
Jetha at 14 to 1.
Crack Sydney horseman Bill
Cook is riding as well as at any
time during his long career in
the saddle; this season he’s ex-
periencing, in particular, a grand
run on two-yew-olds. He has
a formidable rival in George
Moore, who ha« had greater
opportunities because he does
the riding for the powerful
Tommy Smith stably and Smith
has a big team of two-year-olds
in work. Moore has piloted 10
two-year-old winners in the
Sydney metropolitan area, and
has also been successful on
juveniles at other tracks. His
Sydney winners have been: Sea-
craft (3), Love To AH (2), Con-
stant Wonder (2), Marino, Even-
ing Belle and Golden AppJe.
Cook, at Canterbury, brought
his two-year-old winning tally to
nine by scoring on Gay Vista,
on which he had previously won
two races. Cook’s other juvenile
winners have been Mercy (2),
Royal Stream, Begum' St. Brigid
and Reflected Glory.
One of the most improved
three-year-old gallopers in Syd-
ney is Stirrup Cup, raced by
D. G. and P. G. Tait and trained
by successful Randwick mentor
Fil Allotta. The chestnut colt
has a lot of white about him and
is a free galloper with an easy
action. He is easily observed in a
field. Bred by D. G. Tait, the
colt was got by Wayside Inn
(imp.) from Rose,Marie, a mare
bred ip 1944 by Midstream (imp.)
from Rose Mignon by Heroic
from Oboe (imp.) by Golden
Orb.
Surprising feature of the bet-
ting on the Canterbury Second
Welter, which Stirrup Cup won
in easy fashion, was an easing of
his price from 6 to 4 to 5 to 2,
but that was due to a plunge on
the former Queenslander Veni-
dis, who came from a rearward
position to gain third money.
Stirrup Cup has now won three
successive events and has been
placed at his last six starts —four
wins and two seconds. He won his
first race last September. Should
he continue his excellent form,
though it has been only in
modest company so far, he will
get his chance in the A.J.C. Don-
caster, in which he is weighted
at 7.5.
Lord Crag, who had had only
one unplaced run In six months,
started a 2-to-l favorite for the
First Welter Handicap at Can-
terbury and won cleverly from
the less-fancied Hindostan, with
the unlucky Foreign Exchange
third. Most likely the reason for
such solid support was Lord
Crag’s fast half-mile barrier-trial
win at Moorefield earlier in the
week. Keen racing enthusiasts
keep tag of the barrier trials as
well as a record of newspaper
photographs of each event taken
at the half-mile and at the finish.
It helps them to assess prospects,
as does close observance of bet-
ting moves.
• • • •
First Chapter, winner of the
A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate, will be in
Melbourne next week for the
£4OOO V.R.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes and other well-endowed
two-year-old events. He will fly
there with stablemate Captain
Theo, winner of last Saturday’s
Canterbury Park Handicap in
good style.
Melbourne’s best filly, Surang,
ran away with the Criterion
Handicap at Flemington last
Saturday. She is expected to
fully test First Chapter and any
other Sydney candidate, includ-
ing the brilliant and unbeaten
Love To All. Over the years
quite a number of fillies have
won the Flemington Sires’ Pro-
duce, including True Course,
Delina, Simmering, All Love
and Trueness. • Lastnamed pair
were Sydney-owned, Both were
ridden by Ted Bartle, who nowa-
days watches the racing from
official enclosures.
At this time of the year, lead-
ing up to the important autumn
carnivals, three-year-olds fre-
quently create surprises, stables
and punters being caught quite
unprepared for a win. This
apparently happened at Fleming-
ton on Saturday when Petrograd,
a candidate for the St. Legers,
beat 33 other three-year-olds in
the Oramoo Handicap starting at
66 to 1, with 80’s available in
parts of the betting-ring. It was
just another case of a trainer
not expecting a win because he
suspected his galloper was not
quite ready to reveal best form.
Petrograd, who had shaped
poorly in the A.J.C. Derby, is
trained by J. P. Mulcahy, who
had given the colt only one
gallop since he had resumed
after a spell. This Flemington ex-
perience, of course, happens with
horses of all ages.
With doubles betting on the
A.J.C. Doncaster and Sydney
Cup restricted to racecourses, the
volume of business on this year’s
double will be a fraction only
of the sum invested on the same
races last April. Dalray, hot
favorite for the Cup, was no
sooner off the boat from New
Zealand than he was backed to
win the rich two-miler, but the
price accepted by punters, big
and small, seemed a bit under
the odds with the race still about
seven weeks distant. It was
shorter than the starting-price of
Dalray in the Cup last April,
when outsider Opulent beat him
a head, with Taressa third.
Dalray will show in Mel-
bourne whether he’s as good as
in the spring. Wise puhters
should await his first race, be-
cause the price now available
about him for the Sydney Cup
does not at this stage look
a good betting proposition.
Carioca and Perth’s champion.
Raconteur, are equal favorites
for the Doncaster, with High
Law, Hydrogen and Tarien all
well fancied. Advocate and
Carioca are the only horses
asked for in the Cup outside
Dalray.
Rosebery (Sydney) trainer
Jack Morgan is making a habit
of winning races by 15 lengths.
Headstockman did the trick in
the Queensland Derby, and his
two-year-old colt Lucky Stride
won the Newcastle Maiden
Juvenile on Saturday by a simi-
lar margin. Lucky Stride, a
speedy type, is the second of
Temeraire’s progeny to win on
successive Saturdays, Cynosure
“There he goes again—after fish-heads for soup.”
at Canterbury being the other.
Like Lucky Stride she is a most
promising galloper. The New-
castle winner, raced by Gundagai
sportsman T. H. Boynton, had
shown exceptional pace in a
couple of prior races, and had
won a barrier-trial by more than
a dozen lengths. No wonder he
started at 3 to 1 on in the weak
northern field. Tyldesley, dam
of Lucky Stride, didn’t race.
She is a sister to former speedy
gallopex Tactician, and is by
Titan (imp.) from Desert Lily.
Later on Morgan will have a
younger brother to Lucky Stride
in his team.
Headstockman, by the way, is
back in slow work after a brief
spell, during which hfe put on a
lot of condition. He is likely
to be set for the £12,000 Bris-
bane Cup, to be run early in
May.
Many English owners are
racing for purses of their own
subscriptions, which for long has
been a sore point with men who
supply the necessary cash to help
keep the Turf thriving. In
France turf authorities plough
back into the racing and breed-
ing industry, in some form or
other, part of the vast sums
which go to betting, while here
in Australia portion of the
totalisator holding is retained by
clubs —not enough according to
various executives. Govern-
ments get the lion’s share. Hun-
dreds of thousands of pounds in
the aggregate are lost to racing
by the licensing of hundreds of
bookmakers, but racing would
probably be a dull show with-
out the fielders. This, of course,
is a moot point; New Zealand
race - clubs provide handsome
prizemoney, and the Dominion
has no bookmakers. Far too
much money goes out of Aus-
tralian racing never to return
to it.
From ppw on the best horses
will be appearing in races lead-
ing up to the Melbourne, Sydney
and Brisbane autumn carnivals.
V.A.T.C. (Caulfield) starts the
ball rolling later this month, fol-
lowed by the V.R.C. at Fleming-
ton. Several of the outstanding
performers at these Melbourne
meetings will then transfer to
Sydney, and some will go on to
Brisbane, where Sydney stables
also will be strongly represented,.
New Zealand, too, is sending its
quota,of class gallopers, chief
among them Dalray. It will
interest to see how Hydrogen
shapes this autumn. He will be
in Melbourne for the weight-for-
age contests, in which he will be
ridden by Darby Munro. First
engagement will be the V.R.C.
Ercildoune Stakes on March 7 ;
he will find strong opposition
from the southerners and other
visiting top-rankers.
England’s champion racehorse,
Tulyar, owned by the Aga Khan,
has been sold to the Irish
National Stud for the record
price of £250,000. On English
tracks alone last year Tulyar
earned £76,000 for his owner.
and the Aga Khan was happy to
sell his champion to British
breeders. He had declined an
American offer much higher than
the price realised, but he wanted
to keep Tulyar in the British
Isles. He previously sold three
Derby-winners, Blenheim, Bar-
ham and Mahmoud, to Ameri-
can thoroughbred breeders.
These stallions made a name for
themselves at American studs.
Any racecourse where only
three and four horses compete
in most of the races will never
prove successful, and the time
seems not far distant when
Wyong or any similar club which
can muster only 31 starters from
94 acceptors will be a memory.
While Wyong had only 31
starters in six races —one event
had to be abandoned —there
were 107 runners in Moorefield
barrier-trials the following day.
On top of that, 97 acceptors were
declared for the Canterbury fix-
ture on Saturday last from 213
nominations. Now, what do
owners want? They scream their
heads off about insufficient prize-
money and lack of racing oppor-
tunities, yet on race-day (Wyong)
and acceptance-day (Canterbury)
they make wholesale scratchings.
It doesn’t make racing sense.
“S.L.’*; Glad to see Adelaide
Racing Club includes useful
information in racebooks (B.
14/l/’53). Queensland Turf
Club also includes photo-
finishes of each race at its
previous meeting. The Q.T.C.
books are thumb-indexed with
cut-out sections at page margins,
though not so on Tatt’s Club
days. 8.A.T.C., however, hasn’t
either photos or index for
Doomben or Albion Park.
Tatt’s books feature a useful
analysis. At the foot of each
race the horses are repeated in
racebook order showing placings
at last three starts, Racebooks
now cost Is. 6d.
* * * *
For the fourth time in the
five Tests Hassett won the toss,
and the Australian bats again
took advantage of it —in the last
three Tests Australia’s,, first-
innings totals have been 443, 530
and 520. So much for those who
have been deploring our lack of
batting strength.
Harvey hit-up his fourth
century in this series, his eighth
in all against S. Africa; having
reached 190 in the third Test, he
made sure of a double-century
this time (205). Morris, back to
top form, sacrificed his innings
after a bad call from Harvey
when his score was one short of
a hundred. Young Craig, in his
first Test (Hole was deputed to
take out the drinks), batted
* brightly for 53. For S. Africa,
Tayfield’s three wickets made his
tally for the series 27, a record
for a Springbok bowler in a
season’s Australia -v. - S’Africa
Tests.
S. Africa treated its match
with Vic. mainly as a means of
getting some batting-practice—
a result became almost impos-
sible when rain just about
washed out the second day’s
play. One visitor who had a
good share of the willow-wield-
ing exercise was Keith (century
in both digs); another century-
maker was Innes. For Vic., Neil
Harvey (69) brought up his 1000
runs for the year, the first Aus-
tralian to get ’em this year. S.
Africa 401 (Keith 111, Innes 109,
Norton 58) and 228 (Keith 113
n. 0., Cheetham 74; Johnston
4- Vic. 260 (Harvey 69,
Loxton 60; Mansell 6-53) and
0-21.
In an even game S. Aus. beat
Queensland by 33 runs on the
first innings. With a bit longer
to go the northerners may have
won ; but, as it was, and having
now played all their Shield
games, they went through with-
out a win. Still, as they’ve un-
earthed several promising young-
sters (Ron Archer, Bratchford,
Burge and Flynn), they should
do better next season. S. Aus.
355 (Dansie 82, Pinch 74,
Ridings 61 ; Flynn 7-127) and
180 (Favell 98; Raymer 4-46,
Flynn 4-91); Q. 322 (Bratchford
143, Burge 54 ; Noblet 4-82) and
5- (Noblet 4-28).
N.S.W. v. S. Australia, rain-
interrupted, didn’t get going
properly till the second day.
N.S.W.’s first batsmen were
pretty slow, brightest knock Clive
Johnston’s 65. Opener Ron
Briggs, selected only when
Morris is away for the Tests, fol-
lowed a 121 against W.A. and
80 against Vic. with a solid 83.
Briggs has perhaps now earned a
regular place in the State side.
* * * *
Having outpointed Ambrose
Palmer’s protege, Van Woods, in
a tough 12-rounder at Albury
the previous night, Ray Coleman
(9.24-) could not unloosen him-
self when he clashed with Ken
Wenman {9.l}) at Leichhardt.
Apparently muscle-bound, he
couldn’t cope with Wenman’s
speed, and Wenman won the
first six rounds by a wide margin.
Throughout these sessions one
or the other made use of almost
every foul known to boxing, and
when the Coleman cranium
opened Wenman’s right eye-
brow in round seven the
ref. lost control, and soon
after the eighth started threw
both arms in the air as if declar-
ing the contest no fight. He said
afterwards that he had disquali-
fied both scrappers for refusing
to obey the rules. Coleman and
Wenman then tore into each
other unofficially, to the loud joy
of thd customers, till the seconds
secured strangleholds on their
proteges and vice versa, where-
upon hostilities were adjourned
sine die, God Save the Queen.
RACIAL
“The world has forgotten that
breeding counts. Men should take
a leaf out of the Stud Book and study
it,” says an ethnologist.
Renounce the racebook, throw
form-guides away.
Forget the grave significance
of weight.
Don’t be misled by record
* times; today
Fast tracks the old-time figures
decimate.
Instead, peruse the Stud Book;
mighty tome
Which traces blood-lines back
to august founts.
And get this fact fixed firmly in
your dome —
That ultimately birth or breed-
ing counts.
Contrast this rule of life; there
still remains,
In fields as devious as wars and
games.
The truth that blue-bloods often
run up lanes
While culls come home with-
out support or names !
N-S.W.
P.O.M.C.


Care to Try Yourself on Any of These?
Tough Men’s
Games
By LES SUCH
JT\ GROUP of men sit in
ry the vestibule of a country
(_ I pub picking their teeth
after the midday meal.
A teamster, a bullocky, a timber-
getter, a scrub-faller, a couple of
cane-cutters and the publican.
Small-talk has run out. The
topics of horseracing and the
coming cane - season. are
exhausted, and nobody suggests
a game of coon-can—a bob in
and the winner shouts. It’s wet
outside and too soon after
dinner to start drinking, so it
looks like a general move very
soon to go upstairs, flop on the
bed and read the papers.
Suddenly one of the tooth-
pickers eases himself from his
chair, walks down two steps to
the footpath which is sheltered
from the tropic rain by the over-
hanging balcony of the pub,
picks up a stick and draws a line
in the dirt.
They all watch him, know-
ing very well what’s coming.
Nobody says a word as he then
squats on the line and reaches
out with one hand on the ground
and the other extending a match-
box —both toes scrupulously on
the line.
With a heave he comes back
behind the line without shifting
his feet or dragging his hand,
leaving the matchbox standing
on end some eight feet from the
line. He gets to his feet, brushing
the dirt from his palms, and
commences to roll a smoke.
Tins of finecut are pulled from
pockets and all commence to roll
a smoke except the publican,
who heaves his bulk from the
chair and says, “Is that your
best. Nugget? Have a look at
this! ”
The publican toes the line in
the dirt, reaches out experi-
mentally, with his right hand
taking half the weight of his
body each time, and eases back
in a squatting position on the
line. When he gets the range he
pushes the matchbox a half-inch
forward with his left hand,
fingers extended. Then, with
many grunts, he pushes himself
back behind the line with his
right hand and straightens up.
One by one they take turn at
the contest, some nearly reaching
the matchbox, others pushing it
a little farther, only to be dis-
qualified through being unable
to get back behind the line with-
out shifting feet or dragging the
hand.
Then comes Nugget’s turn
again. And to show he was just
funning he reaches out with his
right hand, per-
forms a one-arm
bodypress and,
flinging his legs
straight behind,
pushes the
matchbox another
three inches
forward. Then,
toeing the line
once more, he heaves himself
back and straightens up.
He’s a mighty man! And he’s
started something.
In a short while a crowd
gathers, participants and on-
lookers. One game of strength
and agility leads to another, and
a small impromptu sports-
meeting of a peculiar kind will
continue for the remainder of the
afternoon.
Wherever hard - manual
workers forgather in any part
of the world you’ll always
find games of strength and
endurance. I believe a lot
of the following examples
are peculiar to Australia;
some may have their origin in
the Old Country or elsewhere.
Most people know the inter-
national one of two men at a
table elbow-to-elbow with hands
clasped, each endeavoring to
force the other’s arm down, and
most bush people
have seen the scratch-
pull, or two-man tug-
o’-war, in which you
sit facing your
opponent, feet to-
gether, gripping a
short stick (the rack-
stick it’s called in
Queensland), and then
pull until one of you leaves
the floor.
Here are some others, though
for the most part I don’t know
what they are called.
Nugget again takes the lead.
He is but 5.5 high, but has a
74in. reach and shoulders like an
ox. He places the matchbox on
the ground between his feet, then
squats on his haunches with
palms each side of the matchbox.
Easing his weight on to his
hands, he raises his feet clear off
the ground and picks the box up
in his mouth.
Sounds simple, looks simple,
but they all try it one by one,
and not a few come out of it
with a skinned nose.
• Again the matchbox. Nugget
bends and spreads his right hand,
the little finger touching the
matchbox. He plages his left
hand behind his back, straightens
his body, taking the rest of his
weight on his boot-toes, bends
his right arm, and again picks up
the matchbox in his mouth.
Simple for the stage acrobat, but
for the ordinary man
impossible!
Now we’ll gloss over a few
tricks, like going down on your
hgel with one leg extended and
coming up again arms extended.
Or the frog-jump—just jumping
exactly like a frog, from feet to
hands, hands to feet—see how
far you can go from the mark.
Let’s get on to some of the
hardier variety.
The bull-pull is a good one if
you think you have a strong
neck. You get down on all fours
with your opponent, foreheads
touching. Someone adjusts a
strong belt around your
necks and draws a line be-
tween you. At the signal
you pull backwards. And
you don’t duck your head
and slip the harness or some-
one will call you a dingo.
Then the one that’s right up
your alley if you pride yourself
on your two inches of skull.
You stand facing the wall, hands
behind your back, then let your-
self forward without shifting
your feet until your melon bangs
on the wall. Then you push back
with your head and come up-
right without shifting your feet.
A line is drawn and the next
bloke has to beat it by standing
farther back. It’s worth-while
because it feels so good when
you stop.
Chinese-wrestling next. You
lie on your back, end-for-end
with the other bloke, elbows
linked. The ref. says “One,” and
you both raise your right leg,
then drop it. The ref. says
“Two,” and you do it again.
When he says “Now,” you do
the sarqe, but this time connect
and try to throw the other man
ten feet away, literally heels-
over-head.
You’d think the man with the
long legs would have the advan-
tage in that one, but, as in most
of these things, there’s a knack.
And Nugget has it. He’ll keep
his leg straight and a little his
way, and he has such a grip of
the ground with his shoulders
and palms that he takes a lot of
shifting . . ,
When it gets dark you all go
in for a drink and a feed and
the fun is continued in the parlor.
Nugget gets three chairs and
lies across them. Then picks up
the middle one and passes it over
his body, which is suspended be-
tween head and heels. It’s child’s-
play to him —he could probably
do it with a chair made of lead.
But you have a go with ordinary
bentwood chairs!
By this time everyone is think-
ing-up his particular parlor trick.
Lofty picks up a large round
table in his teeth and swings it
around his head.
Another lantern-jawed char-
acter picks up a heavy chair also
in his teeth and holds it sticking
straight out from his face.
The grog begins to flow, and
the cove who tries to hang by his
toes from the top of the door
falls and busts his nose, and very
soon all the bar-tricks start:
peanuts in everyone’s beer, the
first nut that rises that man
shouts, and so forth.
It’s all crazy—but it passes the
time in the bush.
Accent Incident
By Stephen Kelen
FOR me to pass as a dinkum
Australian shouldn’t be
difficult. I’m tall
enough; have a sort of an
oval face; dress, drink, swear
and gamble just like any other
native-born citizen ; spent seven
years in the A.1.F.; married a
girl whose great-grandfather
came out here from Ireland;
and probably speak better
English than the average man.
So, well, everything would be
all right—except for my accent.
Now this accent gives me away
sooner or later. Mostly I say
“vater,” instead of “water,” and
“thing” becomes “think” when
I’m not careful. This doesn’t
matter muph nowadays, when the
country is full of New People
who are trying to learn their
first three-hundred words of
but, let me tell you, it
was different during the war,
when accent incidents happened
galore.
The one I remember best was
in 1945, when I came home on
leave from New Guinea. When-
ever I now meet Bluey Corrigan,
Carpy and Slim Sullivan, my
Digger mates, for a drink or two
in the Three Apples, and there’s
a newcomer in our midst, they
just have to tell about the accent
incident at the Continental Club.
This Continental Club is a
showpiece, frequented by all
kinds of people and nation-
alities. It’s a flash joint, full of
refinements, and, of course, has
a European headwaiter, called, in
the best of traditions, Luigi,
During the war Luigi just
couldn’t do enough for the boys
in uniform. No wonder, then,
that as soon as we entered the
Continental Club he came to
meet us, rubbing his hands, smil-
ing, friendly-like and saying;
“Yell, veil, I guess a table for
the gentlemen soldiers next to
the floor would be most suitable,
eh?”
“Vonderful, ve’ll be wery
pleazed to get a table so near to
the floor,” I agreed to Luigi’s
suggestion.
Luigi looked at me sternly,
and swallowed his rising anger.
“What’s the matter? 6 Carpy
asked him jokingly. “Did you
swallow a bone, or are you
thirsty?”
In normal circumstances Luigi
would probably have smiled in
his suave, Continental way, but
as things stood at the time he
considered Carpy’s remark a
further affront to his dignity.
He turned rounds, and, his
immaculately-tailored back to us,
called out: “Dis-a way, gentle-
men.”
“What’s eating him?” Bluey
Corrigan inquired.
“Search me,” I replied. “He’s
hurt, ve must have offended
him.”
“You foreigners are all too
moody,” said old Slim, and his
remark was the limit Luigi could
take.
He turned, moustache bristling,
lips quivering with anger. He
half-lifted his right arm, then
thought better of it, and let it
fall limply.
“You speak French, monsieur,
any of you?”
It was at this moment that our
three girl-friends, who were
attending to their make-up,
closed up on us. Maybe just to
show off a bit. Slim Sullivan
decided to put the big act on.
“O la la, mais oui, oui!” he
called out in a very loud voice.
“No,” Luigi reproached him,
“you do not speak French, you
cheat. You do not speak but
English, and you make fun of
me.”
“But vhy should ve make fun
of you?” I asked innocently.
“Vhy should you make fun of
me?” Luigi threw his hands up
in sheer desperation. “Vhy
should you make fun of me?
Veil lam askink you! Vhy
should you? I am here to do
my very best for the men who
fight for my adopted country.
Because I am a naturalised Aus-
tralian, gentlemen, and I have my
votink right and all that as you
have. Maybe my accent is not so
good, eh? But I speak seven
different languages. How many
do you speak. Monsieur?” he
turned to me furiously, full of
contempt.
“Seven,” I answered.
“Seven nothink! You lie! ”
“Now listen, mate, he ain’t
lying.” Bluey Corrigan, who was
a bit irked by now with the
whole conversation, pushed him-
self, between Luigi and I.
“Now you prove it to him,
Steve ; just prove it to him,”
Luigi made a step back. He
was looking to catch the eyes of
a waiter, who could rush for the
chucker-out.
Suddenly I realised what had
angered Luigi. So, before the
strongman could appear on the
scene, I spoke to him in seven
different tongues. He was
amazed and threw up his arms
again.
“Dat is impossible!” he
exclaimed, “A Digger speak
seven different languages, and he
is not even officer! Impossible.
But why you mock me.
Monsieur?”
“I didn’t mock you. I spoke
to you the best I can.”
“But you no foreigner. You
soldier in Australian uniform.”
“My oath he isn’t, he’s just as
much an Aussie as any of us,
only he was bom elsewhere,
accidentally, like you,” Bluey
assured Luigi.
I looked at Luigi, and saw in
his friendly, affectionate face that
he had never felt closer to Aus-
tralians than at that moment


CRIPPLING RHEUMATIC MINS
quickly eased with
»
ntm
Proved by CHnical Tests and
5 years' Medical Research
• During the past five years, Dolcin has
helped countless sufferers of complaints within
the Rheumatic Groups.
Dolcin tablets give prompt relief to sufferers
from Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuritis, Lum-
bago, Fibrositis, Gout, etc. Prolonged relief
is also given because Dolcin contains sub-
stances which improve the supply of blood
and oxygen to the affected tissues.
• DOLCIN Is non-toxic.
• DOLCIN Is prescribed by the medical profession.
• DOLCIN has been a standard treatment for the past
five years.
• 1,100,000,000 tablets have been administered throughout
the world.
• DOLCIN is easy to take in tablet form.
• DOLCIN is obtainable from your chemist.
MT
tot iTTLttp***
ATlf*
»H£U^
fICA
SCIA
U Rif 15
ill
6A«5°
IP |
MSW
lO*"
tcrivE
. Eff
AUtt
rEL'
(CfflLt
«ei'
100 TABLETS FOR 12/6
DOLGIM
Informative literature on Doldn
will be sent on request to Dolcin
(Australia) Pty. Lid., Box ISS2,
G.P.0., Sydney. )
D 4.2
the name is
fl) c Godlums
the whisky is
a*v
f/X
S <*)ts
,"Distilled and
blended in Scotland
Mci/3.2
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WEST STAMINA TEST
“The Communist rulers have
a sense of time about these
things wholly unlike our own.
We tend to divide our future'
into short spans, like the two-
year life of this Congress or the
four years of a Presidential
term. They seem to think and
plan in terms of generations,
and there is, therefore, no easy,
short-run way to make them see
that their plans cannot prevail.
This means there is ahead of us
a long, hafd test of strength and
stamina.” Truman, stepping
down from the Presidency.
London “Observer” gave very
Jiigh praise to that final Truman
speech as a whole:
“It is the most serious, most
unflinching, most deeply-argued
pronouncement on the present
condition of the world that has
been heard from an active states-
man for many a year. Whoever
wants to understand the chal-
lenge of our times will find him-
self in future years coming back
to this plain and cogent treatise.”
Quoting the further Truman
statement, “As we continue to
confound Soviet expectations, as
our world grows stronger, more
united, more attractive to men
on both sides of the Iron Cur-
tain, then inevitably there will
come a time of change within
the Communist world,” the
“Observer” questioned:
“But has the Western world
the stamina to win such a con-
test of endurance?... How can
we Western peoples, essentially
sprinters by temperament, join a
marathon race with the Russian
stayers and hope to win?.. .Are
free men stronger than despots
and their flock? Historically, it
is a moot point. But it remains
true that the present contest be-
tween the Kremlin and the West
is in the last resort a contest be-
tween a pessimistic and an opti-
mistic view of human nature.
“Marshal Stalin’s philosophy,
manifest in his every action, is
that man is a weak and con-
temptible creature, who must be
penned in, fed with lies and
ruled with an iron hand, if he is
not to destroy himself and his
State through his own silliness,
cowardice, stupidity and short-
sighted selfishness. There is
much that is plausible in this
philosophy, except that it makes
no allowance for the fact that
the ruling despot is also only a
man.
“Our Western societies are
staking their existence on the
opposite thesis: that man in the
mass, if left free, will on the
whole and despite many weak-
nesses, waverings and backslid-
ings, act decently, bravely.
sensibly and honorably; that
his elected rulers will on the
whole be representative of what
is good in their electors ; and
that to put individual failings
under iron discipline is far more
weakening to a country than to
allow free expression to indi-
vidual gifts and energies.”
So the question now is
whether this creed will prove to
the West an eventually trium-
phant force or a fatal handicap
in the stamina contest. More
THE CARROT
London “Daily Mail”
than one very searching test will
have to be survived in this pre-
sent year, beginning with settl-
ing the final shape of the Euro-
pean Defence Community,
which French doubts, in particu-
lar, have postponed, to say the
least.
In his recent indicating of
future U.S. foreign policy, Sec-
retary of State Dulles spoke
some of his most significant
words on this very point. In
almost direct statement, he
warned France that, failing rati-
fication soon of the E.D.C.
treaty, American policy, which
has counted heavily on Western
European unity, with the E.D.C.
as its military strength, would
have to change.
It seems beyond question that
that can have only one mean-
ing—one unlikely to be lost on
French ears —that the alterna-
tive to the E.D.C. must be a full-
fledged German Army, with U.S.
backing.
In what “New York Times”
designated “an extraordinary
passage,” President Eisenhower
in his first Presidential pro-
nouncement expressed U.S. im-
patience over the delays.
“We ask,” he said, “that en-
lightened and inspired leaders of
the Western nations strive with
renewed vigor to make the unity
of their peoples a reality.”
“The unity of Europe,” com-
mented “Manchester Guardian,”
“has been a favorite theme with
the President, and we may expect
him to press it with all the im-
mense resources of persuasion
now in his hands.”
And “New York Times” read
the “extraordinary passage” as
meaning that “the unification of
Europe will clearly be one of the
primary goals of the new [Eisen-
hower] Administration.”
That, of course, has been the
main mission of Secretary of
State Dulles in his visit to
Europe; and (as cabled) “New
York Times’s” diplomatic cor-
respondent has reported that, in
fact, the hesitant ones in Europe
are now being officially (though
privately) told by America: “If
you insist on the privileges of
nationalism, you must not ex-
pect us to pay the price of
nationalism.”
What must have finally exas-
perated America to the point of
issuing these blunt enough warn-
ings was the statement of
France’s latest Premier, M.
Mayer, that settlement of the
hitherto completely obdurate
Saar question must be a pre-
requisite to French agreement
on the E.D.C. That, too, was
not the only Mayer stipulation,
it and the rest amounting to at
least a verbal abandonment of
what had been the policy of eight
successive French Governments.
“If,” commented Edinburgh
“Scotsman,” “[that policy] is to
be abandoned now, and if an
attempt is to be made to reopen
negotiations for the European
Army which seemed practically
to have reached a conclusion,
the post-war structure of Wes-
tern Europe may be shaken to
its foundations,”
The “Scotsman” suggested
that Britain might give a lead,
where, however, British Gov-
ernments of both parties have
shown themselves distinctly
reluctant;
“A bold initiative by Britain
might rally the French parties
who are in favor of the Eiiro-
pean Army. Otherwise the
scheme, which is a vital and in-
tegral part of European defence
planning, may collapse through
the exigencies of French
domestic politics.”
Instead, the lead has come —
and in as direct terms as could
very well be used —from the
U.S. Even before that, respon-
sible sections of the U.S. Press
(and the British Press also) had
been pointing out what the
alternative to E.D.C. would
probably be. '
Thus, “U.S. News and World
Report,” noting these French
and other signs of the West’s
stamina failings, stated that, as
a result of the general slacken-
ing, the U.S. “will now bank
more heavily on creating a West
German Army.” It added;
“It’s to be a U.S.-equipped
Army. Equipment is all ready,
stockpiled by the U.S., for.
several German divisions. U.S.
jets are to be allocated. Plans
for barracks, command-posts,
air-bases in Western Germany
are already drawn up.
“A German Army is to be
expected whatever happens to
the treaty. The U.S. is deter-
mined to rearm West Germans
and work out some way to get
them in the team [that is, of
course, the Nato team].”
American action on those
lines, it can be taken as certain,
will begin this year—and early,
at that—if the French fail in this
first big testing of the West’s
stamina; its prospective ability
to stay the distance. Before that
"happens, however, it seems most
likely that the expectation
voiced in “Manchester
Guardian” editorial comment
will be realised:
“It would be odd though
not altogether surprising—if
French fears of Germany and
French nostalgia- for independ-
ence were in the end to lead to
the setting-up of an independent
German Army. But it may be
that, rather than allow that to
come about, France will, after
long labor, agree to the present
plans for union with some con-
solatory modifications.”
Mr. Dulles makes it quite plain
that the “labor” had better not
be too “long” in this first testing
of the West’s likely staying-
power.
Nigeria Next
Nigeria, reports Edinburgh
“Scotsman,” has been selected
as the next British possession in
Africa in which an anti-British
“liberation movement” is to be
started on the model of the Mau
Mau movement in Kenya.
Differing from those who dis-
count Moscow’s hand in the
various upheavals in Africa, the
“Scotsman” sees “Nigeria next”
signposted in the “Cominform
Journal,” one of the principal
sources of Moscow directives to
world Communist parties:
“The technique used in issuing
directives in the journal is that
orders are given in the form of
statements of fact in an attempt
to avoid the charge of interfer-
ence in the affairs of other coun-
tries.
“Following this technique the
‘Cominform Journal’ states that:
‘The question that is now upper-
most in the minds of all
Nigerians striving for the libera-
tion of their country from im-
perialism is to find the practical
steps of transforming this pers-
pective into reality. A firm lead
coming from the working-class
can relieve the pent-up energy
of the movement and give it such
a purposeful direction that, in
unity with the world anti-im-
perialist movement, it can end
British imperialist rule in
Nigeria.’ ”
On this directive the Com-
munist agents in Nigeria will
now act.
Formosa Change
Only a “bankrupt diplomacy”
(in the view of “Washington
Post”) could expect any settle-
ment in Korea which had no
reference to the other outstand-
ing problems of the Far East.
And in that view, it is" sug-
gested, lies a chance for Ike “to
demonstrate to the world that
in deed he is the man of peace
that he asseverated by word in
his Presidential campaign. That
is to say, the world must be made
to appreciate that any gamble
he might undertake is aimed at
producing a political settlement
with Communist China rather
than a military conquest,”
That would, in the general
American view, justify removing
the neutralising U.S. Seventh
Fleet from the Formosa Strait.
Flelping Chiang across to the
mainland, which is what the
European partners of the U.S.
fear, would, however, be quite
another matter.
The heart of the general Far
East issue, commented “Wash-
ington Post,” is not now Korea
but Formosa. “No responsible
American would advocate any
negotiation with Peking over
Formosa at this time. Too much
has happened to warrant any
such negotiation, too much


Commonwealth
gh
of Australia.
REGISTRATION FOR
NATIONAL SERVICE
NOTICE TO MEN ATTAINING THE AGE OF 18 TEARS
BETWEEN Ist lAN., and 3011) APRIL. 1953
Under the National Service Acts 1957, all male persons, not
exempt under the Acts from liability to register, who are
British subjects and ordinarily resident in Australia and have
attained or will attain the age of 1 8 years between Ist January,
1953, and 30th April, 1953 (both dates inclusive), ARE
REQUIRED TO REGISTER BETWEEN 9th AND 23rd
FEBRUARY, 1953.
A person who has arrived and intends to make his home In Australia is
regarded as ordinarily resident in Australia as from the time of his arrival.
A person who is absent from Australia during the period within which he
is required to register, must register within 14 days after his return.
If a person required to register is insane or so mentally or physically
Incapacitated as to be unable to register personally, the person in whose
charge he is for the time being must do so on his behalf.
Any person who is required to register and who fails to do so is liable to
the > jperia^ties ii^rescMbedBi>i undei^the ii> A ; ct2.
EXEMPTIONS
The only exemptions from liability to register are:—
(a) Persons on full-time duty with the Permanent Defence Forces,
(b) Diplomatic personnel specified in Section 18 of the Acts,
(c) Aboriginal natives of Australia including half-castes, and persons of
aboriginal extraction living as aborigines.
EARLY REGISTRATION
If a male person of 17 years of age has good reason for wishing to
commence his National Service training without waiting until he is required
to register, he may register voluntarily even though he is not 18. Further
details may be obtained from the National Service Registration Office or any
District Employment Office.
HOW TO REGISTER
Registration Forms (Forms N.S. 1) are available at all Money Order Post
Offices and District Employment Offices. Addresses of the latter offices
are in telephone directories. Detailed instructions on how to register art
in the Registration Form and the sheet CN.S. 1A) attached to it.
VN5R6.83.13
blood has been shed, too many
passions have been aroused. But
a gesture is needed of peaceful
intent.
“That could be done by chang-
ing the form of U.S. recognition
of Chiang Kai-shek in his For-
mosan hole-up—from de jure
ruler of all China to de facto
Governor of Formosa. If we
[Americans] confirm the present
fiction, if, moreover, he is
ferried across to the mainland in
our ships, if he goes with our
blessing and with our military
advisers at his elbow, we shall
never be able to get out of a
physical entanglement in China.
“If we do all this our very
survival will be imperilled, let
alone our prestige as a great
Power.
“A reorientation in our
policy on Chiang and Formosa
on these lines would not rule out
action. On the contrary, it would
pave the way for action. And
we agree that action is needed as
a result of Communist rejection
of the Indian resolution [in
U.N.0., offering a compromise
solution of the Korean p.-0.-w,
deadlock]. The question is:
What sort of action? It should
be action not for the sake of
action, but action for the sake
of persuasion and policy.
“What is needed is action by
pressure, preferably by hidden
and silent pressure. It must be
action, moreover, that is thought
through, whether it be one form
or other of blockade ; or the end
of the neutralisation of
Formosa ; or both. Look to the
end. That was the motto of
Cromwell, and it is the motto
that should be in Ike’s mind.”
Surprises by Ike
“U.S. News and World
Report” looks into the crystal-
bowl and comes out with a fore-
cast of “drastic changes in U.S.
strategy against Moscow” under
Eisenhower:
“The Truman way—sit back,
let Stalin call the signals, then
try to catch up—is on the way
out. The U.S., in 1953, will take
the initiative, force Moscow to
try to figure out what to expect
next.
“The Eisenhower plan goes far
beyond Korea. It will show up
in. every corner of the world-
even open some new and surpris-
ing fronts in the East-West ‘cold
war.’
“For seven years this country
[U.S.] has sat, in some fear and
constant uncertainty, wondering
about what Joseph Stalin would
do next. In that time, waging
World War 111, Communist style,
Stalin and his agents have
grabbed areas of the world con-
taining 600 million people.
Peace has been only technical,
with a Communist offensive win-
ning victories on all sides,
“War itself was used by Stalin
in Korea. For two and a half
years, on that narrow front of
World War 111, North Korean
and Chinese armies have fought
the military forces of U.S. to a
standstill.
“All over the world, in
Western Europe, in Africa, in the
Middle East, in non-Communist
Asia, in Latin America—even in
the U.S. —Stalin has been waging
war with weapops designed for
the particular job he wants
done.
“Eisenhower and his top aides
are known to have reached a
conclusion that the U.S., in the
interest of its own safety, cannot
afford to accept continued
defeats in a world war as real in
its conquests as any ever fought.
“A positive policy, aimed at
restoring to U.S. the initiative
that its strength justifies, must be
established. It is time, in other
words, to let the Russians do
the guessing— to take away from
them the advantage that the
initiative gives to whoever holds
it.”
Britain and Anzus
Inclusion of Britain in the
Anzus arrangement continues to
be strongly urged in British
Parliament and Press.
The exclusion appears to be
the sores point since bodylme.
ad? salt b tn d m ing n °
aat to , e wounded pride
w uch seems largely responsible
f° r the , °, Nuffield travel-
ling scholar Kennedy I regon-
ning, formerly lecturer in history
a Adelaide University, writes
in Manchester Guardian”:-
“De Volkskram.” Amsterdam
"JOE, OLD FRIEND —JUST DON’T START IT!”
“As an Australian in this
country it has both perplexed
and alarmed me to observe the
persistence with which Great
Britain has pressed her demands
for a voice in Anzus, and has
failed to understand the objec-
tions of the signatories to those
demands.
“After the failure of Great
Britain to defend Malaya and
her inability to send naval power
to protect Australia and New
Zealand we in Australia realised
that a century and a half of shel-
tering behind the Royal Navy
had ended. England was no
longer effective in the South
Pacific, and it was with a feeling
of great relief that we, who came
so close to the Japanese terror,
secured an American pledge for
our defence against her (for such
is the Anzus Treaty).
“Conditions today in our
Near North (your Far East) are
in a most fluid state: America is
feeling her way with caution.
The Anzus- agreement is one
tentative step taken to solidify
the position. Other steps, such
as support of France, help for
Malaya, bolstering of Indonesia
may follow. American public
opinion is not yet prepared to
support ‘lmperial’ action, and if
Britain presses for representation
on Anzus she may withdraw.
“Such a development, which
is by no means a faint possi-
bility, would leave Australia and
New Zealand naked. We know
that in any future war we in the
South Pacific can expect no help
from England, and if through
England’s action we see our only
hope for security withdrawn,
there are strong grounds for be-
lieving that a most serious rift
would occur in Anglo-Australian
relations.
“Many in Australia believe
that Britain should bring a little
realism to bear on Common-
wealth affairs as they stand to-
day, and ask herself:
“1.- —In the event of another
world war can we assist the
Dominions in the South Pacific?
If not, then why are we jeopar-
dising their security by, this
emotional urge to participate in
Anzus? Is it for support in
Malaya, with which Anzus is in
no way concerned?
“2.—Are we showing to the
southern Dominions the trust
they have shown us in years gone
by? I may point out that Aus-
tralia needed no treaty to fight
by the side of Britain in 1914,
nor in 1939. Australia has no
representative on Nato (whose
actions are far more likely
to involve us in war than
Anzus), but her Air Force is
already serving in the Middle
East. Treaties between us are
contrary to the whole concept of
the Commonwealth. Many in
Australia ask is this trust then a
one-way affair?
“Finally, could not Great
Britain remember the intimate
day-to-day exchanges between
the Governments of the Com-
m ° I nwealth . which render any for-
mal participation in Anzus
unnecessary, and forget the
emotionalism which too often
clouds Commonwealth affairs
and which in this case obscures
the inescapable fact that her par-
ticipation in Anzus could do no
good to either of us and pos-
sibly cause great harm to us
both?”
Polls Astray
American public-opinion polls
(as recorded in a “U.S. News and
World Report” account) might
not have been as far astray over
Eisenhower as they were over
Truman at the previous election,
but they were still well out.
The U.S. publication puts the
results thus;
Gallup finding: Tight race.
Result depends upon electoral
votes of these four close States —
Ohio, Illinois, California, all
leaning 51-49 for Eisenhower;
New York, split 50-50.
Crossley: Extremely narrow
margins may decide key States.
Election can go either way.
Roper: Eisenhower ahead, but
slipping. Enough voters un-
decided to throw election either
way.
Actual result: Landslide for
Eisenhower.
Dragnet Digest
Mr. Deputy Eden. —Instanc-
ing the measure of limelight and
responsibility given to Anthony
Eden at the Commonwealth
Conference, London “Econo-
mist” calls it an example of the
way in which, as the months go
by, Mr. Churchill is, unobtru-
sively blit steadily, grooming Mr.
Eden to take over from him in
due course.
Gyppo Fallacies. —In London
“Time and Tide’s” view, the
British Foreign Office’s method
of dealing with Egypt is based
on a set of fallacies: that trust
and goodwill exist between
Britain and Egypt, and, if for
the time being, they do not, it is
probably the fault of Zionist in-
trigue ; that Egypt is a staunch
and reliable ally; and that the
way to make Egypt even more
staunch and reliable is to woo
her rulers with every sort of
concession, military, political,
economic and moral. That
approach, it comments, has
failed again and again, as
appeasement mostly does.
Indo-China Intervention.
While, in London “Daily Tele-
graph’s” view, nobody wants to
provoke direct Chinese interven-
tion in Indo-China, to suppose
that this depends upon the kind
of assistance Britain and U.S.
give to France is the height of
naivete: “It depends solely upon
the Chinese Communists’ esti-
mation of what is necessary to
gain their ends. They will inter-
vene if and when it suits them
militarily, and it is by the same
criterion that our own action
should be resolved.”
Viewpoint. London
“Economist”; “To some people
‘France for the French but
Poland for the Soviet Union’
makes quite a good slogan.”
West’s Objective. —Defined by
a “New York Times” correspon-
dent : “Whether it is called ‘con-
tainment’ of Soviet power or
‘liberation by peaceful means’ of
the captive States in the Soviet
orbit, the common aim is to stop
Russia in her tracks by methods
short of war.”
West Slackens. —No need,
suggests London “News
Chronicle,” to seek far for the
reason why the West’s initial
defence drive is running down.
A result of changed Moscow
policy, “The tension between
the Soviet bloc and the West
has relaxed considerably. The
fear of imminent war is no
longer in the front of every-
one’s mind. ‘Cut down the call-
up,’ say some quite astute poli-
ticians. ‘Slow down the arma-
ments programme, we shall only
cripple ourselves,’ cry others.
This is music in Moscow’s ears.”
U.N.O. Failure. —As recorded
here at the time, even before the
latest session U.S. enthusiasm for
U.N.O. was waning. Summing-
up on that session a New York
“Herald Tribune” correspondent
has commented: “Things have
gone so badly for the United
Nations during this session of
the General Assembly that there
are many, once ardent sup-
porters, who are asking whether
the organisation can survive.
There are even some who are
asking whether it ought to
survive.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Trucks and Road Damage
“The trucks are ruining our roads” is
the favorite slogan of those who are
killing long-distance trucking in Australia.
Trucks have done much harm to roads.
Most of our highways were built in the
mid-’thirties and designed to carry axle-
loads of 1% tons ; Main Roads Depart-
ment engineers say that eight-ton axle-
loading does little serious damage.
It is the heavily overloaded trucks
which have done the real damage. A
single truck with an axle-load of, say,
13 tons could do hundreds of pounds’-
worth of damage in a few miles. Depart-
mental records show cases of 17-ton
loads on a single axle. Such loads may
cause broken bridges and culverts, failure
of road-foundations and serious aggrava-
tion of existing weaknesses.
Thus a few irresponsible and some-
times ignorant operators have done con-
siderable harm to roads and to their own
business. While their actions cannot be
excused, the authorities must accept some
blame for not enforcing loading restric-
tions until two years ago, and for impos-
ing taxes which encourage overloading.
But the trucks have been blamed for
too much. The boom years of 1950 and
1951 were also wet years, and, in the
matter of road damage, water runs a
close second to the overloaded truck. The
combination of the two is deadly.
The Hume Highway from Sydney to
Albury has carried more heavy traffic
than any other road in the State, and the
annual report of the N. S. Wales Main
Roads Department shows that, in 1950-51,
£303,983 was spent on maintenance and
minor improvement of its 373 miles. Of
that sum no less than £61,026 was spent
on the 35 miles between Sydney and
Camden. During the same year at least
25,000 trips were made by trucks on that
stretch of road.
Therefore, if each truck had paid to
N. S. Wales the sum of £l2 per trip
Sydney-Melbourne trucking operators
would have paid for all the repairs and
minor improvements carried out on the
load they used during 1950-51. But
£l2 would only be a fleabite compared
with what operators actually have to
pay. For instance, 20 tons at 3d. per
ton per mile on the 373-mile trip works
out at no less than £93 ss.
In 1951-52, £479,993 was spent in main-
tenance and minor improvements to the
Hume Highway. So far no official figures
of road-tonnages have been released, but
about 370,000 tons was moved. Nobody
outside the Transport Department knows
exactly how much the Sydney-Melbourne
operators did pay to N. S. Wales. They
all paid big registration fees and charges
under the “Co-ordination” Act which
may well have totalled £500,000.
Contrast that to the tolls charged on
the great turnpikes in America, which
were built by private capital and are
operated for profit. For a 160-mile
journey on the Pennsylvania Turnpike a
20-ton truck is charged approximately
£3 10s. Our average inter-State truck
would gross less than 20 tons, so the
N. S. Wales tax of 3d. per ton-mile
should be sufficient to maintain roads like
billiard-tables all over the State. —G. H.
.tN.S.W.).
New States
There’s not much point in quoting
Britain as an argument against New
States (B. 28/1/’53). The U.K., with its
45 million people, is a small compact mass
compared with Australia’s diversified
surface of close on 3,000,000 square miles.
Nor should it be overlooked that
sections of the U.K. are far from satis-
fied with central government. Even for-
getting Scottish “nationalism,” it is
evident that north of the Tweed there
is a very genuine feeling that the Parlia-
ment at Westminster is incapable of
giving Scottish problems and interests
the sympathetic understanding that a local
Parliament would, and could, give. The
“Glasgow Herald,” a leading newspaper
which is anything but chauvinistic, has
stressed over and over the failure of
Westminster to administer Scottish affairs
satisfactorily. To a lesser extent that feel-
ing of frustration also applies to Wales.
There is another aspect usually over-
looked by Australian advocates of
centralised government. The U.K. enjoys
local-government to an extent undreamed
of in any of our States. Education and
police administration, to mention but two
important functions, are delegated to local
authority and are thus free from political
pressure-groups. London’s 8,000,000 in-
habitants are governed in the main by
the L.C.C., and Birmingham, Manchester,
Liverpool, Glasgow, Edinburgh, as well
as other cities in the U.K., have extensive
powers of self-government.
How often has The Bulletin com-
plained of Sydney’s retarding influence on
N. S. Wales as a whole, and particularly
the lack of development of the South
Coast? Where are the railways which
should connect the hinterland of the
State with Jervis Bay, Twofold Bay and
other potential harbors? The State’s
North Coast suffers from the same
kind of starvation. There, coastal towns
are linked-up by railways running prac-
tically parallel to, and “competing” with,
sea-borne traffic. Newcastle is almost
the only city forming an outlet for
country produce.
What community of interests would
exist between the pastoralists of the
Western Plains, the banana-growers and
sugarcane-farmers of the Tweed, the
miners of the Hunter Valley, the dairy-
men of the North Coast and the wheat-
growers of the western slopes? Well,
apart from mining, all the activities
mentioned refer to primary production.
So why the conflicting interests?
Our trouble is not too many Parlia-
ments, but too many members of Par-
liament and too much centralised govern-
ment. Let the franchise be based, as at
present, on adult suffrage, but, instead of
electing members direct, we could elect
a body of men and women along the lines
of an electoral college. This would, in
turn, elect representatives to Federal and
State Parliaments.
Government is already mainly a matter
of Cabinets, and fewer members would
strengthen rather than weaken the electors’
wishes. Moreover, an electoral college
might see to it that we were more worthily
and less expensively governed than we
are under the present system. — Demos
(Tas.).
Australian Trucks
The efforts of the Victorian Govern-
ment and State railways to wipe out all
private motor transport is a queer
counterblast 1 to the International Har-
vester’s recently-completed £1,000,000
motor-truck manufacturing plant at
Dandenong (Vic.), a few miles from Mel-
bourne—the first established by the firm
outside North America.
Built in less than a year, the new
works are already producing four truck
models at the rate of 26 per day ; they
will make 5500 units a year for both
national and export needs. The four
models are those most urgently needed
by the country’s road-transport service.
The Dandenong works, set in 56 acres,
are the second major manufacturing plant
set up by International Harvester’s Aus-
tralian subsidiary. In 1939, the company
established a farm-implement-manufac-
turing centre at Geelong, 44 miles from
Melbourne. Today this plant also pro-
duces power-units and farm tractors, the
“I hat sort of thing will inevitably lead mum and dad to th divorce court."
latter at the rate of 3000 a year, as
well as crankcases, cylinder-heads, mani-
folds, clutch-housings and other com-
ponents for the trucks assembled at
Dandenong.
Mr. J. L. Camp, assistant director of
foreign operations, said the company
decided to produce motor-trucks in Aus-
tralia because it was sure that the country,
with its great potential growth, large
areas and widespread settlement, “would
depend largely on road transport for its
development and would need the assur-
ance of continued local motor-truck
supply.”
Production at Dandenong will also
“This is for the FLY.”
allow for export to Asia and to countries
and islands in the Pacific. Mr. Camp
said, “We anticipate regular and increas-
ing export of our products and feel sure
that we can develop a significant export
market which will earn money overseas
and help to build up Australia’s overseas
trade balance.” He also predicted that,
within three years, the plants at Dande-
nong and Geelong would be exporting
2000 truyks and 1500 tractors yearly.—
Ding Dong (Vic.).
Price of Milk
The price of whole-milk is due shortly
for revision in N. S. Wales, and some
improvement should be made in the
method of determining the cost of pro-
duction. This is based upon figures sup-
plied by the producers themselves.
Returns are obtained from a mere fraction
of the dairymen involved —about one in
every 60 —and, except for rates and land-
values, are subject to no check.
On figures supplied last time, cost of
production varied from 9.93 d it
lOd. —to 4s. a gallon, so that some dairy-
men are supposed to be able to produce
about five times more cheaply than others.
The board averaged costs at 36.26 d. a
gallon. On the dairymen’s own figures
this presumed that while one man was
making a clear profit of 2s. 2d. a gallon
another was supposed to be earning a
living by losing approximately Is. on
every gallon produced. As excess summer
production would have to be sold for
processing at less than 36.26 d., the board
added an extra 3.24 d. a gallon, bringing
the price to 3s. 3td.
As production in summer costs less
than in winter—although no one seems
to know the exact difference—the summer
price was fixed at 2s. 9fd. and the winter
price a t 3s. 9|d. Because of drought
during the 1951-52 summer, the winter
price was introduced last year in January
instead of March—so that the high winter
price operated for nine months of the
year —and because of further increases
in costs, the high winter price of 3s. 9{d.
was further lifted to 4s. 2d.
Despite a bountiful season, milk has
continued to be sold at the winter price
of 4s. 2d. The reason given is that it is
necessary to compensate farmers for the
ravages of drought, flood and fire. The
trouble is that, while One man may be
practically ruined by these calamities,
another may not be affected at all. One
farmer receives a welcome, but quite un-
necessary, windfall; another is handed
compensation, that is a mere mockery in
relation to the losses incurred.
From the consumer’s viewpoint, the
whole position is about as unsatisfactory
as it could be. —121 (N.S.W.).
Aviation
One or two bad plane-crashes overseas
have drawn attention to the fact that
complete air-safety has not yet been
achieved. But it is well on the way.
To a large extent progress towards
absolute flying-safety is the work of the
International Civil Aviation Organisation,
one international body which does a
really good job. The 1.C.A.0. sets itself
the task of promoting safe flying-practices,
improving airfields, providing weather-
stations and organising search- and
rescue-units.
1.C.A.0. has 36 countries co-operating
with it, and operates on a regional basis
—last month a regional conference was
held in Melbourne, which has been H.Q
for the Pacific. This office is to be
moved to Asia, but Australia will still
have an important say.
Incidentally, Britain in flying is certainly
forging ahead. The Canberra jet s recen
record flight out here highlights
jet-superiority. It is part of Britain s
long-range campaign to capture jne
world aviation market.
“The air-forces of 33 countries are
using military aircraft made m Britain
or in their own countries under Bntisn
patents and licences,” says the U.S. pape
“Aviation Age,” which puts the valu
of jet-airliners already ordered m Britain
at $l5l million. . ,
Australia cannot afford to e l.
the world in aviation development, u
important move in the ri g ht direction
might be the suggested plan of ama g
mating the major Australian airline .
one public concern. This wO JjJ ? m
ably help produce not only maximum
safety but cheaper and perhaps faster
services. —Kros (S.A.).


Farmers
Don’t think that farmers today haven’t
got overdrafts (B. 19/11/’52).
In a letter dated 18/6/’52 to the
N.S.W. Farmers’ and Settlers’ Associa-
tion, S. J. Gandon, general-manager of
the Bank of N. S. Wales, stated: “In
total amount rural advances by the banks
have risen about 10 per cent, each year
in spite of the fact that record export
incomes might have been expected to
reduce rural indebtedness,”
For a few years after the war wheat-
growers enjoyed considerable prosperity.
High yields, after the drought, high export
prices and relatively moderate costs com-
bined to make wheatgrowing profitable.
The pool system carried part of these
profits forward to boost incomes of later
years, but the final big payment was made
last August, and we now depend on
current earnings.
The community at large, with its over-
whelming political majority, was quick
to exploit the situation. “Prosperity”
was made the excuse for a series of
demands. Shorter hours, wage-loadings
and many minor appeasements followed
in rapid succession, causing higher costs,
most of which were passed on in higher
prices all along the line, till they reached
the farmer.
The sheepman is not so seriously
affected because of his limited outturn,
but the wheatgrower, with his big weight
of produce and heavy investment in fast-
wearing machinery, finds himself faced by
an increase in costs greater than his earn-
ings.
Farm-machinery prices rose 45 per cent,
last year. Only very small wheatfarms
have depreciable assets with a prime cost
less than £2OOO, on which the cost-
increase was £9OO in a single season. On
my farm, slightly larger than average,
the increase in plant-replacement costs is
£3400 in two years, and the gross-coSt
increase, if I include drought-provision
as well at prevailing high costs, amounts
to about £5OOO.
Few Australian farmers are making
such amounts. Too many are getting out
of wheat, though in Canada and the
U.S.A. a more liberal price policy has
led to recurring record crops.
There is more than the welfare of the
individual farmer involved. Growers’
leaders believe an all-out effort could in-
crease our output 100 million bushels.
Last year the U.K. alone 'Bought 150-
million-dollars’-worth of wheat under the
1.W.A., the larger part of which could
have been produced in Australia, thus
boosting our exports and saving precious
dollars,— Mixed Farmer (N.S.W.).
Sail, Steam or Diesel
There is no need for “X.M.N.” (B.
24/12/’52) to go as far back as 1938 to
recall the “bad old days” at sea. In
1945, when I last crossed the Indian
Ocean in an English cargo-ship, we had
to stand a whole two-hour trick at the
wheel staring at a swinging magnetic
compass. Now the crew of the same
ship, which has been fitted with automatic
steering, boast that they barely touch the
wheel for the whole trip.
We had to keep our lookout in wind
and rain on the weather side of the
bridge ; now cargo-ships have bridge-
boxes fitted with dear-vision screens.
These are circular windows driven by
electric motors, revolving so rapidly that
rain and snow cannot adhere to the glass.
Off Melbourne Heads in fog we hove-to
and clanged the bell for hours on the
forecastle-head to avoid the risk of col-
lision ; now the officer of the watch
switches on the radar and keeps the ship
moving.
Within a few years the problem of
rust will be overcome, and the sailors
will throw away their chipping-hammers.
Instead of paint a practical plastic com-
position that will last at least for months
is sure to be perfected. What then of
the “bad old days” of 1953?
In the tramp coal-burners we were im-
pressed by the old shellbacks’ tales of
the windjammers. Surely “X.M.N.” was
told of “wooden ships and iron men and
iron ships and wooden men” at least
once a week for the four years of his
apprenticeship. Yet a few months ago I
was amused to read a long story from
America comparing the “iron men” of
the coal-burning era with the “softies”
who go to sea in the diesel- and oil-fired
tramps of today.
In 20 years the aura of phony romance
that now clings to the windjammers will
have shifted to the trampships in which
we served our time. I have already filled
a notebook with ideas for hair-raising
magazine stories of the “bad old days” of
the between-war coal-burners.— Matros
(W.A.).
Compensation Awards
On the same day one Supi'eme Court
jury awarded a woman with a dependent
child £5OOO for the loss of her husband,
while another awarded a man £5951 for
the loss of two fingers and two joints
of the index-finger of the right hand. Not
long ago a man with a wife and two de-
pendent children was awarded £2768 for
total incapacity due to spinal injury; on
the same day and for a similar injury a
woman —no dependent children men-
“ Scared, eh?”
tioned —was awarded £40,000. The first
award was made by the Workers’ Com-
pensation Commission; the second by a
Supreme Court jury.
Again, two women, each with a de-
pendent child, were awarded £11,500 and
£4500 respectively by Supreme Court
juries for the loss of their husbands.
Lastly, for the loss of the greater portion
of each hand, a boy received £2OOO, and
for the loss of two fingers of the right
hand a man received £6626. The boy
was awarded £lO,OOO by a Supreme Court
jury, but under a law of 1891 limiting the
liability of the plaintiff (the Victorian
Railways Commissioner) the amount had
to be reduced to £2OOO. The other award
was made by a Supreme Court jury.
It seems clear, firstly, either that all
awards or none at all should be limited
by law, and, secondly, that if they are so
limited, the limitation should be adjusted
whenever necessary. The boy lost £BOOO
under a law passed 60 years ago.
A suggestion which reads like common-
sense is that damages should take the
form of an ample life-annuity rather
than a huge capital payment. Such pay-
ment may within a short time pass on to
next-of-kin having no valid claim to such
a windfall.
Also, a capital sum may subsequently
be rendered either, excessive or inadequate
as the cost of living rises or falls. The
annuity, on the other hand, could always
be adjusted to conform with variations
in the basic wage.—G. N. (N.S.W.).
- i
Retired Bank Officials
“Bob Cratchit’s” remarks (B. 21 /1 / ’53)
will please those who are bent on wiping
out the trading-banks. They are also
liable to do a disservice to bank-
pensioners, of whom I am one, by an-
tagonising directors.
Anybody who compares today’s bank-
share values with those of,, say, 1918
will realise that their owners, as a body,
have suffered a heavy capital loss. Gold
money is no more. In its place is paper,
worth only what it will buy from week
to week and open to damage by a poli-
tically controlled central bank if wrongly
directed.
The position of premises and other
tangibles needs, therefore, to be as strong
as possible, if only to retain public con-
fidence, particularly in a time of crisis.
Most bank-premises worth the name are
not cheaply and easily convertible to
other uses. Many are old, and there must
be a latent liability of millions for re-
placements at the appropriate times.
The banks’ ability to continue increas-
ing pay and pensions is open to doubt.
They have faced pretty stiff increases in
expenses since the war.
Among clerical staffs with which I
worked, most individuals were unambi-
tious and very few elected to qualify for
promotion by study. As for responsi-
bility, compare that of the bank clerk
with that of a British railways express-
driver, now paid about £8 10s. a week,
and, in most cases, without any hope of
a pension. Also, note that Royal Navy
officers retired before 1945 have received
no pension adjustment to offset infla-
don * ...
1 was glad to get a bank job in Vic-
toria soon after 1900 and I was able to
save a little, even \\hile stationed away
from home. I was dependable and
reasonably hard-working, and I reckon I
have received my due. My pension
(much the same as other banks pay in
similar cases) is approximately double
what my very small premiums entitled
me to. That it does not fully cover
personal and household expenses is no
more my bank’s fault than that of the
man in the moon. —R. B. (Vic.).
Lincoln
True, Lincoln did not win his first
Presidency specifically on the slave issue
(B. 21/1/’53). Neither do our present
Labor leaders emphasise their socialisa-
tion plank at election-time. Lincoln’s
sentiments in the matter of slavery wexe
well known and the South feared that
he would attempt abolition as soon as
he felt safe to do so. They threw down
the gage in anticipation.
There were, of course, other causes of
strife between North and South, In a
sense the struggle was one between Pro-
tection and Free Trade. Lincoln’s party,
the Republican, was, as today, closely
associated with financial and big-business
interests, and favored a high tariff to
stimulate secondary industries. The
Southern States were dominated by the
planters, whose products mainly went to
England and Europe, and who favored
a low-tariff policy.
It is doubtful if Lincoln’s party could
justly claim to be more democratic than
its opponent. Even the often-praised
“The plumbing, you see, is simple but effective."
“free-land” policy inaugurated by Lincoln
-—the equivalent of our contemporary
“free selection before survey”—was in-
spired, not so much by genuine Republi-
can enthusiasm for the ideal of a nation
of property-owners, as by the belief that
the western lands offered thus gratuitously
to the land-hungry were of little value.
This move won Lincoln a great number
of votes, and, aided by a split among
the Democrats, helped him to win.
Lincoln was assassinated too early in
his second term for anyone to be able to
say definitely whether he would have
proved a great national leader —one able
to rise above the influence or menaces of
sectional pressure-groups.
He did not rise to the occasion during
the war. His economic policy then was
not of a kind to offend even a stickler for
capitalistic privilege. War loans were
raised at high interest-rates, and with
repayment in gold guaranteed. Also,
though conscription was introduced, any-
one called up could evade service by
providing a substitute. A rich man could,
in fact, hire someone to take his place.
—Castlereagh (N.S.W.).
Films, “Funnies” and Children
I notice that the howl has again been
raised, in both England and Australia,
concerning the alleged pernicious effect
of films'and “comics” on the minds of
children. In England it has even been
suggested that picture-theatres be placed
legally out of bounds to children under
14.
It amazes me that the idea endures that
the horror- and gangster-film and blood-
and-thunder “literature” exert an un-
wholesome influence on children, when
the evidence of increasing child-delin-
quency points overwhelmingly to much
less involved causes —declining parental
and school discipline and lowering moral
standards generally, for example.
When my generation was very young
it patronised second-rate stage melo-
dramas like “Death at Devil’s Gulch”
and read Sexton Blake, Deadwood Dick,
Val Fox and the rest of them. Admit-
tedly, comics were comic and nothing
more. But the percentage of us who
rushed out and committed misdeeds even
indirectly influenced by our degraded
theatrical or literary tastes wouldn’t have
been one iu 10,000.
Normal, healthy minds, childish or
adult, aren’t unduly impressed by even
the sympathetic portrayal of crime or
criminals; the odd subnormal mind un-
doubtedly is, but the exception in this
respect is in no way related to the rule.
Discrimination between right and wrong
is one of the first lessons learned in all
nature. Children who persist in wrong-
doing in spite of consequences are
complex cases and invariably guided (or
misguided) by circumstances much more
deep-seated than the exploits of the Evil
Eye, “Two-gun” Dugan, Apache devil-
tries, or the celluloid glorification of
crooks and outlaws. — P. O. MacCabe
(N.S.W.).
Surf Lifesavers
It is high time the surf-lifesaving
organisations nutted out a scheme to
finance their work. The humiliating
failure of the “put-a-coin-in-the-boat”
campaign last summer must surely, con-
vince them that bathers won’t pay to help
the clubs save them from drowning.
Why can’t the lifesavers charge a
person for rescuing him? And charges
need not stop at rescue-work. Treat-
ment of a bluebottle-sting or a cut, or
mere grogginess after colliding with a
surfboard or somebody’s fleshy paunch, is
surely worth five-bob.
Lifesavers should demand help from
municipal aldermen. It would need only
one major surf disaster, without life-
savers, to make those gentlemen realise
how much the popularity of their beaches
depends on the security that lifesavers
provide.— Benelong (N.S.W.),


f
FROM THIN PLATE TO HEAVIEST STEEL PLATE. CAST
STEEL. CAST IRON. ALUMINIUM. BRONZE, ETC.
THE MOBILCO WELDING GENERATOR is a heavy-duty
200 amp. D.C. Wfelder with outstanding characteristics.
Designed for tractor or electric-motor drive. Built to the
highest engineering standards, it is simple to operate at
the amazing current rate of from 15 amps, up to 200
amps. The Mobiico Welder is so versatile that it is ideal
for use as a 32 Volt home lighting and power plant.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS NOW!
:
P
m
tsm
m
■■ ■
MOBILCO
MOBILCO ELECTRODES
are available for all types
of work. The Mobilco
Contact Electrode is spe-
cially made for easy weld-
ing by unskilled operators.
WELDING GENERATOR
HEAVY]
DUTY]
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 - TELEGRAMS; MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
BRANCHES BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON
AGENTS ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
Pigs
Can be
A balanced mineral ration in feeding pigs often
means good instead of poor returns. The best
source of feed minerals is Tri-Cal-Os Bone Flour
with guaranteed minimum content of 30%
phosphoric acid and 40% lime. Tri-Cal-Os is
processed especially for maximum digestibility
and to ensure maximum production.
‘d’ii-eai-Oi.
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O Bo* 3583.
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Bo* 4058, MELBOURNE • G.P.CL
Box 712 F. ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Bo* 758 K. BRISBANE
• G.P.O Box 588. PERTH.
ƒ
OS
&fa
■\w
isto
Sl**' 1,
fvoo*
bo« e
SJLN39V NOiXVIS ? 3QQJLS DNIOVai WQMJ
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Mating
“Rhamu”: With the approach
of the autumn mating period run
in your rams and look them
over; an old ram in most cases
will not get you many lambs.
While they are in, trim up their
feet, shear them or crutch and
ring them. Drench if neces-
sary and give them two or three
weeks in a small paddock with a
high protein supplement such as
oats and lucerne-hay. This will
harden them up for the work
ahead.
Rams will fight, so if flies are
around swab them around the
horns with a good dressing, as
a bad fly-strike will make a ram
infertile for weeks. Dipping in
arsenic just before mating will
also lower fertility.
Flushing the ewes with green-
feed for two weeks before join-
ing will increase your lambing-
percentage. A patch of lucerne
is handy for flushing.
If rams are in good order, 2
per cent, will be sufficient, with
perhaps 3 per cent, with maiden
ewes. Yarding the sheep over-
night once a week will help
catch “shy breeders.”
A six-week mating period
should be plenty long enough.
Too long a period means a pro-
tracted lambing, with consequent
difficulty in handling for mark-
ing, shearing and grass seed.
Lambing
“J.N.W.”: As lambing-time
comes the ewes should be in
good condition, not too fat.
Have them in sheltered pad-
docks with a good short pick of
feed, not rank. Heavily-tim-
bered paddocks aren’t necessary,
a few shade trees, odd logs,
stumps and grass tussocks will
keep the cold wind off young
lambs. Pick paddocks fairly
close to the homestead.
When lambing is due to start
(about 150 days after the rams
are joined) ride through the
paddocks regularly to quieten
the ewes. No dogs.
The wise man gets up early
and looks through his lambing
ewes before the crow has time
to get active. He will carry
some phosphorus poison to poke
under the skin of any dead ewes
and lambs. Where crows are
bad a crow-trap should have
been made and loaded with an
attractive bait.
Fly-dressing and shears, a
little bluestone for crow-pick and
some antiseptic for assisted
lambings are necessary.
Where possible shear or
crutch ewes just before lambing
to minimise fly trouble and help
the lamb find his food-svipply.
The two main diseases at
lambing-time are toxaemia of
pregnancy (twin-lamb disease,
lambing-sickness) and hypo-
calcaemia (milk - fever, grass-
tetany). They are mainly due
to bad management, such as
scarcity of feed, overdriving,
sudden change of feed, etc., and
should not as a rule worry the
careful flock-owner.
A Professor Answered
“C.S.”; Hardly a week goes
by without somebody either
proclaiming the doom of the
wool fibre or else pleading for
stronger measures to counter the
threat from the new synthetics,”
says the “Wool Record,” Brad-
ford (Eng.).
“One of the most novel ap-
proaches to the subject is that of
Professor T. G. Hunter, head of
“ Hey! They're pullin' a bit!"
the Chemical Engineering De-
partment at Sydney University,
He is reported to have suggested
that ‘ Australia ’ s method of mar-
keting wool in 1500 classified
types must be chan § ed imme ‘
diate i y> * as it is a sa ] es handicap
m competition with uniform-
quality synthetic fibres.
“The professor’s idea is that
these 1500 or so types should be
whittled down to ‘a few uniform
grades’ by cleaning and blending
before sale. We do not know if
he suggested what these standard
grades should be, but it would
be interesting to know how he
would go about this drastic slim-
ming process.
“A proposition of this sort
seems far too naive to originate
in such a famed wool-centre as
Sydney. Not only does it over-
look the tremendous variation in
the qualities and uses of wool but
—and this is a worse aberration
—it seeks to take the nature out
of wool by reducing it to the
precise uniformity of the man-
made article. Despite the handi-
caps inherent in it as a living
fibre, wool still has virtues which
the chemist cannot simulate.”
Merino Embargo
“J.R.L.”: Those who oppose
lifting the embargo on stud sheep
do so under misapprehensions.
One is that there is a great deal
of room for expansion of the
wool industry in Africa and
America. There isn’t. All the
land that can run sheep is fully
occupied. The only country
that can expand its sheep flocks
is Australia ; they can be doubled
here.
Another is that these countries
have a poor class of sheep. They
haven’t. African breeders have
good stuff and are improving it
all the time, as the Americans are
improving theirs. If the embargo
were lifted it is very doubtful if
that would increase the quantity
of wool by as much as \\h. a
head in those countries.
We are only making fools of
ourselves by denying our
breeders their legitimate reward
and paving the way for rival
stud-breeders. We may eventu-
ally be going to America or
Africa for our studs if we follow
the present stupid policy.
The Wilga
“Breck”: Inured by centuries
to the hardships of low rainfalls,
droughts and poor soils, the
wilga is one of the best all-
round trees for the dry plains.
There’s a non-edible as well as
an edible type. The foliage of
the non-edible trees contains
small percentages of substances
which affect the flavor and make
it unpalatable, to stock. A
shrubby form which grows abun-
dantly on the Darling Downs is
sometimes known as “lavender-
bush,” because its leaves and
stems, when crushed, emit an
odor similar to oil-of-lavender.
This variety, too, is usually
avoided by stock. But both non-
edible types are eaten, without
ill-effects, by cattle and sheep
during feed-shortages.
Nutrient value of the foliage of
the edible wilga is 42 per cent.
The water-content of 48 per
cent, helps assuage thirst over
dry periods. The foliage of the
wilga compares favorably with
that of the kurrajong, nutrient
value of which is 46 per cent,
and water-content 36 per cent.
As fodder reserves, massed
plantations of edible wilga are
invaluable to outback holdings
and provide stock with splendid
shade. Trimming of branches
and leaves as far up as the
animals can reach does not harm
the tree. Wilgas lopped to
ground-level rarely stage a re-
covery. Those more carefully
pruned and left with one or two
main branches to act as breathers
live to bear fodder-crops for an
indefinite period.
Redwater Immunity
“Archaps”: Sought hy
Queensland graziers, there
appears to be little prospect of
any inoculation giving life im-
munity against tick-fever. The
Department of Agriculture states
that the period of immunity fol-
lowing inoculation depends
on the continuous presence of
tick-fever organisms within the
animal’s body, and any action to
prolong this immunity by weak-
ening the body defences might
result in a relapse to an acute
attack, together with a greater
risk at the time of inoculation.
The department points out
that tick-fever- (or redwater-) im-
munisation was effected by intro-
ducing blood containing living
virulent tick-fever organisms into
the animal’s body. The animal
then developed a typical attack
of the fever, which could be
controlled by drug-treatment.
After the attack subsided the
fever organisms remained in the
animal’s system in a dormant
state for a varying period —from
three to 12 months, or even
longer—and immunity continued
during that period.
There was, however, a general
tendency on the part of the body
defences to eliminate the para-
sitic tick-fever organisms, and
some time after this process had
been completed the body de-
fences relaxed and lost their


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITO)
#*
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices!
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE?, ADELAIDE
AND PERTH
The FINEST
COOKERWWEWOBLO !
>
♦
r>r
#
*
f »«»w« P „ ( ; e
WATER SERVICE
Cooking with the Aga is so clean, and cool,
and simple! In fact, the Aga will cook a
dinner for you all by itself, unwatched. Choose
the Model C. 8., and you will also have the
comfort of a splendid hot water service: ample
hot-watef for all kitchen needs, and hot baths,
too! Economical fuel consumption is guaran-
teed and the hot water service is run from the
one small single fire. Life with Aga is so easy!
THE
AGA
COOKER
10 YEARS GUARANJEE
The British-built Aga is
guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
(Established in NX in 1841}
Australian Agents for the AGA
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES 45 King Street, Sydney
VICTORIA ______ 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND _ _ _ Cnr. Margaret and Albert Streets, Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA 113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
TASMANIA A. G. WEBSTER & Sons Ltd., Hobart
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS MALLOCH BROS. Ltd., Pert#
SB
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
f
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION, ETC.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantage of sewerage no matter, where your home may be.
NO GERMS
•
NO WATER
SUPPLY
NECESSARY
ƒf
NO EMPTYING
NO ODOURS
• '
NO FLIES
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple Instruction card supplied makes it possible for any
handyman to instal a Hygeia. The treated sterile sewerage is
absorbed into the soil.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.PTY.ITD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney
Established 22 years.
; DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Hist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.. Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment s Building,
Rundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
TASMANIA; Wm. Crosby & Co. Ltd., Launceston and Hobart.
DARWIN; 0. T. See Kee, Radoleetrix Sales and Services.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern Trading Co., Mercantile Bank Chambers,
Raffles Place. „ „ , „
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers.
Lorne Street, Auckland.
power of controlling the fever
organisms. The animal then
again became susceptible to tick-
fever. This state of balance be-
tween host and parasite was
maintained in nature by con-
stant reinfestation .by means of
ticks, or, artificially, by regular
inoculations at six- to 12-monthly
intervals.
Peanuts in N S W
“P-nut”: Upwards of 2000
acres of peanuts were harvested
on the N.S.W. side of the
N.S.W.-Queensland border, just
far enough to be out of reach of
Kingaroy’s Peanut Board.
Kingaroy growers got lOd. per
pound for their peanuts, N.S.W.
growers got much more. It
doesn’t make sense to Queens-
land growers, but when does
board - controlled marketing
make sense? It’s likely that the
development of smuggling—run-
ning peanuts over the border by
night and selling them free of the
board—set people thinking and
growing. Anyhow, in N.S.W.
an average of 30 bags to the acre
was threshed on land where the
grower knew his business, and a
ready market paid around £6 a
bag. The cash was in the pro-
ducers’ pockets almost
immediately.
Land chosen is mostly the red
volcanic beloved by peanut-
growers Not that the legume
is hard to please. crops
were pulled within half-a-mile of
the sea on near-pure sand. But
the nut grown on sandy soil
meets with buyer-resistance be-
cause of its color-dull and dark.
The red-soil nut has a rich, red-
gold sheen that commands the
best price anywhere, although
the sand nuts are just as good as
the red-ground ones for the pro-
lessors’ nee ds.
Dolomite the land a month
before sowing. Plant in frost-
free areas about November,
earlier in the cold belts. Plant
tbj.e seed—either Virginia Bunch
or Valencia—in drills 3ft. apart,
lOin. between the seed. Valencia
grows more upright than does
the Virginia Bunch, hence can
be sown thicker. Keep the weeds
down and hill when they re
flowering.
They crop in a queer way.
The plant sends down root-like
threads which thrust into the
loose soil and form the nuts
2in. or 3in. below the surface,
That is yvhy it is important to
hill the plants at flower-time.
Round May or June the crop
is ready to pull. Maturity is
gauged by the degree of brown
markings on the inner husk. If
no brownish stripes are apparent
the nuts are immature, and if
they are plucked from the soil
at stage, the kernel will
shrivel and lose weight and
attractiveness. But if they are
left a little too long most of the
nuts stay in the ground.
Prior to pulling, the soil is
loosened with a blade attached
to a tractor drawbar and travers-
ing the ground, say 6in. below
the surface.
On the coast growers find that
stocks aren’t suitable. Warm
winter days and the wet
atmosphere turn the nuts mouldy
and black. Sun-drying is the best
method. A fortnight’s good
weather and they are ready for
the machine.
Three points: (1) Watch for
erosion—peanuts leave the land
as fibreless as a bag of flour;
(2) rotate with some appropriate
crop ; and (3) shunt on sight any
well-dressed gent, who gets to
talking on the need for a New
South Wales Peanut Marketing
Board.
Potato Quality
, “Solanum”; The public wants
a potato which is white-fleshed,
mealy and dry when cooked.
Such potatoes have a high dry-
matter or starch content, which
gives them a high specific gravity.
This is easily measured for prac-
tical purposes by how the
potatoes float or sink in a solu-
tion of lib. of salt in a gallon of
water.
Soil-fertility and -texture, tem-
perature and moisture, variety
and maturity are the most im-
portant factors influencing
specific gravity.
For the chip trade, watery or
soggy potatoes of relatively low
specific gravity are most desir-
able. Digging before maturity
favors this condition,
2,4-D and Wheat
“Haw Moan”: It is reasonable
to expect that hormone com-
pounds, such as 2,4-D, which
owe their lethal effect to over-
stimulation in relatively large
doses, could have a growth-
stimulating influence when used
in minute quantities.
While wheatgrowers have
2,4-D on hand for use on wild
turnip or skeleton-weed, they
might try treating seed-wheat
with a very dilute solution.
Something to go on is that
soaking the seed in a very dilute
solution of one part of 2,4-D to
100 million parts of water for
a period of 24 hours has been
found by Indian scientists to in-
crease the yield of wheat by
nearly 30 per cent.
Keep a Diary
“Big Billy”: For efficiency in
the garden keep a diary. Weekly
entries should be sufficient, and
should include notes on sowing-
and planting-dates, varieties of
manures used, the weather and
harvesting-dates.
Reference to a diary can jog
the memory on such matters as
the need to vary sowing-dates or
manurial practices. Data noted
can also include a sketch of
sowings or plantings where more
than one variety of a vegetable
is sown.
Strength of sprays used should
be recorded, as they may be use-
ful if results have been poor or
detrimental to the plants. Other
valuable information is a table
of weights and measures.
Hints for the Farm
“Springvale”; White turnips
are quick growers and useful to
follow a finished crop of
tomatoes, beans, peas, etc., and
still leave bed-space for some
spring crop. Sow in short rows
in succession (fortnightly) using
them when about Sin. in
diameter. The best - flavored
turnips are those which are well-
fed and grown quickly. Prepare
the soil as for leaf-crops—deep-
trenching and plenty of humus.
Thin out to about 4in. apart.
“Myfr”; Put rhubarb in a
special bed into which a large
quantity of animal manure has
been worked, some of it just out
of reach of the roots. Initiate
clumps from buds taken off the
outer edges of an old crown.
Leave the stems uncut for the
first year and pick only very
sparingly in the second year
unless growth has been excep-
tionally vigorous. After five
years lift the crown, divide and
replant, using only the younger,
outside buds.
“Mr.”: First-quality baled
grass-hay can now (February) be
bought in Victoria for £7 to £8
per ton, whereas if last year’s
prices are repeated, it will cost
£l2 to £lB a ton in the winter.
For stockowners who were
unable to conserve their own,
now is the time to buy.
“My”: Vic. Department of
Agriculture advises northern-
district citrus-growers who are
being troubled with brown-snail
to bait with lib. of calcium
arsenate or soz. of metaldehyde
mixed with 161 b. of bran, using
just enough water to make a
crumbly mash. Place around the
trees in the evening.
“Big Billy”: Brewers’-grains
are a valuable concentrate ration
for dairy-cows, and can be used
in place of cereal grain, bran or
pollard. As they are very perish-
able feed, use within two to four
days of taking delivery. When
used to replace grain, bran or
pollard, 41b. should be substi-
tuted for each pound of dis-
placed foodstuff. To avoid taint-
ing of milk, fresh brewers’-grain
should be fed after milking.
“Gamma”: Like D.D.T.,
B.H.C. has both a contact and a
fumigant action on insects, but
when applied to the foliage of
growing plants, these effects dis-
appear after a few days, owing to
the penetration of B.H.C. into
the plant. It then acts as a
stomach poison, and insects are
harmSd only if they eat the plant-
tissue.
“Deejay”: Force glue into
awkward spots with an oilcan.
Heat glue and pour into a
warmed can. Press bottom to
apply. Keep glue liquid by
standing the can in hot water,
and then wash-out with same
after use.
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
After early February rains there will only be some
showery intervals south of Capricorn, but north of the tropic
the rains will be more continuous and heavier. A character
of the cyclical series was seen in the January rains when the
heavy falls expected in early December were found to be
part of the present cycle and were reproduced at a further
two months.
A conference of scientists in America discussed my
theories of immediate sunspot effects, but could not agree to
accept them. They will find, however, that this disputed link
between earth and sun exists and does affect the weather,
though the weather results do not show until about a week
after the other known results. My theory is that the
weather results from the magnetically deflectable Alpha and
Beta, whereas the other results are direct from Gamma. I
am asking Harvard College Observatory to consider this.


V ;•
Hi
Even listeners can win
a watch -or a walrus -
in my grand new
AMPOL SHOW
"Number
Please!"
says
JACK DAVEY
"NUMBER PLEASE!"
every Friday at 8 p.m.
on Macquarie Stations:
2GB 2HR 2CA 2WL 2DU 2HD
2LF 2LT 2MG 2MW 2PK 3AW
3CV 4BH 4GR SDN 6IX 6WB
6MD 6BY 7HO 7LA
two tousled-haired, tiptoeing
shadows, one with a swag. And
then they hugged the hedge with
rare skill until it took them
through the open double-gates
and into a jungle of tall grass
and bushes.
“No! This way! C’mon!”
hissed Jack, pointing at their
cache below the old gum-tree,
and plucking at Jim’s sleeve.
But Jim, fearful and fascinated,
was lured by gambolling
shadows thrown on a window-
blind. The blind went quiver-
ing up, a human head thrust
out, and Clancy’s voice roared
merriment into the night as Mr.
Morgan, beside him, broke
incredibly into song.
“Grads and undergrads and
fellows. ..”
Mr. Morgan’s voice pursued
them over the slippery sapling
bridge.
“Gaudy profs in reds and
yellows ...” sang Mr. Morgan.
“Listen to that,” Jack said in
tones of deep criticism.
They listened, while Mr. Mor-
gan carolled praise of his Alma
Mater.
“Sing with lung as tough as
bellows...” melodiously bel-
lowed Mr. Morgan.
And “He just loves himself,”
caustically commented Jack.
T)UT they weren’t out of the
woods yet. Still, in fact,
deep in the sucker forest. They
hadn’t crashed many yards be-
fore a new peril glared at them
—a dull red glow through the
spindly tangle of trees. A camp-
fire.
They halted, confounded. This
was too much. They had thought
they had the night to them-
selves, and here was the night
peopled. By mad field-work
officers and sentimental teachers.
By goodness-knows-what ahead.
Campfires in the forest. Each,
as he stood still and silent, was
dimly aware of an enlargement
of vision, a struggling cognis-
ance of things undreamt of in
their innocence. The night
which lay so peacefully outside
their dormitory windows was not
silent and empty but alive, boil-
ing with secret and mysterious
energy.
And they felt a keen disap-
pointment. For, it appeared,
they were not the only malefac-
tors abroad.
Now the smarting taste of
wood-smoke filled mouth and
nostrils and eyes... They crept
closer, nervously starting at
every sound, feverish with
curiosity...
“Chuck the weed over, Red!”
That nasal voice belonged to
Ginger Hall. And the other,
deeper, lazy voice, “Shut up
and get on with the cookin’,” as
unmistakably belonged to Red
Fraser.
What were they cooking? Jim
had to know, and edged closer.
He would scarcely have been
surprised to discover such har-
dened characters enjoying a can-
nibalistic feast. But when he
leaned round the charred trunk
of a survivor of the Big Fire he
could see no unhappy first-year
impaled on a green spit. Ginger
was merely toasting bread;
further back in the ruddy circle
Darky Sullivan was removing a
billy of cocoa from the fire.
Red himself was smoking.
Jack and Jim skirted round
the party as quietly as possible.
About half an hour later they
had crossed the road and were
clambering between the top wire
and the netting.
The moon passed under a
cloud as they left that old gentle-
men’s club, the ram-paddock,
and Jack got a shoeful of water
in the irrigation-ditch near Mr.
Moggs’s house. Mr. Moggs’s
white fence gleamed in ghostly
palings against the solid black
of the water-tank, and a possum
scampered on the corrugated-
iron roof. Fly, the fat black-
and-tan barb, scented them at
last and barked furiously, and
Jim could have sworn he heard
Mr. Moggs snoring. But they
were past the place at last, Tun-
ing lightly, and, looking back,
they could see no light in the
cottage.
A T last they were in the corner-
paddock, among their prey.
The lambs and their mothers
were all around them, but the
paddock itself seemed vast and
dark, and it was difficult to dis-
tinguish one sheep from another
in surroundings of changing
shadows, mingling amorphous
shapes of black and grey. Jack
made a couple of charges. And
the Sheep set up such a fearful
bleating, there was such a scatter
and tumult and drumming of
tiny hooves that they were sure
the whole countryside would be
aroused. Over at .Mr. Moggs’s
house Fly tugged at his chain
and barked and barked.
After a while they tried again.
“We’ll drive ’em into a corner,”
Jack whispered—though there
was no need for whispering in
the middle of the paddock. But
the silly sheep wouldn’t be
driven. They milled and floun-
dered, and then galloped panic-
stricken. Silly matrons cours-
ing plumply, aprons quivering.
Woolly lambs racing. The
strong smell of sheep rising up
from the damp grass, and Jack
and Jim running wildly, waving
their arms, puffed and silent and
desperate.
“It’s —no —good,” Jack panted
at last. “They’ve got the wind
up properly. And just listen to
that!” That was Fly, who had
become quite hysterical in his
warnings. But his master slept.
“We’ll give ’em a chance to
settle down,” Jim said wisely.
They settled down themselves,
lengthwise on the damp soft
grass. Jim chewed clover and
occasionally Jack stalked a
sheep with indifferent success.
Their hearing became acutely
tuned to the noises of the night,
the rustle of grasses, the stirring
of leaves, and the sighing breath-
ing of sheep and the continuous
tearing and champing noise of
their grazing sounded as loudly
and as eloquently as anything
they had ever heard. Grey forms
advanced and retreated, breath-
ing alarm. Shallow eyes would
stare and sparkle luminously, an
old ,ewe would stamp her foot.
“Well trap one yet,” Jack
whispered as a daring lamb came
close, then bounded off. They
lived in a world of sheep. And,
gradually, the soft night passed
over them.
Jim woke up with a start to
find Jack wrestling with a lusty
lamb. “Nearly trod—on me,”
Jack panted as the lamb bucked
and plunged. “Quick!” Jim
flew to aid him.
THE lamb was quiet, but as
heavy as lead by the time
they reached the ram-paddock.
And, to make things worse, the
moon had come out again, mak-
ing paddocks and house and tank
—every stump, it seemed, and
stick—clear, sharp, distinct.
Blackedged boys and lamb stand-
ing out in a paddock of pure
silver.
The old gentlemen, bunched
together in a corner, blew
through crinkled indignant nos-
trils at the intruders, turned their
impressive backs on their kid-
napped progeny and calmly con-
tinued supper.
The boys penetrated deep into
the suckers on the way back, to
avoid Red and his friends, in
case those happy criminals were
still feasting. At last, scratched
and weary, they halted. Jack
stood the lamb on its feet, and
it bobbed its head and tried to
escape, then stood quietly, with
heaving fat flanks.
“We should’ve brought some
rope,” Jim said.
Jack glared at him. “Why
didn’t you think of it? Can’t
expect me to think of everything
—can you?”
Jim was tactfully silent.
“Well,” Jack said, more peace-
ably, “you’d better duck over
and get the things. I’ll stay here.
Cripes, I’m tired!”
“Me, too. Arms feel as if
they’ll drop off.”
“It’ll be worth it, though,”
Jack said with sudden enthusi-
asm. “Just look at him!” Jack
began to probe and massage the
lamb with knowing fingers. The
lamb relieved himself. “Mud-
fat.”
“Coin’ to kill him here?”
“Here?” Jack was scornful.
“Have a bit of sense. What’d
we do with the guts? Say noth-
ing of skin, blood, so on. No
fear. We’ll take him up-river—
like I said. Second Beach is the
place. Sling him up on a tree,
and then,, cripes, tomorrow,
what a feed!”
“It’s a long way,” Jim said
dubiously.
“Long way, all right. But,
cripes, it’s worth it. Anyway,
what are you waiting for? Go
and get the bag!” This with a
sharp edge of command.
“Got it?” Jack demanded,
when Jim returned a few
minutes later. Jim silently
flourished his burden. “Good.
Come on. Up.”
By the mudbank they nearly
stumbled on Mr. Buckmaster
and Mr. McAllister. They were
plodding on, in a sort of fog of
weariness, when they became
aware of a queer floundering
and splashing. Looking down
they saw the gleam of a hurri-
cane-lantern. They shrank in-
stantly into the shadows, almost
releasing the lamb in their fright.
And the lamb, sensing rescue,
perhaps, began to struggle fran-
tically. Then he ba-a’d.
“What’s that?” Mr. Buck-
master’s voice came sharply, dis-
tinctly, through the shuddering
silence.
No answer, only the rippling
of the river.
Then: “Oh, it’s a sheep.
Quite a few strays get up here.
Will we call it a night?”
Mr. Buckmaster’s reply was
lost to them. For, careless now
of noise, they plunged crashing
through the night. Scarcely feel-
ing even the weight of the lamb.
“Funny thing,” Mr. Buck-
master said, carefully winding
the wet line. “Sounded more
like a cow smashing through
there. But I distinctly heard a
sheep.”
“Sure it wasn’t some of your
charges doing a spot of sheep-
stealing?” Mr. McAllister asked
waggishly.
Mr. Buckmaster laughed
heartily at the joke.
■pANIC abated, they dropped
from their clumsy trot to a
walk. The lamb breathed warmly
on Jack’s bare arm, while the
other end of it, which Jim sup-
ported, wriggled vigorously. A
Dr, Jekyll and Mr. Hyde of a
lamb. A strong and determined,
but, on the whole, a captivating
lamb. A fiendishly heavy lamb.
They moved in a half-circle,
and soon they were back on the
banks of the familiar river.
They almost trod on her. It
was the queerest thing. Just as
you can be unaware of a rabbit
flntil, looking down, you see the
small terrified creature crouched
behind a tuft of grass at your
feet, so they were unaware of the
girl until, with a shock of electric
surprise, they saw her; not at
their feet, exactly, but only a
yard away, lying on a blanket,
blanched by the moonlight.
Only it was a toss-up which
was the more terrified. Nothing
was said. It was all so extra-
ordinarily quick, so beautifully
eerie. One moment they were
plodding through the flailing
suckers. Nothing before and
beneath them but more suckers,
and the dark earth. The next—
the girl was there, on a • dark-
grey blanket, imperiously list-
less, regally white. Short fair
hair dusted by the moon, slim
white body like the moonlight
itself, as pure and unsubstantial.
An image that would trouble
them for years.
Yet all this a matter of
seconds, for they hardly broke
their uneven stride. Just the one
glance down—and on. But their
awed and greedy eyes took in
every secret detail—and the
girl’s wide eyes never left them.
As any hare might stare at a
hunter, too amazed for fear.
Less than a second, really.
For, as soon as she saw two big-
shouldered, wild-eyed boys
carrying a sheep her white hands
darted down and tugged the rug
to her chin and held it there. But
long enough for a lifetime.
Quite long enough for the night.
That long, amazed look held
them all —even when the boys
were shying away, like a pair of
young colts. Out of the corner
of his eye Jim could see the
black bonnet of a car among the
trees.
A COUPLE of hundred yards
■f*' on Jack said “That was
funny.”
“Yes,” Jim said. They said
no more. Tomorrow, perhaps,
they would be full of knowing
comment. Now they were too
profoundly, painfully stirred.
Not tonight.
“This is it!”
Jim looked around him, a little
dazed. But this was it, all right.
Second Beach. The white sand
shelved down to the dark river,
and there was the cluster of wil-
lows on the other side. He re-
leased his hold on the lamb and
fished in the sack for the
butcher’s-knife.
Jack lowered the lamb and
held him between his knees.
“Right-oh!” he said. “Go
ahead.”
“Eh?”
“Go on,” Jack said impati-
ently. “Cut his throat.”
Jim looked down at the
butcher’s-knife, a blade of
moonlight in his hand.
“I thought you’d do that,” he
said slowly.
“No,” Jack snapped. “Go on
—hurry up. We haven’t got all
night.”
“Nearly morning now, any-
way,” Jim said. “But you kill
him, Jack. Here”—he offered
the butcher’s-knife. “I thought
you were going to do it all the
time. I’ve never killed a sheep.
“Neither have I!”
Brown eyes stared into grey.
“But I thought on Din-
Din T , ~
“Never killed one,” Jack said.
“Anyway —wouldn’t like to kill
this little bloke. Eat him,
though. By cripes, yes. But you
kill him.” ,
“I don’t think I’d like to ku
him, either,” Jim said, bending
oyer. “Although I’ll eat him, or
course. My oath.” „
“Well, we can’t eat him alive,
Jack said testily. “What’ll we
do 99
They looked at the lamb for
inspiration. The lamb ntmW
Jim’s shirt and began (Wheal 1V
to nibble at it, lured by the salt
° f .Ct P iik a e Tpoddy." lack said
en "to y -kil. him.” said
Jll “We’d better take him back, I
s’pose,” Jack said at last.
“I suppose so if you
ka w«h a burst of laughter they
lifted the lamb and started
the long trip back,


FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
Catherine Gaskin
A sincere and moviijg story of the destructive power of love. Miss
Gaskin at the age of 23, and in this her fifth novel, shows that she
now has a mature and warm understanding of problems of the heart.
DAUGHTER OF THE HOUSE
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
DANGEROUS SNAKES
OF AUSTRALIA,
by Eric Worrell
Brilliant photographs and descrip-
tions of all our venomous snakes
and the treatment of their bites.
10/6 (post 5d.)
READER’S DIGEST
OMNIBUS
foreword by H. E. Bates
A handsome volume to celebrate
the 30th birthday 6f the world’s
most widely read magazine.
18/9 (post 1/3)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagh St., Sydney :: 66-68 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l
which Robinson reproduces the simple,
rhythmic style in which they were
related to him. Unlike the average
academic collector of legends, Roland
Robinson has a writer’s sense for the
humanities and a poet’s feeling for words
and cadence: —
And the old woman went on crushing the
plums until she had ground a deep round
hole in the rock. And she made many
heaps of this damper and gave it to the girls
to eat. And there was so much damper
that the girls could not finish it up, but
after eating of it they were all turned into
the devils called Marm.
Suppose you were to camp in this place
of devils, you would hear someone sing out.
You would look up among the rocks, or in
the grass. You would go over to where the
voice came from. There would be no-one
there. Then, from another place, you
would hear someone cutting a tree for
“sugar-bag.” You would go over and
there would be no-one.
These devils sing out from one place;
you go over, and they sing out from another
different place. Suppose you go alone and
camp in that place. You see a fire through
the trees. You hear a piccaninny crying,
you hear the sound of talk-talk. You go
over and there is nothing there. Suppose
you stay in that place. You go mad. You
never find those devils Marm.
And all that country around is called
Woomboo, the country of the devils.
Not all the legends are told in this
rhythmical blackfallows’ pidgin, but all
have the same admirable simplicity ; the
dialogue always sounds like genuine abo-
riginal talk. Some are very slight, with
only the rhythmical charm and a touch
of poetry or oddity to hold the interest.
Others, including several which were first
printed in The Bulletin the stories of
Dooruk, the old emu-woman who was
pestered by small boys; and Nabonkit-
kit, the stone-country devil, climbing up
a tree which grows higher and higher as
he climbs it; and the old eaglehawk-
woman who used dancing girls to entice
boys to her camp so that she might kill
and eat them —have the strange, magical
conviction of the best folk-lore in any
language and would be read with as much
pleasure by both children and adults as
the lighter sketches of Grimm or Hans
Andersen.
It is a rare achievement in the sympa-
thetic presentation of aboriginal legends,
and one wishes the book were longer.
Lachlan Macquarie
The new edition of M. H. Ellis’s
Lachlan Macquarie, His Life, Adventures
and Times by Angus and Robertson is a
credit to Australian book-production, and
worthy a work that stands with, say,
Evatt’s life of Holman, among the very
few Australian biographies of the first
rank.
The magnitude of this biographer’s task
may be gauged from the bibliography at
the end of the book; a ten-page list in
close print of State papers, histories,
memoirs, letters, historical records—
thousands and thousands of pages of
writing and print to be read, digested,
assessed, weighed against each other,
interpreted, and run into a clear and fluid
narrative, every important fact numbered
and ticketed in the reference-notes; the
artist at every turn checked by the clerk
at the card-index.
From all these labors emerges a picture,
not so much of Macquarie, who was solid
and incorruptible rock, as of the currents
that eddied around him and dashed up
against him. No complexities of spirit,
no doubts of the validity of his policies,
troubled Macquarie; he was as four-
square and Georgian as his buildings, and
offers no secret passageways or hidden
rooms to the connoisseur of mental
rarities.
But around him, what a gallery of
specimens; Jeffery Bent, a brother of
Jabberwocky, refusing to sit in court on
his own sharp point of law, a judge
refusing to pay road-tolls, an olficer-of-
State refusing to stand when others stood
to honor the King’s representative, his
mind a secret scream of febrile vanity
and outraged dignity ; the Rev. Samuel
Marsden, blacksmith-clergyman-flogger,
who sailed to convert the natives of New
Zealand with gifts of rifles and neglected
the aborigines of his own parish, who
invented stories of ill-treatment of women
convicts to bring the upright Wilberforce
in on the side of Macquarie’s English
enemies, who took delivery of a library
of books subscribed for the people and
kept it for himself ; Bigge, the supercilious
lamb from London, sent to report on the
colony, who became the prey of the
greatest vulture of them all, Macarthur,
whose gift of malignancy was equalled
only by his ability to use it to his own
profit, whose aim was to create an Aus-
tralian aristocracy of great landholders
served by convict labor.
Besides these full-length studies,
Ellis sketches-in minor entertainers like
Robinson, Macquarie’s ex-blackmailer
poet-laureate, who gave evidence against
his patron’s secretary, Campbell, when
Campbell was accused of writing an
article saying that Samuel Marsden was
a religious impostor and took arms to the
islands; and Colonel Molle, the
Lieutenant-Governor, who turned Sydney
upside-down in a rage to find the author
of a pipe, or satire, in couplets, upon him,
fearing that it had been written by one
of his own officers, but was overcome with
joy and relief when Dr. D’Arcy Went-
worth confessed that the satire had been
produced by his son William, then in
England.
Macquarie has been spoken of as an
autocrat; but this book shows the real
and practical limits of his powers. The
Army, by which he ruled, could insult
his emancipist-guests in his own dining-
room ; an Army-captain could flog Mac-
quarie’s emancipist architect, and get off
with a light fine after having “flagrantly
insulted the Bench”.; a sulking judge
could leave the colony for a year without
justice; Tasmania had to be left to the
mercy of bushrangers and a drunken
Lieutenant-Governor appointed from
London. When two drunken Army-
lieutenants killed a householder in a row
over a woman, and were fined one shilling
each and sentenced to six months’ prison
for “manslaughter,” all Macquarie could
do was complain of the “intemperate and
disgraceful conduct” of the officers; and
the Navy could put the Harbor-Master in
irons, riot through Sydney, and depart—
H.M.S. Semarang, commander Captain
Case, R.N. —firing a broadside into the
trading-vessel Governor Macquarie for
not dipping her colors, boarding her with
cutlasses and impressing six of the crew
without the Governor being able to do
more than protest.
S.uch may well be said to have been a
limited autocracy, in which firmness had
to be mingled with discretion: the great-
ness of Macquarie may well have been his
refusal to take affronts to his office as
personal insults: his eye was always on
the policy to be carried out and the job
to be done —the encouragement of
emancipists, the construction of roads,
the building of offices and churches, the
hanging of bushrangers, the befriending
of aborigines, the exploration of rivers,
the establishment of towns. He worked
with speed and sureness: his finger ran
across a map, and a road followed it to
Bathurst; he visited Newcastle, decided
on the spot to run a causeway out to Coal
Island (Nobby’s), and next day the first
stone was laid with “Macquarie Pier” cut
into it, and the work continued.
At the time of accepting his com-
mission, Macquarie had arrived home
from India, his pockets full of Indian
profits (some, it must be admitted, from
the provisioning of non-existent soldiers)
with the idea of founding an estate or
Isle of Mull. These instincts of a Set
laird were transmuted, on a larger le.
into the building of Australia: it -.vas
small enough, when he came to it,
treated as a country squire’s estate
it is as such that one sees him, kina to
the tenantry, and very harsh with
poachers. It is small wonder that, on
resigning his commission and returning to
Scotland, he should burst into tears on
the leaking threshold of the temporary
house on his own grounds—all his build-
ing had been fof the public service ; it
was too late to build again for himself.
The biographer who spends twenty
years in study generally acquires some-
thing of the atmosphere of his subject;
and if we have to thank Macquarie for
Australia’s first vision of a planned and
solidly-based future, we can thank M. H.
Ellis for having pushed back the jungle
of time and having erected this serene
and beautifully-proportioned mansion to
fourteen of the most important years of
our history.
R. McC.
Reviewed Briefly
A King Reluctant: Vaughan Wilkins
(Cape). Recipe: Take one great and two
small historical mysteries, season with a
beautiful cigar-smoking American heiress,
strain the bounds of probability almost,
but not quite, to breaking-point, and
serve. Will be relished by those who
enjoy light historical fiction, and concerns
mainly the still mysterious fate of the
tragic boy-king Louis XVII. The novel
begins with his arrival in a Welsh church-
yard by—of all things—balloon ; and see-
saws back and forth between Wales and
revolutionary France.
* * * *
Confessions of a Golf Addict: George
Houghton (Museum Press, London).
George Houghton tells you in a breezy
black-and-white (both in prose and draw-
ings) what you have been doing and say-
ing about golf over the years. It is really
a satirical sketch of the author’s own
golfing dife, with very amusing anecdotes
and experiences from all over England,
Scotland and France.
* * * *
There She mows,: ttakon Middle
(Hodge). Down south with a modern
Norwegian whaling actory-shlp. Hie
seventh travel-book by tbs » i arious
and lightly-entertaining writer, who has
prev’ done most of his wandering a
ooutn America. The material is paducu ,
half-way through the book the author is
still at Curacao, describing what other
tourists see ; but eventually he does get
to the Antarctic, and there- are storms,
and whales, and the carnage on the decks
when the great beasts are cut up, stories
of wild doings by whalers of the early
days, and a full account of how the
industry is run today—a light, superficial
book, but mildly amusing and informative.
GUM-TREES STRIPPING
Say the need’s born within the tree,
and waits a trigger set for light;
say sap is tidal like the sea
and rises with the solstice-heat;
but wisdom shells the words away
to watch this fountain slowed in air
where sun joins earth—-to watch the place
at which these silent rituals are.
7 /
Words are not meanings for a tree.
So it is truer not to say
“these rags look like humility,
or this year’s wreck of last year’s love,
or wounds ripped by the summer’s claw.”
If it is possible to be wise
here, wisdom liea outside the word
in the earlier answer of the eyes.
Wisdom can see the red, the rose,
the stained and sculptured curve of grey,
the charcoal scars of fire, and see
around that living tower of tree
the hermit tatters of old bark
split down and strip to end the season;
and can be quiet and not look
for reasons past the edge of reason.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 212
Across. !is-
- brings a man to miss one
whose works are struck for May,
perhaps. (5-5)
s—Tip5—Tip of the French legislator. (4)
B—Two8 —Two little boys in South Africa.
(5)
10 —Arts back in the ocean, so turn
to locate an oyster. (9)
12 — Rat is to have an English drama
critic as its candidate. (8)
1 3 — The tea across the channel stream
of oblivion. (5)
16—A contemporary French com-
poser and you and a largo go
oft it with regard to the ear. (9)
lg—Peer at money of the French
slanderer. (5)
1 9 —Bacon production is Playford’s
responsibility by the sound of it.
(5)
<1 —Two girls are composed of little
tiles. (9)
2 3 —Hughes boiler. (5)
—Do I take the stage with a waist-
coat that is all most nimble? (8)
—Says “Howdy Franchotl” with
some precipitation. (9)
29 — Job kindled the wrath of this
BUzite. (5)
30 — Thirty-one days with a Central
American. (4)
31— Tall structure uses food as if it
were tobacco. (10)
Down.
1 — Look out, you!—he knows how
you think of one who is terrified
of Ginger Meggs’s girl. (4-6)
2 Bird stands over an enormous
fellow. (5)
3 One mail has nothing behind
schedule in a gospeller’s office.
(10)
4 Grub. (4)
6 Alice Hunt is disorderly and
immoral. (9)
7 Bridge may supersede this kick
bet. (4)
9 —Art of reasoning. (5)
11—P.M. beginning? Correct! (5)
14— Irritable pattern for draughts to
make doufily sure. (5-5)
15 — Movie-mad Hollywoodite downed
tools. (4-6)
17 —Country quality with ego keeping
corrosion away from the big
smoke. (9)
20 —Outcries. (5 )
22—Cut off a syllable hat with
extreme ease. (5)
25 The end of a continent heath. (5)
26 — Comrade is much altered. (4)
27 The hollow report prosperity in
a hat<bor bar. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 211


■Mm.
KvA
igl
s^;S
l&-
%\
VS
•&
f' - •
'S4A&
v?
mi
VVN
•‘iV
wes|s
588
&
-'rE\3
H ASTIR
; •>.-;
a^s
I • . *5
». rir''- ■» »• •■; rs
1
✓r-v
«s
CS\
sf'M
m
•'»
• w* S>
**\
fE© 58
W
%
tf-t
w
i,.,
//
m
/:(
% \
1’ i j,A *• ;V? • s ’-'^aa
&
V *;/►:;
(•A
* <•
lies northward...
Thinking Australians realise that the State offering greatest opportunity for tist
expansion of primary production and greatest encouragement for investment is
Queensland, where national development is our national defence.
—■:-.r.';‘ , ‘ i ~*^~
M
ms
■ 1 ■ f '■ :
■x\ ii|T"~~B||» .. an mha
mm
•:• •••.-.
mmi
g OlESElSifll
430.000 ALREADY SUBSCRIBED • 170.000 AVAILABLE
Hastings Diesels Limited has now added the State
of Queensland to its area of representation for
the great Caterpillar Tractor Co. This represen-
tation now covers practically the entire Pacific
basin, and is one of the largest Caterpillar Dealer-
ships in the world.
In Queensland, which will figure so prominently in
the near-future food drive for Australia, Hastings
Diesels has added the representation of the world-
famous John Deere Tractors and agricultural
Implements to this wholly owned subsidiary.
The opportunity to win sure and regular dividends
from these vast, expanding activities is offered
you with the 170,000 ordinary shares at £1 each
in Hastings Diesels Limited.
Hastings Deering Building, William Street. SYDNEY
Pbone M 0412 (33 lines)
HIGHLY SUCCESSFUL INVESTMENT ASSURED
in The Hastings Deering Group of Companies.
Regular dividends have now returned 100% to original
investors.
The first 100,000 shares in Hastings Diesels Limited
were taken up by the Shareholders in our group
of companies within two weeks of publication of
the prospectus.
Hastings Deering's have themselves taken up
£325,000 of the original authorised capital.
HASTINGS DIESELS PROFITS
PROFITS
1950 .. .. £8,136 5.5%1
1951 .. .. £11,790 9.2% [ DIVIDENDS
1952 .. .. £48,779 39%J
Capital = £lOO,OOO
CATTLE PROPERTY; 50-year leases for 2,600
square miles adjacent to Alice Springs.
COUPON FOR APPLICATION FORM
The Secretary.
Hastings Diesels Limited,
William Street, Sydney.
Please forward me Prospectus for your new issue
of ordinary shares.
My name
Address
.State.
8122
