

FOR PORT WINE OF DISTINCTION , BUY
SEPPELTS ROYAL PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
ARTIST GEORGE LAMBERT
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74—No. 3841
Wednesday, September 23, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
IN THIS ATOMIC AGE
H.M.S. VICTORY
STILL PROCLAIMS THE
NELSON SPORIT
ONE hundred and forty seven years ago the
course of history was altered by the Battle
of Trafalgar when the British fleet, under Lord
Nelson, won a great naval victory over the
combined French and Spanish fleets under
Villcneuve on October 21. 1805. This famous
battle takes its name from a cape on the south
coast of Spain near which it was fought.
The English victory at Trafalgar shattered the
power of France and of Spain at sea at a time
when Napoleon was master of Europe and
preparations were being made for the invasion
of Britain. This victory also prepared the way
for the Anglo-Russian treaty to resist the
encroachments of France and of ultimately
securing Europe’s independence.
In the presence of a large crowd, Nelson sailed
from Southsea beach in the Victory, a ship
which was launched in 1765 and was already old
when Nelson chose her for her good sailing
qualities. Before Trafalgar she served as the
flagship of Howe at the relief of Gibraltar in
1782. It is interesting to note that she bore the
name of a former Victory which was the flag-
ship of Sir John Hawkyns at the defeat of the
Spanish Armada in 1588.
Nelson’s ship, H.M.S. Victory, was a vessel
of 2,160 tons with a gun deck of 186 feet, and
at Trafalgar she carried 104 cannon, and her
broadside discharge of shot was 1,160 pounds.
When launched at Chatham, she was the pride
of the Navy.
Before the Nelson disposed his ships
in such a way as to lure the enemy fleet, con-
sisting of forty vessels, out of Cadiz. In the
ensuing battle nineteen of the enemy’s ships
were captured and one was blown up; the
prisoners numbered 12,000. The British loss
was 450 killed and 1250 wounded. Nelson’s
last order before being killed by a musket-ball
was the historic utterance “England expects
every man this day to do his duty.”
After Trafalgar the Victory was preserved as
a guardship near Gosport until 1921 when she
was moved into H.M. Dockyard at Portsmouth
and restored to her original condition. She now
lies in all her majestic glory, a relic of the past
and an inspiration for the future. The cockpit
in which Nelson died is preserved as the prin-
cipal shrine of the British Navy and is visited
by many thousands of people every year. During
the Second World War this famous ship had a
narrow escape from total destruction when a
bomb fell between her and the dock wall and
exploded beneath her, blowing a hole near her
keel.


The Red Page
SHAW'S TRANSLATOR
Writing his autobiography in his
eighties, Chronicle of a Life (Heinemann),
Siegfried Trebitsch presents himself as
an author in his own right to a world
which knows him only as the Austrian
translator and protagonist of Shaw ; but
he does not press the point, and, indeed,
had his early life not been the struggle
of a rich young man to earn the freedom
of the literary artist, he might never
have met Shaw.
Trebitsch’s father died when Trebitsch
was very young; his mother married his
uncle, who had promised the dying
brother to look after the family, and
took this complete way of fulfilling his
very strong sense of duty. The boy was
brought up to succeed to the manage-
ment of the family factories ; he became
an officer in the Austrian Army and, at
Imperial manoeuvres, was aide-de-camp
to a General. There he received a
colonel’s instructions under the awful
eye of the Emperor Franz Josef himself,
dashed away, gave the two sets of instruc-
tions to the wrong commanding-officers
and returned, after the manoeuvres had
been carried out, to the colonel’s con-
gratulations. The colonel had been as
flustered as Trebitsch by the Imperial
presence and had given his orders
wrongly; Trebitsch’s mistake had
corrected them.
Even in his commercial-college train-
ing there was a martial atmosphere ; they
were the days when young men fought
duels, and he fought some himself, and
has many stories to tell of duelling, per-
haps the best being of the cadet who
insulted another and would not accept
his challenge on the ground that the chal-
lenger was a Jew. After some days
Baron Gradl, Garrison Commander of
Vienna, rode into the barracks square,
had the cadets paraded, spoke of grave
rumors that had reached him and rose
to his climax;
“Anyone who has been brought up from
birth to think nobly and act in a chivalrous
way is entitled to demand honorable satis-
faction, no matter where his cradle may
have stood —even if he were a fuzzy-
wuzzy! ”
The General concluded that, if he were
not told within twenty-four hours that
satisfaction had been given, the offender
would be expelled from the detachment.
The affair ended two mornings later with
the happy news that the two cadets were
now in hospital with severe wounds.
Trebitsch travelled widely for his
education and on behalf of his
firm; Italy, Turkey, the United
States. He began to write short-
stories. On a visit to a castle near
Prague he met the; young poet Rilke ;
walking outside the castle in enchanted
moonlight, they confirmed each other’s
literary ambitions, and Rilke’s next book,
reached him on his return to Vienna with
a poem addressed to him in Rilke’s writ-
ing on the front page. He met more great
names; Schnitzler and Salten, a journa-
list passionately fond of hunting and
shooting, best known to the world, if at
all, as the creator of “Bambi.”
Next, in France on his firm’s business,
Trebitsch was holidaying at Luchon with
an actress, and in the summer theatre
there saw a play called “Boubouroehe” by
the young poet of Montmartre, Georges
Courteline. Courteline was acting in his
piece ; Trebitsch made his acquaintance,
suggested a German translation, signed a
contract in Paris, hurried back to Vienna,
made his translation and had it acted
in Vienna. Courteline became his friend
for life, and introduced him to Catulle
Mendes, and thus it was that he heard
the intriguing story, years later, of how
Mendes broke with his mistress-of-many-
years upon finding that all that time she
had loved another. The lady had a new
technique of deception; her secret lover
stayed in a closet or inner-room while
Mendes was there, and left when Mendes
left, and thus was safer than if he tried
to arrive when Mendes was away. Who
says that nothing practical can be learned
from books?
With publication in Berlin of his first
novel, Convalescence, Trebitsch satisfied
his stepfather’s condition that he should
have some literary success before aban-
doning his business career; he was free
to take up writing as a profession, except
that he had to finalise some matters in
London for his business successor. From
the Berlin art-critic and German trans-
lator of Ibsen, Julias Elias, whom h© had
met while visiting Fischer, his Berlin
publisher, Trebitsch took to England with
him a letter of introduction to William
Archer, the English translator of Ibsen:
“He often writes to me in utter despair
about the state of the English theatre, and
1 think a discussion with him ought to give
you a good idea of the lie of the land.”
Tro r ■■ . , , ... ...
n i e i tsch had w f ltten “ Viennese
„ T tiClSing the - Lond ° n
ALt\ Seen °n Pmvious visits,
t M S f e " the , artlcles -
ot\; r Ch i h f'f 1S mistake was m
, ntVu 8 lt . was . the English
p y which could not gain production
on° mme^ Cia ea ? eS tha u we " e th l
and , wrote do , wn l h r e y les of
p; ~S »/ lree V ° Plays Unpleasant,
ays leasant and Plays tor Puritans.
» Vienna, in raptures over
dida, Trebitsch could get no hear-
ng among producers for his crazy
Irishman , more French adventures
supervened, and then Archer reminded
him that he had promised to return to
London. Arriving full of enthusiasm
for Shaw, he secured an introduction
from Archer to the playwright, Shaw
was polite, but when Trebitsch broached
his business
Shaw jumped up and ran upstairs in a
flash. I heard him call out: “Charlotte,
here’s a young lunatic Archer’s sent me
whom I won’t be able to make see reason!
You come and try to calm him down. Per-
haps you’ll manage it.”
But Mrs. Shaw calmed Shaw down ;
they talked of copyright; “the thin crust
of embitterment that covered the real
character of this underestimated writer,
who, though in prime of his life,
was not yet recognised, began to
crumble....”
They finally agreed that Trebitsch
should translate three plays in a year,
and either find a publisher or a stage
for them during that time, or hand back
the rights. Trebitsch went immediately
to work in Vienna on “The Devil’s
Disciple,” which he called “Ein Teufel-
skerl” (“The Devil of a Chap”),
“Candida” and “Arms and die Man,”
which he called “Helden” (“Heroes”).
He kept the plays circulating among pub-
lishers, add they were finally accepted by
the big publishing-firm of Cotta, which
had previously rejected them. Within
nine months of his agreement with Shaw
the premiere of “The Devil’s Disciple”
was announced by the Vienna Raimund-
theatre; an ageing but brilliant actor,
Karl Wiene, was brought from Dresden
Court theatre for the part, and “the
audience was not grudging in its
applause.”
Slowly, year by year, Shaw plays made
their impression on Vienna and Berlin.
The “strangest fate” was of “Mrs.
Warren’s Profession.” Rejected by all
theatres, put on at last with grave fears
by the Raimundtheatre, Gettke, the
director, still certain it would be a com-
plete flop, this turned into the greatest
success of the season ; the part of Mrs.
Warren “proved to have immense
attractions for the leading actresses of
the day”:—
What greatly helped me in my task of
campaigning for Shaw, from the days of
those first productions onwards, was the
recognition that here was a writer for the
theatre who was—perhaps without intend-
ing it —at the same time a pre-eminent
writer of great roles.
The story of Shaw’s success in Ger-
man continues and grows with the names
of such as Reinhardt, the “phenomenal
triumph of ‘Pygmalion,’ ” which estab-
lished Shaw on firm ground, the Berlin
success of “Misalliance” with a young
actress brought from Vienna, where she
had been acting a‘small but impressive
part in “Broadway”—Marlene Dietrich ;
it was in this Shaw play that Sternberg,
the film-producer, discovered her.
Trebitsch was Shaw’s translator and
friend to the end ; he was with him at
the first Malvern festival; Shaw trans-
lated his play “Jitta’s Atonement,” and,
refusing to alter a word of his own plays,
altered the whole treatment of Trebitsch’s
—it became a New York success ; and
on the outbreak of World War I Shaw
sent Trebitsch a telegram:
“You and lat war, and enemies? What
nonsense!”
The First World War, which Trebitsch
chronicles as “The End of the World,”
found him in his middle-forties; not
eager to make use of his early military
training, he spent it for the most part in
the administrative sections of home-
hospitals, pleased enough when an Army-
doctor’s mistake prevented his being sent
to the front in the dark days when they
were calling-up older men. He describes
Rilke’s hopeless efforts as a recruit be-
fore he was hauled out into the records-
office ; and the anguish of his stepbrother,
a doctor who had never practised, who
was forced because of his title into a
forward hospital. The unhappy man
worried himself into a nervous break-
down over his inexpert treatment of
wounded men, and rather than go back
to mangle more he killed himself in
hospital.
Before World War II he fled with his
wife to France, leaving his house to the
Nazi occupation of Vienna, feeling
lucky enough to get out. He spent the
war in Switzerland, returning after it
was over to a Vienna which no longer
represented much that he loved, but
which feted him as a great German
literary figure, especially for his trans-
lations of Shaw.
The book is much more than a foot-
note to Shaw. For most English readers
it will be an introduction from the in-
side to a world of European writing we
meet only on the polished surfaces of
fiction: Barth, the Viennese critic who
first acclaimed Duse, who was warned-
off journalism by his doctor in late
middle-age, and retired to make a further
success as an author, and who liked
nothing better than to back his pen with
his sword ; Hofmannsthal, whose plays
“Electra” and “Rosenkavalier” were
successful on the stage before Richard
Strauss turned them into opera, for
whom Reinhardt created the Salzburg
Festival, whose heart broke when his
son, after a violent argument, shot him-
self dead in the next room; Thomas
Mann ; Gerhart Hauptmann; Fischer,
the great German publisher, whose busi-
ness was taken-over by the Nazis;
Zweig the biographer, and his strange
suicide in South America; and Gals-
worthy, whom Trebitsch wanted to con-
sult between wars over the Vienna branch
of the Pen Club. Shaw went with him;
To my surprise the maid did not ask his
name, but hastily disappeared behind a
curtain that concealed a door. Before we
had followed her as far as the threshold,
she returned and threw wide the door to
another .room. At this moment John
Galsworthy rushed towards us in joyful
excitement', exchanged a fleeting handshake
with me, and immediately put his arm
through Shaw’s and drew Shaw into his
study, where the two of them, taking no
notice of me, sat down side by ‘side on a
comfortable sofa, immersed in eager talk
Suddenly Shaw raised his voice and
called out to me: “You know, the thing
is we haven’t had a talk together for thirty
years!”
For readers who imagine great literary
contemporaries as members of the same
club, such reminiscences are a constant
surprise.
BERCEUSE: NEWCASTLE
It’s always sunset in the east
With a roddle-toddle-toddle
When the night-furnace is in blast
With a roddle-toddle-toddle,
And all night long the rolling-mill
Goes roddle-toddle-toddle;
A minute’s pause when all is still.
Then—roddle-toddle-toddle.
Shaking the windows in their frames
With roddle-toddle-toddle,
Blurring the contours of my dreams
With roddle-toddle-toddle;
But should the windows cease to shake
With the roddle-toddle-toddle,
Would I sleep sounder, or awake
From the roddle-toddle-toddle?
The roddle-toddle-toddle,
Roddle-toddle-toddle
N.S.W.
RONALD McCUAIG.
More Cricket
In A Century of Cricketers (published
1950) A. G. Moyes drew pen-pictures of
a hundred of the greatest among bats-
men and bowlers, English, Australian
and others. Now he has set a closer
field and concentrated on Australian
bowlers —with one exception, the English-
man Bosanquet, who gets in because of
his discovery of the “bosey.”
Australian Bowlers (Angus and Robert-
son) analyses the averages and perform-
ances of all the great Test bowlers of
the period indicated by the sub-title,
“From Spofforth to Lindwall,” which,
after all, is just about the whole of
Australian cricket.
No attempt is made to assess every
Test bowler —there would probably be
little point in so doing. Several bowlers
who played in only one or two Tests
are dismissed in half a sentence and
others (e.g., Nagel and Nash) are not
mentioned. Yet perhaps these men and
others never picked for a Test deserve a
place in a book of such scope—as, for
instance, Eddie Gilbert, the Queensland
aboriginal fast-bowler of the ’thirties.
Still, all the giants are fully and com-
petently dealt with; including, at the
end, Iverson, whom Moyes considers a
star of the first magnitude, though
destined to shine so briefly.
Moyes insists that figures alone can’t
tell the whole story. In assessing the
worth of his champions he also takes
into account the quality of opposing
batsmen (and some of their opinions),
changing l.b.w. and new-ball laws (which
might help or hinder certain types of
bowlers), and the different size of ball
and wicket at different times.
It was not the batsmen but the bowlers
(Spofforth, Turner, etc.) who first made
Australia a cricketing force. Of them
all, three bowlers perhaps stand out—
Spofforth (“The E)emon”), Turner (“The
Terror”) and, in more modern days,
O’Reilly (“The Tiger”). Who was the
greatest of all? Either Spofforth or
O’Reilly, Mpyes thinks.
The book gives an informative picture
of the variations in Australia’s attack
down the years : spearheaded at first by
Spofforth and Boyle; then Turner and
Ferris; the two-pronged speed-attack in
1921 of Gregory and McDonald (whom
Moyes thinks the greatest Australian
fast-bowler, though he is often regarded,
in relation to Gregory alone, as a “junior-
partner ’) ; the prime reliance on spin
(O’Reilly and Grimmett) in the ’thirties ;
and the return to speed (Lindwall, Miller
and Johnston) in the post-war days.
Without the flowery periods of Cardus,
Moyes writes clearly and straightfor-
wardly. Some of the bowlers having
been discussed in the earlier book, there
is some unavoidable repetition; but that
doesn’t matter. Most of his conclusions
will be generally acceptable, and he gives
numerous anecdotes and asides and
snippets of cricketing lore.
J. H. M. Abbott's Books
The first of J. H. M. Abbott’s score
of books was Tommy Cornstalk, of
which The Bulletin said when it was
published in 1902:
Of all the Australian contributors to the
literature of the Boer War there is none
more characteristically Australian, none more
interesting than Tommy Cornstalk, by J.
H. M. Abbott, corporal of the First Aus-
tralian Horse. The writer plunges at
once into a series of impressions of what
struck him most vividly.
However, his Plain and Veldt did not
impress The Bulletin critic, who com-
plained that although several of the
sketches were of no common calibre
“their impression is temporary, evanes-
cent. They want pulse of life, breath
of power. The whole book trails, nerve-
less and fatigued. Abbott has many
of the qualities of a memorable writer.
He lacks just one quality essential-
strength.”
A third book, An Outlander in Eng-
land, consisted of sketches of English
life, some of which were printed in the
“Spectator.” About the same time was
published The South Seas, an A. and C.
Black “Peeps at Many Lands” book for
children. Abbott was then engaged in
freelance journalism in London.
Abbott’s next book, Letters from
Queer-street, is in the form of a series
of letters written by a John Mason, home-
less and starving in London. When
Mason is in funds —that is, when he has
6d. to pay for a night’s lodging—he
writes these letters to friends in Aus-
tralia. The only address he gives is
Queer-street, in which, he explains, the
only shops are pawnshops. Like Abbott,
John Mason had been in the Boer War.
After Mason is expelled from a club for
a drunken assault on a member he starts
on the down-grade. Abbott tells the
story of Mason’s decline through letters
written without self-pity, with philosophy,
and with a stubborn, pathetic humor.
It is a moving picture of a wreck.
Abbott became occupied with early
Australian history upon his return to
Australia about 1910. For more than
30 years he wrote historical stories for
(Continued on page 35)
THE BIRTH
A wreath of flowers, as cold as snow
Breaks out in bloom upon the night:
That tree is rooted in the dark,
It draws from dew its breath of life,
it feeds on frost, it hangs in air
And like a glittering branch of stars
Receives, gives forth, its breathing light.
Eight times it flowered in the dark,
Eight times my hand reached out to break
That icy wreath to bear away
Its pointed flowers beneath my heart.
Sharp are the pains and long the way
Down, down into the depths of night
Where one goes for another’s sake.
Once more it flowers, once more I go
In dream at midnight to that tree,
1 stretch my hand and break the branch
And hold it to my human heart.
Now, soft as petals of a rose
Those flowers unfold and grow to me—
I speak as of a mystery.
n.s.w.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


I
i
m
m
srs.
/Sr
e?i?
sx
A
s®ss
Frankly, I never shop
anywhere else but
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ NURSERY SHOP
Mot Hers (and Granmas playing fairy godmother) come to Anthony Horderns’ first.
Because here in our Nursery Shop you know you will find every piece of furniture a baby
could want. And all in the one spot! Just phone M 2401, we’ll reserve whatever you
want or deliver it to your home within a week. We’ve new, imaginative ways of housing
your baby.. A pram that folds up to become a stroller, fits easily in the boot of a car. A cot
that folds up ... so small you can carry it. Lightweight strollers, a complete tea-set of
table and chairs for your older children. When you’re buying for baby, come to Anthony
Horderns’ Nursery Shop first! Nursery Shop. Fourth Floor.
A. Reedtes Basinette. Lac cream.
Castors. £5/11/-. Fibre mat-
tress 12/11, Tetramattress 17/5.
Plastic cover 7/9.
B. Portable Basinette for use in
car. An adult can carry it
easily. Soft, pliable natural cane,
£3/2/6.
C. The Graham Cot folds to a
small portable unit. Dark oak
colour. £ll/13/9. Fibre mat-
tress £3/3/9. Inner Spring
£B/3/10.
D. Steelcraft Folding Pramette
folds to a pusher, fits into boot
of car. Deep comfortable bed
with quilted, padded, hygienic
linings. Adjustable back-rest
with luggage-compartment. Bur-
gundy, grey, fawn, green, navy,
fin. white tyres. Has latest Eng-
lish "scissors” springing.
£l5/17/- or £3/17/- deposit.
E. Roomy Play Pen. fin. dowels.
£3/7/2. Floor to fit is 36/9
extra.
F. Cyclops “Nibs” Chariot is a
lightweight quick-folding stroller.
Weighs only a few pounds. 99/9.
G. Commode Chair is replica of
high chair with enclosed parti-
tion for the commode. £2/12/-.
H. High Chair in pretty cream,
blue, pink lacquer. Pretty trans-
fer. Very good splay on legs.
67/2.
J. Table and Chairs Set of split
mottled cane is a perfect gift for
any child. Masonite top on table.
Chair, £2/4/-. Table. £2/12/6.
Settee priced at £4/16/-,
TRUTH IN ADVERTiSiNG
ttthony Borienis
sdf
Phone Orders M 2401, Mail Orders to Box 2712, G.P.O.
?il
J
m
mem m
mm
\%
\
WWW
-- - ■--:'
a
m
k\
ui


Calls for Action
Can These Birds Be Saved?
By A. H. CHISHOLM
THERE is no need to go beyond Aus-
traha for instances of pigeon-
slaughter on a large scale. This
country, indeed, is ruthlessly wiping
out not merely one member of a pictur-
esque bird-family, as the Americans did
with the passenger-pigeon, but at least
nine or ten kinds,
The tally of Australian native pigeons
is imposing, there being fifteen ground-
feeders (including three doves) and nine
species that feed on fruit and berries,
Five of the ground-feeders and a couple
of the fruit-pigeons are confined to the
far north, and therefore are not well
known, but most of the others have had
the bad luck to come into frequent con-
tact with man along the east coast or on
the sheep-plains of the interior, with the
inevitable consequence that their ranks
ha ye _ been heavily reduced by destruction
ed feeding-grounds and by senseless
massacre.
Probably the only one of the nine
fruit-pigeons that is holding out reason-
ably well is the large-tailed bird known
as the brownie. Possessing more stamina
and adaptability than its relatives (these
qualities vary remarkably among many
birds that are closely related), the brown
pigeon is still quite abundant in various
parts of the east coast: much more so
than is, for example, its companion the
topknot pigeon. Anyway, how could the
unfortunate topknot (a hock-feeding
species) be expected to endure in face
of slaughter such as that recorded from
the Macleay River area some years ago?
—in one foray then 400 of the pigeons
were shot and only 75 used, the remaining
bodies being left to rot.
Two other fruit-eaters of the rain-
forests that have suffered severely are
“Bubbly Jock,” the wompoo or magnifi-
cent pigeon, and “Baldy,” the white-
headed pigeon. Glance at Cayley’s
What Bird Is That? for an indication of
the loveliness of these birds, and then
you will realise what a temptation they
present to the gunman who regards
beauty as something that must be
destroyed. Once upon a time both the
wompoo and white-head were moderately
common; today they are rare.
An even sorrier story is that of the
nutmeg or Torres Strait pigeon, a hand-
some bird —it is in general white, relieved
with black at the tips of the wings and
tail —which migrates from New Guinea
to North Queensland for breeding pur-
poses each springtime. In other years
the flights of Torres Strait pigeons used
to darken the sun, and the snowy bodies
in their thousands were apt to cause
tropic isles to break suddenly into masses
of white flowers.
“What a magnificent sight!” exclaimed
some watchers. “What a chance for our
guns!” said others. Accordingly, the
birds were slaughtered, at the height of
the breeding season, to the extent of
thousands each year—and that not for
the purpose of food but just by way of
“sporting,” sack-filling competitions—and,
as an inevitable result, where formerly it
was possible to see 50,000 pigeons in flight
above the tropic coast you would be lucky
now to see a batch of 50.
Saving of the Torres Strait pigeon is
an obligation that presses (or should be
pressing) heavily upon the Queensland
Government Wither the splendid
flights of old can be restored is an open
question. The one thing certain is that
unless effective action be taken to safe-
guard the bird, the tragedy of the
passenger-pigeon will be repeated.
As for the ground-feeding members
of the family, some of these are doing
fairly well the two bronzewings and the
crested pigeon actually increased when
ammunition was scarce in war-time —but
the plump and handsome wonga of east-
coast forests and the squatter and flock-
pigeons of the interior have fallen away
very considerably.
The squatter (a partridge-pigeon having
the habit when alarmed of crouching in
grass, or even lengthwise on the limb
of a tree) has not been able to with-
stand the competition of sheep and the
inroads of shooters; it is now distinctly
uncommon.
The flock-pigeon, too, appears to have
been affected by sheep and cattle, but in
this case there are complications— seventy
and more years ago the bird was re-
ported from the north-west of Queens-
land in “really ipcredible numbers”;
then it slipped from sight for a long
time; yet in the 1930’s to the astonish-
ment of oirdmen, a flock estimated at
100,000 individuals suddenly appeared
in one of the old haunts of the species.
No other such report has since been
made, but there seems reason to believe
that numbers of the birds (whose move-
ments are governed by food-supplies)
exist still in remote parts of the con-
tinent.
In the nature of the case, it is not easy
to suggest means by which either the
fruit- or ground-feeding pigeons of Aus-
tralia can be effectively safeguarded.
Even so, we cannot afford to continue
to do precisely nothing in the matter.
Effort is needed from, in particular, the
Governments of Queensland and New
South Wales.
On the Tram
(( | JERE’S our tram, Joan.
Nearly time, too. Will I be
I I glad to get a seat! There’s
nothing more tiring than a
day in town —it knocks me out more
than a day’s housework.”
“Me, too. My feet feel as if they
don’t belong to me. But it’s the
crowds—they make me so mad.”
“And this trudging from shop to
shop to get material. Anyway, I’m
glad we saw that beige shantung at
Bones’s. It should go well with that
little straw I’ve got. But I’m sorry
I didn’t get that extra half-yard—l
don’t think I’ll have enough for a
flared skirt, and I suppose it’ll all be
gone by the time I’m in again on
Friday. Ooh! There’s only stand-
ing room. Still, I suppose we’ll have
to take it. Alan will roar if his tea
isn’t ready.”
“Yes, men are selfish, aren’t they?
Only think of themselves. Will we
get in here?”
“No, it isn’t a smoker. Up near
the front, quick. Oh, dear, there’s
not even hanging-room there. Let’s
go towards the back. Here, this com-
partment will do. You go in first —
you’ve got more parcels.”
“No, you go in. Bet.”
"Hurry on, please !”
“The hide of him! Ordering us
about! And another time you
couldn’t get them to move off. My
heavens, they talk about courtesy to
the travelling public! Some of these
conductors want sacking. They
don’t do their job, either. I’ve seen
them standing talking to the driver
and never bothering to collect the
fares. No wonder the tramways
don’t pay—all right, then, but if
you’d put your feet under the seat
you wouldn’t get them trodden on.
Did you hear him, Joan? He
wouldn’t think of getting up and
offering his seat, of course.”
“Every time I say that to my hus-
band he says it serves me right for
leaving it till the peak-hour rush
starts before coming home. He says
it isn’t fair to those who’ve been
working hard all day to expect them
to give their seats up to women
who’ve been out enjoying them-
selves.”
“Enjoying themselves! I like
that! I don’t call shopping enjoy-
ing yourself. It’s a pity they didn’t
make husbands do the shopping now
and again and let them see for them-
selves how tiring it is. I guarantee
it’s harder work jostling among a
counter-full of women in a crowded
store than what some of the men
do. And we’ve got to go home now
and stand over a hot stove.
“Oh, and talking of that, Joan, I
thought that was good in that picture
we saw this morning when Claudette
Colbert was peeling the potato while
she was looking to see what was
going on out the window and she
almost peeled the whole thing away.
She’s good, isn’t she?”
“Yes, but I don’t like the way she
does her hair —it’s too short for her
age. She’s getting on now, you
know. I remember first seeing her
on the films ages ago.”
"Fez, please !’’
“Look, Bet, that man’s getting out
—grab the seat before someone else
does. Well, I like that! That woman
with the baby beat you to it. I never
saw anything so quick! There! It’s
started bawling now. I don’t know
why women bring babies into town.
It can’t be any pleasure lumping
them around. Some of them just do
it to show them off.”
"Fez, pl-e-a-s-e !’’
“Look, Joan, in the next compart-
ment. The one sitting next to the
old boy in the bowler—no, the one
this side, with the check skirt and
the black crew-neck jumper. That
amber-rhinestone necklace she’s
wearing is the image of mine, isn’t
it, except that the stones in the centre
are bigger and they’re a bit different
in shape. But fancy wearing a tight-
fitting jumper with a figure like hers
—straight up and down like a door.
Some women haven’t the faintest
idea what’s suitable for them.”
“And get an eyeful of the frump
on the end seat, will you? Wearing
a white felt cloche with that rigout.
Mutton dolled up as spring lamb.”
“Fez, please !! ”
“If you’re not too tired after tea
come over, Joan. I’m in a bit of a
mess with that jumper—I can’t get
the pattern going properly, some-
how.”
“All right. Bet. Hub might want
to go to the pictures, but I’ll choke
him off.” .
"Fez, please! Fez, pleaseflt’s
you I mean, lady. You haven’t paid
your fare yet ?”
“Well! I never heard the like!
Shouting at us as if we were
criminals or something! Did you
think we were trying to get out of
paying?”
"Listen, lady, I sang out at you
about a dozen times."
“A dozen times? Ridiculous. You
didn’t call out more than four.
You’ll wait till I give it to you, now.”
“Let me pay, Joan.”
“No, Bet, you paid last time.”
“No, you did, I think. I remem-
ber we had an argument about it
coming in. I have it here somewhere.
Here’s a sixpence. I think I must
have gone through all my small
change.”
“But you couldn’t have. Bet—you
changed a pound only at afternoon-
tea, and you haven’t bought anything
since.”
“Here’s another penny. Oh, dear.
I’ll simply have to clear this hand-
bag out. Have you a shilling, Joan?
I’ll pay you back later.”
"Don’t mind me, lady. I’ve got all
day.”
“Well, you won’t get any now,
just for your cheek. Come on, Joan.
We’ll get off and get the next. It
doesn’t matter, anyway. Our stop’s
the next one.”
BO.
Ducks Unlimited
By H. A. LINDSAY
TO the already-told story of the
annihilation of America’s passenger-
pigeon other warning examples for
Australia from the same quarter
could be added. And also good examples,
The bison would have suffered the
same fate as the passenger-pigeon if a
Canadian rancher hadn’t saved the last
small herd from being slaughtered. He
gave them a sanctuary on his property
and bred them like domestic cattle. The
huge herds of bison in American national
parks today have all descended from
that one small lot.
The last stands of the giant redwoods
of California—the oldest and the biggest
living things in the world—also seemed
doomed till a Save the Redwoods League
was launched. With contributed money.
grove after grove of trees were bought,
Today, as tourist attractions, those giant
trees have few rivals anywhere,
Again, some 20 years ago the gun-
clubs of the U.S.A. and Canada faced
the fact that the wild-ducks and wild-
geese were growing fewer every year. The
gun-clubs and the U.S. Fishery and Wild
Life Bureau combined to have investiga-
tion by teams of fact-seeking scientists,
who, after a few years of field work,
came up with the finding: “It’s all due
to lack of breeding-grounds.”
As in Australia, swamps were being
drained and marshland reclaimed. The
birds were thus being forced to nest
around seasonal waters, which dried out
before most of the young were old enough
to fly. Hundreds of thousands of goslings
and ducklings were perishing each year,
The cure was to turn the seasonal waters
into permanent lakes by putting dams
across their outlet channels. Ducks Un-
limited was formed to carry out the
work. At first, the birdlovers’ leagues
would have none of it. They weren’t
going to “help breed wildfowl for people
to shoot”! They soon changed their
tune. They found that on the permanent
waters being created at little cost all
the protected species of aquatic birds
were also breeding.
Today, in spite of the shooting,
America has more wildfowl than at any
time within living memory. The full
story can be read in Kip Farrington’s
book The Ducks Came Back, or in the
booklet published by the U.S. Fishery
and Wild-Life Bureau, It can also be
seen in a fine natural-color film which
illustrates the work.
We could have a Ducks Unlimited in
Australia if some person with the neces-
sary time and the influence got it started,
How it could be done I have told in
detail in my booklet Living Monuments,
published by the Commonwealth Office
of Education. But private enterprise must
give the lead.
Today South Australia is proud of
possessing the biggest and best flora-and-
fauna sanctuary in the Commonwealth —
Flinders Chase on fox- and rabbit-free
Kangaroo Island. But it didn’t come into
being automatically, nor did the S.A.
Government create it as a matter of
course. A little band of enthusiasts, led
by the late Samuel Dixon, began to fight
for its establishment in 1892. Over the
years no fewer than eight influential
deputations approached the Government
on the matter, but nothing was done,
For twenty-six years Dixon and his col-
leagues continued the struggle. It was
not until 1918, when every university in
Australia put its weight behind a final
appeal, that success was achieved,
Scientists and tourists flock to visit that
sanctuary, yet only last year some mem-
bers of the local shire council wanted
to resume most of it for farms!
A similar battle lies behind Lamington
National Park, Queensland. Robert
Collins, a Logan River squatter, pro-
pounded the idea in the ’nineties, but
died without seeing his dream realised.
Romeo Lahey, a sawmiller, took up the
fight in 1912, but many more years
elapsed before this magnificent scenic
area was at last gazetted as a park,
Sydney Bushwalkers battled for years,
spending hundreds of pounds from their
club funds, before they succeeded in get-
ting some of the still-unspoiled areas of
the Blue Mountains made into reserves,
Adelaide Bushwalkers similarly managed
to get the Greenly Islands declared a
sanctuary.
To give the necessary guidance and
influential backing for this type of work
we need in every State a National Trust,
similar to the ones which have proved so
amazingly successful in England and
Scotland. These trusts are not Govern-
ment departments; they are bodies ot
public-spirited citizens and their work is
an example of private enterprise at its
most unselfish best,
To avoid having to pay income tax on
donations for flora- and fauna-preserva-
tion is quite simple. Declare every such
reserve a war memorial and all donors
can claim tax-rebates on gifts towards
its establishment. Britain is today
covered with bird sanctuaries, wildflower
reserves and parks which have beec
dedicated in this way.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, September 23, 1953
Yol 74—No. 3841
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man**
Directors:
H. K. Prior
David Adams
P. H. Prior
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney: Box 2521:
•Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth ,
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
THE BOGY THAT GOT AWAY
“Labor” has lost a spectre. It was a very good
spectre, too, of its kind; one that was calculated to
scare the daylights out of innocent electors and induce
them to vote for “Labor” as the only party capable
of laying the ghost—which was natural enough, seeing
that it was of “Labor’s” own raising. The spectre is
not of very ancient lineage; it seems to have been
conjured up rather hastily towards the middle of
1949. It was an election year; the Chifley Govern-
ment was feeling a cold wind on the back of its neck,
and the party was casting round desperately for some-
thing to use as a distraction from the issue of bank-
nationalisation. They found it —in a paper read by
Professor Hytten before the Australian and New
Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science,
in Hobart.
Discussing some of the problems of “full
employment” the professor said that in the 1920’s—
the last period of reasonably full employment—Aus-
tralia had had unemployment varying from six to
11 per cent, of trade-union membership, and that in
the best of those years, when unemployment was six
to eight per cent., there was a period when employ-
ment was fairly easy for those who really sought it.
The professor was talking as a scientist to scientists,
but he had been an economic adviser to the Bank of
New South Wales, so the bright boys of “Labor” did
not hesitate to proclaim his speech as a pointer to the
intentions of the Liberal party should it accede to
power.
Haylen, M.H.R., then the party’s leading
pamphleteer, conveniently forgot that only four years
earlier be had expressed views on full employment
somewhat similar to those of Hytten —he had said
that an unemployment figure of five per cent, could
be regarded as equivalent to full employment —and
published a document, which he miscalled a tract, in
which he accused the Liberals of seeking to create
large-scale unemployment as part of an overall policy
for “a pool of cheap labor” throughout the country.
Without any other evidence than Professor Hytten’s
paper he exhorted his readers to remember “that the
Liberals, behind the scenes, are committed to a policy
to sack eight in every hundred workers in Australia.”
The “unemployment pool” became part of the
stock-in-trade of every “Labor” speaker, and the
spectre of unemployment, want and depression was
paraded at every meeting during the 1949 election
campaign. But apparently the electors were not ready
to be frightened by bogies. Had “Labor” won the 1949
election we would probably still be hearing how the
party saved Australia from a depression worse than
that of the ’thirties.
Although the spectre had been a failure, “Labor”
refused to put it away. At intervals during the frustrat-
ing period that preceded the double-dissolution it was
given an airing, but in the light of plain facts it could
hardly raise a shudder. Far from the. unemployment-
pool materialising, the number of men out of work
actually fell during the first year of the new Govern-
ment, and when, as a result of the double-dissolution
it hadn’t bargained on, “Labor” had to find a new
campaign-story, it seized on price-control. Some of
its speakers, of course, found it difficult to switch off
the theme; Haylen went on the air with a claim that
the Government’s recruiting campaign was part of a
plan “to discipline the worker by lengthening his hours
and by the threat of unemployment.”
After “Labor’s” second defeat unemployment fell
still further —and “Labor’s” hopes with it. It seemed
that the unemployment spectre had done its dash
without even one decent scare to its credit, and that
the time had come to put it quietly to rest. Then
something happened which illustrated the old belief
that if you keep a thing long enough you’ll find a use
for it. Wool prices dropped steeply and the Govern-
ment reacted to the threat to overseas funds by
imposing drastic import-restrictions. Credit was
restricted to steady an inflated economy. A degree of
unemployment followed, aided in New South Wales
and Victoria by sackings in the railways and on some
public works. “Labor” saw its chance. Out came the
bogy again and “Labor” speakers sped up and down
the land prophesying doom.
As the months went by in 1952 unemployment
figures rose, but not quickly enough to satisfy the
prophets of woe, so they accused everyone of faking
the figures. Flinders by-election was won on this false
issue, and in Werriwa the “Labor” majority was
greatly increased. Gallup polls showed “Labor’s”
stocks at a high level. The spectre, after a late start.
THE COUNTER-ATTACK
worked well as the central figure of the most
unprincipled piece of panicmongering ever engineered
by an Australian political party. True, there was some
unemployment last year, but by all normal yardsticks
1952 was a year of full employment. At no time did
the numbered unemployed get as high as five per
cent. —the figure quoted by Haylen in 1945 as
“equivalent to full employment.”
Encouraged by the success of their tactics, Evatt
and Co. decided that the bogy was good enough to
get them back on to the Treasury benches at the next
election. Everything, it seemed, was over bar the
formality of going to the polls. Now they’re not so
sure ; the spectre’s success was rather shortlived ; since
Christmas it seems to have been rather a flop. Last
January the unemployment figure was just over four
per cent. It dropped in February and again in March
—and in April. It has been dropping month by month
since, even defying the expected reverse of winter.
The unemployment-pool has dwindled to a puddle.
Small wonder that Evatt is abusing the Budget.
It is putting his spectre right out of business, and it
is going to be rather hard to find a new bogy of
equally spine-chilling promise in time for next year s
elections.
Government by Pensioner
In Canberra last week the spectacle of “ ‘Labors’
greatest statesman,” the would-be architect of the new
age of freedom and constitutional reform, huxtering
for the votes of the old and the sick, the pensioner and
the widow, was apt to kill all warmth in the listener,
apart from the sheer boredom induced by the Leader
of the Opposition’s monotonous repetition of outworn
panicmongering phrases. “Horror Budget,” vicious,
“evil” are part of Dr. Evatt’s regular stock of abusive
epithets and are inserted Moscow-fashion in every third
or fourth sentence.
Dr. Evatt holds that although the Government has
reduced the average rate of income-taxation by
12} per cent, it has nevertheless committed fraud on
the electors in claiming tax-reduction, because it has
not reduced total taxation, the rise in incomes having
taken up the slack produced by the cut in the per-
centage-rate. At the same time he holds that
there has been gross inequity in the Treasurer s
tax - reduction, because Fadden has granted
“wealthy companies,” which make millions in
profit, a concession in company tax of 2s.
in the £. One, unnamed, which he spoke of, allegedly
made £8 million last year, and thus received a benefit
of £BOO,OOO, while it appeared that the married worker
with a family on £l4 a week got relief only to the
extent of 2s. 6d. a week, and the pensioner, also, only
half-a-crown a week to cope with inflation —which is
caused, of course, by the “Horror Budget of the
Menzies-Fadden Government.
In the next breath after, a table-thumping attack
on the Treasurer for perpetrating this alleged inequity,
and a comment that there was a tendency for com-
panies to amalgamate into near-monopolies in which
the small shareholder had no influence, Dr. Evatt
announced a pledge to favor these corporations further
when “Labor” should achieve power by restoring to
them in the taxation field the 40-per-cent, initial depre-
ciation allowance. He complained of the apparent
“overall decline in the yearly profits of a number of
companies,” and that the reduction in rates granted did
not include provision to overcome the “injurious
effects” to many companies of the repeal of the allow-
ance "made by the Chifley Government” in preventing
valuable industries from modernising their equipment.
The main appeal of the Doctor’s speech, however,
was to the minority of dependants on social-service
payments who in many areas are numerous enough to
decide the result in close-run electorates Attempted
political bribery of the old, sick and widowed people
is a base kind of politics, but he has no hesitation m
descending to that level. The core o - l *
abuse of the Budget is that it is halt-
crown Budget,” whose concessions to hundreds ot
thousands of pensioners were the smallest, leav
their standards of living “dangerously low. It appears
that the “immediate task” of the incoming Labor
Government will be to “remedy this injustice as
well as that done to the mothers of young Australian
families through the Menzies-Fadden Government =>
“complete indifference to the needs of the family, and
its utter lack of generosity in the matter of chiiU-
endowment.” In Dr. Evatt’s opinion the policy ot the
present Government is “an insult to the social
conscience of Australia.”
This irrespective of the price of and market for
wheat and wool and the economic conditions in
general, Dr. Evatt and his followers have promised
to wipe out by “working towards the elimination ol
the means-test.” He is “confident that he can end its
evil features within the lifetime of a single Parlia-
ment,” Considering that it is as much moved by the
penury of the States as it is by the treat-
ment of pensioners, the Opposition appears to
be prepared to take on an outsize task. Indeed,
with those between whom and a pension the means-
test stands, and the Cahills, Cains and Gairs wita
their expansive views of what the State Government s
standard of living should be. Dr. Evatt’s Treasurer is ;
due to be skinned alive in 1954 in the notional event
of “Labor” being returned to office. In its theory the
only Government or section of the community which
should be able to relatively deflate its spending and
whose costs should not follow the trend of inflation
is the Commonwealth. But this is a theory which
probably—no, certainly—will hold good only for the
term of “Labor’s” sentence in Opposition. Like his
pious aspiration to have the debates on
extended so that the accounts can be properly
examined, and his contention that the Public Accounts
Committee (completely suppressed while “Labor was
in power) should scrutinise the defence and other votes
not suitable for detailed Parliamentary debate, most
of Dr. Evatt’s dreams are like those of the adolescent
girl who sits in the dark pretending to be a fairy.
One of the few basic grounds for criticism of
the Budget lies in the danger that Liberalism is pushing
the idea of the pension too far. Mr. Townley, Minister
for Social Services, replying to Dr. Evatt, made it
clear that not only would 120,000 pensioners benefit
by real pension-increases of from 12s. 6d. to 325. 6d. a
week under the Budget, but that by an easing of con-
ditions 100,000 more people would be brought into
the pension field —which means that the total is now
close to 500,000. This represents about 10 per cent,
of all the voters. A few more increases like that due
to relaxation of the means-test or its abolition and
there will be enough to control the country at elections
and decide who shall govern it.
With a Dr. Evatt in the field that position
would be disastrous. Elections would cease to be
elections. They would simply become auctions of
incomes for those who could make out a case for
claiming them. Until, of course, the economy died
under the strain.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Dr. Evatt's Lost Catchcries
Two of the nastiest pills which “Labor”
has had to swallow during the past
few months were flung at it from the
Government benches in the first two days
of debate on the Budget.
One was the comparison of taxation-
levels now and when “Labor” was in
office, put forward by Dr. Donald
Cameron, M.P., whose speech was one of
the best delivered on either side during
the Budget debate, and which exploded
some of the Doctor’s most cherished
deceptions about “horror” income tax.
The other came from the Prime
Minister, given in reply to a question by
Mr. Cramer, M.P.—a quotation which
seemed to destroy at a blow, on the
authority of the trade-union movement,
every claim which Dr. Evatt has made
over the past year about the economic
position. Reading from the formal case
put up by the unions—a “carefully-con-
sidered factual document in which the
unions outlined their case to the Arbi-
tration Court against the reduction of
wages”—Mr, Menzies quoted:
It • is submitted that the capacity of the
economy to sustain a high level of real
wages is better than in 1949-50. Produc-
tivity has greatly increased, not only be-
cause labor and material shortages have
been almost eliminated, but also because
of the high rate of capital investment in
recent years.
Primary production is flourishing, ex-
ports have expanded and overseas funds
are rising (with a current-account sur-
plus), retail trade is improving, employ-
ment is rising, available supplies are higher
and the economy is better balanced. The
difference between earnings and award
wages is higher than in 1949-50, and profits
have continued to rise despite difficult
trading conditions due to overstocking and
tightness of credit.
Inflationary pressure has virtually dis-
appeared. Overseas investments in Aus-
tralian industry have continued at a high
level.
Mr, Menzies also quoted Mr.
Eggleston, Q.C., leading counsel for
the trade-union movement, to the
effect that the court would find
“a better condition of the economy
in every respect now than in 1949-50.”
And these viewpoints, the Prime Minister
suggested, seemed to have been accepted
as accurate by the court.
Nationalised Overdrafts
Bank-nationalisation is not an issue in
the newspaper case at present before the
court in Sydney, but some of the evidence
at the hearing awoke an echo of the time,
not so long distant, when the attempted
Bank Grab was very much in the public
mind.
One of the directors of Associated
Newspapers said by affidavit that his
company’s overdraft 12 months ago was
£1,650,636, and that its bankers had
several times asked that this be reduced
to round about £750,000. It had, in fact,
been reduced to £931,000, at the end of
July, 1953, but commitments for news-
print would mean a further increase
during the next few months.
The managing-director of Consolidated
Press, Ltd., said in evidence that his com-
pany’s overdraft was £918,000, and that
he had arranged with his bank to finance
the purchase of Associated Newspapers
shares by a loan of up to £2,180,000.
This is big money, but in the years
since the war the high cost of newsprint
has made large-scale bank-accommoda-
tion essential to many newspapers. The
point is that the dealings between the
two companies and their banks were on
a purely business basi§. Two banks were
involved ; both private banks.
It is interesting to consider what would
have been the position if the Bank Grab
of 1947 had become law. Both news-
paper groups would have been heavily
indebted to the One Big Bank, which, if
“Labor” had had its way, would have
been under the direction of the Treasurer.
That Treasurer could have been some-
one of a like mind to Mr. Calwell, who
thinks that not only should the State
control the banking system but also the
Press. What strings could be tied to the
overdrafts of newspaper companies when
the only lender was a nationalised bank!
The Wheat Problem
Some plain facts seem to have been
ignored by parties to the dispute about
the home-price for wheat, and the straight
issue is clouded by the statements (some
of them patently absurd) of politicians,
control advocates and wheatgrowers’
spokesmen. There is, too, underlying
both official statements and what has
been published from day to day, growing
doubt as to whether it is a question of
wheat prices so much as maintaining
official control of the growing and mar-
keting of the stuff.
Some of the facts of the situation
which must not be overlooked are: The
U.S.A. has a thumping surplus of wheat
—so much that the Government is pay-
ing farmers to keep it in useless heaps
on the farms, was recently offering old
wheat at a 30 cents discount, and pays
a “floor-price” only on restricted acreage.
The U.K. has got out of Government-
to-Government trading in wheat, handed
wheat trading back to private enterprise,
to which the British Food Ministry has
handed a huge quantity of stockpile
wheat, and so Britain isn’t buying big
lots just now. Further, British awareness
of the huge North American surplus and
British determination to get back to free
enterprise as quickly as possible is one
reason why Britain refused to accept the
new International Wheat Agreement. In
other words, it wasn’t going to commit
itself to I.W.A. prices while there was
cheaper wheat to be got.
That is the background against which
Federal Minister for Commerce McEwen
and lesser lights are struggling to retain
a wheat-marketing system which was
created by war conditions, sustained
during the restoration from war-time to
SYDNEY NEWSPAPER
UPROAR—page 14
peace-time conditions, and is now clearly
out of date.
Similarly it is the background against
which Mr. Graham, of N.S.W., and his
followers want to impose a 155.-a-bushel
home-price, and are opposed by Mr.
Stoneham of Victoria and Mr. Collins
of Queensland, who want somewhere
about 13s, 6d. Mr, Graham has told a
wheatgrowers’ deputation he will stick
to 155., and the growers have decided
there’ll be “no compromise.”
There are many side-issues in this,
chief among them being that N.S.W.
terminal silos are choked with last sea-
son’s wheat, that N.S.W. railways impose
higher wheat freights than other States,
and neither Victoria nor Queensland sees
why its people should pay a home-
price based on N.S.W. rail-freights, and
that the whole business of creating State
pools and fixing State prices is more than
any State Government wants to tackle.
Meantime the grower is in pretty much
that condition which his mate wrote of
Clancy of the Overflow, for he “don’t
know where he are.” About afl he can
do just now, with the new wheat ripening
rapidly, is get ready for stripping and
hope for the best. But it’s time the
Ministerial and other authorities dealing
with wheat woke up to the fact that what
they call “organised marketing” is
nothing more than war-time controlled
marketing, and the wheatgrowing, as well
as the wheat-eating, world has come a
long way from that.
Wheat, in short, has now joined many
other commodities in having to make its
own way in a free world devoted to free
enterprise.
Cain Goes Tatting
When Victorian Opposition-leader Bolte
accused Premier Cain of double-dealing
in connection with the bill to establish a
State lottery in Victoria Cain was rather
incensed. The position at that stage was
that “Labor” wanted a lottery and had
the numbers to get the bill through the
Assembly; the Country party was anti-
lottery, and the Liberals were against
establishing a lottery unless the consent
of the people had first been given at a
referendum. All this meant that the fate
of the bill depended on the votes of the
two Hollway M.L.C.s —McLeod and
Garside —and it was generally thought
that they would vote with the Govern-
ment on the issue.
Mr. Bolte’s accusation was that the
Premier, who was known to have mis-
givings about the bill, had private infor-
mation that the Hollwayites would
oppose the measure and that it would be
defeated. He was supporting the bill
in the Assembly, knowing full well it
would never pass the Council. Cain
indignantly denied this and said the bill
would go through. After a heated scene
Bolte challenged “Labor” members to say
how many of them really thought Vic-
toria would have a State lottery. Several
members replied “All of us.”
That happened on Tuesday. By Friday
Cain was announcing that “Tatts” was
to shift from Hobart to Melbourne on a
promise of an exclusive licence for ten
years and that he felt that this com-
promise would be acceptable “to all who
had objected to the establishment of a
State lottery.” Loud protests from
churchmen and others told him that he
was wrong in this assumption, and,
although Hollway intimated that his
party would support the legislation neces-
sary to authorise the licence, one of his
Upper House henchmen said that
his vote, anyway, could not be counted
on.
In Hobart Premier Cosgrove was asked
what he thought of Cain’s action in
walking off with one of Tasmania’s major
industries. He said that he had had no
notice that any negotiations were going
on, and that Cain had been “most dis-
courteous.” Considering that the transfer,
if it comes off, will mean a loss of
£1,400,000 to Tasmania, Cosgrove’s com-
ment was a miracle of restraint.
Divided, as Usual
“D.J.K.”; Like greedy cats, some State
“Labor” Governments are contemplating
the entertainment-tax field which the
Federal Government has surrendered.
Which brings up again the issue of
returning taxing powers to the States.
All believers in the federalist system of
government agree that, while uniform
taxation remains, State sovereignty is in
jeopardy. For years State “Labor” Gov-
ernments have enjoyed the position of
having absolutely no responsibility for
tax-collecting, but ah open go at tax-
spending. It is something of a paradox
that.while “Labor” Premiers have as one
criticised their share in tax-proceeds, par-
ticularly since the Menzies Government
took office, they and the “Labor” party
are hopelessly split on the question of
retaining the present system of uniform
taxation. The Premiers’ Conference of
February this year, whjch dealt mainly
with the uniform-tax problem, showed
that “Labor” Premiers were as united as
a dismantled jigsaw puzzle.
Mr. Cahill (N.S.W.) in unctuous mood
observed: “We are practical men, and
as the Commonwealth has said it is deter-
mined to make this change [abandon-
ment of uniform taxation], we must set
about working out the details.”
Mr. Cain (Victoria) said: “ I am
praying for the day when our taxing
powers will be restored to us.”
• Mr. Gair, the “Labor” gallant from
Queensland: “.... I agree with your
[Mr. Menzies’s] statement that the levy-
ing of taxation by the States is an indis-
pensable element of sovereign govern-
ment.”
“Labor’s” hope from Tasmania (Mr.
Cosgrove) embarrassed the Premiers who
spoke before him when he declared:
“Tasmania is not in favor of the aboli-
tion of uniform taxation. I cannot see
that such action will be of any benefit
to our State, or indeed to Australia.”.
Mr. Hawke (W.A.) made “Labor’s”
vote 3-2: “We certainly would not be
prepared to accept the abolition of uni-
form taxation unless it was forced upon
us.”
Then came Marrickville, when
“Labor’s” grand panjandrum. Dr. Evatt,
strode the stage to plead the Senate
cause. “A ‘Labor’ Senate majority would
prevent the abolition of the system of
uniform taxation throughout Australia
in relation to taxation” was his policy.
It seems reasonable to assume that had
“Labor” won the Senate election Mr.
Cain’s prayers would have been in vain,
and Mr. Gair would have been deeply
concerned about the future of sovereign
government in Queensland.
A host of problems must be solved
before the States can resume their tax-
ing-powers. “Labor” isn’t of much
assistance to the Federal Government in
speeding-up the process. Concerned
more with political advantage than
national stability, “Labor” has yet to
put forward one practical proposal for
ensuring prompt and smooth return of
State taxing powers.
Wider Still and Wider
From London; The British Labor party
is no longer split into two. It is now
split into three. We used to have Mr.
Attlee on the Right and Mr. Bevan on
the Left. Broadly speaking, the Attleeites
carried with them the trade-union leaders
and the substantial union funds, while
the Bevanites could count on the con-
stituencies, a large proportion of unions’
rank-and-file and all the fragments that
make up the Far Left.
Now the situation has changed. Their
patience long exhausted, the union-
leaders have chosen to reprove Mr. Attlee
openly for not striving to keep his errant
crew together. In turn, Mr. Attlee has
seen no reason to alter his tactics, which
depend upon the principle that if the
family voices are all raised against each
other, another, however paternal, will
only add to the uproar. In other words,
he can be just as effective—or no less
ineffective —if he puts on an understand-
ing smile and maintains a dignified
silence.
The union-leaders, thoroughly sick of
campaigning against Bevan all by them-
selves, have been precipitate, in deed as
well as in word. They have alienated
one of the most sincere and best-respected
figures in the party, Mrs. Eirene White,
whose success as a peacemaker among
the factions was known and appreciated
long before Mr. Bevan withdrew from
the Cabinet. \
This lady of middle-class background
(her father was a professor) won the
attention of the union-leaders for her
qualities of reasonableness and statesman-
ship and had their support on the party’s
national executive.
She has now withdrawn her candida-
ture as a protest against the slanging-
matches and “exclusive intolerance....
of our more prominent leaders.” And
she will undoubtedly have many sympa-
thisers. Most Socialists are tired of all
the wrangling and out of patience with
Mr. Bevan, who, significantly, is keeping
very quiet. That makes three main fac-
tions: the Right, the Left and the “A
plague on both your houses.”
But Mrs. White is unlikely to lead a
splinter-group. She is independent and
will go where she thinks reason prevails.
Her independence has, in fact, contri-
buted towards the present trouble, for
it is said that Mr. Deakin, having decided
that she was not 100 per cent. anti-Bevan,
last year withdrew the Transport Union’s
bloc vote from her. Opinion having
hardened against her (she is not markedly
“anti” anything) she foresaw defeat this
year and, incensed at the intolerance and
ingratitude, spoke her mind.
The breakaway, while not momentous,
nevertheless underlines the internal
writhings which have dissipated the
strength of the Labor party.
Trade-unionism and Politics
There has rarely been such a dull Budget
debate as that which opened at Canberra
last week. It was dull because there
seemed little to debate in the financial
proposals. The expression which fell
from Mr. Arthur Calwell’s lips as he left
the House after the Treasurer’s speech,
and which echoed round Canberra in
the succeeding days—“unfair to Labor”
—seemed to sum up Opposition opinion.
Moreover, so much division is developing
among “Labor” members on major issues
that they are no longer a cohesive party.
There is a “Labor”-Evatt bloc, a “Labor”-
Calwell bloc, a Keon-Mullens bloc, a
Surry Hills bloc which seems to consist
solely of Mr. Ward ; and various other
blocs; and there are a whole cohort of
individualists and opportunists. But there
is no longer a regimented and disciplined
party such as existed in the time of J. B.
Chifley. Both the A.L.P. Federal Execu-
tive and the leadership seem to have lost
their authority.
Dr. Evatt’s favorite for the position
of A.L.P. representative on the Caucus
Executive (and the front Opposition
bench), Mr. Luchetti, was defeated
ignominiously by Mr. Eli Harrison,
whose backing was exclusively trade-
unionist, by a vote of the order of 50
to 30. And incidents which show the
lack of discipline in the Opposition occur
almost every day in Parliament.
One day last week defiant “Noes” rang
out from “Labor” back-benchers on a
question of leave in sheer contradiction
to the leadership viewpoint. And there
was a legend that one evening Mr. Went-
worth dreamt in his secluded back bench
that he was making a vigorous speech
about the recognition df the Chinese
Communist Government and woke up
to find that it was Mr. Kim Beazley
doing it. It was quite untrue, of course.
Mr. Wentworth is never asleep, though
the Opposition seemed to be, and granted
him a partial immunity from insult and
interruption during his attack on price-
fixing and its attendant rackets the other
evening, a happening which was without
precedent. At the same time anybody
listening to Mr. Beazley might well have
believed that Mr. Wentworth had written
his speech for him, so close are their
sentiments. Mr. Beazley, once one of
the Lefter hopes of “Labor,” is a changed
man since his visit abroad, and the
changes have the brand of sincerity on
them. There are already “Labor” men
whispering that there is no longer any
place for him in the “Labor” party.
One of the most marked facts about
the Budget commentaries from the
“Labor” side is the abstention from
(Continued on next page)


strong and heartfelt criticism of it by
the trade-union movement, of which the
relationship with political “Labor” is
rapidly and —for political “Labor” —
ominously changing. While the great
unions from which “Labor” drew its
strength during the war (the A.W.U.
largely standing aloof) were Communist-
controlled, the leaders appeared to be
all of a piece in outlook with the rich
publicans and other adventurers and
careerists who formed the top strata of
Parliamentary parties.
But the change in the leadership
brought about by the application of the
anti-Communist ballot provisions in
union elections and the changing outlook
among workers caused by stabilised high
wages and employment are working as
destructive agents against the association
of trade-unionism with the A.L.P. The
trade-unions are perhaps beginning to
find that they can get on without political
affiliations, that they can secure treat-
ment equally good through a policy
of co-operation with all parties and
Governments, the Liberal party included,
as they can by being part of the political
“Labor” movement. They may be dis-
covering that they can gain by not incur-
ring the obligation to squander funds in
the interests of the Evatts, the Dan
Minogues and the Dan Curtins. In
other countries such as Canada and the
United States Labor discovered this fact
long ago.
If the trends are in this direction
“Labor’s” plans in N. S. Wales for com-
pulsory unionism seem to be suicidal,
since they will bring into the unions a
large mass of non-“ Labor” employees
who will very strongly oppose large sums
of union money going as now to finance
the “Labor” political machine.
POLITICAL POINTS
blotted right and left. Rates have
recently gone skyhigh on land affected by
the Cumberland Plan, though to the
owner it may have been rendered value-
less by the restrictions imposed by the
plan. But apparently the planners can
plead complete irresponsibility when it
comes to a question of prompt settlement
of claims for “injurious affection.” There
is little or no cash in the till, though the
usual elaborate headquarters are in the
process of being established.
• •
Un-butchered to make a union holiday.
• •
On Sunday Wheat Board chairman
Teasdale spoke of “the decision of wheat-
growers to urge the establishment of a
Still the burning question among
Sydney newspapermen: “Who does
what, and with which, and to whom?”
• •
Calwell protested when accused of
sotto voce interjections into the micro-
phones during Parliamentary broadcasts,
but his hoarse asides have made his voice
nearly as familiar to listeners as Mo’s.
And it’s not so sotto, either.
• •
After deciding to abolish live-hare
coursing, the Sydney Cahills have done
a back-flip and decided to allow it. This
is supposed to be in the interests of
sport; it’s really in the interests of the
“sports” who support the Cahills.
• •
Menzies and Evatt were in agreement
for once when they said that the Com-
munist party was very closely associated
with the “Australian Convention on War
and Peace.” The Comrades have been
keeping in the background this time,
although their official organ gives much
space to the stunt, taking care to give
overfull credit to the clergymen and
others who have lent their names and
legs to the cause, attracted by the noble
word “peace.” For some reason Father
Divine seenis to have been overlooked.
With his motto “Peace, it’s wonderful,”
he should have been a candidate for
World President.
• •
They’ve found a new term for the
socialised control of the production and
marketing of foodstuffs like wheat,
potatoes and eggs—“orderly marketing.”
Disorderly marketing, of course, is where
private enterprise operates. The United
Kingdom, therefore, having given away
Government-to-Government trading, is
going back to disorderly marketing.
® •
Mr. Gollan’s statement on his election
as a Minister: “It has been my ambition
to be a Cabinet Minister. I will do my
utmost to further the cause of Labor in
this country.” Before this it was assumed
that the first duty of a Minister was to
further the cause of his country.
• •
“Labor’s” sudden discovery that
pension-rates should rise automatically
with the basic wage is a little belated. In
1940 the first Menzies Government insti-
tuted this system, and it operated for
more than three years—until “Labor”
abolished it. There’s a similar hypocrisy
about the party’s attitude on child-
endowment. The rates aren’t high
enough, say Evatt and Co.; they should
be increased. Yet it is less than four
years since the Menzies-Fadden partner-
ship was advocating extending the endow-
ment to the first child and “Labor” was
saying it couldn’t be done.
• •
Speaking on the Budget, Dr. Evatt said
that, in terms of the standard of living,
the average person would certainly not
be as well off as he was before the
“horror Budget” of two years ago.
There’s a simple way of checking that.
The Commonwealth Statistician from
time to time publishes a figure which he
calls the “real-wages index-number,”
which relates current wages to current
living costs. In September, 1951, when
the so-called horror Budget was brought
down, the real-wages index-number was
1427 ; last March —the latest figure avail-
able —it was 1446, and it certainly has not
fallen since then.
If Evatt is tempted to comment that
that is no much of an increase in two
years, he had better first reflect that when
his party went out of office four years
ago the figure was only 1360.
9 9
Though the Sydney “green-belt”
planners (the scheme covers the County
of Cumberland) have not the funds to
carry out resumptions on the scale con-
templated, they have already got a vice-
like grip on thousands of acres of urban
land, and have passed the death-sentence
on cottages which represent the life-
savings of many people. Titles have been
DOODLING
three-State pool,” though whether this was
by ballot among themselves or simply a
move of farm organisations isn’t clear.
Anyway, the proposed pool would com-
prise South Australia, West Australia and
N. S. Wales —Victoria, Queensland and
Tasmania out on their own. This, said
Teasdale, is necessary to keep Australia
in the International Wheat Agreement
and maintain the Wheat Board. Ah, yes
—maintain the Wheat Board.
• •
Cain’s bid to walk off with Tatts while
Cosgrove was looking the other way
suggests that he has been reading the
evidence in the Sydney newspaper case.
• •
Those oddly assorted White Aus-
tralians Arthur Calwell and Eddie ,Ward
(rechristened Oo Flung Dirt by an admir-
ing “Labor” colleague in honor of his
concern about Chinese immigration) drew
some curious facts about celestial popu-
lation from the Minister for Immigration,
Mr. Holt, last week. While in “Labor’s”
last years of office Chinese in Australia
temporarily under permissive occupation
increased from 795 to 2184, they have in
the past three years increased only by a
further 618, students mostly. The per-
manent non-European ingredient is fall-
ing in Australia. At Federation it was
13 per 1000, now it is three per 1000. The
Chinese figure has receded from nine per
1000 to two per 1000 in 53 years.
• •
Canberra’s acting fire-chief has warned
the Government that Parliament House
is “a serious fire risk.” Hot air?
• •
E. Wetherell and W. M. Gollan are
the two new Ministers chosen to fill the
vacancies in the N. S. Wales Cabinet.
Wetherell, member for Cobar since 1949,
succeeds Clarrie Martin as Transport
Minister; Gollan becomes Minister with-
out portfolio, and Buckley, M.L.C., previ-
ously a Minister with nebulous duties,
takes over the Mines Department, which
Heffron has been administering since
J. G. Arthur stepped down.
• •
By-elections for Kahibah and Waverley
in the N. S. Wales Assembly will be held
on October 31. J. G. Arthur’s father,
Joshua, is among the 11 contesting the
“Labor” preselection for Kahibah. The
Libs, have not yet decided whether to
run a candidate.
• •
Neither side of the House in last week s
“debate” in the Vic, Assembly on child-
welfare would have received the endorse-
ment of Socrates, who said that if you
become angry in an argument, be sure
you have no argument. A few of the
“arguments” used: “Tarnished Iscariots,’’
“Cardboard Caesar from Carlton,”
“Dodgshun, the hangman, he hanged a
woman” (chanted many times by Mr.
Barry), “This Labor Government of the
three B’s —Booze, Betting and Beggar the
country,” “They’ll have you in a mental
home soon,” “You’ll be with your hell-
girl in Pentridge if you don’t look out,”
“You kissed an officer’s wife —how dare
you! ”
• •
One item on the list of groceries freed
from price-control last week was desic-
cated coconut.
• •
Leading a deputation from the Tem-
perance Alliance to talk about beer with
Vic. Chief Secretary Galvin, Rev. Robert-
son McCue asked Galvin if the Cains
would move for nationalisation of liquor,
Galvin: How do you know we’re not?
The Rev. : I’ll bet a lot of money you’re
not!
Now which is worse, booze or betting?
• •
Premier Playford has introduced a bill
to result in his State Government’s “with-
drawal from the field of landlord-and-
tenant legislation.” New houses will be
freed from rent-control, which will be
relaxed on other buildings, and business
premises, not used partly as dwellings,
will be free of rent- and eviction-control.
There should be a rush of people to S.A.
with money to invest in home-building.
• •
Premier Cahill has told, the N. S. Wales
Assembly that his Government “will not
tolerate any form of corruption under
its administration.” Now, why should
he consider it necessary to give such an
assurance?
• •
There appears to have been some
rather subtle manipulation among
Britain’s trade-unionists. The big four
(Sirs Lawther and Tewson and Messrs.
Deakin and Williamson) now have about
them as fellow-members of the general
council men who are beyond
indoctrination or reproach. It was ex-
pected that the Communists would be
defeated. Among those ousted were the
brothers Arthur and John Horner and
Wally Stevens, key man of the elec-
tricians’ strike. But some forces have
also been at work against the non-Com-
munist extremists, or, at least, against
those whose faces didn’t fit the new
order, for seven of the successful can-
didates were not on the council last year.
Congress delegates now command more
than 8,000,000 card-votes. Of these, only
500,000 are estimated to be under Com-
munist control.
• •
Burrows, M.L.A. for Curtis in the
Queensland Parliament, says that Callide
coalfield would prosper if only the
Federal Government would stop inter-
fering in coal matters. As far as Callide
is concerned Canberra’s interference
amounted to subsidising Victorian pur-
chases from that field.
• •
Tom O’Brien, M.P., last year’s presi-
dent of Britain’s T.U.C., dropped a mil-
lion votes in his election to the council.
Why? Because he senit Churchill a
goodwill telegram before leaving on his
mission to U.S.A.
• •
Announced from Canberra that a
Northern Territory area of “hundreds of
square miles” would be thrown open for
private uranium-prospecting and -mining.
Judging by the way weekend hikers get
lost in the outer suburbs of Sydney and
Melbourne this could lead to more search-
parties than prospectors entering the area.
• •
Some of the States asked the Common-
wealth to collect amusement-tax on their
behalf, now that it has vacated the field.
Their argument was that the Common-
wealth had the organisation necessary for
collecting the tax, so it might as well
keep on with the job. The point that by
so doing it would still Carry the odium
of an unpopular tax while the States
reaped the benefit was not mentioned.
The Commonwealth gave a flat “No” to
the request, which means that any State
that wants to impose amusement tax will
have to do the job itself —and take the
kicks.
• •
From the Molonglo:
An innovation at Canberra which has caused
a yell of protest in more celestial regions is
the separation of Senate Hansard from Rep-
resentatives Hansard. It gives Senators the
kind of feeling which an old gentleman ex-
periences when he is suddenly shoved through
a window into the snow without his pants.
From now on it will be plain to all Hansard
subscribers how little work the Senate does.
The first issue of separate Senate debates is so
thin you can almost see through it.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Becks”; Beauty-contests are really
big-time money in America these days.
The latest Miss America, chosen last
week, collected prizes totalling 50,000
dollars; second and third place-getters
did pretty well, too. The winner’s
dimensions were given as: weight,
Bst. 61b.; bust, 37in.; waist, 24in.; hips,
36in. Her prizes included a new car, a
special wardrobe and a 5000-dollar
scholarship. It’s the last item that has me
puzzled. Just what would a girl like that
do with a scholarship?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Uco”: Four young Americans who
have spent six months in this country
have reported on their experiences for
the benefit of others who may be coming
“’ Ere —chop y'r own flamin' cutlets!"
this way. One little piece; “Popcorn is
popular, so take some with you. Small
badges, pennies, pencils, or other small
items are also useful gifts.” They seem
to have forgotten to mentmn
hade-tobacco, old top-hats and pi«es of
brightly-colored cloth so popular among
our people. Still, when the next steamer
arrives from San Francisco 1 be down
at the wharf bright and early, Ira a
sucker for popcorn.
*** *** ***
“Pawang”: Mr. N. Gordon, vice-
president of the Melbourne Trades Hall
Council, says that no one knows what
bread really is—bakers can make any-
thing from flour and water and call it
bread. He urges that the C.5.1.R.0. be
• asked for a definition, and that bakers
' be compelled to keep to a standard. The
definition would tell us nothing except
what to put in; most of the secret is in
the mixing and baking. If Mr. Gordon
wants to know what bread really is he
should go into any one of the dozens of
little shops set-up by New Australians
and buy a loaf. Once he tastes it he will
know the difference between real bread
and the queer stuff that is delivered to him
every moving.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Smithy”: I don’t know how other
fathers fared on September 6, but I’m
very glad my kids didn’t see two shop-
windows in Hobart. One urged that Dad
be given hammers, axes and other mis-
cellany, including a great Spalding
hammer ; the other displayed a collection
of nylon nightdresses.
♦♦♦ *i* *i*
“Kelms”: An American scientist whose
hobby is military history has discovered
what he thinks are related facts. He
claims that from earliest times to the
Napoleonic era armies operating in the
Middle East did not suffer from intestinal
diseases such as typhoid and dysentery,
and that they drank copious quantities of
wine. Caesar’s men were ordered to
drink wine. From red wine that had
been fermented for a few weeks the
scientist has isolated an antibiotic that
kills four types of bacteria, and he thinks
wine may become a military medical
weapon. He might have something there.
Captain Cook, who wasn’t a medical man,
is considered to haye made his chief con-
tribution to medicine in his discovery
that the inclusion of fresh vegetables and
lime-juice in his crew’s diet controlled
scurvy. But he also provided another
clue of which more could have been
made. Homeward-bound from the
voyage on which he discovered Australia
he called at Batavia, then one of the
world’s worst pest spots. With one excep-
tion the whole of his crew became ill
there, and Cook’s scientific training
showed up in the fact that, while he did
everything possible for the sick men, he
studied the one who was immune. This
was an old man between 70 and 80 years
old, and Cook recorded that he was “con-
stantly drunk every day.” If medical
science had followed that up it might
have removed one of the horrors of war.
and made Army life far more attractive,
It’s not too late yet.
* * ***
. whether or not the bagpipes
are * ble o£ renderi .. God Save” i
know £ b recent % on the subject
seem to ’ , ain a P little incident J j
witnessed a f weeks state
Governor attended a <f omme moration
service at a suburban church. The local
school cadets were drawn-up in readiness
for his arrival; likewise the local pipe-
band. His Ex. arrived, the appropriate
command was given and the cadets, to
the best of their ability, slammed on a
“Present Arms.” The pipers remained
still and silent. Then someone nudged
someone, or tipped a wink, or passed the
word or by some other means conveyed
the intelligence that the moment had
arrived for appropriate music. It came —
the plaintive notes of “Over the Sea to
Skye.”
♦ ♦ ♦
“F.S.”: Six months ago a Din. bronze
Psyche by Rodin disappeared from a
private gallery in London ; it was given
up for lost and the insurance company
paid over. Recently an anonymous caller
phoned the gallery and told the director
to send to the Victoria and Albert
Museum and he would find something to
his advantage. It was the Psyche plus a
verse from Yeats, a 10s. note and a letter
from “Impecunious Artist” stating that
he had had no mercenary intent, but just
wanted to live with the exquisite creature
for a whole summer. This prompts
speculation as to the fate of the Greek
Aphrodite which vanished from the
National Gallery in Melbourne just after
the finest masterpieces of the national
collection were restored to their places
from their war-time hideout. Regarding
the whereabouts of this statue the trustees
preserve a masterly silence. If some
impecunious artist borrowed her he
is giving himself a rather long spell with
the lady. Perhaps a far worse fate has
befallen her —is the gallery contemplating
a job of restoration?
❖ ❖
“Bass”: Throughout the big stoush,
whenever I saw Verey lights mentioned
that’s how they were spelt, so when I
read about Very lights in a Perth daily
I challenged their spelling and found it
was correct. The lights are named after
Lieutenant Samuel Very, who invented
that system of signalling in 1877. More
correctly still, they should be called and
spelt Very’s lights.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Muskeen”: Brigadier Hall, com-
mander of the 3rd Div., R.A.A., wants to
hang in his officers’ mess a picture entitled
“Gentlemen, the Queen,” which is at
present in the Shamrock Hotel, Bendigo
(Vic.), on loan from the Bendigo Art
Gallery. The brigadier is under the
impression that the officers in the picture
are artillerymen, but he has been informed
by the Press that he is mistaken, as they
are officers of the Duke of Connaught’s
Light Infantry. The brigadier’s informant
is also mistaken, as there is no such regi-
ment. There is a Duke of Cornwall’s
Light Infantry, which comprises the old
32nd and 46th Foot. Early last century
the 46th saw service in New South Wales,
and according to a military historian
“were engaged in the suppression of the
ferocious bushrangers, whose power was
threatening to become formidable.”
* * ❖
“Pawang”: Report has it that scientists
have discovered that malaria can be
suppressed simply by putting victims on
a milk diet. So far the cure has only
been tried on rats and mice, but the
scientists believe that it will be equally
effective on human beings. The difficulty
will be to apply it. I have met plenty of
sojourners in the tropics who preferred
to treat the disease with rum, gin, whisky
or brandy instead of quinine, but I doubt
if many would prefer a milk diet to the
fever. I am reminded of the Anglo-
Indian colonel depicted by Phil May who
was offered a cup of tea by a Hebe in a
London pub and said; “What, tea!
ME?”
* ❖ *
“Bumpkin”: The steeply-pitched roof
can’t be explained climatically (B.
9/9/’53), If it is to throw off the snow,
why do. the Siberians have bungalow-
roofed houses like Australian suburbs?
If the water, why is the low pitch found
in Java in places where rainfall is 600 in.?
The steep pitch was probably evolved by
the English farmer who wanted more
accommodation. The economical way to
do that was to keep his walls low and
lengthen his rafters. Thus, without a
second story, he got space above his ceil-
ing for one, and sometimes two and even
three attics. Some old English tithe-barns
have extraordinarily steep pitch. On the
other hand, when Justus Jorgensen
revived mudbrick and pise at Eltham
(Vic.), long before the housing shortage,
he used the high pitch for aesthetic
reasons—i.e., because he liked the look
of it. Local architects brought the old
objection that it wasn’t suited to the
climate, but it turned out to be extra-
ordinarily suited. It is warm in winter,
and in summer the upper rooms cool
down quickly at night, like a tent, so
they are suitable to sleep in; the lower
rooms stay cool all day because the great
space above the ceiling allows plenty of
circulation.
“Sebak”: No purist myself, I never-
theless shudder when my daily paper
presents me with what it calls “the true
facts.” No doubt the public people are
interestedly interested in such things, but
personally myself I find true facts less
entertaining than colossally gigantic
untrue falsehoods.
♦♦♦
“Sister Ellell”: Mac was a fighting
soldier —or so he told me, and I quite
believed him. A good uncomplaining
patient when in bed, but chafing under
hospital restrictions when first allowed
up, and inclined to “blow thro’” if the
chafing itched his feet too much. I
was on the night-beat, and before I went
off duty he told me not to take any
responsibility for him if he were not in
bed when the 0.0. did his rounds. “Just
‘put me in,’ ” quoth he . . . lam quite
convinced that there is an angel who
specially looks after soldiers on
crutches, and his halo is double-width
if those boys have been indulging in the
gem in amber! Well after midnight, a
thumping of crutches in the corridor,
accompanied by unaccompanied singing,
told me that Mac was “blowing-in”
again. I approached him, and he con-
fronted me with a happy —if suffused
dial. “Did y’ do as I said?” It was
not hard to put him off without a truthful
answer, and I helped him to bed. Next
night he greeted me with “I thought y
said y’ ‘put me in’?” I replied that it
was merely inference on his part He
shifted from his good foot and put his
weight on his crutches, “Aw —it was kind
of y’—thanks.” And then added reflec-
tively, “And I got up early, too, had a
shave, all ready to go down and see the
Old Man, and give him a coupler quid
f’r the housekeeping!”
ALL SHIP-SHOP
“Architect Robert Maclurcan has designed a
flood-resistant building with a concrete-tank
base for Thomas Pidcock and Sons Pty., Ltd.,
timber and builders’-hardware merchants, of
Grafton. The tank, which would float like a
ship, is to be held down by the building’s overall
weight of 550 tons.”
When companies are hard to float.
What proposition could be sounder.
More concrete, than a concrete boat
To found a co. without a founder.
Set in the Clarence-river mud
Defying Grafton’s annual flood?
No more on letters or brass plates:
“Pidcock and Sons Proprietary” ;
For “Admiral Pidcock and Shipmates”
Are launched upon societary
With breaking bottles of champagne
To scorn the weak and watery main.
The lawyers will have much to say
Since council has its rates to lose.
Or will the ship be forced to pay
Both council-rates and harbor-dues ?
Such problems one had best refer
To experts such as James McGirr,
While, anchored safely in the road.
The business braves the seas and gale.
And, sculling streets they lately strode.
The people shout, “A Sale ! A Sale !”
And find to their profound
amazement
The basement - bargain is the
basement.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Nunk”: We put in a day on our gas-
stove, and now my wife says it’s so clean
you could almost eat your meals off it.
♦> *
“P.0.M.C.”: In Sydney the practice
of leaving shoes outside hotel-bedroom
doors in the fond expectancy of having
them polished (B. 26/8/’53) passed out
years ago. The fact that even the best
hotels no longer employ “Boots” doesn’t
entirely explain the extinction of this
courtly service—the prevailing impression
is that footwear left exposed in corridors
would almost certainly be pinched.
♦J* ❖ ❖
“Bo”: If oil is struck in the new
venture begun at W.A.’s Exrnouth Gulf,
it is to be hoped that the by-product
used for the lighting of lamps will possess
the same magical properties as that en-
joyed by the users of kerosene obtained
from American wells. Observe your next
Hollywood film of the tough wild Wesfc
when the heroine turns up the kero,
table-lamp. Immediately a glow similar
to that shed in more civilised places by
“He’s taking pot-luck with us.”
a 500-amp. electric-bulb will brilliantly
light up the whole of the shack.
♦> ❖ ♦>
“Flat B.”: One example of early
colonial architecture (B. 2/9/’53) to be
saved (in part) from destruction is the
century-old home of the late Dr. W. W.
Giblin in Macquarie-street, Hobart. It
is being converted into ultra-modern
business premises, and people who were
horrified to see workmen pulling down
the beautiful Georgian entrance, with its
Grecian columns, have been placated by
the announcement that it is to be pre-
ssed and re-erected by the Government
amid suitable surroundings elsewhere in
the city. This was the doorway featured
recently as the frontispiece of Michael
Sharland’s book on early Tasmanian
architecture, Stones of a Century.
<£♦
“Ron J”: Knowledge of the prompt
subconscious response of a telegraphist to
his station call-signs (B. 26/8/’53)
afforded, on one occasion, a timely solu-
tion to a difficult situation. A cove on
night-shift at a mountain station one
winter’s night took a bottle of o.p. rum
with him to keep him warm. The rum
did that and put him to sleep as well.
Having locked the door he could not be
aroused when he was wanted. Bells were
rung, windows rattled and doors banged
—all to no avail. Then someone sug-
gested phoning a telegraphist at another
station to call the sozzled bloke on the
morse. It worked ; six calls were enough
to get the door open.
* ❖
“Mullum”: Why do cartoonists depict
groups of harem wives as smiling and
happy? I should imagine that they would
be continually squabbling and arguing.
Jealousy in the female reaches its peak
over men and phildren. With too few of
the one and too many of the other, the
rows would be continuous.
♦♦♦ +j*
“Chevroford”: Road-courtesy week in
Melbourne provided at least one lighter
moment in the grim warnings of disaster.
A large trailer bearing a smashed car
and nurses bending over a dummy patient
and labelled “Discourtesy Can Be So
Dangerous” was crossing an intersection
when a large truck, a small car and a
big one re-enacted the tableau on a big
scale immediately behind it, though for-
tunately without producing a patient.
How much suggestion played a part in
the performance it would take the
psychiatrists to discover. A country doctor
who is a keen observer tells me that it is
remarkable how often the same kind of
accident runs through a family. In one
limbs are always broken, in another, if
the old man saws his leg half-through, a
son is sure to chop off a toe or finger ;
every member of another family has
smashed himself up in truck, car or on
motor-cycle. Road-courtesy campaigns
won’t do much good in such cases; what
the.y need is psychological treatment.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“Lord Luvus”; Touching this liquor
referendum contemplated in Victoria. A
friend told me of a house he had stayed
at where beer was laid on like water. His
host kept a “niner” in the cellar, and the
house was plumbed so that you had only
to turn a tap and you got a pot with a
collar on it. He was probably romancing,
but a comment from X, a sturdy drinker,
set me thinking. “That would be no
good,” he said. “If you could get it as
easily as that you’d lose your interest in
it” This seems very true, and if the
drinkers had any sense they would vote
for the continuance of six-o'clock closing.
The parsons, if they really understood
human nature, would vote for the pubs
being compulsorily kept open all day and
all night, including Sunday. The brewers,
of course, would stand four-square behind
the status quo.
❖ &
“O’Johnno”: Tasmania’s sesqui-
centenary stamp issue to commemorate
its two first Lieutenant-Governors, Collins
and Paterson, comes out this month.
David Collins ruled over the southern
section of Van Diemen’s Land; William
Paterson in the north. No one seems to
have suggested another famous figure as
a stamp-face candidate —Jorgen Jorgen-
spn, the Danish seaman-diplomat-author-
traveller-gambler-convict whose name has
come down as “ex-king of Iceland,” and
who, as mate of the Lady Nelson, had
a part in the first settlement of Van
Diemen’s Land. Jorgenson left
voluminous journals, including accounts
of the trips of the Lady Nelson. When
he came back to Van Diemen’s Land
about 20 years after his first visit it was
as a transported felon —he had been
actually sentenced to death —and he was
given various positions from clerical work
to district-constable running down bush-
rangers. While with the V.D.L. Company
“And you'd better give me a packet of Weed-killer."
as an assigned servant he did an amount
of exploratory work, and made new dis-
coveries. Jorgenson was on terms of
close friendship with eminent men of
science, but his death in Hobart was a
lonely one. As a colorful figure of early
Tasmanian history, he would be an
interesting addition to a philatelist’s
collection.
“0.W.W.”: Like Dad and Dave, Billy
Bunter of “Magnet” fame became a
victim of radio script-writers in later
years, but those old “Gem” characters
Tom Merry and Co. have died with the
old green-covered “Gem.” English
“comics” of the better type retain their
popular features for a remarkably long
periodi “Chips” has had “Weary Willie
and Tired Tim” for close on 50 years;
also “Homeless Hector” and “Casey
Court.” Another comic has had the
“Bruin Boys” for at least 40 years; but
I was surprised that the very popular
front-page hero of colored “Lot-o’-Fun”
—that really funny tramp with the halo
hat, “Dreamy Daniel” —failed to live on
in some other way when “Lot-o’-Fun”
died.
❖ *
“P.0.M.C.”: In spite of the absence of
many of the natural signs, I know spring
is here. That elderly and heart-moving
lady who achieved mention on this page
last summer in recognition of her letter-
writing at 7 a.m. daily while seated on
the steps of the colonnade of Sydney’s
G.P.O. has emerged from her winter
retreat and resumed her correspondence.
“Cunedda”: More humble competitors
than this year’s winner of the Welsh
bardic silver crown —the mistress of a
village school with only 20 pupils—have
figured prominently in these competitions
(B. 26/8/’53). Some of'the leading poets
in the Welsh language have been work-
ing men. Maxwell Fraser, a Scotswoman
married to a Welshman, who wrote the
two-volume study of Wales in Hale’s
County books, records that in her girl-
hood several Welsh bards of high stand-
ing worked on the Welsh railways. One
was a slationmaster at a small country
station; another controlled a signal-
box.
“Bert the Carpenter”: Much of the
talk about lost arts is nonsense. Give the
modern craftsman the time to do it and
he can duplicate most of the things done
in the past. But there are exceptions.
At Kingscote, tm Kangaroo Island (S.A.),
there were three old cottages narfied Faith,
Hope and Charity. They were roofed
with 22-gauge galvanised-iron which.
although it had been exposed to the sea
air for 80 years, hadn’t developed as
much as a speck of rust. Instead, a
patina had formed on it which defied
corrosion. When the cottages were
pulled down, some of the ancient roofing
was used again on a new house built at
American River. Tradesmen who
handled the sheets said they had never
seen anything like it 1 ; only pure tin
could rival its lasting qualities. In view
of the comparatively short fife of modern
galvanised-iron exposed to the sea air,
it would pay to have a sample of that
old roofing tested in a laboratory to see
if the old process could be duplicated in
a modem factory.
“Hor”: Australia’s most valuable
stamp-collection, in 14 large volumes at
Melbourne G.P.0., has a specimen of
every stamp issued in the world since
formation of the Postal Union in 1875,
except for war-time issues by enemy
nations. Thousands of stamps issued
before that year are also in this collec-
tion, which technically belongs to the
people of Australia, but practically is
controlled by the P.M.G.
* *> *l*
“J.K.D.”: He moved in with paintbrush
as soon as the tenants moved out, and it
seemed obvious that he intended a quick
turnover. We watched as he slapped on
the watery paint, and we wondered what
he’d do when he got to the gaping hole
in the guttering just over the back-
landing. Our curiosity was soon satisfied.
Climbing the ladder, he slapped a dash
of thick paint around the hole, carefully
placed a folded sheet of newspaper over
the hole and then painted over the lot. It
looked quite effective.
“Columba”: Our old family dentist
hated bookkeeping. When my father
demanded a bill, old Prongs would send
for us four kids, examine our mouths for
the work he’d done during the year and
send in a comprehensive statement,
usually just when the old man was facing-
up to the Christmas-holiday expenses.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Eyenan”; What must have been an
unconscious use of chlorophyll was
practised many years ago by a nurse of
my acquaintance who was nursing an
elderly martinet in his own home.
Women who smoked were anathema to
him, and Sister was very fond of the weed.
Every few days she called at our home
to gather a bunch of parsley from our
garden. Her patient must have marvelled
at her queer taste in nosegays, for she
kept the bunch of greenery in a vase on
her dressing-table, but she reckoned
chewing a sprig of the stuff after smoking
saved her many a wigging.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Uramao”: Of the wills granted
probate we have “a quare assortment,”
as the devil reputedly said of the Ten
Commandments. Most wills are serious,
many are humorous, and a fair number
vindictive. An old North Bucks farmer,
combining the two latter qualities in his,
believed in more than the requisite
number of nails in his coffin. In his last
testament he provided that his coffin be
studded with sharp 3in. nails all pointing
upwards through the lid. A codicil said:
“Nobody ever trod on me while I was
alive, and I am not going to allow any-
body to do it when I am dead.”
THE UNDERPRIVILEGED
“The bringing of the benefits of civilisation
to the native peoples is proceeding too slowly.”
—Letter to Sydney paper.
Beside the Zambesi
The nigs take it easy ;
Too Httle they strive
For things that are better.
Why ! They have no sweater-
Girls: They’re not alive !
They’ve no trots or tin-hares to go to,
No bookies to give all their dough to.
No time-payment business to owe to.
The boongs are benighted;
Their wives must feel blighted —
They have no “careers.”
Deprived of so many
Things — say, aren’t there any
Who’ll shed for them tears?
How sad that the natives of Fiji
Have never found use for a squeegee.
Nor known how to dope-up a gee gee!
Why shouldn’t these hearties
Attend cocktail-parties
Like we must at times ?
By dailies be toughened
To Hollywood guff, and
Road-slaughters and crimes ?
Poor devils, they’ve not heard of
“planners,”
They can’t buy blackmarket banannas.
Piccaninnies can’t bang on planners..
Why can’t they deliver
Along the Fly River
{With mortgage complete )
Prefabs ? M.P.’s jawings
And lottery drawings
Would give ’em a treat.
If they’d only eat our food, head-hunters,
Who now live on birds, yams and
grunters,
Could all look like brown Billy Bunters !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


The pick
of/he hunch
since
/B*7
©'ilomta
GOLD MEDAL
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
A square-chinned warrior, with dark
eyebrows contrasting with a close-clipped
grey moustache, Major-General A. C.
Shortt has taken over the post of chief
liaison-officer of the U.K. Service Mission
in Australia from Air-Vice-Marshal Har-
court-Smith. The new chief was in
France throughout the early phase of
War 11, and got out at Dunkirk. After
the war, he was military adviser in
Turkey, military attache in Athens and
for the past years Director of Military
Intelligence at the War Office. In this
line he considers that British people are
gradually becoming security-minded, but
the British authorities place more reliance
on public education for security than on
the work of large numbers of security
officers.
There is no doubt about the category
Dr. Julian Huxley fits into —typical
English intellectual; long hair, intelli-
gence in the alert eyes in an otherwise
relaxed face, a Frenchman’s shrug to his
shoulders and expressive hands, and,
over all, an air of boredom, slightly sar-
donic. Grandson of Thomas Huxley,
biologist and assistant-surgeon of the
Rattlesnake when she visited the Reef,
BIOLOGIST
and brother of Aldous, the eminent
doctor believes (bored) men evolved from
the slime of the sea, spoke (interested)
of the earthquake results in Fiji, and
intends (enthusiastic) to have a look at
Binghi in the Territory and the zoological
wonders of the Reef, Author of about
30 books, some in collaboration with
H. G. Wells and Professor Haldane,
Huxley is in Australia to deliver the
Dyason Lectures in all States.
A. J. Dunston, a 31-year-old English-
man, takes over the Chair of Latin from
Professor R. E. Smith at Sydney Uni-
versity. After War II assistant-lecturer
in Greek and Latin at London’s Uni-
versity College, Dunston moves to the
Sydney job from lecturing in classics at
Reading University.
Picked the Tansport folio out of the
N.S.W. Cabinet lucky-dip, Ernest
Wetherell has been in Parliament under
four years. His career prior to that
suggests the capacity for hard work, and
considerable initiative —qualities he can
do with in the new job. He started as a
miner at the age of 15 at Baringa
(N.S.W.), shifted to Broken Hill, and
after eight years of underground work
joined the Barrier “Daily Truth.” When
Macquarie-street called, he was that
paper’s managing-editor.
Declaring his innings closed with his
score 26 years secretary of the Australian
Cricket Board of Control, William Jeanes,
also for many years secretary of the S.
Australian Cricket Association, has his
roots in Woodville of that State, though
he was born in England. He shifted to
cricket in 1926 from a departmental-
manager’s job with Goldsbrough Mort,
and managed the Australian Test team
for its 1938 English tour. Cricket’s his
business ; golf’s his recreation.
“Fitz”: C. F. Laseron, whose The Face of
Australia was favorably inspected on the “Red
Page” recently, was born in the U.S. 65 years
ago, but came to this country at the age of
three. His father, an Englishman, was an
Anglican priest. Laseron’s long interest in
geology goes back to his boyhood days. At
the age of nine he had a geological museum
in a stable-loft at Lithgow (N.S.W.), charging
visitors Id. to view his collection. After attend-
ing classes in geology and other subjects at
the Sydney Technical College, where he was a
pupil of Emil Sussmilch, he got a job collecting
for the Sydney Technological Museum. For
five years he travelled over most of eastern
Australia gathering material for R. T. Baker,
the noted authority on Australian eucalypts and
pines and N.S.W. building-stones.
Douglas Mawson selected Laseron as assistant
zoologist to the 1911 Australasian Antarctic
expedition; he spent 18 months in toe polar
regions. In after years he wrote a book about
his Antarctic experiences, South With Mawson,
which won high praise from The Bulletin
when published. In War I Laseron served
with the A.1.F., was wounded in the right
foot and invalided home in 1916. His war
injury put an end to his field-work, and he
took up the study of Chinese porcelain and
bronze, which led to his being made oflficer-
in-charge of the applied art collection at toe
Technological Museum.
At the end of the ’twenties Laseron gave up
museum-work to go into business as an antique-
dealer and stamp-auctioneer. When War II
broke out he sold the business and got into
khaki again, despite his old war disability, and
was an infantry instructor until heart-tfouble
sent him into Yaralla Hospital. The past nine
years (apart from a spell as a clerk with a
sugar company) have been devoted to writing.
In addition to the two books mentioned he
has a third, Ancient Australia, awaiting pub-
lication by Angus and Robertson, and has
written extensively for scientific journals.
The 1953 Sims Empire Scholarship in
New Zealand, worth £345 annually for
two years, goes to M. T. Christensen, of
Canterbury University College. The
award is for merit in physics, mathematics
and chemistry. Christensen, who has been
assistant-lecturer in chemistry at the
university for a couple of years, will
develop his subjects at St. John’s College,
Oxford.
When the Exhibition Building in Mel-
bourne —one of the city’s leading white
elephants, full of silence except on rare
occasions—was transformed into head-
quarters of No. 1 School of Technical
Training for the R.A.A.F. in War 11,
Wing-Commander R. G. Francis was put
in charge of the thousands of trainees
who filled it with bustle and noise. One
of the War I flying aces, a chemist in
civil life, Francis (who has passed on in
Melbourne) was born in a bank, his
father being manager of the State Savings
Bank of Geelong. Feet damaged through
playing football in socks caused A.I.F.
doctors to reject Francis for War I
service. Undeterred by the fact that he’d
never seen an aircraft, he went to Queens-
land to join the Flying Corps, ending
with one of the most brilliant records in
the A.F.C., and a D.F.C.
The Melbourne R.A.S., now in full
swing with its Royal Coronation Show,
has a new president and new secretary in
charge. President T. N. Mitchell,
managing-director of a firm of manu-
facturers bearing his name, belongs to a
family which has been as closely
associated with the land as it has been
with the State’s agricultural show-
window. His father, John Mitchell, was
an R.A.S. member for 15 years from
1906, vice-president in 1916 and a trustee
in 1918. His brother, the late J.A., was
a member till 10 years ago, when the
present president was appointed to
succeed him. H. T. C. Woodful, the new
secretary, is in his first year of office.
Normally he practises as barrister and
solicitor in Melbourne.
“Uramao”: A nuggety Enzedder, Air-
Vice-Marshal Andrew McKee, has flown
high in the R.A.F. Fifty-one, he joined
the R.A.F. in 1925 and was in a few
minor wars prior to Hitler’s. One of
these was the Waziristan rising in India.
In War II he commanded a flight of
Wellington bombers, and at the cease-
fire was air-commodore commanding
three operational bombing-stations. The
new job will see McKee in close associa-
tion with Commander-in-Chief Air-
Marshal G. H. Mills, at Highwaycombe,
Buckinghamshire, and in charge of all
air operations for the command.
“Centurion”: Digger-mates of Frank
Reiter, M.C., M.M., five times wounded,
of Berry’s Creek, Gippsland, will be
pleased to know that he’s won the Vic-
torian State Dairy Championship. In
1946, at Heidelberg Military Hospital—
in between a series of successful opera-
tions in the field of plastic surgery—
Reiter studied the latest methods of
pasture-improvement and dairy-manage-
ment. Shortly after his discharge he
bought a small property and immediately
began putting precept into practice.
Within five years he has more than
doubled the butterfat-prpduction of his
farm, and hopes to achieve a production
of 200 pounds of butterfat per acre.
Reiter enlisted as a private in the 2/7
Battalion, winning his M.M. on Crete.
Left behind on the island, he joined the
guerrillas and later escaped to Egypt. In
the fighting on Bougainville he won M.C.
as a lieutenant, temporarily in command
of a company in the 31/51st Battalion.
As an A.I.F. brigadier Murray John
Moten was one of the most brilliant Aus-
tralian officers in New Guinea; in his
other profession he was g.-m. of the
Savings Bank of S. Australia when his
distinguished dual career ended the other
day in Adelaide. Enlisting on his
eighteenth birthday, he just missed
War I, but took on soldiering as
a hobby, and was in command
of the 43rd-48th Battalion at the
second outbreak. In the Western Desert
and Syria till 1941 (D. 5.0.), he took over
Savige’s Phantom 17th Brigade, and was
en route to Java when the island fell.
Within seven days of his getting back to
Australia in 1942 he had his first
glimpse of the eastern enemy at Milne
Bay. A few months later his brigade,
moved by air, landed on Wau aerodrome
v/ith the Japs already on the outskirts.
The desperate scrap which followed was
one of the turning-points of the Pacific
war; the operation concluded with the
breaking of the Jap defences at Salamaua,
described officially as a brilliantly
BRIGADIER
executed and faultless campaign. Then
came the Aitape-Wewak campaigns.
Finally, at Yamil, Brigadier Moten
arranged the surrender of General Adachi
and the Japanese 18th Army. Moten
was out of the Army six days when he
was recalled to take charge of the Aus-
tralian Army contingent for the Victory
Parade in London. Fifty-four at the end.
In his younger days, before he settled
down to gunnery-officering, Commander
Richard Peek was a bit of a flier —he
represented the Navy at running in the
combined services sports. In charge of
the Flinders gunnery-school when its
products were badly needed afloat in the
early days of War 11. he is now
back there second-in-command of
the whole sprawling establishment. In
COMMANDER
between, many leagues of saltwater
flowed past the sides of battle-
ship Revenge in the western war theatre,
and of cruisers Hobart and Australia in
the eastern. Something else, too, flowed
from Australia’s guns at Lingayen and
parts adjacent, and the accurate directing
of the stream of Sin. bricks brought
Peek, then squadron - gunnery - jack,
0.8. E. and D.S.C. After leading the
Naval section of the Victory contingent
in London, he went back to sea, com-
mands this time —destroyers Bataan and
Tobruk and frigate Shoalhaven. A rugged
individual, with something of a gun-
barrel about the direction of his back—
as befits one of the Navy’s senior bang-
bang experts.
“X.S.”; Exit Dick Buckley, once
known as the “Grey Ghost,” the terror
of the underworld of Melbourne, but
who in his last year was a grey ghost
of 90. He achieved notoriety when he
killed Constable David McGrath in a
gunfight at the Trades Hall in the early
hours of October 1, 1915, and got six
years. Released on parole in 1922, he
and Angus Murray held up Thomas
Berriman, a bank-manager at Glenferrie
station, shot him fatally in the chest and
grabbed a case containing £lB5l. Buckley
vanished into his natural habitat after
that for seven years, but was at length
caught in a cottage at Ascot Vale and
sentenced to death for the bank-
manager’s murder. The sentence was
commuted. He was released in 1946, a
spent force, and passed the rest of his
days quietly at his home at Port Mel-
bourne.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 62, Harry Grattan Guinness,
the energetic giant who joined Movietone News
when it was established in Sydney in 1929, and
had been managing-editor since 1935. A major
of artillery with toe B.E.F. in War I (M.C.),
in toe next outbreak he produced some 80
documentary-films for the British Ministry of
Information, one of the most outstanding of
which was a five-reel film called “The Last
Enemy,” an actuality production made in New
Guinea and designed to pass on toe Australians'
jungle-fighting knowledge to British troops in
Asia. He was born in Launceston and educated
at Cambridge.
At 61, in Melbourne, Frederick Brocks
Darling, tobacco-grower of King River Valley,
near Wangaratta, and for years president of the
Victorian Tobacco Growers’ Association.
Gallant service as a War I captain brought him
M.C. and bar, won in France.
In Sydney, at 70, Harold John Ritchie, a
physician distinguished to |he teaching of
clinical medicine. Lecturer in the subject for
19 years at Sydney University, and for 27 years
senior physician at Sydney Hospital, he was
one of toe first councillors of the R.A.C.P.,
its president for two years, and a hard-working
member of just about every medical association
of N.S.W. His only son is a Macquarie-street
medico.


On occasions like this I always feel
cjuite sentimental .
It inspires me to see youngs folk,
out in life ~to^ether
Tty hold the future of our race
in their hands .
® r //
yt takes me back to my dacjg’*
f?o you think if I aioryy to the reception
you might be able to slip me a. Spare bottle?'
THE POINT OF THE STORY


ABORIGINALITIES
“Gravelsnatcher”: The name of the
16 year-old aboriginal “star” of the film
“Jedda,” being filmed in the N.T., is spelt
Gnarla and pronounced Narla —and I’m
wondering what’s the purpose of the
silent G, and on whose authority it was
included. Silent letters in some English
words are justified, and warranted, on
the score of derivation, but why include
them in the names of a people which
had no written language of its own? The
Abo. name for the mallee-hen, in one
W.A. district, is allegedly gnow, and the
, town Gnowangerup is built on “the place,
or home, of the mallee-hen.” Good
enough, but why the initial G? The
word is pronounced “now,” and the town
“No-wangerup.”
* * * *
“G.”: It appears—-if the Redex-trial
drivers are to be believed —that yet
another kangaroo has taken to the bush
after being dressed in a coat containing
a sum of money, to the great discomfiture
of the coat’s owner. By my computation,
there must be by now several hundred
’roos, nattily attired and bearing great
sums upon "their persons, skipping about
the hinterland, as it’s about 40 years since
I first heard of such a happening, and
it’s been occurring fairly regularly ever
since. In fact, it appears to happen every
time a party of hard-boiled shrewd-heads
from the city encounters the simple and
ingenuous peasantry. On this occasion,
however, a certain novelty has been
introduced by making the owner of the
coat a New Australian instead of, as in
my day, a new-chum from the city.
Further, the marsupial has decamped
with £3O0 —a far greater sum than any
of his predecessors managed to snare,
which indicates either that even kangaroos
need more money to live on these days
or that inflation has reared its ugly head
in the leg-pulling game,
* * * *
“Horseless H.”: I don’t wonder at the
locals not knowing the origin of those
century-old graves on the Naracoorte-
Penola road (B. 26/8/’53).
I can give a much later
instance. In 1931 when the
Mildura - Balranald mail-
coach pulled up at the Ki
Downs box the sole pas-
senger got out to stretch
his legs and dropped dead.
It was summer, and I had
rushed up 10 miles to meet
the mail. The mailman,
carrying out the letter of
his Majesty’s contract,
went on to Euston leaving
me to mind his former
passenger. Later, when
the local trooper and
coroner arrived we buried
the departed by the road-
side with a railing around
the mound —why, with a
cemetery 17 miles away, I
have never understood.
But that’s only 23 years
ago, and I’ll wager no locals know that
dead bloke’s name. I don’t.
“5.4 E.”: The soft, pale-bodied little
gecko lizards that once lived on the walls
and ceilings of every N.Q. homestead are
returning to the wilds they inhabited
before the white man came, driven out
by the modern insect-sprays which kill
off the moths and flies on which they live.
The ring of light on the ceiling above
the lamp is bare of their prey, and dinner-
tables are no longer enlivened by the
involuntary descent of the occasional
hunter who stumbled perhaps on a nail-
head whilst darting at his dinner, to
land with a soft little “plop” in the veg.
or gravy. Such a calamity invariably led
to the fallen one being fished out with a
spoon, carefully dried on a napkin, and
tenderly restored to the wall —solicitude
that was a source of wonder to visitors
from the south, especially the females,
who turned on particularly fine displays
of squeaking and shuddering on such
occasions. Harmless except to flying
pests, the geckos were quite unafraid of
humans, perhaps the result of generations
of association. I’ve even known them to
accept choice moths from the fingers.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Elkeedra”: “G.” (B. 9/9/’53) is right
about the old bush precaution of making
one camp at sundown and shifting to
“George ! You KNOW I Wanted a whiting!"
another after dark, but you had to bait
the trap, so to speak. My father
always carried two mosquito-nets, one
white or nearly so, the other dyed a very
dark green. The white one was put up
close to the evening campfire. After
dark Dad would creep away with the
other one and the blankets, to make up
a second bunk among bushes where there
were plenty of dead sticks on the ground
to crackle. Twice he returned to find
spears stuck through the decoy net.
* * * *
“Muskeen”: Even as late as 1940 the
Sargent girls, of the Stapleton Pastoral
Co., near Adelaide River (N.T.) attended
mustering camps with revolvers in their
belts (B. 9(9/’53). But they toted them
for protection not against boongs, but
against scrub-bulls arid other obstreperous
bovines.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Count von Luckner’s ac-
count of his ride from Cape Leeuwin
“Look —a mice-hound !”
(W.A.) to Port Augusta has bamboozled
lots of people besides “Old-timer” (B.
9/9/’53). When von Luckner visited
Australia prior to Hitler’s war, one man
who met him said bluntly: “I lost all
faith in your claims after reading about
your ride to Port Augusta.” Yet the big
German was making no fantastic claim,
for there is a Port Augusta not so very
far from the Leeuwin, and it was to this
place that von Luckner rode —not the
better-known spot of the same name on
the far side of the Nullarbor,
♦ * ♦ *
“Salmon Gums”: The Federal and
W.A. Governments are to go halves in
the cost of improving the East Kimberleys
Stock-route. That’ll be the one which
follows the Ord River valley for about
200 miles and serves, among other sta-
tions, those the Duracks selected at the
end of their 2000-mile drove from the
Barcoo in 1885. A lot of beef comes
down that route to Wyndham, and a lot
more could if it is properly equipped.
But it will possibly cost more than the
£50,000 allotted. To begin with, there
should be a waterpoint every 10 or 12
miles, with a 10,000-acre paddock at each
point. Getting the water won’t be so
difficult or costly: it can be struck at
between 90ft. and 500 ft. along that
valley, and earth-tanks to hold up to
300,000 gallons can be constructed fairly
cheaply. The fences will cost plenty,
but they’re essential. With them, stock
can be turned loose where they can feed
without becoming boxed with the station
cattle; and that’s important. Cattle that
are ridden herd-on all night don’t feed
or rest properly and have to be counted
each day, and that all helps to reduce
each day’s travel. With good paddocks
cattle will do eight to 10 miles a day.
Without them five or six will be their
limit. The Wyndham meatworks can
handle close on 400 beasts daily, and as
the average mob coming down the Ord
valley is about 700-800 the route should
be equipped to carry a mob every two
or three days. That would keep the
meatworks going, and they might work
to capacity, particularly if a good route
makes it worth while to bring them over
from the N.T. Last year the works
handled about 30,000 beasts. They’ve
enough cold-storage for close on 50,000.
“Bass”: The snail does lay a slimy
trail, and slides along it (B. 2/9/’53);
but it also has a very muscular foot, and
if you watch a snail moving across a
piece of glass you can see the waves
caused by the contractions of that foot.
That’s how a snail propels itself along,
and it can move over any solid surface.
Thus it can move along the edge of a
razor-blade without injury, but strikes
trouble on dry, shifting sand. As for
the cause of its death, that’s easy. One
of the few land-dwelling types of a species
that’s mainly marine, the garden snail
can’t survive without moisture; but he
gets over a dry stage by withdrawing
into his shell and using his slime to close
the opening and exclude all air. In other
words, he aestivates to beat the summer
drought. “Brick E.’s” snail did that and
waited for the first rains. And, where he
was, the rains never came.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Master Mariner”: To compare the
comparatively small tea-clippers with the
“black-ball” emigrant ships (B. 2/9/’53)
is hardly fair. Clippers like Gutty Sark
and Thermopylae, besides being smaller,
carried full cargoes, which resulted in a
low freeboard —a handicap when running
the eastern down. On the other hand
the black-bailers Lightning and James
Baines, carrying emigrants and a handful
of cargo, rode high and dry before the
strong westerlies. On her maiden voyage
Thermopylae took 63 days from London
to Melbourne, making over 300 miles
daily for nine days. One old-timer, the
Golden Age, later renamed Challenge,
logged 22 knots, which piece of foolish-
ness badly strained her hull.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Old-timer”: Old Lew had been
around that part of the Murray
since it was first dug. Men who
could remember the ’9O flood didn’t
talk about it when Lew was there,
because he could recall floods way before
that. He seemed to have been present ai
everything worth recording in the past
150 years. It was a popular belief that
when they built Medley’s pub Lew was
already leaning there so they simply built
the bar around him, and then went on
whh the rest of it. One Saturday we
rode in, parked the prads, and went to
the bar. There was Lew. We irrigated
ourselves andjrim several times. Squeaker
came in. He was fresh from Mildura
Hospital and bursting to tell us about his
operation. “Have a drink,” we invited.
“Can’t,” Squeaker confessed. “Doc. says
got t’ keep off it f’r two months. He
reckons it’ll make me sick.” Old Lew
squared back from the bar. “That’s
right,” he quavered, “I can remember the
time when a beer was just poison t’ me.
Just poison.” He paused, preparing to
launch into his tale. But Squeaker wasn’t
having any. “That’s a ruddy lie,” he
declared. “I’ve heard you goin’ on about
how you remember this an’ remember
that, but I’m blanked if I’ll believe you
can remember that far back.”
THE ROCKS
Hot-cha-cha and a barbecue, and jeans and a
dosie-do , .
And a grinning ape at a trumpet-end, and a
seat at a Three-D show;
And some bubble-gum, and a hamburger, and
some Yankee sauce on beans —
Doesn’t the youngster want to know how much
old Sydney means? . . .
I’d take him back to Argyle Cut when the Rocks
were friendly stones;
Where his fathers felt the labor pains, and wept
for women’s groans;
Where sweet Nurse Martin started work
beyond much thought of pay
And Nannie Stewart’s open house made hungry
youngsters pray.
Old Nannie Stewart’s “Do-drop-inn,” where
every schoolkid knew
Were bread and jam, plum, quince or peach,
for eager teeth to chew;
Where big Sol Murray heaved the coal with
muscles bulging taut,
And watermen in Bang-All-street beamed
broadly as they fought.
Where Long Tom Duffell’s sergeant’s stripes
marked one revered John Hop
Who never lagged the larrikins till past the
time to stop;
And then he wouldn’t put them in, but, in his
best attire,
Took them along to Trinity, and pressed them
in the choir!
And there a twelvemonth they must sing as
Darcy Irvine’s mates —
So sinners blossomed into saints, old Tom’s
regenerates.
Green Tyke and Orange prodhopper grew, as
Australians ought,
Friends of the Rocks: St. Patricks, some, the
others schooled at Fort.
Nurse Martin watched her foster-sons and once-
small kids grow grey:
Old codgers at the Knowledge Tree, passing a
workless day.
They won their wives at Flagstaff Hill; they
drank at Shipwright’s Inn —
Nurse Martin dreamed of those who died of
gatling-guns or gin.
They had small money at the Rocks; no basic
wage they spent;
They lived for months on bread-and-scrape;
some barely earned the rent.
Yet from Frog Hollow to the Cut, and where
Dawes Point descends,
They lived in noble brotherhood, and, dying,
left but friends.
Each little House was open-house when deadly
ills beset:
This was the spirit of the Rocks; to give, if
hard to get.
Sodality and Orange kids marched, weeping,
side by side —
And angels mourned with Argyle Cut the day
Nurse Martin died . . .
Hot-cha-cha and a barbecue, and jeans and a
dosie-do
And a grinning ape at a trumpet-end, and a
seat at a Three-D show;
And some bubble-gum and a hamburger, and
some Yankee sauce on beans —
Yet his granddad came from Argyle Cut and
he does know what it means.
N.S.W.
ERIC BAUME.


“Macßopus”: The song which the old
Irishman wanted (B. 2/9/’53) must have
been the “Battle of the Boiling Water,”
and not the Boyne battle. One verse of
the song is “Up to my knees in Irish
blood, up to my knees in slaughter,
Brian BorUhais was cut in two at the
Battle of the Boiling Water.” That battle
was one in which the Irish inflicted a
great defeat on the invading Danes, the
great Brian leading the kerns and losing
his life in the bloody battle. And the
song commemorating the battle is one
of the great songs of the fighting Irish,
though- not on a par with “O’Donnell
Aboo,” which is one of the finest fighting
and marching songs I know, referring to
Red Hugh O’Donnell’s fight against the
“proud Saxons.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Yet again a late frost
in our district has nipped both the hopes
and the tomato-plants of many market-
gardeners who had gambled on any early
crop. It was a minor disaster that never
happened to the scores of Chinese who
worked the alluvial-soiled flats in my
early youth. Although the Celestial must
surely be the most ardent gambler of
any race, he never took a chance with
Jack Frost. Every tomato-plant John
Chinaman transplanted had its little
tripod of sticks around it and a small
square of jute bagging to form a minia-
ture wigwam. 'The morning’s first job
was the quick, stooping trot up the rows,
darting yellow hands flicking the pieces
of bag off their sticks, but leaving them
in the exact position for the covering-up
process at night. To watch a Pat whisking
those bags back over the tripods at dusk
was to see oiled efficiency of movement
with absolutely no negative motion. It
seemed that he was picking up the third
one while the end of the first was still
forming itself into a jute cone and the
second was whirling around on its way.
* * * *
“W.J.W.”: The gum found on black-
boys is a hard, brittle substance which
early W.A. settlers dissolved in methy-
lated-spirits for use as a furniture-polish.
Manna-gum (B. 26/8/’53) is the stuff that
“Emjai” ate as a kid--—or something very
like it. It’s a wattle-gum, but it comes
from a particular species of wattle —
Acacia microbotrya —and in W.A. that
wattle grows to about 10ft. and is found
along watercourses and around springs
through a limited belt in the south-west.
It’s a true gum, dispersible in water, but
insoluble in organic solvents such as
alcohol and ether. Its main use to date
has been as an adhesive. If German
chemists have found a new use for it
they’ve kept it to themselves.
* * * *
“Swelpme”: The hand-operated post-
hole-digger had just come to our district
when Old Mac, the local builder and
fencing-contractor, got his inspiration.
“A good idea,” he conceded. “But they
can be improved on.” For several week-
ends he shut himself in his workshop all
day, locking the doors when he left at
night. Then one Monday morning his
old T-model Ford bore a strange burden
to the job. With modest pride he set
up the contrivance on the fence-line. It
was a frame-like affair fitted with pulley-
wheels and a shaft that connected to a
posthole-digger of the large-auger type.
Methodically the inventor jacked up one
rear wheel, fitted a pulley on the hub and
slipped a driving belt from vehicle to
invention. Then he started the engine
and, gripping a lever above the borer,
pressed downwards. The auger touched
the ground; bit in, and—his invention
promptly turned on him, delivered a
hearty kick in the shins, then as he
doubled up caught him a haymaker under
the chin. Now, 25 years after, The
Bully’s pages advertise a mechanical
posthole-digger. Somebody must have
found a way to prevent the machine from
taking-off and whizzing around the borer.
* * * *
“Keima”: The statement by “Salmon
Gums” that “8,000,000 meteorites” enter
earth’s atmosphere daily is wrong on two
counts (B. 9/9/’53). The number accepted
by astronomers is 8000 million, perhaps
even more and they’re meteors.
Meteors are usually the size of grains
of sand or peas, and very few are large
enough to be seen ; those that are are the
so-called “shooting-stars.” Most meteors,
through the heat generated by the vast
speed at which they travel through the
“Not TOO fast. Nugget—y' might bust through th' sound-barrier."
atmosphere, are quickly burnt-up by
friction. A meteorite is a meteor not thus
consumed but which survives to plunge,
a solid mass, to the earth —the larger
meteors, of course. Exceedingly few
meteors become meteorites (certainly no-
where near 8,000,000 a day); which is
why “a surprisingly small number are
found.” If most meteors did hit the
ground life would be more unsure than
it is in our atom-bomb era.
♦ ♦ * *
“Old Bushman”: In the lambing pad-
docks at Strathdownie, between Casterton
and Mt. Gambier (S.A.), hurricane-lamps
fitted to four-gallon drums are used to
keep foxes from taking the lambs. It
works, too. Oddly enough, the lamp-
flame doesn’t keep the foxes out of the
sheep maternity wards —they can be seen
there any night by spotlight—but the
lanterns seem to alert Renard and make
him wary. One sheepman there told me
he brought his ewes and lambs into a
house-paddock and, though he heard and
saw foxes there, he never lost a lamb
until he forgot to refill the lamps. Then
he lost 10 in two nights. \
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“The Bunyip”: Anybody seen a half-
crown lately? The one on our shelf bears
signs of the seclusion in which it spent
the last 30 years. Back in the days when
a bloodcurdling yodel half a mile up
the road was the signal for Mum to grab
the meat-plate and head for the front
gate, she would reach there just as Les
the butcher halted his chestnut or his
grey, dropped the tailboard, snatched up
a bunch of bracken and settled down
tc- hack off our chosen joint. Then he'd
saunter in for the usual cuppa,
We liked Les. but Mum hated handling
the greasy chLige. and one day when it
6 J . It. it. * u
was more suety than usual she pu it
m a cup and covered it with boiling
water. The cup was still there when
young Dave landed in thirsty from some
nocturnal prowl, felt the cup with water
or something in it—pitched the contents
into the ash bucket and got himself a
drink. For years odd coins kept turning
up in the garden, then we forgot about
it; but the other day when searching
for a good spot for some special shrub
somebody remembered where there used
to be an ash-heap—and up came a shil-
ling and the half-crown, both with the
head of Victoria. They won’t buy as
much as they could have before they were
buried, but at least Mum’s main purpose
has been achieved. They are no longer
greasy.
* * * *
“Blime”: It was a likely-looking store
on the edge of the town, and apparently
it sold everything from cough-mixture
tc ploughshares. When I entered an
assistant with waves in his hair and an
orange-spotted shirt was standing by a
big showcase dangling gimcrack jewellery
before the appraising eyes of a female.
I strolled alongside and waited my turn.
“You got a dog-collar?” I asked then.
“Oh, yes, quite a nice line,” he replied,
and bending down came up holding a
whole slab of beads joined together.
“No,” I waved them away. “I want a
dog-collar.” “A—er, oh, yes. I know
what you mean. A choker type, eh?”
Again he delved int the case and
emerged, this time with a box of what
looked like enormous pearls, which he
held up for inspection. “Look!” I
tried again. “Haven’t you got a dog-
collar?” He looked vague. “I —er, well,
I just don’t quite know. What does it
look like, the line you require?” “It’s
a leather strap,” I explained patiently,
“with a buckle on one end and a row
of holes at the other, an’ a ring to clip
the chain on.” Light flooded his coun-
tenance, which immediately took on a
supercilious expression, “Oh,” he ex-
claimed, “what you want is a dog-
collar r
* * * *
“Sack”: Young Jumb has always
seemed extremely proud of his little
brother —the little brother being about
10 years older than he is, and a profes-
sional jockey. When Tich rode he could
always be sure of at least one supporter
on the course, both financially and
morally. But last Saturday Jumb was
faced with a dilemma —Tich told him
frankly: “I’m on a goer, but I don’t think
he can beat Lollylegs. My moke’ll be
pretty short-priced, but you should get a
good price about Lollylegs.” To support
Tich or take his tip—that was the ques-
tion. Reluctantly Jumb planked his
dough on Lollylegs. On Monday we
heard the sad story; “There they were,
neck and neck, but Tich was already
flaying his horse. Then the boy on Lolly-
legs went for the whip. As soon as he
did Tich crowded in on him; he didn’t
have a ghost of a chance of using it.
Barefaced murder it was. Tich won by
a nose. Gripes, you ought’ve heard the
mob boo. A bloke near me called Tich
for everything.” “Didn’t you shut him
up?” asked Old George in surprise.
“Shut him up? Why?” demanded Jumb.
“Well,” George said, “blood’s thicker
than water, isn’t it?” “Yairs,” admitted
Jumb slowly. “But it ain’t as thick as
money.”
LONELINESS
Under the full white moon’s effulgent ray
The mountain slept, black and mysterious;
Across the horse-paddock the long grass lay
White as a frozen sea; imperious,
Frost laid its stilling touch on all, to hush
To pregnant immobility the bush.
Then came the dingoes’ call; a sudden cold,
Fierce sword of sound driven into the night,
Riving the silence wide; waking the old,
The ancient echoes into shuddering fright;
The curlews to bemoan the solitude,
Piping the obsequies of quietude.
Again, again the agonising thrust
Stabbed the dead silence; an expiring sigh
Shivered the silvered leaves; stirring the dust;
Chill but evanescent, as, fluting high,
The curlews mourned again the loneliness,
The ravaged stillness of the wilderness.
Pitifully the last low piping died,
And, as the reborn silence lived, I turned,
Like witness of stark tragedy tired-eyed,
Seeking your customed comforting, and learned
My questing vain; the hoar-frost touched again
The night to peace, my heqrt to frozen pain.
N.S.W.
HUI TE RANGIORA.
THAT TERRIBLE WEAPON
By LES SUCH
I SUPPOSE the cane-knife is about
the most maligned tool on the market
—at least, anywhere except in Queens-
land. Fictionists and others represent
it as a terrible weapon.
Ask anyone, and what you’ll most
likely get is “It’s like a machette.” It
isn’t. Nor is it like any other kind of
bush-knife.
And it’s not heavy, as some writers
would have us believe. If it was you
couldn’t swing it for six hours a day and
still have a wrist.
Nor can you cut anyone’s head or arm
off with one mighty swipe of it, as the
fiction-writers are always trying to ram
down our necks (including Jack London,
who should have known better) —well,
not a cane-cutter’s head or arm, anyway.
And then there are the illustrators.
I’ve seen this gracefully shaped tool,
which probably took generations to
evolve, represented in story illustrations
as machettes, bush-knives, vague things
like a cross between a laurel-leaf and a
FIG. 1
FIG. 2
FIG. 3
Gurkha’s kookri, a sickle, a billhook and
a butcher’s cleaver. Even a cartoonist
whose daily comic-strip is set in the cane-
country hasn’t yet found out what cane-
knives look like.
Well, as they say in the Army, an
eyeful is better than an earful, so here
(Fig. 1) is what the brand-
new article looks like.
In the cane-camp the
night before the season
starts there is great activity
as each man shapes his
knife to his liking. The
seasoned cutter will get
down to it with a file and
work away at the blade
until it looks like Fig. 2,
with the fall right and the
weight all in the toe. And
he’ll keep it that way every
time he sharpens it in the
field, whereas the tyro will let it get into
the state shown in Fig. 3 through sharpen-
ing it where the most wear is and
neglecting to keep the
lower part backed-off.
A cane-knife is made
of practically the same
steel as a crosscut-saw,
and length over-all of
the largest is 18 inches.
There are smaller
models. The haft (of
wood) is pared down
by the user to suit his
hand and grip, and is
polished - off with a
piece of broken bottle
to make it smooth for
(the hand softened by
six months of slack
season.
What’s the hook for?
To rake away the trash
or dead leayea f mm
the stools, although this is un-
necessary nowadays because all cane
is burnt before being cut. And,
in any case, in the old days no
cane-cutter worth his salt would use
it, because the face of the knife did a
better and easier job in capable hands.
But still the hook remains and the knife
would look wrong without it.
In a cane-fire you use the flat of the
knife for bashing out the floaters along
the fire-break, and if you practise long
enough you can throw the knife like a
Red Indian throws his tomahawk. I once
saw a man decapitate a snake this way
at quite a few yards’ range.
In the sheds of a cane-farm there are
always a number of old cane-knives lying
around (you wear out several in a season).
They are used for cutting cane-plants,
cutting burrs and cutting bread. And
they are just the thing for cutting your
way through the jungle.
When the weather gets hot towards the
end of the season it is wise to wear a
strip of flannel round your right wrist
to stop the sweat streaming into your
knife-hand, because if the knife slips you
might slice the man nearest you.
Do I like cane-knives? Well, nol
Never will I forget the blister the first
one gave me—just one blister; there was
no room on my hand for any more*
Instruments of torture we called then®,
but a, terrible weapon--bunkum I


m
zm
Mm
mi
mm
mmm
mm
.Full STRENGTH. —
"«J-«>hTtt< 1 s , p„i £. •!. QJS
*^fmt
P50/54
GUARD
PROTECTA
fiVntl-StU
TILL
Bailable for every type of boilnen it records
all Sales, Credits. Payouts etc. Strongly ball!,
pleasing to appears nee. Send for full details
and literature to
MCKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
MELBOURNE .. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE .. Yardon & Sons Ltd.
PERTH .. ..Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
TILI
Regd. Supreme 100%
BRITISH
MADE
KERO LAMPS & LANTERNS
While import restrictions
remain you may have diffi-
culty in obtaining TILLEY
products.
For quality —for economy —for safety you must choose
Ais TILLEY STORM LANTERN Model X 246! Made only
by TILLEY, it is an engineering job of the highest quality.
Burns 12 hours on 1J pints of Kero. 300 Candle Power.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores
Manufacturer’s Representatives:
MODEL X 246
(“THE GUARDSMAN")
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
SYDNEY NEWSPAPER UPROAR
The hearing was continued
last week before Myers, J., in the
N. S. Wales Equity Court of the
case in which Gabriel Selmar
Reichenbach, solicitor, sought
an injunction to restrain deal-
ings by Associated Newspapers
and John Fairfax and Sons in
the shares of Associated News-
papers, Ltd.
Under cross-examination wit-
nesses stated that the deal where-
by John Fairfax and Sons Pty.,
Ltd., had bought 678,674 un-
issued ord. shares in Associated
Newspapers, “an unusual trans-
action of mammoth propor-
tions,” was hurried through to
prevent other newspaper interests
from competing within the com-
pany and forming warring
factions and groups among
Associated shareholders; that
the “Sunday Sun” and the “Sun-
day Herald” were to be merged
into one paper ; that the “Sydney
Morning Herald” was to be
printed and published at the
“Sun” office; that Mr. Rupert
Henderson, managing-director
of the “Herald,” had become
chief general-manager of Asso-
ciated ; and already there had
been many dismissals from the
“Sun.”
Early in the proceedings
Judge Myers said that Reichen-
bach’s suit could succeed only if
the plaintiff could prove that the
directors of Associated did not
exercise their power to issue
shares bona fide for the purpose
and benefit of Associated News-
papers, Ltd., or what they con-
sidered to be the benefit of the
company.
[On August 37 Frank Packer made
an offer, on behalf of his Consoli-
dated Press (publishers of the daily
and Sunday “Telegraphs,” “Women’s
Weekly” and “A.M.”) of 20s. each
for the issued ord. shares in Asso-
ciated Newspapers, publishers of
the “Sun” (daily and Sunday),
“Woman,” “Pix,” “People” and other
periodicals.
The same day Sir John Butters,
chairman’ of Associated Newspapers,
told his shareholders not to dispose
of their shares, as negotiations were
proceeding with John Fairfax and
Sons (publishers of the “Sydney
Morning Herald” and “Sunday
Herald”) for “the integration of
the whole of their individual facil-
ities,” and that the Fairfaxes had
agreed to buy the 678,674 unissued
£1 ordinary shares in Associated
Newspapers at par. Packer then
made an offer of 255. for Associated
shares. On August 31 the “Herald”
announced that the Fairfax deal
with Associated had been completed.]
In an affidavit Ronald Arthur Irish,
chartered accountant and a director
of Associated Newspapers, said that
the bank overdraft of the co. with
the Australia and New Zealand Bank
amounted to £1,650,636 at September
28, 1952, and that prior to that date
the bank had requested the co. to
reduce its overdraft to not more than
£750,000, and to furnish additional
security. The amount of the liability
on December 28, 1952, was £1,507,657,
and on July 26, 1953, it was £931,512.
The reduction was accomplished by
not replacing paper stocks as they
were used. During the next three
months, declared Irish, payments for
paper will be considerable.
Without the aid of the £678,674
paid for the unissued capital by John
Fairfax and Sons the overdraft would,
in Irish’s opinion, increase to an
amount in excess of £1,000,000. Half-
yearly repayments of part of a debt
of £750,000 owing to the A.M.P.
had, in 1952 and 1953, at the request
of Associated, been postponed until
1964. Low profits had made it im-
possible for Associated to raise new
ordinary share-capital, because the
ords. were consistently below par,
but Irish regarded it essential to
stabilise the “unbalanced financial
structure of the company” by raising
new ordinary capital.
Following a meeting with Mr. H.
N. F. Mac Donnell, from the Sydney
branch of Binder, Hamlyn and Co.,
chartered accountants, of London, on
behalf of Packer, an Associated com-
mittee of directors considered a
written offer from Consolidated (re-
ceived August 17), as well as a sug-
gestion for a merger or an exchange
of shares with the Melbourne
“Herald.” Subsequently considera-
tion was also given to further sugges-
tions by the Melbourne “Herald” and
to an offer from Mr. Henderson, on
behalf of John Fairfax and Sons, to
match any offer made by Consolidated
Press. On August 27 it was agreed
that the Fairfax offer was acceptable.
On August 31 the Fairfax cheque
"I don't care if it's got as much chlorophyll as twenty
cabbages — I HATE cabbage !”
was received and the Associated
shares allotted.
Douglas Frank Hewson Packer,
managing-director of Consolidated
Press, said, under cross-examination,
that Consolidated Press had indemni-
fied Reichenbach (the co.’s solicitor)
in respect of his costs in the action,
but that Reichenbach had volunteered
to proceed with the action, and Con-
solidated had been looking for some-
one to act.
Consolidated, said Packer, had been
trying to buy a control in Associated
Newspapers; the idea originated in
April or May this year. R. A. G.
Henderson, managing-director of the
“Sydney Morning Herald,” had said
to him on the phone, “I believe you
are trying to buy Associated?” and
he had replied, “Oh, I wouldn’t be
interested in a proposition like that.”
The conversation was on a facetious
plane, and he was not obliged to
tell Henderson the truth. When, later,
Henderson had completed the deal
for John Fairfax and Sons to buy
the unissued shares in Associated,
Henderson had sent him a telegram:
“Best wishes. Kind regards.” Packer
replied: “Thanks for your cheery
news. Remember ‘Woman’s Day’!”
Packer said that in his negotiations
to buy the issued shares in Associated
Newspapers he had arranged finance
from the E., S. and A. Bank to the
extent of £2,180,000, portion of the
loan for 2\ years. Over that period
he undertook to integrate the two
organisations, obtain finance by
debentures, and reduce the overdraft.
He felt that the A.M.P. Society
would increase their debentures if
he could show a good profit position.
Packer said he had had no negotia-
tions with the London “Daily
Mirror” for 18 months or two years.
The proposal to sell shares in Con-
solidated to the “Daily Mirror” had
terminated about a year ago.
Packer told Shand, Q.C. (for Asso-
ciated), that on August 19 he wrote
to Sir John Butters, chairman of
Associated, assuring him that he had
the funds to buy Associated’s ord.
shares, and that there was no overseas
capital in the deal. Circulars to
Associated shareholders from Con-
solidated were printed on the night
of August 26. A shareholder, Mr.
Hacking, said he was very distressed
about the position, and it was decided
to get Hacking to convene a
shareholders’ meeting. Hacking was
father of the advertising-manager of
“A.M.,” a Consolidated weekly.
Packer admitted that the “very
efficient and excellent plant” of Asso-
dated Newspapers offered advantages
to Consolidated. His own presses
were very old —the old “Evening
News” presses, 27 years old.
Hercules Neville Forsyth Mac-
Donnell, chartered accountant and a
member of the London firm of
Binder, Hamlyn and Co., gave
evidence that he was asked by Packer
last May to investigate the possibility
of negotiating the deal with Asso-
ciated Newspapers. He had previously
made an investigation for Packer
concerning the “Daily Telegraph”
group and the Melbourne “Argus.”
He went to England in May and
returned in June; he was on business
for Consolidated Press. He denied
that during the visit he interviewed
representatives of London “Daily
Mirror,” and no approach had been
made by his London office to the
“Mirror.”
Mac Donnell said that, in his nego-
tiations with Associated on behalf
of Consolidated, Packer felt a certain
amount of confidence that the offer
would be recommended by Associated
directors to their shareholders. On
August 7 he went to Canberra and
saw the delegate to the Common-
wealth Treasury, Mr. Balmford. He
received verbal consent on a verbal
proposition that Consolidated would
wish to borrow £750,000 on deben-
tures over the next 2j years at an
interest rate not exceeding 5 p.c. He
told Balmford that Consolidated was
anxious to buy shares at a total cost
of £1,100,000, that funds were avail-
able from the E., S. and A., and that
Consolidated wished to borrow an
additional amount. He deliberately
refrained from mentioning Associated
Newspapers when discussing the
matter with Balmford.
Ronald Arthur Irish, cross-
examined by Gordon Wallace, Q.C.
(for Reichenbach), said that Asso-
ciated Newspapers’ bank had stressed
the need for his company to get m
more capital. He thought that
the “Sydney Morning Herald s
announcement, on August 28, that
it had, in effect, obtained a control-
ling interest in Associated was to
make Packer realise that it was im-
possible for him to succeed in his
share-buying proposal. The “Herald”
at this time did not have a controlling
interest, Irish agreed.
Mr. Irish also agreed that the
“Herald” had, on the same date,
announced that the identity of the
newspapers would be preserved, and
that independence of Associated News-
papers’ publications had been agreed
upon. He admitted that on September
27 the “Sunday Sun” and “Sunday
Herald” were to be amalgamated
into one newspaper, but he did not
know on August 28 that this was
going to happen. He knew by about
September 3. The “Sunday Sun”
had been making profits, while the
“Sunday Herald” had been running
at a loss. The “Sunday Sun” would
be temporarily issued from the
“Herald” office under a different
name, and would carry the name of
either “Sun” or “Herald.”
The “Herald” was to be published
from the “Sun” premises.
Irish admitted that there was some
hurry in the negotiations with the
“Herald” in order to present Packer
with an accomplished fact. The
matter was so urgent that he and
Mr. Angus McLachlan, general-
manager of the “Herald,” had gone
to Canberra on August 30; they
arrived there at 2 p.m. and booked
in at the Hotel Canberra for the
night. But by 4 p.m. they had got
Capital Issues consent to a new issue
of shares by Associated and were
motoring back to Sydney.
During cross-examination, Irish
agreed that he and McLachlan had
been able to induce Balmford to
open his office on a Sunday and
sign a form of approval to the new
issue. Balmford wrote out the form
by hand and put the wrong date
on it. McLachlan, in copying it
on a typewriter, had made the same
mistake —it was dated the 31st
instead of the 30th. It was wrong
to suggest that the three of them
had deliberately dated the document
falsely. Balmford’s calendar had been
turned over to Monday by his sec-
retary. Irish told Mr. Wallace that
Balmford had been informed on
Saturday afternoon that they were
coming to Canberra. There had been
talk of suspending Associated shares
from Stock Exchange dealings.
After they had got Capital Issues
consent, Irish and MacLachlan went
“post-haste back to Sydney,” apd a
board-meeting of Associated News-
papers’ directors was held. The
company’s minute-book said that the
meeting was held on August 31, a
Monday. The meeting opened at
10 p.m. on Sunday and was adjourned
to five minutes past midnight on
Monday morning. The directors
present were Sir John Butters, Mr.
R. E. Denison and himself. They
proceeded to conclude the bargain
with the “Herald,” after considering
a • letter enclosing a cheque for
£678,674.
The wrong date on the Capital
Issues .consent was not the reason
why they adjourned the meeting until
after midnight. Irish said that it
was intended to issue a circular to
shareholders, giving a history of .the


n
N
“You can bank
on the ‘Wales’ 99
“This is the perfect example. Flying
saves time, and time is money to me. The
‘Wales’ saves me time, too, with up-to-
date, accurate information and a banking
organization that’s never let me down.
Even this flight and my hotel reservations
were arranged by the ‘Wales’ Travel
Department.”
«» 4
/
You, too, should con-
sult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5321C
FOB SAFE:
CROSSLEY DIESEL GENERATING SET
112 h.p. 400 r.p.m., complete with Alternator. 70 KVA, 416 V., 3 phase,
50 cycles.
This set complete with Air Receiver, Compressor, Control Panel and Spare
Parts.
This Unit can be purchased cheap, and can be inspected by applying to: —
MALLEABLE CASTINGS PTY. LTD.,
Rich Street, MARRICKYILLE. ’Phone LM5451.
i,...
mmrn**-
M
John Hamilton, Quiz Kid
John Hamilton, 13, could hardly help being selected for the
panel in the famous Quiz Kids programme. An only child,
both his mother and father are school teachers. His main
hobby is reading—with stamp collecting a poor second. He’s
always had an intense interest in the Navy and ships, but
thinks he’ll be a lawyer when he grows up. Meanwhile, he’s
an outstanding pupil at Sydney Boys’ High School.
Compered by John Dease and presented with the good wishes of Johnson
and Johnson, the ‘‘Quiz Kids” is a feature production by
(Ml
The ispi MCo.lEl XSroadeasttmj Service
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2CA, 2HR, 2LF, 2MG, 2MW, 2LT, 2PK, 2WL, 3CV, 4GY, 6WB, 6MD, 6BY, 7LA
negotiations, when the court proceed-
ings intervened. It was wrong to
suggest that the Fairfaxes were now
cracking the whip, said Mr. Irish.
Although, said Mr. Irish, Asso-
ciated had no agreement in writing
with the Fairfaxes for the protection
of Associated shareholders, the under-
standing with the “Herald” involved
a firm proposal to unify management,
all the “Herald” publications to be
published from the “Sun” premises
and plant, plant to be rationalised
as far as possible, editorial policies
to be controlled through the respec-
tive boards and ownership of publica-
tions to remain with the respective
companies, the “Herald” would sub-
scribe the additional capital at par,
and two directors of the “Herald,”
Fairfax and Henderson, would go
on the board of Associated News-
papers.
Henderson, under this agreement,
had become chief general-manager of
Associated at 2.30 p.m. on August
31. He had already dismissed a large
number of the Associated staff. He
had indicated to Mr. Eric Kennedy,
chief executive-officer, that he was
going, too.
The sequence of events was that
the “Herald,” having heard rumors
about Consolidated’s offer, told
Butters that it would match
offer for offer. Associated told the
“Herald” that it would not listen to
any proposal of an outright sale of
the assets. Butters had put the new
capital-issue proposition to the Fair-
faxes on August 25. As regards
offers from Consolidated, Melbourne
“Herald” and the possibility of an
offer from Ezra Norton (“Truth” and
“Daily Mirror”), fresh capital was
not sought from them because “we
were not hawking our business around
Sydney. We were not going to tell
our competitors that we needed fresh
capital. If the deal had fallen
through we would have been in a
catastrophic position,” Mr. Irish told
Mr. Wallace, Q.C.
Questioned further by Wallace,
Q.C., about the visit to Canberra to
obtain Capital Issues consent, Irish
said that the Commonwealth Actuary,
Mr. Balmford, had told him that his
experts had found three mistakes in
the official consent-form —a failure to
put on the correct file-number, the
typing of his name as “W. L.” instead
of “W. C.” Balmford and the wrong
date of August 31, Balmford had
told him he would adjust the mis-
takes. It had been decided to go to
Canberra on Sunday instead of Mon-
day after the “Telegraph” raised its
offer to 255, a share for Associated
ords.
Mr. Wallace, addressing, agreed
with Judge Myers’s suggestion that
one of the objects in issuing the
678,674 Associated shares was to
keep Packer out. Wallace went on
to say that there were other objec-
tives—a personal animus against
Packer, a desire for Associated direc-
tors to remain on the board and
obtain from the Fairfaxes what they
could not get from Consolidated
Press, a move to prevent Packer from
doing what he said he could do in
his letter of August 14—reduce the
price of the “Telegraph” from 4d.
to 3d. and the “Sunday Telegraph”
from 6d. to 4d. It was in the interest
of the “Herald” that Packer should
not succeed in his objectives, and in
the interests of the “Sun” that the
price of the paper should not be
reduced.
Mr. Hardie, Q.C., for Associated,
said that Packer’s affidavit did not
throw any light on the question of
whether Associated needed fresh
capital, but it did show that Packer
was vitally interested in holding up
the working-out of the agreement
between Associated Newspapers and
John Fairfax and Sons. “Mr.
Packer’s action in bringing this suit,”
said Mr. Hardie, “is due to the fact
that he was outmanoeuvred by Mr.
Henderson.”
During Mr. Hardie’s address Judge
Myers said: “Mr. Irish has said there
was never any agreement in any con-
crete form, but there was an earlier
vague understanding of a merger. I
then find a document which purports
to be a record of some pre-existing
agreement. I didn’t find the gentle-
man who drew it giving evidence
before me. Nor do I hear Sir John
Butters called to explain about it.
That must inevitably raise doubt in
my mind as to what really took place
between these parties prior to the
midnight conference. It does seem
to indicate that there is some very
substantial matter which requires
investigation.” His Honor said a
little later: “I am not casting the
slightest reflection on Mr. Irish. But
I find Mr. Henderson saying in this
document that there is an agreement
and that these are its provisions.
When I see that there, and when 1
know that it has been seen by Sir
John Butters, how can I say that
there was not such an agreement
when neither of them is called to
explain it? The difficulty is the lack
of explanation of these sort of
things.”
Speaking to Mr. Hardie, Judge
Myers said: “If your case were that
an agreement had been made on
August 28 and the directors con-
sidered that it was in the interests of
the company to merge on that foot-
ing and to issue capital, I don’t think
that I could have resisted it as being
a proper exercise of its powers. But
that is not the case. Your case is
that the only motive was the raising
of further capital and that no agree-
ment was made at all. That is the
difficulty I have before me.”
The case was adjourned (on Thurs-
day) to September 22.
Sharemarket Reaction
After the swift rise in prices
that followed the Budget
announcement of tax-reductions,
which promised industry and the
investor considerable relief,
there was a sharp reaction in
Australian share prices,
prompted, apparently, by a
heavy fall on Wall-street. When
the United States position began
to improve Australian stocks
started to rally again.
But 8.H.P., A.C.1., Bank of
N. S. Wales and many other
stocks are still available at prices
well below those offered by
buyers the day after the Budget
was presented. It would appear
to be a good time to study the
market with the idea of selective
buying, especially in view of the
fact that the tax-reductions offer
prospects of a considerably
higher net income to investors
where companies pass on a pro-
portion of the benefit and the
investor gets the full advantage
of the abolition of the 16d. tax-
loading on property income,
Maoriland’s Budget
Maoriland’s third £2OO-million
Budget in line holds the balance
amid a host of variables, and
performs the hat-trick by knock-
ing several millions off taxes for
another year without sacrifice in
total yield. The trick is easy
when incomes are on the up-
and-up, as they have been, on a
record scale, since the Holland
Government took over about
four years ago. After cutting
tax-rates to the tune of £2B|
million (including £6i million
this year), in the aggregate, Mr.
Holland is in the happy posi-
tion of being able to count on a
tax-haul £69 million higher than
the Socialists’ final figure of £l3O
million in 1949, which was
thought at the time to be the
limit of N.Z.’s capacity. This
gives some idea of how N.Z.
“money prosperity” has sky-
rocketed.
To Budget analysts, econo-
mists and businessmen, these
figures, interesting enough in
themselves, have less significance
than the percentage of taxation
to national income, which has
been dropping a few decimal-
points yearly but still stands at
30.9, against 31.1 p.c. in
1948-’49. On this high plateau
the average is 6 p.c. or so above
Colin Clark’s celebrated 25 p.c.
safety-limit, yet there’s no sign
so far that N.Z. has been ex-
periencing major harmful con-
sequences. The 25 p.c. limit
must be subject to adjustment
to meet the circumstances of
the “welfare State,” and no one
has yet attempted to calculate
where the danger-point is in a
case like N.Z.’s.
It is easy to see why N.Z. is
subject to different rules. A lot
of tax-money goes straight back
to the people in lavish State
benefits and subsidies. Social-
security payments to families,
the aged, the sick and war-
pensioners, along with extrava-
gant grants for “free” medicine,
add up to £62 million this year.
Besides this there’s a good deal
of other spending of a social
character. As for subsidies, it
seems extraordinary that the
world’s leading dairying coun-
try should be spending a size-
able part of its tax grant of £l4
million under this heading to
keep down prices of butter and
milk. Bread is the other most
costly item on the food-subsidy
list. .
Lumped together, benefits and
subsidies account for £76 mil-
lion, or 38 p.c., of the Budget
total, leaving all other items to
make up less than 20 p.c, of the
national income. When so much
tax-money goes out of one
pocket and into the other con-
sumer spending is bound to be
high, and this is the strength
and weakness of N.Z.’s economy
today. Strength because busi-
ness turnover is extraordinarily
high, and weakness because
saving and capital investment
are too low.
New Zealand will have to
tighten its hold on current spend-
ing to meet the demands of
national development and in-
dustrial expansion. This is where
the Budget squeeze is to be
looked for in the near future.
However, it is not visible yet.
At the moment Mr. Holland is
exhorting the people to save
more, while pursuing a Budget
policy which encourages them
to spend. He says: “There is
contest between all investment
schemes, large and small, public
and private, for the current flow
of savings.” Although he does
not admit that this situation
must force up interest-rates, the
writing is on the wall. The
Government has accepted a
modest loan of £2| million from
undisclosed Australian lenders
at 4i p.c., under an arrange-
ment to pay interest and prin-
cipal in N.Z., and the signific-
ance of this can’t be missed by
institutions and the well-to-do
who have funds on both sides of
the Tasman. With such a loop-
hole, N.Z.’s rate of £3 19s. per
cent, for two national loans
(£2O million and £lO million)
this year can’t be maintained
long.
Thermal Wonderland
If Maoriland can harness
Nature in a belt 150 miles long,
where its thermal wonderland
has been blowing off steam at
innumerable spots for cen-
turies, there should be enough
cheap power to take a permanent
rise out of costs in the next few
years.
At £2 to £3 a kilowatt, against
£35 for power from dams and
stations built on the Waikato,
M.L.’s biggest river, electricity
from underground steam would
be the next thing to a free gift.
Engineers have got far enough,
after three years of wrestling
with Nature, to promise Maori-
landers power at costs as low as
this.
Pressures around Wairakei, a
tourist show-place with a geyser
valley, run up to 2901 b. to the
square inch, which sets a new
world peak for geothermal
steam, and is uncontrollable ex-
cept by the strongest valves. It
wouldn’t take many bores blow-
ing off like this to equal the out-
put of some of the biggest
power-stations on the Waikato.
A few months ago this steam
came into the news as a possible
first-class source for “heavy
water,” worth £7O per pound.
For either use the steam could
be worth a fortune; if it is har-
nessed for both, N.Z.’s industrial
stocks should go skyhigh.


The only Trustee company having
offices each with its own Board of
Directors and management in three
Statet — Victoria, New South Wales
and Queensland.
Your Executor a 'legacy' of trouble?
One Executor, however able, cannot possibly acquire in
a lifetime the specialised knowledge of a group of experts
that is available permanently from the Union Trustee
Company.
Many people appoint the Union Trustee Company as
sole Executor of their Wills. You, too, can do so with
complete confidence. But should you wish to combine
the Company’s wide experience and extensive knowledge
with the services of a relative or friend, you can
appoint the Union Trustee as co-Executor with that
person.
Why not take advantage of Union Trustee's practical
experience in the administration of all types of
Estates? Service is comprehensive; charges are moderate.
Call, without obligation, for a confidential discussion with one of
the Company’s senior officers. Or, if you prefer, write or telephone
for a copy of the free booklet, “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
( Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
2 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
398-402 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
UTI4
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
, Dividends v
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Jne., Profit. 6 p.c. serves. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
'47 269,889 60,000 7.3 = 162,000 47,889 551,343
Contingencies res. disclosed, £140,000 691,343
Less new patents, £11,346 .. .. 679,997
’4B 283,763 60,000 7.3 = 162,000 61,763 741,760
Share premiums, £104,000 .. .. 845,760
’49 259,147 60,000 7.3 = 177,000 22,147 867,907
Premium on shares, £208,000 .. 1,075,907
'5O 360,861 60,000 7.3 = 232,000 68,861 1,144,768
Share premiums, £440,705 .. .. 1,585,473
'5l 668,978 60,000 11.2 = 519,500 89,478 1,674.951
To staff fund, £25,000 .. .. 1,649,951
Share premiums, £1,054,674 .. 2,704,625
’62 1,070,299 60,000 8.9 = 769,500 240,799 2.945,421
To staff funds. £25,000 .. .. 2,920.424
Issue exes, written off, £44,844 .. 2,876,580
Share premiums, £420,411 .. .. 3,295,991
’53 549,427 159,956 4.5 = 575,500 8,109,962
To staff funds, £lO,OOO .. .. 3,099,962
The change in the economic climate
dealt this big and expanding industrial
organisation, which supplies most of
Australia’s paper-board and kraft require-
ments, a severe blow last term. There
was a sharp contraction of £520,872
(48.6 p.c.) in net earnings, and the div.
was cut in half, reducing it to 4.5 p.c.,
which, together with pref, requirements,
called for £186,029 more than the profit
claimed.
Was it all due to temporary and for-
tuitous circumstances, or to fundamental
causes likely to press upon profits for
years to come? Indications are that it
was mainly the result of special and
temporary factors. The position im-
proved considerably toward and since
the close of accounts ; and the board says
the long-term outlook is encouraging, but
that circumstances make it necessary to
proceed more slowly than was planned
with the final stages of the big programme
of development.
Here is the picture as the directors, in
their annual report, paint it:
The seller’s market which existed
throughout 1950-51 and for the first nine
months of 1951-52, coupled with A.P.M.’s
inability to meet customers’ demands in
full, led to an upsurge of imports. Most
of these were for stockpiling, and the
recession in business found some customers
heavily overstocked. The consequent fall
in our sales reduced the volume of the
year’s trading to a level lower than in
any of the past 13 years. For the first
time in that period the co. found sales
limited not by its ability to produce, but
by its ability to sell, frequently against
imported goods priced substantially lower
than its own. Price-reductions were made
n Oct., 1952, and further reductions have
been made since the end of the financial
year, For a number of years most of
A.P.M.’s prices have been below overseas
prices. The position is now reversed, and
the tariff is insufficient to afford reasonable
protection The co. has asked for new
duties on an ad valorem basis with mini-
mum amounts per ton.
The co.’s five mills —Maryvale, Mel-
bourne, Fairfield and Broadford (Vic.)
and Botany (N.S.W.) —are fed partly
from its own pulping plant and partly
from imported pulp, and are largely
powered with their own generating
equipment, while most of the fuel for
the boilers comes from a jointly-owned
brown-coal deposit at Bacchus Marsh
(Vic.). A subsidiary, A.P.M. Forests Pty.,
which owns large stands of pine and
eucalypt in Victoria and N. S. Wales,
looks after the supply of pulp-wood.
Nothing is said in the latest report about
the new 20,000-ton board-mill at Petrie,
near Brisbane, erection of which was well
advanced a year ago. A new machine to
turn out up to 20,000 tons p.a. of glazed
carton-boards was installed at Fairfield
last term.
Production, which had stepped up as
new plant came into operation, declined
steeply last term, as the following table
shows:
1950. 1951. 1952. 1953.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Wood pulp .. 40,089 43,283 47,535 36,307
Paper & board 133,126 148,194 160,037 102,317
The sale of products dropped by 58,519
tons to 96,143 tons, and there was a slip
of £6.3 million in the money-value of
turnover (£12.4 million).
After allowing £598,844 (up £63,830) for
depreciation, £256,500 (down £724,700)
for taxation, and taking stocks into
account at the lower of cost or valuation,
the board figured the net result at
£549,427, which covered the pref. div.
and 2.8 p.c. on ord. capital as it stood at
the close of accounts, compared with
11.7, 13.1, 9.4, 8.2 and 10.1 p.c. back to
1948. The tax provision was the esti-
mated net amount payable after deduct-
ing deferred tax (£128,500) applicable to
the year’s profit, and was calculated at
the old rates.
During the year 1,793,741 new £1 6
p.c. prefs. were issued at par, those on
the pref. register received a gift-issue
of 50,000 f.-p. prefs., and £1,881,642 of
ord. capital, which brought with it
£420,411 of share premiums, was gathered
—it was the final instalment of the 1952
new ord. share-issue. Paid capital thus
became £16,481,540 in 2,843,741 prefs.
and 13,683,212 ords.; there was £413 still
to come when the books were ruled off.
The new share and share-premium
money, together with reductions of
£1,206,959 in stocks and £583,734 in
book-debts, enabled £2,739,190 net to be
added to the book-value of freeholds and
plant as well as £1,668,736 to be slashed
off the overdraft and £1,575,938 off the
amount coming to other creditors:
Paid capital— 1951. 1952. 1953.
Pref. .. £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £2,843,328
Ord. .. 5,792,584 11,756,570 13,638,212
Debentures .. 3,250,000 8,250,000 3,250,000
Mortgages .. 374,858 576,305 654,389
Overdrafts . . 784,161 4,632,691 2,963,955
Other cr’tors 2,559,239 2,441,064 865,110
Tax reserve . . 1,129,955 1,408,669 1,665,169
Staff funds .. 25,000 50,000 60,000
Pinal divs. .. 378,000 492,500 641,534
Freehold and
plant .. 9,885,302 17,014,671 19.753.861
Shares other
cos. .. 524,871 1.144,079 1,249,079
Stock .. 3,205,111 6,420,066 5.218.107
Book debts .. 2,789,719 3,922.269 3,338,535
Cash, etc. .. 533,744 27,127 27,082
Excluding debentures, mortgages and
shareholdings, current assets exceeded
current liabilities by £2,382,950 (up
£1,038,402) when the books closed.
As for the current term, the rate of
co. tax has been reduced, costs promise
to be steadier, stocks of paper-board and
kraft held in Australia a year ago have
been substantially reduced, the co.’s sales
“compare well” with those of 12 months
ago, and forward orders “indicate that
the recovery should continue.” Much
will depend upon the extent to which the
£19,7 million (up £16.8 million over the
last five years) represented by freeholds
and plant can be kept employed in the
face of overseas competition, etc.
The holding co., A.P.P. (issued capital
£13,912,318 in 437,506 8 p.c. participat-
ing prefs. and 13,474,812 ords.), which
owns all the ords. in A.P.M., paid 4 p.c.
last term as against an average of 6.2
p.c. for the nine preceding years. The
proposal to eliminate A.P.P. by distribut-
ing A.P.M.’s ords. among those on
A.PJP.’s share-register has been held up
by legal and other difficulties, which the
board hopes to resolve during the current
term.
The price of A.P.P.’s ords., which
eased from 225. a year ago to 17s, 9d. in
April last, stood at 19s. 3d. last week,
giving a return of 4.1 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div.
basis, or 6.2 p.c. on a 6 p.c, distribution.
The 8 p.c. prefs. at 28s. yield 5.7 p.c.
A.P.M.’s 6 p.c. prefs. at 21s. Bd. yield
5.5 p.c.
Stirling Henry, Ltd. (Syd.)
f Dividends \ Re-
June 30, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1944 .. 15,105 8 10 12,000 48,866
1945 .. 16,335 8 10 12,000 53,201
1946 .. 15,929 8 15.2 17,162 51,968
1947 . . 23,210 8 12* 20,750 54,428
Share premiums, £37,500 .. .. 91,928
1948 .. 27,310 8 12* 23,563 95,675
1949 .. 23,878 8 10 20,750 98,803
1950 . . 34,702 8 10 25,438 108.067
Share-issue exes., £1562 .. .. 106,505
Revaluation freeholds, £150,000 .. 256,505
1951 .. 91,223 8 12* 47,703 300,025
Share-issue expenses, £2344 .. 297,681
1952 .. 59.072 8 10 44,188 312,564
To plant reserve, £15,000 .. .. 327,664
1953 .. 60,288 8 10 44,188 343,664
From efficient plant at Flemington,
near Sydney, this 29-year-old tums-out
ladies’ and men’s underwear and sports
and industrial clothing from cotton-yarns
and materials, mostly produced on the
spot, too. There is a branch garment-
sewing factory at Brisbane, set-up in 1948,
and a small subsidiary (paid capital
£11,714) which operates a knitting mill at
Auckland (N.Z.). For the 17 years to the
close of last accounts, during most of
which the co. operated in sheltered war
and expanding post-war markets, the
ords. have had divs. averaging 11.3 p.c.,
reserves climbed from £11,492 to
£343,664, and paid capital, steady at
£125,000 until 1946, stood at £446,865,
of which £25,000 carries a fixed cumula-
tive 8 p.c., at June 30, 1953.
Following substantial plant additions
and “forceful sales-penetration,” turn-
over shot up by 68 p.c., reaching
£1,680,000 in 1951, net earnings responded
and a 2-|- p.c, bonus was added to the
.10 p.c. div. Then came a spate of
imports, tightening of credit, wilting of
retail orders, easing of prices and sharply-
rising costs. The blows were cushioned
by import-restrictions and Government
orders on defence account, which
reduced the shrinkage in the co.’s 1952
turnover to 16 p.c. There was a much
sharper fall in net profit; but the figure
was comfortably in excess of the amount
called for by the pref. div. and 10 p.c. to
the ords.
Last term the position improved
steadily as the year advanced; swollen
trade - inventories were reduced, the
national income increased with the rise
in the price of wool, payrolls, which were
never seriously shortened, lengthened
again, and there was a strong revival of
buying on retail account during the last
half of the period. So, despite the taper-
ing of Government orders, the co,
finished up the year with turnover 17 p.c.
above the 1952 figure.
After allowing £22,242 (up £5548) for
depreciation, £47,000 (down £3000) for
taxation, and setting aside £15,000 for
plant-development, the board put net
earnings at £60,288 (up £1216), And the
figure was better than claimed, because
the tax-provision was over £lO,OOO in
excess of actual requirements under the
reduced rates announced in the Budget.
The £60,288 covered the pref. div.
(£2000) and 13.8 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 13.5, 24.4, 13.9, /11.6 and
14.6 p.c. back to 1948. So repetition of
the 10 p.c. div. was a more comfortable
matter than it looked.
The financial structure was brought
into better balance by reductions of
£287,452 in stocks (in at the lower of cost
or market-price), of £91,531 in book-
debts and of £372,074 in the overdraft:
Paid capital— 1950. 1951. 1952. 1953.
Ordinary .. £281,250 £421,875 £421,875 £421,875
Preference 25,000 25,000 25,000 25,000
Overdraft .. 218,063 109,859 626,599 254,525
Creditors, etc.* 232,472 427,717 288,907 270,093
Pinal div. .. 14,063 31,640 42,188 21,094
Freehold .. 163.840 321,534 325,905 329,117
Plant, etc. .. 140,773 143,374 160,644 154,471
Shares subside. 12,839 12,839 12,839 12,839
Stocks . . 431,868 601,755 926,481 639,029
Debtors .. 126,201 224,481 285,946 194,415
Cash. etc. .. 1,832 3,789 5,318 6,380
* Includes provision for taxation.
The year’s improvement in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£294,112) was
£34,061.
Following the managing - director’s
recent investigation of overseas develop-
ments in the industry, new plant is to be
installed and improved methods of pack-
ing and distribution introduced. Even
so it is doubtful whether the co. can stand
up to overseas competition without
adequate tariff-protection. The Budget
and other developments, including the
Arbitration Court’s action to stabilise the
basic wage, favor a better showing at
next balance.
At Bs. (6s. 6d. a year ago) the co.’s f.-p.
ss. stock units, covered by 9s. in net
tangibles, return 6.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The well-protected prefs. seldom
appear on ’Change,
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividend* N
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves.servea.*
£ £ £ £ £
1946.. 70,717 10,500 8 p.c.= 25,928 84,294 120,620
To staff pension fund, £6OOO .. .. 114,620
To inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. .. 104,620
1947.. 79,677 10,500 8 p.c.= 25,923 43,254 147,874
To staff pension fund, £6OOO .. .. 141,874
Prom tax reserves, £15,000 .. .. 156,874
1948.. 84,061 10,500 9 p.c.= 29,164 1 188,271
Written off fixtures, £lO,OOO .. 126,397 188,271
To staff fund, £BOOO .. .. J
From inner reserves, £30,000 .. ~ 218,271
1949.. 75,928 10,500 9 p.c.=29,164 \,,
To staff fund, £5OOO .. V 31,264 244,535
1950.. 71.922 10,500 9 p.c.=30,964 ) 9 , . KS „ fiQ QQ ,
To staff fund. £5OOO .. .. f 25 ’ 458 269 - 993
1951.. 80,677 10,500 11*p.c.=39,565 1
To staff fund. £5OOO .. .. | 25 ’ 612 295 ’ 60 °
1952.. 68,507 10,500 9 p.c. =80,964 27,043 822,648
1953.. 71,391 10,500 9 „ „ 30,964 29.927 352,575
* After deducting book-vaiue of goodwill (£60,741).
This more-than-century-old Melbourne
retailer, whose store is alongside Myer’s
in Bourke-street, in the heart of the shop-
ping area, has put up a heartening per-
formance over the last two difficult trad-
ing years. The worst of the troubles to
which the balance-of-payments crisis
gave rise occurred during the last half
of the 1952 term. In the p. and 1. account
they expressed themselves in a contrac-
tion of £12,170 in that year’s net earn-
ings ; a moderate shrinkage considering
the squeeze in profit-margins which fol-
lowed the tightening of credit, scramble
for liquidity and sharpening of competi-
tion.
It is now clear that the co.’s stocks
were not overweighted with capricious
fashion goods—which were chief cause of
the co.’s troubles in the 1930’s —nor was
it heavily involved in forward overseas
commitments. The emphasis in post-war
merchandising policy has been upon
medium-priced though competitive lines,
and a system of careful budgeting has
made for better buying and the stopping-
up of superfluous outlets. Together with
a flexible financial structure, all these
things ensured a good getaway to the
more competitive trading conditions
which ushered in the 12 months covered
by the latest accounts.
For the first half of the term sales in
the retail trade were sluggish, with a
downward trend. Then the beneficial
effects of import-restrictions and a rise
in the national income, thanks to the
strengthening of wool prices, began to
make themselves felt, and the co.
finished up with turnover in excess of
the previous year’s. But margins were
narrower and costs higher. Still, after
allowing £10,068 (up £735) for deprecia-
tion and £70,000 (up £5000) for taxa-
tion, the net result was £2884 stronger at
£71,391. For the improvement share-
holders can thank the Federal Govern-
ment for abolition of land tax, which
cost the co. £21,519 for the 1952 term.
The £71,391 of profit covered the pref.
div. and 17.7 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 16.8, 20.4, 17.8, 20.1, 22.7 and
21.3 p.c. back to 1947; and the figure
was better than claimed, because income
tax was allowed for at the old rates. So the
9 p.c. div. remained a comfortable matter
for the sixth year in succession—it was
sweetened with a 2\ p.c. centenary bonus
in 1951 —and the £29,927 that remained
raised the net tangible support for capital
to £352,575.
With an eye to the comfort and con-
venience of customers, departments of
the store are being refitted and escalators


DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Rapid Magnetic Machines Ltd.
ENGLAND
*s£ ■ * ' I
Manufacturers of: —
Rapid Magnetic Separators for feebly Magnetic Ores,
Magnetic Drum Type Overband and Chute Separators,
also Heavy-duty Lifting Magnets and Transmission
Equipment, etc.
Send for Bulletins
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
We manufacture the “Curvilinear” Ore
Concentrating Table, etc.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1953.
LIABILITIES. £
Central Banking Business—
Capital .. .. . • .. 4,000,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 3,351,247
General Banking Division—
Capital .. .. .. •. 4,572,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 1,584,579
Rural Credits Department—
Capital ~ .. .. .. 2,280,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 735,439
Mortgage Bank Department—
Capital .. .. .. .. 4,571,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 319,173
Industrial Finance Department—
Capital .. .. .. .. 4,571,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 1,371,319
27,361,757
Special Reserve—Premium on gold sold 4,754,954
Notes on issue .. .. .. .. 326,613,190
Deposits—
Special accounts of trading banks .. 299,630,000
Other deposits of trading banks .. 46,563,140
Other deposits, bills payable and
other liabilities (including provision
for contingencies) .. .. 494,855,898
Total .. .. 1,199,778,939
ASSETS. £
Gold and balances held abroad (in-
cluding money at short call) .. 488,225,383
Australian notes and coin .. .. 8,440,229
Cheques and bills of other banks .. 20,631,278
Commonwealth Government securities
(including Commonwealth Treasury
Bills) 462,696,008
Securities of other Governments, and of
local and semi-governmental authori-
ties 32,167,706
Bills receivable and remittances in
transit .. .. .. .. 28,409,398
Bank premises, at cost less amounts
written off .. .. .. .. 2,845,622
Loans, advances, etc. (after deducting
provision for debts considered bad
or doubtful) —
Central Bank .. .. .. 10,008,949
General Banking Division .. 61,901,551
Rural Credits Department .. 55,145,684
Mortgage Bank Department .. 4,288,643
Industrial Finance Department .. 21,425,422
Other assets .. .. ~ .. 3,693,066
Total
. 1,199,778,939
Note.—lnter-departmental accounts totalling £100,875,698 have been offset.
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1953. Cr.
Central Banking Business—
To National Debt Sinking Fund ~
To Commonwealth Bank Reserve
Fund
To General Banking Division Capital
Account
To Rural Credits Department Capital
Account
To Mortgage Bank Department
Capital Account ..
To Industrial Finance Department
Capital Account ..
Note Issue Department—
To General Banking Division Capital
Account
To Rural Credits Department Capital
Account
To Mortgage Bank Department
Capital Account ..
To Industrial Finance Department
Capital Account
To Commonwealth Treasury
General Banking Division—
To National Debt Sinking Fund
To General Banking Division Reserve
Fund
Rural Credits Department—
To Rural Credits Department
Reserve Fund
To Rural Credits Development Fund
Mortgage Bank Department—
To Mortgage Bank Department
Reserve Fund
Industrial Finance Department—
To Industrial Finance Department
Reserve Fund
£
1,446,171
046,171
143.000
71.500
143.000
142,600
143.000
71.500
143.000
142,500
4,860,481
228,718
228,710
70,024
79,924-
51,457
201,051
Total .. .. 9,213,516
£
By Profits (after provision for contin-
gencies)—
Central Banking Business .. 2,892,842
Note Issue Department .. .. 5,360,481
General Banking Division .. 457,437
Rural Credits Department .. 159,848
Mortgage Bank Department .. 51,457
Industrial Finance Department ... 291,951
Total .. 9,213,516
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the
Bank, is true and correct.
(Sgd.) E. S. EYERS, Secretary. (Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
(Sgd.) W. P. ESKDALE, Chief Accountant. Sydney, 24th August, 1953.
Commonwealth Savings Bank off Australia
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th June, 1953.
LIABILITIES.
Reserve Fund
Depositors’ balances and accrued
interest
Other liabilities (including provision for
contingencies) .. ...
£
7,675,375
609,092,332
16,784,898
TflTAn ... ... 633,502,605
ASSETS.
Australian notes and coin
Cash balances and money at short call
Commonwealth Government securities
(including Commonwealth Treasury
Bills)
Securities of other Governments and of
local and semi-governmental authori-
ties
Bank premises, at cost less amounts
written off
Other assets
• Total
£
731,430
61,707,028
436,812,257
58,744,890
3,014,392
72,432,602
633,502,605
PROFIT AND LOSS FOR YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1953. Cr.
£
To National Debt Sinking Fund «, 452,535
To Savings Bank Reserve Fund 462,535
Total
905,070
£
By Profits for year ended 30th June,
1953 (after provision for payments
amounting to £620,405 due to State
Authorities under Savings Bank
Amalgamation Agreements and after
provision for contingencies)
Total
905.070
905.070
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, compiled from Statements furnished by the several Offices of the
Bank, is true and i
(Sgd.) E. S. EYERS, Secretary.
(Sgd.) W. P. ESKDALE, Chief Accountant.
(Sgd.) H. C. COOMBS, Governor.
Sydney, 24th August, 1953.
Certificates as to the correctness of these Accounts have been given by the Auditor-General for tho
Commonwealth (Mr. J. Brophy).
installed. To finance the work
an extra £150,000 was raised on
mortgage, on “very favorable
terms,” just before the books
closed:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Ord. capital .. 344,041 344,041 344,041
Pref. capital .. 150,000 150,000 150,000
Mortgage .. 35,000 35,000 185,000
Sundry
creditors, etc. 818,273 211,706 194,922
Staff fund . . 68,997 65,202 66,635
Tax provision .. 97,771 66,579 85.288
Final div. .. 30,964 22,363 22,363
Freehold, etc. .. 563,277 562,977 562,677
Plant, etc. .. 51,177 55,300 77,238
Stock .. .. 524,452 627,424 467,816
Book debts, etc. 66,785 70,728 79.469
Cash, etc. . . 129,961 1,110 213,624
The year’s net addition to plant,
etc., was £21,938. Stocks (in at
cost or under) were reduced by
£59,608, and £16,784 was snipped
off the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc. Cash, etc.,
increased by £212,514, the
mortgage money being unspent
when the books were ruled off.
Prospects of a better showing
at next balance are encouraging.
Another good season is in
prospect, with no sharp recession
in prices imminent, and the
Government’s liberal tax-
reductions and the Royal visit
augur well for spending, while
wage and other costs should
become more stable.
At 10s. 6d. (7s. 3d. a year ago)
the co.’s f.-p. ss, ords. give an
immediate return of 4.3 p.c. on a
9 p.c. div. basis, with prospects.
The £1 7 p.c. prefs. at 245. yield
5.8 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£5 12s. lid. prefs. and 10s. Id.
ords,
Lennons Hotel, Ltd. (Bris.)
Dividends—To Re- De-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, ficit.f
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
’4B* . 20,819 5 7J 15,144 5,675 3,387
Deferred repairs, £lOBB .. 4,425
’49 .. 38,783 5 8 26,299 12,484 8,059
Less deferred repairs, £97 .. 7,962
Assets written up, £11,277 19,239
’5O .. 44,896 5 10 31,000 13,896 33,135
’5l .. 50,751 5 10 31,000 19,751 52,886
Tax underprovided, £iB4s 51,041
’52 .. 42,905 5 10 31,000' 11,905 62,946
’53 .. 40,366 5 10 31,000 9,366 72,312
* Seven months, f After deducting good-
will, etc., now £lOl.
This is Brisbane’s leading hotel
and one of the most up-to-date
in the Commonwealth. For the
last four years it has been a
steady 10 p.c. proposition, and
there is nothing at the moment
to suggest that the 10 p.c. is
likely to be interfered with.
The present co. bought the
undertaking from City Mutual
Life about 4} years ago for
£360,000 —£296,700 freehold and
building, £63,200 plant and £lOl
goodwill. To finance the deal
and provide working capital, the
co. issued 150,000 £l5 p.c. prefs.
and 235,000 £1 ords. Excepting
a small parcel of the ords., the
scrip was all taken by the
vendor, who sold to the public
30.000 of the prefs. at par and
220.000 of the ords. at 245. each.
From the start the business has
more than lived up to prospectus
estimates, thanks to a run of
boom years and good manage-
ment. And, because demand for
first-class hotel accommodation
and service exceeds the co.’s
capacity, the board bought
Salisbury Chambers, an adjoin-
ing property at the corner of
George- and Ann-street, for
£64,000-odd in 1950. The inten-
tion is to erect thereon a new
building, similar to the hotel,
when the time is considered ripe.
Meanwhile, the chambers have
been let at rentals which show
a small loss, £322 for the year
to June 30, 1953.
Last term opened with an
unpromising outlook, but con-
ditions improved as the year
advanced, and overall the volume
of trade in the bar, lounge,
catering and guest-occupancy
sections held well, hut wage,
food and other costs increased.
After setting aside £6262 (up
£903) for depreciation and
£33,300 (down £2000) for taxa-
tion, the net result was £2539
lighter at £40,366, which was a
satisfactory 8.8 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined), or enough
to pay the pref. div, (£7500) and
show 13.9 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 15, 18.4, 15.9 and
13.2 p.c. back to 1949.
There is nothing to worry
about in the finances:
1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital— £ £ £
Preference .. 150.000 150,000 150,000
Ordinary .. 235,000 235,000 235,000
Overdraft .. 29,950
Creditors .. 29,916 30,565 30,220
Tax provision .. 33,608 31,755 33,378
Final divs. .. 17,850 17,850 17,850
Freehold, etc. .. 381,430 381,430 381,815
Plant, etc. .. 80,702 84,762 93,262
Stock .. .. 17,237 52,778 24,887
Debtors .. 8,294 11,532 9,403 '
Cash and bonds 31,596 27,563 29,332
Principal movements last term
were a reduction of £27,891 in
stocks and elimination of the
overdraft (£29,950 at the
previous balance). Installation
of additional air-conditioning
equipment sent plant up by
£B5OO net. The board still
awaits Government approval to
go ahead with erection of new
bedrooms on the flat roof of the
hotel.
The current term has opened
well for the hotel trade. Another
good season is in prospect, wool,
sugar and beef prices are at high
levels, the Royal visit and the
Budget can be expected to stimu-
late spending, wage-rates are
now to remain stable over a
longer period and, on the basis
of last term’s figures, the recent
reduction in co. taxation means
a saving of about £6OOO in the
co.’s tax bill.
The f.-p. £1 ords., which
dropped to 28s, in the market
during 1952, recently fetched
305,, giving a return of 6.7 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
prefs. at 18s. yield 5.5 p.c. Net
tangible cover is 60s. lid. prefs.
and 265. Id. ords,
Western Mining Corp.
This big Melbourne-controlled
holding and prospecting concern
(paid capital £698,588 in f.-p.
10s. stock-units) netted £189,255
(up £115,349) for the year to
March 31 last, and paid divs.
totalling Is. a share (£139,718)
as against 6d. a share in the
previous term. Another 6d. a
share was sent out on Aug. 21
last, and prospects are encourag-
ing. The market prices the scrip
at 16s. 3d. as against 12s. a year
ago.
The improvement in net earn-
ings was due to a bigger div.
(£164,063, up £131,251) received
from Central Norseman Gold
Corp. The other contributor to
the pool, Gold Mines of Kal-
goorlie, sent along £28,889, same
as in the previous year. None
of the other three producing
members of the group—New
Coolgardie, Great Western Con-
solidated and Central Victoria
Dredging—has yet paid a div.
When the books closed
W.M.C.’s shareholding stood at
£1,468,730, freeholds, etc., at
£41,453 and properties under
investigation at £32,148. Current
assets totalled £416,775, of
Which £8750 was stores, and
current liabilities amounted to
£243,907.
Here are operating results of
the five producing cos.:—
Central Norseman (so p.c.).*
ore Gold - Grade >
o F u„”. P
1952 •• 1*9.088 49.091 6.59
1955 0. m- or ’p 1 ,..)/ 74
1952 •• 170.770 47.018 5.51
1953 •• n 173.789 49,472 5.66
T OM SSS
1953 •• 65.029 34.966 10.75
Wb ® tern C^ MLIDATBD _ (14 p - c ->i
1953 .. 119,187 14,128 2.37
central Victoria
c y oz / c .y."
J 932 ; • jH’m’slo n’22o I'll
* Proportion of share capital held 'by
w.m.o.
W.M.C. also acts as general-
mana B er and consultant to the
abovementioned concerns. In
addition it has a 44 p.c.
interest in Victoria Gold
Dredging, which holds 125,000
f.-p. shares in Central Victoria
Dredging, and is presently to go
into voluntary liquidation.
Central Norseman, which is
beginning to reap the benefits of
recent heavy expenditure on
development and shaft-sinking,
netted £614,745 (up £406,758)
for the year to March 31 last
or 94.6 p.c. on capital, and paid
divs. totalling 50 p.c. (£325,000)
as against 10 p.c for the
previous year. Another Is. 6d.
P 6l " share ( 15 P- c -) has g° ne
° ut s ; nce tha cl °“ of accounts,
Developments at depth, still m
progress, are w encouraging
G.M. of Kalgoorhe netted
£164,319 (up £52,289), or 23.4
p.c. on capital, and paid Is. 3d.
a share (12.5 p.c.), same as for
previous term. During the year
2990 ft. of driving and other de-
velopment was in ore averag-
ing 9.2dwt. over a width of 64in.
The co - recend y bought the ad-
joining Paringa leases, which
can be worked much more eco-
nominally by G.M, of K., and
substantial additions to pay-ore
reserves are expected.
New Coolgardie, which got
Into production in March, 1949,
is opening up nicely. Last term
it netted £140,580 (up £82,094),
or 27.4 p.c. on capital, and sent
out a maiden 6d. per share
(£21,300), or 5 p.c., on July 14
last. The co. recently pegged a
number of new goldmining
leases, yet to be tested.
Great Western Consolidated,
biggest of the group, is
expected to enter the dividend-
list later on. It only got its
30,000-ton-a-month mill going
in November last. For the five
months to March 31, 1953,
operations resulted in a loss of
£ll,BOO. There is some 2,000,000
tons ore averaging s.sdwt. gold,
ahead of the mill,
Central Victoria Dredging
netted £44,200 (down £3921)! ol
11.3 p.c. on capital, but has not
yet paid a div. The profit came
from the Jim Crow leases. The
Amphitheatre dredge, which
ceased work for some months
for installation of bucket-
cleaning equipment, operated at
a small loss. It has recently got
into better ground. Recoveries
of both dredges have lived up to
prospectus estimates. High costs
are the trouble.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The younger sets of the Royal Empire
Society, the Victoria League and the
Overseas League combined last week
for the Red, White and Blue Ball at
Prince’s, where about 350 of Sydney’s
young and beautiful gathered. John
Halls, chairman of the R.E.S. younger
set, was with Rosalind Barnard, who
wore a white dress with a fine satin
stripe and an apple-green sash. Mr. and
Mrs. Bill Andrew represented the Over-
seas League, and among those from the
Victoria League were Grace Campbell-
Jones in a lovely rainbow-checked
organza dress, Natalie Jordan and Joyce
Skyring. Noted among the many beauti-
ful dresses worn were Pat Bennett’s
primrose georgette with its white guipure
bodice, Diana Ryan’s pink brocade and
handmade flowers sewn with tiny pearls,
and the graceful fuchsia-red organza
worn by Anne Devenish-Meares.
* ☆ ☆
On Nicaragua’s National Day (Sep-
tember 15) Mr. and Mrs. Cliff Paray
entertained 300 of Sydney’s leading citi-
zens, consular and diplomatic people to
cocktails at their enviable Point Piper
home. Admired among the accessories
worn was the diamond sunburst that
decorated Mrs. Paray’s black dress, the
black skullcap with its fine white
feathers worn by Lady McKell, Mrs. K.
Chaldjean’s hat like a full-blown pink
rose, Madame Regala’s magnificent
mutation mink stole, Mrs. F. Louat’s
delicate pearl brooch and the Venetian
sweater in pale blue with three harle-
quins dancing across the yoke worn by
schoolgirl Zoe Redler, who came with
her mother, Mrs. D. Redler. Among the
guests were Mrs. Elenor Hempton, that
ex-New Zealander who has done so much
good work welcoming New Zealand boys
returning from Korea, and Mrs. L. W.
Johnson, of Chicago, who will be
remembered as Pat Crick, and who is
visiting her parents in Point Piper.
☆ ☆ ☆
The photograph exhibition at the
Freeman Studios in George-street is a
rewarding place to go. There are on
show 400 photographs taken by the
studio between 1855 and 1880, and many
of Australia’s early-established families
are represented there. The little boys
are mostly photographed holding whips
(which they apparently carried just as the
boys today carry guns); the little girls’
fashions are charming. There is one of
a “Miss Chauvel,” aged about six and
wearing a starched, flounced dress with
an off-shoulder neckline, tiny sleeves
with tartan bows and a wide tartan
sash.
There is a really surrealist photograph
of “Messrs. Arnold and Taylor” on a
rustic bridge in their long underpants,
and a photographed cartoon of Brigham
Young’s 12 wives side by side in bed
mourning his death. The studios intend
to give the photographs to the Mitchell
Library after the exhibition, but because
their records were destroyed by fire some
time ago they cannot identify all. the nega-
tives. They would like help in doing this.
The exhibition will remain open until
next Saturday.
☆ ☆ *
Perhaps explaining why France doesn’t
lead the world in swimsuit design as it
does in other fashions is the model
French swimsuit on display in David
Jones’s window. It has a black velvet
skirt and its bodice of black organza
over flesh color is decorated with gar-
lands of diamente. Notes about swim-
suits are that the two-piece seems to be
out and that the color combination black
and white leads the field.
☆ ☆ ☆
Miss M. L Lambie, C.8.E., came from
New Zealand to speak at the first
annual oration of the N.S.W. College
of Nursing, which was held in the Great
Hall of the University during the week.
The Chief Justice, the Hon. K. W. Street,
who presided, said that this was the
first oration to be given in the Great
Hall by a woman. Miss Lambie, who
spoke on the “Changing Scene in Health
Work Throughout the World,” said that
now more emphasis was being placed on
education of the community, the pre-
vention of disease as much as its cure ;
and on nursing in the home, from which
the pendulum had swung too far.
It was interesting to hear from her
that many nurses in U.S.A. are trained
in the universities, following this with
practical work in the hospital. Twelve
Sisters were invested as Fellows of the
N.S.W. College during the evening,
thereby joining the ranks of those en-
titled to wear that imposing long red
cloak with its heraldic badge which is
being seen now at official functions in
Sydney.
A new book by Pixie O'Harris (Mrs.
Bruce Pratt) is to be published shortly
by Dy mocks: “The Pixie O’Harris Gift
Book,” which is a collection of fairy-
tales and verses. Mrs. Pratt has written
10 books for children and illustrated
many others. She says she was born
with the idea of storytelling in words
and pictures for little ones, and never
thought of doing anything else. Her
father, the late George F. Harris,
was a portrait-painter and chairman of
the Royal Academy Society in Wales,
of which Pixie herself was the youngest
member at 14. Her mother had nine
children before she realised her ambition
to live in Australia (she used to call the
children to meals with a cowbell to keep
the idea warm). Pixie O’Harris is known
not only as a writer and illustrator but
also as a painter of murals for children’s
wards in hospitals, a work in which she
says her brother George, also a painter,
has been of great help to her. Photo,
by Hugh Spencer.
As usual, the flower decorations at the
Lady Mayoress’s Ball were notable, this
year featuring wistaria cascading among
masses of blossom, hydrangeas and arum-
lilies. The Governor, who was accom-
panied by Miss Northcott, received the
debs presented by Mrs. J. Irwin Moore.
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. P. D. Hills,
looked most attractive in a bouffant dress
of electric-blue net trimmed with sequins
in the same shade. Mrs. C. M. Guiney,
who was secretary of the ball, wore a
dress of shaded grey georgette over pea-
cock silk. Air-Marshal J. P. J. Mc-
Cauley and Mrs. McCauley, who leave
in January for Melbourne, were
present. Their daughter Anne, who
was with Gordon Stewart, was in
navy organza sprinkled with white
guipure-lace. Mrs. Tom Bateman wore
a glamorous dress of black beaded all
over in black, silver and emerald. Mr.
and Mrs. R. J. F. Boyer entertained their
daughter, Mrs. J. E. Ilbery, and her hus-
band, Dr. Ilbery, in their party, which
also included Squadron-Leader Brecken-
ridge and Mrs. Breckenridge.
☆ ☆ ☆
The lazy man’s excuse last week. “Aw,
I don’t have to wash the car. People will
only think I’ve been in the Redex trial.”
☆ ☆ ☆
As surely as anyone organises a
“spring” function, Sydney weather will
stage a one-day cold spell to make a
mockery of the name. The Food for
Babies’ Spring Garden Party and
musicale had this luck on Friday, but
still made it a happy gathering by seating
the 200 guests in the reception-rooms of
Mrs. C. T. Lorenz’s Edgecliff home,
where Alan Coad, Pauline Garrick, Panni
Hernfeld and Letty Keyes provided a
lighthearted programme. At afternoon-
tea in the courtyard a display of spring
hats by Stella Fraenkel was shown. Mrs.
Ken Pointing, Mrs. Neville Lynch and
Mrs. Sylvia Krahe were among those
who arranged this pleasant party for a
very good cause.
☆ ☆
New and rather queer line in the
fashions is the “coming-and-going” look,
with necklines cut high in the front and
low at the back, where little vests and
buckles confuse the issue further. Trouble
with it is that people don’t know whether
the wearer is right up to the minute in
fashion or has just put on her dress
back-to-front for luck,
MEEDCDDNE
Canberra, clad in its spring clothes,
is now enchanting, A great deal of this
beauty was brought indoors, where at
the Hotel Canberra huge bowls of blos-
som, daffodils and hyacinths were set in
the lounges and dining-room.
Vera Bradford, the well-known pianist,
accompanied by Mrs. Margaret Saker,
was there to give a recital at the Albert
Hall. They were both entertained at
luncheon by the High Commissioner for
India, General Cariappa, and his niece,
Sagere Chengappa. Other Melbourne
guests were Mr. and Mrs. Gordon Moffatt
and their daughter Tonia. The Ambas-
sador for the Republic of China, Dr.
T. C. Chen, and Madame Chen gave a
dinner-party at their residence for Vera.
Madame Chen wore a national costume
of oyster satin-brocade, Vera a ballerina
frock of black Chantilly lace with a
platina fox stole. Guests included Mr.
and Mrs. J. Brophy, in white crystal-
embroidered stole over a black gown ;
Mr. and Mrs. Hal Myers, she wearing
white organdie Swiss-embroidered blouse
and black skirt; and Mrs. Margaret
Saker, whose black crepe dinner-gown
featured a rhinestone-studded bodice.
At the recital given by Vera Bradford
were the High Commissioner for Canada,
W. Arthur Irwin, and his wife; the
Chinese Ambassador and Mrs. Chen;
Heather Menzies, who earlier in the day
had entertained the pianist at luncheon
at the Prime Minister’s Lodge, and who
was with her guest Marion McPherson ;
Mr. and Mrs. Pickard (he is the first-
secretary to the High Commissioner for
the U.K.); Mrs. Alan Tregear, the J.
Brophys; Miss Sagere Chengappa and
Mrs. Hal Myers.
* * *
The newly-elected president of the
Senate, Senator A. McMullin, gave a
delightful afternoon-party in his private
suite in Parliament House, his guests
being the wives of both Government and
Opposition Senators. Wearing a smart
beech-brown tweed suit with a cloche of
winter-white melusine, Mrs. McMullin
assisted her husband receive the guests,
who included Senators Ivy Wedgwood,
Agnes Robertson, Annabelle Rankin and
Dorothy Tangney, Mrs. George McLeay
(S.A.), Mrs. Walter Cooper (Q.), Mrs.
Keith Laught (S.A.), Mrs. James Fraser
(W.A.), Mrs. Alan Guy (Tas.) and Mrs.
A. Hendrickson (Vic.).
☆ * *
With the R.A.S.’s Coronation Show
in full swing in Melbourne, the
president of the society, Mr. T. N.
Mitchell, was host at a luncheon-
party. The dining - room in the
administrative building was beautifully
decorated with large bowls of daffodils,
rhododendrons and stocks. The greatly-
admired buffet-luncheon table had been
arranged by the William Angliss Food
Trades School Mr. Mitchell was assisted
in receiving the guests by his sister, Miss
Florence Mitchell, and Mrs. Norman
Mitchell, whose husband, Judge Mitchell,
is a vice-president of the R.A.S, Guests
included the Director of Agriculture, Mr.
Mullett, and Mrs. Mullett, Sir William
and Lady Angliss, Dr. and Mrs. Frank
Stephens, Mr. and Mrs. E, A. Doyle,
David Knox and his wife, Cr. and Mrs.
H. Lyall and Mr. and Mrs. L. M. Dug-
dale.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the Battle of Britain Ball held in
the wonderfully decorated Royal Ball-
room the president of the Australian Air
Force Women’s Association, Mrs. E. C.
Wackett, assisted by her, brother-in-law,
Mr. L. J. Wackett, received the official
guests: Air-Marshal Sir Donald Hard-
man, Air-Marshal Sir George Jones and
Lady Jones, Major-General and Mrs. A.
C. Shortt, Lady Rowell, Air-Marshal R.
Williams and Mrs. Williams and Air-
Vice-Marshal J. E. Hewitt and Mrs.
Hewitt.
Lady Hardman’s slim-fitting gown was
of grey and yellow brocade ; her daughter
Salty wore a bouffant gown of black
tulle. Mrs. Wackett’s strapless gown of
white marquisette had appliques of grey
leaves on bodice and skirt. Mrs. J. E.
Hewitt, who was chairman of the ball-
committee, danced in cream-and-gold
brocade which carried pearl embroideries.
Barbara Hewitt was in a frock of pastel-
blue net and lace, her sister Jennifer in
grey net.
* ☆ *
Frothy little bits of nonsense, hats with
large and interchangeable brims and
spring models of wide variety were shown
at Giro’s to aid Red Cross. Modelled
by Greta Miers, Ellie Lucas artd Mar-
garet, they were designed by Margo
Brezny. Two of the most popular
materials for spring, nylon jersey-straw
and figured organza, were featured in a
number of pretty hats. Several were
designed to lead a double life, with an
overbrim that could be quickly whipped
off, leaving another color beneath. One
model could be worn in four different
ways. It started off as a wide-brimmed
garden-party type, finally ending as a
cocktail hat with a large bunch of white
flowers giving an air of elegance to the
brimless crown.
Guests at the parade were Reta Find-
lay, who wore a loose-fitting mushroom
coat trimmed with black fur and a black
pillbox cap, and Peter Russell, the
English designer. Organisers were Mrs.
Eric Cottrell, who contrasted her navy
suit with a currant-red high-crowned
cloche, Mrs. Robert Wallace Mitchell,
whose black coat featured the new shawl
collar, and Mrs. S. Aarons, in a white
cloche beaded with pearls and a black
suit. Ticket-secretary Mrs. Jim Peters
chose a corn-yellow jersey frock and
black petal-trimmed melusine hat. Mrs.
Leonard Buxton wore with her navy wool
suit an ostrich-feather-trimmed navy hat.
This sketch of Bertha Johnstone is by
Esther Paterson, who also did the jacket
for Mrs. Johnstone’s new book, “The
Tarnished Gateway,” which comes off
the presses this month. Bertha, who has
had published already an historical novel,
“The Stream of Years”; a collection of
poems, “Tropical Night”; and a whim-
sical book for children, “Christy Ann”;
is the wife of W. M. Johnstone, and has
two sons: Des, who has just been ad-
mitted to the Bar, and Brian, who is
doing Science at the University.
The Melbourne Racing Club’s ball at
the Royale, which will swell the funds
of Legacy, had the Turf motif strongly
in evidence to support the floral decora-
tions. Official guests were Air Vice-
Marshal F. Bladin and Mrs. Bladin,
Legacy president S. S. Neville and
hon. secretary P. A. Schofield and
Mrs. Schofield, M.R.C. chairman S.
G. Garnsworthy and Mrs. Garnsworthy,
treasurer T. Carlyon and Mrs. Carlyon,
and secretary John Reilly and Mrs.
Reilly. Mrs. Carlyon, who was president
of the women’s committee, combined a
white Chantilly lace bodice and a sunray
pleated nylon skirt. Mrs. Garnsworthy s
frock was of gold satin, Mrs. Reilly s
of royal-blue tulle and sequins.
☆ * ☆
There were six former Lady Mayor-
esses at the party which the new Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. R. ,JL Solly, gave in
her reception-room; Lady Wales, Lady
Disney, Lady Beaurepaire, Mrs. A. W.
Coles, Mrs. Beatrice Campbell and Mrs.
John Inkster. Assisting the Lady
Mayoress, who wore a junior-blue
tailored suit and close-fitting coral felt
hat, were her daughters Noelle and
Eileen and her niece Jean Belsen. Two
wives of new councillors, Mrs. A. V.
Finlay and Mrs. F. W. Thomas, were
the guests-of-honor.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A, 0. MAITLAND. Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Missing Friend
Would any descendants or relatives of
EDWARD RICHTER formerly of Water-
loo, South Australia, please communicate
with the DISTRICT MANAGER. PUBLIC
TRUST OFFICE, Thames, New Zealand.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN DAVID MASON late of Wil-
son’s Parade Heathcote. —TAKE NOTICE
that JOAN AMY MASON has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2596 of 1953 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Su-
preme Court King Street Sydney by the
27th day of November 1953 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. P. F. IRVINE & CO., Solicitors,
of 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.—J.
D. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
SUNDRY
SHOWS
CORONATION SHOW
Fifty - thousand exhibits,
organic and inorganic, to the
value of £3,000,000, have been
poured into the Melbourne
Showground for a show that, of
course, had to be called the
Coronation and which had to
open in glorious weather, having
a new president to act as host, a
new Governor-General to act as
opener and a new secretary to
show Sir William Slim the pomp
and pageantry of Victoria’s
shop-window.
The hottest day since April
had its effect upon the beef,
mutton and machinery spread
out in the pavilions and splayed
out in the arena. The coats of
the Clydesdales looked glossier,
the galloways more distin-
guished, the beer-wagons more
resplendent, the Poll Herefords
more complacent, as if they had
overheard O. W. Hiscock, the
Yea judge, saying that they were
the best he had ever seen; and
the ladies’ hacks looked almost
as expensive as their riders.
Even the heavy draughts didn’t
look as underprivileged as they
did last year, knowing full well,
as they do, that the haulage-
horse can stiff hold its own
against the tractor in wet,
undulating country; and
hundreds of thousands of
pounds’ worth of ironclad dipro-
todons, mastodons and giganto-
sauruses glinted and gleamed in
red, blue and yellow duco in the
machinery hangars.
The grounds themselves can
boast of having had a much-
needed facelift and the merry-
go-round boasts about itself
through an amplifier, as does
pretty well everything else,
including the World’s Fattest
Girl and the pigmies from
darkest Africa. The din, in fact,
is terrific, and the queer, faraway
noise of a Sabre jet three miles
up sounds like the ghostly
clatter of a celestial wash-up.
It doesn't require very much
skill to become the World’s
Fattest Girl, but it does to be-
come the world’s champion axe-
man. Sir William lobbed into
the woodchopping arena just in
time to see a dramatic demon-
stration of it.
The world’s greatest axeman,
a wiry, athletic-looking indi-
vidual, stood at the foot of his
tree-trunk nonchalantly fingering
the blade of his axe while his
five competitors frenziedly
shinned-up theirs until they got
to the top and started making
the chips fly. It looked a hope-
less handicap and the crowd
felt sorry for the champion —
until he started. A few swift
cuts and he rammed one
precarious-looking footrest in,
and then another, and another,
and he was at the top, had cut
his west scarf, was shinning
down again, gathering up his
impedimenta as he descended,
and was up again cutting his east
scarf seconds before the others ;
a few keen strokes and his block
had flown asunder and he was at
the bottom, shaking the hand of
the Governor-General after a
display of skill and perfect tim-
ing that a violin virtuoso might
envy.
There are plenty of other
skills, of course, y at Melbourne’s
Coronation Show, like the first
properly conducted Australasia-
wide sheep-shearing competition
which proceeds from the jum-
buck’s back through the weaving
machines to the mannequins’
backs and plunging waistlines.
Stage and Music
Joan Hammond
Any lingering doubts that, in
intelligence and quality of sing-
ing, Joan Hammond is as near
perfection as anything could be
were dispelled by the Australian
singer’s rendering of an aria
from Puccini and one from
Berlioz at the latest “celebrity”
concert of the Victorian Sym-
phony Orchestra at the Town
Hall, Melbourne, under Juan
Jose Castro’s firm conducting.
Miss Hammond kept the
emotional line of the music in
lovely balance, although the
mood of “In These Soft Silken
Curtains”, and that of “Alone
and Heavy Hearted” were
entirely different.
The Argentine conductor was
faced with much the same prob-
lem in putting a contemporary
Italian composer, Giorgio
Ghedini, through his paces in a
work called “L’Alderina” along-
side Beethoven in the “Leonora”
and Cesar Franck.
The Italian’s piece is con-
cerned with birdcalls and the
murmurings and mutterings of
Nature, and, although much the
same effect could be obtained by
setting up a wire-recorder in a
gully, the sounds were pleasant,
especially when Richard Chugg
chirped on his flute and Bertha
Jorgensen twittered on her
fiddle.
The Beethoven was magnifi-
cently rendered, and the Cdsar
Franck was full of fire and fury.
♦> ♦£+ ♦>
“To sea”
The well-rehearsed realism
which lent such conviction to
the third act of National
Theatre’s production of “Tosca”
at Sydney Royal was given an
added and unrehearsed boost
when Cavaradossi crumpled con-
vincingly as the firing-party did
its job. Everybody thought that
the red spot on his shoulder was
the device of an imaginative
producer. It transpired that one
of the cartridges wasn’t as blank
as it should have been.
Elsewhere Lance Ingram, who
sang the role of the doomed
painter with virility and some
excellent high notes, had been
much more at ease than he was
in “Madame Butterfly.” Betty
Fretwell was in fine voice in
the title-role, and she thrust the
dirk into the police chief’s vitals
with quite a vicious jab which
seemed to give her a deal of
satisfaction, as of course it did
everybody except the p.c.
John Shaw’s Scarpia was quite
a convincing portrayal of
polished evil, and he never over-
did the suavity. His baritone
was adequate, though not out-
standing.
Susskind and Miss Hart
Walter Susskind put his
mobile face through the best set
of contortions seen outside the
Tiv. when he by turns cajoled
and threatened and smiled bene-
volently while piloting the
Sydney Orchestra on Saturday
night through Tschaikowsky’s
tear-drenched Sixth Symphony
(“The Pathdtique”}.
The orchestra responded
magnificently in the irresistible
surges of power and the dis-
courses between the woodwinds
and strings in the opening move-
ment, in the halting gaiety of
the first allegro, the bold
rhythms and blazing fury of the
third movement, and in the
superb colorings of the Adagio
lamentoso. The final chords
whispering away to nothing were
beautifully tapered. Altogether
it was a glowing performance.
Perry Hart, the young Aus-
tralian violinist, was soloist in
Mendelssohn’s Concerto in E
Minor. This work, the feminine
counterpart to Beethoven’s very
masculine essay in the same
form, suited admirably the
delicate and facile bowing
which Miss Hart had at her
command, and the lovely tone
she drew from her instrument on
all strings.
* * ❖
Melbourne Tiv.
The National Grand Opera
Company having shaken the dust
of Bourke-street off their shoes,
Les Danseuses avec Les Nus, Les
Girls de Latin Quarter, Les
Models, Les Comic Carpenters
avec Les Vocal Acrobats and
the Daresco trio are back at the
Tivoli, Melbourne, and hordes
of Tiv. habitues are contentedly
purring dans stalls, dans Gods
and dans circle.
Star of the new show is Clau-
dine Cheret, the Rage of Paris,
a typical French lady with a
roguish eye and a quick foot
who sings innocuously in broken
English.
Lowe and Ladd deal irrever-
ently with the housing prob-
lem, Susan Jeans and Lewis
Jacobs deal with the loves and
life of Chopin, and Les Nus, not
as nu as formerly, stand
statuesquely on the top of a
gigantic fiddle.
Les Danseuses are shakes and
Renita Kramer is an orchid in a
Dream of the Jungle, and the
dressing and the settings are up
to standard.
❖ ❖ ❖
‘‘Spring, 1600”
In the latest offering of Bris-
bane’s Twelfth Night Theatre,
“Spring, 1600,” Emlyn Williams
deserts his Welsh mining valleys
for a light-hearted, backward
glance at the theatrical world of
Shakspeare’s day.
Into a company of players
directed by Richard Burbage he
brings a country lass who has
run opt of a preposterous
marriage to her luck on the
stage. To do this she must dis-
guise herself as a boy, and be
thus eligible for the playing of
women’s parts according to the
convention of the time. Gwen
Wheeler, pert and slender as the
plot itself, made the part cred-
ible to the point of making the
audience understand the envy of
the regular “women” of the
company, Alan Denby’s amus-
ing impersonation of one of
these Elizabethan principal boys
stole a number of scenes, but in
the main it was the company’s
play, and was at its best in the
hilarity of the mock-rehearsals.
James Stevens, as Burbage,
had the authority and gusto of
the actor-impresario, but gave
little evidence of the necessary
twinkle in the eye which was
intended to attract the girl.
Artbursts
Twenty Melbourne Painters
The Twenty Melbourne
Painters, holding their 35th
exhibition at the Athenaeum
Gallery, Melbourne, are what
might be described, not deroga-
torily, as old-timers. Most of
them date from the days when
Max Meldrum was beginning to
be a power in the land and to
exercise an influence, not only
on his pupils,, but on a whole
lot of artists who were more or
less on the outskirts of the move-
ment or heard echoes of it. Con-
sequently in pretty well all their
pictures there is some evidence'
of the influence of Meldrum in a
basis of sound observation.
Generally, however, such
evidence is scanty, and all sorts
of other tendencies are reflected
in the exhibition, from W. A.
Dargie’s “Masks and Mirrors” to
Percy Watson’s “Composition,”
and from Graham Moore’s pre-
tentious portrait of Mrs. Ross
Grey Smith, Arnold Shore’s
“Flower Piece” and Rex Bram-
leigh’s sensitive “Blossom in the
Studio” to Polly Hurry’s “Still
Life” and John Farmer’s gentle
landscapes.
The solid things about the
exhibition are Max Meldrum’s
own stark and uncompromising
“Self-portrait,” in which he
states his principles in firm brush-
strokes which are so few that
they could almost be counted,
and one of his fine early French
works, “Pont Rean, France,”
where his own particular view-
point was tempered by the
influence of* Corot.
Arthur Boyd
The picture which most
catches the eye at Arthur Boyd’s
letrospective exhibition at the
Peter Bray Gallery in Mel-
bourne, which goes back to land-
scapes painted when he was 14,
is “The Mining Town,” an
admirable souvenir of Breughel.
Though not as well drawn, the
mass of figures, animals, houses
and objects of all sorts set in an
expansive landscape conveys the
and excitement of the
Flemish painter.
There is the same evidence of
sensitiveness and talent in his
tiles where the craftsmanship of
the potter is applied to freezing
on to clay slabs Picasso-like dis-
tortions of more-or-less familiar
objects, like the whale putting
Jonah into its mouth and Jacob
wrestling with an angel.
There is a richness of color
and a feeling for design here that
stand the artist in good stead
when his aim is decorative. They
fail him where the apparent
object is depiction, as in the
portrait of Mary Talbot and
“Pauline,” where it is obvious
that what the painter lacks is a
foundation of real knowledge
which can’t be replaced by
feeling.
❖ ❖ *>
Mosman Art Prize
The judge of the Mosman Art
Prize was confronted, in the
oils section, with an array
that led from Mary Edwards’s
portrait of “Sapper Giles”
and prosaic landscapes by
Alan Grieve, J. R. Ashton,
Dora Toovey, H. Edgecombe,
Douglas Pratt, Frank Spears
and H. A. Hanke, through
Elaine Haxton’s gaudy “Country
Store,” Marjory Penglase’s very
grey “Old Grey House,” Byram
Mansell’s themes on aboriginal
motifs and George Duncan’s
autumn essay, to a glossy Nolan
and a grubby composition by
Michael Kmit.
He plumped for J. R. Ashton’s
undistinguished and heavily-
painted view of “Wollongong
Harbor” ; on that taste the
prize might just as easily have
gone to the same artist’s “Land-
scape,” or, more logically, to
Hanke’s “Shadows Across the
Road, Jamberoo,” which at least
has some depth and light in it,
or to Spears’s “The Old Flame
Tree,” which has a touch of
minor lyricism about it.
The main contributions to the
watercolor section include
Muriel Medworth’s slight but
graceful “Summer Gone,” Cedric
Emanuel’s “Pont Neuf, Paris,”
and A. Osborne Smith’s impos-
ing gum-tree in “Swamp
Majesty,” followed by facile but
uninspired watercolors by Phil
Phillips, Mollie Flaxman and E.
Dangerfield. Miss Medworth
was a fair pick for first, although
one might have said the same
thing about Osborne-Smith and
Emanuel.
Talkies
“The Prince of Pirates” (Syd-
ney Lyceum): The realism is
such in the sea battles of this
film that you can almost see the
plug in the bottom of the tank
in which they were shot. There
are also 17th-century pirates
who shoot with 19th-century
rifles, a lady pirate who wields
a rapier with the same dexterity
as she might a blacksmith’s
anvil, and the most puerile
piratical plot yet hatched. But
the shot-proof hero (John
Derek) has a ducky marcel.
“Dangerous When Wet”
(Sydney St. James): And even
on the rare occasions during
the proceedings when she is dry,
as Esther Williams clearly
demonstrates in this pleasant
part-musical, which concerns the
lady’s attempt to swim the Eng-
lish Channel. The story is the
thinnest of threads on which
are hung some nice aquatic
sequences. Jack Carson turns
in a neat piece of work as a fast-
talking sales-promoter.
“Thunder Bay” (Sydney
State): Drama of an ocean-oil-
drilling syndicate’s dual fight
against the elements and the
hostilities of Mexican Gulf
shrimp-fishermen. The story
holds together well, and the oil-
drilling operations off-shore are
interesting and convincing. A
solid cast is headed by James
Stewart as a hard-driving field-
engineer.
“Every Minute Counts” (Syd-
ney Palace): Suspense melo-
drama, with a small-town
lawyer fighting to save a man
from the gallows. There is no
lack of excitement, although the
film is partly spoiled by one of
those American court scenes,
where every counsel and wit-
ness in turn takes charge of the
comic-opera proceedings.
“Stalag 17” (Sydney Victory):
An entertaining film, which in
the final 20 minutes becomes
quite gripping, this has to do
with the life led by some
American prisoners in a Nazi
prison-camp. The core of the
story is the suspicion rife among
the prisoners that one of their
number is supplying informa-
tion on his fellows to the guards.
William Holden as the mordant
sergeant and Otto Preminger as
the Nazi commandant with a
twisted sense of humor stand out.


OUR NEW SELECTION
Good-bye to the Old
Home
by
"STEELE RUDD"
(Arthur H. Davis)
6 617TT! Kit!” called Sarah,
standing at the back-door
with a saucer of milk. The
kitten lay in the sun, blinked at
her and rolled over playfully,
but didn’t come. “You’re too
well fed! ” said Sarah, retreating
into the kitchen. The kitten
purred lazily to signify that that
was so.
Everything was well-fed at
Shingle Hut now. A change had
come. An air of prosperity was
about the place. Broad-backed,
upstanding draught-horses, fat
and fresh, fed around con-
tentedly ; the paddock was
stocked with sleek, well-bred
cows and spring heifers, and
four- and five-year-old bullocks
fit for a show; the reaper-and-
binder in the shed was all our
own, two ploughs were going,
and —ye moneylenders! - the
mortgage had been paid right
off.
For six successive years our
wheat crop had been a big suc-
cess. No matter what Dad did
he couldn’t go wrong. When-
ever he was compelled to sow
late there was sure to be too
much rain and early crops would
run rank, or take the rust, or the
smut, or something, while ours
would come on nicely and be a
success. Or else no rain at all
would fall —somehow it would
wait for Dad —and when Ander-
son’s and Johnson’s and all the
wheat about was parched and
perished, ours was a picture
good to see. And Dad earned
and enjoyed a reputation for
long-headedness, for persistence
and practical farming. People
praised him and pointed to him
as a pattern for their sons to fol-
low —an example of what could
be accomplished on the land by
industry and a bit of brains.
Yet Dad wasn’t satisfied. He
talked of selling out, of taking
up a thousand acres somewhere
and expanding operations. But
Mother opposed it; she thought
we were doing well enough.
Shingle Hut was good enough
for her. She had worked hard
and spent the best of her days in
it, scraping and struggling, and
all she asked now was to live the
rest of her life there—to die
peacefully and be buried near
the house.
The rest of us agreed with
Dad. We wanted a change.
What the result might be we
didn’t consider—we only wished
to shift. Ripping up the old
house, rounding-up the stock,
camping under a dray a night or
two on the way to the Promised
Land gave food for delightful
speculation. We longed for it
all to come about.
“See anything of him?” Dad
asked as Dave rode into the yard
and dismounted after searching
for a lost horse one day.
“No,” Dave said, and leant on
the fence and nibbled the end of
a straw. Dad leant on the other
side and reflected,
A short distance off anew
building was going up. Donald
Mclntyre, a broad-shouldered
Scotsman with a passion for
politics, and one McDonald,
who didn’t believe in Govern-
ments at all, and confined his
studies solely to the weather, and
pumpkins, and profanity, were
building a humpy with a shingl-
ing-hammer. Donald Mclntyre
was on the rafters arguing wildly
and shaking the hammer menac-
ingly at McDonald, who was on
the ground.
Dad and Dave looked up.
“Come doon ye - - !”
shouted McDonald, and Me-
Intyre sprang from the rafters
and pursued him .round and
round the humpy
“A fight!” Dave said ex-
citedly. “Come on!” And he
ran a few paces. But at the same
moment Jse rushed to the scene
out of breath
“ T ftif ff f a ’• tv ,
, “• ur ' ru .t-iound im. Dad.
V" j ,
Where. Dad asked eagerly,
“Bub-bub-bet y’ can’t gug-
guess?”
“Where the devil is he, boy?”
“Look at Mclntyre after him
across the ploughed ground! ”
(enthusiastically from Dave).
“Down the w-w-well!”
“What?” Dad hissed, showing
his teeth and punching the wind
with his fist.
“Is he dead?” he added.
“Don’t know th-that, Dad,
but he s-s-smells!”
Dad groaned and walked in-
side and out again, then round
the yard.
“Yoke up Gipsy and Tiger,”
he said sternly to Dave, “and
bring them down.” Then he
went off to the well by himself.
Dad peered into the well a
moment and drew back and
pulled a very ugly face.
Dave arrived with the horses,
He went to the well to look
down but ran away and spat.
Joe held the horses and
chuckled.
Dave thought of the wind. It
was blowing towards him. He
made a wide circuit and
approached the well on the other
side. But when he leant for-
ward to look down the wind
changed and he ran away again,
Dad was determined. He ad-
vanced with a frown and a
heavy rope, fastened one end of
the latter to a sapling close by
and hurled the rest of it into
the well. Then he, too, retreated,
“Now,” he said to Dave, “go
down and fasten it on ’im! ”
“Me?” Dave said, backing
farther away.
Joe chuckled again.
“Well, y’ don’t expect me to
go down, do y’?” Dad snorted.
Dave grinned a sickly grin.
“It won’t kill y’, will it?”
Then, after a pause, “Are y’
going t’ do it—or not?” There
were shell and shrapnel in Dad’s
eye, and he looked ugly.
“W-w-wet y’r nose, Dave,”
Joe said, advisedly.
Dave hesitated, then reluc-
tantly descended. He disappeared
along the rope and was below
some time. He came to the
surface again and gasped and
staggered and threw himself on
the grass and seemed ill. Change
of air didn’t do Dave much
good.
Dad fastened the horses to the
rope and told them to get up.
The chains jerked and tightened.
Gipsy and Tiger hung in their
collars and strained, and tore
the ground with their toes. Dad
shouted and waved a big stick
over them. Captain’s form
gradually rose till his head was
in sight and his nose caught
against the sleepers that lined
the mouth of the well. Then he
stopped.
“Gipsy . . . Tiger!” Dad
roared, and rattled the stick
encouragingly on their hides.
Gipsy and Tiger began to tire,
and eased off.
“Look out! ” Dave cried.
“Don’t let them back!” Dad
seized their heads and held on.
But the dead horse gradually
descended again, and was slowly
dragging the live ones and Dad
after it. Dad struck Gipsy on
the nose with his fist to make her
stand up. Gipsy reared and fell
across the well and kicked des-
perately. Then Tiger tried to
turn round in his chains and lost
his footing and lay on his back,
his tail hanging down the well.
Dad was horror-stricken. He
threw away his hat and ran in
several directions in search of
something. He found a sapling,
lifted it, threw it down again
and ran back to the horses and
held his hands above his head
like a preacher.
Sal came to tell Dad he was
wanted at the house, but he
couldn’t hear her.
“Curse it, can’t y’ do some-
thing?” he cried to Dave.
Then Gipsy made a big effort
to rise and fell down the well
and dragged Tiger’s harness with
her. Tiger jumped up and made
off. Dad stared aghast.
“W-w-what did y’ hit ’er f?”
Joe asked reproachfully.
“Yah!” Dad bellowed, and
sprang at Joe. Joe didn’t look
behind till he reached the house.
But Burton happened to come
along with his bullock-team, and
rescued Gipsy and dragged
Captain’s corpse from the well.
Then Dad went for a drink of
water in the gully and sat down
under a bush, and Sal came and
spoke to him again, and when
he was calm he went to the
house.
The man from town who had
offered us four hundred pounds
for the selection was at the
house waiting. They went
inside.
“Well,” said the visitor, “have
you considered my offer?”
“Yes,” Dad answered. “I’ll
take it!” —and Shingle Hut was
sold!
Mother clutched her knees
with both hands and stared hard
and silently at the fireplace till
her eyes filled with tears. Sal
ran out to Dave and Job, and
the three of them discussed the
turn things had taken. Mother
came out to them.
“It’s sold?” Sal said.
“Yes,” Mother replied slowly,
“it’s s-s-sold.” And again the
tears came, and she sat on a
sleeper beside the barn and,
hiding her face in her apron,
cried hard.
Sal hung her head and
thought, but Dave went to
Mother and sat beside her and
tried to explain the advantages
of selling out and beginning
afresh. The man left the house,
walked to his horse, shook hands
with Dad and went away.
Then Dad paced up and
down, up and down, and round
about by himself for a long,
long time.
"An air of prosperity was about the place."
A cold, dull day. Heavy black
clouds hung low and darkened
the earth. At intervals a few
drops of rain fell, a deluge
threatened. No gentle winds
blew, no birds whistled among
the boughs. Dave was passing
slowly out at the slip-rails with
a dray-load of furniture and
farm implements, Joe sitting
astride Dad’s old saddle-mare,
in charge of the cows in the lane.
Dad loading a second dray, Sal
putting a horse in the spring-
cart, the rest of us gathering
knick-knacks and things about
the place. We were leaving,
leaving Shingle Hut, the old
house we had known so long,
the old home where Kate was
married, where Bill and Tom
and Barty were born, the home
where merriment so often
mocked misfortune and light
hearts and hope softened the
harshness of adversity.
And Anderson and Mrs.
Anderson came to see us off —
kind-hearted people were the
Andersons. And Judy Jubb
came all the way from Pros-
perity Peak to kiss Sal.
“Good-bye, then, and God
bless y’,” Mrs. Anderson said,
her large eyes swimming in
tears. Mother held out her
hand, but broke down and was
helped into the spring-cart.
“ ’N’ I hope y’ won’t regret
it,” Anderson said as he shook
Dad’s hand. Then with a last
look around—a look of linger-
ing affection—we made farewell
to Shingle Hut and started for
Our New Selection.
A Fresh Start
'T'HUS we came to Saddletop.
1 Dad looking old, Mother
older, Sarah tall and womanly,
Dave a big, bony man, more
reserved than ever, Joe
approaching manhood, broad-
shouldered, sturdy, full-faced
and droll—he was our own
comedian, entertained us often,
and gave us pains in the side by
taking people off. The younger
ones all stretching out, and—no
more babies.
Our new selection was a
piece of magnificent country,
twelve hundred acres, all rich
black soil ten to fifteen feet deep,
permanent water and a Govern-
ment well outside the fence; a
wide fringe of heavy timber at
the back; plain in front, and
grass!—we used to lose the
horses in it.
The house was new, a stately
palace, after Shingle Hut; five
rooms in it; weatherboarded,
floorboarded, iron-roofed; lock
and key to every door; kitchen
and a thousand-gallon tank.
And such water! We had never
known the taste of real water
before. No charcoal, no ashes,
no traces of a drought, no
doubtful flavor of any kind
about it, no scum to scrape off
whenever we boiled some.
And Dad was proud of the
selection. He was pleased with
our prospects altogether, and
talked of the progress the district
was making.
Saddletop was a rising place.
A branch railway-line was com-
ing to it—had been coming for
twenty-two ' years. Farmers
from South Australia were there
—men who, ’twas said, knew
how to farm, who understood all
about soils and silos, and worked
on scientific principles. They
were settled along a deserted
gully where nothing but burr
and thistle and nut-grass grew,
and whenever it rained hard
they would retreat in disorder
to high land, with their wives in
barrows and their beds and
things on their backs.
There was one farmer from
Victoria. He knew something
about selecting. He came and
rooted the trees out of his land
and put in wheat and watched it
grow for a while, then went
away one morning and never
came back.
A number of old pioneers
were there, just beginning to do
well after thirty years of toil
and struggle, their difficulties
and dangers and innumerable
hardships but faintly compre-
hended.
Up dry gullies and blind


X
\
eg? 3
X 2
V.
\U
D
o
X
• t
that they just can't afford delays due to tyre
troubles. Most of them will tell you they want
Goodyear Tyres on their cabs because Good-
year Tyres give longer trouble-free mileage as
well as greater non-skid safety and comfort.
When the men who know tyres best
—the men who drive every day—are
so unanimous in their preference
for Goodyear Tyres, isn’t it reason-
able that you, too, will find them
the best tyres for your car?
For 38 years it has been true: "More
people, the world over, ride on Good-
year Tyres than on any other make."
Only tyres that give the utmost in
performance could stay in first place
that long.
mm
m
Remember—new tubes save tyres —
FIT NEW GOODYEAR HEAVY DUTY TUBES
TA»A
gullies, hidden away behind
ranges and rocks, were selectors
who hoed holes in the long grass
and dropped pumpkin-seed into
them, then went away some-
where and came back with a
horse at the end of a long rope,
which they handled and broke
for somebody while the pumpkin
was growing.
There were a few of a species
who, in wet weather, stood all
day long in their doorway with
a wet bag on their shoulders,
gazing out philosophically on the
pelting rain, and when it wasn’t
raining went away with a
blanket and looked for shearing.
A weird, silent “hatter” was
there, whose hair penetrated his
hat, and who stitched patches on
his pants with a packing-needle
and string—the strange man who
lived under the range away from
everybody in a bark hut propped
up on the downhill side by a
stick ; the man who avoided all
human society; whose hut con-
tained harness, flung on the
floor, and scraps of greenhide,
and a greasy table with sapling-
legs driven into the ground ; who
sat anywhere on the floor and
took his dinner off a tin plate
placed on his knees and asked
questions of his watchful dog
and told it things while the birds
of the bush came round the open
door and hopped in and out un-
molested ; the man who never
grumbled, whose happiness was
the silence and solitude of his
surroundings, whose God was
Nature and whose only hell the
toothache.
The selector of regular move-
ments was there—the methodical
man who caught the same old
horse each morning by glad-
dening the steed’s heart with the
sound of the same few handfuls
of corn rattled in a dish, and
who always went somewhere.
His form was known in the dis-
trict miles off. He was a clock
to those working in the fields.
They told the time of day by
him as he passed along.
There were people from the
town there, too —broken-down
swells who professed hatred for
the bush and were always going
back to the city, but never
started; polite people who
wouldn’t drink tea out of a
saucer, who loved flower-
gardens (and grew one geranium
in a tin), whose daughters de-
clared all the young men
around rough because they
neglected to lift their hats, and
who came out in holland riding-
habits because they were cheap,
and said they were all the
fashion in town.
There was one man who
regularly employed men, who
possessed everything necessary
about a farm and stored his hay
in sheds and drew cheques. He
was the squire of the district.
He always travelled to town by
train, first-class, and never said
good-day to the neighbors, ex-
cept in moments of absent-
mindedness. He might have been
worth a thousand pounds.
People often called him a mil-
lionaire, and it never worried
him ; it made him less absent-
minded. He met Ministerial
parties and influential visitors
to the district at the railway-
station and drove them in a
buggy to his house, and enter-
tained them and showed them
over the farm, and filled the
“special correspondent” with
inspirations of his (the squire’s)
own enterprise, and ideas about
“prosperous selectors” and “a
district with a future.”
Scattered about in remote
places were average selectors,
the plodders —men who poked
along leisurely and reared large
families and took reverses as
cheerfully as they took pills;
men who placed large stones and
heavy fencing material on the
roof to keep it from flying off
When there was any wind (the
roof kept the stones from failing
through and shattering the
dinner-table when there was no
wind); men who reckoned they
could make money and save, if
only the seasons could be relied
on and they had no interest to
meet.
And, some distance from each
other, a small school, surrounded
by gum-trees, and two unpainted
churches of battered, warlike
appearance, raised their heads.
The schoolchildren battered
them. They frequently quarrelled
over religion on the way from
school, and, since there was no
one to read the Riot Act to them,
wrecked each other’s church
with stones.
We had not been long at
Saddletop when we became ac-
quainted with these people.
Many of them came to welcome
us to the district—some to
borrow things.
Miss Wilkins and Miss Mul-
rooney were among the first to
come. They came one bright
afternoon when the air was fresh
and the sky was blue, when the
birds were singing and butter-
flies fluttering, when Dad and
Cranky Jack were trenching for
fruit-trees and Dave and Joe
ploughing on the plain.
They slid off their horses at
the fence surrounding the house
and laughed. The laugh was to
attract attention. They stepped
on to the veranda and curtseyed
and said it was a lovely day.
Mother invited them in. They
hesitated as though time were
precious, and Miss Wilkins said
“We can only stay just a
minute, Mrs. Rudd.” Then they
sat down and poked out the toes
of their boots from under their
habits and looked through the
corners of their eyes at every-
thing in the room, and didn’t
go away till dusk.
Miss Wilkins was a stout per-
son, fat and flabby, and owned
to being five-and-twenty. She
had owned to five-and-twenty
for sixteen years. She laced
tight, too, and fancied herself
thin and shapely. Polly Pale-
thorpe and Annie Hayes (both
jammed into one wouldn’t equal
her size) were objects of astonish-
ment to her.
Miss Mulrooney had a figure
and was only twenty-eight. She
had seen some town life, too,
and was one of those who wore
a holland habit. There were
hints of vanished finery about
her. She was hard-up, in fact,
.and strove to conceal her
poverty by putting on airs.
She sat and drank tea and
ate scones and fresh butter with
much gusto, praised the proven-
der every time she reached for
more, and asked Mother if she
made the scones herself —as if
she would call in a traveller or
get Dad to bake them!
Miss Wilkins talked to Sal
about a dance that was at the
Rise, and Jim Murphy courting
Norah Fahey and old Fahey
chasing Jim with a gun, punctu-
ating her conversation with loud
cheerful shrieks. And Miss Mul-
rooney told Mother in tired tones
how hard it was on them all to
have to rough it in the bush after
being so well off in town, used
to their carriage and servants.
(Her father, the story went, had
been employed by a lawyer in
Brisbane as confidential clerk.
He used to open the “private”
door whenever a client came,
which was nearly once a month,
and inquire in a respectful tone
of the empty chair if he were
engaged ; then he would hand
the client another chair without
making a noise and steal out
into the street to find the lawyer
and drag him in by a back way.)
She assured Mother (and
Mother, good soul, believed her
and felt deeply for the family)
that she didn’t know how they
would live at all only for the
little money papa was still re-
ceiving from the business in
town, as there was nothing at all
to be got out of farming.
And as they talked and drank
more tea the schoolmaster’s wife
and Mary O’Reilly and Miss
Perkins approached the house.
Miss Wilkins saw them through
the window and whispered to
Miss Mulrooney. Miss Mul-
rooney fidgeted and was uneasy,
but, recognising the horses
fastened to the fence, the school-
master’s wife and Mary O’Reilly
and Miss Perkins turned their
heads away and rode past. They
weren’t speaking to Miss Wilkins
or Miss Mulrooney.
Gray (the squire of the dis-
trict) came one morning. He
merely looked in because he hap-
pened to be passing. But he
wouldn’t come inside —that
would be making himself cheap.
He stayed in the yard and talked
with an air of superior know-
ledge to Dad.
“What do you want with a
thing like that?” he said, point-
ing to a new three-furrow
plough. (He was a stale con-
servative who wouldn’t see, and
regarded everything new with
contempt.)
“To plough with and save
time and labor,” Dad answered.
“Save your grandmother! ”
Gray said. “I’ve a couple of
single-furrows over there,” he
went on, indicating his farm,
“and I guarantee any of my
men’ll turn over as much land
in a day with any one of them
as you will with that.”
“Well,” said Dad, “send a man
along with one an’ we’ll see.”
“And plough your land for
you?” Gray went a\yay.
And Sam Evans came, and
stood on the veranda, bashfully
turning an old hat round and
round in his hands, and wouldn’t
step inside because the place was
clean. But Barney Ballantyne
would. He said it was “cheaper
sittin’ than standin’,” and he
sat down on Sarah’s hat that
had been left on a chair and
told Dad lies about wheat-crops,
and chewed tobacco, and spat
squares and circles till they
evolved into carpet-patterns on
the cleanly-scrubbed floor.
Many others called, and in
due course we returned their
visits. We mixed with them in
their homes, mingled with them
abroad, shared their successes,
their prejudices and sympathies,
joined with them in song and
sorrow in these new surround-
ings, and among new friends
and true friends we faced the
vagaries of fortune afresh and
commenced a new life.
{To be continued next week)
NURSERY RHYME
She wished only to be honest;
Somehow she was unwise—
From someone’s lips her own
Were moulded into lies.
She walked up William-street
In a good and golden hour
But night unfurled too fast
Into a neon flower.
The flower quivered and shook,
Its petals flared and grew
In monstrous clattering shapes
That sang; “We are the true
“And only growth that comes
From the brown stone fields;
This is what rain is for
And all that birth yields.”
She leaned on the harbor wall
Where the coiling water glistened
A black and oily opal;
It seemed to speak and she
listened
Because there is comfort in water;
But this was sluggish and thick
Having no clean cold words
And its fluid sound was a trick.
She tried to kick a protest
From the sly grass in the park:
It was mown and trodden to
silence
Drenched, dull and dark.
Then the old wishing-tree
Where all the children played
Whispered: “There is a cure
I heard from a nurse-maid.”
She circled him three times
Touching his bark with hope.
The leaves laughed as she ran
off home
To scrub her mouth with soap.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


FEAR
by STANDBY
(R.S.Porter's)
HE was young and impres-
sionable, a mere second-
year cadet, and the pro-
longed terror of his
recent experience sat so heavily
upon him that he shrank from
the thought of going back to sea
—ever. I could see that, could
sense it in his nervous darting
glances, and in the way he kept
running his fingers through his
sleek fair hair as though trying
to soothe the tingling of his
scalp. Yet he obviously wanted
to talk, to unburden himself, and
I was equally anxious to hear
his story.
■yUE were bound for Wellington
_ via the Panama Canal (he
said), and until we were well out
in the Pacific the voyage could
only be described as pleasantly
dull. Our crew were a better-
than-average lot, and the three
mates were splendid fellows —
particularly Anderson, the First.
To me he was the ideal ship’s
officer —big, square-cut and
amazingly competent. He was a
man who inspired you with con-
fidence, and made the most dif-
ficult jobs seem easy. I used to
wish I was in his watch, but Stan
Hardy, my fellow-cadet, had that
honor and I was in the Third’s.
The Second stood his watch
alone as the ship only carried
two cadets.
Stan and I shared a cabin,
and were referred to by the mates
as “the terrible twins.” Because
we were both fair-headed, I sup-
pose. Apart from that there was
little resemblance between us.
Stan was easygoing and irrepres-
sible. He seldom took anything
seriously, and even a bawling-
out by one of the officers
couldn’t wipe the pleased grin off
his face.
Well, there we were—under
Anderson’s capable control —a
normal, cheerfully - competent
ship’s company. Captain Felton
supplied the one jarring note,
but fortunately we didn’t see a
great deal of him. He was tall,
a trifle on the lean side with a
certain air of distinction about
him. Never once did I see him
relaxed, nor could I imagine such
a human thing as a smile soften-
ing his autocratic features. He
spoke rarely, never without a
biting sarcasm that made every-
one on the bridge feel uncom-
fortable as soon as he came up.
Five days out from Panama
we got our first warning that
things within the ship were by
no means as tranquil as they
appeared. We didn’t recognise it
as a warning, of course. At most
we looked on it as a break in the
monotony of a long voyage.
How were we to know that the
“man-overboard” alarm for an
unfortunate steward was to be
the start of days and nights of
sheer terror?
We don’t know what time the
steward disappeared; some time
during the night was as close as
anyone could get to it. It was
after sunrise before the' chief
steward satisfied himself that the
man really was missing. He
reported it to the Old Man, and
had to listen to a few biting
remarks about useless stewards
who fell overboard on a per-
fectly calm night, and incom-
petent chief stewards who wasted
nearly an hour before reporting
a man overboard. But before
he said his bit Captain Felton
had the ship turned back and a
search started.
We steamed back on our
tracks for three hours, and
although nearly every man on
board kept a sharp lookout we
saw no sign of the missing
steward. Mind you, I don’t think
anyone really expected to find
him. The general theory was
that he had committed suicide.
He’d always looked as though
life was a burden to him —a thin,
bald-headed little man with an
expression of perpetual gloom
on his face,. Moreover, the night
had been calm and clear—one of
those lovely tropic nights with a
steady trade-wind blowing gently
from just abaft the beam. The
roll of the ship was so gentle
you could scarcely feel it, even
high up on the bridge, and the
stars above us were so bright
they made our white paint-work
gleam against the background of
sea.
At the end of three hours,
when even the most optimistic
of us knew we were wast-
ing time, the Old Man had
the ship brought back on her
course for Wellington. The
whole incident was officially
logged, and throughout the day
it formed our sole topic of con-
versation. Not that we were
worried or in any way puzzled.
In the main we accepted the
theory of suicide, and specula-
tions as to why he had deliber-
ately jumped overboard varied
from trouble with the police to
a nagging wife, the most popular
being that he was suffering from
some incurable disease like
cancer and had taken the easy
way out.
TWO mornings later an able-
seaman named Jorgensen
was reported missing. The cir-
cumstances were the same—fine
clear night with scarcely any sea
running—though the time-factor
was narrowed down by the fact
that Jorgensen had come off duty
at midnight. At breakfast-time
there was no trace of him. But
there never had been the slightest
resemblance between the two
men, Jorgensen was a plump,
jovial man who beamed amiably
on everyone. Ashore or afloat
he had always enjoyed life to the
full.
We doubled back on our
tracks and searched for him for
four hours. Then for two days
we talked, talked and specu-
lated. It’s extremely difficult for
a man to fall overboard from
the decks of a modern cargo-
ship. The small gaps between
the davits and the lifeboats are
the only places not completely
railed in. And, apart from the
fact that he had no reason to go
anywhere near one of those gaps,
Jorgensen was far too good a
seaman to fall through one even
in a heavy sea. Equally fantastic
in his case was the idea of
suicide.
What then? We asked each
other. Had both men been
murdered by a common enemy?
Ridiculous! Before their deaths
they’d had nothing in common.
The only similarity was in the
manner of their going. No sign
of a struggle, no half-strangled
cry for help in the dead of night,
not even a spatter of blood on
deck. Somehow we didn’t like
that phrase, “the dead of night,”
and it was quietly dropped from
our conversation.
Two nights after Jorgensen’s
disappearance a greaser went.
Anderson, the first-mate, wanted
to make another search, but
Captain Felton flatly refused to
turn the ship around.
“Use your intellect, Mr.
Anderson,” he snapped. “Quite
apart from wasting the com-
pany’s time and fuel the sooner
we get this ship into port, where
the proper authorities can take
over, the better. It may not have
occurred to you that if we’re
harboring a homicidal maniac
aboard we’ll be playing right
into his hands by spending a few
extra nights at sea.”
He went down to his quarters,
and when he returned he was
carrying a heavy service revolver.
“Take this, Mr. Anderson,” he
said, “Find a couple of
volunteers to help you and
search the ship. Get the hatch-
covers off and go over her from
stem to stem. If there’s a killer
hiding aboard bring him up here
even if you have to shoot him
first.”
Anderson squared his broad
shoulders and said “I think I can
manage without the gun, sir. I
never was much of a shot, any-
way,”
They found no one. And as
the fruitless search progressed
we gathered in small groups and
talked in hushed tones. Homi-
cidal maniac! We whispered the
words, afraid to face up to the
possibility that the man could
be one of us, a well-known ship-
mate. To escape that horrible
thought we gave serious con-
sideration to the most fantastic
theories.
One old-timer maintained that
some terrible sea-monster was
shadowing the ship, snatching its
victims from the decks at night.
He quoted the Marie Celeste and
one or two other unsolved cases
to back his theory. He had a
small following, even though
Stan laughed and said:
“You blokes are worse than a
mob of old women. A sea-
serpent might slither over the
low freeboard of a becalmed
sailing-ship, but he’d need wings
to get up our steel sides, especi-
ally when we’re cracking along
at fifteen knots.”
Then why, they asked, had
there been no signs of struggle,
no bloodstains, no cries for help
in the night? Why? Those
were the questions we were all
asking. We were uneasy and
afraid. But it was individual
fear, each man striving to
conceal his true feelings from his
shipmates. There was no sign of
panic—yet. That was to come.
The uneasiness increased as
darkness set in. There was no
loitering about the decks, and
when the watches changed men
hurried to and from the bridge,
avoiding the darker patches and
sticking close to their watch-
mates. Even on watch attentions
were focused within the ship
rather than outside. After all,
in this little-used stretch of
ocean there was small danger of
collision.
A T midnight the third-mate
and I handed over to the
second-mate and thankfully
turned in. Stan was snoring
gently, and although I knew he
would be called for his watch at
ten to four I carefully locked
the door. Better, I felt, be dis-
turbed by someone banging on
the door in less than four hours
than be murdered in my sleep.
To put it truthfully, those dark
hours on the bridge had left me
in a state of abject terror.
At ten minutes to four the
stand-by seaman nearly battered
the door down. Stan, cursing
him loudly, switched on the light,
unlocked the door and asked
why the so-and-so hell I had
locked it. He piped down when
the seaman, a Cockney named
Hales, told us the news. The
second-mate was missing. The
helmsman had seen him walk
out to the port wing of the
bridge soon after three, but at
twenty minutes to four the look-
out man had been unable to find
him.
“I called the Old Man,” Hales
said. “And ’e didn’t arf put on
an act. Said I must ’ave been
asleep for a thing like that to
’appen. I’m standin’ in the
starb’d wing of the bridge, I tells
’im, where I’m supposed to be.
And as for bein’ asleep, I’m too
bloody scared to even shut one
eye.”
Stan said “You’d better wait
till I get dressed. I don’t alto-
gether fancy the idea of walking
from here to the bridge alone.”
“You won’t be,” Hales assured
him. “The Old Man says you’re
both gotter come up. And yer
can both come with me while I
call me relief. I ain’t walking
about this ruddy ship by meself,
not for all the shipowners in
England. I told the Old Man
that, and ’e come down with me
and waited till I knocked on yer
door.”
“Knocked!” Stan pulled his
coat on. “You damned nearly
battered it down. Come on.”
We called the next two sea-
men and hurried to the bridge.
Without any real hope of success
we searched that lonely stretch
of sea until after sunrise. And
we saw nothing—nothing but the
heaving, boundless ocean.
But within the ship we did
find something. At the foot of
a stanchion in the port wing of
the bridge we found a few drops
of blood, and on the teak rail
above it, a long smear, also of
blood.
“Look hpre, sir,” Stan called
excitedly, “you can see what
happened. His head must have
struck the base of this stanchion
when he fell, and then the
murderer picked him up and
dumped him over the side.”
“Our young detective recon-
structs the crime,” Captain
Felton said. He and Anderson
had bent to examine the stains
on the deck. “And what sort of
weapon was used, Detective
Hardy?”
Under the scathing sarcasm
Stan mumbled something. I
didn’t catch his reply. My atten-
tion was distracted by Anderson.
Ordinarily his face was deeply
tanned, but as he straightened up
he looked grey and positively
horrified. Beads of sweat
glistened on his forehead and I
could have sworn he trembled.
Captain Felton noticed it and
asked “What the devil’s the
matter with you, Anderson?”
“Sorry, sir,” Anderson stam-
mered, “A bit of a turn. Must
have been the sight of that
blood.” He was struggling to
regain control of himself.
“Good God!” the Old Man
snapped. “Don’t tell me you’re
the sort that faints at the sight
of a few drops of blood! Pull
yourself together, man. We’ll
have a full-scale panic on our
hands with you setting the men
that sort of example.”
WELL, that’s exactly what we
did have. Before darkness
set in that night I realised that
fear can spread like a contagious
disease and sweep through a ship
with the destructive speed of a
raging fire. We harbored no
stowaways; Anderson’s search
had proved that.
There remained then the one
horrible, inescapable explana-
tion. One of us, a shipmate, an
apparently normal man, was
in reality a dangerous homicidal
maniac! What a hellish thought
for a handful of men cooped-up
within the steel walls of a ship in
mid-ocean!
In the privacy of our cabin
Stan said to me “How can we
tell who it is? How do I know
it isn’t you? When I lock that
door how do I know that, instead
of shutting myself away from
danger. I’m not locking myself
in with the killer?”
The hint of humorous banter
in his tone annoyed me. “Don’t


YARRA FALLS SUITINGS
made in Australia
from pure Australian
virgin wool
be a fool,” I told him irritably.
“This is no time for joking. I
don’t mind admitting that I’m
scared stiff; scared to walk down
an alleyway alone, even in day-
light.”
“I’m getting that way myself,”
he admitted. “Did you notice
the expression on Anderson's
face when I spotted the blood?
I wonder if he could be the
killer.”
Though I defended Anderson
loyally I could not put the idea
out of my mind. Was that the
explanation? Could he be the
killer? And that’s how every
one of us felt about his ship-
mate. You spoke to a man of
listened to his views on the all-
absorbing topic, and all the time
you were wondering—could this
be the man?
Captain Felton received a
deputation from the men that
mQrning. They demanded that
he send out an immediate call
for assistance from the nearest
warship and that he put into the
nearest port. They were not talk-
ing mutiny, they took care to
explain, when they pointed out
that they could not reasonably
be expected to risk their lives by
reporting for duty during the
hours of darkness.
For once the Old Man was
sympathetic and intensely prac-
tical. He instructed “Sparks” to
send out a call to the nearest
warship at once. He had already
considered . making for the
closest port, he told the deputa-
tion, but had reluctantly decided
against it. Spreading an ocean
chart on his desk he explained
why. By steaming four-hundred
miles out of his course he could
reach Tahiti. But what then?
The French authorities would
certainly refuse us permission to
land. They might even refuse to
put a police guard aboard while
they conducted an inquiry. And
all that time we’d be anchored
well out, flying the yellow flag,
with the unknown killer still
amongst us.
Much better, the Old Man
said, keep steaming at top speed
for Wellington. In a day or two
we’d be intercepted by a unit
of the New Zealand Navy, a
naval guard would be put
aboard, and once in Wellington
the proper authorities could take
over.
He also unbent to the extent
of outlining a plan for our
safety.
From sunset to sunrise the
watches would be doubled so
that no man would be left alone.
His revolver, the only firearm
on board, would be handed over
to the officer of each watch, and
the armed officer would escort all
seamen to and from the bridge
during the hours of darkness.
The chief engineer would be
instructed to make similar
arrangements for the men of his
department.
The deputation left, feeling
relieved, though far from satis-
fied. The most elaborate pre-
cautions could not prevent every
man from wondering who would
be the next victim. We were
gloomily certain there would be
a next.
/'YNE seaman with a perverted
sense of humor predicted
that it would be either Stan or
me.
“This bloke goes for variety,”
he pointed out. “He’s bumped
off a man from every depart-
ment. Stands to reason he won’t
be satisfied without a nice soft
cadet.”
And though Stan pretended
to be amused I brooded over the
thought for days.
Stan’s air of lighthearted indif-
ference vanished with the setting
sun, and though the night passed
without incident we were an
undisciplined rabble rather than
an efficient ship’s company.
Each lookout-man paid little or
no attention to the sea ahead,
each successive helmsman kept
letting the ship swing off-course
as he glanced fearfully over his
shoulder, and in my watch the
third-mate showed a marked
fondness for company.
Indeed the herd instinct was
working strongly in all of us,
driving us to seek the protective
companionship that helped to
ease the strain without giving a
sense of security. How was a
man to know that the very man
whose company he sought might
not turn out to be the murderer?
There was no way of knowing
—until it was' too late.
Anderson, who should have
inspired us with bold leadership
and quiet confidence, was as
jumpy as the worst of us. The
only man who could at least
appear unafraid was Captain
Felton. Unarmed and alone he
visited the bridge repeatedly so
that in our admiration for his
courage we forgot how scathing
and objectionable he could be.
It would be incorrect to say
that daylight came as a welcome
relief. Mass fear had taken too
deep a hold to permit any appre-
ciable easing of the strain.
Worse still was that ever-growing
feeling of mutual-distrust. Small,
almost forgotten incidents of the
past were dragged up, magnified
and distorted.
“I wouldn’t trust that big
Swede, Larsen,” someone would
say. “Got a wild sort o’ look
in ’is eye. Remember the night
’e knocked that poor bloody
fireman out cold in Liverpool?
There’d ’ave been murder that
night if we ’adn’t stepped in.”
The incident would be related
and embellished with fine dis-
regard for the fact that the fire-
man had come aboard fighting-
drunk and Larsen had only laid
him out after extreme provoca-
tion. Undoubtedly there was a
wild look in the big Swede’s pale-
blue eyes. But what of it? We
all had it. The fact of the matter
was that we badly wanted one
definite suspect, wanted some-
thing to restore our faith in once-
trusted shipmates.
Sparks’s news that the com-
bined Australian and New
Zealand Navies were on
manoeuvres off the West Aus-
tralian coast came as a severe
blow to us. Quite unreasonably
we felt that the Navy had de-
liberately abandoned us. We
were alone in a deserted stretch
of ocean, shunned like a plague-
ship. One wild suggestion of
abandoning ship gained some
support until it was pointed out
that wherever we went we would
be taking the unknown killer
with us. There was nothing we
could do —nothing but get our
cursed ship into an adequately-
policed port as quickly as
possible.
THE state of our nerves was
vividly demonstrated the
following night. At ten minutes
to midnight the third-mate and
I left the bridge and went below
to call the next watch. A bright
moon was shining directly over-
head and the ship was rolling to
a moderate beam sea. \
“Keep a sharp lookout astern,
young feller,” the Third warned.
“If anyone’s after us he’ll tackle
us from behind.”
I nodded, feeling only slightly
reassured by the sight of the
revolver in his hand. We had
just passed the open galley door
when a slight noise behind us
made us both swing around in
time to see a leaping figure in
white.
I yelled and sprang behind the
Third just as he fired. Two stabs
of fire, two echoing crashes.
Then deathly quiet and realisa-
tion.
The leaping, white-clad figure
was a ventilator. The cursed
thing had been in shadow until
a roll of the ship allowed a shaft
of moonlight to play across it in
a moving beam. The noise prob-
ably came from some small thing
in the galley becoming dislodged
by the roll of the ship.
The Old Man was with us
almost as soon as we realised
what fools we had made of our-
selves, and after listening to the
Third’s stumbling explanations
he took possession of the gun.
“Our murderer might try his
hand again,” he said. “But if I
let you or Anderson carry this
gun about someone will certainly
get killed.”
He flashed a torch around in
search of bullet-holes. The
ventilator was unmarked, but
one bullet had ploughed up the
deck several feet from its base,
and the other had splattered
itself against a beam above the
galley door.
“Not,” he added witheringly,
“that you’re likely to hit the man
you’re aiming at. It’s the
innocent man at the other end
of the ship who’s likely to
suffer.”
TAT ATUR ALLY the .shooting
incident was freely discussed
next morning ; and in the main
we agreed that the captain’s
decision was the right one.
Anderson, however, seemed
quite put-out over the loss of
• the gun. He rearranged - the
night-watches on the six-hour
basis, letting the Third take from
6 p.m. to midnight while he him-
self took midnight to 6 a.m. He
transferred me to his watch, and
not only instructed Stan and me
to stay together always, but
insisted that we must never let
him out of our sight.
Mark that! For that’s how
he worded it. Instead of the
first-mate looking after the two
boys, the boys were to protect
him.
“It just shows,” Stan whis-
pered to me. “Never judge a
man till you’ve seen him in a
tight corner. I’d have backed
Anderson any day. And look at
him now! I’ll admit I’m scared,
but I haven’t asked for a body-
guard. That’s what we are now,
me lad. Anderson’s personal
bodyguard.”
Well, we guarded him faith-
fully that night; and in the first
pale light of dawn he told us
he had reason to believe he
would be the next victim. It was
therefore important that we
remain constantly on the alert,
he said. I’m afraid we weren’t
even politely interested. He’d
fallen so low in our estimations
that we felt he’d be no great loss.
“Give me the Old Man any
day,” Stan said in the security of
our cabin two days later. “He
may be a sarcastic old devil, but
at least he’s got guts.”
Nothing had happened since
the night of the shooting, and the
general opinion was that the
killer was simply waiting for us
to relax our precautions. If so,
we agreed, he had a long wait
ahead of him. We would relax
when the Wellington police had
the killer securely locked up, and
not a moment before. Per-
sonally, I felt I would never
again feel secure in that ship.
And yet we did relax. Slowly,
almost imperceptibly.
T SUPPOSE it was inevitable
that after five untroubled
nights we should begin looking
on our murders as things of the
past, especially when the theory
of moon-madness gained popu-
larity. The four murders had
occurred when the moon was
coming to the full, someone
pointed out. The killer would
not feel the urge again until a
week or so before the next full
moon.
We still retained the double
watches, an officer still accom-
panied the man who called the
reliefs, and certainly no one
loitered about the decks after
dark. But in little ways our
alertness was slipping.
The one man who never
relaxed for a moment was
Anderson. He caught Stan and
me discussing stars on watch
(Continued on page 34)
OLD MEN ARE FACTS
(from “The Ship’s Graveyard, Risdon”)
When I was a boy I heard the sea upstairs in a shell.
I wanted to climb the spiral of sound
and make my life in its white storm:
its great storms were a part of me—
-0 part of me I have not found.
1 spun the globe beneath my hand
and every port was a hive of love;
the fever hid along her mouth:
but I was young with a storm in my head
and over the north lay my cold south.
There is a life in facts: old men are facts:
1 am a fact we all live through.
My face is old like the back of a shell
and I say less than I can tell.
Old men are facts as cabins are that bend the grass,
as funnels are like empty trees.
And yes these ships were washed up here
by fallen seas
to die along the withering shore;
I am an old man in a narrow hut;
these ships are part of me like memories;
and yes these portholes stare out my lame years
and in the dark and closing night
I turn life over in my hand.
Even if I could tell you of that land,
that subtle country of my heart,
I would only say in the windy shade:
old men are part of what they make and what is made.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
sd
. . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAKREKE
No Pads —
No Springs
'The NKO-BARRERS
acts lijje a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BAKKERE DISTRIBUTION CO
(Dept. 3Z), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Write for
Profit
If you have a ready pen you
can be trained to write and sell
articles and short stories in your
spare time. Hundreds of editors
are in constant need of fresh con-
tributions and pay liberally for
good work.
Learn the essential technique by
post —how to write, what to write
about, how to prepare MSS. and
HOW TO SELL THEM. Send
to-day to The Regent Institute
(Dept. 60F), Palace Gate, London,
W.B, England, for a free copy of
“How to Succeed as a Writer,’’
which gives full details —including
the special arrangements for Aus-
tralian students.
By applying: promptly you will
have the opportunity of enrolling
at very moderate terms. Many
students earn the fee several
times over during tuition.
Missing Friends
SPENCER. —Would the next-of-kin of
ERIC HENRY SPENCER (deceased) or
anyone knowing their whereabouts please
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Room 205, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
THELMA KERSHAW, —Would Thelma
Kershaw, daughter of the late WILLIAM
GEORGE KERSHAW, of Hawthorn and
Mornington, Victoria, and grand-daughter
of the late LOUISA ANN KERSHAW, or
any person knowing her whereabouts,
please communicate with COOK &
MoOALLUM, Solicitors, of 422 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
■mmm
<
Mmmm
A coat
you will he proud Ho wear
By special arrangement with the famous
Crusader Mills, Stamina has secured a
specially attractive range of Pure Wool,
Fancy Worsted Sports Coatings. Master-
tailored in the very latest style, as only
Stamina can, these All-Purpose Coats are
now available for your selection.
You will find they are ideal for every
wear everywhere. Specially designed to
give you comfort, they are without doubt
Australia’s outstanding value.
These Stamina All-Purpose Coats are so
made that you should get 5 or 6 years’
wear from them,
ASK FOR
Stamina
oris loa is
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
5.C.2-113
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MARY WORTHINGTON late of Kings
Cross Spinster.—TAKE NOTICE that
AGNES ELIZABETH GURNEY has filed
a Petition No. 4105 of 1950 praying for
a Divorce from JOHN BAYLY GURNEY
on the grounds of his adultery with you
You may apply to the Court to be allowed
to defend A copy of the Petition may be
obtained without charge from MESSRS.
HADDOCKS COHEN & McGUIRE, Solici-
tors, 38 Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUG-
HAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES EXERCISING FEDERAL
JURISDICTION IN MATRIMONIAL
CAUSES.
TO EARL WILLIAM HOIKKA.—TAKE
NOTICE that KATHLEEN HOIKKA has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2649 of
1953 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse fot 3 years and up-
wards , If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney by the 3rd day of February
1954 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. TEAKLE
ORMSBY & FRANCIS, of 3 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy or hire negatives of photo-
graphs of the River Murray in any
locality.—5584.
To get in touch with Elsie F.
Parton, who some 20 years ago wrote
a poem about a cattle-dog named
“Bluey.” (Write direct to Mrs. G. D.
Arsenis, P.O. Box 1006, Salisbury,
Southern Rhodesia.)
Middle-aged gent., Sydney, wants
full board and lodging, own room,
with quiet private family. North side
of Harbor preferred.—5578.
To buy Bulletin postcards, illus-
trative of the work of old-time
Bulletin black-and-white artists, all
or any of the series.—5582.
Middle-aged New Australian wants
position as a ticket-writer, or clerical
situation. Has knowledge of sugar
trade. —5581.
Author, source and remainder of
poem containing these lines: —
Deep in Australian hearts
One memory ne’er departs;
Who kept us free?
Those who in manhood’s pride
Oast sloth and ease aside;
On thy shores fought and died,
Gallipoli!
—5577.
Information Sought
Who were the Fenians?
The Fenians were an Irish organi-
sation formed about 1855 with the
avowed intent of forming a republic
in Ireland. The organisation spread
to America and assumed serious pro-
portions. Arrests of Fenians were
frequent and numerous in Dublin in
1864. The next year the American
Fenians issued a manifesto that
American officers were on their way
to Ireland to form an army of 200,000
men. A large fund was raised in
America, and in 1866 an attempt was
made to invade Canada by a band
of Fenians. They were speedily
suppressed and the ringleader was
arrested. In 1867 a policeman was
, shot when two prisoners were rescued
from a prison van in Manchester,
England. The attackers were arrested,
tried and executed. In the same year
Clerkenwell prison in London was
> blown up in order to rescue some
Fenian prisoners. The explosion
caused the death of some 20 persons
and over 100 were injured. The
Fenians continued to give trouble
until , about 1887, when dissension
amongst them caused the movement
to fade out.
* * * *
What is the purpose of the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organisation ?
The purpose of U.N.E.S.C.O. is to
contribute to peace and security by
promoting collaboration among the
nations through education, science
and culture in order to further uni-
versal respect for justice, for the role
of law and for the human rights and
fundamental freedoms which are
affirmed for the peoples of the world
without distinction of race, sex,
language or religion, by the Charter
of the United Nations. To realise this
purpose U.N.E.S.C.O. (a) collabo-
rates in the work of advancing the
mutual knowledge and understanding
of peoples through all means of mass
communication, ( b) gives fresh im-
pulse to popular education and to
the spread of culture, and (c) main-
tains. increases and diffuses know-
ledge.
* * * *
What provision is made for the
support of the Royah household ?
Provision is made for the support
of the Royal household by the settle-
ment of the Civil List soon after the
commencement of each reign. Ac-
cording to the Civil List Act of
August 1, 1952, the Civil List of the
Queen, after the usual surrender of
hereditary revenues, was fixed at
£475,000, of which £60,000 is appro-
priated to the privy purse of the
Queen, £185,000 for salaries of the
Royal household, £121,800 for house-
hold expenses, £13,200 for alms and
bounty, and £95,000 as supplemen-
tary provision. The Act also provides
for payment of £40,000 a year to the
Duke of Edinburgh. The provision
for other members of the Royal
family is as follows: Queen Elizabeth
(the Queen Mother), £70,000; the
Duke of Gloucester, £35,000; the
Princess Rayal. £6000; the Princess
Margaret, 185000 (to be increased to
£15,000 on marriage).
* * * *
What causes (1) stalactites and (2)
stalagmites ?
(1) Underground water percolating
through limestone is heavily charged
with dissolved carbonate-of-lime,
which usually contains carbon-dioxide.
If the water loses some of the dis-
solved gas by evaporation, some
of the carbonate-of-lime will be
deposited as calcite. When the water
seeps out at points on the roof of
a cave, there is evaporation and
therefore loss of carbon-dioxide; the
resultant film of calcite which forms
is added to continually by succes-
sive drops, and thus it grows down-
wards as an icicle-like pendant or
stalactite. (2) The stalagmite is
formed similarly, the loss of carbon-
dioxide in the drops falling to the
ground causing the upgrowth of
columns of calcite (stalagmites). A
stalagmite may eventually join up
with a stalactite to form a pillar from
floor to roof.
Brief Answers
K.L.: The Foyle prize for poetry
is an annual prize of £2su offered
by W. A. Foyle for the best volume
of verse published in the United
Kingdom. The prize was last awarded
to Roy Campbell for The Poems of
St. John of the Cross, published by
the Harvill Press L.G.: Applica-
tions for Nuffield Foundation
Dominion Travelling Fellowships to
begin in 1954 should be submitted
not later than November 1, 1953,
to the Secretry, Nuffield Foundation
Australian Advisory Committee, care
the Australian National University,
Canberra, A.C.T., from whom copies
of the application-form may be ob-
tained T.S.: “Air Travel” is pub-
lished monthly by the F. H. Johnston
Publishing Cos. Pty., Ltd., 34 Jamie-
son-street, Sydney; price Is. per copy.
S.V.: Thresher sharks are not
uncommonly observed off the Aus-
tralian coast when shoalfish are
present, and are often confused by
casual witnesses with killer-whales.
H.C.: Yes, there is a Mining
and Geological Museum attached to
the N.S.W. Department of Mines.
Its functions include the preparation
and collection of minerals to be used
as teaching aids in schools and other
institutions... .N.W.H.: The South
Africans in Australia by A. G. Moyes,
published by Harrap, London
L.S.E.: Towards an Australian
Drama by Leslie Rees, published by
Angus and Robertson, Sydney
J.C.S.: The British quarterly scientific
journal “Endeavour” was first pub-
lished by Imperial Chemical Indus-
tries, Ltd., in January, 1942. Its
purpose is to provide scientists, espe-
cially those overseas, with news of
the progress of the sciences....
R.W.J.: Connecticut (U.S.A.) is
sometimes referred to as “Nutmeg
State,” because of an alleged prac-
tice on the part of some of its earlier
citizens of manufacturing and selling
wooden nutmegs as genuine C.L.:
Sixteen-string Jack was a noted Eng-
lish highwayman, John Rann, hanged
in 1774, remarkable for his foppery
and wearing a bunch of sixteen
strings at the knees of his breeches.
He is referred to in Boswell’s Johnson .
S.T.P.: Wives and Daughters, the
last and unfinished novel of Mrs.
Gaskell, ran as a serial in the
“Cornhill Magazine,” 1864-66....
J.C.D.: Meg Merrilies was the old
gipsy woman in Walter Scott’s Guy
Mannering. She was the subject of
a poem by Keats, “Old Meg she
was a gipsy.”
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
D.G.: The writing is crude and the
situation is not amusing... .A.M.:
The nag was not even a starter
8.0’H.: Twelve pages all about an.
uneventful motor-drive set us reckon-
ing how long the MS. would have
been if you had walked the distance.
.... F.J.S.: Laughing, brown-skinned
girls with garlands and “truly pic-
turesque scenes” well and truly stereo-
typed R.J.D.: Offer to supply a
romantic story in the form of letters
and extracts from a diary is declined.
L.B.: Two-thirds of it good; but
it falls away at the finish. Try
again... .F.N.8.: Similar fate befell
your “Wine Saloon Courtesan”....
H.T.S.: “Runaway” last seen bolting
for the post-office R.G.: No need
to follow type of stories pub-
lished in The Bulletin ; write
in your own style, and on your own
theme M.T.M.: “This is my first
and, if rejected, last attempt.” Afraid
it’s your last B.McP.: Condense
it, and if Maud still remains, burn it.
L.H.A.: That resurrected wheeze
was put back in a coffin and sent
home R.S.H.: Husband who chal-
lenges his wife’s lover to a duel with
poisoned arrows is a trifle too melo-
dramatic for our liking G. 8.8.:
Pleased to note that John and Jean
finally reached the church 8.C.:
“Do not kill it with unkindly criti-
cism.” No need to; it was a corpse
when it arrived G.T.A.: You no
sooner mentioned the waterhole than
we guessed that the betrayed heroine
would be hauled from its “murky
depths” L.S.H.: The sort of yarn
that seems to go on and on until
the end of time without saying a
thing S.J.: It ended up with being
merely a description of a walk over
the Sydney Harbor Bridge
C.V.R.: An impressive collection ot
archaic words F.F.: The tight-
rope-walker didn’t make the distance.
G.R.A.: What is it —a story or
a testimonial for a seasick cure?
T.D.: Old boy who persisted in
[Contributions should not be
sent personally to members of
the staff, but to the Editor.]
capping every remark with a pun
was heaved through the window
5.A.8.? Not keen on the bad girl
pf the village who redeemed herself
in the eyes of all by her performance
at the church concert EJ.McD.:
In the field of amateur fiction bank-
rupts who commit suicide with prize-
winning lottery-tickets in their pockets
are legion M.S.: It must have
been a fierce struggle to get even
that much on paper R.S.W.:
Your horie-racing story, complete
with bribed jockeys, crooked book-
makers, bankrupt owners and cham-
pion outsiders, would do Nat Gould
proud P.S.: It is not only water
and treacle, but largely indecipherable.
A.J.: “Think of little Helen,
Arthur; your child, my child.” Now,
where have we heard that before?


For Sale
A Money-making opportunity. Start a
business cleaning and repairing radiators.
1 have discovered a way to clean radi-
ators like brand-new. It makes all radi-
ators easy to solder and repair; scale,
rust and blocked radiators easily cleaned.
The material used is cheap, simple and
quick-acting. This information is worth
pounds to any car-owner. Cleaning one
radiator will more than repay your £l.
Address applications, with ONE FOUND
enclosed, to:
K. J. HANSEN,
Wunkar Garage, Wunkar, S.A.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CECIL LASHATELLE formerly of
Earlwood.—TAKE NOTICE that DULCIE
LILLIAN LASHATELLE has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3061 of 1953 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Su-
preme Court King Street Sydney by the
4th December 1953 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from HAROLD
RICH, Solicitor, 188 George Street,
Sydney.-—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN EDWARD BROWNE late of
Ballina in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that NOELA JOYCE
BROWNE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2344 of 1953 on the grounds of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards and if you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 2nd day of December
1953 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from JOHN BARNETT
GREAVES, Solicitor, 160 Caatlereagh
Strget, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OIH 4
OSUUJVAX
, nxm. <,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers.
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE ,
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL.” BRISBANE v
Australia's Richest Goldmine
Molonglo
Consolidated, N.L.
By EL VERDUGO
THE time when the civil
service consoled itself that
if it drew only low pay it
had at least security is a
thing of the past. A glimpse at
the stabilised Federal Budget will
prove this to any ordinary
reader on normal commercial
wages and a month’s notice.
In the past few years the Com-
monwealth service has come to
glitter with bonanzas, and, of.
course, the S(ate services have
used the Commonwealth service
as a rule by which to measure
justice to themselves.
Parliament House, Canberra,
is a fine place to start the survey
of the new rich. The Senate is a
spot in which less work is done
than probably any other place
in the country. If it sits a week
in the month for three months
in the year continuously the
members feel that they need a
long holiday in a sanitarium. To
record the doings and advise
these gentlemen of leisure the
country employs one clerk at
£2400 a year, one clerk-assistant
at £22lo—he gets another £BO
for being clerk to the Joint
House Committee—a second
clerk-assistant at £lBB4, an
Usher of the Black Rod and
clerk of committees at £1636, a
clerk of the records and
assistant-clerk of committees at
£1425, a clerk of the papers and
accountant and a reading-and-
accounts clerk at ah average of
over £2O a week. And there are
10 attendants —one to every six
members —with an average of
£BOO a year.
The House of Representatives
staff costs a bit more to run.
And there is a library which
costs £34,000 a year in salaries
(but it does the main work of
the National Library as well,
and a very good job at that), and
a Parliamentary Reporting Staff
almost in the millionaire class by
pre-war standards principal
reporter at £2lOO a year, second
reporter at £2048, third reporter
at £lBOO, 14 other reporters at an
average of £l7OO a year, plus a
clerk and accountant and
attendant and reader. The
average earnings of these gentle-
men, engaged in what are mainly
1 mechanical recording duties, are
: very much higher than the
; average salaries of the highly-
. skilled Press staffs in the
; galleries, some of them with
national reputations.
Among other new rich at
Parliament House the Parlia-
mentary Standing Committee on
Public Works has a secretary at
£1630 a year. The Committee on
Joint Public Accounts has one
at £1540 a year. The refresh-
ment-room manager gets £1253
and the chef £1330 —out of
session there is little work for
either.
In the Prime Minister’s De-
partment there is a secretary at
£3350, four deputy-secretaries at
an average of just under £2200
a year. A chief economist gets
£2494 a year. (The next 50
employees in the department are
lumped together as too unim-
portant to have their wages
shown separately. Including
librarian, clerk and cadets, they
manage somehow on an average
of £lOBO a year. The estimate
for the department includes
seven private secretaries in
unclassified positions whose pay-
envelopes hold an average of
£1270 a year. They include two
for Dr. Evatt and one for Mr.
Arthur Calwell, his deputy/who,
of course, also has a typiste, like
all other M.P.s, at about £l2 a
Week.
The true position of all those
mentioned above cannot be
ascertained. However, the
estimates provide £4300 for
allowances to “officers perform-
ing duties of a higher class than
their classifications.” And there
is also an item of £8225 to cover
“officers on unattached list
pending suitable vacancies.”
The External Affairs Depart-
ment is a good place for a rising
young man with expensive tastes.
The day when its sole honorary
representative abroad was Mr.
Casey is in the dim distance. Its
cadets in training average over
£l5 a week, and an Ambassador
is really in the money. Sir Percy
Spender has only £3500 a year
salary, but gets a representation-
allowance of £14,335 and an
exchange - allowance on his
salary.
4- +
However, that is not the pick
of the work. The Irish Embassy
seems to provide the maximum
of leisure among jobs available
in the Government’s gift. The
Ambassador, Mr. McGuire, is at
present with Mr. Casey at the
U.N.O. Assembly meeting, while
Eire threatens to refuse to let
him operate at all unless Can-
berra agrees to call De Valera’s
empire “Ireland” in his letters
of credence. He is marked down
in the estimates to get £2500 a
year, with another £2500 “repre-
sentation-allowance,” and of
course free house and other per-
quisites. There is provision to
give him a counsellor and a
secretary who will split up
£2897. Between the three of
them they also divide £4578 for
“special allowances to officers,”
£3OO “allowances to officers per-,
forming duties of a higher class”
and £1431 “exchange on
salaries.” But, apart from the
complication that there doesn’t ,
seem to be any Embassy at all ]
for the moment, there is an offset ;
amount of £3608 “estimated to
remain unexpended for positions
vacant or subject to approval by
competent authority.”
Every departmental vote seems
to carry an item in those terms,
which gives an air of delightful
uncertainty, not to say mystery,
to total figures. In the High
Commissioner’s Office in
London no less than £97,909 is
deducted from a total vote of
£249,555 in respect of an entry
of this sort. It costs us £18,500
in salaries to have a Legation in
Israel in which three officers
apparently draw about £17,500
in salaries, special allowances,
representation-allowance and ex-
change, And while it costs us
only £lB,OOO in pay to maintain
an Embassy in Western Ger-
many, with which we have con-
siderable trade, and £26,000 to
keep up our status in Paris and
£13,200 for Italy, the gross pay
vote for the Embassy at Mos-
cow, where we have no trade
to speak of and there is nowhere
to go, is £50,614 —temporarily
net after deducting the
mysterious “unexpended” item
£40,100.
There are now External
Affairs representatives in some
of the strangest places. Even
New Caledonia (which has a
delightful climate) has a Consul
and a Vice-Consul who draw
£5BOO-odd in salaries and allow-
ances. A Consul in Portuguese
Timor collects £2500 on the same
basis. In many centres there are
expensive Trade Commis-
sioners as well as Ambassadors
and/or Ministers.
The Treasury—the seat of all
economy—including its overseas
branches is to manage this year
with 410 officers drawing an
average of £BOO a year. The
Taxation Department, outside
casual labor, has only 6685
employees. Its gross-salary
estimate is £5,546,000, but
£977,000 is “estimated to remain
unexpended for positions vacant,
etc.” This amount very largely
seems to be intended to cover
casual labor used at assessment-
time.
The Department of the
Interior’s army begins with a
secretary, five assistant-secre-
taries, three directors, an
assistant-secretary and surveyor-
general, two deputy-directors
and a chief surveyor, Australian
Capital Territory. Not one of
these appears to draw less than
£1620 a year. The gross for the
just rewards of the 730
employees who comprise the
head-office administrative staff
this year is £688,000, Among
the more privileged in this bat-
talion are 185 “surveyors and
cadet-surveyors, draftsmen and
cadet - draftsmen, computers,
architects, accountants, botanists,
transport - manager, assistant-
superintendent parks and
gardens, land-settlement officers,
field-investigation officers, leas-
ing officers, property supervisors
and librarians” on an average
pay of a little over £2O a week.
That department, however, is
scarcely worth attention beside
that fine Socialistic enterprise
the Department of Works. It
has a director-general at £3350,
a deputy - director - general at
£3lOO, two assistant-director-
generals at £2550, a director of
engineering at £2742, a director
of architecture at £2596, and
105 “chief engineers, engineers,
chief architect, architects, drafts-
men and other technical officers,”
average £1570.
Ten others, including some
inspectors and a training-officer.
draw £1159 average a year. A
director of finance gets £2246,
four “assistant - finance - chief-
officer, finance officer and inspec-
tors” average £l5OO, and 45
clerks, cadet personnel officers
and a librarian in charge average
£llOO. At its central office the
department has 126 employees
getting over £l5OO a year. But
this is not all. It has a director
of works in each State, New
Guinea, Northern Territory and
Australian Capital Territory at
salaries ranging from £2240 to
£2686, plus deputy-directors in
some of them at round the
£2OOO-mark. The average for its
1939 employee's is over £lOOO a
year.
Even the Civil Aviation De-
partment cannot lick that list. Its
2737 employees gross £2,669,751
this year, and it does as well as
any in maintaining handsome
higher brackets, viz, one director
at £3100; three assistant-
directors-general at an average of
£2192; five “directors, head-
office,” average £2160; seven
“directors, regional,” average
£1910; three overseas represen-
tatives, average £1600; and 688
proletarians, ranging from
modellers to engineers whose
lumped pay-envelopes hold
about £1125 a head.
The Customs Department is
about on the same level of opul-
ence, with 2734 employees
marked down to receive exactly
£2,468,000 in remuneration,
including typistes and junior
clerks.
+ +
The Department of Health
achieves a record for the
rewards —43 senior officers less
in status than the director, with
£82,633 a year total. But it
lacks the genius in devising titles
which distinguishes the Depart-
ment of Commerce and Agricul-
ture. This outfit has a secretary
at £3350, two first-assistant-
secretaries at £2200-odd, three
! mere assistant - secretaries at
1 roughly £2OOO each and two
1 “deputy-assistant-secretaries” in
the £l7OO-a-year range. The
flotsam and jetsam, 182 of them,
draw £looo a year. The
branch which handles the Trades
Descriptions Act 1905-50 alone
has more senior employees than
the whole department boasted
before World War II —including
a chief veterinary and fruit in-
spector at £2246 ; dairy expert at
£1998 ; deputy chief vet., £1998 ;
assistant chief vet., £1874; super-
visor fresh-fruit exports, £1724;
and 81 others who divide
£89,220.
After that come the trade-
commissioners. There'are 20 or
so of these in various parts of the
world getting an average of
about £l9OO a year—some as
high as £2l22—plus a number
of “commercial counsellors”
whose salaries rank with those
of trade-commissioners. There
are even more assistant-trade-
commissioners who have to do
on pittances of £l6OO or less.
Mr. Holt’s Department of
Labor and National Service
boasts a secretary at £2850, five
assistant-secretaries at £1950 and
95 “executive and senior admini-
strative officers” averaging
£l4BO.
The Commonwealth Scientific
and Industrial Research Organi-
sation used to be a Cinderella,
but there is nothing like that
about it now. Its Investigations
Branch has 16 “chiefs of divi-
sions,” drawing an average of
£2570. Their 25 assistants earn
an average of £l6BO, and they
have 1348 research and technical
officers and draftsmen on a scale
which works out at £lOBO per
head —many, of course, must get
lots more. Altogether the
organisation has 3495 employees,
and is costing just on £3,000,000
a year for salaries alone.
Defence has blossomed out in
a rash of “controllers” and other
strange panjandrums, including
a “scientific-assistant to defence
scientific adviser” at £1997.
Defence has ceased to enjoy
the right to be pitied for the
meagre pittances paid to its
seniors. The Army has been so
“democratised” that the pay of
all ranks from brigadiers down
to “lance-corporals, privates,
gunners, sappers and drivers,
etc.,” now are lumped together
as a single item. They number
3000 less than last year, and they
average—including the 14,281
from corporals downwards —
£1420 p.a., which is about what a
major-general used to get at the
end of World War 11. Their
total pay is £20,513,000,
The Post Office has 24
employees above £l7OO a year in
its central office alone. It has
38 directors and heads and
assistant-heads of branches on
over £1670 in N. S. Wales,
another 36 in Victoria, 32 round
a £l5OO-a-year average in
Queensland, and about 80 in the
other States who balance out
about £l5OO per head.
The Australian Broadcasting
Commission has one set of 132
employees among which the
highest pay is £2431, and the
average of the 114 in the lowest
stratum £llOO. It has 318 pro-
gramme-officers who among
them draw £322,000 a year, 152
journalists, including juniors and
learners, who average £ll5O,
and 375 members of orchestras,
bands and choruses whose total
is £462,000.
Altogether Australia seems to
be a real goldmine if you can get
into the Commonwealth civil
service. And it will never be
anything else. The public-
service employees have become
so numerous that they are now,
with their families, a deciding
factor in any election. And
since members of Parliament
have virtually joined the public
service themselves, and draw the
salaries of heads of minor de-
partments or senior branches,
there is little chance that their
practical sympathy will ever be
enlisted in favor of economy by
anything short of a world de-
pression. Any member whose
virtue transcends his discretion
may soon find himself without
the letters “M.P.” after his
name.
A critic who points out that
the expenditure on the adminis-
tration of the Northern
Territory, Papua and New
Guinea and the Australian
Capital Territory is more today
—apart from defence and
services provided by specialist
departments—than the whole
expenditure of the Common-
wealth (including defence costs)
a year or two before World
War lis not likely to'be popular
in Parliamentary circles.


A REFINEMENT IN A
GOOD WHISKY IS
BOUQUET
Inhale the bouquet of
McCallum’s. The vapours
are mild but full; truly
indicative of a competently
blended and well matured
Scotch whisky.
\J/
r
fi
the
name
Caliiim
(I)
s
whisky
the
MCI7/4.2
/Wholly
distilled
and blended
in Scotland
SPORTING NOTIONS
The first four horses in
betting-order in the A.J.C.
Epsom Handicap, to be run on
Saturday week, were not pro-
duced at Rosehill last Saturday.
So Tarien remains at the top of
the betting, with Silver Phantom
on the second line, then Carioca
and High Law,
Priory, at Rosehill, galloped
himself right into the picture for
the Metropolitan and is now
equal second - favorite with
Advocate, Carioca remaining at
the top of the table.
Priory’s win at a mile and a
quarter was evidently antici-
pated, because a few days earlier
doubles bookmakers had many
inquiries for the four-year-old
gelding for the Metrop. and he’s
now secofld-favorite.
• • • •
Priory did his job the hard
way, being in the rear of the
field till the serious business
began. He then came late on the
scene with a powerful finish and
won with a little in hand. The
form was impressive, and the
well-raced and successful gelding
could continue the good work.
He has emerged from the
Graduation Stakes’ ranks, N.
Sellwood, who won on Priory,
might have the mount in the
Metrop., in which Priory has a
big pull in the weights with 7.6.
Priory has the Carbine blood
in his make-up, so should see the
mile-and-five-furlongs Metrop.
right out. His sire. Probation
(imp.), won at a mile and a half,
while his grandsire, Trimdon,
Was a noted stayer in England,
and twice won the Ascot Gold
Cup, a real staying test.
Devoted, dam of Priory, was got
by Constant Son (imp.) from
Trois by The Welkin (imp.).
Family lines include stayers
Trivalve and Hall Mark, while
others worth noting are Nuffield
and Magnificent.
• • • •
After odds-on favorite Prince
Morvi was narrowly beaten in
the Rosehill Guineas by the
100-to-l Victorian-owned colt
Silver Hawk, with Callide River
third, the public and critics
attributed the favorite’s defeat to
faulty tactics by A. Thompson,
who had tried to secure an open-
ing at a critical stage of the race.
It didn’t come, but if it had all
would have been well and Prince
Morvi might have won with
something in hand. As it was,
the split-second error of judg-
ment gave what seemed a lucky
win to Silver Hawk.
Silver Hawk is a remarkably
tall racehorse, and one that
should see the Derby mile and
a half right out. His mentor is
veteran Harry Telford, of Phar
Lap fame, and no one can tell
Telford anything about a race-
horse. All he now wants is
success in the rich Derby at
Randwick, and his grey streak
will have proved that the Rose-
hill win was not the fluke it
appeared to be from the public
side of the fence.
Racegoers on the Sydney side
of the Murray know little about
Silver Hawk’s sire, Star of
Baroda (imp.), but the sire is a
well-bred son of Nearco and
Cinnamon by Obliterate from
Buchna by Buchan from Cinna
by Polymelus, and is located at
stud in South Australia. Cinna
also is dam of a famous sire.
Beau Pere (imp.). Nearco wasn’t
defeated in races, and headed the
English winning-sires’ list for
1947-48-49. Cinnamon is a
threequarter sister to Balloch, a
successful sire in New Zealand,
while Buchna was a sister to Mr.
Standfast (imp.), who has sired
the winners of upwards of
£200,000 in stakes. Beau Pere’s
progeny have won more than
that. Adoree, dam of Silver
Hawk, is dam also of Sydney
sprinter Iroquois. A roan, she
is a daughter of Beau Pere
(imp.) from a French-bred mare,
Dorylee by Xandover, a winner
of the French Two Thousand
Guineas.
Dark Fife had an effortless
win in the Auburn Graduation
Stakes at Rosehill, carrying Bst.
He drops to 7.2 in the Metrop.,
and, with his nice pull in the
weights, he could have a show.
He’s by Red Fife (imp.), and
from Pangbourne, a sister to
Snowstream.
Handicapped at 8.7 for the
£lO,OOO Caulfield Cup, to be run
-on October 17, Quite Talk gal-
loped himself into second
favoritism by a brilliant win in
the John F. Feehan Stakes
(w.-f.-a.; one mile) at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. The
majority present were not pre-
pared for the plunge which sent
his price tumbling from 12 to 1
to 9 to 2; he started equal-
favorite with El Sovino.
Quite Talk was having his
second outing after a spell, and
has now come right into
prominence for the Melbourne
Cup also, in which he has 8.8.
A pointer to remember is that
he is a noted mudlarker. He
was at home in the wet Valley
conditions. A five-year-old
horse by Amana from Enfield
“Can you count up to ten?”
Queen, he has won several races
up to a mile-and-five-furlongs.
Noted for their early speed as
two-year-olds, the progeny of
Newtown Wonder (imp.) were
once again in the limelight
when the annual Randwick
trials were staged by the A.J.C.
The Newtown Wonders won
four of the 15 trials, most im-
pressive galloping display being
by Mazooka, who would have
made the fastest time of the
session had his rider, George
Moore, sent him to the winning-
post full of running. The “ready-
made” racehorse was being
eased-up to win his heat by 10
lengths in 49 secs., which was
within a fraction of the best
made during the trials.
Overspin, from the same
stable as Mazooka (T. J.
Smith’s), ran the first of the
Randwick trials in 48f secs., best
of the morning. Like Mazooka,
he’s a Newtown Wonder colt.
Mazooka is from Plover by Mr.
Standfast (imp.), while Overspin
is from Moni Koura hy Golden
Sovereign (imp.), and is a
brother to successful Golden
Apple.
Of the fillies taking part in
these Randwick trials, the best
displays were by Karen and
Seofon; Karen being a Mid-
stream (imp.) filly, and Seofon
a daughter of Newtown Won-
der (imp.). Seofon is to be raced
by a syndicate known as “Mr.
Macquarie,” and could take a
lot of beating in the A.J.C. Gim-
crack Stakes. She cost HOOgns.
at the Randwick yearling sales
last April. Her dam, Vera Cruz,
is by Bullhead (imp.), and she
is a sister to speedy Count
Seven.
Among visitors to Rosehill on
Saturday were K. A. Morrison
(V.R.C.), H. Way (V.A.T.C.),
J. C. Reilly (M.R.C.), secre-
taries of the leading Melbourne
racing clubs, and other officials
of inter-State clubs, who all
closely observed the working of
the doubles tote and the electric
starting-gate. They will report
back to their committees regard-
ing the possible introduction of
the doubles tote, which has
proved such a revenue-getter for
Sydney clubs.
Hydrogen (7 to 4) was an
easy winner over Suncup and
Grey Boots in the Rosehill Hill
Stakes (8i furlongs) last spring.
Darby Munro had the winning
mount. Though he has had
quite a number of rides in this
weight-for-age contest (to be de-
cided again this coming Satur-
day), Munro has won it twice
only, his other success being on
Shannon in 1945, The Hill
Stakes is an event in which the
famous horseman of his day,
James E. Pike, outshone all
rivals. He won the event on
eight occasions.
« * #
The Wallabies were well
beaten 18-8 in the third Test
Early in the game Hennie
Muller, the Springbok captain,
took the ball out of the hands of
“Spanner” Brown, Australian
five-eighth, and passed it to
Rossouw, who scored. This may
have upset the team’s confidence
—and well it might!
Tackling by South African
backs was severe, and their for-
wards dominated the set scrums.
It seems time some of the other
Australian centres were given a
chance in a Test. Gavan Hors-
ley, the Queenslander, who in
the trials in Sydney ploughed
Solomon into the ground every
time Solomon went near him —
which wasn’t often —or Jack
Blomley, if he is fit. Blomiey
has always been a better centre
than Solomon, who is an excel-
lent first-grade player, but no
more. Phipps, the other centre,
had a brief flash of surprising
form in South Africa, but in
recent games has been disap-
pointing.
Dropping Solomon presents
some difficulties, as he is cap-
tain. The captain of a touring
side, probably, is chosen after
taking into consideration other
qualities besides ability on the
field, and, in an amateur code,
this is quite defensible. But,
from the time he came from
G.P.S. into first-grade club foot-
ball, the young chap has been
overboomed. Which is a pity,
for his own sake as much as for
Rugby Union in general. As a
playing captain the durable Nick
Shehadie might have been a
better choice.
South African critic Paul
Irwin, writing in the Sydney
“Daily Telegraph,” puts for-
ward the interesting suggestion
that Cyril Burke should be
switched from half to five-
eighth, leaving the other half,
John Bosler, in that position.
Reason: Burke could drive back
the Springbok forwards and
hard-tackling backs with well-
placed kicks, the only tactics, in
Irwin’s opinion, that will win
the Wallabies another Test.
After its poor showing against
University, Eastern Suburbs
came good in the Sydney Rugby
Union final at the Showground
to beat Manly, 8-5. Manly five-
eighth Clarrie Davis played a
magnificent attacking game, but
the Easts’ defences held. Now
Easts have another go at Uni-
versity in the grand final.
Geelong overran Footscray in
the V.F.L. third semi-final at
M.C.G. by 8.15 to 5.7, and thus
play Collingwood next Saturday
for the 1953 premiership. If
form is any guide it should be
a slashing game. Collingwood
is finishing the season in great
playing condition, and Geelong,
after leading all the way to the
last round, went stale, lost three
or four matches in succession
and on Saturday regained their
earlier form.
It was the first time since it
joined the V.F.L. 20 years ago
that Footscray reached a minor
final game. This season its
young, fast team went early into
second place, lost it only by a
few percentage points to Colling-
wood in the closing rounds,
trounced its old rivals, Essendon,
in the' first semi-final, and so
came through to lose its chance
for a grand final.
On Saturday Footscray
bounced away with its customary
dash, and, in wet and cold con-
ditions and on a greasy ground,
led 3.4-2.7 at half-time, the
scores showing the toughness of
the going for both sides. Then
Geelong* suddenly regaining the
form that had swept them to the
top t of the League, demoralised
Footscray and never looked like
losing.
* * *
For first-class games, a bowler
(Johnston) headed the Australian
tourists’ batting averages (102
runs, av, 102) and a batsman
(Harvey) topped the bowling
(four wickets, av. 10.75). John-
ston’s achievement borders on
the farcical —last man in almost
always, he was dismissed only
once, and towards the end of
the tour there were manoeuvrings
to enable him to retain his aver-
age. Promoted against Scotland,
he hit-up 35 (out).
Harvey actually was the most
successful bat —2040 runs, av.
65. Next-best was Miller (1433,
av. 51). Lindwall did best of
the bowlers —he took most
wickets (85) at the best average
(16.4).-
Harvey was the only one to
make 2000 runs on the tour.
Miller’s total was next-best. In
1948, counting in all games, two
men did so—Bradman (2578)
and Morris (2044). Bradman
topped 2000 on each of his four
tours, and once (on his first trip,
in 1930) he hit over 3000,
another Bradman record.
Warren Bardsley made 2000
three times, in 1909, 1912 and
1921. Macartney got ’em twice,
in 1912 and 1921. (Both missed
on their last trip, 1926.) Others
to score 2000 were Trumper (in
1902), Noble and Armstrong
(1905) and Stan McCabe (1934).
Ponsford, usually also associated
with mammoth scoring, didn’t
reach 2000 on any of his three
tours —highest tally 1911 (in
1934).
There are moves to cast out
W.A. from the Sheffield Shield
fold. The Sandgropers were ad-
mitted in 1947-48 (when they
won, first-up) on a limited pro-
gramme, destination of the
Shield being decided on percent-
ages, a somewhat unsatisfactory
method. Eastern States’ objec-
tions are mainly on monetary
grounds; there’s always a loss
(financial) in sending a team to
Perth. W.A. is bent on staying
in the Shield under the present
arrangement, two games at home
and two away.
* * m
Ray Coleman has been a big
box-office draw at Leichhardt
Stadium for years, but, tipping
the beam at 9st., he fought
better than ever when he de-
cisively defeated South African
negro Panama Flash (8-10) over
12 rounds at that address. The
cullud pusson was inches taller,
with a longer reach, but this did
not bother Coleman, who won
the first three rounds from end
to end, picked up more points in
most others, bar the fourth, and
was leagues ahead at the finish.


Hero to His Model
Artist George Lambert
By JAMES ROBB
f\ LETTER of introduction
/H from Julian Ashton
I enabled me to meet
Lambert soon after his
return to Sydney from England.
Lambert, weary from being
feted and lionised, had retired
for a day to the peace of his
studio. I found him there, one
steamy February morning, in an
old dressing-gown and khaki
shorts, lying upon a couch
puffing lazily at a fat Russian
cigarette. I gave him Ashton’s
note and sat down to await his
verdict.
It came with surprising sud-
denness. With a loud “Huroo! ”
Lambert threw off his gown,
somersaulted *from the couch to
the floor, and seizing my hand
commenced to primp it up and
down.
“Dear old Julian tells me that
you’re a kind of super model,”
he said. “Oh, splendid! Now
I can start on my job. Between
us we can accomplish something
worth while. Think of it, a
model with imagination, plus
George Lambert! What a price-
less combination.”
He set off then on a vigorous
pacing of the studio floor, swing-
ing his arms, shouting, and leap
ing over chairs, full of a boyish
enthusiasm at the prospect of
tackling his “job,”
A man of splendid physique,
he carried himself with the
supple grace of a ballet-dancer.
Determination was stamped on
his lean bronzed face. A
golden - brown beard and
moustache were trimmed to a
pattern resembling that of the
aggressive Captain Kettle. His
eyes were lively with a malicious
humor, like those of a boy plot-
ting a choice bit of devilment.
He had a pleasing voice, but his
cultured English accent was
marred by an occasional Oxford
drawl.
Over a cup of tea we discussed
his design for ,the Port Said War
Memorial, a model of which, in
plaster, he had brought from
London. I was to pose for all
the figures in the new and larger-
scale model, commencing work
on the following morning.
The interview at an end,
Lambert again shook hands, and,
in flawless Lowland Scots, said,
“Ye’re a Scotchman, I
obsairve .. . Aye ~ . Nae doot
ye’ll hae a sense o’ humor, aye?
Man, we’ll hae gr-rand times
taegither.”
And. grand times we did have
during the six months I was with
him.
I would call at his rooms in
Macleay-street every morning,
and from there we walked to the
studio in the Technical College.
Lambert loved those morning
strolls. Something invariably
occurred on the way to amuse
him—the seedy little dosser who
trotted patiently behind us ready
to pounce on the thick cigarette-
bumper when it was flipped from
Lambert’s fingers; or perhaps
the thirsty individual who, hop-
ing for the price of a drink,
addressed Lambert as “Your
Lordship.”
Lambert was passionately fond
of horses, and loved to gallop
for an hour in Centennial Park
before going to the studio. The
splendor of his riding attire
attracted considerable attention
as we walked to the stables. His
coat and breeches were tailored
to his own exacting standards.
Tan Wellington - boots were
brilliant with polish and nickel
spurs glittered in the sun. A cap
of grey tweed and London make
sat on his head at the correct
“horsey” angle, and a silver-
mounted riding-crop was held at
its middle in his right hand. He
favored a brier pipe on these
occasions.
Street-corner loafers looked
forward to our coming. There
was something about Lambert —
his masterful bearing, the chal-
lenge in his eyes, an assumed
arrogance—that bewildered and
irritated them. Their mumbled
remarks anent the glory of his
person amused Lambert; but one
morning a hefty trouble-seeking
larrikin yelled . “Hullo, Sir
George, going fox-hunting?”
Lambert wheeled instantly, went
up to the speaker, and, in a voice
of one correcting a child, said,
“No, my dear Vacuum, I’m not
going fox-hunting. I’m going
bird-nesting. The spurs, you see,
are for climbing the trees. Now,
is there anything else you wish
to know?”
His left fist was clenched
hard, and I expected at any
moment to see it smash against
Robb posing as a satyr for Lambert
the fellow’s face, for Lambert
in his youth had been a boxer of
note. The larrikin’s courage
wilted and he and his com-
panions slunk away. Lambert, as
if dismissing a class of
youngsters, whacked his boot
sharply with the riding-crop,
grinned and swung into step with
me.
“By gad, Robb,” he remarked,
“the fellow had an ugly face. It
had no right to be abroad on a
beautiful morning like this; I
really should have knocked it
off.”
In the studio, each day began
and ended with laughter.
Lambert was a talented enter-
tainer, and, when sure of the
loyalty of his model, would exert
himself to keep the model
amused. He was a remarkable
mimic, a wit and great story-
teller. He had a rich light bari-
tone voice and could sing one
of the classics or a ranting, roar-
ing tavern ballad. His repertoire
of songs, stories and impersona-
tions seemed to be limitless, and
I was treated to a complete
change of programme at every
rest-interval.
Rest-time was announced by
Lambert laying down his tools
and shouting, “Aye, we’ve done
verra weel, demmit, an’ it’s time
tae ,hae a smoke.”
Then, when he had made me
comfortable with cushions and
a cigarette, he disappeared be-
hind a curtain, to emerge a few
moments later in a velvet cloak
and hat as Rembrandt. Another
quick change behind the curtain
and this time he walked towards
me with the voice and man-
nerisms of Bernard Shaw.
His final act for that session
was an impersonation of an old
and very stout prima donna
attempting to portray Margaret
in “Faust.” A blanket served
him as a skirt and an old shirt
made an excellent bodice. A
padding consisting of towels,
newspapers and paint-rags gave
him a generous bosom and
mighty hips. The shiny bald
dome of his head was covered
by a mantilla, which, arranged
in the form of a yashmak, hid
his beard and moustache. He
tottered, wheezing like an
asthmatic octogenarian, to the
centre of the model's throne,
smiled and threw kisses to a
mythical audience, then, with a
rusty soprano, attacked the
“Jewel” song.
\ The funniest item on Lam-
bert’s bill of entertainment was
his impersonation of a prowling
ape. On all fours he padded his
way round the studio, bare feet
and fists thumping on the floor
and his stern bobbing and sway-
ing. He would halt near my
chair, and with his long fingers
slowly comb his
body for imagin-
ary fleas. That
operation over,
he turned to face
me, his bottom
lip distended and
teeth bared in a
simian grin, then
lumbered off
again.
Another rest-
period would be
devoted to anec-
dotes concerning
famous people
Lambert had met
or painted; tales
of his own
student days in
Paris and his
early struggles
and hardships ;
tales of the Chel-
sea Arts Club
and its famous
members.
Those enter-
tainments very
often extended beyond the pre-
scribed fifteen-minutes rest-time.
When I recall those hilarious
days and the numerous interrup-
tions to Lambert’s progress
caused by the laughter which
rendered both of us helpless,
I am amazed at the amount of
work he got through.
Lambert had an extra-
ordinary laugh. In volume, stay-
ing-power and variety of sound-
effects it was the emperor of all
guffaws. I first heard it in the
morning quiet of Macleay-street,
where 1 had told him a humorous
story. At the end of my tale he
halted and commenced to
chuckle quietly, then he suddenly
threw his head back to release
an earsplitting “Ho! Ho! Ho!”
which, when his breath was near
spent, gave way to a kind of
convulsive snorting and gurgling,
a sound, I imagine, like that
made by some prehistoric
monster snoring.
Our walk to the studio that
morning was marked by a
number of these vocal eruptions,
the last one, a tremendous gust
of roars and snorts, taking place
in the courtyard of the college
in the presence of a troop of
startled girl students.
Lambert had a passion for
perfection in everything he did,
whether it was a piece of acting,
the singing of a song or a
creation in plaster or paint. He
devoted as much thought to some
small detail in a plaster model
as he would to a difficult problem
in paint.
The modelling of a miniature
Digger-hat once gave him a lot
of worry. He modelled the hat
from a piece of sheet-brass, then
covered it with plasticine. The
result displeased him, and,
removing the plaster, he re-
modelled the brass with hammer
and pliers. He was annoyed with
his second effort, telling me it
lacked the devil-may-care
“slouch” of the typical Digger's
hat. He stepped back a few
paces and looked at it like a
boxer sizing-up .an opponent.
“You damned lump of irrita-
tion,” he said, “George Lambert
will beat you yet.”
And beat it he did, with
hammer and mallet, to the shape
he desired.
He welcomed obstacles for the
pleasure he derived from over-
powering them. From the model
he demanded perfection in every
pose. It was not sufficient that
a model be endowed with a
superb body. He must be cap-
able of getting into the “skin”
of the character represented, of
being emotionally and physically
“alive” while posing.
A very exhausting pose was
that for the figure of a half-nude
soldier (the foremost figure in
the Memorial group), who drops
to his knees mortally wounded.
My left hand holds a laurel-
wreath against my head, which
has fallen backwards. The right
forearm is forward, the hand
bent back at an excruciating
angle upon the wrist and wide-
spread fingers are clawing at the
air. The neck, arm and
abdominal muscles tensed to give
greater detail.
Lambert viewed the pose from
all angles and was satisfied
“Now, Robb,” he said, “I
want you to expire in as realistic
a manner as possible; think of
the life you have led, you
unorthodox Presbyterian, and
think of what awaits you in the
place you are going to. Can you
register an expression appro-
priate to the occasion?”
I replied that I had no recol-
lection of my exit from' a
previous existence, but that, for
his sake, J would do my best to
leave this one in a convincing
manner. And so, with expres-
sionless eyes and sagging mouth,
and sweating with the pain of
tortured muscles, I passed away,
for the duration of the pose.
Lambert’s method of model-
ling in clay was that of a careful
building-up of all surface form.
Fingernails, eyeballs, etc., were
made separately, then added to
the figure. The simpler process
of suggesting these features by
cutting-out did not appeal to
him.
At the first rest, Lambert,
flushed of face and smiling
‘happily, expressed his gratitude
for my interpretation of the part
of a dying warrior. It was, he
said, “Priceless.” The word
“priceless” was Lambert’s seal of
approval stamped only upon that
which he considered “perfect”—
a subtle bit of humor, a beautiful
lady, a realistic pose, and (there
being no false modesty in his
make-up) certain products of his
own brush and pencil.
Poetry was one of Lambert’s
many interests. He composed a
number of poems, some of them
charming, some in humorous
vein, and a few, impregnated with
a venomous wit, which he dedi-
cated to his enemies.
The subject of a particularly
virulent screed, which he penned
while in a burning rage, was a
servant wench who looked after
his rooms. On his dressing-table
stood a flagon of expensive
eau-de-Cologne with which, each
morning, he anointed his beard
and moustache. He discovered
that the girl had been using the
precious fluid on her own person,
replacing the quantity taken—
with water!
Lambert told me that when he
made the discovery he was, like
the blinded Samson, mad with
rage. There were no pillars in
his house, else he would have
uprooted them and let the edifice
tumble down on the vandal. It
was useless, he said, to scold the
girl, for she had a habit when
spoken to of chewing her tongue
and gazing into vacancy with the
eyes of a wondering cow. He
could express his wrath only in
verse; an Epistle of Hate,
wherein he touched upon her
ancestry, her appearance, habits
and religion. He foretold the
awful doom that awaited
females who dared to lay filthy
fingers on the perfume of the
gods. Having thus got rid of his
spleen, he tore the verse into
small pieces and threw them into
the dustbin.
The, gentle art of making
enemies was a diversion he
cultivated with tremendous zest.
He lured his foeman into a duiel
of words —toyed with him like
a kitten with a mouse, then
annihilated him with rapier
thrusts of wit or a broadside of
choice Billingsgate.
Fresh from one such conquest
he made a chuckling entry to the
studio. “By gad, Robb,” he said,
“I’ve just exterminated my
special bite noire; on the steps
of the Australia , . . squashed
him with beautiful irony , . . left
him writhing like a sick jelly-
fish . . . Wealthy wastrel, dared
to cross swords with me — Me!”
The excitement occasioned by
a wordy skirmish or some form
of severe physical exertion had
an invigorating effect on
Lambert. In action he found a
safety-valve for his tremendous
store of physical and nervous
energy. He entered the studio
one morning like a tornado,
threw off coat and hat and
pitched chairs, tables and easels
into a corner. Whooping like a
savage on the warpath, he
pounced on a set of boxing-
gloves, donned one pair and
threw the other to me.
“Come on, Robb,” he yelled.
“Put ’em up! Huroo! ”
For several rounds we pum-
melled each other unmercifully ;
Lambert was my senior by
twenty years, but he outboxed
me, outpointed me and knocked
me out. In great glee he turned
then to his sculpture, ready, he
said, to do a “wee bit o’ wurrk.”
His “braid Scots,” which he
loved to air in my presence, was
acquired in Glasgow, where he
lived while painting some murals
for an Atlantic liner.
He was an incorrigible jester.
If a social function bored him,
he promptly took charge of
affairs and, with a bit of uncon-
ventional clowning, either
shocked or delighted the gather-
ing. Once, at an overformal
reception in his honor, he turned
to his hostess and, in a voice
choked with sobs, bade her fare-
well. He walked slowly from
the room into the garden and
climbed to the top of a wall. The
puzzled hostess and her guests
rushed outside, and, looking up,
they saw, against a moonlit sky,
the famous artist crouched in an
attitude of deep dejection, his
beard between his knees, head
drooping dolorously. His
mournful attitude was that of a
sorrowing ape cast out from the
tribe.
A connoisseur of humor,
Lambert could appreciate a joke
(if it had a touch of originality)
against himself. He was riding
with some friends one morning
in Centennial Park when one of
the horses kicked over a barrow
of garden refuse. A gardener,
thinking Lambert was the
culprit, shouted “Hey, youse,
come back! Youse with the
coconut ziff!” The new title
bestowed on his famous beard
appealed so much to Lambert
that he decided, after much
laughter and several visits to the
studio mirror, to place it in the
“Priceless” class.
Lambert had an effective
method of dealing with the bands
of idle Philistines who stormed
his studio on busy days and
attempted to carry him off to
some function or other. I
remember a day, a happy pose
and Lambert working like one
inspired. Suddenly the door
flew open and a giggling, chat-
tering crowd swarmed like ants
over the studio. Lambert winked
o Continued on page 34)


Ilf
%
088888
limn
THE ECONOMIC PATTERN.
Through the pattern of the world’s
economy run the warp and weft
of Steam and Electricity, the
most important sources of world
industrial power; and the most
important factor in the production
of Steam, either for generating
electricity or for industrial pro-
cessing, is BABCOCK steam
raising plant, made by the world’s
largest manufacturers of boilers
and boilerhouse equipment.
Makers of
POWER STATION,
INDUSTRIAL and
MARINE BOILERS
and boilerhouse equipment.
BABCOCK
STEAM
RAISINS PLANT
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
Head Office and Works: Regents Park, N.S.W.
Branch Offices in ail States
Complete Steam Raising Plants
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR LAND & MARINE SERVICE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE WOOMERA WEAPONS
Soon now on the Woomera
Range they’ll be further testing
out Britain’s developments in the
atomic line and in guided
missiles things which, said
British Minister for Supply
Duncan Sandys before com-
ing here for a close view of
them, “no piloted aircraft
could hope to outmanoeuvre.”
Obviously, in these develop-
ments, what Britain and the
British-Australian teams on the
spot have been concentrating on
have been weapons planned to
right to some extent the balance
between the offensive and the
defensive, the latter having
some catching-up to do in the
face of the atom-bomb and even
worse threats.
“Scientific and engineering
skill [in Britain],” London
“Daily Mail” has commented on
the coming tests, “has been
applied to research on the
rocket —not as an offensive but
as a defensive weapon—and we
appear to have ranged far ahead
of other nations in our efforts
to find an answer to aerial
attack....
“These astonishing missiles
could seek out and hunt down
enemy bombers. No human
body and no known aircraft
could withstand the stresses
involved in escaping their
twists and turns at enormous
speed
“Since its invention of radar
British science has concentrated
on the fascinating studies of
direction-finding and robot con-
trol. Research has never
slackened. Yet the lay mind
reels a bit at the glimpses of the
world of tomorrow which such
researches offer. What is the
shape of things to come when
we can now control from the
ground the precise movements
of projectiles hurtling through
the air at 2000 miles an hour?
“There are all sorts of stag-
gering possibilities. One is left
with the thought that anything
can happen n0w....,
“But there is, of course, one
frailty to be remembered about
all mechanical contrivances.
They go wrong at times. Or
the other fellow discovers how
to make them go wrong.
“For instance, there was a
time during the last war when
our Backroom Boys discovered
how to ‘bend the beam,’ to the
confusion of the German
bomber-pilots who were depend-
ing on its accuracy to find their
targets.
“Therefore, any assumption
that the development of guided
rockets makes Fighter Com-
mand and its human pilots re-
dundant is baseless. The trouble
with all electronic brains is that
they have no initiative. The
only really independent think-
ing and willing machine is Man.”
London “Times” sees the
coming tests enforcing tremend-
ous changes in both general out-
look and practical application
in all Service branches. Trac-
ing out the developments lead-
ing on to these Woomera tests,
it recalls that in the last war the
Germans produced a radio-con-
trolled glider-bomb which could
be launched from a manned
aircraft once it was within visual
range of the target but still out
of range of the defending anti-
aircraft guns. It was with this
weapon that they destroyed the
new Italian battleship Roma
while she was on her way to
surrender at Malta in 1943. The
importance of this incident for
the future of naval warfare was
hardly recognised at the time,
but no one can now any longer
doubt that the guided missile
will be “one of the decisive
instruments of war,” whether
on sea, on land or in the air:
“Part of the problem of the
guided missile is that it asks
the military, naval and air-force
mind to embrace entirely new
conceptions of space and time.
For this reason it is likely to
prove a much more revolution-
ary development in the prac-
tice of war than inventions such
as the tank, the bomber and the
submarine, for which just as
much was claimed when they
were in their infancy. Those
responsible for the defence of
the country can be forgiven if
they sometimes feel that they
have entered the realms of
science fiction.”
Quoting Mr. Sandys’s state-
ment that, “in addition to mis-
siles fired from the ground or
from ships, we have reached an
advanced stage in the develop-
ment of guided rockets to be
launched from fighter aircraft,”
the “Times” commented that an
effect of this should be to restore
the balance between the bomber
and the fighter.
“Post-war developments have
made the bomber able to fly so
fast at such high altitudes that
the fighter has been in danger
of losing its advantage. With
the aid .of guided missiles it
should largely come back into
its own. But manoeuvrability in
the fighter itself will cease to be
so important when it is armed
with missiles capable of ‘high-
speed twists and turns.’ More
important will be its ability to
reach high altitudes quickly
enough to intercept the raiders
with the guided missiles in its
armament.
“At sea the guided missile
seems likely to reduce the im-
portance of speed in warships.
It may, in fact, revive the value
of the large ship as a base from
which to launch surface-to-air
or, in the case of the aircraft-
carrier, air-to-air missiles. What,
at any rate, is clear is that if
there is any disposition in the
Senior Service still to dispute
the importance of the air arm
in naval warfare it had better
be overcome quickly. Armies
and navies, in the future, will
have as much reason as air
forces to study ‘rocket war-
fare.’ ”
Revived J. Bull
Lately visiting Britain, New
York “Herald Tribune” corres-
pondent Stewart Alsop has
reported on the present condi-
tion of J. Bull in terms more
enthusiastic than anything heard
from an American or anybody
else since J.B. started his tough
fight for recovery at the end of
the war.
“Although it has made few
headlines,” says Alsop, “Britain’s
remarkable economic recovery
is one of the great underlying
facts of the world situation,
“The first thing the visitor to
Britain notices is u general
brightness and cheerfulness.
This first impression is fully con-
firmed by further inquiry. The
plain fact is that Britain is in the
midst of a boom, by any reason-
able definition of that word.
“Unemployment, which was
beginning to worry the Govern-
ment seriously a year ago, is now
virtually non-existent. Profits
are good,, and prosperity general.
The crucial gold and dollar
reserve is up almost three-
quarters of a billion dollars over
a year ago. The production
index, which turned ominously
downward in 1952, has turned
up again. There is a solid respect
for the value of the pound
“Il Tempo,” Rome
Beria: “What a career! A few months ago, No. 2 man.
Now I’m No. 3512. ”
sterling which has not existed
for a long time. Internally, infla-
tion has been almost stopped,
and the pound is holding its own
steadily on the world markets.”
Alsop goes on to examine a
fair piling of clouds looming up,
such as German and Jap com-
petition and the chances of a
slump in the U.S., but he adds
that beneath such clouds on the
horizon, real or potential, the
great central fact of the British
economic recovery remains :
“If this recovery proves real
and permanent—a big if —it will
not only be good news, but also
a great triumph of American
policy. But this triumph of
American policy is also already
creating a new situation which
the American policy-makers
must take fully into account.
“The British —and especially
the leaders of the now greatly
strengthened Conservative party
—have a new sense of self-
confidence, of standing squarely
on their own feet. By the same
token, a most convenient instru-
ment of American policy—
British dependence on American
economic aid—hardly exists any
more.
“In this new situation, any
American tendency to treat
Britain as a mendicant or
satellite —or even as a very junior
partner, whose wishes may be
safely disregarded—will be abso-
lutely fatal to the Anglo-
American alliance.”
By Any Other Name
From the time of the unfor-
tunate affair at Abadan till the
recent lively happenings in
Tehran, overseas Press scribes
were just about unanimous
regarding the name of Persia’s
most tearful of Prime Ministers
in one respect. They agreed that
it smelt. What they couldn't
all agree on was how it should
be spelt.
Thus, London “News
Chronicle” plumped for
“Mossadiq,” the “Daily Express”
stuck to “Mossadeg,” and
Edinburgh “Scotsman” (perhaps
having more time on its hands
or Gaelic in its ink) favored the
longest and most impressive-
looking of all renderings,
“Moussadegh.”
These appear to have had their
respective versions on their own.
Other versions were shared in
such odd combinations as
the “Time s,” “Spectator,”
'“Observer” and Left i; s h
“Tribune” all plumping for
“Moussadek” ; the “Manchester
Guardian” and London “Sunday
Times” accepting “Mussaddiq” ;
London “Economist,” the “New
York Times” and N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” favoring “Mos-
sadegh” ; and such assorted
company as the “Yorkshire
Post” and the London “Daily
Telegraph,” “Time and Tide,”
“Daily Mail,” “Financial
Times,” Leftish “New States-
man” and Communist “Daily
Worker” all spelling it
“Mossadeq.”
But except for the “Financial
Times,” which ends it with a
“y,” they’re all happy about
the name of the weepful one’s
successor. With that exception.
all spell it the same way,
“Zahedl.” They seem to think
it’ll smell better, too.
Rising Nationalism
The general American (and
indeed these days largely
British) view of the disturbed
state of Africa and the Middle
East (including Egypt) is that it
springs from genuine national-
ism, though “it is easily given a
Communist label.”
“The impulse behind it,” de-
clares a London correspondent
of “New York Times,” “is
neither Marxist fervor nor even
obedience to some slogan
launched from Russia. It is a
local product, colored pink, not
red, and it is touched off simply
by resentment against poverty
and people’s insistence upon a
better life.”
An overseas correspondent of
New York “Herald Tribune”
sees the savage Mau Mau revolt
in Kenya, the passive-resistance
movement in South Africa, the
anti-federation agitation in cen-
tral Africa and the demands for
self-rule in the Gold Coast and
Nigeria as all symptoms of the
same thing—“the growing politi-
cal awareness of the African
peoples.”
“It is a bit ironic,” he com-
ments, “that Britain, with a more
liberal colonial policy than the
others, should be having the
most trouble with its African
wards. But the changes that are
taking place in the Gold Coast,
in Nigeria and in the Sudan are
almost certain to generate simi-
lar movements elsewhere. It can
hardly be doubted that the
French, the Portuguese and the
Belgians will also, sooner or
later, have to face a showdown
with African nationalism.
“The eruptions of the past year
have shown that African
nationalism is no longer a
problem that can be shrugged
off lightly. The upsurge is, to
be sure, still spotty and rather
uncorrelated. But despite set-
backs in sections like South
Africa, there can be no doubt
about the trend in black Africa
as a whole. The African, though
still immature in many ways, is
coming of age politically. He
is increasingly restive under
white dominance. And he knows
that in the long run his superi-
ority in numbers will be de-
cisive.”
The general British reaction to
all this appears to be represented
in a London “Time and Tide
comment on one instance, that
“There will be little disposition
[in Britain] to refuse the demand
put forward by Dr. Nkrumah,
Prime Minister of the GoW


T» ft
m
J4z / £ |
gr? ;r;.;. • gar m
S«s«
i*
r»s
W
'I'f*
V
m
- - m
mss®
Concentration on precision
WITH PUMPS OPERATING at
pressures of 30 p.s.i.,and delivery
rates through each hose being
above 200 gallons per minute
(900 litres per minute) the
operation of fuelling requires a
high degree of accuracy.
The trained BP man at the
controls is responsible for moire
than merely opening and clos-
ing control valves. He is in
charge of a powerful machine
and he alone can ensure that it
is suitably controlled to meet
the particular requirements of
various types of aircraft. He is
ready, like all BP Aviation Ser-
vice crews, to act quickly and
with precision.
SERVIEC^r
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD.
(Marketers for Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Coast, for the complete political
independence of his country.”
The Gold Coast will thus become
the first British colony in Africa
to be “freed.”
An odd manifestation (re-
ported in London “Observer”)
occurred in Nyasaland, where
they’re protesting against the
recently-decided federation. The
Nyasas, “formerly on.e of the
most loyal peoples under the
Crown,” imposed a boycott on
Coronation celebrations, so well
organised that it was “95 per
cent, successful.”
Criticised Kinsey
The Rev. Joseph Christie,
S.J., referring in a Westminster
Cathedral sermon to the “objec-
tionable handling of the Kinsey
report by some sections of the
Press,” described this as an
attempt “to transform what was
meant to be a scientific inquiry
into cheap pornography.”
Suggesting that fear of further
deterioration among young
people through misuse of this
kind was responsible for the
opposition to television, he
added:
“We are afraid to be free,
and will continue to be so until
we have learned by experience
the power of public opinion to
curb the Calibans of Grub-
street. What is intended to be a
graceful, lovely, spiritual and
physical fulfilment is being
described in its lowest terms,
lives are being spoiled, vows
broken and the family life of
the nation endangered.
“This is the evil of the sex
profiteer. Let us describe it in
its plainest terms. In order to
indulge the profit-motive the
proprietors of some of our news-
papers are prepared to invade
the sanctuary of young souls
and encourage them to vicious-
ness. Their work can warp
young lives. It is in youth that
the ideals of a nation as well as
its vitality are renewed. Destroy
its freshness and the hopes of
humanity are replaced by
despair. These people have
priced our youth and are selling
them into captivity,
“In us are the power and
morale to resist this degrading
campaign. Much of the power
of these papers depends upon
advertisers. But the advertisers
are speaking to us, and they will
not use a medium which they
know the public resents. In the
past few years a great deal has
been said by politicians about
the evils of an acquisitive
society. They could be invited,
as a test of sincerity, to investi-
gate this form of it. There is
no possibility of a better social
system in a country which has
allowed its youth to be cor-
rupted.
“On the use by ordinary citi-
zens of their influence to sup-
press this disgraceful traffic de-
pends not only the survival of
religion and morality but of
democracy itself.”
Human Starvation
“Almost two-thirds of the
world’s population subsist on a
deficient diet.”
Australians are not among
them.
The findings are from a sur-
vey conducted by the American
Geographical Society. The sur-
vey, a medical geography, also
finds that “the world’s food-pro-
duction appears to be sufficient
to provide food for everyone,”
the main fault being in distri-
bution, though there are other
causes, some of which will not
be overcome easily, if ever.
The survey shows that in
Europe, including the Soviet
Union, only Portugal, Spain,
Italy and East Germany lack
adequate food. In Asia enough
food is available only in Kash-
mir, Nepal, Tibet, Siam, Cam-
bodia and Formosa.
Australia and New Zealand
have adequate diets, as have
Somaliland and Portuguese
Guinea, in Africa, and Canada,
file United States, Uruguay,
Paraguay and two-thirds of
Argentina.
The rest of the world, the
society found, subsisted on “diets
lacking in both energy and
protective or tissue-repairing
values.”
Causes listed include popula-
tion densities, insufficient pur-
chasing power, wastage, social
and economic patterns, religious
and cultural taboos, land tenure,
inefficient farming, and, above
all, the distribution failure.
Various Voices
Field-Marshal Lord Mont-
gomery (at Toronto): “Canada
should lead the Western world,
clinging closely to her Com-
monwealth ties yet joined by a
close bond to Western Europe.
Canada should not be influenced
unduly by other nations,
especially by the great nation of
160 million people lying be-
yond her southern border. She
should assist Nato by helping to
weld the English - speaking
peoples into united bodies. She
is the golden hinge between the
new world and the old.”
French Prime Minister
Laniel: “The State can some-
times be paralysed by privileges
of its own creation.”
Lewis Strauss (chairman of
the American Atomic Energy
Commission): “It is a fallacy to
assume that a stockpile of
atomic weapons in our hands is
in itself any longer a complete
deterrent to aggressive action.”
Tito: “No matter how the
Soviet Union changes its foreign
policy in the direction of im-
proving relations and approach-
ing a settlement of all inter-
national questions by way of
agreement, Yugoslavia will
never return to its previous posi-
tion —that is, to the policy of
co-operating with the Soviet
Union on all questions regard-
less of whether such co-opera-
tion is in the interests of Yugo-
slavia or in harmony with the
desires of a peaceful nation.”
Attlee (in Yugoslavia); “The
absence of rival parties makes
political life rather flat —it is
like a race with one entrant
only.”
Adlai Stevenson (who was
Eisenhower’s rival for the U.S.
Presidency): “We must always
be cautious about confusing
strategy and tactics. In my
journeys since the death of
Stalin I have found virtually
unanimous opinion in the capi-
tals of the world that, while the
tactics have changed, the
strategy has not.”
Lord Wool ton: “I ventured
to remark in a broadcast that I
thought a little more red meat
might help us ; we have got it
now. Perhaps it has helped us ;
at any rate production is up—
and we won the Ashes.”
Len Hutton (when he lost the
toss to Hassett for the fifth suc-
cessive time): “I was tempted
to throw the half-a-crown away,
as I did in the fourth Test at
Leeds, but I thought that was
too much of a good thing for a
Yorkshireman to do twice.”
Adenauer, interviewed. —“I
have always held to the opinion
that the Soviets would become
receptive once they realised that
somehow the cold war has be-
come impossible in face of a
strengthened Europe. They
would become receptive in view
London “Daily Express”
BACK TO WHERE IT ALL STARTED
of their own economic difficul-
ties at home. What worries them
is not fear of the Germans but
fear that they could no longer
wage cold war once Western
Europe were united and strong.
Then they would have to adopt
another policy.”
Sir Harold Nicolson (,speaking
at Oxford to foreign students):
“I think in your lifetime the
Commonwealth will enlarge,
and that quite unexpected people
will join in it, perhaps keeping
their own monarchies, Pos-
sibly Holland and Scandinavia
will come in.”
Harold Watkinson, Parlia-
mentary Secretary to Britain’s
Ministry of Labor and National
Service: “The most important
lesson that we have got to learn
is this: the people who finally
dictate the wage-levels in British
industry are not the employers
or the Government. They are
our foreign customers.”
/. A. Boyd - Carpenter,
Financial Secretary to the British
Treasury, on the same theme:
“If our goods are not the right
goods at the right price and with
the right delivery-dates, custo-
mers will go elsewhere and we
shall not be able to support our-
selves.”
Lord Swinton, Britain’s Sec-
retary of State for Common-
wealth Relations, speaking at
Salisbury, Southern Rhodesia,
on the lately launched Central
African Federation: “I have
never been more sure that a
project was wise and right and
timely ; and I have never known
a plan so thoroughly worked
out. Federation will give a
sound and strong economy,
which is the foundation of all
social services and progress.”
Noted American expert on
Russia, George Kennan : “The
United States should not inter-
fere in Soviet affairs in the sense
of trying to take advantage of
any internal conflict. The weak-
ness of the Soviet system will
catch up with it eventually. We
should remember that interfer-
ence often has effects opposite
from those intended.”
U.S. Eighth Army commander.
General Maxwell Taylor:
“There is no strong feeling here
in Korea that our problems are
over. We must be constantly
alert and ready for a resump-
tion of hostilities in case the
political discussions break down
or the enemy breaches the
terms of the armistice. Every
commander must stress constant
readiness for combat upon our
battle stations throughout this
critical period. There must be
no thought of going home until
permanent peace and stability
have been restored in Korea.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
“Talking Books”
On the subject of talking-books (B.
26/8/’53), the Royal Victorian Institute
for the Blind has had machines in
Australia since 1934, the year in which
they were developed by the American
Foundation for the Blind. Ever since that
year we have obtained and distributed
every model of talking-book produced in
England or America.
We have also our free lending-library
for the use of those Victorian blind
people who cannot read braille or other
raised reading material, and in this
library we have just over 4000 books
available for them. This is, I imagine, by
far the largest library of talking-book
records in Australia, though all States,
through the local blind organisations,
have similar libraries available.
The Victorian institute was successful
in obtaining free postage on such records,
and in Victoria they are also carried free
on the railways.
Talking-books are just like ordinary
gramophone-records, and are reproduced
on special machines. The American
machines revolve at 33 revolutions per
minute and the English at 24 revolutions
per minute. There is a control which
allows a slight variation in these speeds,
but, generally speaking, while the Eng-
lish machine is capable of playing both
American and English records, the
American machine will play only Ameri-
can records.
Since 1934, when the first machine was
received in Australia through the Vic-
torian Institute, many machines have
been distributed. In 1953 alone some
20 machines have been passed on to blind
people, and we have another 42 on order
from England. The latest development
has been that the Lions Club, of Mel-
bourne, raised sufficient funds to pur-
chase 10 machines, and, through the
institute, to place them on loan to blind
people who cannot afford to buy them. —
K. R. Bunn, Superintendent, Royal Vic-
torian Institute for the Blind (Vic.).,
British Commonwealth Development
Lately, a £1,000,000 sterling non-profit-
making “company of Commonwealth
venturers” was launched in London to
help in every possible way any worthy
development ideas from anywhere in the
British Commonwealth.
One of the promoters said “It will have
the spirit, but not the mercenary motives,
of the great companies of the past which
developed the British Empire on private-
enterprise lines.”
The idea of the company doubtless
comes from the two finance corporations
set up in 1945 in Britain to assist in over-
coming, the problems of post-war recon-
struction and development, and which
have done a fine job. These two corpora-
tions, though they had Government
blessing, are private companies with no
official representation on their boards
and having no recourse to public funds.
The new company is another im-
portant step forward, and should lead to
constructive development of industry and
agriculture in all the associated British
nations. That development in turn will
lead to higher living standards.
The project could mean much to Aus-
tralia, particularly in the coming age of
atomic energy.— Kros (S.A.).
Lost Causes
Nostalgic memories were roused when
I read the other day that the Henry
George League of Victoria was to con-
duct its 62nd annual commemoration of
its master. When I first read Progress
and Poverty about 45 years ago I really
felt the millennium was round the corner,
just as I did when I read Major Douglas’s
Social Credit.
George, who was one-time mayor of
New York, propounded the notion that
if all revenue were derived from a single
tax on land the stuff we stand on would
be used for production instead of profit
and all our economic and social problems
would dissolve into thin air ; and he gave
magnificent reasons to support his thesis.
I don’t know whether he was right, as his
principle has never been tried out, any
more than has the major’s ; in fact, most
Governments have gone in the opposite
direction and now tax everything from
beer to toothwash, and have to employ an
army of taxmen to collect it and another
army to fix prices. The price of land in
Melbourne has risen in places from a
farthing a square foot to £lOOO a foot-
frontage, buildings have got taller and
taller and so thin you can almost see
through them, while suburban allotments
in this land of wide-open spaces are
scarcely large enough to swing a cat in.
N All the same, I think Henry was more
“I kept telling y' that fence Wanted repairing .”
fortunate than Marx. Marx has been
tried out, with the result that if the old
boy got out of his grave and turned up
in Russia and started to preach his
doctrine he would land himself in jail.
Like the Rationalist Association, the
League of Nations and the Anti-vivisec-
tion League, the Henry George League
survives because some enthusiast or
other has left it money in perpetuity, so
there will always be a secretary even if
there isn’t a single member. And Henry
is destined to live, if only as an idea,
for ever. There is even a lane named
after him in Melbourne. That is where
the league meets.— Feng-Shui (Vic.).
Art and Politics
The England of Elizabeth I was by no
means unique in having both an authori-
tarian Government and brilliant intellec-
tual or artistic achievement (B. 2/9/’53).
The Inquisition was at its height in 16th-
and 17th-century Spain, yet it was in
those centuries that Spanish letters,
architecture and painting reached their
zenith.
France’s greatest age in literature,
drama and architecture, and one of her
greatest in painting, was the highly
authoritarian reign of Louis XIV, when
the Crown attained a degree of power
greater thah ever before, and the
Huguenots were suppressed in the interest
of religious uniformity.
Germany’s golden age in music,
literature and philosophy (the 18th cen-
tury and first half of the 19th) was a
period of political autocracy. So, to a
large degree, was the time of the Italian
Renaissance.
Freedom of opinion and of political
association are not, as 19th-century
Liberals were fond of asserting, neces-
sarily synonymous with greatness in
letters or the arts.— Terry the Tory
(N.S.W.).
Butter
Though strongly criticised by some
dairymen’s organisations, Sir Arthur
Fadden acted wisely in refusing to in-
crease the price of butter. Any increase
would start strong buyer-resistance, as
well as a demand for a larger margarine
quota.
That would certainly threaten the
dairyman, who has never been as pros-
perous as at present, and who has the
goodwill of the majority of consumers.
The price of land in, perhaps, the
largest dairying area in Australia (the
Richmond River district of N. S. Wales)
has more than doubled in the last ten
years, which is a fair indication oi the
prosperity of dairyfarmers. H. Dann
(N.S.W.).
The Intermediate Certificate
The decision of the Board of
Secondary Studies (N.S.W.) to stick to
the present system for this year’s Inter-
mediate Certificate emphasises the need
for revision of this examination.
Earlier in the year the board
announced that this year’s I.C. papers
wnnld be set extern-
WUUIU UC
ally instead of intern-
ally (i.e., within the
schools) as hitherto.
Immediately a howl
of protest went up
from the Teachers’
Federation. If, as
the federation has
claimed, the internal
papers followed the
same course and
kept to the same
standard as required
should have been
externally, then there
no need for protests.
It should not have
mattered who set the
papers provided the
teachers had been
following the course
set down by the
curriculum.
Obviously they
have not. That
would not have been
a bad thing provided
that they kept up the
standard. One of the
weaknesses of the
old system was that
a rigid adherence to
the syllabus stifled
the individuality of
the teacher. It also
imposed a hardship
on pupils who, for
various reasons,
failed to complete
the syllabus.
Unfortunately, when that weakness
was removed and schools were allowed
to set their own papers, the lazy teacher
came into his own. It didn’t matter if
he couldn’t get through the syllabus, so
he didn’t have the incentive to try. That’s
why the Board of Secondary Studies has
decided to revert to the pre-war system
of setting its own papers.
The decision caught many schools on
the hop, but pupils should not be
penalised because their teachers have not
kept up with the work, and the board’s
postponement of the change for this year
at least is the fairest thing for the pupils.
Still, I hope that the board does some-
thing soon about the Intermediate. If
the examination is not going to be
abolished its standard must be raised.
As it is, its standing has never been
lower. Its syllabus must be more liberal
and must give the teacher scope for his
own methods of teaching. The papers,
while set externally, should be compiled
in such a way that every child will have
an equal chance. And there must be no
premium for the lazy child or the lazy
teacher— Wackford (N.S.W.).
Canada y. Australia
Despite “K.A.S.” (B. 3/6/’53), a good
case might be made for the Canadian
climate. I live only about 300 miles south
of the Canadian border, and have lived
even closer to it. The Canadian winter
frequently spills over on to us.
It seems to me that the essential cause
of Australia’s slower material progress is
a certain unrealism; a philosophy of
passing the buck, of dependence upon
politicians and more than a little of the
“lotus-land complex.” You get away
with it because of a mostly easy climate.
Not so in Canada. A Canadian winter
is one of the great realistic phenomena
of this world. You can’t evade it, you
can’t deny it. You must provide against
it or perish. That natural background
makes for a realistic approach to every
problem. It also makes tough, energetic,
enduring people, and has done so for
about 350 years.
Shakspeare usually has a word for
everything;
the icy fang
And churlish chiding of the winter’s wind,
Which when it bites, and blows upon my
body,
Even till I shrink with cold, I smile and say,
“This is no flattery: these are counsellors
That feelingly persuade me what I am.”
To know what one is is the beginning
of wisdom and of progress.— Ernest S.
Clowes (New York).
Beer or Cement?
It’s eight years since the war ended,
yet in North Queensland we’re still
hampered by lack of basic materials such
as iron, cement, building materials and
piping. On the other hand there seem
to be adequate supplies of southern
bottled beer and items bordering on the
luxury type. Shipping is nearly always
blamed for the shortages, but if unneces-
sary merchandise can be shipped why
is it given preference over the essential
things necessary for the progress of the
State and the Commonwealth? —K. S. S.
(Q-).
Wool and Synthetics
Perhaps A. I. Beeney (B. 2/9/’53) has
outlined the shape of things to come
when he suggests that woolgrowers adopt
standard prices for wool according to
grade.
Present prices aren’t going to stay for
ever, and when they fall there’ll be many
sad hearts both in city and country, be-
cause, after all, we all depend on the
returns to some extent.
But it’s no good trying to make lower
prices acceptable during a period when
the old “16 pence” and “13 and a quarter
pence” sound like a small boy’s night-
mare.
Read together, the remarks of A. 1.
Beeney and of “Dick Turpin” (B.
2/9/’53) on wheat sound much like a
prophecy. If the wheatgrowers can’t
make up their minds harmoniously when
they are doing well, even in the face of
an early fall on the open world market,
what can be expected of the wool people
when the synthetics really do start to
catch up? Will we see graziers’ organisa-
tions fluttering round the skirts of the
Tariff Board, bleating for protection
against plastics and the raw materials
which go to make them? — Karrimba
(N.S.W.).
SMOOTTAT
“Can you put a fancy frame round it?"


Ho other
investment
Guarantees AIL these
advantages
From the three major investment angles a
reasonable return, a certain income, and absolute
security of capital —no other investment available
in Australia today can equal the attractiveness of
the Commonwealth 18th Security Loan.
Income from your investment in the Commonwealth
18th Security Loan is certain and unvarying. The
Commonwealth guarantees that interest at a fixed rate
will be paid regularly every six months for the currency
of the Securities.
This interest is subject to an Income Tax rebate of 27-
in respect of each £1 of interest. This rebate increases
the effective interest yield and, in the case of higher
incomes, does so very considerably. (It will pay you to
consider this angle specifically in relation to your own
income.)
Repayment in full , at maturity, of the face value of your
Securities is guaranteed by the Commonwealth, and the
entire resources of Australia stand behind that guarantee.
«
Money invested in the Commonwealth 18th Security Loan
will help to further the developmental plans of the
Commonwealth and State Governments, These projects,
so fundamental to our economy, require Loan money for
their successful fulfilment. It is directly in the interests
of all Australians to ensure full subscription to the
Commonwealth 18th Security Loan. Lodge your
application now.
INVESTORS MAY SELECT;
1, Commonwealth Bonds or In-
scribed Stock bearing interest at
m.
per annum, issued at par and
maturing on October 15, 1966;
or
2. Commonwealth Bonds or In-
scribed Stock bearing interest at
3°L
per annum, issued at par and
maturing on December 15,
1955.
AN INCOME TAX REBATE of 27-
in each £1 of interest is allowed for
the period during which no Income
Tax is levied under the law of a
State. This rebate increases the
effective interest yield (consider-
ably so in the case of higher-
income bondholders).
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION for the
longer-term issue is £lO of Bonds
or £lOO of Inscribed Stock. Those
who already own £lOO of Inscribed
Stock may increase their holdings
by multiples of £lO. For the short-
term issue the minimum subscrip-
tion is £l,OOO, or multiples thereof,
of Bonds or Inscribed Stock.
10% DEPOSIT will be accepted,
with the balance in either one or
three equal amounts by January
4, 1954.
BANKS, SAVINGS BANKS. MONEY
ORDER POST OFFICES OR
STOCKBROKERS will receive appli-
cations for cash subscriptions. You
have only to fill in one simple
form and lodge a cheque or cash.
Invest NOW in the
COMMONWEALTH
18th Security LOAN
IBSUL
Armaments
All the evidence of reliable
modern authorities (Encyclo-
pedia Britannica, J. F. C.
Fuller’s Armament and History
and F. L. Robertson’s Evolution
of Naval Armament) goes to
establish that the cylindro-
conoidal bullet (B. 16/9/’53)
was unknown until Norton’s
1823 missile, which was im-
proved upon by Greener.
All early patterns were
colloidal, and, in the strictest
sense. Greener’s bullet was
conoidal rather than cylindro-
conoidal. It was “a. ball, oval
in shape, a diameter and a half
in length, with a flat perforated
end in which a plug was in-
serted. Explosion of the charge
drove the plug home, expanded
the bullet, filled the grooves and
prevented windage.
But the original idea was
Norton’s. Robertson says:
“The idea came to him (Norton)
from an examination of the
arrows used by the natives of
southern India with their blow-
tubes : an examination which
revealed that the base of the
arrow was formed of elastic
lotus pith, which by its expan-
sion against the cylindrical sur-
face of the tube, prevented the
escape of air past it.”
Greener’s invention was never
put to practical use; it was re-
jected by the military authori-
ties on the ground that the bullet
was a compound one, although
he received a belated reward of
£lOOO in 1857 “for the first pub-
lic suggestion of the principle of
expansion.” Minie perfected
the first true and entirely suc-
cessful cylindro-conoidal bullet.
—C. L. (Q.).
Guide-dogs
The real problem regarding
the use of guide-dogs for the
blind in N. S. Wales is one that
could well be asked of other
charitable enterprises: To what
extent should an undeniably
worthy cause of great emotional
appeal draw funds for itself, at
the expense of equally or more
worthy causes of less emotional
appeal which might, if the
money went to them, benefit a
greater number of people?
Anyone who has ever raised
money for charities knows that
some degrees of humanity, some
degrees of the animal kingdom
and some classes of illness
arouse a sympathy, at least in
Anglo-Saxon cultures, which
others do not. If we hear of
horses, dogs or cats being ill-
treated we’ll gladly donate to
save them, A good case might
be made out for ill-treated fish
or billygoats, but I doubt if
many people would respond.
Well-meaning persons may
contribute willingly to help the
blind, but try to interest the
same people in the plight of the
deaf and they won’t bite. Blind-
ness has more emotional appeal
than deafness, and when you
add a guide-dog the plus value
of the tail-wagger will make
kind-hearted souls reach for
their cheque-books without a
further thought.
But we should think further.
There are some charities in
Sydney which can appeal by
means of tear-jerking campaigns
and which are able to spend a
“luxury” amount on eligible
people, while others which lack
the same means of soliciting
funds are scratching for half-
pennies.
Generous citizens arranging
staff functions, lending their
cars for picnic outings or making
private donations, would often
increase the benefit of their kind-
nesses if they would make a few
preliminary investigations into
which causes are most in need
of help. In this State and in
Victoria discreet inquiries of this
nature can be made through the
Council of Social Service. —
Enn Kay (N.S.W.).


“Horses for courses, maybe . * «
but my preference is for a
White any course.
WHITE HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
ASK FOR IT BY NAME
El
WH24.52
ASSURANCE
(waih mum
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£190,000,000
Offices 3
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE
and PERTH
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
More Wool Wanted
“R.N.”: Reflecting on the
demand developing for wool,
M. F. Bretnall, of Dalgety’s,
said that world wool-consump-
tion for 1953, estimated at 4175
million pounds (greasy), was 5
per cent, more than was pro-
duced in 1952. All major pro-
ducing countries this season
would show an increase, except
Argentina, where a decline of 13
million pounds was expected,
and U.S. production would be
no bigger for the third succes-
sive season.
With world population esti-
mated to increase by 500 mil-
lion in the next 30 years, and
the sheep population of the
world almost static, the outlook
for wool is staggering. World
wool-production in 1952-53 in-
creased by a mere 200 million
pounds in a total production of
4000 million pounds, and stocks
at the world’s mills a few weeks
ago were virtually down to bare
boards.
The future of wool, said
Bretnall, is clouded only in con-
sequence of inadequate produc-
tion. It will not be secure until
it is produced more abundantly
at a price the world can afford
to pay. There’s an unparalleled
opportunity to wrap the world
in wool. It is a challenge to
the major woolgrowing coun-
tries of the southern hemisphere
to increase production to meet
the needs of the world’s millions.
Crossbred Fowls
“Orp.”: All types of cross-
bred pullets tested at the
C.5.1.R.0. Research Centre at
Werribee (Vic.) proved superior
to their purebred parent-types in
egg - production. Production
records are now available for
five generations covering the fol-
lowing crossbreds: Single
crosses between White Leghorn
cockerels and Australorp hens,
and the reciprocal cross; three-
way crosses obtained by mating
Rhode Island Red cockerels to
crossbred hens from White Leg-
horn and Australorp parents ;
and rotational crosses or “criss-
crosses” obtained by mating
White Leghorn or Australorp
cockerels, alternating the breed
each year, to crossbred hens
from earlier, matings between
these breeds.
During each of the five years,
1948 to 1952, crossbred pullets
produced on the average
approximately 18 more eggs per
bird than the best purebred
flocks from which their parents
had been chosen without special
selection.
The best performance was
recorded in 1952, when the
average production of 83 single-
cross pullets, obtained by mating
two White Leghorn cockerels
with 27 Australorp hens, was
231.6 eggs per bird during the
standard pullet year (from their
first egg to Mar. 31 following).
The average annual production
from flocks of unculled cross-
breds over the five-year period
has been: 216 eggs from
single-cross pullets, 210 from
three-way pullets and 214 from
“criss-cross” pullets.
There were no significant dif-
ferences in production between
the various types of crosses. As
a rule the more productive the
parents the higher the produc-
tion-level of crossbreds. As the
cock normally has about 10
times as many daughters as has
a single hen, the selection of the
sire to be used in crossbreeding
is of the greatest importance.
Hybrid vigor has important
effects in addition to that on egg-
production. It has been observed
at the research centre that hatch-
ability and rearability are better
in crossbred poultry and that
they have a lower mortality-rate
than purebreds.
Bencubbin Wheals
“Triticum”; A census of
wheat varieties in N. S. Wales
last season shows Bencubbin as
still the leader, occupying 38 p.c.
of the area sown. This is an in-
crease of about 4 p.c. over the
previous season, and shows how
good a bag-filler Bencubbin is,
though millers are constantly
urging farmers not to grow it
because of its relatively poor
milling and baking qualities.
Many growers in the better
parts of the wheat-belt were at
first a little afraid of the har-
vesting difficulties posed when
Bencubbin goes down because
of its weak straw. But improve-
ments in harvesting machinery
dispelled that fear.
One of the main reasons why
N.S.W. growers stick to Ben-
cubbin is its ability to yield well
on soil which has lost fertility.
“ Cripes! T' think that some day We might be
surrounded by blocks o' flats!"
This characteristic may even
accentuate the low milling- and
baking-qualities of the grain
produced on such soil.
A Scented Native
“Bon-Yi”: The lemon-scented
verbena of the south Queens-
land coastal scrubs (Backhousia
citriodora ) is practically un-
known, yet its oil is the source
of one of the most valuable per-
fumery ingredients in the world,
ionone, an intense essence-of-
violets. In the essences and
flavoring trades its potent,
lemony odor makes it eagerly
sought.
The tree is found in the Mary
Valley and in the hilly, scrub-
covered slopes of the coastal
ranges round Gympie, Ama-
moor and Imbil. It reaches a
height of 60-80 ft., and is covered
with masses of small, white,
verbenalike flowers during
summer. These fragrant flowers
do not drop off when dead but,
containing the seed-cases, re-
main on the trees till the seeds
ripen. The tree has a heavily-
fissured bark, and the leaves,
which are dotted with oil-sacs,
are to Sin. long, thick and
leathery, with herringbone vein-
ing and a powerful odor of
lemons when crushed.
Leaves and twigs yield oil-of-
citral, up to 97 p.c., the richest
source of this oil, though the
essence and perfumery trades
depend for supplies on the
lemon-grasses of Ceylon, Mala-
bar and the Straits Settlements.
lonone, essence-of-violets, can
be readily extracted from the
oil. This essence is hard to
manufacture synthetically. Cit-
ral-oil is a prime base, and
mixes readily with any other per-
fume without overpowering it,
whereas a closely allied oil,
citronellal, obtained from other
sources, is too persistent in any
mixture.
Young clumps of the trees
on a farm in the Kenilworth
district (Mary Valley) were
slashed and burned, yet within
a year they coppiced to a height
of over 4ft. From the base the
trees send out long trailing vine-
shoots, which send down strong
rootlets every foot or so. Each
segment sends up its shoot and
the whole clump makes vigorous
growth.
The rooted branchlets are
easily grown, and would take on
open sites in its native area,
where many farms are growing
useless shrubs and trees. With
a centrally-situated treatment-
plant, these areas could provide,
after about four years, a con-
tinuity of supply of oil-bearing
leaves. This would guarantee an
economic return for the com-
mercial distillation of the oil.
Upwards of lib. of the oil
can be obtained from lewt. of
leaves even using a bush still.
Markets overseas, among the
perfumery firms of London,
Paris and New York, are
assured, but there must be con-
tinuity of supply.
Fruit-trees
“Big Billy”: Watering is most
important for fruit-trees in the
first summer after planting. See
that the trees are not over-
watered, nor yet underwatered,
Sound practice is to provide a
“basin” to cover the root-spread
and then water to a depth of
Sin. or 6in. One, two or three
such waterings may be given
periodically, according to the
rainfall.
Citrus need more, and in the
hottest weather watering once
a week may be necessary. When
making a “basin” for citrus
leave a barrage of unwetted soil
around the trunk. This will
obviate any early onset of collar-
rot.
In dry districts subject to hot,
driving winds it will be wise to
erect a hessian- or bough-shelter
for the trees. Straw as a surface
mulch is good.
In the following winter weeds
will not be a disadvantage, for
they serve to prevent plant-food
being leached out by winter
rains. If there are long dry
spells in winter some watering,
particularly of citrus, will be
necessary.
Fleas and Worms
“0.R.1.”; D.D.T. won’t kill
lucerne-flea, a pest often asso-
ciated with the red-legged
earth-mite, but it does kill the
Bdellid-mite, an effective enemy
of the lucerne-flea. So D.D.T.
applications can cause a big
increase of lucerne-flea popula-
tions.
Web-worms attack wheat
crops, and in 1949 did serious
damage to pastures in West
Australia. The moths appear in
W.A. about the first week in
April and remain plentiful for
about three weeks. The young
larvse, on hatching from the
eggs, burrow a short distance
into the ground. When fully
grown they are about fin. long,
light to dark brown in color,
with a darker head. The larvae
emerge to cut off a blade of
grass, which is drawn into the
tunnel and devoured. Feeding
is usually finished by the end of
August.
In trials D.D.T. killed the
larvae. Top-dressing of infested
pastures with a 1 per cent.
D.D.T.-super. mixture at the
rate of 901 b. per acre reduced
damage to negligible propor-
tions. The D.D.T.-super. was
applied with a drill in late
summer, i.e., when the pastures
were normally top-dressed.
Super, to which D.D.T. has
been added is novv available
commercially. Attention is
drawn to the untoward effects
of D.D.T. on insects beneficial
to agriculture. Other insects be-
sides those under fire should be
watched carefully when D.D.T.
is being used.
Three-tier Gardening
“Delta”; Popular summer
vegetables such as sweet-corn,
climbing French - beans and
several varieties of squash,
should go straight from the
garden to the kitchen, but many
home-gardeners regretfully ex-
clude them because the space
they require is not available.
This may be overcome by
adopting the system known in
the United States as “thfee-
story gardening,” under which
these three vegetables are grown
on the one plot. They all re-
quire similar conditions a
deep, rich soil, with plenty of
humus, water and sunshine.
A couple of rows of corn are
sown as soon as the soil warms
sufficiently in the spring to ger-
minate the seed, and, when the
corn is well above ground,
climbing-beans are sown close
enough for them to use the
cornstalks for support. The
Kentucky Wonder bean, which
bears its pods over a long period,
is probably the best variety for
this purpose. Close by, on the
sunny side, squash are sown,
and, when the plants commence
to run, the runners are turned
towards the corn, to cover the
ground, shelter it from wind
and prevent the growth of
weeds.
Thus the three crops are of
mutual advantage to one
another, and, apart from the
saving of garden space, they
save the gardener’s time in weed-
ing, hoeing and watering.
Packing Lemons
“Citro”: New method of
packing lemons at the Citrus
Experiment Station (California)
promises to cut down time and
costs.
No grading, wrapping and
packing by hand. A continuous
flow from the grader pours the
lemons unwrapped into card-
board cartons which have been
chemically treated. An electric
vibrator shakes the fruit into


BRAND OF PHENOTHIAZINE
THE MOST EFFICIENT
WORM DRENCH
THE EFFECT OF WORMS OJ#
WOOL PRODUCTION.
WORM FREE
SHEEP
-WEHZM
12 LBS
Wool
LIGHTLY INFESTED
SHEEP
fs
II LBS.
WOOL
HEAVILY INFESTED
SHEEP
msm j
LBS.
WOOL
IT PAYS TO USE 'P HENOVIS
One of a series of advertisements designed
to convey as a simple story the results of
many years of research. Acknowledgment
is made to many research workers whose
results have been published in the Aus-
tralian Veterinary Journal and elsewhere.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
ALL CAPITAL CITIES
ICI
■PHE.20X.3492-
A SELF-CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME.
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION, ETC.
:
THE
HYCEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Approved 6 y N.B.W. Board of Health. Guaranteed.
This self-contained sanitary system gives you the advantage
ot sewerage no matter where your home may be.
NO GERMS... NO EMPTYING... NO ODOURS
NO FLIES... NO WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
The treated sterile sewerage is absorbed into the soil.
: :
ms
ulTf
THE HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY. LTD.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established for 22 years
YOU CAN INSTAL IT!
The simple instruction card
supplied makes it possible for
any handyman to instal a
Hygeia. Write now for free
illustrated pamphlet.
dhf
N.S.W.:
Q’LAND:
Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Q’land). 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Yic.) Pty. Ltd.. 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), 229a Bundle St., Adelaide.
R. P. Mclnerney & Co. Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Hygeia Dissolvenator (Tag.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne,
or Wm. Crosby & Co., 119 Qollins St., Hobart, also Launceston.
DARWIN: G. T. See Kee, Radiolectrix, Knuckey St., Darwin.
Singapore : British and Eastern Ltd., Raffles Place.
N.Z.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley Chambers, Lome
Street, Auckland.
VIC.
S.A.:
W.A.
TAS.
Him
Official Insurance
' Brokers to the
Graziers’ Association
of N.S.W.
have the specialised
knowledge to provide
the best possible
Insurance for the
Man-On-The-Land
/ Why not take advantage of \
\ lumley’s Free Advisory Service)
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS ffi
263 George Street, Sydney. 'Phone BOS3B.
C.M.L. Building, 72 Hunter St., Newcastle. 'Phone B 1810.
87 Woodlark St., Lismore. 'Phone 1962.
ELS. S. IS
a solid pack, and the carton is
then mechanically sealed.
The chemical treatment gives
off a vapor which stops mould
and other fungal growth, and
there is no risk of spoiled fruit
contaminating others.
Pig Feed
“Hortus”; According to
N.S.W. livestock-officer Carse,
the best feeding scheme for pigs
is dry feed in conjunction with
grazing. What’s more, self-
feeders can be used, thereby
reducing labor.
Crushed wheat, 1401b.; meat-
meal, 121b.; ground limestone,
lib.; and coarse salt, lib. is a
very satisfactory dry ration for
general pig-feeding. Meat-meal
should be increased to 201b. for
sows in milk and for suckers
and weaners. Crushed or
cracked grain is better than
whole grain, as the pigs digest it
more readily and completely.
Best results come from finely-
crushed sorghum. It’s more
profitable to have smaller per-
manent pasture-paddocks, as
they can be used alternately by
the pigs and the vacated one can
be spelled, chain-harrowed and
topdressed.
Mobile Workshop
“B.S.”: The N.S.W. Graziers’
Association journal “Muster”
says that a mobile workshop,
worth £4000, has begun a tour
of N.S.W. It is equipped to
service tractors, rotary-hoes, etc.,
and is designed to call and make
repairs on farms, thus sav-
ing the expense of hauling
damaged machines, or those
needing overhaul, to the nearest
town.
Planned by the Dangar Gedye
and Malloch firm, the outfit’s
first programme takes in the
districts of Woodstock, Molong,
Parkes, Condobolin, West Wya-
long, Ganmain, Rannock, Nar-
randera, Leeton and Griffith.
This tour will be followed by
another in northern N.S.W.
Manager of D.G.M.’s tractor
department, E. F. Trist, told
“Muster” that owners of Lanz
or K.L. Bulldogs would be ad-
vised of the outfit s time of visit
where possible the work-
shop would go right out to he
farm itself .
workship carries £ -
wort * of sp '^ res
an X ty -% e °1 iepai ' n l I(l ina
anc * J ’ otar y'h° es > inc s
conversion of tractors to
electric-starting.
The three-ton Austin prime-
mover is lifted with a 22ft. semi-
trailer, on to which a plywood-
and-steel canopy is built. The
unit has comfortable quarters
for the mechanic, equipped with
lights, heater, cupboards, stove,
wardrobes and bed, and with an
in-built water-supply.
Hints for the Farm
“Billjim”: Thinning of root-
crops is easier and most effec-
tive if done early. Start when
plants are 2in. high, first thin-
ning out to an inch apart. This
applies particularly to red-beet,
because the seed-case contains
two or three seeds. Second and
final thinning to about Sin.
should be made at the four-
leaved stage, or when leaves are
6in. high. Thin onions to lin.
apart. Subsequent thinnings to
Sin. may be progressive to cater
for salads, but all thinning
should be completed before
bulbing starts. See that soil is
moist before any thinning is
done and watered again after-
i wards.
“Big Billy”; Cobalt-deficiency
in calves (characterised by loss
of appetite and condition, and
sometimes by scouring) may be
combated by dosing with sfl. oz.
| of a dilute cobalt-sulphate solu-
| tion twice weekly for five weeks.
| Mix solution by dissolving loz.
; of cobalt in a pint of water and
adding Ifl. oz. of this solution
to a gallon of water.
“Quorn”; When pinching out
the tops of broad-beans when
they have started flowering save
the greens. Cooked like spinach,
they make excellent eating.
“Konanda”: Greens from
radish tops make good eating,
but seldom can one have enough
to make a dish, as most people
pick only a few radishes at a
time. Chopped up, radish-tops
are excellent for soup or stew.
“Hortus”; Though anti-tick
serum is saving canine lives, it’s
better to prevent the insects from
causing the trouble. A well-
known cattle-dog breeder says
that, although he is in a bad
tick area, his dogs and pups have
never been affected by ticks.
His preventive is as much
sulphur as will go on a three-
penny bit mixed in the food
once a week.
“Palm”: Poultry-farmers in
this Gosford (N.S.W.) area,
using the a-b ration with older
fowls, have discovered that it
shortens the moulting period,
thereby proving that antibiotics
increase egg-production.
“C.A.A.”; The advice on
seed-packets regarding depth to
sow is only a guide. In very
light soils sow a little deeper
than recommended and in
damp or heavy soils a little
shallower. Most seeds have a
high germinating-capacity, and
for this reason should be sown
thinly and evenly.
PROSPECTS GOOD
Every sign that can be studied
indicates a . strong future
demand for wool, and par-
ticularly for well-classed wool.
To get the best possible return
from his sheep every farmer
who does his own classing
should have “The Bulletin”
Wool Type Card as a guide.
Send 7s. 6d. for one now.


one night. We were leaning on
the. dodger, gazing up at the sky,
so absorbed in our conversation
that we leaped with fright when
he grabbed each of us roughly
by a shoulder. His exact words
don’t matter, but he certainly
gave us a bawling-out.
Stan said mildly “But we
ought to be safe enough up here,
sir.”
“The second-mate was killed
up here,” AnjJerson reminded
him tersely. “While you were
star-gazing I might have been
killed. You’ve been told before
that your sole job on watch is
to keep an eye on me. Under-
stand?”
Very meekly we said “Yes,
sir.”
We carried out our duties
faithfully after that, following"
him about the bridge like a pair >
of watchdogs, night after night
vyithout incident. He rarely
spoke to us, and for our part we
grew to hate him with a hatred
we’d never felt for Captain
Felton. Certainly we disliked the
Old Man intensely, but we could
never regard him with contempt.
More than anything now we
respected him for his outward
indifference to danger. If he was
afraid he at least had the guts
to conceal his fear. Without put-
ting it into words he conveyed
the impression that all danger
was over.
We were only forty-eight
hours’ steaming from Wellington,
when we were abruptly reminded
that it was not over. The night
was dirty enough for anything,
with a blustering wind and a
steep sea coming up from almost
dead astern. Driving scud hid
the stars and frequent rain-
squalls swept along the decks.
Up on the bridge it was dull,
miserable monotony until about
3.30. Anderson had walked out
to the port wing of the bridge,
and Stan and I stood where we
could see him plainly silhouetted
against the sky. Pale moonlight
filtered through the overcast and
for the moment the rain had
stopped. For several minutes
Anderson stood there, looking
fore and aft along the length of
the wallowing ship.
You know how it is up there
on such a night—the subdued
throbbing of the engines under-
foot, the dull thud and hiss of
wave-tops tumbling against the
ship’s side far below and the
moaning of the wind overhead.
There’s a detached eeriness
about it that you don’t really
notice until something brings it
home to you.
The something that brought it
home to us was a despairing,
high-pitched cry of “Help.” It
came from somewhere along the
lower-deck, aft and on our side
of the ship, swept up and dis-
torted by the moaning of the
wind, Stan and I were beside
Anderson before the chilling
echo of the cry had died away. :
Looking down and astern all
three of us saw the falling body
strike the water and vanish
swirling under the counter. <
6 6 JCOLLO W me, boys!”
Anderson barked, and
raced for the ladder.
“Steady, lads. Take it easy,”
he soothed as all three of us
] f nded in a breathles s heap on
the boat-deck. “Keep your
deads and save y° ur wind,
X°/ U P' robabl y need ’em both
be J° re long -”
. ex P ected him to race for
the lower - deck then- Instead he
led us cautiously to the shadow
of No. 1 lifeboat. “Crouch
down here,” he whispered,
“Don’t move and don’t talk, I
“Hell NEVER pay it off!”
may not need you, but if I yell
for help for God’s sake make it
snappy.” His heavy hand rested
on my shoulder for a moment
before he vanished.
We crouched there waiting
until I began to think day would
break before anything happened.
Afterwards I found we were
there less than ten minutes.
From our cramped position we
could see little. In daylight we
would have been able to see the
full length of the boat-deck, from
the door of the captain’s quarters
directly under the bridge to the
after-ladder leading down to the
lower - deck. But darkness
restricted our vision to a short
stretch of wet deck and the
handrails of the ladder.
What, I kept asking myself,
were we waiting for? Why
hadn’t Anderson stopped the
engine and given the alarm of
“man overboard”? And where
was he now? Very cautiously I
edged over till I could feel my
shoulder pressing against Stan s
comforting buL:.
We heard the man coming up
the ladder, caught the dark blur
of his outlined head and
shoulders as he stepped on to the
boat-deck. And then Anderson
dived in the neatest football
tackle I’ve ever seen. His
massive shoulders caught the
man behind the knees, his arms
locked around the legs and both
men crashed heavily to the deck.
“Right-oh, boys,” Anderson
called. “I’ve got him. One of
you give me a hand to get him
on his feet.”
The fall must have knocked
the chap groggy, for Anderson
and Stan had to practically carry
him towards the bridge-ladder
while I followed ineffectually.
“In here,” Anderson said, jerk-
ing his head towards the captain’s
door. “Nip in ahead, young-
’un, and switch on the light,”
I blinked as the bright light
came on. I blinked a lot harder
as Anderson and Stan staggered
in, supporting the limp figure of
Captain Felton.
“On to his bunk,” Anderson
directed ’
He unbuttoned the Old Man’s
coat and withdrew a short,
flexible truncheon.
“Here it is. Home-made ; and
a very handy-looking little
weapon, too. Don’t forget, you
boys, you- both saw where this
came from. Your evidence will
be needed. Hardy, you nip up
to the bridge and take over till
I come up/ Tell ’em all there’s
no danger now. I’ll have to find
the captain’s revolver, and then
lock him in here till the police
take over.”
Captain Felton was sitting up,
cursing the mate and threatening
disciplinary action before we
left, but Anderson motioned me
outside and locked the door.
C*TAN and I were bursting with
suppressed excitement, but
Anderson wouldn’t say anything
until the third-mate came on. He
drew the three of us aside then
and said:
“I’d better explain everything.
The boys deserve to hear it after
the way they’ve stood guard over
me. I’ve known since the morn-
ing you found those bloodstains.
When the Old Man and I bent
down to examine them I saw the
smear of blood on the shoulder
of his coat. He didn’t know Fd
seen it at the time because he
didn’t know it was there. But
later, when he discovered it, he
must have guessed the truth.
“The sight of a bit of blood on
the deck wouldn’t upset any
normal man, but the sight of
fresh blood on someone’s coat
when we were all looking for a
murderer was a vastly different
thing. I’d given myself away,
and there was no doubt in my
mind that I’d be next on his list.
He had to get rid of me before
I talked to the police.”
“But someone else was killed
tonight, sir,” I put in. “Why
■didn’t you stop the ship and
search for him?”
“No one went overboard
tonight. I’ll bet my year’s pay on
that. Who would be hanging
around the after-deck at 3 a.m.?
Captain Felton yelled for help
and tossed a dummy over. Any-
thing, ?, couple of lifebelts stuffed
inside a shirt, would do to fool
us on a dark night. He hoped
I’d dash aft and try to catch him
on the spot while he waited in
some dark corner. But I wasn’t
having any; and anyhow I
wasn’t dead sure about him till
I’d satisfied myself he wasn’t in
his cabin after I left you boys
under the lifeboat.”
When a daylight muster had
poved that no one had disap-
peared during the night Ander-
son fortified himself with a huge
mug of tea and finished his
explanation.
“The Second suspected him,”
he said. “The night he was killed
he called me aside when I handed
over the watch to him at eight
o’clock. He told me he was
practically sure of the killer’s
identity. He seemed hellishly
upset because he kept saying T
know you’ll think I’m crazy, but
you’ve got to believe me!’
“He was gripping my arm and
repeating it when the Old Man
came up the ladder. So instead
of finishing he whispered TTI tell
you when I come off watch.’ He ■
never finished that watch, and
for the life of me I couldn’t
imagine who he’d been hinting
at. Why, I even told the Old
Man about it next day. What a
bloody fool I was!”
6 6TIUT are you sure you’re
right?” the Third asked.
“My God, Anderson, if you’ve
made ,a mistake ...”
“I am right,” Anderson cut in
fiercely. “Damn it, man, I’ve
got to be right. I've been telling
myself that day and night since
I first suspected him. The master
of a vessel can lock one of his
officers up wrongfully and get
away with it, but if the mate
manhandles the master and locks
him up wrongfully he’s finished.
It amounts to mutiny.”
The Third shook his head
glumly and asked “But why
should Felton go around killing
innocent men?”
“I’ll tell you my theory, the
’ only possible one. Felton was
finished with the company. I got
word of that in London. They’d
had it in for him for some time,
and something must have
brought matters to a head
because he was told this would
be his last voyage. He was
always an unscrupulous devil,
and I think he made up his mind
that if he performed some out-
standing service for the company
they’d show their appreciation
by keeping him on. A fair-
weather voyage doesn’t give a
master an opportunity for dis-
playing outstanding ability, so he
had to create a situation. By
subduing a full-scale panic and
squashing a near mutiny without
deviating from his course or
calling in outside help he’d put
the company everlastingly in his
debt. They couldn’t fire a man
with such forceful personality,
/could they?
“So the first three victims went
at suitable intervals. A crack
on the skull with the handy little
weapon I relieved him of, and
then over the sjde. And three
might have been enough. Unfor-
tunately the second-mate saw
something that made him
suspicious; so he made the
fourth.”
Anderson shrugged his big
shoulders and pointed to the
chartroom. “Go in there and
read the log,” he told the Third.
“You’ll find a day-by-day record
of facts in the Old Man’s hand-
writing that would convince any
court in the world that only the
masterful handling and sheer
determination of Captain Felton
saved one of the nastiest situa-
tions in marine history.”
Again Anderson’s big
shoulders lifted. “And you’ll
also find that every damned one
of those entries is initialled by
me.”
a * me> then turned to the
intruders.
“Lydies h’an gennelmen,” he
sa j dj j n imitation of a wax-
works guide, “tyke yer plices
k ’ an follow, me.”
jje marched off quickly, the
crowd in single-file following,
He pointed with a mahlstick to
his paintings on the wall, present-
ing each one with a curt speech
made up of superlatives—
“ Stupendous!” . . . “Unsurpas-
sable! ” . . . “What facility! ”
and so on. The lightning tour
ended at the door, which Lam-
bert, with a flourish, opened wide
an d as the unwanteds passed out,
fi e bade them, with a charming
smile, remember that time to an
artist—a famous artist—' was
very, very precious.
The completion of the
Memorial Group called for a
celebration at the Australia,
where Lambert procured a table
for two in a quiet corner. He
had a busy hour refusing invita-
tions to be seated with the great
ones in law, politics and finance
before sitting down at our own
table to the champagne and the
business of entertaining me. He
was a brilliant host, tireless in his
efforts to make the end of our
studio partnership an occasion
that would remain long in my
memory. An endless stream of
anecdotes and epigrams poured
from him. Directing my atten-
tion to this or that personage in
the room,, he gave me a witty
summary of his or her charac-
teristics while caricaturing them
in pencil upon the back of a
menu-card or envelope,
I never saw Lambert again. In
the end, he - went to the bush
for a much-needed rest, and,
while grooming his favorite
horse, he died suddenly,
Lambert could be brutally out-
spoken at times, and his “blasted
cocksureness”—as one timid
artist phrased it—irritated many
people. He made no effort to
disguise his high appreciation ot
himself. In public he affected
a swashbuckling role, but that
was .a mask to cover a very
sensitive nature,
One saw the real Lambert m
his studio, where he discarded
the motley and became the
artist." Gone then his posturing
and artificialities, submerged m
that of the humble craftsman
with a reverence for his art.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 244
Across
I—His1 —His Honor’s fruit extracts sur-
round the street fair with summer
refreshments. (8)
s—Persian oil port is a wicked one.
(6 >
9 —Witty thrust for the aunt who
is shy. (5)
10 —Postscript about a newspaper
feature in bits, (9)
12—Poetic opposite. (7)
14—Free Klemperer in a place for
drinking and dancing. (7)
16 — Garland is whose territory? (3)
17 — Although having no catalogue in
an indolent manner. (10)
20—Gas grieves the bellicose. (10)
22 —Stags unshipped a label. (3)
25—Give encouragement to listen to
the average of nine and eleven.
(7)
28 — Frank characteristic to conserve
the stubborn. (7)
29 — Musical pace and one can ring.
(9)
30 — Weapon among bears. (5)
1 31 —Churchman mentions a common
I theme of French novels with
| weight. (6)
i 32—Playwright seen to turn back the
i Red Indians, (8)
Down
1 — The French I bite when having
a joke. (7)
2 Dnalg, landg, anldg, gdnla —I
inform Sarah what I’m doing;
and wouldn’t it make you spit?
(8, 5)
3 Creeper shows four why. (3)
4 Trains Lindwall and Larwood. (9)
6 They are out of sight. (5)
7 Flier’s home or a counsellor of
the Greeks in the Trojan War. (6)
8— Brother for Uncle Remus. (4)
11 —Butterfly’s offspring gives hardly
any headaches. (6, 7)
13 —It helps in drafting a sovereign.
(5) ,
15—Fury. (3)
18— cLOth. (9)
19 — Isaac who fiddles with the severe
part of the ship. (5)
21—The night before an apple-
fancier. (3)
23 — Where fishes hide lovesome
things, God wot! (7)
24 — Steamer just about catches the
sound cuts. (6)
26 — -The sunburnt leave the dance. (5)
27 — The ingenuous North American
effort by Kipling. (4)
30 —Cutter noticed a saying was up.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 243


TO BE PUBLISHED ON SEPTEMBER 25th
Bant Singer
YOU’RE WRONG , DELANEY
12s. Od.
A fast-moving crime story from the publishers who discovered
Peter Cheyney.
ORDER FROM YOUR BOOKSELLER NOW
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
THE POWER OF POSITIVE
THINKING
by Norman Vincent Peale
In this new book the well-known
author shows us that an attitude of
mind can change lives, and win suc-
cess, using faith and optimism as
guides to living. Included are ~rules
for developing confidence, examples
of how prayer helps, and a guide to
popularity. 15/6 (post lid.)
HOW TO SELL YOUR WAY
THROUGH LIFE
by Napoleon Hill
Here is “how to sell your personal
Services at top notch prices.” The
famous author says "ability to in-
fluence people without irritating
them is the most profitable art
known to man,” and tells you how
to acquire this art.
26/6 (post lid.)
ANGUS & ROB
89-95 Castiereagh Street, Sydney :
>N LTD.
66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l
BOOKS BY MAIL
1. Sexual Behaviour in the Human Female (Kinsey Report), available Dec. 78/6 posted
i'. Sexual Behaviour in the Human Male (Kinsey Report),, available Oct. 74/- „
3. Sex Questions and Answers (Brown & Kempton) .. .. just arrived. 46/3 „
4. The Psychology of Sex (Havelock Ellis), 2 voK per set £7/10/- ~
And thousands of other titles.
Pan American Publishers Representatives (Aust.), Box 3817, G.P.O. Sydney
Please send by return mail, books marked, for which I enclose a remittance of
£/ / .
NAME
ADDRESS ...
5. The Encyclopedia of Sex Practice (Haire)
6. Bubu of Montparnasse (Charles-Louis Philippe)
7. Girls from Esquire (Various Authors) .. ..
8. Bedside Esquire (Various Authors) ..
9. Clochemerle (Gabriel Chevalller)
Bound Edition .. 14
The Bulletin, “The Lone Hand” and a
number of other periodicals. He also
wrote serials for various papers.
The first of his novels, The Sign of the
Serpent, is a sensational story about
Cornish smugglers and their Australian
descendants. Sally— prized by Norman
Lindsay collectors for its striking cover
—appeared first as a serial in “The
World’s News,” Sydney. It is sub-titled
“The Tale of a Currency Lass” —the
currency lass being the irrepressible Sally,
who wins the heart of her protector, the
Rev. Samuel Marsden—who, like
Governor Macquafie and other real per-
sonages, is mixed with the book’s imagin-
ary characters. A vivid description of
the Hawkesbury floods is given, which are
again referred to in The Governor’s Man,
and there is an account of the first cross-
ing of the Blue Mountains (N.S.W.).
Abbott’s next Bookstall novel —almost
all of his novels were accepted and pub-
lished by A. C. Rowlandson of the N.S.W.
Bookstall Co. —was The Governor’s Man,
set in the days of Bligh. Castle Vane is
a narrative of bushranging in the Upper
Hunter Valley (N.S.W.), the author’s
birthplace. Major Vane, of her
Majesty’s Forces —a bully if ever there
was —is assaulted by one of his soldiers,
who is forced unwillingly to become a
member of a “free company” of organ-
ised outlaws, which reminds the reader
of “The Ring” in William Astley’s stories
of the convict days.
The romantic incidents of Sydney Cove
are connected with the First Fleet and
the founding of Sydney. Governor
Phillip interests himself in the misfortunes
of Mary Mortimer, a prisoner who came
out on the Lady Penrhyn, and her love
for a naval officer, Lieut. Patrick Cart-
wright.
Ensign Colder, the last work to be
accepted by A. C. Rowlandson before he
died, is a series of incidents in the career
of Mr. Patrick Calder, “a subaltern
officer of H.M. Regiment of Foot.” In
a “Red Page” article Abbott said that
Calder had his birth in the disastrous
exploits of two subalterns of the 73rd
Highland Light Infantry, Lieutenants
Macnaughton and Connor, who one
night ran amuck in Pitt-street and slew
a citizen named Holness, who resented
their drunken attentions to his wife. The
story is told at great length in Mac-
quarie’s dispatches to the Secretary of
State for the Colonies.
Among others of Abbott’s books were
Ben Hall, Red O’Shaughnessy and Dog-
nose,' the latter a book for boys; The
King’s School, published for the 100th
birthday of the school at Parramatta
(N.S.W.), where Abbott himself was a
pupil; Out of the Past, a collection of
Bulletin articles ; and The Newcastle
Packets and the Hunter Valley.
In his time Abbott had quite a vogue,
for he was always readable and enter-
taining, and an expert in portraying the
settings of his early Australian stories.
A little book of his that Would be worth
reprinting is William Dumpier, a story
of the navigator for schoolchildren.
W.E.F.
The Curious M. Gide
A Penguin reprint of Andre Gide’s
Strait Is the Gate, his first novel, comes
aptly after the publication of the first
English translation (reviewed on the
“Red Page,” 6/5/’53) of the suppressed
passages from that author’s journal con-
cerning Madame Gide, who was his
cousin and who, by destroying all his
letters, rejected the immortality he would
have conferred upon her.
“A very curious guy was M. Gide,”
is the reviewer’s comment. He was:
and Strait Is the Gate makes him . more
curious than ever with its obviously auto-
biographical content.
The story is placed partly in the sun-
baked country of Provence, which was
his father’s birthplace, and partly in a
grey, austere old Normandy country-
house, Gide’s own home.
The woman he subsequently married
makes flitting entrance. It is chiefly the
story of an earlier love-affair he had
with another cousin, Alissa, which started
when they were children, and it closely
parallels, except for its tragic ending, the
little bits of revelation that come out in
Gide’s journal of his attitude towards
the cousin whom he married.
He was madly in love with Alissa,
thought of her as the core of his exist-
ence and believed that the whole purpose
of his life was to make himself worthy
of her. Her virtue is his inspiration, and
he writes to her about the poets, the
philosophers and thinkers he is studying
in Paris and wants her to share his
interests. Her virtue and his submission
to it underlie every incident in the story.
Andre may have been more ration-
alistic and Alissa more determined by
her Jansenist past—-they both came of a
rigidly Protestant French family—but
Gide believed in her virtue as firmly as
she did. It is only in negative ways
that his manhood and her womanhood
manifest themselves in the story. When
he is at one end of France and she is at
the other her womanhood expresses itself
in passionate appeals to him to come
back, but when he does come back he is
terrified to meet her. Deep down he
knows that she will shelter behind her
virtue and that he will make the old
gesture of submission.
She tries to make him marry her
sister, whom he doesn’t love but who
loves him, and when that fails she takes
to religion and on one of his infrequent
visits he is • horrified to find that all the
great books that he has lent her have
been ousted by religious tracts. He feels
he is being flouted, but when he ex-
presses his opinion of these unphilo-
sophical gentry she praises their simpli-
city, austerity, faith and singleness of
purpose. They have found the truth, so
there is no need for them to go on
seeking ; but poor young M. Gide, now-
in process of becoming a thinker and a
writer, feels, like Socrates, that he is so
far from having found the truth that he
doesn’t even know what is standing be-
tween him and Alissa in the simple
matter of their love for one another.
The rest of the book is an intensely
moving description, told mainly in ex-
tracts from her journal and from
letters, of this conflict; which in the
case of Alissa ends in her death in the
little nursing-home in Paris in which she
has taken refuge.
Picture of o Painter
Flic subject of Siesta, by George Millar
(Heinemann), is, how would a society-
woman feel about a young artist’s nude
study of her being put on exhibition in
a Bond-street gallery? A
At first it is not the society-woman’s
feelings that are consulted. An old
admiral, a friend of the artist’s mother
and of the subject, is shocked by the
picture ; with the energy of a man with
time on his hands, and the Machiavellian
persistence of a born trouble-maker, he
sets out to bring the matter into court,
organising a county committee of
honor, having the young artist expelled
from his club, trying to work the subject’s
husband into indignation.
The wife is most adroitly handled. She
is shown to be as wayward as her hus-
band, and almost uncontrollable when
she is having another baby. When she
is shown the picture, she is fiercely angry,
but not so much with the idea of being
painted, as with being painted in that
way, with those plebeian hands, etc. And
throughout the book the circumstances
of her posing, or not posing, for the
painting are subtly withheld.
Finally, the London art-dealer who
buys the picture and sells it to an
American collector disposes of the old
admiral and the proposed court-action
by having the young painter paint an-
other picture, same body, same pose,
but with a face sufficiently changed to be
unlike the society-woman; confronted
with the picture, the committee of
honor, almost sure it has been tricked,
has to retire beaten.
This clever story is the framework
for a profound study of the painter, his
relations with his mother, with the
woman-artist in London who is his
mistress and admirer, and with the plain
French charwoman-housekeeper who,
when he is chucked out of the apart-
ment of a British Government official in
Paris, keeps him in her attic above it.
He is kind enough to his mother, but
he lets her live in genteel poverty while
he takes her money. He starves home-
less and sleeps under bridges in Paris,
but later when he sees a poor porter in
a hotel who has painted “masterpieces”
in his spare time, he shamelessly picks
up the porter’s paintings of a lifetime for
a fraction of their real worth. He is a
powerful painter himself, yet he is able
to delight in the delicate work of the
porter. He cannot do without his
charwoman-housekeeper, but he main-
tains between them the relationship of
master and servant —it is one of the best
studies of a bohemian artist one has
seen.
George Millar is a Scottish journalist
who has been pretty busy since the war:
two books of his war-adventures. Horned
Pigeon and Maquis; two of his sailing-
trips with his wife, Isabel and the Sea
and A White Boat from England; and
two other novels, My Past Was an Evil
River and Through the Unicorn Gates.
Reviewed Briefly
Railwaymen’s Gallery: Roger Lloyd
(Allen and Unwin). British railways, past
and present, in peace and war; an
amiable and informative account for the
general reader —or the particular reader
who may be interested in this extra-
ordinary subject.
Teach; the Story of Eleanor "Teach”
i Tennant: Nancy Spain (Werner Laurie).
“Teach” has taught tennis to Bing
t Crosby, Charlie Chaplin, Joan Crawford,
J Groucho Marx, Marion Davies, etc.; also
• she has coached Alice Marbles, Pauline
> Betz and Maureen Connolly. The book
> is partly a lively life-story, partly hints
for tennis-players; unusually readable
> both ways.
* * * *
/ Still Haven’t Unpacked: William
Holt (Harrap). Continuation of a brisk
’ and rather breathless autobiography by
a writer chiefly known for his 8.8. C.
broadcasts during the war. Lancashire
childhood ; foreign travel; London in the
blitz ; 8.8. C. anecdotes ;,a surprising and
dolorous visit to the “mystic” Aleister
Crowley ; and an account of a studio in
St. John’s Wood where visiting painters
from France—Lhote, Lorjou, Saint-Saens,
Lurcat, Desnoyef and others —demon-
strated their methods,
* * * *
A Stranger Came to the Farm : Mika
Waltari (Dymock’s). The Finnish
costume-author here abandons his
historical canvases and tells a bleak little
story about a bleak little farm in northern
Finland. It is the story that was much
in vogue in the ’thirties about the
Woman, the Man and the Other
Man, in which everything happened for
the worst. In this one, the brutal husband
is superseded by a farmhand ; the illicit
love without which no such story is
complete blooms in the outside bath-hut.
Then the husband shoots the lover, and
the wife corrects her husband with an
axe.
* * * *
A Shilling for Candles: Josephine Tey
(Peter Davies). A reprint of this 1936
mystery of an English film-star, living in-
cognito in her seaside cottage, found
drowned. The penniless spendthrift she
has picked up as her new house-com-
panion finds everything very hard to
explain; but the bluff chief-constable’s
teenage daughter, after various exciting
adventures with detectives and gipsies,
helps along the solution. This matter-
of-fact little girl is charming; the scenes
of theatricals, hotel-cooks, and society
fortune-tellers have authenticity; and the
villain is honestly kept before the un-
suspecting eye throughout the work.
FLIGHT
Far below, each wave uprears
White claws of foam at the blue sky,
R a ging for a celestial prey;
Then gored with sun-shafts inwardly
Like a wild beast tracked with spears
It plunges headlong, roars and dies away.
Above me in the thin blue air
Of transparent upper sky
Are whirling patterns, dragon-forms
Of bright celestial energy,
Which, like the tensions of despair,
Explode in quivering electric storms.
Two skies, equal in azure calm,
Are given me at this mid-height,
Each lazy with drifting cumulus.
If we were upside down in flight
Serenity would feel no qualm
Could not one’s inner altitude be thus?
N.S.W.
JAMES McAULEY.
LITTLE WHITE FOX
Little white fox, I love you,
And when with limb to limb
We lie while waits the Hunter,
I love your body slim.
Think not that the clover withers,
That thrushes sing to fall,
But let your lips of springtime
Devour and close on all.
They who mate in willows,
Those who dream by the sea.
Make this sweet intermission
Their mind and memory.
Little white fox, I love you,
And when with limb to limb
We lie while halts the Hunter,
I am grateful to him.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


/
The best off two worlds
goes to make
strong Australian
• *IV-W i
\ 1
■
BROWN PAPE
-> . 'a ,
■iff
%
%
m
mm
m
m
■
iSlKisapip*
mMmB
i
--•
Be proud that the paper your parcels
were wrapped in today is Australian-made
Long-fibred softwood pulp from overseas pine, and short-fibred hardwood pulp from
Australia’s Eucalypts, combine their best qualities in Australian-made brown paper.
Long and short fibred pulps, blended in scientifically controlled proportions during
manufacture, result in a high quality, strong and durable brown Kraft Paper.
. . . and not only the paper! The cartons containing your favorite breakfast cereal,
washing powder, toothpaste and digestive tablets . . . the thousand-and-one com-
modities now contained in strong hygienic cartons . . . account for ton-upon-ton of
Australian-made cardboard.
• *
* %
*' ,
■ ■
■
: - ■
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LIMITED
''■ ' "■ /&/’; •. V h ♦
Aikman Street, South Melbourne. McCauley Street, Matravilie, N.S.W.
Makers of Raw Material for the Wrapping and Packaging Trade
