

“THE HOMELAND IN PICTURE AND STORY”
Fifty-two of the illustrations and descriptions which have appeared on this page during
the past twelve months are now available. Write for your free copy to the nearest branch
of B. Seppelt & Sons Ltd., and please mark your envelope:—
“MONUMENTS”
Available from any Australian Office of the House of Seppelt
THE HOUSE OF SEPPELT
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE; Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Box 163, G.P.O. MELBOURNE: Box
BRISBANE: Box 352 E, G.P.O. FREMANTLE:
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL.
88 CANNON ST., LONDON. E.C.4.
2S3E, G.P.O.
Box 64, P.O.
The Bulletin
“GERM- WARFARE CONFESSIONS”
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 74-No. 3852
Wednesday, December 9, 1953
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.5.W.,. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
OINCE the year 1450, in the reign of
James 11, Glasgow has been a centre
of learning, for in that year the University
was founded by Bishop Turnbull, its first
principal. The classes first met in the
crypt of the Cathedral, then in two
other buildings until 1632, when the Old
College was built. Enthusiasm for learn-
ing in those early days is indicated by the
fact that under the Rectorship of Andrew
Hay in the sixteenth century the college
gates were opened to students from 5 a.m.
in winter and from 4 a.m. in summer!
In 1870 the University was transferred
from Old College in the High Street to
the new buildings designed by Sir Gilbert
Scott on Gilmorehill The Old College
was demolished and some of its masonry
was incorporated in the gatehouse of the
new University. The magnificent Bute
Hall, which is 110 feet long and 74 feet
high, was the gift of the late Marquis of
Bute, and is used for graduation pur-
poses and other University functions. It
is open to visitors on application to the
porter.
The main building, in the form of two
quadrangles, has a frontage of 525 feet.
The whole edifice in the early Gothic
style has a 300 feet high tower which is
a prominent feature for miles around.
The various faculties include Science,
Medicine, Law, Engineering and
Theology ; the teaching staff consists of
fifty professors in addition to numerous
lecturers. Today over seven thousand
students attend this great University. It
was here that James Watt, while working
on a model, conceived the idea of a
separate condenser for the steam engine
which proved to be a fundamental dis-
covery. Other famous men who studied
at Glasgow University, to mention but a
few, were Lister, Kelvin, Adam Smith
and William Hunter.
It was the bequest of Dr. William
Hunter in 1783 which formed the nucleus
of the famous Hunterian Museum which
is part of the University. Here may be
seen splendid examples of the work of
Rembrandt, Reynolds, Titian and the
world-famous picture “La Recureuse” by
Chardin. Here, also, are preserved speci-
mens collected by Captain Cook and the
model steam engine on which James
Watt carried out his experiments.
Glasgow University celebrated its fifth
centenary in June, 1951 ; an occasion
which was marked by the visit of his late
Majesty, King George VI, and Queen
Elizabeth.
ON GLASGOW’S GILMOREHILL STANDS ITS MAGNIFICENT UNIVERSITY


The Red Page
PENGUIN ROUSSEAU
The Confessions of Jean-Jacques
Rousseau (Penguins), in a new translation
by J. M. Cohen, who was also the trans-
lator of the Penguin Don Quixote, starts
off with this confident assumption: “I
know my own heart and understand my
fellowman. But lam made unlike any-
one I have ever met: 1 will even venture
to say that I am like no one in the whole
world.”
He then proceeds to show that he is
very like other men except in his extra-
ordinary ability to talk about himself
with disconcerting frankness, even with
regard to what he calls his vilest and most
despicable actions, one of which nagged
at his conscience every day of his life,
even when he was the most-talked-of and
influential man in Europe, whose ideas
were paving the way for the French Revo-
lution. This was the occasion when he
threw the blame for the theft a piece
of ribbon onto a serving-girl in the aristo-
cratic house that employed him as a
young man, though the actual fact was
that he had stolen the ribbon himself
to present it to the girl in order to win
her favors.
The girl was dismissed, presumably, he
thinks, to take up a life of prostitution.
All she said to him was, “Oh, Rousseau,
I thought you were a good fellow. You
make me very sad, but I should not like
to be in your place.” .She was right—
“ The burden has rested till this day on
my conscience and I can affirm that the
desire to some extent to rid myself of it
has greatly contributed to my resolution
of writing these Confessions,” he says.
He was thus utterly unlike Casanova,
with whose more cheerful confessions the
present volume makes an intriguing con-
trast. Casanova wrote his memoirs, not
to rid himself nf an ill-conscience, but to
relieve his boredom. Having reached an
age when for physical reasons he could
not follow his favorite occupation, he
solaced .himself with reminiscence, and his
memoirs have an entirely different flavor.
Eighteenth-century Catholic Vemce, where
Casanova was born, was a very different
place from eighteenth-century Calvinistic
Geneva, which Rousseau ran away from
without escaping the conscience that had
been given him by his parents.
Rousseau relates and describes his
experiences with such extraordinary
verisimilitude that every moment of his
childhood and adolescence Jives along with
its environment, whether the stately homes
of aristocratic ladies, beggars and
wastrels, brothels and seminaries.
After staying with Mme. Warens
—“Mamma”—in Savoy, he went to
Paris, where he formed a connection
with the seamstress Therese le Vasseur,
to whom he was faithful for the rest of
his life, although he didn’t love her. The
five children whom she bore him were
deposited one by one in the Foundling
Hospital.
This was so much the fashion of the
day amongst both the intellectuals and
the gentry that Rousseau does not appear
to have had as much ill-conscience about
it as he did about the theft of a ribbon.
“My third child, therefore,” he says,
“was taken to the Foundling Hospital
like the others, and the next two were
disposed of in the same way, for 1 had
five in all.” And he rationalises it in
this way: “In handing my children over
to the State to educate, for lack of means
to bring them up myself, by destining
them to become workers and peasants
instead of adventurers and fortune-
hunters, I thought I was acting as a
citizen and a father, and looked upon
myself as a member of Plato’s Republic.”
He was chronically unhealthy, had a
distressing weakness which required con-
stant and terribly painful treatment, could
never, for physical reasons, stay in a
room unless the door was open, was
obsessed with every bodily feeling of
comfort or discomfort, was excessively
ill-mannered and bad-tempered, the prey
of every passing emotion of hate, jealousy
or indignation and never for a moment
imagined that his feelings might be the
cause of the feelings he produced in other
people—so much so, that it was almost
impossible for his best friends to make a
friendly gesture without his interpreting
it as a plot against him.
It was the same with his affairs with
women, with regard to which, as he
proudly admits, he was probably the most
unsuccessful man in Europe. If a woman
made a positive gesture towards him he
would throw himself on the floor, weep-
ing, and when she refrained from tramp-
ling on him he felt secretly disappointed.
The last four of the eleven books are
dark with threats of persecution, and
when he left his English exile he was
afraid to go to Germany because he
feared that Hume would follow him,
presumably to kill him, although the
English philosopher was- probably noi:
even thinking of him. When George 111
offered him a pension he resumed the
music-copying by which he had made a
precarious living when he was unknown
and obscure in Paris.
Such was Rousseau’s life, by his own
showing—a life of rhisery, frustration
and misunderstanding; but in that he
was no different from many people. His
confessions are a long lament about his
dreadful feelings, but the thing that differ-
entiated him from other people was the
way those feelings were translated. The
first of his books was a novel, La Nou-
velle Heloise, which launched a literary
revolution ; his second was the Contrat
Social, which, whatever its merits as a
piece of reasoning, produced a social
revolution ; and with his Emile he nearly
landed himself in the Bastille by advo-
cating “natural religion” as a substitute
for Church doctrine. So his self-pity pro-
duced something; most self-pitiers, with
far less occasion for it, only produce self-
pity ; and in that he was certainly different
from other people, though he doesn’t
seem to have known it, —M. <3. S.
Another Cave-book
Since Norbert Casteret first published
Ten Years under the Earth and opened
a new world of beauty and peril in
the deep limestone caverns of France his
ow fl other cave-books have been
getting thinner and thinner; perhaps
basically because there is only one story
to tell, but also because, broadly speak-
ing, only one region is being explored.
One does not hear of underground ex-
ploration in Africa, in America, in India ;
and certainly not in Australia, where the
pursuit of subterranean waters would be
of such extraordinary fascination.
Haroun Tazieff’s Caves of Adventure
(Hamish Hamilton) is very thin indeed;
restricted almost completely to the caves
of Pierre St. Martin in the Pyrenees, of
which we have heard before, and practi-
cally devoted to a single incident, the
death of his companion and leader
Marcel Loubens, who fell when a buckle
gave way in the harness on which he was
being hauled to the surface, and lay un-
conscious for 36 hours before he died.
He was buried in the cave.
It is a pitiful story: but, happening
so simply a few seconds after Loubens
had been talking to his companions, not
exactly a dramatic one, and not enough
in itself to make a book.
However, one likes to hear about this
band of French explorers and adven-
turers whose fellowship extends from the
caverns of the land to the depths of the
ocean, from the volcanoes of Africa to
the ice of the Antarctic: Tazieff himself
will be remembered for his Craters of
Fire, in which he exhibited a strange
passion for sitting alone on the tops of
boiling and exploding mountains;
Georges Lepineux, who explored the
Pierre St. Martin potholes in 1951, joined
Frank Liotard’s expedition to Adelie
Land; and both Tazieff and Jackie
Ertaud (another cave-man) had been to
the Red Sea with the famous underwater
adventurer J. Y. Cousteau . . . and, since
Cousteau has been associated with
Professor Piccard of the balloon and the
bathysphere, all possible explorable
regions on, above and below the earth
are pretty thoroughly covered by this
group.
And if Tazieff’s book is thin, he states
very well, after he has gone on exploring
Pierre St. Martin immediately after the
death of Loubens, what he regards as
“a potholer’s dream”—the significance
and fascination of the craft;
We had brought off a tremendous suc-
cess. For we had really reached the base
of the great limestone mountain-mass, and
were now at the point where, on a gently
inclined plane, it rested on the underlying
carboniferous schist. Almost for certain
from now onwards there would be no more
shafts; only a succession of galleries lead-
ing, very likely, to the Kakouetta gorge,
six kilometres away and another 600 metres
lower down. What a potholer’s dream it
was to enter the heart of a mountain at
the top, and come out again 1200 metres
lower down, having traversed the whole
mountain-mass within! The realisation of
this dream probably lay in front of us.
And yet we had to turn back. Not only
were we leaving-off an intoxicating task
of exploration; we were still confronted
with the exhausting climb back to camp,
and all the hazards of ascent up the
perpendicular shaft.
After more than three days under-
ground, in complete darkness except for
torchlight and an occasional flare as he
took a photograph, after watching
Loubens’s prolonged death-agony, then
helping to bury him and then going on
exploring, Tazieff was more than four
hours dangling in space while being
hauled to the surface—due to defects in
the winch and the precautions that were
being taken to avoid another accident.
If his narrative is regarded not so much
as a book as a long magazine-article
bound into book-form it should have
enough of the, authentic atmosphere to
please connoisseurs of this kind of adven-
ture.
TUNE FOR SWANS
Black swans leaving
Your reedy nest
To sail on the waters
With quiet breast,
While you are far
The grey rat has come
Destroying, despoiling:
Turn again home.
Black swans dipping
Your necks to feed
In the half-lit pastures
Of wavering •v^eed,
While you are far
The marauder has come:
Where is your treasure now?
Turn again home.
N.S.W.
JAMES McAULEY.
Australian Slang
It is a waste of time to challenge Sidney
J. Baker’s qualifications to collect Aus-
tralian slang. There are so many Aus-
tralian literary jobs to be done, and so
few willing to do them, that we should
be grateful to anyone who devotes his
life to one. Blessed is the pioneer who
amasses the huge pile of information;
the professors who titivate his work into
shape draw their lifeblood and their
honoraria from his labors.
But Mr. Baker’s collection of words
and their derivation, however faulty, is
to be preferred to his general ideas on
slang. To him, slang is the noble savage
that must be protected from the degrading
contact of civilisation ; the voiceof the
people which privilege is preventing from
being heard. This is set out in his new
book, Australia Speaks (Shakspeare
Head):
To state the situation in reasonably
blunt terms, the Queen’s English is washed
up... .The Queen’s English, if it ever
amounted to anything, was the exclusive
prerogative of the people of Britain;
more precisely, it was the exclusive pre-
rogative of a small section of those people
When pompous people invoke the
authority of “correct” English or
“standard” English, all they are doing is
peddling their inherited prejudices. They
are peddling cliches.
This is a little shrill for our days and
the Australian people. Mr. Baker takes
his bookmaking method and his attitude
from Henry Mencken, one of the greatest
literary imps of our time. Of German
descent and attacked in America because
of this, Mencken put all his gusto and
comic genius into a war-of-independenco
for the American Language. Mencken’s
air of rakish authority sits sadly on our
Australian general, who has the added
disadvantage of no enemy and no war
I “The English,” “pompous people,” and
those universal adversaries, “they,” are
the dead ducks in the shooting-gallery he
has to substitute for a battlefield.
Mr. Baker states a much better case
when he is considering a Government
ban on syndicated material from over-
seas ;
From such experiences as I have had
in journalism in Australia I rather sus-
pect that if local artists or writers could
produce material equal in quality to that
imported from America —and no one
would assert that the quality is high—they
would get the hearing they feel they
deserve.
In the same way, if Australia develops
a vital speech of its own, it will not
have to crawl to Britain and America for
recognition. It is not the attacks of the
British or the high-minded upon our
slang or strange locutions, but their in-
difference, which annoys Mr. Baker, and
makes even Mencken seem a little ridi-
culous. Indeed, the vigorous pushing of
the Australianism of “The Sentimental
Bloke” created a stage-type of “Aussie”
and left him more open to patronage
than admiration. The English are a
polite people, and great handlers of
humanity ; far from attacking Australian-
ism, they welcomed it, and when an
English Doctor of Music entitled his
Australian travel-book Cobbers, Aus-
tralians felt he was dinkum. But during
World War II an English lyric-writer
overplayed his hand;
Is ’e an Aussie, is ’e, Lizzie?
Is ’e an Aussie, Lizzie, eh?
After this kindly effort to please, many
an Aussie must have reverted to his full
title.
But if we like to study Australian
speech for interesting and amusing forms,
wo shall find plenty of meat in Mr.
Baker’s egg. Australia is not as rich
America in creative slang, such things
“Friday millionaire,” which one heart
from an advertising manager. IV
Baker’s “Winsor knot” for traffic jam
“Falkiner” for ram’s-head shilling; anc
“mud spring” for a doughy dampe
quoted from the glossary to Ernesti
Hill’s The Territory, are among the fe
examples that strike the eye; but all ou
classed by a simple stroke of geniu
“hoop” for jockey. The most consisten
list of good inventions is the prison slan
tabulated by a lifer, “Thirty-Five”
“short-story writer” for forger, and th
well-known “wife-starver” for desertin
husband are good enough; but that th
dock in court should be called “th
lounge”—that is a triumph. A great dea
of this prison slang is not pretty, thoug
it becomes even more lively and evocativ
as it grows dirtier.
Creative slang, the most amusing t
the casual reader, and the most usefu
to the literary guy looking for inspira
tion, is removed from true slang to th
degree in which it explains itself. Ou
brumbies, poddies and ringers are fa
removed from their origins in immediate
thought, and about as likely to be attackec
by “the English” as the Blue Mountains
they really mean something in everyday
speech. An idiom like “I’m a wake-up
to you,” popularised by Roy Rene, looks
like remaining with us for a long time
but there is a great deal of our slang
which seems ugly or over-exclamatory.
“In the nuddy,” for instance, has a greasy
fall upon the ear, and “slasheroo” turns
the mind instantly to hicks from the
sticks; “rough as bags” is excellent, but
“drunk as a bastard” a bit beside the
point; other ugly and semi-obscene terms
do not please the ear that can accommo-
date “whacko,” and even “whacko the
diddle-oh.”
Among Mr. Baker’s many chapters, one
of the most rewarding is that devoted to
“The Crafts.” Here, as in the outback,
the slang or jargon really means some-
thing: “bottle-sighter, bar-charger,
swager, whizzerman, back-up, breaker-
off, can-reclaimer, gut-runner, hat-bumper,
heaver-over, junction-slicker”—they are
all people. “A planker is not a carpen-
ter’s assistant, but a millinery worker.”
Down in Geelong an economist called
DeGaris is inventing terms like “basen-
wice,” or “a unit of currency issued for
the basic week’s work,” and “meniver-
sary,” or monthly version of anniversary ;
though his most alarming contribution
is “debtocracy, debtarchy and debtarchs.”
The crafts and industry generally should
make a many-times-greater study than
Mr, Baker’s few remarks on them ; one
thinks of such phrases as “to snatch it” —-
used of a man who takes his pay and
leaves his employment without giving
notice.
There is a long chapter of Army and
service slang, a great deal of which will
no doubt be forgotten, but which gave
us “go through,” “on the nose,” etc.;
and some consideration of pidgin English
in New Guinea, and the natives’ ability
to speak it backwards to the mystification
of the white man. From a list compiled
by Mr. Holland of Portland Mr. Baker
illustrates “Norfolk Island patois,” in
which “donner-wah-wh-har” means “don't
put on airs,” and “ise-a-hilly” means “I
don’t feel inclined to work”—a “com-
pound of Tahitian and corrupted English
words used still, by the older residents of
Norfolk Island.”
There is also a short survey of Austra-
lianisms in Australian books; an essay
on unparliamentary expressions; and
a consideration of the American influ-
ence, in which an American says the
Americans don’t use “savage” as a verb,
though one thinks one remembers having
seen it used by a woman in the banned
American poem, “The Wild Party.”
The Doll Maker and Other Tales of
the Uncanny: Sarban (Peter Davies).
Sarban is the pseudonym of a writer
who has spent “nearly half his lifetime
in the Near East.” However, in this book
he writes (and very well too) of ghosts
and marvels set against English back-
grounds. The Doll Maker', almost a
short novel, and two short-stories com-
prise the volume. Sarban’s previous
books have chilled some very eminent
critical spines—the tales in this one are,
perhaps, too-easily guessed, or half-
guessed. Nevertheless the story of Niall
Sterne’s fantastic little marionettes and
the fate of those persons whom they
represented ; the yarn of the youngsters
who, exploring a small lake-island, find
it most oddly tenanted ; and that of a
gentleman whose car breaks down on
an old Roman road near a cottage where
he is entertained by circumstantially-
peculiar tenants, should delight readers
who care for this sort of thing.


a*
: /
m *
wsm
mw4mm
mm
m
m
mm
wmmmm
; n
iii
Ilf:®-
m y:
1;
m
mg -
Leather Hat Case . Price only £7/15/-
A matching hat or utility case; locks and centre clip.
£2/15/-.
Lightweight Leather Blouse Cases
Smooth finish, round edge, steel frame, cloth lined, with
pocket in lid, beautiful English rustless locks. Colors Brown
and Blue: Size 22in., £9/3/-. 24in., £9/19/9. 26in., £lO/16/6.
Travel in fashion,
t *
■r
4 -- : • ■'
mmsiim
S&S»Ss
:•■• :: : .-
MMi i Ip |lll
iiiU ' ■
secure
with Solid Leather
outstanding in rich
Leather, the creator of ultimate beauty in craftsmanship, has the outstanding
appeal in toughness, colour and design. Reds, fawns, blues and browns help to
make a most comprehensive range of stylish leather goods. Globe trotter or
holiday maker, you’ll find the piece to suit your needs in our Ist Floor Travel
Goods Department.
A
’TRUTH IN •ADVERT&ING
ntnony
Leather Travel Bag
Of top grain hide, with best
quality slide fastener, gussetted
outside pocket and fully cloth
lined. 14in., 54/3, 16in. 59/9.
r - -
S88t:
m
Calf Travel Set, 89 /-
Genuine calf, with crocodile or
lizard graining, containing mirror,
hairbrush, razor blade, shaving
brush and soap containers.
Price 89/-.
'v; xU'
I
Dapper Kit, 9/6
Comb, nail file and clothes brush,
in calf case, fits your vest pocket.
BRUSH SET, case of tan hide,
comb and nylon bristle brush.
34/3.
Leather Attache Case
Genuine hide steel frame rein-
forced leather corners fitted with
English rustless locks. 16in., 76/3;
tBin. 85/9.
Leather , O*night Case
Beautiful calf on wood founda-
tion, moire-silk lined, large mirror
in lid, two jars and two bottles
in body of case. 12in. x llin. x
4iin. Price £7/17/6.
I > — __
v‘: ' •
mm
■
I
I
OB
m
Drinking Set, 15/6
Four colored plastic beakers in
leather containers, with slide fas-
tener. Ideal for travelling, picnics
or race meetings. Price 15/6.
Leather
Grip Bag
A beautiful polished
cowhide double handled
grip bag, designed for
carrying comfort. Size,
20inch. Priced at only
£B/1/-.
Leather
Cabin Cases
m
Genuine hide rein-
forced with iron frame
turnover edge to pro-
tect stitching. 26in.,
£l3/5/6; 28in., £l4/5/-;
30in., £l5/4/-.
Framed Leather
Folio Satchel
A three - compartment
folio built on a wide
opening steel frame,
cloth lined. Overall
size: 18in. x 13in, x 9in.
Priced at £7/10/-.


An Epic Broadcast
“A QUEEN’S JOURNEY”
By J. E. MACDONNELL
ON Christmas Day, at 7 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time, the
Queen of England will speak
into a microphone in New Zea-
land. Instantly, her voice will be flung
over all the world.
The Queen’s message will form' the
climax of a programme starting at 6 p.m.
Programmed as “A Queen’s Journey,”
it is probably the biggest thing ever
attempted in radio anywhere. Not so
much as regards distances or numbers
of listeners —the Coronation, broadcast
entered a fair number of homes —but
because, except for the Queen’s speech,
all contributions in the hour-long pro-
gramme will first of all have to come
in to Sydney, from more than 20 coun-
tries, before being beamed out again to
the listening world.
In each of those countries one or two
people typical of their area have been
selected to say a few words. Sir Edmund
Hillary, for instance, though he will
speak from an English village, will
represent New Zealand; a Mauritian
who served with the Eighth Army in the
Western Desert and is now running a
chicken-farm is the selection for
Mauritius.
The task of calling in each contribut-
ing country, and narrating the whole
show, has been entrusted to veteran
Chester Wilmot. All contributors will
be listening to Wilmot’s cue. In some
cases, it will be upwards of a 20,000-mile
cue!
One channel only for carrying the
broadcast would be too risky. So
engineers of the 8.8. C., New Zealand
Broadcasting Service and the A.8.C.,
working in conjunction with their asso-
ciated communications organisations,
have “laid-out” four or five alternate
channels. The Australian P.M.G. has
designed a programme-selection panel—'
in effect, a channel-changer—so that, if
the broadcast, through interference, is
not being properly received, a technician
can flick a key and change to another
circuit. No listener will notice the
change. One circuit will fling the broad-
cast over the South Pole.
Reception conditions can change
almost every second on any one channel,
hence the alternate routes and the provi-
sion for a quick change-over. This part
of the world, because of distance from
London and Europe, is just about the
worst place for the broadcast. And
Christmas-time, at 6 p.m., is the worst
time of the year and the worst time of
day for transmitting long-range.
If all circuits were to prove faulty,
Sydney (the controlling-point) has
gramophone-disks, previously recorded,
all set to play. During the live broad-
cast these will be actually playing
(silently), so that the panel-operator will
be ready to switch to disk as soon as
he gets the office.
To indicate the enormous distances
involved: the voices of contributors
from South Africa (for instance) will
first of all go to London ; London will
beam them back to Sydney; and Sydney
will then distribute them in a far-flung
wave of sound reaching out to Mac-
quarie Island in the Antarctic and to
Winnipeg in Canada.
After all countries have come in and
delivered their messages the scene will
shift for the climax to Auckland. Here,
in a drawing-room in Government
House, the Queen sits before a micro-
phone. Time, 7 p.m. She speaks.
Her voice will be caitied by a new,
high-quality landline to a central trans-
mitting installation outside Wellington.
Here the actual broadcast of the Queen s
speech begins. It will be directed through
one channel to Barbados ; through two
channels to London; one to Sydney;
and through others tp ’Frisco and Singa-
pore. All going out simultaneously.
' All Radio New Zealand transmitters
will be in use, as well as a powerful one
made available by the Enzed Navy.
Take the Sydney channel. Received
there, the speech will be broadcast to
Fiji, New Guinea, Singapore, Hong
Kong ‘ and Ceylon. All on different
beams and all streaking out at once.
Or the London circuit. The New
Zealand transmitter shoots it off in a
narrow, short-wave directional beam.
Received in London, the Queen’s words
are distributed non-directionally all over
Britain. At the same time, the broad-
cast will be beamed again from London
to a radio-telephone transmitter; this
boosts it off to Johannesburg, where,
picked up, it is piped out through local
transmitters to radio-sets in homes* all
over Africa.
That’s one link—New Zealand, Lon-
don, Jo’burg, While that is going on,
through the loaded ether another link
will take the speech- New Zealand,
Sydney, Jo’burg. Another, New Zealand,
Sydney, London, Jo’burg.
In Australia, more than 60 transmitters
will be ready to boost the speech all over
this country. If you don’t hear the broad-
cast after all that, you’d better call in a
radio-mechanic.
Finally, to ensure reception even if,
inconceivably, this vast organisation
should fail, the whole programme will be
recorded in Sydney, and repeated to
London for replaying by the 8.8. C. to
the world later.
One thinks naturally of the 8.8. C. in
connection with this epic broadcast.
But, apart from admitting that the
Christmas Day programme is a 8.8. C.
feature, and that this year’s will be the
first to emanate outside London in over
a score of years, the 8.8. C. men here
on the job stress the fact that their
presence is mainly in an advisory
capacity. Australian and New Zealand
producers and technicians, they say, have
done a grand job of preparation over the
past six months.
Whoever is responsible, it can be
surely stated that at 7.16 p.m., Decem-
ber 25, 1953, radio history will have
been made.
The Demonstrative Sort
| I T seemed by the ad. that it might
I be an attractive job, so I applied
I lin person.
The personnel-manager looked
; me across keenly—there’s not enough
I up-and-down to bother about—then
; asked if I had had any previous
; experience as a demonstrator.
1 I assured him it had been vast.
I “Why,” I said, “only last Saturday
at Rosehill, when Lord Saivis
came home at fifty to one after hav-
ing been last in his five previous
starts, I was one of the first
to start yelling at the jockey.
Could you have seen the way I went
livid with rage and shook my fist at
seeing my two bob go down the sink
because”
No, no,” he said. “I mean
demonstrating household appliances.
We have girl demonstrators, of
course, but our staff psychologist put
forward the suggestion that women,
who form the bulk of our customers,
would find more attraction in look-
ing at a man, demonstrating than one
of their own sex. He has just
finished reading the Kinsey report.”
“Very sound reasoning,” I agreed.
“After all, / certainly wouldn’t want
to see a man demonstrating the
correct way of pulling bn a sixrway-
stretch nylon roll-on. Tm your man
prepare to see herds of women
battling to get acquainted with my
technique—and not only with
machines, either!”
“You have had experience with
them?” he asked.
“Need you ask?” I replied. “I am
a married man. I’ve ironed more
shirts, vacuumed more rooms and
washed more clothes than the aver-
age housewife does in a lifetime. As
for cooking, Mrs. Beaton and I were
like that.” I held out two parallel
fingers. “I can bake a meringue, ice
a sponge or baste a tea-cake with
the best.”
He seemed impressed with my
magnificent self-confidence. “Well,”
he said, “you may start on the food-
mixers and the ironing-machines.”
My first prospects were a man
and his wife who had a small boy
with them. They said they were
“just having a look round.” I sensed
the opportunity to get them interested
in several things.
Leading the way to the latest in
washing-machines, I said, “Now, sir,
if you’ll allow me, I will restore your
tie to its pristine state, ironed and
all, within five minutes.”
He took it off and handed it over
—it was an expensive-looking one
backed with white satin—and I put
it in the machine and switched on.
After they watched the tumbling
action for a while I suggested they
look at a *vacuum-c!eaner while
awaiting completion of the tie-
washing.
I demonstrated this quite success-
fully but for one slight contretemps.
To show what sucking-strength it
had I put the nozzle at the back of
the kid’s head so that it would pull
his cap off,' but the suction was so
strong it pulled him backwards,
yelling, into it, with his hair caught.
The mother demonstrated she was
the neurotic kind by becoming
almost annoyed. However, she
yielded at last to my persuasive
tongue.
Back at the washing-machine, I
was puzzled to find that I couldn’t
find the tie—it was nowhere in the
suds, and certainly couldn’t have got
mixed-up with the works. I decided
that a demonstration on the new
Smithereenizer would give me time
to think where it could have got to.
Slicing a carrot in four, I dropped
it in the container and switched the
food-mixer on.
“There,” I said, pouring it into a
glass and handing it to the lady,
“this amazing machine has trans-
formed a whole carrot into thousands
of microscopic pieces, rendered un-
recognisable as such except, of
course, for the delicious flavor. Try
it.”
She took a swig, grimaced and
handed it over to her husband. “It’s
got a funny flavor,” she said. He
had a few mouthfuls. “Not bad!”
he pronounced. “But it. seems
there’s something added to the
carrot.”
I tried it. The dregs at the bottom
contained very small pieces of what
looked like white satin. A suspicion
hit my mind arid I grabbed the kid by
the windpipe and pushed him up
against the. washing-machine.
“Did you dredge the tie out of
this and drop it in the mixer?” I
demanded.
“Aw, gee,” he gasped sulkily, “it
was on’y the ole man’s tie. How
was I to know you was goin’ to drink
it?”
I assured my prospective cus-
tomer the firm would make good his
loss. I could see the lady seemed
interested in the ironing-machine.
This called for a bold stroke. • •
Pointing to the knee-bagginess of
his trousers, I assured the customer
in my most honeyed words that the
machine would transform them
within a minute or two into knife-
edge creases such as you saw on
trouser-ads. on the posters. The
prospect seemed to please him, and
he agreed to divest himself of them
behind a screen.
Soon I had them in the machine.
I had just clamped it down when his
mother asked if the kid could have an
egg-flip, shell and all. It was when I
was preparing this that a pungent
smell struck my nostrils. I rushed
over and hoisted the lid and half
the scorched rammies came away
with it. 'I
While I was trying to scrape the
rest off with a knife, and while the
customer, clad in fills underpants,
was shouting rude imprecations at
me, the manager came around the
corner with a mob of women cus-
tomers who all began shrieking.
Ah, well, it would have probably
got on my quince, anyway, yapping
to a bunch of women all day.
Bo.
TATT.'S ON THE MOVE AGAIN
By MAXWELL GOODALL
JT\ LTHOUGH Tatter sail’s lottery has
/ I enjoyed a more-or-less peaceful
{ existence in Tasmania for upwards
of fifty years, its transfer to Vic-
toria will not be the first time it has been
forced to move from one State to an-
other. Victoria, in fact, will be the
fourth State in which it has carried on
its business.
George Adams, founder of Tattersall’s,
was by all accounts a remarkable man.
Born in Hertfordshire (Eng.) in 1839,
he arrived in Australia sixteen years later.’
A big man physically, with a personality
to match, he was. evidently one to in-
spire confidence in others. After work-
ing at a variety of jobs in the country
of N. S. Wales, he eventually took over
proprietorship of O’Brien’s pub in Pitt-
street, Sydney. He was financed by a
group of friends on the understanding
that he was to repay them when in a
position to do so—confidence that was.
not misplaced, for in 1884 Adams pur-
chased the freehold of the hotel for
something like £40,000.
Alterations and improvements made to
the building (still going strong as Adams’s
Hotel) included the construction in about
1892 of the far-famed Marble Bar, the
marble for which was specially imported
from many different countries, and alone
cost £32,000.
In Adams’s day, O’Brien’s was the
headquarters of Tattersall’s Club. Sweep-
stakes on the major horseraces were often
run for members. In 1887 Adams
decided to open these sweeps to the
public.
The sweeps rapidly grew in size and
number; but their success was short-
lived, for the New South Wales Govern-
ment stepped in and declared all sweeps
within its borders illegal.
Adams packed his bags, and in Sep-
tember, 1893, left for Brisbane. The
Bananaland legislators, however, were of
the same mind as their N.S.W. counter-
parts, and soon took similar action.
Adams, determined to proceed with his
venture, was quickly on the move again,
“I
this time southwards to Tasmania. In
the island State he found a situation ready-
made to suit his particular talents.
The Bank of Van Diemen’s Land,
desperately short of ready cash, decided
to dispose of its assets by means of a
public lottery. Adams secured the job
of conducting it. He sold 100,000 tickets
at £1 each, and the drawing took place
in 1895. The bank secured a far greater
return for its assets than it would have
done on the depressed ppen market.
It was an ‘auspicious start for the
“Lottery King’s” career in his newly-
found home. He opened business in
Hobart in January, 1896. His first
Hobart sweep of 25,000 tickets of ss.
each was conducted on the Anniversary
Handicap run at Randwick on Australia
Day that year.
The Tasmanian Government, under the
Premiership of Sir Edward Braddon, dis-
played a tolerant attitude towards Adams’s
business—so tolerant, in fact, that in 1897
the conducting of the sweeps came under
Government licence. 'Lhe sum of £lO,OOO
was deposited with the Treasury as evi-
dence of good faith.
Size of sweeps ranged from 10,000 to
100,000 tickets of ss. each, with a yearly
“special” on the Melbourne Cup—loo,ooo
tickets of £1 each. Expanding business
soon led to the need for bigger premises,
and in 1899 the concern was transferred
to its present-day site at 77 Collins-
street, Hobart.
A blow was struck at Adams’s business
in 1902, when the Federal Government
ruled that the G.P.O. would no longer
carry mail addressed to Tattersall’s,
However, alternative means of com-
munication were found and the inter-
state business carried on. The ban was
lifted in 1930.
George Adams died on September 23.
1904. His lotteries have brought for-
tunes to thousands, but the biggest and
most consistent winner over the years has
been the Tasmanian Treasury. Loss of
the lottery-tax and stamp-duty will cost
the State about £1,500,000 a year.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, December 9, 1953
Vol . 74—No. 3852
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man**
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney: Box 2521 ;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria ; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street. Melbourne
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington
ON THE GWYDIR TRACK
The opening of the Gwydir by-election campaign has
been clouded by the Liberals putting up a candidate
against the Country-party duo. The Country party is
a solid fact whether an organised minority of Sydney
Liberal executives like it or not. Though not the
larger party in the coalition, it has proved through
a long series of polls to be tough and enduring, even
if forced by circumstances to be sectional.
While, however, the action of the Liberals and of
quarrelling factions in Victoria (where the Country
party is as bad as, or worse than, its Liberal enemies
in N. S. Wales) may have given Dr. Evatt a ray of
hope for next year’s polls, the Mehzies-Fadden
coalition has worked as a solid body sticking
together through thick and thin, even through
the touchy period of financial restriction, and
during the controversy over revaluation in 1949-50.
And the C.P. leaders in Parliament are the first to
admit that in the matter of Gwydir Mr. Menzies has
shown the same exemplary attitude that he displayed
last year when Mr. Fadden was under heavy fire. The
Prime Minister himself will treat all candidates opposed
to “Labor,” without preference, as Government candi-
dates, and will therefore in person lead file campaign
and set an example which the quarrelling organisations
behind him will have to follow if they expect to win
the 1954 general elections.
Apart from the distraction of Government-party
quarrelling, which it is hoped will now be over, the
campaign as a foretaste of the general-election fight
has even in its beginnings provided a glimpse of the
complete bankruptcy of “Labor” in fighting material.
The initiative is with the Government parties to
justify themselves in the face of “Labor” criticism of
the most fearsome-sounding nature, but also of the
most tenuous substance. Most of the charges scarcely
need answering at all. The shrill accusations which
have been used to create a. depression complex and
fear of unemployment among voters during the past
few years have become laughable. Dr. Evatt’s
opening propaganda was simply answered by Mr.
Casey and Mr. Anthony in plain figures—in 1949
there were 2,450,000 wage- and salary-earners in jobs
in Australia; today “that figure has improved to
2,563,000, so that there are 100,000 more people in
remunerative employment, saving more money and
living at a higher standard, as illustrated by the fact
that savings-bank deposits have increased by
£2OO million, or an average of round about £25 per
head of population.” The tax position speaks for
itself. The production position speaks for itself. The
industrial peace produced by coalition policy is obvious
to all. And the programme of future development
is clear-cut and its merits arguable not on general
lines, but only in detail. Coalition plans are, by and
large, concerned with progressive reduction of pro-
duction-costs and particularly of transport-costs, the
elimination within industry of conflict as between
classes and sections, the harnessing of power resources
from uranium, coal and, water, with decentralisation
and the reform of the Constitution to meet this objec-
tive and to whittle-down overlapping and competition
between the Commonwealth and the State Govern-
ments.
The details as they apply to the particular
interests of electorates like Gwydir are clearly known
and capable of illustration by example of what already
has been, or is being, done. The defence programme
from the Rocket Range to the development of the
new Australian Sabres for the R.A.A.F., the fastest
fighters in the world in practical use, and from the
reconditioned R.A.N. to the highly-successful National
Service Scheme, gives Australia the strongest basis
of security we have ever owned in peace-time.
It is clear that even “Labor” finds little to criticise,
and the one plan which it hoped would react against the
Government and provide a suitable background
against which to preach socialisation, Sir Earle Page s
health-scheme, is just now receiving praise even from
State “Labor” members in the industrial suburbs of
Sydney, the heart of “Labor’s” stronghold.
In the circumstances it is obvious that Dr. Evatt
is finding it difficult to present a bold, much less an
aggressive, front in this pilot-plant campaign for the
general election. He resembles somewhat, pdhtically,
the kind of apparition that was familiar on
the Gwydir and Paroo tracks in 1893 but unknown
in the boom-prosperity of 1953-the ripned cocky-
farmer who had lost his selection and his all, staggering
about in the hot sun under the weight of the disordered
remnant of his possessions. His capital of socialisation
"HE PULLS HIS WHEELBARR-OW...."
has been put in the hands tff trustees. His unification
policy has been hypothecated. He tramps from door
to door peddling promises of what he will achieve
if only somebody will give him a little work —how he
will decentralise and develop, find ways of revitalising
this and bringing Heaven nearer to the small man
by that—usually by methods in conflict with “Labor’s”
platform.
He has lost most of his intimate support. It is a
staggering fact that there are members of his party
in Canberra whose chief grievance against the Menzies
Government at the moment is that it hasn’t appointed
a royal commission to inquire into the truth of rumors
that “Labor” funds were loaded with Communist
money a year or so ago. As he begs for votes at the
door of the electorate the smells of Wrenism, of
Cahillism, of Sydney City-Councilism rise from his
political “Labor” clothing. There are forms of policy
which have been among his soundest items of stock-
in-trade which he can no longer mention, much less
try to sell —liberty of the subject, human rights, free-
dom of the Press.
With a united front among the moderate parties
anybody representing Federal “Labor” today should
be beaten at the starting-line. The handicaps of
party-dissension, party abandonment of every “Labor”
objective and plank, party indifference to public
dishonesty should together form too heavy a handi-
cap even for Phar Lap to carry, especially under
the present leadership.
Socialism Seizes an Island
Lord Howe Island, a tiny scrap of New South
Wales territory rising out of the sea about 450 miles
north-east of Sydney, is the subject of an Act just
passed by the New South Wales Parliament and
which will apply to it alone. Whether this can
be described as favored treatment is a matter of
opinion; a majority of the islanders have another
name for it.
Uninhabited at the time of its discovery by
Lieutenant Ball in 1788, Lord Howe Island was
during the ensuing fifty or sixty years settled by
various families and small groups, some of whom
were still in occupancy when the Imperial Govern-
ment, in 1855, proclaimed it as part of the territory
under the jurisdiction of the Parliament of New
South Wales.
No Government sales or grants of land have
ever been made, and those islanders who hold land
are deemed to do so by permissive occupancy. The
first settlers got their living by supplying whalers
and other ships with vegetables and fresh food; when
this source of income fell away an export trade in
the seeds of the Kentia-palm was developed. Nowadays
the tourist-trade is the mainstay of the island.
In 1913 a Lord Howe Island Board of Control
was created to regulate affairs and trade. The
decision of the Executive Council was that.it should
“be vested with a permissive occupancy of the whole
of the lands of the island and that all previously-
existing permissive occupancies of such lands should
be cancelled.” The board then, in effect, re-granted
permissive occupancies to the holders, and the names
of these were registered in the records of the Chief
Secretary’s Department.
During the forty years of the board’s existence
there has been much friction between it and the
islanders, who have no representation on it. Permis-
sive occupancy has also been a source of irritation;
there have been many requests and petitions for
freehold titles or at least sotnething more substantial
than permissive occupancy.
Although the islanders have always looked upop
the board as a pack of dictators and have called it
many names, they have never cast doubts on its
legitimacy. It now appears that they have very good
reason to do so. From a legal point of view Lord
Howe Island seems to have been a kind of waif
territory. It was not included in the domains of the
early Governors; it was never formally annexed by
England, yet from the time of its discovery its
possession by Britain was never disputed. It was
passed over to New South Wales in 1855, but was
overlooked or intentionally ignored by the framers
of the N.S.W. Crown Lands Act, 1884. As a result
of these circumstances Barwick, Q.C., from
whom a group of islanders recently sought counsel’s
opinion, says that “the right and power of the Crown,
whether by itself or by its delegate in New South Wales,
to deal with the land was, and in my opinion still is,
governed by the Statutes of England affecting the
disposal of Crown Land.”
The effect of this is, in Barwick’s opinion,
that it has always been possible for the islanders
to acquire a title to land “by prescription”:
That is to say, by the continuous possession of the
land for 60 years adversely to the Crown. That
period of 60 years could be partly before 1855 and
partly after 1855, because the inclusion of the land
within the boundaries of the then Colony of New
South Wales had no effect on the state of the title to
the land as between the Crown and the individual
who happened to be in occupation of it at the time.
It must be stressed that in 1855 power to control
the island was vested in the Parliament of New
South Wales, not in the Governor or in the Executive
Council. It follows that the Executive Council had
no right in 1913 to transfer the lands to the board
or even to create the board.
When he introduced the Lord Howe Island bill
Chief Secretary Kelly said fit was designed “to
establish an adequate basis for administering the
affairs of Lord Howe Island and to provide means
of granting land-tenures in the island.” On the
face of it that sounds like a genuine attempt to
adjust the anomalies, but island critics point out
that the basis for administering their affairs gives
them virtually no voice—the board to be set up is
merely the same old board, with legitimacy papers—
and that the land-tenures fall far short of their
desires. Islanders on the register of permissive
occupancies may be granted perpetual leases up to
five acres ; anything beyond five acres will be subject
to ten-year leases only—which means that many of
the islanders will hold portion of their land subject to
the goodwill of a board consisting mostly of Govern-
ment officials.
There seems to be no logical or valid reason
why freehold titles should not be granted, except
that the Cahills, being Socialists, do not believe
in freehold titles, although they make exceptions
in their private dealings. But if not freehold, surely
all islanders could be confirmed in perpetual leases
of the whole of their present holdings, especially in
view of legal opinion that they really own them
already.
Among its other functions the new board is
to be given power to control the tourist-trade and
“to require persons carrying on such businesses and
trades as the board may determine to be licensed”
on terms and conditions prescribed by it. Those
running guest-houses or engaged in other tourist
activities on the island naturally resent this intrusion,
which gives the board power over the whole economic
life of the island. They point out that they are
fully-franchised citizens and taxpayers of New. South
Wales and they want to know why they should be
subjected to restrictions not applied anywhere else
in the State. So far there has been no convincing
answer.^


PLAIN ENGLISH
Oil in the West
If the oil-strike at Rough Range, near
Exmouth Gulf, in W.A., measures up to
anything like preliminary expert expec-
tations, if not tp almost-hysterical public
imaginings, then an incalculable,addition
has been made to Australia’s known
natural assets. Lack of indigenous petro-
leum resources has for long induced some-
thing like an inferiority complex in the
minds of Australian industrial planners,
our deficiency in this form of potential
industrial energy affecting our present
power costs and inhibiting our planning
for the future. The position of the oil-
find is quite a happy one. It is not far
from the coast, and it has occurred in a
State which at the moment is on the
threshold of great industrial develop-
ment, as witnessed by the construction
programmes of C.O.R. and B.H.P. in the
south-western corner.
Congratulations for what is already
known to have been achieved at Rough
Range are due to Westralia itself (which
at heart is still partly a mining State), to
W. G. Walkley, of Ampol, to California
Texas, and to those geologists, of the
Bureau «f Mineral Resources and else-
where • (including the pioneers), for
their work in pinpointing the drilling-
site. It is probable, at the same
time, that such quick success in striking
even some oil has left most of those con-
cerned a little bewildered. Well, that’s
the luck of the game. Like gold, oil is
where you find it.
If Australia has found for itself a
major oilfield, it will be some time before
its real value to us can be assessed. First
tq be considered will be the terms upon
which the W.A. Petroleum Co. holds its
exploration and exploitation rights from
the W.A. Government. These rights
take in almost all the coastal area of the
State, from the extreme north to Cape
Leeuwin, and including the two great
sedimentary basins, with the exception of
Freney’s 550 square miles. Ampol has
stated that the conditions of the agree-
ment with W.A. “assures to W.A.
Petroleum its right to develop its areas to
the fullest extent in the event of the dis-
covery of oil.” Ampol has a one-fifth
interest in the venture. California Texas,
of the U.S.A., owns four-fifths of it.
Presumably an oilfield would be de-
veloped whether Australia was in a posi-
tion to transmit dividends in dollars to
the U.S.A. or not. , Assuming that it still
remains difficult to transfer funds from
Australia, then it is likely that a good
deal of the funds belonging to U.S.
shareholders would be reinvested in Aus-
tralia.
To what extent a major oilfield in
W.A. would reduce oil-fuel costs in.this
country depends largely upon ourselves,
not upon Nature. Oil would still have
to be brought to the eastern States by
tanker, and it has been shown recently
that freight charges by ships under Aus-
tralian articles between certain Aus-
tralian ports are little less than overseas
charges. Clearly an abundant oil-supply
would place obligations upon us as well
as offering us tremendous advantages.
The great industrial wealth Of the
United States did not come out of oil
and other natural resources by them-
selves. Hard work arid keen enterprise
were as much responsible,
"Victory for Democracy"
Municipal-poll results for Sydney city
were not complete when The Bulletin
went to press, but that a “Labor” mayor
could be elected by a huge majority in all
the circumstances, as Alderman Hills has
been elected —-his majority at the moment
of writing was more than 150 per cent, of
the whole vote of his Civic Reform
opponent—is remarkable. And that
37,000 out of 135,000 electors should
have failed to votd in such an election
advertises the condition of public opinion
in Sydney. Mr. W. R. Colbourne, N.S.W.
A.L.P. president, declared that the vote
for Lord Mayor was “a great victory for
democracy, in which the people had the
final say,” but it seems on the geography
of the vote that by people he meant “the
slums.”
Mr. Carrick, general-secretary of the
Liberal party, also t thinks the result a
great triumph—“a* landslide against
‘Labor’.... At the Senate election last
May the ‘Labor’ party obtained about
75 per cent. On Saturday Alderman
Hills, # on present figures, obtained only
56 per cent. That will be substantially
reduced when the postal votes have been
counted.”
It is not enough, and if the Liberal
party of N. S. Wales had devoted a little
more energy to fighting “Labor” at the
municipal polls instead of the Country
party at Gwydir there might have been
more room for congratulation, and hun-
dreds of Liberal supporters might not be
complaining that their names have been
mysteriously removed from the rolls.
The aldermanic polls, of course, will
not begin to be known until December
9 or 10 —the delay presumably is another
manifestation of democracy— and count-
ing under proportional-representation is
unlikely to be complete before Christ-
mas, but it seems certain that, with
15,000 primaries cast for Lang Labor
and independents, the fight on preferences
will be hard. Alderman Hills said after
his own election that he believed that
“Lkbor” would win 12 seats, but Aider-
man Bartley, leader of Civic Reform,
estimates that the figures will be “Labor”
nine, Civic Reform-Liberals eight, Inde-
pendents two and Communist one —the
Communist will be Comrade Tom Wright,
financial and security member of the
Polit-bureau, Moscow-trained and a
friend and ally of Comrade Thornton.
As he owes his election to the grace of
the Cahills, he can be expected to be an
asset to “Labor.”
Meanwhile the N. S. Wales Parliament
has adjourned with indecent haste and
without the usual exchange of Christmas
greetings between parties, apparently be-
cause the pressure on the Cahills for an
inquiry into Sydney city affairs had be-
come so powerful that it was almost im-
possible to resist, and because, anyway,
it will be very much more comfortable
to have Parliament out of session when
the Dog Collar Act is implemented and
the Press Gag applied.
It is characteristic of the Sydney Press
that little is said about the municipal
elections in the country, but the figures
available on Monday morning for the
New-States referendum which was being
held in defiance of Government threats,
bullying and union pressure were sig-
nificant. The conviction apparently is
dawning universally on the New England
people that Sydney is a sink, not a city,
and that they want to be rid of its influ-
ence. In some areas there was an 80
per cent. vote. And on preliminary figures
all areas for which figures are available
have voted for a new State. Tamworth
voted 4314 “Yes” and 935 “No” ; Grafton
3645 for and 987 against; and in other
centres the vote was four-, five- and six-
to-one in favor of breakaway.
It is comforting that there are some
parts of N. S. Wales which still have a
civic conscience.
Clean Sweep Needed
Amid the sound and fury of the graft
allegations against the old Sydney City
Council and the tedious hum of the
adding-machines totting up the votes and
preferences of the fifty-four candidates
to decide which 20 of them will com-
prise the new council, issues have become
confused and the most important fact
has been lost to sight. This is that the
entire system of municipal government in
Sydney rests on a false basis.
Since 1949, when Premier Cahill, then
Minister for Local Government, politi-
cally “fixed” the position, perpetrating
the Greater Sydney Blot by absorbing
eight industrial municipalities and intro-
ducing compulsory universal suffrage, the
Sydney City Council has been elected by
voters of whom the majority have no real
stake in the city, while the people who
own the business-houses, shops and fac-
tories which justify Sydney’s existence
have virtually no voice.
The glaring inequity of this was touched
on last week when the chairman of David
Jones, Ltd., pointed out that his com-
pany, which owned five properties within
the boundaries of the City Council, paid
this year rates amounting to £53,420.
On Saturday it was entitled to one vote,
the same as a lodger with less than a
year’s residency in the city.
No doubt the “Labor”-Socialists who
run the city of Sydney and the State of
New South Wales would reply, “Well,
that’s democracy—one-man-one-vote.” It’s
nothing of the sort. The principle of
adult suffrage is generally accepted in-
sofar as Federal and State elections are
concerned. It is less firmly based in
the field of local-government, 'where
revenue comes entirely from property-
owners. In the peculiar case of an area
like Sydney proper, a teeming hive by
day, but an empty shell when its daytime,
population goes home to sleep, it has
no validity at all.
The resident voters of Sydney pay
virtually nothing towards the cost of
running the city, and much of the work
of the council concerns them far less
than it does the people who come from
outside its boundaries every morning to
man its offices and factories. These out-
number the resident population five to
one, but (hey have no voice in the control
of the city in which they spend most of
their waking hours.
The Greater Sydney plan and compul-
sory voting were designed for one purpose
—to give “Labor” permanent control of
Sydney. As a result the old slogan of
the American colonists, “No taxation
without representation,” has been twisted
into a system which gives representation
without taxation and sets up a system
under which one set of people puts up
the money and another set decides how it
should be spent.
The Opposition in the N. S. Wales Par-
liament should make it clear that when
they are returned to power they will
wipe out the present iniquitous system
and replace it with one more in keeping
with fairplay and commonsense. Any
such suggestion will be met by “Labor”
with talk of Fascism and vested interests,
but unless something of the sort is done
graft and corruption will qualify for
permanent residency in the Sydney City
Council.
:
In the Rose City
From Molongloside:
For all practical purposes the current
Federal Parliament finished its work in Can-
berra last week. Its only remaining duties
before it goes to the electors in May, 1954,
will be to put through its first ceremonial open-
ing by the Queen in person and provide
Supply for the interregnum.
Its working end was scarcely edifying. Half
the senior Ministers were away; The quorum-
bells rang regularly. Bills were bundled
through with obvious haste, nobody apparently
wishing to speak, and those who did being
sometimes almost dragged bodily into the
Chamber by weary Whips. Only a very few
members seemed to maintain their pristine
enthusiasm and sense of duty—Professor Bland,
hard at work on Public Accounts Committee
duties, and Mr. Wentworth, who came out of
,a sick-bed in which he had been immured for
three weeks to speak at 5 a.m. on the last
morning on the futility of the Bermuda Con-
ference and to warn that “many, people —
even our leaders —are still under the domina-
tion of the Russian-sponsored thesis that our
present defence policy is sufficient to meet the
gathering and imminent atomic crisis.”
It was virtually on this minatory note that
the Parliament of 1951-54 ended its last busi-
ness session, most of its members more con-
cerned with the problem of. getting away for
Christmas or to Gwydir than with what to do
when blown up by Malenkov.
Nobody could have imagined that the world
is living on the lip of crisis which the leaders
of Bermuda are trying to find means to avert.
The only evidence, indeed, of an interest in
security in Canberra was the spectacle of Mr.
Eddie Ward, hot on the telephone-tapping
trail, dragging a white and weary Clyde
Cameron round in search of the Security
Department’s habitat, the pair apparently hav-
ing by mistake invaded the wrong department
the week before under the impression that they
were in the heart ,of MI 5 and afterwards hav-
ing become bushed.
In the Caucus-rooms all was quiet. Mr.
Calwell, in charge of “Labor” in his leader’s
absence, walked with a peacock air. There
was naught said of Communist funds—a con-
spicuous absentee from Canberra last week was
Mr. Kim Beazley, who is said to have become
the object of such terrible warnings from his
leader that he feels it safer not to attend at
all. It is just as well for “Labor” since anti-
communist members are at white-heat about
the revelations about alleged , donations at the
time of the Communist-party Dissolution Act
referendum. These some of them affirm that
they believe implicitly.
The Senate showed unwonted activity last
week —directed, of course, to getting away early,
though much of its work was done in an
attitude of slumber.
Nothing interested any Canberran legislator
but that. With them it is a case of “Ho for
the dear old electorates and babies galore to
be kissed!”
This week the City is silent amid its roses,
which are glorious and abundant. It will
remain so until 2500 scientists and historians
descend on it in January for the Anzaas Con-
ference. They will be so thick that they have
even squeezed out the momentous British Com-
monwealth financial conference, which—awful
fate—will have to be held in a Big City in
consequence.
!
From Grays to Cervantes
During the past week or so the uproar
over the Sydney City Council and the
Sydney bill for compulsory unionism has
made thousands uneasy about the integrity
of elected persons. Graft and union
despotism, especially when they attain
large-scale proportions, always attract
public interest, and that is well. But
during this same period more far-reaching
and dangerous threats to public welfare
have appeared in four States—far-
reaching because they touch everybody
and dangerous because they reveal an
attitude of mind in high places which
is more threatening than grasshopper
plagues, union tyranny or aldermanic dis-
honesty.
In N.S.W. authorities say they will ban
the sale of New Zealand and Tasmanian
crayfish after December 27. These cray-
fish retail at 3s. 3d. a pound in N.S.W.,
whereas the local ones retail at 7s. 6d.
to 10s. The authorities say crayfish must
not be less than lOin. long ; the importers
say the N.Z. and Tasmanian smaller ones
are a different species. But a Mr.
Fowler, for the Master Fishmerchants’
Association, says the ban “is the same as
a tariff for N.S.W. fishermen.”
The banning authority is apparently
prepared to ignore the inter-State free-
trade provisions of the Commonwealth
Constitution in regard to Tasmania.
There is a Fish Board in N.S.W. which
even bans a housewife from buying a
fresh fish on the seashore and, so far,
it hasn’t explained why crayfish can be
brought long distances to Sydney and sold
at half the price of the local fish.
Challenged by a public demand as to
why milk should be lid. a pint, as against
7|-d. and 9d. in other capitals, Sydney
Milk Board is holding a public inquiry.
It seems determined to show that dairy-
farmers mustn’t get any less for their
milk. They average about 3s. Bd. a
gallon. What the public wants to know
'is who gets the difference between that
and the 7s. 4d. a gallon they pay. But
the Milk Board, which controls the
quantity, quality and price of milk, is
conducting the inquiry,'
In Victoria the railways commissioners
had no sooner urged further restriction
on road transport and the forcing, of
people to send livestock and perishables
by rail instead of road than the Cain
Government came out with an increase
of nearly 300 p.c. in the penal taxes
imposed on road-vehicles and a law to
stop fdrmers road-hauling, their produce
more than 50 miles.
And in both Adelaide and Brisbane
legislation is afoot to ban the sale of
what is variously called by the legislators
crime, horror, sex, obscene and trashy
literature. , Who is to decide what the
adult and supposedly free Australian shall
read? Well, in Queensland it’s to be
a Government-appointed Board of
Review, in South Australia it’s apparently
to be left to the policeman on the beat.
Thus, from crayfish to Cervantes,
these authorities itch to control our lives,
our food, our drink, our entertainment
and our culture. And steadily and surely
they’re doing it—their power the Socialist
theories in government, their ally public
indifference.
Vale Australia
The R.A.N.’s third Australia, launched in
John Brown’s-yard on the Clyde on St.
Patrick’s Day, 1927, is to die, as all war-
ships die, after the flag of the Australian
fleet-commander has been hauled
down in her in four months’ time.
Her end also marks the close of an era,
for she already belongs technically to the
past rather than the atomic present. In
her years of pride, however, she was one
of the two most powerful warships in this
part of the seas.
A familiar sight in every great port of
the British Commonwealth, with her
three characteristic funnels and her re-
assuring sweep of beam, her service was
scarcely equalled by that of any other war-
ship afloat. Her crews have seen as‘much
history, made as any men who ever trod
a deck, not the least bit of it being the
complete revolution in R.A.N. control
brought about by the growing-up of the
first R.A.N. graduates, who were
only lieutenants and lieutenant-com-
manders for the most part when she was
born, into a flock of vice- and rear-
admirals (some retired!) and captains, so
that there is now no longer need to draw
on the R.N. for our higher command.
Australia’s service included the trans-
port of the Duke of Gloucester to Eng-
land after his first visit, in the ’thirties,
patrol of the Mediterranean during the
Abyssinian War, Indian Ocean convoy
duty along with her sister, Canberra, now,
alas, at the‘bottom at Savo; the Dakar
operation when she was blooded in action
against Vichy French air-attack. Later
she was in the Dakar battle when General
de Gaulle was repulsed, and after beach-
ing a destroyer and driving-off a cruiser
was hit by two 6in. shells. She served in
the Arctic, came hpme, became flagship of
the famous Task Force 74. And from then
onward her record was the sea war’s
history in a sense in which it could not
be said of any other ship.
She was in the Coral Sea battle, in
every major forward move and battle
frorh Guadalcanal (the extreme point of
penetration of the Japanese southward)
to Leyte, where her gallant captain, E. V.
Deschaineaux, and 29 officers and men
were killed, and 60 wounded, including
Commodore, now Sir John Collins. At
Lingayen Gulf five kamikaze attacks left
her looking like a sieve, but still fightable
and firing.
After her return, a battered-looking
object with a funnel missing, she was sent
to England for modernisation and refit,
was back on duty early in 1947, and has
since been constantly on patrol, which
{Continued on next page)


Mum’s getting all the gadgets! What about
“Farmers’ Boy” for Dad?
:
as kSI
■ ■
■
*
27ie “Farmers’ Bov” with Rotary Hoe attached
"FARMERS’ BOY” Series II: Mark XII li h.p. Villiers Engine.
Standard Equipment: 3 Cultivating teeth, 2 hoeing blades, -turn.
Tool-bar, 8 universal standards, and power take-off.
Price P.0.8.-P.0.8. Capital City Ports, £134/18/9.
EVERY HOME with an Acre or More Needs a
“FARMERS’ BOY”
The Mobile Power Unit for Almost Every Purpose
Rotary Scythe,
Paspalum guillotined I
t
Plough
Lawnmowef
DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: GRAZCOS 00.-op. Ltd., 46 Young St., Sydney.
Victoria: GRAZCOS Co-op. Ltd., 90 William St., Melbourne
Q’land: BUZACOTT’S XQ’land) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
S.A.: CLUTTERBUCK BROS. Ltd., 61-63 Bindley St., Adelaide.
W.A, and Tasmania: Distributors’ appointment pending.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: HUBERT STOKES & CO.
74 Castiereagh Street, Sydney.
Duster
Other attachments include:
SPRAYER, COMPRESSOR for inflating
tyres, spray-painting, etc., CUTTER BAR,
FURROWER, TRAILER. SAWBENCH,
GENERATOR for lighting, hole-boring,
etc., MILKING MACHINE & DISC
HARROWS.
r m
I
I
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your State Distributor )
| Pleaee post me, free, details of the “FARMERS’
BOY” and ACCESSORIES.
NAME ..,
ADDRESS
I
5 ..
j
once took her as far afield as Heard
Island.
Soon she will cease to be familiar in
Port Jackson. Last of the grand old
County class, it is to be hoped that her
bones will be incorporated in new fight-
ing ships and that she will not meet the
ignominious fate of her immediate fore-
runner, this country’s first battle-cruiser,
which was sunk off Sydney Heads in 1924
to make a holiday for ferry-trippers.
Some memorial in a prominent place in
the port of Sydney, preferably in the
harbor on a point overlooking her
anchorages, should mark the country’s
gratitude to her and to those who served
in her, some of them resting in deep
waters the world round.
POLITICAL POINTS
Toast of the week: Here’s hoping
there’s AMPLE.
0 0
Tomorrow is Human Rights Day.
Anyone not knowing what that means
should ring up Premier Cahill.
0 0
W. R. Colbourne, president of the
N. S. Wales branch of the A.L.P., de-
scribed the re-election of Alderman P. D.
Hills as Lord Mayor of Sydney as “a
great victory for democracy.” He assured
the citizens of Sydney that “under Lord
Mayor Hills the administration will be
all that could be desired.” As in the
past?
0 0
Biggest political news of the week in
N. S. Wales was, without question, the
passage of the Press Gag Bill. On space
given in Sydney and all capital-city papers
it won hands-down, and the Cahills
obviously thought so as they gagged it
through both Houses without mercy.
Yet “Labor’s” official paper, “News
Review,” self-styled the “only newspaper
giving Labor’s viewpoint,” didn’t give it
a mention!
0 0 -
Ward took exception to Menzies’s
remarks that he had Communists as his
friends and supporters. If the Corns
are not Eddie’s friends and supporters
their official paper consistently
him a very good imitation of friendship
and support. The current “Tribune”
reports at length and with approval his
phone-tapping allegations and also (and
again with approval) his bitter attack on
the U.S. tax-agreement.
0 0
Last rites over the now-decomposing
body of another defunct Socialist project
are being said in Queensland, where
Premier Gair has introduced a bill to
provide for the disposal of the land and
assets (!) of the notorious Peak Downs
sorghum fiasco. When all is said and
done it’s going to cost Queensland tax-
payers £960,000 sterling to the British
Government, plus whatever has been
dropped in wages and costs since the thing
was conceived.
0 0
Attacked over the air by a radio-com-
mentator, Billy Sheahan. wrote the
spruiker a long letter, almost red-faced
in its choleric fury and laden with
personal abuse. The radio-man read the
letter over the air and added “No com-
ment,” which seemed to leave the honors
with him.
0 0
Cain’s party refused to let him rush
through a bill to increase Victorian
motor-registration fees by one-third.
Cain wanted .it through by Christmas,
and it was expected to provide another
£1,300,000 for the Main Roads Board.
Party members thought it too hot, and,
though Cain was reported to have
“pleaded,” they carried a vote to defer
the thing for examination. Does this
mean that Cain, unlike Cahill, is respon-
sible to the Parliamentary party and not
to the Trades Hall?
0 . O
Federal council of the Country party
is seeking Senate reform by the division
of the States into zones instead of the
present system of one-State-one-elector-
ate. There’s a lot to be said for the
idea, but what has become of the party’s
plan for dividing the States into new
States?
0 0
Sydney Sunday papers ran an item
“Death sentence for Editor.” It referred
to Korea, not Sydney. N. S. Wales
“Labor” doesn’t believe in the death
penalty.
O 0
“Manchester Guardian,” discussing
Cahill’s Press Gag, comments that the
Australian “Labor” movement has
“temporarily lost its ability to march for-
ward with any sense of direction, and
has thereby developed ingrowing Tam-
many toenails.” It’s ju£t as well for the
“Guardian” that the bent arm of the
Cahill Law doesn’t extend to Man-
chester ; it might find itself being called
DISQUIETING
“Those three on the left have had it, haven’t they, Mr. Cahill?”
upon to reveal the name of the medical
expert who gave that diagnosis.
• •
The original name of the Legacy build-
ing bought by Tatt.’s for its Melbourne
headquarters was the Hibernian Hall.
Not inappropriate ; Oireland was the first
English-speaking (well, almost) country
in modern times to establish a State
lottery.
» •
Back from a tour of U.S. and Europe,
R. J. Williams, Federal secretary of the
Builders Laborers’ Union, gives it as
his opinion that workers in the building-
trade in Australia are better off than
their fellows in any other country except
America and Scotland. Worst-off, he
found, were the workers of East Berlin.
Williams can now expect a storm of
abuse from the friends of “peace” who
visited East Berlin last year and saw
nothing but happiness and joy.
0 0
Man-hours lost, largely through strikes
and stop-works, at Brisbane, Sydney and
Melbourne wharves in 1952-53 totalled
430,954, Brisbane and Sydney having by
far the worst records. Of the 1,066,743
man-hours lost in all Australian ports
where the wharfies’ union rules, Queens-
land ports lost 411,000. Yet some people
can’t understand why shipping freights
are high.
• •
The Gairs have found another excuse
to delay their promised legislation on
s.-p. betting. This time it’s the Royal
tour, the Premier declaring that he doesn’t
want a controversy raging while the
Queen is here. But would her Majesty
be likely to enter the argument?
• •
“X.S.”: The allegedly “dry” areas of
Melbourne aren’t going wet without a
struggle. Some 119 petitions containing
more than 5000 signatures having been
presented to the Assembly, the Cain
Government suddenly came out with a
surprise agreement to allow the Licensing
Court to order local-option • polls of
electors in “dry” spots. Unless the vot-
ing is made compulsory the Drys are
bound to win. They have an almost
fanatical belief to drive them to the
polling-booth. The Wets, generally
speaking, are like a publican of my
acquaintance who was asked by a cus-
tomer whether his grown-up son enjoyed
his liquor as much as did his father.
“He’s a decent, clean-living lad,” said
the publican. “Doesn’t touch a drop.”
• •
Sprig of “Labor” philosophy from the
N, S. Wales Legislative Council debate
on compulsory unionism:
Mr. Weir (Lab.): We are offering equal-
ity to the general working-man of
N. S. Wales, We are giving them the
opportunity to make a career. Who knows
they may not become union organisers?
Who knows they may not finish up here?
Evidently “Labor’s” new vision of
Utopia is a society in which everyone
is either a union organiser or a Legislative
Councillor.
• •
Allegations of graft, corruption and im-
proper practice against members of the
Sydney City Council, deceased last Satur-
day, have become almost as numerous
as City Council bylaws. Chief among
them are:
Alleged by A. D. Bridges, M.L.C.: —
1. That Alderman O’Dea, three days before
the council was due to resume after its
Easter, 1951, recess, issued 13 new
barrow-licences, some of which went to
. bookmakers and employees or ex-
employees of the council.
2. That one of these barrows used to be
supplied with fruit and vegetables by a
truck owned by Alderman Pedersen and
that fruit and vegetables had been kept
in a garage on the property of'Aider-
man Pedersen.
3. That the licensee of this stall, W. Balk,
a former' council employee, was con-
cerned in an attempt to secure a bribe
of £BOO from Legion Cabs.
4. That the letting of stalls at the City
Markets is the privilege of some council
employees.
5. That Labor. aldermen had used the
threat of resumption of land to extort
money from owners.
6. That Senator Donald Grant had a
financial interest in some barrows.
7. That Labor aldermen have secured the
appointment of friends and relatives to
council jobs.
Alleged by Dr. L, J. Parr, MX.A.:
1. That among the 13 barrow-licences
abovementioned was one in the name of
Percy Jones, a dog-bookmaker from
whom Alderman O’Dea had received a
greyhound-dog.
2. That Aldermen Byrne and Sloss received
money regularly from certain barrow-
* men, the money being divided at the
Mountbatten Hotel, George-street.
3. That nearly all Town Hall appointments
in the past three years went to A.L.P.
members; that A.L.P. applicants at-
tached their membership-card to their
applications.
4. That plans for a caretaker’s cottage on
council property at Pymble had been
redrawn to include a self-contained flat
as a residence for City Council aider-
men.
5. That officials of the Victoria Park
Bowling Club had paid to aldermen of
the City Council, as a contribution to
A.L.P. funds, the sum of £2OO, follow-
ing permission to lay down a new
bowling-green and extend its clubhouse.
That the AX.P. executive had ques-
tioned Alderman Dunn and J. C. Carroll
about this money, there being no record
of its being paid into A.L.P. funds.
Other allegations published in Sydney
Press; —
1. That N. S. Cohen had been asked to
pay a bribe of £225 to have a building
application approved by the council.
2. That a barrowman, acting, for some
aldermen, sought £BOO from Legion
Cabs in connection with its application
for a building permit.
3. That Alderman Bartley said That the
transaction of the sale of the lease of
the Hotel Crecy, owned by the council,
“shrieked for investigation”; the lease
having been sold for £12,000 just after
it had been granted without cost to the
vendor.
4. That some council employees had
offered bribes to aldermen to get them
higher-paid positions.
5. That certain aldermen had prevented
the highest tenderers getting the lease of
council hotels.
6. That Alderman Pedersen and Alderman
Sloss accepted “tribute” from council
employees.
7 Etc., etc., etc.
There have been several denials and
explanations, but the Cahill Government
went into recess without having appointed
a royal commission to investigate these
charges, though some A.L.P. men have
asked for an inquiry.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
A LASS who lately returned from a
trip abroad has what must surely be a
collector’s-piece amongst souvenirs.
Waiting around a one-donkey town in
Spain for a friend to arrive, she was
arrested by the police and, despite at-
tempted explanation, they insisted on
charging her with guilty of plying
the oldest of careers without a licence.
Language difficulties resulted in her
gleaning only one fact; she could either
take out a licence at a cost of about
five shillings, or be fined thirty shillings.
Being in the usual impoverished state of
youthful Aussies abroad, besides having
an eye for the unusual, she chose the
former.— “ Alma.”
“S.”: There isn’t any no-parking sign
at the horse-trough near Man-o’-War
Steps, but the hundreds of Sydney
motorists who line-up their cars around
there every day nearly always leave the
trough clear.
* ❖ »:♦
“Pawang”: An obvious martyr to
hayfever writes in Melbourne “Argus”
an agonised appeal, now that the
sneezing season has started, to all
householders to cut their hedges
before they flower, every council
to mow the nature-strips before the
grasses pollinate, and for gardeners to
obtain medical advice before they plant
brooms, acacias, wattles, hawthorns and
other prolific sources of pollen, to ’ save
themselves later from the anguish from
which she suffers. As a one-time sufferer
who was found to be allergic to almost
every grass and plant in the botanical
encyclopaedias, as well as to horse-dander
and house-dust, I .can sympathise with her,
but not with her reasons. I started sneez-
ing at the age of four, and the only
advice the family doctor could give was to
wait patiently to the age of 40, when
1 would grow out of it. 1 sneezed
incessantly in various parts of Aus-
tralia until I was 20, and subse- t/T*
quently sneezed in places as varied -
as Singapore, Java, Borneo, China,
Japan, Manchuria, Siberia, Russia,
Finland and England. I was
diagnosed by dozens of doctors and
the only diagnosis which proved correct
was that first one.
, ♦> $
“0.G.”: The flapper next door and
the woman at the upstairs window were
discussing the award of thousands of
pounds to a widow as compensation for
the loss of her husband. “A single girl
gets no chance to cop it lucky like that,”
said the flapper.
.♦> ♦> *z*
“K.R.”: I like to read in books on
olden times of the cavalier fashion in
which taverhkeepers were then appar-
ently treated by customers. “Fetch me
the innkeeper! ” —and the servile wretch
would come running up to do the cus-
tomer’s bidding. With noble unconcern
D’Artagnan and his pals, treating the
inn as their own and drinking the land-
lord dry, would ride off without meeting
the bill. A bolder Bung might bring up
the question of money, begging their
lordships’ pardon for mentioning such a
matter, but daring to ask because “I’m
only a poor innkeeper” with ruin facing
him if he didn’t get paid. Now, of
course, all is changed. The lordly disdain
“An ingenious combination of the modern and ancient.”
is all from Mine Host when, meek and
grovelling, one approaches him for a
bottle of non-existent Christmas cheer.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Flat 2”: Snoopery and the law (B.
18/11/’53)? In England, when egg-
rationing was at its most grim, a
farmer’s wife was visited by a well-
dressed woman who, with tears in her
eyes, begged her to sell a few eggs. Her
child, the woman said, was sick, and the
"Just the thing for the Royal visit , sir—the Duke of Edinburgh wears one.”
only food she fancied was eggs. The
farmer’s wife was sympathetic and help-
ful,- and the woman departed with a
dozen new-laid eggs. Yes, she was a
snooper, and the sick child a myth ; the
farmer was accused of blackmarketing,
just as if he had been on a level with
the dud-nylon-disposal spivs of the
cities. So Melbourne policewomen need
not feel mean about acting as chickens
for wolf-bait.
❖ ❖
“Yakipan”: In my time I’ve come
across all sorts of headgear, male and
female, but the daddy of them all was
the titfer I once saw gracing the head
of a portly Japanese gentleman at Eno-
shima. It was fixed to his head in a man-
ner somewhat similar to the battle-
bowler—by a tight band and a skull-cap.
Projecting from the top of the skull-cap
was a short length of stick which was
the shaft for the very natty silk sunshade
that opened from it. He looked so
sweet! I sneaked a snap of him but I
lost that with the rest of my possessions
when his fellow-countrymen “liberated”
Singapore.
<£♦
“Piston Pete”: I was ironing; spouse
was reading “Making Too Much of
(Mother” (B. 25/11 /’53). A series of
vicious snorts informed me that the little
lady was in entire disagreement with Mr.
Harrison. Suddenly a happy “Ah, he’s
quite right!” staggered me. “This bit
here: ‘Hitler said that if a lie is big
enough and repeated often enough it
becomes a truth.’ That sums up per-
fectly you men and your henpecked
phobia.” Discreetly, I made no comment.
♦> ❖ ♦>
“Narumee”: Dr. Lillian Gilbreth says
she hopes to foster “practical commun-
ity-spirit” in Australia, whereby twenty
neighboring families will share one
vacuum-cleaner, one garden-spade and
one washing-machine. We once had a
neighbor who shared our lawnmower;
he owned half an acre of hilly garden
to our ten-by-ten lawn, but he regularly
borrowed our mower, trundling it noisily
along the street, and returning it without
thanks —when we called for it. Our
practical community-spirit held out until
the day one of the blades broke on a
-rocky outcrop of our neighbor’s bit of
bush, whereupon he returned the machine
immediately, informing us that we should
really maintain it in better repair. After
that, another neighbor’s practical com-
munity-spirit Was tested ; we don’t know
how long it lasted, probably about as
long as that of nineteen housewives with
overflowing dirty-clothes baskets would,
when the twentieth hogged the washmg-
machine for her frillies on the wrong
day • *
“Spinifex”: Jo save v Muskeen” (B.
11/11 /’53) from further bewilderment,
the original diagnosis, pyrexia, simply
meant that his condition was feverish,
Subsequently he was found to be suffer-
ing from pharyngitis, otherwise inflam-
mation of the pharynx—a cavity situated
at the back of the throat and communi-
cating vyith the air-passages of the nose.
Xhe ailment is commonly referred to as
a cold in the head, and persons acquiring
one are generally feverish. It seems that
“Muskeen” struck a not unusual double,
with pyrexia for the first leg and pharyn-
gitis for the second.
❖ ❖ *
“Sister Ellell”: She dandled a chubby
babe upon her knee. “Yes,” she said, “a
year-old ’e is today, and this time last
year I was in the hospital and they gave
me some medicine and said, ‘Now drink
this up, and if your babe ain’t here in 18
hours we’ll have to operate on you.’ ”
As she drew breath, I chimed in with
“And did they?” “Not on me, they
didn’t,” quoth she. “Seventeen and a half
hours ’e was borned, just in time to save
being Assyrian! ”
“Becks”: Another famous horse of
the'Restoration period (B. 2/12/’53) was
Old Rowley. Of his racing prowess his-
tory is silent, but there was no doubt
about his worth as a sire—his progeny
filled the Royal stables. It was this, fact
that led an irreverent Court wit to pin
his name onto Charles 11, so the Merrie
Monarch goes down in history as the
only English king to be nicknamed after
a•, horse. After nearly 300 years the
name got back to the stable again and
an Old Rowley won the Melbourne Cup.
But if that hundred-to-one winner was
possessed of any of the philoprogenitive-
ness of his two namesakes it was wasted ;
the Old Rowley of 1940 was a gelding
THE CRUMB
Labor’s’ amendments to the Victorian
Licensing Act make big concessions to publi-
cans, clubs, etc., but give the bar-drinker only
ntteen minutes’ grace after closing-time, which
remains six o’clock.”
In Melbourne by the fragrant Yana
The “Labor” Premier, Mr. Cain,
Is busy pushing “Labor’s” barra
Along the kerb of Liquor-lane ;
There’s Christmas-stockings full of pubs
Provided\ for the publican.
And Christmas-presents for the clubs —
But what about the working man ?
It’s nice to think that “Labor,” which
Is climbing up the social rungs,
Is not too proud to share its rich
Pastures with predacious Bungs :
For Union, Lottery, Booze and Bet .
Have all one victim, all one plan —-
To wring the public dry, or wet—
But what about the working man ?
It’s nice to think that clubmen merit
Two more hours, from eight till ten,
For meals with beer, champagne or
claret —
A liberal time for Liberal men :
The Baillieus, now, in disaffection
May put Bob Menzies in the can
And vote for “Labor” next election —
But what aboqt the working man ?
It’s nice to think the thirsty coot
Who seeks abroad his beer and wine
May travel by “the shortest route,”
Not sticking to “a direct line” :
Let none say winding roads have stopped
a
Car or lorry, truck or van
Drinking with a helicopter —•
But what about the working man ?
Well,, what about 'this worker that
You keep on dinning in my ear —
So “Laborite,” so sleek, so fat,
Such a receptacle for beer ?
The new Act overbrims his cup —
An extra fifteen-minute span
To gulp beer down or gurk it up —
They don’t neglect the working man!
N.S.W,
SWILLIAM.
FRONT-COVER BOOK
For the third year in succession the
House of Seppelt has issued in book-
form under the title, “The Homeland
in Ficture and Story,” the photo-
graphs of abbeys, castles, monuments
and historic buildings whicb have
appeared under its name on the Cover
of “The Bulletin.” This year’s col-
lection is of more than usual interest
as it includes a fine series of photo-
graphs of the interior of Westminster
Abbey, which make it a valuable
souvenir of Coronation year. The
book will be posted free on applica-
tion to any Australian office of the
House of Seppelt.


BRITISH publishers, it seems —or one
® or two of them —are now looking to
this part of the world to provide some-
thing fresh in the way of fiction. Charles
Shaw (“Bant Singer”) and J. E. Mac-
donnell, both present inhabitants of The
Bulletin’s literary corridor —rather
oddly, one right at one end of it, the
other right at the other end —are two
who are filling the bill. Both certainly
provide something fresh, and, what
seems to be almost as important to their
publishers, plenty of it. Both write be-
cause they like it, and have a huge
capacity for work. When they wear out
their typewriters they go out and buy a
few more.
❖ ❖
To be the next Bulletin serial, Mac-
donnell’s novel, Wings Off the Sea, has
been published by Constable’s —the third
book by this Australian author to be
published by that London house inside
twelve months!
❖ ❖ ’
Macdonnell can be claimed as an
original, in a very special sort of way.
He has his watery furrowed field to
himself. He is the first Australian novel-
writer to use the Navy for fiction pur-
poses.
Known to all hands along The
Bulletin literary corridor as Mac—as
his serial-illustrator is indubitable Unk —
Macdonnell has one particular attribute
which should be a valuable asset to him
in this massive production of novels as
he practises it. It’s on record that Sir
UNK
Walter Scott could lift a blacksmith’s
anvil by its horn straight out to the
full extent of his right arm. No doubt
he might have written novels as good
without that physical strength backing
his pen, but it must have had something
to do with that prodigious output of his.
Anyway, Mac has plenty of physique to
call on; clewed-up (to borrow a bit of
his own sailor vocalwlary) in some 6ft.
of powerful frame. He was stroke of
the whaler’s crew which, before the war,
helped win the day for Australia in
Alexandria harbor against the whole
might of the British Navy.
A “whaler,” as far as present writer
can make out, is one of the several
classes of boats the ships may carry.
And a most remarkable amphibious
animal it must be, too ! For it runs to
a crew of five (one oar each) and a cox.
Unless present writer’s arithmetic is
functioning a bit worse than usual, or
unless they use one of the oars for a
mast or a weapon, that should make
three oars on one side and two on the
other. Lord Nelson had nothing on that.
♦> ❖ *
As for author J. E. Macdonnell’s
personal appearance, since we are not
here writing fiction this is, of course,
risky ground, Perhaps it may be got
over this way. A woman visitor to the
office, having inspected all that the present
inhabitants of the literary corridor may
be said to provide in the way of spectacle,
expressed a wish to see the lot of them
lined up against a wall and —No, not
shot. Far more cruel. She wanted to
see them photographed. She seemed to
“Of course, we'll only Wear these during th' Royal visit."
think it might interest, among others,
Madame Tussaud. Perhaps it would be
a little different. At any rate, not to
stray into the invidious, Mac would pos-
sibly come off no worse than any of the
rest.
♦> * ❖
For a character-impression of the
author, in next week’s first instalment of
Wings Off the Sea readers will come on
to a short passage in which the attached
American helicopter-flier. Hap the Yank
(one of those subsidiary characters who
in novels have their own way of coming
out best of all), is standing on aircraft-
carrier Hawk with hands on his hips and
chewing-gum in his jaws while a rescued
airman is being brought on board. “Who
is that guy, son?” Hap asks one of the
aircraft-handlers standing by; and, puts
in thf author: “Hap was an officer-
grin and gum regardless —and the leading-
airman replied accordingly; it taking
something more than the casual camar-
aderie of a lone helicopter-flier to dent
the discipline of the Royal Navy.” There,
but for the grace of God, you have Mac.
♦>
What the Navy, in Macdonnell’s 14
years of it, did to faad for) the young
chap from Toowoomba (Q.), while it had
him during almost the whole of that time
at sea, was something more than imbue
him with such a strong sense of discipline
that he’ll doubtless be Navy as long as
he lives. For double-issue it gave him
a measure of sheer self-discipline that
hasn’t anything like a match anywhere
about The Bulletin’s literary corridor,
either among the permanent inhabitants
or such of the more reputable invaders
as, say, Unk. Apparently when the Navy
gets you, it gets you good.
* ♦>
Perhaps using Unk thus for purposes
-of contrast may be a bit extreme, as the
accompanying straight charcoal-drawing
of Mac (by New Australian Tibor
Binder) and the plasticene-model uproar
of Unk (by somewhat longer-established
New Australian John Frith) might seem
to indicate. Unk’s face, patterned on
the strategy of mobile warfare on a shift-
ing front, could only be missed by any
competent artist if both of them were
suffering a blackout on a very dark
night. On the other hand, Binder isn’t
the only capable caricaturist driven to
admit that Mac is “hard to draw.” He
has made his face a little oversad,
which isn’t right, . Serious . . - yes . . .
very.
$4 ♦> ❖
Seriousness, it’s as good as certain, was
a leading (or driving) Macdonnell trait
long before the Navy got hold of him.
You have to be serious as a schoolboy
to pinch your brother’s bike and push it
70 miles, heading for the Pacific under
the influence of R. L. Stevenson’s South
Sea tales. Too bad the police should nab
you and bundle you home ; but when
mother and sister (how much unwittingly
all of them do!) thereupon treat you as a
hero, one thing for sure can be chalked
up: you’ll leave them and get to sea all
right, somehow, soon.
■%, ♦!«
When only a bit older Macdonnell got
to sea with a vengeance; and seriously
enough, too. You have to be serious to
join the Navy by correspondence and
other means from Toowoomba without
anyone but yourself knowing about it,
right up to the point where Dad has to
sign his consent on the dotted line. He
does, prophesying that you’ll last six
months and he’ll have to buy you out.
Up to this point Mac still hadn’t seen
the sea, or a ship.
* ❖
Macdonnell saw a ship for the first
time at Newcastle (N.S.W.)—which is a
fair way from Toowoomba —on his train
trek to Flinders, in Victoria, which is a
good deal further still. In a matter of
months he was on the other side of the
world, 10,000 miles or so further again ;
joining cruiser Australia in the Mediter-
ranean. It being peace-time, cruiser Aus-
tralia’s roamings take in a courtesy visit
to Gallipoli. She could get there on
Anzac Day, but speed is reduced to arrive
the day after. Reason? Johnno, too,
regards it as a day to celebrate with re-
joicing for his triumph. But perhaps the
visitors could have been in that, too —
leaving Johnno to rejoice at his triumph
of the flesh and rejoicing themselves at a
triumph of the spirit. Mac agrees it was
that, at least—or nothing.
♦♦♦ *l* <*
After the Mediterranean and all that,
back in Sydney Mac and some others
ashore for the night to give a friend a
surprise party. They got the surprise
met at the door by the friend’s wife with
the message that they had to report back
on board pronto. At 11 that night they
were out through the Heads, on their way.
It was World War 11.
The first ship Mac had ever set eyes
on, back there in Newcastle, was the
coastal ore-vessel Iron Knight. A long
time ago ; and now, in the course of this
War 11, Mac was petty-officer aboard
corvette Townsville, convoying half a
MAC
dozen ships from Melbourne to Sydney,
when at night, off Wollongong, a Jap tor-
pedo missed the corvette by a barnacle
or two and got one of the ships in the
convoy. Iron Knight. She went down in
three minutes.
<♦ ❖
This scattering of pars—no more than
the briefest impressions, with a whale
of a lot left out —may at least give some
idea of why J. E. Macdonnell writes so
expertly about the Navy and so well
about the sea and those thereon, and
therein.
♦> ♦> ❖
And now, as they say in the recipes,
take Unk. He, too, has been at sea
(actually, that is. . .in ships). War-artist
accredited to the R.N., he was given, a
little to his surprise, the admiral’s cabin.
The admiral, it seems, was elsewhere;
possibly telling something to the marines.
Steward came round after Unk was
settled-in and asked him what he d like
next day for morning-tea.' Well, Unk
had a theory of his own as to that (it
wouldn’t have been Unk the Navy had
got hold of if he hadn’t had). So, “A
pint of saltwater every morning,” said
Unk. Steward didn’t bat an eyelid. That
should have at least told Unk he’d caught
the right Navy.
♦♦♦ ❖
Unk’s theory was that here was the
Navy filling itself with all sorts of chemi-
cal salts whenever (like himself at the
moment) it wasn’t feeling so hot, while all
the time it was ploughing through un-
limited qualities of the very best brand,
already prepared* This being the R.N.
we’re on, Unk got his pint of saltwater
straight out of the sea every morning.
At the end of a week he was completely
recovered; in fact, looking so fit that
the captain started drinking the stuff,
too.
*** ❖ ❖
The missing admiral, of course, could
possibly have been away splicing the
mainbrace, the daily training for which
important function of the Navy fas-
cinated Unk. He did a whole series of
drawings of the men engaged on this
training: the men being led in procession
to the rum-cask ; the officer of the ritual,
having drawn the estimated requirement
from under armed guard, doling out the
ruby-gold Jamaica; strictly a tot a man,
with any left over (through late arriv-
ings and the like) then ceremoniously
dumped down the scuppers. Since this
sort of thing has been going on for cen-
turies, there possibly is something in
Unk’s saltwater theory, after all.
*l*
It emphasises how secret the secret
service .really is that not a word has
leaked out about the tremendous change
that must have taken place since both
Mac and Unk last viewed what is evi-
dently the greatest of all Navy secret-
weappns. Unknown to the world, the
entire Navy, in a major refit, had to be
brought, overnight, abreast of the latest
developments. It has been accomplished ;
and now, across the front of the huge
rum-issue barrel (or shrine) on every ship
the incantation, in 6in.-high brass letters,
todav reads: THE QUEEN, GOD BLESS
HER.
ORDEAL BY SOUND
“Too ma 7; d &T/ e l S Sl°X\l n n
r„r s C, after” b» beiome painfully clear they
g no talent for it ."-Musical magazine.
Behold Utde Ronnie
Upon the stool sitting.
Oh, isn’t he bonny,
And clever, of course!
Up and down all the black notes
He loves to roam, hitting
And hoping to crack notes,
You’d guess, by sheer force.
Anon, finished clowning,
A study by Czerny
He’ll pore over, frowning,
His tongue poking out.
It’s quite agonising,
This one-sided tourney
Of Satan’s devising —
Then discords he’ll clout.
And what of his sister,-
A prodigy bigger?
Fond mummy’s just kissed her ;
With scales she’ll now cope.
Joan seizes her fiddle,
Assaults it with vigor
Somewhere near the middle
(At least that’s her hope).
, Those strings take a mauling;
Your teeth go all gritted.
It’s simply appalling!
It curdles your gore. y
The screech gives you shudders ;
It’s like that emitted
By fummy whose rudder s
Been jammed in a door.
We’d all vote, with cheers, for
The painless destruction
Of such little dears, for
Quite just it would be —
Of course that’s provided
The kids making ruction
Were not those that bided
With you or with me.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
The last race, the.last round, the last
lap, the last innings for Snowy Baker,
an all-round sport known all round the
world. Jack London had his hero of
Burning Daylight a giant in strength
whose power stemmed from complete co-
ordination of mind and muscle. Snowy
was the same; anything he took on —•
and he excelled in 26 different sports—-
he mastered with uncanny competence
before passing on to the next. Though
expatriate in Hollywood for years, he
remained staunchly Australian to the end.
A colorful ambassador, for his country, a
sportsman all the way.
• e
Heading a team of world-known 8.8. C.
reporters, Godfrey Talbot will travel the
whole 46,000-odd miles of the Common-
wealth with the Royal party; his job,
mainly, straight news-coverage. Since
1948 Talbot’s been the 8.8. C. observer
accredited to Buckingham Palace, and is
one of the few who get therein un-
challenged. Sixteen years with 8.8. C., in
War II he covered the fighting in the
Western Desert and Italy, and got 0.8. E.
for it. A large and genial cove, he toured
Canada with the then Princess in 1951,
has a sister living in New Plymouth
(N.Z.), and hopes to meet, in Australia
some of those Diggers whose work he
reported at Alamein.
© •
“Machell”: Shifting across-harbor,
from Chief Staff Officer to the Flag-
Officer-in-charge to commanding-officer
of H.M.A.S. Penguin (the Balmoral
depot), Captain Claude Brooks, a solid,
Captain Kettle-type of destroyerman,
never yet seen (within the memory of
those still serving) without a luxuriant
black fungus covering his chin —and tie.
Though “Claudie” has been based ashore
of late, he’s seen his share of salt water.
First, in battleship Warspite (probably
the most famous battleship of two wars,
and renowned for gunnery), later in
command of the French destroyer Mistral,
in 1940. On Collins’s staff in Singapore
at the Fall, Brooks shifted to Ceylon,
there to join Admiral Somerville’s staff,
back on board his old address, Warspite.
Somerville was then preparing his hefty
bang at Sabang, in northern Sumatra.
Before war’s end Brooks was given com-
mand of the Australian Nizam, then a
new Fleet-destroyer. He’s .one of the
few remaining air-observers trained before
the introduction of the Fleet Air Arm.
Brother Leslie, also bearded, runs the
Naval Boom Depot at Waverton, up
under the Bridge.
• •
Keith Edward Bullen has the answer
to two-and-two—Professor, as he is, of
Applied Mathematics, at Sydney Univer-
sity. An Enzedder who has lectured in
his subject at Auckland University
College, Hull University (Eng.) and Mel-
bourne University, he holds doctorates in
both science and philosophy, and has
made a particular study of seismology
and the structure of the earth and other
planets. On those subjects he’s recently
turned out several books. The other day,
for his outstanding contributions to the
theory of seismology and the study of
what’s deep inside our revolving founda-
tion, he was awarded the Walter Burfift
Prize for 1953 by the Royal Society of
N.S.W. When not delving into structures
planetary, the prof, collects* coins and
medals —for a hobby, that is.
« •
On his ninth visit to Melbourne, Harry
Town, doyen of globe-trotters. Export-
manager until recently of a Manchester
(Eng.) textile-firm, he has travelled
2,350,000 miles in the last 50 years—the
odd 350,000 of that total by air—and has
ambled round the world 15 times. He
is 84.
• •
“8.M.”: Samuel Butler, author of
Erewhon and The Way of All Flesh, has
been in the New Zealand news of late.
He had five years on a sheep-run on
the Upper Rangitata River in the ’sixties,
and wrote Erewhon there. Dr. Joseph
Jones, of Texas University (U.S.), recently
made a pilgrimage to the Butler country.
He said Butler had been on the Texas
University reading-list consistently, and
he himself wasn’t returning to the States
till he had visited Butler's run, called
Mesopotamia. Relics of the author in
Christchurch Museum have been added
to by the gift of two watercolors by
Butler —one of Langar Rectory, Notting-
hamshire, where he was born in 1835 ;
the other a seascape. Two photographic
reproductions of these paintings have been
presented by a Butler admirer in Christ-
church to St. John’s College, Cambridge,
where Butler was educated.
Having managed for the A.B.C. in
Westraha and Queensland, Ewart Chappie
is having a shot at Victoria. Back from
leave in England, with an eyeful of tele-
vision, Chappie reckons, our present
sound-radio will hold its own against the
TV threat; partly because of the cost
of the new idea (in England about £2OOO
an hour for one programme), again be-
cause of the comparatively tremendous
distances TV in Australia will have to
cover. The prophet has had just under
30 years in radio, beginning as music-
director for 2FC when it was a company
show.
“Uramao”: Nelson, one of the oldest
dioceses in New Zealand, is parting with
its sixth bishop—Percival William
Stephenson, in charge there since 1940.
He graduated M.A. from Melbourne Uni-
versity in 1915, and Bachelor of Divinity
from London University in 1917. For
10 years he chased the heathen in Pesha-
war ; later became canon of St. John’s
Cathedral and examining chaplain to
the Archbishop of Rupertsland (Canada),
followed by a professorship at St. John’s
College in Winnipeg. Back in Australia,
he was Federal Secretary of the Church
Missionary Society for nine years till
1927, and, while in this post, was head-
mastership of Trinity Grammar School,
at Sydney’s Summer Hill. F. O. Hulme-
Moir, lately Archdeacon of Cumberland
(N.S.W.), relieves him in Nelson.
• e
Dick Hill, the Westralian Football
League’s new secretary, has had long
association with the game, as player and
administrator. He started hoofing in
junior League, joined the West Perth
club in 1937, captained his team in 1940,
and was vice-captain when Wests carried
olf the premiership in 1941. With another
game started overseas, Hill changed into
Army khaki, then transferred to the
R.A.A.F., serving as a pilot in England
and the Middle East. Back in mufti
he was treasurer and executive member
of his old club, League-delegate, and
for two years one of the League’s board
of umpires. Accountancy is his pro-
fession.
• •
Big and urbane, Werner Baer, the A.B.C.’s'
Supervisor of Music for N.S.W.—which State
contributes 75 per cent, of air music broadcast
from the Commission’s stations—-has the right
training, experience and versatility backing
him. Born in Berlin in 1914. he reached the
concert-platform very early, after learning the
piano from Artur Schnabel and the organ from
Dreyer, and, later, Straube —the lastnamed in
the direct line of great organists who have
filled the cantorship of St. Thomas’s, Leipzig,
the school and kjrk made famous by J. S.
Bach’s long incumbency there.
With his diploma for teaching and perform-
ance on both piano and organ in his pocket,
MUSICAL MASTER
Baer conducted the choir and was organist at
Berlin’s biggest synagogue. His skill as piano-
accompanist took him on tours with Schmidt,
Tauber and Kipnis. From 1934 to 1938 he
conducted, on tour, an orchestra dispensing
musicomedy. He moved on to Singapore,
where for two years he was municipal organ-
ist. In 1940 he came to Australia, and, after
the usual two-years’ labor service, spent the
next four giving concerts for the troops. He
has had a swag of pianoforte and song-
compositions published, and as a lecturer-
recitalist, with a delightful sense of humor, has
generously helped swell the coffers of many a
Sydney suburban musical group.
• ®
“S.W.K.”: Paul Schramm, who, at 61,
died of a heart-seizure while at the wheel
of the car that was pulling his hawking
caravan in Queensland, was a brilliant
pianist until some undefinable thing went
wrong with his pianism. In the latter
years of his concert-career he took the
easy road and coasted through the popular
classics. Also, he made the fatal error
of being too easygoing and familiar with
his audiences. He would make humorous
remarks about the work he was about
to play. Sydney audiences, used to coldly-
stiff celebrities, many of whom couldn t
play as well as Schramm, took this as in-
dicating that he was less than the mighty;
so his audiences fell off, and he himself
quietly drifted from the concert-platform.
An Austrian child-prodigy, Schramm was
doing concerto work under Europe’s top
conductors while still in bis teens; later
he toured extensively. He cast-up in
Australia seven years ago, and liked
it and us so much he made hereabouts
his permanent home.
e •
“Ek Dum’s” story:
Gwydir Federal electorate on December 19
will have a chance of sending ‘to Federal
Parliament one of the loftiest statesman Aus-
tralia has known in Archibald lan Allan, aged
37, Country-party candidate. His grandfather,
Sir William Allan, who was Liberal M.P. for
Gateshead in the Commons, was 6ft. 6in. long,
54in. round the chest, and owned a beard
POLITICAL ASPIRANT
which one of his Dundee colleagues in
blockade-running during the American Civil
War described as like “the doormat of Hades.”
The current Allan Parliamentary offering
(born Newcastle, N.S.W.) isn’t as vast all
over as yet; but he’s 6ft. 6Jin. high, which
will make even Sir Robert Garran look small,
and no doubt oratory will enlarge his chest
in time.
An old Shore boy who enlisted in 1939,
when employed with the C.S.R. in Fiji as an
overseer, A.I.A. served with the 2 /Ist Field
Coy. in Libya, Greece and Crete and with
Intelligence in Syria before a year’s illness
interrupted his military career. He was dis-
charged as a captain in 1946, and in 1949
became regional officer in charge of the
A.B.C.’s 2NU, and known to every farmer in
Gwydir as the introducer of the station’s
“Farm Breakfast Session.”
Widely travelled —having lived as a boy in
England and New Zealand and since visited
most parts of the Pacific —he has settled down
in Tamworth, where, among other things, he’s
an active member of Rotary and of the
C. of E. Girls’ School Council. A keen
swimmer (when he can find a stretch of water
long enough), he has a surf life-saving bronze
medallion.
• •
Desmond Bradley, of the Melbourne
musical Bradleys, returned to his home
last year with the blessing of his teacher,
Enesco (also Yehudi Menuhin’s teacher).
Enesco said the boy had exceptional
talent. Young Bradley gave several
recitals in Melbourne, with his mother
accompanying him at the piano and his
father, who was his first teacher, casting
proud eyes on him from the orchestra.
As is Melbourne’s wont when a local lad
makes good, he got a very lukewarm
reception. He has now just made a
brilliant debut in London at a Wigmore
Hall recital, of which London “Daily
Telegraph’s” critic said; “The lad is
already an outstanding violinist with a
big tone and uncommon technique. The
warmth and beauty of his lyrical ex-
pression gave proof of extraordinary
talent.”
•• « V
E. D. Shaw, of the Victorian Water
Commission, gets this year’s Kernot
Memorial Medal awarded by Melbourne
University for distinguished engineering
achievement —in his case the Eildon
project, one of the largest water-conserva-
tion jobs in the Southern Hemisphere;
Shaw is its chief-engineer. Joining the
Water Commission in 1909, after acquir-
ing high academic honors at Melbourne
Uni., he has been boss of most of the
State’s big moisture projects. He directed
the construction of the Hume reservoir
embankment, the Torrumbarry, Mildura
and Yarrawonga weirs and locks, the
Lauriston dam on the Cooliban and the
big irrigation-works in the Murray Valley.
Over £25,000,000 of public money has
passed through his hands.
“Pip Tok”: Appointed chief of the
Westralian H. R. Pilmer, a rangy,
agile six-footer who’s served 20 years in
the branch he now controls. Joining the
force after return from service against
Wilhelm with the 51st Battalion, he had
the routine run of country beats before
transfer to Perth. Experiences have in-
cluded three murder investigations, one
by a native at Moonlight Valley in the
Kimberleys, one at Kalgoorlie in 1938
and the third in a military camp at Dan-
darrigan. Off duty, he’s a flying addict;
he qualified for a civil nilot’s licence in
1937.
• o
T. W. Hogan, who marshalled the
Victorian forces in their war against the
’hoppers, is no tyro. He, conducted the
successful campaigns of 1946 and 1950
against the invaders from the north and
later went abroad to study the techniques
of other countries. Few Australians
know more about the habits of the
Locustidce family. He is senior ento-
mologist at the research-laboratory at
Burnley Agricultural College, Melbourne.
• ©
The Nuffield Foundation’s Australian
advisory committee has awarded travel-
ling scholarships to farmers H. St. C.
Brockway and A. C. Hookings. Offered
this year to landmen in S.A., W.A. and
the N.T., the awards will send the win-
ners to the U.K. for six-months’ study
of farming practice and conditions.
Brockway (35), hailing from Wagin
(W.A.), is especially interested in farm-
management and mechanisation as con-
cerns sheep and cereal-growing. Hook-
ings (40) runs a property at Tantanoola
(S.A.) —Corriedales and He reforms. The
Commonwealth Bank has made a grant
to help maintain the winners’ farms
when they head-off next month.
• •
Westralia’s new Deputy*-Director of
Agriculture, I. Thomas, is an Old Digger
with long experience of practical farm-
ing and administration. Now a high-
domed, square-chinned 62, he was born
at Liverpool (N.S.W.) and worked on
that State’s experimental farms at Cowra
and Nyngan before shifting to W.A. in
1913 to join the Chapman research-
station. Appointed manager there two
years later, he left to serve overseas with
the. 51st Bn., A.I.F. Since 1924 he’s been
Superintendent of Wheat Farming, play-
ing an active part in the expansion of
cereal-growing and the substantial in-
crease in the State’s wheat-production.
Much of his work concerned develop-
ment of light lands and establishment of
research-stations. In War II he was
chairman of the State Wheat Advisory
Commission, and of the Westralian
Barley Board.
Another Duntroon man moves in to
help chief-executive General Bridgeford
stage the Olympics in Melbourne.
Brigadier Cyril Elliott, 0.8. E., he has the
job of catering for and housing the
Olympiaqs. Fifty-four, he was trained
in Singapore and Quetta, and served with
distinction in War II —since when he has
been in charge of administration, Southern
Command. Also Professor Paton, Vice-
chancellor of Melbourne University, be-
comes chairman of the Fine Arts section.
• •
Into the Silence:
At 83, at Colac (Vic.), Archie M. Bryan,
windmill-maker. The winds of all States have
been turning his sails for the past 66 years.
He built his first at 17.
At 69, in Melbourne, Thomas Dunn, promin-
ent Mason. Close on 40 years in the Victorian
police-force, when he retired in 1944, he was
superintendent in charge of Melbourne Police
District. While at Russell-street headquarters
he compiled the present manual of police-
regulations.
In Melbourne, at 77, Harold Eric Brookes,
managing-partner (with brother Sir Norman)
of the' Queensland grazing concern, William
Brookes and Co., and executively connected
(also with Sir Norman and Herbert Brookes)
with the Australasian Paper and Pulp Co.;
director, also, of Australian Paper Manufac-
turers. One-time president of the Royal Vic-
torian Institute for the Blind, H.E. served with
a transport-section of the British Army m
World War I.
At Greymouth (N.Z.), Francis Edward
O’Neill, old-time professional lightweight; van-
quished only six times out of 94 bouts ranging
over New Zealand and Australia. He met
some hard punchers, among them Eugene
Voliare, the Frenchman by whom he was
defeated in Australia. Turned ref., O’Neill was
third-man in the bout between- Ambrose Palmer
and Alf Cleverley.
In Sydney, at 62, Charles Eric Munro, whose
career began in a cinema projection-room
(spool-boy) and ended with Hoyt’s Theatres
(managing-director). Owner also of a chain ot
country and suburban cinemas m N.S.W.,
Queensland and Victoria, he headed the
group which, in 1951, bought a controlling
interest in Macquarie Broadcasting Service.
A director of that company at the end, he
raced horses as an outside interest.


“COMING EVENTS....”


ABORIGINALITIES
been very lucky, and after I’d seen one
break I believed him.
r pHE costliest cargo of animals ever to
leave W.A. —that’s how, in an earlier
par., I described a consignment of racing
griffins from Fremantle to Siam. I didn’t
know how right I was until the ship finally
left port with roughly 220 horses on
board. Their cost totalled just over
£15,000 before being loaded. The boat is
chartered and sub-chartered, and the
latter fee is £BOO a day. As she was in
port for 70 days, while stalls were built
and the horses were loaded at the rate
of about six a day, and another 20-odd
days at sea, those horses will cost about
£90,000 to land zf Bangkok. That makes
them pretty expensive nags, considering
that they’re mostly station-hacks. — Broad-
way.
* * * #
“Lower Tops’l”: It takes foreigners to
introduce new ways. At Sorrento pier
(Vic.) I saw an Italian fisherman whose
ice-chest was three agricultural drain-
pipes lashed together with rope on the
floorboards. Mosquito-netting, attached
with rubber bands, covered the ends. It
was a hot day, but butter, food, and a
bottle of beer in the pipes was icy-cold.
The draught keeps the food cool, he told
me, and the method had been used for
centuries in his native land.
* * * *
“Bass”; Two reports on a fatality on
a Tasmanian beach agreed that the wave
which swept the lad to his death was a
freak ; but, while riiy Perth daily claimed
it swept up out of a choppy sea, the
A.B.C. announced that it rose from a
dead calm. The latter sounds right to
me. You’ll get that type of wave —they
call ’em “king” waves at Albany and
“dummy” breakers elsewhere —anywhere
along the Westralian west and south-
west coasts where there’s deep water near
reefs or shore. They rise from dead-
calm seas and sweep 20ft. to 30ft. up
“ We've run out of water.”
the rocks. After they’ve passed the sea
is dead-calm again, but while they last
they have the power of a miniature tidal-
wave. Fishing from a rowing-boat near
a reef about 150yds. offshore at Cottesloe
I had an uneasy moment every 20 minutes
or so when the boat would suddenly
rise about 6ft. Later a local told me
no one ever fished off “Dummy Reef.”
The bottom sloped quickly from 10ft. to
35ft., and the spot was noted for
these “dummy” breakers. He said I’d
“Derwent”; The wild bush-country of
Tasmania’s north-west coast has yielded
up a rare specimen of indigenous fauna:
the pigmy possum {Endornicia lepida).
Possessing many of a mouse’s charac-
teristics, it differs in having a longer,
more angular head and larger, heavy
ears. The pigmy feeds on young wild-
flowers and small insects, and generally
selects a dead tree as its home. This one
was found at Smithton, near the Roger
River.
* * * *
“The Missus”: The sheep in the pad-
dock near the house seemed restless, and,
knowing our own dogs were safely shut
up, I suspected town dogs
might be worrying them. It
was a beautiful moonlit
night and I could see the
sheep bunched on the flat,
while a lithe black shape,
belly to ground, held the
little mob. When they
looked like breaking, their
move was anticipated, and
their keeper was there be-
fore they could get clear.
The animal, which I had
suspected would be a small
fox, saw me as I approached
and came bounding towards
me! It was Tarzan, one of
the household’s sleek black
tomcats. I can’t decide if
he was slightly moon-
touched or merely putting
into practice examples set
him by the sheep-pup.
“Old-timer”: It was a long, hot
mustering, and Little Curl developed
saddle-sores (sweat-boils, some call
them). Our standard remedy was
vinegar, as an astringent and drier. Curl
dabbed on vinegar. Two days later a
patch of his rear-elevation was flaming
and Curl couldn’t sit. Fleming recom-
mended phenyle. This was applied. A
maddening itch resulted. Pocketknife
suggested Stockholm-tar. Curl called
him names. Dry sulphur was the cook’s
proposition. Curl fell for it. The itch
vanished and large blisters came up,
burst, and ended in flaming little pimples.
The boss told him to dust them with
tobacco-ash, which Curl did and then
ruShed screaming into the bush. Cap-
tured, he was loaded into a plane and
sent south. A fortnight later he re-
turned, painless and itchless, but with
a permanent scar on the spot. Showing
it to us, he growled resentfully: “The
quack said if you blokes minded y’r own
business it would have healed up by
itself. Now look at me. Disfigured!”
“Aw, what are y’ whingein’ about?”
Fleming said. “Who’s goin’ f sete it?”
Little Curl gave Fleming a long, hot
stare. “It’s not seem’ it,” he declared
passionately, “it’s knowin’ it’s there!”
’ * * * *
“Kelms”: Those lilies “gone bush,”
which “Macquarie” “found so pleasing to
the eye” (B. 28/10/’53), are probably in
process of becoming a curse. An infesta-
tion of them around Busselton (W.A.) is
a major headache to farmers and rate-
payers, who can’t enthuse with visitors
about the “beautiful snowy blooms.”
The lilies have become established along
watercourses and in damp areas —good
summer land —and they’re spreading
rapidly. To eradicate a patch you have
to dig out every plant right down to the
small roots, cart them away to dry ground,
and burn them. Vigorous growth will
start again from even the smallest piece
left. Therefore they’re as hard to clear
as heavy timber. You can’t use bull-
dozers on lilies.
» * * #
“Elies”: My experience has usually
been that, rather than embarrass his
impecunious master by “nipping” him for
a quid, as one bit “Mero” (B. 18/11/’53),
the New Guinea boy would pinch it and
let his conscience wrestle with the con-
sequences. But once, before the war, at
a native school near Rabaul, I struck
an exception. All the pupils and native
teachers had departed to their villages
for the Christmas holidays except one
of the teachers, who wandered about for
days after the rest had gone. Several
times I spotted him from afar, in and
out of the empty buildings, or down on
the beach gazing mournfully across the
harbor, but he always avoided me* At
last I cornered and questioned him.
Hanging his head sheepishly and scratch- 1
ing at the pumice-dust with one big toe,
he said he had been gambling at “lucky.”
Then out it came, in “Mero’s” exact
words, “Masta, I would like to pwe you
one pound.” I never got it back, as I
haven’t seen him since. And, dammit, I
couldn’t even claim it as a charitable
gift for income-tax deduction purposes—•
and it undoubtedly was that.
• * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: References lately to the
Cbolgardie (W.A.) water-scheme recall
my own boyhood associations with the
great project in its earliest years. My
late father, G. D. MacCabe, surveyed
the foundations of . No, 1 pumping-
station at the weir at Mundaring and
(the station then in operation) I still
recall the thrill of walking fascinated
along the permanent steel scaffoldings or
catwalks over the gigantic
polished pumps topped
with great governors slid-
ing swiftly back and forth
just under my feet, while
the plungers punched mil-
lions of gallons of water
per day at high pressure
on the first stage of the
350-mile lift to the gold-
fields. I believe these
pumps were the largest of
their kind in the world at
the time. On one of my
many visits to No. I—l
knew the staff there as well
as I knew the Dad—l descended
on the spiral iron ladder to the
bottom of the inspection-well in the
wall of the weir. I remember having
to exert all the persuasive powers of a
persistent son to obtain parental sanction
for this exploit; hesitatingly granted only
provided X made the descent between two
members of the staff. Until someone
chooses to dispute me I claim to have
been the only juvenile to have seen
Mundaring weir from this acute angle.
I understand the wall has been raised
several feet in later years, but prior
to this added impedance to the waters
the thunderous cascading of the overflow
in flood-time provided a spectacle the
grandeur of which was probably un-
rivalled in Australia. Many hundreds
of people came up the tedious zigzag
railway from Perth at weekends specially
to view it.
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: Recently a vessel of the
R.A.N. caused consternation along the
Port Phillip foreshore by indulging its
four-inch guns at target-practice. The
dailies were deluged with phone-calls
reporting earthquakes, atom-bombs and
frightened children and were full next
day of letters of indignant protest. A
few days later five fishermen came in
with four tons of snapper, worth £3OOO
—a record haul. There have been
various speculations as to what brought
the shoals so far inside the Heads at
this time. In a “Society” par. of Novem-
ber 13, 1929, a Bulletin correspondent
wrote: “Fishermen of Port Phillip Bay
had reason to bless the Australian Navy
during its recent mobilisation in the
vicinity of the Melbourne Cup. The
practice gunfire drove the snapper in-
shore in shoals. Huge catches have been
made within a quarter-of-a-mile of the
beach. It has been the best season for
20 years.” Nobody seems to have con-
nected the two things this time.
* * * *
“Heresone”: As “Brick E.” found out
(B, 11/11/ ’53), dead astern is the least-
safe spot in the neighborhood of a
snake. The average Joe can strike
backwards almost his own length.
Forward he moves fast, though not as
fast as he seems to do, but he can only
strike forward if he first draws back his
head, and then only to the extent of his
slack. Sideways he can reach about a
third of his • length. The best place is
to one side and slightly behind. Bring
the waddy down about two-thirds of
the way from bead to tail, breaking his
back. But don’t cut him clean in half,
or you will find the front end surpris-
ingly full of fight for a time.
•t.• • • •
“Kelms”: In attacking snakes a long-
handled weapon may possess a certain
safety-factor. (B. 11/11/’53), bu* a dry,
and hence rigid, stick can be dangerous.
Niue times out of ten a blow at a snake
is aimed in a downward sweep, and if
the point of a rigid stick strikes the
ground beyond the snake it’s a miss—at
the best. At the worst the stick breaks,
ja.rring the wielder’s hand and leaving
him unarmed. A thin, green switch, well-
placed, wifi break a snake’s back; a
pliable cane is better. Better still is a
3ft. length of heavy-gauge fencing-wire.
But for choice I’d take a stockwhip. Thus
armed I’d face a charging snake with
confidence.
♦ * * * ,
“Sack”: Some strange things happen
.in the bush. One time I was walking
through some pretty tall timber when a
magpie started to kick up a row about
something. I looked around and saw the
reason: a fair lump of a goanna was
climbing a tree that had the maggie’s nest
in it. The maggie kept darting in and
stabbing at the go., but every time he did
the old goanna would square up, make a
bite back, then go on climbing. He’d got
to within a few feet of the nest when the
maggie came in like a suicide-bomber,
I heard a crack like a bullet going into a
post, then there was a mad mix-up of bird
and reptile, with wings flapping and tail
thrashing and feathers and bark floating
down. When things quietened down I
saw the rftaggie had stabbed the goanna
through the eye and pinned him to the
tree. A couple of years later I was going
through that bush again, and there they
were —both skeletons, still pinned there.
THE HILLS
O hever to need to return to the brooding
night
Where fear eternally circles as the eagle its
prey:
Up here the wild, bright hills toss their dazzle
of light
Like brilliant thoughts against the morbid grey
Of impending night ... I love the small, round
trees
That bob like apples in the wind . . . Cast
in heat
The hawk seems to swing from the sun on
an arrogant breeze;
The fox is pleased that he must steal his meat;
The ant scales the coiled snake with indifferent
ease;
The crow and wren stand side by side to eat.
N.S.W.
OLGA SCHLUNKE.


Relief from GOUT,
RHEUMATISM
and other conditions which cause pain, swelling
and inflammation of the joints and limbs
Don’t be mistaken. Scientific research shows that pain, swelling or inflammation of
the joints and limbs, particularly the hands, elbows, knees and feet, are usually
the result of a ‘Gouty’ condition, and the only way to find relief is to correctly
treat the cause of this complaint. COLCHISONE is the only treatment of its kind
available in Australia; the only treatment containing Colchicum, Guiacol and Apiurn
in a balanced formula, prepared specifically for that purpose. COLCHISONE
brings almost immediate relief from pain, reduces swelling and inflammation
and brings back complete freedom of movement. Get COLCHISONE
TODAY. There is NO substitute.
COLCHISONE
The pale blue GOUT & RHEUMATIC PILLS
FROM ALL CHEMISTS
p . _ 17/6 Small Size
rlce ‘ 30/- Large Economy
If your chemist cannot supply, write to KICKAKD MEDICAL.
PRODUCTS PTY. LID., 21 Oxford Street, Sydney.
T ET those uninitiated Aboites who
have been turning up their noses at
jugged-hare have a go at “venison,”
which may less-violently assault their
olfactory nerves and prosaic palates;
and it needn’t be deer. Once, in n.-e.
Victoria, we shot a marauding deer and
passed on part of it to the local hotel
proprietress, an excellent cook. It was
an immense success, and in such demand
that she continued' to serve “haunch of
venison” for weeks. But no deer could
be stretched out to those proportions. I
was let into the secret later: she hung
legs of mutton, not until they fell off
the hooks, but for a precisely-judged
time to impart the ideal degree of gamey-
ness and tenderness ; then, with appropri-
ate spicing and a dash of wine, they .were
encased in dough and cooked. No
vestige of high flavor or succulence was
lost. The real deer had nothing on it,
and epicures not in the joke were urg-
ing another shooting-party. — Emjai.
« » * #
“Tusitala”: A Sunbury (Vic.) farmer’s
wife went home to find her cat nearly
buried in a bowl of dough. She had left
the bowl by the fire, intending to make
bread when she returned. Creeping under
the cloth spread over it the. cat had
curled up and gone to sleep. The dough
rose till the fummy s unusual bed nearly
became its tomb.
**• * *
“Keima”: Apart from the considera-
tion that those thirst-conscious Aboliars
who have lately been lamenting a possible
future shortage of water in the world
would seem to have overlooked the
probability that there will surely always
“I believe the magpies are pretty bad at the thirteenth.”
be beer, there will, of course, always be
as much water as there is today; it cannot
disappear, as will vanish one day the
w'orld’s reserves of oil. Large quantities
of water, however, can be locked-up in
different forms —icefields, glaciers, etc.
—and be unavailable for human use.
Apropos, increased population in itself
will lock-up more water, for man himself
is made of more than half water. As
Sir Arthur Shipley wrote in his Life,
“Even the Archbishop of Canterbury
comprises 59 per cent, of water.” Still,
no matter how much world population
“ Alive-oh !”
increases, it will not have any appreciable
effect on water-supplies. Drought, drying-
up of lakes and rivers, and desert-
encroachment have other causes,
* * * *
’, „ _
Edx : Salmon Gums comes very
near the truth in his theory of the
formation of the W.A. gnamma-holes
(B. 11/11/ ’53), but he is astray in ascrib-
ing the mechanical action to the tides.
These holes are only formed in the
granite-belts, and it is therefore evident
that they date from long after the land
had risen from the sea, if it ever was a
sea-bed. The holes are formed much
in the manner described, but by willy-
willies. Advancing across the granite,
the cyclonic disturbance drags a loose
boulder along until it strikes some
obstruction or unevenness in the granite
surface. The stone then begins to rotate
rapidly in the one spot and soon wears
a slight depression, which is the start
of the gnamma-hole, and from which
it is never subsequently dislodged. The
willy-willies of countless millennia con-
tinue the wearing action, at the same
time removing the “fines.” When the
stone wears out the action ceases until,
perhaps centuries later, another stone
being dragged along falls into the hole
and carries it on.'
“Archaen”: “K.R.” misses the point
(B. 18/11/’53).. It isn’t a question of
new elements existing somewhere out in
space. We’re now pretty certain we
know them all. A new kind of matter
is a very different thing, and we have
proof that one kind does exist. Many
of the bright stars we see are not a single
body but a pair revolving around each’
other, with gravitational attraction ex-
actly balanced by centrifugal force,
Some of these twin stars consist of a
large one and a very small one, yet both
must be nearly the same weight, as is
revealed by their orbits about each other,
Sirius has a small companion whose
weight shows that it is composed of
matter 50,000 times as dense as water,
but the twin of Procyon is composed of
matter so heavy that a matchbox of it
would weigh hundreds of tons.
* * * * <
“Warrabulla”: The Merino’s passionate
determination to die (B. 18/11/’53) is
freely demonstrated when it’s being
rescued from the drying-up dam in which
it and scores of its fellows have become
bogged. Balancing above a green, evil-
smelling and seemirtgly-bottomless quag-
mire, you extract a would-be suicide
with a loud sucking noise and totter with
it towards firm ground. A foot or so
from' safety you stumble, plunge one leg
in up to the knee, and you’re lucky to
get your boot back. But you make it.
Ashore, the woolly salvage flatly declines
to stand, up until you’ve, battled with it
for about ten minutes, agrees at last to
do so, and then, when you’re on the way
out to " save another, it rushes past you at
about 20 knots and hurls • itself into an
even-stickier patch of mud further out
than it was before.
„** * ♦
“Emjai”: Road deaths among magpies
aren’t as high as may appear to “Horse-
less H.” (B, 11/11/’s3>. Mostly they
occur among inexperienced younger
birds, who delay their take-off too long
or try to fly straight ahead. The com-
parative immunity of peewits is under-
standable. They build a mud-nest in
trees alongside water, and hence the
young rarely get to the highways, while
the oldsters, for their part, have learned
when and how to skip. The magpie in
cleared country frequents the timbered
verges of the roads, ’ but, for one that
might be risking the bitumen, hundreds
would be after the worms, grubs and
other small life in grass and debris.
Fatalities, therefore, though under
prominent notice, are an insignificant
proportion. If “H.H.” were to get a
horse and poke back from the high-
ways, through the open-timber country
and around homesteads, he would have
no fear of eradication of the magpie
population. Maggie is protected, has no
vices and no natural enemies, and,
barring areas where poison-baits take
toll, should continue to increase and
multiply, to the glory of the bush and
the of overrated imported
singers.
SPARROWS
Bird with drab bird breaks
A communal crust,
Leavening with bright flakes
The gutter’s dust.
And a bird there whets his beak
On a stone’s edge,
And a bird here, fanning, steps
. Stair-flights to the hedge.
Here’s a fellowship to follow:
A bob of birds
Lunching with a cherry chatter
Among communal words!
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.
RARE FAUNA ... A. H. CHISHOLM
AUSTRALIANS who appreciate beauty
and take pride in their remarkable
wild-life should be grateful to The
Bulletin for publishing (23/9/’53) a
plea for the preservation of vanishing
native pigeons. That article came to the
notice of the Fauna Protection Panel
of N. S. Wales, and, as a result, the
Governor-in-Council has declared four
species of Australian pigeons to be rare
fauna.
The effect of this proclamation is to
give special protection to the birds, since,
under the Fauna Protection Act 1948,
anyone convicted of killing any example
of rare fauna is liable to heavy penalties,
including imprisonment for a term up to
six months.
Thus, for the first time, four birds in
one group have become associated with
individual creatures of distinction (notably
the lyrebird and mallee-fowi, the koala
and platypus) in being given the most
stringent official protection obtaining in
any part of Australia. This action, more-
over, has been taken in face of the know-
ledge that the four pigeons are regarded
as “good eating.” It is refreshing to find
a governmental authority rejecting the
idea that any wild creature, however
rare, may be slaughtered if it has the mis-
fortune to be edible. -
The four pigeons to be “declared” are
the large and handsome wompoo (some-
times termed “Bubbly Jock”), the deli-
cately beautiful red-crowned and purple-
crowned pigeons, and the showy bird
commonly known as “Baldy,” otherwise
the white-headed pigeon. All of them
denizens of coastal scrubs (mainly from
the Newcastle area northward), and all
eaters of native fruits and berries, these
birds have been persistently shot in their
feeding-trees during many years, and,
quite clearly, rigid protection is essential
to preservation in each instance.
Whether the “rare-fauna” declaration
will prove wholly effective remains to be
seen. It is, of course, one thing to impose
safeguards of the kind and another to
enforce them. The most useful develop-
ment (and doubtless the Fauna Panel
realises this) would be a spot of definite
action —the convicting of one of those
light-fingered fellows who don’t take pro-
tective laws seriously. Actually inflicted,
as distinct from being merely threatened,
even a relatively mild kick from a special
penalty would convince pot-hunters, and
all others who need convincing, that the
killing of rare birds and mammals in
New South Wales is now distinctly un-
prbfitable.
Incidentally, it is to be hoped that the
New South Wales example will 'be fol-
lowed by Queensland, which State also
possesses most of the creatures figuring as
rare fauna, but which, regrettably, is not
enforcing protective laws nearly as well
as it once did. The particular needs in
the North are (a) better control in
general; (b) restraining of Southern
Europeans from killing every bird they
meet; and (c) strict conservation of the
Torres Strait pigeons, those handsome
birds which in their great flocks were once
a striking feature of the tropic coast, but
wdiich in recent years have been shock-
ingly ravaged.


THE
Australian Provincial Assurance
ASSOCIATION LTD.
(Incorporated in N.S. W.)
at d the%nd ° f Mr ' ?• 3 • Thompson, to Shareholders
at the 42nd Annual General Meeting held on Friday, 27th November, 1953.
Tear l ! ™,vL ID f tile adop * ion °J the Balance Sheet and the Directors’ Report for the
jear, I wish to comment on the year’s operations as follows:
.New Easiness. The volume of new business written during the vear less
re-assurances, amounted to £1,644,775 and compares with £1,754,722 f0r’1952
° Tk i. ,3S i? for 1951, an average over the three years of £1,692,628,
TolnmfhSw? 1 ! m writing new business, has not been to achieve great
volume, but rather to concentrate on certain of the better types of assurances.
for i 952 t 0 inc , rease > viz - £Bs ° cqmpared with £BOO
d d £672 for 1951 - Thls upward movement has been progressive over
the past seven years, viz., from £323 to £B5O. progressive over
Expense Kate. Shareholders will be pleased to know that the expense rate
througliout' the under despite the rising level of costs
_ 9 omm ! ssions and expenses of management this year absorbed 25% of the
respectively nC for 6 1952 total compared with 27% Ind 2 S
Sv n'c!”! Iz. + 1952 - , Thls improvement follows the implementation of Board
P l i yearS - to concentra te on the better type of new business,
ovn Experience. Death Claims represented 43% of the amount ;
50%°for’ 1Q^ C l° r +| UiS t u th - e valuation tables > and compares with 49% for 1952 and
- 1 0 T. showing an improvement over the previous two years.
a**vsass ja*— - •• -
Taxi 1 earned* rate of interest (i.e., after deducting Income
) Q on the Statutory Life Fund (including reserve Funds} was £3/14/4
per cent, compared with £3/3/5 per cent, for the previous Year. 7 7
to the f i to Shareholders recent years. I have drawn particular attention
Tin a r h ri- a ! d / h h have come trom investment in freehold properties, and the
more d profltaMe* chaifnelsf r th t Se ipvestm ente and transfer the funds into
wfivf Z°“l a r Tbls POlley has been vigorously pursued year by year
tvoe of 194 9’ ItB'9\Df 1 t 8 ' 9 \ Df the Company’s assets was represented
, 8 type of investment, that percentage has now> been reduced to 10.6% During
Sfs.i”.n™ d d%S/ he a ”“ nt taVe * d ™ " d “« «»••«. » ih. B S
depreciation 6 wa^^lC!.pPmmonwealth the yield from these investments, after
appreciation, was almost nil due to a number of causes which could have been
removed by a greater sense of equity towards the property owner who appears to
oX seetiof )°H bear the b ™ nt of 4116 Plenary eondttioM from wMch most
other sections of the community get relief by automatically higher prices.
felt 600 ”n m l C effect ° f allowin S these conditions to continue is already being
felt, and will be more armarmt +v.„ <„+ ... . , , . zr °
residential accommodation.
Bars? irpL.. -S.r3f-.as-S SLSrsr-M&f
ffisrsifa.' ,hiB ”*» - ■ b »» -> *&&&
desnii hlS th^“ a^ in % the same rates as have be en Paid for a number of years
despite the rising costs of management due to inflationary conditions from which,
dae , to + unaltered premium rates, Life Assurance Companies have no relief As an
offset to these costs, however, the Board has succeeded in obtaining a greater net
me in St this CddrSs° m mvestment of the Association’s funds as already rlported by
Profit & Loss Account.
Aceo.,. lor~,T,r.hoJ el™? ifTe S 3 ±
t>7. the Aoclden . t Department and the returns from investment of Shareholders’
SintTslClX’AltooS to’L'S” ’ i ‘ 3 ’ 786 ‘" er , *“ ng ““ Spec “
over toTe n .mSS‘Tth“ M *° £l ° 2 ’ 194 ' *” ” f*
profit , of . £43,766 compares with £42,944 in 1952 and £40,221 for
1901, and represents just over 12% on the paid-up capital.
be lirtp 1 d I frnm d fi<y T tn e '7?°/ ard f ’ S e . c ° m “ e ndation this year is that the year’s dividend
leaC ? was paid ln Jul y last as an interim dividend,
leaving 4i/o as the final dividend for payment after the Annual Meeting today,
a™!.,; f-i • Dg °L the dividend is in accordance with Board policy, as fully
in my address to Shareholders. last year, when I said that consideration
had been given to raising the rate, but determination was postponed until next
year on account of the unstable economic outlook.
The outlook twelve months ago in regard to inflation was very uncertain due to
many factors, but principally to the steep cost spiral which the quarterly basic wage
adjustments w.ere causing. Resulting high costs of production were causing a state
3S - U l the future ° f industry in AustX, rd, g although
!f o hiK - a l nty \ S by - no means removed * it is definitely lessened by events of a
stabilising character in recent months.
, , lvo A ®^ s ‘ i Shareholders will be interested in the favourable movements which
have teken plage during the year in the Association’s assets, as follows-
ofh J S t decreased by £128.642, whilst there have been increases of the
other assets as follows: Loans on Mortgage—£3o7l; Loans on Policies— £12,466 ;
Commonwealth Securities—£34B,9o6 ;/R.Z. Government Securities—£4s,464- Semi-
Government Securities—£lo2,922 ; Debentures—£46s9 ; Ordinary Shares— £34,274 •
Preference Shares—£29,632; Other Assets—£los7 ’
These movements are better revealed
over the past five years:—•
Freeholds ..
Loans on Mortgage
Loans on Policies
Government Securities..
Local and Semi-Govt. Securities
Shares in Companies
Other Investments
Other Assets
Reserves. The General Reserve now stands at £145,000 and the Investment
Reserve at £120,618, a total of £265,618, which is good cover for any unforeseen
contingencies. .
In view of the severe strain to which the Australian economy has been put over
a number of years, your Directors have felt it their duty to build up reserves
of this nature in the interests of Shareholders, rather than pay maximum dividends
Even with the present signs of growing stability, the problems ahead of Australia
are great when one considers the threat of competition from countries whose costs
are so much lower, and for which tariffs and other expedients, such as devaluation
of the currency, are but false remedies. Greater labour efficiency at all levels,
together with lower taxation, are the true remedies.
The present satisfactory position of earnings and reserves augurs well for the
Company’s ability to maintain the present 75% dividend and to continue to build up
a satisfactory , reserve ratio.
~ Conclusion. Again. I should like, as in past years, to record appreciation of
the loyal and efficient service of the General Manager, Chief Medical Officer, Actuary,
Branch Managers, Agency Manager, Secretary, Accountant and indeed all the staff
without exception who have given of their best to the growing demands of the
Association’s business.
The ALL-BRITISH
(onmmghmut
O&nd, t/ie
va/ae
No. 28
47/6 .
No. 58
60/-
7ke Tenmtk
Mcriwei&ruA HU)/
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD., LONDON
S. W. RAMSAY
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
OTHER
MODELS
No. 60 65/-
No. 388 42/6
No. 85 35/-
No. 70 30/-
DINKIE 25/-
Business. Rollery. Etc.
OIL-STRIKE IN W.A.
()N Friday, December 4, it was
announced in San Francisco
that the joint U.S.-Australian
enterprise drilling for oil at
Rough Range, about 22 miles
south of Learmonth, on Ex-
mouth Gulf (W.A.), had, in a
25-hour test, produced at the rate
of 23 barrels of oil an hour
through a quarter-inch pipe. The
oil came from oil-sands found
between 3605 ft. and 3620 ft. in
the bore, and is described as be-
ing a very waxy, high-grade
crude, with a paraffin base,
similar to Pennsylvania oil. The
drilling co., West Australian
Petroleum Pty., Ltd., has now
sealed off the 3605 ft. level and
is drilling to greater depths (in
the same hole) in search of other
oil-sand layers. The drill is
capable of reaching below
The oil-sands from which the
test was made represent a com-
paratively narrow stratum (15ft.),
but to have struck such a flow in
the first wildcat hole drilled, and
at such a shallow depth, is highly
encouraging. Geological and
geophysical prospecting suggests
large areas with as much surface
promise as was offered at Rough
Range.
Dr. Raggatt, secretary of
the Department of National
Development and a petroleum
geologist who has made a par-
ticular study of the area, says
the type of oil-sand in which the
oil has been found occurs over
a large area in n.-w. Australia
between Carnarvon and Onslow.
The estimated flow from No. 1
well is already at the rate of
about 20,000 imperial gallons a
day.
Dr. N, H. Fischer, chief
geologist of the Bureau of
Mineral Resources, said: “The
strike is not a bonanza by any
means—its importance is that it
makes other structures look good.
, There are dozens of other struc-
tures, some of them huge. The
bureau did all the basic work
on which the drilling was based.”
The drill was spudded-in early
in September. On October 27
it was announced by W.A. Pet-
roleum that No, 1 bore had
reached 3900 ft. Production was
to schedule, and geological for-
mations were what had been ex-
pected.
Following this matter-of-fact
announcement the then Is.-paid
shares in Ampol Exploration,
which holds a one-fifth interest
in W.A. Petroleum, streaked up
to 16s. on the afternoon of the
27th. They later went over 205.,
and though it was officially re-
ported on November 5 that a
waxy residue of no prospective
commercial value had been taken
from the bore (at the level from
which oil later came), the shares
dropped only temporarily, and in
recent weeks have been selling
at 165.-17 s.
After the hole had been* drilled
to 3900 ft., it was decided to
make a further test of the oil-
sands at 3605-3620 ft, this time*
with a cemented hole, so that
more pressure could develop.
This produced the results which
have had such a 'sensational
effect throughout Australia.
The discovery was made about
three weeks before the public
announcement, and, prior to
testing of the crude oil in the
U.S.A., only the Mines Minister
and Premier of W.A. were let
into the secret.
Following the oil-strike an-
nouncement on December 5
Ampol Exploration shares (now
paid to 25.). went to 98s. in
Sydney and £6 ss. in Melbourne.
Ampol Exploration, Ltd.,
holds a one-fifth interest in the
A shares of West Australian
Petroleum Pty. The other four-
fifths are held by the California
Texas Corporation (which is
controlled by Standard Oil of
California and the Texas Cor-
poration, of U.S.A.). Up to
January 31, 1953, there had been
an outlay of £1,227,227 by W.A.
Petroleum. Expenditure for the
current calendar year is esti-
mated at £675,000|, including
£450,000 for drilling.
With an issued capital of
4,000,000 ss. shares, of which
2,800,000 vendors’ shares (issued
to Ampol Petroleum, Ltd.) are
fully-paid and the remainder
(the kind currently dealt with on
’Change) paid to 25., Ampol
is capitalised in a fashion
by which a rise of a shilling or
two a share puts a huge valua-
tion on the W*A. oil-prospecting
venture. Ampol’s four million
shares represent a one-fifth in-
terest ; W.A. Petroleum’s capi-
tal may, for market purposes, be
treated as being worth approxi-
mately five times that of Ampol.
(There are B shares also in W.A.
Petroleum, but at present they
have no right to participate in
profits.)
Every rise of a shilling a share
in Ampol Exploration means a
rise of £1 million in the valua-
tion of the field.
If £5 is the ruling, market for
Ampol Exploration shares, then
the market capitalisation of the
field becomes £lOO million. At
this stage that is a very steep
valuation.
Ampol Petroleum, Ltd., which
has a paid capital of £2,040,000
in 8,158,000 ss. shares, had a
great deal to do with the finan-
cial and operational side of the
W.A. oil quest, attracting ffi©
California Texas interests to the
area, and participating in the
flotation of W.A. Petroleum as
well as Ampol Exploration. The
ratio of Exploration shares held
by the Petroleum co. to its own
capital is a little over one in
three. It has recently paid a 10
p.c. div. from its imported-oil
distribution activities.
W.A. Petroleum holds explora-
tion rights, around the entire
coastline of W.A. down to Cape
Leeuwin, totalling 325,000 square
miles, and including practically
all the sedimentary deposits in
W.A., excepting a 550-square- |
mile area held in - the Desert
Basin, and including the Nerrima
Dome, east of Broome, by
Freney Kimberley. The Rough
Range proposition was summed-
up in B. 4/11/ ’53 as “an attrac-
tive potential oil-structure by
Australian standards, and the
organisation exploring it is
thoroughly experienced and com-
petent.”
Oil Search, Ltd., which em-
ployed Dale Condit to survey
the North-west Basin in 1934
and 1935, transferred its activi-
ties to Papua in 1938, and, in
view of a sudden interest in its
scrip following the Exmouth
Gulf strike, has announced that
it relinquished its Westralian
holdings several years ago.
The precise terms of W.A.
Petroleum’s prospecting licence
from the W.A. Government are
not yet known, but the agree-
ment, whatever its conditions, is
reported to be “long-term.” At
this point it appears to have oil-
prospecting rights in W.A. pretty
well sewn up. The Ampol pros-
pectus said “the relevant legisla-
tion provides satisfactory condi-
tions and assures to the co. its
rights to develop its areas to the
fullest extent in the event of the
discovery of oil.”
The Australian £
T ET it be put to the credit of
the Associated Chambers of
Manufactures that that body
has opposed any further de-
valuation of the Australian
pound. Mr. Latham Withall,
director of the organisation, said
that it had asked the Federal
Government not to depreciate
the currency, as any further de-
preciation would result in still
greater inflation of the Common-
wealth’s internal price-structure.
Australia has many cost prob-
lems that will not be solved by
currency manipulation. Their
solution lies solely in greater
output in return for the weekly
pay-envelope, and in increased
managerial efficiency. Trans-
port costs also have to be
reduced.
In Melbourne lately there has
been considerable “buzz” con-
cerning possible relaxing of ex-
change controls. The story now
is that the exchange-rate may be
freed within certain limits—say
between £122 10s. and £127 10s.
That could possibly happen in
time. But it is unlikely that the
Federal Government will take
any action deliberately calcu-
lated to increase the “exchange-
premium” at this point in its
programme of “putting value
back into the pound.” The pre-
sent is a time to face realities.
And there is a general election
looming.
Freney Kimberley Oil
■pRENEY Kimberley Oil Co.,
has offered shareholders on
the register at Nov. 27 530,000
6s. shares on the basis of one
for one held. Another 360,000
are offered to the public, and
80.000 were taken firm.
The amount of capital asked
for —£291,000 in total—is, in the
opinion of the directors, “no-
where near sufficient to success-
fully carry out the drilling pro-
gramme,” but it would cover
expenses preliminary to any
drilling. (Ampol Petroleum
estimated the cost of one year’s
drilling at Exmouth Gulf at
£450,000.) Without the new
capital the co. might have diffi-
culty in retaining possession of
its areas in the W.A. Kimberleys
region.
[At Freney’s annual meeting
in Perth on December 4 share-
holders decided to increase the
co.’s nominal capital to
£1,500,000 by the creation of
3.500.000 new shares of 6s. each,
to be issued at the discretion of
the directors. Chairman C. C.
Flower said that *R. J. Dumas,
Co-ordinator of Works in W-A.,
had agreed to join the board.
The co. would “resume drilling
immediately” ; it may take over
the oil-drilling rig owned by
the Commonwealth Government
and now stored in Melbourne.]
Freney Kimberley has done a
lot of oil-exploration in the
West since the early 1920’5.
It put down a hole south of the
Fitzroy River, where it reached
a depth of 2000 ft., with a cable-
tool outfit in 1923 and recovered
a few blobs of asphaltic material.
Freney then moved to the Poole
Range, about 100 miles east-
south-east, and drilled further
tests, the deepest of which /
reached 3264 ft. The last well
to be drilled by Freney was at
Nerrima, where a depth of
4271 ft. was attained in 1943,
using a Government - owned
rotary-rig. The work was sus-
pended by Commonwealth
order, but unsuccessful attempts
have since been made to deepen
the hole.
Freney has chosen a psycho-
logical moment to raise new
capital. Just prior to the W.A.
Petroleum oil-strike at Rough
Range its 6s. “old” shares were
selling at 4s. Last week they
soared to 17s.


The calculated risks
of prayer
Prayer lets us see our true
selves —but will we like what
we see? It can make us more
Christ-like —but do we honestly
want to be as selfless as He
was, in a world that worships
success? Our prayers for clean
hearts may be answered but
do we really want to be pure
in spirit?
In December Reader’s Digest,
Pastor Frank Halliday Ferris
poses searching questions we
should ask ourselves before
praying questions -that can
help us find lasting comfort
and assurance in prayer.
Also in December Reader’s
Digest: 28 other stimulating
articles condensed from world's
leading magazines and current
books. Don’t miss your copy
now 1/6 all newsagents
and bookstalls.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO NOEL'RICHARD ALLAN late of -32
Warwick Street Hurstville New South
Wales—TAKE NOTICE that ESMA MAR-
GARET ALLAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4394, of 1953 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street on or before the 11th Febru-
ary 1954 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from McCOY, GROVE
& ATKINSON, Solicitors, of‘lo Castle-
reagh Street. Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
LINKING
MANUFACTURERS
i <■ ■ vyv
> — 3 • ywv
s*W
WwW
r“
w«wW
■■ J
WITH
MARKETS
New markets and new sources of supply are
constantly being uncovered through A.N.Z. Bank’s
trade Enquiry Service.
This service, operated through thousands of A.N.Z.
Bank's agents in all parts of the world makes a
most important contribution toward the maintenance
and expansion of Australia’s oversea trade.
A.N.Z. Bank’s Trade Enquiry Service is available
to Australian businessmen through the Manager of
the Bank's nearest branch.
A-N-Z
W
AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND
BANK LIMITED
in which are merged
BANK OF THE UNION BANK
AUSTRALASIA • OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Established 1835 Established 1837
Over 720 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji, and in London.
Agents In all parts of the world
ANZ. 24. 3550
13'6
45'
'o/r
There’s a
GEM
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
S. HOFFNUNG & CO. LTD.
N.S.W.: 153-157 Clarence Sf„ Sydney
to suit every pocket
Whether you prefer the streamlined
chrome set, complete with stropper,
or a less pretentious set, you are
assured of the same keen shave. The
super-keen Gem blades of surgical
steel and the automatic shaving angle
of the razor give you a skin-level
shave that avoids 5 o’clock shadow.
• Gem de luxe Chrome Strop Outfit with
automatic stropper, as illustrated above,
complete with 8 Gem Double Life
Blades, in ivory plastic gift case, 45/-.
• Gem chromium plated streamline model
in handsome case of ivory plastic with
5 Gem Double Life Blades, 25/-.
• Gem nickel-plated Razor with two Gem
Double Life Blades in serviceable plastic
case, 2/-.
• Gem Automatic Stropper, as illustrated,
13/6 each.
• Packet of 5 Gem Double Life Blades of
sturdy, surgical steel last longer, shave
keener, 2/-.
Obtainable at all Stores , Jewellers, Tobacco-
nists and Chemists.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
WALKING the other day
through a glade on the
fringe of Greater London, I
saw a housewife transplanting
polyantha in her front garden.
The sun was bright, if low ; and
the blue sky, save for the flocky
ribbons of jet-trails, was clear
and incandescent. Just such a
lovely morning, crisp and tangy,
as might inspire a poetic mind
to scanned reflections upon early
spring.
But this was not an April
morning. It was in late
November, proverbial month of
fogs and inspissated darkness.
That housewife, quietly cultivat-
ing her blooms in the open air,
obviously had confidence that
they would flourish, despite the
rigors of oncoming winter. Why
then should we, ten million of
us, be so terrified of a “London
particular”? (The street musician
outside, for instance, has just
shouted back: “Yes, it’s cold
—but not foggy, thank God!
Fog kills.”)
This fear is not an isolated
one by any means. Since the
freak phenomenon of a year ago,
when a layer of cold air con-
tained a layer of warm air over
the metropolis (or was it the
other way round?) and 1 ’ soot,
smuts and poisonous gases dis-
charged by industrial chimneys
fell among us, the popular Press
has seized upon a new word and
persisted in keeping it before
our eyes.
It is an ugly, menacing word
with none of the picturesqueness
of the familiar “London par-
ticular” or, “peasouper.”
“Smog,” in fact, has become an
arresting headline and a sure
gag for radio comedians. It is a
new household word, and per-
sists everywhere—except in the
atmosphere.
“Smog” will doubtless reappear
in its ugly, menacing form.
Healthy cattle will die of •
asphyxiation. Delicate plants
in Kew Gardens will wither and
perish. Spluttering Londoners
will uncomfortably grope their
way to work. And the toll
upon the aged, bronchitic and
infirm will be heavy.
We shall just have to put up
with it, as Londoners have' done
ever since coal fires began to
bum, and breathe through
handkerchief, scarf or gauze
mask—although Whitehall has
peremptorily declared the latter
to be an inadequate protection
that might even cause some of
us to choke to death.
Whitehall might, we feel, come
to grips with the root of the
evil —smoke-abatement—and not
talk so knowingly about it.
Until that happens the best thing
we can do is neither to be appre-
hensive nor overconscious of
“smog”—and remember the
polyantha.
Electioneering Changes
In ■ these days of narrow
majorities (the Conservative-
party’s is only 19) Parliamentary
by-elections are important. They
can indicate a falling, or an
improvement, in the popularity
of the Government.
Our present Government,
contrary to expectations, grew
in favor during its first eighteen
months and then declined
slightly. This was probably due
to the illness, and long absence,
of both Sir Winston Churchill
and Mr. Eden. It was never con-
sidered to be more than a
temporary falling-off.
The Labor party is naturally
pleased to have retained the
Jiolborn and St. Pancras South
constituency with an increased
majority and on a lower poll.
But the party-managers are
scarcely beside themselves with
excitement. Nor is the Conser-
vative Central Office unduly de-
pressed. There are other, more
vital, by-elections pending.
St. Pancras has changed re-
markably since Cecil Rhodes’s
boyhood on the family dairy-
. farm and even since the shabby-
gentility of the days when
Bernard Shaw was one of its
councillors. It is, thanks to
migration outwards, a rather
faded area with a transitory
population, including many
colored students and carpet-
baggers. In no way can the
result be linked with the swing
of the pendulum one way or the
other.
Both parties have noticed that
modern voters have lost interest.
Perhaps they have had an excess
of politics. The loudspeaker-
vans irritate them. They don’t
go to meetings, unless the speaker
is a'big “draw.” And they don’t
want to be disturbed.
The evening, once a good time
for canvassing, now invites a
poor reception because of tele-
vision. And all voters are more
influenced by. what comes to them
over the air than through the
letter-box.
Party organisers now find that
their most useful function is to
count the heads by checking up
on the electoral list, get a “-Yes”
or a “No” where possible and
convey the “Yesses” to the
polling-station.
Three’s Company
The Oliviers are back, doing
big business in Terence Ratti-
gan’s self-styled occasional fairy-
tale, “The Sleeping Prince”
(Phoenix Theatre).
This effervescent confection is
at once slight, rich, inconse-
quential, entrancing, witty, per-
vasive and quite,. quite indefin-
able. It is vintage Rattigan
(Coronation, 1953) and proves
the truism that the comedy of
manners is the hardest of all to
write well. There is an accumu-
lated wealth of craftsmanship in
this souffle surprise that has no
parallel in any current play,
serious or otherwise. Mr. Ratti-
gan takes a theme (morganatic
seduction) and rings a number of
variations upon it, chuckling, as
it were, to himself the whi|e. He
guys the romantic splendor of
1911 (the year before he was
born), the crowned heads of
Europe and. their stuffy courts, as
revealed to a Yankee musical-
comedy actress who is precipi-
tated, not unwillingly, into the
court of the Regent of Carpathia.
If his tale has any thread it is
whether Mary Morgan (alias
Elaine Dagenham of “The Coco-
nut Girl”) will retain her slightly
suspect virtue through three acts
in the ornate Royal Suite of the
Carpathian Legation. But, of
course, Miss Dagenham, who is
really Vivien Leigh, emerges un-
scathed from an Tm-more-than-
a-match-for-you tete-a-tete with
the seduction-weary Regent. She
goes on to win his true love, to
become lady-in-waiting of the
Grand Duchess (accompanying
her to Westminster Abbey and,
later, reading aloud the trial of
Crippen), to act as big sister to
the boy Prince, to understanding
German (“I come from Mil-
waukee”), and, finally, to virtu-
ous refusal of the Regent’s offer
of a castle in Carpathia and
return to theatrical digs, in
Brixton.
To the exploits of the
adventure-cautious Elaine, Miss
Leigh brings an engaging Mid-
Western accent, a fey relish and
a contagious charm. As the
Regent, Laurence. Olivier wears
Ruritanian uniforms, swears in
German, and speaks with a
Central European accent so
credible as often to be beyond
understanding. It is a part that
suggests uxorious gallantry rather
than artistic creation. Martita
Hunt is uproariously funny as
the ingenuous,- full-flavored
Grand Duchess. Jeremy Spenser
shows his technical precocity by
• playing the Prince with a
maturity of style far in excess of
his sixteen years. And Richard
Wattis is sublimely .old-world as
the Foreign Office man of un-
ruffled urbanity.
A play to be seen, not read.
And, reckoning Olivier as pro-
ducer, a glittering fusion of three
talents.
Nun So Fair
A serious play that starts well
but inexorably gets out of control
is Bridget Boland’s “The Re-
turn” . (Duchess Theatre). A
still-devout nun, after 36 years
of strict enclosure, decides that
her vocation is not within the
order, but outside.
The first act is powerful, even
frightening, with the nun torn
between her convictions, the
ministrations of a kindly chap-
lain and the less-than-kind atti-
tude of a sour, perfunctory
Mother Superior.
. Once outside, the recfuse meets
the harsh world with smiling
courage and utter fairness. But
what would seem to be a tre-
mendous dramatic situation too
readily dissipates itself into super-
ficiality, triteness and; ultimately,
anticlimax! Yet the play leaves
trenchant impressions, especially
of Flora Robson’s restrained
emotion as Sister Agatha.


f ■
yi Group of Experts to Manage
IS
'n
€4
YOUR ESTATE
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives* security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —-“ Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
F. H. Way (Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
(Vice-Chairman).
A. E. Bond. J. R. FavielU
£. B. Fleming. G. B. Kaier,
Manager: N. L. Shaw.
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland ,
Secretary: P. H. Andrews.
Pastoral Inspector: Hugh A. Steward
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell St., Sydney
PT.75.15
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Felt and Textiles of Australia, Ltd.
T ATEST accounts of this big and
closely-integrated group of wool-
and textile-manufacturing units—parent
co. and 30-odd subsidiaries —exhibit a
remarkable recovery from the severe
reverses of the previous year, thus setting
at rest fears that the rapid post-war
growth of the organisation, by absorp-
tions and otherwise, might have seriously
impaired its financial health and profit-
earning capacity.
For a decade after the public became
interested in 1936, the ords. received a
steady 10 p.c. and then 121 p.c. for the
five years to tHb close of accounts in
1951. In 1952 a loss of £473,577 showed
up and no ord. div. was paid. Factors
chiefly responsible were the collapse of
raw-wool prices and slump in the wool-
textile industry, aggravated by a spate
of imports, rising costs and the need to
work down heavy stocks and- a large pile
of book-debts on a falling market.
Last term a profit of £506,054 was
earned, after setting aside £366,107 (up
£63,190) for depreciation and £217,979
(nil previous year) for taxation:
Felt and Textiles and Subsidiaries.*
, Divs.
Net Pref. Re-
June, Profit.* 6& 4 p.c. Ordinary. serves.f
£ £ £ £
1949. .564,783 80,956 12$ p.c. = 237,472 1,749,276
Added capital reserves, £1,061,032.. 2,810,308
Added sundry reserves, net, £20,634 2,880,942
Reduction intangibles, £6526 .. 2,837.468
1950. .597,080 64,800 12£p.c.= 356.210 3,013.538
Share-premiums, £474,946 ... ..3,488,484
Sale assets, £1745 •.. ..3,490,229
Unexplained additions, £146,885 .. 3,637,114
From stock reserves, £160,000 .. 5,797,114
Loss on shares sold, £55,960 ..3,741,154
1951. .672,851 64,800 12i p.c. = 379,957 3,969,248
From tax reserves, £50,000 . . . . 4,019,248
Unexplained reduction, £3048 .. 4,016,200
Written off intangibles, £350 .. .. 4,016.550
Loss.
1952. .473,577 64,800 Nil 3,478,173-
Added intangibles, £3200 .. . .3,474,973
Unexplained additions, £8064 . . 3,483,037
1953. .506,054 64,800 8 p.c. = 303,965 3,620,326
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interest.
t After deducting goodwill, etc., now £160,800.
The £506,054 was sufficient to pay the
pref. divs. and show 11.6 p.c. on the
£3,79.9,565 of ord, capital compared with
a loss, and profits of 20, 18.6, 26.3, 20
and 22.6 p.c. back to 1947. The ords.
came into the picture again with 8 p.c.,
and there is nothing in sight at the
moment to suggest that they won’t remain
there.
Behind the recovery lies a combination
of fortuitous circumstances and steps
taken by the management to correct the
weaknesses in the structure that the change
in conditions had disclosed. As the year
advanced raw-wool prices strengthened,
and, with the help of import restrictions,
etc., trade activity generally gathered
momentum. The threat to two of the
largest and most vulnerable of the co.’s
assets was thus removed, and turnover
improved. At the same time reorganisa-
tion of the manufacturing and distribut-
ing sides of the business contributed “in
no small measure” to the improved posi-
tion.
The textile division, which was the one
hardest hit in 1952, is now trading at a
profit, but remains the weakest link in
the chain. Its activities range from
combing wool-tops to making woollen
and worsted cloths and clothing. All
plants in the raw-wool section, which does
a large scouring and carbonising business
on a commission basis, are working at
or near capacity. In the felt and carpets
branch the order-book is ahead of out-
put. And the footwear section, which
was the one least affected in 1952, is
giving a good account of itself. The N.Z.
subsidiary, in which 52 p.c. of the
£475,000 of ord. capital is held, continues
to pay a steady 8 p.c. The million-odd-
pound S. African associate, in which a
42 p.c. interest is held, earned a “satis-
factory” profit last term, compared with
a loss of £35,384 for the previous year.
The overall financial position has
further improved:
D ~ , 1951. .1952. 1953.
Faid capital . . £5,299,565 £5,299,565 £5,299,565
Outside interests. . 853,231 857,582 877,871
Debenture reserve 9,199. 13,152 18,145
Debentures . . 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Mortgages . . 2,254,271 2,517,896 2,459,601
Overdraft . . . . 5,068,547 3,755,625 1,867,406
Sundry creditors,
_ etc - . v • • 3,080,708 1,329,278 1,084,121
lax provision . . 678,105 404,652 247,871
linal div 233,052 31,200 335,165
Freeholds .. .. 3,429,524 3,702,623 3,733,225
£/ ant ■ • • • 2,712,981 3,323,378 3,291,900
Shares other cos.. . 447,814 442,775 446,301
“toe* • • ■ • 11,679,701 8,049,031 5,873,619
Debtors . , . . 4,029,570 3,013,767 3,287,461
Cash, etc . . . . 1,178 5,842 3,122
Mortgage Sinking fund
investment .. 119.199 143,152 168,145
Inter-co. balance .. 25,959 6,555 v 6,298
A reduction of £2,175,412 in stocks left
the item at half the 1951 figure. Cuts
of £1,888,219 and £245,157 were made
in the overdraft and amount coming to
sundry creditors respectively, while book-
debts increased by £273,694. The im-
provement in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£2,344,481) was £159,785. Ex-
cluding tax-provision, there was 14s. Id.
of outside money iq the business for every
£1 belonging to shareholders when the
books closed, as against 245. two years
previously. They are all healthy move-
ments.
And for the first quarter of the current
term estimated profits before allowing for
taxation were at the rate of over
£1,000,000 per annum. Existing condi-
tions, however, are exceptionally favor-
able. The ords. at 295. (235. 9d. a year
ago) return 5.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
The 6 p.c. second and 4 p.c. third prefs.
at 20s. 6d. and 13s. 3d. yield 5.8 p.c.
and 6 p.c. respectively. Net tangible
cover is £44 7s lid. seconds, £6 17s. 9d.
thirds and 39s ords. The well-protected
6 p.c. first prefs. seldom appear on
’Change.
Tooth and Co. (Sydney)
QOUND brewery scrip has always
ranked* high as an equity investment,
especially in big and old-established con-
cerns like Tooths, which enjoys a lion’s
share of the market in the biggest State
in the Commonwealth. It owns more
than one-third of the hotels in N. S. Wales,
including the thirsty northern coalfields,
whore Castlemaine and Wood Bros. (New-
castle) was taken over for £250,000 in
scrip in 1920, and the Riverina, where
Mahon (Wagga) and Lincoln (Narran-
dera) were absorbed for an unstated
amount in cash in 1924. Five years later
the co. greatly strengthened its grip upon
the trade by purchase of Resch’s business
(then one of the two other big Sydney
breweries) for £1,250,000 in scrip, or
thereabouts. It has since kept on buying
up hotel properties (which is the form
competition takes, there bfeing no price-
cutting in the trade) and expanding its
output and earnings.
Shareholders have never failed to
receive a div., averages for the first five
decades of this century being 8.5, 9.6,
10.5, 10.4 and 13 p.c., and for the four
years to the close of last accounts 15.1 p.c.
Paid capital, steady at £900,000 till 1910,
now stands at £6,182,659. Of the differ-
ence £2,150,097 is bonus scrip (last gift
was £485,622 in 1929), the balance being
for cash and/or assets acquired. Of the
£4,137,935 of visible reserves at Sept.
30 last £2,219,902 was taken from hiding
and put in the window in 1947. The
market has since lived in anticipation of
some form of largesse.
In addition to the accumulation of
surplus earnings, there are large inner
reserves (unearned increment) in the
brewery and hotel freeholds, book-value
of which has been written-up from time-
to-time and the resultant reserves capi-
talised, thus bringing the rate of both
profit and dividends into truer relation-
ship with the real value of assets em-
ployed.
Last term the growth in profits was
£60,964, of which £45,973 came from
savings in exes., presumably on account
of taxation (undisclosed);
Net To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves,
& £ £ £
1947.. 884,516 13* p.c. = 834,659 f „ q „ 7
Employees’ fund, £10,000.. f 39,857 1,808,344
Conting’cies res. disclosed, £1,861,192 3,669,530
Unexplained addition, £358,770 .. 4,028,306
1948. .916,292 14* p.c. = 896,485 ) Qsn » , „„„ 11!?
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO. C y,BU ‘
1949. .943,160 15 p.c. = 927,399 ) - 7fil , n ,„ a 7.
Employees’ fund, £10,000.. f 5,761 4,043,874
1960.. 958.808 15 p.c. = 927,399 \«, moin/icw
Employees’ fund, £lO,OOO f 21,409 4,065,283
1951.. 949.246 15 p.c. = 927,399 ? 11R17107n80
To employees’ fund, £lO,OOO ) 11.847 4,077,130
1952. .952,775 15 p.c. = 927,399 7 i nO9 *ns
To employees’ fund, £lO,OOO ) 15,378 4.092.508
1953 1,013,739 15* p.c. = 958,312 £ 427 4 737 935
To employees’ fund, £lO,OOO J 4,13f,ad0
The £1,013,739 of profit claimed was
16.4 p.c. on capital as against 15.4, 15.3,
15.5, 15.2 and 14.8 p.c, back to 1948.
The div. was lifted from 15 p.c. to 15£ p.c,,
the final being at the rate of 16 p.c. p.a.,
which suggests that net earnings are con-
servatively stated and that the board is
satisfied with the outlook.
New boilers (badly needed) are being
installed, and alterations and overdue
additions to the Kent and Waverley
breweries are well on the road to com-
pletion—this should help overcome the
shortage of bottled beer as well as in-
crease the output'of draught stuff. Two
new hotels are also nearing completion,
others are in course of erection, and the
modernisation of old properties is being
pushed ahead. Together with the small
increase in controlled selling-prices in
Nov., 1952, to counter the rising cost of
sugar and other brewing ingredients, it all
augurs well for future earnings. And so
does the growth in population, which has,
increased by about If million, or 26 p.c.
since 1939.
Appearances are that shareholders
aren’t likely to be called upon for more
at the moment, as the big holding of
cash, etc., suggests —a large part of it is
a buttress against ever-current excise pay-
ments :
/ 1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital .. £6,182,657 £6,182,657 £6,182,657
Creditors . . . . 4,363,258 4,491,057 4,397,588
Employees’ fund .. 93,259 102,517 113,851
Final div. .. 463,699 463,699 494,613
Freeholds and plant 7,567,651 7,666,652 7,985,644
Stocks . . . . 1,070,437 1,246,720 1,272,279
Debtors . . . . 1,337,616 1,678,550 1,732,618
Consols, cash, etc. 5,204,300 4,740,517 4,336,103
Last term’s net addition to fixed assets
was £318,992, to stocks £25,559 and to
book-debts £54,068/ To meet the outlay
and clip £93,469 off the creditors item
the co. drew upon cash, etc., for £404,414.
The f.-p. £1 shares, covered by net
tangibles with a book-value of 335. 4d.
each, are priced at 725. 6d. (635. 9d. a
year ago) to return 4.4 p.c. on a 16 p.c.
div. basis. The investor who looks for a
shade over 5 p.c. on his money counts
on the distribution going to 18 p.c., or on
a one-for-four gift scrip-issue and main-
tenance of the div. at 15 p.c., which
would then call for £ 145,000-odd more
profit than was disclosed last term.
United Insurance Co.
/CONTINUED and profitable expansion
is the feature which catches the eye
in the accounts of this old- and solidly-
established, Sydney-controlled fire, marine
and accident office. The bulk of its under-
writing contracts are written in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, but the spread
of its net is being widened. A sub-
stantial income has been developed in
the London marine and fire-reinsurance
markets, which were re-entered in 1948
and 1952 respectively, with satisfactory
results, and the Hong Kong agency busi-
ness, set up in 1951, is* reported to be
developing nicely.
Since 1944 the number of branch and
other offices has grown from 18 to 77,
and net premium income has expanded
by 412 p.c. The overall loss experience
has been favorable, a tight hold has been
kept upon controllable outgoings, surplus
earnings have responded, and the div,
was lifted from 10 p.c. to 12| p.c. in
1948, and has remained steady since, with
wide margins. Shareholders also wel-
comed a call—first thing of its kind for
over 30 years—for £50,000 of fresh capita
at par in 1951, which lifted paid capita]
to £500,000 in £lO shares paid to £5 each
And during the eight years to Sept. 30
1953, £845,730—£192,251 of it from inne
reserves —was added to visible accumu
lations, raising the figure to £1,415,476
of which £794,817 was earmarked fo
unexpired risks, at the close of las
accounts.
The buoyancy of last term’s ne
premium income (up £125,722) was less
marked, due partly to a levelling-off oJ:
insurable values and partly to alterations
in re-insurance arrangements:
Net Pre- Ex- Loss* Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1948. . 618,284 247,832 313,564 40.0 p.c. 50.7 p.c
1949. 903,160 329,749 496,990 36.5 „ 55.0 ~
1950.1,090,677 420,570 515,850 38.2 „ 46.9 ~
1951. 1,333,003 532,209 650,910 39.9 „ 48.8 ~
1952. 1,687,609 716,716 778,876 42.4 ~ 46.1 „
1958. 1,813,331 759,014 902,235 41.8 „ 49.7 „
There was a slip of £39,935 in the gross
underwriting surplus (£152,082), due to
the inevitable heavy initial cost of ex-
pansion. The expense rate increased by
£3 12s. p.c., but the overall loss rate was
12s. p.c. lighter, despite the generally
unsatisfactory experience in third-party
and motor-vehicle risks. Most profitable
sections are fire, marine and workers’
compensation in that order.
After sending £50,289 (down £91,551)
to the reserve for unexpired risks, the
net underwriting surplus was £101,793
(up £51,616), to which interest, rents, etc.,
contributed a further £44,482 (up £870),
making the net amount available for dis-
tribution £146,275 (up £52,486):
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. t Dividends N serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
To unexpired risks, £80,577 .. 949,413
1950. .122,747 12* p.c. = 56,250 \ oin
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. j 56 ’ 497 1,005,910
To unexpired risks, £93,327 .. 1,099,237
1951. .101,546 12i p.c. = 62,500 1 , 1?s „„„
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ) 9,04 b 1.^»,283
To unexpired risks, £141,840 .. 1,270,123
1952. . 93,789 p.c. = 62,500 t, o-j 900 1 901 ato
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. }
To unexpired risks, £50,289 .. 1,341,701
1953.. 146,275 12* p.c. = 62,5001 7077- 1
To staff fund, £10,000.. j 7d ' 7 ' 5 1,4 5, b
* Includes reserve unexpired risks, £794,817 at
30/9/’53.
The £146,275 was equal to 29.2 p.c. on
capital (20.3 p.c. underwriting and 8.9 p.c.
interest, rents, etc.) compared with 18.7,
20.3 and 27.2 p.c. for the three preceding
years. So maintenance of the 12? p.c.
div. called for less than half the year’s
available profit.
Purchases of branch buildings and staff-
houses sent premises up by £100,763 net,
the cash holding, etc., being drawn upon
for £81,632 to help meet the outlay:
1950. 1951. 1952. 1953.
Paid capital.. £450,000 £500,000 £500.000 £500,000
Creditors, ■ etc. 412,592 510,391 643,162 625,574
Final div. . . 28,125 31,250 31,250 31,250
Premises .. 232,287 323,285 450,208 550,971
Shares subsid’y 39,758 39,758
Debentures .. 40,000 40,000 40,000 75,000
Mortgages . . 352,143 496,634 511,012 563,656
Govt, securities 589,915 489,915 489,915 489,915
Debtors, cash,
etc. .. 692,284 830,089 944,932 863,300
Financially both policyholders and share-
holders are well-protected. As the out-
lay on premises eases and other invest-
ments are strengthened, a better return
from interest, rents, etc., can be expected,
thus enhancing shareholders’ prospects.
The heavy statutory charge for main-
tenance of fire brigades is causing all in-
surance cos. concern at the moment. The
cos. now have to meet 75 p.c. of the
total cost of the brigades, the
other 25 p.c. being met in equal pro-
portions by the State Government and
local-Government bodies. Before the
war the cost was borne in equal propor-
tions by the three parties concerned. ♦
Prepared to wait for its benefits, the
market prices £5-paid shares at £l6 2s. 6d.
(£l5 10s. a year ago) to return unly
3.8 p.c. on a p.c. distribution. Net
tangible cover is £l9 3s. Id. per share.


Public Notices
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Insurance Com-
panies.
Pursuant to' the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL insurance companies, as defined
by the above Act, are hereby notuied
that they are required to send to the
Board of Fire Commissioners of New
South Wales, returns showing the total
amount of the premiums received by or
due to buch companies in respect of
risks against fire during the year ending
31st December, 1958, within the Sydney
Fire District and every other Fire Dis-
trict in the State of New South Wales
to which the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-
1949, applies; less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of re-
insurance to any other insurance com-
panies contributing under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1954, subject to a penalty not exceeding
Five pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the re-
quired returns may be obtained from the
undersigned. .
By order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Persons, etc.,
insuring with any Insurance
Company not registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associ-
ations being owners, trustees, or agents
for any goods" or property within the
Sydney Fire District, and every other Fire
District in the State of New South Wales
to which the >Fire Brigades Act, ,1909-
1949, has been applied, in respect of
which premiums are paid to an insurance
company not registered in the ■ State ; are
hereby notified that they are required
to send to the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales, returns show-
ing the amount of such premiums paid by
them in respect of the said property to
such insurance companies during the year
1953.
The time appointed for the receipt ot
the returns is on or before the 31st
January, 1954, subject to a penalty not
exceeding £1 per day for every day of
default.
Note: Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly
♦chargeable in respect of the fire risk
during the time such property was in
any Fire District under the said Act.
By order of the Board, of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Circular Charts for all type*
of Recording Instruments
tor anjr class of Mithlawy
or Equlpmrot
METER CHARTS a Spociah?
OSULUVAN%U
JACK
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street. Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
Missing Friends
WOULD MRS. VIOLET JESSIE ROBIN-
SON (nee HULL), or her daughter, MISS
ELMA ROBINSON, formerly of Welling-
ton and Auckland, New Zealand, or any
person knowing of their whereabouts,
please communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Wellington, New
Zealand.
Legal Notice
I JOHANNES BARTHOLOMEUS WIL-
LEM SIMON VAN OVEN, of Dutch
nationality, born at Amersfoort, Holland,
resident seven years in Australia, now re-
siding at 37 Banksia Street, Dee Why,
N S.W., intend to apply for naturalisa-
tion under the Nationality and Citizen-
ship Act, 1948.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS,
J. W. DUNLOP. A. H.. DIOKINS, Q. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
PLANNING
A have placed the
Metropolitan Life in
the forefront of Austra-
lian financial organisations.
Plan your financial pro-
tection through a
Metropolitan
policy.
PROGRESS
AND
EVERY YEAR
A BONUS YEAR
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD:
(Inc. in Q'ld 1895)
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter and Bligh
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone BW 8061.
TO-DAY’S PROTECTION —TO-MORROW'S SECURITY
Company Meeting
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
AND HIGH COSTS
Bank President’s Views
The current economic situation was happier than could
have been expected a year ago, said Sir Colin Sinclair, the
President of the Bank of New South Wales, in reviewing
business conditions at the annual meeting of the Bank on
November 27. Export income, the foundation of our
national prosperity had been most satisfactory, movements
in both prices and wages had steadied, and the volume of
unemployment was very low.
Economic conditions in Australia, indeed, were com-
paratively stable, but he added that we could not afford
to deceive ourselves by the apparent state of balance.
. _ _ . « ... < •rr.
THE CHALLENGE OF
DEVELOPMENT
He went on: “The fast rate of growth
in population and the rapid pace or
technological change bring in their train
the need for a huge expansion of re-
sources, and require a large volume ot
new investment. Such a challenge will
call not only for courage, but also tor
mobility—mobility of minds as well as
of resources and a reversal of those
attitudes which keep enterprise confined
within a framework of hidebound pro-
cedures or bureaucratic controls.”
He considered that past investment in
industry had expanded productive
capacity without as yet realizing its full
fruits. The same could be said of most
of the primary industries, for though
the trend of output was upward and
productivity had improved, one could
not help feeling that there was room
for substantial improvement even on the
strength of existing resources.
THE PINCH OF HIGH COSTS
The reasons why potentialities had
not become actual and why business was
cautious were not hard to seek. Com-
petitive conditions had been restored
throughout the world when the Austra-
lain economy was feeling the pinch of
its high costs. .
“The new conditions require adjust-
ments in the Australian economy which
we have been only too prone to put off.
Markets will be retained only through
greater efficiency, higher quality, and
competitive prices.”
In secondary industry, some import-
ant products had more than held their
own in uneasy marketing conditions, but
others would have been in serious diffi-
culty on the basis of existing tariffs but
for the protection afforded by the import
licensing system. Even higher tariffs,
added Sir Colin, could not by-pass the
need to tackle the existing cost structure.
1 There was much slack in the efficiency
of industry to be taken up by both
labour and management, but govern-
ments, too, would have a part to play.
The Commonwealth budget had made
an important start in lowering the bur-
den of taxation on private activity, but
the demands of governments, and their
interference at all points of the economy
were seriously impeding the attempts
of industry and business to get to grips
with their problems, i
BANKING
On the subject of banking, Sir Colin
Sinclair said that the situation of low
liquidity had been transformed by early
1953. Though advances had declined
through the run-off in stocks, the
amount of new lending was substantial,
but it did not show in the published
figures. . , , ,
The new banking legislation naa
introduced some improvements, but on
the whole it had proved disappointing.
Although the burden of special accounts
was less onerous, the structure of bank-
ing control established in 1945 had not
been greatly altered.
Sir Colin concluded: “In a country
which bases its hopes for the future
on the expansion of economic re-
sources, the fact that these controls
could be imposed in their full rigour
at any moment presents the danger
that enterprise could be hobbled and
development monopolized by govern-
ment administration or by the action
of doctrinaire socialists.”
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
INCOBPOBATBy^IN^NBW^SOIDT^^WALIBB_WITB^I4mITB^ i^LIABILITY^i^^^|i^e
A 53428
Marcus Clark & Co. (Syd.)
SIR, MARCUS CLARK, who
joined the board in 1908 on
the death of his father (founder
of the business) and was chair-
man and managing-director
since 1913, died on July 13 last.
The seat at the head of the
board-table has’been taken by
R. C. Clark, who has been a
director since 1945, and was
secretary of the co. for many
years before that.
Paid -up share - capital is
£1,002,786 (£597,848 of it pref.
money costing on the average
6£ p.c.), reserves total £382,965
(subject to £72,378 of goodwill),
and at Aug. 2 last the co. was
using £1,067,513 of outside
money as well. It does a large
trade—much of it on a t.-p. basis
—in drapery, clothing, footwear,
furniture and furnishings, radios,
sporting-goods, etc., and three
branches (Newcastle, Wollon-
gong and Dubbo) help to swell
turnover. The co. also owns the
£125,000 of ord. capital in Bon
Marche, drapers (Sydney), and
most of the £170,000 of ord.
capital in Miller Anderson,
drapers (Adelaide). The Sydney
co. paid p.c. and the Adelaide
co. 8 p.c. last term, same as for
previous year.
After a run of 10 p.c. divs. in
the 1920’s the ords. went hungry
for nine out of the 10 years to
1940, and half their capital (10s.
a share, £219,970) was written
off in 1937, due to failure of a
Melbourne subsidiary. For the
13 years to the close of last
accounts the div. climbed from
3 p.c. to 8 p.c., the average
being approximately 5.4 p.c. A
couple of years ago it was in-
tended to issue 401,114 new 10s.
shares, but C.I.C. turned down
the board’s request, and the co.
lost its appeal to the High Court
in connection with the matter.
Further expansion of the busi-
ness has, therefore, been re-
stricted through lack of finance,
which was partly offset by funds
from sales of property, which
turned in capital profits totalling
£137,919 over the three years to
1952. Whether the bbard will
ask shareholders and/or out-
siders for more after capital-
issues control ceases at the end
of 1953 remains to be seen.
Last term turnover
strengthened as the year ad-
vanced, and the ground lost in
1952 was regained, and more
besides:
( —Dividends- — N
Prefs. Ords. Written Re-
Aug., Profit. 6 &6J p.c. 6 p.c. Off. serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
’49.. 80,718 37,360 24,296 6,960 153,943
Capital profit, £56,760 ..210,703
Shareholdings written up,
£25,228 253,931
’50.. 88,938 37,360 24,296 8,897 254,316
Capital profit, £35,457 . , 289,773
7 p'.c.
’51..101,530 37,360 28,346 10,479 315,118
-Capital profit, £45,702 . . 360,820
’52.. 81,202 37,360 28,346 15,434 360,882
8 p.c.
’53..107,294 37,360 32,395 15,456 382,965
t Subject to goodwill, £72,378.
After allowing for depreciation
—shown as written-off in the
table —and whatever was con-
sidered necessary for taxation
at reduced rates, the net amount
available for distribution was
£26,070 stronger at a record
£91,838. That covered the pref.
divs, and 13.4 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal as against 7, 13.2, 10.5, 9,
11.4 and 10 p.c. back to 1947.
A point was added to the div.,
making it 8 p.c. Prospects of
further improvement in net earn-
ings for the current term are
encouraging.
The year’s net addition of
£59,444 to book-debts was
accompanied by a growth of
£70.485 in the amount coming to
trade creditors, etc.:
1951. 1952. 1953.
£ £ £
Paid capital 1,002,786 1,002,786 1,002,786
Secured .
credits .. 779,552 857,013 788,158
Other
creditors* 490,719 208,870 279,355.
Final divs. 47,026 47,026 51,075
Freeholds, etc. 680,546 701,910 707,521
Plant, etc. 113,588 119,644 125,939
Stocks . . 616,822 482,872 449,972
Book debts 766,000 697,077 756,521
Shares, etc. 362,298 363,322- 346,234
Cash, etc. 23,567 39,374 45,774
Goodwill .. 72,378 72,378 ,72,378
* Includes provision lor taxation.
There was a cut of £68,855 in
the debt to the bank and other
secured creditors, and reduc-
tions of £32,900 in stocks (in at
the lower of cost or market-
value) and £17,088 in share-
holdings, etc. —the etcetera is
amounts owing, by subsidiaries
on current account. , When the
books closed there was 15s. sd.
of outside money in the business
for every £1 of shareholders’
funds as against 19s. 3d. two
years previously. >
Doubtful of what the less im-
mediate future might hold for
the business, the market prices
the co.’s f.-p. 10s. ords. at
10s. 3d. (Bs. 3d. a year ago) to
return 7.8 p.c. on an 8 p.c. dis-
tribution. The 6 p.c. prefs. at
20s. 3d. and the 6i percents, at
20s, 6d. (last reported sales) yield
5.9 p.c. and 5.3 p.c. respectively.
Net tangible cover is £4 7s. 6d.
6 percents., £3 Bs. 6\ percents,
and 17s. Bd. ords. '
Sungei Bidor Tin, Ltd.
Operating some 15 miles from
Kampar (F.M.S.), this Aus-
tralian-controlled co.’s all-elec-
tric 300,000 - c.y. - per - month
dredge has given a splendid
account of itself since it got back
into commercial production in
March, 1947. For the half-
dozen years to June 30 last it
had won profits totalling
£1,000,400, thanks to the very
high price of tin, and distributed
an aggregate of £894‘,000 in divi-
dends 'on a paid capital of
£150,000, which is in f.-p. 10s.
shares.
Over the last couple of years
more has been distributed than
was earned, for which share-
holders can thank the flush state
of the co.’s finances. Here are
operating and financial results:
Treated, Div.,
e.y. t.o.* Goldf Profits 60 p-.c.
Jne., ’OOO. Tons. Oz. £ £
’48..3501 576.1 444.8 75,823 72,000
20 p.c.
’49..2957 486.3 315.1 69,664 24,000
60 p.c.
’50.. 3679 636.3 533.5 123,385 72.000
180 p.c.
’51..3720 847.2 1259.7 389,809 216,000
’52..3103 534.6 599.3 180,820 270,000
200 p.c.
’53,.3387 560.8 648.2 160,898 240,000
* Assay approx. 75 p.c. metallic tin.
t Smelted gold. $ After deducting taxa-
tion and provision for depreciation, etc.
Last term more ground, averag-
ing 0.371 b. t.o. per c.y. (0.391 b.
previous year), was handled, and
recoveries of tin-ore and gold
benefited. In terms of metallic
tin the output was 422.7 tons
(up 15.9 tons), but the price
realised was £23.8 lower at
£905.1 per ton, and all-in costs
(excluding taxation) were £60.7
heavier at £376.7 per ton.
So, after allowing £70,000
(down £6000) for taxation and
£5OOO (same as previous term) for
replacements, etc., the net result
was £19,922 lower at £160,898.
That was equal to 134.1 p.c. on
capital as against 150.8, 324.8,
102.8 and 58 p.c. for the four
preceding years. The div. was
lowered from 225 p.c. to 200 p.c.,
which called for £79,102 more
profit than claimed. Since the
close of accounts a further 2s. 6d.
per share (£30,000), equal to 25
p.c., has been sent out.
There is about seven years’
measured-up work ahead of the
dredge. On the basis of last
term’s figures, and with metallic
tin at £620 per ton (London
price last week was around £624.
per ton), appearances are that
the co. can win profits approxi-
mating 90 p.c. on capital. But
distributions in excess of net
earnings would seem to be at or
near their end.
When the books crosed cur-
rent asesets totalled £324,929, of
which £268,824 was cash and
ore on hand, etc. Current liabili-
ties amounted to £150,854, of
which £141,532 was provision
for Malayan tax.
The London average spot-
price for the metal, which fell
from £965.7 for Feb., 1953, to
£740.8 for June, and to £598.6
for Sept., recovered to £670 by
mid-Nov., and then eased to
£624 last week, as already
stated. The fluctuations were
due to variations in demand,
especially from American
sources, rather than in supply.
Hopes are that before long an
international scheme will be
agreed upon to regulate supply
and so steady and stabilise the
price of the metal.
The market prices the co.’s
f.-p. 10s. shares at 455; or there-
abouts.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The Christmas-party season is upon us
once more, and already several organisa-
tions have held happy gatherings to con-
clude their year’s work. The women’s
section of the American Club came up
with something original as usual, this time
a dramatised Letter to Mr. President
from Americans in Australia, Alaska,
Mexico and Hawaii, and from a Red
Indian squaw. The text was written by
Mrs. Pearl Campbell, who also played the
Mexican woman. Guest-of-honor was
Mrs. Donald Smith, wife of the American
Consul-General, whose mother, Mrs.
Zella Thompson, was also present. Dur-
ing the party, which was held at the
Pickwick, carols were sung by little boys
from the Salvation Army Home at
Bexley, and cheques were presented to
representatives of the Flying Doctor
Service, the Family Welfare Bureau, and
the Y.W.C.A,
* * *
Beautiful singing was a feature of the
Christmas-party of the music circle of
the English-Speaking Union, held at
Beaumont House, when the president,
Mrs. H. Twigden, welcomed the Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. P, D. Hills, as guest-of-
honor. The artists were Keith Raymond,
Jennifer James (violinist) and Hazel Mc-
Gilvray, and the 120 guests joined in the
carol-singing. At this party it was de-
lightful to see the first Christmas-bush
among the flowers, delicately pink and
just beginning to redden.
'* ☆ *
Mr. and Mrs. Erik Langker were
present at the National Opera Academy’s
end-of-year production at the Metropoli-
tan Theatre last week, when Mr; Langker
announced that the Academy’s scholarship
had been awarded do Lillian Jenkinson
as the year’s best all-round student. The
Langkers themselves came in for warm
and friendly congratulations when it was
announced later by Mrs. C. T. Lorenz
that they were celebrating their 25th
wedding anniversary. The concert, pre-
sented by Madame Yvonne Marotta,
featured excerpts from “La Boheme’’ and
brought to notice several singers of fine
promise.
ft ft *
Handed over this week to the charities
for which they have been working all
the year .were cheques from two of
Sydney’s most active charitable com-
mittees. The Ladv Mayoress’s Relief
Fund committee raised £2146 for the
eight charities nominated at the beginning
of the year, and the Black and White
Ball committee has forwarded a cheque
for £4217 to the president of the Royal
Blind Society of N.S.W.
ft ☆ ☆
The children are gradually taking the
city over, it seems. They flow out of
buses and surge into shops like the waves
at Coogee, just as frothy and just as
lelentless. The retail-stores have put
on some delightful decorations and shows
for them, with Anthony Hordern’s offer-
ing two particularly good entertainments,
one a puppet-play, “Bob’s Christmas
Wish,” the other “Peter Pan” in animated
tableaux; Farmer’s featuring the grace-
ful, snowflake, candle-lit type, with
gnomes and weird music for their window
display; David Jones’s corner-window
showing a complete village with snowy
roofs, a railway through the mountain,
a castle above all and Santa Claus riding
through the air with his reindeer;
Mark Foy’s an enchanting series of
tableaux depicting Cinderella’s fortunes
which end with “two lovely children, a
boy and a girl.” It all livens up the
town, and only the churlish would com-
plain of the exhaustion it causes. (That
makes about 5000 churls to date.)
* ft ft
While most of us at this time of the
year arq rushing round booking turkeys
and saving up to buy a pound of sliced
ham, there seems to be a growing voice
of discontent regarding this type of fare
for Christmas. The men are particularly
scathing about the foolish traditionalism
of women in “toiling over a hot stove”
on Christmas Day, and they point out that
it is ridiculous to serve a blazing-hot
meal on what is generally a blazing-hot
day. “Why not a cool, fresh salad?”
they say (forgetting that they normally
greet a salad with, “Grass again? We’ll
begin to look like rabbits soon!”).
Some people are even thinking of
forming a Society for the Australianisa-
tion of Christmas in Australia. Pines and
firs will no longer be used as Christmas
trees, and Sydney’s own tree, the More-
ton Bay Fig, will take their place. That
would indeed be progress. It is sug-:
gested that lobsters be served instead of
poultry because the Sydney local lob-
ster has no equal and there is indeed
something really festive about the crack-
ing of lobster-claws. The only difficulty
about this suggestion is that the modern
mother, brought up as she has been in
the shadow of the clinic sister, rather
shrinks from feeding lobster to her little
ones.
Oysters, Sydney’s other delicacy, seem
a little too cold and accusing in appear-
ance for a family feast. Grilled steak
with shredded lettuce and a bit of beet-
root on the side (Australia’s only tradi-
tional dish of a luxurious nature) seems
a possible selection, but it is doubtful
whether the idea would catch on for
really large families. As no other sug-
gestions (except the frivolous one of
“meat-pies”) have come forward, it
seems better for this year at least to
stick to the traditional food, leaving
further discussion for 1954.
* if *
Scheduled for Friday afternoon at
Nock and Kirby’s is the Christmas-party
of the Society of Women Writers of
N.S.W. The party starts at 2.30 p.m. and
there is to be a special musical pro-
gramme. Bring-a-gift-and-buy-a-gift is
the order of the day, and members may
bring their friends, provided they let
the hon. secretary, Kitty Archer-Burton,
know. Her Aelephone-number is
F 82054.
This is Mrs. S. J. Gandon, wife of the
general-manager of the Bank of N.S.W.
and for the past four years president of
the bank’s women’s auxiliary of the Royal
Blind Society. This auxiliary has done
splendid work for many years, and as the
result of this year’s effort a cheque for
£lOOO was presented by Mrs. Gandon to
the deputy-president of the society, Mr.
H. W. Thompson, last week. Photo by
Falk.
Noted at the fashion showing by Saba
of California during the week that all
the garments were marked with waist,-
bust- and hip-measurements, not simply
“W.,” “0.5.,” etc., so making it quite
easy for the customer to see whether she
will be able to fit herself into them or
not. The idea comes from America,
where the Saba designs Come from, too.
Their showing was for next winter's
wear, when jersey will be teamed with
orlon for a silky drapeable material,
when smooth shoulders will be almost
universal, royal motifs will decorate belts
and necklines, white wool dresses will
be seen around a good deal, skirts may
be full but will fall narrowly, and sim-
plicity will carry the day.
* ☆ ☆
If a Gallup-poll were taken of sub-
jects most interesting to Sydney people
there is no doubt that the building of a
small home would rank very high in-
deed. The Institute of Architects be-
lieved this, apparently, and have had
their belief confirmed by the crowds
which have visited their Small Homes
exhibition at David Jones’s during the
week and who have flocked round in
the lunch-hours to hear eminent archi-
tects talk on the subject.
Mr. Harry Seidler, who designs houses
in the modern most controversial man-
ner, spoke convincingly last Thursday on
the virtues of the flat roof, which he said
gave greater freedom of internal arrange-
ment, as it would cover any shape of
house; and of the use of concrete and
steel, which he said was competitive
financially with brickwork, especially on
a sloping site.
MELBOURNE
Apparently the tidings ,of tyranny seep-
ing across from a sister-State have begun
to affect the vocabulary of Melburnites.
One woman, standing on the steps of the
hotel she was leaving, and looking for
her car,* suddenly remembered and said
to her escort: “Of course it isn’t here!
I gave the keys to the commissar as I
arrived and he took the car away to park
it.” Then the hunt was on for the
“commissar.”
Marion McPherson, who has taken up
her appointment as private-secretary to
Lady Brooks, wife of the Governor, is
the daughter of Sir Clive McPherson, of
South Yarra, and tlie late Lady McPher-
son. An ardent worker for the Red
Cross and Ministering Children’s League,
she is a graduate in Law, and through-
out the war served as an officer in the
W.A.A.A.F.
Gaily-decorated stalls dotted the lawns
outside the White Ensign Club and a
naval band provided popular tunes when
Mrs. R. G. Menzies, wearing a plum-
and-white figured silk frock with black
accessories, opened the Christmas fete
in aid of club funds. Mrs. Menzies
recognised at the fete Arthur Clark, A. 8.,
who had taken her over H.M.A.S. Syd-
ney at the Coronation Naval Review at
Spithead. Lady Collins chose a cinna-
mon-brown white-spotted tie-silk frock
and a tobacco-brown felt calot misted
with veiling; Mrs. Ken Luke’s lime-
green shantung frock was pin-spotted
with white, and her wide natural-straw
hat was trimmed with black velvet. Mes-
dames H. J. Buchanan, David Harries,
J. Plunkett-Cole and Mrs. Bill Marks
were Navy wives in charge of a novelty
stall. Mrs. S. Aarons had the cake-
stall, Mrs, John- Langley headed a group.
at the groceries, Mesdames Angus Jones
and George Winwood did brisk business
at the Christmas gift-shop.
■☆ ☆ ☆
Fellow-officers of the bridegroom
formed a guard-of-honor at St. John’s,
Toorak, when Patricia Margaret, only
child of Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs, A, M.
Charlesworth, of South Yarra, was
married to Capt. Geoffrey Rollings.
Patricia’s gown of white Swiss em-
broidered organdie mounted on poult had
a wide V-neckline, long sleeves and a
trained skirt. The finger-tip tulle veil
was held with a small circlet of pearls,
and the bridal bouquet was of gardenias.
Nan Whight, the bridesmaid, wore a bal-
lerina frock of haze-grey organdie over
matching crepe, with a cummerbund
around the waist, and niched organdie
curvette. The bridegroom, only son of
Mr. and Mrs. G. Rollings, of Caulfield,
had Capt. David Mannett as best man.
Reception was at Glendower, Queen’s-
road.
* ☆ ☆
At a “thank-you” party for those who
had organised the pageant successfully
staged by the International Club, Mrs.
Herbert Brookes read a message from the
Queen, in which her Majesty expressed
thanks for the programme Mrs. Brookes
had sent her. Mrs. Brookes was assisted
in receiving guests by Mrs. J. D. De
Vries, who is convener of Nationals in
club activities, and Mrs. G, Hargrave,
secretary. Noted at the party were
Madame Jacques Chable, who has just
returned from a trip to her parents
Switzerland, Mrs. E. S. A. Bell, Mrs.
Lynch, Mrs. L. H. Eyles and Mrs. L.
Sigalas.
* ☆ *
A superb collection of Royal-vis
ensembles, designed for races, garden
parties and formal evening functions
was shown by Madame Caroline Cham
brelent in her miniature French salon
Little Collins-street. The line was simpl
but elegant, the materials rich, the color
subtle. Very pale-pink shantun 0
fashioned a summer suit, the skirt slim
the jacket loose. Under it was worn
halter-necked ' blouse of pink-and-white
candy-striped silk, the striped silk also
lining the jacket. A mushroom-hat o
Leghorn straw (Thomas Harrison de
signed- all the hats worn in the collec
tion) was worn with a suit of green
cream-spotted tie-silk. The fitted double-
breasted jacket had a cowl-collar. The
vogue for “separates” was seen in a
sheath-dress of black organza mounted
on black silk and made with a chemise
bodice. It was waisted with a wide cum-
merbund of black-and-white-checked silk
and was first seen worn under a bolero-
jacket of white waffle pique. Later bodice
and cummerbund were worn with a wide,
full skirt of black organza. *
One of the loveliest garden-party
frocks was a bouffant silver-grey
organza. It was worn under a full-
length coat of coffee-colored Chantilly
lace and topped with a huge white straw
hat worn straight on the head. A beauti-
ful short evening-frock of pale-pink
pleated nylon worn over stiffened petti-
coats had a strapless top made entirely
of pink feathers with an osprey curling
up at each side of the bodice. “Blue
Mountain” was the name given to a slim
satin gown in deep-blue tonings. The
bodice had a draping of matching
organza caught at the back in a large
bow, whilst in front of the bodice was
a cluster of pink roses and lily-of-the-
valley.
For the older woman Madame Cham-
brelent has cut the evening decolletage
with a deep-V back and front and just
covering the shoulders.
In another gown one shoulder was
covered, and one lovely design featured
a cuffed bodice. With a white satin
gown, its fullness at the back falling
into a slight train, was worn a white satin
stole banded in white Arctic-fox fur.
Bambi Shmith, one of the two models
who showed the gowns (Lydia Leplat was
the other), wore a strapless gown of
white guipure-lace mounted on organdie.
Bands of cafe-au-lait velvet emphasised
the bustline and ended in long ends with
posies of pink roses and lily-of-the-
valley. Sequins and diamente were used
discreetly. A cerise chiffon gown had
embroidery of sequins and pearls
mounted on bands of white satin and
then veiled with the chiffon. This em-
broidery was set diagonally across the
top of the deep-pleated hemline and was
also seen on the V-shaped strapless
bodice.
* ☆ ☆
At a meeting at the Toorak home
of Mrs. John Baillieu it was decided to
hold the Empire Concert in aid of
Y.W.C.A. on February 15 at the Town
Hall. Mrs. Jim Fitzgerald was appointed
chairman of the concert-committee.
Messrs. Bert Snelling and Charles Dom-
ing will .choose the artists. Ticket-secre-
tareis are Mesdames Peter Isaacson and
Bruce Rose, and Mary Lewis and Eliza-
beth McMeekin. Y.W.C.A. representa-
tives at the meeting were Mrs. T. C.
Rehtoul, Mrs. Essington Lewis, Mrs.
John Cordner, Miss Eileen Woodward
and Miss Joyce Truelove. Others present
who will help the concert to success were
Mrs. Harry Coldham, Mrs. A. Isaacson,
Mrs. Aubrey Gibson and Mrs. J. Shackell.
☆ ☆ *
Giro’s was the setting for the dinner-
dance given by Mr- and Mrs. Leo Guest
to celebrate the host’s birthday. The
hostess wore a lovely bouffant gown of
white tulle and white Chantilly lace. Her
daughter Jan was attractive in pale-blue
embroidered Swiss organza. Mrs. Ken
Guest’s mole faille gown was embroidered
in silver. In bouffant white tulle were
Mrs. Graham Nathan and Mrs. Leo
Curtis. Mrs. John Shaw danced in a
short black organza frock. The bodice
of Lady Connelly’s- frock was grey
sequin-trimmed lace, the skirt of pleated
taffeta. With her nut-brown tulle frock
Mrs. W. McGowan wore a matching
taffeta coat.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES HENRY GARDNER late
of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
DAPHNE ROSE GARDNER has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4307 of 1953 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend ybu may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
23rd day of February 1954 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
E. G. SAYECH, Solicitor, 133 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO ANTANAS TABACEV late of 7 De
Chair Road Brookvale New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that FREDERICK
THOMAS STEWART has filed an answer
to Petition No. 3012 of 1953 praying
for Divorce on the ground of your adultery
with DORIS MAY STEWART If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 23rd of
February 1954 and obtain a copy of the
answer without charge from Mr. G. M.
STAFFORD, Solicitor, of 77-79 Elizabeth*
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EVA JOAN CROOK late of Holdsworth
Street MacDonaldtown N.SiW. —-TAKE
NOTICE that CECIL JOHN CROOK has
filed a Petition for Dissolution of
Marriage No. 3474 of 1953 on the ground
of your desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
ippearanee in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
23rd February 1954 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. HERON ROBERTSON PARK-
HILL ROFE & MOFFITT, Solicitors, of
12 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW y
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO LESLIE GEORGE FERGUSON late
of Paddington. —TAKE NOTICE that
DELCIE EILEEN FERGUSON has filed a
Petition for Divorce N 5. 1180 of 1953 on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards " without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
26th day of January 1954 and obtain a
copy of the Petition free of charge from
D. H. McDonald, Solicitor, 17 Martin
Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM CEDRIC THOMPSON. —
TAKE NOTICE that GLORIA MAY
THOMPSON has filed Petition No. 4182
of 1953 for divorce on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Registry King Street Sydney
by the 16th February 1954 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
J. C. PAYNTER, Solicitor, of 107 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN PATRICK LONG late of 161
Hargrave Street Paddington.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARTHA LONG has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1274 of 1953
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 17th February 1954 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without chares
from KEITH YOUMAN, Solicitor, of 29
Bligh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
jFailli mi ihe
m
What we build in this country, let us build it
round the homes of the individuals.
There is no saying what greatness for the leader-
ship of this nation, even for the moulding of world
thought, will come out of the humblest Australian
home. I’ll give you a British example of our own
time—Lord Reith.
John Reith was the fifth son of a Scottish jiivine.
For five years in Glasgow he served an apprenticeship
in engineering, as thousands of Australian boys are
doing right now.
At 38 he was knighted on his appointment as
Director-General of the British Broadcasting Corpora-
tion. Since he left that post he has served as Cabinet
Minister and high public official. And now he is
a Peer of the Realm and the holder of Royal honours.
This was Lord Reith’s great work; that he made
the 8.8. C. a voice of Faith, a vehicle that was able
to turn the near-despair of Britons in 1940 to a Belief
that blossomed in victory.
It was the 8.8. C. news to which oppressed nations,
speaking different languages, listened at the risk of
punishment, because they knew it was thg Truth, the
point around which their ultimate salvation revolved.
“I do not claim any credit for what I did;” said
Lord Reith in. a recent address —and this is his
testimony to Belief and his attachment to truth that
I’d like to bring home to my fellow-Australians.
“The -light that was in me was lit in the Manse
of the College Church in Glasgow; and it’s to a
saintly father and mother, if credit at all, that credit
is due.”
It’s fine to see a great man humble in his own
sight. And I like to think that in Australian homes
there is that spiritual essence which will produce
men of Reith’s stamp and vision for the great days
that lie ahead of us here.
~/V /VasT^yS
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Citizens’ “Messiah”
Two thousand choristers from
70 choral societies in city and
suburbs filled the space
ordinarily occupied by.listeners
at Melbourne Town Hall and
beefed, brayed and bellowed the
“Messiah.” The only listeners
to the enormous uproar were
sundry critics and officials
grouped underneath the organ,
which also groaned and sighed
and rumbled.
It would have been imagined
that Handel’s vast compendium
of music would have become as
featureless as an avalanche
under this bombardment. The
contrary was the case, however.
The poignant words of the story
could be heard, there was an
astonishing agreement on all
hands about the tempo, and
when contralto Maureen Boyce,
Eric Mitchelson, tenor, con-
tralto Lauris Elms and the big
bass of Douglas Phillips came
into the discussion the effect
was thrilling.
Clive Douglas directed the
singing and originator of the
Citizens’ Messiah, Norman
Shepheard, was master-of-cere-
monies for the last time.
* ❖ ❖
The Music of the Future
“F.S.”; I admire Sir Bernard
Heinze as a conductor but find
difficulty in following him when
he gets into the realms of
aesthetics. Since his return from
abroad he has been talking about
the new electronic music which
he says will in the not-so-distant
future eliminate orchestras, ex-
ecutants and conductors and
make Bach, Beethoven and
Mozart into back numbers. He
calls it concrete music.
To illustrate his point, he
tapped a jug and dropped a spoon
and they both made different
noises. The composer of the
future, who must be primarily
an electronic engineer, will record
these noises and filter out their
frequencies to make harmonic
patterns and built up complex
rhythms by juggling spools to-
gether. The proof of the im-
portance of concrete music, he
said, was that it was all the rage
in Paris, where a special depart-
ment had been created to exploit
it. This evidence, I think, can
be disregarded. Plenty of silly
things have been all the rage
in Paris —modem art, for in-
stance.
As for Sir Bernard’s claims
for electronic music, they have
already been substantiated in the
case of the camera, the gramo-
phone and the films. You can
set up a gramophone in a gully
and make a recording of the
noises which is almost perfect
and you can reproduce the
record. You can also get the
most extraordinary effects by
running your machine faster or
slower. But all you have then
is another set of noises which
is still not music, but only the
material for music, just as the
pigments in Winsor and New-
ton’s tubes are the material for
a picture.
The composer will still have
to get musical ideas into his
head if he is to make a composi-
tion of them, and the musical ex-
pression of those ideas will still
be governed by the same laws as
governed Bach, Beethoven and
Mozart, unless fresh ones are
discovered. Beethoven didn’t
get the song of the cuckoo or
whatever the bird was that he
put into his Fifth Symphony
from a record —he went out into
the fields and listened. But the
use he made of it was determined
by the musical taste or criterion
that Beethoven had and which
few of his contemporaries had.
Of course, I m|y not have
grasped Sir Bernard’s explana-
tion. However, he has arranged
for records to be sent to Mel-
bourne and will offer them to the
A.B.C. for broadcast. In New
York Peggy Gran-
ville-Hicks is in* the forefront
of the movement,
$ ❖ ♦>
“The Day’s Mischief”
This, by Leslie Storm and pro-
duced by John Appleton, is
Sydney Mercury’s latest, and has
to do with a schoolmaster who
becomes the object of a school-
girl crush by one of his teen-
age pupils. In a muddled
platonic way he feels some affec-
tion for the girl and goes out to
meet her on© night to straighten
out the business. The girl dis-
appears just after he leaves her,
he is suspected of seducing her
and "doing her in, the police
begin dragging the river, the
schoolmaster is asked to resign
from the school and the whole
village is up in arms against him
and his wife.
The piece is all worked out
on a fast melodramatic key,
although it has some pretensions
to drama and tragedy aqd would
be better without, them. Mr.
Appleton’s production is pushed
along at a good bat, and Peter
Houston as the schoofie, Brenda
Senders as his wife, Wendiy
Blacklock as the youngster assist
him immensely. Kenneth
Warren, as the father of the
.missing girl, turns in an out-
standing performance and is well
supported by Ruth Parkhill and
Sheila Macaffee as his wife and
neurotic sister.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“The Gentle People”
Put on by Melbourne National
Theatre, this ■ play, by Irwin
Shaw, is a gentle tale of two
gentle old men who spend their
evenings sitting in an old boat
tied to a wharf fishing for
sticklebacks and dreaming of
the giant fish they would catch
if they were only millionaires
and had a magnificent steam-
yacht on the Florida reaches or
somewhere.
They are rudely reminded of
the real world when a very
nasty fellow comes along and
succeeds in blackmailing them
into signing q document saying
that he has lent them * 10,000
dollars. The consequences
stemming therefrom take them to
a night court, the steam-room of
Russian bath and other un-
pleasant places, and the play
ends up with the lesson that
there is no security or sur-
cease from care in this world.
The dialogue ambles along in
leisurely and amusing fashion,
and was given excellent expres-
sion by George Fairfax, Alex
Scott, Noel Ferrier, Zoe Gald-
well and others. George Pravda
as Phillip Anagnos, one of the
old cronies, gave another of his
outstanding interpretations.
Artbursts
Melbourne Art
A sudden rush of artistic busi-
ness before the usual summer re-
cess has brought Juergen Kueper
to the Athenaeum Gallery in
Melbourne. Elma Amor and
Brita Sievers to the Peter Bray,
W. Vickery Herd to the Park
Galleries in Collins-street and
Harry McClelland to the Vic-
torian Artists’.
Mr. McClelland continues to
exploit the formula which has
stood him in good stead in the
past in abo. sketches, and Mr.
Herd does much the same. Elma
Amor has “Red Nude,” “Green
Nude,” “Blue Heads,” “Girl with
White Hair” and “Man’s Head in
Red” to indicate that there is
not going to be any darned non-
sense about Nature in her pic-
tures. The pottery of Brita
Sievers is highly polished, but
its line is monotonous and as if
machine-made.
More interesting is Juergen
Kueper, a young German who,
after spending two years in Aus-
tralia, has gone back to Europe
for further study with the in-
tention of returning. “Street
Scene, Paris,” is bright and
lively, and “Country Scene, Vic-
toria,” catches some of the
mood of the occasion, as also
does “Beach Scene, Mount
Martha.”
Talkies
“Belles de Null”
A sparkling French wit laced
with many shrewd satirical asides
on life in this century informs
this fantasy by Rene Clair, whose
invention of the comic situation
seems inexhaustible, and whose
gallery of town-dwelling char-
acters contains types universally
recognisable and drawn with
penetrating insight into human
nature.
The chief character is a sort
of Gallic Walter Mitty. A
young composer who finds com-
posing rather wearing in the
midst of chattering jackhammers,
roaring motor-bikes and engine-
tuning from a near-by garage,
he seeks surcease in dreams, in
which he finds adventure
amorous, martial and musical,
during which he roams back
over the centuries.
It is here, in switching scenes
and periods at high speed and
in mixing past and present, that
Clair’s genius for the comic gets
full scope. For instance, in
one scene the dreamer is escaping
in a jeep from the revenge of
D’Artagnan, Porthos and com-
pany. Coming through his home
town, with the breaths of the
pursuing steeds almost, as it
were, hot on his exhaust-pipe,
he runs out of juice. He
demands a few gallons, only to
be informed that he’ll have to
wait 300 years for it to be dis-
covered. •
But Clair hasn’t depended
wholly on the anachronism for
comedy. Some of the best of
it lies in the contemporary scene,
in particular when the composer’s
friends are either trying to get
him to sleep so that he may. enjoy
his dreaming, or preventing him
from doing so where the continu-
ation of his dreams threatens his
easiness of mind. •
Gerard Philipe as the dreamer
is perfectly cast, and the Italian
actress Gina Lollabrigida demon-
strates how easy it is for a beauti-
ful woman to make a man do
just what he proposes to do. The
English sub-titling is particularly
good. (Sydney Esquire.)
+J+
“City of Bad Men”
It’s Carson City, back in'the
days when bad men were so
tough they’d have been con-
sidered pansies if, after having
been shot in the chest, they
couldn’t cough up the bullets and
carry on.
The issue in this opus —which
concerns a fell plot to snatch
the gate-money during the Fitz-
simmons-Corbett world-title
fight—is complicated by the in-
sertion among the goodies and'
baddies of a good-baddie, which
seems quite unfair to those
patrons who have been condi-
tioned to urge on only the lily-
white shot-proof brand of hero.
There is a modicum of excite-
ment during the recovery of the
dough by the good-baddie, who
thereafter faces the sad prospect |
of being a goodie. Dale Robert-
son is the cleft-chinned satanic
Galahad, and Jean Crain the
girl who never lost faith in him.
(Sydney Plaza.)


You're Wrong, Delaney
By BANT SINGER
CHAPTER XVI
FIRST 1 reckon to tell
Keough everything Elaine
told me, about her knowing
where Peters is and what
she says about Kathy. If you
got any sense, Delaney, my mind
tells me, you tell Keough the
whole thing. But another part
of me keeps on reminding me
about Peters. Peters knew what
Elaine was going to tell me.
Peters knew Elaine would talk
about the three thousand and
about it’s being too bad for
Kathy if I didn’t come through
with it. So he knew that 1 would
know that Elaine, would know
where Peters was. So he knows
that, and he knows there’s a
chance of me yelping to the
police for help. He knows that’s
,a "strong chance, but he tells
Elaine to see me just the same.
What’s he working on? What
makes him risk that? Could be
explanations for that. Got to
be an explanation for that.
I lie in the bed waiting for
Keough and all in a fret because
it’s hard .to think straight not
knowing where Kathy is. I
don’t want to think Peters got
hold of her, because I can’t see
how he could do it; not in broad
daylight and her in a cab going
from the hotel to the hospital.
Maybe I been too sudden, may-
be she’s had to wait for a cab
or there was a traffic-jam or
something. But I know I haven’t
been too sudden. Kathy left
the phone and she went straight
to do what I told her —get a cab
and get to the police. Police
say she isn’t there. So she isn’t
there and I want to think this out
I got'to think that Peters knows
where she is. You open a pot
with three sixes and one player
sits pat and there’s only you and
him left in and you buy a pair
of fours you can bet his pat
hand is a straight or a flush. If
it isn’t and he ain’t bluffing you
can be in trouble.
Peters don’t bluff. I never
said much to that bird and he
never said much to me, but noth-
ing of what he said was bluffing.
So I got to believe he wasn’t
bluffing when he sent Elaine to
take me up on that hill, and he
wasn’t bluffing when he told her
to tell me it could be too bad
for my girl-friend.
He gets all that to me and he
gets Kathy means he’s some
place where Keough can’t get at
him. Keough and all the police
been combing this Black Springs
for Peters three days and can’t
locate him. That means Peters
is good and the hideout he’s
got is good. He snatches Kathy
in broad daylight in the middle
of town means he’s good, too,
or got somebody working for
him who is pretty good. Elaine
knows where Peters is and I
tell Keough about Elaine means
Keough goes to work on her.
She’ll do anything to stop the
police finding Peters because she
wants that letter and she thinks
I’m going to cough-up three
thousand which she’ll give Peters
for the letter. She don’t care
what happens to Peters after
that, but she cares what happens
to him while he’s got the letter.
And she knows a way to get in
touch with Peters if she has to.
Way I see it Peters has got Kathy
and these police got to get him
quick before he can do anything
to Kathy. Because he’ll do
plenty if he’s cornered. He’ll do
plenty, because he’s that kind,
and because he’s got it in for
me and he guesses hurting Kathy
won’t be good for me. Kathy
don’t mean a thing to Elaine,
nothing means a thing to Elaine
except that letter. So I can’t
tell Keough about Elaine, not
just yet, but I got to wise him
about Kathy.
I make up my mind about this,
and before I get my second-
thoughts Keough came.
“You look bothered, Delaney.
What’s up?”
“Listen, Mr. Keough.” I tell
him about me calling up Kathy
and what I told her to do.
“What in hell possessed you
to do that?”
“Look, Mr. Keough. It was
an idea I got. You lie here, like
me, thinking things over, and
you get ideas. Well, I got ideas
about this Peters. I know it
sounds silly, but I got a notion
Peters will do me dirt any way
he can. He”
“That knock on the nut must
of addled your brains, De-
laney, How in hell would it do
Peters any good to go for this
girl?”
“How do I know? How do
I .know what he’s got in that
noggin of his? Look, the girl’s
missing, isn’t she? You got”——
Keough gives me a black look.
“You got nothing else to do
but lie in bed getting wild
notions,” he growls. “Me, I get
about two hours’ sleep- since you
fell down them steps. I’m all
day and all night chasing
througji this damn’ town looking
for Peters. I got headquarters
on my back, I got half the citi-
zens of Black Springs on my
back and the other half laugh-
ing at me. And you drag me
up here with a silly tale about
Peters kidnapping your girl.-
You”
“Listen, Mr. Keough. You
got to listen! Kathy started
to go to the police-station and
she never got there! She”
“Of course she never 1 got
there. She probably thought you
was having a nightmare or
something and just told you that
to keep you quiet. Then she
just went back to her work
and”
“I tell you she left the hotel.
I know it. And Peters grabbed
her and”
“Rubbish! You trying to tell
me this Peters is invisible or
something? You trying to tell
me he just picked her up, in
daylight, with the place packed
with police watching for him
and most of the town all eyes
and ears? You trying to tell
me be just grabbed her like that,
in the main street, and put her
under his arm and walked off?
What the hell do you take me
for, Delaney?”
I nearly took a fit trying to
get a hold of myself. ■ I nearly
burst right out and told him
about Elaine. I nearly told him
what X thought of him and his
police. What a fine lot of
police! This Peters is in their
town, holed up somewhere, and
they go through the place for
three days and haven’t got a
clue! They haven’t got a clue
and now Peters picks up Kathy
and this big dope thinks I
dreamed it. Somehow I got to
make him see it.
“Look, Mr. Keough, why
don’t you call tfre station? Call
the hotel. Find out where Kathy
is, if Peters hasn’t got her, like
you say.”
He looks at me and his blue
eyes way back under the big
brows look like he wants to
kick me in the pants. Then he
gives a sigh.
“All right,” he says. “Just to
show- you what a dope you are.”
He walks out the ward to
the telephone-room and I lie
there and hear the handle turn.
Then I hear him talk. He stops
talking and buzzes the bell
again. He talks some more.
Then he buzzes again and this
time he talks sharp. I can hear
the sound of him talking, but not
the words.
He comes back to my bed and
this time his eyes are glittering.
Glittering points.
“All right,” he says. “She’s
not been to the station, she’s
not at the hotel. Nobody seen
her at the hotel after she
answered your phone-call. All
right, I’ve put a call out. My
boys are looking for her. Now,'
Delaney, you better tell me what
give, you this notion about
Peters.”
“Nothing. Nothing you can
put a hand on. It’s just a notion.
I been lying here, thinking about
that Peters. I got scared. I’m
plenty damn’ scared, if you want
to know.”
“You look it,” he says. He
stands there a minute or two,
just looking at me. Then he
turns away.
“It’s still a funny notion,” he
says, and, goes out of the ward.
So I wanted to keep Kathy
out of it, but now she’s in it.
She’s right in it and it’s
because of she done for
me and the way I feel about
her. I lie there, but I ought
to be outside. I ought to be
outside and looking for Elaine
to shake it out of her where
Peters is. But I can’t, be out-
side because if I get up the
nurse will see, me and try to
stop me iand that would cause a
fuss, and maybe bring the police.
Because there’s police out in the
hospital grounds. They’re out
there watching, because Keough
thinks maybe I’ll take a powder
or maybe Peters will come there
looking for me and the three
thousand. So if I try to get out
I’ll be stopped. I’ll be told it’s
a job for the police and I got
to stay there till they do it.
Only way I can speed it up is
call the police and tell them
about Elaine, and then I’d have
to make it stick. Only way to
do that would be spill the lot
—about Fat, about the letter.
They’d be hours sorting that out
and finding Elaine and making
her talk, and all the time Peters
would have Kathy. He’d have
Kathy and if he’s the coot I
think he is he’d know the police
had Elaine and.he’d think the
hand was played and maybe
blow his roof. So it’s no good
telling them about Elaine.
Longer Peters can be stopped
from blowing his roof the bet-
ter for Kathy. So I give away
any notion of telling about
Elaine and try to think of some-
thing else.
The nurses come in and get
ready for the evening meal. The
ward lights are on now, because
the days are mighty short at
this time of year. I lie there
and watch them and try to
think. But my mind is all
tangled up with itself and I’m
scared and can’t think straight.
I eat the food they bring and
nearly throw it up again.
Because I can’t help thinking
about Kathy and wondering
what sort of food she’s eating,
and how scared she is. The
nurse comes and sees my plate.
“What’s the matter, Delaney?
Can’t you eat?”
“Not hungry, I guess,”
“H’m. That’s what we get for
letting you go and gorge your-
self at Mrs, Paterson’s expense.”
“Yeah, yeah. That’s right.
Nurse. We sure stuffed our-
selves. We had afternoon-tea,
too.” ,
“Half your luck.”
She takes the plate away.
“Do you want sweets?”
“No, thanks, Nurse. Couldn’t
eat another thing.”
She leaves me. I light a
cigarette. It don’t help me
much. Outside it’s dark and
the ,ward is sort of closed in,
like a room gets when the lights
are on and the heater turned
up and outside the night is dark
and cold. Dark and cold. Dark
and cold. It starts running
through my mind like a tune.
Because now it’s worse 'about
Kathy. Some visitors come to
the other men in the ward. No
visitors for me. And that makes
it worse again. Because all I
can do is lie and worry.
After a while I get kind of
tired of the worrying and my
mind comes out of the worry
and I start thinking straight.
I lie down and pull the blankets
over my head, making like I’m
tired and sleepy. What I’m
doing is shutting myself in under
the blankets so I can think.
Presently I’m outside the
tangle and can look at it and
see all the angles. It’s like you
got a fishing-line all snarled up
and you just can’t cut it, you
got to find a loose end and
follow it back.
The loose erid I find is Elaine.
She’s loose, all right, because
Peters can’t show himself, and
Kathy held somewhere, and me
in this bed. But Elaine is loose ;
she can show and go here and go
there. So Elaine is the loose end
of the tangle for me.
And right then it hit me. It
hit me so hard I nearly jumped
out of the bed. Up on the hill
that afternoon she said, “In
some ways, Delaney,. you’re a
fool.” I’m a fool, all right, be-
cause it ought to have hit me
then, up on the hill. When she
let on about Peters, that’s when
it ought to have hit me. Be-
cause Elaine knew where Peters
was and she could get in touch
with him \vhen she wanted, and
that meant Peters was right there
in Elaine’s house or maybe in a
shed or the garage or some place
right close.
’ I ought to have seen that right
away. Because all them police
comb Black Springs for three
days. They comb the hotels and
the boarding-houses. They do
over the pool-rooms and the
freight-yards and the sawmills.
They visit all the houses where
a coot like Peters might find
friends. They watch the streets
and block the roads and cover
the trains and the airfield. They
turn out the shanties and shacks
along the river. They go into
empty buildings and look under
hails and in ceilings and do the
churches and under bridges. No
Peters, So they do it all again,
and this time they go to places
they didn’t go to before. Now
they’ve got search-warrants and
Black Springs wonders what hit
it. (
They do all that; and still no
Peters. So they sit down and
talk it over and scratch their
heads. And somebody—maybe
Keough himself —tries to think
like Peters. But it’s no good.
There’s enough police in and
around Black Springs to catch a
hundred men and they even
search their own police-station
and the cells, but still no Peters.
One place they don’t look.
Because that’s where Peters got
himself shot, that’s where he
bumped a woman he couldn’t
scare, that’s wherb he lost his
gun and the police got it and
he knows it. Way they see it
that would be one place Peters
would keep, away from. Because
it’s the home of a top citizen
and always people there and
police coming there and looking
over the garden for tracks. No
place for Peters, the way they
see’ it.
Because they don’t know
about Elaine. They don’t know
that Peters got her letter and
can make her turn somersaults if
he wants, -can make her see
Delaney and tell him to cough-
up the three thousand or it will
be too bad for Delaney’s girl-
friend.
(Continued on page 22)
What Has Been Told
Recovering from an attack,
Delaney is in Black Springs hos-
pital. He has been cleared of
suspicion in connection with the
deaths of Con Martini, night-
club proprietor, and Baler, a
Black Springs citizen. Peters,
who shot Martini, and who
attacked Delaney, is hiding in
the town. Peters believes De-
laney has £3OOO stolen from
Martini. Peters , has an in-
criminating letter written by
Mrs. Paterson to Baler. Delaney,
who is in love with Kathy Colter,
is as eager as Det. Keough to
locate Peters. Delaney and Mrs.
Paterson are alone together, and
she threatens him that unless he
gives her the £3OOO so that she
can give it to Peters in return
for the letter, Peters will harm
Kathy. Shortly afterwards
Kathy disappears. Delaney
frantically sends for Keough,


PRODUCTS OF THE
Bootes group
PRESENTS
■■>.
mm
i
:
bfll
i
6*.
3M
. .. .
UfT *
■I
i-XA "-■
M. ■ i
• - .
•a =
■
mm
";^:4
/ Hi
'
•.■■•■■ ' ■■■■.'■■■■■■:: . v•■••:
L.
aigiiilaligaß
THE
HUMBER SUPER SNIPE
Here is -the car that takes you straight into “A New Era” of
finer motoring. The new immensely powerful “Blue Riband”
O.H.V. engine, new coil suspension, supreme comfort, panor-
amic vision, and elegant styling provide a new best in powerful
luxurious motoring.
■
II mm
m
: ■■■'■ ■
i >
3
.
■ •
■
BMWWB
Wmm —iiß
■
THE
HUMBER HAWK
Brilliant new styling, beauty of line and a fine performance,
coupled with economy are the hallmarks of the new Humber
Hawk. Here is your opportunity to own and drive a car of
distinction, elegance and quality, ideal for business and family
needs, yet moderately priced.
m
m l
■
i m
m
I n
I !
Wm
THE
HILLMAN MINX
Twenty-one years of progress and achievement are behind the
new “Anniversary” Hillman Minx. Twenty-one thousand
million miles have perfected this latest member of the family for
you, providing new appearance, all round increased economy,
more comfort and still greater refinement in every detail.
Products of the Rootes Group, Melbourne , Australia.
HUMBER, HILLMAN, SUNBEAM-TALBOT CARS' 9 COMMER, KARRIER TRUCKS


SUPER DC-6B COMFORT
Fly Canadian Pacific to North America in Giant
Super DG-6B Airliners—the fastest, most modern,
and most luxurious aircraft across the Pacific.
Only Canadian Pacific has Super DC-6B’s on this
route! Only Canadian Pacific provides free 18f
hours stopover at Honolulu—where you stay at
the famous Moana Hotel—right on Waikiki Beach.
NEW! CANADIAN PACIFIC SOUTH AMERICAN
SERVICE, Vancouver to Lima, Peru. Direct connections
to Santiago, Buenos Aires, Sao Paula and Rio.
\
——
m
For full details consult your Local
Travel Agent or Canadian Pacific
Air Lines Limited, 247 George
Street, Sydney, and 59, William
Street, Melbourne; or Union Steam
yShip Co. (General Agents).
I DEPARTURES FROM SYDNEY
EVERY TUESDAY
AIRLINES
CANADIAN PACIFIC AIR I INFS LIMITED INC. IN CANADA
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY!
REASONS WHY AN
IKKl'sim flex' WINDMILL
you*
£&£/
buy
0
1. Ball Bearing.
2. Totally Enclosed.
3. Self Oiling.
4. No Running Cost.
5. .Supplied with 4 Post
Steel Towers.
J. R. REID & SONS PTY. LTD.
401-3 Kent Street, Sydney,
But I know about Elaine, and
it’s guineas to gooseberries she’s
got Peters up there somewhere in
her own place. Maybe now
Kathy’s there, too. The police
don’t know where Peters is. But
Elaine knows. Maybe Kathy
knows. Now Delaney knows.
Under the blankets it comes to
me so clear I get a kind of laugh
out of it.
I get a kind of laugh out of
it because not telling the police
about Elaine was right. I was
worried about that, but now I’m
not worried about it Because by
now Peters - will know from
Elaine that I promised to get
the three thousand tomorrow.
Peters won’t move till to-
morrow. He’s maybe got Kathy,
but Kathy is safe till tomorrow,
because Peters knows if he does'
anything to her there’ll be no
three thousand. Elaine is safe
till tomorrow, too, because she
expects the three thousand will
be handed tp her and that Peters
will give her the letter for it.
That Peters!
The way he sees it he’s got the
thing pretty well in the bag.
Because tomorrow, when he gets
the three thousand, he’ll still
hold that letter till Elaine gets
him out of Black Springs. She’s
the card that fills his hand, and
I’m betting guineas to goose-
berries he’s got a scheme cooked
that gets him out of Black
Springs the minute he gets the
dough.
But what he don’t know, and
what Elaine don’t know, is that
1 know Where Peters is and got
it pretty well doped out how the
play lies. What he don’t know
is that I haven’t got the. three
thousand and never did have it.
What he don’t know is that for
me it don’t matter a hoot what
happens to him or to Elaine, and
that if it wasn’t for, Kathy I’d
just lie here in this’ bed and
sleep sound tonight and not be
bothered by Elaine or Peters,
and in a day or two maybe I’d
be fit again and thumbing my
nose at Black Springs from a
seat in a south-bound plane.
If it wasn’t for Kathy.
Kathy got into this through
me and now I reckon I know
how to get her out. Because
there’s something else Peters
don’t know.
He don’t know me!
I lie there a little longer with
the blankets over me and think
it out. Then I come out from
under them and take a look in
my locker. My clothes are there.
On a little shelf above the
clothes is my money, notes and
silver and copper. And in my
head I see a name and address
printed in an electoral roll;
9760 Paterson, Elaine Mar-
guerite, 14 Silvermine St., Black
Springs, home duties, F. I don’t
know this Black Springs. I
don’t know where Silvermine-
street is. Not right now I don’t.
But I know where Peters is.
And Peters don’t know I
know it. And he don’t know
me!
CHAPTER XVII
CO I got,to lie in this bed. Out-
side it’s dark and cold, and
Kathy somewhere with that
Peters. I’m dead sure he’s
snatched her, because there’s no
word from Keough. It’s dark
and cold outside and Kathy
scared, but I got to lie here. Be-
cause it isn’t time yet. If I start
anything now I’ll get stopped
before I start. There’s police
outside this hospital because
Keough knows I’m Peters’s meat
and he’s got them there just in
case Peters shows. Peters won’t
show. I know why he won’t
show. I don’t want him to
show. I want him to stay where
he is and rest easy and think
about tomorrow and the dough
he thinks I’ll give Elaine for
him.
There’s a few visitors for the
other beds. Every time some-
one comes in the door 1 look;
because maybe Elaine will come
tonight. Maybe she’ll come with
more word from Peters, word
about Kathy. Or maybe she’ll
come just to see that everything
is fixed for tomorrow. I don’t
want.her to come. Because she’s
sharp and I’m edgy‘and maybe
she' comes I drop a word or
there’s something in my voice
and she suspects me. She wants
that letter, and if she thought I
didn’t mean to kick in with the
three thousand she’d maybe tip
Peters to watch it.
I got to keep calm some way,
because it isn’t time yet, and to
keep my mind off Kathy I think
about Elaine. I don’t think
about what I’m going to do
about her, and about Peters and
Kathy, because I’m hoping I
won’t have to do anything about
Elaine, and I know what I’m
going to do, about Peters.
Once or twice, while I’m
waiting, I get a little scary and
think I ought to call the cops
and tell ’em where Peters is and
let them go up against him. But
each time I think of Kathy and
that stops me. Because I don’t
want Kathy hurt. I push down
off my pillow and lie flat on my
back and get my feet up on the
bed-rail, under the blankets.
Fighters do that before they go
in the ring, because it runs the
blood from the feet, and when
they get to their feet to go into
the ring the blood rushes back
and their feet tingling and full
of life. I still got my side
strapped up, but it isn’t sore if I
don’t twist too much.- My right
wrist still in plaster, too. A
man needs a free right hand.
Mine isn’t free, but that plaster
is like a club, and maybe it’ll
come in handy. So I lie on my
back and drowse a little, be-
cause I got my early thinking
done, and the next thinking will
be done by the minute, and 1
got to wait for the first minute.
Just about when I’m certain
the nurse has forgot the time
the bell rings for the visitors to
leave. They leave. The nurses
com© and take the flowers out
and straighten the beds. I get up
on my pillow again. My bed is
straightened, the top spread
folded and put away, the blankets
moved down, my robe folded
and put in my locker with my
slippers.
“Sleep well, children,” one
nurse says. She’s happy to see
the last of us. Maybe she’s got
a date. It’s a cold night for
dates.
The lights go out and all we
got is a kind of dim reflection
from the landing outside the
ward coming through the door
transom. The nurses potter
round in the little equipment-
room. After a while I hear one
say something and the other
laugh and there’s nothing. I
know one nurse will be sitting
in the equipment-room. That’s
the room where the telephone
is.
I let some time go by. Then
I reckon it’s time to get started.
“You awake, Henry?”
I hear the footballer stir.
I called out so low he didn’t
hear it well enough. Maybe his
head was under the blankets.
“Henry, you awake?”
“What’s up?”
“Don’t yell, you dope!
Listen, could you do anything
with a stiff rum?”
“You had a old dog with no
teeth could he do anything with
a hamburger-steak ? ”
“Listen, I’ve had this. I’m
slipping down town and pick up
a drink or two.”
I hear him sit up. He’s only
a kid and something like a bit of
devilment draws him.
“Hey, they gatch you doing
that there’ll be trouble!”
“They won’t “ catch me. I
done this before. You stick to
me and you’ll be nursing a lovely
rum before long. Listen, where’s
a good joint for a drink after
hours in this town?”
“Riley’s. It’s called The Star. ‘
Last pub down the main street.
You know the bridge?”
“Yup.”
“Riley’s, is on the right going
down to the bridge. There’s a
lane. You go down the lane
there’s a door. Scratch on it.
Don’t knock, scratch. They’ll
ask who’s there. Tgll ’em Henry
Trulove sent you. She’ll be
right.”
“She better be.”
“She will be. Gripes, a rum
would go good!”
Old Man Morton spoke up.
“Am I in this, you blokes?”
“If you keep your mouth
shut.”
The door opened and the
nurse put her head in and says,
“Stop that whispering and go to
sleep.” The door shut again.
I wait a minute or so. Then
I slip out of the bed. It’s cold
outside. I leave my hospital
pyjamas on and pull my clothes
on over them. There’s a pair
of big woollen bed-socks. May-
be Elaine .knitted them. I pull
them on over my other socks.
I put the hospital robe on over
my clothes and tie the cord. Be-
cause I got no overcoat and it’s
cold outside. I got no hat. I
haven’t seen my hat since Peters
did me over that night.
“Henry, you got a hat?”
A man walking about in these
towns on a cold night all
wrapped up in a coat or robe
and no hat he sticks out like a
sore thumb.
“Try this.”
I pull one pillow from under
the other and put it under the
blankets and bunch the blankets
up. The nurse looks in and
doesn’t come too close she sees
a heap in my bed and to her
that’s Delaney.
I caffoot across to Henry’s
bed. He must have a head like
an elephant. The hat falls over
my ears. Maybe that’s good.
“Listen. The nurse comes in
and she comes right in one of
you make a fuss, get it? To
keep her from looking at my
bed, see?”
“OK.”
In the commandos we used to
sift through the sentries into our
own camps and go into huts full
Of sleeping men and lift a rifle
and pack and get out through
the sentries again. We did that
for practice, I got to get out of
a sleeping hospital, past some
drowsy night-nurses inside and
some cops just about blue with
cold outside. That’s, pie. Be-
cause the nurses don’t think
about patients going out on a
night like this, and the cops is
watching for someone to come
in, not go out. So I’m out of
the ward before Henry and
Morton know it. The nurse is
writing in a book with her feet
cooking at an electric fire. I’m
outside in a corner of the wide
portico which is the main
entrance and I’m glad about
the big socks and the robe. Be-
cause now I know how cold it is.
I put my shoes on and double-
knot the laces. You want to be
quick and silent you don’t want
any loose ends flapping.
It’s about sixty feet down the
curving drive to the gates and a
light every twenty feet or so.
The light-poles are high. They
light the drive, but not the
ground beyond the low hedge
that lines the drive. Over the
gate I can see a neon hospital
sign.
I can’t see any cops, but I
know where One or maybe two
of them are. Because there’s a
big black sedan parked just
away from the entrance and I
can hear its radio. There’s may-
be others out around, but they
got any sense they’re sheltered
in co/ners and places and they
wOn’t be watching the ground.
My mind gets to working by
the second. I’m pretty near flat
to the ground when I go round
the base of the portico pillars
and belly-crawl into the shadow
behind the hedge. My side
don’t bother me, but the right
hapd is clumsy feeling ahead for
sticks and other things. I’m not
cold any more, because the way
I’m travelling it’s hard work,
and when I get to the shadow
near the big gates I’m plenty
blowing and hot in places.
I huddled by the hedge and
took a rest. There’s a white
picket-fence between me and the
road and outside the gate, fac-
ing. to the left, another black
sedan. I couldn’t, see whether
there was anyone in it, until
they struck a match and lit a
cigarette.
I went back along that hedge,
crawling most of the way, to-
wards the hospital, for about
thirty feet. Then I hit for that
fence on a tangent, away from
the gates, and when I went over
the big sedan was faced away
from me, and*l left it there and
went away from it, keeping close
to the fence. Some way up the
fence was a cross-street, and f
was round it before it hit me
that there’d maybe be more
cops in back of the hospital
than in front, because if Peters
did try anything he wouldn’t
come in the front way.
So I took a chance and shot
across the street and kept on
going away. The main town was
down on my left, and pretty
soon I found a cross-street and
turned left until I struck another
turning left again. A couple of
cars passed me, and a passenger-
bus, a cyclist and two women
hurrying somewhere, but I was
just a citizen with .his coat up to
his ears and his hat down to his
ears, hurrying' to get home out
of the cold.
All these streets got names,
but the name-board is too high
up for the street-lights to shine
on them. I’d climb one, but
my hand is no good for it, and
if somebody saw a citizen climb-
ing a street-sign they might get
inquisitive. I’m pretty sure the
street I want isn’t in this part
of town.
Nothing I want in this part
of town. Because I turn a
corner and right across the road
is the police-station, and I do a
kind of crayfish-flip back into
the shadow. There’s two cars
standing outside the station and
two cops in under the veranda
talking. I get out of there fast,
back the way I come. Now I
know the layout, because you


WHISKY IS A GOOD DRINK
mm
mm
m
m
mm
m
m
/.
“I always keep CORIO in the cupboard!”
CORIO
IS A GOOD
WHISKY
‘fiario Special
When you have a guest for the evening or when one of
the boys drop in for a bit of a chat out-of-committee, you
have a tailor-made occasion for a good whisky, that quiet,
well-mannered drink that helps promote good-fellowship.
Corio has a special place in your home for any eventuality
such as this because it is a good sincere whisky ... a special
whisky in fact. Fill your decanter with CORIO SPECIAL.
Gorio Special
OLD WHISKY
Look for the word OLD on the label
ITS YOUR LEGAL GUARANTEE
OF MELLOW MATURITY
&
mur
*
OLD
C533/44
give me any sort of landmark in
the dark I’m set. Ihe police-
station is a landmark. So 1
find another side-street and it
takes me into the main.
A clock over a store says
nine-sixteen. The main street is
well lighted. Nobody about.
It’s winter and night and cpld,
and the citizens stay home or
maybe gone to the movies, or
visiting. I know there’ll be fires
in the pool-rooms and fellows
there. There’s a truck or two -
and a few cars parked along the
street. A little dog comes up
and looks at me and makes like
he’ll be glad of my company,
but I don’t want no company
and throw a foot at him and he
scrams.
I wasn’t kidding about that
rum. I want the rum, and I
want to get some plage where
there’ll be citizens and a man
can ask a question without get-
ting himself stared at. So I start
down the main street towards
the river. I walk fast, because
a police-car comes they won’t
take much notice of a man walk-
ing fast in the main street-lights.
Man they’re looking for won’t
be walking in the main street.
I’m taking a chance, because
that hospital-robe is a whole lot ■
less like an overcoat when it’s
under electric-light, and I got to
hope if a police-car comes it’ll
be too busy going somewhere
for the cops to notice me. I stay
in the main street, under the
lights, because there’s cops
everywhere tonight, but there
won’t be many in the main
street.
The shops begin to peter out,
and I know I’m getting near the
river and the bridge. And over
the street is The Star hotel.
There’s a light in the main
entrance, and the door open,
and I figure that inside there
somebody sits knitting, or read-
ing, or brooding behind a desk
and an electric-fire under the
desk to keep them warm and
drowsy. There’s the black
mouth of a lane just past the
hotel. I slip across the road and
I’m in that lane and wait a half-
minute to get the light out of
my eyes.
The door is where Henry says
it is. You wouldn’t notice it un-
less you knew T it was there or
was making a search. I put my
ear to it and what I hear is the
blood pounding in my own
head. So I scratch on a panel
with my fingernails. Nothing
happens, I scratch again. I
don’t hear a thing, but the door
opens maybe an inch and a voice
comes out,
“Yes?”
“Henry Trulove sent me.”
“Where is he?”
“Up in the hospital. So was
I. I shot through. We’re dry
as wooden gods.”
“You a local?”
“No. The name’s Delaney.
Henry Trulove”
“Delaney, huh?”
“That’s right.”
I wait. He’s working some-
thing out.' Maybe he’s read
about Delaney in the papers.
Maybe he’s heard people talking
about Delaney.
“All right. Make it snappy.”
I make it snappy. Inside I
wait in a dark passage while he
chains the door, then follows
him. Round a corner there’s
another passage and at its end
a door. He pushes this open
and in the light I see he’s a
bantam with a face dead and
dry and all wrinkles. Retired
jockey, maybe. Disqualified
jockey is my bet. He sits in a
chair by the door and don’t even
look at me. Letting them in
and getting them out is his job
and he’s doing it.
There’s maybe fifteen Black
Springs citizens in there, with
drinks and talking low. The
lights are dim and plenty smoke.
They look at me, examine me
and give me away. You get your
drinks at a square opening in
the far wall. I get to it.
“Gimme a double-header rum,
overproof, and a bottle for the
road.”
“You going far?”
“Far enough.”
The barman grins at me,
serves my drink, reaches a bottle
up from somewhere and stands
it beside the drink. I put a note
on the sill and pick up the drink.
“Just a minute!”
I turn round. Two cops. I
hadn’t noticed them. They must
of been in back of the room
somewhere. The one speaks to
me is running his eyes over the
hospital-robe. The other stands
just behind him.
“What you doing here?” the
first one says. “You’re De-
laney. I know you. How’d you
. get here?”
I put the double rum where,
it belongs and feel the benefit.
It sharpens me, drives out the
cold. I look the cops over. I
got to think fast because this
could gum-up the works. I’m
started on something and keyed
up and got a long way to go.
Maybe what I’ve started won’t
come off, but I’m not giving up
just because this cop recognises
me.
“You know me,” I says. “So
what?”
“None of your cheek,” he
says, “You got no business
here.”
That was what I was waiting
for. The others in the room
stopped talking and was listen-
ing. The second cop looked
round at them. Some of them
looked right back at him. Be-
cause he had nothing on them.
Because he had no more busi-
ness in there, drinking after
hours than them. He was in uni-
form, and that made him have
less right to be drinking at any
time. That was all I wanted.
“You got any business, here
yourself?” I says.
“We just 'dropped in for a
quickie to beat the* cold,” says
the first one, all palsy-walsy be-
cause I called his bluff. “But
you’re supposed to be in hos-
pital. Keough .wouldn’t
like”
I shoved the bottle in under
my robe and picked up my
change.
“0.K.,” I says, “So it’s dull
in that hospital and I come d<swn
for a quickie to beat the cold.
You’re supposed to be —well,
you know and I know and
Keough knows where you’re
supposed to be. You keep your
guts and I’ll keep mine. 0.K.?”
“Well,” he says, “as long as
you get straght back there.”
I get outside and follow that
lane away from the main street.
Because now I got to keep Out
of the light. There was another
reason why I went to The Star.
The rum was one. The other
was to locate Silvermine-street.
I meant to ask someone in there,
but the cops stopped that. Be-
cause I had to keep Silvermine-
street away from Keough, That’s
why I didn’t ask Henry where it
was. I had to locate Silvermine-
street and then locate Elaine’s
house because I was betting on
Peters being around there. It
was going to take time. I ask
Henry where the street is and
they happen to find I’ve shot
through and Keough asks ques-
tions he’ll jump on to it pretty
fast, because of that mind of
his. I ask in that room where
the street is and those cops hear
me they got something. Because
in about half an hour or 3o that
cop will start thinking x and he’ll
get restless and something will
start pricking him way down in
his mind. He’ll try to drive it
out, but it’ll hang on. Because
both them cops should have
been patrolling, or guarding
some point, watching for Peters,
and it’s going to worry them
about me seeing them in that
room. So presently they scheme
up a alibi of some sort, like
saying they went in there on a
hunch Peters might be there or
something, and when they got
thaT ready they’ll call up the
police-station and tip them off,
and next thing there’ll be a cop
inside the hospital telling the
night-nurse he wants to check
on me.
They do that they’ll find I
shot through and get word to
Keough, and when I don’t show
he’ll make a guess I got some-
thing takes me looking for
Kathy and Peters. But because
I don’t mention • Silvermine-
street to Henry or anybody in
that room he’ll maybe no more
think of me and Elaine’s house
than he does of Peters and
Elaine’s house. He starts a hunt
for me, but he don’t know where
to start, and I got that much
time to see if my hunch is right.
So I’m a couple of blocks
. away from the main street,
somewhere above the river,
keeping in the dark, and if I
want to get to Elaine’s • house
quick I got to locate it quick.
It’s maybe a quarter to ten now,
and the cold getting worse. I
got this bottle of rum in my
coat, but I don’t want any more
rum because you keep nipping
{Continued on page 30)


The Chisel with
a Difference!
Y can see and feel the difference in a Titan Wood Chisel
The gleaming, forged tool steel blade with its promise
of superb edge-holding qualities, the handsome hardwood
handle, the inherent strength and balance of a fine
chisel , . . these are qualities that come only from the
best in materials and workmanship.
And you know you are getting the best, because
every Titan Chisel is guaranteed against defects
in workmanship and materials. Only ' Titan
Chisels carry this guarantee proof of their
outstanding quality and value.
Furthermore, they are more economical.
Titan Chisels cost no more, and their
keen, long-lasting cutting edges, strength
and balance help you do a better job
quicker.
Strength
to Spare
a
You save every way with Titan
Chisels . . . guaranteed, fine,
forged tools made .by Aus-
tralians for Australians.
Write today to Dept . B,
P,O . Box 86A, Melbourne ,
for your free illustrated
Titan Catalogue,
Forged from
B.H.P. Steel
A i Every Titan Chisel blade
is genuinely forged tool
steel, processed from
B.H.P. special steel.
Expertly hardened and tempered
blades with a Rockwell C Scale
hardness rating of 59-61, ensur-
ing a keen, fracture-resisting
edge.
tAt Handles of specially selected and
seasoned hardwood, finished with three
coats of clear lacquer.
'it Strengthening and protective ferrules of bright
drawn seamless steel tube.
'jAr Constant control of every manufacturing stage and
rigid factory tests guarantee the quality and work-
manship of your Titan Chisel, .
Every Titan Chisel is GUA.MtA.I¥TEEMB
and trail be replaced free if fa and
faulty in material or workmanship
s
See the full range
% ■ »
o/ Titan Chisels at your hardware store
MADE AT HOBART, TASMANIA, BY THE TITAN MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD.


NEED A WIFE
by GEOFF BINGHAM
Bertie curtis was
very thoughtful following
the visit of the dairy-
inspector. In his own
quiet way he had secretly
dreaded the coming of the
official, and because he habitu-
ally prayed to God about the
most intimate details of his day’s
work, he had often prayed about
the inspector, petitioning God to
give him at least some warning
about that man’s coming.
Take the bails for example;
Bertie had promised himself that,
being warned of God regarding
the inspector’s visit, he would
immediately haul down, bag by
bag, the ton of pollard and
linseed-meal stacked in the
fourth bail. Then he would
remove the feed-drums from the
second bail, and the surplus of-
feed-sacks he was reserving for
the wheat season when bags
were at a premium. It would
take some doing, hut Bertie had
promised himself he would
manage it, even if it meant later
restacking the feed in its rightful
bail, the and feed-sacks
in theirs.
But the inspector had come,
with no warning except that his
small roadster had pulled up
outside, and he had uncurled
himself from the driving seat,
unfolded himself from behind
the wheel. True, he had waited
a moment to stretch, to reach his
lank form towards the sky, after
which he had advanced purpose-
fully towards the Curtis house.
Bertie, being a bachelor, had his
house no tidier than the bails.
To tell the truth Bertie had feed
stacked in the house, too, his
father’s old room taking most
of it, with the daily ration for
the pigs in the store-room, as
well the pigs knew.
So it was Mr. Kissop found
Bertie, petrified almost, amongst
his feed.
“Ah there, Mr. Curtis,” he
said heartily, knowing for sure
that he had the law on his side,
and undoubtedly, on the other
side, a lawbreaker. “Nice day,
isn’t it?”
“Lovely,” Bertie told him
earnestly. If Bertie had been
able to roll his eyes they would
have rolled with apprehension,
Ted Kissop rubbed his hands
together. Long, capable hands
they were, the hallmark of
character, as Bertie acutely
observed. “Just thought we‘d
pop down and look things over,”
said Mr. Kissop, using a rather
jovial royal plural.
“Ha,” said Bertie, trying to
enter into the inspector’s delight.
“Yes, of course, ha!”
“H’m,” said Mr. Kissop
absently. He loved the trips
around to the farms. He had
a great respect for cow-cockies
and their acumen, though rather
less for their cleanliness. But
what pleased him most was the
sheer delight of travelling at the
Government’s expense, along
endless stretches of road, turn-
ing into nooks and crannies of
farm-life, and being at no dis-
advantage, either.
“Things are a bit anyhow,”
said Bertie slowly. Then, with
a rush, “What with the rain you
know, and one thing and
another.”
“Ah, yes,” said Mr. Kissop
kindly, as though this were the
first time he had heard such a
thing, and because of that it
contained something interest-
ing. “Certainly has been wet,
Mr. Curtis.”
“Besides,” Bertie told him
eagerly, “I’ve just had twins.”
Mr. Kissop seemed to see
nothing surprising in this, but
he was delighted. “Different
sexes, Mjr. Curtis?”
“Two heifers,” said Bertie
proudly.
“Fine,” said Mr. Kissop, “I
can’t remember many cases of
the same sex. You’re a lucky
man.”
X>ERTIE stared at the ground.
Then he said, without much
enthusiasm, “Well, I suppose
you’ll be wanting to see the
bails and dairy.”
“Ah, yes,” said Mr. Kissop, as
though that suggestion was a
surprising one.
“If you’d like a cup of
tea . . . ” suggested Bertie.
“A cup of tea,” repeated the
inspector; and Bertie’s hopes
rose a trifle. He regretted,
mildly, and for the first time that
he was a teetotaller. Probably
Mr. Kissop, being a jovial man,
was not.
Ted Kissop’s eyebrows shot
upwards when he entered the
kitchen. There were fifteen cats
inhabiting the chairs, the table
and various half-empty sacks of
feed. Bertie, noting the surprise,'
hastened to explain,
“I keep that feed for the
fowls,” he said proudly. “That
bag there’s for the black chooks,
and that over there for the
Rhode Islands, and the other for
the Leghorns. Keep a check on
what they eat, and so I know
my profits.”
“Ah,” said the inspector
doubtfully. “A man with a
system, eh, Mr. Curtis?”
“In here,” said Bertie, taking
him into the store-room, “are
the bags for the pigs. They have
a bag each.”
“But you don’t feed them in
here,” said Mr. Kissop, shocked.
“Oh* no,” said Bertie; “not
on your life. But they try to get
in, the little coots. I’ve caught
’em more than once at the wrong
bags.”
Mr. Kissop allowed his gaze
to fall lightly upon the fowls, of
varied colors, pecking their way
along the hallway.. Bertie
sighted them also, and divining
that this was no place for fowls,
or not today, anyway, rushed at
them, spreading his arms.
“Sh-hoo!” he said, his voice
cracking as he endeavored,
vainly, to register indignation.
It was at this point Mr.
Kissop declined tea. No, he was
firm about it. There were other
farms to bfe seen, as Bertie well
knew. Bertie later considered
that it was at this point that he
had lost any advantage he might
have had over the tall inspector.
Mr. Kissop shook his head
slowly when he surveyed the
feed in the fourth bail. He
pointed that out to Bertie, who
quickly countered the suggestion
with his fifteen cats “and some
4o come.” Mr. Kissop nodded
doubtfully, and proceeded to the
third bail, where he peered into
feed-drums. ,He shook his head
even more doubtfully. At the
second bail he almost wept.
There were a litter of machine-
parts, tools, grease and oil. “I
see,”, he observed sadly, “that
you use only one bail, Mr.
Curtis.”
“Only one,” said Bertie,
brightening. “They know just
when they’ve got to come in,
Inspector, and come in they do.
Saves a lot of time.” Bertie
shook his head and said “I don’t
know why some go to all the
trouble of bailing them up in
different bails.”
Mr. Kissop continued to look
sad. “No, I suppose you don’t,
Mr. Curtis,” was all he said.
It was true that the yards were
spotlessly clean, cobbled and
without manure, Bertie’s large
vegetable-garden received its
portion daily, and so Mr.
Kissop was able to breathe
freely on that score. But the
dairy itself cancelled those few
good marks. It was littered, toor,
with harness and pieces of metal-
scrap, worn-out horseshoes,
rusty cans and —the gods forgive
Mr. Curtis —drums of sour
skim! Mr. Kissop had ceased
shaking his head. He was
numbed it seemed and now
expected anything.
“Those pigs you have, Mr.
Curtis,” he said suddenly,
“where are they?”
“Oh, way out there,” said
Bertie, pointing towards the
furthest reaches of his farm.
“Ah,” said Mr. Kissop. He
seemed to breathe more freely.
Then it was he said the amaz-
ing words, the sentence which,
then and when he had departed,
burned and continued to burn
deeply into the mind of the
bachelor-dairyman.
“What you need, Mr, Curtis,”
he had said, “is to get yourself a
wife.”
OERTIE had looked at him in
amazement. He had not
thought •to protest, to question
indignantly, to other than look
horrified, “A wife’d fix every-
thing for you,” the inspector had
added knowingly.
Only one comfort remained to
him, and it was that the inspector
had let him off with a warning.
“You’d better start cleaning
things up, Mr. Curtis,” he had
said. Then his gaze had dropped
to the ground as he sighted
something familiar,
“The pigs aren’t always out
there, are they?” he asked.
Bertie, beaaus© he Was too
stunned for words, too dumb-
founded, and because, anyway,
the evidence was against him,
could only shake his head in
miserable acquiescence.
The truth was that Mr. Curtis
was afraid. He had thought
about Ted Kissop’s suggestion,
and there was no way of getting
around it. More, he found the
thought of marriage was not at
all repugnant. He could not
even hate the thought of a
woman in his house. It actually
appealed to him.
Yet, also, he was alarmed for
his freedom, the carelessness of
doing just as he liked, when he
liked. To come in when he
wished and make a cup of tea, to
forget a meal now and then, to
jump into the truck and go
down to the sales, and when the
sales were finished to stay
seated upon the rails and discuss
cows, crops and the infamy of
the Governments. So Bertie
shook his head, and tried to think
badly of Mr. Kissop, who had
thrown a bomb of confusion
into his life.
Much in this frame of mind
Mr. Curtis wandered towards the
southern boundary of his farm.
The impulse was unconscious,
but it was undoubtedly a long-
ing for company. There, where
his property converged upon the
road and railway-line, was the
Amnigs’ house tucked into that
last small triangle, and fenced
around with palings. Aaron
Amnig, his wife and .sixteen
children lived in that house, and
many were the times Bertie had
shaken his head /n wonderment.
Now his slow progression to-
wards that mass of humanity
must have been brought on a
loneliness hitherto unnoticed by
him, but lately so callously
revealed 'by the inspector.
Aaron’s forge was burning, for
a thin whisp of blue smoke
ascended into the early evening.
From the. kitchen chimney
spiralled a thicker plume of
smoke. The Amnig meal —no
mean affair —was in course of
preparation. Mr. Curtis shook
his head sadly. He longed for
the warmth of a fireside. For
himself he was heartily weary of
sausages, boiled, fried or
poached eggs, and even more
tired of the preparation it
entailed, the cleaning-up so often
required.
■pERHAPS because the evening
had a slight chill to it
already, the Amnig children were
not to be seen; that was, apart
from Dora. She sat, her well-
shaped legs dangling over the
palings fronting the railway-
lines. When she saw Bertie
Curtis she waved carelessly.
“If you’re looking for your
red bull, Bertie,” she said, “he’s
over in them turpentines.”
“Ah,” said Bertie, “in the
turpentines, is he?” He felt
strangely uncomfortable in the
presence of Dora, and for the
first time he noticed her eyes
were brown; large, too, and that
they gleamed as they observed
him. Her cheeks were red,
perhaps from the cold, but her
nose was unblemished, firm and
smooth, and slightly upturned,
so that it might have been called
pert. Mr. Curtis found himself
screwing about to catch a glimpse
of that little beauty. Within he
was vaguely alarmed.
But Miss Amnig saw nothing
wrong with her neighbor Bertie.
“What do you sit here for?”
Bertie asked suddenly.
“Oh, nothing,” said Miss
Amnig, and her nose, if possible,
tilted higher. It was no concern,
of Bertie’s if she wished to watch
the fettlers on their way home.
She loved the prattling rattle of
their trikes, and the rhythmic rise
and fall of the handles, and even
more the carelessness of the men
as they passed. A wave or a
nod, and sometimes a bold stare,
something she was always able
to match.
Then, last week, Harry
Crowther had promised her a
pair of pigeons, a pigeon pair.
“I’m getting a pair of
pigeons,” she said suddenly.
“Pigeons,” said Bertie. For
some unknown reason his heart
contracted. He hated and loved
the sensation. It was new. His
farm and all its importance sud-
denly shrank also, dwindled to
nothingness beside the richness
of the girl on the fence. He
noticed, with downcast eyes, that
she was well formed, matured,
capable and certainly a good
worker.
“Fantails,” said Miss Amnig,
and her eyes became dreamy. It
was not that she liked fantails a
great deal, nor that she was
madly in love with Harry
Crowther yet, anyway but
she knew the sight of two white
fantails would tear at her
defences, and before she knew
what was happening Harry
would be taking her to dances
and things.
Bertie desired to ask where
the pigeons were coming from,
but at that moment the trikes
came into view, and Miss Amnig
became demure, her eyes gently
upon the machines as they
neared, her chin cupped into her
hands.
They were come, they were
gone, and in that time much had
happened. The men had shouted
“Hi there, Dora. Ho there,
Bertie!” and had whizzed past.
One young fellow had shouted
“Half your luck, Bertie,” and
there had been a roar from the
others.
When they had gone, Dora’s
cheeks were aflame. “Well, of
all their hide!” she said. She
stared at Bertie, and as she stared
the crimson mounted, “They
reckoned you were doing a line
with me,” she said indignantly,
Bertie nodded. The experi-
ence had pleased him. “Wait till
I get that Harry Crowther,” she
said, her capable jaws clenching.
“Harry was giving you the
pigeons, eh?” asked Bertie.
Dora seemed unable to speak.
Then she said “That’s what he
thinks.”
“Ah, yes,” said Bertie.
Suddenly Dora said “It’s get-
ting late now, Bertie. You’ll be
going back for your tea, eh, now
you’ve found the bull?”
“Now I’ve found the bull,”
said Bertie, and his voice
sounded sad.
“Well, I reckon,” said Miss
Amnig confidentially, “that you
ought to stay for tea. One more
won’t make much difference.”
“No, I suppose not,” said
Bertie, scarcely realising what
he was saying.
. But throughout the meal Mr.
Curtis said very little. He
seemed to be pondering some-
thing, and all who knew Bertie
knew also that he was a man
with one thought at a time. A
fact which had not gone
unnoticed by Mr. Kissop, who,
for all his busyness and desire
for cleanliness, was no man’s
fool.
IV e XT morning Dora sat on
1 * the fence as was her custom,
and the following evening also,
but it was not to wave to Harry
Crowther. She gave him a cold
stare, much to that young man’s
amusement. “I’d hate to be
hitched to that dame,” he told
his fellow-fettlers when they
were well out of hearing range.
One had to shout to be heard
above the noise of the trikes.
“Got some go in her all right,”
someone agreed.
“Like ’em with go in ’em,”
said another.
“I’m young yet,” said Harry
Crowther.
And Mr, Curtis had not cared
to search out his bull,, although
each evening it gathered the
heifers into the turpentine
clumps. No, Dora had seen
Bertie pile his utility with empty
feed-sacks and sail away merrily
towards Coolbucca. It had not
pleased her much. It was as
though she had met Bertie for
the first time, and in some way
she wished to get her own back
for the embarrassment to which
he had subjected her before the
fettlers. Of course it was all his
fault. Bertie Curtis, indeed. She
often stared across to his farm,
wondering about the house and
how he lived, and whatever that
man did on his own.
Sunday morning it was when
Bertie came looking for his bull,
but then it was not his bull. It
was a bright Bertie this mprn-
ing, and a calm one.
“Hi there, Dora,” he said.
Dora glanced around to see
whether or not she was noticed
by any of the family. She was,
but she dropped from the fence
and advanced on Mr. Curtis.
“Now look here, Bertie Curtis,”
she said.
“Thought you might like to
have a look at my place,” he told
her. “Never been there, have
you?”
“\Vell, what do you know)
about thaf?” she demanded.
Bertie grinned. “I’ve got
something to show you,” he said.
“It won’t take ’you a minute.”
Dora stared at Bertie as
though this were a new Bertie
she was seeing. But it was the
same old Bertie, a trifle less shy,
a trifle cleaner in his clothes, hut
as stolid and determined as ever.
“Don’t suppose it can hurt,” she
said airily. “And you can’t eat
me,” she added haughtily.
“I’ve cleaned the dairy up
something wonderful,” Bertie
told her as they tramped across
the pasture. “Ted Kissop was
out the other day and he went
me hot.”
Proudly he showed her the
bails. True, the feed was still
there, but with fifteen cats there
was still a counter to any objec-
tion by the inspector. It was the
{Continued on page 35)


No
i
45/
No
28/4
For
gift
for
r
self
Choose from fhe big, brightly coloured range
of Onofo pens, ball pens, pencils or sets.
Onoto
Peni and
Pens from 25/- to 140/-, Sets from 45/- to £ll
Ball Pen, 17/6
Thomas Do La Rue & Co. Ltd., Lendoa
Distributors: NORMAN BAKER AND LONGHURST PTY. LTD., Sydney & Melbourne
TTETITiT
Missing Friend
GEORGE—WouId ALBERT GEORGE.
REGINALD GEORGE and ALMA DORO-
THY GEORGE, children of William
Robert George and Hannah George nee
Taylor, or anyone knowing their where-
abouts, please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street,
Sydney, Room 205, re Estate of James
Taylor.
til
Established 18US in Reign of
George 111,
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
NJ3.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 C&Slins Street, Melbourne.
r
SPORTING NOTIONS
Raconteur, favorite for the
A.J.C. Villiers Stakes, to be run
at Randwick on Saturday week,
will have his final trial at Rose-
hill this coming Saturday. The
Western Australian champion
had an easy win at Randwick >a
couple of Saturdays back and
has gone along well on the track
Since.
In the racing at Rosehill last
Saturday Bronze Peak’s run-
away win in the Festival Handi-
cap brought him right into
prominence for the Villiers,
while Plato lost for the
mile. Plato’s performance was
much below expectations.
Spearby is now better fancied
than he had been.
Bronze Peak, who won the
Rosehill Festival Handicap with
something in hand in the fast
time of 1.24|, was regarded a
few months ago as unfit for
further racing. He was sold for
a modest sum, as it was con-
sidered his future location would
be at a country stud. However,
trouble in his forelegs im-
proved rapidly and he became
sound enough again for racing,
and since being taken over by
trainer J. Denham he has won
twice from his last three starts.
He has thrived so much and
looks so well that he is ex-
pected by his new connections
to win the Villiers, in which
Bill Cook may be. his rider.
Cook won on him at Warwick
Farm, but went to Perth last
week and is not expected back
until next week. George Moore
had the winning mount last'
Saturday.
At Warwick Farm on Nov-
ember 21 favorite Cymbidiura
was an unlucky third to Two
Birdies and Captain Theo after
being forced to cover a lot of
extra ground in the final stages.
Cymbidium was next produced
last Saturday in the Rosehill
Handicap, and once again was
made a warm favorite. She
atoned for her previous defeat
and firmed in Summer Cup
wagering. The five-year-old
mare won Tattersall’s Club Cup
(li mile) last summer with 7.3,
and has since won at Randwicfc
and Rosehill. With only 7.4 in
the Summer Cup on Boxing
Day she seems handily placed.
Neville Sellwood, who rode her
with patience and judgment on
Saturday, won’t be able to take
the mount at 7.4,. but connec-
tions no doubt will secure a
suitable horseman at that
poundage.
New Zealand-owned and
-bred Radiant Queen was a
surprise result so far as the pub-
lic was concerned when she led
most of the way in the Rosehill
Two-year-old Maiden for fillies.
She is raced by Sir James and
J. C. Fletcher, thoroughbred-
breeders of Alton Lodge, Te
Kauwhata. (N.Z.), who fre-
quently have a horse in training
in Sydney. Frank Dalton pre-
pares Radiant Queen ; she is by
Gold Nib (imp.) from Preste, a
mare by Lang Bian (imp.) from
Prestige by Limond (imp.)
Preste is a half-sister to Peerless 1
and is closely related to
Honour (N.Z. Derby), Channel
Rise (A.J.C. Derby), and to the
speedy Cultured and Subdued,
a smart New Zealander.
Radiant Queen won her Rose-
hill race well, but she was
lucky ; runner-up and hot favor-
ite Happy Harvest was one of
the best things beaten in a two-
year-old race in years. She
missed the start badly, ran up
to the leaders, and then was
beaten less than half a length.
Happy Harvest, an 875gns.
yearling, is from a daughter of
a sister to the brilliant Gloam-
ing. She can be expected to
soon atone for her initial ill-
luck.
The racing public certainly is
fickle, and when it’s peeved
leading horsemen get as much
roasting as. the lesser-lights.
Thus, George Moore was
heckled for his defeat on Happy
Harvest in the Rosehill race, but
the owners of the filly had
feared she wouldn’t fare well at
the starting-gates, and that was
where she lost the race. Four
races later, when Moore can-
tered in on Bronze Peak in the
main event of the day, the
Festival Handicap, he was
roundly cheered by the big
crowd and many who had
hooted earlier called, “Good on
you, George! ” Moore, like
most seasoned horsemdn, was 1
unperturbed by either the hoot-
. ing or the cheering. He knew
his first mount would haye won
easily had she jumped away
with her opponents in the two-
year-old event.
Dr. C. G. McLoughlin,
owner of Charente, winner of
the Rosehill Two-year-old
Maiden for colts and geldings, is
a son of Charlie McLoughlin,
former Queensland trainer who
has been established several
years in Sydney and who pre-
pares the colt at Randwick,
Charente is bred for speed, as
he is a half-brother to Karendi,
a brilliant performer over sprint
distances. Charente is by Gene-
tout (imp.) from- Belle Fille by
Beau Pere from Merry Smile
by Chatham. Merry Smile, who
was trained at Rosehill for her
races, was a particularly smart
“Prettiest damn' fight I ever see.”
mare, and won, among other
events, the AJ.C. Gimcrack
Stakes. She also was successful
at Flemington. Belle Fille was a
winner o# minor events at Rose-
hill and Newcastle.
Racegoers can be the poorer
through prejudices. Lucky
Stride, runaway winner of the
Second Parramatta Graduation
Stakes, drew 24 at the barrier,
.the extreme outside, and for
that reason alone many who
would have backed him well
from a more favorable draw
stood off and saw him canter in
in record time for the race,
1.1 If, only a quarter of a second
outside the track’s best, held
jointly by Carioca and English
Standard. Lucky Stride, always
a brilliant galloper, had run
second at Randwick in October
to Nagpuni in I.I H for the six
furlongs, and in Brisbane had
been narrowly downed in two
open contests, each time by
Beau Falcon, Two days before
Saturday’s contest he had run
half a mile at Rosehill in 50
secs. Trainer Jack Morgan in-
tends to send the brilliant per-
former for a spell, despite his
dashing success. Lucky Stride’s
sire, Temeraire, knew how to
put his feet to the ground.
Races restricted to appren-
tices with an allowance-claim
of 71b. may or may not be in
the best interests of the young
horsemen, but the scheme is
being encouraged by the S.T.C.
In the opinion of many keen
turfmen the Sellwoods and the
Cooks of tomorrow best improve
their riding knowledge when
competing against older and ex-
perienced jockeys, most of whom
give advice, even during a race,
to help the younger fry. When
these restricted events are pro-
grammed there is generally
one jockey who knows more
about riding winners than his
opponents. This happened at
Rosehill, when the. successful
W. Toohey handed out a lesson
in horsemanship to his rivals
when scoring on the well-backed
Roman Hero. Just because
Toohey was in the saddle many
supported the Royal Step geld-
ing, whose form had beep
modest, but who had earlier in
the week beaten Lord Forrest in
a Randwick track-trial.
Crack Melbourne horseman
Bill Williamson was again in
fine form at Flemington, where
he won half the programme of
six events. His winning mounts
were Glen Gala, 7 to 4 on; Sun
Salute, 4 to 1 ; and Desert
Warrior, 5 to 4.
The Port Adelaide Cup, a
£5OOO event, will be run over the
unusual distance of one mile
and seven furlongs On December
28. In recent years it has been
won by smart stayers in Free
Kick, Prince o’ Fairies, Sanctus
and Rainbird, Saint Warden
won it in successive years, 1943
and 1944. Planetarium, runner-
up to Sun Salute in the Flem-
ington Noble Park Handicap
(H mile) on Saturday, is to be
set for the Port Cup. Sun
Salute, winner of two races
from his last four starts, is raced
by Dr. J. G. Sheahan, who has
had a long association with rac-
ing in Victoria.
Piping Time (imp.), a good
performer in England and son
of Mid-Day Sun, is sire of two-
year-old Glen Gala, who started
at 7 to 4 on and won the Clay-
ton Stakes at Flemington. Glen
Gala had twice finished second
before’ winning at V.R.C. head-
quarters, and on his second to
Spritsail at Caulfield looked a
safe bet for last Saturday’s
sprint. The colt won easily.
His dam, Air Song, is a Mar-
conigram (imp.) mare from La
Chanteuse by Crowdennis (imp.).
Glen Gala was the tenth two-
year-old winner from F. W.
Hoysted’s stables this season ; all
have been ridden* by Bill Wil-
liamson.
* * *
Lewis Hoad, mainly with his
big service and strong volleying,
won his third title this year—the
Victorian, at Kooyong, last Satur-.
day. As in Sydney, his opponent
in the final was his tennis-“twin”
Ken Rosewall, and game and re-
sult were much the same, victory
for Hoad in four sets, 8-6, 9-7,
3-6, 6-3. (In Sydney Hoad had
taken 10 more games to win.)
This was his sixth successive
triumph over Rosewall.
Last year Rosewall and Hoad
reached the Victorian doubles-
final —to go down in four sets to
Sedgman-McGregor. This year
they again reached the final,
and again went down in four
sets, to Rose-Hartwig, 3-6, 6-1,
6-4, 6-4. Rose and Hartwig,
holders of the U.S. title, had
beaten Rosewall and Hoad in
Queensland. Rosewall’s ■ fairly
poor service being their main
weakness. Rose and Hartwig’s
win puts them well in the running
to be the Cup doubles team. In.
Sydney they were unimpressive
in going down to the Seixas-
Trabert combination, but this
time they beat the Americans
comfortably.
In Perth the Belgians white-
washed India, and now meet the
U.S, in the second inter-zone
final in Brisbane on Dec. 17, 18
and 19.
* * *
There were several good
efforts in the N.S.W.-v.-S.A.
Shield match at Adelaide (won
outright by N.S.W. with only
a few minutes to spare). For
N.S.W., a Morris century, Craig's
93 after his run of outs, a good
double by Miller (72 and 58
rt.o.) and a dashing innings by
De Courcy, one of the most
entertaining of batsmen when he
gets going; he got most of the
runs N.S.W. needed in its race
against the clock.
For S.A., Hole made a cen-
tury, Favell batted brightly and
there was consistency from skip-
per Ridings, by no means a star
but usually good for a respect-
able score. Bowling honors
went to spinners—Roxby, play-
ing his first Shield game, 5-84
in S.A.’s first innings, and Burke,
primarily a batsman, 6-60 in the
second. For S.A., Dansie, also
primarily a batsman, had the
best figures (4-53).
Les Favell, originally from
St. George (Sydney) club, is
pressing a claim to be Arthur
Morris’s partner in the next Test
series. After 77 in Perth, he
made 50 and 88 against N.S.W.
Fa'veli came into Shield cricket
with a rush—in his first Shield
game, against N.S.W. in 1951-52,
he made 86 (when there were
only two other double-figure
scorers) and 164. Then he
failed, getting a remarkable
series of ones—l, 1,1, 24, 9
and 1 in Shield games, and,
against West Indies, 0 and 4.
Left out at the beginning of last
season, he came back to make
scores of 105, 98, 81 and
(against S’Africa) 67.
N.S.W. this year is fielding
a very strong side; all of those
who played in Adelaide deserve
their places. Yet one will surely
have to go to make room for
Alan Davidson, who will be
available for N.S.W.’s next game
(v. Vic, in Melbourne, Dec. 26-
30). Before then Queensland
goes on its southern tour, and
will have met S.A. and Vic.


A most versatile traffic-cop; a fascinating little statuette; a Sister's
role on a Digger hospital train
Odd Encounters
"DICK H"
ABOUT a year ago, in the
course of a hitchhiking
trip around Europe, I
found myself one after-
noon in Rome, picking my way
through the babbling mob in the
Piazza Fiume.
I had just arrived from
Florence, and I was looking for
the city’s youth hostel which I
knew was in one of the streets
running off the piazza. Not
being able to speak Italian very
well, I was shy of asking the
help of any pedestrian and thus
causing fevers of embarrassment
and incomprehension on both
sides, so I was just ambling from
street to street, hoping somehow
to find the hostel for myself
before nightfall.
After an unsuccessful hour of
this I stopped at a corner and
gave myself over to watching the
antics of the tall, white-helmeted,
blue-uniformed traffic-cop on his
dais in the centre of the piazza.
As the peak-hour grew to its
climax he was- a show in him-
self. He was the central figure
in a chaos of vehicles and
pedestrians: the hero of the
great transport drama. He leapt
dramatically from this side of
the dais to the other, trying to
halt the streams of cars with
histrionic gestures which, if they
noticed them at all, the motorists
scarcely heeded.
Before setting a file of cars in
motion the cop would pause,
then leap up and throw his arms
wide and blast his whistle, like
a football-referee at full-time.
When things went well he re-
laxed for a moment, beaming
his approval. He pointed an
accusing finger and bellowed
abuse at ’ defaulters. Like his
compatriot, Toscanini, he
coaxed, urged, cajoled and
implored for harmony.
Later I found that all the
Roman traffic-cops carry on like
that. Meantime, this hard-
fought battle between cop and
motorist, which seems to be
taken for granted, was quite a
shock to one coming from a
country where the “long arm”
puts up with no nonsense.
At last, the peak-hour over,
my cop left his dais and stood
a few yards from me, wiping
the sweat from his face and from
inside his helmet.
Here, I thought* was the man
to ask about the hostel —a man
who’d be used to appalling
accents, who wouldn’t be at a
loss anywhere.
“Excusa,” I ventured. “Er.
L’Albergo . . er ...ah . . .
de11a...”
He looked hard at me for a
moment, taking in my rucksack,
with the Australian flag I had
sewn on to stir the curiosity of
motorists.
“Well, spare me days!” he
said in tones as Australian as a
six-o’clock rush. “Another
bloody kangarpo! They’re all
over the country.”
I was almost flattened. I
looked hard at him. He had
dark, oily skin and a toothbrush
mo.; and in the uniform he’d
have passed for an Italian any-
where.
“Dick H., from Sydney,” he
said, and we pumped arms,
I was still at a loss for a
remark, but it didn’t matter: he
was firing off questions like
bundles of crackers. Who won
tfie last Rugby League comp.?
Or are you from Sydney? You
are? Which Government was
in? Was the Eastern Suburbs
railway finished yet? And so on.
By the time I had answered
them all I had recovered myself
sufficiently to ask for a bit of
information about himself. I
particularly wanted to know how
he managed to speak Italian well
enough to get into the Police
Force there.
He said he had come to
Europe after taking his degree
in Arts in 1948. “I’d done
honors French,” he went on,
“so I didn’t have much trouble
’getting work in Paris. I worked
in an office and gave a few
English lessons. After a year
I managed to join the French
police force on the strength of
speaking two languages. You see,
they have, a special force operat-
ing on the Riviera to protect tour-
ists from the spivs and their own
inclinations, and since most of the
tourists are Yanks, it’s handy to
have cops who speak English.”
After 18 months he had re-
signed. He had tired of the
Riviera and wanted to see Italy.
It seemed that he had the gift
of many • tongues, for in six
months,, he had learned Italian
well enough to join the Rome
force on the strength, of his
special experience in France.
“But how did you manage to
stay alive during the six
months?” I asked.
“The old pick-and-shovel,” he
said. “On the road to Civita-
vecchia.”
“And you don’t have to be
a citizen of France or Italy be-
fore you can join the Police
Force?”
“Not if you speak English,
French and Italian,” he grinned
with excusable pride.
Then I remembered his antics
out there on the dais. I made a
remark about them-
He shrugged. “When in
Rome,”, he said. “And, besides,
I like the idea of tussling with
the drivers. It makes things
interesting. Relieves the
monotony. That’s what I like
about the Latin countries. Any-
thing that has to be done —eat-
ing, drinking, policing—they
make it interesting. They don’t
have to fry—it’s just part of the
temperament.”
He went on for some time in
praise of French and Italian
ways of life as he knew them.
He was very enthusiastic. So I
asked whether there was any
Latin blood in his family.
No. He was a third-genera-
tion Australian. And he hoped
tq be coming back here as soon
as his “holiday” was satisfac-
torily ended.
And what had to happen be-
fore the label “satisfactory”
could be affixed?
Oh, nothing much. He was
determined, however, to spend
at least a year in Spain. As a
policeman? No, he didn’t think
that would be possible under
Franco ; but he daredsay he’d
be able to learn Spanish and get
an interpreting job with Cook’s,
or somebody. And then there
was Greece. He had read The
Colossus of Maroussi; he
wanted to see all the places
Henry Miller raves about. That
would take about a year, too,
he thought.
And afterwards? Well, he’d
probably come home and write
a book about it.
Finally he directed me to the
hostel and we shook hands. I
wanted to buy him a meal or at
least a few drinks, but he de-
clined. Evidently the novelty of
the encounter was all on my
side ; at any time in the summer
he could meet Australians
around Rome if he wanted to.
However, in a couple of
years’ time we might expect to
read a travel-book which will
make Dust on My Shoes look
like a run-of-the-mill guide-
book.
JOHN ABERNETHY.
LA JONGLEUSE
I T was late summer in 1916
| when, with guns booming
along the Somme, the R.S.M.
and I were ordered to Rouen
on duty. We boarded a train at
Etaples late one night with
orders to change at Abbeville,
but with evil intent went to sleep
and finally awakened to find our-
selves clicking along to Paris.
The R.S.M. was an old hand,
and upon reaching Paris next
morning said “Lea?e it to me,”
as we strolled along the plat-
form towards a group of British
military police standing guard at
the exit of Gare du Nord. At
that time no one under the rank
of a field-officer was permitted
in Paris, and probably our
Aussie slouch - hats were the
“LA JONGLEUSE.”
first to appear in the gay city.
One of the M.P.’s looked at
our movement order and
barked: “This is for Rouen!
And you’re in Paris! What’s
the game?”
The R.S.M., a consummate
actor, affected an air of be-
wilderment; “Paris!” he ex-
claimed. “But we want to go to
Rouen. Must have missed the
bus somewhere! ”
The policeman looked both
incredulous and suspicious, but
led us out of the station to a
waiting tram. “You’d better get
along to Gare St.-Lazare, or
you’ll get into trouble ; this tram
will take you there,” and, giv-
ing instructions to the con-
ductress, he turned abruptly
from us with a shrug of annoy-
ance.
We arrived at, the Gare St.-
Lazare., and, finding a train did
not leave for Rouen for some
hours, we hailed a taxi and went
careering around the city. At
last, after a peep into Le Prin-
temps, the great department-
store, where we scurried behind
counters when some British staff-
officers were sighted, we re-
treated to the railway-station
and slept through the journey
to Rouen.
With our mission completed
after a few days, we approached
the Railway Transport Officer
for endorsement of our return
journey. He was a pleasant fel-
low, so cheerful that we put the
hard word on him for per-
mission to return via Paris ; sup-
pressing the fact that we had
already made a brief, unauthor-
ised visit there. It was a sorrow-
ful tale, “a couple of blokes
from 12,000 miles away who had
never seen Paris,” and 'so on.
The R.T.O. was most under-
standing and sympathetic and,
a warning not to get in o
an Y Rouble, stamped our order
‘ v * a ans . and away we went,
Memories of those few worth-
while days were somewhat
dimmed until recently, w en,
during a domestic move, La
Jongleuse came to light after
years of disappearance. As I
looked atthe little gilt statue i
a h^ hack to me
The R.S.M. and I had been
racm g from one point of interest
another, and were wandering
about Montparnasse, tired an
bewildered by the rush of places
and events. Turning off the
Boulevard St. Germain into an
ancient street, we stopped before
a tiny jeweller s-shop in whose
window, with nothing
but a draped back-
ground of black velvet,
stood the little gilt
statue of “La Jon-
gleuse.”
I stared ' and stared,
and finally entered the
shop and by fortuitous
phrases learned the
price of the little figure.
It was 125 francs;
about £5 at that time
when the franc was 27
to the £l. But we were
on our last afternoon
and about broke. Fin-
ally, however, I induced
the jeweller to accept
a deposit, obtained a
receipt, and explained
that “La Jongleuse’’
would be collected some
time perhaps “A pres
la guerre
I left France for Aus-
tralia towards the end
of 1917, after arranging
with a Digger pal to
collect “La Jongleuse”
if he survived and was
lucky enough to get
Paris leave. Some years
passed, and one day the
Digger telephoned to say he was
home again after a long spell
of “bon military enjoyment” in
Europe, and asked me to dinner
with his family.
Jt was a grand reunion, but a
greater excitement awaited, for,
updn entering the dining-room,
I was amazed to see “La Jong-
leuse” in the centre of the
dining-room table. He told me
how he had collected her in
Paris in 1918. For three years
he had carried the little bronze
in his pack through almost every
country in Europe, with long
arguments and much difficulty
with Customs-officers at every
frontier. With typical Digger
nonchalance and generosity he
picked up “La Jongleuse” and
handed her to me, saying:
“Here, take her, I have en-
joyed her company for years.
She is yours as a gift.”
G. H. PATTERSON.
LEAPING LENA
A STATEMENT heard over
the air recently concern-
ing improvements in rail-
way transport in the
Northern Territory immediately
brought back a half-forgotten
year of my life spent on that
very railroad.
It was after the bombing of
Darwin, and another Sister and
myself lived a roving, mobile
life on “Leaping Lena,” the hos-
pital train, which had been con-
verted from cattle-trucks. Des-
pite the unreliable “iron horses”
which drew her, gasping and
grunting, on slippery rails or
careering down inclines at what
seemed breakneck speed, we
grew fond of this rattling con-
traption, which swayed its
uncertain way from Adelaide
River to the Katherine, evacuat-
ing sick soldiers.
To these boys we became
Mother Confessors, recipients of
private secrets and latest
furphies, the greatest gazers-on
of all time at photos of wives
and children!,
The train originally comprised
four carriages (three ward-cars
and one car set up as a kitchen),
paihted white, with a liberal addi-
tion of Red Crosses. The
carriages were joined by the
usual couplings and chains, and
hitched onto a goods-train. The
trip to the Katherine took hours
and hours, though not much
over 100 miles, and we made
the return journey twice a week.
Our train filled with sick
soldiers, ex-Adelaide River, we
had No. 1 priority, and it be-
came apparent quite soon that
Lena, with her cattle-truck
springs, was too rough for any-
thing more serious than skin
conditions, ears and plasters.
The patients were mostly very
patient on this dull, slow trip.
We tried to serve the meals
early, before the darkness came,
as it does suddenly in these
parts. Prepared in the kitchen-
car, the meals were mostly
bread-and-jam and tea, or that
great Army standby, M. & V.
The only illumination came
from the orderly’s lantern, or
from. Sister’s or mine, as we
swayed along giving the' mix-
tures or doing the treatment of
the patients in the bunks above
and below. There were no win-
dows, only 6in. apertures of fly-
wire running alongside the
bunks and a stable-type door on
one side only for loading and
offloading the patients. We used
to gaze out of this windowlike
door, and as the train was never
turned around, we saw only one
side of the country in all those
months of trekking.
We only went once to Darwin,
where Lena, in the station-yard,
was a fair target, car
was splintered and one of our
orderlies was hit and later died
of his wounds. We made two
extra trips to Birdum, which
place certainly took the palm
for flies, aridity and hard
water. In one of these trips we
evacuated a small American
hospital in the charge of a very
young m. 0., and, heavens, was,
that kid homesick!
Time of departure was always
hit-or-miss. Empty of patients
we had no priority at all, so it
was over the return trip that our
ingenuity was taxed almost to
the fullest in persuading the
railway staff that we would be
much better, off back at Adelaide
River, where we had our being
between trips. At times we got
away and returned in 24 hours,
and at times we did not. Then
we slept two nights in the
Katherine station-yard, or at
some other wayside spot, with
nothing but the local fauna and
flora to see for miles around.
On one of these compulsory
stops I saw a bower-bird’s nest
and two brolgas go into their
dance and dozens of owls on
the line, terrified at the feeble
lights of the engine.
I wonder if any other woman
ever drove that train, or if I am
the only one?
In time we got used to
the three blasts on the
whistle warning the guard
that the engine could no longer
hold the train as it gathered
speed, but we never got used
to the train running off the line.
I’ll guarantee that this will strike
fear in the heart of the most
intrepid traveller.
By the time Lena had in-
creased to seven cars get-
ting her back on the line took
anything up to 24 hours. First
the guard would have to shin
up the telephone-post and tap
the wires, and there we would
sit and await the arrival of the
gang. Mostly this seemed to
happen in the full heat of the
day, and at first we used to sit
and watch them get her back.
(Continued on page 30)


Canyon tell
‘big’ Scotch from a
‘small’ Scotch?
'ji&jfire ye
BELtS
&
•00% SCOTCH WHjSK'g
PISTILLED AND BLE*P fl '
D| stillers«»™ scor^
>H„ M PRODUCT O f
We don’t mean, of course, the
difference between a double and a
single. We mean the difference
between the ordinary run of
whiskies—and a masterpiece such
as Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky.
We of Bell’s are an independent
firm of distillers—have been since
1825 when we started.
The output of Bell’s is not huge.
But to those who know it. it is
very, very precious. At Bell’s
generation after generation have
handed on their skill; and this
coupled with the knowledge,
almost the intuition, of those
who make whisky ensures that
the barley, water and peat, aided
by the soft Highland air, go to
make a perfect whole. Try
Bell’s Old Scotch Whisky —and you
will acknowledge its magic
mastery
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND BLENDED
IN SCOTLAND
o£L/.
DISTILLERS perth SCOTLAND
ESTABLISHED 1825
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... t .., .. 2/-
Yearly Subscription.. ( .., 22/6
P E NS
100 YEARS OF GOOD WRITING
MABIE, TODD & CO. (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
J63B
Hn euijurino:
tofern
• •
of pobUitU
It is fashionable and sensible
bthis year to give gifts that are
practical. Definitely there are
few gifts more useful than a
Swan Pen and none that is more
gladly received.
Swan pens have a reputation for
quality and reliability that goes
a long way back. Today’s
models are worthy upholders of
this fine tradition.
There is a wide range of attractive
Swan models with nibs to suit every
style of writing.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
GERM-WARFARE "CONFESSIONS"
Cables have made everyone
familiar in general terms with
the Communist charges against
the U.S. of using germ-warfare
in Korea.
The other side of the story,
now being told in grim detail
overseas, has not so far been
given the same measure of
publicity.
The Communist “evidence”
has been based mainly on writ-
ten “confessions” signed by 25
or more captured American
airmen. Until some of these
p.-0.-w. were released there was
nothing to set against the “evi-
dence” except the American
official denials, though (as
“Uncabled Additions” have
shown) circumstantial analyses
in such careful publications as
London “Economist” convinc-
ingly exposed the whole thing
as a hoax.
Nevertheless it has had many
dupes, some of whom will no
doubt remain unmoved even by
what is now coming out. As
“U.S. News and World Report”
has noted, the Very Rev. Hew-
lett Johnson, “Red Dean”
of Canterbury Cathedral, sup-
ported the charge. So did a
Canadian missionary and a
French journalist. So did a so-
called “international scientific
commission” after examining
Communist claims.
The same publication also
reports that, to try to keep the
story alive, the Communists now
plan a “White Paper” on the
“germ-war” for world distribu-
tion. This, if it ever sees the
light, will necessarily include
the American airmen p.-0.-w.’s
“confessions.’* These convinced
the Red Dean and the rest.
In the “germ-war” propa-
ganda the “confessions” have
been “supported” by recorded
interviews in which U.S. air-
men told of dropping germ-
bombs ; pictures of germ-
spreading insects ; and—trump-
ing even the World War I
atrocity story of the German
“corpse-factory”—a story of a
mammoth “bacteria-factory” in
Japan where human bodies were
used as a breeding-ground to
propagate deadly germs.
“Now [“U.S. News & World
Report” further notes] some of
the officers who ‘confessed’
have been freed. For the first
time it is possible to get the
other side of the story—the side
the world does not know. What
prompted the confessions? Why
did U.S. airmen lecture fellow-
prisoners o n germ-warfare?
How did the Communists get
their American captives to co-
operate in a fantastic hoax?
“Tricks, lies, death threats,
torture, every cruelty imagin-
able was used to wring confes-
sions from the Americans. The
Communists rewrote statements,
altered dates, supplied their own
details to build a fictitious case
against the U.S. Often Ameri-
cans were forced to sign ‘con-
fessions’ sight unseen, threat-
ened with death if they
protested. The abuse went on
even after the truce was signed.”
As reported in London
“Times,” Dr. Charles Mayo,
United States U.N.O. repre-
sentative, in accusing the Rus-
sians of directing the extortion
of the “confessions,” reminded
the General Assembly of the
resolution it had passed last
April calling for an impartial,
behind-the-lines investigation of
the “germ-war” charges, and
that only the Soviet group had
voted against that resolution.
He added:
“From these few instances [he
had outlined the statements
made by U.S. airmen p:-0.-w.
since their release] it becomes
clear that the so-called ‘germ-
warfare’ confessions were not
simply sudden bright ideas on
the part of the Communists, but
were an integral part of a tre-
mendous and calculated cam-
paign of lies ; and that in this
campaign of lies the Commun-
ists used carefully worked-out
techniques and a considerable
body of trained personnel in
order to break the bodies and
souls of men and thus fulfil
their plans. .
“The techniques used were
subtle, prolonged, and calcu-
lated to disintegrate the mind of
an intelligent victim. The total
picture presented was one of
human beings reduced to a
status lower than that of ani-
mals. Filthy, full of lice, fes-
tered wounds full of maggots ;
their sickness regulated to a
point just short of death ; un-
shaven, without haircuts or
baths for as much as a year;
men in rags, exposed to the
elements; fed with carefully
measured minimum quantities
and the lowest quality of food
and insanitary water; isolated,
faced with squads of trained
interrogators, bullied inces-
santly, deprived of sleep, and
browbeaten into mental
anguish.”
The statement of one of the
"New York Times ”
STILL DOING BUSINESS AT THE SAME OLD STAND
repatriated American airmen
can be given as typical. It was
made at an official interview at
Freedom Village in Korea
shortly after the release of the
first four airmen who had made
“confessions.” In the interview,
one of these, Colonel Evans,
puts in a word now and then (he
also made a statement on the
same lines). The one quoted,
Colonel Walker M, Mahurin,
commanded the U.S. Fourth
Fighter Interceptor Group until
shot down in May, 1952. Here
is his story:
Col. Mahurin: “When I was
shot down I crashed with my
aircraft and broke my arm. I
got to Pyoktong [prison area]
about the latter part of June, I
believe —I am not sure of that.
“After we went to Pyoktong,
that is when it really began.
They were just about as cruel
as you can think, while you can
tell by looking at Andy that he
had a tough experience. [Col.
Andrew Evans emaciated,
white-faced, trembling uncon-
trollably— sat beside Mahurin.]
“They interrogated us up until
the second of September, both
by military interrogations and
political interrogations. We
were not told the war was over
until about the ninth of August
[the armistice was signed on
July 27].
“All during that time they
were convincing us that the war
was going to go on. And I had
been threatened, and Andy hid,
all of us had, with death, with
all kinds of torture, by being
shot, anything you can think of.
Both of us had to sit at rigid
attention for many, many days.
I spent over a month sitting on
a stool 15 hours a day at > regu-
lar attention.
“They gave us two choices.
The thing that was hardest for
all of us is the fact that our
wives didn’t know we were
alive. They told us that there
was a good possibility that we
would never go home.”
Q.: “Unless?”
Col. Mahurin: “Unless we
went along with them. So it
depended on the individual, how
long it took to co-operate with
them.
“I tried to commit suicide by
slashing my wrist. They caught
me just when I got away with,
it. I had a light in my room. I
was just about ready to lose
consciousness when the light
went off due to the fact that we
[U.S. planes] had bombed their
power-plant. And as soon as
the light went off the guards
came in the room and caught
me and then, of course, they
gave me medical treatment to
have me survive. They told me
that they were going to get a
confession out of me, a political
confession, regardless.”
Q.: “What sort of a confes-
sion was it?”
Col. Mahurin; “I would
rather not say, if you don’t
mind.”
Q.: “Germ-warfare?”
Col. Mahurin: “Right.”
Q.: “Security officers have
cleared descriptions of how the
Communists wrung these con-
fessions out of you fellows, and
we would like to hear yours.”
Col. Mahurin: “All right, if
that’s the case, here is the way
it is. They wanted us to con-
fess to germ-warfare. They
wanted everybody to confess.
The reason our interrogation
lasted up to the time it did—
the second of September—or
was it the third”?
Col. Evans: “The second.”
Col. Mahurin: —“the second
of September —was that by that
time they had enough confes-
sions that they could make
them all tie in. They got to the
point that it was so ridiculous
that they were writing the con-
fessions themselves.
“Mr. [Wilfred] Burchett and
Mr. [Alan] Winnington [Aus-
tralian and British correspon-
dents for. Communist papers
who often served as semi-official
spokesmen for the Chinese]
were writing our confessions.
They were bringing the confes-
sions and making us copy them
and sign them.
“The confessions are so
ridiculous that a child would
not believe it if he had any
intelligence whatsoever. They
involved fleas, flies and mos-
quitoes, starting in January of
1952. The temperature up there
goes down to about 40 or 50
degrees in the wintertime, below
zero, yet they claim that flies,
fleas and mosquitoes were flying
all over that area at that kind
of temperature.
“They had absolutely no evi-
dence on the ground. They ex-
plained it in this manner—in
their society, a confession is a
fact. If you confess, you’ve
done it, and they have no
scruples about the circum-
stances involved in your con-
fession. And not only your own
confession, but if'another pilot
confesses who is from your
organisation then that has, of
course, also made you guilty.
“And they do strange things
such as getting wire-recordings
of these confessions. Way, way
last year, way, way before I
started co-operating with them,
I had heard recordings of four
•boys who mentioned my name.
“I used the names of officers
who were dead, or of officers
who had retired from the ser-
vice years ago, things like that.
So you knew if anybody with
any brains examined the con-
fessions, they would know it
was ridiculous to start with, but
the Chinese, of course, were
buying it because their people
would be thoroughly convinced
—are thoroughly convinced —
that this [germ-warfare] is being
done. They called us war-
criminals and said, ‘lnasmuch


Continued Public Faith in the
[ Jjfe Society
A Year of Great Progress
T. & G. Policyholders have reason to be highly satisfied with the
outstanding results revealed in the 77th Annual Report of the Society.
NEW POLICIES
The public’s faith in the T. & G. is shown by the
record amount of New Business effected during the
year. 1 19,316 Life Policies assuring £39,922,798 and
14,349 Personal Accident and Sickness Policies were
issued, while Accident Benefits for £12,920,221 were
added to 32,804 Life Policies.
Head Office
Melbourne
ASSURANCES
IN FORCE
The extent of public confi-
dence in the T. & G. is
further indicated by the
total Assurances in Force
in the Ordinary and Indus-
trial Departments. There
are 1,610,000 policies in
force assuring
£280,000,000.
INCOME
The Income for the year exceeded £15,970,000, an
increase of more than £1,200,000 over the previous
year’s total.
SERVICE
Being a truly co-operative institution the T. & G.
places great emphasis on the prompt settlement of
all claims. £6,1 70,000 was paid to Policyholders last
year, making a total of more than £44,265,000 during
the past 10 years.
SECURITY
The Society s financial position is extremely strong.
The assets, which increased by more than £5,500,000
to the record total of £89,478,000 are invested in
first-class securities and are held in trust to meet pay-
ments to Policyholders.
GROUP ASSURANCE
The attractive benefits and conditions available from
the T. & G. under Staff Superannuation and Group
Provident Schemes again caused a substantial number
of Firms and Companies to place their schemes with
the Society.
77 Years of Service Purely Mutual, No Shareholders
The T. & G. is one of the strongest and most progressive Life Offices
in the British Empire.
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited (Incorporated in Victoria 1876)
as you are war-criminals we
consider that we can try you, or
not even try you, just do away
with you.’” .
Q.; “Were these Chinese or
North Koreans?”
Col. Mahurin: “This \yas
Chinese.”
Q ’ “Did they use physical
torture as well Colonel?”
Col Mahurin • “Well if vou
consider I tbirT that dtiimr
on the edee'of mv bed at reim
,“ “f Ct f ™ :y r a
nhv C i™i r A I
th a y t as as the Physical
person^wenth?J
S enH of
hours I W tn rail fo? Ihn hi p
Wheel ihlft/Ic imlfno me
in mm? k i , g , .
have dap a °i a .
anv Imfair I “ d ri d
what is common in their society
thpv pXhT£
cap it 9’’ 1 Wna G a Uiey
‘ t . .
GoL Evans; A self-cnti-
Cls m* . . .
Col. Mahurin: “A self-cnti-
cism, and he made me say, I
sincerely regret my attitude in
front of the military tribunal
and I resolve in the future never
to act the same way here.’ This
was a long time ago. And then
ne said, from now on, I will
write, i will confess,, and every-
I ‘UK Wl write from now on
will be true.
“They let me sleep for about
four hours and then got me up
again and they said, ‘Okay, con-
fess,’ and then 1 said, At the
bottom of that [the self-criti-
cism] I wrote, ‘From now on
everything I write will be true
so I am not going to write any-
thing.’ And then of course they
started all over again. That was
when I ended up for over 30
days on my stool.”
Q.: “What else?”
Col. Mahurin: “Oh, solitary
confinement, which ranges from
being put in a cave, or a hole,
or actually a durtgeon-like effect
with the doors closed, guards
looking in the window and
watching every move.
“Of course, those of us who
had tried to commit suicide,
they took everything away from
us and they watched me con-
tinuously with two people, two
guards all the time.
“We got to be just like pack
rats. We would pick up glass,
nails, stones, anything, just to
have it handy. Living condi-
tions were terrible up there.
When you talk about camp it
sounds like barracks and tents
and things like that. But (they
just moved in and occupied,
houses that were occupied. For
example, I lived in a house with
18 Koreans in it together with
me. It’s pretty terrible. But, of
course, to them it was-all right.”
Q.: “How did you talk to
them?”
Col. Mahurin: “I learned to
understand a little Chinese and
I could speak a little bit. I
could hear what went on in
these interrogations. You see,
they do this: The interrogator
may be a high-ranking Chinese
officer who doesn’t speak Eng-
lish. Translators are also inter-
rogators, and they translate
back and forth,
“But if the high-ranking
Chinese officer is convinced
that germ-warfare is going on,
then the interrogator, when you
say something, he distorts it to
give the non-English-speaking
man, and he says something
back to the interrogator to tell
us, they distort that. So the
whole thing is nothing but a
pack of lies. I knew enough
Chinese so I could tell what they
were talking about. If you
mentioned, for example, that
you had dropped something
someplace, they would arrange
to go out and plant it,”
Q.: “Did they ever make you
broadcast?”
Col. Mahurin: “Not me. I
didn’t get to that point.”
Q.: “What about wire-
recordings?”
Col. Mahurin: “Oh, yes, we
made wire-recordings,
“The first time they tried to
pull a wire-recording on me,
they type-wrote* a confession.
And one night they got me up
about 10.30 at night after I had
been asleep, and with a guard
with a pistol, another guard
with a tommy-gun and another
guard with a rifle, they took me
to a place I had never been.
“When I walked into the
room there was a podium set
up, and there were four inter-
rogators sitting around the
podium, and they handed me a
typewritten copy and they said,
‘We have this confession, and
we also have your handwritten
confession.’
“They' gave me the type-
written confession and so I read
the thing through with the
lights out —they came off and
on —an air-raid was going on,
we were having a blackout. So
after I finished, they said, ‘We
aren’t sure you have all that
straight, so read it again, to
make sure it is straight.’
“So I started again, and the
lights went off again. After I
had finished I read the one 1
had written denying the whole
thing. Then they said, ‘Which
one of these is correct?’ and the
guard walked up and jammed a
pistol in my back. By that time,
of course, I thought, ‘This is
the night that they’re going to
get me.’ And I said, ‘The one
where I deny it is correct,’ and
they blew up and said, ‘Just for
that you’ll have to tell us the
strategic plans of this business.’
Then they said, ‘Go back to
your room,’ and all the way
back to the room the guard was
mad as hell because the lights
had gone out and they hadn’t
gotten what they wanted.
“Then they put me in solitary
confinement and they didn’t
start again until about the
middle of April. Then they
started all over again and they
kept telling me my wife didn’t
know whether I was alive or
not, and I knew nobody down
here knew. I began to think
maybe I would do it. Then I
began to write, and it went on
and on and on until we finally
did our confessions, so to speak.
“After we had written the
confessions we had' to make
wire-recordings. Then we had
to write the confessions on a
piece of cardboard that was
suitable for lithographing so the
confession could be printed.
“When this was done and
they got all of them together—
this was just the last day or so
before they started to send us
home—then they made us do it
all over again. They eliminated
Burchett and Winnington by
this time, and they eliminated
some of the silly stuff that was
in it and now had them all
jibe.”
Q.: “Did you see both Bur-
chett and Winnington?”
Col. Mahurin: “Winnington
sat with the military tribunal
and interrogated me for miff-
tary information, and when the
interrogation was over he spent
about 15 minutes telling me
what he thought of me, in no
uncertain terms, and all those
sneers, you can imagine. And
he would ask me questions, as,
‘How are you being treated?’
“When you’re in front of
your enemy and someone asks
how you are being treated, you
can’t say they’re giving you
trouble. You just say, ‘Well, all
right,’ and he, of .course, knew
everything that was going on.”
Q.: “What about Burchett?”
Col. Mahurin: “I only met
him the last night and Burchett
was very pleasant to me. Very
pleasant. No military business
at all.”
Q.; “How did you know they
had * corrected these manu-
scripts?”
Col. Mahurin: “Some of the
youngsters told me. But obvi-
ously, when we first confessed,
we wrote it and they com-
plained about our English,
etcetera.
“When it would come back
to us in a typewritten copy,
there would be many changes
in it—dates, changes in sen-
tence-structure and so on.
Somebody who had a good
command of English was doing
it.”
Q.; “Colonel, can you tell us
specifically what is in these
confessions?”
Col. Mahurin: “I’d just as
soon not, if you don’t mind.”
Q.: “But you had to say
something about dropping
germs.”
Col. Mahurin: “All of us
had to do that, of course. The
basic thing was that we said we
were dropping fleas, flies and
mosquitoes that were infected
with everything that we could
think of, and a lot of us had
stuff that isn’t carried by fleas.
For example, one boy said his
fleas, flies and mosquitoes were
infected with tetanus. Of
course, tetanus is blood-poison-
ing. But they bought that. And
they bought typhoid. I think
typhoid is borne by water, you
drink typhoid in water.”
Q.: “Colonel, do you have
any idea how many men they
managed to wring confessions
out of?”
Col. Mahurin: “I don’t have
any idea at all, but I would say
quite a number in my camp.
That doesn’t mean that all of
them confessed, or that that
was the only group. But if you
have a choice of confessing, or
not confessing and not going
home, it is probably a pretty
certain thing that the majority
of the people did. I would say
that the boys who didn’t should
get Congressional Medals of
Honor. They are superb.”


iliiiii
I ‘
HARRY
DEARTH
G
*
Featuring GEORGE FOSTER and a panel of outstanding women.
Presented by Malgic Adrenaline Cream
2GB - SAW - 4BH - SDN - 6IX - 7HO
2HR 2MW 2LF 2PK 2MG 2WL 2LT
2CA 3CV 4GY 6WB 6MD 6BY 7LA a*
T/ke MACQUARIE
CASTING SERVICE
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
osmxrvAx
n*vnx.<,,
’’fe'S KRtsjJ" V
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
rum neat on a cold night pretty
soon you start singing or creep
in somewhere and go to sleep,
according to the way you’re
built. I didn’t buy that rum to
drink it. I got no gun, and a
bottle is thef next best, if you
know how to use’ it and been
through the commando school.
I’m in a street of houses, and
when I see one with a light in it
and hedge right round the front
fence I go through the gate and
ring the bell. Somebody hits a
switch inside and lights the
porch where I’m standing, and
I just got time to tip my hat
well over my eyes when a youth
opens the door.
“Sorry to. trouble you, I’m
looking for Silvermine-street.”
“Turn to the right out the
gate, it’s the second cross-street.”
“Thanks.”
I turn away.
“Cold out,” he says, because
he’s curious.
I’m halfway to the gate.
“Yeah, cold. - Good-night.”
I’m out the gate and turning
to the right. The porch-light
stays on. I know he’s listening to
my footsteps, just to make sure
I go to the right and because
he knows I must be a stranger
and because it looks funny to
him a stranger asking for a
street at that time of night. So
I hit the pavement hard so he
can hear me. The light goes off.
Before I get to the second
cross-street I got to jump a low
fence and drop flat on a lawn.
Because a car turned into the
street I’m in and headed my way,
and by now Keough could have
patrols chasing me. It went past
so slow I’m sure it’s a police-
prowler. I watch it go away
and then break into a jog-trot
because I’m in a hurry and be-
cause the cold is beginning to
dig into me and I can feel a
little ache in my busted ribs.
So I come into Silvermine-
street. It’s where the brass lives,
all right, because it’s a better-
made pavement than the one I
come out of and got mercury
lamps hanging over the road.
The one I come out of just Had
little lamps on poles along the
footpath. The houses are
bigger and more grounds and a
lot of trees and shrubs about.
I’m pleased about the trees and
shrubs, because they make
plenty shadows.
They got white enamel num-
bers on their gates, too. The
first one I sight is 33. So I slip
across the road and find 36.
Right of that is 38, so I start
to work back.
In No. 16 there’s a party of
some sort. The house all lights
and cars parked in front, and I
can hear music and voices.
That’s the ounce of luck I been
looking for, because all I got to
do is stuff Henry’s hat inside
the robe and walk across that
lawn bold as brass and anybody
sees me I’m just somebody from
the party, maybe put a robe on
to slip out to his car or just
fancy-dressing and having fun.
Because people run about and
do funny things at parties and
the liquor makes them gay and
nobody notices anybody.
I get across that lawn, in
among the shrubs, and into a
dark spot against a hedge. This
hedge is only about four feet
high, and on the other side of
it is No. 14. And No. 14 is the
residence of Mr. and Mrs.
Richajrd Paterson. Over the
hedge I see one light in No. 14
and it tells me the house has two
floors. I can smell pines, and
they hide the wall of Elaine’s
house from me in the dark, but
that light is so high it’s got to be
upstairs. There’s plenty of
noise from the party in back of
me, and it comes to me that may-
be Elaine and Richard is among
the guests, being next-door
neighbors. What I like is the
noise, because when I feel that
hedge and find it has no thorns
all I got to do is scramble across
it and the noise from the party
kills the noise I make. All I got
to worry about now is a dog, and
I wait. I got my hat back on
and the rum bottle in my left
hand and I wait.
No dog comes.
I lean against one of the pine-
trees. I got here and all of a
sudden I’m no good. Because
this is the first part and it’s 6ver
and there’s a let-down and the
rum inside me gone cold. It’s
dark and cold and Elaine’s
house in front of me and no
sign of life in it except that
light upstairs. I’m no good,
and I’m a ruddy fool, because
now it looks silly to think
Peters is in there and maybe
Kathy. I lean against the tree
and it looks stone-cold silly. It
looks like I done no good for
Kathy acting like this. I got
out of that hospital and down to
The Star and all the way here
and now it looks silly. So I
screw the cork out of that bottle
and snake a bite at the rum and
put the cork back and lean
against the tree.
Pretty soon the rum hits me
and I feel better and go over it
in my mind —what I thought
about Elaine and Peters —and
then it don’t look silly. Because
this is about the only place
where Peters can be, and just
because the house is dark and
nobody in it making a noise
don’t mean a thing. The rum
works in me and I stop feeling
tired and let-down. I get going
again, because if Peters ain’t in-
side that house he’s maybe some-
where outside it. I got to look
over the outside first, just to
make sure he isn’t around, and
to know the layout. Because
you’re creeping into a place
where you got no business to be
and somebody there maybe
waiting for you with a gun, you
got to know the layout in case
you want to fade out in a hurry.
What they taught us in the com-
mandos. So I start moving
among them pines.
Next door the party hits it up,
and that suits me. Because I’m
like a cat, but sometimes you
make a little noise. The party
either kills or alibis any noise I
make. There’s nobody, in the
Paterson grounds but me. The
pines stand in a line from the
front entrance down one side.
Between them and the house is a
drive with two concrete strips
and grass between. The drive
ends in a double garage behind
the house. The garage is locked.
Maybe Peters is in there. He
can wait. Flanking the garage
is a tennis-court. At the back,
between the court and the back
of the garage is a small shed,
locked. I prowl the shed, smell
it, tap it. No hint of any life
in it. I hit a high fence behind
tfie tennis-court and walk it
down. There’s a gate into a
lane. The gate is locked. Along
the top of the fence run three
barbed wires. Up the other side
of the house a paling fence
runs to Silvermine-street. Be-
tween it and the house is a
long, narrow truck garden—
lettuce, cabbage, and so on.
Between this garden and the
house is a high trellis with some
sort of vine on it, and between
the trellis and the house is a
path.
So I come to the back of the
house. It’s in darkness. Half-
•way along it runs a glassed-in
veranda, and the other part is
a straight wall with a’ small win-
dow. I bet on that being a toilet
and bathroom, with maybe a
laundry one side and inside them
maybe the kitchen.
So I’m back where I started
from and got a fair picture of
the outside of Elaine’s house and
no sign of Peters or Kathy or
any place where they could be.
Which puts them inside if my
guess is right. So now I got to
get inside. You want to get in-
side a house ip the night and
not draw attention you ought to
know the layout. I don’t know
it. I stay by the pines and I’m
tired and it looks hopeless and
the cold working at me. The
whole thing looks haywire, and
in‘ between being cold and tired
I’m a little scared and panicky.
Because I left the hospital on
a hunch and got to here after a
lot of hard work and dodging,
and it looks like I’m the two
ends and the middle of a fool.
You start to feel like that on a
stunt like I’m on you need some
help. I had some help. In a
bottle. So I took some help
and waited for it to start helping
me. All it does is warm me a
little and it gives me a notion
to cough, I bite back the notion
and take a little more help. And
a kind of a sensation comes
over me like when you wake up
and you been dreaming and you
get a shock to find it’s a dream
—a sort of coming-to. So I
come to, and the whole thing
looks crazy. Peters isn’t here.
Kathy isn’t here. Elaine maybe
in the party next-door, or may-
be gone to bed with the husband
she loves 'but can’t be content
with. And Delaney out in the
cold like a lost soul or some-
thing and all sorts of a fool
and
Down in the town a clock
knocks off eight chimes. That
makes it half-past ten. Well, I
can still get back to the hospital.
I can still make it before
Up in the air over my head a
dry, raspy voice says, “You want
some tea, kid?”
I’d know that voice if I heard
it in hell, and my heart near
jumps through my mouth.
Peters!
{To be concluded next week) *
inch by inch, until we realised
that we possibly cramped their
style. So we’d wander off down
the line, and, in the loneliness
of that great waste, remove our
uniforms and sit on a boulder
for as long as that sundrenched
hardness would allow in such
flimsy attire, to say nothing of
those little black flies!
One night, returning empty,
we were abed, and, half-awake,
I was vaguely aware that all
was not well, as we slowly
ground our way up an incline.
Presently I heard the engine
choof over the top and the rest
of the cars stop momentarily and
then run backwards down the
line. It was a ghastly feeling
as the carriages gathered
momentum in reverse. The
guard, however, pulled himself
up on the chains at the door I
had opened, and I was able to
light his way through our
carriage to the brake-van behind.
We came to* a standstill on a
bridge, and the engine returned
for us, and, with muttered refer-
ences to the ancestry of the
outmoded rolling-stock, we were
hitched on again and on our
way.
The excitement was not
always supplied by the Rail-
ways ! One trip we had a nerve-
case who became restless on the
train. I endeavored to interest
him in a cup of cocoa, and to
help him with it put the lantern
on the floor. He thought I was
Edith Cavell, and, so saying, he
poured the cocoa over the lamp,
and, we were in darkness, with
him fast going berserk. The
boys struck matches, and to this
day whenever I hear wax-vestas
being scratched I am reminded
of that incident.
Another trip we took a*‘medi-
cal officer with us. We knew
he was not very well, but we
did not expect him to insist on
sleeping with two guns in his
belt, over his pyjamas. The
tension could be felt in the dark-
ness, and next morning, as we
sat at the breakfast-table, he
twirled the chamber of a
revolver as we munched our
naked beans. Did we have indi-
gestion after that trip? Cer-
tainly we did! 1 *
Generally, though, it was
jporedom one had to combat. I
managed it by conducting the
“Cupid’s Love Service,” which
consisted of carrying letters to
the particular heart-interest of
the moment, moved down or
up the line by a thoughtless
“brasshat.” I was warned by
the postal-sergeant that I was
contravening the law, but I
turned a deaf ear.
Then I met the General,
and he said, “Ah, yes, I’ve
been wanting to ask you:
Do you carry letters as you
travel up and down?” I ad-
mitted I did. “Do you not
realise that you are infringing
the security regulations?” So I
explained that the inter-unit mail
took 10 days to traverse a hun-
dred miles or so, and Lena her-
self was not altogether fast, and
hence was surely “safe” enough,
and, anyway, there was not
much news, and what did a few
“I love you’s” matter?
He looked me straight in ‘the
eye, smiled, and did not answer.
So I took it that he was human,
after all, and continued to carry
the love-letters, which entitled
me to take a lively interest in
everyone’s affairs, and who
could be bored then?
Lorna Laffer.
SPORT
The wind came up like laughter
And blew away the drears
Of reasoning and logic—
The wind came up and blew
Their offspring Sweet Proportion,
And Fear the free wild-born
(And stimulant to splendor
Only the noblest dare
In glory and in passion
Alight with comet’s hair.)
The wind came up. Creation
May never name the day
It comes, it comes with laughter
To sweep all space away.
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN.


thNSKMebilce
Grain Auger Bale Elevator
Sealed Transmission •
d
imE,
-y r
M
PATENTS
PENDING
J.
¥ m
Dual Purpose
with Dust-Proof
* Here's the new Grain Auger the
MOBILCO, which brings to the Aus-
tralian Farmer all the advantages of
completely sealed, positive-power,
bevel gear transmission, Look it over
point by point, compare it with all
you've ever wanted in a wheat auger
and it's all there —speed, power,
lightness, strength, manoeuvrability,
reliability . . . they're all there in the
NEW Mobilco ... and they will stay
there through a lifetime of trouble free
running. Yes, this season more than
ever, men who know will use Mobilco.
LOOK WHAT YOU GET WITH MOBILCO
Quick-change Extension Piece
Basic 20 ft. Model can be made into
24, 29 or 33 ft. lengths by adding
quick-fit extension pieces. Top section
of auger (above) can be fitted to bot-
tom to make long snout to fit deep
into silos for emptying. Mobilco makes
a complete range of Augers from 20
to 42 feet in length.
Engine Suspension
Strong steel cradle is centrally sus-
pended for perfect balance. Smooth
action compensating device keeps
engine vertical at all Auger elevation
angles.
Positive Action Clutch
Hand lever action combines gentle take-up movement with
positive, slip-free final engagement. 4 stroke petrol engine
(5 or 7 h.p. according to Auger size) supplies all the power you
need.- Engine starts easily. It is governed and runs for three
hours on one gallon of petrol.
Ratchet and Safety Catch Winch
Double handled winch with automatic safety catch holds auger
firmly at alf elevations. Maximum vertical heights, ground to
output chute: 20 ft. model, 14 ft. 9 ins.; 24 ft., 17 ft. 9 ins.;
29 ft., 20 ft. 9 ins.; 33 ft., 23 ft. 9 ins.; 42 ft. model, 31 ft.
m
m
m
m
mu
' ' C-’
f.y
BAG AND BALE
ELEVATOR ATTACHMENT
See what you get with
Mobilco—two machines
in one' . . a Wheat
Auger to work at har-
vest time and a firs*
class elevator to work
all the year round. It's
a big saving on farm
plant costs when you
buy two machines in
one.
NOT LONG Till HARVEST
TIME. WRITE TODAY FOR
DETAILS OF THE NEW
MOBILCO. GUARANTEED
TWO YEARS.
mobile industrial equipment ltd.
47 SOUTH PARADE, CAMPSIE. PHONE: LF 4209 - - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - PHONE: WU 1081 (9 LINES)
£ RANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON - AGENTS; ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUST.
MOB CO
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Famous Fights at
the Stadium by C. A. Jeffries, pub-
lished by the Platypus Presp, Syd-
ney.—s 649.
To buy copy of Karangi by F. S.
Hibble.—s6so.
Information Sought
Some information on the Hudson’s
Bay Company {Canada} 7
Chartered on May 2, 1670, the
firm’s full title is The Governor and
Company of Adventurers of England
Trading into .Hudson’s Bay. It once
owned half of North America, fought
naval battles and land wars, founded,
most of the cities of north-west
Canada and did tremendous develop-
mental work. The co. yielded its
civil power to the Dominion of
Canada in 1869. —before that the
company’s word was law in a huge
area. Its present headquarters are
in Winnipeg, and the company is
still 90 p.c. British-owned. Its 275
stores serve the Canadian north with
just about everything the inhabitants
need. The firm’s ramifications are
extensive —once synonymous solely
with the fur trade, it now runs a
shipping-fleet, a cargo air-line, a
radio-telegraph service, a distillery in
Scotland, a golf-course, an anthro-
pological museum, a woollen mill in
Yorkshire and other businesses, be-"
sides its innumerable stores. The
chairman of the co.’s board (Sir
Patrick Ashley Cooper) is called the
governor, and the stockholders’
annual meeting is called the general
court. By its ancient charter the co.
is obliged tq pay a'tribute of two
elks and two black beavers to all
members of the Royal family visiting
Canada.
♦ * * u
A reliable laying-mash for fowls ?
Suitable mashes may be mixed
according to the type of stock-foods
most readily available; however, the
following . popular mash is sug-
gested:—Wheat-meal, 301 b.; pol-
lard, 301 b.; bran, 251 b.; meal-meal,
151 b.; and salt, 11b. This mash may
be fed in addition to wheat or other
grains in the afternoon, with green-
feed given as a supplementary feed.
When green-feed is not available add
Vitamin A fish oils to the mash.
Particulars, for use will be given on
the container of the particular brand.
♦■♦ ♦ ♦
What is leitmotiv 7
In music a term used to describe
a distinctive passage or phrase form-
ing the principal .theme of a composi-
tion, or symbolising persons or ideas.
It was first popularised by Wagner
for the basic material of his musical
dramas.
♦ * * ♦
I have heard of the Keeper of the
Great Seal {in Britain). What is the
great seal 7
The Lord High Chancellor is the
officer of State who holds the great
seal. Since the union with Scotland
(1707) there has been only the one
great seal for the United Kingdom.
It is used for sealing public docu-
ments of great importance (treaties,
writs to summon Parliament). The
use of the seal has to large extent
been supplanted by that of wafer
great seals made on wax or embossed
paper. But treaties with foreign
Powers are still ratified by letters-
patent under the great seal. On a
demise of the Crown, when a new
great seal must be made, the old
seal belongs to the chancellor, though
it is first theoretically broken or
“damasked” by a light blow with a
hammer.
* * * *
Something about the enclosures
carried out in England during the
Middle Ages 7
The purpose of enclosure (of waste
or common land; sometimes, how-
ever, of smallfarmers’ strips) was to
bring more and more land under
cultivation or to institute large-scale
farming. The first enclosures were
made in the 13 th century, when
common-land was taken-over by
lords-of-the-manor. The lord was
forced to leave sufficient pasturage
for the villagers. There were big
enclosures in the 15th and 16th
centuries (nevertheless a land-agent
writing in 1727 claimed that one-half
England was still waste at that
date). Enclosure usually improved
the land (by allowing alternate
pasture and tillage) and brought
about increased output of food. The
great enclosures t>f the 16th century
were mainly in Suffolk, Essex, Kent
and Norfolk, which became the best-
cultivated parts of England and the
wealthiest counties. Some of ■ the
18th-century enclosures (though, ac-
cording to the historian Toynbee,
“economically advantageous”) were of
strip-farming land, and “great injury
was thus done to the poor and
ignorant freeholders who lost their
rights in ’the common lands.” The
yeoman-farmer was in this way
driven off the land. However, to
quote Toynbee again, ‘ “Severely as-
these changes bore upon the rural
population, they wrought, without
doubt, distinct improvement agricul-
turally. They meant the substitution
of scientific for unscientific culture.”
Enclosures continued till the 19th
century.
* * * *■
What is a Papal brief ?
According to Everyman’s Encyclo-
pedia, it is the term used to denote
Papal documents which are drawn up
without the full ceremony which the
Bull necessitates. The brief is furn-
ished with a red wax stamp showing
St. Peter drawing in a net and sur-
mounted by the name of the Pope
(“the ring of the fisherman”). The
brief was instituted to lessen the work
of the Papal . chancery, whence
derives the name.
* # * *
Has Canada a distinctive slang? or
is Canadian slang the same as
American {U.S.) ? v
According to Eric Partridge’s
Slang Today and Yesterday, Canadian
slang is 80 p.c. American (U.S.),
“with the remainder rather more
English than native-Canadian.” The
language of the French Canadians
has to some extent influenced the
colloquial speech of the rest of the
population, but as the Canadian,
French (language) is dying out its
influence is- waning. Most of the
Canadian slang-terms used by the
soldiers of both wars came origin-
ally from U.S. One reason for this
is that Canadian newspapers are all
supplied with news by American
Press agencies, and everything is thus
discussed in American terms. One
distinctively Canadian slang-term
given by Partridge is “bonza”
(good).
* * * *
Who was Ramon Lull 7
He was a Spanish mystic, known
as the “enlightened doctor.” Born
in Majorca, about 1235, he led a
dissipated life till 1266, when he
determined to devote his life to the
conversion of the Moslems (who
were then still influential in Spain).
He believed that the conversion of
Islam could best be achieved by
refuting its philosophers, especially
Averroes. Lull’s views were a
rationalistic mysticism—he believed
that theology and philosophy were
one. He was martyred by the
Saracens in 1315, but he has ’never
been canonised as a saint, probably
because his views about faith and
reason are seriously in error. His
philosophy was condemned by a Papal
Bull (1376), and is now of interest
only for its breaking-a Way from the
scholastic system. Several alchemical
works written at a later date were
attributed to him.
Brief Answers
L.T.; We suggest three books by
Bennett Cerf — Good for a Laugh
(16/-), Laughing Stock (16/-), and
Laughter Incorporated (13/6). All
contain very good stories of the type
you require, and all are obtainable
from Angus and Robertson, 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney (postage
9d.) A.T.-B.: Long-service leave
is granted only to employees whose
rates of wages and conditions of
employment are subject to the provi-
sions of .an industrial award. As the
duties you performed were not sub-
ject to the provisions of an industrial
award, you are not entitled to long-
service leave. An employee to whom
the provisions of an industrial award
applies, in order to be eligible to
obtain thirteen weeks’ long-service
leave, must have completed 20 years’
continuous service with an employer.
If employed for 15 years and less
than 20 years he would be granted
long-service leave on a pro-rata basis
of 13 weeks for 20 years’ service.
B.C.: In 1893 a flood in the
Brisbane River washed a small naval
vesspl, the Gayundah, ashore into the
Botanic Gardens. A contract was
let to refloat her and the contractor
had dug a few trenches when an-
other flood came down the river and
refloated the vessel. The people who
let the contract did not -want to
pay, stating that it was an act of
God, but eventually they had to do
50....1.C.: The Australian Institute
of Management sponsored the tour.
J.S.: Bermuda consists .of a
group of 360 small islands (about 20
inhabited); it lies 580 miles east of
North Carolina and 670-odd miles
from New York. It is now an
important British and American
naval- and air-base. Civil popula-
tion (Dec., 1947) was 35,560....
K.L.: One or two coats of Clear
shellac applied to 'the crack in the
pane of glass should waterproof it
ppnding its replacement A.R.H.:
Suggest that, to avoid ornaments and
ash-trays scratching your polished
tables, they be given a base of felt.
Tracing the base of the articles on
paper and using this as a pattern
for the felt, cut to size. Paste on
with strong adhesive, and trim....
H. 8.: There have been plenty of
rumors that the person named did
not die, but survived in various parts
of Australia. Different people have
claimed to have been him. But, as
far as we know (and most, if not
all, authorities agree with us), he
died in the hotel-fire at Glenrowan.
G.D.: “Tektites” are curious
glassy bodies, containing a high per-
centage of silica, which are thought
to be of meteoritic origin. This
origin is ascribed because they ap-
pear to be unconnected with recent
or ancient volcanoes. They have
been found in parts of Australia, in
the Dutch East Indies and in parts
of Europe... .J.Y.: Unable to esti-
mate the likely cost. Apart from
other factors, the expense entailed
will vary according to the type of
materials used... .F.W.: We could
not discover the origin of the name
Jondaryan. It is not an aboriginal
word. Hanwood (near Griffith,
N.S.W.) was originally named Jon-
daryan ; it was renamed because
there is a Queensland township of
the same name. In the Darling
Downs district there was. an early
pastoral holding (1847) named Jon-
daryan.


LONDON STORY!
“ Trust TILLEY
to make something Better!"
»■:
It may surprise, you, who have known
The TILLEY Domestic Iron Model
DN 250 for a long time, to know that it
is only within the last few months that it
has been released to the Home Market.
Recently, at the Dairy Show at Olympia,
LONDON, the iron was exhibited on
our Stand for the first time. Standing a
little to one side, with his wife on his arm,
was a rosy-cheeked farmer. They gazed
in silent admiration at the iron for some
minutes. Then, turning to his wife, he
said with pride in his voice:
“ Trust TILLEY to make something
better! ”
It was obvious that Tilley Lamps and
Radiators had become true friends to
these simple farming folk. They accepted
without question the fact that any new
Tilley product must be the best of its kind.
We felt very proud at this spontaneous
demonstration of faith in our products.
It is people who live and work with
Tilley Lamps day by day who know the
value of sound workmanship and
absolute reliability. There is no doubt
about it the new Tilley Domestic Iron
IS better 11
No wires—no flexes 1
Burns 4 hours on £-pint of Kerosene—in
or out of doors !
Specially large bevelled sole plate for
smoother Ironing.
Saves hours—no walking backwards and
forwards to the hot-plate. Beautifully
finished in cream and gleaming chromium
plating', with black heat-resisting handle.
While import restrictions remain you may have difficulty in obtaining TILLEY
Products. We look forward to the day, not too long distdnt, when you can once
again freely buy the best. They are obviously well worth waiting for I
Manufacturers’ Representatives:— ;
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.,
123-125 William Street. Melbourne, C.l.
m
Fireplace
Harmony
DESIGN:' No. 8
HEIGHT: 3'7J"
WIDTH: 6'6f"
A Wunderlich Terra-Cotta Fireplace Surround
gives the finishing touch to the modern living
room. The ceramic cream mottled buff glaze
finish is in harmony with present day furnishings,
and affords freedom from discolouration.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, or write to
Wunderlich Limited, Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney, for
illustrated booklet of designs.
IREPLACE SURROUNDS
OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Win for Charter
“Peeler”; E. Hartigan, Tocal,
Tam worth, won the North-west
Slopes championship of the Syd-
ney R.A.S. wheat-contest with
a crop of Charter likely to go
53 bushels an acre. Second was
R. A. Weinthal, Bindi, Spring
Ridge (Gabo), and third M.
Scott, Peebles, Currabubula
(Eureka 2).
R. C. Powell, the judge, said
Hartigan’s crop of Charter was
almost perfectly clean and gener-
ally very even. It lost points
because of the presence of foot-
rot and also because some of
the crop, lodged in a section of
about two acres, would not ripen
well.
The Charter was on land
which had been out to lucerne
and grazing for 13 years. As
indicated by the yield of 51
bushels an acre, the Gabo crop
grown by Weinthal was an ex-
cellent one, but lost on show
points due to wide driving and
some unevenness. It also con-
tained some rust. The Gabo
was produced on old wheatland.
this being the second crop after
a temporary-pasture phase.
Scott s Eureka 2 maintained a
rather high standard m most
show characteristics. Had the
estimated yield been comparable
with that of the first and second
crops it would have been diffi-
cult to displace from first posi-
tion. It was even and very
free from weeds, and only a
- small amount of disease was
evident. It was grown on land
, which had been laid out to
natural pasture for about four
years.
Powell said weed-growth, par-
ticularly black oats and thistle,
was most noticeable. This did
not specifically apply to competi-
tion-crops, which were appre-
ciably superior in this regard to
average crops in the locality.
He believes the weed-growth is
the result of too-heavy and con-
tinuous cropping without the use
of soil-improving crops.
There is ample evidence from
experimental-work in N.S.W. to
show that land may be very
substantially reduced in its yield-
capacity by constant heavy
cropping, quite apart from the
competition provided by heavy
weed-growth. This evidence sug-
gests that even the most produc-
tive land may be reduced by up
to 50 per cent, in 30 years by
heavy cropping - programmes
which do not allow for reason-
ably substantial periods of pas-
ture and grazing.
Infestation with black oats,
said Powell, indicated that im-
mediate action is necessary to
maintain these fertile lands xhe
. ~ , . . , :
yied f rom crops which will be
harvested in the north-west ap-
pears to be fairly substantial,
An “over-the-fence” estimate
indicated that the crops, exclud-
ing those which have failed, will
yield between 18 and 21 bushels
an acre.
Johnson-grass Resists
“Tercia”: T.C.A. (trichloro-
acetic acid) was developed in
U.S.A. in 1949 as a weedicids
for the control of grasses not
susceptible to the hormone-
weedkillers, About two million
pounds of this sodium salt of
the chemical were used in that
country in 1951, chiefly in the
control of couch- and Johnson
grasses.
In Australia T.C.A. has not so
far been very effective against
Johnson-grass, It has succeeded
in killing the top-growth, but
has riot prevented regrowth from
the underground rootstocks.
Unlike the hormones, T.C.A.
acts primarily on the roots of
plants, and its application to the
foliage is waste of material. The
use of a contact-herbicide is
therefore desirable to kill the
top-growth of Johnson-grass
before applying T.C.A. to the
soil.
Most recent experiments in
America have shown that the
rapidity of action and thorough-
ness of the kill of Johnson-
grass with T.C.A. have been
greatly increased by the addi-
ti o n of pentachlorophenol,
dinitro compounds or aromatic
oils.
Fat Lambs
“Valeman”; It’s not generally
realised in Australia that the ex-
port trade demands a low-set,
full-quartered lamb, giving a
uniform fine-grained meat and
fineness of bone. Complaints
include irregularity of backline,
both as regards breadth and
contour, and the failure to
bring forward the weight in ex-
port-lambs in the shortest pos-
sible time (from 12 to 16 weeks
is recommended). The standard
weight for ’ export is 321 b. to
361 b., but up to 421 b. is allow-
able.
Sire-selection calls for thought.
It depends largely on environ-
mental conditions and experi-
ence. The Downs sheep are
noted for early - maturing
lambs and the fine quality of
their mutton. There are, how-
ever, two drawbacks to these
breeds: the wool is inferior, and
the best of feed must be always
available. In Victoria, the
Corriedale fills the bill satisfac-
torily. The English Leicester,
Border Leicester and Lincoln are
also good dual-purpose sires.
Buy pure-bred sires from
registered flock-owners. Cross-
breds or mongrels are waste of
both time and money. Times of
mating are controlled by climate
and pasture. Rams noticeably
sluggish in service should be
eliminated. And don’t let them
run in the flock throughout the
year. Keep the lambing-period
as short as possible.
Citrus
“C.H.”: Young citrus-trees
not in bearing don’t require
heavy doses of fertiliser. Cover-
crops of peas or beans and
dressings of lewt. to 2cwt. of
sulphate of ammonia per year
are sufficient.
Ploughed-in during the winter
months, stable - manure rots
quickly and provides sufficient
nourishment for the trees
through spring and early sum-
mer. Applications of artificial
fertilisers should not start till
the trees begin new growth in
late winter or early spring.
Flowering and setting of fruit
then respond well.
Glasshouse Tomatoes
“Lyco”: A new method for
glasshouse-growing of tomatoes,
called ring-culture, with special
economical methods of watering
and nutrition which greatly in-
crease the yield, is getting
results.
Bottomless pots, each contain-
ing about 141 b. of soil enriched
with organic-matter and fertili-
ser, rest on a porous floor-layer
of inert material such as sand,
ashes, clinkers or gravel, which
is kept fully moist. The mois-
ture rises from this floor-layer to
keep the enriched soil in the
pots constantly damp, without
the waterlogging sometimes oc-
curring from ordinary watering.
An ideal medium for the plant-
roots is thus constantly main-
“No you can't—you've had YOUR whack.”
tained. The roots extend freely
into the inert material to obtain
abundant moisture for replacing
the losses suffered by transpira-
tion. Thus two fundamentally-
different root-systems are en-
couraged, to the great advantage
of the crop.
Yields of more than 98 tons
of tomatoes to the acre have
been authentically produced by
this new system.
Sydney Show
“H.N.S.”: Prizemoney and
trophies worth an aggregate of
£30,074 a record will be
offered for competition at Syd-
ney Royal Show next Easter.
The prizemoney will be allotted
to more than 3300 competitions
in 16 separate sections.
Biggest increase in prize-
money had been made in the
general horse classes, cash prizes
for which total £7711, in addi-
tion to about 250 open orders
and trophies valued at £669.
Trotting prizemoney will total
£4315. An additional £602 will
be awarded to owners of horses
which win heats of trotting con-
tests.
Cattle competitions will carry
prizemoney of £4320 and
trophies valued at more than
£750. The Show prize-list in-
cludes £BB3 for the pig section,
£978 for poultry, £679 for dogs,
£2151 for agriculture, £1142 for
horticulture, £2900 for wood-
chopping and sawing, £790 for
arts and handicrafts, £487 for
dairy-produce, £1414 for special
attractions in the main ring,
£lOO , for judging competitions,
£lB5 for pigeons, £3B for phea-
sants, £62 for canaries, £B2 for
cage-birds, £ll6 for fat lambs,
£159 for goats, £213 for wines
and £62 for cats.
Garden Bulbs
“Wilco”: Bulbous and tuber-
ous plants won’t do well in
soggy, puggy soils; they need a
drained situation, sight of the
morning sun and coolness
around their roots.
The coolness can be brought
about by mulching around the
stems with leaves, straw, etc.
Once the mulch is down the
ground will stay moist without
constant watering.
Where the soil is allowed to
remain deficient in humus, or no
mulch is provided, garden-plots
must be constantly soaked with
water. This is likely to lead to
wilt, especially in dahlias.
Trying to keep bulbs in growth
and flowering longer than their
natural period wifi injure good
tubers. Though some bulbs
make growth the year round,
most have an inactive period.
Keeping bulbs from one sea-
son to another isn’t hard. Lift
the bulbs when the top growth
has died and store them in a
cool, dry place.
Mastitis
“Agric”: Widespread use of
penicillin had effected an enor-
mous reduction in the losses
suffered from the common form
of mastitis-infection, but the
increasing importance of penicil-
lin-resistant forms of mastitis
was evidenced by the 1107 milk
samples submitted for bacterio-
logical examination, said Dr.
John Legg, Queensland Depart-
ment of Agriculture, in his
annual report.
Most of these 1107 samples,
he said, were from herds where
there was a high incidence of
streptococcal mastitis, or where
penicillin - resistant infections
such as staphylococcal mastitis,
were prevalent. Ip either instance
control of the disease was
effected by improved sanitation
and milking , technique—two
THE WEATHER
By Inigo Jones
According to the tWo main cycles December should
give good rains. According to the shorter cycle there
should be good rains in the middle of the month, but
Christmas should be clear. Under the longer cycle it could
rain earlier and then be very hot, then cooler, with some
light showers at Christmas.
Generally the December forecast shows heavy rains
over the tropical areas, good rains around the coasts, but
easing off in the Bight, and good late rains in south-west
West Australia. Light rains are forecast in Central Aus-
tralia, southern Darling and western Murray, the Mallee,
northern South Australia, Tasmania, and the central West-
ralian coast.


A SELF CONTAINED
SANITARY SYSTEM
FOR YOUR HOME,
FACTORY, HOTEL,
GUESTHOUSE,
PLANTATION,
ETC,
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
Gives you the advantages of sewerage no
twitter where your home may be.
NO GERMS NO ODOURS
NO FLIES
NO
EMPTYING
WATER SUPPLY NECESSARY
YOU can instal it!
Xhe treated sterile sewerage !■
absorbed into the soil.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 22 years.
Write for free illustrated pamphlet.
-DISTRIBUTORS: '
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Q’land), 609 Colonial Mutual
Building, Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Vic.), Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dis-
solVenator Co. (S.A.), 229 a Bundle
St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mc-
Inemey & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray
St., Perth.
TASMANIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator
(Tas.) Pty. Ltd., 450 Collins St.,
Melbourne, or Wm. Crosby & Co.,
119 Collins St., Hobart, also Laun-
ceston.
DARWIN: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrlx
Sales and Services.
NEW ZEALAND: Hygeia Dissol-
venator Co. (N.Z.), Wellesley
Chambers, Lome Street, Auckland.
SINGAPORE: British and Eastern
Ltd., Raffles Place.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
J.A.P. ENGINES
2/S model, H h.p. 4 stroke air-cooled,
£39/17/6.
4/3 model, 2-3 h.p. 4 stroke air-cooled,
£75.
J.A.P. spares stocked.
HARDMAN & HALL,
161 Missenden Road, Newtown,
SYDNEY. LA 3597.
Is Yours on the Wall?
The Bulletin W'ool Type Card
is not a course in wool- or
sheep-classing. If it were ft
would cost a lot more than it
does. Its purpose is to give
sheepowners, students, soldier-
settlers and others who handle
wool and sheep a practical
guide on the identification and
selection of fleeces, all the
way from very fine Merino
(74’s) down to Lincoln-type
(40’s). And with this selec-
tion of samples is a quick in-
dicator for breeding this or
that type 'of fleece by cross-
ing. A continuous stream of
orders proves its value at
7s, 6d. Send now to have the
card for spring and summer
drafting.
-
mi
with the welding kit with a thousand uses. Welds cracks and holes
in car bodies, mudguards, radiators, etc. Repairs motor cycles,
domestic appliances, sheet metal work, etc. It solders and brazes,
too. Many useful articles can be made, such as Station Wagon
Bodies, Radio Chassis, Caravan Bodies, etc. The kit is easy to
operate and it quickly pays for itself in time and money saved.
Works from 6- or 12-volt battery. Call in for free demonstration
of welding, or send now for this complete welding kit, comprising
of a high-grade welding tool,' earth cable, welding goggles, assort-
ment of welding rods, fluxes, electrodes and complete working
instructions.
This welding kit is the only one sold in Australia with a 6-point
guarantee.
V
POINT
GDABANTE
• Pacific Welders are fully guaranteed for two
years.
• After Sales Service. Renewals of welding rods,
electrodes, flux, etc., can be supplied at small
cost.
• Free Technical Service. After purchase, you
may at any time write to us for further in-
structions free.
• Every welder and accessory is tested for
strength and durability.
• Seal of Quality. A seal is attached to every
Pacific Welder guaranteeing that it is the
highest quality.
• Sold under money refund guarantee.
I This complete welding kit, instructions and 6-point guarantee
will be mailed to you tor £B/8/-. Write NOW. Send for your
kit TODAY. POST COUPON NOW.
PACIFIC HOME SUPPLIES,
378 Burnley Street, Richmond, Victoria.
Enclosed is £B/8/-. Please send immediate delivery my Pacific Welding
and six-Point Guarantee. I understand that if I do not wish to keep
the Welding Kit, I can return it to you and have my £B/8,/- refunded
in full.
Please write in BLOCK CAPITALS
NAME
ADDRESS BUI2
i
fl
UtllHllllul JS'
P
SjJLi
iliiili
BY
ROLLS-ROYCE
For top-up or oil change
choose ENERGOL the
*Good Companion ’ of C.O.R
MOTOR SPIRIT at . .
INDEPENDENT
SERVICE STATION
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
(Marketers in Australia for Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
practices that had to some extent
been neglected as a result or the
success of penicillin treatment.
Irrigated Fodder
“Rillhm” • In Victoria, when
irriia M such fodder as rape,
soft 8 turn ins swedes mangolds
ugKWrihe numblr of
watering should not at any
time exceed four of Sin to Tin
ratoSrfatoutSoS' for he
season The aim Stouid be to
make available to the crop suffl-
cient water for vigorous growth
cent water tor vigorous gr
throughout the growing period
ot 10 to 14 weeks. *
hll ®t watering after sowing
should be delayed as long as pos-
sible and at least until the plants
. lave ea Y es 2in. to 3m. long,
irrigatjons can
e f™ nat >°" °f
Li £.1 plants J5 tervals 9 f
te °drtf Tasoti“SSSS
, n . irrigation
' required more
SVa" £ °m
f”, d ” ‘he wetter years the inter-
va [ s l ?> a y be neare [ weeks
i.J r «Sf* 10n , m q![ be . used to de ’
, the maturity of rape. A
*1 wnic i l 18 likely to get past
IlL.i r us f o£ , y condl '
tlons be£ore “ can be ea(en
should be given an irrigation to
keep the plants from wilting
and drying-off too much.
A decision on pre-irrigation
must be made when the final cul-
tivation is done. Soil will only
then be consolidated enough to
carry water # at a rapid rate.
When the competition of pasture
and other crops for water is
being considered it is best to
pre-irrigate only if the soil is dry
and does not hold sufficient
water to last the seedling plants
for three to four weeks.
Water for Stock
“Farmer Bill”; Where the
district average rainfall is less
than 17in. a year a farm of any
size should carry a drought
reserve of at least 5000 cubic
yards of water.
Over dry periods each sheep
drinks an average of lygal. of
water a day, or 546ga1. a year.
As each cubic yard of water is
the equivalent • of 169ga1.,
approximately 2\ cubic yards of
water should be allowed per
sheep per year. Cattle and
horses require 24 to 30 cubic
yards.
The smaller the surface of the
tank the less the loss by evapora-
tion. Better to have two ir
more tanks about 16ft. across
than a young lake which may
lose up to 6ft. of water a year
by evaporation.
A good tank is long and
narrow, cutting across the fall,
not running with it. Areas slop-
ing away from stockyards or
pigsties should be avoided. Hold-
ing capacity of the soil should
be tested by sinking trial shafts
and filling the holes with water.
Provision of at least one silt-
tank ensures the water reaching
the main tank in a clean con-
dition. Shallow, wide drains
make a, slower flow than, deep,
narrow ones. A drain that slopes
gently serves a larger catchment-
area than a steep one. Through
cultivated land or paddocks
where the pasture dries-off in
summer, the drains should be
fortified against scouring. Break-
ing down the rate of flow is one
way, seeding with couch or pas-
palum another.
New Sheep
“R. Ney”; A new breed of
sheep appeared at this year’s
Manawatu Show, says the New
Zealand Wool Board.
Called a Chevlin by its
breeder, R. G. Buckleton, of
Bulls, the sheep is a cross be-
tween Lincoln and Cheviot.
Buckleton’s small flock is the
second N.Z. experiment in
crossing Cheviots and Lincolns.
The first, begun by A. Jury at
Martinborough several years
ago, was a success, but because
of the size of his holding Jury
could not carry on.
Buckleton aims to improve
carpet-wool sheep. The Chevlin
pools the Cheviot’s hardiness,
thrift, good carcass and high
lambing percentage with the
quantity carpet-wool of the
Lincoln. The cross is not dis-
similar from the English Lei-
cester. The flock now numbers
26 two-tooths and 35 hoggets,
and in addition to his breeding-
rams he has 35 ewe lambs.
Scaring Birds
“Schubert”; With their light
weight, shining aluminium disks'
spin and whirl in the slightest
breeze. The tinkling sound they
make, together with the reflec-
tion of strong light, are effective
in scaring off most birds that
damage home gardens.
Aluminium caps to place
over the tops of individual fruits,
or bunches of grapes, like an
umbrella, are on the market in
Great Britain.
Hints for the Farm
“Myrrhee”: To make good
the calcium-deficiency in most
concentrates fed to horses, cattle
and sheep, add to each 1001 b.
of grain or concentrate 31b. of
a mixture of four parts of lime
and 11b. of salt. On country
where no super, has been used
the mineral can be given in a
lick —salt 801 b., lime. 101 b. and
dicalcic phosphate 10lb. In top-
dressed .country a mixture of
80 parts of salt to 20 parts of
lime is sufficient.
“Mr.”: In field-tests at Skip-
ton, Faraday and Rutherglen
(Vic.), Department of Agricul-
ture entomologists found that
4oz. lindane (gamma isomer of
benzene hexachloride) per acre,
applied in autumn, gave com-
plete control of pasture cock-
chafer at a cost of 7s. 6d. per
acre for material and labor.
D.D.T., 21b. per acre, gave satis-
factory results, but its cost (255.
per acre) discouraged its use on
a broad-acre basis. Lindane
may be applied mixed with
super, or used separately as a
dust.
“My”; Poultry nesting-com-
fort embraces seclusion and
quiet, cleanliness, attractive sur-
roundings and ample room for
free movement. Nests should be
simple in design and of suffi-
cient depth to give protection
and seclusion while the birds are
laying. Shallow nests result in
restlessness and fighting among
the layers and encourage vent-
picking, cannibalism and feather-
picking.
“M.”; For summer control
of green-peach and black-cherry
aphis use H.E.P.T., one table-
spoonful in 4gal. water. For
red, brown and black scales on
citrus,, spray in mid-December
with i pint of white-oil emulsion
in 4gal. water. Repeat in mid-
March.
“Myrr”: When oats are dis-
placed by other grains or con-
centrates in horse-feed it isn’t
done on a pound-for-pound
basis. Quantities equivalent to
101 b. of oats are: wheat 81b.,
maize (grain) 81b., linseed-meal
B£lb., barley (grain) B|lb., pol-
lard 91b., brewers’ grains (dry)
13£1b., bran 141 b. A horse should
be given at least four feeds
daily and receive the larger por-
tion of the grain-ration when it
has least time to eat. Always
water before feeding ; after-feed
watering can cause colic and
other digestive disorders.
“Spring Vale”: Tree-cabbage
grows splendidly in cool climates
where rainfall is regular—often
up to eight feet high. Outer
leaves can be broken off and
fed to pigs. It’s a useful crop
•on limited areas where pigs are
housed, and require green-feed
in confinement. The crop is
best grown in rows three feet
apart, the plants being later
thinned td the same distance
within the rows.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Public Service
A civil servant is handicapped—bound
hancl-and-foot by Acts and regulations
passed by Parliament for the conducting
of public business, and he must observe
those regulations under pain of dis-
ciplinary action.
I am a postal-clerk dealing directly with
the public over the counter. It’s not my
fault that forms must be filled-in
correctly, nor can I help it if registered
mail must be handled a certain way ; but
I get abuse and “bureaucrat!” if the
customer wants to change things to suit
himself and has to be refused. I have
tried to interpret instructions liberally to
simplify business and keep the public
flowing away from the counter, but the
kick from above is invariably hard and
lasting.
Again, should a complaint come from
anyone whose business I have obligingly
transacted through a relative or neighbor,
the file of explanations and counter-
explanations reaches tremendous proper-
tions before the matter closes with an
admonition to work according to instruc-
tions—and a black mark on my record-
Sheet.
Agreed that the public service is becom-
ing a “parasitic growth.” The reason is
that public servants are permanent. Re-
move that permanency and put the whole
service on a competitive basis for pro-
motion, with no member senior to an-
other, and then watch some of the
efficient young fello /vs throw out the in-
efficient old boys whd have gained their
authority purely by seniority. •
There are many fine officers who will
always be just that because, by seniority
alone, less efficient men are stagnating in
the top, policy-making positions. The
whole organisation stagnates with them
and because of them.—V. J. H. (N.S.W.).
Butter and Margarine
Margarine is already well-established
on world-markets as a competitor of
butter. Nutritionally it is practically
equivalent, but its considerable price-
advantage has not been enough as yet
to overcome the traditional preference
completely.
The price-advantage stems from the
use of cheap native labor in producing
major ingredients of margarine; and New
Guinea produces considerable quantities
of coconut-oil for the Australian market
from Australian-managed plantations,
How these managers can be regarded as
Australian primary producers (B.
4/11 / ’53) in terms of White Australia
“Did they only go in for this modernist stuff?”
ideas is not crystal-clear, but the notion
has possibilities. Thus, Australians on
Fijian plantations should have claimed
immunity from sugar tariffs, and a
judicious leavening of Australian works-
managers in the U.K. should have toppled
our secondary industries.
Queensland Labor Government has
lifted the quotas for table-margarine
manufacture from less than 1000 to over
6000 tons annually. Butter-producers are
thus brought into direct competition with
native labor on lower standards, and an
industry which developed, and still main-
tains, large areas of Queensland seem-
ingly is being thrown to the wolves.
Competition from margarine based on
vegetable-oils of Australian production
could not be objected to by the dairy-
industry, but use of those materials would
remove the present price-advantage of
margarine, such is the Australian price-
structure.
Many of the cost factors in butter-
production are wholly out of the farmers’
hands, and it is not increased efficiency
so much as. a general price-level re-
orientation that would bring butter costs
nearer those of margarine, while remain-
ing at profitable levels for white workers.
Even then there would remain the basic
conflict between our living-standards and
those of New Guinea natives, and unless
the native standards are raised, the home
industry would have to be protected by
trade-barriers, to avoid a lowering of Aus- #
traiian standards.
The position is further complicated by
the arrival of butter, first among Aus-
tralian primary products, at the point
where cost of production equals world-
market prices; and so control of pro-
duction similar to that imposed on the
sugar-industry will become necessary
should production-costs continue to rise,
and it is decided to subsidise export quotas
for the sake of maintaining intact a large
primary industry.
Change from a butter-economy to pro-
duction of whole-milk and milk products
is being strongly put forward, but present
effective demand for these already is filled,
and the main avenue seems to lie in trying
actually to increase home milk-consump-
tion. A complete swing to crop-husbandry
does not appear feasible, even if it were
technically sound. To replace dairy cattle
with beef cattle on a crop-fattening pro-
gramme would be equally involved, re-
quiring, as it would, rearrangement of
techniques and resources, without any
precedent under Australian conditions
as a guide.
If it is felt that butter-farming is indeed
on the way out, then for the sake of the
whole community its departure from the
stage, where it has played so important
a role, must be cushioned. Too rapid a
change could lead to marked social dis-
tress among so wide a group that the
whole community would inevitably be
adversely affected. —J. L. (F.C.T.).
The Boer War
No student of war can readily accept
the implication that the Boer invasion
of the Cape and Natal was stopped by
British incompetence and blundering
(B. 28/10/’53). The three sieges that
grounded most of the Boer army in the
first five months of the war were the
keystone of British strategy in the first,
defensive, phase (see The Official History,
The Milner Letters and The Times
History).
In the second phase Lord Roberts’s
force of 50,000 made short work of the
Boers’ hopes and plans.
The third and last phase was un-
foreseen. At the De Aar conference the
Boers accepted defeat and the British
terms. They had gambled and lost, and,
after all, the British were not so bad.
But Kruger had called for volunteers
from the Cape Dutch, and, inevitably,
he had got some. The Boers asked for
an amnesty for these men so that they
could return to their homes on the same
terms that the Transvaalers could return
to theirs. Lord, Milner refused, saying
they were traitors. His intention to
punish was clear. Kitchener supported
the amnesty, but without avail.
The Boers were not base enough to
ride home in peace leaving their Cape
comrades to Milner’s vengeance, so they
“ There'll be an extra charge of ten shillings if you want a mattress ."
took to the veldt again in new, efficient
commandos reorganised by Smuts and
Botha. Their plan was to make British
rale unworkable, and they had some
success.
The unforeseen situation called for
250,000 mounted infantry. This force
took a year tp recruit, train and ship
to South Africa, together with 1,000,000
horses. It finished the war in about nine
months. At Vereeniging, peace was con-
cluded on Kitchener’s personal assurance
that the Cape Dutch volunteers could go
home in safety.
The last two years of the Boer War
were made necessary by an ambitious
civil-servant who knew more of the
technicalities of administration than he
did of human nature. He was acclaimed
“A great proconsul.” The army was
blamed for blundering.—S. McC.
(N.S.W.).
Deferred Pay 7
Twenty-one years ago deferred-pay for
servicemen ranged between Is, 9d, and
2s. 6d. a day. It is still the same.
Assuming the pre-1948 serviceman was
quick to promotion, spending only mini-
mum regulation-time in each rank, he
would collect approximately £6OO after
12-years’ service. In 1932 that would buy
a house—now it won’t buy the furniture.
The Federal Government equalised
service pay and levelled it with civilian
rates, but deferred-pay was forgotten.
Servicemen have no redress where pay
is concerned. They are open to every
whim of a Government. They are on
duty 24 hours a day in a seven-day week,
being paid set wages. No overtime, no
danger-money, no wet-weather money.
They work in fair weather and foul. A
lift in deferred-pay is overdue. — Giris
(Vic . } . _____
The Last Cavalry Charge
It’s amazing that anyone should argue
about the last cavalry charge in history.
Which could it be save that of the
British Yeomanry and Australian Light
Horse against the Turks entrenched
before Beersheba in 1918? It was against
all the rales of war, but it came off by
reason of a simple fact.
The Turks opened fire on the advanc-
ing cavalry at a range of some 500 yards
and emptied many a saddle. Then the
great mass of horsemen galloped into a
zone where few men were hit. The
Turkish soldiers were too excited to
think of lowering their rifle-sights, and
so they were shooting high. This fact
was revealed when rifles in the trenches
were examined later.
As a result, our horsemen weren’t
stopped and Beersheba was taken. One
shudders to think what would have hap-
pened if the Turkish officers had ordered
their men to put their sights down to
zero • and to wait until the charging
cavalry were within 50yds. before laying
down a cross-fire. —Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Libraries or Roads?
Many municipal councils have spent
a big swag of ratepayers’ /.money on
elaborate lending-libraries and their up-
keep. Ratepayers have the use of these
libraries, of course, but the provision of
light reading is a very dubious municipal
function, particularly when roads in the
same municipalities are sadly neglected,
footpaths non-existent and other legiti-
mate municipal services in need of atten-
tion.
Consider Fairfield (N.S.W.) munici-
pality as an example. It has a library-
building which cost several thousands,
plus thousands more to stock it, plus an
annual upkeep running into four figures.
Only a small percentage of ratepayers
use the library, but they all use the roads,
which are in a shocking state. There
are miles of streets without proper foot-
paths, and miles more without kerb and
guttering. Disgruntled ratepayers would
far rather see their money spent on
roads and footpaths, leaving library-
service to private-enterprise.—W. P. T.
(N.S.W.).
Waste Land
Within railway-fences in Victoria
there must be thousands of acres of
good land which could be turned to
production. Some of Victoria’s railways
run through £lOO-an-acre land and men
are paid to burn-off the, grass in hot
weather.
Railwaymen might have some explana-
tion, but it seems silly not to lease such
land as can be used and fire-proofed
by cultivation.—s GR (Vic.).
Modem Capitalism
Capitalism really is democratic. It
may not always have been. Last cen-
tury ownership of the means of produc-
tion and distribution was in the hands of
a few wealthy people, and there were
extreme inequalities of income and
wealth.
Today it’s different. In every capitalist
country ownership is now dispersed
through hundreds of thousands of share-
holders. In Australia, according to the
Victorian Institute of Public Affairs, of
the 3,500,000 people engaged in industry
500,000 own shares in public companies
and participate in profits. Many more
share in company profits through their
savings invested in insurance policies
and superannuation funds. And the
population as a whole has a high standard
of living.
A capitalism which once judged suc-
cess purely on the earnings of profit now
has to measure up to the test of success-
ful relations with employees and public
and the performance of national duty.
Under capitalism today the instru-
ments of production are owned by thous-
ands and operated for the benefit of mil-
lions and everyone is better off. —X. X.
(S.A.).


third and also the second bail
which were pleasing. Spotless
they were, but Dora saw in them
only three clean bails, and the
shining chromium of new
milking-machines. “They’ll cut
down the work, Bertie,” she said.
Bertie’s face fell. “Don’t you
think it’s clean?” he asked.
“Oh, yes,” she said uncaringly.
There was faint dismay in her
neighbor’s face. “Got a nice
place here,” she said with faint
envy.
“Like it, eh?” said Bertie, and
he began rubbing his hands.
When they passed the house.
Miss Amnig put her upturned
nose into the hallway. Then she
trod the two steps, stood in the
hall and peered into the kitchen.
When she stepped back her eyes
were filled with horror. She
stood on the top step, her arms
akimbo and indignation per-
sonified.
“Don't you tell me, Bertie
Curtis,” she said, “that you live
in all that mess.”
“Mess!” said Bertie indig-
nantly.
“I’ve a good mind” said
Miss Amnig. With that she be-
gan shooing the fowls from the
hallway, after which she ad-
vanced on the kitchen, followed
by a dismayed Bertie.
“Go on,” she told him, “get
that stuff into the barn.”
“Now don’t you go getting
those bags mixed up,” said
Bertie, alarmed. “I won’t know
what returns I’m getting from
the chooks.”
“Chooks!” said Miss Amnig
in disgust. “Chooks. I like
that!”
A QUARTER of an hour later
the profits of the pigs were
also mixed, and the cats had fled
to the barn. Bertie was lighting
a match, igniting ancient
history in the form of years-old
newspapers. He should have
been furious, but as the flames
leapt from the paper, so did an
intense delight flourish within,
and along with it a fear also, fear
of liberty curtailed, if not wholly
abolished.
Finally, when the house was
swept and garnished, and the
seven devils of loneliness, the
cats and the fowls cleaned from
it, Dora stood on the back-steps
and brushed her hands. She
glared warningly at Bertie.
“Don’t you ever let me catch
you with the place like that
again,” she said.
Bertie was looking at her and
thinking. With her Ted Kissop
would never catch him on the
hop. Better a smart woman than
many indolent prayers to the
Almighty.
“I was going to show you the
orchard,” he said mildly.
“Ah, yes,” said Dora with
faint enthusiasm.
Before they even reached the
orchard Dora became aware of
the birds fluttering and cooing
above the enormous apple-tree
which centred the orchard.
Coming closer they could see
them more clearly. White
pigeons, and every one of them
fantails. Dora stared at them in
amazement.
“White fantails!” she said.
She looked at them with
unfeigned delight, her small nose
upturned in pleasure. Her look
of motherly indignation had
departed. She was the Amnig
girl again. “Gee, they’re lovely,
Bertie,” she said.
“And Harry Crowther won’t
be able to buy none, either,” said
Bertie triumphantly. “I bought
the lot. Every white fantail in
Coolbucca I got.”
“Bertie! ” said Dora in amaze-
ment. Then the color began to
seep upwards from the neckline
of her dress.
“Bertie Curtis!” she said the
second time.
But Bertie said nothing. Then
Dora caught sight of the pigeon-
cote. “Where did you get that?”
she asked.
“Made it,” said Bertie, pleased
at the question.
“.ou did?” she said unbeliev-
ingly. A light was dawning in
her eyes.
Bertie nodded. Dora shook
her head wonderingly. “I
reckon that’s real good,” she said
admiringly.
Then she stiffened. “They’ll
dirty all the apples when they
come on,” she said with slight
indignation. “You can’t leave
that there.”
“That’s right,” agreed Bertie,
bewildered. “You’re right, Dora.
Where’ll we put it?”
Dora scarcely seemed to notice
the change from the personal
singular to the very personal
plural.
“We’d better put it right over
in the comer there, farthest from
the house, Bert,” she said.
“So we better,” said Bert
admiringly, already taking it for
granted.
Conserving Rainwater
If every household conserved
the rainwater now wasted off its
roof (B. 25/11 /’53) the country
would be spared a huge expense
in reservoir-construction.
Bush people do it because
they must. The homestead in
which I grew up was only a
modest affair and the rainfall
only 22in., but the roof-catch
sufficed to fill a couple of
4000 gal. tanks, even in the 1914
drought,' when only llin. fell.
In a footnote in his book
Sailing Alone Around the World
Captain Joshua Slocum says:
“The Bishop of Melbourne
(commend me to his teachings!)
refused to set aside a day of
prayer for pain, recommending
people to husband water when
the rainy season was on.” There’s
a lot of sound sense in Slocum’s
book, and that particular bit of
wisdom still holds good today.—
Bogaduck (S.A.).
Socialism
Many who see in Socialism
the solution to our economic
problems forget that most of
those problems are the result of
Socialist experiments.
Those things which have in-
jured our economy —arbitrary
wage, short hours, paid holidays,
sick-leave without the formality
of being sick, penalty-rates, etc.
—all ' spring directly from
socialisation by a too-lengthy
session of Labor Administra-
tions.—S. K. (N.S.W.).
Holiday in Tasmania
F. Cutler (B. 25/11/’53)
should set about his holidays in
a different way. Why not try the
great ocean-going liners? The
fares are much lower than rail-
or air-fares. His £45 could give
him an excellent holiday lasting
about 16 days in Tasmania, for
instance. That would include
all expenses and leave him a
little to play with.
Here is a possible itinerary :
Sydney to Hobart on an “apple-
boat” (say, Orion), and stay in
Hobart for six days at an excel-
lent boarding-house, making
half-day and day trips to places
of interest. Then service-bus to
Launceston, with accommoda-
tion as before, and then steamer
to Melbourne, seeing the ex-
quisite scenery on the Tamar.
Finally, rail- or air-travel from
Melbourne to Sydney.
While in Hobart he could in-
clude a bus trip to Queenstown
to take in the unforgettable
scenery on the way.
I did this trip this year with-
out stinting myself and spent
£4l. — Harrovian (N.S.W.).
New States
Advocates of new States
(B. 18/11/’53) should note what
has happened since the last
carving-up of Europe after
World War I.
Europe has never since been
free from trouble. Every new
frontier has been a nuisance to
everybody living near it. Every
new set of governors, military
leaders and politicians has
added to national antagonisms
that have helped keep European
peace strained to the limit,
Every one of the new army of
masters took the field packed
with new and ambitious ideas,
every one of them boosting the
new national pride and increas-
ing the Jealousies of next-door
neighbors.
New Australian States could
"Isn't it comforting , copper , to know y' got
someone STRONG to depend on?"
be almost as bad, for the ambi-
tions of people who bubble-up
and become political or muni-
cipal leaders will know no
bounds.
The more borders there are
created the more problems there
are bound to arise. Even with
our seven sets of Governments
and their bureaucrats the game
of “pull-devil-pull-tailor” keeps
the land in turmoil.
What Australia lacks is not
new States but new, better and
more up-to-date transport and
communications to provide every
habited part of the land with
quick transport to and from
more ports. This should be a
maritime nation, but its develop-
ment is obstructed by the neglect
of port-facilities, which should
be established wherever a port
is possible. The* too-general
practice of bringing everything
into Sydney, to be distributed
hundreds of miles in all direc-
tions by road- or rail-transport *
the most expensive and cost-
increasing method possible—is
incredibly shortsighted,
By a process of slow evolu-
tion they did all these things far
better in the old world. After
all, the great Port of London,
with its population of over eight
million, is not a sovereign
State, but is run by a county
council. There are many here
who think Australia would be
better off with fewer sovereign
States and more county councils.
—Shellback (N.S.W.).
German States
The local-government system
in Germany (B. 21/10/’53) be-
fore World War I was as effec-
tive as it is today. It was pro-
vided by the State Governments
and the municipalities that func-
tioned within their boundaries.
Decentralisation of administra-
tion was further assured by
various federal functions being
performed by State officials.
Division of Germany into 25
States, some very small, did not
hamper the country’s economic
development—by 1914 it was the
leading industrial country on
the Continent. It was also by
far the strongest military Power.
Culturally, the many princely
courts were of great value. They
assured a wide decentralisation
of patronage of art, letters and
science. Several of them figure
conspicuously in the history of
music. One small State bred
one of the greatest of Royal
houses, the Coburgs, who gave
dynasties to several European
countries, including the United
Kingdom. Some of these minor
German principalities could
hardly be termed “petty” in the
European sense of the term,
Bavaria (29,501 square miles) is
as large as Belgium and Holland
combined,
Germany did not get a centra-
Jised Government with the aboil-
tion of monarchial institutions
after World War I. The Weimar
Republic was federal. More-
over, most of the existing States
were retained. The Bonn Re-
public of today has reverted to
the federal form. It has 22
member-States, although it
covers only part of the former
empire.— Castlereagh(N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 255
Across
I—He1 —He stops a beauty! (6)
4 —Marine creature’s boy needs
stratagems. (8)
B—Doris the Mighty mentioned in
a popular song about the Irish.
(5, 3)
11 — Mohair makes one leave an
artist with a groan. (6)
12 — Always poetical. (3)
13— Altared pair make the dreamer
coil up. (7, 6)
14 — Volume in the direction of
Yours Truly, or the inscription
on any present I give myself.
(4)
16 —Janitress. (9)
20— Young animal with one ran back
to my West Indian fighting
force. (5, 4)
21— Continent truism backwards. (4)
24 —You’re mad where the answer
comes from. (3, 2,4, 4)
27 — Sails no ship, and is to fall sick.
(3)
28 — Minced oval. (6)
29 — Pacific personality and I talk
maliciously. (8)
30— A cultivator he will shorten for
a debauchee. (8)
31 —Why approve the Spanish south
bumpkins? (6)
Down
1 — Think of the gear it swallowed.
(8)
2 A property of the choleric when
he is in liquor. (5)
3 Munro is one with a supple-
mentary clause. (5)
4 —Thoroughfare. (3)
5 Went mighty fast to the coppers
when bought from captors. (8)
6 Cork attendants’ pauses. (9)
7 He shuts up a hunter of those
who get around with flappers.
(6)
9—Flier hides the rent. (4)
10 —American State. (7)
15 —He roasts horse-meat for
Aorangi. (5, 4)
17— Shots out of this arrived with
the Abyssinian vizier. (7)
18 — Henry stands over the bird
measure. (4-4)
19 — Fish vessels like Noah’s places to
escape the finer of the motorists.
(3, 5)
22 — This is crook, for Germany lacks
many. (6)
23 — Six against the French port of
the New Hebrides. (4)
25—A sickness in the heart of my
girl. (5)
26—Evade a deceitful trick. (5)
29—Billy drops by when crook. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 254


CONQUER
with
THE CONSTRUCTION
Raising the height of the Hume Dam, on
the Murray River, near Albury, N.S.W.,
to increase by 50% the present water
storage. The cub. yd. LIMA shovel
seen here is working in a granite quarry
and is being operated by the Public
Works Dept, of N.S.W. ft is loading
200,000 cub. yds. of large rocks, which
are dumped into a barge and then
placed on the face of the earth wall of
the dam. The rocks then form a blanket,
which stops the waves from eroding
the wall and helps to stabilise the bank
when the water level drops rapidly.
Quarry work is tough and only a
tough machine like LIMA can maintain
continuous output.
THE CONQUEST
Thousands of acres of semi-barren land
along the banks of the Murray River
have been reclaimed by irrigation and
brought into useful production, such as
the vineyards of Mildura, Vic., and
citrus orchards of Renmark, S.A. Only
continuous supplies of water allow
these crops to flourish, but Nature pro-
vides only intermittent supplies unless
assisted by dams like the mighty Hume.
Throughout Australia, LIMA is helping
on these conquests of Nature so that
Australians may know a fuller and
happier life.
■
m
ip
m
mwh
Wm
m
m
*9*
m&-\
vmx !
pm
Wm
m
m
■
m
■m
-
m
’
;
HM
L
*
m
kvpiw
m
*
M
wm
fife
&
o
-
SHOVELS, CRANES
ILINES
ALL LIMA EQUIPMENT
is expressly designed and manufactured to cope
with the heaviest, hardest and largest-scale earth-
moving tasks and similar difficult work in the most
adverse types of terrain.
The sales and service of all LIMA equipment are
controlled by Hastings Diesels Limited, who are
bringing these machines to Australia to play a
vital part in our huge national development
projects.
i
COMPLETE SERVICE AND SPARES ORGANISATION
HASTINGS DIESELS LIMITED
EARTHMOVING EQUIPMENT
Hastings Deering Building, William Street, Sydney
Phone: M 0412 (33 lines)
m
•• m
mm
m
m
I
WM
m
■
m.
r:
■S
mm
• • ■
t i • • ••
